



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume LV 



1903 



philadelphia: ' 3 [ 



The academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1903-1904 




I 



SS 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philaijklphia, 



February 5, 1904. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Pkoceedixos for 1903 have been 

 mailed as follows: 



Paces 1- 32... 

 38- 80... 

 81-128.. 

 " 129-160.. 

 " 161-208.. 

 " 209-256.. 

 " 257-336.. 

 " 337-352. 

 " 353-400. 

 " 401-528.. 

 " 529-576.. 

 " 577-624.. 

 " 625-640.. 

 '• 641-688.. 

 " 689-704.. 

 " 705-752.. 

 '■ 753-784.. 

 " 785-816. 



nailed .\pril 

 " Mav 



" May 



" May 



" Juno 



" June 



" July 



" JiUy 



" August 



" September 4 



" September 29 



" October 6 



" November 10 



" November 25 



" December 4 



" December 16 



" January 15 



" February 1 



EDWAED J. NOLAN, 



liecordinq Secretary. 



1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1903. 

 1904. 

 1904. 



COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 



Henky Skinner, M.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D.. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Wither Stone, 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D., 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M,D., ex-officio. 

 Editor: Edward J. Nolan. M.D. 






CONTENTS. 



For Announcetnents, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



An^derson, 3[alcolm p., and Joseph Grixnell. Birds of the 

 Siskiyou Mountains, California : a Problem in Distribu- 

 tion, 4 



Banks, Nathax, A List of Ai-achnida from Hayti, -with De- 

 scriptions of New Species (Plate XAO 340 



BiLGRAM. Hugo. Inclusions in Quartz, 700 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. The A'ariations of Eutauiia in the 



Pacific Subregion , 286 



Texas Reptiles and Their Faunal Relations 54,3 



Calvert, P. P., Ph.D. Ganglia of Odonata, 760 



Casey, Thomas L. Notes on the Conrad Collection of A'icksburg 



Fossils, with Descriptions of New Species, 261 



Chamberlain, Ralph V, iMjTiopods from Beulah, New ^lexico, 35 



New Lithobii from CaHfornia and Oregon, 152 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. On a Collection of Anthropoids, . 710 

 CocKERELL. T. D. A. Bccs of the Genus Nomada from Califor- 

 nia 559 



North Arnej'ican Bees of the Genus Nomads, 580 



Variations in the Snail-Genus Ashmunella, 615 



CoNKLiN, Edwin G., Ph.D. The Cause of Inverse Symmetry, . 753 

 Crawley, Howard. List of l^oh'cystid Gregarines of the LTnited 



States (Plates I, II, III), 41 



Nosema geophili, sp. n.. a Myxosporidian Parasite of Geophi- 



lus. 337 



The Polj'c^'stid Gregarines of the United States(Plate XXX), 632 

 EiGENMANN, Carl H., and Clarence Haafilton Kennedy. On 

 a Collection of Irishes from Paraguay, with a Synopsis 



of the American Genera of Cichlids, 497 



Fielde, AdeleM. Supplementary Notes on an -Am, . . . . 491 



Experiments with Ants Induced to Swim 617 



i 




II 



Fowler, Henry W. Descriptions of Several Fishes from Zanzi- 

 bar Island, Two of which are New (Plates VI, VII, 

 VIII), . 161 



Life Colors of Poecilia limantouri and Description of a New 



Heros from Mexico, 320 



Description of a New Gurnard from Florida, with Notes on 



the Colors of some other Florida Fishes, 328 



Notes on a Few Fishes from the Mosquito Coast of Nicaragua 346 



Descriptions of New, Little Known and Typical Atherinidse 



(Plates XLI-XLIV), 727 



New and Little Known ]\Iugilidse and Sphyraenidse (Plates 



XLV-XLVI), 74.3 



Description of a New Lantern Fish, 7n4 



Frazer, Persifor, D. es-Sc. History of the Caribbean Islands 



from a Petrographic Point of View (Abstract), . . . 396 

 Harshberger, John W. The Mutation of Hibiscus moscheutos, 326 



The Form and Structure of the Mycodomatia of Myrica 



cerifera (Plates XVI, XVII), ' 352 



Keeley, Frank J. Preparation of Diatoms, 2 



Inclusions in Quartz, 700 



Monks, Sarah P. Regeneration of the Body of a Starfish, . . 35 

 Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr., Ph.D. Studies of the Habits of 

 Spiders, particularly those of the Elating Period 

 (Plates IV, V), \ . . . 59 



On the Morphology of the Rotatorian Family Flosculariidse 



(Plates XVIII, XIX, XX, XXI), . . \ 363 



Supplementary Notes on Spiders of the Genera Lycosa, 

 Pardosa, Pirata and Dolomedes from the Northeastern 



United States tPlate XXIX), 645 



Moore, J. Percy. Polychreta from the Coastal Slope of Japan 

 and from Kamchatka and Bering Sea (Plates XXIII, 

 XXIV, XXV, XXVI, XXVII), '". 401 



Descriptions of Two New Species of Polychseta from Wood's 



Hole, Massachusetts (Plate XL), 720 



Some Pelagic Polychseta New to the Wood's Hole Faima 



(Plate LV), ' 793 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., D.Sc. Mollusca of Western Arkansas and 

 adjacent States, \\'ith a Revision of Paravitrea (Plates 

 IX, X, XI), 193 



Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, No. VIII 

 (Plat- XIV), 




Ill 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., D.Sc. A New Japanese Pleurotomaria 



(Plate XXII), 496 



A New American Genus of Arionidse (Plate XX VIII), . . 626 

 Mexican Land and Freshwater Mollusks (Plates XLMI- 



LIV), 761 



A New Hawaiian Liimiffia, 790 



Rehn, James A. G. A Revision of the ( rthopterous Genus 



Homoeogamia, 177 



Studies in American Forficulida?, 299 



Studies in Old World iMantidse (Orthoptera), 701 



Rehn, James A. G., and T. D. A. Cockerell. A New Genus of 



Stenopelmatinse (Orthoptera) from Mexico, .... 630 

 Skinner, Henry, M.D. A New' Species of Nyctalenion (Plate 



XIII), 298 



vStone, Witmer. a Collection of Reptiles and Batrachians from 



Arkansas, Indian Territory and Western Texas, . . . 538 

 Racial Variation in Plants and Animals, with Special Refer- 

 ence to the Molets of Philadelphia and Vicinity (Plates 



XXXI-XXXIX), 656 



Stone, Witmer, and James A. G. Rehn. On the Terrestrial 

 ^"ertebrates of Portions of Southern New Mexico and 



Western Texas, 16 



True, Frederick W. A Note on the Common Bottle-nosed Por- 

 poise of the North Atlantic, Tursiops truncatus (Mon- 

 tagu), 313 



Vanatta, E. G. a List of Shells Collected in AVestern Ilorida 



and Horn Island, Mississippi, 756 



Wheeler, William Morton. A Revision of the North Ameri- 

 can Ants of the Genus Leptothorax Mayr (Plate XH), 215 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1903. 



January 6. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwix Broti-x, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present . 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve dm-ing the ensuing year : 



On Libr.ary. — Dr. C. N. Peirce, Thomas A. Robinson, Henry C. 

 Chapman, M.D., Charles Schaeffer, M.D., and George "\"aux, Jr. 



On Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Witmer Stone, and Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Benjamin Smith Lyman, Thomas 

 H. Montgomery, Ph.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris, and 

 Phihp P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



On Finance. — Isaac J. Wistar, WilUam Sellers, John Cadwaladcr, 

 Edwin S. Dixon, and the Treasurer. 



Council's Committee on By-Laws. — Isaac J. Wistar, Theodore D. 

 Rand, Arthur Erwin Brown, and Thomas H. Fenton, M.D. 



The President is, ex-officio, a member of all Standing Committees. 



Mr. George Vaux, Jr., was appointed the Solicitor of the Academy. 




proceedings of the academy of [jan., 



January 13. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 

 The death of Bushrod W. James, M.D., a member, was announced. 



January 20. 



Mr. Arthur Erwhn Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for pubhcation : 

 "Myriapoda from Beulah, N. M.," by Ralph V. Chamberlain. 

 "List of the Polycestid Gregarines of the United States," by 

 Howard Crawley. 



Preparation of Diatoms. — ]\Ir. Frank J.Keeley called attention to a 

 method recently employed in studjdng the structure of diatoms, which 

 is supplementary to those previously described by him :— 



Mounting broken valves on edge so as to obtain a sectional view, and 

 mounting in a manner that permitted of successively immersing the 

 forms in media of varying refraction indices. 



The present method consists in depositing on the diatoms a thin film 

 of silver, using the solution ordinarily employed for silvering mirrors, 

 which, if dropped on the cover-glass containing the diatoms, \nll silver 

 the latter to a considerable extent before any appreciable quantity of the 

 metal is deposited on the glass. The finer the irregularities on the sur- 

 face the heavier will be the deposit of silver, and the best results are 

 obtained on gatherings containing broken and corroded forms, sepa- 

 rated plates, etc., the structure of which becomes quite apparent. 

 Thus conclusions can be drawn as to the correct nature of a complete 

 and perfect valve which will be more accurate than when it is itself 

 examined, particularly if the markings are fine, when they become 

 filled with silver. 



Under favorable conditions, after mounting in balsam and examining 

 by transmitted light, valves or portions of them may be found having 

 the appearance of plates of perforated metal, and while the results so 

 far have principally been corroborative of those obtained by previous 

 methods, some features not distinguishable under ordinary conditions 

 are rendered apparent, among which may be mentioned a ring of pro- 

 cesses near the margin of the valve of Coscinodiscus suhtilis, which 

 extends toward the interior of the frustule. 



The character of the raphe is particularly well displayed in Naincula 

 and its aUies, as well as the small channels in the central and terminal 

 nodules, which doubtless have some function in connection with the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



protoplasmic currents causing the motion of diatoms. In Navicula 

 rhomboides it becomes apparent that the raphe is single as in other 

 species of this genus, and that the double raphe, based on which this 

 form has been placed in a separate genus, is an optical illusion. 



This process differs from that by which the late A. Y. Moore plated 

 diatoms, as his were covered with a heavy layer of silver or gold and 

 examined as opaque objects. It is rather a staining process, but like- 

 wise differs from the methods of Moore and others in this direction, 

 which filled the cavities in the valves with opaque matter, while in this 

 case the silica itself is rendered opaciue, or nearly so. 



As in all microscopical investigation, it is necessary to use judgment 

 in interpreting appearances seen, as they will vary materially in the 

 same species, depending on whether the entire structure is preserved. 

 Isthmia affords an excellent example. Some valves may be found in 

 which the coarse markings appear as holes in the blackened sihca, 

 showing that the secondary structure is entirely gone. Others will 

 show the secondary structure in a similar manner as holes in a darkened 

 plate, but still others will have the large oval markings entirely covered 

 with a film of silver, indicating that there is a still finer and ordinarily 

 invisible "tertiary structure" or plate, which serves as a basis on which 

 the silver is deposited. Exactly the same conditions may be noted on 

 the external plate of Coscinodiscus astei'omphalus , but there is never an 

 indication that the eye-spots on the inner plate are anything but clear 

 openings. 



January 27. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



The following were elected members : James Spear, Henry A. Lang, 

 and Edw. B. Meigs. 



William Morton Wheeler, of Austin, Tex., and Theodore Boveri, of 

 Wiirzburg, were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



BIRDS OF THE SISKIYOU MOUNTAINS, CALIFORNIA: 

 A PROBLEM IN DISTRIBUTION. 



BY MALCOLM P. ANDERSON AND JOSEPH GRINNELL. 



The birds of the following list were taken or observed by Malcolm P. 

 Anderson in the extreme northwestern part of California, between Sep- 

 tember 6, 1901. and 'Slarch 10, 1902. His field-notes form the basis of 

 the present paper, while Joseph Grinnell is responsible for the critical 

 remarks on specimens and distribution. 



The region explored occupies the northwestern corner of Siskiyou 

 county, close to the Oregon boundary. Most of the observations per- 

 tain to the region of Horse and Seiad creeks, which head in the Siskiyou 

 range. Horse creek flows into the Klamath river from the north about 

 four miles below the old mining camp called Oak Bar, and about nine 

 miles above the mouth of Scott river. Seiad creek joins the Klamath 

 near Seiad Post Office, which is eleven miles below Scott river, and 

 therefore twenty miles from Horse creek. Although these two streams 

 empty so far apart they head near together, there being but one ridge 

 between the main branch of each. 



Oak Bar is at an approximate altitude of 2,800 feet, while the crest of 

 the Siskiyou jNIountains, some seventeen miles north of the Klamath 

 river, is 7,000 feet in elevation. The highest points of the range in the 

 neighborhood of Horse creek approach 8,000 feet. West of Seiad creek 

 the country changes abruptly, becoming far rougher, with the peaks 

 in some instances rising higher. Near the mouths of both Horse and 

 Seiad creeks the canyons expand into valle5^s, which are occupied bj^ a 

 few farmer-miners. The valley of Seiad creek is much the larger and is 

 known as Seiad Valley. After the first of November camp was made 

 about ten miles up Horse creek, at a little farm called Grater's ranch. 



The region under consideration is covered with an open forest ex- 

 tending from the Klamath up to within a few hundred feet of the 

 summit of the range. Here the trees become scattering and in places 

 give way to large stretches of chaparral, with here and there mead- 

 ows in which grass grows waist high unless disturbed by cattle. 



The Life Zones represented in the region seem to be: Transition, which 

 extends from the Klamath up to about the 6.000-foot contour line, and 

 Canadian, which caps the range, with perhaps dilute Hudsonian in 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



places. The following trees identified will give a better idea of the con- 

 ditions among which the birds were found : 



Trees of the Transition Zone. 



Pseudotsuga mucronata. Douglas Spruce. 



This is the most conspicuous tree of the region. On Horse creek it 

 is found from the Klamath up to an altitude of 5,500 to 6,000 feet. 



Libocedrus decurrens. Incense Cedar. 



This was also a very common tree from the Klamath up to al)out 

 5,000 feet. 



Pinus lambertiana. Sugar Pine. 



This is the largest tree of the region, and is common along the smn- 

 mits of White Cloud and Johnny O'Neil ridges from the Klamath up. 

 It is most abundant and of greatest size in the basin of Salt creek 

 about a mile from Grater's. Not observed above 4,500 feet. 



Pinus ponderosa. Yellow Pine. 



Seen from the Klamath up to about 4,000 feet; frequently of large 

 size. 



Pinus atlenuata. Scrub Pine. 



This tree grows commonly in the upper part of Seiad Valley, and was 

 noticed along Seiad creek up to 4,000 feet. 



Quercus calif ornicus. Black Oak. 



Though there are several species of oaks in the region, the only one 

 that is very conspicuous is the California black oak. It is found from 

 the Klamath to an elevation of about 4,000 feet. In several places it 

 forms groves of considerable size to the exclusion of coniferous trees. 



Arbutus menziesi. Madrone. 



Seen frequently among the oaks up to their limit. 



Alnv^sp.l 

 A species of alder grows along all the streams. 



Acer macrophyllum. Big Leaf Maple. 



Observed along streams, but limits not noted. 



Trees of the Canadian Zone. 



Abies magnifica shastensis. Shasta Fir. 



This tree mixes with the following in the upper edge of Transition, 

 and extends throughout the Canadian zone. 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Abies concdlor lowiana. 



A fir probably referable to this form is found in the lower portion of 

 Canadian and higher Transition, where it occurs in company with the 

 Douglas spruce. In the canyon of Horse creek it was seen down to an 

 altitude of 3,100 feet. 



Pinus monticola. Mountain Pine. 



This tree is frequent in the Canadian zone, to which it seems 

 restricted. 



HuDsoxiAx Zone. 



Tsuga mertensiana. Black Alpine Hemlock. 



Hemlocks grow in abimdance near the head of the east fork of Horse 

 creek and elsewhere along the range in cool places. During a tramp 

 along the crest this tree was seen repeatedly. 



Notes ox the Birds of the Region. 



Ardea herodias herodias. Great Blue Heron. 



On Januaiy 25 a great blue heron was seen on Seiad creek, about f our 

 miles above the mouth. Again, on IMarch 2, two herons were observed 

 on the Klamath river, between Oak Bar and Walker Post Office. 



Oreortyx pictus plumiferus. Mountain Partridge. 



On September l5 a small boy brought in two quail which had been 

 shot near the house on Grater's Ranch. Subsequent^ the species was 

 detected only once : a flock of six or eight were seen in Seaid Valley on 

 December 20. The two September birds were preserved, and in spite 

 of extremely abraded plumage, are plainly referable to plumiferus, and 

 not pictus, as one might expect. One of the specimens is adult and 

 shows a few new feathers appearing on the scapulars, breast and sides, 

 but there is no evidence of approach toward the brown-necked humid 

 coast form. This is an interesting example of the westward extension 

 of a Sierra Nevadan form. 



Bonasa umbellas sabinei. Oregon RnflFed Grouse. 



The people of the Siskiyou state that this bird is invariably seen on 

 the ground or on fallen logs. The observations of the past winter go to 

 confirm this, for all the grouse seen were upon the ground or flying near 

 it, and in all cases were in groves of small Douglas spruce, such as 

 grow near or in the canyon bottoms. There is another grouse known to 

 the inhabitants of this region. This bird is said to be found mainly in 

 trees and is doubtless the sooty grouse {Dendragapus obscurus fuligi- 

 nosus). In the latter part of February and early in March, the drum- 

 ming of what was thought to be this latter species was heard, but not 

 even a glimpse was obtained of the performer. Four specimens of the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



Oregon ruffed grouse were preserved, and the species may be considered 

 fairly common through the winter in this region. This bird has been 

 found previously inCaUfornia only in the redwood forests in the\icinity 

 of Humboldt Bay, so that the present record extends its known range 

 considerably to the eastward. Douglas, in the original description of 

 his "Tetrao Sabini," gives its range as "from Cape Mendocino" north, 

 etc. But recent records, up to the present, indicate ordinarily a dense 

 forest habitat . 

 Buteo borealis calurus. Western Red-tailed Hawk. 



An immature male red-tail was shot on October 1 1 on the very sum- 

 mit of the Siskiyou, where the Oregon trail crosses. 

 Falco sparverius phalaena. Western Sparrow Hawk. 



One was observed on March 2 between Oak Bar and Walker on the 

 lOamath. 

 Ceryle alcyon. Belted Kin^sher. 



A single individual was observed flying up Horse creek on January 16. 



Dryobates villosus harrisi. Harris Woodpecker. 



This bird is very common in the groves of black oak which are 

 located here and there on the lower parts of the Siskiyou range. It is 

 also found in the coniferous forests, though in smaller numbers. From 

 October 24 to February 15 fifteen specimens were taken. These are 

 variously intermediate in coloration between hyloscopus and harrisi, 

 but average nearest the latter. Five of the birds have all the white 

 areas strongly suffused with smoke-gray or brown, nearly but not quite 

 as deeply as in specimens from western Oregon and Washington. Four 

 have all the areas practically pure white, while the other six are fairly 

 intermediate between these two types. The whole fifteen present an 

 uninterrupted series, from the whitest to the dingiest. The usual size 

 of all the specimens, however, is that of horrisi; that is, decidedly 

 larger than the white-breasted hyloscopus, which occupies nearly the 

 whole of California in favorable localities outside of the extreme nortli- 

 ern humid coast belt. 

 Dryobates pubescens gairdneri. Gairdner Woodpecker. 



The Gairdner woodpecker is usually to be found in company witii 

 the flocks of mountain chickadees which frequent the black oak groATS 

 all winter. The oaks are their favorite working places, but they are 

 also to be seen among the pines and spruces. The six specimens 

 brought home are all quite near gairdneri. The smokiness of the lower 

 surface is not so intense as in skins from western Oregon, but the size, 

 especially of the feet, is decidedly that of the iiortlnvest coast form. 




8 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Gairdneri occurs in California only in the extreme northwestern corner 

 of the State, the greater portion west of the Sierras being occupied by 

 D. p. turati. (See Fisher, Condor, IV, May, 1902, 68.) 



Xenopicus albolarvatus. White-headed Woodpecker. 



Only three birds of this species were seen in the Siskiyou region. 

 All were sliot from sugar pines in the neighborhood of Salt creek. They 

 were obtained on October 10, January 10 and February 19, respectively. 

 These specimens are exactly like the small-billed Sierra Nevadan birds. 

 The known range of the species is thus materially extended, and here 

 seems to be its westernmost station. 



Sphyrapicus varius ruber. Red-breasted Sapsucker. 



This woodpecker was not infrequently seen along Horse and Seiad 

 creeks, mostly in the spruce forest at about 3,200 feet elevation. While 

 not the extreme manifestation of rnber, the four specimens secured, by 

 their large size and dark coloration, easily belong under this head. The 

 white markings of wings and tail are much more restricted than in the 

 Sierra Nevadan daggetti. 



Sphyrapicus thyroideus. Williamson Sapsucker. 



A single individual was found on a ridge above camp on December 19. 

 It was at work in a tall Douglas spruce, and continued tapping lightly 

 until closely approached. This proved to be a female, and is darker 

 colored than Sierran specimens compared with it. The head is 

 browner, while the deeper yellow belly and extreme length of ^ving 

 point toward a geographical variation perhaps parallel to 5. i". ruber. 



Ceophloeus pileatus abieticola. Northern Pileated Woodpecker. 



The pileated woodpecker is one of the most conspicuous birds of the 

 region. Its loud screech-like call can be heard for many hundred yards 

 across the canyons. Though often seen it is very wary and difficult of 

 approach. Its favorite resorts seem to be the black oaks, but occa- 

 sional birds are seen to aUght in coniferous trees. One specimen had 

 the stomach distended with large black ants, which it was gathering 

 from an oak when shot. As shown by the following measurements (in 

 milUmeters), the four specimens procured belong to the large northern 

 race. There appear to be no significant differences between these and 

 skins from the north Atlantic slope. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



Melanerpes torquatus. Lewis Woodpecker. 



The first bird noticed on crossing the Klamath and entering Horse 

 creek canyon was the Lewis woodpecker. The species was then, Sep- 

 tember 6, abundant in oaks bordering the meadows near the month of 

 the creek. On September 13, two specimens were shot from a spruce 

 near Grater's farmhouse. There were a number of others about at the 

 time, but at the report of the gun they made off down the canyon, and 

 nothing w^as afterward seen of the species anywhere in the region. It 

 probably occurs only as a migrant. 



Colaptes cafer saturatior. Northwestern Flicker. 



Flickers were seen in the yellow pine forests on the ridge west of 

 camp all through the fall and early part of winter, but they were so 

 excessively shy that none were secured until January 20. They were 

 always abimdant near the mouth of Seiad creek, in some open meadows 

 lined with oaks, and alders overgrown with wild grapevines. As com- 

 pared with specimens from the \dcinity of Monterey, the type locality 

 of collaris, the three skins from the Siskiyou country show somewhat 

 greater dimensions and also darker colors. This is especially noticeable 

 on the back, which is a decidedly richer brown, the groimd color being 

 deep Prout brown. 



Sayornis saya. Say Phoebe. 



On September 16 a Say phoebe was shot from its perch on the barn at 

 Grater's place. This was the only bird noted, and so is probably repre- 

 sented in the region only as a migrant. 



Cyanocitta stelleri carbonacea. Coast Jay. 



This was the only jay detected in the Siskiyou Mountains, and was 

 by no means as conspicuous as jays often make themselves. Only 

 occasionally was one heard scolding in some cluster of spruces, or dis- 

 covered hopping quietly from limb to hmb in a black oak. Eight skins 

 were obtained during the winter, and all proved to be quite typical of 

 the humid coast race carbonacea (see Fisher, Condor, IV, March, 1902, 

 41). But a female specimen taken at Walker Post Office, Siskiyou 

 county, March 11, 1902, is very different, approximating C. s. frontalis, 

 though not as pale as the average of southern California birds. Walker" 

 is only about twenty miles due east of Seiad \'alley, and about forty- 

 five miles northwest of Mt. Shasta. If this specimen represents the 

 resident race of its locality, it furnishes a veiy interesting example of 

 the possible close invasion of two races toward each other from their 

 original separate centres of differentiation (until the area of intcrgrada- 

 tion may ultimately disappear). 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



Corvas americanas hesperis. California Crow. 



On October 1 a large flock of crows were noted on a meadow near the 

 mouth of Horse creek. Later in October a single individual was seen 

 in a meadow at Grater's. Numbers were observed along the Klamath 

 near Oak Bar toward the middle of March (6th and 11th). 



Nucifraga colambiana. Clarke Nutcracker. 



Two individuals were observed on December 29 on the ridge between 

 Horse and Salt creeks. Mr. Doney, a miner of more than ordinary in- 

 telligence and veracity, stated that this bird is common on the highest 

 parts of the Siskiyou all through the summer. This is another indica- 

 tion of the presence of a Hudsonian zone on these mountains. 



Carpodacus purpureas californicus. California Purple Finch. 



A male specimen was secured on February 1 on the ridge between 

 Horse and Salt creeks. The bird was at the top of a large oak singing 

 loudly. We took the singing as a sign of spring coming, but we had 

 severer weather after that than before. 



Astragalinus psaltria psaltria. Arkansas Goldfinch. 



Soon after reaching Grater's ranch, September 7, these birds were 

 common in a pasture near the house. But within a few days, and 

 before specimens were secured, they took their departure. 



Jance liyemalis hyemalis. Slate-coloredJunco. 



A single male specimen was shot on January 25 from a black oak in 

 the dooryard at Grater's. There were other juncos about at the time, 

 but all seemed to be of the Oregon form. This skin measures, wing 

 78 mm., tail 71. The tips of the dorsal feathers are slightly brownish, 

 but the bird agrees explicitly with selected north-Alaskan and Atlantic 

 coast specimens. This makes about the twenty-second instance of the 

 occurrence of this form in CaUfornia. 



Junco hyemalis oreganus. Oregon Junco. i 

 Junco hyemalis thurberi. Sierra Junco. J 



Juncos seemed to constitute the most common species throughout 

 the Transition of the Siskiyou region. Not a day passed without num- 

 'bers being seen. On and after December 4, when the first snow fell, 

 they became very common about camp, where they worked continu- 

 ally in the old garden. Out of sixteen skins brought home, six are at a 

 glance recognizable as oreganus; they are just hke Seattle and Sitka 

 specimens. Four others are just as typically thurberi when compared 

 with Mt. Wilson skins, while the remaining six are partly immature and 

 are less precisely referable. It might be surmised that the Oregon 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



11 



juncos are winter visitants, while the thurberi type is the resident form, 



but this is pure conjecture. 



Melospiza cinerea merrilli, Merrill SoDg Sparrow. 



Two specimens of this song sparrow were taken on October 30 and 

 December 14 respectively, from a tangle of blackberry briers near camp. 

 These are much paler than morphna and phwa, with decidedly blackish 

 streaks both on back and breast, thus approaching montana closely. 

 It seems probable that it is this form that breeds in the region. 



Melospiza cinerea morphna. Rusty Song Sparrow. 



A bird of this race was taken on November 6 from the tangle of briers 

 in which the Merrill song sparrows were found. Another was taken 

 later from a band of sparrows in Seiad Valley. The first of these (No. 

 78) inclines in paleness of hind neck and back toward merrilli. The 

 other is nearer phcea in having a sooty streaking. But the large size in 

 both cases places them rather in the morphna category. 



Fasserella iliaca unalaschcensis. Shumagin Fox Sparrow. 



On October 9 two fox sparrows were taken from the same thicket 

 mentioned in connection with the foregoing. These seem to be nearest 

 unalaschcensis, though inclining toward mernloides in brownness of 

 coloration. They are too small for insularis. Making due allowance 

 for wear, they are counterparts of summer specimens at hand from 

 Prince William Sound, Alaska, which is about half-way between the 

 metropolis of mendoides (Vakutat Bay) and that of uncdaschccnsis 

 (Aliaska Peninsula). 

 Piranga ludoviciana. Western Tanager. 



A single specimen was shot from a sugar pine on White-Cloud ridge 

 on Septeml^er 12, evidently in migration. 

 Vireo solitarius oassini. Cassin Vireo. 



The only specimen observed was secured Septeml)er V2 from some 

 .alders bordering a small stream on White-Cloud ridge, dou))tless in 

 migration. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Vireo huttoni huttoni. Hutton Vireo. 



Hutton vircos were found frequenting that part of the Transition 

 zone in which oaks are most numerous, but were also often seen 

 feeding in spruces. They remained throughout the winter in uniform 

 numbers. 



There seems to be absolutely no difference between the six Siski- 

 you skins and a series from the Santa Cruz Mountains and vicinity 

 of Monterey, the latter being the type locahty of huttoni. Monterey is 

 in the southern extremity of the humid coast Transition, and there 

 has always seemed a doubt as to the existence of a race obscurus in the 

 northern part of the same belt. S. N. Rhoads, in the Auk, Vol. X, 

 July, 1893, p. 238, clearly pointed out the untenabihty of obscurus, but 

 no one seemed to pay any attention to his remarks. As to the exist- 

 ence of a really distinct form on Vancouver Island (V. h. insularis 

 Rhoads), we have as yet no specimens to indicate it. Looking at 

 Anthony's description of obscurus, we find that he used southern 

 California birds in comparison with his Oregon ones. Some skins 

 now at hand from Pasadena, in moderately worn spring plumage, 

 are not so green dorsally and laterally as birds of the same season 

 from the Santa Cruz district. This is evidently due to the greater 

 rate of fading and abrasion in the arid southern climate, for the 

 majority of specimens in fresh fall plumage are indistinguishable, and 

 equivalent extremes are to be picked out of both series. Sixty speci- 

 mens have been examined in this connection . 

 Dendroica auduboni. Audubon Warbler. 



A male was shot from a small flock on the west side of White-Cloud 

 ridge on September 12. After that none were seen. 



Cinclus mexioanus. American Dipper. 



Fairly common from the Klamath up Horse and Seiad creeks to an 

 altitude of 5,000 feet. Five skins were preserved. 



Troglodytes hiemalis pacificus. Western Winter Wren. 



This proved to be a common bird of the Siskiyou region, where it was 

 almost always to be found in the blackberry tangles along the smaller 

 streams. Seventeen skins secured serve only to emphasize the geo- 

 graphical uniformity of this race in its long north-and-south range. 



Certhia americana zelotes. Sierra Creeper. 



Creepers are comparatively numerous in the region of Horse creek. 

 They were often seen busily searching about the bases of the Douglas 

 spruce or hurriedly climbing spirally up the trunk of some pine or 

 oak. The eleven specimens procured do not seem to differ in the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



least from Sierran birds. Nor do they look much different from 

 Sitkan skins. However, we have no certified examples of occidentalis, 

 which is a supposedly distinct form said to occupy the humid northwest 

 coast belt. 



Sitta carolinensis aculeata. Slender-billed Nuthatch. 



This bird was seen everjn^vhere from the Klamath river to the upper 

 edge of Transition. It seems to lead the mixed flocks of Parus,Regulus, 

 etc., with which it is nearly always seen. Seventeen specimens were 

 obtained. 



Sitta canadensis. Red-breasted Nuthatch. 



The Canada nuthatch was far less conspicuous than the preceding 

 species, though it was probably no less common. It also accompanied 

 the mixed flocks of chickadees and kinglets to some extent, but seemed 

 to prefer the coniferous trees to the oaks which the slender-billed nut- 

 hatch so largely frequents. Previous to December 26 no individuals 

 were seen. The specimen shot on that date was rather high up in 

 Transition, and was, it seems probable, just descending from the Cana- 

 dian zone. For the species was shortly afterward common. 



Parus gambeli. Mountain Chickadee. 



This chickadee was constantly present among both the oaks and 

 coniferous trees throughout Transiton and up into lower Canadian. 

 The fourteen specimens brought home have on an average smaller 

 bills than a series from the mountains of southern CaUfornia (just as 

 with Xenopicus). This is the westernmost record for this species. 



Parus rufescens rufescens. Chestnut-sided Chickadee. 



This bird was almost always found in company with the mountain 

 chickadee, forming mixed roving bands. The series of twenty-one 

 specimens is uniform and quite like birds from Sitka and Oregon. It 

 would be highly important to know whether this si^ecies and the last 

 occur together in summer also, and breed in the same locality. 



Psaltriparus minimus. California Bush tit. 



This was another very common bird in the black oak forests, but 

 occurred in the coniferous woods as well. It was not, however, 

 observed above the limit of Piiius ponderosa. The ten specimens taken 

 present no differences from corresponding plumages of birds from cen- 

 tral and southern California. Nor are there any characters to dis- 

 criminate the few specimens we have from Oregon and Washington 

 from those from California. Judging from the specimens at hand, there 

 is little or no evidence of a race californicus. There is considerable 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



variation in shade of back and pileum due to wear and fading, but the 

 fresh fall birds all look alike. 



Eegulus satrapa olivaceus. Western Golden-crowned Kinglet. 



This bird, when observed at all, was always in the flocks of chick- 

 adees and nuthatches. Seven specimens, all males, were secured 

 during the winter. 



Hylocichla guttata nana. Dwarf Hermit Thrush. 



On December 20 the only small thrush seen was shot from an alder 

 in Seiad Valley. This specimen, on account of its small size and brown 

 coloration, is easily referable to the northern humid coast form nana. 



Mernla mignratoria propinqua. Western Robin. 



Seen occasionally throughout the winter, almost always with the 

 varied thrushes. It ranges from the Klamath river up to the limit of 

 the black oak timber at least. 



Izoreus naevius naevins- Varied Thrush. 



The varied thrush, although seen throughout the winter, was not 

 common until January, when large flocks appeared on the meadows in 

 Seiad Valley. (This valley is almost free from snow). When the 

 snow left the meadow at Grater's during February, numbers of these 

 thrushes appeared there. At the same time they became common in 

 the oak forests. Sixteen specimens were preserved. These average 

 in characters close to the Sitkan form. 



Sialia mexicana occidentalis. Western Bluebird. 



A male bluebird was shot from a small flock on White-Cloud ridge, 

 September 12. After this none were seen until February 9, when a 

 bird appeared near camp. They soon after became common both in the 

 vicinity of Grater's and in Seiad Valley, 



Summary. 



The foregoing list is a remarkable one as showing the association of a 

 number of birds not usually found together. The Siskiyou Mountains 

 are evidently on the narrow line of mergence between the humid coast 

 fauna and the arid Sierran fauna. Representative species of the two 

 areas are here found in about equal numbers, in winter at least, as 

 shown by the following comparative table : 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



15 



In the case of species represented in both areas but by distinct sub- 

 species, sometimes it is the humid form that is present and sometimes 

 the arid form (in a few cases there are intermediates). For instance, 

 we find the typical coast form of Cyanocitta, but the typical arid race of 

 Oreortyx. And in the case of distinct species, as a result of eastward 

 and westward invasion respectively, the ranges of the separate repre- 

 sentatives here overlap ; for example, Parus rufescens and Parus gam- 

 beli. We find that as a rule two faunae (of the same zone) are occupied 

 each by a different subspecies of the same species, or a different species 

 of the same genus; and that a single genus is seldom represented in one 

 fauna by more than one species. (If it is, then it seems to have come 

 through the invasion of one of the congeneric forms from an adjacent 

 fauna, as with the two chickadees just mentioned.) This seems to me a 

 strong argument in favor of the theory that isolation (either by long 

 distance or intervention of barriers) has been an absohitely essential 

 condition to the differentiation of species. A fauna is a certain assem- 

 blage of animals occupying a given uniform area; but the propor- 

 tionate composition in both species and individuals is constantly 

 changing, as influenced by neighboring faunae, as well as endemic 

 factors. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ON THE TERRESTRIAL VERTEBRATES OF PORTIONS OF SOUTHERN NEW 

 MEXICO AND WESTERN TEXAS. 



BY WITMER STONE AND JAMES A. G. REHN. 



In the spring and early summer of 1902, Mr. H. L. Viereck and the 

 junior author spent about eleven weeks in the Sacramento Mountain 

 region of south-central New Mexico. The expedition was undertaken 

 in the interest of the Academy, under the direction of the Board of Ciu-a- 

 tors, and quite extensive collections of plants and insects as well as a 

 fair representation of other groups were secured. 



The locahties visited and represented by specimens in the collections 

 are as follows : 



Ysleta, El Paso county, Tex. Elevation, 3,664 feet. A village along 

 the Rio Grande a short distance below El Paso. April 2d to 4th was 

 spent here, and collecting carried on in the cultivated strip between 

 the river and sand hills ("bosque"), and also in the latter very un- 

 productive section. 



El Paso, Tex. Elevation, 3,713-4,000 feet. Collecting was pursued 

 in the foothills of the Franklin INIountains to the north of the city. 

 March 31st and April 4th to 6th were spent in this \dcinity. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M., and vicinity. Elevation, 4,320 to 

 4,600 feet. This section was quite thoroughly examined, collecting be- 

 ing carried on by both members from April 7 to May 24, and by Mr. 

 Viereck during several days in the earher part of June. Alamogordo is 

 situated in the broad San Augustine plain, two miles from the foothills 

 of the Sacramento range, to which latter almost daily trips were made. 

 The characteristic vegetation of this desert plain is greasewood or creo- 

 sote bush (Larrea) and mesquite (Prosopis), with scattered cactus 

 (Opuntia) and Spanish bayonet (Yucca), the latter becoming more 

 abundant toward the foothills. 



Dr>' Cailon, Otero county, N. M. Elevation about 4,600-5,000 feet. 

 This canon, being easiest of access from Alamogordo, was visited almost 

 daily. The reptiles, insects and plants of this rather circumscribed 

 region were very thoroughly collected. 



Alamo Canon, Otero county, N.M. Elevation about 5,000-5,300 feet. 

 This canon is considerably larger than the foregoing and contains a con- 

 stant stream of pure water. It is located about seven miles southeast 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



of Alamogordo, and collections were made here April 11, 16, and on 

 several other occasions by Mr. Viereck. 



Laliiz Canon, Otero count}^ N. M. Elevation at mouth about 5,000 

 feet. This canon is about the size of Alamo Canon, and contains a 

 ■large stream of discolored alkahne water, locally known as the Laluz 

 river. Laluz Caiion is located seven miles northeast of Alamogordo, 

 and extends a great distance into the range, a portion of it being occu- 

 pied by the railroad which reaches the- upper slopes of the moimtains. 

 Several days were spent here collecting. 



Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. Elevation about 7,000 feet. This 

 locality is about half-way up the Sacramento range, and was visited 

 by Mr. Viereck early in June. 



Cloudcroft, Otero county N. M. Elevation about 9,000 feet. 

 Cloudcroft is located practically on the top of the Sacramentos, and 

 collecting was carried on there by Mr. Viereck during the latter part of 

 May and the early part of Jime. 



While the authors are not prepared to enter into a lengthy disserta- 

 tion on the faunal relations of the localities visited, still the general con- 

 clusions drawn from an examination of the material collected may 

 prove worthy of record. Leaving the Texas localities out of considera- 

 tion, as but little vertebrate material was obtained there, we come first 

 to the immediate vicinity of Alamogordo. This appears to be truly 

 Lower Sonoran (or ^liddle Sonoran, as has been proposed^), the vege 

 tation, the most characteristic species of which have been men- 

 tioned before, as well as the reptiles, mammals, birds and insects, so far 

 as studied, being characteristic of this zone. This fauna and flora seem 

 to extend quite a distance up the bottoms and arroyos (torrent beds) of 

 the caiions, while the slopes of the same and the foothills appear to pos- 

 sess more distinctly Upper Sonoran types, such as the sotol (Dasyli- 

 rion), candle-wood (Fouqueira) and junipers {Juniperus). The pinon 

 (Pinus sp.) does not extend so ar down as the juniper, and makes its 

 appearance only when Lower Sonoran types have totally disappeared 

 from the arroyos. In Dr. C. Hart Merriam's latest faunal map of the 

 United States two tongues of the Lower Sonoran are shown to enter 

 New Mexico from the south, one along the valley of the Rio Grande and 

 the other along the Pecos. From a study of the present material, it 

 would seem that another Lower Sonoran tongue branches off from the 



' Tlie evidence on which this division was made does not appear sufficient. On 

 almost equal grounds we mia;ht divide the Carohnian bcU into at least two por- 

 tions. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Rio Grande tract and runs up between the Organ and the Sacramento 

 ranges, comprising the San Augastine plain. ' 



HighrolLs is situated near the lower border of the Transition 

 zone, and possesses few types in common with Alamogordo, but shares 

 quite a number with Cloudcroft. The latter locahty is situated in 

 heavy Canadian forests, throughout which are interspersed open glades. 

 The fauna and flora of Cloudcroft are pure Canadian, and the surround- 

 ing timberland is one of the most important sources of lumber in the 

 southwest. 



Considerable material other than that collected by the expedition was 

 examined in the preparation of this paper. In such cases full credit is 

 given to the sources from which these specimens were obtained. We are, 

 however, under especial obhgations to Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.. of the 

 United States National Museum; Dr. J. A. Allen, of the American 

 Museum of Natural History, New York, and Dr. C. Hart Merriam, 

 Chief of the Biological Survey, United States Department of Agricul- 

 ture, for the loan of specimens of mammals. 



While concm-ring in the identifications and statements contained in 

 the following pages, the authors would have it understood that Mr. 

 Rehn is responsible for the portion on mammals and Mr. Stone for the 

 birds and reptiles. 



MAMMALS. 

 Sciurus fremonti lychnuchus n. subsp. 



Type: No. 11,105, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences of Philadelphia, d^ 

 Forks of Ruidoso, Lincoln county, N. M. August 18, 1898. Collected 

 by C. M. Barber. 



Related to S. /. neomexicanus Allen, but differing in the larger size, 

 more rufous coloration and in the much more elongate nasals. 



Distribution. — This form is at present represented only by material 

 from the White Mountain region, but probably occurs also in the Cap- 

 itan and Sacramento sections. 



Color. — Above dull ferruginous, strongest on the median section, the 

 color clearer and most intense on the rump, where the usual faint black- 

 ish vermiculations are almost absent. Sides above the lateral line 

 pale rufescent wath an ochraceous tinge; lateral hne narrow, not very 

 distinctly defined and with many ochraceous hairs intermingled. 

 Head washed with blackish, the orbital ring clear white; ears externally 

 ferruginous touched with blackish at the apex, which bears a scant pen- 

 cil. Fore limbs clear rufescent above, the lateral fringe of the feet sil- 

 very white. Hind Umbs dull ferruginous, becoming rufescent on the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



upper surface of the feet. Tail above centrally rich ferruginous, most 

 intense basally, lateral fringe with the basal portion of the hairs black, 

 the apical section pale ochraceous, the black becoming more extensive 

 toward the apex of the tail and forming an almost clear black bar about 

 20 mm. in length, the extreme tip being formed by the pale ochraceous 

 tips of the hair. Lower surface of the tail pale grayish ochraceous, the 

 successive black and ochraceous color divisions being marked as above • 

 toward the apex of the tail a trace of the upper color is noticed suffusing 

 the grayish ochraceous portion. Under surface, including the lips, 

 chin, throat, under surface of the limbs and feet, whitish, pure on the 

 throat, mixed elsewhere with the tint of the pale mouse-colored 

 under fur. 



Skull. — The skull of S. fremonti (ychnuchus difTers from that of S. 

 fremonti neomexicanus in its more elongate form and slender and more 

 attenuate nasals. The skull of lychnuchus is comparatively narrower 

 than that of neomexicanus, and the zygomatic region appears com- 

 pressed. The nasals average 1.7 mm. longer in lychnuchus than in 

 neomexicanus, while they really average narrower in wddth by .2 mm. 



Measurements. — Flesh dimensions of the type: Total length, 350 

 mm.; length of tail, 140; length of hind foot, 55. Average of three 

 specimens (flesh measurements) : Total length, 335 (326-350) ; length of 

 tail, 140; length of hind foot, 53.3 (51-55). Average of seven speci- 

 mens of >S. fremonti neomexicanus:^ Total length, 321 (308-330); length 

 of tail, 133 (127-145) ; length of hind foot, 48.5 (45-52). 



The type skull of lychnuchus measures as follows: Total length, 

 50 mm.; basilar length, 42; greatest zygomatic width, 29; length of 

 nasals, 16; width of nasals, 8.2. The average of six skulls of the new 

 form is : Total length, 49 (48-51) ; basilar length, 40.9 (40-42.2) ; greatest 

 zygomatic width, 27.9 (27-29); length of nasals, 15.7 (15.5-16); width 

 of nasals, 7.4 (7-8.2). Average of four skulls of neomexicanus:'' Total 

 length, 45.9 (43.5-47.3); length of nasals, 14.3 (13.7-15). The two 

 skulls of topotypes of neomexicanus examined by us give the follow- 

 ing measurements : Total length, 46.7 (46.5-47) ; basilar length, 39.7 

 (39-40.5); greatest zygomatic width, 27.7 (27-28.5); length of nasals, 

 14; width of nasals, 7.6 (7.5-7.7). 



Specimens Examined. — Four skins from the type locahty, Rio Rui- 

 doso and Mescalero, all in the White Mountains. One of the skins and 

 three additional skulls were from the collection of the American 

 Museum of Natural History. 



2 Allen, Bull. Amer. Mies. Nat. Hist., X, p. 291. 

 •' Ibid. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Remarks. — While no specimens of neomexicanus in summer pelage 

 are available, the great difference in color, aside from the larger size and 

 distinctive cranial characters, lead to the opinion that a very distinct 

 geographic form of the neomexicanus type is represented in this mate- 

 rial. Two topotypes of the latter form from the collection of the Bio- 

 logical Surve}' were examined in this connection, and also four speci- 

 mens (including the type) of mAjgollonensis from the American Museum 

 collection. No close relationship exists wdth the latter form, which is 

 of a more grizzled and smoky coloration, as well as having the skull 

 rather different in character. 



Eutamias cinereicollis canipes Bailey. 



1902. Eutamias cinereicollis canipes Bailev, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV, p. 



117, June 2, 1902. (Guadalupe Mts., El" Paso county, Tex.) 



The material at hand shows that this form is w^ell distributed over the 

 higher portions of the WTiite Mountains, while information from a reli- 

 able source gives it as occurring at Cloudcroft. Material has been 

 examined from the following localities: Forks of Ruidoso, Rio Ruidoso, 

 Mescalero and Hale's Ranch, Ruidoso. 



Compared with E. cinereicollis, (Allen) this form is readily differenti- 

 ated by the diagnostic characters given by Bailey — the paler and duller 

 ochraceous tints, the white tips to the hair on the upper surface of the 

 tail, and by the grayer feet. One differential character which seems to 

 have been overlooked in the original description is the absence of solid 

 black in the lateral dorsal stripes. In all the specimens (7) examined 

 these are mixed blackish and rusty, while in cinereicollis the centers 

 at least are solid black. 



Eutamias quadrivittatus (Say). 



1823. Sciurus quadrivittatus Say, Long's Expedition to Rocky Mts., II, 

 p. 45. (At the exit of the Arkansas river from the foothills, Colorado.) 



One specimen from Canoncita, above Cleveland, Mora county, N. M., 

 collected by Emerson Atkins, and submitted by Prof. Cockerell, is in- 

 distinguishable from specimens from Boulder, Colo. 



Citellus spilosoma arens (Bailey). 



1902. Spermophilus spilosoma arens Bailev. Proc. Biol. vSoc. Wash., XV, p. 



118, June 2, 1902. (El Paso, Tex.) 



Three specimens of this form from the vicinity of Alamogordo, Otero 

 county, N. M., are identical with a series from El Paso and Fort Han- 

 cock, Tex. A young specimen from Mesilla, X. M., is clearly referable 

 to this form. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Citellus marginatus (Bailey). 



1902. Spermophilus spilosoma niarginatus Bailev, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 

 XV, p. lis, June 2, 1902. (Alpine, Brewster county, Tex.) 



Two specimens from Pecos, Tex., and vicinity of Alamogordo, Otero 

 county, N. M., agree perfectly with the description of this form. The 

 inference ch'awn from the occurrence of marginatus in communities 

 with arens is that they represent distinct species, the coloration being 

 typical as well as the proportions. The length of the hind feet appears 

 to be an excellent diagnostic character. 



Citellus mexicanus parvidens (Mearns). 



1896. Spermophilus viexicanus parvidens Mearns, Preliminan^ Diagnoses of 

 New Mammals from the Mexican Border of the United States, p. 1, 

 March 25, 1896. (Fort Clark, Kinney county, Tex.) 



Three specimens of this form are included in the series examined, ail 

 being from Pecos, Tex. Two of the specimens are the property of the 

 Academy, the other belonging to the American Museum. Compared 

 with topotypes the Pecos specimens are seen to be identical, and are 

 easily separated from Brownsville specimens, which latter appear to 

 represent true mexicanus. 



Citellus grammurus (Say). 



1823. S[ciurus] grammurus Say, Long's Exped. Rocky Mts., II, p. 72. (Ar- 

 kansas river, at its exit from the foothills, Colorado.) 



.\ specimen from Rio Ruidoso, Lincoln county, appears to represent 

 the typical form. 



Citellus tridecemlineatus pallidus (Allen) ? 



1877. [Spermophilus tridecemlineatus'] var. pallidus, Allen, Monogr. N. Amer. 

 Rodentia, p. 872, August, 1877. (Plains of the lower Yellowstone river.) 



A specimen of the thirteen-lined spermophile from Agua P>ia Park, 

 Colfax county, X. M., collected by Emerson Atkins, was subniitted by 

 Prof. Cockerell. While by no means true pallidus, still it appears to be 

 closer related to this than to any other form. The condition of the 

 specimen is quite unsatisfactory for conclusive comparison. 

 Cynomys arizonensis Mearns. 



1890. Cynomys arizonensis Mearns, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., II, p. 305, 

 February 21 ,1890. (Point of mountain, near Wilcox, Ariz.) 



An adult male of this species from the San Augustine plain (or Tula- 

 rosa Valley), near Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M., appears to be abso- 

 lutely identical with the Arizona form. On comparison the skull is 

 found to be identical with representatives of arizonensis from San Luis 

 Springs, Mexican boundary, determined by Mearns. The length of 

 head and body considerably exceeds the maximum given in the orig- 

 inal description. 



This individual was from a small colony of about thirty holes. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Onychomys arcticeps Rhoads. 



1898. Onychomys arcticeps Rhoads, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. p. 194. May 

 3, 1898. (Clapham, Union county, N. M.) 



A series of eight specimens from the vicinity of Alamogordo, Otero 

 coimty, N. M., appear to be much closer related to arcticeps than to tor- 

 ridus arenicola Mearns from near El Paso, Tex. The ears are consid- 

 erably blacker than in t. arenicola, and the facial markings are more 

 distinct, while the tail is much shorter. 

 Onychomys ruidosae n. subsp. 



Type: No. 11,091, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences of Philadelphia. ?. 

 Ruidoso, Lincoln county, N. M. September 19, 1898. Collected by 

 C. M. Barber. 



Apparently related to 0. melanophrys, but differing in its more red- 

 dish coloration, darker head and ears, and in the narrower inter- 

 pterygoid fossa. 



Distribution. — Specimens from Hale's Ptanch in the White Moun- 

 tain region, have also been examined. 



Color. — Above dull ferruginous, becoming almost clear rufous on 

 the rump ; head and nape blackish-gray washed with ferruginous ; ears 

 blackish-gray beset with fine silvery-white hairs, which are most abun- 

 dant toward the apex ; chin pale grayish-pink. Under surface, includ- 

 ing fore and hind limbs (except posterior surface of hind legs), duU 

 white, the under fur pkmibeous. Tail rather thinly haired, with the 

 upper surface mixed brown and white. 



Skull. — The skull of ruidosce closely resembles that of melanophrys, 

 but differs in the broader rostrum and nasals, the more truncate occipi- 

 tal region, the narrower interpterygoid fossa and in the stouter and 

 heavier condylar process of the mandible. 



Measurements. — Flesh dimensions of type: Total length, 156 mm.; 

 length of tail, 47; length of hind foot, 22. 



Remarks. — While closely related to the melanophrys group, ruidosm is 

 a very distinct species. Relationship exists with fuliginosus Merriam 

 and torridus Coues, but the former is immediately separated by the slen- 

 derer skull and weaker incisors, beside the narrower rostrum and nasals 

 as well as the smaller auditory bullae. From torridus it is easily differ- 

 entiated by the deeper coloration, the grayer head and the more indefi- 

 nite lateral line, as well as the much greater size. 



Peromyscus texanus sonoriensis (Le Conte). 



1853. Hesperornys sonoriensis Le Conte. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 413. 

 (Santa Cruz, Sonora.) 



Three specimens from the vicinity of Alamogordo, Otero county. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



N. M., appear indistinguishable from specimens of sonoriensis collected 



by the Mexican Bomidary Survey. 



Peromyscus truei (Shufeldt). 



1885. Hesperomys truei Shufeldt, Proc. U. S. National Museum. VIII, p. 407, 

 September 14, 1885. (Fort Wingate, N. M.) 



Six specimens from Hale's Ranch, Ruidoso, Lincoln county, N. M., 

 appear identical with a topotype from the collection of the U. S. Na- 

 tional Museum. An apparently immature specimen from Las Vegas, 

 collected by Emerson Atkins, and submitted by Prof. Cockerell, appears 

 to be referable to this form. 



Peromyscus tornillo Mearns. 



1896. Peromyscus tornillo Mearns, Preliminary Diagnoses of New Mammals 

 from the Mexican Border of the United States, p. 3, March 25, 1896. 

 (Near El Paso, Tex.) 



Specimens from Mesilla, Donna Ana county, and Clapham, Union 

 county, N. M., are sHghtly darker than the type of tornillo, though appa- 

 rently referable to the same form. 



Peromyscus rufinus (Merriam). 



1890. Hesperomys leucopus rufinus Merriam, North American Fauna, No. 3, 

 p. 65, September 11, 1890. (San Francisco Mountain, Ariz.) 



Six specimens examined from Forks of Ruidoso, Lincoln county, and 



Mescalero, Otero county, N. M. 



Sigmodon hispidus berlandieri (Baird). 



1855. Sigmodon berlandieri Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philu., MI, p. 333. 

 (Rio Nazas, Coahuila, Mex.) 



Two specimens examined from Mesilla, Donna Ana county, N. M., 



and Pecos, Reeves county, Tex. 



Neotoma micropus canescens Allen. 



1891. Neotoma micropus canescens Allen, Bull. Amcr. ]\Ius. Nat. Hist., Ill, 

 p. 285, June 30, 1891 . (North Beaver creek. Panhandle of Oklahoma.) 



A specimen from Pecos, Reeves county, Tex., differs considerably 



from a Brownsville, Tex,, specimen, and agrees with a specimen from 



Fort Hancock, Tex., in the much paler coloration. 



Neotoma mexicana Baird. 



1855. Neotoma mexicana Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila.. \U. p. 333. 

 (Mountains near Chihuahua, Mex.) 

 Seven specimens examined from the following localities: Ruidoso, 

 Forks of Ruidoso and Hale's Ranch, Lincoln county, and Mescalero, 

 Otero county, N. M. 



Cratogeomys castanops (Baird). 



1852 Pseudostoma castanops Baird, Rep. Stansbury's Exped. Great Salt 

 Lake, p. 313, June, 1852. (Near Las -\nimas, Colo.) 

 Three specimens examined from Pecos, Reeves county, Tex. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Thomomys fulvus (Wood house). 



1852. Geoinys fulvus Woodhouse, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VI, p. 201. 

 (San Francisco Mountain, Ariz.) 



Specimens of this form have been examined from Hale's Ranch, Lin- 

 cohi county, and Las Vegas, San Miguel county, N. M., the latter col- 

 lected by Emerson Atkins and submitted by. Prof. Cockerell. One 

 specimen from the latter localit}' is uniform plumbeous, except the feet 

 and mouth, which are white. 



Thomomys fossor Allen. 



1893. Thomomys fossor Allen, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., V, p. 51, April 28 , 

 1893. (Florida, La Plata county, Colo.) 



One specimen of this species from Agua Fria Park, Colfax county, 

 N. M., collected by Emerson Atkins, was submitted by Prof. Cockerell. 

 It agrees with the type except for the more hirsute tail. 



Dipodomys merriami ambiguus (Merriam). 



1890. Dipodomys ambiguus Merriam, North American Fauna, No. 4, p. 42, 

 October 8, 1890. (El Paso, Tex.) 



A fine series of sixteen specimens of this form was collected in the 

 vicinity of Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M., and a single specimen 

 was also examined from Pecos, Reeves county, Tex. A considerable 

 range of variation is presented in the series, some specimens appearing 

 quite graj'ish in comparison to the usual pale buffy coloration. 



Dipodomys spectabilis Merriam. 



1890. Dipodomys spectabilis Merriam, North .\merican Fauna, No. 4, p. 46. 

 October 8, 1890. (Dos Cabezos, Ariz.) 



A specimen of this form from vicinity of Alamogordo, Otero county, 

 N. M., probably not quite mature, differs from topotypes from the 

 Biological Survey collection in the slightly smaller size and more gray- 

 ish coloration. 



Perodipus ordii (Woodhouse). 



1853. Dipodomxjs ordii Woodhouse, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., ^'I, p. 235. 

 (El Paso, Tex.) 



A specimen of this species was examined from Pecos, Reeves county, 

 Tex. 



Perognathus flavus Balrd. 



1855. Perognathus flavus Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VII, p. 332. 

 (El Paso, Tex.) 



Six specimens of this form from the vicinity of Alamogordo, Otero 

 county, N. M., were examined. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Perognathus penicillatus eremicus (Mearns). 



1898. Perognathus {Chartodipus) eremicus Mearns, Bull ^mor ihi« Xat 

 Hist., X, p. 300, August 31, 1898. (Fort Hancock, Tex.) 



Two specimens of this race were collected in the vicinity of Alanio- 

 gordo, Otero county, N. ISl. 



Perognathus hispidus paradoxus (Merriam). 



LSNfl. Peroguathus paradoxus Merriam. North American Fauna Xo 1 p '^4 

 October 25, 1889. (Banner, Kan.) ' • i • - ■ 



Two specimens of this form were examined, one from Mesilla, Donna 

 Ana county, and the other from Rio Gallinas, Las Vegas, San Miguel 

 county, N. ]\I., collected by Emerson Atkins and submitted In- Prof. 

 Cockerell. 



Perognathus intermedius Merriam. 



1889. Po-05r«a//!i/.s'zn/er7??fc?w.s Merriam, North American Fauna. \o. 1 p IS 

 October 25, 1889. (Mud Spring, Ariz.) 



The collection of the Academy contains a male from ^fcsilla, Donna 

 Ana county, N. ^I. 



Lepus arizonae minor Meam*. 



1S9G. Lepus arizonw minor Mearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVni, p. 557, 

 June 24, 1896. (El Paso, Tex.) 



Two specimens from Pecos, Reeves county, Tex., are referable to this 

 form". 



Lepus texianus griseus Mearns. 



1896. Lepus texianus griseus Mearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. ^lus.. X\TII, p. 562, 

 June 24, 1896. (Fort Hancock, Tex.) 



An immature specimen from the vicinity of Alamogordo. Otero 

 county, N. M., appears to belong here, but it is not developed enough 

 for positive identification. 



Putorius (Lutreolat vison (Schreber). 



1778. Mustela vison Schreber, Siiugthiere, III, p. 463. (Eastern ("anada.) 



A skin of a mink collected at Las Vegas, San Miguel county, X. -M., by 

 Marshall Robbins, was submitted by Prof. Cockerell. In the absence of 

 the skull and strictly comparable material, the exact relationshiji to the 

 various geographic races cannot be ascertained. 



Myotis evotis (H. Allen). 



1864. Vespertilio evotis H. Allen, Monogr. Bats N. .Amer., p. 4S, June, 1864. 

 (Monterey,-Cal.) 



Two specimens of this species have been examined, one from Sapello 

 Canon, Las Vegas range, San Miguel county, N. M., taken at an alti- 

 tude of 10,000 feet; the other from Dry Canon, Sacramento Moun- 

 tains, Otero county, X. ^L 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Nyctinomus mexicanus (Saussure). 



1860. M[olossus] mexicanus Saussure, Re\'Xie et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XII, p. 283. (Plateau and higher mountains of Central Mexico, — Cofre 

 de Perote (13,000 feet), Ameca and foot of Popocatepetl (8,500 feet) 

 specified. 



The name mexicanus is used provisionally for the Nijctinomus of cen- 

 tral and western Texas and southern New Mexico. Further study may 

 show that it is not identical with the central Mexican form, but as far as 

 can be judged by Saussure's measurements, closer relationship exists 

 with mexicanus than with cynocephalus. The latter form is a smaller 

 animal, the average length of the forearm in five specimens from Tarpon 

 Springs, Fla., being 40.1 mm., while five specimens from New Mexico 

 and Texas average 42.7 mm. True hrasiliensis is, of course, a quite 

 different animal. Specimens have been examined from ]Mesilla, Donna 

 Ana county, N, M.; Pecos, Reeves county; Helotes, Bexar county, and 

 San Diego, Duval county, Tex. 



BIRDS. 



The birds obtained number 122 specimens, representing thirty-one 

 species, while ten others are added to the list which were seen but not 

 secured. These latter are marked with an asterisk. 



Under each species are given Mr. Rehn's field-notes relative to its 

 distribution, abundance, etc. 



*Querquedula discors (Linn.). 



"One observed in alkah stream, Laluz Canon, April 18." 

 *Callipepla squamata (Vig.). 



'' Several observed near the mouth of Dry Caiion, ]\Iay 2 and 9.' ' 

 Zenaidura macroura (Linn.). 



''Observed frequently April 16 to May 19. In the open country it 

 was most frequent about cultivated tracts, and in the cafions could 

 almost always be looked for in the vicinity of water." 



♦Catliartes aura (Linn. ) ? 



" Seen on four occasions, April 18-29. ' ' 



Dryobates scalaris bairdi (Malh.). 



"Found frequently in Dry Canon. It was comparatively wild, and 

 showed a decided preference for a peculiar species of cactus." 



Chordeiles acutipennis texensis (Lawr.). 



"Found several times in the Larrea belt, and was apparently nesting 

 between the grease wood and mesquite bushes. All those seen were 

 flushed from the ground, but careful search failed to reveal the eggs. 

 May 2 to May 17." 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



♦Aeronautes melanoleacus (Baird). 



"Rather numerous in Dry Cailon. April 22 to May 20; usually 

 noticed in the morning." 



Trochilus alexandri Bourc. and Muls. 



"Several times noticed in Dry Canon, April 17 to May 19, and one 

 female secured. A nest obtained was built upon a small bush growing 

 horizontally from the perpendicular side of a small canon, about ten 

 feet from the bottom." 



♦Tyrannus verticalis Say? 



" Several birds apparently of this species were observed May 1 to 2, 

 but were very wild and apparently migrants; as none were seen later." 



Myiarchus cineracens (Lawr.). 



" Observed almost continuously, April 18 to May 17, everj'where in 

 the cailons and sometimes in the Larrea as well. Its favorite perch was 

 the top of a spidery cactus or the head of a yucca." 



Sayornis saya (Bonap.). 

 "April 22 to May 19. Rather numerous in the caiions, near water." 



*Corvus corax sinuatus (Wagl.). 



"Several observed each morning, April 12 to 17, and again May 15. 

 feeen also at Ysleta, Tex., April 4." 



Corvus cryptoleucus Couch. 



"One shot April 25, a mile and a half north of Alamogordo. It was 

 feeding on the carcass of a cow." 



Icterus parisorum Bonap. 



" April 17 to May 16. Fairly numerous near the arroyos about 

 the mouth of the canons and in the lower foothills, and very shy." 



♦Scolecopliagus cyanocephalus (Wagl.). 



' ' Several noticed in the town of Alamogordo, April 25 and May 22." 



Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis (Say). 



" Rather numerous through April, but not so common in May. Most 

 frequent near the spring in Dry Canon, where they could be seen at 

 . almost any time drinking from the film of water that trickled down the 

 side of the canon." 



Astragalinus psaltria (Say). 



" Seen with the preceding, April 7 to May 17." All the specimens are 

 molting and, contrary to the custom in the Eastern A . tristis, the flight 

 feathers are being renewed at the prenuptial molt. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Zonotrichia leucophrys (Forst.). 



"Found both in the canon and on the plain in the T.arrea belt, always 

 in small flocks, April 7 to April 29, and several on May 1." 



Some of the males (one-year-old birds?) are in the prennptial molt 

 and are acquiring the black and white feathers of the crown. Other 

 highly phmiaged individuals, probably old birds, show no signs of molt. 

 Spizella breweri Cass. 



"One secured April 15, and a number seen the next day in the 

 Larrea." 

 Spizella atrigularis (Cab.). 



One secm-ed in Dry Caiion, May 17. This capture extends the range 

 of the species some distance eastward, the Hachita Mountains being 

 the previous limit of its distribution, so far as I can find in the records. 

 Amphispiza bilineata deserticola Ridgw. 



"By far the most abundant and characteristic bird of the region, both 

 on the plain and in the canons. Observed continuously, April 7 to May 

 21. A nest with three eggs was found May 14, which was possibly a 

 second clutch, as a fledgling was secured some da3's before." 

 Aimophila ruficeps scottii (Senn.). 



"Seen several times ih the caiions, April 11 to May 17." 



Pipilo fuscus mesoleucus (Baird). 



" Noticed only in the canons and on the lower foothills, April 8 to 

 22." 

 Oreospiza chlorura (Aud.). 



" Associated with the preceding. April 8 to 29." 

 Calamospiza melanocorys Stejn. 



A number seen May 1 in the cafion. One male secured had nearly 

 finished the molt, including the tertials, but not the rest of the flight 

 feathers. 

 Firanga hepatica Swaius. 



A male obtained in the foothills, May 8. 

 ♦Petrochelidon lunifrons (Say). 



"Several observed May 19." 

 Hirando erythrogastra Bodd. 



"Observed several times, April 18, May 20 and 22." 

 ♦Tachycineta thalassina (Swains.). 



"April 7 to May 20; usually seen toward evening." 

 *Laiiius ludoviciamis excubitorides (Swains.). 



"Observed at Ysleta, Tex., April 2, and at Alamogordo, May 22." 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Dendroioa auduboni (Towns.). 



One secured April IS, Laluz Canon. 

 Helminthophila virginiae (Baird). 



One shot in Diy Caiion, April 29. 

 Wilsonia pusilla pileolata (Pall.). 



Two obtained in Dry Caiion, April 24 and 29. 

 Mimus polyglottos leucopterus (Vig.). 



"Abundant about the mouth of the caiion. May 8-21." 

 Toxostoma crissalis Henry. 



"Very retiring in habits and always frec[uenting the mouth of the 

 caiion, April 7 to May 16." 



Heleodytes brunneicapillus couesi Mearns. 



" Noticed in the foothills in small flocks, April 9." 



The specimen secured seems to be unquestionably this form, although 

 two from Pecos in the Academy's collection approach anthonyi some- 

 what in the broadening of the marks on the back. 

 Salpinctes obsoletus (Say). 



"Noticed continuously, April 7 to May 21, in the canons only." 



Thryomanes bewickii leucogaster (Baird). 

 Two secured in Dry Canon, April 25 and ^lay 6. 



Catherpes mexicanus conspersus Ridgw. 



"Found in the deeper parts of the canon, where the junipers begin 

 and the grease wood stops, April 8 to May 17." 



The wear on the plumage of the back of these birds causes a striking 

 difference in their appearance. First the white borders to the spots are 

 lost and then the spots themselves, leaving the back almost uniform 

 and very different in appearance from the perfect postnuptial plumage. 



Auriparus flaviceps (Sunder.). 



"Noticed several times in the canon, April IS and Mav 9." A nest 

 and set of eggs were secured. 



Polioptila caerulea obscura Ridgw. 



" Found almost entirely in the canon, April 24 to May 13." 



REPTILES. 



Sixteen species of reptiles were obtained, many of them represented 

 by good series of specimens. These are about equally divided between 

 forms which range over the central Lower Sonoran area of Texas and 

 those whicli are characteristic of the desert region of Arizona to the 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



westward, the valleys of southern New Mexico being respectively the 

 western and eastern limit of range of the two groups. 



Of the species which, according to Cope, range over the first plateau 

 region of Texas (Lower Sonoran) may be mentioned : 



Sceloporus torquatus poinsetti, Holbrookia texana, 



?Sceloporus consobrinus, Salvador a grahamice, 



Anota modesta, Crotalus adamanteus atrox, 



Phrynosoma cornutum, Crotalus confluentus. 



The species of the more western desert region are : 



Cnemidophorus tessellatus, Crotaphytes wislizenii, 



?Cnemidophorus gularis, Uta stansburyiana, 



Sceloporus clarkii, Pityophis sayi bellona. 

 Crotaphytes c. baileyi, 



Of course, the distribution of some of these species has not been 

 worked out in sufficient detail to warrant positive statements as to their 

 range, while a number of recorded locahties are so obviously erroneous 

 that we are forced to attribute them to confusion of labels, an accident 

 which could easily happen in the early days of collecting. However, 

 the geographic relationship of the species contained in the present col- 

 lection would seem to be about as above. 



To add to the value of the following list we have added notes on the 

 species contained in a valuable collection from Pecos, Tex., recently 

 presented to the Academy by Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown. This region 

 being very similar in its faunal relations to the vicinity of Alamogordo, 

 the comparison of the f aunse is of much interest. 



Crotaphytes collaris baileyi (Stejn.). 



Two specimens secured in Dry Canon, May 10 and 13. Dr. Stejneger has 

 divided the old C. collaris into two very closely related forms, C. baileyi 

 of the western deserts and true C. collaris of the eastern region (Texas). 

 In Prof. Cope's paper on the geographic position of Texas, he describes 

 this species as ranging over what we now know as the Lower Sonoran 

 area of that State, while according to Dr. Merriam C. baileyi in the west- 

 ern deserts is an Upper Sonoran form. It would be interesting to know 

 the exact zonal relationship of the specimens described by Prof. Cope 

 from western Texas and New Mexico, where he states that both forms 

 occur together and exhibit all stages of intergradation,so far as arrange- 

 ment of scales is concerned {Crocodilians, Lizards and Snakes of North 

 America). A series of eleven specimens in Mr. A. E. Brown's collection 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



from Pecos represents both forms, so that at least C. baileyi must be 

 regarded as a subspecies. 

 Crotaphytes wislizenii B. and G. 



One obtained on the plain, May 6. This species is regarded by Dr. 

 Merriam as tji^ical of the Lower Sonoran, but also ranging a certain 

 distance into the Upper Sonoran belt. It has been obtained in the 

 vicinity of Pecos, Tex., but not farther east. 

 Uta stansburyana B. and G. 



A large number secured in the country about Alamogordo show con- 

 siderable variation in color, but the relationship of the species and its 

 possible races is too involved for present consideration. 

 Holbrookia texana Troschel. 



Tliis species was common in Dry Canon. It is a characteristic form 

 of the Lower Sonoran of central Texas, and has been obtained by Prof. 

 Cope as far west as Lake Valley, N. M., which seems to mark the west- 

 ern hmit of its range. Mr. Brown's Pecos collection contains several of 

 this species. 



Sceloporus torquatus poinsettii B. and G. 



One adult, May 10. 



This is a common species in central Texas, and has been recorded by 

 Cope from southeastern Arizona. Even if the locahties on these speci- 

 mens are correct, it would seem to be decidedly an eastern species. 



Mr. Brown obtained one from the vicinity of Pecos, Tex. 

 Sceloporus clarkii B. and G. 



One young individual secured near Alamogordo, ^lay 24. 



This form is closely related to *S. magister, but according to Dr. Stej- 

 neger is restricted to southeastern Arizona (Upper Sonoran), while the 

 latter is characteristic of the Lower Sonoran deserts north to Utah and 

 Nevada. This specimen represents the farthest point east at which the 

 species has been recorded, so far as I am aware, though Prof. Cockerell 

 has sent one to the U. S. National Museum from Las Cruces, N. M. 

 Four specimens are in Mr. Brown's Pecos collection. 

 Sceloporus consobrinus B. and G. 



This lizard was common in Dry Cafion as well as on the desert. It is 

 apparently the form so identified by Cope, but probably not the one so 

 named by Stejneger in the report on reptiles collected on the San Fran- 

 cisco Mountain survey. One specimen from Highrolls, Sacramento 

 I^Iountains, in the Transition belt, is doubtless referable to the latter. 

 It is darker and more heavily built than those from the desert. The 

 material in the Academy collection has not sufficiontly accurate data as 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



to locality and altitude to properly work out this difficult group, so that 

 the above identification must be taken as pro\'isional. Found plenti- 

 fully also at Pecos. Tex. 



Phrynosoma cornutum Harlan. 



Common on the plain all about Alamogordo ; a typical species of 

 the eastern Lower Sonoran region and extending well up the Rio 

 Grande Valle}^ in New Mexico. 

 Phrynosoma douglasii hernandesi Girard. 



Obtained abundantly by Mr. Viereck in the Transition and Canadian 

 belts of the Sacramento Mountains. Specimens were also secured for 

 the Academy from Sapello Canon. San Miguel county. X. ^L. in August. 

 1901, by Dr. Henry Skinner. 



Mr. Viereck brought home a live individual of this species and kept it 

 in captivity for some time. It proved to be an adult female, and gave 

 birth to thirteen young. He gives me the following information rela- 

 tive to the operation : When first noticed four young had been born, a 

 fifth appeared at 10.05 A.M., and after that one was deposited about 

 every five minutes. The birth was effected by the female standing on 

 her hind legs as high from the ground as possible. There first appeared 

 a drop of clear fluid, followed by a bubble-like transparent membrane 

 containing the young, which is then entirely discharged and dropped, 

 the operation taking less than two minutes. If the young is perfect it 

 will soon begin to wriggle, and will clear itself of the membrane in about 

 five minutes from birth. The young are at first narrow and cylindrical, 

 but as soon as they begin to inhale air they become broad and flat like 

 the adult, and darken in color. They measured at birth 16 X 10 mm. 



Some were evidently born prematurely and showed no signs of life; 

 they were doubled up and surrounded by a glutinous mass. 



Anota modesta (Girard). 



Very common on the plains about Alamogordo. This is another 

 species of the Lower Sonoran of central Texas, and a number are in "Slv. 

 Brown's collection from Pecos. 



Cnemidophorus gularis B. aud G. 



Abundant in the canons, but not found in me desert regions about 

 Alamogordo, where its place is taken by the following species. To the 

 westward the relative distribution of the two remains the same, C. gularis 

 occupying the Upper Sonoran of Arizona east of Tucson, while C. tes- 

 sellatus spreads over all the Lower Sonoran desert areas and, according 

 to Dr. Merriam, pushes up some distance into the Upper Sonoran of the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



Death Valley region. The exact relationship and distribution of these 

 two forms and the eastern C. sexlineatus is a very difficult problem, 

 though it would probably be much simplified by adequate material with 

 exact data, such as that borne by the series before me. Many of the 

 localities quoted by Prof. Cope in his Crocodilians, Lizards and Snakes 

 of N. A. are so exceedingly vague and others so doubtful that they had 

 better be ignored, at least until confirmed. After examining the mate- 

 rial received by him from Texas, it would seem that C. sexlineatus 

 extends over the Austro-riparian region of eastern Texas, departing 

 but little from the normal type until we reach the border of the Lower 

 Sonoran (first plateau) belt. Here we have a form closely resembUng 

 the C. gularis of Dry Canon, which would seem to be the only form in 

 central Texas. C. grahami Cope, of which I have examined speci- 

 mens from the Staked Plains, seems to be most closely related to C. 

 tessellatus; but if the central Texas form is C. gularis, we would have 

 the faunal relation of the representatives of the two species exactly 

 reversed as compared with the vicinity of Alamogordo, since the 

 Staked Plains are Upper Sonoran, and central Texas Lower Sonoran. 

 The Academy has both species from the vicinity of Pecos, but with- 

 out details of distribution ; and as both faunal belts occur there in close 

 proximity, it is quite possible that their distribution is as sharply 

 limited as at Alamogordo. Mr. Brown's Pecos collection contains 

 specimens of both tessellatus and gidaris, as well as some identified as 

 sexlineatus. They are accompanied by no data as to relative habitats. 



Cnemidophorus tessellatus (Say). 



Abundant in the desert about Alamogordo. 

 PityopMs sayi bellona B. and G. 



A number of specimens obtained, which are probably referable to the 

 western desert race. They possess a broad rostral, but have usually a 

 well-indicated black, subcaudal, longitudinal stripe. 



Salvadora grahamiae B. and G. 



One specimen obtained which belongs to the typical form. Several 

 others were seen. Mr. Brown obtained one from Pecos, Texas. 



Crotalus adamanteus atrox B. and G. 

 One specimen secured, 



Crotalus confluentus Say. 



One specimen which agrees exactly with Prof. Cope's type of C. pul- 

 verulentus from Lake Valley, N. M., but the characters do not seem to 

 have any significance further than indicating individual variatiou. 

 3 




34 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



The following additional species are contained in Mr. A. E. Brown's 

 collection from Pecos, Tex. 



Eumeces ohsoletiis B. and G.. 

 Uta ornata B. and G.. 

 Rhinochilus lecontei B. and G. 

 Heterodon nasicus B. and G.. 

 Zamenis fagellvm Shaw. 



Zamenis tcsniatus ornatus'B. and G., 

 Contia episcopa Kenn., 

 Glaucona dvlcis B. and G,, 

 Tantilla nigriceps Kenn. 



BATRAOHIANS. 

 The only Batrachian obtained was 

 Bufo pnnctatus B. and G. 



Two individuals from the spring in Dr\^ Canon. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



MYRIOPODS FROM BEULAH, NEW MEXICO. 

 BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN. 



The chilopods and diplopods noted and described in this paper com- 

 pose a small collection kindly sent me for determination by Prof. T. D. 

 A. Cockerell, to whom I wish here to express my thanks. All were col- 

 lected at Beulah, N. M., which is at an elevation of about 8,000 feet 

 above sea-level and within the Canadian zone. The forms prove to be 

 largely peciihar, each being easily distinguished from any pre\aously 

 described species. The Geophilus is especially interesting. 



Lithobius glyptocephalus sp. nov. 



Diagnosis.— Angles of the 9th, 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced; 

 articles of antennse 20; ocelH 16-18 in three series; prosternal teeth 6-6, 

 7-7; spines of first legs beneath 1, 3, 2, of penult 1, 3, 3, 2, of anal 1, 

 3, 3, 1 ; coxal pores 6, 7, 7, 7-6, 7, 8, 8, transverse ; length 20 mm. 



Description. — Body brown to light-broTvm, head and posterior dorsal 

 scuta darker, reddish-brown or chestnut; venter paler; legs colored 

 similarly to body, but distal joints, especially the first tarsal, pur- 

 plish ; antennse chestnut proximally , the terminal portion light-bro^\•n ; 

 dorsal plates roughened, sparsely pilose, especially caudad; antennae 

 moderately pilose with stiff hairs. 



Head subcordate, slightly wider than long (12: 11.5); a strong fur- 

 row extending dorso-mesad on each side, each furrow dividing into two 

 branches, the anterior of which curves forward to unite with its fellow 

 of the opposite side just back of the frontal suture, the posterior 

 branches uniting similarly in front of caudal margin of head. 



Ocelli in a narrow elongate patch which is widest behind; 16-18 in 

 number, arranged in three series (1 +7, 6, 4r-l +5, 5, 5) ; rather large and 

 distinct. 



Antennse short, consisting of 20 articles of moderate length, the ulti- 

 mate long and pointed at the end. 



Prosternal teeth 6-6, 7-7, uniform. 



Angles of the 9th, 11th and 13th doi-sal plates produced; plates more 

 or less distinctly depressed along the median longitudinal line ; posterior 

 margin of principal plates, except 7th, sinuate, posterior margin of 7th 

 straight; principal plates strongly marginate laterally and posteriorly. 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



Spines of the first legs J-^^^f^J; of the penult ^^,, the claw with 

 one spine; of the anal ^'3^-''^ the claw unarmed; last two coxae armed 

 laterally -^ith a stout spine. 



Coxal pores 6, 7, 7, 6-6, 7, 8, 8, transversely elongate. 



Gonopods of female with the claw tripartite, the lateral lobes much 

 reduced, almost minute; basal spines 2-2, stout, clavately thickened 

 distally. 



Genital appendages of male short and wart-like, pilose. 



Length of body 20 mm.; width of 10th plate 2.6 mm.; length of 

 antennae 8.1 mm.; of anal legs 8.2 mm. 



Remarks. — ^The description is based upon two adult specimens, a 

 male and a female. This species seems to be nearest L. howei Boll, 

 from which, however, it may easily be separated by the characters 

 assigned in the diagnosis. 

 Lithobius Beulse sp. nov. 



Diagnosis. — Angles of none of the dorsal plates produced ; head but 

 little wider than long (10.5: 10); articles of antennae 21; ocelh 9-11, in 

 two series; prosternal teeth 2-2; spines of first legs beneath 0. 2, 1, of 

 penult 1, 3, 3, 1, the claw armed with a single spine; posterior coxae 

 unarmed beneath or laterally; coxal pores 2, 3, 3, 3, round; length 

 8 mm. 



Description. — Body, head and antennae brown, legs paler; polished; 

 dorsum uniformly sparsely pilose with short hairs, hairs of venter 

 more scattered; head subglabrous; legs, prosternum and prehensorial 

 feet sparsely pilose; antennae proximally with but few hairs or sub- 

 glabrous, distally rather densely pilose; genital and anal segments 

 clothed below with long hairs. 



Head cordiform, posterior border truncate; a little wider than long 

 (10.5: 10); posterior lateral borders depressed; impressed on posterior 

 portion with two longitudinal diverging sulci, each with a tendency to 

 split into two lines anteriorly. 



Ocelli in a linear patch, 9-11 in number, arranged in two series 

 (1+3,5-1+4,6). 



Antennae short, articles 21, mostly short, the ultimate long and cylin- 

 drical. 



Prosternal teeth 2-2, pale, acute. 



Principal dorsal plates all margined laterally and caudally ; the lateral 

 and posterior l)ordcrs, especially in the anterior plates, depressed, the 

 dorsum within border strongly arched, bisulcate ;• posterior borders of 

 lesser plates all straight, of principal ones gently sinuate, none pro- 

 duced, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



Spines of the first legs Ji^^iiii^J; of the penult J^J^-J^, the claw 



armed with a single spine; posterior coxae \jnarmed beneath or laterally. 



Coxal pores round, 2, 3, 3, 3. 



Genital appendages of male small, wart-like. 



Length of body, 7-8 mm.; width of 10th dorsal plate, .76 mm.: 

 length of antennae, 2.3 mm. 



Remarks.— The description is based upon two males, both of which 

 have lost the anal legs. The general appearance is not unlike that of 

 L. utahensis Chamb., from the mountains of Utah. 



Geophilus atopodon sp. nov. 



Diagnosis. — Frontal plate discrete, last ventral plate narrow; anal 

 pores present, moderately large; pleural pores 10-16 adjacent to ven- 

 tral and dorsal plates ; coxae of prehensorial feet each armed with a stout 

 tooth, the tooth of claw truncate at end; pairs of legs 49-51 (9 ), claw 

 of anal legs long (? ) ; length, 25 mm. 



Description.— Rsither robust, very gradually attenuated cephalad, 

 more abruptly caudad ; color uniformly light-brown, the legs the same, 

 the antennae lighter distally. Dorsal plates smooth, sparsely pilose; 

 legs very sparsety pilose; last seven articles of antennae densely pilose 

 with short hairs, the proximal ones more sparsely provided with long, 

 hairs ; prosternum and coxae of prehensorial feet finely punctate. 



Antennae short, the ultimate joint reduced distally, shorter than the 

 two preceding taken together. 



Cephalic plate much longer than wide (2.5: 1.9), anterior and pos- 

 terior margins nearly straight, the sides curving, wider in front than 

 behind. Frontal plate discrete, the suture V-shaped in the middle 

 with the point directed backward. Cephahc plate back of suture im- 

 pressed with a strong suture near each lateral margin and with one each 

 side of the median line; a median sulcus extending cephalad in the V- 

 shaped opening of the suture. Prebasal plate concealed. Basal plate 

 as a whole more than twice wider than long (9:4), exposed portion 

 wider than long in the ratio 9 : 2.25. 



Claws of prehensorial feet when closed scarcely reaching the end of 

 the first antennal article ; claw armed at base with a moderately stout, 

 truncate tooth; coxa armed with a stout tooth which is somewhat 

 longer than that of the claw; prosternum wider than long (12: 10.5), 

 less than twice the height of the coxa, unarmed. 



Dorsal scuta not sulcate or with a few of the middle ones indis- 

 tinctly bisulcate ; anterior praescuta short, becoming long or very 

 long in the posterior middle region, the last ones again short. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



First anterior spiracle large, vertically oval, a few following of the 

 same shape, others round, gradually decreasing in size from the first to 

 the last. 



Anterior ventral plates ^dth a median sulcus, some of the middle ones 

 with a median oval area marked off laterally by semi-lunar depressions. 

 Ventral pores numerous, in more anterior plates arranged in a median 

 depressed area, in first middle plates in a longitudinal median band and 

 in a narrower band cephalad of posterior margin, fm'ther back covering 

 nearly the entire surface, although in some more or less absent from a 

 median area while densely covering the plate elsewhere. 



First pair of legs shorter and much more slender than those succeed- 

 ing, legs increasing in length from the first to the last. Anal legs with 

 a long claw. 



Pleurse of last segment with 10-16 pores arranged mostly along the 

 margin of the ventral plate or partly covered by the latter, a number 

 (4-5) also adjacent or somewhat overlapped by the dorsal plate. Last 

 ventral plate a Httle wider than long, about as wide as the one pre- 

 ceding. 



Pairs of legs 49-51. Length, 25 mm. ; greatest width,1.2 mm ; length 

 of antennae, 2 mm. ; of anal legs, .9 mm. 



Remarks. — The types are two adult females. They are not verj- 

 closely related to any other known species. 



Parajulus neomexicanus sp- nov. 



Diagnosis. — First dorsal plate smooth, its sides not at all striate; 

 other segments strongly striate below. Repugnatorial pores small, 

 free from the transverse suture. Last dorsal plate blunt behind, not 

 extending beyond anal valves. Pre-anal scale convexly rounded in 

 front and behind, the curved margins meeting at an acute angle 

 laterally. Anal valves marginate, rugose. Male: Mandibular stipes 

 strongly produced below; the greatly enlarged first pair of legs not 

 at all bent or hamate at end, not tuberculate; copulatory feet ex- 

 posed, the anterior plate set obhquely, very wide, clavately enlarged 

 upward, and produced backward above base posteriorly, the inner 

 border bent inward or backward, indented below top. conceaUng 

 middle and posterior piece from the front and side. 



Description. — Slender, smooth and shining, glabrous. General color 

 light-brown, transversely banded with dark-brown or blackish, a 

 median dorsal fine of same ; a series of suboval light-colored spots along 

 lower part of each side; toward dorsiun within dark band of each seg- 

 ment a short row of light-colored, often confluent, blotches each crossed 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .39 



by a network of fine dark lines ; in each segment laterad of the dorsal 

 line a short, light-colored transverse line; feet pale; first dorsal plate 

 and vertex of head Ught-brown, covered with a network of fine dark- 

 brown fines; a dark, blackish band between eyes, with within near 

 middle two fight fines diverging cephalad ; a fight spot mesad from the 

 base of each antenna; clypeal region fight-brown; antennae dark. 



Head at vertex with a shaUow median sulcus. Antennae in length 

 about equaling the width of the body; pilose, the terminal articles 

 densely so ; articles long. Ocelfi in a large triangular patch, about 50 in 

 nmnber, arranged in 8 series. 



First dorsal plate smooth, not at all striate ; other segments strongly 

 striate beneath, above mth numerous longitudinal wa\y lines; anterior 

 segments more strongly striate than the posterior. Posterior angle of 

 the last dorsal plate rounded, blunt, but fittle produced, not extending 

 beyond anal valves. Pre-anal scale convexly rounded in front and 

 behind, indented in the middle behind,. the two curved margins meet- 

 ing at an acute angle on each side; lAdth two long bristles, other- 

 wise glabrous. 



Anal valves glabrous, marginate; the elevate margins crossed by a 

 series of transverse siilci; valves elsewhere roughened by numerous 

 longitudinal rugae. 



Repugnatorial pores small, not touching transverse suture. 



Legs rather short, not extending beyond sides of body, sparsely 

 pilose, claw strong; last tarsal joint with a row of stout bristles {pulvilli 

 tar sales) projecting outward on each side (d^). 



Male: Stipes of mandibles strongly produced below; fii-st pair of legs 

 greatly enlarged, reaching anterior margin of gnathocliilarium, nearly 

 straight, not bent or at aU hamate at end, very sparsely pilose, not 

 tuberculate ; coxae of second pair of legs meeting within and produced 

 forward into a narrow tongue-fike process with a round or button- 

 shaped appendage at end, at base of coxae a median pit which continues 

 forward along process as a shaUow furrow; copulatory appendages 

 exposed ; anterior plate set somewhat obfiquely , very wide, clavately 

 enlarged upward, the outer or posterior border much produced back- 

 ward above base, conceafing other pieces from front and side, inner 

 border indented below top, bent inward or backward, plate pilose with 

 numerous long hairs outward from bent border and along a line below 

 and paraUel with upper margin; middle piece (as also outer one) shorter 

 than the anterior, subtriangular in caudal aspect, acutely pointed, with 

 fine, rather distantly placed teeth along sides which are not strongly 

 bent or roUed, inner basal portion produced forward, a hamate process 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



in front of each; outer or posterior piece narrowed above, its top 

 rounded and a little bent, bearing a long bristle, at base also one or 

 several long bristles. 



Segments 47-57. Length, 36 mm. ; wddth, 1.9 mm. 



Remarks. — ^The specimens studied include three adults, two males 

 and a female, and several immature individuals. The measurements 

 given are from the largest indi^ddual, a male. 

 Polydesmus sp. 



Several young incUviduals of a species of this genus are in the col- 

 lection. They are of the stage possessing only twelve segments, and 

 thus too young for determination. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



LIST OF THE POLYCYSTID GREGARINES OF THE UNITED STATES. 

 BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. • 



The polycystid gregarines of the United States have as yet been but 

 very Uttle studied, and the hst here given, which I believe to be com- 

 plete, contains but twenty-eight species. Of these, six are also found 

 in Europe and were first described from there. It is to Prof. Leidy that 

 we owe the better part of our knowledge of the American forms. Ten 

 species were described by him in accounts pubUshed in the Proceedings 

 of the Academy and in the Transactions of the American Philosophical 

 Society from 1848-1889. In addition to these, four more species are 

 described and figured by Leidy in manuscript notes now in posses- 

 sion of the Academy, access to which I owe to the kindness of the 

 Secretary, Dr. Nolan. Of the remaining eight forms, one was de- 

 scribed by Porter, and seven were found by me in animals collected 

 at Wyncote, Pa., and Raleigh, N. C, during the past year. 



The four forms described in Leidy's manuscript, and the one by Por- 

 ter, were not named. I have accordingly created new species for them 

 which, with the seven that I discovered, makes twelve new species. 

 Although the method of naming a gregarine after its host has been ob- 

 jected to by Schneider, it appears to me the most advisable, and it has 

 accordingly been followed. Considerable difficulty was experienced, 

 however, in determining to which genera these new species belong. 

 The generic characters of gregarines are mostly those of the cysts and 

 spores, and I was particularly unfortunate in failing to obtain these 

 stages. In several cases it has been possible to judge, even without 

 these criteria, what the correct genus is, and such forms have been 

 placed where they probably belong without question. Where, how- 

 ever, there was considerable doubt, a question mark has been placed 

 before the generic name. 



II. 



The following is a list of the Arthropoda found to contain gregarines, 

 the first column giving the number of individuals examined, the second 

 the number parasitized : 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Juhis and Parajulus.. 165 158 



Polydesmus virginiensis 32 26 



Fontariasp - 2 2 



Lysiopetalum lactarium 16 6 



Spirobolus sp... 1 1 



Ldthobius forcipatus — 13 4 



Scolopocryptops sexspinosus 6 3 



Scutigera forceps — . 4 3 



Geophilus sp — - 8 



Elater sp - 8 1 



Cucujid larva 5 2 



Disccelus oralis — - 2 2 



Harpalus caliginosus 1 1 



Dytiscus sp., larva 1 1 



It is headed mth Julus and Parajulus. These two genera of Diplo- 

 pods are distinguished by characters of the mouth-parts and anterior 

 feet, but they are much alike and the smaller species of Parajulus are 

 but httle larger than those of Julus. No attempt was made to distin- 

 guish between these two genera and much less between the various 

 species, but such an attempt would have been of no especial utility, 

 even if successful. They are to be found together, beneath logs, stones 

 and leaves, and, as the list shows, they are almost invariably para- 

 sitized, the gregarine being Stenophora juli. It is possible to obtain 

 these Diplopods at any season of the year, and so far as my observa- 

 tions go, the gregarines have no seasonal cycle, but all stages are met 

 with at any time. Usually a given host contains a moderate number 

 of gregarines, from twenty to forty, these ranging from the largest 

 adults to the smallest intracellidar stages. Frequently, however, 

 only a very few parasites are found in a host, and in such cases they 

 will be for the most part quite smaU. In none of the millipedes ex- 

 amined have I come across the cysts, nor, to my knowledge, the free 

 spores. 



In consideration of their gregarious habit, and their diet of rotten 

 wood and vegetable fibre, it is easy to see why Julus and Parajulus are 

 so persistently parasitized. . It is also worthy of note that other animals 

 ha\'ing the same mode of hfe and generally found in the same places do 

 not appear ever to contain gregarines. A case in point is that of the 

 Isopoda, Oniscus and Porcellio. These are almost always found with 

 Julu^ and Parajulus, and they doubtless frequently swallow the spores 

 of Stenophora. The isopod intestine is, however, lined with chitin, and 




1903.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



the immunity is probably due to the inabihty of a gregarine sporozoite 

 10 get into the cells. 



The 32 specimens of Polydesmus examined were some from Wyncote 

 and some from Raleigh, N. C. Polydesmus is infected by two greg- 

 arines, Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis and Amphoroides fontarioe. Of 

 these, both were present in 14 hosts, G. polydesmivirginiensis alone in 

 five and A. jontarice alone in seven. The Diplopods from one region 

 were about as frequently parasitized as from the other, but G. polydes- 

 mivirginiensis was present oftener and in larger numbers in the animals 

 from Wyncote than in those from Raleigh, while the reverse was true in 

 the case of A. jontarice. It is for this reason that the latter, although a 

 frequent parasite of Polydesmus, has been named for Fontaria. Where 

 two gregarines parasitize a given host, it is generally found that one 

 occurs far more frequently than the other. The more frequent para- 

 site is spoken of as the primary, the other as the secondary. Usually- 

 also, the primary parasite of one host is the secondary of another. In 

 Pemisylvania, where Polydesmus is common and Fontaria does not 

 occur, the former, as stated above, is more often parasitized by G. poly- 

 desmivirginiensis than by A. fontarice. In North Carolina, where i^o??- 

 taria is common, the more usual parasite of Polydesmus is A. fontaria:. 

 This gregarine, furthermore, was present in great numbers in the two 

 individuals of Fontaria 1 was able to examine. It may therefore be 

 concluded that G. polydesmivirginiensis is the primary of Polydesmus, 

 while A. fontarice is the primary of Fontaria. 



In Polydesmus, G. polydesmivirginiensis was usually present in mod- 

 erate nimibers, from 20 to 50, although occasionally there were only a 

 very few. On the other hand, A. fontarioe ran to extremes. Some 

 miUipedes would show only two or three gregarines, while in othei* cases 

 they were present by the hundreds. There were only a few, however, 

 in the animals taken at Wyncote. 



Of sixteen specimens of Lysiopctahun ladarium. six were parasitized. 

 Two gregarines occur, one a new species which I have named Gregarina 

 calverti, the other apparently Stenophora juli. Both gregarines were 

 present in two hosts, G. calverti alone in three and S. jidi alone in one. 

 Thus the former species was present five times and the latter three. 

 G. calverti is therefore to be regarded as the primary parasite of Lysio- 

 petalum. 



This miUipede is found under stones in much dryer places than 

 Jvlus, Parajulus or Polydesmus, and it is somewhat soUtary in habit. 

 It is thus easy to see why only a comparatively small percentage of 

 them is parasitized. G. calverti occurred in moderate numbers in all 




44 rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail. 



cases, whereas S. juli was present in hundreds m one ca.se and in only 

 small numbers in the other two. 



Echinomcra hispida, the primary parasite of Lithohius jorcipatus, was 

 found only foiu- times in tliirteen hosts collected at WjTicote and Ral- 

 eigh. In two of these cases, moreover, but a single gregarine was 

 found. At Cambridge, Mass., where Lithohius is a much commoner 

 animal, a larger percentage are parasitized and the gregarines are 

 present in larger numbers. Actinocephalus dujardini, the secondary 

 parasite of Lithohius, is verj^ rare. 



Scolopocryptops is parasitized by Hoplorhynchus adinotus. The greg- 

 arines occur in small numbers, from ten to twelve, in fifty per cent, of 

 the Chilopods. 



Of the five specimens of Scutigera forceps, four contained gregarines 

 The species is Trichorhynchus pulcher; and never but a very few, from 

 three to ten, are present. 



It is not necessary to go over the balance of the hst in detail. Atten- 

 tion may, however, be called to the fact that eight indi^^duals of Geophi- 

 l lis were opened in A-ain . 



III. 



Gregarina blattarum Sieb. 



Gregarina blattarum Siebold (1S39), p. 57, Taf . 3, figs. 57-61. 

 Gregarina blattarum Frantzius (1848), p. 190, Taf. 7, fig. iii. 

 Gregarina blattarum Stein (1848), p. 182, Taf. 9, figs. 38, 39. 

 Gregarina blattce-orientalis Leidy (1853), p. 239, PI. 11, figs. 39-41. 

 Clepsidrina blattarum Schneider (1875), p. 580, PI. 17, figs. 11, 12. 

 Clepsidnna blattarum Butsclili (1881), p. 384, Taf. 20, 21 

 Clepsidrina blattarum Wolters (1891), p. 115, Taf. 7. 

 Clepsidrina blattarum Marshall (1893), p. 25, Taf. 20, 21. 



Common in Periplaneta orientalis, Periplaneta americana and Ectohia 

 (Blatta) germanica. A few specimens of Ischnoptera pennsylvanicus, 

 the field cockroach, were examined, but none contained gregarines. 



1 Gregarina termitis Leidy. 



Gregarina termitis Leidy (1881), p. 441, fig. 27. 

 Gregarina termitis Porter (1897), p. 65, PL 6, figs. 73-76. 



Leidy says: "A small gregarine was once noticed in our Termite, and 

 is represented in fig. 27. The body is ovoid, with the narrower end pos- 

 terior. The head [protomerite] spheroid, compressed from above down- 

 ward. Length .06 mm. ; head .018 mm. long, .03 broad; body .036 mm. 

 broad." 



Porter adds the information that the gregarines are very common in 

 some specimens of termites, occurring mostly in the anterior part of the 

 smaU intestine, and that the nucleus contains one karyosome. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



I have opened perhaps a dozen termites in a search for this parasite, 

 but have not yet encountered it. 

 Gregarina achetseabbreviatae Leidy. PL III, figs. 34-35. 



Gregarina achetceahhreviatce Leidy (1853), p. 238, PI. 11, figs 33, 34. 



Epimerite: Simple, spherical. 



Protomerite: Somewhat pentagonal to hemispherical. Separated 

 from the deutomerite by a sharp constriction. Shape modified in the 

 associations. 



Deutomerite: Cj^hndrical, tapering slightly. Terminating bluntly. 



Epicyte: Thick. 



Sarcocyte: ?. 



Entocyte: Of equal density in both protomerite and deutoiucritc. 



Nucleus: Large, spherical with several karyosomes. 



Dimensions: Maximum length 600 microns. 



Host: Acheta ahhreviata. Infection extensive. 



Locality: Beach Haven, N. J. 



1 Gregarina scarabeirelicti Leidy. 



Gregarina scarabeirelicti Leidy (1851), p. 208, 287. 

 Gregarina scarabeirelicti Leidy (1856), p. 47. 



I have not seen this species. 



? Gregarina melolonthaebrunneae Leidy. 



Gregarina melolonthoebrunnece Leidy (1856), p. 47. 



I have not seen this species. 

 Gregarina passalicornuti Leidy. PI. II, fig. 24. 



Gregarina passalicornuti Leidy (1853), p. 238, PI. 11, figs. 30-31. 



Epimerite: ?. 



Protomerite: Hemispherical in the priniites; considerably compressed 

 in the satellites. 



Deutomantc: Cylindrical; sometimes slightly narrower about the 

 middle. 



Epicyte: Tliick. 



Sarcocyte: Thick. 



Entocyte: Opaque. 



Nucleus: Moderate. Spherical. 



Dimensions: Average length of pairs 350-400 microns. 



Host: Possalus cornutus. 



? Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis Leidy. PI. 11, fig. 2.5. 



Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis Leidy (1853), p. 238, PI. 10, fig.s. 2.3-29. 



Epimerite: Not seen, 



Protomerite: Always small; sometimes apparently undeveloped in 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



the younger animals. Never any constriction between it and the deu- 

 tomerite in relaxed animals . 



Deutomerite: Long. Anterior half usually much broader than pos- 

 terior half. Usually considerabty curved. 



Epicyte: Very distinct. 1^2 microns thick. 



Sarcocyte: Distinct. 



Entocyte: Usually, but not always, considerabl}' denser in the ante- 

 rior part of the deutomerite than in the posterior part. 



Nucleus: Always with one karyosome . 



Dimensions: 400 microns long. 



Movements: This is a very active gregarine, and displays continuaUy 

 both changes of shape and progression. The contractions are generally 

 confined to the anterior part of the deutomerite. As a rule, the smaller 

 animals are less active than the larger. 



Host: Polydesmus virginiensis. Infection is common, the parasites 

 being present in moderate numbers. 



Locality: W5rncote, Pa., and Raleigh, N. C. 



? Gregarina elaterae sp. n. PL I, fig. li. 



Epimerite: Spherical, vnth a granular contents. Usual size and 

 appearance shown by fig. 11. In several cases, however, apparently on 

 account of the absorption of water, it had increased enormousty in size, 

 so that its diameter exceeded the length of the gregarine. 



Protomerite: Elliptical in outline, mth the greater axis transverse. 

 Posterior hmit straight. Separated from the deutomerite by a sharp 

 constriction. 



Deutomerite: Oval to subspherical. 



Epicyte: Very thin. 



Sarcocyte: ?. 



Entocyte: Granular in aU three segments . Sparsely filled with large 

 and very distinct granules, so that the appearance presented was rather 

 that of a cihate or a heliozoan packed wath plant spores than a greg- 

 arine. 



Nucleus: Not seen. 



Dimensions: Maximum length 62 microns. 



Movements: The animals were very sluggish, the onlj- movements 

 seen being an occasional lateral displacement of the protomerite. and, in 

 one case, progression of perhaps one-half the animal's length. 



Host: The larva of a large species of Elater. Infection only occh- 

 sional, and never but a few gregarines present. 



Locality: Wjmcote, Pa. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



? Gregarina discaeli sp. n. PI. I, figs. 7-10. 



Epimerite: ?. 



Protomerite: Helniet-shaped to pentagonal. Separated from the 

 deutomerite by a shallow constriction in the adults, by a deep constric- 

 tion in the young. 



Deutomerite: Greatly elongated, cylindrical to shghtly conical, termi- 

 nating bluntly. 



Epicyte: Very thin. Longitudinal striations not evident. 



Sarcocyte: Apparently wanting. 



Endocyte: Densely granular and opaque in the deutomerite; nearly 

 transparent in the protomerite. Anterior part of protomerite free from 

 granules. 



Nucleus: Not readily seen, but apparently possessed of a number of 

 karyosomes disposed in a cluster. 



Dimensions: Maximum length 1200 microns. In the young the 

 ratio of length to breadth is about eight to one, in the adults about 

 fifteen to one. 



Movements: These gregarines possess the flexibility of an eel. They 

 frequently bent themselves into crescents, circles and short, close spi- 

 rals, this last phenomenon demonstrating the spirality of the myocyte. 

 Fig. 10 shows the longitudinal axis of one contorted animal observed, 

 A being the anterior and P the posterior end. 



Host: Disccelus ovalis. Of the two beetles examined, one contained 

 from 50-75 parasites ; the other not nearly so many. 



Locality: Wyncote, Pa. 



No cases of association were seen, but for the most part these greg- 

 arines were disposed in dense bunches with their posterior ends glued 

 together. There was one such mass seen which presented the appear- 

 ance of a bunch of celer}'-, the animals being all closely apposed from 

 their posterior ends nearly as far forward as their protornerites. 

 ? Gregarina xylopini sji. n.i PI. III. figs. 2y, 30. 



The two gregarines shown in figs. 29 and 30 are stated by Leidy to be 

 parasites of the beetle Xylopinus saperdoides. Of the six beetles exam- 

 ined, five contained gregarines of the form shown in fig. 29, one of the 

 form shown in fig. 30. These two forms are so dissimilar that it appears 

 better, at present, to give only the figures, reserving the description 

 until additional information is at hand. 

 ? Gregarina boletophagi sp. n.-; PI. ir. ligs. 'Jt;-2.'<. 



Epimerite: ?. 



Protomerite: Large, variable in shape. Separated from deutomerite 

 by a sharp constriction. 



' From Leidy's MSS. ^ From Leidy's MSS. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Deutomerite: Qy^lindrical; with a protrusion at the posterior end, to 

 conical with a pointed end. 



Epicyte: Thick. 



Sarcocyte: ?. 



Entocyte: Dense, uniform in both protomerite and deutomerite. 



Nucleus: Moderate; oval to spherical, with one karyosome. 



Dimensions: 320 microns long. 



Host: Boletophagus cornutus. 



Locality: Swarthmore, Pa. 

 1 Gregarina calverti^ sp. n. PI. II, figs. 10-21. 



Epimerite: Not seen. 



Protomerite: Greatly compressed in the large animals (figs. 19, 20). 

 Anterior boundary usually straight or slightly convex, but frequently 

 concave, giving the protomerite the form of a shallow cup. Approxi- 

 mately reniform in the young animals (fig. 21). Constriction always 

 deep and sharp. 



Deutomerite: Displays a shoulder at the anterior end, being here 

 widest. Narrows gradually backward, more regularly in the younger, 

 less regularly in the older animals. Posterior end always blunt. 



Epicyte: Thicker than the sarcocyte. Longitudinal sculpturing may 

 or may not be present. It was often possible to see that the proto- 

 merite was longitudinally striated, but the cause for this appearance 

 seemed to he deeper than the epicyte. 



Sarcocyte: Thinner than the epicyte. 



Myocyte: Easily seen in the living animals. 



Entocyte: In large animals black in transmitted light in the deuto- 

 merite and nearly so in the protomerite. In most cases, however, the 

 granules do not fill the entire entocyte, but thin out rapidly toward the 

 posterior end, so that in the last fourth or fifth of the entocyte they con- 

 stitute only a narrow, central strip. This condition is shown in fig. 21, 

 from a young animal, and is held true for nearly all the gregarines seen. 



Nucleus: Not large, spherical, with one spherical karyosome. 



Movements: These gregarines, although quite flexible, are rather 

 sluggish, and usually lie motionless. Progression, when observed, was 

 generally accompanied by lateral movements of the protomerite. As a 

 rule, the animals were slightly curved, a phenomenon frequently dis- 

 played by elongated gregarines. 



Dimensions: Maximum length 1,500 microns. 



Host: Lysiopetalum lactarium. 



Locality: Wyncote, Pa. 



*To Philip P. Calvert. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



■? Gregarina harpali sp. n. PI. I, figs. 1-4. 



Epimerite: Not seen. 



Protomerite: In the adults (fig. 1) hemispherical and narrower than 

 the deutomerite, from which it is separated by a sharp, but not exten- 

 sive, constriction. In the young (figs. 2 and 3) knob-shaped, wider 

 than the deutomerite and separated from that part by a shallow con- 

 striction. 



Deutomerite: Conical in the adults to cylindrical in the young. The 

 posterior end is normally blunt and rounded. These gregarines, how- 

 ever, are quite polymorphic and readily change shape. 



Epicyte: Relatively very thin in the adults. Marked with very fine 

 longitudinal ridges, which are not visible in the living animals and 

 require sections for their demonstration. 



Sarcocyte: Not visible in adults. In the young (fig. 3) present in the 

 protomerite and constituting the thick septum. Apparently wanting 

 in the rest of the deutomerite. In the front part of the protomerite a 

 little papilla is present, apparently composed of a differentiation of the 

 sarcocyte. This papilla is much more e\'ident in some specimens than 

 in others, and sometimes takes the form of a minute knob. It was 

 never seen in adult animals. 



Entocyte: Black in transmitted light in the adults, semi-transparent 

 in the young, but in both as dense in the protomerite as in the deuto- 

 merite. In the young, as shown in fig. 3, there is a crescentic area 

 almost free from granules. In stained and sectioned animals (fig. 4) 

 this crescentic area is seen to consist of very dense cytoplasm, with a 

 considerable affinity for stains. This condition is wholly lost in the 

 adults. 



Nucleus: In the living animals, wholly in\dsible in the adults and not 

 satisfactorily to be made out in the young. Sectioned material shows 

 that it is large, spherical, and possesses several karyosomes. These 

 are variable in size and are scattered singly throughout the entire extent 

 of the nucleus. They display the usual phenomenon of vacuoles. 



Movements: The movements displayed by these gregarines were 

 leisurely muscular contractions and slow progression. There was also a 

 disposition to rumple the edges of the body, so that the epicyte of the 

 deutomerite presented a series of scallops. These scallops underwent 

 slow changes, the movement being doubtless the usual peristalsis, 

 although very much slower than in the case of most gregarines. Pro- 

 gression was in either more or less of a straight line, or in curves of short 

 radius. In the latter case, the animals held their bodies so bent that 

 the longitudinal axis formed a curve. In all cases progression was 

 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



extremely slow. A niimber of animals showed no movement whatever 

 and some of these held the scalloped outhne Tsdthout change. 



Dimensions: Length 225-700 microns. 



Host: Harpalus caliginosus. The gregarines were present in the 

 intestine of the one beetle examined in hundreds, and while no associ- 

 ations were seen, there was a very marked tendency for them to be 

 lying massed closely together. 



Locality: Wyncote, Pa. 



?Hirmocystis ovalis sp. n. PL I, figs. 5-6. 



Epimerite: Usually elliptical in outline, with the longer axis trans- 

 verse, but frequentty considerably flattened down. Wall with double 

 contour. Contents hyaline. 



Protomerite: Hemispherical. 



Deutomerite : Cylindrical to oval, but more usually the latter. 

 Always terminating bluntly. 



Epicijte: Thin over the anterior part of the protomerite; elsewhere 

 thick. Longitudinal striations not seen. 



Sarcocyte: ?. 



Entocyte: Dark brown in the larger individuals, and of approxi- 

 mately the same density in both protomerite and deutomerite. The 

 anterior third of the protomerite is usually, but not always, free from 

 granules. 



Nucleus: Not seen. 



Dimensions: Greatest length 70 microns. 



Host: The larva of a beetle doubtfully identified as belonging to the 

 Cucujidse. The gregarines occurred sparingly, ten or twelve being the 

 greatest number found in any one host. About half the insects exam- 

 ined were parasitized. 



1 Euspora lucani ?p. n.< PI. Ill, fig. 38. 



Epimerite: ?. 



Protomerite: Small, compressed from before backward. Separated 

 from the deutomerite by a deep constriction. 



Deutomerite: Cylindrical; sometimes narrower in the middle. 



Epicyte: Thick. 



Sarcocyte: ?. 



Entocyte: ?. 



Nucleus: ?. 



Di77iensions: Oi one association; primite 520X128 microns, satellite 

 360 X 108 microns. 



^FromLeidy'sMSS. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



Host: Lucanusdama. 



Locality: Swarthmore, Pa. 



The gregarines occurred either singly or associated in pairs. 



Stenophora juli Frantzius. 



Gregarinajuli Frantzius (1848), p. 194, Taf. 7, fig. x, 1-2. 

 Gregarina larvata Leidy (1848-49), p. 232. 

 Gregarina juli-marginati Leidy (1853), p. 237, PI. 10, figs. 1-20. 

 Gregarina juli-pimdli Leidy (1853), p. 238, PI. 10, figs. 21-22. 

 Stenocephalus juli Schneider (1875); p. 584, PI. 20, figs. 29-33. 



The best figures extant of this gregarine are those pubhshed by Leidy 

 in 1853. His fig. 17 is especially good in showing the apparent orifice 

 through the thickened epicyte of the anterior part of the protomerite. 

 The contortions displayed by the gregarine are also portrayed in an 

 admirable manner. 



This species lives in the intestine of Juhis and the smaller species of 

 Parajulus. It is extremely common, occurring in at least 90 per cent, 

 of the hosts examined, usually in moderate numbers, from forty to fift)' 

 or thereabouts, but frequently only a very few are present. All stages 

 from the smallest intracellular forms to the largest sporonts, may be 

 found at any season of the year, but cysts are very rarely seen. 



Stenophora juli continues as a cell parasite until it has reached a 

 length of perhaps 100 microns. The cephalont stage is probably 

 omitted. Leidy gives the maximum size as one-thirtieth of an inch, 

 which is nearly a millimeter, but I have never seen the species longer 

 than 400 microns. 



stenophora spiroboli sp. u. PI. II, fig. 22. 



Epimerite: Not seen. 



Protomerite: Very small, narrower than the deutomerite and much 

 compressed from before backward. 



Deutomerite: Cylindrical, tapering but very little and terminating 

 blimtly. 



Epicyte: Very distinct; about l{ microns thick. Longitudinal stri- 

 ations easily seen. 



Sarcocyte: Well developed ; about 2 microns thick over most of the 

 animal, but attaining twice this thickness at the posterior end. 



Entocyte: Opaque in both protomerite and deutomerite. 



Nucleus: Not seen. 



Dimensions: Maximum length 1,000 microns. 



Movements: While progression was slight, the animals showed con- 

 stant muscular movements. In some cases they bent themselves into 

 the shape of the letter U, in others merely the anterior end was bent 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



over, but the one condition passed into the other. In addition, the 

 anterior end was constantly being \\Tinkled and distorted, and httle 

 pseudopodia-Uke processes were protruded and withdrawn. 



Host: Spirobolus. But one indi\ddual examined, which contained 

 seven or eight gregarines, none less than 500 microns in length. 



Locality: Raleigh, N. C. 



Echinomera Mspida Aim^ Schn. 



Echinocephalus hispidus Sclmeider (1875), p. 593, PI. 16, figs. 36-40. 



This gregarine was found in four out of thirteen individuals oiLitho- 

 bius forcipatus collected at Wyncote, Pa., and Raleigh, N. C, but it is 

 much commoner at Cambridge, ]\Iass. 



Echinomera microcephala Leidy. 



Gregarina microcephala Leidy (1889), p. 11, 1 fig. 



Our knowledge of this form rests upon a very short description given 

 by Prof. Leidy. It is very much like Echinomera Mspida, and is accord- 

 ingly placed in that genus, but retained as a distinct species. 



The total length is 350 microns; greatest T\ddth 100 microns. The 

 protomerite is 12 microns long by 40 microns ■udde. 



Host: Hoplocephala hicornis. 



Trichorhynchus pulcher Aim6 Schn. 



Trichorhynchus pulcher Schneider (1882), p. 438, PI. 13, fig. 14. 

 Gregarina megacephala Leidy (1889), p. 11, 1 fig. 



This form is well described by Aime Schneider, whose figure also is 

 excellent, gi\'ing a very accurate idea of the actual animal. Schneider, 

 however, gives no dimensions, while Leidy says that the dimensions 

 vary from 420-750 microns, these figures agreeing very closely with 

 those which I obtained. 



My ovra observations on this species show it to be an active, ver}' 

 polymorphic gregarine, with the abilitj" to undergo extensive altera- 

 tions in shape. Thus, the anterior end of the protomerite, normally a 

 blunt curv'e, frequently protrudes in a long tongue-shaped process. 

 The peristaltic movement, so frequently displayed by gregarines, may, 

 in this species, pass forward as well as backward. This indicates that 

 here the contractile elements are capable of operating as well in one 

 direction as another, which is certainly not the case in most polycystid 

 gregarines. 



Fusion, preparatory to encystment, was seen to take place "head to 

 head." 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Amphoroides fontariae sp. n. PI. I, figs. 12-14. 



Epimerite: Not seen. 



Protomerite: ]More or less pentagonal in outline. Separated from 

 deutomerite by an evident constriction. 



Deutomerite: Variable, normally a long oval. Sometimes shows a 

 distinct shoulder in front. Always terminates bluntly. 



Epicyte: Very distinct over the entire animal. Greatly thickened at 

 the anterior part of the protomerite, this feature being as well marked 

 in the smallest as in the largest animals. Longitudinal striations not 

 e^ddent. 



Sarcocyte: Alwaj's present, but much more evident in some animals 

 than in others. 



Entocyte: Very opaque in the deutomerite, and nearly transparent in 

 the protomerite, the contrast between the two parts being very sharp 

 in this gregarine. 



Nucleus: Moderate in size, spherical, with one usually spherical 

 karyosome. Not always evident in the living animals. 



Dimensions: Maximum length 135 microns. 



Movements: This gregarine is very active, displaying constantly both 

 muscular contractions and a gliding progression. The muscular activ- 

 ity manifests itself in lateral displacements of the protomerite, in bend- 

 ings of the deutomerite and in a peristalsis which involves the anterior 

 part of the deutomerite. Progression is easy and rapid and always 

 accompanied by evidences of muscular contraction. 



Hosts: Polydesmus and Fontaria, Diplopods of the family Polydes- 

 midse. The gregarines were usually present in hundreds in the para- 

 sitized animal, but often only a very few could be found. 



Localities: Wyncote, Pa., and Raleigh, N. C. 



Asterophora philica Leidy. PI. III. figs. 31-33. 

 Gregarina philica Leidy (1889), p. 9, 1 fig. 



It is impossible to give a description of this species. Figs. 31 and 32 

 are very plainly of the same gregarine, whereas fig. 33 seems almost cer- 

 tainly to belong to a different species. Further, the form figured by 

 Leidy in 1889 is not so closely like that shown by figs. 31 and 32 as to 

 render it certain that the two are the same. 



I therefore include the three different forms under the same name, 

 giving only the figures and reference, until such time as sufficient mate- 

 rial is obtained to determine accurately what the actual facts may be. 



The gregarines figured were about 300 microns long. 




54: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Asterophora cratoparis sp. nfi PI. II, fig. 23. 



Epimerite: Small; consists of a number of ribs projecting from a 

 central knob. 



Protomerite: Nearly reniform, but with a conical projection in front, 

 upon which rests the epimerite. Separated from the deutomerite by a 

 sharp constriction. 



Deutomerite: Lanceolate; terminating bluntly. 



Epicyte: Thick. 



Sarcocyte: ?. 



Entocyte: ?. 



Nucleus: Not small; spherical, with a spherical karyosome. 



Dimensions: Length 540 microns. 



Host: Cratoparis lunatus, a beetle of the family Curculionidse. Eight 

 gregarines, all attached to the wall of the host's intestine, were present 

 in the one individual examined. 



Locality: Swarthmore, Pa. 

 Stephanophora locustaecarolinae Leidy. 



Gregarina locustcecarolince Leidy (1853), p. 239, PI. 11, figs. 35-38. 



Provisionally placed in the genus Stephanophora on account of the 

 character of the epimerite. I have not ^''et encountered the species. 



Bothriopsis histrio Aim^ Schn. PI. II, figs. 15-lS. 



Bothriopsis histrio Schneider (1875), p. 596, PI. 21, figs. 8-13. 

 Bothriopsis histrio L^ger (1892), p. 136, PI. 13, figs. 1-3. 



This gregarine was described by Aime Schneider in 1875. The diag- 

 nosis then given is as follows : Epimerite wanting. Protomerite form- 

 ing a large rounded mass, of which the anterior part may be either very 

 convex or quite concave. Deutomerite oval. Septum projecting for- 

 ward in such a fashion that it resembles the finger of a glove. Nucleus 

 eUiptical in outline, with several karyosomes. Epicyte with double 

 contour, sarcocyte wanting and entocyte very finely granular. Animal 

 highly polymorphic and movements very rapid. 



Hosts: Hydaticus cinereus (larva), Colymbetes fuscus and Acilius 

 sulcatus. 



Leger adds the information that the epimerite consists of a number of 

 long filaments. 



I find what is apparently the same gregarine in the larva of Dytiscus 

 sp., but four or five imagines were opened in vain. My observations, 

 however, differ somewhat from Schneider's, although they do not 

 appear to warrant creating a new species. 



Fig. 15 shows the protomerite of this gregarine. As stated by Schnei- 



5 From Leidy's MSS. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



der, it is a large rounded mass ; but whereas Schneider's figures repre- 

 sent it to be sohd, I find that it contains, at least in some cases, a large 

 cavity. Within this cavity was a fluid in which floated a few granules. 



This condition was the more usual, and free gregarines, as they moved 

 about on the slide, presented a remarkable appearance with their enor- 

 mous balloon-shaped protomerites. The appearance of other indi- 

 viduals was, however, markedly different. Fig. 17 shows an attached 

 animal. Here the protomerite was narrow and elongated , the narrow 

 anterior end being, so far as I was able to see, embedded in the cells of 

 the host. In this case there were no indications of a cavity within the 

 protomerite. 



It is to be observed, in figs. 15, 17 and 18, that the septum dips back- 

 ward. In a number of cases, however, the septum dipped forward, and 

 such appears to have been the only condition seen by Schneider. In 

 these gregarines, accordingly, the septum may dip in either direction, 

 which indicates a high degree of flexibility and elasticity on the part of 

 the sarcocyte, and this condition is also suggested by their superlative 

 polymorphism. 



It is therefore possible to interpret the rather curious appearance 

 shown in fig. 16. This was drawn from a progressing individual, to all 

 appearances wholly normal. In this animal, the protomerite lies 

 embedded within the deutomerite. It may be suggested that this is 

 derived from the condition shown in fig. 18 by a mere contraction of the 

 most anterior part of the deutomerite, by which the protomerite is 

 forced backward. Quite a number of animals presented this appear- 

 ance. 



Fig. 18 is from a permanent mount, and probabl}^ represents the 

 normal form of the protomerite when only a small quantity of fluid is 

 present. It is noteworthy in that the protomerite is more densely 

 granular than the deutomerite. 



The larger, more elongated specimens reached a length of 425 

 microns. There were about 25 gregarines in the beetle-larva, which 

 was taken at Wyncote, Pa. 

 Aotinocephalus dujardini Aime Schn. 



Actinocephalus dujardini Schneider (1875), p. 589, PI. 16, figs. 9-20. 



I have seen this little gregarine several times in specimens of Litho- 

 hius forcipatus. 



Hoplorhynclius actinotus Leidy. PI. Ill, figs. 36, 37. 

 Gregarina actinotus Leidy (1889), p. 10, 1 fig. 

 Epimerite: Amphora-shaped. Differentiated in front into four 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



dichotomoiisly branched lobes. Contents hyaline. Easily detached. 

 In the small animals, making' up nearly one-half the total length; in 

 the adults, from one-fourth to one-fifth of the total length. 



Protomerite: In the 3^oung, knob-shaped, with the transverse and 

 longitudinal diameters about equal. In the adults, hemispherical, with 

 the transverse diameter twice as great as the longitudinal. 



Deutomerite: Conical, with a pointed posterior end. Usually a shoul- 

 der at the septum. Subject to considerable alterations in shape, being 

 at one time longer and narrower, at another shorter and broader. 



Epicyte: About 3 microns thick [in the larger individuals. Longi- 

 tudinal striations could not be made out. 



Sarcocyte: ?. 



Entocyte: Absolutely opacjue in the larger animals. Much more 

 nearly transparent in the smaller. 



Nucleus: Only apparent as a light oval area, usually lying diagonally 

 across the deutomerite. 



Dimertsions: The largest sporont seen was 485 microns long by 105 

 microns broad. Leidy gives 600 microns for the length of a cephalont. 



Host: Scolopocryptops. Not rare. Infection usually moderate, from 

 15-30 parasites per host. 



Locality: Wyncote, Pa., Raleigh, X. C, and WaUingford, Pa. 



Apparently, in this gregarine, the septum tends to disappear. It is 

 much more evident in some cephalonts than in others, and in one spo- 

 ront seen no septum could be made out, and the entocyte of the proto- 

 merite was not distinguishable from that of the deutomerite. 



Doliocystis rhyncobli sp. n. 



Porter (lS97a), p. 8, PI. 3, figs. 37-53. 



This form is described, but not named, by Porter, and the figures given 

 are scarcely diagnostic enough to determine the correct genus. Its 

 habitat, the intestine of the marine worm Rhyncoholus americanus Ver- 

 riU, renders it probable, however, that the parasite belongs to the genus 

 Doliocystis, and the specific name rhyncoholi may appropriately be used. 



Porter describes it as a tricystid, but says: "The conical base of the 

 epimerite is continuous with the contents of the anterior portion of the 

 protomerite, for there is an orifice through the cuticular wall of the pro- 

 tomerite, and the base of the epimerite is composed of protoplasm very 

 similar to that of the protomerite." 



But such an intimate union between the protoplasmic parts of pro- 

 tomerite and epimerite is not known to exist in gregarines. It may 

 therefore be suggested that that part of the animal which Porter took to 




1903.] XATfRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



be protomerite plus epimerite was in reality onh' the epimerite, and 

 that the gregarine is truly a dicystid. 



The deutomerite is described as being composed of very loose and 

 highly vacuolated protoplasm, and the nucleus as showing several kary- 

 osomes. The animal is 700 microns long. 



The host is Rhyncoholus ameincanus Verrill. The parasite occurs in 

 one worm in ten. and rarel}^ more than eight were found in any one host. 



Porter makes the suggestion that gregarine locomotion "is probably 

 caused by a very slight undulatory motion of the under side of the 

 animal." I regret having been unaware of this suggestion, which ac- 

 cords with my own opinions, at the time I wrote my article on gregarine 

 progression. 



Bibliography. 



BuTSCHLi. O., ISSl. Kleine Beitriige zur Keimtniss der Gregarinen. Zeit. f. 



wiss. Zool., Bd. 35, pp. 3S4-409, Taf. 20 u. 21. 

 FRANTZirs. Al.. 1848. Einige nachtragliche Bemerkungen iib er Gregarinen 



Arch. Xaturgesch., 14 Jahrg., Bd. 1, pp. 188-197, Taf. 7. 

 Leidy, Joseph, 1848-49. Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. of Phila., Vol. 4, p. 231 (verbal 



communication) . 

 Leidy, Joseph, 1851. Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. of Phila., ^'ol. 5, pp. 208, 287. (verbal 



communications). 

 Leidy, Joseph, 1853. On the Organization of the genus Gregarina of Dufour. 



Trans. Amer. Phil. Society, Vol. 10, X. S., pp. 233-241, Pis. 11, 12. 

 Leidy, Joseph, 1856. Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. of Phila., Vol. 8, p. 47 (verbal com- 

 munication). 

 Leidy, Joseph, 1881. The Parasites of the Termites. Jour. Acad. Xat. Sci. of 



Phila., Vol. 8, Second Series, pp. 425-447, Pis. 51, 52. 

 Leidy, Joseph, 1889. Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. of Phila., 1889, pp. 9-11 (verbal 



communication) . 

 Leger, L., 1892. Eecherches sur les gregarines. Tabl. Zoologiques, t. 3, pp. 



1-182, 22 PI. 

 Marshall, W. S., 1893. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Gregarinen. Arch. Xatur- 

 gesch., Bd. 1, pp. 25-44, Taf. 20, 21. 

 Porter J. F 1897. Trichonympha, and other Parasites of Termes flavipes. 



Bull. Museum Harvard, Vol. 31, pp. 45-68, 6 PI. 

 Porter, J. F., 1897a. Two Xew Gregarinida. Jour. Morph., Vol. 14, pp. 1-20, 



Pis. 1-3. 

 Schneider, Aime, 1875. Contributions a I'histoire dcs Gregarines des Invert^- 



bres de Paris et de Roscoff. Arch. Zool. exper., 4, pp. 493-604, 7 PI. 

 Schneider Aime, 1882. Seconde contribution a I'^tude des Gregarines. Arch. 



Zool. exper., 10, pp. 423-450, PI. 13. 

 SiEBOLD, Th., 1839. Beitrage zur Xaturgescliiclite der wirbellosen Thiere. 



TJeber die zur Gattung Gregarina gehorigen Helminthen. Xeueste bohnften 



der naturf. Ges. in Danzig., Bd. 3, Heft 2, pp. 56-71, Taf. 1-3. 

 Stein, Fr., . 1848. Ueber die Xatur der Gregarinen. Muller's Archiv, pp. 



182-223, Taf. 8. 

 Wolters, M., 1891. Die Conjugation und Sporenbildung bei Gregarinen- 



Arch, fur mikr. Anat., Bd. 37, pp. 99-138, 4 Taf. 




58 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ]Jan., 



ExPLAXATIOX OF PlATES I. II AND III. 



Plate I, Fig. 1. — Gregarina harpali (p. 49). Adult. 



Fig. 2. — Gregarina Jiarpali (p. 49). Young. 



Fig. 3. — Gregarina harpali (p. 49) . Protomerite of a young animal. 



Fig. 4. — Gregarina harpali (p. 49). Section of the protomerite of a young 



animal. 

 Fig. 5. — Hirmocystis ovalis (p. 50). Sporont. 

 Fig. 6. — Hirmocystis ovalis (p. 50). Cephalont. 

 Fig. 7. — Gregarina discwli (p. 47). Adult. 

 Fig. 8. — Gregarina discwli (p. 47). Young. 



Fig. 9. — Gregarina discceli (p. 47). Protomerite of an adult animal. 

 Fig. 10. — Gregarina discceli (p. '47) . Diagram sho-ning the longitudinal axis 



of a contorted animal, A being the anterior and P the posterior end. 

 Fig. 11.— Gregarina elaterce (p. 46). Cephalont. 

 Figs. 12-14. — Amphoroides fontarice (p. 53). Adults. 



Plate II, Figs. 15-18. — Bothriopsis histrio (p. 54). 



Fig. 19. — Gregarina calverti (p. 48). Adult. 



Fig. 20. — Gregarina calverti (p. 48). Protomerite of an adult. 



Fig. 21. — Gregarina calverti (p. 48). Young 



Fig. 22. — Stenophora spiroboli (p. 51). Adult. 



Fig. 23. — Asterophora cratoparis (p. 54). Cephalont. (Copied from 



Leidy's MSS.) 

 Fig. 24. — Gregarina passalicornuti (p. 45). Association. (Copied from 



Leidy's MSS.) 

 Fig. 25. — Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis (p. 45). Adult. (Copied from 



Leidy's MSS.) 

 Figs. 26-28. — Gregarina boletophagi (p. 47). (Copied from Leidy's MSS.) 



Plate III, Figs. 29, 30. — Gregarina xylopini (p. 47). (Copied from Leidy's 

 MSS.) 



Figs. 31-33. — Asterophora philica (p. 53). (Copied from Leidy's MSS). 

 Figs. 34, 35. — Gregarina achetoeabbreviatoe (p. 45). (Copied from Leidy's 



MSS.) 

 Figs. 36-37. — Hoplorynchus actinotus (p. 55). Cephalonts. (Copied from 



Leidy's MMS.) 

 Fig. 38. — Euspora lucani (p. 50). Association. (Copied from Leidy's 



MMS.) 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



STUDIES ON THE HABITS OF SPIDEKS, PAETICULAKLY THOSE OF THE 

 MATING PERIOD. 



BY THOMAS H. IMONTGOMEEY, JR.,* PH.D. 



It is remarkable how little the habits of spiders have been pursued, 

 in consideration of the fact of their many peculiarities. Their webs 

 and the making of them have received the most attention, and next 

 to that their architecture of nests and burrows. A great hterature 

 has grown up about the subject of the "threads of the Virgin," as to 

 the use of spiders in medicine, and as to their supposed venomous 

 bites. On the subject of generation, where the spiders are especially 

 removed from other animals, for the most part only scattered and 

 brief observations are to be found, and these mainly among the older 

 observers. Menge, who saw and described more of the mating habits 

 than any other natuxahst before or since, took the pains to watch each 

 of his specimens ahve in a bottle before killing it, and this was the 

 simple secret of his success. j\Iost of the other recorded facts of 

 mating, except the notable ones of de Lignac, Bertkau and the Peck- 

 hams, were gleaned from chance observation in the field, which 

 must be necessarily less full and precise. Let the arachnologist watch 

 his spiders in the hfe before he kills them to describe their carcasses, 

 and the facts of structure will have a richer and more inspiring in- 

 fluence. ^ 



And of fiulher interest is the consideration that spiders were first 

 classified according to a certain set of habits, namely, the architecture 

 of their webs, and some of the groups thus early defined are still rec- 

 tified by morphological characters. In them is to be found a good 

 opportunity for examining the conservatism of habit, and for testing 

 how much reliance in taxonomy may be placed upon similarities of 

 habit — similarities that may persist through great changes of structure. 



The present study concerns mainly the processes of courtship and 

 copulation, the remarkable filling of the palpi with sperm (for which 

 the term "sperm-induction" is here introduced), the process of cocoon- 

 making, and the maternal care for the young. Other observations 

 have also been included on moult, and in some cases on feeding h abits . 



1 Contribution from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The genera studied and the families in which they are grouped are the 

 following: Lycosidse {Lycosa, Pardosa, Pirata, Ocyale), Agalenidse 

 (Tegenaria, Agalena), Dict}Tiidae (Dictyna), Theridiidse {Theridium, 

 Teutana, Steatoda, Linyphia), Pholcidse (Pholcus), Epeiridae (Epeira, 

 Acrosoma), Thomisidae (Xysticus), Philodromidae (Philodromus) and 

 Drassidse (Prosthesima , Thargalia, Drassus). The Attidae were pur- 

 posely omitted, since good work has been done upon them by the 

 Peckhams. 



The method employed was to keep the smallest species in glass test- 

 tubes, the others in glass boxes of various sizes. A considerable 

 variety of the latter were made by using microscope slides and old 

 photographic plates from which the fihns had been removed. Strong 

 gummed linen was used for holding the parts together. A very' con- 

 venient glass cage for observing the mating of small Lycosids is to 

 take a photographic plate 11x8 cm. as a base, three microscope sUdes 

 (each measiu-ing 7.5 x 2.5 cm. or 7.5 x 4 cm.) as the walls, arranged 

 together in a triangle with their narrow diameter vertical to the base, 

 and the ends of two of the sUdes with just sufficient aperture be- 

 tween them to allow the placing of another sUde as a movable parti- 

 tion; and finally two shdes, each 7.5x4 cm., as covers. TVTiere the 

 edges of any two of the walls meet at an angle a strip of gimmied linen 

 is pasted on, also at the angle of each wall with the floor; and by 

 gummed linen strips the glass covers are hinged to the upper edge of 

 one of the walls. Thus one can make a tight and strong cage, with 

 two compartments separated by a glass partition, and each compart- 

 ment with its own hinged cover. Other cages were made rectangular 

 without movable partitions; and for the larger species, and for those 

 that make webs, large cages were made of photographic plates entirely. 

 Such cages are readily and cheaply made, and more than a himdred of 

 various sizes and fonns were employed. Their advantages are obvious. 

 The whole is of glass, the linen strips which hold them together can 

 be made narrow and short and placed so as not to interfere with any 

 observation. The floor being also of glass, one has simply to hold the 

 cage over a mirror to see the spiders from underneath, and its siu^ace 

 retains in drop-form water introduced for drinking purposes. When 

 the floor has become soiled with excrement or remains of food, the 

 gummed hnen that holds it to the walls may be torn off, the floor 

 washed, then returned and gmnmed into position again. It is of great 

 advantage to have the floor removable in the case of species which 

 build a web in the upper part of the cage, for then it may be removed 

 and cleaned without injun,- to the web. For species that cannot 




1903.] XATUR.\X SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



easily climb the smooth glass walls, such as the hea^-ie^ Epeirids, 

 threads may be tied upon these walls to give them a foothold. To 

 observe burrowing habits one should put earth in the cages. 



Small spiders may be used as food when insects are not obtainable, 

 house flies at other times. All groimd spiders need water frequently, 

 and the species of Pirata quickly die from thirst. Attempts to feed 

 the spiders with beef extract were unsuccessful. 



It is by no means sufficient, however, to simply place the spiders in 

 their glass cages. Great patience in expectant watching is demanded, 

 and no results can be gained unless long continuous periods can be 

 given to this watching.. To obser\-e the mating, the spiders should 

 be collected in their natural mating season, and matiu'e males intro- 

 duced to females which have just become mature; and in the case of 

 the Lycosidse the collecting should commence in the early spring. 

 Partition cages are most useful for the spiders which do not spin webs, 

 as they ob^'iate any handling; in the web-making species the male 

 should be gently dropped from a test-tube upon the web of the female; 

 in no case should the spiders be handled with forceps. Freshly caught 

 specimens generally give the best results. The considerable niunber 

 of deaths which resulted diuing the month of September were mainly 

 on account of stan^ation, due to my absence at that time. 



This contribution is di^•ided into three parts: Obsersations, Gen- 

 eral Considerations, and a list of the literature bearing upon the sub- 

 jects of courtship, mating, parthenogenesis, cocooning. sexual selec- 

 tion, and care of eggs and young. The literature list it has been my 

 aim to make as complete as possible. 



The species of Didyna. Teiitana. Steatoda, Linyphia, Xysticus. 

 Drassus and Philodromus. ]klr. Nathan Banks, Assistant in the Di^'ision 

 of Entomolog}^. U. S. Department of Agriculture, has kindly identified 

 for me, and it gives me pleasure to express my thanks here for this 

 service . 



Finally. I would dedicate the work to the one who cheered long \'igils 

 of observation with her sATupathy. 

 Lycosa Btonei ilonig. PI. V, fig. 10. 



This small species is found abimdantly in local woods in the spring 

 and early portion of the summer, rmrning upon the dead leaves on the 

 ground. Later in the summer it becomes rarer, the females then hiding 

 themselves imder stones, and the males disappearing. The general 

 coloration of the female is an admirable adaptation to the color of 

 dead leaves; the male is smaller, mainly deep black in color, and the 

 tibiseof his first pair of legs are covered with vertically implanted bristles. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



not so conspicuously, however, as the male of L. ocreata pidchra. It 

 is very readily kept in captivity, when supplied with sufficient water. 



Individuals observed, males: No. 34, captured Maj'- 4, immature, killed May 10; 

 No. 37, captured May 4, moult May 24, killed the same day by a 9 ; ^o- 151, 

 captured May 26, killed by $ , June 16; No. 164, captured May 31, killed by ? 

 on the same day; No. 236, captured June 22. killed by parasite July 21 ; No. 238, 

 captured June 22, died July 8; No. 240. captured June 22, died June 27; No. 284, 

 captured July 2, died July 7 . 



Individuals observed, females: No. 36, captured May 4, moult May -7, died in 

 November; No. 51, captured May 6, killed May 11 (then immature); No. 16.5, 

 captured May 31, still Hving; No. 184, captured June 10, died October 4; No. 

 227, captured June 27, still living; No. 228, captured June 22. escaped July 20; 

 No. 229, captured June 22, escaped August 11; No. 230, captured June 22, 

 escaped late in September; No. 231, captured June 22, died October 18; No. 

 237, captured June 22, killed by parasite July 3 ; No. 239, captured June 22, 

 killed by parasite August 26; No. 241, captured June 22, moult July 19, killed 

 by parasite about September 8; No. 244, captured June 22, moult July 3, died 

 August 16 (then not mature); No. 285, captured July 2, killed by parasite about 

 September 1; No. 287, captured July 2, killed by parasite about .September 30; 

 No. 324, captured July 23. still living. 



Moult. — ? No. 244 moulted in about half an hour, hanging to the 

 wall of her cage by her spinnerets ; she fell out of the old skin, which 

 was split horizontally along its whole length backward almost to the 

 spinnerets, c? No. 37 took only a few minutes to complete his moult. 



Mating. — The followng records were made on this process: 

 . (1) 9 No. 36. Several males were put in her cage before she had 

 completed her final moult, on May 7, but there was no courtship. 

 Then after similar results with males Nos. 34 and 37, the latter was 

 introduced again on May 24, when she killed him. On May 27 <^ No. 

 151 was introduced; coiutship followed but no copulation. At 2.15 

 P.M. on May 28, the same male was put in and immediately started 

 his courting motions. These consisted of the following movements: 

 The male generally walks with his first pair of legs stretched before 

 him, tapping the groimd with them occasionally; this is evidently to 

 feel the objects in front of him. When he had touched the female 

 with them, he immediately recognized her sex, stood higher upon his 

 legs, raised his first pair and flexed them backward at the femoro- 

 tibial joint, then straightened them out in front of him again, repeating 

 this several times, and at the same jerking his whole body backward 

 and forward with the movement without changing the position on 

 the ground of the other feet; there was no waving of the palpi. He 

 left her, walked around the cage, returned and repeated the motions; 

 they were then face to face, when she lowered her head to the ground, 




1903.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



flexed her legs closer to her sides and, so to speak, cowered before 

 him. Then from in front he walked over her head, and embraced 

 her tightly with Ms three anterior pairs of legs; his head was pointed 

 toward her posterior end and just above the pedicel of her abdomen. 

 In the copulation he would turn his cephalothorax first a little to one 

 side of her body, then to the other, throwing both palpi over that side 

 of hers to which he had turned. When his head was turned toward 

 her right side, his right palpus w^ould be stretched down along the 

 right side of her abdomen and inserted in the epigynum ; when toward 

 her left side, the left palpus w^ould be inserted. Thus to alternate 

 the palpi he had each time to shghtly change his position upon her, 

 but the grip of his legs remained unchanged. Each palpus would be 

 rubbed against her epigynum until inserted, then kept there until an 

 invaginated swollen sac of the palpal organ had collapsed, a period 

 not exceeding twenty seconds, when the palpus would be withdrawn 

 and rubbed between his cheHcera. The following palpal insertions 

 were made, the abbreviations r and I being used for right and left palpus 

 respectively, the first numbers giving the time extent, the second the 

 number of insertions into the epigynum: r, 2.18-2.20, 3 or 4; 1, 2.20- 

 2.21, 5; r, 2.21-2.28^, 4; 1, 2.28i-2.3U, 7; r, 2.3U-2.38i, 6; 1, 2.38^- 

 2.53i, 15; r, 2.53^-3.01, 9; 1, 3.01-3.11, 7; r, 3.11-3.19, 6; 1, 3.19-3.26, 

 5; r, 3.26-3.30, 3^; 1, 3.30-3.361, 4; r, 3.36^-3.38, 4; 1, 3.38-3.42^, 3 

 r, 3.42+-3.46, 3; 1, 3.46-3.50^ 3; r, 3.50+-3.59, 4; 1, 3.59-4.04, 3 

 r, 4.04-4.07, 2; 1, 4.07-4.12, 2; r, 4.12-4.18^, 3; 1, 4.18*-4.23^, 2 

 r, 4.23^.26, 1 ; 1, 4.26-4.28, 1 ; r, 4.28-4.31, not inserted once. Then 

 he rose and moved away and was taken from the cage; she remained 

 motionless for several minutes afterward in the same attitude; her 

 only movements during the copulation was to flex the side of her 

 abdomen upw^ard to meet the palpus applied. This copulation lasted 

 2 hours and 13 minutes. At 7.40 P.j\I. on the same day he was put in 

 again, but she received him hostilely with upraised fore-legs. On 

 May 29, when introduced, he courted again, but she was hostile, and 

 this was repeated on May 31. 



(2) ? No. 51 was immature, and was very aggressive to o No. 41, 

 whom she killed on the last occasion ; he had made no courting move- 

 ments. As other females of this species, when she is hostile to a male, 

 with uplifted fore-legs she moves very slowly and stealthily toward, 

 then makes a quick rush at the male. 



(3) ? No. 165 killed on May 31 6" No. 164, after courtship, c? No. 

 151 was introduced on June 2, but though he courted at first, he soon 

 ceased by reason of her aggressiveness. On June 3 the same male 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



was put in for more than an hour; he courted with interruptions, she 

 would sometimes jump at, sometimes run from him. On June 5 the 

 same male was introduced at 5.00 P.M. He immediately commenced 

 his courting motions and came close to her, when she jumped at him; 

 he turned away and walked aroimd the cage, still courting, came 

 back face to face with her; she lowered her outstretched fore-legs, bent 

 her head to the ground, and he embraced her and commenced the 

 copulation. The attitudes were as in the case of c? No. 151, 9 No. 36. 

 The copulation lasted from 5.02 until 6.17 P.M., that is 1 hour and 

 15 minutes; the palpi were quite regularly alternated, the right used 

 12 times and the left 13 times. The male then rose and left her, and 

 was removed; the female remained in the same position until 6.24. 

 In the early part of the copulation the palpus was kept inserted for 

 4-5 seconds ; in the latter part, for 20 seconds. 



(4) 9 No. 184 made her cocoon on June 29, and so was pregnant 

 when I introduced cJ^ No. 151 on June 12 and 13; both times she reacted 

 hostilely to his courtship. 



(5) 9 No. 237 was parasitized. On June 22, 23 and 26, o' No. 236 

 was introduced and com'ted each time, but she was hostile. In his 

 courtship both legs of the first pair were not alwa5^s moved in unison, 

 but sometimes alternately. 



(6) ? No. 239 was also parasitized. On June 22, 23 and 24, 6" No. 

 238 was placed in her cage and he courted, but she repulsed him each 

 time. June 26 d" No. 236 (just after his courtship of 9 No. 237) 

 courted her, but in vain, and this was the case with c? No. 238 on 

 July 1. 



(7) 9 No. 241, likewise parasitized, c? No. 240 was introduced on 

 several occasions, but though he courted there was no response. 



(8) 9 No. 244 was not mature, and males Nos. 267, 284 and 326 

 when introduced did not court. 



Thus there is quite a distinct courtship by the male of the mature 

 female, even when she is pregnant. The courting motions are modi- 

 fications of the cautious feeling motions ; the stretching out of the first 

 pair of legs enables the male to feel and so to guard himself. Even in 

 his ardor, then, the instinct of caution toward a stronger individual 

 is not lost. When the female stands high upon her legs and stretches 

 out her fore-legs, it is the same attitude of guard but with offensive 

 intent; a frightened female, when attacked by a stronger individual, 

 does not make use of this attitude, but slinks away. The female shows 

 her willingness to the male by depressing these fore-legs. The bristly 

 tibise of the male are shown off by the courting movements of the male ; 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



but other Lycosids without such armature make similar movements. 

 That sight pays a considerable part in the mating of this, as of other 

 Lycosids, is shown by the actions at a distance. But apparently the 

 first recognition of sex is by touch. 



Sperm-induction. — d^ No. 151 concluded his copulation with 9 No. 

 165 at 6.17 P.M., June 5. At 7 P.M. of the same day he cleaned him- 

 self, then w^ent to one corner of the cage and commenced to brush his 

 spinnerets over the floor. He formed a roughly-made small sheet of web 

 of triangular outline, one side of it on the floor, one on the wall of the 

 cage, and the tliird (the longest) free in the air from the wall to the 

 floor. With his chelicera he then tore away some of the silk on this 

 free edge, making it smoother there, doing so from 7.10 to 7.25. Next 

 he placed himself above the sheet as follows : The ventral surface of 

 his cephalothorax upon the upper free edge of the sheeting so that his 

 palpi hung down over this edge, his abdomen slightly elevated above 

 and parallel to the sheet, the legs of his right side against the vertical 

 glass wall, those of his left upon the floor. At 7.28 a small j^ellowish 

 drop of sperm, its diameter not greater than that of one of his meta- 

 tarsi, fell from his genital aperture on the superor surface of the sheet 

 at about its middle point. He then reached his palpi downward and 

 backward, below the sheet, and applied the concave portion of the 

 palpal organ of each against that part of the sheet which carried the 

 drop of sperm. Each palpus was thus rubbed against the lower surface 

 of this drop several times, then withdrawn and slowly shaken in the 

 air, while the other was similarly applied to the drop. This continued 

 until 7.35, by which time all of the sperm had been taken into the 

 palpal organs. He remained perfectly quiet in the same position up 

 to 7.53, depositing no more sperm, and then walked about the cage. 



Cocooning.— The cocoon is a nearly globular bag, and the mode of 

 making it was seen several times, of which these will serve as examples : 



(1) 9 No. 231 was observed on June 28, at 7.30 P.M., spinning a cir- 

 cular disk of silk ("base" of the cocoon) on the floor, close to the edge of 

 a nearly evaporated drop of water. This base's diameter did not quite 

 equal the length of her body. She was then brushing her spinnerets 

 from side to side, and rotating her body at intervals. At first she 

 made frequent pauses, but fewer as she proceeded, and gradually 

 enlarged the diameter of the base until it quite equaled the length of 

 her body. This continued until 8.15, when she changed the metlKxl 

 of spinning, and started to build a silken wall upon the margin of the 

 base; this she accomplished by elevating her spinnerets high in the air 

 after each stroke, then applying them again close to the first j)()int of 

 5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



attachment of the threads, thus lajnng down looped threads. As she 

 did so she rotated her body slowly, keeping the tips of her palpi pressed 

 against the portion of the margin opposite the one to which she applied 

 her spinnerets. So she formed a narrow marginal wall, low but quite 

 visible to the naked eye, made entirely of looped tlireads. This was 

 finished at 8.35. Then she stood so across the cocoon base that her 

 palpi touched the wall in front and her spinnerets the wall behind, and 

 oviposited upon the centre of the base. From her genital aperture 

 fell a large drop of viscid fluid, its upper surface remaining adherent to 

 her genitalia, and the yellowish ova dropped into it one b}^ one. The 

 oviposition lasted from 8.36 to 8.41, when she tore herself loose from 

 the viscid drop and started to spin the cover of the cocoon. She spun 

 over the egg mass uninterruptedly from 8.41 to 8.59, forming a dense 

 covering and battening the silken wall doT\Ti at the same time. From 

 8.59 to 9.01 she occupied herself with loosening the cocoon from the 

 glass floor of the cage, doing sd by seizing with her chelicera and pulling 

 first one part of the edge of the base, then another, bracing her legs 

 firmly against the ground, until she had completely loosened it. She 

 then held it a moment attached to her spinnerets, then from 9.02 to 

 9.24 held it below her cephalothorax with her third pair of legs, revolv- 

 ing it in this position with her palpi, and spun upon its sm^face with 

 abdomen flexed vertically dowmw^ard. Thus was formed a perfect 

 globular cocoon, white in color. 



(2) $ No. 228 was observed at the close of the cocooning, which was 

 like that of the preceding case. 



(3) 9 No. 229 did not spin the bas? of her cocoon directly upon 

 the floor of the cage, but upon a scaffolding of threads inclined at a 

 slight angle to the floor and joined to the wall. From 11.03 to 11.17 

 A.M. she was occupied in spinning the marginal wall, from 11.18 to 

 11.22| in the oviposition, from 11.23 to 11.58 in making the covering 

 (in the first part of which she elevated her spinnerets and did not 

 brush them, thus preventing them from adhering to the viscid drop), 

 from 11.58 to 12.02^ in tearing the cocoon loose, and from 12.05 to 

 12.30 in spinning upon the cocoon while held beneath her bod3\ 



These three were the onhvnormal cocoon-makings observed. This 

 species is peculiar in sometimes making the base of the cocoon without 

 a preliminary scaffolding. 



All the other cases resulted disastrously, due either to the spinnerets 

 of the mother becoming clogged with the viscid substance surrounding 

 the eggs, or, in most of the cases, to her making the mistake, when 

 tearing the cocoon loose from the floor, of tearing the cover from 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



the base, thereby leaving the egg mass exposed. In all these cases 

 the first part of the cocooning and the oviposition proceeded normally ; 

 the mistake was in making the cover or in tearing the cocoon loose. 

 And once a mistake in the progress was started none of these indi- 

 viduals were able to rectify it, though one tried for a few moments to 

 spin over the rent in the cocoon, and each in conclusion chewed up 

 either the imperfect cocoon or the eggs ; when the cover was torn off 

 the eggs, the spider would very frequently chance to break some of 

 the latter, and once she tasted their contents she would eat them. 

 They would seem perplexed after a cover had separated from the base, 

 would remain still a long while, would feel with the palpi first the cover 

 and then the egg mass on the base ; usually they would take the isolated 

 cover beneath the body and spin upon it there, as they do with a 

 normal cocoon, but did so irregularly. An isolated cocoon cover was 

 never carried attached to the spinnerets more than a short time. One 

 spider had made her cocoon perfect except for a break at one point 

 between the cover and the base; this resulted in an elongated, irregu- 

 larly conical cocoon, which she dropped from her spinnerets after a 

 few days. 



Now the reason for such abnormal cocoons seems to be in a mistake 

 made in tearing the cocoon loose ; but there is still a reason back of this 

 one, at least for some of the cases. It was my custom with these 

 spiders, as with the other Lycosids, to put a drop of water upon the 

 floor of their cages every day or two, for them to drink. Three of 

 the miscarried cocoons whose making was observed, were commenced 

 by spinning over the surface of this drop of water. The water in some 

 way mingled with the silk of the cocoon, and at least contributed to 

 making it a failure. Why they should spin over the water I cannot 

 say, except that perhaps the feeling to the touch of the surface of the 

 water may simulate the feeUng of a silken layer, and so awaken reflexes 

 to spin at that place. In any case, all the Lycosids and one Philo- 

 dromid, which chanced to lay the base of their cocoons upon a water 

 surface, made a failure of these cocoons. But in no other species have 

 I experienced such a high percentage of failures as in Lycosa stonei. 



The number of cocoons, and the dates, were as follows: 9 No. 36, 

 June 6, a failure; § No. 165, June 25, a failure; 9 No. 18-4, June 29, a 

 failure; 9 No. 227, June 27, July 16, both failures; 9 No. 228, June 25, 

 July 14, the second one a failure; 9 No. 229, June 29, a perfect cocoon, 

 but cut open too soon by the mother, so that the eggs rolled out; 

 9 No. 230, June 27, July 14, both failures; 9 No. 231, June 22, a 

 perfect cocoon, but the mother destroyed it. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Care of the Young. — The mother carries the cocoon attached to her 

 spinnerets, bites it open around the equator to allow the young to 

 escape, then carries the latter upon her body for a few days. 



Parasites. — One male and six females died from the effects of an 

 endoparasitic dipterous larva. One spider contained two of these 

 parasites, the others one each. After the parasite, whose bulk 

 nearly equals that of the body of the spider, has eaten away 

 most of the soft parts of the spider, it emerges through a hole 

 it makes in the wall of the abdomen of the spider, and this 

 emergence kills the host. It is strange that these spiders should 

 live so long with such a huge parasite within them. A short time 

 before the parasite escapes the spider acts in a peculiar manner, 

 walking about spasmodically and often spinning aimlessly. The 

 most remarkable case of this kind was the following: 9 No. 237 

 occupied July 3 in spinning a completely closed, oblong sack, with a 

 ength of 30 mm. and a greatest depth of 20 mm. This silken sack 

 was placed in the angle between two vertical walls and the roof of the 

 cage, and its contours were rounded where not in contact with the 

 glass. This completed around her, she remained in it until the evening, 

 when the large parasite emerged. An indirect explanation may be that 

 Ihe parasite irritated the nervous centres governing her spinning 

 apparatus, she was thus instigated to spin, and it was merely a coin- 

 cidence that she chanced to surround herself with a sack. 



Two of the parasitic larvae which emerged I kept until they perfected 

 and developed into winged imagos. ^ly friend, Mr. Charles W. John- 

 son, identified them as Acrocerids. 



lycosa ocreata pulchra Montg. 



Individuals observed, males: No. 91, captured May IS, killed by 9 No. 186, 

 June 12; No. 110, captured May 19, killed May .31; No. 170, captured May 31, 

 killed by 9 No. 171, June 7. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 92, captured May IS, moult Juh' 12. killed 

 July 12; No. Ill, captured May 19, killed May 31; No. 171, captured May 31, 

 escaped June 13; No. 186, captured June 10, still living; No. 317, captured 

 July 14 (then with a cocoon), died October 4. 



Moult. — On July 12 9 No. 92 was found on the floor of her cage, 

 evidently dead; she was put in alcohol, but then moved vigorously, 

 and the old skin on the dorsal side of her thorax separated off. Accord- 

 ingly she was in the quiescent state of a beginning moult. The remark- 

 able point of this moult was that on June 3 she had copulated — i.e. 

 a copulation had preceded the last moult. 



Mating. — The following cases were seen: 



(1) 9 No. 92. d^ No. 91 was placed with her for three hours on 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



the night of ]\Iay IS, but there was no attempt at mating; this was 

 repeated during two hours on the following night, as also on ]\Iay 28 

 and May 31. At S.IO P.^I., June 3, the same male was again intro- 

 duced. She moved about at intervals, he avoiding her, up to 9.12, 

 Then I chanced to look at another cage for half a minute, and when 

 I looked back found the pair in copula. The position was the one 

 usual for this genus, he above her with his head pointed toward the 

 posterior end of her abdomen and his three anterior pairs of legs holding 

 her tightly; his first patelkie were just behind her fourth femora, his 

 second patellse behind her third femora, his third patella? behind her 

 second femora. Only one palpus Avas inserted at a time; when his 

 right palpus was used his head was turned obliquely over the right 

 side of her body; when his left was used, over the left side. The 

 sequence of usage of the palpi, the time, extent, and the number of 

 times each was inserted before the other was used, was as follows 

 (using the abbreviations r and I for right and left palpus respectively) : 

 r, 9.13-9.13*, the number of times not noted; 1, 9.13^-9.14^, 3;r, 

 9.14^-9.15^ 3; 1, 9.15^-9.17, 4; r, 9.17-9.19, 5; 1, 9.19-9.21, 4; r, 9.21- 

 9.23i, 5; 1, 9.23*-9.26f, 6; r, 9.26|-9.29, 5; 1, 9.29-9.33, 6; r, 9.33-9.37, 

 4; 1, 9.37-9.41, 5; r, 9.41-9.43, 2; 1, 9.43-9.47, 3; r, 9.47-9.50, 3; 1, 

 9.50-9.53, 2 ; r, 9.53-10.02, 4 ; 1, 10.02-10.04^, 2. He made each palpal 

 insertion by reaching the palpus down and rubbing it against her 

 epigynum, and while it was inserted a large sac evaginated from the 

 side of the palpal organ; the palpus was kept inserted until this sac 

 collapsed, a period of about 15 seconds in the earher part of the copu- 

 lation, and of 30-40 seconds in the latter part; then the palpus was 

 withdrawn and rubbed against his mandibles. At the end of the 

 copulation (which had lasted 52 minutes) the male rose and walked 

 off, immediately proceeding to the act of sperm-induction. 



(2) 9 No. Ill was immature, and whend^ No. 110 was placed with 

 her they avoided each other. 



(3) 9 No. 171. d No. 170 was placed in her cage May 31, and again 

 on June 1 and 3, but no mating followed. On June 7 the same male 

 was introduced at 8.49 P.^I. From then until 8.51 they were motion- 

 less with their legs touching, when each backed off a little, he then 

 in his characteristic attitude of defense, wdth his first pair of legs 

 drawn up and back so that their patellae touched the top of his cepha- 

 lothorax. At 8.52 he quivered these legs, she made a step toward 

 him, then both remained still with uplifted fore-legs. At 8.54 she 

 made another short step toward him, not aggressively, i.e., without 

 uplifted fore-legs, but he backed off a little as before. At 8.55 he 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



made a short jump upon her, and quickly got into copulatory attitude, 

 she motionless in his embrace. Their position was as in the case of 

 9 No. 92. Xc^ No. 91; the act lasted from 8.55 to 10.22 P.M., 1 hour 

 and 27 minutes; the palpi were inserted alternately, the right 16 times 

 and the left 15 times. Then he rose, she also started up quickly^ 

 chased and killed him within a few seconds, and ate him. 



(4) 9 No. 186 was pregnant when I introduced 0' No. 91 on June 12, 

 and she killed him. 



In all these cases there was no sign of a courtship on the part of the 

 male; after touching the female, he would raise liis fore-legs in defensive 

 attitude, and if she was desirous she would approach him with lowered 

 fore-legs, otherwise she would try to kill him. Now there is a notice- 

 able secondary sexual difference : the tibiae of the first pair of legs of 

 the male only are covered thickly ^\ith long, vertically implanted 

 black bristles, making them look like miniature test-tube brushes. 

 When the male stands before the female with these legs flexed, as he 

 does, with the patellse close to the sides of his cephalothorax and his 

 body crouched near the ground, the tibiae are more horizontal than 

 inclined upward. This, then, is not the best attitude to exhibit them 

 to the female; they would be best shown off if they were directed 

 vertically upward. On this account, this bristling of the tibiae can 

 hardly be regarded as a sexual ornament that is exhibited to charm 

 the female. Further, it may be noted that this position of the first 

 pair of legs is also assmned by the female when roughly handled or 

 frightened; it is an attitude of defense of the species, not of sexual 

 exhibition. These bristles are possessed only by the mature males. 

 I could not determine that they serve any particular piurpose, though 

 certainly they give these legs a firmer hold upon the abdomen of the 

 female during copulation. 



Sperm-induction. — c? No. 91, immediately after his copulation with 

 ? No. 92 on June 3, moved to another corner of her cage and spun 

 upon the floor from 10.11 to 10.15. Then as he was interrupted by 

 her approach, I separated her by use of the sliding partition. He 

 commenced spinning again at 10.19, at the angle of a wall and the 

 floor, brushing his spinnerets to and fro upon the glass, on the floor 

 and on the wall, all the time beating the tips of his palpi upon the 

 overspun area. This continued up to 10.32, when a fine covering of 

 silk, barely visible with a hand lens, covered that part of the floor. 

 At_10.32 he elevated his abdomen shghtly, still standing over the silken 

 covering, and discharged a minute globule of sperm from his genital 

 orifice upon the silk sheeting. This globule rolled to the ventral 




1903.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



surface of his sternum, and he then applied the tips of his palpal organs 

 alternate^ to this part of his sternum, and rubbed them against it; 

 this was evidently the process of taking the sperm into his palpi, though 

 I could not see the drop at this time. This continued from 10.32 to 

 10.37, then he ceased, and did not repeat the process up to 11.40, when 

 I ended the observation. 



Cocooning. — This was seen only once. 9 No. 186, on June 21, at 

 11.35 P.M., was found spinning on the floor in a corner of the cage, 

 slowly and with frequent pauses. She soon ceased, but began again 

 at 1.30, and at 1.50 had made, upon a scaffolding of Hues passing from 

 the floor to the wall and inclined at an angle of 40°, a white, circular 

 silken disk, the base of the cocoon. The diameter of this base was 

 about equal to the length of her body. She continued to spin upon 

 it up to 2.27, but slowly and with frec^ient rests. In the earlier 

 portion of this time the spinnerets were brushed from side to side, 

 before backward rather than from side to side, and she rotated her body 

 but little. In the later portion she spun mainly upon the margin of 

 the base, and formed there a barely perceptible wall of curled threads 

 made by elevating her spinnerets after each stroke, and rotated her 

 body while spinning. She stood with the tips of her palpi and her 

 first and second pairs of feet upon the edge of the silken disk (base), 

 her other feet upon the surrounding scaffolding. At 2.27 she stood 

 quiet over the base with her head turned toward its highest edge, 

 discharged a large drop of yellowish fluid of viscid consistency upon 

 the centre of the cocoon base, and, while the upper surface of this 

 drop still adhered to her epigynum, dropped the ova into it one by 

 one. At 2.31^ she started to break loose from this drop, but half a 

 minute passed before she was able to do this, the surface of the drop 

 adhered to her so firmly. At 2.32 she commenced spinning the cover 

 to the egg mass with a brushing movement of the spinnerets, and, 

 except for a pause from 2.35 to 2.37^, this continued up to 2.57. Thus 

 the egg mass (within its viscid drop) was flattened down and was evenly 

 covered with silk. The time from 2.57 to 3.01 was occupied in biting 

 loose the margin of the cocoon from the surrounding scaffolding. 

 The cocoon at this stage was lenticular, and the margin of the base 

 projected beyond the cover. At 3.02 she held it beneath her cepha- 

 lothorax, holding it there with her third pair of legs and slowly 

 revolving it with her palpi and chelicera ; at the same time she spun 

 upon it, holding her abdomen bent vertically downward. She then 

 fastened it to her spinnerets and so carried it about, spun on it for 

 a short time again at 3.26, then hung it definitely to her spinnerets 

 and was not seen to spin upon it any more that day. 




72 PROCEEDINGS Of" THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



The peculiar part of the above cocooning, in comparison with 

 other Lycosids, was its slowness, pauses occupying more time than 

 the spinning itself. 



The number of cocoons, and the dates, were as follows for ? No. 186: 

 June 21, this one did not hatch, but was chewed up by the mother; 

 July 13, this also did not hatch. 



Care of the Young. — The cocoon is normally carried attached to 

 the spinnerets until it hatches. 9 No. 317, who was captured with 

 a cocoon, bit it nearly in two around the equator to allow the young 

 to escape; the young took above foiu- hours on July 15 in leaving the 

 cut cocoon to get upon her body, and the first of them left her on the 

 night of July 19. 



Lycosa scutulata Heutz. 



Individuals observed, males: X«. 232, captured June 22, moulted July 11, killed 

 by 9 No. 273, August 21 ; No. 233, captured June 22, moulted July 2 and 18, 

 killed by $ No. 271, August 25; No. 275, captured June 27, moulted July 14, 

 killed by ? No. 273, August 25. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 271, captured June 27, moulted July 1 and 

 20, still living; No. 273, captured June 27, moulted July 3, 14, 31, still living; 

 No. 278, captured July 2, moulted July 3, died July 24 (then immature) ; No. 

 326, captured July 23, moulted July 24, still living. 



Moult. — 2 No. 273 was found at the conclusion of the process 

 at 10.30 P.]\I. The exuvia was upside down and attached by its 

 feet to web-lines in the upper part of the cage ; the spider was hanging 

 attached to it by her spinnerets. She did. not start moving until 

 10.42; at 10.57 she walked away from the old skin, and then remained 

 cjuiet for half an hour more. The old skin breaks by a horizontal 

 split, as in other spiders. 



Mating. — The following cases were seen : 



(1) 9 No. 273. After her penultimate but before her final moult, 

 d^ No. 232 was introduced in her cage on July 15, 16 and IS. 

 Though he was still immature he courted her on all these occa- 

 sions ; and he courted her at frequent intervals when they were 

 not together in one cage, recognizing her at a distance of several 

 inches through the glass of the cages. When courting he held his 

 body close to the ground, his last three pairs of legs stretched out 

 nearly straight, but his first pair of legs were flexed at the femoro- 

 patellar joint so that the femora were drawn back over his cephalo- 

 thorax, the tibia and tarsus held nearly horizontally in the air. Then 

 first, the palpi are swung outward and upward in alternation, each 

 five or six times; second, one leg of the first pair is pushed forward 

 and its foot tapped 6-10 times upon the floor in front of him, being 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



pushed forward a little after each tap, the abdomen twitchino- in time 

 with the tapping of the foot; and, third, the leg is withdrawn and 

 flexed over the cephalothorax again. This process occupies from 

 10 to 15 seconds, then there is a short pause, followed by a repetition 

 of the act in which the opposite leg is pushed forward. This may 

 be repeated several times without his moving from one spot, and not 

 only when he is not facing the female, but also when he is at some 

 distance from her. When he is facing her, and evidently se6s her, 

 while courting he advances toward her, taking a very short step 

 forward during each act of courtship; sometimes he may advance as 

 much as 2 or 3 millimeters at a time, sometimes again by still smaller 

 steps, the rate increasing somewhat as he comes nearer to her. In 

 case the female moves away in a course at right angles to his line 

 of vision, he quickly turns around to keep her in view, but does not 

 hasten liis slow advance. I have also seen males when in their own 

 cages, and out of all view of a female, commence to make these courting 

 motions, even to continue them for some hours; but unless the female 

 is in view, they do not advance while courting. This immature 

 female, while being courted, plainly saw him, and w^ould move away 

 from him without his touching her; she made no determined hostile 

 rushes upon him, and he did not appear afraid of her. Sometimes 

 she assumed an attitude of defense, the long axis of the body at an 

 angle to the floor with the spinnerets touching the floor, and the 

 first and second pairs of legs elevated and stretched out before her. 

 On July 31 she completed her final moult, and on August 1 the same 

 male was introduced at 9.20 P.M., and kept in until 10.30; he courted, 

 but she avoided him. He was introduced again on August 21, at 

 10.33 A.M., saw her at 10.36, and immediately commenced com-ting; 

 at 10.38 she turned to face him and touched him with her fore-legs, 

 when he immediately climbed over her head, cmljraced her and com- 

 menced the copulation. The attitude of the embrace was the same 

 as in other Lycosids — the male above the female facing in the reverse 

 direction, his head above the pedicel of her abdomen, grasping her 

 ^vhh his three anterior pairs of legs; the female with legs outsprawled, 

 and making only the movement of flexing the ventral surface of her 

 abdomen upward on its long axis so as to bring her epigynum within 

 reach of his jjalpal organ. The male lies rather obliquely across 

 the female so as to extend his palpal organ downward to reach the 

 epigynum; when he lies obliquely across her right side he cmjiloys his 

 right palpal organ only, when across her left side his left palpal organ. 

 During the time of each palpal insertion a large sac on the median 




74 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



side of the palpal tarsus swelled up, and the palpus was not withdrawn 

 until this sac had collapsed; when a palpal organ was withdrawn 

 it was each time drawn through the chelicera before it was inserted 

 again. The following figures give the details of the copulation, r and I 

 being used for right and left palpus respectiveh% and the numbers 

 giving the time duration: r, 10.39f-10.41 ; 1, 10.41-10.41i; 1, 

 10.4H-10.42; r, 10.42-10.42^; 1, 10.43-10.431; 1, 10.43^-10.44; 

 r, 10.44i-10.44f ; 1, 10.45-10.45J ; r, 10.45^-10.46 ; 1, 10.46^- 

 10.47; r, 10.47i-10.47i; r, 10.47^-10.48^; r, 10.48^-10.49; 1, 10.49^- 

 10.491; r, 10.50- 10.50^ ; 1, 10.50^-10.51; r, 10.51|-10.51| ; 

 1, 10.52-10.52i; r, 10.52i-10.53; r, 10.53i-10.54; 1, 10.54i-10.54f ; 

 1, 10.55i-10.55i; 1, 10.55f-10.56; r, 10.561-10.56f ; 1, 10.57-10.57^; 

 r, 10.57i-10.57l; 1, 10.57f-10.58f ; r, 10.58-10.58^; 1, 10.59-10.59i; 

 r, 10.59i (2 seconds); r, 10.59f-11.00; 1, ll.OOi-ll.OOf ; r, ILOOJ- 

 ll.Oli; i, ll.Oli-ll.Olf ; r, 11.02-11.02^; 1, 11.02^-11.03; r, 11.03|- 

 11.03f;l, 11.03f-11.04;r, 11.04^0-11-041 ; 1, 11.04|-11.05; r, 11.05tV 

 ll.OSi; 1. 11.051-11.06; r, 11.06i-11.06f ; 1, 11.06f-11.07; r, 11.073V 

 11.07i; h 11.07f-11.07y%; r, 11.08-11.08^; 1, 11. 08^-1 1.08|; r, 11.09- 

 11.09i; 1, 11.09i-11.09yV; r, 11. 10-11. lOJ; 1, ll.lOf-11.11; r. 11. Ill 

 ll.llf;!, 11.1H-I1.12;r, 1 1. 12^^-1 1.12^; 1, 1 1. 12^-1 1. 12^^ ; r, 11.13- 

 11.13i;l, 11.13^-11.13x^0 ;r, 11. 14-11. 14i; r, 11. 141-11. 14|;1, 11.14^%- 

 11.15i;r, 11.15i-11.15f ; 1, 11. 16-11. 16i; r. 11.16i-11.16|; r, 11.16f- 

 11.16f;l, 11. 161-11. 17TV;r, 11. 17i-11.17f; 1,11.17^-11. 18i;r, 11. 18i- 

 11.18i;r, 11.18i-11.18i;l, 11. 19-11. 19i; r, 1 1. 19^-1 1. 19| ; r, 11.20xV- 

 11.20^:1, 11.20i-11.20f ;r, 11.20|-11.21 , ; 1, 11.21i-11.21f ; r, 11.21f- 

 11.22^2 ;1, 11.22i-11.22f;r, 11.23-11.23^^; 1, 11.23i-11.23f ; r, 11.23|- 

 11.24Ji; 1, 11.24f-l 1.241; r, 1 1. 25^-1 1.25^; 1, 11.25x%-11.26i; r, 

 11.26f-11.26f;l, 11.261-11.271; r, 11.27H10 seconds) ;r, 11.271-11.28; 

 1, 11.28i-11.28f ; r, 11.29-11.29i; 1, 11.29^-11.291; r, 11.30-11.30*; r, 

 11.30^11.30i; l,11.30f-11.30|; r,11.31f-11.31f; he then revolved upon 

 her;l, 1 1. 32^-1 1.32|;r, 11.33f-11.34|-;r, 11.35f-11..36;l, 11.37-11.37f ; 

 r, 11.38|— 11.38|. Then he moved off her, when she jumped at 

 killed and ate him. On August 25 d^ No. 275 was introduced, but 

 she caught and ate him too. , 



(2) 9 No. 271 completed her final moult on July 20, and on August 

 22 c^ No. 233 was dropped upon the floor at 7.28 P.M., while she was 

 upon the wall. He saw her at a distance of 75 mm., but she was 

 placed so that she could not see him, so at 7.35 I pushed her to the 

 floor. He courted and slowly approached her ; she made an aggressive 

 movement; he dodged her but continued courting. She approached 

 and touched him, whereupon he immediately got into copulatory 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



position and commenced the coition. The postures and the mode 

 of copulation were as in the preceding case; the right palpus was 

 employed 84 times and the left 81 times. This copulation began at 

 7.38 and ended at 8.32|-, when she struggled beneath him and he 

 cautiously moved away from her, when I put him into another cage. 

 On August 25 the same male was put with her again, at 2.42 P.M. 

 He courted her steadily, though she made several jumps at him, 

 and he even followed her up the wall still courting. At 4.05 I was 

 obliged to leave, and returning at 4.28 found them in copulation, 

 which continued up to 5.03, when she struggled and he left her. She 

 did not attempt to kill him at first, and he followed her still courting; 

 but about two hours afterward she killed and ate him. 



(3) ? No. 278 was not fully mature. d^No. 275 was placed with 

 her for half an hour on July 16; they grappled, and after that re- 

 mained quiet. On July he was introduced again and began courting 

 at 5.02, as soon as he saw her, but she ran from him. 



(4) 9 No. 326 finished her final moult on July 24. d'No. 275 was 

 placed 'tt'ith her on July 25 and 26, but courted for only a short while 

 each time. There was no courtship at all on July 30 and August 22. 



There is, accordingly, in this species a decided courtship; the male 

 differs from the female in his smaller size and in the black color of 

 a portion of his fore-legs, and these legs (and the palpi also) are moved 

 in a particular manner during the courtship. Observation shows 

 that the male recognizes the female as such at a distance of at least 

 six inches. The male's approach to the female is very slow, a kind 

 of creeping, not at all similar to the vehement approach of certain other 

 Lycosids. The male will court immature females. The female, if 

 eager, gives the signal of willingness to the male by touching him lightly 

 -iv-ith her first pair of legs, when he immediately eml^races. In the 

 observed cases, with one exception, the female killed the male at the 

 end of the copulation. The peculiarity of the copulation is that the 

 right and left palj^i are inserted in the epigynum in almost strict 

 alternation, that these insertions are very brief and numerous, and 

 that the intervals between them are markedly short. One female 

 copulated twice with the same male at an interval of three days. 

 The time duration of the longest copulation watched was 59 minutes, 

 of the next longest 55 minutes. 



Cocooning.—9 No. 271 made a cocoon in the second week of Septem- 

 ber, carried it attached to her spinnerets (the normal way) and is still 

 carrying it. ? No. 273 made her cocoon during the first week of 

 September, but dropped it from her spinnerets about the 25th of that 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



month, and did not take it up again, although she frequently touched 

 it; she had not bitten it open before dropping it. The cocoons are 

 nearly globular, white or bluish; their architecture shows them to be 

 composed of two portions, a base and a cover, as in other spiders. 



Webs.— AW the males spin irregular .sheet-like webs inclined at an 

 angle of about 45° to the floor and the wall of the cage. One female 

 also slowly built up an irregular horizontal web. The other species 

 of Lycosa observed did not make such webs, but simply short lines to 

 attach themselves to the vertical glass walls of the cages. 



Lycosa nidicola Emerton. 



Care of the Young. — Six females of this large species were kept; 

 three of them were captured carrying cocoons, while one, after her 

 final moult (which was like that of other Lycosids), formed the base 

 of a cocoon upon a drop of water and oviposited upon it, but this 

 cocoon was a failure. 



The large globular cocoon is carried dependent from the spinnerets 

 until it hatches. The mother helps herself in supporting its weight, 

 sometimes by resting it partially against the tarsi of her fourth pair 

 of legs, sometimes standing with her abdomen and the third and fourth 

 pairs of legs upon the wall of the cage, whereby the cocoon rests 

 against the wall. She cuts open the cocoon to allow the escape of 

 the young, then carries the young upon her for a considerable length 

 of time, one female for 11 days, another for 13 days, another for 14 daj's 

 — longer periods than were observed in other Lycosids. The number 

 of young is also large ; in the two cases where they were counted they 

 were respectively 210 and .302 in number. The following notes may 

 be of some interest : 



9 No. 212 was seen on June 23, at 2.00 P.M., holding her cocoon 

 beneath her cephalothorax with her first and third pairs of legs and 

 her palpi, and tearing its lining with her chelicera; she had then scraped 

 away some of the superficial layer along an equatorial line, and at one 

 or two points in this line her chelicera had penetrated to the interior. 

 At 2.22 the first of the spiderlings crawled out through one of these 

 holes, and as soon as the mother felt its motion she quickly fastened 

 the cocoon to her spinnerets and waited patiently. But no more 

 spiderhngs emerging, she bit the cocoon again from 2.43 to 2.52, 

 when she suspended it again to her spinnerets. At 3.34 the second 

 and third spiderlings crawled out upon her body, and at 3.39 the fourth. 

 The mother apparently divined that the young were not emerging 

 rapidly enough, and bit the cocoon again from 3.48 to 3.55. At 

 3.59 the fifth spiderling climbed upon her, at 4.03 about eight more 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



spiderlings, and at 7.00 there were about twenty upon her. Next day 

 at 9.00 A.M. more young were still emerging, and at 3.00 P.M. she 

 dropped the cocoon (empty of young) from her spinnerets. The youno- 

 massed together upon her abdomen and cephalothorax made her 

 appear twice her natural size; she did not allow them to get upon her 

 eyes, however, but brushed them away gently with her palpi. On 

 July 2 the first of the spiderlings left her, running down her legs to 

 the ground, and on July 4, when I killed her, only five were left upon 

 her; these I endeavored to rear b}' keeping them in separate tubes, 

 but all of them died within a few days. 



? No. 211 was found on June 16, at 2.45 P.M., resting her cocoon 

 (attached to her spinnerets) upon the floor; some of the young on 

 emerging from the cocoon got upon the floor, but these quickh' climbed 

 up the legs of the mother. She dropped the cocoon next day, and 

 examination showed that she had gnawed it along its ^^■hole circum- 

 ference, but at only certain points along the line of the abrasion had 

 holes been made to the interior cavity. In this case, as in the pre- 

 ceding, the young that had left the mother's constructed a network of 

 silken lines through the cage; possibly aeronautic lines, such as young 

 Lycosids normally employ to carry them, with the help of the wind, 

 away from the home of the mother. 

 Lycosa punctulata Hentz. 



One female of this, locally rather rare, species was kept and observed 

 from June 10 until her death on August 3. 



Cocooning. — On July 1 and 2 she was found spinning upon the floor 

 of the cage. On July 3. at 11.00 A.M., I found she had quite a thick 

 sheeting over the floor and for a little distance up the sides of the 

 cage, covering an area of about 25x65 mm. At 1.33 P.I\1. on that 

 day I found she had constructed an oval disk of white silk (cocoon 

 base) with a diameter al)out equal to her body length; this base was 

 placed upon the preliminary scaffolding in the corner, and inclined to 

 the floor at a slight angle. From 1.33 to 1.46 she spun a silken wall 

 upon the margin of this base, though when finished it was barely 

 visible to the naked eye. She composed it of looped threads, made 

 by uphfting her spinnerets high at each stroke. She then stood over 

 the centre of the base, and from 1.47 to 1.50 there fell upon the center 

 of the base from her genital aperture a clear drop of viscitl fluid, into 

 which fell in succession a number of pale yellowish ova; a .second 

 smaller drop from 1.51 to 1.52; and from 1.52 to 1.53 five small drops 

 in succession, each enclosing one ovum. All the drops merged together 

 upon the cocoon base, but the whole mass was small in proportion to 




78 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



her volume, and evidently she had not deposited all the ova ■v\ithin 

 her since her abdomen was still quite distended. At 1.53^ she com- 

 menced spinning the covering, with high strokes of the spinnerets 

 laying do^m threads that were looped, since a second attachment 

 of the spinnerets would be close to a first; but she placed very 

 few of these over the egg mass, spinning mostly upon the margin 

 of the cocoon base and even upon the foundation beyond it. She 

 spun vers^ slowly, occupied most of the time in pauses, and occasion- 

 ally walked about the cage. At 2.23, when the egg was only imper- 

 fectly covered -^dth a thin silk layer, she loosened with her chelicera 

 about a quarter of the edge of the base from its moorings. She rested, 

 and at 2.27 seized the covering of the egg mass, pulled it, then rested, 

 holding it in her jaws. From 2.35 to 2.37 she spim again upon the 

 margin of the base, then turned about, seized the egg mass with her 

 jaws, began to eat the eggs, and devoured them all by 3.10. Finally, 

 with her cheUcera she tore the base completely loose, and ate up that 

 too. 



Though this cocooning was a miscarriage, due to faulty oviposition 

 and to insufficient covering to the eggs, j^et the method followed 

 would indicate that this species normally cocoons like others of the 

 genus. 

 Lycosa lepida (Keys.). 



Individuals observed, males : Xo. 1.50, captured May 26, died early in Septem- 

 ber ; No. 200, captured June 10, died August 15; Xo. 201, captured June 10, 

 died July 26. 



Individuals observed, females: Xo. 1S3, captured June 10, died October 12; 

 Xo. 193, captured June 18, moulted June 18, died October 18; No. 194, captured 

 June 10, died July 5; Xo. 196, captured June 10, stiU living; No. 197, captured 

 June 10, still living ; No. 203, captured June 10, with a cocoon, killed August 3 ; 

 No. 214, captured June 10, with a cocoon, died in November; No. 268, cap- 

 tured June 27, died October 2. 



Moult. — The old skin splits along the horizontal line as in other 

 spiders. 



Mating.— d No. 150 was introduced to 9 9 Nos. 194, 268, 203, 193, 

 197 ;(^ No. 200 to ? S Nos. 194, 197, 203, 268 ;d' No. 201 to 9 9 Nos. 

 196, 194. No copulation occurred in any case before or after cocoon- 

 ing, and all the females except two were pregnant when captured. 



The following observations point to a simple courtship on the part of 

 the male, who is more brightly colored and considerably smaller than 

 the female: 



(1)9 No. 194. When cJ' No. 201 was placed with her for the second 

 time, he got behind her and shook his fore-legs slowly in the air, these 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 79 



legs held outstretched before him and elevated only slightl}'' from 

 the ground. This is an action of neither aggression nor fear; aggres- 

 sion is evidenced by standing high upon the legs and stretching 

 out the first pair of legs without shaking them ; fear, by holding the 

 body low, and flexing the first pair of legs at the tibial joint back over 

 the cephalothorax. 



(2) 9 No. 196. 6' Xo. 201 was put in her cage at 4.47 P.M., June 12. 

 At 6.00 P.M. they faced each other at a distance of about 50 mm. ; his 

 body was flat upon the ground, and at intervals he raised his fore-legs, 

 wliich were stretched out on the floor before him, and shook them 

 tremulously in the air. After several repetitions of this movement 

 he approached her slowly and touched her, making a short step for- 

 ward with each shaking of his legs, but she rebuffed him. 



Cocooning. — The following cases of normal cocooning were seen: 



(1) ? No. 183 had been caught in a test-tube, and before she was 

 removed to a cage she had made her cocoon there. At 1.10 P.M., 

 when first noticed, she had already laid her eggs upon a silken cocoon 

 base, the diameter of which about equalled the length of her body, and 

 was then spinning the cover by brushing the spinnerets from side to 

 side, at the same time rotating her body over it. From 1.21 to 1.23 

 she occupied herself with biting the margin of the lenticular cocoon 

 loose from its scaffolding At 1.25 she held the cocoon beneath her 

 cephalothorax, when she was placed in a larger bowl for better obser- 

 vation. There she walked about with it attached to her spinnerets 

 until 1.28, then held it beneath her cephalothorax again with the use 

 of her third pair of legs, and while rotating it with her chelicera 

 and palpi she spun upon it wuth the abdomen bent downward. This 

 continued until 1.55, when she attached the now round cocoon to her 

 spinnerets. 



(2) 9 No. 196, on June 14, at 5.45 P.M., commenced spinning on 

 the floor of the cage wdth many interruptions and uncertainly. At 

 6.55 she commenced again in a corner of the cage, brushing her spin- 

 nerets over the floor and the wall, and turning her body sometimes 

 from right to left and sometimes in the reverse direction. Gradually 

 her spinning became more regular, with fewer pauses, and she con- 

 structed a nearly circular sheet of close web elevated from tlic floor 

 to the wall and with a central depression extending to the floor. Up 

 to 7.37 she spun upon this foundation the base of the cocoon, a white, 

 circular disk a little less in diameter than the length of her body, this 

 base (like the supporting scaffolding) rising from the floor to the wall 

 at an ande of 30°. Then from 7.37 to 7.54 she occupied herself 




so PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



with making a marginal wall upon the base, and did this by lay- 

 ing down looped threads (made by high strokes of the spinnerets) ; 

 the maximum height of this wall about equaled the diameter of her 

 abdomen, and it was not quite vertical, but inclined slightly toward 

 the centre. She then stood over the base with her head toward its 

 highest margin, and from 7.54 to 7.57 oviposited upon its centre; 

 from her genital aperture fell first a large drop of clear, viscid sub- 

 stance, then a smaller drop containing one ovum, then a large 

 drop into which fell in rapid succession 17 ova: finally a slowly- 

 exuding, thread-like stream of the viscid substance, contained in 

 which were ova arranged one behind the other. All this fluid sub- 

 stance was kept from overflowing the base by the marginal wall. 

 Next, from 7.57 to 8.12, she spun a cover over the egg mass, plastering 

 thread after thread upon it ; the cover was of less diameter than the 

 base. From 8.12^ to 8.17 she bit loose the margin of the cocoon, and 

 when a cut had been made pried up the edge with her palpi. The 

 loosened cocoon was now of a lenticular shape, and she took it below 

 her thorax (not holding it off the ground, it was too large for that), and 

 revolved it in that position with her palpi, chelicera and third pair of 

 legs ; she spun vigorously upon it so that it soon assumed the definite 

 globular form, and only a line around it marked the point of union of 

 the cover to the base. The cocoon was at first white, but became 

 bluish on contact with water. 



The other cocoons made resulted in failures, though the commence- 

 ment in each of the two cases observed was normal. Thus ? 

 No. 196, in making her second cocoon, spun the circular base, built a 

 marginal wall (of a height of 2 mm.) upon it, oviposited upon it from 

 8.17 to 8.20 (71 ova dropping in succession into one large drop of viscid 

 substance), and spun the cover from 8.20 to 8.24. Then she changed 

 the normal process, and for a minute stopped to loosen a portion 

 of the cocoon from the ground, then spun upon the cover again from 

 8.27 to 8.34. She then took the cocoon beneath her body and began 

 spinning upon it, but the covering had been made too thin ; she was evi- 

 dently puzzled by feeling the ova through it, and worked hesitatingly; 

 she hung the misshapen cocoon to her spinnerets, but before next morn- 

 ing had devoured it and the enclosed ova. She had not been able to 

 compensate for the initial mistake of spinning too thin a cover. 9 No. 

 268 started to spin upon a drop of water that I placed on the floor of 

 the cage; I drained off tlie water and she ceased. Next day I put 

 in another drop; she first spun over it, then oviposited on it, but the 

 water caused the ova to disintegrate and she finished bv eating them. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



The water evidently instigated her to the coeooning, yet in natural 

 conditions these spiders do not appear at all aquatic, for I have 

 found them on rather dry ground under stones and logs. 



The number of cocoons made, and the dates, were as follows: 



(1) 9 No. 183: June 11, hatched July 5. 



(2) ? No. 193 : July 25, a failure. 



(3) 9 No. 196: June 14, hatched July 10; July 2, a failure. Two 

 cocoons. 



(4) ? No. 197: June 12, dropped by the mother and did not hatch; 

 July 13, dropped also after the mother had bitten it open prematurely ; 

 August 10, dropped August 30. Three cocoons. 



(5) 9 No. 203 was caught with a cocoon that hatched July 1. 



(6) 9 No. 214 was caught with a cocoon that hatched July 5. 



(7) 9 No. 268: July 20, a failure. 



Care of the Young. — As in other species of the genus, the cocoon 

 is carried by the mother attached to the spinnerets, and she bites 

 it open to allow the young to emerge, when they get upon her body, 

 and about a day afterward she drops the cocoon. Sometimes, as 

 the above list of cases shows, the mother drops the cocoon before it 

 hatches ; in all such cases this appears to be due to the mother biting 

 open the cocoon prematurely, and true to her instinct she drops the 

 cocoon after opening it ; when the cocoon is opened too early, the ova 

 do not develop further. The mother is very tenacious of the cocoon. 

 I have seized a cocoon, when attached to the mother, with forceps 

 and shaken it, with the mother, violently in the air, without dislodging 

 her hold upon it ; there is, in the case of older cocoons, a very hard and 

 thick thread attaching them to the spinnerets. One mother I watched 

 when she was bending down to drink ; about half of the young upon her 

 climbed down to the water and drank of it also, but quickly returned 

 to her when she conuuenced to move away. In changing this mother 

 from one cage to another, a great mass of young was dislodged from her 

 back and fell upon the floor. Some of these young ran about and 

 would not return to the mother when they came in contact with her, 

 but the remainder clung together in a mass upon the floor. The 

 mother seemed excited, yet when she touched the mass of young she 

 would remain by it only a short extent of time, and did not aid the 

 young to return to her. But next day all were \\\nm her l)ack again. 

 Lycosa verisimilis Montg. 



Parasites.— The type specimen of the female of this species was kept 

 alive some time, until she was killed l)y tlie escape of a large species 

 of Mermis. Three days preceding she droj^j^ed the large globular co- 

 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



coon that she was carrying attached to her spinnerets, and 6 parasitic 

 wingless hymenoptera emerged from two circiilar holes in the cocoon ; 

 they had killed all the young spiders that had been contained in it. 

 Prof. WilHam H. Ashmead, Assistant Curator in the U. S. National 

 Museum, kindty identified this parasite as Pezomachus dimidiaius 

 Cresson (an Ichneumonid).^ 



Lycosa charonoides Montg. 



Care of the Young. — The type individual of this species was caught 

 Maj^ 31 with a globular cocoon hung to her spinnerets; the cocoon 

 was apparently newly made because it was light in color, and on the 

 evening of the same day she held it below her and spun upon it in 

 the manner characteristic of the genus. On June 151 found the cocoon 

 lying on the floor, ^^ith a hole made by the mother along about a third 

 of the equator; -^-ithin the cocoon were about 20 dead spiderlings, 

 while a number of living ones were clustered upon her abdomen and 

 one or two running upon the floor; the young left her back gradually, 

 some remaining upon her until June 26. 



Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton. PI. V, ligs. 8, 9. 



Individuals observed, males: No. 32, captured May 4, died next daj-; No. 35, 

 captured May 4, killed May 15; No. 38, captured May 5, died May 29; No. 55, 

 captured May 6, died Maj^ 15; No. 56, captured Maj- 6, escaped May 12; No. 59, 

 captured May 6, killed May 19; No. 60, captured May 6, escaped May 18; No. 62, 

 captured May 6, killed May 11; No. 64, captured May 6, died (from thirst) June 

 5; No. 172, captured June 1, died June 11. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 33, captured May 4, died August 15; No. 54, 

 captured May 6, died August 15; No. 57, captured ISIaj' 6, still living; No. 58, 

 captured Maj' 6, died August 9; No. 61, captured May 6, died June 14; No. 63, 

 captured May 6, died August 15; No. 65, captured May 6, died August 15; 

 No. 152, captured May 26, died (from effects of parasitic Mermis) June 11; 

 No. 177, captured June 1, escaped August 9. 



Mating. — This was studied by placing a male with a female only 

 dviring the time of observation, keeping them separated at other 

 times ; a partition cage was used, or else the male was carefully dropped 

 into the cage of the female. 



This is the most abundant local Lycosid, and by collecting vigorous 

 individuals in the spring, when the males are very numerous, and 

 selecting those females which are not gravid, the courtship may be 

 readily observed. 



^ Prof. Ashmead, in a personal communication, states that a considerable 

 number of parasitic hymenoptera have been reared from the eggs and cocoons 

 of spiders, and names the genera Bceus, Aeolus, Acolvides, Polysphincta, Epiurus, 

 Pimpla. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



The advances are made by the male, and there is a distinct court- 

 ship process, which a vigorous male may maintain for two or three 

 hours at a time with few interruptions when the female is recalcitrant. 

 In natural conditions a large number of individuals often occur 

 together on a limited area of ground, such as a moist open spot in a 

 meadow ; here probably the male does not make so prolonged a court- 

 ship, but on finding one female not eager or aggressive he probably 

 seeks another. The males are somewhat smaller than the females 

 and considerably weaker, but they are also quicker, so that they can 

 generally escape from an aggressive female. There is a marked 

 sexual color difference, the male being deep black and the female 

 more brownish. Gravid females are always hostile to males, and 

 once that such a female has made a determined rush at a male he 

 usually ceases to court her, or when he recommences does so hesi- 

 tatingly. The male recognizes a female as such immediately on touch; 

 whether he recognizes her by sight alone I cannot tell. In courting 

 a fleeing female the male appears to follow her mainly by sight, but 

 even then he does not appear to find her by sight unless she is moving; 

 often in his excited march for her he will run right past her without 

 seeing her. But when one of his legs touches a part of her, he immedi- 

 ately reacts by quickly moving back a short distance and, after a 

 brief interval, commences his courting motions with great vigor. 

 These motions he will also continue sometimes for a considerable 

 period after the female has been removed from the cage. In a double 

 cage with a transparent glass partition, a male in one compartment 

 and a female in the other, I have not seen a male court a female, 

 though he certainly sees her through the partition; probabh', then, it 

 is touch of a female that impels him to courting activity. 



The courtship motions are as follows: The male stands with his 

 body weU elevated above the ground (an attitude that a female takes 

 only when she is aggressive) on his three posterior pairs of legs, his 

 head higher than his abdomen, so that the long axis of his body describes 

 an angle of 30°-40° with the surface of the ground. He waves his palp 

 upward in the air (i.e., straightening them out before his head) and 

 flexes them outward, from one to three times, then draws his body 

 slightly backward and downward, rapidly waving in the air the out- 

 stretched palpi and first pair of legs, and spasmodically shaking the 

 whole body with the violence of the movement. The vehemence 

 and to some extent the attitudes reminds one forcibly of a small 

 terrier barking at a cat. The movement of the palpi exhibits most 

 clearly their relatively huge, black terminal joints. When the male 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



is timid, or not very eager, he may wave only his palpi, and these 

 slowly and alternately instead of together. The male repeats these 

 motions several times, usually becoming more vehement each time, 

 then moves a step nearer the female, repeats them again, moves nearer 

 again, so that in a short time his outstretched shaking fore-legs come 

 in contact with the female. A virgin female usually flees before 

 him before accepting him, he eagerly following and repeating his 

 motions, even when he is not facing her. A female who has been 

 fertilized and is pregnant, first menaces him by slowly uplifting and 

 straightening out her first pair of legs toward him ; and if this does 

 not suffice to make him desist, she jumps at him when he comes too 

 close. In the latter case the male frequently escapes by leaping 

 over the female. The male seems the very incarnation of violent 

 passion, and his whole body shakes with it; only when the female 

 is so aggressive as to shake him, does he show distinct fear and cease 

 his motions; and if a male has been so cowed by a female, and is imme- 

 diately placed with another female, he will at first avoid the latter 

 also, this being a good example of memory. 



The follo^\dng data will show the length of time of such courtship, 

 the male in each case having been removed from the female at the 

 end of the period of observation, and it being understood that copu- 

 lations were enacted only when stated. 



9 No. 33. Put in cJ* No. 32 for nearly two hours on May 4, no court- 

 ship, d' No. 38 for an hour next day, no courtship. 6^ No. 38 in the 

 evening of May 5, courtship for one hour. ]\Iay 6, c? No. 38, court- 

 ship for half an hour in the morning, but none in the evening, d^ No. 

 38, courtship of one hour on May 7. The same c? would not court 

 on the following day, though she walked over him twice (evidently 

 an invitation to copulation) ; immediately afterward c? No. 35 was put 

 in and courted for half an hour, then repeated it at intervals. May 11, 

 d" No. 35 was put in for the whole evening, but there was no courtship, 

 although she displayed no hostility; nor would he court on May 12. 

 On May 12 c? No. 64 courted with few interruptions from 1.40 to 3.00 

 P.M., and from 4.00 to 4.35. May 13 and 14 d No. 64 courted inter- 

 mittently. May 15 he courted actively from 8.00 to 10.15 P.M., 

 again on May 16 from 3.00 to 6.00 P.M., on May 17 from 7.20 to 

 10.00 P.M., on May 18 from 7.00 to 10.00 P.M., on May 19 from 

 2.00 to 4.00 P.M. and from 8.15 to 11.15 P.M., on May 24 for two hours 

 in the morning, on May 25 two hours in the afternoon. May 28 for about 

 an hour, May 31 for more than an hour. After that this female be- 

 came still more aggressive, and made her cocoon on June 10; she had 

 evidently been fertihzed before her capture. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Data could also be given, and I have them in full, for the other 

 females kept, but this' case is sufficient to show the persistence of the 

 male in his courtship, and the preference of the female for particular 

 males. 



The process of copulation was seen only twice, namely 9 No. 63 

 with (^(5" Nos. 62 and 173. May 8 I placed 6" No. 63 in her cage 

 at 5.00 P.M., and at 5.15 he commenced his courtship and continued 

 it until 6.00, pursuing her about. About 6.05 they came face to face, 

 and remained so motionless until 6.24. Then he slowly reached out 

 his first pair of legs and touched her abdomen, when she depressed 

 her body to the floor (otherwise in her usual attitude) ; he walked over 

 her head from in front and took a position upon her so that his head 

 was pointed in the reverse direction of hers, his chelicera immediately 

 above the pedicel of her abdomen, while the pedicel of his was above 

 her head. The female with her head almost touching the floor, 

 abdomen slightly deflected upward, and legs flexed rather closely to 

 the body; the male embracing her closely around the cephalothorax 

 with his second and third pairs of legs, the feet of the other pairs rest- 

 ing on the ground. This embrace was maintained and the female 

 remained motionless through the whole process, from 6.25 to 6.34. 

 The palpi were applied to the epigynum one at a time, as follows: 

 The long axis of the male made a small angle with that of the female 

 (both seen directly from above), so that his head region came to lie 

 a little to one side of as well as above the pedicel of her abdomen. 

 When his left side was thus turned toward the left side of her body, 

 both his palpi were thrown over on that side of her also, but only the 

 left palpvis (the one closest to her) was applied; when his right side 

 was inclined toward her right side, both his palpi were also placed on 

 that side of her, but only the right one applied. When he used the 

 right palpus she flexed her abdomen on its long axis so as to bring 

 the right epigynal aperture more dorsal; when he used the left palpus, 

 she would similarly flex the left side of her abdomen dorsad. One 

 palpus would be applied to the epigynum several times in succession, 

 after each application being withdrawn and worked with his chelicera ; 

 then the other palpus would be similarly used, after he had inclined 

 his body toward her other side. The palpi were thus alternated sev- 

 eral times. At 6.34 the female rose suddenly, assumed a hostile 

 attitude, and the male ran off. 



On June 1 I introduced cJ^ No. 173 at 2.38 P.M. to the same female. 

 He started immediately to court; she for a minute held her first pair 

 of legs elevated in the air (attitude of guard and hostility), then de- 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



pressed them and also bent her head to the floor (copulation attitude), 

 but he discontinued courtship, and she moved away. At 2.42 he 

 courted again, and she again depressed her head to the ground (her 

 fourth pair of legs stretched out behind her, her other legs flexed to 

 her sides) at a distance of half an inch from him ; he then faced her for 

 two minutes without courting, but he recommenced his courting at 2.44, 

 and at 2.45 walked upon and embraced her, in the attitude preA^ously 

 described. The left palpus was then applied to the epigynum 6 times 

 from 2.45 to 2.46, then the right palpus (on the right side of her body) 

 18 times from 2.46 to 2.52^. On each application the palpus was 

 first rubbed against her epigynum, and when inserted a large clear 

 sac, an evaginated portion of the palpus, swelled up and slowly (in 

 20 to 25 seconds) collapsed ; after its collapse he withdrew the palpus 

 and rubbed it against his chehcera for 2 or 3 seconds, then applied 

 it again to the epigynum. At 2.52^ the female rose quickly, shook 

 him off, and stood in hostile attitude, repelling several further attempts 

 to copulate. Xo oviposition intervened between these two acts of 

 copulation. 



Cocooning. — This process was observed several times. In captivity 

 it takes place at night, generaUy in the hours between 9.00 P.M. and 

 midnight; though the earhest preliminary spinning frequently begins 

 some 24 or more hours before. The foUowing case is a good illustra- 

 tion of the method as observed in glass cages without earth : 



? No. 54, on May 19, at 9.20 P.M., was first seen to be spinning, 

 fastening threads (inclined at an angle of about 45°) from one vertical 

 wall to the floor, and from the opposite vertical wall to the floor; at 

 each wall was then a line of such parallel threads about a quarter of 

 an inch long. This was a rather slow process, she taking often several 

 seconds to attach each thread, and sometimes pausing to rest for a 

 quarter of a minute. At 9.50 she started spinning the base of the 

 cocoon on the scaffolding of lines placed against the right wall, not 

 again returning to that on the left wall. The circular disk constitu- 

 ting the "base'' of the cocoon was made by spinning upon a circular 

 area of the scaffolding, at about the middle level of the latter; it was 

 made discoidal in form by the female pressing the tips of her palpi 

 upon one edge of the area, spinning upon the opposite edge, then 

 rotating her body on its middle point as an axis. This was first done 

 very slowly, but at 9.59 she began spinning more regularly, brush- 

 ing her spinnerets (without elevating them) back and forth over 

 the area, at the same time rotating her body, so that gradually a 

 well-marked white disk was laid down upon the scaffolding, its 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



diameter not quite equalling the length of her body; the scaffolding 

 around the disk served as a support for her feet. The making of 

 this base continued until 10.24. Then she stood above it with her head 

 directed toward its upper end, and deposited upon the centre of the 

 base from her genital aperture a large viscid drop of a transparent 

 fluid; and into this drop, the upper surface of which still adhered to 

 her body while its lower surface rested on the silken disk, there fell 

 in succession about 13 large ova, easily seen by their yellow color 

 within the viscid drop. This discharge of drop and ova did not 

 exceed two minutes. Then at 10.26, before the upper surface of the 

 drop had become fully loosened from her genital aperture, she com- 

 menced rapidly spinning across the drop, brushing the spinnerets 

 from side to side and occasionally rotating the position of the body 

 until she covered it with an evenly thick coating of white silk. This 

 coating compressed the drop to the form of a flattened hemisphere; 

 the supporting base being still flat, and quite a broad margin of it 

 not covered by the upper covering of the cocoon. At 10.40 she com- 

 menced to bite the cocoon loose from the scaffolding, taking about 4 

 minutes in the process; when completely loosened it had the form of 

 a biconvex lens. She then seized and held it beneath her cephalo- 

 thorax with her third pair of legs, which like a pair of axles were first 

 applied to its rounded sides, and revolved it by pressing on its edge 

 with her palpi. While doing so, she held her abdomen bent verti- 

 cally downward, so as to bring the spinnerets against the edge (equator) 

 of the cocoon, and by spinning cemented down the overlapping 

 margin of the base of the cocoon to its cover; it will be recalled 

 that the covering of the cocoon was of less diameter than the base. 

 Gradually and slowly the cocoon was rotated in other directions also, 

 stiU held below the cephalothorax above the floor, the extended 

 spinnerets brushing back and forth across its surface. At 10.50 the 

 cocoon was observed to have changed from a glistening white to a 

 lead-blue color (its final color is dark blue or dark gray) ; this may 

 be produced by a difference in the silk, or perhaps by a secretion 

 from the mouth. At 11.12, when I ceased observations, she was still 

 busy spinning upon the cocoon. It had now become much more 

 nearly globular, the definitive shape, and trace of a line around its 

 greatest diameter was all left to show that it had been formed of 

 two halves cemented together. 



The first cocoon of 9 No. 57 was made on May 12. At 4.50 P.M. 

 she was found working upon the discoidal base (there had been no 

 trace of it less than an hour before), and continued until 5.06. Then 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



followed the oviposition, lasting not quite 2 minutes, in exactly the 

 same manner as in the preceding case, except that 33 or 34 ova were 

 discharged into the viscid drop. The ova sank one by one into this 

 drop so as gradually to fill it and increase its size, but by virtue of its 

 viscidity it still retained its globular form and surrounded them all.' 

 At 5.08 she started spinning the cover, finished it at 5.20, and in the 

 time from 5.21 to 5.25 cut the cocoon loose from its scaffolding by 

 tearing the surrounding threads with her chelicera. She then brought 

 the cocoon below her cephalothorax and spun upon it; at 5.28 sus- 

 pended it from her spinnerets and ran about, and at 5.34 spun upon 

 it again. The fact that her cage had been kept in a dark drawer 

 might account for the cocooning in the afternoon. For her second 

 cocoon (finished July 3) she commenced the scaffolding on July 2. On 

 July 3, at 9.50 P.M., I found her in process of finishing the circular 

 base, and here I observed an action that I had probably overlooked 

 in the case of the other cocoons; when the white discoidal base was 

 clearly outlined upon the scaffolding she spun, upon its margin only, 

 long curled threads, each made by attaching her spinnerets to one point 

 of the margin, then elevating them and attaching them again close 

 to the first point of attachment; thus she made a marginal wall, just 

 sufficiently elevated to be seen with the naked eye. From 10.01 to 

 10.06 she worked upon this wall. Then the oviposition followed 

 upon the centre of the base from 10.07 to 10. 10^. From then until 

 10.20 she started covering the egg mass with high upliftings of the 

 spinnerets, thus laying down loops of threads, and from 10.20 to 10.24 

 with brushing movements of the spinnerets. From 10.24 to 10.26^ 

 she occupied herself in biting the cocoon loose. Then she held the 

 cocoon below her and spun upon it until 11.07, when she attached it 

 to her spinnerets. 



? No. 63 I found at 7.15 P.M., June 7, laying the covering upon 

 the egg mass. She cut the cocoon loose at 7.23, at 7.24 walked about 

 with it attached to her spinnerets, but at 7.26 held it below her again 

 and spun upon it until 7.59. At 8.04 she attached it to her spinnerets 

 again for a couple of minutes, then commenced to spin upon it 

 again. 



9 No. 61 was unsuccessful in her cocooning; at 10.30 P.M., May 11, 

 I found her holding beneath her cephalothorax a misshapen object, 

 bowl-shaped and of a bluish color, evidently a miscarried cocoon; 

 she tried in vain for a long time to spin upon it, and finally dropped it. 

 ■ Thus the nearly globular cocoon is formed from two separate 

 pieces. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



The number of cocoons, and the dates of their making, were as 

 follows : 



(1) 9 No. 33: Jmie 10 (did not hatch as it had not been cut). 



(2) ? No. 54: May 19, hatched June 7; a second cocoon hatched 

 July 9. 



(3) ? No. 57: May 12, hatched June 2; July 2, hatched July 19. 



(4) 9 No. 61: May 9, an abnormal cocoon. 



(5) 9 No. 63: June 7, she cut it open but the young never hatched, 

 for she had probably opened it too soon; July 25, an irregularly shaped 

 cocoon, which she destroyed by chewing on the same day. 



(6) 9 No. 65: May 9, hatched June 1; June 10 or 11, hatched 

 July 1. 



(7) 9 No. 58: May 18, hatched June 7; July 12, a very small cocoon 

 which she ate. 



(8) 9 No. 177: June 4, eaten by the mother; June 29, eaten by the 

 mother. 



Thus none of my captives made more than two cocoons. 



Care of the Young. — The cocoons are carried suspended from the 

 spinnerets, and generally kept well elevated above the ground, the 

 spinnerets being firmly fastened to one of the rounded sides. The 

 mother bites open the cocoon to allow the escape of the young, and 

 unless it is so opened the young cannot get out of it. This biting of 

 the cocoon was observed in several individuals; sometimes it lasts 

 through several days, for only a short time each day; in one case 

 the mother started to cut the cocoon a full week before the young 

 emerged; the following is a typical case: 9 No. 65 on May 30 was first 

 observed cutting her cocoon. On May 31, at 9.10 P.M., she was cutting 

 it again. The cocoon was held beneath her cephalothorax by the 

 first and third pairs of legs and by the abdomen deflected down- 

 ward, in such a position that the plane of its largest circumference 

 (its equator) coincided with her median plane. With her chelicera 

 she slowly tore away the thick outer covering along the line of the 

 equator, her palpi aiding, and at the same time her legs slowly rotated 

 the cocoon. This cutting is not a continuous process, but interruptetl 

 by frequent short rests as if she were noticing movements of the young. 

 At 10.22 she suspended the cocoon from her spinnerets, and cut 

 again from 10.35 to 10.39. The cut was now very deep, so that 

 through it the spiderlings could be seen moving within the cocoon. 

 Next morning several of the young had crawled out upon her body, and 

 at midday she finally dropped the cocoon, although there were still 

 young within it. Some mothers open their cocoons with a cut extend- 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ing along almost the whole line of the equator, and once the young 

 are upon her she pays no more attention to the discarded cocoon. 

 It is interesting to note (and this is also the case in the other Lycosids 

 examined by me, perhaps with the exception of Ocyale) that the cocoon 

 is always cut open along the line where the cover had previously been 

 cemented to the base of the cocoon; this equatorial line is always a 

 little rougher than the remaining surface of the cocoon, and perhaps 

 this roughness impels her to a further roughening. 



The young, on emerging from the cocoon, hang on to the body of 

 the mother for some time before leaving her, and leave in succession, 

 the more vigorous first. 9 No. 54 carried her young from June 7 to 

 June 13 ; $ No. 57 from June 2 to June 9; 9 No. 58 from June 7 to 

 June 12 ; 9 No. 65 from June 1 to June 3. Thus in the observed 

 cases the time varies from 2 to 7 days. 



Feeding. — As in other Lycosids this species kills the prey by grasping 

 and biting it, and rarely accepts dead insects ; and not only sucks the 

 juices of the victim but chews it up. It also drinks water fre- 

 quently. 



Parasites. — Two large individuals of a species of Mermis (Nematode) 

 escaped from $ No. 152. 



Pardosa scita ^lontg. 



This species is much less abundant than P. nigripalpis, but still 

 fairly common on some dry, open grounds. It runs and leaps very 

 rapidly, and is difficult to catch. I have made but few observations 

 upon it. 



Moult. — As in other Lycosids. 



Mating. — Only once was the beginning of a courtship seen. The 

 male touched the female, then waved his palpi in the air in the manner 

 of P. nigripalpis, but for only a few seconds, and did not repeat the 

 movement. Afterward whenever he approached her, she would wave 

 her first pair of legs in the air and tap his with hers. 



Parasites. — A species of Mermis. 

 Pirata liber -Montg. 



This is the common local species of the genus, and frequents marshy 

 ground. It dies very quickly from thirst and is with difficulty kept 

 alive in confinement. A number of individuals were watched, but 

 the following were the only observations worth recording. 



Mating. — A male placed in the cage of the female touched her, 

 went off, then returning Avith his first pair of legs outstretched and 

 in tremulous vibration he touched her with them, when she jumped 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



at him. This might have been a courting movement on the part of 

 the male, or else a cautious reconnaissance. 



Cocooning.— On June 2, at 1.30 P.M., I found a female had spun a 

 scaffolding of silk threads from the floor to the wall of the cage, and 

 upon it a circular disk of white silk; the latter was evidently the base 

 of the cocoon. I unfortunatelv placed a drop of water near her on 

 the glass floor of the cage. She then left the cocoon base, spun upon 

 the surface of the water drop, evidently mistaking it for the silken 

 base, and ultimately oviposited upon it. Later she raised and held 

 the egg mass beneath her cephalothorax, holding it there with her 

 palpi, chelicera, third pair of legs, and with her abdomen bent verti- 

 cally downward, and endeavored to spin upon it in that position. 

 But there was only a thin covering of silk on only one surface of the 

 egg mass, the cocoon came to grief, and she ultimately ate it up. 

 The drop of water had disturbed the regular course of the cocooning. 

 In the state of nature this species carries its round cocoon attached 

 to the spinnerets. 



Ocyale undata (Hentz). PL IV, fig. i. 



Care for the Young. — This species, as Hentz and Emerton have 

 described, constructs a web-nest for its young in the top of small 

 plants. I kept several females in order to learn this habit more in 

 detail, and the following notes relate to 9 No. 235, captured June 22. 



This spider was caught upon the ground in a wood, laboriously 

 moving along with its large spherical cocoon. Then, and for the first 

 evening after her capture, she held her cocoon beneath her body with 

 the aid of her chelicera, palpi and with her abdomen pressed against 

 it ; but unlike other Lycosids, her spinnerets were not attached to it. 

 That night she spun a network of lines in the cage, and next morning 

 was hanging upside down, hanging to the web lines with the claws 

 of her first and fourth pairs of legs, tightly embracing the cocoon with 

 her other legs, her chelicera and her palpi, in the position shown by 

 the sketch. Only once up to the time of hatching did she leave the 

 cocoon hanging in the web, and then in order to clean herself; at all 

 other times she continued to hold it tightly, and refused flies and 

 beetles put in as food. She occasionally climbed about with the 

 cocoon, spinning new lines in the cage, until quite a thick network 

 was made; and on July 9 I found the cocoon" bitten open by the mother, 

 hung high in the web, and numerous newly hatched spiderlings dis- 

 tributed over the web. She spun so many new lines that she herself 

 finally became enmeshed in them, and on July IS I cleared them 




92 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



away. On the early morning of July 22 she made a second cocoon, 

 when there were no nest lines in the cage ; on August 9 she fastened it 

 to the roof of the cage, cut it open with her jaws so that the J'oung 

 emerged, and in the succeeding days built a web-nest around it. 



From these few observations we may conclude that the cocoon is 

 made first, that the mother most carefully holds it until the time 

 for hatching, when she cuts it open and then spins the web-nest around 

 it. This method of holding the cocoon, and of guarding the young 

 upon a nest instead of carrying upon her body, is shared by our local 

 Dolomedes urinator Hentz, but is different from the usage of the other 

 Lycosid genera. These web-nests are generally found on the top of 

 plants along the sides of wooded streams, and have a decided resem- 

 blance to the nests of Lepidopterous larvae. 

 Tegenaria derhami Scop. 



Individuals observed, males: Xo. 23, captured May 2, escaped May 22; No. 74, 

 captured May 13, died (from starvation) June 5; No. 80, captured May 14, killed 

 May 27; No. 178, captured June 5, died July 24; No. 218, captured June 19, 

 died about September 1; No 221, captured June 19, died July 8; No. 252, cap- 

 tured June 26, killed (by ^^ No. 2,5) the same day. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 22, captured May 2, died Maj- 21 ; No. 25, 

 captured May 2, died August 4; No. 75, captured May 13, died August 19; 

 No. 79, captured May 14, died September 1; No. 84, captured May 15, killed 

 May 25; No. 117, captured May 24, died about September 10; No. 118, captured 

 May 24, escaped June 5; No. 219, captured June 19, died in December; No. 220, 

 captured June 19, died the first week of September. 



Moulting. — This was seen only once; the moulted skin was split in 

 the horizontal plane as in other spiders. 



Mating. — The mode of observation was to put a male upon the 

 web of the female, and the male was in most cases left with her and 

 not removed, since removal would necessitate a breaking of the web. 

 The male is of about the same size and strength as the female, and 

 the two generally live peacefully together. Sometimes the male is 

 the more aggressive and secures all the food placed in the cage, but 

 more generallv the female lords it a little over the male. The followina: 

 are my main observations on the approach of the male and the 

 mode of copulation: 



(1) On to the web of 9 Xo. 22 I placed J' No. 23 on May 3, at 2.41 

 P.M. They touched each other a few times, then remained motion- 

 less facing each other from 2.49 to 3.02. Then she moved toward 

 him and followed him slowly, she finally touched him and he moved 

 away. Then both remained immovable until 4.00, when I removed 

 him. On May 3 I put him in again at 9.15 P.M.; he touched her, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



she instantly turned and faced him, their fore-legs almost in contact. 

 They remained in this position until 9.29, he tapping the web a few 

 times with his palpi, while she shook the web vigorously with her left 

 fore-leg for a couple of seconds. At 9.30 he rubbed his palpi vigor- 

 ously with his fore-legs, then approached and copulated, this act 

 lasting only 5 seconds. Their exact position in the act was not 

 determined. I could only observe that he approached head on with 

 one palpus outstretched, they mutually grasping each other with 

 their first pair of legs, both in their usual position on the upper surface 

 of the web. She then moved away. At 9.35 he walked over her 

 without copulating. At 10.25 she approached and tapped him sev- 

 eral times with her left fore-leg, and again at 11.02. I watched them 

 continuously up to 12.27, then left him with her. Up to JNIay 21, when 

 she died (he securing most of the food given them), I watched them 

 many times, saw him on some occasions approaching her with shaking 

 palpi, but observed^ no further copulation. 



(2) To ? No. 25, after she had made 3 cocoons, I introduced cJ* No. 

 225; she chased and killed him. 



(3) 9 No. 79 had made 3 cocoons, when d" No. 178 was introduced 

 on June 19, at 9.15 P.M. He moved toward her very slowly, a step 

 of a centimeter each time, slowly and cautiously tapping the web 

 with his palpi; he took about 9 minutes to cross a distance of 2 inches, 

 and then when he had almost reached her, she rushed at him and 

 drove him away. At 9.35 he again approached cautiously, and at 

 9.50 rushed at her, but she repelled him. At 9.57 he advanced again, 

 at 10.10 making a quick rush at her and almost succeeding in inserting 

 an extended palpus in her epigynum, but she escaped from him. 

 No copulation was seen up to 11.25. 



(4) 9 No. 117 made her first cocoon on June 10. On June 19, at 

 9.40, c? No. 221 was placed on her web. At first she chased him about, 

 then both became quiet. At 10.01 he quickly ran at her, and copu- 

 lated with his right palpus from 10.02 to 10.03, for ten minutes after 

 which she chased him about the cage. The copulatory position was 

 the same as that of 9 No. 75 X d" No. 218. 



(5) 9 No. 75, after making 2 cocoons, mated with c? No. 218 on 

 June 19. He was introduced at 9.08 I'M., and shortly after she chased 

 him. At 10.00 he made a sudden move toward her and succeeded 

 in copulation ; he inserted his right palpus into her epigynum for 1 

 minute, his left for 15 seconds, his right again for a minute and a half. 

 Position: the male braced himself firmly on all legs upon the web, 

 and reached his palpus straight out before him and pressed it into the 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



epigynum with considerable energy ; the female faced him also on the 

 upper surface of the web (just within the funnel), lying partly on one 

 side with her legs drawn up, but not closely, to the sides of her body. 

 During the act the male pushed the female backward by his force. 

 When the palpus was inserted there was seen a large dilated sac 

 evaginated from the palpal organ. The female then ran off, and the 

 male proceeded to the process of sperm-induction. 



In these copulations the male accordingly first approaches slowly, 

 the female also sometimes making advances on her part, and con- 

 cludes with a rush at the female, and if he is quicker than she he suc- 

 ceeds in inserting his palpus. The fact that females copulate after 

 cocooning makes it appear probable that a copulation may precede 

 the making of each cocoon. 



Sperm-induction. — d' No. 218 was watched during this act, which 

 occurred immediately after his copulation with 9 No. 75 (concluded 

 at 10.03 P.M.). He first spun across an area of luearly a square inch 

 on the upper surface of the web, then limited himself to a small area 

 just at the entrance of the tunnel of the web. Here, by very rapid 

 brushing of the spinnerets from side to side, he constructed a deli- 

 cate silk sheeting placed at an acute angle to the surface of the nearly 

 horizontal web, the posterior and lateral edges of this sheeting attached 

 to the web, but its anterior edge unattached and elevated like an arch. 

 From side to side this sheeting was not quite so long as the length of 

 his body, and half this distance from before backward. He then 

 stood over it, so that the ventral surface of his abdomen almost touched 

 the superior surface of the sheeting, his cephalothorax above the 

 anterior (free) edge of it, and his spinnerets at its posterior edge. At 

 10.21^ P.M. he moved his abdomen slightly forward, discharged from 

 his genital aperture a minute drop of sperm upon the superior surface 

 of the sheeting at its free edge, and from that moment until 10.28 he 

 was engaged in taking this sperm into his palpal organs. This he did 

 by pressing the ventral (posterior) surface of each palpal organ on 

 the under surface of the sheeting, just at the point where the drop of 

 sperm had been placed on its upper surface; one palpus he held thus, 

 with occasional shaking, for 10 to 15 seconds, then the other, until 

 the whole of the drop was inducted; and each palpus when not so 

 busied he held in front of his cephalothorax and shook it in the air, 

 as if to force the semen deeper into the organ. From 10.27 until 10.34, 

 just after the completion of this process, he remained in the same posi- 

 tion, but quietly and with no further discharge of semen upon the 

 sheeting. Then he left the sheeting, worked his palpi a short while 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



with his cheHcera, then remained quiet until 11.10 when I ceased the 

 observations. The spirit is always willing to watch longer, but con- 

 tinuous observation with a hand lens, and the necessity of keeping 

 quiet in a cramped position for fear of starthng the object, becomes 

 trying to the flesh. 



A curious act which I observed cJ^ No. 23 to do I cannot explain, 

 but it may possibly have some connection with the mating. On May 

 3 he was upon the web of 9 No. 22. At 9.50 P.M., after his copu- 

 lation with her (described above), he commenced to tear a hole in 

 the horizontal portion of her web, tearing with his palpi and putting 

 the torn shreds in his jaws. He thus made an oblong rectangular 

 hole of about the length of his body, and as he continued to tear the 

 portion just in front of him, he swung his spinnerets over the posterior 

 part of the hole, and so spun it over with very fine transverse lines. 

 This act lasted until 10.04, and only about one-quarter of the hole in 

 the web had been mended over. Though I watched him closely up 

 to 12.27 A.M., he did not return to this hole. 



Cocooning. — This was observed several times, and was as follows: 

 ? No. 79 was observed at 8.00 A.M., June 19, spinning over a cir- 

 cular area (of greater diameter than her own length) on the vertical 

 glass wall just above the edge of the web. She ceased until 8.09, 

 owing to a jar to the cage, then commenced again. Very regularly 

 and actively, without interruption, she spun up to 8.23, placing her 

 feet at the periphery of the silken disk ("base" of the cocoon), and 

 revolving her body over it, turning sometimes from right to left and 

 sometimes in the reverse direction, all the while beating the tips of 

 her palpi upon the disk. During the earlier part of the process the 

 outstretched spinnerets were brushed from side to side ; but in the latter 

 part she lifted the abdomen high after each application, thus pulling 

 out long threads which she fastened close to their first point of attach- 

 ment, so that the inmost (most lately made) part of the disk was made 

 of curled loops, and so was of very soft consistency. Thus the base 

 of the cocoon, somewhat thickest in the centre, was formed. At 

 8.23 she stood quietly over this base, then oviposited upon it, the ovi- 

 position lasting a little more than one minute. From her genital 

 aperture exuded a large clear drop of viscid fluid and fell upon the 

 centre of the base, its upper surface still connected with her genital 

 aperture, and at the same time the yellowish ova fell into and were 

 enveloped by this drop. Then she immediately began spinning the 

 cover of the cocoon over the egg mass. From 8.24| to 8.35 she spun 

 a loose covering of silken loops by elevating the spinnerets after each 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



application (just as in the making of the base), and from 8.35 to 

 8.44 she spun a denser covering by brushing the spinnerets from side 

 to side. Finally she alternated the spinning upon the cocoon itself, 

 with spinning attachment lines from it to web. 



9 No. 25 made her first cocoon on the horizontal surface of her web, 

 apparently not spinning a special base. 



9 No. 75 made her second cocoon upon the surface of the web, and 

 after spinning a discoidal base oviposited upon it at 7.41 A.M.; she 

 occupied the time from 7.42 to 8.00 in spinning the cover. 



9 No. 220 spvm her cocoon in the same manner as did No. 79. 



One female, after making her cocoon at the angle of the wall and 

 floor of the cage, spun over it several thin, concentric, arched lamellae 

 of silk, evidently a protection. In a few cases the female attaches 

 foreign particles, as the remains of insects, to the surface of the cocoons, 

 but this was not done with the majority of the cocoons. The cocoons, 

 even those of the same spider, are placed in most diverse positions, 

 some horizontally and some vertically, some upon the web and some 

 away from it. 



The number of cocoons made and the dates of construction were 

 as follows: 



(1) $No. 25: May 31 (hatched June 9); May 29; June 10 or 11 

 (hatched July 5) ; June 20 (hatched July 16) ; July 2 (did not hatch) ; 

 July 9 (hatched July 31); July 21 (not all the eggs hatched); August 1 

 (hatched). A total of 8 cocoons made by an unusually small female. 



(2) 9 No. 75: May 23 (hatched June 14); June 7 (destroyed by the 

 mother); July 5 (hatched July 30); July 17 (hatched August 2). A 

 total of 5 cocoons. 



(3) 9 No. 79: May 24 (hatched June 19) ; June 7 (hatched July 5) ; 

 June 19 (hatched July 12) ; June 29 (hatched July 19) ; July 7 (did 

 not hatch) ; July 17 (hatched August 9) ; August 1 (hatched) ; August 

 21 (hatched). A total of 8 cocoons. 



(4) 9 No. 117: June 10 (hatched July 6); June 26 (none of the ova 

 developed); July 3 (hatched July 23); July 12 (hatched July 29); 

 July 27 (hatched August 20) ; August 8 (hatched) ; August 28 (hatched 

 September 29). A total of 7 cocoons. 



(5) 9 No. 118: May 31 (hatched June 5). 



(6) 9 No. 219: July 4 (hatched July 24); July 28 (hatched August 

 21); August 21 (hatched). A total of 3 cocoons. 



(7) 9 No. 220: June 29 (hatched July 27) ; July 16 (hatched August 

 2); July 30 (hatched August 22); August 21 (hatched). A total of 

 4 cocoons. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



The differences in the time of hatching are probably due as much 

 to differences in the thickness of the cocoons as to any such factor 

 as temperature. 



Care of the Young. — I have seen no evidences that the mother guards 

 in any way either her cocoons or her young. The young make their 

 own way out of the cocoon, making an opening or openings at the 

 margin where the cover is joined to the base; that the mother does 

 not tear the cocoon open for them is proved by the cases where the 

 young emerge at a point that is inaccessible to the mother. 



Feeding. — This is rather a timid species, the great protection afforded 

 by the tubular portion of the web compensating for want of strength, 

 and they rarely attack prey as large as themselves, and usually avoid 

 much smaller spiders. The prey is killed by biting, and after being 

 sucked dry is usually left hanging in the web. The males especially 

 are frequently eager for water. 

 Agalena naevia Walck. PI. IV, fig. 4. 



Individuals observed, males: No. 72, captured May 11, moulted May 24, June 

 7, July 3, July 28, died September 30 (starvation) ; No. 303, captured July 9, 

 moulted August 2, killed by ^ No. 243, August 20. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 73, captured May 11, moulted May 13, 25, 

 June 7, 29, July 13, August 5, still living; No. 206, captured June 16, moulted 

 June 29, July 27, died in December; No. 243, captured June 22, moulted July 3, 

 July 28, died in November. 



Moult. — The first moult of ? No. 73 commenced at 11.08 P.M., she 

 hanging with her spinnerets and feet attached to the roof of the cage. 

 The old skin split into a dorsal and a ventral piece, separated by a 

 horizontal break along the sides of the abdomen, along the sides of the 

 cephalothorax above the legs and below the eyes. She slowly fell 

 out of the split exuvia, with the help of slight convulsive movements 

 of the body and legs. Her legs were completely freed at 11.15, and 

 at 11.23 she hung head down attached to the exuvia only by the 

 spinnerets. At 11.39 she climbed into the web. The new skin is 

 at first much lighter than it becomes on exposure to the air. 



Mating. — The two cases seen were these : 



(1) 9 No. 73. cJ^No. 72 was placed upon her web on August 21, at 

 10.20 A.M. Both were immovable up to 12.00, when I left them. On 

 my return at 12.40 his fore-legs were touching hers. At 12.47 he shook 

 his body. At 1.20 she flexed her legs close to her sides, he being then 

 upon the web half an inch above her. At 1.26 he seized her from 

 above, his head pointing toward her spinnerets, and tapped her abdo- 

 men several times with his first pair of legs, she motionless. At 1.36 

 he left her; she remained inert until 1.46, then moved somewhat, 

 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



when he quickly turned and faced her and she became again motionless 

 with her legs flexed closely. At 2.06 he pulled her toward and beneath 

 him, his head facing her spinnerets and just above the pedicel of her 

 abdomen; at 2.08 turned her partially on her side, then applied his 

 left palpus from 2.08 until about 5.00, then appUed his right palpus 

 on her other side from 5.00 until 9.40; the number of insertions of 

 each palpus was not noted. At 9.40 he stood over her. At 9.46 she 

 moved shghtty for the first time, when he embraced her again and 

 tapped her abdomen rapidly with his fore-legs, got her again into 

 copulatory attitude and inserted his left palpus from 9.50^ to 9.54. 

 He then -R-ithdrew this palpus and cleaned it vigorously with his 

 chehcera mitil 9.58, when he left her. She quickly rose and followed 

 him, but he escaped. 



(2) ? No. 243. cJ* No. 303 was dropped upon her web on August 19, 

 at 3.14 P.M. At 3.34 he placed his first pair of legs upon hers, while 

 he was higher in the web than she. At 3.37 she turned away, then 

 faced him again, and at 3.40 he moved still nearer. At 3.46 he sud- 

 denly grasped her with his legs, and, she flexing her legs to her sides 

 and becoming motionless, he carried her an inch away from the place. 

 At 3.49 he left her still l}ang inert and walked about, evidently seeking 

 a place on the web favorable for copulation, returning to and standing 

 over her half a minute later. At 3.51^ he seized two of her legs with 

 his chehcera, carried her about, then dropped her. At 3.54 she turned 

 around. At 3.59 he seized her again, placing himseK over her mth 

 his head directed obhquely toward her spinnerets, she lying partially 

 on one side with her legs flexed, and commenced the copulation with 

 his left palpus. The length of time of each insertion of this palpus 

 was as follows: 3.59-4.19^, 4.20-4.30, 4.31-4.37^, 4.39-4.46^, 4.47- 

 4.56, 4.57-5.03, 5.03f-5.08i, 5.09-5.14, 5.15-5.22, 5.23-5.31, 5.31|- 

 5.41^ 5.42i-5.49i 5.50-5.55, 5.56-6.01, 6.01|-6.09, 6.09^6.14, 

 6.141-6.24, 6.24^6.28, 6.29-6.36, 6.36^-6.56^, 6.57-7.10*, 7.11-7.21, 

 7.22-7.30i, 7.31-7.40i 7.41^-7.50^, 7.51-7.58^, 7.591-8.06^, 8.07-8.16, 

 8.17-8.36^, 8.38-8.39, 8.40-8.54. He inserted the palpus each time 

 by extending it downward along the left side of her abdomen to her 

 epigynum, and inserting the spirally wound process of the palpal organ 

 for its whole length; when inserted, a large sac connected with the 

 ventro-median side of the palpal organ swelled up. The palpus was 

 withdrawn after this sac had collapsed, and the palpal organ drawn 

 through the chehcera before the next insertion. At 8.55 the male 

 changed his position upon her, so as to bring his long axis parallel 

 to hers, hfted her 1 cm. backward, then stood quietly over her. At 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



8.58 he brought his head obUqiiely over her right side, then applied 

 the right palpus, in the same manner as he had the left, as foUows : 

 8.58^8.59^, 9.00-9.12, 9.13-9.19, 9.19^-9.24, 9.25-9.30, 9.30|-9.34^, 

 9.35-9.39, 9.40-9.45, 9.46-9.49^, 9.50-9.56, 9.56^-10.02, 10.02^-10.06, 

 10.061-10.16, 10.16+-10.23, 10.23^-10.29^ 10.30^-10.39^, 10.40-10.45. 

 10.45i-10.55, 10.56-11.18, 11.18^-11.31, 11.32-11.46^, 11.47-11.59. 

 Then for very weariness I ceased watching and left them in copula, 

 and next morning found the female eating the male. The female was 

 immovable throughout the whole act, her sternum with its ventral 

 surface downward, but her abdomen tA\dsted on its long axis so as to 

 flex the epigynum up to meet the palpus of the male. His right palpus 

 was used upon her right side, his left palpus upon her left side. 



The copulation lasted in the first of these cases for 7 hours and 47 

 minutes; in the second case it was watched for exactly eight hours, 

 but lasted longer. In both cases the approach and behavior of the 

 males was alike, and both used the left palpus first. There was nothing 

 in the behavior of the males to indicate a courtship ; there was simply 

 a cautious approach of the male, and after he had found no sign of 

 hostility on the part of the female he quickly seized her, and she was 

 absolutely submissive in his grasp. When he first grasps her he taps 

 her abdomen with his first pair of legs, perhaps an act of subjugation. 

 Not one of the females have made cocoons up to the time of this 

 writing (October 5). 

 Dictyna volupis Keys. PI. V, fig. 6. 



Numbers of individuals of this species were collected on ]\Iay 26 

 upon vines of Ampelopsis and English ivy growing upon the walls of 

 my old homestead, near West Chester, Pa. They had constructed 

 their webs upon the upper surface of the leaves of these plants, and 

 upon most of the webs a male and female were found together, and a 

 number of these were found then in copulation. This species is easily 

 kept in captivity, and on account of .their small size I kept them in 

 test-tubes with the mouth loosely plugged with cotton, placing a n.iale 

 and female together in each tube, when they made the webs conjointly ; 

 males and females caught together were kept together. 



Individuals observed, males: No. 130, caught on web of ? No. 131, died June 15 : 

 No. 132, caught on web of ? No. 132, died June 24; No. 134, caught on web 

 of ^ No. 135, died in June; No. 136, caught on web of $ No. 137, died June IG; 

 No. 138, caught on web of $ No. 139, died June 3; No. 140, caught on web of 

 2 No. 141, died June 18; No. 142, caught on web of 9 No. 143, died July 2 ; 

 No. 144, caught on web of 9 No. 145, died June 3; No. 146, caught on web of 

 2 No. 147, died in June; No. 148, caught on web of $ No. 149, died June 7. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 131, escaped June 14; No. 133, escaped 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



July 2; Xo. 135, died early in September; Xo. 137, died early in September; 

 Xo. 139, escaped June 3; Xo. 141, died about September 1; Xo. 143, died Au- 

 gust 6; Xo. 145, still living; Xo. 147, died about September 28; Xo. 149, died in 

 September. 



Mating. — The following were the observed cases worthy of note: 



(1) $Xo. 133. cJ'Xo. 132 was introduced at 12.30 P.M., May 27. 

 Most of the time he spent in spinning upon the web. but sometimes 

 approached and touched her, when she either moved away or else 

 shook her legs tremulously. At 3.40 I was obliged to leave, and on 

 my return at 4.33 found them in copula against the bottom of the 

 test-tube. She lay upon her left side with her legs flexed close to her 

 body, her abdomen and cephalothorax in one line. He lay upon his 

 right side with his face pressed against the ventral surface of her 

 cephalothorax and his ventral surface turned toward hers, but not 

 parallel with it, the axes of their abdomens diverging at an angle of 

 mor3 than 45°; his first two pairs of legs embraced hers closely, his 

 posterior pairs were directed backward and braced against the web. 

 This male had lost his right palpus; his left he extended backward 

 along the ventral surface of her abdomen so as to hold the palpal 

 organ inserted in her epigynum. This copulation lasted without 

 interruption up to 5.32. Then after she had made two cocoons, on 

 June 4 and 9 respectively, the same male was found in copulation 

 again at 12.59, continuing so up to 1.48, when he left her, and though 

 he returned several times she met him with open jaws, except once 

 when she approached him with closed jaw^s, shaking her flexed first 

 pair of legs. Then he proceeded to charge his palpus with sperm. 



(2) ? No. 135. c?No. 134 was found at 7.35 P.M., May 27, in copu- 

 lation; the embrace was as in the preceding case, except that their 

 bodies were directed upward. Only the right palpus was used, and 

 that was kept continuously inserted ; a large evaginated sac connected 

 with this palpal organ dilated and contracted 10-11 times a minute, 

 each dilation of it accompanied by a slight jerk of his abdomen. He 

 suddenly left her at 8.09, worked his palpi through his jaws, shortly 

 after fed upon a gnat, and no further copulation was observed up to 

 10.20. On June 13, after she had made three cocoons, they were 

 seen again in copulatory attitude, but his palpi were not inserted. 



(3) ? No. 141. J No. 140 was embracing her at 2.00 P.M., May 31, 

 but his palpi, though pressed against her abdomen, were not inserted. 

 The right palpus was inserted continuously from 2.15 to 3.06. He 

 then moved a few millimeters away, and on approaching her again 

 she rushed at him with opened jaws and chased him the length of the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



test-tube. Xo further copulation was observed up to 4.20. On 

 June 5, at 12.55 P.M., she having made no cocoon in the meantime, 

 they were again copulating, he using his left palpus continuously up 

 to 2.10, then his right from 2.10 to 3.13, after which he ran to the oppo- 

 site end of the test-tube and cleaned his palpi with his chelicera. 



(4) 9 No. 147. May 26, at 2.00 P.M., d'No. 146 approached and 

 seized her, then inserted his left palpus continuously from 2.04 to 3.02, 

 then at 3.02 his right and kept it inserted up to 4.20, when I was 

 obliged to stop observations; they were separated on my return at 

 5.25. 



(5) 9 No. 149. At 8.14 P.M., I saw J'No. 148 come face to face 

 with her, then, each of them tapping upon the web with the first two 

 pairs of legs, they moved backward and forward slowly. This lasted 

 only two minutes, when they both became quiet half an inch apart; 

 it was repeated again for a short period at 8.54. On June 1 they 

 were seen in copulation at 4.52 P.M., he inserting his left palpus, and 

 again on June 4, at 11.35 A.^I., continuing up to 11.50, he using his 

 left palpus, and afterward he proceeded to the sperm-induction. 



In this species the male is shaped quite different from the female, 

 and is a little larger (an unusual condition among spiders). There is 

 no true courtship on the part of the male, for his tapping upon the 

 web wdth his fore-legs is an act which the female also does. More 

 than one copulation may precede the making of a cocoon; and copu- 

 lation may follow cocooning. The longest time a pair was seen in 

 continuous copulation was 2 hours and 18 minutes, the left palpus here 

 ])eing employed for 1 hour and 15 minutes, then the right for 1 hour 

 and 3 minutes. 



Spenn-induction. — This was seen twice: 



(1) cJ^No. 132 terminated his second copulation with 9 No. 133 at 

 1.35 P.M. After that I watched him continuously with a lens. From 

 2.00 to 2.19 he alternated spinning upon various portions of the web 

 with cleaning his palpi with his chelicera. At 2.20 he commenced 

 spinning over a small area, the diameter of which was not larger than 

 the length of his abdomen, and ceased at 2.22. Half a minute later 

 he bent his abdomen downward and discharged from his genital aper- 

 ture a minute drop of sperm, which appeared to adhere to the delicate 

 web beneath him, and at the same moment reached his left palpus 

 (his right was missing) downward and backward beneath his cephalo- 

 thorax and took this drop into tlie palpal organ. He then remained 

 quiet up to 1.42, when I stopped observations, occasionally shaking 

 liis palpus in the air, Init discharging no more sperm. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



(2) c?No. 148, on June 4, ceased his copulation with ? No. 149 at 

 11.50 A.M. About 4 minutes afterward he started spinning on the 

 glass wall, not using his calamistra, and made a close but scarcely 

 visible silk sheeting at one place. This continued up to 12.05 P.M., 

 when he stood over it, shaking his palpi and rubbing them against his 

 chelicera. At 12.10 a minute whitish globule of sperm fell from his 

 genital aperture upon the silk sheeting, rolled forward upon it {i.e., 

 toward his head), and was immediately taken into one of his palpal 

 organs, and that palpus was then shaken repeatedly many times. 

 After that he remained in the same position, flexing his palpi and 

 pressing them against the silk sheeting. But there was no further 

 discharge of semen, though I watched him continuously with a lens. 

 He spun again in another place from 12.20 to 12.27, then w^ent off to 

 feed upon a fly. 



The peculiarity of the sperm-induction in this species is its rapidity, 

 and the fact that the palpi are not placed beneath the silk layer made 

 to catch the drop of sperm. 



Cocooning. — This process was not seen, most of the cocoons having 

 been made in the early morning. Only the conclusion of it was noticed 

 in a couple of cases, i.e., the finishing of the cover of the cocoon; silk 

 was applied that had been drawn out by the calamistra from the 

 cribrellum. And female No. 131 was seen standing over a flat circular 

 disk of silk one day at 12.00 P.M., and sometime before the next day 

 she oviposited upon it and spun another disk as a cover ; this observa- 

 tion shows that this species, as other spiders, makes her cocoon of a 

 base and a cover. 



The number of cocoons made, and their dates, were as follows : 



(1) 9 No. 131 : June 4, June 7. 2 cocoons. 



(2) 9 No. 133: June 4 (hatched June 23); June 9; June 17; June 

 20. 4 cocoons. 



(3) 9 No. 135: June 8 (hatched June 22); June 9; June 13; July 5; 

 July 8; July 9; July 11; July 15; July 31. 9 cocoons. 



(4) ? No. 137: June 10 or 11 (hatched June 24); July 3; August 3; 

 August 19. 4 cocoons. 



(5) 9 No. 141: July 3; July 7; July 13; July 26. 4 cocoons. 



(6) 9 No. 143: July 4; July 24. 2 cocoons. 



(7) 9 No. 145: July 10; July 15; July 24; July 30; August 11. 

 5 cocoons. 



(8) 9 No. 147: June 4 (hatched June 18); June 6 or 7; June 17 

 (hatched July 3); June 22; July 4; July 18; July 27. 7 cocoons. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



(9) 9 No. 149: June 14 (hatched June 29); July 16; July 19; July 

 23; July 29; August 1. 6 cocoons. 



The quick succession of these cocoons will be noticed, sometimes co- 

 coons being made upon consecutive days. This is because only a 

 few eggs (perhaps never more than 12 or 15) are laid in any one 

 cocoon. The base of the cocoon is a flat disk, generally broader than 

 the more or less arched cover; the cocoons are pure white. In the 

 test-tubes most of them were placed against the glass, others built 

 upon the web; sometimes they were arranged in row^s, one placed 

 upon another. 



Care of the Young. — The mother appears not to remain by her 

 cocoons nor to guard them in any way. The young make their own 

 way out of the cocoons, emerging at one point between the base and 

 the cover. 



Feeding. — Relatively to its size this species is the most forward in 

 attack, attacking large insects, such as blue-bottle flies, which many 

 larger spiders flee from. It evidently trusts to the great strength of 

 the web, in which large insects become helplessly entangled. The 

 little spider rushes immediately at the entangled victim, seizes hold 

 of it with his jaws without spinning upon it, and keeps his hold though 

 violently shaken by the prey. 



Theridium tepidariorum C. Koch. PI. IV, fig. 2. 



Individuals observed, males: No. 7, captured April 29, killed May 19; No. 8, 

 captured April 29, moulted the same day, escaped the same night; No. 13, 

 captured May 1, escaped May 3; No. 19, captured; May 2, killed May 16; No. 

 20, captured May 2, killed by ? No. 17 May 18; No. 71, captured May 8, 

 killed May 23; No. 77, captured May 13, moulted May 15, died (of starvation 

 probably) June 3; No. 81, captured May 14, killed May 18; No. 115, captured 

 May 24, killed next day; No. 116, captured May 24, killed next day; No. 123, 

 captured May 26, died June 7; No. 125, captured May 26, died June 11; No. 

 126, captured May 26; No. 127, captured May 26, died June 6; No. 155, captured 

 May 30, died June 29 ; No. 217, captured June 19, died June 29 ; No. 254, captured 

 June 26, killed (by $ No. 253) July 10; No. 319, captured July 14, died August 6. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 6, captured April 29, died June 19; No. 16, 

 captured April 29, died about September 1 ; No. 17, captured April 29, moulted 

 May 9, killed May 30; No. 18, captured May 2, died (apparently starvation) 

 June 2; No. 26, captured May 2, killed May 8; No. 76, captured May 13, died 

 (starvation) June 3; No. 124, captured (on the same web with (^ No. 123) 

 May 26, died July 3; No. 129, captured May 26, died July 29; No. 154, captured 

 May 30, died about September 1; No. 156, captured May 30, died July 23; 

 No. 202, captured June 11, died July 29; No. 253, captured June 26, died about 

 September 1 . 



Moulting.— This was observed in one c^ only ; the process lasted about 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



half an hour, the spider slowly falHng out of its old skin, and the legs 

 were quite colorless immediately after the moult. 



Mating. — The method of observation was to keep a female in a cage 

 until she had made a web there, then to drop a cJ', handling him as 

 gently as possible, upon her web. 



The introductory steps of the mating are as often made by the female 

 as by the male, and she often shows quite an insatiable eagerness, even 

 sometimes lea^ang food to approach the male. As soon as the male 

 commences to move upon her web she recognizes him as a male of her 

 own species, and, when she is eager, commences immediately to signal 

 to him, both spiders being on the lower surface of the web and upside 

 do^\Ti (the usual position). The female hangs to the web with the 

 third and fourth pairs of legs, and shakes the longer second and first 

 pairs vigorously and spasmodically in the air (when those legs are not 

 attached to web lines), othermse with them she shakes web lines to 

 which they are hooked. This "signalling" is a sign of eagerness on 

 the part of the female, and so far as I have observed she makes it at 

 no other time than when she is eager and notices the approach of a 

 male of her own species. There are individual differences in the mode 

 of signalling, as well as differences in accord with the degree of eager- 

 ness of the female; sometimes a female signals without moving from 

 her original position, sometimes with the signalling she moves by short 

 steps toward the male. When she is not eager she either remains 

 motionless, or else rushes hostilely toward the male as at an object of 

 prey; in both cases the male makes no advances, and when she is 

 markedly aggressive he escapes by dropping from the web. The 

 whole attitude of the male is that of combined timidity and eagerness ; 

 he is much smaller than the female and upon a foreign web, and usually 

 acts with great caution, ^"ery frequently he will climb about the web 

 for a greater or longer period, the female all the while signaling, before 

 he approaches her; often he approaches and touches her several times 

 and each time rapidly withdraws again ; more rarely, the male responds 

 quickly to the signalHng of the female and copulates within a minute 

 of time. Sometimes the male, while moving about on the web, on 

 coming across a break in it, will pause to mend the break before ap- 

 proaching the female. The male shows his eagerness by a spasmodic 

 jerking of his abdomen. He tests the eagerness of the female, and 

 finds her position on the web, by grasping with the claws of his first 

 pair of feet the web lines that she is shaking by her signalling, and by 

 drawing these web lines taut he feels her movements all the more dis- 

 tinctly; he approaches gradually nearer her, guided by her signalling. 

 and finally makes a short rush toward her. 




1903 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



In tliis species the courtship, if the expression of eagerness may be 

 so called, comes evidently much more from the female than from the 

 male; and that the male is not able to satisfy the female is shown by 

 the fact that the latter continues her signaUing for some time after the 

 copulation. The mode of sexual recognition is entirely by touch, by 

 the tension of the web lines. 



The copulation I have observed many times. Both individuals 

 being on the lower surface of the web (in small cages the female spinning 

 a horizontal web about half-way between the floor and the roof), on 

 the close approach of the male the female hangs to the web by the claws 

 of her third and fourth pairs of legs, her other legs hanging unattached, 

 so that her cephalothorax lies beneath her abdomen. The male places 

 himself parallel to her, his ventral surface opposite hers, his cephalo- 

 thorax also above her abdomen, his position in the web higher so that 

 his head is opposite her epig^mum, embracing her closely with his 

 second and third, sometimes also with the fourth pair of legs, while 

 his long first pair of legs beat about in the air. His palpi are applied 

 to her epigynum generally both at the same time ; sometimes only one 

 palpus is employed during one copulation. The length of time of the 

 application of the palpi is rarely 15 seconds, usually less than 10 seconds, 

 and all this time the female remains perfectly motionless. The copula- 

 tion completed, the male hurries away, or else falls down out of the 

 web and remains for some seconds motionless, his energies evidently 

 spent. After copulating he cleans his palpi vrith. his jaws. Sometimes 

 the male has difficulty in inserting his palpi into the epigynal orifices, 

 and tries ineffectively many times while the female remains motionless. 

 The copulation is so soon over that I have not been able to determine 

 the exact action of the palpi during it. 



This species copulates very frequently, and there are several matings 

 preceding the making of each cocoon. The female appears always 

 eager except in the time of full pregnancy, and may mate with numer- 

 ous males, as the following data show: 



(1) 9 No. 6 copulated with d'No. 7 at 7.53 P.M., April 29, and this 

 6^ showing no more desire was removed at 9.25. Put him with her 

 April 30, copulation at 1.43 P.M. Again on April 30, at 11.12 P.M. 

 Again at 7.44 P.]M., April 30, half a minute after he was put in. On 

 May 3 I put him with her again for two hours, but no copulation. On 

 May 4, copulation at 9.20 A.M., five minutes after he was put in; 

 and again at 8.39 P.^M. and 8.43 P.M. May 5, put him in again at 

 7.59 P.M., copulation within half a minute, and a second one at 8.01. 

 On May 6, when I put him upon her web, she acted hostilely. May 8. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



copulation at 5.24 P.M.. half a minute after his introduction. On 

 May 11 she was hostile to him, as also on May 13; at this date she 

 was very large with eggs, which she laid May 19. May 24 I introduced 

 cJ^No. 115 at 4.51 P.M., he copulated immediately; he was removed at 

 4.05, and c?No. 116 placed with her, copulating at 4.07^ and 4.08. 

 May 25 I put ind^No. 116 from 10.10 to 11.00 A.M., but he avoided her. 

 though she made amatory signals; and c?No. 115 behaved similarly 

 on the evening of the same day. May 27, c?No. 125 copulated at 2.50 

 and 2.53 ; and the same d" at 8.43 and 8.45 P.M., May 28. On May 28 

 put in d^No. 128, copvilation at 8.57^ and 8.58 P.M. May 29, put in 

 6^ No. 125, copulations at 6.00, 6.01, 6.02 P.M.; and he copulated with 

 her on June 1, at 5.30^ and 5.31 P.M. June 2, cJ'Xo. 126 was placed 

 in her cage, but he showed no eagerness and was removed at 9.25 P.M. ; 

 then c?No. 125 was put in, and copulation followed at 9.32^. June 30, 

 put in d^'No. 125, but no copulation ensued, although she was eager. 

 June 17, put incJ^No. 215 at 11.00 A.M., and two copulations followed 

 within 3 minutes. (A total of 27 observed copulations.) 



(2) 9 No. 16 copulated with cJ' No. 13 at 7.55, 7.56, 7.56^, 7.58, 8.00 

 and 8.04^ P.M., on April 29, the d^ after each copulation moving half 

 an inch away from her and drawing his palpi through his jaws. May 4 

 I introduced c? No. 19 from 7.35 to 9.40 P.M., but there was no copula- 

 tion. On May 5, cJ'No. 19 copulated at 8.14, 8.18 and 8.19 P.M. ; and 

 the next day at 7.39 P.]\I., a minute after his introduction. On May 8 

 d'No. 19 copulated with her at 5.33 and 5.37 P.M.; and on May 13 at 

 4.22 and 4.23 P.M. On May 14 I introduced d'No. 7, on May 15 d'No. 

 19, on May 16 cJ^No. 19, but she was hostile on each occasion (she 

 oviposited May 25). On May 25, at 10.10 A.M., just after the comple- 

 tion of the cocoon, c?No. 115 was introduced; she first rushed at him, 

 then held herself in copulating attitude, then became again hostile. 

 May 27 I introduced cJ'No. 127 at 3.10 P.M., she rushed at him and 

 started to enshroud him, but when he touched her with his legs she 

 ceased, and copulation followed at 3.11 and 3.12. May 28, cJ^No. 127 

 was put in at 9.08 P.M., copulations followed at 9.09, 9.09^, 9.10. 

 May 29, cJ^No. 127 copulated at 5.27 P.M. ; but when c? No. 128 was put 

 in his place at 5.30, she chased him hostilely. June 1 I put in cJ^No. 

 127, but she acted hostilely (perhaps from hunger this time, as she had 

 not been fed for three days). June 2 I introduced d^ No. 127 while she 

 was feeding, and she chased him from the web. June 7, d^No. 182 

 was introduced, but though she signalled eagerly he did not mate. 

 June 15 (a cocoon was built by her the preceding day) I introduced 

 d" No. 182, copulation ensued at 7.25 and 7.27 P.M. (A total of 22 

 observed copulations.) 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



(3) 9 Xo. IS was put into the cage of d^No. 8 on May 2, but she 

 chased him; then (5^ No. 19 was introduced and copulated with her at 

 11.27, 11.29, 11.29^ and 11.31 A.M. Two Theridiids of a smaller 

 species were put in at 12.00 M., so that five spiders were now together. 

 9 No. 18 sometimes would make amatory advances to cJ^No. 8, but he 

 (evidently not mature) fled from her. Several times she came into 

 contact with d^No. 19, but after a few excited advances he left her 

 each time. She always acted hostilety to the individuals of the 

 smaller species. She copulated with 6^ No. 19 at 12.42; this d^ later 

 made a rush at the smaller d^No. 8. The latter subsequently escaped, 

 and I removed (dNo. 19 on May 4. On May 8 a freshly caught large 

 cJ^was introduced, but she seemed frightened by him. On May 9 she 

 copulated with (dNo. 71 at 7.55 P.M.; he was left in her cage until 

 May 28, and copulations were noticed at 9.15 P.M., May 13, and 9.15 

 P.M., May 15. (A total of 8 copulations observed.) 



(4) 9 No. 76. d^No. 77 was introduced on May 13, but she remained 

 immovable, and was hostile to him next day, as she was to d^No. 85 

 on May 15, and to d^No. 77 on May 16. May 18, d^No. 77 copulated 

 at 6.59 and 6.59^ P.M. (Only 2 copulations.) 



(5) ? No. 124 copulated with d' No. 123 on May 27, at 2.17, 2.22, 2.27 

 P.M., besides some unsuccessful attempts. The same d^made several 

 unsuccessful attempts on May 28, and one successful one. May 29 I 

 introduced him while she was feeding, she left her prey and signalled 

 vigorously, copulation at 5.49 P.jM. IMay 30, copulations with the 

 same d^at 4.44 and 4.49 P.M.; and at 4.55 P.M. d^No. 155 was intro- 

 duced, but he would not answer her amatory signals. On June 1 

 d^No. 123 made protracted but unsuccessful attempts to copulate at 

 5.43, 5.46, 5.47 and 5.47* P.M. June 2 she copulated with d'No. 128 

 at 10.28^, 10.29 and 10.32 P.M. June 8 I put in d'No. 128 again at 

 1.36 P.M., while she was eating a beetle; she signalled immediately 

 while remaining close to the beetle, he went toward her and mistakenly 

 tried to copulate with the enshrouded beetle, but ultimately copulated 

 with her at 1.40 and 1.42. June 12 I put in d^No. 128 again, copula- 

 tions followed at 8.59 and 9.16 P.M.; I left them together, and next 

 morning found she had eaten him. (A total of 23 copulations observed, 

 of which a number were unsuccessful.) 



(6) 9 Xo. 129 copulated with d" No. 123 at 8.31 P.M., May 28; later 

 he attempted to insert his palpi but in vain, she then became aggressive. 

 June 2 she copulated with d'No. 155 at 8.37 and 8.43 P.M. June 7, 

 with dXo. 155, at 8.24 P.M., half a minute after his introduction. 

 June 15, with the same d^, at 7.23 P.^NI. (A total of 5 observed copu- 

 lations.) 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



(7) 9 Xo. 156 copulated withc?No. 123 at 12.10. 12.12. 12. 12^, 12.13 

 P.M., June 3. June 19. three times w-ith c"Xo. 217. July 15. at 3.30 

 P.M., -u-ith cJ Xo. 319. (A total of 9 observed copulations.) 



These obser\^ations show that while the copulations are of brief 

 duration, generally less than 10 seconds, they are frequently repeated. 

 The number must be larger in natural conditions than my figures 

 show for caged individuals, since in order to count the number I was 

 obhged to remove the males during those periods when I could not 

 watch them. Even when there are one or more cocoons in her web 

 the female mates as freely as before o\dposition, and their presence 

 does not in any way seem to retard her mating impulses. 



Sperm-induction. — The following was the only case observed. 

 cJXo. 319, after copulating with $ Xo. 156 at 3.30 P.M. on July 15, 

 was watched carefully T\dth the hope of seeing this process. He left 

 the female and went to a corner where he remained quiet, hanging 

 with the ventral svirface^ uppermost and the cephalothorax a little 

 lower than the abdomen. At 4.35 P.M. he flexed his abdomen slightly 

 on its pedicel so as to elevate its apex, deposited from his genital aper- 

 ture a small drop of sperm upon a line of the web, then apphed the 

 palpal organs alternately to this drop. This process continued until 

 4.39 P.]\l., when he was driven away from the place by the approach 

 of the female. The droplet of sperm had been only slightly diminished 

 in amount, so that probably the induction into the palpal organs 

 takes a much larger time. I watched him for half an hour more; for 

 a while he shook his palpi shghtly in the air, but ceased this action 

 and did not emit any more sperm. 



Cocooning. — The browTi ovoid or subglobular cocoons are very 

 familiar objects in barns and cellars where this species is most fre- 

 c^uently found. In captivity they make their cocoons usually in the 

 early morning, completing them before 8.30 A.M., in one case as late 

 as 10.00 A.M. 



The process is as follows : ? Xo. 16 was observed commencing her 

 first cocoon at 8.15 A.M., May 25. She was making a fluffy ball of 

 loosely curled white silk, barely a third the diameter of the finished 

 cocoon, suspended by a thread from the roof of the cage. She worked 

 by hanging in the web with her first pair of legs, using the legs of the 

 fourth pair in alternate action to pull out from her spinnerets and apply 

 to the silken mass the white thread, and occasionally helping with 

 the third pair of legs. At 8.23J she placed her epigynum close to the 

 lower surface of the silken ball, and there issued from her genital aper- 

 ture a large, yellowish, viscid drop of fluid in which ova could be 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



indistinctly seen ; this drop was not very transparent, so that I could 

 not determine whether the drop was first exuded and then the ova 

 rolled into it. or whether they were discharged together, bvit appear- 

 ances were more in favor of the last supposition. This drop was very 

 viscid and of thick consistency, holding a spherical shape and enclosing 

 the ova, and adhering firmly to the silken ball. At 8.27 she completely 

 freed herself from the drop, and then commenced to spin over it. This 

 was accomplished by hanging with the first and second pair of legs 

 from the web, the legs of the fourth pair in alternate use applying the 

 thread to the surface of the drop ; while the third pair of legs and the 

 palpi were employed in concerted action so as to revolve the whole mass 

 on its suspending silken thread. The spinnerets at this stage were 

 not applied directly to the cocoon, From 8.27 until 8.55 she was on 

 the left side of the cocoon, revolving it slowly from right to left; from 

 8.55 to 8.58 on the right side, then turning it in the opposite direction; 

 from 8.58 until 9.00 on the left side of it, revolving it again from 

 right to left. At this time the cocoon was of nearly its final size, almost 

 spherical, its diameter a little greater than the length of her body. 

 The egg mass and the original silken ball were completely covered and 

 hidden by closely matted brownish silk. From 9.00 until 9.17 she 

 crawled slowly over its surface, pressing against it with the tips of her 

 palpi used alternately, evidently to mat down and smooth the whole, 

 the feet being used simply to hold on with. At 9.17 she started 

 applying new anchoring threads to the cocoon, this process continuing 

 until 9.25; this was done by applying the spinnerets directly to the 

 cocoon, then carrying each thread so fastened to an adjacent part of 

 the web; about 15-20 such supporting threads, attached to different 

 parts of the cocoon, were made. She rested until 10.05, then made a 

 few more supporting lines. 



9 No. 202 likewise commenced cocooning by making a ball of curled 

 threads, as did No. 16, her cephalothorax placed above her abdomen 

 during the process. This continued up to 8.28 A.M., when she held 

 her epigynal aperture against the lower surface of the ball and ovi- 

 posited upon it at that point; the oviposition lasted from 8.28 to 8.31, 

 the ova coming slowly out of the genital aperture one at a time and in- 

 cluded in a viscid drop. At 8.32^- she commenced spinning again, 

 covering first the lower surface of the mass of ova, then the sides, the 

 cocoon becoming regular in form by her revolving it. This continued 

 until 9.25 without interruption, when she stopped spinning, and instead 

 slowly revolved the cocoon (now brown in color) and kneaded its 

 surface with her palpi; this continued until 9.45, when she bit loose 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



certain web lines around the cocoon, and fastened new supporting 

 lines to it. 



9 No. 154, after making 3 normal cocoons, all suspended in her web, 

 made a mistake in the construction of her fourth one. On July 24, at 

 8.13 A.]\I., I found her finishing the base (fluffy baU) of the fourth 

 cocoon; but owing to some accident this was not a rounded mass of 

 silk, but a hollow cone hung from its apex by a thick thread ; the form 

 had probably become changed by her weight upon it. From 8.20 

 until 8.23 she clung to this base, pressing her epigynum several times 

 against its lower opening, and from 8.23 to 8.24 she oviposited upon 

 it. But her weight upon the silken base had gradually unraveled the 

 latter, so that it becoming pulled out, the egg mass sank with it to 

 the floor, where all adhered to some dead flies. From 8.24 until 8.40 

 she made several ineffectual attempts to raise it into the web, then she 

 left it and went to cocoon No. 3, spun a cap of silk first around its lower 

 surface, then upon its sides, then kneaded this new covering with heT 

 palpal tips. Evidently she had the impression that she was finishing 

 the cocoon already begun, and seemed to have forgotten the neglected 

 egg mass. At 10.05 she returned to the latter and fed on the eggs, 

 probably confusing them with the dead files to which they adhered ; at 

 10.10 she pulled excitedly at the neglected base, as if trying to raise it, 

 for 6 minutes, but then left it on the fioor and did not return to it again. 

 Thus she had not been able to rectify the misshapen base of the cocoon, 

 and under the impulse to make a covering had made this covering 

 around an already finished cocoon. 



In aU these cocoonings, then, a base of a spherical mass of loosely 

 curled silk is first formed, the ova (included within a viscid drop of 

 fiuid) deposited upon its lower side, then the whole covered with silk, 

 finally this covering kneaded with the ends of the palpi. The reason 

 why the external surface of the cocoon is brown in color I cannot say ; 

 possibly the silk secreted last may be different chemically — i.e., proceed 

 from different spinning tubes. In one case a complete cocoon was 

 made without oviposition. 



A succession of cocoons are formed by the same individual, the num- 

 ber of those made by my captives with the dates of their construction 

 being as follows : 



(1) 9 No. 6: May 19 (the ova did not develop). 



(2) ? No. 16 : May 25 (hatched June 28) ; June 14 (hatched) ; July 7 

 (eggs did not develop); July 14 (eggs did not develop); July 24 

 (hatched); July 31 (only a few of the eggs hatched); August 21 

 (hatched). 7 cocoons in all. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. HI 



(3) o No. 129: June 2 (hatched June 14); June 24. 2 cocoons. 



(4) 9 No. 154 : June 3 (hatched June 15) ; June 8; June 24 (hatched) ; 

 July 24 (this was the incompleted cocoon described above, the ego-s 

 shriveled up); August 6 (eggs did not develop); August 15 (only a 

 few of the ova hatched) ; September 1 (hatched). A total of 7 cocoons. 



(5) 9 No. 156: June 28 (this cocoon contained no ova). 



(6) 9 No. 202: June 14 (hatched June 28); June 24 (hatched July 

 8) ; July 3 (hatched July 14) ; July 12. A total of 4 cocoons. 



(7) 9 No. 204: July 14, the ova after a feAv days were shaken out 

 of this cocoon into a test-tube to see if they Avould develop, and they 

 all hatched on June 26. 



(8) 9 No. 253: July 24 (hatched August 4); July 30; August 6; 

 August 16; August 27. A total of 5 cocoons. 



Probably the rapidity in the succession of the cocoons is directly 

 dependent upon the richness of the food supply. The time of hatching 

 would be dependent, among other factors such as temperature, upon 

 the thickness of the cocoon covering through which the young have 

 to escape. 



Care of the Young. — There seems to be solicitude for neither the 

 cocoons nor the young, though the mother will not eat the latter. 

 The mother does not guard the cocoons, and she stays near them simply 

 because they are generally placed in that highest portion of the web 

 where she is accustomed to dwell. Sometimes on the introduction of 

 a fly, the mother will enshroud it alongside of a cocoon, and after 

 sucking it dry, will cut it, with the cocoon, loose from the web; such 

 fallen cocoons are not lifted again into the web. The young, on hatch- 

 ing, move in the direction of the strongest light, whereas mature indi- 

 viduals avoid the light ; this instinct would serve to scatter them from 

 the maternal home. 



Feeding. — Living prey is recognized entirely by its pulling upon the 

 web lines; and this species is one of the boldest of our local spiders, 

 attacking without hesitation insects and spiders much larger than itself. 

 That is, the females do, but the males are much more timid. A rush 

 is made toward the struggling insect, a line of silk attached to it, and 

 then the spider, hanging by her first pair of legs, apphes the issuing 

 silk thread to the victim's surface by the very rapid application of the 

 three last pairs of legs. Not until the victim is closely enshrouded 

 does the spider bite it, and she enshrouds just up to that point when 

 the victim is rendered motionless by the envelope of silk. Often the 

 enshrouded prey is carried to another part of the web to be eaten; and 

 after being sucked dry is bitten loose from the web and allowed to fall 

 out of it. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Teutana triangulosa Walck. 



This is locally quite a common species in houses, but much less abun- 

 dant than Theridiuyn tepidariorum. 



The following individuals were kept in captivity: d^ No. 173, captured June 

 4, killed by 2 No. 70, June 19; 9 No. 70, captured May 8, killed by accident 

 August 15; 9 No. 153, captured May 28, died July 22; ? No. 176, captured 

 June 5, still li-v-ing. 



Mating. — Four different males of Theridium tepidariorum were 

 placed upon the web of ? No. 70, but she was hostile to each. On 

 three different occasions d^ No. 173, of her own species, was placed 

 upon her web; she signalled to him by pulling upon the web Unes, 

 shaking her first pair of legs, but he avoided and was finally eaten by 

 her. Her mode of signalling was like that of Theridium tepidariorum. 



Cocooning. — ^This process I saw only once. 9 No. 153 was seen at 

 9.05 A.M., June 15, to have spun a small ball composed of looped 

 threads suspended in the web; she continued to add to it until 9.10, 

 holding to the lower surface of the ball ("base" of the cocoon) with her 

 ventral surface turned toward it, raising her spinnerets to apply them 

 to the ball, dropping them, then raising them again for another appli- 

 cation, the length of the "stroke" accounting for the looseness of the 

 threads. At 9.10 she placed her genital aperture close to the lower 

 surface of the silken ball, and deposited there a globular, viscid mass 

 enveloping ova; this oviposition lasted just half a minute. Then she 

 immediately began spinning over the egg mass, laying down long 

 threads upon it, making the covering spherical by revolving her body 

 around the cocoon, whereby she first supported herself by the sur- 

 rounding web lines, later by hanging to the cocoon itself. She stopped 

 spinning at 9.21. The cocoons of this species are snowy white, spheri- 

 cal, and peculiar in that they are so loosely constrvicted that the j^el- 

 lowish egg mass may be seen through them. 



In natural position the cocoons are hung high in the web, generally 

 attached to some object (such as a board) that roofs over the web; 

 in captivity some of the cocoons were attached to the roof of the cage 

 in conformity "Vidth this habit, but as often they are placed lower in 

 the web. In natural conditions, also, the cocoons are generally placed 

 close together, in that part of the web where the spider spends most of 

 her time. 



The number of cocoons made by my captives, and the dates, were as 

 follows : 



(1) $No. 70: May 21, June 3, 15, July 18, 26, August 2, 13. A 

 total of 7 cocoons. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



(2) 9 No. 153: June 2 (hatched June 27), June 8 (hatched August 

 14), June 15 (hatched July 17). A total of 3 cocoons. 



(3) ? No. 176: June 15, 26 (hatched July 16), July 10 (hatched July 

 30), 16, 27, 31, August 5, 15, 21, 28. A total of 10 cocoons. 



Care of Young, Feeding Habits. — I found no indications of maternal 

 guarding of the cocoons or young, liut the mother appears indifferent 

 to both. It is the habit of this species, after sucking a victim dry, to 

 cut it loose from the web, and at such times a cocoon is sometimes cut 

 loose also, and then not raised again into the web. This species is 

 very courageous and rushes at large flies, cjuickly enshrouding them 

 with silk, which is appHed with the fourth pair of legs; sometimes the 

 struggling victim chances to be in contact with a cocoon, and then the 

 spider frequently enshrouds both together. The young cut their own 

 way out of the cocoons. 



Steatoda marmorata (Hentz). 



One male and five females were kept in cages. 



Mating. — cJ^ No. 46 was placed upon the web of a female, both re- 

 mained motionless for a while, then she killed him. Another female 

 killed an introduced male of *S'. borealis (Hentz). 



Cocooning. — This was seen only once, and only the end of the pro- 

 cess observed. At 7.30 A.M., May 28, I found that a female had ovi- 

 posited upon a mass of silk, and was then engaged in spinning over it. 

 The spider held to the cocoon with her feet, and spun upon it (not using 

 the legs to apply the thread) by attaching the spinnerets at one point, 

 elevating them, and applying them again close to the first point of 

 attachment, thus forming loopetl threads; in one minute I counted 

 22 such applications of the spinnerets. The spider in spinning slowly 

 rotates around the cocoon. The cocoon is suspended in the web, white 

 in color, spherical and rather loosely made. In no case were more 

 than 2 cocoons made. 



Feeding Habits. — This species is relatively very powerful and coura- 

 geous, and quickly overcomes its victims by discharging upon them a 

 thread that is remarkably viscid and tenacious; minute viscid drops 

 can be seen upon this thread with the naked eye. This is a process 

 of enshrouding that consists, not in wrapping the victim in threads, 

 but rather in pouring out the very sticky secretion upon it. The spider 

 stands upon her first two pairs of legs with her posterior end toward 

 the object of prey, and applies the viscid thread to the latter with 

 her other legs. 

 8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Linyphia clathrata Westr. 



Moult. — At 6.40 P.M., May 7, I dropped a male of tliis species on to 

 the floor of a cage, and after a few minutes he fell upon his left side 

 and commenced to moult. His palpi and all four pairs of legs were 

 held straight at right angles to his ventral sm'face. The whole process 

 lasted somewhat less than five minutes. The old skin spht by a hori- 

 zontal break, just below the eyes anteriorly, and on the sides just 

 above the legs and along the sides of the abdomen; thus it opened in 

 two pieces, a dorsal and ventral, which remained connected together 

 by a narrow strip close to the spinnerets. His repeated jerking 

 flexions of the cephalothorax gradually freed first liis cephalothorax, 

 then his legs and abdomen. After the moult he rose to his legs, but 

 Avas unable to walk until the expiration of 16 minutes. 



Pholcus phalangioides Fues-sl. PL IV, fig. 3. 



Individuals observed, males: No. 87, captured May 16 on the web of $ No. 86, 

 kiUed by ? No. 82, May 27; No. 88, captured May 17, kiUed by female No. 12 

 the same day; No. 175, captured June 5, died June 7; No. 180, captured June 7, 

 escaped June 16; No. 245, captured June 23, died June 26. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 9, captured April 29, still living; No. 12, 

 captured April 29, died August 15; No. 15, captured May 1, moulted May 24, 

 still living; No. 82, captured May 15, moulted May 22, still living; No. 86, cap- 

 tured May 16 (on the same web with (J No. 87), killed May 31, and immature 

 at death; No. 174 captured June 5 (with a cocoon), died July 5; No. 179, cap- 

 tured June 7. died June 25 (from starvation); No. 181, captured June 7, died 

 August 7. 



Mating. — The following data include the more important observa- 

 tions : 



(1) Q No. 9. On June 5, at 12.49 P.M., after she had been well fed, 

 cJ' No. 175 was placed on her web. He first remained quiet, then 

 touched her with his legs; at 12.56 she reached toward him and he 

 fell from the web. At 1.06 he climbed into the web, and she moved 

 toward him. At 1.25 he hmig below her and touched her fore-legs 

 with his, when she drew her legs away, he continuing to stretch out 

 his first pair of legs toward her. She had in the meanwhile drawTi up 

 to herself a former enshrouded victim, and this intervened between 

 them when, at 1.43, he tried to embrace her, so that he removed it 

 and touched her head with his chelicera. She hung perfectly motion- 

 less in her usual position, her abdomen above her cephalothorax and 

 directed vertically upward. The position of his body was the same, 

 but his legs were outside of hers. At 1.47 he inserted both palpi at 

 once, and hung to her by them, his weight pulling her abdomen into 

 the horizontal plane. The position of the two in copula was then as 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



follows : The female with her abdomen horizontal and ventral surface 

 down, her cephalothorax flexed at an angle downward; thee? below 

 her, his cephalothorax about vertical and his head almost touching 

 the ventral surface of her abdomen at the anterior end of the latter, 

 his abdomen flexed at more than a right angle with his cephalothorax ; 

 the long axis of his abdomen thus made a wdde angle with the long 

 axis of hers, like a V. Thus they continued motionless until 2.19, 

 when he dropped to the floor, and when he attempted to climb into 

 the web again she chased him so vigorously that I removed him. On 

 June 7, at 7.55 P.M., (^ No. 180 was put in; they embraced in copu- 

 latory attitude for a minute, but she moved her legs, and he left her 

 and went to another part of the web. At 8.17 she tried to enshroud 

 him, so I separated them. On June 14 I put in c? No. 180 again, at 

 4.36 P.M. ; he remained quiet for six minutes, then climbed up and 

 touched her, whereupon she made her shaking motion. He then 

 hung beneath her, shaking the web very gently by a swaying of the 

 whole body, she responding in a similar way. At 4.47 she rushed at 

 him, and I removed him. 



(2) ? No. 12 killed and ate mature cJ^ No. 88 on May 17, and an 

 immature c? on May 24, and made her first cocoon on May 27. On 

 June 23, cJ^No. 245 was introduced at 12.12 P.M. (the cocoon had 

 hatched on June 15). At 12.21 he started to move with long pauses, 

 while she was above him in the web and testing his movements by 

 drawing the web lines taut. At 12.28 he inserted his palpi in her 

 epigynum for a second, then fell to a lower position upon the web. 

 At 12.30 he made several attempts to insert both palpi, and succeeded 

 half a minute later. The position of the two was as in the preceding 

 case, she hanging in the web by her posterior three pairs of legs, he 

 hanging to her by his inserted palpi, his anterior three pairs of legs 

 loosely embracing hers (and their claws hooked to web hues), his 

 fourth pair of legs directed behind him and also hooked to web lines. 

 The palpi were inserted by pressing them in this flexed position along 

 the ventral surface of her cephalothorax backward to her epigynum. 

 When inserted, a large vesicle or sac was evaginated from the lateral 

 side of each palpal organ. I watched the copulation from 12.30 to 

 12.55, when I was obhged to leave, and on my return at 1.25 found 

 them separated, he feeding on a beetle which she had previously 

 enshrouded. 



(3) 9 No. 82. I put d" No. 87 with her from May 17 to May 22, 

 when he was repeatedly observed to make advances toward and to 

 touch her, but she acted slightly hostile to him and no copulation was 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



seen. She moulted on May 22. On that day (he had remained all this 

 time in her cage) I watched a curious kind of courtship between them 

 from 8.00 to 9.40 P.M. They hung opposite each other in the web, 

 he by his first pair of legs, she by her first and second, reaching ovit 

 and parrying with their other legs. His head pointed directly down- 

 ward, her body in a horizontal position with the dorsal side down. 

 During this process, which continued with few interruptions during 

 the period of observation, he changed his position only slightly, while 

 she moved about somewhat. Sometimes he made a short advance 

 toward her, then not holding his palpi directed anteriorly (as usual) 

 but with their stalks bent ventrad, so that the large palpal organs were 

 bent upon his cephalothorax ; at each such attempt at copulation the 

 striking of her legs against him seemed to frighten him, and he with- 

 drew. Both became quiet at 10.00. If this was a courtship, she 

 appeared more active in it than he. On May 23, 24 and 25 I watched 

 the pair at intervals, but saw no copulation. But at 10.20 P.^I. on 

 May 26 I found them in copula ; they certainly had not been more than 

 15 minutes in that act. This copulation lasted without interruption to 

 11.31. Then he climbed to the bottom of the cage, when she actively 

 chased him, and finally contented herself with feeding upon a former 

 enshrouded victim. The attitudes of the two were as in the preceding 

 cases, l^oth palpi v.-ere continuously inserted at once, and neither 

 withdrawn, though each at intervals underwent a slight lateral move- 

 ment; they were so firmly fixed in her epigynal apertures as to bear 

 the greater part of his weight; at each side of each palpal organ was 

 clearly visi})le an evaginated, rounded sac, which collapsed after the 

 withdrawal of the palpi. This male had lost his third pair of legs; 

 with his fourth pair directed caudad he hung to the web; the left foot 

 of his second pair was hooked to the tarsus of the left leg of her second 

 pair; the right foot of his second pair was hooked to the tarsus of the 

 right foot of her fourth pair; the left tarsus of his first pair rested 

 against the left tarsus of her fourth pair; and the right tarsus of his 

 first pair rested upon the tarsi of her first and second pairs. Next 

 day she killed this male. 



(4) While her young were scattered upon her web, I put in d^ No. 

 245 to 9 No. 174. At the end of five minutes she rushed at and tried 

 to enshroud him, when I separated them. 



From these observations it is apparent that there is no real court- 

 ship on the part of the male; he approaches her with great caution, 

 tentatively touching her with his legs, and only then attempting copu- 

 lation when she remains immovable under his touches. In all the cases 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



the female attempted to kill the male after copulation, and very fre- 

 quently before; then he escapes by falling from the web, and always 

 approaches her from beneath. The time of copulation varieci from 11 

 to 32 minutes. 



Cocooning. — The making of the cocoon I have not seen, though I 

 have watched pregnant females for long intervals in the hope of seeing 

 it. Pokrowsky (1899) is the only writer who has described this pro- 

 cess. The cc^coon is a very thin, white, silken covering to the globular 

 mass of eggs ; so thin and flimsy that we can be sure that there is a 

 real silken cocoon only by the white case that is left after the young 

 have escaped from it. The number of cocoons furnished by my cap- 

 tives was as follows, each date given representing the time of making 

 of a particular cocoon: $ No. 9, June 24 (hatched July 12), July 26, 

 August 30 (hatched September 23) ; 9 No. 12, May 27 (hatched June 

 15), July 19 (this cocoon was dropped to the floor and did not hatch) ; 

 9 No. 82, June 14 (hatched July 4), July 19 (this cocoon was dropped 

 and did not hatch), August 16 (hatched about September 1), latter 

 half of November, (hatched in December) ; 9 No. 179, June 16 (this was 

 dropped and did not hatch); ? No. 181, June 23 (this was dropped 

 and did not hatch), July 19 (hatched August 4). Thus none produced 

 more than 3 cocoons, and when a cocoon was dropped it did not hatch. 



Care for the Young. — As numerous writers have noticed, the mother 

 carries her cocoon suspended in her jaws. But it has always been 

 stated that the cocoon is carried until the young hatch. While 1 

 have found this to be the case in one or two instances, I have 

 seen more cases where the mother will occasionallv suspend her 

 cocoon temporarily by a line to the web, in order to clean herself and 

 to feed. This is the more remarkable since rough handling does not 

 cause the mother to loose her firm hold upon the cocoon, and her jaws 

 are so firmly imbedded in its lining that, even when she wishes to, 

 she has difficulty in breaking her hold upon it. Perhaps some of these 

 cases where the cocoon falls to the ground are mishaps occasioned by 

 the mother losing her hold upon her cocoon when trying to suspend 

 it upon a thread. That such a suspension is frequent is shown by the 

 following facts: 9 No. 9 held her cocoon continuously in her jaws from 

 June 24 up to July 2; on the latter date I gave her a fly, she chased 

 and quickly enshrouded it, then left it and went to the roof of the cage, 

 where she spun a few fine lines, then with the help of her second and 

 third pairs of legs removed the cocoon from her jaws, held it with 

 these legs while she touched her spinnerets to its surface three times, 

 then left it hanging on the fine lines thus made, antl which were at- 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



tached to the roof by her third pair of legs, and went back and fed 

 upon the fly; after this meal she returned and took the cocoon into 

 her jaws again. She repeated this process next day with another fly, 

 and the day following without a fly being put in. 9 No. 12 was ob- 

 served to do the same operation once with her first cocoon to secure 

 food, and once with her second in order to clean herself. ? No. 82 

 was observed to do so also. ? No. 181 was observed to do so likewise 

 in order to clean herself, and she, when regaining the suspended cocoon, 

 first seized its envelope with her jaws, then with her legs snapped the 

 supporting lines. 



The hatching of the young has been observed before, but never 

 very fully described, so that a few notes may be of interest. ? No. 82 

 was observed on the afternoon of July 4 holding her cocoon in her 

 mouth, the young slowly unfolding themselves, the most superficial 

 first; at 2.40 all the young had unfolded and hung as a great mass to 

 her jaws; at 6.15 all had dispersed and the empty cocoon was hanging 

 in the web. With ? No. 174 the process was noted in more detail. 

 At 8.30 P.M. the young were beginning to unfold their legs at the 

 lower side of the cocoon, which the mother still held in her jaws; the 

 more superficial of the spiderlings stretched themselves, and by the 

 enlacement of their legs together, and enlacement with the legs of 

 those that succeeded them, there was attached to the mother's 

 jaws a great mass of young spiderlings, a mass of a diameter fully 

 equalling the length of the mother's body. Next morning early 

 I found all the young, nearly 60 in number, distributed over the 

 web, the mother motionless near them, and lower in the web 

 the empty cocoon. 9 No. 12 acted differently. On June 15, at 

 2.30 P.M., I found the young spiders beginning to escape from 

 the cocoon, which in this case was suspended from the web, and not 

 from the mother's jaws. At 2.35 she tore away with her jaws a por- 

 tion of the cocoon, which allowed the young to emerge more easily; 

 this she repeated at 2.40 and 2.43, each time avoiding biting the young 

 spiders. By this time about 17 of the young were upon the web, and 

 the mother moved about the young, spinning, and careful not to injure 

 them. At 3.40 I put a large beetle {Chauliognathus sp.) upon her 

 web, which became entangled there and shook the web. For a minute 

 the mother remained quiet, then went to the mass of young which had 

 not yet become scattered, and enshrouded it with silk as she does a 

 victim, but more slowly; then carried it with her jaws. I watched 

 her until 6 o'clock; at intervals she left the enshrouded mass of young 

 hanging on the web, but always returned to it again to take it in her 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



jaws, and sometimes tore at the silken shroud with her jaws. At 6.15 

 she started energetically tearing open the shroud, but all the young 

 did not emerge from this silken envelope until a couple of days had 

 passed. It is difficult to explain this act : did she enshroud the young 

 to protect them from the beetle? Or did she enshroud them mis- 

 taking them temporarily for the beetle? 



Feeding. — It fills one with admiration to watch this feeble spider, 

 with her weak jaws and long hair-like legs, overcoming prey much 

 larger and stronger than herself. It is done by enshrouding the victim 

 with great rapidity. In the operation the spider rushes at the victim, 

 then with cephalothorax up and abdomen down applies with her 

 fourth pair of legs, these legs used in very rapid alternate action and 

 sometimes aided by the third pair, a thread issuing from her spinnerets 

 to the victim, and so within a short time renders it immovable. In 

 case web lines interrupt the free action of her legs, she stops her work 

 to bite these lines loose. The act of enshrouding lasts until the victim 

 is nearly hidden by the thread around it, and completely powerless 

 to move, when the spider carries it hooked to her fourth legs up to a 

 higher place in the web and feeds upon it there. The prey is sucked 

 dry, then cut loose from the web. The agility and strength evinced 

 by this spider is marvelous. 



The Shaking Habit. — ^This is the well-known habit this species has 

 of shaking the body so rapidly by a rotary movement, while in the 

 web, as to render itself almost invisible. Certain Epeirids have the 

 same habit. With Pholcus it is an expression of fear, and is resorted 

 to after the web has been severely jarred. Once a female was seen 

 to shake this way after a male was put upon her web ; but I never saw 

 such a case repeated, and believe that the female was shocked by 

 some action on my part. It is never resorted to in order to secure prey. 



Acrosoma gracile Walck. PL IV, fig. 5. 



This Epeirid, common in many of the local woods, is remarkable for 

 great sexual dimorphism. The abdomen of the female is hard and 

 corneous, angular and prolonged into spines. The male is much 

 smaller than the female and much more rarely found ; his small abdo- 

 men is elongated and without spines. On account of these differ- 

 ences it seemed desirable to observe the mating process. 



9 No. 322 was captured July 23, and died August 11; she made in 

 her cage only the foundation lines of a web, but no orb, and so was 

 unable to catch the insects given her. d^ No. 321 was caught on July 

 23, and died July 28; he also constructed no orb. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Mating. — On July 27, at 9.27 A.M., the male was dropped upon 

 her web. At 9.31 he touched her, and copulated from 9.32^ to 9.42. 

 She hung ventral surface up by her fourth pair of legs to the web lines, 

 her other legs flexed close to the cephalothorax, her thorax horizontal. 

 The male approached her from in front of her head with his long axis 

 also in the horizontal plane, walking upon the upturned ventral sur- 

 face of her cephalothorax and abdomen, when he firmly implanted 

 his outstretched left palpus in her epigynal orifice; then keeping the 

 palpal organ there, he swung his body round so as to bring it on the 

 right side of her abdomen, so that now his head was upmost and a little 

 posterior to her cpigynum, and the long axis of his body was approxi- 

 mately parallel to an imaginary line joining her spinnerets with the 

 most posterior spinous processes of her abdomen. Here he held on 

 firmly with his feet to the roughened surface of her abdomen, prac- 

 tically out of reach of any of her legs, and was not dislodged even 

 though part of the time she climbed about as if trying to get rid of 

 him. A swollen evaginated sac connected with the inserted palpal 

 organ was clearly seen in dilation, and he held his palpus inserted 

 until it had collapsed. He then disengaged himself from her, but 

 returned and copulated again, from 9.55 to 10.03, this time placing 

 himself on the left side of her abdomen and using his right palpus. 

 Then he left her again and remained quiet most of the time up to 10.30. 

 At 10.32 he approached and touched her, she followed him and once 

 embraced him lightly with her legs, but he avoided her. After that 

 she climbed about, and whenever she touched one of the web lines 

 which he was holding, by a sudden contraction of his legs he pulled 

 the line taut; this w^as possibly an amatory signal. I watched the 

 pair continuously up to 1 o'clock, but saw no further copulation nor 

 any preparation for sperm-induction. 



Epeira labyrinthea Hentz. 



Of this alDundant and beautiful Epeirid only two individuals were 

 watched, c? No. 281 was captured July 2, moulted July 5, died about 

 September 1 (from hunger). 9 No. 280 was captured July 2, moulted 

 July 13 and 18, and died (from hunger) about October 1. This 

 species, as well known, fabricates a labyrinth of lines behind a vertical 

 orb; the female made such a complete web, Ijut the male made no 

 orb. 



Mating. — After the female had constructed her web and had made 

 1 cocoon, the male was dropped upon her labyrinth on July 26, at 

 8.07 P.M. She was in her usual position, just beneath her cocoon, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



placed high in the labyrinth. He remained immovable until 8.39, 

 when he began to climb about, alternately advancing toward and 

 retreating from her, spinning threads all the while, she remaining 

 suspended head down near her cocoon, occasionally jerking the web 

 lines with her anterior legs (evidently signaUing), The male finally 

 made two or three quick motions toward her, withdrew each time, then 

 copulated with her at 8.44 and again at 8.44^, Each copulation lasted 

 barely 5 seconds; she hung head down with legs loosely flexed, like 

 the female of Theridhmi tepidariorum, her ventral surface turned 

 toward him; he embraced her legs with his, head downward also, but 

 the copulation was so rapid that I could not determine how he applied 

 his palpi, except that both seemed to be applied simultaneously to 

 her epigynum. He then left her and went to a corner of the cage, 

 where he vigorously cleaned his palpi and legs up to 8.58; while she 

 remained quiet in the same place. There was no sperm-induction up 

 to 10.00 P.M., when I left them together; he remained upon the laby- 

 rinth of her web up to the time of his death, and the pair seemed per- 

 fectly amicable. 



There is no courtship, the male finds the female by pulling upon the 

 lines of the web, and her answering pulls are evidently a signal to him 

 of desire upon her part. In natural conditions several males are 

 often found at once upon the labyrinth of the female. 



Cocooning. — This female constructed five cocoons, on July 26, July 

 31, August 9, August 19, and August 27 respectively. In accord with 

 the well-known habit of the species the cocoons were placed in a chain 

 one below the other, the latest formed cocoon being the lowest; the 

 cocoons are brown in color, biconvex, rather conical above and 

 more rounded below and irregularly circular in greatest outline. 

 Though the process of cocooning was not seen, it is very probable 

 that the cocoon is formed of a base and a cover, and that the 

 base is placed highest, and for these reasons : First, there is a well- 

 marked fine around the equator, showing a union of two parts. Sec- 

 ond, the female, before cocooning, constructs a little tent, in the form 

 of a shallow inverted cone, placed high in the labyrinth, and rests 

 beneath it; this cone is an admirable protection against rain and 

 sunlight, and serves to partially conceal the spider. The males appear 

 not to make such nests. Now when a cocoon is made the female uses 

 this conical nest as the base, thickening it by silk, the eggs are laid in 

 its hollow, then a more nearly flat cover of less diameter is spun to 

 close the mouth of the cone. Then she constructs beneath this cocoon 

 a second nest-cone in which she rests, later incorporates it into a second 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



cocoon; and so all the cocoons are made (frequently up to the number 

 of 6). Here the nest accordingly is later made a part of a cocoon; 

 probably other Epeirids that make similar silken nests will be found 

 to cocoon in much the same fashion, though I know of one exception 

 (Epeira henjamina Walck.). Sitting at twihght during a heavy down- 

 pour of rain beneath some trees for protection, I saw a female of this 

 species constructing the base of her cocoon on the under surface of a 

 leaf, at a considerable distance from her nest (the nest is a leaf curled 

 up and lined with silk). 



Feeding. — The female rests below her conical nest supported high in 

 the labyrinth behind the orb, and holds taut with her feet a line 

 joined to the orb. When a fly becomes stuck to the viscid spirals of 

 the orb, she quickly runs along the drop-line to the orb, kills it by 

 biting (without enshroviding it), carries it back to her nest to suck 

 it dry, then usually leaves the carcass hanging in the labyrinth. The 

 males that are upon the web of a female during the mating season also 

 feed upon insects caught in her orb, carrying the victims to outlying 

 parts of the labyrinth. 



Xysticus stomachosus Keys. PI. V, fig. 7. 



Individuals observed, males: No. 5, captured April 27, moulted May 15, died 

 June 7 on account of injuries incurred in an attempt to escape; No. 108, cap- 

 tured May 19, escaped May 27. 



Individuals observed, females: No. 4, captured April 27, moulted May 10, 

 died August 21 ; No. 109, captured May 19, moulted May 24, still living. 



Moult. — ? No. 4 was found in nearly completed moult at 7.40 P.M., 

 the exuvia adhering then only to the spinnerets. She was lying upon 

 the floor on her left side, with her legs stretched out straight, and later 

 fell over upon her back. She did not rise until 8.03, and 5 minutes 

 later climbed up the wall. This moult has not resulted in any regen- 

 eration of a leg broken off six days before. The old skin was in a dor- 

 sal and a ventral piece separated by a symmetrical horizontal break, 

 as in other spiders. 



c? No. 5 was found at 8.20 P.M., hanging head downward from the 

 exuvia, which was fastened to the wall; he did not move until 8.38, 

 and did not break away entirely from the exuvia until 8.43. 



Mating. — ^This w^as studied by keeping a male and a female in the 

 two compartments of a partition cage, removing the partition to see 

 the mating ; the spiders showed that they saw each other through the 

 glass partition. 



d^ No. 5 was placed with ? No. 4 on a number of occasions prior to 

 May 10, the date of her final moult, and on May 13, but he avoided 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



her each time. On May 15 he completed his final moult, but on the 

 next day he avoided her again; this would show that sexual ardor 

 may not show itself in the male immediately after the final moult 

 On May 17 they were put together at 8.00 P.M. Both remained 

 perfectly quiet within an inch up to 8.57, when she moved toward 

 him with her first two pairs of legs outstretched; he quickly reached 

 out his corresponding legs, seized the feet of her right fore-legs with 

 his right fore-legs, and holding them thus (only themetatarsi in contact) 

 he quickly revolved around her and climbed upon her back from be- 

 hind. She immediately became immobile with her legs flexed close to 

 her body. He turned about upon her back, holding her with his legs, 

 and feehng her with his palpi. At 9.02 he reached his head downward 

 over the posterior end of her abdomen, placed the ventral surface of 

 his cephalothorax against the ventral surface of her abdomen so that 

 his head was posterior to her epigynum, his abdomen accordingly 

 extending behind hers and tilted upward; his third and fourth pairs 

 of legs held tightly to her abdomen, while his first and second pairs 

 were directed forward to embrace her legs. One palpus at a time he 

 then extended straight forward and applied to her epigynmn. The 

 number of palpal apphcations was, using the abbreviations r and I 

 for right and left respectively, the first numbers expressing the time 

 extent, the second the number of insertions: r, 9.08-9.12, 8; 1, 9.12- 

 9.13^, 6; r, 9.13^-9.36^, 9, the last time inserted continuously from 

 9.21 to 9.36^. The black spine connected with the palpal organ was 

 pressed into her epigynal aperture, and when so inserted an evagi- 

 nated sac connected with the concave surface of the organ expanded 

 and collapsed after the withdrawal of the palpus from the epigynum ; 

 before another insertion the palpal organ was drawn through the 

 chehcera. At 9.38 he moved half an inch away, and she rose suddenly 

 at 9.41. 



The same 9 , No. 4, copulated several times with this male. No. 5 

 On each occasion their attitudes were the same. The following notes 

 give concisely the duration of time and the number of applications of 

 the palpi, as well the mode of approach of the male. 



(1) May 18, as soon as he touched her he immediately mounted upon 

 her back, at 12.09 P.M.; palpi applied as follows: r, 12.16^12.21, 9; 

 r, 12.21-12. 3H, inserted continuously. Then he walked half an inch 

 away, returned and copulated again; r, 12.37-12.41, 2 or 3; he then 

 left and again tried to return, but she repulsed him. 



(2) May 19, by touching him I brought him in contact with her 

 he mounted her, and made the following palpal applications: 1, 8.28- 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



8.30, 4, not effectively inserted; 1, 8.31-8.33, 1; 1, 8.34-8.34^, 1, 

 1, 8.35^-8.36; 1, 8.36^-8.42; 1, 8.42^-8.43; 1, 8.43^-8.44; 1, 8.44-8.46 

 1; 1, 8.46^-8.47; 1, 8.47^-8.50; 1, 8.50-8.51; 1,, 8.53-8.53^; 1, 8.54^- 

 8.57^. Then she rose and shook him off. 



(3) May 21, at 10.17 P.M., he touched her, kept quiet for half a min- 

 ute, then climbed upon her. He left her for a few seconds at 10.25 

 then returned and apphed his palpi as follows: 1, 10.29^-10.35, 5; r, 

 10.35* to 10.36, 6; 1, 10.38^ to 10.41; r, 10.44i-10.46, several times 

 1. 10.4"6 to 10.48, several times; 1, 10.48-10.48i 1; r, 10.48^-10.491, 1 

 r, 10.49^0.51; r, 10.51-10.52^, 4; 1, 10.53-10.55, 4; 1. 10.55-10.58, 1 

 r, 10.58-11.08, continuously; 1, 11.08-11.12, 1; r, 11. 121-11. 17. He 

 then got upon her back, remained quiet there for a while, then I sepa- 

 rated them. 



(4) ]\Iay 23, he mounted her at 3.34 P.M. Then the two being in 

 an unfavorable place for study, I pushed them to another place with 

 a pen-handle; she gripped it, and I was obhged to shake roughly to 

 make her leave go, but he did not loosen his hold upon her, and as soon 

 as she had lost her grasp upon the pen-handle she immediately became 

 motionless again with flexed legs. He apphed his palpi as follows: 

 r, 3.39-3.40, 6; 1, 3.42-3.45, 1; r, 3.45^-3.46, 1; 1, 3.46-3.461, 1; 1, 

 3.47-3.50, 1; 1, 3.51-3.52, l;r, 3.521-3.54; 1, 3.54-4.00; then he 

 walked off for a minute but returned; r, 4.03-4.04^, 1; 1, 4.04+-4.07; 

 r, 4.08-4.11 ; 1, 4.12-4.13. He then left her, returned, did so again, but 

 at 4.14 she arose. 



(5) May 28, he was placed with her from 9.24-9.50 P.M., but there 

 was no copulation. 



(6) May 29, the male mounted her at 8.45 P.M. Palpal apph- 

 cations: 1, 9.53-9.56^, 6; r, 9.56^9.58^, 2. Then she began to walk 

 about and carried him out of the open cage, and in putting them back 

 I separated them. 



(7) June 3, 8.31 P.M. She moved so as to touch him, and a minute 

 later he mounted her. Palpal applications: 1, 8.37^-8.39, several 

 times; r, 8.39-8.40^, several times; 1, 8.40^8.45, continuously; 1, 

 8.45^-8.57, continuously; r, 8.57^-9.01, several times; r, 9.01-9.03. 

 At 9.05 he got upon her dorsal side again, a minute later she rose and 

 walked off with him clinging to her. She dislodged him at 9.09, but 

 a minute later he mounted her again, used his right palpus from 9.12 

 -9.13, then she rose and escaped from him. 



9 No. 109 copulated with 6" No. 108 on May 24, and on May 25 ; 

 the attitudes were as in the previous cases. On May 29 she was rather 

 hostile to him, and whenever he tried to grasp her she ran off. Once 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



with his first two pairs of legs he parried Avith hers for more than a 

 minute, evidently trying to grasp them; then he sidled off, and when 

 he returned she grasped him with her legs, and finally she gripped 

 fiercely at him. 



The descriptions here given may seem unnecessarily full, but they 

 are given to show the variations in the mode of copulation, a greater 

 variation than I have observed in any other species. In one copula- 

 tion only one of the palpi was used; in the others both palpi, but in 

 irregular alternation. The earlier palpal applications in each copula- 

 tion are mainly ineffective, the palpal organ not being thoroughly in- 

 serted, and a considerable part of the time is occupied in working the 

 palpal organ through the chelicera. Peculiar for this species is the 

 fact of the male sometimes interrupting the copulation by leaving the 

 female for a minute, then returning and resuming it. The longest 

 period of copulation was 48 minutes. 



There is no courtship on the part of the male, nor any instigation 

 by the female. When the male is first put into the cage of a female, 

 even though he faces her, he does not seem to recognize her as such 

 by sight, and pays no attention to her until he touches her, when he 

 quickly gets upon her back, ^[y custom was to push him up to the 

 female. He is considerably the smaller and the more active; arid 

 when upon her back he is secure from her legs, and is not easily dis- 

 lodged by her. He. mounts upon her from behind, out of reach of her 

 long and dangerous fore-legs, and when he is mounted she immediately 

 becomes still. His smaller size and greater activity enable him to 

 accomplish his purpose, quickness overcoming strength. Seeing the 

 male upon the female, one involuntarily thinks of the Old Man of the 

 Sea, who cannot be dislodged. 



Cocooning. — For some two weeks before making her cocoon 9 No. 4 

 spun a network of web-lines across her cage, so dense that she frequently 

 became entangled in them, and I was obliged to clean them away. 

 But this is probably not to be considered a web-making, but simply 

 the habit this species has of drawing out a thread behind when walking, 

 a " drop-line" by which it can find its way back. On July 5, however, 

 she made quite a dense sheet of silk in a corner of the cage, completely 

 enclosing her and inclined at an angle from the floor to the walls. 

 Within this she made, in the early morning of July 9, her only cocoon ; 

 this cocoon was inclined at an angle to the floor, fastened to the scaffold- 

 ing, flattened, unevenly circular in outline, and white in color. It did 

 not hatch. 



9 No. 109 built on July 5, at the angle of two walls of her cage with 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the floor, a similar sheet-like tent; and on July 9 made ■ her cocoon 

 ^^•ithin it. This cocoon was roughly quadrangular in outUne and 

 flattened. It did not hatch. 



Care of the Young. — The cocoon is guarded by the mother, who lies 

 upon it and embraces it tightly with her legs. 9 No. 4 would not leave 

 her cocoon to secure living food during the first ten days, but clung 

 tenaciously to it ; but after that she would leave it to chase prey, and 

 afterward would return to the cocoon, or at least to the silk sheet 

 placed before it. By climbing many times upon this silk sheet she 

 gradually demohshed it. 9 No. 109 at first held her cocoon zealously, 

 then neglected it for several days, and finally at this time, October 4, 

 is embracing it again. 

 PMlodromus aureolus Walck. 



Cocooning. — A female of this species made 6 cocoons, on she follow- 

 ing dates respectively: July 3, 30, August 9, 21, 27, September 6. All 

 these were normal cocoons except one, which I disturbed in the pro- 

 cess of making, but the eggs of none of them hatched. The first three 

 cocoons were placed side by side at the angle of the wall and the roof 

 of the cage, the others at the angle of the wall and the floor. The 

 mother constantly stands with outstretched legs over the most recent 

 cocoon. 



Each cocoon is a flattened disk of rather loose white threads, and 

 the mode of architecture shows that the mass of ova had been laid upon 

 the surface of the lower disk (base), and then overspun with another 

 disk (cover). But a peculiarity is a third disk of silk, concentric with 

 but at a distance of about 2 mm. from the cover of the cocoon — the 

 final protection, on which the mother stands. 

 Prosthesima sp.s 



Cocooning. — On June 14, at 8.45 P.M., I saw a female just finishing 

 her cocoon, which was discoidal in shape. She placed her feet upon 

 its margin, and brushed her spinnerets from side to side across its 

 surface. This was her second cocoon, and at 10.05 she started spin- 

 ning again upon the wall of the cage, used her spinnerets as before, and 

 continuing steadily up to 11.50, when I ceased to watch her. She had 

 then made a thick silken covering, about four times her length in one 

 direction, and half so long in the other. But she did not oviposit upon 

 this surface, so that I cannot tell whether it was an abnormal cocoon 

 or not. 



^Mr. Banks wrote me that this species comes closest to P. insularis Banks, 

 but is different from it. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Thargalia brivittata (Keys.). 



Cocooning. — The end of this process only was seen. The discoidal 

 cocoon was satiny-white and placed at the angle of the floor and wall 

 of the cage ; its base was closely apposed to these surfaces so as to be 

 bent at a right angle, while the cover (of smaller diameter than the 

 base) was arched from the floor to the wall. In completing this cover 

 the spider brushes her spinnerets more forward and backward than 

 from side to side, flexing her body about energetically, while keeping 

 her feet in one position upon the edge of the cocoon ; then she changes 

 her position over the cocoon, and repeats this process. I watched 

 her in this process for half an hour, after which she covered the surface 

 of the cocoon with small particles of dirt. 

 Drassus neglectus Keys. 



Guarding of the Cocoon. — A female of this species was caught on 

 June 10, and made a thick web within her cage. On the evening of 

 July 7 she made her cocoon, which was white in color, discoidal with 

 circular outline, one side flattened and the opposite side somewhat 

 arched. This cocoon was loose, nof fastened to any object, and she 

 held its margin with her chelicera, pressing her cephalothorax against 

 it and at times partially embracing it with her legs. Most of the time 

 she held it in one corner of the cage, but sometimes carried it about 

 to different portions of the cage. When I touched her she still clung 

 to it without moving; flies w^ere put in her cage almost daily, but she 

 paid no attention to them, even though at times they touched her. She 

 died on July 21, still holding the cocoon in death. 



This observation is narrated, since I know of no other Drassid that 

 guards its cocoon so carefully, nor of any that makes such a thick and 

 large web. 



General Considerations. 



History of Our Knowledge. — In 1701 Leeuwenhoek, the father of 

 histology, wrote: "I never was so happy as to see the Spiders couple, 

 .... but what shall we say, the Coition of Spiders must differ funda- 

 mentally from other Creatures, since their Matrix is placed in the upper 

 part of their Belly." He did not know of the observations of Lister, 

 who in 1678 discovered that the male spider fertilizes the female by 

 applying the enlarged terminal joint of his maxillary palpus to her 

 epigynum. The discovery has been confirmed by a long list of obser- 

 vers, though a list small in comparison with the number who have 

 sought in vain to see the process : Ausserer, Bertkau, Blackwall, Camp- 

 bell, Clerck, De Geer, Duges, Emerton, Fickert, Hassclt, Hentz, Her- 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



man, Lendl, Lesser, McCook, Menge (in numerous species), the Peck- 

 hams, Ritsema, Seidel, Treat, Walckenaer, Westberg. These confirm- 

 atory observations, embracing species of all the larger araneid families, 

 make it very probable that in all modern Araneids the male transfers 

 the sperm to the female by means of his palpi. Two writers have com- 

 bated this conclusion: Treviranus, who first discovered the testes of 

 spiders and, finding no organic connection between these organs and 

 the palpi, maintained that the application of the male palpi to the 

 epigynum is probably not real copulation, but rather a preliminary 

 act of stimulation; and Cambridge, who states he observed two indi- 

 viduals of a Lycosa in coition, with their genital apertures in apposition. 

 In view of the numerous observations on this act in Lycosa, I have no 

 hesitation in stamping Cambridge's assertion as erroneous. In all 

 the families where the act has been seen, accordingly, the palpal 

 organs are the transmitters of the semen. 



Now though Treviranus showed conclusively that there is no organic 

 connection between the testes, or the vasa deferentia, and the peculi- 

 arly modified palpal organs, som6 later writers, particularly Cambridge 

 and Herman, insisted that there must be some such tubular connection, 

 in order to explain the presence of spermatozoa in the palpal organs. 

 The results of all other anatomists, however, have corroborated 

 Treviranus, and Menge discovered, first in the year 1843, how the 

 sperm is brought from the genital aperture into the tubular appa- 

 ratus of the palpal organs. In that paper of 1843, an arachnological 

 classic, he described the process for Linyphia triangularis and Agalena 

 labyrinthica, showing that the male constructs a little silken bridge 

 or "Steg," deposits a drop of sperm from his genital aperture upon it, 

 then applies his palpal organs alternately to the drop until they have 

 absorbed it all ; then, and not till then, is the male ready for copulation. 

 This process of charging the palpi with sperm, which I have termed 

 here "sperm-induction," was described by Menge later also for Tapi- 

 nopa longidens, Agalena similis and Micrommata virescens. The only 

 other writers who have described this process are Blackwall (1863, 

 in Agalena labyrinthica), Ausserer (1867, in Dictyna benigna and Liny- 

 phia triangularis), Bertkau (1875, 1876, in Philoica domestica, Linyphia 

 montana and Clubiona comta), Westberg (1900, in Linyphia triangu- 

 laris). To these may be added my present observation on Lycosa 

 stonei, L. ocreata pulchra, Tegenaria derhami, Theridium tepidariorum 

 and Dictyna volupis (here seen twice) . Hasselt was unable to see this 

 process himself, and on that account doubted whether it is of general 

 occurrence among spiders. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



The Mode of Embrace in Copulation. — Grouping together my own 

 observations with those of other naturahsts, and bracketing the author- 

 ity for each case, the following modes of embrace may be distinguished 

 in spiders: 



(1) — The male above the female with his ventral surface apposed to 

 her dorsal, their heads pointii:kg in opposite directions, 



(a) — Female with her sternum down: Lycosa stonei, L. ocreata 

 pulchra, L. scutulata (Montgomery), L. monticola (Clerck), 

 L. amenfata, L. rurestris (Menge) ; Trochosa infernalis 

 (Lendl), T. terricola (Menge); Pardosa nigropalpis (Mont- 

 gomery) ; Sparassus (Bertkau) ; Epihlemum scenicum, 

 Attida, Enophrys reticulata (Menge), Attus scenicus 

 (De Geer) ; Phrurolithus festivus, Melanophora nocturna 

 (Menge). 



(6) — Female partially upon her side: Agalena noevia (Emerton, 

 Montgomery), A. labyrinthica (Duges, Menge, Walck- 

 enaer), A. similis (Menge). 

 (2) — The head of the male facing the head of the female, their bodies 

 in one line, 



(a) — Male with his dorsum directed upward, female partially 

 upon her side: Tegenaria derhami (Montgomery). 



(6) — Both with ventral surfaces directed upward, bodies hori- 

 zontal: Linyphia marginata (Emerton, McCook), ?Stea- 

 toda horealis (Emerton). 



(3)- — Ventral surfaces of the pair apposed, sternum against sternum, 

 heads directed in opposite directions, 

 (a) — Copulation vipon a web: Argenna (Bertkau), Linyphia mon- 



tana (Clerck), Linyphia triangularis (De Geer, Menge). 

 (6) — Copulation upon the ground, 



(6') — Male below the female: Argyroneta aquatica (Walck- 



enaer), Chiracanthium oncognathus (Menge). 

 (b") — Male above the female : Clubiona trivialis (Menge). 

 (4) — Male holding to the side of the abdomen of the female, his long 



axis at right angles to hers: Acrosoma gracile (Montgomery). 

 (5) — Male with his ventral surface apposed to the posterior and ventral 

 surface of the abdomen of the female, their heads turned in 

 the same direction: Xysticus audax (Prach), .Y. triguttatus 

 (Emerton), X. stomachosus (Montgomery), Misumena vatia 

 (De Geer), Micrommata virescens (Menge). 

 (6) — Ventral surface of the male turned toward the ventral surface of 

 the female, their heads turned in the same direction, copula- 

 tion in a web, 

 (a) — Bodies not in actual contact, but heads converging : Epeira 

 labyrinthea (Montgomery), E. diadcmata (Menge, Lendl), 

 Theridium tepidariorum, Pholcus phalangioicles (Mont- 

 gomery) . 



9 




130 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



(h) — Long axes of the bodies converging so that the forehead of 

 the male touches the sternum of the female: Dictyna 

 volupis (Emerton, IVIontgomery) , D. benignum (Walck- 

 enaer), Micryphantes rurestris (Hasselt). 



(c) — Male with his sternum apposed to that of the female: 

 Dictyna ammophila (Menge). 



(d) — Male apposed to the ventral surface of the abdomen of the 

 female: Nephila, Argiope (Emerton), Meta segmentata, 

 Asagena serratipes (Menge). 



(e) — Male holding the chelicera of the female with his own, the 

 abdomen of the female flexed ventrad : Pachygnatha listeri 

 (Menge), Tetragnatha extensa (Bertkau, Duges, Menge, 

 Lister, Walckenaer) . 



The following table illustrates the distribution of these modes of 

 embrace among the families observed : 



Familv. 



la 



LycosidcB . ... 



SparassidcB . . 



Attidce 



Drassidw . . . . 

 Agalenidm . . 

 Theridiidm . . 

 Argyronetidm 

 EpeiridoE . . . . 

 Thomisidm . . . 



PJiolcidm 



Dictynidce . . . 



Mode of Embrace. 



16 



+ 



+ 



26 



+ 



3a 



+ 



36 



+ 



+ 



66 



+ 



+ 



6d 



+ 



The species which have been observed are too few to allow broad 

 generalizations, but the following points may be noted. In all the 

 species it is the male that embraces the female, she remaining motion- 

 less ; the male embraces with his legs, and in Tetragnatha and Pachyg- 

 natha with his chelicera also. The mode of embrace may well be 

 dependent upon one of several different factors: (1) relative size of 

 male and female; (2) differences in their form; (3) differences in 

 place of copulation (whether upon a web or upon the ground). The 

 fact that the typical terrestrial spiders which do not build webs 

 (Lycosidce, Sparassidce, Attidce, certain Drassidcc) all show the same 

 mode of embrace might point to similarity of place of copulation, in 

 unison with the running and hunting habits of these species, inducing 

 similarity of mode of embrace, and be referable to the third factor; 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



while the diversity of embrace in the web-making species may be in 

 part due to differences in the web construction, in part to degree of 

 sexual dimorphism. The Epeiridce and Theridiidce show the greatest 

 diversity of embrace, and in these families is to be found also the great- 

 est sexual dimorphism. In other words, the mode of embrace may be 

 brought into more or less conformity with the general mode of life of 

 the species. Similarity of embrace points, then, to similarity of 

 other habits, but not necessarily to community of descent. No spider 

 shows the attitude of embrace common among insects, namely the 

 male above the female with his head pointed in the same direction as 

 hers. 



Details of the Process of Copulation. — The following table combines 

 data of the other observers with my own upon the details of copula- 

 tion. Where a species has been entered more than once, each repeti- 

 tion denotes a separate act of copulation. In the column "Duration 

 of Copulation," h, m, s, signify hour, minute and second respectively. 

 In the column headed "Simultaneous," the sign X denotes that both 

 palpi are inserted at once, and the sign — that they are not. In the 

 column headed "Alternated," the sign X indicates that the right and 

 left palpi are inserted alternately, but that the number of alternations 

 was not noted ; the sign — ,that only one palpus is employed ; while a 

 number expresses the number of alternations of the right and left 

 palpi. In the columns headed "Right Palp" and "Left Palp," a num- 

 ber enclosed in brackets denotes the average number of times one pal- 

 pus is inserted successively before the other palpus is inserted, 

 this average being obtained by dividing the total number of in- 

 sertions of that particular palpus by the total number of alternations 

 of the palpi. Spaces left vacant in the columns denote lack of 

 observations. For the great number of small details that cannot 

 be reproduced in such a table, the reader is referred to the obser- 

 vational part of this paper, and to the works mentioned in the 

 literature list. 




132 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan. 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



133 



OOC^l-l-l-l l-tTH,-l-i— I 



T-t 1-1 «OTj<1-(t-li— Ii-IWOJt-Ii-I -i-Ii-IM 







+ ++I I ^^+1 I I 



I I 



CQ 1-1 T-H T-l • 



s ^ 



+ MM M M M M M M M M M I i I 



c s 

 C.2 





^ a c 1-1 



j2 1-1 L3 eo •'-^ 



irai- CO ^ §^ g^i'^ S 



(N 1-1 <M ■* 1-1 <N ec « "^i -^ lO -^ (M -^l 



^ 





00 rj 



a 2 



ii-KMCOC-^COtH^ 



o 2 « 



O 2 a S S a 



CJ '^ <u ■» *» * 



s 



o 



O s 



R § c d 



s s s s 



a" 



s a ft 



. « <o ■» 



^ « 



.si « "S r2 .?i, « 



Sje 



^i. 

 <» *? 





?>, s « S 





•at^aiiaiaanx 



« ■ S, 

 5. * § 



S 5=' S 



?»•§■§ 



o ? « <5 



S ? 5~ "^ 





•5Fai^IIAX:)IQ 



•a^aIK3^vov 



•SFQISSYHQ 




134 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



50 



o a 



C.2 



Ctj 



CD -<J* «D t- 



§i 



t- (M t- O 



+ +' 





H^i Ak ^ H ^ '^i "*-! '^ 



« 



•^ 



?2 s 2 

 V e s 



^•ss 



S S S s s 



•a'aixxy -a-aieiKOHX 



eoe*-«**ect- « (N « 



C5 1-H T-i eo 1-1 



++ + 



a 



^^ 

 ^ a> 3 



S !-. o 



s g s 



<5i ^ V 



a, 



»iS^ 



•a'aioiOHj 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



From these data we may conclude : 



(1) That the time duration of a copulation varies from a second, 

 or a few seconds, to as much as 36 hours. When the copulation is 

 very brief it is probably frequently repeated many times, a number 

 of times in quick succession (as certain Epeirids), or repeated a number 

 of times on successive days (cf. my observations on Theridium tepi- 

 dariorum). When it is of some hours in duration, the female fre- 

 quently, but not always, kills the male at its conclusion (certain 

 Lycosids and Agalenids). 



(2) That the simultaneous insertion of both male palpi in the epi- 

 gynum is unusual {Pholcus, certain Theridiids). INIost frequently 

 either (a) only one palpus is used during the act, or (b) the palpi are 

 alternated ; sometimes the same male may use only one palpus during 

 one copulation, and both palpi during another {Didyna volupis, 

 Xysticus stomachosus) . When the palpi are alternated, either (a) one 

 of them may be used (continuously or with successive insertions) 

 during the first half of the copulation, and the other palpus for the 

 second half; or (6) the palpi may be frequently alternated, a strict 

 alternation of right and left after each insertion, or else one may be 

 inserted a number of times before the other is used. 



(3) That in all cases described in sufficient detail there has been 

 noted the appearance, during insertion in the epigynum, of an evagi- 

 nated, swollen sac connected with the palpal organ; the organ is not 

 withdrawn from the epigynum until this sac collapses; this sac may 

 expand and contract rhythmically in long insertions. After the with- 

 drawal of a palpus from the epigynal orifice, the male works the palpal 

 organ between his chelicera — apparently to moisten it, as has been 

 suggested by one observer. 



(4) That within a species there is to be found considerable individ- 

 ual variations in the details of copulation. 



(5) That a particular araneid family, as at present defined, may 

 contain species which differ quite markedly in the details of their 

 copulation : the Epeiridcv are an example. 



The Sperm-induct inn, and the Origin of the Araneid Mode of Copu- 

 lation. — In the section entitled "History of Our Knowledge" all the 

 known cases of sperm-induction are mentioned. In all these cases 

 the male deposits a minute drop of semen upon a portion of web, and 

 takes up this drop into his palpal organs by applying the latter to it, 

 then shaking them in the air. There appear, however, to be some 

 difference in the details in different species. Thus the male sometimes 

 spins a special small sheet or bridge over which he stands, and on 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



which he deposits the semen {Linypliia triangularis, Agalena laby- 

 rinthica, Tapinopa longidens, Agalena similis, Micrommata virescens, 

 Dictyna benigna, Philoica domestica, Linyphia montana, Clubiona 

 cornta, Lycosa stonei, L. ocreata pulchra, Tegenaria derhami, Dictyna 

 volupis); and sometimes he makes no special sheeting, but deposits the 

 semen upon a strand of the domicile web (Theridiimi tepidariorum) . 

 In those species where the male does not construct a domicile web, 

 but lives upon the ground, as in the Lycosidce and Drassidce, the male 

 always spins a small sheeting to catch the drop of semen, and this 

 is his only spinning act during his mature life; species that live in 

 webs also generally construct a special sheeting for the semen. There 

 is no known case of the male charging his palpi by placing them 

 directly against the genital aperture. In order to see this act the 

 observer should remove the male from the female immediately after 

 a completed copulation, one which has exhausted the palpi of the 

 seminal fluid, and watch for an act of sperm-induction; that is the only 

 time when one may expect it with some certainty. In some species 

 the male may copulate several times, and frequently charges his 

 palpi with semen before repeating an act of copulation. 



This is a very wonderful process: the male discharges semen upon 

 a web, takes up this semen into his palpal organs, and with the latter 

 applies the semen to the genital aperture of the female. There are, 

 in a sense, two separate acts of seminal discharge, and at each of them, 

 but most particularly in the second, the male shows very e\adent 

 gratification. Xo one, to my knowledge, has endeavored to account 

 for such a double process, which is essentially different from the 

 "hektocotyly" of Cephalopods. It is definitely determined that the 

 palpi (pedipalpi) of araneids and other arachnids have, in the mature 

 state, no organic connection with the testes or vasa deferentia, that 

 there are no tubes connecting the palpal organs with the organs in 

 which the spermatozoa develop. In the ontogenetic development the 

 palpi appear at first similar to the other extremities, and are separated 

 from the genital aperture by four segments of the cephalothorax, each 

 bearing a pair of appendages. Accordingly there is neither anatomical 

 nor embryological reason for supposing that the palpi ever had been 

 appendages of the genital aperture, which had later moved forward 

 from the region of the genital aperture; they are true thoracic append- 

 ages, and not abdominal. Now the pedipalpi of Limulus in the male 

 terminate each in a large swollen knob, which is used in the copulation 

 as a clasper of the female; and in Limulus the distal end of each of 

 these swollen joints opens to the exterior by a minute aperture, which 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



is readily determined on dissection. The fact that Limulus is a true 

 arachnid, and probably a relatively primitive one, allows us to use 

 these peculiarities of structure as a partial basis for explaining the 

 araneid mode of copulation; though the following reasoning would 

 hold equally good, even if Limulus should be left out of the question. 

 The palpal organs of male araneids must have been originally clasping 

 organs, to hold the female. Supposing the terminal joints of the male 

 palpi clasped the female in the region of her genital aperture, around 

 which developed a hard chitinous plate, tKe epigynum, which would 

 allow a firm hold without injury to the female, then if the original mode 

 of embrace were that where the ventral surfaces of the copulating indi- 

 viduals were apposed, these two suppositions would explain the copu- 

 lation of modern araneids. Depressions in the epigynum would be 

 developed to correspond to projections upon the palpal organs. The 

 surfaces of the palpal organs, which are apposed to one another during 

 the act of clasping, could become in time so modified as to form to- 

 gether a tube to guide the seminal fluid from the genital aperture of 

 the male into that of the female. They would thus change from mere 

 clasping organs to intromittent sexual organs, and then perhaps the 

 other legs come into use as clasping organs, which is their use in copu- 

 lation in modern araneids. Subsequent would be the development 

 of the complicated tubular apparatus within each palpal organ; and 

 when this were finally developed, the habit of charging the palpi with 

 sperm before the copulation would be involved, and then diversity in 

 embrace and modes of application of the palpi could follow. 



There is still another thinkable mode of origin of the araneid mode 

 of copulation. The pedipalpi might be used, not as claspers in the 

 first instance, but to carry drops of semen during the act of copulation 

 from the genital aperture of the male to that of the female; later, 

 the male during copulation might discharge his semen upon the web, 

 and then take up the semen with his palpi and apply it to the female ; 

 still later, the charging of the palpi with the semen would come to be 

 an act separate from the copulation. 



One or the other of these has been probably the mode of origin of 

 the habit, but which cannot be decided until observations have been 

 made upon the mating of the most primitive living araneids, the 

 Tetrapneumones. Very apposite in this connection arc the interesting 

 and detailed observations of my friend Heymons* upon Galeodes. 

 In this primitive arachnid the male forcibly seizes the female, holds 



^"Biologische Beobachtungen an asiatischen Solifugen," Abh. Preuss. Akad. 

 Wiss. Berlin, 1901. 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan. 



her with her legs, she falUng into a state of torpor in his embrace. 

 With his chehcera he pinches the ventral surface of her abdomen, 

 which is turned toward his. until he finds the cleft of her genital 

 orifice. "Die Cheliceren werden herausgezogen. nochmals eingebohrt, 

 und das Mannchen kneift auch wohl wiederholt mit denselben in die 

 weichen Wandungen des Ostium genitale. Es dauert nicht lange. so 

 tritt die ganze weibliche Genitalpartie wulstformig hervor, und die 

 Genitaloffnung wird als ein klaffender Spalt erkennbar. Die Erregung 

 des Mannchens hat nunmehr den Hohepunkt erreicht ; zitternd bewegt 

 es beide Maxillarpalpen und hebt den Hinterleib ein wenig, aus dessen 

 Genitaloffnung ein zahfliissiger klebriger Spermaballen hervorciuillt. 

 Kaum ist dieser auf den Boden gelangt, so -^drd er auch schon blitz- 

 schnell von den Cheliceren des Mannchens aufgenommen und an die 

 weibliche Genitaloffnung gebracht. Hierauf stopft das Mannchen, 

 abwechselnd die rechte und linke Chelicere benutzend, die zahe Sperma- 

 masse in die Oeffnung hinein, wobei es ^\^eder mit grosser Gewalt- 

 thatigkeit zu Werke geht." The process is simpler in Gakodes, inas- 

 much as the sperm is discharged during the act of copulation, and 

 inasmuch as the terminal joints of the chelicera do not possess any 

 intricate tubular apparatus for holding the sperm. But the araneid 

 copulation cannot be derived from the galeolid, since in the former the 

 pedipalpi, in the latter the chelicera, are employed. In the Acarina 

 and Scorpionidea there are intromittent organs (penis) in the male, 

 placed near the genital orifice.' 



Number of Copulations. — In araneids the male is able to perform a 

 nimiber of successive copulations, with the same or with different 

 females, without being exhausted; this fact may be brought into rela- 

 tion with the fact that before each act of sperm-induction only a small 

 drop of sperm is discharged, and by no means the whole contents of 

 the testes. One act of fertilization is in some cases sufficient to fer- 

 tilize a number of cocoons, yet not infrequently several distinct copu- 

 lations may precede one cocooning. This is in contrast to the case in 

 insects, where the male generally performs a single act of copulation, 

 and dies of exhaustion after it. The female sometimes kills the male 

 after copulation, but this is by no means so general as usually supposed, 



"In all insects the intromittent organ of the male is organicalh^ connected 

 with the vas deferens, except in the Odonaia where, as is well known, this organ 

 is placed on the second abdominal segment, and the male holds the head of the 

 female with the claspers of his last abdominal segment. My colleague, Dr. 

 P. P. Calvert, the well-kno-mi monographer of the Odonata, tells me that he has 

 seen the male charge his penis with semen just before copulation by bringing 

 his sexual orifice against this organ. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 139 



for frequently both sexes may live in harmony for a considerable 

 length of time. The reason that in many species the females appear 

 more abundant than the males (particularly in Epeiridce), is not to 

 be ascribed to any initial disparity in the number of the sexes, nor yet 

 to the males being killed by the females, but to the females being of 

 stronger constitution. Thus, in the case of the individuals watched 

 by me, the males died sooner from hunger and thirst than did the 

 females, and each act of copulation appeared to diminish their vitahty. 

 When one collects in the early part of the mating season the males 

 are generally found fully as abundant as the females, while later in the 

 year they may become, in some species, very rare. 



Parthenogenesis. — Two cases of apparent true parthenogenesis, with 

 the production of fertile eggs, have been described by Campbell (1883) 

 and Damin (1893). A number of females observed by Blackwall 

 (1845), where he excluded males and kept the females through a num- 

 ber of moults, made cocoons and laid eggs, but the latter proved infer- 

 tile. Eggs frequently prove infertile even after copulation, according 

 to my own observations. Parthenogenesis, with the production of 

 fertile eggs, is then very rare among spiders, and it is probable that 

 most species do not show it at all. Blackwall's observations (1845a) 

 are quite decisive upon this point. 



A very curious case is that described by Doumerc (1840) of a The- 

 ridium triangulifer which made successive cocoons, out of some of 

 which only male spiderlings developed, out of others only females. 

 This is a phenomenon well worth critical study. 



Cocooning, Oviposition. — I shall not attempt to give here a com- 

 parative study of cocoon-architecture; that subject has been well 

 treated by Wagner, and much less accurately by McCook; but shall 

 simply call attention to the similarity that exists among all observed 

 species in the general modes of cocoon-making and oviposition. The 

 first stages of this process have not been frequently described, and the 

 following list comprises all the observations on the subject : Leeuwen- 

 hoek, Menge {Lycosa, Tegenaria, Gnaphosa, Micaria, Philodromus) , 

 Emerton (Epeira), McCook (Lycosa), Henking (Lycosa), Pokrowsky 

 (Pholcus), Warburton (.4 gra/ena), Wagner's excellent studies on a num- 

 ber of species, and my own (Lxjcosa stonei, L. lepida, L. punctulata, L. 

 ocreata pvlchra, Pardosa nigripalpis, Pirata liber, Tegenaria derhami, 

 Theridium tepidariorum, Teutana.). In all of these the spider spins 

 first a base, oviposits upon it, then spins a cover over it; all ara- 

 neid cocoons are made in this way. McCook (1890) distinguishes 

 three kinds of cocoons, and states of the third kind (supposed to be 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



characteristic of the Lycosidd) : the spider spins "a single sheet, within 

 which the eggs are deposited, which is subsequent!}' pulled over the 

 egg mass, and pinched by the jaws into a globular covering, the selvage 

 of which is united with sufficient fu'nmess to adhere until the spiders are 

 ready to leave the cocoon." As a matter of fact, such a type is not 

 known among spiders. McCook had based it upon an imperfect 

 observation of his own (in 1884) ; Menge had described the process 

 in Lycosa correctly as long ago as 1843, and Henking. Wagner and I 

 corroborate Menge, that the cocoon is made in the Lycosidoe of two 

 separate portions, a base and a cover. No matter what the final 

 shape of the cocoon may be, nor how the mother places or carries her 

 cocoon, it is always made of two separate portions. These may each 

 be a disk (Lycosidoe, Drassidce, TJiomisidce, DictynidcB, Agalenidce), or 

 the base may be a spherical ball of silk (some Theridiidce). The mode 

 of oviposition also appears to be uniform in araneids ; the eggs are 

 discharged upon the base of the cocoon included in a large drop of 

 fluid of very viscid consistency; this drop serves to retain the ova in 

 a compact mass, and to protect them from the air before the cover of 

 the cocoon is made. This drop of fluid is of such bulk that only a 

 small portion, if any, of it can consist of semen, and it is probably a 

 secretion of glands connected with the female generative apparatus. 

 Bertkau was unable to find spermatozoa within this fluid. 



The act of oviposition does not weaken the spider, and in some 

 species one individual produces a number of cocoons in succession. 

 Females have been kno^^^l to live for several years. 



Care of the Cocoons and Young. — ^The Lycosidce, as is well known, 

 carry the cocoon attached to the spinnerets, and carry the j'oung 

 upon their bodies for some time after hatching; but the mother does 

 not feed the j'oung, as Kirby supposed. The Lycosid genera Dolo- 

 medes and Ocyale, however, carry their cocoons in a different manner 

 and build a nest for the young. I have seen also that the mother 

 bites open the cocoon to allow the escape of the young. Many of the 

 Thomisidce also guard their cocoon, embracing it for long periods at 

 a time, as has been observed in Thomisiis, Olios and Xysticus. Some 

 Theridiids also guard their cocoons and carry them about; there is a 

 very remarkable case of maternal solicitude described by Kathariner 

 for Stegodyphus Uneatus; and Seidel states that all the Theridiids which 

 carry their cocoons about bite them open to allow the escape of the 

 young. The Attid Salticus has also been described as a cocoon- 

 guarder. One Drassid I have found to hold her cocoon and carry it 

 about. Pholcus is also a well-known example, holding her cocoon in 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



her jaws, but she does not remain holding it continuously until it 

 hatches, but I have found will hang the cocoon upon the web in order 

 to feed and to clean herself. McCook has given a broad general account 

 of the degrees of maternity among spiders, and I will go into the sub- 

 ject here no further than to state that in most families and species 

 there is no marked maternal solicitude for the cocoons and young. 

 The case of the Drassidce, when the female is generally found near her 

 cocoon, is not a case of maternal solicitude, but the mother remains 

 near the cocoon because she chanced to place it in her narrow domi- 

 cile; an exception is found in Drassus neglectus, described in the pre- 

 ceding pages. 



Courtship.— It is difficult to define what has been called "courtship" 

 in animals ; a general definition would be : the performance, immediately 

 preceding the copulation, of peculiar motions by the male. But this 

 is hardly an adequate definition, for an eager male always acts differ- 

 ently in the presence of a mature female than he does at other times. 

 We should then have to say "a rhythmically repeated set of motions 

 on the part of the male, continued for some time before copulation." 



Using the idea of courtship in this sense, we find a courtship in two 

 families of araneids, each of whom construct no webs, namely, the 

 Attidce and the Lycosidce. The courtship of the Attidcc has been de- 

 scribed for a considerable number of species by the Peckhams, and 

 these authors have studied it particularly with regard to the relative 

 value of the theories of Sexual Selection expressed by Darwin and 

 Wallace. They find the courtship of the Attids to consist sometimes 

 in dances, sometimes in remarkable posturings, sometimes in a waving 

 of the legs or palpi by the male; and they interpret these motions 

 as in each case an exhibition before the female of bright colors and 

 peculiar structures by the male. The Attidce are the most brilliantly 

 colored of all the spiders, and some of them evince courtship motions 

 to a degree not shown by any others. Menge and Treat have briefly 

 noted courtship motions among Lycosidce, and I have described them 

 in the earlier part of this paper for Pardosa nigropalpis, Lycosa stonei, 

 L. lepida and L. scutulata. Without repeating the details of the ob- 

 servations, it may be stated that the actions of the male consist 

 in a rhythmical motion of the first pair of legs (waving in the air or 

 tapping upon the ground), sometimes accompanied by waving of the 

 palpi. 



I have not found in my own studies, nor do I find in the observations 

 of others, indications of true courtship in any other araneid families. 

 To be sure, in web-makers like the Pholcidce, Theridiidce and Epeiridce, 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the males communicate signals to females, and are answered by them, 

 by pulls upon the web-lines connecting the two individuals. And 

 in some Agalenidce, as Tegenaria derhami, the males approach the 

 females very slowly at first, tapping upon the horizontal sheet of the 

 web with their palpi and first pair of legs. But such motions on the 

 part of the male should be interpreted rather as signals of the male 

 to determine the sex and the degree of eagerness in his partner, than 

 as a courtship proper. Similar are the approaches of the Dictynids. 

 The male in the Thomisidce. (Xysticus stomachosus) makes no prelimi- 

 nary motions whatsoever, but as soon as he touches the female seeks 

 to immediately mount upon her back. 



The question of the psychology of courtship among animals is a 

 very great one. How% in the first place, does one sex recognize the 

 other as such? One of the greatest wonders in the study of animal 

 habits, though it is so general that its strangeness is overlooked, is 

 that one individual, before it has once experienced anact of union with 

 an individual of the other sex, has the sense that that other individual 

 can gratify its desire, and can unerringly perform that act. In the 

 spider it is still more remarkable, for the male has first to perform the 

 act of charging the palpi with sperm. This is no act of mere automa- 

 tism ; here the animal shows most truly that it cannot be compared with 

 a machine. "Gonotropism" is a mere name and does not explain nor 

 classify the process. Broad questions like this one must be elucidated 

 before we can hope for any adequate explanation of courtship, a per- 

 formance of secondary importance, and consequently I would call 

 attention here merely to certain peculiarities in the courtship of spiders. 



In the first place, courtship is primarily an expression of eagerness 

 upon the part of the male. The male is mature, and the recognition of 

 the opposite sex in a state of maturity also stimulates him to the 

 excess of desire. It may be at first a mental state, which then reflects 

 upon the organization and perturbs the latter. Great excitement finds 

 expression in muscular activity, and hence the peculiar, exaggerated 

 movements corresponding to an abnormal state of stimulation. In 

 some animals the male, once so excited, rushes at the female ; in other 

 he does not do so immediately, but goes through a preliminary set of 

 motions, which may be termed courtship when they are regular and 

 more or less rhythmical. Now in the case of the araneids, why does 

 not the male immediately hasten to the female, since by so doing he 

 would most quickly gratify his desire? Several answers might be 

 suggested: (1) that the male seeks to reach the highest pitch of ex- 

 citement, or waits until that state is reached, before approaching the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



female — having, as it were, a pleasure in the state of excitement itself; 

 or that (2) he strives first to assure himself of the eagerness of the 

 female; or that (3) he strives first to stimulate the female to eqvial 

 eagerness. The first of these answers probably accounts for a certain 

 part of the delay before the act of coition, but not for all of it. The 

 second answer, I think, accounts for the remaining part of the delay, 

 while the third answer is hardly admissible, and for the following 

 reason : Deep-rooted in every spider is caution in approaching another 

 individual, particularly upon a foreign web (and in web-making 

 species the male always approaches the female upon her own web). 

 This is well marked in Epeirids; the male approaches and retreats 

 many times tentatively until he assures himself, by the female remain- 

 ing quiet, that she is not hostile to him. A decided attack by the 

 female, and I have found the male to generally cease his approaches. 

 His peculiar motions during his approach, be they courtship or not, 

 are referable to his excitement. The approach is then marked by a 

 combination of fear and of intense excitement, more or less restrained 

 by this habit of fear. Certain attitudes of the male, in the Attidoe 

 particularly, as the Peckhams have demonstrated, are such as to 

 exhibit most clearly before the female sexual beauties or eccentrici- 

 ties of form or color. But the point which I wish to emphasize is, 

 that there is no evidence that the male is conscious of exciting the 

 female thereby; by such motions and attitudes she certainly recognizes 

 him as a male, and perhaps is herself stimulated to a state of sexual 

 desire, but the male does not carry out these performances in order to 

 stimulate her. 



In the Lycosids wdth a decided courtship, a part of the courtship 

 is a straightening out before him of his first pair of legs by the male, 

 and then a withdrawal of them. I^ut this is only an exaggerated 

 performance of motions that he exhibits in other mental states ; these 

 legs are his main organs of touch as he walks, and also his main organs 

 of guard; they are used similarly by the female. Each sex, in answer 

 to an act of hostility, elevates these legs and directs them forward. 

 Here is an act of caution, and the male in courtship simply exaggerates 

 the expression of this act. Now^ in two of our American species, 

 Lycosa ocreata and Lycosa stonei, the tibia^ of this pair of legs are 

 thickly furred with black hairs, making them very conspicuous. 

 In Lycosa stonei the male in his courtship waves these legs so as to 

 show their furring to the female, but waves them in approximately 

 the same manner as do Lycosids which possess no such secondary 

 sexual ornaments. But the male of L. ocreata docs not wave these 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



legs. Certain Attids, according to the account of the Peckhams, 

 exhibit courtship motions of such a very bizarre nature that they 

 would seem at first sight as not referable to movements shown when 

 the male is not sexually excited ; yet some of them may be found to 

 be excessive expressions of some of the latter group of movements. 



Thus the motions of the male in courtship are to be directly ex- 

 plained as a muscular expression of his intense eagerness, of vitality 

 in its highest state; though some, at least, of these motions are merely 

 exaggerated repetitions of movements which he performs under other 

 conditions. Such performances probably do stimulate sexual eager- 

 ness in the female, by advertising the performer as a male; but there 

 is no evidence that the male consciously performs for that end. It is 

 as a man under the influence of strong drink : smiles are produced by 

 his antics, but he does not consciously occasion the smiles. 



The male alone does not make all the approaches, but sometimes 

 the female likewise. Thus in Lycosa scutulata the female taps the 

 male with her legs when she is willing for copulation, and the females 

 of the other Lycosids studied by me bend their heads down to the 

 ground as a similar indication. The female of Theridium tepidariorum 

 signals very energetically to the male, by repeated pulls upon the web- 

 lines, and appears to be first in the courtship. Other females, as of 

 the Pholcidce and some Epeiridce, give no active expression of readi- 

 ness, but by remaining perfectly quiet, thereby not showing hostility, 

 assure the males of their willingness. The only case I know of when 

 the male seizes the female by storm is Tegenaria derhami. Since the 

 male ceases his courtship as soon as the female gives the signal of desire 

 on her part, very plainly a portion of the delay before the copulation 

 is due to the male testing the eagerness of the female. 



Sexual selection may well be, in some cases, the process which has 

 occasioned secondary sexual differences, and in the case of the spiders 

 the view of the Peckhams in this matter is probably correct. That is 

 to say, the differences in the males are due, not to "greater vitality" 

 of the male sex, but to selection by the females. Yet I would make 

 the point that there is no evidence that the females are influenced by 

 any aesthetic sense of the beautiful in males — that the females do not 

 select males that seem most beautiful to them; but that they select 

 those males which, by peculiarities in movements, color or form, 

 most c^uickly and certainly announce their sex. Other things being 

 equal, the male that is most eager would be most active in his court- 

 ship motions, and would stand the chance of being selected b}' the ex- 

 pectant female, since he would be advertising his sex most prominently ; 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



and not because he would appeal to her as more beautiful or graceful 

 than other males. 



These views as to the origin and meaning of courtship in spiders 

 may be briefly summarized as follows : The mature male is stimulated 

 to great excitement by a perception, visual and tactual, of a mature 

 virgin female, and this excitement finds its expression in mviscular 

 movements. The male does not immediately embrace the female, 

 for in most spiders he is the weaker individual, but delays in order to 

 first determine whether the female is eager or hostile. Rhythmically 

 repeated motions of the male during this period of delay constitute 

 courtship, and these motions are for the most part exaggerations of 

 ordinary motions of fear and timidity. By such motions he adver- 

 tises himself to the female as a male, but there is no proof that he 

 consciously seeks to arouse her eagerness by aesthetic display. That 

 male is accepted by the female who most quickly and surely announces 

 himself, by his rhythmic movements, to be a male; and there seems 

 to be no good reason to hold that the female is actuated in her choice 

 by sensations of beauty. If such a process be interpreted as sexual 

 selection, it would be a selection of the male who most determinedly 

 announces himself to be a male, and not as the male who appeals to 

 the female as the most beautiful. 



Post-nuptial moult. — It is generally beheved that in araneids the 

 final moult precedes the mating. But Bertkau (1885) has shown that 

 in Atypus piceus a moult, with change of the seminal receptacles, 

 occurs after the first year of oviposition; and I have described here 

 for Lycosa ocreata pulchra a moult following a successful copulation. 

 Accordingly, in some cases a moult may follow the mating; and prob- 

 ably this will be found to be general in species that Hve several years, 

 since increase in body size occasioned by rich feeding would appear 

 to necessarily induce further moults. 



Wagner (1888) has described the histological changes of moult. 

 I would simply add here that the moult in all the spiders observed by 

 me follows the same plan : a horizontal split of the old skin along the 

 sides of the abdomen and of the cephalothorax (here just above the 

 legs and the jaws), so that the skin breaks into a dorsal and ventral 

 piece. This is quite different from the process of moult in insects and 

 crustaceans. 



10 




146 proceedings of the academy of [jan., 



Literature ox Parthenogenesis, Sperm-induction, Mating, 



OVIPOSITION, COCOONING AND CaRE OF EgGS AND 



Young in Spiders. 



(An asterisk denotes that the paper was not accessible.) 



1847. Adams, A. Notes on the Habits of Certain Exotic Spiders. Ann. Mag. 



Nat. Hist., 20. 

 1867. AussERER, A. Beobaclitungen iiber Lebensweise, Fortpflanzung und 



Entwicklung der Spinnen. Zeit. d. Ferdinandeums f. Tirol. 

 *1878a. Becker, L. Quelques mots sur les travaux des Araignees. 

 18786. Becker. De I'amour maternel chez I'Araignee. Ann. Soc. Ent. 



Belg., 21. 

 1880. Becker. Sur les mceurs de deux especes de Lycoses. Com.pt. Rend. 



Soc. Ent. Belg., 23. 

 ♦1869. Beling. Beobachtungen der Spinnen. Aus. der Natur., 49. 

 1875a. Bertkau, P. Ueber den Generationsapparat der Araneiden. Ein 



Beitrag zur Anatomie und Biologie derselben. Arch. f. Naturgesch., 41. 

 18756. Bertkau. Wann und wo bei den Araneiden die Vereinigung der 

 beiderseitigen Geschlechtsprodukte, also die Befruchtung der Eier Statt 

 finde. Sitzb. Naturh. Ver. preuss. Rheinl. u. Westf., 32. 

 1876. Bertkau. Erneute Beobachtung iiber das Einbringen des Samens in 



den mannlichen Palpus der Spinnen. Ihid., 33. 

 1885. Bertkau. Ueber den Saisondimorphismus und einige andere Lebens- 



erscheinungen bei Spinnen. Zool. Anz., 8. 

 1889. Bertkau. Ueber ein " Begattungszeiclien " bei Spinnen. Ibid., 12. 

 1894. Bertkau. Beitrag zur Kenntnis des Begattungsvorgangs bei den 



Spinnen. Sitzb. Naturh. Ver. preuss. Rheinl. u. Westf., 51. 

 *1834a. Blackwall, J. Ueber die Begattungsart der Clubiona par\nila. 



Froriep's Notizen. 

 1834&. Blackwall. Observations Relative to the Structure and Functions 



of Spiders. Third Report Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci. Trans. 

 1843. Blackwall. On the Palpi of Spiders. Ibid., Twelfth Report. 

 1845a. Blackwall. Report on Some Recent Researches into the Structure, 

 Functions and Economy of the Araneida made in Great Britain. Ibid., 

 Fourteenth Report. 

 18456. Blackwall. Researches into the Structure, Functions and Economy 



of the Araneida. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 15. 

 1861. Blackwall. A History of the Spiders of Great Britain and Ireland. 



Ray Society, London. 

 1863. Blackwall. A Succinct Review of Recent Attempts to Explain Several 

 Remarkable Facts in the Physiology of Spiders and Insects. Journ. Linn. 

 Soc. London, 6. 

 1857. Blanchard. E. Observations relatives a la generation des Araclinides. 



Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci. Paris, 44. 

 1860. Blaxchard. De la fecondation et du liquide seminal chez les Araclinides. 



Ibid., 50. 

 *1868. BoNizzi, P. Sulla generazione del Pholcus phalangoides 'V^ alck. An- 



nuar. Soc. Nat. Modena, 3. 

 *1772. BuscHiNG, A. F. Eigene Gedanken und gesammelte Xachrichten von 



der Tarantel, etc. Berhn. 

 *1895. Camboue, p. Psychique de la Bete. L'Araignee. Rev. Sci. Nat. (2), 6. 

 1868. Cambridge, O. P. Numerical Proportion of Sexes among Spiders. 



Zoologist (2), 3. 

 1873. Cambridge. An Introduction to the Study and Collection of the Arane- 

 ida in New Zealand. Trans. Proc. New Zeal. Inst., 6. 



1883. Campbell, F. M. On a Probable Case of Parthenogenesis in the House- 

 Spider (Tegenaria Guyonii). Journ. Linn. Soc. London, 16. 



1884. Campbell. On the Pairing of Tegenaria Guyonii. Ibid., 17. 



*1876. Cavanna, G. Studi e ricerche d'aracnologia. 5. Sulla nidificazione 

 degli Araneidi d'Europa. Bull. Soc. Ent. Ital., 8. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



1757. Clerck, C. Aranei suecici. Stockholm. 



1893. Damin, N. Ueber Parthenogenesis bei Spinnen. Verh. zool -bot Ges 



Wien, 43. 

 1778. De Geer, C. Mcmoires pour seri'ir a I'Histoire des Insedes. T. 7. 



Stockhohn. 

 *1887. DoNiTz. Ueber die Lebensweisc zweier A'ogelspinnen aus Japan. 



Sifzb. nat. Ges. Freiburg. 

 1840. DouMERC. Notice sur les cocons a pontes unisexuellipares de I'araneide 



Theridiou triaugulifer Walck. Ann. Soc. Entom. France, 9. 

 1836. DuGES, A. Observations sur les Araneides. Ajin. Sci. Nat. (2), 6. 



1877. Emerton, J. H. Cocoon-making and Egg-laying of Spiders. Psyche, 2. 



1878. Emerton. The Structure and Habits of Spiders. Salem. 

 1880. Emerton. Breeding Habits of Spiders. Amer. Nat., 14. 



1882. Emerton. New England Spiders of the Family Therididaj. Tram. 

 Connecticut Acad., 6. 



1884. Emerton. New England Spiders of the Family Epeirida?. Ibid. 



1888. Emerton. New England Spiders of the Family Cinifionidse. Ibid. 



1889. Emerton. Pairing of Xysticus triguttatus. Psyche, 5 



1890. Emerton. New England Spiders of the Families Drassidse, Agalenidse 

 and Dysderidse. Trans. Connecticut Acad., 8. 



1885. Enock, F. The Life-history of Atypus piceus. Sulz. Trans. Entom. 

 Soc. London. 



*1875. FiCKERT, C. Myriapoden und Araneiden vom Kamme des Riesen- 



gebirges. 

 *1858. Hasselt, a. W. M. v.\x. Over de levenswijze van Argyroneta aquatica. 



Tijdschr. v. Entom., 2. 

 * 1870a. Hasselt. Over de betteekenis van der mannelijke spinnen bij de 



paring. Ibid., 13. 

 *18706. Hasselt. ,Studien over Pholcus opihonoides Schr. Ibid., 13. 

 1870c. Hasselt. Etudes sur le Pholcus opilionoides Schrank. Arch, neerl. 



sci. exact et nat. La Haye, 5. 

 *1871. Hasselt. Over Spinnen-cocons. Verh. Akad. Wetensch. Amsterdam, 



14. 

 1872. Hasselt. Observation de la copulation chez Tune des plus petites 



especes d'araignees (Micryphantes s. Erigone rurestris C. Koch). Arch. 



neerl. sci. exact et nat., 7. 

 *1873. Hasselt. Waarneming de copulatie bij eene der kleinste spinsorten 



(Micrj'phantes rurestris C. Koch). Tijdschr. r. Entom., 16. 

 *1875. Hasselt. Geschiedenis van een spimien-cocon (Agelena s. Agroeca 



brunnea Blackw.). Ibid., 19. 

 1876a. Hasselt. Histoire d'un cocon d'araignee (Agalena s. Agroeca brunnea 



Blackw.). Arch, neerl. sci. nat., 11. 

 *18766. Hasselt. Fleschvormige cocon van Agelena brunnea BlackAv. Tijd- 

 schr. V. Entom., 23. 

 1835. Heinecken, C. Entomological Notices. Zool. Journ. London, o. 



1891. Henking, H. Die Wolfspinne und ihr Eicocon. Spengel's Zool. Jahrb., 

 System. Abth. 5. 



1875. Hentz, M. The Spiders of the United States. Edited by Burgess. 



Boston. 

 *1867. Herman, O. Jahrb. siebenbiirg. Museumsverein Klausenburg, 4. 

 1868. Herman. Ueber das Sexualorgan der Epeira quadrata Walck. Verh. 



zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 18. 

 *1878. Holmgren, E. L. Caso de partenogenesis en una Arana. Periodica 



zoologico, 2. 

 1901. Kathariner, L. Beobachtungen iiber die Brutpflege einer Spinne 



(Stegodyphus lineatus Latr.). Biol. Centralbl., 2\. 

 1849. Kessler. Beitrag zur Naturgeschichte und Anatomic der Gattung 



Lycosa. Bull. Soc. Imper. Nat. Moscow, 22. 

 1846. KiRBY, W., and Spence, W. An Introduction to Entomology. Froii> 



Sixth English Edition. Philadelphia.. 

 *1878. Lerert, H. Bau und Leben der Spinnen, ]^i•rV\u. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



1701. Leeuwenhoek. A Letter from Mr. Anthony van Leeuwenhoek, F.R.S. 

 concerning Spiders, tlieir Way of Killing their Prey, Spinning their Webs, 

 Generation, etc. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, 22. 



1886. Lendl, a. Ueber die Begattung der gekronten Ivreuzspinne (Epeira 

 diademata CL). Term. Fuzetek, Budapest, 10. 



1887. Lexdl. Ueber die Begattung und die Copulationsorgane von Trochosa 

 infernalis Motsch. Ihid., 11. 



1742. Lesser. Theologie des Insedes. Traduit .... par Mr. P. Lyonnet. 



T. 1. La Haye. 

 1748. LiGNAC, J. A. L. de. Mimoire pour servir a commencer Vhistoire des 



Araignees aquatiques. Paris. 

 1678. Lister, M. Historice Animalium Angliae . . . . De araneis. London. 

 *1778. Lister. Naturgeschichte der Spinnen iiberhaupi, etc. Quedlinburg and 



Blankenburg. 

 1871. Lucas, H. (De I'Olios venatorius.) Ann. Soc. Entom. France Bull. 



de Seances. 

 1829. Lyoxxet. Anatomic de differentes Especes d'Insectes. Araignees. 



Mem. Mus. Hist. Nat. Paris, IS. 

 1879. McCook, H. C. Pairing of Spiders, Linyphia marginata. Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 

 1884. McCooK. How Lycosa Fabricates Her Round Cocoon. Ibid. 

 1890. McCooK. American Spiders and Their Spinning Work. "\''ol. 2. Phila- 

 delphia. 

 *1793. Martyx, T. Aranei: or the Natural History of Spiders, etc. London. 

 1843. Mexge, a. Ueber die Lebensweise der Arachniden. Neueste Schr. 



naturf. Ges. Danzig, 4 

 1866. Menge. Preussische Spinnen. 1. Schr. naturf. Ges. Danzig (N.F.), 1. 

 1868. Mexge. Idem, 3. Ibid., 2. 



1871. Mexge. Idem, 4. Ibid. 



1872. Mexge. Idem, 5. Ibid, 3. 



1873. Mexge. Idem, 6. Ibid. 



1874. Mexge. Idem, 7. Ibid. 



1876. Mexge. Idem, 9. Ibid., 4. 



1877. Menge. Idem, 10. Ibid. 



1878. Mexge. Idem, 11. Ibid. 



*1790. Meyer, F. A. A. Ueber einige Spinnen der Gottinger Gegend. Gottingen. 

 *1866. Ohlert, E. Ueber das Leben der Spinnen. Altpreuss. Monatschr., 3. 

 1887. Peckham, G. W. and E. G. Some observations on the Mental Powers 



of Spiders. Journ. Morph., 1. 

 1889a. Peckham. Observations on Sexual Selection in Spiders of the Family 



Attidse. Occas. Papers. Nat. Hist. Soc. Wiscojisin, 1. 

 18895. Peckham. Protective Resemblances in Spiders. Ibid. 

 1890. Peckham. Additional Observations on Sexual Selection in Spiders of 



the Family Attida;. Ibid., 2 

 1899. Pokrowsky, S. Beobachtungen iiber das Eierablegen bei Pholcus. 



Zool. Anz., 22. 

 1866. Prach. Monographic der Thomisiden (Ivrabbenspinnen) der Gegend 



von Prag, etc. Verh. zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 16. 

 1798. Quatremere-Disjonval. Araneologie oder Natin-geschichfe der Spinnen, 



etc. Aus. d. Franzosischen d. 2ten Ausgabe libersetzt. Frankfurt a. M. 

 *1872. Ritsema. C. C. Waarneming omtrent de copulatie der Spinnen. 



Tijdschr. v. Entom., 15. 

 1847. Seidel. Einige Beobachtungen an Spinnen. Uebersicht d. Arbeit, u. 



Verdnd. d. Schles. Ges. vaterland. Kultur, Breslau. 

 1864. Simon, E. Histoire naturelle des Araignees. Paris. 

 1874. Simon. Les Arachnides de France. Paris. 

 *1882. SoREXSEN, W. Sur le rapprochement des sexes chez quelques Araignees. 



Tidjschr. v. Entom., 1. 

 1866. Termeyer, R. M. de. Researches and Experiments upon Silk from 



Spiders, and upon their Reproduction. Transl. from the Italian by B. G. 



Wilder. Proc. Essex In.^t., 5. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



1870-1873. Thorell, T. Remarks on Sijnonyms of European Spiders. Upsala. 

 *1849. ToTi, L. Ueber die Lebensweise der Spinnen. Neujahrsstiicke Ziirch. 



naturf. Ges. 

 1879. Treat, M. The Habits of a Tarantula. Arner. Nat., 13. 

 1812. Treviranus, G. R. Ueber den inneren Ban der Arachniden. Niirnberg. 

 1888. Wagner, W. La Mue des Araign^es. Ann. Sci. Nat. (7) Zool., 6. 

 1894. Wagner. L' Industrie des Araneina. Mem. Imper. Acad. Sci. St. Peters- 



bourq (8), 42. „ • ■ 



1837. Walckenaer. Histoire naturelle des Insectes, Apteres. Suites a 



Buffon, 2. Paris. 

 1891. Warburton, C. The Oviposition and Cocoon-weaving of Agelena 



labyrinthica. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), 8. 

 *1893. Warburton. On the Oviposition of Agelena labyrinthica. Proc. 



Cambridge Soc, 7. 

 1900. Westberg, p. Aus dem Leben der Spinnen, 5. Zur Begattung von 



Linyphia triangularis (var. macrognatha und micrognatha Menge). Kor- 



respendenzbl. naturf .-Ver. Riga, 43. 

 *1828. Westwood, J. O. A Note upon the Impregnation of the Arachnida. 



Zool. Journ. London, 4. 



Explanation of Plates IV and V. 



All the drawings are freehand outline sketches, and as such do not claim to bf 



accurate in all dimensional proportions, though the attitudes are true to 



nature and all are studies from life. The degree of inagnifi- 



cation varies in the different figures. 



Plate IV, Fig. 1. — Lateral view of a female Ocyale undata, hanging in her web 

 and holding her cocoon. 



Fig. 2. — Copulation of Theridium tepidariorum, lateral view at the instant 

 when the male seizes the female. 



Fig. 3. — Copulation of Pholcus phalangioides, only the proximal portions of 

 the legs shown. 



Fig. 4. — Copulation of Agalena ncevia, the female below and partially upon 

 her side, the male's left palpus applied to the epigynum. 



Fig. 5. — Copulation of Acrosoma gracile, the male with his left palpus ap- 

 plied to the epigynum ; the male is drawn proportionately some- 

 what too large. 



Plate V, Fig. 6. — Copulation of Dictyna volupis, the left palpus of the male 

 inserted; the third leg of the male and the posterior end of the 

 abdomen of the female are supported by the web. 



Fig. 7. — Copulation of Xysticus stomachosus. 



Fig. 8. — Copulation of Pardosa nigropalpis, lateral view, the male with his 

 left palpus inserted. 



Fig. 9. — A female Pardosa nigropalpis holding her cocoon beneath her 

 cephalothorax ; this is the attitude when she finishes spinning the 

 cover of the cocoon, and when she bites it open to free the young. 



Fig. 10. — Copulation of Lycosa stonei, dorsal view, the male inserting his 

 right palpus, the cephalothorax of the female hidden by the male. 




150 proceedings of the academy of [feb., 



February 3. 

 The President, SaMuel G. Dixox. M.D.. in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 "New Lithobii from CaUfornia and Oregon." by Ralph V. Chani- 



berlin. 



"Descriptions of Several Fishes from Zanzibar Island. Two of 



which are New" by Henry W. Fowler. 



The death of Anthonv J. Antelo. a member, was announced. 



February 10. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixox, ]\1.D.. in the Chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for pubhcation : 



"A Revision of the Orthopterous Genus Homoeogamia," by James 

 A. G. Rehn. 



"Mollusca of Western Kansas and Adjacent States, with a Revision 

 of Paravitrea," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



"A Revision of the North American Ants of the Genus Leptothorax 

 Mayr," by William ]\Iorton Wheeler. 



February 17. 



Mr. Arthur Erwix Browx, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notes on the Conrad Collection of Vicksburg 

 Fossils, with Descriptions of New Species." Ijv Thomas L. Casey, was 

 presented for publication. 




1903.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 151 



February 24. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for pubHcation: 

 "The Variations of Eutsenia in the Pacific Sub-region," by Arthur 

 Erwin Brown. 

 "A New Species of Nyctalemon/' by Henry Skinner, M.D, 

 Miss Lucy W. Baird was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




P'^ ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



NEW LITHOBII FEOM CALIFORNIA AND OREGON. 



BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN. 



Since Dr. Anton Stuxberg published his Lithohioidce AmericcB 

 Borealis in 1875, very little has been added to our knowledge of the 

 Lithobii of the Pacific coast region. A study of somewhat extensive 

 collections made at various points in California and Oregon during 

 1902 enables me now to present descriptions of ten species not previ- 

 ously recorded , as well as to identify with certainty various species 

 described by earlier writers. In the key which follows I have included, 

 in addition to the new fonns, also such other related species as seemed 

 proper for purposes of comparison: 



Ayialytical Key to Species Considered. 



A. — Coxal pores in several series (Bothropolys). 



Oi. — ^Angles of the 9th, 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced, 

 fej. — ^Articles of antennae 28-31 ; pairs of ocelU 30; coxal pores 

 round or oval; length 1.5-18 mm., -^ddth 2.2 mm,; 

 length of anal legs 6 mm., . aztecus Hmnb. et Sauss. 

 bj- — Articles of antennae 42-46; pairs of oceUi 16-21; coxal 

 pores strongly transverse (adults); length 22-23 mm., 

 Andth 3.3-3.4 mm.; length of anal legs 10.5 mm., 



chumasanus sp. nov. 

 a^. — Angles of none of the dorsal plates produced. 



bi. — Articles of antennae 20; pairs of ocelli 7-9 in 2 series; 

 prosternal teeth 6-6; spines of anal legs 1, 4, 3, 1- 

 1, 4, 3, 2; length 18 mm., . . . monticola Stux. 

 &2- — Articles of antennae 23-27 (normally); pairs of oceUi 

 17-21 in 4 or 5 series; prosternal teeth 8-8 to 13-13; 

 spines of anal legs 1, 3, 2, 1; length 20-24 mm., 



sierravagus sp. nov. 

 B. — Coxal pores in a single series (Lithobius). 



Oj. — ^Angles of the 9th, 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced. 

 h.i — Articles of antennae 26-28; prosternal teeth 2-2; pos- 

 terior coxae unarmed laterally ; spines of penult legs 

 1, 3, 3, 1, of anal 1 3, 2, 1 . . . . angelus sp. nov. 

 b^. — Articles of antennae 39-44; prosternal teeth 4lr-4; pos- 

 terior coxae armed laterally; spines of penult legs 

 1, 3, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 3, 1, . . , bellulus sp. nov. 

 Oj. — Angles of none of the dorsal plates produced. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



h,.- — Posterior coxse unarmed with spines; ocelli 6 in 2 series; 

 porigerous area of coxse deeply depressed, pores 

 3, 4, 4, 3; anal legs of d^ conspicuously compressed 

 sublaterally, without produced lobes; length 8 mm., 



remex sp. no v. 

 ^2. — Posterior coxse armed laterally (porigerous area of last 

 coxse not deeply depressed). 

 Cj. — Last 3 pairs of coxse laterally armed. 



rfj. — Ocelli 8-12; spines of first legs 1, 2, 1, of penult 

 1, 3, 3, 0-1, 3, 3, 1, of anal 1, 3, 3, 0; length 



7.5-9 mm., eigenmanni Boll. 



f/j. — Ocelli 12-15; spines of first legs 2, 3, 2, of 

 penult 1, 3, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 2, 0; length 

 11.5-13 mm., . . . pitophilus sp. nov. 

 f,.— Last two pairs of coxae laterally armed. 



rfi. — Anal legs in d^ not specially modified; claw of 

 ? gonopods tripartite; coxal pores 2, 2, 3, 3- 



3, 3, 4, 3, very small; spines of first legs 

 1, 2, 1, of anal 1, 3, 3, 1 ; length 8-8.5 mm., 



sastianus sp. nov. 



rfj- — Anal legs in c? not specially modified; claw of 



? gonopods tripartite ; coxal pores 3, 4, 4, 3- 



4, 5, 4, 4, large; spines of first legs 1, 3, 1, 

 of anal 1, 3, 2, 0; length 9-10 mm., 



mesechinus sp. nov. 



f/3. — Tibia of anal legs in d produced above into a 

 large pecuhar lobe at distal end ; ( 9 unknown) ; 

 coxal pores 2, 3, 3, 2, small; spines of first 

 legs 1, 3, 2-2, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 2, 0; length 

 8.8 mm., castellopes sp. nov. 



(1^. — Tibia of anal legs in d produced into a con- 

 spicuous lobe at the superior-interior angle of 

 proximal end ; claw" of 9 gonopods tripartite ; 

 coxal pores 3, 4, 4, 3, moderately large; 

 • spines of first legs 1, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 2, 0- 



1, 3, 2, 1; length 10.5-11 mm., 



clavigerens sp. nov. 



rfj. — Tibia of anal legs in d excavated ^vithin near 



proximal joint, at which it and femur are 



produced inward into a conspicuous lobe; 



claw of ? gonopods tripartite; coxal pores 



2, 2, 2, 2,-2, 3, 3, 3, small; spines of first legs 

 1, 2, 1,-2, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 2, 0; length 7.5-11 

 mm., utahensis Chaxnh. 



dg. — {& not known.) Claw of 9 gonopods entire; 

 coxal pores 2,3,3,3; spines of first legs 1, 2, 1 ; 

 of anal 1,3, 2, 1 ; length 13 mm., ohesus Stux. 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



1. Lithobius chumasanus sp. nov. 



Description. — Adults deep-browm to mahogany, legs paler distall}', 

 antennae paler distally or not; robust, head and dorsum roughened, 

 more strongly so caudaUy; entire body rather sparsely pilose with 

 very short hairs, but the last ventral plates more densely pro^aded with 

 longer hairs; antennae on basal joints very sparsely, elsewhere sub- 

 densely, clothed ^-ith straight stiff hairs ; legs sparsely hirsute, the last 

 tarsal joint of anterior legs more densely so beneath. Head rounded, 

 very nearly equal in length and width. Antennae moderate, article? 

 42-46, except the first ones short, the ultimate in length about equal 

 ing the two preceding together. Ocelli on each side 16-21, arrangec- 

 in 4 or 5 longitudinal series, large and distinct, the single ocellus verj 

 large and vertically oval. Prosternal teeth 6-6, 7-7, large and sub- 

 equal. Spines of first legs 2, 3, 3; penult legs with two claws, spines 



1, 3, 3, 1 ; anal legs mth two claws, spines 1, 3, 3, 1 ; last 3 pairs of coxae 

 armed laterally and also dorsally with a stout spine. Coxal pores 

 7, 8, 8, 6-8, 8, 8, 7, transverse, oval in immature specimens. Gonopods 

 of 9 : claw stout, bipartite, the lobes equal or nearly so, sometimes 

 with a very small third lobe on the inner side of claw; basal spines, 

 stout, pointed, flattened distally. 



Length of body 22-23 mm.; ^-idth of 8th dorsal plate 3.3-3.4 mm., 

 length of antennae 10 mm. ; length of anal legs 10.5 mm. 



Habitat. — Santa Barbara, Cal. 



Etymology. — From Chumashans, a tribe of Indians of southern Cali- 

 fornia, including those of the Santa Barbara mission. 



2. Lithobius sierravagus sp. nov. 



Description. — Chestnut, legs and antennae fighter, the latter pale 

 distally (specimens from Tiuckee, Cal.) to mahogany, with the legs 

 and antennae dark, both legs and antennae rufous distally (specimens 

 from Oregon City, Oreg.); head and dorsum much roughened, espe- 

 cially so the posterior plates; dorsum glabrous or nearly so; venter 

 very sparsely provided wdth hairs, the anal and genital segments sub- 

 densely so; legs sparsely pilose; antennae uniformly clothed with fine, 

 straight hairs. Head scarcely wider than long (14: 13.5), the portion 

 back of eyes subquadrangular. Antennae: articles 23-27, rarely 20. 

 except the first ones, short, the ultimate mostly a little shorter than 

 the two preceding together, the nmuber of articles usually in inverse 

 proportion to length of antennae. OceUi on each side : 16-21, in 4 curv- 

 ing series, mostly 14-6, 5, 4, 3 or H-5, 6, 3, 2. Prosternal teeth: 

 8-8 to 13-13, black and conical. Spines of the first legs 2, 3, 2; penult 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



legs with 3 claws, spines 1. 3, 3, 2; anal legs with the claw single, some- 

 times with a short spine on the outer ventral surface of base of claw, 

 spines 1, 3, 2, 1; last 2 pairs of coxae armed l)eneath and laterally. 

 Coxal pores numerous, in 3-4 series, of varying sizes. Gonopods of 

 9 : claws short and stout, tripartite, the lobes short and blunt or 

 rounded, the lateral ones sometimes scarcely indicated; basal spines 

 3-3, moderate, conical. 



Length of body 20-24 mm. : width of Sth dorsal plate 2.4( ? )-3.9 

 mm. (d^); length of antennie 10-12 mm. ( 9 ). 11-16 mm (c^); length 

 of anal legs 10-12 mm. 



Habitat. — Truckee and Shasta Springs, Cal., and Oregon Cit}' and 

 Portland, Oreg. 



Etymology. — Sierra from Sierra Nevada jMountains, the home of the 

 species, and Latin vagus, participle of vagari. to roam or wander over. 



3. Lithobius angelus sp. no v. 



Desa-iption. — Reddish-brown, legs paler, antennae light distally; 

 dorsal plates somewhat coarsely punctate, the posterior ones more 

 strongly so; dorsum glabrous; venter mostly nearty glabrous, but the 

 posterior plates and the genital and anal segments with more numer- 

 ous hairs; legs sparsely pilose, antennae densely pilose. Head wider 

 than long (7.5 :7) (d^ ) . or subequal in length and width ( 9 ) . Antennae : 

 articles 26(cJ')-28 ( 9), articles short, the ultimate about equal in 

 length to the two preceding together. Ocelli on each side: 12 in 3 

 longitudinal series (1+3, 4, 4). Prosternal teeth 2-2, acute. Spines 

 of the first legs 1, 3, 1-1, 3, 2; penult legs with 2 claws, spines 1, 3, 3, 1 ; 

 anal legs with 2 claws, spines 1, 3, 2, 1. Posterior coxae armed neither 

 beneath nor laterally. Coxal pores 5, 5, 5 (6), 5, round or suboval. 

 Gonopods of 9 : claw tripartite; basal spines 2-2, rather stout. 



Length of body 14 mm. (d^)-15 mm. (9); width of 8th dorsal 

 plate 1.9 mm.(6')-1.7 (9) ; length of antennae 4.5 mm.( 9 )-5 

 mm. (cP). 



Habitat. — Los Angeles county, Cal. 



Etymology. — Latin angelus, an angel, the reference being to the 

 locality where found, Los Angeles, "place of angels." 



4. Lithobius bellulus sp. uov. 



Description. — Body shining testaceous-brown of a reddish tint, 

 head Avith lower portion of antennae and the posterior dorsal plates 

 darker; legs paler, with a violaceous tinge, legs and antennae lighter 

 colored distally; head and anterior dorsal plates weakly finely rough- 

 ened, the posterior dorsal plates more strongly so: head and dorsal 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^ 



plates with a few scattered hairs, more numerous on posterior plates ; 

 venter likewise nearly glabrous, except the last plates; antennae uni- 

 formly clothed with straight slender hairs of moderate length. Head 

 but little wider than long (10:9). Antennae: articles 39-44, mostly 

 very short, the ultimate about equal in length to the two preceding 

 taken together. Ocelli on each side: 11-13, arranged in 3 series 

 (1 +3, 4, 3-1 +4, 4, 4), somewhat distant from each other. Prosternal 

 teeth: 4-4, the 2 inner on each side rather closer together than others. 

 Spines of the first legs 1, 3, 1 ; penult legs with 2 claws, spines 1, 3, 3, 2 ; 

 anal legs with 2 claws, spines 1, 3, 3, 1; last 3 pairs of coxae armed 

 laterally vnth a stout spine, unarmed below or above. Coxal pores 

 round, moderately large, 5, 5, 5, 4-5, 6, 6, 4 (5). Gonopods of ? : 

 claw broad, tripartite, the middle lobe longest, slender and acute, 

 the side lobes short; basal spines 2-2, the outer stouter than the inner 

 and flattened distalh'. 



Length of body 13-16 mm. ; width of 8th plate 1.6-2 mm. ; length of 

 antennae 6.3-8 mm.; length of anal legs 5.4-7 mm. 



Habitat. — Portland., Oreg. 



Etymology. — Latin hellulus, of pleasing appearance, graceful. 

 5. Lithobius remex sp. nov. 



Description. — Body brown, legs paler; head smooth; dorsal plates 

 nearly smooth, a little roughened by weak longitudinal folds; head 

 wdth a few long hairs ; dorsum -^ith scattered short hairs ; ventral plates 

 smooth and glabrous ; legs sparsely pilose ; antennae rather sparsely 

 clothed with moderately long straight hairs ; prosternum with a few 

 hairs about margin; claws of prehensorial feet with long hairs at base. 

 Head cordate, slightly wider than long. Antennae: articles 20, be- 

 yond the second short, except the ultimate which is long, nearly equal- 

 ing in length the three preceding together. Ocelli on each side: 6, 

 arranged in 2 series (1 +2, 3), deeply pigmented. Prosternal teeth 2-2. 

 Spines of the first legs 1, 2, 1; anal legs with the claw single, spines 

 1, 3, 2, 0, in thec^ conspicuously expanded in a subvertical direction, 

 the plane of flattening more nearly horizontal distally, not produced 

 into lobes or knots; posterior pairs of coxae without trace of spines. 

 Coxal pores: pore-bearing groove deep, so that the pores are often 

 visible with difficulty from below, 3, 4, 4, 3, moderate. 



Length of body 8 mm.; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.1 mm.; length 

 of antennae 2.9 mm.; length of anal legs 2.9 mm. 



Habitat. — Shasta Springs, Cal. 



Etymology.- — Latin remex, an oarsman, the reference being to the 

 flattened anal legs of the c? . 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



6- Lithobias pitophilus sp. nov. 



Descri'ptions. — Brown or chestnut, legs and ventral surface paler, 

 antennae rufous at tips; dorsal plates smooth, with a few shallow- 

 longitudinal furrows, glabrous; legs and prehensorial jaws sparsely 

 pilose; antennae moderately densely pilt)se. Head subcordate, wider 

 than long (7.25:6.75, nearly). Antennae with 20 articles, the ulti- 

 mate mostly shorter than the two preceding together. Ocelli on each 

 side: 12-13 in 3 series (1+3, 5, 3, 4). Prosternal teeth 2-2, acute. 

 Spines of first legs 2, 3, 2; penult legs having the claw with 2 accessory 

 spines, spines 1, 3, 3, 2; anal legs with the claw unarmed, spines 

 1, 3, 2, 0, femur in c? enlarged distally and the tibial and tarsal joints 

 inflated; posterior coxae unarmed beneath, the last 3 armed dorsally 

 and laterally toward the dorsal surface. Coxal pores 4, 4, 5, 4—4, 5, 5, 5, 

 small and round. Gonopods of $ : claw weakly tripartite or sub- 

 entire; basal spines 2-2, stout. 



Length of body 11.5-13 mm. ; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.6-1.8 mm. ; 

 length of antennae 3.5 mm.; length of anal legs 4 mm. 



Habitat. — Truckee, Cal. 



Etymology. — Greek ruTu<ij pine, and <pi^o^, fond of, loving, i.e., "pine 

 loving," the specimens having been collected in the pine woods about 

 Truckee. 



7. Lithobius sastianus sp. nov. 



Description. — Testaceous-brown, posterior borders of principal dor- 

 sal plates mostly darker; legs paler; antennae brown at base, yellow 

 distally, head and dorsal plates not strongly roughened, the plates 

 with distinct longitudinal rugae; venter a little roughened; entire body 

 sparsely pilose, the legs more densely so; antennae moderately densely 

 clothed with long stiff hairs. Head a little wider than long (5.5-5 

 A'ery nearly). Antennae: articles 20, short excepting the first few. 

 the ultimate a little longer than the two preceding together. Ocelli 

 on each side :10, arranged in 3 series (1+4, 3, 2), those of the upper 

 row largest, those of the middle row intermediate. Prosternal teeth 

 2-2, small. Spines of the first legs 1, 2, 1 ; penult legs with 1 accessory 

 claw, spines 1, 3, 3, 1 ; anal legs with the claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 3, 1 ; 

 the last 3 pairs of coxae armed with a spine dorsally, the last 2 also 

 laterally. Coxal pores very small, round, 2, 2, 3, 3-3, 3, 4,''3. Gono- 

 pods of $ : claw tripartite, the lobes all short, not very acutely pointed ; 

 basal spines 2-2, acuminate, the two outer longer than the inner ones. 



Length of body 8 mm.( ? )-8.5 mm. (o") ; width of Stlvdorsal plate 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



■ 1.2 mm.(c?)-1.4 mm. (9); length of antemise 2.2 mm.( ? )-2.S 

 mm. (c?); length of anal legs 2.2 mm.( ? )-2.8 mm. (d ). 



Habitat. — Shasta Springs, Cal. 



Etymology .—The Sastians or Shastans were a tribe of Indians for- 

 merly holding the country about Mt. Shasta, the locality in which 

 the specimens were collected. 



8- Lithobius mesechinus sp. nov. 



Description. — Testaceous-brown, the legs and antennae 3-ellow, head 

 and dorsal plates smooth or scarcely roughened, glabrous; ventral 

 plates sparsely pilose, the posterior ones more denseh' so; legs very 

 sparsely pilose; antennae with the ultimate articles sparsely proxdded 

 Avith stiff hairs, elsewhere very nearly glabrous. Head wider than 

 long (7:6.25). Antennae: articles 19-21, short, the ultimate shorter 

 than the 2 preceding taken together. Ocelli on each side : 13, arranged 

 in 3 series (1 +5, 4, 3), pale. Prosternal teeth 2-2, pale, small. Spines 

 of the first legs 1, 3, 1; spines of penult 1, 3, 3, 1-1, 3, 3, 2; anal legs 

 ^Yiih. the claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 2, 0; last 2 coxae armed laterally 

 toward dorsum and also dorsally; the median ventral spines of legs 

 conspicuously longer than the others. Gonopods of 9 : claw tripar- 

 tite, basal spines 2-2, acute. 



Length of body 9-10 mm.; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.5 mm.; 

 length of antennae 2-3.5 mm.; length of anal legs 3.5 mm. 



Habitat. — ^Meacham, Oreg. 



Etymology. — Greek" /-^sffo?, middle, and exr^o?, a hedgehog, spiny 

 object, etc., so named in reference to the long median ventral spines 

 of the legs. 



9. Lithobius castellopes sp. uov. 



Description.— Bro\\n, legs and antennae paler, yellowish: head and 

 dorsal plates smooth; head sparsely pilose with moderately long hairs; 

 dorsal plates very sparsely pilose, more especially the posterior ones, 

 particularly about the margins ; ventral plates, prosternum and prehen- 

 sorial feet sparsely pilose, the genital segment nearly glabrous below; 

 legs sparsely pilose; antennae subdensely clothed with rather long stiff 

 hairs. Head nearly equal in length and wddth. Antenna : articles 20, 

 mostly short, the ultimate equal to or a little longer than the two pre- 

 ceding taken together. Ocelh on each side : 12. in 3 series (1 +5, 4, 2). 

 Prosternal teeth 2-2, small. Spines of the first legs 1, 3,^2-2, 3, 2; 

 penult legs having the claw armed with 2 accessory spines or claws, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



spines 1, 3, 3, 1; anal legs with the claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 2, 0, in 

 the d^ much modified, enlarged, the tibia above at the distal end pro- 

 duced into a large knotty lobe, the lobe truncated posteriorly, sparsely 

 pilose, bearing upon its posterior surface a spine which projects cau- 

 dally; the last 2 pairs of coxse armed laterally, the last 3 dorsally. 

 Coxal pores very small, 2, 3, 3, 2 



Length of body 8.8 mm.; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.3 mm.; length 

 of antennae 3 mm.; length of anal legs 3 mm. 



Habitat. — Shasta Springs, Cal. 



Etymology. — Latin castellum, a citadel or fortified place, and jjes, 

 foot, a name suggested by the appearance of the enlargement on the 

 tibia of the cJ* anal legs. 



10. Lithobius clavigerens sp. nov. 



Descri'ption.- — Color of body, antennse and last pair of legs brown, 

 other legs yellowish ; head and dorsum smooth and glabrous, the head 

 sparsely minutely punctate; ventral plates and the presternum with 

 prehensorial feet smooth, sparsely pilose, the last 2 together with the 

 genital and anal segments subdensely pilose ; antennae pilose, the outer 

 surface of the proximal articles subglabrous. Head sub-round, about 

 equal in length and width, narrowed anteriorly. Antennae: articles 

 20, the ultimate about equaling in length the 2 preceding taken to- 

 gether. Ocelli: 10-14, pale and distinct, in 3 series (1 -|-5, 5, 3). Pro- 

 sternal teeth 2-2, moderately small. Spines of the first legs 1, 3, 2, 

 penult legs with 1 accessory claw, spines 1, 3, 3, 1; anal legs with the 

 claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 2, 0. Anal legs in 9 scarcely more slender 

 than in cJ* ; the exterior and interior superior margins of tibial and 

 tarsal joints extended laterally, making the upper surface flat, the 

 femur compressed in a different plane; the tibia densely punctate 

 beneath, the tarsal joints less densely so; the first tarsal joint with a 

 knob-like swelling at proximal end (absent in cJ^) ; penult legs similarly 

 modified to anal and to a scarcely smaller degree. In the 6^ the anal 

 legs are also swollen along or a little below the superior margins, but 

 the expanded portions are thicker and not so suggestive of flattening ; 

 tibia marked above for its entire length by a ridge-like swelling which 

 at the proximal end is produced upward and inward into a conspicuous 

 pilose lobe, tibia sparsely punctate beneath, the tarsal joints more 

 densely so; in the penult legs the tibia is somewhat similarly modified 

 to that of the anal legs, but the lobe at the proximal end is missing^ 

 not so strongly modified as in $ . Coxal pores small and round, 

 3, 4, 4, 3. Cionopods of $ : claw rather large, tripartite, lobes all acute. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the middle one much longest; basal spines 2-2, moderate, subequal, or 

 the inner ones a little longer. 



Length of body 10.5-11 mm. ; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.4^1.5 mm. ; 

 length of antennae and of anal legs each 4 mm. 



Habitat. — Pacific Grove, Cal. 



Etymology.— 'Loitva. clavis, a club, and gerens, participle of gerere, to 

 bear; so named because the swelling on the dorsal surface of the tibia 

 in the c^ anal legs suggests a club with the large end placed proxi- 

 mally. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Kil 



DESCRIPTIONS OF SEVERAL FISHES FROM ZANZIBAR ISLAND, TWO OF 

 WHICH ARE NEW. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



A small collection of fishes has recently been forwarded to the 

 Academy from Zanzibar Island, East Africa, by Sir Charles Eliot. 

 At present all of the examples are contained in the collections of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



PLATACID^. 

 1. Platax vespertilio (Bloeh). 



17SS. Chatodon vespertiHo Bloch, Ichtliyologie, 11, pt. 6, p. 49, Plate 199, 

 fig. 2; Je I'ai trouve parmi les poissons qu'on m'a envoyes du Japon. 



1S66. Platax vespertilio Plaj'fair, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 64; Aden; Zanzibar 

 [No descr.] 



Head 2|; depth equal to length; D. VI. .35; A. Ill, 26; P. 18; \'. 1.5; 

 scales, in the lateral line to the base of the caudal 66, between the 

 origin of the soft dorsal and the upper curve of the lateral line about 

 24, and between the latter and the origin of the soft anal 38; width of 

 head 1| in its length; snout 2J; eye 3^; maxillary 3^; interorbital 

 space 2f ; pectoral H; least depth of caudal peduncle 2J; ventral 1| 

 in body. 



Body very deep, greatly compressed, more or less trenchant above 

 and below, and the greatest depth about midway in the length of 

 body and between the origins of the soft dorsal and anal fins. Cau- 

 dal peduncle short, deep and strongly compressed. 



Head short, very deep, greatly compressed, and its greatest width 

 at the preopercle considerably wider than any other portion of the body. 

 The snout is rather long, steep, l)lunt and rounded above. Eye small, 

 high in the head, and a little anterior. Mouth .small, broatl and 

 nearly horizontal when closed. Maxillary small, obliquel}' vertical, 

 and hardly reaching beyond the anterior nostril. Teeth small, sharp- 

 pointed, and in rather narrow bands in the jaws, ^^omer and palatines 

 smooth. Mandible rather broad and slightly protruding, so that the 

 anterior profile of the body forms a 1)lunt angle at this point.. Tongue 

 not distinct from the floor of the mouth. Anterior nostrils circular, 

 with the space between less than the space between the posterior pair, 

 II 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



and situated much nearer the front rim of the orbit than the tip of 

 the snout. Interorbital space rather broad and convex. 



Gill-opening oblique, and carried forward below the froiit rim of the 

 pupil. Gill-rakers short, and in moderate number. Pseudobranchiae 

 absent. Gill-filaments very long and numerous. 



Peritoneum silvery. 



Scales small, finely ctenoid, and arranged in rather narrow vertical 

 series. The greater basal portions of the vertical fins covered with 

 small scales. Snout, interorbital space, occipital process, jaws and 

 lower surface of the head naked, otherwise covered with small scales. 

 No pectoral flap. A'entral connected at the base by two frena, the 

 outer scaled, and the inner joining the innermost ray with the belly. 

 Lateral line continuous, strongly arched anteriorly. 



Dorsal spines graduated from the first, which is verj- short, to the 

 last, which is many times its length. The anterior rays of the soft 

 dorsal and anal are very elongate and produced, those of the former 

 nearly as deep as the body. They become graduated posteriorly 

 to the last 'which are very short. The anal spines are similar to those 

 of the dorsal, only much shorter. Caudal small, and rather deep. 

 Pectoral short. "S'^entral very long, the outer rays three times the 

 length of the inner, or half the depth of the body. 



Color in alcohol dark brown, the soft dorsal and anal blackish. 

 Caudal blackish at base and sharply defined from the rest of the fin, 

 which is pale straw color. Pectoral pale brown. "\'entral blackish. 

 Length 3t inches. * 



Two examples. The larger, which is described above, agrees with 

 Bloch's figure perfectly in the broad vertical fins and the dark sharply 

 defined color on the base of the caudal. The other has the dorsal, 

 anal, and ventral very much more elongate, and the colors paler. These 

 fins are blackish, and the outer edge of the ventral is whitish. 



Xo traces are evident of the two vertical bands shown on the anterior 

 part of the body, like those in Riippell's figure of Platax albipunctatus. 



BALISTID^. 



2. Balistapus aculeatus (Linnaus*. 



1758. [Batistes] aculeatus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 328; India. 

 1866. Batistes aculeatus Giinther, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 134; Zanzibar. 



[No descr.] 

 1870. Batistes actdeatus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., YIII, p. 223; Isle 



of France; Island of Johanna (Coll. Dr. Kirk); Zanzibar (Coll. Lieut.-Col. 



Playfair); West Coast of Africa; Moluccas; Amboyna (Coll. M. Frank); 



China Seas ; Pacific (Coll. M. Haslar); Feejee Islands; Micronesia (Coll. 



M. Wright) ; Seychelles (Coll. Prof. E. P. Wright) ; Mauritius. 

 1899. Batistes aculeatus Jatzow and Lenz, Abhand. Senck. Naturf. Gesel., 



XXI. p. .530; S. Juan de Nova: Zanzibar (Coll. Dr. Voeltzkow). [No descr.]. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Head 2f : depth li; D. III-2.5; A. 21; scales about 42 to base of 

 caudal; width of head 2 in its length; depth of head, measured verti- 

 cally over posterior rim of orbit, greater than the length of the head 

 by a little over half an eye-diameter; snout If; eye 3f ; interorbital 

 space 3f ; first dorsal spine ly^o^; base of soft dorsal If; base of anal If; 

 caudal 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3i; pectoral 2f . 



Body elongate, somewhat elliptical and strongly compressed. The 

 greatest depth about the middle of its length, or in the region of the 

 base of the ventral spine. Caudal ])eduncle compressed and rather 

 thick. 



Head long, angular, the upper profile more or less straight, at least 

 in front, and the lower profile evenly convex. Snout long, convex 

 above, very oblique, and the cheek compressed. Eye small, high, 

 very posterior, and about two-fifths the length of the snout. Mouth 

 small, and with thick fleshy lips. Jaws nearly equal, the teeth pro- 

 truding. Teeth large, powerful, the edges sharp and notched. Nostrils 

 small, very close together, lateral and in front of the eye above. Inter- 

 orbital space, together with the space posterior to the eyes, convex. 



Gill-opening small, about two-thirds the interorbital space. 



Peritoneum black. 



Scales all very rough, those on the head and abdomen all more or 

 less in oblique rows, and those on the trunk in nearly vertical series. 

 Tubercles on the back between the dorsal fins enlarged, much larger 

 than the three horizontal series of spines on the side of the caudal 

 peduncle. A number of rather long spines between the ventral spine 

 and the origin of the anal fin. About five enlarged bones above the 

 base of the pectoral behind the gill-opening. 



Origin of the spinous dorsal about over the gill-opening, the first 

 spine very large, robust and rough on the anterior surface, second 

 spine much smaller and slender, and the third minute. The fin is 

 depressable in a groove. Soft dorsal and anal opposite, and the rays 

 all of nearly uniform height or about equal to the length of the eye. 

 Caudal broad, rather deep, and the margin straight. Pectoral broad, 

 rounded and short. Ventral spine rather long, freely movable and 

 rough. 



Color in alcohol faded more or less uniform brown. Side with a 

 deep brown band running from the gill-opening to the anter!'^^ and 

 posterior rays of the dorsal, leaving a pale area at the middle of the 

 base of this fin. Below, and running obliquely backward to the. base 

 of the anal, are first one broad dark band, and then three T'ligs, pV. 

 The dark band from the eye down to the base of the pectoralif ;. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



and the dark interorbital space with four narrow connecting Unes is 

 also very distinct. Three series of tubercles on the side of the caudal 

 peduncle blackish. Membrane of the spinous dorsal blackish, the other 

 fins plain pale brown. Very indistinct traces of the pale longitudinal 

 lines on the soft dorsal and anal are still evident. 



Length 2^% inches. 



One example. 



TETRAODONTIDJE. 

 3. Tetraodon aerostaticus (Jenyns). 



1842. Tetrodon aerostaticus Jenyns, Zool. Voy. Beagle, Fish, pt. 4, p. 152. 



[Locality unkno-wm.] 

 1866. Tetrodon lineatus Giinther, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 131; Zanzibar. 



[Not of Linnaeus.] 

 1870. Tetrodon stellatus Gunther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., VIII, p. 294; Port 



Natal (Coll. M. Ayres); Zanzibar (Coll. Lieut.-Col. Playf air) ; Amboj^na 



(Colls. M. Frank, Dr. Bleeker. Type of Tetrodon astrotaenia Bleeker) ; 



Japan; Feejee Islands. [Part, not var. a and 8.] 



Head 2^; depth (not inflated) about 2f ; D. 10; A. 10; P. 19; width 

 of head greater than its length by nearly an eye-diameter ; snout 2 in 

 the head; eye about 6; interorbital space If; length of dorsal 2^; 

 anal 2f ; caudal 2; pectoral 3; width of base of pectoral about 3i; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 4. 



Body short, broad, and the belly capable of being greatly inflated, 

 the greatest width about the bases of the pectorals. Caudal peduncle 

 not very long, compressed. 



Head large, very broad, rounded or strongly conic above. Side 

 of the head more or less constricted, and the cheek not very convex. 

 Snout rather long, rather obtuse, and its upper profile a little concave. 

 Eye rather small, about two-fifths the length of the snout, high, and 

 about midway in the length of the head. Mouth rather small, broad, 

 its width nearly twice the eye-diameter. Lips broad, fleshy, covering 

 the greater portions of the teeth. Teeth large, very powerful, the 

 cutting edges concave and the suture without deep groove or ridges 

 on each side. Bifid tentacle conspicuous, about the last third of the 

 space between the upper lip and the front margin of the eye. Inter- 

 orbital space very broad, nearly flattened in front, and becoming 

 gradually slightly convex posteriorly. The internasal space is about 

 one-lf^f as wide as the interorbital. 



GilV'Qpening nearly as wide as the base of the pectoral, or about 

 equal^o the internasal space. 

 ^ ^' ( "iioneum silvery. 



-Tono ^^^ exception of the lips, bases of the fins, and caudal peduncle, 

 XXI 



■ ^1 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



the body is covered with rather large conspicuous spines, which are 

 very rough to the touch. Those on the upper surface are short and 

 sharp, and those on the belly elongate and somewhat clavate. 



Origin of the dorsal nearer the tip of the caudal than the posterior 

 margin of the eye, and the fourth ray the longest. Anal entirely 

 behind the dorsal, the fifth and sixth rays the longest, and, like the 

 other fins, rounded. Caudal elongate, deep, and the margin rounded. 

 Pectoral broad, the upper rays the longest, and situated directly 

 behind the gill-opening. 



Color in alcohol 'dark brown, especially on the back, the belly hardly 

 paler. The back, upper portion of the head, caudal peduncle, and cau- 

 dal fin, marked with numerous small round blackish spots. The dorsal, 

 anal and pectorals plain brown without markings. The flanks 

 are marked with about six oblique blackish bands, the first few broad- 

 est, and none of them extending on the middle of the belly. Vent 

 blackish. Bases of the pectoral and anal with several dark spots. 

 Length 4^ inches. 

 One example. 

 4. Tetraodon immaculatus (Schneider). 



1801. [Tetrodon] Immaculatus Schneider, Syst. Ichth., p. .507. [After Lace- 



pede.] ^ 

 1866. Tetrodon immaculatus Giinther, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 132; Aden; 



Zanzibar. 

 1870. [Tetrodon immaculatus] var. immaculata Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. 

 Mus., VIII, pp. 291, 292; Port Natal (Coll. M. Ayres); Zanzibar (Coll. 

 Lieut.-Col. Playfair); Mauritius (Coll. M. Cuming); Penang (Coll. Dr. 

 Cantor); East-Indian archipelago; New Caledonia (Coll. M. Cuming); 

 Australia. (Colls. M. Gould, Earl of Derby.) 



Head 2f ; depth (not inflated) about 2f ; D. 8; A. 9; P. 17; width of 

 head 1^ in its length; snout 2^ in the head; eye 6^; interorbital space 

 2 ; length of dorsal 2^ ; anal 2\ ; caudal li ; pectoral 2f ; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 3. 



Body rather short, compressed, moderately broad, and the belly 

 capable of great inflation, the greatest width about the bases of the 

 pectorals. Caudal peduncle rather short, deep and compressed. 



Head moderately large, rather broad, rounded and little depressed 

 above. Side of the head not very convex. Snout long, blunt, and 

 with the upper profile straight. Eye small, a little nearer the gill- 

 opening than the tip of the snout. Mouth small, terminal, obhque , 

 with the mandible protruding, and its width about equal to one and 

 one-half eye-diameters. Lips broad, fleshy, and almost entirely cov- 



' Based on " Le tetrodon sans-tache" Lac^pede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., I, 1798, pp. 

 47.5, 486, plate 24, fig. 1. [From Commerson; no locality.] 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ering the teeth. Teeth large, very powerful, the cutting edges of the 

 mandibulars more concave than those above, and the suture with a 

 i^ronounced groove but no ridge on either side. Bifid tentacles large, 

 very conspicuous, and placed about the last third of the space between 

 the upper lip and the front margin of the eye. Interorbital space 

 broad and slightly convex. 



Gill-opening equal to the internasal space or not quite as wide as 

 the base of the pectoral. 



Peritoneum silvery. 



Lips, eyehds, margin of gill-opening, bases of the fins and the caudal 

 peduncle naked, the other portions covered with rather large sharp 

 spines, those on the belly longest and more or less slightly clavate. 



Origin of the dorsal fin is much nearer the posterior margin of the eye 

 than the tip of the caudal fui, and the fifth ray is the highest. The 

 anal is similar to the dorsal, entirely posterior, and with the sixth ray 

 the longest. Caudal long, rather broad, and with the margin shghtly 

 rounded. Pectoral broad, the upper rays the longest, and the fin 

 rather short. All the fins have rounded edges. 



Color in alcohol dark brown, the belly paler, and everywhere more 

 or less uniform. Dorsal, anal and pectoral uniform pale brown. 

 Caudal dark brown, with the margin all around broadly bordered with 

 blackish brown. Each prick or spine is pale or whitish. The lips and 

 bases of the fins are very dark brown. 



Length 3f inches. 



One example. 



SCORP^NID^. 

 5. Pterois lunulata Schlegel. Plate VI. 



1843. Pterois lunulata Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., p. 45, Plate 19; 



la baie de Nagasaki, principalement a Fembouchure des fleuves. 

 1866. Pterois lunulata Plaj^fair, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 48; Aden; Zanzibar. 



[No descr.] 



Head 2^; depth 3i; D. XIII, I, 10; A. Ill, 7; P. 14; V. I, 5; scales 

 64 in a lateral series to the base of the caudal, and about 4' more on 

 the basal portion of the latter; about 11 scales between the second dor- 

 sal spine and the lateral fine; 16 scales between the lateral hne and the 

 origin of the anal, and about 25? between the former and the middle 

 of the belly; width of head l^ in its length; depth of head 1^; snout 2f 

 in head; eye 4^; maxillary 2; mandible If; interorbital space 4f ; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 3^; first dorsal spine If; second 3 in body; 

 bird 2f; fourth 2i; fifth 2^; sixth 2i; thirteenth 2f in the head; 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167, 



third dorsal ray, 1|-; third anal spine If; third anal raj' 1 : caudal 2f 

 in body; ventral spine 1§ in head; ventral fin 2 J in body. 



Body elongate, compressed, the greatest depth about the anterior 

 dorsal spines. 



Head compressed, rather deep and somewhat bluntly pointed. 

 Its greatest width is a little greater than the greatest width of the 

 body, which is at the bases of the pectorals. Snout rather long, blunt, 

 and with a marked prominence above. Preorbital space broad. 

 Eye moderate, high, and a little anterior in the head. ^louth large, 

 oblique, and the maxillary reaching back till below the front rim of 

 the pupil. Distal expanded extremity of the maxillary broad, equal 

 to three-quarters the eye-diameter, and inclined below ventrally. 

 Jaws and vomer with bands of very fine teeth. Tongue thick posteri- 

 orly, and in a rather long, thin, compressed point, which is free in 

 front. Lips fleshy, the lower on the side of each ramus of the mandible 

 very thick. The lower jaw large, protruding when the mouth is closed, 

 and Avith a small protuberance at the symphysis. The interorbital 

 space is rather narrow, deeply concave, and with a rather shallow 

 median groove. Nostrils Avell separated, circular, the rims a little 

 elevated, and the anterior with a small thin flap. 



No nasal spines. Preocular spines very blunt, and more or less con- 

 cealed in the skin. Postocular spine very broad, obtuse. Coronal 

 and tympanic spines developed as low obscm'e ridges, and with a simi- 

 lar median spine between the former. Parietal spines large and broad. 

 Nuchal spines small. Margin of the preorbital with two blunt, obtuse 

 spines. Cheek with a bony ridge, furnished with a blunt spine at the 

 preopercle. Margin of the preopercle with three obtuse spines. Mas- 

 toid and suprascapula each with a long spine. Opercle with a broad 

 spine posteriorly. 



Gill-opening large, continued forward below the posterior nostril. 

 Rakers short, thick. Gill-filaments much longer, though also rather 

 short. Pseudobranchiae. Isthmus broad, with a broad groove, and 

 the branchiostegal membranes connected for a short distance. 



Scales small, cycloid, and present on the greater part of the head, 

 except the jaws, snout and maxillary. A pair of short narrow cutane- 

 ous flaps at the tip of the snout, and the two large obtuse spines 

 along the preorbital margin each concealed in a rather long flap. 

 Three short dermal flaps along the lower margin of the preoperculum. 

 No flaps at bases of the paired fins. Scales rather large on the side 

 and posterior portion of the trunk. Bases of the caudal, pectoral and 

 ventral with small scales, the other fins without scales. Lateral line 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



concurrent with the back, sHghtl}' incHned, and running out on the 

 basal scales of the caudal. The tulles elongate. 



Peritoneum pale or whitish. 



Spines of the dorsal very high, graduated to the fourth, after which, 

 to the eleventh, they are more or less equal. The last two are much 

 shorter than the first. The membranes are only present on the basal 

 portion of the fin, though higher below the posterior longer spines. 

 Soft dorsal nearly twice as high as its base. Anal inserted nearly 

 midway between the origin of the ventral and the base of the caudal. 

 The anal spines are graduated to the third, which is the longest, and 

 the membrane joining it with the first anal ray is complete. Soft 

 anal long, inserted about under the origin of the soft dorsal, and twice 

 as high as the length of its base. Caudal very long, I'ounded and the 

 middle rays the longest. Pectoral very long, the upjDer rays reaching 

 beyond the caudal, and all united by a membrane, which is rather 

 broad basally though not extending beyond half the length of the 

 longest rays. A'entral inserted a trifle in advance of the pectoral, 

 the spine slender, and the fin reaching a little beyond the origin of 

 the soft anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brown, the head and trunk marked with a 

 series of deep brown alternating narrow and ]):'oad vertical stripes, or 

 bands. On the front part of the head these radiate from the eye. 

 and those on the trunk extend up on the basal portions of the vertical 

 fins, though soon fading away on the soft dorsal and anal. Stripes on 

 the interorbital space narrow and longitudinal. Region above the 

 base of the pectoral more or less blackish. Spines of the dorsal 

 marked with broad Ijlackish cross-bands. Soft 'dorsal, anal and caudal, 

 with the rays marked with about six series of narrow dark brown or 

 blackish cross-bars. Pectoral more or less blackish, the ra^'S with 

 broad whitish cross-bands, and reflected on the membranes at the 

 base of the fin as indistinct pale blotches. The l^asal portion of the 

 fin is pale brown, like the general body color, marked with deep brown 

 bands running into the black membranes. Inside of the base of the 

 pectoral Ijlackish, with several paler bands, and a few white spots. 

 ^"entral blackish, with several series of small white spots. 



Length 4^^ inches. j. 



One example. 



I follow Colonel Playfair in recording this species from Zanzibar. 

 Schlegel's figure is very crude and might easily be mistaken for some 

 other fish. Bleeker's figure is scarcely an im]irovement. 




1903.] XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



CEPHALACANTHIDuE. 



6. Cephalacanthus spinarella (Linnseus). 



17.5S. [Gasfe7-osleus] Spinarella Linna'iis, Syst. Xat., Ed. X, p. 297; India. - 

 1S66. Dactyloptenis orientalis Playfair, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 49; Aden; 



Zanzibar. [Xo descr.] 

 1893. Dactyloptenis orientalis Pfeffer, Jahrb. Hamburg. Wiss. Anst., X. 



p. 12; Sansibar. [Xo descr.] 



Head 3f ; depth 5; D. I-I-6-S; A. 6; P. 31 ; V. 5; scales, in a lateral 

 series to the base of the caudal 50. and about 28 in a transverse series 

 between the spinous dorsal and the middle of the belly ; width of head 

 lyV in its length; depth of head H; snout 2f ; eye 2f ; maxillary 2|; 

 width of mouth 2f ; mandible 2f ; interorbital space ly\; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 4^; first dorsal spine 1^; second 3^; third If; first 

 dorsal ray 1^; base of soft dorsal H; base of anal 2|; ventral 1^. 



Body elongate, depressed, the greatest depth about the base of the 

 ventral. Caudal peduncle broad, depressed, about as wide as deep at 

 its least depth. 



Head large, broad, and the greatest width a little less than the great- 

 est width of the body, which is at the bases of the pectorals. The upper 

 profile forms obtusely above the front of the eye. Snout broad, blunt, 

 rounded and projecting beyond the jaws. Eye large, nearer the tip 

 of the snout than the gill-opening in profile, and with the marginal 

 bones large and strong. Mouth inferior, much broader than long, and '* 



the maxillary hardly reaching below the middle of the orbit. Lips 

 rather thick. Teeth fine, minute, and in bands in the jaws, none on the 

 vomer or pa'atines. Tongue broad, short, angular, and not free from 

 the floor of the mouth. Upper jaw produced beyond the mandible. 

 Nostrils close together, with slighth" raised rims, and the space be- 

 tween the anterior pair, which are closer together than the others, about 

 two-fifths the interorbital space. Interorbital space ver}- broad and 

 deeply concave. Surface of the head almost entirely rugose, and the 

 opercle and preopercle striate. Suborbital spine short, reaching below 

 the upper margin of the preopercle, and forming a deepl}' dented 

 margin running up to the lower posterior rim of the orbit. Preopercle 

 ending in a very long dagger-like spine reaching opposite the fourth 

 dorsal spine. Nuchal crests strongly ridged, with several denticula- 

 tions, and reaching posteriorly below the tip of the preopercular spine. 



Gill-opening rather small, lateral, its length about equal to the eye. 



Peritoneum pale. 



Scales strongly keeled, bony, and arranged in longitudinal series. 



^ Based on [Pungitius] piisillus Linnanis, Mus. Adolph. Fred., 1754, p. 74, 

 Plate 32, fig. .5 (three figures). [Xo locahty.] 




1~0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADP:MY OF [Feb., 



On the anterior portion of the body the series are close together, 

 broadening ont behind so that some above run up tOAvard the middle of 

 the back, and some of the lower run toward the lower median line. 

 On the chest the scales are small and only slightly keeled. On each 

 lower side of the caudal pedunc'e are a series of three enlarged com- 

 pressed scales. The keels on the scales, in this region, are also large. 

 Base of the caudal above and below with elongate compressed scales. 

 Bases of the other fins without any scales. 



First dorsal spine situated at the angle of the nuchal shield, a little 

 before the gill-opening. Second dorsal spine short, nearer the third 

 than the first. Third dorsal spine a little nearer the posterior margin 

 of the orbit than the origin of the soft dorsal, and wdth the remaining 

 spines all graduated to the last which are A'ery short. Origin of the 

 soft dorsal a little nearer the l^ase of the first dorsal spine than the base 

 of the caudal, and the anterior rays the highest. Anal inserted a 

 little nearer the base of the caudal than the base of the A'entrals, 

 and the second ray about equal to the length of the caudal peduncle. 

 Caudal small, lunate. Pectoral long, reaching l^eyond the base of 

 the caudal, ^'cntrals close together, elongate, and reaching the anus, 

 which is a little distance in advance of the origin of the anal. 



Color in alcohol brown, a little darker above. Back with four 

 broad obscure saddle-like bands. A dark brown band connecting the 

 eyes and continued down below on each cheek. First dorsal spine with 

 a blackish membrane. Other dorsal fins dusky with obscure dark 

 brow^n cross-bars. Anal and ventral pale brown. Caudal barred 

 with brown. Pectoral blackish with obscure gray and dusky blotches. 



Length 4 inches. 



One example. 



BLENNIID^.-' 

 7. Aspidontus tractus sp. nov. Plate VH 



Head 3|; depth 5; D. XI, 28; A. 26; P. 14; V. 3; width of head 2yV 

 in its length; depth of head 1^^; snout 3i; eye 4^; width of mouth 4f ; 



' Graviceps, gen. nov. 



The genus Aspidontus as here understood includes but two species, the one 

 described above and A. tcmiatus Quoy and Gaimard. The species included by 

 Jordan and Snyder in their review of the Blennioid fislies of Jacan (Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., XXV, 1902, pp. 453 to 458) appear to form a separate genus. They 

 are all easilj^ distinguished by the short blunt snout, which is not produced or 

 pig-like. 



Type Petroscirtes elegans Steindachner. 



{Graviceps, heavy-head.) 




1903.] xaYural sciences of Philadelphia. 171 



interorbital space 4; depth of caudal peduncle 2^; width of base of 

 pectoral 4; length of pectoral 2+; ventral 2^. 



Body moderately elongate, strongly compressed, and the greatest 

 depth about the middle of the belly. The greatest width less than 

 that of the head, and at the bases of the pectorals. Caudal peduncle 

 not defined, as the posterior rays of the dorsal and anal are more or 

 less connected with the caudal, deep and strongly compressed. 



Head large, attenuate, conic, and its greatest width at the opercles. 

 The upper and lower profiles nearly evenh^ straight, so that the tip of 

 the snout is midway in the height of the head. Snout long, conic, 

 produced, and not very broad. Eye rather small, a little superior, 

 and Avell anterior. Mouth inferior, some little distance from the tip 

 of the snout, very broad, transverse, and the gape not reaching the 

 front margin of the orbit. Lips thin, that on the mandible rather 

 broad. Teeth compressed, uniserial in the jaws, and attenuately 

 rounded at their extremities. A large curved canine on r^ach side of 

 the mandible, and not separated from the others. Xo teeth on the 

 vomer or palatines. Nostrils well separated, the anterior about the 

 last fourth of the space between the tip of the snout and the posterior, 

 which is over the front rim of the orbit. The internasal space is about 

 two-thirds the diameter of the eye. Interorbital space rather broad, 

 convex like the rest of the upper surface of the head. The suborbital 

 bones are somewhat rugose and covered with, a thin membrane. The 

 sides of the head posterior and superior to the eyes are similar. The 

 lower surface of the head is broad, convex and rounded like the top or 

 upper surface. 



Gill-opening small, in front of the upper base of the pectoral and 

 about equal to the eye. 



Peritoneum whitish. 



Anus near the origin of the anal fin. 



Body naked, the skin smooth. Head with a number of small 

 mucous pores. Paired fins without flaps or sheaths. 



Origin of the dorsal well forward, only just a trifle behind the eye. 

 The spines are very flexible, hardly to be distinguished from the rays, 

 which are not branched. The bases of the former are a little further 

 apart than those of the rays. The first few spines are graduated, 

 after which the whole dorsal fin assumes a more or less uniform height 

 to the last rays, which decrease and are united with the caudal pedimcle 

 by a low membrane reaching to the base of the caudal. The anal is 

 similar to the dorsals, except that the margin of the fin is incised 

 between the rays. The anal spine is scarcely to be distinguished from 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the rays. The origin of the anal is much nearer the base of the caudal 

 than the tip of the snout. Caudal broad, somewhat truncate, and the 

 lower rays the longest. Pectoral broad, also rather truncate. Ven- 

 trals close together, inserted about opposite the last third of the space 

 between the posterior margin of 'the eye and the margin of the gill- 

 opening. 



Color in alcohol more or less dark slaty-blue, giving place to dark 

 brown. The posterior half of the trunk shading into dusk}^ A black 

 band, at first about half or a little less than the eye-diameter, running 

 from the snout through the eye and back along the upper part of the 

 side out on the caudal till near the tips of the lower median rays, 

 and then cm-\ang down or bent back a trifle. From above the origin 

 of the anal this band becomes much broader, occupjang most of the 

 upper portion till about as broad as the interorbital space. Belly 

 and lower surface rather pale. A short dark brown obhque streak 

 before the base of the pectoral. Margins of the dorsal, anal and caudal 

 whitish, that of the latter very broad, especially at the corners. On 

 the former two fins there is a narrow submarginal blackish band, 

 fading below toward the basal portions of these fins into the bluish 

 body color. Pectoral and ventral pale brown. 



Length 3^ inches. 



Type No. 24,207, Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. Zanzibar. Coll. Sir 

 Charles Ehot. 



The only example I have seen is described above. It is closely 

 related to Aspidontus taeniatus Quoy and Gaimard. It differs, however, 

 in the short dark streak in front of the base of the pectoral. Their 

 figiu-e is very rough, and shows the outer portions of the upper and 

 lower caudal rays bluish.* 



Dr. Giinther's figure of Petroscirtes tceniatus,'' if at all accurate, is 

 ( ertainly distinct. 



{Tractus, a streak.) 



ANTENNARIID^. 

 8. Antennarius argus sp- nov. Plate VUI. 



Head (measured to axil of pectoral) 2|; depth 1; D. 1-1-1-12; 

 A. 7; P. 10; V. 5; width of head (measured to axil of pectoral) 1^ in 

 its length; snout 4^ in head; eye about 8; maxillary 2; mandible 2; 

 width of mouth If; interorbital space 3; bait 2\; .second spine 3^; 



* Voyage del' Astrolabe, Zool., 1834, p. 719, Plate 19, fig. 4; Tile de Guam, devant 

 la ville d'Agagna. 



■' (Fische der Siidsee) Jovrn. Mtis. Godef., XI, 1876, p. 19.5, Plate 114, fig. A; 

 Freundschafts-, Paumotu- und Fidschi-Inseln. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



third spine If ; fourth dorsal ray 1|; base of anal 2^; fourth anal ray 2^; 

 caudal 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3J; base of pectoral 2^; base 

 of ventral 3^. 



Body deep, compressed, and the greatest depth about midway be- 

 tween the base of the first dorsal spine and the first dorsal ray. The 

 back is elevated and the belly round and swollen. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed, rather small. 



Head very large, deep, with a steep declivous profile. The lower 

 sides of the head about the greatest depth of the body, also its greatest 

 width. Snout very short, steep, rough and broad. Eye small, very 

 high and anterior. Mouth very large, nearly vertical, and the lower 

 posterior margin of the maxillary hardly reaching below the front 

 margin of the eye. Mandible very broad and with a slight knob at 

 the symph3^sis. Lips rather thick. Teeth minute, and in rather 

 broad bands in the jaws. Vomer and palatines with bands of minute 

 teeth. Tongue large, thick, occupying the whole of the floor of the 

 mouth, and with a patch of large short coarse teeth medianly. Nos- 

 trils small, obscure, close together, and near the edge of the snout. 

 Interorbital space broad, and rough. Top of the head below the 

 third dorsal spine swollen. 



Gill-opening a small pore at the lower base of the pectoral, and 

 nearly in the middle of the length of the entire fish. 



Peritoneum silvery. 



Anus near the front of the^anal fin and with a small genital papilla 

 posterior. 



Body very finely roughened everywhere, except on the lower 

 surfaces of the pectorals and ventrals. Tubercles on the head, and 

 in the lateral line anteriorly, not very conspicuous. 



Bait with a large tuft of filaments at its extremity. Second dorsal 

 spine closely following, and united behind with a broad roughened 

 membrane with the interorbital space. Third dorsal spine clavate 

 beginning at the tip of the depressed second spine or a little behind the 

 eye, and also united to the occiput with a broad rough membrane. 

 Soft dorsal rather high and long, and its margin straight. Anal small, 

 very posterior, and extending back rather far on the caudal peduncle. 

 Caudal large, broad and the upper rays the longest. All of the vertical 

 fins rounded. Pectoral large, and the tips of the rays projecting a 

 little beyond the membranes. Ventral similar to pectoral. 



Color in alcohol pale or dusky gray-brown, more or less uniform, 

 and marked everywhere with small round black ocelli, many scarcely 

 larger than the pupil of the eye. The lower surfaces of the pectoral 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



and ventral are blackish without distinct spots. On the back and head 

 many of the oceUi become very small. The outer portions of the paired 

 fins are also darker than the other parts. Along the upper portion of 

 the soft dorsal are four large blackish ocelli arranged at equal distances, 

 and posteriorly on the base of the fin a much larger one. Anal similar 

 but the basal ocellus at the fifth and sixth rays. There are also several 

 enlarged oceUi on the sides of the body and caudal fin. 



Length 3y^6 inches. 



Type No. 24,208, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Zanzibar. Coll. Sir 

 Charles Eliot. 



One example, described above. It resembles Antennarius phyma- 

 todes Bleeker somewhat in color, but is apparently more closely re- 

 lated to Antennarius polyophthalmus Bleeker, from which it is distin- 

 guished by the very numerous ocelli. 



Ayitennarius nigromaculatus Playfair is said to have a large black 

 patch extending over the whole of the abdominal region. 



(Argus, hundred-eyed, on account of the very numerous ocelU.) 



9. Antennarius tuberosus Cuvier. 



1817. Chironedes tuberosus Cuvier, Mem. Mus. Hist. Xat. Paris, III, p. 4.32; 

 risle de France. (Coll. M. Mathieu.) 



Head (measured to axil of pectoral) 2^; depth 2; D. I-I-I-U; 

 A. 7: P. 9; V. 5; width of head (measured at opercle) about li in its 

 length; snout 4 in head; eye about 6; maxillary If; width of mouth If; 

 interorbital space 3^; bait 4f ; second spine 4^; third sj^ine 2f ; eighth 

 dorsal ray 2; base of anal 1^; fourth anal ray 2; length of caudal 1^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; base of pectoral 2f ; base of ventral 



Sf. 



Body elongate, compressed, and the greatest depth about the origin 

 of the soft dorsal. The back is elevated, especially between the third 

 dorsal spine and the origin of the soft dorsal, sloping down graduall}^ 

 behind to the caudal peduncle. The abdomen is very large, rounded, 

 or swollen. Caudal peduncle small, and but little free. 



Head moderate, very deep, and with a steep round anterior profile. 

 Side of the head more or less swollen in appearance, but with the 

 greatest width of the body at the base of the pectoral in front. Snout 

 very short, blunt, broad, and a little inclined. Eye small, very high 

 and anterior. Mouth large, inclined forward so that the chin is pro- 

 duced. Maxillary concealed below. ]\Iandible very broad and with 

 a small symphyseal knob. Lips thick. Teeth small and in rather 

 broad bands in the jaws. Vomer and palatines yviih bands of fine 

 teeth. Tongue large, free around the edges so that it is very thick, 




1903,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



occupying the whole of the floor of the mouth, and with a patch of 

 rather large teeth niedianly. Nostrils small, close together and a 

 little nearer the edge of the mouth than the front margin of the eye. 

 Interorbital space moderate, elevated and rough. Top of the head 

 below the third dorsal spine not very much swollen. 



Gill-opening a small pore just below the base of the pectoral, and 

 nearer the edge of the chin in front than the base of the caudal. 



Peritoneum grayish-brown . 



Anus conspicuous, in front of the origin of the anal. 



Body very finely roughened everywhere, except on the extremities 

 and lower surface of the pectoral and ventral rays. Tubercles on the 

 head and anterior portion of the lateral line obscure and inconspicuous. 



Bait short, with a small tuft of filaments at its extremity . Second 

 dorsal spine closely following, about opposite the front rim of the orbit, 

 free, and without membrane behind. Third dorsal spine large, thick, 

 not very high, and joined to the occiput by a narrow membrane. 

 Soft dorsal long, beginning a little behind the base of the pectoral 

 above, and with the upper margin only slightly incised between the 

 rays. Anal posterior, beginning a little nearer the tip of the caudal 

 than the origin of the ventral, rounded, and the edge more or less 

 similar to that of the soft doi-sal. Caudal rounded, somewhat ex- 

 panded, and the median rays the longest. Pectoral low, and the rays 

 free for a good portion of their extremities, ^'entrals situated below 

 the third dorsal spine and the ends of the rays also free for a good dis- 

 tance. 



Color in alcohol dark gray-brown, the margins of all the fins rather 

 broadly whitish. Side and head more or less obscurely marbled with 

 darker brown. The outer submarginal portions of all the fins blackish, 

 variegated with paler or brownish. Base of the caudal pale brown. 



Length 1| inches. 



One example. 



The name bigibbus^ cannot date from the original edition of Lacepede, 

 a? it was not used as a binomial. The next name apparently available 

 is that of Cuvier. 



Faunal Works. 



1S65. R. L. Playfair and A. C. L. G. Gunther. The Fishes of Zanzibar. Lon- 

 don. Pp. 1.53, Plates 21. (Acanthopterygii by Lieut-Col. Playfair and 

 Pharyngognathi, etc., by Dr. Gunther.) 



* Lophie double-bosse Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., I, 1798, pp. 302, 325, [No 

 locality. From Commerson MSS. as "Antennarius bigibbus, nigro et griseo 

 variegatus."] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



1868. A. C. L. G. GtJNTHER. Additions to the Ichthvological Fauna of Zanzi- 

 bar. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. London, (4) I, pp. 4.57-459, with fig. 



W. Peters. Chiloglanis Deckenii, iind einige andere Siisswasser-fische aus 

 Ostafrika. Monats. Ak. Wiss. Berlin, pp. 598-602, with plate. 



1869. R. L. Playfair. Further Contributions to the Ichtlivologv of Zanzi- 

 bar. Proc. Zool. Sac. London, pp. 239, 240. Addendum', p. 241, bv Dr. 

 Gunther. 



1873. A. C. L. G. Gunther. Further Additions to the Ichthvological Fauna 



of Zanzibar. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. London, (4) XII, p. 182. 

 1889... Georg Pfeffer. Ubersicht der von Herrn Dr. Franz Stuhlmann in 



Agypten, auf Sansibar und dem gegeniiber liegenden Festlande gesammelten 



Reptilien, Amphibien, Fische, Mollusken und Krebse. .Jahrb. Hamburg. 



tviss. Anst., VI, Fische, pp. 13-23. 

 1893. . Ostafrikanische Fische gesammelt 



von Herrn Dr. F. Stuhlmann im Jahre 1888 und 1889. Jahrb. Hamburg. 



tviss. Anst., X, pp. 1-49, Plates I-III. 

 1899. R. Jatzow and H. Lenz. Fische von Ost-Afrika, Madagaskar und 



Aldabra. Abhand. Senck. Naturf. Gesel., XXI, pp. 497-531, Plates 34-36. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



A REVISION OF THE ORTHOPTEEOUS GENUS HOMffiOGAMIA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The present study is based on an examination of forty-nine speci- 

 mens of the genus Homccogamia, from the collections of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the United States National 

 Museum. The receipt of an interesting series of specimens from the 

 southwestern United States prompted the author to study the genus 

 in detail. The results are here set forth. 



Probably the most striking thing observed on examination of the 

 literature and the material at hand is the scarcity of females of the 

 genus. This sex is positively known in but three of the six species, 

 and the rather extensive series studied contained but one adult 

 female specimen. 



In the case of known sexes or larvse unrepresented in the series 

 examined, the original description has been translated and placed in 

 the proper position. ♦ 



Several forms, in two cases based originally on the larvse, which have 

 not been recognized since the original description, are included at the 

 end of the paper. In these cases the descriptions have not been trans- 

 lated. 



HOMCEOGAMIA Burmeister. 



1838. Homceogamia Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., Bd. II, Abth. II, pt.l, 

 p. 490. 



1864. Homeogamia Saussure, M^m. J'Hist. Nat. Mexique, IV, p. 226. 



1865. Homoeogamia Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 360. 



1868. Polyphaga Walker (not of BruUe), Catal. Blatt. Brit. Mus., p. 13. 



1869. Homoeogamia Saussure, Mel. Orthopt., II, p. 102. 



1870. Homceogamia Saussure, Miss. Scientif. Mexique, Orth., p. 108. 



1871. Homwogaynia Walker, Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., V, Suppl. Catal. 

 Blatt., p. 3. 



1871. Polyphaga Walker (not of BruUe), Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., V, 



Suppl. Catal. Blatt., p. 3. 

 1890. Homaogamia Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. France (6), X, p. 137. 



1893. Homoeogamia Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc. 2, p. 294. 



1894. Homoeogamia Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, 

 p. 105. 



1900. Homoeogamia Scudder, Proc. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sci., VIII, p. 11. 



1900. Homoeogamia Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 85. 



1901. Homceogamia Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 220. 



1902. Homoeogamia Scudder and Cockerell, Proc. Davenport Acad. Sci., 

 IX, p. 19. 



1903. Homoeogamia Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila., LIV (1902), 

 i P- 717. 



12 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.; 



Type. — HomoEogamia mexicana Burmeister. 



Generic Characters. — Sexes dissimilar, but both with tegmina 

 developed. Tarsi without aroha. Males with the pronotuni 

 semicircular, sub-fusiform or pentagonous in outline; tegmina 

 elongate, at least two and a half times as long as the transverse 

 diameter of the pronotum. Females with the pronotum broad, 

 sub-fusiform in outline, the anterior margin more arcuate than 

 the posterior;^ tegmina comparative^ short and not more than one 

 and a half times as long as the broad scoop-like pronotum; wings 

 minute. Median and posterior tibiae wdth six or seven apical spurs. 

 Supra-anal plate of the male produced and distinctly bilobate, or pro- 

 duced and broadly emarginate. Supra-anal plate of the female 

 produced, broadly rounded, with a narrow median emargination. 



History. — The genus Homceogamia was originally founded in 1838 

 by Burmeister as a subgenus of Heterogamia {='Polyphaga Brulle). 

 It was based entirely on H. mexicana, and the distinguishing characters 

 were distinctly geographical — Heterogamia s. s. belonging to the Old 

 World, and Homceogamia to the New. In 1864, Saussure placed it 

 as a subgenus of Polyphaga, and located it in the ''Polyphagiens," a 

 division of the " Nuditarses," Latindia being associated with it. The 

 same author described a species, H. brasiliana, from Brazil, basing it 

 on a nymph. Brunner, in 1865, in his historic Systeme considered 

 the division that of a full genus, and placed it with Hetei^ogamia in a 

 new family — the Heterogamidse. In 1868, in the Catalogue of the 

 Blattarice in the British Museum, Walker erected the family Poly- 

 phagidse, in which Homceogamia was placed . Saussure, in the Melanges, 

 published in 1869, placed Homceogamia with Polyphaga in the ''Poly- 

 phagiens," w^hich he considered a division of the ''Blattaires Mutiques 

 a Tarses nus." He here also described H. sinensis, a species from 

 northern China, wliich, as later shown, he has since removed from the 

 genus. ^ The same writer, in the Mission Scientifique, pubhshed in 

 1870, considers the " Polyphagiens " as a division of the ''Nuditarses," 

 and Homceogamia was here regarded as a subgenus of Polyphaga. 

 In 1871 Walker described a species, Polyphaga (equalis, which is prob- 

 ably a representative of the genus Homceogamia, but it has not been 



^ This character also applies to the males of several species of the genus. 



- In the work above mentioned Saussure recognized the peculiar position of 

 this species as he says: "The presence of an arolium on the tarsi in this species 

 places it near Polyphaga (Heterogamia) ; nevertheless tlie appearance, the woolly 

 nature of the body, the width of the marginal field of the elytra, and the curva- 

 ture of the discoidal ner\'ures adds much to the analogy with Horn(£ogamia. 

 This species thus establishes a type between the two genera." 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



recognized since the original description. Bolivar, in 1890, described 

 the larva of a species of the genus from Venezuela, but refrained from 

 naming it, although he considered it new. Saussure, in 1893, pub- 

 lished his Revision de la Tribu des Heterogamiens, in which he placed 

 Homceogamia with Heterogamia in a separate tribe, along with two 

 new genera, Dyscologamia and Anisogamia, which contained species 

 from the Oriental region. South Africa and Central Asia. In this 

 paper he discusses at great length the relationship of Homceogamia and 

 Heterogamia, the result of which is that Homceogamia is restricted 

 to the forms occurring in the New World. After commenting on 

 Brunner's method of separating the genera, he presents the case in a 

 manner which should be quoted entire to be understood: 



"Depuis que les especes connues se sont multipliees, les limites 

 entre les deux genres sont devenues moins evidentes. On a trouve 

 en effet dans le regions chaudes de I'ancien continent des especes 

 chez lesquelles les femelles sont ailees et qui sembleraient par conse- 

 quent devoir rentrer dans le genre Homoeogamia bien que les males 

 possedent des pelottes entre les griffes. D'autre part, les males des 

 Heterogamia n'ont pas tous les tarses termines par une pelotte. Les 

 caracteres sur lesquels les deux genres semblaient reposer se trouvent 

 ainsi en apparence infirmes. On pourrait, il est vrai, chercher a 

 resoudre la difficulte en faisant passer dans le genre Homoeogamia les 

 especes de Tancien continent dont le femelles sont ailees, mais cet 

 arrangement ne s'accorderait ni avec les caracteres des males, ni avec 

 les caracteres fournis par les pieces anales des femelles. Cette reunion 

 ne serait done pas naturelle. Les deux genres primitifs (correspondant 

 a la distribution geographique des especes) sont au contraire nettement 

 separes et, si les especes ailees ( 9 ) de I'ancien continent ressemblent 

 aux Homoeogamia, cela tient seulement a ce qu'eUes ont parcouru 

 conmie ces dernieres la phase d'imago qui leur a donne des organes 

 du vol : elles n'ont pas pour cela perdu leur caractere cV Heterogamia. 

 Je n'hesite done pas a considerer toutes les especes de I'ancien conti- 

 nent comme etant des Heterogamia, et a restriendre le genre Homoeo- 

 gamia h. celles du nouveau monde. Les deux group doivent seule- 

 ment etre caracterises d'un maniere un peu differente qu'il n'a 6te 

 fait au debut. 



"Je distingue comme suit les deux genres ou plutot les deux types 

 propres a chacun des continents : 



"1° Homoeogamia. — d^$ toujom^ depoiuvus d'arohum entre les 

 griffes. — 9 9 . Le dernier segment ventral comprime en forme de bee a 

 son extremite ; ce bee Hmit6 k sa base par de profonds sillons et conmie 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



fendu, mais en realite seulement partage par un pli rentrant, en 

 general appreciable seulement sous la forme d'un sillon longitudinal. 

 (Le segment rappelant par son apparence le dernier segment ventral 

 des Periplanetiens.) 



"2° Heterogamia (sensu latiore). — c?c?. Tarses en general munis 

 d'un petit arolium. — 9 9 . Le dernier segment ventral non comprime 

 en bee, mais plat, avec le milieu renfle en bosse arrondie non partagee. 

 Le corps aile comme chez les Homceogamia, ou aptere de forme 

 ovale-orbiculaire ou ovoide, cilie sur ses bords, au moins le long du 

 pronotum." 



In the same year (1893) that the above appeared, but evidently 

 having priority of publication, Brunner described a species {Horn. 

 capucina) from Burma, which possesses a female with well-developed 

 tegmina. The genus is placed by the same author in the Corydidce, 

 to which the whole "Heterogamides"' is added. In 18P4, Saussure 

 and Zehntner, in the Biologia Centrali- America, placed Homceogamia 

 as a member of the subfamily Corydince. The inference drawn from 

 some statements in this work is that it was prepared before the 

 Revision . . . des Heterogamiens, but did not appear until later. 



The two Old World species mentioned above have both been elimi- 

 nated from Homceogamia, sinensis being removed to Polyphaga by 

 Dohra {Stettin Ent. Zeit., XLIX, p. 132, 1888) and capucina placed 

 in Dyscologamia by Saussure {Revue Suisse Zool., I, fasc. 2, p. 301, 

 1893). 



Remarks. — After a study of the available specimens, and an exami- 

 nation of the numerous statements made in the works mentioned in 

 the preceding historical sketch, the conclusion is reached that Homceo- 

 gamia, as defined by Saussure, in 1893, is a tenable genus, though 

 closely allied to Polyphaga Brulle {Heterogamia Burm. et auct.). 



The two South American species, which are known only from the 

 nymphs, have not been identified since the original descriptions, 

 and as no material in this genus from that region is available, nothing 

 critical has been done with them. The original descriptions of these 

 species have been placed at the end of the article with the diagnosis 

 of Polyphaga ceqvxilis Walker, which probably was based on some 

 member of this genus. 



Key to the subgenera {based on the males). 



A. — Supra-anal plate of male bilobate; median and posterior tibise 

 with six apical spurs; vertex rounded. 

 JS.^Marginal field of tegmina broad; tarsi comparatively robust, 

 metatarsi of median limbs about half as long as the tibiae, 



Homceogamia s. s. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



BB. — Marginal field of tegmina narrow; tarsi very slender and 

 elongate; metatarsi of median limbs about as long as 



the tibiae, Arenivaga n. subg. 



AA. — Supra-anal plate of male very broadly emarginate apically; 

 median and posterior tibiae with seven apical spines ; vertex 

 with a distinct angular transverse ridge, 



Eremoblatta n. subg. 



Key to the species (based on the males). 



A . — Supra-anal plate of male bilobate. 

 B. — Marginal field of tegmina broad. 



c. — Elytra tessellate, never tuberculate; veins in the distal 

 portion of the discoidal field longitudinal, 



mexicana Burmeister. 

 cc.^ — Elytra sparsely tuberculate at base; veins in the distal 

 portion of the discoidal field arcuate, azteca Saussure. 

 BB. — Marginal field of tegmina narrow. 



c. — Interspace between the eyes narrower than that be- 

 tween the ocelli. 

 d. — Size rather large (length including tegmina 23-29 



mm.), holliana Saussure. 



dd. — Size small (length including tegmina 19-21.5 mm.), 



erratica n. sp. 

 cc. — Interspace between the eyes not narrower than that 



between the ocelli, apacha Saussure. 



AA. — Supra-anal plate of male very broadly emarginate, 



subdiaphana Scudder. 



Siibgeuus HOMCEOGAMIA sen. strict. 



Svbgeneric Characters. — d\ Size rather large; form graceful. Teg- 

 mina elongate with the lateral margins sub-parallel; marginal field 

 broad, equal to one-third of the sub-basal width of the tegmina; veins 

 in the distal portion of the discoidal field arcuate transverse. Tarsi 

 comparatively robust; metatarsi of median limbs about half as long 

 as the tibia>. 



? . Size large; form obese. Tegmina broad, but slightly exceeding 

 the abdomen in length, the lateral margins parallel in the distal half. 

 Metatarsi of median limbs not half as long as the tibiae. 



Homoeogamia mexicana Burmeister. 



1838. Helerogamia (Homaeogamia) mexicana Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., 



Bd. II, Abth. II, pt. 1, p. 490. LMexico.] 

 1864. Polyphaga {Homceogamia) Mexicana Saussure, . M^m. I'Hist. Nat. 



Mexique, IV, p. 226. [Warm lands of the Eastern Cordillera; Orizaba, 



Mexico.] 



^ The distinguishing characters of the male of H. azteca are taken from Saussure, 

 as that sex has never been examined bv the author. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



1865. H[om(Bogamia] mexicana Brunner, Nouv. Sj'st. Blatt., p. 360. [Oaxaca, 



Mexico.] 

 1868. Pohjphaga Mexicana Walker, Catal. Blatt. Brit. Mus.,'p. 15. [Mexico.] 



1870. Homoeogamia Mexicana Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mexique, Orthopt.. 

 p. 108. [Eastern Cordillera, Mexico.] 



1871. Homoeogamia Mexicana Wallcer, Catal. Orth. Saltat. Brit. Mus., V, 

 Suppl. Blatt., p. 3. [Mexico.] 



1879. "Polyphaga (Homceogamia) mexicana Girard, Traits Ent., [II, p. 62." 



1893. [Homoeogamia] mexicana Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc. 

 2, p. 296. No localities cited. 



1894. Homceogamia mexicana Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 

 Orthopt., I, p. 106. [Ventanas in Durango, Sinaloa, and Cordova in 

 Vera Cruz, Mexico.] 



1900. Homceogamia mexicana Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 85. 

 [Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico.] 



1901. Homceogamia mexicana Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 220. 

 [Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico.] 



1903. Homwogamia mexicana Rehn, Trans. Amer, Ent. Soc, XXIX, p. 5 

 (Part). [Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico.] 



Description. — d"'. Body flattened, moderately elongate. Head 

 completely hidden under the pronotum; interspace between the eyes 

 about one-fourth that between the ocelli; antennse equal to the body 

 in length, setaceous. Pronotum elongate pentagonous, arched trans- 

 versely, and supphed with a distinct median carina ; the lateral sections 

 shorter than the other dimensions, and converging posteriorly, the 

 posterior border which is linear, being the longest; surface scabrous, 

 the borders, beset with short hairs. Tegmina large, exceeding the 

 abdomen by one-half of their length ; surface coriaceous, sub-scabrous 

 at base, and becoming membranaceous along the posterior (internal) 

 margin, anterior margin hirsute; basal field broad, extending almost 

 the whole length of the tegmina, nervures obscured in the basal portion ; 

 discoidal field with the nervures sub-arcuate, ramose; anal field with 

 the principal nervures arcuate, all involved in an irregvilarly connected 

 mass by numerous cross branches. Wings about as long as the pro- 

 notum, apex rounded. Supra-anal plate with the apex bilobate, the 

 dividing emargination being narrow and comparatively shallow; sub- 

 genital plate transverse, centrally emarginate; cerci short, sparsely 

 hirsute. Tibiae with three rows of spines on their upper surfaces; 

 apical spius six in number. Metatarsi of anterior Hmbs more than 

 half as long, of median limbs half as long, and of posterior hmbs less 

 than half as long as their respective tibiae. 



General color reddish-brown, strongest on the pronotum and anal 

 field of the tegmina. Head brownish-black, ocelh orange, and clypeus 

 and labrum dull luteous ; antennse brownish, the extreme base blackish. 

 Under surface and hmbs reddish-brown, the apical section of the abdo- 

 men suffused with blackish. Pronotum frequently marked laterally 

 with very dull reddish. Tegmina sprinkled with translucent spots. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



which give a marbled appearance to the same; distal, sutural and 

 apical regions with this mottUng very indistinct, the spots of greatest 

 size in the distal portion, and very minute proximally ; marginal field 

 uniformly colored. 



Length of body 20-21 mm.; length of tegmina 26.5-30.5 mm.; 

 width of tegmina 10-10.5 mm.; length of pronotum 6.5-7 mm.; width 

 of pronotum 9.5-11 mm. 



9. ''No resemblance to the male. The insect in repose has a 

 regularly elliptical form, with the back normally inflated, recalling 

 the form of Corydia or Phoraspis. Prothorax very broad, arched, 

 corneous, imwrinkled, with the two borders regularly arcuate, though 

 the anterior is stronger so than the posterior; the margins on the sides 

 form a sharp dentiform angle, which is placed a little posterior; the 

 disk with almost the same ridges as in the<^, but not the impression. 

 Elytra of the length of the abdomen, hard and corneous, resembling 

 two valves, terminating in rounded points; the surface densely sha- 

 greened ; the nervures as apparent as the principal veins in the corneous 

 mass of the elytra, and very much branched; no anal ridge or only 

 slightly indicated toward the internal (posterior) border of the elytra 

 in the form of a sub-transparent line. Scutellum very slightly uncov- 

 ered. Prothorax and elytra densely haired, especially on the borders. 

 Abdomen broad; the penultimate segment very arcuate, the last with 

 its posterior half strongly compressed, carinate, rostrate and divided, 

 resembling two closed A'alvcs; supra-anal plate rounded and divided. 

 Anal filaments slim and short. 



"Body brown or blackish; tarsi testaceous. Prothorax and elytra 

 brown, the latter marbled with much paler speckles. 



"Length of body 25 mm., length of pronotum 8 mm., width of the 

 pronotum 12.5 mm." 



Larva: "Thed^ larvae are a chocolate-brown color and are densely 

 haired. On the disk of the pronolum the hairs form longitudinal 

 lines which correspond to the furrows. The supra-anal plate is trans- 

 verse, a little arcuate, bordered, divided by an emargination; the sub- 

 genital plate Mith the posterior border arcuate. The form is the same 

 as in Heterogamia." 



Distribution. — This species has been recorded from the States of 

 Rinaloa, Durango, Vera Cruz and Oaxaca, Mcx. In Vera Cruz it has 

 been taken only in the Eastern Cordilleran region. 



Remarks. — The series of five males of this species examined by the 

 author exhibits no apparent difforonce. except a slight variation in 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the shape of the pi-on'otiim, a condition found in most of the species of 

 the genus. 



Specimens Examined. — Five males; Jahipa, A'era Cruz, ]\lex. (Bar- 

 rett). (Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila.) 



Homoeogamia azteca Saussure. 



1893. [Homceogamia] azteca Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc. 2, 

 p. 296. fMexico.f 



1894. Homoeogamia azteca Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Or- 

 thopt., I, p. 106. [Omilteme, Guerrero, Mexico.] 



1903. Hommogamia mexicana Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XXIX, p. 5 

 (Part). [Uruapan, Michoacan, Mexico.] 



cJ'. "Antennce rufescent. Pronotum fuscous or rufous, a httle 

 heavier granulate than in H. mexicana. Eyes sub-contiguous. Elytra 

 castaneous at the base, sparsely tuberculate, from here densely 

 sprinkled with small white maculations, tips griseous: \-eins of the 

 discoidal area arcuate. Wings hyaline, humeral and discoidal veins 

 partly fuscous; costal region beyond the middle infuscate, margin 

 narrowly yellow; apical margin and part of the posterior very narrowly 

 infuscate. Feet rufo-castaneous, coxse and femora more or less testa- 

 ceous. Posterior metatarsus of the d"' equal in length to the other 

 joints combined, longer than a fourth of the tibia. Abdomen castane- 

 ous, paUid at base, margins with fulvous fimbria^, which are shining 

 rufous. Cerci rufescent. Supra-anal plate testaceous, apex with a 

 minute triangular incision, bilobate; sub-genital plate ^^-ith the margin 

 rufescent, broadly subsinuate, styles lateral. 



"Length 21-23; elytra 32-34.5; im)notum 6.5-7.5, width of i^ro- 

 notura 10.75-12 millim." 



9. Size large; form elliptical; surface sub-scabrous. Head with 

 the interspace between the eyes less than that between the ocelli; 

 antennae short, slightly more than half the length of the body. Pro- 

 notum elliptico-f usiform ; anterior margin strongly arcuate, posterior 

 gently aix-uate ; lateral angles sligl^ly produced posteriorly. Tegmina 

 with the lateral margins parallel in the proximal half; apex sub- 

 acuminate, narrowly rounded; veins and nervures indistinct and 

 slightly marked. Scutellum considerably exposed. Abdomen broad, 

 flat. Supra-anal i)late produced, rotundate, narrowly emarginate cen- 

 trall}-. Sub-genital plate compressed, rostrate, divided; penultimate 

 segment with the apical margin triangularly arcuate. Metatarsi in 

 no case exceeding half the length of their respective tarsi. 



General color dull blackish-brown, obscurely blotched with yellow- 

 ish-)jrown. These blotches are larger toward the apex of tlie teg- 

 mina. Under surface dull red-brown ; coxtp. limbs, abdomen, terminal 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



plates, labrum and basal joints of the antennae sprinkled with dull 

 golden hairs. Head except labrum and lower half of clypeus black; 

 oceUi reddish-orange; eyes brown. 



Length of body 22.7 mm. ; length of tegmina 21 mm. ; greatest width 

 of tegmina 9.5 mm.; length of pronotum 8.5 mm.; width of pronotum 

 14mm. 



Distribution. — This species has been i)reviously recorded only from 

 Omilteme, Guerrero, j\Iex. The female from Uruapan. Michoacan, 

 which is here described, extends the range somewhat to the north. 



Specimens Examined. — One female; Uruapan, Michoacan, Mex. 

 (Rhoads.) (Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila.) 



Subgeuu.s ARENIVAGA n. subg. 



Subgeneric Characters. — o'. Size medium to rather small. Teg- 

 mina with the lateral margins gently arcuate; marginal field narrow, 

 equal to one-fourth of the sub-basal width of the tegmina; veins in 

 the distal portion of the discoidal field obliquely transverse, straight. 

 Tarsi very slender and elongate; metatarsi of median limbs about as 

 long as the tibiee. 



9 . Adult unknown. 



Type. — Homceogamia boll tana Saussure. 



Homoeogamia boUiana Saussure. 



1893. [Homoeogamia] Bolliana Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc. 2, 



p. 296. [Texas.] 

 1S94. Homceogamia boUiana Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 



Orthop., I, p. 107. [New Mexico; Texas.] 

 1900. [Homoeogamia] boUiana Scudder, Proc. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sci., 



VIII, p. 11. [Texas; New Mexico.] 

 1902. Homoeogamia bolliana Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVH, p. 331. 



[Round Mountain, Texas.] 

 1902. Homoeogamia bolliana Scudder and Cockerell, Proc. Davenport Acad. 



Sci., IX, p. 19. [New Mexico; Las Cruces, N. M.] 



d' . Size medium ; form elongate-elliptical ; surface finely punctulate 

 on the pronotum, tegmina sub-coriaceous. Head with the interspace 

 between the eyes not more tlian one-half of that between the ocelli; 

 ocelli large, their upper surface in contact with the e3^es; antenna^ 

 about equaling the bodj'' in length, basal joint comparatively large. 

 Pronotum fusiform or elongate pentagonous, the two extremes con- 

 nected by numerous intermediates ; the anterior margin is generally 

 more arcuate than the posterior, though in the elongate pentagonous 

 type they are sub-equal; median section with two narrow sub-parallel, 

 centrally placed impressed lines, which are supplemented posteriorly 

 by two laterally placed, curved impressed areas; surface of the pro- 

 notum and anterior margin liirsute. Tegmina elongate, apex rounded ; 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^ 



anterior margin with short hairs, the surface of the whole tegmen with 

 short, closely adpressed hairs; basal field without ^'e^y distinct 

 nervures; nemu-es of the discoidal field straight, oblique, parallel, 

 seldom bifurcate; anal sulcus strongly arcuate; anal field nervures 

 distinct and connected by numerous short cross ner\aires. Wings 

 apically rounded, anterior margin straight in the proximal two-thirds. 

 Abdomen "broad, flattened, segments sUghtly projecting laterally. 

 Supra-anal plate produced, sub-truncate ; median portion with a 

 shallow, triangular emargination. Sub-genital plate ^\ith the posterior 

 margin sub-truncate ; median portion with a very shallow, broad 

 emargination. Cerci depressed, tapering, exceeding the anal plates 

 in length. Metatarsi of anterior hmbs slightly exceeding the tibiae 

 in length; of median limbs equal to the tibise; of posterior limbs exceed- 

 ing half the length of the tibiae. 



General color reddish-brown, strongest on the central portion of the 

 pronotum. Anterior and lateral margins of the pronotum pale yellow- 

 ish, translucent. Tegmina sprinkled "^ith small irregular blotches of 

 umber; anterior margin reddish-brown, which is also the color of the 

 hairs on the pronotum and tegmina. Head black; basal joints of 

 antennae and oceUi j^ellowish-orange. Under surface of abdomen, 

 limbs, labrum and lower half of clypeus pale yello'^dsh-brown ; apical 

 section of abdomen suffused with dull browoiish. 



Length of body 14.5-19.5 mm.; length of tegmina 19-24.2 mm.; 

 greatest width of tegmina 7.5-10 mm.; length of pronotum 5-6 mm.: 

 width of pronotum 7.5-9.2 mm. 



? . Fully adult condition unknown. 



Larva. — Form ovate, the apex anterior; surface ptmctulate, the 

 margins of the pronotum, thoracic and abdominal segments, as well as 

 the surface of the body suppHed with short stiff hairs. General color 

 reddish-brown to brownish-black, the anterior and lateral margins 

 of the pronotum touched ^^•ith j^ellowish or whitish. Lower surface 

 reddish-brown, strongest on the apex of the abdomen. Abdomen 

 sometimes bearing a longitudinal row of black blotches on each side. 



Distribution. — ^This species is apparently rather generally distributed 

 over Texas. Specimens in the material examined are from Shovel 

 Mount, Burnet county; Round Mountain, Blanco county; Austin, 

 Travis coimty ; San Marcos, Hays county; De\'ils RiA'^er and Pecos High 

 Bridge, Valverde count}-. The U. S. National Museum collection also 

 contains specimens from Victoria, Victoria county; Dallas, Dallas 

 county, and Carrizo Springs, Dimmit county. The only definite record 

 from New Mexico is from Las Cruces. Donna Ana county. The species 




1903.] NATUliAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



is seen to extend from east central Texas to the Rio Grande Valley in 

 New Mexico, and from the Red River region to south central Texas. 



Remarks. — This species exhibits a great variation in size, and also 

 in the shape of the pronotum. 



Specimens Examined. — Nineteen males, eight larvae: 

 14. Shovel Mount, Burnet county, Tex. September 2-October 29, 



1901. (Schaupp.) (Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila.) 

 4. Round Mountain, Blanco county, Tex. (Schaupp.) (Acad. Nat. 



Sciences Phila.) 

 2. Austin, Travis county, Tex. Feb. 19, 1903. (Wheeler.) (Acad. 

 Nat. Sciences Phila.) 



1. San Marcos, Haj's county, Tex. (Pilsbry.) (Acad. Nat. Sciences 



Phila.) 



2. Devils River, Valverde count}'', Tex. (Pilsbry.) (Acad. Nat. 



Sciences Phila.) 

 2. Pecos High Bridge, Valverde county, Tex. (Pilsbry.) (Acad. 



Nat. Sciences Phila.) 

 2. Texas. Riley Coll. (U. S. N. M.). 



Homoeogamia erratica n. sp. 



Type. — (J' ; Prescott, Yavapai county, Ariz. June 10, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) (Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila.) 



Differing from holliana in the smaller size, the greater interspace 

 between the eyes (which is much more than half that between the 

 ocelli, instead of half or less than half), the obscure character of the 

 nervures of the distal portion of the marginal field, and more forked 

 structure of the nervures of the distal portion of the discoidal field. 



Description. — d^. Size rather small; form acute elliptical; surface 

 sub-coriaceous. Head with the interspace between the eyes shghtly 

 less than that between the ocelli ; ocelli very large, and in contact with 

 the eyes along their superior margins ; antennae almost equal to the 

 body in length ; basal joint rather elongate. Pronotum sub-triangular, 

 the basal line being represented by the posterior margin; posterior 

 margin very broadly arcuate, lateral angles rounded; anterior margin 

 and surface covered with hairs, those on the margin being rather long, 

 and those on the surface very short. Tegmina elongate, the apex well 

 rounded; proximal portion of the anterior (lateral) margins sparsely 

 haired ; basal field with the nervures but slightly marked distally, not 

 visible in the proximal portion; nervures of the discoidal field parallel, 

 oblique, straight, frequently bifurcate ; anal sulcus rather deep, strongly 

 arcuate. Wing reaching the tips of the closed tegmina, apex broadly 

 rounded. Supra-anal plate produced, with a median triangular emar- 




188 I'KOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ginatiou. Sub-geiiital plate produced, rounded, with a shallow, 

 rotundate, apical emargination. Cerci short, depressed, not exceed- 

 ing the sulD-genital plate in length. 



General color brownish-gray, the pronotum with a few median marks 

 of dull brown. Tegmina obscurely dusted with irregular blotches of 

 brownish. Head black, except the labrum, clypeus, mandibles and 

 inter-antennal area which are yellowish-white ; ocelU veiy pale amber ; 

 antennae pale brownish, except the basal joint which is yellowish- 

 white. Limbs and imder surface very pale sandy brown; spines on 

 the former rich reddish-brown. 



Length of body 14.5 mm. ; length of tegmina 18 mm. ; greatest width 

 of tegmina 7 mm.; length of pronotum 4.5 mm.; \^-idth of pronotum 

 6.2 mm. 



? . Unknown. 



Distribution. — This form is known only from Prescott and Tucson, 

 Ariz. 



Remarks. — This species presents some considerable variation in 

 size, and also in the intensity of the coloration. The specimens from 

 Prescott are much gi-ayer than the Tucson specimen, which is a pale 

 straw-brown in color. 



Specimens Examined. — Three males : 

 2. Prescott, Yavapai county, Ariz. June 10, 1902. (Oslar.) (Acad. 



Nat. Sciences Phila.) 

 1. Tucson, Pima county, Ariz. June 22. (U. S. X. M.) 



Homoeogamia apacha Saussure. 



1893. [Ho}72ceogamia] apacha Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc. 2, 

 p. 296. [Chihuahua, Mexico.] 



1894. Homoeogamia apacha Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 

 Orthopt., I, p. 107. [State of Chihuahua, Mexico.] 



Description. — d"'. Size small; form elongate ovate; surface sub- 

 coriaceous. Head with the interspace between the eyes equal to that 

 between the oceUi; antennae not quite equal to the body in length. 

 Pronotum triangular, the posterior margin longer than the other sides ; 

 surface covered with short appressed hair, the anterior margin with 

 them much the longer. Tegmina elongate with the apex well rounded ; 

 basal field comparatively broad, the nervures distinctly visible in all 

 but the extreme basal portion; nervures of the discoidal area rather 

 irregular, frequently forked. Wings with the apex sub-acuminate. 

 Supra-anal plate produced, rounded, deeply divided apically. Sub- 

 genital plate produced, apically with a broad, shallow, triangular emar- 

 gination. Cerci slightly longer than the sub-genital plate, appressed 

 acuminate. Anterior metatarsi longer than the tibia; median meta- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



tarsi not more than two-thirds the length of the tibia; posterior meta- 

 tarsi sHghtly more than half the leng-th of the tibia. 



General color wood-brown, marked on the pronotum with a darker 

 shade of same color; hair on the pronotum red-brown. Tegmina 

 obscurely mottled mth general tint, the lighter spots being sub-hyaline, 

 except in the anal and basal section of the discoidal field. Color of 

 the imder surface and hmbs pale wood-brown, darkest in the anal region 

 and on the spines of the limbs. 



Length of body 11.7-15.2 mm.; length of tegmina 14-18; greatest 

 width of tegmina 6-7 ; length of pronotum 3.7-4.5 ; width of pronotum 

 5.2-6.5. 



9. '"(Nymph?) Rufo-ferrugineous, apterous, head and feet testa- 

 ceous. Supra-anal plate transverse, margin little arcuate, slightly 

 incised. Cerci tuberculiform. Last ventral segment flat, rounded, 

 both sides sinuate, produced in the centre. Length 13; pronotum 

 4.6; width of pronotum 7 millim." 



Distribution. — The series examined includes specimens from Phoenix, 

 Tempe and Fort Grant, Ariz. These with the type locahty. Chihuahua, 

 cover the known distribution of the species. 



Remarks. — The most striking variation in the specimens examined 

 appears to be that of size. The coloration appears, from the speci- 

 mens at hand, to be quite constant. 



Specimens Examined. — Five males : 

 2. Fort Grant, Graham county, Ariz. July 17 and 22. (Hubbard.) 



(U. S. N. M.) 

 2. Phoenix, Maricopa county, Ariz. April 29, 1902. (Oslar.) (Acad. 



Nat. Sciences Phila.) 

 1. Tempe, Maricopa county, Ariz. April 26, 1902. (Oslar.) (Acad. 

 Nat. Sciences Phila.) 



Subgenus EREMOBLATTA n. subg. 



Subgeneric Characters. — c^. Size small. Vertex of the head with a 

 distinct angular transverse ridge. Tegmina with the nervures in the 

 anal field very distinct. Median and posterior tibiae with seven apical 

 spines. Supra-anal plate very broadly emarginate apically. 



? , Unknown. 



Type. — Homceogamia subdiaphana Scudder. 



Homoeogamia subdiaphana Scudder. 



1902. Homceogamia subdiaphana Scudder, Proc. Davenport Acad. Sci., IX, 



p. 19. [Las Cruces, N. M.] 

 1902. Homceogamia subdiaphana Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phila., 



LIV (1902), p. 717. [Alamogordo and Highrolls, N. M.] 



cJ*. Size small; form slender and elongate. Head wdth the inter- 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



space between the eyes slightly greater than that between the ocelli ; 

 vertex with a distinct transverse ridge which divides the apical from 

 the inferior surface of the head ; antennae slender, filiform, shorter than 

 the body. Pronotum sub-triangLilar; sm-face velvetinous and some- 

 times haired; the posterior margin broadly arcuate, the anterior 

 semicircular; both margins closely haired, those of the anterior margin 

 much longer than on the posterior; lateral angles obtuse, inconspicu- 

 ous, Tegmina with the surface glabrous, the distal half membrana- 

 ceous ; apex sub-acuminate, rounded ; anterior (lateral) margin basaUy 

 supplied with long hairs ; marginal field with the nervures absent in the 

 proximal portion; discoidal field with the nervures obliquely parallel, 

 almost longitudinal; anal field with the nervures distinctly visible 

 and strongly arcuate. Tarsi "with seven apical spurs. Sub-genital 

 plate with the apex broadly emarginate, the lateral shoulders pro- 

 duced into distinct dentiform processes, the intervening diastema 

 being of moderate depth and evenly rounded. Cerci flattened, very 

 short. 



General color wood-brown. Head blackish; ocelli amber-yellow. 

 Pronotum with the anterior and lateral margins pale yellowish, the 

 hair, which is present on the margins and sometimes on the disk, being 

 of the same tint; disk blackish with two large lateral and one small 

 medio-posterior dot of red, which are more or less conspicuous. Teg- 

 mina with the general tint strongest on the nervures of the proximal 

 half of the tegmina. Under siu-face yello^wash-brown, suffused with 

 darker brown in the anal region. 



Length of body 9.5 mm.; length of tegmina 14 mm.; greatest width 

 of tegmina 5 mm.; length of pronotum 3-3.5 mm.; width of pronotum 

 4.2-4.5 mm. 



9 . Unknown.* 



Larva: Form ovate, the abdomen very broad. Pronotum similar 

 to that of the male in general outUne. Supra-anal plate transverse, 

 the posterior margin rounded and centrally emarginate. General 

 color wood-brown, edged on the pro- and mesonotum with ochraceous. 

 Pro-, meso- and metanotum centrally ornamented with blotches of 

 ochraceous, the penultimate abdominal segment bearing lateral 

 blotches of the same tint. 



Distribution. — This species has been recorded only from the Rio 

 Grande Valley at Las Cruces, N. M., and the San Augustine Plain 



* The specimen described by the author (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., LIV 

 (1902), p. 717) as a female is in a larval condition and the sex is uncertain. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



and foothills of the Sacramento Mountains at Alamogordo and High- 

 rolls, Otero county, N. M. 



Remarks. — This species is so peculiar and distinct from the other 

 forms of the genus that it is easily recognized. The series examined 

 is quite uniform in size, and the color differences are very slight. 



Specimens Examined.— Fleven; ten males, one nymph: 

 10. Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. April 11-June 6, 1902. (Vie- 

 reck and Rehn.) (Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila.) 

 1. Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. June 13, 1902. (Viereck.) 

 (Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila.) 



Unidentified Forms. 



Polyphaga (Homeogamia) brasiliana Saussure. 



1864. Polyphaga {Homeogamia) Brasiliana Saussure, Mem. I'Hist. Nat 



Mexique, IV, p. 228. 

 1868. Polyphaga Brasiliana Walker, Catal. Blatt. Brit. Mus., p. 15. 



"Nymphe cJ*. Corps un peu voute, suborbiculaire, finement striole 

 ou ponctue. Le premier arcticle des antennes mediocrement long, 

 assez gros; le deuxieme petit; le troisieme deux fois plus long. Pro- 

 thorax large et court; son bord anterieur a courbure obtuse, subangu- 

 laire au milieu; les angles lateraux tres-aigus; le bord posterieur un 

 peu arque, subsinne avant les angles. Abdomen aplati, large, a bords 

 faiblement dentes; segments dorsaux 8, 9 tres-distincts, decouverts; 

 le bord posterieur du 7me presque en demi-cercle ; en dessous le penul- 

 tieme segment petit, tres-arque ; ses deux extremites presque cachees 

 sous le precedent. Plaque sous-genitale ayant son bord posterieur 

 en forme d'angle obtus; ce bord fortement depasse par la lame sous- 

 anale fendue, laquelle est a son tour debordee par la plaque suranale ; 

 celle-ci transversale, a bord posterieur presque droit, et un peu fendu ; 

 la face superieure cannelee au milieu. Styles anaux tres-distincts. 

 Pattes greles, allongees; epines tibiales longues et greles. 



"Couleur d'un marron ferrugineux, presque testacee en dessous; 

 vertex, front et labre superieur, offrant une bande brune; antennes 

 ferrugineuses, plus foncees en dessus; bords du thorax cilies de polls 

 ferrugineux, et ^'aries de testac^-jaunatre; sur la ligne mediane chaque 

 segment orne de deux joints jaunes; ces points se continuant sur 

 r abdomen en devenant plus vagues; les segments abdominaux orn^s 

 en outre de chaque cote d'une marque jaune et d'un point brun; te 

 thorax en dessous jaune-testace. 



"Longueur du corps, 0,017; — largeur du prothorax, 0,0115; — id. de 

 I'abdomen, 0,014.5. 



•' Habile: Le Br6sil." 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Polyphaga aequalis Walker. 



1871. Polyphaga cequalis Walker, Catal. Spec. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., V, 

 Suppl. Catal. Blatt., p. 3. 



"Male. Piceous. Head black; clypeus, palpi and antennae red. 

 Prothorax scabrous, transversely elliptical; anterior half of the border 

 red ; some longitudinal impressed lines in the disk. Pectus, legs, sides 

 of the abdomen and hind borders of the segments tawny; femora 

 setose beneath. Fore ^vings extending for full half the length beyond 

 the abdomen, with numerous minute pale testaceous dots, occasionally 

 with a large pale testaceous patch in the disk near the base. Hind 

 wings pellucid ; veins paler. Length of the body 8-9 hnes ; expansion 

 of the fore T\ings 28-30 lines. The prothorax is regularly elliptical, 

 and thus differs from that of P. Mexicana, in which the hind part is 

 broader than the fore part, and is truncated on each side. a-b. South 

 Mexico." 



This is apparently a member of the genus Homoeogamia, but cannot 

 be positively identified. It is possibly a synonym of -mexicana, as 

 Walker's knowledge of the latter species must have been limited, as 

 his statement regarding the form of the pronotum in that species is 

 partially erroneous. 

 Homoeogamia n. sp- Bolivar. 



1890. Homoeogamia n. sp. Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. France (6), X, p. 137. 



"Un seul exemplaire a I'etat de larve. 



"Possedant dans ma collection des individus a divers-degres de 

 developement, je peus affirmer seulement que cette espece ne se rapport 

 pas a H. mexicana Burm., avec qui je I'ai comparee, ni a H. hrasiliana 

 Sauss., bien que cette derniere espece ait ete decrite sur un male a 

 I'etat de nymphe. Le pronotum est convert de granulations mili- 

 aires, ses sillons dorsaux etant remplaces par de simple depressions, 

 ce qui donne a I'insecte un facies un peu different des autres Hommo- 

 gamia. — Caracas. 



" Je crois cette espece nouvelle, mais ne possedant pas des individus 

 bien developpes, je ne la decris pas." 




1903.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



MOLLUSCA OF WESTERN ARKANSAS AND ADJACENT STATES, WITH A 

 REVISION OF PARAVITREA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Early in 1901 Mr. J. H. Ferriss explored for mollusks a portion of 

 southwestern Missouri, western Arkansas, and some adjacent locali- 

 ties in the Indian Territory, the region covered lying inainly north of 

 that exploited in 1900.^ 



The rugged topography of a portion of this region, and its elevation 

 above the plains on all sides, have resulted in the evolution of many 

 species and subspecies special to the tract. The general conditions 

 of life are varied from those prevailing over the comparatively level 

 States along the Mississippi, and with this change has come readjust- 

 ment on the part of the snails. The mode of this readjustment I hope 

 to study further when more material is available. From the data pre- 

 sented in this paper and my article of 1900 on the same fauna, it appears 

 that — 



(1) Species having a wide geographic range become much more vari- 

 able in this district. 



(2) Variation is usually 7iot indiscriminate, but in the large majority 

 of individuals follows one or two definite lines of deviation from the "nor- 

 mal" or widespread form. 



(3) Various specific stocks show various degrees of deviation or 

 differentiation from their widespread "normal" forms. 



The first of these propositions is exemplified by a large nmnber of 

 species, and would be noticed by any one possessing the material for 

 comparison. The second point is one of some importance. It is 

 illustrated likewise by many species, of which several may be taken 

 as examples. Gastrodonta demissa is a snail ranging from "Western 

 Pennsylvania to Georgia, west to Arkansas and Eastern Texas. "^ 



' See Pilsbry in these Proceedings for 1900, pp. 449-459, and especially Ferriss, 

 Nautilus, XIV, pp. 25-31, July, 1900, where the country is described, and many 

 species not in other lists are noted. Information ijearing on the molluscan 

 fauna of adjacent districts may be found in the following papers: F. A. Sampson. 

 "Shells of Pettis county. Mo.," in Bull. I, Sedalia Natural History Society (1885) ; 

 "Preliminary List of the Mollusca of Arkansas," Ann. Rep. Geol. Surrey of 

 Arkansas for 1891, Vol. II, pp. 179-199 (1893); C. T. Simpson, "Notes on Some 

 Indian Territory Land and Fresh-water Shells," in Proc. U. S. National Mu- 

 seum, 1888, pp. 449-454. 



■•' Pilsbry, Catal of the Land Shells of America, p. 28 (1898). 



13 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADloMY OF [i'<l>-, 



In tfii.s area it is not known to vary much east of tlio Mississippi. 

 Several years ago I received a number of specimens from Arkansas 

 which differed from all previously known in having the whorls so 

 closely coiled as to make the axis quite imperforate, and at the same 

 time the whole shell was flatter. This form I called (JaHirodordo, 

 hrillfii. Subsequently, specimens from another Arkansan locality 

 came to my hands, in which there was a lamella within the aperture, 

 a structure unknown in the species elsewhere. These became (J. 

 (lemma var. lameilata. The abundant series collected by Mr. Ferriss 

 since these supposed subspecies were discriminated, shows that in 

 their area they coexist with snails indistinguishable from iOastern 

 (J. demifssa, and that the variation of that species in this area is not 

 indeterminate, but toward the one or the other of these two diverse 

 mod(>s of modification. 



Polygyra rrtomjflon is in the same ca.sc. In western Arkansas, 

 three weakly differentiated forms occur, which have been named 

 oilci'K, friersoni and imperff/rata. All are closely r(;lated to, and 

 <loubtless descendants of, the widespread P. m. fralerna; and all three 

 occur around some localities.^ JJut in examining several hundred indi- 

 viduals I did not find the variation indiscriminate;, even in a small 

 percentage of the snails, but always toward one or the other of the three 

 differentiation-lines signalized by the three subspecific namcis, without 

 individuals intermediate between them, or otherwise modified, as the 

 species is in some other regioas. 



Without further multiplying instances, I may say that wliile in 

 certain districts, usually of rugged and varied topography, widesprf-a'! 

 species of snails become locally variable, there lias come to my notice 

 but little of the multifarious variation called for by the theory of 

 natural selection. What strikes one is the urjjformity with whicli 

 modifications, varying in amount, yet follow definite; paths. 



This impression left by studies of the snails of thr; L'nited States, I 

 would never have gained from what I have seen of certain Antillean 

 genera, such as Cerion or the Jamaican (JrocojAis. In these groups 

 there seems to be great and multifarious variation, without elirrjina- 

 tion f)f intermediate forms, thus making specific lines merely arbitrary. 



Iyi.st of Specie8. 



Localities marked with an asterisk (*) in tliis list are given on Mr. 

 I-'erriss' authority. 



"See my former paper on Arkansan snaiUi, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, pp. 

 4'>'i-4rjfj, w}|f;r«' tfi'; data on diHtribution an; (^iven. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



POMA-TIOPSIN^. 

 Pomatiopsis lapidaiia (Say). 



Seligman, Barrj' county, Mo. 



HELICINID^. 

 Helicina orbiculata tropica 'Jan.,. 



Seligman.* Mo.; Petit Jean,* Yell county, Ark. 



HELICID^. 

 Polygyra leporina (Old.). 



Poteau* and Antlers,* I. T. 

 Polygyra dorfeuilliana (Lea,. 



Springfield, Green county, southwestern ^lissouri. Typical P. 

 dorfeuilliana sampsoni Weth., 7.8 to 8.2 mm. diam. Seligman, Barr}'- 

 county, southwestern ^Missouri. Typical P. d. sampsoni, diam. 8-9 

 mm. 



Chester, Crawford county, Ark. Yar^'ing from 6^ to 8 mm. diam., 

 some specimens sho\\ing transition toward var. sampsoni in width of 

 the umbiUcus. 



Rich Mountain, Polk county. Ark. Specimens typical, 7-7f mm. 

 diam. 



Hot Springs, Garland county, Ark. Like the preceding. 



Carrion Crow Mountain, in Gum-dog township, Pope county. Ark. 

 This is about ten miles north of Petit Jean Mountains. Rather hea\y 

 specimens, 6.2 to 7.6 mm. diam., with the lower lip-tooth somewhat 

 prominent in a basal \'iew. 



Tushkahoma, I. T. The specimens vary from 6.2 to 8 mm. diam., 

 are rather sohd and somewhat more striate beneath than in typical 

 dorfeuilliana. The parietal tooth is rather small. The umbihcus 

 varies from that of typical dorfeuilliana to as wide as sampsoni, so that 

 there is here a perfect transition between the two. A large series 

 was collected. 



Antlers, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Three specimens measuring 6, 6.2 

 and 7.5 mm. diam. The lip is much thickened, immersing the teeth, 

 and the parietal tooth is unusually large and square. 



In the largest shell the umbihcus is that of sampsoni, and the aperture 

 less obstructed, diam. 8 mm. 



Standley, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Diam. 7 to 7.5 mm., the specimens 

 varying from dorfeuilliana to sampsoni in umbihcus. Aperture normal. 



Poteau, Choctaw Nation, I. T, Rather sohd, distinctly striate 

 beneath, varvang from 7.5 to 8.7 mm. diam., and from the small 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.. 



umbilicus of dorfeuilliana to the widely open condition of sampsoni. 

 most of the specimens intermediate in size and umbilicus. A large 

 series. 



In some portions of southern Missouri and adjacent counties of 

 Arkansas, the specimens are larger than typical dorfeuilliana, and 

 widely open beneath, showing over one whorl. They are usually 

 quite glossy, and rather weakly striate on the base. This form, var. 

 sampsoni Weth., seems to be quite distinct in this area. In the eastern 

 part of Indian Territory, the shells are rather heavier, more distinctly 

 striate on the base, and wherever a large series was collected they vary 

 from the dorfeuilliana form, in which but one whorl or a little less is 

 exposed beneath, to the sampsoni form of base ; most specimens being 

 intemiediate in these characters. This area therefore is one in which 

 differentiation has not taken place — a transition region. Cf. these 

 Proceedings for 1900, p. 449. 

 Polygyra jaeksoni (Bland). 



Springfield, Green county, and Chester,* Crawford county, Mo. ; 

 Poteau* and Rich Mountain,* Ark. 

 Polygyra cragini (Call). 



DeKalb,* Cleburne county, Ark. ; Antlers,* I. T. 



Polygyra neglecta Pils. 



T. fallax Say var. minor, Wetherby, Some Notes on American Land Shells. 

 No. II, p. 11, in Joum. Cincinnati Soc. N. H., IV, December, 1881, p. 33.3. 

 Polygyra neglecta Pils., Nautilus, XIII, p. 40 (August, 1899). 



The above reference to Mr. Wetherby's work was overlooked by 

 me, or not recognized as pertaining to this species, w^hen I defined 

 P. neglecta in 1899. He says: "Years ago I received from Springfield. 

 Mo., a small variety of this species [Triodopsis fallax], much lighter 

 colored, with a thicker and hea\aer shell than the type, with the 

 peristome reflected backward and rounded, and having a very distinct 

 facies. I have recently received the same variety from Mr. Sampson, 

 who collected it at Eureka Springs." 



The form would hardly be recognized from this note without speci- 

 mens from the localities mentioned ; and as several forms of the genus 

 have already been called "var. minor/' it will probably not be advis- 

 able to revert to that name. Mr. Ferriss procured specimens at 

 Seligman, Barry county, and Springfield, Green county, both in south- 

 western Missouri. 

 Polygyra infleota (Say). 



Petit Jean, Yell county. Ark.; diam. 9-11 mm. Seligman, Mo., 

 normal specimens with strong teeth, diam. 10 mm., and a very distinct 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



race in which the teeth are much reduced, though still the lip-teeth are 

 decidedly stronger than in P. edentata. Specimens measure — 



Alt. 5.3, diam. 11.5 mm.; whorls 4|. 



Alt. 5, diam. 9.5 mm.; whorls 4^. 



The last whorl is somewhat more costulate behind the lip than usual 

 in P. inflecta. This form may be called var. media. 



P. inflecta was taken also at Rich Mountain,* Hot Springs* and 

 Carrion Crow Mountain,* Ark.; Tushkahoma* and Standley,* I. T. 

 Polygyra edentata (Sampson). 



Chester, Crawford county, western Arkansas. Two specimens sent 

 measure 12 and 14 mm. diam., and have 5 and 5^ whorls. Eighteen 

 were taken at this locahty. 



Polygyra albolabris alleni (Wetherhy). 



Mesodon albolabris Say, and var. minor A. G. Wetherb}', Some Notes on 

 American Land Shells, No. II, in Joum. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., IV, 

 p. 11, December, 1881. Eureka Springs, CarroU countj^, Ark. 



M. albolabris Say, F. A. Sampson, BuU. No. 1, Sedalia Nat. Hist. Soc, p. 19, 

 1885. Sedalia, Mo. 



Mesodon albolabris Say, var. alleni (Wetherby) and var. minor Sampson, 

 Mollusca of Arkansas, in Ann. Rep. Geol. Surv. of Ark., II, pp. 189, 190, 

 1893. Carroll, Benton, Sebastian, Cra'wford, Garland, Washington, 

 White, Johnson, Nevada, and Independence counties, Ark. 



Polygyra albolabris alleni Weth., Pilsbry, in these Proceedings for 1900, 

 p. 451. Iowa and Arkansas. 



All of the above references pertain, I believe, to a single widespread 

 race of P. albolabris, varying in size and color almost as much as the 

 Eastern form of the species, but in a broad view distinguishable from 

 the latter by one, several or all of the following characters: The shell 

 is thinner, more depressed and more glossy; the spiral lines and other 

 minute scidpture are weaker; the lip is narrower, rounded rather than 

 i^at, with a weaker less angular rib within; the low basal tooth is fre- 

 quently more distinctly defined. Distribution, west of the Mississippi 

 from southern Minnesota to Arkansas, and eastward in the South to 

 Jackson county, in northern Alabama. 



In the North, P. albolabris replaces alleni east of the Mississippi river, 

 in Illinois. I have seen typical P. albolabris from west of the INIissis- 

 sippi only from Winfield, Henry county, in southeastern Iowa, where 

 it coexists with var. alleni. Owing to the frequent cutting of "ox- 

 bows" by the Mississippi, and the consequent transfer of islands from 

 one to the other side of the stream, even that great river is no bar to 

 the distribution of snails inhabiting lowland forests; and somewhere 

 along the immediate vicinity of the Mississippi the areas of albolabris 

 and alleni probablj^ overlap, with perhaps a belt of undifferentiated 

 intermediate forms. 




198 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Specimens of P. a. alleni from Albert Lea, Mimi., the most northern 

 point from which I have seen the variety, those from Winfield, Henry 

 county, in southeastern and Des Moines in central Iowa, are yellow or 

 whitish, small, averaging 23 mm. in diameter; 70 per cent, of those seen 

 measming from 22 to 24 mm., the extreme of size being 21 and 26 mm., 

 these extremes represented by very few specimens. I have below 

 plotted the curve obtained from measuring the diameters of a lot of 

 50 specimens from Des Moines, la., collected by Mr. T. Van Hyning. 

 The nimiber of indi\'iduals is probably sufficient to afford a perfectly 

 normal curve for the particular place these were obtained ; but the 

 specimens from Albert Lea, Minn., and Winfield, la., though few in 

 number, are so similar that I would not expect much difference in 

 their curves.^ 



Fig. 1, a-h, diameter variation curve of .50 shells of Polygyra albolabris alleni 

 £_^ from Des Moines, la. ; c-d, 18 shells from Seligman, southwest- 



em Missouri. 



This contrasts strongly with the conditions in western Arkansas. 



* This curve is remarkably symmetrical, the average diameter of the lot , 

 obtained by dividing the sum of their diameters by the number of specimens, prac- 

 tically coinciding with the diameter of the greatest number of individuals, repre- 

 sented by the mode or highest point of the curve. Variation in size is about 

 equal toward both minimum and maximum. Of course it is understood that 

 exact measurements of the shells would efface the angles of the "curve," espe- 

 cially'near the mode. I neglected fractions smaller than imm., as in organisms 

 of this size greater exactness would be mere pedantry. 



A widely different condition is seen in the other curve, in which the average 

 diameter is less than that of the greatest number of specimens. It must be 

 constantly borne in mind that tlie curve of the Seligman lot is probably widely 

 different from what a series of 50 or 100 specimens from that locality would 

 produce; but still the absence of individuals between 22 and 25 mm. diameter, 

 together with the fact that other localities in western Arkansas show a large and 

 a small form, leads me to suspect that a sufficient .series would form a bimodal 

 curve, the minor mode remot-e from the other, and probably near the 21 mm. 

 lien. 




1003.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



southwestern Missouri and the Indian Territory, where in many 

 localities there is a very much wider variation in absolute size. Thus, 

 in a series of 18 shells from Seligman, Barry county, southwestern Mis- 

 souri, the variation is from 20^ to 30^ mm.; the smallest being smaller 

 than the extreme of the Des Moines lot of 50 shells, while about 

 70 per cent, of the shells are larger than the largest from Des 

 Moines. 



Of course no normal curve can be plotted from so small a series as 

 18 specimens; but in view of similar variation in other smaller lots, 

 the general features of the curve are indicative of the wide range of 

 individual variation. The specimens in the present collection from 

 Missouri and Arkansas are as follows. There are not enough from any 

 one place to make their variations of much significance, but I give the 

 data for what they are worth : 



De Soto, Jefferson county, ^lo. A single thin, small specimen of 

 typical alleni, diam. 23 mm. 



Sehgman, Barry county, southwestern Missouri. See notes above. 

 Many of the specimens are large, 28 to 30^ mm. diam. 



Chester, Crawford county. Ark. Three specimens measuring 30, 

 26 and 23 mm. diam. The smaller ones thin, like maritima, the larger 

 one strong. 



Hardy, Sharp countj'. northeastern Arkansas. Four specimens, 

 measuring 21, 22, 24 and 26 mm. diam. 



Hot Springs, Garland county, Ark. A single specimen, diam. 29^ 

 mm., less depressed than usual. 



Rich Mountain, Polk count}^. Ark. Rather heavy, large specimens, 

 diam. 30 mm or more. 



Carrion Crow Mountain, Pope county. Ark. Diam. 24 to 27^ mm.; 

 rather light, with the usual narrow peristome. 



Tushkahoma, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Four large specimens only, 

 measuring 28J, 28^, 29^, 31^ mm. diam. The spire is a little higher 

 than usual, and there are nearly o^ whorls. The peristome is typical 

 of alleni. 



Standley, Choctaw Xation. A single shell similar to the above, 

 diam. 31 mm. 



In Kansas P. alleni occurs in Shawnee county, and at Quenemo, 

 Osage county. The specimens resemble those from Iowa. None haA'e 

 been seen from southwestern Arkansas or Texas. 



East of the Mississippi, specimens of typical allctu, resembling those 

 of Missouri, are in the collection of the Academy from near Decherd, 

 Franklin county, in middle Tennessee, near the Alabama boundary, 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



received from Mr. A. G. Wetherby, and from Chattanooga, collected 

 by Mr. S. N. Rhoads. At the latter place it coexists with a heavy 

 form of albolahris, though the two do not occur together. 



Polygyra albolabris fuscolabris nov. 



Finally, near Woodville, Jacks)n county, in northern Alabama, a 

 form was collected several years ago, by Mr. H. E. Sargent, which 

 seems to be the culmination of the alleni type, with some special 

 features which make it advisable to treat it as a local varietj^ under the 

 new name P. albolahris fuscolabris. The shell is very large, alt. 19, 

 diam. 34 mm., to alt. 21, diam 38 mm,; depressed, glossy and finely 

 striate, as in alleni with the aperture more oblique and the lip nar- 

 rower than in albolahris of the same size. The basal lip bears a low, 

 flat-topped, Avide tooth near the columella, and the outer lip is tinted 

 fleshy-brown (fading in cabinet specimens). Whorls 5^. 



This particular form is yet known from I\Ir. Sargent's collections 

 only. A large, heavy form of P. alholahris, probably referable to var. 

 major, also occurs near Woodville. P. a. fuscolabris bears such a rela- 

 tion to alleni as major to alholahris. or var. normalis to typical P. 

 andrewsce. 



Polygyra zaleta Binn. [exolela Biun.)- 



Seligman, Barry county, I\Io. Small specimens, 20-22 mm. diam. 

 It is in the collection of the Academy from two other localities in 

 Arkansas : Eureka Springs (F. A. Sampson) and Mabelvale (C. W. 

 Johnson) . 



Polygyra indianorum (Pilsbry\ 



P. divesta indianorum Pils., Nautilus, XIII, p. 39 (August, 1S99). Ferriss. 

 Nautilus, XIV, p. 28 (July, 1900). 



Tushkahoma, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Five specimens 25^ to 28 mm. 

 diam.; also Standley,* I. T. Further experience with this form con- 

 vinces me that it is quite distinct from P. divesta, a course prompted 

 by Mr. Ferriss. As he has collected and examined more specimens 

 than any one else, I am the more disposed to depend upon his judg- 

 ment . 

 Polygyra divesta (Gld.). 



Pilsbry, Nautilus, XIII, p. 38 (1899). 



Chadwick, Christian county, and Seligman, Barry county. Mo. 

 In Arkansas at Chester, Crawford county; Petit Jean, Yell county; 

 Hot Springs, Garland county; Carrion Ci'ow Mountain, Pope county. 

 There is but little variation in the specimens from Arkansas, all of 

 which are typical. At Seligman, in southwestern Missouri, the size 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



varies, the average l^eing smaller than Arkansas shells. The smallest 

 specimens measure 15 mm. diam.. whorls 4^; the largest 18 mm. with 

 4J whorls. At Chadwick, Mo., the smallest specimens I have seen 

 were taken. A-arying from 14^ to 17^ mm. diam. 



Polygyra biuneyana Pils- 



Pilsbrv, Nautilus, XIII, p. 38 (August, 1899'i; Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1900 

 p. 451; Ferriss, Xautilus, XIV, p. 28 (July, 1900V 



Poteau.* Choctaw Nation, I. T.; Rich l\Io\mtain,'^= Polk county, 

 Ark. 



Polygyra appressa perigrapta Pils. 



Chester, Crawford county, and Petit Jean, Yell county, A]-k. Speci- 

 mens typical but rather small, diam. 18-19^ nun. A specimen was 

 also sent from Gulfport, ^^liss. 

 Polygyra thyroides (Say). 



Cf. Proo. A. X. S. Phila., 1900, p. 4.52. 



Seligman, Barry county, i\Io. Small specimens of the globose 

 buccuh'uta form; diam. 15^ to 18 mm; umbilicus generally nearly 

 covered, as in P. clausa, but sometimes entirely closed. The speci- 

 mens have a decided resemblance to P. clausa. Two out of eight 

 adults have a small parietal tooth. 



Antlers, Choctaw Nation, I. T. ; Poteau, in the same district, near 

 the Arkansas boundary. Small specimens, diam. 18 mm. Carrion 

 Crow Mountain, Pope county, also small. 



At Hardy, Sharp county, in northeastern Arkansas, two specimens 

 of a small form of thyroides were taken, measuring IT-i- and 18 mm. 

 diam., and closely resembling P. clausa, from which they differ, how- 

 ever, in the more "dished" lip, less elevated contour, and slight angu- 

 lation of the front of the last whorl. One of these specimens is almost 

 imperforate. 

 Polygyra clausa (Say). 



Springfield, Green county. Mo. The specimens are quite typical. 

 This is. so far as I know, the southwestern extreme of the known 

 distribution of the species. Two specimens were taken at Hardy, 

 in northeastern Arkansas. In Missouri and Arkansas P. clausa is 

 sometimes very difficult to distinguish from the small form of P. 

 thyroides, which occurs in that region. This is the more remarkable 

 because the two species in other parts of the country are quite readily 

 distinguishable by the shells. 

 Polygyra pilsbryi Ferriss. PI. IX, (iis. l, 2, :;. 



Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, p. 29 (July, 1900). 



Jlicli Mountain Station. Polk count v, Ark., is thus far the onlv local- 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.. 



ity for this species, which in its cuticular processes is the most aberrant 

 of the genns. The original specimens were denuded of the long fila- 

 ments characteristic of the species in a fresh condition, and hence the 

 published description did not mention them. These filaments are 

 long, more or less curved, flexible, and arise in triangular laminse 

 from the narrow riblets of the surface. They stand in three principal 

 rows on the body-whorl, one at the periphery, the others above and 

 below it, the upper one ascending the spire midway between sutures. 

 The inner 2^ or 3 whorls are free from filaments. The base is encircled 

 Ijy two minor and imperfect rows inside the subperipheral one. 



In all other Stenotremes except P. harhigera (Redf.) the cuticular 

 hairs form a comparatively close pile, and they are arranged in oblique 

 sweeps, or are merely adnate and prostrate appendages trending in 

 the direction of growth-striae. In no other do they form a series of 

 circular, concentric fringes. P. harhigera has a single fringe of similar 

 filaments, usually persisting at the suture only. 

 Polygyra labrosa (Bland). PI. IX, figs, i, 5. •;. 



Helix labrosa Bid., Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist, of N. Y., VIT, ^30 (1S61). 

 Stenotrema labrosum (Bid.), Binnej-, Man. Amer. Land Shells, 274. 



Petit Jean Mountain, Yell county, western Arkansas; Seligman, 

 Barry county, southwestern Missouri. Also Chester,* Hot Springs,* 

 Carrion Crow Mountain, Ark.* 



Figured for comparison with the other Southwestern Stenotremes, 

 the figures published hitherto being in outline and cjuite inadequate for 

 exact comparisons. The Tennessee specimens I have seen are more 

 distinctly striate beneath and much paler than those from Arkansas, 

 the aperture white. From the data now available it looks as though 

 the range of P. labrosa is discontinuous, being interrupted by a wide 

 strip of low country along the ^lississippi; but its distribution in 

 Tennessee and Alabama calls for further investigation, as no definite 

 locality in either State is given, either in the books of Mr. Binney or 

 on the labels of specimens from Bland in the Academy collection. 

 Sampson has reported P. lahrosa from eleven counties in middle and 

 western Arkansas. 



Polygyra uncifera Pilsbry. PI. IX, figs. 7, 8, 9. 10. 



P. hlrsuta uncifera Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 453 (September 27, 

 1900); Ferriss, Nautilus, NIV, p. 30, No. 139c (1900). 



Polk count}^ western Arkansas, at Mena and the adjacent Chastat 

 Mountains, and Rich Mountain. 



The peculiar structure of the peristome of this form certainly indi- 

 cates a distinct species, and not, as I at first thought, a subspecies of 




1(903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



P. hirsuta. Sometimes the parietal lamella is recurved at the outer 

 end, hook-like, as in the type (fig. 7), but in most of the specimens 

 from Rich Mountain the recurved part is quite separate from the 

 lamella, standing apart as a short entering denticle (figs. 8, 9, 10). I 

 have observed no other variation of note except in the size and number 

 of whorls, the Rich Mountain series measuring from 6.5 mm. diara. 

 with 4f whorls to 8.2 mm. with 5 J whorls. The "fulcrum" is quite 

 long, as in typical hirsuta, and notched above and below. 



Pohjgyra hirsuta has not been reported from Arkansas, so far as I 

 know, and evidence is still wanting that it occurs west of the Missis- 

 sippi south of Kansas and Pettis county. Mo., whence it is recorded by 

 Sampson. I regard the specimens reported by Dr. Stearns from the 

 "banks of Yaqui river near Guaymas"^ as probably Eastern shells 

 accidentally mixed with those from the locality named. The south- 

 western range of P. hirsuta is apparently much more limited than that 

 of many of the Eastern snails. 

 Polygyra blandiana n. sp. PI. IX, figs, il, 12, 13. 



Shell imperforate, depressed, obtusely angular at the periphery, the 

 spire slightly convex, base much more convex, owing to the high 

 position of the peripheral angle. Chestnut-brown; the surface rather 

 glossy and partialh^ dull; nearly smooth, having weak growth-wrinkles 

 above, fainter on the base; without hairs or their scars. Whorls 4f, 

 moderately convex, the last shortly deflexed in front. Aperture re- 

 sembling, in general, that of P. hirsuta, but narrower; the outer end 

 of the parietal lamina is abruptly bent inward, and its crest a little 

 notched. The notch in the basal lip, which seems shallow in a basal 

 view, is seen in front or obliciue view to be deep, with a raised border. 

 The outer curve of the lip is rather deeply notched. Fulcrum long, 

 at a right angle with the aperture. 



Alt. 4, diam. 8 mm. 



Alt. 3.8, diam. 7 mm. 



Springfield, Green county, southwestern ^Missouri, copiously; Selig- 

 man,* Barry county. Mo., 3 specimens. 



This very distinct race differs from P. hirsuta in the following par- 

 ticulars: The shell is much more depressed and obtusely angular at 

 the periphery; it shows no trace of hairs; the parietal lamella is more 

 curved and stands nearer the basal lip, thereby causing the aperture 

 to be narrower; the notch in the basal lip is larger, etc. 



In a rather large series of shells, no specimens at all intermediate 

 in characters were found. 



^Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVII, 162 (1894). 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Polygyra monodon imperforata Pils. 



Proc. Acad. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 455. 



Rich Mountain, Polk county. Ark. The ordinary, widely distributed 

 P. m. fraterna occurs in southwestern Missouri. 

 Polygyra monodon aliciae (Pils.^. 



Drift debris of the Arkansas river, at Petit Jean Mountain, Yell 

 county, Ark.; Hot Springs, Ark.; DeKalb,* Ark., and Antlers,* I. T. 



BULIMCTLID^. 

 Bulimulus dealbatus (Say). 



Seligman, Barr}^ county. ^lo. Two gray-mottled specimens collected 

 have the spire much longer than in ordinary dealbatus, and the whorls, 

 except the last two, are more strongly striate. The form approaches 

 var. ragsdalei to some extent. 



PUPID^. 

 Bifidaria armifera (Say). 



Seligman, Barry county, ^lo. 



Bifidaria contracta (Say1. 



Sehgman, Barry county. Mo.; Rich Mountain, Polk county. Ark. 

 The season was not a propitious one for collecting minute snails, hence 

 their scarcity in this collection. 



AOHATINID^. 

 Cochlicopa lubrica (Miill.). 



Seligman, Barry county, Mo. 



OIRCINARIID^. 

 Circinaria concava (Say). 

 Petit Jean,* Yell county, Ark. 



ZONITIDJE. 

 Vitrea hammonis (Strom). 



Rich ^lountain, Ark. ; Seligman, Mo. 



Vitrea indentata (Say). 



Poteau, Tushkahoma and Antlers, I. T.; Rich Mountain, Ark.; 

 Carrion Crow Mountain, Pope county. Ark. ; Seligman, Mo. 



Section PARAVITREA Pils. 



Paravitrea Pils , Nautilus, XI, p. 130 iMarch, 1S98). 

 . Taxeodonta Pils., Nautilus, XI, p. 132 (March, 1898). 



Shell depressed or discoidal, perforate or narrowly umbilicate, com- 

 posed of numerous closely coiled lohorlS; usually grooved radially above; 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



thin and fragile ; internally having obliquely radial laminae, or rows or 

 pairs of teeth, at intervals of a third of a whorl, some or all of them 

 often wanting, especially in old individuals. 



Genital system without dart sac. Radula with teeth of the central 

 row tricuspid; two or three laterals on each side also tricuspid, the 

 entocone raised high upon the mesocone, of which it forms a lateral 

 spur. Marginal teeth of the usual simple and thorn-like form. 



Snails of this group have the discoidal shape and closely coiled who7-ls 

 of the typical (European) section of Vitrea, and they have also a den- 

 tition of the same type, which is remarkable for the peculiar mode of 

 specialization of the lateral teeth. Paravitrea differs from typical 

 Vitrea in the umbilicate axis and the development of teeth. The 

 compact coiling of the numerous wiiorls sufficiently distinguishes 

 Paravitrea from the Hyalina type of Vitrea, such as V . hammonis, etc. 



The species of Gastrodonta protected by teeth, have only a single pair 

 near the aperture, constantly added to in front and absorbed behind 

 with growth of the shell; but in Paravitrea successive sets are formed to 

 be absorbed later. 



The adult or old individuals of species of Paravitrea usually absorb 

 all the teeth, and form no new ones in the latest stages; or in some 

 cases, as in V. capsella, teeth may be formed in occasional or rare 

 very young individuals, while in the intermediate and later stages of 

 growth none are developed. In a few other species, such as V. clappi, 

 V. simpsoni and V. placentula, no teeth have yet been observed even 

 in the young. If my interpretation of the facts is correct, such species 

 as V. andrewsoi and multidcntata, which commonly possess teeth in 

 adults, are old, relatively unchanged types; while forms toothless at 

 all stages are the most evolved. Paravitrea thus consists of species 

 and races in various stages of reduction and loss of teeth, but descendants 

 from an ancestral stock which had them. 



Another modification of the ancestral radially toothed Paravitrea 

 is seen in certain species in which even-edged or serrate radial ribs or 

 lamellae replace the rows of teeth. The irregular or serrate edge of 

 this lamella in some individuals indicates that it has been formed by 

 coalescence of a row of teeth, the intervals between them becoming 

 filled up, exactly as in the Clausiliidce of eastern Asia the lunella has 

 been formed by coalescence of a primitive row of palatal plicae." In 

 this phylum, too, the armature has been lost in some species and in 

 some individuals of species normally toothed; and by acceleration, ex- 



* See these Proceedings for 1901, LIII, p. 638. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ceedingly i-are individuals of species which normally have rows of 

 independent teeth acquire the radial barriers of forms more advanced 

 in the scale of evolution. This is exemplified by V. multidentata, dis- 

 cussed in a previous paper/ and V. andrewsoe, mentioned below. 



All this merely goes to show that Paravitrea is in a condition of rapid 

 Teadaptation. Mutation takes place chiefly in two definite directions : 

 (1) Toward progressively earlier loss of internal armature, which cul- 

 minates in toothless species, and (2) the formation of transverse harriers 

 by coalescence of the teeth. 



Under these circumstances, the path of the systematist is an excep- 

 tionally thorny one, although to the evolutionist the group is full of 

 interesting suggestions. No rigorous definitions ai'e in order; and the 

 distinction between '^ species" and ''subspecies" — always more or 

 less indefinite — ^becomes largely a subjective one when large series 

 of specimens are studied. Only a series of individuals representing the 

 whole life cycle, from youth to old age, can give one an adequate idea 

 of the characteristics of the special form from any given locality. 



Through the kindness of Mr. Ferriss and others, I have been able to 

 study large series of most of the species, in addition to the collection of 

 the Academy. 



Aside from Mr. Binney's volumes, which contain merely descriptions 

 of part of the species discussed below, the strongest paper dealing with 

 them is Dr. V. Sterki's N^otes on Zonitidoe? The fact that Zonites 

 andrewsi and the Eastern form commonly known as significans have 

 few teeth or none when adult is set forth, and the author shrewdly 

 suggests that these two forms may be the young of Z. placentulus and 

 capsella respectively. Dr. Sterki worked from small series of specimens 

 from a few localities, and with much more ample material it is easy 

 now to criticise his solution of the difficult problem; but he saw fur- 

 ther into the relationships of these forms than any writer up to that 

 time. My former course in separating the species into two sections, 

 one of which (Taxeodonta) was placed under Gastrodonta, was a step 

 backward. No such arrangement would have been entertained had I 

 examined the dentition. In Gastrodonta the lateral teeth are more 

 numerous than in Vitrea or Paravitrea, and conspicuously different in 

 shape. 



' These Proceedings for 1900, p. 145. 



*■ Nautilus, VII, pp. 13-17, June, 1893. It may be as well to note here that 

 the Gastrodonta described by him under No. 3 (p. 14) is what I described as 

 G. collisella. His No. 6 (p. 15) is apparently G. coelaxis. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Key to average or normal specimens of Paravitrea. 



I. — Surface closel}^ and regularly rib-striate or grooved, at least above; 

 umbilicus minute. 

 a. — Diam. 5-6.5 mm. ; spire fiat or slightly convex, the suture deep ; 

 6^ convex, narrow whorls, subregularly and deeply grooved 

 radially, above and below. Umbilicus minute. No in- 

 ternal teeth, V. clappi. 



a'. — Diam. 2.5 to 3.5 mm.; very closely rib-striate above; 

 whorls 5^-6, closely coiled, the spire but slightly convex. 

 h. — One to three radial ro^^s of 5 or 6 teeth each, visible through 



the base, V. multidentata. 



h' . — One to three radial curved barriers, visible through the 

 base; surface not striated spirally; width of umbilicus 

 about one-tenth that of the shell, . . T^. lamellidens. 

 h" . — With barriers like the preceding species, or none; surface 

 finely striate, the stria? decussated by very minute 

 spirals; umbilicus wider, its diameter contained about 

 5^ times in that of the shell, V. walkeri. 



II. — -Surface sculptured with spaced, unequal radial grooves, more 

 conspicuous above. 

 a. — Diam. of adults 5 to 6 mm. ; toothless or with teeth in pairs. 

 h. — Periphery median; aperture usually crescentic. Eastern 

 forms. 



c. — Shell toothless, V. capsella. 



c'. — Shell with internal pairs of teeth, . V. c. lacteodens. 

 h' . — Western forms (Missouri, Arkansas, Indian Territory), 

 with the aperture subtriangular. 

 c. — Young usually toothed; adults dome-shaped, with 



subbasal periphery, V. significans. 



c' . — Not toothed ; adults discoidal, . . . V.simpsoni. 

 a'. — Diam. of adults 7 to 7h mm.; toothless or with 1 to 5 teeth in 

 each row. 

 h. — No teeth at any stage of growth; ivhorls 7 to 7h, 



V. place ntula. 



h' . — -Teeth developed in young shells, persisting or absent in 



adults; shell very fragile; luhorls 8 to 8^, V. andrewsce. 



Vitrea clappi (Pils.). PI. X, tigs, l, lu, 16, 8, 8a. 



Gasirodonta clappi Pils., Nautilus, XII, p. 86 (December, 1898); XV, p. 37, 

 PI. 2, figs. 8, 9 (August, 1901); Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 144. 

 Ferriss, Nautilus, XII, p. 99; XV, p. 58. 



Range : Great Smoky Mountains, along the Tennessee-North Caro- 

 lina boundary range from Thunderhead and Blockhouse Mountains to 

 the Big Pigeon river. 



The type locality is Miry Ridge. The type (PI. X, figs. 1, la, lb), 

 with a diameter of 5.5 mm., has a minute umbilicus, about .2 mm. wide, 

 and the spire of 7 whorls is convex. In all other specimens seen the 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



spire is lower, either flat or but slightly convex; and with one excep- 

 tion, all have the same minute umbilicus. In one specimen, from 

 Clingman Dome, No. 2,490 of the collection of Mr. George H. Clapp 

 (PI. X, figs. 8, 8a), the umbiUcus is decidedh' larger. .6 mm. wide, the 

 shell having a diameter of 6.2 mm., T\ath 6+ whorls. Whether this is 

 an individual variation or the representative of a race of more widely 

 umbilicate shells, remains to be determined. 



In 1900 Mr. Ferriss traced this beautiful and excessively rare species 

 far to the northeast of the original locality, taking specimens at Mt. 

 LeConte, and at Indian Gap and Newfound Gap on the Big Pigeon 

 river. 

 Vitrea lamellidens (Pils. i. PI. X, figs. 2, 3, 3a, zh. 



Gastrodonta lamellidens Pils., Nautilus, XI. p. 134 (April. 1S9S); Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 145. Ferriss, Nautilus, XII, p. 99; XIV, 

 pp. 52, .58. Walker and Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 437. 



Range : Great Smoky Mountains, along the Tennessee-North Carolina 

 bomidary, from the Little Tennessee river to Thunderhead Mountain 

 (the type localit3'),^and eastward in Graham county, N. C. ; also in the 

 Black Mountain range at Bluff Mountain and Pinnacle of the Blue 

 Ridge. 



Similar to V. multidentata, but armed within with curved, obliquely 

 radial barriers instead of rows of teeth, and having a narrower umbili- 

 cus, its width contained about 10 times in that of the shell, while in 

 multidentata it is contained only about 6 times. 



In about 150 individuals collected in 1899 and previously, which I ex- 

 amined, all had from one to three lameUse; but a very large shell, diam. 

 3.8 mm., found by Mr. Ferriss on Thunderhead in 1900, has no lamellae 

 whatever — a feature of senihty. Even in the youngest individuals I 

 have seen, such as PI. X, fig. 2, diam. 1.4 mm., there are two or three 

 barriers, though one would expect rows of teeth in so early a stage. 

 Not one V. multidentata has yet been found vdi\i lamellidens, which 

 lives mainly in the moist heights, where the mountains lift their heads 

 into the clouds. We did not find it in the "coves" below. 

 Vitrea multidentata (Binney). PI. X, figs. 6, 6a. 



W. G. Binney, Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 183 (1885). 



The southernmost locality is Talassee Ford of the Little Tennessee 

 river, whence Mr. Ferriss reports it.^ 



Figured for comparison vA\\i the preceding and following species. 

 With ordinary specimens of multidentata there sometimes occur shells 

 in which radial barriers similar to those of V. lamellidens replace the 



» Nautilus, XIV, 58. 




1903.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



teeth of the normal form. Such specimens are known from West 

 Granby, Hartford comity, Conn.; Garrettsville, O. (PI. X, fig. 7); 

 Greenwich, N. Y. (Acad. Coll.); Deering, N. H.; Litchfield, N. Y. 

 (Coll. G. H. Clapp) ; Ottawa, Can. (Coll. Bryant Walker) .^o and Ithaca, 

 N. Y. (Coll. H. E. Sargent). In the adult specimens I have seen, like 

 that figured (diam. 3 mm.), the umbilicus is about as wide as in multi- 

 dentata. In those examined by Mr. Clapp it is narrower, as in lamelli- 

 dens; but his shells are not full grown, measuring only 2 to 2.5 mm. 

 in diameter. From the occurrence of this form as rare single speci- 

 mens, always with typical midtidentata, I am still disposed to look 

 on the specimens as accelerated individuals, sporadically occurring — 

 the pioneers of a new race, further advanced in evolution than multi- 

 dentata. If my view is correct, this race of the future will be parallel 

 to lamellidens , which has in the past undergone a like transformation. 

 A view apparently much simpler is held by Mr. Clapp, who regards 

 the Northern specimens wdth continuous barriers as really V. lamelli- 

 dens, which in this view has an extensive range north to Canada. 



Vitrea walkeri (Pilsbry). PI. X, figs. 4, 4a, 5. 



Gastrodonta xcalkeri Pils., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 146. Ferriss, 

 Xautilis, XIV. pp. 52, 58. 



Range : Great Smoky Movmtains, in Graham count}^, N. C, and Mon- 

 roe county, Tenn. 



This form is about the size of V. multidentata , ordinarilj^ measuring 

 about 2.9 mm., with 5^ to 5f whorls, and an umbilicus contained 

 about 5^ times in the diameter of the shell, much as in multidentata. 

 It is either toothless or has radial barriers of the lamellidens type, 

 but the wider umbilicus and minutely decussate surface readil}^ sep- 

 arate the species from lamellidens. 



No specimens have turned up since our expedition of 1899, and it 

 remains one of the rarest of land snails. Figs. 4, 4a represent a shell 

 from Tuskeegee ^lountain; fig. 5 a specimen from Talassee Ford of 

 the Little Tennessee river. 



Vitrea andrewsae (W. G. Binney). PI. XI, figs. 9. 9a, 10, 11, llo, 116. 



Zonites andrexcsi W. G. B., Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., I, p. 359, PI. 15, fig. D 

 (1879); [First] Supplement to Terr. Moll., V, p. 144, PI. 2. fig. D (reprint 

 from Ann. N. Y. Acad.); Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 228, fig. 251. Sterki, 

 Nautilus, YII, p. 16 (1893). 



Gastrodonta andrewsas W. G. B., Walker and Pilsbrv, Moll, of Mt. Mitchell 

 Region, N. C, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 437. 



Range: Roan ^Mountain (type locality) to Paint Rock on the French 

 Broad river, and eastward to the Black Mountains, N. C. 



'^*' Ottawa Xaturalist, XIY, p. 94, 1900. A single specimen of "lamellidens" 

 with multidentata, collected by Gilbert Heron, is recorded by Mr. Walker. 

 14 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Shell similar to T'. placentula in general form and size, but the 

 whorls increase more slowly, the last being narro\\'er; thin and fragile, 

 often sprinkled \nth buff dots. Teeth generally present, 3 to 5 being 

 arranged in a radial row, or with several such rows within the basal 

 wall, though the number of teeth may vary down to in the adult 

 stage, or less frequently at any stage of growth. Whorls 8 to 8^ in 

 adults, which measure 7 to 8 mm. diam. 



In some localities, as around Roan Mountain, teeth are almost invari- 

 ably develoi^ed. In some other localities they are rare in adult shells, 

 and developed in the yoimg ones only. Such toothless individuals 

 are separable from T". placentula by their slightly more fragile structure 

 and greater number of narrower whorls. 



In a multitude of shells examined from over a dozen localities, I 

 found one young specimen with a diameter of 4 mm. in which there 

 was a single radial barrier, such as occurs in T'. lamdlidens Pils." The 

 figures are from topotypes. 



Vitrea placentula (Shuttle worth). PI. XI, fgs. 1, la, 16. 



Zon. placentulus Shuttl., Sterki, Nautilus, VII, p. 17 (1893). 

 Vitrea capsella -placentula Shuttl., Pils.. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, 

 p. 140. 



This species, if such it be, differs from V. capsella merely in the larger 

 size, and in having an additional whorl. Adult shells measure 7 mm. 

 diam. , and have 7 or 7^ whorls. I have never seen a specimen with teeth, 

 although a good many shells, adult and young, from the Great Smoky 

 Mountains and elsewhere have passed under my lens; but when very 

 young individuals of placentula are found, I think they will prove to 

 have pairs of teeth, at least in rare cases, as in capsella. It is a trifle 

 more solid than V. andrewsce (W. G. B.), and in specimens of the same 

 size the latter has a whorl more. The range of V. placentula lies to 

 the southwest of that of V. andrewsce. It was not taken by Ferriss 

 and Walker in the valley of the French Broad river, nor in the Black 

 mountains. Sterki's suggestion that andrewsce is the young of placen- 

 tulus is not borne out by the facts now known. Over a large part of 

 the range of placentula, V. andrewsce does not occur. 



The figured specimen is from Philadelphia, Loudon county, Tenn. 

 Vitrea capsella (Gld.). PI. XI, figs. 2, 3, 4, 4a, 46. 



Zonites capsella Gld., W. G. Binney, Man. Ainer. Land Shells, p. 221. 



The type locality of this species is "Tennessee." Two specimens 



" This specimen is No. 16,963 of Mr. Bryant Walker's collection, taken by him 

 at Paint Rock, N. C, on the south side of the French Broad river, near the Ten- 

 nessee boundary. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



SO labelled, presumably from the original lot, are in the collection of 

 the Academy, given by Gould. 



The species differs from T^. significans chiefly in the different contour 

 of the adult shell; from T'. placentula in the smaller size of the adults. 

 The shell measures from 5 to nearly 6 mm, in diam., and has 6 to 7 

 whorls. Rarely, a young individual may be found with a pair or two of 

 internal teeth (PI. XI, fig. 3. diam. 2 mm.), recalling the ancestral den- 

 tate stock; but this stage is now passed through at an early age, or 

 entirely skipped; and in the series I have examined, from southwestern 

 Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama, toothed individuals are 

 very unusual, 



V. capsella is not known from west of the ^lississippi depression, 

 being represented there by the very closely related T*. significans and 

 V. simpsoni. The figures represent specimens from \Yoodville, Ala., 

 collected by Mr. H. E. Sargent. 



Vitrea placentula and significans might, with no great violence, be 

 subordinated to capsella as subspecies. 



Vitrea capsella lacteodens n. v. PI. XI, figs. 5, 5a. 



Hyalina significans Bid., Harper, Journ. Cincinnati Society of Natural 



History, IV, 1881, p. 258, figs. 2, 2a. 

 Zonites significans Bid., Wetherbv, Journ. Cin. See. N. H., IV, December, 



1881, p. 328, No. 25. "\V. G. Binney, Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 228, 



fig. 250 (exclusive of quotation from Bland, etc.). Sterki, Nautilus, 



VII, pp. 16, 17 (1893). 

 Gastrodonta significans Bid., Pilsbrv, Moll, of the Great Smoky Mts., Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 147. 

 Vitrea capsella, specimens from Tuskeegee Mountain, Graham county, 



N. C, Pilsbry, t. c, p. 140. 



Type specimens from "Ramp Cove," Tuskeegee Mountain, N, C, 

 taken by James H. Ferriss and H. E. Sargent, 1899. 



The shell is similar to V. capsella, except that most specimens have 

 one to three pairs of tubercular teeth within the last whorl. The 

 sutures are a trifle less impressed, and the striation perceptibly closer. 

 It differs from V. significans in the usual persistence of the teeth in 

 the adult stage, and the median position of the periphery. In fully 

 adult significans the periphery is subbasal, and there are no teeth. 



Alt. 2.6, diam. 5 mm,; whorls 6+. 



This particular race occurs, so far as I know, only in the mountains 

 of southwestern North Carolina. It is not separable from V. capsella 

 by any hard-and-fast character, but merely by the persistence of the 

 pairs of teeth in most adult shells of any given lot. Thus in the type 

 lot, collected by Mr. Sargent on Tuskeegee Mountain, Graham county, 

 N. C, one adult out of thirteen before me is quite toothless, and by 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



itself would be called capsella. Some others have only one or two 

 teeth remaining. It is the general character of the specimens from 

 any one place, not the particular condition of each indi\ddual, that 

 must be considered. 



Harper, Wetherby, W. G. Binney and Sterki have irdstaken this 

 race for the Western V. significans, and I formerly followed this 

 erroneous identification. 

 Vitrea significans (Bid.). PI- XI, figs, 7, 7a, 76, S, 8a. 



Helix significans Bid., Amer. Joum. of Conch., II, p. 372, PI. 21, fig. 9 (not 

 good). 



Zonites significans Bid., Binney, op. flur., exclusive of East Tennessee form. 



Range: Originally described from Fort Gibson, Indian Territory, 

 this species has been taken to my knowledge in Arkansas, at Mabelvale 

 (C. W. Johnson^^), and in southwestern Missouri, at Sehgman, Barry 

 county (Ferriss, 1901). 



As Bland stated in his original description, the young shells are 

 sometimes provided with one or two pairs of tubercular teeth within, 

 visible through the base of the shell as white spots. The full-grown 

 shells are toothless, more or less dome-shaped, the periphery being 

 situated below the middle of the last whorl, the circumference of 

 which is flattened and sloping. The base is very concave in the 

 middle. This gives the shell a peculiar and unusual contour. Half- 

 grown and young individuals are normal in shape, and very similar to 

 V. capsella and its variety ladeodens, from which, indeed, it would be 

 almost impossible to separate them except by the locality. The spire, 

 seen from above, is about the same in capsella, placentula and signifi- 

 cans. Figs. 7, 7a, 76 represent fully adult specimens of the typical 

 form from Sehgman, Barry county. Mo., collected by Mr. Ferriss; 

 figs. 8, 8a are immature shells from the same place and lot. 



Vitrea simpsoni (Pilsbry). PI. XI, figs. 6, 6a, 66. 



Zonites capsella Gld., Simpson, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. for 1888, p. 452. 

 Zonites simpsoni PUs., These Proceedings for 1889, p. 412, PI. 12, figs. 8-10. 

 Vitrea simpsoni PLls., These Proceedings for 1900, p. 456; Ferriss, Nautilus, 

 XIV, pp. 30, 31. 



Range : Western Arkansas and Indian Territory ; Mena and Hatton's 

 Gap, Polk county, in western, Morris Ferry, Little River county, 

 southwestern Arkansas (J. H. Ferriss); Limestone Gap, I. T. (C. T. 

 Simpson). 



This species is more depressed than significans or capsella, with the 

 last whorl decidedly wider, when viewed from above. It has not yet 



^* Reported in the Catalogue of Land Shells, 1898, p. 26, under V. simpsoni, 

 No. 275. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



been found with teeth, but so far only small numbers have been taken. 

 The type is figured. 



Zonitoides minusculus (Binn.). 



Seligman, Barry county, Mo, 



Zonitoides arboreus (Say). 



Poteau, Tushkahoma, and Antlers, I. T.; Seligman, Mo. 

 Gastrodonta demissa (Biuney). 



Carrion Crow Mountain, Pope county, Ark. Twenty-one specimens, 

 most of them narrowly perforate, with a very heavy internal callus; 

 four have a low^ lamella, and one is imperforate. They therefore unite 

 characters of the varieties lamellata and hrittsi, like those from other 

 places in their same general region. Cf. these Proceedings for 1900, 

 p. 456. 



At Hot Springs, Garland county, Ark., G. demissa hrittsi was taken, 

 a few of the specimens having an internal lamina. 



Various forms of demissa were taken at Poteau* and Tushkahoma,* 

 I. T., and Rich Mountain,* Ark., reported by Mr. Ferriss. 



ENDODONTID^. 

 Pyramidula solitaria (Say). 



Reported from Rich Mountain, Polk county. Ark., by Mr. Ferriss. 

 Pyramidula alternata (Say). 



T3rpical specimens at Petit Jean, Yell county. Ark,, and Seligman, 

 Mo., and Standley, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Also reported by Ferriss 

 from Rich ^lountain and Hot Springs, Ark. 



Pyramidula perspectiva (Say). 



Reported by Ferriss from Seligman, Mo.; Petit Jean and Rich 

 Mountain, Ark. 



Helicodiscus lineatus (Say). 

 Seligman, Barry county. Mo. 



SUCCINEID^. 

 Succinea avara Say. 



Seligman, Mo.; Rich Mountain, Ark. 



LIMN^ID^. 



Limnaea columella Say. 

 Winding Stair Mountain, I. T. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



EXPLAXATIOX OF PlaTES IX, X, XI. 



Plate IX, Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Polygyra pilsbryi Ferriss. Topotype. 



Figs. 4, 5, 6. — Polygyra hlandiana PiJs. {Helix labrosa Bland, not Wood). 



Type. Petit Jean Mountains, Yell count}^. Ark. 

 Fig, 7. — Polygyra uncifera Pils. Cotype. Mena, Polk countj', Ark. 

 Figs. 8, 9, 10. — Polygyra uncifera Pils. Piich Mountain, Polk county, 



Ark. 

 Figs. 11, 12, 13. — Polygyra hlandiana Pils. Cotype. Springfield, Green 



county. Mo. 



Plate X, Figs. 1, la, \h. — Vitrea dappi Pils. Three views of the tj-pe. Miry 



Ridge, Great Smoky Mountains. 

 Fig. 2. — Vitrea lamellidens Pils. Young individual from Thunderhead, 



diam. 1.4 mm. No. 77,752 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 3, 3a, 3&. — V. lamellidens. Thunderhead. Diam. 3.5 mm. No, 



77,752 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 4, 4a. — V. walkeri Pils. Front and basal views of the type. 

 Fig. 5. — Vitrea walkeri Pils. Base of shell from Talassee Ford. No. 



77,703 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 6, 6a. — Vitrea muUidentata Binn. Basal and front \'iews of a typical 



specimen from West Granby, Hartford countv. Conn. No. 



57,104 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 7. — Vitrea muUidentata Binn. Base of a specimen with the teeth 



united into an even barrier. Garrettsville, O. No. 66,858 A. N. 



S. P. 

 Figs. 8, 8a. — Vitrea clappi Pils. Openly umbilicate specimen from Cling- 



man Dome. No. 2,490 CoU. G. H. Clapp. 



Plate XI, Figs. 1, la, lb. — Vitrea placentula Shuttl. Philadelphia, Loudon. 



county, Tenn. No. 5,490 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 2. — Vitrea capsella Gld. Half-grown shell, diam. 3 mm. Wood- 



ville, Ala. No. 68,820 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 3. — Vitrea capsella Gld. Young specimen with two pairs of internal 



teeth, diam. 2 mm. Woodville, Ala. No. 68,820. 

 Figs. 4, 4a, 46. — Vitrea capsella Gld, Adialt from Woodville, Ala., diam. 



4.5 mm. No. 68,820 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 5, 5a. — Vitrea capsella lacteodens Pils. Tuskeegee Mountain, 



Graham county, N. C, No. 77.798 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 6, 6a, 66. — Vitrea simpsoni Pils. T\T)e. Limestone Gap, I. T. 



No. 61,676 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 7, 7a, 76. — Vitrea significans Bid. A fully adult specimen from 



Seligman, southwestern Missouri. No. 81,446 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 8, 8a. — Vitrea significans Bid. Young shell with internal teeth, 



diam. 3.8 mm. Same locality. 

 Figs. 9, 9a. — Vitrea andrewsce W. G. B. Half-grown shell from Roan 



Mountain, N. C, diam. 4.5 mm. 

 Fig. 10. — Vitrea andrewsce W. G. B. Younger shell, diam. 3 mm. 

 Figs. 11, 11a, 116. — Vitrea andrewsce W. G. B. Adult, Roan Mountain, 



N. C. No. 67,577 A. N. S. P. This and figs. 9, 9a and 10 are from 



specimens of the original lot, collected by Mrs. George Andrews. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



A REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN ANTS OF THE GENUS 

 LEPTOTHORAX Mayr.i 



BY AVILLIAM MORTON WHEELER. 



The (liniiiiutive species of the cosmopolitan genus Leptothorax are 

 among the most interesting though least conspicuous of our ants. 

 No other group of Formicidae appears to present such diversity of 

 habits, while at the same time adhering so closely to certain rather 

 definite generic pecuharities. The species all form small colonies, 

 often of not more than twenty-five to fifty individuals, and occupy 

 small cavities in the soil, or between stones, or in the tissues of plants. 

 These cavities are either of their own excavation, or found ready to 

 their use in the form of accidental openings or the burrows and gal- 

 leries of larvae, other ants, etc. Favorite nesting-places are the 

 abandoned woody galls of the Cynipidse, like the galls of Holcaspis 

 cinerosus on the live-oaks of central Texas, the galls of Diptera, like 

 Trypeta solidaginis on the golden-rod, etc. Even hollow nuts on 

 the ground under the trees are sometimes tenanted by species of 

 Leptothorax. Brief notes on the nesting habits, so far as these are 

 known, are appended to the descriptions of the different species enum- 

 erated below. 



The small size and obscure location of the Leptothorax nests, which 

 form a remarkable contrast with the teeming, conspicuous formicaries 

 of other ants like Formica, ruja, F. exsectoides, Pogonomyrmex barhatus 

 and Ischnomyrmcx CockcreUi, will readily account for our rather 

 limited knowledge of the North American species. Then, too, none 

 of our Leptothorax are really common, except in certain circumscribed 

 localities, so that the discovery of the species is more often a matter of 

 accident than of deliberate search, even when one is out looking for 

 ants and nothing else. Single workers are found running about on 

 the ground or on the trunks and branches of trees in search of sweet 

 exudations, small insects or the remains of large insects that have 

 been rejected by spiders, birds, etc. The nests are most readily found 

 by following up such single workers, often a tedious and time-con- 

 suming task, as these insects will sometimes run about for an hour or 



' Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Texas, 

 No. 48. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



more in search of food before returning to the nest and reveaUng its 

 hidden entrance, a tiny hole hke a pin-prick in the soil or bark. 



None of the species are known to attend aphides, and the nests very 

 rarely or never contain guests or synoeketes of any description. The 

 Leptothorax themselves, however, sometimes live as guests in the 

 nests of larger ants. Thus L. Emersoni is always found as a guest in 

 the nests of Myrmica hrevinodis, and L. acervorum of Europe and its 

 American variety convivialis also exhibit a decided tendency toward 

 xenobiosis. The typical L. curvispinosus appears to act as the slave 

 of Tomognathus americanus, an extremely rare an.t, which is probably 

 similar in habits to its European congener, T. sublceins. Most of the 

 species of Leptothorax are very timid, and many of them readily 

 "feign death" when roughly handled. Nevertheless they are often 

 extremely hostile and vindictive toward other ants, especially toward 

 ants of their own species from strange nests. 



For our first insight into the habits of Leptothorax we are indebted 

 to Forel, who recorded his observations in the charming Fourmis de la 

 Suisse (pp. 339-341). The more important of these observations are 

 given in the following translation : 



"April 17, 1868, I found in the bark of a pine-tree a very small 

 colony of L. tuhero-affinis , consisting of a fertile female, about a dozen 

 workers and some eggs. I lost four of the workers during the capture 

 and broke two of the legs of the female. I subsequently placed this 

 little family in a pasteboard box with a glass cover. It prospered; 

 the female got on well with her four remaining legs ; some of the eggs 

 hatched and the larvae were fed. The workers would eat nothing but 

 the honey which I gave them ; they were very timid and settled down 

 with the female in the box. They gave little heed to the female, which 

 lived almost like them. I have noticed that it is only the workers of 

 the genera Plagiolepis and Lasius and of certain species of Formica that 

 assiduously court their fertile females. Leptothorax goes to the opposite 

 extT-eme : the females live almost like the workers, being merely some- 

 what less inclined to work. Huber was ^Tong, therefore, in general- 

 izing the role of the fertile females of Lasius, etc. By ]\Iay 24 the 

 female of my captive formicary had again laid some eggs, and the 

 larvae had grown very large. The workers ate larvae of Lasius that 

 were given to them. June 4 one of the larvae became a worker pupa, 

 but there remained only two large larvae and the eggs. June 10 there 

 were two pupae and eight or nine small larvae had hatched from the 

 eggs. Of the latter two were yellow and retained this color, the others 

 were whitish. By June 13 they had grown. I then gave my L. 




1903] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



iubero-affims a worker pupa of L. Nylanderi, and they took care of it. 

 These ants never attempted to escape when I opened the box. They 

 impressed me bj^ the deUcacy of the sense of touch in their antennae, 

 as they felt of httle particles ■\\-ith remarkable precision and distin- 

 guished their qualities (one of the eggs of their c^ueen, a o-rain of dust, 

 a particle of honey, etc.). June 21 I gave them some pupse of Tetra- 

 morum ccespitum which they killed and ate. On June 25 the pupa of 

 L. Nylanderi had hatched, and the resulting worker lived on good terms 

 with the tubero-affiyiis, working with them. June 28 I lost several 

 workers through carelessness; there remained only the queen with 

 five worker tubero-affinis and the worker Nylanderi; the small larvae 

 had grown considerably and began to pupate. June 29 one of the older 

 pupoe hatched and the other soon followed, so that two worker tubero- 

 affinis were added to the colony. The same day I gave my ants worker 

 pupse of T. cwspitum. They cared for two or three of the younger 

 ones and killed the others which were about to hatch, or rather allowed 

 them to die through neglect. July 15 three more small larvae made 

 their appearance. July 16 one of the two pupce of T. ccespitum, which 

 they had continued to foster, hatched and lived thenceforth with these 

 ants of a different genus, on the best of terms. July IS the second pupa 

 of T. ccespitum, followed suit, but this worker was somewhat malformed 

 and died in a week. The first Tetramorium, on the contrary, pros- 

 pered apace; it was larger than any of the Leptothorax workers and 

 was conspicuous on account of its acti\'ity. It ran about continually 

 in all parts of the box, but kept returning from time to time to the 

 Leptothorax. By July 29 a fresh batch of little tubero-affinis larvae 

 had grown up, and the pupae of the second generation began to hatch. 

 August 16 I placed the seven surviving tubero-affnis workers and their 

 queen in alcohol, as the colony had suffered considerably during my trip 



from Zurich to Vaux. It had lived in captivity four months 



"June 25, 1868, having found a formicary of L. acervorum in the 

 bark of a pine, with a winged female and some female pupse, I captured 

 and preserved it in a box till August 16. Several females hatched in 

 the box. The females of this species are not larger than the worker. 

 I often saw these little females carrying the larvae and pupse about 

 like the workers. Strange to say, nearly all of them lost their wings 

 within two or three days from the time of hatching. I even saw one 

 of them obviously endeavoring to rid herself of her wings by twisting 

 them about. As they were born in a box containing no males, they 

 could not have been fecundated. Hence I cannot conceive why they 

 removed their wings. Can it be that the formicaries of Leptothorax 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



are kept up in this way, because the workers cannot retain the fertile 

 females in the nests by force, on account of the small size of the nests 

 and their position on vertical walls, or because the males may not often 

 be present simultaneously with the winged femajes? Would not 

 these dealated females be fecundated later by males appearing in the 

 same formicar}-? The fact remains that one often finds in Leptothorax 

 nests dealated females with small abdomens and apparently not 

 fecundated, together with others obviously fertile. I refrain from de- 

 ciding the question." 



The questions asked by Forel so long ago still remain unanswered, 

 although it is clear that the colonies are not as a rule reneAved and 

 maintained by a retention of the virgin females in the parental nest. 

 My own observations show that the little colonies of these ants are 

 founded by single fertile females, in the very same manner as the huge 

 formicaries of Formica, Camponotus, etc. On several occasions I 

 have found dealated females of Leptothorax either alone or with a 

 very few eggs, larvse or pupse in isolated oak-galls {e.g., L. obturator 

 q. v.). Moreover, I have never found more than one queen in a nest 

 in any of the species that I have taken, except at the very height of the 

 breeding season (l\Iay and early June in Texas, mid- or late summer in 

 the Northern States). Although in such nests I have sometimes seen 

 several dealated females, which probably arose as Forel has described, 

 I am inclined to believe that all of these, except the mother queen, 

 must soon leave the nest and establish colonies of their own. 



The question naturally suggests itself: Why are the colonies of 

 Leptothorax so small? I believe that this peculiar condition may be 

 traced, in part at least, to the following causes, either singly or col- 

 lectively: 1. The females are but little larger than the workers (in 

 L. Emersoni they are not even larger than the workers) and this 

 means relatively small fecundity. This appears to be the case also 

 in other ants that have females of the same or nearly the same size as 

 the workers {Myrmccina, Stenamma s. str.; Ponerinae). And recipro- 

 cally, o-^ing to this reduced fecundity, the queen cannot be abundantly 

 fed, since she produces but few workers. 2. The workers of Lepto- 

 thorax are probably short-lived as compared with many other ants. 

 At least one is inclined to believe this from the rather high mortality 

 among these insects in artificial nests. 3. In most species of Lepto- 

 thorax each colony contains onty a single fertile queen.- 



^ Other observations on the habits of Leptothora.v will be found in the following 

 •works: Adlerz, " Myrmecologiska Studier," II. Svenska Myror och deras Lef- 

 nadsforhollanden, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., Bd. XI, No. IS, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



The geographical distribution of the North American Lcptothorax, 

 though very incompletely known, is not altogether devoid of interest. 

 So far as it is possible to generalize from existing data^, it would seem 

 that the species are rather uniformly distributed over the entire con- 

 tinent, not excepting at least a portion of the Arctic regions. By this 

 I do not mean to say that the same species occur everywhere, or even 

 that the distribution of a particular species is very wide, but that the 

 ant-fauna of any given locality usually comprises a few species of 

 Leptothorax. This indicates a wide range of adaptability to differences 

 of soil, moisture, temperature, vegetation, etc., within the same genus. 

 The extremes of this adaptation seem to be represented by forms like 

 L. curvispinosus, which inhabits the humid shady woods of the North 

 Atlantic States, and L. Pergandei, which occurs even on the sun- 

 scorched soil of the Trans-Pecos deserts. 



We have few species in common wdth Europe, probably only L. 

 acervorum and L. muscoriim, both presenting distinct American varie- 

 ties or subspecies analogous to and occurring over the same territory 

 as the American forms of Formica fusca, rufa and sanguinea and Myr^ 

 mica rubra. All of these forms occur far to the north and to consid- 

 erable altitudes, both in Europe and America, and undoubtedly 

 constitute important elements of an ancient palsearctic ant-fauna.^ At 

 low altitudes and within our territory the forms of L. acervorum and 

 muscorum seem to be confined to the northernmost tier of States. 



The twenty species of Leptothorax recognized in the present paper 

 as occurring in America north of Mexico are about equally distributed 

 between the two divisions of the genus, which are characterized respec- 

 tively by the workers and females having 11- (the males 12-) jointed 

 antennae, and the workers and females having 12- (the males 13-) 

 jointed antennae. It is an interesting fact that the species with 11- 

 jointed antennae in the workers are mainly confined to the Northern 

 and Eastern States, those with 12-jointed antennae to the Western and 

 Southwestern territory. Exceptions are L. curvispiiiosus and acer- 

 vorum, which present varieties even in New Mexico (though at consid- 

 erable altitudes !) and L. tricarinatus, which was described from South 



1886, and III. Tomognathus sublsevis Mayr, ibid., Bd. XXI, No. 4, 1896; 



Wheeler, "The Compound and Mixed Nests of American Ants," Am. Natural., 

 Vol. XXXV, Nos. 414, 41.5. 417 and 418, 1901, and " Ethological Observa- 

 tions on an American Ant (Leptothorax Emersoni Wheeler)," Arch. j. Psych, u. 

 Neurol, Bd. II, Heft 1 u. 2, 190.3 pp. 1-31. 



^ L. acervorum var. conrivialis (q. v.) has been taken on the summit of Las 

 Vegas Range, N. M., at an altitude of 11,000 feet, by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerel! 

 in xenobiosis with another boreal ant, Myrmica brevinodis. L. acervorum var, 

 Kincaidi was described by Pergande from Alaska. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Dakota. All the new species described in the present paper belong 

 to the group with 12-jointed antennse, and it is probable that many- 

 more members of this group remain to be discovered in the West and 

 Southwest. Both groups are represented in Mexico and Central Amer- 

 ica. To judge from Emerj^'s table of the South American species, 

 those with 11-jointed antennse predominate again south of the Equator. 

 Most of these species, however, whether having 11- or 12-jointed 

 antennse, have acute, projecting angles to the pronotmii, and are there- 

 fore consigned to a particular subgenus, Goniothorax, by Emery.* 

 The small group comprising the subgenus Dichothorax Emery (possibly 

 monotjT^ic) is confined to the Southern United States. This subgenus 

 resembles the subgenus Temnothorax Mayr (including only T. recedens 

 Nyl.) in many respects. It is interesting to note that this form occurs 

 only in Southern Europe. 



While some of the European Leptothorax (like tuherum and uni- 

 fasciatus) are known to be extremely variable, the North American 

 materials at the disposal of previous ^\Titers have not been sufficient 

 to prove the same for any of the species on this side of the Atlantic. 

 Nor am I able to throw as much light as I could wish on the limits 

 of variabilit}^ in our species, although my material certainly shows 

 that some of our species are decidedly unstable. Such are, e.g., L. acer- 

 voriim, curvispinosus , nitens and possibly also Schaunii and fortinodis, 

 especially if the two latter really represent extreme forms of the same 

 species, as seems to be indicated by the existence of intermediate 

 forms. 



The genus Leptothorax was established by ]\Iayr in 1855,^ on a num- 

 ber of species previously included by Nylander and other myrmecolo- 

 gists in the composite genus Myrmica, a genus which at one time 

 contained practically all the known ants of the subfamity Myi-micinse. 

 Though some of the characters of Leptothorax are not very definite, 

 the genus has nevertheless stood the test of nearly half a century and 

 will probably continue to stand. Like many ant-genera, and genera 

 of other animals also, for that matter, it is recognized not so much by 

 a description of its characters, as by its peculiar and almost umnistak- 

 able habitus. He who has had little experience in handling ants \\ill 

 be liable to confound the workers of Leptothorax with, the workers of 

 Pheidole or vice versa, but to the experienced eye even the gait of the 



*'Studi sulle Formiche della Fauna Neotropica," Bull. Soc. Ent. Ital. Ann., 

 XXVIII, 1896, pp. 26, 27. 



^"Formicina Austriaca," Verh. K. K. zool.-bot. Ver. Wien, Bd. 5, 1855, pp 

 431-433. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



ants of these two genera differs very decidedly. The following are 

 the leading diagnostic characters of the genus Leptothorax. 



LEPTOTHORAX Mayr. 



Worker. — Small, monomorphic. Head longer than broad, and 

 broader than the thorax. Mandibles broad, 4-5-toothed. Maxillary 

 palpi 5-jointed; labial palpi 3-jointed. Clypeus variable in shape, 

 slightly convex or impressed in the middle, its anterior border some- 

 what rounded, entire or sinuately excised in the middle. Frontal 

 carinse almost straight, diverging very little behind. Antennae 11- 

 or 12-jointed, usually with a distinctly 3-jointed club. Frontal area 

 present. Eyes of moderate size, near the middle of the lateral surface 

 of the head. Ocelli occasionally present, especially in ergatoid or 

 subergatoid individuals. Thorax slender, usually somewhat broader 

 in front, at least above, and narrower behind. Promesonotal suture 

 obsolete; mesoepinotal suture present or absent, the thorax at this 

 region either Tvdthout any constriction, with a faint or a very decided 

 (subgen. Dichothorax) constriction. Epinotum armed wuth a pair of 

 teeth, or spines of variable development. Petiole with a short pedun- 

 cle in front and surmounted by a node of variable form, its lower an- 

 terior surface armed wdth a median tooth. Postpetiole nodiform, 

 sometimes more campanulate, unarmed below. Gaster large, broadly 

 elliptical, compressed dorsoventrally, its basal three-fourths formed 

 by the first segment. Sting well developed, at least in many of the 

 species. Legs rather stout, the femora fusiform, somewhat incrassated 

 in the middle, the tibiae thicker toward their distal ends. Spurs of 

 middle and hind legs simple, not pectinate. Integument very hard. 

 In most species the hairs on the body, and in a few also those on the 

 appendages, are short, erect, clavate and under a high magnification 

 finely crenulate. Our species are yellow, browm, red or black, and the 

 majority of them have the head, thorax and pedicel more or less sculp- 

 tured and in great part opaque. The gaster in all our species is very 

 smooth and shining. 



Female. — Somewhat larger and more robust than the worker, or of 

 the same size. Antennseof the same number of joints. Eyes and ocelli 

 moderately prominent. Thorax with its sides subparallel or somewhat 

 bulging in the middle. Mesonotum conspicuously flattened. Epi- 

 notal spines shorter and often stouter than in the worker. Basal 

 surface of epinotum nearty horizontal. Petiole and postpetiole Hke 

 the corresponding segments of the worker, the node of the former often 

 more acute. Gaster like that of the worker, at least its basal two- 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



thirds formed by the first segment. Wings milky or yellowish hyaline, 

 with very pale and indistinct veins and stigma. Radial cell sometimes 

 open, sometimes closed. There is a single cubital cell. Transverse 

 vein meeting cubital vein at its bifurcation; internal cubital often 

 indistinct. Discal cell closed. The pilosity of the female is usually 

 less pronounced than that of the worker, though of the same character; 

 the sculpturing is rougher. 



Male. — Of the same size as the worker, or but little larger, and 

 usually darker in color. Head short and as broad or broader than the 

 thorax. Mandibles variable, narrow, truncate and toothless, or den- 

 tate or denticulate. Clypeus somewhat convex. Antennae 12-13- 

 jointed; scape short, funiculus very long, shghtly thickened at its 

 distal end to form, in many cases, an indistinct 4-jointed club. Eyes 

 and ocelli large and prominent. Mayrian furrows of mesonotum very 

 distinct. Epinotum not prolonged backward, with two small swell- 

 ings, rarely with two short teeth, in the place of the worker armature. 

 Petiole more slender and with lower node than in the w^orker. Post- 

 petiole nodiform or subcampanulate. Gaster rather slender, elongate 

 elliptical, often shghtly flattened dorsoventrally. Legs slender. 

 Wings as in the female. Hairs on the body and appendages usually 

 much less conspicuous than in the worker, not clavate. 



I subjoin a table for the identification of the workers of the various 

 Leptothorax species known to occur in America north of Mexico. As 

 the females of only half and the males of less than half of our species 

 are known, it is hardly worth while to construct tables for the identifi- 

 cation of the winged sexes.® 



^ The following species have been described from Mexico and Central America, 

 and in all probability comprise but a very small portion of the species actually 

 occurring in tliese countries: 



1. Leptothorax Stolli Forel, Bull. Soc. Vaud. Sci. Nat. (2). XX, p. 352, 1894. 



cJ* ^ ; Dalla Torre, Cat. Hymenopt., VII, 1893, p. 127; :5'orel, Biol. Centr. 

 Am., Ill, 1899, p 54. ? . 

 Guatemala, summit of crater of the Volcan de Agua (13,000 feet!); living 

 under stones. 



2. L. echinat inodis Forel, Compt. Rend. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXX, 1886, p. xlviii. 



^ ; Biol. Centr. Am., Ill, 1899, p. 55. 

 Rio Janeiro, Brazil. Lives in hollow twigs. The typical form has not been 



found in North America, but only the following subspecies and possibly 



its variety: 

 Subsp. aculeatinodis Emery, Bull. Soc. Ent. Ital., XXVIII, 1896, p. 60. g . 

 Costa Rica, Jimenez. Also Brazil. 



Var. pungentinodis Emery, Bull. Mus. Zool. Torino, XI, 1896, p. 2. 9 . 

 Mexico, Atoyac en Vera Cruz; Panama. 



3. L. Pittieri Forel, Biol. Centr. Am., Ill, 1899, p. 56. ^ . Costa Rica. 



4. L. Tristani Emery, Bull. Soc. Ent. Ital, XXVIII, 1896, p. 61. ^ $ . 



Forel, Biol. Centr. Am., Ill, 1899, p. .56 Jimenez, Costa Rica. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



Table for' the identification of the workers of Leptothorax. 



1. Antennae 11-jointed 2 



Antennae 12-jointed 10 



2. Thorax with faiut but distinct mesoepinotal constriction, 3 



Thorax -nithout mesoepinotal constriction, 7 



3. Postpetiole sculptured, opaque, 4 



Postpetiole smooth and shining above, 6 



4. Tibiae and antennal scape without clavate hairs, 5 



Tibiae and antennal scape witli short, erect, clavate hairs, 



L. hirticornis Emery. 



5. Hairs on body long and thin, not clavate, 



muscorum Nyl. var. sordidus var. nov. 

 Hairs on body short and clavate, 



acervorum Mayr. subsp. canadensis Prov., etc. 



6. Tibiae with clavate hairs, Provancheri Emery. 



Tibiae without clavate hairs, Emersoni Wheeler. 



7. Epinotal spines very short, dentiform, 8 



Epinotal spines long 9 



8. Petiole not conspicuously larger in profile than the postpetiole, 



Schaumi Roger. 

 Petiole conspicuously larger in profile than the postpetiole, 



fortinodis Mayr. 

 (and its varieties) . 



9. Dark-colored, with very long, horizontal epinotal spines, 



longispinosus Roger. 

 Yellow, sometimes more or less infuscated; epinotal spines shorter, 



curinspinosus Mayr. 



(and its subspecies and varieties) . 



10. Without mesoepinotal constriction ; hairs on body clavate, not abundant, 1 1 



With pronounced mesoepinotal constriction, hairs abundant, not clavate 



(subgenus DicJwthorax Emery), 19 



11 Head very largely smooth and shining, 12 



Head opaque or subopaque, or smooth only along the median line or 

 behind, 13 



12. Very dark-brown, or black, antennal scape almost reacliing the posterior 



angle of the head, Schmittii sp. nov. 



YeUow. or somewhat infuscated; scape reaching to f the distance between 



the eye and the posterior corner of the head, nitens Emery 



(and its subspecies and variety). 



13. Anterior margin of clypeus entire, rounded, .... 14 



Anterior margin of clypeus sinuately excised, 16 



14. Head and thorax very coarsely refciculate-rugose, . . . texanus sp. nov. 

 Head and thorax not coarsely reticulate-rugose, 15 



15. Clypeus produced, with angularly projecting anterior border, 



tricarinatus Emerj*. 

 Clypeus not produced, with broadly rounded anterior border, 



neomexicanus sp. no%'. 



16. Black or dark-brown species, 17 



Yellow species, IS 



5. L. petiolatus Forel, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XLV, 1901, p. 129. ^ . Wheeler, 

 Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XLV, 1901, p. 201. 

 Cuernavaca, Mexico. ''A single nest, consisting of a deiilated queen and about 

 25 workers in a Tillandsia in parabiosis with Cryplocerus and Cremast^ 

 gaster." 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



17. Petiole slender, seen from above three times as long as broad, node very 



low and rounded, obturator sp. nov. 



Petiole only Ih times as long as broad; node higher and shorter, 



7xevadensis sp. nov. 

 IS. Head opaque throughout, petiolar node round in profile ; length 1.5-1.75 mm., 



terrigena sp. nov. 

 Head with a smooth median line, node of petiole somewhat angular; length 



2.25, Andrei Emery. 



19. Summit of petiolar node seen from behind impressed or concave, 



Pergandei Emery. 

 Summit of petiolar node seen from behind convex, rounded, 



floridanus Emerj% 



1. Leptothorax hirticornis Emery. 



L. hirticornis Emer\', Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Svst , YIII, 1894, pp. 317 and 

 319. ^. ' 



Worker. — Length 2.75 mm. 



Clypeus hardly impressed in the middle. Antennse 11-jointed, joints 

 2-7 of the funiculus shorter than broad, club but relatively little thick- 

 ened. Thorax slender, distinctly impressed at the mesoepinotal 

 suture. Epinotal spines of average size, pointed, strongly com- 

 pressed. Petiole robust, its anterior and posterior dorsal slopes form- 

 ing a slightly obtuse angle; seen from above the sides of the petiole 

 are subparallel. Postpetiole small, almost trapezoidal, a little broader 

 than long. 



Clypeus somewhat shining. Head, thorax and pedicel opaque, 

 densely foveolate-punctate, the upper surface of the head also finely 

 and rather regularl}' longitudinall}' rugose. 



Hairs very short, strongly clavate, erect, not only covering the 

 body but also the antennal scape and legs. 



Bright testaceo-ferruginous, gaster and middle of front infuscated. 



Type locahty: Washington., D C. (Pergande). 



Described from a single specimen in the collection of Prof. Emery. 



2. Leptothorax muscorum Nylander, var. sordidus var. nov. 



L. muscorum Emery, Zool. Jalirb. Abth. f . Sj-st., VIII, 1S94, p. 31S. ^ . 



Worker (PI. XII, fig. 2).— Length 2-2.75 mm. 



Clypeus not impressed in the middle, its anterior border nearly 

 straight, not produced. Antennae 11-jointed; scape reaching to mid- 

 way between the eye and the posterior angle of the head ; first funicular 

 joint as long as joints 2-4 together, terminal joint as long as the two 

 preceding joints of the club. Thorax broad in front, wdth rounded 

 humeri, much narrower behind, with a distinct mesoepinotal con- 

 striction. Epinotal spines of moderate length, directed backward, 

 and shghtly outward, about as far apart at their bases as they are long. 

 Petiole from above suboblong, with slightly convex sides, nearly 




1903.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



twice as long as broad : in profile the anterior and posterior slopes of 

 the node are of nearly equal length, the former slightly concave, the 

 latter distinctly convex, the apex somewhat flattened. Postpetiole 

 hardly more than half as long as the petiole, but half again as broad, 

 with prominent, rounded anterior angles and convex node. 



Head subopaque, longitudinally reticulate rugose, mandibles and 

 frontal area smooth, clypeus with several longitudinal rugse, which are 

 so delicate as to leave the surface shining. Thorax subopaque, irregu- 

 larly reticulate rugose, especially on the pronotum and epinotmn, 

 the neck and pleurse still more delicately reticulate. Petiole and post- 

 petiole subopaque, delicately reticulate rugose. Gaster smooth and 

 shining. 



Hairs on the head and trunk whitish, rigid and obtuse, but hardly 

 clavate, longest and most conspicuous on the abdomen. Antenna? and 

 legs clothed with delicate, appressed, whitish hairs. 



Color yellow, whole head, except the mandibles, dark-brown. There 

 is a large brown blotch on the pronotum and one on the epinotum. 

 Nodes of petiole and postpetiole, trochanters, swollen portions of the 

 femora, club of antennse and the dorsal surface of the gaster distinctly 

 infuscated. 



Type locality: Boulder, Colo. 



Described from a dozen specimens received from Rev. P. J. Schmitt, 

 O.S.B. 



This variety appears to be identical with the form mentioned by 

 Emery from Hill City, S. Dak. (Pergande). It differs from specimens 

 of the typical Eviropean muscorum, sent me by Prof. Forel from the 

 Schluderbach, Switzerland, in the follo^\'ing points: Hairs on the 

 trunk distinctly shorter and at least on the head, thorax and pedicel 

 distinctly thicker. Dorsal portions of thorax and pedicel and the 

 thickened portions of the femora infuscated. These characters are 

 constant in the twelve Colorado specimens. 



3. Leptotliorax acervorum Mayr, subs, canadensis Provancher. 



L. canadensis Provancher. Addit. Faun. Canada, Hjancnopt., 1SS7, p 



245. ^9&. 

 L. acervorum var. canadensis Er. Andre, Rev. d'EntomoL, ^'I, 1SS7, p. 



295. ? . 

 L. acervorum var. canadensis Dalla Torre, Catal. Hymenopt., VII, 1S9:3, 



p. 123. 

 L. canadensis Emerv, Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Svst., VIII. 1S94, pp. 317, 



318, 319. 



Worker (PI. XII, fig. 4).— Length 2.75-3.5 mm. 

 Minute ocelli occasionally present. Clypeus with a distinct longi- 

 tudinal impression in the middle, its anterior border rather convex and 

 15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



rounded. Antenna? 1 1-jointed ; scape reaching midway between the eye 

 and the posterior angle of the head ; first funicular joint not longer than 

 joints 2-3 together; terminal joint distinctly longer than the two pre- 

 ceding joints of the club. Thorax long, subcylindrical, somewhat nar- 

 rowed behind, dorsally flattened, its anterior angles rounded; pro- 

 mesonotal and mesoepinotal sutures both distinct, a slight but distinct 

 constriction at the latter. Epinotal spines rather short and blunt, 

 compressed, in many specimens tooth-like and hardly longer than 

 broad at the base, directed backward in a line with the dorsal surface 

 of the epinotum, in no case longer than their distance apart at the base. 

 Petiole from above oblong, not more than 1^ times as long as broad, 

 the node in profile with evenly concave anterior and somewhat de- 

 pressed but convex posterior slope. Postpetiole trapezoidal, distinctly 

 broader than long, its anterior angles prominent, anterior border 

 distinctly broader than the posterior, dorsal surface hemispherical in 

 profile. 



Mandibles shining, coarsely punctate. J\Iedian impressed surface of 

 clypeus smooth and shining, lateral surfaces longitudinally rugose. 

 Head opaque, longitudinally reticulate rugose, the rugae being most 

 distinctly longitudinal on the front, vertex and cheeks. Thorax 

 opaque, covered with reticulate rugae which have a decidedly longi- 

 tudinal trend on the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the pronotum and 

 on the dorsal surface of the epinotum and the mesopleurse. On the 

 mesonotum the reticulation resolves itself into an area of even, close-set 

 foveolse. Pedicel opaque, the petiole sculptured like the mesonotum, 

 the postpetiole somewhat smoother and almost punctate. Gaster 

 smooth and shining. 



Hairs whitish; those on the head, thorax and pedicel short, rigid 

 and subclavate, on the gaster longer and thinner; on the antennae and 

 legs delicate, appressed. 



Color dark-brown, almost black; small joints of the funiculus, the 

 metatarsi, bases of femora, trochanters, ventral surface of pedicel, 

 and in many specimens also the sutural regions of the thorax, yellow 

 or pale-brown. In some specimens (immature?) nearly the whole 

 thorax and the whole of the tibiae are yellow. 

 Female (dealated). — Length 3.75-4 mm. 



Apart from the distinctively sexual characters, the female differs 

 from the worker in the following characters : The reticulate rugosity of 

 the head is more decidedly longitudinal, the rugae running back regu- 

 larly to the occiput without deviation at the ocellar region. Meso- 

 notum, scutellum and pleurae traversed by distinct longitudinal rugae, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



the first somewhat shining in the middle near its anterior border and in 

 the regions of the parapsidal furrows. On the epinotum, about the 

 bases of the spines, the rugse become very coarse and reticulate. Epi- 

 notal spines short and blunt, resembling those of the worker in shape 

 and direction. Petiolar node pointed, with rather flat anterior and 

 posterior slopes, coarsely reticulate rugose. Sculpture of postpetiole 

 less pronounced than that of the petiole, but coarser than the petiole 

 of the worker. Pilosity short, like that of the worker, but the hairs on 

 the head, thorax and pedicel are less clavate. Head, thorax, abdomen, 

 femora and antennal club, black, remaining portions of the legs and 

 the funicle, brown. 



Type locality : "Canada." 



Additional localities: Elk county, Pa. (Bradley); Olympia, Wash. 

 (Kincaid). 



This form should, I believe, be regarded as belonging to the same 

 species as the European acervorum, as suggested by Andre. As Emery 

 claimed, however, it deserves to rank as a subspecies, and not as a 

 variety. The workers differ from the European specimens of acer- 

 vorum in my collection (from Switzerland (Forel) and Scotland 

 (Duglich)) in the shorter epinotal spines, the much deeper coloration of 

 the thorax, pedicel and legs, the shorter and more clavate hairs on the 

 trunk and the minute, appressed, instead of suberect hairs on the 

 antennal scapes and legs. My specimens of the North American form 

 average nearly as large as the European. 



This subspecies is certainly rare in the Eastern States, but seems to 

 be very common in Washington, to judge from the number of different 

 nests sent me from that state by Prof. Kincaid. This is probably sig- 

 nificant in connection with the palearctic distribution of acervorum. 



The habits of the American subspecies are unknown. They prob- 

 ably resemble those of the European form, which lives in small colo- 

 nies under bark, in moss, etc. 



3a. Var. yankee Emery. 



L. canadensis Prov. var. yankee, Zool. Jahrb., VIII, '94, p. 319. ? 9 . 



The worker (fig. 5) differs from the worker of canadensis typ. in 

 lighter coloration and in having somewhat longer epinotal spines. 

 Head dark-brown, gaster somewhat paler; mouth, thorax, pedicel and 

 legs reddish; antennal club, thoracic dorsum and femora usually 

 infuscated. Sculpture finer and less rugose than in canadensis. In the 

 female the thorax is dark-brown, the sculpture more pronounced. 



Type localities: South Dakota, Utah, Colorado. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Several workers sent me by Rev. P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B., from Boulder, 

 Colo., agree very well with Emery's description. 



3b. Var. convivialis var. nov. 



Length of worker 2-2.5 mm.; of female 3 mm. Differs from the 

 typical canadensis and the preceding variety, in its small size and very 

 deep coloration. Head, thorax, abdomen, femora and tibiae black, 

 neck, ventral portions of pedicel, fmiiculus, trochanters, knees and tarsi 

 red or yellow. Epinotal spines short and blunt. Sculpturing of body 

 as rough as that of the typical canadensis. Color of the female deeper 

 than that of the worker, the shining region of the mesonotum is more 

 extensive than in the female of canadensis, and there is a large shining 

 area devoid of sculpture in the middle of the scutellum. 



Type locality : ^Milwaukee, Wis. 



Additional localities: Colebrook, Conn.; top of Las Vegas Range 

 (11,000 feet), N. M. (T. D. A. CockereU) ; Beulah, N. M. (F. W. P. Cock- 

 erell). 



This variety seems to have a pronounced tendency to symbiosis 

 with other species of Myrmicidae. The Milwaukee specimens were 

 found living in the bark of a stump in xenobiosis with Cremastogaster 

 lineolata Say. Those from the top of the Las Vegas Range were 

 taken by Prof. CockereU in a nest of Myrmica hrevinodis. The 

 Connecticut specimens appeared to be living in plesiobiosis with For- 

 mica rufa subsp. difficilis Emery. 



3c. Var. Kincaidi Pergande. 



L. Yankee Emery var. Kincaidi Pergande, Proceed. Wash. Acad. Sci.,Vol. II, 

 December 20, 1900, pp. 520, 521. ^ $ . 



"Female. — Length about 4 mm. 



"Head and thorax black, the abdomen dark-brown, with the pos- 

 terior edge of the segments brownish-yellow ; antennae, mandibles and 

 legs yellowish-red, the neck and paler parts of the nodes of a darker 

 red; the flagellmn grows gradually darker toward the end, with the 

 last joint black; femora dark-brown, their base and apex yellowish-red; 

 teeth of mandibles black. Head finely striated, the striae most distinct 

 in front of the eyes and between the frontal carinae; the posterior 

 half of the head is finely and rather densely rugose or reticulate, the 

 clypeus is almost smooth and the mandibles striato-punctate ; pro- 

 notum and mesonotum quite coarsely rugose, the metanotum, scu- 

 tellum and upper surface of nodes finely, though rather indistinctly, 

 striated ; decHvity of the metathorax transversely striated. Abdomen 

 smooth. Erect hairs short, truncate and pale-yellowish, those of the 

 nodes and abdomen longest; there are also a few much finer, erect 

 hairs on the femora. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



"The female resembles somewhat that of L. yanhee, which, however, 

 is somewhat smaller, the last antennal joint and metanotal spines 

 shorter, the hairs of the abdomen much finer and the erect hairs of 

 the femora wanting. 



'^Worker. — Length about 3 mm. 



"Head and teeth of mandibles black, the abdomen dark-brown; an- 

 tennae, mandibles, thorax, legs and nodes reddish-yellow; coloration 

 of the last three or four joints of the antennae and the femora as in 

 the female, the upper surface of the thorax and nodes more or less 

 decidedly reddish-brown. Striation of the head more distinct than 

 in the female, and the space between the striae more or less distinctly 

 reticulated, particularly so toward the sides. Pronotum and mesono- 

 tum and the nodes finely rugose; sculpturing of the metanotum 

 slightly coarser. Abdomen smooth; all the hairs similar to those of 

 the female. 



"The worker is very similar in appearance to those of L. yankee, 

 though somewhat larger, more robust, the sculpturing coarser and the 

 hairs stouter." 



Type locality: Metlakahtla, Alaska (June). Cat. No. 5,278 U. S. 

 National Museimi. 



Described from one female and twelve workers. 



4. Leptothorax Provancheri Emery. 



Myrmica tuberum Provancher, Natur. Canad., V, 12, 1881, p. 3592. Faune 



Entom. Canad., Hymenopt., 1883, p. 602. ? . 

 Leptothorax Provancheri Emery, Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Syst., VIII, 1894, 



pp. 317 and 320. $ . 



Worker. — Length 2.75 mm. 



Body robust. Antennae 11-jointed. Thorax stout, impressed at 

 the mesoepinotal suture. Epinotal spines short, tooth-like, resem- 

 bling those of L. canadensis var. yankee. Petiole with subparallel 

 sides, node angulate above. Postpetiole about half again as'_broad 

 as the petiole, transversely elliptical. 



Opaque, rugose-punctate; sculpturing like that of acervorum, the 

 rugae on the head less niunerous, forming wdde meshes. Postpetiole 

 very smooth and shining, with a few piligerous punctures, but other- 

 wise impimctate. Gaster smooth and shining, with short longitudi- 

 nal striae at its extreme base. 



Hairs rather long, clavate, both on the body and on the tibiae. 



Testaceous, crown of head infuscated. 



Type locality: "Canada" (Provancher). 



Redescribed by Emery from a single specimen, Provancher's orig- 

 inal description being inadequate for the identification of the species. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



5. Leptothorax Emersoni Wheeler. 



L. Emersoni Wheeler, Am. Natural., XXXV, 1901, pp. 433-436. ^cJ'? . 



W(yrker (PL XII, fig. 6).— Length 2.5-3.3 mm. 



Head rather convex above, exchiding the mandibles not much longer 

 than broad, sides rounded, posterior margin very faintly excised in 

 the middle. Eyes rather large, convex, in the middle of the lateral 

 siu-face of the head. Ocelli often present. Clypeus large, convex, 

 broadly rounded in front. ^Mandibles 6-toothed. Antennae 11-jointed, 

 scape reaching nearly to the posterior angle of the head; first 

 funicular joint but little longer than the second and third joints 

 together ; terminal joint not quite as long as joints 7-9 of the funiculus. 

 Thorax rather long, rounded in front, narrowed behind, ^dlh. distinct 

 promesonotal and mesoepinotal sutures, the thorax distinctly con- 

 stricted at the latter. Epinotal spines short, blunt, compressed, 

 hardly longer than broad at their bases, directed somewhat upward 

 and backward, their distance apart at the base greater than their 

 length. Petiole from above oblong, H times as long as broad, sides 

 slightly convex just in front of the middle ; in profile the node is pointed, 

 with distinctly concave anterior and posterior slopes. In some speci- 

 mens, however, the posterior slope is straight or even somewhat con- 

 vex. Ventral portion compressed, produced forward as a blunt projec- 

 tion, Postpetiole campanulate, vath. eA^enly convex dorsal surface; 

 seen from above it is nearly twice as broad as the petiole, its anterior 

 portion evenly rounded, not angulate. Gaster rather large, of the 

 usual shape, without distinct anterior angles. 



Head opaque. Mandibles coarsely punctate. Clypeus smooth in 

 the middle, with a few longitudinal rugse on either side. Head tra- 

 versed by coarse longitudinal and occasionally anastomosing rugse; 

 interrugal spaces coarsely and more or less confluently foveolate- 

 punctate. Around the eyes the rugse become more reticulate, though 

 they stiU have a distinctly longitudinal trend on the cheeks and lower 

 surface of the head. Thorax opaque, its dorsal surface resembling 

 the head in sculptm-e, except that the rugse are more reticulate and 

 without longitudinal trend. On the pleurae the rugae become indis- 

 tinct and are replaced by even and closely aggregated foveolse. Petiole 

 opaque, sculptured like the pleurae. Postpetiole smooth and shining 

 above, delicately reticulate under a high magnification, especially on 

 the sides. Gaster very glabrous and shining. 



Whole body, including the legs and antennae, abundantly beset with 

 rather long, suberect, whitish hairs, which on the trunk are obtuse but 

 bv no means clavate. Hairs on the gaster longest and most regularly 

 arranged. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



YelloAv or reddish-yellow, dorsal surface of head, terminal half of 

 funiculus and the gaster, with the exception of the anterior, lateral 

 and posterior borders of the segments, both on the dorsal and ventral 

 surfaces, black or dark-brown. 



Female. — Length 2.5-3.5 mm. 



Like the worker. Thoracic dorsum dark-brown, rather shining; 

 mesonotum and scutellum traversed by distinct, rather widel}'- sep- 

 arated, longitudinal rug?e; pronotum and epinotum coarsely reticu- 

 late rugose, the rugse of the latter being continued up onto the dorsal 

 and lateral surfaces of the stout, blunt spines. Pleura? subopaque, 

 coarsely reticulate rugose, the meshes being occupied b}^ aggregated 

 shallow foveolse. Node of petiole somewhat more acute than that of 

 the worker. Wings grayish hyaline, veins and stigma dirty yellowish. 



.1/a/f. ^Length 2.5-3 mm. 



^landibles very small, not distinctly dentate and far from meeting 

 each other with their blades. Antennse 12-jointed; scape hardly as 

 long as the three first joints of the funiculus together, first funicular 

 joint very short, the others cylindrical, of uniform thickness but in- 

 creasing gradually in length toward the tip. Parapsidal and other 

 thoracic sutures ver}' distinct. Epinotum \\dth two very short rugose 

 projections in the place of the spines. Petiolar node low, rounded, 

 its anterior slope slightly concave, its posterior slope shorter and con- 

 vex. Postpetiole hemispherical. Gaster somewhat less flattened and 

 narrower than in the worker. 



Mandibles striated. Clypeus even in the middle with a few delicate 

 longitudinal rugse. Head above longitudinally reticulate rugose; 

 rugae radiating backward and laterally from the posterior ocelli as 

 centers. Thorax rather smooth, indistinctly punctate. Pedicel and 

 gaster glabrous. 



Hairs almost completely absent on the head and thorax, short and 

 inconspicuous on the legs, long on the pedicel and gaster, but nowhere 

 truncated at their tips. 



Brownish-yellow like the worker. Head, thoracic dorsum, pedicel 

 and gaster, and the middle portions of the femora and tibiae somewhat 

 darker. Wings as in the female. 



Type locality: Colebrook, Litchfield county, Conn. Males and 

 females appearing in August. 



This species always lives in xenobiosis with a larger Myrmicine ant 

 (Myrmica hrevinodis Emery) in the hummocks of moss {Polylrichum 

 commune), under stones, bits of wood, etc., in rather damp, grassy 

 bogs. The Leptothorax occupy separate nests, which, however, com- 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb , 



municate by means of narrow passages with the galleries and chambers 



of the Myrmica. They obtain their food by licking the surfaces of the 



Myrmica and by regurgitation. All sorts of transitional forms occur 



between the workers and queens (ergatoids and macroergates with 



from one to three ocelli). 



6. Leptothorax Schaumi Roger. 



L. Schaumi Roger, Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., VII, 1863, p. 180, No. 70. ^ . 

 L. Schaumi Mayr, Yerh. Zool. bot. Ges. Wien, XXXVJ, 1S86, p. 451. cJ' . 

 L. Schaumii Dalla Torre, Catalog H\anenopt., VII, 1893, p. 127. 

 L. Schaumi Emerj-, Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Syst., VIII, 1894, p. 320. 



^yorker (PI. XII, fig. 7).— Length 2.5-2.75 mm, 



Mandibles 5-toothed. Clypeus convex without median impression; 

 its anterior border rather straight. Antennae 11-jointed; scape reach- 

 ing hardly to half way between the eye and the posterior angle of the 

 head, funiculus vnXh. a distinctly 3-jointed club; first funicular joint 

 almost as long as joints 2-5 together; joints 2-7 distinctly broader than 

 long; terminal joint fully as long as the two preceding joints. Thorax 

 rather short, flattened dorsally and laterally, broader in front than 

 behind, with distinct and rather sharp humeral angles, and with a 

 constriction at the mesoepinotal suture. Epinotal spines very short, 

 dentiform, not longer than broad at their bases. Petiole seen from 

 above oblong, 1^ times as long as broad, its sides parallel except at 

 the peduncle which is narrower; in profile the anterior dorsal slope is 

 concave and about the same length as the straight or somewhat con- 

 vex posterior slope ; ventral surface with a distinct tooth directed for- 

 ward. Postpetiole scarcely half again as broad as the petiole, distinctly 

 broader than long, oblong, with distinct though rounded anterior 

 angles. Its dorsal surface is evenly semicircular in profile. Gaster 

 of the usual shape, with small but distinct anterior angles. 



Clypeus with sharp longitudinal rugse, two of which, near the middle, 

 are more prominent than the others. Mandibles with distinct longi- 

 tudinal rugae. Head, clypeus and mandibles with a silky luster, the 

 first traversed by fine parallel rugae separated by rows of foveolate 

 punctm"es, which are clearest in certain lights on the posterior lateral 

 surfaces and cheeks. Thorax, petiole and postpetiole opaque, covered 

 uniformly \d\\\ foveolate punctures. Gaster smooth and shining. 



Hairs moderately nmnerous on the body, white, erect, clavate; 

 short on the head and thorax, much longer on the gaster and of inter- 

 mediate length on the pedicel. Hairs on the antennae and legs minute, 

 non-clavate, appressed. 



Yellowish-red, the edges of the mandibles black. Gaster in some 

 specimens dark-brown throughout, in others yellow or with much of 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



the base of the first segment yellow. Antennse and legs yellow, club 

 and sometimes also the scape of the former, infuscated. 



Male. — Length 3.2 mm. 



Mandibles dentate, touching each other with their blades. Antennse 

 12-jointed, scape about as long as the first three joints of the funiculus 

 together; funiculus from the second joint to the end of uniform thick- 

 ness, filiform; second joint a little shorter than the third, shorter, in 

 fact, than any of the succeeding joints. Instead of spines or teeth, 

 the epinotum bears two indistinct elongate swellings. Radial cell of 

 wings short and closed. 



Mandibles rather smooth and shining, with scattered punctures 

 near their inner edges. Clypeus moderately shining and very deli- 

 cately longitudinally rugose. Cheeks and region between antennal 

 insertions and eyes sharply striated longitudinally; front -^-ith delicate 

 longitudinal rugse; vertex finely reticulate punctate. Thorax rather 

 smooth and shining, median and posterior portions of mesonotum finely 

 longitudinally rugose and in part obliquely. Petiole, postpetiole and 

 gaster smooth and shining. 



Pilosity sparse, tibite without suberect hairs. 



Blackish-brown, pedicel and gaster darker. Mandibles, antennae 

 except the brown scape, joints of legs, tarsi, and in part also the joints 

 of the pedicel, yellow or reddish-yellow. Wings clear, hyaline. 



Type locality: "Pennsylvania" (Schaum). 



Additional locahties: District of Columbia (Pergande); Beatty, 

 Pa. (Schmitt) ; Westville, N. J. (Schmitt) ; Austin, Tex. 



In the locality last mentioned I have occasionally taken the 

 workers of L. Schaumi running on the bark of large willows (Salix 

 nigra). 



7. Leptothorax fortinodis Mayr. 



I. fortinodis MajT, Ver. Zool. bot. Ges. Wien, XXXYI, 18S6, pp. 451, 452. 



L. fortinodis Dalla Torre, Catalog. Hymenopt., A II, 1893, p. 124. 



L. fortinodis Emery, Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Syst., VIII, 1894, pp. 318, 321. 



Worker (PL XII, fig. 8).— Length 2.5-3 mm. 



Head somewhat longer than broad, sides subparallel, occipital border 

 nearly straight. Eyes moderately large and convex. Mandibles 

 5-toothed. Clypeus convex, its anterior border broad and rounded. 

 Antennse 11-jointed; scape reaching to midway between the eye and 

 the posterior angle of the head; funiculus terminating in a 3-jointed 

 club; first funicular joint as long as joints 2-4 together; joints 2-5 

 broader than long, 6 and 7 as long as broad; terminal joint somewhat 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



longer than the two preceding joints of the ckib. Thorax moderately 

 long, its dorsal and pleural surfaces flattened: humeral angles promi- 

 nent and rather sharp ; no constriction between the meso- and epinotum. 

 Epinotal spines very short, not longer than broad at their bases, 

 turned upward. Pedicel rather robust; petiole oblong when seen from 

 above, almost twice as long as broad; sides of the nodal portion nearly 

 parallel, peduncle narrower; in profile the anterior slope is distinctly 

 concave, the posterior .strongly convex, the apex of the node rounded; 

 anterior ventral surface with a prominent tooth, directed forward and 

 downward. Postpetiole but little broader than the petiole; nearly 

 as long as broad, subglobose, strongly arched dorsally, its anterior 

 about as broad as its posterior border, the anterior angles rounded, 

 hardly distinct. Gaster of the usual configuration, with small but 

 prominent basal angles. Legs robust. 



Mandibles and clypeus longitudinalh' rugose, the former finely and 

 indistincth', the latter more coarseh' and distinctly. Head opaque, 

 except the crown and occiput which are more or less shining or lus- 

 trous, covered with foveolate punctures, in addition to which the front 

 and crown are finely longitudinally rugose, the cheeks and sides 

 reticulate-rugose, the lower surface more indistinctly reticulate. 

 Thorax, petiole and postpetiole opaque, or shghtly lustrous, densely 

 and evenly foveolate-punctate. Gaster smooth and shining. 



Hairs on the body yellowish-white; erect and clavate on the head, 

 thorax and abdomen; longest on the gaster; on the antennae and legs 

 the hairs are minute, tapering and appressed. 



Head, thorax and pedicel deep reddish-brown, gaster almost or quite 

 black; mandibles, antennae and legs red, club of antennae and often also 

 the femora infuscated. 



Female (dealated). — Length .3.5-4 mm. 



Like the worker in coloration, except that the anterior and lateral 

 portion of the mesonotmn, the epinotum and dorsal surfaces of the 

 petiolar and postpetiolar nodes may be distinctly infuscated. Whole 

 upper surface of head longitudinally rugose, the rugae diverging to 

 the corners of the head in the postocellar region. Mesonotmn and 

 scutellum traversed by numerous parallel longitudinal rugae,' which 

 are finer than those on the head ; pronotum finely reticulate, median por- 

 tion of scutellum smooth and shining; pleurae reticulate-punctate, 

 rather rough, the rugae somewhat longitudinal in direction. Epinotal 

 spines very small and tooth-like, rather blunt; the region between and 

 below them densely foveolate-punctate. Petiole ^^^th less convex 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



anterior slope to the node; postpetiole relative^ shorter and broader 

 than in the worker. 



T3^pe locality: Maiyland. 



Additional locality: Austin, Tex. 



The specimens from Austin have the head, thorax and pedicel 

 decidedly paler in color than a type specimen received from Dr. INIayr 

 and three topotypes given me by Mr. Pergande ; the petiole is relatively 

 smaller and there is a clavate hair at the base of each epinotal spine 

 as in Schaumi. This hair is lacking in my types of jortinodis, possibly 

 because these are much rubbed. 



I have found only a single colony of this form at Austin. This had 

 taken up its abode in an abandoned gall of Holcaspis cinerosus Basset 

 on the live-oak {Quercus virginiana). It contained 143 workers, a 

 single deiilated queen and 35 larvae in different stages. The latter 

 were white and not greenish like the larvse of L. obturator which in- 

 habits the same kind of galls. The entrance to the jortinodis nest 

 was a small round hole with much worn edges, e\'idently the modified 

 exit of some parasite on the Holcaspis. 



7a. Var. melanoticus var. nov. 



Worker. — Length 2-2.5 mm. 



This form is decidedly smaller and much deeper in color than the 

 tj'pical jortinodis. Whole body black, petiole and postpetiole brown- 

 ish behind and below; mandibles, joints of legs, tarsi and funiculus 

 brown. Epinotal spines very short and blunt in some specimens, in 

 others acute and longer, recalling the conditions described bj'' INIayr 

 for a small variety of jortinodis from the District of Columbia. 



Female (dealated). — Length 2.9-3 mm. 



Decidedly smaller than the typical form, head and thorax as well as 

 the pedicel and gaster black ; the ventral surface of the petiole and post- 

 petiole reddish. Legs dark-brown or black; coxae, knees, tarsi and basal 

 portion of funiculus somewhat paler. 



Type locality: Rockford, 111. 



The workers of this apparently somewhat depauperate form are 

 sometimes seen running on the bark of large prostrate oak logs in the 

 woods. They inhabit small flat chambers only + to | inch in diameter 

 excavated in the thick corky bark. Each nest contains a single 

 dealated queen and a comparatively small number of workers (about 

 25 to 40). 



7^. Var. gilvus var. nov. 



Worker. — Length 2.25 mm. 



Differs from the typical jortinodis in the color, which is throughout 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



a clear yellow, and in the sculpturing of the head, which is smooth and 

 shining except on the sides, where it is more opaque and reticulate. 

 The vertex is traversed by a few rather widely separated rugae. 



Female (dealated). — Length 4 mm. 



Differs like the worker in coloration. The whole body is yellow, 

 except the wing insertions, which are black. 



Type locaUty : Austin, Tex. 



This variety is based on a single dealated queen which was found 

 accompanied by seven workers and a few larvae in a small Holcaspis 

 cinerosus gall on a Hve-oak tree. These e\"idently constituted an in- 

 cipient colony, remarkable because the queen and two workers were 

 pure yellow, while the five remaining workers were dark-browTi wdth 

 black gasters, hke the workers of the typical jortinodis. All the workers, 

 however, had the peculiar smoothness of the head and were undoubt- 

 edly the offspring of the same mother. I beheve this colony must 

 present a case of hybridism, a female of the new varietj^ gilva ha\T.ng 

 been fertihzed by a male of the t>T)ical jortinodis. It is difficult to 

 explain the peculiar dichromatism of the workers in this little colony 

 in any other waj^, since the yellow workers were not callows but per- 

 fectly mature, and the queen differed so decidedly in color from the 

 majority of her offspring. Unfortunately the colony was killed by 

 dropping the gall into alcohol before the peculiarities of the workers 

 were noticed. 



The Austin specimens of jortinodis, together with those representing 

 the varieties melanoticus and gilvus, all have the petiole much smaller 

 than in Mayr's type and suggest transitions to Schaumi. Particularly 

 is this the case with var. gilvus, which is based on the female. The 

 female of Schaumi and the males of both species being unknown, I 

 am imable to dehmit the two species accurately. 

 8. Leptothorax longispinosus Roger. 



L. longispinosus Roger, Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., "\T;I, 1863, p. 180, No. 69. ? . 

 L. longispinosus Ma}T, Verh. Zool. bot. Ges. Wien, XXXVI, 1886, p. 451. ^ . 

 L. longispinosus Dalla Torre, Catalog. Hvmenopt., ^^[I, 1893, p. 125. 

 L. longispinosus Emerj', Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Syst.. VIII, 1894. p. 321. ^ Q . 



Worker (PL XII, fig. 9).— Length 2.25-2.5 mm. 



Head exclusive of the mandibles not much longer than broad, 

 posterior angles considerably rounded. Mandibles 5-toothed. Eyes 

 of moderate size, rather flattened. Clypeus convex, not impressed 

 in the middle, its anterior border rounded. Antennae 11-jointed, 

 scape reaching the posterior angle of the head, club 3-jointed; first 

 funicular joint as long as joints 2-4 together; joints 1-3 broader than 

 long; joints 4-6 as long as broad; terminal joint as long as the two pre- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



ceding joints together. Thorax rather short, anterior angles rounded 

 but distinct, dorsal surface and pleurse somewhat flattened; meso- 

 epinotal suture distinct but without a constriction. Epinotal spines 

 very long and stout, directed backward, rather suddenly tapering 

 at their tips which are curved slightly inward and downward. Petiole 

 from above suboblong, twice as long as broad, sides nearly parallel, 

 posterior border a Uttle broader than the anterior ; in profile the ante- 

 rior slope is distinctly and evenly concave, the posterior convex; 

 the anterior ventral surface has a distinct but rather blunt tooth; 

 summit of node blunt. Postpetiole hardly half again as broad as 

 the petiole, as long as broad, with rounded but distinct anterior angles, 

 convex dorsally. Gaster of the usual shape, with distinct anterior 

 angles. 



Mandibles coarsely longitudinally rugose, hardly shining. Clypeus 

 somewhat shining, traversed even in the middle by several clean-cut 

 longitudinal rugse. Head shining, especially on the posterior and 

 posterolateral portions ; anteriorly with clean-cut longitudinal rugae, 

 which are coarsely reticulate and further apart on the cheeks, more 

 delicate on the crown and occiput. Thorax opaque, except the meso- 

 notum, which is somewhat shining. Neck coarsely and evenly punc- 

 tate; remaining surface of thorax covered vnth coarse, irregularly 

 longitudinal rugse which extend up on the epinotal spines; interrugal 

 spaces with shallow foveolate punctures, forming a secondary reticu- 

 lation. Petiole and postpetiole opaque, coarsely rugose and punctate. 

 Gaster very smooth and shining. 



Hairs silvery-white, those on the head, thorax and abdomen very 

 regularly arranged, clavate, erect; on the antennae and legs minute, non- 

 clavate and appressed. 



Head and gaster black; thorax and pedicel dark-brown; antennae 

 and legs yellow ; scape and club of the former, coxae, femora and some- 

 times also the tibiae of the latter, infuscated. Mandibles dark-brown, 

 their distal half yellow. 



Female. — Length 3.5-4 mm. 



Head opaque, densely and rather finely longitudinally rugose. Eyes 

 moderate; ocelli rather small. Thorax opaque; pronotum coarsely 

 longitudinally rugose ; mesonotum traversed by numerous very regular, 

 parallel rugae. Scutellum somewhat shining, covered with much more 

 delicate rugae than those of the mesonotum and more reticulate and 

 less longitudinal in direction. Pleurae, epinotum and epinotal spines 

 covered with coarse reticulate rugae, which have a decidedly longitudi- 

 nal trend. Epinotal spines shorter, stouter and less curved than those 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



of the worker. Petiole and postpetiole opaque and more roughly sculp- 

 tured than those of the worker. Wings milky-white, the veins and 

 stigma very pale. Pilosity and color of body, legs and antennae hke 

 the worker, except that the thorax is darker and often quite black, 

 especially on the dorsal surface. 



Male. — Length 2-2.5 mm. 



Head, exclusive of the mandibles, about as broad as long. Eyes 

 very prominent; ocelli reniform. Mandibles overlapping, small, acute, 

 dentate. Antennse 12-jointed; scape as long as joints 1-4 of the 

 funiculus, the funiculus with a 4-jointed club; first funicular joint 

 swollen, somewhat longer than joints 2-3 together; joints 3-7 cyhn- 

 drical, about twice as long as broad, joints of club fusiform gradually 

 increasing in length distally. Thorax with strongly marked parapsidal 

 and Mayrian furrows. Epinotum evenly rounded, with two small 

 prominences in the place of the large spines of the worker and queen. 

 Petiole larger and postpetiole more slender than in the worker and 

 both with much lower nodes, the former somewhat pedunculate, the 

 latter subquadrate from above, with rounded angles, as long as broad 

 and hardly half again as broad as the petiole. G aster of the usual 

 shape. Legs rather long and slender. 



Clypeus shining, with a few clean-cut, longitudinal rugae. Head 

 subopaque, indistinctly rugose and punctate except the cheeks, where 

 the rugse are pronounced and reticulate. Thorax smooth; pleurae, 

 mesonotum and scutellum shining, their surfaces indistinctly and 

 irregularly punctate at the sutures. Epinotmn opaque, very finely 

 rugose. Petiole and postpetiole opaque, finely rugose; the upper sur- 

 faces of the nodes, especially of the postpetiole, smooth and almost 

 shining. Gaster subopaque. 



Hairs on the body few and very slender, whitish; longest on the 

 gaster; those on the legs and antennae minute and appressed. 



Black; mandibles, antennae, legs and genitalia white. Bases of 

 mandibles, scape, antennal club, coxae, femora, tibiae and last tarsal 

 joint of each foot, distinctly infuscated. Wings milky-white with 

 very pale veins and stigma. 



Type locality: ''America." 



Additional localities: Virginia (Mayr); District of Columbia (Per- 

 gande) ; New York (Schmelter) ; Colebrook, Litchfield county, Conn. 



This species is evidently allied to L. curvispinosus , but is readily 

 distinguished by its dark coloration, strong epinotal spines, shining 

 head, etc. The specimens from which the above description was 

 drawn may be considerably darker than Rogers' types. In most of 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



my material the thorax of the worker is black, and the head rather 

 smooth so as to resemble the forms described by Emery from New York 

 and by Mayr from "\irginia. 



L. longispinosus appears to be confined to the Eastern United States. 

 At any rate I have not yet been able to find it in the Middle West or 

 among my material from the Western States. At Colebrook, Conn., 

 the workers of this species are often seen running over the leaves or 

 bushes in rather damp, shady places. The nests, containing the winged 

 females and males in August, were found in clefts of granite boulders 

 and in worm-eaten hickory nuts on the ground under the trees in the 

 woods. Some of the colonies were quite populous for Leptothorax colo- 

 nies, others very small. 



9. Leptothorax curvispinosus Mayr. 



L. curvispinosus Mayr, Sitz. B. k. Akad. Wiss. Wien, LIII, 1866, p. 508. ^ . 



Stetianima gallarum Patton, Am. Natural., 1879, p. 126. ^ ? . 



L. curvispinosus Mayr, Verhand. zool. bot. Ges. Wien, XXXVI, 1886, 



pp. 451 and 453. $ . 

 L. curvispinosi(s Dalla Torre, Catalog. Hymenopt., VII, 1893, p. 124. 

 L. ct(rrispi7iosus Emer}^ Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Svst., VIII, 1894, pp. 317 



and 320. 



Worker (PI. XII, fig. 10).— Length 2-2.5 mm. 



Mandibles 5-toothed. Clypeus moderately convex, with broadly 

 rounded anterior border, without median impression. Antennae 

 11-jointed, scape reaching to midway between the eye and the posterior 

 corner of the head; funiculus terminating in a distinct 3-jointed club; 

 first funicular joint nearly as long as the three succeeding joints 

 together; joints 2-7 about as long as wide; terminal joint little longer 

 than the two preceding joints of the club taken together. Thorax 

 but little broader in front above than below and behind; humeri 

 slightly angular; dorsum convex, without promesonotal and meso- 

 epinotal sutures and without a constriction at the latter region. Epi- 

 notal spines long and slender, tapering rather rapidly at their tips; 

 directed backward and shghtly upward, their tips incurved and 

 slightly converging. Petiole from above more than twice as long as 

 broad, distinctly narrower at the anterior peduncular end than behind ; 

 node in profile rather blunt, with longer and slightly concave anterior 

 slope and convex posterior slope; lower surface laterally compressed, 

 with a small but distinct downwardly directed tooth near the anterior 

 end. Postpetiole globose, about half again as broad as the petiole, 

 almost circular when seen from above. Gaster short, elliptical, with 

 small but distinct basal angles. 



Mandibles shining, with indistinct longitudinal striae. Clypeus 

 longitudinally rugose, even in the mitldle. Head opaque, co\ered 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



with fine longitudinal rugae separated by densely foveolate punctures. 

 Thorax opaque, coarsely and irregularly longitudinally rugose, except 

 just back of the neck where there are a few transverse rugse. The 

 rugae on different parts of the thorax are so fine that their trend is 

 hardly discernible except under a high magnification. Lower pleurae 

 foveolate-punctate. Petiole and postpetiole somewhat less roughly 

 sculptm'ed than the head and thorax ; both densely foveolate-punctate ; 

 punctures on the petiole somewhat coarser than on the postpetiole, 

 which therefore often appears smoother. Gaster and legs smooth 

 and shining. 



Hairs whitish, those on the head, thorax and pedicel shorter and 

 more clavate than those on the gaster. Hairs on the legs and antennae 

 short, non-clavate and appressed. 



YeUow; head, thorax and gaster tinged with brown; mandibles, legs, 

 antennae and venter pale, sometimes whitish; edges of mandibles 

 and a large triangular spot on either side of the first gastric segment, 

 black or dark-brown. In some specimens the femora are slightly 

 infuscated. 



Female (dealated). — Length 2.75-3.3 mm. 



Longitudinal rugae of the head more prominent than in the worker. 

 Pronotum coarsely reticulate-rugose. Mesonotum shining, especially 

 in front and in the parapsidal regions, longitudinally rugose, as are 

 also the paraptera and scutellum. Epinotmn with coarse, transverse 

 rugae, especial!}^ below the spines, which are shorter and stouter than 

 in the worker. Pleurae and sterna coarsety longitudinally rugose. 

 Sculpturing of the petiole and postpetiole like that of the worker but 

 more pronounced, so that these segments are quite opaque. Upper 

 surface of head, scutellum, posterior portion of epinotum, wing-inser- 

 tions, lower pleiurae, posterior portions of petiole and postpetiole, 

 a broad band across the first gastric segment and all except the borders 

 of the posterior gastric segments, dark-brown or black. 



Type locahty : ? District of Colmnbia. 



Additional localities: Virginia (Mayr); Beatty, Pa. (Schmitt); Bel- 

 mont, N. C. (Schmitt) ; Covington, Ky. (Schmitt) ; New York (Emery) ; 

 New Jersey (Emery). 



This species in its typical form appears to be confined to the Eastern 

 United States. Patton found small colonies of it nesting in the hollow 

 gaUs on the golden-rod (Solidago). Rev. P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B., who 

 has frequently taken the species in Pennsylvania, sends me the fol- 

 lowing note on its habits: "In one locality at least where curinspi- 

 nosus was abundant the colonies were in saplings of ash, the tops of 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



which had been eaten off by cattle and hollowed out, perhaps by some 

 larger insect than Leptothorax. At all events, when I visited these 

 colonies in autumn (I knew of their existence by watching foraging 

 workers going in and out of the nests) every colony had been dislodged 

 and dispossessed of its premises by a species of wasp which was busily 

 bringing in paralyzed spiders. The L. curvispi)wsus had then retired 

 to hollows in stumps or logs or dead branches lying on the ground." 

 This species is also of interest because it is enslaved by Tomognathus 

 americanus Emery, in the nests of which it has been found by Per- 

 gande. 



9a. Subsp. ambiguus Emery (PI. XII, fig. 11). 



L. curvispinosus IMayr subsp. atnbiguus Emeiy, Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Syst., 

 VIII, 1S94, p. 320. 



Differs from the typical curvispinosus in the somewhat coarser sculp- 

 turing and the decidedly shorter and nearly straight epinotal spines. 



Type localities: Hih City, S. Dak. (Pergande); Cleveland, 0. (Was- 

 mann) ; New York (Schmelter). 



A number of specimens collected at Colebrook, Conn., have the same 

 sculpturing as the typical curvispinosus but decidedly shorter epinotal 

 spines. These were found running on the surfaces of leaves in the 

 shade of verj^ damp woods. I failed to discover the nests. 



9b. Subsp. rugatulus Emery (PI. XII, fig. 12). 



L. rugatulus Emery, Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Syst., VIII, 1S94, p. 321. 



Owing to the existence of the next subspecies (annectcns), I feel justi- 

 fied in regarding Emery's L. rugatulus merely as a subspecies of 

 curvispinosus. The type specimens were from South Dakota (Per- 

 gande) and Colorado (Pergande). Specimens from Seattle, Wash. 

 (Kincaid), in my collection agree very closely with Emery's description. 

 They differ from the typical curvispinosus in the following characters: 

 The rugse of the head and thorax are decidedly coarser, and longitudi- 

 nal on the latter. Epinotal spines much shorter and hardly curved. 

 Tooth on the anterior ventral surface of the petiole distinctly larger, 

 blunter and directed downward and forward. Postpetiole broader 

 than long, oblong when seen from above, with rather distinct anterior 

 angles. In profile the upper surface of the postpetiole is almost angu- 

 lar, its ventral surface very short. Upper surface of head and gaster, 

 with the exception of the posterior edges of the segments of thejatter, 

 dark-brown. Femora more or less infuscated in some specimens. 

 9c. Var. Cockerelli var. nov. 



Worker. — Length 2-2. .5 mm. 



Differs from the typical rugatulus in having the head, thoraxand 

 10 " 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



petiole less opaque, owing to the rugse being further apart and the 

 smooth interrugal spaces more prominent. Epinotal spines shorter 

 and more acute. Postpetiole somewhat longer, being intermediate in 

 shape between that of the t\'pical curvispinosus and rugatulus, but 

 distinctly wider in front than behind, and with rounded but percep- 

 tible anterior angles. The coloration is also intermediate between the 

 forms just mentioned. Upper surface of head pale-brown and more 

 of the cheeks, sides and front of head yellow than in rugatulus, whereas 

 the infuscation of the gaster is limited to the posterior dorsal half or 

 two-thirds of the first segment, leaving the remaining segments yellow. 



Female (dealated). — Length 3-.3.0 mm. 



Whole body, with the exception of the legs and antennae, yellowish- 

 brown; head and gaster, with the exception of the base of its first 

 segment, darker. Antennae and legs more yellowish. Pedicel, espe- 

 cially the petiole, very rough, and surmounted by a more acute node 

 than in the worker. 



A fine living colony of this species, comprising more than a hundred 

 workers and eight females, was sent me by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell 

 from Las Vegas Hot Springs, X. ^L Fragments of bark accompany- 

 ing the ants showed that the nest was found in a tree trunk. 

 9d. Subsp. annectens subsp. nov. (PI. XII. fig. 13). 



Worker. — Length 2-2.5 mm. 



This form has the epinotal spines long and thin, and shaped like those 

 of the typical curvispinosus. Head very coarsely longitudinally rugose, 

 subopaque. Pronotum evenly and coarsely foveolate-punctate, meso- 

 and epinotum opaque, coarsely reticulate rugose, the rugse without a 

 longitudinal trend. Petiole and postpetiole opaque, shaped like those 

 of rugatulus, the former with a prominent ventral tooth, directed down- 

 ward and forward. Upper surface of head and whole dorsal surface of 

 gaster, except a large, transversely elliptical spot on the anterior 

 portion of the first segment and the extreme posterior edge of this and 

 the remaining segments, dark-brown or black. Remainder of body 

 brownish-yellow. 



Type locality : Boulder, Colo. 



Described from four specimens collected by Rev. P. J. Schmitt, 

 O.S.B. 



This form is clearly intermediate in structure and coloration be- 

 tween the typical curvispinosus and the subspecies rugotvlus. 

 10. Leptothorax Schmittii sp. nov. 



Worker (PI. XH, fig. 14).— Length 2-2.25 mm. 



Head conspicuously narrow, with parallel sides, decidedly longer 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



than broad, with straight posterior border. Mandibles 5-toothed. 

 Clypeus moderately convex, its anterior border with a small but dis- 

 tinct excision in the center and a distinct median carina extending 

 nearly its full length. Antennae 12-jointed; scape reaching the pos- 

 terior corner of the head ; first funicular joint as long as joints 2-4 to- 

 gether; second joint as long as broad ; joints 3-8 nearly as long as broad ; 

 club distinctly 3-jointed, first and second joints subequal, together a lit- 

 tle shorter than the terminal joint. Thorax rather long and narrow, 

 widest in front where the humeral angles are sharp and prominent. In 

 profile the pronotum rises very abruptly from the neck, so that a trans" 

 verse ridge is formed which gives the thorax a square-shouldere 

 appearance; dorsum flatly and evenly rounded, without mesoepinotal 

 constriction. Epinotal spines well-developed, longer than broad at 

 their bases, tapering and pointed, directed distinctly backward though 

 slightly upward and outward; in profile the ventral outline of the spines 

 is distinctly concave, the dorsal convex. They are about as long as 

 their distance apart at the base. Petiole about l^ times as long as 

 broad, distinctly broader behind than in front when seen from above; 

 in profile the height of the node is fully equal to the length of the whole 

 joint; its anterior surface is steep and somewhat concave, the top of 

 the node abruptly truncated, the posterior slope so steep that it is 

 even inclined forward below and forms somewhat less than a right 

 angle with the extreme posterior dorsal surface of the petiole; ventral 

 tooth well developed, directed downward. Postpetiole hardly twice 

 es broad as the petiole, distinctly broader than long; its anterior wider 

 than its posterior border, its anterior angles rather prominent. Gaster 

 of the usual shape. 



Mandibles not distinctly striated ; shining, with a few coarse punc- 

 tures. Clypeus shining, longitudinally rugose on the sides. Head 

 very smooth and shining, covered with rather coarse but sparse 

 piligerous punctures ; sides of frontal area, cheeks and subocular region 

 subopaque and delicately longitudinally rugose. Pro- and mesonotum 

 very smooth and shining, with a few piligerous punctures passing over 

 onto the pleurae into dehcate longitudinal rugae, which become much 

 coarser and distinctly reticulate on the sides and whole upper surface 

 of the epinotum. Petiole and postpetiole opaque, reticulate and 

 punctate-rugose. Gaster very smooth, shining. 



Hairs white, only moderately abundant ; clavate and erect on the 

 thorax and crown of head, somewhat longer and more reclinate on 

 the pedicel and gaster; the hairs on the sides of the head, antennae and 

 legs non-clavate, appressed; those on the clypeus thin and projecting. 




244 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Very dark-brown, almost black. Mandibles, neck, funiculus and 

 legs yellow; scape and club of antennae and the middle of the femora 

 and tibise infuscated; edges of mandibles black. 



T3rpe locality: Caiion City, Colo. 



Described from four specimens collected by Rev. P. J. Schmitt, 

 O.S.B., to whom I take pleasure in dedicating this very striking species. 

 It is quite unlike any of the other described North American forms 

 in the shape of the thorax and petiole and the smoothness of the head, 

 pro- and mesonotum. 



11. Leptothorax nitens Emery. 



L. nitens Emery, Zaol. Jahrb. Abth. f. Syst., VIII, 1894, pp. 318, 322, 323. 

 Worker (PI. XII, fig. 15).— Length 2-2.25 mm. 

 Mandibles 5-toothed; basal teeth very small. Clypeus moderately 

 convex, impressed in the middle and wdth sinuately excised anterior 

 border. Antennae 12-jointed ; scape reaching to | the distance between 

 the eye and the posterior angle of the head ; funiculus terminating in a 

 distinctly 3-jointed club, the two basal joints of which are subequalin 

 length, together decidedly shorter than the terminal joint ; first funicular 

 joint as long as the three succeeding joints together, joints 2-7 of the 

 funiculus slightly broader than long, the 8th about as long as broad. 

 Thorax slender, somewhat broader in front than behind ; compressed 

 laterally, pronotum rather prominent and square in front, humeri 

 rounded ; in profile the dorsal surface is somewhat flattened and with- 

 out mesoepinotal constriction. Epinotal spines very small, tooth- 

 like, hardly as long as broad at their bases, directed upward, about as 

 far apart as they are broad at their bases. Petiole about H times as 

 long as broad, gradually "^ddened behind when seen from above; in 

 profile the node is very high, its anterior slope steep and concave, its 

 summit very short and rounded, the posterior slope abrupt, the ven- 

 tral tooth is distinct and pointed forward and downw^ard. Petiole 

 nodiform, a little broader than long, half again as broad as the petiole, 

 its anterior angles much rounded. Gaster of the usual shape. 



Mandibles smooth and shining, indistinctly striated and punctate. 

 Clypeus smooth and shining, ^dth a few longitudinal rugae on its antero- 

 lateral surfaces. Head very smooth and shining, minutely and sparsely 

 punctate; sides of front, antennal foveae and cheeks longitudinal rugu- 

 lose. Thorax, petiole and postpetiole opaque, finely and regularly 

 foveolate-reticulate. In some specimens more or less of the pro- and 

 mesonotum is shining , Pleurae faintly striated longitudinally. Gaster 

 very smooth and shining. 



Hairs moderately abundant, yellow ; clavate on crown of head. thorax 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



and abdomen ; erect and shorter on head and thorax ; longer and sUghtly 

 rechnate on the pedicel and gaster; hairs on sides of head, legs and an- 

 tennae minute, non-clavate, appressed. 



Yellow, in some specimens crown of head, antennal club and dorsum 

 of gaster slightly infuscated. 



Type locahty: American Fork Caiion, Utah (Pergande). 



Additional locahties: Pacific Grove, Cal. (Dr. H. Heath); Canon 

 City, Colo. (Rev. P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B.). 



Emery described the species from a single specimen in which the 

 thorax was shining. Examination of a number of Cahfornia and 

 Colorado specimens from the same nests shows this to be a common 

 but by no means constant character ; in a great many individuals the 

 thorax is uniformly opaque throughout. 



One of the colonies sent me by Dr. Heath was found in the ground, 

 hibernating in a Termite burrow. 



lla. Var. Heathii var. nov. 



Worker. — Differs from the preceding in the coloration, which is 

 constant in a whole colony sent me by Dr. Harold Heath from Pacific 

 Grove, Cal. The body is brown, often rather dark, the legs and an- 

 tennae brownish-white without the distinct yellow cast of the typical 

 form. 



Found nesting in the ground under a stone. 



lib. Subsp. occidentalis subsp. nov. 



Worker. — This form combines the color characters of the type and 

 the preceding variety. The ground color is yellow, the upper surface 

 of the head, thorax and pedicel brown; the first gastric segment with 

 a broad, brown dorsal band across its posterior half or two-thirds. 

 Thorax and pedicel decidedly opaque. Antennal scape nearly reach- 

 ing the posterior angle of the head, epinotal spines decidedly more 

 robust than in the typical nitens and the var. Heathii. 



Type locahty: Friday Harbor, Wash. 



Described from six specimens received from Prof. Trevor Kincaid. 



12. Leptothorax texanus sp. nov. 



Worker (PI. XII, fig. 16).— Length 2.25-2.75 mm. 



Head longer than broad. Eyes rather large. Mandibles 5-toothed. 

 Clypeus moderately convex, its anterior border somewhat rounded. 

 Antennae 12-jointed; scape reaching nearly to the posterior angle 

 of the head ; funiculus terminating in a very distinct 3-jointed 

 club, the last joint of which is somewhat longer than the two 

 preceding joints; first funicular joint nearly as long as joints 2-5; 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



second funicular joint about as long as broad, the remaining joints 

 broader than long. Thorax rather short, its humeral angles rounded, 

 dorsum evenly and shghtly rounded, without mesoepinotal constriction. 

 Epinotal spines moderate, distinctly shorter than the declivous sur- 

 face of the epinotum, scarcely as long as their distance apart at the 

 base, rapidly tapering, acute, directed upward, outward and backward, 

 their tips slightly deflected. Petiole from above fully H times as 

 long as broad; its sides somewhat convex, so that its outline is sub- 

 elliptical; in profile the anterior slope is abrupt and distinctly concave, 

 the summit of the node flattened, and the posterior slope suddenly 

 declivous; ventral tooth small, acute, directed downward. Post- 

 petiole very large, fully twice as broad as the petiole; broader than 

 long, its anterior and posterior angles rounded, so that it appears 

 transversely elliptical from above; in profile it is very convex, espe- 

 cially in front. Gaster elliptical, depressed, without distinct anterior 

 angles. 



Mandibles coarsely striated. Clypeus traversed by several clean-cut 

 longitudinal rugae, subsiding on the posterior portion which is smooth 

 and shining. Head subopaque, coarsely reticulate-rugose; the rugae 

 distinctly longitudinal only on the front and vertex ; interrugal spaces 

 secondarily reticulate. Neck evenly reticulate ; thoracic dorsum very 

 coarsely and irregularly reticulate-rugose; the spaces between the 

 rugae smooth and shining, because the secondary reticulation is indis- 

 tinct or lacking. Pleurae somewhat more delicately and evenly rugose. 

 Petiole and postpetiole coarsely reticulate-rugose, interrugal spaces 

 filled ^\■ith shallow foveolae or secondary reticulation. Gaster smooth 

 and shining. 



Hairs white, rather numerous and prominent; on the trunk clavate; 

 shorter and more erect on the head and thorax, longer and shghtly 

 rechnate on the pedicel and gaster ; on the legs and antennae distinct, 

 non-clavate, more or less appressed. 



Black or very dark-brown, especiaUy on the head, thorax and petiole. 

 Mandibles, excepting the teeth, funiculus, tips of epinotal spines, tarsi 

 and articulations of legs, excepting the last tarsal joint, yellow; an- 

 tennal scape brown. 



Female. — Length 3,75-4 mm. 



Head more decidedly and extensively longitudinaUy rugose than 

 in the worker. Neck delicately, pronotum more coarsely reticulate- 

 rugose ; mesonotum and paraptera traversed by numerous longitudinal 

 rugae w^hich are more or less interrupted and have a tendency to anas- 

 tomose. Scutellum with such rugae only in front and on the sides, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



posteriorly it is nearly smooth and shining. Pleura? and epinotum 

 with rather coarse, distinctly longitudinal rugse. Epinotal spines small, 

 acute, straight. Petiole with pointed node and more abruptly decliv- 

 ous posterior slope than in the worker, its dorsal surface scarcely 

 flattened. Postpetiole very convex in front above. Sculpturing of 

 petiole and postpetiole as in the worker. Color of head, thorax and 

 pedicel reddish-brown, darker on the dorsal surface. Gaster black. 

 Pilosity of body and legs and color of the latter much as in the worker. 

 Wings whitish-hyaline; veins and stigma yellow. 



Male. — Length 2-2.5 mm. 



Head exclusive of the mandibles broader than long, cheeks short, 

 posterior angles convex and rounded. Mandibles overlapping each 

 other. Antennae 13-jointed; scape as long as the first four joints of 

 the funiculus, club very distinct, 4-jointed, the first, second and third 

 subequal, full}- H times as long as broad, apical joint as long as the 

 second and third together; first funicular joint somewhat swollen, 

 fully Ih times as long as broad; joints 2-S longer than broad. Epino- 

 tum with two very small, indistinct protuberances in the place of the 

 spines. Petiole slender, in profile concave below; anterior dorsal 

 slope nearly straight, gradual, posterior slope shorter, abruptly de- 

 clivous, rather concave. Postpetiole campanulate, about as long as 

 broad; Ih times as broad as the petiole. Legs long and slender. 



Mandibles striated. Clj^peus coarsely and irregularly reticulate- 

 rugose, shining. Head subopaque, evenly and rather delicately reticu- 

 late-rugose. Neck finely reticulate; mesonotum shining, with a faint 

 reproduction of the irregular rugosity of the worker; remainder of 

 thorax and the pedicel delicately reticulate-punctate. Gaster smooth 

 and shining. 



Hairs white, non-clavate, long and moderately abundant on the 

 mandibles, pedicel and gaster; sparser elsewhere. 



Black; mandibles and genitalia yellow; antenna! funiculus grayish- 

 brown; wings like those of female; legs like those of the worker in color. 



Type locality: Milano, Millan County, Tex. 



All three sexual phases of this species were taken ]\Iay 23, 1902, in 

 nests consisting of a few small galleries, 3-4 inches long, excavated in 

 the sand in rather damp spots under post-oaks and cedars. 



13. Leptothorax tricarinatus Emery. 



L. tricarinatus Emery, Zool. Jahrb. Al)th. f. Svst., VIII, 1S94, pp. 318, 

 321, 322. ?. ' 



Worker (PI. XII, fig. 17).— Length 2.25 mm. 



Clypeus produced in front in the middle, obtusely angulate, above 




24S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



with three slender longitudinal carinse. Antennse 12-jointed, first 

 funicular joint longer than the three succeeding joints together; 

 remaining joints shorter than broad; two basal joints of club subequal. 

 Thorax not impressed at the mesoepinotal sutm'e. Epinotal spines 

 short, rather acute, obliquely erect. Petiole thickened behind, node 

 subcorneal, obtuse. Postpetiole much larger than the petiole, sub- 

 globose. 



^landibles striated. Clypeus shining. Head, thorax and pe tiole 

 subopaque, punctate and finely rugose, pronotum more shining in the 

 middle. 



Hairs on the body clavate, on the legs and antennal scape non- 

 clavate and sparse. 



Fuscous black; mandibles, articulations of legs and the tarsi reddish. 



Type locahty: Hill City, S. Dak. (Pergande). 



Described from a single specimen in the collection of Prof. C. Emery. 

 14. Leptothorax neomexicanus sp. nov. 



Worker (PI. XII, fig. 18).— Length 2.25-2.5 mm. 



Head longer than broad. Mandibles 5-toothed. Clypeus mod- 

 erately convex, broadly rounded in front, not impressed. Antennse 

 slender, 12-jointed; scape extending to a distance equal to its own 

 breadth bej'ond the posterior angle of the head ; funiculus terminating 

 in a .3-jointed club, the two basal joints of wliich are subequal and 

 together shorter than the terminal joint; first funicular joint as long as 

 the three succeeding joints together; joints 2-8 of the funiculus as 

 long as broad. Thorax not much broader in front and above than 

 behind and below; humeral angles rounded; dorsal surface flattened, 

 without mesoepinotal suture or constriction. Epinotal spines short, 

 robust, Ijlunt, not longer than broad at their bases and nearly twice as 

 far apart at their bases as long. They are directed obliquely upward, 

 outward and backward. Petiole hardly 1^- times as long as broad; 

 distinctly -vNider behind than in front, sides somewhat convex ; in profile 

 the node is nearly as high as the length of the petiole, its anterior slope 

 steep, slightly concave; the summit somewhat truncated, passing 

 abruptly into the angular posterior decli\ity; ventral surface in front 

 with a prominent tooth, directed downward and forward. Postpetiole 

 nearly twice as broad as the petiole; nearly as long as broad, sub- 

 globular, its anterior dorsal surface in profile abruptly convex, the 

 posterior dorsal surface more flattened. Gaster of the usual shape 

 with slight basal angles. 



Mandibles coarsely striated and punctate. Clypeus longitudinally 

 rugose, especially on the sides, behind without rugfe, smooth and 




1903.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



shining, somewhat foveolate-punctate. Head siibopac[ue except along 

 a broad median strip, extending from the frontal area to the occiput, 

 and on the posterior angles. These regions are smooth and shining. 

 Cheeks and sides of head rather delicately and longitudinally reticu- 

 late-rugose. On the front and vertex there are also a few rather large 

 indentations at widely separated intervals. Thorax nearly opaque, 

 in front delicately and evenly reticulate-rugose; on the epinotum and 

 pleurie the rugse are coarser and have a distinctly longitudinal trend. 

 Petiole and postpetiole nearly opaque, finely reticulate-rugose. Gaster 

 very smooth and shining. 



Hairs rather sparse, silvery- white ; those on the body subclavate, 

 shorter and more erect on the head and thorax, longer and more 

 reclinate on the pedicel and gaster. Hairs on the legs and antennae 

 short, non-clavate, appressed. 



Black. In some specimens the pedicel and thorax are dark-brown. 

 Scape and funiculus of antennae brown. Mandibles yellow, with black 

 teeth. Legs yellow, middle portion of the femora and tibiae and 

 terminal tarsal joint on each foot, black. 



Type locality: Manzanares, X. M. 



Described from five specimens taken by Miss Mary Cooper. The 

 species is obviously closely related to L. tricarinatus Emery, and 

 may prove to be merely a subspecies of this form. To judge from 

 Emery's description, the head of tricarinatus is more opaque, the 

 mesonotum shining, the first funicular joint larger than the three suc- 

 ceeding joints, the remaining joints of the funiculus shorter than broad. 

 Apparently, also, the postpetiole is considerably larger than in neo- 

 mexicanus. 



15. Leptothorax obturator sp. nov. 



Worker (PI. XII, fig. 19).— Length 2.2.5-2.75 mm. 



^ilandibles 5-toothed. Clypeus rather flat, its anterior margin 

 broadly truncated in the middle. Antennae 12-jointed; scape reaching 

 posterior angle of head; first funicular joint as long as the three suc- 

 ceeding joints; joints 3-S broader than long, joints 9-11 forming a 

 club, the ninth distinctly narrower and shorter than the tenth, the 

 terminal joint longer and considerably thicker than the two preceding 

 joints. Thorax slender, somewhat broader in front than behind; 

 rounded at the humeri, in profile convex in front and slightly concave 

 behind on the dorsal surface, without mesoepinotal constriction. 

 Epinotal spines small, rather acute, not longer than broad at their 

 bases, nor further apart than long, directed upward. In front and 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



on the side of each epinotal spine there is a distinct longitudinal swell- 

 ing or ridge on the epi-notnm. Petiole very slender, three times as 

 long as broad, sides of the node parallel, the peduncle somewhat nar- 

 rower when seen from above; in profile the lower surface is evenly 

 concave, the anterior tooth minute; the dorsal surface with a low 

 regularly rounded, knoll-like node. Postpetiole small, about H 

 times as broad as the petiole, as broad as long, square when seen from 

 above, with prominent anterior angles; in profile the lower surface is 

 flattened, the upper convex, especially in front. Gaster with distinct 

 anterior angles. Sting well developed. 



Mandibles opacpie. striated and with a few coarse punctures. Cly- 

 peus subopacjue, its whole surface longitudinally rugose. Head sub- 

 opaque in front and on the sides, shining behind, on the former regions 

 densely and rather finely reticulate-rugose; the rugse with a distinct 

 longitudinal trend except on an opaque patch above each eye, where 

 the rugse are evenly reticulate. The shining portion of the head is 

 traversed by clean-cut longitudinal rugae much farther apart than on 

 the front and crown and interspersed with a few coarse punctures; 

 posterior angles of head delicately reticulate. Thorax subopaque; 

 pronotal region more shining, foveolate-reticulate on the whole dorsal 

 surface; pleurae more coarsely reticulate-rugose, with ' pronounced 

 longitudinal trend in a few of the rugse, especially in the upper meso- 

 and lower metapleurse. Petiole and postpetiole subopaque, rather 

 evenly foveolate-reticulate. Gaster smooth and shining. 



Hairs moderately abundant, snow-white; clavate on the crown of 

 the head, thorax, pedicel and gaster; a little longer on the pedicel and 

 gaster and somewhat more reclinate. Hairs on the legs and antennse 

 sparse, non-clavate, appressed and inconspicuous. 



Black or very dark-brown. Mandibles, joints 3-9 of the antennse, 

 neck, ventral surface of petiole and postpetiole reddish-yellow. I>egs 

 reddish-yellow, except the middle of the coxse, femora, tibia? and last 

 tarsal joint, which are black. 



Female. — Length 3.0-.3.75 mm. 



Clypeus and head more coarsely longitudinally rugose and more 

 opaque than in the worker. Thorax subopaque; neck delicately 

 reticulate-rugose; pronotum transversely and irregularly rugose; meso- 

 notum, paraptera and scutellmn traversed by dense, parallel, clean-cut, 

 longitudinal rugse. Epinotum delicately and somewhat concentrically 

 reticulate-rugose; armed with two inconspicuous swellings in the place 

 of the spines; pleurse longitudinally rugose. Petiole and postpetiole 

 like those of the worker, the node of the former relatively lower; post- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



petiole hardly 1 J times as broad as the petiole. The white hairs on the 

 body are non-clavate, though those on the pedicel and gaster are 

 somewhat thickened. Head, thorax and pedicel yellowish-red or 

 dark-red, their upper surfaces more or less infuscated. Gaster black. 

 Antennal scape black with basal half yellow; first joint of funiculus and 

 club black, remaining joints yellow. Legs colored like those of the 

 worker. Wings milky-white, veins yellow ; stigma brown, conspicuous. 



Male. — Length 1.5-2 mm. 



Head as long as broad, exclusive of the mandibles ; cheeks very short. 

 Mandibles meeting with their tips. Clypeus convex, truncated in 

 front. Antennse slender; 13-jointed; scape nearly as long as the first 

 five joints of the flagellum; first flagellar joint thickened, nearly as 

 long as the three following joints together; joints 2-8 of the flagellum 

 cjdindrical, as long as broad; the four terminal joints forming a club, 

 of which the three basal joints are subequal in length but increase 

 somewhat in thickness distally; terminal joint much larger, distinctly 

 longer than the two preceding joints. Epinotum with two very in- 

 conspicuous thickenings in the place of the spines. Petiole and post- 

 petiole similar in shape to the corresponding segments of the worker, 

 node of former very low. 



Clypeus shining, with a few reticulate rugae forming rather large 

 meshes. Head, thorax and pedicel opaque, finely and evenly reticu- 

 late-rugose. Mesonotum sparsely foveolate-punctate and traversed 

 by a narrow, smooth, longitudinal stripe. Pleurae shining in part. 

 Gaster smooth and shining. 



Hairs white, sparse, non-clavate, most abundant on the thoracic 

 dorsum, pedicel and gaster. 



Black; pleurae and pedicel more piceous. Mandibles, legs and 

 antennae white; the mandibles with brown edges, the antennae with 

 scape, second joint and club blackened; legs with the coxae, middle of 

 the femora and tibiae and the last tarsal joint blackened. 



Type locality: Austin, Tex. 



Described from many specimens collected at different times from 

 the abandoned Holcaspis cinerosus galls on the live-oaks (Q. vir- 

 giniana). The young fertilized queen, on entering the gall to estab- 

 lish her colony, gnaws minute fragments from the ligneous wall, mixes 

 these with some secretion (saliva?) and completely plugs up the round 

 opening through which the Holcaspis escaped and she herself has 

 entered. Later when the first batch of tiny workers appear, they per- 

 forate the center of the plug with a small opening like a pin-prick, and 

 just large enough for egress and ingress. This opening is too small for 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the queen to pass, so that she remains miprisoned. With the growth 

 of the colony the chamber formerly made and inhabited bj' the Hol- 

 caspis larva is enlarged by the workers. The queen with the larvae 

 prefers to inhabit the small central capsule in which the Holcaspis 

 passed its pupal life. The larvse are of a peculiar greenish tint. The 

 males and virgin females make their appearance in the colony during 

 the last week of May. At no time are the colonies of L. obturator very 

 large. They rareh^ comprise more than 36 or 40 workers. Members 

 of different colonies, even from galls on the same branch, are extremely 

 hostile to one another. Along the creek-bottoms near Austin, L. 

 obturator is also occasionally found nesting in the twigs of the wafer- 

 ash (Ptelea trifoliata) which have been hollowed out by tiny carpen- 

 ter-bees {Ceratina nanula Ckll. and C. arizonensis CklL). The 

 relatively large entrance made by the bees at the end of the twig is 

 plugged up by the ants with agglutinated vegetable particles and 

 then perforated with a minute opening in the center. 

 16, Leptothorax nevadensis sp. nov. 



Worker (PI. XII, fig. 20).— Length 2.5-3 mm. 



Mandibles 5-toothed. Clypeus 'depressed in the middle, its an- 

 terior margin sinuately excised. Antennae 12-jointed, scape reaching 

 to posterior corner of the head, first funicular joint as long as joints 

 2-4 together, joints 2-6 slightly broader than long, joints 7 and 8 as 

 long as broad; two basal joints of club subequal, together shorter than' 

 the terminal joint. Thorax above in front of about the same width 

 as below and behind; humeri much rounded, dorsum flattened in pro- 

 file, without mesoepinotal constriction. Epinotal spines robust, 

 pointed, decidedly longer than broad at their bases, and nearer together 

 at their bases than long, directed upward, outward and backward. 

 Petiole 1| times as long as broad, sides of node rounded, broader than 

 the peduncle; seen from above the node is transverse, in profile it is 

 narrow antero-posteriorly, its anterior slope gently ascending, concave, 

 its posterior slope more abrupt, also concave, simimit rounded; ventral 

 surface of petiole with a prominent, compressed, downwardly directed 

 tooth. Postpetiole in profile with a prominent, sometimes sHghtly 

 angular node; the segment seen from above is transversely elliptical, 

 about haK again as broad as long, its anterior angles romided. Cas- 

 ter and legs of the usual conformation. 



Mandibles striate and punctate. Clypeus subopaque, its surface, 

 especially at the sides, traversed b}^ rather coarse longitudinal rugae. 

 Head with a satiny luster, sparsely punctate and with delicate longi- 

 tudinal rugae, which become decidedly reticulate in the antennal 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



fovese. Thorax subopaque, its dorsal surface irregularly reticulate- 

 rugose and foveolate, pleurae, petiole and postpetiole regularly foveo- 

 late-punctate ; posterior epinotal decli\dty rather coarsely longitudi- 

 nally rugose. Gaster smooth and shining. 



Hairs yellow, not very abundant; clavate on thorax, pedicel and 

 crown of head ; short and erect on head and thorax, longer and some- 

 what reclinate on the pedicel and gaster. Hairs on antennae, legs and 

 sides of head less conspicuous and appressed, except on the antennae, 

 where they are suberect. 



Rather dark reddish-broAvn, ventral portions of head, thorax and 

 pedicel and the incisures of the gastric segments, yellowish. Legs and 

 antennae yellowish, middle of femora and the antennal club dark- 

 brown. Immature specimens have the thorax and pedicel more 

 extensively yellow. 



Female (deiilated). — Length 4.5 mm. 



Mandibles densely striated and somewhat punctate. Clypeus with 

 coarse longitudinal rugae, one of which forms a distinct carina in the 

 ixdddle of the sclerite. Frontal area opaque. Head with coarse and 

 very regular longitudinal rugae, but little diverging behind and but 

 slightly reticulate. On the upper surface of the head there are also a 

 number of shallow but distinct foveolae in the interrugal furrows. 

 Pronotum and pleurae coarsely longitudinally rugose; mesonotum 

 shining, sparsely foveolate and rather indistinctly longitudinally 

 rugose, especially in front. Scutellum and paraptera like the meso- 

 notum, the former with indications of rugae only at its anterior border. 

 Whole epinotum subopaque, coarsely rugose, even over the entire 

 surface of the robust, pointed spines, which are as long as they are 

 broad at their bases. Declivous surface of epinotum regularly trans- 

 versely rugose. Petiole and postpetiole opaque, reticulate and punc- 

 tate-rugose, more coarsely on the sides than on the summits of the 

 nodes; petiolar node in profile more acute than in the worker. Gaster 

 very glabrous. Head, thorax and pedicel rich reddish-brown; gaster 

 decidedly darker. Legs and antennae yellow. In the latter all the 

 joints of the funiculus are distinctly longer than broad, and the club, 

 which is not infuscated, is indistinct. Wing-insertions black, Hairs 

 on the body sparse, yellow, not clavate hke those of the worker, but 

 more or less tapering. 



Male. — Length 2.5-3 mm. 



Mandibles dentate, overlapping with their blades. Clypeus convex, 

 truncated in the middle in front. Antennae 13-jointed; scape slender, 

 as long as joints 1-5 of the funiculus. First funicular joint fully twice 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.. 



as long as broad, much stouter than the succeeding joints, except 

 those of the 4-jointed club; joints 3-7 longer than broad; three basal 

 joints of club subequal, each not more than half as long as the terminal 

 joint. Cheeks short. Thorax with very deep Mayrian and other 

 sutures. Epinotum without indications of spines. Petiole and post- 

 petiole longer and with lower nodes than in the worker. Gaster of the 

 usual shape. 



Mandibles and clypeus somewhat shining, the latter with a few 

 prominent and irregular longitudinal rugse. Head decidedly opaque, 

 uniformly and densely punctate. Thorax sliining, mesonotum, scu- 

 tellum and pleurae with faint, parallel, longitudinal strise. Pronotmn 

 and epinotum more reticulate-rugose. Petiole and postpetiole smooth 

 and shining on the summits of the nodes, elsewhere subopaque, finely 

 reticulate-rugose. Gaster smooth and shining. 



Hairs covering the body sparse, whitish, non-clavate, longest and 

 most conspicuous on the gaster, very small and appressed on the legs 

 and antennae. 



Black, thorax and pedicel more piceous. especially on their lateral 

 and ventral surfaces. The following parts are yellowish, or yellow 

 suffused with piceous: mandibles, except their teeth, which are black, 

 antennae, legs and genitalia. Wings whitish-hyaline, veins and stigma 

 colorless. 



Type locality: King's Canon, Ormsby county, Nev. 



Described from eight workers, one female and eight males, found by 

 Mr. C. F. Baker during August, 1902, nesting in the ground under a 

 stone. 



This species appears to be similar to L. tricarinatus Emery, but differs 

 in the shape of the clypeus, which is impressed and sinuately excised 

 and not produced, and in the shape of the epinotal spines, petiole, etc. 

 17. Leptothorax terrigena sp. nov. 



Worker (Pi. XII, fig. 21).— Length 1.. 5-1. 75 mm. 



Head rather narrow, with parallel sides. Mandibles 5-toothed. 

 ClypeiLS moderately convex, without median impression and with 

 broadly rounded, non-sinuate anterior border. Antennae 12-jointed, 

 scape extending to f the distance between the eye and the posterior 

 corner of the head; first funicular joint as long as the three succeeding 

 joints together; joints 2-8 of funiculus decidedly broader than long, 

 subequal ; three terminal joints forming a distinct club, of which the two 

 basal joints are subequal in length but not in thickness, and together 

 shorter than the terminal joint. Thorax slender, somewhat broader 

 in front than behind, with rounded humeral angles and moderately 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2t)5 



elevated anterior pronotal border. Pleurse compressed; dorsum flat- 

 tened and without mesoepinotal constrictions. Epinotal spines small, 

 conical, distinctly longer and further apart than broad at their bases. 

 Petiole short, hardly 1+ times as long as broad, sides of node convex 

 when seen from above and much broader than the peduncle ; in profile 

 the node is high and very thick with an evenly rounded summit, very 

 steep and concave anterior, and very abrupt posterior declivity; ven- 

 tral tooth rather large, blunt. Postpetiole twice as broad as the petiole, 

 distincth^ broader than long, transversely elliptical from above, with 

 rounded anterior angles. Gaster of the usual shape. 



Mandibles and clypeus subopaque, the former longitudinally striated 

 and with a few coarse punctures, the latter longitudinally rugose. 

 Head opaque throughout, evenly and densely punctate except along 

 the sides of the frontal region, where there are a few delicate longi- 

 tudinal rugoe. Thorax, petiole and postpetiole opaque, densely 

 punctate. Gaster smooth and shining. 



Hairs white, moderately numerous, clavate on crown of head, 

 thorax and abdomen ; erect on head and thorax, more reclinate on the 

 pedicel and gaster; minute, inconspicuous and appressed on the an- 

 tennae and legs. 



Whole body, even the anterior portion of the gaster, golden-yellow, 

 except the antennal club which is blackened. 



Female (dealated). — Length 2.5 mm. 



Head opaque, densely punctate; cheeks and whole preocellar region 

 irregularly longitudinally rugulose, the postocellar region and posterior 

 angles more reticulate. Thorax opaque, densely punctate ; mesonotum 

 and scutellum with very faint, parallel, longitudinal rugae. Epinotal 

 spines very short and stout, regularly conical, not as far apart as they 

 are broad at the base. Petiole and postpetiole like those of the worker, 

 but the latter segment fully twdce as broad as long. Both segments of 

 the pedicel densely punctate, opaque, except the dorsal surfaces of 

 the nodes which are somewhat smooth and shining. Body brownish- 

 yellow% legs pale-yellow. Antennal club, wing-insertions, sides and 

 posterior border of first gastric segment, a broad transverse band on 

 the second gastric segment and the tip of the gaster, dark-brown. 

 Pilosity like that of the w^orker. 



Type locality: Austin and McNeil (Travis county), Tex. 



This small species lives in and on the ground. At Austin I have 

 occasionally seen a few workers running about on the dry gravelly 

 hill-slopes exposed to the sun. At McNeil I took a few dozen workers 

 and a dealated queen, which were inhabiting a small spherical chan:ber 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



in the "black waxy" soil under the center of a large flat stone. Two 

 other nests taken at Austin exhibited a tendency toward plesiobiosis. 

 One of these was found in the vegetable debris at the very entrance 

 of the nest of a timid fungus-growing ant {Trachymyrmex turrijex 

 Wheeler), the other under a stone at the very edge of a flourishing 

 colony of Pheidole instabilis Emer3^ 



L. terrigena is undoubtedly closely allied to L. Andrei Emery, which 

 I have not seen. The worker differs, however, in its decidedly smaller 

 size, shape of petiole and postpetiole, its larger and stouter epinotal 

 spines, the absence of a clypeal sinuosity, a sliining longitudinal band 

 on the front and vertex, and the absence of infuscation on the abdomen, 

 although the last character is clearly present in the female. 



18. Leptothorax Andrei Emery. 



L. Andrei Emery, Morph. Jahrb. Abth. f. Syst., VIII, 1894, pp. 31S, 322. 



Worker (PL XII, fig. 22).— Length 2.25 mm. 



Clypeus feebly carinate in the middle, its anterior border subsinuate. 

 Antennse 12-jointed; first funicular joint a little shorter than the three 

 succeeding joints; second joint of club a little longer than the preceding 

 joint. Thoracic dorsum without a mesoepinotal constriction. Epi- 

 notal spines in the form of short, stout teeth. Petiole with a rather 

 long peduncle, its node above subrotund. Postpetiole about a third 

 broader than the petiole, a little broader than long. 



Mandibles striated. Head opaque, longitudinally rugulose-punc- 

 tate; cheeks and clypeus striated, the latter and a median line along the 

 front and vertex shining. Thorax and pedicel opaque; the former 

 densely, the latter more faintly punctate. Gaster and legs shining. 



Hairs on the body sparse, short and clavate. 



Testaceous, abdomen darker behind, legs pale. 



Type locaUty: California (Andre). 



The species was described from a single specimen in the collection of 

 ■Prof. Emery. 



19. Leptothorax (Dichothorax) Pergandei Emery. 



L. (D.) Pergandei Emerv, Zool. Jahrb. Abth. f. Svst., VIII, 1894, pp. 318-323, 

 324. ^ . 



Worker (PL XII, figs. 23 and 23a).— Length 2.5-3.25 mm. 



Mandibles rather broad, 5-toothed. Clypeus moderately convex, 

 broadly rounded in front, with a distinct median carina. Antennae 

 12-jointed, scape extending beyond the posterior angle of the head a 

 distance fuUy equal to twice its breadth; first funicular joint as long 

 as the three succeeding joints together; joints 3-8 nearly as long as 

 broad; club 3-jointed, the two basal joints subequal, together shorter 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



than the terminal joint. Thorax long, rather robust, not much wider 

 in front than behind, without abrupt dechvity at the juncture of the 

 neck and pronotum, pro- and mesonotum convex; mesoepinotal con- 

 striction very deep and broad. Epinotal spines small, not longer than 

 broad at the base, directed upward. Petiole from above nearly three 

 times as long as its greatest width which is in the middle ; in profile the 

 node is low and rounded above, the anterior slope very long, at first 

 nearly horizontal, then gradually ascending, the posterior slope shorter, 

 somewhat flattened; summit of node distinctly impressed or concave 

 when seen from behind; ventral surface of peduncle with a long but 

 not very prominent tooth. Postpetiole fully half again as broad as 

 the petiole, a little broader than long, nearly square, its anterior angles 

 prominent, its dorsal surface in profile very convex, especially in front. 

 Gaster rather large, of the usual shape. Sting well developed. Legs 

 robust. 



Mandibles longitudinally striated. Clypeus smooth, especially be- 

 hind, its sides longitudinally rugose. Head smooth and shining above 

 and behind, sparsely punctate and irregularl}- and delicately reticulate. 

 Antennal fovese with curved, parallel rvigse; front and cheeks with 

 straight rugse. Neck opaque and delicately rugose; pro- and meso- 

 notum shining, very finely and irregularljM'eticulate, pleurae, epinotum 

 and mesoepinotal constriction subopaque, coarsely reticulate-rugose; 

 in the constriction and on the meso- and metapleurse the ruga have a 

 distinctly longitudinal trend. Declivous surface of epinotum smooth 

 and shining. Petiole and postpetiole shining and finely reticulate 

 above, more opaque and reticulate-rugose on the sides. Gaster 

 smooth and shining, finely and irregularly reticulate. 



Hairs white, long and very abundant, obtuse but not clavate, erect 

 on the trunk, suberect on the legs and antennae. 



Black or rich dark-brown, mandibles, antennae, except the club, 

 frontal carinae, thorax, pedicel and legs yellowish-red or testaceous. In 

 some specimens the dorsal surface of the thorax and nodes is blackened, 

 while in others the whole of the thorax, nodes and legs is black except 

 the peduncle of the petiole and the tarsi and joints of the legs, which 

 are yellow. 



Female. — Length 3.5-4 mm. 



Apart from the usual sexual characters, differs from the worker 

 in having the lower surfaces of the head, thorax, pedicel and the legs 

 more yellowish. The smooth surfaces of the body are hardly reticulate. 

 Mesonotum adorned with a median brown blotch on its anterior half 

 and a large comma-shaped spot on cither parapsis. Scutellum, epi- 

 17 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Feb., 



notiim and pleurse more or less spotted with brown, and a small black 

 spot at the insertion of the fore\Nang. Femora and tibiae infuscated 

 in the middle. Antennal club infuscated. Wings milky-hyaUne, with 

 colorless veins and stigma. Concavity at summit of petiolar node very 

 distinct; postpetiole nearly twice as broad as long. Epinotal spines 

 distinctly shorter than broad at their bases. 



Male. — Length 2-2.25 mm. 



Head a little longer than broad ; cheeks very short, eyes and ocelli 

 prominent. Mandibles overlapping, 4-toothed. Clypeus convex. 

 Antennse 13-jointed, scape about as long as the five succeeding joints, 

 first funicular joint about as long as the second and third together; 

 joints 3-8 slender, cyhndrical, subequal, twice as long as broad; 

 club 4-jointed, the three basal joints subequal, together as long as the 

 terminal joint. Thorax long, mesonotum rounded, projecting forward, 

 so that the head is scarcely visible when the insect is viewed from 

 above. Epinotum with a pair of slight projections in the place of 

 the spines. Petiole long and slender, hke that of the worker but T\dth 

 lower node. Postpetiole as long as broad, square from above, in pro- 

 file with the node highest in the middle of the segment and rounded. 

 Gaster and legs of the usual conformation. 



Mandibles and clypeus subopaque, the latter coarsely rugose. Head 

 shining, very irregularly and sparsely reticulate, in front of the ocelli 

 with a few shallow foveolse. Pronotum subopaque, reticulate; meso- 

 notum very smooth and shining, finely reticulate. Scutelhmi and 

 epinotum more opaque, disk of former coarsely reticulate, sides of both 

 longitudinally rugulose. Petiole and postpetiole opaque, more shining 

 above, dehcately corrugated. Gaster very smooth and shining. 



Hairs white, rather sparse and long, even on the legs and antennal 

 scape, where they are reclinate but not appressed. 



Black. Mandibles, antennae and legs white except the following 

 portions, which are infuscated or blackened : Edges and teeth of man- 

 dibles, terminal joint of antennae, basal two-thirds of coxre, middle of 

 femora and tibiae and last tarsal joint. Wings like those of the female. 



Type locality: AVashington, D. C. (Pergande). 



Additional localities: Morgantown, N. C. (Forel) ; Austin, Tex.; San 

 Angelo, Tom Green County, Tex. ; Toronto, Brewster County, Tex. 



The type specimens of this fine species were taken by Mr. Pergande 

 in a nest of Monomorium minuium Mayr var. minimum, and it was 

 supposed that the Leptoihorax was a guest in the nests of the Mono- 

 morium, but Forel, who observed the species in North Carolina, showed 

 that this was altogether an exceptional case. He found L. Pergandei 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



living "in independent formicaries, in the moss of woods or in the earth 

 of meadows, hke the ordinary species of Leptothorax" (Ayin. Soc. Ent. 

 de Belg., Tome XLV, 1901, pp. 389-398). In Texas I have had ample 

 opportunity to observe the habits of this ant, especially in the neigh- 

 borhood of Austin, where it is found making its nests in very sparsely 

 grassy spots among the mesquite and Opuntia thickets. The nests 

 can be found only by carefully tracking foraging workers, as the 

 entrance is a small hole often concealed under a dead twig or a tuft of 

 grass roots. The colonies are hardly more populous than those of 

 other species of Leptothorax. The winged forms appear during the 

 last week in April and the first week in May. The workers run about 

 on the soil in the hot sun as fierce hunters of small insects (Aphids, 

 minute Heteroptera, etc). As they are extremely pugnacious even 

 toward individuals of the same species from other nests, and as I have 

 never found them nesting with Monomorium minimum, though this 

 species is \&v\ common in the same localities, I believe, with Forel, 

 that Pergande's observation must be quite exceptional or may even 

 involve some misinterpretation. 



20. Leptothorax (Dichotliorax) floridanus Emery. 



L. (£>.) floridanus Emerv, Zool. Jahrb., Abth. f. Svst.,A7IT. 1S94. pp. 318, 

 324. ?. ■ 



According to Emery, the worker of this species (PI. XII, figs. 24 and 

 24a) differs from the preceding in the following characters : The bodj' is 

 more shining, the epinotuiii smooth and shining above, the mesoepinotal 

 constriction punctulate, subopaque, the petiolar node is narrower, and 

 not impressed above, the postpetiole is hardly ^ again as broad as the 

 petiole and proportionally narrower than in Pergandei. 



Type locaUty: Florida (Pergande). 



Additional locality: North Carohna (Forel). 



The differences between the two Dichothorax are so slight that 

 Emery suspected floridanus to be merely a subspecies of Pergandei. 

 I am myself strongly of this opinion, but as I have seen only a single 

 specimen of floridanus, kindly given me by Prof. Forel, I hesitate to 

 reduce this form to subgeneric rank. In my specimen the petiolar 

 node is very decidedly convex when seen from behind, and the epinotal 

 spines are longer and more curved than in any of my specimens of 

 Pergandei. In other respects I can see no differences of importance. 

 Color, pilosity and sculpture are the same in both forms. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Explanation of Plate XII. 



Fig. 1. — -Leptothorax muscorum Xylander. Switzerland. In this and the fol- 

 lowing figures only the profile view of thorax and pedicel (petiole 

 and postpetiole) of the worker are represented. All the figures are 

 from camera lucida dra-wings. 



-L. muscorum var. soi-didus var. nov. 



-L. acervorum Mayr. Switzerland. 



-L. acervorum subsp. Canadensis Provancher. 



-L. acervorum subsp. Canadensis var. Yankee Emery 



-L. Emersoni Wheeler. 



-L. Schaumi Roger. 



-L. fortinodis Mayr. 



-L. longispinosus Roger. 



-L. curvispinosus MajT. 



-L. curvispinosus subsp. amhiguus Emery. 



-L. curvispinosus subsp. rugatulus Emerj'. 



-L. curvispinosus subsp. annectens subsp. nov. 



-L. Schmittii sp. nov. 



-L. nitens Emery. 



-L. texanus sp. nov. 



-L. tricarinatus Emery. (After Emery.) 



-L. neomexicanus sp. nov. 



-L. obturator sp. nov. 



-L. nevadensis sp. nov. 



-L. terrigena sp. nov. 



-L. Andrei Emery. (After Emery.) 



-L. (Dichothorax) Pergandei Emer}'. 23a node of petiole seen from 

 behind. 



Fig. 24.— L. (Dichothorax) floridanus Emery. 24a node of petiole seen from 

 beh'nd. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



NOTES ON THE CONRAD COLLECTION OF VICKSBURG FOSSILS, 

 WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 



BY THOMAS L. CASEY. 



The following paper anticipates a more elaborate descriptive cata- 

 logue of the Vicksburg fossils which the author has in view, and it is 

 intended that the species here described as new shall be figured with 

 the others when that is published. It will be sufficient to state that 

 nearly all the species here named for the first time are well known, and 

 represented in every collection from Mcksburg, Red Bluff or Jackson, 

 that can be considered in any wa}^ complete, and there can be but little 

 doubt of their ready identification from the diagnoses, comparative 

 or otherwise, which it is thought are drawn up with sufficient fullness 

 and accuracy for that purpose. 



PELEOYPODA. 

 Corbula laqueata n. sp. 



C. filosa Con. (Am. Jour. Cone, I, p. 145; nomen prseoc). 



Differs from the species named perdvhia by De Gregorio; at least 

 on comparing Vicksburg specimens wnth those from Red Bluff, I find 

 that the latter form is shorter and differs greatly in sculpture in the 

 umbonal region. The true rugse do not begin for a considerable dis- 

 tance from the beak in the Red Bluff form, this region being smooth 

 or feebly wrinkled, whereas in the Vicksburg species the rugae begin 

 very near the beaks, and the latter are more strongly gyrate. As the 

 Vicksburg species is distinct I would propose the name given to it in 

 manuscript by Conrad. C. laqueata is a small species, never materi- 

 ally exceeding 6 mm. in length by 5 in height, the posterior flattened 

 surface feebly delimited, the boimding line being rounded and not cari- 

 nate ; the rugae are comparatively coarse ventrally. It is confined to 

 the upper marl and represented in the lower limestone by a variety 

 having much finer rugae. 



The type of Corbula interstriata appears to be the only known repre- 

 sentative of the species, and I have never been able to discover it at 

 Vicksburg. I did not examine the hinge with much care, but the 

 general appearance of the species is not very unlike that of C. gibbosa 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



of Lea, being shorter and relatively higher, and it is probably a true 

 Corbnia. 



Under his description of Corhula alijormis {Avi. Journ. Cone, II, 

 p. 76), Conrad remarks that "this shell belongs exclusively to the Shell 

 Bluff group and is very distinct from C. alta of the Vicksburg group." 

 This statement is difficult to comprehend as C. alijormis has been 

 found in abundance by ]\Ir. C. W. Johnson in the bluff bordering Mint 

 Spring Bayou, at Vicksburg, at a point only a few feet removed in 

 elevation or horizontal distance from the pocket of sandy clay in 

 which I have taken the true C. alta plentifully. It is presumable, 

 therefore, that both these species existed contemporaneously in the 

 Low^er Vicksburg. They are both completely unknown from the 

 Upper Vicksbm-g marl. There is no reason to suppose that other 

 species of this same subgenus of Corhula (Tiza De Greg.) may not exist 

 at Vicksburg, and in fact I have a single valve that seems to indicate 

 a third species, much more equilateral than the others. 



The small Mactra occurring in great abundance in the Lower Vicks- 

 burg is a different species from funerata, which occurs only in the 

 upper marl. It is probable that the former, which is much more 

 inequilateral, may be the one named incequilateralis by Meyer {Bull. 1, 

 Geol. Surv. Ala., p. 82), although the figure is rather poor. It is sin- 

 gular that the corresponding species occurring in the Jackson is the 

 counterpart of funerata from the Upper Vicksburg, and differs de- 

 cidedly from the Lower Vicksburg species. 



In the Conrad Catalogue (Am. Journ. Cone, 1865) there are two 

 species which appear to have been originally named Psam?no6tamiss»s- 

 sippiensis, one under the genus Gari, on page 4, the other under the 

 genus Ahra, on page 5; the references seem to show that they were 

 separately described and figured. The species Ahra mississippiensis 

 is the only one of which I can find the type. It is broadly oval, but 

 slightly inequilateral and of moderately large size, relatively higher in 

 form than Ahra perovata, with which it occurs very abundantly in 

 some parts of the Lower Vicksburg. The Gari mississippiensis {I.e., 

 p. 4) I cannot place and there appears to be no type in the Conrad 

 collection. 



There seems also . to be no type of Tellina perovata Conrad, 

 and I have not been able to identify this species from the material in 

 my cabinet. In the list referred to, the locahty "Claiborne" is 

 attached to this species, but probably in error. The Ahra protexta of 

 Conrad, of which also no type can be found, is very abundant in the 

 Lower Vicksburg, to which it is entirely confined; but it is a Tellina 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



near vickshwgensis, if I have identified it correctly from the pubHshed 

 drawing, the latter being about twice as large as any of my specimens, 

 but agreeing perfectly otherwise. 



Tellina pilsbryi n. sp. 



There is an undescribed Tellina occurring in large numbers in the 

 Lower A'icksburg, to which I take pleasure in giving the above name 

 in honor of Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, of Philadelphia. It is strongly inequi- 

 lateral, trigonal, with the ventral edge rounded, rather thick in sub- 

 stance, compressed, the anterior and posterior sides broadly rounded, 

 the surface equally dechvous and convex toward the edges and not 

 more abruptly declivous along the anterior edge ; it is strongly marked 

 with fine, very close-set concentric strife throughout. The lateral teeth 

 of the left valve are large and strongly developed, those of the right 

 obsolescent. The larger cardinal of the left valve is subbifid. The 

 length of a nearly full-grown valve is 9 mm. ; height about 7 mm. ; 

 beak about 2 mm. in front of the median line. The lunule is small 

 and slender. 

 Lucina vicksburgensis n. sp. » 



Occurs in the Lower Vicksburg in great abundance. This species 

 is subequilateral, suborbicular, rather compressed, the beaks somewhat 

 high and acute, the adjacent anterior sinus small and deep, the lunule 

 small and deep-set and but little more than twice as long as high as 

 a rule. The surface is covered throughout with strong concentric raised 

 lines which are close-set and low, but becoming strongly lamelliform on 

 the anterior and posterior dorsal declivities, the dorsal edge being ren- 

 dered rough spiculose and uneven thereby. Cardinal tooth of right 

 valve very obUque. Length 7^ mm.; height 7^ mm. It grew some- 

 what larger than the type above described, but never exceeded this 

 length by more than about 2 mm. It might be considered closely aUied 

 to the Jacksonian Cyclas curtus of Conrad {Am. Journ. Cone, I, p. 139), 

 as the posterior side is noticeably more truncate than the anterior, 

 were it not for the fact that curtus is described as " ventricose," a term 

 which could not possibly be applied to vicksburgensis. 



Lucina scopularis n. sp. 



Red Bluff formation. Approaches vicksburgensis very closely, 

 being orbicular and only moderately convex, but it is a little smaller 

 and the concentric lines are finer, relatively less close-set and more 

 lamelUform, becoming still more strongly so on the anterior and 

 posterior dorsal declivities, though relatively less strongly so than 

 on the corresponding parts of vicksburgensis. It differs principally 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



from the latter in the form of the anterostral sinus, which is 

 longer and more transverse in outline, in the form of the lunule, 

 which is larger and very much more elongate, and in the cardinal 

 tooth of the right valve, which is here scarcely at all oblique, 

 being almost perpendicular to the hinge line. In both species the 

 laterals are moderately developed and the ventral edges smooth 

 internally without trace of crenulation. Length of a moderately 

 large specimen 7 mm., height 6.2 mm. The anterior and posterior 

 sides are almost equally and ver}^ broadly rounded. This species 

 is very slightly more inflated than vicksburgensis. There is a variety 

 which is very abundant in the Jacksonian of ^Moody's Branch. 



In the Conrad collection the only species of Lucina that I could dis- 

 cover is the largest form occurring at Vicksburg — moderately convex, 

 very thin in substance, with feeble hinge and nearly smooth surface. 

 The label attached states that this is Lucina perlevis. This is, however, 

 the species which was subsequently described under the name missis- 

 sippiensis. There is some confusion here. 



Venericardia vicksburgensis n. sp. 



The larger Venericardia of the Vicksburg differs specifically from 

 the one occurring so abundantly in the Jackson — named diversidentata 

 by Meyer — and also rotunda of the Claiborne, in having very much 

 fewer radiating ribs, these being only 19-20 in number. It is found 

 only in the lower limestone, and attained a length of 22 mm. or more. 

 It occurs also at Red Bluff. 



Cardita aldrichi n- sp. 



Lower limestone at Vicksburg occurring in considerable abundance. 

 It is only moderately convex, inequilateral, with about 15 broad, feebly 

 convex, approximate radiating ribs. Thelongerribs, behind the middle, 

 are more notably wide and separated throughout their length by 

 scarcely half of their own width. The anterior lateral hinge tooth is 

 distinct. The length of a specimen rather more than half grown is 5.5 

 mm., the height 4.5 mm. 



Area invidiosa n. sp. 



From the Red Bluff formation of Mississippi I have before me speci- 

 mens of a small Area, probably allied somewhat to the Claibornian rhom- 

 hoidella of Lea. It is subrhomboidal, very inequilateral, moderately 

 inflated, broadly rounded ventrally, the anterior and posterior sides 

 oblique, the former rounded, the latter longer and nearly straight. 

 The beaks are rather broad, moderately elevated above the hinge-hne, 

 bisected by a feeble depression which becomes obsolete ventrally. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



The hinge-line is straight externally, broadly feebly arcuate internally, 

 the line of teeth more than three-fourths as long as the shell, the lateral 

 teeth becoming longer and strongly oblique. The space between 

 the beaks and the hinge-line in flattened, nearly smooth except some 

 fine, close-set parallel lines of growth, but at the posterior end there 

 are some coarser parallel and feebly oblique lines. The radial ribs 

 are 28 to 31 in number, rather coarse and separated by much less than 

 their own widths, except in the feebly depressed area radiating from 

 the middle of the beaks where they become finer and relatively much 

 more widely separated, and generally with one fine intermediate rib 

 between them in this region toward the ventral margin only ; the ribs 

 also become smaller but very close-set posteriorly in the flattened area 

 toward the hinge-line. The surface posteriorly at an angle of about 

 30 degrees with the hinge-line is convex, becoming rapidly declivous 

 and explanate to the latter. The muscular scars are rather deep. 

 Lines of growth produce feeble transverse and rather widely separated 

 nodules on the ribs generally becoming obsolete posteriorly. The 

 length of a moderately large individual of this species is 11.5 mm., the 

 height 6 mm. 

 Area delicatula n. sp. 



Occurs in the Lower Vicksburg limestone in great abundance. 

 It may be regarded as a homologue of invidiosa and is doubtless one 

 of the smallest known members of the family. It is elongate, very 

 inequilateral, obliquely parallelogramic, moderately inflated, becoming 

 flattened posteriorly toward the hinge-Hne, the latter long, thin and 

 straight, the teeth small. The space between the hinge-line and the 

 beaks rather low, flat and smooth or nearly so, narrowing very 

 gradually posteriorly. The umbonal impression, with its diminished 

 ribs, is nearly as in invidiosa and many other species. The ribs are 

 some 28 in number, relatively moderately coarse, being generally sepa- 

 rated by nearly their own widths, flattened. Length of a moderately 

 large valve 6 mm., height 2.6-2.8 mm. 



It is somewhat singular that no reference has been made to the very 

 different sculpture of the right and left valves of Area lesueuri Dall 

 {mississippiensis Con.). The left valve has the diverging ribs double, 

 the pairs being much more close-set than the single and smaller ribs 

 of the right valve. It results from this that the left valve is much the 

 stronger and more frequently preserved intact. 

 Area vaughani n. sp. 



While mentioning the genus Area, it may be appropriate to allude 

 to a species, quite common in the Lower Claiborne at St. Maurice, 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



La., and allied somewhat to rhomboidella Lea. It attained a length 

 of more than 20 mm., with a height of 12 mm. or more, obliquely 

 rhomboidal, moderately inequilateral, rounded anteriorly and posteri- 

 orly and broadly rounded ventrally. It is moderately inflated, the 

 radiating concavity at the middle of the umbones almost obsolete and 

 ha\'ing merely sHghtly wider intervals between the ribs, the latter 

 41-43 in number. The hinge-une is long and straight, the teeth becom- 

 ing larger and very oblique laterally but well developed throughout, 

 mth their sides finely ribbed, giving to each tooth a bipectinate appear- 

 ance. The area under the beaks is ample and broadly, divaricately 

 striate. This species differs from rhomboidella in its much larger size, 

 more numerous ribs, rounded ventral edge and many other characters, 

 and may be named vaughani. A fair illustration of it was given by 

 Mr. Vaughan (Bull. Geol. Surv., 142, PI. Ill, fig. 8), in whose honor it 

 is named. A modification of the true rhomboidella, but still smaller in 

 size, also occurs sparingly at St. Maurice. 



SCAPHOPODA. 

 Dentalium strenuum n. sp. 



In the Upper Vicksburg there are two large species of Dentalium; 

 one — D. 7nississippiense of Conrad — is moderately large, gradually 

 tapering throughout its length, feebly, evenly arcuate, having about 

 12 well-marked raised threads which become doubled or sometimes 

 quadrupled in number anteriorly, but generally almost effaced at the 

 mouth. A moderately large specimen measures 47 mm. in length by 4.6 

 mm. in maximum diameter. The other species, which may be named 

 strenuum, is much larger, nearly straight, but becoming more rapidly 

 arcuate and also more distinctly tapering in form near the posterior 

 end. The ribs are some ten in number at the smaller end, becoming 

 generally quadrupled in number at the mouth, where they still remain 

 very distinct. The substance of the shell is much thicker, being fre- 

 quently 1.2 mm. through the walls near the middle. The notch at the 

 smaller end is nearly as in mississippiense, but generally deeper and 

 more acute. The largest entire specimen in my cabmet measures 67 

 mm. in length by 6.3 mm. in maximum diameter, but I have seen frag- 

 ments measuring more than 7 mm. in diameter and which represented 

 examples probably not much less than 90 mm. in length. 



Dentalium opaculum n. sp. 



Occurs in the] Lower Vicksburg in very great numbers. It is 

 smaller than mississippiense, somewhat less arcuate, gradually taper- 

 ing, notably uneven in growth and frequently more or less contorted at 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



various points in its^extent, smooth but dull in luster, devoid of any 

 trace of elevated ribs or threads except toward the smaller end, where 

 some 12 to 16 faintly raised subequal lines become visible. , The pos- 

 terior notch is ver}^ feeble and broadly angulate, much feebler than 

 in either of the preceding species. A moderately large example meas- 

 ures 40 mm. in length by 4 mm. in diameter, but the latter dimension 

 occasionally attains 4.5 mm., which would represent a rather large 

 individual. 

 Dentalium zephyrinum "• sp. 



The commonest species at Red Bluff, closely resembling the preceding 

 in general size, form and slight irregularity of growth, but the longi- 

 tudinal threads are distinct throughout the length and of a different 

 form, being wider and flat, equal, about 16 in number, very strong 

 posteriorly, becoming finer and feebler anteriorly where one or two 

 feebler intermediate threads become visible. The posterior notch is 

 well marked, not broadly angulate but generally rather deeper than 

 wide. The length of the largest individual before me is 41 mm., with 

 a maximum dian:ieter of 4.2 mm. 

 Dentalium polygonum n. ap. 



This species also, from Red Bluff, is still more slender, and 

 is peculiar in being a perfect heptagon in cross-section near the 

 smaller end, the angles of the polygon being minutely elevated, form- 

 ing fine but conspicuous longitudinal threads, which remain distinct 

 to the larger end ; the intervals soon acquire two to four finer threads 

 which never become as conspicuous as the primary ribs. The notch 

 is not present on the truncated apex of the only specimen before me. 

 Length 33 mm., width 3.2 mm. 



GASTROPODA. 



The Fusus mississipiensis of Conrad is a Latirus allied to pTotractus, 

 having the columellar folds evident though rather feeble. It differs 

 in the entirely rounded outHne of the whorls, there being no wide double 

 band or collar below the suture as in that species. It is moderately 

 abundant in the upper marls. 



Fusus vicksburgensis is very rare and also occurs solely in the upper 

 marls. My specimens are all fragmentary, partially decorticated and 

 decomposed. Its broad flat lyrse easily distinguish it and the nucleus 

 and nepionic whorls are also peculiar. 



The ^"icksburg type of Clavclla differs from that of the Eocene 

 horizons in having a small conoidal nucleus. They are probably 

 generically different. As far as 1 have been able to discover there are 




268 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



at least two species in the Vicksburg, both confined to the lower hori- 

 zon. 



There are several species of Pleurotoma in the Vicksburg and sub- 

 adjacent horizons allied more or less closely to servata Con., and appar- 

 ently neglected or overlooked hitherto in our literature, but which can 

 be distinguished readily by brief comparative descriptions. In servata 

 the nucleus is smooth, elevated, acute and of 3 or 4 whorls, the last 

 whorl gradually acquiring a few riblets which become by degrees the 

 7 or 8 large rounded ribs of the body whorls. There is no appearance 

 of a subcentral revolving carina on the whorl adjoining the nucleus, 

 and on each of the more recent whorls there are generally 3 coarse 

 revolving lines thickened on the ribs, with numerous very fine close-set 

 intermediate threads, all occupying about lower half of the whorl. Just 

 below the suture there is a conspicuous thickened collar, immediately 

 below which there is a deep revolving concavity, the surface thence 

 expanding to the uppermost of the coarse revolving lines, the entire 

 surface between the latter and the collar having fine subequal and 

 rather close-set lines. The aperture and canal together constitute 

 about three-sevenths of the total length of the shell. 

 Pleurotoma vicksburgensis n. sp. 



This species occurs plentifully in the Vicksburgian beds, accompany- 

 ing servata and generally confounded with it. It usually attained a 

 a little larger size and stouter form, and may be distinguished at 

 once by the fact that the whorl immediately adjoining the nucleus has 

 a strong revolving line below the middle, thickened on the ribs and 

 accompanied by a close-set smaller revolving line immediately above 

 it. The larger whorls generally acquire two other coarse, though much 

 smaller revolving lines, one above and one below the two mentioned, 

 and also finer intermediate threads. Just below the suture the 

 elevated collar is not quite so prominent as in servata, and, instead 

 of the abrupt concavity adjoining, the surface is almost evenly con- 

 cave and rapidly expanded to the system of coarse revolving lines 

 referred to, this surface being also finely, evenly lyrate. The nucleus 

 is much shorter than in servata, consisting of between two and three 

 whorls, and is not higher than wide. The aperture and canal are 

 nearly as in servata. One of the larger specimens before me measiu-es 

 27 mm. in length by 7 mm. in width. The double carina of the nepi- 

 onic whorls remains throughout the most conspicuous feature of the 

 revolving sculpture, the lines becoming gcadually more nearly equal 

 and more widely spaced, with the dilatations on the ribs much more 

 pronounced than in servata; the ribs, also, are much more broadly 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



rounded than in that species and become obsolete in the posterior 

 concave area of the whorls. A specimen in the Conrad collection is 

 marked '^servata var.?"; it is deprived of the nucleus and adjoining 

 whorls. Both this species and servata occur also in the Lower Vicks- 

 burg, but in slightly modified forms. 



Pleurotoma oblivia n. sp. 



This is a Red Bluff species somewhat allied to servata. It 

 resembles servata in general form and conformation of the nucleus, 

 nepionic whorls, aperture and canal, the elevated smooth nucleus of 

 three or four whorls and nepionic spire whorls being formed in the same 

 way, but the ribs are narrower, more strongly rounded, much more 

 elevated and only about six in number, strongly marked throughout 

 the length of the whorl and only becoming extinct at the rather fine 

 sinuous collar just below the suture. The revolving sculpture consists 

 of eight or nine coarse lyrae, more dilated on the ribs, the first three 

 less coarse and subequal, those in anterior two-thirds of the whorl 

 generally with one fine thread intermediate. Length 22 mm., width 

 6.5 mm. It may be readily distinguished from servata by the fewer, 

 narrower and more elevated ribs, more equal revolving lines through- 

 out the length of the whorls and absence of any defined posterior flat- 

 tened or concave area on the latter. 



Pleurotoma evanesoens n. sp. 



In the Jacksonian of the Kimbrel Beds, outcropping on the Red 

 River a few miles below Montgomery, occurs another P/fwro^oma, rather 

 closely resembling servata in general form, but widely distinct in sculp- 

 ture and even more elongate in form. The nucleus is smooth, rather 

 higher than wide and has about three whorls, the subsequent whorls 

 mutually subsimilar, each having scarcely six large, though feebly 

 elevated, oblique ribs. The collar below the suture is moderately 

 wide but obtuse and low, not sinuous, and, immediately below it, the 

 surface is feebly concave and moderately rapidly expanded to the 

 middle, where each whorl is obtusely tumid and prominent, the sur- 

 face thence gradually declivous anteriorly to the suture. The low 

 feeble oblique ribs become wholly extinct in the concavity, occupying 

 almost posterior half of each whorl. The sculpture is very fine and 

 feeble, consisting of relatively broad but very feebly elevated, fiat, 

 revolving lyrae, which are very close-set and subequal, nuitually 

 separated by a single very fine thread of similar character. The 

 entire sculpture is so feeble that it is very apt to be entirely effaced 

 by water wearing. Length of the largest of the three specimens 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



before me 32 mm., wddth 8 mm. On the part of the larger body 

 whorls below the shoulder, the revolving lyrse become more widely 

 separated, T\-ith three fine threads intermediate, as a rule, but the 

 lyrse are always flattened and in more or less low rehef . 



Pleurotoma hilgardi n. sp. 



From the Jaeksonian of Moody's Branch, I have two species which 

 appear to have been confounded with servata, though differing radi- 

 cally therefrom in the structure of the nucleus. One, named as above, 

 is almost similar to servata in size, form and in the number and form of 

 the shghtly obhque rounded ribs, but has the raised revolving lines 

 some eleven or twelve in number, subequal in size among themselves 

 and becoming only slightly larger on the anterior parts of the whorl. 

 The nucleus differs very radically from that of servata or ohlivia, 

 being small, obtuse and composed of only one and a half to two whorls. 

 The canal also is decidedly shorter. Length 16 mm., width 5 mm. 



Pleurotoma collaris n. sp. 



This is the second species from Moody's Branch referred to under 

 the preceding description. It is stouter, with a still shorter canal, 

 the aperture and canal together constituting about two-fifths 

 the entire length of the shell. The nucleus is small, obtuse and 

 of about two whorls. Body w^horls about seven in number, each 

 with some seven or eight obtuse ribs and a wide and strongly elevated 

 conspicuous collar just below the suture, the upper surface of the 

 collar declivous to the suture and having two close-set revolving striae, 

 the lower part acutely elevated. The surface below the collar is deeply 

 concave, then rapidly expanding to the posterior of the three strong 

 raised hues which occupy about anterior half of the whorl. The 

 concavity is marked with many very fine close-set revolving lines and 

 the spaces between the three large lyrae referred to also have each about 

 three fine lines. Length 17 mm., width 6 mm. 



Pleurotoma arnica n. sp. 



Of the species allied to rotoedens and tenella, there are several 

 forms in the Red Bluff stratum. One of these, named as above, 

 is somewhat stout, sculptured nearly like rotoedens, excepting that 

 the concave and rapidly expanded surface immediately below the 

 sutural collar scarcely ever acquires more than about two fine threads 

 which occupy its median parts, while in rotoedens there are numerous 

 fine threads at this part of the larger whorls. The nucleus in arnica is 

 larger than in rotoedens, and there are generally about three of its whorls 

 covered with fine acutely raised riblets, instead of about two whorls, as 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



in rotoedens. The strongly elevated median revolving keel is similar 

 to that of rotoedens, and double, but the nodules are coarser. Length 

 14.5 mm., A^ddth 4.5 mm. The corresponding dimensions of an equally 

 well-grown specimen (that is, of six body whorls) of rotoedens, from the 

 Upper Vicksburg, are 11 by 2.8 mm. Arnica may be regarded as a 

 probable ancestor of rotoedens. 

 Pleurotoma ancilla Q- sp. 



The archetj'pe of tenella in the Red Bluff may be thus named. 

 It is nearly similar in form to tenella but smaller, the nucleus large 

 and well developed, of nearly five whorls, approximately the last two 

 having numerous fine acute riblets; it is higher than wide and acute. 

 The subseciuent whorls have a broadly obtuse revolving prominence 

 just below the middle, which is closely ribbed, the ribs longitudinal 

 and rounded; collar below the suture consisting of two approximate 

 subequal and slightly uneven revolving lyrse ; space between the collar 

 and median ribbed tumidity moderately expanding and having three 

 or four fine subequal lines; just below the median tumidity there is a 

 fine irregular Mne. Aperture and canal together short, scarcely more 

 than a third the length of the shell. Length 13 mm., width 4 mm. The 

 specimens measiu-ed has about six body whorls. 

 Pleurotoma plutonica n. sp. 



Not rare in the Lower Vicksburg limestones. This species is rather 

 slender, perfectly smooth and polished throughout, with scarcely a trace 

 of revolving sculpture except on the beak, where there are some oblique 

 widely spaced striae. The nucleus is smooth, acutely ogival, higher 

 than wide and of about four whorls. The subsequent whorls have 

 each about eight low rounded oblique ribs, which become obsolete in 

 a revolving concavity below the suture. The first three, or thereabouts, 

 of the body whorls have a rather pronounced, though obtusely rounded, 

 swelling adjoining the suture beneath, but this is gradually lost on the 

 larger whorls, these having but feeble traces of a raised band at the 

 suture, the latter being a very fine, slightly sinuose and feebly 

 impressed line. The canal is well differentiated from the aperture, 

 and the two combined constitute about three-sevenths of the total 

 length of the shell. Length 12 mm., width 3.7 mm. Another speci- 

 men, represented by the spire alone, indicates that the species may 

 attain a length of fully 15 mm. or more. There is no trace of this 

 species in the upper marls. 



Pleurotoma intacta n. sp. 



Anotlier species, equally well defined, may be named as above. 

 It is small, moderately stout, fusiform, the aperture and canal, which 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



are not very strongly differentiated, together constituting nearly half 

 the entire length of the shell. The nucleus is as wade as high, consisting 

 of about three whorls, smooth but gradually acquiring the fine riblets 

 which become the eight or nine rather narrow and subacutely elevated 

 oblique ribs of the subsequent whorls, the latter short, about four in 

 number in the largest specimen before me, the ribs angular in profile 

 from base to apex of the whorl, with point of maximum elevation just 

 below the middle of the length and becoming obsolete just below the 

 pronounced uneven and closely duplex collar margining the suture 

 beneath. Each whorl has six or seven coarse, subequal and closely 

 approximate flattened or shghtly convex lyrse, those in lower half 

 slightly coarser than the posterior three, and that at the middle shghtly 

 thickened at the summits of the ribs. Length of the largest in an 

 extended series 7 mm., -R-idth 2.5 mm. This species occurs only in the 

 upper marls at Vicksburg and is common. 



PHANDELLA n. gen. 



This genus occurs, in the Upper Mcksburg marls, and appears to 

 have no closely alliied living descendant, although related perhaps to 

 Daphnella. The shell is minute, and the animal apparently existed the 

 greater part of its life in the nuclear stage, there being no example 

 which I have seen, out of a considerable series collected, possessing 

 more than between one and two body whorls. The nucleus is rela- 

 tively large though evenly conical, pointed, consisting of from five 

 to six whorls which are exquisitely sculptured in two systems of very 

 minute hues crossing each other at an angle of about 45°, producing 

 an appearance very much like the engine-turning frequently engraved 

 upon a watch. 



There are before me three species, distinguishable among them- 

 selves by very clearly marked characters, but at the present time 

 I will only briefly outline the most abuntlant of the three, which may 

 be regarded as the type of the genus. 



Phandella nepionica n. sp. 



This species has about oneandahalf bod}' whorls, which are together 

 about twice as long as the nucleus, polished and complete!}- devoid 

 of revolving sculpture, having, however, about ten sharply elevated 

 longitudinal or slightly oblique ribs, which become abruptly declivous 

 posteriorly and obsolescent near the suture. The nucleus has about 

 five whorls; the canal is rather short and there is a fine raised collar 

 margining the suture beneath, which line may also be observed to 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



mutuall}^ separate the larger of the nuclear whorls. Length 2.25 mm., 

 width 1.2 mm. Many spechnens. 



Drillia harmonica n. sp. 



A well-defined new species, quite rare in the Lower Vicksburg, 

 and not yet found in the upper marls. It is rather stout, the 

 spire apparently narrowing somewhat more rapidly toward apex. 

 Nucleus simple and composed of three or four whorls. The sub- 

 sequent whorls are rather short, each with some eight or nine 

 strongly marked rounded ribs, longitudinal in direction or nearly so, 

 and generally in line from one whorl to the next ; they extend nearly 

 throughout the length of the whorl, becoming obsolete only in 

 the narrow revolving concavity below the ante-sutural elevated 

 collar, which is rather thick and conspicuous and marked posteriorly 

 with one or two striae. Each whorl has some seven or eight nearly 

 equal revolving lyrae, those near the middle mutually separated as a 

 rule by a finer line. The aperture is rather wide, the canal very short, 

 the two together but little more than a third of the total length, the 

 callus near the posterior angle of the aperture tumid and conspicuous. 

 Length 11 mm., width 3.7 mm. I had confounded this species with 

 mississippiensis, of Conrad, until a recent inspection of the type of the 

 latte*" shows that it is very different; mississippiensis is very stout 

 much larger, with the revolving concavity below the sutural collar 

 very \\'ide, constituting about half the entire length of the whorl; the 

 short, broadly rounded ribs are confined to anterior half of the whorls 

 and are obsolete in the posterior concavity. The specimen is somewhat 

 water-worn, so that the sculpture is not distinct, but there are appar- 

 ently revolving raised lines which distinguish the species at once 

 from the smooth and otherwise very different eboroides. The type 

 seems to be unique. 



Scobinella pluriplicata n- sp. 



In the genus Scobinella, of Conrad, it should be stated that the 

 species occurring at Red Bluff is distinct from ccelata of the Upper 

 Vicksburg marls, and I would propose the above name for it. 

 This species is much larger than ccelata, with a relatively more elongate 

 and less rapidly acuminate spire, and differs also in sculpture. In 

 ccelata there is a broad flattened duplex collar extending from the 

 suture anteriorly for about a fifth the length of the whorl, the surface 

 then concave to well below the middle, generally wdth about three 

 revohdng lines at the bottom of the concavity, the middle one of which 

 is nodulose; the surface from the concavity to the lower limit of the 

 18 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



whorl is more prominent, flattened and divided into two coarsely- 

 nodose sections by a fine stria. In pluriplicata the whorls are rela- 

 tively much more elongate, and, from the suture for about one-sixth of 

 the length, are flattened; the next sixth of the length is occupied by 

 a small concavity containing a nodulose line, which is even more prom- 

 inent than the preceding flattened collar; the surface thence to the 

 anterior limit of the whorl, occupying fully two-thirds of the length, is 

 still more elevated but flattened, cjdindrical and divided into about 

 four nodose rings by three rather coarse equidistant revolving grooves. 

 The canal is more prolonged and more obconic than in coelata, and the 

 plications of the columella number some four to five. Length of a 

 specimen of about seven body whorls 35 mm., width 9.5 mm. Length 

 of a specimen of coelata of the same number of whorls 21 mm., width 

 6.5 mm. Pluriplicata occurs also at Byram's Ferry. The Lower 

 Vicksburgian at Vicksburg has not yet yielded a trace of the genus. 



Scobinella famelica n. sp. 



Very slender and elongate, the aperture narrow, scarcely at all wider 

 than the canal, from which it is but feebly differentiated, both 

 together constituting but little more than a third of the total 

 length of the shell. The nucleus is rather small, of about three 

 whorls, with its summit obtuse. Subsequent whorls each with 

 a prominent double collar subjacent to the suture and a broad 

 obtuse and strongly elevated revolving keel, fully a third as wide as 

 the length of the whorl and divided into two subequal rings by a re- 

 volving groove, situated below the middle of the whorl; this duplex 

 ring is obliquely and coarsely nodose. In the concavity between 

 the collar and the elevated keel there are two or three fine revolving 

 lines, the posterior of which is finely and more or less evenly nodulose. 

 The anterior margin is a fine line on a level with the duplex ring and 

 separated therefrom by a narrow deep concavity. Columella with six 

 or seven rather unequal, close-set oblique folds, forming a slightly 

 tumid columellar band as wide as the distance separating it from the 

 posterior angle of the aperture. Length about 25 mm., width 4.5 mm. 

 It occurs exclusively in the Upper Vicksburg marl and is rare. 



Scobinella macer n. sp. 



Upper Vicksburg. This species resembles the preceding in general 

 form and sculpture but has only two folds on the columella. These 

 folds are strong, subequal and do not seem to be attended by any 

 adventitious plicae. This species is elongate and very slender, the 

 nucleus simple and of about three whorls. Each of the subsequent 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



whorls has a broad, moderately elevated double collar subjacent to 

 the suture and a strongly elevated, obtuse and nodose double carina 

 at a third of the length from the anterior margin, the deeply concave 

 intermediate surface having a single strongly beaded line along the 

 middle and a few other very faint and obscurely irregular revolving 

 threads. The lower margin is moderately elevated, the surface thence 

 to the large double carina concave. The spire before me consists of 

 seven body whorls and is 10 mm. in length and about 3.5 mm. in width 

 at base. The remainder of the shell is missing, it being very rare and 

 represented thus far only by fragments. 



The genus Scohinella, of Conrad, is probably valid, but contains 

 species having anywhere from two to six or seven columellar folds. ^ 

 They hold together very well in general type of sculpture and depart 

 materially in a great many characters from Cordieria. The genus 

 Cordieria does not occur in the American Eocene fauna and there is 

 considerable confusion in the literature concerning it. Cossmann 

 states that the first two of the species originally placed in Cordieria 

 by Rouault are really Borsonia, and, assuming the third species as 

 the type, gives an illustration of a "plesiotype" which would bear 

 considerable resemblance to Latirus were it not for the obsolete canal. 

 He also states that the embryo of Cordieria is paucispiral with subglo- 

 bular apex, which does not agree with our species, such as biconica, 

 plicata and ludoviciana, and another genus may have to be made for 

 these. In Scohinella the sinus is well developed, but in Cordieria 

 and the American analogues named above it is very feeble, so that 

 on this ground as well as many others the association of Cordieria 

 and Scohinella by Try on was entirely unjustifiable. In fact the 

 Pleurotomid affinities of some of the forms assigned to Cordieria 

 stand in need of fuller confirmation. Turhinella ferexilis, of Conrad, 

 is a species having two strong columellar folds and is of uncertain 

 relationship. We do not appear to have the true Borsonia in 

 the American fauna, and Borsonia plenta, of Harris {Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1895, p. 63), cannot properly be referred to 

 that genus. Besides the species from Red Bluff and Vicksburg, 

 referred above to Scohinella, this genus will include PI. (Eucheilodon) 

 reticulatoides Harris (I.e., p. 63), from the Lower Claiborne of Texas. 

 The genus Eucheilodon, as represented by crenocarinatum of Heilprin, 

 differs from Scohinella in the form of the nucleus, this being very large, 

 probably indicating a slightly different line of descent. 



^ If Pleurotoma {Moniliopsis) elaborata Con., be included, as I believe to be 

 proper, the genus will have also species without columellar folds as is the case 

 with the genus MicrodriUia to be described below. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



MICKODRILLIA n. gen. 



A number of minute Pleurotomids, including injans and cossmanni 

 of Meyer, and harrisi of Aldrich, have been referred to by Cossmann 

 under the names Asthenotoma and Scohinella, by Harris under Mangilia, 

 by Aldrich under Glyphostoma, and by Meyer, Vaughan and others 

 under Pleurotoma in its broad sense. They are all very small and 

 characterized by a well-developed, multispiral, closely coiled embryo, 

 ha\'ing one to three of its basal whorls costulate, few body whorls 

 which are wholly devoid of costse but spirally carinate, the retral 

 sinus relatively large, circularly rounded and close to the suture, 

 the aperture oblique, columella callous, with or without plications, 

 and the canal short or subobsolete. 



The genus Microdrillia differs from Asthenotoma, to which cossmanni 

 was referred by Cossmann, in the structure of the embryo, and, espe- 

 cially, in the position of the retral sinus, which in Asthenotoma corre- 

 sponds in its greatest depth with the median line or periphery of the 

 whorls. In fact, there is only one American species known to me 

 which can properly be assigned to Asthenotoma, this being the PL 

 texana of Gabb. Microdrillia is much more closely related to Glypho- 

 stoma, as suggested by Aldrich, but is not at all allied to Mangilia. 

 It appears to have become wholly extinct in the Oligocene or Lower 

 Miocene. The species were numerous and individually abundant, 

 especially in the mid-Eocene of the Lower Claiborne, and those before 

 me may be readily identified by the following table : 



Columella without folds, 2 



Columella with numerous rather widely and evenly spaced folds ; shell thick and 

 heavy, the base angulate, not at all rostrate 8 



2 — Shell rhomboidal in profile, thick and strong, the ante-peripheral part but 

 little shorter than the entire portion behind the periphery of the body 

 whorl; revolving carinse very thick 3 



Shell more elongate, the ante-peripheral part always much shorter than the 

 post-peripheral, thinner and more delicate, with relatively fine carina?. . 4 



3 — Embrj'o small, evenly and broadly conical, of three smooth and one fineh' 

 costulate whorls ; body whorls four in number, each with three strong carinoe, 

 the lowermost carina first appearing generally on the second or third whorl: 

 lines of growth strongly marked, cancellating the body whorl; columella 

 subumbilicate in the type. Length 4.5 mm.; width 2 mm. Jacksonian 

 Eocene of Moody's Brancli, Miss., . . . [Pleurotoma] cossmanni Meyer 



\meyeri Coss.] 



Embryo similar in structure but much larger; body whorls generally not more 

 than three in number, each with two very thick carinae; columella not um- 

 bilicate in the specimens at hand ; lines of growth very fine, scarcely notice- 

 able. Length 2.8 mm., width 1.4 mm. Lower Claiborne Eocene. Vesey 

 Creek, Lee Co., Tex solidula, n. sp. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



4 — Peripheral carina at or above the middle of the whorls ; concave f asciolar sur- 

 face simple or with one or two fine simple revolving threads 5 



Peripheral carina below the middle of the whorls; beak well defined and rapidly 

 acuminate; fasciolar surface with a conspicuously beaded thread; embryo 

 with two or three smooth and about two costulate whorls; body whorls 

 three or four in number 7 



5 — Base of the shell distinctly rostrate; body whorls about four in number. 

 Form stout, the spire whorls short, about three times as wide as long, wth 

 a subduplex subsutural collar and three other single carinsc. the fasciolar 

 surface with two fine revolving threads ; beak short and broad ; lines of growth 

 strongly marked; embryo well developed as usual, higher than wide, ovulate 

 at tip, with three smooth and two costulate whorls. Length 5.7 mm., 

 width 2.3 mm. Lignitic Eocene. Wood's Bluff horizon, rostratula, n. sp. 



Base of the shell angularly acuminate, not at all rostrate; body whorls variable, 

 but never exceeding four as far as known 6 



6 — Embryo as ^nide as high, obtusely oval at tip, with three smooth and two 

 costulate whorls ; subsequent whorls four in number, each with one subsutural 

 and three other equal carinae; fasciolar surface -ndthout a revolving thread. 

 Length 5.6 mm., width 2.25 mm. Lower Claiborne Eocene. St. Maurice, 

 La robustula, n. sp. 



Embryo acutely conical, scarcely higher than wide, with three smooth and one 

 costulate whorls; subsequent whorls not more than two in number in any of 

 the three type specimens at hand, similar to those of robustula, but much 

 more slender. Length 2.3 mm., width 1 mm. Lower Claiborne Eocene. 

 St. Maurice, La minutissima, n. sp. 



Embryo larger and much more complex, evenly conical, as wide as high, with 

 two small smooth whorls and three finely and closely costulate, the latter 

 strongly convex near their basal margins; form rather stout; whorls two 

 in number in specimens at hand, the fasciolar surface without a revolving 

 thread. Length 3.9 mm., width L5 mm. Red Bluff Eocene. 



[Pleurotoma] injans Mej^er 



Emljryo nearly one-half higher than wide, subcylindrical, rapidly pointed at 

 tip, with three smooth and nearly three coarsely costulate whorls, the latter 

 strongly and more medially convex; subsequent whorls not exceeding four 

 in number, the fasciolar surface with a fine revolving thread ; shell much more 

 slender and elongate than in infans. Length of embryo alone \A mm., width 

 .8 mm. Upper Vicksburg Oligocene vicksburgeUa, n.sp. 



7 — Beaded thread below the middle of the fasciolar surface, a finer simple thread 

 between it and the subsutural carinule; granulations of the beaded thread 

 fine but distinct. Length of a specimen of 3.5 body whorls 6.7 mm., width 

 2.6 mm. Lower Claiborne Eocene. St. Maurice, La. 



[Pleurotoma] lerchi Vgn 



8 — Spire more rapidly narrowed toward apex, the embryo very small, of three 

 or four whorls, the lowermost apparently costulate; body whorls five to six 

 in number, each with subsutural and submedian coarse equal carinae and 

 a third, finer and less conspicuous, between the latter and the base; concave 

 fasciolar surface between the coarse carinae with a fine median revolving 

 thread; lines of growth well marked as usual; columella subumbilicate as a 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



rule. Length 6.5 mm., width 2.3 mm. Lower Claiborne Eocene. Moseley'.s 

 Ferrj'', Burleson Co., Tex aldrichiella, n. sp. 



Spire evenly, conically acuminate, the body whorls never exceeding four in num- 

 ber; embryo always larger and well developed 9 



9 — Revolving carinse as in aldrichiella, very coarse ; f asciolar surface with a more 

 or less distinct revolving thread; embryo as wide as high, conical, acutelj"^ 

 pointed, with three smooth and one costulate whorls; shell stout and thiclc. 

 Length 5 mm., width 2 mm. Lower Claiborne Eocene. Elm Creek, Lee 

 Co., Tex [Glijphostoma] harrisi Aid. 



Revolving carinse very much finer; shell narrower and more slender; embryo 

 well developed, higher than wide, acutely conical, with four smooth and 

 one costulate whorls ; f asciolar surface without a revolving thread ; columella 

 with four or more folds as usual in this group. Length of specimen with 

 three body whorls 4.5 mm., width 1.5 mm. Lower Claiborne Eocene. Elm 

 and Vesey creeks, Lee Co., Tex elongatula, n. sp. 



Revolving carinse fine as in elongatula, the shell similarly slender, difTering in 

 having two costulate embryonic whorls, a fine revolving thread in the 

 fasciolar surface and but two columellar folds; body whorls but two in 

 number in the type. Length 2.3 mm., width 1 mm. Red Bluff Eocene. 



biplicatula, n. sp. 



A species which is strikingly similar to the Lower Claiborne harrisi 

 was figured by Cossmann (Essais Pal. Comp., deux, liv., PI. VI, fig. 35) 

 under the name Scobinella Iceviplicata Gabb. It is said to have been 

 found at Jackson, Miss., by Meyer, but I have seen no plicate species 

 from that horizon. Cossmann's generic diagnosis of Scobinella is also 

 drawn from this figured " plesiotype, " and for this reason does not 

 apply to the Scobinella of Conrad at all. The true Iceviplicata is a 

 Eucheilodon and is perfectly synonymous with reticulata Gabb. The 

 reticulatoides of Harris is, however, a true Scobinella, the name being 

 therefore somewhat unfortunate as Scobinella and Eucheilodon are 

 amply distinct genera. 



Under the description of Pleurotoma infans {Geol. Surv. Ala., Bull. I, 

 p. 75) Meyer refers to a Vicksburg form under the name var. brevis. 

 This form is really not described at all and must be considered a list 

 name, it being simply stated that it is decidedly stouter than infans. 

 Even this statement, however, will not apply to the vicksburgella 

 defined above, which is more slender and elongate than infans and 

 differs radically in the form and sculpture of the embryo. 



Mr. Harris states {Bull. Am. Pal., Vol. 3, p. 24) that the Glyphostoma 

 harrisi of Aldrich is a synonym of infans Meyer. This is incorrect, as 

 subsequently held by Mr. Aldrich ; the two species are not at all closely 

 related. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



COCHLESPIRELLA n. gen. 

 The Fusus nanus, of Lea, belongs to a genus widely different from 

 Microdrillia, but allied more closely to Cochlespira of Conrad. The 

 genus, which will include also insignifica of Heilprin, which is not the 

 same as nanus according to some very accurate drawings of the types 

 very kindly lent me by Mr. Aldrich, and one or two undescribed Texan 

 forms, may take the above name. 



Conus scopularis n. sp. 



In the Red Bluff deposit there is a Conus, about the size of the 

 Vicksburgian alveatus, but with a much more depressed spire and 

 differing also in sculjoture to a marked degree. This species 

 differs also from any of the forms found in the Jacksonian. It is 

 rather broadly obconic in form, the exterior outhne of the body 

 whorl straight, becoming very broadly, feebly arcuate toward the 

 shoulder, just below which there are some two or three close-set and 

 very obsolete obliquely rugulose revolving striae. The anterior 

 oblique revolving striae are very feeble, subobsolete and occupy lower 

 third of the whorl. The oblique anterior columellar fold is feeble. 

 Spire extremely short and flattened, not more than an eighth or ninth 

 as long as the body whorl, the whorls flat, each with five strong revolv- 

 ing lyrce separated by equally large grooves, the arcuate Hues of growth 

 very distinct, producing a beaded or scabrous appearance. Length 

 28 mm., width 16.5 mm. The fine striae on the face of the body whorl 

 at the top and parallel to the acute shoulder angle distinguish this spe- 

 cies at once from any in the adjacent horizons. 



The species named Bursa mississippiensis by Conrad, in the list of 

 1865, is, in all probabiHty, the young of Triton conradianus Aid., of 

 the Red Bluff horizon. I have found this species in the Lower Vicks- 

 burg. Bursa ahhreviata is, however, a distinct species, moderately 

 abundant in the upper marl at Vicksburg, to which it is confined, as 

 is also Dist07^sio crassidens. Tritonopsis suhalveata, of Conrad, is 

 confined to the Lower Vicksburgian, like Bursa mississippiensis. 



Plios macilentus n. sp. 



Phos mississippiensis, of Conrad, occurs in both horizons at Mcks- 

 burg, but does not occur at Red Bluff. The species of the Red Bluff 

 formation, which has hitherto been confounded with it, may take 

 the name indicated. It is much narrower and more elongate than 

 mississippiensis. The ribs are more numerous, finer and not so nodu- 

 lose at the points where they are crossed by the revolving sculpture. 

 The revolving lines are subequal among themselves, finer than in mis- 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



sissippiensis and not so strongly alternating in size. Length of a 

 specimen of six body whorls 14 mm., width 4 mm. P. mississippiensis 

 seldom has more than five body whorls, and an average specimen 

 measures 13.5 mm. by 5 mm. 



Fhos falsus n. sp. 



I have before me a remarkable Red Bluff Phos, which may be named 

 falsus. It is very much larger than macilentus, though nearly as slender. 

 The nucleus is as in that species and mississippiensis, consisting of 

 four whorls, the lowest of which is sculptured with very fine obliquely 

 sigmoid riblets. The body whorls are six in number, with rather 

 ■vsddely spaced longitudinal ribs, some eight in number, subequal 

 among themselves on the first four whorls, but then becoming very 

 widely spaced and finally completely disappearing, leaving the surface 

 even; the revolving fines are distinct but not very coarse, and are 

 mutually separated on the larger whorls by two or three fine, closely 

 spaced threads. The type before me has a strong rounded varix on 

 the sixth whorl and another forming the outer lip. Length 19 mm., 

 width 6 mm. 



Metula fastidiosa n. sp. 



In the Red Bluff bed there is an apparently undescribed Metula 

 greatly resembling gracilis Johnson, from the Lower Claiborne of Texas 

 {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 75, PL II, fig. 3). This species, 

 which may be named as above, has a smaller and more rapidly 

 pointed spire than gracilis, and has a greater number of varices. The 

 nucleus is simple, smooth, rather higher than wide, ogivally pointed 

 and of about three whorls, the subsequent whorls five in number, 

 broadly, evenly rounded at the sides in profile, each with a feebly ele- 

 vated fiattened varix, relatively rather wide, on which the longitudinal 

 ribbing becomes obsolete and the revolving lyrae also obsolete except 

 on the body whorl, where they continue uninterruptedly over the 

 varix, which here becomes relatively still wider though so slightly 

 elevated as to be scarcely definable. The ribs are small, and, from varix 

 to varix on the spire whorls, about 32 in number; on these Avhorls 

 the revolving grooves are about 10 in number, and, with the exception 

 of the two posterior and one finer anterior, do not cross the ribs but 

 appear as short excavated lines between them; on the body whorl, 

 however, all the grooves cross the ribs but are reduced in width on 

 their summits ; the ribs on the body whorl are also somewhat changed 

 in character, being notably less steep in cross-section on the side l3dng 

 in the direction of the growth of the shell. The columella is thickened 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



anteriorly below the middle and the aperture and canal together are 

 half as long as the shell. Outer lip with a plicate band parallel with 

 the edge at a short distance therefrom. Length 15.5 mm., width 

 about 6 mm. 



Metula frag-ilis n. sp. 



This is apparently the direct descendant of fastidiosa in the Upper 

 ^^icksburg marl and is a much larger species, with more numerous and 

 relatively much finer and more close-set ribs ; it is very thin and deli- 

 cate in substance, very rare and always occurs in a fragmentary 

 condition. From a fragment before me I am able to compute 

 the diameter of the body whorl to be about 10 mm. The longitudinal 

 riblets are at least 90 in number, and the revolving lines on the largest 

 whorl of the spire about 20. No varices can be seen on the fragments 

 before me. The revolving grooves are shallow, those near the base 

 and apex of the whorls broader and more thoroughly obliterating the 

 ribs. The ribs are broadly arcuate longitudinally. The length of 

 the specimen at hand must have been at least 25 mm. The shell walls 

 are composed of three layers, of which the inner, very thin, and the 

 outer, thicker, are solid and amorphous in texture, the two separated 

 by a very thin layer of prismatic structure having the fibres perpen- 

 dicular to the surface. 



Olivella affluens n. sp. 



There are two very distinct species of Olivella occurring abund- 

 antly in the Vicksburg strata. One of these, which may be assumed 

 to be the typical mississippiensis, has the nucleus small, of .very few 

 whorls and the nucleal sutures obliterated. The whorls of the spire are 

 completely unexcavated along the anterior edge. The other species, 

 named as above, is as common as mississippiensis; it is rather smaller, 

 the nucleus being, however, much larger, very obtuse, composed of 

 about three whorls having the sutures all distinct and impressed. Each 

 whorl of the spire has a deep and clearly defined revolving groove at 

 the lower margin, which is entirely wanting in mississippiensis . The 

 anterior folds of the colimiella are less oblique than in that species. 

 Length of a moderately large specimen, having four body whorls beside 

 the nucleus, 14.5 mm., width 5.7 mm. The aperture is somewhat nar- 

 row, and is rather less than two-thirds the total length of the shell. 

 The differences between these two species are at least subgeneric. 



It would seem to me that Fulgur spiniger and nodulatum, of Conrad, 

 are distinct species and not mere varieties of one. I have collected a 

 number of specimens of spiniger, and there is no marked variability 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



to be perceived. Spiniger is confined to the Upper Mcksburg marl, 

 while nodulatum has occurred thus far only in the Lower Mcksburg 

 limestone. The latter differs in both form and sculpture from 

 spiniger, but varies of course in the relative amount of shoulder exposed 

 above the suture, as is generally the case throughout the genus. The 

 fornj occurring at Red Bluff differs from spiniger in its larger size, 

 rather more elongated form, feebler sculpture, less strongly differen- 

 tiated whorLs of the spire, and more feebly developed spines of the spire 

 whorls, also in usually having traces of a fine subobsolete, remotely and 

 minutely subnodulose line at some distance below the spinose shoulder 

 line. It may not be more than a subspecies of spiniger, but resembles 

 that species more closely than nodulatum, from the intermediate beds 

 constituting the Lower Vicksburg, a case very similar to that before 

 referred to under Mactra. 



Lyria nestor n. sub-sp. 



The Lyria misssisippiensis , of Conrad, moderately abundant in 

 the Upper Vicksburg marl, is represented in the Red Bluff bed by 

 this form which must be regarded as at least subspecifically distinct. 

 It is much more elongate in outline than the Vicksburg species, and 

 is more distinctly sculptured. The longitudinal ribbing is more 

 obtasely rounded and less distinct. The length of a moderately large 

 specimen is about 43 mm., with a maximum width of 18 mm. It is 

 accurately figured by Dall {Trans. Wag. Inst., Ill, PI. 6) under the 

 name Lyria costata Sowerby, and, in his opinion, both this and the 

 Vicksburg form are varieties of that European species. The Vicks- 

 burg and Red Bluff forms are, however, distinctly differentiated in 

 facies and each holds to its own type through very extended series, 

 without exhibiting much variability. 



Conrad's type of Conomitra staminea is apparently unique avS far as 

 the Vicksburg strata are concerned, and, from the matrix that partially 

 envelops it, would appear to have come from the upper marl. It is 

 a small species, about the size of the Claibornean fusoides and somewhat 

 of the same form. The revolving grooves are deep and do not cross 

 the ribs, thus forming short and very conspicuous excavated lines, 

 nearly as in Fu^imitra cellulifera Conrad. The species figured by Dr. 

 Dall {I.e., PL 4, fig. 2) is quite e\ddently distinct from staminea, and 

 is a much larger species. It also seems to be distinct from angulata 

 Heilp. The specimen figured by Dr. DaU has five body whorls and 

 measures 15 mm. in length. A specimen of the true staminea, 

 recently lent me by Mr. Aldrich and found at Byram's Ferry, having 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



four l)ody whorls, measures only 8.5 mm. in extreme length. I have 

 collected a number of specimens of M. vickshurgensis at Vicksburg, and 

 feel sure that this is also distinct from staminea, ha\dng no suggestion 

 of the peculiar deep coarse revolving sculpture of that species. 



The Mitra mississippiensis of Conrad is a specimen of conquisita 

 iu which the revolving lyration covers the entire body whorl ; it is gen- 

 erally effaced on the upper parts of this whorl in half-grown and older 

 individuals, but occasionally persists until rather late in the growth of 

 the shell. Millingtoni is a different species . 



The Capulus occurring at Vicksburg is apparently different from 

 americanus of the Jacksonian, at least subspecifically. It is extremely 

 rare at Vicksburg and has been found thus far only in the upper marl. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



March 3. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin BRO"^Tsr, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled "Studies in American Forficiihdse/' by James A. 

 G. Rehn, was presented for publication. 



March 10. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



March 17. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



The death of Lewis Woolman, a member, on the 13th inst., was 

 announced. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



"The Mutation, of Hibiscus moscheutos L.," by John W. Harsh- 

 berger. 



"A Note on the Common Bottle-nose Porpoise of the North Atlantic, 

 Tursiops truncatus (Montagu)," by Frederick W. True. 



"Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, No. VIII," by Henry 

 A. Pilsbry. 




1903.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 285 



March 24. 



Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled ''Life Colors of Poecilia limantouri and Description 

 of a new Heros from Mexico," by Henry W. Fowler, was presented for 

 publication. 



The following minute on the death of Lewis Woolman was unani- 

 mously adopted: 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia desires to place 

 on record its appreciation of the loss it has sustained in the death of 

 Lewis Woolman, who, since his election to membership in 1884, has 

 manifested a constant interest in the w^ell-being of the society. His 

 work in connection with the geology of New Jersey and eastern Penn- 

 sylvania, especially as illustrated by the boring of artesian wells, formed 

 a valuable addition to knowledge. He was thorough and accurate 

 in his methods, while his intercourse with his fellow-members was 

 characterized by a hearty cheerfulness and sincerity. He was active 

 in promoting the interests of the Biological as well as those of the 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section, and during the latter months of 

 his life he rendered service to the Academy as a member of the Commit- 

 tee on Accounts. His memory will be held in grateful recollection. 



March 31. 



Charles Schaeffer. M.D., in the Chair. 



Ten persons present. 



The death of William V. McKean, a member, on the 29th inst., 

 was announced. 



Charles Z. Tryon was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




286 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Maich, 



THE VARIATIONS OF EUT^NIA IN THE PACIFIC SUBREGION. 



BY ARTHUR ERWIX BROWX. 



The portion of the Pacific coast of North America occupied by the 

 garter snakes extends from about latitude 50° in British Columbia 

 to the neighborhood of 33° in southern California/ and exhibits great 

 variety of soil and climate, especially in the extremes of dryness and 

 humidity. The annual rainfall at Puget Sound has reached a hundred 

 and thirty inches, while at Yuma, in southeastern California, the aver- 

 age is little more than three. Under these circumstances, and having 

 in mind the ease with which color in reptiles is acted upon b}' external 

 conditions, of which there is reason to believe that moisture is one of 

 the most active, it is not surprising that color variation should reach 

 a maximum in a group of snakes which, through diversity of habit, 

 occupy practically every station open to their kind. Many species 

 and subspecies have been established from this region upon examples 

 so few in number as to form an altogether inadequate foundation in 

 a genus where the range of variation is as great as it is known to be 

 in Eutcenia — or is known, at least, to all but those naturalists who 

 establish uniformity by the easy process of attaching a name to every 

 difference, without regard to its nature or its biological significance. 



Efforts to bring these supposed forms into some sort of order have 

 been made in late years by Mr. G. A. Boulenger,^ J\Ir. John Van Den- 

 burgh^ and the present writer,^ but it must be admitted that the assig^i- 

 ment of some intermediates has been accomplished in part by the exer- 

 cise of that mode of judgment which has been termed "the naturalist's 

 instinct." Some material now in my possession bears directly upon 

 the cpiestions of identity involved in E. elegans and E. infernalis, 

 and their interesting character has led me to review all the garter 

 snakes of the region in question. 



The list following contains the names of all the species and subspe- 

 cies within my knowledge, with the date of establishment and the 



^ Eutcenia eques Reuss. has been found in the peninsula of Lower California, 

 and others may yet be taken in tliat little-known region. 



^ Catalogue of Snakes in Bi-itish Museum, ^'ol. I, p. 192, et seq. (1893). 



* Occasional Papers California Academy of Sciences, \, p. 199, et seq. (1897). 



* Proceedings Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1901, p. 18, et seq. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



type locality, which have been founded upon snakes belonging to the 

 genus from this region, or whose range has been extended to enter it. 

 Those admitted here are printed in capitals : 



Coluber parietalis Say (1823). Missouri river near Council Bluffs. 



Coluber infernalis Blain. (1835). California. 



Tropidonotus ordinoides B. and G. (1852). Puget Sound. 



Tropidonotus concinnus Hallow. (1852). Oregon. 



EuT.ENiA pickeringi B. and G. (1853). Puget Sound. 



EuT.ENiA leptocephala B. and G. (1853). Puget Sound. 



Eutcenia dorsalis B. and G. (1853). Rio Grande, Texas. 



EuT^NiA ELEGANS B. and G. (1853). El Dorado county, Cal. 



EuT^NiA VAGRANS B. and G. (1853). Cahfornia. 



Tropidonotus trivittatus Hallow. (1853). California. 



Eutcenia couchi Kenn. (1857). Pitt river, Shasta county, Cal. 



Eutcenia atrata Kenn. (1860). California. 



Eutcenia cooperi Kenn. (1860). Washington (?). 



EuTJENiA HAMMONDi Kenn. (1860). San Diego county, Cal. 



E. sirtalis tetratoenia Cope (1875). Pitt river and Puget Sound. 



Eutoenia henshawi Yarrow (1884). Walla Walla, Wash. 



EuT.ENiA BiscuTATA Cope (1883). Klamath Lake, Oregon. 



E. elegans plutonia Cope (1892)^type of E. henshawi Yarr. 



E. elegans hrunnca Cope (1892). Fort Bid well, Cal. 



E. elegans lineolata Cope (1892). No definite type. 



E. infernalis infernalis Cope (1892). Fresno and San Francisco. 



E. infernalis vidua Cope (1892)^types of E. atrata Kenn. 



E. sirtcdis trilineata Cope (1892). Port Townsend, Ore. 



These names, twenty- three in number, appear to me to be reducible 

 to three species, two of which present three forms each, sufficient in num- 

 ber and constant enough in character, or so associated with a restricted 

 area of distribution as to compel recognition as subspecies; or seven 

 forms in all,^ the special features of which are capable of being arranged 

 in a key which will cover all cases but the few anomalies upon which 

 individual judgment is required. 



A. — Scales in 21 rows ; upper labials 8 : 



a. — Body moderately stout; head and eye rather small ; posterior 

 chin-shields equal or very little longer than anterior 

 {E. elegans) : 



^ Mr. Van Denburgh admits the same forms, but like values are not attached 

 to them in all cases. Mr. Boulenger reduces them still further to five. As the 

 only purpose of this paper is to analyze the various type specimens, no attempt 

 is made to give references beyond the original descriptions. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March 



a'. — Usually 1 preocular: 



Black wdth three Hght stripes; or brown or red uith 

 stripes and spots distinct ; no nuchal blotches ; head 



smaller, E. e. elegans. 



Greenish-ohve ; stripes and spots not very distinct; 

 nuchal blotches often present; ventrals often dark; 



head larger, E. e. vagrans. 



h'. — Usually 2 preoculars; often 23 rows; color like vagrans 



or darker, E.e. bismtata. 



h. — Body slender; posterior chin-shields much longer than an- 

 terior; brown, usually \\dthout stripes; spots small and 



irregular, E. hammondi 



B. — Scales in 19 rows; upper labials 7; posterior chin-shields much 

 longer than anterior {E. sirtalis) : 

 a. — Body stout; head moderatety large: 



Brown or black ; upper row of spots often fused into a stripe ; 



usually red on sides, E.s. parietalis. 



Usually black, with three hght stripes, . . E. s. pickeringi. 



b. — Body small ; head and eye small ; often 17 rows and 6-8 labials ; 



color variable, E.s. leptocephala. 



Eutaenia elegans. 



Baird and Girard, Catalogue of North American Serpents, p. 34 (1853). 



This species has in nearly ever}^ case 8 upper labials and 21 rows of 

 scales, of which the outer is either smooth or very faintly keeled, but 

 an occasional example has 19 rows, or in one form 23. and the labials are 

 sometimes 7. Lateral stripe on the second and third rows. The head 

 is small and delicately formed ; the eye moderately small, and the poste- 

 rior chin-shields are about equal to the anterior ones or very little 

 longer. The throat and chin are almost invariably yellowish. It is 

 to be observed that two species found together in California, E. elegans 

 and E. sirtalis parietalis, occasionally exhibit the scale and labial for- 

 mula of the other, and very rarely the former may have posterior 

 chin-shields as long as the shortest of the latter, and a very similar 

 color variety occurs in each; but when elegans has 19 rows or 7 lalsials 

 it may almost always be distinguished from any form of E. sirtalis by 

 its short hinder chin-shields, and from any but E. s. leptocepJiala by its 

 small head and eye. 



Three subspecies are to be admitted. 



Eutsenia elegans elegans. 



Eutccma elegans B. and G., Cat. No. Am. Serp., p. 34 (1853). 

 Tropidonotus trivittatus Hallow., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1853, p. 237. 

 E. elegans lineolata (part) Cope, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 6.55 (1892). 

 E. inf emails infernalis Cope, I. c, p. 657 (not Coluber infernalis Blain.). 



Baird and Girard's type of E. elegans was almost ])lack in color, with 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



the three hght stripes well defined, and had 21 rows of scales; their 

 second specimen had 19 rows and the dorsal spots were visible against 

 the dark ground. 



Seven living garter snakes received at the Zoological Gardens of 

 Philadelphia in May, 1902, from a collector at Oakland, Cal., throw 

 much light upon the variations of this form. 



Specimens a. b, c, d, measuring from 270 to 290 mm. in length, coi 

 respond in color to typical elegans, the three pale yellow stripes being 

 on a brownish-black ground so dark that the spots are barely visible. 

 Two have 21 dorsal rows and 8 upper labials; one has them 21 and 7; 

 one has 19 and 8. 



The three others are of mature size and much significance. 



Specimen e, 733 mm. long (tail 175), has 19 rows of scales, the outer 

 weakly keeled, and 8 labials. Ventrals 163; subcaudals 87. The 

 whole dorsal color between the spots, more or less of the outer row of 

 scales, and the entire center of the belly are bright red. The spots are 

 distinct and number about 94 in each row, to the vent. The dorsal 

 stripe is orange-yellow and the laterals paler, more buff, but much 

 marked with red. The small parietal spots and those on the ends of 

 the ventrals, common in many species, are present and the upper por- 

 tion of the labial sutures are slightly margined with dark shading. The 

 portion of the ventral surface not red is pale green. This specimen is 

 the most brilliant and beautiful Eutcenia I have ever seen. 



Specimen /, 800 mm. long (tail 184), has 19 rows of scales, the outer 

 faintly keeled, or smooth in places ; 8 upper labials which are yellowish- 

 olive slightly bordered wnth black, ^^entrals 168 ; subcaudals 72. The 

 dorsal stripe is bright yellow, and the laterals red. Body color dark 

 brownish-black, the upper row of spots being entirely obscured, the 

 lower row, 84 in number, showing as downward prolongations of the 

 black from above, and separated by not very distinct patches of 

 red just above the lateral stripe. This portion of the color pattern 

 closely resembles some examples of E. s. parietalis. The belly is 

 yellowish-olive in the center, slightly marked with red, the pattern of 

 this part corresponding exactly to that colored red in e. The ends of 

 the ventrals and the outer row of scales are olive-brown. No parietal 

 spots and no distinct spots on the ends of the ventrals, but their bases 

 are slightly dusky. This snake is E. infernalis infernalis Cope. 



Specimen g, 880 mm. long (tail 210), has 21 rows, the outer partly 

 keeled and partly smooth, and 8 upper labials. Ventrals 167; sub- 

 caudals 72. In pattern it is like e, but the body color is mostly brown 

 instead of red, this last showing only on a single scale here and there, 

 19 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maich, 



especially on the lateral stripe. There are about 90 spots in each row, 

 the upper not very distinct. The belly is pale olive with small spots 

 on the ends of many ventrals. Xo parietal spots and the labials very 

 shghtly margined. All these specimens have the small fine head, the 

 short posterior chin-shields and the yellow throat and chin of E. 

 elegaris, and notwithstanding their wdde difference in color, their specific 

 unity is established by the fortunate fact that specimen g was a female, 

 gravid at the time of death, and I removed from her thirteen young, 

 twelve of which are typical elegans in color, being so dark that the spots 

 are barely ^-isible, and corresponding exactly to specimens a, h, c, d. 

 The thirteenth is also dark, but when first taken from the mother 

 showed red markings on the flanks like those of specimen /. This red 

 has almost entirely disappeared after twelve weeks in spirits. All 

 of these young snakes have 21 rows of scales; ten have 8 labials; three 

 have 7 on one side. The temporals range from 1-2-3 to 2-3-1. We 

 have, then, unborn young exhibiting the colors of elegans B. and G. 

 and infernalis infernalis Cope, the one resembling the latter having the 

 scales and labials of elegans, contained in the oviducts of a female 

 which, differing from both in color, departs in no other way from the 

 features of elegans. If the red, which is a purely individual acquisition, 

 were omitted, specimen g would come very close to E. e. lineolata Cope, 

 some of which are referable to the present subspecies and some to E. e. 

 vagrans. 



Tropidonotus trivittatus Hallow, is no more than a typical elegans 

 with 19 rows. 



E. e. elegans appears to occur only in California, from Shastha in the 

 north down to the San Bernardino mountains, beyond which it seems 

 not to extend. 



Eutsenia elegans vagrans. 



Eutcenia va-grans B. and G., Cat. Xo. Am. Serp., p. 35 (1853).® 



Eutcenia couchi Kenn., U. S. Pac. R. R. Surv., X, Pt. 4, p. 10 (1857). 



Eutcenia henshaxci Yarrow, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VI, p. 152 (1884). 



E. elegans plutonia Cope, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 653 (1892), and 



Rep. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1898, p. 1035. 

 E. elegans brunnea Cope, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 654 (1892). 

 E. elegans lineolata (part) Cope, I. c, p. 655. 



This form ranges over the higher portion of the great plains, from 

 w^hence it has penetrated through the valleys of the Snake and the Co- 

 lumbia rivers to the western coast. It is the garter snake of the 

 Sierras and the Rocky mountains. I have taken it at 6,000 feet eleva- 



• Eutcenia kennicotti Jan (Arch. Zool. Anal, and Phys., Ill, 1865, p. 216), with 

 21 rows and 8 labials, may belong here, but the description is vague, and the 

 only locality given is northern United States. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



tion in Montana, and two of the Academy's specimens were collected 

 by Dr. Henry Skinner at Sapello, New Mexico, at an altitude of 10,000 

 feet. 



The scutellation is similar to E. e. elegans, but the body is on an 

 average larger and of stouter build. The head is larger and the eye 

 relatively small. 



The color is almost always greenish or light olive, with the pale yel- 

 low stripes narrow, not distinct, and often encroached upon by the 

 small and ill-defined spots. An occasional example is l^rown, but 

 vagraiis, notwithstanding its extensive range, varies less than elegans. 

 Usually there is a pair of dark nuchal blotches and the ventrals are 

 more or less clouded with dark slate. While ordinary specimens are 

 sufficiently distinct from elegans, there are intermediates in the western 

 portion of its range, such as those called E. e. lineolata Cope, which 

 reduce elegans and vagrans to the rank of subspecies. 



No examples of E. e. hrunnea Cope are known but the two types 

 collected at Fort Bidwell, Cal. These anomalies might almost as 

 well be regarded as E. e. elegans, but their robust build and the locality 

 whence they came incline me to refer them to the present form. 



The type of E. couchi Kenn. came from Pitt river, Cal., three hun- 

 dred miles north of the known limit of E. hamnioncli, with which it has 

 commonly been associated, and I agree with ^'an Denburgh in regard- 

 ing the specimen as an anomalous vagrans. 



There does not seem to be any reason to consider Cope's type of 

 E. e. plutonia, from Walla Walla, Washington, as anything more than a 

 melanistic vagrans. It is to be observed that Yarrow had already 

 given the name of E. henshawi to this specimen, at the same time 

 describing Cope's second example, from western Arizona, as E. vagrans 

 plutonia. 



Eutaenia elegans biscutata. 



Eutania biscutata Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1SS3, p. 21. 



In western Oregon and Washington, and especially in the humid 

 northwestern portion of the last state, E. e. vagrans is largely replaced 

 by snakes generally similar but with a decided tendency toward melan- 

 ism, and having usually two or three preoculars and sometimes 

 23 rows of scales. The types of E. biscutata were almost black and 

 came from Klamath Lake, Ore., the most easterly locality from which 

 it has been known, and where the rainfall is heavy. The association 

 of these tendencies with a restricted area of distribution seems to 

 require that it shall be recognized as a subspecies of E. elegans. 




292 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Eutaenia sirtalis. 



Coluber sirtalis L., Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 222 (1758). 



The usual scutellation in this species is 19 rows and 7 upper labials, 

 a formula which is very constant in the east, but in western forms 17 

 to 21 rows, or 6 to 8 labials sometimes occur. The lateral stripe is on 

 the second and third rows. Compared with E. elegans it is larger 

 and stouter, with a moderately large head. The posterior chin- 

 shields are much longer than the anterior. East of the Mississippi 

 river red is rarely developed, but I have seen one £'.s.sir/a//s from North 

 Carolina which showed much of that color upon the sides, and another 

 from Pennsylvania, in my own collection, is marked slightly Avith it 

 on the flanks, but from the great plains westward there is a general 

 disposition in reptiles to develop red, and it is more or less present 

 in most subspecies of E. sirtalis from those parts. 



Eutaenia sirtalis parietalis- 



Coluber parietalis Say, Long's Exp. to Rocky Mts., I, p. 186 (1823). 

 Coluber infernalis Blainville, Nouv. Ann. Hist. Nat., IV, 1835, p. 291, PI. 



XXVI, fig. 3. 

 Tropidonotus concinnus Hallow., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852, p. 182. 

 Eidcenia dorsalis B. and G., Cat. No. Am. Serp., p. 31 (1853). 

 Eutcenia ordinoides B. and G., I. c, p. 33. 

 E. sirtalis tetratcenia Cope {Fide Yarrow) ; U. S. Geol. Surv. W. of 100th 



Mer., V, p. 546 (1875), and Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 664. 

 E. sirtalis trilineata (part) Cope, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 665 (1892). 



E. s. parietalis has a range quite as wide as E. e. vagrans, for while 

 it is absent from Arizona, and appears to be rare in Utah, it extends 

 farther to the east on the plains. The scutellation is 19 rows and 

 7 labials, but now and then it has 8 labials, and more rarely 21 rows. 

 It is ordinarily dark brown, with the spots more or less obscured and 

 the lower row separated by red which shows on the skin and usually on 

 the scales in hfe, though much of it quickly fades in spirits. The small 

 dark spots on the ends of the ventrals and the dark margins to the 

 labials are either present or absent. The belly is yellow, various 

 shades of slate, or almost black in dark specimens. The outer row of 

 scales is often smooth, but sometimes weakly keeled. 



There is much difference in the amount and distribution of the red, 

 especially in those from the Pacific coast, and there is a tendency 

 toward melanism, strongly marked in the moist region of Oregon and 

 Washington. In conformity with the law of color development in 

 snakes this excess of pigment shows first upon the dorsal surface 

 adjacent to the vertebral stripe, sometimes obscuring part or the 

 whole of the upper row of spots {E. dorsalis) ; when it extends down 

 far enough to reach the upper border of the lower row, these are left as 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



downward prolongations of the upper dark area, with red markings 

 between (E. parietalis); when it extends to the lateral stripe all the 

 spots arc obliterated (E. pickeringi) . A Very few individuals show 

 the bottom part of the lower row also obscured, leaving a series of 

 red spots above {E. concinna) ; or the red has spread longitudinally, 

 forming a red stripe between two black ones (E. s. tetratcenia) . 



Of the above, the few specimens of E. dorsalis came from the Rio 

 Grande valley, in New iMexico" and Texas, except one fugitive noted 

 by Cope from Portland, Ore., thirteen hundred miles away. Of ' the 

 three tetratcenia which Cope is able to name, two, in the U. S. National 

 Museum, came from Pitt river, Cal., while the third. No. 6,085 in the 

 Academy's collection, from Puget Sound, originally entered as con- 

 cinna, has the lower black stripe broken up into spots anteriorly. A 

 smaller snake in the same jar as this specimen, and apparently collected 

 with it, is an ordinary parietalis. Hallowell's type of Tropidonotns 

 concinnus (No. 6,324, Academy collection) is also marked on the 

 label 'tetratcenia" by Cope. All these specimens have now been fifty 

 years in spirits. The three concinna cited by Cope all came from western 

 Oregon. 



With the exception of E. s. pickeringi, these selections of special 

 cases in a physiological process appear to me quite arbitrary, and if 

 the correctness of the method is once admitted, an indefinite number 

 of others may as well be allowed. 



Baird and Girard's type of Tropidonotns ordinoidcs'^ came from 

 Puget Sound, and the original description cannot be reconciled with 

 that given of California specimens under the same name by these 

 authors in their Catalogue of the following year. The type was prob- 

 ably an E. s. leptocephala. Those subsequently described had 19-21 

 rows of scales, and the chief difference from ordinary parietalis was 

 that the lateral spots were reddish-brown instead of red. A Cahfornia 

 example is figured by Baird^ with the form of head and the long posterior 

 chin-shields of parietalis, and 8 labials, but as the last-named species 

 sometimes exhibits this number, it seems safe to refer ordinoides here, 

 rather than to regard it with Cope as a subspecies of E. elegans. 



E. infernalis infernalis Cope has been shown to be E. e. elegans, but 

 Coluber infernalis Blain. occupies a somewhat doubtful position through 

 the insufficiency of the original description and plate. Bocourt' adds 

 that it has 19 rows and 7 labials, which is the common formula for 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852, p. 176. 

 ^Pac. R. R. Report, PI. XXVI, fig. 3. 

 8 Bull. Soc. Zool. de France, 1892, p. 40. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



parietalis, while his figures of Blainville's specimen^° suggest this species 

 rather than clegans; and as Cahfornia examples of both these forms 

 sometimes exhibit the injernalis style of coloring, I see no reason at 

 present to regard Blainville's type as anything more than the present 

 species. 



Eutaenia sirtalis pickeringi. 



Eutcenia 'pickeringi B. and G., Cat. No. Am. Serp., p. 27 (1853). 



E. sirtalis trilineata (part) Cope, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 665 (1892). 



In the extreme west of Oregon and Washington, and especially about 

 Puget Sound, a region of much moisture, melanism reaches an extreme 

 and fairly constant degree in E. s. 'pickeringi B. and G. and E. s. tri- 

 lineata Cope, the diflferences between which are trivial." 



E. s. 'pickeringi seems to be entitled to rank as a well-marked geo- 

 graphical form, always so dark as to obscure the spots, stripes usually 

 narrow, very distinct and variable in color, occasionally a little red on 

 the sides, and the ventral surface alwaj^s more or less dark, sometimes 

 entirely black. 



Eutaenia sirtalis leptocephala. 



{1)Tropidonotus ordinoides B. and G., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.Phila.,1852, p. 176. 



Eutcenia lepiocephala B. and G., Cat. No. Am. Serp., p. 29 (1853). 



Eutcenia atrata and E. cooperi Kenn., Pac. R. R. Surv., XII, Pt. 2, p. 296 



(1860). 

 E. infernalis vidua Cope, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 658 (1892). 



This variable form is somewhat small in size and relatively stout; the 

 head and eye are notably smaller than in other subspecies of E. sirtalis, 

 and even more so than in E. e. elegans. 



The rows of scales are 17 or 19, the outer either smooth or keeled; upper 

 labials usually 7, but sometimes 6 or 8; preoculars occasionally 2 and 

 in a few cases 3. Posterior chin-shields much longer than the anterior. 

 The color is olive, greenish or blackish-brown, the three light stripes 

 variable in colorand sometimes absent; spots small and hardly to be seen 

 in dark specimens ; labials sometimes narrowly margined ; parietal spots 

 present; ventrals 139-152, yellow, greenish or dark slate. Some indi- 

 viduals with 19 rows and 7 labials so nearly resemble certain phases 

 of E. s. parietalis or E. s. pickeringi, and in fact some eastern E. s. 

 sirtalis, that I cannot regard it as more than a subspecies, occuppng 

 British Columbia, western Washington and Oregon and northern 

 California. 



E. cooperi Kenn. is clearly referable to this form. It has already 

 been pointed out that the type of Tropiclonotus ordinoides B. and G. 



1" Miss. Sci. au Mexique, etc., PI. 55, figs. 2, 2a, 2b. 



'^ Cope's examples of trilineata from Fort Benton, Montana, are probably E. s. 

 parietalis. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



(1852) was perhaps a leptocephala, but the fact cannot now be verified, 

 and a mere possibiUty should not be allowed to disturb existing 

 nomenclature. 



E. infernalis vidua Cope was founded upon Kennicott's original 

 specimens of E. atrata. One of these is now No. 6,359 (original num- 

 ber 970) in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, and there 

 is a second, No. 6,584, marked vidua in Cope's handwriting. Both of 

 these specimens are labeled "San Francisco." I have elsewhere 

 stated^^ that Cope's description is not accurate in details and have 

 given my reasons for assigning these specimens to leptocephala. Mr. 

 Van Denburgh considers them to be E. e. elegans, and states that this 

 color form has been found only on the coast slope of the peninsula of 

 San Francisco, and questions the occurrence of leptocephala in CaU- 

 fornia. In consequence, I have reexamined the two examples of vidua 

 and am still inclined to refer them to leptocephala, leaving the geogra- 

 phical part of the problem for further investigation.^^ 



In any event vidua would be no more than a synonym of atrata. 



Eutsenia hammondi. 



Eutcenia havimondi Kenn., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 332. 



Hammond's garter snake does not range north of Fresno county, 

 Cal., but extends southeastward into the plains of Arizona. 



The scuteUation is that of E. elegans, but the body is slender, the 

 head is narrow and elongated and the posterior chin-shields are much 

 longer. The color is grayish or olive-brown; dorsal stripe narrow, 

 indistinct or absent; the spots are always indistinct and sometimes 

 absent, though indicated by black clots on many scales. Ventral sm- 

 face yellowish, often with dark bases to the scuta, and at times 

 clouded with slate toward the tail; this usually forms a line along the 

 sutures between the subcaudals. Parietal spots and nuchal blotches 

 present ; labials dark bordered, and a more or less evident pale post-oral 

 crescent. 



This form has been regarded by some authors, including myself, as 

 a subspecies of E. elegans, but further study of fresh material has 

 satisfied me that it is distinct enough in character and geographical 

 range to be admitted to specific rank. 



^""Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 30. 



'■' There may be a doubt as to the exact locaHties where the specimens on which 

 vidua was founded were collected. Kennicott gave none in the original descrip- 

 tion of E. atrata, but in a footnote Dr. Cooper, the naturalist of the survey, says 

 "California." The one in the Academy's collection is labeled "San Francisco," 

 but there is also in the collection an undoubted leptocephala of about the same 

 date, bearing a like label. San Francisco has always been the point at which 

 all California interests center. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF ' [March, 



The only other name with which it has l^een confused is E. couchi 

 Kenn., which has been shown to be in all probability an aberrant 

 E.e. vagrans. 



The geographical relations of the species here discussed are as fol- 

 lows : E. e. elegans meets with E. e. vagrans and E. s. parietolis through- 

 out its range. At its southern extension it is overlapped by E. ham- 

 niondi and at its northern it touches E. s. leptocephala. E. e. vagrans 

 meets E. hammondi in California, and is in contact with E. s. parie- 

 talis almost everywhere except in Arizona, although the latter does 

 not appear to ascend as high in the mountains. In the northwest it 

 merges into E. e. biscutata and reaches E. s. leptocephala. On the 

 plains it meets E. radix, and in the southwest comes more or less in 

 touch ^\ith E. marciana, E. eques and perhaps E. megalops. 



E. s. parietalis meets all of these except the last. In the east it 

 overlaps scattering examples oi E. s. sirtalis and probably E. proxima. 

 In the far northwest it merges into E. s. leptocephala and E. s. pick- 

 eringi. 



E. hammondi meets wdth E. marciana in the eastern part of its 

 range in Arizona. 



The connection between moisture and variability, especially in the 

 direction of color intensity, may be profitably observed in these snakes. 



More than a million square miles of the territory occupied by the 

 widely ranging E. e. vagrans and E. s. parietalis lies east of the high 

 mountain chains of the Pacific coast and has an annual rainfall of 

 from 10 to 25 inches. Over this vast expanse the characters of these 

 two species are very constant, and variation has contributed to the 

 list of synonyms only E. dorsalis B. and G., in which melanism is 

 in its earliest stage, and the one specimen of E. henshawi Yarr. (=E. e. 

 plutonia Cope) from Walla Walla. 



The region of great moisture, with a rainfall of from 50 to over 100 

 inches, occupies not more than a hundred thousand square miles, 

 extending from latitude 40° in northern California to British Columbia. 

 The type localities of the followdng five forms, characterized by pro- 

 nounced melanism and often an excess of red, all fall within this re- 

 stricted area: E. ordinoides, E. concinna, E. pickeringi, E. s. tetratcenia 

 and E. s. trilineata. In addition to these, E. e. biscutata and E. s. 

 leptocephala, found there, also show marked tendencies to develop 

 dark colors as well as instability in scutellation. 



Five forms — E. infernalis Blain., E. i. infernalis Cope, E. i. vidua, 

 E. atrata and E. e. elegans — were described from the neighborhood 

 of San Francisco, where the actual rainfall does not exceed 25 inches, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 297 



but where much moisture is carried over the coast belt and up the 

 river valleys by the persistent fogs which sweep in from the Pacific 

 ocean. 



The region occupied by E. hammondi is exceedingly dry, with a 

 rainfall of less than 10 inches, and this species is relatively constant 

 and is not known to show any tendency to melanism.^* 



'* That humidity in some way influences the metabolic processes which lead 

 to pigmentation can hardly be doubted. Temperature need scarcely be con- 

 sidered in the present case, for the dry region, extending from Arizona to northern 

 Montana, and to considerable elevations, has a very great thermal range, while 

 the wet region is relatively equable. There is a suggested connection between 

 the large amount of uric acid produced by reptiles and the fact that the yellow 

 and orange coloring matter from the wings of certain butterflies has yielded a 

 substance closely related to uric acid, but physiological chemistry is not yet 

 competent to explain how these waste products are converted into pigments. 



The liberty to indulge in the striking colors developed in the garter snakes of 

 this region is partly due to the protection afforded by luxuriant vegetation, and 

 perhaps in some degree to the absence of the three snake-eating genera Spilotes, 

 Ophibolus and Elaps. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



A NEW SPECIES OF NYCTALEMON, 



BY HENRY SKINNER. 

 Nyctalemon curvata ^^ n. sp. Plate XIII. 



Upper side. Primaries dark smoky-brown, almost black. The costa 

 is crossed by a number of very narrow, pale slate-colored lines which 

 break up the ground color into spots. A distinct white band or fascia 

 crosses the wdng from the costa to the interior margin ; this band com- 

 mences on the costa 30 mm. from the base of the "v^^ng, measured 

 along the costa; it ends on the interior margin 34 mm. from the base 

 of the wing. The band is 3 mm. wide at the costa and gradually 

 grows narrower. Its white color ends before it reaches the exterior 

 margin. The band is distinctly di\dded into seven white spots bj^ the 

 dark nervures and it is markedly curved, the concave side being in- 

 ward. There are no other markings except that the apices are slightty 

 lighter in color. Secondaries. The wings are the same color as 

 the primaries and are crossed by a band or fascia some shades hghter 

 than the ground color of the T\dng; from this toward the base are no 

 markings. Beyond the band toward the outer margin the wings are 

 lighter in color and are marked with a long black shade and a number 

 of somewhat linear black markings. The exterior margin is broken 

 into two small and one long point and there is also a long broad tail 

 to the wing. Commencing in the larger point is a black band about 

 2 mm. wide and forming the edge of the wing and extending to the in- 

 terior margin. It crosses the larger tail about 10 mm. from the tip, 

 leaving the latter white from where it crosses to the end. 



Under side. Primaries. The ground color of the wings is much 

 lighter ; the white band is the same as above, except that it extends 

 unbrokenly white to the exterior margin. There is a black shade beyond 

 the band on the apex side and numerous black, somewhat Hnear 

 markings ; the tip of the vnng is whitish. There is also a black shade on 

 the inner side of the band and the linear markings are also found toward 

 the base of the wing. The secondaries are marked in the same 

 general way and the band is distinctly white but narrower than on 

 the primaries. It terminates in an irregular black band-hke spot 

 which reaches the interior margin. Expanse (from body to apex of 

 wing on one side) 62 mm. The very dark color, the comparativelj' 

 wide and very distinct, curved white band serve to distinguish 

 this species from the others in the genus. Described from two speci- 

 mens presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 by Prof. Levi W. Mengel. They are from Tonga, off Santo, New 

 Hebrides, Occanica. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



STUDIES IN AMERICAN FORFICULID.ffi:. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The material treated in the folloT\ing pages is contained in the 

 collection of the United States National Museum. The privilege of 

 examining this series was secured through the kindness of Mr. William 

 H. Ashmead, Assistant Curator of Insects in that institution. 



Family FORFICULIDiE. 



The general arrangement of the species under tliis family is accord- 

 ing to the system used by De Bormans and Krauss.^ The scheme of 

 classification recently proposed by ^'erhoeff^ has not been considered, 

 as the writer has made no investigations into the characters there 

 brought into prominence. 



Genus PYRAGRA Serville. 

 1831. Pyragra Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 34. 

 Type: P. fuscata Serville. 

 Pyragra fuscata Serville. 



1831. Pyragra fuscata ServiUe, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII; p. 34. [Cayenne.] 



One female; San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



The use of Dohrn's later name saussurei for this species appears un- 

 warranted, as Serville's specific name is based on a description which is 

 fairly complete, and perfectly applicable to this form. 



This species has been recorded from locaHties between south central 

 Mexico (Cordova and Atoyac) and French Guiana. 



Genus ECHINOPSALIS De Bormans. 

 1893. Echinopsalis De Bormans, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 2. 

 Type: E. guttata De Bormans. 



^ Das Tierreich, 11 Lieferung: Forficulidte und Hemimeridse, Berlin, 1900. 

 ^ Zoologischer Anzeiger, XXV, pp. 181-208; and Sitzungs-Bericht der GeseUschaft 

 naturforschender Freunde, Berlin, 1902, pp. 7-18. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Echinopsalis brevibractea n- sp. 



Type: c?(immature);Motzorongo, Vera Cruz, Mexico. January, 1892. 

 (H. Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This form apparent!}' belongs to the genus Echinopsalis, though not 

 wholly agreeing with the generic diagnosis. Difference from the 

 generic characters is noticed in the longer third antennal joint, the 

 subtruncate posterior margin of the pronotiun, the shorter anal seg- 

 ment and in the longer, more attenuate forceps. No close relationship 

 exists with the only previously known species, E. guttata De Bor- 

 mans from Chontales, Nicaragua. 



Body of moderate length, considerably depressed; surface subscab- 

 rous, covered with short, stiff, mostly erect hairs. Head rather flat, 

 slightly narrower than posterior width of the pronotum, the posterior 

 margin subemarginate centralh'; basal joint of the antennae inverted 

 conoid, shorter than the uniform cylindrical third joint, fourth and 

 succeeding joints (beyond eleventh missing) short and thick, bead-like, 

 broader than long. Pronotum subquadrate; anterior margin broadly 

 rounded, the angles not at all apparent; posterior margin subtruncate; 

 median sulcus well marked and extending the entire length of the 

 pronotum; lateral margins considerabty raised. Tegmina and wings 

 only partially developed, but in such condition the former almost equal 

 the pronotum in length. Anal segment moderately deep, over twice 

 as wide as long, very heavily liirsute. Subgenital plate broad, the 

 apex gently rounded. Forceps trigonal in section; rather elongate, 

 parallel and unseparated ; the inner margins finely toothed, this being 

 stronger and more apparent basally; apical portion moderately 

 incurved, crossed. Femora rather robust, uncurved; tibiae moder- 

 ately slender, not equalling the femora in length. Tarsi moderately 

 compressed, the first and third joints about equal in length. 



General color wood-brown, the limbs being mottled with touches of 

 dirty-yellomsh. 



Measurements. 



Total length (approximateljO? 9.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.5 " 



Width of pronotum, 2.5 " 



Length of anal segment, L5 " 



Length of forceps,j 3.5 " 



Four specimens, all from the type localit}^, have been examined. 

 In one of these eighteen joints are present in the antennae, twenty-two 

 being credited to E. guttata: this possibly being true of hrevihractea in 

 the unbroken antennae. 




.1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



Genus LABIDTIRA Leach. 



"1815. Labidura Leach, Edinburgh Encyc, IX, p. 118." 



Labidura bidens (Olivier). 



1791. Forficula bidens Olivier, Encyc. Mcth., Hist. Nat., VI, Pt. II, p. 466. 

 [Jamaica.] 



Twelve specimens ; six males, two females, four specimens damaged 



and sex uncertain. 



Bermuda. [U. S. N. M.] (damaged). 



Cabanas, Cuba. June 2. (Palmer and Riley.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Guanajay, Cuba. April 30. (Palmer and Riley.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This name has recently^ been revived for the form occurring in the 



West Indies, Mexico and Colombia. De Bormans and Krauss place 



it as a synonym of paUipes Fabricius, but as Kirby says, the latter 



name "is usually applied to the dark form of L. riparia; the types are 



lost, and the insect cannot be identified till more specimens are received 



from its locality, the Cape Verde Islands." 



The specimens from Bermuda are badly damaged, and are placed 



under this name with some uncertainty. 



Genus PSALIS Serville. 



1831. Psalis Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 3-4. Included P. americana 

 (Pahsot) and P. morbida Serville. 



Psalis americana (Palisot). 



1817. Forficula americana Palisot, Ins. Rec. en Afr. et Amer., p. 165, Orth., 

 t. 14, fig. 1. [San Domingo.] 



Ten specimens; nine males, one female; San Carlos, Costa Rica. 

 (Schild and Burgdorf.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This large and striking species has been recorded from localities 

 extending from Chontales. Nicaragua, to western Colombia and Vene- 

 zuela, and also from Cuba and Haiti. 



In the mature specimens (6) in this series a slight variation is noticed 

 in the internal margins of the forceps. In four specimens these are 

 sUghtly extended basally and distinctly crenulate. In two these 

 parts are straight and with the crenulations hardly visible. The im- 

 mature specimens (all males) are very interesting and might easily 

 be mistaken for members of the genus Anisolabis. Two stages, rather 

 different in general appearance, are represented in the series and are 

 worthy of separate description. 



One conclusion reached from a study of these specimens is, that the 

 immature forms possess lateral folds on the abdominal segments which 

 practically disappear by the time the adult stage is reached. 



^ Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 7th ser., XI, p. 66, January, 1903. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March) 



Size medium (25 mm.); body fusiform; surface rather polished, the 

 abdomen and forceps finely punctate, the whole sparsely beset with 

 stiff bristles, and the abdominal segments fringed with fine hairs. 

 Head considerably broader than the pronotum. Pronotum slightly 

 longer than broad; the anterior margin subtruncate, the posterior 

 rotundate; the median region bearing a shallow sulcation, deepest an- 

 teriorly, ^leso- and metanotum with the tegmina and -udngs incom- 

 pletely developed. Abdomen rather broad, the four anterior segments 

 with the lateral folds but shghtly developed. Anal segments large, 

 subquadrate, the posterior constriction being sMght; median sulcus 

 slightly developed posteriorly. Forceps of medium length, robust, 

 triangular in section, the right more curved and less hooked than the 

 left, and crossing the latter; internal margins minutely undulate, ex- 

 hibiting no signs of true teeth. Femora short and robust, the greatest 

 thickness being toward the base. Tibiae shghtly shorter than the 

 femora in the median pair of limbs, equal in the others. 



General color blackish-brown; clypeus, labrum, mandibles, tibiae 

 and tarsal joints dirty yellow (gamboge) ; femora of the general color 

 with an apical ring of dirty yellow. Antennae dull-brown with the 

 first, second, thirteenth and fourteenth joints yellow. 



Measurements. 



Largest Average of three 



Specimen. specimens. 



Total length 25.0 mm. 22.7 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.2 " 2.8 " 



Width of pronotum, 3.0 '' 2.6 " 



Length of forceps, 4.5 " 3.7 " 



Length of anal segment, 3.1 " 2.7 " 



Anterior width of anal segment, . . . 5.1 " 4.2 " 



The other stage, which represents a lower and more undeveloped 

 type than that described above, is represented in the series by a single 

 specimen. 



Size rather small (13.5 mm.); body subfusiform, the greatest width 

 being abdominal ; surface moderately polished and wnth stiff bristles 

 generally distributed, the apical dorsal segments of the abdomen being 

 margined with fine hairs, which are also present on all the ventrals. 

 Head rather elongate, broader than the pronotum. Pronotum about 

 as broad as long, the anterior margin subtruncate, the posterior ro- 

 tundate; median sulcus distinctly marked. Mesonotum posteriorly 

 truncate; metanotum centrally emarginate. Abdomen broad, each 

 dorsal segment (except the apical three) with the posterior margin 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



bearing a series of folds or plaits, which are generally disposed in rows 

 of four on each side, these being most numerous anteriorly and vanishing 

 posteriorly. Ventral surface of the abdomen with the segments 

 apically with small nodes, somewhat like the folds of the dorsal surface, 

 but these being very irregularly distributed. Such folds and nodes 

 are, in many cases, set with stiff bristles. Anal segment not very long, 

 rather broad, the surface almost flat; median sulcus very broad and 

 shallow. Forceps of medium length, rather robust, triangular in 

 section, the left exceeding the right in length; internal margins not 

 toothed, almost straight. Femora short and robust; tibiae rather 

 compressed, heavy, shorter than the femora in the posterior and 

 median pairs, equal in the anterior pair. 



General color blackish-brown; labrum, portions of clypeus and man- 

 dibles, tibiae and tarsal joints dirty yellow (gamboge); femora of the 

 general color becoming sufTused with yellowish apically; antennae 

 wood-bro-^Ti, the apical portion of basal joint washed with dull- 

 yellowish. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 13.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 2.0 " 



Width of pronotum, 2.0 '' 



Length of forceps, 3.0 " 



Length of anal segment, 1.5 " 



Anterior width of anal segment, 2.7 " 



Psalis pulchra n. sp. 



Type: c^ ; San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [U. S. 

 N. M.] 



This species is apparently closest allied to P. americana and gaga- 

 thina, both of which very considerably surpass it in size, and from 

 which it differs in the more elongate pronotum, the comparatively 

 heavier forceps and different coloration. Relationship appears to 

 exist with P. rosenhergi Burr from Ecuador, but pulchra may readily 

 be separated by color as well as the non-pilose body. 



Body of medium size (for the genus) ; elongate fusiform ; surface 

 moderately polished. Head broader than the pronotum; antennae 

 15 to 16- jointed, third joint shorter than the basal, fourth and fifth 

 rather small and rounded, sixth to eighth elongate, increasing in size, 

 ninth to extremity equal to the eighth in size and shape — the apical 

 portion of each segment being enlarged and of considerable greater 

 size than the base. Pronotum longer than broad and slightly con- 

 stricted posteriorly; anterior margin subtruncate, the posterior roundly 

 produced centrally, lateral margins considerably deflected upward; 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



median sulcus distinctly marked except at the extreme posterior mar- 

 gin, which is strongly depressed and flattened, a condition also found 

 in the lateral margins. Tegmina of considerable length, reaching to 

 the base of the posterior femora; the anterior shoulders broadly 

 rounded; extremities subtruncate. Exposed portions of the wings 

 about half as long as the tegmina, the posterior and external margins 

 broadly rounded. Abdomen with the lateral margins almost parallel, 

 the basal segments bearing on their margins minute nodes, each of 

 which gives rise to one or more bristles. Anal segment deep, subrec- 

 tangulate in outline; median line hardly visible; the apical section 

 bearing, between the bases of the branches of the forceps, a transverse 

 depression. Subgenital plate triangular in outline; apex broadly 

 emarginate, and provided with long, soft hairs. Forceps short and 

 heavy, not quite equal to half the exposed abdomen in length, tri- 

 angular in section basally ; apical portion strongly incurved ; the right 

 arm longer than, and overlapping, the left, internal right edge finely 

 crenulate, a minute tooth being developed just before the base. Femora 

 moderately heavy, compressed; tibise about equal to the femora in 

 length; third tarsal joint shorter than first, the first and second joints 

 heavily haired below, second joint very small. 



General color deep mahogany-brown, becoming dirty yellow on the 

 limbs and lower surface of the head and thorax. Pronotum margined 

 laterally with very dull-yellowish. Head reddish-brown. Antennae 

 with the two basal joints reddish-brown; the tenth, eleventh and 

 part of the twelfth pale-yellowish; remainder of the general tint. 

 Tegmina bearing shoulder spots of stiaw-yellow. Exposed wings 

 with the basal half straw-yellow. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 19.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.5 " 



Width of pronotum, 2.0 " 



Length of tegmina, 4.5 " 



Anterior width of anal segment, 3.5 " 



Length of anal segment, 2.2 " 



Length of forceps, . . 3.0 '' 



Genus ANISOLABIS Fieber. 



1853. Anisolabis Fieber, Lotos, III, p. 257. Included .4 . ynaritima and mcesta. 



Anisolabis annulipes (H. Lucas). 



1847. Forficesila annulipes H. Lucas, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, 2e ser., V, 

 Bull., p. Ixxxiv. [Jardin des Plantes, Paris ; supposed to have been trans- 

 ported from North America.] 



One male; Minatitlan, Vera Cruz, Mexico. February 1, 1892. (H. 

 Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 




1903,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Anisolabis antoni (Dohrn), 



1864. Forcinella Antoni Dohrn, Entotn. Zeitung, Stettin, XXV, p. 289. 

 [Venezuela.] 



Two females : 



Mexico. (Duges.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Minatitlan, Vera Cruz, Mexico. February 1, 1892. (H. Osborn.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens measure 15 and 12.5 millimeters in total length. 



This species has been recorded from San Luis Potosi, Mexico; Cape- 

 tillo, Guatemala; Chontales, Nicaragua and Venezuela. 



Genus LABIA Leach. 

 "1815. Labia Leach, Edinburgh Encyc, IX, p. 118." 

 Labia guttata Scudder. 



1876. Labia guttata Scudder. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII. p. 265. 

 [Texas.] 



One female; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico. January 9-16, 1892. (H. 

 Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen does not wholly agree with Scudder's description, but 

 still seems referable to this species. 

 Labia flaviscuta n- sp. 



Type: 9 ; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico. January 9-16, 1892. (H. 

 Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Apparent^ allied to L. arcuata Scudder, but differing in the elongate 

 pygidium, the shorter exposed portion of the wings, and the predomi- 

 nance of yellow instead of black on the pronotum. From L. championi 

 De Bormans, the only other form to which it appears at all allied, it can 

 be immediately separated by the thirteen-jointed antennse, the shorter 

 exposed portion of the wings, and the narrower pygidium. 



Body of very small size (5.5 mm.) ; greatest width at the apical por- 

 tion of the abdomen; surface of the head and pronotum moderately 

 polished, abdomen and tegmina dull. Antennae thirteen-jointed, the 

 fourth and fifth joints much shorter and more bead-like than the apical 

 segments. Pronotum slightly longer than broad ; anterior margin very 

 broadly rounded; posterior margin gently rounded; laterals parallel; 

 median suIcils reduced to a slight groove on the posterior half. Teg- 

 mina short, not more than one and a half times as long as the pronotum, 

 but slightly extended laterally, the shoulder angles well rounded; 

 apex subtruncate. Exposed portion of the wing very small, apparent 

 only as the extreme tip, and placed next the median suture. Abdomen 

 with well-developed side folds present on two of the median segments. 

 Anal segment and subgenital plate small, transverse, the apical margins 

 20 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



truncate. Pygiclium slightly longer than l)asal breadth, diminishing 

 in width, apex truncate. Forceps simple, unarmed, about equal to 

 half the length of the abdomen; basal halves of the arms subparallel, 

 apical halves bent at an angle and meeting, together forming an acute 

 angle. 



General color brownish-black above, reddish-brown below. Pro- 

 notum with the anterior two-thirds reddish-orange, posterior third 

 brownish-black. Antennas wood-brown, %vith the two apical joints 

 pale-yellowish. Limbs brownish-orange. 



Measurements. 



Total length 5.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, LO " 



Width of pronotum, LO '' 



Length of tegmina, L2 " 



Length of forceps, LO " 



Labia rotundata Scudder. 



1876. Labia rotundata Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, p. 26.3. 

 [Mexico.] 



One female; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico. January 9-16, 1892. (H. 

 Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen exhibits one structural difference from the original 

 description, in that the posterior angles of the pronotum are rather 

 narrowly rounded, instead of ''very broadly rounded." 



This species has been recorded from Mexico, Guatemala City, Acey- 

 tuno and Duenas, Guatemala. 



Genus SPARATTA Serville. 

 1839. Sparatta Serville, Orthopteres, p. .51. 

 Type: S. pelvimetra Serville. 

 Sparatta flavipennula n- ^p. 



Types: d" and 9 ; Motzorongo, Vera Cruz, Mexico. January, 1892. 

 (H. bsborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently allied to S. pelvimetra Serville, but differing in the broader 

 and shorter pygidium, the shorter anal segment, the unarmed and sub- 

 lamellate inner edge of the forceps, and different general coloration. 

 Relationship also appears to exist with S. pygidiata and semirufa 

 Kirby, but from the former it can be separated by the deeper anal 

 segment, the longer pygidium and strongly toothed forceps ; and from 

 semirufa by the same characters and the longer points to the forceps. 



(^ (not quite mature). Size small; body strongly depressed, broad- 

 est in the abdominal region, sparsely clothed with rather long bristles. 

 Head equal to the pronotum in width ; antennae with the first and third 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



joint subequal, fourth joint subglobose, sixth and succeeding segments 

 (present to eighth) cyUndrical, the fifth joint representing a transition 

 between the two types. Pronotum sUghtly longer than broad; ante- 

 rior section produced centrally, the antero-lateral angles being obtusely 

 rounded; posterior margin subtruncate; greatest width of the pro- 

 notum across the anterior angles; median sulcus very slight. Anal 

 segment transverse, the depth not exceeding one-third the width; 

 posterior margin truncate; median section with a longitudinal sulca- 

 tion. Pygidium triangular, subconoid, the apex truncate. Forceps 

 about equal to the abdomen in length, parallel; apical regions incurved, 

 meeting, but not lapping; inner margins with a very slight lamellate 

 edge on the basal two-thirds, this edge being crenulate and not dentate. 

 Subgenital plate transverse, slightly emarginate centrally. Femora 

 robust, very heavily developed. Tibia shorter than the femora, 

 bowed. 



General color of the upper surface blackish-brown, slightly polished; 

 head, antennae, forceps and limbs pale reddish-brown, deepest in the 

 color on the limbs. Under surface reddish-brown ; the subgenital plate 

 being of the same pale tint as the forceps. 



9 . Size medium; body strongly depressed. Head about equal to 

 the pronotum in width; antennse imperfect. Pronotum longer than 

 broad; anterior portion produced centrally, the antero-lateral angles 

 obtusely rounded ; posterior margin and postero-lateral angles broadly 

 rounded; greatest width of pronotum between postero-lateral angles; 

 median sulcus slight, obsolete posteriorly. Tegmina half as long again 

 as the pronotum ; lateral margins parallel, the shoulders rounded ; apical 

 portion, taken as a unit, rounded. Exposed portions of wings about 

 half as long as the tegmina, rounded. Anal segment transverse, 

 half as long again at anterior margin as deep, contracted, apical portion 

 considerably narrower than basal. Pygidium half as long again as 

 basal width, tapering, apex truncate. Forceps considerably less than 

 the abdomen in length, parallel, apical portion moderately hooked; in- 

 ternal margins being a slight lamellate edge, this edge being present on 

 all but the apical fourth, though subobsolete basally ; basal internal sec- 

 tion bearing a very distinct tooth. Subgenital plate deep, about half 

 as broad again as long; apical margin very broadly rounded. 



General color of the upper surface blackish-brown, slightly polished; 

 antennae, limbs, anal segment and forceps reddish-brown, deepest in 

 color on the anal segment and forceps ; exposed portions of the wings 

 pale-yellowish, lined along the median edges with brown. Under 

 surface reddish-brown. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Measurements. 



Total length, 7.5 mm. 12.0 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 1.0 " 1.5 " 



Width of pronotmii, 1.0 " 1.5 " 



Length of anal segment, 4 " 1.1 " 



Length of forceps, 1.5 " 2.5 " 



An additional immatm'e specimen from the type locality was also 

 examined. 



Geuus ANCISTROGASTER Stal. 

 1855. Ancistrogaster Stal, Ofv. Kongl.-Vet. Akad. Forh., XII, p. 349. 

 Type: A. luctuosus Stal. 

 Ancistrogaster tolteca (Scudder). 



1876. Forfiada tolteca Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, p. 261 

 [Mexico.] 



Three males; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico. January 9-16, 1892. 

 (H. Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Previous records: Orizaba and Atoj-ac, Mexico, and Coban, Guate- 

 mala. 

 Ancistrogaster gulosa Scudder. 



1876. Ancistrogaster gulosa Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, 

 p. 259. [Puebla, Mexico.] 



Fifteen specimens; eight males, seven females; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, 

 Mexico. January 9-16, 1892. (H. Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Genus OPISTHOCOSMIA Dohrn. 

 1865. Ojnsthocosmia Dohrn, Entom. Zeitung, Stettin, XXVI, p. 76. 



Type: By selection, 0. centurio Dohrn. 

 Opisthocosmia (Sarcinatrix) anomalia n. subg. et sp. 



Types: d^ and 9 ; Turrialba and San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild 

 and Burgdorf.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This form appears to differ from all the other members of the genus 

 OpistJiocosmia, in the forceps of the male being parallel throughout 

 their entire length. This, as well as the pecuhar structure of the 

 subgenital plate, has caused me to create a new subgenus for the 

 reception of the species. 



(5^ . Size medium ; form rather slender and graceful ; surface pohshed 

 and furnished with long hairs. Head rather broader than the prono- 

 tum; interorbital region tumid and bearing two median longitudinal 

 impressions ; eyes prominent, ovate in outline ; antennae with the basal 

 joint elongate, robust, of greatest thickness in the distal portion, second 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



joint very small, less than one-fifth the length of the first, third and 

 fourth joints of equal length which is about one-third that of basal 

 joint, beyond the fourth joint the segments are subcylindrical, gradually 

 increasing in length, the total number being twelve. Pronotum 

 subequal; anterior margin truncate, lateral margins subparallel, 

 posterior broadly rounded ; line of depression crossing the median line 

 posterior to the middle; median line shallowly sulcate in the anterior 

 half, slightly carinate in the posterior half. Tegmina broad, shoulder 

 prominent, narrowly rounded; lateral margins subparallel, apical por- 

 tion very slightly arcuate. Exposed portion of wings rather elongate, 

 over half as long as the tegmina, apex narrowly rounded. Abdomen 

 tapering; basal segments with the lateral folds well developed. Anal 

 segment transverse, posterior margin truncate. Subgenital plate 

 with the postero-lateral angles each produced into a recurved spini- 

 form process, which flank the lateral base of the forceps; posterior 

 margin roundly emarginate. Forceps parallel, simple, tips overlapping ; 

 internal borders strongly crenulo-dentate ; surface supplied with long 

 hairs. Femora and tibiae of subequal length, the anterior femora 

 considerably hea\der than the median and posterior pair. Tarsi with 

 the third joint heart-shaped, flattened. 



General color wood-brown; the median portion of the pronotum, 

 the margins of the tegmina and exposed portions of the wings, the 

 abdomen, forceps and antennal markings of a darker tint than the 

 remainder of the body which is of a sienna tone. Antennoe with the 

 first, second, tenth, eleventh and twelfth dark, the eighth partially so, 

 while the ninth has the basal portion dark, the remainder being 

 cream-colored. 



? . Size medium, larger than the male; form rather robust. Abdo- 

 men expanded, the greatest width being median. Anal segment 

 transverse. Subgenital plate produced subtriangular. Forceps prac- 

 tically the same in structure as those of the male, but more elongate 

 and graceful. 



General color as in the male. Antennae wdth the basal and apical 

 portions of the first, the second, seventh and eighth joints dark. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 8.5 mm. 10.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 1.1 " 1.5 '' 



Width of pronotum, 1.0 " 1.2 '' 



Length of tegmina, 2.0 '' 2.7 " 



Length of forceps, 1.5 " 2.0 " 



One additional female from Turrialba was also examined. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Genus NEOLOBOPHORA Scudder. 

 1875. Neolobophora Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, p. 281. 

 Type: N. hogotensis Scudder. 



Neolobophora ruficeps (Burmeister). 



1838. F[orficula] ruficeps Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, p. 755. [Mex- 

 ico.] 



Two specimens; male and female; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico. 



January 9-16, 1892. (H. Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



The forceps of the female are slenderer than those figured by 



De Bormans.^ 



Genus APTERYGIDA Westwood. 



1840. Apterygida Westwood, Introd. Class. Ins. Synop. Gen., p. 44. 



Type: Forficula pedestris lion. =alhipennis Meg. 



Apterygida linearis (Esehscholtz). 



1822. Forficula linearis Esehscholtz, Entomographien, I, p. 81. [Sta. Cath- 

 arina, Brazil.] 



Twenty-three specimens; fifteen males, eight females; Orizaba, Vera 

 Cruz, Mexico. January 9-16, 1892. (H. Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



El Guama, Cuba, March 6. (Palmer and Riley.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Bonito, Province of Pernambuco, Brazil. (A. Koebele, on cotton.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



Turrialba, Piedras Negras and San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild 

 and Burgdorf.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This series of males exhibit considerable variation in the structure 

 of the forceps, in some cases these appendages being constricted 

 centrally. The representatives of this sex range in size from 15 to 20 

 mm. in total length ; in the females from 10 to 15 mm. 



Apterygida californica (Dohrn). 



1865. F[orficida] Californica Dohrn, Entom. Zeitung, Stettin, XXVI, p. 85. 

 [California.] 



Two males : 



Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico. January 9-16, 1892. (H. Osborn.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



Bonito, Province of Pernambuco, Brazil. (A. Koebele, on cotton.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



While tentatively allowing this form specific rank, I am not at all 

 satisfied that it is more than a mutation of linearis, specimens exam- 

 ined being almost intermediate, having the internal tooth reduced 

 to a minimum. 



*Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, PI. 2, fig. 8. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



The specimens above listed are rather smaller than any males in 

 the series of linearis, being 14 and 11 mm. in total length. 



The previous records for this species are from California, northern 

 Sonora and Teapa, Tabasco, Mexico. 



Genus FORFICULA Linnaeus. 



1758. Forficula Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 423. 



Type: F. auricularia Linnaeus. 



Forficula lugubris Dohru. 



1862. Forficula lugubris Dohrn, Entom. Zeitung, Stettin, XXIV, p. 230 

 [Cordova, Mexico.] 



Eleven specimens; four males, seven females; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, 

 Mexico. (H. Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens differ from the original description in their more 

 reddish coloration. 



The previous records for this species cover from Durango, Mexico, 

 to \'alladolid, Yucatan, and Vera Paz, Guatemala. 



Forficula metrica n. sp. 



Type:c^; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico. January 9-16, 1892. (H. 

 Osborn.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Closely allied to F. lugubris Dohrn, but differing in the longer forceps, 

 which also bear an elongate low ridge on their internal upper surface, 

 instead of a comparatively high rounded projection as in lugubris. 



Size medium; form rather robust; surface glabrous, sparsely sup- 

 plied with short hairs. Head about equal to the pronotum in width; 

 interspace between the eyes rather tumid; antennae with but six 

 joints present, the basal one moderately robust, the third to sixth of 

 simple form, slightly increasing in length distally. Pronotum slightly 

 broader than long; anterior border truncate, lateral borders slightly arcu- 

 ate, the posterior subtruncate, the postero-lateral angles very broadly 

 rounded ; line of depression but slightly marked and crossing about the 

 middle; median line shallowly sulcate anteriorly, narrowly carinate 

 posteriorly. Elytra of moderate width; shoulder well rounded and 

 not at all prominent; lateral margins parallel; posterior margin sub- 

 truncate. Exposed portion of wings half as long as the tegmina, 

 rounded. Abdomen with the median section considerably expanded; 

 two median segments with the lateral folds developed, the posterior 

 the hea\'ier. Anal segment transverse, the posterior margin subarcu- 

 ate. Subgenital plate broadly triangular, the apex truncate. Forceps 

 almost equal to the remainder of the body in length ; the basal fourth 

 parallel, depressed and bearing a lamellate ridge along the internal 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



margin; apical three-fourths arcuate, unarmed. Pygidium very short, 

 subacuminate. Median and posterior limbs ^\^th the femora and tibiae 

 of subequal length; anterior limbs with the tibiae distinctly exceeding 

 the femora. 



General color dark-brown; antennae and limbs gamboge-yellow. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 17.0 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 1.7 " 



Width of pronotum 2.0 " 



Length of tegmina, 3.0 " 



Length of anal segment 1.0 " 



Anterior ^^^dth of of anal segment, 2.0 " 



Length of forceps, 7.5 " 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



A NOTE ON THE COMMON BOTTLENOSED POKPOISE OF THE NORTH 

 ATLANTIC, TURSIOPS TRUNCATUS (Montagu). 



BY FREDERICK W. TRUE. 



The common Tursiops of the North Atlantic is generally known in 

 scientific parlance as Tursiops tursio (Fabricius), taking its specific 

 name from the Delphinus tursio of Fabricius. During a recent study 

 of Fabricius' species I became convinced that whatever his D. tursio 

 might be it was not the bottlenosed porpoise, so common on the Atlan- 

 tic coast of the United States. 



The original description by Fabricius has been learnedly discussed 

 by Eschricht, HolboU, Robert Brown, and others with the view of 

 determining if possible what it really represents, but the principal con- 

 cern here is to determine what it does )iot represent. 



After describing the head of his D. tursio, Fabricius proceeds as 

 follows: "Teeth in both jaws distant, with obtuse apex, as in Del- 

 phinus albicans [^Delphinaptcrus leucas], but larger. Body very thick, 

 as in Boops [i.e., humpback whale] and equal with the young of the 

 latter."^ 



Now the teeth of the common bottlenosed porpoise are not far apart, 

 and are acute except in old individuals, and are smaller than those of 

 Delphinapterus. But most significant of all is the remark that the 

 body equals that of the young of the humpback whale. The young of 

 this whale has a length of from 14 to 18 feet at birth, which proportions 

 are never reached by the adult bottlenosed porpoise. 



Taking these facts into consideration it would seem out of the ques- 

 tion -to apply Fabricius' name to our common porpoise. The Green- 

 landic name reported by Fabricius for his species was Nesarnak. 

 Eschricht states that this word means simply "resembling the Nisa." 

 Nisa is a name for porpoise adopted by the Greenlanders from the 

 Scandinavian colonists.^ 



Capt. Holboll had previously stated that the natives appeared to 

 designate the blackfish, Glohicephala, by this name, but certainly not 

 the porpoise currently known as D. tursio.^ 



In 1868, Robert Brown, in treating of the cetaceans of Greenland, 

 remarked under the head of Glohicephala: "There seems little doubt 



• Fabricius, Fauna Grcenlandica, 1780, p. 49. 



2 Ann. Sci. Nat., 5e ser., Zool., I, 1864, p. 209. 



^ Holboll in Escliricht's Untersuch. iiber nord. Wallthiere, 1849, p. 190. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



that this is the Delphinus tursio of Fabricius, as the Eskimo name 

 Nesarnak is apphed to the present animal." Finally, to clinch the 

 matter, he states that Montagu's Delphinus truncatus {i.e., the bottle- 

 nosed porpoise) "has never been found in Davis Strait."* 



I am unable to find reference to any Greenland specimens of Tursiops 

 in the museums of Europe and there are none in the U. S. National 

 Museum. 



The correct name for the bottlenosed porpoise is probably Tursiops 

 truncatus (Montagu), from the Delphinus truncatus described by 

 Montagu in 1821.' The specific name truncatus has been employed 

 from time to time by various systematists, including J. E. Gray, but 

 Beddard and other recent compilers have generally made use of the 

 inapplicable tursio. 



There is a possibility that the Delphinus siculus of Rafinesque, 

 described in 1810, is the same as Tursiops truncatus, in which case 

 siculus would have priority, but Rafinesque's description is so insuffi- 

 cient that there will probably always be a difference of opinion as to 

 the identity of his species. Under the circumstances it seems unwise 

 to give it serious consideration. Rafinesque's description (translated) 

 is as follows: 

 " Delphinus siculus. 



"Body oblong, attenuated posteriorly, bluish above, white below; 

 rostrum short, obtuse; teeth equally obtuse. Remarks: This dolphin 

 is called 'Fera' in Sicily, and has much affinity with Delphinus feres of 

 Bonnaterre, but that is black and has the teeth unec^ual, alternately 

 longer and shorter. Both differ from D. phocena and D. delphis, which 

 have the teeth acute, and the last the rostrum also."" 



Later writers on the fauna of Sicily, so far as I have observed, do 

 not mention the "fera" among the species of porpoises, but Carus 

 states that the common porpoise, or dolphin, Delphinus delphis, is 

 known to the Sicihans as "fera comune," so that there is a probability 

 that Tursiops truncatus might be known as "fera." The Delphinus 

 feres of Bonnaterre is certainly not the same as Tursiops truncatus, 

 as the skeleton of one was 14 feet long, the skull 22^ inches long and 

 17 inches broad, the total number of teeth but 40, and the skin entirely 

 black. It was probably a species of Glohicephala. 



* Arctic Manual, 1875, pp. 91-92, from P. Z. S., 1868, with additions and cor- 

 rections. 



^ Montagu, Geo., "Description of a Species of Delphinus which appears to be 

 New," Mem. Wernerian Soc. Nat. Hist., 3, 1821, pp. 75-82, 1 PL 



^ Rafinesque-Schmaltz, C. S., Caratteri eri di alcuni nuovi gen. et sp. anim. 

 et plant, delta Sicilia, 1810, p. 5. 




1903.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA-No. VIII. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Several new forms of Clausiha have been detected by Mr. Hirase 

 since the publication of No. VII of this series.^ They are chiefly from 

 Shikoku Island, and all belong to groups already well represented in 

 the same regions. A single species herein described from Sado is the 

 first Clausilia to be made known from that island. 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Bttg. 

 {Group of C. awajiensis.) 

 Clausilia sadoensis n. s-p. Pi. XIV, figs. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 



Shell slender, attenuate above, brown. Surface somewhat glossy, 

 finely striate, paler and smoother above, hardly more coarsely striate 

 on the last whorl. Whorls 10^ to 11, convex, the last compressed 

 laterally, and having a rounded ridge or varix behind the basal and 

 outer lips. Aperture small; peristome white, reflexed, continuous, 

 the parietal margin erect and free. Superior lamella compressed, 

 marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella or interrupted. Spiral 

 lamella short, not quite reaching the middle of the ventral side. In- 

 ferior lamella deeply receding, straightened within, as long as the spiral 

 lamella. Subcolumella lamellar emerging but weak. Principal phca 

 short, latero-dorsal. Upper palatal plica short, in the middle joined 

 to the long, nearly straight lunella, which curves inward shghtly 

 toward the lower end. 



Length 15.5 to 16, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Length 14, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Clausihum long, parallel-sided, rounded apicall}^ deeply excised on 

 the columellar side of the filament (figs. 8, 9). 



Misakimura, Sado. Types No. 84,394, A. N. S. P., from No. 993 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Closely related to C. ischna, especially to the variation of that species 

 which I called var. neptis, but C. sadoensis differs in the stronger ridge 

 behind the lip (barely indicated or not perceptible in C. ischna), and 

 in having the spiral and inferior lamellge of equal length inside, while in 



^ These Proceedings for 1902, pp. 517-533. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



ischna and neptis the spiral lamella penetrates decidedly farther than 



the inferior lamella. 



Clausilia shikokuensis var. inokuchiensis nov. 



Smaller than shikokuensis, orange-brown; whorls 9^, the early ones 

 attenuate. Length 13, diam. 3.2 mm. 



Inokuchimura, Tosa; No. 84,391, A. N. S. P., from No. 506c of :\Ir. 

 Hirase's collection. 



A small reddish form, very solid and strong, but structurally like 

 the larger brown C. shikokuensis. 

 Clausilia sus n. sp. PI. XIV, fig-;. 1. 2. 3, 4, 5. 



Shell quite obesely fusiform, attenuate above, orange-brown, solid 

 and strong, somewhat glossy, finely striate. Whorls 8^, moderately 

 convex, the last compressed laterally. Aperture only slightly oblique, 

 the peristome expanded and reflexed, somewhat thickened, orange- 

 brown or whitish, a little emarginate at the position of the superior 

 lamella. Superior lamella compressed, sub vertical and marginal, 

 continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates to a point above 

 the superior lamella. Inferior lamella deeply receding, tliick below, 

 penetrating as deeply as the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella 

 wholly immersed or very weakly emerging. Principal plica visible 

 deep in the throat, entering to a lateral position. Upper palatal plica 

 very short and small, almost obsolete. Lunella strong and a little 

 curved inward below, very weak and low above, where it connects 

 with the middle of the upper palatal plica. 



Length 11.5, diam. 3.7 mm. 



Length 11, diam. 3.5 mm. 



ClausiUum (PI. XIV, figs. 2, 3) parallel-sided, thin and acute at the 

 apex, excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Muya, Awa, Shikoku Island. Types No. 84,393, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,007 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The obese shape of the shell and slightly curved lunella, very strong 

 below and weak above, are characteristic, and the acuminate, acute 

 apex of the clausilium equally so. Some specimens are less swollen, 

 length 12, diam. 3.3 mm. It is not closely related to an}' other species 

 I have seen, but groups with C. shikokuensis. 



{Group of C. validiuscula.) 

 Clausilia aratorum n. sp. PI. XIV, figs. 15, 16, 17, 18. 



Shell small, slender and thin, hght brown and slightly transparent. 

 Surface glossy, coarsely sculptured with strong, regular, straight striae. 

 Apical whorls smooth, rather large. Whorls 9, somewhat convex, the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



laat somewhat compressed, very shortly projecting in front. Aper- 

 ture slightly oblique, the peristome continuous, narrowly reflexed, but 

 little thickened. Superior lamella marginal, thin and compressed, 

 separated from the spiral lamella, which extends inward to the middle 

 of the front side. Inferior lamella deeply receding, thin and straightly 

 ascending within, penetrating deeper than the spiral lamella. Sub- 

 columellar lamella deeply immersed. Principal plica hardly a third 

 of a whorl long, latero-dorsal. Upper palatal ))lica short and low, a 

 low, short, nearly straight lunella connected with it. 



Length 9?5, tliam. 2 mm. 



Length 8.5, diam, l.S mm. 



Clausilium long and narrow, roimded distally, excavated on the 

 columcllar side of the filament. It is very similar to that of C. cenea, 

 but tapers less distally (figs. 17, 18). 



Shimohanyama, Tosa, Shikoku Island. Types No. 84,438, A. N. 

 8. P., from No. 1,013 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small, thin, rib-striate species seems by its palatal armature to 

 be related somewhat to C. micropeas, but in all other respects it re- 

 sembles the slightly larger C. cenea which was found with it. Both 

 may be more nearly related to C. tosana than to other descril^ed species. 

 The lunella in C. aratorum is A'eiy weak except close to the upper palatal 

 phca, where it becomes stronger; and in some shells only this stronger 

 portion is present, making with the plica an irregularly triangular 

 callous, without the extension tlownward shown in the figure. I can 

 see no trace of a lower palatal plica. The subcohnuellar lamella has 

 no spiral extension within, on the ventral side of the penult, whorl 

 parallel to the spiral anil inferior lamella^, in either this species or C. 

 anca. 

 Clausilia aenea n. sp. I'l. XIV, (ijis. 11, 12, 13, 14. 



Shell sleiuler, fusiform, lirown witii a bronzed luster, the surface 

 closely, strongly striate. Whorls 9^, convex, the last somewhat com- 

 pressed laterally. Aperture slightly oblique, piriform, the peristome 

 thin, free, expanded and slightly reflexed, somewhat emarginate above. 

 Superior lamella thin, compressed, vertical, almost separated from the 

 spiral lamella, which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side. 

 Inferior lamella deeply receding, thin and straightly ascending within, 

 as long as tile spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella deeply immersed. 

 Principal plica short, dorso-lateral. Upper and lower palatal plicae 

 short, parallel, connected ]\v a low ridgo upon which there are three 

 low tubercles. 



Length 12.5, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Length 11, diam. 2.3 mm. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Claiisilium (PI. XIV, figs. 11, 12) long and narrow, widest and pro- 

 jecting a little on each side near the filament, tapering distally ; excised 

 on the columellar side of the filament. 



Shimohanyama, Tosa, Shikoku. Types No. 84,392, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1.014 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Similar to C. aratorum in sculpture, aperture and lamellae, but having 

 a distinct lower palatal plica and a low lunella upon which several low 

 phcse are seen, in this respect resembling C. tosana. The latter is a 

 more finely striate shell with the last whorl projecting more in front, 

 and the clausilium of a different shape. 



(Group of C. platyauchen.) 

 Clausilia platyderula n. sp. 



Shell similar to C. platydera, but much smaller; brown; finely and 

 sharply striate. Superior lamella compressed, marginal, continuous 

 with the spiral lamella, which penetrates past the ventral side. The 

 inferior lamella penetrates equally far. The subcolumellar lamella, 

 emerges at least slightly. The lunella is like that of platydera. 



Length 17, diam. 3.8 mm. 



Length 15, diam. 3.3 mm. 



Aki, Tosa, Shikoku Island. Types No. 84,443, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 434d of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



It will be figured in a general review of the species of the platyauchen. 

 group, in preparation. 



Section TYRANNOPH.^DUSA Pils. 

 Clausilia bilabrata var. tosaensis nor. 



A small form with the shell very strong, the spire entire, and the 

 aperture comparatively small, its greatest length contained 4^ times in 

 that of the shell ; superior and spiral lamellse not united or but weakly 

 so. Whorls about 12, 



Length 20, diam, 4.3 to 4.8 mm. 



Shiujomura, Tosa, Types No. 84,378, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,012 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Section STEREOPH.EDUSA Bttg. 

 Clausilia echigoensis n. sp. 



Shell wide below, rapidly tapering upward, attenuate near the apex, 

 several early whorls hardly increasing in diameter, making the outlines 

 concave above; dark chestnut colored, yellow or paler below the 

 suture. 



Surface very glossy, sculptured with coarse, oblique ribs, narrower 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



than their intervals, becoming finer and then disappearing on the early 

 whorls; the intervals between the ribs more or less crinkled. Whorls 

 11, moderately convex, the last half of the last whorl flattened and 

 compressed, rounded beneath. Suture marked with a fine white 

 fine. Aperture nearly vertical, dark inside, the peristome white, 

 narrowly reflexed. Superior lamella small and low, narrow, not con- 

 tinuous with the spiral lamella, barely reaching the margin or not 

 reacliing it. Spiral lamella short, not quite reaching the middle of the 

 ventral side. Inferior lamella forming a strong fold in the aperture, 

 becoming subhorizontal, strongly spiral within, a little longer than the 

 spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella barely emerging or immersed. 

 Principal plica quite short, latero-dorsal. Upper palatal plica lateral, 

 short. Lower palatal plica shorter, oblique. No lunella. 



Length 28.7, diam. 7.7-8 mm. 



Clausilium wide, thickened and somewhat angular at fhe apex, 

 somewhat excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Myokozan, Echigo. Types No. 84,444, A. N. S. P., from No. 986 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Belonging to the C. japonica group, this species seems well distin- 

 guished by its robust shape and very strong sculpture. It will be 

 figured with the other species of the japonica group of Stcreophcedusce^ 

 in a revision of them now in preparation. 



Clausilia japonica var. perstriata nov. 



Similar to japonica except in sculpture, the surface being strongly, 

 deeply and closely rib-striate. 



Kumanogongen, Echigo. Types No. 84,376, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 986a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Explanation of Plate XIV, 



Figs. 1, 2, .3, 4. — Clausilia sus n. sp. Tj-pical form. 



Fig. 5. — Clausilia sus, a more attenuate variation occurring with the preceding. 



Figs. 6-10. — Clausilia sadoensis, n. sp. 



Figs. 11-14. — Clausilia cenea n. sp. 



Figs. 15-18. — Clausilia aratorum n. sp. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



LIFE COLORS OF PCECILIA LIMANTOTIRI, AND DESCRIPTION OF A NEW HEROS 



FROM MEXICO. 



BY HEXKY W. FO^MI.ER. 



The Academy has received a small collection of fishes from Tamauli- 

 pas, Mexico. They were secured January 16 by Mr. S. X. Rhoads. 

 while on his recent \'isit to Mexico, in the warm waters of the Victoria 

 river near Victoria. This is a small stream tributan,^ of the Rio Soto 

 la ^larina. at the foothills of the Sierra Madre ^Mountains in western 

 Tamaulipas. 



The material is in excellent condition, so that it is possible to give 

 the Ufe colors of the Poecilia, which were unknown. 



PCEOILIID^. 



1. PcEcilia limantouri Jordan an<i Snyder. 



1900. Poecilia limantouri Jordan and Snyder. Bull. U. S. Fish Conim., p. 129, 

 fig. 10; Rio Tamesoe, near Tampico, Tamaulipas, Mexico (Coll. J. O. Sny- 

 der, Xo. 6,165, L. Stanford, Jr. Univ. Mus.). 



Color in alcohol of adult male. Deep olivaceous above, and becoming 

 paler where it extends down along the middle of the side. Posteriorly 

 the dark upper color extends lower. Each scale on the upper surface 

 margined with darker, and the side of the body sprinkled -uith diffuse 

 dusky specks. Chin and jaws dusky. Lower surface of the head 

 cadmium-yellow, burnished -^dth brassy-orange, and then becoming 

 whitish below. Cheek and lower opercle marked -^-ith diffuse dusky 

 specks. Abdomen and lower half of the body pale orange, becoming 

 whitish below, and grayish posteriorly. Five or six longitudinal rows 

 of bright orange spots running along the side, the uppermost following 

 the lateral line, and the others parallel. Dorsal with, its basal half 

 dark, the rays deep gray, and the membranes black. Outer portion of 

 the dorsal broadly bright orange. Caudal dark for two-thirds its 

 basal portion, the median basal scales more or less silvery-gray, and 

 then a broad black transverse median band formed by the black 

 membranes, the rays grayish. Outer portion of the caudal broadly 

 deep orange. Pectoral very dilute browoi, the base obscurely orange, 

 and then a pale slaty l)l()tch. Ventrals and anal dilute orange. Iris 

 deep brown. 



Considerable variation occurs, many examples having as many as a 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



dozen distinct vertical dusky-brown bars on the side of the back. 

 Other examples show a blackish axillary blotch or several rather large 

 dusk}- blotches either at the base of the caudal, on the back, or on the 

 abdomen. Some examples are almost black above, and with intense 

 orange on the fins. Nineteen examples. 



Adult female. Ohvaceous above, and extending over the greater 

 part of the side, each scale margined with darker. About six distinct 

 longitudinal series of dusky dots along the side, parallel with the 

 lateral Hne. Lower surface of the body pale brown or brownish-white, 

 somewhat silver}- on the chest. Just above the anal man}- pale diffuse 

 dusky specks. Dorsal, caudal and pectoral dilute bro^\-n, a little 

 deeper basally. Anal with a pale orange tinge. Ventrals whitish. 

 Many have the anal rather bright orange, and dark ohvaceous blotches 

 distributed with the same variations as seen \\-ith the dark blotches 

 of the males. One female has the three series of dots running parallel 

 to and below the lateral hne. orange-ochraceous. Thirty-six examples 

 mostly gra^-id \\-ith ova. 



A large number of both young males and females show the coloration 

 of the adult female, except the distinct series of dots along the side. 

 The lower surface is almost entirely pale and uniform. Anal pale hke 

 the ventrals. The variation of dusky blotches is fotmd in most of the 

 examples, even the smallest. 



Tliis species has been taken also in the Rio Ixtla. at Puente de Ixtla,^ 

 Morelos, Babas and La Antigua.' 



CICHLID^. 

 2. Heros teporatus sp- nov. 



Head 2|: depth 2+; D. XV, 10: A. V, S: P. i. 14; V. I, 5; scales 

 29 in a lateral series to the base of the caudal, about 17 in the upper part 

 of the lateral hne; 5 scales between the front of the dorsal and the lateral 

 Une, and 12 between the latter and the origin of the spinous anal; 

 width of head 2 in its length; depth of head 1^; snout 3^; eye 3^; 

 int^rorbital space 3^; fourth doreal spine 2f ; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2^; anal 1^; fifth anal spine 2yV- 



Body elongate, compressed, the greatest depth about the origin of the 

 spinous dorsal, and the back not conspicuously elevated. L'pper 

 profile evenly convex, though a little more curved than the lower. 

 Caudal peduncle deep, compressed, and its length about two-thirds 

 its depth. 



Head rather triangular, compressed, and its depth at the posterior 



' Jordan- an-d Sn-yder, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1900. p. 130. 



■^ Meek. Field Col. Mh.<. Pub.. 6.5, Zool.. Ser. Ill, No. 6. 1902, p. 106. 



21 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March 



margin of the gill-opening about equal to its length. Both profiles 

 are slightly convex. Snout conic and rather short. Eye small, 

 well anterior, and high. Mouth small, horizontal, and the jaws about 

 equal. Maxillary small, and not reaching opposite the front rim of 

 the orbit. Lips rather fleshy, and the lower forming a free fold across 

 the mandible. Teeth uniserial, conic, and with a patch of villiform 

 ones directly behind. Nostrils well separated, high, and the anterior 

 midway between the tip of the snout and the front of the orbit. Inter- 

 orbital space convex. Preorbital a little over half the width of the 

 eye. 



Gill-opening carried forward below the anterior rim of the orbit. 



Scales rather large, finely ctenoid, and of about even size. Head 

 scaly, except the snout and interorbital space, and about five rows on 

 the cheek. Small scales along the bases of the fins, those along the 

 spinous dorsal forming a low sheath. Lateral line high at first, inter- 

 rupted below the posterior portion of the dorsal, then beginning on the 

 middle of the side and running over eleven scales in a straight hne to 

 the base of the caudal. 



Fourth to seventh spines of dorsal even and highest. Longest dor- 

 sal rays a httle longer than the longest spines. Last anal spines 

 longest, and a little shorter than the longest anal rays. Caudal trun- 

 cate, with rounded corners. Pectoral rather long, reaching opposite 

 the origin of the spinous anal. Ventral inserted a little behind the 

 origin of the pectoral and reaching almost to the origin of the spinous 

 anal. 



Color in alcohol more or less olivaceous-brown, ^vith about nine 

 broad darker vertical bands fading out below. The one at the end of 

 the pectoral with a black blotch, and another black blotch at the base 

 of the median caudal rays. Fins dull olivaceous-dusky, the ventrals 

 somewhat paler. Lower surface of the body pale. 



Length If inches. 



Type No. 24,242, A. N. S. P. Victoria, on the Victoria river, a tribu- 

 tary of the Rio Soto la Marina, Tamauhpas, Mexico. Coll. S. N. 

 Rhoads. 



One example. This species is very close to Hews pavonaceus Gar- 

 man,^ differing in the fin radii, the fewer vertical bands and only having 

 two black blotches on the sides. The first of these is placed at the 

 end of the pectoral just below the lateral line, and the other at the 

 middle of the base of the caudal. In Heros pavonaceus they are more 



^ Bull. Mus. Comp. ZooL, VIII, p. 93; from a spring near Monclova (Coll. Dr. 

 Palmer) . 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



or less ocellated and vertically expanded, while in H. teporatus they 

 are rounded black spots. 



{Teporatus, made somewhat warm; on account of the warm springs 

 flowing into the Victoria river where this species was taken.) 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April 



April 7. 

 Mr. Arthur ER"«aN Bro"v\'n, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eight persons present. 



Papers under the f ollo'uing titles were presented for pubhcation : 

 "Certain Mounds of the Central Florida West Coast," by Clarence 

 B. Moore. 



"Certain Mounds of the Apalachicola River," by Clarence B. Moore. 



April 14. 

 The President. Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., in the Chair. 

 One hundred and tliirty persons present. 



A paper entitled "A new Gurnard from Florida, with Notes on the 

 Colors of some other Florida Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



The death of J. Victor Carus, a correspondent, was announced. 



Mr. Howard W. Dubois made a communication, illustrated by 

 lantern slides, on a reconnaissance of the Rockies of British Columbia 

 while prospecting for the platinum metals. (Xo abstract.) 



April 21. 

 Mr. Arthur ER^^^^■ BRO^^^^", Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eight persons present. 



A paper entitled "Xosema geophile, sp. n., a ^lyxosporidian Parasite 

 of Geophilus," by Howard Crawley, was presented for publication. 




1903.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 325 



April 28. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "A List of Arachnida f rom Hayti, \vdth Descriptions 

 of New Species," by Nathan Banks, was presented for publication. 

 The death of Theodore D. Rand, a member, April 24, was announced. 

 John V. Shoemaker, M.D., was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



THE MUTATION OF HIBISCUS MOSCHEUTOS L. 

 BY JOHN AV. HARSHBERGER. 



The views of De Yries on the origin of species by mutation rest upon 

 the result of seventeen years of experimentation. This botanist holds 

 that new elementary species arise suddenly without transition or inter- 

 mediate forms, and that these species are constant from the moment 

 of their origin and show no resemblance in their characters to the indi- 

 Addual variations exliibited by the parent type. De Vries beheves that 

 mutabihty occurs only at certain periods, and a species might continue 

 in existence indefinitely without giving rise to new forms. This 

 succinctly states the position of the illustrious Dutch botanist upon 

 the origin of species. 



The observations here recorded are given with the hope that they 

 may add somewhat to the discussion of the problems opened up by the 

 work of De Vries. 



Hibiscus moscheutos L., the swamp rose mallow, is found abundantly 

 at Sea Side Park, N. J., where it covers acres of the salt marshes. Here, 

 undisturbed by man, the plants offer special advantages for study. It 

 was noticed that no two plants gro'wing in the open meadow were ex- 

 actly alike. Consequently, a study was instituted to determine, if pos- 

 sible, the character of the divergences. All of the plants studied grew 

 practically under the same conditions, although in certain places the soil 

 of the meadow was wetter than in others. So as to make the observa- 

 tions continuous for a number of years and upon the same plants, 

 stakes were driven into the marsh at the base of each plant collected 

 and studied. These stakes were marked by cutting Roman numerals 

 into a planed-off portion at the top. 



The plants numbered I-XII grew in a wet portion of the meadow 

 near an open slue. Those designated as XIII to XXV grew in the 

 drier portions of the meadow, excepting XXV, which grew beside a 

 hole filled throughout the season with water. Specimens of these 

 plants were submitted to Prof. De Vries, who pronounced upon them 

 as follows, extracted from a letter dated November 26, 1902: "I have 

 studied the Hibiscus moscheutos \dt\i the greatest interest, and believe, 

 with you, that you have hit at cases of mutation parallel to that of 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



CEnothera Lamarckiana." The writer at least hopes that more 

 detailed observations will confirm the encouraging words of Prof. 

 De Vries. However, to know whether the mutability is still working, 

 or whether the period has already come to a close, it is of course 

 necessary to make sowing experiments. This was done last fall at 

 Sea Side Park, where seeds obtained from capsules that had matured 

 were marked by stakes and sown in a portion of the meadow destitute 

 of the rose mallow to determine among the different forms which is 

 the original and mutating one, because it is probable that the others 

 would no more mutate or do so onty in a restricted manner. Seeds 

 of the several marked plants were also kept for future sowing. 



All of the plants studied, with the exception of plants III, IV, V, XII, 

 XVII, were more than of one year's duration. As is well known, 

 Hibiscus moscheutos L. is perennial and persists for a number of years. 

 The doubt might arise in the minds of some botanists that the smaller 

 plants are small because they are juveniles and have not reached fuU 

 maturity. The size of plants III, IV, Y, XII, XVII and the shape of 

 their leaves may be accounted for in this way, but the color of the 

 flowers, leaves and markings can hardly be explained by a reference 

 to the juvenile state, because these plants diverge as widely in appear- 

 ance as the other twenty adult plants do from each other. The adult 

 plants differ from each other, as do the plants of one year's growth, and 

 the inference is, therefore, that the difference in size, mode of branching, 

 size'of leaves, shapes and colors of leaves, character of inflorescences, 

 size and color of the flowers is not dependent upon whether the plant 

 is juvenile or adult, but is due rather to the mutations that they have 

 undergone. 



Dried plants do not show the pecuharities of structure in as striking 

 a manner as do living plants. In drying, the plants have lost form, 

 and the color of the flowers and leaves has faded out. As the botanist, 

 however, stands in the salt meadow where Hibiscus moscheutos L. 

 abounds and runs his eye over the thousands of plants that are found 

 there, he cannot fail but notice the various striking forms character- 

 ized by habit of growth, size and color of the stem, leaves and flowers, 

 that have been produced, as the wTiter believes, by the process of mu- 

 tation. One plant is tall and has pure white flowers with bronzed 

 leaves. Another is bright green with rose-pink flowers, while still 

 another plant is corymbosely branched and has deep rose-red flowers. 

 These peculiarities are mentioned as they occur in twenty-five plants 

 gathered in the summer of 1902 for comparative study. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GURNARD FROM FLORIDA. WITH NOTES ON TH£ 

 COLORS OF SOME OTHER FLORIDA FISHES. 



BY HEXRY W. FOT\'LER. 



A small collection of fishes has recently been received at the Academy 

 from Dade county, Fla., in the Bisca}Tie Bay region. It was made 

 during February of the past wdnter. The Academy is indebted to 

 Mr. James Spear, Jr., for this addition to its collections. He was 

 also fortimate in being able to forward the specimens in a nearly 

 fresh state of preservation, so that I can give most of the hfe colors. 



OARANGID^. 



1. Selene vomer (Linnaeus). 



1758. [Zeus] Vomer Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, I, p. 266; in America. 



Color in alcohol with brilliant silvery prevaihng, and everyw-here with 

 beautiful purphsh and bluish reflections. Back and upper surface of 

 the caudal peduncle purphsh-brown, deepest along the dorsal profile. 

 A large scattered tract of dusky dots, becoming darker and most dis- 

 tinct immediately above the eye. Axil of the pectoral pale yeUoT\-ish 

 with dusky dots. Spinous dorsal dusky. Soft dorsal whitish, with the 

 long anterior rays dusky, the longest ray very dark. AU the other 

 fins whitish ^iih more or less dusk}^ on their outer portions. Upper 

 and lower anterior margins of caudal lobes dusky. 



One example 10 inches in length, from New river. 



NOMEID^. 



2. Nomeus gronovii (Gmelin). 



1788. [Gobius] Gronovii Gmelin, Syst. Xat., I, p. 1,205; in oceano ameri- 

 cano zonae torridae. 



Color in alcohol dark broAvn on the back and top of the head, the 

 sides and lower surface silvery- white. The dark brown of the back 

 extends down on the sides in the form of five large saddle-like blotches 

 becoming grayish below. Lower side of the body with six or seven 

 grayish-brown blotches. Lower surface of the head with several 

 grayish blotches. Fins slightly tinged with straw-color, which may 

 be due to the preservative. Spinous dorsal black. Soft dorsal with 

 three broad transverse blackish vertical bands, leaving only narrow 

 pale spaces between. Anal with three narrow transverse blackish 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



vertical bands, which extend a little on the lower surface of the body, 

 and leave broad spaces between. Two small blackish spots on the 

 lower edge of the caudal peduncle. Caudal with a blackish blotch at 

 the base of each lobe. ]\Iedian portion of each caudal lobe blackish. 

 Pectoral with a longitudinal median blackish streak, becoming diffuse 

 on the outer portion. Membranes of the ventral black, except the 

 outer portion, which is pale straw-color, like most of the rays. 



Length 4f inches. 



One example taken from below a Portuguese man-of-war (Physalia) 

 in Biscayne Bay. 



SERRANID^. 



3. Diplectrum formosum (Linneeus'. 



1766. ^Perca] formosa Linnaeus, Svst. Xat., Ed. XII, p. 488; Carolina 

 (Coll. D. Garden). 



Color in alcohol pale brown above, the lower surface silvery-white. 

 Back and upper side with eight broad transverse deep brown bands, 

 with alternating deep brown narrow bands between. A deep brown 

 band from the tip of the snout to the base of the upper caudal lobe. 

 Above this two similar narrow dusky-brown bars. Where all these 

 bars cross dark areas are formed. The side of the head and trunk 

 are also marked wdth narrow pale slaty longitudinal lines, each one 

 with a Httle darker margin. Dorsals and caudal with dilute yellowish- 

 brown, the former marked on the spinous portion with two broad pale 

 slaty longitudinal bands which run back on the soft fin higher and 

 lower, the intervening space marked with another similar parallel 

 band. All of these bands are darker along their edges, and rmi higher 

 on the posterior soft dorsal, where a fourth runs backward from the 

 base of the sixth ray. Caudal with six more or less connected lines 

 or bands, especially above, so that the fin has a spotted appearance. 

 Anal pale yellowish-white, with many dilute slaty lines. Pectoral and 

 ventral whitish. A dusky spot on the chin. Interorbital space with 

 two narrow connecting lines, also one between the nostrils. 



Length 8 inches. 



One example from lower Biscayne Bay. 



LUTIANIDiB. 



4. Neomaenis apodus (Forster). 



1792. Perca apoda Forster, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise, III, p. 351 

 (Based on Perca viarina pinnis, etc., Catesby, Nat. Hist. Car. Flor. Bah. 

 II, 1731, p. 4, PI. 4, lower figure; no locality.)' 



Color in alcohol more or less faded dull uniform olive, pale below. 

 ^ Credited by Pennant (Arctic Zoology, II, 1792, p. 385) to the Bahama isles. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



Pale vertical streaks or lines obscure. A slaty line below the eye to 



the end of the opercle, and another below this. A brown streak across 



the base of the pectoral. 



Two young examples from Card Sound. 



"i. Ocyurus chrysurus (Bloch). 



1797. Sparus chrysourus Bloch, Ichthyologie, III, Pt. 8, p. 25; les eaux du 



Bresil. 

 Sparus Chrysurus Bloch, I. c, Plate 262. 



Color in alcohol \\dth upper surface deep olivaceous-gray, and the 

 sides and lower surface rosy. A bright greenish-yellow band from 

 the tip of the snout, at first narrow, and then widening posteriorly 

 mitil it includes the entire caudal fin. Above this, back, and on the 

 upper surface of the head, are a number of dark greenish-yellow spots. 

 Each scale on the cheek, and lower surface of the head, with a deep rosy 

 spot. Above the lateral line oblique dusky lines with a rosy tinge 

 running up to the base of the dorsal. Between the arch of the lateral 

 line, and the golden lateral band, are about four narrow, deep rosy lines 

 running parallel. Just below the yellow band are also two parallel deep 

 rosy lines leaving a paler rosy space between, then the rest of the lower 

 surface is marked with seven or eight longitudinal bright greenish-yellow 

 narrow bands alternating with similar ones of deep rosy. The lower 

 edge of the abdomen, and under surface of the head, is whitish. The 

 scales on the chest and lower part of the abdomen are more or less 

 whitish basally, producing an imbricated appearance. The top of the 

 head is marked with bright olivaceous spots. Dorsals and anal oliva- 

 ceous-yellow, the soft dorsal becoming very bright posteriorly. 

 Pectorals and ventrals yellowdsh-white. Iris red. Lips dusky. Inside 

 of the mouth and gill-opening whitish. 



One example 7 inches long, from lower Biscayne Bay. Comparison 

 with Brazilian examples is desirable. 



H^MULID^. 

 6. Haemulon sciurus (Shaw). 



1803. Sparus Sciurus Shaw, Gen. ZooL, IV, p. 439, PL 64; American seas. 



Color in alcohol olivaceous-dusky above, paler on the sides, and be- 

 coming yellow below. Everywhere more or less brassy. Side with 

 about ten longitudinal slaty-blue stripes, each one edged narrowly 

 with deep slaty. Spinous dorsal dilute grayish-green. Soft dorsal 

 dusky. Caudal dusky, the outer portion dilute greenish-yellow. 

 Anal bright yellowish-green with the base dusky. Pectoral grayish. 

 Ventral bright yellowish-green. Each ramiLS inside the mouth bright 

 brick-red. Inside of the gill-opening reddish above. Peritoneum black. 



One example 9J inches long, from lower Biscayne Bay. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



7. Haemulon plumierii (LacepMe). 



1800. Labrus Plumierii Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, pp. 432, 480, 

 Plate 2, fig. 2; Amerique. 



Color in alcohol brassy grayish-brown, darker on the upper surface. 

 Side with many light blue lines, each one bordered with deep slaty, 

 mostly longitudinal, and those running from the pectoral and ventral 

 very oblique. Fins dusky, and the margins of the membranes of the 

 spinous dorsal narrowly deep brown. Base of ventral dilute greenish. 

 Inside of the base of pectoral yellowish with bluish lines. A brown 

 bar across base of the pectoral. Inside of the mouth, and lower lip 

 posteriorly, orange-red. Outer portion of first ventral ray whitish. 



One example 7^ inches long, from lower Biscayne Bay. 



SPARID^. 



8. Calamus bajonado (Schneider). 



1801. [5pfl7'us] Bajonado Schneider, Syst. Ichth., p. 284. (Based on Bajo- 

 nado Parra, Descr. Piez. Hist. Nat., 1787, p. 13, PI. 8, fig. 1 ; Cuba.) 



Color in alcohol brassy-brown, the margin of each scale with a nar- 

 row darker submarginal border. Back a little deeper than the lower 

 surface, which is washed "^dth silvery. A dull bluish line below the 

 eye running forward toward the tip of the snout. Below this an in- 

 distinct bluish line, and also several bluish spots on the cheek. A 

 bluish line across the upper edge of the opercle. Two narrow bluish 

 lines running out from the front of the eye. A dusky band from the 

 lower rim of the orbit to the corner of the mouth, and across the mandi- 

 ble. Vertical fins, and ventral, dull slaty mottled with brownish. Pec- 

 toral pale brownish- white. Axil of pectoral pale yellowish. Perito- 

 neum silvery. Iris flesh-colored, upper anterior portion dusky. 



One example 7^ inches long, from lower Biscayne Bay. 

 9- Lagodon rhomboides (Linnreus). 



1766. [.S'pfl?-i;s] rhomboides Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, I, p. 470; in 

 America (Coll. D. Garden). 



Color in alcohol dusky-olivaceous on the back, merging into silvery- 

 white on the lower surface. About seven vertical dusky cross-bands, 

 with as many narrower and indistinct ones between. A deep brown 

 blotch on the lateral line above the base of the pectoral. Side with 

 eleven longitudinal slaty-blue bands, the intervening spaces more or 

 less gilded. Fins, with the exception of the ventrals, pale dusky, the 

 basal portions of the dorsals with many large gilded spots. Anal 

 more or less pale golden. Ventral whitish with a large golden basal 

 blotch. Iris clouded with dusky. 



One example 4f inches long, from New river, Fla. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



GERRIDJE. 



10. Eucinostomus harengulus Goode and Bean. 



1879. Eucinostomus harengulus Goode and Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., p. 132; 

 West Florida (Coll. MM. Kaiser and Martin). 



Color in alcohol very pale olivaceous-brown above, more or less sil- 

 very, and the lower surface silvery-white. The back is also clouded 

 with a deeper shade of the general body color. All of the scales with 

 a more or less bright metallic bluish or purplish luster. Snout brown- 

 ish. Upper portion of spinous dorsal blacldsh. Upper vertical fins 

 slightly brownish, other fins whitish. Iris silvery, mth dusky blotches. 



One example 3|- inches long, from New river. 



11. Xystsema cinereum (Walbaum). 



1792. Mugil cinereus Walbaum,- Pet. Art. Gen. Pise, III, p. 228. (Based 

 on Turdus cinereus peltatus Catesby, Nat. Hist. Car. Flor. Bah., II, 1731, 

 p. 11, PI. 11, lower figure; no locality.)^ 



Color in alcohol pale olivaceous-brown, the lower surface whitish. 

 Body washed "udth silvery, sho^\-ing purplish-blue reflections. Side 

 with seven vertical dull purplish bands running down from the back. 

 Vertical fins with minute dots of dusky, also on the ventrals. Spinous 

 dorsal and ventrals washed with dilute greenish-yellow. Iris grayish- 

 silvery. Peritoneum white. 



One example llf inches in length, from New river. 



LABRID^. 

 12- Iridic bivittatus (Bloch). 



1797. Labrus bivittatus Bloch, Ichthyologie, III, Pt. S, p. 107, PI. 284, fig. 1 ; 

 j'eu ignore la patrie. 



Color in alcohol greenish-olivaceous, pale or whitish below, and the 

 edge of each scale more or less tinted with dull coppery. A dull 

 pm'plish band running from the upper part of the eye, narrowly bor- 

 dered on each side, while on the head, with blue. It runs along the 

 base of the dorsal. A dusky purplish band runs from the side of the 

 snout through the eye to the base of the caudal above, and along the 

 side of the trunk it is very broad. A similar narrow band from the 

 pectoral along the lower side. A narrow pale dusky band starts above 

 the opercle and includes the lateral line till it descends posteriorly. 



^ I have recently rejected Walbaum's name Baia birostris, adopting Raia 

 manatia of Schneider. A re-examination of Walbaum convinces nie that the 

 word birostris is evidenth^ a typographical slip, and that sucli names as he used 

 in the "Additamentum" are available as binomials, for in ever}- case a specific 

 name is italicised. The name Mobulidce should supersede Mantidce. See Science, 

 XVII, April 10, 1903, p. 594. 



^ Pemiant says {Arctic Zoology, II, 1792, p. 377), under his discussion of Labrus 

 hiatuln hiniiiens, that it inhabits the seas of Carolina, "as I suppose the three 

 former do," of wliich the one immediately preceding is Catesby's fish. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



A pale purplish streak below the base of the pectoral. A purplish 

 Y-shaped bar on the opercle, with narrow pale blue margin, and with 

 a deep violet-blue spot above. Upper lip olive-green. Cheek pale. 

 Mandible with two brownish-purple cross-bars narrowly bordered with 

 pale bluish. Dorsal fins dilute orange, basally dusky, with greenish 

 spots narrowly margined with pale bluish. Anal similar, grayish, 

 and with dull rosy tints. Caudal deep orange-red, marginal portion 

 of the fin blackish, and with pale oblique bluish stripes. Axil of 

 pectoral pale green. Iris bright orange edged with green. 



One example 8| inches long, from lower Biscayne Bay. I am not 

 certain that my fish is identical with Bloch's account, as it also does not 

 agree with his figure. Lacepede's account is less satisfactory. 



TETRAODONTID^. 



13. Cheilichthys testudineus (LinDteus).* 



1758. [Tetraodon] testudineus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 332; in India.^ 

 Color in alcohol dark slaty-brown, the sides gradually becoming 

 whitish below with a dull ochraceous tinge, especially along the lower 

 side of the head. Large deep blotches of blackish-brown on the back, 

 made up of clusters of crowded spots which leave winding paler lines 

 between. On the sides these spots become separated and are very 

 distinct against the paler background. Axil of the pectoral brown. 

 Fins dull dusky with an indistinct tinge of dilute olivaceous, except 

 the anal which is white. Lower surface of the body chalky-white. 

 Iris yellowish-gray. 



One example 8f inches in length, lower Biscayne Bay. 



TRIGLID^. 



Merulinus Jordan and Evermann. 



BuU. U. S. Nat. Mus. (Fish. N. Mid. Amer.), No. 47, II, 1898, p. 2, 148. 



Type [Trigia] Carolina'^ Linnaeus, Mantissa Plant., 1771, p. 528; in Carolinae 

 mari (Coll. D. Garden). 



14. Merulinus salmonicolor sp. nov. 



Head 3; depth 4|; D. X-I, 11; A. II, 9; P. Ill, 12; V. I, 5; scales 



* Cheilichthys is given generic rank for those American forms with a broad, 

 flattened, or only slightly concave interorbital space. TyTpe Tetraodon testu- 

 dineus Linnaeus. 



^ The type of the species probably came from tropical America. The rude 

 accounts of Clusius and Willughby throw little light on the subject. I have been 

 unable to consult Dr. Gunther's reference, " Tetrodon testudineus, L. Anioen. 

 Acad., i, p. 309, tab. 14, fig. 3." The edition of Amoenitates Academicse, etc., 

 in the Academy's librarj^, has an account of Ostracion oblongus glaber, etc., bj' Balk 

 (1749, p. 591). It is based on Artedi, ^Yillughby, Clusius, Ray and Sloan, and no 

 locality is given. If, liowever, Linnaeus sliould be found untenable, Tetrodon 

 geometricus Schneider is the next name available with certainty. 



* Tliis'name is transposed from the original. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



95 in the lateral line to the base of the caudal, and about 6 more on 

 the base of the caudal; 10 scales between the origin of the soft dorsal 

 and the lateral hne in a vertical series, and about 24 between the latter 

 and the origin of the anal; pores 50 in the lateral Une to the base of 

 the caudal; width of the head 1| in its length; depth of head 1^^; 

 snout 2; eye 5f ; maxillary 2^; mandible 2^; -width of mouth at cor- 

 ners 2f ; interorbital space 5^; first dorsal spine 2f ; third 2|-; first 

 dorsal ray 2^; first anal ray 3^; eighth anal ray 2\f; upper caudal 

 lobe 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 4^; ventral 1^; space between 

 bases of innermost ventral rays 3^; ventral spine 2f. 



Body rather stout, cyhndrical, short in comparison, and thickest 

 anteriorly, so that the greatest depth falls opposite the fourth dorsal 

 spine. The upper profile is evenly convex from above the eyes to the 

 upper region of the caudal peduncle. Lower profile more or less 

 straight. Chest and breast flattened, and broad. Caudal peduncle 

 and posterior portion of the trunk compressed, so that the depth of 

 the former, measm-ed from the base of the last dorsal ray, is about 

 one and four-fifths in its length. The upper and lower surfaces are 

 also somewhat flattened. 



Head moderately large, broad and high, and its lower profile hori- 

 zontal. Snout long, broad, obUque. and the profile straight. The 

 upper jaw projects down a httle beyond the anterior profile of the snout, 

 which, when viewed from above, is seen to be concave. On each side 

 broad roimd processes with denticulated edges are developed, and pro- 

 ject anteriorly. At the posterior outer edge of each is a small spine. 

 Eye a little posterior in the head, and impinging on its upper profile. 

 A furrow runs from the lower edge of the eye down along the front of 

 the snout to the nostrils. Mouth large, the jaws moderate, and the 

 lower inferior. Maxillary falling a httle short of the front rim of the 

 orbit, and its distal expanded extremity' about two-thirds the orbit. 

 Teeth minute, and in rather broad, rasp-like bands, in the jaws. Sim- 

 ilar but smaller teeth in narrow bands on the vomer and palatines. 

 Tongue large, broad, thick, smooth, and onh' the small tip free in 

 front. Lateral articular region of the mandible with a short series 

 of small serrse. Nostrils anterior, near together, the anterior with a 

 little flap, and the posterior a httle nearer the tip of the upper jaw than 

 the eye. Interorbital space rather narrow, a trifle less than the inter- 

 nasal space, flattened in the middle, and each side a little elevated. 

 Top of the head very slightly convex. 



Bones of the head all with fine radiating stria^. Four preocular 

 spines, the innermost the larger. Two postocular spines. Two tym- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



panic spines, the posterior ratlier large. A small coronal spine. 

 Nuchal spine long. Preopercular, opercular and humeral spines large 

 and strong, and of more or less even size. Anterior and lateral labial 

 bones each with a small spine, that of the latter minute. 



Gill-opening extending forward nearly opposite the posterior nostril. 

 Gill-rakers in l-(-8 vi, compressed, short, their inner edges with 

 minute asperities, and the longest a little shorter than the longest 

 filaments, which are half the eye diameter. Pseudobranchise large. 

 Isthmus very broad, flattened, and the gill-membrane free. 



Peritonemii silvery. 



Anus close to the origin of the anal fin. 



Scales small, finely ciUated, and greatly reduced on the front of the 

 back. Scales on the belly small and smooth. Base of the caudal 

 scaly. Space between pectoral and ventral naked. Lateral line com- 

 posed of simple tubes, high, continuous, mostly concurrent with the 

 dorsal profile, and running down a little above the middle of the caudal 

 peduncle. 



Origin of the spinous dorsal directly after the base of the pectoral, 

 the third spine the highest, the first longer than fifth, and the others all 

 graduated dowai to the last, which is very short. The soft dorsal is 

 inserted a little nearer the front of the eye than the base of the caudal, 

 the anterior rays a little the highest, and like the spinous fin, depress- 

 able in a rather broad groove. Margin of the soft dorsal with small 

 notches. Caudal long, truncate. Anal inserted below the origin of 

 the soft dorsal, the spines flexible, shorter than the rays, and the 

 second a little the longer. Margin of the rayed anal deeply notched, 

 and the penultimate ray the longest. Pectoral long, reaching opposite 

 the base of the last anal ray, and the eighth ray the longest. Ventral 

 long, reaching the anal fin, and the third and fourth rays the longest 

 and about equal. 



Color in alcohol deep olivaceous-brown on the upper surface, indis- 

 tinctly variegated with small darker specks. On the head these are 

 more distinct and form short wavy lines. Edges of the mouth and 

 gill-opening pale yelloA\ish, the latter somewhat tinged with salmon. 

 Lower surface of the body white, the flanks tinted with salmon-pink. 

 Anal pink. Dorsals and caudal dusky, the former marked with diffuse 

 darker spots. A dark spot in front of the third dorsal spine near its 

 margin. Pectoral blackish, variegated with rather large black spots, 

 and its inner ray whitish basally. Ventrals whitish, with many dusky 

 dots. Iris grayish-brown. Inside of the gill-opening brassy-dusky 

 and blackish. 



Length 10 inches. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Type No. 24,343, A. N. S. P. New river, Dade county, Fla. Coll. 

 Mr. James Spear. 



One example. This species is related to Merulinus carolinus, M. 

 scitulus, M. roseus and M. alatus. It is closer to the latter in squama- 

 tion, but differs in more gill-rakers and shorter pectoral. The pre- 

 opercular spine is also shorter. From the other species it is chiefly 

 distinguished by its bright salmon-pink anal fin. 



{Salmo, the salmon, color, color; referring to the anal fin.) 



15. Prionotus evolans (Linnseus). 



1766. \Trigla\ evolans Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, p. 498; in Carolina. 



Color in alcohol dull olivaceous-dusky above, the lower surface 

 whitish. Back with three dark cross-bands, and indistinct darker 

 motthngs. Head also mottled mth darker, sometimes forming diffuse 

 lines. A blackish bar across the interorbital space. Dorsals and 

 caudal grayish-brown diffused with darker. Pectoral slaty-black with 

 rather large round blackish spots and the edge of the inner ray whitish. 

 Other fins white, the ventrals soiled a little on their median outer sur- 

 face. Inside of the gill-opening dull yellow, reddish on the shoulder- 

 girdle. Eye deep gray-brown. 



One example 9| inches long, from New river. 



EOHENEIDID^. 



16. Echeneis alba-cauda Mitchill. 



1817. Echeneis alba-cauda Mitchill, Anier. Month. Mag. Crit. Rev., II, 

 p. 244; in the bay of New York, June 22, 1815. 



Color in alcohol dull brown. A broad lateral blackish-brown band 

 running from the mouth to the base of the caudal, and bordered nar- 

 rowly below with dull slaty-white. Lower rays of the dorsal and anal 

 dusky-brown, and this color extending forward on these fins for the 

 same height, but becoming a little pale. The remaining outer portions 

 of the anterior rays and edges, narrowly, of the others, whitish. Caudal 

 blackish, with the upper and lower corners narrowly whitish. Ven- 

 tral and pectoral blackish, with grayish posterior margins. Iris 

 blackish-brown. 



Length 5| inches. 



One example taken off of a large shark, evidently Scolidon terrce- 

 novcel, judging by a photograph, captured in Carson's creek at Bis- 

 cayne Bay. It has 22 laminae in the disk, and the median caudal rays 

 project. I prefer the separation of this species from the Indian, until 

 examples are compared. 




1903.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



337 



NOSEMA GEOPHILI, sp. n., A MYXOSPOKIDIAN PARASITE OF GEOPHILTJS. 



BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



On ^lay 21, 1900, a specimen of Gcophilus was taken in the Harvard 

 Botanical Garden, at Cambridge, Mass. The intestine of this centi- 

 pede was teazed and crushed upon a shde, fixed in corrosive sublimate 

 and stained with thionin. The preparation showed innumerable 

 individuals of the vegetative stage of a coccidian, probably a species 

 of Eimcria, and some 30-40 specimens of the 

 parasite here figured and described. 



Of these, the smallest, shown in figs. 1 and 

 2, were for the most part nearly oval cells, with 

 occasionally a blunt prolongation at one end. 

 They ranged in length from 30 microns upward. There was no distinc- 

 tion to be made out between ectoplasm and endoplasm, the cell sub- 

 stance being essentially uniform. It stained rather deeply • "with 

 thionin, was dense in structure 

 and beset with numerous vacuoles. 

 No definite membrane could be 

 made out. 



These smaller bodies were 

 mostly uninucleate, although in 

 some the nucleus had already 

 divided. The nuclei themselves 

 were ellipsoidal bodies, with a 

 faintly staining ground substance 

 and a large and conspicuous karyo- 

 some. The ground substance was 

 doubtless a liquid in the living 

 animals. The karyosomes stained 

 intensely in thionin and were in almost every case vacuolated. 



The larger specimens, shown in figs. 3 and 4, attained a length of 

 150-200 microns. Their protoplasm was much less dense than that 

 of the smaller forms, and showed a spongy structure. There was no 

 differentiation into ectoplasm and endoplasm. The nuclei were gen- 

 erally arranged in pairs, indicative of recent division, but the prepara- 

 22 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



tion showed none in the actual process. The nuclei of both large and 

 small organisms were essentially alike. 



The irregular form and multi-nucleate condition of this sporozoan 

 places it in the Myxosporidia. Its occurrence as a free-Uving form in 

 either^the body-cavity or intestine of an arthropod seems to warrant 

 placing it, at least provisionally, in the geni.is Nosema. The specific 

 name geophili is appropriate in \'iew of the host. 



The observation is interesting in view of the fact that this is the first 

 recorded case of a myxosporidian being found in a myriapod. It is 

 also worthy of note that while Geophilus is thus shown to be parasitized 

 by representatives of three orders of Sporozoa, infection is only occa- 

 sional. Leger, describing Rhopalonia geophili, a gregarine, says that 

 it is very rare and I have never yet encountered it. I have seen the 

 imidentified coccidian mentioned above in one or two other hosts, but 

 the myxosporidian in only this one case. This comparative immunity 

 is doubtless due to the solitary habit of the centipede. 




1903.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 339 



May 5. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Tliirty-nine persons present. 



A revision of the By-Laws was adopted providing that hereafter 

 (Chap. XII, Article 1) "the stated meetings of the Academy shall be 

 held on the first and third Tuesdays of each month from October to 

 May inclusive, at such hour as may be fixed by the Council; but no 

 change shall be made in the hour except after one month's notice." 



Also that (Chap. VII, Art. 4) "the Committee [on Publication] shall 

 examine all papers intended for publication and shall print those ap- 

 proved by it as far as practicable in the order in which they were pre- 

 sented. It shall also prepare and print in the Proceedings abstracts 

 from the minutes of the meetings of the Academy and summaries of 

 verbal communications made to the Academy or any of its Sections." 



The follo-^ing were ordered by the Publication Committee to be 

 printed : 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



A LIST OF ARACHNID A FROM HAYTI, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 

 BY NATHAN BANKS. 



During the spring of 1899 Mr. R. J. Crew collected some spiders in 

 Hayti, mostly from the vicinity of Port-au-Prince. Comparatively 

 few spiders have been recorded from this island, and many of these are 

 from other parts and are large spiders. According to my instructions 

 Mr. Crew collected the smaller species, and thus secured a number of 

 new forms, as well as others unknown from the region. 



In all 63 spiders and 3 Phalangids were taken. The Epeiridse with 

 17 species and the Attidse with. 15 species are more fully represented 

 than the other families. Most of the spiders are known only from the 

 West Indies, but about 17 species occur also in the southern United 

 States. The following is the list : 



Araneida. 



Scytodes longipes Lucas. 



Scytodes fusca Walck. 



Nops coccineus Simon. 



Pholcus tipuloides Koch. 



Wulfila parvula Banks. 



Chiracanthium indusum Hentz. 



Aysha tenuis Koch. 



Anyphcena gracilipes Banks. 



Hypsinotus humilus Keyserling. 



Trachelas hicolor Ke3^serling. 



Eutichunis iyisulamis Banks. 



Theridium studiosum Hentz. 



Theridula sphcerula Hentz. 



Theridula triangularis Keyserling. 



Floronia coccineus Hentz. 



Argyrodes argyrodes Walck. {nephilce Tacz.). 



Argyrodes tritubercidatus Becker. 



XJloborus geniculatus Olivier. 



Miagrammopes sp. (immature). 



Tetragnathasp. (female). 



Argyroepeira argyra Walck. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OFPHILADELPHIA. 341 



Argyroepeira bigibbosa Keyserling. 



Alcimosphenus licinus Simon. 



Epeira theisii Walckenaer. 



Epeira circulata Walck. {balaustina McCook). 



Epeira fusco-vittata Keyserling. 



Epeira undecim-tuberculata Keyserling. 



Epeira foliata Hentz. 



Eustala prompta Hentz. 



Singa crewii Banks. 



Cyclosa ivalckenaeri Keyserling. 



Wagneria tauricornis Cambridge. 



Acrosoma armatum Fabricius. 



Gasteracantha hilaris Thorell. 



Gasteracantha tetracantha Linnaeus. 



Gasteracantha cancriformis Walck. 



Gasteracantha sexserrata Walck. 



Misumena asperatus Hentz. 



Misumena sp. (immature). 



Stephanopis rugosa Taczanowski. 



Isaloides toussaintii Banks. 



Olios antiguensis Keyserling. 



Heteropoda venatoria Linnseus. 



Selenops insularis Keyserling. 



Dolomedes marginellus Koch. 



Oxyopes salticus Hentz. 



Peucetia viridans Hentz. 



Hamalatiwa grisea Keyserling. 



Wala vernalis Peckham. 



Wala peckhamce Cockerell. 



Plexippus paykulli Aud. and Sav. 



Metacyrba pictipcs Banks. 



Nilakantha cocker elli Peckham. 



Prostheclina perplexa Peckham. 



Prostheclina morgani Peckhum. 



Prostheclina signata Banks. 



Pellenes locuples Simon. 



Mogrus cephalotcs Simon. 



Cybele haytiensis Banks. 



Icius separatus Banks. 



Synageles sp. (immature). 



Lyssomanes viridis Hentz. 



Lyssomanes antillianus Peckham. 




342 proceedings of the academy of " p^iay, 



Phalangida. 

 Cynorta dhscura Banks. 

 Cynorta v-album Simon. 

 Sty gnus insulanus Banks. 



Descriptions of New Species. 



"Wulfila parvula n. sp. 



Cephalothorax pale yello'uash, black around eyes; mandibles red- 

 brown; sternmn yellowish; legs and abdomen paler, unmarked. The 

 posterior eye-row procurved, P.M.E. fully diameter apart, about as 

 far from the rather smaller P.S.E. ; A.]\I.E. quite smaU, once and one- 

 half their diameter apart, scarcely as far as the larger A.S.E., the 

 latter close to and plainly smaller than the P.S.E. , quadrangle of M.E. 

 higher than broad, and broader behind than in front. Mandibles 

 quite large; in the male very much elongate, nearly as long as femur I, 

 tapering and divergent beyond middle, porrect, bearing a row of teeth 

 below. Legs long and slender, three pairs of spines under tibiae I 

 and II, two pairs under these metatarsi. Male palpus long, on the 

 upper side of the tibia is a row of short black spines, and a group of 

 similar spines at the tip. 



Length, c? 3.2 mm. ; 9 2.8 mm. 

 Several specimens of both sexes. 

 Anyphaena gracilipes u. sp. 



Pale yellowish throughout ; dorsmn of abdomen rather more grayish, 

 with a few indistinct elongate gray streaks above; eyes on black spots. 

 Eyes subequal in size, except those of the anterior median pair wliich 

 are much smaller than the others. Posterior eye-row procurved; 

 P.M.E. fully diameter apart, nearty as far from the equal P.S.E.; 

 A.M.E. about diameter apart, very small, a httle farther from the 

 much larger A.S.E. Mandibles moderately long, but not porrect. 

 Legs extremely long and slender, the anterior tibia nearly twice as 

 long as the cephalothorax; the tibia and metatarsi I and II have each 

 two pairs of very long spines beneath. Abdomen quite slender; the 

 ventral furrow much nearer to the vulva than to the spinnerets. The 

 epigynum shows two dark almond-shaped cavities, their pointed ends 

 toward each other and curved backward. 

 Length 6 mm. 

 One specimen, female. 

 Singa crewii n. sp. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish, with a median blackish stripe, darker 

 around eyes. Mandibles yellowish-brown; sternum pale, sides brown- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



ish. Legs pale yellowish, tips of tibise dark; palpi pale on base, black- 

 ish beyond. Dorsum of abdomen pale grayish- white, "with a broad 

 gray folium, distinct in outline, but pale within, its anterior edges 

 broadly marked with black, this black in front connects to the basal 

 ends of the black side stripes, these stripes are broad black ones on 

 each upper side of abdomen, below them the sides are pale yellowish; 

 on the middle of the venter is a large black area, containing a central 

 square pale spot. 



It is of the usual structure of the genus, the legs, however, rather 

 longer than usual. 



Length 4 mm. 

 ' One female; a very pretty species. 



Isaloides toussaintii n. sp- 



Cephalothorax pale yellow, more brownish on the sides; mandibles, 

 palpi and sternum pale yellowish; hind two pairs of legs pale yellow; 

 anterior pairs more red-brown, with a pale spot beyond middle of tibia; 

 abdomen pale gray, with a broad brown stripe from base to tip, with 

 irregular sides, and covering the tubercles; venter pale, rather darker 

 in the middle. Cephalothorax fiat above, eye-region but little ele- 

 vated; clypeus low; no dorsal groove; posterior row recurved, P.M.E. 

 about one and one-half diameter apart, and fully as far from the P.S.E. ; 

 A.M.E. much lower down than A.S.E. so that the eyes are really in 

 three rows, A.M.E. not half the size of P.M.E., but fully tmce the 

 diameter apart; A.S.E. fully twice as large as P.M.E. and about two 

 diameters apart. Four pairs of spines under tibiae I and II, three pairs 

 under these metatarsi. 



Length 6 mm. 



Several specimens; differs from /. odoperlata Sim. in the shape of the 

 vulva, as well as in minor characters. 



Metacyrba pictipes n. sp. 



Cephalothorax dark red-brown, a narrow white side-margin; abdo- 

 men greenish-brown, with a pair of parallel submedian pale hues above, 

 made up of dots, rather indistinct; sternum dark red-brown; venter 

 greenish-brown, with indistinct pale lines each side ; tips of palpi white ; 

 mandibles reddish-brown; yellow hairs around eyes and on clypeus. 

 Legs brown, tarsi white, a pale spot beneath on trochanters, patellae 

 above are almost wholly pale yellowish, an indistinct pale line above 

 on femora and tibiae, scarcely visible on the anterior pair. 



Structure similar to M. tceniola Hentz. 



Length 3.8 mm. 




I 



344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay. 



One male specimen, closety related to M. tceniola, but the male palpus 

 has but one long projection on the tibia, the other is quite short; the 

 legs are very differently marked than in M. tceniola. 



Cybele haytiensis n. sp. 



Cephalothorax reddish-yellow, with a median white spot with an 

 extension each side and behind; eyes on large black patches; clypeus 

 pale; mandibles pale, with a browTi band across middle; sternum and 

 legs pale, the latter ^^^th some small brown patches at base of joints 

 and on the tibia near middle; abdomen pale, with gray-brown dots 

 and an irregular stripe each side; venter pale. Male similar, but the 

 side stripes from the median pale mark are indistinct ; the anterior pair 

 of legs is infuscate; the mandibles are brown; the venter is black; and 

 there is a black stripe on the ventral side of each coxa. The epigynum 

 shows two large circular marks cjuite close to each other, and in front 

 two divergent curved lines; the male palpus is quite simple, the tibia 

 is long and ^^dth a long, straight projection on the outer side at tip. 



Length, ? 7 mm., d^ 5.5 mm. 



A few specimens of both sexes. Evidently related to C. albopalpis 

 Peck., from Jamaica. 



Icius separatus n. sp. 



Cephalothorax yello^Ndsh-brown, clothed with white and yellowish 

 scales and scattered long black hairs ; eyes on black spots, and a trans- 

 verse black patch in the middle of the eye-region. Mandibles red- 

 brown; sternum pale; legs very pale, the anterior pair more yellow, 

 and its joints tipped '^ith blackish, other legs unmarked. Dorsum of 

 abdomen pale gray, with several large mechan brown spots forming an 

 incomplete median stripe; each side are many small brown spots; the 

 sides of the abdomen ^^•ith brown lines; the venter pale; the spinnerets 

 reddish. 



The cephalothorax is rather low and flat, and quite short; the eye- 

 region is plainlj^ broader behind than in front, and about once and a 

 third broader than long; the A.S.E. are as high as the A.M.E., the 

 latter very large and touching; the eyes of second row are nearer to 

 lateral than to dorsal eyes. Leg I, which is rather longer than leg IV, 

 is much enlarged, five stout spines on femur I, three pairs under tibise I 

 and II, two pairs under same metatarsi; metatarsus III spined only 

 at tip; anterior coxse separated by width of lip; abdomen short and 

 flat. 



Length 3.2 mm. 



One female specimen. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



Explanation op Plate XV 



Fig. 1. — Cybele haytiensis. 

 Fig. 2. — Wulfila parvida, Anilva. 

 Fig. 3. — Isaloides toussaintii, vulva. 

 Fig. 4. — Wulfila parvula, palpus. 

 Fig. 5. — Icius separatus, eyes. 

 Fig. 6. — Anyphana gracilipes, eyes. 

 Fig. 7. — Metacyrba pictipes, palpus. 

 Fig. 8. — Singa crexcii, \ailva. 

 Fig. 9. — Cybele haytiensis, vulva. 

 Fig. 10. — Anyphana gracilipes, vulva. 

 Fig. 11. — Icius separatus, vulva. 

 Fig. 12. — Cybele haytiensis, palpus. 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



NOTES ON A FEW FISHES FROM THE MOSQUITO COAST OF NICARAGUA. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



A few fishes have recently been received at the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia from the Rev. William H. Fluck. They were 

 collected at Waunta Haulover, which is on the Mosquito coast or 

 Atlantic seaboard of Nicaragua. Though none are new, they prove 

 of interest on account of the locality. 



SILURID^. 



FELICHTHYS Swainson. 



1839. Nat. Hist. Fish. Amph. Rep., II, p. 30.5. 



Type F [elichthys] filamentosus Swainson, /. c. Based on Silurus 



hagre Bloch, Ichthyologie, IV, Pt. 11, 1797, p. 19, PL 365. ''Les grand 



rivieres du Bresil et de I'Amerique septentrionale." (Coll. M. de 



Burgsdorff Conseiller.) [Not of Linnaeus.] 



1. Felichthys marinus (Mitchill). 



1815. Silurus marinus Mitchill, Trans. Lit. Pliilos. Soc. Xew York, I, p. 433. 

 "New York. Taken June 30tli, 1814." 



Head 3i ; depth 4|; D. I, 7; A. viii, 16; P. I, 13; V. i, 5; width of 

 head 1^ in its length ; depth of head, at posterior margin of the opercle, 

 If; snout 2f ; eye 5; width of mouth 2; interorbital space If; inter- 

 nasal space 3; base of the dorsal 2|; dorsal spine li; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 3f ; base of anal If; first branched anal ray If; 

 ventral If. 



Body rather long, depressed at first, then compressed after the head, 

 and the greatest depth at the origin of the dorsal fin. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed, and its least depth about half its length, measured be- 

 tween the posterior base of the adipose dorsal, and the base of the 

 caudal. 



Head broad, depressed, more or less flattened below, and rising con- 

 vexly above, especially to the dorsal fin. Upper profile of the head a 

 little convex above the eye in front. Occipital buckler solid, its width 

 in front about equal to its length. Snout broad, a httle rounded when 

 viewed from above, and projecting a little beyond the mandible. Eye 

 lateral, rather large, and its posterior margin about midway in the 

 length of the head, viewed laterally. Mouth broad, rounded, and with 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



rather thin lips. Teeth minute, and in rather narrow bands in the 

 jaws, and on the vomer and palatines. Tongue thick, broad, rounded, 

 and free in front. Nostrils close together, the anterior circular, 

 directed forward just above the lip, and the posterior elongate with a 

 small flap. Interorbital space convexly elevated, with a median 

 depression giving place to the fontanelle. The fontanelle does not 

 extend beyond the eyes, but runs back to the occipital process as a 

 narrow median groove. Maxillary barbels broad, flattened, and 

 reaching to the anus. Mental barbels short, two in number, and 

 reaching a little beyond the gill-membrane where it crosses the 

 isthmus. 



Gill-opening extending forward nearly opposite the posterior margin 

 of the eye. 



Peritoneum pale. 



Anus about the last third in the space between the origin of the 

 ventral and that of the anal. 



Skin smooth, the top of the head posteriorly, and the occipital 

 buckler rather rugose. Humeral process smooth. Lateral line with 

 many rather long straight and obliquel}^ vertical branches running out 

 above and below. The lateral line itself is continued well out on the 

 basal portion of the caudal. 



Origin of the dorsal nearer the tip of the snout than the origin of 

 tlie anal, the spine straight, with a rugose edge in front becoming 

 barbed above, and giving place above to a long compressed broad fila- 

 ment that reaches near the base of the caudal. Dorsal rays graduated 

 from the first, which is much longer than the spine, to the last; which 

 is a little over a third the length of the spine. Adipose dorsal much 

 liigher than its base, and inserted much nearer the base of the caudal 

 than the base of the last dorsal ray. Anal with a slightly concave 

 margin, the first developed ray the highest, and the origin much nearer 

 the base of the caudal than the origin of the dorsal. Pectoral with 

 a long compressed spine, rugose along the edge at first, and both edges 

 barbed distally. When depressed the spine reaches three-fourths the 

 distance to the ventral, and its extremity gives place to a long com- 

 pressed filament reaching the origin of the anal. First pectoral ray 

 longer than the spine, and the others graduated to the last which is 

 about a fourth the length of the spine. Ventral broad, rounded, the 

 spine more or less flexible, and reaching the anal fin. Caudal large 

 deeply forked, and the lobes long, rather slender and pointed. 



Color in alcohol grayish above, white below. Lower side with 

 crowded gray dots. The outer lower surface of the pectoral with 




348 ■ i'ROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^^ay, 



crowded gray dots. On the outer portion of the anal they are fewer. 

 Ventral with only a few gray dots above. Upper edge of the maxillary 

 barbels with gray dots. Lips whitish. 



Length S+ inches. 



One example. This is evidently the young of marinus, though I 

 have never seen any young examples before. It agrees with adult and 

 rather large examples from the Xew Jersey coast. 



H^MULID^. 



CONODON Cuvier. 



1830. Hist. Xat. Poiss., V, p. 116. 



T^'^pe Conodon antillanus Cuvier, I. c. "Jamaique." (Coll. M. 

 Broussonnet.) [=^plumieri.] 



2. Conodon plumieri (Bloch). 



1797. Scicena -plumieri Bloch, Ichthyologie, III, Pt. 9, p. .57, PI. 306- 

 "Antilles." 



Head 3; depth 3i; D. XII, 12; A. Ill, 7; scales 52 in the lateral 

 line to the base of the caudal; 6 scales between the origin of the dorsal 

 and the lateral line in a vertical series, and 12 between the latter and 

 the origin of the anal; fourth dorsal spine 1| in the head; second dorsal 

 ray 2f ?; pectoral \\; snout 3^ in the head, measured from the tip of 

 the upper jaw; eye 4^; maxiUar}^ 2|; interorbital space 5. 



Back elevated and compressed, the greatest depth at the base of the 

 second dorsal spine. Least depth of the caudal peduncle one and 

 two-thirds in its length. 



Upper profile of the head a little convex. Snout broad, convex, 

 with the upper jaw projecting, and the upper profile a httle convex. 

 Eye high, impinging on the upper profile of the head, and its posterior 

 margin about midway in the length of the same. Preorbital margin 

 undulate. Maxillary reaching opposite the first fifth of the eye, and 

 its distal expanded portion a httle less than half. Lips thick and 

 fleshy. Bands of minute teeth in the jaws, Avith f if large conic canines 

 in the front of each jaw forming an outer series. Tongue broad, rovmd, 

 and free in front. Nostrils large, close together at the front of the 

 eye, circular, and the posterior about half the size of the anterior. 

 Interorbital space flattened. [Margin of the preopercle with sparse 

 short serrations, ending in a spine below, and its lower edge with a series 

 of short spines directed forward. 



Gill-opening extending about opposite the posterior fourth of the 

 eye. Gill-rakers 6-1-16, pointed, more or less even, and a little shorter 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



than the filaments, which are a Httle less than half the eye. Pseudo- 

 branchise rather short. 



Peritoneum pale. 



Scales of more or less even size, and finely ciliated. Vertical fins 

 mostly scaly. Small scales crowded at the humeral region, at the 

 base of the pectoral, and out on the basal portion of the fin. A flap 

 composed of a few small scales at the axil of the pectoral. A few 

 pointed scales at the base of the ventral, but not free. Lateral line 

 nearly concurrent with the dorsal profile, composed of simple tubes, 

 and extending well out on the caudal basally. 



Origin of the dorsal inserted well behind that of the pectoral, the 

 spines graduated to the fourth which is the longest, the first a little 

 longer than eleventh, and the twelfth about ecjual to the second. 

 Origin of the soft dorsal about midway between that of the spinoiLS 

 dorsal and the base of the caudal, and the anterior rays the longest. 

 Spinous anal inserted a trifle behind the origin of the soft dorsal, the 

 second spine the longest, much longer than the first or longest ray, 

 and the base of the rayed fin a trifle over half its height. Pectoral 

 pointed, reaching about three-quarters of the distance to the anal. 

 Ventral inserted behind the pectoral, reaching about three-quarters 

 of the distance to the anus, and the spine about two-thirds the 

 length of the fin. 



Color in alcohol brown above, pale beneath. About eight \'ertical 

 brown bands or bars along the side of the body, extending till opposite 

 the base of the pectoral. 



Length G^-g- inches. 



One example. 



I do not accept Pcrca nohilis Linnaeus^ as the earhest available name 

 for tliis species, as he states D. \^, A. 3%! MM. Jordan and Feslar con- 

 tend that it is probably intended for this species, though they admit 

 that there is less doubt about the name 'plumieri} 



CIOHLID^. 

 HEROS Heckel. 

 1841. Zool. Abhand. Annel. Wien. Mus. Nat., 1S41, p. 362. 

 Type Heros severus Heckel, I. c. ''Marabitanas im Rio-negro." 

 (ColL M. Xatterer.) 

 3. Heros urophthalmus Giinther. 



1862. Heros urophthalmus Gunther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., IV, p. 291. "Lake 

 Peten." [Guatemala.] (Coll. MM. Salvin and Godman.) 



Head 2+; depth 2^; D. XVI, 11; A. VI, 9; scales 30 in a lateral 



1 Syst. Nat., Ed. X, I, 1758, p. 291. 



2 Rep. U. S. Fish. Comm., XVII 1893, p. 488. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



series to the base of the caudal ; 5 scales in an obhque series back from 

 the origin of the spinous dorsal to the lateral Une, and 11 between the 

 latter and the origin of the anal; fifth dorsal ray If in the head; sixth 

 anal spine 2^; fifth dorsal ray If; caudal 1^; pectoral 1^; ventral If; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; snout 2f in the head, measiu-ed from 

 thetipof the upper jaw; eye 4f ; maxillary Sj^; interorbital space 3^ ; 

 wddth of preorbital 5. 



One example, Ojq inches in length. It is more slender than the 

 examples examined by ]M]\I. Evermann and Goldsborough,^ and the 

 black caudal spot at the bases of the upper caudal rays is very distinct. 

 There is also a certain amount of dusky about the bases of the vertical 

 fins, and the outer anterior portion of the ventral. 



TETRAODONTID^. 



4. Cheilichthys testudimens (Linnaeus). 



Four small examples, the largest 3f inches long. They agree with 

 examples from Porto Rico. There are a nmnber of rather large dark 

 spots on the flank, but not so numerous as in the adult. 



SOLEID^. 



BAIOSTOMA Bean. 



1882. In Goode and Bean, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., V, p. 415. 



Type Baiostoma hranchialis Bean, I. c. " Appalacliicola Bay, South 

 Florida." (Coll. M. Silas Stearns. Nos. 26,605, 30,463, U. S. Nat. 

 Mus.) 



This group is given generic rank on account of the presence of small 

 pectoral fins, developed at least on the right side. In Achinis they 

 are wholly wanting. 



Grammichthys Kaup is hardly available as his type, Pleuronecies 

 lineatus Linnaeus, appears to be of the Ed. XII, Syst. iVai. 



5. Biastoma lineata (Linnaeus). 



1758. [Pleuronectes] lineatus Linnaeus, Syst. Xat., Ed. X, p. 268. "Amer- 

 ica." Based on Pleuronectes 1. Fuscus subrotund., etc. Brovnae, Civ. 

 Xat. Hist. Jam., Ill, 1756, p. 445. [Jamaica.] 



D. 53; A. 40; scales 76 in a lateral series between the gill-opening 

 and the base of the caudal. Pectoral well developed on the right side 

 with five rays. 



One example, 2f inches in length. 



3 Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1902, p. 157. 




1903. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



351 



May 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



Regeneration of the Body of a Starfish.— Miss Sarah P. ]\Ionks, in a 

 note read to the meeting, stated that it had been known for many years 

 that starfish can renew rays that have been removed. '"It has been 

 stated that in certain starfishes an arm itself can produce a new star- 

 fish — Haeckel, Sarasin, von Martens and Saris — but this has been denied 

 by other observers. "^ It is beheved by some that a portion of the disk 

 must remain if there is any regeneration, and the breakage plane is near 

 the body, or chsk, in cases of renewal of arms. 



In studying regeneration of Phataria (Linckia) fascialis she had^cut 

 arms at different distances from the disk, and a number of the single 

 rays produced new bodies. The free ray made a new body and the 

 rest of the starfish produced a new ra}", and there was very little differ- 

 ence in the rate of growth of each, and no definite place for breaking. 



In the photograph of a six-rayed Phataria, the cut ray attached to 

 the body shows a small ray sprouting, while the free ray shows four 

 new ravs. This was cut July, 1902, and the photograph taken Febru- 

 ary, 1903. 



The manner of growth is as follows: The cut edges heal and draw 

 down toward the oral side of the starfish, then small knobs appear at 

 the end which grow into rays in which the ambulacral furrow soon 

 appears, with the small mouth in the center of the rays. 



She had collected specimens at San Pedro, Cal., showing all stages 

 of growth of the single arm, from the recently broken arm to those like 

 the photograph on through all sizes of growing rays. 



The following have been accepted by the Publication Committee 

 and ordered to be printed: 

 ^Regeneration, Morgan, p. 102. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



THE FORM AND STRUCTURE OF THE MYCODOMATIA OF MYRICA CERIFERA L. 

 BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER. PH.D. 



Within the last decade or two considerable progress has been made 

 in our knowledge of the enlargements, galls, tubercles and coralline 

 outgrowths on the roots of the higher chlorophyll-bearing plants. 

 Some of them are due to insects, others are due to a perversion of the 

 physiologic activities of the plants on which they are found, while 

 others are attributable to the stimuli occasioned by bacteria, slime 

 moulds and higher fungi. Our information concerning the tubercles 

 on the roots of the Leguminosae is reasonably complete, thanks to the 

 energies of Hellriegel, Willfarth, Winogradsky and others. Magnus^ 

 has summed up our knowledge of the growths produced by subterra- 

 nean fungi in a recent paper. He describes systematically the fungi 

 known to live as subterranean parasites, but barety mentions those 

 forms of enlargement called mycodomatia. Mycodomatia were known 

 to the botanists of a century ago. Mej^en^ looked upon them as para- 

 sites having a habit in this respect similar to plants of the natural 

 orders Balanophoracese and Orobanchacese. Schacht,^ who was the 

 first to give a fairty satisfactory account of their external appearance, 

 regarded them as normal growths upon roots, but later he considered 

 them as abnormal. Jager^ considered them as due to insects. Wo- 

 ronin,^ in a paper published in the jMemoirs of the Academy of Sciences 

 of St. Petersburg, beheved that the coral-like swellings on the roots of 

 the black alder were due to a fungus closely related to one described by 

 Nageli inhabiting the roots of various species of Iris and called by liim 



1 Magnus, P., "Unsere Kenntniss unterirdisch lebender streng parasitischer 

 Pilze und die biologische Bedeutung eines solchen unterirdischen Parasitismus," 

 Abhandlungen des botanischen Vereins der Provinz Brandenburg, XLIV (1902), 

 pp. 147-156. 



- Meyen, "Ueber das Hervorwachsen parasitischer Gewiichse, etc.," Flora, 

 1829, S. 49. 



^ ScHACHT, "Die Pflanzenphvsiologie und Herr Dr. G. Walpers in Berlin," 

 Flora, 1853, pp. 1-13; also "Der Baum," 1860, S. 172-174. 



^ Jager, "Ueber eine Krankhafte Veriinderung der Bliitlien Organe der 

 Weintraube," Flora, S. 49. 



* WoRONix, "Ueber die bei der Sehwarzerle (Alnus Glutinosa) und der gewohn- 

 lichen Garten-Lupine (Lupinus mutabilis) auftretenden "Wurzelausschwellungen," 

 Memoires de I'Academie Impcriale des Sciences de St. Pctersbourg, ^'11 Serie, 

 Tome X, No. 6, 1866. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Schinzia cellulicola. Magnus denied that the similarity was sufficient 

 to class the two fungi together. Some work done by Gravis^ led 

 Woronin to make a more detailed study of young galls upon Alnus. 

 Woronin was so much impressed with the resemblance to his Plasmo- 

 diophora hrassicce, that he communicated to Gravis his belief that two 

 organisms were present, one a slime mould and the other a fungus. 



Since these preliminary observations similar galls have been found 

 on Alnus incana, Alnus serrulata, Alnus undulata, Ceanothus ameri- 

 canus, Myrica gale, Hippophce rhamnoides, and on species of Elceagnus 

 and Shepherdia, and last summer on Myrica cerifera by the writer. 

 The results of his study of the mycodomatia on the roots of the common 

 waxberry form the material for this paper. Tabulated the names of 

 the hosts on which mycodomatia occur and the names of the fungi 

 producing them is as follows : 



Alnus glutinosa Frankia alni (Moller) Atkinson. 



" incana " 



" serndata " 



" undidata '' 



Ceanothus americanus Frankia ceanothi Atkinson. 



Myrica gale Frankia brunchorstii Moller. 



" cerifera _ " " " 



Elceagnus Frankia alni (Moller) Atkinson. 



Hippophce rhamnoides " " '' " 



Shepherdia. '' 



A history of the synonymy is somewhat as follows : Woronin first 

 considered the parasite to belong to the genus Schinzia of Nageli. 

 Magnus showed the untenableness of this position. Woronin, after 

 more detailed study, referred the parasite to the slime mould genus Plas- 

 modiophora, and in this view he was supported by H. Moller,^ who 

 called it Plasmodiophora alni. Brunchorst,^ correctly interpreting 

 the nature of the parasite to be a true filamentous fungus, established 

 the genus Frankia and named it Frankia subtilis, ignoring the oldest 

 specific name alni. Moller in 1890, by a study of fresh material instead 

 of alcoholic, set aside his former position and corroborated the observa- 

 tions of Brunchorst that the organism was a filamentous fungus. He 



* Gr.wis, "Observations anatomiques sur les excroissances des racines de 

 I'aune," Bulletin de la Sociite royale de Botanique de Belgique, Tome XVIII, 

 partie I, pp. .50-00. 



'Moller, H., "Plasmodiophora alni," Berichte der deutschen botanischen 

 Geselhchaft, Bd. Ill, 1SS5, pp. 102-105. 



•* Brunchorst, "Ueber die KnoUchen an den Wurzeln von Alnus und den 

 ElEeagnaceen," Botanisches Centralblalt, XXIV, p. 222, 1885. 

 23 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May> 



also described the parasitic growths on another plant, \'iz., Myrica 

 gale, and named it as a new species, Frankia hrunchorstii.^ Atkinson" 

 gave a complete and useful summarj^ of the literature when he pub- 

 lished his paper in 1892. He described a new species of Frankia pro- 

 ducing gaUs on the roots of the New Jersey tea, Ceanothus americanus, 

 which he called Frankia ceanothi. The mycodomatia on Elceagnus, 

 Hippophce and Shepherdia are considered to be due to a parasite iden- 

 tical with Frankia alni occurring on the genus Alnus. We have, 

 therefore, three named species of this genas, viz., Frankia alni (MoUer) 

 Atkinson occurring on four distinct genera of phanerogamous plants, 

 Frankia ceanothi Atkinson on the single genus Ceanothus, 3ind Frankia 

 brunchorstii Moller on the genus Myrica. 



The discovery of mycodomatia on a new host, viz., Myrica cerifera, 

 has led the writer to make a careful study of the galls and the fungus 

 that produces them. The mycodomatia w^ere discovered on waxberry 

 bushes growing on the slopes of sand dunes at Sea Side Park, N. J., 

 where they were laid l^are by the blowing away of the sand from about 

 the plants. Originally the bushes grew out of a low dmie, and as the 

 sand drifted in about their stems adventitious roots were formed upon 

 which grew the fungous galls, or the mycodomatia. As will be shown 

 subsequently, the fungus is perennial and the grow^th of the mj-codo- 

 matia is an extremely slow one. This slow growth argues for the 

 stabihty of the dune on which the bushes grew, for if the sand had been 

 constantly shifting the roots could not have been buried sufficiently 

 long to permit of the growi;h of the fungous galls to the size that they 

 had reached when they were uncovered. We have, therefore, a means 

 of measuring the length of life of certain sand dunes. It seems to the 

 \ATiter that the discovery of these mycodomatia on the adventitious 

 roots of the waxberry gro^^^ng in the pure sand of the New Jersey dunes 

 throws Hght upon the question of the importance of these mycodomatia 

 to the host plant. 



It has been shown b}' the experimental work of a number of observers 

 that leguminous plants will grow in pure sand after the period of star- 

 vation is passed, provided such sand be microbe-seeded, i.e., provided 

 the right kind of tubercle bacterium is present in the sand. Subse- 

 quent chemical analysis of plants thus growm has shown that nitrogen 

 over and above the amomit present in the seed is found in such legu- 



^ Moller, "Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Frankia subtilis Brunchorst," Bericht 

 der deutschen botanischen Gesellschajt, "\'III, 1S90, pp. 215-224. 



1" Atkinson, George F., "The Genus Frankia in the United States," Bulletin 

 of the Torrey Botanical Club, XIX (1892), pp. 171-177. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



minous plants, and the inference is that the tubercle-producing bacteria 

 have been instrumental in the production of various nitrogenous 

 compounds derived directly from the nitrogen of the atmosphere. It 

 is customar}^ in the poor sandy soil of northern Germany, near Berlin, 

 to grow a great variety of leguminous plants, prominently the yellow 

 lupine. The yellow lupine is plowed under and enriches the sandy soil 

 by the decomposition of the nitrogenous substances present in the 

 roots, stems and leaves. The fact that such plants thrive in such poor 

 sand}^ soil is explained by the activity of the bacterial symbiont. 

 The writer has observed the beach pea, Lathyrus maritimus, growing 

 on the crest of the sea dunes of the New Jersey coast. That the soil 

 is enriched by the growth of this plant is evidenced by the more luxuri- 

 ant development and darker green color of the marram grass, Ammo- 

 phila arenaria, which grows associated with the beach pea on the dunes. 

 Thus the writer previously argued, taking for granted that Frank's 

 assumption was correct, that mycodomatia have a similar function 

 to the leguminous tubercles. But a more careful study has led him 

 to believe that too much has been taken for granted with reference to 

 the function of mycodomatia. 



The abundance of the mycelia in the mj^codomatia surprised him 

 and led him to question the validity of the position taken by some of 

 the earlier observers that the mycodomatia act in the same way as 

 the leguminous tubercles. It is probable that Frankia brunchorstii 

 is more in the nature of an endotrophic mycorhiza, to be placed inter- 

 mediate between the ectotrophic nwcorhiza found on the Indian pipe 

 Monotropa, the short roots of which resemble closely in external appear- 

 ance mycodomatia, and the typical endotrophic mycorhiza found in 

 Thisyyiia and certain other plants, where a definite relationship is 

 established between the nucleus of the host and the fungous hyphae. 

 No such nuclear control of the growth of the fungus Frankia is 

 observed in the mycodomatia of Myrica cerifera. The action of the 

 mycehum of Frankia is much more severe, and in fact its growth sug- 

 gests a true antagonistic symbiosis, for the host cells finally suffer the 

 loss of their protoplasmic contents and collapse, leaving the fungus 

 in possession of the older portions of the mycodomatia. Whether 

 the waxberry derives any benefit from the association of Frankia 

 with its roots can be determined only by careful physiologic 

 experimentation. However, if we have here a true instance of para- 

 sitism, the struggle between host and fungus is long drawn out, 

 and no material damage is done to the host as long as the fungus con- 

 fines its attack to the secondary roots of the waxberry. If this view 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



is correct, then the galls on the roots of Myrica are mycocecidia and 

 not mycodomatia, appljdng these terms as first suggested by Frank. 



The mycodomatia (PI. XVI) examined by the writer all grew upon 

 the short adventitious roots formed when the stems of the waxberry 

 bushes were covered by the blowing of the sand around them. On 

 some smaller secondary roots the galls simply dichotomize, but later, 

 by the increase in nmnber of these forking fiber-like swelhngs, they 

 become aggregated together into nests or clumps about the size of a 

 walnut (PI. XVI). The dichotomous fibers that compose the myco- 

 domatia are of a rich miiber-brown color. They grow in length by 

 small increments and repeatedly branch in a forking manner. On a 

 small stem examined, the fibers developed on the adventitious roots 

 surround the dry remains of the underground rhizomes of the marram 

 grass, Amniophila arenaria. The dead leaves and wiry stem of this 

 grass are mixed with the fiber-like galls by the repeated branching of 

 the galls among this material. The tips of the brown fibers that to- 

 gether form a fungous household, or mycodomatium, are in the dried 

 specimens blunt and rounded. Their appearance seems to indicate 

 that, when fresh, they were of a lighter color and softer in consistency 

 than the older part of the swelling. The lighter color of the tip prob- 

 ably indicates the growth of the year. A measurement of several such 

 apices shows that the growth is extremely slow, rarely exceeding a 

 milhmeter or two in a single season. Some of the branches of the 

 mycodomatia measure twelve and fourteen millimeters in length. If 

 the yearly increment is one millimeter, such branches are twelve and 

 fourteen years old. If the annual growth is two millimeters, six or 

 seven years represent the age of some of the branches. A conserva- 

 tive estimate of the age of the mycodomatia that have reached 

 the size of walnuts is ten to fifteen years. If the growth in the length of 

 the branches of the mycodomatia is greater than this, then this esti- 

 mate is too high. One waxberry stem thirty-two millimeters in diam- 

 eter with several mycodomatia on its secondary roots shows twenty- 

 two annual rings of wood, and twenty years would be the outside limit 

 of the age of mycodomatia growing on such stems. When dried the 

 branches of the mycodomatia become extremely brittle, and the speci- 

 mens kept for the botanical museum suffered severely in being carried 

 from the seashore to the botanical laboratory. 



The microscopic structure of the galls is of interest because few of 

 the eai'lier observers seem to have determined satisfactorily the exact 

 character of the parasite. Thus Woronin^* considered the parasite to 



" WoRONix, he. cit. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



be a fungLis similar to Nageli's Schinzia. A paper by Gravis led him 

 to modify his views by ascribing the galls to the combined action of a 

 myxomycete similar in appearance to his Plasmodioiphora hrassiccB 

 and a fungous mycehum. MoUer^^ claimed that the galls were due to 

 a sUme mould. Warming^^ attributed the formation of the mycodo- 

 matia to a shme mould alhed to the genus Plasmodio'phora. Brun- 

 chorst," by his excellent observations, set the matter straight by attribu- 

 ting the galls to a filamentous fungus and estabhshed the genus Frankia 

 for it. Woronin, Frank/^ Sorauer^® represented several so-called spo- 

 rangia in the cells of the several hosts studied attached to single 

 threads of the mycehum. Brunchorst attempted to prove the fallacy 

 of the observations of these workers by showing that by an optical 

 illusion the sporangia which appear attached in reality He over the 

 fungous hyphse. Atkinson" figures and describes the mycehum and 

 sporangia of a filamentous fungus which he called Frankia ceanothi, 

 because the parasite hved in the roots of the New Jersey tea, Ceanothus 

 americanus. With this contradictory evidence a more careful micro- 

 scopic examination of the mycodomatia is necessary. 



Sections were made of the branches of mycodomatia by first boihng 

 the dried specimens and then treating them with thirty-five per cent, 

 alcohol to remove part of the air. Transverse and longitudinal sec- 

 tions were made of the dichotomously branched root-hke galls. The 

 general microscopic structure of one of these mycodomatial sweUings 

 resembles that of a root (PI. XVII, fig. 1). The center of the section is 

 occupied by the cylinder of wood or xylem, which, however, lacks the 

 larger open elements of the wood of a normal root. The tracheids, 

 irregular in shape and much reduced in size, are compacted together 

 and the medullary rays are displaced out of their true radial position, 

 taking a somewhat sinuous instead of a straight course (PI. X^TI, fig. 1). 

 Both in the normal and in the fungous-infested tissues, the meduhary 

 ray cells have contents of a rich brown color. External to the wood 

 comes the cambium, theoretically of a single layer of cells, and outside 

 of this the soft bast which consists of rounded cells. In such roots, 

 where the elements have shifted normally from a radial position, the 

 cortex and soft bast are confluent, both in the normal and in the fun- 



'- MOLLER, loc. Cit. 



^^ Warming, " Wurzelknollchen bei den Elseagnen," Just's Botanischer Jahres- 

 bericht, 1876, lYa, p. 439. 



"Brunchorst, "Ueber die KnoUchen an den Wurzeln von Alnus und den 

 Elseagnaceen," Botanisches Centralblatt, XXIV, 1885, p. 222. 



^^ Frank, "Krankheiten der Pflanzen," p. 647. 

 .' '"^ SoRAUER, " Pflanzenkrankheiten." 



" Atkinson, loc. cit. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



gous material. In the older normal roots, the cortex is delimited by 

 a discontinuous layer of hard bast patches, a few elements of which are 

 occasionally met with in the galls. External to the rather abundant 

 brown cortex region of normal and fungous inhabited roots is a phello- 

 genetic layer, succeeded at the periphery by the young and old cork 

 cells. Where branches arise, a section at such places shows the 

 obhquely cut xylem pushing out surrounded by the cortex cells. The 

 young hght-colored cork cells at such places become confluent with 

 the similarly colored wood cells, so that it is difficult to distinguish 

 between the elements composing these two distinct kinds of tissue. 

 Another marked feature in both the normal and parasitized roots is the 

 plugged tracheids with a yellowish or brown gummy material,^^ 

 whether in the nature of modified tyloses the writer was unable to 

 determine. The most highly modified portions of the roots of Myrica 

 cerifera, when parasitized by Frankia brunchorstii, are the woody 

 cyhnder, the soft bast and the cortex. 



The finest fungous mycelium is found in the cortex of the younger 

 roots and growing into the medullary ray cells. It consists of fine 

 imi cellular hyphse and can be made out with the greatest difficulty by 

 a No. 3 Leitz objective. With a No. 7 Leitz objective, the finer 

 hyphae become defined as cobweb-Hke threads stretching across the 

 large, lacunar, intercellular spaces which have been formed between the 

 rounded cortex cells near the apical portion of the swelling (PI. XVII, 

 fig. 66). Sometimes the hyphae stretch straight across these inter- 

 cellular spaces, but more often they take a sinuous course and form a 

 complex where several branches cross each other (PI. XVII, fig. 3). 

 These finer hyphse are formed as branches from thicker brown hyphae 

 to be described later. 



The course of the hyphse, as revealed in a longitudinal section of the 

 apical portion of the mycodomatial branches, is in general from cell to 

 cell. The hyphse may pass from one side of the cell to the other, pass- 

 ing out again through the cell wall, or the hyphse may make a loop, a 

 half turn or branch by the formation of short branches (PI. XVII, 

 fig. 6). These short branches are found imbedded in the protoplasm 

 of the cortex cells and may be looked upon in some sense as haustoria. 

 Sometimes several hyphae run into one host ceU, and in such cases the 

 branches form a mesh. The hyphse also grow intercellularly. In 

 several transverse sections studied, three hyphae parallel to each other 

 pierce the same cell wall and run through the protoplasm of the cell 



" Harshberger, "Two Fungous Diseases of the White Cedar," Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. of Philn., 1902. p. 461. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 359 



thus entered. The course of such hyphse from cell to cell is made 

 clearer by the contraction of the protoplasm from the cell wall. This 

 condition has been produced by drying and the protoplasm has been 

 plasmolyzed. Two hyphse enter the protoplasm of a cortex cell, 

 converge near the center of the cell, and then run to the opposite cell 

 wall, where just before passing through it they diverge from each other. 

 Another hyphse enters a cell, and in the center of it forks to form a Y 

 (PI. XVII, fig. 66). Still other hyphse in transverse section grow 

 through the triangular intercellular spaces, forming perfect complexes. 



In the older sections, hyphse are seen of a larger-size and with browner 

 walls than the finer hyphse above described (PL XVII, figs. 2, 4). 

 These seem to take a general longitudinal or oblique course through 

 the cortex, because in several transsections studied these hyphse exist 

 as rings lying in the cells, having been cut across by the razor. Large 

 brown hyphse are seen in the lacunar intercellular spaces of sections 

 made at the base of mycodomatial swellings (PI, XVII, figs. 2 and 4). 

 These hyphse are the main trunks of- those that pierce the cells and 

 grow into the protoplasm, for they produce smaller branches which 

 assume the colorless aspect of the finer hyphse already described 

 (PI. XVII, fig. 66). It is, therefore, clear that the apical portions of 

 the mycodomatia have fine hyphse with a few thicker strands, while 

 sections cut from the older and basal portions of the swellings have large, 

 brown, thick-walled, unicellular hyphse which run longitudinally and 

 obliquely. The larger hyphse probably form the older and peren- 

 nating mycelium which, during the life of the metamorphosed second- 

 ary roots, seem to provide new and finer hyphse to the apical portion of 

 the branches of the mycodomatium. 



The larger unicellular hyphse, which can be followed across the large 

 irregular lacunar spaces formed by the rupture of the cortex in drying, 

 enter cortex cells where they branch by the formation of short rounded 

 sickle-shaped branches (PI. XVII, fig. 3). Several of these curved 

 branches may be formed from a single hypha. These may be looked 

 upon in the nature of haustoria. Sometimes these branches, especially 

 near the apical portion of the mycodomatia, become extremely fine, 

 and then they may grow between the starch grains imbedded in the 

 protoplasm, forming a meshed structure to be referred to later (PL XVII, 

 fig. 6a). The larger number of these brown thick-walled hyphse 

 are found in the medio- and endocortex, and they almost fill both 

 the cells of these regions and the intercellular spaces. The cortex cells 

 are no longer living in these reigons, but by the growth of the parasitic 

 hyphse they have been destroyed as living cells. However, at the 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



apex of the mycodomatial growths the cortex cells are still alive and 

 by slow growth add to the length of the several branches, forming a 

 mycodomatium. This stage of the fimgous development is sometimes 

 found on secondary roots which still show a radial structm'e ^^dth a 

 well-defined endodermis. In such roots the fungus is found especially 

 well marked in the medio- and endocortex and to a limited extent in 

 the exocortex. 



One section showed an appearance suggestive of sporangia as figured 

 in Woronin's paper of 1866, cited above. The -s^Titer refers to cer- 

 tain cortex cells which have contents not only reticulate with clear 

 rounded areas enmeshed b}^ the yellowish reticulum, but also suggestive 

 of a lattice-work of protoplasm (PI. XVII, fig. 6a). Hyphae are con- 

 nected not only ^vith the protoplasmic reticulum, but also \\dth the 

 open basket-like protoplasm, so as to suggest that the protoplasmic 

 reticulum owes its origin to the mycelium. A careful study, however, 

 of the relationship of fungus and host cells shows that the reticulum 

 owes its genesis to imbedded starch grains w^hich have been partially 

 dissolved away by the treatment of the sections in mounting, and that 

 hyphse have sent in short branches between the starch grains and hence 

 into the meshes of the i^rotoplasmic reticulum (PL XVII, fig. 6a). 

 This may have suggested to Woronin the sporangia (zooconidia) 

 w^hich he figures in a grape-like bunch in the cell, each sporangium 

 (zooconidium) connected by a hypha. Or this reticulate structure 

 may have suggested to MoUer^^ a plasmodium of a myxomycete like 

 Plastnocliophora dividing up into a number of spores. 



The writer believes that in suggesting this he has reconciled the 

 earher opposing views. Woronin is probably right in describing the 

 sporangia (zooconidia) of Frankia, because the mycelium and its man- 

 ner of growth suggests a relationship to the genus Pythium, and the 

 writer would place, therefore, tentatively, the hyphomycetous genus 

 Frankia among the Oomycetes, close to the genera Pythium and Perono- 

 spora. This view is strengthened if the lattice-like reticulum mentioned 

 above (PI. XVII, fig. 6a) is compared with a figure (fig. 28) given by 

 Tubeuf on p. 139 of his text-book. This figure illustrates the growth 

 of the fungous Phytophthora in the tissues of the leaf of the beech, 

 and the same kind of reticulum is shown. 



In the absence of oogonia and zooconidia, however, in the mycodo- 

 matia of Myrica cerijera, the suggested relationships of the fungus 

 studied by the writer to the Oomycetes cannot be insisted upon. The 



^* MoLLER, "Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Frankia subtilis Brunchorst," Berichte 

 der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, VIII, 1890, p. 222. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



uiiicelliilar hyphse, the method of growth of the haustoria and the 

 appearance of the sporangia (zooconidia) figured by Woronin are all 

 strongly suggestive of such a kinship. 



Bibliography. 



1829. Meyen. Ueber das Hervorwachsen parasitischer Gewachse. Flora, 



1829, S. 49. 

 1853. ScHACHT. Die Pflanzen-Physiologie und Herr G. Walpers in Berlin. 



Flora, 1853, S. 10. 

 1860. ScHACHT. Der Baum, S. 172-174. 

 1866. WoRONiN, M. Ueber die bei der Schwarzerle (Alnus Glutinosa) und der 



gewohnlichen Garten-Lupine (Lupinus mutabilis) auftretenden Wurzel- 



anschwellungen. Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale de St. Petersbourg, 



VII Serie, Tome X, No. 6. 1S66. 

 1876. Warming, E. Smaa biologiske ogmorfologiske Bidrag. Botanisk 



Tidsskrift, 3 dei Rakke, Bd. 1, 1876, p. 84. Reference, Wurzel-Ivnollcheu bei 



den Elseagneen, Just's Jahresbericht, 1876, p. 439. 



1879. Magnus. Sitzungsberichte des bot. Ver. d. Prov. Brandenburg, XXI, 

 June 27, 1879. 



1880. Frank, B. Die Krankheiten der Pflanzen. Breslau, 1880, p. 648. 

 1885. Brunchorst. Ueber die IvnoUchen an den Wurzein von Alnus und den 



EL^eagnaceen. Botanisches Centralblatt, XXIV (1885), p 222. 

 1885. Gravis, A. Note sur les excroissances des racines de I'aune. Compte 



rendu de la seance mensuelle du Jan. 10, 1880, de la Socicte royale de Botanique 



Belgigue. See Berichte der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, Bd. Ill, 18S5, 



p. 177. 

 . SoRATJER. Pflanzenkrankheiten. 2 Aufl., I, p. 747. 



1885. MoLLER, H. Plasmodiophora Alni. Berichte der deutschen botanischen 

 Gesellschaft, III, 1885, pp. 102-105. 



1886. Brunchorst. Ueber einige WurzelanschweUungen, besonders die- 

 jenigen von Alnus und den Elaeagnaceen. Unters. bot. Inst. Tubingen, 

 Zweiter Band, pp. 151-177. .Also Botanisches Centralblatt, XX^'II, p. 109. 



1887. Frank, B. Sind die Wurzelanscliwellungen der Erlen und Elseaganceen 

 Pilzgallen? Berichte der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, Bd. "\', Heft 2, 

 1887, p. 50. Ref. in Botanisches Centralblatt, Bd. XXV, p. 366. 



1890. Moller. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Frankia sub tilis Brunchorst. 

 Berichte der deutschen botanischen Gesellschaft, Bd. VII, 1890, pp. 215-224, 



1891. Atkinson, George F. The Tubercles on the Roots of Ceanothus. Bo- 

 tanical Gazette, X^T, p. 262. 



1892. Atkinson, George F. The Genus Frankia in the United States. Bid- 

 letin of the Torrey Botanical Club, XIX (1892), pp. 171-177. 



1895. TuBEUF, K. F. von. Pfianzenkrankheiteyi durch Kryptogame Parasiten 

 verursacht. Section on Die Mycodomatien der Erlen, Elseagnaceen und My- 

 ricaceen veranlasst durch Frankia-Arten, p. 117. 



1900. WooDHEAD, T. W. On the St.ucture of the Root Nodules of Alnus 

 glutinosa. Rep. British Association Advancement Science, 1900, p. 931. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ma}', 



EXPLAXATIOX OF PlATES XVI AND XVII. 



Plate X^'I. — Stem of the waxberry, Myrica cerifera, with secondary roots upon 

 wliich are formed the mycodomatia, or mycocecidia. Photograph 

 by Mr. W. H. Wahiisley. 



Plate XVII, fig. 1. — Transverse section of a branch of a mycodomatia made 

 below the middle showing large lacunar areas, magnified 25 diameters. 



Fig. 2. — Cortex of mycodomatium showang large thick-walled unicellular 

 hyphie. 



Fig. 3. — Meshed structure of finer hyphse from mediocortex. 



Fig. 4. — Coarser hyphse at the base of a mycodomatial branch. 



Fig. 5. — -Older normal secondary root of the waxberry showing central 

 woody cylinder, etc. 



Fig. 6. — Finer hyphae with one cell at a showing meshed structure suggestive 

 of a collection of zooconidia. At b finer hj'phae are showm. Photo- 

 graphs by Mr. W. H. Walmsley. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



ON THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE ROTATORIAN FAMILY FLOSCULARIID^. 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR/ 



The thoughts which group themselves about the theories of larval 

 homologies, and in particular that one which regards the trochophore 

 stage as the recurrence or at least parallehsm of an ancestral phyletic 

 form, comprise one of the many inducements to investigate the anat- 

 omy of the Rotatoria. For it is generally maintained by those workers 

 who uphold the trochophore theory in its logical sequences, that the 

 adult Rotatorian and the trochophore larva show close similarities. 

 One Hue of the approach, then, to test the correctness of the ideas of 

 such larval homologies, is to extend our knowledge of the structure of 

 the Rotatoria. A huge literature has grown up around this group of 

 animals, but with the exception of a very few detailed monographs 

 the writers have contented themselves with the description of the exter- 

 nal form. This is the more remarkable since the Rotatoria lend them- 

 selves better than most forms, thanks to their great transparency, to 

 the study of fine details of structure in the living animal. 



Those who have not occupied themselves especially with the anatomy 

 of this group make the common assumption that all Rotatoria show 

 essentially the same type of structure. But this is erroneous for two 

 reasons : first, because in Nature there do not occur types of structure, 

 but gradations of structure; and second, because the Rotatoria evince 

 very great differences among themselves. For the bearing of the group 

 as a whole upon the views of larval homologies it is first necessary to 

 examine the various Rotatorian groups comparatively, in order to 

 determine which of them is the most generalized or primitive; then 

 this group should be compared with the various kinds of trochophore 

 larvse. This is a problem to be attacked from more sides than the 

 purely morphological, for at once appears the striking fact that the 

 Rotatoria are for the most part fresh-water forms, while the trocho- 

 phore larvse are characteristic exclusively of marine groups. Of the 

 living Rotatoria, are the most primitive forms found in the sea or in 

 fresh water? And of them, are the pelagic forms more primitive than 



' From the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsj'lvania, Phila- 

 delphia. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



the creeping and attached forms? Here again we are met with the 

 fact that a knowledge of distribution, and its factors, constitutes a very 

 important ally in the study of phylogeny. 



The present paper is offered as a contribution to the morphologj'' of 

 the Flosculariidae alone. The only thorough account so far of the 

 anatomy of any species of this family is that of Gast on Apsilus lenti- 

 formis. The occurrence of Apsilus, Stephanoceros and four species of 

 Floscularia during the past winter and spring in a pond in the garden 

 attached to our zoological laboratory, enabled me to study all these 

 forms at the same time, and so to make the desired comparison of them. 

 But until I have had opportunitj' to examine for myself other famihes 

 of the group, it would be premature to express any opinions upon the 

 phyletic value of the Rotatoria as a whole. 



In regard to the methods of study, the examination of the hving 

 animals under shght pressure of the cover-glass has proved the most 

 important. Fixation with hot corrosive sublimate or -^dth Flemming's 

 fluid, and staining with hsematoxyhn or carmines were of value in 

 rendering nuclei more distinct, but even in hfe all the nuclei of the body 

 tissues can be seen. The preparations may be mounted in balsam 

 with no shrinkage by passing the objects from the absolute alcohol 

 through graduated mixtures of cedar oil with alcohol. Sections were 

 made of Apsilus alone. The complete literature has been cited for 

 Apsilus and Stephanoceros, but for Floscularia only such contributions 

 as concern the internal anatomy. 



APSILUS, Meczn. 



Historical. 



Leid}^ (1857) described very briefly Dictyophora. nov. gen. vorax nov. 

 sp., from the vicinity of Philadelphia. Mecznikow (1866) described 

 Apsilus nov. gen. lentiformis nov. sp., from Giessen; he noted the com- 

 plete absence of ciliary -^Teaths, form of the corona, the lateral antennae, 

 intestinal tract, musculature, nephridia, and mistook for the brain a 

 large muscle; he described the male also. Then Leidy (1882) figured 

 his species, and mentioned that it difl'ers from the species of Mecznikow 

 in the lack of lateral antennse and of a ganghon. Forbes (1882) gave 

 a crude figure of and briefly described Cupelopagis nov. gen. hvxyinedax 

 nov. spec, from Illinois, describing the ahmentary^ tract and the exter- 

 nal form. Foulke (1884) described as a new species Apsilus hipera, 

 from Philadelphia ; the corona was described as a membranous hood or 

 net, two stomachs (the proventriculus erroneously regarded as a 

 stomach), lateral antennse. musculature; she pointed out that the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



name Dictyophora is preoccupied, and proposed to recognize as three 

 distinct species Apsilus vorax (Leidy), A. hipera Foulke and A. hiidne- 

 dax (Forbes). In rejoinder to this paper Leidy, in the same year, pro- 

 posed to unite these under the name Apsilus vorax, and found at last 

 the lateral antennae. Hudson and Gosse (1886) placed vorax and bucin- 

 edax as synonyms of lentiformis, and hipera as a distinct species ; they 

 relegated this genus to the Flosculariidce. Stokes (1896) gave a good 

 description of bucineda^, from Trenton, N. J.; he described the lateral 

 antennae, oesophageal tul^e, long immobile setae arranged in tufts upon 

 elevations of the inner surface of the coronal cup, slender and numerous 

 coronal muscles, an ovary extending across the whole width of the 

 body. He also figures the corona of hipera from the same locahty, and 

 considers the four described species as all distinct. Lund (1899) held 

 that the genus should be removed from the Floscidariida;, and placed 

 in a separate family near the Asplanchnidce. Jennings (1900) figured 

 the young of a species of Apsilus. Finally Gast (1900) has given a very 

 detailed and accurate account of the anatomy and histology of a species 

 he calls vorax Leidy (holding lentiformis to be synonymous), and 

 regards hipera and bucinedax to be distinct from it. 



Thus the European species, lentiformis, has been well described by 

 Mecznikow and Gast, but of the three described American species the 

 accounts, with the exception of that of Stokes of bucinedax, are so 

 meager that the status of these is very perplexing. Foulke was right 

 in uniting all these in the one genus Apsilus. A. bucinedax (Forbes) 

 is well marked from all the others by the shape and great size of its 

 germarium. Now the species which I shall describe is from the same 

 locahty as the forms described by Leidy and Foulke, and agrees with 

 both of these in all essential particulars (these authors had overlooked 

 the germaria, nephridia and foot, all the sense-organs except the 

 lateral antennae, and the oesophageal tube). Foulke considered her 

 species to differ from Leidy's in possessing lateral antennae (but these 

 had been overlooked by Leidy), in ciliation of the corona (probably, as 

 Gast has remarked, flame cells were mistaken for such cihation), in 

 more strongly developed muscular system, and in the external form. 

 I am inchned to conclude that these differences are only apparent, due 

 to the meagerness of Leidy's descriptions. Stokes stated that hipera 

 differed from vorax in that the ventral margin of the corona is projected 

 forward; but in the form described l)y me this margin shows consid- 

 erable variations in form. Hence hipera (Foulke) had best be consid- 

 ered a .synonym of vorax (Leidy); and the three clearly recognizable 

 species may be distinguished as follows: 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^1^7, 



(a) — Germarium very large, extending across the whole width of the 

 trunk, oesophageal tube present, immobile setse -^itMn the 



coronal cup, bucinedax (Forbes). 



(6) — Germarium small, rounded, no setse ^^^thin the corona. 



(1) — CEsophageal tube present, dorsal cuticula of trunk with trans- 

 verse tliickened ridges, rorax (Leidy). 



(2) — Oesophageal tube absent, dorsal cuticula without such ridges, 



lentifonnis ^lecznikow. 



In the description which follows I shall refer for comparison mainly to 

 the description of Gast for lentiformis, since his accovmt is b}^ far the 

 most thorough. 



Anatomical. 



The external form is fairly well known. The trunk is somewhat 

 wider than high, rounded posteriori}^, while anteriorly it is continued 

 as a large corona (Rlissel, Mecznikow; cup, Leidy ; net, Foulke; Mund- 

 trichter, Gast). When fully extended the form is as shown in the 

 figures (PI. XVIII, 1-3), the corona very large and its aperture usually 

 in the horizontal plane but sometimes obUque. The posterior w^all of 

 this aperture (mouth) may be rounded or notched, or may project 

 forward as a convex lobe. On the ventral surface of the trunk is the 

 rudimentary foot (Chitinring, Mecznikow; disk or sucker, Leidy; Fuss, 

 Gast); and behind that, also ventral, the cloacal aperture. The lat- 

 eral antennae are clearly visible on the sides. The whole animal is so 

 beautiful!}^ transparent that the greater part of the following descrip- 

 tion has been based upon a study of the living animal. 



Hypodermis and cuticula. — The hypodermis is a very thin layer, 

 with its flattened nuclei far apart; at the margins of the mouth it is 

 only sHghtly thickened. The cuticula is thin, colorless, and (especially 

 on the dorsal surface) covered \\dth minute tubercles which may be 

 ovoid or stellate (as Gast found). On the antero-dorsal surface of the 

 trunk there are broad but narrow thickenings of the cuticula (PI. XVIII, 

 X, fig. 1), the number and exact arrangement of which is subject to 

 considerable variation; each of these ridges bears tubercles. The 

 cuticula and hypodermis of the body wall are continued inward as the 

 lining of the corona; there the minute tubercles are replaced by minute 

 conical projections, borne mainly upon longitudinal ridges of the cuti- 

 cula. The whole cuticula is very flexible, and when the animal is 

 strongly contracted and the corona rolled inward it is thrown into 

 many folds; radial folds are also found around the cloacal aperture. 

 No cilia are found anywhere upon the surface of the body nor within 

 the corona, nor yet any immobile setae. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Alimentary trad. — The large cavity (PL XVIII, Inf., figs. 1-3) of 

 the corona opens externally by the ventral mouth (coronal aperture). 

 It is without ciha and lined by a continuation of the hypodermis and 

 its cuticula. It is succeeded by a thick-walled short oesophagus 

 (PI. XVm, Oes., fig. 1), also without cilia and with a sphincter muscle 

 (as Gast has described.) From the oesophagus, and attached to its 

 posterior end, a narrow flexible tube (PL XVIII, Oes.T., figs. 1-3) 

 extends back into the proventriculus, which may be termed the oesopha- 

 geal tube (this was also described by Stokes for A. hucinedax). This 

 tube is lined by a thin epithelium with a few nuclei, and its posterior 

 shghtly enlarged end is free; it is laterally compressed, and probably 

 possesses a musculature of its own, since it beats in rapid undulations 

 with many changes of form; it is very elastic to allow the passage of 

 the large objects of food (mainly smaller free-swimming Rotatoria, also 

 Ostracoda, Nematoda, Infusoria and Acarina). The proventriculus 

 (Prov.) is a large, distensible sac, of nearly the width of the trunk; its 

 interior surface is lined by a cuticula without cilia, next follows a clear 

 zone of transparent protoplasm, then the peripheral cytoplasmic layer 

 containing the nuclei. The musculature of this region described by 

 Gast I was unable to find. The mastax lies at the posterior end of the 

 proventriculus; its appearance is shown in fig. 1, and the masticating 

 teeth of one side shown in fig. 5 ; I have not been interested to deter- 

 mine its finer structure, which has been done very carefully by Gast, but 

 will simply state that its large tooth is not sharply bent at the tip as in 

 lentiformis, and that of the four smaller teeth on each side one is fre- 

 quently absent. Further, the usual parts may be distinguished: the 

 unci and manubria, the fulcrimi and its rami. On this follows the 

 stomach proper (Chylusdarm, Mecznikow; oesophagus, Foulke; stom- 

 ach, Leicly; Magendarm, Gast). This (PL XVIII, Stom., figs. 1-3) is 

 the only portion of the tract that is ciliated, and it is the assimilative 

 portion of the intestine, with a single epithelium of large nucleated 

 cells containing fatty globules. The posterior intestine (P.Int.) is a 

 wide sac lined by a flat nucleated epithehum, which opens into the 

 dorsal side of the cloaca {CL, figs. 2, 3), a distensible tube fined by a 

 similar epithelium. The cloacal aperture (Cl.Ap.) is surrounded by a 

 sphincter muscle (found by Gast) and is actually ventral, but morpho- 

 logically dorsal since it is behind the foot. 



The only glands of the intestine are one pair of large stomach glands ; 

 these {Stom.GL, figs. 1-3) are pyriform with long ducts, the body of 

 each gland placed at the ventro-posterior margin of the posterior intes- 

 tine, the duct curving up around the dorsal margin of the intestine to 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



join the stomach; each gland (which has been fuhy described by Gast) 

 has one large nucleiiS; or as many as three nuclei exidently produced by 

 amitosis of the single one. The substance of these digestive glands 

 appears granular. 



Foot. — Tills has been carefully described by Gast, and I have httle 

 to add to his description. It is immovably attached to the surface on 

 which the animal rests by the secretion of large hy'podermal glands 

 which are apparent only in the free-swimming stage. Its outhne (F., 

 figs. 2, 3) is more or less circular and it is placed upon the ventral sur- 

 face of the body anterior to the cloacal aperture, its margin shghtly 

 elevated. 



Musculature. — A. vorax agrees very closely with A. lentijormis in 

 the details of the musculature, which is very strongly developed. The 

 following muscles may be distinguished (figs. 1-3) : 



I. Hypodermal muscles (muscles attached at both ends to the 

 hypodermis). 



(a) Circular muscles. 



(1) Sphincter coronse primus, Sph.C. I., a completely closed ring at 

 the edge of the corona with a dorsal loop (Gast's rm 1). 



(2) Spliincter coronse secundus, Sph.C. II, a narrower muscle just 

 behind the preceding, interrupted ventrally (Gast's rm 2). 



(3) Spliincter coronse tertius, Sph.C. Ill, a completely closed ring 

 (Gast's rm 3a). 



(4) Spliincter coronse quartus, Sph.C. IV, present only dorsally and 

 not parallel to the other sphincters (Gast's mb of his fig. 2). 



(5) Sphincter coronse quintus, Sph.C. V, a slender muscle inter- 

 rupted dorsally and ventrally (Gast described it as a branch of his 

 rm3). 



(6) Sphincter corona sextus, Sph.C. VI, a completely closed ring 

 (Gast's rm 4). 



(7) Spliincter coronse septimus, Sph.C. VII, the largest of the^coro- 

 nal sphincters, a closed ring giving on each side a branch to join the 

 next (Gast's rm 5). 



(8) Sphincter coronse octavus, Sph.C. VIII, with a shorter dorsal 

 and a larger ventral interruption (Gast's rm 6). 



(9) Sphincter trunci primus, Sph.tr. I, a small muscle, present'on 

 each side dorso -late rail}* only, subject to considerable variation. 



(10) Sphincter trunci secundus, Sph.tr. II, interrupted dorsally only 

 (Gast's rm 7). 



(11) Sphincter trunci tertius, Sph.tr. Ill, interrupted ventrally and 

 dorsally (Gast's rm 8). 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



(12) Sphincter trunci quartus, Sph.tr. IV, interrupted dorsally but 

 generally closed ventrally (Gast's rm 9). 



(13) Sphincter trunci quintus, Sph.tr., V, dividing into three 

 branches, interrupted dorsaUy and ventrally (Gast's rm 10). 



(14) Sphincter trunci sextus, Sph.tr. VI, paired, latero- ventral on 

 each side of the foot (Gast's mb 3). 



(6) Longitudino-circular muscles. 



(15) One pair, L.-C.M., passing from the posterior end of the body to 

 about the middle of the trunk, then each turns ventrad (Gast's dim 3). 



(c) Longitudinal muscles. 



(16) Retractor coronse primus, /^.c. 7, on the antero-dorsal surface of 

 the corona (Gast's dim 1). 



(17) Retractor coronse secundus, R.c. II, on the postero-dorsal sur- 

 face of the corona (Gast's dim 2). 



(18) Retractor coronae tertius, R.c. Ill, the innermost ventral pair, 

 attached at the foot, passing forward and outward to insert upon 

 Sph.C. I (Gast's vim 1, but with a different anterior relation). 



(19) Retractor coronce quartus, R.c. IV, paired, ventral (Gast's 

 vim 2). 



(20) Retractor coronae quintus, R.c. V, inserted posteriorly at the 

 sides of the foot, passing anteriorly to insert on Sph.C. I (it is much 

 longer than Gast's vim 3). 



(21) Retractor coronae sextus, R.c. VI, paired, each with two 

 branches ending posteriorly on the sides of the trunk, a single anterior 

 branch inserting on Sph.C. I, and with two small lateral branches 

 (which for the sake of clearness are not shown on the lateral view of the 

 animal). (This corresponds more or less to Gast's vim 4.) 



(22) Compressor trunci, C.T., paired, subject to considerable varia- 

 tion in form, a very thin but broad muscle always with several branches, 

 extending back to the sides of the foot and anteriorly inserting upon 

 R.c. Ill, R.c. IV, R.c. V. 



II. Visceral muscles (those which are entirely separated from the 

 hypodermis, or in which only one end is attached to the hypodermis, 

 which is the more usual condition). 



(a) Circular muscles. 



(23) Retractor mastacis, r.m., paired, a short muscle connecting the 

 side of the mastax with L.-C.M. 



(24) Sphincter oesophagi, sph.oes. (found by Gast).' 



(25) Sphincter ani, sph.an. (found by Gast). 

 (6) Dorso-ventral muscles. 



(26, 27) Depressor trunci primus et secundus, d.tr. 1 and 2, two pairs, 

 24 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF i^^^Yj 



large muscles inserted on the hypodermis a little to one side of the foot, 

 passing dorsally through the body cavity and inserted with enlarged 

 ends on the hypodermis on the sides of the proventriculus (Cast's dv 1 

 and dv 2). 



(28) Depressor trunci tertius, d.tr. 3, paired, smaller than the pre- 

 ceding and placed posterior to them (Cast's dv 3). 



(29) Depressor trunci quartus, d.tr. 4, paired, beliind the preceding 

 (Cast's dv 4). 



(c) Longitudinal muscles. 



(30) Levator coronje, I.e., paired, inserted posteriorly on the hypo- 

 dermis at the sides of the mastax, passing through the brain in the wall 

 of the corona, subdividing anteriorly, and ending on Sph.C. 1, G. (Cast's 

 Lml 1). 



(Cast's second visceral longitudinal muscle pair, his Llm 2, appears 

 in vorax to be hypodermal, namely my R.C. V). 



(31) Deflexor coronse, d.c, paired, arising dorso-laterally by two 

 branches on the hypodermis, and passing forward to insert upon Sph.C. 

 I (Cast's Llm 3 and Llm 4). 



(d) Irregular muscles. 



(32) Contractor coronae primus, c.c. 1, lying deep in the dorsal wall 

 of the corona, a muscle ^Aath four arms (this is the one- considered by 

 Mecznikow to be a nerve gangUon ; it corresponds to the mb of Cast's 



fig. 1). 



(33) Contractor coronse secundus, c.c. 2, a muscle ring lying deep in 

 the dorsal wall of the corona behind the preceding, with three pairs of 

 lateral branches, and an unpaired medio-posterior branch (Cast's mbr). 



Cast has described the histology of these carefully, and I have 

 nothing new to add to his description. 



Nephridial system. — This (PI. XVIII, figs. 2, 3, 6) consists of the pos- 

 terior unpaired canal opening into the cloaca, the lateral canals, and 

 the ductules, the latter terminating each in a flame cell. Mecznikow 

 and Stokes have described these organs fragment arily, and Cast very 

 fully. 



The posterior canal (PI. XVIII, figs. 2, 3) which opens into the ante- 

 rior end of the cloaca (CI.) is unpaired, thick-walled, with the lumen 

 spirally twisted. At its anterior end the lateral canals join together, so 

 that the terminal portion ma}^ be considered having originated by their 

 fusion in the mid-line. Each lateral canal passes anteriorly, then bends 

 dorsally (fig. 2), and has a very distinct lumen and a thin waU. Where 

 the lateral canal turns dorsally it greatly enlarges in diameter to form a 

 tripartite swelling; each of the three parts of this swelling possesses 




1903 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



one nucleus, and each is a single large cell containing a much con- 

 voluted, somewhat pulsatile lumen. The dorsal termination of this 

 swollen portion lies at the boundary of corona and trunk, and at that 

 point joins with the common nephridial ductule. From this ductule 

 a secondary ductule passes anteriorly for a short distance, then divides 

 into three tertiary ductules (figs. 1, 2, 6). The most median of these 

 bears the first flame cell {FI.C. 1), and is connected with the correspond- 

 ing ductule of the opposite side by a transverse commissure (fig. 1) 

 placed above the mouth cavit3\ The middle tertiary ductule termi- 

 nates in the second flame cell {FI.C. 2). The most lateral tertiary duc- 

 tule bends ventrad, then just behind the lateral antenna divides into 

 two quartern ductules, the anterior of which is very short and termi- 

 nates in the third flame cell (FI.C. 3) placed near the lateral antenna, 

 while the posterior passes backward and follows the course of the lateral 

 canals of the nephridia, terminating in two short ductules each ending 

 in a flame cell (FI.C. 4, FI.C. 5). Finally, from the common nephridial 

 ductule pass backward on the dorsal surface of the trunk a pair of 

 secondary ductules, each of which terminates in a flame cell near the 

 mastax (FI.C. 6). Cast's account differs in that he states that what 

 I term flame cells 4 and 5 connect by short ductules directly with 

 the lateral canals. 



The nephridium of one side is thereby connected with that of the 

 other at its anterior end by a commissure of the ductules, and at its 

 posterior by fusion of the lateral canals. The only portion of the 

 nephridia which are ciliated are the terminal flame cells; these (fig. 6) 

 are completely closed from the body cavity, and each has an intra- 

 cellular canal in which beats a long tuft of ciha (a typical ''flame") 

 attached at the wall of the cell where the lumen ends; the terminal 

 end of each flame cell is somewhat enlarged, more or less amoeboid, and 

 contains one nucleus. The lumen of the ductules and of the lateral 

 canals is also intracellular; a pair of nuclei are always present on the 

 wall of the commissure connecting the anterior secondary ductules. 



Germarium (Eierstock, ^lecznikow; Keimdotterstock, Cast; ovary 

 of Stokes) has the same relations as in lentiformis. It lies on the ven- 

 tral side of the body (Ov., figs. 2, 3) anterior to the foot, often in an 

 irregular position due to the pressure of embryos upon it, a small 

 rounded mass of cells, with a distinct cellular hning which is continued 

 backward as the unpaired oviduct (Ovd.) and joins the cloaca between 

 the openings of the nephridia and the posterior intestine. It contains 

 yolk cells (nurse cells) to the number of 10-14, large cells without dis- 

 tinct boundaries, each with a large nucleus containing a huge nucleolus. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



A much smaller space is occupied by the much smaller germ cells, 

 placed near the duct, characterized by very small, deep-staining nuclei 

 and clear cytoplasm. Gast correctly noted these two kinds of cells 

 and their differences. The egg cells do not reach their full size -^dthin 

 the germarium, but only when they leave it and reach the oviduct, 

 which becomes dilated by them to serve as a uterus for the complete 

 embryonal development ; as many as five large embryos are found in 

 the uterus at one time, representing different stages of development. 

 Nervous system. — Stokes was the only one to see this organ complex 

 before the time of the very thorough account by Gast. The cerebral 

 ganglion lies in the mid-Une above the alimentar}^ tract (PI. XVIII, 

 Cer., figs. 1, 2), at the junction of corona and trunk or a little anterior 

 to*this point. Seen from the side (fig. 2) it appears ovoid, a little 

 longer than high. Seen from above {Ce7\, figs. 1, 6) it is found to be 

 widest in the transverse plane. Through each side of it passes a visceral 

 longitudinal muscle (levator coronae. I.e.). In life as well as in stained 

 preparations the following nerves can be seen passing from this cerebral 

 ganglion (figs. 1,6). From its dorso-anterior edge three pairs of deli- 

 cate nerves, which converge to the dorsal sense-organ (D.Sens.O.), 

 i.e., pass upward and forward from the gangUon. Each of these nerves 

 has a nucleus at the point where it joins the ganghon. From each side 

 pass out at least eight nerves : one for the latero-anterior sense-organ 

 (A.Sens.O); one for the latero-posterior sense-organ {L.Sens.O.); two 

 large nerves which pass back from the latero-posterior angle of the 

 ganglion but which could be traced only a short distance ; and four 

 other nerves which could be traced only a short distance, but one or 

 two of which appeared to be connected with the nephridial tubules. 

 The ganglion and its nerves are thus strictly bilaterally sjmimetrical. 



Now the three pairs of nerves which can be traced to the three sets 

 of sense-organs all arise from the dorsal margins of the ganghon; the 

 dorsal portion of the ganghon may then be essentially sensory. The 

 two large ventral posterior nerve pairs arise from two large cells, each 

 evidently bipolar, placed at the ventro-posterior margin of the gang- 

 lion; Gast noted only one of these and only one posterior nerve. These 

 two cells are characterized by their great size (they might be called on 

 this account neurochord cells, with reference to similar huge ceUs in 

 Nemertini, Annelida and Crustacea), and the large size of their nuclei. 

 Since these differ so markedly from the demonstrated sensory nerves, 

 it is very probable that they innervate either the musculature or the 

 viscera, i.e., that they are either motor or splanchnic in function. 

 Then since their roots are ventral in the ganglion, it would follow that 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



there may be a differentiation within the latter of a dorsal sensory and 

 a motor or sphlanchnic ventral portion. The nerve cells in the brain 

 are quite numerous and symmetrically arranged, but cell boundaries 

 are distinguishable only in the case of the two huge cells. Two con- 

 secutive sections of one and the same ganglion are figured (figs. 7, 8)> 

 cut in an obliquely horizontal plane, one passing through the nerves 

 to the lateral antennse and one of the huge cells (fig. 8), and the other 

 (fig. 7) passing further forward. In the latter can be seen what appears 

 to be a transverse fibrous commissure on the ventral surface of the 

 ganghon. The nerve cells are thus arranged mainly dorsally and 

 posteriorly. 



There are no recognizable nerve cells on the ventral surface of the 

 aUmentary tract, as far as can be determined by the usual staining 

 methods. 



Sense-organs. — The dorsal sense-organ {D.Sens.O., figs. 2, 6) is a 

 specialization of the hypodermis on the dorso-midline of the corona, 

 and was discovered by Gast. It consists of a group of cells (fig. 6) in 

 which one large and five small nuclei can be seen, which compose a 

 thickened area of the hypodermis, and above which there is a small 

 annular thickening of the cuticula; no sense hairs were seen. The 

 antero-lateral sense-organs, also discovered by Gast, lie each (A.Sens.O., 

 figs. 1, 6) upon the side of the corona, as a thickening of its wall. Each 

 consists of a cytoplasmic mass containing four large nuclei immediately 

 imbedded in a more granular cytoplasm, while into a more hj^aline 

 cytoplasm extends a slender cylindrical rod from the cuticula; there 

 are thus some differences from the relations in lentifor7nis. A single 

 nerve, containing a nucleus at its junction with the cerebral ganglion, 

 innervates each of these organs. The postero-lateral sense-organs 

 (lateral antennae) lie each on the side of the corona somewhat ventral 

 near the junction of the trunk (L.Sens.O., figs. 1-3). To each passes 

 one large nerve, with a large nucleus at its peripheral end ; and as Gast 

 also observed, the organ itself consists of a tubercular elevation of 

 the body wall, and on the apex of this a cyhndrical cuticular process, 

 bearing a tuft of long, non-vibratile sense hairs (fig. 6) ; the base of the 

 cuticular process is enlarged and extends below the hypodermis. 



Body cavity, connective tissues.— The bod}^ cavity contains a clear 

 fluid in which float masses, varying in number and size, of a brown 

 color; these are non-cellular and probably represent bye-products of 

 metabohsm. The connective tissue elements are branched, naked 

 cells with many processes, constantly changing their form and moving 

 about through the body cavity. They are frequently found in close 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



connection with the walls of the nephridia, particularly with the 

 anterior commissure. 



The imfnature female. — The free-swimming female (fig. 4), just 

 hatched from the egg, shows the follov^ing differences from the adult. 

 The corona is represented simply b}' a circular hypodermal thickening 

 bearing a row of vibratile cilia; and in the part of the trunk projecting 

 anteriorly beyond this ring he a pair of large red eyes (£'.). The 

 mouth {M.) is ventral, and the most anterior portion of the ahmentary 

 tract contains short ciUa which do not extend out of the mouth aperture. 

 The cerebral gangUon (Cer.) is much larger than in the adult. The 

 whole hypodermis is thicker, and that portion of it lining the well- 

 demarcated foot (F.) consists of about six huge cells (F.Gl.) which Gast 

 has shown to be gland ceUs, by the secretion of which the animal firmly 

 attaches itself. The surface of the foot disk is covered "uith long cilia. 

 The musculature I have not drawn in this figure, but it is similar to that 

 of the adult. 



STEPHANOCEROS, Ehrb. 



Historical. 



Stephanoceros was discovered in 1761 by Eichhorn, and he later fig- 

 ured it (1775, according to Ehrenberg). O. F. Miiller (1776) declared 

 it to be a Tubularian, and Oken(1815) also placed it among the hydroids. 

 Goldfuss (1820) first named it, calhng it Coronella jinibriata. Since 

 this generic term was preoccupied Ehrenberg (1832) changed it to 

 Stephanoceros, and called the species Stephanoceros Eichhornii, which 

 all later craters have followed. According to our present generally 

 accepted rules of nomenclature, however, and in justice to Goldfuss, 

 this species must be named S. fimbriatus (Goldfuss) and not S. eich- 

 hornii Ehrenb. Ehrenberg (1832, 1835, 1838) gave good figures of the 

 animal, described the intestine, stomach glands (which all later writers 

 seem to have overlooked), six longitudinal muscles, the ovary, and the 

 flame cells (which he termed gills). Perty (1852) described as a new 

 species S. glacialis, but this is generally held to be an abnormal indi- 

 vidual of fimbriatus. Leydig (1854) added richly to the knowledge of 

 its anatomy and development. He was the first to note the nucleated 

 hypodermis, circular muscles (he stated there are four longitudinal 

 muscles in the foot which divide dichotomously), the oesophageal tube, 

 ciUa in the coronal cup and intestine, lateral canals of the nephridia 

 (with Ehrenberg he regarded these organs as respiratory). Gosse 

 (1855) described minutely the mastax, and in 1862 gave quite a full 

 account of the structure ; by experiment he proved the nephridia to be 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



excretory and not respiratory, found the contractile vesicle, four flame 

 cells on each side of the bod}^, described the dorsal glandular mass 

 (found by Leydig) as the brain, and described five pairs of longitudinal 

 muscles. Cubitt (1870) found the lateral sense-organs, but made the 

 serious error of supposing that each of them was connected with a 

 flame cell (his pulsatile sac), and supposed them to be respiratory 

 structures for taking water into the nephridial tubules; he carefully 

 described the ciliary wreath ^^•ithin the coronal cup, but mistook (like 

 Leydig and most of the later describers) the dorsal glandular body for 

 the brain. Hudson and Gosse ( 1886) gave ver}^ good figures ; found five 

 flame cells on each side of the body, described the connection of the lateral 

 canals wdth the contractile vacuole, discovered the dorsal sense-organ, 

 and described six pairs of longitudinal muscles. Vallentin studied 

 stained sections; he found that large hypodermal cells of the foot 

 secrete the tube ; that the dorsal mass is not nervous but glandular and 

 opens by a duct into the vestibule; he regarded the large hypodermal 

 cells at the bases of the arms to be nerve cells. The male of this species 

 has been described by Western (1893) and more carefully by Dixon- 

 Nuttall (1896). Less important are the papers of Dujardin (1841), 

 Weisse (1845), Dobie (1854), Pritchard (1861), Cubitt (1869), Peirce 

 (1875), Rosseter (1881, 1884), Lord (1885), Jennings (1894, 1896, 1900, 

 allfaunistic). 



AXATOINIICAL. 



Nothing new can Ijc added to our knowledge of the external form 

 (PL XIX, fig. 16). The margin of the corona is prolonged into five 

 long arms, which are slightly flattened and extensile. These arms are 

 slightly curved, and the dorsal, mipaired one slightly longer than the 

 others. The body is long and slender, rather strongly demarcated 

 from the long foot which ends in a short peduncle (fig. 14). The gela- 

 tinous tube (Tub.) is very transparent, with annular folds, elastic and 

 of great thickness. 



Hypodermis. — The hypodermis {Hyp., figs. 9-11) of the trunk is a 

 thin layer with flattened nuclei. At the margin of the corona it is 

 much thickened, so as to form at the base of each of the arms a mass of 

 four or five large rounded nucleated cells. The hypodermis of the arms 

 is about as thick as that of the trunk, but neither in the hving state nor 

 upon preparations in which the nuclei of other regions of the hypoder- 

 mis are stained very sharply are nuclei to be found in it. The hypo- 

 dermis of the arms of the corona would therefore appear to be a direct 

 continuation of the cytoplasm of the lar^e hypodermal cells at the 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laV, 



base of the arms. Each of these cells then has a great extent, from 

 its base to the free tip of an arm. When the arms are fully extended 

 the outhnes of the hypodermis seen on optical section appear even, 

 ■uithout any irregularities. But when the arms are partially retracted, 

 the hypodermis appears partitioned into circular areas on its inner 

 surface; on surface view these are seen as in fig. 13; and on optical 

 section as in fig. 12. At first I was inclined to consider these as 

 representing component small cells of the hypodermis, but the 

 absence of nuclei in them excludes that view and they can be regarded 

 only as folds of the continuous hypodermis due to the contraction 

 of the arm. The arrangement of the cilia upon the arms is very 

 comphcated and has not yet been satisfactorily determined; it is 

 best seen on a living arm in a contracted condition. On the outer 

 as well as upon the inner surface of each arm the arrangement 

 of the cilia is shown by the dotted lines in fig. 12; there 

 the ciha are arranged in single rows, making angles together, these 

 single hues of ciha separated by spaces which are without ciha. But 

 on lateral view each arm shows a different arrangement of the cilia; 

 here (fig. 13) the ciha are arranged in tufts placed on obhciue thickenings 

 of the surface of the hypodermis. In tliis figure only those cilia seen 

 in profile are drawn in extenso, while the insertion points of those on 

 the aspect of the arm toward the observer are represented by stippling, 

 each patch of fine clots denoting a tuft of ciha. At the tips of the arms 

 the ciha are more evenly arranged along the whole hjqDodermis. The 

 appearance of the tufts of cilia, arranged in obhque bands, are sho'^ii 

 for the two ventral arms under a lower scale of magnification in fig. 16. 

 The cilia are extensile, and in fully expanded condition attain a length 

 considerably greater than that of the arms themselves; but this is to 

 be seen generally only when the animal is under the pressure of a cover- 

 glass. I could not determine the presence of a cuticula upon the arms. 



The hypodermis of the foot is thickened, and at the junction of this 

 region with the trunk (figs. 9, 10) certain cells are very prominent. 

 These may correspond to the foot glands of the other Rotatoria, and 

 secrete the substance of the tube in which the animal hves. The short 

 peduncle (fig. 14) by which the foot is attached probably represents a 

 secretion of hypodermal cells at the distal end; this peduncle is short, 

 hard and homogeneous. 



Alimentary tract. — By an oblique diaphragm (Dia., figs. 9, 10) the 

 cavity of the corona is divided into a more spacious infundibulum (Inf.) 

 and a more posterior vestibulmn {Vest.), both of which have a nucleated 

 lining similar to that composing the hypodermis. The diaphragm is 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



an annular fold composed of a more tliickened cell layer; it is shown in 

 oblique ventral view in fig. 11, on lateral view in fig. 9, and on dorsal 

 view in fig. 10. The drawings show that this ring fold bears ciUa along 

 the anterior border of its ventral half, a tuft of longer cilia on each side, 

 while the margin of its dorsal half has no ciha. Only this diaphragm 

 bears ciha, and none are found upon the waUs of the infundibulum and 

 vestibulum. 



By a narrow aperture there follows upon the vestibulum the oesopha- 

 geal tube {Oes. T.), the distal end of which projects freely without 

 attachment into the cavity of the proventriculus. Tliis is an elastic 

 tube that beats rapidly in many dilations and therefore probably pos- 

 sesses a musculature of its own; I could not determine nuclei in its 

 wall. The proventriculus (Prov.) is the largest portion of the ahmen- 

 tary tract, its wall composed of a single epithelium of large cells with 

 distinct nuclei, and lined internally by a cuticula. In this posterior 

 part hes the mastax, concerning which it vnW suffice to refer to fig. 18, 

 a dorso-posterior view. Gosse was wrong in considering it to be rudi- 

 mentary, for it has well developed vmci and manubria, fulcrum and 

 rami. The stomach (Stom.) is a rounded, dorsally placed sac lined by 

 large cells which bear numerous long ciha. The posterior intestine 

 {P.Int.) foUows, Uned by a flattened epithehum without cilia and with 

 distinct nuclei; and behind it a very short rectum opening into the 

 cloaca (CL). 



A single pair of large stomach glands (Stom.Gl., figs. 9, 10) are present, 

 each later o-ventral at the junction of proventriculus and foot, and each 

 containing several nuclei. 



Musculature. — ^The followdng longitudinal visceral muscles run from 

 the foot through the body cavity of the trunk to attach themselves to 

 the bases of the arms of the corona (figs. 9-11). One pair to the dorsal 

 arm, extending to its outer sphincter muscle. A pair of dorso-lateral 

 muscles, each of which inserts anteriorly on the thickened hypodermal 

 ring of the corona at the junction of the dorsal with a lateral arm. 

 And a pair of ventro-lateral muscles, each of w'hich, when reaching the 

 thickened hypodermal ring of the corona, divides into two branches 

 which pass forward to the outer sphincter muscle of the coronal arms. 

 Thus I find only three pairs of longitudinal muscles. All these muscles 

 have their muscle bodies with nuclei contained in the foot. Of the 

 circular hypodermal musculature, there are a large number of deUcate 

 sphincters in the foot and trunk region, and at the anterior end of the 

 corona two sphincter muscles of large size {Sph.C. I and //, figs. 9-11). 

 The remaining complicated network of musculature of the corona I have 

 not studied. 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



Nephridial sr/st€77i. — The whole nephridial system of one side of the 

 body is shown in fig. 9. and a portion of it from dorsal view in fig. 10. 

 Into the posterior end of the cloaca (C/.)opens the unpaired contractile 

 vacuole (Con.V.); and into tliis a long elongate unpaired sac with dis- 

 tinct outer fining and containing a convoluted tube with -^-ide, pulsatile 

 lumen, the common terminal canal. At the free end of the latter unite 

 with it the two longitudinal canals of the nephridia. Each of these 

 passes forward latero-ventrally to about the level of the stomach 

 glands, and there becomes much convoluted so that the exact course 

 is difficult to follow; but through all these convolutions it remains a 

 single tube with distinct walls. Each lateral canal then turns dorsad 

 to alaout the position of the cerebral ganglion where it again becomes 

 convoluted; its diameter is greatest in this portion of its course. At 

 this anterior end the ductules are given off to the flame cells, and, as 

 fig. 9 shows, one ductule passes forward and divides into five ductules, 

 each ending in a flame cell (Fl.C. 1, Fl.C. 2). A second ductule passes 

 posteriorly and ends in a flame cell (Fl.C. 6) placed near the stomach. 

 In one individual I saw two other flame cells (Fl.C. 7, Fl.C. 8) placed 

 near the sixth flame ceU, but their connections "^ith the ductules of the 

 nephridial system I did not find. As the dorsal ^dew, fig. 10, shows, 

 in front of the cerebral ganglion a transverse commissure connects the 

 ductules of the two sides of the body. Each flame ceU (fig. 15) bears 

 internalh' a flame of long cifia, and appears completely closed from the 

 body cavity. The lumen of aU the ductules and the main canals is 

 intracellular, and ciha are found only in the flame cells. The whole 

 nephridial system is exceedingly distinct in life, provided the animal is 

 well expanded. 



Dorsal glandular organ. — On the dorsal side, at the junction of the 

 corona with the trmik, hes a large mass (D.GL, flgs. 9, 10) of clear 

 vacuolar structures, which has been heretofore regarded by most 

 writers as the brain. It is composed of clear transparent globules, 

 varies in size in different individuals, and becomes shrimken by the 

 action of alcohol. Nuclei are to be seen at its margins, particularly 

 posteriorly, but I was unable to determine whether each of its com- 

 ponent globules represents a cell. This organ is closely attached to 

 the dorsal hypodermis around the dorsal sense-organ (D.Seris.O., 

 fig. 9), and is penetrated by the nerves wliich pass to the latter from 

 the cerebral ganghon (Cer.) ; it has no connection -odth the ahmentary 

 tract. The functional significance of this organ is wholly obscure, 

 and I have supposed it to be glandular simply on accovmt of its con- 

 nection A\dth the hypodermis and the dorsal sense-organ. It is not 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



probable that it forms the secretion for the tube, since it is of very large 

 size in those large individuals with fully-formed tubes. 



Germarium, oviduct. — The germarium {Ov., figs. 9, 10) is a more or less 

 spherical organ placed on the ventral side of the body, composed of a 

 syncytium (fig. 17) containing fully fifteen large nuclei which are nurse 

 cells (yolk cells), and with at one end much smaller nuclei (ovogonia). 

 The whole is surrounded by a nucleated membrane which is continued 

 as a thin-walled unpaired oviduct (Ovd.) to open into the ventral sur- 

 face of the cloaca between the rectal and the nephridial openings. 

 One ovum matures at a time within the germarium, then is discharged 

 into the oviduct which serves as a uterus for its further development 

 until it reaches the free-swimming stage. As many as four or five 

 embryos are to be found at once in the uterus. 



Nervous system. — Most of the preceding writers have mistaken the 

 dorsal glandular body for the ganglion, while Vallentin recognized this 

 body as glandular, but supposed it to open by a duct into the ahmentary 

 canal, and considered the large hypodermal cells at the bases of the 

 arms to be nerve cells. The cerebral ganglion (Cer., figs. 9, 10) lies 

 directly below the dorsal glandular mass, is elongate from side to side 

 and approximately cylindrical on lateral view. On stained prepara- 

 tions I could determine that it is composed of many small nerve cells, 

 the nuclei of which stain deeply. On lateral view of the expanded 

 living animal (fig. 9) the following nerves are seen to arise from it : 

 (1) One pair which passes directly dorsad or dorso-caudad to innervate 

 the dorsal sense-organ (D.Sens.O.); this pair penetrates the dorsal 

 glandular body, and probably represents what Vallentin mistook for 

 a glandular duct leading into the vestibulum. (2) A pair of nerves to 

 each lateral sense-organ (L.Sens.O.). (3) An unpaired, veiy delicate 

 median nerve to the dorsal hypodermis behind the dorsal sense-organ. 

 (4) A pair of nerves which pass backward upon the sides of the prov- 

 entriculus (Prov.). And (5) a pair of nerves, the largest of all, which 

 pass ventrad on the sides of the proventriculus. I have found no 

 evidence that the large hypodermal cells at the bases of the arms are 

 nervous ; the long fibres which Vallentin found proceeding from them 

 probably represent the continuations of these cells to form the walls of 

 the arms. 



Sense-organs. — Eyes were seen only in one individual, a pair of small 

 red spots (£'.,. fig. 9), lying close to the cerebral gangUon. The dorsal 

 sense-organ (D.Sens.O., figs. 9, 10) is a shght thickening of the hypo- 

 dermis bearing a tuft of short sense hairs, which penetrate a circular 

 aperture of the cuticula. Each lateral sense-organ (L.Sens.O.) has 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lav, 



one conspicuous large nucleus, and likewise bears a tuft of short 

 cilia. 



The body cavity is voluminous in the trunk and the foot (but does 

 not continue into the peduncle of the latter). In it are free-floating, 

 non-cellular corpuscles, probably waste products. The cavity of the 

 arms is continuous with that of the trunk (figs. 9-11). Very few 

 connective tissue cells are present in the body cavity. 



FLOSCULARIA, Oken. 



Historical. 



Of the numerous writers upon this genus only the folloT\ing have 

 considered to any extent the internal anatomy: Ehrenberg (1834, 1838) 

 wrote with all the enthusiasm of the naturalist: "Sie sind einzeln, wie 

 seltene sch5ne Blumen auf einer Wiese, und erfreuen gleich ihnen das 

 Auge des Beobachters." He found the mastax, oesophageal tube 

 and the stomach glands. Dobie (1849) gave a careful description with 

 good figures, and distinguished the infundibulum, vestibulum and 

 proventriculus ; he saw the ciha on the diaphragm. Leydig (1854) 

 added to this description in finding the contractile vacuole and the 

 longitudinal muscles. Gosse (1855) described in some detail the masti- 

 catory apparatus; and (1862) erroneously termed a vascular system 

 the narrow spaces of the body cavity in which float excretory cor- 

 puscles. The account of Moxon (1864) is much more thorough than any 

 of the preceding, and contains the discovery of the dorsal and lateral 

 antennse, correct position of the cilia within the infundibulum, and 

 occurrence of the nephridia with four flame cells on each side of the 

 body. Cubitt (1869) studied particularly the ciha within the coronal 

 cup. The papers of Grenacher (1869) and Cubitt (1872) added little 

 new. Eckstein (1884) gave a careful account of the hypodermis, 

 and the muscles and peduncle of the foot. Hudson and Gosse (1886) 

 add but little to the account of Moxon. The paper by Hood (1895) I 

 have not seen. The males have been described by Hudson and Gosse 

 and by Weber (1888). But the best of these descriptions, those of 

 Dobie and Moxon, leave much untouched in regard to the finer 



anatomy. 



Anatomical. 



F. campanulata Dobie (PI. XX, figs. 27-35; PI. XXI) was the species 

 obtained in the greatest numbers, and on this account its anatomy 

 could be more fully determined than that of the others. F. conkUni 

 Montg. (figs. 25, 26, PI. XX) was obtained at the same time, but it 

 is rather a difficult form to investigate on account of the large number 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



of minute floating cDrpascles within the body cavity which greatly ob- 

 scure the internal organs. F. coronetta Cubitt (PI. XX, figs. 22-24) 

 and F. amhigua Hudson (PL XIX, figs. 19-21) were the other species 

 studied, but amhigua in only a few individuals, so that for this species 

 my observations are unfortunately fragmentary. 



General form. — In all Floscularians there may be distinguished 

 the corona, trunk and foot (PI. XXI, fig. 37). The corona is in ante- 

 rior extension and enlargement of the trunk. In campanulata (PI. XX, 

 figs. 27, 28, 31) it is largest, widely bell-shaped and prolonged into five 

 broad lobes, the dorsal of which, is largest and longest, next the two 

 ventral lobes, and smaller than these the two lateral lobes. In this 

 species the corona is subject to considerable individual variations in 

 form, but is always much wider and fully as long as the trunk. In 

 ambigua (PI. XIX, fig. 20) the corona is relatively smaller, and of its 

 five lobes the lateral pair are usually very small and often distinguish- 

 able only by the cilia which they bear. In conklini (PI. XX, figs. 25, 

 26) the corona is more cylindrical, frequently considerably less than half 

 the length of the trunk, the lateral lobes also very small. In coronetta 

 (PL XX, figs. 22. 23) the lobes are more cylindrical and narrowed, 

 with enlarged (knobbed) tips, the dorsal one only slightly longer than 

 the others. 



The trunk is elongate and cylindrical, in conMini (fig. 25) more arched 

 on the ventral than on the dorsal side. The foot is an elongate proxi- 

 mal extension of the body, relatively longest in conklini and coronetta. 

 The foot ends in a peduncle by which the animal is firmly attached to 

 the surface of a water plant stem. This peduncle is much longer than 

 broad in catnpanulata (PL XXI, fig. 40) and ambigua, Uttle longer than 

 broad in coronetta (PL XX, fig. 24), and fully as broad as long in 

 conMini (fig. 26). These different species were all found attached to 

 Myriophyllum, but to different parts of it, campanulata always to the 

 very finest outgrowths of the plant; conklini usually to the angles at 

 the bases of stems; amhigua and coronetta to larger stems. 



In all these forms the animal is surrounded by a gelatinous, elastic 

 tube (PL XXI, fig. 37, Tub.), with an anterior opening; in conklini 

 (PL XX, fig. 26) the tube is relatively largest and its outer surface 

 often covered with foreign particles, and in campanulata it is exceed- 

 ingly transparent and usually without any such adherent particles. 

 By a weak solution of methylene blue the tube quickly becomes colored 

 intensely; and this method of demonstrating it shows its form with 

 great distinctness. 



The animals are highly contractile, thanks to the strongly developed 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



longitudinal muscles; the coronal lobes may be folded into the infun- 

 dibulum, the whole corona and trunk much shortened, and the foot 

 so contracted that its peduncle is brought close to the trunk. 



Hypodermis. — The hypodermis of the trunk is a thin, one-layered 

 epithehum, ^ith relatively few nuclei (Hyp., figs. 20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28). 

 It bears a hyahne, structureless cuticula (Cut.). On the free margin 

 of the corona it is much thickened and contains large nuclei which are 

 easily seen even in life. In campanulata (PL XX, figs. 27, 28) this 

 coronal thickening follows the margin of each lobe, and at the tips of 

 the dorsal and ventral lobes are particularly large nuclei. That is 

 also the case \^^th ambigua (PI. XIX, fig. 20). In conklini (PI. XX, 

 fig. 25) the dorsal lobe has the hypodermis thickened only at its tip. 

 In coronetta (figs. 22, 23) the hypodermal thickening forms a ring around- 

 the base of the lobes, while the hypodermis forming the walls of the 

 lobes is but little thicker than that of the trunk; this is an approach 

 to the condition in Stephanoceros , and will probably be found to be the 

 case in all forms where the lobes are slender. Another peculiarity 

 of coronetta is that the cuticula covering the lobes is thicker than else- 

 where upon the body ; in the other species I could not distinguish with 

 certainty a cuticula upon the lobes, though probabty a delicate one is 

 present. 



The cilia of the external surface are limited in the adult to the mar- 

 gins and lobes of the corona. In conklini (figs. 25, 26) these cilia are 

 no longer than the corona, and strongh^ vibratile; they are found also 

 only upon the tips of the lobes. In coronetta the tip of each coronal 

 lobe bears a tuft of long cilia (fully as long as the trunk), which have 

 a slow undulatory movement; while the sides of the lobes and the 

 interlobular margin of the corona bears much shorter cilia with a more 

 rapid movement. In campanulata (PI. XXI, fig. 37) the cilia fringe 

 the whole free margin of the corona. Here they are longest upon the 

 tips of the lobes, but all have a length greater than that of the corona 

 and trunk together, and sometimes nearh' two-thirds that of the entire 

 animal. The cilia in this species are non-\dbratile, or at most with 

 shght undulator}^ movements, and toward their free ends become grad- 

 ually exceedingly tenuous. All preceding authors have figured them 

 much too short, probably because their full length can be determined 

 only with high powers of magnification. These cilia are less like true 

 ciha than like the tenuous, stiff pseudopodia of Heliozoa; and hke the 

 latter they are extensile and retractile to some degree at least, as is 

 shown by a protoplasmic flowing. They serve not to obtain food par- 

 ticles by ciliary currents, but rather as a wide basket to encompass the 



I 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



prey. Generally the}" are held stiff and rigid; but at times wave-like 

 undulations are seen to pass slowly along them. Unlike a hehozoan 

 pseudopodimn there is no supporting axial filament witliin them. 

 Amhigua has cilia like those of campamdata, and also fringing the 

 whole coronal margin. In these two species and in coronetta the ciha 

 project out of the anterior end of the body in a thick tuft when the 

 animal is strongly contracted. 



In the foot the hypodermis is thicker than in the trunk, composed 

 of larger ceUs. Its cells are largest at the jimction of the trunk with 

 the foot (PL XIX, fig. 20; PL XX, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28) ; and these may 

 be gland cells which produce the gelatinous tube. The peduncle (figs. 

 24, 40) is homogeneous without cells or nuclei ; it probably represents 

 a secretion of certain large hypodermal cells found in the embryo but 

 absent in the adult, which are placed at the distal end of the foot (PL 

 XXI, fig. 38). The peduncle is firmly attached to the plant stem, so 

 securely that when the animal is torn loose from its tube the peduncle 

 is often left still attached. 



Alimentary tract. — The following regions are marked in all the forms : 

 infundibulum, vestibulum, oesophageal tube, proventriculus, stomach, 

 posterior intestine, rectum, cloaca. 



The infundibulum {Inf., figs. 20, 22, 25, 28) is the cavity of the ante- 

 rior portion of the corona, and its opening to the exterior constitutes 

 the broad mouth. It is lined by a thin one-layered epithelium in which 

 nuclei can be distinguished by staining, is without ciha, and its wall 

 is separated from the hj'podermis to which it is attached only at its 

 anterior margins, by the body cavity. The infundibulum is partially 

 bounded off from the vestibvilmn behind it by the diaphragm. This 

 {Dia., figs. 22, 23, 25, 27, 28) is a thickened annular fold of the internal 

 wall of the alimentary tract, and the only porti(jn of the latter anterior 

 to the stomach which is ciliated. Viewed from in front, i.e., from the 

 mouth opening, it appears circular with a knob-like thickening at each 

 side in campamdata (fig. 31). Each of these knobs bears a tuft of long 

 and slowly vibratile cilia, while the border of the diaphragm ventral to 

 these knobs bears a semicircle of very short and delicate, rapidly 

 vibratile cilia. There are no cilia dorsal to the knobs. In conklini 

 (fig. 25) the relations are in general similar. In coronetta (figs. 22, 23) 

 the dorsal free margin of the diaphragm is considerably thicker, and 

 bears short pointed projections (like those within the infundibulum 

 of Apsilus) ; while the ventral margin bears rather long cilia upon sev- 

 eral knobs. In all these species (I did not determine the relations in 

 amhigua) the cilia appear usually to beat forward, i.e., into the in- 




3S4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



fimdibulum, but frequently they point backward and beat in the 

 vestibuhim. The latter (Vest., figs. 20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28) is the portion 

 of the alimentary tract placed at the base of the corona, at the junction 

 with the trunk; its lining is like that of the infundibulum. 



Attached to the narrowed posterior aperture of the vestibulum is a 

 slender tube, the oesophageal tube, {Oes.T., figs. 20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28), 

 which extends back without posterior attachment into the proven- 

 triculus. This tube is very thin-walled, and constantly moves in rapid 

 undulations and distortions, so that its shape can be made out only 

 when it comes to rest. Nuclei could not be determined in its walls 

 in life, and all fixatives preserve it as poorly as they do the nephridia; 

 so that stained preparations did not help in understanding its structure. 

 But verj' delicate spirally arranged muscle fibrils compose a part of 

 its wall; and it is probable that it possesses a nerve center of its own 

 since it continues to beat after the other organs have ceased to live. 

 In a state of rest (figs. 34, 35) it is cylindrical with a posterior enlarge- 

 ment, and a very small posterior aperture into the proventriculus. It 

 is verv elastic to allow the passage of large objects of food {Infusoria 

 and Mastigophora in the species studied), and may sometimes be 

 everted anteriorly into the vestibulum. 



The proventriculus (Prov., figs. 20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28) is a large sac 

 lined by a rather thick epithelium, ^vith readily distinguishable nuclei; 

 its internal surface is bounded by a delicate cuticula. At its posterior 

 end lies the mastax (Mast.). This consists of chitinous, jointed parts, 

 the manducatory apparatus, and of musculature for their movement. 

 Gosse (1855) holds that Stephanoceros and Floscularia have no mastax 

 in the sense that this term is used for other Rotatoria, i.e., that in the 

 Flosculariidce it is not a special portion of the alimentary tract with a 

 lining of its own. But it is surely homologous with that of the other 

 groups, and though relatively very small I find it is not rudiment- 

 ary but possesses all the characteristic parts found in the other 

 Rotatoria. Thus in campanulota (PL XXI, fig. 39) the manubrimn 

 consists of two teeth, together constituting the uncus (Un.), and 

 of a basal piece, the manubrium (Man.). A broad chitinous plate 

 belonging also to the malleus lies below the uncus. The incus consists 

 of a median fulcrum (Ful.) and of lateral rami (Ram.). The muscula- 

 ture is difficult to determine in its exact arrangement, so that I have 

 not drawn it, but is readily seen in the living animal. The organ then 

 has a special lining, the musculature, and is truly a mastax in the sense 

 of Gosse, even though it does not form a separate compartment of the 

 alimentary tract ; and this is the case also in Stephanoceros and Apsilus. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



The stomach (Sto7n., figs. 20, 22, 25, 27, 28) is thick-walled, with 

 large cubical cells bearing long cilia ; this is the assimilative portion of 

 the intestine, and its cells are more or less filled with globules. Upon 

 it follows the posterior intestine (P. Int.), lined by a thin-walled, nucle- 

 ated epithelium without ciha. Here the faeces form large food balls 

 in ambigua, but not in the other species. By a short rectum {Rec), 

 often barely distinguishable from the posterior intestine, an opening 

 into the cloaca (CI.) is attained. The cloaca is ciliated apparently only 

 in coronetta (figs. 22, 23), is very thin-walled, and opens to the exterior 

 by the cloacal aperture placed dorsally at the junction of the trunk and 

 the foot, or a httle anterior to it. The diameter of the different por- 

 tions of the alimentary tract is dependent upon the amount of food 

 contained in them. 



One pair of stomach glands {Stom.GL, figs. 20, 22, 23, 25, 28) is pres- 

 ent in all the species, placed latere- ventrally at the boundary of 

 stomach and proventriculus. In coronetta (figs. 22, 23) and ambigua 

 (fig. 20) each gland is elongate with a single large nucleus, in conklini 

 (fig. 25) pyriform with several nuclei, in campanulata (fig. 28) of the 

 same shape but with one nucleus. The connection of these glands 

 with the stomach was determined positively only for ambigua, but there 

 can be doubt that they discharge into the stomach and not into the 

 proventriculus in the other forms also. 



A peculiar structure was found in every individual of ambigua, but 

 in none of the other species. This was a body of a brown color 

 {X.Y., fig. 20) placed in the posterior intestine, with a thick wall, a 

 deep-staining body (nucleus ?) in this wall, and i-ather vacuolar 

 contents. It appeared to lie within the posterior intestine. It can 

 hardly be a parasite, since exactly one of these bodies was found in 

 the same region in each individual. 



Musculature. — An exhaustive study of the musculature, such as was 

 given for Apsilus, was not attempted for Floscularia. Of the hypo- 

 dermal musculature (the following description applies particularly 

 to campanulata) a number of delicate transverse muscles are present 

 around the foot and trunk (fig. 27) ; by their contraction these portions 

 of the body are compressed, and the body fluid driven forward to 

 unfold the corona. In the corona this musculature is richly developed 

 (figs. 27, 28), though the separate muscles are fine. Two sphincter 

 muscles are present here, one close to the coronal margin and another 

 behind it. Numerous slender longitudinal muscles connect these to- 

 gether and with the hyopdermal thickening. The diaphragm has its 

 own sphincter, and receives branches of the lateral and ventral longi- 

 25 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



tudinal trunk jnuscles; while the walls of the vestibulum have a rich 

 network of muscles. There are three pairs of large visceral longitudinal 

 muscles (figs. 22, 23, 25, 27, 28), a pair of dorsal (D.M.), of lateral 

 (L.M.) and of ventral (F.ilf .) muscles respectively, attached anteriorly 

 to the coronal margin, passing the whole of the trunk and in the foot 

 converging together to form a muscle band which extends posteriorly 

 as far as the proximal end of the peduncle (fig. 40); the cell bodies 

 (Musc.C.^ fig. 28), and nuclei of these large muscle cells are placed 

 ■udthiUjthe foot. Probably the proventriculus has its proper muscula- 

 ture, thought it could not be determined; and the muscles of the oesoph- 

 ageal tube have been already mentioned. 



Nephridial system. — This is essentially the same in conhlini (fig. 25), 

 campanulata (28, 30, 41) and coronetta (figs. 22, 23). Opening into the 

 posterior end of the cloaca is an unpaired, thin-walled contractile vesi- 

 cle {Con.V.), and into this an unpaired contorted canal enclosed by a 

 membrane. From the proximal end of this canal pass forward the 

 two longitudinal canals, one on each side of the trunk, a little more 

 ventral than dorsal in position. The anterior portion of each of these 

 canals becomes convoluted, and tliis convoluted portion is thicker than 

 the rest of the duct with a narrower lumen, and somewhat contractile. 

 It is only by continued study of compressed hving individuals that the 

 bendings and interlacings of these very transparent canals can be deter- 

 mined. Anteriorly each longitudinal canal gives off an anterior and 

 a posterior ductule. Each anterior ductule divides close to the lateral 

 wall of the corona into three secondary ductules, each terminating in 

 a single flame cell (Fl.C). The posterior ductule passes caudad to 

 about the region of the oesophageal tube on the side of the body, then 

 divides into two secondary ductules, a shorter dorsal one ending in a 

 flame cell on the side of the mastax, and a longer ventral branch ter- 

 minating in another flame cell on the latero-ventral aspect of the trunk. 

 In cojiklini I could not ascertain the mode of union of the ductules 

 with the lateral canals, on account of the large number of those floating 

 corpuscles within the body cavity which greatly obscure the nephridial 

 organs. F. ambigua (fig. 21) differs from the preceding species in 

 having six flame cells and ductules on each side of the body, i.e. an 

 additional one near the anterior end of the longitudinal duct. 

 Ambigua also differs from the other forms in having the membranous 

 tube which encloses the posterior unpaired canal much longer than in 

 the other species; but I did not have sufficient material to determine 

 its exact length. Only in coronetta (fig. 23) is there an anterior com- 

 missure joining branches of the anterior ductules of the two sides of 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



the body. In Floscidaria the flame cells are readily found, but it is 

 very difficult to find all the connections of the ductules and tubules. 



Cilia are found only within the flame cells, as a long intracellular tuft 

 or flame, and these terminal cells appear entirely closed off from the 

 bod}" cavity; thejdiave also no connection whatsoever with the lateral 

 antennse (as one observer had supposed). 



Organs of problematical significance. — In conklini there is found a 

 large transparent structure {Gl., fig. 25) immediately below the hypo- 

 dermis (and peripheral to the other internal organs), at the junction of 

 the corona and trunk. It is lobed and forms here a ring just beneath 

 the hypodermis, and attached to it. It appears to be gelatinous. Prob- 

 ably this is a glandular structure, and the dorsal gland of Stephano- 

 ceros may be homologous. 



In coronetta a vesicular dorsal, hypodermal structure {D.Gl., fig. 23). 

 probably a gland, is found just below the dorsal sense-organ. 



Nei'vous systejn, sense-organs. — In all the species the cerebral ganglion 

 (Cer., figs. 20, 22, 23, 25, 28) lies deep below the hypodermis, on the 

 dorsal surface of the vestibulum; it is elongate from side to side and 

 composed of numerous small nerve cells. The nerves arising from it 

 were studied most thoroughly in campanulata . In this species (figs. 28, 

 32) the ganglion seen from the side shows quite clearly a distinction 

 between a dorsal and a ventral portion. From the dorsal side two 

 nerves pass anteriorly to the dorsal sense-organ (D.Sens.O.), and a 

 single nerve in the median line posteriorly to end on the h^-podermis. 

 From the anterior edge of the ventral portion of the ganglion a large 

 nerve fiber passes antero-laterally to each lateral sense-organ {L.Sens. 

 0.) ; two smafler nerve pairs pass posteriorly from its posterior margin ; 

 and from its lateral margin a pair of large nerves on each side down- 

 ward and backward along the surface of the proventriculus. These 

 nerve fibers could be seen more clearly in life than upon stained prep- 

 arations ; methylene blue staining gave no positive results. 



In coronetta there is found on the sides of the corona a single pair of 

 small red eyes {E., figs. 22, 23). In some adult indi\'iduals of amhigna 

 (fig. 20), but not in all, were found a number of eyes, up to five in all, 

 on the dorso-posterior part of the corona; these have an irregular ar- 

 rangement, and each consists of a few large red pigment granules. 

 Campanulata and conklini have no eyes in the adult stage. All the 

 species possess an unpaired dorsal {D.Sens.O., figs. 20, 22, 25, 28), and a 

 pair of lateral sense-organs {L.Sens.O., figs. 20, 23, 27, 28) (antennse) 

 upon the corona, each bearing a tuft of long sense hairs. In campanu- 

 lata the dorsal organ (D.Sens.O., fig. 32) was found to consist of from 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



four to six hypodermal cells, the sense hairs of which project outward 

 through an aperture in the cuticula. 



Female genital organs. — In campamdata (Ov., figs. 27, 28), coronetta 

 (Ov., figs. 22, 23) and conklini (fig. 25) there is a more or less rounded 

 germarium upon the ventral surface of the trunk; its cellular lining 

 is continued caudad as the oviduct (which serves also as an uterus), 

 and the latter opens as an unpaired tube into the cloaca between the 

 openings of the rectum and the ne])hridia (figs. 29, 30). The germarium 

 consists for the greater part of its bulk of a syncytium of yolk cells with 

 large nuclei (Yk.N.) and huge nucleoli; there are some fifteen or more 

 of these cells. At one end of the germarium is a cap of cells with 

 much smaller nuclei, wliich are ovogonia (Ovg.). As the latter increase 

 in size they are pushed in succession into the oviduct, where the 

 cleavage commences. In conklini and canipanulata two or three large 

 ova are found in the oviduct (uterus) at once, in campanulata never 

 more than a single one. In ambigua the germarium has an entirely 

 different form (Ov., figs. 19, 20); it begins proximally upon the dorsal 

 left-hand side of the trunk, extends down that side, then across the 

 ventral region to the right hand of the trunk, and at the latter point 

 the mature ova are found in the oviduct. I could not determine, 

 owing to lack of material, where the ovogonia are placed within this 

 remarkable germarium. 



Body cavity. — This Ues beneath the hypodermis, is continued in 

 the coronal lobes, and in the foot as far posterior as the peduncle. In 

 it float masses of minute, brownish, non-cellular corpuscles, which vary 

 in number in different individuals of the same species, and in conklini 

 are always exceedingly numerous and very minute. They are dissolved 

 by alcohol, and the larger of them often appear doubly refractive. 

 They must be metabolic products, probably waste products, but I 

 have never found them within the nephridial lumina. In ambigua 

 when the animal is fully extended and somewhat compressed in hfe 

 beneath the cover-glass, it appears as if these corpiLscles flowed wdthin 

 special channels between the hypodermis and the infundibulum, and 

 like Gosse (1862) I was at first inchned to believe that there existed here 

 a subhypodermal vascular system. But further study showed that 

 the apparent canals are not fixed structures but simply portions of the 

 general body cavity. 



The immature female. — This stage was studied particularly in 

 ambigua, but the general characteristics are the same in all the species. 

 This free-swimming stage (PL XIX, fig. 21), just hatched from the egg, 

 has only an incipient corona and foot. The other differences from the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



adult are mainly the following: Two red ej^es (E.) are present in all 

 the species except in conklini. No coronal lobes are yet developed, 

 but at the anterior end of the trunk is a thickened hypodermal ring 

 bearing a row of vibratile cilia. On the ventral side of and just behind 

 this ring is the mouth opening (M.), leading into a capacious infundibu- 

 lum (from which a vestibvilum has not yet become demarcated), the 

 inner lining of which bears long cilia. It is important to note that these 

 ciHa lie within the alimentar}^ tract, i.e., belong to its inner lining and 

 thus cannot represent a cingulum. The thickened hypodermal ring 

 becomes subsequently prolonged to form the coronal lobes, and the 

 cilia of the infundibulum are at no time a portion of the corona. 

 Above this portion of the alimentary tract hes a large dense mass, part 

 of which may represent the cerebral ganglion (Cer.). The hypodermis 

 of the foot consists of a few enormous cells. A tuft of cilia projects 

 posteriorly from the posterior end of this incipient foot; and in its 

 axis lies a hollow cyhnder of cells enclosing a granular, elongate body, 

 which may represent the gland (F.Gl.) which forms the peduncle. The 

 tuft of cilia at the posterior end of this embryonic foot was found, in a 

 somewhat older stage of campanulata which had attached itself and 

 developed a peduncle, to be still present and placed at the junction of 

 the foot and peduncle; in the figure (PL XXI, 38) the cyhndrical 

 cellular mass within the foot probably represents embryonic muscle cells 

 of the foot. The remaining organs are essentially as in the adult. 



The mature male of F. caynpanulata. — The males of this species 

 were found in November and the first half of December; the male eggs, 

 as in other Rotatoria, are more numerous and smaller than the' eggs 

 which give rise to females. The mature male (PI. XXI, fig. 36) in 

 size and general structure, disregarding the sexual organs and the ali- 

 mentary tract, shows a great similarity to the immature female. It 

 lacks an ahmentary tract entirely, and I was unable to find a nephridial 

 system, though undoubtedly the latter must be present. The thick- 

 ened hypodermal ring at the anterior end of the body bears a single 

 ring of long, vibratile cilia, and in the projection of the trunk anterior 

 to this ring lie two semicircular, dorsal, red e3'es (E.). The foot (F.) 

 is very short, without peduncle. The hypodermis (Hyp.) is thickened 

 and with an irregurlaly scalloped inner contour. A dorsal sense-organ 

 (D.Sens.O.) is well developed. In the anterior region of the trunk lies 

 a large mass which may in part represent a cerebral ganglion (Cer.). 

 The genital organs consist of a huge sperm sac (Sp.S.) connected with 

 a cirrhus (Cir.). This sperm sac is filled with spermatozoa, and its 

 walls thin except at one point on its dorsal surface which is thickened; 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



probably tliis tliickening represents the germinal epithelium and there- 

 fore the testis (Test.) proper. A curled thick-walled tube, the cirrhus, 

 follows the sperm sac; its hmien, the vas deferens {V.D.), is very 

 narrow. A tliin-walled short tube connects the posterior end of this 

 cirrhus ^\^th the dorsal genital aperture; and "uithin this tube beat 

 long ciha which are attached to the posterior end of the cirrhus. The 

 cirrhus may be protruded some distance out of the genital aperture, 

 and probably serves as an intromittent copulatory organ. On the 

 ventral side of the cirrhus, in close attachment to its waU, is a large 

 dense body (Gl.) vnth. an axial pyi'iform clear space; I interpret this 

 to be a gland, and the clear space to be its duct. Just posterior to 

 this gland is a lobed body projecting into the body cavity, bearing on 

 one of its surfaces long cilia which beat in the bod}^ cavity. No 

 further structures were observed in the liAing animal. 



The copulation was not observed. In a numlDer of the females studied 

 at the time the males occurred were found spermatozoa, from one to 

 about a dozen in each female. All seen were mthin the body cavity 

 of the female and none in any portion of her genital tract. The 

 spermatozoa (PL XX, fig. 33) are relatively huge lumbricoid cells, very 

 elongate, the more vibratile end of which appears to correspond to a 

 thick fiagellum; they are exceedingly active and tT^ist about "udthin 

 the female, and ^^-ithin the sperm sac of the male, like animated cork- 

 screws. 



CoxcLUDixG Remarks. 



The family of the Flosculariidce includes the three genera Floscularia, 

 Stephanoceros and Apsilus. Leidy's description of Acyclus is too incom- 

 plete to allow us to determine whether this form should be included 

 in the group also. Apsilus differs quite markedly from both Floscu- 

 laria and Stephanoceros (these two are very similar), but agrees with 

 them in possessing an cesphageal tube, in the similar relations of the 

 nephriclial and nervous systems, and in the great similarity of the young. 

 The immature females just hatched from the egg have the foot bearing 

 a tuft of ciha at its distal end. 



The general characteristics of the family are as follows, based upon 

 the few species already known anatomically : The anterior portion of the 

 trunk is expanded to form a capacious coronal cup, the free margin 

 of which is prolonged into lobes (Stephanoceros and most species of 

 Floscularia), or is without lobes {Apsilus, Floscularia edentata CoUins 

 and pelagica Rousselet). The whole free margin of the corona con- 

 stitutes the boundary of a large mouth aperture. Ciha are absent 

 upon the corona in Apsilus. In Stephanoceros they are arranged 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



in numerous oblique rows upon the surfaces of the coronal lobes. In 

 Floscularia there is in most species a single row of cilia upon the 

 lobes or on both the lobes and the interlobular coronal margin; 

 in a few there are two rows upon the coronal margin (pe- 

 lagica Rousselet, hoodii Hudson, cucuUata Hood, trilobata Collins). 

 All these ciha are preoral; they constitute, therefore, a trochus, and 

 there is no postoral row (cingulum) on the external s\u-face of the body 

 behind the mouth. In fact, no postoral ciliary ring occurs, for the 

 diaphragm of Stephanoceros and Floscularia, which bears a row^ of 

 ciUa, and on that account was homologized by Hudson and Gosse 

 with, the cingulum of other Rotatoria, belongs to the intestinal tract 

 and not to the coronal margin at all. In the young of Apsilus and 

 Floscularia the mouth is ventral instead of terminal, as in the adult, 

 and the anterior region of the ahmentary tract is cihated, these cilia 

 not persisting to the adult stage. The diaphragm separates in 

 Stephanoceros and Floscularia an anterior infundibulum from a poste- 

 rior vestibulum, both without cilia; in Apsilus there is no diaphragm 

 and no distinction of two chambers, and also no ciUation. In two 

 species of Apsilus, in Floscularia and Stephanoceros an oesophageal 

 tube is present. On the vestibulum follows a non-ciliated proven- 

 triculus, the posterior end of which is speciaHzed as the mastax; next, 

 a ciUated stomach; then a non-ciliated posterior intestine, then the 

 short rectum opening into the cloaca. The intestinal ciliation is thus 

 limited to the diaphragm, the stomach and (in some species of Flos- 

 cularia) to the rectum. 



The foot is well developed in all but Apsilus; in this genus it is larger 

 in the young than in the adult, so has probably degenerated. Only in 

 F. chimcera Hudson does the foot terminate in two toes (it is doubtful 

 whether this form belongs in the family) . In aU other forms it termi- 

 nates in a single peduncle (except in Floscularia atrochoides Wier- 

 zejski). The foot is strongty contractile, but not retractile into the 

 trunk. The nephridial system is essentially alike in aU three genera, 

 likewise the nervous system; no ring nerves have been found in the 

 coronal margin, and there is no suboesophageal ganghon. A dorsal 

 and a pair of lateral coronal sense-organs are always present, and an 

 additional pair of lateral ones in Apsilus. The germarium and oviduct 

 are unpaired; the germarium is small and rounded in most species, but 

 much elongated in Apsilus bucinedax (Forbes) and Floscularia ambigua 

 Hudson. Distinct foot glands are absent in the adult; the only glands 

 connected with the alimentary tract are one pair of stomach glands. 

 A gland around the dorsal sense-organ is found in some forms. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The young are free-sudmming, but it is the rule that the adults hve 

 permanently attached within a gelatinous tube. The exceptions 

 are the pelagic species Floscularia pelagica'Rousselet, atrochoidesWier- 

 zejski, libera Zacharias. Since some of these swim carr\'ing a gelati- 

 nous tube, it is probable that they were derived from sedentary forms. 

 All the knowTi species are restricted to fresh water, except two which 

 are eurhyaline. 



The sexes are dimorphic, and the small males represent individuals 

 arrested in their development (they have considerable resemblance to 

 immature females), and also degenerative in structm-e (shown by the 

 absence of the ahmentary tract). 



The whole structure is bilaterall}^ spnmetrical ; even the unpaired 

 dorsal sense-organ has a pair of nerves, which, as Zelinka has correctly 

 argued elsewhere, points to its original paired condition. The radiality 

 evinced by the arrangement of the coronal lobes is referable to the 

 sedentarj' mode of life. 



Finally, in contradiction to most other Rotatoria, in most species that 

 have coronal cilia, these do not serve to create food cm-rents, but are 

 stiff and more like pseudopodia. 



Literature Cited. 



CuBiTT, C. Floscularia coronetta. Month. Micr. Journ., 2, 1869. 



Idem. Observations on Some Points in the Economy of Stephanoceros. Ibid., 



3, 1870. 

 Idem. On the Homological Position of the Tube-makers. Ihid., 8, 1872. 

 Drxox-XuTTALL, F. R. On the Male of Stephanoceros Eichhornii. Journ. 



Roy. Micr. Soc, 1896. 

 DoBiE, W. M. Description of Two New Species of Floscularia with Remarks. 



Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (2), 4, 1849. 

 Idem. Stephanoceros Eichliornii. Ann. Anat. Physiol., 1, 1854. 

 DuJAEDiN. Histoire naturelle des Zoophytes. Infusoires. Suites a Buffon, 



1841. 

 Eckstein, K. Die Rotatorien der Umgegend von Giessen. Zeit. wiss. Zool., 



39, 1884. 

 Ehrexberg, C. G. Ueber die Entw-ickelung und Lebensdauer der Infusions- 



thiere, etc. Abh. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 1832. 

 Idem. Dritter Beitrag zur Erkenntniss grosser Organisation in der Richtung des 



kleinsten Raumes. Ibid., 1835. 

 Idem. Die Infiisionsthierchen als vollkommene Organismen. Leipzig, 1838. 

 EiCHHORN, J. C. Beytriige zur Naturgeschichte der kleinsten Wasserthiere. Dan- 

 zig, 1775. 

 Forbes, S. A Remarkable New Rotifer (Cupelopagis bucinedax). Amer. 



Month. Micr. Journ., 3, 1882. 

 ForLKE, S. G. On a New Species of Rotifer, of the Genus Apsilus. Proc. Acad. 



Xat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1884. 

 Gast, R. Beitrage zur Kenntniss von Apsilus vorax (Leidy). Zeit. unss. Zool., 



67, 1900. 

 GoLDFUSS, G. A. Handbuch der Zoologie. Niimberg, 1820. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



GossE, p. H. On the Structure, Functions and Homologies of the Manducatory 



Organs in the Class Rotifera. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, 1855. 

 Idem. The Crown Animalcule (Stephanoceros Eichhornii). Popular Science 



Review, 1, 1862. 

 Idem. Contrilaution to the History of the Rotifera, 2. The Floscules. Ibid., 



1862. 

 Grexacher, H. Einige Beobachtungen iiber Raderthiere. Zeit. iviss. Zool., 



19, 1869. 

 Hood, J. Floscularia hoodi. Intern. Journ. Micr., (3), 5, 1895. 

 Hudsox and GossE. The Rotifera; or, Wheel- Animalcules. London, 1886-1889. 

 Jennings, H. S. A List of the Rotatoria of the Great Lakes and of some of the 



Inland Lakes of Michigan. Bull. Mich. Fish Comm., No. 3, 189-4. 

 Idem. Report on the Rotatoria. Ibid., No. 6, 1896. 

 Idem. Rotatoria of the United States. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1900. 

 Leidy, J. Dictyophora vorax. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1857. 

 Idem. Rotifera without Rotatory Organs. Ibid., 1882. 

 Idem. Dictyophora as Apsilus vorax. Ibid., 1884. 

 Leydig, F. Ueber den Bau und die systematische Stellung der Raderthiere. 



Zeit. wiss. Zool., 6, 1854. 

 Lord, J. E. A New Rotifer (Stephanoceros longispinatus?). The Naturalists' 



World, 2, 1885. 

 Lund, C. W. Danmarks Rotifera. Kobenhavn, 1899. 



Mecznikow, E. Apsilus lentiformis, ein Raderthier. Zeit. wiss. Zool., 16, 1866. 

 Montgomery, T. H. On Floscularia Conklin nov. spec, etc. Biolog. Btdl., 1903. 

 MoxoN, W. Notes on Some Points in the Anatomj' of Rotatoria. Trans. Lin- 



nean Soc. London, 24, 1864. 

 McLLER, 0. F. Naturforscher. Halle, 1776. 

 Oken, L. v. Lehrbuch der Naturgeschichte. 1815. 

 Peirce, C. N. Remarks on Stepahnoceros Eichhornii. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Philadelphia, 1875. 

 Perty. Zur Kenntniss der kleinsfen Lebensformen. Bern, 1852. 

 Pritchard, a. .4 History of Infusoria, London, 1861. 



Rosseter, T. B. Tube of Stephanoceros Eichhornii. Science Gossip, 1881. 

 Idem. Observations on the Life-History of Stephanoceros Eichhornii. Journ. 



Roy. Micr. Soc, 4, 1884. 

 Stokes, A. C. Notes on the Genus Apsilus and other American Rotifera. Journ. 



Roy. Micr. Soc, 1896. 

 Vallentin, R. Some Remarks on the Anatomy of Stephanoceros Eichhornii. 



Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (6), 5, 1890. 

 Weber, E. F. Notes sur quelques Rotateurs des environs de Geneve. Arch. 



Biol. 8, 1888. 

 Weisse, J. F. Verzeichnis von 155 in St. Petersburg beobachteten Infusorien- 



arten nebst Bemerkungen iiber dieselben. Bull, math.-phys. Acad. St. Pet- 

 ersburg, 3, 1845. 

 Western, G. Notes on Rotifers, with description of 4 new species, and of the 



Male of Stephanoceros eichhornii. Journ. Quekett Micr. Club, 5, 1893. 



Explanation of Plates XVIII, XIX, XX, XXI. 



The figures, with very few exceptions, are freehand drawings, each con- 

 structed from a considerable number of sketches or various details of structure. 

 The degree of magnification is not uniform. These figures were made with the 

 pen and were not reduced in size, which wiU account for occasional irregularities 

 in the lines. The following is the significance of the abbreviations employed: 



A.Sens.O., antero-lateral sense organ. ; Cer., cerebral ganglion. 

 B.C., body cavity. Cir., cirrhus (penis). 



c.c.l, C.C.2., contractor corona? primus CI., cloaca, 

 and secundus. Cl.Ap., cloacal aperture. 




394 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Con.V., contractile vacuole. 



C.T., compressor trunci. 



Cut., cuticula. 



D.A., dorsal coronal arm or lobe. 



d.c, deflexor coronse. 



D.GL, dorsal gland. 



Dia., diaphragm. 



D.M., dorsal longitudinal visceral mus- 

 cle. 



D.Sens.O., dorsal sense organ. 



d.tr. I-IV, depressor trunci primus- 

 quartus. 



E., eye. 



F., foot. 



F.GL, foot gland. 



Fl.C, nephridial flame ceU. 



Ful., fulcrum inci. 



Hj-p., hjTDodermis. 



Inf., infundibulum (coronal cup). 



L.A., lateral coronal arm or lobe. 



I.e., levator coronse. 



L.-C.M., longitudino-circular muscle. 



L.M., lateral visceral longitudinal mus- 

 cle. 



L.Sens.O., lateral sense organ. 



M., mouth aperture. 



Man., manubrium mallei. 



Mast., mastax. 



Muse, muscles. 



Musc.C, muscle cell body. 



N., nucleus. 



N.C., nerve cell. 



N.com., nerve fiber commissure. 



Neph., nepliridial canal. 



Neph.C, nephridial cell. 



Neph.com., nephridial commissure. 



N.f., nerve fiber. 



O., 0^alm. 



Oes., oesophagus 



Oes.T., cesophageal tube. 



Ov., germariima. 



Ovd., oviduct. 



Ovg., ovogonium. 



Fed., peduncle of foot. 



P. Int., posterior intestine. 



Prov., proventriculus. 



R.c. I-VI, retractor coronse primus- 



sextus. 

 Ram., ramus inci. 

 Rec, rectum. 

 R.M., retractor mastacis. 

 Sph.An., sphincter ani. 

 Sph.C. I-^'III, sphincter coronse prim- 



us-octa\Tis. 

 Sph.tr. I-VI, sphincter trunci primus- 

 sextus. 



Sp.S., sperm sac. 

 Stom., stomach. 

 Stom.GL, stomach gland. 

 Test., testis. 

 Tub., gelatinous tube. 

 Un., uncus mallei. 

 v. A., ventral coronal arm or lobe. 

 Vac, vacuole. 

 V.D.. vas deferens. 

 Vest., vestibulum. 

 V.M., ventral visceral longitudinal 



muscle. 

 X., cuticular ridge. 

 Yk.X., necleus of j-olk cell. 



Plate XVIII. — All the figures refer to Apsilus vorax. 



Fig. 1. — Dorsal view; this and figs. 2-4 represent fuUy expanded individuals. 

 Figs. 2, 3. — Lateral (from the right side) and ventral views respectively, 



the details of the alimentary tract not shown. 

 Fig. 4. — Newly hatched immature individual, about one-third the size of the 



adult, the musculature and cuticula not sIio^ti. 

 Fig. 5. — Left half of the mastax viewed from above. 

 Fig. 6. — Cerebral ganglion and its nerves, sense-organs, anterior portion of 



the nephridia, and contiguous muscles. 

 Figs. 7, 8. — Two consecutive transverse sections of a cerebral ganglion, 



camera drawing. 



Plate XIX, Figs. 9-18. — Stephanoceros fimbriatus. 



Fig. 9. — Trunk seen from the left side, only the proximal portions of the coro- 

 nal arms and the foot shown, details of the mastax not drawn. In 

 this as in figs. 10 and 11 only the larger muscles are delineated, and 

 those only in part. 



Fig. 10. — Dorsal view of trunk. 



Fig. 11. — Oblique ventral view of anterior trunk region with a portion of the 

 coronal lobes. 



Figs. 12, 13. — The distal ends of two coronal arms, the first on dorsal and the 

 second on lateral view. 



Fig. 14. — Distal end of foot with its peduncle. 



Fig. 15. — A nephridial flame cell. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Fig. 16. — An entire individual enclosed within its gelatinous tube, ventral 



view, the larger longitudinal muscles shown. 

 Fig. 17. — Germarium, from a stained preparation. 

 Fig. IS. — Mastax, postero-dorsal view. 



Figs. 19-21, Floscularia ambigua. 



Fig. 19. — Germarium seen from left side of the body. 



Fig. 20. — Dorsal view of anterior body region, musculature and corona 



cilia not shown. 

 Fig. 21. — Immature individual pressed from the egg, seen from the right 



side; the musculature and mastax not drawn. 



Plate XX, Figs. 22-24. — Floscularia coronetta. 



Figs. 22, 23. — Lateral (from the left side) and dorsal views of anterior portion 

 of the body; the cilia of the coronal lobes not drawTi, and only a 

 portion of the musculature. 



Fig. 24. — Posterior end of foot with its peduncle. 



Figs. 25, 26. — Floscularia conklini. 



Fig. 25. — Anterior portion of body seen from the left side, mastax not drawii, 



and only a portion of the musculature. 

 Fig. 26. — The entire animal with its gelatinous tube, from the right side. 



Figs. 27-35, Floscularia campanulata. 



Fig. 27. — Oblique ventral view of anterior trunlc region, the nephridia not 

 shown. 



Fig. 28. — ^Mew from the left side; in this figure as in the preceding the coro- 

 nal cilia are not shown. 



Fig. 29. — Germarium from a stained preparation, camera drawing. 



Fig. 30. — Germarium, oviduct and posterior portions of alimentary tract 

 and nephridia of an immature individual. 



Fig. 31. — Antero-ventral view of tlie corona. 



Fig. 32. — Somewhat oblique lateral view of the cerebral ganglion and its 

 nerves. 



Fig. 33. — A spermatozoon from body cavity of a female. 



Figs. 34, 35. — Esophageal tube in two positions of movement. 



Plate XXI. — All the figures refer to Floscularia cam-panulata. 



Fig. 36. — A male from a tube of a female which contained 8 ova. This 

 mature male measured not more than the length of the dorsal coronal 

 lobe of the female. Viewed from the right side, the musculature and 

 cuticula not dra^\'n, from life. 



Fig. 37. — An entire individual within its gelatinous tube. 



Fig. 38. — Foot of an immature female, only about one-quarter the adult 

 size, but attached. 



Fig. 39. — Mastax, dorsal view, muscles not drawn. 



Fig. 40. — Posterior end of foot and its peduncle of an adult individual. 



Fig. 41. — Nepliridium of the riglit side of the laody. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



HISTORY OF THE CARIBBEAN ISLANDS FROM A PETROGRAPHIC POINT OF 



VIEW (Abstract). 



by persifor frazer, d.es-sc. 



Bibliography.^ 



Our knowledge of the geological history of the Antilles is still very 

 imperfect. Among the titles constituting the bibliography of this 

 subject are : 



Topography and Geology of Santo Domingo. By William M. Gabb. Trans. 



Am. Phil. Soc, XV, n. s. (1871). 

 Observations and a Physico-Geological Description of the Regions of Habana and 



Guanabacoa. Salterain, Madrid, 1880. 

 A Pamphlet and Geological Map of Cuba, by Don Manuel Fernandez de Castro, 



based on work commenced in 1869. Madrid, 1881. 

 On the Mountains of Eastern Cuba. W. O. Crosby, 1882. 

 Archean Character of Rocks of the Nucleal Ranges of tlie Antilles. Persifor 



Frazer. Bath Meeting B. A. A, S., 1888. 

 Coleccion de apuntes sobre la riqueza miner a de la provincia de Santiago de Cuba. 



Published by Juan E. Ravelo. Sant. de Cuba, 1893. 

 Reconstruction of the Antillean Continent. J. W. Spencer. Bidl. G. S. A., 



August 14, 1894. 

 Geographical Evolution of Cuba. Id. December 27, 1894. 

 Zur Geologie von San Domingo. W. Bergt. Abhandlung der naturw. Gesell. 



"Isis" in Dresden, 1897. 

 Cuba and Porto Rico, with the Other Islands of the West Indies. Robert T. Hill. 



The Century Co., New York, 1898. 

 (This last work is a compendium of information on the subject and contains an 

 extensive bibliograpliy of tlie less scientific and more descriptive treatises on the 

 West Indies.) 



At the Bath meeting of the British Association for the Advance- 

 ment of Science in 1888 I presented numerous rock specimens and 

 thin sections cut from them, illustrating a region of about forty miles 

 around Santiago de Cuba. The rocks were partly eruptives and partly 

 classic, but almost all exhibited profound alteration. The thin sec- 

 tions from these eruptives were examined with me by Dr. Hensoldt, 

 Mr. Kunz and Mr. La Croix in this country, and later by Mr. Teall, 

 Mr. Rudler, the Abbe Renard, Prof. Judd and the lamented Prof. 

 George H. WilHams in London ; all of whom were practically agreed 

 as to the main constituents. 



The specimens were divided into : 



A. Those from the hills containing the West mine of the Jurugua 



^ A more detailed statement of the observations, in the field and witli the mi- 

 croscope, on which these conclusions are based will be published later. — P. F. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3^7 



Iron Co., near Firmeza. (1) Diorites, some of which contained much 

 altered hornblende and viridite (chlorite), the thin slides filled with 

 microlites and the rocks traversed by epidote veins. (2) Dolerites, 

 diabase (gabbros), with chloritic ground mass, magnetite, rods of feld- 

 spar and some olivine. 



B. From the hills southeast of that in which the "East mine" was 

 located and about fifteen miles northeast of Santiago de Cuba. (1) 

 Garnet rocks with iron ore (sp. gravity 3.962). (2) Fibrous actino- 

 lite, and brown iron oxides partially altered to an epidotic mass. (3) 

 Iron ores (some showing cross lines like the Widmanstatten figures in 

 meteoric iron). 



C. From the Sietes Altares, about thirty-five miles east of Santiago 

 de Cuba. Orthofelsite porphyry (rhyolites), like those erroneously 

 referred to by the late Prof. H. D. Rogers as "jasper," and later 

 recognized by the late Dr. T. Sterry Hunt as a mixture to which he 

 gave the general name " orthophyre " ; also hke the Arvonian tuffs of 

 Hicks, near St. David's Head, Pembrokeshire, Wales. 



D. The specimens from the region of the La Plata mines were quartz- 

 ites containing hornblende, iron ores and, among the incidental min- 

 erals, a claret-red garnet. 



In the area described were found upon or associated with the erup- 

 tives sandstones, conglomerates and crystalline limestones, laminated 

 iron ores with masses of pyrites not yet converted into the latter. 

 The alteration of the areas of contact in these rocks by the more recent 

 diorite dykes which cut them was evident. 



From the character and relations of these rocks I deduced a physical 

 continuity between the Archean of the mainland of the North American 

 continent and the skeleton of the Cuban orographic system. 



From the zoological and geological researches of Alexander Agassiz 

 in Caribbean and Mexican waters, and the careful studies by Gabb, 

 Crosby, Spencer and Hill, the probability of very great changes of 

 level in the Antilles since the close of the Cretacic period was estab- 

 lished, and this probability is fortified by several different lines of 

 proof, i.e., the ledges and shelves of the island borders, the wide distri- 

 bution of the white radiolarian limestones, etc., and finally petro- 

 graphic examinations of material from the several islands. 



Prof. Crosby pointed out orographic reasons for assuming a former 

 " bridge " {i.e., causeway) between the Greater and Lesser Antilles. As 

 he says, the mountains of "the northern arm of the island of San Do- 

 mingo point toward Cape Maysi on Cuba," and the northern range in 

 Cuba "regains the western trend and points directly toward Yucatan." 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laV, 



He also alludes in his paper of December 13, 1882, to the "axis of old 

 eruptive rocks " of which, so far as he has been able to learn, " each mem- 

 ber of the group consists." He does not give his authority for this 

 statement nor say to what age he ascribes these eruptives; but if he 

 contemplated the possibility of its being pre-Cambrian he anticipated 

 by six years two of the strongest grounds for my beUef in the physical 

 continuity of the Great and Little Antilles, and the present exposure 

 of parts of the nucleus which are of great age and possibly have never 

 been covered by sedimentary rocks. 



His observation that this nucleus is flanked on either side b}^ scliists 

 and slates has been fully confirmed, and I have been tempted to class 

 these with the mica schists of the Appalachians, and the feldspar por- 

 phyr}^ (rhyohtes) with the Arvonian tuffs of south Wales. 



Dr. W. Bergt strongly supports the Archean age of the nucleal 

 axis of San Domingo if not of all the Caribbean Islands in the follow- 

 ing words •} 



"Das archaische Alter welches P. Frazer fiir die Centralketten des 

 siidostlichen Cuba feststellen konnte, und das er fiir ganz Jamaika, 

 fiir San Domingo, Puerto Rico, und die "Windwardinseln vermuthete, 

 kann numnehr bestimmter fiir San Domingo angenommen werden." 



It may be, as Mr. Hill suggests, that no "Paleozoic nucleal rocks" 

 have been estabhshed -^ith certainty in "Cuba and Santo Domingo" 

 or any other of the border lands of the "American ^Mediterranean,"^ 

 although de Castro imagined he had discovered such near Cienfuegos, 

 3^et this fact would not preclude the possibihty that part of these 

 nucleal rocks are pre-Cambrian. 



To siunmarize the observations: 



(1) There is a complex of diorite, felsite and rhyolite forming the 

 axes of the mountain ranges of eastern Cuba. 



(2) With these are associated schists w^hich in places assume a 

 gneissoid character. 



(3) The diorite and the clastic rocks resting on it are traversed by 

 numerous veins of later eruptives, on the contact planes of which latter 

 many phenomena of alteration may be observed. 



(4) No such indications of alteration are apparent at the contacts 

 with the older diorite mass, but, on the contrary, the sedimentary^ rocks 

 seem to have been deposited upon it without disturbance. 



"^ "Zur Geologic von San Domingo." Alh. der naturw. Gesel. "Isis" in Dresden, 

 1897, Heft II, p. 64. 

 " Cuba and Porto Rico, p. 384. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



(5) All the rocks earlier than the intrusive veins, and even parts of 

 these latter, show extensive alteration and probable transformation. 



One purpose of this abstract is to recall the fact that we have proofs 

 of phj^sical connection with the Western Continent of these outlying 

 islands, not only from the physiographic features ; drowned valleys ; sub- 

 merged plateaus; trend of conformation through the major axes of the 

 present detached islands ; palaeontological analogy "with South American 

 forms of hfe; etc., but, in addition to all these, the close petrographical 

 relationship of the crystallized and cr^^stalUne rocks and their con- 

 geners with those of the mainland. 



Note. 



A paper has just been received from Dr. Callaway (December 27, 

 1902) on the Plutonic complex of Central Anglesey,^ in which some very 

 curious resemblances appear between the central complexes of Anglesey 

 and Cuba, dissimilar as are the more recent mantles with which in the 

 two cases these nuclei are clothed. 



In 1880 Dr. Callaway, in entire accord with Dr. Hicks and many of 

 the non-official geologists of Great Britain as well as of our compatriot, 

 Dr. T. Sterry Hunt, had estabhshed the pre-CamlDrian age of these 

 Anglesey rocks. In 1888 the Rev. J. F. Blake had confirmed a note 

 previously made by Dr. Callaway of the production of scliistosity in 

 diorite by pressure. In the eastern district of Anglesey Dr. Callaway 

 considers felsite and diorite the materials out of which the gneiss was 

 made: "but with them is associated the well-known binary granite 

 (haplite) originall}^ called Dimetian by the late Dr. Hicks. A fourth 

 variety .... is the quartz-felsite claimed by that geologist as 

 Arvonian. It forms a part of the same magma as the granite, and must 

 be carefully distinguished from quartzless felsite, into which it is some- 

 times intruded in dykes and veins." 



After dividing the diorite and its modifications into hornblende-gneiss, 

 decomposed diorite and chlorite-gneiss, micaceo-chloritic gneiss, and 

 kersantite and biotite-gneiss, he says of the felsite that he "has never 

 succeeded in obtaining a specimen in its original state," and in analysis 

 it is almost indistinguishable from Vom Bath's rhyoHte of the Euga- 

 nean Hills, and from a rhyohtic obsidian from jNIedicine Lake. With 

 the above are associated crystalline limestones, of which the origin, 

 according to Dr. Callaway, is chemical segregation and not sedimenta- 

 tion. 



* Quart. Joum. Geol. Soc, Vol. Iviii, 1902, 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The granite (haplite) and quartz-felsite, according to him, are in- 

 truded into tlie diorite and felsite after the production of schistosity. 



Seams of quartz and feldspar (haphte) alternate with seams of biotite 

 and feldspar (modified diorite) when the veins lie in the planes of 

 shearing of the diorite, and the result is a banded gneiss. 



The c|uartz-felsite forms part of the same magma as the granite. 

 Of two thin slides of the gneiss formed by schistose felsite intersected 

 by numerous granite veins, Prof. Bonney "thinks much of the mica 

 secondary." 



The paper concludes thus: " The foUo^nng would seem to have been 

 the sequence of events in the central complex. Diorite was first con- 

 sohdated. It was then penetrated by masses and veins of felsite, and 

 blocks of it were isolated from the main mass (or masses) and floated 

 off into the felsite. The consolidation of the felsite was the next 

 stage. Earth-pressures then affected both diorite and felsite, producing 

 schistosity. A granite magma, usually haplite, sometimes quartz- 

 felsite, then invaded the area, penetrating the diorite and the felsite 

 in large masses, and sending into them countless veins, which commonly 

 found their way along planes of schistosity, giving rise to banded 

 gneisses." 



Summary of Results. 



"(1) The central complex of Anglesey was originally composed of 

 diorite, felsite and granite. 



(2) The diorite has been modified into an elUptical dome of dark 

 gneiss, namely, into simple gneisses by pressure, and into complex 

 gneisses by pressure plus granitic intrusion. 



(3) The intrusion of the granite into the diorite has often produced 

 fusion at the contact, sometimes with the generation of biotite in the 

 diorite. 



(4) The diorite and dark gneiss form an insular mass surrounded by 

 granite. 



(5) The felsite has been modified into quartzose and micaceous 

 schists and gneisses by pressure, and into banded gneisses by the 

 addition of granitic intrusions. 



(6) The quartz-felsites of the area are a part of the granitic magma. 



(7) Both diorite and felsite were modified into gneisses and schists 

 prior to the intrusion of the granite and quartz-felsite, which are not 

 foliated.'! 




1903.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



POLYCH^TA FROM THE COASTAL SLOPE OF JAPAN AND FROM KAMCHATKA 



AND BERING SEA. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Hitherto our knowledge of Japanese Polychaeta has been hmited to 

 collections made in the littoral zone at several points along the south- 

 eastern coast between Yokohama and Nagasaki and ably described 

 in three papers by v. Marenzeller, a few species from the Japan Sea 

 described by Grube and Mcintosh, and to the results of about half a 

 dozen dredge and trawl hauls made by the "Challenger" at points off 

 Japan, which have been recorded by Mcintosh. 



At the close of an extended cruise in the South Pacific Ocean, the 

 United States Fish Commission steamer "Albatross" spent the month 

 of May and part of June, 1900, in dredging and trawling along the con- 

 tinental slope of Japan. During this cruise the vessel w^as in com- 

 mand of Captain J. F. Moser, U. S. N., with Dr. H. F. Moore as natur- 

 aHst, to whom, and to Dr. H. M. Smith, of the Fish Commission, I 

 owe the pleasure of studying the rich and interesting collection of 

 Polychseta taken.* 



During May a line of about seventy dredging stations was run along 

 the coast of Nippon or Hanshu from Yokohama westward about 200 

 miles, through Sagami and Suruga Bays and the Totomi Sea. These 

 stations were mostly along the steep slope on the inner border of the 

 Black Current, and about or within the 100-fathom line, though the 

 trawl was sometimes sent down to much greater depths. In early 

 June, ten additional stations w^ere estabhshed along the coast of north- 

 ern Nippon, beginning at the lower end of Sendai Bay and extending 

 for about 120 miles northward, entirely within the 100-fathom line. 

 Later in June several dredgings were made in the shallow waters and 

 muddy bottoms off Kamchatka, and others north of the Aleutian 

 Islands in the southern portion of Bering Sea. The details of loca- 

 tion, depth, character of bottom, etc., will be found in a list of dredg- 

 ing records of the "Albatross" compiled by Mr. C. H. Townsend, and 

 published in the Report of the U. S. Fish Commission for 1900. In 

 this paper it has been thought necessary to give only the depth and 



^ Acknowledgment is due to Hon. George M. Bowers, Commissioner of Fish- 

 eries, for permission to publish the results in this form. 



26 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



general locality, together ■v\dtli a list of the station numbers at which 

 each species was taken. 



All of the species contained in the collection have been determined 

 and, with the exception of the famihes Sabellidce and Serpulidce and 

 several species of other families which have been reserved for fm'ther 

 study and comparison with material not now available, are recorded 

 in the following list. A large number of species, either new or liitherto 

 unreported from that region, are added to the Japanese fauna. One 

 of the surprises of this study has been the very small number of ]\Iaren- 

 zeller's species which were tajven by the "Albatross." Of the species 

 pre\aously known most of them belong to the circumboreal fauna, 

 several were dredged by the ''Challenger" at points off Japan, and the 

 others have been recorded from various more or less distant parts of 

 the world. As Marenzeller has in preparation an account of the geo- 

 graphical relations of the Japanese Polychseta, nothing more need be 

 said on this subject. The general results remind one of those at- 

 tained by Verrill along the Gulf Stream slope of North America. 



POLYNOID^. 

 Harmothoe imbricata (Linn.) Mgrn. 



The setse of the two small specimens taken are colorless and the neuro- 

 podials slender. 



Totomi Sea, 3,715, 65 fms.; Totomi Sea, 3,725, 12-13 fms. 

 Lsenilla subfumida (Grube). 



This is one of the very few Philippine species wliich have been 

 found on the coast of Japan, from wliich it has not been hitherto 

 recorded. 



Sagami Bay, 3,702, 31-41 fms. 

 Polynoa semierma sp. nov. (PI. XXIII, figs. 2, 3.) 



Form long and slender, composed of 64 somites and measuring 42 

 mm. in length and 3 mm. in breadth, exclusive of parapodia. 



Unfortunately the prostomium is in a very bad state of preservation 

 and much altered, with aU of the appendages, excepting one palpus, lost 

 and only their position indicated by scars. The general shape of the 

 prostomium is much as in Harmothoe, the anterior peaks being well- 

 marked, pointed and widely separated. The left palpus has a length 

 of four times the width of the prostomium and is slender and regularly 

 tapering. Two pairs of black, very small, circular eyes can be distin- 

 guished, one lateral, about the middle, the other dorsal, near the jdos- 

 terior margin of the head. The protruded proboscis bears the usual 

 jaws, but the papillae have been destroyed. It has a length of 3.5 mm. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



The parapodia are long and slender and especially so toward the 

 caudal extremity. Neuropodium conical, divided terminally into pre- 

 and post-setal lobes, both prolonged dorsally, and the former the larger; 

 ventral surface studded with large spherical papillae on short stalks. 

 Notopodium a small, slender, freel}- projecting process supported by 

 a distinct aciculum. Dorsal cirri wdth small ceratophores, and long, 

 slender, regularly tapered styles which reach considerably beyond 

 the setse tips anteriorly, but posteriorly, owdng to shortening of the 

 cirri and lengthening of the feet, fall short of the setae tips. Ventral 

 cirri short, less than i dorsal, thick basally and slender terminally; pos- 

 teriorly they undergo the same relative change of position as the dorsal, 

 and for the same reason. 



Only about i of the total number of elytra are in situ and are very 

 easily detached, but the elytrophores indicate 25 pairs placed on the 

 following somites: II, IV, Y, then on alternate somites to XXIII, then 

 on XXVI, XXIX, XXXII and XXXIV, and after that on every third 

 somite to LXI. They are small, leaving a large portion of the back 

 exposed, delicate and usually much distorted, nearly circular, with 

 central attachment and quite without papillae or hairs of any kind; 

 the medial half is reddish-brown, the lateral unpigmented. 



Notopodial setae are totally wanting, but there is a relatively stout 

 tapering aciculum. The neuropodial setae are disposed in about 9 

 close rows; all are nearly colorless and rather slender. Those of the 

 dorsalmost row or two form a distinct group which project beyond the 

 others, and probably serve somewhat the purpose of the notopodial 

 setae of other species ; their shafts are scarcely more than ^ the diameter 

 of the other neuropodials and the ends are much prolonged and pro- 

 vided with close transverse rows of fine hairs ciuite to the simple tips. 

 The others have the usual form, the more dorsal ones with simple tips 

 and as many as 14 transverse combs, the middle and ventral ones with 

 a more or less prominent accessory tooth at the tip and shorter 

 enlarged ends with as few as 8 combs on the most ventral setae. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms. 

 Scalesetosus formosus sp. nov. (PI. XXIII, figs. 4, 5, 6.) 



This species is referred to Mcintosh's genus on account of the form 

 of the head and neuropodial setae, the latter being very characteristic ; 

 in many other respects it departs widely from the generic type. The 

 single example on which the description is based is complete, but 

 broken into three pieces, and with the scales detached. At the poste- 

 rior end is a small regenerating piece, but the form of that region, and 

 especially the structure of the parapodia, indicates that it is of prac- 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



tically the normal length. The form is slender and tapers very 

 sUghtly to the caudal end. The total length is 24 mm., the maxi- 

 mum wddth of the body 2 mm., and between the tips of the parapodia 

 4.5 mm. 



Prostomium about as broad (across the ocular lobes) as long, marked 

 for its entire length by a median dorsal groove which -^-idens anteriorly 

 to a broad and deep cleft separating the rounded frontal lobes or peaks; 

 the narrowest part of the prostomium is at the posterior border, ante- 

 rior to wliich the lateral borders diverge, then swell out abruptly at 

 about the middle as prominent rounded lobes which bear the anterior 

 pair of eyes. Ceratophores of tentacles nearly spherical, possibly the 

 result of contraction; the median crowded between the cephaHc peaks 

 into the frontal cleft; the lateral partly beneath the median and well 

 below the peaks; style of median antenna lost; the lateral very short 

 and thick, scarcely longer than its ceratophore, and its diameter equal 

 to ^ its length, ovate pyriform and Httle pointed. Palpi slender, 

 tapered regularly to tip, about 2f times length of prostomium. Eyes 

 2 pairs, both very large, especially the anterior, but hghtly pigmented, 

 the anterior pair situated on the ocular lobes, the posterior shghtly 

 caudad and mesiad, and nearly or actually in contact with the anterior. 



Tentacular cirri, or at least the ventral, which alone remain, about 

 ^ as long as palpi, to wliich they have a similar form, with the distal 

 half more slender. There are 57 somites in addition to those in regen- 

 eration, and all but the peristomium and pygidium are setigerous. 

 Ventral surface smooth, sole-hke, ■^\'ith rounded margins separated from 

 the bases of the parapodia by a groove on each side. No visible 

 nephridiopores or papillse. Elytrophores prominent, nearly cylindri- 

 cal or slightly tapering ; the median space of the back scarcely exceed- 

 ing in width their diameter. 



Parapodia large and prominent, similar throughout the series, except 

 that the dorso-ventral diameter decreases toward the posterior end. 

 Neuropodimn much larger than notopodium, broad, flat, leaf-hke, its 

 lateral margin broadly rounded, the ventral convex, and dorsal con- 

 cave, so that as a whole it appears to have a slight curvature dorsad; 

 at the end it is split into two vertical plates, both, especially the pos- 

 terior one, being very thin and embracing the bases of the setse between 

 them for a considerable distance. Xotopodimn a rounded lobe arising 

 from the anterior side of the dorsum of the neuropodimn about its 

 middle. Like the elytrophores, the dorsal cirrophores are remarkably 

 large; although arising much nearer the base of the parapodia they 

 reach as far laterad as, and at the same time much dorsad to, the noto- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



poclia ; styles formed like the palpi but more slender, reaching scarcely 

 beyond the tip of the neuropodia. Ventral cirri with short globular 

 cirrophores placed about opposite to the notopodia; styles tliickeiled 

 basally but with filiform distal halves, and their tips just reaching the 

 ventralmost neuropodial setse. First ventral cirrus closely approach- 

 ing the tentacular cirri in length. 



Elytra 29 pairs, on II, IV. Y. then on alternating somites to XXI, 

 then on XXII, XXIV, XXVII, XXX. XXXI and again on alternating 

 somites to LVII; all are in symmetrical pairs, and are easily detached, 

 which is the condition of most of them. The first is nearly circular, 

 the last somewhat triangular, the others broadly ovate wdth a sUght 

 excentric postero-lateral attachment. They are thin, smooth, color- 

 less and translucent; Tvath a very distinct nerve ramifying from the 

 rear of attachment in dendritic fashion throughout the scale; there are 

 no cilia nor papillae, but numerous pellucid dots are scattered over the 

 surface, in the center of each of which a small sense-organ appears. 



Notopodial setse few and irregularly arranged; they are short, reach- 

 ing only half-way from their points of origin to the end of the neuro- 

 podium, slender, rather strongly curved, pointed and with transverse 

 rows of excessively fine teeth along the convex border and half way or 

 more aroimd the seta. Neuropodial setae arranged in a single vertical 

 series which spreads in a broad fan-shaped figure, slightly separated 

 into dorsal and ventral halves, slender and very long, probably quite 

 equaUing the parapodium when fully protruded, somewhat enlarged and 

 bent below the slender, tapering, very finely serrulate, slightly hooked 

 and imdivided end ; at the region of the thickening is a half ring of long, 

 fine, comb-like teeth supported on a shght shoidder. which is placed on 

 the ventral side of the setae in the dorsal half of the bundle and the dorsal 

 side of those in the ventral half. The most ventral setae have shorter, 

 stouter and more strongly hooked tips. Both notopodial and neuropo- 

 dial setae are colorless and beautifully transparent. The setae of the 

 first setigerous foot differs in no appreciable respect from the others. 



Only the type known from Sta. 3,703, Sagami Bay, 31 fms. 



Lepidonotus chitoniforinis sp. nov. (Pi. XXIII. figs. 10. 11.) 



Form short and broad, with a regular elliptical outline, depressed; 

 the greatest ^\idth, whether measured between the tips of the setse or 

 the margins of the body, at the middle. The type measures 37 mm, 

 long, 16 mm. wide, and 6 mm. deep. 



Prostomium roughly square, the anterior and lateral margins 

 slightly convex, the posterior concave; a pair of prominent posterior 

 lateral ocular lobes, and the production of the anterior face into the 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE acade:\iy OF [June, 



lateral tentacular ceratophores modify this form. Eyes 2 pairs; the 

 anterior large and partly on the base of the posterior lateral lobes, as 

 a consequence of which they face both forward and outward : the pos- 

 terior are about ^ the diameter of the anterior and are situated nearly on 

 the dorsal surface close to, but slightly mesiad and caudad of, the 

 ocular lobes. 



Ceratophore of median tentacle about f as long as prostomium, 

 stout and distally swollen; style 4 times length of prostomiimi. slender, 

 shghtly tapering, -udth an abrupt egg-shaped subterminal enlargement 

 ha\dng the large end distad, and followed by a terminal filament of 

 equal or slightly greater length. Lateral tentacles similar in form to 

 the median but only about f as long, and the ceratophore only ^ as 

 long as that of the former. The colors of the tentacles are well pre- 

 served and striking in their contrast w^th the colorless head ; the cer- 

 atophores are ringed wath yellowish-brown, the basal half of the stj'le 

 strongly tinged with brown, the proximal half of the subterminal en- 

 largement deep brown, and the rest pure white. Palpi about equal- 

 ling median tentacle, rather stout, but their bases not enlarged nor 

 extending laterally beyond prostomium, gently tapering, abruptly 

 sharp pointed, but without terminal filament, densely ciliated, basal 

 half pale brown. 



Peristomial parapodium long, slender, reaching to the level of the 

 tip of the tentacular ceratophore. Tentacular cirri similar in form and 

 color to the tentacles but ■oith somewhat longer terminal filaments, 

 the dorsal equalhng the median tentacle, the ventral somewhat shorter. 



There are 26 somites, of which 25 bear setae and 12 elytra. The ne- 

 phridial tubercles occupy the usual position and point strongly laterad 

 and slightly ventrad and caudad ; the last pair, on XXVI, are in con- 

 tact mesially and all except the first, on VI, are prominent. 



Prominent dorsal papillae occur on all the somites from II to XX in- 

 clusive, being median on II and on XA' to XX. and in double parame- 

 dian series on III to XIV inclusive. The first one is a low. flat, nearly 

 quadrate nuchal tubercle which somewhat overlaps the prostomium 

 from behind; from III to XI^' each somite bears a larger anterior and 

 a smaller posterior pair; on III those of each pair are close together 

 and united by slight transverse ridges; the others are well separated, 

 the median interspace increasing in width with the segments ; somites 

 XV to XIX have each a single larger anterior and a smaller posterior 

 papilla, and XX the large one alone. 



The elytrophores are large and shaped like the body of an oyster or 

 even more like the human external ear viewed from the cephahc side. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



On the cirri-bearing somites are smaller, and structurally somewhat 

 simpler, but essentially similar structures, through which transverse 

 muscles pass into the parapodia and^lorsal cirri. As will be indicated 

 below, they bear branchial filaments similarly to the ely trophores, with 

 which they are obviously homologous. 



Branchial filaments occur on every somite from III to XXIV inclu- 

 sive, except XXIII, the last somite bearing elytra, and minute rudi- 

 ments on the anterior side even of XXV and XXVI. They appear 

 to be mere hollow integument al sacs generally of simple finger-like form. 

 On elytra-bearing somites they are disposed as follows : One arises from 

 the antero-external and one from the postero-external margin of the 

 elytrophore. The former is present on every elytrophore except 

 the first and last, is un branched but bends sharply laterad at a 

 riglit angle. The latter is longer, and on typical somites divides 

 into a short medial and a long lateral branch diverging at right 

 angles from the short stem ; it is altogether absent on the first and the 

 medial branch is wanting on the 11th and a few of the anterior 

 elytrophores. On the parapodium are 2 dorsal, 5 or 6 anterior and 

 4 or 5 posterior filaments (in addition to 1 or 2 rudimentary ones on 

 the base of the elytrophores), the most ectal one in each case being 

 bifid. Anterior to the 5th and posterior to the 11th elytra-bearing 

 somite this arrangement is simplified by reduction in the number of 

 filaments. Essentially the same arrangement obtains on the cirri- 

 bearing somites, but the filaments are more numerous, larger and 

 sometimes even trifid. The elytrophore filaments are represented 

 anteriorly by 2 simple ones, and posteriorly by 3. of which the middle 

 one is bifid. There are usually 5 dorsal parapodial filaments, of which 

 one at the base of the cirrus, like the most external on the anterior 

 and posterior faces of the parapodia, is usually trifid. 



The parapodia are stout, with the neuropodium of a somewhat com- 

 pressed, obliquely truncated conical form and the notopodium a rather 

 prominent short tubercle on the anterior dorsal face near the base of 

 the parapodium. The ventral surface of the parapodia, and indeed 

 of the entire body, is covered with a close nap of short, fine processes. 

 Ventral cirri with low tubercle-hke ceratophores borne on the middle 

 of the ventral neuropodial surface ; their styles short, scarcely reaching 

 half-way to the end of the foot, the basal half stout and swollen, the 

 distal tapered to a sharp point, but "udth no proper filament. The 

 dorsal cirri are cpiite long, their filamentous tips at least reaching quite 

 beyond the setse line; they have exactly the shape and color of the 

 tentacular cirri, but on the base of each is a prominent bilobed glandu- 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



lar swelling; the last pair, instead of being longer, is shorter than the 

 others; otherwise both ventral and dorsal cirri present the usual 

 modifications toward the end of the body. 



The very regular outhne of the body,, when seen from above, is due 

 to the dense tufts of dorsal setae which project beyond the margins of 

 the scales and conceal all but the tips of the ventral setse. and from 

 below to the remarkably even arrangement of the neiu-opodia and the 

 ventral setae. The dorsal setae are very numerous and spread chiefly 

 in a horizontal plane, but in such a way as to overlap successively 

 from behind forward. They are very dehcate, capillary, tapering from 

 base to tip and fiu-nished with, fine but distinct opposite or nearly 

 opposite processes of a length .3 to 4 times the diameter of the stem. 

 The ventral setae are arranged in very regular horizontal rows. 7 or 8 

 of which are subacicular and 2 supraacicular; except the dorsalmost 

 and ventralmost rows, which have fewer, each contains 4 setae. 

 They are of a beautiful pale amber color, and transparent, moderately 

 stout, shghtly curved and with the tip smooth and strongly hooked. 

 As in Euphione they are densely bearded toward the end, about ^ or \, 

 according to the position of the seta, of the exposed part being pro\'ided 

 with nmnerous rows of long fine hairs, the terminal ones of which curve 

 backward and envelop the tips. On the first setigerous somite the 

 ventral setse are slender and tapering, with a close beard of fine hairs. 



Twelve pairs of elytra are borne on somites II. lY. V. ^TI, IX, XI, 

 XIII, XV, XVII, XIX, XXI, and XXIII. They are large, strongly 

 imbricate and decussate, and so close-fitting that their boundaries can 

 scarcely be distinguished except at the margins; the attachment to 

 the elytrophores is imusually firm. The first is irregularly circular 

 with a nearly central scar, the last roughly triangular, and the others 

 more or less bean-shaped, the more anterior ones being deeph' emar- 

 ginated and asymmetrical. The 7th is the largest and the size falls 

 off each way to the 1st and 11th. the 12th again becoming larger, 

 Ciha form a strong marginal fringe aroimd more than f of the circum- 

 ference of the scale, only the covered anterior portion being free; they 

 are longest and coarsest on the lateral half of the anterior border, from 

 which large papillae are wanting, and where they are about equal to 

 the longest papillae present on the scale ; a small group of rather large 

 ones occurs also on the medial margin. Small ciha are scattered spar- 

 ingly over the greater part of the exposed surface of the scales and are 

 larger and more numerous on the area external to the scar ridge. The 

 papillae are remarkable for their size and form, and cover the entire upper 

 surface. The anterior medial region and a narrow area along the ante- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 409 



rior lateral border bear onh' small, low, smooth papillse; from these 

 areas they gradually differentiate into several distinct forms. Lower 

 flat papillse ■uith from 4 to 8 peripheral radiating spines occur chiefly 

 on the postero-lateral half; a few especially large examples of this type 

 which lie just behind the scar ridge may bear 1 or 2 apical spines in 

 addition to the peripheral ones. Smooth globular papiHae without 

 spines are occasionally found with the latter. Along the scar ridge 

 are 1 to 3 (of which the mesial one is the largest and most character- 

 istic) very large papillse having the form of an irregular inverted cone, 

 the enlarged end of which is thickly studded ■u'ith rough processes. 

 On the entire area between the lateral end of the scar ridge and the 

 postero-lateral margin are nmnerous large, pale or colorless, erect, 

 clavate papillse with slender pedicels, and studded with pecuhar rough 

 scaly nubs. A single marginal rank of similar but larger, recmnbent 

 and usually brown papillse extends around the entire postero-internal 

 border. The papillse vary much in color; those on the ridge are gen- 

 erally yellowish-browTi, the others var}dng shades of yellowish-gray, 

 gray with yellow spines, brown or nearly black. The darkest are 

 usually found in a small group just mesiad of the scar ridge. The 1st 

 scale bears a central group of the large rough papillse and a complete 

 marginal circle of clavate ones, beneath which is a circle of short 

 ciUa. The last has club-shaped papillse on its lateral margin only, 

 and nearly its internal half is free from ciha. 



Wlien the scales are in place the entire animal presents a striking 

 superficial resemblance to a Chiton. The rough scale ridges con- 

 verge in each pair to form a series of "\''s pointing forward. 



Tj-pe, Sagami Bay, 3,700, 63 fms.; Totomi Sea, 3.733. 49 fms.; 

 also one from an unknown station. 

 Lepidonotus branchiferus sp. nov. (PI. XXIII, figs. 7, 8. 9.) 



Outline short, broad, elliptical, very regular, somewhat depressed. 

 Length 26.5 mm., width to tips of setse 14 mm., to margins of scales 

 11 mm., depth 6 mm. 



Prostomium decidedly wider than long, its lateral margins with 

 prominent preocular protuberances, making this the broadest region; 

 eyes two pairs, rounded, black, the anterior much the larger and more 

 prominent, the posterior distant from them less than their own diam- 

 eter mesiad and caudad. Median tentacle with stout cylindrical basal 

 piece slightly shorter than prostomium ; style about 4 times the length 

 of prostomium, tapering to a slender region beyond which is a subter- 

 minal ball and a short terminal filament. Lateral tentacles with 

 ceratophores less than ^ that of median tentacle, and continuous with 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



frontal processes of head, which are shghtly dorsad of the level of the 

 median ceratophore; style similar in form to median but with a rela- 

 tively longer terminal filament which reaches only to the median ball. 

 Palpi with very broad, widely separated bases, fully half of which pro- 

 ject beyond the sides of the head; otherwise they are similar in form to 

 the palpi of L. chitoniformis; basal f brown, the i-est white. 



Peristomial parapodia not quite reaching to tip of mecUan tentacular 

 ceratophore; the dorsal tentacular cirrus, which alone remains in the 

 only specimen, similar in form to median tentacle, but ^nth a longer 

 filament, and the entire style slightly shorter. The protruded probos- 

 cis has a length of 6 mm. and a diameter of 3.7 mm. It bears four 

 light brown fang-like jaws of the usual form, and thirteen papillae above 

 and thirteen below, all but the small lateral ones, which are simple, 

 being strongly curved, compressed and bilobate. There is also a trans- 

 versely elongated low subterminal ventral papillae. 



Total number of somites, including peristomium, 26; setigerous 

 somites 25; elytra 12 pairs. Nephridial papillae maybe detected as 

 far forward as IV, but the first 3 are very small, the others exactly as 

 described for chitonifonnis. Except that the difference in size between 

 the anterior and posterior ones of the dorsal series is less evident, the 

 dorsal tubercles are exactly as in L. chitoniformis. No important 

 differences are to be noted in the form and structure of the 

 elytrophores. 



The branchiae have the same arrangement as in L. chitoniformis and, 

 although fewer and simpler, are larger and more conspicuous than in 

 that species. All are rather long and slender and entirely unbranched, 

 and are directed more or less laterad and dorsad. None occurs on the 

 dorsimi of the parapodium. On the elytra-bearing somites one arises 

 from each the posterior and anterior border of the elytrophore, the 

 former being somewhat the larger and more laterad. On the anterior 

 face of the parapodium is a series of about 3, arranged along a line from 

 the one mentioned above to the base of the ventral cirrus, to which, 

 however, it does not reach ; one or two smaller detached processes may 

 lie ventrad of the middle of this series. On the posterior face usually 

 3 in a group are foimd below the outer end of the elytrophore, at a 

 lower level than the anterior series. On the cirrhiphorous somites the 

 arrangement differs slightly. A short anterior one arises from the 

 border of the ridge passing to the cirrus ; an oblique series of 4 occurs 

 on the anterior face of the parapodium. Posteriorly there are tw^o mar- 

 ginal, a cirral which arises from the base of the cirrus in actual contact 

 with its posterior gland, and 2 or 3 others lower down on the posterior 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



face of the parapodium. Toward the ends of the body the number 

 of branchial filaments diminishes. 



The parapodial dorsal and ventral cirri are much the same as in 

 L. chitinoformis, but the dorsal cirrus is somewhat shorter, just barely 

 reaching the ventral setce tips; its knob is generally more spherical, 

 and its basal glands, while similarly arranged, much longer. 



Both dorsal and ventral setae are similar in their arrangement to 

 those of L. chitoniformis. The former are shorter than in that 

 species, leaving the entire bearded portion of the ventral setffi exposed 

 from above, and are more slender, softer and more densely provided 

 with longer lateral processes, which are arranged either in tufts or 

 whorls, the exact arrangement being uncertain owing to the presence 

 of an incrustation of foreign matter. The latter are somewhat stouter, 

 wdth shaggier beards of fewer rows of hairs; one was found with a 

 terminal sheath still partly in place. 



In number, arrangement, form, and even in the character of their 

 papillae and ciha, the elytra of this species approximate those of 

 L. chitoniformis. The chief difference lies in the larger size of the 

 granules and the strong tendency of the papillae to become spinous. 

 The papilke immediately surrounding the low^ scar ridge are of a stellate 

 form with long, sharp-pointed rays bearing one or more conical 

 spinous on the upper side. The largest of this type are posterior to the 

 ridge, where occur also a few nearly globular papillae bearing a single 

 long conical spine. On the medial side of the scar ridge these papillae 

 become gradually more irregular and oblic{ue, finally passing into the 

 smaller papillae w'hose pointed summits are directed toward the pos- 

 terior margin of the scales. Toward the covered area of the scale all 

 papillae become smaller and smoother, and soon low, rounded and color- 

 less. Clavate papillae occur in the lateral area, and in a postero-lateral 

 marginal row ; they are relatively smaller and much more slender than 

 in L. chitoniformis and bear numerous prominent conical points instead 

 of rough nubs. The erect ones of the lateral area bear a nmnber of 

 spines, varying with the size of the papilla, along all parts of their 

 sides and summits, whereas the reclining ones of the marginal row have 

 spines on the upper or exposed surface only. Over the region of the 

 scar, in addition to the stellate papillae, which there attain their maxi- 

 mum size, are from 4 to 6 particularly prominent papillae crowned 

 with numerous short spines arranged in a tuft. In spite of their rough- 

 ness all of the papillae, even the largest, are soft. The covered portions 

 of the scales and the lateral zone are colorless, the middle and pos- 

 terior parts yellowish-brown, against which the various colored papillae 




412 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Stand out clearly. The larger papillae are chocolate-brown, reddish- 

 brown, yeUo wish-brown, partly brown and partly yellow, or, in strik- 

 ing contrast, white, and it is very seldom that two adjacent ones are 

 of the same color. 



One specimen, type, Sta. 3,702, Sagami Bay, 31-43 fms. 



L. hranchiferus and L. chitoniformis are evidently closely related to 

 L. giganteus Kirk from New Zealand which, according to Thomson, 

 possesses essentially similar branchise and dorsal tubercles, and exhibits 

 additional features of resemblance in the elytra and setae. In a number 

 of respects aU three depart from the typical species of Lepido7iotus and 

 might very properly be segregated as a distinct generic group. Lepi- 

 donotus hranchiata (Treadwell) from Porto Rico possesses similar 

 branchiae, but the setae and eh^tra are quite different and no reference 

 is made in the description to dorsal tubercles. 

 Lepidonotus caelorus sp. nov. (PI. XXIII. fig. 12.) 



The form is, as usual in the genus, short and compact, but much 

 more slender than the 2 species just described; the largest specimen 

 measures 25 mm. long, exclusive of the tentacles and anal cirri, and 

 8 mm. -udde to the tips of the setae. Number of somites 26, 25 bearing 

 setigerous parapodia, and 12 elytra. Ventral surface smooth, with 

 nephridial papillae from VIII to XXV inclusive; all but the first are 

 prominent and tubular and project freely caudo-laterad. 



Prostomiimi slightly wider than long, though the continuation of 

 the peaks into the bases of the lateral tentacles gives it a somewhat 

 elongated aspect. Eyes normally 2 pairs, which have coalesced in 

 the type; the posterior near the caudal end of the lateral surface, but 

 not concealed by the nuchal fold, looking latero-dorso-caudad, hea\y 

 black, circular; the anterior lateral, at the point of greatest width, 

 looking latero-dorsad, larger than the posterior and eUiptical or crescen- 

 tric, black. 



Except the palpi the cephahc appendages are very easily displaced, 

 and the median tentacle is present in the type alone. Its total length 

 is about 5 times the head, of which ^ is made up of the basal piece and 

 3%- of the filamentous tip; basal piece constricted at the middle, the 

 proximal portion more opaque and smoother; style slender throughout 

 and tapering to a shghtly subterminal enlargement, beyond which it 

 diminishes suddenly to the fihform tip. The lateral tentacles are 

 more often preserved and vary considerably in length. They have 

 the same general form as the median tentacle, but are longer and 

 decidedly more slender, with the subterminal enlargement scarcely evi- 

 dent, and the filiform tip longer (up to \ of the entire length) ; the basal 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



piece, which is continuous with the prostomial lobes, is shghtly shorter, 

 and arises at a shghtly more ventral level. Palpi about 3 times length 

 of prostomium, thickened basally, tapered to end, which bears a very 

 short terminal filament. 



The peristomium presents no noteworthy features. Tentacular cirri 

 similar to lateral tentacles, the dorsal soraewvvhat exceeding median 

 tentacle, the ventral sUghtly shorter; the slender parapodium, which 

 supports them, reaching beyond the tentacular basal pieces. 



The typical parapodium (X) presents the following features : neuro- 

 podium large, nearly truncate or slightly angulated at the point from 

 which the deep brown aciculum protrudes, ventral margin horizontal, 

 dorsal sloping ^\dth a slight curve to the elytrophore ; notopodiimi amere 

 lobe on antero-dorsal face of neuropodium, supported by a slender 

 aciculum. Ventral cirri with a short filiform appendage, the tip of 

 which falls short of the bases of the neuropodial setae ; dorsal cirri borne 

 on prominent ceratophores which have a dorso-caudad position with 

 relation to the foot, similar in form to the tentacular cirri, about 2^ 

 times as long as the ventral cirri, of which length the ceratophore 

 constitutes -j. 



The ventral cirrus of the 1st foot is, as usual, longer; on the last two 

 the dorsal ceratophores become posterior ; the last foot lacks the noto- 

 podium, or at least the notopodial setae. The anal cirri are the longest 

 appendages of the body, fully tmce the dorsal cirri, and bear very long 

 filiform tips. 



Twelve pairs of elytra are borne on somites II, III, IV, VI, VIII, X, 

 XII, XIV, XVI, XVIII, XXI and XXIV. They are strongly imbricated 

 and tough, membranous and firmly attached. With the exception of 

 the first and last they are elongate-pyriform, or more ovate posteriorly, 

 attached posterior to the middle, and with the slender pre-peduncular 

 portion covered by the preceding scale; the first is broadly elhpsoidal, 

 the last roughly triangular with the longest side mediad and the angles 

 rounded. With the exception of a narrow smooth area at the anterior 

 end, the entire dorsal surface of the scale is tliickly clothed with papillae 

 of various kinds. Anteriorly are a few small conical spines with apices 

 directed obhquely toward the posterior margin of the scale. Farther 

 back they become larger and more numerous and distinctly differenti- 

 ated into two forms distributed to the internal and external halves of 

 the scale. On the external area they remain smaller and depart less 

 from the simple conical form, but most of them develop a few jagged 

 points at the apex and become more elevated, especially those of a 

 marginal series, which are larger and somewhat club-shaped. On 




414 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



the internal area a gradual transition into larger, rounded, rough papillae 

 takes place, especially over the area of attachment where this kind 

 occurs nearly exclusively; but elsewhere they are interspersed with. 

 papillae of the same type as, but larger than, those of the external 

 area. The large papillae are of a globular or haycock form and reach 

 a diameter of 10 or even 20 times that of the spines. Their surface 

 markings are ver}- peculiar and characteristic, somewhat resembhng 

 the chasing of a cane or umbrella head, but rougher than such work is 

 customarily. Sometimes the markings are very regularly arranged in 

 rows converging to the apex, and may then be simply roughened ridges 

 and grooves, or rows of overlapping scales or even spines. The first 

 and last elytra are the roughest of all and have the largest papillae. 

 A strong fringe of long cilia marks the posterior external margin of 

 typical scales and nearly encircles (except for a small part of the inter- 

 nal margin) the first. The longest have a length of about ^ or | of 

 the greatest transverse diameter of the scales, but become much shorter 

 on approaching the mesial side, along the whole exposed portion of 

 which they are continued as integument al sense-organs of gradually 

 diminishing length. 



The notopodial setae form a large spreading tuft, but their tips 

 scarcely reach beyond the end of the neuropodium ; they are pale hay 

 color, capillary, bipinnate, -^ith the lateral processes alternating. 

 0\\ang to a constant coating of foreign substances few details can be 

 made out. Xeuropodial setae arranged in 3 supraacicular and 5 sub- 

 acicular horizontal rows, amber-colored, relatively slender, with the 

 smooth tips unusually long, and except on the most dorsal, exceeding 

 the spinous portion in length ; 4 transverse rows of spines on the ven- 

 tralmost setae, 9 on the dorsalmost. 



Some color is retained in the elytra, which are yellow or brown, some- 

 times vnth an irregular greenish blotch surrounding a pale area opposite 

 the point of attachment, the larger papillae usually dark brown. The 

 dorsal cirri and all cephalic appendages, with the exception of the palpi, 

 have a broad zone of dark green pigment above the base, and a deeper 

 but narrower one just proximad of the subterminal enlargement. 



Lepidonotus ccvloriis somewhat resembles L. pleiolepis von IMarenzel- 

 ler, but differs especially in the numerous spheroidal papilla? on the 

 elytra and the more slender form and longer smooth tips of the neuro- 

 podial setae. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms., type and 8 other specimens; Suruga 

 Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



Lepidonotus (Hylosynda) vexillarius sp. nnv. (PI. XXIII, fi,?s. is, 14, 15.) 



A rather slender species, measuring 23.5 mm. in length, 2.5 mm. in 

 maximum breadth of bod}' on the ventral surface of X, 4 mm. to ends 

 of parapodia, and 5.5 to tips of setse. 



Prostomium slightly wider than long, sides smoothly convex without 

 any prominent lateral lobes, posterior margin for its middle half con- 

 tinuous with peristomium, frontal sinus very shallow. Eyes 2 pairs, 

 black, circular; the anterior larger and situated close to lateral margins 

 at widest part of head ; posterior on posterolateral curvature, looking 

 caudad, dorsad and laterad. Median tentacle arises from dorsal sinus 

 nearly on the level of the dorsal surface of the prostomium; its 

 ceratophore about f as long as prostomium, white with a very con- 

 spicuous circular light brown spot covering most of the dorsum of the 

 basal half; st3'le scarcely three times as long as prostomium, of grace- 

 ful form, tapering very gradually for the first f , then increasing even 

 more gradually to near the end of the next f , then suddenly rounding 

 off and bearing a delicate terminal filament, which makes up the final 

 3-; colors very pretty, rather dark brown at the base but fading grad- 

 ually to white, \\dth a deep brown, sharply-defined ring on the basal 

 half of the subterminal enlargement, the remaining half and the ter- 

 minal filament white. Ceratophores of lateral tentacles continuous/ 

 with frontal processes of head, on the same level as the median cerato- 

 phore but only f as long and little more than ^ as thick ; styles twice the 

 length of the prostomium, of nearly equal diameter to the median 

 tentacles, and terminal filament constituting nearly h of their length ; 

 ceratophore dark brown, contrasting strongly with the colorless pro- 

 stomium, a very narrow terminal white ring, styles colored as on median 

 tentacle. Palpi reach to base of terminal filament of median tentacle, 

 their bases broad, mostly concealed from above by the tentacular cerato- 

 phores and buccal parapodia, taper rapidly in a concave outline to a 

 rather slender terminal half ending in a short filament; pale brown 

 throughout. 



Peristomial parapodia of the usual form. Tentacular cirri with styles 

 similar to median tentacle in form and color, but with longer filament; 

 the dorsal exceeds the ventral by the length of its filament and equals 

 the median tentacle. There are 36 somites, exclusive of the pygidium, 

 of which 35 are setigerous. Body smooth both dorsally and vcntrally, 

 the neural depression well marked and about as wide as the muscle 

 ridges. No nephridial tubercles can be detected, but small dark spots 

 in their usual position appear to be pores. Dorsum of the first 12 

 somites marked with brown spots of diminishing size, a small brown 

 postanal spot, rest of body colorless. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The 2d parapodiimi (1st setigerous) is, as usual, shorter and its ven- 

 tral cirrus longer than the others, but is pecuHar in this species in that 

 it is widely separated from the 3d and projects forward by the side of 

 the mouth. Its ventral cirrus is quite distinct from the foot, and arises 

 from a lobe which is carried for^-ard to a position partly beneath the 

 base of the palp, so that it actually arises between the tentacular 

 cirrus and the palp. Typical parapodia moderately developed, vnih 

 short, thick, obtuse neiuopodia and fairly well-developed notopodia 

 occupying the usual position; neiu'opodial aciculimi especially stout, 

 a shght angulation of the foot at the point of its emergence. Dorsal 

 cirri with prominent postero-dorsal ceratophores and stout erect styles 

 with a shght subterminal enlargement and flo^\'ing terminal filament; 

 teach marked at about the middle "^ith a blackish-browm ring; if 

 depressed they would reach just beyond the tips of the ventral setae. 

 Toward the posterior end they become more slender and lose the sub- 

 terminal enlargement; the last 3 diminish rapidly in length, and are 

 carried horizontally behind with the pair of anal cirri, which are simi- 

 larh* formed, but the largest appendage of the body, and in addition to 

 the middle broT\'n ring, have a narrow basal one. 



The 18 pairs of elytra occur on II, IV, Y, and every alternate somite 

 to XXVII inclusive, then on XXVIII, XXX, XXXI and XXXIII. 

 The first is orbiculo-quadrate, the next two shghtly emarginate, the 

 foUowing ones obhquely ovate with the posterior internal margin more 

 strongly convex than the antero-external; the point of attachment is 

 a little caudad of the middle of the long axis and somewhat toward the 

 antero-external border. A dense fringe of cilia extends over about 

 ^ of the lateral margin of each, principaUy that part which projects 

 freely at the sides; the entire dorsal surface is thickly covered with 

 small angulated or prismatic papillse mth thickened cuticle, which are 

 very densely aggregated in a narrow zone contiguous to the cihated 

 margin of the scale ; 1 or 2 papiUae of the same form but 4-5 times as 

 large may also be present. The 1st scale is peculiar in the character 

 of its papillee, many of w^hich are tail, slender cones of various sizes, 

 about five or six of them being ver}'' large, -u-ith a height almost equal 

 to the short diameter of the scar. A few similar but smaller papillae 

 may occur on the 2d, 3d and last scales. Most of the elytra have merely 

 a small but very conspicuous brown spot over the place of attachment, 

 but the anterior ones are blotched, and the posterior speckled, with 

 brown. 



Notopodial setae colorless, in 2 groups, the anterior of about six, 

 very short, stout, strongly ciuved, vrith. a short smooth tip and 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



strongly serrate convex margin, the teeth becoming smaller basally. 

 Those of the posterior and more ventral group more numerous and 

 about 4 times as long, relatively slender, pointed, straight or shghtly 

 curved, closely and doubly pinnate wdth short fine processes. Neuro- 

 podial setae about 20, in 2 irregular vertical rows, rather stout, shghtly 

 bent but scarcely enlarged at the end, the long smooth, simple, shghtly 

 curved point nearly as long as the serrated portion, especially on the 

 ventralmost setse; teeth of terminal row very large and prominent, 

 followed by from 5-9 rows of smaUer ones diminishing toward the 

 base. 



Ivnown from the type only, Totomi Sea, 3,729, 34 fms. 

 Hylosynda carinata sp. nov. (PI. xxni, figs. 16, 17.) 



A large species here described from an anterior fragment, consisting 

 of the prostomium and 26 anterior somites, with a length of 26 mm. 

 and a breadth of 10.5 mm. between the setse tips of X, where the bod}^ 

 has a '^ddth on the ventral surface of 6 mm. 



Prostomium very short, twice as vdcle as long, though this ratio may 

 be due in part to contraction; anterior margin with a deep median sul- 

 cus, on each side of which are the broadly roimded lobes that pass into 

 the bases of the lateral tentacles; lateral margins strongly convex, and 

 posterior nearly straight. Eyes 2 pairs, black, circular; the anterior 

 facing laterad and slightly dorsad at about the middle of the lateral 

 faces; posterior about ^ the diameter of anterior, widely separated, 

 but a httle mediad of lateral, on the posterolateral cm-vature of the 

 prostomium. 



Ceratophore of median tentacle arising from frontal sulcus, its length 

 about equalling prostomium, stout, with a distinct terminal ring; 

 style about 4^ times the length of the prostomium, slightly enlarged 

 near the end, then suddenly contracted into a short terminal filament, 

 which, with the distal portion of the enlargement, is white, the rest, 

 including the ceratophore, coffee-brown. Ceratophores of lateral 

 tentacles continuous with frontal lobes, f the length of median cerato- 

 phore, and of the same shape and color; style siinilar to median style 

 but more slender, and the relatively longer terminal filament reaching 

 to the beginning of the white zone of the median style. Palpi a trifle 

 longer than lateral tentacles, the base stout, their greatest diameter 

 about ^ prostomium, the terminal half rather slender with a very short 

 terminal filament ; longitudinal ciliated ridges very strongly developed, 

 2 medial, and 1 each dorsal, lateral and latero-ventral ; surface marked 

 by irregular wrinkles which are of a much deeper brown color than 

 the intervening areas. Pharynx stout, short, when protruded equal to 

 27 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



the prostomium and first 5 somites only; the jaws as usual, no median 

 tooth; papillae f large, bilobed. 



Peristomial parapodium reaches level of median tentacular cerato- 

 phore ; styles similar to tentacles in form and color ; the dorsal slightly 

 longer, the ventral equalling median in diameter and slightly exceed- 

 ing lateral in length. Ventral surface of body smooth, the neural 

 groove well marked, and anteriorly equal in width to the lateral 

 muscle bands. Nerve cords in contact throughout length. Some 

 of the somites are filled with purphsh eggs. . 



Parapodia prominent, but their length not exceeding f width of 

 body. Neuropodia taper toward shghtly di\'ided end which slopes 

 dorsad to a broadly rounded tip ; anterior lobe slightly larger and receiv- 

 ing the aciculum ; a slight subterminal constriction. Notopodium small 

 but prominent, on dorso-anterior face shghtly distad of middle of 

 parapodium, supported by a strong aciculum and bearing a few setse. 

 The dorsal cirri have very prominent ceratophores wliich are erect, 

 curved laterad and supported on posterior margin of dorsal surface of 

 parapodia ; they resemble the tentacular cirri in form, color and size 

 and fully ^ of their length reaches beyond the corresponding setae. 

 The ventral cirri arise from low ceratophores about opposite the noto- 

 podia ; the styles are slender and reach to the subterminal neuropodial 

 constriction. 



Only a few anterior elytra remain. They occur on the usual somites, 

 and are dehcate and membranous, but rather firmly attached. The 

 1st pair is missing; succeeding ones are broadly and nearly regu- 

 larly reniform, with small elliptical areas of attachment so near to 

 the lateral margins that fully f of each scale is free medially, permitting 

 them to overlap broadly. Margins smooth and non-cihate. Dorsal 

 surface punctate with distant sensory spots, and smooth except for 

 an anterior border, broadest at the emargination, bearing small, low, 

 faintly keeled crowded papillae ; most of the scales bear a prominent, 

 more or less serrate crest extending from a point just over the medio- 

 caudad margin of the scar toward, but not to, the posterior margin ; 

 frequently a similar but shghter ridge runs from the main one at an 

 angle of 30°-45° laterad and caudad, or almost exactly in the direction 

 of the dorsal cirrus of the following somite. The general surface of 

 the scales is a dehcate pale mottled brown, the crests a deeper brown. 



Only 3 or 4 notopodial setae occur in a small tuft which arises from 

 the anterior surface of the base of the notopodium, and fails by a con- 

 siderable distance to reach the end of the latter; they are rather stout 

 for their length, slightly curved and tapering, but not sharp- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



pointed, the outer half marked with transverse rows of rather coarse 

 serrulae. Neuropodial setae in 2 or 3 vertical rows between ensheathing 

 lips ; pale amber color, free end enlarged for a greater distance on the 

 ventralmost setse, curved slightly dorsad, the tip bifid, the longer ter- 

 minal process curved but not hooked, the ventral spur straight, large 

 and continuous with the distal comb, transverse combs 12-17. and, 

 with the exception of a few proximad of the enlargement, all with 

 long teeth. 



The station at which the type was taken is unknown; a fragment 

 also occurs in the collections from Sta. 3,708, Suruga Bay. 60-70 fms. 

 Hylosynda magnacornuta sp. nov. (PI. XXIII, fig. 18.) 



A slender species described from a fragment consisting of the head 

 and 26 somites. 



Prostomium about 1^ times as long as broad, but the prominent 

 muscular ridges which extend from its sides to the peristomial parapo- 

 dia make it appear much broader, about twice as broad as long if these 

 are included in the measurement. A median dorsal groove divides 

 both anterior and posterior margins, but fades out at the vertex, 

 anterior lobes broadly rounded, continuous with the bases of the lateral 

 tentacles. Eyes 2 pairs, wid-ely separated, small, black; anterior pair 

 sUghtly the larger, lateral in position and nearer the anterior than pos- 

 terior margin of the head, scarcely visible from above. Posterior pair 

 smaller, entirely dorsal, separated from posterior border by about 

 twice their diameter and from each other by about 7 times their diam- 

 eter. Tentacle styles all lost, their ceratophores small, the lateral slightly 

 more dorsal than the median and arising without any definite boundary 

 from the anterior prostomial lobes; all sharply distinguished from the 

 colorless head by thin deep chocolate bases. Palpi very large, about 

 6 times the length of the head and at thickest part more than ^ its width, 

 the base constricted at its point of origin beneath the prostomium, 

 gradually thickened to the end of the first fourth and then tapered to 

 the long slender tip. Proboscis protruded, equal to head and 1st 11 

 somites; besides the dark browai paired long claw-like jaws, there 

 is a small, low, conical, nearly black median dorsal and a similar ventral 

 tooth; papillae |, sharp-pointed, scarcely bilobed. 



Tentacular cirri lost. Ventral surface of body smooth. Neural 

 groove about f the width of the lateral muscle areas anteriorly, dimin- 

 ishing to ^ posteriorly. The two halves of the nerve cord widely 

 separated as far as somite XI or XII, then gradually approaching but 

 not completely united within the limits of this specimen. Nephridial 

 tubercles begin on V, soon becoming conspicuous and standing out 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



freely from the base of the parapodia. The last 7 somites present have 

 their parapodia packed with, whitish eggs. 



Parapodia long, exceeding the dorsal -uldth of the body except at its 

 widest part, slender, tapering ^Adth a gentle cm-ve to the shghtly bi- 

 lobed tip, the distal end oblique with a rather acute dorsal angle. The 

 neuropodium, which forms the greater part of the parapodimn, as 

 just described, is di^-ided by a vertical cleft into two plates, which are 

 not so widely separated as in Scalesetosus , though that condition is 

 approached anteriorly; anterior lobe the larger and receives the end 

 of the rather strongly curved aciculiun. The notopodium is a rudi- 

 mentary nipple-hke process which bears no setae but receives the end 

 of a slender aciculmii. No important variations of the parapodia be- 

 yond the usual diminution in size occur toward the ends of the body. 



Except for a minute regenerating one on XV all of the elytra have 

 been lost. 



The neuropodial setae are perfectly colorless, dehcate and brittle, 

 but not especially slender in proportion to their length: the end rather 

 abruptly enlarged, shghtly curved and tapering to a bifid extremity, 

 the terminal process of which is larger and shghtly hooked; immedi- 

 ately proximad of the 2d one or spur are 9-14 short transverse combs, 

 the teeth of which are minute distally but in the proximal rows exceed 

 the diameter of the seta. There are no notopodial setae. 



Type, Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms. 



APHRODITID^. 

 Laetmatonice producta Grube. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms. 

 Laetmatonice producta Grube var. benthaliana Mcintosh. 



Suruga Bay, 3,726, 26 fms.; Totomi Sea, 3,729, 34 fms.; North 

 Japan, 3,772, 79 fms.; North Japan, 3,774, 81 fms. 



Laetmatonice filicornis Kinberg. 



A single specimen of this Atlantic species occurs in the collection 

 from an unknoT\-n station. The setae chffer somewhat from those of 

 specimens dredged off the American coast. 

 Laetmatonice japonica Mcintosh. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.; Sagami Bay, 3,738, 167 fms. 



Laetmatonice pellucida sp. nov. (PI. XXIII, figs. 19, 20.) 



Tliis species belongs to the producta group, and if Mcintosh's views 

 concerning the subch\isions of the latter prove to be correct may have 

 to be considered as a variety merely. The largest specimen measures 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



30 mm., and the type 26 mm. long, and 11 vdde between the tips of 

 the parapodia. 



Prostomium a flattened spheroid, slightly wider than long, with 

 a slightly elevated median area which fades away anteriorly and 

 widens posteriorly, where it is continuous with the peristomium. 

 Ocular peduncles about f as long as the prostomiimi, from the anterior 

 face of which they arise, the ends enlarged and globular, the bases nar- 

 row and stalk-like: no distinct eyes, but a slight discoloration of the 

 ends of the peduncles. ^ledian tentacle \^•ith a thick swollen cerato- 

 phore which fills the space between the ocular peduncles, and about 

 equals the prostomium in length; the style excessiveh' slender, fili- 

 form, scarcely tapered, at least 9 times as long as the prostomium, its 

 extremity slightly bulbous, with a subterminal constriction and a 

 second more proximal enlargement. Palpi very slender, regularly 

 tapering, wliiplash-like, fully 15 times as long as the prostomium. 

 Facial tubercle prominent, extending from the base of median tentacle 

 into mouth, covered ^xiih conspicuous papillae arranged in rows. 



Peristomium short, coalesced with median portion of prostomium 

 above, and miited with somites II and III to form a broad quadrate 

 postoral plate below. Setigerous somites 33, very indistinctly limited 

 except at the bases of the parapodia; the surface quite smooth except 

 on the postoral plate and the region immediately follo\\dng, which are 

 covered with globular papillae of much smaller size than in many other 

 species. The integuments are extremely transparent, so that the in- 

 ternal organs, and particularly the arrangement of the alimentary 

 canal, nervous system and the masses of germ cells, can be clearly seen. 

 The retracted proboscis reaches to somite XVI. 



Parapodia of the usual form, -with only a few very small spherical 

 papillae on the ventral surface; notopodia short, conical, directed 

 nearly vertically on the scale-bearing, horizontally on the cirri-bearing 

 somites ; neuropodia long, verj' slender, and truncate at the end. Dor- 

 sal cirri of the same form as the median tentacle, equalling or exceeding 

 the width of the body, and reaching far beyond the ends of the setae. 

 Ventral cirri short, about I the length of the neuropodium, sUghtly 

 tapering, blimt-pointed. Peristomial parapodia directed straight for- 

 ward by the sides of the head, and nearly twice as long as the pro- 

 stomiimi -with its ocular peduncles. At its end a spreading tuft of 

 capillary setse arises from the inner side and occupies the space in front 

 of the head, while from the outer face the tentacular cirri spring at 

 right angles and then curve forward; they have form of the dorsal cirri, 

 but are scarcely half their length, and much less than the median 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



tentacle. The first few neuropodia are shorter and stouter than the 

 others, and the ventral cirri relativeh* longer; the last 3 parapodia are 

 much reduced in size. 



The elytra are fully exposed and. except the last pair, large, nearly 

 elliptical, but with a slight emargination at the point of attachment 

 on the lateral margin, from which point they extend inward and meet 

 in the middle hne but do not overlap in full-grow^n specimens; they 

 are perfect^ smooth, gelatinoid, pellucid and exhibit internally a 

 peculiar fibrous structure closely simulating the appearance of the 

 lacimse and canahculae of bone tissue. Fifteen pairs occur on II, IV, 

 V and succeeding alternate somites. 



Dorsal felt fibers are entirely absent, and the spines are so few and 

 small as to give to the species a characteristic improtected aspect. 

 The following is the arrangement of the setse on a ti'pical elytrophorous 

 somite of the middle body region. The notopodial aciculum projects 

 obliquely caudad and laterad, forming a pointed prominence, just 

 within which a tuft of light golden spines spreads through the emargina- 

 tion of and over the dorsum of the elytron. These spines are few in 

 number, and remarkably smaU and slender, both of which conditions 

 may be due to the loss of the longer spines. They have the usual 

 tapering, hoDow stems, wdth the protuberances few in nimiber and of 

 unusually large size, the spear-head flattened, long and acute, "^-ith 2 or 3 

 additional barbs on one side and 3 or 4 on the other. On the ventro- 

 posterior part of the notopodium is a tuft of dehcate, flexible, finely 

 striated, hair-like setse which spread chiefly do^mward and outward 

 over the anterior face of the succeeding parapodiimi. Xeuropodium 

 supported by a stout central aciculum about which are grouped 6 or 8 

 rather stout, rich brown setse, with long hollow shafts striated both 

 longitudinally and circularly, the outer ^ or j bent, with a prominent 

 spur at the convexity, beyond that tapering and provided -uith a single 

 close row' of very long hairs, the terminal ones of which envelop the 

 slightly curved point. Cirriferous parapodia differ chiefly in the 

 absence of dorsal spines and in having the capillar}' setse coarser, 

 stiffer, more nimierous and spreading in a horizontal plain from a short 

 line on the dorsal surface anterior to the dorsal cirrus. A tuft of such 

 setse occurs on the peristomial parapodia; on II the neuropodials are 

 slender, and doubly fringed, and similar ones occur on III; those of 

 TV, however, are typical. 



Color pinkish. 



Bering Sea, 3,784, 85 fms. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



Aphrodita australis Baird. 



This, the representative in the AiistraHan seas of our well-known sea 

 mouse, has not been recorded hitherto from Japanese waters. 



Sagami Ba}-, 3.696, 501-749 fms., and 3,697, 120-265 fms. 



Aphrodita japonica v. Marenz. 



Von Marenzeller describes the ventral spines of his specimen as 

 smooth, a condition which I have assumed to have resulted from the 

 wearing awa}' of the hairs present in all three of the "Albatross" ex- 

 amples. The palpi are also longer in the latter. 



Sagami Bay, 3,69S, 153 fms.; Sagami Bay, 3,704, 94 fms.; Suruga 

 Bay, 3,713, 45 fms. 



ACCETID^. 



RESTIO gen. nov. 



Both median and paired tentacles entireh' absent; palpi well devel- 

 oped; ommatophores wanting or completely coalesced with the sides 

 of the prostomium so that the eyes are sessile; peristomial palpi with- 

 out setse; setse in general resembling those of Eupanthalis. 



Eestio aenus sp. nov. (PI. XXIV, figs. 21-24.) 



Represented by an anterior end consisting of the prostomium and 

 41 somites, probably the greater part of the worm, and measuring 

 35 mm. long, and 5.2 mm. in total width, which is remarkably con- 

 stant. 



Prostomium slightly wdder than long, broadly bilobate anteriorly 

 where a slightly median sinus divides it into two broadly rounded lobes 

 from which the slides slope caudad to the somewhat narrower, straight 

 posterior border. There are two pairs of e^'es, of which the first are 

 very large, black, cup-shaped, with a lens-like central thickening, and 

 face directly forward, being situated on the anterior face of the pro- 

 stomium close to the lateral angles. The posterior have a diameter of 

 only ^ the anterior, are black, circular, without lenses, and are situated 

 on the sloping lateral faces of the prostomium, from which they look 

 outward and caudad across the pit to be mentioned below. From be- 

 tween the eyes of each side a translucent membranous process reaches 

 laterad to, but not uniting with, the peristomial parapodia. There is 

 not the sUghtest trace to be seen of median or paired tentacles, nor of 

 the scars which they should leave if accidentally broken away, although 

 the front of the head was examined with very great care mider favorable 

 conditions. The palpi have been lost, but very distinct scars remain 

 beneath the anterior eyes on the extreme lateral part of the anterior 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



face of the prostomiiim; the distance between them is IMimes their 

 diameter. 



Peristomial somite very distinct, its parapodia simple and extending 

 straight forward by the side of the prostomimn, with which they come 

 in contact between the two pairs of eyes by means of their swollen 

 anterior ends ; elsewhere they are separated from the head, thus leav- 

 ing a pair of deep pits between. Tentacular cirri lost, but leading deep 

 scars. Although the total width is nearly uniform, the body alone 

 tapers continuously from the peristomium caudad, being very slender 

 posteriorly; at VI it is 2^ times as wide as the parapodia are long; at 

 XX they are about equal, and behind XXV the v.i.dih of the body does 

 not exceed f the length of the parapodia. 



The parapodia following the peristomial exhibit a number of fea- 

 tures of interest. The next six are broad and very short, and so close 

 to the ventral surface of the body that the regular arched surface of the 

 dorsum is scarcely broken by them. The next (VIII) is decidedly longer, 

 and from this on to XXIV they continue to increase gradually in length 

 but very Httle in breadth. Beyond XXIV they are stout and thick, 

 and exceed in length the diameter of the body, with the dorsal and ven- 

 tral surfaces of which they are continuous; their thickness in this 

 region is a result of their distension by sperm masses. The anterior 

 parapodia have the neuropodia broad and divided into pre- and post- 

 setal lobes, of which the former is again divided into dorsal and ventral 

 processes ; the notopodium is altogether wanting on the 1st, but on the 

 others is represented by a tubercle of increasing size, into w^hich the 

 aciculum enters. On somites IX to XX the notopodium forms a rather 

 conspicuous broad flap, which passes do\\Ti the dorsal half of the an- 

 terior face of the parapodium, and from behind which the capillary setse 

 arise in connection with the integumental attachment of the fiber gland. 

 The dorsal angle of the neuropodium is prominent, rounded and achse- 

 tous ; the ventral angle is enveloped by the lower end of the postsetal 

 fold. The notopodium Ijecomes gradually reduced in size, and once 

 more shifts to a dorsal position and loses its setse ; by XXV it is a mere 

 dorsal papilla into which the aciculum enters and so remains to the 

 end. 



Only two elytra remain on the specimen, but at least 12 pairs of 

 functional elytrophores are present on II, IV, V and every alternate 

 somite to XXIII inclusive; posterior to this small elevations occur on 

 every alternate foot, but it is doubtful if they bear elytra. The two 

 scales present are small, not nearly meeting in the middle Hue, dehcate, 

 circular, low funnel form, the margins wrinkled ; they bear no papillse 




1903.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 426 



nor cilia, but the interior is apparently divided by delicate plates into 

 irregular polygonal cells, the largest of which are marginal. 



Four forms of setse occiu- on typical somites (X). Those of one 

 kind are colorless, long, slender, curved and tapering, bear rather dis- 

 tant opposite pairs of slender awn-Hke spines, and have sUghtly enlarged 

 bases not shown in the drawing (fig. 24) ; these are arranged in a single 

 long vertical row which extends nearly half-way down the anterior face 

 of the foot , and are attached to the notopodial fold which largely covers 

 them anteriorly; they do not occur caudad of XX. Behind these is 

 a second vertical row of stouter colorless spines, shghtly enlarged sub- 

 terminally and then tapering and fringed; few perfect examples of 

 these have been fovmd and none occur as far caudad as XXVI, and still 

 farther back the first-mentioned capillary setae are also wanting. A 

 third vertical row contains setse of two kinds and, with certain changes 

 in number and arrangement, is constant on all parapodia. Five or six 

 pale yellow, short, stout setae occupy the dorsal end of the bundle in 

 more anterior, and the middle in more posterior somites ; they present 

 a subterminal enlargement, and a peculiarly roughened slightly hooked 

 tip continued into a densely hairy fihform appendage and guarded by 

 a dense brush of very stiff hairs ; usuaUy the capillary tips and much of 

 the guard have been worn away, and possibly the tip is normally absent 

 posteriorly. Ventral to these in anterior, and both ventral and dorsal 

 in posterior, somites is a group of colorless more slender setse, with 

 broad lance-shaped ends and transverse rows of fine bristles which 

 become larger on the dorsal side. 



Besides the true notopodial and neuropodial acicula, fiber glands are 

 found in relation to all parapodia from somite IV to the end of the body, 

 although the chitinoid rope is conspicuous only between X and XXV. 

 In structure they resemble very closely Eisig's figures of Polyodontes, 

 that of XVI, for example, consisting of a dense strand of chitinoid fibers 

 of iridescent brassy color, enveloped in a cellular sheath and measming 

 15 mm. long by .3 m.m. in diameter. The free internal end gradually 

 tapers, the cellular sheath at the same time becoming thickened and 

 finally terminating in a slighth' bulbous mass of cells, from wliich the 

 gradually forming fillers may be traced. The outer end presents a 

 rather considerable spherical enlargement of about twice the diameter 

 of the strand and composed of a dark granular matter (cells?). It is 

 attached to the integument at the bottom of the postnotopodial groove 

 from which the most anterior row of setse arises, and when forcibly 

 pulled away entire some of these come with it. The strands pass into 

 the coelom, the anterior ones usually arranged horizontally by the 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



side of the pharynx, the smaller posterior ones coiled in about 2 turns 

 in the base of the foot. 



Type only, Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63 to 75 fms. 



SIGALEONID^. 



Thalanessa oculata Mcintosh. 



Sagami Bay, 3,702, 31-41 fms. ; 3,704, 94-150 fms. 

 Leanira areolata Mcintosh. 



Sagami Bay. 3,695, 3,696, 3,698, 153 to 749 fms. 

 Leanira japonica Mcintosh? 



An incomplete specimen is doubtfully referred to this species, from 

 which it differs considerably in the shape of the elytra. 



Totomi Sea, 3,731, 5-5-65 fms. 



EUPHRO S YNID^ . 

 Enplirosyne superba v. Marenz. 



The single example which represents tliis species has only 7 pairs of 

 branchiae to each somite. 



Suruga Bay, 3,717, 63-100 fms. 



AMPHINOMID^. 



Chloeia flava (Pallas) De Blain. 



This splendid annelid was collected in some numbers in 8 fathoms 

 at Tatyama, Japan. 



PHYLLODOOID^. 

 Eumidia caeca sp. nov. (PI. XXIII, figs, l, la.) 



A complete worm has 187 segments, and measures 88 mm. in length 

 and 4 mm. between the tips of the parapodia at the middle of the body. 

 Somewhat depressed, tapering about eciuall}- from the middle to both 

 bluntly pointed ends. 



Prostomiimi as viewed from above nearly circular, the postero- 

 lateral region somewhat encroached upon by the sides of the peris- 

 tomium. Eyes absent, but a dark spot near the center of the dorsal 

 surface. Frontal tentacles short, less than the transverse distance 

 between them, stoutly fusiform with the tip acute, those on each side 

 very close together, the ventral somewhat more caudad and about ^ 

 longer than the dorsal. Median tentacle very short, at extreme pos- 

 terior margin of peristomium. "Palpi," short lobes boimding the 

 mouth laterally and apparently connected vdih the peristomial somite. 



Peristomimn of two united somites, about twice the width of the 

 head and equalling it in length, encircHng the prostomium as a promi- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



nent fold which encroaches on it laterally, but emarginated dorsally 

 to accommodate the median tentacle. The anterior half of the per- 

 istomiiim bears the first tentacular cirrus and more ventralh" the so- 

 called palpi. Tentacular cirri rather short and stiff, with ver}' short 

 ceratophores ; the styles of the first conical, obtuse, with a length 

 scarcely exceeding the width of the prostomium; those of 2d peris- 

 tomial somite lanceoloid, acute; the dorsal one 3 times the length of 

 the 1st and reaching to somite X, the ventral | length of latter and 

 reaching to ^TI; tentacular (dorsal) cirrus of 3d (1st setigerous) 

 somite equal to preceding dorsal tentacular cirrus, and reaching to XL 

 Remaining somites well marked, strongly arched above, flattened 

 below, increasing in length to middle of body. Caudal end blunt, 

 without cirri in this specimen. Almost entire body, except a few an- 

 terior somites, filled wdth eggs. 



Parapodia uniramal throughout, all parts more or less fohaceous, 

 least so anteriorly. Neuropodium flattened antero-posteriorly, the 

 preset al lobe much the larger, broadly rounded and divided bj^ a nar- 

 row cleft at apex, postsetal lobe very short. Ventral cirrus leaf-like, 

 broadly ovate, the apex obtuse, much larger than neuropodium, pos- 

 teriorly overlapping and extending beyond it, obhquely attached by 

 basal half of dorsal margin to a flattened lobe-hke process from the 

 ventral side of the neuropodium. Notopodial cirrus reniform, with a 

 deep sinus; long diameter, which is directly oblique to longitudinal 

 axis of body, twice short diameter; posteriorly they are more rounded, 

 overlapping from before backward, covering parapodia and leaving 

 the dorsum of body only exposed; ceratophores very broad, flattened, 

 slightly curved dorsad, with a wing-like ventral process which probably 

 represents the notopodium, but receives no aciculum. Form of para- 

 podia very constant throughout entire length of body, the anterior 

 ones becoming smaller and the last three at the caudal end simplified. 



Setse all of one kind, arranged in a broad fan-shaped fasciculus, 

 colorless, compound, shaft very gently curved, slightly enlarged at 

 end ; socket narrow, its wall deeply cut away on one side and slightly 

 thickened at that point to form a seat for the slender base of the appen- 

 dix, elsewhere high and provided on each side with one large and three 

 or four smaller teeth; appendix very delicate, elongate, attenuate, 

 normally straight, though often curved in preparations, the back 

 thickened, the edge knife-hke and rather remotely serrulate with small 

 short teeth. 



The color is partially preserved; a rather broad band equal to ^ 

 width of back, of reddish-brown, marks the median dorsal region, be- 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



coming of a richer more purplish color anteriorly and there terminating 

 abruptly in a spot which includes the entire dorsum of the 7th to 10th 

 setigerous somites. A spot of the same bro-^-n color occiu-s on the 

 medial half of each dorsal cirrus. Otherwise the entire body and espe- 

 cially the cephalic region is of a brilhant white. 



Type specimen only; Sagami Bay, 3,702, 31-41 fms. 



Phyllodoce groenlandica (Oersted) Mgrn. 



A smaU example of 80 mm. 

 Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms. 



NEREIDS. 

 Nereis pusilla sp. nov. (PI. XXIV. figs. 25. 26, 27.) 



The type specimen, consisting of 50 somites, measures 20 mm. long 

 and 2.2 mm. between the tips of the parapodia at the \\-idest point. 



Prostomiimi longer than wide, the preocular portion httle narrower 

 than ocular, anterior margin broad, truncate, lateral margin little ex- 

 cavated for palpi. Eyes two pairs, large, conspicuous, black, appa- 

 rently posterior only with cuticiilar lenses ; posterior on extreme hinder 

 margin of head, circular; anterior somewhat larger, more widely sep- 

 arated, at bases of palpi, elhptical. Frontal tentacles widely sej^arated 

 at base, conical, length much less than (f) distance between posterior 

 eyes. Palpi prominent, as long as prostomium, terminal piece short, 

 conical. 



Peristomium ^ prostomium above, § as long laterally. Tentacular 

 cirri rather short, slender, non-articulate ; posterior dorsal reaches to 

 V, anterior dorsal to IV, and both ventral ones to III. The following 

 somites are long, the anterior ones equalling the peristomium in length. 



Parapodia slender and very prominent, after the 12th about equal- 

 ling the width of the body. The 15th parapodium has the base about 

 as long as deep, the notopodium larger than neuropodium, which it 

 slightly overlaps anteriorly; notopodium divided into two long, 

 pointed, conical, dorsal to ventral lobes, between which the setse arise, 

 and a very slightly shorter slender, presetal lobe; the notopodial cirrus 

 very slender, arising from the swollen basal ^ of the dorsal notopodial 

 lobe, and reaching scarcely beyond the tip of the latter. Xeuropodiimi 

 consisting of an elongated conical ventral lobe and a slender setigerous 

 lobe which divides at the end into a short broad presetal and a very 

 long slender postsetal process, the latter extending slightly beyond any 

 other portion of the foot; neuropodial cirrus small and slender, its 

 origin well separated from base of neuropodium, and its tip failing to 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



reach the middle of the ventral neuropodial lobe; the slender black 

 acicula are parallel, the neuropodial shghtly the longer. 



Anteriorly the parapodia become shorter and on the first and second 

 the notopodial setigerous lobe is lacking, the notopodial cirrus becomes 

 relatively shorter and the neuropodial longer than on the tj^pical foot, 

 so that the ventral is the longer on the first and has its base constricted 

 and the cuticle in that region much thickened. Posteriorly all of the 

 lobes become even more slender and elongated, the neuropodium and 

 notopodium are even more closely appressed, the neuropodial cirrus 

 more widely removed and so much diminished in size that it scarcely 

 reaches to the base of the ventral lobe, while the dorsal cirrus retains 

 its characteristic length. 



Setse all compound, nearly colorless and very transparent. Noto- 

 podial all alike, the stems slender and very regularly camerated, the 

 terminal socket symmetrical, blade remarkably slender, with capillary 

 tip and short fine hairs on the concave margin of the basal f ; those in 

 the dorsal part of the vertical row with much longer blades than the 

 ventral ones; similar setae occiu" in the dorsal and posterior part of 

 the neuropodium. In the ventral region of the neuropodium are a few 

 short-bladed compound setse; their stems rather stouter but camerated 

 in a similar regular manner, the end more enlarged, the socket obhque, 

 the long hmb of its margin receiving the septate cavity which is here 

 divided by a longitudinal partition; the blade hooked, guarded and 

 pro\'ided with very stiff hairs directed distally. SeveraF stouter setse 

 of this type occur in the anterior dorsal part of the neuropodium, but, 

 except for their slightly shorter blades, they differ in no noteworthy 

 manner from those just described. 



Exposed portion of maxillae brown, relatively short, broad, acute, 

 the edge ^vith 3 teeth in the basal half separated by a wider interval 

 from a 4th double tooth near the apical fang. Paragnathse brown, small, 

 conical, all separate, the posterior ones in each group somewhat larger ; 

 group I, 5 in longitudinal series, the first minute, increasing in size 

 caudad; II, oblique elliptical areas, in 3 ranks, anterior lateral of about 

 4, very small, middle of 6 larger, posterior internal of 5 still larger; 

 III, a small longitudinally elongated group of 10-12; IV, nearly cir- 

 cular areas of 18-24; the basal circle absent. 



Head and anterior segments delicate rose-red, brightest on head and 

 gradually fading posteriorly. The specimens are immature, but differ 

 from all described species, especially in the character of the paragnathae 

 and feet. 



Two specimens, Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Nereis paucidentata sp. nov. (PI. XXIV, figs. 28, 29, 30.) 



The type and only specimen is complete but in several pieces, which 

 have a total length of 95 mm., with a maximum wddth of 6 mm. at 

 XV. There are 118 fully developed somites and a small caudal tip 

 of 6 regenerating ones. 



Prostomium sUghtly l^roader than long, broadly rounded anteriorly, 

 where it is about + the greatest breadth across the anterior eyes, 

 broadly excavated at the sides for the bases of the palpi. Eyes 2 

 pairs, both wdth cuticular lenses, large, the anterior sUghtly the larger 

 and farthest apart. Frontal tentacles short, awl-shaped, about equal in 

 length to the distance between the posterior eyes. Palpi reaching to 

 tips of frontal tentacles, the bases stout and swollen, the styles nearly 

 spherical, knob-like, partly retracted into ends of bases, and about i 

 diameter of these. 



Peristomium dorsally nearly h length of prostomium. its enlarged lat- 

 eral part f as long. Tentacular cirri rather short, the styles more or 

 less distinctly articulated, posterior dorsal reaching Yl, anterior dorsal 

 V, posterior ventral III and anterior ventral II. 



The form of the somites presents nothing characteristic and the 

 caudal cirri are wanting. 



The parapodia resemble those of N. dumerilii, but the lobes are more 

 prolonged, and the dorsal cirrus has a more basal origin throughout the 

 series. The typical foot presents four principal elongated subequal 

 lobes, with a slender notopodial cirrus, about t\^^ce the length of the 

 lobes, arising from the swollen region near the middle of the dorsal 

 margin of the foot, and a neuropodial cirrus, about equalling the ven- 

 tral lobe, from which it is separated by a short interval. The neuro- 

 podium consists of a rather truncate setigerous lobe, bearing a broad 

 presetal process, into which the aciculum enters, a much longer and 

 more narrow conical postsetal lobe, and a slender, conical, ventral lobe. 

 The notopodium is separated from the neuropodium by a deep narrow 

 cleft, and consists of 2 slightly divergent, elongated, conical, dorsal and 

 ventral lobes, between w^hich the setse arise, guarded by a shorter, 

 flatter, presetal process, which is more closely connected with the ven- 

 tral lobe. Anteriorly the notopodial presetal process diminishes in 

 size and disappears entirely, -^ath the setse, on the second foot; the 

 setigerous lobe of the neuropodium undergoes little change, but the 

 ventral lobe becomes large and thick, and more closely united with it. 

 The first and second parapodia have the dorsal non-setigerous lobe 

 only of the notopodium, and the ventral lobe of the neuropodium 

 considerably larger than the setigerous lobe and broadly rounded at 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



the end; the dorsal cirrus is H times the length of the notopodium 

 and the ventral slightly longer than the neuropodium. Posteriorly the 

 notopodium increases relatively in size, giving the entire parapodium 

 an oblique aspect, at the same time becoming much more vascular and 

 contractile, which greatly affects the relative proportion of parts in 

 neighboring parapodia. Otherwise they undergo little alteration. 



The setae are all compound and three forms occur. The notopodials 

 are all similar, with slender, strongly and closely camerated shafts, 

 symmetrical sockets and long, straight, slender, tapering and strongly 

 fringed blades. In addition to the setae of the notopodial kind which 

 are the most numerous dorsal to the aciculum of the neuropodium, the 

 latter bears two other forms of compound setse. In the ventral part 

 of the foot are some rather stouter ones, in w^hich the shafts are cam- 

 erated and the sockets oblique, the fringed blades much shorter, broader, 

 hooked and guarded at the apex. Two or occasionally 3 much stouter 

 deep yellow setse project stiffly from a point just dorsad of the acicu- 

 lum; the camerated interior of the shaft is marked by a central line, 

 perhaps due to perforations in the septa, its end bears a shallow 

 oblique socket, and the very short blade, which is very seldom present, 

 is strongly hooked, striated, guarded and furnished with a marginal 

 fringe of long hairs. 



' Maxillae brown, broad, not especially acute, abruptly obUque at 

 end, each with 8-9 teeth in addition to the terminal fang, from which 

 they are separated by a short interval. Paragnatha almost obsolete; 

 maxillary ring: I, wanting; II, 2-4; III, 1; IV, 2; a very minute one 

 on each side between III and IV; basal ring represented by three small 

 teeth arranged in an arc on the ventral side; all are small, low conical 

 and brown. 



One specimen, type, north of the Aleutian Islands, 3,785, 270 fms. 

 Nereis pelagica Linn. 



Sagami Bay, 3,700, 63 fms. ; Totomi Sea, 3,729, 34 fms. 



NEPHTHYID^. 

 Nephthys brachycepliala sp. nov. 



None of the specimens is complete, the type and most perfect one 

 having 60 segments and a length of 64 mm., the maximum breadth 

 between the tips of the parapodia being 4 mm. at X. Body relatively 

 slender, not depressed, anteriorly nearly round, but venter somewhat 

 flattened; posteriorly nearly quadrate. 



Prostomium very short, twice as wide as long, deeply sunken (about 

 i of its length) in peristomium, roughly oblong, with anterior angles 

 slightly truncated, lateral margins slightly convex, anterior gently 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



concave, and posterior straight. Eyes absent. Tentacles very short, 

 the lateral slightly the larger and about j length of prostomium, both 

 pairs borne close together on the truncate lateral angles, directed 

 nearly straight forward, but slightly divergent. 



Parapodia short, especially anteriorly, the two rami widely separated, 

 least so in the middle region, where the branchiae are highly devel- 

 oped. Neuropodium and notopodimn about equally developed 

 throughout, the former directed laterad, simple, truncate, conical; 

 with slight acicular lobe and circumsetal collar, but no distinct lamellae ; 

 cirrus very short, thick, conical, arising from ventral side of neuropo- 

 dium close to base. Xotopodium directed somewhat obhquely dorsad, 

 also of simple, short, truncate, conical form, without lamellae; acicular 

 lobe well-marked and notched at end; circumsetal collar obhque, its 

 posterior portion high, the anterior very low. No dorsal cirrus, but 

 a special cirrus of short thick form on ventral side of notopodium, in 

 the branchiate segments closely connected with the external side of 

 the base of the branchial stem. 



Branchiae begin on V, as a minute process on the ventral and in- 

 ternal side of the cirrus ; this increases in size and develops dorsal and 

 ventral ^^angs, which assume the characteristic form by XV, though 

 continuing to increase in size for some segments beyond. In its typi- 

 cal development the branchia is extremely like N. phyllohranchia 

 Mcintosh, but the shape of the prostomium readily distinguishes the 

 two species; the branchia is a large wTinkled leaf -like structure, 

 through the middle of which runs a thick tapering midrib, the tip of 

 which projects shghtly, and from which vessels pass into the expanded 

 portion. When best developed it occupies most of the space between 

 the two rami. Posterior to XXXV the branchiae undergo reduction 

 until the much shortened midrib alone remains, bearing a minute 

 process, probably the cirrus, on the dorsal side of its base. 



The setae are almost entirely destroyed, but their dark-colored bases 

 remain to indicate their arrangement. Anteriorly they are disposed 

 in both rami in rings aroimd the acicula as centers, the posterior semi- 

 circle being composed of large, the anterior of small, setae which soon 

 disappear, leaving only the posterior arc in parapodia farther caudad. 

 None of the setae are complete, but enough may be seen of those of 

 the anterior semicircle to show that they are camerated and very small 

 and delicate. Nothing whatever can be determined of the characters 

 of the posterior ones. A single shghtly brownish, acutely pointed, 

 stout aciculum supports each ramus. 



Sagami Bay, 3,695, 175-190 fms. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



Nephthys ciliata (Mtiller) Rathke. 



This species was dredged in large numbers in Avatcha Bay, Kam- 

 chatka, in 12 to 15 fathoms, on a bottom of stiff green mud. A speci- 

 men from north Japan (3,775), taken in 57 fathoms from a bottom of 

 similar character, has much longer setae and larger cirri. 



EUNICID^. 

 Ennice northioidea sp. nov. (Pi. xxv, figs. 36, 37, 3S.) 



The type is in two pieces, probably representing the greater part of 

 the worm, and together including the head and 86 somites measuring 

 58 mm. in length and 3.5 mm. wide. The body is very little depressed 

 and of nearh' uniform diameter throughout the region represented, 

 the dorsum very high and convex, the venter nearly fiat, with a deep 

 neural groove. Owing to a rather strong forward tendency of the 

 anterior feet this end of the worm presents a slight resemblance to 

 Northia and its allies, which is heightened by the pearly-white color of 

 the greater part of the dorsum of VL 



Prostomium strongly retracted within peristomial fold, concealing 

 about one-half of its length, which is 1^ times the length of the peris- 

 tomium, shape about as in E. mucronata, the frontal tentacles much 

 less divergent than in E. quinquifida, their terminal joint rudimentary. 

 Eyes one pair, large, brown, below base of inner and behind outer 

 lateral tentacles. Tentacles strongly and nearly regularly beaded in 

 the terminal portion, the constrictions becoming fainter toward the 

 base. In the condition presented by this specimen the median and 

 inner lateral tentacles are subequal. the former touching A'lII, the 

 latter reaching into VH, and the outer laterals just touch lY. The 

 basal articulations of all are rather more distinct than in the other 

 species herein described. 



Peristomium with a wide free anterior fold above, its longest part 

 not lateral, as usual, but ventral, owing to the unusually large size and 

 prominence of the mandibular lobes. Second somite longest dorsally, 

 where it equals ^ the peristomium; its cirri long, slender, beaded, 

 reaching tip of head anteriorly, and to middle of VI posteriorly. 



Parapodia essentially as described for E. quinquifida, but more ven- 

 tral in position; dorsal cirri about as long as in that species, but more 

 distinctly articulated, the sense-organ moderately developed; pig- 

 mented spots at bases of both dorsal and ventral cirri. 



Branchiae begin on IV as a slender process, which by VIII nearly 

 equals the dorsal cirrus on one side, while on the other it is bifid and 

 nearly as long; they are trifid on both sides on XI, quadrifid on XV 

 28 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



and so continue, -u-ith occasional variations to three divisions, to 

 XXII on one side, and XXIII on the other, then again trifid to 

 XXVII, bifid, or occasionally trifid. to XXXII; from this point a single 

 filament, '^\-hich is at first larger than, but gradually decreases until it 

 only equals, the dorsal cirrus, continues to the posterior end of the 

 piece. Although the same bifurcate mode of brandling as in E. quin- 

 quifida occurs, the aspect of the gills is totally different; the branches 

 are thicker, stiffer and, instead of l)ending toward the middle, stand 

 erect, but the parapodia are placed so low douoi that they scarcely 

 arise above the level of the back. 



Setae fewer than in E. mucronata. generally stouter and more regu- 

 larly arranged in horizontal rows. All are colorless. 



Compound setse with shafts thickened gradually at the end for a 

 distance considerably exceeding the length of the appendix, here with 

 strongly marked oblique striations and the dorsal margin distinctly 

 denticulated over a considerable distance; appendix short, the length 

 4-6 times its width, with a well-marked subterminal constriction and 

 a bifid tip, the terminal tooth slightly hooked, the other broad, straight, 

 acute; guard broad, without mucronate tip, closely following outhne of 

 terminal tooth, be\^ond wliich it extends slightly on the dorsal side. 

 As visual the appendages are relatively longer on anterior and shorter 

 on posterior parapodia. 



Capillar}- setae about ^ longer than the compound, rather strongly 

 ciurved, and tapering only in the terminal f of the exposed portion, 

 but then to an excessively acute point. 



Spatulate or paddle-shaped setae rather more than h length of capil- 

 lary setae, by which they are concealed from above; situated caudad 

 of the acicula and ventrad of the capillary setae, tapering gently to 

 little expanded ends which have about nine points, both marginals 

 being produced, but very uneciually, the anterior one apparently always 

 the longer. 



The acicula are deep brown, practically black, in color, and opaque 

 except at the smaller ends ; the ordinary ones are two in nmiiber, sub- 

 equal, bluntly tapered, and shghtly curved at the end. In the posterior 

 somites, beginning at about XL, is a single ventral uncinate aciculum 

 of rather strongly sigmoid curvature and with a bifid hooked end. 

 They are always thickly incrusted with a reddish-ocherous deposit, 

 the removal of which destroys the guards. 



Jaws hoar}^ browTi, the thin plates yellow; maxillae stout, strongly 

 hooked and curved ventrad near the broad base, which is provided 

 with a prominent tubercle for muscular attachment ; carrier broad, not 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



constricted. Next pair of dorsal jaws triangular with the two posterior 

 angles prolonged, and the anterior angle provided with a strong, some- 

 what hooked tooth supported by a small anterior one, and succeeded 

 on the left, which is the larger of this pair of jaws, by four, and on the 

 right by three, somewhat unequal teeth, while the remaining posterior 

 third of the medial side is edentulous. The anterior group of dorsal 

 jaws includes four pieces on the right, and three on the left side ar- 

 ranged in arcs ; the most external on each side is a small toothless plate ; 

 the next bears one tooth. The next, which is the most anterior of the 

 group, is supported by a small, deep brown plate with a larger thin 

 yellow extension; on the right side it bears 8 teeth, and an internal 

 slightly serrated ridge; on the left it is much shorter, and bears but 

 6 teeth, but is supplemented by the fourth jaw plate, which fits inside 

 of its posterior end, is of an elongated crescentic form and bears about 

 12 teeth. The mandibles are remarkably prominent, the two halves 

 freely movable on each other, the whitish calcareous pieces less than ^ 

 the length of the slender yellow carrier, strongly divergent, irregularly 

 oval in form, with four ridges and as many obscurely indicated mar- 

 ginal teeth, the anterior angle prominent, almost hooked. 

 Suruga Bay, 3.718, 65 fms. 



lunice vittata Delia Chaije. 



Quite common at station 3,707 in Suruga Bay in 65-75 fms. 

 Hunice quinquifida sp. nov. (PI. XXV, figs. 39, 40, 41.) 



The single specimen representing this species is incomplete, consist- 

 ing of the head and 56 somites measuring 45 mm. long and 4 mm. be- 

 tween the tips of the parapodia. 



Prostomium about twice as "^dde as long, very deeply cleft in front 

 and the frontal tentacles so strongly divergent that in ventral view it 

 appears to be formed of two broadly pyriform halves connected at their 

 -apices by a rather narrow posterior band, terminal pieces of frontal 

 tentacles even smaller than usual. Eyes, 1 pair, large, brown, in the 

 usual position and largely concealed by the free anterior border of the 

 peristomium. Tentacles all irregularly and boldly articulated, rather 

 short, tapering; the median e\ddently imperfect, the inner lateral 

 reaching to VIII, and the outer lateral to III. Peristomium very long, 

 especially on the sides where, with its broad anterior lobes, it much ex- 

 ceeds the prostomium which it dorsally encloses as far as the bases of 

 the tentacles in a prominent fold uniting with the sides of the prosto- 

 mium below the eyes as far forward as their anterior borders. 



The second somite is very short, not more than j of the peristomium. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jlllie, 



from which it is imperfectl}' separated laterall}';, and only about ^ as 

 long as somite V; tentacular cirri tapering, rather faintly articulated 

 in the terminal half, reaching anteriorly to the cephalic margin of the 

 peristomium and posteriorly to V. Body little depressed, strongly 

 convex even in the branchial region, and with a A'ery strongly marked 

 neural groove. Length of somites, which are very distinct, increases 

 to VI, which is three times as long as II, undergoes little diminution 

 in the branchial region, but increases somewhat in the region posterior 

 to the principal branchiae. 



Parapodia similar in form and variations to E. mvcronata, but the 

 nem-opodium rather larger and the whole more prominent. The noto- 

 podial cirri are remarkable for the very large size of the basal portion, 

 which much exceeds the entire neuropodium in size in the middle re- 

 gion of the body. Notopodial cirri relatively short, about twice the 

 length of the neuropodium to which the}' are attached, scarcely reach- 

 ing half-way to the dorsimeson, tapering, faintly articulated at least 

 anteriorly, the basal sense-organ very small; a conspicuous bilobed 

 brown spot occurs just within the body at the base of the dorsal cirrus. 



Branchiffi appear suddenly as two filaments on the left side of IX 

 and 3 on the right side of X, increasing to 4 on XI, 5 on XVIII and 

 XIX, which number is maintained to XXXV and XXXVII, with an 

 occasional variation to 4, especially on the right side, then 4 and 3 to 

 XLI, and 2 for the remainder of the piece. Even when best developed 

 the branchiae of the two sides are separated by fully half the -width of 

 the back. Their aspect is very different from the branchiae of E. 

 mucronata; the stem arises in the same way and curves mediad over 

 the back, but it is angulated, and the branches, instead of arising erect, 

 dicotomose nearly regularly with it and curve parallel to it toward the 

 median line. 



The number of setae is moderate, the compound and capillary being 

 about equal and rather definitely arranged in rows. Compound setae 

 very pale yellow, rather stout, the terminal portion of the shaft thick- 

 ened for a distance of 5-6 times the ordinary diameter, with axial stri- 

 ations and marginal denticulations for a long distance; appendage rela- 

 tively short, less than the enlarged end of shaft, the tip strongly hooked 

 and prominently bifid; the guard broad, extending a short distance 

 beyond tip of appendage, striated and marginall}' denticulated. 



Capillary setae colorless, gently curved like an italic /, shghtly en- 

 larged about middle with a narrow denticulated wing, and tapering 

 to a fine point in the terminal ^. Paddle-shaped pectinate setae wider 

 than in other species of Eunice herein described, with about eleven 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



teeth, the marginal ones of which are only slightly and subeqiially pro- 

 longed. 



Acicula black and opaque ; ordinary kind two or occasionally three, 

 tapering rather suddenly to a blunt, curved tip; posterior ventral ones 

 rather strongly sigmoid, the tip hooked, bifid, with a broad, well- 

 marked, striated guard. 



All of the jaws, except the anterior lateral, which are brown, have a 

 peculiar hoary appearance. Mandibular carriers slender, about 2^ 

 times as long as the calcareous plates ; the latter roughly triangular, 

 the posterior internal angle broadly rounded, the most acute angle 

 anterior and somewhat divergent; medial side shortest, convex, with 

 a small process which joins its mate; anterior margin concave and 

 posterior convex; 2 anterior teeth besides the angle. 



Maxilkie slender, the carrier small and without a constriction. Pos- 

 terior lateral plate triangular, with a transverse joint about the middle, 

 with 5 teeth and a posterior compressed margin on the left, 6 teeth and 

 a longer toothless margin on the right. Anterior group of 2 right and 

 3 left jaws; the dorsalmost rather large, divided into 2 in each case and 

 bearing a single rather broad tooth; the second long on the right, with 

 11 fine teeth, shorter on the left, with only 5; unpaired left jaw with 

 8 teeth. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698. 153 fms. 

 Eunice mucronata sp. nov. (PI. XXV, figs. 42-45.) 



Size small, the largest entire worm having a length of 110 mm. 

 exchisive of the cephalic and caudal appendages, but other incomplete 

 specimens indicate a length up to 150 mm., and have a mdth at the 

 end of the anterior fourth of 4 mm. Form moderately slender; num- 

 ber of segments about 125. 



Prostomium slightly broader than long, the length about equal to the 

 peristomium; deeply bilobed anteriorly, the frontal tentacles prominent 

 and widely divergent below, the median sulcus deep and wide, extend- 

 ing from a point between the external paired tentacles on the dorsum 

 nearly into the mouth ventrally and posteriorly, palpal styles very 

 short, scarcely elevated above the basal lobes from which they are 

 delimited by a shallow encircling groove. Eyes 1 pair, large, purple, 

 on posterior margin of head, just ventrad of inner paired tentacles, 

 and in the preserved material partly concealed by the anterior border 

 of the peristomium. Tentacles all long, slender, tapering, and not, 

 or, only very faintly, articulated, the median reaching to XIII, the 

 inner lateral to XI, and the outer lateral, which are sometimes more 

 di.^tinctly articulated than the others, to IV or V; all are very fragile 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



and consequently often injured and imperfect; inner laterals arise just 

 dorsad of the eyes, outer laterals just cephalad. 



Peristomiimi about as long as the prostomium laterally, but else- 

 where shorter; dorsally it presents a shallow bay affording an inset 

 for the bases of the median and inner lateral tentacles, laterally a sub- 

 ocular lobe which is united with the prostomium and partly conceals 

 the eyes, and ventrally a pair of lobes which conceal the mandibles 

 and are separated from one another and from the lateral lobes by 

 emarginations. Tentacular cirri long and slender, reaching shghtly 

 beyond the anterior extremity of the palpal lobes and, when reflexed, 

 caudad to somite VII. 



The second somite is about ^ the lateral length of the peristomium, and 

 f the length of somite V, to which the lengths of the somites increase, 

 beyond which they decrease through the branchial region, and then 

 regain their maximum size, which is retained until they finally fall 

 off to the caudal end. The body as a whole is somewhat depressed, 

 most so in the branchial region, strongly convex dorsally in the pre- 

 branchial and caudal regions, but ventrally flattened throughout, with 

 a strongly marked neural groove. The two long tapering caudal cirri 

 ec^ual the last 9 segments in length. 



The first pair of parapodia are on a level with the ventral surface, 

 and succeeding ones gradually rise until the normal position about mid- 

 way between the dorsum and venter is attained by X or XI, and main- 

 tained throughout the branchial region and beyond; then they sink 

 again to the ventral level posteriorly. The typical structure is reached 

 at about the 5th or 6th parapodium. Neuropodium short, little tap- 

 ered, truncate and somewhat bilobed. Neuropodial cirri with en- 

 larged, tumid bases about equal to the neuropodia, bearing small 

 lobe-hke terminal pieces about -j as long. Notopodial cirri slender, 

 with a slight sensory sweUing on the ventral side near the base, about 

 3-4 times the length of the neuropodium and nearly long enough to 

 reach the median hne of the back. The first parapodium consists of 

 a minute setigerous lobe, a long notopodial cirrus reaching the anterior 

 border of the peristomium, and a much stouter basally swoUen neuro- 

 podial cirrus of about half this length. Toward the posterior end the 

 parapodia become more tapering in continuation of the body outlines, 

 and scarcely project from the surface; the neuropodial cirri lose the 

 basal enlargement, taper regularly, become more prominent and assmne 

 a more caudal position with relation to the foot; the notojDodial cirri 

 become relatively shorter, the extreme posterior ones being about 

 twice as long and half as thick as the ventral, and the sensory elevation 

 more prominent. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Branchiae appear and cease abruptly, occupying somites V to 

 XXX\'I, caudad of which they do not ordinarily occur. Each arises 

 in common with a notopodial cirrus from a very short base, and the 

 main stem curves gently over the back to meet its fellow of the opposite 

 side at the middle line ; the stem tapers and the erect pinnae arise from 

 it separated by intervals of h their diameter; they are of unequal 

 length, the middle ones about ecjualling the notopodial cirrus, and the 

 end of the stem bends upward as the last branch. At both ends of the 

 branchial region the number of pinnae is subject to considerable vari- 

 ation, the following figures being the average of 3 specimens upon 

 which all were counted. They appear as a small process on V which 

 elongates on ^T, become trifid on VIII, and have 4-6 branches on IX, 

 7-9 on X, 12 by XIV, 14 at X"\'III or XIX, which number is retained, 

 occasionally rising to 15, to about XXX or XXXII, and then falls 

 rapidly to 10, 7, 5 and none on successive somites. 



Typical parapodia bear setse of three kinds, all slender, delicate, and 

 colorless. First, compound setse: numerous, in a fasciculus on the 

 ventral part of the neuropodium; stems curved, with a short abruptly 

 enlarged end striated axially and serrated on one margin; appendage 

 slender, elongated (most so anteriorly), with the end weakly hooked and 

 faintly bidentate, the margin finely serrated, the guard greatly pro- 

 longed in a mucronate tip equal to ^ or more the length of the append- 

 age. Second, very slender elongated capillary setae arranged in a row 

 which extends around the dorsal and posterior sides of the fascicle 

 of compound setae; these taper gently and uniformly, and appear to 

 be nearly or Cjuite smooth. Third, paddle-shaped pectinate setse in 

 a small fascicle just dorsad of the acicula, very delicate and terminated 

 by 9 or 10 points, of which the 2 marginal ones are somewhat unequally 

 prolonged; these are very inconspicuous, being concealed by the bases 

 of the capillary setae, ^nd the flattened ends are placed horizontally. 



The ordinary acicula are pale yellow, 2 in number, 1 much stouter, 

 simple, tapering, with blunt slightly bent tips. 



Beginning with the mid-branchial region and continuing caudad 

 1 or 2 additional sigmoid uncinate acicula with guarded, hooked, trifid 

 tips appear on the ventral margin of the neuropodium. 



All jaws pale brown except the white calcareous mandibular plates. 

 Mandibular carriers broad anteriorly, but tapering rapidly to very 

 slender divergent posterior ends, about twice the length of the calcare- 

 ous plates ; the latter somewhat triangular, the angles anterior, postero- 

 medial and postero-lateral, inclined to the carrier at an angle of about 

 45°, but the anterior angle bent forward so as to lie in a longitudinal 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



plane ; besides the anterior angle a single obscure tooth al)out the mid- 

 dle of the antero-medial side. Maxillae of the usual form, the carrier 

 minute, the 2 halves together scarcely exceeding in width the base of 

 the maxillae proper, and their length only j that of the latter. Posterior 

 lateral plate triangular with unusually long median side bearing about 

 10 conspicuous sharp teeth. Two anterior right, 3 left jaws; the 1st 

 with a single tooth, the 2d with 11 right and 8 left, the 3d left with 8 

 teeth occup3dng its entire margin. 



Very common in Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms 

 Eunice gracilis sp. nov. (PI. XX V, figs. 46, 47, 48.) 



A rather slender-bodied species with parapodia of greater length than 

 usual. The type consists of 110 somites, is 49 mm. long and 4 mm. 

 tvide to the tips of the feet. 



Prostomium about equal in length to peristomium, into which it is 

 less retracted than usual, anterior sulcus not C[uite reaching to median 

 tentacle on dorsal surface, but passing into mouth ventrally. Frontal 

 tentacle prominent, divergent, terminal pieces rather larger than usual. 

 Tentacles articulated, the constrictions becoming fainter toward the 

 base; median reaches to VIII, inner laterals to VI, outer laterals 

 imperfect. Eyes wholly exposed, large, purplish-brown, in the usual 

 position. 



Peristomium rather short, longest laterally where it about equals 

 prostomium, mandibular lobe not bidentate, short, oral margin very 

 faintly furrowed and crenulate, dorsal free fold or collar short, barely 

 reaching the median tentacle, and leaving eyes fully exposed. Second 

 somite rather obscurely separated from prostomium, of which it is 

 about ^ the length. Dorsal cirri articulated, reaching to centre of 

 eyes anteriorly and ^ into somite V, posteriorly. 



Somite V, the largest in the prebranchial region, is about H times II. 

 In the branchial region all somites are shorter than in the pre- or post- 

 branchial regions. Body very little depressed, and ventral surface 

 unusually convex, with a very faint neural groove. Anus subdorsal, 

 with two very long more dorsal and posterior cirri equalling the 17 

 posterior somites, and two short more ventral and anterior ones be- 

 tween I and ^ the length of the others. 



Parapodia of the usual form and modifications, but rather longer 

 than usual, and, owing to the ventral convexity of the body, placed 

 relatively higher on the sides. The branchise resemble those of E. 

 mucronata in that the branches are erect upon a stem curving parallel 

 to the body walls, ])ut differ strikingly in that the termination of the 

 stem, instead of bending dorsad parallel to the other filaments, as in 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



that species, diverges sharply at an angle from the last one. The num- 

 ber of filaments developed on successive somites is as follows ; 1 on VI, 

 2 on IX, 3 or 4 on X, 6 on XII, 7 on XIII, 8 on XIV, 9 on XVI or XVII, 

 10 on XXII. which number continues, wdth occasional variations to 

 9 or 11, to XXX; then through 9 and 8 to 7 at XL, 3 or 4 at XLII, 2 on 

 XLV, 1 on XL VI and none from XLVIII caudad. 



Compound setse colorless, numerous, arranged irregularly with the 

 capillary setae on an area which is nearly circular on anterior and ellip- 

 tical on posterior somites, and near the dorsal border of which the 

 acicula protrude; terminal thickening of shaft short, but decided, 

 striated, dorsal margin very closely and finely denticulated; appendix 

 very short, especially on the posterior feet, where its length is scarcely 

 more than 3 times its width; tip l^ifid, the teeth widely separated; 

 guard very narrow, barely reaching beyond end of terminal tooth, its 

 edge finely denticulate. 



Capillary setse colorless, exposed for about H times length of com- 

 pound setae, nearly straight, tapering nearty regularly from base to 

 apex, dorsal margin minutely denticulated. Spatulate and pectinate 

 setae colorless, gently widened toward end, terminated by only 7 or 8 

 points, one of the marginals being much prolonged and bent at an angle 

 to the plane of the others. 



Uncini absent from the anterior parapodia, pale yellow, 2 or 3, 

 passing obliquely through the foot and protruding from the ventral 

 side of its end, 1 usually considerably larger, form sigmoid, somewhat 

 enlarged at middle, terminated by one erect tooth and a larger 

 hooked one, guard broad. 



Mandibles with the carriers broad and short, scarcely exceeding the 

 jaw plate in length; the latter large, obliquely elongate ovate, \\idely 

 divergent, with 3 ridges and teeth besides the prominent but rather 

 blunt terminal ones. Maxillae stout, strongly hooked, vdth short, 

 broad , unconstricted carriers. Posterior dorsal jaws triangular, toothed 

 along almost the entire medial margin, the left larger, with eight coarse 

 teeth, the right with 7 diminishing in size caudad. Two anterior 

 dorsal jaws on right, 3 on left side; the first minute with 1 tooth; the 

 next strongly curved, with a very broad thin plate, and 11 or 12 teeth 

 on each side; the asymmetrical left plate with 13 teeth. 



Totomi Sea, 3,730, 34 fms. 

 Eunice medicina sp. nov. (PI. XX V, figs. 49, 50, 51.) 



The t3^pe, which is entire, but somewhat contracted, consists of 82 

 somites and measures 32 mm. in length and 1.5 mm. in greatest breadth. 

 It is probably immature. A second incomplete example is somewhat 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OF [June, 



larger, ha%'ing a length of 28 mm. for 54 anterior somites, and a maxi- 

 mum breadth of 2 mm. The posterior parapodia contain spermatozoa. 



Prostomimii of form usual in the genus, slightly longer than peri- 

 stomium; ventral furrow not especially deep and lobe not widely 

 divergent ; frontal tentacles occupying entire ventral end of lobes and 

 bomided by completely encircling furrows. Eyes 1 pair, bro'^Ti, near 

 posterior margin of head, directly below and in contact with base of 

 inner lateral tentacles, not at all concealed by cephalic fold of peri- 

 stomium. Tentacles relatively short, only very faintly articulated, 

 the median lost in both specimens; inner lateral of seven joints and 

 reaching to posterior end of somite VI; outer lateral of 4 or 5 joints 

 and reaching to III. Peristomiiun distinct, of equal length all 

 around and slightly less than prostomium, \nth. which it is not fused 

 laterally. 



Second somite about ^ length of peristomium, distinct, nuchal 

 (tentacular) cirri slender, very faintly articulated and reaching ante- 

 riorly to base of inner lateral tentacle, or posteriorly to the middle of 

 IV. As usual the somites in the region of greatest branchial develop- 

 ment are shorter and more crowded than either anterior or posterior 

 to this region. The last 8 or 9 somites taper rapidly to the anal ring, 

 wliich is slightly enlarged. Caudal cirri 2 pairs, the hinder very 

 slender and deUcate, equalling 11 last somites, the short one scarcely 

 equal to the width of the anal ring. 



Except for their somewhat greater prominence and the pecuharities 

 of the 2ieuropodial cirri, the parapodia have the characters usual in 

 the genus. The tenth parapodium has the neuropodium roughly 

 square in form, with the suprasetal portion more vescicular, tumid and 

 enlarged than usual in small species, the acicular lobe between the dor- 

 sal end of the series of compoimd setse, and the fascicle of capillary setae 

 prominent. The very characteristic neuropodial cirrus has an en- 

 larged basin-shaped swollen base, the hollow of which looks ventro- 

 laterad, while the terminal process is a thick, short, rounded process 

 of its dorso-lateral margin, the whole, in certain ^^ews, ha^^ng a striking 

 resemblance to a mortar and pestle. Xotopodial cirrus separated by 

 an interval from the neuropodium, double its length, the basal half 

 shghth^ swollen and receiving into its root the ends of 2 slender curved 

 acicula, the terminal half slender and obscurely articulated. 



Toward the anterior end the neuropodium is reduced in size, the 

 depression in the base of the neuropodial cirrus is lost, and the base 

 becomes first spherical and finally cylindrical, the notopodial cirrus 

 approaches the neuropodium, becomes relatively longer, with a more 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



swollen proximal and more distinctly articulated distal portion. The 

 extreme of these changes is exhibited by the 1st parapodiimi, in which 

 both cirri are connate with the base of the neuropodium, than which 

 the neuropodial cirrus is twice, and the notopodial cirrus 3^ times as 

 long, the base of the former being cylindrical and t\^^ce the length of 

 the terminal piece, while the notopodial cirrus has the proximal end 

 much swollen, and the distal divided into 3 short joints. The second 

 parapodium differs from the first almost solely in the larger size of the 

 neuropodium. 



With the gradual reduction in size of the neuropodial cirri toward 

 the posterior end of the branchial region the basin-like form of the 

 ceratophore is gradually lost, and the whole parapodium assumes the 

 form pecuhar to the posterior half of the body. The acicular lobe of 

 the neuropodium is so reduced in size that the ends of the acicula 

 project conspicuously beyond it. Still farther caudad the parapodia 

 become more pointed, their outlines nearly continuous with the dorsal 

 and ventral curvatures of the body and the two cirri of approximately 

 equal length. The neuropodial cirri are stouter and more closely 

 united to the neuropodium, the notopodial still retain slightly enlarged 

 bases, but all appearance of articulation has gone. 



The branchiae are pinnate, the stem arising at right angle from the 

 base of the notopodial cirrus and curving parallel with the back toward 

 but not reaching the middle Une; the stiff, erect branches arise at regu- 

 lar intervals of about twice their own diameter, are subequal in length, 

 shorter and more slender than the cirrus, and the end of the main stem 

 bends upward as the last pinna. 



The following table shows the distribution of the branchiae and the 

 somites on which occur changes in the number of pinnae on the right 

 and left sides of both specimens : 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June. 



Compound setae occur in all parapodia ; colorless, the stem curved, its 

 end enlarged very gradually to a maximum of t'wice the ordinary diam- 

 eter, the thickened part Tvdth obhcjue axial striations and a finely den- 

 ticulated convex margin; appendix a relatively slender blade, the 

 greatest width 1^ times the diameter of the stem and its length about 

 5 J times the width (middle of 10th parapodium), terminal teeth prom- 

 inent, well separated, moderately hooked, edge of blade finely serrate, 

 guard prolonged beyond body of blade as a sharp spine about 

 equalling in length the width of the blade. 



Capillary setae are also found as a fascicle in the dorso-posterior part 

 of each neuropodium ; they project two or three times as far as the 

 compound setae, are colorless, straight or gently curved, the terminal 

 half very finely acuminate and the surface feebly granulate. Paddle- 

 shaped pectinate setae appear to be absent from the first parapodium, 

 but occur on all the others in very limited number at the base of the 

 bundle of capillary setae ; the end is curved in half-round form, is rela- 

 tively narrow, 3 to 4 times the diameter of the stem, with about twelve 

 slender, straight points of even length and one delicate prolonged mar- 

 ginal process. 



Both neuropodial and notopodial acicula are present in all of the 

 parapodia; the latter are always 2 in number, ver}' slender, tapering 

 and with rather abruptly curved ends which terminate just opposite 

 the apex of the angle between the notopodial cirrus and its branchia. 

 The ordinary neuropodials are also 2 in number and enter the acicular 

 lobe, beyond which their blunt, straight, or (posteriorly) bent ends 

 project, most prominently posteriorly. The /-shaped, hooked acicula 

 are first detected on somite XXI. A single one (rarely 2) passes ob- 

 liquely through each neuropodium, appearing at the ventro-lateral 

 angle. They are stout, pale yellow, rather strongly curved and hooked, 

 the principal beak-shaped process looking forward and surmounted by 

 an unequally bifid accessory process, the smaller division of which is 

 sometimes minute or even absent; guard wide, slightly bilobed and 

 striate. 



The color has been entirely lost except the brown spots at the bases 

 of the notopodial setae. The cuticle is only slightly iridescent, most 

 so on the head. 



Saganii Bay, 3,700, 63 fms.. type; Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms. 



ONUPHIDJE. 

 Hyalinoecia tubicola (Miiller) Mgrn. 



What should perhaps be designated as a distinct variety of this spe- 

 cies occurs throughout the entire region of Suruga Bay and Totomi 

 8ea. in from 63 to 167 fathoms. 3,707, 3,715, 3,737, 3,740. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



Northia macrobrancliiata Mcintosh. 



This species was dredged by the "Albatross" south of Yedo, Japan, 

 on a bottom of green mud, in 345 fathoms. The species is evidently 

 quite common and widely distributed throughout Sagami and Suruga 

 Bays and the Totomi Sea in depths from 31 fathoms at station 3,703 

 to 749 fathoms at 3,696. A few specimens occur in the collections 

 from each of the following additional stations, 3,704, 3,707, 3,715, and 

 3,740. At 3,696 a number of the peculiar tubes of this species were 

 procured. It is surprising to find them covered at a depth of 749 

 fathoms with bits of wood, pine twigs and needles, leaves, straw, etc. 

 The only entire specimen in the collection comes from station 3,704, 

 and permits the description of the posterior end, hitherto unknown. 

 The branchiae continue to the 2d preanal somite, on which they still 

 equal the foot in length, are c^uite thick, and bear the notopodial 

 cirrus as a minute process, of not more than ^ their diameter, on the 

 external side of their base. Anal cirri 2, very dehcate and slender, 

 equalling the length of the last 7 somites. 



Northia geophiliformis sp. nov. (Pi. XXV, figs. 57, 58, 59.) 



Upon a cursory examination this species presents a striking general 

 resemblance to Geophilus or other slender Chilopod, a similarity which 

 is enhanced by the regular alternation of reddish-brown and pale bands 

 across the dorsum. 



The form is slender, elongated, slightly depressed and linear, but just 

 perceptibly tapering from the anterior fourth posteriorly, the hinder 

 body region becoming at the same time more rounded. None of the 

 numerous specimens is complete, more or less of the caudal end being 

 deficient in each case, but a separate caudal end of 44 somites was found. 

 The type specimen has a length of 5.7 mm. for the anterior 109 somites 

 and a maximum width between the tips of the anterior parapodia of 

 2 mm. 



Prostomium small, narrow^, inconspicuous, scarcely more than a 

 common meeting place for its conspicuous appendages, and closely 

 united with the peristomium. No trace of eyes can be detected. 

 Frontal tentacles prominent, rather slender, fully as long as prosto- 

 mium, ovate-oblong in outline, but circular in section, attached by 

 contiguous constricted bases and strongly divergent. Palpi also prom- 

 inent, about twice the size of frontal tentacles and projecting almost 

 horizontally outward from sides of dorsum of mouth. Dorsal append- 

 ages of prostomium large and conspicuous with remarkably long annu- 

 lated basal pieces, and, except the outer lateral, long, slender, whip- 

 like styles, which are very fragile and usually detached or injured; 




446 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



median tentacle distinctly smaller than inner laterals, its tip reaching 

 only to ^'III. while the inner laterals reach to XI, its base constantly 

 only f that of inner laterals, of 6 narrow rings and terminal ^ not annu- 

 lated, while that of the inner lateral has 9 rings and a terminal smooth 

 portion; outer laterals in the same transverse line with inner laterals, 

 occup3'ing nearly the position in which eyes are ordinarily present, 

 usually perfect, short, reaching, when reflexed, to IV only, remark- 

 able for the great length of l^asal piece, which equals, or even exceeds 

 the style, and consists of 11 annulations, decreasing in size and dis- 

 tinctness toward the end; style short, relativel}^ stout, undivided, 

 but sometimes bearing a terminal filament. 



The buccal ring is probably compounded of the peristomium and 

 the succeeding somite, the posterior bearing the tentacidar cirri and 

 the anterior the so-called palpi wath which it is cormected ; longer than 

 prostomimii, ventral and lateral oral lobes prominent. Tentacular 

 cirri slender and rather long, reacliing to the tips of the frontal tenta- 

 cles, bases with 2 or 3 obscure annuli but no distinct segments. 



First 4 setigerous somites sharply distinguished from the others b}^ 

 their length, which causes the parapodia to stand widely apart instead 

 of being crowded, as well as by the length and slenderness of the cirri- 

 form processes of the parapodia ; first much the longest and anteriorly 

 the widest, the succeeding three becoming successively shorter and the 

 margins rounded, thus gradually approaching the typical form, which 

 is short, vdde and depressed, -udth dorsal and ventral surfaces nearly 

 flat. 



Anal segment prominent and somewhat funnelform, wdth 2 pairs of 

 crowded, long, slender caudal cirri, the more posterior equal to 13, the 

 other to 10 terminal somites. 



First 4 parapodia arise at a low level from the anterior ends of their 

 somites; except the first, which is directed shghtly forward, they pro- 

 ject almost straight laterad. Body of parapodia simple, relatively 

 slender, and about equalling length of somite to w^hich it is attached; 

 bearing 3 long slender tapering cirri, the dorsal longest, the middle, 

 which continues the neuropodium as a postsetal process, next, and the 

 ventral shortest, the latter also attached nearest to base of parapo- 

 dium ; both dorsal and ventral cirri slightly constricted at base, then 

 a little swollen, then regularly tapering and slender. Fifth parapo- 

 dium more dorsad, the base and neuropodium smaller, ventral cirrus 

 reduced to a short, thick glandular lobe, its postsetal lobe shorter and 

 little cirriform; it bears the first branchia. On succeeding somites 

 the daiidular area into which the ventral cirrus becomes converted 




1903.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



crowds the much reduced parapodium dorsad, until by XV it is directed 

 upward and quite imdsible from below^, but a reverse change sets in by 

 XXX, and, with the final disappearance of the glandular area, the 

 parapodia again become quite lateral in the posterior half of the 

 body. By XV also the postsetal lobe has become a small inconspi- 

 cuous process, but the dorsal cirri, although somewhat reduced, re- 

 main always prominent. 



Branchise prominent but simple, arising from a common base with the 

 dorsal cirri, and when fully established appearing as the direct continu- 

 ation of that base, of which the cirrus has more the aspect of a lateral 

 branch; they are erect and long enough to just reach middle line of 

 back when best developed. Sometimes they are foreshadowed by a 

 bifurcation of the dorsal cirrus of the 4th parapodium, but normally 

 appear abruptly on the 5th as a slender filament eciualling the cirrus in 

 length, but quickly increase to a considerably greater length, and con- 

 tinue wdth no change except a shght decrease in size as far at least 

 as the 110th setigerous somite. As the posterior 44 somites show no 

 trace of branchiae it is evident that this species must reach a length 

 quite remarkable for the genus. 



With the exception of the posterior hooked acicula, which are rela- 

 tively stout and pale yellow, the setae are deUcate and colorless. Com- 

 pound hooked setae are confined to the first 3 parapodia in all the speci- 

 mens examined with reference to this point, and, with the exception of 

 2 or 3 slender pointed dorsal setae, are the only kind present in the first 

 parapodium; end piece with 3 processes, the terminal one longest; 

 guard prolonged into an acute tip which reaches far beyond the body 

 of the seta. 



Slender, capillary setae are present in all the parapodia, but in small 

 number in the first 3, while from the 4th to about the 10th they are 

 the only kind occurring, and are somewhat larger, with more evident 

 serrate wings. Parapodia of the middle region each bear a tuft of 

 such setae projecting from the dorsmn of the foot in a strongly dorso- 

 lateral direction above the hooked uncina. 



Paddle-shaped setae are first detected on the 10th parapodium, on 

 which 1 appears, while posteriorly 4 or 5 occur between the capillary 

 setae and the hooked aciculum. They are very delicate and easily over- 

 looked, with slender, somewhat curved stems and obliquel}' truncate, 

 slightly curved terminal blades bearing about 16 delicate spines, and 

 marked with as many converging striae. 



In addition to the ordinary acicula, each neuropodium, beginning at 

 about the 10th or 12th, is provided with 2 pale yellow uncina with 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



longitudinally striated stem and bifid guarded tip, the promimal pro- 

 cess being much the larger and the guard broad, closefitting and 

 dehcately striated. 



Color fairly well preserved; each segment of the anterior region 

 marked with a posterior, broader, reddish-brown band, which spreads 

 over the entire segment laterally, and an anterior whitish or pale yellow 

 one; head generally reddish, with a median anterior dark area; dark 

 pigment cells also in the cephalic appendages and branchiae; other 

 appendages, ventral surface and entire posterior region unpigmented; 

 cuticle with a brilhant greenish iridescense. 



Tube dehcate, mucoid, covered with fuie silt. 



North of Sendai Bay, 3,771 , 62 fms. Type and numerous other speci- 

 mens. Also Sagami Bay. 3.695. 175-191 fms.; 3,698, 153 fms. 



PARANORTHIA gen. nov. 



lnteTm.e(iiSLtehetv:een North ia and RhayyiphohrachiKm. Two pairs of 

 parapodia are prolonged and carried forward on the ventral side of 

 the head as in Rhamphobrachium, but their setse are coarse acicula 

 as in Northia, not capillary as in Rhamphohrachium. 

 Paranorthia brevicornuta sp. nov. (PI. XXV. figs. 52-56.) 



A small species represented by an incomplete specimen of 62 somites, 

 having a length of 22 mm. and a maximum width between the tips of 

 parapodia of 1.25 mm. 



Prostomium, as seen from above in the slightly bent up attitude of 

 the specimen, nearly circular, but slightly and broadly emarginate 

 behind, frontal surface smooth, regularly rounded. Eyes absent. Ten- 

 tacles all in anterior half of prostomium, the paired in advance of the 

 median, and the outer lateral well down on sides below level of frontal 

 tentacles ; basal pieces of median tentacles shorter than those of lateral, 

 which are as long as ^ width of head; terminal pieces of median and 

 inner lateral subequal, subulate, their length about 1^ width of head ; 

 outer lateral shorter, equalling width of head, stouter and blunt. 

 Frontal tentacles globoid, their constricted bases in contact on anterior 

 margin of head. Palpi bean-shaped, length equal to style of outer 

 lateral tentacle. Peristomimn distinct, about ^ length of prostomium 

 on the dorsmii, longer ventrally, where, as well as laterally, it is 

 croW'ded forward by the following somites and, with the prosto- 

 mium, is bent somewhat dorsad. Tentacular cirri small, awl-shaped, 

 about equalling peristomimn in length. 



The first two pairs of parapodia are enlarged and l)ent forw-ard be- 

 neath the head as in Rhamphohrachium, but they are less produced, 

 and the third pair is not similarly modified as in that'genus. The fij-st 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



reaches the level of the anterior margm of the head, and the second 

 as far as the base of the median tentacle, the total length of the second 

 being somewhat greater. Each is subcj^lindrical, about 3 times as 

 long as thick, truncate, with short presetal and postsetal lobes, the 

 latter somewhat longer and deeper, and a small papilla-like lobe on 

 the ventro-distal angle. Dorsal cirri arise from the middle of the 

 dorsal surface by a slightly constricted base and then bend outward 

 and extend stiffly nearly parallel to the neuropodium or even approach 

 it and reach somewhat be^'ond its tip. Ventral cirri also arise bv a 

 constricted pigmented base, beyond which they have the form of a 

 spruce cone and extend toward the middle ventral Mne, which they 

 nearly reach owing to the approximation of the parapodia; the first 

 arises nearly opposite to the dorsal cirrus, the second near the base 

 of the foot. 



The third and all succeeding parapodia are lateral in position and 

 gradually attain a liigher plane; they are smaller and project straight 

 outward. On the third the nem-opodial cirrus is much shorter, broad 

 oval in outline, and on succeeding parapodia becomes a mere opacjue 

 romided lobe, which gradually becomes less and less prominent and 

 disappears at about XXX. 



The tenth foot is typical. It consists of a short truncate neuro- 

 podimn with a small presetal lobe, a tapering bent notopodial cirrus of 

 about twice its length, and the reduced neuropodial cirrus. The pos- 

 terior parapodia are further reduced, but, owing to the very poor 

 preservation of this region, cannot be accurately described. 



Branchiae appear on somite X as a single thick filament rising from 

 the dorsal side of the notojDodial cirrus; the branchia is double the 

 length of the cirrus in succeeding somites, becoming bifid on XXIII 

 and thence backward rising erect as two equal divisions twice as long 

 as the cirrus. The posterior end is much macerated, but on the last 

 12 or 15 somites the branchiae appear to consist of single filaments of 

 undiminished length. 



On a A'ery large number of parapodia the setae are destroyed, but 

 enough remain to permit the description of their general character 

 and distribution. The first two enlarged parapodia each bear 3 large 

 setae or acicula, but unfortunately the tips of all have been broken 

 off. Succeeding somites exhibit compoimd, capillary and paddle- 

 shaped setae, all of which are colorless. 



Compound setae of two forms, the first of w^hich appears to be con- 

 fined to a group of about half-a-dozen in the ventral part of the third 

 parapodiimi ; they have the end of the shaft rather abruptly enlarged 

 29 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlUie, 



on both sides for a short distance, margin of socket tipped b}' a rather 

 long process, proximad to which are a few rather conspicuous teeth; 

 blade relatively short and broad, strongh' hooked and bifid at the end 

 with a guard somewhat produced at the apex. In addition to these 

 all of the anterior parapodia, from the third at least to the fifteenth, 

 bear in the middle and ventral part of the neuropodium a number of 

 compound setae without guards; these are more numerous anteriorly 

 than posteriorly; the shafts have nearly the same form as the guarded 

 setae, but the l^lades are straight or only slightl}' curved, rather broad 

 proximally, but with slender mucronate tips and obliquely striated 

 with one or both margins finely serrate; the blades vary greatly in 

 length, those in the dorsal part of a bundle being more than twice as 

 long as the most ventral ones in the anterior jjarapodia, while pos- 

 teriorly only the short ones remain. No compound setae occm- in the 

 most posterior region, but just where they cease cannot be accurately 

 determined. 



Capillary setae are the most numerous and constant, occurring in all 

 parapodia from the third caudad. They differ considerably in length, 

 those dorsad of the aciculum being the longest and the stoutest as well, 

 those ventrad, which replace the compound setae as they disappear, 

 retain about the length of the latter. Toward the extreme posterior 

 end they appear to diminish both in number and size. All are slender, 

 tapering, very acutely pointed with a narrow smooth-edged wing, at the 

 beginning of which a more or less pronounced bend occurs. 



Paddle-shaped setae are also found in the extreme dorsal part of 

 some of the anterior somites, but their distribution has not been ascer- 

 tained. They have very slender shafts, wide, suddenly expanded, 

 asymmetrical, curved ends provided with about 20 very fine points of 

 equal length. 



All of the acicula are very pale yellow. Besides the projecting 

 acicula or setae, the first two parapodia exhibit several (perhaps about 

 10, though the number cannot be certainly determined) long thread- 

 like internal acicula of constant thickness arranged parallel to one an- 

 other in a regular coil within the foot, those of the first being especially 

 long and forming an additional snarl near the base of its ventral side. 

 Notopodial acicula also appear, those of the first 2 feet being rather 

 strong, straight and stiff and ending in the base of the cirri ; in the 

 remaining parapodia they are delicate fibres passing far into the cirri. 

 The ordinary neuropodial acicula are 3 in number, the dorsalmost very 

 stout, all straight and tapering, with the slightly protruding point 

 blunt or slightly enlarged and sometimes a little curved. Guarded aci- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



cula have been detected in the ventral part of the neuropndiiim as far 

 forward as the eleventh foot. Usually two occur, and they are slender, 

 not exceeding the larger compoiuid setae in diameter, nearly straight, 

 slightly enlarged below the tip, which is bifid and provided with a 

 broad guard. 



Suruga Bay. 3.713, 45 fms. 

 Onuphus cirrobranchiata sp. nov. (PI. XXV, figs. 63-63.) 



A rather small species, the type of which consists of 59 setigerous 

 somites, and measures 42 mm. long, with a width of body at somite X 

 of 2.3 mm., and a maximum distance between the tips of the parapodia 

 at the same place of 5.2 mm. 



Prostomium small, about semicircular from above, the length al)out 

 equalling the peristomium at the sides. Eyes, 1 pair, reddish-brown, 

 circular, entirely exposed; frontal tentacles prominent, rounded, 

 length ^ length of prostomium, strongly divergent, directed forward, 

 downward and outward. Tentacles with short articulated bases, which 

 are little longer than thick and about equal frontal tentacles in size , 

 each of 2-4 rings; styles slightl}^ enlarged at base, long, slender, 

 smooth, entirely non-articulate; median longest, reaching somite 

 XIV, inner lateral XI, and outer lateral IV. Palpi short, thick, promi- 

 nent, shghtly bilobed, strongly divergent from ventral surface of head, 

 and connected with ventral margins of lateral peristomial lobes by a 

 pair of ridges. 



Peristomimn (which probably consists of two coalesced somites, the 

 first very small and anterior to peristomial cirri) longest laterally, there 

 equalhng the prostomimn ; cirri directly in fine with eyes and far for- 

 ward, slender, tapering, short, scarcely reaching anterior boundary 

 of prostomium, and posteriorly to middle of somite III. 



Somite III (next to the peristomium) is nearly equal in length to 

 the prostomiimi and peristomium combined or to somites IV and V, 

 anterior margin much wider than posterior and projecting considerably 

 beyond any other anterior somite. Remaining somites well defined, 

 and of about equal size until the tapering posterior region is reached. 

 Body rounded, very little depressed, most so in the middle region when 

 distended with eggs, dorsum high and arched, venter flattened. Anus 

 terminal, the anal somite trmicate and slightly crenulate ; caudal cirri 

 very long and slender, equalling the last 16 or 17 somites. 



Enlarged first pair of joarapodia very prominent, nearly equalling 

 their somite in length, and projecting strongly forward by the sides of 

 the head, and shghtly outward and downward ; form simple, postsetal 

 lobe elongated, reaching slightly beyond tip of slender dorsal cirrus 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlUie, 



which arises from middle of foot, ventral cirrus shorter, arising from base 

 of foot and ending opposite root of dorsal cirrus. 



All other parapodia are much smaller, but the 2d and 3d project 

 slightly forward, and are somewhat transitional in other respects also ; 

 dorsal cirri and postsetal lobes increase in length and become slender 

 and tapering, reaching their maximum by XI or XII, when the latter 

 is fully equal to the body of the foot, and the former is 3 times as long 

 and capable of reaching the dorsal mid-hne, though habitually carried 

 outward and backward; beyond this region they decrease in length, 

 the postsetal lobe retaining its slender form, but becoming of insignifi- 

 cant size by the middle of the body, while the dorsal cirrus reaches as 

 far as the tips of the setae. The \-entral cirrus diminishes in size rapidly ; 

 on the 2d and 3d it remains as a short thick cirrus, by the 4th it is a 

 low dome-shaped opaque whitish lobe below, and distinctly separated 

 from, the foot ; posterior to XII it diminishes, and has practically dis- 

 appeared by XAnil. 



The branchise are characteristic. They usually begin as a single 

 filament, or occasionall}' two, on XIII or XIV, arising with the dorsal 

 cirrus from a common base, and dorsad of the latter; this quickly 

 becomes subdivided quite to the base, wliich shifts its position to the 

 caudal side of the cirrus. The division into 2, 3 and 4 filaments takes 

 place somewhat irregularly, but each filament attains practically 

 its fuU length immediately; by XVIII or XX the typical number of 5 

 is reached, and continues, with occasional variations to 6, to about 

 XXXV, when 4 again becomes the predominant number to about 

 XL VIII, beyond which it further diminishes; somites LVI to LVIII 

 bear only small but distinct branchial tubercles, and LIX, the last 

 segment bearing parapodia, has none. Some variation in the number 

 of filaments occurring on somites toward the ends of the series is notice- 

 able. The filaments of which the branchiae are composed are very 

 dehcate and, as their wrinkled condition indicates, very contractile; 

 they are generally about | as long as the dorsal cirri, but probably 

 equal or exceed these in life, are deeply cleft and arise in a cluster, 

 though occasionally a more pectinate arrangement is indicated. 



Setae of four kinds, two being coarse uncini. Compound uncini 

 confined to the first 4 parapodia, yellow, stout; appendix curved, bifid, 

 the terminal process large and hooked, the accessory one much smaller, 

 both included in the delicate double truncated guard. This is the only 

 form of seta in the first foot, in which some of them become very large 

 and, in one example, lose the articulation, though this is present in 

 the type specimen; the}^ become successively smaller on the 2d, 3d 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



and 4th parapodia. in which they he just ventrad of the other setae 

 and next to the postsetal lobe. 



Beginning with the 5th parapodium, simple uncini replace the com- 

 pound ones just described, though they are only fully estabhshed sev- 

 eral somites further caudad, and are usually two in number throughout 

 the anterior branchial region, but may be 3, or even 4, toward the 

 posterior end. They are yeUow, stout, nearly straight or shghtly bent 

 back (this direction being opposite to the compoimd uncini), shghtly 

 swollen subterminaUy, the end bifid ^^ith two stout, ventrally 

 directed processes, of which the proximal is the larger; guard ob- 

 liquely fan-shaped and striated; stem rather coarsely striated, which 

 is not the case with the compound uncini. 



Slender, pointed setae occur in all of the parapodia except the first, 

 arranged in typical somites in two horizontal rows above and below 

 the uncini, the dorsal one being larger. These are the only setse of 

 sufficient length to reach beyond the postsetal lobe, and anteriorly 

 even these do not. Stems much slenderer than the uncini, only the 

 larger ones exhibiting any color, bent dorsad abruptly but shghtly at 

 about the middle of the exposed portion; a reverse but more gentle 

 bend in the opposite direction, bringing the terminal part into a direc- 

 tion parallel to the base, occurs in the setae of the posterior half of the 

 body; flange always on ventral side, widest at angle of seta, disappear- 

 ing terminally, leaving an acute very brittle point; both stem and 

 flange obliquely striated. On the 4th parapodium the flanged setae 

 are smaUer and fewer ; on the 3d and 2d only the dorsal bundle occurs, 

 reduced on the latter to 2 or 3 very small, acute, scarcely winged, color- 

 less setae. Posteriorly also the winged portion becomes reduced in 

 length. 



The 4th kind of seta is the most numerously represented but the least 

 conspicuous of any; a single one appears in the dorsal bundle of the 

 2d parapodium, but in all succeeding parapodia a close bundle of 

 many occius between the postsetal process and the dorsal fascicle of 

 flanged setae. They are of very imequal length, the longest being on 

 the posterior side, but none equal ^ the length of the flanged setae. 

 They have slender stems terminated by a delicate funnel-shaped 

 enlargement with a crenulated or toothed margin. 



Sagami Bay, 3.698, 153 fms.; 3.704, 94 fms.; 3,707, 63-75 fms.; 

 Suruga Bay, 3,738, 167 fms., type. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jlllie; 



LUMBRICONEREID^. 

 Lumbriconereis heteropoda v. Marenz. 



This species and L. hifurcata Mcintosh are very closely allied, if not 

 identical; some of the examples contained in the present collection 

 are so nearly intermediate between the two that difficulty was found 

 in referring them. As a whole the series is most closely connected 

 with L. heteropoda, which is also the prior name. It is the most abundant 

 and \\adely distributed species contained in the collections, occurring 

 at aU localities on the coast of Japan at which dredging was done, 

 though in many cases represented by fragments only, and at depths 

 from 36 to 190 fathoms. It was taken at the following stations: 

 3,695, 3,698, 3,703, 3,707, 3,714, 3,724, 3,735, 3,738, 3,739, 3,740 and 

 3,755. 

 Lumbriconereis japonica v. Marenz. 



Sagami Bay, 3.698, 153 fms.; Sm-uga Bay, 3,717, 100 fms.; 3,718, 

 65 fms.; 3,736, 480 fms. 

 Laranda robusta sp. nov. (PI. XXVI. figs. 64, 65.) 



This is evidently a species of large size. The incomplete type speci- 

 men has a Tvddth of 6.5 mm., and a length of 165 mm. for the head and 

 anterior 202 somites, and a smaller example of less than ^ the diameter 

 of the type, consisting of upward of 400 somites, of which the posterior 

 100 or so have been recently regenerated, measures 210 mm. 



The prostomium has a peculiar flattened form, curved and hoUowed 

 below hke the bowl of a spoon ; the outline from above hss the form of 

 a haycock with a broad base ; in the larger specimens its length is less 

 than the first 3 somites, in the smaller one considerably greater; in 

 both it has a distinct dorsal longitudinal sulcus, and is slightly dove- 

 tailed into the peristomium. No eyes visible. 



The peristomium and the next segment are nearly identical in form, 

 the former differing only in its relation to the mouth and prostomium, 

 and in the more strongly marked postoral grooves ; both are very dis- 

 tinctly marked, and are shorter than the first setigerous somite. 



The body is nearly circular in section throughout, the dorsum 

 sMghtly more convex than the venter, with the parapoelia somewhat 

 below the middle lateral line, especially toward the posterior end. The 

 diameter is remarkably uniform, with a shght increase toward the 

 middle, and a sudden diminution in the last 7 or 8 mm. of the small 

 specimen. All of the segments are very chstinctly marked and of 

 equal length for at least f of the length. No anal cirri are present. 



The parapodia are uniform in character throughout; in the middle 

 of the body, where they reach the largest size they about equal the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



length of the somite, are stout, not tapered, obhquely truncate, and 

 bear a single blunt, conical postsetal process which arises from the 

 ventro-lateral angle and is directed outward and slighth' caudad; a 

 low welt passes around its base anteriorty. 



The setae are arranged in each foot in a simple curved rank between 

 the postsetal process and the presetal welt. In the anterior parapodia 

 only slender setae occur, and are arranged in two somewhat divergent 

 groups, of which the ventral includes 4 or 5, the dorsal 8-12. All are 

 pale brown, long, slender, simple, sharp-pointed and wingless, with a 

 gentle sigmoid cm-ve. After about the first 20 somites the setae of the 

 dorsal bundle become stouter and of a deeper color. More posteriorly, 

 in the type at XXVI on one side, XXVII on the other, a single stout 

 aciculum appears with its end projecting at the ventral end of the 

 series. It has much the form of a blunt pointed lead pencil and is 

 of a deep brown color. 



The color is an iridescent purplish-brown with dark brown spots 

 above the bases of the parapodia, which tend to spread toward the 

 median line as incomplete narrow zones on each somite. 



Type, Suruga Bay, 3,709, 173 to 260 fms.; also Suruga Bay, 3,737, 

 3,738, 3,739, 65 to 167 fms. 

 Notocirrus zonata sp. nov. (PI. XXVI, figs. 66, 67.) 



A piece of the posterior end consisting of upward of 120 somites, 

 and representing probably nearly ^ of the animal. It measures 65 mm. 

 long and 3 mm. -^dde including the parapodia, but not the setae. The 

 body is nearly circular and tapers toward the anus, which is guarded 

 by a pair of short broad lateral lobes representing a pair of cirri or per- 

 haps two pairs coalesced. 



The parapodia are described from the most anterior somite present; 

 they are situated about twice as far from the dorsal as from the ventral 

 middle line, are rather small and slender, with a prominent posterior 

 ventral process, which is somewhat longer than the rest of the foot, and 

 is directed caudad and laterad. Dorsal papilla small but prominent. 



Setae 5, 2 in dorsal, 3 in ventral bundle, colorless or nearly so,with deli- 

 cate, tapering and winged tips, and sigmoid with the ends directed dor- 

 sad; those of the ventral bundle shorter and only slightly bent; of 

 the dorsal geniculate, the ventralmost, sometimes both of this bundle, 

 strongly serrated at the •uinged knee. 



The color is very striking; the ground, including the parapodia. is 

 pale 5'ellow, the middle of each somite completely encircled by a rich 

 orange-brown zone. 



Type only, Totomi Sea, 3,729, 34 fms. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [June, 



Ninoe palmata sp. uov. (PI. XXVI, figs. 6S-71.) 



Represented by 98 anterior somites. ha\'ing a length of 34 mm. and 

 a width of 2.5 mm. at somite XX. 



Prostomium of the form of a depressed convex cone with a rather 

 acute apex, length 1^ tim.es the base and about thrice length of peristo- 

 miima, dovetailed ^ into peristomium on dorsal side, delicate lateral 

 grooves from palpi to apex. No eyes \'isible. Palpi large, free lobes 

 at sides of mouth and dorsad of it. Peristomium longest at sides of 

 head, to which and to the succeeding somite it is partly united laterally; 

 ventrally produced into 3 lobes bounding the mouth laterally and pos- 

 teriorly. 



Somite II distinct, except where miited with the peristomium ventro- 

 laterally, length about f peristomium ; it bears no parapodium. Suc- 

 ceeding somites very distinct, outlines roimded and regular and of 

 nearly equal length throughout. Body exactly circular, although 

 the presence of the branchiae give to it a somewhat depressed aspect. 



Parapodia appear on II, short, about equal to length of somites from 

 which they arise, the branchiate ones somewhat exceeding this, promi- 

 nent, sloping shghtly forward, outhne nearly straight to the broadly 

 roimded or truncate end. which is divided into presetal and postsetal 

 lobes, the former somewhat the longer, the latter bearing the gills. 



The branchiae are processes of the postsetal lobe, which even as far 

 forward as V has developed a longer cirrus-hke dorsal piece and a 

 shorter and thicker ventral piece. On succeeding somites the former 

 diverges more and more dorsad, and from the dorsal side of the ventral 

 di\'ision successive short thick filaments arise, there being 2 branches 

 on V, 3 on VII, 4 on IX, which number continues, -^-ith occasional 

 variations to 5, to XXVI or XXVII. WTien best developed the 

 branchial filaments spread ventrad well below the setae; the dorsalmost 

 cirrus-hke one is about twice the length of the others and cm-ves over 

 the back; the next one or two are separated but the lowermost 2 or 3 

 remain connected and diverge hke fingers in a palmate manner. All 

 are much -uTinkled and e^'idently contractile. The dorsalmost fila- 

 ment disappears suddenly at about XXJL, and the others gradually un- 

 dergo reduction until finally only a minute papilla on the postsetal lobe 

 remains. 



Setae of two types, both simple; bent lance-shaped ones and hooked, 

 guarded ones which exhibit two modifications toward the two ends of 

 the body. The lance-shaped setae are pale yellow, colorless at the tip, 

 and occur in two groups in anterior somites, the number being reduced 

 more posteriorly by the gradual replacement of the middle ones by 




1903] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 457 



hooked setae; they are most numerous in the dorsal group (5-6 dorsal 

 and 2-3 ventral in the middle branchial region) and here persist the 

 longest; the knife-edge flange dehcately striated, widest at base, 

 diminishing toward tip, and lea\'ing a very acute point, flange directed 

 dorsally in the ventral setae, ventral in the dorsal; shaft of setae bent 

 more or less strongly at the base of the flange and on the margins of 

 the bundle, the tips often recurved in the opposite direction. Pos- 

 teriorly the lance setae become reduced to 2 or 3 in the dorsal bmidle ; 

 darker, even black, in color, straighter, more slender and with a much 

 reduced flange. 



The hooked setae of the anterior segments exhibit transitional charac- 

 ters between the lance-shaped setae and the posterior hooked ones. 

 Anteriorly they are pale yellow, posteriorly darker as they pass into 

 the more typical hooks, stouter than adjacent lance-shaped setae, but 

 of the same form until near the tip, when the shaft suddenly contracts, 

 bends shghtly backward and terminates in a short truncate hook, 

 bearing about five short teeth of diminishing size; at the same place 

 the flange forms a guard which includes the hook and conforms to its 

 shape. Posteriorly the hooks become darker, longer, the tip stouter 

 and more prominently hooked, the number of teeth 7 or 8, of which 

 the most proximal is the largest, the blade absent except where it 

 forms the hood-like guard, and the stem club-shaped. 



Skin strongly iridescent, but color all gone. 



Only the type known from station 3,767, Sendai Bay, 14-18 fms. 



GONIADID^. 

 Goniada (Leonnatus) foliacea sp. nov. (PI. XX VI, figs. 75, 76.) 



The largest specimen measures 98 mm. long, 4 mm. between the tips 

 of the setae in the anterior region, and 5.3 mm. at the begimiing of the 

 posterior region. The relatively stout body consists of 160 somites, 

 in addition to perhaps 3 or 4 which have been lost at the caudal end. 

 The posterior region, beginning at somite LXIII, is filled with 

 sexual products in the larger individuals and, being very readily de- 

 tached, may separate and s^\'im independently at maturity. 



Head prominent but shorter than in most species, bluntly conical, 

 slightly depressed, length twice -^ddth, composed of only four strongly 

 marked rings, the basal one nearly equalling all the others in length, 

 and the latter decreasing to the tip, furrows on ventral and dorsal 

 surfaces alternating in position and joined by a pair of lateral zigzag 

 grooves which terminate caudally in a small sht-like pit on each side 

 of the peristomium, dorsal to the palpi. On the ventral surface of the 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlUie, 



head is an elongated, narrow, triangular, depressed, translucent area 

 reaching from the apex to the mouth, into which the annular grooves 

 do not extend, thus cutting off on each side lateral portions of the 

 rings, which appear as four pairs of low, thick, shghtly projecting lobes 

 to which the depressed form of the head is chiefly due. The 4 apical 

 tentacles are present in but one example, and even in this are imperfect 

 through maceration. Palpi (lateral hps), a pair of prominent rounded 

 lobes, with largely free, tliin, anterior margins at the sides of the mouth. 

 Peristomium indistinctly separated from the base of the prostomium 

 and the first foot-bearing somite; ventrally it forms a prominent 

 median Up. In two of the small examples from Sta. 3,771 and one 

 larger from Sta. 3.695. a minute cirrus is present just in hne with the 

 parapodia on the buccal ring, but cannot be detected in the type speci- 

 men, which is the largest examined. It is possible that the buccal ring 

 may consist of two somites in this genus. 



Except the first, all foot-bearing somites are distinct, and in the 

 anterior region about 3 to 3^ times as wide as long, increasing in size to 

 about XLV. then remaining without material change to LXIII, be- 

 tween which and LXII a weakening of the body walls occiu-s, caudad 

 of which the width rapidly decreases for 4 or 5 somites, beyond which 

 the body assumes a linear form, though the much increased length of 

 the parapodia results in a greater total width and a more depressed 

 aspect than anteriorly. About 100 somites constitute the posterior 

 region; the type has 97, but 3 or 4 caudal somites are wanting. Some 

 smaller specimens -uith the anal ring present lack caudal cirri, which 

 have doubtless been lost. 



As typical of the anterior region the parapodium of somite XV may 

 be described. This consists of a rather stout neiu-opodium having a 

 length equal to ^ the wddth of the somite, and di\'ided into a broad, 

 foliaceous. ovate pyriform presetal lobe, the tip of which is di\'ided by 

 a deep cleft into two narrow tongue-hke halves, and a somewhat slen- 

 der lanceolate postsetal lobe, placed just opposite to the cleft in the 

 presetal lobe, which it slightly exceeds in length. Ventral cirrus arises 

 from basal half of neuropodium, rather thick and stout; its tip falls a 

 little short of the setigerous lobes. Dorsal cirrus consists of a rather 

 stout rounded stalk, ^ith swollen base and somewhat flattened, foh- 

 aceous, nearly orbicular or broadh' ovate-lanceolate appendage, which 

 bends abruptly dorsad. 



Toward the head the postsetal lobe becomes shorter than the pre- 

 setal, and is absent in the first 3 parapodia; the presetal also becomes 

 narrower, and finally loses the terminal bifurcation; the cirri approach 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



more closely and crowd the neuropodium, the foliaceous character of 

 the dorsal cirrus disappearing. The first parapodium consists of a 

 neuropodium without setae, but bearing a long, slender, cirrus-like pre- 

 setal lobe, and dorsal and ventral cirri, which differ from the typical 

 ones only in their smaller size. Posteriorly, beginning at about somite 

 XXXV, a small conical notopodiimi appears just ventrad and cephalad 

 of the dorsal cirrus. This bears setse at once, and, in relation thereto, 

 is divided into narrow presetal and postsetal lobes, of which the latter 

 is more ventrad, features which become more e^^dent as the notopo- 

 dium increases in size toward the end of the anterior region. 



The first few parapodia of the posterior region are transitional in 

 form, but quickly become more foliaceous and assume the characteristic 

 structm-e which is typically developed on somite LXXV. Here neuro- 

 podium and notopodium are well separated by a wide interval, and 

 each bears its appropriate cirrus. The former is essentially as in the 

 anterior parapodia, but both lobes are much broader and more leaf-like, 

 the 2 divisions of the presetal more divergent, the dorsal considerably 

 the larger and both longer than the postsetal lobe ; ventral cirrus rela- 

 tively shorter. Notopodium about one-half length of neuropodium, 

 obtusely rounded, broadlj' attached, and not constricted at base; pre- 

 setal and postsetal lobes not prominent, the latter more ventral, so 

 that an oblique terminal notch appears in face views of the parapodium. 

 Dorsal cirrus rises from the base of the notopodium, and is directed 

 almost vertically dorsad; form similar to anterior cirri, but stalk 

 shorter. More anteriorly each lobe of the notopodium bears a slender 

 terminal papilla, that of the presetal being quite long and slender. 

 Toward the posterior end the two divisions of the foot become still 

 more widely separated, and both again more slender and less foliaceous, 

 while the dorsal presetal lobe of the neuropodimn becomes more 

 prominent. 



The neuropodial setse are arranged in a single vertical fan-shaped 

 row, which spreads very widely in the fohaceous shamming feet of the 

 posterior or genital region, the number of setse corresponding closely 

 with the "^ddth of the lobe. All are of the same form, compoimd, with 

 very long stems, especially on the swimming feet, and slender, finely 

 pointed, and very delicately fringed blades, which are longest in the 

 middle of each bundle and diminish dorsally and ventrall}'. The figure 

 does not show the full side view of the blade. 



Notopodial setse similarly arranged in a fan-shaped vertical series of 

 correspondingly smaller spread; all simple, colorless, slightly bent and 

 curved, and tapering to an extremely acute point; the surface marked 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlUie, 



'with fine granules arranged in oblique rows and appearing as somewhat 

 irregular serrations at the edge. 



Jaws black or deep brown and opaque, forming a continuous but 

 irregular ring just caudad of a circle of 18 obtuse lobes wliich lie at 

 extreme the end of the fully protruded proboscis, and when retracted 

 cover the jaws in somite XXIII. One principal jaw on each side and 

 dorsad, the left one bearing two long hooked spines shaped hke the 

 venom fangs of serpents; the right one bearing in addition 2 or 3 

 smaller but similar spines on the medial side. In the dorsal interval 

 between the principal jaws are 14 or 15 smaller accessory ones arranged 

 in an irregular transverse band; they are of inconstant form but each 

 bears a pair of, or even 3, hooked teeth on a rather stout base. The 

 ventral distance between the principal jaws is more than twice the 

 dorsal, and is occupied by a fairly even and continuous row of 28 to 30 

 small jaws of various sizes and forms, some being quite rudimentary. 

 As a rule each bears a single claw-hke hook directed, as are the others, 

 caudad on an irregular orbicular base having a pair of anteriorly di- 

 rected, divergent processes. No longitudinal series of accessory jaws 

 is present. 



A low muscular fold runs along the mid-dorsal line of the pharynx 

 from its cephahc attachment to the predental lobes, but does not 

 involve a complete folding of the pharyngeal walls as in Goniada dis- 

 torta. The proboscis papillae are all of one kind, elevated mammili- 

 form, the enlarged somewhat pyramidal bases much crowded in the 

 retracted organ and the teat-like summits pointed and slightly curved. 

 They measure .014 mm. in height, and .009 mm. in diameter of base. 



Color a general gambose yellow, lighter in the furrows and on the 

 contiguous surfaces of parapodia and in the head region, and modi- 

 fied posteriorly by the presence of the eggs, which crowd the sides of 

 the somites and the parapodia. The anterior region, exclusive of 

 the head and a few somites, is very dark and opaque from the presence 

 of an abundant purplish-brown pigment deposited in a narrow zone 

 around each somite, which broadens above and below each parapodium, 

 and affects the terminal parts of the cirri and, to a less degree, the setig- 

 erous lobes. The anterior end is iridescent with greenish and bluish 

 reflections. A curiously constant feature is a ventral series of minute 

 but conspicuous black spots, situated in the median line of each inter- 

 segmental furrow of the posterior region, at the beginning of which 

 they appear abruptly. 



Sagami Bay, 3,695, 190 fms., type and one other specimen; North 

 of Sendai Bay, 3,771, 62 fms., 4 specimens of smaller size. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



Goniada distorta sp. nov. 



This species is described from a single incomplete specimen consist- 

 ing of 106 somites and having a length of 66 mm., and in the anterior 

 region a width of body of 2 mm. and between the tips of the parapodia 

 2.8 mm., while posteriorly the same measurements are respectively 

 1.3 mm. and 3.7 mm. 



Body slender and nearly round throughout, increasing in diameter to 

 somite LX, then diminishing and becoming linear posteriorly; rather 

 wider dorsally than ventrally and somewhat tumid above the bases of 

 the parapodia; posteriorly the great length of the parapodia gives an 

 appearance of depression. • 



Head of the usual tapering, elongated form, consisting, besides the 

 basal piece, which constitutes nearly ^ of its length, of 7 distinct annu- 

 lations, diminishing in size and terminated by an 8th shghtly wider one. 

 The prostomium is circular, not flattened as in G. foliacea, and the 

 furrows are continuous all around ; there is no lateral groove, but a pit 

 is present on each side at the posterior margin of the head. Only a 

 single imperfect apical tentacle, of clavate form and having a length 

 about equal to the apical ring, is present. Eyes absent. Peristomium 

 not clearly distinguished from the succeeding somites. The partial 

 protrusion of the pharynx greatly alters the appearance of the mouth, 

 but the lateral lobes or palpi, and the lips appear not to differ from 

 G. foliacea. The somites are distinct, but show no indication of sub- 

 division into rings. 



The parapodia differ in many respects from those of G. foliacea. 

 The anterior or imiramal ones are prominent and slender, have a 

 length exceeding -J the diameter of the body, and stand out abruptly 

 from the middle of their somites. Neuropodium a compressed cylinder 

 about as deep as long, bearing at the end one postsetal and two pre- 

 setal cylindrical cirriform processes, of which the dorsal presetal is 

 shghtly the longest. Neiu-opodial cirrus, which also arises near the 

 end, but on the ventral posterior face of the neuropodium is slightly 

 longer, and at its base nearly twice the diameter of the setal lobes, and 

 has a conical form. Notopodial cirrus separated by a narrow interval 

 from the neuropodimn; it is swollen basally and, near the middle of 

 its dorsal surface, is provided with a shallow depression lined ■with 

 tall columnar cells, beyond which it bends abruptly dorsad at an angle 

 as though deformed, and terminates as a blimt cyhndrical or conical 

 piece not at all foliaceous. 



The t3"pical foot of the anterior region just described is retained 

 with little change as far forward as the 4th. The 3d parapodium has 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jline, 



only a trace of the dorsal presetal lobe, ancj the cirri are of larger size 

 than in the typical foot. The 2d bears still larger cirri, united with 

 the neuropodium, and the latter is still further reduced. The first 

 postbuccal somite bears a fully formed trilobate setigerous parapodium 

 like the second on the left side, and only a simple cirrus on the right 

 side. 



Toward the posterior end of the anterior region the base of the neuro- 

 podium increases, and the terminal lobes, especially the presetal, dimin- 

 ish in length. The neuropodial cirrus at the same time increases 

 until its tip reaches beyond any other part of the foot, while the ventral 

 portion of the neuro|Todimn which bears it becomes partly cut off by 

 distinct anterior and posterior furrows. Meanwhile the notopodial 

 cirrus has become relatively shorter and stouter and its terminal part 

 slightly flattened antero-posteriorly. All of these changes become 

 progressively emphasized. Not till the 54th somite does the noto- 

 podium appear as a slender process arising in common with the noto- 

 podial cirrus, and reaching as far as the tip of the postsetal lobe, but 

 not to the end of the neuropodial cirrus. After its abrupt appearance 

 the notopodium becomes gradually shorter and more and more closely 

 united with the cirrus. Although from its beginning supported by an 

 aciculum the notopodium at first bears no setae, and even as far back as 

 the 65th foot only a single one has been detected. Indeed, throughout 

 the entire region notopodial setse are very few. 



No further important change occurs until somite LXXVI, when the 

 body rather rapidly decreases in diameter and assumes the linear 

 character of the posterior region, while the parapodia increase in length 

 to 1^^ times the width of the body, a change due in part to the larger 

 size of the neuropodium and notopodium, but still more to their eleva- 

 tion upon a common base. Taking the 100th parapodium as a typical 

 example the following description apphes : Base of parapodium nearly 

 as deep as body, swollen with spermatozoa in the example studied, 

 as long or slightly longer than neuropodium, which is again longer as 

 well as deeper than notopodium, each of which divisions is supported by 

 a single rather stout, straight, tapering, yellow aciculum. Neuro- 

 podium divided into two rather short (the dorsalmost the longer), 

 pointed, presetal lobes, and a n.iuch broader, leaf-like, postsetal lobe, 

 the somewhat shorter tip of which hes opposite the interval between 

 the sUghtly divergent presetal lobes. Neuropodial cirrus elongated 

 conical, arising from a distinct base about the middle of the ventral 

 surface of the body of the neiu-opodium, its tip reacliing to end of ven- 

 tral presetal lobe, from which, however, it naturally diverges ventrad. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



Notopodium united with its cirrus for about f of its length, only their 

 ends free as short, pointed, triangular, nearly symmetrical, divergent 

 lobes; postsetal lobe rudimentary; cirrus still retains sensory depres- 

 sion but of much reduced size. 



The setae are of two kinds. Those of the neuropodia are arranged 

 in a single fan-shaped group, larger in posterior than anterior somites, 

 but always very much inferior in size to those of G. foliacea; all are 

 colorless, compound, with very slender tapering delicately fringed ter- 

 minal pieces, which are 3 or 4 times as long in posterior as in anterior 

 somites. Notopodial setse are few in number; when most numerous 

 in the posterior region forming a small fan-shaped fascicle; simple, 

 colorless, shorter but stouter than neuropodials, slender, slightly 

 curved, very finely pointed, and with the rather coarse granulations 

 confined to the convex border. 



Pharynx very long, the jaws in its retracted state in somite XLII; 

 the longitudinal muscular fold larger than in G. foliacea, with a corre- 

 sponding groove on the coelomic face of the pharynx, and reaching 

 for the entire length of the proboscis; owing to a half turn of the pha- 

 rynx its posterior end passes spirally around to the ventral side, with the 

 large jaws. Papillae of two forms; very numerous bluntly conical ones 

 measuring only .003 mm. in height are arranged in close irregularly 

 oblique rows over the greater part of the surface; somewhat larger ones 

 with compressed bifid summits occur more sparingly and are confined 

 to the muscular ridge. Both have the cuticle thickened and have a 

 single sensory pore just behind the apex. Predental lobes 16 or 18, 

 diminishing slightly in size from the dorsal to the ventral side. Jaws 

 black, opaque, forming a complete ring; larger ones somewhat dorsad, 

 symmetrical, each with four claw-like teeth, diminishing in size dorso- 

 mediad. Accessory jaws in a nearly regular ring, but the alternate 

 ones, owing to somewhat smaller size, stand a httle anterior to the 

 others; with the exception of a very few unifid and trifid ones, all are 

 bifid, and of similar form, with the two teeth nearly equal and some- 

 what divergent, the bases irregularly rounded or with a pair of rather 

 short forwardly directed processes; 13 occur between the dorsal inter- 

 space, and 18 or 19 ventrally, the latter distance being about twice the 

 former, and the jaws consequently less crowded. 



The color is pale yellow, the cirri and other terminal parts of the pos- 

 terior parapodia with some brownish-yellow pigment; anterior part 

 of body very pale with a pinkish iridescence. 



A noteworthy feature is the occurrence in this species, as in G. foli- 

 acea, of ventral, intersegmental dark spots on the posterior region. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The}' begin abruptl}^ at soniite LXXVII but are less distinct than in 

 that species. 



Suruga Bay, 3,739, 35-65 fms. 



GLiYCEIlID^. 

 Glycera goesi Mgm. 



I am quite unable to distinguish between this species and G. decipiens 

 V. Marenz., under Avliich latter name it has already been recorded in 

 Japanese waters from the Bay of ]Miya. The examples from the 

 "Albatross" dredgings are all of small size. In some the gills are very 

 regularly developed, in others most irregularly and in still others they 

 are altogether retracted. They come chiefly from moderate depths at 

 the more northern stations. 



Suruga Bay, 3,715, 65 fms. ; 3,723, 13-16 fms. ; Sendai Bay and north 

 ward, 3,767, 14-18 fms.; 3,768, 25-27 fms.; 3,771, 61 fms.; 3,775, 

 57 fms. 

 Glycera tesselata Gnibe. 



This species is widely distributed in the Atlantic Ocean, but has not 

 been hitherto recorded from Pacific waters. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms. 

 Glycera alba Oersted. 



Like G. gcesi this species is represented, with one exception, by small 

 examples only and the gills are frequently minute vesicles. The 

 tubercle which appears on the parapodium just above the branchia in 

 Malmgren's, but not in Oersted's, figures is absent in all of these speci- 

 mens. 



Sagami Bay, 3,702. 31-41 fms.; Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63 75 fms.; 

 Suruga Bay, 3,740, 65 fms.; North Japan, 3,767, 14-18 fms.; 3,775, 

 57 fms., the latter the only large example taken. 

 Glycera robusta Ehlers. 



The anterior end of the single large example by which this species 

 is represented is interesting from the regular occurrence of small colo- 

 nies of dichotomously branching cihates between the parapodia. 

 These bear a most striking resembhng to the " gills '' of G. opisthobranchi 

 V. ]\Iarenz. 



Siuruga Bay, 3,718, 65 fms. 



ARIOIID^. 



Aricia fimbriata sp. nov. (PI. XXIV, figs. 31-35.) 



A specimen comprising the head and 83 setigerous somites, A^-ith jl 

 length of 60 mm. and a maximimi diameter of 7 mm., is the type of 




1S03.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



this species. Form as usual in the genus, depressed, flat dorsally, 

 strongly convex ventrally, stout anteriorly, and tapering into a long 

 slender fragile posterior region. Tliis is e\'identh' a species of con- 

 siderable size, but is represented by 3 short anterior ends and a frag- 

 ment of the posterior end. 



Head mammiform, as A-iewed from above, with a dome-shaped 

 basal piece incomplete ventrally, being cut into by a low median 

 ridge wliich is continued to the mouth from the regularly conical 

 pointed terminal piece. Mouth ventral, a rather small sht-like or 

 shghtly quadrate opening, bounded posteriorly by the 2d setigerous 

 somite, lateral!}' by the lobe-like tliickenings of the 1st setigerous 

 somite, and anteriorly by the caudal end of the prostomial ridge ; its 

 four angles are prolonged into chinks passing into the fiu-rows bounding 

 the 1st setigerous somite, which is incomplete ventrally, and between 

 the oral lobes of which the second setigerous somite is produced as a 

 wedge-shaped hinder hp. 



Parapodia biramous throughout, the first 16 relatively low, with very 

 broad attachment on lateral faces of somites; both notopodia and 

 neuropocha with broad, more or less pectinate postsetal lobes, the latter 

 much the better developed; posterior to the 18th the parapodia are 

 entirely dorsal, the fimbriated postsetal lobes are replaced by simple 

 ones, and the neuropodium is rudimentary. The 10th parapodium, 

 which is typical of the anterior region, exhibits the follo-v^dng characters : 

 The two rami separated by a narrow cleft ; the neuropodium more than 

 twice as broad as the notopodium, strictty lateral, consisting of an 

 extensive, sessile, setae-bearing area about 4 times as long transversely 

 as longitudinally, an obscm-e presetal lobe, and a postsetal lobe which 

 is pro\'ided at a short interval from the setae with a high fold bearing 

 about 12-14 conical marginal processes, the dorsalmost of which are 

 somewhat enlarged ; notopodium generally similar, the setigerous area 

 raised as a very low compressed ridge, the postsetal lobe narrower 

 but higher, in correspondence ^\ith the longer setae, obhquely and 

 broadly palmate, somewhat hke a moose's antlers, and bearing about 

 8 marginal processes which trend dorsally, toward which side they are 

 larger and the last sometimes bifid. Anteriorly the changes in the 

 parapodia consist in a gradual reduction in size of the entire foot, 

 with a diminution of the neiu-opodial setigerous areas in vertical extent, 

 and a decrease in number of the postsetal processes, until the neuro- 

 podium bears but 3 or 4, and the notopodium usually a larger bifid one. 

 Posteriorly the neuropodial setigerous area suffers in extent by a reduc- 

 tion from the posterior and dorsal borders, the postsetal lobe gradually 

 30 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



shrinks from the ventral margin, from which a few of its papillae become 

 detached and appear quite isolated on the body walls of the posterior 

 somites of this region and the followdng transitional region; but such 

 papillae are few and small, and appear only on the lateral portions of 

 somites XVI to XXI or some of these; the dorsal margin of the 

 notopodial postsetal lobe, with its papillae, elongates until it appears 

 as a main stem bearing the remaining papillae on its lateral side. 



The 17th and 18th parapodia are transitional but resemble those of 

 the posterior region more closely; they are, however, less dorsal 

 and usually exhibit a few papillae just ventrad of the parapodia. 

 The 19th is quite typical of the posterior region, directed dorsad from 

 the upper part of the sides of the somite, neuropodivun narrow but 

 prominent and erect, "^ith a small leaf-hke ovate presetal process 

 having a strong basal constriction, a small conical recurved postsetal 

 process, and, below the constriction, a minute conical neuropodial 

 cirrus, apparently derived from the dorsahnost postsetal papilla; noto- 

 podium broader and much more conspicuous, consisting of a setigerous 

 tubercle and a greatly enlarged, pointed, ovate-lanceolate, postsetal 

 process nearly equalling the gill in length, "with a constricted somewhat 

 flattened base, and an asymmetrical mng to the blade-hke extension of 

 its lateral margin. Changes in the parapodia toward the posterior 

 end consist in shght alterations in proportion of parts ; the entire foot 

 becomes more elongated and narrow, the notopodial postsetal lobe 

 even larger and more leaf-hke, assmning the form of the branchiae, 

 'except that its base is always constricted, and the neuropodium more 

 reduced in size. 



Branchiae of nearly full size begin abruptly on the 5th setigerous 

 somite and continue as far as the material reaches toward the posterior 

 end; strictly dorsal, separated by ^ the vddih of the back; anteriorly 

 broadly, then narrowly lingulate, pointed, broadly attached, with a 

 central axis containing 2 blood vessels connected by numerous trans- 

 verse loops arranged in doubly pinnate fashion; branchiae of a pair 

 united with each other and with the corresponding notopodia by deh- 

 cate transverse integumental folds. 



Setae all more or less tapering and acutely pointed. Neuropodials 

 arranged in a dense phalanx, very numerous, rather stout, of two kinds, 

 \\ith transitional forms; those of the anterior ranks shorter, densely 

 fibrillated, ohve colored, strongly curved in a more or less sinuous 

 manner, the edge corresponding to the principal convexity distinctly 

 serrated with dehcate transverse ridges partly encirchng the shaft; 

 those of the posterior ranks much longer, more slender, less strongly 




1903.] ■ NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



curved, the exposed part lighter in color and spirally canahciilated 

 around a slender fibrous core which usually appears to be somewhat 

 eccentric. 



Notopodial setae in a dense spreading tuft, longer than neuropodials 

 especially toward the dorsal margin of the bundles, but similar in form 

 to the second kind, the spiral canal of smaller calibre, and correspond- 

 ing to an external spiral raised line, which latter alone persists toward 

 the end. 



Setse of posterior region few in number (only about 6 or 8 in the 

 neuropodium). similar in both rami, very long, slender, straight and 

 stiff, longitudinally striated, the terminal half with a dehcate marginal 

 serrature which appears to be due to a series of about f collars shghtly 

 . overlapping, and on one side separated from the shaft by a distinct 

 space, thus foreshadowing the canaliculated form of seta. 



A few short delicate setse with bifid tips, the two divisions of which are 

 fringed on their opposed faces with fine hairs, also occur in the neuro- 

 podium. 



Anteriorly the neuropodial acicula are inconspicuous, but on the 

 13th to 16th parapodia inclusive they largely replace the ordinary setse 

 and become very much enlarged with subterminal thickenings, pointed 

 ends, and a deep brown color; they project as a row of 5-7 short spines, 

 except the dorsalmost one, which in most cases has its entire spindle- 

 shaped terminal half exposed. In the posterior region there are 3 

 neuropodial and one notopodial acicula, slender, acute, wdth the tip 

 sculptured for a short distance, exactly as in the setse. 



Suruga Bay, 3,709, 173-260 fms.; 3,724, 20 fms.; North Japan, 

 .3,768, 25 fms.; 3,771, 61 fms. 



CIRRATULID^. 

 Cirratulus gibbosus sp. nov. (PI. XXVI, fig. 72.) 



Form of preserved specimens stout anteriorly, flat below, strongl}-- 

 arched above; slender, pointed, and much depressed posteriorly. The 

 type and largest specimen has 105 somites, is 32 mm. long, and 6.5 mm. 

 wide at XXX, the widest part. 



Prostomium a short and broad lip about 3 timqg as wdde as long, 

 with a transverse row of 4 to 6 conspicuous, reddish-brown eyes on 

 each side of a median interval of about ^ the wddth of the prostomium. 

 Mouth small. Peristomium a prominent, swollen, gibbous ring, as 

 long as the prostomium and elevated above the level, both of this and 

 the succeeding somites. Next follows a neck-like region of 6 verj'- 

 short somites without setae or branchiae. The succeeding few somites 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



widen abruptly and these and all others are uniannulate. Anus 

 minute, slightly dorsal. 



The branchiae begin as a tuft of 3 or 4 small ones on each side of VIII 

 just above the parapodia; on IX a large tuft of upward of 15 arises 

 from a transverse area which extends from the parapodia nearly to the 

 middle line, while each of the succeeding somites back as far as the be- 

 ginning of the posterior i bears a single pair which arises close to the 

 posterior margin about midway between the parapodia and the dorsal 

 mid-line, except anteriorly where the place of origin is lower and more 

 irregular. Posteriorly the size of the branchiae varies; small and large 

 ones alternate in a very irregular way. 



The parapodia consist of small, well-separated neuropodial and 

 notopodial tubercles which begin with the setae on VIII. For about 

 the first 12 or 13 somites only capillary setae are present in the noto- 

 podial tubercles, beyond that they are mixed wdth blunt spines, while 

 all of the neuropodial tubercles contain both spines and capillary setae. 

 The number of both is always small, about 5 capillary in anterior 

 notopodia, usually 2 of each in anterior neuropodia, 1 of each in pos- 

 terior notopodia, and 1 capillary and 2 spines in posterior neuropodia. 

 CapiUary setae little elongated, but few of them exceeding the distance 

 between the two setigerous tubercles, pale greenish, slightly obliquely 

 striated and fringed on one margin, slender, tapering. Spines simple, 

 slightly sigmoid, greenish yellow, translucent and unstriated; one of the 

 notopodials usually somewhat enlarged. 



Sagami Ba}^ 3,703, 31 fms. 

 Clisetozone spinosa sp. nov. (PI. XXVI, figs. 73, 74.) 



The type, a complete specimen of 112 somites, is 65 mm. long and 

 5 mm. in breadth at the end of the anterior ^. The head is very dis- 

 tinctly separated from the body by a deep furrow behind the peristo- 

 mium, broadly top-shaped as seen from above, bluntly pointed and 

 about as broad as long. Prostomium nipple-shaped, separated from the 

 peristomium by a furrow dorsally and laterally, but on the ventral side 

 reaching back to mouth as a narrow pointed upper Up, behind which 

 is a pair of palp-like lobes bounding the mouth at the sides. Peristo- 

 mium much enlarged, considerably wider than the next somite and 

 fully twice as long above as below; smooth, regularly rounded, with 

 a faint transverse constriction above and laterally. No eyes and no 

 visible sensory pits. Mouth ventral, with an anchor-shaped anterior 

 extension between the palp-like lobes, bomided posteriorly by a smooth 

 under hp. 



Body somewhat depressed anteriorly, more or less quadrate poster!- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



orly, tapering gradually from end of anterior ^ both ways; both dorsal 

 and ventral surfaces smooth, the former depressed between the dorsal 

 ends of the parapodia, by which it is sharply bounded, and than which 

 it is narrower, the latter wider, not depressed and passing gradually 

 at the sides into the parapodia. Somites rather long, uniannulate, 

 and. with the exception of the first, very distinct and sharply marked 

 by deep furrows ; the first united broadly at the sides and by a narrow 

 median dorsal tract to the peristomium, posteriorly rather indistinctly 

 separated from the succeeding somite ; it bears an achsetous parapodium ; 

 last 7 or 8 somites becoming rapidly smaller and the last 3 appar- 

 ently achaetous. Pygidium prominent, expanded, somewhat funnel- 

 shaped, and looking obliquely upward; anus in its centre. 



Parapodia low but distinct, transverse lateral ridges equal to about 

 ^ of body circumference; anteriorly they are wrinkled and entirely 

 undivided, and pass without distinct boundaries into the ventral sur- 

 face, but sharply limited dorsally where they rise above the level of 

 the smooth area; farther back the dorsal delimitation becomes less 

 and less distinct and the parapodium becomes somewhat differentiated 

 into dorsal and ventral portions, which assume more divergent and 

 prominent positions on the dorsal and ventral quadrants as the height 

 of the body decreases. 



No branchiae are in situ, but a few very long slender and much coiled 

 filaments in the bottle probably belong to this worm, while very dis- 

 tinct scars clearly indicate their disposition. Except about the last 

 10, each and every somite bears a pair of scars; anteriorly they are 

 very conspicuous, and the first, which is between the dorsal end of the 

 1st parapodium and the prostomiimi and probably belongs to the latter, 

 is much larger than the others. For about the next 17 somites the 

 scars are at the extreme posterior margin of the somites and exactly 

 on the level of the dorsal ends of the parapodia, but farther back, as 

 the latter become less distinctly limited, the scars assume a progres- 

 sively lower and then more anterior position, until in the posterior half 

 of the body they are just behind the lowermost setae of the dorsal divi- 

 sion, or nearly at the middle of the parapodium. The posterior scars 

 become smaller but remain quite evident to the last. 



The setae present a striking contrast to those of C. abranchiata owing 

 to the substitution in large part, for the delicate capillary setae of that 

 species, of stiff, brittle, spinous setae which stand out in conspicuous 

 whorls at the posterior end. In all parapodia the setae are arranged 

 in a single vertical rank of two groups, although anteriorly the interval 

 between is so small that from the exterior they appear to be continuous. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The notopodial group is the larger, and both consist of a fan-shaped 

 groups of two kinds of setse intermixed, except in the last 20 or so 

 somites where only one kind occurs. There are coarse, stiff bristles 

 arranged at regular intervals, 8-10 in the dorsal. 6-8 in the ventral bun- 

 dles, ohve-green, densely striated and granulated internally, except 

 toward the tip, ciu-ved, tapering rapidly to the attenuated outer -J, 

 which is colorless and fringed along one margin with overlapping hairs 

 or plates. Very slender hair-hke setse are scattered among the coarse 

 ones, and are 2 or 3 times as long as they, nearly colorless, with internal 

 striae having a slight spiral turn, continuously tapering, slightly en- 

 larged at base of exposed portion, and provided, except near the base, 

 with very dehcate half-round scales which are rather distant, usually 

 alternate on the two sides and toward the tip become reduced to 

 minute ciha-Hke processes. Posteriorly the coarse setse become much 

 stouter, lose their delicate tips and form very prominent, slightly 

 curved, blunt-pointed spines, while the capillary ones become smaller, 

 and eventually disappear. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms. Type only. 

 Chaetozone C?) abranchiata (Hansen). 



Under the name of Cirratidus ahrancliiatus Hansen described this 

 species firom much smaller specimens in which he found no trace of 

 branchiae. Otherwise liis specimens closely resemble those collected 

 by the "Albatross," which are referred to Hansen's species on the 

 supposition that the types were imperfect. As tliis opinion may be 

 erroneous a description is added. 



Form short and very stout and thick in the contracted specimens, 

 tapering about equally to the two ends which are similarly blmitly 

 pointed ; somewhat depressed with dorsal and ventral surfaces about 

 equally convex and the parapodia forming a somewhat thickened 

 marginal ridge. The type has 127 somites and is 38 mm, long by 8 

 mm. wide. The other specimen is larger. » 



Prostomium obtusely rounded, somewhat upturned, less than twdce 

 as broad as long ; no eyes ; mouth rather slit-like with lateral lips. Per- 

 istomimn a simple ring not especially enlarged, resembhng the next 

 2 somites which are much shorter than the prostomium but more than 

 twice the length of the succeeding somites. First 3 somites achaetous 

 but not especially marked off from the succeeding ones, the increase 

 in width being regular, though rapid; remaining somites short and uni- 

 annulate, the last few indistinct. Anus minute, dorsal, above a small 

 tubercle-like pygidium. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Parapodia represented b}' small, simple neuropodial and notopodial 

 tubercles united by a slight transverse ridge. But very few of the 

 branchiae remain and the scars are so obscure that the arrangement 

 at the anterior end cannot be determined Avith certainty ; for the greater 

 part of the anterior f of the bodj^ a pair springs from each somite just 

 above the notopodial tubercles but toward the end of the branchial 

 region the arrangement becomes somewhat irregular, the branchiae 

 usually occurring at intervals of 2 or 3 somites without change in 

 position. 



The notopodial and neuropodial tubercles each bears a tuft of 15-20 

 very soft elongated slender capillary setae of a pale greenish color and 

 homogeneous vitreous structure; many of them exliibit an indistinct 

 flattened region of greater or less extent which appears more of the 

 nature of an accidental crusliing than a normal structure. These setse 

 are exceedingly fine and long, very nearly equalling ^ the diameter even 

 of the much contracted body, and appear to the naked eye as conspi- 

 cuous tufts of very fuie whitish hairs. At the posterior end they are 

 somewhat shorter but not enlarged or otherwise different. Compared 

 with the capillary setae of C. spinosa those of this species are less than 

 f the diameter and fully ^ longer, much softer and under an equal 

 magnification lack altogether the surface markings of that species. 



Suruga Bay, 3,726, 26 fms.; Sendai Bay, 3,767, 14-18 fms. 



TEREBELLIDiE. 

 Amphitrite bifurcata sp. nov. (PI. XXVI, fig. 78. ) 



The type is 70 mm. long and 7.8 mm. in maximum diameter, and 

 consists of 59 somites. 



Prostomium a long prominent somewhat horse-shoe-shaped lip with- 

 out compMcating folds, but shghtly rolled up and bent back against 

 the bases of the tentacles, behind which there is a low transverse ridge. 

 No eyes. Tentacles long, longitudinally grooved, in a continuous row 

 of about 22. 



Peristomimn a short simple ring, with a slightly free ventral margin 

 which covers the special lower hp, and no dorsal papillae or compli- 

 cating structures. ]\Iouth large, with a wide lower hp besides the peris- 

 tomium. 



The body, as usual in this genus, is somewhat enlarged anteriorly, 

 more slender posteriori}^ and throughout its length strongly arched 

 above and flat or concave below. Segments not very distinctly indi- 

 cated and, except for a few bi annulate anterior ones, only obscurely 

 annulated. Somites II, III, and IV with their anterior margins more 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



or less freely produced at the sides and the latter 2 parti}' coalesced 

 ventrally ; no dorsal papillse. Ventral plates 10,, on somites V to XIV, 

 the first 9 narrow parallelograms, the last broadly eUiptical and some- 

 what separated from the others. Anus large, terminal, its margin 

 faintly \\Tinkled. 



Branchiae 3 pairs, on II, III, and I^', much branched, the number of 

 di\dsions about equal on aU, but somewhat shorter posteriorly. They 

 have very nearly the form of the branchiae of A. johnstoni Mgrn., and 

 consist of a more or less bent and t"^isted main stem from which the 

 filaments arise at intervals and di\'ide dichotomously once, twice, or, 

 rarely, even 3 times, or a few remain simple; the basal branches are 

 long and slender, but the length gradually decreases until the apical 

 ones are very short. 



On the thoracic segments the parapodia are represented by rather 

 broad ridges, the setigerous tubercle being merely a more prominent 

 projection at its dorsal end shghtly caudad of the line of the uncini. 

 The second uncigerous torus is the longest, but the decrease in size is 

 very slight to the last thoracic segment and is accompanied by a sUght 

 ventral shifting. The abdominal parapodia are rather large, fleshy 

 and strongly bent, and bear a striking resemblance to the so-called 

 false feet of a lepidopterous caterpillar, but posteriorly become more 

 slender and sloping, and finally diminished in size; all are situated on 

 the ventro-lateral angles of the body. 



Capillary setae occm* on IV to XX inclusive, uncini from V to the 

 pre-anal somite inclusive. The former have a narrow blade, nowhere 

 exceeding ^ the diameter of the shaft, the blade fringed for about ^ its 

 length, and a delicate smooth tip. The uncini are arrangetl in inter- 

 locking double rows of about 170 (XX) on the thoracic somites from 

 XI to XX; on all others in a simple series directed forward; on each 

 parapodium of somite XXX there are SO. Their bases are short with 

 the internal margin strongly convex, the anterior end rounded, the pos- 

 terior pointed, and a prominent subrostral process; the rostriun long, 

 very acute, and strongly hooked, the sinus narrow, vertex much ele- 

 vated "with a prominent crest of at least five transverse rows of spines, 

 of which the first contains 5 or 6 large ones and the last 8 to 10 small 

 ones. The abdominal uncini are much smaller, with relatively shorter 

 bases, the neck narrower and the crest higher, with more numerous 

 rows of spines. The micini are nearly colorless, the capillary setae 

 ghstening yellow. 



Xorth of Sendai Bay, 3,768, 25 fms., type and one other specimen 

 with portions of a thick mud tube. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 473 



Amphitrite cirrata Miiller. 



North Japan, 3,771, 61 fms., numerous specimens of small size. 



Pista cristata (MiiUer) Mgrn. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.; North Japan, 3.771, 61 fms. 



The branchiae exhibit the usual asymmetry. The papillae above 

 tlue setigerous processes are on the posterior end of VI and VH, not on 

 VII and ^TII. as they are said to be in European specimens. 



Scionella gen. nov. 



Sides of the first 4 somites bearing prominent wings; a single pair 

 of branchiae arising from a transverse dorsal fold; setae begin on IV. 



Scionella japonica sp. nov. (ri. XX VI, figs. 79, 80.) 



The type, which consists of 49 somites, a few of the posterior ones 

 ha\'ing been lost, measures 70 mm. long and 5.5 mm. in greatest diam- 

 eter. Rather slender, and only very indistinctly cUvided into thoracic 

 and abdominal regions. 



Prostomium a rather thick, prominent, trefoil-shaped fold, wliich 

 projects stiffly out above and at the sides of the mouth, its margin 

 somewhat rolled outward, a dorsal ridge behind the tentacles. No 

 visible eyes. Tentacles at least 15 on each side, rather large, grooved 

 longitudinally but in these specimens much contracted, broad and flat. 

 Peristomium distinct all around, produced ventrally into a free margin, 

 within which the rather large quadrate lower hp is visible, and which 

 ends laterally in a pair of wing-like lateral lobes ; dorsally very short, 

 appearing as a mere ridge behind the tentacular ridge and bearing a 

 dorsal pre-branchial tubercle on each side. 



The 2d, 3d and 4th somites have no ventral folds but bear still more 

 prominent wing-hke lateral lobes, which rise successively to a higher 

 level and overlap from behind. Those of somite IV are united across 

 the dorsum by a high transverse fold which slopes upward and forward 

 above III and bears the gills on its free edge. The next 10 somites are 

 well marked, triannulate dorsally and with distinct ventral plates wliich 

 undergo no change in form except that the last has roughly the form of 

 an equilateral triangle. Somewhat large and swollen postbranchial 

 tubercles occur above the parapodia on all somites of this region as 

 far as XIV. The whole region is somewhat depressed, smooth, and 

 convex above, flattened below, with distinct longitudinal grooves 

 above and below the parapodia. The next 10 or 12 somites are large 

 and their boundaries indistinct, while the remaining ones are sharply 

 defined, shorter, and distinctly subdivided into annuli. Throughout 

 the greater part of the abdominal region the dorsum is arched and the 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jlllie; 



venter flat, with a neural groo"V'e, but near the caudal end the body is 

 more depressed. 



The single pair of branchiae, which arise as indicated above from 

 the 4th somite, are large and conspicuous and diA-ided into numerous 

 filaments, which are so crowded that they appear to arise together 

 from a common point, but which really spring in a unilateral pinnate 

 fasliion from a spirally wound stem. The latter makes about 3 turns, 

 but owing to the closeness of the filaments, the bases of which are in 

 actual contact, the nimiber is somewhat uncertain. In hne with, the 

 branchiae somites II and III both bear dorsal tubercles, which are 

 especially prominent on III, on which, in both specimens, a second 

 smaller tubercle occurs at the base of the larger one ; these are prob- 

 ably reduced giUs, and, were it not for the exact correspondence of the 

 two specimens, might be supposed to be regenerating. 



On somites VI, VII and VIII short but prominent processes are 

 present between the setigerous and uncigerous tori, just behind the 

 setae Hne. A small sense-organ may be found in a corresponding posi- 

 tion in relation to most of the posterior parapodia. 



Setae begin on IV as a small tuft high up at the foot of the dorsal fold. 

 On all remaining somites the parapodia are ventro-lateral, but as the 

 uncigerous ridges are much longer on the anterior than the posterior 

 thoracic somites, the slender setae are at first more elevated in position, 

 and gradually sink as the imcigerous tori diminish in extent. The 

 abdominal parapodia have the base contracted and the dorsal angle 

 somewhat produced. 



Slender setae are fomid on 17 somites, from IV to XX inclusive, are 

 rather few in number, especially on IV, and are always arranged in a 

 short compact vertical row. The shafts are pale j^ellow, fibrous, rather 

 long, more or less strongly curved in a sigmoid fashion toward the end, 

 with a mucronate tip, below which each side is proAided for a short 

 distance with a rather broad, dehcately striated wing with entire 

 margin terminated rather abruptly at its distal end. Different setae 

 differ greatly in their curvature and the extent of the A\ings, some being 

 nearty straight with ahnost sAinmetrical wings, others almost angulated 

 with the greatest width of the A\ings alternating. Uncini are found 

 in all somites except the first four. In the thoracic region they face 

 alternately backward and forward, and interlock in a double row, are 

 nearly colorless, with shoii: somewhat triangular bases, a short neck, 

 narrow sinus, strongly hooked, stout, acute rostrum and an apical crest 

 of 5 transverse rows of spines, the lowermost consisting of about 4, the 

 others much more numerous, up to 10 or 12. In the abdominal region 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



the iincini have the number of apical spines greater and all face for- 

 ward in a single much-crowded row, wliich on XXY contains 65, wliile 

 a thoracic torus (XVIII) contains 160. 



A decided purplish tint remains anteriorly, otherwise the color is all 

 gone. 



North Japan, 3,775, 57 fms., type onl}'; Siuruga Bay, 3,378, 167 

 fms. 



Polymnia nesidensis (Del Ch.) Marenz. var. japonica nov. 



The Japanese examples differ constantly from the European as de- 

 scribed by V. Marenzeller, Saint Joseph and others in the longer stalks 

 and fewer branches of the gills and in the less elevated heads of the 

 uncini in wliich the rostrum and the contiguous margin of the base 

 are parallel. 



Sagami Bay, 3,704, 94 fms.; Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms.; Sendai 

 Ba}', 3,768, 25 fms., type. 



Loimia arborea sp. nov. (PI. XXVII, tigs. 81, 82.) 



The type of this species is 120 mm. long and nearly 10 mm. in diam- 

 eter in the thoracic region; it consists of 74 somites. Form robust, 

 with the anterior or thoracic region of 19 somites contributing nearly 

 •J of the entire length. 



Prostomium very broad, prominent, almost surrounding the mouth, 

 except for the space occupied by the small tubercle-like lower hp, 

 thrown into 3 deep vertical folds, of wliich the median is much higher 

 than the s^mimetrical laterals. Tentacles very few in number (many 

 perhaps detached, though the scars are not \'isible), small, broad and 

 flattened, the larger ones almost fohaceous in the contracted state, 

 marked at regular intervals by 4 or 5 transverse bands. No eyes \isi- 

 ble. Prostomimii ^"ith a prominent free anterior border ventrally and 

 laterall}^ ending above in a pair of conspicuous rounded lobes, just 

 internal to which, on the dorsal surface, is a pair of smooth rounded emi- 

 nences similar to those which occur on succeeding somites. 



Somites II and III are only obscurely distinct ventraUy, but quite 

 so, though short, dorsally; II has a free anterior border, much hke 

 the peristomium, and still more prominent dorso-lateral lobes, which 

 are, perhaps, contributed partly by III. Succeeding somites, both of 

 the thoracic and abdominal regions, are well separated, and more or 

 less distinctly annulated. ^Yell defined ventral plates occur on somites 

 V to XI, occupying the entire distance between the uncigerous tori, but 

 becoming rapidly smaller as the tori extend and shift to a more ventral 

 position ; the last one is divided by a cross furrow, the others are entire ; 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



on XII and XIII the plates are continued b}" an indistinct, much 

 WTinkled and subdivided glandular area, while anteriorly both IV and 

 III are glandularly thickened on the ventral surface. On the first 

 10 or 11 somites a smooth rounded glandular (?) elevation occurs on 

 each side just dorsad and mediad of the notopodial tubercle; on the 

 anterior postbranchial somites these tubercles run together into a low 

 longitudinal ridge. Anus terminal, large. 



There are 3 pairs of branchiae on II, III and I^", the first somewhat 

 the largest, and the third shghtly the smallest, all beautifully arbores- 

 cent, with about 6 main branches from a central stem, and numerous 

 and fine subdivisions "uith a somewhat spiral arrangement, resulting 

 in a rather acute conical form, which in Hfe miLst be very beautiful and 

 conspicuous. 



The third somite bears a dorsal setigerous tubercle only on its dorso- 

 lateral angles; the next 16 have dorsal setigerous tubercles and ventral 

 uncigerous tori. The latter are at first high up, but gradually assume a 

 more ventral position, until the last 9 are almost entirely on the ventral 

 surface, and the last 7 or 8 are separated by a median interspace not 

 exceeding their own transverse extent, which increases from before 

 caudad. 



Slender setae in a dense tuft, arranged more or less in the form of 

 an arc or horseshoe open ventrally or anteriorly. They are of two 

 kinds: simple colorless capillary setae, not especially slender, and glis- 

 tening straw-colored lance-shaped setae, with strongly fibriUated shaft, 

 and the end broadh' margined on one side, narrowly on the other, both 

 flanges reaching nearly to the tapering pointed tip. and marked with 

 oblique fibrillse, which sometimes wear into a slight fringe, especially 

 on the broader margin. 



On somites IV to XIX the uncini are arranged in 2 rows, opposite 

 and facing each other, when retracted, in a groove ; on the a):)dominal 

 segments they form a single short row facing the head on the extreme 

 end of the uncigerous process. Their nmnber is very great in the pos- 

 terior thoracic segments, the posterior row on XIX containing 260 

 and the anterior row evidently a considerably greater number. As 

 in other species of the genus the imcini are broad, flat pectinate plates, 

 the thoracic ones very constantly bearing 5 long sharp curved pro- 

 cesses, with a rudimentary apical 6th, and a minute tooth between the 

 first spine and the anterior muscular process of the base ; the abdominal 

 imcini have the 6th process usually well developed and the muscular 

 processes more pronounced. 



Suruga Bay, 3,723, 13-16 fms.. type only. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



Trichobranclius bibranchiatus sp. nov. (PI. XXVII, figs. S3-S5.) 



The largest specimen has a length of 16 mm. for 29 somites, the cau- 

 dal end being absent; the thoracic diameter is 2 mm.; almost double 

 the abdominal. 



Prostomiimi restricted to the region above the mouth, bilobate, con- 

 sisting of a pair of rounded tentaculiferous cushions incompletely 

 separated posteriorly. No eyes. Tentacles very numerous, forming 

 a thick tangled mass above the mouth; they are of two forms, slender 

 ones, which are by far the most nmnerous, arising from the entire mar- 

 gin of the cushions, and much larger ones, the ends of which are often 

 broad and flat, whose origin is confined to the anterior and median 

 region of the cushion border. 



Peristomium simple, short above, much enlarged below to form a 

 very high thick lip, the exact limits of which are uncertain owing to 

 the partial protrusion of the buccal chamber. Connected -with the 

 peristomium and probably peristomial in origin is a pair of very wide, 

 thin, delicately nerved, wing-like lobes, which arise on each side from 

 beneath the prostomium and extend prominently laterally and ante- 

 riorly to a distance considerably exceeding the length of the prosto- 

 mium. The remaining somites are regular and distinctly marked, with- 

 out collars or lateral lobes to any of the anterior ones ; the setigerous ones 

 of 2 annuli, of which the anterior is usually the largest and bears the 

 tori. The thoracic region, comprising the first 20 somites, is thick 

 and quite terete, the abdominal suddenly contracted to | the diameter 

 of the thoracic, and flattened or even longitudinally grooved on the 

 ventral surface. Two pairs of simple unbranched gills arise from the 

 dorsum of somites II and III ; they are slender and tapering and their 

 length considerably exceeds the greatest diameter of the body. The 

 thoracic setigerous tori are elevated flattened tubercles, the uncigerous 

 tori very small and low; abdominal uncigerous tori also very small but 

 quite conspicuously elevated. 



Slender setae begin on VI and continue to XX, or for 15 somites. 

 They form a short vertical rank of 14 to 20, usually in pairs of 1 large 

 and 1 small seta. Setse almost colorless, slightly curved, tapering, 

 pointed, with entire tip and narrowly doubly winged margins. Uncini 

 also begin on VI, and occur on all the following somites. They are 

 always arranged in a single row, with their points directed forward 

 and, on the thoracic somites, toward the dorsum; the series is slightly 

 caudad of the slender setae on the thoracic somites and begins almost in 

 contact with them. The first torus (on VI) is short, and contains about 

 14 uncini, the number increasing to 32 on IX, and decreasing after XVI 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



to 23 on XX, the last thoracic somite. The thoracic unciiii spread in a 

 fan-shaped figure ; they are colorless or pale brown, long, slender, with 

 curved somewhat striated stem, increasing slightly in diameter to 

 the surface of the body, then suddenly contracting to a narrow neck 

 beyond which even more abruptly expanding into the remarkably bird- 

 like head, with a blunt beak and a crest of 5 or 6 finely divided trans- 

 verse rows of very numerous teeth, together having a nearly spherical 

 form as viewed from above. The abdominal uncini number about 35 

 in the anterior somites, and are arranged in a marginal row about the 

 torus, to the center of which the slender ligaments converge. They 

 are nearly colorless, with short, broad, nearly triangular bases, upon 

 which the only slightly expanded head is sessile; rostrum prominent 

 and above it 2 or sometimes 3 transverse rows of numerous spines. 



Station not given on label. 



There is considerable conflict between the several published accounts 

 of T. glacialis Mgrn., but the present species differs decidedly from 

 those described from typical European localities in the entire absence 

 of eyes, the wider cephalic wings, constancy of 2 pairs of gills, the form 

 of the uncini and greater number of slender setae. 

 Terebellides stroemi Sars. 



The typical variety of this nearly cosmopolitan species occurs in Sen- 

 dai Bay, 3,767, 14 to 18 fms., and probably in Suruga Bay, 3,724, 

 20 fms. 



Var. japonica nov. 



All of the specimens of Terebellides taken in Sagami Bay differ from 

 the typical variety in having a much smaller number of prostomial ten- 

 tacles and wider margins to the slender setae. They have a length up 

 to 70 mm. The proportions of the gill lobes vary considerably; and 

 in one example from 3,704, the posterior lobes are undeveloped. 



Sagami Bay, 3.695, 175-190 fms.. types; 3,698, 153 fms.; 3,704, 

 94 fms.; 3,738, 167 fms. 



AMPH ARETID^ . 

 Amphicteis japonica Mcintosh. 



Two fine specimens taken at station 3.771 are much larger than those 

 originally described by Mcintosh from south of Yedo; they measure 

 45 mm. in length. The branchiae are perfect and are round as in 

 A. gunneri, not flattened as doubtfully stated by Mcintosh; the uncini 

 are also somewhat narrower than is figured for the types, but other 

 specimens conform exactly to the originals in this respect. The tube is 

 tough and parchment-hke, and covered with a thick coating of fine silt. 



I 




1903.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms.; Sendai Bay and northward, 3,767, 

 14-18 fms.; 3,771, 61 fnis. 



AMPHICTENID^. 

 Cistenides hyperborea Mgrn. 



Off Kamchatka this species was fomid in very great numbers on 

 a soft muddy bottom in shallow waters, and a single small example in 

 Sendai Bay. The paleoli vary somewhat in number and length, but 

 are almost invariably 12 or 13 on each side. In the specimens from 

 station 3,777 they are so thickly incrusted with a brownish deposit as 

 to appear club-shaped. 



Sendai Bay, 3,767, 14-18 fms., one small example; off Kamchatka, 

 3,776, 3,777, 3,780, 12-13 fms. 



MALDANID^. 

 Nicomache (?) inornata sp. nov. (PI. XXVII, figs. 86, 87, 88.) 



Head and 14 anterior setigerous somites only known, these having 

 a length of 55 mm. and a diameter of 3 mm. Owing to the absence 

 of the anal funnel the generic reference is doubtful, the form of the 

 setse having chiefly led to the selection of Nicomache rather than Lum- 

 hriclymene or a related genus. 



Prostomium and peristomium completely coalesced into a rather 

 slender head, which is twice as long as thick and truncated at a rather 

 acute angle; prostomial lobe or palpode pointed, curved dorsad, con- 

 tinuous with both median ridge and lateral margins of cephahc plate ; 

 cephalic plate indistinct, its posterior half somewhat gibbous, the an- 

 terior concave, passing with rounded margins into the dorsal and lat- 

 eral surfaces of the head, no produced marginal folds; median ridge 

 about ^ length of cephahc plate, rather low and broad, passing anteri- 

 orly into palpode, posteriorly indistinctly into gibbous portion of head; 

 sensory grooves well marked on each side of ridge and external to these 

 again triangular depressed areas bounded by the lateral margins of 

 cephalic plate. Peristomial region of head slightly compressed; mouth 

 rather large, ventral, bounded posteriorly by a prominent pouting, but 

 rather narrow, lip. 



First 4 setigerous somites short, cylindrical, decreasing slightly in 

 length, each with an anterior annular ridge just in front of the seta 

 line; succeeding segments longer and more slender, but never much 

 elongated, boundaries very obscure after VIII; somites VI to IX with 

 anterior glandular rings but no distinct collars ; all somites except the 

 first 5 more or less marked with lateral vertical grooves and folds. 

 Head and anterior region of body very smooth. Tori indistinct and 

 laterad on anterior somites, thick swollen and more ventral after, IX. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Capillaiy setse of 2 kinds, both few in number, in the dorsal bundles; 

 those found on all setigerous somites are relativelj^ large, fibrillated, 

 tapering, the tips acute and sometimes curved, with a short distinct 

 flange on one side. Fringed capillary setae are found in the middle so- 

 mites; colorless, very slender, with elongated tips, with rather widely 

 separated, short hairs closely appressed to, and usually arranged in 

 pairs on both sides of the shaft of the seta. Farther back these are 

 replaced by setse which are doubly winged at the base of the exposed 

 portion, beyond which are extremely long faintly fringed capillary tips. 



Crochets yellow, ^\ith curved tapering fibrous stems, which are not 

 shouldered and only slightly enlarged at the surface of the body; 

 exposed portion long and slender, the head not much enlarged, but 

 provided with a very long, sharp beak, the tip of which is slightly re- 

 ciu'ved; accessory teeth 4 to 6, the first large and typically standing 

 sharply apart from the beak, the others also slender and distinct, except 

 the 1 or 2 smallest, which are more obscure and fibrous ; guard greatly 

 developed, in 2 lateral halves, each formed of about 23 strong hairs 

 joined together above the teeth by a membrane-like band beyond which 

 the hairs are much finer and may constitute a delicate fibrillated web, 

 arching over the basal half (not the tip) of the principal hook and meet- 

 ing the opposite half of the guard above ; no distinct subrostral process. 

 On somite V the crochets are only bent, not hooked, with one large 

 and one smaller blunt vitreous process, and a group of small fibrous 

 ones; guard, if perfect in the example studied, consisting of a few 

 gently curved subrostral hairs reaching only as far as the point of the 

 principal spine. 



Acicula bright yellow, one each on ventral side of tori of II, III and 

 IV, stout, tapering to a blunt point, and fibrous. 



Tubes fragile, of coarse, dark-colored sand grains and bits of shell. 



Suruga Bay, 3,713, 65 fms.; 3,725, 13 fms., type. 

 Clymene mirabilonga sp. nov. (PI. XXVII, figs. 89-93.) 



Head uniannulate, the prostomium and peristomium completely 

 united, short, somewhat compressed, vertical diameter equal to gi'eat- 

 est length on ventral side; mouth ventral, large, bomided posteriorly 

 and laterally by a rugous crescentric fold, anteriorly by the Avrinkled 

 base of the rather narrowly triangular, pointed, prostomial lobe or 

 palpode; cephalic plate very broad, nearly orbicular when the limbate 

 margin is spread, broadly oval when viewed from above with margin 

 in normal position, the margin divided by a pair of clefts into anterior 

 and posterior lobes, of which the latter is f as long as the former; pos- 

 terior lobe suberect, faintly divided by median and lateral eniargina- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



tions into 4 slightly marked sub-lobes; anterior lobes also sviberect, 

 much higher than posterior, with smooth, rounded, entire margins 

 anteriorly meeting the palpode, from which they are separated by a 

 distinct sulcus; median ridge nearly | length of cephalic plate, very 

 narrow, high and prominent, with a sharp compressed summit, of equal 

 width throughout, ending anteriorly in a short palpode about 3 times 

 its width but still narrow; sense organs bounding median ridge rather 

 broad, shallow depressions, included with the ridge in a narrow lyre- 

 shaped area occupying the middle ^ of the cephalic plate exclusive of 

 the limbate margin, with its base dorso-caudad, while the arms fade 

 out anteriorly to the sides of the palpode. 



Head and anterior somites divided into numerous small raised areas 

 which vmder a lens have an appearance and lustre like the human skin. 

 First 4 setigerous somites short, diameter and length about equal, 

 and length slight^ decreasing to the 4th, first very broadly attached 

 to the peristomium; from the 5th setigerous somite (VI) the length 

 increases to X, though IX, which is separated from X only by a very 

 obscure furrow, is somewhat shorter than VIII ; no specially developed 

 collar, though each anterior somite is extended into a low fold which 

 somewhat embraces its predecessor, and which is strongly glandular 

 on VII, VIII and IX; last 3 setigerous somites (intervening ones im- 

 known) decreasing in length, cylindrical, the last in this specimen much 

 shorter than thick, but probably it and the following achaetous somites 

 are considerably contracted; 2 preanal and anal somites very short, 

 shghtly telescoped, with posterior margin prominent, and on the anal 

 somite forming a sharp annular shoulder from the center of which the 

 anal funnel arises. Anal funnel with a short stalk, having a diameter 

 of about ^ the body of the anal somite, but spreading in a low corolla 

 form to the diameter of the latter, in length equalling the anal and one 

 preanal somite; its margin regularly denticulate with 43 regular, 

 pointed, triangular teeth longer and narrower than those of Axiothea 

 campanulata, with an occasional one bifid, and none in the neural line, 

 which is very distinct to the edge of the funnel; anus central, sur- 

 rounded by minute papillae and radiating ridges, but not elevated on 

 a large central papilla. The relation of the funnel to the anal somite in 

 the type specimen is probably due largely to contraction. 



First eight setigerous tori on anterior end of somites, the others 

 posterior; anterior tori very low and obscure, becoming swollen and 

 conspicuous by X ; on last 3 setigerous somites prominent and reach- 

 ing well ventrad, where they are separated by a median distance of 

 about ^ their length, the interspace being occupied by a glandular area; 

 31 




482 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



tori and glandular areas remain on the 2 preanal somites, and also 

 slightly indicated on the anal but bear no setae. 



Peristomium and last 3 somites without setae. First 3 setigerous 

 somites with a dorsal tuft of slender setae and a single ventral aciculum, 

 but no crochets; other setigerous somites wdth a small dorsal fascicle 

 of slender setae and a ventral series of crochets, the number of which 

 increases for several somites caudad. 



The resemblance between the setae of this species and Nicomache 

 capensis is noteworthy. Slender setae of 3 forms, the first, which occurs 

 on all setigerous somites, is pale greenish-yellow, with a core of par- 

 allel fibres, long, tapering, with a distinct wing on one margin and a 

 much narrower one on the other, both leaving a long very fine tip free. 

 The second form is confined to an undetermined number of anterior 

 somites as far as X; colorless, exceedingly slender and verj^ delicately 

 doubly fringed. The third form is foimd only posteriorly, the anterior 

 limit being undetermined ; colorless, with a long, slender shaft of nearly 

 uniform diameter, the terminal part of which bears rather broad chaff- 

 like bearded processes, the exact arrangement of which camiot be deter- 

 mined but appears to be singly spiral toward the tip, paired toward 

 the base, the whole closely resembling the fruiting head of certain 

 grasses. 



Anterior acicula simple, stout, pointed, slightly curved fibrous spines 

 of a yellow color. 



Crochets yellow, with slender, tapering, curved, very fibrous stems, 

 strongly shouldered at surface of body, then constricted to a narrow 

 brittle neck, and again expanded terminally into a coarse broad head ; 

 terminal part unusually prominent and consequently frequently 

 broken off; principal hook prominent, acute, rather slender and, except 

 at the base, non-fibrillated ; supported and surmounted by 4-6 spines, 

 of which the first is large and vitreous, the others much smaller and, 

 like the expanded portion of the head, strongly fibrillated; beard 

 greatly developed, consisting of a transverse row of a small number of 

 tapering sickle-shaped hairs which arise from a stout transverse basal 

 plate, supported on a slight subrostral shoulder, and curve high over 

 the apex of the principal hook to end in fine curled tips above its base. 

 The anterior crochets differ only in the position of the beard, which 

 arises much closer to the rostrum than in the more posterior ones, 

 and in their somewhat smaller size. 



The head and tail ends of the type specimens were found several 

 miles apart. 



Suruga Bay, 3,714, 60 fms., head; 3,725, 13 fms., caudal end. 




1903 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



Maldane sarsi Mgrn. 



This species has already been recorded by Mcintosh from south of 

 Yedo and by Wirin from the Vega collections in Bering Sea. The 

 "Albatross" examples are of small size and are referred somewhat 

 doubtfully to this species as they differ from the published figures 

 and descriptions in several respects. The palpode is much broader 

 with very numerous eyes, the cephalic plate inclined to the longitudinal 

 axis at a very acute angle, the median ridge posteriorly depressed and 

 obscure, the anal plate broader and each dorsal angle of the ventral 

 lobe produced into a distinct spine. There are also some peculiarities 

 of the setae. The anterior end, and especially the head, is generally 

 closely spotted with reddish-brown. 



Sagami Bay, 3,695, 175-190 fms.; 3,798, 153 fms. 

 Maldane coronata sp. nov. (PI. XXVII, figs. &i, 95, 96.) 



This is a large species, the type of which measures 130 mm. long by 

 5 mm. in greatest diameter in a contracted state, while fragments 

 of other specimens from the same locality are more than t^^'ice as 

 large, so that a length of 300 or 400 mm. in life is not improbable. 



Head acute, cephalic plate narrowly ovate, produced anteriorly into 

 a pointed thin process or palpode, limbate margin prominent, divided 

 on each side by a lateral cleft which passes into a deep slit on the 

 side of the peristomium; the posterior half high, erect, its margin 

 coarsely serrate with 15-22 teeth, which are large anteriorly, and pro- 

 gressively diminish in size toward the dorsal mid-line; anterior half 

 lower, more spreading, passing into the anterior palpode without 

 sharp demarkation, its margin bearing on each side from 4 to 7 (com- 

 monly 5) stiff processes, decreasing in size from behind forward, and 

 the largest about ^ the width of head, often asymmetrical and some- 

 times bifurcated; median ridge moderate, about ^ cephalic plate, its 

 posterior end about opposite the most anterior marginal process, an- 

 teriorly ending in much broader palpode, rather low and wide but 

 proininent and sharply defined by deep, narrow, sensory grooves. 

 Peristomium short, biarmulated by the deep lateral grooves above 

 alluded to, which cut off a small incomplete anterior ring. 



All follomng preanal somites (19 in number) are setigerous; II to 

 V short and biannulate, the anterior annulus the larger ; VI and VII 

 transitional, the others miiannulate and elongated, the last few dimin- 

 ishing somewhat in length, the furrows indistinct. 



Anus dorsal, external to funnel, between this and a prominent 

 integumental fold which covers it. Anal funnel veiy large, divided 

 by a pair of obhque lateral clefts into dorsal and ventral lobes ; ventral 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



lobe the smaller but constituting most of the funnel proper, its margin 

 variable in exact shape, but always somewhat uneven and irregular, 

 crenulated or shghtly toothed ; dorsal lobe much more prominent and 

 consisting cliiefly of a large, flaring platform-hke structure each side 

 of wliich has 3 blunt angular marginal prominences, bearing as many 

 slender filamentous processes nearly as long as the anal funnel. One 

 very large specimen, of wliich only the posterior end is preserved, 

 differs in ha\dng the ventral lobe very finely denticulated, the dorsal 

 less flaring, with an even margin and bearing 11 filaments much 

 shorter than usual. It may prove to be representative of a distinct 

 species as other sjjecimens of nearly equal size are quite typical in 

 these respects. 



On the first 4 setigerous segments the setae are borne on tliin wing- 

 like vertically elongated ridges, on the remainder on thick swollen 

 tori, which are especially prominent on VII, VIII and IX and on XVII, 

 XVIII and XIX ; on V, VI and VII the tori are united by transverse 

 ventral thickenings, but elsewhere are quite distinct and entirely lateral. 

 The tori are anterior on the first 9, posterior on the remaining setigerous 

 somites. 



Somite II bears only capillary setse. III, TV and V a small ventral 

 series of about 6 or 7 crochets, in addition to the slender setaa, the other 

 somites long ventral series of crochets, varying from 37 to 41 in each 

 group on specimens of average size, and a small dorsal tuft of slender 

 setae. 



Capillary setae have a hyaline cortex and a slightly yello'^ish fibrous 

 core, the more superficial fibres of which are ver}^ accuratel}' parallel, 

 tip very acute but tapers mostly in the middle ^ of its exposed part; 

 wingless on the first setigerous somite, but farther back the cortex is 

 produced into a narrow flange on the dorsal side. 



Crochets stout, stems long, curved, tapering, with a distinct shoulder 

 at the surface of the body and beyond it a narrow region which gradu- 

 ally broadens into the beaked head. Those of the posterior regions 

 have a strong transparent hook, the base of which is concealed in a 

 hood-like covering of fibrillated spines wiiich rise into a crest of four 

 principal teeth; guard poorl}' developed, of only 8 or 10 curved hairs 

 united for a considerable part of their length by an intervening deli- 

 cate web; subrostral process smaU. Anterior crochets on II to V 

 much less strongly hooked ; those in the middle of the series with a large 

 terminal process bent nearly at right angles to the shaft, about 4 

 smaller fibrous processes, and a beard; the dorsalmost similar but only 

 shghtly bent. 



Color uniform pale grayish-brown; tori pinkish-orange. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 485 



An abundant species represented by numerous examples from the 

 following stations: Sagami Bay, 3,695, 175-190 fms.; 3.698, 153 fms.; 

 3,704, 94 fms. ; North Japan, 3,771, 62 fms.; 3,775, 57 fms., type. 



Praxilla challengeriae Mcintosh? 



A small fragment from the middle of the body bears setae and crochets 

 exactly hke those of this species, but the reference is quite uncertain. 

 The originals were dredged off the coast of Portugal. 



Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms. 



Axiothea campanulata sp. nov. (PI. XXVII, figs. 97, 98, 99.) 



A single complete example represents this fine species. The length 

 is 185 mm., the greatest diameter 6 mm., the number of somites 23, 

 of which nineteen are setigerous. 



Prostomium and peristomium completely coalesced to form the 

 head, which is truncate at an angle of about 45°, and is twice as 

 long below as above. Cephahc plate broad oval in outUne; the free 

 margin nearh' eciually developed all around except where interrupted 

 anteriorly by the free end of the median ridge, but more erect pos- 

 teriorly, its margin smooth and entire, except for a shallow notch and 

 reentering angle on each side about ^ of the distance from the anterior 

 end and opposite the posterior end of median ridge, anterior to which 

 the margin rises shghtly to form the anterior free lobes ; median ridge 

 pronounced, but short, reaching from the anterior end for | length of 

 plate and encUng in front in a small rounded, not expanded, lobe, which 

 occupies the opening in the limbate margin at that point, bounded lat- 

 erally by deep, narrow longitudinal chinks (nuchal sense-organs), from 

 which a broader transverse groove passes to the lateral margin on each 

 side, meeting it just in front of the notch. Mouth directed ventrad, 

 surrounded by a regularly ribbed ring or wreath which is incomplete 

 only anteriorl}', the interval being occupied by the wrinkled base of 

 the nearly triangular prostomial lobe (palpode), the rounded apex 

 of which curves upward to join the anterior end of the median cephalic 

 ridge. 



First 7 setigerous somites cylindrical, short, diameter and length 

 about equal, no especially developed collar on any, but the anterior 

 margin of each somewhat prolonged as a fold enveloping the preceding 

 somite, especially on the ventral side; anterior fold of somites V to 

 VIII glandularly thickened. The next apparent somite is elongated 

 and bears setse at both anterior and posterior ends, whereas the pre- 

 ceding somites bear them anteriorly and the succeeding posteriorly 

 only, and therefore, although there is no indication of a furrow, is con- 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



sidered to represent somites IX and X, forming a transition region 

 between the 2 ends of the worm. Succeeding segments become nar- 

 rower to the anal, but increase in length to XV, beyond which they 

 gradually decrease; their form is somewhat club-shaped, being nar- 

 row anteriorly, increasing to the region of the glandular tori near the 

 posterior end, and again abruptly diminishing; in contraction the pos- 

 terior end of each probably invaginable, forming low collars in reverse 

 of those at anterior end. Somites VIII to XVIII marked laterally b}' 

 a series of vertical furrows and folds, which become longer caudad; 

 dorsum and venter smooth; anal and preanal somites marked by 

 circular grooves and ridges extending all around. Neural line distinct 

 for entire length, ending on margin of anal funnel between two teeth. 



Anal funnel very large, nearly equalUng widest part of body , regularly 

 bell-glass-shaped, somewhat longer than wide, margin completely and 

 very regularly encircled by 31 short, triangular teeth of equal length, 

 two of them being double, and the mid-ventral line being an interval 

 between two teeth. Anus prominent, on a radially ridged papilla in 

 the centre of the funnel, the cavity of which is rather shallow. 



Setse are present on 19 somites, the peristomium, anal and 2 preanal 

 somites being achaetous, though the latter retain the glandular tori. 

 Setigerous tori are all situated on the sides of the ventral half of the 

 body ; those for capillary setse short, rather prominent non-glandular, 

 double folds, from the cleft between wliich the setse appear ; uncigerous 

 tori narrow, raised ridges on first 3 setigerous somites, elsewhere glandu- 

 lar elevations cleft at the apex, becoming long, thick and prominent 

 posteriorly, and those of each pair on VI to X and XX and XXI 

 united by glandular rings. 



Capillary setse only are found on II, and both capillary setse and 

 uncini on all other setigerous somites. The largest number of the 

 former occurs on II, decreases to IV, while V to XIX bear only a small 

 but prominent dorsal fasciculus. Uncini are numerous from their first 

 appearance, and increase in number from about 20 on III to 48 on 

 somites of the posterior half, the tori having meanwhile increased to 

 3 times the length of those on III and extended so far ventrad as to 

 be separated by a median distance of less than h their length. 



Capillary setse pale greenish-yellow, the slender exposed portions 

 colorless with a vitreous cortex and a fibrous centre of remarkably 

 regular arrangement, very fine, straight, tapering, acutely pointed, 

 and deUcately winged on the dorsal side on all somites. 



Uncini yellow, somewhat smaller on the anterior and ventral por- 

 tions of the posterior tori, those in the latter position differing some- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



what in shape. Typical uncini with rather slender curved internally 

 fibrous stems, without a distinct shoulder but rather gradually thick- 

 ened on one side, external to the body contracted in diameter and bent 

 dorsad, then broadly expanded into the terminal head, which is pro- 

 vided with one very large scarcely fibrous hook supported by usually 

 4 successively smaller fibrous ones, which do not form a cap-hke struc- 

 ture; guard or beard moderately developed, consisting of about 20 

 stiff slightly curved hairs, somewhat divergent from a prominent 

 subrostral process and enclosing the tip of the principal hooked 

 process. 



The type only known from Suruga Bay, 3,739, 55-65 fms. 



OHLORHiEMID^. 

 Stylaroides borealis (Hansen). 



A single specimen which conforms closely to the description of this 

 North Atlantic species, but is fully three times the length of the origi- 

 nal specimens taken off the coast of Norway, was dredged at station 

 3,775, North Japan, in 57 fms. 



STERNASPID^. 

 Sternaspis scutata (Ranzani) Otto. 



The only difference which can be detected between these and Euro- 

 pean specimens is that the gill plates of the former are slightly more 

 prolonged anteriorly. 



Suruga Bay and vicinity, 3,709, 173-260 fms.; 3,739, 55-65 fms. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Explanation of Plates XXIII, XXIV, XXV, XXVI, XXVII. 



Unless indicated otherwise all setae figured are from somite X or that immediate 



neighborhood. 



PixATE XXIII, Fig. 1. — Eumidea cceca, terminal portion of a neuropodial seta. 



X 480. la, the articulation of the same, X 820. 

 Fig. 2. — Po/2/noasewrm??a, middle neuropodial. X 332. 

 Fig 3. — The same, dorsal neuropodial. X 332. 

 Fig. 4. — Scalesetosus formosus, dorsal neuropodial. X 480. 

 Fig. 5. — Scalesetosus formosus, ventral neuropodial, outline only. X 480. 

 Fig. 6. — Scalesetosus formosus, notopodial. X 480. 

 Fig. 7. — Lepidonotus branchiferus, middle neuropodial. X 130. 

 Fig. 8. — Lepidojiotus branchiferus, guard of a neuropodial seta in process of 



being shed. X 130. 

 Fig. 9. — Lepidonotus branchiferus, portion from the middle of a notopodial. 



X 586. 

 Fig. 10. — Lepidonotus chitoniformis , middle neuropodial. X 130. 

 Fig. 11. — Lepidonotus chitoniformis, portion of a notopodial. X 586. 

 Fig. 12. — Lepidonotus cceloris, middle neuropodial. X 332. 

 Fig. 13. — Lepidonotus vexillarius, dorsal notopodial. X 480. 

 Fig. lA.— Lepidonotus rexiUarius, portion of middle notopodial. X 480. 

 Fig. 15. ^Lepidonotus vexillarius, ventral neuropodial. X 332. 

 Fig. 16.- — Hylosynda carinata, middle neuropodial. X 332. 

 Fig. 17. — Hylosynda carinata, notopodial. X 332. 

 Fig. 18. — Hylosynda magnacornuta, middle neuropodial. X 110. 



Plate XXIV, Fig. 19. — Lcetmatonice pellucida, notopodial. X 74. 

 Fig. 20. — Lcetmatonice pellucida, neuropodial. X 74. 

 Fig. 21. — Restio cenu^, stout neuropodial. X 332. 

 Fig. 22. — Restio cenus, slender neuropodial. X 332. 

 Fig. 23. — Restio anus, slender seta from anterior rank. X 332. 

 Fig. 24. — Restio cenus, capillary seta. X 332. 



All of the setse figured in figs. 21-24 are from somite XV. 

 Fig. 25. — Nereis pusilla, middle notopodial. X 480. 

 Fig. 26. — Nereis pusilla, ventral nemropodial. X 480. 



Fig. 27. — Nereis pusilla, stout neuropodial from a posterior foot. X 480. 

 Fig. 28. — Nereis paucidentata , tj^jical notopodial. X 480. 

 Fig. 29. — Nereis paucidentata, ventral neuropodial. X 480. 

 Fig. 30. — Nereis paucidentata, stout posterior neuropodial. X 480. 

 Fig. 31. — Aricia fimbriata, one of the stouter anterior neuropodials. X 332. 

 Fig. 32. — Aricia fimbriata, a slender anterior neuropodial. X 332. 32a. A 



portion of the same. X 586. 

 Fig. 33. — Aricia fimbriata, portion of a canaliculated posterior neuropodial 



represented as seen in optical section. X 820. 

 Fig. 34. — Aricia fimbriata, portion of a capillary posterior notopodial. 



X 820. 

 Fig. 35. — Aricia fimbriata, an incomplete bifurcated notopodial. X 586. 



Plate XXV, Fig. 36. — Eunice northioidea, compound seta from the middle' of 

 bundle. X 480. 

 Fig. 37. — Eunice northioidea, pectinate seta. X 480. 

 Fig. 38. — Eunice northioidea, uncinus from posterior foot. X 332. 

 Fig. 39. — £wnw^««(^i/!da, compound seta from middle of bundle. X 480. 

 Fig. 40. — Eunice quinquifida, pectinate seta. X 480. 

 Fig. 41. — Eu7iice quinquifida, uncinus from LX. X 332. 

 Fig. 42. — Eunice mucronata, compound seta from X. X 480. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



Fig. 43. — Eunice mucronata, compound seta from LVI. X 480. 



Fig. 44. — Eunice mucronata, pectinate seta. X 480. 



Fig. 45. — Eunice mucronata, uncinus from XLI. X 332. 



Fig. 46. — Exmice gracilis, compound seta. X 480. 



Fig. 47. — Eunice gracilis, pectinate seta from XLI. X 480. 



Fig. 48. — Eunice gracilis, uncinus from posterior foot. X 332. 



Fig. 49. — Eunice medicina, compound seta. X 480. 



Fig. 50. — Eunice medicina, pectinate seta. X 480. 



Fig. 51. — Eunice medicina, imcinus from LV. X 332. 



Fig. 52. — Paranorthia hrevicornuta, compound seta from 3d foot. X 820. 



Fig. 53. — Paranorthia hrevicornuta, compound seta from 4th foot. X 480. 



Fig. 54. — Paranorthia hrevicornuta, simple marginal seta from 10th foot. 



X 332. 

 Fig. 55. — Paranorthia hrevicornuta, pectinate seta from 13th foot. X 480. 

 Fig. 56. — Paranorthia hrevicornuta, uncinus from 11th foot. X 480. 

 Fig. 57. — Northia geophiliformis, part of appendix of compound seta, from 



IV. X 480. 

 Fig. 58. — Northia geophiliformis, pectinate seta from XXXV. X 480. 

 Fig. 59. — Northia geophiliformis, uncinus from XL. X 480. 

 Fig. 60. — Onuphis cirrohranchiata, margined seta from dorsal ramus of XII. 



X 332. 

 Fig. 61. — Onuphis cirrohranchiata, uncinus from V. X 332. 

 Fig. 62. — Onuphis cirrohranchiata, uncinus from XXVII. X 332. 

 Fig. 63. — Onuphis cirrohranchiata, funnel-shaped seta from XII. X 480. 



Plate XXVI, Fig. 64. — Laranda robusta, seta from dorsal group of XX. X 130. 



Fig. 65. — Laranda rohxista, aciculum and seta from ventral group of a pos- 

 terior somite. X 130. 



Fig. 66. — Notocirrus zonata, seta from dorsal group of a middle somite. 

 X 332. 



Fig. 67. — Notocirrus zonata, one from ventral group of same. X 332. 



Fig. 68. — Ninoe palmata, marginal seta from ventral bundle of XII. X 332 



Fig. 69. — Ninoe palmata, similar one from dorsal bundle of XC. X 480. 



Fig. 70. — Ninoe palmata, margined and hooded imcinus from ventral bundle 

 of XII. X 480. 



Fig. 71. — Ninoe palmata, uncinus from XC. X 480. 



Fig. 72. — Cirratulus gihhosus, a notopodial group of one blimt spine and one 

 delicate fringed seta from LX. X 130. a, portion of the latter. X 586. 



Fig. 73. — Chcetozone spinosa, from XXV. X 130. a and 



b, enlarged portions of the two setae at the points indicated. X 586. 



Fig. 74. — Chcetozone spinosa, spine from XCVI. X 130. 



Fig. 75. — Goniada foliacea, a compound neuropodial of average length. 

 X 586. 



Fig. 76. — Goniada foliacea, a notopodial from L. X 586. 



Fig. 77. — Goniada distorta, a compound neuropodial seta. X 332. 



Fig. 78. — Amphitrite hifurcata, an uncinus. X 332. 



Fig. 79. — Scionella japonica, an average margined seta from the middle of 

 the bundle. X 332. 



Fig. 80. — Scionella japonica, an uncinus. X 332. 



Plate XXVII, Fig. 81. — Lowiea arfcorea, a margined seta from XV. X 110. a, 

 portion of the same. X 586. 

 Fig. S2.—Loimia arhorea, imcinus from XV. X 332. 

 Fig. 83. — Trichohranchus hihranchiatus , slender seta. X 332. 

 Fig. 84. — Trichohranchus hihranchiatus, uncinus. X 820. 

 Fig. 85. — Trichohranchus hihranchiatus, uncinus from XXII. X 820. 

 Fig. 86. — NicomacheC!) iJiornata, -portion of capillary seta from XV. X 480. 

 Fig. 87, — NicomacheC!) inornata, end of crochet from XV. X 332. 

 Fig. 88. — NicomacheC^) inornata, end of crochet from V. X 332. 

 Fig. 89. — Clymene mirabilonga, simple capillar^'. X 74. 

 Fig 90. Clymene mirabilonga, pinnately fringed capillary. X 480. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Fig. 91. — Clymene mirabilonga, spirally fringed capillary. X 110 



Fig. 92. — Clymene mirabilonga, entire crochet from a posterior thoracic 



segment. X 32. 

 Fig. 93. — Clymene mirabilonga, terminal portion of the same. X 332. 

 Fig. 94. — Maldane coronata, capiUarj"- seta from III. X 110. 

 Fig. 95. — Maldane coronata, end of dorsal crochet from III. X 332. 

 Fig. 96. — Maldane coronata, entire crochet from X. X 332. 

 Fig. 97. — Axiothea campanulata, capillary seta from II. X HO. 

 Fig. 98. — Axiothea campanulata, entire crochet. X 74. 

 Fig. 99. — Axiothea campanulata, exposed portion of the same. X 332. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES ON AN ANT. 



BY ADELE M. FIELDE. 



In a preceding paper/ I described experiments sho\\'ing that when 

 pupae and the ant- workers hatching therefrom are maintained in segre- 

 gation, such ants refuse to affiliate with workers of their colony who 

 are forty days or more older than themselves; and that ant-workers 

 thus reared in segregation will not accept a queen much older than 

 their mother. I beheve it to be proven that the cause of the hostility 

 of one colony to those of another colony of the same species and variety^ 

 is a difference of contact-odor coincident with difference of age in the 

 individuals composing the colony. The queen-mother alone deter- 

 mining the inherent primitive odor of each of her offspring. 



I recently undertook the herein recorded experiments with a view 

 to ascertaining whether any of the rays of hght to which the ants are 

 exposed in seeking food so affects their metabolism as to produce that 

 difference of odor which is the cause of hostility between colonies of 

 different age. 



On August 21, 1902, I put five queens and 200 workers, all of one 

 colony and without young, into each of five new Fielde nests .^ All 



'■ "Notes on an Ant," Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, December, 1902. 



^ The ants used for the experiments described in that paper and in the present 

 writing were Stenamma fulvum piceum. 



* "Portable Ant Nests," Biological Bulletin, Vol. 2, No. 2, 1900. An improve- 

 ment suggested by Dr. W. M. Wheeler in the making of these nests may be read 

 about in a note in his paper, " Etlinological Observations on an American Ant," 

 1903. He uses Diamond Cement for joining the glass portions of the nests. 

 Should that cement not be easily obtainable, Major's cement is also better than 

 glue. I used for one j^ear a nest stuck together by Major's cement, and then 

 immersed the nest in water for two weeks without loosening the glass parts. 



Dr. Wheeler also suggests the use of mica instead of glass in covering the hall- 

 ways or passages between compartments. I have found celluloid fihn also better 

 than the glass, and it is tougher than the mica. 



It is better to darken the nest by glueing black cloth over the outside walls 

 rather than by painting them, the cloth being more effective and more durable 

 than the paint. 



I also find that if a thin pane of orange-colored glass be used for the roofing, 

 instead of the ti-ansparent glass, the ants are little disturbed by the lifting of the 

 opaque outside cover, and that their behavior may then be studied with assur- 

 ance that it is the same as when they were in darkness. 



The ideal ant-nests would, I think, be secured were the patterns of the Fielde 

 nests reproduced in white porcelain. Such nests, topped with Turkish towelling, 

 which can easily be renewed when soiled, and with a roofing of orange-colored 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



the ants were freshly captured from a single wild nest. ^ly first arti- 

 ficial nest was roofed with transparent glass, and is hereinafter referred 

 to as the white nest. The second nest was roofed with double panes of 

 indigo glass, transmitting no hght-rays lower in the speetrmn than 

 blue. The third nest was roofed with double panes of blue and piuple 

 glass, transmitting no light-ra3"s lower than blue, and showing under 

 the spectroscope a very broad band of violet. As the ants in the second 

 and third nests behaved nearly ahke, I shall refer to these two nests as 

 the \'iolet nests. The fourth nest was roofed with double panes of 

 orange glass, transmitting only red and green rays, and this nest is 

 referred to as the orange nest. The fifth, the dark nest, had an opaque 

 roofing. All the nests were kept on a table in the diffused dayhght that 

 entered a large window, underneath a gas-jet that burned several hours 

 at night. The temperature and the humidity were nearly alike for 

 all the nests, and the same food was supphed to all on the same days. 

 There was never any communication between the nests. 



From the beginning, the ants in the white nest and in the \-iolet nests 

 behaved ahke in their efforts to seek shelter from the hght-rays enter- 

 ing their respective abodes. At first they packed themselves into the 

 hallways, coming out only at night or in veiy cloudj' days for food. 

 The ultra violet rays entering the white and the \'iolet nests, were those 

 that drove the ants to shelter. These rays are invisible to the human 

 eye, and are not shown by the spectroscope; but Forel's ants,* Formica 

 sanguinea and Formica suhsericea, withdrew from the isolated ultra- 

 \dolet rays as from full daylight. For the logic of my experiments the 

 isolation of the ultra-\'iolet rays was not required. There is no doubt 

 that the ants instinctively withdrew from the ultra-^^olet rays, and 

 that they are indifferent to all the other hght-rays. My experiments 

 show that they become fearless of, but not insensible to, these tiltra" 

 ■v-iolet rays, the time reciuired therefor being in direct ratio to the 

 intensity of the illumination from the ultra-violet rays. 



It was not until December, 1902, that my ants gave sign of having 

 ceased to fear these rays when in charge of the young. In the night 

 and in cloudy days they brought the inert young out to occupy the 

 sponges in the center of the compartments. Toward the end of Janu- 

 ary'', 1903, the ants in the ^dolet nests occupied the middle areas of their 



glass, so tinted as to exclude light-rays above blue in the spectrum, would con- 

 duce to the serenity of the ants and facilitate the study of their waj'^s. Cleanli- 

 ness, the right degree of humidity, pure air and a varied diet presented in minute 

 quantities, enables the ants to live long and prosper in these nests. 



* "Ueber die Empfindlichkeit der Ameisen fiir Ultra- violett und Rontgen'sche 

 Stralen," Prof. A. Forel und Prof. H. Dufour, Zoologischen Jahrbiichern, 1902. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



rooms as serenely as did the ants in the dark nests, with whom they 

 were frequently compared. In the white nest the ants did not bring 

 their young out upon the sponges, in bright dayhght, until the end of 

 February. 



In the orange nest, on the contrary, the ants behaved from the be- 

 ginning as did those in the dark nest, never huddhng in the hallways 

 nor seeking the shade of the walls. They often clustered in the most 

 highly illuminated portions of the area. All the actions of the ants 

 indicated that they were insensible to the red and green rays.^ 



As the nests were new and nearly alike in structure, temperature and 

 humidity, there seems to have been no reason other than that which 

 lay in the difference in light-rays, for the difference in the behavior of 

 the ants in the different nests, those in the white and the violet nests 

 behaving nearly alike, and those in the orange and the dark nests be- 

 having wholly alike. The point to be here noted is that the ants in the 

 white and the "vdolet nests learned to be unafraid of the rays that at 

 first drove them into corners. After ten months' exposure to these 

 rays they were still sensitive to them, preferred shelter from them, and 

 would soon move to a room of which I changed the roofing to such as 

 covered either the orange or the dark nest ; but they appeared to have 

 learned that those light-rays were innocuous. Not only, then, can 

 these ants become acquainted with human beings, lose fear of 

 them and cease to sting them; not only can they become acquainted 

 with ants of alien famihes and thereupon cease to quarrel with them, 

 but they can become unafraid of certain light-rays and adjust their 

 behavior to conditions to which they were instinctively averse. They 

 are susceptible to education through the eye as well as through the 

 sense of smell.* 



^ Formica siibsericea, Cremastogaster lineolata. Lasius umbratus and Lasius 

 latipes behave in the same manner toward these rays. 



^ Something that appears purposeful in the behavior of my ants is tlieir carry- 

 ing of morsels of hickory-nut or other dry substance and dotting with it the sur- 

 face of a lump of Turkish paste or other viscid sweet that they like to eat. They 

 then stand with clean feet on the stepping stones that they have laid and lap the 

 sticky food. Oftentimes the sticky sweet is the only one among several kinds 

 of food in their food-room that is flecked by these bits of nut. It may be that 

 ants enaged in carrjnng morsels of food come upon something more luscious, and 

 drop the former in order to enjoy the latter. They are apt to give special atten- 

 tion to any new dainty. 



Dr. Wheeler, on p. 18 of the paper referred to in note 3, says of his Leptothorax 

 that "isolation brought out an instinct which is common to all ants known to 

 me except Polygerus, .... the instinct that impels them to collect dead sister 

 ants, little particles of earth, etc., and to deposit them on liquid food in the man- 

 ger." When cleaning up their dwellings, as my ants do, carrying particles to 

 the rubbish-pile, as is their wont, diversion of their attention will often 

 cause them, as it will cause monkeys, to drop the thing they carry. The same or 

 another ant maj' pick up the dropped particle, if it be not beyond recovery. 

 They hold more tenaciously to the young that they have in charge. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jime, 



In all five of the nests I watched the rearing of progeny from the 

 deposit of the eggs through the larval and pupal stages to callows. 

 In the A^iolet nests the young were as numerous and as advanced in 

 development at any one period of time as were the young in the orange 

 or the dark nest. It is certain that eggs, larvae and pupae may pass 

 their whole career normally and may develop into healthy callows, 

 spending all the dayhght hours under rays from which the ant-nurses 

 instinctively "withdraw them. The base of the instinct must there- 

 fore lie in something other than injury done to the young by these 

 rays. 



In the latter part of June, 1903, the ants having been ten months 

 in these nests, I introduced into each of the five nests one cjueen and 

 five adult workers, all marked, from each of the other four nests. 

 The ants were introduced one by one, and were watched for some min- 

 utes thereafter until the manner of the reception of each was ascer- 

 tained. In no case was there sign of animosity toward an ant that 

 had lived ten months in daylight, in light-rays of another color, or in 

 the dark. After twenty-four hours spent with their ancient comrades, 

 all the marked ants were alive and were taking part in the care of the 

 young. Later, I distributed all the ants in the five nests ecjually in 

 two other nests and they continued in peaceful association together. 

 These ants had not lost their aversion to aliens, for, when I introduced 

 such, they w^ere soon torn in pieces. Ten months^ residence in the light 

 of day, or under light-rays of different wave-length, does not cause a differ- 

 ence of contact-odors in the adult ants? 



Twenty callows reared in the \aolet nests from the deposit of the egg 

 upward,^ were segregated under \-iolet rays in a Petri cell, for two weeks, 

 that they might separately establish their nest-odor, and become en- 

 grossed in the care of young. Tw^enty caUows reared in the orange nest 

 from the deposit of the egg upw^ard were likewise segregated under 

 orange glass for two weeks. On the 12th of June I transferred, one by 

 one, about half the ants in each cell to the other cell. All were received 

 amicably and were permitted to share in the care of the young. The 



' The color of the ants was not noticably altered by exposure to any of these 

 rays. -Ill the callows acquired color like those in the dark nest. 



" Although the fact has no bearing upon the present series of experiments, 

 as all the callows in these nests were presumably the issue of queens, I here note 

 one of the records of the last few months. Four workers, of whom one was 

 major, two minor, one minim, were hatched from pupse segregated in one of 

 my Petri cells, in August, 1902. They lived always in segregation, never saw 

 a king, and on March 8, 1903, had laid nineteen eggs. Nine days later several of 

 the eggs had hatched and two of the larvae were weU grown. There was no room 

 for doubt that these eggs were parthogenetic, or that they were laid by a worker 

 about six months old. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



young ants, like the adidts, failed to discern any difference in contact-odor 

 due to dii'ersity in the light rays encountered.'^ 



In order to ascertain whether exposure of the inert young to different 

 light-rays would result in different contact-odors at a later time, I 

 took amber pupse, between April 12 and May 12, from the violet nests, 

 and segregated them in a dark Petri cell, and I hkewise segregated in 

 another dark cell as many pupae from the orange nest. From the 

 violet nests I thus secured about twenty callows, all hatched between 

 April 23 and May 14, that had passed the egg, the larval, and most of 

 of the pupal stage exposed during all daylight hours to the rays at the 

 upper end of the spectrum and Tvdthout exposure to the red or green 

 rays. From the orange nest I likewise secured about twenty callows, 

 all hatched between April 17 and May 14, that had been exposed dur- 

 ing the same period to the rays at the lower end of the spectrum, 

 wdthout exposure to blue, violet or ultra-violet rays. No callow had 

 met an ant of other group than the one in which it w^as hatched. When 

 the youngest callow was one month old, on June 13, 1903, I intro- 

 duced several callows, one by one, from each cell into the other cell. 

 All were amicably received and were straightway permitted to share 

 in the care of the inert young; and when I united all the occupants of 

 the two cells they hved together harmoniously. The exposure of the 

 eggs, the larvce, or the pupoB to. unlike light-rays does not produce unlike 

 contact-odors in the ants developing from the exposed eggs, larvce or pupcB. 



The results of these experiments shows that the contact-odor of these 

 ants is not affected by the light-rays from which the ant-nurses instinctively 

 withdraw the young; nor is exposure to light a cause of such change in 

 the contact-odor as is coincident with age. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEArY OF [June, 



A NEW JAPANESE PLETTROTOMARIA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The Academy has received from Mr. Y. Hirase a specimen of Plem-o- 

 tomaria from Kashiwajima, pro\-ince of Tosa, Japan. The shell repre- 

 sents a new species, which may be thus defined: 



Pleurotomaria hirasei n. sp. PL XXII. figs. 1. 2. 



Shell resembling P. beyricJii in shape and general characters. The 

 upper surface is copiously streaked mth crimson on a white ground, 

 orange-tinted in places; the base being wliite with a few faint wide, 

 flexuous reddish streaks. Sculpture above of spiral, regularly beaded 

 cords; 7 above, 5 below the slit fascicle on the whorls of the spire, the 

 beads closely placed, corresponding to close and rather strong plicae, 

 or ripples, which are obUque above, vertical below the sht fasciole; the 

 latter being sculptured with the usual arcuate striae, and traversed by 

 a wide median cord, with a thread below it. On the last whorl the 

 beaded cords become more numerous, about 10 above the fasciole. 

 The base is nearly flat, and has many spiral cords and threads, made 

 crenulate by fine radial, flexuous folds. The sht is about one-fifth of a 

 whorl long. The columella is twisted in a strong, convex lobe. The 

 apical whorls are wanting in the type, and the lip is somewhat broken. 



Alt. 72, diam. 81 mm. 



The height would be 4 or 5 mm. greater in a perfect shell, the apical 

 w^horls of this one being broken off. 



P. beyrichi as figured by von Martens, Dautzenberg, Schmalz and 

 others, has much more widely spaced spiral cords, which are weakly 

 beaded, in place of the closely beaded and more crowded cords of this 

 species. 




1903. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



ON A COLLECTION OF FISHES FROM PARAGUAY. WITH A SYNOPSIS OF THE 

 AMERICAN GENERA OF CICHLIDS.' 



BY CARL H. EIGEXMAXX AND CLARENCE HAMILTON KENNEDY. 



The Indiana Universit}' has received from Prof. J. Daniel Anisits, 

 of the National University of Paraguay, a large and well-preserved 

 collection of fishes made during 1900 and 1901. The collection con- 

 sists of about 750 specimens and was made in the following localities : 



1. Rio Paraguay and Laguna Pasito; and Rio Paraz at Asuncion. 



2. Estancia La Armonia, Department Caapucu near the Laguna 

 Ipoa. the largest lake in Paraguay, and into which all the streams of 

 the neighborhood empty. Collections were here made in the Arroyo 

 Carumbe}'. 



3. Laguna Ipacaray and its tributary Arcgua, twenty-four kilo- 

 meters east of Asuncion. The laguna is about on a level with the 

 Rio Paraguay and connected with it by the Arroyo Yuc|ueri. 



4. Rio Paraguay at Fuerte Olympo. 



5. Laguna at Pirayu Paraguay. 



6. Campo Grande Lagunitas. five kilometers from Asuncion. 



7. Rio Apa, forming the northern boundary" of Paragua}', and its 

 tributaries Arroyo Pypucu. about one hundred and twenty kilometers 

 from the Rio Paraguay. 



8. Arroyo Trementina, a tributary of the Rio Acjuido Canigi and 

 Aquadas and Lagunitas along the Arroyo. 



9. Arroyo Chagalalina, also a tributary of the Rio Aquido Canigi. 



10. Toldocuc Estero, near Arroyo Chagalalina. 



1 1 . Salamanca, a landlocked laguna on a mountain near the Arroyo 

 Pypucu, and between Rio Apa and Rio Aquidaban. 



12. Fazenda das Conchas, in a partiall}^ dried small laguna near 

 Rio Branco. Matto Grosso, Brazil. 



The collection contains also a series collected by Dr. Carl Ternetz 

 in the Paraguay at Asuncion and at Descalvados, Matto Grosso, Brazil. 



In the present paper we give a list of all the specimens received, 

 with descriptions of new species. We have also prepared a synopsis 

 of the genera of Cichlids. 



Contribution from the Zoological Department of Indiana University, No. 56 . 

 32 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Notes ox the Species Received.*^ 



1. Potamotrygon hystrix Muller and Henle. Kaya, Yabeliri. 



Eight specimens (Xo. 43). Laguna and Rio Paragua}^, at Asuncion. 



2. Bunocephalus rugosus sp. nov. 



TjT^De, Xo. 9,819- one specimen (X'o. 221). 40 mm. Laguna near 

 Arroj'o Chagalalina. 



D. 5; A. 7; V. 6. 



Bod}' slender, greatest -u-idth in front of pectoral 2J in length. Head 

 and body moderately deep; the greatest depth 7h in the length. The 

 depth at the base of the dorsal spine 1^ in the distance from the tip 

 of the snout to the base of the pectoral spine. 



The ridges and knobs of the head well developed. The skin over the 

 snout and sides of the head verj- warty; the nuchal crest long and 

 thin, extending f the distance to the base of the dorsal. Just beyond 

 its distal end is a small laiob. On each side of the anterior end of the 

 nuchal crest is a lateral crest. These lateral crests run f the length 

 of the nuchal crest, converging slightly. Further, on each side there 

 are two prominent crests which pass obliquely downward and forward 

 to the short, high, humeral crest. 



The interorbital space very concave. The crests bounding it are 

 the most prominent of any on the head. They arise just back of the 

 anterior nares, and after enclosing an elliptical space end at the base 

 of the nuchal crest. On each of these there are four prominent 

 knobs, two just back of the eye, and two just in front of the nuchal 

 crest. The eyes are placed laterally in these ridges. 



The interorbital width equals the snout plus the eye. 



The maxillary barbels reach to the middle of the pectorals. ^lental 

 barbels short, reaching ^ the distance to the post mentals. Post 

 mentals reaching to the anterior end of the gill cleft. 



Coracoid processes parallel behind, their length If in the distance 

 between them, the processes extending half-way to a perpendicular 

 dropped from the base of the dorsal spine. The coracoid processes 

 and ridges very similar to those of B. bicolor. 



Himieral process extending about ^ the length of the pectoral spine. 



Pectoral pore small, round. 



Skin ever^-^-here covered with ver}' conspicuous warts; those on 

 the sides of the body and tail arranged in about 7 rows on each side. 



* The numbers in parentheses are the ones used by Prof. Anisits to indicate 

 the various lots he collected. The numbers of the types are those they bea r 

 in the register of the Indiana University. The common names are those col- 

 lected bv Prof. Anisits, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



Distance of the dorsal from the tip of the snout 2f in the length. 

 Pectoral spines twice as long as the coracoicl processes, armed on both 

 edges with long hooks, those on the posterior edge and on the proximal 

 half of the anterior edge pointing inward, those on the distal half of 

 the anterior edge pointing outward. 



Color dark brown; the numerous warts white, giving a speckled 

 appearance. The fins light brown, irregularly speckled and mottled 

 with darker. 



This species is most closely related to B. gronovii and B. bicolor. It 

 agrees with gronovii in the distance of the dorsal spine from the tip of 

 the snout and in having the keels and knobs of the head well developed. 

 It differs from gronovii in having the coracoid processes only half as 

 long. 



It agrees with bicolor in having 7 anal rays, and in the general shape 

 of the coracoid ridges and processes. It differs from bicolor in having 

 the knobs and keels of the head better developed. 



3. Bhamdia quelen (i^uoy and Gaimard). Bagreor Mandii, Mandiiguani. 



Four specimens (Xos. 25, 133, 148, 269). Estancia La Armonia; 

 Asuncion and Campo Grande. 



4. Pimelodus ornata Kner. Mandii guarii. 



One specimen (Xo. 167). Laguna at Asuncion. Very rare. Prof. 

 Anisits records taking another specimen in the Arroyo Trementina. 



5. Pimelodus albicans (C'uv. and Val ). Mandiiguani. 



Two specimens (Nos. 54 and 56). Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. 



6. Pimelodus clarias (Bloch). Bagre amarilbo, Mandii saiyu. 



Three specimens (Nos. 197 and 263) of type 6, as defined by Eigen- 

 mann. Arroyo Trementina and Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. 



Seven specimens (X^os. 149, 166, 551). Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. 

 The most abundant of the fishes. 



7. Pimelodus valenciennis (Kriiyer). Bagre and Mandii. 



One specimen (Xo. 259). 20 cm. Laguna Ypacarai (Arcgua). 

 Anal rays 15. 



8. Iherinichtliys labrosus (Kroyer). 



Nine specimens (X'^os. 55, 150, 162, 163, 165). 10-19 cm. Asuncion, 

 Rio Paraguay. 



9. Hemisorubim platyrhynchos (Cuv. and Val.). 



One specimen (X'^o. 53). 42 cm. Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. 



10. Pseudoplatystoma coruscans (Agassiz). Suruby. 



Two specimens (Xo. 47). 40 and 48 cm. Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. 

 This is a common market fish. It reaches a length of a meter. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [Julv 



11. Sorubim lima (Bloeh and Schneider). Tico de pato = duck-bill. 



One specimen (No. 48). 35 cm. Asmicion, Rio Paraguay. Rare 



12. Doras costatus Linnaeus. 



One specimen (No. 130). 20 cm. 



13. Doras maculatus ^'al. Armado and Ytagua. 



One specimen (No. 51). 36 cm. Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. ]\Iarch; 

 1900. 

 A common market fish; meat of good flavor. 



14. Doras nebulosus sp. nov. 



Type, No. 9,837, one specimen (No. 129). 16 cm. Collected by 

 Dr. Carl Ternetz, either in ]\Iatto Grosso or Asuncion. 



Form elongate ; depth below dorsal equals width. Caudal peduncle 

 narrow, compressed, width 1^ in height. Humeral i^rocesses with a 

 narrowed base, point acute. Dorsal plate roof-shaped, prolonged 

 back of the first dorsal ray in a narrow process. Fontanel elongate, 

 ending in front in a groove extending to between the posterior nares. 

 Humeral processes and bones of the top of the head finely granular. 

 Opercles, suborbitals and prenasals entirely covered with skin. 



Eye small, 7h in head, 3^ in snout, 2 in interorbital. Center of eye 

 as far from posterior nostril as this is from anterior nostril, and as far 

 as the anterior nostril is from tip of snout. 



Maxillary barbel scarcely reaching the gill opening. ^Mental Ijarbels 

 twice as long as e5"e ; post mental barbels slightly longer. 



Snout narrow, Avidth just back of maxillary barbels 4 in head. 

 Mouth inferior, width 1^ in snout. A small loand of intermaxillary 

 teeth ^ as long as mouth is wide, the width of the band ^ in its length. 

 ]Maxillary teeth in a triangular patch, slightlj" wider than the inter- 

 maxillary band and half as deep as wide. 



Gill membranes separate to below the bases of the pectoral spines. 

 Breast entirely covered with skin. 



Lateral plates narrow, the first 5-6 without dorso-ventral Avings. 

 The lateral plates widest beneath the adipose, Avhere their width is 

 contained in depth of body 3^ times. The median hooks the same 

 height for the whole length. 



A median series of 10-12 plates between the adipose and the caudal 

 and a similar series of 10-12 between the anal and caudal. 



Distance of the dorsal spine from tip of snout 2^-2f in length of 

 body. Dorsal spine about as long as the head, very strongly serrated 

 on both edges ; the spines on the posterior edge twice as long as those 

 on the anterior edge. Distance of adipose from dorsal 4^ in the length. 

 Adipose low, its base f longer than base of dorsal. 



Anal fin rounded, its height If in head. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Pectoral spine similar to dorsal, reaching the 5th or 6th scute. 

 Light brown, shading into lighter below, everywhere mottled and 

 marbled with darker shades. The fins similarly colored. 



Lat. plates 29-30; head 3f ; depth 4|; D. I, 6; A. 13; Y. 7; P. I, 8. 



15. Oxydoras knerii (Bleeker). Armado, Ytagua-poschu.3 



Two specimens (No. 52), 35 and 36 cm. Asuncion, Rio Paraguay 

 (laguna). March, 1900. Very abundant; the commonest market fish. 

 One specimen (No. 131). Matto Grosso or Asuncion. 



16. Auchenipterus nigripinnis Boulenger. Bagre. 



One specimen (No. 71). 17 cm. Asuncion, Rio Paraguay (Pasito). 

 Very rare, 



17. Trachycorystes striatulus Steind. 



One specimen (No. 61). 13 cm. Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. Taken 

 alive from the stomach of a large Sorubim. It is not known to the 

 fishermen. 



18. Loricaria rostrata Spix. 



Two specimens (Nos. ISO and 125), a male and a female. 300 and 

 220 mm. From the Arroyo Trementina and from a laguna near 

 Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. 



19. Loricaria labialis Boulenger. Maimingue.* 



Eight specimens (Nos. 62, 151, 175, and 178). 130-240 mm. Asun- 

 cion, Rio Paraguay. Common, caught with seine. One specimen (No. 

 214), 130 mm., from Arroyo Trementina. Our specimens agree in 

 nearly all respects wdth those described by Boulenger. The snout is 

 slightly thicker and more acute. The labial fold is slightly fringed. 



20. Loricaria stlibelli Steindachner. Maimingu6. 



Thirteen specimens (Nos. 64, 177 and 179). From Asuncion, Rio 

 Paraguay. Two specimens (Nos. 207 and 212), from the Arroyo 

 Trementina. Nos 177 and 207 are males with broad under lip. 



These specimens differ from >Steindachner's figure of stuheUi in the 

 greater width of the interorbital, 3| in length of head. 



21. Loriacaria lata E. and E. MaimingiU'. 



Nine specimens (Nos. 60, 163, 142, 175, and 210). 70-280 mm. 

 Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. One specimen (No. 210) from Arroyo Tre- 

 mentina. 



22. Loricaria lamina Giinther. 



One specimen (No. 124). 200 mm. Matto Grosso. Collected by 

 Dr. Carl Ternetz. 



^ Yta = stone, gua = place, poschu = bad. 

 * Maimi = old woman, gue = it was. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^Jy, 



23. Hypoptopomus thoracatum Giinther. 



One specimen (Xo. 126). SO mm. Matto Grosso. Collected by 

 Dr. Carl Ternetz. 



24. Plecostomus commersoni (Val.). 



Two specimens (Xo. 113). 170 and 220 mm. Matto Grosso. Col- 

 lected by Dr. Carl Ternetz. 



25. Plecostomus vermicularis Eigenm. and Eigenm. 



One specimen (Xo. 213). 70 mm. Arro^'o Trementina. Caught 

 in a fish trap. 



26- Plecostomus boulengeri sp. nov. 



Type Xo. 9,868, one specimen (X'o. 112). 10 cm. Co-type Xo. 

 9.S69, one specimen (Xo. 112). 6 cm. Both specimens from Matto 

 Grosso or Asuncion. Collected by Dr. Carl Ternetz. 



Head pointed; a low ridge from between the nares to the snout; 

 three distinct ridges on the back part of the head. C)ccipital process 

 short, triangular, bordered by a single nuchal plate. The nuchal 

 plates bicarinate. Only the upper lateral plates on the anterior part 

 of the bod}^ keeled. The humeral ridges moderate, extending over 

 the first 4-5 plates. Tip of the snout naked. Belh' covered with 

 small granular plates, except for a small area in front of each ventral. 

 In the younger specimen the belly is entireh' naked. 



Eye 2-2^ in interorbital, 2^-3 in snout, 4-4^ in head. Eye larger 

 in the younger specimen, 2^ in snout, 4^4f in the head, 2 in the inter- 

 orbital. 



Base of dorsal fin ec^uals distance from dorsal to posterior end of 

 adipose dorsal. First dorsal ray 1^ in the distance from dorsal to tip 

 of snout, slightly longer than head. Last dorsal ray l^lf in first 

 dorsal ray. 



Caudal obliquely truncate; outer rays not produced. 



Head and body covered with small round spots; those on the head 

 minute; those on the belly large, leaving a mere reticulation of the 

 lighter ground color. The fins reddish, the dorsal with four rows of 

 large round spots ; in each row a single spot on each interradial mem- 

 brane. In the larger specimen the two upper rows are indistinct ; in 

 the younger specimen all the dorsal spots are indistinct. Caudal with 

 four oblique bands. The pectorals and ventrals each with four dark 

 bands. Anal dusky ^-ith a single band. 



Lat. plates 26; head 4^; depth 5; D. I. 7; V. 5; A. 5; P. I. 6. 



This species is evident!}' related to commersoni. scahriceps and ple- 

 costomus. It agrees with the latter in the number of lateral scutes. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 508 



It is distinguished by the obhque dark bar on the caudal, less distinct 

 than the rows of spots on the dorsal which toward the tip of the fin 

 are also partially resolved into bars. 



27. CocMiodon cochliodon (Kner). 



Two specimens (No. 211). 230 and 300 mm. Arroyo Trementina. 

 Caught in a fish trap. One specimen (Xo. 111). Matto Grosso? 



28. Pterygophlichtliys anisitsi sp. nov. Maimingue. 



Type No. 9,873. 42 cm. (-46.) Co-types 9.874 and 9,875. Two 

 specimens (No. 46). 40-42 cm. Called La Meja in Spanish and 

 Maimingue by the natives. Laguna of the Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. 

 Caught with seine; very abundant. 



Form slender; depth under dorsal 1^ in the width. Caudal peduncle 

 shghtly compressed. Head depressed, length 1^ in width, depth 1^ 

 in length. An occipital ridge. Occipital process narrow, the sides al- 

 most parallel, bordered by three nuchal plates. All dorsal and lateral 

 scutes carinate, each carina wdth short spines. Tip of snout granular. 

 Thorax and abdomen entirely granulose. 



Eye 4|-5 in snout, ^4^ in interorbital, 6-7 in head. Preopercle 

 erectile. 



Base of dorsal longer than distance from dorsal to base of caudal. 

 Distance from the dorsal to the adipose contained in the length of the 

 dorsal l|-2^ times. Distance of dorsal spines from snout 2h times in 

 length, the spine once in the head. The tips of the last dorsal rays 

 reach slightly more than ^ distance to adipose spine. 



Adipose spine hooked, compressed, covered with short spines, espe- 

 cially the curved end. 



Caudal oblique, not emarginate; outer rays heavy, the dorsal one 

 somewhat compressed, not produced beyond the other caudal rays. 

 Height of anal 1^ in head. Ventrals equal length of head. Pectoral 

 spine reaching half the length of the ventrals. 



Body dark, almost black, covered on the sides and belly with lighter 

 vermiculations. Passing caudad the vermiculations of the sides are 

 gradually replaced by spots. Back of the dorsal one spot on each 

 plate, so that the caudal peduncle has several longitudinal rows of 

 moderately large spots. The head with the same dark ground color 

 both above and below, uniform^}' covered with small light-colored 

 spots, those on the posterior part of the head larger and gradually 

 passing into the vermiculations of the sides. 



The interradial membrane of the dorsal, caudal, ventrals and pec- 

 torals dark, obscurely spotted, but in the darker individuals entirely 

 black. Anal membrane dusky with obscure spots. The rays of all 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jl^llj; 



the fins light with dark spots. Head 4-4^; D. 1. 11; A. 5; Lat. 1., 

 29-30. 



29. PterygopMichtliys juvens sp. nov. Maimingue. 



Type No. 9,876, one specimen (Xo. 92). 4 cm. Caught with seine 

 at Asimcion, Rio Paraguay. April, 1900. 



Form slender, depth under dorsal 1^ in width. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed. 



Head moderately elevated, its length slightly greater than its width. 

 Two occipital ridges. Xuchal plates rudimentaiy. Occipital pro- 

 cess broad and triangular. Preopercle erectile ; 8-12 teeth on each side 

 in each jaw. 



Eye 2^ in snout, 2 in interorbital. 4 in head. 



Snout and suborbital regions naked. Under side of head, breast 

 and belly naked. Dorsal and lateral scutes carinate. 



Base of dorsal equals distance from dorsal to base of caudal. Dis- 

 tance of dorsal spine from tip of snout contained in the length 2^ 

 times. No adipose. Caudal oblicjue. not emarginate. ^ of total length. 

 Height of anal IMn head. Yentrals ecjual in length to head, reaching 

 base of anal. Pectoral spine reaching base of ventrals. 



Color uniform black, except breast and belly which are silvery. 

 All the fins with alternating light and dark crossbars. Dorsal with 

 6 horizontal bands alternately transparent and black, the base trans- 

 parent, the top black. Anal wdth four similar bars similarly arranged. 

 Caudal with 7-9 alternating bars, the light ones less distinct. 



Lateral plates 27; head 3f ; D. I, 12. 



This species may be the yomig form of the three adult specimens 

 (Pterygophlichthys anisitsi) caught at Asuncion; but no trace of 

 adipose dorsal could be detected. 



30. Ancistrus cirrhosus dubius Eigenm. and Eigenm. 



One specimen. 55 mm. The specimen is so badly mutilated that 

 the identification is doubtful. 



31. Callichthys callichthys liaemapliractus (Hensel). 



One specimen (No. 265), yomig. 5 cm. Campo Grande. 



32. Haplosternum pectoralis (Boulenger). 



Four specimens (No. 101). 7-9 cm. Rio Branco, Matto Grosso. 



33. Haplosternum littorale (Hancock). 



Two specimens (Nos. 23 and 24). 18 and 19 cm. Arroyo Carumbey 

 and Yajamar, Estancia La Armonia. 



These specimens fit the description of littorale in the " Nematognathi 

 of South America" by E. and E. Two other specimens (No. 155) 




1903.] XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



from a small lagoon in Campo Grande, 5 kilos from Asuncion and 

 the Rio Paraguay, differ from the first two in having the posterior mar- 

 gins of the anterior pair of nuchal plates very much rounded. In fact, 

 the posterior border on either side lies for f its length at right angles 

 to the axis of the body. They differ also in being of a vmiform dull 

 lead color and in the size of the eye — 6^ in the interorbital. The two 

 specimens differ as follows : 



Specimen a, 21 cm. (6" ?). Pectoral spines as long as head. In this 

 specimen, which is probably a male, the skin along the under side of 

 the pectoral rays is greatly thickened, forming along each ray for f its 

 length a heavy ridge. 



Specimen b, 18 cm. (9 ?). Pectoral spines If in head. 



Key to the Species of Corydoras. 



a. Coracoid processes meeting on median line of anterior portion of 



belly at least. 

 h. A dark brown lateral band extending from the occiput backward 

 on the upper half of the body ; ventral surface and a broad ver- 

 tical band behind the eye light ; caudal without bars, . eques. 

 bh. Greenish, fins and top of head brown ; a dark brown band oncaudal. 



D. 1,9; Lat. pi. fl, splendens. 



aa. Coracoid processes nowhere meeting; breast and belly with a 

 median naked area. 



c. Caudal plain. 



d. Body with one or more dusky longitudinal bands ; dorsal fin usually 



spotted. 



e. Coracoid processes moderately expanded, leaving only a narrow 



naked area between them ; occipital process triangular, pointed 

 at the tip; a dark band extending from the upper caudal lobe 

 forward, one or more longitudinal series of dark spots along the 

 sides . . elegans. 



ee. Coracoid process scacely encroaching on breast or belly. A black- 

 ish lateral band extending from the middle caudal rays for- 

 ward. 

 /. Ej-e 2-2 J in snout, 4-5 in head, 2-24^ in interorbital. First 4-5 



dorsal rays as long as the dorsal spine, 7nicrops. 



ff. Eye H in snout, 4 in head, 2 in the interorbital. First 2 dorsal 

 rays as long as the dorsal spine, nattereri. 



dd. Body without longitudinal bands; dorsal plain. D. I, 7; A. I, 6; 

 P. 1,7-8 ;V. 6. 

 g. Head and dorsal plates deep bronze; ventral plates yellowish; 

 all the fins immaculate; opercle, humeral and nnchal plates 

 iridescent blue ; base of the dorsal fin shorter than the distance 

 between the dorsal and adipose; depth less than i of total 

 length; eye 4^ in head, more than 2 in the interorbital 

 (Gill), / aneus. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



gg.J^live, the 9 or 10 anterior scutes with vertical series™of blackish 

 spots; base of the dorsal fin eciual to the space between the 

 dorsal and adipose fins; depth 3^ in the total length; eye about 

 3 in the head; spines of the fins very strong and long, dorsal 

 spine as high as the boch', pectoral spine shorter; 4-5 azygos 



shields (Giinther), armatus. 



cc. Caudal fin with 4-5 dark vertical bars ; dorsal with dark markings, 



h. Dorsal fin with 2 irregular crossbars; sides of body with series of 



dark blotches ; middle of the lower fins blackish; . . paleatus. 



hh. A dark vertical bar on the first dorsal rays, sometimes extending 



on to the body below ; anal fin barred or spotted ; ventrals and 



pectorals plain, punctatus. 



hhh. Dorsal fin with 5 longitudinal rows of dark spots ; 6 narrow bars 

 on caudal. Top of head tinged with brown; a yellowish band 

 across snout, otherwise the fish without color, . aiirofrenatus. 

 hhhh. Dorsal with black spot on ends of rays. 



i. Anal spotted; dark brown above, 3 series of dark spots along 



middle of side, trilineatus. 



a. Anal plain. 



j. Lat. plates ff ; azygos plates none; a pale band on side; clavicle 

 and opercle with blue reflections (Cope), .... acutus. 

 fj. Lat. plates -f-^; azygos plates 4; numerous dark clots on the side 

 shields which are wanting on middle line of side; a black spot 

 at the base of the dorsal spine (Cope), .... amphibelus. 

 ccc. A hastate black spot at base of caudal fin, margined behind by 

 w^hite; a black lateral band, hastatus. 



34. Corydoras microps sp. nov. 



Type No. 9,892, one specimen (No. 100). From a small lagoon, half 

 dry, near the Rio Branco (Matto Grosso, Brazil), where there were 

 thousands of these fishes. Co-types No. 9,893, three specimens (260). 

 From Arcgua, in a brook which empties into the Laguna Ypacara. 

 Sides metallic green. June, 1901. Co-types No. 9,894, one specimen 

 (No. 236). Aguadas, near the Arroyo Trementina. December, 1900. 

 Co-types No. 9,895, two specimens (No. 215). H cm. From Arroyo 

 Pypucu. January, 1901. 



Short, deep, ventral outline almost straight to base of anal. Pro- 

 file steep to nostrils, less steep and evenly rounded from nares to 

 dorsal. 



Eye 2-2J in snout, 4^5 in head, 2^-2+ in interorbital. 



Mouth inferior, snout conical; maxillary barbels scarcely reaching 

 gill-openings, labial barbels slightly longer. Fontanel elongate, nar- 

 row, extending into the base of the occipital. 



Coracoid processes narrow. The distance between them equals ^ 

 distance between bases of pectoral spines. 



Three to four azygos plates before the adipose fin. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



Distance of dorsal spine from tip of snout 2 in length; the spine If 

 in head; roughened behind; first 4-5 rays higher than the spine. 



Pectoral spine l^-lf in head, outer side smooth, inner roughened. 



Caudal deeply forked, 2^-3 in length, its dorsal lobe slightly longer. 



Color yellowish-brown changing to white below; a light middorsal 

 band, extending from fontanel to base of caudal. At the base of 

 the dorsal this band widens into a dark spot. A lateral band starts at 

 the base of the caudal and widens as it passes forward, to end in a more 

 or less distinct lateral spot. All the fins are plain. 



Three of the specimens (260) are darker. The lateral band is not 

 distinct from the middorsal. The top and sides of the head, the dorsal 

 and caudal fins are tinged with dark. 



Lat. plates --^-^'- ) D. I, 7-8; A. 7-8; V. 6; P. I, 8-9. 



These specimens, measuring l^etween 15-60 mm., differ from the 

 adult in having the eye 1^ in the snout, 3 in the head, and 1^ in the 

 interorbital. Depth 2^, head 2f, dorsal spine If in head, pectoral 

 spine li in head. 



This species stands nearest to nattereri. from which it differs in 

 having the eye smaller, snout more conical and in the shape of the 

 dorsal fin. 

 35. Corydoras aurofrenatus sp. nov. 



Type No. 9,891, one specimen (235). 55 mm. Aguada, near Arro3^o 

 Trementina. December, 1900. 



Body elongate, fins and head small. Profile obtusely angled between 

 the nares, steep from the nares to the snout. Fontanel very elongate, 

 extending to the base of the occipital process. Width of occipital 1-j 

 in its length. 



Eye 2 in snout, 1^ in interorbital, 3^ in head. 



Snout conical, somewhat compressed. Posterior margin of opercle 

 slanting downward and forward. Distance from upper end of gill- 

 opening to eye equal to diameter of eye. Labial barbel reaches gill- 

 opening; maxillary barbel slightly shorter. Mental barbels equidis- 

 tant from each other and the angles of the mouth. 



Coracoid process scarcely encroaching on the breast or l^elly. 



Three to four azygos plates before the adipose. 



Distance of dorsal spine 2^ in length; its height IJ in length of head. 

 First two dorsal rays exceed the spine. A band of spines, simiUir to 

 those on the plates, along the anterior edge of the spine. A similar 

 band but narrower on each lateral edge of the spine; the posterior 

 edge roughened. Caudal forked for half its length; about 2f in the 

 length. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Pectoral spine similar to dorsal in length, a similar spinous band 

 along its upper anterior edge, posterior edge serrated. 



No color on sides, belly or breast. Top of head slightly tinged with 

 brown. A broad yellow band across the snout. Dorsal colorless 

 except for dark spots on the rays, arranged in 5 longitudinal rows. A 

 vestige of a sixth roAv on the tips of the first and second rays. The 

 rays of the caudal similarly spotted, the spots arranged in about 6 

 vertical rows, giving the appearance of 6 narrow bars. The adipose, 

 anal, ventrals and pectorals plain. 



Head 4 in body; depth 3; D. 1,7; A. 7; V. 6; P. 1,9. Lateral 

 plates -j-g-. 



This species stands nearest to pundatus and truiricatus. From both 

 it differs mainly in coloration. 



36. Hoplias malabaricus (Bloch). Tarcui. 



Thirteen specimens (31, 58, 107, 154, 196, 231). Estancia La Ar- 

 monia; Arroyo Carmnbey; Asuncion; Rio Branco, Matto Grosso; 

 Arroyo Trementina; Arroyo Chagalalina. 



37. Hoplerythrinus unitaeniatus Spix. Tarcui. 



Four specimens (57, 98, 99, 239). Estancia La Armonia; Rio 

 Branco, ]\Iatto Grosso. 



38. Pyrrhulina australe sp. nov. 



Piirrhulina semijascia'a Boulenger. Trans. Zool. Soc. London, XIV, part 

 II, 1896 (not of Steindachner). 



Type No. 9,901 (254), 50 mm. Arroyo Trementina. 



Co-types No. 9,901, 21 specimens (254). 30-50 mm. Arroyo Tre- 

 mentina. 



Co-types No. 9,900, 13 specimens (227). 33-48 mm. Arroyo Chaga- 

 lalina, Laguna. 



This species is evidently closely related to P. semifasciatus . from 

 which it differs largely in coloration. A conspicuous jet-black band, 

 much narrower than the pupil, extends forward from the eye around 

 the tip of the lower jaw. In these specimens preserved in formalin it is 

 not possible to say wdiether the band extends through the eye. No 

 distinct streak behind the eye on upper part of opercle. No spots or 

 streaks on the body. 



Head 4; depth 4-4i; Lat. 1., 20-23; D. 8-10; A. 10 or 11. 



Teeth of the dentary slightly larger at their lateral ends. 



Four specimens from Estancia La Armonia, Arroyo Carumbey may 

 be referred to this species. They differ in coloration. The band 

 aromid the snout is continued back through the eye, where it is consid- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



erably wider than in front of the eye, and along the upper part of the 

 cheek and opercle, where it is still wider and much less intensely black, 

 merging into the color of the body and top of head. Body unspotted, 

 dark above, lighter below. 

 39. Psectrogaster curviventris sp. uov. Blauquillo. 



Type No. 9,919, 180 mm. (36). Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. 



Co-type No. 9,918; 195 mm. (36). Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. 



Co-type No. 9.920, 183 mm. (83). Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. 



Co-types No. 9,921, 3 specimens, 107-122 mm. (34). Asuncion, Rio 

 Paraguay. 



Co-types Nos. 9,936-9,937, 2 specimens, 145 and 160 mm. (145, 234). 

 Fuerte Olympo, Rio Paraguay. 



This species is closely related to Psectrogaster rhomhoides. from which 

 it differs in a num]:)er of characters, notably the ventral outline, the 

 number of fin rays and scales. 



Head 3^-3^ (3^ in smallest specimen) ; depth 2-2| (2i + 2f in rhom- 

 boicles); D. 10 or 11 (12 or 13 in rhomhoides); A. 9 or 10 (10 or 11 in 

 rhomhoides); Lat. 1., 48-52 (53-58). 



Compressed and deep, the depth usually 2 in the length, rarely less, 

 2| in No. 9,937. A'entral outline regularly arched, without an angle 

 at the origin of the ventral; dorsal outline less regularly arched, the 

 base of the dorsal oblique ; the region between dorsal and nape strongly 

 arched, top of head depressed. 



A narrow adipose lid in front and behind. Eye 3^-3^. equal to the 

 snout and anterior adipose lid, 2 in interorbital. 



Scales on back small, becoming larger on the sides and largest on 

 breast. Scales all ctenoid, becoming pectinate on breast. 



Air bladder extending little, if any, beyond origin of anal. 



Origin of dorsal as in rhomhoides, equidistant from tip of snout and 

 upper caudal fulcra or a little nearer caudal; the highest ray about 

 equal to the length of the head or shorter. Caudal broad and deeply 

 notched. The middle rays only ^ the length of the longest outer rays, 

 outer rays leathery. Anal short, emarginate, the tip of the longest 

 ray reaching tip of the last. Pectorals not reaching ventrals except 

 in 9,937 ; ventrals about g to vent. 



Plumbeous above, bright silvery below, indications of bright stripes 

 along the rows of scales above the lateral line and between the rows 

 below the lateral line. In 9.936 and 9,937 (preserved in formalin) 

 there is no metallic silvery and there is a dark band along the posterior 

 half of the lateral line, increasing in width and intensity toward the 

 tail. No. 9,937 evidently in shape and color approaches rhomhoides 

 most closelv. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^lv, 



40. Curimatella alburnus australe var. nov. Blanquillo. 



Type 9,929. one specimen (65). Asuncion. 



A single specimen differs from the tj'pical northern alburnus in hav- 

 ing the predorsal region trenchant w'ith a strong median and indistinct 

 lateral keels, and in havmg 33 scales in the lateral line instead of 

 36-38. It approaches var. lineatus in the number of scales, but has no 

 middorsal line. 



41. Curimatus gillii sp. nov. 



Type Xo. 9.939. 47 mm., AiToyo Trementina (242), 



Co-tj^e No. 9,938, 57 mm., Chagalalina (230). 



These two small specimens represent apparently a new species 

 related to C. spilurus. It certainly differs from C. nasiis and himacu- 

 latus the onlj^ other species of Curimatus that have been taken in the 

 Arroyo Trementina. 



Caudal lobes naked ; postventral region rounded ; sides in formalin 

 specimens with an obscure lateral band terminating in a large, well- 

 marked spot on the end of the caudal pedimcle.^ Dorsal plain. 



Head 3^; depth 2|; Lat. line 30 or 31; D. 10 or 11; A. 9. 



Long elliptical, dorsal and ventral profiles eciually arched. Pre- 

 ventral region flattened, with a median series of large scales; postven- 

 tral region rounded. Predorsal region narrow, rounded, a triangular 

 groove over the occipital process. 



Scales of the sides all crenulate. 



Profile gently arched; eye 3 in head, \\ in interorbital. Origin 

 of dorsal midway between tip of snout and base of caudal in the t3"pe 

 and between tip of snout and tip of adipose in the co-t}T)e. Origin of 

 ventrals nearer caudal than tip of snout. Pectorals not to ventrals; 

 ventrals to anus. 



For Dr. Theodore Gill, in recognition of his valuable contributions to 

 the knowledge of the Characinoids. 



42. Curimatus nasus Steindachner. 



Two specimens from Arroyo Trementina (186). preserved in formalin, 

 have a plumbeous lateral band about as wide as the eye. 



43. Curimatus elegans paraguayensis var. nov. Mojarra. 



Type Xo. 9,928, one specimen (18 in part), 135 mm. Estancia la 

 Armonia, Arroyo Carumbey. 



Co-type Xo. 9.954, one specimen (87), 100 mm. Asuncion, Rio 

 Paraguay. 



^ The pigment cells of the lateral band are deeper in position than those 

 forming the caudal spot and would probably not be apparent in specimens pre- 

 served in alcohol. Certainly other specimens preserved in alcohol show no 

 band, while specimens in formalin show a band. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



This variety differs from hahiensis in the number of its scales. Depth 

 in the type 2|, scales 38; in the co-type 24, scales 39. 



44. Curimatus bimaculatus Steindachner. Blanquillo. 



This species, heretofore known from the Amazonas, is represented 

 by typical specunens from Estancia La Armonia (IS in part); Arroyo 

 Trementina (189); Rio Paraguay at Asuncion (65, 140, 170). Speci- 

 mens preserved in formalin have a broad, dark lateral band and a con- 

 spicuous dark spot in front of the dorsal. 



45. Curimatus gilberti Quoy and Gaimard. 



Two specimens from Estancia la Armonia. 



46. Anodas latior (Spix). Blanquillo. 



Three specimens (35 and 97), from Rio Paraguay at Asuncion and 

 Fuerte Olympo. 



47. Prochilodus scrofa Steind. Zabalo; Carimbata. 



Six specimens, Asuncion, Rio Paraguay (Nos. 40, 81, 174); Estancia 

 La Armonia (19); Arroyo Trementina (205); one specimen received 

 from Dr. von Ihering from Piricicaba. 



48. Hemiodus orthonops sp nov. 



Type No. 9,955 (202), Arroyo Trementina, 150 mm. 



Co-types Nos. 9,956-9,960 (171, 50, 4, 77), five specimens, 170-225 

 mm. Laguna of Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. 



A slender, small-scaled species. Dorsal profile from tip of snout to 

 origin of dorsal slightly but evenly arched. Ventral profile from tip 

 of snout to insertion of ventrals of a like even curvature. Dorsal pro- 

 file from origin of dorsal to caudal peduncle nearly straight. Ventral 

 profile from insertion of ventral to origin of anal slightly convex, rising 

 abruptly from origin of anal to caudal peduncle. Depth of caudal 

 peclmicle 2f in head. 



Head subcorneal, flattened above and on the sides. The lower side 

 of the mandible flattened. Mouth in the ventral profile. The rami 

 of the mandible approaching each other posteriorly. jMaxillary short, 

 partly sheathed under the broad preorbital. Mandible toothless. 

 Premaxillary with a single series of about 24 movable, short, fiat, ser- 

 rated teeth. 



Eye large, 3^ in head, 1 in snout, covered, with the exception of a 

 short slit over the pupil, by broad adipose lids. 



Suborbitals covering cheek, with exception of a narrow space just 

 above the horizontal branch of the preopercle. Branchiostegal rays 4, 

 flat and overlapping each other. Opercle semicircular. Subopercle 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jl-ll}' 



of moderate depth. Gill membranes free from each other and from the 

 isthmus. 



Dorsal moderately' high, its base If in its height. Adipose long with 

 a small base. 



Caudal widely emarginate, its lobes leathery, generally worn off 

 round. Pectorals small, reaching f distance to insertion of ventrals. 

 Ventrals large, inserted under the latter half of the dorsal, reaching f 

 distance to the vent. Anal small, its posterior border emarginate. 

 When closed the tip of the third ray reaching tip of last ray. 



Scales above lateral line smaller than those IdcIow. 



Color bluish-gray f distance down to lateral line, below this silvery- 

 white. A conspicuous oval black spot just above lateral line back of 

 the dorsal. The tip of the caudal lobes dusky, each caudal lobe with 

 a dusky band running nearly parallel with its outer margin and about 

 three rays removed from the margin. The other fins immaculate. 



Scales 19 or 20-84 to 92-10 or 11 ; depth 3f ; head 4|; D. 11 ; A. 11 ; 

 P. IS; V. 11; eye Skinhead. 



This species stands nearest to H. microlcpis, from which it differs in 

 the larger scales. 



49. Paradon tortuosus Eigenmann and Xorris. 



One specimen (1S7), Arroyo Trementina. 



50. Paradon affinis Steindachner. Piki. 



Forty specimens of this species, from the Rio Paraguay at Asuncion 

 (90 and 5), agree with Steindachner's description in all l3Ut the dentition 

 of the lower jaw. There are no teeth on the sides. 



51. Anostomus fasciatus (Agassiz). Boga. 



Two specimens, Rio Paraguay at Asuncion (SO) and Estancia La 

 Armonia (2S). 



52. Leporinus hypselonotus Giinther. Per-do-folha. 



One specimen (110), Asuncion or Matto Grosso? 



53. Leporinus conirostris Steindachner. Boga. 

 One specimen (S2), Asuncion, Paraguay. 



54. Leporinus trifasciatus Steindachner. Boga. 



One specimen (39), Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. 



55. Odontostilbe paraguayensis sp- nov. 



Type Xo. 9.9SS, a single specimen, 40 mm. (05). Asuncion. 

 Co-types No. 10,111, three specimens, 40 mm. (251 in part). 

 Arroyo Trementina. 



Depth 2f; head 3f; D. 11; A. 21; scales G-32 or 33-4. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



Much compressed, back conspicuously elevated, the anterior profile 

 straight, the upper profile strongly arched, descending backward from 

 in front of dorsal. Eye greater than snout, about 3 in head, slightly 

 less than interorbital. Intermaxillary with six teeth in each side, each 

 with an inconspicuous median cusp and 3 to 4 graduated lateral cusps ; 

 the cusps of the teeth becoming more nearly of the same size and the 

 tooth rounded toward the side. Maxillary with 2 seven- to eight- 

 pointed broad-tipped teeth. Mandible with 4 broad, seven-pointed 

 teeth; the middle point is largest, the tip spatulate. A few small 

 teeth on the sides of the lower jaw. 



Origin of dorsal over origin of ventrals, slightly nearer tip of snout 

 than base of caudal, its highest ray about equal to the length of 

 the head. Caudal lobes longer than head. Pectorals reaching ven- 

 trals; ventrals not to'anal. 



In alcohol : Lower half of body metallic-silvery, a silvery lateral band. 

 A conspicuous caudal spot continued on the base of the middle caudal 

 rays; a dark band at base of caudal. A dusky band on middle of 

 back behind anal. Dorsal without dark spot, its first membrane dark; 

 other fins immaculate. In the co-types the anal reaches 22, the scales 

 34 or 35, head 3|-4i. Eye 2f. 

 66. Odontostilbe trementinae sp, nov. 

 Type No. 9,987a (251 in part), 47 mm. Arroyo Trementina. 

 Co-types No. 9,987, 9 specimens (251 in part). Arroyo Trementina. 

 One other specimen was taken at Asuncion, and two others from a 

 brook near the Arroyo Trementina. 



This species resembles H. peguira in the color of the dorsal, but 

 beyond this there is no similarity. 

 Depth 3; head 4; D. 11; A. 21; scales 6-34-4. 

 Two broad-tipped teeth on the maxillary, each with about 7 points. 

 Intermaxillary with 6 spear-tipped teeth on each side, each with a 

 large long median point and two or three short, graduated lateral 

 points. Lower jaw with about 9 three- to six-pointed teeth on the 

 sides, the first one large, the others small and decreasing in size back- 

 ward; about 6 broad teeth on the dentary, each with 3 lobes of equal 

 size, each lobe being indistinctly three-pointed. They appear as 3 

 distinct teeth. Maxillary reaching beyond anterior margin of eye. 



Dorsal equidistant from tip of snout and base of middle caudal 

 rays, behind the ventrals. Pectorals not to ventrals, ventrals not to 

 anal. 



In formalin : A conspicuous hastate caudal spot, extending forward 

 as a faint dark line to below the dorsal where it fades out. A dark 

 33 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF '' [July, 



area over the caudal spot. Anterior dorsal rays with a black spot 

 near their tip. A yellowish humeral spot. 



The anal in the co-types reaches 24 rays; Lat. 1.. 34-37; depth 2f-3. 



The specimens from the brook (255 in part) are very slender, depth 3j 

 and 3-| in the length. The dark markings are intense. The first 

 developed dorsal ray of one is prolonged in a filament which reaches 

 the adipose. 

 57. Cheirodon interruptus (Jenyns). 



a. Ten sj^ecimens (No. 266), 28-42 mm., from Campo Grande, June, 



1901, show the following characters: 



Min. Max. Average. 



Lengthinmm 25.0 42.0 31.6 



Anal rays 22.0 27.0 



Depth 2.5 2.8 



Head 3.6 4.0 



Eye 2.6 3.0 



Teeth in maxillar}- 1 



Perforated scales 6 8 6.56 



Scales 5.5 to 6-31 to 32-4 to 5. 



b. Thirteen specimens (part of No. 251), 25-40 mm., from a brook 

 near Arroyo Trementina show the following characters: 



Min. Max. Average. 



Lengthinmm 18.5 34.0 27.81 



Analrays 21 23 



Depth 2.4 3.2 



Head 3.0 4.2 



Eye 2.2 3 



Teeth in maxillary 



Perforated scales 5 11 



Scales 5 to 7-30 to 36-4^ to 6. 



The specimens mentioned above, compared with the description 

 of interruj)tus , give the following results: 



Specimens. Descriptions. 



Anal 20-27. Anal 19-20. 



Scales 30-36^^. Scales 35f . 



Depth 24-3 ^L. Depth 2^. 



Head 3-4^. Head 4. 



Dorsal 10-11. Dorsal 11. 



Pectorals fall short of, reach to Pectorals extend bej^ond root 

 or slightly overlap ventrals. of ventrals. 



A large, black caudal spot. A black spot at the base of the 



A dusky band from tail to be- caudal, 

 low dorsal. Sides with a bright longitudinal 



band. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



58. Cheirodon annae McAtee sp. nov. 



Type No. 4..301«, 43 mm. South America. 



Co-types No. 4,301 (14 specimens). South America. 



This species bears consideral^le resemblance to piscicuhis, from which 

 it may be distinguished by the absence of more than one maxillary 

 tooth; the head 3-4 instead of 5, and the dorsal 9-12 instead of 10. 



Depth 3f ; head 4^; D. 11 ; A. 15; scales 7-32-5. Four five-pointed 

 teeth on each side of the intermaxillary, the median points longest. 

 Maxillary with a single four-pointed tooth, but little smaller than 

 those of the intermaxillary. In the lower jaw there are six four- 

 pointed teeth on each side, largest in the middle and grading to quite 

 small ones at the sides. 



Origin of the dorsal nearer the base of the caudal than tip of snout. 

 Pectorals not to ventrals; ventrals not to anals. Coloration (in alco- 

 hol) dark olive; belly light golden; a silvery band from base of caudal 

 to angle of opercle margined above by blackish. Sides of head silvery. 



The co-types show considerable variation. Some have 5 teeth on 

 each side of intermaxillary and lower jaw. Two have no teeth in the 

 maxillaries. Other variations as follows: 



Dorsal 9-12; anal 12-15; scales 6 or 7-32 to 36-5 or 6; depth 4i 

 -31; head 44-3i; eye in head 3^-24. 



Details of specimens : 



Min. Max. Average. 



Lengthinmm 29.0 43.0 37.2 



Dorsal 9.0 12.0 



Anal 12.0 15.0 



Depth 3.4 4.2 



Head 3.4 4.2 



Eye 2.8 3.2 



Teeth in maxillary 1 1 



Perforated scales 7 9 



Scales 6 to 7-32 to 36-5 to 6. 



(The above description is by one of my students, Mr. Waldo Lee 

 McAtee, who dedicates the species to his mother. — C. H. E.) 



59. Cheirodon insignis Steindachner. 



Chirodon insignis Steindachner, Fisch-Fauna ties Cauca und Flusse bei 



Guayaquil, 22, Pi. VI, fig. 3, 1880 (Cauca.). 

 Cheirochti inaignis Ulrey, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., VIII, 291 (Para, Brazil). 



A number of specimens of this species are in the collection. They 

 were mostly confounded with H cmigrammiis luetkeni. In all the 

 specimens the caudal spot is large and sharply defined, not extending 

 to the tip of the rays. It is bordered in front by an area of greater or 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



less extent which is entirely free from pigment, and behind by two yel- 

 lowish spots. Thi-ee specimens (part of 253) are light straw color 

 with a yellowish fatty humeral area ; a faint dark line along the middle 

 of the sides. In two of these the spines of the lower caudal are nearly 

 typical, in the third they are weak. Arroyo Trementina. 



Seven specimens (part of 219) are notably darker; in only one of 

 these is the serration of the caudal spines t3'pical. Young -wdth a 

 black lateral band. Arroyo Pypucu. -* 



Nine specimens (257), slender, elongate, quite dark, three of them 

 with the typical caudal serrature, the others with the caudal rays not 

 spine-like. AiToyo Pj-pucu. 

 60- Aphyocarax dentatus sp- nov. Piki. 



Type Xo. 10,030 (part of No. 6), 71 mm. ^- Asuncion, Rio Paraguay 

 (Laguna). November, 1899. 



Co-types, four specimens, No. 10,038 (part of No. 6), 53-71 mm. 

 Asuncion. One specimen, No, 10,033 (96), 70 mm. Asuncion. April, 

 1900. Six specimens, No. 10,030 and 10,031 (237 and 247), 33-60 mm. 

 From Aguadas, near Arroyo Trementina. December, 1900. Four 

 specimens. No. 10,036 (8), 65-80 mm. Asimcion, Rio Paraguay (La- 

 gmia). November 1899. Piki. One specimen. No. 10,037 (found 

 with 90). From Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. April, 1900. Taken vciih 

 a seine. 



This species differs from pusillus and alhurnus chiefly in the length of 

 the snout and the maxillary and in the number of teeth in the man- 

 dible. 



Elongate, ventral profile slightly more curved than the dorsal. 

 Dorsal profile but shghtly convex from the tip of the snout to the ori- 

 gin of the dorsal, from origin of dorsal to base of caudal straight. 



Head small, 4 in length, its depth 1| in its length. The teeth in a 

 single series above and below. Maxillary teeth largely concealed, 

 covering over half the anterior edge in the young; less in the old on 

 account of the great elongation of the maxillary. Maxillary short in 

 young, increasing rapidly in length with age, scarcely reaching 

 beyond origin of eye in young, to end of pupil in the old. 



Mouth small, very obhque in young, large and horizontal in adult, the 

 jaws equal. Second and third suborbital bones large, entirely covering 

 the cheek. The opercle triangular, its width 1| in its depth. 



The eye small, 1 in snout, 4 in the head, Ih in the interorbital. 



The dorsal small, its height 1^ in the length of the head. Its last 

 ray 2^ in its height. Depth of caudal peduncle little less than half the 

 length of the head. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



The caudal small, deeply divided, its lobes equal to the length of 

 the head. 



Pectorals reaching f distance to ventrals. Ventrals reaching f dis- 

 tance to origin of anal. 



Height of anterior rays of anal equal to length of ventrals, the last 

 half of the anal but half as high. 



Color in alcohol, straw. A faint silvery band extending from base 

 of caudal to below the dorsal fin. The lower lip black. The fins im- 

 maculate. A note of the collector with No. 237 states that the caudal 

 fin is red. -: 



Some of the examples preserved in formalin show the dorsal and pec- 

 torals edged with black in front. In a number of specimens the middle 



caudal rays are dusky. 



Min. !Max. Average. 



Lengthinmm 33.0 79.0 55.7 



Anal 18.0 22.0 



Depth 3.4 4.0 



Head 3.8 4.0 



Eye 3.5 4.0 



Perforated scales 7 14 



f Intermaxillary 14 20 



Teeth] Maxillary 9 13 



[ Mandibular 36 42 



Scales 5.5 to 7-36 to 39-4.5 to 6. 



61. Aphyocarax alburnusT 



A single specimen agreeing in many respects \^-ith alburnus, of which 

 we have not the original description. Length 31 mm. A. 19. Scales 

 5^-36-4+ ; depth 3 ; head 3| ; eye 2f in the head, 8 scales perforated ; 

 14 intermaxillary, 2 maxillary and IS mandibular teeth. Mouth* very 

 minute, snout little more than half the eye. 



The specimen is deeper than in descriptions of alburnus. 



62. Aphyocharax anisitsi sp. nov. 



Type No. 10,028, 41 mm. (part of 8). Asuncion. 



Co-types No. 10,027, one specimen (No. 6). Asimcion. 



No. 10,029, three specimens (No. 7). Asuncion. 



No. 10,024, nine specimens (160), Campo Grande. 



No. 10,026, six specimens (264), Campo Grande. 



No. 10,031, one specimen (94). Arroyo Trementina. 



No. 10,025, one specimen (226). Arroyo Chagalalina. 



This species is very closely related to alburnus from the Peruvian 

 Amazons. It differs from that species chiefly in the number of scales 

 in the lateral line. 



Description of the type: 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



Depth 3^; head 4; D. 10; A. 19; scales 33, seven perforated. Slen- 

 der, elongate; dorsal and ventral profiles eqiiall}' arched. Head 

 pointed, mouth small, obUqiie, the lower jaw slightly projecting; 

 eye twice as long as snovit, 2h in head. Seven teeth in each inter- 

 maxillaiy, 2-3 in each maxillar}", 10 in each side of the mandible. 

 Maxillary little beyond vertical from front of orbit. 



Origin of dorsal much behind ventrals, equidistant from tip of snout 

 and middle of caudal lobes. Caudal moderately forked. Pectorals 

 reaching to ventrals, ventrals not to anal. None of the rays filiform. 



Straw colored, upper surface peppered "uith pigment cells, tip of 

 lower jaw and snout dusk3\ Xo distinct markings. 



In the table below is given the measiu-ements of 16 specimens: 



Min. Max. Average. 



Lengthinnmi 34.0 41.0 36.11 



Anal 19.0 23.0 



Depth 3.0 3.75 



Head 3.75 4.2 



Eye 3.0 3.33 



Perforated scales 6 9, 



[ Intermaxillary 13 16 



Teeth -{ Maxillarv 2 3 



[ Mandibular 18 20 



Scales 5 to 5.5-30 to 34-4.5 to 6. 



63. Hemig^ammus melasopterus sp. nov. 



Type Xo. 10,039 (245), 37 mm. From Aguada, near Arroyo Tremen- 

 tina. December, 1900. 



Co-types Xo. 10,040, one specimen (244), 35 mm. From Aguada, 

 near Arroyo Trementina, December, 19 . 



Co-types Xo. 10,041, five specimens (216), 29-35 mm. Taken in a 

 trap in the Arroj^o Pj'pucu. January, 1901. 



A moderately elongate species. Depth 2f. Profile of snout 

 abruptly rising, slightly concave at the nape, rising gently and convex 

 to the origin of the dorsal. Lower jaw slightly projecting, maxillary 

 toothless, long, extending obUquety downward and backward to the 

 middle third of the eye. The upper edge of the opercle emarginate. 

 The subopercle large. 



Eye large, 2^ in head, | in interorbital. h in snout. 



Lateral line 34, incomplete, only the first five scales perforated. 



The fins large. The height of the dorsal greater than the length of 

 the head by -J the diameter of the eye. Last dorsal ray 2^ in the 

 highest ray. 



Caudal deeply divided, its lobes subequal. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Pectorals reaching beyond the base of the ventrals. 



A'entrals reaching beyond the origin of the anal. 



Anal moderately high its entire length, its last ray 1\ in the fourth 

 ray, which equals the diameter of the eye. 



Color: Top of head dusky. A deep V-shaped humeral spot. 

 Dorsal almost black. The middle caudal rays black. The last five 

 anal rays and the distal f of the other ra^'s black. The tips of the ven- 

 trals dusky. There is no caudal spot or lateral band. 



In some of the co-types the tips and bases of the dorsal rays are 

 white, the black band of the anal is narrower and the outer caudal 

 ra3"s are pigmented. 



Related to unilineatus (Gill) and dcgans Steind. 



The following table of measurements shows the variations among 



the seven specimens: 



Mill. Max. Average. 



Length in mm 29.0 37.0 34.2 



Dorsal 10.0 11.0 



Anal 27.0 28.0 



Depth 2.6 3.0 



Head ' 3.2 3.6 



Eye 2.4 2.5 



Scales 6.5 to 7.5-33 to 34-5.5 to 6.5. 



64. Hemigrammus lutkeni Boulenger. 



Tetragonopterits riruktris interrupta Liitken. Velhas Flodens Fiske, XIII, 

 215, 1S7.5 (preoccupied by Tetraganopterus interruptus J eny ns^=Cheirodon 

 interruptus) . 



Tetraganopterus liitkenii Boulenger, Ann. and Mag. Xat. Hist., 1SS7 (Rio 

 Grande do Sul). 



Sixteen alcoholic specimens (29), the largest 35 mm. Estancia la 

 Armonia. 



Straw colored, a vertical humeral spot, a distinct caudal spot con- 

 tinued to the ends of the middle caudal rays, gradually narrowed and 

 continued forward as a dark lateral band or line sometimes to the 

 humeral spot, more frequently not so far. 



Lateral line of the left side developed on 13, 24, 10. 13, 29, 11. 21, 

 10, 11, 25, 15, 10 (average 16) scales in as many individuals. In those 

 with the longest lateral line some of the scales are simply notched, 

 without a developed tube. 



A large nimiber of formalin specimens from Pypucu (219) and a 

 few from Arroyo Trementina (253) differ from the above in that the 

 dark lateral band or line abruptly joins the caudal spot, appearing as 

 a marking independent from that spot, while in the specimens from La 

 Armonia it seems to be a direct continuation of that spot. They are 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



much darker, which is probably due to the preservation and also to 

 the locality. They differ also in having fewer scales with tubes. 

 Counts in 4 specimens from the Pypucu. 



D. A. Scales. Tubes in Lat. 1. 



12 25 7 -33-4 9 



? 23 7 -33-5 9 



10 21 7 -34-5 10 



10 21 7^-35-5^ 10 



A number of other specimens from the Pypucu, taken at random, 

 have the following number of tubes: 14, 15, 9, 18, 10, 12, 12, 13, 8, 11, 

 8, 13 (average nearly 12). 



65. Hemigrammus kennedyi Eigenmann sp. nov. Tarcui. 



Type No. 10,016, a specimen 57 mm. long (159). Campo Grande. 

 February, 1901. 



Co-types No. 10,063, 5 specimens taken with the type at Campo 

 Grande. 



Co-types No. 10,012, twenty-five specimens (267). Campo Grande. 

 June, 1901. 



Co-types No. 10,019, ten specimens (268). Campo Grande. June, 

 1901. 



Co-type No. 10,018, one specimen (241). Arroyo Trementina. 



This species closely resembles Pcecilurichthys nniltiradiatus Steind. 

 It differs widely from all other species of Hemigrammus. 



Description of type : 



Head ^■, depth 2^; D. 10; A. 46; scales 10-45-8. 



Compressed, ventral profile regularly arched, its lowest point be- 

 tween ventrals and anal; dorsal profile depressed at nape, angulated 

 at the origin of the dorsal. 



Eye large, h in snout, 2\ in head, 1 in interorbital. Mouth small, 

 maxillary reaching to eye, no teeth on its margin. 



Suborbitals covering the entire cheek. Scales largest over pectorals. 

 Lateral line extending, with interruptions increasing in size and fre- 

 quency, to the last fourth of the anal. 



Dorsal midway between tip of snout and caudal, directly over origin 

 of anal; caudal deeply forked; anal low and long, its length slightly 

 exceeding the height of the body; ventrals reaching to anal, pectorals 

 beyond origin of ventrals. 



A dark spot at base of caudal, a narrow dusky lateral Ijand. Base 

 of caudal rays and a spot just above the origin of the lateral line yellow. 



The co-types vary in some respects from the description given above. 

 Anal 40-46; Lat. 1., 40-45. In a few specimens there is a blackish 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



humeral spot just above the origin of the lateral line. The lateral 

 line varies considerably in the degree of completeness. In three speci- 

 mens at least it extends to the caudal, but is interrupted. In the ma- 

 jority it stops far short of the caudal. 



66. Poeeiluriclithys scabripinnis (Jenyns). 



One specimen, 32 mm. (part of 219), Arroyo Pypucii. One speci- 

 men (228), Arroyo Chagalalina. 



Scales 7-35-5; D. 11; A. 26-29; head 3f; depth 2f. 



One tooth on the maxillarj-; a conspicuous lateral band from eye 

 to the end of the middle caudal rays, diffuse on the head, narrow on the 

 sides in front, darkest and widest on the caudal peduncle. No humeral 

 spot. Back with numerous pigment cells. 



Compressed. Mouth small, maxillary not reaching beyond anterior 

 margin of eye. Eye 2h in head, greater than interorbital, snout 1^. 



Origin of dorsal behind ventrals, nearer caudal than tip of snout. 

 Anal not falcate. Pectorals about to ventrals, ventrals to anal. 



These specimens differ distinctly from scabi-ipinnis in color, having 

 a conspicuous black band. They were, however, preserved in formalin, 

 which has a tendency to destroy the silvery structural bands and to 

 bring out the underlying black pigmentary markings. The species 

 is evidently closely related to wappi from British Guiana. 



67. Poeeiluriclithys multiradiatus Steind. Mojarra. 



Ten specimens, 39-93 mm., from Asuncion (14, 70, 93, 137, 38, 168). 

 These specimens differ from the typical multiradiatus of the Amazons 

 in the number of rays and scales. 



Anal 41-45 (40-41 in specimens from Teffe, the type locality). 



Lat. line 45-47(41-42 in the types). Depth 2-2^ (2). 



Caudal spot distinct, becoming faint with age; humeral spot indis- 

 tinct or absent. Maxillary toothless, or with a single rather large 

 caducous tooth near its upper end. 



It is possible that these specimens repre'sent a distinct species. 



68. Poecilurichtliys abramis Jenyns. Mojarrita. 



Three specimens, Asuncion (11); Arroj'o Trementina (246). 

 Humeral spot oval, distinct; A. 30 and 32; scales 10-46-9 and 

 9-44-9. This species is very similar to laciistris. 



69. Poecilurichthys maculatus lacustris Liitken. Mojarra. 



Twenty -three specimens, Asuncion (88, 84, 12), Estancia La Armonia 

 (16), Arroyo Trementina (181, 251, in part 243). 



Anal 27-31; lat. 1., 37-40. In a number of specimens there is a 

 black spot at the base of each scale of the sides, forming longitudinal 

 stripes. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jlll}% 



70. Poecilurichtliys dichrourus Kner. 



Six specimens (Xo. 7 in part), Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. November, 

 1899. "Edible; taken in a fish trap; commonly called Piki." 



Two specimens (251 in part), creek near Arroyo Trementina. 



These specimens are slenderer than Kner's figure. There is a 

 faint caudal spot. The middle caudal rays and the distal half of each 

 caudal lobe black. Maxillary with one or two small teeth. 



The following table shows the measurements of the eight specimens: 



Min. Max. Average. 



Length in mm 34.0 48.0 41.1 



Anal 24 28 



Depth 3.0 3.75 



Head 3.5 4.0 



Eye 2.4 2.6 



Scales 5.5 to 5.5-34 to 39-4.5 to 5. 



71. Poeciluriclithys agassizii Steindachner. 



Four specimens. Arroyo Trementina (240) ; Arroyo Chagalalina (229). 

 Head S\-Sh; depth 2|-2*; eye 2|-2| in the head; A. 24-26; Lat. 

 1., 25. 



72. Poeciluriclithys moenkhausii -«p- nov. 



Type No. 10,001, a specimen 43 mm. (251 in part), a brook near 

 Arroyo Trementina. 



Co-type No. 10,002, one specimen (251 in part), taken -uith the 

 type. 



Co-types No. 10,003, nine specimens (255), a brook near Arroyo 

 Trementina. 



This species is related to Tetragonopterus paucidens, from which it 

 differs in the depth, the greater number of scales and absence of caudal 

 spot. 



A symmetrical, elongate species. Depth 3^. Snout blunt. The 

 dorsal and ventral profiles of the head alike. Body deepest just 

 before the ventrals, tapering gently both above and below to the cau- 

 dal. Scales moderate. Lateral line complete. 



Head short, 4 in the length, its depth 1-^ in its length. The oper- 

 cle narrow, its width more than 2 in its depth. The maxillar}- moder- 

 ately long, extending to laeneath the anterior rim of the orbit, two small 

 teeth in its upper end. 



The eye moderately large, 3 in the head, 1 in the interorbital. 



Dorsal rays 9. Height of dorsal slightly less than the length of the 

 head. The origin of the dorsal falls just back of the insertion of the 

 ventrals. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



Caudal moderate, the depth of the cleft about f the length of the 

 lobes. 



Anal moderately long, its first 5 rays high, equal to distance from 

 tip of snout to posterior margin of preopercle ; the last half of the anal 

 but ^ as high. 



Pectorals small, reaching f distance to ventrals. 



Ventrals small, reaching f distance to origin of anal. 



In formalin the specimens are almost without color. In some the 

 middle caudal rays are dusky, and a grayish band, probably silvery 

 in life, extends from the base of the caudal to the humeral region. 

 The fins are immaculate. 



Scales 5^37-4^; A. 19-26; D. 9; depth 3^; head 4; eye 3. The 

 following table gives the measurements of eight specimens: 



Min. Max. Average. 



Length in mm 37.0 46.0 40.5 



Depth : 3.5 3.75 



Head 4.0 4.0 



Eye 2.5 3.0 



Teeth in maxillary 2 2 



Anal 19.0 26.0 



Scales 4.5 to 5.5-35 to 38-4 to 4.5. 



73. Tetragonopterus orbicularis Cuv. and VaL 



Four specimens (252), Arroyo Trementina. It is jDOSsible that these 

 specimens are the young of chalceus. Depth 2 in the length ; Lat. 1., 35. 



74. Tetragonopterus chalceus Agassiz. Mojarra. 



Tetragonopterus rufipes Val. in D.Orb. Voy. Amer. Merid. Poiss, PI. 11, fig. 1. 



Four specimens, Asuncion (86, 13) ; Arroyo Trementina (256). Anal 

 34-37; lat. 1., 30 or 31. 



The description of rufipes makes it a distinct species, but the figure 

 shows it to have an anal much shorter than that described . 



75. Brycon hilarlii (Cuv. and Val.). 



Chalceus hilarii Cuv. and Val., XXII, 246, 1848; Castelnau Anim. Amer. 



Sud. Poiss., 68, PI. 36, fig. 1, 1855: Ivner, Denksch. Acad. Wien, 1860, 



XVIII, 10. 

 Brycon hilarii Giinther, Cat. Fish Brit. :\Ius., V. 336, 1864. 

 Chalceus orbignyanus Cuv. and Val., XXII, 249, Kner, I. c, 11. (Rio de la 



Plata, Rio Guapore.) 



One specimen (194), 21 cm., Arroyo Trementina. 



Head 4i; depth 3i; D. 11; A. 27; V. 8; P. 14; scales 15-75-12. 



A robust species. Body moderately deep, depth 3^. Upper pro- 

 file of head nearly straight to base of occipital process, where the profile 

 rises slightly more rapidly for about ^ way to the origin of the dorsal; 

 the other f almost straight and rising to the origin of the dorsal at a 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



very low slope. From the last ray of the dorsal to the adipose almost 

 straight. Caudal peduncle deep, compressed. Ventral profile evenly 

 curved from the isthmus to the origin of the anal. Belly round to 

 the ventrals, keeled between the ventrals and the anus. 



Head short and hea^y, 4J in total length, height to base of occipital 

 process Ij in length. 



Eye large, Sf in head, 2 in the interorbital. Snout short, equal to 

 eye, 3i in head. 



Each intermaxillary with an outer series of about 9 small, even 

 tricuspid teeth. Behind each of these runs a more irregular series 

 of slightly larger tricuspid teeth. Behind the inner ends of these 4 

 runs a cross series of about 4 or 5 larger five-cuspid teeth. Maxillaries 

 narrow, straight, not sheathed by the preopercle, each with a single 

 series of fine teeth extending about f its length. Mandible with an 

 outer series of tricuspid teeth, the forward 6 on each side much larger 

 than the others. Of these six the second is the largest, the first and 

 third are equal, the others are smaller. Just behind the center of this 

 series are 10 very small conical teeth. 



The upper lip is very thin and adnate. The lower is thick and free, 

 and at the outer ends it thins out and the free edge turns down to join 

 the point of the maxillaries. 



The tongue is thick, soft and adnate. The rami of the dentary wide 

 apart; the four branchiostegals exposed. Gill-rakers setiform, gill- 

 membranes united in front but free from the isthmus. The longest 

 ray of dorsal 5 in length. Origin of dorsal in the middle of the length, 

 just back of the insertion of the ventrals; the shortest ray 3 in the 

 longest. 



Pectorals If in head, not reaching ventrals. Ventrals 1^ in the 

 head, reaching the anus. Anal moderately high, its last ray If in the 

 third, the latter f of the anal sheathed by scales for about ^ its height. 



Caudal but slightly indented; its middle ray 2f in the head. 



Adipose over the last anal rays. 



Color in formalin : Flesh color, darker above ; a faint hmneral spot 

 and a large black spot at the base of the caudal and extending to the 

 ends of the middle caudal rays. An indistinct blotch on the opercle. 

 The snout and top of the head dark. A faint suggestion of longitudinal 

 striations following the lines of scales. 



76. Chalcinus angulatus curtus Garman. Pira guira. 



Nine specimens, Asuncion (146, 75); Estancia La Armenia (26); 

 Arroyo Trementina (184); Campo Grande (266). 



77. Gasteropelecus stellatus Kner. 



Nine specimens (69), Laguna Pasito, Asuncion. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



78. Characinus gibbosus (Linn.). 



Three specimens (192), Laguna of Arroyo Trementina. 



Head 3|-3|; depth 2|-2f; lat. 1., 55-59; D. 10 or 11; A. 50-53. 



79. Characinus squamosus sp. nov. 



Type No. 9,961, a specimen (72), 215 mm., Pasito Lagmia. This 

 species is at once distinguished by its small scales and long anal. 



Head 4; depth 3f ; D. 12; A. 54; P. 14; V. 8; lat. 1., 112. 



Profile nearly straight from tip of snout to nape. At the nape it 

 rises abruptly for about j of the distance to the dorsal, from which 

 point to the origin of the dorsal the slope is very gradual. The slope 

 of the back from the origin of the dorsal to its last ray is downward 

 and rather steeper than from the dorsal to the caudal peduncle, which 

 slope is also very slightly convex. 



Lower sides of body evenly curved from the tip of snout to vent. 

 The base of the anal nearly straight. 



Anterior portion of the head shaped very much as in Cynopotamus 

 kneri. 



Snout elongate, 3 in length of head. Eye large, 4f in head, 1^ in 

 interorbital. 



A narrow, unsealed, occipital process equal to the snout in length. 

 Suborbitals moderate, only half covering the lower part of the pre- 

 opercle. The angle of the preopercle rounded, not with a backwardly 

 projecting angle as in C. gibbosus. 



Maxillary almost straight, reaching far beyond the eye, finely toothed 

 its entire length. jMandible when closed shorter than snout. 



Premaxillary teeth in two series; the outer contains 2 canines in 

 front and a smaller one on each side at the end of each premaxillary 

 bone ; the inner series of two smaller canines on each side. Maxillary 

 with a single series of teeth its entire length. 



Mandibular teeth in a single series in the following order: 1st, ten 

 minute teeth ; 2d, a canine corresponding to the upper front canine ; 3d, 

 a small canine pointing obliquely upward and outward; 4th, a large 

 canine fitting into a cavity in the upper jaw; 5th, a small canine cor- 

 responding to the upper posterior canine and followed, 6th, by a series 

 of closely set small teeth. 



Dorsal slightly falcate, its longest ray 5 times in total length to tip 

 of middle caudal rays. Pectorals to middle of vcntrals. A'entrals 

 not reaching origin of anal. Anal long and low, its fourth ray the 

 longest, 2^ times length of last ray. Caudal forked, scaled well up 

 on the lobes. 



Lat. line 112, almost straight, very slightly decurved in front. 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Scales small and roughened on the entire exposed surface; 22 from 

 origin of dorsal to lateral line and 24 from lateral line to origin of anal. 



Dark above, lighter below, with a distinct silvery lateral band jiist 

 above the lateral line. At the base of the caudal a black spot. 



A second specimen (45) of a Characinus. Xo. 9,969, 22 mm., also 

 from Pasito. agrees with the species just described in those characters 

 in which squamosus differs from the other species of Characinus, having 

 A. 54. lat. 1.. about 106 ; the general shape and dentition just as described 

 for the t^^pe of squamosus. It differs, however, in the most striking 

 way in color. In addition to the caudal spot the tip of the lower jaw, 

 a spot in front of the dorsal, a very large band on the proximal f of the 

 first 9 dorsal rays just above the base, and a small spot each at the upper 

 and lower margins of the origin of the caudal are jet black; a fainter 

 small black spot in front of the anal. 



Head 3f ; depth S^-: D. 12; A. 54. 



The color markings are so weU defined and intense that it is scarcely 

 conceivable that the}' should disappear entirely in the adult, and yet 

 the similarity in other respects is so great that we hesitate to give it a 

 separate name. 



80. Eoeboides prognathus BoulengerV 



Twelve specimens (45, 73. 147). Pasito LagUna. 



D. 10; A. 4S-54: lat. 1.. 75-S4; depth 2|-3: head 3*-34. 



A dark spot in the largest specimens above the lateral line, just 

 behind the end of the occipital process. 



A median oval black spot on middle caudal rays and end of caudal 

 pedmicle. A black ^'crtical line bordering the caudal pedmicle behind 

 and ending above and below in slight enlargements. 



81. Roeboides microlepis (Reinh.). Piral. 



FolU' specimens (79,139). Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. These speci- 

 mens differ considerably from those hitherto figmed and described. 



D. 10 or 11; A. 53-56; depth 2i-2t; head 3|-4; lat. 1., 97-100; eye 

 3-3|. 



82. Salminus brevidens (Cuvierl. Dora dillo (golden >. 



Hydrocyon brevidens Cuv., Mem. Mus. .V, 364, PL 27, fig. 1. "N'alenciennes 



in d.Orb', Voy. Amer. Sud. Poiss.. 10, PI. 9 fig .3. 

 Sabninus brevidens Miiller and Troschel, Horae Ichthyol.. I, 16 ; Steindachner, 



Fisch-Faiuia des Cauca und Flusse bei Guaya,guil, 31. ISSO. (Parana.) 

 Sabninus maxillosus Cuv. and Val.. XXII p. 62; Castelnau, Anim. Amer. 



Sud. Poiss., 61, P]. 30. fig. 2: Guuther. Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., V. 350. 1864; 



Giinther. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ISSO, 13 (La Plata); Boulenger, 



Trans. Zool. Soc. Lond.rXIV, 37, 1S96. (Paraguay.) 



Three specimens (37, 89, 262), Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. A. 26; 

 lat.l.. 92-100 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



83. Acestrorhynchus " falcatus (Bloch). 



Salmo falcatus, Bloch, taf. 385. 



XipJwrhynchus falcatus Agassiz, Selecta Genera et Species Pise, 76, 1S29; 

 Ciiv. and Val., XXII, 337; Castelnan, 75 (Amazon). 



Xiphorhamphus falcatus Miiller and Troschel, Hor. Ichthyol, I, 17, 1845 

 (name only) ; id. in Schomburgk Reisen in Brit. Guiana, 635, 1848 (Esse- 

 quibo. Pomeroon) ; Kner, Denlcschr. Acad. Wiss. Wien, XVIII, 57, 1860 

 (Matto Grosso); Giinther. Cat. Fish. Brit Mu.s., V, 354, 1864; Eigenmann 

 and Eigenmann, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, 58. 



XipJwrhatnpkus ferox Giinther, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., XII, 443, 1863 

 (Esseqiiibo) ; Gimther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., V, 355 (Essequibo); Bou- 

 lenger, Trans. Zool. Soc. Lond., XIV, Pt. II, 37, 1896 (Paraguay). 



The X. ferox of Giinther differs from falcatus chiefly in the length of 



the maxillar}^, also in the size of the eye, the scales, etc. Both species 



have been found in the Essequibo river. We have four specimens 



(33 and 49), ranging from 22 cm. to 27 cm., from the Rio Paraguay at 



Asmicion. There is no doubt that these specimens belong to the same 



species. Their measurements are as follows : 



27 cm. A. 24, Scales 107, Eye 6^, Snout 2f , Depth 3f , Max. 1 diam. 



beyond eve. 

 25 cm. A. 27, Scales 106, Eye 6. Snout 2f , Depth 3f, Max. 1 diam. 



beyond eye. 

 23 cm. A. 27, Scales 97, Eye 5i, Snout 2i. Depth 3A, Max. ^ diam. 



beyond eye. 

 22 cm. A. 27, Scales 103, Eye 5i, Snout 2|, Depth 4, Max. | diam. 



beyond eye. 

 The measurements nearly bridge the differences said to exist between 

 falcatus and ferox in the number of anal rays, the scales and length 

 of the maxillary. We have, therefore, placed ferox provisionally in 

 the synonymy of falcatus, of which it is probably the young. A speci- 

 men of X. falcatus in the collections of the Indiana University from 

 *' Brazil," 22 cm., differs from our smallest specimen in the shape of 

 the mouth and the extent of the maxillary. The maxillary extends 

 for a distance equal to f diameters of the eye beyond its posterior 

 border. This difference is in part due to the greater length of the 

 maxillary, and also in part to the fact that it makes less of an angle 

 where it joins the premaxillary. 



In the absence of specimens from the Rio San Francisco the X. lacus- 

 tris of Reinhardt is kept distinct. It is unquestionably a local race of 

 falcatus, if it is not identical with it. 

 84. Acestrorhamphus ' hepsetus (Cuv.) Blaiiquillo. 



One specimen (15), Laguna at Asuncion. As this specimen differs 

 from the available figures of hepsetus, especially in the pectoral, and 

 may represent a distinct species, a description is added. 

 Head 3f ; depth 3^; D. 11; A. 30; scales 13-75-10. 



* New for Xiphorhynchus Agassiz, preoccupied. 

 '' New for Hydrocyon hepsetus Cuv. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jl^lly, 



Form moderatel}' elongate. Snout moderate, 3 in head. Upper 

 profile slightly concave from tip of snout to apex of occipital process; 

 slightly convex from there to the origin of the dorsal. Profile of belh^ 

 almost straight from origin of pectorals to origin of anal. 



Scales moderate, very regularly arranged. 



Palatines each with a single series of strong conical teeth, those in 

 front larger than the others; premaxillaries, maxillaries and mandible 

 each with a single series of conical teeth; two canines in each inter- 

 maxillary-, one at the front end and the other | the way back. Maxillaiy 

 not covered by the preopercle. Xo canines in the maxillary, the teeth 

 pointing backward and largest about the middle of the series. Man- 

 dible heavy, tapering rapidly to the point ; its rami close but not touch- 

 ing along the under side. Four canines in each side of the mandible, 

 a large one on each side in front; a moderate-sized canine about mid- 

 way of the mandible, and between them two small canines on each side ; 

 back of each posterior canine a single series of fine conical teeth; no 

 fine teeth between the canines. 



Gill-rakers moderate, setiform. Eye large, 4 in head. Preorbital 

 narrow. Suborbitals broad. 



Origin of dorsal half-way between tip of snout and tip of the middle 

 caudal raj'S ; its second ray 5\ in the length, its last ray 3 in the second. 



Caudal moderately forked, the lobes pointed; posterior f of anal 

 long and low, its last third produced in a round lobe. 



Ventrals reaching f distance to origin of anal, If in head. 



Pectoral If in head, reaching to base of the ventrals. 



Color silver}-, darker above; caudal reddish, 4 or 5 of the center 

 interradial membranes black; a black basal spot. 



85. Cynodon vulpinus Spix. 



One specimen (270), Rio Paraguay at Asmicion. 



86. Serrasalmo humeralis Cuv. and Val. Pirana. 



Three specimens (78, 193, 204), Rio Paraguay at Asuncion; Arro3^o 

 Trementina. 



D. 16; A. 36; lat. 1., 74-78; head 24; depth 2-2i. 



87. Serrasalmo spilopleura Kner. Pirai (pira= fish, tai = tooth). 



Two specimens (74, 203), Rio Paraguay at Asuncion; Arroyo Tre- 

 mentina. 



D. 15; A. 32; lat. 1., 80; head 3-3t; depth If-lf 



88. Metynnis mola sp nov. 



Type Xo. 10,049, one specimen (part of 191), Arroj-o Trementina. 

 Co-types X'os. 10,050-10,051, two specimens (part of 191), Arroyo 

 Trementina; 75 and 85 mm. 

 Head 3|; depth U; D. 15 or 16; A. 38-40; lat. 1., 72-75. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



Ventral serrse in the co-types 34 and 36 ; of these there are in one 22 

 simple spines, 9 with a double (anterior and posterior) tip and 3 bilat- 

 eral ones ; in the other there are 21 -|- 11 -f 3. 



Form nearly circular. The dorsal profile is very slightly concave at 

 the occiput and the ventral profile about equally concave at the 

 isthmus. Lateral line but slightly decurved near its anterior end. 



The distance from the origin of the dorsal to the lateral line f distance 

 between lateral line and lowest point of the ventral profile. 



Supraoccipital process extending J to origin of dorsal. 



Length of head less than its depth by ^ diameter of eye. Posterior 

 outhne of opercle much flattened, its width 3^ in its depth. Suborbi- 

 tals very narrow, leaving the cheek entirely naked. Maxillary oblong, 

 directed straight downward. Mandible with an outer row of 10-12 

 strong teeth with oblique cutting edges and an inner row of 2 conical 

 teeth at the symphysis. Premaxillary with an outer row of 6-8 medium- 

 sized teeth similar to those in the mandible, and an inner row of 6-8 

 heavy broad-tipped teeth close against the outer row and alternating 

 with them. The outer row lacks the middle tooth. 



Snout equals ^ diameter of eye. Eye large, 2^ in head, 1^ in inter- 

 orbital. 



Base of dorsal 1^ in its height, which equals depth of head. 



Distance between dorsal and adipose dorsal l^ in base of dorsal, 1 in 

 base of adipose. Height of adipose about 3^ in its length. 



Caudal broad, widely emarginate, its middle rays 3 times in distance 

 between tips of its lobes. Caudal peduncle small, its depth equal to 

 diameter of eye. 



Pectorals small, H in head. Ventrals very small and narrow, equal 

 to pectorals, not reaching vent. 



Anal slightly lower at its posterior end than at its anterior, its pos- 

 terior margin slightly convex. 



Color light brown, with 7-8 irregular bars and a few indistinct spots 

 of darker above the lateral line. Fins immaculate. 



This species stands nearest to M. lippincottianus, from which it 

 differs in the greater depth, in the more evenly rounded ventral profile 

 and in a narrow subopercle. 



89. Myleus tiete Eigenmann and Norris. 



A specimen of this species was overlooked when the report on the 

 fishes of S. Paulo, Brazil, was prepared (Revista do Museu Paulista, IV, 

 1900) . The type was but 30 mm. ; the present specimen is much larger, 

 measuring 155 mm. It differs from the ij^e considerably in propor- 

 tions and in color. 

 34 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



D. I. 26; A. II, 33; abdominal sense 36 ( + 8 double ones); lat. 1., 

 about 80. 



Head 4; depth If. Abdominal profile very greatly arched, more or 

 less angulated at the origin of the anal. The anal basis inclined at 

 an angle of about 45 degrees. Dorsal profile regularly arched from 

 nostrils to caudal peduncle, highest at the first dorsal ray; snout 

 decurved. Suborbital narrow, the cheeks mostly naked. 



Eye 2f in head, nearly 2 in interorbital. 



Anal distinctly falcate, the first ray heavy, leathery, about equal to 

 the head in length. Dorsal and caudal naked; anal narrowly sealed 

 at its base. 



Dark above, light below with metallic reflections, no markings such 

 as are seen in the young. 



90. Mylossoma^ albiscopus (Cope). Piraiia, Palometa. 



Two specimens (2, 85), Rio Paraguay and Laguna at Asuncion. 



91. Colossoma' brachypomus (Cuv.). Pacii. 



One specimen (261), Rio Paraguay at Asuncion. This specimen, 

 540 mm. long, lacks an adipose dorsal fin. 



92. Symbranclius marmoratus Bloch. Piramboi (Pira — fisli, mboy = snake). 



Five large specimens (136), Asuncion (152), Campo Grande; Pirayu. 

 Nine j^oung (103), Rio Branco. 



93. Sternarchus albifrons L. 



One specimen (199), Arroyo Trementina. 



94. Hypopomus brevirostris Steindachner. 



Four specimens (108, 158, 220), Matto Grosso or Asuncion, Campo 

 Grande and Arroyo Chagalalina. 



95. Eigenmannia virescens (Val.). 



Two specimens (109 and 200), Matto Grosso or Asuncion, Arroyo Tre- 

 mentina. 



96. Giton fasciatus (Pallas). Anguilla. 



Four specimens (21, 161, 198), Estancia La Armonia, Campo Grande; 

 Arroyo Trementina. 



97. Fundulus (!) paraguayen&is sp. nov. 



Type No. 10,064, a female, with ripe eggs, 57 mm. (222). Laguna near 

 Arroyo Trementina. 



D. 10; A. 12; lat. 1., 34; head 3^; depth 4. 



Elongate, rather slender, compressed from anus backward. Dorsal 

 and ventral profile nearly equally arched to above the ventrals. Head 



* New for Myletes albiscopus Cope. 

 ® New for Myletes oculus Cope. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



subpyramidal, the mouth small, the lower jaw projecting, its tip on a 

 level with the upper margin of the pupil when it is closed ; outer teeth 

 enlarged. Eye greater than snout, 3^ in head, 1^ in interorbital. Pre- 

 orbital f the diameter of the eye. Dorsal placed far back, its origin 

 slightly in advance of that of the anal, its distance from the eye twice 

 its distance from the middle caudal ray. The last raj's of the dorsal 

 and anal reaching caudal. Height of dorsal and anal ecjual to the 

 postorbital part of the head. Caudal rounded, about equal to the head 

 in length. Ventrals small, reaching past anus but not to anal; pec- 

 torals not quite reaching ventrals, equal to head less one-half snout. 



Dark brown, four light bands on the posterior half of the body, most 

 marked between the dorsal and anal ; ventral surface and region along 

 either side of anal colorless. Dorsal and anal fins with about four 

 longitudinal dark bands alternating wdth light. Caudal with numerous 

 irregular cross-bars of alternating light and dark. Ventrals and pec- 

 torals more faintly and irregularly barred. 



The single specimen is a female wdth ripe eggs. With the present 

 material it is impossil^le to determine whether the species is viviparous 

 or not. The generic position of the specimen is therefore in doubt. 



98. Tylosurus amazonicus (Steind.). Fez de espada. 

 One specimen (32), Laguna Asuncion. 



99. Flagiosciou teruetzi Boulenger. Corubina. 



Two specimens (41), Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. 



This species is rare, but one of the finest food^fishes. The specimens 

 differ from Boulenger's type in having conspicuous black axillary spots. 



100. Pachyurus bonariensis Steindachner. Corubina. 



Three specimens (1, 144, 201), Laguna of Rio Paraguay at Asuncion; 

 Laguna of Arroyo Trementina. 



Analysis of the Genera and Subgenera of American Cichlid/E 



[a. Spinous and soft portions of the dorsal of equal extent, or the 



former the longer. 

 h. First gill-arch normal (without additional lobe above). 



c. Gill-rakers long. 



d. Gill-rakers close set and very long, setiform, numerous (about 85). 



e. Anal spines 3, alternating. Body compressed, oblong, covered with 



scales of moderate size. Dorsal spines numerous (13 or 14). 

 Each jaw with a front series of small awl-shaped teeth, behind 

 which is one or more series of smaller teeth. Cleft of mouth 

 of moderate width. Scales on cheeks in 5 or more series. Soft 

 dorsal and anal naked, 1. Ch.etobranchus. 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jl^ly, 



ee. Anal spines 6. Dorsal spines 15 or 16. Preorbital less than 

 orbit in width. Scales on cheek in 3 or 4 series. Soft dorsal 

 and anal scaled, 2. Ch^tobranchopsis. 



dd. Gill-rakers stiff, lanceolate, crenulate on inner margin. Perciform. 

 Scales small. Spinous and soft dorsals of nearly equal extent, 

 and separated by a notch. Anal spines 3. Each jaw with a 

 broad band of villiform teeth. Dorsal and anal fins scaled, 



3. CiCHLA. 



cc. GiU-rakers short and few. 

 /. ^^ertical limb of preopercle entire. 



g. Scales of the lateral line much longer than the others. About 2 

 transverse series of scales in the anterior part to each scale of 

 the lateral line. First series of teeth incisors, separated from 



the rest by a moderate space, 4. Uaru. 



gg. Scales of the lateral line not larger than the others. 



\li. A series of incisors, a band of vilhform teeth beliind them. Anal 



with 8 spines, 5. Neotroplus. 



hh. Teeth all conical, the front series remote or not. 

 i. Premaxillary ven,'- greatly protractile. 

 /. Anal spines 3. 



k. Lateral line not overlapping. Snout equal to postorbital portion 

 of head. Mouth oblique, preorbital narrow {h orbit). Nos- 

 trils nearer tip of snout than eye, 6. Acaropsis. 



kk. Lateral line with the upper and lower limbs overlapping. Snout 

 much produced, more than twice the length of postorbital por- 

 tion of head. Preorbital very large, nearly twice as wide as the 

 eye. Nostrils much nearer orbit than tip of snout. Mouth 

 low, nearly horizontal. Premaxillary an orbital diameter below 

 the eye. Caudal denseh' scaled. Maxillary reaching to nos- 

 trils, 7. Retroculus. 



jj. Anal spines 6. Snout not greater than postorbital portion of head. 

 Preorbital narrow. Mouth oblique, premaxillary on level of 

 lower third of eye, more protractile than in the other genera. 

 Maxillary reaching to front margin of eye. The origin of the 

 ventral falls vertically below that of dorsal, . . 8. Petenia. 

 n. Premaxillary comparatively little protractile. 



I. Ventrals inserted behind origin of dorsal. 

 m. Cheeks scaled. 

 71, Jaws subequal. 

 0. Anal spines 3. 



p. Soft portions of vertical fins denselj^ scaled to near the tip ; dividing 



line between fins and body indistinct. About 6 of the anterior 



teeth of lower jaw enlarged canines, ... 9. Astronotus, 



pp. Soft portions of dorsal and anal naked or scaled on base only. 



Caudal scaled at its basal half. Lower jaw wdthout enlarged 



canines 10. JiQUiDENS. 



00. Anal spines more than 3, some of the teeth usually enlarged, often 



canine-like. 

 q. Lower lip with a frenum, its folds interrupted mesially, 



11. Cichlosoma. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



r. Anal spines 4 to 9, (Cichlosoma). 



rr. Anal spines 10 to 11 (Archocentrus). 



qq. Lower lip without freniun. forming a free fold for its whole length, 



12. Heros. 

 nn. Upper jaw projecting. Anal spines four. Cleft of mouth short. 

 Scales on cheek small, in more than 5 series, . 13. Theraps. 

 mm. Head entirely naked. Scales of nape very small, extending to 

 the occipital region. Scales large, lateral line 24 + 15. Mouth 

 large. Nares very minute, at the tip of the snout. Gill-mem- 

 branes united to the isthmus; gill-rakers small, 



14. BOGGIANIA.*" 



II. Ventrals in front of origin of dorsal, .... 15. ^Iesoxauta. 



ff. Vertical limb of preopercle serrate. 



s. Jaws equal. Scales rather large, those of the lateral line equal 



ordinary scales in size. 

 t. Body short and deep as in Astronotus, ... 16. Crenicara. 



tt. Body elongate, as in Crenicichla, 17. Dicrossus. 



ss. Lower jaw much projecting. Mouth wide, snout depressed. Fewer 

 scales on the lateral line than in the series just above it, 



18. Crexicichla. 



hb. First gill-arch with a downward projecting lobe on its upper limb, 

 the rakers carried on the free margin of this limb (eggs carried 

 in the gill chamber). . 



u. Preorbital not deeper than eye. Eye equidistant from tip of snout 



and upper angle of gill-opening, .... 19. Biotodoma." 



uu. Preorbital in adult prolonged, much deeper than the eye. Eye 



placed high, much nearer upper angle of gill-opening than tip 



of snout, 20. Geophagus. 



V. Base of dorsal fin without scales, . . . .21. (Sataxoperca). 



vv. Base of dorsal scaled, 22. (Geophagus). 



aa. Soft portion of dorsal longer than spinous portion. 



w. First gill-arch with a downward projecting lobe above, as in Geo- 

 phagus. Anal spines 3, dorsal spines 7 or 8. Body very long. 



Preopercle entire 23. Biotcecus.^^ 



WW. First gill-arch normal. Body short and deep. 



X. Gill-rakers obsolete. Anal spines 6 to 10. Covered with small 

 ctenoid scales. Soft dorsal and anal scaly. Teeth small, occu- 

 pying only the symphyseal portion of jaw. ]Mouth small, very 



oblique, 24. Symphysodon, 



XX. Gill-rakers setiform. Anal spines six, graduated. Narrow 

 bands of teeth in the jaws. Mouth small, oblique. Anterior 



'" Boggiania, Perugia, Di Alcuni Pesci Raccolti nelV alto Paraguay, 2, 1897 

 ipcellaia). 



This genus is by Perugia considered to be closely related to Crenicichla, but if 

 his description is correct it is very different from this genus or any other genus of 

 this family. 



" Biofodoma, new for Ma^ops, ■whicli is preoccupied in Coleop., 1820. iiiorog 

 living (5w/i«, a home, in allusion to their liabit of carrying the young in the gills. 



'-' New for Saraca, preoccupied in Lepid. 1865, ;:J"'ro<;, living, oiKor house, a 

 home; in allusion to their habit of carrvine their voung in their gills. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



parts of soft dorsal, anal, and first ventral ray much prolonged. 

 Caudal truncate, 25. Pterophyllum. 



101. JEquidens tetramerus Heckel. 



Many specimens from Rio Branco (102); Campo Grande (153); 

 Estancia La Armonia (22); Arroyo Trementina (183, 250); Arroyo 

 Carumbey (20); Tolducuc (232, 233); Salamanca (258). 



D. XV, 10 or 11; A. Ill, 8-10; lat. 1., 14^18 + 7-9. 



102. ^quidens paraguayensis sp. nov. Pira inbocaya. 



Type No. 10,066, a specimen, 100 mm. (part of 66), Asuncion. 



Co-types No. 10,067, nine specimens (66), Asuncion. 



Co-tj^es No. 10,068, five specimens (169), Laguna Asuncion. 



Co-types No. 10,069, five specimens (190), Asuncion (?). 



Co-types No. 10,070. ten specimens (238), Aquadas. 



Other specimens are No. 10,071 (218), two Arroyo Pypucii; No. 

 10,073 (271). one Asuncion; No. 10,074 (217), four Arroyo Pypucu. 



This species is evidently very closely related to Mquidens dorsigera 

 (Heckel) and ^quidens syspilus (Cope). Steindachner states that 

 dorsigera is characterized by a black spot on the spinous dorsal, which 

 was present in all the numerous specimens examined by him. None 

 of the specimens of the new species have such a spot. From syspilus,^^ 

 as far as the meager figure and description of Cope permit a comparison, 

 this species differs chiefly in the number of scales and rays. 



Description of the type: 



Dorsal XIY, 9; A. Ill, 7; lat. hue 16+10 (24 in the series which 

 carries the posterior segment of the lateral line) . Head 2% ; depth 2j. 



Elevated in front, head broad, eye above the tip of the snout, pre- 

 orbital equals eye. Eye 3j in head, 1 in snout, slightly less than inter- 

 orbital. Cheeks with three rows of scales; scales of the body large, 

 of nearty uniform size. The middle rays of the soft dorsal and anal 

 prolonged, reaching beyond middle of caudal, the longest dorsal ray 

 reaching from tip of snout to second fifth of the pectoral. Caudal rays 



^^ Cope's description, Proc. Acad. Sci. Phila., 1S71, p. 255, of syspilus from the 

 Ambyiacu is as follows : 



"Scales in three series on the cheeks, on the body 2-26-7. Radii D. XIV-XV, 

 9; A. Ill, S; caudal rounded. Form elongate oval; depth of body 2.6 times in 

 length without caudal fin, and equal depth of head. Preorbital bone half orbit 

 (in specimen two inclies long) ; orbit 2.5 times, liead nearly twice interorbital 

 space (doubtless much smaller in larger specimens). Profile convex; muzzle 

 oblique; upper lip longer than mandible. 



"Light bro-mi, yellow below. A straight wide black band from the upper pos- 

 terior margin of the orbit to below the end of the spinous dorsal, composed of three 

 confluent spots; a black bar from eye to angle of preoperculum, and another 

 across the base of the caudal fin. Seven vertical browTi cross shades behind the 

 head, on sides." 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



produced, filamentous. Dorsal spines of nearly uniform height; equal 

 to f the length of the head. Outermost ray of the ventrals produced, 

 reaching to the end of the base of the anal. Pectorals reaching beyond 

 origin of anal. 



A series of faint cross-bars on the sides, a black band from the upper 

 part of the eye to near the end of the spinous dorsal, much narrower 

 on the head than on the body. A large black spot in the lateral band 

 near the middle of the body. A dark band down and slightly back from 

 the eye; a dark band across forehead. A black spot on upper half of 

 base of caudal. 



Other specimens differ from the t3'pe in some respects. Among all 

 the specimens examined but one had XIII ; one had XV instead of XIV 

 dorsal spines; a few had 10 rays in the dorsal. The anal rays varied 

 from 6-8. The tubes of the lateral line varied from 14-17 on the ante- 

 rior limb and from 6-10 on the posterior. 



The color varies much in intensity and the median lateral spot and 

 bar down from eye are more conspicuous in the young than in the 

 adult, while the lateral band is much less conspicuous in the young. 



103. Mesonauta festivus (Heckel). 



Two specimens (182), from a Laguna near Arroyo Trementina. 



104. Crenicichla lepidota Heckel. 



Seven specimens, Rio Branco, Matto Grosso (105); Campo Grande 

 (156 and 157) ; Laguna near Arroyo Trementina (188) ; Arroyo Chaga- 

 lalina (224); Arroyo Trementina (249). 



105. Crenicichla saxatilis (Linn.). 



One specimen (10), Laguna of Rio Paraguay. 



106. Geophagus duodecimspinosum Boulenger. Pira mbocaya. 



Eight specimens (3, 67, 76, 141), from the Laguna at Asuncion. 

 There can be no doubt about the identification of the specimens before 

 us with Boulenger's species, although none of them agree with the type 

 in the number of spines. Boulenger gives D. XII, 14; A. Ill, 9; lat. 

 line 18 + 9. Our specimens have the rays and scales as follows: 



The lateral line is interrupted at the caudal, being continued along 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^uly; 



the lower lobe of the caudal fin. The caudal is obliquely truncate or 

 slightly emarginate, the upper lobe being the longer. Sides with ob- 

 scure cross-bars, otherwise as in the type. 



107. Geophagus pappaterra Heckel. 



One specimen (185), from the Laguna near the Arroyo Trementina. 

 D. XVI, 10; A. Ill, 6; lat. line 19 + 10. 



108. Biotodoma trifasciatus sp. iiov. 



Type No. 10,066, a single small specimen, 29 mm. (225), Arroyo 

 Chagalalina. 



Head 3; depth 2f ; D. X, 6; A. Ill, 5; lat. line, 7 + 9. 22 scales along 

 median line. Streak along base of dorsal; lateral band from tip of 

 snout to caudal spot ; a narrow, well-defined oblique band from lower 

 margin of pectoral to origin of anal and continued to tip of first ray 

 dark; an oblique bar from eye dow^n and back, outer rays and most of 

 the base of the ventrals jet black, the rest of the fin colorless. Pec- 

 torals and caudal dusky. Dorsal with a black margin; anal dusky 

 except the streak mentioned above, which is black. Fins yellow in 

 life. Eye nearer snout than gill-slit, | in snout, about 2| in head. 

 Supplementary flap of first gill-arch well developed. Scales large; 

 lateral line not well developed, the anterior part with only nine devel- 

 oped tubes, the last one of which is under the anterior half of the dorsal, 

 only a partial scale between the last developed tube and the dorsal. 

 Pectorals reaching to vent, ventrals to anal, soft dorsal and anal to 

 caudal. 



109. Achirus jenynsii Giinther. Lenguado, Pira Kigua. 



Six specimens (38. 42, 143), Asuncion, Rio Paraguay. March, 1900. 



Bibliography. 



The collection and study of fishes has been more active in the southern part of 

 South America during the last fifteen years than in the northern. Several papers 

 have appeared during this time on the fishes of Rio Grande do Sul, a larger 

 number dealt with the fishes of one part or another of the La Plata system. None 

 of these papers offer a comprehensive account of the fishes of the system, being 

 rather reports on definite collections. We give below a list of the papers dealing 

 with fishes of the La Plata basin published since 1S90. The earlier papers are 

 given in Eigenmann and Eigenmann, 1891. 



Berg. 1895. Sobre Peces de Aqua Dulce, Ann. Mus. Buenos Aires, IV, 

 121-165. 

 1897. Contr. al Conoc. de los Peces Su darner icanos, Ann. Mus., V, 263-302. 

 1899. Communicaciones Ictiologicas I, II, III and IV, Com. Mus Btienos 

 ^ Aires. I, 9-13, 91-97, 165-174, 293-311. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



BorLENGER. 1892. In Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), IX, 284-288. 



1892a. On Some New or I ittle Known Fishes Obtained by Dr. J. W. Evans 

 and Mr. Spencer Moore l^viring Their Recent Expedition to the Province of 

 Matto Grosso, Brazil, Ajin. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), X, 9-12, Pis. I and II. 



1895. On a Collection of Fishes formed by Dr. C. Ternetz in Matto Grosso 

 and Paraguay, Proc. Zool. Sac, 523-529. 



1895a. Viaggio de Dottor Alfr. Borelli nella Rep. Argentine e nel Paraguay. 

 Poissons, Boll. Mus. Torino, X. 



1896. On a Collection of Fishes from Paraguay and Matto Grosso, Trans. 

 Zool Sac. Land., XIV, 25-39, Pis. III-VIII." 



1897. In Boll. Mus. Torino, XII. 



1898. List of the Fishes Collected by Cav. G. Boggiani in the Northern 

 Chaco, A7in. Mus. Genova, 2, XIX, 126-127. 



1898a. Viaggio de Dr. Enrico Festa, Poissons de I'Equateur. Premier 

 Partie. Boll. Mus. Torino, XIII. 



1899. DeiLxieme Partie, I. c, XIV. 



1900. In Boll. Mus. Tor., XV. 



Cope. 1894. On the Fishes Obtained by the Naturalist Expedition in Rio 



Grande do Sul, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc, XXXIII. Note on p. 107. 

 EiGENMAJSTN AND EiGENMANN. 1891. A Catalogue of the Fresh-water Fishes 



of South America, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, p. 1. 

 EiGENMANN AND Bray. 1893. A Revisiou of the American Cichlidse, Ann. 



N. Y. Acad. Sci., VII, 607-624. 

 EiGENMANN AND NoRRis. 1900. Sobre Alguns Peixes de S. Paulo^ Brazil, Re- 

 vista do Museu Paulista, IV, 349-362. 

 HoLMBERG. 1891. Sobre Algunes Peces Nuevos o Poco Conocidos de la Re- 



publica Argentina, Rev. Argent., I, 180-193. 

 VoN Ihering, H. 1898. Contributions to the Herpetology of Sao Paulo, 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Pt. I, pp. 101-109. Desc. Paulicea n. g. 



jahn sp nov. 

 Kerr. 1898. List of Fishes Inhabiting the Range of Swamps in which Lepi- 



dosiren paradoxa has been found, Proc. Zool. Soc, 492. 

 Lahille. 1895. Lista de los Pescados de la Plata, Revista Mus. de la Plata, 



VI, 265-278. 

 Perugia. 1891. Appunti Supra Alcuni Pesci Sud- American! Conservati nel 



Museo Civico di Storia Naturals di Genova, Ann. Mus. Genova (2), X, 



605-657. i 



1897. Di Alcuni Pesci Racollti nell' Alto Paraguay dal Cav. Guido Boggiani, 



Ann. Mus. Genova (2), XVIII, 147-150. 

 Steindachner. 1891. Ueber Einige Characinen Arten aus Siidamerica, 



Ichthyol. Beitr. XV, 22. 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



A COLLECTION OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS FROM ARKANSAS. 

 INDIAN TERRITORY AND WESTERN TEXAS. 



BY WITMER STOXE. 



Diu-ing the months of March and April, 1903, Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry 

 made a zoological reconnaissance in the Ozark Momitain region of 

 southwestern ]\Iissouri and southern Arkansas, visiting also parts of 

 Indian Territory and Texas, in the interests of the Academy. Among 

 the material collected on the trip is an interesting series of reptiles 

 and batrachians, which it has been my pri^^lege to study and of 

 which I herewith present a list. 



While none of the forms appear to be new, the appended records are 

 of much interest as a contribution to our knowledge of the distribu- 

 tion of species in a region which has been but little explored. I have 

 also added notes on such individual variations as the specimens pre- 

 sent, and in the case of the serpents have recorded the number of the 

 caudals and ventrals in the largest and best preserved specimens, 

 which may prove of A^alue in studying the relationship of closely 

 allied geographic races. 



BATRACHIA. 



Typhlomolge rathbuni Stejneger. 



Six specimens from San Marcos, Hays county, Tex. 



Obtained by Mr. John A. Leary from artesian wells, 152 feet deep. 



Plethodon cinereus (Green). 



Chadwick, Mo. (2); Roger (2), Magazine Mt. (9), Ark. 



Plethodon glutinosus (Green). 



Chadwick, Mo.; Blue Mt. Station (.3), Magazine Mt. (3j, Petit Jean 

 Mt. (3), Ark. 



Diemyctylus viridescens Raf. 



Wister, I. T. 

 . This specimen has the red lateral spots and seems to be typical 

 viridescens. 



Bufo valliceps Wieg. 



San Antonio, Tex., one specimen. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



Acris gryllus (LeConte). 



Hartford, Ark.; Wyandotte (2), I. T.; San Marcos (2), New Braun- 

 fels (2), Del Rio, Tex. 

 Hyla arenicolor Cope. 



One specimen from Del Rio, Tex., which seems to be referable to 

 this species. 

 Engystoma carolinense Holbrook. 



One specimen from San Marcos, Tex. 

 Rana virescens Kalm. 



High Bridge (2), New Braunfels (3), Devil's river, Tex. 



REPTILIA. 

 Terrapene major (Agassizi. 



One specimen from Devil's river, Tex. 



While I have no material for comparison, this specimen agrees with 

 Mr. Taylor's description {Pr. U. S. N. M., 1894, p. 576), and certainly 

 can be referred to none of the others recognized in his monograph. 

 The locality is much farther west than any recorded in Mr. Taylor's 

 paper, the nearest point from which he had a specimen being Galveston. 

 Terrapene triunguis (Agassiz). 



A specimen from Limestone Gap, I. T., seems to be referable to this 

 species. Mr. Taylor {I.e., p. 581) states that "the Louisiana form 

 seems to be a dwarf variety of this species," as noticed by Agassiz, and 

 a series of twelve recently received from Avery's Island, La., through 

 the kindness of Mr. E. A. Mcllhenny, support this view. Inasmuch 

 as Agassiz's type of triunguis came from Louisiana, it is the larger 

 form that must be supplied with a name, should such a separation be 

 deemed desirable. 



The Indian Territory specimen before me is dull olive-brown, with 

 more or less obscure yellowish radiating lines or blotches on the plates 

 of the carapace, while the plastron is yellow mottled with small brown 

 spots. 



The Louisiana specimens vary from this same style of coloration 

 to dark brown with small roimded bright yellow spots, arranged some- 

 what in radiating lines but entirely disconnected, plastron usually 

 plain dull yellowish, sometimes with obscure transverse and radiating 

 bands of browm; spots on the head bright yellow and reddish-orange. 



The proportions of the two forms are as follows : 



Length of Greatest 



carapace. width. Height. 



No. 15,607. Limestone Gap, I. T 4..50 ins. .3.50 ins. 2.66 ins. 



Avery's Island, La 4.12 " .3. " 2.37 " 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Kinosternon flavescens (Agassiz). 



One specimen. San Antonio, Tex., of a well-marked Texan form, 

 which Mr. Arthur Erwin B^o"^^l has identified with Agassiz's species 

 as above. 

 Aromochelys odoratus (Dand.). 



One example from San Marco.?, Tex., which seems to be identical 

 with the eastern species. Should it prove to be separable, Agassiz's 

 name tristycha would apparently be available (type loc, "Osage river. 

 Mo., and Wilhamson county, Tex."). The differences he points out 

 — snout more prominent and lower jaw broader below the symphysis — 

 while perceptible in the present specimen, are not sufficient for separa- 

 tion \\dthout the examination of more material. 

 Crotopliytus collaris (Say). 



One specimen each from San [Marcos and Devil's river, Tex., and two 

 from South McAlester, I. T. 



None of these have two rows of interoculars. 

 Holbrookia texana (Troschel). 



One example from Devil's river, Tex. 



Sceloporus undulatus (Latreille). 



Specimens from the foUo\\-ing localities: Chadwick, Mo.; Magazine 

 Mt. and Petit Jean Mt., Ark.; Wister, Limestone Gap and Sugar Loaf 

 Mt., I. T. 



These have the head scales smooth and color as in eastern examples, 

 though a specimen from Wister shows some approach to the next. 



Sceloporus undulatus consobrinus (Bd. and Girard). 



Two from San Marcos, Tex., much lighter than the preceding, with 

 the spots on the back shorter and brighter. 

 Sceloporus coucMi Baird. 



One specimen of this interesting species from Devil's river, Tex. 

 Although Cope does not record this species from Avithin the boun- 

 daries of the United States, Boulanger obtained one from Duval 

 county, Tex. 



The specimen secured by Dr. Pilsbry seems to be perfectly typical. 

 Phrynosoma cornutum (Harlan). 



Three examples from Del Rio, Tex., and one from Devil's river. 



The occipital spines are more nearty perpendicular and the ventrals 

 more carinated than specimens from Alamogordo, X. M. 



Cnemidopliorus gularis Bd. and Girard. 



One specimen from San Marcos, Tex., is true gularis in scale pattern, 

 but the spots are fewer and restricted to the dark areas between the 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



lines, presenting a somewhat different appearance from those recently 

 described from Alamogordo, N. M.^ 

 Liolepisma laterale (Say). 



Obtained from Poteau and Petit Jean Mt., Ark.; Sugar Loaf Mt.. 

 Wyandotte and Limestone Gap, I. T., and New Braunfels, Tex. 



Eumeces quinquelineatus (Linn.). 



A large series representing all age variations from Chadwick, Mo. ; 

 Petit Jean Mt., Magazine Mt., Blue Mt. Station, Ark. ; South McAlester, 

 Limestone Gap, Sugar Loaf Mt., Wyandotte and Wister, I. T. 

 Thamnophis proxima (Say). 



Collected at High Bridge, Pecos river; New Braunfels and Devil's 

 river, Tex. 



The New Braunfels specimen has the dorsal stripe deep red. 



Ventrals 165, 167, 174. Caudals 84, 95. 



Natrix sipedon transversa (HalloweU). 



Four specimens from Devil's river and one from Honda, Tex. If 

 this and other races of water snakes are to be considered subspecies 

 of one group, sipedon must be used as the specific name, as already 

 adopted by Mr. A. E. Brown, as it occurs in the tenth edition of 

 Linnaeus, while jasciatus does not appear until the twelfth. 



Only the young specimens seem to have the transverse spots well 

 marked. 



Ventrals 145 (2), 147 (2), 153. Caudals 69, 71, 79, 82, 83. 

 Natrix sp. 



One very young specimen from Uinta, L T., seems to differ from 

 N. s. transversa. Nearly uniform brown above with an obscure light 

 dorsal stripe, plain whitish below. Ventrals 130. Caudals 45. 



Salvadora grahamiae Bd. and Girard. 



One specimen from New Braunfels, Tex. ^'entrals 180. Caudals 

 89. 



Diadophis arnyi Kennicott. 



Ten specimens from Chadwick, Mo.; ^Magazine Mt., Ark., and Sugar 

 Loaf Mt., I. T. 



This series is quite uniform in color and pattern and the first row of 

 scales is blue-gray in all. It seems very questionable whether this is 

 identical with the collarless D. regalis of Chihuahua, and until we 

 know more of the Mexican representatives of the genus it will be best 

 to use Kennicott's name, which was based upon a specimen from Hyatt, 



^Proc. A. N. S., Phila , 1902, p.f.32. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Kans. The Diadophis from Henness}', Okla., obtained by Prof, Cope 

 in 1893, are all D. amabilis docilis (Bel. and Girard). Ventrals 

 (Arkansas specimens) 156, 158, 167. Caudals 43, 49, 49. 

 Lampropeltis doliatus coccineus (Schlegel). 



Petit Jean Mt., Ark.; Limestone Gap (2), South McAlester, I. T. 



Ventrals 189, 193, 194, 196. Caudals 45, 46, 49, 49. 



Lampropeltis getulus sayi (Hoi brook). 



Sugar Loaf Mt., I. T. 



Ventrals 110. Caudals 51. 

 CarphopMops vermis Kennicott. 



Chad wick. Mo.; Magazine Mt., Roger, Poteau and Blue Mt. Station 

 (2),Ark.,andWister, I.T. 



All bright salmon below posteriorly; paler anteriorly. 



Ventrals 130, 130, 137, 137. Caudals 34, 34, 26, 27. 

 Virginia elegans Kennicott. 



One specimen, Roger, Ark. 



Ventrals 116. Caudals 40. 



Tantilla gracilis Bd. and Girard. 



Blue Mt. Station, Hartford (2), Ark.; South McAlester (5), Sugar 

 Loaf Mt. (2), Limestone Gap (4), Wister, I. T., and Xew Braimfels, 

 Tex. 



Two of the largest have ventrals 117, 129 ; caudals 52, 41. 

 AgMstrodon contortriz (Linn.). 



Sugar Loaf Mt. and Limestone Gap (2), I. T. 



Ventrals 149, 150, 147. Caudals 42, 48, 45. 

 Crotalus horridus Linn. 



Magazine Mt. and Petit Jean Mt., Ark. 



Ventrals 173. Caudals 26. 



Much lighter and more brightly marked than the average eastern 

 specimens. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 54^; 



texas reptiles and their faunal relations, 

 by arthur erwin brown. 

 The Reptiles of Pecos. 



The town of Pecos, Texas, lies on the west bank of the river bearing 

 the same name, at an elevation of about 2,800 feet. The high plain 

 smToimding it and stretching west to the Rio Grande is much broken 

 by irregular mountain ranges of considerably greater height. 



The rainfall at Pecos does not exceed fifteen inches. The mean 

 annual temperature is 60° Fahr., and the winter minimum about 18°. 



During the past four years forty-eight species and subspecies of 

 living reptiles have been sent to the Zoological Gardens by Mr. E. 

 Meyenberg, of Pecos, all of which were collected in the neighborhood, 

 with the exception of a few from the Davis Mountains, some fifty miles 

 southwest. Man}^ of these are little known and as I am aware of no 

 published list of similar extent from this region, they are here 

 enumerated. 



CHELONIA. 

 Cinostemum fiavescens (Agass.). 



Platythyra fiavescens Agass., Cont. Nat. Hist, of U. S., I, 430, PI. V, figs. 



12-15. 

 (?) Cinostemum fiavescens Coues, Wheeler Survey W. of 100th Mer.. p. 



590, PL XVII. 



Sufficient material is not available for full determination of the 

 mud-turtles of the ^lexican border, and identification of the present 

 species must l^e made upon slight clues, for no published description 

 of it exists beyond the mention of a few characters considered by 

 Agassiz to be generic. These appear to apply to four turtles received 

 in September, 1901, from Pecos. In addition, I have a similar one from 

 El Paso, collected by Messrs. Townsend and Barber, and there is a 

 sixth belonging to the Academy, collected at San Antonio, in 1903, by 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



In form and scutellation these turtles approach C. pcnnsylvanicum. 

 The El Paso specimen is 130 mm. in extreme length of shell and 97 in 

 greatest breadth, a size rarely, if ever, reached by the eastern species. 

 In adult males the shell is depressed on the dorsal line and shows traces 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



of a median keel, which does not appear in others, possibly female, of 

 less dimensions. The small San Antonio example shows it shghtly on 

 the posterior dechvity. The head is noticeabty narrow and flat; jaws 

 weak and beak feebly hooked. The feet are fully webbed and the fore- 

 claws large and strong. There is a patch of keeled tubercles above 

 the heel. 



The large El Paso specimen, which is male, is uniform greenish-ohve 

 on the carapace, each shield ha\dng a narrow black border on its hinder 

 margin, most marked on the costals. The plastron, which is concave 

 and deeply striated, is yellow deepening to dark brown on the gvilars 

 and anals and on the bridge. The head and neck are entirely ■without 

 markings, uniform dark gray above, whitish on the sides and beneath. 

 Jaws yellowish with dark bro^^■n cutting edges. Outer surface of 

 limbs dark gray -^dthout markings, lighter beneath. The largest 

 Pecos specimen is 120 mm. long and is similar, except that the back is 

 darker, the plastron decidedly green and less grooved. This is prob- 

 ably a female. The others are colored like the last, except one from 

 Pecos 110 mm. long, which has the carapace brownish-yellow, with 

 hardly a trace of green, and the dark margins to the shields hardly 

 visible. The edge and under side of the marginals is dull orange. 

 Plastron yellow, darker in front and behind. 



Compared with PL XVII in the Wheeler Survey, to which the name 

 C. flavcsceTis is attached, all my specimens have the shell narrower and 

 more regularly oval; the head and neck are noticeably flat and narrow, 

 and the pectoral shields are nearly triangular and form an exceedinglj^ 

 short suture as in pennsylvanicum, instead of the wide one sho\\Ti by 

 the plate. 



This species is nearly related to pennsylvanicum, but as far as 

 present material goes, is amply distinguished b}' its form of head and 

 by color characters. 



Its geographical limits remain to be established. All the specimens 

 I have seen are Texan. 



Chrysemys mobilensis (Holbr). 

 Chrysemys elegans (Wied.). 

 Terrapene ornata (Agass.). 



LAGERTILIA. 

 Crotaphytus collaris (Say;. 



Some of the Pecos specimens exhibit the double row of inter- 

 orbitals attributed to C. baileyi Stej.^ I have also a number of 



1 No. Am. Fauna, No. 3, p. 103, PI. XII, fig. 1. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



C. collar is from Seymour, Texas. In this series I find individuals with 

 a single row of interorbitals, and those with them partly divided, to 

 be each about two-fifths of the whole number, and those with a double 

 row about one-fifth. In association with these differences I do not find 

 any constant changes in the size of the supraoculars, in length of snout 

 or breadth of head. The last two proportions vary with age, old exam- 

 ples having much broader heads. These Seymour specimens are about 

 half-grown and were all collected together. 



The chief character of baileyi we thus find far outside of the region 

 assigned to it, in company with undoubted collaris and intermediates. 

 Two Crotaphytus in the Academy's collection, taken b}^ Rehn and 

 Viereck in 1902, at Dry Cailon, New ^lexico, and assigned by Mr. Stone^ 

 to C. c. baileyi are like the Pecos and Seymour examples with double 

 interorbitals. If these specimens are baileyi, it occurs promiscuously 

 among collaris; if they are not baileyi, then the chief character of that 

 species occurs as a meaningless variation in collaris, leaving the former 

 species to stand upon slight and indefinable differences which vary 

 with age. In either case, the foundations of baileyi are not strength- 

 ened by their appearance. 

 Crotaphytus wislizeni B. & G. 



Femoral pores in two specimens 18-22. Length of ? 324 mm. 

 (tail 208). This specimen in Jmie has on the sides vertical bands and 

 spots of vermilion, which extend on the upper surface of the fore and 

 hind limbs and the under side of the tail. The pale cross-bands have 

 entirely disappeared from the body, but are distinct on another speci- 

 men 305 mm. long. 

 Holbrookia maculata Girard. 



Five specimens belonging to the form considered by Cope to be 

 H. m. maculata. Femoral pores in most cases 11 or 13; maximum 13, 

 minimum 9. 

 Holbrookia texana (Trosch.). 



Femoral pores usually 14-15; maximum in nineteen specimens 16, 

 minimum 12; very inconspicuous in females. The hind leg may fall 

 short of the eye or reach to the end of the snout. A 6^ in June, doubt- 

 less in full breeding color, is very striking, there being much orange on 

 the shoulders, including the upper back, and on the forearms. The 

 hinder part of the back and sides and upper surface of the hind legs are 

 bright gi'een, becoming yellowish on the tail. The jet-black lateral 

 crescents are set in a patch of rich blue which does not meet its fellow 



- Proc. Acad, of Nat. Sci., 1903, p. .30. 

 35 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Allg.,. 



on the abdomen. Under side of thigh pale blue; back of upper arm 

 and front of forearm green. 



In this species the postinfralabials below the angle of the jaw are 

 usually in ])ut one or two rows, but occasionally, as in the male above 

 described, they are as numerous as in H. maculata. 

 Uta stansburiana B. & G. 



Femoral pores in eighteen specimens 13-18. Greatest length 150 

 mm. (tail 93). 

 Uta ornata B. & G. 



Femoral pores 12-16, usually about 13. Greatest length 130 mm. 

 (tail 78). 



The chief difference between U. ornata and U. symmetrica is said to 

 be^ that in the former the hind leg is usually shorter than the distance 

 from the collar to the vent, while in the last it is longer. In nineteen 

 U. ornata from Pecos and Seymour, I find that 3 cJ* and 1 9 have the 

 hind leg longer than the distance stated; 4 d^ and 1 9 have it equal; 

 and in 10 9 it is shorter. 

 Sceloporus spinosus clarkii B. & G. 



Four specimens received in May, 1901, from Pecos (now Nos. 15,743- 

 46 Academy collection) are referred to this subspecies. They have 

 the hinder large supraoculars in contact with the parietals and fronto- 

 parietals; the preauricular scales are broader than long; femoral pores 

 12-13; and an interrupted cervical collar. 



The distinction between this form and S. magister is of doubtful 

 validity, a specimen from Tucson, Arizona, now before me, which on 

 its preauricular scales would be assigned by Mr. Stejneger to the last 

 name, is less distinctly banded on the forearms than two of the Pecos 

 specimens. 

 Sceloporus torquatus poinsetti B. & G. 



Apparently very common. 

 Sceloporus consobrinus B. & G. 



A large numl^er of specimens are well distinguished from S. undu- 

 latus by color characters, as well as by the slight differences in scu- 

 tellation pointed out by Cope. 



Phrynosoma cornutum (Harl.^. 

 Phrynosoma modestum fiirard. 

 Cnemidophorus sexlineatus sexlineatus (L.). 



Two from Pecos do not differ materially from eastern examples ex- 

 cept in having coarser dorsal scales, but four others collected at Sey- 



Stejneger, No. Am. Fauna, No. 3. p. 107, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



mour, Baylor county, in northern-central Texas, have similarly coarse 

 scales, one has the collar-edge occupied by a row of granules, and in 

 another the large scales of the collar are most distinct in the centre. 

 The pale dorsal area shows a tendency to contract and take on the 

 form of a median stripe. All these differences being in the direction 

 of C. perplexus. These specimens are noticeable for their small num- 

 ber of femoral pores, which are in each 13-14; (2) 14-15; 15-16. The 

 usual range in sexlineatus being 15-19. 



Cnemidophoras sexlineatus perplexus B. & G. 



I have a number of specimens from Pecos. Compared with sex- 

 lineatus most of them have a slightly longer snout, causing the loreal 

 and sometimes the postnasal to be elongated. There are seven light 

 stripes, the additional one being median and of the same width as the 

 laterals. This replaces the light dorsal area of sexlineatus. Usually 

 the light stripe on the back of the thigh is absent, but it is well marked 

 in one young example 110 mm. long. The collar scales are less en- 

 larged and occupy a somewhat triangular space in the centre, and the 

 edge of the collar is usually formed by one or two rows of small granules, 

 although two of my specimens have large scales on the edge. The 

 gular tract of minute scales contrasts less strongly with those surromid- 

 ing it, and the dorsal scales are coarser. According to Cope the femoral 

 pores are 19, but in ten which I have examined they are 13-18, averag- 

 ing 15. The hind leg may reach the axilla or the eye, but in most cases 

 about touches the ear. One of my specimens has the anterior supra- 

 orbital separated from the next one by small granules. The largest 

 is 222 mm. long (tail 158). The proportions are slender. 



Prof. Cope regards this form as a subspecies of tessellatus, with which 

 in general its scutellation agrees, though I find the number of femoral 

 pores to be much less ; but it does not appear to take on the spotted 

 pattern of that species, and the fact that both sexlineatus and perplexus 

 are striped at all ages and are more nearly equal in size and proportions, 

 in connection with their disposition to intergrade where they come 

 together in Texas, seems to indicate that they should be placed to- 

 gether as subspecies. In both of them a few of the postantebrachials 

 are sometimes a little enlarged, but in no case that I have seen do they 

 even approach the large scuta characteristic of C. gularis. 



Cnemidophorus grahami B. & G. 



This species is almost identical with C. s. sexlineatus in scale charac- 

 ters. The one specimen in the present collection has 21 femoral pores, 

 which agrees with the number given by Cope. It has a freno-orbital 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



on one side. At present this rather rare form seems to be amply sepa- 

 rated by color characters. 

 Cnemidophorus tessellatus (Say). 



Two specimens of the color form noted by Cope as C. t. tessellatus 

 were received in May, 1903. The largest measures 268 mm. (tail 178). 

 They correspond closely with Cope's description, but one has the 

 femoral pores 24, and the other 25, as against the maximum of 21 given 

 by him. The brachials are in from four to seven rows. Both have 

 round dark spots under the jaws, and in one the belly is tinged ■v\dth 

 orange. The hind leg reaches the eye or a little less. 



A large series in the Academy's collection, secured by Messrs. Rehn 

 and Viereck at Alamogordo, New Mexico, in 1902, shows no important 

 variations from the Pecos specimens. Femoral pores 22-25, average 

 of fifteen 23. 

 Cnemidopliorus gularis B. &. G. 



Five examples from the Da\ds Mountains, south of Pecos, the largest 

 of which measures 240 mm. (tail 142), have femoral pores 15-17; 

 brachials in 4-5 rows; antebrachials 3-4; femorals 6; tibials 3. The 

 hind limb is short, reaching only to the shoulder. There is a row Of 

 white spots in each dark stripe, but these do not merge into the light 

 interspaces. There is a light dorsal area resembling but narrower 

 than that of C. s. sexlineatus. Some examples in juvenile pattern 

 much resemble that species in this respect, while in others the light area 

 is represented by two narrow lines corresponding to its outer borders, 

 but gularis may always be distinguished by the large scales vmder the 

 forearm. Cope gives the femoral pores as 18-22, whereas, in a con- 

 siderable series from Texas and New Mexico, I find but one with the 

 number as great as Cope's minimum. They range from 15-18, ^vith an 

 average of 16. 



While sexlineatus and gularis have doubtless had a common origin, 

 the differentiation reached in adults is great, and I cannot regard the 

 occasional retention of the earlier style of color marking by the young 

 of gularis as true intergradation. 

 Eumeces obsoletus B. & G. 



Three have been received from Pecos. I have also two from Sey- 

 mour. 



OPHIDIA. 



Glauconia dulcis (B. &G.). 

 Eutaenia proxima B. & G. 



One specimen from Pecos measured 1,160 nmi. (tail 280). This is 

 the largest I have met with. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



Eutaenia sirtalis parietalis (Say). 

 Eutaenia marciana B. & G. 

 Eutaenia eques iReuss). 



Nineteen specimens, all from the Davis Momitains. The dorsal 

 stripe is yellow, often more or less orange; the laterals pale greenish. 

 Ventrals 151-174; subcaudals 64-86. Occasionally there are nine 

 upper labials. One of these specimens 700 mm. long has a very short 

 tail, only .17 of the length. 



Tropidonotus clarkii (B. & G.). 

 Tropidonotus rhombifer Hallow. 

 Tropidonotus sipedon transversus Hallow. 



All the specimens received were light in color, with the markings so 

 obscure as to be distinct only in the young. 



Salvadora grahami B. & G. 



Zamenis flagellum flagellum (Shaw). 



Most of this form from Pecos have been of large size and pale color. 

 Some show more or less of the narrow cross-bands, as in Z. f. frenatv^; 

 some have wide cross-bands, as are seen at times in Z. t. ornatus. 



Two large ones, about 1,700 mm. long, were buff on the back, with 

 distinct wide dark cross-bands. Top of head and ventrals pink, with 

 darker red spots on the throat. 



Zamenis taeniatus ornatus (B. & G.). 

 Coluber emoryi (B. & G.). 

 Coluber obsoletus lindheimeri (B. & G.). 

 Coluber subocularis a. Brown. 



Eight specimens of this species have been collected, as far as is known. 

 In addition to the four on which the original description was based, two 

 more w^ere received at the Zoological Gardens in 1902, and the New 

 York Zoological Society has also received two, one of which was courte- 

 ously sent me after death by Mr. R. L. Ditmars. The three now in 

 my possession have the scales in 33 rows, and the upper labials 10-11. 

 All seem to have come from the Davis Mountains. 

 PityopMs catenifer sayi (Schl.). 



Very common and reaches a large size; the largest measured 2,085 

 mm. in length, with a circumference of 210 mm. 



Arizona elegans Kenn. 



All the specimens are noticeably reddish or pink on the dorsal line, 

 between the spots. 



I have also received this species from Seymour, Texas, collected by 

 Mr. F. M. Dcavcr. 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [Aug., 



Contia episcopa episcopa (Kenn.)- 



One received in April, 1902, has the loreal absent, the nasal reaches 

 the preocular on one side, and the] prefrontal reaches the second 

 labial on the other. 



DiadopMs amabilis B. & G. 



One from the Davis Mountains, 530 mm. long, is hght ash on the 

 body including the outer row of scales; belly yellowish-sahnon, be- 

 coming blood-red imder the tail, the ventrals heavily spotted \vith 

 black. No nuchal collar. 



Ophibolus getulus sayi (Holbr.). 



Most of those received from Pecos are of the color pattern called 

 0. splendidus B. and G., ^\ath unspotted tracts on the back. I have 

 elsewhere* given reasons for refusing to recognize this color-form even 

 as a subspecies. In the latest note which I have seen, supporting its 

 distinctness,^ the author says: ''It is true that western examples of 

 what is usually called ' Ophibolus sayi' especially those from Arkansas 

 and Indian Territory, approach the color pattern of L. splendida; but 

 in the first place it is only an 'approach,' and in the second place 

 they retain the normal number of 21 scale rows characteristic of 

 the form which we have just named L. holbrooki" ( = 0. g. sayi). 

 Prof. Cope also says:' "I have not foimd any variation in the different 

 scale formulas of the two." The only comment to be made is that 

 these gentlemen can not have counted the scale rows in any large num- 

 ber of specimens. I have before me at this moment five living exam- 

 ples from Pecos, showing more than an "approach" to the pattern of 

 splendidus, one at least even having the head unspotted except on 

 the snout; three of these have 23 rows, and two have 21. The 

 case seems analogous to that of Crotaphytus baileyi, already discussed, 

 and does not strengthen the evidence for splendidus, unless selected 

 individuals with 21 rows and usually spotted heads are to be called 

 0. g. sayi, and those with 23 rows and usually unspotted heads are 0. 

 splendidus, even when they occur side by side — which would not com- 

 mend itself as a conception of specific difference. 



Ophibolus alternus A. Brown. 

 The type, from the Davis Mountains, is the only one known. 



*Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 1901, p. 76 



* L. Stejneger, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,Yo\. 25, p. 152 (1903). 



^ Report U. S. Nat. Mus., 1898, p. 919. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



Rhinochilus lecontii B. & G. 

 Heterodon nasicus B. & G. 

 Tantilla nigriceps Kenn. 



The one specimen'received had the ventral surface pinkish-sahnon 

 color in life. 

 Elaps fulvius (L.). 



One specimen received. 

 Ancistrodon oontortrix (L.)- 



One specimen received. 



Crotalus atroz atrox B. & G. 

 Crotalus confluentus Say. 



The Faunal Relations of Texas Reptiles. 



An attempt to determine the elements composing the local fauna 

 above noticed, has led to a study of the reptiles of the entire State of 

 Texas, the result of which is, in my belief, to establish three facts, 

 hitherto not wholly free from uncertainty: first, that the boundary 

 between the Austroriparian and Sonoran reptilian faunas lies approxi- 

 mately between the ninety-sixth and the ninety-eighth meridians of 

 longitude in Texas; second, that the restricted Texan district of Cope 

 is not Austroriparian but Sonoran; third, that transcontinental zones 

 of distribution can not be maintained in the Medicolumbian region for 

 reptiles. 



In his final essay upon the life regions of North America, determined 

 mainly by a study of reptiles and batrachians, Prof. Cope^ placed the 

 portion of Texas extending from the high lands east of the Pecos river 

 to a north and south line about the longitude of Austin, in his Texan 

 district of the Austroriparian subregion, and the portion east of it, in 

 the Louisianian district. Western Texas he attached to his Chihuahuan 

 district of the Sonoran subregion, which included the higher portion of 

 central and northern ^lexico, and stretched west through southern 

 New Mexico and Arizona to southern and Lower California. The 

 great plains from northern Texas, east of the Rocky ^lountains, ex- 

 cepting the east and west river bottoms, he called the Central district 

 of the Sonoran. 



Dr. C. Hart Merriam,^ basing his conclusions chiefly upon the distri- 

 bution of plants and mammals, established more or less parallel zones 

 stretching completely across the continent from the Atlantic to the 

 Pacific, the greater part of temperate North America being occupied 



'Rep. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1898, pp. 1199-1234. 



^Proc. Bio. Sac. of Wash., 1892, Vol. VII; and Nat. Geog. Mag., 1894. 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Aug., 



by the Upper and Lower Austral, each divided into a Humid district 

 beginning at the Atlantic coast and merging insensibly into an Arid on 

 the plains west of the Mississippi. The boundaries of his humid or 

 Austroriparian division of the Lower Austral agree in the main with 

 Cope's Austroriparian subregion, and the arid division, which he termed 

 the Lower Sonoran, with Cope's Chihuahuan. 



In Cope's view^ the distribution of reptiles does not accord with the 

 arrangement proposed by Merriam, for the reason that both in the 

 east and the west, relationships in this class are much closer from 

 south to north, than horizontally. 



In the following examination, the term Austroriparian is used to 

 denote the subregion so named by Cope, minus his Texan district. 

 For present purposes I include in it his Floridan subregion. Sonoran 

 is also used in Cope's sense. 



I am able to find reliable records of the occurrence of one hundred and 

 sixteen^" species and subspecies of reptiles within the State of Texas, and 

 by plotting all the localities of their collection known to me, upon a 

 map, they arrange themselves into the following categories: 



I. — Sonoran species, which appear to range little, if at all, east of 

 longitude 96° in Texas : 

 A. — Chihuahuan :^^ 



Cinosternum flavescens Sceloporus variabilis 

 Testudo berlandieri scalaris 



Chrysemys ornata Phrynosoma cornutum C. 

 CTotaphytus collaris C.B. modestum 



wislizeni B. Eublepharis variegatus 



Holbrookia texana Heloderma suspectum 



maculata C. Cnemidophorus tessellatus B.P. 

 Uta stansburiana B. perplexus 



ornata gulan's 



Sceloporus torquatus poinsetti Gerrhonotus liocephalus 



yarrov i Barissia imbricata 



ornatu s Eumeces guttulatus 

 spinosus clarkii obsoletus C. 



consobrinusC Anniella texana 



couchi^^ Glauconia dulcis 



9 i. c . p. 1205. 



'" ^^ Macrochelys lacertina, Chelydra serpentina and Eutcenia radix doubtless enter 

 Texas, but I have no exact localities, and they are omitted here. 



" The letters C. E. B. P. indicate that the species also enters the districts 

 known respectively- as Central, Eastern, Basin and Pacific. 



" Taken at Devil's river, Tex., in 1903, by Prof. H. A. Pilsbry. 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



553 



Diadophis regalis C. 



Zamenis tamiatus tccniatus B.P. 



tceniatus ornatus 

 Salvador a grahami 

 Coluber emoryi C. 



hairdi 



subocularis 

 Arizona elegans 

 Rhinochilus lecontii 

 Ophibolus doliatus annulatus 



B. — Central : 



Terrapene ornata 

 Eumeces multivirgatus 

 Heterodon nasicus 

 Zamenis constrictor flaviven- 



tris B.P. 

 Pityophis catenifer sayi 



C. — Texan (restricted) : 

 Aspidonectes emoryi 

 Crotaphytus reticulatus 

 Holbrookia propinqua 

 Lysopticus lateralis 

 Scelopor'us thayeri 

 Cnemidophorus grahami 



Ophibolus alternus 

 Contia episcopa isozona 

 Hypsiglena ochrorhyncha^^ 

 Tropidonotus sipedon transversus C. 

 Eutcenia marciana 



eques 

 Tantilla nigriceps C. 

 Crotalus molossus 



atrox atrox 



lepidu^ 



Ophibolus calligaster wE. 

 Tropidocloniuni lineatum wE. 

 Eutcenia sirtalis parietalis B.P. 

 Sistrurus catenatus consors^'^ 

 Crotalus confluentus 



Eumeces pachyurus 



tetragrammus 

 brevilineatus 



Coluber obsoletus lindheimeri 



Contia episcopa episcopa 

 taylori 



Amphiardis inornatus 



II. — Chihuahiian and Central species, which extend east of longitude 

 96° (wA. or wE. indicates that the species barely enters the 

 western part of the region) : 



Chrysemys elegans wA. Ophibolus getulus sayi wA. wE. 



Sceloporus spinosus spinosus^^ EutcB?iia proximo wA. wE. 



Diadophis amabilis wA. Tantilla gracilis wA, 



Tropidonotus clarkii 



III. — Austroriparian species, which enter Texas but do not appear to 

 extend west of longitude 98° (E. are also Eastern) : 

 Alligator mississippiensis Tropidonotus sipedon fasciatus 



Aspidonectes ferox grahami 



'^ Received at the Zoological Gardens in 1903 from Sej-mour, Tex. 

 ^* ^Crotalophonis edwardsi B. and G. 

 '•^ ^r.Sceloporus ftoridanus B. and G. 




554 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Aromochelys carinatns Storeria delcayi E. 

 Terrapene Carolina Carolina E. occipitomaculata E. 



Carolina triiinguis Haldea striatula E. 



Testudo polyphemus Spilotes corais couperi 



Anolis principalis Heterodon platyrhinus E. 



Sceloporus undulatus E. Ophibolus doliatus doliatus E. 

 Liolepisma laterale E. doliatus coccineus 



Ophisaurus ventralis Virginia elegans 



Eumeces quinquelineatus Sistrurus miliarius 



EvicBnia sirtalis sirtalis E. Crotalus harridus E. 



Of the above, Aromochelys carinatns, Tropidonotus grahami and 

 Virginia elegans are not known east of the Louisianian district. 



IV. — Austroriparian species, which extend west of longitude 98° in 

 Texas : 

 Chrysemys mohiliensis Ancistrodon piscivorus 



Zamenis flagellujn flagellum Flaps fulvius 

 Tropidonotus rhomb if er 



To these are to be added Cnemidophorus sexlinecdus, Cyclophis 

 CBstivus, Liopeltis vernalis and Ancistrodon contortrix, which are also 

 Eastern and to some extent Central. 



V. — Neotropical intrusions : 



Drymohius margaritiferus Siboti septentrionale 

 Erythrolamprus imperialis 



It is seen that seventy-three Sonoran species practically fail to range 

 east of longitude 96° in Texas, while but seven pass eastward to any 

 distance beyond that meridian. Hve of these entering the western part 

 only of the Austroriparian, while the two others are exceedingly 

 rare east of the Mississippi river. 



Of species w^hich belong to the Austroriparian and Eastern, tw^enty- 

 four which enter Texas do not extend much beyond longitude 98°, 

 while but nine pass beyond it into western Texas, and of these three 

 are of aquatic habits and fom* more are widely ranging forms. 



If anything is made clear, therefore, by a study of these lists, it is 

 that the zone of change between the eastern and the western faunas is 

 this north and south belt lying approximately between the 96th and 

 98th meridians. This area nearly coincides with that in which the 

 heavy rainfall of the Gulf Coast drops to below thirty inches annually, 

 and hes somewhat eastward of where the arid region may properly be 

 said to begin, the line of twenty inches rainfall being just west of the 




1903.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHL'V. 555 



100th meridian — a fact which suggests that species belonging to the 

 dry plains fauna may endure a small addition of moisture better than 

 those from a moist region can withstand drought. In a general way 

 it is also the region where elevations of less than 1,000 feet begin the 

 rise which reaches to between 3,000 and 5,000 on the plateau border- 

 ing the Pecos river. Its western boundary is probably the beginning 

 of what Cope terms "the first plateau." 



The geographical limits of Cope's Texan district are nowhere clearly 

 marked out by him, and his views as to its affinities were subject to 

 change. In 1875^^ he says the Sonoran "occupies the lower valle}'- 

 of the Rio Grande, and extends into Texas as far as the desert east of 

 the Pecos." East of this lay his Texan district, without defined limits 

 on the east and south, which he assigns to the Austroriparian subregion. 

 In 1880" he speaks of the Texan district as Sonoran, and appears to 

 consider it as beginning on the west at about 3,000 feet elevation, its 

 eastern boimdary running north and south near longitude 98° to 

 within twenty miles of San Antonio, from whence it stretched west to 

 the Rio Grande. In 1896^^ he returned without comment to his 

 earlier opinion and put the Texan district back in the Austroriparian. 



It may be possible at present to reach a definite opinion as to its 

 proper association. 



If the Texan district be regarded as beginning at the debatable zone 

 which has been indicated here, between 98° and 96° longitude, and 

 extending south to the Rio Grande and west to the Pecos river, it 

 is foimd that the elements composing its reptilian fauna are the 

 following : 



Sonoran: Chihuahuan 39 



Central 8 



— 47 



Texan (restricted) 13 



Austroriparian 5 



Of wide range 4 



69 



As far as is now known several of its peculiar species, as Holbrookia 

 propinqiia and Sceloporus thayeri, range slightly to the south and west, 

 outside of the boundaries here assigned to it, and may ultimately have 

 to be regarded as Chihuahuan, but in the main they appear to be con- 

 fined to these limits. A guide to its western boundary may be found 



16 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 1, p. 68. 



" Bull. U. S. Nat Mus., No. 17, p. 46. 



** American Naturalist, November and December, 1896. 




556. PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



in the absence of the Chihuahuan species Crotaphytus wislizeni, Uta 

 stanshuriana , Sceloporus spinosus clarkii, Cnemidophorus perplexus 

 and Crotaliis molossus, none of which seem to range east of the Pecos. 



This large number of pecuHar species quite justifies the setting 

 aside of a Texan district, but the overwhelming proportion of its 

 Sonoran forms relegates it to that subregion, and not to the Austro- 

 riparian, with which it was finally associated by Cope. 



The boundary thus determined between the Austroriparian and 

 Sonoran subregions corresponds closely to that given by jVIerriam^® 

 to his Humid and Arid di\'isions of the Lower Austral, and it remains 

 only to inquire into the reciprocal relations of the reptiles inhabiting 

 these areas. 



The Chihuahuan and Texan districts together share twenty-three 

 species with the Central, while of the sixteen which they have in com- 

 mon with the Austroriparian, five {Chrysemys elegans, Diadophis 

 amabilis, Ophibolus gctulus sayi, Eutcenia proxima and Tantilla gracilis) 

 are also Central and only enter the western part of the Austroriparian. 

 Four more {Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, Cyclophis cestivus, LiopeUis 

 vernalis and Ancistrodon contortrix) are both Central and Eastern. 

 But seven species are therefore left common to and restricted to the 

 Sonoran and Austroriparian {Chrysemys mohilensis, Sceloporus spi- 

 nosus spinosus, Tropidonotus clarkii, Tropidonotus rhombifer, Zamenis 

 flagellum flagellum. Flaps fulvius and Ancistrodon piscivorus) , and of 

 these, four being aquatic are rendered in some degree independent 

 of the laws governing the migration of land forms. So far as their 

 species are concerned these two subregions have very little in common. 



Turning now to the genera recorded from Texas, twenty-five, found 

 in both subregions, are of such wide range in the Medicolumbian that 

 they are without bearing on the present question and may be left out 

 of consideration. 



Tlie following Sonoran genera do not enter the Austroriparian : 



Crotaphytus C.B. Barissia 



Holbrookia C. Anniella 



Uta B. Glaucoma 



Lysopticus Salvador a 



Phrynosoma C.B. Arizona 



Eublepharis Rhinochilus C. 



Heloderma Contia 



Gerrhonotus Hypsiglena C 



Amphiardis 

 ^^Proc. Biol. Soc. of ^]'ash.. Vol VII, p. 28 and map. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



Of Austroriparian genera these do not range into the Sonoran •?° 



Alligator N. Farancia 



Anolis N. Rhadinia N. 



Ophisaurus Stilosoma 



Rhineura'N. Cemophora 



Spilotes N. Seminatrix 



Abastor Liodytes 



I do not know of a single truly Sonoran genus -which extends into 

 the Austroriparian which is not found in other subregions as well. 

 No strictly Austroriparian genus extends into the Chihuahuan, and 

 no genus is common to both areas which is not foimd elsewhere. So 

 far as genera are concerned, the only bond of unity between the two 

 halves of the Lower Austral ( = Austroriparian + Texan and Chihua- 

 huan of Cope) is that they alone in the Medicolumbian share Testudo, 

 Tantilla and Flaps, all of which are Neotropical. 



The Sonoran shares the following genera with the Central: Crota- 

 phytus, Holbrookia, Phrynosoma, Rhinochilus, Hypsiglena. 



It is clear, then, that the community in reptiles between the Sonoran 

 and the Austroriparian is much less than that between the Sonoran 

 and the Central; it is, in fact, limited to widely ranging genera. 



While it is not intended to go into the details of distribution through- 

 out North America, a few general observations must be stated, because 

 of their bearing upon the present question. 



The usual tests, such as differentiation, predominance in numbers, 

 and genetic relationship, used in determining centres of distribution, all 

 point among reptiles to the two southern centres in the Medicolumbian, 

 to which attention has been directed by Prof. C. C. Adams,^^ the loca- 

 tion of which corresponds to the southeastern Austroriparian and the 

 Chihuahuan. The former gave rise to nearly all the aquatic turtles. 

 It has supplied most of the widely ranging genera of snakes, some of 

 which, as Coluber, Zamenis and Tropidonoius, as well as Fmys among 

 turtles, are found also in the Eurasian portion of the Holarctic. Its 

 scarcity of lizards amounts to poverty. The reptiles of the Eastern 

 subregion are almost wholly derived from this southeastern centre; 

 no genus is peculiar to it, and but few species, especially east of the 

 Alleghenies. The differences between its eastern and western por- 

 tions are considerable, and in the Mississippi valley it shares a few 

 snakes with the Central, some of which are Texan and Chihuahuan. 

 Upon reptiles alone, the Eastern could hardly be maintained as -a 

 subregion apart from the Austroriparian and of equal rank. 



■^^ Those marked N. arc Neotropical. 

 ■" Biol. Bull., Vol. Ill, p. 121 (1902) 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



The Chihuahiian has given origin to no widely ranging snakes 

 except Crotalus and Sistrurus. Its great wealth of lizards has not 

 spread extensively into the Atlantic slope. Sceloporus and Cnemido- 

 phorus being represented there by but one species each; Eumeces by 

 one which reaches to Canada and perhaps two others more southern 

 and scarce in numbers; and the one species of Liolepisma, reaching to 

 New Jersey. 



That the Austroriparian fauna is the older of the two is made prob- 

 able by the geological age of the region, and certain by the character 

 of its forms, many of which belong to genera widely spread in the 

 Holarctic, others having obvious genetic relationship to these or to 

 other ancient forms. The separate identity of these two faunas, as 

 far back as they can be traced, confirms the conclusion already reached 

 from their present distribution, that the association of the Sonoran 

 with the Austroriparian into one transcontinental zone is unnatural 

 and cannot be maintained for reptiles. 



How far the stations occupied by reptiles conform to Dr. Merriam's 

 vertical zones, when the attempt is made to correlate these in widely 

 distant localities, can not now be determined. At a later time I hope 

 to examine this branch of the subject in some detail, but even with 

 the limited amount of information now available of the kind needed, 

 certain anomalies appear which do not seem open to explanation by 

 that theory. 



Indeed the proposition that all forms of life must conform to the 

 same areas of distribution accords with neither theory nor facts. It 

 may be, as stated by the distinguished author of transcontinental life 

 zones," and doubtless is, illogical to assume that a faunal and a floral 

 map must differ; but it is quite otherwise to assume as a working 

 hypothesis that they may do so, and when organisms differ as widely 

 in physiological adaptations as reptiles, for instance, do from mam- 

 mals, the assumption that their reactions to the same conditions of 

 environment must be similar, certainly is not far from likeness to a 

 well-known logical fallacy. 



While there can be no doubt of the controlling influence of tempera- 

 ture upon the distribution of reptiles as a class, it is quite certain that 

 moisture plays a more important p?irt in regulating the range of its 

 genera and species than is the case with either mammals or birds, 

 especially when their limited powers of migration are considered. 



The details of their distribution in the southern divisions of the 

 Medicolumbian sufficiently show its potency. 



^'■^ No. Am. Fauna, No. 3, p. 27. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



bees of the genus nomada from california. 



bv t. d. a. cockerell. 

 Table of Species. 



Males. 



Legs black and j'ellow; abdomen yello\v-banded 1. 



Legs red or reddish, or black and red; apex of al^domen iisuall}^ emar- 

 ginate, 7. 



1. Apex of abdomen emarginate, 2. 



Apex of abdomen entire ; large species 4. 



2. Size large, over 11 mm. long, cxcurrens, Ckll. 



Size smaller, hardly or under 9 mm 3. 



3. Lateral face-marks narrow, gradiialh' tapering to a point; a yellow 



spot at top of eye, decempunctata,Ck\\. 



Lateral face-marks ending abruptly at level of antennae ; no yellow 

 spot at top of eye, sanctcecrucis, Ckll. 



Lateral face-marks obliquely cut off above, with a projection point- 

 ing toward antennae, subsimilis, Ckll. 



4. Scutellum black ; anterior femora expanded into a large flat lamina, 



hesperia, Ckll. 

 Scutellum largely yellow; anterior femora ordinary, ... 5. 



5. Lateral face-marks obliquely truncate above; a large black area 



between them and supraclypeal mark, . . edwardsii, Cresson. 



Lateral face-marks semilunar ; a narrower black area between them 



and supraclypeal mark, 6. 



6. Smaller, hind femora entireh' black behind, 



edwardsii australior, Ckll. 

 Larger, hind femora yellow at apex behind, . . hemphilli, Ckll. 



7. Tegulse yellow; scutellum largely yellow; scape swollen, yellow in 



front; joint 3 much shorter than 4, . . . .pascoensis, Ckll. 



Tegulse not or hardly yellow (dull yellow in coquilletti) ; scutellum 



usually black, 8. 



8. Abdomen red or reddish, with lateral yellow spots, but no bands; 



apex emarginate ; scutellum black ; mandibles simple, . . 9. 

 Abdomen more or less banded, 11. 



9. Larger; first abdominal segment l)lack only at extreme base; abdo- 



men bright red, subvicinalis, Ckll. 



Smaller; more than basal half of first abdominal segment black; 



abdomen dull colored 10. 



10. Second submarginal cell nearly square, third narrowed almost to a 



point, hifurcata, Ckll. 



Second submarginal cell high and narrcnv, third about as broad 



above as .second oregomca, Ckll. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



11. Larger; second submarginal cell very broad below, and narrowed 



almost to a point above, so that the lower inner angle is very 



acute; tegulae dull yellow, coquilletti, Ckll. 



Smaller; second submarginal cell ordinary; basal nervure meeting 

 trans verso-medial, or slightly basad of it, 12. 



12. First abdominal segment dark brown above, with a few light dots; 



apex entire; scape entirely dark, subgracilis,Ckl\. 



First abdominal segment with a distinct light (yellow or reddish) 

 band, 13. 



13. Abdominal bands (except first) continuously light yellow; scape 



yellow in front ; apex of abdomen emarginate, suhangusta, Ckll. 

 Abdominal bands ferruginous centrally on middle segments, yellow 

 laterally; scape yellow in front, 



rhodosoma, Ckll. (and other males?). 



[Females.] 



Large species with yellow-banded abdomen, and bright ferruginous 



hair on thorax, rhodotricha, Ckll. 



Not so colored, and usually much smaller, 1. 



1. Abdomen black, with continuous light bands on the first two seg- 



ments at least, or the black reduced to bands ; a light spot before 



each upper corner of scutellum, 2. 



Abdomen red, without entire bands on first two segments, if any, 4. 



2. Mesothorax partly red ; scutellum red ; abdominal bands white, 



crotchii nigrior, Ckll. 

 Mesothorax black, 3. 



3. Larger; metathorax with large light patches, . . a-s/immf/i, Ckll. 

 Smaller; metathorax without light patches, . jormida, Viereck. 



4. Scutellum black, size small, 5. 



Scutellum red, size mostly larger, 6. 



5. Basal nervure ending a little before trans verso-medial, almost join- 



ing it ; size a little larger ; abdomen with interrupted yellowish- 

 white bands, those on segments 3 and 4 deeply notched in front, 



marginella, Ckll. 

 Basal nervure ending a little beyond transverso-medial ; abdomen 

 red without light bands, except two whitish spots or a band on 

 fifth segment; apical part of abdomen suffused with black, 



eleganhda, Ckll. 

 G. Abdomen with large yellowish-white markings, pointed mesad on 

 segments 1 to 3, forming entire l^ands on 4 and 5, 



dovidsoni, Ckll. 

 Abdomen without such markings ; basal nervure ending basad of 



transverso-medial, or rarely joining it, 7. 



7. Base of first abdominal segment black right across ; abdomen with 

 a purplish luster; segments 2 to 5 with lateral cream-colored 



spots, angelanwi, Ckll. 



Base of first abdominal segment not black right across, or without 

 black, 8. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



8. First abdominal segment with a large black triangular mark in the 



middle ; abdomen without light spots ; mandibles simple, 



tintinnahulum, Ckll. 

 First abdominal segment not so marked 9. 



9. Face and front without black; at most a faint blackish stain above 



the antennae, 10. 



Front with a great deal of black ; mesothorax with a median black 

 band, 14. 



10. Third antennal joint hardly half length of fourth: anterior coxae 



simple, . erythrcea, D. T. 



Third antennal joint over half length of fourth, 11. 



11. Abdomen with small lateral cream-colored spots; second and third 



submarginal cells much narrowed above, . . ultimella, Ckll. 



Abdomen without such spots; second submarginal cell broader 



above, 12. 



12. Length about 10 mm. ; hind femora with a black stripe behind, 



rubrica, Pro v. 

 Length 8 mm. or less; hind femora with at most a black suffu- 

 sion, 13. 



13. Scape with conspicuous long dark hairs ; mesothorax with a median 



black stripe, . . . ' californice, Ckll. 



Scape without such hairs; mesothorax without a median black 

 stripe, rhodosoma, Ckll. 



14. Length at least 10 mm.; metathorax black with two red spots; 



hind femora with no black stripe behind, . . excellens, Ckll. 



Length 8 to nearly 9 mm. ; metathorax, seen from above, red with 



a median black band, 15. 



15. Hind femora with much black behind; scape with dark hairs; a 



red spot in front of middle ocellus, latifrons, Ckll. 



Hind femora red behind; scape without dark hairs; no red spot 

 in front of middle ocellus, atrofrontata , Ckll. 



Descriptions and Notes. 



Nomada (Holonomada) hempMUi, sp. n. 



cJ^. — Length 12-13 mm.; black and yellow. Allied to iV. superba 

 and N. edwardsii, resembling the latter by the black and yellow (instead 

 of red and yellow) legs, and the former by the absence of yellow spots 

 on the metathorax. It differs from A'', edwardsii also as follows: 

 Lateral face-marks broader above, with much black between them and 

 the supraclypeal mark ; flagellum paler beneath ; yellow patch on scu- 

 tellum large and entire (in edwardsii divided into two spots or patches) ; 

 abdomen with less black above, the bands on second and third seg- 

 ments not or hardly contracted in the middle; a minute yellow spot 

 present at summits of eyes ; legs with a more orange-yellow color, and 

 with less black, the anterior and middle femora yellow with a black 

 patch above, hind femora black above except apically, anterior and 

 36 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



middle tibia wholly 5'ellow, posterior tibiae yellow with a small black 

 stripe behind, all the tarsi yellow. The second and third submarginal 

 cells are considerably contracted above, and the basal nervure ends 

 only slightly basad of the transverso-medial. The postsciitellum has 

 a short yellow stripe. 



Hab.— Three males labelled 'SSo. Cal." (Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil.). 

 Named after ^Ir. Hemphill, the well-known naturalist of San Diego, Cal. 



Nomada (Holonomada^ excurrens, sp. n. 



d'.- — Length about 12 mm. ; black and yellow. Similar to A^. hemp- 

 hilli, except that the apical plate of the abdomen is broader and 

 strongly notched (in hemphilli it is quite entire), and the transverso- 

 medial nervure is strongly oblique (only slightly so in hemphilli). The 

 hind tibiae are entirely yellow, without the black stripe seen in hemp- 

 hilli. 



Hab.— "So. Cal.," one (Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.). This is so 

 close to A^. hemphilli that it may prove to be only a variety; yet it has 

 characters which would exclude it from Holonomada, as that group is 

 defined by Robertson. 

 Nomada (Holonomada) edwardsii, Cresson. 



Hah. — Santa Clara county, Cal. (Coquillett). In Coll. U. S. Nat. 

 Museum. 

 Nomada (Holonomada) edwardsii var. australior, v. nov. 



o'. — Length 11 mm.; black and yellow. Differs from edwardsii by 

 its smaller size; supraclypeal mark larger (broader than long); lateral 

 face-marks convex on the inner side and pointed above (concave on 

 inner side above clypeus, and obhquely truncate above, in edwardsii) ; 

 third antennal joint shorter, and paler beneath; ventral surface of 

 abdomen wholly yellow beyond the second segment. The apical plate 

 is entire, and the metathorax has a pair of yellow spots. From N. 

 citrina it differs thus : Posterior orbits only very narrowly yellow, and 

 that little more than half-way up ; no yellow spot below middle ocellus ; 

 flagellum black above, dull red beneath; third antennal joint a little 

 longer than fourth, the two together a little shorter than scape, etc. 

 The hind femora are practically all black behind, and all the tibiae have 

 much black behind. 



Hab. — Los Angeles county, Cal. (Coquillett). In Coll. U. S. Nat. 

 Museum. Perhaps a distinct species. 



Nomada (Holonomada) rliodotriclia, sp. n. 



Q . — Length about 13 mm., build of N. superba; black and red, 

 abdomen with broad chrome-yellow or orange bands. Head and 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



thorax very densely punctured, abundantly clothed with pale ferrugi- 

 nous hair; face broad; occiput and front (except a red patch below 

 middle ocellus) black; face up to level of antennae (except narrow edges 

 of supraclypeal mark and line half-way down edge of clypeus) red, the 

 red lateral face-marks continuing above very broadh^ until a point 

 about level with end of scape, where they are much narrowed and 

 notched, thence continuing over eyes, and suddenty broadening to 

 form a broad postorbital red band; antennse red, apical half of fla- 

 gellum dusky above; third joint conspicuously longer than fourth; 

 upper margin of prothorax, very narrow lateral margins of mesothorax, 

 scutellum. postscutellum, metathorax except narrow lateral margins 

 and basal enclosure connecting with a smaller apical triangle, tubercles , 

 tegulse and nearly all of pleura, all red; legs bright red; basal joint of 

 hind tarsi long and broad, and slightly dusky; wings reddish, nervures 

 dark brown, stigma ferruginous; third submarginal cell much con- 

 tracted above; basal nervure ending very slightly basad of transverso- 

 medial, the latter very sHghtly oblique; abdomen ornamented nearly 

 as in N. superba, but the yellow is orange, and the fifth segment is 

 without black; ventral surface orange with three black bands. 



Hab. — "So. Cal.," four in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. A very dis- 

 tinct and beautiful species. 

 Nomada (Holonomada) hesperia, sp. n. 



cJ'. — Length about 10 mm.; black and 3-ellow. Head and thorax 

 thickly clothed with white hair, very dull above, clear and shining 

 beneath, dense and silvery over clypeus; eyes pale green, converging 

 below; basal half of mandibles, labrum, clypeus and broad lateral 

 face-marks (irregularh- notched on inner margin above clypeus, and 

 ending abruptly at about level of antennse), all yellow; no supraclypeal 

 mark; scape thick but not swollen, yellow beneath and black above; 

 flagellum black above and dull reddish beneath (third antenna! joint 

 yellow beneath); joint 3 slightly longer than 4; thorax l)lack with a 

 yellow spot on tubercles, but no other yellow; tegulse lemon-yellow; 

 wings clear, nervures dull ferruginous; second and third submarginal 

 cells greatly contracted above; basal nervure ending some distance 

 basad of transverso-medial ; legs yelloAv in front, largely black behind . 

 especially the hind legs; first joint of anterior and middle tarsi all 

 yellow; anterior femora expanded beloic into a large yellow lamina, which 

 i : convex anteriorly; abdomen black with five continuous greenish- 

 yellow bands, that on second segment only moderately narrowed in 

 the middle; apical plate dark, entire; ventral surface yellow stained 

 with green, without nuich black except at base. 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Hab.—"So. Cal," two in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Very distinct 

 by the character of the anterior femora. Aside from this, the entirely 

 black pleura and absence of supraclypeal mark distinguish it from 

 N. rivalis, N. suda, N. vincta, etc. 



Nomada (Micronomada) formula, Viereck. ^ 



Hah. — San Pedro, Cal., July 11 (Cockerell). This has the second 

 submarginal cell as in Robertson's genus Cephen, but I cannot separate 

 the latter from Micronomada. N. flavipes, Prov. appears from the 

 description to be near to A^. formula, but not identical. 



Nomada (Xanthidium) crotchii var. nigrior, n. var. 



9 . — Length about 9 mm. ; the dark markings of abdomen black (not 

 ferruginous), sharply contrasting with the creamy- white bands; hind 

 margins of segments narrowly subhy aline and pale brown; metathorax 

 black without spots. Basal nervure meeting transverso-medial, or very 

 slightly basad of it. 



Hab.—"So. Cal.," five in Coll. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. 



Nomada (Xanthidium) pascoensis, sp. n. 



(5^ . — Length about 8 mm. ; yellow and black. Head and thorax very 

 densely punctured, hoary with white hair, which is dense on the face, 

 but not so as to hide the surface; basal part of mandibles, labrum, 

 clypeus (except a sutural spot) on each side, supraclypeal mark, lateral 

 face-marks and a flame-like mark beneath eyes, lemon-yellow; the 

 lateral face-marks fill in the whole space between the clypeus and the 

 eyes, but level with the supraclypeal mark suddenly narrow, and con- 

 tinue along the orbital margin as a rather broad band which ends 

 (slightly swollen) at the level of the antennae; thus the lateral face- 

 marks above present some resemblance in outline to the head of a 

 human femur ; eyes green ; scape much swollen, yellow in front and black 

 behind; flagellum reddish-orange, the basal joints largely black above, 

 apical joint long and pointed; third antennal joint triangular, about 

 half as long as fourth, joints beyond oblique, 5 to 7 or 8 with minute 

 denticles; flagellum crenulated; subtriangular patch on anterior part 

 of pleura, upper margin of prothorax, tubercles, tegulse, scutellum 

 except margin, a small spot before each anterior corner of scutellum, 

 and band on postscutellum, all lemon-yellow; metathorax all black; 

 wings moderately dusky, stigma ferruginous; basal nervure almost 

 meeting transverso-medial, a mere fraction basad of it; second sub- 

 marginal cell quadrate ; legs red ; basal part of first four femora beneath, 

 hind femora behind except apically, a suffused patch on hind tibiae 

 behind, and all the coxae, black; knees, anterior legs in front (more or 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



less), middle tibiaB at apex, first joint of middle tarsi in front, and hind 

 tibise at apex, yellow; abdomen closely and minutely punctured, lemon 

 yellow, the segments black at base and more or less ferruginous api- 

 cally; first segment with the basal half black, the apical half (except 

 the hind margin) ferruginous centrally, with a yellow patch on each 

 side; apical plate ferruginous, notched; venter black at base, other- 

 wise varied with yellow and red. 



Var. a. — Somewhat smaller; no light spots at anterior corners of 

 scutellum. 



Hob. — Pasco, Washington State, May 25, 1896 {Trevor Kincaid). 

 Var. a, Los Angeles county, Cal, (Coquillett) ; in U. S. Nat. Museum. 

 The front coxse exhibit a very small spine, showing some affinity to 

 Robertson's genus Centrias; but the insect is best referred to Xan- 

 thidiwn, near to ^V. luteoloides. 

 Nomada (Xanthidium) decempunctata, sp. n. 



(^ . — Length about 8 mm., rather slender, not very hairy (white hair 

 on face, cheeks and sides of thorax), black and yellow. Eyes pale 

 green; inner orbital margin presenting a double curve; mandibles 

 except tips, labrum, clypeus, supraclypeal mark, lateral face-marks 

 (rapidly narrowing from clypeus and ending in a sharp point on orbital 

 margin at about level of antennae), stripe at top of eyes, and stripe 

 beneath eyes extending half-way up cheeks, all yellow; scape swollen, 

 but not excessively so, yellow in front, black behind ; flagellum ordinary, 

 dull reddish beneath, black above, last joint obtuse; third antennal 

 joint conspicuously shorter than fourth ; mesothorax extremely densely 

 punctured, nearly bare of pubescence; upper border of prothorax, 

 tubercles, narrow marginal stripe at sides of mesothorax, elongate spot 

 between tegulse and scutellum, scutellum except margins, stripe on 

 postscutellum, two round spots sublaterally on metathoracic enclosure, 

 large subquadrate patches on metathorax, somewhat diamond-shaped 

 spot behind tubercles, very large patch extending across pleura, and 

 tegulse, all lemon-yellow; legs yellow; coxae black behind; hind femora 

 black behind except at apex; anterior and middle femora, and all the 

 tibiae, with a black stripe behind, that on hind tibise covering nearly the 

 whole surface, that on middle femora double (a broad and narrow stripe 

 running parallel); middle and hind tarsi mostly black behind; wings 

 fairl}^ clear, dusky at apex, nervures and stigma dark brown; stigma 

 large; second submarginal cell very narrow, higher than broad, receiv- 

 ing the first recurrent nervure at its middle ; first submarginal cell con- 

 siderably larger and longer than the other two combined ; third greatly 

 narrowed above; basal nervure ending well basad of the transverse- 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



medial; abdomen dull, not appreciabty pmictm'ed, but very minutely 

 roughened; apical margins of segments subhyaline broTsaiish, this 

 l)roader in the middle than at the sides; basal half of first segment 

 black, the other half (except the margin) yellow, but the black sends 

 a straight narrow band into the yellow in the middle line, extending 

 about three-fifths the breadth of the yellow; there is also a sublateral 

 small black spot on the j-ellow on each side near the hind margin, the 

 same being repeated also on segments 2 to 5, which are similarly orna- 

 mented with yellow, except that the black invades it more in the 

 middle line, the yellow on segments 2 to 4 being interrupted in the 

 middle line ; on segment 2 the black also sends a short tongue into the 

 yellow at the sides ; this description does not well indicate the compli- 

 cated pattern, but it may be added that if the abdomen is viewed with 

 the apex directed upward, the yellow on segments 2 to 4 has on each 

 side a recognizable resemblance to the head of a bird ; apical plate dark 

 brown, deeply bifid; venter j^ellow, first segment with longitudinal 

 black bands, third and foiu'th segments black at base; mesosternum 

 with a large yellow patch. 



Hob. — ''So. Cal.," one in Coll. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. A very dis- 

 tinct species. 

 Nomada (XantMdiumi sanctaecrucis, sp. n. 



cJ' . — Length about 8 mm. ; rather slender, black and yellow. Head 

 and thorax with little hair; facial quadrangle about square; mandibles 

 except apex, labrum, clypeus, suprach'peal mark, lateral face-marks 

 (rather broad, ending obtuseh' at level of antennae), and stripe under 

 eye extending about half-way up posterior orbits, all lemon-yellow; 

 the black between the supraclypeal and lateral marks is broad, and 

 sends a narrow tongue half-way down sides of cljqjeus; scape mod- 

 erately swollen, yellow in front, black behind; flagellmn long, ferru- 

 ginous beneath, blackish above, ordinary in structm-e; third antennal 

 joint about half length of fourth; mesothorax entirely black, coarsely 

 and very densely pimctured; upper border of prothorax, tubercles 

 (except black dot), tegulse, irregular (with a point directed upward and 

 a longer one posteriorly) transverse patch on pleura, and two large spots 

 on scutelhmi, deep yellow; postscutellum and metathorax entirely 

 black; legs yellow, coxae mostly black, femora black above except at 

 apex; the first four femora, seen from behind, are longitudinally di- 

 vided into black and yellow areas, but the hind femora are all black 

 behind except at apex ; anterior and middle tibiae stained with blackish 

 behind, hind tibiae very dark brown behind except narrow upper bor- 

 der; middle and hind tarsi largely suffused with brown; wings brown- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



ish. nervures dark brown, stigma ferruginous; second submarginal cell 

 moderately, third greatly, narrowed above ; transverso-medial nerviu-e 

 a little basad of basal ; abdomen banded vrith. black and yellow ; yellow 

 band on first segment constricted but not di\'ided in the middle ; bands 

 on second and third segments narrower in the middle than at the sides, 

 but not abruptly constricted like that on first; bands on fom'th and 

 fifth segments broad throughout, not narrowed in middle; sixth seg- 

 ment all yellow ; apical plate dark brown, notched ; venter yellow, with 

 the bases of the segments black; first ventral segment dark with a 

 yellow mark shaped something a sheep's skull. 



i7a&. ^Santa Cruz Mts., Cal. (U. S. Xat. Museum). 

 Nomada (Xanthidium) subsimilis, sp. n. (civilis, siibsp.?.i. 



&. — Length 8| mm., l^lack and yellow, head and thorax thickly 

 clothed mth long erect coarse hair, j^ellowish-white below, brown above ; 

 scape also hairy. Tegulse yellow; nervures and stigma ferruginous; 

 basal nervure a little basad of transverso-medial; metathorax and 

 scutellums entirely black ; basal area of metathorax wdth minute longi- 

 tudinal ridges ; tibiae yellow, each with a black spot behind, femora T\dth 

 a black stripe behind. In all respects very closely related to N. civilis-, 

 from Cresson's description of which it differs thus : Supraclypeal mark 

 well developed; flagellum mostly black above; anterior margin of 

 yellow band on first segment straight. These characters are not very 

 important ones, but I have A'", cwilis from Colorado, and am confident 

 that the Californian species is distinct, though it may prove that it 

 should rank only as a subspecies. The dark hair on the thorax of 

 subsimilis is a good distinguishing character. 



Hab. — Los Angeles county, Cal., February {Coquillett). In L'. S. 

 Nat. Museum. Two specimens. 

 Nomada (XantMdium) coquilletti, sp. u. 



6^. — Length about 9 mm., rather slender, black and 3'ellow, legs red 

 with some yellowish and black. Head and thorax with abundant 

 brownish-white hair, dense and silvery on middle of clypeus and supra- 

 clypeal area; eyes brownish-gray; facial quadrangle nearly square, a 

 Httle narrowed below; basal part of mandibles, labrum, clypeus, stripe 

 beneath eyes, and narrow lateral face-marks extending to level of 

 antennae, pale yellow; scape swollen, hairy, yellow in front and black 

 behind; flagellum ordinary, bright ferruginous, the three basal joints 

 black above; third antennal joint conspicuously shorter than fourth; 

 thorax dull and very densely punctured, a stripe on upper margin of 

 prothorax, tubercles, flame-like mark (very not large) on pleura, and 

 tegulse, dull yellow ; no yellow on metathorax or scutellums ; legs pale 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



red, kiiees and anterior femora in front pale yellow; anterior femora 

 with a black spot at base behind, the other femora largely black behind ; 

 wings tinged brownish, stigma dark red; second submarginal cell tri- 

 angular, very broad below, greatly narrowed above, third submarginal 

 cell narrowed about half above; basal nervure ending distinct!}^ 

 basad of transverso-medial ; abdomen with yellow bands ; bases of the 

 segments black, apical margins of the first four broadly ferruginous; 

 on the third and fourth segments laterally are obscurely indicated 

 lateral spots next to the ferruginous; yellow on first segment abruptly 

 cut in the middle by black, that on the second segment greatly nar- 

 rowed by a ferruginous backwardly projecting tongue; apical plate 

 slightly notched ; venter red (even to base) speckled with yellow, the 

 yellow forming a curious pattern on the third segment. 



Hab. — Santa Clara county, Cal. (Coquillett). In U. S. Nat. Museum. 

 It is a little uncertain whether this is a Xanthidium or a Nomada s. str. 

 It resembles .V. modocorum, Ckll., from Oregon, but is easily distin- 

 guished by its much narrower, more parallel-sided abdomen, and tlie 

 second submarginal cell as described. 

 Nomada (Xanthidium) ashmeadi, sp. n. 



9 . — Length 10 mm.; black and yellow, not very hairy. Eyes sage- 

 green; face a little broader than long; basal half of mandibles, labrum, 

 clypeus, supraclypeal mark (more than twice as broad as long), lateral 

 face-marks, wedge-shaped mark at top of eyes, and narrow posterior 

 orbits almost up to wedge-shaped mark, all deep yellow; lateral face- 

 marks very broad, their upper margin extending from upper lateral 

 corner of supraclypeal mark obliquely upward (touching antennal 

 socket) to a narrow trmication on the orbital margin about half-way 

 between level of antennae and top of eye ; a fine black hne passes down 

 side of supraclypeal mark and upper half of clypeus, ending in a black 

 circle looking like a minute ocellus; antennse stout; scape not swollen, 

 yellow suffused with red in front, black behind; flagellum deep red, 

 first segment with a black basal spot above, last blackish above; third 

 antennal joint about three-quarters length of fourth; thorax coarsely 

 and very densely punctured; upper border of prothorax, tubercles 

 (which are conical-protuberant), tegulse (except an orange-red spot), 

 almost whole pleura, spot before each anterior corner of scutellum, 

 two large patches on scutellum joined posteriorly, postscutellum, two 

 round spots on metathoracic enclosure, two large patches and lateral 

 spots on metathorax, all deep j'ellow; legs yellow; coxse mostly black 

 behind ; first four femora with a black stripe behind ; hind femora black 

 behind except narrow border and broad apex ; tibise striped with black 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



behind; basal joint of hind tarsi with a suffused black stripe behind; 

 small joints of tarsi more (jr less reddish; wings strongly yellowish- 

 smoky, nervures fuscous, stigma ferruginous; second submarginal cell 

 quadrate, receiving the recurrent nervure at its middle; basal nervure 

 meeting transverso-medial ; abdomen rather broad, yellow, minutely 

 roughened ; basal half of first segment (a little produced in middle line), 

 and broad bases of second and third segments, jet black; venter yellow, 

 second segment, and a reversed V on first, black. 



Hab.— Los Angeles county, Cal. (Coquillett). In U. S. Nat. Museum. 

 Named after the well-known hymenopterist of that institution. The 

 spots on the metathoracic enclosure suggest N. decempundata, but that 

 is smaller and has a different venation. 



Nomada (Phor) subgracilis, sp. n. 



C?. — Length about 5 mm.; head and thorax densely punctured, with 

 white hair; eyes gray; mandibles except tips, labrum, rather broad 

 anterior margin of clypeus, and triangular lateral face-marks (coming 

 to a very fine point somewhat below level of antennae), all pale yellow; 

 scape rather stout, dark reddish-brown, roughened, hairy; flagellum 

 pale ferruginous beneath, black or nearly so above, apical margins of 

 basal joints projecting above; third antennal joint about or slightly 

 over half length of fourth ; thorax black with a pallid spot on tubercles, 

 but no other light markings; tegulse dark red, punctured; legs dark 

 brown, the first four yellow in front; wdngs dusky at apex, stigma red- 

 dish; marginal cell long; second submarginal little narrowed above, 

 and receiving the recurrent nervure at its middle ; basal nervure end- 

 ing some distance basad of transverso-medial ; abdomen finely rugoso- 

 punctate, dark brown ; first segment with an oblique pallid stripe on 

 each side, and an obscure spot mesad of each ; second to fifth segments 

 with more or less interrupted bands, which are broadened and pale 

 yellow laterally, but narrow and become suffused with reddish toward 

 the middle ; on the third to fifth segments these bands are interrupted 

 sublaterally by large dark brown spots; sixth segment with a pale 

 yellow entire band failing laterally; apical plate large, entire, with a 

 distinct rim; venter brown. 



Hah. — "Cala.," one in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Mr. Viereck tells 

 me it was confused with N. gracilis (from which it differs in venation) 

 in the collection. 



The remaining species are referred to the restricted genus Nomada, 

 as understood by Robertson. I have not seen any species of Gnathins 

 from California. 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Nomada rubrica, Provancher. var. o. 



2 . — A black stripe connecting the ocelli ; hind femora with a black 

 stripe behind. Wings strongly yellowish-smoky, basal nervure meet- 

 ing trans verso-medial, but rather on the basad side. Third antennal 

 joint shorter than fourth. From .V. graiji, Ckll., it is easily known by 

 the venation, and absence of black on the cheeks. 



Hab. — Los Angeles county, Cal. (Coquillett). In U. S. Nat. Maseum. 



Nomada subangusta, sp. n. 



(^. — Length about 8 nmi.; black, ferruginoiLs and yellow; head and 

 thorax -v^dth rather copious hair, dull brownish above, white below. 

 Basal two-thirds of mandibles, labrum, clypeus, and lower corners of 

 face, sending a line ending very sharply about half-way up orbital 

 margin, all yellow; a narrow yellow stripe on lower third of posterior 

 orbits; scape yellow (suffused with red basally) in front and sides, 

 black behind; flagellum orange-ferruginous, more or less blackened 

 above, especially the basal half; third antennal joint conspicuously 

 shorter than fomlh; thorax densely punctured, black, tubercles palHd, 

 but no other pale markings; tegulse ferruginous, hair}' and punctm-ed; 

 legs ferruginous ; anterior femora suffused with yellowish in front, and 

 with a black stripe behind; middle femora black beneath except at 

 apex; hind femora black behind and beneath except at apex, but the 

 margins of the black suffused ; anterior and middle tibiae with a suffused 

 blackish spot; wings clear, dusky on apical margin, nervures fuscous, 

 stigma ferruginous ; second submarginal cell narrow, higher than long ; 

 basal nervm-e ending just basad of transverso-medial ; abdomen with 

 the basal half of first segment, and the bases of following segments 

 more or less (but edged with ferruginous) black ; apical margins of the 

 segments very broadly ferruginous; bands pale yellow, that on first 

 segment abruptly interrupted; that on second gradually narrowed to 

 middle but not quite interrupted ; apical plate rather long and narrow, 

 deeply notched ; shape of first segment long and narrow ; venter ferru- 

 ginous variegated with pale yellow. 



Hab. — "So. Cal.," one from the W. J. Fox collection (U. S. Nat. 

 Museum). Close to A", wodocorum, Ckll., with which it nearly agrees 

 in markings, color and pubescence; but it is a much narrower insect, 

 especially in the first abdominal segment, than modocorum. It differs 

 in the same manner from A'^. ruficornis, L. . which it also much resembles. 

 By the narrow first abdominal segment, and other characters, it resem- 

 bles N. cordleyi, Ckll., but the latter has a much longer flagellum, and 

 the abdomen is narrower in the middle. 




1903.] XAIUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



Nomada erythraea, Dalla Torre. 



9 . — Closely allied to A', ultima, CklL; mandibles and anterior coxae 

 simple; stigma orange-brown; mesothorax and metathorax red with- 

 out'markings ; second, third and fourth abdominal segments with suc- 

 cessively smaller pallid lateral spots, easily overlooked; basal joint of 

 hind tarsi with dark hair on inner side. The basal nervure ends just 

 basad of the trans verso-medial. 



Hab. — San Bernardino county. Cal.. May. One in U. S. Nat. 

 Museum. 



Nomada rhodosoma, sp. n. 



2 . — Length 7 mm. Almost exactly like N. erythrcea, but a little 

 smaller, and the third antennal joint almost or quite as long as the 

 fourth (in erythrcea it is not over half as long) . There is black between 

 the ocelli, and a black stain in the middle of the metathoracic enclosure. 

 Basal nervure ending scarcely basad of trans verso-medial. Stigma 

 ferruginous. Hind tibise strongly tuberculate on the outer edge, which 

 is not the case in erythrcea. 



Hah. — Santa Cruz Mts., Cal., two in U. S. Nat. Museum. Six males 

 (four from Santa Cruz Mts., two from "Cala.") are provisionally 

 assigned here; they may not all belong to one species. 



Nomada californiae, sp. n. 



Q . — Length about 7^ mm. ; also similar to erythrcea, but easily dis- 

 tinguished by the characters given in the table. The head is very 

 broad, and the upper parts of the head and thorax are conspicuously 

 clothed with dark hairs, while the hair on the sides and under parts is 

 white. Ocelli on a black patch; mesothorax with a blackish band; 

 metathorax with a l)lackish band, becoming faint anteriorly; post- 

 scutellum with a decided yellow tint; abdomen without black; an- 

 tennae entirely red; third joint almost as long as fourth; wings rather 

 dusky, not very dark at apex; stigma orange-ferruginous; basal nerv- 

 ure ending a short distance basad of transverso-medial ; legs red with 

 no black marks except on coxse; the hind femora have a very faint 

 blackish stripe behind. 



Hab. — "So. Cal.," one in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Among the 

 Oregon species this is related to N. astori, Ckll., and N. corvallisensis, 

 Ckll. From astori it is easily distinguished by the much shorter fourth 

 antennal joint and the absence of black marks at sides of first 

 abdominal segment. From corvallisensis it is known by its lighter^ 

 brighter color, the much smaller punctures of mesothorax, and the 

 hind femora not black behind. 




572 * PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [A-Ug.. 



Nomada ultimella, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about 6^ mm. ; another red species similar to X. ery- 

 thrcea, but distinguished by the characters given in the table. It is 

 also near to N. ultima, Ckll., but easily separated by its smaller size, 

 lighter color, with less black marking, and less prominent scutellum. 

 Lower corners of face yellow ; ocelli on a black patch ; thorax without 

 distinct bands, but the mesothorax and metathorax have barely indi- 

 cated blackish median bands; sides of first abdominal segment with 

 faint blackish stripes ; second and third segments with small lateral yel- 

 low spots ; stigma orange-fulvous ; second and third submarginal cells 

 both very greatly narrowed above; basal nervm-e ending a little basad 

 of transverso-medial ; third antenna! joint a little shorter than fourth. 



Hah. — "So. Cal," one in Coll. Acad. Xat. Sciences Phila. 

 Nomada latifrons, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about 9 mm. ; a red species similar to .V. erythrcea. 

 Head transversely oval, face very broad, especially above; ocelli on a 

 black patch which extends considerably laterad of them; a similar 

 transverse black patch on front, joining ocellar patch by two bands ; 

 cheeks black except the broadly red orbital margin; mesothorax and 

 metathorax each with a single black band; abdomen with a blackish 

 dorsal suffusion on segment 3, and a slight stain on 4 and 5, but no other 

 black, nor any j^ellow spots ; legs red, coxse largely black behind ; hind 

 femora with about half the posterior surface black; third antennal 

 joint a little shorter than fourth; wings strongly yellowish-smoky; 

 stigma dark ferruginous; third submarginal cell greatly narrowed 

 above; basal nervure ending a short distance basad of transverso- 

 medial; abdomen of the long and comparatively narrow type. 



Hab. — Santa Cruz Mts., Cal.; two in U. S. Nat. Museum. Differs 

 from N. erythrochroa, Ckll. by the black markings, the finely roughened 

 (not distinctly pimctured) abdomen, and the much broader face; from 

 N. corvallisensis, Ckll., by the very much broader face and much less 

 coarsely sculptured mesothorax; from N. clarkii, Ckll., by its shorter 

 head in proportion to its breadth, much narrower abdomen and 

 different venation. 

 Nomada tintinnabulum, sp. n. 



9. — Length about 6^ mm.; a red species similar to A', erythrcea. 

 Eyes pale gray ; facial quadrangle a little longer than broad ; extreme 

 lower corners of face yellowish; face red entirely without marks; a 

 rather prominent keel between antennae ; ocelli on a small black patch ; 

 cheeks all red; antennse entirely red, third joint a trifle shorter than 

 fourth; dorsum of thorax without hair; mesothorax and metathorax 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



with a median blackish band; legs red without black markings, even 

 the coxae all red; wings yellowish-smoky; stigma dull ferruginous; 

 basal nervure ending a short distance basad of transverso-medial ; 

 abdomen red without yellow spots, hind margins of segments more or 

 less golden; first segment with a median black bell-shaped mark; 

 pygidium narrowly rounded at end. 



Hab. — Santa Cruz Mts., Cal., one in U. S. Nat. ]\Iuseum. Differs from 

 N. corvallisensis by its lighter color and narrower and much more finely 

 sculptured mesothorax; from A^ oregonica by the absence of yellow 

 spots on sides of second abdominal segment the venation and the im- 

 maculate face and pleura. The name tintinnahulum refers to the bell- 

 shaped mark. 

 Nomada atrofrontata, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about 8 mm. ; rather dark red, marked with black, little 

 hairy (hair on scutellum dark, on sides of metathorax white) ; eyes pale 

 greenish-gray; facial quadrangle a little broader than long, scarcely 

 narrowed below ; extreme lower corners of face yellowish ; front black 

 from antennse upward, and over to cheeks, leaving the orbital margins 

 (broadly except at top of eyes, where narrowed to a line) red; antennae 

 red, except the small second joint, which is dark, contrasting with the 

 others ; flagellum suffused with bluish-gray; third antenna! joint a very 

 little longer than fourth; mesothorax very densely and minutely pmic- 

 tured, with a broad median black band; scutellum with a narrow 

 median black band; metathorax with a broad band; sides of pro- 

 thorax (except tubercles, which are yellowish) black; area between 

 wings and middle and hind coxae black ; legs red, coxae with much black ; 

 wings smoky, stigma dull ferruginous; second submarginal cell large, 

 quadrate, nearly square, parallel-sided ; third narrowed almost to a 

 point above; basal nervure ending a considerable distance basad of 

 transverse medial; abdomen rather broad, shining, convex, red with 

 obscure 3'ellow spots on sides of third, fourth and fifth segments, and 

 a pair on dorsum of fifth ; third and fourth segments with some median 

 blackish suffusion; first segment with a broad black band on each side. 



Hah. — "So. Cal.," one in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila. Allied 

 to N. ultima, Ckll., but the head is not so broad, and the proportions 

 of the third and fourth antennal joints, and the venation, are very 

 different. 

 Nomada excellens, sp. 11. 



9 . — Length about 11 mm.; robust, red marked with black. Head 

 and thorax quite hairy, the hair of the dorsal parts pale brownish, that 

 of the sides and under parts dull white; eyes pale yellowish-green; 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-'^Llg , 



head broad, facial quadrangle eonsiderabty narrowed below; front and 

 cheeks marked with black as in N. airofrontata, except that the red 

 orbital margin is not narrowed quite to a line at top of eyes, there is a 

 dull red spot before anterior ocellus, and a black line runs down from 

 each antenna to middle of side of cl3^eus; antennae entirely red (in- 

 cluding second joint), third joint conspicuously longer than fourth; meso- 

 thorax with three black stripes, the middle one much the broadest; 

 scutellum prominent, it and the postscutellmn red ; metathorax black 

 with a large red spot on each side ; prothorax black or blackish except 

 upper border and tubercles ; pleiu-a red ; legs red, only the coxae marked 

 with black; basal jomt of hind tarsi broad, the short hair on the inner 

 side shining pale golden; wings moderately smoky, nervures fuscous; 

 stigma quite small, ferruginous; second submarginal cell rather 

 strongly contracted above, receiving the recurrent nervure far beyond 

 its middle; third submarginal cell very narrow, of the same breadth 

 above as the second ; basal nervure ending a moderate distance basad 

 of transverso-medial ; abdomen impunctate but niinutely roughened, 

 very broad, red, with a blackish stain on middle of second segment; 

 no yellow spots; first segment with lateral cuneiform black marks, the 

 points directed latero-posteriorly, and two smaller oblique marks in 

 the dorsal region between them, all being near the base of the segment. 



Hah. — "So. Cal.," one in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila. Some- 

 thing like A^. clarkii, but a very distinct species, not quite falling in 

 Nomada s. str., as defined by Robertson. 

 Nomada angelarum, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about Sh mm., dark red with black markings, abdomen 

 chestnut-red with a purplish luster, hind margins of segments broadly 

 coppery-red. Hair of scutelliun, mesothorax and vertex fuscovis; of 

 sides of metathorax, hind coxae, plem-a, cheeks and face rather abun- 

 dant, white; eyes gray; face a little narrowed below; upper part of 

 clypeus, supraclypeal region, front, vertex, occiput and cheeks black, 

 except that the orbital margins are broadly red, the red sending a 

 pointed projection into the black on vertex; antennae long, red, first 

 three joints more or less black behind ; scape with dark hairs ; face with 

 some dark hairs amongst the white; third antennal joint conspicuously 

 shorter than fourth ; thorax densel}^ rugoso-punctate ; mesothorax with 

 three black bands of nearly equal breadth; metathorax black, with 

 an extremely obscure reddish spot on each side, and a pair of well- 

 defined large round red spots on the enclosure ; nearly all of pleura and 

 tubercles red, but sides of thorax other^vise black; legs red; coxae 

 largely black; middle femora black beneath at extreme base; hind 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



femora strongly suffused with black behind; middle tibia? with a black 

 stripe behind; hind tibiae and tarsi strongly suffused with plumbeous 

 behind; spurs yellowish- white ; wings fairh^ clear, strongly darkened 

 on apical margin; stigma dark ferruginous; second submarginal cell 

 much broader above than third; basal nervure ending a considerable 

 distance basad of transverso-medial ; abdomen only moderately broad ; 

 first segment with the. basal two-fifths (at least) black, the hind margin 

 of the black nearly straight, though more or less crenulated; sides of 

 second to fourth segments with small cream-colored spots, that on 

 second largest, elongated in an antero-posterior direction; fourth and 

 fifth segments with small sublateral cream-colored spots (thus foiu' 

 spots in all on fourth); venter red, second to fourth segments with 

 cream-colored marks, second with a large black blotch. 



Hah. — Los Angeles county, Cal. (CoquiUett). One in U. S. Xat. 

 Museum. Allied to N. oregonica, Ckll., but differs by the numerous 

 abdominal spots, the purplish-coppery colors of abdomen, and the 

 absence of a red spot before middle ocellus. 

 Nomada davidsoni, sp. n. 



2. — Length 9 mm.; face, cheeks and sides of thorax with rather 

 abundant white hair ; head and thorax rugose, black ; eyes gray ; facial 

 quadrangle not far from square, but narrowed below; basal half of 

 mandibles, labrum, broad anterior margin of clypeus, and linear (incon- 

 spicuous) lateral face-marks reaching about to level of antennae, dull 

 yellow; scape black, very hairy; flagellum blackish above and fer- 

 ruginous beneath; third antenna! joint shorter than fourth; tubercles 

 reddish with a yellow spot ; pleura with an angular red mark on lower 

 part; scutellum dark red, suffused with black in middle posteriorly; 

 a small orange spot before each anterior corner of scutellum; post- 

 scutellum red in middle and yellow at sides; metathorax all black; 

 tegulse ferruginous; a reddish patch, becoming yellow posteriorly, be- 

 fore each middle coxa ; legs red ; anterior and middle femora more or 

 less black beneath, hind femora black behind except at extreme apex; 

 anterior tibiae with a black stripe on outer side; hind tibiae with a large 

 black subapical spot on each side; knees and apices of tibiae with more 

 or less distinct cream-colored spots; hind tarsi strongly blackened 

 without; wings moderately dusky, stigma dull ferruginous with a dark 

 brown border; second submarginal cell little narrowed above; basal 

 nervure meeting transverso-medial on the basad side; abdomen only 

 moderately broad, minutely roughened, pale red with large cream-col- 

 ored markings; basal half of first segment black; on the first three 

 segments are pairs of large cream-colored triangles pointing mesad, the 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



first two pairs having a red spot on or near the hind margin, the third 

 (on third segment) almost divided into two by an anterior intrusion 

 of the red; fourth and fifth segments with broad cream-colored bands, 

 deeply notched at the sides anteriorly, the notches rounded; venter 

 red, with six rib-shaped (curved) whitish marks. 



Hah. — "So. Cal.," one in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila. Named 

 after Dr. A. Davidson, who has discovered many Calif ornian bees. The 

 general appearance of the insect recalls N. articulata, Sm., while the 

 details of the markings on thorax and abdomen remind one of N. 

 decempunctata, Ckll. 



Nomada subvicinalis, sp. n. 



cJ*. — Length about 8h mm.; pubescence of head and thorax quite 

 abundant, brown dorsally, white on face, sides and imder parts; head 

 and thorax black, rugoso-punctate ; facial quadrangle nearly square; 

 mandibles (except tips), labrum, clypeus, lateral face-marks and nar- 

 row stripe extending half-way up posterior orbits, lemon-yellow; lat- 

 eral face-marks extending as rather narrow bands up anterior orbits 

 as far as level of antennae, w^here they end abruptly, slightly bending in- 

 ward; scape rather stout, yellow in front, black behind; flagellum long, 

 bright ferruginous, with a black streak above on basal joints; third 

 antennal joint much shorter than fourth; upper border of prothorax, 

 tubercles, and a mark on lower anterior part of pleura, yellow; scutel- 

 lum -wdth two small and obscure red spots; thorax otherwise wholly 

 black ; legs bright red ; hind coxae black behind except at apex ; middle 

 and hind femora with a black spot beneath at base ; tegulae ferruginous ; 

 wings quite long, clear, dusky at apex ; nervures fuscous ; stigma rather 

 small, dull ferruginous; second submarginal cell subtriangular, much 

 narrowed above ; basal nervure ending some distance basad of trans- 

 verso-medial ; abdomen minutely roughened, bright orange-ferruginous 

 apex pointed rather acutely; extreme base of first segment with a 

 small black patch emitting three short prongs; sides of second and 

 third segments with a large rounded yellow spot, not at all pointed 

 mesad ; fourth segment with small lateral spots, sixth obscurely yellow ; 

 apical plate narrow, strongly notched ; venter pale ferruginous marked 

 with yellow, the yellow on second segment forming a large patch. 



Hah. — "So. Cal.," one in U. S. Nat. Museum. Related to X. 

 vicinalis Cresson. 



Nomada marginella, sp. u. 



9 . — Length about 7^ mm. ; head and thorax black, rugoso-punctate, 

 with white pubescence, rather abundant on face, cheeks, pleura, sides 




1903.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



of metathorax, and middle and hind coxse; facial quadrangle nearly 

 square, but broader above than long; mandibles except tips, rather 

 broad upper margin of labrum, rather broad anterior margin of clypeus, 

 and extreme lower corners of face sending a just visible line along 

 orbital margin up to level of antennae, all yellow more or less tinted 

 with reddish ; scape black ; flagellum dark ferruginous, becoming black- 

 ish above on basal two-fifths; third antennal joint shorter than fourth 

 seen from below, 'but a trifle the longer seen from above; tubercles and 

 tegulae ferruginous; a very small but very distinct dull yellow spot 

 before each anterior corner of scutellum; postscutellum reddish in 

 middle, yellow at sides; upper border of prothorax with two small 

 yellow marks; scutellum, metathorax and pleura entirely black; legs 

 ferruginous, coxse and trochanters nearly all black; anterior femora 

 with a black mark beneath at base ; middle and posterior femora with 

 the basal and upper parts 'largely black or blackish ; most of the hind 

 surface of posterior femora black; hind tibise with a yellowish-white 

 mark at base and one at apex, the later with a blackish cloud on each 

 side of it; apical pointed process of hind tibige unusually long; wings 

 dusk}^ at apex; stigma reddish-brown with a dark-brown margin; 

 second submarginal cell quadrate, little narrowed above; third much 

 narrowed above; basal nervure ending opposite transverso-medial, 

 slightly on the basacl side; abdomen rather narrow, pale ferruginous; 

 first segment with basal half black, the black sending a pointed pro- 

 jection backward in the middle line; cream-colored marks as follows, 

 two oblique small marks on the red of first segment, large lateral 

 pyriform (pointed mesad) marks notched posteriorly on second, similar 

 marks so deeply notched anteriorly as to be almost divided into two 

 on third, broad band on fourth deeply notched laterally and very 

 slightly divided in middle line, transversely placed hour-glass-shaped 

 mark on fifth ; base of fourth segment and practically all of fifth except 

 the light mark, black; venter ferruginous more or less suffused with 

 Ijlackish, and with four crescentic cream-colored marks. 

 Hah. — "So. Cal.," one in Coh. Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila. 



Nomada oregonica, C'klL 



Hah. — "So. Cal.," one cJ in Coll. Acad. Xat. Sciences Phila. 

 Nomada bifurcata, sp. n. 



cJ'. — Length about 6 mm.; head and thorax black, with abundant 



long hair, the dorsal hairs brownish, the others white ; facial quadrangle 



nearly square; mandibles except tips, labrum, clypeus and lateral 



face-marks pale yellow; lateral face-marks broad below, rapidly nar- 



37 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



rowing to a line which ends at level of antennae ; the face-markings are 

 almost as in A'", sayi, Rob., but the face is not so densely covered with 

 hair as in that species; scape hairy, black, with a red spot at base in 

 front; fiagellum long, rather crenulated, dull reddish-brown beneath, 

 blackish above; third antennal joint hardly more than half length of 

 fourth, which is unusually long; thorax all black, except an obscure 

 reddish spot on tubercles ; tegulse shining pale testaceous ; legs yellow- 

 ish-red, basal parts and femora beneath blackened; first four tibise 

 with a blackish stripe on the outer side, the stripe on hind tibise is more 

 obscure; hair on inner side of basal joint of hind tarsi very pale yel- 

 lowish ; wings quite long, nearly clear, slightly dusky at apex ; stigma 

 dull reddish-brown; second submarginal cell square, not in the least 

 narrowed above; third narrowed almost to a point above; basal nerv- 

 ure ending a short distance basad of transverso-medial; abdomen 

 rather narrow, shining yellowish-ferruginous ; basal two-thirds of first 

 segment black ; second segment blackish basally at sides ; second, third 

 and fourth segments with yellow lateral spots, easily overlooked be- 

 cause of the yellowish-red of the abdomen ; sixth segment with a very 

 obscure short yellowish band; apical plate strongly bifurcated at end, 

 with two sharp points; venter pale red without markings, the first 

 segment mainly black. 



Hah. — "So. Cal.," one in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila. Allied 

 to A'', sayi, Rob. 



Nomada elegantula, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about 6 mm. ; head and thorax black, moderately hairy; 

 facial quadrangle nearly square, a little narrowed below; labrum dark; 

 mandibles, narrow anterior margin of clypeus, and extremely narrow 

 stripe on anterior orbits nearly up to level of antennae, pale ferruginous 

 suffused with yellow ; scape black with a large red basal batch in front ; 

 fiagellum ferruginous beneath, dark brown above, except first (third 

 antennal) joint, which is red, with the margin prominent; third an- 

 tennal joint a trifle longer than fourth; thorax black without light 

 marks except the reddish tubercles ; legs red ; anterior and middle fem- 

 ora with a black stripe above and beneath ; anterior and middle tibise 

 blackish behind; hind legs black or nearly so, femora beneath at apex, 

 and tarsi beneath in middle, red; wings rather long, nearly clear, apex 

 dusky; stigma practically black; second submarginal cell square, not 

 narrowed above; transverso-medial nervure a little basad of end of 

 basal; abdomen narrow, bright coppery-red; base and sides of first 

 segment, spots on extreme lateral margins of second and third (followed 




1S03.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



by yellowish marks), fourth segment except anterior and posterior 

 margins, and fifth except two rather obscure yellowish spots, all black; 

 apex of fifth wdth a short fringe of silvery- white hair; venter dark with 

 six pale marks. 



Hab. — Los Angeles county, Cal., bearing number 397, one in U. S. 

 Nat. Museum, marked "through C. V. Riley," presumably collected 

 by Coquillett. Three others, marked ''So. Cal.," are in Coll. Acad. 

 Nat. Sciences Phila. The venation and other characters show that 

 this cannot be the ? of N. bifurcata. 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



NORTH AMERICAN BEES OF THE GENUS NOMADA. 



BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



Nomada superba, Cresson, var. a. 



d^ . — Smaller (about 10 mm. long) ; basal nervure meeting transverso- 

 medial, but on the basad side; lateral face-marks truncate above, 

 but sending beyond a fine line to top of eye; lower part of posterior 

 orbits with a yellow stripe. 



Hab. — Cheyenne, Wyoming, June 15 (collection C. V. Riley); one 

 in U. S. National Museum. If the characters are constant in the lo- 

 cality (which is quite a new one for the species) this may be a valid 

 subspecies. 



The following species more or less resemble Nomada luteola, and may 

 be conveniently treated together: 



Males. 



All have scape yellow in front ; mesothorax black ; abdomen with yel- 

 low bands, that on second segment entire or interrupted by a 

 line only, 



1. Scutellum all black ; tegulse testaceous ; supraclypeal mark absent ; 



flagellum bright ferruginous beneath, not denticulate; band on 

 first segment broadly interrupted; bands on second and third 



with a linear interruption, dentarice, Rob. 



Scutellum yellow or spotted with yellow, 2. 



2. Transverse medial nervure a little basad of basal; third antennal 



joint not over (rather less than) half length of fourth; postscu- 



tellum and metathorax wholly black (California), 



sandcBcrucis, Ckll. 

 Basal nervure meeting transverso-medial ; postscutellum largely 



or wholly yellow, 3. 



Basal nervure ending distinctly (often greatly) basad of transverse 



medial, 5. 



3. Metathorax all black, scape very stout (Washington State), 



pascoensis, Ckll. 



Metathorax with much yellow; face narrow, facial quadrangle 



longer than broad, not narrowed below, 4. 



4. Mesothorax wholly black ; apex of abdomen entire . I'mda, Say. 

 Mesothorax with lateral margins yellow; apex of abdomen very 



faintly notched, zebrata, Cress. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



5. Legs red; metathorax with four pale spots; apex of abdomen 



notched, elrodi, Ckll. 



Legs yellow and black, sometimes with red suffusion, especially 

 toward base, 6. 



6. Apex of abdomen entire; the red on legs preponderating, 



affahilis, Cress. 



Apex of abdomen notched, though sometimes obscurely; legs with 



less red, if any, 7, 



7. Pleura with a large transverse yellow patch, 8. 



Pleura with a smaller yellow mark, below tubercles, ... 9. 



8. The yellow patch almost divided in the middle; scutellum and 



lateral margins of mesothorax yellow, . . sulphurata, Smith. 

 The yellow patch not so ; scutellum with two yellow spots ; meso- 

 thorax all black, rivalis, Cress. 



9. Lateral face-marks not going above level of antenna3; small yellow 



spots on scutellum and metathorax (Europe), . succinda, Panz. 

 Lateral face-marks continued narrowly to top of eye, ... 10. 



10. Eyes conspicuously diverging above; flagellum not denticulate; 



tibiae yellow with a black spot behind, .... civilis, Cress. 

 Eyes not or hardly diverging above ; orbits yellow except at sum- 

 mit behind, 11. 



11. Flagellum denticulate beneath; anterior tibiae wholly yellow; yel- 



low band on first abdominal segment interrupted, 



luteoloides, Rob. 



Flagellum not or obscurely denticulate beneath; third antennal 



joint little shorter than fourth; anterior tibiae with a black mark 



behind; band on first abdominal segment entire, or reddish in 



middle, luteola, Lep. 



Females. 



1. Third antennal joint longer than fourth; basal nervure hardly or 



not far basad of transverse medial, 2. 



Third and fourth joints subequal, or third shorter than fourth, 6. 



2. Mesothorax red; front red, no yellow spot in front of middle 



ocellus; legs red; basal nervure almost meeting transverse 

 medial, zebrata, Cress. 



Mesothorax red and black, vincta, Say, var. 



Mesothorax black, 3. 



3. Legs red; third submarginal cell narrow, 



vincta, Say (also zebrata, var.). 



Legs yellow and black; a yellow spot in front of middle ocellus; 



posterior orbits yellow, 4. 



4. Legs red basally ; mesothorax all black, 



xanthophila, Ckll., var. pecosensis, Ckll. 

 Legs not red basally; mesothorax yellow at sides, or with a yel- 

 low spot on each side, 5. 



5. Mesothorax with two yellow stripes on disk, . . edwardsii, Cress. 

 Mesothorax without yellow stripes on disk, . edwardsii, Cress., var. 




5S2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



6. Posterior orbital margin black (Europe). . . . succinda, Panz. 

 Posterior orbital margin broadly yellow 7. 



7. Mesothorax red TN-ithout yellow stripes; legs red and yellow, 8. 



Mesothorax red with j-ellow stripes, 10. 



Mesothorax black, with or without stripes, 11. 



8. Third submarginal cell short; basal nervure considerably basad 



of trans verso-medial, 9. 



Third submarginal cell long; basal ner\au'e almost meeting trans- 

 verso-medial, citrina, Cress., var. rufula, Ckll. 



9. Third antennal joint long; fourth considerably longer than fifth, 



morrisoni, Cress., var. flagellaris, Ckll. 

 Third antennal joint shorter; fourth scarcely longer than fifth, 



morrisoni, Cress. 



10. Third antennal joint scarcely shorter than fourth; fifth about 



equal to third. hiteoloides, Rob. 



Third antennal joint very much shorter than fourth, . luteola, Lep. 



11. Face square, tegulse yellow, 12. 



Face broader than long, 13. 



12. Third submarginal cell very narrow; flagellum mostty dark, 



siilpJmrata, Smith. 

 Third submarginal cell broad below; flagellum fulvous-red be- 

 neath, citrina, Cress, var. 



13. Lateral face-marks receding from orbits above; end of flagellima 



black above, citrina. Cress. 



Lateral face-marks following orbits to top of eye; end of flagellum 

 not black above, civilis, Cress. 



The species of this group {Xanthidium and part of Holonomada of 

 Robertson) are very variable, and in my preliminary examination of 

 them I separated out several supposed species which I have now con- 

 cluded to treat as varieties only. 



Nomada dontarise (Rob.). 



I have a male from southern Ilhnois, sent to me several years ago as 

 A^. luteola by Mr. Robertson. As it clearly possesses the characters 

 assigned to dentarice l:)y Robertson, I assume it to be that insect. 



Nomada vincta, Say. 



I have before me three specimens, all from Illinois, belonging to the 

 Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila. The male is marked by Mr. Viereck: 

 "mixed "<Adth affahilis; flagellum thicker than in ajfabilis." One of the 

 females has the mesothorax red, with a very broad black stripe in the 

 middle; the other has it black, wdth a red stripe on each side above 

 the tegulse. The former specimen is marked by Mr. Viereck: "mixed 

 with luteola." Robertson saj's that N. vincta is autumnal ; Mr. Fowler's 

 California "vincta,". fljdng in ]\Iay, is presumabl}' another species. 




1903.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



Nomada zebrata, Cress. 



The female varies a good deal in size, and looks much like N. mor- 

 ris'oni. I have before me the following specimens: Beulah, N. M., 

 8,000 feet, August, 1902, 1 c? ; South Fork, Eagle Creek, White Mts., 

 N. M., about 8.000 feet, August 16, 1 9 , collected by C. H. T. Townsend; 

 Colorado Springs, Colo. (L. Bruner, No. 26), 1 ? . A female in Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., marked "Col. Snow" (I suppose from Colorado), 

 has precisely the colors of A^. vincta, but from the broad scutellum 

 and postscLitellum, etc., I take it to be a form of zebrata, the two 

 species being very closely allied. 



Nomada elrodi, sp. n. 



d^. — Length about 10 mm., moderately slender; head and thorax 

 black, with rather abundant pubescence; short and grayish dorsally, 

 snow-white and conspicuously plumose on face, cheeks, pleura, etc.; 

 facial quadrangle broader than long, orbits not far from parallel; 

 labrum, mandibles except tips, broad band beneath eyes extending a 

 little beyond middle of posterior orbits as a narrow stripe, clypeus, 

 supraclypeal mark (covered by silver-white hair), and lateral face- 

 marks, lemon-yellow; lateral face-marks very broad, ending a short 

 distance above level of antennae, the end rounded and diverging from 

 the orbital margin; scape swollen but not excessively so, yellow in 

 front, reddish with two large black spots behind; flagellum reaching 

 to metathorax, bright ferruginous, the first four or five joints largely 

 black above; third antennal joint about half length of fourth, fourth 

 considerably longer than fifth; lateral borders of mesothorax red; 

 upper border of prothorax, tubercles, large transverse mark on pleura 

 (almost concealed by white hair), and most of scutellum, yellow; post- 

 scutellum black; metathorax with four reddish-yellow spots, the upper 

 two on the enclosure; tegulse honey-color; wings long, not far from 

 clear, apex dusky, stigma bright ferruginous, nervures ferruginous on 

 basal half and fuscous on apical half of wing; second submarginal cell 

 little narrowed above, third large; basal nervure a moderate distance 

 basad of transverse medial; legs red; a spot at base of anterior femora 

 beneath, basal half of under side of middle femora, and a suffused band 

 on hind femora beneath, black; abdomen light lemon-yellow; basal 

 half of first segment black, the edge of the black wavy; apical margins 

 of all the segments reddish, broadest and darkest on the first three; 

 apex slightly notched; venter yellow with pale ferruginous (marginal) 

 bands, first segment ferruginous marked with a broad black V. 



Hah. — "Montana," one in Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Named 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [A.llg., 



after Prof. M. J. Elrod, the Montana naturalist. Another (with meso- 

 thorax entirely black) is from Cedar Bluffs, Neb. (L. Bruner, No. 30). 

 Nomada sulphurata, Smith. 



This has been regarded as a synonym of N'. luteola, but it appears 

 to me to be a perfectly valid species. I thought at first that A^. hiteo- 

 loides, Rob., might be a synonym of it, but the males at least certainly 

 appear to be different. Compared with N. luteoloides, the male of A^. 

 sul'phurata has a larger thorax and broader abdomen ; the pleura shows 

 a large irregular yellow mark, and a yellow spot beneath the wings ; the 

 scutellum is all yellow, the lateral margins of the mesothorax are yellow, 

 and the metathorax has yellow lateral marks. The scape is more 

 swollen, there is a j^elloAv spot in front of anterior ocellus, and the whole 

 of the face below the level of antennae is j^ellow. The hind margins 

 of the ventral svu'face of abdomen are broadly pale ferruginous. The 

 flagellum is denticulate or warted beneath on the fifth to seventh seg- 

 ments from the end. The female has the mesothorax black, usually 

 but not always with reddish-yellow stripes. The material of A'', sul- 

 phurata before me, consisting of IcJ', 5 ? , was collected by Mr. Viereck 

 at Edge Hill, Pa., the male May 23, the females April 28 and May 5, 

 1901. 



Nomada rivalis, Cress. 



A male marked ''W. T." (Washington State), from Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., is before me. A female, also marked "W. T.," looks 

 as if it belonged with the male, but the basal nervure meets the 

 transverse medial, and the specimen is referred to A^. citrina. 



Nomada civilis, Cress. 



A male from the National Museum is labelled "Colo., 1871," and is 

 apparently from the Baker collection. I thought this might prove to 

 be the male of A'", morrisoni, but a couple of females from Corvallis, 

 Ore., June 3, 1899, are so much like the male that I can only refer them 

 to the same species. . The characters given in the table separate them 

 from morrisoni. 



Nomada luteoloides, Rob., and N. luteola, Lep. 



A female from Georgia, sent to me by Mr. Fox as A'', luteola, has the 

 yellow of metathorax encroaching upon the enclosure, as Robertson 

 states for luteola, but the proportions of the antennal joints agree with 

 luteoloides. A male from Georgia, received with the female, has the 

 flagellum slightly denticulate beneath, and the orbits yellow except 

 at summit behind, so it ought to be luteoloides. Nevertheless, the den- 

 ticulation is feeble, and the anterior tibiiie have a black mark behind; 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



the metathorax has four dull yellow spots. The band on first abdomi- 

 nal segment is ferruginous in the middle. This does not precisely 

 agree with either of the forms Mr. Robertson gets in Illinois ; it seems 

 to fall between them. It does not agree with A'', sulphurata, although 

 that was described from Georgia. A", luteola was originally described 

 from "Carolina," and I suspect that the Georgia specimens here de- 

 scribed may truly represent that species, the Illinois insect of Robert- 

 son being different; but this is at present little better than a guess. 



A female collected by Mr. Alereck at Clementon, N. J., May 22, 1898, 

 is genuine A^. luteola as understood by Robertson. A couple of males 

 from Mr. Viereck, one marked JMontgomery county, Pa., are referred 

 to A^. luteola. Two males in the National Museum belong to A^. luteo- 

 loides; one is from "N. 111." (Belfrage), the other from J. L. Zabriskie, 

 Nyack, N. Y. A c? luteoloides is from Edge Hill, Pa., April 28, 1901 

 (Viereck). 



Nomada edwardsii, Cress. ^ 



Variable in size. Females from Corvallis, Oregon, May and June 

 (Cordley), and Washington State (Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.) 

 lack the two yellow stripes on disk of mesothorax. The stripes are 

 present in a female from Silver Lake, Utah, Jul}' 14 (H. Skinner). 



Nomada xanthophila, Ckll., var. pecosensis n. var. (u. sp.?). 



A female specimen was taken at the Kin Kale Ranch, Pecos, N. M., 

 June 26, 1903, by Wilmatte P. Cockerell. It has a good deal of resem- 

 blance in color and markings to A'", suavis, Cress., but it is by no means 

 the same. I refer it to xantJwphila, because it looks like that species 

 and is from the same general region, but it differs from the type c? by 

 the microscopically tessellate rather than punctured abdomen, the 

 bright ferruginous stigma, the second submarginal cell conspicuously 

 narrowed above; first joint of labial palpi considerably longer than 

 the other three together, second considerably longer than the third and 

 fourth together; third antennal joint conspicuously longer than fourth. 

 Other characters, more likely to be merely sexual, are: Head rather 

 abundantly hairy, though the face is almost bare; supraclypeal mark 

 well-developed; scape yellow in front, otherwise ferruginous with a 

 black mark behind ; antennie reaching scutellum ; sides of metathorax 

 with very large yellow patches; pleura with a very large trans^■erse 

 yellow patch, and a yellow spot beneath the wings, no ferruginous at 

 all ; hind coxse yellow in front ; base and apical margin of first abdomi- 

 nal segment black, the rest (a very broad band) yellow; no ferruginous 

 on second segment. The eyes are sage-green. From A", superba this 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF FAu 



&•> 



differs by being smaller, the basal nervure very little basad of the trans- 

 verse medial, sciitellum much less bilobate, mesothorax with only very 

 short inconspicuous hair, outer side of third submarginal cell curved 

 instead of angled, labial palpi pale ferruginous (darker, first joint 

 almost black, in superba), etc. The N. superba compared is from 

 S. Illinois (Robertson) . The hump-like process seen on the sides of the 

 metathorax in superba is barely indicated by a slight angularity in the 

 Pecos insect. The length of the latter is about 11^ mm., and it is not 

 so broad as superba. In Robertson's table of Holonomaila the Pecos 

 insect runs to affabilis and rineta, having the mesonotum coarsely 

 punctured, nearly bare, flagellum red, its apical portion more or less 

 suffused with blackish. 



On the whole, I expect the Pecos bee to prove distinct from N. xan- 

 thophila, but as the two are so very much alike, and are known only 

 by single examples of opposite sexes, I leave the female as a variety 

 pecosensis. 

 Nomada succincta, Panz. 



This is a Xanthidium, and looks much like our N. sulphurata. My 

 examples are from Palma de Mallorca, Balearic Is. (Andre). 



Nomada citrina, Cress. 



I have before me three females from the Acad. Xat. Sciences Phila. 

 One is from Washington State, without further data; the others are 

 from Grangeville, Ida., "deposited by Wm. J. Fox." The Washington 

 specimen is no doubt genuine citrina. The Idaho form has the face 

 slightly narrower, and in one of them the head and thorax are red with 

 yellow markings, the black being reduced to a few spots and patches. 

 In this state the insect looks much like N. morrisoni or zehrata. In 

 the Washington specimen the basal nervure meets the transverse 

 medial ; in the Idaho ones the basal is a trifle more basad. In Cres- 

 son's types (as I learn from Mr. Viereck) the basal nervure is from 

 moderately to considerably basad of the transverse medial. 



The red form from Idaho may be called A'', citrina var. rufula. It 

 has the antennae entirely red, except that the scape is yellow in front; 

 the front and vertex are bright red, except that the ocelli are on a 

 black patch; mesothorax red, coarsely punctured, a little yellow in 

 front of the tegulse; scutellum with two large yellow spots separated 

 b}^ red; abdomen yellow with red bands, basal half of first segment 

 red with four black or blackish spots; legs red and yellow, hind coxae 

 and femora heavily marked behind with black. 

 Nomada morrisoni, Cress. 



Three females from the National Museum are from Colorado; two 

 collected by Morrison, one marked "San Louis, Col., June 6, 1883, 




1903.] ' NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



Bnmer." The last. I suppose from the San Luis Valley, is peculiar 

 for having the nervure separating the first and second submarginal 

 cells wholly wanting in both wings. 



The var. flagellaris has the basal joints of the flagellum lengthened, 

 as indicated in the table. It is possibly a distinct species. It is from 

 Colorado {Morrison), in U. S. National Museum. It has the "anterior 

 middle of mesothorax" red like the rest, not black. The yellow of the 

 metathorax extends upward to form two large spots on the enclosure. 

 The legs are without black, even on the coxse. 



MELANOMADA, subg. n. 



Type iV. grindelitje, Ckll. The male, in Robertson's table, runs to 

 Holonomada, but is entirely black, without yellow markings. Size 

 small; vertex and mesothorax smooth and shining; apex of abdomen 

 rounded, entire; basal nervure meeting transverso-cubital ; antennae 

 short, third joint much longer than fourth, middle joints of flagellum 

 much wider than long. Female unknown.^ The type was taken at 

 Lincoln, Neb., at flowers of Grindelia, in September. It is described in 

 a paper sent to Am. Mag. Nat. Hist. A second specimen (Coll. of 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.) is from Montana (no other particulars 

 known); it is smaller (length about 6 mm.), with red mandibles and 

 reddish stigma. 



By the smooth mesothorax, Melanomada recalls the ]\Iexican N. 

 limata, Cresson. 



Nomada magnifica, sp. n. 



9. —Length about 13^ mm., robust. "Colo., 1170, A. E. S. Coll., 

 W. J. Fox," with Mr. Viereck's note, "mixed with grandis." I confess 

 that I should have taken it for grandis, had not Mr. Viereck found it 

 different. In true N. grandis, as I learn from Mr. Viereck, the l^asal 

 nervure is a long distance basad of the transverso-medial, as in superha, 

 edwardsii and affahilis; in N. magnifica the basal nervure meets the 

 transverso-medial. The specimen of magnifica has the yellow parts 

 wholly reddened by cyanide, but it seems to have been marked as in 

 grandis; the abdomen was certainly yellow with the hind margins 

 of the segments infuscated, and with the basal half of the first segment 

 ferruginous, with a dusky spot on each side. Other particulars are: 

 Apical part of mandibles black; mandibles simple, stout; head prac- 

 tically without black, area about ocelli blackish; antennae entirely red, 

 third joint longer than fourth; mesothorax coarsely and extremely 



^ Mr. J. C. Crawford writes that he has the $ , and that it has a red abdomen. 




588 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF - [Aug., 



densely punctured, with a blackish median band ; scutellum prominent, 

 apparently yeUow, with very large punctures; enclosure of metathorax 

 jet black, strongly contrasting -u-ith surroimding parts, having a well- 

 defined httle area of fine ridges on each side; tegulae large, ferruginous, 

 punctm'ed; "^ings dusky, especially the apical margin very broadly; 

 nerviu"es brown; stigma smah, ferruginous; second submarginal cell 

 very broad, receiving the recm-rent nervure less than a third of its 

 width from the end; third submarginal cell rather narrow, with its 

 outer side curved rather than bent; legs bright ferruginous. 

 The insect is eAddently a Holonomada. 



Nomada excellens, Ckll., var. a. 



2 . — Lateral black stripes on mesothorax evanescent; red spots on 

 metathorax larger; black spots at base of first abdominal segment 

 evanescent. 



Hah. — Nevada (no other jDarticulars known) ; one in Coll. of Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Nomada erigeronis, Rob. 



$ . — Length about 11 mm., with a very broad abdomen. Has sim- 

 ple mandibles and large spines on front coxae, and belongs to Centrias, 

 of which it is the tj^pe species. The stigma is very small; second sub- 

 marginal cell broad ; basal nerviu-e only just basad of transverso-medial. 

 The specimen before me is from Nebraska (no other particulars kno'UTi), 

 in Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., where (as Mr. Viereck tells me) 

 it was mixed with A^. helfragei. 

 Nomada latifrons, Ckll., var. a. 



2 . — Length about 9 mm. ; the black ocellar area completely sep- 

 arated by red from the black area Just above the antennae. 



Hab. — Nevada (no other particulars kno^m) ; one in Coll. of Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Nomada vinimla, Cress. 



A new locality is Corvallis, Ore., June 1 to 10, several females 

 (Cordley). The female is very near N. edvcardsii, but has a broader 

 face, pleura \^"ith only a yellow triangular mark, and mesothorax 

 wholly black. I do not know how to separate the male from edwardsii, 

 or it may be that all my males are edwardsii. Prof. Cordley took 

 female edwardsii at Corvallis on April 3 and May 11. 

 Nomada nigrocincta, Smith. 



Prof. Cordley took the female at Corvallis, Ore., June 3. The man- 

 dibles are simple, and the abdomen has distinct black bands. There 

 is some yellow at the lower corners of face, and small inconspicuous 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



3'ellow spots on each extreme side of third and fom-th abdominal seg- 

 ments. Third antennal joint considerably shorter than fourth. 



In a paper sent to Annals and Mag. of Nat. History, I have described 

 a number of red species of Nomada from Corvalhs, Ore.; but have 

 given no table for their separation. The foUomng table separates the 

 females seen from Corvallis, in which red is the preponderating color: 



1. Mandibles bidentate; abdomen with yellow spots on second seg- 



ment only, or none; third joint of antennse as long as fourth; 



metathorax with a black median band 2. 



Mandibles simple, 5. 



2. Larger; abdomen dark red; third submarginal cell narrowed 



almost to a point above ; first abdominal segment with a black 



mark on each side, 3. 



Smaller; third submarginal cell not so much narrowed, . . 4. 



3. Second segment with no distinct yellow spots (May 28), 



bella, Cress., var. 

 Second segment with distinct yellow spots (May 9), 



hella, Cress., var. 



4. Abdomen shorter, dark red (April) rhodomelas, CkW.? 



Abdomen longer, light red (May), grayi, Ckll, 



5. Abdomen with black bands (June), .... nigrocmcta, Sniiih. 

 Abdomen without black bands, 6. 



6. Abdomen with large yellow spots on second and third segments, 



more or less of a band on fourth, etc. ; third antennal joint about 

 equal with fourth; a little yellow at lower corners of face (May 



and June), lewisii, Ckll. 



Abdomen with very small yellow spots or none, and no band, 7. 



7. Abdomen without yellow spots, 8. 



Abdomen with j^ellow spots (4 or 6) ; yellow at lower corners of 



face; third antennal joint shorter than fourth, .... 10. 



8. Size larger, about 10 mm. long; third antennal joint almost as long 



as fourth; no yellow at corners of face; sides of abdomen with 



suffused black marks (April), clarkii. Ckll. 



Size smaller, about 8 mm. long, 9. 



9. Yellow at lower corners of face ; third antennal joint not more than 



half length of fourth; sides of abdomen inclined to be black- 

 spotted (May, June), astori, Ckll. 



No yellow at lower corners of face; third antennal joint at least as 

 long as fourth; abdomen dark red, its sides without black marks 



(^lay) corvallisensis , Ckll. 



10. Base of abdomen with a black mark in middle, or black right across ; 

 third antennal joint not much shorter than fourth (May, June), 



oregonica, Ckll. 



Base of abdomen without a black mark in middle; third antennal 

 joint much shorter than fourth (May, June), . idtima, Ckll. 



Nomada ultima taraxacella, subsp. n. 



9 . — Length 7 mm., red; similar to idtima, but face narrower; meso- 

 thorax red without any black stripes (three black stripes in idtima); 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



black marks on first abdominal segment evanescent. As in ultima, 

 there is a black diamond-shaped mark on the metathorax. The width 

 of the face seems to vary somewhat. 



Hab. — Placita, N. M., at flowers of Taraxacum taraxacum, one, 

 May 5, 1903 (Cockerell) ; Pecos, N. M., at flowers of Fallugia acuminata 

 {F. paradoxa acuminata, Wooton), one, June 23 (W. P. Cockerell); 

 near Viveash Ranch, N. M., 8,800 feet, at flowers of Erigeron, one, July 

 21 (T7. P. Cockerell). 

 Nomada americana, Kirby. 



This species seems to have a very wide distribution; specimens in 

 the National Museum are from Canada, Colorado (with numbers 

 2,076, 2,185), and Louisiana (with numbers 2,564, 2,567, 2,420). They 

 appear to come from the Baker collection. Two in Coll. of Acad, 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., are from North Carolina. I also have the species 

 from So. Illinois (Robertson) and Baldwin, Kans., June (Bridwell). 

 It appears from the Bakerian numbers that this species is taken in 

 Colorado along with N. scita. Now scita has a spine on the anterior 

 coxa, and is very near to americana, though undoubtedly distinct. I 

 cannot help thinking it possible that the Colorado americana females, 

 though to all appearances genuine americana, are actually females of 

 scita? 



The male of N. americana is quite variable; if I had only a large 

 Canadian specimen and one of the smallest from Louisiana, I should 

 think them different species. The Louisiana males (21 examined) 

 vary greatly in size. One male is from Indiana, with number 2,003. 



Nomada martinella, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about 7 mm.; bright red. This was formerly supposed 

 to be N. incerta = americana; but it differs in its smaller size ; lighter 

 color, especially of the thorax; mesothorax without a black band; 

 face broader above ; antennae and legs entirely bright ferruginous red. 



Hab. — ]\Iesilla Park, N. i\I., April 9, at flowers of plum (Cockerell, 

 2,628). Named after my little son. Two specimens were taken. A 

 supposed variety of the same species, somewhat larger (length about 

 8 mm.), with the second submarginal cell very much broader, and the 

 tegulse lighter and yellower and less pimctured, was sent to me by Mr. 

 Fox as N. incerta. It is from Colorado, and if its distinctive characters 

 are constant it is presumably separable specifically. Possibly it is the 

 true female of N. scita. A specimen from Sioux City, Neb. (Bruner, 

 29), is also referred to N. martinella; it has the second submarginal cell 



^ However, I find two males of A^. americana dacotana labelled " Colo. 2,076." 




1903 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



comparatively narrow, as in martinella, but it receives the recurrent 

 nervure far beyond its middle (at its middle in martinella type) ; in 

 size it nearly agrees with martinella; the first joint of the flagellum is 

 not much shorter than the second, seen from the front, whereas in 

 martinella type it is considerably shorter. 



All these insects are very easily separated from A^. americana by 

 the clear red antennae and thorax without a black stripe. At a glance 

 they look like N. ultima taraxacella, but they are Centrias, with strongly 

 punctured abdomen and spines on front coxse. They have not the 

 black diamond on the metathorax, which is seen in taraxacella. 

 Nomada scitiformis, sp. n. 



(5^. — Length about 9 mm.; black with yellow markings; legs red 

 and black. Flagellum constructed and colored as in N . scita, of which 

 I had supposed this a variety, until I saw the real scita from Colorado. 

 A^. scitiformis differs from scita thus: Somewhat larger; clypeus low, 

 no supraclypeal mark, and lateral marks shorter, so that the black area 

 below the antennae is much larger; postscutellum entirely black; ab- 

 dominal bands lemon-yellow; first segment with no band, but only a 

 spot on each side; band on second segment very broad at sides, rapidly 

 narrowing mesad, where it is interrupted; legs a darker duller red, 

 with more black; hind femora mostly black. 



Hab. — Corvallis, Ore., June 2 to 8 {Cordley). Sometimes the clypeus 

 has only the anterior margin yellow ; and sometimes the first abdominal 

 segment has an interrupted band, while that on the second is narrowly 

 continuous in the middle. Five specimens examined. 



N. scitiformis and also N. scita belong to Centrias, having a spine on 

 the anterior coxa. The anterior legs of the males of these and A''. 

 americana differ thus: 



A^. scitiformis: Spine black, fairly long; red of leg fairly bright. 



A'', scita: Spine pale red, slender and rather long, directed caudad; 

 red of leg bright. 



A'', americana: Spine red, short; red of leg not so bright. 



Aside from these characters, the males of Centrias { + Nomadula) 

 are easily separated thus: 



1. Hind femora distinctly arcuate; base of abdomen with much red, 



americana, Kirby. 

 Hind femora not arcuate; base of abdomen not red, .... 2. 



2. Antenna without a pale annulus (middle region of flagellum), 



erigeronis, Rob. 

 Antenna with a pale annulus 3. 



3. Hind femora with much black; no supraclypeal mark, 



scitiformis, Ckll. 

 Hind femora bright red; a supraclypeal mark, . . scita, Cress. 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug r 



The female N. americana is easily distinguished from the red species 

 of Gnathias and Nomada s. str. by the strongly pmictured abdomen: 

 Kirby says nothing about this, and it is with some hesitation that I 

 follow Robertson's identification of the species. 



N . articulata, Smith (d" from Brookings, S. Dak., June 8, 1891) has 

 a long spine on the anterior coxa, and belongs to Centrias. The hind 

 femora are arcuate, and the ground-color of the abdomen is mainly 

 red. This specimen of N. articulata was identified by Mr. Fox, who 

 gave it to me; but I find that it is not typical, and in fact Smith's 

 description of articulata applies to the ordinary male of americana. 

 Kirby, as understood by Robertson. Hence, if any one should wish 

 to discard Kirby's name as of uncertain application, articulata will be 

 the proper name of the insect. T do not believe that valida. Smith, 

 which has prioritj' of place, is applicable. 



The South Dakota insect, just referred to, may be described thus : 

 Nomada americana dacotana subsp. n. 



(j'. — Length about 9^ mm.; mesothorax largely dark red, leaving a 

 broad median black band ; lower inner angle of second submarginal 

 cell produced; abdomen light red wdth yellow bands; basal half of 

 first segment, and apical portion more or less, black; first segment with 

 a yellow band narrowly interrupted in middle ; band on second segment 

 greatly narrowed but continuous in middle. 



Hah. — Brookings, S. D., June 8. Also two specimens with band on 

 second segment interrupted, marked "Colo., 2,076," in National I\Iu- 

 seum. Also three males from Montana (Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila.). 

 Nomada rubicunda (Oliv.). 



This is also a Centrias. I have before me six females collected by 

 Mr. Viereck in New Jersey; one at Clementon, May 16, 1897, five at 

 Riverton, April 29. The insect is easily distinguished from americana 

 by the light bands on the apical half of the abdomen, these bands in 

 the New Jersey form loeing creamy-white. The basal nervure is a 

 little basad of the transverso-medial. 

 Nomada (Heminomada) obliterata, Cress. 



A female from Indiana (Nat. Mus.) bears the Bakerian number 2,003. 

 The species goes west even to ^lontana. as shown b}' two males in 

 Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. One of them, very curiously, has 

 a triangular areolet on both sides at the beginning of the first 

 recurrent nervure. 



The following species are small (all under 10 mm. long), with numer- 

 ous clear-cut vellow or white bands on abdomen : 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 593 



Females. 



1. Legs with much yellow; clypeus yellow; metathorax all black, 



formula, Viereck. 

 I-egs red, 2. 



2. jMarkings yellow; punctures of mesothorax very coarse and dense 



(Las Vegas, N. M.), . . . modesta, Cress., var. vegana, Ckll, 



Markings cream-color; punctures of mesothorax well separated on 



a shining ground, vierecki, Ckll. 



Males. 



1. Apical plate of al:)domen conspicuously notched; legs red, . 2. 

 Apical plate of abdomen rounded or truncate, with at most a feeble 



emargination, 5. 



2. Scape slender, 3. 



Scape swollen, yellow in front, 4, 



3. Markings white, vierecki, Ckll, 



Markings j^ellow, crucis, Ckll, 



4. Flagellum very long, entirely black above, denticulate; lateral face- 



marks narrow, fragilis, Cress. 



Flagellum black above at base and 2h joints before the last; lateral 



face-marks broad, scita, Cress. 



.5. Legs red 6, 



Legs with much yellow, 8. 



6. Face covered with white hair; scape swollen, yellow in front, 



sophiarum, Ckll, 

 Face practically bare ; scape slender, 7, 



7. Abdomen broader; lateral spots, but no band, on third segment, 



lippice, Ckll. 

 Abdomen narroAver ; a band on third segment , neomexicana, Ckll. 



8. Supraclypeal mark present; metathorax with much yellow, 



suavis, Cress. 

 No supraclypeal mark; metathorax all black, , vei-ecunda, Cress, 



A^. vierecki, crucis, sophiarum, lippice and neomexicana have been 

 described in a paper sent to Annals and Mag. of Nat. History. The 

 N. suavis before me is a single example from California, from the 

 National Museum. N. fragilis I recognize in a specimen which I col- 

 lected at Pecos, N. M., June 21, 1903, at Salix. It is a Xanthidium, and 

 is not allied to the other species in the above table. The third antennal 

 joint is exceedingly short, and the basal nervure is a little basad of 

 the trans verso-medial. 



Of N. scita I have before me five examples; one from Montana 

 (Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.), the others from Colorado, apparently from 

 the Baker collection, bearing numljers 2,07G and 2,185 (National 

 j\Iuseum). 



Of N. verecunda I have before me five from Nevada (Coll. of 

 38 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Au 



&•» 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.). They differ very much from one another, 

 and I thought at first to separate two species, one larger, with the 

 scape yellow in front, the other smaller, with the scape dark. I think, 

 however, they are certainly all one species. The transverse medial 

 nervure is basad of the basal; a peculiar character, shared (as I learn 

 from Mr. Viereck) by A^. adducta, putnami, suavis, snoioi and heilig- 

 hrodtii. 

 Nomada ruidoseusis, sp. n. 



cJ*. — Length 7 mm.; in the above table it runs doubtfully to N. 

 j-ragilis, with which I had confused it; it differs, however, as follows: 

 Head narrower; facial quadrangle almost square, not broadened above ; 

 no supraclypeal mark; upper part of lateral face-marks narrower; 

 scape little swollen, dull reddish-yellow in front; fiagellura (long as in 

 fragilis) more slender; third antennal joint, seen from above, very little 

 shorter than fourth; a small yellow spot on pleura, but no yellow on 

 scutellum: general tint of legs darker, the black more suffused; first 

 abdominal segment entirely black; yellow band on second segment 

 narrowly interrupted. The fiagellum is not denticulate. 



Hab. — Ruidoso creek, New Mexico {E. 0. Wooton, No. 67). 



Allied to JV. dentarice, Rob., but much smaller. The basal nervLue 

 meets the transverso-medial, but a little on the basad side. The sec- 

 ond submarginal cell is very broad above. The ventral surface of the 

 abdomen is dark brown, with obscure markings. 

 Nomada elegantula, Ckll. 



A new locality is Lewiston, Idaho, one in Coll. of Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., "deposited by Wm. J. Fox." 



The following species have bidentate mandibles, and belong to 

 Robertson's genus Gnathias: 



Females. 



1. Abdomen without j^ellow spots, 2. 



Abdomen with yellow spots, 4. 



2. Head and thorax dark; scape dark, with a red basal spot, 



perplexa, Cress., var. 

 Head and thorax lighter; scape entirely red in front, ... 3. 



3. Mesothorax and metathorax with a black median band (Louisi- 



ana), louisianw, Ckll. 



Mesothorax and metathorax without a black median band (Ne- 

 vada), rhodalis, Ckll. 



4. Fifth abdominal segment with yellow spots, 5. 



Fifth abdominal segment without yellow spots, 8. 



5. Lower anterior orbits yellowish; pygidium ovate; mesothorax 



commonly with three stripes, ovata (Koh.). 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



Lower anterior orbits not yellowish; mesothorax with not more 

 than one stripe, 6. 



6. Larger; 10 mm. long or over; red of abdomen quite bright, 



bella, Cress. 

 Smaller; 8 or 9 mm. long 7. 



7. Red of abdomen dark, cuneata (Rob.). 



Red of abdomen light (Colorado), schwarzi, Ckll. 



8. Length over 10 mm. ; abdomen rather long, 9. 



Length under 10 mm., 10. 



9. General color darker (Pa., N. IL), .... bella, Cress., var. 

 General color lighter (Wash., Ore., B. C). . . bella, Cress., var. 



10. Dark species; scape in front black or blackish, with red basal spot, 



verplexa, Cress. 

 Scape in front red, 11. 



11. Two submarginal cells orayi eastonensis, Ckll., var. 



Three submarginal cells, 12. 



12. Yellow spots on second abdominal segment small and inconspicu- 



ous, 18. 



Yellow spots on second abdominal segment conspicuous, . . 16. 



13. Face very broad; orbits hardly converging below; third submar- 



ginal cell very high and narrow, but not much narrowed to mar- 

 ginal (Wash.), washingtoni, Ckll. 



Face narrower; orbits conspicuously converging below, . . 14. 



14. Third submarginal cell narrowed nearly or quite to a point above, 



broad below (Wash.), firayi eastonensis, Ckll. 



Third submarginal cell not thus narrowed above, . . . . 15. 



15. Ab<lomen long, light red; onl}^ a little black at base of first seg- 



ment, (jrai/i, Ckll. 



Abdomen shorter, broader and darker; much more black at base 

 of first segment (Oregon), rJioclomelas.CkW.? 



16. Smaller and lighter (North Carolina), .... carolinre, Ckll. 

 Larger and darker (N. H., Pa., Ind., Kans., Neb.), cuneata (Rob.). 



Males. 



1. Scutellum usually spotted with yello^v; tegulie more or less yel- 



low, 2. 



Scutellum black or red ; tegulffi ferruginous, 3. 



2. Middle joints of antennse not longer than wide. . . ovafa (Rob.). 

 Middle joints of antenn;c longer than wide (Texas), lepida. Cress. 



3. Clypeus w'ith only the anterior margin 3'ellow, though often 



broadly, 4. 



Clypeus all or with, the greater part yellow, 7. 



4. Abdomen broad, very dark red, with two widely distant spots on 



second segment, and usually on third, . . . perplexa, Cress. 

 Abdomen lighter, 5. 



5. Second submarginal cell receiving recurrent nervure beyond its 



middle; abdomen light red with four large yellow spots; scape 

 black in front; second submarginal cell narrow (Oregon), 



rhodomelas, Ckll. 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Second submarginal cell recci^■ing recurrent nervure before or at 

 its middle, 6. 



6. Larger; yellow marks on second abdominal segment almost meet- 



ing in middle line, bella. Cress. 



Smaller; yellow marks on second abdominal segment wideh' sepa- 

 rated, cuneata (Rob.). 



7. Abdomen long and narrow, bright red, with very widely separated 



yellow spots on second and third segments ; second submarginal 

 cell receiving recurrent nervure a little bej^ond its middle; 

 scape red tinged with ^tIIow in front ; second submarginal cell 



broad (Xevada), 'physura, Ckll. 



Not so 8. 



S. Rocky ^Mountain species; mesothorax with more or less red; lat- 

 eral margins of metathoracic enclosure curved inward; third 

 antennal joint on upper side at least as long as fourth; no black 



spots on red part of first abdominal segment, 9. 



Species of the comitrj- east of the Rocky Mountains, going v.-est in 

 the north to Washington State ; mesothorax rarely with any red, 

 when with red, lateral margins of metathoracic enclosure prac- 

 tically straight, 10. 



9. Third antennal joint short; second submarginal cell narrowed 

 above, and receiving the recurrent nervure at or before its mid- 

 dle (New Mexico), scJumrzi contractida, Ckll. 



. Third antennal joint longer; second submarginal cell broader 

 above, and receiving the recurrent nervure beyond its middle 

 (Colorado), schicarzi, Ckll. 



10. ^lesothorax largely red (Lehigh Gap, Pa.), . perplexa, Cress., var. 

 Mesothorax black. 11. 



11. Size largest; length nearly 10 mm.; eyes usualh' pale; abdomen 



usually with well-developed yellow bands, . . bella, Cress. 

 Size medium: length little over 7 mm., sometimes smaller, . 12. 

 Size smallest; length about 6 mm. or less, . . cuneata (Rob.). 



12. Scape light red in front; spots on light part of first abdominal seg- 



ment practically obsolete; scutellum largely red (New York), 



cuneata var.? 

 Scape black or dark red in front, 13. 



13. Scape black in front; eyes gra}-; scutellum black; abdomen with 



cream-colored bands, albofasciata, Smith. 



Eyes black or nearly so; scutellum black or red; two black spots 

 on first abdominal segment distinct (Wisconsin), cuneata var.? 



Nomada lepida, Cresson. 



(S^ . — Length 74^-8^ mm. ; head and thorax black, with abundant hair, 

 white except on vertex and dorsimi of thorax, where it is tinted with 

 brownish-gray, so as to appear dirty; facial cjuadrangle longer than 

 broad; labrum, basal part of mandibles, clypeus (l^ut no supraclypeal 

 mark), and narrow lateral face-marks extending to level of antennae, 

 lemon-yellow; posterior orbits with a narrow yellow line extending 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



about half-way up; scape scarcely swollen, dull yellow and striato- 

 punctate in front; flagellum rather dark ferruginous, the basal half 

 more or less black above; third antennal joint shorter than fourth; 

 thorax very densely punctured; narrow stripe on upper margin of pro- 

 thorax, tubercles, round spot (not conspicuous) on anterior part of 

 pleura (sometimes absent), and two oval spots on scutellum (which 

 may be absent or represented b}^ very small reddish-yellow spots), all 

 yellow; an orange stripe on postscutellum, and an orange dot at each 

 anterior corner of scutellum, may be well-developed or practically obso- 

 lete; tegulse more or less pale yellow; wings clear, dusky at apex, 

 nervures dark brown, stigma dark ferruginous; second and third sub- 

 marginal cells equally broad above, or the second may be somewhat 

 broader; basal nervure a considerable distance basad of transverso- 

 medial; legs pale ferruginous, with yellow knees and yellow stripes on 

 the tibise; most of coxse. base of middle femora, and hind femora except 

 apex, black; abdomen dark brown with six bright yellow bands, that 

 on second segment very broad, and not nuich narrowed in the middle, 

 that on fourth inclined to be narrowly interrupted; apex bidentate; 

 venter dark reddish marked with yellow. 



Hah. — Round ^lountain, Tex., three in Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 Collector unknown. Also two from Colorado (Baker collection. No. 

 1.871), in the National JMuseum. The species has been recorded from 

 Rock Island, 111., and Berkeley, Cal., but possibly the specimens from 

 the latter locality may be wrongly determined. 



]\Ir. Mcreck very kindly went over the whole Cresson collection to 

 see if there were any species of Gnathias not recognized as such by me. 

 He found only A^ lepida; N. amccna was not in the collection, and 

 could not be examined. I had described N. lepida as new, and it is 

 only Mr. Yiereck's reference of it to Gnathias that has enabled me to 

 correct the error. I let my description stand, as it will probably be 

 useful. 



Nomada grayi eastonensis, subsp. n. 



? , — Length about 8 mm.; red. Differs from N. grayi by the third 

 submarginal cell narrowing to a point above, the anterior orbits diverg- 

 ing less above, and the greater amomit of black at the base of the first 

 abdominal segment. In the type specimen, and also in the type of 

 iV. grayi, the first ventral abdominal segment has a black mark resem- 

 bling a fish-tail. 



Hah. — One specimen, marked "Easton, AVash., K.," is in the Na- 

 tional Aluseum. Another marked "W. T." in Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Phila. is referred to eastoneiisis, but is peculiar for having the nervure 

 between the second and third submarginal cells wanting. 

 Nomada rhodomelas, sp. n. 



cJ'. — Length about 8 mm. ; head and thorax black, extremely closely 

 punctured ; facial quadrangle nearly square ; anterior margin of ch^peus 

 (failing in middle), labrum, base of mandibles, and very narrow lateral 

 face-marks ending as a fine line scarcely as high as antennae, all yellow ; 

 scape black; flagellum red, basal half black above; third antennal 

 joint nearly as long as fourth; thorax entirely black except that the 

 tubercles are coppery-red; pubescence of head and thorax abundant, 

 dull white, about the same color throughout; legs red, basal half of 

 anterior femora beneath, middle femora behind except apex, and hind 

 femora at sides and beneath, black; tegulae light ferruginous, shining: 

 wings fairly clear, dusky at apex; nervures and stigma dark brown; 

 second submarginal cell narrow, higher than broad; third about or 

 nearly as broad above as second, but greatly broadened at base ; basal 

 nervure a fair distance basad of transverso-medial ; abdomen narrow, 

 light red; basal half of first segment black; hind margins of first and 

 second segments narrowly blackened, especially at sides; second and 

 third segments each with a pair of large light yellow spots, wide apart 

 and not pointed mesad; apex with a shallow emargination ; venter 

 red, more or less clouded -^ith blackish, and black at base. 



//a5.— Corvallis, Ore.. May 20, 1899 (Cordley). A female from Cor- 

 vallis, April 15 (Cordley), is referred to N. rJiodomelas with much hesita- 

 tion. It is red, and agrees with rhodomelas, and differs from grayi, in 

 having much black at the base of the first abdominal segment. The 

 second submarginal cell is very different from that of rhodomelas, being 

 greatly broadened at the base, not essentially different from that of 

 grayi. The abdomen is oval, quite broad, with round yellow spots on 

 the sides of the second segment. The region just above the antennae 

 is black. 

 Nomada wasMngtoni, sp. n. 



? . — Length about 8^V mm. ; a bright ferruginous species, super- 

 ficially similar to grayi, but with a shorter, more shining abdomen. It 

 differs also by its considerably broader face, the orbits hardly converg- 

 ing below, and the peculiar third submarginal cell, which is high and 

 narrow, the outer side regularly curved. The wings are dusky, the 

 stigma is dark, and the basal nervure is a long distance basad of the 

 transverso-medial; antennae wholly red, except that the scape has a 

 black mark above; third joint very much shorter than fomth; middle 

 of front with a large black patch; mesothorax with a median black 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



Stripe, but that on metathorax merely indicated on lower part; abdo- 

 men very broad; hardly any black at base of first segment; second 

 with a small roimd yellow spot on each side ; first ventral segment with 

 a suffused black fish-tail mark ; legs red, middle and hind femora more 

 or less black at base beneath; first joint of hind tarsi blackened. 



Hab. — Washington State (further particulars vmknown), one in 

 Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Nomada physura, sp. n. 



&. — Length 9 mm. ; head and thorax black, very densely punctured, 

 hairy, the dorsal hairs orange-ferruginous, the others white; facial 

 quadrangle broader than long, especially above, the orbits conspicu- 

 ously converging below; mandibles (except tips), labrum, cl5^peus, and 

 lateral face-marks (narrow, and ending in a very fine point about level 

 of antennae), lemon-yellow; antennae long, third joint considerably 

 shorter than fourth; scape stout but hardly swollen, haiiy, reddish- 

 yellow in front and black behind; flagellum bright ferruginous, basal 

 half blackish above ; upper margin of prothorax, spot on anterior part 

 of pleura, tubercles, tegulse and scutellum, bright ferruginous; tegulae 

 strongly pimctured; wings fairly clear, dusky at apex, nervures dark 

 brown, stigma ferruginous ; second and third submarginal cells broad ; 

 basal nervLu-e a moderate distance basad of transverso-medial ; legs 

 bright red, coxae largely black; front and middle femora at base be- 

 neath, and hind femora beneath and behind except apex, black ; spurs 

 light ferruginous; abdomen narrow-fusiform, bright red; basal half of 

 first segment black; apical margin of first four segments very narrowly 

 blackish ; second and third segments with rounded lateral yellow spots, 

 those on second much the largest; apical plate narrow, truncate, 

 feebly notched; venter bright orange-ferruginous, with the base black 

 and four narrow blackish transverse bands. 



Hab. — "Nevada"; no other particulars known. One in Coll. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. It does not seem probable that this is the male of 

 A^. rhodalis. 

 Nomada schwarzi, sp. n. 



o . — Length 8^ mm.; allied to hcUa and cuneata, but distinguished 

 by the characters given in the table. Antennae bright red, scape and 

 first four joints of flagellum partly black above; mesothorax very 

 coarsely punctured, with the lateral margins and two stripes on disk, 

 dark dull red; scutellum and postscutellum rather bright red; pleura 

 with a red spot in front, and dot beneath wings; tubercles, tegulas 

 and narrow upper border of prothorax red; legs red, blackened basally; 

 wings clear, with clouded apex; stigma dark reddish-brown; basal 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



nervure a fair distance basad of transverso-medial ; abdomen rather 

 light red, nearly basal half of first segment black ; large yellow marks on 

 second and third segments elongated and pointed mesad; apical seg- 

 ments suffused with blackish; apex deeply emarginate; venter red, 

 black at base, and with suffused blackish markings. 



9 . — Length about 8 mm.; red; mesothorax with one black stripe; 

 first abdominal segment with a pair of lateral black stripes diverging 

 from the middle of the base, each deeply notched anteriorly; second 

 submarginal cell very broad above. General characters much as 9 

 cuneata (see table). 



Hab. — Veta Pass, Colo., June 28, "collection C. V. Riley"; in Na- 

 tional Museum. This, the type specimen, is a male. Two females in 

 the National Museum are assigned here on the basis of probabilities; 

 they are from the Baker collection, marked Colorado, number 1,871. 



Nomada schwarzi contractula, subsp. n. 



c?. — Length 8 mm.; distinguished principally by the characters 

 given in the table. The greater part of the mesothorax is red, and the 

 pleura has a large transverse red patch. The abdomen is broad, dark 

 red and distinctly punctured. Stigma dark; third submarginal cell 

 with the outer bend low down; apical plate of abdomen only very 

 feebly notched. 



Hab.— Beulah, N. M., July, 1902. 1 d". (Cockerell.) Perhaps a 

 distinct species. 



Nomada perplexa, Cresson . 



Mr. Viereck has examined Cresson's types, and finds they represent a 

 Gnathias 8 mm. long; the scape in front dark ferruginous to dark brown 

 and blackish, pale ferruginous or yellowish-ferruginous at base; no 

 yellow spots on fifth abdominal segment ; basal nervure a considerable 

 distance basad of transverso-medial; third antennal joint little or dis- 

 tinctly less than fourth. The species is a rather obscure but perfectly 

 valid one. I have before me numerous specimens collected by Mr. 

 Mereck, marked Lehigh Gap, Pa., males June 25 to 29, females July 1 

 to 21 (some of the latter collected by Mr. Rehn); Montgomery county, 

 Pa., June 21, ? ; Castle Rock, Pa., July 18, 1901, 9 . 



Nomada rhodalis, sp. n. 



9. — Length about 8^ mm.; robust, abdomen broad-oval, shining; 

 whole insect bright ferruginous, except a few black markings, viz., a 

 stripe on prothorax, mark between wings and.scutellum, and a spot in 

 front of and above middle coxse; no black at base of abdomen; palpi 

 darkened, with conspicuous light rings at the sutures; face broad; 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



antennse long, third joint scarcely shorter than fourth; tegula? ferru- 

 ginous, conspicuously punctured; wings dusky, especially at tips; 

 second subniarginal cell scarcely broader above than third ; basal nerv- 

 ure a long distance basad of transverso-medial ; nervures very dark; 

 stigma small, ferruginous; first ventral segment of abdomen with a 

 longitudinal black patch. 



Hob. — Nevada (no details known). One in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 

 Nomada bella, Cresson. 



,V. hella was based on the male; Robertson in 1902 stated that A^. 

 maculata was the female of the same species. So far as I am able^to 

 make out, this is correct; and jNIr. Viereck, after examining Cresson's 

 t^'pes, writes: "I think hella is very likely the other sex of maculata." 

 As I have indicated in the table, the species presents some variation, 

 which is partly geographical; but I am not at present able to distin- 

 guish more than one species in the material studied. It is curious that 

 the females from the northwest, where one expects melanism, are paler 

 than those from the northeastern States. A'', bella flics from the latter 

 part of April, through iMay, but apparently is over by June in most 

 localities. In the series before me the males {hella, Cresson) are from 

 Philadelphia, Pa. (Viereck) ; Riverton, N. J. (Viereck) ; Nyack, N. Y. 

 (Zabriskie); New Hampshire (Baker collection, number 1,879); Polk 

 county. Wis. (Baker); Michigan (Gillette); and Baldwin, Kans. (J. C. 

 Bridwell). The females (maculata, Cresson) are from Franklinville, 

 Pa. (Fox); lichigh Gap, Pa. (Viereck); Indiana (Baker collection, 

 numbers 1,876, 1,878); New Hampshire (Baker collection); Glenora, 

 British Columbia ( Wickham) ; Corvallis, Oreg. (Cordley) ; and Olympia, 

 Wash. (Kincaid). It seems remarkable that a species found in In- 

 diana and Kansas should fail to occur in ^Ir. Robertson's district in 

 Illinois, but he has never met with it. This fact illustrates the danger 

 of error in making broad statements about distribution. I find I 

 have a single male collected by Prof. Kincaid at Seattle, Wash., June 

 25, 1897. This is much later than any of the dates on eastern speci- 

 mens, but the insect appears to be a genuine hella. 

 Nomada cuneata, (Rob.)- 



In 1899 {Entomologist, p. 156) I commented on the geographical 

 difference in size in the so-called N. maculata, and just before Robert- 

 son's recent paper appeared I had concluded that the small form ought 

 to be separated. I am therefore very willing to recognize N. cuneata 

 as valid. It does not always live apart from A^. hella {maculata), but 

 invades the territory of the latter in Kansas and Pennsylvania. N. 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



cuneata flies during April, May and the early part of June, its flight 

 being coincident with that of hella. My latest date is June 5, Edge 

 Hill, Pa. The localities represented are: Edge Hill, Pa., 9 (Viereck); 

 Ashbourne, Pa., c? (Viereck); Montgomery county. Pa., 9 (Viereck); 

 Lehigh Gap, Pa., ? (Viereck); New York State (Baker collection, 9 , 

 No. 1,868; 6", No. 2,168) ; Indiana (Baker collection, ? , Nos. 2,002 

 and 2,040; 6^, No. 1,876); Illinois, 6^ (Robertson; sent j^ears ago as 

 maculata); Lincoln, Neb. (Bruner) ; Cedar Bluffs, Neb. (Bruner). 

 Six males from Polk county. Wis., and one from New York State, 

 all from the Baker collection, represent forms differing from N. 

 cuneata, as is indicated in the table given above. They appear to 

 constitute two geographical races, perhaps species; but as they are 

 reddened by cj^anide, and I have no females which belong to them, I 

 leave them without names. 



Nomada albofasciata, Smith. 



I have before me one male from Polk county. Wis. (Baker), and one 

 from New York State (Baker coU., 2,168), both from the National 

 Museum. The species was described from Canada. It is separable 

 from cuneata by the bands of the abdomen being creamy- white instead 

 of yeUow, but it is extremely closely allied. Wlien the abdomen is 

 retracted, the bands on the third and following segments become partly 

 or wholly hidden. The length of the insect is 6^ to 7 mm. 



Nomada louisianse, sp. n. 



9. — Length 8 mm.; dark red; antennse entirely red, third joint 

 nearly as long as fourth ; a short keel between antennse ; some black 

 between ocelli and between antennse; mesothorax with a single black 

 band; metathorax with a black diamond; apical margin of wings 

 strongly dusky; stigma dark reddish-brown, nerviures fuscous; abdo- 

 men without spots or bands of yellow ; four black spots at sides of base 

 of first segment; pygidium shovel-shaped. Known from N. cuneata 

 by its narrower, more cylindrical abdomen, and narrower face. 



Hah. — Louisiana (Baker coll.. No. 2,420), one in National Museum, 

 With regard to the Bakerian numbers, it is well to state that they repre- 

 sent particular lots of specimens, captured at the same place, but not 

 particular species. Hence different species often bear the same 

 number. 



Nomada carolinae, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about 7^ mm. ; red ; region above antennse, region about 

 ocelli, broad band on mesothorax, broad band on metathorax, much of 

 prothorax, and region between wings and middle and hind coxse, all 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



black; cheeks black behind; abdomen long-oval, extreme base and 

 more of sides of first segment black; second segment with large sub- 

 pyriform (pointing mesad) yellow spots; spots on third segment pres- 

 ent, but concealed by the retraction of the segment; antenna? wholly 

 red, third segment almost as long as fourth ; postscutellum dull orange; 

 legs clear red, not blackened, except that the coxse are largely black; 

 general color of insect conspicuously lighter than in N. cuneata. Lat- 

 eral black mesothoracic bands may be more or less indicated anteriorly. 



Hab. — North Carolina, collector unknown. Two in Coll. of Acad. 

 Xat. Sci. Phila. Perhaps only a race of cuneata. but obviously different 

 in appearance from any in my large series of the latter, and also from 

 a very different region. 



The remaining species discussed in this paper have simple mandibles.. 

 The two following are comparatively large red and yellow species, super- 

 ficially resembling N. zehrata and A^. vincta. 

 Nomada coloradensis, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about 11 muL; general build as in zebrata, except that 

 the head and thorax are somewhat smaller; head, thorax and legs 

 bright ferruginous without yellow, and with little l^lack ; abdomen fer- 

 ruginous, sculptured as in zebrata but less closely, leaving the surface 

 shining; first segment with black at extreme base, half-way along 

 sides, and in basal sulcus, but no yellow; second and third segments 

 with very large pyriform bright yellow marks pointed mesad; fourth 

 segment with a yellow band, broadly emarginate in the middle ante- 

 riorly, and large lateral yellow spots; fifth segment with two yellow 

 spots; venter ferruginous, immaculate. Labrum with a slight median 

 longitudinal carina, and a small red tubercle on apical margin; facial 

 quadrangle square; a very little black about ocelli and on inner side of 

 antennal sockets; cheeks all red; antenna? entirely red, third and 

 fourth joints subequal, flagellum robust; mesothorax very densely 

 punctured, with no black band; metathorax with a black band, broken 

 on apical part of enclosure; enclosure very large; sides of metathorax 

 somewhat angled, not hairy (in vincta they are also bare, but in zebrata 

 covered with pale golden hairs); tegulse shining, rather sparsely punc- 

 tured; wings strongly yellowish, stigma ferruginous, nervures ferru- 

 ginous on basal half of wing, fuscous on apical; second submarginal 

 cell very broad above, third with its outer margin bent almost to a 

 right angle, its apex greatly narrowed; basal nervui'e a moderate dis- 

 tance basad of transverso-medial ; hind tibia^ rough with black bristles; 

 pygidium broad shovel-shaped. 



Hab. — Colorado, bearing numbers 566 and 34; no further particulars 




G04 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



kno-\\Ti to me. One in Coll. of Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. I suspect that 

 it came from Prof. Gillette. 



Nomada wheeleri, sp. n. 



£ . — T.ength 9^ mm.; robust, red, yellow and black; eyes purplish- 

 gray; face slighth' narrowed below; ctypeus (except lateral spots), 

 labrum, basal half of mandibles, anterior orbits broad below and ex- 

 tending more narrowl}^ to top of eyes, and basal third of posterior orbits 

 narrowly, all red ; other parts of head black ; front and vertex with very 

 coarse punctures; labrum closelj^ and coarsely punctured, with about 

 four mmute red denticles on middle of anterior margin; antennae rather 

 short, third joint longer than fourth; first three joints bright red, the 

 rest darker, the apical half of the flagellum thickened and quite dusky; 

 mesothorax with dense extremely large punctures, its color dull red, 

 the anterior margin narrowly black, and a black median band on its 

 posterior two-fifths ; the prominent upper margin of prothorax, tuber- 

 cles, the strongly bilobed scutellum except its median suture, and the 

 postscutellum, yellow; pleura red with a yellow spot; metathorax 

 entirely black, the enclosm-e short, the sides heavih' bearded with yel- 

 lowish-white hair ; tegulse red, large ; ^^-ings nearly clear, dusky on apical 

 margin, stigma small, ferruginous, nervures brown; second and 

 third submarginal cells of equal breadth above, third scarcely angled 

 outwardly; basal nervure meeting transverso-cubital ; legs red, an- 

 terior coxae with an apical point, hardh' to be called a spine ; abdomen 

 closely and minutely but distinctly punctured; first segment red, 

 clouded with black at base, and with two large transverse yellow 

 marks; second red, almost covered by a dull yellow band which is 

 very' deeply and broadly emarginate in front; third yellow with the 

 apical margin fuscous ; fourth yellow, black at extreme base, and very 

 narrowly fuscous on apical margin; fifth yellow; pygidium rounded 

 at end; venter ferruginous, ^^•ith a semilunar yellow mark on fourth 

 segment. 



Hah. — Texas {Bel f rage). One in U. S. National Museum. Xamed 

 after Prof. W, 'M. Wheeler, who has made such valuable contributions 

 to the knowledge of Texan entomology'. The densely (though very 

 coarsety) punctured pleura, the markings of the face and abdomen, 

 and the less robust form, distinguish this from A', helfragei, to which it 

 is allied. The species belongs to Micronomada (syn. Cephen, Rob.), 

 and it is also allied to .V. fervida, Smith, which occurs in Florida and 

 Georgia. 




l'.K)3.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



Nomada lehighensis, sp. n. 



V . — Length about 7^ mm.; ferruginous; area just above antennae, 

 region of ocelli, cheeks behind, anterior margin of mesothorax and three 

 longitudinal bands (the lateral ones more or less evanescent), band 

 on metathorax and broad band from wings to middle coxae, all black; 

 first segment of abdomen with lateral wedge-shaped blackish marks, 

 but not black across the middle ; second and third segments with dis- 

 tinct but small and roimd lateral yellow spots; fourth with sometimes 

 four ^•ery small and indistinct yellow spots; fifth \^•ithout yellow; ven- 

 ter ferruginous, darker in the middle, but immaculate. Mandil)les 

 simple; lower corners of face with a small yellow spot, not always 

 evident; head broad, facial quadrangle a little broader than long; an- 

 tennae entirelv ferruginous; fourth joint distinctly but not greatly 

 longer than third, and a very little shorter than twelfth; tegulae fer- 

 ruginous, punctured; legs red, the basal parts suffused with blackish; 

 Avings rather dusky, especially on apical margin; stigma very dark fer- 

 ruginous, nervures fuscous ; second submarginal cell with its lower inner 

 angle produced; basal nervure a short distance basad of transverso- 

 medial; pygidial plate with gently rounded sides, the apex subacute. 



cJ^. — Similar to that of N. sayi, Rob.; but face broader; the slender 

 scape ferruginous in front ; third antennal joint nearly as long as fourth, 

 A\hich is shorter than in sayi; basal nervure very near to transverso- 

 niedial (far basad of it in scnji) ; abdomen darker, with the 3'ellow spots 

 not pointed mcsad ; whole insect less slender. 



Hab.—I.ehigh Cap, Pa., July 1, 1897, 9 ; July 11, 1900, 9 ; July 21, 

 1902, 9 ; June 29, 1901, 9 ; June 25, 1901, 9 , cJ' ; June 30. 1901. d". 

 Collected by ^Ir. ^'iereck. In one female the abdomen is without 

 yellow spots; in another there is only one black band on the meso- 

 thorax. 



A'', lehighensis is a good deal like the Californian X. atrofrontata, 

 Ckll., but among other differences the mesothorax of the latter is 

 much more finely punctured. From the Oregonian A', ultima, Ckll., 

 N. lehighensis is easih' separated by its yellowish-red abdomen, with 

 none of the coppery luster of ultima. 



Nomada sayi, Rob. 



I have an Illinois male from Mr. Robertson. ^Mr. Mercck has taken 

 the species as follows: Clementon, N. J., June 2, 1901, 9 ; Edge Hill, 

 Pa., females, May 20, 1900, April 28 and May, 5, 1901; Philadelphia, 

 Pa., June 22, 1899, 9 ; Ashbourne, Pa., May 24, 1901, three males (all 

 with scutellum red) and one female. It appears from these dates that 

 N. sayi flies earlier than N. lehighensis. 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug.. 



Nomada valida, Smith. 



? .—Length 8 to 9 mm. ; mandibles simple; abdomen dark chestnut- 

 red, basal half of first segment black right across; second submarginal 

 cell broad above ; basal nervure a very little basad of transverso-medial, 

 or sometimes a fair distance basad. I find the markings just as de- 

 scribed by Smith, except that only the ver}- narrow hind margin of 

 the clypeus is black. 



I I'ecognize N. valida in three females from the Baker collection, iii 

 the National Museum. Two are labelled "Canada, 1872," and the 

 other "New York, 1868." The scutellum is convex, bristly, but very 

 slightly bilobed. The fourth antennal joint is a little longer than the 

 third. The insect is evidently close to N. simplex, Rob., but it lacks 

 the spots on the abdomen. N. valida is separated from .V. corvalli- 

 se7isis by its larger size, distinct parapsidal grooves and dark bristles 

 on scape; from N. darkii by its much darker coloration, and smaller 

 wings. It is, however, a close ally of .V. darkii, and when specimens 

 have been collected right across the northern part of the continent, 

 it may be necessary to reduce darkii to subspecific rank. 



A male marked "Canada, 1872," may belong to valida. It is 9^ 

 mm. long; face silvery-hairy; clypeus, supraclypeal mark and rapidly 

 narrowing lateral marks, yellow ; scape rather stout, yellow tinged with 

 red, flagellum entirely red ; thorax very dark, but the bifid red marks on 

 mesothorax are faintly indicated; very narrow hind margin of pro- 

 thorax yello^vish; scutellum and postscutellimi mainly red; pleura 

 with an obscure dull yellow spot, and a smaller and more obscure red 

 one higher up; metathorax all black, with coarse vermiform rugse at 

 base; scutellum more prominent than in $ , and Avith white instead of 

 fuscous hairs; tegulae pale yellowish-testaceous (deep red in $ ); third 

 submarginal cell as broad above as second (narrower in ? ) ; basal 

 nervure a fair distance basad of transverso-medial; abdomen ferrugi- 

 nous, basal half of first segment black; first segment with a rather 

 narrow interrupted yellow band; second with a ver}^ broad yellow 

 band, having only a linear median interruption; remaining segments 

 with yellow bands, more or less notched behind laterally; apical plate 

 deeply notched; venter dark ferruginous, with a large yellow spot at 

 apex. The labrum is yellow, with a minute red denticle in the middle. 

 The legs are red, the hind femora black beneath. The dentate labrum 

 of this male allies it with N. armata, H.-S., which European species 

 is said to occur, like valida, in Nova Scotia. 



The large size of this male ("Canada, 1872") and the characters of 

 the wings, tegulae, metathorax, etc., make its identit}^ with valida so 




Pleura with much red. 

 Base of metathorax rugulose. 



1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



questionable that I believe least confusion will occur if it goes for the 

 present under another name. It may be called N. armatella, sp. n. 



There is a second species in Canada (Baker coll., No. 2,174, in Na- 

 tional Museum) which I had at first confused with N. armatella; the 

 male is about 10 mm. long, and differs from armatella thus: 



N. armatella, sp. n. ^V. hethunei, sp. n. 



Denticle on labrum evident. Denticle rudimentary. 



Posterior orbits black. Posterior orbits broadly red. 



Front and vertex black; a red spot Front and vertex largel}^ red. 

 above each eye. 



Scape cylindrical. Scape swollen. 



Third antennal joint longer than | Third joint broader than long, 

 broad. 



Pleura with hardly any red. 



Base of metathorax coarsely wrin- 

 kled. 



]\Ietathorax entirely black. \ ^Metathorax with four red spots. 



Basal nervure considerably basad | Basal nervure very little basad. 

 of transverso-medial. j 



Yellow band on second abdominal [ Band broadl}^ interrupted, 

 segment with only a linear inter- i 

 ruption. 



Apical plate v&'y riarrow. I Apical plate very broad. 



The characters italicized are important; the others may not have 

 specific value. N. hethunei is named after the Rev. C. J. S. Bethune. 



Another species with a denticle on the labrum is N. depressa, Cresson, 

 if I have correctly identified as such a specimen collected by Mr. 

 Viereck at Lehigh Gap, Pa., June 30, 1897. It is a female, and has the 

 large semilunar depression on the fifth abdominal segment as described 

 in depressa. It is about 9 mm, long. The second transverso-cubital 

 nervure is incomplete in both wings. An allied species, described 

 below, occius in Oregon. 



Two males collected by ]\Ir. Viereck at Philadelphia, Pa., May 2, 

 1897, have the mesothorax marked with dark red just as in N'. arma- 

 tella, and also possess a very rudimentary spine on the labrum, only 

 visible because of its reddish color. I was almost ready to think these 

 a varietal form of armatella, until I observed that they had bidentate 

 mandibles, and belonged to Gnathias. As a matter of fact, they are a 

 varietal form of N. bella, parallel to the variety of N. perplexa cited in 

 the table of Gnathias. Typical bella also has a minute spine on the 

 labrum, or rather a rudiment of a spine. 



Nomada volatilis. Smith, described from Canada, is, I believe, a form 

 of N. bella. We are not informed whether it has bidentate mandibles, 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [All 



o-> 



and I thought at first it might be iV. armatella; but tlie following char- 

 acters indicate hella rather than annatella: Supraclypeal mark absent; 

 antennae fulvous beneath (nothing said about yellow on scape) ; tegulse 

 ferruginous; abdominal bands interrupted; apical margins of ventral 

 abdominal segments fusco-ferruginous. 

 Nomada hoodiana, sp. n. 



$ . — Length about 9 mm. ; ferruginous-red, the color of the abdomen 

 bright; facial quadrangle square; cheeks with the anterior half red 

 and the posterior haK black; a little blackish about bases of antennaj, 

 sending lines downward to middle of sides of clypeus ; ocelli on a small 

 black patch; antennae entirely red, except for a small black mark on 

 scape above; third joint subequal with fourth; mesothorax with one 

 black band; tubercles rather coppery, surrounded by black; en- 

 closure of metathorax entirely red, minutely wrinkled at base; tegulae 

 3^ellowish-f erruginous ; wings dusky along the veins ; stigma dark red- 

 dish; second submarginal cell broad, third greatly narrowed above; 

 basal nervure far basad of transverso-medial ; legs red ; first four fem- 

 ora with a black mark at base beneath; hind femora with much 

 black suffusion beneath ; abdomen of the comparatively long and nar- 

 row type; base of first segment black, with four reddish spots, the an- 

 terior edge of the l^lack concave, and wavy in the middle; second seg- 

 ment with small and obscure suffused yellow lateral spots; fifth seg- 

 ment with a large semilunar velvety depression; pygidium very broad; 

 venter red, a black fish-tail mark on basal segment. 



Hab. — Mt. Hood, Ore.; collector unknown, (Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila.). The depression on the fifth segment is nearly twice as wide 

 as in the Pennsjdvania species I take for A^. depressa. 



The species in the following table all have the abdomen strongly 

 punctured, the punctures round and distinct. They belong to Micro- 

 nomada and Centrias. Those marked (D.) are placed from the 

 description, specimens not being available: 



Females. 



Abdomen red, without light bands, 1. 



Abdomen with light bands, 2. 



1. Flagellum clear red martinella, Ckll. 



riagellum strongly dusky americana, Kirby, 



2. Mesothorax red, basal half of abdomen at least largely red, . 3. 

 ^lesothorax black, with little, if any, red 4. 



3. Basal half of abdomen bright red; apical half with white bands, 



rnhicunda, Oliv. 

 Abdomen heavily marked with yellow, the two halves not con- 

 spicuously different, icheeleri, Ckll. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



4. Basal half of abdomen not red, 5. 



First abdominal segment red; clypeus red, lateral face-marks 



white snowii, Cr.{D.). 



Abdomen red with white bands, ridingsii, Cr.{D.). 



5. Mesothorax with obscure reddish stripes; size large, abdomen very- 



broad, erigeronis, Rob. 



Mesothorax without any red; size smaller, abdomen not so 

 broad, 6. 



6. Legs largely yellow ; clypeus j'ellow, .... /ormw/a, Viereck. 

 Legs red, 7. 



7. Mesothorax with the punctures well separated, 8. 



Mesothorax with the punctures extremely dense, .... 9. 



S. Markings creamy- white, vierecki, Ckll. 



Markings lemon-yellow, putnami, Cr. (D.). 



9. Clypeus red, ... modcsta var. vegana, Ckll. 



Clypeus black, 10. 



10. Metathorax with yellow spots modesta, Cr. 



Metathorax without yellow spots, 11. 



11. Lateral face-marks white, heiligbrodtii, Cr. (D.). 



Lateral face-marks yellow, 12. 



12. Punctures of mesothorax smaller, texana, Cr. 



Punctures of mesothorax larger, 1,3. 



13. riagellum black beneath, . . . modesta var. rivertonensis, Ckll. 

 Flagellum red beneath neomexicana. Ckll. 



Males. 



Apex of abdomen entire; supraclypeal mark surrounded by black, 



lippice, Ckll. 

 Apex of abdomen notched, though sometimes feebly, .... 1. 



1. Flagellum with a light median area, on each side of which is 



black, . . . . ' 2. 



Flagellum ordinary, not so colored, 6. 



2. Tegulae pale yellow or whitish 3. 



Tegulae deep ferruginous, 5. 



3. No supraclypeal mark, scitiformis , Ckll. 



Supraclypeal mark present, 4. 



4. First abdominal segment largeh^ red, without light markings, 



sophiarum. Ckll. 

 First abdominal segment black, with a narrowl}^ interrupted cream- 

 colored band scita, Cr. 



5. Ground color of abdomen nearly all red, 



americana var. dacotana, Ckll. 

 Ground color of abdomen red basally, otherwise black, 



americana, Kirby. 



6. Metathorax with yellow spots, modesta, Cr. 



Metathorax without yellow spots, 7. 



7. Size larger; apex of abdomen very deeply emarginate; no su]jra- 



clypeal mark crassula,Q]<\\. 



Size smaller; apex of abdomen not so deeply emarginate, . 8. 

 39 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



8. Ventral surface of abdomen with two light bands, .... 9. 

 Ventral surface of abdomen dark, T\ath at most minute hght 



marks, 10, 



9. Markings yellow, crucis, Ckll. 



Markings white, vierecki, Ckll. 



10. Labrum with a black spot; wings nearly clear, with a dark apical 



cloud, neomexicana, Ckll. 



I.abrum without a black spot ; wings very dark, 



tiftonensis, Ckll. 



Nomada modesta, Cresson. 



Originally described from Maine and Illinois. Robertson does not 

 find it near Carlinsville, 111., however. The specimens before me 

 are from Riverton, N. J., both sexes (Viereck); Dakota, one $ ; Colo- 

 rado, one d' . The Riverton specimens were taken August 3. A 

 female from Anglesea, N. J., was taken by Mr. Viereck, August 8, 1901. 



Nomada modesta var. rivertonensis, n. var. 



This is reaUy a mutation, lacking the spots on the metathorax; a 

 specific character in other cases. One 9 , Riverton, N. J., August 

 ( Viereck) . 



Nomada modesta var. vegana, n. var. 



?. — Rather small; clypeus ferruginous. Apparently a geographi- 

 cal race. Las Vegas, N. M., July 12, 1899 (A. Garlick); Colorado 

 Springs, Colo., middle of July (Cockerell). The subgenus Microno- 

 mada was founded on this form. 



Nomada tiftonensis, sp. n. 



6 . — Length about 7 mm.; in sculpture and markings like a small 

 modesta, but lateral face-marks receding from orbits at end; meta- 

 thorax aU black; hind femora black behind except at base and apex; 

 and ventral surface of abdomen without yellow marks. Third antennal 

 joint longer than fourth; second submarginal ceU verj^ broad above. 

 One specimen has the supraclypeal mark subobsolete. 



Hah. — Tifton, Ga., collector unknown. Two in Coll. of Acad. Xat. 

 Sci. Phila. 

 Nomada crassula, sp. n. 



^ . — Length about 9 mm. ; black with yellow markings, general ap- 

 pearance like modesta, but abdomen broader, and sculpture of meso- 

 thorax and vertex considerably coarser. Face-marks pale yellow, lat- 

 eral marks shaped as in modesta, but there is no supraclypeal mark, and 

 a band of black runs do\\Ti each side of clypeus, while there is a black 

 triangle, cutting into the lateral marks, on the lower part of the anterior 

 orbital margin. Labrum densely pubescent; antennae as in modesta, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



except that the scape is slender, punctured and ferruginous; tegulse 

 ferruginous with a yellow spot; pleura black with an oval yellow mark 

 on posterior part; yellow collar, tubercles, scutellum and postscutellum 

 as in modesta; median depression of scutellum ferruginous ; metathorax 

 without yellow spots, its pubescence very short and conspicuously 

 plumose; wings dusky, very dark at apex; stigma ferruginous, nerv- 

 ures rather pale fuscous; second submarginal cell very broad above; 

 third narrow, its outer margin gently curved, greatly nan-owed to mar- 

 ginal; basal nervure meeting transverso-medial ; legs red; hind femora 

 black behind and beneath except at extreme apex and base ; hind tibiae 

 with a large yellow apical spot; hind coxse black with a yellow mark; 

 anterior coxae black with a red apical spot, and long spines ; abdomen 

 black; apical half of first segment fuscous, with an entire yellov.- band, 

 which is indented on each side in front ; second segment with a 

 broad yellow band ; third and fourth with narrow bands, interrupted 

 in the middle, and deeply indented (or interrupted) on each side 

 posteriorly; fifth with a narrow yellow band, and lateral spots; apical 

 plate broad, black, very deeph^ notched; venter entirely black. 



Hah. — Louisiana, one (No. 2,563) in U. S. National ^lusemu. The 

 third antennal joint is longer than the fourth. The following Cres- 

 sonian species have been examined by ]\Ir. Mercck, and found to 

 have, like N. era ssula,' the third joint longer than the fourth, and the 

 basal nervure meeting transverso-cubital : belfragei, zehrata, ridingsii, 

 modesta, cubensis, krugii, tibialis, limata and scita. The same is true 

 also of N. formula. 



NOMADULA, subg. n. 



Type N. americana, ''Kirby," Robertson, Ckll. Distinguished by 

 the peculiar male antennae, the two sexes quite differentl}' colored, 

 the strongly pmictured abdomen, and the spined anterior coxae. In- 

 cludes N. americana, N. martinella, N. scita, N. scitiformis, N. erythro- 

 chroa and .V. sophiarimi. This is a compact group, quite distinct from 

 Centrias, the type of which is A^. erigeronis. N. erythrochroa is much 

 like martinella, but larger, and with the abdomen much more finely 

 punctured, and the eyes more converging below. 



Nomada sphaerogaster, sp. n. 



2 . — Length about 8 mm. ; black and yellow, with the legs largeh' 

 red; form very broad (like erigeronis), the abdomen si:)herical seen 

 from above. The general appearance is so like iY. crassida that I 

 thought at first it might be the female of that species ; but this cannot 

 be, as the anterior coxae are not spinod. and the punctures of the abdo- 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



men, though distinct, are merely little semilunar depressions. Head 

 broad, facial quadrangle l^roader than long; scape and face with black 

 bristles; cheeks entirely black, covered with grayish hair; mandibles 

 except tips, labrum (which has a slight tubercle), clypeus except upper 

 part, and a transverse flame-like mark coming from the lowest part 

 of anterior orbital margin, yellowish-ferruginous; a minute red spot 

 at the summit of each eye; antennae rather long, third joint shorter 

 than fourth; flagellum thick, dark reddish (the first joint brighter), as 

 also is the scape; thorax rather abundantly clothed with dull grayish 

 hair; mesothorax entirely black, extremely closely punctured; meta- 

 thorax black, with two small yellow spots on the enclosure ; scutellum 

 with two large oval yellow spots; postscutellum black; pleura black; 

 upper edge of prothorax, tubercles and tegulse yellow; wings dusky, 

 but not extremely dark, stigma and nervures rufo-f uscous ; second sub- 

 marginal cell broad above; third very broad below, its outer margin 

 angled; basal nervure a short distance basad of transverso-medial ; 

 femora black, red at apex; tibiae and tarsi red, the tibise more or less 

 marked with yellow; abdomen black, with a broadly interrupted yel- 

 low band on first segment, a broad yellow band, not quite interrupted, 

 on second, narrowly interrupted bands (more or less notched behind 

 sublaterally) on third and fourth, and a large patch and lateral spots 

 on fifth; pygidial plate very broadly rounded at end; venter black 

 stained with red, especially on the second segment. 



Hab. — Riverton, N. J., April 22 (Viereck). Mr. Viereck finds that 

 the following Cressonian species have, like N. sphcerogaster, the basal 

 nervure a short distance basad of the transverso-medial, and the third 

 antennal joint shorter than the fourth: accepta, proxima, vicina, 

 fragilis, dilucida, lihata, parata, crotchii and crudelis. 

 Nomada electella, sp. n. 



9 . — Length about 7 mm., proportions ordinary; black, yellow and 

 red. Head and thorax bare, extremely coarsely rugose; head black, 

 with the clypeus, supraclypeal mark, rounded lateral face-marks not 

 going above level of clypeus, labrum (which has a strong reddish spine), 

 mandibles except tips, and a minute dot at the summit of each eye, 

 3'-ellow stained with ferruginous; antennse rather long, first three joints 

 rufous, the others dark reddish-brown, third joint very much shorter 

 than fourth; thorax black, the upper margin of prothorax, prominent 

 tubercles, scutellum and broad transverse band on pleura, yellow, the 

 last tinged with red; tegulae testaceous with a yellow spot; wings 

 dusky, stigma and nervures fuscous; second submarginal cell small 

 and narrow, narrowed almost to a point above; third broad below, its 



i 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



outer side angled ; Ijasal nervure a little basad of transverso-medial (in 

 electa, I learn from ]\Ir. "N'iereck, it is far basad, in the manner of 

 Gnathias) ; legs yellowish-ferruginous; anterior coxae with a short and 

 blunt, but very distinct, spine; abdomen shining, with minute shallow 

 pimctures, first segment impunctate ; first segment with a cloudy red- 

 dish band; second with a very broad yellow band, broadly interrupted 

 in the middle; third with a narrow^er band, the middle third of which 

 is wantuig, and which is deeply incised sublaterally behind; fourth 

 with a band which has only a linear median interruption, but sublat- 

 erally is so deeply incised in front as to be almost interrupted; fifth 

 with a very broad band, deeply incised sublaterally in front; venter 

 dark ferruginous clouded with lighter, most of the second segment 

 light. 



Hah. — Georgia, one in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, mixed with N. 

 electa, Mr. Viereck informs me. By reason of the spinecl coxae, it is 

 allied to N. denticulata, Rob. 



Nomada robertsonella, sp. n. 



9. — Length 1h mm.; bright ferruginous-red. This looks exactly 

 like A'', erythrcca and N. rhoclosoma; it differs from erythrcea by having 

 the abdomen without any coppery luster, the flagelkim more slender, 

 the third submarginal cell narrowed to a point above, and the second 

 submarginal greatly produced at its lower inner angle. It differs from 

 A', rhodosoma bj' having the third antennal joint only about half the 

 length of the fourth, the third submarginal cell narrowed to a point 

 above, and in the absence of a dark mark on the metathoracic enclosure. 

 The basal nervure is a short distance basad of the transverso-medial; 

 the first abdominal segment is without black, but has two faint dusky 

 spots on each side of the basal half; the labrum has a distinct but small 

 tubercle. 



Hah. — Nevada, one in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., named after Mr. 

 Charles Robertson. N. rhodosoma, Ckll., also occurs in Nevada; a 

 single female from that State is in Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Nomada rhodosoma var. rhodosomella, var. nov. 



? . — Smaller, length about 6 mm. ; red color not so dark, more yel- 

 lowish; hindmost third of mesothorax with a black band; a black 

 stripe extending upward from region of middle coxae; a black patch 

 on each side of scutellum; no dark mark on metathoracic enclosure; 

 tegulse paler and yellower; abdomen more shining. 



Hab. — Colorado (Morrison). One in National Museum. Perhaps a 

 distinct species. I do not know the male of this form. The colors and 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



markings of the Californian male .V. rhodosoma are rather suggestive 

 of the European N'. flavoguttata (Kirby); at least, the abdomens arc 

 extremely similar, though the slender dark legs, very dark antennge, 

 reduced face-markings, and small black tegulae of flavoguttata are quite 

 different from those of rhodosoma. My material of flavoguttata is from 

 Mr. Frjese. 

 Nomada ruficornis, (L). 



A male sent by Mr. Viereck, from College Park, Md., April 10, 1898, 

 is referred to this species, as it agrees with the description; but I have 

 not been able to compare it with European specimens. 



Nomada cressonii, Rob. 



In the National !\Iuseum is a male from Indiana, with the Bakerian 

 number 1,876. 



Nomada kincaidiana, sp. n. 



9 . — Length almost 9 mm, bright ferruginous. Much lighter, and 

 with a narrower abdomen than .V. clarkii; looks like N. erythrochroa or 

 N. ruhrica; differs from erythrochroa by its minutely roughened, slightly 

 broader and darker abdomen; broader and less bilobed scutellum; 

 broader face less narrowed below ; black lines from antennae to middle 

 of sides of clypeus; smaller eyes; black patch before middle coxae, and 

 anterior coxae without distinct spines. (In erythrochroa the anterior 

 coxae have a^ ery long spines.) The basal nervure is a moderate distance 

 basad of the transverso-medial, while in ruhrica they almost meet. 

 The third and fourth antenna! joints are both considerably shorter than 

 in ruhrica. 



Hah. — Washington State, one in Coll. of Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. 

 Named after Prof. Trevor Kincaid. 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



615 



VAKIATION IN THE SNAIL-GENUS ASHMUNELLA. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



Dr. Pilsbry's interesting remarks in these Proceedings, 1903, pp. 

 193-200, prompt me to offer some observations on Ashmunella. The 

 species A. thomsoniana, with its various races or subspecies, inhabits 

 the moimtains near Santa Fe and Las Vegas, N. M., and has lately 

 been obtained in sufficient quantities to afford statistical data which 

 may be expressed in curves or polygons. On June 20, 1903, Dr. 

 M. Grabham and the present writer collected a large number of A. 

 thomsoniana cooperce on the Kin Kale Ranch, Pecos, N. M. (alt. about 

 6,700 feet), and on plotting out the curves of shell-diameter, it was 

 found that the mode for cooperce fell exactly between thomsoniana 

 proper and porterce, though there was a tendency toward a secondary 

 mode coincident with the normal mode of porterce. The following table 

 makes the facts clear, and can be converted into a series of curves by 

 any one who cares to do so: 



Ashmunella thomsoniana Varieties. 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



The Maiizanares Creek porterce represent a subvariety having the 

 basal tooth with the outer denticle large and pointed, and the inner 

 one quite rudimentar}', a mere slight swelling ; umbilicus large, broadly 

 exposing penultimate whorl ; parietal tooth strong. On the oth^r 

 hand, the Cooper's Mill tJwmsnnicma have the basal tooth bifid as in 

 fortercB, though they haA'e the small size of typical thomsonianc. 

 Whether they should be regarded as another distinct subvariety is 

 uncertain, as so few specimens of the Santa Fe Canon ihomsoniana 

 have been collected. It is to be remarked that size is not connected 

 closely with altitude, regarding the whole series together. The large 

 porterce occupies the highest altitudes in the mountains near Las ^>gas. 



A single example from the debris of the Pecos river had no basal 

 or outer denticle, and could easily have been mistaken for A. ashmuni 

 (Dall). 



Dr. Grabham and I dissected a number of the Pecos cooperoe, and 

 foimd the epiphallus with a basal cm-ve and double insertion of penis- 

 retractor; spermatheca without any bulbous swelling at end, very 

 variable in length, that of seven specimens measuring respectively, in 

 mm., 29, 35, 22, 33.5, 35, 45, 31. 



In the Pleistocene beds at Pecos, Ashmunella is represented by the 

 very distinct form I named pecosensis, but the other shells found in 

 the beds are identical with living forms, namely, Pyramidula cooperi, 

 W. G. Binney, P. cooperi depressa, Ckll.,* P. hemphUli, Newc, P. 

 shimekii, Pils.,* Succinea avara, Say,* Vitrea indentata umbilicata, 

 Singley,* Vallonia cyclophorella, Ancey, Pupa blandi, Morse, Limncea 

 humilis, Say.* Those marked with an asterisk occurred only in 

 some dark-colored beds which seem to be more recent than the red 

 beds containing A. pecosensis. High up on the bluff Dr. Grabham 

 found an apparently fossil shell of ^. t. cooperoe, more strongly ribbed 

 than the normal form, and thus tending toward pecosensis. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



EXPERIMENTS WITH ANTS INDUCED TO SWIM. 



BY ADELE M. FIELDS. 



The behavior of ants often appears to originate in mental processes,^ 

 and the myrmecologist is perpetually lured to further experiment by 

 a tantalizing expectation of ascertaining whether the cause of their 

 action be psychic. 



One afternoon in the summer of 1901 I inadvertently left, upon 

 the base of a Lubbock nest in the laboratory, a score or two of ants, 

 Stenamma jidvum, with a few of their larvse and a little damp earth. 

 Before the next noonday they had built with particles of the earth 

 what looked like a roundish hut, not more than two centimeters long, 

 with a doorway and a smoke-hole. Its outside shape was like that 

 of the interior of one of their recesses in their wild nests. They had 

 carried their larvse into it, and had thereb}' screened them from light 

 and from the wind. The air of the room was dry, and after a few 

 hours the edifice disintegrated from the evaporation of its moisture. 



These ants live under loose stones and among the roots of grasses, 

 and do not build habitations on a surface. In opening scores of their 

 nests, I have never found any similar structure. The little hut seemed 

 to be evidence of a purposeful adjustment to new conditions. 



1 In August, 1903, I left upon the bottom of a dish, surrounded by water in 

 a larger dish, about seventy Lasius latipes workers, with fifty of their tiny co- 

 coons, in two centimeters of earth, covered by a pane of orange glass ten centi- 

 meters long and eight centimeters broad. Such glass excludes, partially but 

 not whoUy, the ultra-violet light-rays always avoided by the ants. The earth 

 extended about four centimeters beyond the glass. TThere was a morsel of 

 food on the glass. 



The ants had been undisturbed and unobserved for ten daj-s, when I saw that 

 they had nearly covered their roof-glass to the depth of about two millimeters 

 with particles of earth. Manj' of the particles were lialf as long as the longest 

 of the ants, and certainly heavier than any one of them, and could not have been 

 laid on the glass without considerable effort on the part of the ants. This over- 

 laying of the glass secured darkness for the workers and the }'oung under the 

 glass; and numerous runs with exits outside the edge of the glass had been made 

 in the earth below, as is done in their wild nests under stones. 



Thinking that the presence of the food on the glass might have influenced the 

 deposit of the particles of earth, I removed the food to the end of the dish, washed 

 the glass clean and replaced it. In a few days the ants had again covered the 

 glass with like particles of earth. The work was always carried on in the night, 

 and I did not witness its performance. 



I made a similar arrangement of dishes, earth and glass for Stenamma fulvum, 

 but these ants did not overlay their semi-transparent roof. 




618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



On August 29, 1903, I placed about fifty workers and three queens 

 of this same species, with a half-teaspoonful of their pupse, upon the 

 base of the same Lubbock nest, in the same place in the same room,^ 

 hoping that they would again build a hut for their yomig during the 

 ensuing night. I had many tens of times put Stenamina julvum on 

 this board, with their nest-earth and yomig, and thej' had never 

 once escaped by swimming. The board is square, thirty-eight centi- 

 meters broad and four centimeters high. On its upper surface, 

 about a centimeter from its edge, there is a channel having a flat 

 bottom and vertical sides, two centimeters deep and from twenty- 

 six to thirty millimeters wide. When this channel is filled ^-ith 

 water an island about thirty centimeters square is formed by the 

 central portion of the board. The ants were on this island, and 

 their kind had never manifested ability to swim across the sur- 

 rounding channel. These individual ants were habitants of a nest 

 located at a considerable distance from anj^ bod}^ of water, and they 

 could have had no previous experience in swimming. I was there- 

 fore astonished on the following morning in finding that the ants, in- 

 stead of building huts for their young, were carrying it to a crevice 

 forty centimeters from the island, between the supporting table and 

 the wall of the room. Two of the queens had gone, and one queen 

 remained with a group of newly hatched callows. The labor of trans- 

 porting the callows continued all day. I was curious to see how the 

 queen would reach the crevice, as no ant travels far on any path before 

 untraversed b}^ her. As soon as the queen crossed the channel there 

 was increased excitement among the ants. Several of the larger ones 

 approached the queen, and one of them lifted her free from the edge- 

 way and carried her to the crevice. All the remaining callows and the 

 pupse were likewise carried to the crevice, and at nightfall not an ant 

 remained on the island, nor had any dead ants nor deserted pupae 

 been left in the channel. The exodus had occupied thirty hours, 



^^len crossing the channel without a burden the smallest ants 

 walked on the surface of the water. Heavier ones clawed the surface 

 with the fore feet, walked with the middle pair and trailed the hinder 

 ones. The degree of submergence greatly varied. When carr}'ing a 

 biu-den the ant swam with the legs wholly submerged, only the tarsi 

 of the hinder ones being above the surface. The antennae waved 

 constantly and progress was very slow. Ants without burdens were 

 from ten to sixty seconds in crossing the channel, while burdened ones 



^ These experiments were all m;ide in the Marine Biological Laboratory at 

 Woods Hole, Mass. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



were from one to three minutes in struggling across. Sometimes the 

 burdened swimmer became completely submerged, and when this 

 happened she abandoned the burden, which floated, while the ant 

 scrambled ashore. It was evident that the strength of the burdened 

 ants was exhausted in reaching the edgeway, though they crossed in 

 a straight Hne at right angles to the length of the channel. They had 

 chosen, as the main crossing-place, the narrowest part of the channel, 

 which was on the side of the board opposite the source of light, a 

 northern window. 



The next morning I thoroughly cleansed all parts of the board; 

 turned the narrowest part of the channel to the opposite side, the 

 northern ; replaced it on the table ; filled the channel with clean water ; 

 enclosed the board and an area half its size by a wall of plaster of Paris .^ 

 and set within the area one of my artificial nests, having an entrance 

 four millimeters wide at a distance of fifteen centimeters from the 

 board. On the island I then put some ant-food, three hundred workers, 

 twelve queens, of whom five had long been deprived of antennae, and 

 a large teaspoonful of eggs, larvae and pupae. These ants were from 

 the same colony as those that had gone to the cre^dce. The only ants 

 in the arena were those on the island. jMy preparations were completed 

 at eleven o'clock, and the first ant, a small adult worker, crossed 

 the channel at a quarter before twelve o'clock. The second ant 

 crossed, in another place, fifteen minutes later, and a third crossed 

 after another half-hour. At three o'clock four more workers and 

 three queens had crossed. The workers appeared to be seeking 

 a habitation, and the queens were roaming on the edgeway. The 

 first ant to enter the nest was a worker that chanced to find the 

 small entrance at five o'clock, when many ants were prospecting in 

 the area. Before the discovery of the dark, warm, humid interior 

 of the new nest, and up to seven o'clock, no ant had returned across 

 the channel. 



The ensuing morning, at six o'clock, the ants were transporting 

 young across the channel, mainly at its narrowest part, on the north 

 side and toward the light. The eggs, larvae and pupae were piled on 

 the south side of the island farthest from the light, and many ants were 

 covering the pile with their bodies. Rescuers ran along the edgeway, 

 or held to it with their hinder feet and stretched themselves over the 

 water, as if ^nth the purpose of securing flotsam. If they rendered 

 aid to struggling swimmers other than the queens, it was merely by 



^ For el's method of preventing the escape of ants. 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.. 



assuring them in a touch of the antenna? that the}^ were nearing a 

 foothold. 



Again, all the swimmers, with or without a burden, crossed the 

 channel at right angles to its length. The swimming ants varied in 

 length from five to seven millimeters, but the longest ones rarely re- 

 passed the channel, and the transits were' made chiefly by ants from 

 five to six millimeters long. They therefore had to S'uim at least twice 

 their length after relinquishing one shore before the}' touched the other. 

 They alwaj^s lingered long on the brink, running to and fro; entered 

 the water with much hesitation, and relinciuished the shore with delay. 

 I supplied as much water as was lost by evaporation, and kept the 

 surface of the channel nearly level with that of the island and the 

 edgeway. The concavity of the meniscus was slight, but capillarity 

 always hindered the ant in her departure at one shore and somewhat 

 accelerated her arrival at the other shore. 



]\Iy first experiments were made with a \'iew to ascertaining whether 

 the ants laid each an individual track across the water, as is always 

 done in traversing a solid. 



Test a. — I selected ants that must have crossed the water at least 

 once, because they were returning to the island, and when they had 

 released their hinder feet from the edgeway, I took, with a pipette 

 having a curved point, some drops of water from the surface of the 

 water directly in front of the swdmmer. Of thirty-one ants, twent}^- 

 one went immediately on their way to the island, and ten turned 

 back to the edgeway. The taking of the water may not have caused 

 all of the ten to turn back, since many other ants, finding the 

 struggle of crossing too great, turned back when the water was 

 mitouched. Had the ants that continued on their way had a track 

 previously laid on the water, it would probably have been destroyed 

 by my action, and the twenty-one ants would also have turned 

 back. 



Test b. — Choosing an ant that was returning to the island, while 

 she was in mid-channel, I passed a knife-blade five millimeters broad 

 several times around the ant, penetrating the water to half its depth. 

 Of ten ants thus encircled none turned back. 



Test c. — I swept the floor of the room violently, raised much dust. 

 and left the channel untouched during the ensuing twenty-four hours. 

 I then counted the ants that crossed the channel during a half-hour, 

 and found that twenty-one passages were made to the island and 

 twenty-five away from the island. The latter number included four 

 ants with burdens. With a shred of cloth I then brushed the dust 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



from the whole surface of the channel, being careful not to touch its 

 shores. I then coimted all the ants that crossed during the ensuing 

 half-hour. Twenty passages were made to the island, and twenty- 

 two were made from the island. The latter number included two bur- 

 den-bearers. The close correspondence of numbers is explained by 

 the fact that a few individuals among the ants do most of the work 

 undertaken. 



After the removal of the dust, with displacement of the particles 

 of water over the whole surface of the channel, there was among the 

 ants no action indicating either a difficulty in pursuing their routes, 

 or a necessit}' for laying new tracks across the channel. 



Test d.—I next considered only ants that had taken up a burden 

 to carry away from the island, and when I saw one of these about to 

 enter the water, I swept its surface with a little cloth broom that 

 extended nearly across the channel. Fifteen burden-bearing ants 

 crossed over water whose particles had just been disturbed to a depth 

 of several millimeters. Their course was as direct and their time 

 of crossing was as brief as that of burden-bearers whose path had 

 not been thus swept. 



These tests show that the ants did not depend on a previously laid 

 track when they crossed the water. They evidently expected to find 

 the water in the place where they had previously encountered it. 

 Each ant pursued her laid track on the wood to the edge of the channel, 

 and then orienting herself by something other than her track, she 

 crossed and picked up her track on the opposite shore. 



Bethe's well-known hypothesis, that the ants orient themselves 

 through a polarization of the scent laid down by their feet, is surely 

 inapplicable when the ants have no track, and keep to their bearings 

 without one. 



The difficulty of crossing the channel was greatly increased when the 

 ant was forced to turn herself in the water in order to pursue her 

 route, but even under this arduous strain most of the ants maintained 

 their course. 



Test e. — With a small knife-blade I swirled the water when the ant 

 was in mid-channel, so as to turn the swimmer once or more around, 

 leaving her with her head toward the shore from which she had just 

 come. The results were as follows: 



1. Of nineteen ants, without burden, on their way from the edge- 

 way to the island, fifteen turned themselves in the water and swam 

 to the island. Four failed in the effort to turn and went back to the 

 cdsewav. 




622 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



2. Of twentj-two ants, without burden, on their way from the 

 island to the edgewa}^ seventeen timied themselves in the water and 

 went to the edgewa^^ Five failed in the effort to turn and went 

 back to the island. 



3. Of five ants, with burdens, on their way from the island to the 

 edgeway, four turned themselves in the water and swam to the 

 edgeway. One, after a long struggle, landed on the island. 



4. A bm-den-bearer, on her way from the island to the edgeway, 

 was gently tm-ned aroimd by me when she was in mid-channel and 

 caused to land upon the island at her starting-point. She was mani- 

 festl}^ bewildered. Holding on to her charge, she wandered about over 

 the island for twenty minutes, then returned to the place of her landing, 

 laid down her burden, swam across the channel to the edgeway and 

 back again, picked up her bm-den, crossed the channel again and went 

 to the nest. 



Dead ants, or flecks of wood or yarn of the same size as an ant, when 

 cast upon the water and turned by its swirling in the same way as 

 that in which I tiu'ned the ants, did not revert to their former positions. 

 The volition of the ant, not the force of the water, was the cause of 

 the semi-revolution made by the ant in turning back upon her course. 

 She can orient herself upon trackless water, as well as upon a tracked 

 solid, but in either case her environment must have been previously 

 explored. 



I then undertook tests showing whether the ant could orient herself 

 when removed from the shortest line between the end of her path on 

 the one shore and its beginning on the other shore. 



Test f. — When the ant was on her wa}- to the island, and in mid- 

 channel, I placed the nozzle of a bulb-syringe at a distance from the 

 swimmer and very gentty drew the water and the ant several centi- 

 meters out of her line of crossing and in the direction of the length 

 of the chamiel, without changing the direction of the ant's body. 

 Of twenty-eight ants thus drawn awaj' from their position, all gave 

 marked signs of bewilderment. Some ceased for a long time from 

 swimming; some made a complete reA'olution sidewise; some 

 plunged deeper; some swam up and down the channel. That 

 they had lost their bearings was as evident as if they had been 

 upon a solid, although their movements were more limited in range. 

 Twelve of these ants finally landed on the island and fourteen 

 landed on the edgewa^^ 



Of five other ants crossing with burdens from the island to the 

 edgeway, all were similarly bewildered by being drawn away from 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



position, and were many minutes in reaching shore. Three of them 

 landed on the island and two of them landed on the edgeway. 



Dead ants or flecks of wood or yarn, subjected to the same condi- 

 tions, did not behave as did the ants, and made no similar movements. 

 Test g. — When an ant was returning to the island, and was in mid- 

 channel, I pushed the water with the cloth broom, so that the swinuner 

 would be borne on the water to a distance of a centimeter or two off 

 the line by which she would have crossed if the water had remained 

 untouched, but keeping the axis of the ant's body parallel to that 

 line. Of nine ants thus moved five went on to the island and four 

 turned back to the edgeway. The evidences of bewilderment were 

 much less marked than when the ants were drawn to a distance of 

 several centimeters from their position. 



It is plain that the ants did not orient themselves from their own 

 track where no track existed. Far less of manipulation than was 

 spent upon the water will destro}' the track of these ants upon a solid. 

 They must have traversed the distance across the channel depending 

 for their orientation on something other than their immediate foot- 

 prints. Their lesser bewilderment when they were moved a lesser 

 distance from their position, indicates that they orient themselves 

 by something that is not far removed from them. This may be the 

 remembered odor of objects at very short distances one from another, 

 recognized for guidance from point to point, as is supposed b}^ Forel. 



The ants gave no indication that they had an intellectual concep- 

 tion of the island on which they spent many days, nor of its surround- 

 ing chamiel, whose edgeway they seemed to everj-^here explore. 

 The}^ gave no sign of an idea that if they crossed the water at any 

 point they could reach a solid and their destination. They were 

 manifestly guided by what was very minute in size and very near in 

 position. But these minute things must be remembered, since the 

 ant rightly orients herself by them after absences of considerable length. 



The cjueens were shoved off the island by the workers. They 

 drifted rather than swam to the edgeway, were hauled out by waiting 

 workers and carried by them to the nest. Many of the callows were 

 carried all the way from the island to the nest, while others followed 

 adult workers, all the time touching the leader with the antennae. 

 Occasionally three ants crossed thus in file. 



On the morning of September 9, ten days after the ants had been 

 placed on the island, only one queen and seven workers remained 

 there. All the five cjueens without antennse had been transported 

 to the nest, as had all the young. Xo loss of life or of young had oc- 




624 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



currecl, with the exception of about twenty newly hatched callows that 

 had succumbed to the adverse conditions attending their hatching.* 



* I append an irrelevant note concerning an abnormal form, uncommon in 



my ant-nests. 



On August 25, 1903, I found, in one of my artificial nests of Stenamma fulvum, 

 a recently hatched gynandromorphic ant, bilaterally asymetrical. The size, 

 form, color and wings on the left side were those of the normal male, while the 

 right side was in all respects like that of a normal worker. 



Regarding such abnormal insects, Boveri (Ueber Mehrpolige Mitosen ah Mittel 

 zur Anahjze des ZeUkerns, 1902) presents the hypothesis that the first cleavage 

 of the egg, marking the future axis of the body, occurred previous to fertilization; 

 that the spermatozoan then entered one blastomere, producing on that side 

 the female form, while the other blastomere developed parthogenetically into 

 the male form. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 625 



October 6. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



The Curators, Secretaries and Librarian reported on the work of 

 the Academy since the last meeting. 



The deaths of Joseph P. Lesley, June 2, and Charles A. Blake, 

 June 24, members; Carl Gegenbauer, June 18, and Augustus R. 

 Grote, September 8, correspondents, were annoimced. 



Note on Crotalus scutulatus Kenn. — ^Ir. A. E. Brown stated that in 

 a review of the species of North American snakes, published in 1901 

 by the Academy, he had considered Crotalus scutulatus Kenn. to be a 

 synonym of C. atrox B. and G. Lately the receipt of a living example 

 from Pecos, Texas, had convinced him that they are distinct. C. 

 scutulatus has the scales on the upper surface of the head larger than in 

 most Nearctic rattlesnakes, there being but two scales between the 

 supraorbitals in front, and three behind. Two or three rows below 

 the suborbitals. The rostral is triangular, sharply emarginate and 

 acuminate above. Twenty-three rows of scales. The specimen is 

 ciuriously intermediate in plan of markings between C. atrox and 

 C. confluentus. It has the strongly contrasted black tail-bands of 

 the former, while elsewhere the dorsal spots are much like those of 

 C. confluentus in shape, in width of separation and in turning to cross- 

 bands on the hinder half of the body. The oblique dark streak below 

 the eye is intermediate both in breadth and direction, and on top of 

 the head the only distinct marking is a black blotch on the prefrontals, 

 the well-defined pattern of C. confluentus being absent. 



Kennicott and Cope both regarded this species as nearer to atrox 

 than appears to be true. It is abmidantly distinct and there is no 

 need for a trinomial. C. atrox sometimes presents enlarged head 

 scales, but never the dorsal spots turning to cross-bars posteriorly. C. 

 confluentus, on the other hand, is wholly different in its markings on 

 head and tail. In its head scales the present species departs from both 

 in the direction of C. molossus, from which it is otherwise most 

 unlike. 



C. scutulatus is known from northern Mexico, Arizona, and in Texas 

 only from Pecos and, as reported by Mr. Boulenger, from Duval county. 

 It is therefore Sonoran, and does not appear to enter the Austro- 

 riparian. 



The following were accepted for puljlication : 

 40 




626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



A NEW AMERICAN GENUS OF ARIONIDiE. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Among other molliisks received from the Rev. E. H. Ashmun, 

 the fruits of his first season's collecting in Idaho, were a few small 

 slugs, about the size of Agriolimax campestris (Binn.). The dark 

 color, carinated tail and tripartite sole led me, upon first glance, to 

 think it an immature Amalia; but subsequently, upon opening one 

 to confirm the identification, it became at once obvious that an Arionid 

 slug was before me — a slug not referable to any hitherto known 

 species. This slug shall be called Zacoleus idahoensis. It is from 

 Meadows, Washington county, Idaho.^ 



ZACOLEUS, gen. nov. 



The genus Zacoleus may be briefly defined thus: Ariolimacinae 

 with the penis a simple sac continued beyond the insertion of the vas 

 deferens; duct of the spermatheca enormously enlarged; marginal 

 teeth with very long zonitoid mesocones, no ectocones; intestine but 

 slightly twisted; sole tripartite; pneumostome behind the posterior 

 third of the mantle ; no caudal pore. Central nervous system peculiar 

 by the unusually long cerebral commissure and very short cerebro- 

 visceral and cerebro-pedal connectives. 

 Zacoleus idahoensis n. sp. 



Externally the slug is black on the mantle and back, the flanks and 

 head lighter, slate-colored; the neck or area around the anterior 

 border of the mantle is dirty white. The reticulation is indistinct, 

 and longitudinal lines above, oblique on the sides, predominate, 

 somewhat as in Prophysaon coerideum (Ckll.). Back of the mantle 

 the body is keeled, the tail strongly so. The foot-margin is rather 

 narrow. The sole is narrow, yellowish- white, and divided by longi- 

 tudinal grooves into three subequal areas. There is no caudal pore, 

 but the acute tail appears somewhat abruptly truncate posteriorly in a 

 view of the profile. The oval mantle somewhat exceeds one-third 

 the length of the body. The pneumostome is situated between the 



^ I am indebted to Mr. E. G. Vanatta for assistance in the examination of these 

 slugs. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



posterior third and fourth of its length. One of the largest individuals 

 measures, length 14, breadth of sole 1.3 to 1.5, length of mantle 

 5.5 mm. In more contracted individuals the sole is somewhat broader 

 in front. 



The wholly buried shell is calcareous and moderately strong, oblong, 

 a little convex, the left side more straightened than the right, the 

 slightly projecting blunt apex being terminal. The surface is marked 

 with growth-striiB, and seems to be without periostracum. Length 

 2.5, width 1.5 mm. 



The free retractor muscles are arranged as in Hesperarion and its 

 allies, the ocular retractors and the pharyngeal retractor being inde- 

 pendent bands converging to the posterior edge of the mantle-cavity 

 where they are inserted in a group (PI. XXVIII, fig. 6). 



The genitalia (PI. XXVIII, fig. 5) were imperfectly worked out.^ 

 The penis (p.) is a stout, oblong sac receiving the vas deferens a little 

 distad of the middle of its length, and its kmien is there contracted by 

 a fleshy transverse body or sort of valve. Above this the walls are 

 thicker. Both divisions are smooth within. The small spermatheca 

 (sp.) is defined by a constriction from the duct {sp. d.), which is a 

 very capacious sac, longer than the penis, opening directly into the 

 atrium. Internally this relatively enormous duct has a few coarse 

 longitudinal folds, the number increasing toward the distal end where 

 they are numerous. Its structure, aside from size, is therefore what 

 is ordinarily encountered. 



No retractor muscle of the penis was seen, probably owing to the 

 ill preservation of the specimen, or to imperfect attention in the 

 early stage of the dissection. The terminal duct only of the 9 system 

 could be traced (ov.). 



The alimentary canal is constructed on the usual Arionid type, 

 though less twisted than in the related genera. The jaw is opaque, 

 very thin, arcuate, and composed of numerous dark plaits or flat ribs 

 separated by thin, transparent, much narrower intervals. In one 

 specimen examined there are over twenty-five narrow ribs (PI. XXVIII, 

 fig. 3); in another the ribs are much wider and not so numerous (PL 

 XXVIII, fig. 2). 



The crop is long and capacious, hardly separated from the stomach. 



The intestine (PI. XXVIII, fig. 4) is of the usual four-folded type 

 the anterior loop caught in the cephalic artery. It is curved in figure 



^ The spirit first used on the specimens was apparently too weak to properly 

 preserve the viscera; and the genitalia and intestine were so soft and tender that 

 their dissection was difficult. 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



8 fashion, but only slightly twisted. As in other native American 

 Arionidce, the posterior loop formed by the first and second folds of the 

 intestine lies anterior to that formed by the third and fourth folds. 



The radula has 31.1.33 teeth in two individuals counted. The 

 median tooth is tricuspid, the lateral teeth bicuspid, both being of the 

 type frequently figiu-ed for American Arionidce. There are seven 

 laterals on each side (PI. XXVIII, fig. 7). The change to the mar- 

 ginals is gradual, and produced by lengthening the main cusp and dim- 

 inution of the ectocone (PI. XXVIII, fig. 8). The division of the 

 lateral and marginal fields of the radula (between the seventh and 

 eighth teeth) is obvious in a general view of the ribbon under a low 

 power. The marginal teeth (PI. XXVIII, figs. 9, 10, 11) have the 

 basal plates shortened, a single long, lance-shaped cusp springing 

 therefrom. These cusps are rather broad on the inner (fig. 9) and the 

 outer (fig. 11) teeth, but long and graceful in the middle of the marginal 

 field (fig. 10). 



The central nervous system (PI. XXVIII, fig. 1) has the commissure 

 between the cerebral ganglia long, even for an Arionid slug. These 

 ganglia are obscurely bilobed. The cerebro-pedal and cerebro-visceral 

 connectives are, on the other hand, excessively short. The sub- 

 oesophageal group of ganglia exhibits stong concentration, with the 

 exception of the pedal mass. 



Affinities of Zacoleus. 



The contiguous posterior insertions of the free retractor muscles 

 and the long cusps of the marginal teeth show that this genus belongs 

 to the subfamily Ariolimacince as defined by Pilsbry and Vanatta.^ 

 The tripartite sole, peculiar genitalia, total absence of ectocones on 

 the Zonitoid marginal teeth, and the extreme shortening of the side 

 connectives of the circumcesophageal ring, all distinguish this genus 

 from its allies. The tripartite sole it has in common wdth Binneya and 

 Anadenulus, both of which differ conspicuously in more important 

 features. Perhaps the tripartite sole was a character of the primitive 

 Aulacopoda. It seems to occur somewhat sporadically in some genera 

 of several widely separated families of that group. There is no indi- 

 cation of the auto-urotomy (to coin a word) of Prophysaon in our 

 new genus. Zacoleus thus stands isolated among knowm genera. 

 Notwithstanding its strictly aculeate type of marginal teeth, Zacoleus 



3 Pilsbry and Vanatta, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 189S, p. 227; Pilsbry, 

 Proc. Malac. Soc. London, III, p. 100. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



is evidently a herbivorous slug. The crop and stomach of the speci- 

 men dissected were filled with the curiously marked leaves of Frullania 

 ( Jungermanniacese) . 



Explanation of Plate XXVIII. 



Fig;. 1. — Central nervous system of Zacoleus idahoensis. 



Figs. 2, 3. — Jaws. 



Fig. 4. — Intestine. 



P"ig. .5. — Genitalia: o, common external orifice; ov., oviduct; p., penisj sp. 



spermatheca; sp.d., duct of the spermatheca. 

 Fig. 6. — Free retractor muscles. 

 Figs. 7-11.— Teeth. 




630 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



A NEW GENUS OF STENOPELMATIN^ (OKTHOPTEEA) FROM NEW MEXICO. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



The material on which this genus is founded was collected in the 

 vicinity of Pecos, San Miguel county, New IMexico, in the summer of 

 1903, by Mrs. W. P. Cockerell. Two specimens were taken, the larger 

 of which is the type of the genus and species. It appears to be 

 doubtful that it is mature, but that it represents an entirely new type 

 is beyond question. The smaller specimen, taken July 21, is in such 

 condition and of such small size that nothing definite can be deter- 

 mined from it. 



SPILACRIS n. gen. 



This genus is a member of the Rhapidophorse, and belongs either to 

 the Tropidischise or represents a group by itself. 



Occiput globose; vertex produced into a compressed process; eyes 

 reniform, prominent; antennae with the basal joint longitudinal, second 

 joint globose, third and succeeding joints longitudinal; palpi simple. 

 Pronotum concave, saddle-shaped,' lateral lobes with the lower margin 

 rounded. Wings and tegmina absent.^ Anal styles acmninate, rather 

 short. Anterior and median femora compressed, the posterior slender, 

 moderately expanded at the base, the apical portion attenuate. An- 

 terior tibise imperforate. Tarsi without pul villi. 

 Spilaoris maculatus n. sp. 

 Type : d^ ; Pecos, San Miguel county. New Mexico, June 24, 



1903; on Fallugia. (W. P. Cockerell.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Size very small; form slender, apter- 

 ous; surface sparsely haired. Head with 

 the occiput globose; the process of the 

 vertex directed upward, rounded; eyes 

 Lateral view of 7.ead and very prominent; antenna greatly exceed- 

 basal joints of the an- ing the body in length. Pronotum not 



?™(e°rjfr^edr'' '"''''" ^^"*® ®^^^^^ *^ '^^^ ^^^^ '^ ^^^^th. Ante- 

 rior and median femora and tibise sub- 

 equal. Posterior femora almost equal to the body; tibise somewhat 

 ^ As the type is possibly immature, this may be found to be incorrect. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 631 



exceeding the length of the femora, without distinct spines, but 

 supphed with regular series of bristles on all the margins. Tarsi 

 with the terminal joint about equal to the others in length; 

 arolia absent. 



General color yellow of several tints, maculate on the limbs with 

 blackish. Head orange-yellow above, the vertex with a lateral bar 

 of black; eyes blackish, the postocular region with two parallel longi- 

 tudinal bars of the same tint; labrum, clypeus and lower portion of the 

 genae suffused with rose-red; antennae with the two basal joints black- 

 ish, the remainder blackish annulate with yellowish-white. Pronotum 

 orange-yellow with the lateral lobes darker. Abdomen reddish, the 

 terminal appendages black. Anterior femora with two distinct trans- 

 verse black bars, one apical, the other median, the former is, flanked 

 proximally by a bar of clear orange, forming a strong contrast to the 

 yellow basic tint, all overcast by a uniform speckling of small circular 

 black spots, a pattern which entirely covers the tibiae. Median limbs 

 identical w4th the anterior pair, except that the orange femoral bar 

 is paler. Posterior femora with the black maculations forming broad 

 annuli basally, spots apically, but wholly suffusing the genicular region ; 

 tibiae spotted, but basally exhibiting a tendency toward annuli. 



Measwements. 



Length of body, 3.7 mm. 



Length of posterior femora, 4 " 



Length of posterior tibiae, 4.5 " 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



THE POLYCYSTID GREGARINES OF THE UNITED STATES.-Second Contribution. 



BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 

 I. 



The following paper contains the results of my observations on 

 gregarines during the spring and summer of 1903. Two new genera 

 and several new species have been discovered. In addition, some 

 observations on the biolog}' of the animals are described. These con- 

 cern the cysts and the time required for the maturation of the spores. 



11. 



ACTJTISPORA n. g. 



Cysts spherical, with a thick cuticular membrane. Dehiscence by 

 means of an annular pseudocyst, which develops around one end of 

 the ellipsoidal spore-mass, the two together having the form of an 

 acorn. Spore-mass ellipsoidal and enclosed in a tough transparent 

 membrane, which splits into two values by a rupture extending around 

 the major diameter. Maturation period intermediate. 



Spores large, na\dcular in shape and sho-^ing epispore and endo- 

 spore. Ordinarily sjanmetrical, but sometimes wdth the longer axis 

 very shghtly curved. Endospore a truncated double cone, but "wdth 

 a slightly ciu-ved profile, and furnished at either end with a thick, blunt 

 refractive rod, the whole covered over by the epispore. Within 

 a large spherical residuum, either central or lateral, around which the 

 sporozoites are grouped. 



The genvLS contains one species: 

 Acutispora macrocepliala n. sp. PI. XXX, figs, 1-6 



Epimerite: Some of these animals showed an anteriorly directed pro- 

 longation of the protomerite which may possibly be regarded as con- 

 stituting the epimerite. If so, this element is poorly developed and 

 differs considerably in the different indi\'iduals. In some cases the 

 entocyte extended into it. 



Protomerite: Always showing a deep constriction at the beginning of 

 the posterior third. Large, and relatively larger in the small than in 

 the large animals. Separated from the deutomerite by a sharp con- 

 striction. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



Deutomerite: Conical, with usually a bluntly rounded posterior end. 

 Broadest just behind the septum and tapering gradually and uniformly. 



Epicyte: Thick, showing a double contour all over the animal. 



Sarcocyte: Poorly developed or w^anting, except for the septum, 

 which dips slightly backward. 



Entocyte: Dense in all cases. In the smaller animals, slightly less 

 dense in the protomerite than in the deutomerite. 



Nucleus: Invisible. 



Dimensions: Length of largest individuals seen, 600 microns. 



Cysts: Spherical. Diameter 410 microns, with a cuticular mem- 

 brane 40 microns thick. No gelatinous envelope. Dimensions of 

 spore-mass 400 by 300 microns. Maturation period 10 days. May 

 10-20, 1903. 



Spores: Length, 19 microns; breadth, 4 microns; refractive rods, 6 

 microns long. 



Host: Lithobius forficatus Linn. Found in but one case, and then 

 present in small numbers. 



Locality: Raleigh, N. C. 



GIGADTJCTUS n. g. 



Cysts spherical, wdth a thin gelatinous envelope. Dehiscence by 

 one enormous sporoduct. Maturation period short. 



Spores cylindrical, very large. Wall single, thick. Spores marked 

 with diagonal lines, those on one side opposed in direction to those on 

 the other, giving the spore a latticed appearance. These lines are 

 apparently due to the sporozoites, which make up a hollow cylinder 

 lying in contact with the inner surface of the spore wall. The residuum, 

 an ellipsoidal mass liberally provided with granules, occupies the 

 cavity of this hollow cylinder. 



The single species is: 



Gigaductus parvus n. sp. PI. XXX, figs. 10-13. 



Epimerite: Not seen. 



Protomerite: In the primites, generally forming somewhat more than 

 a hemisphere. In the satellites, slightly shortened, with a straight 

 anterior edge. Separated from the deutomerite by a sharp constric- 

 tion. 



Deutomerite: Cylindrical to conical, with a blimt posterior end. 



Epicyte: Well developed, showing a double contoiu-. Longitudinally 

 striated. 



Sarcocyte: Apparently wanting, except for the septum, which is 

 either plane or dips slightly backward. 




634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Entocyte: Coarsely granular; not dense. 



Nucleus: Large, spherical. 



Dimensions: Maximum size 150 microns long by 90 microns broad. 

 The satellites are usually slightly smaller than the primites; but 

 sometimes much smaller and sometimes larger. The smallest animal 

 seen was 50 microns long. 



Cysts: Diameter 170 microns. Gelatinous envelope 12 microns thick 

 in the young cyst, but becoming very much thicker as maturation 

 proceeds. Cysts remarkably uniform in size. Maturation period 

 2-3 days, August, 1903. 



Spores: Cj'^lindrical, 25 microns long by 10 microns broad. At the 

 ends, the spore wall is raised into a little circular ridge. 



Host: Harpalus caliginosus Fab. Infection only occasional, but the 

 gregarines usually present in considerable numbers. 



Locality: Wyncote, Pa. 



There is a good deal of confusion regarding the gregarines occurring 

 in the Diplopod family Julidae. These gregarines all bear a certain 

 amount of resemblance to one another, and it has been usual to rele- 

 gate all of them to the species Stenophora juli Frantz. Leger et Du- 

 boscq (1903) have recently shown that such a procedure is not war- 

 ranted for the famia of Corsica, and the case is certainly the same for 

 that of the eastern United States. The Julidse of this region are 

 infected with certainly two and possibly three species of Stenophora, 

 while the classic S. juli apparently does not occur. Of these species, 

 one is vmquestionably the form described by Leidy (1853) as Gregarina 

 julipusulli. As indicated by the specific name, Leidy considered its 

 host to be Julus pusillus Say. According to Bollman (1887) this 

 millipede, correctly Julus minulus Brandt, does not occur in Pennsyl- 

 vania, and it may be that Leidy was mistaken in his identification. 

 This matter is not, however, of any great importance, and the specific 

 name of the gregarine must stand. Leidy spelled the specific name 

 of the host pusullus, whereas Say's memoir (1821) renders it pusillus, 

 which spelling will be used for • the name of the gregarine. The 

 description is as follows : 



Stenophora julipusilli (Leidy). PL XXX, figs. 16, 17. 



Gregarina iulipusulli Leidy (1853), p. 238, P]. 10, figs. 21, 22. 

 Stenophora juli Crawley (1903), p. 51. 



Protomerite: Hemispherical to cA'lindro-conical to conical. In front 

 a more or less evident papilla, through which there is an apparent 

 pore. Ordinarily broader than long. 




1903,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 635 



Deutomerite: Ordinarily cylindrical to flask-shaped. Occasionally 

 ellipsoidal to oval. The cylindrical forms, in which the ratio of 

 breadth to length is 1 to 4, display the tendency toward the assumption 

 of the flask shape, in that the greatest breadth is in the posterior half. 

 When the flask shape is assumed, the body of the flask may take up 

 from one-third to three-fourths of the deutomerite. In such cases, 

 the ratio of breadth to length may be as high as 1 to 2. The contour 

 of the deutomerite is frequently slightly irregular. 



Epicyte: Well developed. About 3 microns thick in the deuto- 

 merite, slightly thinner in the protomerite, except at the anterior tip. 

 Here it is thickened and shows an apparent pore. There is no evidence 

 that the epicyte is actually pierced, however, and the apparent pore 

 is probably the rudiment of an epimerite. I>ongitudinal striations 

 conspicuous. 



Sarcocyte: Well developed all over the animal. About one-half 

 as thick as the epicyte. Greatly thickened at the anterior tip of the 

 protomerite. Septum thick, curving backward. 



Myocyte: Easily demonstrated by the use of reagents, and visible in 

 living animals under favorable circumstances. 



Entocyte: Uniformly granular. Yevy dense in the larger animals. 

 Granules of the protomerite difTering in character from those of the 

 deutomerite. 



Nucleus: Spherical, with one large spherical karyosome. 



Hosts: Julus and the smaller species of Parajulus. What is ap- 

 parently the same gregarine is occasionally present in Lysiopetalum 

 lactarium Say. Very common. 



Locality: Eastern United States. 



This species is easily separated from S. jidi by the size of the pro- 

 tomerite. In S. juli the length of the protomerite, according to the 

 figures given by Schneider (1875), makes up only about 6 per cent, of 

 the total length. In S. julipusilli this proportion increases to 10 per 

 cent, in the adults and 15 per cent, in the young. From Stenophora 

 varians, recently described by Leger et Duboscq (1903), S. julipusilli 

 differs in being a larger and bulkier animal and in having the breadth 

 of the protomerite almost invariably greater than the length. 



The Diplopod Parajulus, while frequently parasitized by Stenophora 

 julipusilli, shows at times other gregarines which cannot be placed 

 in that species. These present themselves under several forms, the 

 differences between which, if permanent, are certainly of specific 

 value. My observations, however, have not as yet been thorough 




636 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



enough to determine how many distinct species there are, and the 

 matter will be reserved for a futm-e commimication. 



For the following new species, the data at present on hand are not 

 sufficient to warrant formal definitions. 



Actinocephalus americanus n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 22. 



This species is created for a single individual foimd in Galerita hicolor 

 Driuy. The beetle is quite common and I have opened perhaps twenty 

 individuals, but only one was parasitized, and then but the one grega- 

 rine was present. It is probable that the parasite is only sporadically 

 present in Galerita, and that its usual host is some other animal. It 

 is, however, distinct from any of the common species occurring at Wyn- 

 cote. It is placed in the genus Adinocephalus on account of the form 

 of both protomerite and deutomerite, the presence of several karyo- 

 somes in the nucleus, and the fact that its host was a carnivorous 

 Arthropod. 



The grcgarine was 200 microns long, 35 of which represented the 

 length of the protomerite. The two segments were each about 45 

 microns broad. The epicyte was verj^ distinct and showed a little 

 papilla at the anterior tip of the protomerite. The septum curved 

 forward and the nucleus showed several karyosomes. The entocyte 

 was much denser in the deuteromite than in the protomerite. The 

 animal progressed quite freely in a circle of short radius, but was pre- 

 vented from taking any lengthy excmsions by the surrounding host 

 tissue. 



Hoplorhynchus scolopendras n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 19. 



This species is created for a gregarine parasitic in Scolopendra woocli 

 Meinert, from Raleigh, N. C. Two specimens were present. One of 

 these, when first seen, was a balloon-shaped sac, 350 microns long by 

 200 broad. The epicyte and sarcocyte were each nearly or quite 3 

 microns thick, and the former was plainly marked with longitudinal 

 striations. Both of the individuals were verj' flexible, readily changing 

 shape and shoTsing extensive contortions. 



After having been upon the slide for perhaps an hour, the parasites 

 became ciuiescent and assumed what was probably something like the 

 typical shape. The larger then measured 825 microns long by 120 

 microns broad. The anterior end, as shown in fig. 19, was much 

 narrower than the balance of the animal, but it is somewhat question- 

 able if this narrowing be permanent. A distinct septimi extended 

 across this narrower region, cutting off a portion of granular entocyte. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



Backward from the broadest portion, the animal's body tapered gradu- 

 ally, ending behind in a point. 



This species is placed in the genus Hoplorhynchus on account of its 

 close resemblance to H. actinotus Leidy and its occurrence in a centi- 

 pede related to Scolopocryptops, the host of the latter. 

 Trichorhynchus lithobii n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 18. 



This animal, Avhich is apparently specifically distinct from any of 

 the other gregarines parasitic in Lithohius, was found in a specimen of 

 that centipede from Raleigh, N. C. An epimerite was not seen. The 

 protomerite was subcordiform, and displayed in front a dijfferentiation 

 the exact nature of which could not be determined. The deutomerite 

 varied considerably in shape, the animal being quite polymorphic. 

 Both epicyte and sarcoc5rte were distinct and of about equal thickness. 

 The septum was thick and curved backward. The entocyte was not 

 dense; the nucleus large, with several karyosomes. The largest indi- 

 vidual seen was 195 microns long. 



Figs. 20 and 21 show a small gregarine frequently encountered in 

 Scolopocryptops sexspinosus Say. Fig. 21 is doubtless that of a very 

 young specimen which has been loosened from its original attachment 

 by the breaking up of the host intestine upon the slide. The three 

 segments are all marked out. It seems almost certain that this figure 

 represents a young Hoplorhynchus actinotus Leidy. The animal shown 

 in fig. 20 was very like the other in general appearance and had the 

 paleness characteristic of a young animal. There was, however, no 

 epimerite, nor did the individuals seen show any indications of recent 

 mutilations. H. actinotus may retain the epimerite until it reaches a 

 length of 700 microns, whereas the animal here figured was only 45 

 microns long. The observed facts are capable of two interpretations. 

 The one is that H. actinotus is to a certain extent dimorphic; that is, the 

 epimerite may be lost very early or it may be retained until the animal 

 has reached nearly or quite the maximum size. The other is that while 

 fig. 21 represents a young individual of H. actinotus, fig. 20 is that 

 of a different species. The matter is, however, one best held under 

 advisement until additional facts are obtained. 



There follow certain addenda, mostly with regard to the cysts and 

 spores, to the characters of species previously described. 



Actinocephalus harpali (Crawley). PI. XXX, fig. 14. 



Gregarina harpali Crawley (1903), p. 49, PI. 1, figs. 1-4. 

 To the characters given in my original description of this species 

 add: 




638 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Cysts: When first obtained, 640 microns in diameter, with a cuticular 

 membrane 95 microns thick. The true cyst mass was therefore 450 

 microns in diameter, and this size was maintained. On the other 

 hand, the cuticular membrane swelled enormously and became ovoid, 

 finally reaching a length of 1150 microns and a breadth of 1000. 

 The cyst opened by simple rupture where this membrane was thinnest. 

 Sporulation was apparently total. Maturation period 9 days, August 

 1^23, 1903. 



Spores: Length 9 microns; breadth 7h microns. Diamond-shaped 

 in longitudinal and hexagonal in transverse section. Spore wall 

 single, tliick, with the cavity entirely filled with hyaline protoplasm con- 

 taining one or two large to many small granules. The spores were 

 mostly adherent in files or masses, this arrangement being apparently 

 due to a thin pellicle of some gelatinous substance covering the spore 

 wall. 



This gregarine reaches a maximum length of 1200 microns. It is 

 very common, being present in considerable numbers in nearly every 

 beetle opened. On the other hand, at least from June to August, the 

 cysts are rare, the above data being obtained from a single specimen. 



Gregarina calverti Crawley. PL XXX, fig. 15. 



Gregarina calverti Crawley (1903), p. 48, PI. 2, figs. 19-21. 

 To the original description given of this species add: 

 Cysts: Spherical, with a cuticular membrane showing concentric 

 strige. No gelatinous envelope. The young cysts show a second 

 hyaline membrane, 3-4 microns thick, within the striated membrane. 

 Cysts varying in diameter from 250 to 360 microns, the membrane 

 varying in thickness from 20-40 microns. The larger cysts do not 

 necessarily possess the thicker membranes. The cysts are probably 

 in all cases the result of a fusion of two gregarines. Dehiscence effected 

 by sporoducts, from 4-8 in number, not exceeding in length the diam- 

 eter of the cyst. Sporoducts not always all used in the projection of 

 the spores. Maturation period 4 days, August 18-22, 1903. 



Spores: Dohform, 13 microns long by 5 microns broad. A single 

 thick spore wall, which is enclosed within a gelatinous pellicle, serving 

 to hold the spores together in files. Spore contents at first wholly 

 hyaline, but rapidly differentiating into a central spherical residuum 

 and two groups of sporozoites. 



Cnemidospora spiroboli (Crawley). PI. XXX, figs. 7-9. 



Stenophora spiroboli Crawley (1903), p. 51, PI. 2, fig. 22. 

 To the descriptions originall}" given of this species add : 

 Cysts: Spherical, 350-500 microns in diameter, with a cuticular mem- 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 639 



brane generally about 20 microns thick, but often much thicker. This 

 variation in the thickness of the membrane appears to be due to the 

 quantity of extraneous matter which gets tangled within it as it forms. 

 It was noticeable that the thin walls were clear and clean, while the 

 thick walls were very much matted with substance from the host's 

 intestine. Dehiscence by a slit which, in the cases observed, extended 

 only part way around the cyst. Sporulation partial. Maturation 

 period 8 days, May 17-25, 1903. 



Spores: Length 12^ microns; breadth 7+ microns. Two coated, the 

 epispore of some consistent gelatinous substance; the endospore 

 cuticular. The latter presents an elliptical profile, with slightly pro- 

 truding ends, whereas the epispore is pulled out considerably at the 

 ends, and somewhat irregular in outline. Sporoplasm hyaline, with a 

 central mass of granules. The spores adhere in files and masses. 



Gregarina achetaeabbreviatae Leidy. 



Gregarina achetceahhreviatce Ijeidy (1S53), p. 238, PI. 11, figs. 33, 3-i. 

 Gregarina achetoeabbreviatce Crawley (1903), p. 45, PI. 3, figs. 34, 35. 



To the previous notices of this species add : 



Cysts: Spherical, enclosed in a more or less irregularl}^ shaped thick 

 gelatinous envelope. Diameter of the cyst mass, without the gelati- 

 nous envelope, 225 microns. Cuticular membrane 6-8 microns thick. 

 The gelatinous envelope varied in thickness from 100-300 microns. De- 

 hiscence by sporoducts, 2-5 in number, reaching a length of 1000 

 microns. Prior to evagination, the situation of the sporoducts is 

 plainly indicated by the appearance around the periphery of the cyst 

 of dense discoid masses, yellowish in color. This yellowish color is 

 due to the presence of an oil, which, when the sporoducts evert, appears 

 to be within the substance of their walls, and not within their lumina. 

 The two cysts obtained everted their sporoducts one day after removal 

 from the host intestine. 



Spores: Unknown, for, rather curiously, although the sporoducts 

 everted, no spores appeared. 



The list of the polycystid gregarines of the United*States, revised to 

 date, is as follows: 



Fam. GREGARINID^. 



1. Gregarina blattarum Sieb. 



2. Gregarina ACHETiBABBREViAX/E Leidy. 



3. Gregarina passalicornuti I^eidy. 



4. Gregarina calverti Crawley. 



5. GiGADUCTUS PARVUS Crawlcy. 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



6. HiEMOCYSTis ovALis Crawlev. 



7. EuspoRA i^ucANi Crawley. 



8. CNERnDospoRA spiROBOLi Crawley. 



Fam. STENOPHORID^.i 



9. Stenophora julipusilli Leidy. 



Fam. DAOTYLOPHORID^. 



10. ECHINOMERA HISPIDA Aiiiie Scliii. 



11. ECHIXOMERA MICROCEPHALA Lcicl}'. 



12. Trichorhynchus pulcher Aime vSchn. 



13. Trichorhynchus lithobii Crawley. 



14. AcuTispoRA MACROCEPHALA Crawlev. 



Fam. ACTINOCEPHALID^. 



15. AiiPHOROiDES FOXTARi-E Crawley. 



16. AsTEROPHORA PHiLiCA Leidv. 



17. AsTEROPHORA CRATOPARis Crawley. 



18. Stephanophora locust^carolin.e Leidy. 

 10. Bothriopsis histrio Aime Sclin. 



20. Actixocephalus duj.yrdixi Aim6 Sehn. 



21. Actixocephalus harpali Crawley. 



22. Actixocephalus americaxus Crawley. 



Fam. MENOSPOEID^. 



23. HoPLORHYNCHus ACTixoTus Leidv. 



24. HoPLORHYNCHUS scoLOPEXDRAS Crawley. 



Fam. DOLIOOYSTID^. 



25. DoLiocYSTis RHYNCOBOLi Crawley. 



In addition to the above, there are eight more species. These are 

 all placed in the genus Gregarina, but since in no case are either the 

 cysts or spores Icnown, the correctness of this disposition is decidedly 

 in doubt. It is therefore impossible to say to which f amily]they belong. 

 They are as follows : 



26. Gregarixa termitis Leidy. 



27. Greg.^jiixa scarabeirelicti Leid5^ 



28. Gregarixa meloloxth.ebruxne.e Leidy. 



29. Greg.^ixa polydesmivirgixiexsis Leidy. 



30. Greg.^rixa elater.e Crawley. 



^ Established by L^ger et Duboscq (1903). 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 641 



31. Gregarina dic^li^ Crawley. 



32. Gregarina xylopini Crawley. 



33. Gregarina boletophagi Crawley. 



III. 



The time required for a gregarine cyst to mature appears to vary to 



a very remarkable degree. I have information on seven species, as 



follows : 



No. of days. Month. 



Gregarina ACHETiEABimEviAT^ 1 August. 



Gigaductus parvus 2-3 August. 



Gregarina calverti 4 August. 



Cnemidospora SP1R0130LI 8 May. 



Actinocephalus harpali 9 August. 



AcuTispoRA macrocephala 10 May. 



Actinocephalus dujardini 30 April-May. 



Although the number of cases is quite small, they point to one or 

 two facts of general interest. The first three species mentioned, in 

 which the period varies from one to four days, are all animals of which 

 the cysts open by means of sporoducts. This suggests the conclusion 

 that when sporoducts are developed the maturation period is short- 

 ened, although wherein the signification of this apparent correlation 

 may lie is decidedly problematical. 



The most striking case is that of Gregarina achetceahhreviatce. These 

 cysts had not passed to the exterior in the usual way, but were obtained 

 from the intestinal contents of a slaughtered cricket. They then 

 showed the yellowish disks indicative of the approacliing eversion of 

 the sporoducts (see p. 639), and in consideration of the short time 

 which elapses from the appearance of these disks to eversion, it is not 

 unlikely that the process may take place in the host intestine. There 

 is no inherent unlikelihood in such an event, although it would prob- 

 ably not lead to auto-infection. The spores, released in the fecal 

 masses of the posterior portion of the cricket gut, would merely pass 

 to the exterior free instead of enclosed within a cyst, there to await 

 their destiny. 



In the case of Gigaductus parvus the cysts were also removed from 

 the host intestine, which gives this species a very short period. The 

 cysts of Gregarina calverti were obtained from the feces of the host, 

 and hence the foiu days represents the time required after the cyst has 



^ Incorrectlj' given as discwli in the original description. 

 41 




642 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



reached the outside world. In the case of this species, I obtained quite 

 a niunber of cysts, all of which went through the process in approxi- 

 mately the same time. It is also worthy of note that the spores of 

 these two species mature rapidly. Those of Gigadudus parvus showed 

 differentiation into sporozoites as soon as they were ejected from the 

 cysts. Gregarina calverti was a trifle slower, but the sporozoites were 

 to be detected within half a day after dehiscence. 



Cnemidospora spiroholi, Actinocephalus harpali and Acutispora macro- 

 cephala showed periods of from 8 to 10 days. Of these three species, 

 the cysts of the first two deliisce by simple rupture, that of the third 

 by the formation of a pseudocyst. A . dujardini, which was thirty days 

 maturing, also dehisces by simple ruptm-e. Although the facts are 

 few, they point to the conclusion that when deliiscence is by ruptm-e, 

 maturation is a slower process than when sporoducts are formed. 

 Further, the spores of these last-named species did not, for several 

 days, show any differentiation into sporozoites. Of course, temperature 

 is a factor in determining the time, but the cysts of A. harpali were 

 exposed to exactty the same conditions as those of the two species of 

 Gregarina and of Gigadudus parvus. 



IV. 



The cysts of Acutispora niacrocephala present some points of interest. 

 They were obtained on May 10, from a specimen of Lithobius forficatus, 

 sent me from Raleigh, N. C. At this time they were perfectly spherical, 

 420 microns in diameter, with a cuticular wall 40 microns thick. There 

 were several cysts in the intestine of the myriapod, all about the same 

 size, and of these two matured. On ^May 18, the appearance presented 

 is sho"^ai in PI. XXX, fig. 4. The protective membrane was still clear 

 and the cyst proper still very dense. One hemisphere was now con- 

 siderably larger than the other, and on the siu-face of this larger hemi- 

 sphere there were a few indistinct furrows. These furrows do not ap- 

 pear to possess any especial signification, although they may be taken 

 as a sign that the cj^st is nearly mature. Two days later. May 20, the 

 cyst presented quite a different aspect. The protective membrane had 

 swollen greatly and was evidently \mdergoing a rapid decay (fig. 5). 

 At one pole, the upper in the figure, it was much thinner than elsewhere, 

 and it was from this pole that the spores eventually emerged. Within 

 lay the cyst mass, now having the form of an acorn, and consisting of 

 an ellipsoidal body, around one end of which was a thick ring. At the 

 free end of this ellipsoidal body, which is the spore mass, a definitive 

 membrane could be seen. This membrane, although presenting a 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 643 



curved contom*, did not fit closely the internal mass of spores, whence 

 the presence of a liquid may be assumed. The ring-shaped pseudocyst 

 presented the same general appearance as the spore mass, and it also 

 appeared to be inclosed by a membrane. The pseudocyst was so 

 dense that the ellipsoidal body could not be seen through it, but a deep 

 furrow could be detected extending around the line of juncture, giving 

 the entire element the optical section seen in fig. 6. The diameter 

 of the sphere formed by the protective membrane was considerabl}' 

 greater, and now measured 750 microns, as against 420 microns when 

 removed from the centipede. 



The next day the cyst had dehisced. It now showed a membranous 

 bag, lying within the disintegrated remains of the pseudocyst. This 

 bag showed two valves, and may be compared with the split shell of a 

 walnut. It was evidently of tough consistence, since movements of 

 the cover-glass, while rumpling it considerably, failed to tear it. It 

 was entirely empty, which fact would seem to indicate that the spores 

 are projected from the cyst with some force when dehiscence takes 

 place. 



The mechanics of the process are probably somewhat as follows: 

 The formation of the bulky pseudocyst at one pole causes a gradual 

 weakening of the protective membrane at this pole. In the condition 

 illustrated in fig. 5 the protective coating appears to be reduced to a 

 thin shell enclosing an empty space. This space, however, is doubtless 

 occupied by the substance of the membrane, rendered transparent by 

 the presence of a liberal quantity of water. Eventually the membrane, 

 weakened by the absorption of water, and pressed upon from within 

 by the pseudocyst, yields at the thinnest place and the contained mass 

 is released. Whether the ellipsoidal body splits on account of the 

 opening of the protective membrane, or by means of the liquid which 

 it evidently contains, I do not know. The latter seems to be the more 

 probable reason. 



The annular mass has been termed, and I think correctly, a pseudo- 

 cyst, yet it by no means possesses the permanent nature which this 

 element sometimes displays. It seems probable that we should find 

 various conditions from a mere residual mass to a definitive pseudo- 

 cyst, since the latter condition is evidently derived from the former. 

 In the case of Aciitispora, the condition may probably be regarded as 

 intermediate. The pseudocyst has become more than a mere residuum, 

 but has not acquired the definitiveness it reaches in'ajgenus like Sty- 

 lorhynchuf 



Cnemidospora spiroboli- presents the less evolved condition. In this 




644 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



case there remained, after dehiscence, a spherical shell, across the 

 surface of which a long rent extended. Within was a considerable 

 quantity of granules, which, upon pressure, escaped from the cyst in 

 two or three large masses. Here we have the primitive condition, a 

 mere residuum, which no doubt takes part in dehiscence by swelling. 



Bibliography. 



BoLLMAN, Chas. H., 1887. Notes on North American Julidze. Ann. New York 



Acad. Sci., IV, 1887, pp. 2.5-44. 

 Crawley, Howard, 1903. List of the Polvcystid Gregarines of the United 



States. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., januarj^, 1903, pp. 41-58, Pis. 1-3. 

 Leger et Duboscq, 1903. Recherches sur les Myriapodes de Corse et leurs 



Parasites. ^Vrch. Zool. exper. et gen., 1903. [4], Vol. I, pp. 307-358. 

 Leidy, Joseph, 1853. On the Organization of the Genus Gregarina of Dufour. 



Trans. Amer. PhU. Society, Vol. 10, N. S., pp. 233-241, Pis. 11, 12. 

 Say, Thomas, 1821. Description of che MjTiapodse of the United States. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., II, pp. 102-114. 

 Schneider, Aime, 1875. Contributions k I'histoire des Gregarines des In- 



vertebr^s de Paris et de Roscoff. Arch. Zool. exper. et g6n., 4, pp. 493-004, 



Pis. 16-22. 



Ex:planation of Plate XXX. 



Fig. 1. — Acutispora macrocephala (p. 632). Sporont. 



Fig. 2. — Acutispora macrocephala (p. 632). Supposed epimerite. 



Fig. 3. — Acutispora macrocephala (p. 632). Spore. 



Figs. 4-6. — Acutispora macrocephala (p. 632). Cysts. 



Fig. 7. — Cnemidospora spiroboli (p. 638). Cj^st about to dehisce. 



Fig. 8. — Cnemidospora spiroboli (p. 638). Empty cyst. 



Fig. 9. — Cnemidospora spiroboli (p. 638). Spore. 



Fig. 10. — Gigaductus parvus (p. 633). Association of two sporonts. 



Fig. 11. — Gigaductus pamis (p. 633). Cyst -«ath everted sporoduct. 



Figs. 12, 13. — Gigaductus parnis (p. 633). Spores. 



Fig. 14. — Actinocephalus harpali (p. 637). Spore. 



Fig. 15. — Gregarina calverti (p. 638). Spore. 



Fig. 16. — Stenophora julipusiUi (p. 634). Outline figure of young animal. 



Fig. 17. — Stenophora julipusiUi (p. 634). Adult. 



Fig. 18. — Trichorhynchus lithobii (p. 637). Sporont. 



Fig. 19. — Hoplorhynchus scolopendras (p. 636). Anterior end of relaxed animal. 



Fig. 20. — Small gregarine found in Scolopocry plops (p. 637). 



Fig. 21. — Small gregarine found in Scolopocry ptops. Supposed to be the young 



of //. actinotus (p. 637). 

 Fig. 22. — Actinocephalus americanus (p. 636). Sporont. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 645 



SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES ON SPIDERS OF THE GENERA LYCOSA, PARDOSA, 

 PIRATA AND DOLOMEDES FROM THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES.' 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR. 



The present is practically a supplement to a former paper by me, 

 entitled "Descriptions of Lycosidse and Oxyopidae of Philadelphia and 

 Its Vicinity/' published in these Proceedings in 1902. I have made 

 further collections of specimens from Philadelphia and West Chester, 

 Pennsylvania, the localities I had studied before, and also collections 

 from Crosswicks, Burlington county, New Jersey, and Wood's Hole, 

 Massachusetts. One new species is described, and descriptions of and 

 notes upon various others are given. 



For the comparison of the different species of Lycosidse the char- 

 acters of color and dimensions are of little worth, even the ocular 

 arrangements are subject to variation in some forms, so that the best 

 characters are afforded by the structure of the copulatory apparatus in 

 both sexes, by the form and proportion of the cephalothorax, the rela- 

 tive length of the chelicera, and the relative length of the legs to the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



The genera are defined as in my preceding paper; it is my purpose 

 later to revise the genera of this family, for the present characteriza- 

 tion of them appears to be artificial, and there must ultimately be a 

 classification upon a different set of characters. 



It is noteworthy that the specimens from Wood's Hole average 

 considerably smaller than those of the same species from the other local- 

 ities, so that there the maritime environment would appear to retard 

 or check growth, 



1. Lycosa ocreata pulchra Montg. 



Some specimens were secured at Wood's Hole. 



2. Lycosa sepulchralis Montg. 



The original description of this species was based upon a single 9 

 from Philadelphia; since then another 9 has been secured at West 

 Chester, and also a d^ from Philadelphia. The (5^ differs from the 9 

 in form in that the cephalothorax is relatively much broader across the 



^ Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Texas, 

 No. 53. 




646 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



middle, so that in front it is barely one-half its greatest transverse 

 diameter. The dimensions of this c? are: 



Length of cephalothorax. 4 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 3.5 " 



Length of first leg, 13.3 " 



Length of second leg, 11.5 " 



Length of third leg, .' 10.8 " 



Length of fourth leg, 16 " 



In color the pattern of the cephalothorax and the color of the sternmn 

 and inferior sm-f ace of the coxse is as in the 9 ; the abdomen has a more 

 distinct dorsal pattern, and the deep black of the venter (containing 

 minute yellow spots) extends further up the sides than in the ? . 

 But the main color differences in the d^ are in the legs : the coxse of 

 all the pairs are black; all the other Joints of the three posterior pairs 

 are clear yellow with an indistinct darker annulus on each patella ; in 

 the first pair the femora are clear yellow, the patellae the same color 

 with a dark ring, the tibise and proximal portions of the tarsi deep 

 black, the remaining portion of the tarsi and the metatarsi (except 

 a black ring at their distal ends) pale 3^ellow. The palpi have the 

 femora and proximal halves of the tarsus black, the other parts yellow. 



This (d differs from the (j' of Lycosa (Tarentula) modesta (Keys.) in 

 its smaller size, differences in the ocular arrangement, and in the 

 coloration of the legs and sternum. 

 3. Lycosa charonoides Montg. 



A male of this species, hitherto known only by the ? , was secured 

 from the same locality (Philadelphia), and its description follows: 



There are differences from the 9 in the ocular arrangement; the eyes 

 of the second row are less than their diameter apart, and the dorsal 

 eye area not more than one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax. 

 The dimensions (taken in life) are: 



Length of cephalothorax, 4.3 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 4.2 " 



Length of first leg, 12 " 



Length of second leg, 11 " 



Length of third leg, 10.5 " 



Length of fourth leg 15 " 



Color's in Life. — Cephalothorax marked with black and ' brown, as 

 follows: a median brown band, as broad anteriorly as the eye area 

 and extending back almost to the edge of the thorax; sides with radi- 

 ating brown markings, and a marginal and submarginal brown band, 

 both interrupted ; all the brown color is due to the presence of hairs, and 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 647 



the black (most conspicuous as a band on each side of the median one) 

 to their absence. The sternum is ghstening black, with few hairs. 

 The abdomen above blackish with an obscure narrow median brown 

 band, and on each side a row of 6-7 small whitish circular spots, the 

 largest of them most anterior, and the posterior ones transversely 

 connected by lines of brown; the sides are gray, streaked above with 

 blackish; the venter brownish-gray, with rows of small black dots 

 converging from the lung-books to the spinnerets, the region of the 

 genital aperture black, the lung-books yellow, the spinnerets blackish. 

 Chelicera and labrum black (the latter yellow at its distal end), maxilloe 

 reddish-brown. Legs reddish-brown; femora of the first pair and fem- 

 ora and tibise of the other pairs quite distinctly ringed with black and 

 buff. Palpi colored like the first pair of legs, but the tarsal joint 

 black. 



The cP is thus very similar to the 9 , but differs in the ocular 

 arrangement and in the coloration of the legs. 



A good distinction from the allied L. sepulchralis Montg., in addition 

 to the differences of the genital organs, is the follomng : in charonoides 

 the dorsal contour of the thorax is straight, and the labium less than 

 half as long as the maxillae; in sepulchralis the dorsal outline of the 

 thorax is arched (the eye area being somewhat depressed), and the 

 labium fully haff as long as the maxillse. 



4. Lycosa stonei Montg. 



This species is very abundant at Crosswicks, New Jersey. 



5. Lycosa vefisimilis Montg. 



Specimens were secured at Crosswicks, New Jersey. 



6. Lycosa arenicola Scudd. 



Specimens were secured at Wood's Hole. 



7. Lycosa scutulata Hentz. 

 Specimens from Wood's Hole. 



8. Lycosa cinerea (Fabr.). 



An adult 9 from Wood's Hole has a cephalothoracal length of only 

 5 mm. Numerous specimens from Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, 

 New York, Idndly sent by Miss Annie B. Sargent, are all very lightly 

 colored, with the abdominal markings very indistinct. 



9. Lycosa nidicola Emert. 



Additional specimens were collected at Crosswicks and Wood's Hole. 

 This is a very variable species in size and color. The dimensions of 

 mature 9 9 in my collection are as follows : 




648 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Three specimens from Wood's Hole, cephalothorax 6.5-7.5 mm. 

 Nine specimens from Crosswicks, cephalothorax 7.8-10.5 mm. 

 Twelve specimens from West Chester, cephalothorax 8-9 mm. 

 One specimen from Philadelphia, cephalothorax 8.2 mm. 



A large female in the McCook collection (described in my preceding 

 paper) had a cephalothoracal length of 9.2 mm. 



The color of the under sm'face of the abdomen in the females varies 

 from a pale yellow-ish-brown mth a few small scattered black spots 

 to darker with spots much more numerous, and sometimes arranged into 

 three bands converging toward the spinnerets, to blacldsh. All these 

 variations are found in the same locality. The sternmn varies from 

 brown to black, sometimes with a distinct Ught median band or an- 

 terior half (all specimens from Wood's Hole and one from West Ches- 

 ter), or without such a band. In the largest female from Crosswicks 

 the annulations on the legs and the converging dark bands on the 

 venter are as distinct as in L. inhonesta (Keys.). 



The males also differ considerably in size, as shown by two recently 

 acquired mature specimens from Philadelphia: 



Length of cephalothorax, 4.3 mm.- 6.6 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 4 '' - 5 " 



Length of first leg, 16 " -24 " 



Length of second leg, 16.2 " -22 " 



Length of third leg, 15.5 " -20 " 



Length of fourth leg, 21 " -27 " 



The color in life of these two males is as follows: Cephalothorax 

 blackish, a narrow buff-brown median line extending from the fore- 

 head to the end of the thorax, barely as wide as the space between the 

 eyes of the second row, in one specimen to each side of the anterior 

 end of this stripe a narrower parallel stripe ; an interrupted broader, 

 marginal band of the same color, and composed of long hairs. Sternum 

 pale greenish, covered with long hairs. Abdomen above anteriorly 

 with a blackish median mark largest just before its termination at 

 the middle of the dorsum, bordered by buff-browai broad stripes, and 

 each of the latter by a blackish stripe which extends to the spinnerets ; 

 posterior portion of the dorsum blackish, with indistinct buff-brown 

 spots, in one specimen with a pair of white spots ; sides pale yellowish ; 

 venter pale yellowish, in one specimen with black spots. Legs pale 

 yellowish-brown, metatarsus of the first pair blackish, distal end of 

 the tarsi of the other pairs blackish. Palpi colored like legs, but the 

 tarsi blackish on the inferior aspect. Chelicera yellowish -bro^vn, 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 649 



covered anteriorly with whitish hairs. Labium and maxiUce pale 

 yellowish-brown . 



This species differs from L. inhonesta (Keys.) in the greater relative 

 length of the dorsal eye area, and in the smaller relative length of the 

 chelicera. 



10. Lycosa lepida (Keys.). 



Nimierous additional specimens from Wood's Hole and Crosswicks. 

 Those from Wood's Hole are much smaller than from the other locali- 

 ties; in the males the cephalothorax varies from 3.2-4 mm., and in 

 the females from 3.5-5 mm. 



11. Lycosa frondicola Emert. 



A specimen from Wood's Hole. 



12. Lycosa purcelli Montg. 



Specimens from Crossmcks. 



13. Lycosa contestata, n. sp. 



One matm-e 9 (type), bearing a cocoon, from Wood's Hole, and three 

 immature specimens of probably this species from the same locality. 



Eyes. — First row almost as broad as the second (the middle points of 

 its lateral eyes more lateral than the middle points of the eyes of the 

 second row), its middle eyes larger and slightly higher. Eyes of the 

 second row largest, more than their diameter apart. Eyes of the third 

 row much nearer to the second row than to each other. Dorsal eye 

 area more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest just back of the posterior eyes, in 

 front slightly broader than one-half its greatest transverse diameter. 

 Head sloping and rounded on the sides. The length of the chelicera 

 is about twice the height of the head in front. Sternima longer than 

 broad. Labium almost one-half the length of ^the maxillae. Legs 

 stout. Epigynum very small. As seen from above the anterior edge 

 of the cephalothorax appears quite straight. 



Dimensions. 



Length of cephalothorax, 5.2 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 5 " 



Length of first leg, 15 " 



Length of second leg, 14.2 " 



Length of third leg, 13 " 



Length of fourth leg, 19 " 



Color in alcohol. — Cephalothorax above with a black stripe joining 

 and surrounding the eyes of the second and third rows of each side, the 

 sides of the head and forehead buff; a buff median band as broad as 




650 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the eye area extends from the eyes to about the middle of the thorax, 

 where it is laterally indented, and from the region of the dorsal groove 

 backward becomes gradually narrower; on each side is a narrower, 

 submarginal buff -brown; the rest of the thorax is darker bro^\7i, with 

 radiating lines from the dorsal groove. Sternum buff, a little darker 

 than the coxse. Abdomen above much darker than the cephalothorax, 

 mainly chocolate-brown mth black markings; at each antero-lateral 

 margin a black patch, a pair of white dots connected by a transverse 

 black line on the anterior dorsmn, several pairs of black spots (the 

 most posterior of them connected by transverse black lines) on the 

 posterior dorsum as well as 2 or 3 pairs of white spots, and irregular 

 black streaks on the sides; the venter is yellowish in the epigynal 

 region, behind this light brown with a narrow dark brown from the 

 epigynum almost to the spinnerets and with numerous small black 

 spots. Chelicera reddish-brown with long black hairs; labium and 

 maxillcB like the sternum. Legs pale buff, lighter beneath, with darker 

 annulations on the superior surfaces of all the joints. Spinnerets 

 chocolate-bro^n . 



Comparisons. — This form approaches most closely L. pratensis 

 Emerton, but differs notably in the structure of the epigynum, and 

 also in the coloration of the abdomen. 

 14. Lycosa (Trochosa) avara (Keys.). 



One mature 9 from Philadelphia. 



Eyes. — First row almost straight, narrower than the second row 

 (the middle points of its lateral eyes are more lateral than the middle 

 points of the ej^es of the second row), nearer to the second row than 

 to the margin of the forehead, its middle eyes slightly larger and a 

 little higher than its lateral eyes. Eyes of the second row largest, not 

 quite their diameters apart. Third row widest, its eyes nearer to the 

 second row than to each other. Dorsal eye area about one-sixth the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the dorsal groove, in front fully 

 one-half its greatest transverse diameter ; head rather low and its sides 

 moderately sloping. Sternum longer than broad. Labium less than 

 one-half the length of the maxillse. Chelicera strong, their length fully 

 double the height of the head in front. Legs stout. 



Dimensions. 



Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 6 " 



Length of first leg, 12 



Length of second leg, 10.5 " 




1903] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 651 



Dimensions. 



Length of third leg 10.5 mm. 



Length of fourth leg 15.5 " 



Color in alcohol. — Cephalothorax above with a clear reddish-yellow 

 median band extending from the second eye row to the posterior edge 

 of the thorax; this band is broadest close behind the posterior eyes, 

 there fully as broad as the eye area and enclosing on each side an 

 elongate darker mark and a dark line between the posterior eyes, it is 

 notched at the middle of the thorax and becomes narrower behind this 

 point; a narrow line of the same color borders the eye area laterally 

 and anteriorly; to each side of the median band the thorax is darker 

 brown with a rather indistinct submarginal, yellowish band, and wath 

 blackish stripes radiating from the dorsal groove. Sternum pale 

 yellowish-brown, like the inferior surfaces of the coxae. Abdomen 

 above dull brownish obscurely mottled with yellowish, the brown form- 

 ing an indistinct median and a pair of lateral bands on the anterior 

 half; sides and venter clear yellowish-brown, with small brown spots 

 most numerous near the spinnerets; the latter deep reddish-brown. 

 Chelicera deep rufous-red, maxillce a little paler, labium nearly black 

 with a lighter tip. Legs reddish-yellow, about the color of the median 

 cephalothoracal band, ringed with darker brown on the femora and 

 patellae, more distinctly above than below, and with more obscure 

 annulation on the tibise. Palpi colored like the legs. 



Comparisons. — This specimen agrees very closely with Keyserling's 

 description. It has certain resemblances to L. niqraurata Montg. (of 

 which only the c? is known), but is smaller and with a different colora- 

 tion, particularly of the thorax and the venter. It also resembles L. 

 rufiventris Banks, especially in the form of the epigynum, but rufi- 

 ventris is slightly larger and has the "al)domen above and below red- 

 brown like the sternum.'' 



16. Lycosa pratensis Emert. 



Two females from Wood's Hole. 



Eyes. — First row as wide as the second, its middle eyes larger than 

 its lateral. Eyes of second row largest, their diameter apart. Eyes 

 of the third row nearer to the second row than to each other. Dorsal 

 eye area about one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest just in front of the dorsal groove, 

 in front more than one-half its greatest transverse diameter. Length 

 of the chelicera about one and a half times the height of the head in 

 front. Sternum lonii(>r than ]:)road. Legs stout. 




652 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Dimensions. 



Length of cephalothorax, 4.4 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 4 '' 



Length of first leg, 10 '* 



Length of second leg, 9 ' " 



Length of third leg, 8.8 " 



Length of fom-th leg, 12 " 



Color in alcohol. — Cephalothorax above reddish-brown, a broad, 

 median yellow band surrounds the eye area and extends backward (en- 

 closing a pair of brown lines) to just in front of the median groove 

 where it is constricted, and narrows from this point back to the margin 

 of the cephalothorax; on each side an interrupted, submarginal yellow 

 band. Sternum reddish-brown, a little darker than the coxae. Abdo- 

 men above dark olive-bro'^Ti, on its anterior half a fight median band 

 edged by black lines and ending in a point at the middle of the dorsum, 

 and on each side along the whole length of the abdomen a row of yel- 

 lowish dots; venter reddish-brown, sides and region just in front of 

 spinnerets dark olive-brown. Chelicera dark chestnut-brown, labium 

 the same, maxillce fike the sternum. Legs yellowish, indistinctly 

 ringed on femora, patellae and tibiae with brown, tarsi and metatarsi 

 darker. 



16. Pardosa nigropalpis Emert. 



Additional specimens from Crosswicks and Wood's Hole. 



17. Pardosa scita Montg. 

 Specimens from West Chester. 



18. Pardosa lapidicina Emert. 



Specimens from Wood's Hole. 



Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, almost straight, its eyes 

 subequal. Eyes of second row largest, about twice their diameter 

 apart. Third row widest, its eyes nearer to the second row than to 

 each other. Dorsal eye area one-quarter the length of the cephalo- 

 thorax; in the c^ tlfis area has a shorter proportionate length. 



Form.— Cephalothorax relatively broad and flat, highest in the eye 

 region, in front about one-half its greatest transverse diameter. Length 

 of the chelicera about one and a half times the height of the head in 

 front. Sternum longer than broad. Legs long and slender. Pos- 

 terior spinnerets decidedly longer than the anterior. 



Dimensions. 



Length of cephalothorax, 3.4 mm. 3.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 3.5 " 6 " 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 653 



Dimensions. c? 9 



Length of first leg, 12 mm. 12.5 mm. 



Length of second leg, 12 " 12 " 



Length of tWrd leg, 12 " 12.5 " 



Length of fourth leg, 15.5 " 17.5 " 



Color in alcohol, ? ? . — Cephalothorax above blackish, black in eye 

 region; an indistinct, irregularly bounded, broad median lighter area, 

 and irregular markings of the same color composing an indistinct 

 submarginal band. Sternum black. Abdomen above deep olive-gray, 

 on the anterior half with a more or less distinct narrow median band 

 of yellowish bordered on each side by a black line, and on the posterior 

 half either a row of transverse yellowish bands each enclosing a pair 

 of black spots, or else on each side a row of yellowish spots ; sides finely 

 mottled with olive-gray and yellowish; venter yellowish-brown, bor- 

 dered laterally and just anterior to spinnerets by dark olive-gray. 

 Chelicera clear reddish-brown, maxillce olive-brown, labium black 

 proximally and yellow distally. Legs annulated above with blackish 

 and yellowish on all the joints except the metatarsi, and with a longi- 

 tudinal yellowish stripe on the posterior aspect of each feniur ; on their 

 lower surfaces the coxae and femora are greenish or olive-gray, each 

 coxa with a proximal light spot, the other joints more yellowish. 



Color in alcohol, c? . — Like the ? , but with the superior surfaces of the 

 thorax and abdomen nearly black and their color patterns barely dis- 

 tinguishable. 



19. Pardosa pallida Emert. 



One 9 from Wood's Hole. 



Eyes. — First row much shorter than the second, straight, its eyes 

 equal in size. Eyes of the second row largest, fully one and a half 

 times their diameter apart. Eyes of the third row nearly as far from 

 the second row as from each other. 



For?n. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front less than 

 one-half its greatest transverse diameter. Length of the chelicera less 

 than the height of the head in front. Sternum longer than broad. 

 Labium less than one-half the length of the maxillae. Legs long and 

 slender. Posterior spinnerets double the length of the anterior. 



Dimensions. 



Length of cephalothorax, 2.8 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 2.5 " 



Length of first leg, 8.2 " 



T-cngth of second leg, 7.8 " 



Length of third leg, 8 " 



I>ength of fourth leg, 12.3 " 




654 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Color in alcohol. — Cephalothorax above yellow, a broad l)rown stripe 

 from each posterior eye backward to the end of the thorax, a narrow- 

 blackish line on each side near the margin, extreme margin black ; black 

 aromid the posterior eyes and between the middle ej^es, forehead yellow, 

 long white hairs above the first eye row. Sternum pale yellow about the 

 color of the coxae, with black spots on the lateral margins. Abdomen 

 above with a pale orange, broad median band extending its entire 

 length, in the anterior half of this band a somewhat darker band bor- 

 dered on each side by small black spots; sides grayish with short 

 black streaks; venter with a black line from each lung-book to the 

 spinnerets, the space enclosed by these lines silvery-gray. Spinnerets 

 yellowish. Chelicera and maxilke of the same yellowish color as the 

 cephalothorax, labium blackish. All the legs greenish-yellow below, 

 the two posterior pairs darker ; coxa? and trochanters above each with 

 2 or 3 black spots, and femora above each with a short black stripe on 

 the proximal portion. Pedipalpi yellowish, unspotted. 



20. Pirata humicolus Montg. 



Numerous specimens from Crosswicks. 



21. Pirata liber Montg, 



Specimens from West Chester, Crosswicks and Wood's Hole. Those 

 from Wood's Hole compose a geographical race characterized by 

 smaller size (largest 9 with a cephalothoracal length of only 2.6 mm.), 

 and by the proportionately greater extent of the dorsal eye area, which 

 is somewhat less than one-quarter the length of the cephalothorax. 



22. Dolomedes urinator Hentz, 

 Specimens from Crosswicks. 



23. Dolomedes idoneus Montg. 

 Specimens from Crosswicks. 



24. Dolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz. 



One mature 9 from Wood's Hole. 



Eyes. — The first row about the diameter of its eyes from the second 

 and fully four times their diameter from the anterior edge of the head, 

 broader than the second row, its lateral eyes slightly higher than the 

 middle. Eyes of the second row barely their diameter apart, slightly 

 smaller than those of the thirtl row. Third row broadest, its eyes on 

 eminences, this row about the diameter of one of its eyes behind the 

 second row. Dorsal eye[area less than one-fifth the length of the cepha- 

 lothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax distinctly longer than broad, highest behind 

 its middle. I-,ength of the chelicera about one and a third times the 



I 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 655 



height of the head in front. Sternum as broad as long, heart-shaped. 

 Legs stout. Labium less than one-half the length of the maxillae. 



Diynensions. 



Length of cephalothorax, 6.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 6.5 " 



Length of first leg, 21.2 " 



Length of second leg, 21.2 " 



Length of third leg, 20 " 



Length of fourth leg, 25 " 



Color in alcohol. — Cephalothorax above greenish-brown, on each side 

 a bright white band extending from the cheek to the posterior end of 

 the thorax; a thin, interrupted black marginal line; a very narrow 

 pale yellow median band from the plane of the posterior eyes back- 

 ward, and just behind each posterior eye a short line of the same 

 color; near the middle of the dorsum, touching the median band, a 

 pair of small brown spots. Sternum yellow, on each side three 

 distinct black spots. Abdomen above a chocolate-brown, on its an- 

 terior third a lighter band ; five pairs of black spots, which successively 

 decrease in size backward, on the dorsum, the centre of each of which 

 is a minute white spot; on the sides a broad band of gray hairs; sides 

 of venter brown, the area between the lung-books and the spinnerets 

 yellowish. Legs yellowish-green above, tarsi and metatarsi darker; 

 below the femora pale sea-green, and the coxae pale yellow like the 

 sternum; no dark annulations. Chelicera reddish-brown, labium and 

 maxiUce dark chocolate-brown. 



Explanation of Plate. 

 All the figures represent camera drawings of the copulatory apparatus. 



Fig. 1. — Li/cosa sepulchralis, (^ pedipalp. 

 Fig. 2. — Lj/cosa avara, epigynum. 

 Fig. 3. — Pardosa pallida, epigynum. 

 Fig. 4. — Lycosa contestata, epigynum. 

 Fig. 5. — Dolomedes sexpunctatus , epigynum. 

 Fig. 6. — Pardosa lapidicina, epigynum. 

 Fig. 7. — Lycosa charonoides, (^ pedipalp. 

 Fig. 8. — Lycosa pratensis, epigynum. 

 Fig. 9. — Pardosa lapidicina, (^ pedipalp. 




656 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



RACIAL VARIATION IN PLANTS AND ANIMALS, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE 

 TO THE VIOLETS OF PHILADELPHIA AND VICINITY. 



BY "tt^TMER STONE. 



Having for a number of j'^ears been interested in racial variation 

 among terrestrial vertebrates and its relation to environment and 

 climatic conditions, I was recently led to make some investigations 

 along the same lines among om' phaenerogamic plants, in some genera 

 of which, notably Cratcegus, Panicum, Viola, etc., species and subspecies 

 have of late years been described at a rate quite equal to that which 

 has prevailed for some time past among the birds and mammals. 



The genus Viola was selected for study because I have long been 

 familiar with the more common species foimd in the vicinitj' of Phila- 

 delphia, and because an abundance of material is easily accessible in 

 this neighborhood. 



While my studies have thrown little light upon the relation of 

 variations to conditions of environment, they have enabled me to pre- 

 sent a pretty complete account of the variations exhibited by our 

 local violets wliich may prove of assistance to those who investigate 

 this interesting genus. 



Any one at all in touch with the progress of systematic zoology 

 and botany must be aware of the enormous number of new species 

 and subspecies that have been named and described during the last 

 decade. By some, especially those who have not gone very deeply 

 into systematic work, this tendency has been severely criticised as 

 imwarranted multiplication of names in the interest of the describer, 

 which tends to render specific identification more difficult on the part 

 of the general student. To those who have given the matter serious 

 consideration, however, it must be evident that slowly but surely 

 our conception of a species has been changing, and that the recognition 

 of a very large number of new forms in systematic work is an obvious 

 necessity on evolutionary and philogenetic grounds. 



The enormous collections that have been gathered together in recent 

 years, especially in the United States, covering thoroughly, as they 

 do, large contiguous areas instead of isolated spots as heretofore, show 

 us that instead of sharply defined widespread species we have, in 




1903,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 657 



many cases, a nmnber of slightly differentiated local forms, sometimes 

 susceptible of being banded together as races of one specific group or 

 sometimes so intricately interrelated as to involve several previously 

 well-established "species/' and to render any arrangement in groups a 

 matter of the closest study and more or less arbitrary decision. 



No one description will accurately cover all of these related races, 

 and as the specific descriptions of older writers are often based entirely 

 upon one race or form, there is obviously no course but to recognize 

 the others on an equal basis. 



Whether or not our present system of nomenclature will prove 

 inadequate for the purpose remains to be seen, but under any circum- 

 stances the recognition of these forms which nature has differentiated 

 in a greater or lesser degree will be inevitable, as it is becoming obvious 

 that they, instead of the clumsy specific aggregate, are the funda- 

 mental units of systematic work. 



The existence of these "variants" among vertebrates was first 

 clearly accepted in the Check List of North American Birds, issued by 

 the American Ornithologists' Union in 1886, and a system of trinomials 

 was adopted by which they could be independently designated and 

 at the same time their relation to their specific aggregate denoted. 

 This plan has been largely followed in vertebrate zoology since this 

 time, but as material and knowledge has increased the difficulty of 

 grouping forms in specific aggregates, in such a manner as not to do 

 violence to the proper function of a name on the one hand and to a 

 fact of evolution on the other, has so increased that bj^ some writers 

 trinomials have been all but abandoned, and binomials employed to 

 designate every form, no matter how slightly differentiated. In botany 

 where the trinomial system has never been so widely adopted as in 

 vertebrates, almost all the recently named forms are designated as 

 species. 



As"*! have elsewhere stated,^ I am convinced that the use of tri- 

 nomials is still our best method for denoting these races, though not 

 on exactly the basis originally proposed in the American Ornitholo- 

 gists' Union Code of Nomenclature. 



The results of my study of variation in the genus Viola I have 

 considered under three headings: Racial A'ariation, as exhibited in 

 plants; Variation in the Genus Viola; and a Synopsis of the Violets of 

 Philadelphia and vicinity. For the sake of comparison I have pre- 

 ceded these with a brief resume of racial variation among terrestrial 

 vertebrates. 



' Condor, 1903, p. 43. 

 42 




658 proceedings of the academy of [oct., 



Racial Variation among Terrestriai^ Vertebrates. 



Variation in animals may be of several different types: (1) sexual, 

 (2) age and seasonal, (3) dimorphic, (4) individual, albinistic, etc.;, 

 and (5) specific or racial. 



We have a terse nomenclature by which differences of sex, age, etc., 

 may be denoted, and sometimes, as in birds, quite a complicated 

 terminology by which every plumage is designated (cf. Dwight, Auk, 

 1902, p. 248), but our binomial and trinomial nomenclature is used 

 only for specific or other racial variations. 



Among terrestrial vertebrates racial variation corresponds closely 

 to geographic environment, and in many groups it is very easy to recog- 

 nize the effect of the environment of several different life areas in pro- 

 ducing recognizably distinct races from the same type. 



In birds and mammals this correspondence is most marked, though 

 among them we find some genera much more plastic than others ; the 

 song sparrows (Melospiza), for instance, breaking up into a very large 

 number of forms, while the robins (Merula) are remarkably constant 

 over large areas. In birds and mammals the individual variation in 

 size, after making due allowance for age and sex, is exceedingly slight, 

 and the same may be said of color, provided the additional allowance 

 for season is made, so that very slight differences in measurements 

 or in shades of color, which might appear trivial, are really constant 

 and perfectly reliable as indications of the differentiation of a distinct 

 form. 



Among reptiles individual variation is very much greater, and 

 geographic races cannot be so clearly designated as in the classes 

 just considered. Measurements are of little significance, except in 

 the relation which one dimension may hold to another ; color and scale 

 formulae are also subject to great variation. Some species, however, 

 vary much more than others, and in slightly differentiated forms with 

 a high percentage of individual variation extremes may overlap in 

 certain respects, or an occasional individual may revert to an ancestral 

 type in some character or other, without affecting the fact that a race 

 has been differentiated. Such individuals are referable to the same 

 category as geographic intergrades in the usually narrow belt, where 

 life-areas which have given rise to two forms merge one into the other. 



In the Batrachia individual variation is further complicated by the 

 metamorphosis which is often responsible for the persistence of certain 

 early (larval) characters in the adult, and that many species in this 

 class have been based upon this and other individual variations I 

 have little doubt. 




1903.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 659 



In the higher terrestrial vertebrates, as ah-eadj^ pointed out, the 

 ranges of several closely related forms are coextensive with the limits of 

 the several life-areas to the peculiar environmental conditions of 

 which they owe their origin. Consequently we never find two geo- 

 graphic races or subspecies of the same form occurring together, 

 except diu'ing times of migration. Among reptiles, however, we do 

 find variants of the same form which have been generally rated as 

 subspecies occurring in the same life-area. We perhaps need more 

 material and more exact data regarding habitat, etc., before the proper 

 status of such forms is established. They may be color types or 

 dimorphic forms produced indiscriminately throughout the range of 

 the species; or are, perhaps, due to local, soil or other conditions 

 prevailing in different areas wuthin the range of the species. The fact 

 that such forms occur together and intergrade, how^ever, seems abun- 

 dantly proven. 



The above resume is presented, showing the conditions which exist 

 among terrestrial vertebrates with regard to racial variation, in order 

 that they may be compared with the conditions that prevail among 

 plants. 



Racial Variation Among Plants, 



As is w^ell known, the trees and shrubs, as well as other plants in a less 

 degree, conform with more or less exactness to the same general 

 laws of geographic distribution that pertain to animals; and the ranges, 

 of many species are limited by the life-zones that have been established 

 originally from a study of birds and mammals. 



When, however, a genus is represented by different forms in several 

 life-zones, they are usually very distinct species and not closely related 

 variants which have obviously been differentiated from a common 

 parent type by prevailing environmental conditions in the severaL 

 life-areas in question, such as is so frequently seen among vertebrates. 



At the same time an abundance of closely related variants do exist 

 among plants, differentiated to the same varying extent as in the geo- 

 graphic races of birds and mammals, but all occurring in the same life- 

 zone or area, and often side by side. They are, moreover, quite con- 

 stant in their racial characters, and certainly not cases of individual 

 variation. 



Obviously some other agency must be responsible for this differenti- 

 ation, and it is in many cases no doubt to be found in the varying 

 soil conditions, and in other local peculiarities not sufficiently potent 

 to affect higher animal life. Owing to the fixed nature of plant life. 




660 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



such conditions are likely to have a very marked effect in producing 

 local forms from widely distributed species, while, on the other hand, 

 a freely moving animal is either not so easily affected or simply avoids 

 localities within its range where soil conditions, etc., are imcon- 

 genial. Thus the pine-barren region of southern New Jersey, where 

 soil conditions differ totally from the lower Delaware valley, though 

 in the same life-zone, presents a most distinctive flora, but not a single 

 "subspecies" of bird or mammal has been differentiated from those 

 foimd in the latter area. Such species as are not averse to the con- 

 ditions there presented occur unchanged, while others simply avoid 

 the region and are conspicuous by their absence. Some very local 

 races of mammals have been differentiated, it is true, in the Dismal 

 Swamp of Virginia and other similar spots, but the effect of purely 

 local conditions upon plant life is vastly greater than upon animals. 



jM}^ studies have been entirely too limited to warrant any attempt 

 to account for the origin of these local plant races, even in the genus to 

 which I have devoted especial attention, but the point that I would 

 particularly emphasize is that we have in these forms, which grow often 

 side by side, just as clearly differentiated races as the geographic sub- 

 species of vertebrates, and that they can be designated by trinomials 

 to better advantage than by the binomial method now generally in 

 vogue, even though the grouping be admittedly arbitrary in some 

 instances (cf. Condor, 1903, p. 43). The careless use of the trinomial or 

 varietal name in botany for all sorts of variation, purely individual, 

 albinistic, etc., of course acts as a prejudice against applying it to well- 

 established racial forms of this kind, but with the tremendous increase 

 in species that we have recently witnessed in some genera the benefits 

 of the trinomial system should be apparent. Unless we are thoroughly 

 familiar wdth a genus, it is impossible to tell in a strictly binomial sys- 

 tem which forms are clearly defined species and which are slightly 

 differentiated races of a well-known type, while the use of trinomials 

 indicates this at a glance. 



Of course, in either animals or plants there must be some limit to 

 the nimiber of forms recognized, and nomenclature becomes absurd 

 when applied to variants which can only be recognized by, perhaps, 

 one or two specialists who have devotee \^ears to the study of the group. 

 This limit would seem to have been passed in the genus Cratcegus. 

 While there are admittedly a large number of species in eastern 

 North America, the two himdred or more that have been proposed seem 

 to more than cover the ground, especially since I have seen sets of 

 specimens collected from six bushes and submitted to three leading 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 661 



specialists on the genus returned as belonging to twice that number 

 of species, due to the difference in their identifications. 



Variation in the Genus Viola. 



My observations on the genus Viola as represented in the neigh- 

 borhood of Philadelphia have covered a number of years, but during 

 the past three seasons the study has been carried on systematically 

 throughout the spring and summer. Typical colonies of the various 

 forms have been constantly under observation, and large series of speci- 

 mens have been preserved at definite periods which show as nearly as 

 possible the changes undergone by each species. These specimens 

 will be distributed in sets to several of the principal herbaria in the 

 East, where they may perhaps be of assistance to others who are 

 engaged in a study of this interesting genus. 



The species of the genus Viola are divisible at once into two groups — • 

 the caulescent species, bearing both leaves and flowers upon a main 

 stem, and the acaulescent, in which petioles and scapes spring from 

 the root stalk. The species of the former group are much more easily 

 defined, and show but little of the tendency to racial variation that is 

 characteristic of the acaulescent group. We find three types of color 

 in the flowers of the genus — blue, yellow and white— and all are repre- 

 sented in each of the above groups. In one caulescent species V. 

 rafinesquii the flowers are somewhat parti-colored, as in the case of the 

 pansies of cultivation, of which this is our native representative, 

 forming a section well distinguished from the other species by addi- 

 tional characters. Among the caulescent species we also have one 

 parti-colored race, V. pedata, which likewise is clearly separated from 

 the others by structural peculiarities. 



It is the blue-flowered acaulescent species that present by far the 

 greatest racial and individual variation, and it is to them that I have 

 given particular attention, and upon which the following statements are 

 based, though all the species are considered in the review of our local 

 violets which concludes the paper. 



Leaf-form is decidedly the most striking character in violets, and 

 one in which variation is to be seen to perfection. There is, first of 

 all, variation due to age, the early leaves being usually different from 

 those produced later in the season. The general shape of the early 

 leaves is, moreover, very similar in a number of species which later on 

 bear but little resemblance to one another — a fact which renders it 

 exceedingly difficult to identify some of the descriptions of older 

 writers based solely upon early flowering plants. In forms in which 




662 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the mature leaves are lobed or cut the early leaves are often quite or 

 nearly entire, indicating the probable derivation of lobed-leafed s^x^cies 

 from an entire-leaved ancestor; and the tendency toward lobatior 

 seems to increase in all the later leaves. 



Considering now the racial variations presented by the leaves, we 

 find a tendency in two directions, starting from what I take to be the 

 most primitive type — the cordate leaf of V. papiUonacea, etc. In one 

 direction we tend toward extreme lobing or leaf division, passing suc- 

 cessiveh' through V. palmata dUatota, V. pabnata, V. p. variabilis, 

 V. p. angcUa', V. septemloha and T". brittoniana, culminating with the 

 aberrant T". pedata, in which the lobation is of a somewhat different 

 type. 



In the other direction, we pass through V. jimbriatida and its forms 

 to the triangular-leaved T". cmarginala and the narrow sagittate-leaved 

 V. sagittata. This series has a tendency to toothed or notched bases 

 to the leaves, and in very broad-leaved V. emarginata these teeth are 

 exaggerated into lobes and a leaf-form is produced that comes very 

 close to some of the V. palmata group near the other end of the series ! 



Individual variation is best shown in V. p. dilatata and V. p. varia- 

 bilis. In these we are likely to find every ^'ariation, from a plain 

 cordate leaf to one with from three to seven lobes, in the same colony 

 of plants, and man}^ of them actually on the same individual plant. 

 Sometimes, too, we find leaves lobed on one side and not on the other. 

 That these all belong to one race is certain, though the unlobed type 

 has often been regarded as distinct under the name of V. sororia. 

 That one style of leaf may prevail in one locality and another some- 

 where else seems ciuitc likely, though all the colonies that I have 

 examined exhibit a great variety of shapes. 



So far as the correlation of the lobed-leaved species with peculiar soil 

 conditions, there seems to be only contrary evidence. The V. palmata 

 group are plants of the upland woods, V. septemloba is a moist-woodland 

 violet and V. brittoniana occurs in open sandy ground, usually in moist 

 spots, while V. pedata is a plant of dry sandy banks. 



There does, however, seem to be a tendency toward narrow leaves 

 in many wet-ground species, as seen in the linear divisions of V. brit- 

 toniana and the lanceolate leaves of T^. lanceolata and sagittata. 



In the pubescence of the leaves we have a pretty good specific char- 

 acter, though it seems to decrease somewhat on very old leaves, while 

 very early leaves of V. p. dilatata are nearly glabrous, though the later 

 ones are strongly pubescent. In V. sagittata some colonies have 

 slightly pubescent leaves, while the typical plants are glabrous. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 663 



T'. fimbriatula and its forms, the most pubescent species of the genus, 

 are ahvays foiuid on exposed dry sandy or rocky banks, but V. villosa 

 and V. palmata, also pubescent, are woodland species, and grow closely 

 associated ^ith V. afflnis, which is glabrous. It may be said, how- 

 ever, that all species of moist, open groimd are essentially glabrous, 

 viz., V. cucullata, V. crenulata and typical V, sagittata. 



The relative length of petioles and scapes is often quoted as a distinct- 

 ive character, but such comparison should explicitly be made with 

 either the first or second set of leaves, as the "flowering period" often 

 covers the growth of the second leaves, so that early flowers are longer 

 than the leaves while later ones are shorter. The length and character 

 of the peduncle of the later cleistogamic flowers is an important 

 specific character, as first pointed out by Prof. Greene. In some spe- 

 cies it is long and erect, notabl}^ in V. cucullata; in others horizontal, 

 and in others still A'ery short and decurved and usually hypogreous. 

 Except that in all wet-meadow species the cleistogenes are erect, we 

 can make no correlation between their condition and the nature of 

 their habitat, for in some forms that do not grow in wet spots, as V. 

 emarginata, they are equalh^ erect, while in other dry-ground species 

 they vary much in length. 



In floral characters violets seem to present a great amount of indi- 

 vidual variation, but the difficulty of preserving the blossoms makes 

 satisfactory comparisons on a large scale practically impossible. 

 While a certain tint of blue or purple is characteristic of each form, 

 there is also a good deal of individual variation. The marsh forms of 

 the V. cucullata group are all pale blue, but the only colony of V. 

 emarginata that I have studied in flower were almost as pale, though 

 the species grows in dry, sand}^ situations. On the other hand, V. 

 sagittata, from wet meadows, has as dark purple flowers as we find in 

 V. villosa of the dry woodlands, so that in color also we find little 

 correspondence with immediate environment. 



The extent of pubescence on the petals is an important specific char- 

 acter, and varies from V. septemloba, where it is confined to the bases 

 of the lateral petals, to V. sagittata, in which it usually spreads to 

 some extent over all, though sometimes absent from the two upper- 

 most. 



As to relative time of flowering in the vicinity of Philadelphia, V. 

 fimbriatula, villosa and afflnis are the earliest, and are about over when 

 cucullata and dilatata come into bloom, the difference being about two 

 weeks; the other acaulescent blue species begin to blossom about 

 midway between these two groups. 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEIIY OF [Oct., 



With regard to geograpliic distribution of the forms of violets, both 

 caulescent and acaulescent, that I have identified in eastern Pennsyl- 

 vania and southern New Jersey, six are characteristic boreal species, 

 being foiuid abundantly in the highest mountain districts, where the 

 fauna is decidedly Canadian. Of these V. canadensis, V. selkirki, V. 

 renifolia are restricted to this region, but V. rostrata, V. leconteana 

 and V. roundijolia extend much farther south in suitable locations, 

 the last two reaching the southeastern corner of Pennsylvania. V. 

 muhlenhergii, V. cucullata and V. scabriuscula also occur in the higher 

 Alleghanies, but are equally as plentiful about Philadelphia. 



Another group of species seems to be decidedly southern, and is 

 limited to the low gi'oimds of the lower Delaware and Susquehanna 

 valleys or the coastal region of New Jersey, in the Carolinian faunal 

 belt, viz., V. brittoniana, V. lanceolata, V. septemloha and V. rafinesquii. 



The other forms, including the various forms of V. palmata and fim- 

 hriatida, seem to range indiscriminately over the intervening country, 

 most of them spreading over the habitat of the last group as well. 



The Violets of Philadelphia and Vicinity. 



The following synopsis is the result of several years' study, during 

 which time a series of several thousand specimens has been collected 

 and preserved and many observations upon hving plants recorded. 

 Undoubtedly further investigations will detect additional forms, and 

 this list is not claimed to be complete but rather a basis for future 

 work, in the behef that local studies of the genus will aid us in 

 eventually gaining a better imderstanding of its species. 



In the identification of the species I have to express my deep in- 

 debtedness to Prof. Edward L. Greene, the leading authority on the 

 genus, who veiy kindly examined a series of my specimens and gave 

 me his views upon their relationship, and also to Mr. Charles Louis 

 Pollard, who has from time to time identified specimens for me. 

 The tj'pes of Nuttall, Schweinitz and Muhlenberg in the herbarium of 

 the Academy have thro^^i much light on the application of some 

 of the older names. 



We may consider the species in two main groups : 



I. Acaulescent species, leaf petioles and flower scapes both arising 

 from the root-stalk (p. 665). 



II. Caulescent species, with a leafy stem upon which the flowers are 

 produced (p. 686). 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 665 



I. Acaulescent Species. 



I. — Plants producing stolons after the flowering season. 



a. — Flowers yellow, V. rotundifolia. 



aa. — Flowers white. 



h. — Leaves cordate at base, cleistogenes on horizontal pe- 

 duncles. 

 c. — Petioles and scapes spotted with red, V. leconteana. 

 CO. — Petioles and scapes unspotted, . . . V. blanda. 

 6ft.^Leaves decurrent on the petiole, cleistogenes erect. 



c. — Leaves oval, V. ovata. 



CO. — Leaves lanceolate, V. lanceolata. 



11. — Plants not stoloniferous, flowers blue. 

 a. — Leaves more or less lobed or cut. 

 6. — Leaves and petioles pubescent. 



c. — Lobes not deeply cut, only about half-way to the base, 



V. pabnata. 

 cc. — Lobes deeply cut, nearly to the base, 



V. p. dilatata, variabilis and angellce. 

 hb. — Leaves and petioles nearly or quite glabrous, 

 c. — Middle lobe undivided, no cleistogenes, 



V. pedata and subsp. 

 cc. — Middle lobe divided in three, cleistogenes present. 

 d. — Leaves large; lobes broad, much narrowed at 



base, V. septemloba. 



dd. — Leaves medium, lobes nearly linear, 



V. brittoniana. 

 aa. — Leaves not lobed, never coarsely toothed or sagittate at the 

 base. 

 b. — Leaves strongly hispid-pubescent above, glabrous below 



and on petiole, V. villosa cordifolia. 



bb. — Leaves pubescent, on blade and petiole, 



cf. V. palmata dilatata and V. fimbriatula aberrans. 

 bbb. — Tjcaves glabrous or very nearly so. 

 c. — Cleistogenes on erect pedicels. 



d. — Leaves cordate-ovate, plants medium or large, 



V. cucullata and subsp. 

 dd. — Leaves nearly trianguh.i-. plants small, 



V. a'enulata. 

 cc. — Cleistogenes deflexed or horizontal. 



d. — Leaves broadly cordate or reniform, apex not 

 produced, flowers deep purple. 



V. papilionacea . 

 dd. — Leaves more triangular, apex attenuate, flowers 



pale lilac, V . affinis. 



aaa. — Leaves sagittate, triangular or oval, usually with several 

 coarse teeth at the base. 

 Leaves sagittate, usually glabrous, . . . . V. sagiUata. 

 Leaves oval, or with truncate base, strongly pubescent, 



V. iimbriatula. 

 Leaves triangular, thick, fleshy, glabrous. . F. emarginata 




666 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct , 



The yellow and white acaulescent violets in the vicinity of Philadel- 

 phia are referable to five described species, all of which are sharply 

 separated with the exception of the blcmda-leconteana group, which will 

 upon further study imdoubtedly resolve itself into several well-marked 

 races. In fact. Prof. Greene tells me that the violet here described as 

 V. blanda is certainly not typical of that species, but as it is not my 

 intention here to propose any new names, I let it stand pending a 

 more exhaustive study of this group. 



The blue-flowered species, as already stated, constitute the most 

 puzzling group of the genus. Apart from the aberrant V. pedata, the 

 species fall naturally into three sections typified b}' T^. papilionacea 

 (Pis. XXXI-XXXII), palmata (PI. XXXIII-XXXV) and fimbriatula 

 (PI. XXXVI-XXXVII), though it must be confessed that V. villosa 

 is practically midway between the first and second groups, and that 

 some forms of V. emarginata recall the T". palmata group. V. selkirki, 

 of the high Alleghanies, stands quite apart with more the habit of the 

 white-flowered species. 



1. Viola rotundifolia Michaux. 



Viola rotundifolia Michaux, 1803, Flora Bor. Amer., II, p. 1.50. 

 Viola clandestina Pursh, 1814, Flora Am. Sept., I, p. 173. 



Range. — ^lountainous regions extending southward in suitable loca- 

 tions, reaching the valleys of Wissahickon and Crum creeks in Phila- 

 delphia and Delaw^are counties, where it occurs sparingly, and at one 

 or two points in Montgomery county along the Schuylkill. In New 

 Jersey, according to Dr. Britton's Catalogue, it reaches the lower part 

 of Hunterdon and upper Monmouth counties. In its southernmost 

 stations it usually grows under hemlocks, which are the prevalent 

 trees in the true home of the species in the mountains. 



Habitat. — Damp banks in deep shade. 



Description. — Early flowering plant. Crum creek, Delaware county. 

 Pa., April 13, 1902. No. 2,.537, Herb. W. S. Flowers bright yellow, 

 lateral and lower petals with fine dark brown lines, which in the former 

 are confined to the lower edge, and immediately above them is a small 

 patch of white hairs; sepals linear, oblong, obtuse; scape 60 mm. long, 

 almost glabrous. Leaves involute, not yet expanded, and in some 

 instances scarcely visible above the ground, pale green, 25 x 30 mm., 

 crenate, minutely puberulent above, petiole 30 mm., slightly pubescent, 

 or in very young leaves glabrous. Fruiting plant, Crum creek. May 30, 

 1901. No. 1,180, Herb. W. S. Scape 45 mm., capsule 8 mm., segments 

 keeled. Leaves flat on the ground, ovate, the latest ones orbicular, 

 80 X 60 mm., crenate, light green above with minute scattered hairs. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 667 



pale and glabrous beneath, except on the basal part of the midril^ which, 

 wdth the petiole (60 mm.), is distinctly pubescent. These specimens 

 bear "stolons" 100 mm. long, which I have not found rooting, but 

 which bear several small lanceolate bracts and a leaf 25 x 35 mm., with 

 several cleistogenes on very short pedicels. Still later specimens, Au- 

 gust 4, have the leaves darker green and nearly or quite glabrous, as 

 are the petioles; cleistogenes in fruit, nearly ripe. 



2, Viola blanda Willd. 



Viola blanda Willdenow, 1806, Hortus Berolien. PI. XXIV. 



Range. — Through southeastern Pennsylvania and southern New 

 Jersey, west of the pine barrens ; the records of its occurrence toward 

 the mountains are in part confused ■\\'ith V. leconteana. Rather local, 

 though not rare about Philadelphia. 



Habitat. — Low woodlands in moist ground along streams; usually 

 growing in large colonies. 



Description. — Early flowering plant. Sherwood, Philadelphia, 

 April 10, 1903. No. 5,159, Herb. W. S. Root-stalk slender with dried 

 stolons of previous year still adherent. Flowers white, somewhat fra- 

 grant, 10 mm. broad, lower petal heavily lined with dark purple and 

 lateral petals with two or three lines, all glabrous; sepals lanceolate, 

 acute. Leaves thin, lighter beneath, glabrous; crenate, orbicular or 

 the earliest rcniform, cordate at base, 25 x 30 mm.; petioles 40 mm., 

 glabrous. 



Fruiting plants, Sherwood, June 17, 1903. No. 5,160, Herb. W. S. 

 Tvcaves very thin, ^^■ith a few scattered hairs above and on the veins 

 beneath, size 80x90 mm.; petioles glabrous, 180 mm. long. Stolons 

 very slender, 130 mm., still without leaves. Cleistogenes on some 

 plants only, and very slender, their scapes 15 mm. long, horizontal. 

 In later specimens, August 18, from Chester county, Pennsylvania, 

 the stolons bear small leaves and a few minute cleistogenes. The 

 sinus becomes much more open in the late summer lea^■es. 



3. Viola leconteana Don. 



Viola ainoena Le Conte, 1828, Ann. Lvc. N. Y., II, p. 144 (nee Symonds, 



1798). 

 Viola leconteana Don, 1831, Gen. Syst., I, p. 324. 

 Viola ahophila Greene, 1899, Pittonia, IV, p. 7. 



Range. — Abundant in the mountains, extending southward in cold 

 rocky woods to the lower Susquehanna in York and Lancaster counties, 

 and the Brandywine below Chadd's Ford, Delaware count}". 



Habitat usually on damp shad}^ rocky banks, though in the mountains 

 it is found pretty generally throughout the forests, and is the most 

 abundant violet. 




668 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Description. — Specimen in full flower. Chadd's Ford, I\lay 10, 1902, 

 B. H. Smith. No. 5,172, Herb. W. S. Flowers similar to the last, 

 but 15 mm. broad; scapes 100 mm. long, spotted with red. Earliest 

 leaves 25 x 25 mm., reniform, orbicular or somewhat ovate ; later leaves 

 ovate, 40 x 50 mm., slightly pubescent above, glabrous below; petioles 

 red-spotted, 50 mm. long, glabrous. Scapes of the cleistogenes 25 

 mm. in length. Late simimer fruiting plants have the leaves all ovate, 

 usually rather acuminate, but they do not exceed 50 x 60 mm. in size; 

 petioles, however, vary to 150 mm. in length. 



As already stated, this and the preceding need more careful study, 

 but I have not the necessary material at hand. 



In the higher Alleghanies (Sullivan and Wyoming counties, also 

 Fulton — Porter), Viola renifolia Gray grows with V. leconteana, 

 and in its later stages bears considerable resemblance to it, as 

 the leaves often become decidedly ovate in outline. The bristly 

 pubescence of the petiole and veins on the under surface of the leaf, 

 however, are in marked contrast to the smoothness of these parts in 

 V. leconteana, while the upper surface in V. renifolia at this season is 

 glabrous, instead of sparsely pubescent, as in the other species. 



V. leconteana seems to be the most stoloniferous of any of the white 

 acaulescent violets, but all of the blanda group exceed V. primulcefolia 

 and lanceolata in this respect. 



4. Viola primulaefolia Linn. 



Viola 'primulcefolia Linn., 1753, Sp. Plant., pi. 934. 

 Viola p. boscii D. C, 1824, Prodromus, I, p. 293. 

 Viola p. cordata D. C., 1824, Prodromus, I, p. 293. 



Range. — ^The southeastern coimties of Pennsylvania, as well as in 

 boggy places in Monroe county, and abundant in southern New Jersey, 

 except the pine barrens, where it is replaced very largely by the next. 



Habitat. — Open moist ground. 



Description. — Early flowering plant. Tinicinn, Delaware county, 

 Pcnnsjdvania, April 25, 1903. No. 5,153, Herb. W. S. Flowers white, 

 10 mm. broad, the lower petal strongly, the laterals slightly veined 

 with dark purple, all glabrous; sepals lanceolate-acute; scape 40. mm., 

 glabrous. Leaf ovate-oblong or oval, base decurrent; crenulate, 15 x 20 

 to 20 X 25 mm., glabrous, except base of mid vein beneath and petiole 

 which are pubescent, petiole 10 to 15 mm. 



Older flowering plant. Tinicum, ^lay 9. No. 5,154, Herb. W. S. 

 Scapes 90 mm. Leaves almost or quite glabrous thoughout, 35 x 23 

 mm., petiole 40 mm. Cleistogenes erect on scapes 20 mm. long. 



Fruiting plant. Tinicmn, June 21, 1903. No. 5,155, Herb. W. S. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 669 



Fruiting scapes 140 mm. long. Leaves 50 x 70, glabrous ; petioles 1 50 

 mm. long, glabrous or with a few scattered hairs. Stolons just sprout- 

 ing. 50 to 60 mm. long. In July and August specimens the stolons 

 bear leaves 20 x 25 mm. on petioles 50 mm. in length, as well as small 

 cleistogenes. In specimens from Willow Grove, Montgomery county, 

 Pennsylvania, the main leaves reach the dimensions of 60 x 100 mm. 

 on petioles 160 mm. in length, while the erect cleistogenes are on 

 pubescent scapes 80 mm. long. 



This species and the next are open-bog or wet-meadow violets, 

 forming a very distinct group from the woodland, rocky-bank species 

 which precede; and seem to be the southern representatives of the 

 hlcmda group. We have thus two austral species and three boreal 

 ones, the members of each group more closely related inter se than 

 they are to any species of the other group. Among vertebrates in a 

 similarly distributed lot of forms we should expect to find boreal and 

 austral derivatives of the several types, but as before stated, in plants 

 we seem to find that the most recent differentiations have taken place 

 within the same life-zone, and that they are not zonal in their origin or 

 distribution. 



5. Viola lanceolata Linn. 



Viola lanceolata Linn., 1753, Sp. Plant., pi. 953. 



Viola attenuata "Sweet" Don, 1831, Gen. Syst., I, p. 322. 



Range. — The southeastern counties of Pennsylvania, mainly along 

 the Delaware and Susquehanna (also Monroe county — Porter), and 

 abundant throughout southern New Jersey, where it is the most char- 

 acteristic species of the pine-barren bogs, also up the Delaware to 

 Warren county (Britton). About Philadelphia it is found only in the 

 low grounds along the Delaware. 



Habitat. — Wet open bogs or meadows, often growing with V. pri- 

 mulcefolia, and sometimes approaching it in early leaf-forms, but the 

 flowers are always larger, and the later leaves abundantly distinct. 



Description. — Early flowering plant. Tinicum, Delaware county, 

 Pennsylvania, May 9, 1903. No. 5,156, Herb. W. S. Flowers 15 mm. 

 wide, white, the lower petal strongly purple- veined, the laterals with 

 one or two streaks; glabrous; sepals narrowly linear, acute, scapes 

 glabrous, 100 mm. long. Leaves ovate-lanceolate, decurrent at base, 

 35 x 12 mm., obscurely crenulate glabrous, petioles glabrous, 30-40 

 mm. Cleistogenes on scapes 30 mm. long. 



Later plants have leaves lanceolate, gradually decurrent, length 

 including petiole 175 mm., width 15 mm. Flower scapes 170 mm. 



Fruiting plant. Tinicum, June 28, 1903. No. 5,157, Herb. W. S. 




670 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.. 



Fruiting scapes 110 mm. Total length of leaves 180-320 mm., width 

 20-30 mm. Stolons 100 mm. in length on some plants bearing typical 

 leaves and minute clcistogenes. 



Viola sekirkii "Pursh" Goldie, which in foliage and general appear- 

 ance resemble the blanda group, but differs in its pale blue flowers, 

 grows plentifully in damp rocky situations in the hemlock forests of 

 Sullivan and Wyoming counties, Pennsylvania, on the North Moun- 

 tain; and has also been found in Monroe and Somerset counties 

 (Porter). 



6. Viola papilionacea Pursh. (PI. XXXII, fig. i; PI. XXXVIII, fig. iii.) 



Viola papiliono.cea Pursh, 1814, Flor. Amer. Sept., I, p. 173. 

 Viola communis Pollard, 1898, Bot. Gazette, XXVI, p. 336 {nee Wittrock). 

 Viola domestica BickneU, 1898, in Britton and BrowTi, 111. Flora, III, p. 519. 

 Viola obliqua Britton and Brown, 1898, 111. Flora, II, p. 447 (nee Hill). 



Range. — The commonest violet through eastern Pennsylvania and 

 New Jersey, though apparently not found on the higher Alleghanies, 

 or in the pine barrens. 



Habitat. — Meadows, fields, fence-rows, etc., also in low woodland. 



Description. — Early flowering plant. Sherwood, Philadelphia, 

 April 10, 1903. No. 5,119, Herb. W.S. Root-stalk thick and ribbed. 

 Flower 20 mm. wide, deep violet-purple ("violet" of Ridgway's 

 Nomenclature of Colors), the petals white at the base, the lower and 

 lateral ones with dark lines, the latter also with a round patch of 

 white hairs which is confined to the white basal area, other petals 

 glabrous ; the two upper ones usually recurved ; sepals ovate-lanceo- 

 late, rather blunt; scape glabrous, 60 mm. long. Leaves cucullate, 

 cordate in outline and distinctly crenate, 25x30 mm., glabrous; 

 petiole pubescent on convex side, 40 mm. in length. 



Later flowering plant. Media, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 

 26,1903. No. 5,121, Herb. W. S. Exactly like the last, but leaves 

 40 x 50, petioles 80 mm., and scapes 100 mm. 



Fruiting specimen. Media, June 4, 1903. No.5,122, Herb. W. S. 

 Leaves somewhat doubly crenate, 110 x 120 mm., petiole 275 mm., 

 otherwise as before, fruiting scapes 80 mm. (apparently from cleisto- 

 genes). Other specimens, Sherwood, May 17, 1903, have cleistogenes 

 in all stages of development on decurved peduncles 20 mm. in length, 

 leaves 80 x 90 mm. 



The general tendency in old leaves is to become widespread at the 

 base, as contrasted with the narrow sinus of the early flowering season ; 

 and I can see no other character in V. domestica Bicknell that is not 

 attributable to the rich soil of cultivated ground. Many other 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 671 



species will become distinctly ranker than the ^^•ild plant when trans- 

 ferred to rich garden soil. 



The above descriptions of T^. papilionacea are taken from two colonies 

 only. Many others examined agreed with them exactly in leaf char- 

 acters, bnt a further examination may show some variation in shape 

 of petals, extent of pubescence, etc., which I have not yet detected. 

 The petals are usually recurved, sometimes very markedly so, as in 

 specimens from the hilly woods bordering the Schuylkill at Gladwyn 

 in which they are quite long and narrow. Woodland plants have 

 usually bluer flowers. 



As to the proper name for this species, I agree with Prof. Greene and 

 ^Ir. Pollard in their latest decision that papilionacea Pursh is the earli- 

 est name based upon the present plant. It has a further advantage in 

 apparently never having been used b}^ subsequent authors for any 

 other species, a decided point in its favor! 



7. Viola papilionacea subsp. 



I have found in dry upland woodland on Crum creek, Delaware 

 county, a quite distinct ally of V. papilionacea, with a lighter root- 

 stalk and more delicate foliage. Leaves more acuminate and rather 

 more coarsely crenate, glabrous except for minute silvery appressed 

 hairs scattered along the veins above; petioles glabrous, 180 nun. long; 

 cleistogenes horizontal, not recurved ; scapes 60 mm. in length. Only 

 having fruiting specimens, May 17, 1903, No. 5,126, Herb., W. S., I 

 am vmable as yet to properly describe this form. Prof. Greene regards 

 it as a distinct species. 



8. Viola affinis Le Conte. (PI. XXXI, fig. ii.) 



Viola ^.finis Le Conte, 1828, Ann. Lye. N. Y., II, p. 138. 



Viola obliqua Pollard, 1901, in Britton's Manual, p. 636 {nee Hill). 



Range. — Southeastern Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey ex- 

 clusive of the pine barrens, apparently not extending to the mountains. 



Habitat. — Rich woodlands. 



Description. — Early flowering plant. Sherwood, Philadelphia, April 

 19, 1903. No. 5,103, Herb. W. S. Flowers 20 mm. in diameter, pale 

 lilac ("hlac" of Ridgway) , deepening into blue just at the junction with 

 the white throat, darker purple veins on lower and lateral petals, 

 bearding on lateral petals not entirely confined to the white area, but 

 extending a little way on to the blue ; lower petals slightly hairy at 

 base; sepals ovate-lanceolate, acuminate; scapes 60-70 mm. long, 

 glabrous. liCaves rather light green, somewhat cucullate; cordate, or 




672 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



usually nearly triangular, 20 x 25 mm., rather coarsely crenate, 

 glabrous; petioles 40-50 mm., glabrous. 



Later specimens, Sherwood, April 29, 1903. No. 5,104, Herb. W. S. 

 Scapes 70-100 mm. Leaves 30 x 40, wider at base and more attenuate 

 at apex, cucullate and coarsely crenate, petioles 60-90 mm. A few 

 clcistogenes present on scapes 25 mm. long. 



Fruiting plants, Sherwood, June 17, 1903. No. 5,105, Herb. W. S. 

 Leaves 70 x 80, coarsely and irregularly crenate-dentate, sometimes 

 with very minute silvery hairs scattered on the veins above; petioles 

 160 mm., glabrous. Cleistogenes obliquely ascending or later deflexed, 

 peduncles not more than 50 mm. long. 



This species is well characterized by its general slenderness, thin, 

 glabrous leaves, with coarsely crenate margins and pale flowers. At 

 Sherwood it grows with V. villosa cordifolia and V. palmata dilatata 

 in about equal abundance, and the three can be distinguished at a 

 glance by foliage alone — V. afjinis always glabrous, V. villosa cordi- 

 folia almost hispid-pubescent above, but glabrous beneath and on the 

 petioles, and V. p. dilatata pubescent all over. 



I would strongly advocate the use of Le Conte's name afjinis for this 

 violet. We not only know that this is what he had in view, but the 

 name has been conceded to tliis species- ever since its resurrection until 

 Mr. Pollard, in Britton's Manual, foisted the old much-abused name 

 obliqua of Hill upon it. Nobody knows what Hill's obliqua is, and the 

 fact that no two persons seem to agree is argument enough that it 

 should be discarded as unrecognizable along with cordata Walter and 

 some others. Many other old names are difficult to identify with cer- 

 tainty, but where successive authorities have been in general agree- 

 ment there is strong ground for their retention. To illustrate a little 

 of the obscurity that surrounds obliqua of Hill, we may state that in 

 1896 Mr. Pollard applied it to V. cucullata + papilionacea. In 1898 

 he applied it to some form that he regarded distinct from either; then 

 it was alloted to V. papilionacea, and now is again transferred to afjinis. 

 In marked contrast to his later views Mr. Pollard, when making his 

 first application of the name, states that the species ''is so well figured 

 as to leave not the slightest doubt concerning the plant to which it 

 refers." Prof. Greene, on the other hand, says "it does not half 

 represent any violet that ever grew in any country," and calls atten- 

 tion to the fact that Pursh thought it applied to V. blanda, while Gray 

 at one time suspected it to be V. rotundifolia! I give these opinions 

 of V. obliqua simply to show the futility of attempting to use it in any 

 sense. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 673 



9. Viola cuoullata Ait. (PI. XXXII, fig. ii; PI. XXXVIII, fig. iv.) 

 Viola ciicuUata Alton, 1789, Hortvis Kewensis, III, p. 288. 



Range. — Apparently throughout Pennsylvania and New Jersey, 

 except the pine barrens, though the relative range of this and the two 

 following has still to be worked out. One form at least occurs in the 

 higher Alleghanies. 



Habitat. — Swamps and wet meadows, often growing in the water in 

 spring heads and shallow ditches. Plentiful about Philadelphia. 



Description. — Flowering plant. Tinicum, Delaware county, Penn- 

 sylvania, May 9, 1903. No. 5,128, Herb. W. S. Flowers 20-25 mm. 

 broad, pale blue ("campanula blue" of Ridgway) becoming darker 

 toward the throat, which is white; lower and lateral petals lined with 

 purple, the former glabrous, the latter with restricted patches of white 

 beard; sepals rather long, lanceolate, acuminate; scapes glabrous, 150- 

 180 mm. long. Leaves cucullate, cordate-ovate, crenate, glabrous, 

 35 X 45 mm. (the earliest more nearly orbicular, 25 x 30) ; petioles 80-90 

 mm., glabrous; peduncles of cleistogenes already 20 mm. in length. 



Fruiting plant. Tinicum, May 23, 1903. No. 5,129, Herb. W. S. 

 Leaves strongly cucullate, with very minute silvery hairs scattered 

 along the veins above, otherwise glabrous; coarsely but regularly 

 crenate, 70 x 75 mm. ; petioles 260 mm. 



Fruiting scapes and cleistogenes 225-300 mm. long. Some later 

 fruiting cleistogenes (June 28) have pedmicles 350 mm. in length. 



This species is distinguished by its very long flower scapes and the 

 enormous length attained by both scapes and petioles in fruiting 

 plants. The cleistogenes are strictly erect, and the blades of the leaves 

 never reach the size of V. papilionacea; the blue, not purple, flowers 

 are also characteristic. The two races which follow are closely re- 

 lated, and have not yet been studied from very large series. Think- 

 ing the specimens I had might be different from V. cucuUata — especially 

 No. 5,132 — I submitted them to Prof. Greene, and he identified them 

 as his new species V. macrntis and V. leptosepala. 



10. Viola cucuUata macrotis (Greene). 



Viola macrotis Greene, 1902, Pittonia, V, p. 97. 



Range. — Shady swampy spots in western New Jersey, between the 

 pine barrens and the Delaware; doubtless elsewhere as well. 



Description. — Flowering plants, Medford, New Jersey, May 5, 1903. 

 No. 1004, Herb. W. S. Similar to cucuUata, but flowers larger; 

 petals very broad; leaves usually with larger blades, less cucullate and 

 thinner; sepals minutely ciliate on the margins, and scapes and petioles 

 often with a few scattered hairs. 

 43 




674 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



11. Viola cucuUata leptosepala (Greene). 



Viola leptosepala Greene, 1902, Pittonia, V, p. 98. 



Range.—Sha.dj bogs, western New Jersey; probably more extended. 



Description. — Flowering plants, Springvale, Camden county, New 

 Jersey, May 10, 1903. No. 5,132, Herb. W. S. Generally similar to 

 cucullata, but much more slender and delicate and plants solitary; 

 leaves more elongate; flowers large, with remarkably long, slender 

 sepals, 12 mm. long and less than 2 in width. Scapes and petioles 

 very slender and with scattered hairs, most plentiful on the lower part. 



12. Viola crenulata Greene. (PI. XXXII, fig. iii.) 



Viola crenulata Greene, 1901, Pittonia, IV, p. 295. 



Range. — Only detected in Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, 

 as yet. 



Habitat. — Open wet meadows and swamps, but in drier spots than 

 V. cucullata. 



Description. — Flowering plant. Tinicum, Delaware county, Penn- 

 sylvania, April 25, 1903. No. 5,127, Herb., W. S. Flowers pale lilac- 

 blue, darker near the base of the petals, throat white, 12 mm. in diam- 

 eter; petals slender, the lower rather broad, slightly pubescent at base: 

 laterals with conspicuous bearded patch; sepals slender lanceolate; 

 scapes 80 mm., glabrous. Leaves triangular-cordate, much attenuated 

 at apex, pale green, glabrous, except for very minute appressed scat- 

 tered hairs on the veins above, size 20 x 28, coarsely crenate (earliest 

 leaves less pointed); petioles 50 mm.; cleistogenes already 25 mm. 

 high. 



Late summer plants (August 15, 1903), past the fruiting stage, have 

 leaves 35 x 40, but otherwise exactly like the earlier ones; petioles 

 90 mm. long, which evidently represents the maximum growth of this 

 little plant. 



This delicate little violet, while related to the cucullata group, is 

 verj'' distinct, differing in the color of both flowers and leaves, in the 

 shape of the latter and the very small size, being smaller in late summer 

 than V. cucuUata when it is in early flower. The April specimens above 

 described had evidently been in flower some time, as evidenced by 

 the development of the cleistogenes. 



13. Viola villosa cordifolia Nutt. (PL XXXI, fig. i.) 



Viola villosa cordifolia Nuttall, 1818, Genera, I, p. 148. 

 Viola sororia nuttallii Don, 1831, Gen. Syst., I, p. 324. 

 Viola cucullata var. cordata Gray, Manual, 5th ed., p. 78, in part (prob. not 



cor data Walter). 

 Viola ciliata Muhl., 1813, Cat., p. 26. 



Range. — Pennsylvania, apparently not extending to the higher 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 675 



mountains ; the northern and middle counties of New Jersey, and rarely 

 in Camden county, but not in the pine barrens. 



Habitat.— High, dry woodland. 



Description. — Early flowering plant. Sherwood, Philadelphia, April 

 10, 1903. No. 5,100 Herb. W. S. Flowers red-purple (near ''aster- 

 purple" of Ridgway), white in the throat; but slightly veined; upper 

 petals rounded, not at all recurved; lateral petals bearded near the 

 base, as in affinis, but lower petal often nearly glabrous; width of 

 flowers 15-18 mm.; sepals lanceolate or ovate-lanceolate, rather 

 obtuse; scapes 40-50 mm., glabrous. Leaves dark green, silvery- 

 pubescent above, glabrous and reddish beneath, and frequently pros- 

 trate on the ground ; reniform orbicular or cordate, crenate, 20 x 25 

 mm.; petioles 30-40 mm., glabrous and reddish at base. Later speci- 

 mens, April 29, have leaves ovate-cordate, 25 x 35 mm., and bear 

 horizontal cleistogenes on pedimcles 30 mm. long. 



Fruiting plant, Sherwood, June 17, 1903. No. 5,102, Herb., W. S. 

 Leaves round-cordate, 65x70 mm.; petioles 110 mm. long; fruiting 

 scapes 60 mm. These later leaves are usually erect, and not prostrate 

 like the earliest ones, and are sometimes slightly cucullate. 



This violet is at all times distinguished by the almost bristly, silvery- 

 pubescence on the upper surface of the leaves and by its dark reddish- 

 purple flowers. There would seem to be two separable forms confused 

 under the name villosa, as Prof. Greene tells me that the plant I have 

 described above is not true villosa, to which I had unhesitatingly 

 referred it, and states that he knows both plants well. The type of 

 villosa came from South Carolina, and if the form found there is dis- 

 tinct from the present plant, Walter's name unquestionably belongs to 

 it. Nuttall seems to have been the only writer to recognize two 

 forms of this type of violet, and he based his V. cordifolia upon speci- 

 mens from "dry woods on the banks of the Schuylkill near Philadel- 

 phia." That his description applies to the above plant seems to me 

 beyond question, and I have, therefore, adopted it. 



An examination of Muhlenberg's herbarium shows that his V. 

 ciliata is either the above or true villosa. That his names as they^ 

 stand are mere nomina nuda is emphasized by the general assumption 

 that in this instance he had V. fitnhriatula in mind! 

 14. Viola palmata Linn. (PI. XXXIV, fig. i; PI. XXXIX, fig. i.) 

 Viola palmata Linnseus, 1753, Sp. Plant., p. 933. 



Range. — So far detected only in Tinicum township, Delaware county, 

 and near Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. 



Habitat. — Dry, shaded locahties. 




676 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Description. — Flowering plant. Tinicuni, Delaware county, Pennsyl- 

 vania, May 3, 1902. No. 2,601, Herb. W. S. Flowers large, 25 mm. 

 broad, deep violet-purple, conspicuously bluer toward the base of the 

 petals, which is white; pubescence restricted to white area on lateral 

 petals; lower petal glabrous ; sepals ovate-lanceolate, broad, and rather 

 blunt; scapes shghtly pubescent, 120 mm. long. Leaves moderately 

 pubescent above and below; earliest 20x25 mm., later ones 45x50 

 mm.; much lobed, but none of the incisions reaching more than 

 half-way to the base; petioles pubescent, 90-120 mm.; cleistogenes 

 on short horizontal peduncles 30 mm. long. 



Later plants, June 28, similar, but leaves nearly glabrous, except on 

 the veins beneath, size 80 x 110 mm.; petioles 180, cleistogenes short, 

 deflexed. Late summer leaves reach the dimensions of 120 x 150 

 mm., with petioles 300 mm. in length. 



The apparent rarity of this violet would make me hesitate in regard- 

 ing it as a separate form were it not for its very distinct characters 

 and the assurance of Prof. Greene. Probably I have not yet discovered 

 its stronghold, or perhaps it is rare in the vicinity of Philadelphia, but 

 plentiful elsewhere. 



15. Viola palmata dilatata Ell. (PI. XXXIII; PI. XXXIX, figs, iv and v.) 



Viola palmata dilatata Elliot, 1817, Bot. of S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300. 

 IViola palmata fragrans Elliot, 1817, Bot. of S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300. 

 iViola palmata vulgaris Elliot, 1817, Bot. of S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300. 

 iViola palmata esculenta Elliot, 1817, Bot. of S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300. 



Viola heterophylla Mulil., 1813, Cat., p. 25 (nee Poiret). 



Viola triloba Schw., 1822, Amer. Jour. Sci., V, p. 57. 

 ?Viola congener Le Conte, 1828, Ann. Lye N. Y., II, p. 140. 

 ?Viola sororia Willdenow, 1806, Hort.'Berol., PI. LXXII. 



Viola asarifolia Pursh, 1814, Flor. Am. Sept., SuppL, p. 732 {nee Muhlen- 

 berg). 



Range. — Eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey exclusive of the 

 pine barrens. 



Habitat. — Dry upland or sandy woods and shady localities. 



Description. — Early flowering plant. Sherwood, Philadelphia, April 

 29, 1903. No. 5,106, Herb. W. S. Flowers large, rich purple, with 

 darker lines on lower petals, w^hite at base of petals; pubescence in 

 rounded patch in white area on lateral petals; lower petal slightly 

 pubescent at base; width of flower 20 mm.; sepals broadly ovate- 

 lanceolate, rather blunt; scapes glabrous, 50-70 mm. long. Leaves 

 30 X 35 mm., cordate, coarsely crenate or variously 3- to 5-lobed, 

 divisions not usually deeply cut ; pubescent on both sides as well as 

 the petioles, which are 40-50 mm. long. 



Later plants, Sherwood, May 17, 1903. No. 5,107, Herb. W. S. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 677 



Similar leaves 50x60 mm.; petioles 100-110 mm.; scapes 90-100 

 mm. ; cleistogenes horizontal or slightly ascending, 20-40 mm. long. 



Fruiting plants, June 17, 70 x 80-80 x 100 mm.; petioles 225 mm. 

 long, fruiting cleistogenes 50-60 mm. long. 



A glance at PL XXXIII will show to what extent the leaves of this 

 violet vary ; all sorts of forms may occur on one plant, or we may have 

 plants with the leaves all uncut. 



The latter are supposed to be the basis of Willdenow's Viola soraria. 

 I fail to see, however, on what grounds this can be regarded as a separa- 

 ble form, even as a subspecies, as is done in Britton's Manual. On 

 the other hand, if we regard it as the same as dilatata. it must supersede 

 it, being an older name. To my mind the same argimients apply here 

 as in the case of V. obliqiia Hill, Nobody can ascertain what the 

 original plant was, and in view of the various uses to which the name 

 has been put, it had best be discarded as unrecognizable. 



The several other varieties given by Elliot are probably not separable 

 from this, and Schweinitz specimens which I have examined prove 

 his triloba to be the same thing, while hetcrophyUa Muhl. and asarifolia 

 Pursh, while probable referable to this, are neither of them available. 

 This is one of the most common woodland violets found about Phila- 

 delphia, and may be recognized from any (except the next) by its 

 uniform pubescence, which is especially marked on verj^ young leaves, 

 though disappearing to some extent on the large foliage of late 

 summer. 



16. Viola palmata variabilis (Greene). 



Viola variabilis Greene, 1902, Pittonia, V, p. 91. 



Range. — Apparently higher ground, nearer to the mountains or ft)ot- 

 hills. 



Habitat. — Dry woodlands. 



Description. — A close ally of the preceding, but smaller and much 

 more pubescent, ciuite villose on young leaves. Flowers similar but 

 leaves more deeply divided and with fewer uncut leaves. Specimens 

 from Argus, Bucks county, Penns^dvania, May 8, 1903, Steward- 

 son Brown, No. 5,110, and June 8, Dr. C. D. Fretz, No. 5.111, Herb. 

 W. S. 



These plants have been identified as V. rariahilis by Prof. Greene, 

 while the former, whicli I have called dilatata, he considers not suffi- 

 ciently pubescent and in other ways luilike this form. It may be that 

 fiui:her study with more material may show that they are not dis- 

 tinguishable. 




678 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



17. Viola palmata angellae (Pollard). (PI. XXXIV, 6g. ii.) 



Viola angellce Pollard, 1902, Torreya, II, No. 2, p. 24. 



Range. — Foimd so far oiily in the neighborhood of Cheyney, Chester 

 county, Pennsylvania. 



Habitat. — Rich woodland. 



This violet (Xo. 3,094, Herb., W. S.) I collected on June 22, 1902, it 

 being then well past the flowering stage. Comparison -^-ith t}'pical spec- 

 imens from Orange, New Jersey, kindly sent me by ]\Iiss Lillie Angell, 

 seems to prove the identity of the two, and Prof. Greene coincides 

 with my identification. All the leaves, even the earliest (which are 

 still retained), are cut, the later ones ha\-ing the incisions rather rounded 

 at the base, and the lobes, except the middle, are ciuite uniform. The 

 difference in the appearance of the leaves between this and the other 

 forms can be seen by comparing the figures on the plate. The petioles 

 and the veins on the midcr side of the leaf are quite pubescent, but the 

 upper sm-f ace is but slightly so. Leaves 70 x 75 mm. ; petioles 

 150-175 mm. long. Cleistogenes on deflexed or i^rostrate peduncles 

 20 mm. in length. 



18. Viola septemloba Le Conte. (PI. XXXV, fig. ii; PI. XXXIX, fig. iii.) 



Viola septemloba Le Conte, 1828, Ann. Lye. X. Y., II, p. 141. 



Range. — Apparently a southern species, ranging across the southern 

 border of Pennsylvania. I have it from Kennett Square and several 

 miles north of Coatesville, both in Chester county. 



Habitat. — Low moist woodland. 



Description. — Flowering plants. Kennett Square, May 7, 190-3, C. J. 

 Pennock. No. 5,112, Herb. W. S. Flowers veiy large, 25 mm. broad, 

 violet-piu-ple, distinctly darker blue near the base of the petals, white 

 basal area Avell developed ; upper petals particularly large, 10 x 20 mm. ; 

 lower petals glabrous and beard on laterals short and restricted; sepals 

 ver^' broad and relatively short; scapes 125 mm. long, glabrous. 

 Leaves all deeply cut, except some of the earliest, in which the in- 

 dentations are slight; segments of the later leaves taper rapidly to 

 scarcely more than a millimeter in 's\ddth at base ; 7 to 9 prmcipal divi- 

 sions; earhest leaves 30x35, later 50x60 mm., glabrous, except for 

 a fringe of very minute hairs on the later leaves : petioles respectively 

 50 and 120 mm., glabrous; cleistogenes 30 mm. long. 



Fruiting specimens. Kennett Square, May 25, 1902. Xo. 5,113, 

 Herb. W. S. Leaves 90 x 100 mm., ^\ith some very minute hairs above 

 and on the margin, but appearing glabrous; petioles 320 mm. long, 

 glabrous; cleistogenes in fruit on peduncles 100 mm. long. 



This beautiful and distinct violet I have long considered to be 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 679 



Le Conte's septemloha, a species not recognized in any of our manuals, 

 and I am much gratified to have Prof. Greene's endorsement and 

 statement that it matches well the water-color drawing of LeConte 

 in his possession. 



Its large flowers, only matched by V. britioniana, its peculiarly lobed, 

 essentially glabrous leaves, and its great size in late summer — some 

 plants measure 15 inches in height — serve easily to distinguish it from 

 any other violet. 



19. Viola brittoniana Pollard. (PI. XXXV, fig. i; PI. XXXIX, fig. ii.) 



Viola atlanfica Britton, 1897, Bull. Torrey Bot. Club, XXIV, p. 92 (nee 



atlantica Pomel, 1874). 

 Viola brittoniana Pollard, 1898, Bot. Gazette, XXVI, p. 332. 



Range. — All along the New Jersey coast, and at points in the south- 

 ern pine barrens (Egg Harbor and Tuckahoe), also up the Delaware 

 valley, occurring at Springdale, Camden county, New Jersey, and 

 Tullytown, Bucks county, Pennsylvania. 



Habitat. — Damp, sandy, open ground. 



Description. — Flowering plant. Springdale, New Jersey, May 10, 

 1903. No. 5,114, Herb. W. S. Flowers very large, 28 mm. across, 

 rich violet, inclining to lilac (somewhat lighter than Ridgway's "aster- 

 purple"), without any deeper blue tint near the base of the petals, such 

 as is found in the preceding cut-leaved species ; white area of the throat 

 extended especially on the upper petals, pubescence on lateral and 

 lower petals short but spreading out beyond the white area, a scatter- 

 ing of hairs on the upper petals as well, sepals narrowly lanceolate- 

 acute; scape glabrous, 125 mm. in length. Leaves all much divided, 

 earliest ones reddish beneath, divisions extending about three-quarters 

 of the distance to the base, middle segment much broader than the 

 others, size 30 x 30 mm. ; later leaves divided to the base into three 

 segments, and each of these again divided almost to the base, making 

 nine irregularly toothed, nearly equal narrow lobes; size 70 x 75. The 

 leaves appear glabrous, but have a scattering of exceedingly minute 

 hah's, scarcely discernible to the naked eye, on the upper surface and 

 margin ; the later leaves are decidedly cucullate ; petioles 90 mm. long, 

 those of earliest leaves 30-40 mm. 



Fruiting plant. Springdale, June 27, 1903. No. 5,115, Herb. W. S. 

 Leaves 70 x 90 mm., petioles 225 mm. ; cleistogenes on erect peduncles 

 150-200 mm. tall. The late foliage seems somewhat harsh to the touch, 

 probably due to the minute marginal pubescence. This very distinct 

 violet seems to have escaped the notice of all the early writere, and 




680 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



had not Dr. Britton been unfortunate in selecting for it a name already 

 used for a foreign species, it would have no synonyms. The foliage 

 represents the extreme of the palmately cut species ; some leaves have 

 the central lobe wider than the others, but the narrow lobes are the rule, 

 and I have yet to see an uncut leaf even among the earliest, though 

 such a reversion is quite likely to occur occasionally in any of these 

 violets. In the uniformly colored flowers and tall, erect cl^istogenes, 

 this species departs widely from all the foregoing. 



In the Springdale colony are one or two stocks which look decidedly 

 different, though obviously brittoniana in whole or in part — if we admit 

 the possibility of occasional hybridism. These have the lobes of the 

 leaves less deeply cut, the central lol^e much wider than the others, 

 and altogether recall strongly the extreme forms of V. emarginata (PL 

 XXX^T, fig. v). The leaf is too round in outline for that species, but the 

 resemblance shows how curiousl}^ interrelated these acaulescent violets 

 are and what cases of parallel development occur. V. brittoniana X V. 

 cucullata would, to my mind, produce just such a plant as this, and at 

 this spot the}' both occur intermingled. On the other hand, it may 

 equally as well be regarded as an aberrant form of T'. brittoniana. 

 The small number of plants and the association with large numbers of 

 the other species should, to my mind, deter any one from naming 

 such a form as this, but I fear they have not always done so in the 

 past. 



20. Viola pedata Linn. 



Viola pedata Linnceus, 17.53, Sp. Plant., p. 933. 

 Viola mulfifida Mill., 1768, Diet., 8 ed. {fide Greene). 

 Viola pedata atropurpurea "Raf." D. C, 1824, Prodr., 1, p. 291. 

 Viola pedata bicolor "Pursh," "Raf." D. C, 1824, Prodr., I, p. 291 (in syn- 

 onymy). 



Range. — I have found this species only near Mortonville, Chester 

 county, Pennsylvania, but have heard of it from other points in this 

 county and Delaware. In Britton's Neiv Jersey Catalogue it is recorded 

 from Phillipsburg, Belvidere and Oxford. 



Habitat. — Dry sandy banks. 



Description. — Without satisfactor}^ material, I may merely say that 

 this differs from the next in having the upper petals deep velvety 

 purple. There may be other differences, but I am not prepared to 

 discuss them. I must confess, however, that I have much doubt 

 whether this is really a distinct form from the next, as they grow so 

 intimately intermingled. In case it is regarded as an individual 

 variation only, then the name pedata will cover them both. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 681 



21. Viola pedata lineariloba D. C. 



Viola pedata lineariloba D. C, 1824, Prodr., I, p. 291. 

 ?Yiola jjedata ranunculi folia D. C. 1824, Prodr., I, p. 291. 

 Viola pedata inornata Greene, 1896, Pittonia, III, p. 35. 



Range. — Southeastern counties of Pennsylvania and in southern New 

 Jersey (apparently not in the typical pine barrens). To the north- 

 ward it ranges to Monroe, Northampton, Lancaster and Huntingdon 

 counties in Pennsylvania (Porter), and to several stations in the north- 

 ern counties of New Jersey — Sussex, Essex, Union, Somerset, Warren 

 and Hunterdon (Britton). 



Habitat. — Dry sandy banks, or sandy open woods and clearings, 

 necessarily local, though often very abundant. The nearest stations 

 to Philadelphia are the serpentine outcrops of Delaware county and 

 sandy pine woods near Springdale, New Jersey. 



Descri'ption. — Early flowering plant, Media, Delaware county, Penn- 

 sylvania, April 26, 1903. No. 5,117, Herb., W. S. Flowers large, flat 

 — i.e., petals nearly in one plane — 20-35 mm. in diameter, all glal^rous, 

 and without darker lines, blue (or occasionally lilac or white), stigma 

 not bearded nor rostrate; sepals long, hnear-lanceolate ; scapes 

 glabrous, 70-90 mm. (stunted plants in very barren soil have them 

 much shorter). Leaves glabrous, all divided into 7 to 11 linear lobes, 

 toothed at the end; the earliest leaves have the lobes less numerous 

 and spatulate; size 15 x 18 mm.; later leaves 25 x 25 mm.; petioles 

 20-50 mm., glabrous. 



Late fruiting plants, Media, June 4. No. 5,118, Herb., W. S. 

 Leaves 45 x 50, petioles 100 mm. long. Fruiting scapes 80 mm. No 

 cleistogenes are produced in this species. 



The variety of size, both in plants and flowers, owing to the nature of 

 the soil, is ver}^ great. I have specimens in full bloom in which the 

 leaves are 2 inches high and the flowers 3, while from another locality 

 I have plants of apparently the same age in which the leaves reach six 

 inches and the flowers 7. Some anomalous plants collected in late 

 summer have very broad segments to the leaf — in fact, th(\v are some- 

 times reduced to coarse teeth — and are minutely pubescent. These 1 

 take to be a second crop of leaves, produced through some unusual ac- 

 tivity, or perhaps due to arrested development in spring, since the 

 leaves usually wither away by midsummer. Such plants have, more- 

 over, been collected in full flower in late August and September. The 

 lobing of Viola pedata and V. p. lineariloba is on a different plan from 

 that exhibited in the foregoing cut-leaved species. In all palmate or 

 pedate violets the primar}'- division is in three parts. In V. palmata dila- 

 tata the process frequently stops at the trilobed stage, but in V. sep- 




682 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



temloha the middle segment regularly divides in three, and the lateral 

 ones into two, while in V. hriitoniana each segment di\ddes into tliree. 

 There are, of course, some deviations, but these are the normal types of 

 leaf in the several species. In the pedata group, however, the central 

 lobe does not di-\dde, while the lateral ones in typical leaves are four- 

 parted. Occasionally V. hrittoniana comes very near to this type by 

 producing only one lateral lobe to the middle segment, and in one leaf 

 in my collection it is undivided. This denotes a tendency toward 

 the pedata type, which must be the extreme of development in this 

 direction. 



If this form is regarded as separable from the preceding it must 

 bear DeCandoUe's name Uneariloba. which has priority over Prof. 

 Greene's inornata. Both are based upon the same plate of Curtis' 

 Botanical Magazine. 

 22. Viola fimbriatula Smith. (PI. XXXVII, figs. i-iiL; PI. XXXVIII, fig. v.) 



Viola priynidcejoUa Pursh, 1814, Flora Am. Sept., I, p. 173 {ncc Linn.). 



Viola fimbriatula Smith, 1817, Rees' Cvolop., XXXVIII. 



Viola ovata Xuttall, 1818, Gen., I, p. 148. 



Viola ovata belvisiatia D. C, 1824, Prodr., I, p. 294. 



Viola sagittata hicksii Pollard, 189-5, Bot. Gazette, XX, p. 326. 



Range. — From the lower mountains to the coast, through eastern 

 Pennsylvania and central and southern Xew Jersey (not plentiful in 

 the pine barrens). 



Habitat. — Dry sand}^ or rocky banks and fields. 



Description. — Flowering plant, ]\Icdia, Delaware county, Pennsyl- 

 vania, April 26, 1903. No. 5,Uo, Herb., W. S. Flowers 10-15 mm. 

 broad, purple (between "aster-purple" and "violet" of Ridgway) ; 

 petals white at the base, the lower one lined with darker; lateral 

 petals wdth conspicuous patch of beard, lower one slightly pubescent; 

 sepals lanceolate ; scape pubescent, 30 mm. long. Leaves ovate- 

 cordate, obscurely crenate, except at base, where teeth are more 

 conspicuous, 15 x 20-18 x 30 ; thick and very pubescent, especially 

 above; decurrent on the petiole, which is also densely pubescent, 

 12-18 mm. long. 



Later flowering specimens have leaves 28 x 45 mm., petioles 35 mm. 

 and scapes 60 mm. in length. 



Fruiting plant. Media, June 4, 1903. No. 5,146, Herb., W. S. Pu- 

 bescent all over; scapes 70 mm.; leaves 45 x 75 mm.; petioles 45-60 

 mm. ; cleistogenes erect, 45 mm. high. 



In some very dry exposed spots this species becomes quite stunted, 

 but flowers profusely. A root from Gladwyn, April 26, has leaves only 

 7 X 12 mm., petioles 5 mm., but bears seven flowers on scapes 35 mm. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 683 



in length. The leaves are always very numerous, and owing to the 

 short petioles — usually less than the blade — they appear very much 

 crowded. Sometimes tlie teeth at the base are scarcely larger than 

 the other crenations, while in other specimens two or three of 

 them are quite prominent, showing an approach to V. sagittata. 



The above descriptions apply to typical V. fimhriaiula, but the plant 

 is exceedingly variable and notwithstanding the fact that in their typi- 

 cal forms the present species and V. sagittata are abundantly distinct, 

 there occur forms which are about as nearly intermediate as they can 

 well be, so that the old practice of making one a subspecies of the other 

 is by no means as absurd as Mr. Pollard would have us believe (Proc. 

 Biol. Soc. Wash., X, p. 89). One form which occurs abundantly near 

 Christiana, Lancaster county (PI. XXXVII, fig. ii), has leaves truty 

 sagittate, 20 x 70 mm., with petioles more than twice as long. The whole 

 plant is strongly pubescent, and the early leaves ovate. Prof. Greene 

 identifies it as "uncommonly long-leaved fimbriatula." The step from 

 this to the pubescent sagittata described beyond is surely very short. 

 It is possible that there may be a separable intermediate form, but the 

 question will bear more study before the true status of these intermedi- 

 ates is determined. In another direction V. fimbriatula approaches 

 the leaf-form of V. papilionacea, and this form which is quite sharply 

 defined has been named by Prof. Greene V. aberrans. 



23. Viola fimbriatula aberrans (Greene). (PI. XXXVII, figs, iv-vi.) 

 Viola aberrans Greene MSS. 



Range. — Apparently coincides with that of the former. 



Habitat. — -Dry sandy and rocky banks, usuall}- with V. fimbriatula, 

 but less abundant, and always easily distinct. 



Description. — ^This is essentially a long petioled V. fimbriatula, with 

 broad, cordate, somewhat cucullate leaves, without strong basal teeth 

 and usually somewhat less pubescent. 



Flowering plant, Media, Pennsylvania, April 26, 1903. No. 5,147, 

 Herb., W. S. Similar to preceding, but leaves IS x 30 mm.; petioles 

 60 mm. ; scapes 100 mm. 



Fruiting plant, Media, June 4. No. 5,148, Herb., W. S. Leaves 

 75 X 100 mm.; petioles 210 mm.; cleistogenes horizontal, 30 mm. long. 



This is a very well-marked form, though not common in the imme- 

 diate vicinity of Philadelphia. Mr. Pollard's V. porteriana does not 

 seem to occur in this vicinity at all, so that I have been unable to 

 study it. I should, however, have very grave doubts about referring 

 it to V. dentata of Pursh, which grows "in wet meadows and woods"! 

 I fail to see the advantage of trying to utilize old names which are 




684 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



coupled with such conflicting statements as this. I am aware that 

 some forms of the fimhriatula group with nearly or entirely glabrous 

 foliage occur in the New Jersey coast districts, but have not as yet had 

 opportunities for studying them. 



24. Viola sagitatta Ait. (PI. XXXVI, figs, i-iii; PI. XXXVIII, fig. i.) 



Viola sagittata Alton, 1789, Hort. Kewensis, III, p. 287. 



Range. — Southeastern Pennsylvania, central and northern New 

 Jersey, southward through the Delaware valley. 



Habitat. — Moist meadows (forms occur also in dry ground). 



Description. — Flowering plant, Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsyl- 

 vania, April 25, 1903. No. 5,133, Herb., W. S. Flower 15-18 mm. 

 broad, dark purple ("violet" of Ridgway); all petals strongly veined 

 wdth a darker shade, bases white, sometimes running out on upper 

 petals to form a white spot at the point where they are reflexed; 

 beard on laterals in a large basal patch, from w^hich a scattered 

 pubescence extends on to the purple area; base of lower and 

 often exposed part of upper petals pubescent; upper petals usually 

 large, rounded and nearly flat, and sometimes emarginate. Sepals 

 linear-lanceolate, acute; scape glabrous, 50 mm. long. Leaves some- 

 what variable, the earliest nearly triangular, the others ovate-oblong 

 or sagittate, generally rounded at the apex, crenate, with two or three 

 prominent teeth at the base, glabrous, 8x12-12x25 mm.; petioles 

 15-45 mm., glabrous. 



Later specimens, Tinicum, ^lay 9, 1903, nearly out of bloom. Foli- 

 age quite glabrous throughout, leaves 12 x 45, sagittate, acute; petioles 

 90-110 mm. ; scapes 100-140. 



Fruiting plants, Tinicum, May 23, 1903. No. 5,135, Herb., W. S. 

 Leaves strongly auriculate-toothed at base, 80 x 20 mm., 40 mm. 

 across base, petioles 150 mm. Cleistogenes erect on peduncles 150 

 mm. tall. Specimens from near Haddonfield, New Jersey, June 27, 

 1903, No. 5,138, Herb., W. S., have leaves 100 mm. long and 60 mm. 

 across the base; petioles 220 mm. These plants are somewhat pu- 

 bescent, notably on the margins of the leaves, and present some forms 

 perplexingly like emarginata (PI. XXXAT, fig. iv). Others, to all 

 appearances sagittata in leaf, form, etc., from dry sandy hillisdes near 

 Newtown Square, Pennsylvania, are quite pubescent on both blades 

 and petioles as well as on the scapes. These require further study. 



25. Viola emarginata Nutt. (PI. XXXVI, figs, iv-v; PI. XXXVIII, fig. ii.) 



Viola emarginata Nuttall, 1818, Genera, I, p. 147. 

 Range. — Southeastern Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey 




1903.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 685 



mainly east of the pine barrens, but quite across the Cape May- 

 peninsula. 



Habitat. — Low sandy ground or sandy woodland. 



Description. — Flowering plants, Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsyl- 

 vania, April 25, 1903. No. 5,141, Herb., W. S. Flowers 15 mm. 

 wide, blue, close to the color of the double cultivated species (between 

 "campanula blue" and "mauve" of Ridgway), base white, lower 

 and laterals with dark lines, beard spreading from the basal spots on 

 to the blue area, lower petal and upper ones as well pubescent with 

 scattered hairs; petals all rather broad and rounded, lower one almost 

 cup-shaped and truncate, all distinctly emarginate; sepals lanceolate- 

 acute; scapes 60-80 mm. Leaves thick, fleshy and glabrous, nearly 

 triangular, crenate, with basal teeth slightly more prominent, decurrent, 

 15x25 mm.; petiole glabrous, 40 mm. Later specimens. May 9, 

 have erect cleistogenes on j^eduncles 75 mm. high. 



Fruiting plants, Tinicum, June 21, 1903. No. 5,143, Herb., W. S. 

 Leaves 50 x 5 mm., strictly triangular, margin dentate-crenate, coarser 

 toward the base, petioles 200 mnu, peduncles of cleistogenes 120 mm. 

 high. 



This seems to be the typical V. emarginata. Other colonies in 

 Cape May county. New Jersey, have the summer leaves very broad 

 across the base, with the teeth enlarged into deep lobes (PI. XXXVI). 

 Still others in Chester county, Pennsylvania, in woodland, develop 

 leaves 90x90 mm., much expanded and lobed at base; petioles 300 

 mm. long ! I have not had the opportunity of studying either of these 

 last in flower, so cannot state whether their blossoms conform in 

 color to the Tinicum plants. The leaves of the Chester county 

 specimens, while still thick and fleshy, are slightly but minutely 

 pubescent. 



The above descriptions will give some idea of the immense varia- 

 bility of the sagittata group, comprising numbers 22-25. V. fimbri- 

 atula seems to be the nearest to the supposed parent or papilionacea 

 type. From it we pass to sagittata, of which emarginata seems to be an 

 extreme development, with apparently a marked deviation in floral 

 characters. The resemblance in leaf-form between emarginata and 

 some aberrant brittoniana has already been commented upon. Whether 

 the apparent intergrades which serve to confuse the sagittata group 

 are really such, or the extremes of a somewhat variable species, is a 

 difficult matter to determine. 




686 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.^ 



II. Caulescent Species. 



I. — Flowers yellow. 



a. — Plants strongly pubescent, V. pubescens. 



aa. — Plants nearly glabrous, V. scahriuscula. 



II. — Flowers lilac-purple, V. muhlenhergii. 



III. — Flowers white or cream-colored, V. striata. 



IV. — Flowers white tinged with yellow and blue, stipules very large 

 and laciniate, leaves small, mostly lanceolate, V. rafinesquii. 



The caulescent violets in the vicinity of Philadelphia are much less 

 variable than the acaulescent forms, and the species are much more 

 sharply defined. 



The yellow- flowered group is the most generally distributed, 



26. Viola pubescens Ait. 



Viola pubescens Alton, 1789, Hort. Kewensis, III, p. 290. 

 Violn -pensylvanica Michaux, 1803, Flor. Bor. Am., II, p. 149. 

 Viola -pubescens eriocarpon Nuttall, 1818, Genera N. A., PL I, p. 150. 



Range. — Southeastern Pennsylvania northward to Pike and Monroe 

 counties (Porter), but apparently not on the higher Alleghanies; in 

 New Jersey throughout the northern counties south to Monmouth 

 (Britton). 



Habitat. — Dry woodland. 



Description. — Flowering plant, El\\yn, Delaware coimty, Pennsyl- 

 vania, April 27, 1902. No. 2,583, Herb., W. S. Stem strongly pubes- 

 cent, almost villous; stipules ovate, acuminate, nearly glabrous, except 

 on the margin; leaves strongly pubescent above and below, reniform, 

 cucullate, dentate, 40 x 55 mm. ; petioles pubescent, 20-35 mm. Flowers 

 yellow, the lower and lateral petals lined with veiy dark purple, a small 

 spot of pubescence near the base of the laterals, 15-18 mm. broad; sep- 

 als linear-lanceolate ; pedicels pubescent, 30-45 mm. long. These plants 

 are about 150 mm. high; about two-thirds up a large leaf branches off 

 dichotomously with the upper part of the stem, usually with a long 

 pediceled axillary flower; the upper part of the stem bears several 

 partly grown leaves and one or two short-stalked flowers; there are 

 no radical leaves. Sometimes two stems rise from the same root, 

 and one is often shorter than the other, bearing only one flower and 

 two leaves. 



Later fruiting plants are 300 mm. high, with four reniform or nearly 

 triangular leaves, successively smaller, and two or three axillary seed- 

 pods on successively shorter pedicels; pod 12 mm. long, sometimes 

 glabrous and sometimes pubescent; the stem is now nearly erect, 

 making the first leaf entirely lateral. There are often one or two 

 reniform radical leaves_on petioles 160 mm. long. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 687 



A specimen from Willow Grove, Montgomery county, Pennsylvania, 

 July 16, 1902, No. 3,319, Herb., W. S., has developed branches at the 

 summits of the fruiting pedicels, which have produced one or two 

 smaller pods, apparently from cleistogamic flowers, and several small 

 leaves, those on the lowest pedicel being orbicular, 20 mm. in diameter. 



It seems certain that Nuttall's var. eriocarpon from Philadelphia 

 is nothing more than an individual variation of this species. The 

 pubescence of the pods is variable and not corollated with any other 

 characters. 



27. Viola scabriuscula Schw. 



Viola scabriuscula Schweinitz, 1822, Am. Jour. Sci., V, p. 75. 



Range. — Southeastern Pennsylvania to the highest mountains of 

 Wyoming county, also northern New Jersey south to Trenton (Britton). 



Habitat. — Damp woods along streams. 



Description. — Flowering plant, Crum creek, Delaware county, Penn- 

 sylvania, April 10, 1903, No. 5,162, Herb., W. S. Stem glabrous or 

 nearly so, often recumbent ; leaves nearly glabrous, but with pubescence 

 on the veins below, finely dentate-crenate,reniform, 20x30 mm. ; stipules 

 similar to puhescens; petiole (of first leaf) 30 mm., glabrous. Flower 

 yellow, closely resembling the preceding species; pedicel glabrous, 20 

 mm. long. Plants 90 mm. in height. The first leaf and its flower 

 clearly overtop the rest of the upper stem in this species at this stage, 

 and the flower of the latter seems to be frequently cleistogamic. In 

 puhescens the two flowers are about on a level and both flower at once. 

 There are always two or three radical, reniform, glabrous leaves on 

 pedicels 30 mm. long, and often several stems from one root. 



Fruiting plants, Crum creek, May 17, 1903. No. 5,164, Herb., W. S. 

 Plants 350 mm. tall, bearing three nearly triangular or slightly reni- 

 form leaves, coarsely dentate, crenate, 50 x 60 mm., with usually one 

 seed-pod and a cleistogamic flower. Pods 10 mm. long, white, woolly 

 or glabrous on contiguous plants. There are usually several smaller 

 radical leaves. The pubescence of the pods seems to be purely an 

 individual character, and is more variable than in V. puhescens. 



Viola hastata occurs on the southern Alleghanies of Pennsylvania, 

 north to Blair county, but not eastward. 



28. Viola striata Ait. 



Viola striata Alton, 1789, Hortus Kewensis, III, p. 290. 

 Viola ochroleuca Schweinitz, 1822, Am. Jour. Sci., V, p. 69. 



Range. — Southeastern Pennsylvania, in the river valleys. Very 

 plentiful in the lower Susquehanna, also on the Brandywine at Chadd's 

 Ford. Near Philadelphia it occurs only at Bartram's Garden, where 




688 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



it is supposed to be native. In New Jersey, south to Trenton 

 (Britton). 



Habitat. — Low ground along streams. 



Description. — Flowering plants, Bartram's Garden, Philadelphia, 

 May 13, 1901. No. 1,083, Herb., W. S. Stem glabrous, several from 

 one root, 150 mm. high; stipules large laciniate, leaves cordate-ovate, 

 crenate, 30x35 mm., glabrous; petioles 20 mm. long, numerous 

 smaller glabrous radical leaves. Flowers creamy-white, 15-20 mm. 

 broad, lower and lateral petals lined with purplish-black, the former 

 well bearded near the base ; stipules linear-lanceolate ; pedicels 50-60 

 mm. long. 



Fruiting plants are 300 mm. high, with leaves 40x40 mm., quite 

 acutely pointed. Some plants produce cleistogamic flowers in the 

 upper axils. 



29. Viola muhlenbergii Torrey. 



Viola canina various American authors (nee European authors). 

 Viola uliginosa Muhlenberg, 1813, Catalogue, p. 26 (nee Schrader). 

 Viola muhlenbergii Torrej', 182-4, Flora U. S., p. 2.56. 

 Viola muhlenhergiana ("Gingins" D. C, 1821, Prodromus, I, p. 297. 



Range. — From the highest Alleghanies to Philadelphia; in New- 

 Jersey, northern counties south to Freehold, and casually in the lower 

 Delaware valley to Salem (Britton). 



Habitat. — Damp woodland, or sometimes open ground. 



Description. — Flowering plant, Crum creek, Delaware county, Penn- 

 sylvania, April 10, 1903. No. 5,165, Herb., W. S. Stems glabrous, 

 somewhat reclining, 70 mm. long, a number from the same root and 

 with numerous radical leaves ; stipules with lacunate margins. Leaves 

 reniform or nearly orbicular, crenate, 15 x 15 mm., lower cauline 18 

 mm. in length. Flowers pale lilac-purple, lower petals lined with black, 

 laterals slightly bearded; sepals linear-lanceolate. The lowest flower 

 is very long-pediceled (50 mm.) and overtops the rest of the plant; 

 there is usually one other true flower and often cleistogenes in the upper 

 axils. 



Fruiting plant, Crum creek. May 17, 1903. No. 5,166, Herb., W. S. 

 Stems 200 mm. high, leaves 30 x 30 mm. Usually two or three fruiting 

 pedicels and a cleistogene on each stem, each shorter than the one 

 below; radical leaves still persistent. 



While this is evidently closely allied to T^. labradorica Schrank., the 

 fact that Prof. Greene has shown that there are several distinct forms 

 of this species in the northeastern part of the country makes it 

 desirable to retain the present name for our plant. It is almost cer- 

 tainly distinct from the Labrador form, but probably may be regarded 

 as a subspecies of it. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 689 



Viola rostrata Pursh is common in the Alleghanies and comes south- 

 ward to Bucks county. Muhlenberg's name is unrecognizable until 

 clearly defined by Pursh; his specimens, however, show that both 

 writers had the same plant in view. 



Viola canadensis Linn, is also abundant in our mountains, and there 

 is a specimen in the Academy herbarium marked Sellersville, Bucks 

 coimty, the farthest south that I have heard of its occurrence. 



30. Viola rafinesquii Greene. 



^' Viola bicolor" and '' arrcnsis" of .«everal American authors (nee European 

 authors). 

 Viola tenelln Muhlenberg, 1813, Catalogue, p. 26 (nee Poiret, 1810). 

 Viola rafinesquii Greene, 1899, Pittonia, IV, p. 9. 



Range. — Along the Susquehanna and Delaware rivers, and abundant 

 at various localities in southern New Jersey outside the pine barrens. 



Habitat. — Low sandy ground. 



Description. — Flowering plants, Nottingham, Chester county, 

 Pennsylvania, near Octoraro creek, May 6, 1902. Benjamin H. Smith. 

 No. 5,171, Herb., W. S. Stems glabrous, 100-150 mm. high, often 

 branching close to the base; stipules conspicuous, deeply cut, lobed; 

 leaves 20 mm., linear-lanceolate or spatulate, the lower nearly orbicu- 

 lar (10x10 mm.), contracted into margined petioles, 8-10 mm. in 

 length, obscurel}' toothed, glabrous. Flowers several in the upper 

 axils on pedicels 25 mm. long, yellowish with a blue tinge, lower petal 

 lined with black, 15-18 mm. wide, sepals rather broadly lanceolate- 

 acute. 



Plants in full fruit May 30, same size as above. No further gro\\'th 

 takes place, and the plants soon wither up. 



Nomenclature and Synony:my. 



Difficult as it is to determine the number of distinct forms that exist 

 among our violets, it is a still harder problem to ascertain what names 

 they should be known by. Some 160 specific or varietal names have 

 been proposed for violets of eastern North America, and as many 

 of these are very meagrely described, it is well-nigh impossible to be 

 sure what forms the authors had in hand. 



In the preceding pages I have entered in the synonymy onl}- such 

 names as seem without reasonable doubt to refer to the species in ques- 

 tion, and have discussed matters of nomenclature only so far as abso- 

 lutely essential to the determination of the proper name to use in each 

 case. In order, however, to satisfactorily cover the synonymy of the 

 genus, I have prepared a list of the names known to me which have 

 been applied to eastern North American violets — both specific and 

 44 




690 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



subspecific — with some comment upon their status, the type locahty 

 and the group to which the name belongs, viz., "A.B." = Acaulescent 

 blue ; /' C. Y. " = Caulescent yellow, etc. 



j\Iany species recently described by Prof. Greene and Mr. Pollard 

 are listed here which do not occm- in the region that I have studied, 

 and I am quite unprepared to discuss their relationship. In order, 

 however, that some idea of their affinities may be obtained, I have 

 given the names of the better known species with w^hich they are 

 compared in the original descriptions. 



I have likewise noted in brackets the reference to the Illustrated 

 Flora of Britton and Brown for all species recognized in that w'ork. 

 Additional species recognized in Britton's Manual have references to 

 that work, and still others which are recognized in the preceding pages 

 are marked accordingly. 



The principal works and papers in which North American species 

 are described or in which the genus is reviewed are : 



LixN.EUs, 1753. Species Plantarum. 



Walter, 1788. Flora Carohna. 



AiTON, 1789, in Hortus Kewensis. 



MiCHAUX, 1803. Flora Boreali-Americana. 



Willdenow, 1806. Hortus Beroliensis. 



Muhlenberg, 1813. Catalogue. 



PuRSH, 1814. Flora Americana Septcntrionale. 



Smith, 1817, in Rees' Cyclopaedia. 



Elliot, 1817. Botany of South Carolina and Georgia, 



NuTTALL, 1818. Genera of N. A. Plants. 



ScHWEiNiTZ, 1822, in American Journal of Science. V. 



DeCandolle, 1824. Prodromus, I. 



Le Coxte, 1828. Annals Lyceum N. Y., 11. 



Don, 1831. General System. 



Gray, 1886. Botanical Gazette, XI, pp. 253-256 and 289-293. 



Pollard. 1896. Proc. Biological Soc. Wash., X, pp. 85-92. 



Pollard, 1898. Botanical Gazette, XXVI, pp. 325-342. 



Pollard, 1901, in Britton's Manual. 



Greene, 1896-1903. Various articles in Pittonia. 



acuta " Bigclow" Torrey. " 1824. Flora U. S., I, p. 253. 



(A.W.) Proposed as a variety of and allied to lanceolata, if not 

 identical. Cambridge, Mass. 

 affinis Le Conte. 1828. Ann. Lye. N. Y., If, p. 138. [Britt. 

 Manual, No. 9.] 

 (A.B.) 

 alabamensis Pollard. 1900. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., p. 169. 

 (A.B;) Allied to villosa and Carolina. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 691 



alba Thurber? 



(A.B.) A mere white form of pedata, of which it is styled a 

 variety. 

 albiflora Don. 1831. Gen. Syst., I, p. 320. 



(A.B.) A mere white form of septemloba Le Conte. 

 albiflora Don. 1831. Gen. Syst., I, p. 321. 



(A.B.) A similar variant of "heterophyUa Muhl." Other albinos 

 have also been so named. 

 alleghaniensis Roem and Schult. Syst., 5, p. 560. 



( ) Quoted by DeCandolle. I have been unable to verify it. 

 alsophila Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV, p. 7. 



(A.W.) New name for amcena Le C. See leconteana Don. 

 amoena Le Conte. 1828. Ann. Lye. N. Y., II, p. 144. 



(A.W.) Antedated by amaina Symons, 1798, Syn. PI. Brit., 

 p. 198. See leconteana. 

 amorphophylla Pollard. 1900. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., p. 129. 



(A.B.) Related to sagittata. Tryon, N. Carolina. 

 angelhc Pollard. 1902. Torreya, II, No. 2, p. 24. [antea, p. 678.] 



(A.B.) Orange, New Jersey. 

 arenaria D. C. 1805. Flor. France, IV, p. 806. [111. Flor., 2,508.] 



(C.B.) A European species credited to North America. 

 arvensis. 



(C.B.) A European species found also in North America, 

 asari/o/ta Muhlenberg. 1813. Cat., p. 26. 



(C.B.) Not recognizable [specimens = muhlenbergn]. 

 asarifolia Pursh. 1814. Flor. Amer. Sept. Suppl., p. 732. 



(A.B.) Antedated by asarifolia Muhl., 1813. Virginia to Caro- 

 lina. 

 atlantica Britton. 1897. Bull. Torrey Bot. Club., XXIX, p. 92. 



(A.B.) Antedated by atlantica Pomel, 1874. See brittoniana 

 Pollard. East Massachusetts to south New Jersey. 

 atropurpurea "Raf." D.C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 291. 



(A.B.) Proposed as a variety of pedata, and a pure synonym of 

 true pedata. 

 attenuata "Sv.^eet" Bon. 1831. Gen. Syst., I, p. 322. 



(A.W.) Proposed for lanceolata Pursh, which he regards as dif- 

 ferent from lanceolata Linn. The name does not occur in Sweet 

 Hort. Brit., 1826, p. 37, to which reference is made. 

 australis Pollard. 1898. Bot. Gazette, XXVI, p. 342. 



(A.W.) Proposed as a race of primulas folia. Duval county, 

 Florida. 

 barbata Muhlenberg. 1813. Cat., p. 26. 



(A.B.) Unrecognizable. 

 barbata "WiM." D.C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 292. 



(A.B.) Nomen nudum in svnonvmv under papilionacea. 

 belvisiana D. C. 1824. Prodr.^ I. p' 294. 



(A.B.) As a race of ovata "in mont. editioribus VirginicB." 

 bernardi Greene. 1898. Pittonia, III. p. 260. [Britt. Manual, No. 4.] 



(A.B.) As a race of pedatifida. southern Wisconsin. 




692 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



hicolor Piirsh. 1814. Flor. Amer. Sept., I, p. 175. 



(C.W. or B.) Antedated by hicolor Hoffman. Fl. Germ., II. 

 p. 170, which Piirsh probably mtended to quote. 

 6tco/o/- "Piu-sh," Raf., D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 291. 



(A.B.) As synonym under pedata atropurpurea Raf. nomen 

 nudum, 

 blanda Willdenow. 1806. Hort. Berohen, PI. XXI\'. [lU. Flor., 

 2,497.] 

 (A.W.) 

 boscii D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 293. 



(A.W.) As a race of primulce folia, and apparently identical with 

 it. Carolina. 

 hrainerdii Greene. 1902. Pittonia. \, p. 89. 



(A.W.) =" Specimens Xo. 17, Distribution X. A. Violets." 

 A'ermont . 

 hrittoniana Pollard. 1898. Bot. Gazette. XXVI, p. 332. [111. Flor.. 

 2,485.] 

 (A.B.) Xcw name for atlantica Britton. 

 canadensis Linn. 1753. Sp. Plant., pi. 936. [111. Flor., 2.505.] 



(C. W.) Canada. 

 canina. 



(C.B.) A European species credited to Xorth America. 

 car dmine folia Greene, 1901. Pittonia, IV, p. 289. 



(C.B.) Allied to muhlenhergii. Ajdmer, Quebec. 

 Carolina Greene. 1898. Pittonia, III, p. 259. 



(A.B.) Allied to fimbriatida. Wilmington, X'orth Carolina. 

 ciliata Muhlenberg. 1813. Cat., 26. 



(A.B.) X'ot recognizable [his specimens == rz7Zosa]. 

 clarulestina Pursh. 1814. Flor. Amer. Sept., I, p. 173. 



(A.Y.) Apparently = rotundifolia. 

 communis Pollard. 1898. Bot. Gazette, XXVI, p. 336. 



(A.B.) Xew name for "ohliqua" and " cucuUata" of many recent 



authors, which are not this form, but not communis Wittrock; 



' i cf. Greene, Pittonia, IV, p. 140. Apparently = papilionacea 



Ptu-sh. 

 congener Le Conte. 1828. Ann. Lye. X. Y., II. p. 140. 



(A.B.) =Form of palmata (cf. Greene, Pittonia. III. p. 142). 

 conjugens Greene, 1899. Pittonia, 1\. p. 3. [Britton's Manual, 

 Xo. 21.] 

 (A.B.) Allied to emarginata and cucidlata. Anne Arundel 

 county, Maryland. 

 consors Greene. 1902. Pittonia. ^^ p. 100. 



(A.B.) Close to cucuUata. Prince Edward's Island. 

 cordata Walter. 1788. Flor. Carol., p. 219. 



(A.B.) X^ot recognizable. 

 cordata-D.C. 1824. Prodr., I. p. 293. 

 (A.W.) As a race of primidcc folia, 

 cordifolia Xuttall. 1818. Gen., I, p. 148. [anteo. p. 674.] 

 (A.B.) = Race of r/ZZosa Walter. Philadelphia. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 693 



corcUformis D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 292. 



(A.B.) As a race of cucullata. Not distinguishable. 

 crassida Greene. 1902. Pittonia, V, p. 96. 



(A.B.) Allied to crenulata. Jackson, Michigan. 

 cremdata Greene. 1901. Pittonia, I^', p. 295. [antea. p. 674.] 



(A.B.) Syracvise, Xew York. 

 cucullata Alton. 1789. Hort. Kcw., Ill, p. 288. [111. Flor., 2,4876.] 



(A.B.) N. A. (from Dr. Samuel Martin). 

 cuspidata Greene, 1898. Pittonia, III, p. 314. [Britt. Manual, No. 8.] 



(A.B.) Allied to papilionacea. Wisconsin. 

 dehUis Michaux. 1803. Flor. Bor. Amer., II, p. 150. 



(C.B.) Probably = s;?-iato. " In mont. Alleghanis." 

 dentata Pursh. 1814. Fl. Am. Sept., I, p. 172. 



(A.B.) sagiftata group, identity doubtful. Pennsylvania. 

 dcnticulosa Pollard. 1901. Bull, forrey Bot. Club, XXVIII. p. 475. 



(A.W.) Allied to lanccolata. Douglas, Coffee county, Georgia. 

 dicksonii Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV, p. 65. 



(A.B.) Allied to cuspidata. Canadian woods. 

 digitata Pursh. 1814. Fl. Amer. Sept., I, p. 171. 



(A.B.) palmata group, identity doubtful. "S'irginia. 

 digitata Darlington. 1826. Florula Cestrica, p. 29. 



(A.B.) Apparentl}'' intended for digitata Pursh. West Chester, 

 Pennsylvania. 

 dilatata ElHott. 1817. Bot. S. C. and Ga., I. p. 300. [Britt. Manual, 

 la.] 



(A.B.) As a race of pcdmata. Upper districts Georgia and Caro- 

 lina. 

 domestica Bicknell. 1898. In Britt. and Brown, 111. Flora, III, p. 519. 



(A.B.) Rich ground form of papilionacea. South Pennsylvania 

 and New Jerse^^ 

 elegantula Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV, p. 66. 



(A.B.) " Foliage of hlanda, flowers of cucidlata." Ottawa, Canada. 

 emarginata Nuttall. 1818. Gen., I, p. 147. [111. Flor., app. 2.490a.] 



(A.B.) Philadelphia and adjacent New Jersey. 

 eriocarpon Nuttall. 1818. Gen., I, p. 150. 



(C.Y.) As a race of pubescens, from which it cannot be separated. 

 Philadelphia. 

 esctdenta Elliot. 1817. Bot. S. C. and Ga., I, p. .300. 



(A.B.) Given as a synonym under ''hcferophylla Muhl.," which 

 is fully described. Ogeechee river. 

 eunjbicefolia Greene. 1902. Pittonia, V, p. 25. 



(C.W.) "Provisional" name for southern race of V. canadensis 

 L., on the assumption that Limiseus had the northern form. 

 Sullivan county. New York. 

 falcata Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV, p. 3. [Britt. Manual, No. 6.] 



(A.B.) pcdmata group. Cobden, Illinois. 

 fimhriatula Smith. 1817. Rees' Cyclop., XXXVIII. [ = 111. Flor., 

 2.491.] 



CA.B.) A new name for primidcefolia Pui-sh (nee Linn.). 




694 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [UCt.. 



flabellifolia Locldiger. Botan. Cab.. 777. 



(A.B.) Quoted by Don, 1831. Apparently another name for V. 

 pedata hicolor Pursh, though I have been unable to refer to it. 

 fletcheri Greene. 1901. Pittonia, TV, p. 296. 



(A.B.) Allied to papilionacea. Ottawa, Ontario. 

 fragrans Elliot. 1817. Bot. of S. C. and Ga. 



(A.B.) As a variety of palmata. Near Savannah, Georgia. 

 gibbosa "Raf." D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 305. 



(C.Y.) Possibly identical with scabriuscula. Alleghany Moun- 

 tains. 

 glaberrima D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 292. 



(A.B.) Proposed as a variety of cucullata Ell., and intended as a 

 new name for cucullata Ait., which is considered subspecifically 

 different. 

 glaberrima Don. 1831. Gen. Synop., I, p. 329. 



(C.Y.) As a variety of hastata. antedated by preceding. 

 hastata MichaiLx. 1803" Flor. Bor. Amer., II, p. 149. [111. Flor., 

 2.502.] 

 (C.Y.) High mountains of Carolina. 

 heterophylla Muhlenberg. 1813. Cat., p. 25. 



(A.B.) Antedated bv heterophylla Poiret and heterophylla Bcrtol. 

 hicksii Pollard. 1895. Botan. Gazette, XX, p. 326. 



(A.B.) As a race of sagittata, and afterward referred to ovata as a 

 subspecies. Rock Creek Park, District of Columbia. 

 hispidula D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 292. 



(A.B.) Proposed as a race of cucidlata, not recognizable. 

 illinoiensis Greene. 1901. Pittonia. I^', p. 293. 



(A.B.) Somewhat allied to affinis. Monticello, Illinois. 

 inornata Greene. 1896. Pittonia, III, p. 35. 



(A,B.) Xew name for " F. pedata Curtis, Bot. Mag., t. 89," nee 

 pedata Linn., which is the bicolored form. See lineariloba. 

 insignis Pollard. 1898. Bot. Gazette, XXVI, p. 334. 



(A.B.) Jacksonville, Florida. Name antedated by insignis 

 Richter, 1888. 

 labradorica Schrank. 1818. Denksch. bot. Gesell. Regensb., II, p. 12. 

 (C.B.) I have not been able to consult this reference. The plant 

 is probably distinct from muhlenbergii. 

 Iceteccerulea Greene. 1901. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., p. 70. 



(A.B.) Allied to papilionacea. Potomac Flats, District of Co- 

 lumbia. 

 lanceolata Linn. 1753. Sp. Plant., pi. 953. [111. Flor.. 2.500.] 



(A.W.) "Canada." 

 latiuscula Greene. 1902. Pittonia, V, p. 93. 



(A.B.) Allied to afflnis. Twin ^Mountain, "West Rutland, Ver- 

 mont. 

 leconteana Don. 1831. Gen. Syst., I, p. 324. [ = 111. Flor.. var. amcewa, 

 under 2,497.] 

 (A.W.) Xew name for ama;na Le Conte. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 695 



leptosepala Greene. 1902. Pittonia, V, p. 9S. [antea. p. 674.] 



(A.B.) A race of cucullata. Oakland, Maryland. 

 lewisiana "Gingins" Don. 1824. Prcdr., I, p. 298. 



(C.W.) New name for repens Schw. 

 lineariloha D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 291. [antea, p. 681.] 



(A.B.) Proposed as a varietj^ of pedata, and based on PL 89 of 

 Curtis Bot. Mag. 

 macounii Greene. 1898. Pittonia, III, p. 335. 



(A.B.) "Very different from all other N. A. species." Ottawa 

 and Quebec. 

 macrotis Greene. 1902. Pittonia, V, p. 97. [antea, p. 673.] 



(A.B.) A race of cucullata. Surrallsville, Maryland, and Berlin, 

 New Jersey. 

 melisscefolia Greene. 1903. Pittonia. V, p. 103. 



(A.B.) "Allied to nesiotica." Prince Edward's Island. 

 misiassinica Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV, p. 5. 



(A.W.) One of hlancla group. Labrador. 

 muhlenbergii Torrey. 1824. '' Flor. U. S., I, p. 256. [111. Flor., 2,507.] 



(C.B.) New name for uliginosa Muhl. {nee Schrader) and rlebilis 

 Schw. (nee Michx.). Cedar swamp. New Durham. New Jersey. 

 muhleiibergiana "Gingins" B.C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 297. 



(C.B.) New name for uliginosa Muhl. {nee Schrader). Penn- 

 sylvania. Possibly antedates the preceding. 

 mulforclce Pollard. 1902. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., p. 203. 



(A.B.) Allied to hrittoniana. Hempstead Plains, Long Island. 

 multicaulis Torrey and Gray. 1838. Flora. I, p. 140. [111. Flor., 

 2,509.] 



(C.B.) Allied to muhlenbergii. 

 multificla Mill. 1768. Diet., 8 ed. 



(A.B.) =peclata Linn., rid Greene. Pittonia, III, p. 35. 

 nepetcefolia Greene. 1902. Pittonia, V, p. 93. 



(A.B.) Allied to afjinis. Some of No. 20 Dist. of N. A. violets 

 are this. Washington, District of Columbia. 

 nesiotica Greene, 1902. Pittonia, V, p. 102. 



(A.B.) " Closely allied to subviscosa." Prince Edward's Island. 

 nodosa Greene. 1901. Pittonia, IV, p. 296. 



(A.B.) Related to cuspidata. Svracuse. New York. 

 nuttallii Pursh. 1814. Flor. Amer. Sept., I, p. 174. [111. Flor., 2,501.] 



(C.Y.) Missouri river. 

 nuttallii Don. 1831. Gen. Syst., I, p. 324. 



(A.B.) Proposed as a variety of sororia, and intended as a new 

 name for V. villosa cordijolia Nutt., antedated by nuttallii 

 Pursh, 1814. 

 obliqua Hill. 1769. Hort. Kew., p. 316, t. 12. 



(A.B.) Not identifiable. 

 ochroleuca Schweinitz. 1822. Amer. Jour. Sci., V, p. 69. 



(C.W.) = striata Alton. Dan river toward Saura Mountains. 

 odorata Linnaus. 1753. Sp. Plan., pi. 934. [111. Flor., 2,493.] 



(A.B.) A European species introduced into North America. 




696 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



ovata Nuttall. 1818. Gen., I, p. 148. 



(A.B.) A new name for primulcefolia Pursh {nee lann.). Phila- 

 delphia. 

 ovata "Ra,i."D.C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 29.3. 



(A.W.) Proposed as a race of pnwwZcB/o/ia. Pennsylvania. 

 pallens D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 295. 



(A.Y.?) Proposed as a race of rotundifolia, imrecognizable. 

 Labrador. 

 j)almata Linnfeus. 1753. Sp. Plant., pi. 933. [111. Flor., 2,484.] 



(A.B.) Virginia. 

 palustrifor7nis Gray. 1886. Botan. Gazette, XI, p. 255. 



(A.W.) Allied to hlancla. 

 palustris Linngeus. 1753. Sp. Plant., pi. 934. [111. Flor., 2,495.] 



(A.B.) A European species attributed to America. 

 papilionacea Pm-sh. 1814. Flor. Am. Sept., I, p. 173. [111. Flor., 

 2,487.] 



(A.B.) Philadelphia. 

 pedata Linnseus. 1753. Sp. Plant., p. 933. [111. Flor., 2,492.] 



(A.B.) Virginia. 

 pedatifida Don. 1831. Gen. Sy.st.. I, p. 320. [111. Flor., 2,486.] 



(A.B.) North America. 

 pensylvanica Michaux. 1803. Flor. Bor. Amer., II, p. 149. 



(C.Y.) =pubescens Ait. Schuylkill river, Pennsylvania. 

 pensylvanica D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 294. 



(A.B.) As a race of palustris, unrecognizable. 

 populifolia Greene. 1898. Pittonia, III, p. 337. 



(A.B.) Allied to cuspidata. Pt. Flamboro, Ontario. 

 porteriana Pollard. 1897. Bull. Torrey Bot. Club, XXIV, p. 404. 

 [ = Britt. Manual, No. 19.] 



(A.B.) A member of the sagittata group. Bushkill Falls, Penn- 

 sylvania. 

 praiincola Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV, p. 65. [Britt. Manual, No. 11.] 



(A.B.) Allied to papilionacea. Windom, Minnesota. 

 primulcefolia Linn. 1753. Sp. Plant., pi. 934. [111. Flor., 2,499.] 



(A.W.) Siberia and Virginia. 

 primidcefolia Pm-sh. 1814. Flor. Am. Sept., I, p. 173. 



(A.B.) = fimhriatida Smith. 

 priosepala Greene. 1902. Pittonia, V, p. 99. 



(A.B.) A race of cucidlata. Vermont and Quebec. 

 pit6ent/a S. Watson. 1890. Gray's Manual (ed. VI), p. 81. 



(C.B.) As a race of muhlenbergii. Lakes Huron and Superior. 

 pubescens Alton. 1789. Hort. Kew., Ill, p. 290. [111. Flor., 2,503.] 



(C.Y.) N. A. (from William Yovmg). 

 punctata Schw. 1822. Am. Jour. Sci., V, p. 67. 



(C.B.) Probably = lahradorica Schrank. Labrador. 

 p?/^m(Ea "Donn" Muiilenberg. 1813. Cat., p. 26. 



(A.W.?) Unrecognizable. 

 radicans D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 297. 



(C.W.) Voii^WAj = miMenhergii or striata. South Carolina. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 697 



rafinesquii Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV, p. 9. [111. Flor., 2,512.] 

 (C.W. and B.) New name for V. tenella Muhl., which is a nomen 

 nudum, and is antedated by V. tenella Poiret, 1810. 

 ranunculifolia "Gingins" D. C. 1824. Prodr., I, p. 291. 



(A.B.) Proposed as a variet}'" of pedata, but unrecognizable; 

 reference is also made: ^'ranunculifolia Poir. ! diet. 8, p. 626?" 

 renijolia Gray. 1870. Proc. Amer. Acad., YIII, p. 288. [111. Flor., 

 2,498.] 

 (A.W.) East Elba, New York. 

 repens Schweinitz. 1822. Amer. Jour. Sci., V, p. 70. 



(C.W.) Allied to striata. Rocks of Saura Mountains. 

 rostrata Muhlenberg. 1813. Cat., p. 26. [111. Flor., 2,510.] 



(C.B.) Unrecognizable, until described by Pursh, 1814, Flor. 

 Am. Sept., I, p. 174. Easttown [ = Easton], Pennsylvania. 

 rotundifolia Michaux. 1803. Flor. Bor. Amer., II, p. 150. [111. Flor., 

 2,494.] 

 (A.Y.) High Mountains, Carolina. 

 sagittata Alton. 1789. Hort. Kew., Ill, p. 287. [111. Flor., 2,490.] 



(A.B.) Pennsylvania (from Dr. John Fothergill). 

 sagittata Pursh. 1814. Flor. Am. Sept., I, p. 172. 



(A.B.) Antedated by the above and probably = fimhriatula. 

 scabriuscida Schweinitz. 1822. Amer. Jour. Sci., V. p. 75. [111. 

 Flor., 2,504.] 

 (C.Y^.) Salem, North Carolina. 

 selkirkii "Pursh," Goldie. 1822. Edinb. Phil. Mag., VI. p. 324. [111. 

 Flor., 2,496.] 

 (A.B.) ]\lountains about Montreal. 

 septemloba LeConte. 1828. Ann. Lye. N. Y., II, p. 141. [antea, 

 p. 678.] 

 (A.B.) Pine woods, Carolina and Georgia. 

 septentrionalis Greene. 1898. Pittonia, III, p. 334. [Britt. Manual, 

 14.] 

 (A.B.) Allied to cuspidata. Ottawa. 

 sororia Willdenow. 1806. Hort. Berol., PI. LXXII. 



(A.B.) Application somewhat doubtful, probably = f/i7a^a<f/. 

 North America. 

 striata Alton. 1789. Hort. Kew., Ill, p. 290. [111. Flor., 2,506.] 



(C.W.) N. A. (from William Young). 

 striata Schweinitz. 1822. Am. Jour. Sci., V, p. 76. 



(C.Y'.) Allied to hastata, but name antedated by the last. 

 striata Willis. 1874. Catalogue Plants of N. J. 



(A.B.) As a race of cucidlata, from which it does not seem 

 separable. 

 subsagittata Greene. 1898. Pittonia, III, p. 315. 



(A.B.) Allied to sagittata. West of Lake Michigan. 

 suhsinuata Greene. 1898. Pittonia, III, p. 313. 



(A.B.) As a race of emarginata. Mountains, East Tennessee. 

 subvestita Greene. 1897. Erythrea, VI, p. 39. 




698 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



subviscosa Greene. 1901. Pittonia, IV, p. 293. 



(A.B.) Allied to septentrionalis. Prince Edward's Island. 

 tenella Muhlenberg. 1813. Cat., p. 26. 



(C.B. and W.) Nomen nudum and antedated by tenella Poiret, 

 1810, in Lam. diet., n. 5S = rafi}iesquii. 

 tenuipes Pollard. 1902. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., p. 201. 



(C.Y.) Allied to hastata. Chattahoochee, Florida. 

 thompsorue Chapman. 1897. Flor. So. States (Ed. III). 



(A.B.) =odoratahinn. 

 tricolor Linnaus. 1753. Sp. Plant., pi. 935. [111. Flor., 2,511.] 



(C.B.) A European species, introduced. 

 triloba Schweinitz. 1822. Am. Jour. Sci., V, p. 57. 



(A.B.) Frohahly = dilatata. 

 tripartita ElHot. 1817. Bot. S. Car. and Ga., I, p. 302. 



(C.Y.) A race of hastata. Athens. Georgia. 

 uliginosa Muhlenberg. 1813. Cat., p. 26. 



(C.B.) As synon^'m mider asarifolia, antedated by idiginosa 

 Schrad. 

 vagula Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV. p. 67. [Britt. Manual, Xo. 16.] 



(A.B.) AlUed to venustula and cucullata. Ottawa. 

 variabilis Greene. 1902. Pittonia. V, p. 91. 



(A.B.) Harper's Ferry, Virginia. 

 variegata "Donn" Muhlenberg. 1813. Cat., p. 26. 



(A.B.?) Unrecognizable. 

 velutina Schweinitz. 1822. Amer. Jour. Sci., V, p. 



So quoted b}^ some authors, but not to be found in Schweinitz's 

 paper. 

 venustula Greene. 1898. Pittonia, III, p. 335. [Britt. Manual, 15.] 



(A.B.) Allied to cucullata. Ottawa. 

 vicinalis Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV, p. 9. 



(A.B.) New name for insignis Pollard (??ec Richter, 1888). 

 viarum PoUard. 1901. Britton's Manual, p. 635, No. 5. 



(A.B.) Allied to bernardi. YaWex Park, i\Iissouri. 

 villosa Walter. 1788. Flor. Carol., p.^219. [111. Flor.. 2,488.] 



(A.B.) More fully described by Elliot, 1817. South Carolina. 

 vittata Greene. 1898. Pittonia, Il'l, p. 258. 



(A.W.) A southern ally of lanceolata. Florida. 

 vulgaris Elliot. 1817. Bot. S. Car. and Ga., I, p. 300. 



(A.B.) As a variety of palmata. 

 watsoni Greene. 1899. Pittonia, IV. p. 5. 



(A.W.) One of the blanda group. Prince Edward's Island. 




1903.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 699 



Explanation of Plates XXXI-XXXIX.^ 



Plate XXXI, Fig. i. — Viola villosa cordifolia. — a. Three leaves from early 

 flowering plants, b. Leaf from older plant, c. Two leaves from fruit- 

 ing plants. 

 Fig. ii. — Viola affinis. — a. Three leaves from early flowering plants, b. Two 

 older leaves, c. Two leaves from fruiting plants. 



Plate XXXII, Fig. i. — Viola papilionacea. — a. Two early leaves, b. Two later 



leaves, c. Two leaves from fruiting plant. 

 Fig. ii. — Viola cucullata. — a. Two early leaves, b. Later leaf. c. Leaf 



from plant in fruit. 

 Fig. iii. — Viola crenulata. — a. Three leaves from flowering plant, b. Leaf 



from fruiting plant. 



Pl.\te XXXIII. — Viola palmata dilatata. — 1-2. Early leaves. 3-7. Older 

 leaves from flowering plants. 8-13. From fruiting plants. 



Plate XXXIV, Fig. i. — Viola palmata. — a. Early leaf . b. Later leaf. c. From 

 fruiting plant, d. Late sununer leaf. 

 Fig. ii. — Viola palmata angelhe. — a. Early leaf. b. Three leaves from fruit- 

 ing plant. 



Plate XXXV, Fig. i. — }'iola brittcniana. — a. Three early leaves, b. Two older 

 leaves, c. Two leaves from fruiting plant. 

 Fig. ii. — Viola septemloba. — a. Three early leaves, b. Older leaf. c. Two 

 leaves from plant in fruit. 



Plate XXXVI, Fig. i. — Viola sagiitata, Tinicum. Delaware county, Pennsyl- 

 vania. — a. Three early leaves, b. Two later leaves, c. Three leaves 

 from plants in fruit. 



Fig. ii. — Viola sagiitata, broader-leaved plant, Tinicum, Delaware county, 

 Pennsylvania. — a. Early leaf. b. From fruiting plant. 



Fig. iii. — Viola sagiitata (approaching emarginaial) , Haddonfield, Xew Jer- 

 sey. — a. Early leaf. b. From fruiting plant. 



Fig. iv. — Viola emarginaia. — a. Three early leaves, b. Two leaves from 

 fruiting plants. 



Fig. V. — T'io/a emarginaia. — Four leaves from late summer plants. 



Plate XXXVII, Fig. i. — Viola fimbriatula. — a. Two early leaves. 6. Three 

 older leaves, c. Leaf from fruiting plant. 

 Fig. ii. — Viola fimbriatula. — From fruiting plant. 



Fig. iii. — Viola fimbriatula. — Exceptionally long petioled slender leaf. 

 Fig. iv. — Viola fimbriatula anneciens. — a. Early leaf b. Fruiting leaf. 

 Fig. V. — Viola fimbriatula anneciens. — From fruiting plant. 

 Fig. vi. — Viola fimbriatula anneciens?. — Early leaf. 



Plate XXXVIII, Fig. i.— Viola sagiitata. 

 Fig. ii. — Viola emarginaia. 

 Fig. iii. — Viola papilionacea. 

 Fig. iv. — Viola cucullata. 

 Fig. V. — Viola fimbriatula. 



Pl.\te XXXIX, Fig. i. — Viola palmata. 

 Fig. ii. — Viola britioniana. 

 Fig. iii. — Viola septemloba. 

 Figs, iv and v. — Viola palmata dilatata. 



^ The drawings represent leaves that have been pressed flat, and no attempt 

 has been made to denote cucullation. 




700 proceedings of the academy of [oct.. 



October 20. 

 The President; Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Twentj'-three persons present. 



Inclusions in Quartz. — Mr. Hugo Bilgraim remarked that on ex- 

 amining a section of the " Bkie Quartz " of Bucks county, Pennsylvania, 

 he had observed some very interesting inchisions. This quartz con- 

 tains small crystals of a bluish tint, exceedingly small needle-shaped 

 crystals, some apparently opaque, and larger and smaller amorphous 

 black masses distributed in irregular groups, mostly in sheets through- 

 out the rock, probably consisting of graphite. There are also 

 numerous small cavities filled with liquid, probably water, containing 

 small bubbles. A few of these latter cavities were found to contain 

 small, loose particles which, in connection with the enclosed bubbles, 

 exhibit the phenomenon known as the Brownian movements. Some 

 are prismatic crystals or fragments, others opaque particles of irregular 

 shape. These inclusions clearly demonstrate that the Brownian move- 

 ments continue indefinitely, the gneiss beds from which the blue quartz 

 originates belonging to the oldest geologic formations. 



Some of the cavities contain a number of such crystals. Owing to 

 the constant movement it was difficult to count them with certainty, 

 but he had counted no less than five or six particles in several cavities. 



These inclusions of suspended particles seem to be very rare, as he 

 had examined hundreds of splinters and had succeeded in finding only 

 a few exhibiting these phenomena. They seemed to be grouped. If 

 one cavity containing a loose crystal is found in a section, it is likely 

 that more can be discoverd by a close examination. The first section 

 in which he discovered them contains at least twenty such cavities. 

 The dimensions of the particles are exceedingly small. One of the 

 largest prismatic crystals found is about 6 micro-millimeters long and 

 about -g- micro-millimeter thick. Others are too small for even approxi- 

 mate measurement. 



Mr. Frank J. Keeley stated that he had succeeded in showing that 

 these crystals have double-refractive qualities. By placing the section 

 between two Nichol's prisms, so as to obtain a dark field, a careful 

 observation will reveal that these crystals occasionally light up as their 

 optic axis happens to become practically paralleled with the line of 

 sight. They look very much like fireflies. 



Messrs. Theodore Brooks, Allen J. Smith, Frederick L. Lewton, 

 Thomas Barbour and Edward G. Vanatta were elected members. 



The following were accepted for publication : 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 701 



STUDIES IN OLD WORLD MANTID^ (ORTHOPTERA). 



BY JAMES A. G. REHX. 



The material forming the base of the present paper is ahnost entirely- 

 contained in the collections of the Academy of Natm'al Sciences of 

 Philadelphia and the United States National Museum. The author 

 is indebted to Dr. W. H. Ashmead of the latter institution, for the 

 privilege of examining the material under his charge. 



Subfamily Orthoderinse. 

 Genus EREMIAPHILA Lefebvre. 

 1835. Eremiaphila Lefebvre, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, IV, p. 468. 

 Tj^pe. — By selection E. luxor Lefebvre.^ 



Eremiaphila bove Lefebvre. 



1835. Eremiaphila bore Lefebvre, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, IV, p. 492. [Des- 

 ert of Suez.] 



Two immature specimens; Egypt.^ (Dr. H. C. Wood.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila.] 



These appear to be the only specimens in existence except the types. 



Eremiaphila sabulosa Saussure. 



1871. E[reiniaphila] sabulosa Saussure, Melanges Orthopterologiques, Suppl., 

 Ill fasc, p. 387. [Isthmus of Suez.] 



One immature specimen; Egypt. (Dr. H. C. Wood.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila.] 



This species has apparently not been recorded since the original 

 description. 



Genus THEOPOMPA St&l. 



1877. Theopompa Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handlingar, 

 Band 4, No. 10, pp. 22, 47. 



Included ophthalmica (Olivier) and servillei (Haan), of which the 

 latter can be considered the type. 



' Of the originally included species {audouin, cerisy, gene, zetterstedt, luxor, bove, 

 savigny, khamsin, kralil, kheych, typhon, petit, hebraica and anubis), ittxor possesses 

 the best figure, and for that reason I have selected it as the type. 



-' Dr. Wood has very kindly given me the following information regarding the 

 specimens in the Academy's collection presented by him, and simply labelled 

 "Egypt": My Egyptian collections were made in three places — at Helowan and 

 at the Menai House in the desert, seven or eight miles from Cairo; at Assouan 

 (at the First Cataract on the Nile) ; and probably some at Luxor on the Nile. 




702 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Theopompa servillei (Haan). 



181:2. Ma7itis servillei Haan, Verhand. Xatuurl. Gesch. Xeder. overz. bezitt., 

 p. 81, tab. 16, figs. 5-6. [Lewibonger, Java, 300 feet elevation.] 



One female; Trong. Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. 

 N. M.] 



Genus CHIROPUS Saussure. 

 1869. Chiropus Saussure, Bull. Soc. Entom. Suisse, III, pp. 54, 61. 

 Type. — Chiropus dives Saussure. 



Chiropus insidiator (Wood-Mason). 



1882. Tarachodes insidiator Wood-Mason, Journ. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, LI, Pt. 

 2, p. 22. [Xyassa, East .\frica.] 



Two somewhat immature females; Zulu Mission, South Africa. 

 [A. X. S. Phila.] 



This species has been recorded from Barberton in the Transvaal, 

 Nyassaland, Voi in British East Africa and Somaliland. 



Genus PYRGOMANTIS Gerstaecker. 



1869. Pyrgomantis Gerstaecker. Arcliiv ftir Xaturgeschichte, XXXV, Band 

 I, p. 210. 



Type. — P. singularis Gerstaecker. 



P3n'gomantis singularis Gerstaecker. 



1869. Pyrgomantis singularis Gerstaecker, Archiv fiir X'aturgeschichte, 

 XXXV, Band I, p. 211. [Between Mombasa and Wanga, East Africa.] 



Three immature males; Zulu Mission, South Africa. [A. N, S. 

 Phila.] 



This species has been recorded from Pretoria, Transvaal. Xatal and 

 Zululand. 



Subfamily Mantinse. 



Genus IRIDOPTERYX Saussure. 

 1869. Iridopteryx Saussure, Bull. Soc. Ent. Suisse, III, pp. 55, 63. 

 Included species, I. iridipennis and glauca, the former being the type, 

 as the latter was later removed to Micronumtis by Saussm'e. 



Iridopteryx infumata Saussure. 



1872. G{onypeta] (Iridopteryx) infumata Saussure, Melanges Orthopterolo- 

 giques, IV, p. 30. ["L'Egypte (suivant I'etiquette; mais pourrait etre 

 des Indes?)"] 



Two specimens, male and female; Trong, Lower Siam; January- 

 February, 1899. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. X. :\I.] 



Genus AMELES Burmeister. 



1838. Ameles Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., II, p. 531. 

 Included nana, minima, aurantiaca and flavicinda. The first of 




1903,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 703 



these was removed to Parameles, and of the rcmainino- three minima 

 may be selected as the type. 

 Ameles malaccana n. sp. 



Type: 9; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [Cat. No. 

 6,955, U. S. N. M.] 



This species is probably related to A. abjeda Cyrillo { = spaUanzania 

 Rossi et auct.) and A. decolor Charpentier of southern Europe. While 

 quite distinct from either of these forms, no satisfactory comparison 

 can be made without good figures or accurate descriptions, and as the, 

 existing ones are based chiefly on the males, no comparative diagnostic 

 characters can be given. The central Asian A. alata Saussure is an 

 entirely different insect, the female having wings as long as the body. 



Size rather small ; form rather robust, abdomen moderately ex- 

 panded. Head very slightly broader than deep; vertex subtruncate, 

 juxta-ocular lobes rounded; eyes ovate when viewed laterally; ocelli 

 disposed in a small triangle; facial shield moderately transverse, the 

 superior margin very slightly arcuate.' Pronotum over twice as 

 long as broad; collar broad and gradually expanding into the 

 rather well-marked, but evenly curved, supra-coxal expansion; 

 shaft contracting posteriorly; surface with sparse tubercles, median 

 carina slightly marked on the shaft, at the posterior margin flanked 

 by a pair of moderate-sized blunt tubercles ; margins, except 

 the anterior and posterior, with rather even, short dentiform spines. 

 Tegmina very short, not equal to the pronotum in length ; apex obtuse, 

 narrowly rounded. Wings ver}^ slightly exceeding the tegmina in 

 length. Abdomen sub-fusiform, the apex rather strongly constricted, 

 the whole bearing a distinct dorsal median carina. Supra-anal plate 

 transverse, the apical margin subrotundate. Cerci not exceeding the 

 subgenital plate in length, depressed. Subgenital plate large, apex 

 •rostrate, compressed. Anterior coxae very slightly longer than the 

 pronotum, the lower margin finely denticulate ; femora slightly longer 

 than the pronotum, very heavily built, external margin bearing five 

 large spines, one of which is blunt and apical, internal margin bearing 

 thirteen unequal spines, discoidal spines three in number; tibia) very 

 slightly more than half the length of the femora, the external margin 

 bearing nine spines, the basal ones much smaller than the apical, the 

 internal margin bearing eight spines, the basal ones smaller than the 

 apical; metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in 

 length. Median limbs slender, tibiae shorter than the femora, the 

 metatarsi not equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length. 



General color dull umber, oljscm-ely and irregularly spotted and 




704 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



blotched with dull ochraceous. Anterior femora with the internal 

 face shining black. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 20.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 6 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 3.1 " 



Length of tegmina, 4.5 " 



Length of anterior femora, 7 " 



Genus STATILIA sai. 



1877. Statilia Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handlingar, Band 4, 

 No. 10, pp. 36, 55. 



Included Pseudomantis nemoralis and Mantis apicalis Saussure,_of 

 which the former may be selected as the type.' 



statilia macalata (Thuaberg and Lundahl). 



1784. M[antis] maculata Thunherg and Lundahl, Dissert. Entomolog., Pt. 

 Ill, p."61. [Japan.] 



Thirty-eight specimens; fourteen males, twenty-four females: 

 Yokohama, Japan. (Loomis.) [A. N. Caudell.] 

 Kioto, Japan. (Y. Hirase, No. 29.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 

 Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 

 Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra. October-November, 190L 

 (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. :\L Hiller.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



After a critical examination of the above rather extensive series, I 

 agree with Bolivar^ that maculata and haani are inseparable. The 

 difference in size in the series examined is, I admit, rather startling, the 

 extremes in total length being 39. 5-^ and 61.5 mm., but intermediates 

 between these form a completely connected series. The Kioto series 

 alone contains the two extremes and a great number of intermediates. 

 The coloration of the whole series is rather uniform, but several are 

 dull blackish-brown instead of the usual grayish-brown. 



Genus TENODERA Burmeister. 

 1838. Tenodera Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, p. 534. 



Included fasciata Olivier (=siiperstitiosa Fabricius), chloreudeta 

 {=aridifolia Stoll), and tessellata {=australasi(c Leach). Of these the 

 first may be selected as the type. 



^ The genus Pseudomantis Saussure (Bull. Soc. Ent. Suisse, III, pp. 56, 228) 

 contained two species, albofimbriata Stal and nemoralis Saussure. As Stal 

 removed nemoralis to Statilia and left albofimbriata in Pseudomantis, the latter 

 can be regarded as the type of Saussure' s genus. 



* Ann. Soc. Ent. France, LXVI, pp. 309-310. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 705 



Tenodera superstitiosa (Fabricius). 



1781. [Mantis] superstitiosa Fabricius, Species Insect., I, p. 348. [/Equinoc- 

 tial Africa.] 



One female; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. 

 N. M.] 



Genus PARATENODERA n. gen. 



Type. — Tenodera sinensis (Saussure). 



This genus can readily be separated from Tenodera s. s. by the stouter 

 and heavier form, much less elongate pronotum, the broader head, 

 the higher facial shield and the heavier anterior limbs. The principal 

 differential characters would be as follows : 



A. — -Head with the facial shield about three times as broad as high; 

 pronotum with the collar about one-fifth of the total length of 

 the pronotum; anterior coxae with the lower margin wdth very 

 obsolete denticles, Tenodera Burm. 



AA. — Head with the facial shield about twice as broad as high; pro- 

 notum with the collar not less than one-fourth of the total length 

 of the pronotum; anterior coxse with the lower margin strongly 

 denticulate, Paratenodera Rehn. 



Paratenodera aridifolia (StoU). 



1787. [Mantig] Aridifolia Stoll, Natuurlijke Afbeeldinscen en Beschrijvingen, 

 Spooken, pp. 65, 78, PI. XXII, fig. 82. [East Indies.] 



Ten specimens; one male, nine females: 



Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra. October-November, 1901. 

 (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



These specimens are quite constant in size, and in the series exam- 

 ined both the brown and green phase of coloration are present, and in 

 about equal proportion. 



Paratenodera sinensis (Saussure). 



1871. T[enodera] aridifolia var. sinensis Saussure, Melanges Orthopterolo- 

 giques. III, Suppl., p. 419. [Ningpo, China.] 



Thirty-two specimens; twelve males, twenty females;: 



Kioto, Japan. (Y. Hirase, Nos. 32 and 33.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Yokohama, Japan. (Loomis.) [A. N. Caudell.] 



The above excellent series shows that the full brown phase of color- 

 ation is apparently rather scarce in sinensis, as it is present in but two 

 out of thirty-two specimens. In a series of eighteen specimens of this 

 species, taken from the introduced colony at Mt, Airy, Philadelphia, 

 the proportion is two in eighteen. The variation in size is rather great, 

 45 




706 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the females in the series ranging from 25 to 30.5 mm. in the length of 

 the pronotum.^ 



After a comparison of sinensis with aridijolia there can be no doubt 

 but that they represent very distinct species. 



Genus POLYSPILOTA Burmeister. 

 1838. Polyspilota Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, p. 534. 



Included conspersa, alhimacula { = Mantis domingensis Palisot), 

 varia { = pustulata StoU), variegata ( = striata Stoll), and catenata 

 { = pustulata Stoll). As only one, alhimacula, has been removed from 

 the genus, the type must be selected from the remaining four species. 

 As probably the best knowTi and most representative form of the genus 

 is striata Stoll, variegata, which equals striata, may be selected as the 

 type. 



Polyspilota striata (Stoll). 



1787. \Mantis\ Striata Stoll, Natuurlijke Afbeeldingen en Beschrijvingen, 

 Spooken, pp 34, 78, PI. XI, fig. 41. [Coast of Angola.] 



Two females; Gaboon River, West Africa. (Rev. M. Nassau.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



While these specimens have been dried from alcohol, still it is evident 

 that two color phases, a light and a dark type, are present in this 

 species. 



Genus LEOMANTIS n. gen. 



Type. — Leomantis ignota n. sp. 



Allied to Sphodropoda Stal,^ but differing in the very much stouter 

 form, the very much wider costal field of the tegmina, the strongly 

 depressed head and peculiarly developed anterior femora. 

 Leomantis ignota n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Zulu Mission, South Africa. [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Size medium; form very stout and robust. Head strongly com- 

 pressed, subocular in outline, though slightly longitudinal; ^'ertex very 

 narrowly rounded, arcuate when viewed from the front; ej'cs ovoid in 

 outline; ocelli small, disposed in a triangle; facial shield over twice 

 as wide as high, the superior margin very obtuse-angulate, the inferior 

 truncate; antennae not quite equal to the pronotum in length, filiform. 

 Pronotum very stout, the greatest width equal to half the entire length ; 

 collar short, passing \\athout any marked differentiation into the wide 



5 One female from the Ml. Airy colony exceeds any of the Japanese specimens 

 in size, measuring as follows: Total length 104; length of pronotum 31.4; length 

 of tegmina 64.5 ; length of anterior femora 24 mm. 



« Ofversigt K. Vetcn.-Akad. Forhandl., 28, No. 3, p. 399. Type, Mantis tristis 

 Saussure. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 707 



siipracoxal dilation, posterior two-thirds of'the shaft siibcqual; dorsal 

 surface finely tuberculate, a strong longitudinal sulcus present on the 

 posterior half of the collar and the anterior half of the shaft ; margins 

 strongly denticulate except on the anterior portion of the collar; 

 acetabular spine erect, robust. Tegmina short and rounded, not 

 reaching the apex of the abdomen; costal margin strongty arcuate, 

 sutural margin moderateh" so, apex obtuse-angulate ; costal field at 

 the widest point equal to one-half the width of the entire tegmina; 

 stigma corneous, slender^ subfvisiform, longitudinal. Wings about 

 equalling the tegmina in length when in repose. Abdomen strongly 

 expanded. Supra-anal plate triangularly produced, the apex obtuse- 

 angulate. Cerci attenuate, about equal to the subgenital plate in 

 length. Subgenital plate produced, apex rostrate. Anterior coxsfc 

 slightly shorter than the pronotum, superior margin serrate, lower mar- 

 gin with elongate dentiform spines; femora equal to the pronotum in 

 length, superior margin bearing a large, rounded, foliaceous expansion 

 on the apical two-thirds of the joint, lower external margin bearing four 

 large spines, two medium-sized apical spines,^and a series of small blunt 

 spinous tubercles between the largest spines, discoidal spines four in 

 number, closely placed, internal margin anterior to the discoidal spines 

 bearing a series of thirteen spines, posterior to the discoidal spines a 

 series of five blmit tubercles ; tarsi somewhat exceeding half the length 

 of the femora, the superior margin bearing an arcuate foliaceous 

 ridge, external margin bearing a series of seven spines, the basal por- 

 tion unarmed, the internal margin bearing a series of fourteen spines; 

 metatarsi stout, slightly longer than the remaining joints united. 

 Median and posterior limbs rather robust ; femora armed with genicular 

 spines, the genicular lobes rounded; posterior metatarsi not two-fifths 

 of the total tarsal length. 



As the specimens examined are all from alcohol, and consequently 

 with the natural colors destroyed, no color notes can be given. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 50.5 mm. 



]>ength of pronotum 17 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 8 " 



Tjcngth of tegmina 21 " 



Greatest width of tegmina, 13 " 



Length of anterior femora, 17 " 



Greatest width of anterior femora, 6 " 



Beside the type three inmiature specimens from the same locality 

 have been examined. 




708 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Genus SPHODROMANTIS St&l. 



1872. Sphodromanlis Stal, Ofversigt K. Veten.-Akad. Forhandlingar, 28, 

 No. 3, p. 390. 



Included bioculata Burm., lineola Burm. and gastrica Stal. of which 

 the latter may be selected as the type, Stal havmg had specimens of 

 it before him when he founded the genus. 



Sphodromantis bioculata (Burmeister). 



1838. M[antis] bioculata Burmeister, Handb. der Eutom, II, p. 537. [Egypt, 

 Nubia and Syria.] 



One male and one female : 



Egypt.^ (Dr. H. C. Wood.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Tunis, Africa. (W. P. Chandler.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



The remark made by Saussure and Zehntner^ concerning the small 



size of Barbary coast specimens holds true regarding the specimen 



from Tunis. 



Sphodromantis gastrica (Stal). 



1859. Mantis gastrica Stal, Ofversigt K. Veten.-.\kad. Forhandlingar, XV, 



(1858), p. 307. [Eikhams, South Africa.] 

 — 1901. Sphodromantis bioculata Rehn (not of Burmeister), Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 284. [Sheikh Husein, Gallaland.] 



Two females, one immature; Zulu Mission, South Africa. [A. X. S. 

 Phila.] 



A re-examination of the immature specimen recorded by the author 

 as bioculata shows that it is undoubtedly Stal's gastrica. 



Sphodromantis rudolfae (Rehn). 



1901. Sphodropoda rudolfce Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phihx., 1901, p. 282. 

 [Near southern end of Lake Rudolf, western Gallaland.] 



This species is a member of the genus Sphodromantis, and allied to 

 S. gastrica, but the two species can readily be differentiated by the 

 following key. 



A. — Greatest width of the costal field of the tegmina median; tegmina 

 surpassing the abdomen; pronotum rounded anteriorly. 



gastrica Stal. 



A A. — Greatest width of the costal field of the tegmina basal; tegmina 



not equalling the abdomen; pronotum rather attenuatca ntcriorly. 



rudolfa Rehn. 



Genus HIERODULA Burmeister. 

 1838. Hierodula Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., II, p. 536. 

 Included membranacea Burmeister {=birivia Stoll), hybrida Bur- 

 meister, and simidocrum Fabricius. Of these the first may be selected 

 as the type. 



" See p. 701, footnote. 



s Hist. Phys. Nat. et Polit. Madagasc, XXIIP Pt. I, p. 186. 




l!K)3.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 709 



Hierodula vitrea (StoU). 



1787. [Mantis] Vitrea Stoll, Natuurlijke Afbeeldingen en Besehrijvingen, 

 Spooken, pp. 15, 77, PI. V, fig. 19. ["Surinam."] 



Two females; Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, 

 Sumatra. August-September, 1901. (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. 

 H. M. Hiller.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



This species has been recorded from Siam to Celebes. 



Hierodula patellifera (Serville). 



1839. Mantis patellifera Serville, Orthopteres, p. 185. [Java.] 



Nine specimens; three males, six females; Kioto, Japan. (Y. 

 Hirase, No. 35.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



These specimens agree with Serville's original description in having 

 the two brown bars on the basal portion of the lower surface of the 

 pronotum. On account of this character and the more numerous 

 dentiform processes on the anterior coxse, I have separated this species 

 from H. bipapilla (Serville), with which it is usually synonymized. 

 The pronotum and wings in the male also appear to be somewhat 

 shorter than Saussure's measurements of bipapilla,^ though the other 

 proportions do not differ materially. 



One specimen of the above-mentioned series is in the full brown 

 phase, another partially so, and the remainder all in the green condi- 

 tion. The stigma in some specimens is surrounded by an irregular 

 cloud of umber, while in others the cream-colored spot has no sur- 

 rounding tint. 



Hierodula gracilicollis St&l. 



1877. HUerodula] gracilicollis Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. 

 Handlingar, Bd.IV, No. 10, p. 58. [Sarawak.] 



One male ; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. I\I.] 



This specimen does not entirely fit Stal's brief and vmsatisfactory 



description which is based on the female. The tegmina and wings 



are, of course, very different in proportions and shape, but the othei* 



characters agree very well. The measurements of this specimen may 



prove of interest: 



Total length (head and body), 66 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 21.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 6.2 " 



Posterior width of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of tegmina, 47.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmina, 12.2 " 



Greatest width of costal field, 3.7 " 



Length of anterior femora, 15.5 " 



"•* Melanges Orthopterologiqiies , fasc, III, p. 227. 




710 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ocl., 



Genus RHOMBODERA Burmeister. 

 1838. Rhombodera Burmeister, Handb. d. Entoni., II, p. 536. 

 Included R. valida and R. laticoUis Burmeister. 



Rhombodera scutata Karsch. 



1892. Rhombodera scutata Karsch, Entomol. Nachrichten, XVIII, p. 6. 

 [Angola and Malange, W. Africa.] 



One female; three himdred miles inland from Benguella, Angola. 

 (Misses M. and H. S. MelviUe.) [U. S. N. M.] 



The specimen agrees very well with Karsch's description of this 

 single African representative of the genus. 



Rhombodera basalis (Haan). 



1842. Mantis (Mantis) basalis Haan, in Temminck, Verhandel. Natuurlijke 

 Geschiedenis Nederlandsche overzeesche bezittingen, p. 67. [Krawang, 

 Java.] 



Three specimens ; t^^•o males, one female : 



Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. X. M.] 



Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, Sumatra. 

 August-September, 1901. (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. ]\I. Hiller.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra. October-November, 1901. 

 (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. HiUer.) [A. X. S. Phila.] 



The two male specimens have retained all of their original coloration, 

 which is quite striking. The Trong specimen bears more yellowish 

 than the Lampong male, but the amount of rose-color on the wings 

 is about the same. The bro'uii ring encircling the stigma mentioned 

 by Wood-Mason^" is not completely developed in the specimens 

 examined. 

 Rhombodera megaera n. sp. 



Type: ^ ; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [Cat. X'o. 

 6,956, U. S. X. M.] 



Belonging to the same group as flava Haan, major Saussm'e. lingulata 

 and titania Stal, taprobame Wood-Mason, and pectoralis Westwood, 

 but closest related to major Saussure. The new form differs chiefly 

 in the less expanded pronotum. and the different armature of the 

 anterior coxse. 



Size large; form robust. Head slightly broader than high ; occipital 

 margin broadly arcuate ; facial shield very slightly broader than high, 

 the superior margin obtuse-angulate, and narrower than the base; 

 ocelli rather small, the apex of the unequal triangle being inferior; eyes 

 ovoid, moderately prominent; antennae but slightly exceeding half 



'0 Jour. Asiat. Sac. Bengal, LI, p. 32. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 711 



the length of the pronotum. Pronotum rather stout, the greatest 

 width at the supra-coxal dilations, the shaft about three times the 

 length of the collar; anterior margin evenly rounded, posterior mar- 

 gin subtruncate; lateral portions very slightly expanded, and evenly 

 decreasing in width both anteriorly and posteriorly from the supra- 

 coxal portion; lateral margins feebly denticulate, more apparent 

 anteriorly; lower face of the slight lateral expansions punctate and 

 coriaceous; median carina moderately distinct on the shaft. Tegmina 

 broad, coriaceous except immediately along the sutural margin and 

 the central portion of the median half of the interspace between the 

 principal branches of the ulnar vein; costal margin evenly arcuate, 

 except the apical third, which is diagonally emarginate ; apex narrowly 

 rounded; ulnar vein with three principal rami; stigma elongate-ovate. 

 Wings of moderate length, equalling the apex of the tegmina when at 

 rest; costal margin straight, except in the apical third, where it 

 curves posteriorly to the subangulate apex; anterior ulnar vein with 

 three distinct and equally disposed rami. Abdomen moderately broad, 

 the apex of the subgenital plate visible beyond the tips of the closed 

 tegmina and wings. Supra-anal plate transverse, narrow, the apical 

 margin slightly arcuate, the apex with a very shallow and almost 

 imperceptible emargination. Cerci attenuate, moniliform, slightly 

 exceeding the subgenital plate in length. Subgenital plate very broad, 

 apex strongly compressed, rostrate. Anterior coxse not quite equal 

 to the shaft of the pronotum in length, superior margins, particularly 

 the internal, denticulate, inferior margin wdth a series of rather large 

 spines, which decrease in size distally and also take on an alternating- 

 large and small character; femora about equal to the shaft of the pro- 

 notum in length, apical genicular lobes considerably developed and 

 armed apically with a slight, blunt, dentiform process, external in- 

 ferior margin with four strong dentiform spines, discoidal spines four 

 in number, internal inferior margin with a series of fifteen alternating 

 large and small spines, the margin with a vacant distal diastema; 

 tibiae (without apical claw) about half the length of the femora, external 

 margin bearing eleven or twelve spines, internal margin armed with 

 fourteen spines ; metatarsi considerably exceeding the remaining tarsal 

 joints in length and almost equal to the tibiae without apical claw. 

 Genicular spine of median and posterior femora rather small; meta- 

 tarsi of the median limbs very considerably less than the remaining 

 tarsal joints, posterior limbs with the metatarsi, but slightly shorter 

 than the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color pea-green, of the most brilliant hue on the tegmina. 




712 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Eyes wood-brown. Stigma of the tegmina proximally and distally 

 bordered with dark brown. Wings with the entire surface hyaline 

 except the apex, which is suffused with pale greenish. Abdomen 

 pale greenish-yellow. Anterior femora with alternate spines on the 

 internal margin basally suffused with reddish-browTi. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 91 mm. 



Length of pronotum, .30.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 10.5 " 



Posterior width of pronotum, 6.5 " 



Length of anterior femora, 23 " 



Length of tegmina, 51 " 



Greatest width of tegmina, 18 " 



Greatest width of costal field of tegmina, 6 " 



The genus Rhombodera contains two structural t3q3es; one with the 

 lateral expansion of the pronotum very distinctly developed, somewhat 

 similar in superficial resemblance to that noticed in Chceradodis and 

 Deroplatys, and the other with these expansions limited or subobsolete. 

 In a species described by Brancsik, R. tamolana,^^ is found an annectant 

 type, in which the lateral expansions are fairly well marked, but strictly 

 confined to the anterior portion of the pronotum. 



Genus MANTIS Linnseus. 

 1758. Mantis Linnseus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 425. 

 Type. — Gryllus (Mantis) religiosus Linnseus.^^ 



Mantis religiosa Linnseus. 



1758. [Gryllus (Mantis)] religiosus Linnseus, Svst. Nat., X ed., p. 426. 

 ["Africa."] 



Three specimens; two males, one female : 



Chemulpo, Korea. August, 1890. (Dr. W. H. Jones.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila.] 



Yokohama, Japan. (Loomis.) [A. N. Caudell.] 



Kioto, Japan. (Y. Hirase.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



These specimens are apparently the first Japanese records for this 

 species. Saussure" has recorded individuals of M. religiosa from 

 Ning-po, China, and " le sud de la Siberie j usque sur les c6tes 

 orientales de I'Asie." 



The specimen from Kioto, although a female, is much smaller than 

 the male from Chemulpo, but this may be a character of the Japanese 



" Jahresh. Naturwiss. Ver., Trencsen, XIX, p. 62, tab. 1, fig. 8. 

 '- See Rehn, Canadian Entom., XXXIII, p. 119. 

 '■' Melanges Orthopterologiques, fasc. Ill, p. 415. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 713 



individuals, as the male from Yokohama is considerably smaller than 

 the Korean specimen. 



Genus CALIDOMANTIS Rehn { = Miomantis Saussure). 



1870. Miomantis Saussure, Bull. Soc. Entom. d\i Suisse, III, p. 228. (Not 



of Blanchard, 1842.) 

 1901. Calidomantis Rehn, Canad. Entom., XXXIII, p. 271. 



Type. — Mantis jenestrata Fabricius. 



Calidomantis menelikii (Bormans). 



1881. M[iomantis\ Menelikii Bormans, .\nn. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, 



XVI, p. 209, fig. [Let Marefia, Scioa.] 

 1901. Miomantis fenestrnta Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 284. 



(Not of Fabricius.) [Luku, Gallaland.] 



The two specimens recorded in the paper cited above prove to belong 

 to Bormans' species. A very interesting character, omitted from 

 Bormans' brief diagnosis, is the extremely short and transverse supra- 

 anal plate. 

 Calidomantis equalis'* n. sp. 



Type: ? ; Zulu Mission, South Africa. [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Allied to C. semialata (Saussure), ^^ but differing in the more robust 

 anterior portion of the pronotum, the higher and less depressed head, 

 and the more equal and less arcuate costal field of the tegmina. The 

 species described by Schulthess as Miomantis saiissiirei,^^ while very 

 closely related to the new form, can readily be distinguished by the 

 slender and attenuate anterior portion of the pronotum. 



Size rather small. Head broad, compressed, the superior margin 

 arcuate ; eyes subtriangular in basal outline, the lateral portion slightty 

 produced; antennae minute, weak; facial scutellum strongly trans- 

 verse, superior margin with a median rounded lobe flanked latcrall}' 

 by a concave sinuosity. Pronotum subequal in width, the anterior por- 

 tion exceeding the posterior part in width and slightly less than half the 

 length of the latter; anterior margin rotundate-truncate, lateral mar- 

 gins finely denticulate; amplication slight, rounded. Tegmina rather 

 short, lanceolate, apex moderately acute; costal field subequal in 

 width; anterior margin evenly and regularly arcuate. Wings about 

 equal to the tegmina in length. Abdomen fusiform, moderately 

 depressed ; supra-anal plate elongate, lanceolate, extending to the tip 

 of the compressed subgenital plate; cerci but slightly exceeding the 

 supra-anal plate in length. Anterior coxse about four-fifths the length 

 of the pronotum, margins finely denticulate; anterior femora very 



'* In relation to the broad and equal anterior portion of the pronotum. 



^^ Melanges Orthopterolog'iques, IV, p. 71, fig. 14. 



'« Bull. Soc. Vaudoise Sci. Nat., 4p ser., XXXV, p. 197. 




714 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



slightly shorter than the pronotum, rather heavy, third discoidal spine 

 very robust, external inferior margin with four large spines, internal 

 inferior margin with fourteen spines, one of which is apical and sepa- 

 rated from the others by a considerable diastema; anterior tibise 

 slightly' less than half the length of the femora, armed on the external 

 margin with seven spines placed on the median and apical portions, 

 the internal margin armed with eleven to twelve eventy distributed 

 spines; anterior metatarsi equal to two-thirds the length of the tibise 

 and exceeding the remaining tarsal joints. Median and posterior 

 limbs with the tibise slightly shorter than the femora, genicular spines 

 shght. 



General color dull yellowish-browii (specimen taken from alcohol). 

 Anterior femora with four spots of black on the internal surface, one 

 basal, two parallel and posterior to the ungual sulcus, the superior of 

 these being .the largest of any of the spots, and one anterior to the 

 sulcus. 



• Measurements. 



Total length 28 mm.^^ 



Greatest width of head, 5.5 " 



Length of pronotum, 11.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 2.9 " 



Length of tegmina, 12 " 



Length of anterior femora, 10 " 



Two other female individuals from the type locality have been 

 examined. 



Subfamily Harpaginse. 

 Genus DEROPLATYS Westwood. 

 1840. Deroplatys Westwood, in Duncan, Introd. to Entomology, I, p. 234. 

 Type. — Mcmtis {Deroplatys) desiccata Westwood. 



Deroplatys desiccata Westwood. 



1840. Mantis (Deroplatys) desiccata Westwood, in Duncan, Introd. to Ento- 

 mology, I, p. 234, pi. 9. [Malacca.] 



Two females; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. 

 N. M.] 



These two specimens represent two color phases; one a pale ochra- 

 ceous and sienna blended to give a very effective "dead leaf" appear- 

 ance, the other a dull brownish-purple, suffused on the tegmina with 

 v(;ry dull greenish-gray. 



" This is approximate, as the abdomen is considerably distorted. 




1903,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 715 



Deroplatys angustata Westwood. 



1845. Deroplatijs angustata Westwood, Arcana Entomologica, I, p. 34, 

 PI. 9, fig. 2.' [Java.] 



One male; Goenong Soegi, Lampong. Sumatra. October-Novem- 

 ber, 1901. (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila.] 



This specimen agrees exactly in the shape of the pronotimi with 

 the specimen figured by Westwood. 



Genus PHYLLOTHELYS Wood-Mason. 

 1S77. Phyllothelys Wood-Mason, Trans. Entom. Soc. London, 1877, p.xviii. 



Type. — Phyllocrania westiooodi Wood-^Iason. 

 Phyllotlielys mitratum n. sp. 



Type: 9 (immature); Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. I^. Abbott.) 

 [Cat. No. 6,972, U. S. N. M.] 



Closely allied to P. paradoxum Wood-^Iason,^^ but differing in the 

 form of the facial shield and clypeus, and the shorter head. 



Size rather small; form elongate, bacilliform. Head elongate; frontal 

 process almost twice the length of the remainder of head, depressed, 

 superior surface bearing a very distinct median foliaceous longi- 

 tudinal keel, lateral borders sinuate and bearing a distinct sub-basal 

 and submedian angular lobe, lower surface with a median thickened rib ; 

 eyes sub-ovoid, apex inferiorly; facial shield slightly broader than 

 high, inferior margin evenly and slightly arcuate, superior margin 

 decidedly arcuate, surface bearing two blunt longitudinal carinse; 

 clypeus transverse, slightly broader superiorly than inferiorly, lateral 

 margins sinuate, inferior margin subtriuicate. Pronotum very slender, 

 subecjual, slightly expanding posteriorly; anterior and posterior bor- 

 ders evenly rounded ; lateral margins sparsely denticulate ; supracoxal 

 lobes very slightly marked; median portion of the entire pronotum 

 bearing a faint longitudinal carina. JMesonotum and metanotum 

 slightly depressed. Abdomen strongly depressed, greatest width at 

 the fifth and sixth segments. Supra-anal plate transverse, the apex 

 rectangularly ])roduced and bearing a short longitudinal median carina. 

 Cerci short, not exceeding the supra-anal plate, fusiform, depressed, 

 apex acuminate. Subgenital plate transverse, evenly arcuate. An- 

 terior coxse slender, but slightly shorter than the pronotum, trigonal 

 in section, the inferior margin very weakly spined; femora slightly 

 longer than the coxae, slender, superior margin straight, external 

 margin with six spines, two of which are smaller than the others 



" Jour. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, LIII, Pt. 2, p. 209, PI. XIT, fig. 3. 




716 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.. 



and placed on the genicular lobe, discoidal spines four in number, 

 internal margin bearing fifteen spines, of which the apical is the 

 largest; tibitr about one-half the length of the femora, external mar- 

 gin bearing eleven and the internal thirteen spines ; metatarsi about 

 equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length. ]\Iedian and posterior 

 femora bearing lateral foliaceous crenulate expansions, genicular spines 

 distinct; median and posterior tibise almost equal to their respective 

 femora in length, basally inflated and tumid. 



General color very dark wood-brown; inner face and lower surface 

 of the anterior coxee rich red-brown, the lower margin of the coxse 

 alternating ochraceous and black; anterior femora "«uth the internal 

 face brownish-black, bearing a large spot of ochraceous between the 

 discoidal spines and the apex, and another smaller one at the base of 

 the discoidal spines. 



Measurements. 



Total length (approximately), 26.7 mm. 



Length of head, 5.5 " 



Length of cephalic appendage (from the superior margin of 



the eyes), 3.5 " 



Length of pronotmn (approximately), 10.6 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 1.5 " 



Greatest width of abdomen, 3 " 



Length of anterior femora, 6.5 " 



Genus PSEUDOCREOBOTRA Saussure. 



1870. Pseudocreobotra Saussure, Bull. Soc. Entom. Suisse, III, pp. 241 and 

 242. 



Type. — Pseudocreobotra ocellata (Palisot). 



Pseudocreoljotra wahlbergii St&l. 



1877. P[seudocreobotra] Wahlbergii Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. 

 Handlingar, IV, No. 10, p. 85. [Caffraria; Zanzibar.] 



Four specimens; adult male and female, two immature individuals; 

 Zulu Mission, South Africa. [A. X. S. Phila.] 



On comparison with these specimens, P. amarce Rehn" from western 

 Gallaland is seen to be a very distinct species. The two forms, which 

 occupy quite different regions, may be separated as follows: 



A. — Pronotum with the paired tubercles by the posterior margin 

 distinct and dentiform; head with the frontal process considerably 

 longer than the height of the clypeus ; costal margin of the tegmina 

 one and three-fourths millimeters in greatest width, 



wahlbergii Stal. 



19 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 2S6. 




1903 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 717 



A A. — Pronotum with the paired tubercles by the posterior margin 

 subobsolete; head with the frontal process considerably shorter 

 than the height of clypeus ; costal margin of the tegmina not over 

 one millimeter in width, amorcr Rehn. 



Genus THEOPROPTJS Saussure. 

 1898. Theoprojnis Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, V, p. 204. 

 Included T. elegans (Westwood) and T. prcecontatrix Saussure, of 

 which the former may be considered the type. 



Theopropus elegans (Westwood). 



1832. Blepharis elegans^^ Westwood, in Griffith's Animal Kingdom, XV, 

 p. 190, PL 78, fig. 3. [Tenasserim.] 



One somewhat immature female; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. 

 Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This species has also been recorded from Java by Saussure. The 

 specimen measures as follows : 



Total length (approximately), 27 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 8 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 6 " 



Greatest width of abdomen, 6.5 " 



Length of anterior femora, 10 " 



Genus PARYMENOPTJS Wood-Mason. 



1890. Parymenopus Wood-Mason, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 6th ser., V, 

 p. 437. 



Type. — Pary)nenopus davisoni Wood-Mason. 



Parymenopus davisoni Wood-Mason. 



1890. Parymenopus Davisoni Wood-Mason, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 6th 

 ser., V, p. 437, PI. XVII. [Singapore.] 



One female; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. 

 X. M.] 



This specimen agrees very well with the description of the type 

 except for the fact that the number of spines on the external margin 

 of the anterior tibiae is less (21 and 21 instead of 23), and the individual 

 (>xamined is of larger size. 



Subfamily Vaticse. 



Genus POPA Stiil. 



1857. Popa Sta], Of versigt K. Vetenskaps-Akade miens Forhandlingar, XIII, 

 p. 169. 



Type. — Popa spurca Stal. = Maniis undata Fabricius. 



■^° By a tjrpographical error misspelled elegaus in the text, but the plate bears 

 the correct form. 




718 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.. 



Popa undata (Fabricius). 



1793. [Mantis] undata Fabricius, Entom. Sy.st., II, p. 19. ["Tranquebar."] 



Four specimens; three females, one immature individual; Zulu 

 Mission, South Africa. [A. N. S. Phila.] 



No difference can be detected on comparison with Somaliland and 

 Gallaland specimens. ' 



Genus DANUEIA St&l. 



1857. Danuria Stal, Ofversigt K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar, 

 XIII, p. 169. 



Type. — Danuria thunbergi Stal. 



Danuria thunbergi St&l. 



1857. D[anuria] Thunbergi Stal, Ofversigt K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens For- 

 handlingar, XIII, p. 169. [Port Natal.] 



One male; South Africa. [A. X. S. Phila.] 

 Subfamily Bmpusinse. 



Genus IDOLOMORPHA Burmeister. 



1838. Idolomorpha Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom, II, p. 547. 



Included lateralis Burmeister and gracilis Burmeister, of which the 

 former may be considered the type. 



Idolomorpha wahlbergi (Stil). 



1857. T'[ates] Wahlbergi Stal, Ofversigt K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens For- 

 handlingar, XIII, p. 167. [Port Natal.] 



Two specimens; c? and ? ; Zulu Mission, South Africa. [A. X. S. 

 Phila. 1 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 719 



November 3. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Two hundred and seventy persons present. 



On a Collection of Anthropoids. — Dr. Henry C. Chapman called 

 attention to and described a fine collection recently presented by Dr. 

 Thomas Biddle, consisting of mounted skins and skeletons of a gorilla, 

 three chimpanzees and an orang utan, together with skeletons of man 

 and a young orang utan. Comment was made on the peculiarities 

 which ally man to the anthropoids or separate him from them, as shown 

 in the skeleton, muscles, brain, viscera. The structure of the hand 

 and foot of man as compared with the corresponding jiarts of the 

 anthropoids was dwelt on at length. 



]\Ir. Arthur Erwin Brown spoke of the specific distinctions recog- 

 nized among the anthropoids, their geographical distribution and 

 habits. He explained the hypotheses which have been offered since 

 Darwin to account for the stages in the phylogeny of the Anthropoidea, 

 and spoke of certain characters in the teeth and vertebral column which 

 appear to support Cope's view of their derivation directly from the 

 Eocene lemuroids, without the intervention of catarrhine monkeys. 

 Casts of the earliest known fossil human skulls were shown, and the 

 opinion was expressed that the Neanderthal and Java men were 

 distinctly intermediate types. 




720 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Xov., 



DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW SPECIES OF POLYCH^TA FEOM WOOD'S 

 HOLE. MASSACHUSETTS. 



BY J. PERCY ]\IOORE. 



Nereis arenaceodentata n. sp. 



A small, slender species, seldom exceeding an inch in length. The 

 head (PI. XL, fig. 1) is about as long as broad, rouglily quadrate, 

 with the posterior side about 1^ times the anterior, which is strongly 

 convex, the lateral borders bulging posteriorly, excavated and -oTinkled 

 anteriorly. The two pairs of conspicuous, black, broadly elhptical 

 eyes are almost in contact near the postero-lateral angles of the head ; 

 the anterior somewhat more widely separated and slightly the larger. 

 Frontal tentacles about f head, slender, conical, divergent; their bases 

 separated by about twice their diameter. Palps thick, swollen at the 

 base, conical but suddenty constricted and bent at the terminal third; 

 the style minute and retracted but reaching beyond the frontal tenta- 

 cles. Tentacular cirri all relatively short and moderately slender, with 

 very short crowded basal pieces; the anterior dorsal is about equal to 

 the head ; the anterior ventral about f , the posterior dorsal about 

 twice and the posterior ventral about f as long. The buccal region is 

 swollen and wTinkled. 



At the anterior end a region of the body comprising the first 4 or 5 

 somites is considerably enlarged and quite terete; the body then rap- 

 idly narrows to about somite X, beyond which it is nearly linear and 

 of uniform diameter to near the caudal end. At first the parapodia 

 are small, but increase in length as the width of the body diminishes, 

 so that the total width remains nearly uniform. Beyond the first 

 third the length of the parapodia equals the ^idth of the body and the 

 animal assumes a depressed aspect. The caudal end terminates quite 

 abruptly in a short pygidimn bearing a pair of anal styles equal in 

 length to the last 8 or 9 segments. There are 49 setigerous somites 

 in the type. 



The parapodia are all distinctly biramous. In the first (fig. 2) the 

 notopodium is relatively small and simple and is achaetous and lacks 

 an aciculum; it consists of a short cylindrical base bearing a single 

 conical lobe, and an equally long, but more slender, dorsal cirrus. 

 The neuropodium is larger, contains an aciculum and bears setae; 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 721 



besides a short, thick, blunt acicular lobe it bears a posterior and a 

 ventral lobe, both of which are bluntly conical and have their free 

 portions subequal. The ventral cirrus, borne at the base of the neuro- 

 podium. is rather thick with a constricted base, and reaches the tip 

 of the acicular lobe. 



The next two or three parapodia change quickly, and by the fifth 

 (fig. 3) the typical form is attained. The bases of both rami are longer 

 and deeper, and in the neuropodium the posterior lobe has lengthened 

 so that it reaches distinctly beyond the ventral lobe; both lobes are 

 more pointed. The notopodium exceeds the neuropodium in size 

 and complexity, having a short, posterior acicular lobe and three 

 pointed conical processes, of which the dorsal is the largest, the ventral 

 as long but more slender, and the anterior, which lies immediately be- 

 fore the fascicle of setae, much the smallest. The slender dorsal cirrus 

 is nearly as long as the dorsal lobe, from just within the base of which 

 it arises. 



In succeeding parapodia, besides a general increase in size many 

 changes in proportion of parts take place. The two rami become more 

 elongated and crowded together, as shown in the thirtieth parapodium 

 (fig. 4). Here both dorsal and ventral cirri have become much more 

 slender and reduced to a length of ^ or ^ of the parapodium, and the 

 former is carried much farther out than in preceding somites; the 

 neuropodial acicular lobe is very prominent, with a distinct presetal 

 process and bears the posterior lobe as a postsetal process, while the 

 ventral lobe has undergone little alteration beyond being more pointed. 

 The notopodium is nearly twice as deep as the neuropodium, beyond 

 which it also extends; the largely developed acicular lobe bears the 

 pointed, now subequal, anterior and ventral lobes as presetal processes; 

 the dorsal lobe stands more apart as a broad, triangular, somewhat 

 flattened piece. Still farther caudad all of the lobes shrink in size and 

 become elevated on a longer basal region. 



Except the notopodium of the first, each ramus of every parapodium 

 contains a single aciculum which is simple, slender, tapering and color- 

 less. 



There are two kinds of seta?, both having rather slender, shghtly 

 curved, transparent, colorless and camerated shafts. In one form (fig. 

 8) the blades are very long, slender and acute, especially in the middle 

 region of the body, with one margin delicately fringed; the shafts, as 

 compared with the other kind, are longer, more slender and have the 

 margins of the socket of nearly equal height all around. The other 

 form (fig. 7) has the shaft somewhat stouter and more curved, the end 

 46 




722 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



more distinctly enlarged and the margin of the socket very obhque; 

 the appendage is never more than h as long as in the first kind, and is 

 usually ^ or J as long, is more distinctly fringed and terminates abruptly 

 in a rather coarse hook. The entire seta is less than or only equal to 

 the shaft alone of the first kind. 



The short setae occur in both notopodium and neuropodium and in 

 both dorsal and ventral fascicles of the latter. The first parapodium 

 lacks notopodial setse altogether and only 1 to 3 of this kind are found 

 in the neuropodium. In the notopodium of the fifth 5 or 6 occur, and 

 in the neuropodium there are 3 or 4 in the dorsal part of each fascicle. 

 Toward the middle of the body the number increases, the twentieth 

 parapodium supporting about 30 in a spreading fan-shaped notopodial 

 bundle and 6 to 8 in the dorsal part of each neuropodial fascicle. 

 The thirtieth foot shows a slightly increased number, which by the 

 fortieth has fallen to about 8 in each ramus. The second form of seta 

 is restricted to the neuropodium, the dorsal bundle of which contains 

 from 3 to 5 and the ventral bundle from 12 to 20 in the first thirty 

 parapodia. while the single bundle of the fortieth contains but 3 

 altogether. 



There is nothing characteristic about the jaws, which have the usual 

 brown color and curved form with a broad base, acute terminal fang 

 and 6 or 7 smaller teeth. The paragnatha (figs. 5 and 6) are very char- 

 acteristic. All of the areas of the basal ring have united into a con- 

 tinuous zone somewhat narrow^er on the dorsum, covered thickly and 

 uniformly with small, grainlike, bluntly conical, horny papillae (fig. 9), 

 measuring from .03 mm. to .04 mm. in height and the same in diameter. 

 On the maxillary ring the usual six areas are distinctly differentiated. 

 The paragnatha of the 3 dorsal areas especially are distinctly coarser 

 and more elevated (fig. 10), those of the most anterior rows being largest 

 and strongly hooked. The median dorsal area has the form of an 

 ellipse, about twice as wide as long and formed of about six transverse 

 rows of about six each, except at the ends. The dorso-lateral areas 

 are narrowly crescentic, composed of few paragnaths, but the anterior 

 ones the largest and most strongly hooked of all. The median ventral 

 is nearly circular, composed of numerous small paragnaths similar to 

 those of the basal row and arranged in curved transverse rows. Finally 

 the ventro-lateral areas are drop-shaped with the base toward the 

 jaws and a slender pointed tail. None of the specimens had the pro- 

 boscis protruded and the arrangement of the paragnatha had to be 

 determined b}^ dissection. Some allowance must therefore be made 

 for distortion of the form of the areas on the folded surface. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 723 



The type specimen is 22 mm. long, 2.3 mm. between the tips of the 

 parapodia without setae and .7 mm. in width of body in the middle 

 region. 



The small size of the species might lead to the belief that it is an 

 immature phase of another species, but any doubt as to its distinctness 

 is dispelled by the presence of large numbers of mature ova in the 

 coelom of many specimens. The species occurs occasionally on mussel 

 beds just below low water and was fovmd quite commonly during the 

 latter part of August, both of 1902 and 1903, swimming at the surface 

 of Wood's Hole harbor with other species of sexually mature nereids 

 and syllids. 

 Loimia viridis n. sp. 



In the preserved state the body is rather slender and regularly taper- 

 ing, the thoracic region passing easily into the abdominal without any 

 sudden diminution in size, though the former is circular in cross-section, 

 the latter flattened below and highly arched above. The first thirteen 

 somites are smooth and not annulated, the remaining thoracic and first 

 two abdominal (which are longer than the succeeding ones) strongly 

 but somewhat irregularly subdivided. Apparently there are three 

 primary annuli, the middle one of which bears the parapodia and an 

 irregular zone of sense organs. Each is divided into two or three very 

 short, often incomplete annuli. This condition passes gradually into 

 the typical biannulate arrangement of the middle abdominal somites, 

 in which a somewhat larger posterior annulus bears the parapodia 

 and sensory zone. Toward the caudal end the somites become very 

 short and simple. The anus is small and surrounded by four very short 

 papillse. 



There are nine ventral plates, the first corresponding to somites II 

 to V, the limits of which are indicated by faint grooves, and extending 

 high upon the sides. Successive plates become gradually narrower 

 and longer, the second being three times as wide as long, while the 

 eighth is as long as the width of its anterior and one and one-half times 

 its posterior end. The ninth is narrow, transversely wrinkled and 

 ends opposite the middle of somite XIII. All of the ninth and the 

 posterior half of the eighth are highly vascular. Dorsad of the ventral 

 plates on each side is a whitish, thickened glandular area anteriorly 

 including the bases of the branchiae and nearly meeting on the dorsum. 

 Posterior to the branchiae they quickly become narrowed and restricted 

 to the region of the parapodia and disappear altogether at about XII or 

 XIII. 



The prostomium surrounds the mouth completely and consists of a 




724 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



broad, flat, smooth dorsal lobe projecting prominently over the mouth, 

 and much shorter thin lobes on each side which meet in the middle 

 line below and join the peristomium by a narrow isthmus. Tentacles 

 numerous but small, borne on rather restricted areas which meet in the 

 middle line and extend on each side of the posterior part of the prosto- 

 miimi. In the preserved specimen the length of the tentacles is less 

 than the diameter of the branchial region. They are attached by 

 contracted bases in the same manner as Andrews has described for 

 L. turgida. There is no post-tentacular fold and no eyes. 



The peristomium is largely retracted within the free margin of the 

 first ventral plate, from which it projects as a pair of thin lobes which 

 widen dorsally and conceal the ventral limb of the prostomium ; on the 

 dorsal side the peristomium is scarcely recognizable. 



Three pairs of branchiae occur on somites II, III and IV; the first 

 is very large, with a length exceeding the diameter of the body at that 

 point, while the third is scarcely one-fifth as long. They are tall 

 arboriform, each with a stout, tapering, irregularly bent stem bearing 

 irregularly alternate branches (5 on the 3d to 11 on the 1st), each 

 of which again divides in the same irregular manner 3 or 4 times, 

 resulting in very numerous, fine and densely tufted terminal twigs. 



The first parapodium is merely a setigerous tubercle just beneath the 

 third branchia. The remaining thoracic ones have rather prominent 

 dorsal setigerous tubercles and uncigerous tori which are at first short, 

 but increase in length and shift ventrad as the ventral plates diminish 

 in size ; posterior to the region of the ventral plates these tori become 

 more elevated and nearly meet in the ventral mid-line. The abdomi- 

 nal uncigerous tori are truncate, flattened tubercles projecting caudad 

 from the posterior margin of the somites on the ventro-lateral angle ^ 

 the caudal members of the series becoming minute. 



The setae (fig. 11) of each tuft are arrranged in two vertical rows, 

 one composed of more slender, the other of stouter setae. The former 

 are nearly colorless, slightly curved, axially faintly striated and have 

 a very narrow marginal wing. The latter are yellowish, nearly 

 straight, rapidly tapering in the exposed part, doubly winged, both 

 wings being obliquely striated and one much wider, the core strongly 

 marked with parallel longitudinal striations and the superficial fibers 

 radiating in all directions to the surface which, as a consequence, has 

 the appearance of being regularly marked with rows of fine granules 

 or very short lines. 



(3n somites XI to XX the uncini are in two rows, on V to X inclusive 

 and caudad of XX in but one row. On the posterior thoracic somites 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 725 



they are very numerous, each torus of somite XX, for example, con- 

 taining upward of 400, while on XXI, the first abdominal somite, there 

 are but 80. As usual in the genus, they have the form of flat pectinate 

 plates (figs. 12, 13 and 14) set on edge in the integument with the 

 curved teeth exposed, but they are broader apically than in most 

 species and usually have 6 well-developed teeth, the apical one the 

 smallest and occasionally absent, the basal one much the stoutest, 

 the base strongly convex with a prominent posterior process and a 

 small tubercle usually present beneath the lowermost tooth. 



The total length of the type is 107 mm., width in the branchial 

 region 7.5 mm., width at somite XXI 4 mm., number of somites 92, 

 of which 20 are thoracic and 72 abdominal; somites V to XX are 

 setigerous and uncini are present on all somites beginning with V. 



The color when living is olive-green, purest in the posterior region, 

 becoming lighter and more or less tinged with red or yellow anteriorly 

 as a result of the blood-vessels showing through the integument. The 

 tori, particularly on the somites bearing capillary setse, are greenish- 

 yellow edged with a narrow red blood-vessel which forms a red spot 

 dorsad of the fascicles of setae. The ventral plates are yellowish or 

 olive-buff with the prominent anterior border pale green and the 

 furrows and a narrow lateral edging blood-red, while a deep red clot- 

 like spot covers a narrow area extending over the middle ventral por- 

 tion of somites XII, XIII and XIV, from which a distinct red line 

 marks the course of a subneural vessel to XXI. The lower lip is 

 green, the upper red, the tentacles pale pink. The branchiae have 

 red stalks with green or white branches. 



From most of the nine undoubted species of the genus which have 

 been described from various parts of the world L. viridis is distinguished 

 by its color. From L. turgida Andrews, the only species hitherto 

 taken on the Atlantic coast of the United States, the shape of the uncini 

 and the absence of dark pigmented rings on the tentacles afford the 

 best distinctions. 



The only example of this species known was found by Mr. George 

 Gray burrowing in a soil of sandy mud with Amphitrite ornata below 

 low water at Ram Island, Wood's Hole, on August 4, 1902. Repeated 

 search since then has failed to bring any additional specimens to fight, 

 and as it is a very conspicuous species it must be quite rare or inhabit 

 some locality hitherto unexplored. When brought to me this example 

 occupied a thick mud tube nearly indistinguishable from that of 

 Amphitrite. 



The types of these two species are in the collection of this Academy. 




726 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Explanation of Plate XL. 

 Nereis arenaceodentata. 



Fig. 1. — Dorsal view of anterior end. X 32. 



Figs. 2, 3 and 4. — Outlines without setae of the 1st, 5th and 30th parapodia 

 respectively, from cephalic side. X 56. 



Figs. 5 and 6. — Dorsal and ventral aspects respectively of protruded pro- 

 boscis, showing the arrangement of the paragnatha; from a dissec- 

 tion. X 32. 



Figs. 7 and 8. — Examples of the two kinds of setae, from somite XX. 

 X 1200. Many of the stouter sort have the appendage much 

 shorter. 



Fig. 9. — Several of the paragnatha from the basal zone. X 360. 



Fig. 10. — The same from the median dorsal maxillary area. X 360. 



Loimia viridis. 



Fig. 11. — One of the stouter setae from somite X. X 250. These setae 

 are seldom so straight as represented in the drawing, which has been 

 somewhat diagrammatized from a camera sketch. 



Figs. 12, 13 and 14. — Three uncini from the dorsal, middle and ventral 

 regions respectively, of a torus of somite XXVI. X 360. These 

 show nearly the extremes of variation, figure 13 being the most usual 

 form, but slightly foreshortened. 




1903.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 727 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW, LITTLE KNOWN, AND TYPICAL ATHERINID^. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The material on which the present paper is based is all contained 

 in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



ATHERINIDJE. 

 Subfamily Atherininae. 



Premaxillaries freely protractile, skin not continuous with that oi 

 forehead. 



ATHERINA Linnaeus. 

 Subgenus ATHERINA Linnaeus. 



Type Atherina hepsetus Linnaeus. 

 Rami of mandible elevated inside of mouth. 



Atherina lacustris Bonaparte. 



Fauna Italica, Pesc, III, xvii, xviii, 1836, descr., PI. 91, fig. 3. Albano, 



Nemi. [Lakes in Italy.] Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Pesc. Europ., 1846, 



p. 57. Lace. Nem. Alb. Bols. [No descr.] 



Head 4i; depth 6^; D. VIII-I, 10; A. I, 12; P. I, 12; V. I, 5; scales 

 48 to base of caudal; 21 before spinous dorsal; 10 between latter and 

 base of ventral; width of head 2 in its length; depth of head 1^; 

 snout 4; eye 3; maxillary 2^; interorbital space 3^; pectoral If r ven- 

 tral If ; caudal peduncle from last dorsal ray a little shorter than head ; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 4. 



Body elongate, slender and greatest depth about base of ventral 

 fin. Side compressed, somewhat flattened. Caudal peduncle elongate, 

 compressed, and least depth near base of caudal. 



Head elongate, rather deep, and blunt in front. Width of head pos- 

 terior to eyes much wider than anterior portion and a little wider than 

 any portion of trunk. Sides of head compressed, somewhat con- 

 stricted below. Snout above, and interorbital space, flattened, and 

 with three low longitudinal ridges, but not extending posteriorly be- 

 yond eyes. Top of head posterior to eyes convex. Snout rather large, 

 conic, not much broader than deep. Eye rather large, anterior, 

 hardly impinging on upper profile. Mouth moderately large, oblique, 

 and lower jaw protruding. Maxillary narrow, reaching below front 




728 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



rim of orbit. Mandible rather small, not broad, and each ramus ele- 

 vated inside of mouth. Teeth minute, jaws forming a thin narrow 

 cutting edge. Xo teeth on vomer and palatines. Tongue far back 

 in mouth, rather small, elongate, free along sides, and united by median 

 frenum with floor of mouth. Nostrils lateral, in front of eye above. 

 Interorbital space a trifle broader than snout, and flattened. Post- 

 ocular ridge distinct. 



Gill-opening large, carried forward till about under front rim of 

 orbit. Rakers long, slender and numerous on first arch. Filaments 

 numerous, about equal to rakers in length. Pseudobranchiae large, 

 much longer than filaments. Isthmus long and narrow. Branchi- 

 ostegal membranes united by narrow frenum in front. Lower surface 

 of isthmus with a shallow groove. 



Scales large, thin, cycloid, and not imbricated. Three rows on cheek. 

 Opercles scaled, and top of head posteriorly scaled to eyes. Snout, 

 interorbital space, jaws, and lower hyal region naked. Snout, both 

 above and on sides, together with interorbital space with cavernous 

 bones, ridges connected by soft membranes. This region also fur- 

 nished with pores. Pectoral without flap. Ventrals with rather short 

 scaly flap between their bases, and each with a small short axillary 

 scale. 



Origin of spinous dorsal nearer tip of snout than base of caudal by 

 length of ventral. Spines pungent, slender, third and fourth longest 

 and subequal. Soft dorsal inserted a little behind anal, much nearer 

 origin of ventral or spinous dorsal than base of caudal, and second ray 

 highest. Anal inserted nearer base of caudal than origin of pectoral, 

 and anterior rays highest. Caudal rather small, deeply emarginate. 

 Pectoral broad, level with eye, and reaching over origin of ventral. 

 Ventral reaching under posterior portion of spinous dorsal or half way 

 to origin of anal. Anus well posterior or a little nearer tip of ventral 

 than origin of anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brown, sides of head and trunk more or less pale 

 silvery. Back specked with small dark brown dots. Side with longi- 

 tudinal narrow silvery band about as wide as pupil of eye extending 

 to base of caudal. Fins plain pale brown. Peritoneum black. 



Length (caudal damaged) 4y% inches. 



Type of Atherina lacustris Bonaparte, No. 9,953, A. N. S. P. Italy. 

 Bonaparte Coll. (No. 341). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Twenty-one co-types with same data. 



Thirty-eight examples, also from Italy, with the same data except 

 that the lake from which they were taken is not given. (No. 348.) 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 729 



Three examples from Bracciano, the data otherwise hke preceding. 



(No. 348.) 



Ninety-five examples from Italy, also with same data. (No. 412.) 

 This species, originally from the lakes in the State of Rome, is easily 



distinguished from the other species of Atherina by the slender body. 



Atherina sardinella sp. nov. Plate XLI (upper figure). 



Head 4; depth 5; D. VH-I, 11; A. I. 13; P. I, 12; V. I, 5; 



scales 46 to base of caudal; 20 before spinous dorsal; 10 between spin- 

 ous dorsal and base of ventral; width of head 2^ in length; depth of 

 head H; snout 3|-; eye 3^; maxillary 2f ; interorbital space 3^; pec- 

 toral If; ventral 2; caudal pedimcle, from base of last dorsal ray, a 

 little shorter than head; least depth of caudal peduncle 4^. 



Body elongate, fusiform, greatest depth about ventral fin. Sides 

 compressed, slightly flattened. Caudal peduncle elongate, slender, 

 compressed, and its least depth near base of caudal. 



Head elongate, attenuate, compressed, not broad behind eyes where 

 greatest width is found. This is also widest part of body. Side of 

 head more or less flattened and constricted below. Snout above, and 

 interorbital space flattened, with three low longitudinal ridges extend- 

 ing posteriorly over latter but not beyond eyes. Top of head posterior 

 to eyes and interorbital space convex. Snout long, conic, pointed 

 and not broad. Eye moderately large, anterior, and hardly impinging 

 on upper profile. Mouth moderate, oblique, and lower jaw protruding. 

 ^Maxillary narrow, slightly curved, and reaching posteriorly a little be- 

 yond front rim of orbit. Mandible conspicuous, moderately large, 

 not broad, and each ramus elevated somewhat inside of mouth. Teeth 

 distinct, small, sharp-pointed, conic, and in several series forming 

 narrow bands in jaws. Vomer with conspicuous patch of small conic 

 pointed teeth. Palatines with short narrow band of similar teeth. 

 Tongue with small patch of minute pointed teeth, rather far back. 

 Tongue small, far back in mouth, elongate, free along sides, and united 

 with floor of mouth by a median frenum. Nostrils lateral, rather 

 high, and in front of eye above. Interorbital space a little wider than 

 snout. Postocular ridge distinct. 



Gill-opening large and carried forward till nearly below front rim 

 of orbit. Gill-rakers long, compressed, slender, numerous, and longer 

 than longest gill-filaments on first arch. Gill-filaments numerous, and 

 short on hypo and ceratobranchials. Pseudobranchiac large, much 

 longer than longest gill-filaments. Isthmus long, narrow, branchi- 

 ostegal membrane united by a narrow frenum in front. Lower 

 surface of isthmus with rather broad groove. 




730 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Scales large, thin, cycloid, and not especially imbricated. Two rows 

 on cheek. Opercle and top of head till behind eyes and interorbital 

 space also scaled, rest of head naked. Snout and interorbital space 

 more or less cavernous, bony ridges connected by soft membranes 

 furnished with pores. Pectoral without scaly flap at axil. A single 

 rather small scaly flap between bases of ventrals. 



Origin of spinous dorsal nearer tip of snout than base of caudal- 

 Dorsal spines slender, third probably longest, and fin reaching about 

 f of distance to origin of soft dorsal. Soft dorsal inserted posterior 

 to origin of anal, much nearer origin of spinous dorsal than base of 

 caudal, and anterior rays much higher than others. Anal with ante- 

 rior rays longest. Caudal emarginate. Pectoral rather broad, high, 

 and reaching about opposite root of ventral. Ventral small, inserted 

 much nearer origin of anal than posterior rim of orbit. Anus placed 

 about first third of space between tip of ventral and origin of anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brown, more or less dull silvery, especially 

 below. Side of body with a narrow silvery longitudinal band, nearly as 

 wide as pupil of eye, extending to base of caudal. Fins pale brown, 

 without markings. Each scale on back with a number of fine dark 

 dots. Peritoneum silvery. 



Length (caudal damaged) 4y\ inches. 



Type No. 15,397, A. N. S. P. Italy. Bonaparte Coll. Dr. T. B. 

 Wilson. 



Twenty-nine co-types with same data. 



Ten examples. Same data. (No. 345.) Identified as " Atherina 

 sarda." 



This species may be found identical with. Atherina sarda Valenciennes, 

 but the latter is said to have D. VI-9, A. 10. The description, like 

 that of Atherina corneda Rafinesque, is too imperfect to permit of 

 identification. 



{SardineUa, diminutive of Sardina, a sardine.) 



ATHERINOMORUS subgen. nov. 



Type Atherina laticeps Poey. 

 Rami of mandible not elevated inside of mouth. Anus well anterior 

 to tips of ventrals. Head broad. Eyes large. 

 {'Adepcyrj, Atherina; oiiiiftdq, near.) 



ISCHNOMEMBRAS gen. nov. 

 Type Ischnomemhras gabunensis sp. nov. 

 A single row^ or series of scales on cheek. Mandible slightly protrud- 

 ing. Mouth curved in profile. Eye large. Scales moderate. Peri- 

 toneum pale. Anal rather long. Apparently near Chirostoma. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 731 



( Yff/vor, slender; iihiiiSpd-:, Membras, an old name congeneric with 

 Atherina.) 

 Ischuomembras gabunensis sp. nov. Plate XLII (upper figure). 



Head 3f ; depth 6; 1). VI-I, 9; A. I, 16; P. I, 13?; V. I, 5; scales 

 about 40 (squamation injured), to base of caudal; about 14 before 

 spinous dorsal; 7 between second dorsal and origin of anal; width of 

 head 2| in its length; depth of head If; snout 3f; eye3|-; maxillary 3; 

 width of mouth 4|; interorbital space 3h; pectoral H; ventral 2; 

 length of caudal peduncle a little less than head ; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 3J. 



Body rather elongate, compressed, and slender. Sides slightly con- 

 vex. Caudal peduncle elongate, compressed, and its least depth about 

 f its length. 



Head large, elongate, conic, depressed above, compressed laterally 

 and broadly constricted below. Greatest width, also greatest width 

 of body, at postocular region. Side of head more or less flat. Top 

 of head smooth, without conspicuous ridges, and slightly convex till 

 behind eyes. Snout rather long, pointed, and broadly depressed. 

 Eye rather large, anterior, and close to upper profile. Mouth large, 

 oblique, and mandible slightly protruding. Premaxillaries protractile. 

 Front of upper jaw depressed. Mouth curved in profile. Maxillaries 

 narrow, small, and not reaching opposite front rim of orbit. Mandi- 

 ble expanded anteriorly till as wide as upper jaw, and each ramus 

 elevated rather high inside of mouth. Teeth minute, in narrow bands 

 along edges of each jaw, and none on vomer and palatines. Tongue 

 moderately long, flattened, free in front, and placed rather far back. 

 Nostrils well separated, lateral, anterior circular about half-way in 

 length of snout, and posterior a small slit above eye in front. Inter- 

 orbital space scarcely wider than snout. Postocular ridge distinct. 



Gill-opening large, carried forward below middle of orbit. Rakers 

 short, small, not much more than half of length of filaments and mod- 

 erate. Filaments long. No pseudobranchiae. Isthmus narrow and 

 trenchant below, and anteriorly gill-membranes united across for short 

 distance. 



Scales small, thin, cycloid, and somewhat imbricated. Top of head 

 scaled, but scales not extending forward to eye. Opercles scaled, and 

 row of broad scales on cheek. Snout and interorbital space naked, 

 not especially cavernous, and without any ridges. 



Origin of spinous dorsal nearer tip of snout than base of caudal. 

 Dorsal spines weak, somewhat pungent, and when depressed fin reaches 

 f of distance to soft dorsal. Second and third spines longest. Soft 




732 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XoV., 



dorsal inserted before middle of base of anal, and anterior rays highest. 

 Anal large, inserted much nearer base of caudal than tip of snout, and 

 first rays highest. Pectoral elongate, pointed, and reaching a little 

 beyond root of ventral. Ventral rather small, reaching about f of 

 space to anal fin. Caudal emarginate. Anus placed nearer tip of 

 ventral than origin of anal fin. 



Color in alcohol imiform pale brown, with traces of silvery, especially 

 on lower surface and side of head. A narrow silvery band, not wider 

 than pupil, extending along side to base of caudal. Fins pale bro^-n. 

 Peritoneum silvery. 



Length 2^% inches. 



Type No. 14,934, A. N. S. P. Gabun river, Gabun country. West 

 Africa. P. B. DuChaillu. 



Two examples inclusive of type. 



(Gahunensis, of the Gabun river.) 



PHOXAEGYREA gen. nov. 



Type Phoxargyrea dayi sp. nov. 

 Peritoneum silvery, otherwise close to Menidia. 

 (^o^«?, tapering; 'Apyopia^ Argyrea, an old name applied to Menidia, 

 from silver, or made of silver.) 



Phoxargyrea dayi sp. nov. Plate XLI (lower figure). 



Head 4f ; depth 6^; D. IV-I, 10; A. I, 24; P. I, 13; V. I, 5; scales 

 48 to base of caudal; 28 before spinous dorsal counting from interor- 

 bital space; about 9 obliquely between spinous dorsal and anal; width 

 of head 2^ in its length; depth of head If; snout 3; eye 3f ; maxillary 

 3|; interorbital space 3|; pectoral 1^; ventral 2; length of caudal 

 peduncle from last dorsal ray a little over length of head ; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 3j. 



Body elongate, slender, compressed, and greatest depth about origin 

 of anal. Side compressed, and more or less flattened. Caudal pedua- 

 cle elongate, narrow, compressed, and its least depth midway in its 

 length. 



Head elongate, compressed, attenuate, rather narrow, flattened 

 above in front, then convex posteriorly and sides flattened. Top of 

 head smooth, without ridges. Snout elongate, conic, and somewhat 

 flattened above. Eye moderately large, a little anterior, and not 

 impinging on upper profile. Mouth rather small, obUque, and jaws 

 subequal in closed mouth. Premaxillary broad posteriorly, its edge 

 strongly curved. Corner of mouth about midway between tip of 

 snout and front rim of orbit. IMandible rather small, not forming a 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 733 



beak with upper jaw, and each ramus elevated inside of mouth. Ijps 

 thin, fleshy at corner of mouth. Teeth small in jaws, those in front of 

 upper curved downward. Vomer and palatines edentulous. Tongue 

 far back, flattened, elongate, rounded, and free in front. Nostrils 

 lateral, above and in front of eyes. Interorbital space broad, slightly 

 convex. Postocular ridge not distinct. 



Gill-opening rather large, carried forward till below middle of eye. 

 Rakers fine, numerous, and slender on first arch. Filaments moder- 

 ately long, or about equal to rakers, and numerous. No pseudo- 

 branchiae. Isthmus a long, narrow, sharp-edged keel anteriorly. 

 Branchiostegal membranes united for short distance at first, also 

 adnate by means of frenum to anterior portion of isthmus. 



Scales small, cycloid, not imbricated, and smooth. Head scaled, 

 with exception of jaws, snout, and under surface. Bones of snout and 

 front of head above more or less cavernous. Several pores present". 

 Axil of pectoral without flap, ^'entrals close together, without median 

 scaly flap. 



Origin of spinous dorsal a httle nearer tip of snout than base of 

 caudal. Dorsal spines pungent, slender, rather weak, and first and 

 second longest. Origin of soft dorsal nearly midway between that of 

 spinous dorsal and tip of last depressed anal ray. Anterior rays high- 

 est. Anal long, beginning just above base of last dorsal spine, or a 

 little nearer base of caudal than tip of snout. Length of its base a 

 little less than ^ of body without caudal. Anterior rays highest. 

 Caudal broad, emarginate. Pectoral large, elongate, reaching well 

 beyond root of ventral, but not to origin of dorsal. Ventral shorter, 

 reaching to anus or not quite to origin of anal. Anus directly in front 

 of anal fin or at tip of depressed ventral. 



Color in alcohol pale, more or less uniform brown. Side of body with 

 a well-defined narrow silvery-white longitudinal band about width of 

 pupil, and extending to base of caudal. Fins uniform pak; brown. 

 Peritonevmi bright silvery. 



Length (caudal damaged) 3? inches. 



Type No. 10,177, A. N. S. P. India. R. Coates. 



One example, the type. 



(Named for Dr. Francis Day, among late Ichthyologists a most able 

 author of many papers on Indian fishes.) 




734 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



BASILICHTHYS Girard. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 185-4, p. 198 (microlepidotus) . 

 Basilichthys regia (Humboldt and Valenciennes). 



Atherina regia Humboldt and Valenciennes,' in Humboldt and Bonpland, 

 Rec. Obs. Zool. Anat. Comp., II, 1833, p. 187. Surtout dans rOcean- 

 Pacifique, pres du CaUao de Lima. 



Atherina laticlavia Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., X, 1835, p. 351. Val- 

 paraiso. (M. d'Orbigny.) La lagune de Taguatagua du Chili. (M. 



Gay.) Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XVII, 1878, p. 44. CaUao Bay. 



Peru. (Prof. James Orton.) 



Atherinichthys laticlaiia Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., Ill, 1861, p. 402. 

 Salt water, Valparaiso. (Mr. Bridges.) Falkland Islands, Port Louis. 

 (Haslar Collection.) 



Chirostoma laticlavia Steindachner. Zool. Jahrb., Suppl. IV (Fauna Chi- 

 lensis), 1898, p. 313. Tumbes (Talcahuano). 



Head 4|; depth 44; D. VIII-I, 50; A. I, 18; P. I, 14; V. I, 5; scales 

 92 in lateral series to base of caudal; 50 before spinous dorsal; 16 in 

 transverse series between root of ventral and middle of back before 

 spinous dorsal; width of head 2\ in its length; depth of head li; snout 

 3; eye 5^; tip of upper jaw to corner of mouth 5; to end of maxillary 

 3; interorbital space 3f ; length of depressed spinous dorsal 3; first 

 dorsal ray 2\ ; base of soft dorsal 2\ ; second anal ray 2| ; base of anal 

 If; pectoral If; ventral 2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 3J; length 

 of caudal peduncle, from base of last dorsal ray li. 



Head large, elongate, compressed, greatest depth about tip of pec- 

 toral. Sides compressed, somewhat flattened, or only slightly convex. 

 Caudal peduncle elongate, compressed, its least depth near base of 

 caudal. 



Head elongate, conic, compressed, rather broad posteriorly so that 

 greatest width is about midway in postocular region, also widest part 

 of body. Side of head more or less flattened, though broadly con- 

 stricted below. Snout rather long, flattened above, and with jaws 

 produced some distance beyond. Eye small, high, not impinging on 

 upper profile, and posterior rim a little posterior in head. Adipose 

 eyelid slightly developed. Mouth rather small, horizontal, and jaws 

 equal. Maxillary expanded distally till f of pupil, upper portion more 

 or less concealed below preorbital, and not reaching opposite front rim 

 of orbit. Teeth conic, rather large, and in two rather irregular series 

 in jaws. No teeth on vomer or palatines. Tongue small, narrow, 

 pointed, rather thick, and free in front. Mandible moderately large, 

 with each ramus well elevated inside of mouth. Lips thin. Anterior 



^ Credited to Humboldt on the authority of Valenciennes. The paper in which 

 this species is described is by these authors jointly, but later Valenciennes credits 

 to Humboldt. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 735 



nostril circular, about last third of space between tip of upper jaw 

 and front rim of orbit. Posterior nostril slit-like and a little before 

 front rim of orbit above. Interorbital space broad, slightly convex. 

 Top of head posterior to interorbital space evenly convex. 



Gill-opening large, extending forward nearly opposite front rim of 

 pupil. Rakers long, slender, compressed, 8 + 25 on first arch, longest 

 about f of longest filaments. No pseudobranchiae. Isthmus long, 

 narrow, trenchant and branchiostegal membranes not united across. 



Scales small, thin, cycloid, and rather narrowly imbricated. No 

 lateral line. Head, with exception of snout, jaws and space in front 

 of eyes, scaled. About five series of scales on cheek. Base of caudal 

 covered with small scales, none on other fins. Between bases of ven- 

 trals several small scales, and each fin with a small axillary scale. No 

 pectoral flap. 



Spinous dorsal a little posterior, its origin a little nearer base of 

 caudal than tip of upper jaw, weak, depressable in a groove, and reach- 

 ing f of distance to soft dorsal. Soft dorsal with anterior rays ele- 

 vated and inserted about midway between base of caudal and origin 

 of ventral or over middle of base of anal. Anal inserted posterior to 

 tip of depressed spinous dorsal, and anterior rays longest. Caudal 

 moderately large, forked, and lobes rounded. Pectoral small, high, 

 and reaching about f of distance to origin of ventral. Ventral small, 

 inserted nearer origin of anal than origin of pectoral, and reaching 

 hardly half-w^ay to anus. Anus as far from tip of ventral as length of 

 that fin or just before origin of anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brown below, darker above, and each series 

 of scales longitudinally with a narrow dark band. A broad brassy 

 band, as wide as pupil, more or less olivaceous along its upper margin, 

 extending from pectoral to base of caudal. A pale median olivaceous 

 streak from occiput to first dorsal, and continued posteriorly to base 

 of caudal. Lower surface of head brassy. Fins more or less uniform 

 pale browTi. Peritoneum black. 



Length 8^ inches. 



One example, identified as Atherina latidavia by Cope. Callao Bay. 

 Peru. Prof. James Orton. Presented by Prof. E. D. Cope. Dr. 

 Smitt has recently figured an example identified as Atherinichthys regia 

 var. latidavia.^ However, it shows about 70 scales in a lateral count 

 to base of caudal. Basilichthys microlepidotus is also united with 

 regia. 



■' Bih. Kon. Sven. Vet.-Ak. Hand. Stockholm, XXIV, iv., 1899, p. 31, PI. 4, fig. 30. 




736 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



THYRINA Jordan and Culver. 

 Contr. Hopkins Lab. Biol., I, 1895, p. 419 (evermanni) . 

 Thyrina guatemalensis (Giinther). Plate XLIII (lower figure). 



Atherinichthys guatemalensis Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1864, p. 151. 



Lakes of Huamuchal. (Mr. Salvin.) Giinther, Trans. Zool. Soc. 



Lond., 1868, p. 443. [Same examples.] 

 Chirostoma guatemalensis Gill and Bransford, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 



1877, p. 187. Lake Nicaragua. [No description.] 

 Menidia guatemalensis Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus. (Fish 



N. Mid. Amer.) No. 47, I, 1896, p. 801. [Copied.] 

 Thyrina guatemalensis Jordan and Evermann, Rep. U. S. Fish Com., 1896, 



p. 332. [Reference.] 



Head 4i; depth 4i; D. IV-I, 9; A. I, 22; P. i. I, 12; V. I, 5; scales 

 40 to base of caudal; 27 before spinous dorsal; 8 in transverse series 

 between origin of anal and spinous dorsal; width of head It in its 

 length; depth of head 1|; snout 3f ; eye 2f ; maxillary 3; mandible 

 3; interorbital space 2>\; length of spinous dorsal 3; first dorsal ray 

 2; first anal ray \^; pectoral 1; ventral 2; least depth of caudal pe- 

 duncle 2f ; length of base of anal a little less than ^ of length of body. 



Body elongate, strongly compressed, greatest depth at origin of 

 anal, and lower profile forming obtuse angle at this point. Upper 

 profile evenly convex. Abdomen strongly compressed, and edge not 

 sharp or trenchant, but rather narrowly convex. Greatest width of 

 trunk a Httle less than that of head, and found at bases of pectorals. 



Head elongate, conic, rather obtuse in front, sides compressed and 

 constricted below. Snout broad, and flattened above. Eye large, 

 anterior, and close to upper profile. Mouth small, oblique, and su- 

 periorly terminal. Jaws nearly equal when closed, and premaxillaries 

 protractile. Maxillar}^ slender, and reaching posteriorly below front 

 edge of eye. Teeth rather large, conic, sharp-pointed, and biserial 

 in jaws. No teeth on vomer and palatines. Tongue small, rather 

 narrow, and free in front. Each ramus of mandible elevated inside 

 of mouth. Lips thin. Anterior nostrils lateral, about midway be- 

 tween tip of snout and orbit, posterior above front rim of orbit. Inter- 

 orbital space flat. Top of head posterior to eyes, convex. Top of 

 snout somewhat cavernous. 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite first f of eye. Rakers 

 long, slender, and numerous. Filaments numerous, and long. No 

 pseudobranchise. Isthmus narrow, constricted and trenchant. 



Scales large, rather thin, cycloid, with uneven margins, andjsome- 

 what imbricated on side of trunk. Scales of head extending on inter- 

 orbital space where they become enlarged. Single row of large scales 

 on cheek. Scales on sides of head above, large. Snout and jaws naked. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 737 



No pectoral flap. Ventrals with rather broad scales between bases, 

 and each with short basal scaly flap. 



Origin of spinous dorsal well behind that of anal, or much nearer 

 tip of snout than tip of caudal, small, spines weak, and when depressed 

 reaching nearly f of distance to soft dorsal. Soft dorsal inserted a 

 little nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral, first ray undivided 

 and longest. Anal inserted a little nearer base of caudal than tip of 

 snout, base long, and base of last ray distant from base of caudal more 

 than half of length of base of fin itself. Extending posteriorly beyond 

 base of last dorsal ray, anterior rays elongate and first longest. Caudal 

 rather long, emarginate, and both lobes apparently sharp-pointed. 

 Pectoral long, falcate, sharp-pointed, and falling a little short of tip 

 of ventral. "S^entral small, united posteriorly, and reaching almost to 

 origin of anal. Anus placed a little before tips of ventrals. 



Color in alcohol pale straw-brown. A few of scales along dorsal 

 surface sprinkled with brown dots. Lower surface more or less pale sil- 

 very. A broad silvery-lead-colored band as wide as pupil extending 

 from axil of pectoral to base of caudal. Upper edge of band more or 

 less dark. Dorsal and caudal grayish-brown. Peritoneum brownish. 



Length 2y\ inches. 



One example. Nicaragua. Dr. J. F. Bransford. Probably one 

 of the examples recorded by Drs. Gill d,nd Bransford. 



Subfamily Atherinopsiinse. 



Premaxillaries not freely protractile, the skin continuous mesially 



with forehead. 



PKOTISTIUS Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1874, p. 66 (semotilus). 



Teeth simple, pointed, in bands in jaws, and also present on vomer. 

 A single small dorsal spine. 



This genus was first provisionally referred to the Mugilidce by Cope,, 

 which was certainly in better propinquity than his final attempt to- 

 merge it in the " Cyprinodontidce." 



Protistius semotilus Cope. Plate XLIV. 



L.c. Some portion of the Peruvian Andes, from an elevation of twelve 

 thousand feet. 



Head 4; depth about 5; D. I-I, 10; A. I, 13; P. i, I, 15; V. I, 5; 

 about 75 scales to base of caudal in lateral series; width of head IJ in 

 its length; snout 3; eye about 5; maxillary about 2|; interorbital 

 space 2§; pectoral If; ventral 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f. 

 Snout projecting a little beyond mandible. Teeth rather elongate, 

 47 




738 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^OV.^ 



pointed, and a small patch present on vomer. Tongue small, and not 

 free from floor of mouth. Nostrils well separated. Gill-opening 

 extending forw^ard nearly opposite front rim of orbit. Rakers slender, 

 rather numerous, and shorter than filaments. Isthmus trenchant, 

 narrow. Middle of base of pectoral about opposite lower rim of orbit. 

 Anal beginning a little in front of second dorsal. Anus close in front 

 of anal. Peritoneum blackish. 



Length 5h inches. 



Type of Protistius semotilus Cope, No. 14,404, A. N. S. P. Peruvian 

 Andes, from an elevation of twelve thousand feet. 



GASTEEOPTERUS Cope. 



Proo. Amer. Philos. Soc, XVII, 1S7S, p. 700 (archceus). 



Pisciregia J. F. Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 342 (beardsleei) . 



Differs from Protistius chiefly in the presence of more than one dorsal 

 spine. 



OriginaUy confounded with the Mugilidce by Prof. Cope, this genus 

 has recently been redcscribcd by ]\Ir. J. F. Abbott under the name of 

 Pisciregia. 



Gasteropterus archaeus Cope. Plate XLIII (upper figure). 



L.c. At Areqiiipa, on the Pacific slope, at an elevation of 7,500 feet 

 [Peru.] (Coll. Prof. James Orton.) 



Head 4; depth about 6; D. IV-I, 11; A. I, 15; P. i, I, 16; V. I, 5; 

 scales about 86 in lateral series to base of caudal; width of head 2 

 in its length; snout Si; eye about 5; maxillary about 2|; interorbital 

 space 2|-; pectoral 1\: ventral a little over 2; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2|-. Snout protruding a little beyond mandible. Tongue 

 small, rather narrow, and a little free in front. Nostrils well separated. 

 Gill-opening extending forward nearly opposite front rim of pupil. 

 Rakers shorter than filaments, slender, and rather numerous. Pseudo- 

 branchise rather small. Isthmus narrow and compressed. Several 

 irregular lateral series of porous or tubular scales, and though lower is 

 broken in places it is more complete than others. Pectoral extends 

 a little more than | of distance to base of ventral. Anus about mid- 

 way between tip of ventral and origin of anal. Peritoneum deep brown. 



Length 6^ inches. 



Type of Gasteropterus arclmus Cope, No. 22,002, A. N. S. P. Are- 

 quipa on the Pacific slope at an elevation of 7,500 feet. Peru. Prof. 

 James Orton, collection of 1874. Prof. E. D. Cope. Also^a co-type 

 with same data. 



Pisciregia beardsleei J. F. Abbott is closely related, if distinct, and 

 while included in Mr. Abbott's paper on "The Marine Fishes of Peru " 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 739 



as evidently having been obtained at Callao, could it not have been 

 brought there from the neighboring mountains? There is little to dis- 

 tinguish it in the original account from G. archceus, still it may be a 

 salt-water representative. 



ATHERINOPSIS Girard. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 134 {calif omiensis) . 

 Atherinopsis californiensis Girard. 



L.c, San Francisco, Cal. (Dr. A. L. Heermann.) 



Atherinichthys californiensis Giinther, Cat. Fish Brit. Mus., Ill, 1861, 



p. 406. [Copied.] 

 Chirostoma californiense Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Ill, 1880, 



p. 29. San Diego, California. 

 Atherina storeri Ayres, in Girard, I.e., 1856, p. 136. 



Head ^^, depth 5i; D. IX-I, 12; A. I, 22; P. I, 16; V. I, 5; scales 

 about 73 in lateral series to base of caudal (squamation injured); 

 51 before spinous dorsal; about 15 in oblique transverse series between 

 origins of soft dorsal and anal; width of head 2\ in its length; depth 

 of head If; snout 2>\; eye 4|; tip of upper jaw to corner of mouth 5; 

 to end of maxillary 3f ; interorbital space 3f ; length of depressed dor- 

 sal 2-|; base of soft dorsal 2; base of anal 1; pectoral ly^^; ventral 2^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; length of caudal peduncle from 

 base of last dorsal ray If. 



Body elongate, well compressed, fusiform, and greatest depth a 

 little before origin of ventral. Sides slightly convex. Caudal pedun- 

 cle elongate, strongly compressed, and least depth close to base of 

 caudal. Head elongate, pointed, compressed, greatest width in middle 

 of postocular region, and also equal to greatest width of trunk at bases 

 of pectorals. Side of head more or less flattened, becoming conspicu- 

 ously constricted below eyes. Snout broad, jaws produced, so that 

 upper is bluntly pointed when viewed from above. Eye high, not 

 impinging on upper profile, and posterior rim a little posterior to middle 

 of head. Eyehd somewhat thick and adipose-like. Mouth high, 

 nearly horizontal and upper jaw slightly longer than lower. Pos- 

 teriorly gape of mouth turns obliquely down. Premaxillaries not 

 protractile or with a distinct frenum above separating them from 

 snout. Maxillary narrow, its distal expanded portion about half of 

 pupil, oblique, upper portion more or less concealed below preorbital, 

 and falling well short of front orbital rim. Articulation of mandible 

 with quadrate nearly opposite front rim of orbit, and expanded some- 

 what in front till equal to orbit. Each ramus of mandible high and 

 well elevated inside of mouth. Teeth in jaws small, pointed, and bi- 




740 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV,, 



serial. No vomerine or palatine teeth. Tongue small, elongate, and 

 free in front. Anterior nostril circular, nearly midway between 

 tip of upper jaw and front of eye. Posterior nostril well separated, 

 slit-like, in advance of front of orbit. Interorbital space broad, and 

 slightly conic. Top of head posterior to eyes conic. 



Gill-opening large, extending forward till nearly opposite front rim 

 of orbit. Rakers long, slender, compressed, 7 + 37 on first arch, 

 and longest about f of longest filaments. Filaments numerous and 

 long. PseudobranchisB absent. Isthmus long narrow and branchi- 

 ostegal membranes not miited. 



Scales small, cycloid, somewhat imbricated, and with uneven edges. 

 About six rows on cheek, and first three small and close to eye. With 

 exception of snout, jaws and space in front of eye, head scaled. No 

 scaly flaps except small one between bases of ventrals. 



Spinous dorsal in groove, w^eak, and inserted a little nearer tip of 

 snout than tip of caudal. Soft dorsal small, inserted a little nearer base 

 of caudal than origin of ventral, or nearly over middle of base of anal. 

 Like anal rays, anterior highest. Anal begins about opposite tip of 

 depressed dorsal or a little nearer base of caudal than origin of pectoral. 

 Caudal forked, lobes pointed. Pectoral high, broad at base, and fal- 

 cate tips not reaching base of ventral. Ventral small, pointed, and 

 not reaching opposite origin of spinous dorsal. Anus remote from 

 ventrals, near front of anal. 



Color in alcohol dull brown, paler beneath, and all more or less 

 brassy. An indistinct longitudinal band about as wide as eye from 

 base of pectoral to base of caudal. Fins plain miiform brown. Peri- 

 toneum black. 



Length 7h inches. 



Type of Atherinopsis calijorniensis Girard, No. 10,208, A. N. S. P. 

 San Francisco, California. Dr. A. L. Heermann. 

 &.3 Two co-types with same data, also other material from Monterey 

 Bay and San Diego, has been compared. 



Atherinops magdalenae sp. nov. Plate XLII (lower figure). 



Head 4i; depth 5; D. V-I, 10; A. I. 22; P. I, 14; V. I, 5; scales 47 

 in a lat^'al series to base of caudal; 10 scales obliquely back from 

 spinous dorsal to base of anal in front ; width of head 2\ in its length ; 

 depth of head If; snout 3^; eye 4; maxillary 3|; interorbital space 

 3^; pectoral a little shorter than head ; ventral 2 ; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 2\. 



Body well compressed, lower profile more convex than upper, and 




1903.] ["natural sciences of Philadelphia. 741 



greatest depth about midway in its length. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, its least depth a little less than half its length. 



Head rather small, compressed, more or less constricted below, 

 upper profile nearly straight, and lower well curved convexly. Snout 

 long. Eye moderate, high, circular and anterior. Mouth horizontal, 

 jaws]subequal or lower only slightly projecting. Upper jaw broad and 

 depressed. Teeth uniscrial, bicuspid, and rather small in jaws. No 

 teeth on vomer. Tongue small, far down and little free in mouth. 

 Each ramus of mandible well elevated inside of mouth. Maxillary 

 slender, vertically inclined, and falling little short of front rim of 

 orbit. Nostrils well separated. Interorbital space rather broad and 

 slightly convex. 



Gill-opening extending forward about opposite front rim of pupil. 

 Rakers slender, rather numerous, and shorter than filaments. No 

 pseudobranchise. Isthmus narrow, trenchant. 



Scales of moderate size, cycloid, and hardly imbricated, those on 

 chest smaller and crowded. Head scaly, about three rows on cheek. 

 Bases of soft dorsal and anal with scaly sheaths. Base of caudal with 

 small scales. Several irregular or broken series of tubes on side of 

 body representing lateral system, lowest most perfect. 



Spinous dorsal inserted a little behind anus, small, much lower than 

 soft dorsal and second spine apparently largest. Soft dorsal low, 

 anterior rays highest, and inserted a little before middle of base of 

 anal. Anal large, similar in shape to soft dorsal and beginning close 

 behind anas. Caudal damaged, evidently emarginate. Pectoral 

 rather long, reaching past base of ventral, and first rays longest. Ven- 

 tral rather small. Anus nearly midway between tip of depressed ven- 

 tral and origin of anal, at least distinctly before origin of spinous dorsal. 



Color in alcohol dull brown, back a little darker. A broad silvery 

 lateral band equal to f eye-diameter, and upper half grayish. Sides 

 of head with silvery reflections. Fins plain brownish. Orbit brassy. 

 Peritoneum silvery-gray. 



Length (caudal damaged) 3^ inches. 



Type No. 10,206, A. N. S. P. Magdalena Bay, Lower California. 

 W. N. Lockington. Two examples, inclusive of type. 



This species appears to be a southern representative of Atherinops 

 afjinis (Ayres), differing in the anterior position of the vent. 



(Named for Magdalena Bay, Lower California.) 




742 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. 



Explanation of Plates XLI-XLIV. 



Plate XLI. — Atherina sardinella Fowler. 



Type No. 15,397, A. N. S. P. Italy. 

 Phoxargyrea dayi Fowler. 



Type No. 10,177, A. N. S. P. India. 



Plate XLII. — Ischnomembras gabunensis Fowler. , 

 Type No. 14,934, A. N. S. P. West Africa. 

 Atherinops magdalenoe Fowler. 



Type No. 10,206, A. N. S. P. Lower California. 



Plate XLIII. — Gasteropterus archceus Cope. 

 Type No. 22,002, A. N. S. P. Peru. 

 Thyrina guatemalensis (Giinther). 



No. 15,983, A. N. S. P. Nicaragua. 



Plate XLIV. — Protistius semotilus Cope. 



Type No. 14,404, A. N. S. P. Peru. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHLA.. 743 



NEW AND LITTLE KNOWN MUGILID^ AND SPHYR^NIDiE. 

 BY HENRY AV. FOWLER. 



All of the material on which the present paper is basedls in the 

 Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



MUGILID^. 



Mugil brasiliensis Spix. 



Sel. Gen. Spec. Pise. Brasil, 1S29, p. 72. Oceano Atlantico. (Museo 

 Monacensi.) 



Head 4; depth 4^; D. IV-I, 8; A. Ill, S; scales 33 in lateral series 

 to base of caudal; snout 4 in head; eye 4^; interorbital space 2i. 

 Mandibular angle obtuse. Ciliiform teeth in both jaws. Scales large, 

 those on caudal peduncle and below soft dorsal but little smaller than 

 others on middle of side. Soft dorsal and anal with small scales on 

 basal portions of membranes of anterior rays. Soft dorsal inserted a 

 little l^ehind origin of anal. Pectoral falling short of origin of spinous 

 dorsal by about ^ its own length. Length 8f inches. Rio Janeiro, 

 Brazil. Dr. Turner. Other examples from Surinam and St. Martin's, 

 W, I., have been compared and found to agree. 



Mugil cephalus Linnaeus. 



Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 316. Oceano Europfeo. 

 Examples from Florida, Ft. Macon (X. C), South Carolina, Wood's 

 Hole (Massachusetts), ? Montevideo (Uruguay), Peru and Beirut 

 (Syria), agree. The only differences are due apparently to age or 

 individual variation. 



Mugil kelaartii Giinther. 



Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., Ill, 1S61, p. 429. Point de GaUe. (Sir A. Smith.) 



Philippine Islands. Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 500. 



Sandwich Islands. (Dr. Wm. H. Jones.) 



Head 3i (3|) ; depth 3j\ (3f); D. l\'-l, 8; A. Ill, 9; scales 31 in 

 a lateral series to base of caudal; snout 4 in head; eye 4; interorbital 

 space 2\; pectoral lyV. Only a small portion of base of soft anal, 

 about ^ in advance of that of soft dorsal. In smaller example about 

 ^ of soft anal in advance of soft dorsal. ]\Iandibulary angle a little 

 obtuse. Spinous dorsal inserted a little nearer base of caudal than tip of 

 snout. Scales large, those on snout not extending to its margin and 

 Httlc reduced in size. Soft dorsal and anal covered with small scales 



^ Spines not VI as given in notes. 




744 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov. 



on their basal portions, mostly on membranes between rays. Length 

 7-j-g- inches. Two examjjles. 



Hawaiian Islands. Dr. William H. Jones. 



They both appear identical with M. kelaartii, agreeing largely with 

 Dr. Giinther's account and fii>nre.^ 



'/^y/y^/y^S^'^^ ^^^^^ 



Querimana stage.s of (l) Mugil cephalus, and (2) Mugil curema. 

 Mugil curema Valenciennes. 



Hist. Nat. Poiss., XI, 1S36, p. 64. BresQ. Martinique. (M. Plee.) Cuba. 

 01. Choris.) Bahia. 



Examples are before me from Wood's Hole (Massachusetts), Beach 

 Haven and Beasley's Point (New Jersey), Ft. Macon (N. C), mouth 

 of St. Lucie river (Florida) and San Domingo, West Indies. Latter 

 from Prof. W. 'M. Gabb, containing an example in the Querimana 

 stage. 



Mugil incilis Hancock. Plate XLV (lower figure). 



Quart. Jour. Sci. Lit. Art. London, 1830, p. 127. In the trenches or ditches 

 dug for draining the flat lands of the coast of Guiana. (Museum of the 

 Zoological Society [of London].) 



Head 3|; depth 4; D. IV-I, 8; A. Ill, 9; P. ii, 14; V. I, 5; scales 



^ Joum. Mus. Godef., XI, vi, 1877, p. 215. Otaheiti. (Museum von Raiatea.) 

 — L.c, XV, vii, 1878, PL 121. fig. a. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 745 



42 in a lateral series to base of caudal; about 15 scales in an oblique 

 series from origin of spinous dorsal to middle of belly ; 24 scales before 

 spinous dorsal; width of head If in its length; depth of head 1^; 

 snout 4; eye 3^; maxillary 3J; interorbital space 2-V; second dorsal 

 spine If; first dorsal ray 2; third anal spine 2f ; upper caudal lobe 1^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; pectoral If; ventral H. 



Body fusiform, compressed, greatest depth about middle of length 

 and profiles more or less evenly convex. Caudal peduncle compressed, 

 and its least depth about If in its length. 



Head robust, a little constricted below, and profiles evenly con- 

 vex. Snout broad, a little convex above, and upper jaw hardly 

 produced. Eye anterior with well developed adipose eyelids. IMouth 

 a little inferior, corner not quite reaching opposite anterior rim of 

 orbit. Mandibular angle a right one, and symphysis form a process 

 that fits in a depression of upper jaw. Teeth rather large, uniserial, 

 ciliiform, and present in both jaws. Tongue fleshy, not free. Max- 

 illary exposed, and reaching opposite front rim of orbit. Lower edge 

 of preorbital denticulate. Anterior nostril with a small cutaneous 

 rim, near edge of snout, and space between it and posterior much 

 greater than space between latter and front of eye. Posterior nostril 

 rather large. Interorbital space broad and slightly convex. 



Gill-opening extending forward till about opposite middle of orbit. 

 Rakers about 50?, slender, fine, equal to about | length of longest fila- 

 ments, which arc numerous and also equal to about f of orbital diam- 

 eter. Pseudobranchise about half of orbital diameter. Isthmus 

 narrow, with a groove. 



Stomach gizzard-like, muscular, and about size of eye. Intestine 

 long, with many convolutions. Peritoneum blackish. Anus close 

 in front of anal fin. 



Scales a little small, and in more or less even longitudinal series. 

 Head scaly. Scales extending down along edge of snout small. A 

 slender pointed scaly flap along base of spinous dorsal about equal 

 in length to f length of first spine. Scaly flap at axil of pectoral a 

 little less than half length that of fin. Ventral with a similar scaly flap, 

 and a median one between bases of each of these fins about f their 

 length. Greater portions of soft dorsal, anal, and caudal covered with 

 minute scales, those at their bases larger. 



Spinous dorsal inserted a little nearer tip of snout than base of caudal, 

 second spine longest, and fourth shortest. Soft dorsal inserted nearer 

 origin of spinous than base of caudal, and first ray longest, margin of 

 fin a little concave. Anal similar to soft dorsal, spines slender, grad- 




746 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.. 



uated to tliircl which is longest, firet much shortest, and origin of fin 

 nearly opposite tip of depressed spinous dorsal. Caudal forked, lobes 

 pointed and angular, when expanded emarginate. Pectoral small, 

 reaching origin of spinous dorsal and its origin level with upper margin 

 of orbit. A'entral inserted a little before middle of pectoral, its spine 

 about f length of fin. 



Color in alcohol brownish, back and upper surface deep dull 

 ohvaceous-brown . A dusky blotch at base of pectoral. No dark 

 streaks present along series of scales. Fins pale, dorsals and caudal 

 a trifle darker. 



Length 4f inches. 



One example. Paramaribo, Surinam. Dr. Hering. Also fourteen 

 others vnth same data. 



Mugil giintheri Steindachner is said to have 46 or 47 scales in a lateral 

 series to the base of the caudal. I am unable to count more than 44 

 scales in any of the above examples. 



LIZA Jordan and Swain. 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VII, 1884, p. 261 {cajfrito = ramada). 



Subgenus LIZA Jordan and Swain.^ 

 Type Mugil ramada Risso. 

 Upper lip thin, not enlarged. 



Liza cascasia (Hamilton). 



Mugil cascasia Hamilton, Ace. Fish. Ganges, 1822, pp. 217, 380. Nortliern 

 rivers of Bengal. 



One example from the Ganges river, India. 



Liza alosoides sp. nov. Plate XLV (upper figure). 



Head 3i; depth ?>\; D. IV-I, 8; A. Ill, 9; P. ii, 15; V. I, 5; scales 

 38 in a lateral series to base of caudal (squamation injured) ; about 13? 

 scales in an oblique transverse series back from origin of spinous dorsal; 

 18 scales before spinous dorsal; width of head 1| in its length; depth 

 of head 1^; snout 4^; eye 3?; maxillary 3|^; interorbital space 2|: 

 first dorsal spine 2; first branched dorsal ray 1^^; third anal spine 

 2\; first anal ray If; pectoral 1^; ventral If; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2\. 



Body rather deep, well compressed, greatest depth about median, 

 and profiles evenly and similarly convex. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, its least depth about equal to its length. 



^ Other species examined are Liza ramada (Risso), Liza aurita (Risso), and 

 Liza saliens (Risso). 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 747 



Head deep, well compressed, and becoming more or less constricted 

 below. Snout rather broad, and convex, upper jaw projecting a little. 

 Eye anterior, without adipose lids. ^Maxillary reaching front margin 

 of orbit, and partially exposed. Mandible, with rami forming a right 

 angle, exposed median strip on chin rather broad. Teeth ciliiform, 

 uniserial, and rather long in jaw. Symphysis with usual process. 

 Tongue not free, fleshy. Preorbital finely serrate. Nostrils well 

 separated, posterior closer to upper front rim of orbit than to anterior. 

 Interorbital space broad, and a little convex. 



Gill-opening extending forward till opposite middle of eye. Gill- 

 rakers numerous, fine, slender, shorter than filaments which are about 

 I of eye. Pseudobranchise about half of orbital diameter. 



Stomach gizzard-like, muscular. Intestine long, with manj' convo- 

 lutions. Peritoneum dark brown. 



Scales moderately large. A long, pointed, scaly flap at base of 

 spinous dorsal and another between bases of ventrals. Soft dorsal and 

 anal covered with small scales over their greater portions. Base of 

 caudal scaly. 



Spinous dorsal inserted nearer base of caudal than tip of snout, and 

 second spine a trifle longest. Soft dorsal inserted nearly midway be- 

 tween origin of spinous dorsal and base of caudal. A little less than 

 half of base of anal inserted before origin of soft dorsal, third spine 

 longest, second but little shorter, and first short. Caudal emarginate, 

 lobes pointed and producing a forked appearance when fin is not ex- 

 panded. Pectoral inserted a little above upper rim of orbit, and fall- 

 ing about opposite origin of spinous dorsal. Ventral inserted about 

 opposite middle of pectoral, and spine nearly f length of fin. 



Color in alcohol pale brown, back slightly darker, and tinged with 

 dull olivaceous. No traces of streaks on side. Base of pectoral 

 scarcely darker than rest of fin. Fins all plain pale brownish. 



Length 3 inches. 



Type No. 9,771. Gabun country. West Africa. P. B. DuChaillu. 



Six co-types, also with same data. They seem probably related to 

 Liza schlegeli (Bleeker),* but that species is said to have but 30 scales 

 in a lateral series. 



{Alosa, old name of the European shad; sldo^, resemblance.) 



Liza caldwelli (Fowler). 



Mugil caldwelli Fowler. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 524, PI. 19, 

 fig. 4. Samoa. (Dr. H. C. Caldwell.) 



Head 3*; depth 3^; D. IV-5; A. Ill, 9; P. ii, 14. Eyelid narrow, 



* Nat. Verh. Holt. Maats. Wet. Haarlem, XVIII, 1863, p. 92, PI. 19, fig. 1. 

 Guinea (Ashantee). 




748 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XoV., 



though adipose-hke, but not infringmg on iris. Jaws edentulous. 

 Corner of mouth reaching opposite anterior nostril, not "a trifle 

 posterior to the posterior nostrils/' but extremity of maxillarj' 

 extending a trifle beyond posterior nostril. Strip on chin between 

 rami of mandible narrow. Stomach gizzard-like and n\iiscular. In- 

 testine long, with many convolutions. Peritoneum blackish. 



One example. Type of Mvgil caldwelli Fowler, No. 9,841, A. X. S. P. 

 Samoa. Dr. H. C. Caldwell. 



OEDALECHILUS subgen. nov.^ 



Type Mugil labeo Cu^^er. 

 Upper lip thick. 

 (Oida/Jiii;, swollen; x^lh)-, lip.) 



Agonostomus monticola (Griffith). 



Mugil monticola Bancroft, in Griffith, Anim. Kingd. Cuv., X, 1S34. Ja- 

 maica. (Dr. Bancroft.) 



Head 3f ; depth 3|; D. IV-I, 8; A. Ill, 9; scales 41 in lateral series 

 to base of caudal; width of head 1^ in its length; snout 3^; eye 5; 

 maxillary 2h ; interorbital space 3 ; first dorsal spine 2^ ; pectoral If ; 

 ventral If; least depth of caudal peduncle 24. IMaxillary reaching 

 middle of eye. Soft dorsal and anal marked by a longitudinal or trans- 

 verse dusky bar. Length 9 inches. Eighteen examples from San 

 Domingo, West Indies. Prof. W. M. Gabb. Young examples show 

 a slightly convex interorbital space, and maxillary reaches a little past 

 front of eye. 



In the original accoimt of Agonostoma percoides 1 am unal^le to con- 

 strue the accoimt of the interorbital space.® The construction of the 

 sentence does not seem to leave it clear that the interorbital space is 

 ^ the length of head. Besides agreeing in most respects with my San 

 Domingo material, all of the examples mentioned are either half-grown 

 or adults. It is possible, therefore, that percoides may be identical 

 with monticola. The length of the adult example examined by Dr. 

 Giinther is not stated. 



Joturus pichardi Poey. 



Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, II, XLIX, 18.56-58, p. 263, PI. 18, figs. 4-5. Ce 

 poisson se trouve dans toute I'tle, dans les rivi&res quiont des cascades. 

 [Cuba.] 



Head 4^; depth 3|; D. IV-I, 9; A. Ill, 10; scales 44 to base of 

 caudal in lateral series ; width of head If in its length ; snout 2| ; eye 



* Species examined are Liza jyrorensalis (Risso), and Liza labeo (Cuvier). 

 e Cat. Fish. Brit. Mas., Ill, 1861, p. 465. 




19U3.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 749 



6-j; interorbital space 2}; first dorsal spine If; first developed anal 

 ray 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral 1^; ventral 1|. 

 Length 11 inches. One from eastern San Domingo, West Indies. 

 Prof. W. :\r. Gabb. 



SPHYRJENID^. 



AGRIOPOSPHYR-^NA subgen. nov. 

 Type Esox barracuda Walbaum. 



Scales 90 or less. Top of head broad, flat and interorbital space 

 slightly concave. Lower margin of orbit midway or above middle of 

 depth of head. Body rather robust. 



CA'yfj'.cD-d^, wild; Icnpawzj Sph}Tsena.) 



Sphyraena snodgrassi Jenkins. 



Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1899 (1901), p. 388, fig. 2. Honolulu. (Dis. O. P. 



Jenkins and T. D. Wood.) 

 Sphyroena commersoni Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 501. 



Sandwich Islands. (Dr. William H. Jones). L.c, p. 520. Tahiti. (Dr. 



J. K. Townsend.) (Not of Cu^^e^.) 



Head 3; depth 5f ; D. V-I, 9; A. II, 8; scales 80 in lateral fine to 

 base of caudal, 8 more on latter; snout 2\ in head, from its 

 tip; eye 6; maxillary 2\; interorbital space 4J; pectoral 2f ; ventral 

 3; least depth of caudal peduncle 4. Eye a little longer than deep, 

 and its lower margin about midway in depth of head. Distal extremity 

 of maxillary not quite reaching front rim of orbit. Jaws forming 

 rather robust or broad angle, lower not greatly produced. Edge of 

 isthmus rounded. Interorbital space slightly concave. Dorsals and 

 anal brown on greater portions distally, soft dorsal dark. Length ^h 

 inches. Hawaiian Islands. 



Head 2^; depth about 6f. End of maxillaiy a little short of 

 front rim of orbit. Dark brown of vertical fins apparently faded. 

 Tahiti. 



Close to S>. barracuda of the West Indies, apparently differing in the 

 shorter maxillary, though I have not had the opportunity to compare 

 examples of intermediate size. 



Sphyraena barracuda (Walbaum). 



Esox barracuda Walbaum, Pet. .Art. Gen. Pise, III, 1792, p. 94. (Based 

 on Barracuda Catesby, Nat. Hist. Flor. Bah., II, 1771, p. 1, Pi. 1. In 

 all the shallow seas of the Baliama Islands.) 



Two examples from San Domingo, West Indies. Prof. W. M. Gabb. 

 A Porto Rican example, in alcohol, shows ten large brown blotches on 

 side and vertical fins with dusky. 




750 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XoV., 



Subgenus SPHYR^NA Schneider. 



Scales small, 100 or more. Top of head rather narrow, usually 

 slightly convex. Lower margin of orbit usually below middle of depth 

 of head. Body rather slender. 



Sphyraena ensis Jordan and Gilbert. 



Bull. U. S. Fish Com., II, 1882, p. 106. Mazatlan, Mexico. (Charles H. 

 Gilbert.) 



Head 3, from tip of mandible; depth 7^; D. V-I, 9; A. II, 8; scales 



about 108 in lateral line to base of caudal, 8 more continued on latter; 



snout 2\ in head, from its tip ; eye 5^ ; maxillary 2j ; interorbital space 



Oy; pectoral about 2f. Head slender, jaws attenuate. Eye low, 



lower margin f in depth of head. Interorbital space a little elevated 



convexly, two median ridges pronounced. ]\Iaxillary reaching front 



margin of ej^e. Mandible with fleshy tip. Gill-rakers better developed 



than in guachanclio, short, numerous, pointed, rather firm. Pectoral 



reaching well beyond spinous dorsal. Spinous dorsal dusky. Length 



17|^ inches. One example from Panama. J. A. McNeil. 



Sphyraena picudilla Poey. Plate XLVI (lower figure). 



Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, II, 1856-58, p. 162. Havane. 



Head 2y^o from tip of snout; depth 8f ; D. V-I, 9; A. II, 9; P. I, 12; 

 V. I, 5; scales 110 in lateral line to base of caudal, 5 more on latter; 

 width of head 4 in its length, from tip of mandibles; depth of head 3^; 

 first dorsal spine 3^; pectoral 3; ventral 3^; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 5^ ; snout 2\ in head, from its own tip; eye 6; maxillary 2f ; 

 interorbital space 5^. Caudal peduncle stout, compressed, its least 

 depth about 2| in its length. Mandible with somewhat fleshy tip. 

 First dorsal spine longest, though little longer than second. Pectoral 

 not reaching opposite origin of spinous dorsal. Tip of lower jaw pale, 

 though a little dusky above. Otherwise like tome. I^ength about 8^ 

 inches. One example. "Sambaia" (Brazil?). Mus. Comp. Zool. 



Sphyraena borealis De Kay. 



Zool. New York, IV, Fish., 1842, p. 39, PI. 60, fig. 196. Harbor of New 

 York. 



Head Z^; depth 8; D. V-I, 9; A. II, 9; scales 121 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal, and about 5 more on latter; eye 5| in head, from tip 

 of snout; maxillary 2|. One example 15^ inches long, from San 

 Domingo, West Indies. Prof. W. M. Gabb. 



Sphyraena tome sp. nov. Plate XLVI (upper figure). 



Head 3, measured from tip of mandible; depth 8; D. V-I, 9; A. II, 

 8; P. I, 12; V. I, 5; scales 135 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 751 



several (5?) more on latter; 24? scales in a transverse oblique series 

 between origin of spinous dorsal and that of ventral ; width of head 4 

 in its length; depth of head 3i; mandible If; second dorsal spine 3^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 6; ventral 3f ; snout 2^ in head, meas- 

 ured from tip of upper jaw; eye 6; maxillary 2| ; interorbital space 7. 



Body rather slender, not especially elongate, not especially com- 

 pressed, but more or less cylindrical. Caudal peduncle compressed, its 

 least depth about 3| in its length. 



Head elongate, slender, attenuate, somewhat compressed, and be- 

 coming a little constricted below. Profiles similar, and nearly straight. 

 Snout long, slightly convex above, with two frontal ridges, approxi- 

 mated at first, then more distant posteriorly, and continued well up 

 to top of head behind eyes. Eye moderately large, orbicular and its 

 lower margin about f of distance in depth of head at that point. I\Iax- 

 illary falling far short of front of orbit, hardly reaching opposite pos- 

 terior nostril. Distal expanded extremity of maxillary equal to abovit 

 f orbital diameter. Mandible produced well beyond upper jaw, and 

 with a slightly fleshy tip. Teeth uniserial in jaws. Enlarged, com- 

 pressed and fang-like below, and in sides of upper jaw short, fine, num- 

 erous and sharp-pointed. A single large fang at symphysis of mandible 

 and four large canines in front of upper jaw. A single series of teeth 

 on each palatine, consisting of several large compressed fangs in front, 

 and giving place to small teeth, like those in upper jaw, posteriorly. 

 Tongue long, slender, pointed, free mostly in front, and with its upper 

 surface finely asperous. Lips rather broad and thin at corners of 

 mouth. Nostrils rather near together, well in front of and about level 

 with upper margin of eye. Interorbital space a little less than eye, 

 and slightly elevated convexly. 



Gill-opening extending forward till a little behind front rim of orbit. 

 Rakers absent, replaced by minute asperities. Pseudobranchise a 

 little shorter than filaments, which are a trifle less than half orbital 

 diameter. Isthmus rounded. 



Scales small. Head more or less covered with small scales, obsolete 

 at present on opercle, where they may have fallen, and those on cheek 

 small. Scales on trunk mostly fallen. Bases of soft dorsal, anal and 

 caudal with small scales, especially first rays of former two fins. There 

 they become minute and crowded. Lateral line straight, inclined from 

 upper edge of gill-opening to middle of base of caudal, and consisting 

 of rather large simple tubes. Scales mostly remain throughout its 

 course. 



Spinous dorsal inserted a trifle before origin of ventral, nearer tip 




752 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.. 



of snout than base of caudal, and spines rather pungent, second longest. 

 Soft dorsal inserted midway between origin of spinous dorsal and base 

 of caudal, anterior or first rays elevated, and highest. Anal similar, 

 and its origin about opposite that of soft dorsal. Caudal emarginate. 

 Pectoral small, damaged, though evidently falling well short of spinous 

 dorsal. Ventral small, hardly reaching | of distance to origin of anal. 

 Anus close in front of anal fin. 



Color in alcohol brown above, silvery-white below. Fins all pale 

 brown, dorsals and caudal tinted a little with dusky. Tip of loAver 

 jaw blackish. Kye brassy. Peritoneum silvery. 



Length (caudal damaged) 8^ inches. 



Type No. 11,463, A. N. S. P. "Sambaia." Presented by the Mus. 

 Comp. Zool., Cambridge, Massachusetts. 



One example, the type. I am unable to locate the type locality, 

 though subsequent labels refer it to Brazil. It was found in the same 

 jar -oith »S. picudilla and originally identified as Sphyrcena vulgoris. 

 It differs from 8. sphyrcena chiefly in fewer anal rays, and from picudilla 

 in same way, though with more numerous scales in lateral line. 



{Ti>jj.rj, that cuts, acute.) 



Explanation of Plates XLV and XLVI. 



Plate XLV. — Liza alosoides Fowler. 



Type No. 9,771, A. N. S. P. West Mrica. 

 Mugil incilis Hancock. 



No. 9,827, A. N. S. P. Guiana. 



Plate XLVI. — Sphyrcena tome Fowler. 



Type No. 11,463, A. N. S. P. Sambaia 

 SphijrcerM picudilla Poey. 



No. 11,464, A. N. S. P. Sambaia. 




1903.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 753 



November 17. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.I)., in the Chair. 



r Nineteen persons present. 



The Cause of Inverse Symmetry.- — Dr. Edwin G. Conklin remarked 

 that the fact that animals with totally inverse symmetry may occur 

 within the limits of the same species indicates that the cause of this 

 phenomenon must be an ontogenetic rather than a philogenetic one. 

 Furthermore, in all cases in which the development of an inversely 

 symmetrical animal has been studied, the cleavage of the egg is also 

 found to be inverse. He had found that the inverse cleavage of 

 Gasteropods may be traced back to the very first division of the egg, 

 and that this must be preceded by an inverse organization of the 

 unsegmented egg. No inverse organization can be detected in the 

 ovarian eggs of sinistral snails, and it is therefore probable that it 

 arises about the time of the maturation or fertilization of the egg. 

 In dextral snails the ])olar bodies are formed at what was the free pole 

 of the ovarian egg, and if the polar bodies were to be formed at the oppo- 

 site or attached ]:»olc in sinistral forms it would entirely and satis- 

 factorily explain their inverse symmetry. While such a reversal of the 

 polarity of the egg in sinistral forms has not been demonstrated, 

 certain observations have been made which render it probable. 



The subject was discussed by ]\Iessrs. Chapman, Pilsbry and Skinner. 



Morgan Hebard and Henry W. Fowler were elected members. 



Hugo de ^Vies, of Amsterdam, Eduard Strasburger, of Bonn, and 

 Nestor Grehant, of Paris, were elected correspondents. 



The following were accepted for publication: 



^s 




754 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . Nov, 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW LANTERN FISH. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



MYCTOPHIDiE. 



CENTROBRANCHUS gen. nov. 



Type Centrohranchus choeroccphalus sp. nov. 

 Close to Rhinoscopelus Liitken, but differing in the gill-raker.5, which 

 are short sparse clusters of asperities on the first arch. 

 (A'/v-oov, prick; i^.o^y/o^, giU-) 



Centrobranchus choerocephalus sp. nov. 



Rhinoscopelus coruscans Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900. p. 498. 

 Near the Sandwich Islands. (Dr. WiUiam H. Jones.) (Not of Richard- 

 son.) 



Rhinoscopelus oceanicus Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 

 1902 (1903), p. 168. (Not description. Part.) 



Head 3|; depth 5; D. 10; A. IS; scales 35 in a lateral series to base 

 of caudal ; about 6 scales in a transverse series at origin of rayed dor- 

 sal ; depth of head 1^ in its length ; width of head 2|- ; snout 4^ ; eye 3f ; 

 interorbital space 3^; maxillary If; least depth of caudal peduncle 5. 



Body elongate, well compressed, slender and tapering posteriorly, 

 upper profile a little more convex anteriorly, and greatest depth about 

 origin of ventral. Caudal peduncle long, slender, and its more or less 

 even depth about 3^ in length from adipose fin. 



Head shaped somewhat like that of an Anchovy, upper profile a 

 little more convex especially at occiput, and well compressed. Snout 

 protruding beyond mouth, conic, and a little shorter than orbit. Eye 

 small, circular, about midway in depth and near first third of head. 

 Mouth large, inferior, maxillary narrow or slender, of even width, and 

 extending posteriorly well beyond orbit. Mandibular rami formed 

 of rather broad bones and extending far back like maxillary. Teeth 

 in jaws and on palatines minute, and in narrow bands. A^omer with 

 similar teeth, though a little more conspicuous. Tongue a short conic 

 protuberance in front of mouth. Interorbital space convex. A 

 slight mesial elevation in the internasal depression. 



Gill-opening extending forward opposite middle of orbit. Rakers 

 about 3 + 5 clusters or groups of small inconspicuous prickles on first 

 arch. Filaments small. Pseud obranchise present. Isthmus narrow 

 and trenchant. 




1903 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 755 



Scales large, edges mostly entire, cycloid, stiff, and rather narrowly 

 imbricated along middle of side. A few small scales on base of caudal, 

 fins otherwise naked. Lateral line not evident. 



Three mandibular photophores. One on lower anterior portion of 

 opercle. An interorbital photophore. One at lower base of pectoral, 

 and another just below along edge of gill-opening. Five thoracic. 

 One anterolateral, above base of ventral. One mediolateral low, 

 and just a little behind and above tip of ventral. Another apparently 

 mediolateral, two scales behind and a little higher. Posterolateral 

 inconspicuous, median in depth, and also about midway between 

 dorsals over breach in anals. Ventrals four. Five anals, then a breach 

 and finally fovu' more. Six more continued along lower side of caudal 

 peduncle without a breach, then two more. Two caudals below. 

 One caudal alDovc. Six large supercaudals, beginning just behind 

 adipose fin. 



Dorsal rather small, inserted nearer tip of snout than base of caudal, 

 and posterior base opposite front of anal. Anal long, inserted nearly 

 midway between posterior margin of pupil and base of caudal, anterior 

 rays highest. Adipose dorsal small, a little before end of base of anal. 

 Caudal small. Pectoral small, inserted a little below middle of depth 

 of body. Ventral small, inserted near last third in space between 

 origin of pectoral and that of dorsal. 



Color in alcohol deep dusky with iridescent bluish, purplish and sil- 

 very reflections. Fins plain pale brownish. Photophores black, with 

 bright silvery centers. Supercaudals with dull yellowish. Iris dull 

 dark yellowish. 



Length If^- inches. 



Type No. 7,972, A. N. S. P. Near the Sandwich Islands. Dr. 

 William H. Jones. Also three co-types with same data, and the small- 

 est of these, together with the type, may probably be males as they are 

 a little more attenuate than the others. 



Originally I wrongly identified these examples with Myctophum 

 coruscans Richardson. Drs. Jordan and Evermann consider them 

 identical with their Rhinoscopelus oceanicus. If oceanicus is correct 

 generically it is certainly distinct from the examples before me of 

 chcerocephalus. Examination of R. coccoi, typical of that genus, show 

 that it has long, slender and numerous gill-rakers on the first arch. 

 R. oceanicus would further differ in the large eye (2^ in head) and deeper 

 body (4^0 in length). 



(XoJpoij pig; KswaXfij head.) 




756 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



A LIST OF SHELLS COLLECTED IN WESTEEN FLORIDA AND HORN 

 ISLAND, MISSISSIPPI. 



BY E. G. VAX ATT A. 



During February and March, 1902, Mr. Clarence B. Moore collected 

 the followmg species of shells while on an archaeological expedition in 

 western Florida. Most of the specimens were picked up on the 

 shore. The numbers after the species correspond to the numbers of 

 the localities, as follows: 



1. Alhgator Harbor, Franklin county, Florida. 



2. St. George's Sound, Franklin county, Florida. 



3. Indian Pass, Apalachicola Bay, Calhoun county, Florida. 



4. St. Joseph's Bay, Calhoun county, Florida. 



5. Crooked Island, off St. Andrew's Sound, Calhoun county, Florida. 



6. St. Andrew's Bay, Washington county, Florida. 



Those numbered 7 are a collection of shells from Horn Island, Mis- 

 sissippi, presented to the Academy some years ago. It is hoped that 

 this list, which well covers the western coast of non-peninsular Florida, 

 wall be a useful appendix to Prof. W. H. DaU's Bulletin 37 of the U. S. 

 National Museum. I wish to thank Prof. W. H. Dall, Mr. C. W. John- 

 son and Dr. H. A. Pilsbry for their assistance in identifying some of 

 the species of this collection. 



Class PELECYPODA. 



Ostreavirginica Gme\. 2,4.5. ' Area secticostata Reeve. 4, 5, 

 Anomia simplex Orb. 4, 5. 7. Glyeimeris amerieana Defr. 3. 



Plicatula gibbosa Lam. 4, 5, 7, , Leda acuta Conr. 3, 4, 5. 



Pecten gibbus irradians Lam. 1, \ Cardita floridana Conr. 1,5. 



3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Cuna dalli Van. 3, 4, 5. 



Atrina rigida Dillw. 4. Crassinella lunulata Conr. 3, 4, 5. 



Atrina serrata "Sol." iiowh. 4. Anisodonta elliptica 'Red. 5. 



Mytilus exustus L. 5. 

 Modiolus tulipus L. 1,4, 5. 

 Modiolus demissus Dillw. 4. 



Erycina floridana Van. 5. 

 Lucina chrysostoma Phil. 4, 5. 

 Phacoides trisulcatus Conr. 5. 



Area ponderosa Say. 1. 3, 4, 5. 7. Phacoides nassula Conr. 4, 5. 



Area transversa Say. 3, 5, 7. Phacoides floridanus Conr. 4, 5. 



Area incongrua Say. 1, 3, 4, 7. 7. 



ArcacampechiensisGxne\. 1,3,4, Phacoides radians Conr. 4, 5, 7. 



7. I Phacoides crenella Dall. 3, 4, 5, 7. 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



757 



3, 4, 5, 



1, 4, 5. 

 3,4. 



Phacoides amiantus Dall. 4, 5, 7. 

 Divaricella quadrisulcata Orb. 5. 

 Diplodonta punctata Say. 5, 7. 

 Chama arcinella L. 4. 

 Cardium rohustum Sol. 



6,7. 

 Cardium isocardium L. 

 Cardium muricatum L. 

 Cardium serratum L. 3, 4, 5, 7. 

 Cardium mortoni Conr. 6. 

 Fe/ZMS mercenaria L. 1,4. 

 Fen us mercenaria mortoni Conr. 



3, 5, 7. 

 Fenws cribraria Conr. 4, 5, 7. 

 Venus cancellata L. 4, 5, 7. 

 Fenws pygmcea I.am. 4, 5, 7. 

 Fenws cuneimeris Conr. 4, 5. 

 Gemma gemma purpurea Lea. 4. 

 Parastarte triquetra Conr. 4, 5. 

 Meretrix simpsoni Dall. 4, 5. 

 Meretrix eucymata Dall. 7. 

 Meretrix conradiana Dall. 4, 5. 

 Meretrix texasiana Dall. 3. 

 Callista nimbosa Sol. 1, 4, 5, 6, 7. 

 Dosinia discus Rve. 1, 4, 5, 7. 

 Petricola pholadiformis Lam. 3, 



4,5. 



5. 



1, 3, 7. 



5,7. 



7. 

 4,5. 



3. 



Donax variabilis Say. 1, 3, 4, 5, 



6,7. 

 Donax ohesa Orb. 3, 4, 5, 7. 

 Tagelus divisus Spengl. 3, 5. 

 Tellina magna Spengl. 

 Tellina alternata Say. 

 Tellina tenera Say. 3. 

 Tellina polita Say. 4. 

 Tellina consobrina Orb. 

 Tellina lintea Conr. 5, 

 Tellina pauperata Orb. 

 Macoma constricta Broiig. 

 Macoma brevifrons Say. 7. 

 Macoma tenta Say. 5. 

 Tellidora cristata Reel. 5. 

 Strigilla flexuosa Say. 4, 5, 7. 

 ilfe^is intastriata Say. 4. 

 A&ra cequalis Say. 3, 4, 5, 7. 

 Ervilia concentrica Gld. 4, 5. 

 Semele bellastriata Conr. 4, 7. 

 Spisula solidissima similis Say. 



1, 3, 4, 5, 7. 

 Mulinia lateralis Say. 3, 4, 5, 7. 

 Labiosa canaliculata Say. 1, 3, 7. 

 Panopea hitruncata Conr. 5. 

 Ensis directus Conr. 5. 

 Barnea costata Say. 3. 



Class SOAPHOPODA. 



Dentalium disparile Orb. 4, 5. 



Class GASTROPODA. 



Tornatina candei Orb. 4, 5. 

 Cylichnella bidentata Orb. 3. 

 Bullus occidentalis A. Ad. 5. 

 Melampus coffea gundlachi Pfr. 6. 

 Terebra dislocata Say. 4, 5. 

 Mangilia cerina K. and S. 4, 5. 

 Cancellaria reticulata L. 5. 

 OZwa literata Lam. 1, 3, 4, 5. 

 Olivella mutica Sav. 4. 



Olivella pusilla Marr. 4, 5. 

 Marginella apicina i\Ienke. 5. 

 Fasciolaria tulipa Lam. 4, 5. 

 Fulgur pyrum Dillw, 4, 5. 

 Fulgur perversa L. 4, 5. 

 Melongena corona Gmel. 4. 

 Tritonidea cancellaria Conr. 7. 

 Nassa acuta Say. 4, 5. 

 Columbella avara Say. 5. 




ro8 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



Litorina irrorata Say. 4, 6. 

 Rissoina browtiiana Orb. 5. 

 Crepidula fornicata L. 3, 4, 5, 6. 

 Crepidula plana Say. 4, 5. 

 Crepidula aculeata Gmel. 3. 

 Natica pusilla Say. 4, 5. 

 Polinices duplicatus Say. 1. 



5,7. 

 Sigaretus perspectivus Say. 



4,5. 

 Turbo castaneus crenulatus Gmel. 



5, 6. 

 Teinostoma cryptospira Verr. 5. 

 Vitrinella mooreana Van. 5. 



3,4, 

 1, 3, 



Columbella obesa Say. 4, 5. 

 Murex fidvcscens Sowb. 3. 

 Purpura hcemastoma L. 7. 

 Pyramidella crenulata Holmes. 



4,5. 

 Turbonilla conradi Bush. 3, 4, 5. 

 Cassis inflata Shaw. 4, 5, 6. 

 Pyrula papyratia Say. 3, 4, 5. 

 Strombus pugilis L. 4, 5. 

 Strombus pugilis alatus Gmel. 



4,6. 

 Sella adamsii H. C. Lea. 5. 

 Ccecum pulchellum Stimp. 5. 

 C cecum cooperi Smith. 5. 

 Meioceras nitida Stimp. 5. 



The following species are believed to be new : 

 Vitrinella mooreana n. sp. Fig. i. 



Shell umbilicate, discoidal, with about ^ whorls. The first whorl 

 is yellow and smooth, the remaining are white and sculptured ^\dth 

 heavy spiral cords, of which there are 5 on the 

 penultimate whorl and 7 on the body whorl above 

 the periphery. The granulate interstices are 

 about as wide as the spiral cords. The base is 

 sculptured with very faint spiral striae. The 

 aperture is oblique and suborbicular, -udth the 

 columella broadly thickened. 



Alt. 1.2, diam. 2.75; aperture alt. 1, diam. 1 

 mm. 



This species was collected by Mr. Clarence B. 

 Moore on the gulf side of Crooked Island, off 

 St. Andrew's Soimd, Calhoun county, Florida. 

 The types are No. 84,611, A. N. S. P. It is named 

 in honor of its collector, Mr. Moore. The species 

 seems to be near V. multistriata Verr., but differs 

 in having 7 strong spiral cords above the 

 periphery and a nearly smooth base. It differs 

 from V. striata Orb. in having a thickened columella. 

 Erycina floridana n. sp. Fig. 2. 



Shell small, white, thin, subquadrate, with the ends nearly evenly 

 rounded, almost equilateral, beaks low, surface sculptured with irreg- 

 ular lines of growth. Hinge with a central pit and rather large lateral 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



759 



teeth, four being in one valve and two in the other. The adductor 

 scars are rather large, connected by an irregular pallial line. 



Alt. 5, length 8.25, thickness of 1 valve 1.75 mm. 



This species was collected by Mr. Clarence B. Moore on the gulf side 

 of Crooked Island. Florida. The types are No. 83,876, A. N. S. P. 

 Prof. W. H. Dall kindly compared it with his species from the Florida 

 Pliocene. It is ver}" near E. kurtzii Dall, but seems to be more 

 delicate, with stronger laterals and more evenly rounded ends. 



Fig. 2. 



Fig. 3. 



Cuna dalli n. sp. Fig. 3. 



Shell subtriangular, inequilateral, purple in the center becoming 

 lighter near the edge, surface sculptured with concentric costae, ven- 

 tral margin smooth, adductor muscle scars rather large, hinge strong 

 and broad. The right valve has three cardinals, the anterior is long 

 and low, the central large and triangular, the posterior short and nar- 

 row, situated at the edge of the large ligament pit. In the left valve 

 the anterior cardinal is long and low, the curved central is smaller 

 than the central of the opposite valve, the posterior cardinal is a small 

 ridge at the edge of the ligament. Pallial line entire. 



Alt. 2.5, length 2.4, thickness of one valve .8 mm. 



The types of this species are No. 84,612, A. N. S. P. They were 

 collected by Mr. Moore at Indian Pass, Apalachicola Ba}'", Florida; 

 he also collected the same species at St. Joseph Bay and on the gulf 

 side of Crooked Island, off St. Andrew's Sound, Florida. 



This species is more rounded and inequilateral than Parastarte 

 triquetra Conr., and lacks the crenulation on the ventral margin. It 

 has a broader hinge than Gemma gemma Totten, but the surface 

 sculpture is veiy similar. It is more inequilateral than Cu7ia concen- 

 trica Hedley, but the hinge is similar. Cuna particula Hedley is more 

 rounded and truncate, with a slightly different hinge. 




760 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF liDcC, 



December 1. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced : Enoch Lewis, 

 November 15, 1902; Charles W. Trotter, August 5, 1903; Mrs. J. Edgar 

 Thomson, November 24, 1903, and Charles Schaeffer. ]M.D., Novem- 

 ber 23, 1903. 



Ox the announcement of the death of Dr. Charles Schaeffer, 

 the following minute was imanimously adopted : 



Conscious of the loss it has sustained in the death of Dr. Charles 

 Schaeffer, the Academy desires to place on record a minute to that 

 effect. Since his election to membership in 1861, Dr. Schaeffer had 

 been loyally interested in the well-being and growth of the society. 

 He served acceptably as a member of the Council and of the Library 

 Committee. His efficiency as Secretary of the Botanical, the ]\Iiner- 

 alogical. and the Biological and Microscopical Sections is proof of the 

 wide sphere of his nature-studies, while his skill in photography 

 enabled him to permanently place the results of his work in the cabinet 

 and in the field at the service of his fellow-students. He thus alike 

 recorded with loving care and exquisite fidelity the floral beauties of 

 the fields and dells he had known from childhood and the glories of 

 the distant snow-clad peaks of the western mountains, where for many 

 years he periodically drew store of health and inspiration. 



He made the needs of the Academy at large matters of personal 

 concern, and was ever ready with "uise counsel and practical encour- 

 agement, while in his intercourse with his fellow-members he was 

 notably gentle, courteous and s^^mpathetic. His memory will be held 

 in affectionate regard. 



Dr. Bexjamix Sharp made a communication on the fishes of Nan- 

 tucket. It will be incorporated in a paper to be published in the next 

 volume of the Proceedixgs. 



Ganglia of Odonata. — Dr. Philip P. Calvert spoke of the abdominal 

 and thoracic ganglia of dragonflies (Odonata), stating that the eight 

 pairs constituting the abdominal portion of the ventral nerve cord of 

 young larv'ae are reduced to seven, in later larval life, bj^ the fusion of 

 the first pair with the third thoracic {jEschna, Anax). The second ab- 

 dominal pair move forward to lie in the first abdominal segment, leav- 

 ing the second segment (alone of the first eight) without ganglia. 

 This later condition is likewise that of the adults of the suborder Ani- 

 soptera. as far as known. Adults of at least some species of the sub- 

 order Zvgoptera show some differences (Calvert, Proc. Calif. Acad. 

 Sci., 3d "series, I, p. 410, 1899). 



The following were accepted for publication : 




1903.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 761 



MEXICAN LAND AND FRESHWATER MOLLUSKS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The following report is based chiefly upon material collected by Mr, 

 S. N, Rhoads during two expeditions to Mexico; the first in February, 

 March and April, 1899, the second undertaken early in 1893, and un- 

 fortunately cut short by his recall to Philadelphia after only a few 

 days in the field. Occasion has been taken to include sundry notes 

 upon and descriptions of new Mexican and Central American mollusks 

 in the collection of the Academy, worked up in the course of study 

 upon Mr. Rhoads' collection; the whole being supplemental to the 

 great works upon this fauna of Fischer and^ Crosse, E. \'on ]\Iartens 

 and H. Strebel.* 



The species of greatest interest in ^Ir. Rhoads' collection is that I 

 have elsewhere described as Metostracon mima, an extraordinary slug- 

 like snail, which contributes not only a genus new to i\Iexico, but a 

 totally new line of differentiation in the family Helicidce. 



From the faunistic standpoint, the collections made at Victoria 

 in Tamaulipas, and at Monterey and the adjacent mining village of 

 Diente in Xuevo Leon, are of great importance, confirming the north- 

 ward extension of the Neotropical region in east Mexico, already 

 mapped on the evidence of the birds of that district. The localities 

 mentioned are sufficiently alike in their faunae to be considered 

 together. In a total of 46 species, 



Fifteen are identical, with characteristic species of Vera Cruz Prov- 

 ince ; 



Three are identical with species of the States of Mexico, Jalisco, etc.; 



Ten are identical with species of Texas 



(Five of the above occur from Vera Cruz to Texas); 



Twenty are species special to Xuevo Leon and Tamaulipas, but 

 belonging to Vera Cruzian genera or smaller groups; 



Three are species special to Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas, but 

 belonging to groups ranging from Vera Cruz to Texas. 



^ As the literature has been fully cited by these authors, I have thought the 

 insertion of references to be needless, except in dealing with new species described 

 in my previous paper on Mr. Rhoads' collection, and in a few other cases inade- 

 quately treated in the larger worlvs, or omitted therefrom. 




762 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



There are therefore 33 distinctively Neotropical species; 5 species 

 as characteristic of the Texan fauna ; and 8 species with a wide distri- 

 bution in both regions, or belonging to groups with such a distribution. 

 Part of the latter are doubtless of Neotropical origin ultimately, 

 but in two cases {Zonitoides arboreus and Bifidaria curvidens) truly 

 Palaearctic. 



HELIOID^. 

 Helix aspersa Mull. 



Tlalpam. State of Mexico, and Pueblo, State of Pueblo; at both 

 places in abundance. At Tlalpam the}- are all small, diam. 24 to 29 mm., 

 and similar to Kobelt's fig. 364 of Plate 69 in Vol. Ill (n. F.) of Ross- 

 massler's Iconographie, except that there are 5 or 4 bands, as in fig. 

 350 of PI. 67. The shells from Pueblo are larger, 26 to 33 mm. diam., 

 with band formulae varying from 1 (2 3) 4 5 to (1 2 3) (4 5). 



Lysinoe humboldtiana bufFoniana (Pfr.). 



Diente, near IMontere}^, Nuevo Leon. Adult shells measure from 

 27 x 33 to 37 x 42 mm. 



Trichodiscina cordovana (Pfr.)- 



Texolo, \. C; canon 4 miles west of Victoria. Tamaulipas; Diente, 

 near [Monterey, Nuevo Leon. The last two localities extend the range 

 of this species far to the north. 



Metostracon mima Pilsbry. 



Proc. Malac. Soc. London, IV, p. 27,. PI. 3, figs. 1-11. 

 Morelia and Uruapam, ^lichoacan. 



Xanthonyx salleanus (Pfr.). 

 Texolo. V. C. 



Praticolella berlandieriana (Moric). 



Around Victoria, Tamaulipas, and at ]\Ionterey and Topo Chico, 

 Nuevo Leon. 



Praticolella griseola (Pfr.)- 



Antigua, V. C. 

 Praticolella ampla (Pfr.). 



Texolo, V. C. 



Praticolella strebeliana Pils. PI. LI, figs. 6, 6a. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 394. 



Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon. 

 Polygyra plagioglossa (Pfr.). 



Patzcuaro, Michoacan; Pueblo, State of Pueblo. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 763 



Polygyra suprazonata Pils. PI. LXI, figs. 1, la, 1&. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S99, p. 393. 

 Tzintzuntzan, State of Michoacan. 



Polygyra rhoadsi Pils. PI. LXI, figs. 2, 2a, 26. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 392. 



Topo Chico, near^Monterey, Nuevo Leon. 

 Thysanopliora conspurcatella (Morel.). 



Antigua, V. C. 

 Thysanophora impura (Pfr.). 



Antigua, V. C. 



Thysanophora proxima Pils. PI. XLIX, figs. 2, 2a. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1899, p. 394. 

 Uruapam, Huingo, Patzcuaro and ^lorelia, in the State of Michoacan ; 

 the types from the former locahty. 



Thysanophora horni (Gabb). 



Victoria, State of Tamauhpas, in chaparral; Topo Chico, near Mon- 

 terey, Nuevo Leon. The specimens have been carefully compared 

 with the types from Arizona, and are undoubtedly this species, which, 

 when fresh, has a sparsely hairy cuticle. See Nautilus, XIII, 98. 

 It is new to the Mexican fauna. 



Thysanophora coloba Pilsbry. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1893, p. 403, figs, in text. 



Pol von, department of Chinandega, western Nicaragua (McNiel 

 expedition). A minute species, diam. 1.8 mm., overlooked by the 

 authors of the Biologia and Mission Scientifique, and inserted here to 

 rescue it from oblivion. 



In this connection it may be mentioned that Pupisoma americanum 

 Mlldff., NachrU. d. d. malak. Ges., 1899, p. 91, is apparently a synonym 

 of Thysanophora coeca. 

 Thysanophora fischeri n. sp. PI. XLIX, figs. 6, 6a. 



Shell umbihcate, depressed-conic, thin, pale brown. Surface dull, 

 sculptured with thin cuticular laminae more oblique than the lines of 

 growth. Spire conic, the apex obtuse. Whorls 4, very convex, the 

 last rounded peripherally and beneath. Umbilicus contained about 7 

 times in the diameter of the shell. Aperture quite oblique, rounded- 

 lunate, the peristome thin and simple, columellar margin dilated. 

 Alt. 1.5, diam. 2.4 mm. 



Tamaulipas, in a canon about 4 miles west of Victoria. Types No. 

 85.911, A. N. S. P., collected by S. N. Rhoads, 1903. 



This species is almost exactly intermediate between T. granum 




764 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Strebel and T. conspurcatella (^lorel.). It is lower than the former 

 species, with a larger umbilicus, and higher than the latter, with the 

 umbilicus narrower. It unites the group of species referred to Acan- 

 thinula by von Martens with the typical forms of Thysanophora. 

 Named in honor of one of the authors of the volumes on mollusks in 

 the Mission Scientifique au Mexique. 



Thysanophora tatei Pilsbry. PL XLIX, figs. 3, 3a, 36. 



Helix blakeana Tate, Amer. Jour, of Conch., V, p. 155, PI. 16, fig. 3 (1870). 



Not H. blakeana Newc, 1861. 

 Thysanophora tatei Pils. 



Shell depressed, discoidal, the spire but slightly convex; openly 

 umbilicate, the width of the mnbilicus contained about 3f times in 

 the diameter of the shell; thin, slightly translucent, grayish corneous. 

 Sculpture of fine, rather close but somewhat irregularly spaced thread- 

 like rib-striae in harmony with growth-lines. Whorls 3^, convex, 

 slowly increasing to the last, which is double the width of the preceding, 

 romided peripherally and beneath. Suture very deep and conspicuous. 

 Aperture slightly oblique, round-lunate, about one-fourth of the circle 

 excised by the preceding whorl; lip thin and simple throughout, the 

 margins converging. Alt. 1.8, diam. 3 mm. 



Chontales forest, Nicaragua. 



The unique type is No. 58,065, A. N. S. P., collected by Ralph Tate. 



The name given by Tate to this species is preoccupied. It was 

 omitted from Crosse and Fischer's great work, and placed in the syn- 

 onymy of Pseudohyalina minuscula by von Martens. It is related to 

 some undetermined species in the collection of the Academy from 

 northern South America, but has no very close relatives among Mexi- 

 can snails, so far as I know. The generic position of this snail is un- 

 certain, but it has more the appearance of Thysanophora than of any 

 Zonitid group. The thread-like rib-striae are not cuticular, but more 

 like the striae of Pyramidula. 



BULIMULID^. 

 Bulimulus dealbatus Say. 



Monterey, State of Nuevo Leon. A slender form, closely mottled 

 and streaked. 

 Balimulus dealbatus schiedeanus Pfr. 



Saltillo, Coahuila (S. N. Rhoads, 1899). The large typical form of 

 schiedeanus. 



Bulimulus alternatus marise Alb. 



Monterey, State of Nuevo Leon; in chaparral near Victoria, Ta- 

 maulipas. Specimens from ^lonterey are like that from Laredo, Texas, 




1903,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 765 



figured in Manual of Conchology, XI, PL 17, fig. 24. Those from near 

 Victoria are similarly marked, but are smaller. Both have the lip 

 thickened and the mouth brown or purplish-brown inside, the tint 

 rather dilute in some specimens. 

 Drymaeus emeus (Say). 



Canon 4 miles west of Victoria, Tamaulipas. Specimens like von 

 Martens' figures 7, 7a, of Plate 14 of the Biologia. This is far north 

 of all previous records. 

 Drymaeus sulphureus (Pfr.)- 



Texolo, V. C. 

 Drymaeus hegewischi (Pfr.). 



Texolo, V. C. 

 Drymaeus dunkeri (Pfr.). 



Patzcuaro and Tzintzuntzan, Michoacan. 



UROOOPTID^. 

 Microceramus mexicanus (Marts.)- 



Man. of Conch. (2), XVI, p. 156, PL 26, figs. 26, 27 (specimen from Diente). 



Around Victoria, Tamaulipas, and Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo 



Leon. This form is readily distinguishable from both M. concisus on 



the south and M. texanus on the north. It occurred in numbers, and 



is no doubt a widely spread and characteristic east Mexican species. 



Subgenus GYROCION nov. 



Slender cylindrelloid snails with the axis large, hollow and smooth, 

 apex smooth and apparently retained entire. Whorls extremely 

 numerous and narrow, some intermediate ones with a spiral lamella 

 within on the basal partition. Characters of the aperture unknown. 



This group is proposed for an imperfectly known snail which cannot 

 well be placed in any of the recognized genera, though it apparently 

 is related to Epirobia and Holospira. The former group differs by its 

 rugose axis and in the absence of a spiral basal lamella. Further 

 examples of the complete shell and a knowledge of the dentition are 

 necessary for an adequate definition of the position of the group. 

 Epirobia (Gyrocion) mirabilis n. sp. PI. L, figs. 10, 10a. 



The shell is cylindric below, gradually tapering above to an entire 

 apex; composed of very many narrow and strongly convex whorls; 

 light brown; finely and closely costulate-striate vertically. The apex 

 is obtuse, smooth and rather globular; the following three whorls are 

 equal in diameter; the calibre of the shell then slowly enlarges until 




766 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the cylindric portion has a diameter of 2.5 mm. The hollow central 

 axis is nearly one-third the diameter of the shell, and is smooth. In 

 the lower part of the tapering portion, a low lamella revolves in the 

 middle of the floor or basal wall of the w^horls. Length of the fragment 

 of the tapering portion figm-ed 6 mm. ; whorls 17. Length of cylindric 

 fragment 4.2 mm. ; whorls about 5^. 



Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon. Types Xo. 85,914, A. X. S. P., 

 two fragments collected by S. N. Rhoads, 1903. 



PUPID^. 



Pupoides marginatus (Say). 



Topo Chico, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon. Abimdant. 

 Bifidaria contracta (Say). 



Texolo, V. C. (Rhoads.) Hitherto known from only two places in 

 Mexico, Orizaba, V. C, and Yautepec, Moreles, collected by the Heil- 

 prin expedition of 1890. 



Bifidaria prototypus Pils. PI. L, figs. 7, 7a. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 400. 

 The angular and parietal lamellse arc more separated than in any 

 other species of the typical group of Bifidaria. 



Bifidaria pellucida hordeacella (Pils.)- 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 594. 



Antigua, V. C. ; canon 4 miles from Victoria, Tamaulipas. 

 Bifidaria curvidens (Gld.). 



Canon 4 miles west of Victoria, State of Tamaulipas. 



This species is new to the Mexican fauna. 

 Strobilops strebeli (Pfr.). 



Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon. 



ZONITID^. 



Omphalina martensiana n. sp. PI. XLVIII, figs. 7, 7a, 76. 



Shell depressed, shaped about like 0. lucuhrata Say; umbilicate; pale 

 green with a broad maroon band at the periphery, another below the 

 suture, leaving a pale-green band above the periphery, visible on the 

 whorls of the spire just above the suture, the first two whorls greenish ; 

 the base, inside the peripheral maroon band, is also green. Surface 

 glossy, sculptured above with almost regularly spaced radial grooves 

 in harmony with the lines of growth, the base marked with growth- 

 wrinkles; between the radial grooves there are fine, sparse, forwardly- 

 descending, verv minute raised lines, which on the base are more 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 767 



numerous and in a spiral direction. Whorls 5, slightly convex, regu- 

 larly widening to the last, which is fully double the width of the pre- 

 ceding, rounded peripherally. Aperture oblique, rounded-lunate. 

 Alt. 13.5, diam. 22.3 mm.; width of umbilicus 2 mm. 



Guatemala: Huehuetenango. Type No. 85.521, A. X. S. P.. col- 

 lected by ]Mr. Gustav Eisen, and communicated to me by ]\Ir. Fred L. 

 Button. 



This is a superb Omphalina, perhaps the finest of the genus in color 

 and sculpture. In proportions it is near 0. lucuhrata Say, from which 

 it differs in coloration and sculpture, the radial grooves of the upper 

 surface being like those of Vitrea indentata on a large scale. 



With the red bands of 0. bilincata. it is a much larger shell, quite 

 different in sculpture. 



Teetli of Omphalina viartenstana. 



The jaw is like other species of the genus. The radula has 

 62.7.1.7.62 teeth, the seventh on each side being transitional. The 

 teeth at the middle of the marginal series (fig. 31) have unusually long 

 and graceful cusps. Omphalina bilincata has fewer lateral teeth, only 

 5, the last being a transition tooth. 



The name is to honor the author of the splendid volume on mollusks 

 in the Biologia Centrali Americana. 



Omphalina bilineata (Pfr.). 



Near Jalapa, V. C. Of 5 specimens, four have narrow bands at 

 periphery and suture, the other one being bandless. 



Omphalina lucubrata (Say). 

 Texolo, \ . C, A fine series, taken by ^Ir. Rhoads in 1899. 



Omphalina montereyensis Pils. PI. XLVIII, figs. 6, 6a, 66. 

 Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 395. 



Diente, a village near Monterey, Nuevo Leon (S. N. Rhoads, 1899 

 and 1903). A large series shows this to be very constant in shape and 

 in the comparative size of the umbilicus, the width of which is contained 




768 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



about 9 or 10 times in that of the shell. Most of the specimens are 

 smaller than the type lot. 



Alt. 6, diam. 12.5, width of umbilicus 1 mm. 



Alt. 6. diam. 10.5, width of umbilicus 1 mm. 



Alt. 6, diam. 11. .3, width of umbilicus 1 mm. 



Omphalina montereyensis victoriana n. subsp. PI. XLVIII, figs. 5, 5a, 56. 



Similar to the typical form except that the umbilicus is constantly 

 larger, its width contained about 6 times in that of the shell. Alt. 

 5.5, diam. 10.5, width of umbilicus 1.7 mm. 



Canon 4 miles west of Victoria, Tamaulipas. Types No. 85,912, 

 A. X. S. P. 



Over a hundred specimens show the slight difference between this 

 and 0. montereyensis to be constant. 

 Omphalina carinata (Strebel). 



Jalapa, in forest (Rhoads). 



Vitrea indentata (Say). 



Uruapam, Michoacan. Some of the specimens are perforate, others 

 apparently closed. They are rather small, like the common ti^ical 

 form, not like the large, perforate, Texan variety. 



Zonitoides arboreus (Say). 



Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon; Texolo, V. C. The specimens 

 from the former place wholly typical; that from the latter not quite 

 full-grown and whiter than usual, so that I am not quite positive about 

 the identification. 

 Zonitoides minusculus (Binn.). 



Topo Chico, near Monterey, State of Nuevo Leon. 

 Pycnogyra berendti (Pfr.). 



Texolo, V. C. 

 Guppya trochulina (Morel.). 



Texolo, V. C. ; Patzcuaro and Moreha,'Michoacan. 

 Guppya elegans (Strebel). 



Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon; L'ruapam, Michoacan, An 

 allied species I have not identified was taken in abundance in a caiion 

 near Victoria, Tamaulipas. 



Guppya gundlachi (Pfr.). 



Tamaulipas, in chaparral, near Victoria, and in a caiion about four 

 miles west of that place (Rhoads, 1903). Also in the collection of the 

 Academy from Polvon, Nicaragua, collected by Ralph Tate. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 769 



Guppya micra n. sp. PI. XLIX, figs. 5, 5a, 56. 



Shell distinctly perforate, low-troehoidal, the spire low conic, 

 obtuse at the summit, periphery rounded, the base convex; j^ellow- 

 ish, slightly transparent, nearly smooth. Whorls 4^, quite convex, 

 slowly and regularly increasing, parted by a well-impressed suture. 

 Aperture lunate, only slightly oblique, the columellar margin dilated. 

 Alt. 1.5, diam. 2 mm. 



Patzcuaro, Michoacan. Types No. 85,913, A. N. S. P., collected 

 by S. N. Rhoads, 1899. Also caiion 4 miles west of Victoria, 

 Tamaulipas. 



ENDODONTID^. 

 Fyramidula victoriana n. sp. PI. XLIX, figs, l, la, lb. 



Shell depressed, discoidal, the spire flat, base convex, openly umbili- 

 cate, the width of umbilicus contained about 3+ times in that of the 

 shell; thin, greenish corneous. Surface closely and regularly sculp- 

 tured with oblique, thread-like riblets, following the direction of 

 growth-lines. Whorls 3^, the last double the width of the preceding, 

 rounded at the periphery. Aperture oblique, subcircular, about one- 

 fifth or one-sixth of the circle excised by the preceding whorl ; peristome 

 thin and simple, the ends converging. 



Alt. 1.4, diam. 3.4 mm. 



Alt. 1.5, diam. 4 mm.; whorls 3f. 



Canon 4 miles west of Victoria, State of Tamaulipas. T^-pes No. 

 85,907, A. N. S. P. Also in chaparral near Victoria. 



Quite unlike any North American species in the wide last whorl 

 and flat spire, as well as the nearly round mouth. It has the sculpture 

 of Pyramidula, and is probably a member of that genus. The only 

 fresh specimen is figured, and probably is not quite mature. Another 

 bleached and imperfect one is larger, with a fourth of a whorl more. 

 Four specimens were taken. 



Sphyradium polvonense (Pils.). 



Pupa polvoiiensis Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1894, p. 31, PI. I, 

 fig. 11. 



Shell openly perforate, subcylindric, a little tapering upward, the 



summit rounded. Whitish above, with some narrow dark streaks, the 



last whorl or two olivaceous-brown, with narrow darker and light 



oblique streaks. Surface shining, faintly marked with fine growth 



lines only. Whorls 5^ or 6, slightly convex, the last very couatx 



beneath. Aperture quite oblique, truncate-ovate. Outer lip thin 



and simple; columellar lip broadl}' dilated above. Length 2.5, diam. 



1.3 mm. 



49 




770 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Western Nicaragua: Polvon, in the department of Chinandega. 

 Tj^es are No, 5,096, A. N. S. P., collected by the McNeil expedition. 



Compared with the Holarctic Sphyradium edentulum, tliis tropical 

 species is less cylindric, tapers more, and the whorls are much less 

 convex; moreover, the color is different. 



It was figured in these Proceedings under the name Pupa polvonensis 

 many years ago. A description is now supplied. It is the first Neo- 

 tropical species of the genus, but until jaw and teeth are examined 

 the generic position will remain uncertain, although the shell has the 

 form of Sphyradium. 

 Pyramidula hermanni (Pfr.)- 



Moreha, Uruapam and Patzcuaro, Michoacan (Rhoads, 1S99). 



PHILOMYCID^. 

 PMlomycus crosseanus Strebel. 



Texolo, V. C. A single specimen. 



GLANDINID^. 



The detail figures of sculpture in all cases are taken from the front 

 of the last whorl immediately below the suture. Except where other- 

 wise indicated on the plates, the other figures of Glandina are natural 

 size. 

 Glandina vanuxemensis Lea. 



Pueblo, State of ^Mexico. 

 Glandina michoacanensis Pils. PI. XLVII, figs. 1, la, 16. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 397. 



Uruapam, Michoacan. Types No. 77,181, A. N. S. P. The figures 

 show adult and young shells. 

 Glandina huingensis n. sp. PI. XLVII, figs. 2, 2a, 26. 



Shell obese, oblong, rather solid, fleshy-brown in color. Surface 

 glossy; sculptured with irregular growth- wrinkles, which are strength- 

 ened into folds at the suture, which is sharply, irregularly denticulate. 

 Spire short, very obtuse at the summit. Whorls 5^, the first 2\, 

 smooth, next whorl narrower, the following ones rapidly widening, the 

 last half-turn of the suture more obliquely descending. Aperture 

 two-thirds the length of the shell. Columella deeply concave. Length 

 31, diam. 17, length of aperture 21.7 mm. 



Huingo, Michoacan. Types No. 77,179, A. N. S. P., collected by 

 S. N. Rhoads, 1899. 



This species resembles G. indusiata Pfr. in shape, and it may prove 

 to be a variety of that species; but there is no trace of the epidermis 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 771 



described and figiu'ed by Fischer and Crosse, nor of the spiral stria- 

 tion. It seems, therefore, advisable to describe the Huingo form. 



Glandina victoriana n. sp. PI. XLVII, figs. 4, 4a, 46. 



Shell cylindric-oblong, slender, rather thin ; very glossy, fleshy-brown 

 marked at wide intervals with opaque-white longitudinal lines. Sculp- 

 tured throughout with close, regular, smooth and rounded rib-striag, 

 as wide as their intervals, and somewhat denticulating the suture. 

 Spire convex-conic, the apex obtuse. \Vliorls 7, the first 3 smooth. 

 Aperture about half the length of the shell, narrowly acuminate. 

 Outer lip arched forward a little in the middle. Columella concave, 

 oblique below, and truncate as usual. 



Length 37, diam. 11.7, length of aperture 19 mm. 



Length 44, diam. 14, length of aperture 21 mm. 



Canon 4 miles west of Victoria, State of Tamaulipas. Types No. 

 85,918, A. N. S. P., collected by S. N. Rhoads, 1903. 



This species is distinguished by its narrow elongate shape, smooth, 

 regular and close riblets without spiral lines, and the occasional white 

 lines marking temporary growth-arrests. It is related to G. texasiana, 

 but differs in the markedly elongate shape, etc. 



Glandina rhoadsi Pilsbry. PI. XLVII, figs. 3, 3a, 3&. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 395. 



Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon. Types No. 77,172, A. N. S. P. 

 An additional lot, collected by Mr. Rhoads in 1903, shows some varia- 

 tion in the shape of the columella, which may be either nearly straight 

 below or decidedly curved. The darker streaks mentioned in the 

 original description are never conspicuous, and often are seen only on 

 close examination. The striation is not clearly enough indicated in 

 fig. 3. 



Length 54, diam. 19, length of apertm-e 29 mm. 



Length 50, diam. 17, length of aperture 25 mm. 



Length 53, diam. 18.5, length of aperture 26 mm. 



Length 47, diam, 17, length of aperture 25 mm. 

 Glandina delicata n. sp. PL XLVIII, figs. 1, la, 1&. 



Shell pale 3'ellowish-corneous, thin and delicate; fusiform, tapering 

 toward both ends. Surface closely rib-striate, the costulae about as 

 wide as the intervals, and slightly weaker at the base. Spire tapering 

 to a rather small apex, the first 3 to 3^ whorls smooth. Aperture 

 more than half the shell's length, the outer lip thin, but slightly arched 

 forward, receding at base. Columella short and nearly straight, 

 abruptly truncate. 



Length 23, diam. 9, length of aperture 14 mm. 




772 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Tamaiilipas: Canon 4 miles west of Victoria. Types No. 85,917, 

 A. X. S. P., collected by S. N. Rhoads, January 21, 1903. 



A small, sharply striate species. The aperture is larger than in 

 G. delicatula. Another specimen of the ijY>e lot has a somewhat 

 shorter spire, measuring: length 22.5, diam. 9, length of apertm-e 

 13.3 mm. 



Glandina delicata alticola n. subsp. PI. XLVIII, fig. 2. 



Shell smaller and more cylindric than G. delicata, with compara- 

 tively stronger sculptm-e, 6 whorls and decidedly curved columella. 

 Length 17, diam. 6.5, length of aperture 10 mm. 



Diente, near Monterey, State of Xuevo Leon. Types Xo. 77,174, 

 A. N. S. P., collected by S. N. Rhoads. 

 Glandina oblonga tamaulipensis n. subsp. PL XLVII, figs. 6, 6a, 66. 



Shell narrowly oblong, the last whorl somewhat cylindric, spire 

 slowly tapering to a rather large, obtuse apex. Surface very glossy, 

 smooth except for irregularly spaced, rather distinct and unequal, 

 impressed lines in the direction of lines of gro^xih; and the suture is 

 bordered ^^^th fine short and close folds. "WHiorls fully Ih, regularly 

 increasing, the last suture not more obliqueh^ descending. Aperture 

 about half the length of the shell, the outer lip arched forward in the 

 middle, basal lip retracted; columella short, very concave above and 

 convex below. 



Length 15, diam. 5.7, length of aperture 7.5 mm. 



Length 15, diam. 5.3, length of apertm-e 7.3 mm. 



Tamaulipas, in a canon about 4 miles west of Victoria, 'elevation 

 about 3,000 feet. Types Xo. 85,910, A. X. S. P., collected by S. X. 

 Rhoads, January 21, 1903. A single specimen taken at Diente also 

 seems to belong here. 



This form, which was found in abundance, is evidently close to 

 G. ohlonga Pfr.,^ but it is less plicate below the suture and the colmnella 

 is more curved. Fig. 6 represents a young shell. 



Glandina dalli Pilsbry. PI. XLVII, figs. 5, 5a. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 396. 

 Diente, near ^lonterey, Xuevo Leon. Types Xo. 77,173, A. X. S. P. 



Glandina monilifera Pfr. 



Glandina iheringi Pils., Nautilus, XIY, p. 4 (May, 1900), is a s}-nonym of 

 this species. 



Salasiella joaquinae Strebel. 



Several specimens taken at Diente, near Monterey, X. L.. seem refer- 

 able to this species, described from the Province of Vera Cruz. 



^ Biologia Centrali-Amer., Moll., p. 69, PI. 5, fig. 6. 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



773 



Salasiella perpusilla (Pfr.)- Figs. 2, 3. 



Diente, Nuevo Leon. Figured for comparison with the following 

 species. The specimens from Orizaba formerly identified by me as 

 S. perpusilla,^ appear on renewed study with more material to be aS. 

 modesta Pfr. As Strebel has pointed out, S. perpusilla is more convex 

 below the suture than S. modesta; and the same feature distinguishes 

 it from S. minima and S. suhcylindrica. The specimen from Diente 

 show^n in fig. 3 measures: length 3.3, diam. 1.4, length of aperture 1.9 

 mm. 



Salasiella modesta (Pfr.) Figs. 4, 5. 



Glandina {Salasiella) perpusilla Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S91, 

 p. 311. 



Two specimens from Orizaba, an adult and a young one, are figured, 



Fig. 1. Salasiella suhcylindrica . Diente, near Monterey. 

 Figs. 2, 3. Salasiella perpusilla. Diente, near Monterey. 

 Figs. 4, 5. Salasiella modesta. Orizaba. 

 Fig. 6. Salasiella miniina. Orizaba. 



(All figures drawn with camera lucida to the same scale.) 



the latter for comparison with S. minima, the former with S. sid)- 

 cylindrica. The specimen drawn in fig. 4 measures : length 3.7, diam. 

 1.47, length of aperture 2.1 mm. 

 Salasiella minima n. sp. Fig. 6. 



Very minute, cylindric-oblong, almost equally obtuse at both ends ; 

 thin, corneous and transparent, showing the internal partitions 

 through the shell. Surface glossy and but very faintly marked with 

 growth-lines. Whorls 4; suture wdth a narrow margin by transpar- 

 ence. Other characters as usual in the genus. Length 2.6, diam. 1, 

 length of aperture 1.6 mm. 



^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1891, p. 311. 




774 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC, 



Hills around Orizaba, about 500 feet above the to^^-n. Type No. 

 58,070, A. X. S. P., collected by Witmer Stone, of the Heilprin expedi- 

 tion of 1890. 



This smallest species of the genus is not unlike S. modesta in shape, 

 but it is built on a much smaller scale. For comparison I figure a 

 young specimen of S. modesta, the different contour of which maj'- be 

 readily appreciated. 



Salasiella subcylindrica n. sp. Fig. 1. 



Shell distinctly cylindric, the rather long spire tapering to an obtuse 

 apex; corneous-white; smooth except for a few impressed lines fol- 

 lo^^-ing the direction of gro-^i^h-lines. "VMiorls 4f , slightly convex, the 

 last flattened peripherally. Suture margined by transparence. Aper- 

 ture of the usual shape ; outer lip strongly arched forward in the mid- 

 dle, retracted above and below. Coliunella as in other species of the 

 genus. Length 5.6, cliam. 1.8, length of apertiu-e 3.15 mm. 



Diente, near Monterey, State of Nuevo Leon, TS^pes No. 77,169, 

 A. N. S, P., collected by S. N. Rhoads, 1899. 



This species is larger and more cylindric than S. modesta, and the 

 columella is less concave. Its contoiu- is quite unlike that of S. perpu- 

 silla, which also occurred at Diente. 

 Strebelia berendti (Pfr.)- 



Texolo, State of Vera Cruz (Rhoads, 1899). 



Streptostyla novoleonis Pilsbry. PI. XL VIII, figs. 3, 3a. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 397. 



Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon, Types No. 77,153, A. N. S. P. 

 It is rather abundant, and the localit}^ is far to the north of any 

 former record for the genus, 

 Streptostyla edwardsiana C, and F. 



Texolo, Prov. \er& Cruz (Rhoads, 1899). 



Mr. Ancey has recently added two more species of this genus, S. 

 sumichrasti and *S. clavatida.* 

 Pseudosubulina berendti (Pfr.). 



Jalapa, Y. C, in forest. 



Pseudosubulina berendti occidentalis Pils. PI. L, fig. 1. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p, 398. 

 Uruapam, Michoacan, T5TDes No, 77,161, A. N. S. P. 

 Pseudosubulina texoloensis Pils. PI. L, fig. 2. 



Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 398. 

 Texolo, V. C. Types No. 77,104, A. N. S. P. The collection made 

 ' Nautilus, XVII, p. 56. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 775 



by Mr. Rhoads contained several other species of Pseudosuhidind^ not 

 yet identified. 



STENOGYRID^. 

 Opeas octonoides (C, B. Ad.) 



Antigua, V. C. 

 Opeas micra (Orb.)- 

 Antigua, Y. C. 

 Opeas rhoadsae Pils. PI. L, fig. 4. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S99, p. 399. 

 Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon. Types Xo. 77,103, A. X. S. P. 

 The specimen figured measures 3.1 x .7 mm. 



Opeas odiosum Pils. PI. L, fig. 3. 



Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1S99, p. 399. 

 Patzcuaro, Michoacan. Types Xo. 77,100, A. X". S. P. 



Opeas patzcuarense Pils. PI. L, fig. 5. 



Patzcuaro, Michoacan. Types Xo. 77,151, A. X". S. P. 



The specimen figured measures length 3.35, diam. .9 mm. 



^Ir. Rhoads also collected about a dozen species of minute Steno- 

 gyroid snails not yet identified, several of them found in some abund- 

 ance. 



Spiraxis uriiapamensis Pils. PI. L, fig. 9 and the fig. between 9 and 10. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 398. 

 Uruapam, Michoacan. Types X'^o. 77,160, A. X'. S. P. 



Spiraxis (1) borealis n. sp. PI. L, figs. 6, 6a. 



Shell wholly imperforate, very slender and long, regularly tapering 

 to the obtuse summit, thin, whitish-corneous. Sculptured with close 

 vertical thread-like riblets about half as wide as the intervals, or a 

 little more crowded. Whorls 12, convex, separated by deep sutures. 

 Aperture small, ovate, the lip thin and simple; columella thin, concave, 

 passing without angle or notch into the basal margin. Length 10, 

 diam. 2, length of aperture 2 mm. 



Diente, near Monterey, State of X^uevo Leon. Types Xo. 77,166, 

 A. X. S. P. 



This species agrees fairly well with the description of ;S. acus Shuttl., 

 from Cordova, Y. C, except in the smaller size. That species has not 

 been figured. In sculpture S. borealis is not unlike S. intermedius 

 Strebel. The generic position is uncertain. Six specimens taken. 

 Leptinaria mexicana (Pfr.). 



Texolo, Y. C. 




776 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Leptinaria tamaulipensis n. sp. PI. L, fig. 8. 



Shell perforate, ovate-conic, pale yellowish-corneous. Surface finelj^ 

 and closely, irregularly and weakly striate; glossy. Spire straightly 

 conic, the apex quite obtuse. Whorls 5^, convex. Aperture less than 

 half the total length. Columella vertical, reflexed, with a rather 

 small fold in the middle. No parietal lamella. Length 6.8, diam. 

 3.7 mm. 



Tamaulipas, in a canon abovit 4 miles west of Victoria, elevation 

 about 3,000 feet. Types No. 85,909, A. N. S. P., collected by Mr. S. N. 

 Rhoads, January 21, 1903. 



This species is related to L. mexicana and L. martensi, but differs 

 from both in wanting spaced riblets. No Leptinaria has hitherto been 

 reported from north of Misantla, V. C, so that the range of the genus 

 northward is greatly extended by the discovery of this species. Five 

 specimens were found. 



SUCCINEID^. 



Succinea tlalpamensis Pilsbry. PI. XLVIII. figs. 4, 4a. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 401. 

 Near Tlalpam, State of Mexico. Types No. 77,207, A. N. S. P. 

 The figures show the extremes of variation in the type lot. 



Succinea tlalpamensis cuitseana Pils. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 401. 

 Lake Cuitseo, near Huingo, Michoacan. Types No. 77,208, A. N. 

 S. P. 



Succinea virgata Marts. 



Texolo, State of Vera Cruz. Many of the shells want the white rays 

 entirely, and in some others they appear only on the spire. 



AURICULID^. 



Carychium exiguum mexicanum Pils. 



Texolo, State of Vera Cruz, and Diente, near i\Ionterey, State of 

 Nuevo Leon. 



LIMN^ID^. 

 Limnsea attenuata Say. 



Tlalpam, near the City of IMexico. 

 Limnaea columella Say. 



Lake near Uruapam, State of Michoacan. Pale yellowish-corneous 

 specimens, about the size of var. championi Marts., but somewhat 

 shorter, and of lighter color. The spiral sculpture is well developed 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 777 



and typical. The species has not before been reported from this part 

 of Mexico. 



Limnaea desidiosa Say. 



Saltillo, State of Coahuila. The specimens are small, reaching a 

 length of only 7.3 mm., but they seem to me to be typical in all other 

 characters. The species is new to Mexico. 



Limnaea palmeri Dall. 



Biologia Cent. Amer., Moll., p. 377. 

 This species has been removed from the LimnceidcB by Dall, who 

 refers it to the marine genus Recluzia. 



Planorbis tenuis Dkr. 

 Tlalpam, State of Mexico, and Acambaro, State of Guanajuata. 



Planorbis tenuis exaggeratus Marts. 



Lake Patzcuaro, Michoacan. A large series collected by ^Ir. Rhoads 

 shows the characters of this subspecies to be remarkably constant. 

 No P. tenuis were found in the lake. 

 Planorbis liebmanni Dkr. 



Topo Chico, near ^lontere}', Nuevo Leon. 



ANCYLIDiE. 

 Ancylus excentricus Morelet. 



Lake La Prassa, near Uruapam, State of Michoacan. 



Ancylus papillaris Martens. 



L'ruapam, Michoacan; Tlalpam, State of Mexico; Monterey, Nuevo 

 Leon. This gives this well-characterized species a wide distribution. 

 It has heretofore been known onl}' from Rio Ameca, State of Jalisco. 



An Ancylus similar to haldemani was taken at Monterey, one speci- 

 men. 



PHYSID^. 

 Physa osculans Hald. 



Tlalpam, State of Mexico; and in the State of Michoacan at Morelia; 

 Lake La Prassa, near LTuapam; Lake Cuitseo, near Huingo; also 

 from a hot spring near the same place, and a ditch near Lake Patz- 

 cuaro. Acambaro, State of Guanajuata. 



Physa osculans rhyssa Pils. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 40L 

 This form is much smaller than P. o. plicata C. and Y. Saltillo, 

 Coahuila, and Topo Chico, near ^lonterey, N. L. 




778 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. 



Physa osculans patzcuarensis Pils. 



Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1S91, p. 323, PI. XV, fig. 5. 

 Physa mexirana var. coriiformis Strebel. Beitrag I, p. 52 (1S73), Not Physa 

 coniformis Tr^'^on (1866). 



Lake Patzciiaro (Rhoacls, 1899). Numerous specimens were taken 

 like the types collected by Heilprin, At the time I described the latter 

 I was not aware of the previous description of the same form b}' 

 Strebel. He used a preoccupied name which laid in ambush in a dense 

 thicket of text. 

 Physa berendti Dkr. 



Texolo and near Jalapa, State of Vera Cruz. 



Physa lacustris Clessin. 



At Texolo, State of ^^era Cruz, in a small stagnant pond, and under a 

 cascade, a very short -spired Physa occurred which seems identical with 

 Clcssin's species. The specimens from the small pond reach a length 

 of 10 mm., and are much eroded, having lost most of the cuticle. 

 Those from under the cascade are 6 to 7^ mm. long, and more globose. 

 It seems to be a well-marked species. 



Clessin gives " Centralamerika, See Coatcpeque," as the locality. 

 There is a Coatepeque in western Guatemala; but Dr. von jMartens saj's 

 "E. Mexico: Lake Coatepec," probably the correct localit}'. 



VALVATID^. 



Valvata humeralis Say. PL LII, figs. 9, 12, 12a. 



V. hu77i€raJis Saj', N. H. Diss., II, 244, Martens, Biologia Cent. Amer.. 



Moll., p. 426. 

 V. humeralis Say (Jiumerosa Say), Strebel, Beitrag I, p. 33, PI. 4, fig. 42 (not 



good). 

 T*. strebeli Crosse and Fischer, Miss. Scient. au Mex., MoU., II, p. 304 (based 



upon preceding reference) . 



Say's type specimen is here drawn (figs. 12, 12a). It agrees with 

 specimens before me from the city of [Mexico (Heilprin expedition), 

 and from Lake Xochimilco (fig. 9) in the valley of Mexico^ (E. D. Cope, 

 1885). The figures given by Strebel show a raised, acute apex, but as 

 he expressty states that the apex is obtuse, I suppose these figures to 

 be incorrectly drawn. It may be added that Strebel's description 

 agrees fully with some specimens of V. humeralis. This being the case 

 V. strebeli C. and F,, based solely upon Strebel's account, will become a 

 pure synonym of V. humeralis. Prof. v. Martens has already treated 

 it as a variety of that species. It may further be noted that Messrs, 

 Crosse and Fischer had seen neither V. humeralis nor the form they 



* Lake Xochimilco is the west end of I-ake Clialco, from which it has been 

 artificially separated. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 779 



call V. streheli, but base their conclusions upon the published descrip- 

 tions onh^ V. hiimeralis varies somewhat in the amount of flattening 

 below the suture, but that character is always noticeable, and the early 

 whorls often appear angular in the middle on account of it. The 

 striation is rather irregularly developed, but always low, never sharp 

 as in V. sincera. Some specimens show a few very low subobsolete 

 spiral cords or threads near the periphery of the last whorl, but these 

 are exceptional. The base is indistinctly subangular around the um- 

 bilicus. ]\Ieasurements are as follows: 



Alt. 4.2, diam. 5.2 mm., whorls 3f (L. Xochimilco). 



Alt. 4, diam. 5 mm., whorls 3+ to 3f (Strebel). 



Alt. 3.2, diam. 4.7 mm., whorls 3^ (L. Xochimilco). 



Alt. 3, diam. 4 mm., whorls 3^ (Say's type). 



I have treated this species at some length, because, with the excep- 

 tion of Strebel, none of the writers upon this fauna have seen specimens 

 of Valvata from Mexico. 



Valvata humeralis pilsbryi Martens. PL LII, figs. 5, 5a. 



Valvata humeraJis, specimens from Lake Patzcuaro, Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., 1891, p. 326. 

 Valvata humeralis var. pilsbryi Martens, Biologia, p. 427, September, 1899 



(based upon the preceding reference). 

 Valvata humeralis var. patzcuarensis Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1899, p. 392 (October 5, 1899). 



This form is smoother and more elevated than V. Inmieralis, but still 

 has an obtuse summit; the subsutural flattening of that species, while 

 noticeable on the spire of this, is minimized on the last whorl; and, 

 finally, the umbilicus is narrower, in specimens of the same diameter. 



Alt. 5.1, diam. 5 mm., whorls slightly over 4. 



Alt. 4.3, diam. 5 mm., whorls 3f . 



Alt. 4, diam. 4 m.m., whorls 3|. 



Lake Patzcuaro, Michoacan. Several hundred specimens were 

 taken by Mr. Rhoads in 1899. All were collected dead but in good 

 condition, covered with a light brown cuticle. A few of the freshest are 

 of a rather bright green color. 



Types of this variety are No. 61,444, A. N. S. P., collected by Heil- 

 prin and Baker in 1890. The varietal name 'patzcuarensis was proposed 

 by me before Prof, von Martens' work on the same form reached 

 America, but it is apparently of later date, if the signature lines of the 

 Biologia indicate the actual dates of publication. 




780 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



AMNIOOLID^. 

 Pyrgulopsis patzcuarensis Pilsbry. PL LII, figs. 6, 7, S. 



The Nautilus, V, p. 9, May, 1891 ; Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1S91, p. 330, 



PI. 15, fig. 8. 

 Mission Scient. au Hex., Moll., II, p. 277. H 



Lake Patzcuaro, Michoacan, the type locality. This was originally 

 described from mutilated examplas. A series of over 60 specimens 

 taken by Mr. Rhoads in 1899 enables me to complete the description 

 and to illustrate perfect shells. All are emptj^ shells, and I am there- 

 fore unable to examine the dentition, to ascertain wiiether the species 

 is a true Pyrgulopsis or a Potamopyrgus. 



All of the shells agree in having the first two whorls smooth and con- 

 vex. Then a strong median keel sets in, continuing 2^ or more whorls, 

 and there is also a minor keel which may be \dsible just .above the 

 suture or concealed by the next whorl. Both keels asually become 

 Aveaker, mere angles on the last whorl or more, or they may completely 

 disappear, leaving the whorl rounded. The keel is always even and 

 smooth. There are nearly 7 whorls in full-growTi shells. The aperture 

 is regularly ovate; the outer lip is sinuous, being retracted above. 

 The largest shell measures, length 7.7, diam. 3.2 mm. 



I have seen some thousands of specimens of Potamopyrgus from Texas, 

 Mexico and Central America, Venezuela and the West Indies, embrac- 

 ing a great variety of forms; but I have not seen this particular type 

 of shell except from Lake Patzcuaro. It seems to me to be a reason- 

 ably distinct species. The form called Amnicola coronata yar. U7ii- 

 carinata by von ]\Iartens* is not an uncommon variation in the spinose 

 Potamopyrgus, and like the smooth, ecarinate phase, it is not a racial 

 or subspecific modification, nor is it sexual, for I have found the 

 unborn yoimg in smooth, carinate and spinose shells, when opening 

 them for the radulse. American species of Potamopyrgus are dimorphic 

 or trimorphic, like some butterflies, owls, etc. 



The genus Potamopyrgus is amply distinguished from Amnicola by 

 its viviparous reproduction, Amnicola being oviparous. I fail to see 

 the advantage of lumping them as some recent authors have done. 



Chondropoma martensianum Pilsbry. PI. LII, figs. 4, 4a. 

 Nautilus, XIII, p. 140 (April, 1900). 



Mountains of Poana, Tabasco (Jose N. Rovirosa). Illustrations 

 are now given of the type of this species, which has not before been 

 figured. 



^ Biologia, p. 433, September, 1899. 




]903.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 781 



Amnicola panamensis Tryon. PI. LII, fig. 11. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, p. 146. 



The type of this species is a single specimen from Panama, collected 

 by Capt. Field, U. S. N. It is of the whitish-corneous color of A. 

 cincinnatiensis Anth., has 4 J whorls which are very convex below the 

 sutures, and the axis is perforate. It is extremely similar to A. cin- 

 cinnatiensis, but differs in being only about half the size of well-grown 

 examples of that species. Length 3.4, diam. 2.7, longest axis of aper- 

 ture 1.8 mm.^ 



An entirely different species collected by Prof. Ralph Tate in Nica- 

 ragua was subsequently referred to A. panamensis, and this erroneous 

 extension of the range of the species has naturally been repeated in 

 the Biologia. 



Amnicola tryoni n. sp. PL LU, fig. 10. 



Amnicola jpanamensis Tryon, Tate, American Journal of Conchology, V, 

 p. 153. 



Shell openly perforate, ovate-conic, thin, corneous and somewhat 

 translucent, the surface smooth, scarcely showing growth striae. Spire 

 conic, the apex slightly obtuse. Whorls 4J, those of the spire very 

 convex below the suture, the last whorl not swollen there. The aper- 

 ture is of the usual ovate contour, subangular above; peristome adnate 

 to the preceding whorl for a short distance above. Length 2.3, diam. 

 1.6, longest axis of aperture 1.2 mm. 



Nicaragua, at the roots of plants in a swampy pool near Javali, 

 in the Chontales district, at an elevation of 1750 feet. Types No. 

 58.066, A. N. S. P., collected by Ralph Tate. 



The specimens are encrusted with a ferruginous deposit, so thick as 

 to materially alter the shape of the shell. The one figured has been 

 cleaned. It seems to be closely related to A. guatemalensis Crosse and 

 Fischer,^ from Lake Amatitlan; but A. tryoni is a smaller species, with 

 more convex whorls, smoother surface and a more prominent spire. .1 . 

 guatemalensis is not known to me by specimens, A. stolli Martens^ 

 seems also to belong to the same group of species, but it is more conic 

 than the others mentioned above, the last whorl being dilated periph- 

 erally, according to Prof, von Martens' figures. 



HELICINIDiE. 

 Helicina turbinata Wiegm. 



Antigua, State of Vera Cruz. 



" I have every reason to believe thi.s specimen, marked in Tryon's ovn\ hand, 

 to be the original type, aUhough it does not agree with the original measure- 

 ments. 



"^ Miss. Scient. Mex., Moll., II, p. 264. 



" Biologia Centr. Amer., Moll., p. 645. 




782 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Helicina suocincta Martens. 



Texolo, V. C. 



Helicina orbiculata tropica Jan. 



Monterey, State of Nuevo Leon. Similar to Texan examples. 



Helicina fragilis Morel. 



Antigua, State of Vera Cruz. 



Helicina lirata Pfr. 



Antigua, V. C. 

 Helicina sowerbyana Pfr. PI. LIV, figs. 7, 8. 



Canon 4 miles west of Victoria, Tamaulipas. Twelve specimens 

 of this fine species, measuring 18 to 21 mm. diam., were taken, the 

 first since the original lot many years ago. I am much inclined to 

 doubt the locality "Guatemala" of the Cimiingian type specimen, as 

 the snails of that country are mainly of different species from those of 

 Tamaulipas, and no specimens of this large and conspicuous species 

 have been found in the intermediate territory, part of which is the 

 most fully explored portion of Mexico. H. sowerbyana probably does 

 not range south as far as the State of Vera Cruz. The rather con- 

 spicuous spiral sculpture does not show in the photographic figures. 



Helicina zephyrina Duel. 



Texolo, at the falls. State of Vera Cruz. 

 Helicina zephiyrina var. dientensis n. v. 



Similar to zephyrina, except that the body-whorl is more depressed 

 and the base less convex. 



Alt. 14.5, diam. 11 mm. 



Alt. 12, diam. 9.5 mm. 



Alt. 14.3, diam. 11.4 mm. 



Diente, near Monterey, N. L. Types No. 77,238, A. N. S. P. 



Trochatella simpsoni Ancey. PI. XLIX, fig. 4. 

 Aimales de Malacologie, II, p. 253. 

 One of the original specimens, from the series of Utilla shells pre- 

 sented by Mr. C. T. Simpson, is figured. This is the only Trochatella 

 known from the mainland of Mexico or Central America or Lslands 

 adjacent thereto. It was collected on Utilla Island, off the north 

 coast of Honduras, by Mr. Simpson. The shell figured measures 2.6 

 mm. diam. and alt. 



Scbasiclieila fragilis Pilsbry. PI. LI, figs. 7, 7a. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 391. 

 Diente, near Monterey, State of Nuevo Leon. Tvpes No. 77,237, 

 A. N. S. P. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7S3 



Since the publication of my description I have obtained specimens 

 of S. minuscula (Pfr.), one of which is figured for comparison (PI. LI, 

 fig. 3). S. fragilis is much more depressed than minuscula, with more 

 distinct spiral lines when the hairs are rubbed off. The two species 

 are cpiite distinct. 



Schasicheila vanattai Pils. PI. LI, figs. 5, 5a. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 391. 



Same locality as the preceding, with which it occurred. Readily 

 distinguished by the strong peripheral angle. The sinus is slightly 

 deeper than in S. frogilis. 

 Schasicheila vanattai tricostata subsp. nov. PI. LI, fig. 4. 



Last whorl with three large obtuse rounded carinse or spiral ribs, 

 the surface concave between them and below the lower one ; cuticular 

 spirals weakly developed. Pale yellowish-corneous. Whorls 3^-. Alt. 

 3.7, diam. 4.5 mm. 



Canon 4 miles west of Victoria, Tamaulipas. T^^pe Xo. 85,908, 

 A. N. S. P. 



One adult and one immature specimen collected. In the absence of 

 a series sufficient to show whether the remarkable features above de- 

 scribed are constant, I prefer to rank this as a variety of S. vanattai. 

 No other known Schasicheila has spiral ridges and sulci of this kind. 



Schasicheila hidalgoana Dall. PI. LI, figs. 8, 8a. 



Schazicheila hidalgoana Dall., Nautilus, XI, p. 62. 



Shell depressed, conoidal above, convex beneath, strongly angular 

 at the periphery. Yellowish-corneous, usually pink toward the apex, 

 under a thin brown cuticle, which is ver}- densely and minutely rough- 

 ened by close cuticular spiral threads, conspicuously longer ones fring- 

 ing the peripheiy. These cuticular processes hold sufficient dirt to 

 make the whole surface of fresh shells blackish. Under the cuticle 

 the surface is glossy, striatulate obliquely, and densely striate spirally. 

 Whorls 4h, slightly con-s'ex, the intermediate ones with an impression 

 above the suture. Last whorl wide, strongly angular peripherally, 

 a little impressed in the middle of the base. Aperture of the usual 

 half-rotund shape, the outer lip narrowly expanded, with a deep tri- 

 angular excision or notch above. Umbilical pad small and somewhat 

 sunken. Operculum with processes projecting beyond the lip at both 

 base and upper sinus; bluish gray, indistinctly roughened externally. 



Alt. 9, diam. 14 mm. 



Alt. 8.7, diam. 12.3 mm. 



Canon 4 miles west of Victoria, State of Tamaulipas. No. 85,919, 

 A. N. S. P., collected by S. N. Rhoads, 1903. 




784 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



A large series was collected. It resembles S. vanaftai in shape, but 

 is about double the linear dimensions of that species, and has a propor- 

 tionally larger lip notch or sinus. In S. nicoleti the periphery is less 

 strongly angular, the spiral lirse more widely spaced and the operculum 

 sharply granulose externally. The specimens have been compared by 

 Prof. W. H. Dall with, the unique type of his S. hidalgocma from Encar- 

 nacion, Hidalgo, and pronounced to be identical. Since that species 

 was described from a dead, bleached specimen, I have given a new 

 description of a fresh shell, and figures of a specimen from near 

 Victoria. 



SPH^RIID^. 



Crosse and Fischer have shown that the species of Spkccrium known 

 from ]\Iexico fall into three subgenera: SpJueriuni s. str., MuscuUiwi 

 Link (Calyculina Cless.), and Eupera Bgt. The third group has been 

 raised by von Martens to generic rank. No species of Eupera was taken 

 by ]\Ir. Rhoads. but the other groups mentioned are represented in his 

 collection by numerous forms, the study of which necessitates some 

 revision of the group. 



The following Mexican and Central American species have been 

 admitted in the Biologia Centrali Americana: 



S. triangvlare Say. 



S. suhtransversum Pme. 



S. martensi Pils. 



S. luridum Marts. 



S. costoricanum ]\Iarts. 



The last-mentioned species is not known to me by specimens. From 

 the description and figures it seems to be very different from the others, 

 and a good deal like a PisicUiwi. 



The other Mexican species are very well characterized and readily 

 distinguishable. They may be tabulated as follows: 



Q — Shell very thin and fragile, delicately striate ; beaks usually showing 

 a distinctly defined prodissoconch. 

 h. — Shell oblong, the alt. about three-fourths the length, diam. 



half the length or less, S. subtransverstim. 



h'. — Shell subrotund, the alt. exceeding three-fourths the length, 



diam. more than half the length, . . . . S. novoleonis. 



a' . — Shell varying from thin to moderately strong, striate or costulate, 



without distinct prodissoconch. 



6. — Beaks regularly costulate. Alt. more than three-fourths the 



length ; diam. decidedly over half the length ; hinge-line more 



arcuate than the basal margin; solid, with stout lateral 



teeth and rather coarse sculpture, . . . S. triangularc. 




1903 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 785 



b'. — Beak» nearly smooth; alt. about three-quarters and diam. 

 about one-half the length of the shell; basal and hinge 

 margins about equally arcuate; finely striate. 

 c. — Subequilateral, the two ends almost equally rounded; 

 olivaceous-gray, with chestnut beaks and usually yel- 

 low basal margin, S. jalapensis. 



c' . — Inequilateral, the posterior end noticeably wider; yellow, 

 becoming fleshy-gray at the beaks; thinner, 



&. viartensi. 

 Sphaerium triangulare (Say). PI. LIU, figs. 4, 4a. 



Figures are here given of one of the two type specimens of this species 

 (PL LIII, figs. 4, 4a). It measures, length 13, alt. 10.3 mm., agree- 

 ing with Say's measurements.^" The sculpture of concentric ridges or 

 coarse strise is strong and a little irregular. The heaks are strongly^ 

 regularly sculptured, as in S. striatinum. This is a very characteristic 

 feature of the species. The beaks are nearly median; the dorsal mar- 

 gin of the valve is much more arcuate than the ventral, and the anterior 

 end tapers somewhat, the posterior being broadly rounded. The 

 anterior and posterior lateral teeth are of about equal length, single in 

 the left, double in the right valve. The anterior pair is decidedly 

 heavier than the posterior, the latter being finely crenulated. 



The tj^pes are both dead, and have lost the cuticle, but are otherwise 

 well preserved. They are probably from one of the lakes near the City 

 of Mexico, as there is a tray of specimens in the collection exactly like 

 them and in the same condition, from Lake Texcoco. 



In Lake Patzcuaro, Michoacan, the shells are smaller but somewhat 

 thicker (PI. LIII, figs. 3, 3a; PI. LIV, fig. 2). The cuticle is very 

 glossy, bright greenish-yellow with some gray streaks, or gray-brown 

 with or without a yellow zone below. Sculpture as already described,, 

 but in these fresh shells some indistinct radii are visible. The beaks 

 arc large and full. The ligament, though largely immersed, is conspicu- 

 ous externalh^ There is a narrow, slightly sunken escutcheon and a 

 wide, short, lunule bounded by faintly impressed lines. The teeth 

 (PI. ITI, fig. 3, right valve) of this form are a trifle heavier than in 

 typical S. triangulare, but otherwise similar. On the right valve the 

 lower laterals seem to be borne on ridges running out from under the 

 hinge-plate. They are very short, high and triangular. Length 11.5, 

 alt. 9, diam. 7 mm. 



^^ Prime expressed doubt about the specific identity of the two specimens 

 given to the Academy by Mrs. Say after Say's death, solely because the shell is 

 not especially triangular; but since these specimens agree completely with the 

 original description and measurements, and were labeled by Say, there seems 

 to be no good reason for doubting their authenticity. 



.50 




786 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Specimens from Acambaro, State of Guanajuato,, are similar, two 

 measm-ing: length 12. alt. 9, diam. 7 mm., and 10.2, 8, 6 mm. 



The species described from Ameca, Jalisco, under the name S. 

 luridiim Marts." seems to be very near S. triangulare, if not actually 

 identical therewith. 



Sphaerium martensi Pilsbry. PI. LIII, figs. 2, 2a ; PI. LIV, fig. 4. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 401, 1899. Biologia, p. 552. 



When cleaned of the ferrous deposit which coats this shell, it is light 

 yellow, becoming pinkish-gray in the neighborhood of the beaks. The 

 sculptm-e is a very fine, sharp striation over the lower two-thirds, the 

 beaks being nearly smooth, with minute, glossy tips, sometimes 

 slightl}^ marked off by a barely perceptible depression. The differ- 

 entiation of the prodissoconch seems hardly tangible enough to war- 

 rant a reference of the species to the subgenus Miisculium, and, 

 moreover, the shell while thin is not fragile as in Muscidium. 



The cardinals are double in the right valve (PI. LII, fig. 2), as 

 well as the laterals. The latter are rather small and low, and not 

 crenulate. In the left valve the lateral teeth are single. The shell 

 is less solid than S. triangulare, but decidedly stronger than S. sub- 

 transversimi. It does not seem very closely related to any other 

 species. Length 15.6, alt. 11, diam. 7.7 mm. 



Knowai onh^ from the type locality, Tzintzuntzan, Lake Patzcuaro, 

 State of ]\Iichoacan. 

 Sphaerium jalapensis n. sp. PI. LIII, figs. 1, la; PI. LIV, fig. 3. 



Shell oval, somewhat compressed, the diameter about half the 

 length; ends almost equally rounded, but the anterior is a little more 

 narrowly so; upper and basal margins equally arcuate; beaks pro- 

 jecting but sHghtly above the dorsal margin; glossy, finely, irregularly 

 striate, and very minuteh^ rugose or subgranulate. There are also 

 obscure radii visible in a suitable light. Olivaceous-gra}' with a yellow 

 border, and fully adult shells are bright chestnut-colored toward the 

 eroded apices. Escutcheon narrow, lanceolate and perceptibly flat- 

 tened or excavated; km ule indistinct. Interior bluish-white. 



Right valve (PI. LII, fig, la) with a small, obhque, bifid anterior 

 and minute posterior cardinal tooth; anterior laterals double, strong, 

 elevated and triangular; posterior laterals double, more slender and 

 crenulate. Left valve (PI. LII, fig. 1) with a bifid posterior and 

 small simple anterior cardinal; laterals single, the anterior short, high 

 and triangular; posterior lateral single, more compressed. 

 ^^ Biologia Centr. Amer., MoU., p. 552. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 787 



Length 14.5, alt. 11, diam. 7.2 mm. 



Length 13.2, alt. 10, diam. 6.4 mm. 



Pond at Jalapa, State of Vera Cruz. Types No. 77,191, A. N. S. P., 

 collected by S. N. Rhoads, 1899. 



This species is most nearly related to S. sulcatum (Lam.), but it 

 differs in the following respects. S. jalapensis is more compressed and 

 greater in altitude ; it is more finely sculptured and more glossy. The 

 lateral teeth are less elevated. The outline of S. jalapensis is less 

 angular than that of S. rhomboideum. S. luridum Martens, from the 

 State of Jalisco, is much smaller, about the size of a half-grown speci- 

 men of this species. The teeth are figm'ed as very stout, but from the 

 description they would seem to be not very unlike those of S. jalapensis. 

 S. fabale is at once distinguished from all these species by its broad, 

 peculiarly compressed shape. 



In the specimen figured (PI. LII, figs. 1, la) the anterior lateral 

 teeth are reversed. In all others examined they are as described above. 



Sphaerium (Musculium) subtransversum Prime. PI. LIII, figs. 6, 6a, 66; PI. LIV, fig. 5. 



Prime, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1860, p. 322; Monogr. Am. Corbiculidse, 

 p. 62; Sowerby, ia Conch. Icon., XX, f. 38. Not *S. subtransversum 

 Crosse and Fischer, Moll. Mex., II, 652. 



Tlalpam, State of Mexico; Morelia, Michoacan (Rhoads). 



This is an elongate, fragile species with distinctly " calyculate " beaks ; 

 gray, with a yellow zone below. The surface is shining and very finely 

 delicately striate. The upper and lower margins are about equally ar- 

 cuate, and the anterior end is more tapering than the wider posterior 

 end. The right valve has two diverging cardinal teeth and double 

 laterals (fig. 6a) ; the left valve has a single cardinal and single laterals. 

 The large specimen figured, from Tlalpam, measures: length 15, alt. 

 10.8, diam. 7.5 mm., but most of the lot are smaller, length about 

 11 mm. An average shell from Morelia measures: length 9.3, alt. 7, 

 diam. 4.2 mm. 



In my opinion the figures given by Crosse and Fischer do not repre- 

 sent this species. The dimensions given by Prime are: length .30, 

 alt. .20, diam. .10 inch. These must have been taken from a quite 

 yoimg shell, but certainly it was lower and more compressed than 

 Crosse and Fischer's subtransversum, which measured: length 10.5, 

 alt. 8.5, diam. 6 mm. The figure given l^y Sowerby, while too small to 

 show any details, yet agrees with Prime's description in contour. 

 Sphaerium (Musculium) novoleonis n. sp. PI. LIII, figs. 5, 5a, 56; PI. LIV, fig. 6. 



Shell fragile, short and rather globose, the diameter slightly more 

 than lialf the length; thin; anterior end rounded, posterior end wider, 




788 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



obliquely subtruncate ; upper and lower margins subequally arcuate; 

 beaks full and prominent, "^^-ith rather indistinct ''caps"; lunule and 

 escutcheon are not differentiated. Smface glossy, finely and rather 

 obsoletely striate. Yellowish-gray. Interior bluish-white. Right 

 valve (PI. LIII, fig. 5), with two small diverging cardinal teeth, and 

 double anterior and posterior laterals, the former stouter. Left valve 

 with the cardinal tooth small, the laterals single. 



Length 11, alt. 9, diam. 6 mm. 



]\[onterey. State of Nuevo Leon. Types No. 77,190, A. X. S. P., col- 

 lected by S. N. Rhoads, 1899. 



This species is similar to S. partumeiwn in general characters. The 

 beaks are not distinctly capped as in that species, and the anterior 

 lateral teeth are shorter and much closer to the cardinal. 



In my opinion the shells figm-ed by Crosse and Fischer as S. sub- 

 transversum belong to this species. 



Pisidium abditum Hald. 



Lake Prassa, near Uruapam, and Tlalpam, State of Mexico; Texolo, 

 State of Vera Cruz (Rhoads); also Orizaba, V. C. (Heilprin expedi- 

 tion). These localities go far to connect the Central American range 

 given by v. Martens with the range of the species in the United States. 



UNIONID^. 

 TJnio plexus Conrad. 



Vera Cruz, State of Vera Cruz. 



Lampsilis umbrosus (Lea). 



Vera Cruz, V. C. 



Lampsilis rovirosai Pils. PI. LIV, figs, l, la. 

 NautUus, Xni, p. 140 (AprU, 1900). 

 Laguna de Atasta, near San Juan Bautista, State of Tabasco, col- 

 lected by Sr. Ing. D. Jose X. Rovirosa, a natm-alist of Tal^asco, espe- 

 cially interested in botany, whose death, December 23, 1901, I regret 

 to record. The figiues are natural size, from photographs of the type, 

 Xo. 58,916, A. X. S. P. 



Referexce TO Plates XLVII-LIV. 



Plates XLVII to LIII were drawn with catnera lucida by 

 Miss Helen Winchester; plate LIV was repro- 

 duced from photographs. 



Plate XLVII, Figs. 1, la — Glandina miclwacanensis Pils. 

 Fig. \b. — New-born young of the same. 

 Figs. 2, 2a, 2b. — Glandina huingensis Pils. 

 Figs. 3, 3a, 36. — Glandina rhoadsi Pils. 

 Figs. 4, 4a, 46. — Glandina victoriana Pils. 

 Figs. .5, 5a. — Glandina dalli Pils. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 789 



Fig. 6. — Glandina ohlonga tamaulipensis Pils., young shell. 

 Figs. 6a, 66. — Glandina ohlonga tamaulipensis Pils. 



Plate XLVIII, Figs. 1, la, 1&. — Glandina delicata Pils. 

 Fig. 2. — Glandina delicata alticola Pils. 

 Figs. 3, 3a. — Streptostyla novoleonis Pils. 

 Figs. 4, 4a. — Succinea tlalpamensis Pils. 

 Figs. 5, 5a, 5b. — Omphalina montereyensis vidoriana Pils. 

 Figs. 6, 6a, 66. — Omphalina montereyensis Pils. 

 Figs. 7, 7a, 76. — Omphalina martensiana Pils. 



Plate XLIX, Figs. 1, la, 16. — Pyramidula vidoriana Pils. 

 Figs. 2, 2o. — Thysanophora proxima Pils. 

 Figs. 3, 3a, 36. — Thysanophora tatei Pils. 

 Fig. 4. — Trochatella simpsoni Anc. Topotype. 

 Figs. 5, 5a, 56. — Guppya micra Pils. 

 Figs. 6, 6a. — Thysanophora fischeri Pils. 



Plate L, Fig. 1. — Pseudosubulina occidentalis Pils. 

 Fig. 2. — Pseudosubulina texoloensis Pils. 

 Fig. 3. — Opeas odiosum Pils. 

 Fig. 4. — Opeas rhoadsoe Pils. 

 Fig. 5. — Opeas patzcuarense Pils. 

 Figs. 6, 6a. — Spiraxis(?) borealis Pils. 

 Figs. 7, 7a. — Bifidaria prototypus Pils. 

 Fig. 8. — Leptinaria tamaulipensis Pils. 

 Figs. 9, 9a. — Spiraxis uruapamensis Pils. 

 Figs. 10, 10a. — Epirobia mirabilis Pils. 



Plate LI, Figs. 1, la, 16. — Polygyra suprazonata Pils. 

 Figs. 2, 2a, 26. — Polygyra rhoadsi Pils. 

 Fig. 3. — Schasicheila minuscula Pfr. 

 Fig. 4. — Schasicheila vanattai tricostata Pils. 

 Figs. 5, 5a. — Schasicheila vanattai Pils. 

 Figs. 6, 6a. — Praticolella strebeliana Pils. 

 Figs. 7, 7a. — Schasicheila fragilis Pils. 

 Figs. 8, 8a. — Schasicheila hidalgoana Dall. 



Plate LII, Fig. 1. — Sphoerium jalapense Pils., left valve; la, right valve. An- 

 terior teeth are reversed in this specimen. 

 Fig. 2. — Sphcerium martensi Pils. Right valve. 



Fig. 3. — Sphoerium triangulare Say. Right valve. Lake Patzcuaro. 

 Figs. 4, 4a. — Chondropoma martensianum Pils. 

 Figs. 5, 5a. — Valvata humeralis pilsbryi Marts. 

 Figs. 6, 7, 8. — Pyrgulopsis patzcuarensis Pils. 

 Fig. 9. — Valvata humeralis. Lake Xochimileo. 

 Fig. 10. — Amnicola tryoni Pils. 



Fig. 11. — Amnicola panamensis Tryon. Type specimen. 

 Fig. 12, 12a. — Valvata humeralis Say. Tjrpe specimen. 



Plate LIII, Figs. 1, la. — Sphoerium jalapense Pils. 

 Figs. 2, 2a.— Sphcerium martensi Pils. 



Figs. 3, 3a. — Sphoerium triangulare Say. Lake Patzcuaro. 

 Figs. 4, 4a. — Sphoerium triangulare Say. Type specimen. 

 Figs. 5, 5a, 56. — Sphoerium novoleonis Pils. 

 Figs. 6, 6a, 66. — Sphoerium subtransversum Prime. 



Plate LIV. — Figs. 1, la. — Lampsilis rovirosai Pils. 



Fig. 2. — Sphoerium triangulare Say. Lake Patzcuaro. 



Fig. 3. — Sphcerium jalapensis Pils. 



Fig. 4. — Sphcerium martensi Pils. 



Fig. 5. — Sphcerium subtransversum Pme. 



Fig. 6. — Sphcerium novoleonis Pils. ,. 



Figs. 7, 8. — Helicina sowerbyana Pfr. 




'90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEAIY OF [DeC, 



A NEW HAWAIIAN LIMN^A. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Limnaea hawaiensis n. sp. 



The shell is dextral, very narrowly rimate, obliquely ovate, thin and 

 light brown; surface A'ery closely, finely and distinctly striate longi- 

 tudinally. The spire is extremely short and obtuse, 

 there being scarcely three whorls in all, separated by a 

 deeply impressed sutm-e. The last whorl is convex below 

 the suture, then slopes outward, and is full and sack-like 

 at the periphery and base. The broad, ovate apertiu-e 

 is oblique and nearly as long as the shell. The columel- 

 lar lip is refiexed, and indistinctly folded above. 

 Length 6.5, diam. 5.3, length of aperture 5.5 mm. 

 Hawaii, in small streams in the mountains on the Hilo side. Types 

 No. 85,380, A. N. S. P., collected by R. C. McGregor in 1900. 



The shell of this species approaches Erinna newcomhi H. and A. Ad.,^ 

 described from Hanalei river, Kauai, in contour, but it is evidently 

 more closely related to Limnoea affinis Souleyet.^ That species was 

 described from streams on the island of Oahu, and is said to be "tou- 

 jours senestre/' while every one of the 30 or 40 examples of L. haivaien- 

 sis taken is dextral. Although Pease claims that some of the Hawaiian 

 species are indifferently sinistral or dextral, it seems to me that the 

 alleged constant sinistral coiling of the Oahu form, and the equally in- 

 variable dextral convolution of this form from Hawaii, indicate that 

 the two islands are peopled by separate species of these short-spired 

 Limn seas. 



Pease includes L. affinis Soul, and L. " sandwichensis" Phil. ( = sand- 

 wicensis Phil.) under L. oahuensis Soul, as synonyms.^ It is evident 

 that he had never seen Souleyet's L. affinis, or even the figures of it, 

 for it is as remote as possible from oahuensis. L. sandwicensis Phil, is 

 a much more lengthened species than L. hawaiensis. 



None of the species described by Pease* and by GoukP are closely 

 related to L. affinis and L. hawaiensis. 



^ Genera of Recent Mollusca, II, p. 644. 



2 Voy. Bonite, Zool., II, p. 528, PI. 29, figs. 42-44. 



^ American Journal of Conchology, VI, p. 5. 



* Pease, t. c, pp. 5, 6. 



* U. S. Exploring Expedition, Mollusca, Atlas, figs. 140, 142. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 791 



The radiila has about 15.8.1.8.15 teeth. The central tooth in each 

 row is small and unicuspid. The laterals are bicuspid; the inner ones 



9i 



have the inner cusp wide and obtuse or slightly emarginate, evidently 

 composed of entocone + mesocone. The two cusps become subequal 

 on the outer lateral teeth. The inner marginal teeth have thi'ee 

 cusps, the outer ones four, by splitting of the entocone. 



The jaw is arcuate, with small lateral appendages as usual in Lim7icea. 

 It is smooth. 



The teeth of this snail differ from those of Holaretic species of Lim- 

 ncea in the structure of the laterals, but the radula is not that of the 

 Planorhince. The dentition is known in so few Limnseid species out- 

 side of Europe and the United States that no useful comparisons of this 

 peculiar^ Hawaiian type can be made. The animals as contracted in 

 formalin resemble Limncea externally, having short, wide tentacles and 

 a short foot. 




792 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



December 15. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



The death of Samuel B. Howell, M.D., December 12, 1903, was 

 announced. He was elected a member in 1855, and held the office of 

 Recording Secretary from February, 1867, to December, 1874. 



The following was accepted for publication: 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 793 



SOME PELAGIC POLYCH^TA NEW TO THE WOODS HOLE FAUNA. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



The pelagic annelid fauna of southern New England has received 

 but little attention and, with the exception of larval forms, some 

 Sillidae and the epitokous phases of some nereids, etc., practically noth- 

 ing relating to it has been recorded. With the exception of Tomopteris 

 all of the genera discussed in the following pages are new to the region. 



Amphinome pallasii Quatrefages. 



From several logs covered with goose barnacles {Lepas anatifera) 

 which came ashore in Vineyard Sound on August 4 and 5, 1903, a large 

 number of examples of this species were taken. Most of them meas- 

 ured from 2 to 2+ inches in length, and their size and peculiar bluish- 

 brown color served to conceal them admirably among the stalks of 

 the barnacles and in the crevices to which they clung. Several were 

 observed to squeeze between the valves of barnacles and to feed on 

 their soft parts, and the digestive tracts of others were filled with a 

 soft pasty substance apparently composed of the tissues of those 

 animals. 



There can be no doubt that these specimens are of the species de- 

 scribed and figured under the above name by Ehlers in his Florida 

 Anneliden, and which is probably a regular Gulf Stream waif. Under 

 the name of A. rostrata (Pallas) Mcintosh^ describes an Amphinome 

 taken from a floating log near the Bermudas. From his description 

 the Woods Hole specimens differ most obviously in having the short 

 notopodial setse with serrated tips more slender instead of stouter 

 than the longer notopodial setse, and in the different form of the ter- 

 minal knobs of the very short spines. The shape of the cephalic carun- 

 cle and the arrangement of the setse also present slight divergences, but 

 in all other respects the resemblance is very close. Prof. IMcIntosh 

 apparently considers the two species identical. 

 Hipponoe gaudichaudi Aud. and M. E. 



On the same floating logs that yielded the Amphinome were found 

 many fine examples of this species, which agree perfectly with the 

 original description and with Mcintosh's ^ detailed account and figures. 



1 Challenger Reports, XII, p. 21. 

 * Challenger Reports. XII, p. 30 




794 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



Unlike the Amphinome , most of these were foimcl on the under side 

 of the logs away from the light, associated with crabs and nudibranches. 

 and less frequently among the barnacles on the sides and upper stirface. 

 By means of their strong neuropodial hooks thc}^ cling most tenaciously 

 and move very sluggishly. The larger ones were of a deep orange- 

 red color, due to the great nmnber of small spherical ova with which 

 the body wall was distended, and the expulsion of which caased the 

 color to quickly fade. 



Again, unlike the Amphino?ne, which is a common annelid in the 

 littoral zone of the West Indies, this species probably finds its normal 

 habitat on floating objects. The original examples of Audouin and 

 j\Iilne-Edwards^ came from Port. Jackson, while the Challenger took the 

 species in the Atlantic Ocean, 100 miles north of Bermuda, and also in 

 the North Pacific, in one case attached to a log and in the other among 

 masses of Lepas fascicularis floating at the surface. Baird* also notes 

 that the British Museum contains specimens taken amongst barnacles 

 on a floating log near ^Madeira, and others from within the valves of 

 Lepas fascicularis from near St. Helena. 

 DriescMa pellncida n. sp. 



This is a slender species, the single representative of which has a 

 total length, including the protruded proboscis, of 14 mm., a maximimi 

 breadth of body of about 1 mm., a width between the tips of the para- 

 podia of 2.8 mm. and between the ends of the longest setae of 6 mm. 



The prostomium (PI. LY, fig. 1) is of the Lepidonotus type, is f as 

 long as broad, regularly convex laterally, slightly concave posteriorly 

 and deeply cleft anteriorly to accommodate the ceratophore of the 

 median tentacle, on each side of which the frontal prolongations reach 

 nearh^ to the same distal level; a broad shallow median depression 

 reaches almost to the posterior margin. The eyes are rather small, cir- 

 cular and black, and because of the beautifully transparent tissues very 

 conspicuous ; they are well separated on the sides of the head, the ante- 

 rior pair at the place of its greatest width and the posterior close to the 

 postero-lateral angles and about twice their own diameter from the 

 anterior eyes. The style of the median tentacle is lost. As in Lepi- 

 donotus, the lateral tentacles arise directly from the frontal processes 

 without any distinct ceratophores ; they are about 1^ times the length 

 of the head, verv^ slender and taper regularly to acute points without 

 any subterminal enlargement or terminal filament. The palpi are 

 widely separated at their origin beneath the sides of the prostomium, 



^ Ann. Sci. Nat. (1), XX (1830), p. 1.59. 

 * Jour. Linn. Soc. Lon., X (1868), p. 239. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 795 



rather stout at the base, tapered gradually to the terminal fourth and 

 then rapidly to a short filamentous tip; they are about twice the length 

 of the head, and the dorsal surface is marked by two longitudinal 

 ciliated lines. No setse occur on the buccal parapodium. The cerato- 

 phores of the tentacular cirri reach beyond the prostomium; their 

 styles are subec^ual, more than 4 times the length of the head, slender 

 and regularly tapering to fine tips. Crowded between the bases of the 

 tentacular cirri, the prostomium and first elytrophore on each side is a 

 small ovate lobe. The protruded proboscis measiu-es 1.5 mm. long 

 and .7 mm. vdde, is nearly terete and bears 13 acute ovate papillae 

 (fig. 6) above and a like number below. Just proximad of these is a 

 circular ridge, terminating on each side in a small prominence. No 

 peculiarities are presented by the interlocking fang-like jaws. 



Besides the peristomium and pygidium there are 25 very distinct 

 setigerous somites in the slender elongated body (fig. 1), which tapers 

 very gently both ways but quite rapidly near the pygidium. Owing 

 to the very delicate musculature the body walls are thin and inflated 

 and so transparent that even in the alcoholic specimen the entire 

 arrangement of the parapodial muscles is distinctly visible. Except 

 a few at each end, all of the somites are partially biannulate through a 

 cross-furrow just anterior of the parapodia. No ncphridial papillae 

 are visible. The small truncated pygidium is slightly annulatecl, 

 as though composed of several somites, and bears a pair of minute 

 caudal styles above the somewhat dorsally directed anus. 



All of the 25 pairs of setigerous parapodia (figs. 2-5) are uniramal, 

 consisting of neuropodia alone. They are elongated and prominent, 

 those of the middle region very nearly equaling the width of the 

 body. Of a nearly cylindrical form, they are somewhat enlarged at 

 the end, where they terminate in a longer, more pointed preset al pro- 

 cess and a shorter, thicker postsetal process, W'hich is rendered slightly 

 less transparent than the rest of the organ by a small aggregation of 

 gland cells. Toward the ends of the body the parapodia diminish 

 in size, and the last one is a mere short, cylindrical tubercle. \>ntral 

 cirri occur on all parapodia. They arise from the middle of the ventral 

 surface and are always slender and regularly tapered ; on a few^ of the 

 anterior somites they reach to the tip of the parapodia, but tj^pically are 

 only ^ as long as their parapodium. 



The dorsal cirri (PI. LV, figs. 1, 2, 5) are borne on all parapodia 

 not occupied by elytra, and because of their unequal development are 

 very characteristic. Each springs from a slight elevation of the body 

 wall above and slightly caudad of the parapodium. The ceratophores 




796 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



are subcylindrical, but are somewhat constricted at the base and 

 tapered more or less distally, thin-walled and hollow, with less trans- 

 parent integuments than the body. Typically they are of large size, 

 many of them much exceeding their parapodia, which they may 

 totally conceal from above. The second (on somite VI) is the largest, 

 being twice as long and much thicker than the corresponding para- 

 podium. The next two are successively slightly shorter; and from 

 this point to near the posterior end large and small cirri regularly alter- 

 nate, short ones whose ceratophores barely equal the parapodia occur- 

 ring on XII, XVI and XX, long ones with ceratophores much exceed- 

 ing the parapodia on XIV and X^TII, that of XXII, though of 

 reduced size, also belonging to the latter group by reason of its long 

 style. On XXIV the dorsal cirri are greatly reduced. The styles are 

 slender and tapering to the ends, those of the larger cirri being whip- 

 lash-like and from H times to twice the length of the ceratophores, 

 and the smaller ones little exceeding their ceratophores and apparently 

 more rigid. The style on XXIV is conical, that of XXV short ovate. 

 Whether somite XXVI bears a cirrus or an elytron is micertain, as 

 only a small tubercle is present. 



Twelve pairs of elytrophores occur on somites II, IV, V, and then on 

 every alternate somite to XXIII inclusive, and the small tubercle on 

 XXVI may possibly indicate a thirteenth. The elytrophores are 

 remarkable for their length and slenderness (figs. 3 and 4). In the 

 alcoholic specimen they are much contracted, as indicated by the 

 \\Tinkles, furrows and nodules upon their surfaces, particularly of the 

 last two. When the specimen was first taken they were extended, 

 and the parapodia were raised high above the body. The elytra are 

 attached near the middle by a very limited area, and are readily 

 detached. They are perfectly plain and smooth, without papillae, 

 cilia or processes of any kind, or any pigment. Instead of having the 

 usual scale-like form, the elytrsi, when the specimen was taken from 

 the tow-net and still alive, were inflated and spherical, being mere thin- 

 walled vesicles filled with fluid, but certainly entirely closed and without 

 any communication with the coelom. That this condition maj- have 

 resulted from rough handling in the net is possible, but seems improb- 

 able from the fact that every elytron is in the same condition. An 

 area siuroimding the scar of attachment is finely granular; elsewhere 

 the elytron is perfectly transparent. A large part of the back is 

 exposed, the elytra having the aspect of a series of floats attached along 

 its sides. 



Typical parapodia bear setse of two kinds, the one elongated and 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 797 



slender, the other short and stout, but both are essentiaU}^ of the type 

 found in the neiu-opodium of Lepidonotus and its ahies, though the 

 slender ones superficially resemble the notopodial form. Both kinds 

 are colorless and vitreous. The former kind (fig. 7) arc arranged in 

 a spreading fan-shaped fascicle, and many of them are exceedingly 

 long and slender, their total length equaling or exceeding the entire 

 ■fransverse distance between the tips of the parapodia. A^ery fre- 

 quently the inner ends of those of the two sides of the bod}^ touch or 

 even overlap in the coelom beneath the intestine, and their protruded 

 portions reach beyond the parapodia to a distance equal to or even 

 twice its length. For the greater part of their length they are smooth 

 and of an even diameter, but at a point on the exposed part a variable 

 distance from the end a more or less distinct enlargement occurs, 

 beyond which the seta tapers very gradually into a fine, usually 

 slightly curved tip, the convex margin of which is marked by a series 

 of minute appressed scales. The length of this tip varies greatly even 

 in setse which are contiguous in the bundle. The shortest setae of 

 this kind occur in the ventral portion of the anterior bundles and the 

 longest in the middle portion of the posterior bundles. The number 

 is greatest in the middle somites and diminishes each way, the last 

 parapodium having but one in this specimen. 



The stout setae (figs. 9 to 12) recall the form of those of Scalesetosus. 

 They are 2 or 3 times as thick as the slender ones and very much 

 shorter. Near the end is a rather abrupt enlargement, be^'ond which 

 they taper somewhat irregularly into a short, somewhat hooked tip pro- 

 vided in newly formed setae with a flexible appendage, which in most 

 instances is quickly worn away. On the dorsal side of the thickening 

 is a short transverse fringe, followed along the same or concave side 

 of the tip by 4 or 5 pairs of delicate combs reaching about half-way to 

 the tip. Almost invariably 3 stout setae are found in the ventral part 

 of the parapodium, and the dorsalmost one only is accompanied by a 

 slender seta. On the first parapodium (II) are a few setae of an inter- 

 mediate type (fig. 8); the vcntralmost one is the stoutest, the dorsal 

 one most attenuated. The two kinds are well differentiated on III. 



The alimentar}' canal is slender and thin-walled, with regular enlarge- 

 ments at the septa. A few degenerating ova in the coelom establish the 

 sex. As indicated above the specimen is colorless and pellucid, with 

 distinct pigment in the eyes onl}'. 



The only known specimen was taken in the surface tow-net, 70 miles 

 southeast of Nomans Land, Massachusetts, on the ])order of the Gulf 

 Stream, on July 31, 1902, along with Salpse, several species of pteropods 




798 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



and mediLSse and other constituents of that strictly pelagic fauna. 

 Though this locality is not strictly within the limits of the Woods Hole 

 region it is frequently visited by expeditions sent out from Woods 

 Hole by the U. S. Fish Commission, and members of its fauna are 

 every summer carried into Vineyard Sound by favorable winds. 



The discovery of a species of Drieschia in oiu" waters is of exceptional 

 interest, as the type and hitherto only kno-uTi species of the genus was 

 described by Michaelsen^ from the neighborhood of Cejdon, and has not 

 been foimd since. Like the new species, it is pelagic and pellucid, but 

 differs decidedly in specific characters. D. pelagica has 28 somites and 

 13 pairs of elytra; the palpi are as long as the tentacular cirri and 2^ 

 times the antennae; the dorsal cirri are all alike and have very thick 

 but short ovate ceratophores, and the stout setse are strongly curved 

 and of a quite different shape. The elytra have the same pecuhar 

 inflated character described for D. pellucida, though apparently less 

 pronounced. 



Tomopteris helgolandica Greef. ? 



Several specimens of a perfectly Hmpid species of Tomoperis were 

 taken in the tow-net, lowered nearly to the bottom in 17 fathoms, at 

 Crab Ledge, east of Chatham, ^lassachusetts, on August 19, and again 

 on August 22, 1902. The same species was also taken at the surface 

 at Woods Hole in July, 1903. Prof. Verrill has recorded the occm-- 

 rence of the young of Tomopteris in Vineyard Sound," and an imidenti- 

 fied species of the genus from the Gulf Stream material collected bj^ the 

 Albatross in 1883.^ These appear to be the only published records of 

 the capture of this interesting annelid in this region. ^Miss Katharine 

 Bush has kindly compared one of my specimens with those from the 

 Gulf Stream in the Yale Museum, and states that they are of the same 

 species, a conclusion which I am enabled to confirm through Prof. 

 Verrill's courtesy in sending to me an unpubhshed dra^\-ing of his 

 species. 



After a careful examination of the ver}- considerable literature of 

 the genus I am still in doubt concerning the identit}' of the ^lassachu- 

 setts examples. Notwithstanding Apstein's excellent monographic 

 work.^ there are still wanted careful descriptions of the changes under- 

 gone by many of the species during growth and of the very considerable 

 variations which occur among the matiu-e worms, of the limits of which 



^ Mitteilungen Naturhis. Mus. Hamburg, IX (1891), p. 6. 



* Invertebrates of Vineyard Sound, p. 332 (626). 



' Rep. U. S. Fish Commission for 1883 (1885), p. 594. 



* Alciopiden und Tomopteriden der Plankton Expedition. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 799 



but little is known. From all of the species which have been accurately 

 described, with the single exception of that to which GreefT has given 

 the name of T. helgolayulica , the ^Massachusetts form is clearh' differ- 

 entiated. T. helgolandica it resembles closely in all of those technical 

 characters, such as the distribution of rosette-organs and parapodial 

 fin glands, the form of the parapodia, relative length of the cirri, etc., 

 which have been most relied upon for the discrimination of species by 

 the best students of this group — Apstein, Greeff and Vejdovsky. 



On the other hand there are many minor points of difference, most 

 of which are constant in the 8 specimens at hand, but which are of such 

 a natiu-e that they may be temporary or local, and not specific. The 

 specimens vary in length from 6 mm., in one having 10 pairs of para- 

 podia, to 18 mm., in one having 16 pairs of parapodia besides a caudal 

 appendage of 3 mm. on which occur 8 additional pairs. These and the 

 intermediate growth stages exhibit the changes in the proportions of 

 cirri, etc., which have been described by Carpenter and others. In all 

 except the largest example the rosette-organs are limited to a single 

 one situated in the broad fin membrane near the apex of each ramus 

 of the foot, exactly as in T. helgolandica, but the largest specimen only 

 possesses the third one on the anterior side of the base of the neuropodia 

 of the first and second feet, generally present in that species. In these 

 the dorsal ramus of the parapodia (fig. 13) is the longer, while T. 

 helgolandica is always figured as having the ventral ramus longer. The 

 fin membranes and the neuropodial gland exhibit no differences. The 

 4th and 5th parapodia are the longest, and all except the first two have 

 their filmed ends tm-ned sharply caudad. Differences in the shape of 

 the prostomimii, which has a more slender median part and longer 

 horns, in the shape of the base of the second pair of cirri, which has 

 an anterior shoulder, and a longer interval between the second pair 

 of cirri and the first parapodia may be due to a different state of con- 

 traction of the preserved specimens. In all. excepting the second, 

 of these respects the resemblance to the figures of T. rolasi Greeff is 

 closer. The Woods Hole specimens were collected by Mr. Edwards, 

 and were studied only after preservation in formaline, but no red or 

 yellow pigment was apparent . The Crab Ledge specimens while alive 

 had no red pigment, and the central body of the rosette-organs was 

 brown and not yellow; moreover, these organs appear to have a less 

 regular structure than in 7'. helgolandica, but for the study of these, as 

 well as the lenses of the black-pigment ed eyes, and the brain, fresh 

 material is required. 



In all of the specimens the alimentary canal largely fills the ca?lom, 




800 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the muscular phaiynx reaches nearly or quite to the first parapodium 

 and, except in two or three, the proboscis is everted and has the shape 

 of an elliptical dish. Ovaries are present in both rami of developed 

 parapodia, arising from near the apex of the outer wall, and are actively 

 proliferating spherical groups of ova and nurse-cells, many of which 

 float freeh' in the coelom. There is little indication of the predomi- 

 nance of one cell in each of these groups, so that none of the specimens 

 shows e\ddence of approaching maturit}'. 



From the foregoing it is evident that the specific identity of our 

 species with that so well knoT\-n from northern European waters under 

 the name of T. onisciformis Eschscholtz is by no means certain. 

 Greeff's name is employed in the belief that future more thorough 

 knowledge of the species of this genus will probabh' justify it, though 

 the grounds® upon which he splits Eschscholtz's species into two and 

 altogether abandons the latter's much earlier name^*^ are quite insuffi- 

 cient. Southern New England is within the already known geographi- 

 cal range of T. helgolandica. In the western Atlantic Apstein fomid it 

 abimdantly in the plankton taken off Xewfomidland, and records it 

 from as far south as the mouth of the Amazon river. T. smithii Ver- 

 rill" from Eastport, Elaine, is probably founded on adult examples of 

 this species, and if the black spots shown at the bases of the parapodia of 

 the West Indian Tomopteris figm'ed by Agassiz^^ represent the nephri- 

 dial pores, there is no apparent reason for considering that to be any 

 other species. By far the most generally distributed species in the 

 warmer parts of the western Atlantic, according to the records of the 

 German Plankton Expedition, is T. keferstinii, but no American plank- 

 tologist has recorded this from the surface fauna of the Gulf Stream. 

 Andrews" states that immature individuals of a Tomopteris resembling 

 T. rolasi occur at Beaufort, North Carolina, but no description of them 

 has been published. 



9 Zeit. f. wiss. Zooh, XXXII, p. 264. 

 ^" Isis, 1825, column 736, PI. 5. fie. 5. 

 " Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., II (1S79). p. 1S2. 

 '^ Three Voyages of the Blake, Vol. I, p. 192. 

 '' Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIV (1891), p. 300. 




1903.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 801 



Explanation of Plate LV. 



Figs. 1 to 12. — Drieschia pellucida. 



Fig. 1. — Dorsal view of entire worm with the elytra removed. X 11. 



Figs. 2 to 5. — Parapodia of somites X, IV, IX and XIV respectively, viewed from 



the posterior face, XIV only with the setse. X 24. 

 Fig. 6. — Front view of the proboscis, showing jaws and papilla;. X 56. 

 Fig. 7. — -One of the shortest of the slender setse from the ventral margin of 



somite XIV. X 250. a, a small portion of the same. X 440. 

 Fig. 8. — Face view of a seta from the middle of the first parapodium (II). 



X 360. 

 Figs. 9 to 11. — The tips of three stout sette from somite X, 9 having the 



pennant-like tip, 10 the most ventral and 11 tlie most dorsal of the 



group. X 360. 

 Fig. 12. — Face view of a stout seta with tip intact from somite XIV. X 360. 

 Fig. 13. — Outline of a typical parapodium fV) of a medium-sized Tomoptrris 



from Crab Ledge, showing the rosette-organs, dr and vr, the fin gland, gl, 



and the ovaries, o, the latter being represented diagrammatically. X 24. 



51 




802 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



The following reports were ordered to be printed: 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



Twenty-eight meetings of the Academy -o-ere held since the begin- 

 ning of last December with an average attendance of thirty. A^erbal 

 communications were made by ^Messrs. Woolman, Harshberger. 

 Palmer, Da\ds, J. C. Morris, Hamilton, Chapman, Pilsbr}-, Keeley, 

 Montgomery', Calvert, A. E. Brown, Strong, Taylor, Kennedy, Hopper, 

 Dixon, Sharp, Conkhn, DiiBois, Phihps, Fowler, Strong, and Stone. 

 Without attempting to estimate the comparative importance of these, 

 it may be noted that the remarks of ]\Iessrs. Chapman and Brown, made 

 at the meeting of November 3, on the fine collection of anthropoids 

 presented by Dr. Thomas Biddle, attracted the largest assembly of 

 the year. 



Fiftj^-five papers have been presented for publication, as follows: 

 Henry W. Fowler, 7, Henry A. Pilsbry, 5; John "W. Harshberger, 4; 

 James A. G. Rehn, 4; T. D. A. Cockereil, 3; Howard Crawley, 3; Ralph 

 V. Chamberlain, 2; Thomas L. Casey, 2; Arthm- Erwin Brown, 2; 

 Clarence B. Moore, 2; Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., 2; J. Percy Moore, 

 2; Adele M. Fielde, 2; T. Chalkley Palmer, 1; Witmer Stone, 1; Wit- 

 mer Stone and J. A. G. Rehn, 1; Wilham ]\Iorton WTieelcr, 1; Henry 

 Skinner, 1; Edw. B. Meigs, 1 ; Frederick W. True, 1 ; Nathan Banks, 1 ; 

 Persifor Frazer, 1 ; Carl H. Eigenmann and C. H. Kennedy, 1 ; E. G. 

 Conkhn, 1 ; Dana B. Costeel, 1 ; J. A. G. Rehn and T. D. A. Cockereil. 1 . 

 and E. G. Vanatta, 1. 



Three of these (one as yet presented only by title) belong to the 

 Journal. Two of those intended for publication in the Proceedings 

 have been withdra^\Ti, three have been returned to the authors, one 

 was transferred to the Entomological Section and one has been held 

 for the next volume. The others will constitute the volume for the 

 current year. 



Nine hmidred and twelve pages of the Proceedings for 1903, illus- 

 trated by 44 plates, 340 pages and 15 plates of the Entomological News, 

 472 pages and 8 plates of the Transactions of the American Entomo- 

 logical Society (Entomological Section of the Academ}') and 322 pages 

 accompanied by 62 plates of the Manual of Conchologj/. puljlished by 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 803 



the Conchological Section, have been issued. In addition we are in- 

 debted to Mr. Clarence B. ^loore for the piibhcation of No. 3 of Vol. XII 

 of the Journal, consisting of 136 pages, profusely illustrated with 

 text engra%dngs. 



Under the auspices of the Academy, therefore, there have been 

 issued during the year 2182 pages and 129 plates of scientific matter. 



The statistics of distribution are as follows: 



Proceedings, delivered to members, 51S 



" exchanged, ^^'^ 



" to subscribers, 4a 



1,15a 



Journal, exchanged, 70 



" to subscribers, 34 



104 



Thirteen meml:)ers and five correspondents have iDcen elected. The 

 deaths of seven members and three correspondents have been an- 

 nounced, and the following members have resigned: William H. 

 Roberts, Thomas G. Morton, Charles D. Lippincott, E. Shirley Borden 

 and Miss Ethel Smith. 



The most notable event in the year's history was the adoption, ]\Iay 5, 

 of a revised code of By-La\^■s, providing for several changes in adminis- 

 tration. The most important of these relate to the meetings of the 

 Academy and the duties of the Committee on Publication. Instead 

 of a meeting every Tuesday evening throughout the year, sessions are 

 now held on the first and third Tuesdays from October to ]\Iay 

 inclusive, thus decreasing the number from fifty-two to sixteen. It 

 was held that the constantly increasing tendency to the division of 

 scientific interests into specialties and the consequent organization of 

 sections and special societies interfered with attendance on general 

 meetings, and that all interests involved would l^e better secured by 

 meeting less frecpiently. It is, perhaps, premature to pronounce an 

 opinion on the results of this important change, but it is c^uite apparent 

 that the interest of the meetings held since last October has been better 

 sustained than for some years previous. The reference of papers direct 

 to the Publication Committee instead of indirectly to the Academy, 

 a change unavoidable in aIcw of the decrease in the number of meetings 

 if promptness of publication were to be secured, has been found in 

 practice to be desirable, as the interval between the reception of a paper 

 anfl its appearance in print has been much reduced — has been, in fact, 

 reduced as far as seems to be at present practicable, while it is con- 




804 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



sidered essential that authors should examine, when possible, one proof 

 and frequently a revise. This rule, of course, sometimes involves delay 

 over which the Committee can have only indirect control, but results 

 in such good that there can be no question of its advisability. 



A resolution was adopted February 24 requesting the Pennsylvania 

 Topographic and Geologic Survey Commission to siuve}" and prepare 

 maps at an early date of the cjuadrangles of Coatesville, Phoenixville, 

 Supplee, Oxford and New Holland. 



An invitation to meet in Philadelphia diuing the approaching 

 Christmas vacation has been accepted by the Society of American 

 Zoologists, the American Physiological Societ}^, the Society of Plant 

 Morphologists and Physiologists, the Society of Bacteriologists and 

 the Eastern Branch of the American Society of Naturalists. 



A number of the smaller related societies continue to avail them- 

 selves of permission to meet in the rooms of the Academ3^ 



The resignation of Dr. Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., has created a 

 vacancy in the Committee on Instruction and Lectures, and the death 

 of Dr. Charles Schaeffer one in the Committee on Librar}-. 



Edward J. Nolax, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



Continuing the inquiries begun last year concerning Correspondents 

 whom the postal authorities reported as removed from the recorded 

 addresses, the whereabouts of several have been ascertained during the 

 year. In many cases the reported decease of Correspondents has 

 been authenticated. The assistance of the many persons who furn- 

 ished biographical and other data in connection with this work is grate- 

 fully acknowledged, and especial mention should be made of the War 

 and Navy Departments. 



During the year the deaths have been regretfully announced of 

 Augustus Radcliffe Grote, the American entomologist, who had resided 

 for many years in Germany; Carl Gegenbaur, the eminent compara- 

 tive anatomist, and Julius Victor Cams, the zoologist and bibliographer, 

 Correspondents of the Academy. 



On the other hand, the luster of our rolls has been increased b}' the 

 addition of the names of Theodor Boveri, William ]\Iorton Wheeler, 

 Nestor Grehant, Eduard Strasburger and Hugo de \'ries, who have been 

 awarded the Academy's diploma in recognition of their distinguished 

 services in the field of scientific research. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 805 



A marked increase in the interest manifested by its Correspondents in 

 the affairs of the Academy has been evident. Twenty-six'photographs 

 and tAventy-three biographical sl-:etches of living Correspondents were 

 received during the year, but a number have still failed to contribute 

 to this record. Copies of the Annual Reports were sent to 243 Corre- 

 spondents, some of whom, in returning acknowledgments, took occa- 

 sion to congratulate the Academ}^ on its work. 



Letters of felicitation were forwarded to the Roumanian Geographi- 

 cal Society upon the receipt of a medal commemorating the twenty- 

 fifth anniversary of its founding, and to the Silesian Society for National 

 Culture upon the completion of the first century of its existence. To 

 the Entomological Society of Belgium a letter of sympathy was sent 

 upon the announcement of the death of its President, Pierre-Jules 

 Tosquinet. Other correspondence with foreign societies was chiefly 

 of a routine nature. 



Following is a summary of the correspondence for the fiscal year : 



Communications Received. 



Acknowledging the Academy's publications, 198 



Transmitting publications, 48 



Requesting exchanges and the supply of deficiencies, 5 



Invitations to participate in meetings, etc., 3 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, research 



funds, etc., 7 



Xotice of death of scientific man, 1 



Photographs of Correspondents, 26 



Letters from Correspondents, 32 



Miscellaneous letters, 47 



Total received, 367 



Communications Forwarded. 



Acknowledgments of gifts to the Library, 743 



Acknowledgments of gifts to the Museum, 113 



Acknowledgments of photographs, 26 



Requests for the supply of deficiencies, 69 



Copies of Annual Reports, 243 



Correspondents' diplomas and notices of election, 11 



Letters of congratulation and sympathj^, 3 



Letters to Correspondents, 115 



Miscellaneous letters, 67 



Total forwarded, 1,390 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 



Corresponding Secrctar]! . 




806 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



REPORT OF THE IJBRARLW. 



The growth of the Library during the past year is represented by 

 6,737 additions. This is an increase of 651 over the accessions of last 

 year, and is believed to be more than the receipts of any other year 

 except when entire private Hbraries hdve been added by gift or bequest. 

 Of these additions 5,512 were pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 1,017 

 were volumes and 208 were maps and sheets. 



Thev were derived from the following sources : 



Societies 2,490 



I. V. WiUiamson Fund 1,285 



General Appropriation 874 



Editors 828 



United States Department of the 



Interior 279 



Authors 277 



Meigs Fund 130 



Wilson Fund 97 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 89 



University of Chicago 74 



East Indian Government 36 



Geological Survey of Sweden 22 



George de Schweinitz, M.D 19 



Department of Agriculture, Cape 



of Good Hope l7 



Co mite Geologique Russe 17 



State of Pennsylvania 16 



Library of Congress 15 



United States Department of 



State ; 13 



Department of Mines, Victoria.... 13 



Minister of PubUc Works, France 12 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D 12 



Mexican Government 8 



Conchological Section of the 



Academy 7 



Geological Survey of India 6 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D 6 



Wisconsin Geological Survey 5 



Geological Siirvey of Xew Jerse}-.. 5 



Maryland Geological Survey 5 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D 5 



United States War Department.. 4 



Bureau of American Ethnology... 4 



Trustees of the British Museum.... 4 



Geological Survey of Canada 4 



Geological Survey of Georgia 4 



Monsieur le Due de Loubat 4 



Philippine Exposition Board 4 



Department of Mines, New South 



Wales 3 



Joseph MacFarland, M.D 3 



Department of Mines, Nova Sco- 

 tia 3 



Comission Internacional de Lim- 

 ites entre Mexico y los Estados 



Unidos 3 



United States Commission of 



Fish and Fisheries 2 



United States Coast and Geodetic 



Survey 2 



Department of Marine and Fish- 

 eries, Canada 2 



WiUiam J. Fox 2 



Ministry of Works, Peru 2 



Commission des Travaux Geo- 

 logique, Portugal 2 



Queensland Government 2 



Imperial Geological Survey, 



Japan 2 



Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum.. 2 



Messrs. Schaeffer & Koradi 



William E. Meehan 



John Crerar Library 



William L. Abbott, M.D 



Massachusetts Commissioners of 



Inland Fisheries 



Librarj- Association of Australia.. 



Rev. H. C. McCook, D.D 



Geological Survey of Alabama 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 807 



Geological Survey of Minnesota.. 1 I Stewardson Brown 1 



Philadelphia Commercial Mu- I Department of Geology and Nat- 



seums 1 I ural History, Indiana 1 



Geological Survej- of Michigan ... 1 [ Thomas Biddle, M.D 1 



Trustees of the Indian Museum... 1 Joseph Willcox 1 



Geological Survey of Iowa 1 I 



The}^ have been classified, catalogued and arranged in the Library 

 under the following heads: 



Journals 5,057 j Mammalogy 43 



Geology 469 | Bibliographj- 42 



Botany 246 Conchology 41 



General Natural History 161 Ichthyology 39 



Agriculture 93 Helminthology 34 



Entomology 73 Physical Sciences 24 



Anatomy and Physiology 69 > Encyclopedias, etc 17 



Anthropology 66 Chemistry 16 



Voyages and Travels 56 | Herpetology 11 



Ornithology 49 1 Mathematics 10 



Geography 45 | Medicine 8 



Mineralogy 44 1 Unclassified 24 



The collection of lantern-slides, which is becoming year by year of 

 more importance as illustrations for the com-ses of lectures delivered 

 under the auspices of the Academy, has been increased by the addition 

 of 262 views, the entire collection now numbering 1,243. A new 

 cabinet to hold 1,000 slides has been provided and a card catalogue 

 has been prepared by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. The additions of the year 

 have been derived from the following soiu'ces: Charles Schaeffer, 

 M.D., 25; Benjamin Sharp, M.D., 19; Henry Skinner, M.D., 7; pur- 

 chased, 211. 



A large collection of maps which had accumulated since the founding 

 of the Academy and which was practically inaccessible, have been 

 cleaned, trimmed and backed with linen; 2,128 pieces, forming up- 

 ward of 9,000 square feet, have thus been treated. A case of drawers 

 has been provided for them and they have been roughly classified 

 and placed therein, to be more carefully arranged as soon as time can 

 be found for the work. 



An important part of the journals and periodicals reported has been 

 received in answer to applications for deficiencies written in the course 

 of preparing sets for the binding. Among the more interesting of such 

 acquisitions is a complete set of the Memoirs of the Royal Academy 

 of the Lincei of Rome, efforts to secure which had Ijeen made inter- 

 mittentlv since 1883. 




808 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Sixty-one volumes of Government publications and 45 maps, either 

 duplicates or not pertaining to the Academy's work, have been re- 

 turned to the Government Printing Office. It is proposed to dispose 

 in like manner of a large accumulation of State reports, etc., received 

 from Harrisburg. 



Seventeen himdred and fort^'-two volumes have been bound and an 

 additional 157 volumes are now in the hands of the binder. Much 

 the greater part of this work has been devoted to journals and trans- 

 actions, thus securing a notable improvement in the appearance of this 

 portion of the Library, and adding greatly to the convenience of those 

 consulting it. 



Notwithstanding the curtailment in the nimiber of meetings the 

 weekly accessions have been recorded, catalogued and placed for inspec- 

 tion by those interested in them every week as usual. The entries in 

 the card catalogue have been prepared, including the titles of the 

 smallest pamphlets, before the additions are placed in the Library. 

 The entire catalogue is being carefully revised by the Assistant Li- 

 brarian, to whom I am indebted, as usual, for efficient help during the 



year, 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators report that the Museum and collections are in excellent 

 condition, with many additions and advances in the arrangement as 

 well as in the identification of the specimens. 



The most conspicuous iniprovement dming the year has been the 

 opening of the new Ornithological gallery, in which more than half the 

 collection of mounted birds — some 6,000 specimens — has been arranged 

 and labelled. The remainder of the collection will be prepared for 

 exhibition and transferred to its new quarters as fast as cases can be 

 prociu-ed. 



^ Plate-glass and mahogany cases, providing 4,343 cubic feet of 

 exhibition space, have been erected during the year for birds, mam- 

 mals, invertebrates and fossils, while Mr. Clarence B. Moore has pre- 

 sented one case for the valuable additions to his archaeological collec- 

 tion. A number of storage and herbarium cases have also been pro- 

 vided for the accommodation of various study collections, making in all 

 the greatest advance in the refurnishing of the Museum that has been 

 effected in any one year. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 809 



The section of the basement of the new building in which the alco- 

 hohc collections are arranged has been materially enlarged to relieve 

 its overcrowded condition. The alcoholic mammals have been 

 entirely rearranged. 



Improvements have been made to the steam-heating plant b}' the 

 addition of radiators in the old building, and the elevator in the new 

 museum has been altered to meet requirements of the municipal laws. 

 An additional watchman has been employed. 



^lessrs. Henry W. Fowler and James A. G. Rehn have been added 

 during the year to the staff of IMuseum assistants. Mr. Fowler has 

 made important progress in the rearrangement of the general collection 

 of fishes, but has devoted most of his time to identifying the large 

 Sumatran collection recently received from Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., 

 and Dr. H. ]M. Hiller. ]\Ir. Rehn, besides assisting in various depart- 

 ments, has arranged and catalogued the Rhoads collection of mammals, 

 bringing the entire series of the smaller mammalian skins into excel- 

 lent order. 



Details of the year's work will be found in the appended reports 

 of the sections. 



Dr. Moore has continued his work on the helminthological collection 

 during the year, and ^liss Wardle has made considerable advance 

 in the cataloguing and arranging of the archaeological material. 



Dm-ing the spring Dr. H. A. Pilsbry made a trip through portions of 

 Arkansas, Indian Territory and Texas in the interests of the Academy 

 and secm-ed valuable series of mollusks, reptiles and plants, many of 

 which were new to the collection. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued to add to his unique and com- 

 prehensive collection of Indian antiquities from Florida and Georgia. 

 His expedition of last winter proved to be unusually successful and 

 the results make his department one of the most important in the 

 Museum. 



Most notable among the many additions to the zoological depart- 

 ment was the magnificent collection of mounted anthropoid apes and 

 skeletons presented to the Academy by Dr. Thomas Biddle. 



A valuable series of fishes, which fills many gaps in our collection, 

 was presented by the U. S. Fish Commission. 



Dr. Henry C. Chapman has added a large number of specimens to the 

 collection of marine invertebrates previously presented by him, and 

 Mr. Joseph Willcox has contributed a notable series of fossil mollusks 

 from Florida. 



An extensive series of fossils from the Oligocene marls of Bowden, 




810 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Jamaica, has been added ot the Isaac Lea collection of Eocene and 

 OUgocene mollusca. This collection now affords facilities for the 

 paleontologist unequalled elsewhere. 



Numerous specimens of birds, mammals and reptiles were received 

 from various sources, including the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, 

 These have been prepared in the taxidermical department. A pair of 

 moimted specimens of the wild goat of Persia have been received on 

 deposit from Mr. Lloyd Griscom. 



Besides the services rendered by the ^luseum staff, the Curators 

 are indebted to Dr. Phihp P. Calvert, Mr. Erich Daecke and Mr. Carl 

 Fenninger for valuable assistance in the Entomological department, 

 as well as to the students of the Jessup Fund, Miss H. X. Wardle, 

 Messrs. J. A. G. Rehn and Raj^mond Winter. 



In importance the museum, research and lectme work of the year 

 exceeds that of any other in the history of the society. 



During the year the ^rycological Club, Philadelphia Botanical Club, 

 Anti-Tuberculosis Society, Pennsylvania Audubon Society, Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club and American Ornithologists' Union have 

 held their meetings in the Hall of the Academy. 



The collections of the various departments have been studied during 

 the year by many specialists from other cities who have ^dsited the 

 Academy, while material has been loaned to Paul Bartsch, C. D. Beadle, 

 W. H. Dall, C. H. Eigenmann, D. G. Elhott, E. M. Walker, H. W. 

 Fowler, J. B. Hatcher, J. C. Merriam, G. S. Miller, Jr., H. F. Osborne, 

 C. V. Piper, J. N. Rose, S. N. Rhoads, C. W. Richmond, Robert Ridg- 

 waj'-, T. W. Vaughan, Bryant Walker. 



Hexry C. Chapman, 

 Arthur Erwix Broavx, 

 Hexry A. Pilsbry, 

 Samuel G. Dixox. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



MiXERALOGICAL AXD GEOLOGICAL SeCTIOX. 



The Section has suffered three peculiarlv heavy losses by death this 

 year. Mr. Lewis Woolman died March 13, 1903. He had been for 

 about ten years a highly energetic promoter of the excursions and 

 other acti^dties of the Section. Theodore D. Rand died April 24, 

 1903. He had been an enthusiastic member and the principal founder 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 811 



of the Section, and was its able Director from the beginning. Dr. 

 Charles Schaeffer died November 23, 1903. He Hkewise was one of 

 the early zealous members of the Section, and had been its skillful and 

 diligent Recorder for about fifteen 3'ears. 



Notwithstanding these severely crippling losses, the Section has kept 

 up its meetings and field excursions with almost undiminished ardor. 

 There have been nine meetings, with an average attendance of eight, 

 and nine field excursions, with an average attendance of twenty-nine. 

 At the meetings communications were made by ^liss Emma Walter, on 

 the Florissant (Col.) region;" by Dr. Florence Basconi, on the geology 

 of the neighborhood of Philadelphia; by Prof. Oscar C. S. Carter, on 

 the old copper mines near the Perkiomen and on the climate of Mani- 

 toba; by Mr. S. Harbert Hamilton, on the geology of eastern Cuba, 

 and on petroleum; by Mr. Lyman, on jade; by Mr. F. J. Keeley, 

 on crystal fluid inclusions containing solids with Brownian move- 

 ment, and on fossil bones and shells from a cave in the Cambrian 

 limestone of-Durham Fiu-nace ; by Messrs. Carter, Hamilton and Lyman, 

 on the trap; besides a number of shorter communications. The field 

 excursions visited: 1. The Cambrian, New Red and ancient gneiss 

 rocks near Edge Hill and northeastward to the Pennypack; 2. Certain 

 crystalline rocks near Westchester and eastward to Darby creek; 



3. Crystalline rocks, schists and Cambrian near Pennypack creek; 



4. The New Red and cr3^stalline rocks of Buck Ridge proper and south- 

 ward through the Neshaminy Gap; 5. Crystalline rocks near the Ne- 

 shaminy from the Gap to Flushing; 6. The New Red section along the 

 canal from New Hope to Point Pleasant ; 7. The cr3'stalline rocks and 

 Cambrian sandstone of a cross-section of Buck Ridge near the Buck 

 Hotel; 8. The New Red and trap near Pottstown; 9. The crystalline 

 rocks with numerous minerals between ]\Iedia, Mineral Hill, Blue Hill 

 and NewtowTi Square. Some mineral specimens were obtained for 

 the Academy's collection. 



The interest shown in the meetings and in the field excursions seems 

 amply to justify the encouragement given the Section by the Academy. 

 Aside from the value of any original work done for the direct 

 increase of the world's science, it is unquestionabh' useful to promote 

 by these gatherings and discussions the love of the natural sciences. 

 It is out of a large body of comparatively inconspicuous lovers of the 

 natural sciences that issue, from time to time, the necessarily small, 

 select percentage of devoted and able workers in that field, and also 

 the generous benefactors of the Academy and kindred institutions. 

 In addition, there is room for a feelino; of satisfaction that something 




812 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



not wholly unimportant has been accomphshed toward the promotion 

 of science. 



The following officers have been elected for the year 1904: 



Director, ...... Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director, ..... George Vaux, Jr. 



Recorder and Secretary, . . . Miss Mary S. Holmes. 



Treasurer, ...... Miss Emma Walter. 



Conservator, Frank J. Keeley. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Vice-Director. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section. 



Xine regular and several informal meetings have been held during 

 the year, showing increased interest among the members, who now 

 number thirty-five. The Conservator reports that the instruments 

 of the Section are in their usual good working order and have been 

 in regular use during the year. 



The following additions have been made : 



Eighty-nine slides, principally rock and mineral sections, received 

 from the Curators of the Academy. 



Tavo slides of quartz with inclusions, presented by Mr. Hugo Bilgram. 



One Zentmayer Army Hospital Microscope and outfit, purchased. 



Two small Queen Microscopes with objectives, purchased. 



One Demonstration Microscope, purchased. 



One Acme, No. 3, Microscope stand, formerly the property of Mr. 

 Woolman, purchased. 



Among the verbal communications and papers the following may be 

 mentioned: New Species of Trachelomonas, by Mr. T. C. Palmer; Myxo- 

 mycetes and liquid inclusions in quartz, by Mr. Hugo Bilgram; stained 

 diatoms and models of microscopes and accessories, by Mr. F. J. Keeley; 

 butter making and various pathological subjects, by Dr. J. C. Morris; 

 remarks on specimens obtained in his travels, by Mr. S. L. Shumo; 

 photographs of diatoms, by Dr. T. S. Stewart; slides of diatoms, by 

 Mr. W. B. Davis, Mr. John A. Shulze and Mr. C. S. Boyer. 



The Section has lost by death Dr. Charles Shaffer, a learned and 

 valued member, and ]\Ir. Lewis Woolman, who by his genial activity 

 had become the personal friend of every active member of the 

 Academv. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 813 



The officers elected for the following year are as follows : 



Director, J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 



Vice-Director, . . . . T. Chalkley Palmer. ' 



Conservator, , . . . . F. J. Keeley. 



Recorder, . . . . . C. S. Boyer. 



Corresponding Secretoj-ij, . . S. L. Schiimo. 



Treasurer, Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



CONCHOLOGICAL SeCTIOX. 



The Conservator respectfully reports that the increase of the col- 

 lection during the year has been very satisfactory, as shown by the 

 list of accessions to the Museum. The general condition of the cabinet 

 is practicalh^ unchanged from last year, and no substantial improve- 

 ments in the arrangement of material can be made until more cases 

 are supplied. As it does not seem desirable to enlarge our exhibition 

 series of shells, it is recommended that a number of cases in the form 

 of stacks, and about as high as the cases in the library, be built to 

 contain series which it is not advisable to exhibit, either from the small 

 size of the shells, the external uniformity of large numbers of species, 

 or other reasons. These stacks may be placed in an enclosed space 

 on the upper gallery or, better, on the lower floor of the Museum. 



In March and April of this year the Conservator made a conchologi- 

 cal reconnaissance of jiortions of the Ozark uplift in western Arkansas 

 and Indian Territory, and of western Texas. The collection made 

 comprises about 660 lots of mollusks, 163 reptiles of 34 species, 300 

 sheets of plants, and small collections of fossils, fishes, etc. It is be- 

 lieved that this collection adds materially to our knowledge of the 

 mollusks of the Southwest. The study of this material is not yet 

 completed. 



Other collections worked upon during the year have been received 

 from Mr. Hirase, including a large number of new species and affording 

 a great mass of valuable zoogeographic data. A collection obtained 

 l^y Mr. Clarence B. Moore in western Florida, reported on by Mr. 

 Vanatta, adds consideraljle to our knowledge of the molluscan 

 fauna of the north shore of the Gulf of Mexico. Many smaller acces- 

 sions have also been determined and reported upon. 



The Conservator has completed systematic studies on the families 




814 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Urocoptidce and Megaspiridoe, the results being published in the Manual 

 of Conchology, of which 322 pages and 62 plates have been issued during 

 this year. 



Throughout the year Mr. A'anatta has rendered invaluable assistance 

 in the work of the department. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Conservator. 



The Entomological Section. 



The Section has received many valuable additions to its cabinets 

 during the year about to close, the largest being the collection of lepi- 

 doptera presented by the heirs of ^Ir. Charles A. Blake. This is con- 

 tained in 70 book-boxes and numbers about 6.000 specimens. Import- 

 ant collections of orthoptera hsixe been purchased, to the nimiber of 

 1.360. They came from Xew Mexico. Arizona, Costa Rica, Argentina, 

 Japan and Mexico. ^Ir. ^lorgan Hebard has presented an interesting 

 and valuable collection of orthoptera from Michigan, numbering over 

 a thousand specimens. Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell has donated 596 hy- 

 menoptera from Xew Mexico, and Mr. Henry L. ^'iereck has added 

 1,879 insects from various parts of the United States. The total 

 number of specimens received by purchase or donation was 16,597. 

 Some of these were types of new species and genera and a considerable 

 number were new to the collection. Xine new genera and 56 new spe- 

 cies were described b}^ members of the Section during the year. The 

 greater portion of the material received has been relaxed, moimtcd, 

 furnished with data lal)els and incorporated in the various collections. 

 One hundred and twelve Schmitt boxes have been purchased and four 

 tin moth and dust-proof cases to hold them. Ten meetings of the 

 Section have been held with an average attendance of fourteen persons. 

 Thirty verbal communications have been made at the meetings, and 

 the proceedings of the meetings have been published in Entomological 

 News. One member died and two associates have been elected. 

 Entomological News and Proceedings of the Entomological Section has 

 been completed to the end of volume fourteen, with 340 pages and 

 15 plates. The collections and library have been used to a greater 

 extent than ever, both by students here and from other institutions. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 815 



At the annual meeting held December 17, the following were elected 

 to serve as officers for 1904 : 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Treasurer, . 



Recorder and Conservator , 



Secretary, . 



Philip Laurent. 

 H. W. Wenzel. 

 Ezra T. Cresson. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 Frank Haimbach. 

 Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



The Botanical Section. 



The Botanical Section reports that its meetings have been held regu- 

 larly during the year, with a fair attendance of members. 



A number of interesting and valuable communications have been 

 made, many of which have been repeated before the general meetings 

 of the Academy. , 



The Conservator reports that during the year considerable progress 

 has been made on the work of arranging the collections. Special effort 

 being directed to put in order the unmounted material which has accu- 

 mulated in recent years, resulting in the poisoning of about 15,000 

 sheets, w^hich have been mounted, numbered, catalogued and dis- 

 tributed in their proper places through the Herbarium. 



Early in the summer new cases were erected in the center of the 

 north room on the library floor. They are so arranged that their 

 tops form two tables, each eighteen feet long by three feet broad. 



This has added twenty-eight closets of twelve compartments each 

 to the Herbarium space, which has resulted in relieving the overcrowded 

 condition of a considerable portion of the collection. 



During the year all of the Authophytes have been rearranged to 

 conform to the family sequence of Engler and Prantl, commencing in 

 the new cases above referred to. sufficient space being left to allow for 

 additions to the families arranged in this room for some time to come. 



The cases in the south room are, however, still much crowded, and 

 will require additional cases for their relief. 



Dr. Krout began, during the summer, the arrangement of the 

 Mosses and Hepatics in the Academy's Herbarium. Thus far about 

 1.500 specimens having been put into pockets and mounted on 

 sheets; these have l^een placed in cases in the south gallery room. 




816 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



It is hoped to complete the arrangement of this portion of the col- 

 lection during the coming j^ear, so that it may be rendered available 

 for study. 



The additions to the Herbarium during the year have amoimted to 

 over 3,000 specimens; of these the Botanical Section has pm'chased 

 from the income of the Redfield Fund 951 — 693 of these from Mr. A. 

 A, Heller, collected by him in California diuing the past year, and 

 containing a nmnber of valuable additions in cotypes and specimens 

 from original type localities. The remaining 258 specimens were piu-- 

 cha«ed from Mr. Charles L. Pollard, collected by himself and Messrs. 

 William and Dr. Edward Palmer, in the Province of Santiago, Cuba, 

 dm-ing the early part of 1902 ; this collection also adds much of interest 

 to the Herbarium in the way of new material. 



The Academy has pm-chased 280 specimens of ^Mexican plants, 

 coUected by :\Ir. C. G. Pringle for 1901 and 1902. 



The Academj-'s expedition to Arkansas, Indian Territory and west- 

 ern Texas early in the year, under Dr. Pilsbry, brought back about 

 300 sheets of plants, which will form an interesting collection from 

 this region. The balance of the additions have been received as dona- 

 tions from sundry individuals, the most noteworthy being collections 

 from Washington and Idaho, presented by Mr. C. V, Piper; from Cali- 

 fornia and Xew Mexico, presented by Mr. C. F. Saunders; from the 

 northwestern United States and British Colmnbia, presented by Dr. 

 James Darrach, and a collection of Mosses from various parts of the 

 United States, presented by Mrs. Anne ]\Iorrill Smith, with others, a 

 detailed list of which will be found in the additions to the [Museum. 



The Conservator wishes to acknowledge assistance received in the 

 arranging of the collections from Miss Ada Allen, assistant in the 

 Herbarium, and Mr. Raymond Winter, a Jessup Fund beneficiary. 



The Philadelphia Botanical Club has continued to hold its meetings 

 in the Academy, its members having added about 300 specimens to 

 the local Herbarium during the year. 



At the meeting of the Section held Monday December 14. the 

 following were elected as its officers to serve for the ensuing year: 



Director, Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director, Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder, . . .... Dr. Ida A. Keller. 



Treasurer and Conservator, . . . Stcwardson Brown. 



Stewardsox Brown, 



Cm7seri alor. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 817 



The Ornithological Section. 



Dm'ing the past year the Conservator has completed the arrange- 

 ment of the moimted collection of water birds and GallinacesB in the 

 new Ornithological gallery, four additional cases having been provided 

 for their accommodation. Three other cases now about finished will 

 permit of the transference of the Ostriches and Birds of Prey early in 

 the coming year. The gallery was opened to the public on November 

 12, and has attracted much attention, as the specimens are dis- 

 played to far better advantage than formerly. Beside the labelling 

 of the individual specimens, large explanatory cards have been pre- 

 pared for the various families, giving their geographic distribution, 

 number of species and some of the most striking characteristics. 



The further systematic arrangement of the study collection of skins 

 has been facilitated by the provision of five tin cases and two large 

 wooden cases, so that the entire series is now preserved in modern 

 moth-proof cases, except the Anatidae, Tyrannidse, Cuculidse and Birds 

 of Prey. 



The overcrowded condition of several of the cases has also been 

 relieved. 



A fine series of California skins numbering about 700 specimens was 

 purchased by the Academy early in the year. The collection illus- 

 trates many of the plumages of our Western birds not hitherto repre- 

 sented, and contains quite a number of geographic races new to the 

 cabinet. 



In return for aid in identifying the collection of birds in the Philadel- 

 phia Commercial ^Museums, the Conservator obtained a fine series of 

 specimens from South America and Africa, of Avhich the Academy was 

 much in need. 



Another valuable collection was presented l^y j\Ir. Adolf van der 

 Wielen, and a fine collection of eggs of North Dakota birds was 

 received from Dr. William E. Hughes. 



The Delaware "S^alley Ornithological Club has added several speci- 

 mens of the now nearly complete collection of local birds and nests 

 presented some years ago. 



All the material received during the year has been catalogued and 

 labelled, making an addition of about 1,100 specimens. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania 

 Audubon Society have held their meetings in the building during the 

 jTar. and on November 16-19 the American Ornithologists' Union 




818 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



held their Annual Congress at the Academy, the meeting proving the 

 largest in the histor}^ of the organization. 



]\Iuch aid has been given during the year to ornithologists of other 

 institutions, both by loan and b}" placing our material at the disposal 

 of visiting students. 



In the work of the department the Conservator is much indebted to 

 Mr. J. A. G. Rehn for valuable assistance. 



The officers elected for the ensuing year are : 



Director, Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Vice-Director, 



Secretary, . 



Recorder, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



George Spencer ^lorris. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 Respectfully submitted. 



Wither Stone, 



Conservator. 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Committee 



held with the following result : 



as 



on Accounts to serve during 1904 w 



President, .... 

 Vice-Presidents, . 



Recording Secretary, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, .... 

 Librarian, .... 

 Curators, .... 



Councillors to serve three years 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 

 Arthur Erwin Bro"uai, 

 E. G. Conkhn, Ph.D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 

 George Vaux, Jr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Henry C. Chapman, M.D. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc. 



Committee on Accounts, 



C. Newlin Peirce, 

 PhiHp P. Calvert, Ph.D. 

 Thomas Bicldle, M.D. 

 Charles Morris, 

 Harold Wingate, 

 Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



* Vacancies unfilled out of respect to the memory of Dr. Charles Schaeffer, 

 who was nominated for these offices. 




1903 J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



819 



COUNCIL FOR 1904. 



i/x-o^ao.— Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., Edwn G. Conklin, Ph.D., 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 George VaiLx, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc, and Henry C. Chapman, 

 M.D. , 



To serve Three Years. — Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 

 Thomas Biddle, M.D. 



To serve Two Years. — Thomas A. Robinson, Charles Cramp, Charles 

 Morris and Isaac J. Wistar. 



To serve One Year. — Thomas Fenton, M.D., Edwin S. Dixon, John 

 Cadwalader and William Sellers. 



Curator of Mollusc a. 

 Assistant Librarian, 

 Assistants to the Curators, 



Taxidermist, 



Jessup Fund Students, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc. 

 William J. Fox. 

 Witmer Stone, 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 J. A. G. Rehn. 

 David McCadden. 



J. A. G. Rehn, 

 Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Janitors, 



Charles Clappier, 

 Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley. 




820 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ELECTIONS DURING 1903. 



MEMBERS. 



January 27. — James Spear, Jr., Edward B. Meigs, Henry A. Lang. 

 February 24. — Lucy H. Baird. 

 March 31.— Charles Z. Try on. 

 AjyrU 28.— John V. Shoemaker, M.D. 



October 20. — Edward G. Vanatta, Thomas Barbour, Frederick L. 

 Lewton, AUen J. Smith, M.D., Theodore Brooks. 

 November 17. — Morgan Hebard, Henry W. Fowler. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 27. — William Morton Wheeler, of Austin, Texas; Theodore 

 Bovari, of Wiirzburg. 



November 17. — Nestor Grehant, of Paris; Eduard Strasburger, of 

 Bonn; Hugo de Vries, of Amsterdam. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 821 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



Archeology and Ethnology. 



Col. George S. Anderson. Implements for collecting sap, Luzon, Philip- 

 pines. 



B. F. Donaldson. Arrow points and flint implements, San Marcos, Texas. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Many Indian antiquities from Florida, additions to 



the Clarence B. Moore Collection. Casts of the skulls and bones from Spy. 

 Lt. Hugh L. Willoughby. Seminole canoe from the Florida Everglades. 



Mammals. 



Thomas Biddle, M.D. Mounted specimens and skeletons of the Gorilla (An- 

 thropopitheais gorilla), Chimpanzee (A. niger), Bald Chimpanzee (A. calvus). 

 Chimpanzee (^4.. calvus?), Orang Utan {Simia satyrus) ; also skeletons of a yoiing 

 Orang Utan (S. satyrus) and ]Man. 



Stewardson Brown. One Bro-rni Bat, Eptesicus fuscus. 



P. P. Calvert, Ph.D. Brown Bat, Eptesicus fuscus. 



C. N. B. Camac, M.D. Skeleton of well-formed Negro, deposited in the 

 Museum by the late Dr. Camac. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Brain of Chimpanzee and Orang Utan and articulated 

 cranium of young Lion, placenta of Dasypus sexcinctus. 



W. E. Cram. Marmot skin (Arctomys) , New Hampshire. 



W. H. Fltjck. Ten Bats, Nicaragua. 



Geographical Club of Philadelphia. Whale skull, Nome, Alaska, collected 

 by Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 



H. C. KiRKPATRicK. Two skins, Blarina brevicauda. 



David McCadden. Albino Muskrat skin (Fiber zibethecus), four Bear skulls, 

 British Columbia. 



H. A. Pilsbrt, Sc.D. Two Bats, Texas and Arkansas. 



Purchased. Three Buffaloes (Bison bison), 325 skins and skulls of California 

 mammals, two Alaskan Sheep (Ovis dalli), skulls of Melursus labiatus and Felis 

 couguar hippolestes, 50 skins and skulls from Tamaulipas, Mexico, 3 Odocoileus, 

 Chihuahua. 



Samuel N. Rhoads. Several smaU mammals from Delaware, skins and 

 alcoholic. 



S. L. Schumo. Five immature Opossums, Coban, Nicaragua. 



W. Wernrich, Jr. Human foetus and foetus of Pig. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as indicated: 

 Mounted: Binturong, Arctictis binturong; two Coquerel's Dwarf Lemurs, 

 Microcebus coquereli. To be mounted: Tenrec, Centetes ecaudatus; two Javan 

 Cats, Felis javanensis; Grison, Grison vittata; Dasjoire, Dasyurus viverrinv^. 

 Skins and skulls: two Kangaroo Rats, Dipodomys spectabilis; two Peromyscus 

 trueil; Wood Rat, Neotoma micropus canescens; Raccoon, Procyon hemandezi; 




822 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



two Indian Civets, Vivericula malaccensis; Azara's Fox, Canis azarce; Corsac 

 Fox, Vulpes corsac; Black-footed Ferret, Putorius nigripes; Red Howling Mon- 

 key, Alouatta senicula; Sooty Mangaby, Cercocebus fuliginosus; two Doguera 

 Baboons, Pajrio doguera. Skin and Skeleton: Tenrec, Centetes ecaudotus; Sloth, 

 Bradyjms sp. Skulls: Prong-homed .Antelope, Antilocapra americana; Himal- 

 ajan Bear, Ursus thibetanus; Japanese Macaque, Macacus juscatus. Alcoholic: 

 Nyctinomus mexicanus; Papio cynocephalus juv.; Tatu novemcinctum. 



Birds. 



Lt.-Col. George S. Axderson. Three bird skins, Philippines. 



Thomas Biddle, M.D. Mounted Gallus sonerati. 



J. G. DiLLEN. Skin of Hawk Owl, Parrj"^ Sound. 



J. D. Gordon. Bam Owl, Strix pratincola. 



B. T. GrBBS, Jr. Two Reed Birds, Dolichonyx oryzivorus (skins). 



William E. Hughes, M.D. Collection of eggs, North Dakota. 



H. W. Hand. Short-eared Owl, Asio accipitrinus. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Mounted specimen Least Bittern, 

 Ardetta exilis; Two Turkey Vultures, Cathartes aura; Little Blue Heron, Ardea 

 coeruUa. 



J. P. NoRRis, Jr. Nest, eggs and skin of Dendroica auduboni nigrifrons. 



Charles B. Penrose, M.D. Hybrid Duck, Anas boschasxNettioncarolinen' 

 sis (skin). 



Samuel N. Rhoads. Ten bird skins, Delaware. 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer. Red-tailed Hawk, Buteo borealis ''skin). 



James Spear, Jr. Skins of White Ibis and Florida Cormorant. 



William D. Winsor. Two skins of Great Blue Heron, Ardea herodias. 



Adolf van der Wielen. A collection of skins from Pennsylvania, California 

 and Maine. 



Purchased. Four mounted Flamingos. Phcenicopterus ruber; seven hundred 

 Califomian bird skins. 



Philadelphia Commercial Museums. Collection of bird skins from South 

 America and Africa, received in return for identifications. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 Skins: Gray Struthidea, Struihidea cinerea; Red-shafted Flicker, Colaptes 

 cafer; two Meadow Larks, Sturnella magna hoopesi; Crested Hangnest, Ostinops 

 decumaniis; two Parrots, Callocephalon galeatum; Lorius garmlus; Cotumix 

 pecforalis; Myadestes unicolor; Passer luteus; Bare-throated Francolin, Ptemistes 

 leucoscepus; Chrysalis vinacea; Palceornis longicauda; Aprosmictus erythrop' 

 tents; two Hanging Parakeets, Loriculus stigmatus; Sordid Parrot, Pionus 

 sordidus. SkuU and sternum: Mexican Black Hawk, Hawk-headed Parrot. 

 Several birds' nests from Pecos, Texas. 



Reptiles and Bateachiaks. 



Miss Fanny Batten. Two specimens of Phrynosoma comutum, Texas. 

 C. R. Biederman. Eublepharis variegatus, Arizona. 

 Charles C^appier. Several specimens of Pleihodon erythronotus. 

 Miss L. Fell. Two Phrynosoma cornutum. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 823 



W. H. Fluck. Collection of reptiles from Nicaragua. 



John A. Leary. Several Typhlomolge rathhuni, San Marcos, Texas. 



Miss Josephine McMenamin. Young Alligator. 



Edtv. a. McIlhenny. A series of three-toed Box Tortoises, Terrapcne triun- 

 guis. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. A collection of reptiles and batrachians from Missouri, 

 Arkansas, Indian Territory and Texas. 



J. A. G. Rehx. OpJu'bolus rhomhomaculatus , Marj-land, and Agkistrodon con- 

 tortrix, Lehigh county, Pennsylvania. 



S. N. Rhoads. Two batrachians and several reptiles from Delaware. 



C. T. Sands. A collection of Ophidia from Fairfax county, Virginia, and four 

 specimens from Mt. Pocono, Penns5dvania. 



Witjier Stone. Storeria occipitomaculata, New Jersey; several Salamanders, 

 Delaware. 



S. L. ScHUJio. Diadophis piinctaius, Philadelphia. 



H. L. ViERECK. Thirteen reptiles and batrachians, southern New Jersey. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Rattlesnake, Crotalus sp.; Testudo 

 cnlcarata, Abj^ssinia; Sternofhrenis nigricans; Tumpinambis ieguexin. 



Fishes. 



H. C. CHAPiiAN, M.D. Seven species of fish. 



Exchange. With- Stanford University, a large series of Japanese fishes. 



G. J. Ent. Chcetodipterus faber, Anglesea, New Jersey. 



W. H. Flxjck. a series of fishes from Nicaragua. 



H. W. FoW'Ler. Six Porgies, a ]\lullet and specimen of Pomolobus; collection 

 of small fishes from Trenton, New Jersey. 



A. GuLiCK. Two Lanceolets, Bermuda. 



H. Walker Hand. Two Squaliis acanthus, Cape May, New Jersey. 

 , J. P. Moore. Three Gymnosarda alliterata, Woods Hole, Mass. 



J. L. Nicholson. Specimen of Lopholatilus chamoeleonticeps. Gulf Stream. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, Sc.D. Small collection of fish from Texas. 



Purchased. Small series of Mexican fishes. 



S. N. Rhoads. Achirus fasciatus and Eupomotis gibbosus, Sussex county, 

 Delaware; also dried head of Lepisosteus osseus. 



Benjamin Sharp, M.D. Twenty-two species of fish from Nantucket, Massa- 

 chusetts. 



James Spear, Jr. A collection of fishes from the coast of Florida. 



U. S. Fish Commission. Collection of fishes from Hawaiian Islands. 



H. L. Viereck. Mugil curema and Ammodijtes ameficanus, Cape May, New 

 Jersey. 



H. T. Wolf. A small collection of fishes from Dingman's Ferry, Pennsylvania. 



MOLLUSKS. 



John A. Allen. Eleven species of American shells. 



C. F. Ancey. Ten species of land and fresh-water shells. 



Paul Bartsch. Sonorella walcoftiana Bartsch from California. 



Charles Baum, M.D. Pohjgyra albolabris Say from Morristown, New Jersey. 




824 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



C. R. BiEDERMAX. Two specics of land shells from Reef, Arizona. 



A. C. BiLLUPS. Polygijra harhigera Redf. from South Carolina. 



A. C. BoYER and J. A. Shulze. Five species of fresh-water shells from South 

 America. 



F. H. Brown. Four species of land and marine shells from New Jersey and 

 Pennsylvania. 



L. B. Browx. Thirty-three species of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Barbados. 



Stewardsox Browx. Four species of land shells from Lancaster county, 

 Pennsylvania. 



OwEX Bryaxt. Seven species of shells from Bermuda. 



Fred L. Buttox. Six species of American shells. 



P. P. Calvert, Ph.D. Two species of marine shells from Nahant, Massachu- 

 setts. 



A. J. Carsox. Mya arenaria L. from San Francisco county, California. 



H. C. Chapxl^x*, M.D. TwentA'-nine species of moUusca in alcohol from Naples 

 and Bar Harbor, ]VIaine. 



George H. Clapp. Tv-pes of Pimctum clappi Pils. and two species of 

 Ampullaria. 



J. M. Clarke. Helix hortensis MiiU. from Canada. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Thirty-one species of land shells from Mexico and New 

 Mexico. 



H. S. CoLTOx. Sixtj^-five trays of land and marine shells from Maine and 

 Pennsj'lvania. 



CH.4.RLES H. CoxxER. Nine species of Unionidse from the Delaware river, 

 New Jersey. 



Miss Mary Cooper. Twenty-two species of land shells from New i\Iexico in 

 exchange. 



Prof. W. H. Dall. Anodonta coarctata Ant. from Mexico. 



L. E. Daxiels. Four trays of land shells from Indiana. 



Edw. Dietrich. Five species of land and marine shells from Siquijor. 



H. E. DoRE. Vitrea cellan'a Mlill. from Portland, Oregon. 



Prof. Arthur M. Edwmrds. Five species of land shells from Bermuda. 



V. N. Edwards. Sixteen jars of New England Nudibranchs. 



Sir Charles Eliot. Forty-three lots of shells from Zanzibar and East Africa. 



Capt. F. Ericksen. Tliree species of marine shells from New Caledonia. 



John Ford. Cyprcea caurica oblongata Melv. 



L. S. Frierson. Five specimens of Unionid.'B from Alabama and Louisiana. 



Mrs. M. S. Goodiian. Epiphragmophora fidelis Gray from Portland, Oregon. 



A. GuTiiCK;. One hulidred and twenty-four species of land and marine shells 

 from Bermuda and Japan. 



S. H. Hamiltox. Pohjgyra albolabi-is Say from Bucks county, Pennsylvania. 



A. C. Harrisox, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. Sixteen species of Sumatran 

 sheUs. 



Charles Hedley. Nine species of marine shells from New South Wales. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Archegocoptis crenata from Haiti. 



Henry Hemphill. Collection of land snails from the islands off California. 



Dr. H. M. Hiller. Eight species of Cuban land shells. 



Y. HiRASE. Two hundred and seventy lots of Japanese land shells. 



P. W. Jarvis. Seven species of Jamaican land shells. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 825 



Howard Jones. Eight Atlantic City marine shells. 



W. H. Jones. Ten lots of marine shells from Peru. 



Dr. Ida A. Keller. Two species of marine shells from Sea Isle City, New 

 Jersey. 



George F. Kuxz. Five species of land and fresh-water shells from Hartman's 

 Cave, Pennsylvania. 



Edwin H. H. Lewis. Twelve lots of American shells. 



J. G. Malone. Twenty-three species of marine and fresh- water shells from 

 Bahia, Brazil, and Seattle, Washington. 



Albert G. May. Bythinia tentaculata L. from Syracuse, Xew York. 



R. C. McGregor. Twenty-two lots of Hawaiian land and fresh-water shells. 



E. A. McIlhexxy. Thirty-nine lots of Alaskan shells. 



Milwakuee Public Museum. One hundred and twenty lots of fresh-water 

 shells. 



Clarence B. Moore. Twenty-one lots of marine shells from Florida. 



O. A. Nylander. Three species of fresh-water shells from Maine. 



Philadelphi.v C0MMERCI.A.L Museums. Ninety-nine lots of shells. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, Sc.D. Six hundred and sixty lots of land and fresh-water shells. 



Purchased. Seventy-six lots of shells from S. X. Rhoads, and Sowerby and 

 Fulton. 



J. A. G. Rehx. Three trays of land shells from Pennsylvania. 



S. N. Rhoads. Ninety-four lots of land and fresh-water shells from eastern 

 United States and Mexico. 



J. Ritchie. Jr. One Plecfotropis from Assam. 



W. H. Rush, M.D. Thirty-nine lots of shells from the Philippine Islands. 



H. E. Sargent. Four lots of American land shells. 



Silas L. Schumo. One hundred and thirty-one lots of marine shells from 

 the West Indies. 



C. T. Simpson. Thirteen species of land and fresh-water shells from Haiti 

 and Jamaica. 



Bexjamix' H. Smith. Planorbis dilatatus Gld. from ^McCall's Ferrj% Pa. 

 Burx'et Smith. Fidgur canaliculata from Atlantic City, New Jerse)^ 

 V. C. Smith. Two species of marine shells from Florida. 

 R. E. Sxodgrass. Thirteen lots of land and fresh-water shells from Wash- 

 ington. 



James Spear, Jr. Fourteen lots of marine shells from Florida. 



Witmer Stoxe. Two species of land shells from Essington, Pennsylvania. 



H. Stupakoff. Four lots of land shells from Swissvale, Pennsylvania. 



D. Thaanum. Twenty-three lots of marine shells from Hawaii, New Guinea 

 and Queensland. 



Max Uhle. Conns fergnsoni Sowb., from Peru. 



H. L. ViERECK. Three species of fresh-water and marine shells from eastern 

 United States. 



Bryant Walker. Fifteen lots of American land and fresh-water shells. 



Prof. H. Ward. Three lots of American fresh-water shells. 



Joseph Willcox. Nine species of land and fresh-water shells from Kis- 

 simmee river, Florida. 



H. T. Wolf. Two species of American N^eritina. 



B. B. Woodward. Four lots of European Vitrea. 




826 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dt'C. 



L. WooLMAN. Four trays of New Jersey marine shells. 

 Prof. A. A. Wright. Mactra plicataria L. 



Insects. 



R. Lewis Bender, atheroma regalis, New Jersey. 



AViLLiAM Beutenmuller. Sixteen Coleoptera, North Carolina 



C. A. Blake (Heirs of). Six thousand Lepidoptera. 



J. C. Bradley. Nine Orthoptera, Pennsylvania and New Jersej^. 

 A. E. Brown. Nests of Polistes texanus, Pecos, Texas. 



D. M. Castle. Thirty-four Coleoptera, Florida; seventy Hemiptera, Florida: 

 twenty-five miscellaneous, Florida. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Five hundred and ninetj'-six Hymenoptera, New Mex- 

 ico; twenty-one Orthoptera, Aleyrodes vitrinellus (type), Mexico. 

 J. C. Crawford. Eight Hymenoptera, Costa Rica. 



E. T. Cresson. Thirty Hymenoptera, Utah. 



E. Daecke. One Moth. 



A. Fenyes. Three Coleoptera, southern California (exch.). 



W. J. Fox. One Coleoptera, Pennsylvania. 



W. H. Flt7ck. Twenty-six vials of insects, Nicaragua. 



G. Franck. Three Heterocera, Florida. 



C. B. Hardenburg. Eight Coleoptera, Mexico. 



Morgan Hebard. Four Coleoptera, Georgia; one thousand and six Orthop- 

 tera, Michigan; ninety-two Orthoptera, Pennsylvania; one hundred and twenty- 

 seven butterflies, Japan. 



H. M. Hiller. Seventy-two insects from Cuba. 



N. W. Janney. Seven hundred and ten Coleoptera, Pennsylvania. 



W. D. Kearfott. Eight Lepidoptera, U. S. 



Philip Laurent. Four Heterocera, Florida. 



L. W. Mengel. Eleven Heterocera, Asia. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. One hundred insects, Indian Territory. 



Edw. Potts. Three insects, U. S. 



F. L. Rehn. One Orthoptera, one Hymenoptera, Delaware countj^, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



J. A. G. PlEhn. One hundred and thirty-six Orthoptera, Ocean county. New 

 Jersey; one hundred and nineteen Orthoptera, Tinicum, Delaware county, Penn- 

 sylvania; two Orthoptera, Maryland. 



S. N. Rhoads. Fifteen Odonata, Mexico; forty Odonata, Delaware. 



Charles Robertson. Three Hymenoptera, Illinois. 



C. T. Sands. Two Coleoptera, Virginia. 



F. G. ScHAUPP. Collection Orthoptera and Odonata from Texas, sixty-two 

 specimens. 



Burnett Smith. Three Ticks, Pennsylvania. 



Thomas Spalding. Eight Myrmeleons, Utah. 



WiTMER Stone. Sixteen Orthoptera and Diptera, Pennsylvania. 



U. S. National Museum. Sixty-three exotic Orthoptera (exch.). 



E. C. Van Dyke. Forty-eight Coleoptera, California. 



H. L. ViERECK. One thousand five hundred and fifty-four Hj'menoptera, one 

 hundred Orthoptera, one hundred and seventy-five Lepidoptera, one hundred and 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 827 



thirty-seven Neuroptera, seventy-five Coleoptera, eight hundred and thirty-eight 

 miscellaneous, United States. 



E. M. Walker. Four Orthoptera, Canada. 



H. W. Wenzel. One Coleoptera, New Jersey. 



Joseph Willcox. Fifty insects, Florida. 



H. F. Wolf. One specimen, Pennsylvania. 



W. M. Wheeler. Small collection of Orthoptera. 



The following were purchased: 



J. C. Bradley. Two hundred and fiftv HAanenoptera, Japan. 



L. Bruner. One hundred and ninety-five Orthoptera, Argentina. 



Y. Hirase. Three himdred and fifty-three Orthoptera, Japan. 



J. F. McClendon. Two hundred and ninety Orthoptera, Mexico. 



C. F. Underwood. Eight hundred and forty-seven Hymenoptera, Costa Rica. 



C. R. Biederman, Two thousand five hundred insects, Arizona. 



Worms. 



John Allen. Bi/palium Kewense. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Six bottles of Pohjchceta and Tearnica branchialis. 



J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. Eleven bottles of Polychceta, Woods Hole, Massachu- 

 setts, and two of Tomopteris, Mermis, Woodbury, New Jersey. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Two earthworms, Arkansas and Missouri. 



S. N. RnoADS. Filaria from Dendroica coerulea and earthworms from Mexico. 



WiTMER Stone. Placobdella, New Jersey. 



U. S. Fish Commission. One hundred and twenty-one bottles of Polychceta 

 (co types), Japan. 



E. G. Vanatta. Eisenia foetida, Maryland. 



Joseph Willcox. Four earthworms, Florida and Georgia. Ascaris and 

 Meroscolea. 



Other Invertebrates. 



Charles W. Buvinger. Two Crabs, Atlantic City, New Jersey. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Forty-two jars of invertebrates from Naples. 



E. A. Daniels, M.D. Crossaster papposus, Dark Harbor, Maine. 



Edw. Dietrich. Two Sponges from Siquijor. 



Sir Charles Eliot. Four jars of Echinoderms and seven Crabs, Zanzibar. 



Capt. F. Ericksen. Lysiosquilla maculata, New Caledonia. 



Rev. W. H. Fluck. Several invertebrates, Nicaragua. 



Mrs. T. C. Henry. Lepas sp. from Spring Lake, New Jersey. 



Mrs. E. M. Gaylord. Waldheimia grayi. 



H. M. Hiller, M.D. Hermit Crab, Cuba. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, Sc.D. Palcemon jamaicensis, Del Rio, Texas. 



J. G. Malone. Two species of Terebraiella, Mary Island, Alaska. 



S. N. Rhoads. Several invertebrates from Monterey, Mexico. 



James Spear, Jr. A collection of Crustacea, etc., Florida. 



H. L. ViERECK. Balanus eburneus, from Seaside Park, New Jersey. 



Joseph Willcox. Sponge and Cambarus from Florida. 




828 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



Grand TiODGE of Pennsylvania, F. and A. M. (Committee on Library), 

 A collection of mammalian fossils and several Turtles from Nebraska. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Daniel Baugh. Clypeaster cegypticus and Nummulites gizehensis,' 'Egypt. 



Thoalvs L. Casey. Fourteen trays of fossils, Vicksburg, Mississippi. 



Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, F. and A. M. (Committee on Library). 

 A number of specimens from Nebraska. 



Henry Merrihew. Several specimens of fossils. 



H. A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. Three Exogyra arietina and twelve other fossils from 

 southwestern United States. 



John Ross. Six Echinoderms and mollusks collected by Fraser Cristie. 



Rev. C. H. B. Turner. Collection of fossiliferous pebbles, Lewes, Delaware. 



H. A. Walters. Two fossils from British Columbia. 



Joseph Willcox, Area idonea from St. Mary's, Maryland, and a series of 

 fossil mollusks from Florida. 



Minerals, etc. 



C. R. Biederman. Ten double-terminated quartz crystals and specimen of 

 Alunite, New Mexico; Gold quartz, Copper river, Alaska. 



Capt. F. Ericksen. Chrome ore with silver and nickel. 



Joseph Finney. Chalcopj-rite, Pyrrhotite and Cuprite, Holland, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



Ariel Harrison. Fulgurite, Malaga, New Jersey. 



E. S. Lemmon. Collection of minerals and rock specimens. 



John Ross. SmaU collection of minerals. 



S. L. Schumo. Bottle of volcanic dust from Mt. Pelee eruption. 



Joseph Willcox. Selenite, St. Mary's, Florida. 



Plants. 



Stewardsox Brown. Two hundred and fifty Pennsylvania and New Jersey 

 plants. 



BoT.^NiCAL Section. Three hundred and twentj'-five species from Porto 

 Rico, six hundred and ninety-three species from California, two hundred and fiftj"-- 

 eight from Cuba. 



William M. Canby. Twenty-nine sheets of CraUegus. 



Joseph Crawford. One hundred and fifty sheets of Carices. 



James Darrach, M.D. Fifty sheets of plants from northwestern United 

 States and British Columbia. 



J. W. Eckfeldt, M.D. Fifty-seven species of Lichens. 



J. H. Ferriss. Collection of Ferns and flowering plants, Texas. 



J. W. Harshbk rger, Ph .D. Fifty-five plants, North Carolina mountains. 



A. A. Jones, M.D. PhyUanthvs vallidifolius. 



A. F. K. Kraut. Twenty-seven species of Mosses. 




1903.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 829 



Ida a. Iveller, Ph.D. Two specimens of Azalea. 



C. V. Piper. Collection of Washington plants, one hundred and ninety-eight 

 species. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Collection of plants from Indian Territory and Texas. 



Edw. Potts. Linaria vulgaris. 



Purchased. Two hundred and eighty plants from Mexico. 



S. N. Rhoads. Fifty species from Mexico. 



S. L. ScHUMO. Fruit of Mahogany, Antigua, and specimen of Tillandsia 

 recurvata, St. Kitts, and two West Indian plants. 



Mrs. a. M. Smith. One hundred and seven species of Mosses. 



C. F. Saunders. One hundred and twenty plants, New Mexico and California. 



Wither Stone. One hundred Pennsylvania and New Jersey plants. 



William Trimble, M.D. Hybrid Walnut, leaf and fruit. 



C. S. Williamson. One hundred and thirty-one species of plants, Catskill 

 Mountains. 



U. S. National Museum. Ten species Violets. 




830 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



INDEX TO SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND REFERRED TO 

 IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1903. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 

 italic numerals. 



Abastor 557 



Abies con color lowiana 6 



magnifica shastensis 5 



Abra 262 



sequalis 757 



mississippiensis 262 



perovata 262 



protexta 262 



Acanthinala 764 



Acarina 138, 367 



Acaropsis 532 



Acer macrophyllum 5 



Acestrorhamphus 527 



hepsetus 527 



Acestrorhynchus 527 



falcatus 527 



Achatinidse 204 



Acheta abbreviata 45 



Achirus 3.50 



jenynsii 535 



Acilivis sulcatus 54 



Acoetidse 423 



Aeolus 82 



Acolvides 82 



Acris grjdlus 539 



Acrosonia 60 



arniatum 341 



gracile 119, 129, 132 



Actinocephalidse 640 



Actinocephalus americanus 636, 640 



dujardini 44, 55, 640-642 



harpali 637, 640-642 



Actinolite 397 



Acutispora 632, 643 



macrocephala 632,640-642 



Acyclus 390 



^Equidens 532 



dorsigera 534 



paraguayensis 534 



syspilus 534 



tetramerus 534 



Aeronautes melanoleucus 27 



Aeschna 760 



Agalena 60, 139 



labyrinthica 128, 129, 133, 136 



nEevia 97, 129, 133 



similis 128, 129, 133, 136 



Agalenidre 60, 1.30, 140, 142 



Agkistrodon contortrix 542 



Agonostoma percoides 748 



Agonostomus monticola 748 



Agriolimax campestris 626 



Agrioposphyrrena 749 



Aimophila ruficeps scottii 28 



Alcimosphenus licinus 341 



Alligator 557 



mississippiensis 553 



Alnus 353 



glutinosa 353 



incana 353 



serrulata 353 



sp 5 



undulata 353 



Amalia 626 



Amelia alata 703 



decolor 703 



spallanzania 703 



Ameles 702 



abjecta 703 



aurantiaca 702 



flavicincta 702 



malaccana 703 



minima 702, 703 



nana 702 



Ammophila arenaria 355, 356 



Amnicola 780 



coronata var. unicarinata 780 



guatemalensis 781 



panamensis 781 



stolli 781 



tr3^oni 781 



Amnicolidse 780 



Ampelopsis 99 



Ampharetidaj ._ 478 



Amphiardis 556 



inornatus 553 




1903.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



831 



Amphicteis japonica 478 



Amphictcnidse 479 



Amphinome 793, 794 



pallasii 793 



rostrata 793 



Amphinomidfe 426 



Amphispiza bilineata deserticola.. 28 



Amphitrite 725 



bifurcata 471 



cirrata 473 



johnstoni 472 



ornata 725 



Amphoroides fontariaj 43, 53, 640 



Anadenulus 628 



Anax 760 



Ancistrodon contortrix 551, 554, 556 



piscivorus, 554, 556 



Ancistrogaster 308 



gulosa 308 



luctuosus ■.... 308 



tolteca 308 



Ancistrus cirrhosus dubius .504 



Ancylidse 777 



Ancylus excentricus 777 



haldemani 777 



papillaris 777 



Anisodonta elliptica 756 



Anisogamia 179 



Anisolabis 301,304 



annulipes 304 



antoni 305 



maritima 304 



moesta 304 



Annelida 372 



Anniella 556 



texana 552 



Anodus latior 511 



Anolis 557 



principalis 554 



Anomia simplex 756 



Anostomus fasciatus 5, 12 



Anota modesta 30, 32 



Antennariida; 172 



Antennarius argus 172 



bigibbus 175 



nigromaculatus 174 



phymatodes 174 



tuberosus 174 



Anthropoids 719 



Anypha^na gracilipes 340, 342 



Aphrodita australis 423 



japonica 423 



Aphroditidse 420 



Aphyocarax alburnus 516, 517 



anisitsi 517 



dentatus 516 



pusillus 516 



Apsilus 364, 383-385, 390, 391 



bipera 364,365 



bucinedax 365-367, 391 



Icntiformis 364-368, 371, 373 



Apsilus vorax 365, 366 



Apterygida 310 



linearis 310, 311 



calif ornica 310 



Arbutus menziesi 5 



Area campechiensis 756 



delicatula 265 



incongrua 756 



invidiosa 264, 265 



lesueuri 265 



mississippiensis 265 



ponderosa 756 



rhomboidella 264,266 



secticostata 756 



transversa 756 



vaughani 265, 266 



Archocentrus 533 



Ardea herodias herodias 6 



Arenivaga 181, 185 



Argenna 129 



Argiope 130 



Argyrodes argyrodes 340 



trituberculatus 340 



Argyroepeira argj-ra 340 



bigibbosa 341 



Argyroneta aquatica 129 



Argyronetidse 130 



Aricia fimbriata 464 



Ariciida; 464 



Ariolimacina? 628 



Arionidse 628 



Arizona 556 



elegans 549, 553 



Aroniochelys carinatus 554 



odoratus 540 



tristycha 540 



Asagena serratipes 130, 133 



Ashmunella 615,616 



ashmuni 616 



pecosensis 016 



thomsoniana 615 



t. cooperaj 615, 616 



t. porteraj 615, 616 



Aspidonectes emoryi 553 



ferox 553 



Aspidontus tseniatus 170, 172 



tractus ■•• 170 



AsplanchnidfP 305 



Asterophora cratoparis 54, 640 



philica 53,640 



Asthenotoma 276 



Astragalinus psaltria 27 



p. psaltria 10 



Astronotus 532 



Atheina sarda 730 



Atherina 727,731 



corneda 730 



hepsetus 727 



lacustris 727,728 



laticeps 730 



laticlavia 734,735 




832 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Atherina regia 734 



sardinella 729 



storeri 739 



Atherinichthys californiensis 739 



guatemalensis 736 



laticlavia 734 



regia var. laticlavia 735 



Atherinidse 727 



Atherininse 727 



Atherinomorus 730 



Atherinops afHnis 741 



magdalente 740 



Atherinopsiina> 737 



Atherinopsis 739 



californiensis 739, 740 



Atrina rigida 756 



serrata 756 



Attidse 129, 130, 141 



Attiis scenicus 129 



Atypus piceus 145 



Auchenipterus nigripennis 501 



Aulacopoda 628 



AuriculidfP 776 



Auriparus flaviceps 29 



-Asiothea campanulata 481, 485 



Aj'slia tenuis 340 



Baeus 82 



Baiostoma 350 



branchialis 350 



lineatus 350 



Balistapus aculeatus 162 



Balistes aculeatus 162 



Balistidse 162 



Barissia 556 



imbricata 552 



Barnea costata 757 



Basilichthys 734 



microiepidotus 735 



regia 734,735 



Bifidaria armifera 204 



contracta 204,766 



curvidens 762, 766 



pellucida hordeacella 766 



prototypus 766 



Binne3^a....! 628 



Biotite 399 



Biotodoma 533 



trifasciatus 535 



Biotoecus 533 



Blenniidse 170 



Blepharis elegans 717 



Boggiania 533 



Boletophagus cornutus 48 



Bonasa umbellus sabinei 6, 15 



Boops 313 



Borsonia 275 



plcnta 275 



Bothriopsis histrio 54, 640 



Bothropolys aztecus 152 



chumasanus 152, 154 



monticola 152 



Bothropolj's sierravagus 152, 154 



Brycon hilarii 523 



Bufo punctatus 34 



valliceps 538 



Bulimulidce 204,764 



Bulimulus alternatus mariae 764 



dealbatus 204, 764 



d. var. ragsdalei 204 



d. schiedeanus 764 



Bullus occidentalis 757 



Bunocephalus bicolor 498, 499 



gronovii 499 



rugosus 498 



Bursa abbreviata 279 



mississippiensis 279 



Buteo borealis calurus 7 



Caecum cooperi 758 



pulchellum 758 



Calamospiza nielanocorys 28 



Calamus bajovado 331 



Calidomantis 713 



equalis 713 



menelekii 713 



semialata 713 



Callichth3^s callichthys hsemaph- 



ractus 504 



Callipepla squamata 26 



Callista nimbosa 757 



Calyculina 784 



Camponotus 218 



Cancellaria reticulata 757 



Capulus 283 



americanus 283 



Carangid^e 328 



Cardita aldrichi 264 



floridana 756 



Cardium isocardium 757 



mortoni 757 



muricatum 757 



robustum 757 



serratum 757 



Carphophiops vermis 542 



Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis.... 27 



purpureus californicus 10 



Carychium exiguum mexicanum.... 776 



Cassis inflata 758 



Cathartes aura 26 



Catherpes mexicanus conspersus.... 29 



Ceanothus americanus 353-356 



Cemophora 557 



Centrias 565, 588, 591, 592, 608,611 



Centrobranchus 754 



chcerocephalus 754, 755 



Ceophlcpus pileatus abieticola S 



Cephalacanthidae 169 



Cepben 564, 604 



Ceratina arizoni asis 252 



nanula 252 



Cerion 194 



Certhia amerieana zelotes 12, 15 



Cervle alcvon 7 




1903.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 



833 



Chtetobranchopsis 532 



Chffitobranchus 531 



Clijetodon A^espertilio 161 



Chsetozone abrauchiata -170 



spinosa 468, 471 



Chalceus hilarii 523 



orbignyanus 523 



Chalcinus angulatus curtus 524 



Chaina arcinella 757 



Characiiius gibbosus 525 



squamosus o2o, 526 



Cheilichthys 333 



testudineus 333,350 



Cheirodon annte 515 



insignis 515 



interruptus 514, 519 



pisciculus 515 



Chelydra serpentina 552 



Chiracanthiuni inclusum 340 



oncognathus 129, 133 



Chironeetes tuberosus 174 



Chiropus 702 



dives 702 



insidiator 702 



Chirostoma 730 



californiense 739 



guatemalensis 736 



laticlavia 73^ 



Chloeiaflava 426 



ChlorhsemidEe 487 



Chlorite 397 



Chlorite-gneiss 399 



Choeradodis 712 



Chondropoma martensianum 780 



Chordeiles acutipennis texensis 26 



Chrysemvs elegans 544, 553, 556 



mobilensis 544, 554, 556 



ornata 552 



Cichla 532 



Cichlidaj 321, 349, 531 



Cichlosoma 532,533 



Cinclus mexicanus 12 



Cinosternum flavescens 543, 544, 552 



pennsylvanicum 543 



Circinaria concava 204 



Circinariidtp 204 



Cirratulida; 467 



Cirratulus abranchiatus 470 



gibbosus 467 



Cistenides hj^perborea 479 



Citellus grammurus 21 



marginatus 21 



mexicanus parvidens 21 



spilosoma arens 20 



tridecemlineatus pallidus 21 



Clausilia 315 



a^nea 317 



aratorum 316, 317, 318 



awajiensis 315 



bilabrata var. tosaensis 318 



echicogensis 318 



Clausilia ischna 315, 316 



i. var. neptis 315, 316 



japonica 319 



j. var. perstriata 319 



micropeas 317 



platyauchen 318 



platydera 318 



platyderula 318 



sadoensis 315 



shikokuensis 316 



s. var. inokucbiensis 316 



sus 316 



tosana 317, 318 



validiuscula 316 



ClausiliidEe 205 



Clavella 267 



Clepsidrina blattarum Jf.Jf. 



Clubiona conita 136 



trivialis 129, 133 



Clj'mene niirabilonga 480 



Cnemidophorus 558 



grahami 33, 547, 553 



gularis..30, 32, 33, 540, 547, 548, 



552 



perplexus 547, 552, 556 



sexlineatus 33, 547, 554, 556 



s. perplexus 547 



s. sexlineatus 546, 547, 548 



tessellatus 30, 33, 547, 548, 552 



t. tessellatus 548 



Cnemidospora spiroboli....63S, 640-643 



Cochlespira 279 



Cochlespirella 279 



insignifica 279 



Cochlicopa lubrica 204 



Cochliodon cochliodon 503 



Colaptes cafer saturatior 9, 15 



Colossoma 530 



brachvpomus 530 



Coluber....: 557 



bairdi 553 



emorvi 549, 553 



infernalis 287, 292, 293, 296 



obsoletus lindheimeri 549, 553 



parietalis 2S1,292 



sirtalis 292 



subocularis 549, 553 



Columbella avara 757 



obesa 758 



Colymbetes fuscus 54 



Conodon 348 



antillanus 348 



plumieri 348,349 



Conomitra staminea 282 



Contia 556 



episcopa 34 



e. episcopa 550, 553 



e. isozona 553 



taylori 553 



Conus alveatus 279 



scopularis 279 




834 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Corbula aliformis 261 | 



alta 261 



filosa If 



gibbosa ;"J 



laqueata -"| 



interstriata ^oi 



perdubia ^^^ 



Cordieria -^^ 



biconica ;^^^ 



ludoviciana "iP 



plicata ji^ 



Coronella fimbriata •^''^ 



Corvus americanus hesperus lU 



corax sinuatus ^' 



cryptoleucus AL 



Corydidse ^^ 



Corydoras acutus ^^^ 



'seneus '2^^ 



ampliibelus -^^b 



armatus ■■- f^ ' 



aurofrenatus 506, o^i 



elegans ^^5 j 



eqiies ^JJ^ i 



hastatus ■-■_ fl^ 



microps St'S 



nattereri oU5, W/ 



paleatus ■-- JUb 



punctatus •^°^' ?nt ' 



splendens ■-- ^^5 i 



trilineatus ■ o06, 5U8 



Coscinodiscus asteromphalus 6 



subtilis 



CrassineUa lunulata '.^o 



Crataegus ^%%_ 



Cratogeomys castanops -f \ 



Cratoparislunatus ^-i i 



Cremastogaster -■- fi%^ \ 



lineolatus 228, 4Jd 



Crenicara '^^^ i 



Crenicichla i'i'i 



lepidota 'Ifi 



saxatilis 2.^ 



Crepidula aculeata ' g 



fornicata '^^ 



plana 1. 



Crotalopliorus edwardsl 5.33 



Crotalus - ^^^ 



adamanteus atrox '^^>Ji- 



atrox 62o 



a atrox 551, 55o 



confluentus.;....30, 33, 551, 553, 625 



borridus 542,554 



lepidus o"rr^ a%i. 



molossus 553, 55b, bg 



pulverulentus ^^ 



scutulatus •_•- »g 



Crotaphytus ■^7^■ JVt,' -% 



bailevi 544,545,050 



clarki i baileyi •■••"•■;•• '; ■; r ceo 



collaris 540,544,545,552 



collaris baileyi ^^ 



372 

 223 

 759 



Crotaphytus reticulatus...........-.^^;- 553 



wisiizenii 30, 31, 545, 552, 556 



Crustacea 



Cryptocerus 



Cuna concentrica 



dalli 7o6,7o8 



particula..... '-^ 



Cupelopagis bucmedax • ^o* 



Curimatella alburnus australe olU 



Curimatus alburnus ^lU 



alburnus var. lineatus ^ju 



bahiensis ■-- ^}J 



bimaculatus ^''^"' ^Jq 



elegans paraguayensis. 



511 



gilbert! ^j" 



gill" tlS 



nasus *;.„ 



spilurus "^rl 



Cyanocitta ^ j. 



stelleri carbonacea »> ^^ 



s. i'rontalis ^ 



Cybele albopalpus oai bil 



haytiensis ofi^ 



Cvclas curtus •-■■ -^^ 



Cyclophis ffistivus OJ*, ^^o 



Cvclosa walckenaen ^„ 



Cylichnella bidentata '-^^ 



Cj'nodon ^allpinus ^"^ 



Cjmomj^s arizonensis ^^ 



Cvnopotamus knen ^>-d 



Cynorta obscura ^|^ 



v-album ^^^ 



Cyprinodontidte 'jy 



Dactylophovidffi "^^u 



Dactylopterus onentalis ^^^ 



Danuria „.„ 



thunbergi i^^ 



Daphnella "^'t 



Dasylirion „ ' 



Delphiuapterus ^|^ 



leucas ^.,0 



Delphinus albicans ^|^ 



delphis f\ 



feres fl 



phocena ^^ 



siculus ^^ , 



;sSS''"!:;::;:::::::::::::3iS,3i4 



I Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus 6, lo 



1 Dendroica auduboni 7^7 



Dentalium disparile '^'^' 



mississippiense ^, 



1 opaculum ^JJ^ 



i polygonum -»' 



strenuum 5^" 



I zephyrinum ■-- f* 



\ Deroplatys '^"' 'tt 



angustata l^^ 



desiccata ' _ 



Diabase V-V,"rKo c=« 



Diadophis amabilis 5oU, 55d, odd 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



835 



Diadophis a. docilis 542 



arnjn 541 



regalis 541, 553 



Dicselus ovalis 42, 47 



Dichothorax 220,221 



Dicrossus 533 



Dictyna 60, 61 



ammophila 130, 133 



benigna 128, 133, 136 



benignum 130 



volupis...99, 128, 130, 133, 135, 136 



Dictynidse 60, 130, 140 



Dictyophora 365 



vorax 364 



Diemvctylus viridescens 538 



Diorite 397-400 



Diplectrum formosum 329 



Diplodonta punctata 757 



Dipodomys ambiguus 2Jf. 



merriami ambiguus 24 



ordii 2J^ 



spectabilis 24 



Distorsio crassidens 279 



Divaricella quadrisulcata 757 



Doliocystidffi 640 



Doliocystis rhyncoboli 50, 640 



Dolomedes 140 



idoneus 654 



marginellus 341 



sexpunctatus 654 



urinator 654 



Donax abesa 757 



variabilis 757 



Doras costatus 500 



maculatus 500 



nebulosus 500 



Dosinia discus 757 



Drassidffi 60, 130, 136, 140, 141 



Drassus 60, 61 



neglectus 127, 141 



Drieschia 798 



pelagica 798 



pellucida 794,798 



Drillia eboroides 273 



harmonica 273 



mississippiensis 273 



Drj'mteus dunkeri 765 



emeus 765 



hegewischi 765 



sulphureus 765 



Drymobius margaritiferus 554 



Dryobates pubescens gairdneri 7, 15 



scalaris bairdi 26 



villosus harrisi 7, 15 



Dyscologamia 179, 180 



Dytiscus sp 42, 54 



Eciieneidida; 336 



Echeneis alba-cauda 336 



Echinomera liispida 44, 51, 52, 640 



microocpliala 52, 640 



Echinopsalis 299,300 



Echinopsalis brevibractea 300 



guttata 299,300 



Ectobia (Blatta) germanica 44 



Eigenmannia Aarescens 530 



Eimeria 337 



Elceagnus 353, 354 



Elaps 297,557 



fulvius 551, 554, 556 



Elater 46 



sp 42 



Empusinae 718 



Emys 557 



Endodontidse 213, 769 



Engystoma carolinense 539 



Enophrys reticulata 129 



Ensis directus 757 



Epeira 60,139 



balaustina 341 



callophylla 132 



circulata 341 



diademata 129,132 



foliata 341 



fusco-vittata 341 



labyrinthea 120, 129, 132 



marmorea 132 



quadrata 132 



theisii 341 



undecim-tuberculata 341 



Epeiridaj, 60, 130, 131, 135, 139, 141, 



144 



Epiblenum scenicum 129 



Epirobia 765 



(Gyrocion) mirabilis 765 



Epiurus 82 



Eremiaphila 701 



Eremiaphila bove 701 



luxor 701 



sabulosa 701 



Eremoblatta 181,189 



Erigeron 590 



Erinna newcombi 790 



Ervilia concentrica 757 



Erycina floridana 756, 758 



kurtzii 759 



Erythrolampus imperialis 554 



Esox barracuda 749 



Eublepharis 556 



A-ariegatus 552 



Eucharia bipunctata 133 



Eucheilodon 275,278 



crenocarinatum 275 



Iseviplicata 278 



reticulata 278 



Eucinostomus harengulus 332 



Eumeces 558 



l)rcvilineatus 553 



guttulatus 552 



multivirgatus 553 



obsolctus 34, 548 552 



pachyurus 553 



quinquelineatus.. 541, 554 




836 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Eumeces tetragrammus 553 



Eumidia caeca 426 



Eunice gracilis 440 



medicina 441 



mucronata 433, 434, 436, 437 



northioidea 433 



quinquifida 433, 434, 435 



vittata 435 



Eunicidjp 433 



Eupanthalis 423 



Eupera 784 



Euplirosyne superba 426 



Euphrosynidae 426 



Euspora lucani 50, 640 



Eustala prompta 341 



Eutamias cinereicollis 20 



c. canipes 20 



quadrivittatus 20 



Eutsenia 286 



atrata 287, 294, 295, 296 



biscutata 287,291 



concinna 293, 296 



cooperi 287,294 



couchi 287, 290, 291, 296 



dorsalis 287, 292, 293, 296 



elegans 286-295 



e. biscutata 288. 291, 296 



e. brunnea 287, 290, 291 



e. elegans 288, 291, 293-296 



e. lineolata 287, 288, 290 



e. plutonia 287, 290, 291, 296 



e. vagrans 288, 290, 292, 296 



eques 286, 296, 549, 553 



hammondi, 287,288, 291, 295-297 



henshawi 287, 290, 291, 296 



infernalis infernalis, 286, 287, 288, 

 289, 290, 293, 296 



i. vidua 287, 294, 295. 296 



kennicotti 290 



leptocephala 287, 294, 295 



marciana 296, 549, 553 



megalops 296 



ordinoides 292,296 



parietalis 293,294 



pickeringi 287, 293, 294, 296 



proxima 296, 548, 553, 556 



radix 296,552 



sirtalis 288, 292. 294 



s. leptocephala. ...288, 293. 294, 296 



s. parietalis, 288, 289. 292, 294. 



296, 549, 553 



s. pickeringi 288, 293. 294, 296 



s. sirtalis 292, 294, 296, 554 



s. tetratsenia 287, 292, 293, 296 



s. trilineata 287. 292, 294, 296 



vagrans 287,291 



vidua 295 



Euticliurus insulanus 340 



Falco sparverius phalsena 7 



Fallugia acuminata 590 



paradoxica acuminata 590 



Farancia 557 



Fasciolaria tulipa 757 



Feldspar 397,400 



Feldspar porphjTj- 398 



Felichthys filamentosus 346 



marinus 346 



Felsite 398, 399, 400 



Floronia coccineus 340 



Floscularia, 364, 380, 384, 385, 387, 



390, 391 



ambigua 381-383, 385-388, 391 



atrochoides 391,392 



campanulata 380-389 



chimsera 391 



conklini 380-389 



coronetta 381-388 



cucuUata 391 



edentata 390 



hoodii 391 



libera 392 



pelagica 390, 391, 392 



trilolData 391 



Flosculariidae 363-395 



Fontaria 43, 53 



sp 42 



ForcineUa antoni 305 



Forficesila annulipes 304 



Forficula 311 



albipennis 310 



americana 301 



auricularia 311 



bidens 301 



calif ornica 310 



linearis 310 



lugubris 311 



metrica 311 



pedestris 310 



ruficeps 310 



tolteca 308 



Forficulidffi 299 



Formica 218 



exsectoides 215 



fusca 219 



rufa 215,219 



r. subsp. diflBcilis 228 



sanguinea 219, 492 



subsericea 492, 493 



Fouqueira 17 



Franckia 353, 355, 360 



alni 353, 354 



brunchorstii 353, 354. 355, 358 



ceanothi 353, 354, 356 



subtilis 353 



Frullania 629 



Fulgur nodulatum 281, 282 



perversa 757 



p^Tvml 757 



spiniger 281,282 



Fundulus paraguayensis 530 



Fusimitra cellulifera 282 



Fusus mississippiensis 267 




1903.]. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



S3 7 



Fusus nanus 279 



vicksburgensis 267 



Galeodes 137,138 



Galerita bicolor 636 



Gari 262 



mississippiensis 262 



Garnet 397 



Gasteracantha cancriform's 341 



sexserrata 341 



tetracantha 341 



Gasteropelecus stellatus 524 



Gasteropterus 73S 



archieiis 738,739 



Gasterosteus spinarella 169 



Gastrodonta 20.5,206 



andrewspe 209 



brittsi 213 



clappi 207 



coelaxis 206 



collisella 206 



demissa 193, 194, 213 



d. brittsi 213 



d. lamellata 194, 213 



lamellidens 208 



significans 211 



walkeri 209 



Gemma gemma 759 



g. purpurea 757 



Gomvs luhms 24 



Geophagus 533 



duodecimspinosum 535 



pappaterra. 535 



Geophilus 44, 337, 338, 445 



atopodon 37 



sp 42 



Gerrhonotus 556 



liocephalus 552 



Gerridffi 332 



Gigaductiis 633 



parvus 633, 639, 641, 642 



Giton fasciatus 530 



Glandina dalli 772 



delicata 771,772 



delicatula alticola 772 



huingensis 770 



iheringi 772 



indusiata 770 



michoacanensis 770 



monilifera 772 



oblonga 772 



o. tamaulipensis 772 



(SelasieUa) perpusilla 773 



rhoadsi 771 



texasiana 771 



vanuxemensis 770 



victoriana 771 



Glandinida; 770 



Glauconia 556 



dulcis 34, 548, 552 



Globicephala 313, 314 



Glvcera alba 464 



Glycera decipiens 464 



gcesi 464 



opisthobranchi 464 



robusta 464 



tessellata 464 



Glyceridse 464 



Glycimerus americana 756 



Glj'^phostoma 276 



harrisi 278 



Gnaphosa 139 



Gnathias, 569, 592, 594, 597, 600, 607 



Gobius gronoAdi 328 



Goniada distorta 460, 461 



(Leonnatus) foliacea, 457, 461, 463 



Goniadidaj 457 



Goniothorax 220 



Gon'ST)eta (Iridopteryx) infumata. 702 



Gorilla 719 



Grammichthys 350 



Granite .' : 400 



Graviceps 170 



Gregarina achetsabbreviatse, 45, 639, 



641 



actinotus 55 



blattse-orien talis 44 



blattarum 44, 639 



boletophagi 47,641 



calverti, 43, 48, 638, 639, 641, 642 



dicseli 641 



discseli 47, 641 



elaterffi 46,640 



harpali 49, 637 



juli 51 



julimarginata 51 



julipusulli 51, 634 



larvata 51 



locustsecarolinse 54 



megacephala 52 



melolonthsebrunnese 45, 640 



microcephala 52 



passalicornuti 45, 639 



philica 53 



polydesmivirginiensis ....43, 45, 640 



scarabeirelicti 45, 640 



tenuitis 44,640 



xylopini 47 



Gregarinidse 639 



Grindelia 587 



Gryllus (Mantis) religiosus 712 



Guppya elegans 768 



gundlachi 768 



micra 769 



trochulina, 768 



Gyrocion 765 



Hsemulida? 330, 348 



Hajmulon plumierii 331 



sciurus 330 



Haldea striatula 554 



Hamalatiwa grisea 341 



Haplite 400 



Haplosternum littorale 504 




838 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Haplosternum pectoralis 504 



Harmothoe 402 



imbricata 402 



Harpaginse 714 



Harpalus caliginosus 42, 50, 634 



Heleodytes brunneicapillus couesi. 29 



Helicidse 761,762 



Helicina fragilis 782 



lirata 782 



orbiculata tropica 195, 782 



sowerbyana 782 



succincta 782 



turbinata 781 



zephyrina 782 



zephyrina var. dientensis 782 



Helicinidse 781 



Helicodiscus lineatus 213 



Heliophanes cupreus 134 



Heliozoa 382 



Helix aspersa 762 



blakeana 76 Ji. 



labrosa 202 



significans 212 



Helminthophila virginise 29 



Heloderma 556 



suspectum 552 



Hemigrammus elegans 519 



kennedja 520 



luetkeni 515, 519 



melasopterus 518 



unilineatus 519 



Hemiodus microlepis 511 



orthonops 511 



Hemiphsedusa 315 



Hemisorubimplatyrhynchos 499 



Heros 533 



pavonaceus 322 



severus 349 



teporatus 321, 323 



urophthalmus 349 



Hesperarion 627 



Hesperomys leiicopus rufinus 23 



sonoriensis 22 



truei 23 



Heterodon nasicus 34, 551, 553 



platvThinus 554 



Heterogamia 178, 179 



mexicana 178 



(Homceogamia) mexicana 181 



Heteropoda venatoria 341 



Hibiscus moscheutos 326, 327 



Hierodula 708 



bipapilla 709 



birivia 708 



gracilicollis 709 



hj'brida 708 



membranacea 708 



patellifera 709 



simulacrum 70S 



vitrea 709 



Hipponoe gaudichaudi 793 



HippophjB 354 



rhamnoides 353 



Hirmocystis ovalis 50, 640 



Hinmdo erytlu-ogastra 28 



Holbrookia 556, 557 



maculata 545, 546, 552 



m. maculata 545 



propinqua 553, 555 



texana 30, 31, 540, 545, 552 



Holcaspis cinerosus, 215, 235, 236, 251, 



252 



Holonomada 562, 586, 588 



Holospira 765 



Homceogamia 177-181 



apacha 181,188 



azteca 181,184 



bolliana 181, 185, 187 



brasiliana 178, 192 



capucina 180 



erratica 181,187 



mexicana 178, 181, 182, ISJj., 192 



n.sp 192 



sinensis 178, 180 



subdiaphana 181, 189 



Hoplias malabaricus 508 



Hoplerythrinus unitteniatus 508 



Hoplocephala bicomis 52 



Hoplorhynchus actinotus..44. 55, 637, 



640 



scolopendras 636, 640 



Hornblende 397 



Hornblende-gneiss 399 



Hyalina 205 



significans 211 



Hyalinoecia tubicola 444 



Hydaticus cinereus 54 



Hydrocyon brevidens 526 



hepsetus 527 



Hyla arenicolor 539 



Hylocichla guttata nana 14 



HylosjTida carinata 417 



magna comuta 419 



Hypopomus brevirostris 530 



Hypoptopomus thoracatum 502 



Hypsiglena 556, 557 



ochrorliyncha 553 



HjqDsinotus humilus 340 



Icius separatus 341, 344 



Icterus parisorum ** 27 



Idolomoi-pha " 718 



wahlbergi \718 



Iherinichthys labrosus '^^499 



Infusoria 367,384 



Iridio bivittatus 332 



Iridopter^rx 702 



glauca 702 



infumata 702 



iridipennis 702 



Iron 397 



Iron oxides 397 



Isaloides octoperlata 343 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



839 



Isaloides toussaintii 341, 343 



Ischnomeinbras 730 



gabunensis 730, 731 



Ischnomynnex Cockerelli 21.5 



Ischnoptera pennsylvanicus 44 



Isthmia 3 



Ixoreus naivius nievius 14 



Joturus pichardi 74S 



Julus 42,43, .51,635 



minutus 634 



pusillus 634 



Junco hyemalis hyeinalis 10 



li. oreganus 10, 1.5 



h. tburberi 10, 15 



Jiiiiiperus 17 



Kersantite 399 



Kinosternon flavescens 540 



Labia 305 



arcuata 305 



championi 305 



flaviscuta 305 



guttata 305 



rotundata 306 



Labidura 301 



bidens 301 



pallipes 301 



riparia 301 



Labiosa canaliculata 757 



Labrus bivittatus 332 



hiatula 332 



plumierii 331 



Lsenilla subfumida 402 



Lfetinatonice filicornis 420 



japonica 420 



pellucida 420 



producta 420 



prod acta var. benthaliana 420 



Lagodon rhoniboides 331 



Lampropeltis doliatus coccineiis.... 542 



getiilis sayi ,542 



Lampsilis rovarosai 788 



umbrosus 788 



Lanius ludovicianus excvibitorides. 28 



Laranda robusta 454 



Larrea 16 



Lasius 216 



latipes 49.3,617 



umliratus 493 



Lathyrus marititnus 355 



Latindia 178 



Latinis 275 



protactus 267 



Leanira areolata 426 



japonica 426 



Leda acuta 756 



Leomantis 706 



ignota 706 



Lepas anatifera 793 



fasoicularis 794 



Lcpidonotus 794, 797 



branchiferus 400,412 



Lepidonotus cselorus 412, 414 



chitoniformis 405, 410, 411, 412 



giganteus 412 



pleiolepis 414 



(Hylosynda) vexillarius 415 



Leporinus conirostris 512 



hypselonotus 512 



trifasciatus 512 



Leptinaria marteusi 776 



mcxicana 775,776 



tainaulipensis 776 



Leptothorax 215-260,493 



acervorum...216, 217, 219, 220, 227 



a. subsp. canadensis 223, 225 



a. var. convi\aalis 219, 228 



a. var. kincaidi 219, 228 



a. var. vanlcee 227 



andrei.'. 224,256 



canadensis 225, 227, 228 



c. var. yankee 227, 229 



convivialis 216 



curvispinosus, 216, 219, 220, 223, 

 238-241 



c. subsp. ambiguus 241 



c. subsp. annectens 241, 242 



c. var. cockerelli 241 



c. subsp. rugatulus 241 



echinatinodis 222 



e. subsp. aculeatinodis 222 



c. var. pungentinodis 222 



emersoni 216, 218, 223, 230 



floridanus 224 



("Dichothorax) floridanus 259 



fortinodis...220, 223, 233, 235, 236 



f. var. gihais 235^ 236 



f . var. melanoticus 235, 236 



liirticornis 223, 224 



longispinosus 223, 236, 239 



muscoruni var. sordidus....223, 224 



neomexicanus 22-3, 248, 249 



nevadensis 224, 252 



nitens, 219, 220, 223, 224, 225, 244 



n. var. heathii 245 



n. subsp. occidentalis 245 



Nylanderi 217 



obturator 218, 224, 235, 249 



pergandei 219, 224, 258 



(Dichothorax) pergandei, 256, 259 



petiolatus 223 



pittieri 222 



provancheri 223, 229 



rugatulus 24I, 242 



schaumi, 220, 223, 232, 233, 235, 



236 



schmittii 223,242 



stoUi 222 



terrigena 224,2.50 



texanus 223,245 



tricarinatus, 219, 223, 247, 249, 



254 

 tristani 222 




840 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Leptothorax tubero-affinis 216, 217 



tuberum 220 



unifasciatus 220 



Lepus arizona3 minor 25 



texianus griseus 25 



Libocedrus decurrens 5 



Limestones 397 



Limujea 791 



affinis 790 



attenuata 776 



columella 213, 776 



c. var. championi 776 



desidiosa 777 



liawaiensis 790 



humilis 616 



oahuensis 790 



palmeri 777 



sandwichensis 790 



Limnaeidse 213, 776, 777 



Limulus 136, 137 



Linyphia 60, 61 



' clathrata 114 



margiuata 129, 133 



montana 128, 129, 132, 136 



triangularis 128, 129, 132, 136 



Liodytes 557 



Liolepisma 558 | 



laterale 541,554 



Liopeltis vernalis 554, 556 



Lithobius 637 



Lithobius angelus 152, 155 



beUulus 152, 155 



BeulfB 36 



castellopes 153, 158 



■clavigerens 153, 159 



eigenmanni 153 



forcipatus 42, 44, 52, 633, 642 



gljTDtocepbalus 35 



howei 36 



mesechinus 153, 158 



obesus 153 



pitophilus 153, 157 



remex 153, 156 



sastianus 153, 157 



utahensis 37, 153 



X,itorina irrorata 758 



Liza 746 



alosoides 746 



aurita , 746 



caldwelli 747 



cascasia 746 



labeo 748 



provensalis 748 



ramada 746 



saliens 746 



sehlegeli 747 



Loimia arborea 475 



turgida 725 



viridis 723 



Loricaria labialis 501 



lamina 501 



Loricaria lata.. 501 



stubeUi 501 



Lucanus dama 501 



Lucina chrysostoma 756 



mississippiensis 264 



perlevis 264 



scopularis 263 



vicicsburgensis 263, 264 



Lumbriclymene 479 



Lumbriconereidse 454 



Lumbriconereis bifurcata 454 



heteropoda 454 



japonica 454 



Lutianidifi 329 



Lvcosa 60, 128, 139, 140 



amentata 129, 132 



arenicola 647 



(Trochosa) avara 650 



charonoides 82, 646, 647 



cinerea 647 



contcstata 649 



frondicola 649 



inhonesta 647 



lepida 78, 139, 141, 649 



lugubris 132 



(Tarentula) modesta 646 



monticolor 129 



nidicola 76, 647 



nigraurata 651 



ocieata 143 



o. pulchra, 62, 68, 128, 129, 132, 

 136, 139, 145, 645 



pratensis 650, 651 



punctulata 77, 139 



purcelli 649 



rufiventris 651 



rurestris 129,132 



scutulata, 72, 129, 132, 141, 144, 



647 



sepulchralis 645, 647 



stonei, 61, 67, 128, 129, 132. 136, 

 139, 141, 143, 647 



verisimLlis 81, 647 



Lj-cosidff 60, 130, 136, 140, 141 



Lyria costata 282 



mississippiensis 282 



nestor 282 



Lysinoe humboldtiana buffoniana.. 762 

 Lysiopetalum lactarium, 42, 43, 48, 635 



Lysopticus 556 



lateralis 553 



Lyssomanes antillianus 341 



viridus 341 



Macoma brevifrons 757 



constricta 757 



tenta 757 



Macrochelvs lacertina 552 



Mactra ..,.: 261, 282 



funerata 261 



insequilateralis 261 



Magnetite 397 




1903.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



841 



Maldane coronata 483 



sarsi 483 



Maldanida? 479 



Mangilia 276 



cerina 757 



Mantida? 332,701 



Mantina? 702 



Mantis 712 



apicalis 704 



aridifolia 705 



(Mantis) basalis 710 



bioculata 708 



(Deroplatys) dcsiccata 714 



doiningensis 706 



fenestrata 713 



gastrica 708 



maculata 704 



patellifera 709 



religiosus 712 



servillei 702 



striata 706 



superstitiosa 705 



tristis 706 



undata 717,718 



vitrea 709 



Marginella apicina 757 



Mastigophora 384 



Meioceras nitida 758 



Melampus coffea gvmdlaclii 757 



Melanerpes torquatus 9 



Melanonomada 587 



Melanophora nocturna 129, 133 



Melongena corona .• 757 



Melospiza 658 



cinerea merrilli 11, 15 



c. morphna 11, 15 



Menidia guatemalensis 736 



Menosporidae 640 



Meretrix conradiana 757 



enc\Tnata 757 



simpsoni 757 



texasiana 757 



Mermis 90 



Merula 658 



migratoria propinqua 14 



Merulinus 333 



alatus 336 



. carolinus 336 



roseus 336 



salmonicolor 333 



scitulns 336 



Mesodon albolabris 197 



a. var. alleni 197 



a. var. minor 197 



Mesonauta 533 



festivus 535 



Mesops 533 



Meta segmentata 130, 132 



Metacvba pictipes 341, 343 



trpniola 343, 344 



Metis intastriata 757 



Metostracon mima 761, 762 



Metula f astidiosa 280,281 



fragilis 281 



gracilis 280 



Metynnis lippincottianus 529 



mola • 528 



Miagrammopes sp 340 



Micaria 139 



Mieroceramus concisus 765 



mexicanus 765 



Microdrillia... 275, 276, 279 



aldrichella 278 



biplacatula 278 



cossmanni 276 



[Pleurotoma] cossmanni 276 



elongatula 278 



harrisi 276 



[Gl yphostoma] harrisi 278 



infans 276 



[Pleurotoma] infans 277 



[Pleurotoma] lerchi 277 



[Pleurotoma] meyeri 276 



minutissima 277 



robustulla 277 



rostratula 277 



solidula 276 



vicksburgella 277, 278 



Micromantis 702 



Micrommata virescens, 128, 129, 134, 



136 



Micronomada 564, 604, 608, 610 



Micryphantes rurestris 130 



Mimus polyglottos leucopterus 29 



Miomantis 713 



fenestrata 713 



menelekii 713 



saussurei 713 



Misumena asperatus 341 



sp 341 



vatia 129 



Mitra millingtoni 283 



mississippiensis 283 



staminea 282,283 



vicksburgensis 283 



Mobulida- 332 



Modiolus demissus 756 



tulipus 756 



Mogrus cephalotes 341 



Molossus mexicanus 26 



Monomorium minutum var. mini- 

 mum 258,259 



Monotropa 355 



Mugil brasiliensis 743 



caldwelli 7^7,748 



cascasia 746 



cephalus 743 



cinereus 332 



curema 744 



guntheri 746 



incilis 744 



kelaartii 743,744 




842 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Mugil labeo 74S 



monticola 7Jt8 



ramada 746 



Mugilida^ 737, 738, 743 



Mulinia lateralis 757 



Murex fiilvescsns 758 



Musculium 784, 786 



Mustela vison 25 



Myctophidse 754 



Myctophum coruscans 755 



Myiarchus cinerascens 27 



Myletes albiscopus 530 



oculus 530 



Myleus tiete 529 



Mylossoma 530 



albiscopus 530 



Myotis evotus 25 



Myrica cerifera 352-362 



gale 353, 354 



Myriophj-Uum 381 



Myrmecina 218 



Myraiica 220 



bre\dnodis 216, 219, 228, 231 



rubra 219 



tubenim 229 



Mytilus exustus 756 



Nassa acuta 757 



Xatica pusilla 758 



Xatrix fasciatus 541 



sipedon transversa 541 



sp 541 



Na\'icula 2 



rhomboides 3 



Xematoda 367 



Nemertini 372 



Neolobophora 310 



bogotensis 310 



ruficeps 310 



Neomjenis apodus 329 



Neotoma mexicana 23 



micropus canescens 23 



Neotroplus 532 



Xephila 130 



Xephthyida; 431 



Xephthvs brachvcephala 431 



ciliata '. 433 



Xereid£P 428 



Xercis arenaceodentata 720 



dumerilii 430 



paucidentata 430 



pelagica 431 



pusilla 428 



Xicomache 479 



inornata 479 



Xilakantha cockerelli 341 



Xinoepalmata 456 



Xomada 568, 569, 574 



accepta 612 



adducta 594 



affabilis 581, 582, 586, 587 



albofasciata 596, 602 



Xomada araericana, 590-592, 608, 609, 



611 



a. dacotana 590,592,609 



ama?na 597 



angelarum 560, 574 



arinata 606 



armatella 607,608 



articulata 576, 592 



ashmeadi 560 



(Xanthidium) ashmeadi 568 



astori 571, 589 



atrofrontata 5G1, 573, 574, 605 



belfragei 588, 604, 611 



beUa, 589, 595, 596, 599, 601, 607, 



608 



bethunei 607 



bifurcata 559, 577, 579 



califomiEe 561 , 571 



caroliniB 595, 602 



ci\ilis 567, 581, 582, 584 



citrina 582, 584, 586 



c. var. rufula 582, 586 



clarkii 574, 589, 606, 614 



coloradensis 603 



coquilletti 559,560 



(Xanthidium) coquilletti 567 



cordleyi 570 



corvallisensis 571-573, 589, 606 



crassula 609, 610, 611 



cressonii 614 



crotchii 612 



c. nigrior 560 



(Xanthidium) crotchii var. ni- 

 grior 564 



crucis 593, 610 



cnidelis 612 



cubensi? 611 



cuneata 595, 596, 599, 601-603 



davidsoni 560, 575 



decempunctata...559, 569, 576, 613 

 (Xanthidium) decempunctata 565 



dentarise 580, 582 



depressa 607, 608 



dilucida 612 



edwardsii 559, 561, 581, 585, 587 



e. australior 559 



(Holonomada) edwardsii 562 



(Holonomada) edwardsii var. 



australior 562 



electa 613 



electella 612,613 



elegantula 560, 578 



elrodi 581,583 



erigeronis 588, 591, 609, 611 



erj^thrtea 561, 571, 572, 613 



erythrochroa 572, 611, 614 



excellens 561, 573, 588 



excurrens 559 



(Holonomada) excurrens 562 



fervida 604 



flavipes 564 




1903] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



843 



Nomada flavoguttata 614 



formula 560, 593, 609, 611 



(Micronomada) formula 564 



fragilis 593, 594, 612 



gracilis 569 



grandis 587 



grayi 570, 589, 595, 597, 598 



g. eastonensis 595, 597, 598 



grindelia^ 587 



heiligbrodtii 594,609 



hemphilli 559 



(Holonomada) hemphiLli...o(51, 562 



hesperia 559 



(Holonomada) hesperia oG3 



hoodiana 608 



kincaidiana 614 



krugii 611 



latitrons 561, 572, 588 



lehighensis 605 



lepida 595, 596, 597 



lewisii 589 



libata 612 



limata 587, 611 



lippiie 593,609 



louisiante 594, 602 



luteola 580-582, 584, 585 



luteoloides 565,581-585 



maculata 601,602 



magnifica 587 



marginella 560, 576 



martinella 590, 591, 608, 611 



modesta 609-611 



m. var. rivertonensis 609, 610 



m. var. vegana 593, 609, 610 



modocorum 568, 570 



morrissoni 582, 584, 586 | 



m. var. flagellaris 582, 587 [ 



neomexicana 593, 609, 610 



nigrocincta 588, 589 



(Heminomada) obliterata 592 \ 



oregonica 559, 573, 575, 577, 589 I 



ovata 594, 595 j 



parata 612 



pascoensis 559, 580 [ 



(Xanthidium) pascoensis 564 



perplexa 594-596, 600, 607 



physura 596, 599 



proxima 612 



Dutnami 594, 609 



rhodalis 594, 599, 600 



rhodomelas ...589, 595, 598 



rhodosoma..560, 561, 571, 613, 614 



r. var. rhodosomella 613 



rhodotricha 560 



(Holonomada) rhodotricha 562 



ridingsii 609, 611 



rivalis 564, 581, 584 



robertsonella 613 ■ 



rubicunda 592,608 



rubrica 561, 614, 570 



ruficornis 570, 614 ' 



Nomada ruidosensis 594 



sanctiecrucis 559, 580 



(Xantliidiuni) sanetsecrucis.... 566 



savi .578, 605 



schwarzi 595, 596, 599 



s. contractula .596, 600 



scita 590, 591, 593, 609, 611 



soitaformis 591 



scitiformis 609,611 



simplex 606 



snowi 594,609 



sophiarum 593, 609, 611 



sphserogaster 611, 612 



suavis 585, 593, ,594 



subangusta 560,570 



subgracilis 560 



(Phor) subgracihs 569 



(Xanthidium) subsimilis...559, 567 



subvicinalis 559, 576 . 



succincta 581, 582, 586 



suda 564 



sulphurata ..581, 582, 584, 585, 586 



superba 561-563, 580, 585-587 



texana 609 



tibialis 611 



tiftonensis 610 



tintinnabulum 561, 572, .573 



ultima 571, 572, 573, .589, 605 



u. taraxacella 589, .591 



ultimella .561,572 



vahda 592, 606 



verecunda 593 



vicina 612 



vicinalis 576 



vierecki ,593, 609, 610 



^^neta 564, 580-583, 586, 603 



vinnula 588 



volatilis 607 



washingtoni 595, 598 



wheeleri 604,608 



xanthophila 581 , 585, 5S6 



xanthophila var. pecosensis.... 585 

 zebrata, 580, 581, 583, 586, 603, 



611 



Nomadula 611 



Nomeida^ 328 



Nops coccineus 340 



Northia 433,448 



geopbiliformis 445 



maerobraTiohiata 445 



Nosema geophih 337,'33S 



Notocirrus zonata €455 



Nucifraga Columbiana 10. 15 



Nyctalenion curvata 1298 



Xyctinomus brasihonsis ■ 26 



cyanocephalus "? 26 



mc'xicanus '^ 26 



Ocyale 60,'140 



undata 91 



Ocyurus chrysurus > 330 



Odonata .' 138 160 




844 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Odontostilbe paraguayensis 512 



trementiua"' 513 



(Edalechilus 748 



ffinothcra lamarckiana 327 



Olios 140 



antiguensis 341 



Oliva literata 757 



Olivella affluens.... 281 



mississippiensis 281 



niutica 757 



pusilla 757 



Olivine 397 



Omphalina bilineata 767 



carinata 768 



lucubrata 766, 767 



martensiana 766, 767 



montereyensis 767, 768 



ra. victoriana 768 



Oniscu? 42 



Onuphidte 444 



Onuphus oirrobranchiata 451 



Onychomys arcticeps 22 



fiiliginosus 22 



melanophrys 22 



ruidosae 22 



torridus 22 



Oomycetes 360 



Opeas niicra 775 



octonoides 775 



odiosum 775 



patzcuarense 775 



rhoadsse 775 



Ophibolus 297 



alternus 550, 553 



calligaster 553 



doliatus annulatus 553 



d. coccineus 554 



d. doliatus 554 



getulussayi 550, 553, 556 



sayi 550 



spiendidus 550 



Ophisaurus 557 



ventralis 554 



Opisthocosniia 308 



(Sarcinatrix) anomalia 308 



centurio 308 



Opuntia 16 



Oreortyx 15 



pictiis plumiferus 6, 15 



Oreospiza chlorura 28 



Orthoderinae 701 



Orthofelsite porphvrv 397 



Orthophyre 1...'. 397 



Oxydoras knerii 501 



Oxyopes salticus 341 



Ostracion oblongus glaber 333 



Ostracoda 367 



Ostrea A'irginica 756 



Pachvgnatha 130 



listen 130, 132 



PachjTirus bonariensis 531 



Paniciim 656 



Panopea bitruncata 757 



Paradon affinis 512 



tortuosus 512 



Parajulus 42, 43, 51, 635 



neomexicanus 38 



Parameles 703 



Paranorthia 448 



brevicornuta 448 



Parastarte triquetra 757, 759 



Paratenodera 705 



aridifolia 705,706 



sinensis 705, 706 



Paravitrea 204, 205, 206 



Pardosa 60 



lapidicina 652 



nigropalpis, S2, 90, 129, 132, 139, 

 141, 652 



pallida 653 



scita 90,652 



Parus gambeli 13, 15 



rufescens rufescens 13, 15 



Parymenopus 717 



davisoni 717 



Passalus corniitus 45 



Passerella iliaca unalaschcensis 11 



Pecten gibbus irradians 756 



Pelecypoda 261 



Pellenes locuples 341 



Perca apoda 329 



formosa 329 



marinis primis 329 



nobilis 349 



Periplaneta americana 44 



oricntalis 44 



Perodipus ordii 24 



Perognathus (Chastodipus) erem- 



icus 25 



fla^als 24 



hispidus paradoxus 25 



intermedius 25 



paradoxus 25 



penicillatus eremicus 25 



Peromyscus rufinus 23 



texanus sonoriensis 22 



tornillo 23 



truei 23 



Peronospora 360 



Petenia 532 



Petiicola pholadiformis 757 



Petrochelidon lunifrons 28 



Petroscirtes elegans 170 



tgeniatus 170 



Peucetia viridans 341 



Pezomachus dimidiatus 82 



Phacoides amiantus 757 



creneUa 756 



floridanus 756 



nassula 756 



radians 756 



trisulcatus 756 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



845 



Phandella 272 



nepionica 272 



Phataria (Linckia') fascialis 351 



Pheidole '. 220 



instabilis 256 



Philodromidte 60 



Philodromus GO, 61, 139 



aureolus 126 



Philoica domestica 128, 136 



Philomycidse 770 



Philomycus crosseanus 770 



Pholcida? 60, 130, 141, 144 



Pholcus 60, 135, 139, 140 



phalangioides 114, 129, 134 



tipuloides 340 



Phosfalsus 280 



macilentus 279, 280 



inississippiensis 279, 280 



Phoxargvrea 732 



davi 732 



Phniroiithus festivus 129, 133 



Plirvnosoma 556, 557 



"cornutum 30, 32, 540, 546, 552 



douglassi hernandesi 32 



modestum 546, 556 



Phyllocrania westwoodi 715 



Phvllodoce grcenlandica 428 



PhvUodocid.Te 426 



Phyllothelys 715 



mitratum 715 



paradoxum 715 



Physa berendti 778 



coniiormis T78 



laciistris 778 



mexicana var. conit'ormis 118 



osculans 777 



osculans patzcuarensis 778 



o. plicata 777 



o. rhyssa 777 



Physalia 329 



Phvsida^ 777 



Phytophthora 360 



Pimelodus albicans 499 



clarias 499 



ornatus 499 



valenciennis 499 



Pimpla 82 



Pinus attenuata 5 



lambertinus 5 



monticola 6 



ponderosa 5, 13 



Pipilo fuscus mesoleucus 28 



Piranga hepatica 28 



ludoviciana 11 



Pirata 60,61 



hiimicolus 654 



liber 90, 139, 654 



Pisciregia 138 



beardsleei 738 



Pisidium abditum 788 



Pista cristata 473 



Pityophis catenifer sayi 549, 553 



savi bellona 30, 33 



Plagiolepis 216 



Plagioscion ternetzi 531 



PlanorbinjB 791 



Planorbis liebmanni 777 



tenuis 777 



tenuis exaggeratus 777 



Plasmodiophorar. 353, 356, 360 



alni 353 



brassicap 353,356 



Platacidfe 161 



Platax albipunctatus 162 



vespertilio 161 



Platythyra flavescens 5^3 



Plecostomus boulengeri 502 



commersoni 502 



plecostomus 502 



scabriceps 502 



vermicularis 502 



Plethodon cinereus 538 



I' glutinosus 538 



Pleuronectes lineatus 350 



Pleurotoma 26S, 276 



arnica 270,271 



ancilla 271 



collaris 270 



(Moniliopsis) elaborata 275 



evanescons 269 



hilgardi 270 



infans 278 



i. var. brevis 278 



intacta 271 



oblivia 269,270 



plutonica 271 



(Eucheilodon) reticulatoides.. 275 



rotoedens 270,271 



servata 268, 269, 270 



tenella 270,271 



texana 276 



vicksburgensis 268 



Pleurotomaria beyrichi 496 



hirasei 496 



Plexippus paykuUi 341 



Plicatula gibbosa 756 



Poecilia 320 



limantouri 320 



Pocciliidfe 320 



Poecilurichthys abramis 521 



agassizii 522 



dichrourus 522 



macidatus lacustris 521 



moenkhausii 522 



multiradiatus 520,521 



scabripennis 521 



wappi 521 



Pogonomyrniex barbatus 215 



Poliniccs duplicatus 758 



Polioptila ca>rulea obscura 29 



Polyclijcta 401-490 



Polydesmus 43, .53 




846 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Polydesmus sp 40 



virginiensis 42, 46 



Poh-ergiis 493 



Polygvra albolabris 197 



a: alleni 197, 198, 199, 200 



a. fuscolabris 200 



a. major 200 



a. normalis 200 



aliciae 194 



appressa perigrapta 201 



barbigera 202 



binne}rana 201 



blandiana 203 



flausa 201 



cragini 196 



divesta 200 



d. indianorum 200 



dorfeuilliana 195, 196 



d. sampsoni 195, 196 



edenta 197 



exoleta 200 



friersoni 194 



hirsuta 203 



h. crucifera 202 



imperforata 194 



indianorum 200 



inflecta 196 



i. media 197 



jacksoni 196 



labrosa 202 



leporina 195 



maritima 199 



monodon 194 



m. aliciis 204 



ra. fraterna 194 



m. imperfoi'ata 204 



neglecta 196 



pifsbryi 201 



plagioglossa 762 



rhoadsi 763 



suprazonata 763 



thyroides 201 



t. bucculenta 201 



uncifera ! 202 



zaleta 200 



Pohminia nesidensis var. japonica 475 



Polynoa semierma 402 



Polynoidte 402 



Polvodontes .": 425 



Polyphaga 177, 178, 180 



fequalis 178, ISO, 192 



brasiliana 191 



(Homoeogamia) brasiliana 191 



mexicana 182 



CHomoeogamia) mexicana. /Si, /^f 



Polysphincta 82 



Polyspilata 706 



albimacula 706 



catenata 706 



r-onspersa 706 



pustulata 706 



Polyspilata striata 706 



varia 706 



variegata 706 



Polytrichum commune 231 



Pomatiopsinje 195 



Pomatiopsis lapidaria 195 



Popa 717 



spurca 717 



undata 718 



Porcellio 42 



Potamogyrus 780 



Potamotrygon hystrix 498 



Praticolelia ampla 762 



berlandieriana 762 



griseola 762 



strebeliana 762 



Praxilla challengerice 485 



Prionotus evolans 336 



Prochilodus scrofa 511 



Prophysaon 628 



ca?ruleum 626 



Prosopis 16 



Prosthesima 60 



insularis 126 



morgaui 341 



perplexa 341 



signata 341 



sp 126 



Protistius 737,738 



semotilus 737, 738 



Psalis 301 



americana 301 303 



gagathina 303 



morbida 301 



pulchra 303 



rosenbergi 303 



Psaltriparus miniimis 13 



Psammobia mississippiensis 262 



Psectrogaster curviventris 509 



rhomboides 509 



Pseudocreobotra 716 



amarse 716, 717 



ocellata 716 



wahlbergii 716 



Pseudohyalina minuscula 764 



Pseudomantis 704 



albofimbriata 704 



nemoralis 704 



Pseudoplatystoma coruscans 499 



Pseudostoma castanops 2S 



Pseudosubulina berendti 774 



b. occidentalis 774 



texoloensis 774 



Pseudotsuga mucronata 5 



Ptolea trifoliata 252 



Pterois lunulata 166 



Pterophyllum 534 



Pterygophlichthys anisitsi 503, 504 



juvens 504 



Pungitius pusillus 169 



Pupa blandi 616 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



847 



Pupa polvonense 769, 770 



Pupicte 204,706 



Pupisoma americamini 763 



Pupoides maj'ginatiis 766 



Purpura hsemastoma 758 



Putorius (Lutreola) vison 25 



Pvciiogvra berendti 768 



Pvragra 299 



iuscata 299 



saussurei 299 



Pyramidella crenulata 758 



Pvramidula 764 



alteruala ,. 213 



cooperi 616 



c. depressa 616 



hemphilli 616 



hermanni 770 



perspectiva 213 



shimekii 616 



solitaria 213 



■\"ictoriana 7(i9 



Pyrgomantis 702 



singularis 702 



Pyrgulopsis 780 



patzcuarensis 780 



Pyrites 397 



PyrrhiiJina australe 508 



semifasciata 508 



Pvrula papyratia 758 



Pvthium..." 360 



Quartz 400,700 



Quartz-felsite 400 



Quartzites 397 



Quercus californicus 5 



virginiana 235, 251 



Querquedula discors 26 



Raia birostris 332 



manatia 332 



Rana viresccns 539 



Recluzia 777 



Regulus satrapa olivaceus 14 



Restio 423 



«nus 423 



Retroculus 532 



Rhadinia 557 



Rhamdia quelen 499 



Rhamphobrachium 448 



Rhineura 557 



Rhinochilus 556, 557 



lecontii 34, 551, 553 



Rhinoscopelus 754 



coruscans 754 



oceanicus 754, 755 



Rhombodera 710,712 



basalis 710 



flava 710 



laticoUis 710 



lingulata 710 



major 710 



meg.'rra 710 



pectorali? 710 



Rhombodera scutata 710 



tamolana 712 



taprobansB 710 



titania 710 



valida 710 



Rhopalonia geophili 338 



Rli3'ncobolus americanus 56, 57 



Rhyolites 397, 398 



Rissoina browniana' 758 



Roeboides microlepia 526 



prognathus 526 



'Rotatoria, 363, 367. 376, 384, 389, 391, 



392 



Sabellidje 402 



Salixnigi'a 233 



Salminus brevideiis 526 



maxillosus 536 



Salmo falcatus 527 



Salpinctes obsoletus 29 



Salticus 140 



Salvadora 556 



grahamfe 541, 549, 553 



grahamiffi 30, 33 



Saraca 533 



Sarcinatrix 308 



Sayornis sava 9, 27 



Scalesetosus 420,797 



forraosus 403 



Sceloporus 558 



clarkii 30,31 



couchii 540, 552 



consobrinus 30, 31, 546, 552 



floridanus 553 



magister 31, 546 



ornatus 552 



scalaris 552 



spinosus clarkii 546, 552, 556 



s. spinosus 553, 556 



thayeri 553, 555 



torquatus poinsetti, 30, 31, 546, 



552 



undulatus 540, 546, 554 



u. consobrinus 540 



variabilis 552 



yarrowi 552 



Scliasicheila fragilis 782 



hidalgoana 783 



minuscula 783 



nicoleti 784 



vanattai 783, 784 



V. tricostata 783 



Schazicheila hidalgoana 7 83, 781^ 



Scliinzia 353, 356 



cellulicola 353 



Sci?ena phunieri 31^8 



Scionella 473 



japonica 473 



Sciurus fremonti lychnuchus 18, 19 



f. neomexicanus 18, 19 



grammurus 21 



niogollonensis 20 




848 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Dec, 



Sciurus quadrivittatus 20 



Scobinella 275, 276, 278 



coelata 273,274 



famelica 274 



laeviplicata 278 



macer 274 



pluriplicata 273, 274 



reticulatoides 278 



Scolecophagus cyanocephalus 27 



Scolopendra woodi 636 



Scolopocrj^jtops 44, 56, 637 



sexspinosus 42, 637 



ScorpjEnidte 166 



Scorpionidea 138 



Scutigera forceps 42, 44 



Scytodes fusca 340 



longipes 340 



Seila adamsii 758 



Selasiella joaquinag 772 



minima 773 



modesta 773,774 



perpusilla 773, 774 



subc^dindrica 773, 774 



Selene vomer 328 



Selenops insularis 341 



Semele bellastriata 757 



Seminatrix 557 



Serpulidffi 402 



Serranidse 329 



Serrasalmo humeralis 528 



spilopleura 528 



Setanoperca 533 



Shepherdia 353, 354 



Sialia mexicana occidentalis. 14 



Sibon septentrionale 554 



Sigalconidse 426 



Sigaretus perspecti\iis 758 



Sigmodon berlandieri 23 



hispidus berlandieri 23 



Silurid£e 346 



Silurus bagre 346 



marinus 3^6 



Singa cre^\-ii 341, 342 



Sistrurus 558 



catenatus consors 553 



miliarius 554 



Sitta canadensis 13 



carolinensis aculeata 13 



Soleida; 350 



Sorubim lima 500 



Sparassidse 130 



Sparassus 129 



Sparatta 306 



flavipennula 306 



pelvimetra 306 



pygidiata 306 



semirufa 300 



Sparidfp 331 



Sparus bajonado 331 



chrysomus 330 



chrysurus 330 



Spams rhomboides 331 



sciurus 330 



Spermophilus mexicanus parvidens 21 



spilosoma arens 20, 21 



s. marginatus 21 



tridecenalineatus var. pallidus 21 



Sphseriidse 784 



Sphterium 784 



costaricanum 784 



fabale 787 



jalapensis 785, 786, 787 



luridm-n 784,787 



martensi 784, 785, 786 



novoleonis •. 784 



(Musculimn) novoleonis 787 



partumeium 788 



rliomboideum 787 



striatinum 785 



subtransversum 784, 786, 788 



(Musculium) subtransversum 787 



sulcatum 787 



triangulare 784, 785, 786 



Sphodromantis.... 708 



bioculata 708 



gastrica 70S 



lineola 708 



rudoltffi 70S 



Sphodropoda 706 



rudoll'se 70S 



Sphyradium 770 



edentulum 770 



polvonense 769 



Sphyrsena 750 



barracuda 749 



borealis 750 



commersoni 749 



ensis 750 



guachancho 750 



picudilla 750,752 



snodgrassi 749 



sphyrajna 752 



tome 750 



Aailgaris 752 



Sphyrsenidae 749 



Spliyrapicus thyroideus 8, 15 



varius ruber 8, 15 



Spilacris 630 



maculatus 630 



Spilotes 297,557 



corais couperi 554 



Spiraxis acvis 775 



borealis 775 



intermedius 775 



lu'uapamensis 775 



Spirobolus 51 



sp 42 



Spisula solidissima similis 757 



Spizella atrigularis 28 



breweri 28 



Statilia 704 



haani 704 




1903.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



849 



Statilia maculata 704 



nemoralis 704 



Steatoda 60,61 



borealis 129,133 



marmorata 113 



Stegodyphus lineatus 140 



Stcnanima 218 



fulvum 617-624 



f. piceum 491 



gallanim 239 



Stenocephalus juli 51 



Stenogyridfe 775 



Stenophora 42 



juli 42-44. 51, 634, 635 



jiilipiisiUi 634, 635, 640 



spiroboli 51, 638 



Stenophorida? 640 



Stenotreina labrosum S02 



Stephanoceros, 364, 374, 382, 384, 387, 



390, 391 



eichhornii 374 



firnbriatus 374 



glacialis 374 



Stephanophora locustse-carolinse, 54, 



640 



Stephanopis rugosa 341 



Stereophsedusa 318 



Sternarchus albifrons 530 



Sternaspida? 487 



Sternaspis scutata 487 



Stilosoma 557 



Storeria dekayi 554 



occipitomaculata 554 



Strebelia berendti 774 



Streptostyla clavatula 774 



edwardsiana 774 



noA'oleonis 774 



sumichrasti 774 



Strigilla flexuosa 757 



Strobilops strebeli 766 



Strombus pugiUus 758 



pugillus alatus 758 



Stygnus insulanu,s 342 



Stylaroides borealis 487 



Stvlophora concolor 133 



Stylorhynchus 643 



Succinea avara 213, 616 



tlalpamcnsis 776 



t. ouitseana 776 



virgata 776 



Succineida" 213,776 



Symbranchus marmoratus 530 



Sympliysodon 533 



Synagelessp 341 



Tachycinota thalassina 28 



Tagelus divisus 757 



Tantilla 557 



gracilis 542, 553, .556 



nigriceps 34, 551, 553 



Tapiiiopalongidens 128, 136 



Tarachodes insidiator 702 



54 



Taraxacum taraxacum \590 



Taxeodonta W4, 206 



Tegenaria 60,139 



derhami, 92. 128, 129, 133, 136, 

 139, 142, 144 



Teinostonius cryptospira 758 



Tellidora cristata 757 



Tellina alternata 757 



consobrina 757 



lintea 757 



magna 757 



pauperata 757 



perovata 262 



pilsbryi 263 



polita 757 



tenera 757 



vicksburgensis 263 



Tenodera 704,705 



aridifolia 704 



a. var. sinensis 703 



australasise 704 



chloreudeta 704 



fasciata 704 



sinensis 705 



superstitiosa 704, 705 



tessellata 704 



Temnothorax 220 



recedens 220 



TerebeUida^ 471 



Terebellides stroemi 478 



s. var. japonica 478 



Terebra dislocata 757 



Terrapene Carolina Carolina 554 



c. triunguis 554 



major 539 



ornata 544, 553 



triunguis 539 



Testudo 557 



berlandieri 552 



polvphemis 554 



Tetragnatha 130 



extensa 130, 132 



sp 340 



Tetragonoptenis chalceus 523 



interruptus 519 



orbicularis 523 



paucidens 522 



rivularis interrupta 519 



rufipes 52S 



Tetramorium ca^.spitum 217 



Tetraodon aerostaticus 164 



immaculatus 165 



testudineus SSS 



Tetraodon tida; 164, 333, 350 



Tetrodon astrotsenia 16^ 



geometricus 333 



immaculatus var. immaculata 165 



lineatus I64 



stellatus 164 



testudineus 333 



Teutana 60, 61, 139 




850 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACaDEMY OF 



[Dec. 



112 



Teutana triangulosa ^ - 



Thalanessa oculata 'tr: 



Thamnophis proxima -^^^ 



Thargalia ^27 



brevittata ^^^ 



" 701 



Tlieopompa 



ophthalmica ■_■■■■ i"^ 



servillei ^01,702 



Theopropus ' _ 



contatrix ' ' 



elegans -33 



?!Sd^"::::::::::65;i35;i3i;uo,i4i 



Theridium , „r, 



quadripunctatum ^J- 



studiosum Vn^' 191 "Vos" 129 



tep.danorum, ^^^-^^^^y.^^^^i 



triangulifer.. 1^9 1 



Theridula sphterula ^^" 



triangularis ^*^ 



Tliomisus 24 



Thomomys fossor ^^ 



fulvus V- •; Xq 



Thryomanes be^-icku leucogaster.. ^29 



Thvrina joa 



saiatemalensis ^^" 



Thysanophora 'J^^ 



Cffica ^go 



coloba :."" Ip. , 



conspurcateUa '-63 



fischeri i^o 



granum i^„ 



r ■ ... ^o-j 



!^o™i 763 



impura „gQ 



SS'"' :::::::::::::":::•• ^64 



tilLci OAO 



Tiza ; 91 j^ 



Tomognathus ainencanus ^J" 



TomSSST' ::::::::::793;798,8oo: 



"^'TlgoTandica-.: 798,799,800, 



ket'erstinii T^ 



iSizz 500 



Tomatina candei '^' 



Toxostoma crissalis j^ 



Trachelas bicolor ^^^ 



TrachvcorvPtes striatulus ou^ 



TrachVmvrmex temf ex f^^ 



Trichobranchus bibranchiatus */ ^ 



glacialis ^^ 



Trichodiscina cordovana. ^^_ ^o^ 



Trichorhvnchus lithoboli ^ (.3/ 640 



pulcher -^^'^2,640 



Trigla Carolina ^^^ 



evolans ^^^ 



Triglidse. 



333 



Triodopsis fallax |96 



f . var. minor j^Z^ 



Triton conradianus -^^ 



Tritonidea canceUaria 'o' 



Tritonopsis subalveata ^'^ 



Trochatella simpsom '^^ 



Trochilus alexandri ■_■■- -^j^ 



Trochosa inf emails 1-9. :[^; 



reticulata J^^ 



terricola ^rZ 



Troglodytes hiemalis pacificus 12 



Tropidoclonium lineatum ^&^ 



Tropidonotus -.nc-Q %V(\ 



' olarkii •''49, -^oS, 55b 



SSSr ::::.:. 555; 554 



SSSs:::: 287,293,294 



rhombifer o49, oo4, o56 



sipedon fasciatus ■_■- od6 



s. transversus 907 9S' 990 



trix-ittatus 28/, 28S, ^yu 



T^^^^eta solidaginis -^'^ 



Tsliga mertensiana " 



Turbinella perexilis ^'^ 



Turbo castaneus crenulatus /o^ 



Turbonilla conradi '^° 



Turdus cinereus peltatus ^-^^ 



Tursiops ;,••;, ' , 



truncatus '^^'^' ^Z!.^ 



tursio ; ^1^ 



Tvlosurus amazomcus ^^^ 



Tvphlomolge rathbuni ^^ 



Tvrannophadusa ^^^ 



Tyrannus verticalis -^ 



Uaru .•••■•■; ^AO 



Uloborus geniculatus ;J^u 



j Unio plexus ^°* 



' Unionidse ' ^ 



Urocoptidse ^ 



Urocoptis __g 



^*^ OTnata ;:::''''^''^""'34;'546, 552 



stansburyana..30, 31, 546, 552, 556 



svmmetrica •J^'^ 



Yallonia cvclophoreUa ;;;_- 0^^ 



Yalvata humeralis _• ' '^> ' i,^ 



h. var. patzcuarensis ^^^ 



h. pilsbrj'i T,/y 



humerosa ' -^ 



sincera -- ^'o 



strebeli "^.7^9 



Valvatidse ''J 



Vates Tvalilbergi 'J^° 



Vatins .•••■•■"••". 'cyaA 



Venericardia diversidentata -o^ 



rotunda -^, 



vicksburgensis -^ 



! Venus cancellatus i2i^ 



cribraria. '^^ 



1 cuneimeris '__' 



io7 



mercenana. 




1903.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OJ/ PHILADELPHIA. 



851 



Venus m. mortoni 757 



pygma?a '. 757 



Vespertilio evotis 23 



Viola 656-698 



aberraiis 683 



acuta 690 



affinis, 663, 665, 671, 672, 675, 690, 

 694, 695 



alabamensis 690 



alba 691 



albiflora 691 



alleghauiensis 691 



alsophila 667, 691 



amoena 691, 694 



amorphophvlla 691 



angella? ". 665, 678, 691 



arenaria 691 



arvensis 689, 691 



asarifolia 676, 677, 691, 698 



atlantica 679, 691, 692 



atropurpurea 691 



attenuata 669, 691 i 



australis 691 \ 



barbata 691 



Ijelvisiana 691 



bcrnardi 691, 698 



l)icoIor 689,692 



blanda, 665, 666, 667, 669, 671, 

 672, 692, 693, 695, 696, 698 



boscii 692 



brainerdii 692 



brittoniana, 662, 664, 665, 679, 

 680, 682, 685, 692, 695 



canadensis 664, 689, 692, 693 



canina 688,692 



cardminefolia 692 



Carolina 690,692 



ciliata 674, 675, 692 



clandestina 666, 692 



communis 670, 692 



congener 676, 692 



conjugons 692 



consors 692 



cordata 672, 674, 692 



cordifolia 675, 692 



cordiformis 693 



crassula 693 



crenulata 663, 665. 674, 693 



cucullata, 663-665, 672-674, 680, 

 692-698 



c. Aar. cordata 674 



c. leptosepala 674 



c. macrotis 73 



cuspidata 693, 695-697 



debilis 93,695 



dentata 693 



denticulosa 693 



dicksonii 693 



disitata 693 



dilatata 677, 693, 697, 698 



domestica 670, 693 



Viola elegantula 693 



eniarginata, 662, 663, 665, 666, 

 680, 684, 685, 692, 693, 697 



eriocarpon 693 



esculenta 693 



eurvbiaefolia 693 



falcata 693 



fimbriatula. 662-666, 675, 682- 

 685, 692, 693, 696, 697 



f. aberrans 665, 683 



flabellifolia 694 



fletcheri 694 



fragrans 694 



gibbosa....- 694 



glaberrima 694 



hastata 694, 697, 698 



heteropliylla, 676, 677, 691, 693, 



694 



hicksii •. 694 



hispidula 694 



illinoiensis 694 



inornata 682, 694 



insisnis 694,698 



labradorica 688, 694, 696 



Isptecierulea 694 



lanceolata, 662, 664, 665, 668, 669, 

 690,691,693,694,698 



latiuscula 694 



leconteana 664-668, 691, 694 



• _ leptosepala 673, 674, 695 



' lewisiana 695 



lineariloba 682, 694, 695 



macounii 695 



macrotis 673, 695 



melissspfolia 695 



mistassinica 695 



nuihlenbergiana 688, 695 



muhlenbersii, 664, 686, 688, 691, 

 692, 694, 695, 696 



I mulfordrp 695 



' multicaiilis 695 



1 multifida 680, 695 



I nepettefolia 695 



I nesiotica 695 



' nodosa 69.5 



I nuttallii 695 



obliqua, 670, 671, 672, 677, 692, 

 I 695 



j ochroleuca 687, 695 



odorata... 695, 698- 



1 ovata 65, 682, 691, 696 



j o. belvisiana 682 



pallens 696 



palmata, 662-666, 675, 692-694, 

 ! 696, 698 



p. angellae 662, 67S 



p. dilatata, 662, 665, 672, 676, 681 



p. esculenta 676 



p. fragrans 676 



p. variabilis 662, 677 



p. vulgaris 676 




852 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Viola palustriformis G96 



palustris 696 



papilionacea, 662, 665, 666, 670- 



673, 683, 685. 691-694, 696 



pedata, 661, 662, 665, 666, 680- 



682, 691, 694-696 



p. atropurpurea 680, 692 



p. bicolor 6S0, 694 



p. inornata 6S1 



p. lineariloba 6S1 



p. ranunculifolia 681 



pedatifida 691,696 



pensj'lvanica ^S^, 696 



popiilifolia 696 



porteriana 683,696 



pratincola 696 



primulaefolia, 668, 669, 682, 691, 

 692, 696 



p. boscii 688 



p. cordata 668 



priosepala 696 



puberula 696 



pubescens 683, 693, 696 



p. eriocarpon 686, 687 



punctata 696 



pj'gmaea 696 



radicans 696 



rafinesquii, 661, 664, 686, 689, 697, 



698 



ranunculifolia 697 



renifolia 664, 668, 697 



repens 695,697 



rostrata 664, 689, 697 



rotundifolia, 664, 665, 666, 672, 



692. 696, 697 



sagittata, 662, 663, 665, 683, 684, 



685, 691, 693, 694, 696, 697 



s. hicksii 682 



scabriuscula, 664, 686, 687, 694, 



697 



selkirki 664. 666, 670, 697 



septemloba, 662, 663. 664, 665, 

 678, 679, 681, 691, 697 



septentrionalis 697, 698 



sororia 662, 676, 677, 695, 697 



s. nuttallii 674 



striata 686, 687, 693, '695-697 



subsagittata 697 



subsinuata 697 



subviscosa 695,698 



subvestita 697 



teneUa 689, 697, 698 



tenuipes 698 



thompsonse 698 



tricolor 698 



triloba 57^,698 



tripartita 698 



tiliginosa 688, 695, 698 



vagula 698 



variabilis 665, 677, 698 



variegata 698 



Viola velutina 698 



venustula 698 



A-iarum...'. 698 



vicinalis 698 



villosa 663, 675, 690, 692, 698 



V. cordifolia 6G5, 672, 674, 695 



vittata 698 



A-ulgaris 698 



watsoni 698 



Vireo huttoni huttoni 12 



h. insularis 12 



solitarius cassini 11 



Virginia elegans 542, 554 



Viridite 397 



Vitrea 205,206 



andrewsoe 205, 207, 209, 210 



capsella 205, 207-210, 211, 212 



c. lacteodens 207, 211 



c. placentuLa 210 



clappi 205,207 



liainmonis 204, 205 



indentata 204, 767, 768 



i. umbilicata 616 



lamellidens 207, 208, 209, 210 



multidentata 20.5-209 



placentula 205, 207, 210, 211 



significans 207. 211, 212 



simpsoni 205, 207, 211, 212 



walkeri 207, 209 



Vitrinella mooreana 758 



multistriata 758 



striata 758 



Wagneria tauricornis 341 



Wala peckhaniae 341 



vernalis 341 



Wilsonia pusilla pileolata 29 



Wulfila parvula 340, 342 



Xanthidium 565, 586, 593 



Xanthonyx salleanus 762 



Xenopicus albolarvatus 8, 15 



Xiphorhamphus f alcatus 527 



ferox 527 



lacustris 527 



XiphorhjTichus f alcatus 527 



Xylopinus saperdoides 47 



Xystsema cinereum 332 



XVsticus 60, 61, 140 



audax 129, 134 



stomachosus, 122, 129, 134, 135, 



142 



triguttatus 129 



Yucca 16 



Zacoleus 626, 628 



- idahoensis 626 



Zamenis 557 



con.strictorflaAdventris 553 



flagellum 34 



f. flagellum 549, 554, 556 



f. frenatus 549 



tieniatus oruatu? 34, 549, 553 



t. taeniatus 553 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



853 



Zenaidura macroura 26 



Zeus vomer S£S 



Zonites andrewsae 206, 209 



caxDseUa 206,, 210, 212 



placentulus 20^,210 



sienificans 20^,212 



Zonites simpsoni 212 



Zonitid£e 204,766 



Zonitoides arboreus 213, 762, 768 



minusculus 213, 768 



Zonotrichia leucophrys 28 



^ 




854 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1903. 



Anderson, Malcolm P., and Joseph 

 Grinnell. Birds of the Siskiyou 

 Mountains, California: a problem 

 in distribution, 4. 



Antelo, A. J., announcement of death 

 of, 150. 



Attaches of the Academj^ 819. 



Banks, Nathan. A list of Arachnida 

 from Hayti, \y\ih descriptions of 

 new species (Plate XV), 325, 340. 



Bilgram, Hugo. Inclusions in Quartz, 

 700. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 812 



Blake, Charles A., announcement of 

 death of, 625 



Botanical Section, report of. 815. 



Boyer, Charles S., report of the Bio- 

 logical and ^Microscopical Section, 

 812. 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. The Varia- 

 tions in Eutrenia in the Pacific Sub- 

 region, 151, 286. Texas reptiles and 

 their faunal relations, 543. Note on 

 Crotalus scutulatus Kenn., 625. 



Brov\Ti, Stewardson, report of Botani- 

 cal Section, 815. 



By-Laws, revision of, 339. 



Calvert, P. P., Ph.D. Gangha of 

 Odonata, 760. 



Carus, J. Victor, announcement of 

 death of, 324. 



Ca.sey, Thomas L. Notes on the Con- 

 rad collection of Vicksburg fossils, 

 with descriptions of new species, 150, 

 261. 



Chamberlain, Ralph V. Mvriapoda 

 from Beulah, N. M., 2, 35. New 

 Lithobii from California and Oregon, 

 150, 152. 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. On a col- 

 lection of Anthropoids, 719. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Bees of the genus 

 Nomada from California, 559. North 

 American bees of the genus Nomada, 

 580. Variations in the snail-genus 

 Ashmunella, 015. 



Conchological Section, report of, 812. 



Conklin, Edwin G., Ph.D. The cau.se 

 of inverse sj'mmetry, 753. 



Corresponding Secretarv, report of, 

 804. 



Council for 1904, 819. 



Crawley, Howard. List of the Poly- 

 cvstid Gregarines of the United 

 States (Plates I, II, III), 2, 41. No- 

 sema geophile, sp. n., a Myxos- 

 poridian parasite of GeophUus, 324, 

 337. The Polycystid Gregarines of 

 the United States (second contribu- 

 tion) (Plate XXX), 632. 



Curators, report of, 80S. 



Dubois, Howard W. The Rockies of 

 British Columbia (no abstract), 324. 



Eigenmann, Carl H., and Clarence 

 Hamilton Kennedy. On a collec- 

 tion of fishes from Paraguay, with a 

 svnopsis of the American genera of 

 Cichlids, 497. 



Elections of members and correspond- 

 ents, 1903, 820. 



Election of officers, etc., SIS. 



Fielde, Adele M. Supplementary notes 

 on an Ant, 491. Experiments wath 

 Ants induced to swim, 617. 



Fowler, Henrj- W. Descriptions of 

 several fishes from Zanzibar Island, 

 two of which are new. (Plates VI, 

 VII, VIII), 150, 161. Life colors of 

 Poecilia limantouri and description 

 of a new Heros from Mexico, 285, 

 320. A new Gurnard from Florida, 

 with notes on the colors of some 

 other Florida fishes, 324, 328. Notes 

 on a few fishes from the Mosquito 

 Coast of Nicaragua, 346. Descrip- 

 tion of new, little kno\^^l and typical 

 AtherinidEe (Plates XLI-XLIV), 

 727. New and little kno\^^l ]\Iugili- 

 dfp and Sphyrrenidte (Plates XL^', 

 XLVI), 743. Description of a new 

 liantern Fish, 754. 



Frazer, Persifor, D. es-Sc. History of 

 the Caribbean Islands from a petro- 

 graphic point of Aiew (abstract), 396. 




1903.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



855 



Gegenbauer, Carl, announcement of 

 death of, 625. 



General Index, 854. 



Grote, Augustus R., announcement of 

 death of, 625. 



Harshberger, John W. The mutation 

 of Hibiscus moscheutos L., 284, 326. 

 The form and structure of the Myco- 

 domatia of MjTica cerifera L. (Plates 

 XVI, XVII), 352. 



HoweU, Samuel B., M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 792. 



Index to Genera, 830. 



James, Buslirod W., M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 2. 



Keeley, Frank J., Preparation of Di- 

 atoms, 2. Inclusions in Quartz, 700. 



Lesley, Joseph P., announcement of 

 death of, 625. 



Lewis, Enoch, announcement of death 

 of, 760. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith, report of the 

 Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 810. 



McKean, William V., announcement of 

 death of, 285. 



Members and correspondents elected, 

 820. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 810. 



Monks, Sarah P. Regeneration of the 

 body of a Starfish, .351. 



Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr., Ph.D. 

 Studies on the habits of Spiders, par- 

 ticularly those of the mating period 

 (Plates" IV, V), 59. On the mor- 

 phology of the Rotatorian family 

 Flosculariida; (Plates XVIII, XIX, 

 XX, XXI), 363. Supplementary 

 notes on Spiders of the genera Lycosa, 

 Pardosa, Pi rata and Dolomedes from 

 the northeastern United States (Plate 

 XXXI), 645. 



Moore, Clarence B. Certain mounds of 

 the Central Florida West Coast, 324. 

 Certain mounds of the Apalachicola 

 river, 324. 



Moore, J. Percy. Polychseta from the 

 coastal slope of Japan and from 

 Kamchatka and Bering Sea (Plates 

 XXIII, XXIV, XX^% XXVI, 

 XXVII), 401. Descriptions of two 

 new species of Polychseta from 

 Wood's Hole, Massachusetts (Plate 

 XL), 720. Some pelagic Polychseta 

 new to the Wood's Hole fauna (Plate 

 LV), 793. Report of Corresponding 

 Secretary, 804. 



Museum, additions to the, 821. 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D. Report of the 

 Recording Secretary, 802. Report 

 of the Librarian, 806. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 817. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., D.Sc. Mollusca of 

 western Kansas and adjacent States, 

 with a revision of Paravitrea (Plates 

 IX, X, XI), 150, 193. Additions to 

 the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, No. 

 VIII (Plate XIV), 284, 315. A new 



. Japanese Pleurotomaria (Plate 

 XXII), 496. A new American 

 genus of Arionidse (Plate XXVIII), 

 626. Mexican land and fresh- water 

 mollusks (Plates XLVII-LIV), 

 761. A new Hawaiian Limnsea, 790. 

 Report of Conchological Section, 

 813. 



Rand, Theodore D., announcement of 

 death of, 325. 



Rehn, James A. G. A revision of the 

 Orthopterous genus Homoeogamia, 

 150, 177. Studies in American For- 

 ficulid:e, 284, 299. Studies in Old 

 World Mantidaj (Orthoptera) , 701. 



Rehn, James A. G., and T. D. A. Cock- 

 erell. A new genus of Stenopel- 

 matinse (Orthoptera) from New Mex- 

 ico, 630. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 802. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 

 802. 



Report of the Corresponding Secretary, 

 804. 



Report of the Librarian, 806. 



Report of the Curators, 808. 



Reports of the Sections, 810. 



Schaeffer, Charles, M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, and minute there- 

 on, 760. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M.D. Fishes of 

 Nantucket (no abstract), 760. i 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. A new species 

 of Nyctalemon (Plate XIII), 151, 

 298. Report of Entomological Sec- 

 tion, 814. 



Standing Committees, 1. 



Stone, Witmer. A collection of rep- 

 tiles and batrachians from Arkansas, 

 Indian Territory and western Texas, 

 538. Racial variation in plants and 

 animals, with special reference to the 

 Violets of Philadelphia and vicinity 

 (Plates XXXI-XXXIX), 656. Re- 

 port of Ornithological Section, 817. 



Stone, Witmer, and James A. G. 

 Rehn. On the terrestrial verte- 

 brates of portions of southern New 

 Mexico and western Texas, 16. 



Thomson, Mrs. Edgar, announcement 

 of death of, 760. 




856 PROC. OF ACAD. OF NAT. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. [DeC, 1903. 



Trotter, Charles W., announcement of 

 death of, 760. 



True, Frederick W. A note on the 

 common Bottle-nose Porpoise of the 

 North Atlantic, Tursiops tnmcatus 

 (Montagu), 284, 313. 



Vanatta, E. G. A list of shells col- 

 lected in western Florida and Horn 

 Island, Mississippi, 756. 



Vaux, George, Jr., appointment as 

 Solicitor of the Academy, 1. 



Wheeler, William Morton. A rev-ision 

 of the North American Ants of the 

 genus Lep to thorax Mayr (Plate 

 XII), 150, 215. 



Woolman, Lewis, announcement of 

 death of, 284; minute regarding, 

 285. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE I. 



CRAWLEY ON GREGARINES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE II. 



CRA^vVLEY ON GREGARINES. 





PROC. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



^9 



PLATE III. 



'^' 37 



CRAWLEY ON GREGARINES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE IV. 



MONTGOMERY ON HABITS OF SPIDERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



MONTGOMERY ON HABITS OF SPIDERS. 





K 



O 

 LO 



r 

 c 

 z 



G 



r 

 > 



> 





> 



5 

 o 



z 



a 

 w 



> 

 o 



w 



o 



r 

 w 



a) 









PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE IX. 



PILSBRY. MOLLUSCA OF WESTERN ARKANSAS, etc. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE X. 







4e/ 



6<^ 



"■■ ^ — — 



7 8*. 



PILSBRY. MOLLUSCA OF WESTERN ARKANSAS, ETC. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XL 





II "* 



PILSBRY. MOLLUSCA OF WESTERN ARKANSAS, ETC. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XII. 



WHEELER ON LEPTOTHORAX. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903 



PLATE XIII. 



NYCTALEMON CURVATA SKINNER. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903 



PLATE XIV. 



% 



3. 





./^ 



)4 



V 



y 



4. 



r- 



/>/,/ 



Mi. 



m 



13. 



11. 



14. 



12. 



16. 



10. 



17 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. 



18 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XV. 



BANKS. ARACHNIDA OF HAYTI. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XVI. 



HARSHBERGER. MYCODOMATIA OF MYRICA CERIFERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XVII. 



HARSHBERGER. MYCODOMATIA OF MYRICA 



CERIFERA. 





MONTGOMERY, MORPHOLOGY OF FLOSCULARIiD^E. 





JERY. MORPHOLOGY OF FLOSCULARIID^, 





MONTOOMEBY. MORPHOLOGY OF FLOSCULABIID^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXI. 





Fill. 



M.Cl-\l 



Fl.C.2 



4 J FLC3 A 



MONTGOMERY. MORPHOLOGY OF FLOSCULARIID^E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXII. 



PLEUROTOMARIA HIRASEI PILSBRY. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXIir. 



MOORE ON POLYCHAETA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. 190S. 



Y/ 



'iij 



PLATE XXIV. 



f 



,0/ ( Mmi 





i I 



MOORE ON POLYCHAETA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



^'^A 





M 



.39 / 







w 



y-^ " 



^/^ 



^^; 



lit 



I \ 



./! 



\ \ i 



^^^r^, 



6-9 



'i.J 



MOORE ON POLYCHAETA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 190S. 



PLATE XXVI. 



7/i 



^;;/ I 



VI 



1 7?\ 7. 



MOORE ON POLYCHAETA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHIL.A. 1903. 



PLATE XXVII. 



MOORE ON POLYCHAETA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXVIII. 



1$ f» 



PILSBRY. A NEW AMERICAN ARIONID. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXIX. 



MONTGOMERY. SPIDERS OF NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903 

 I 



PLATE XXX. 



CRAWLEY ON GREGARINES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXXI. 



STONE. VARIATION IN VIOLETS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903 



PLATE XXXII. 



I 



STONE. VARIATION IN VIOLETS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXXIII. 



STONE. VARIATION IN VIOLETS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXXIV. 



STONE. VARIATION IN VIOLET.'^ 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXXV. 



STONE. VARIATION IN VIOLET 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXXVI. 



STONE. VARIATION IN VIOLETS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXXVII. 



STONE. VARIATION IN VIOLETS. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XXXIX. 



STONE. VARIATION IN VIOLETS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XL 



13 14 



MOORE. NEW P0LYCH.4i:TA. 





> 

 X K 



o w 



> z 



s> 



3^ > 



> D 



a S 

 > ti] 



::^ I" 



r 



^ > 



o 



r o 



a r 

 ■ M 



■^ ■> V 





in 



> o 



H X 



X z 



M O 

 ^ % 



z S 



o 



C/5 



tIJ 



-:^^^^ 







■n 



O 



OQ 

 G 



E 

 O 



r 

 c 



'S, 



o 



o 



13 



w 





.5=t. 



m 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XLVII. 



3 a 



fjm\m 



lb 



7fii!u\ 



3b 



2b 



* -ia 



4b 



5. JW^'^ 5 a i^i/ ^^ ^^ 



PILSBRY. NEW MEXICAN MOLLUSCA 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



lb 



PLATE XLVIII. 



J^-"!^N 



.1 



*^. 



1 la 



4. 4a 



6 a 



3a 



\ 



■« 



% 



5b 



M«Mil»V«<N»^ 



7b 



7. Va 



PILSBRY. NEW MEXICAN MOLLUSCA. 



\ 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XLIX. 



la 



W 



5. 



\ 



lb 



3 b 



5 a " -y. 



::j '^^ 6 a 



PILSBRY. NEW MEXICAN MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



-^"^ 



.4 



m 



M 



J 



7a 



5. 



.^. 



IQa 



10. 



PILSBRY. NEW MEXICAN MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE LI. 



f^ 



^ 



la 



2a 



5a 



7a 



2b 



y^: 



f \ 



I 1 





6a 



V' 



8. 8 a 



PILSBRY NEW MEXICAN MQLLUSCA 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE LII. 



PILSBRY. NEW MEXICAN MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE LIII. 



PILSBRY. NEW MEXICAN MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE LIV. 



^ ^ ^ \^ s 



PILSBRY. NEW MEXICAN MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE LV. 



MOORE. PELAGIC POLYCH^TA. 




1 






PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





