



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1896. 



COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 

 Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D., George H. Horn, M. D., 



Henry Skinner, M. D. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



&y 



v 



PHILADELPHIA : 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1897. 




/ 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 4, 1897. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings of the 

 Academy for 1896 have been presented to the meetings of the Academy 

 as follows : — 



February 

 March 



April 

 April 

 May 

 May 



June 



July 



August 

 Augusl 



25, 1896. 

 17, 1896. 

 14, 1896. 

 21, 1896. 

 12, 1896. 



26, 1S96. 

 16, 1896. 

 21, 1896. 



1. 1896. 

 11. 1896. 



. September 15, 1896. 



. September 22, 1896. 



. October 27, 1S96. 



. December 8, 1896. 



. December 15, 1S96. 



. February 2, I - 



EDWARD J. NOLAN. 



Recording Secretary. 



THE EDWARDS d DOCKER CO , PRINTERS, PH1LA 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. A biographical sketch of Jobn Adams 



Ryder 222 



Note on a uniform plan of describing the human skull . . 170 



Brown, Amos P. The crystallization of Molybdenite 210 



Cockerell, T. D. A. The Bees of the Genus Perdita F. Smith . 25 

 Cook, O. F. Summary of the new Liberian Polydesmoidea . . 257 



Cope, Edward D. The Mesenteries of the Sauria 308 



New and little-known Mammalia from the Port Kennedy 



Bone Deposit 378 



On the Hemipenes of the Sauria 461 



Dall, William Healey. Insular landshell faunas, especially as 

 illustrated by the data obtained by Dr. G. Baur in the 



Galapagos Islands (Plates XV, XVI , XVII) 395 



Dolley, Charles S., M. D. The Planktonokrit. a centrifugal ap- 

 paratus for the volumetric estimation of the food-supply 



of oysters and other aquatic animals 276 



Fox, William J. Contributions to a knowledge of the Hymen- 



optera of Brazil. Xo. 1. Scoliidae 292 



The Hymenoptera collected by A. Donaldson Smith in 



Northeastern Africa 547 



Harris, Gilbert D. New and interesting Eocene Mollusca from 

 the Gulf States (Plates XVIII, XIX, XX, XXI, XXII, 



XXIII) 470 



Henry, Fredk. P., M. D. Remarks on Filaria 271 



Keller, Ida A. The coloring matter of the Aril of Celastrus 



scandens 212 



Pilsbry, Henry A. New species of the Helicoid Genus Polygyra 



(Plates II and III) . . 15 



Description of new species of Mollusks 21 



A remarkable Central American Melanian 269 




New species of fresh water Mollusks from South America 



(Plates XXVI and XXVII) 561 



Geology of the mussel-bearing clays of Fish-house, New 



Jersey 567 



Pilsbry, Henry A. and Samuel N. Rhoads. Contributions to the 



Zoology of Tennessee. No. 4, Mollusks 487 



Pilsbry, Henry A. and E. G. Vanatta. Catalogue of the species 



of Cerion, with descriptions of new forms (Plate XI) . . 315 

 Revision of the North American Slugs : Ariolimax and 



Aphallarion (Plates XII, XIII, XIV) 350 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee. 



No. 3, Mammals 175 



Synopsis of the Polar Hares of North America (Plates VI, 



VII, VIII, IX, X) 351 



Mammals collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith during his 

 expedition to Lake Rudolf, Africa (Plate XXV) .... 517 

 Shufeldt, R. W., M. D. Fossil birds ami Mammals from Grotto 



Pietro Tamponi and Grive-St. Alban I Plate XXTV 507 



Stone, Witmer. The molting of fcirds, with special reference to 

 the plumage of the smaller land birds of Eastern North 

 America (Plates IV and V) 108 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1896. 



January 7. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



One hundred and forty-three persons present. 



The deaths of Pv. B. Haines and A. C. Gorgas, M. D., members, 

 were announced. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees 

 have been appointed to serve during the current year : — 



On Library. — Arthur Erwin Brown, Harrison Allen, M. D., 

 Henry C. Chapman, M. D., Chas. P. Perot and Henry A. Pilsbry. 



On Publications. — Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, George 

 H. Horn, M. D., Edward J. Nolan, M. D. and Henry Skinner, M. D. 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Harrison Allen, M. D., 

 Benjamin Sharp, M. D., George Vaux, Jr., C. Newlin Peirce, 

 D. D. S. and Uselma C. Smith. 



Standing Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Isaac J. 

 Wistar, Theodore D. Rand, William Sellers and Benjamin Tilgh- 

 man. 



2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The following minute was unanimously adopted : 

 In view of the fact that General Isaac J. Wlstar has served 

 four consecutive years, the limit defined by the By-Laws, as Presi- 

 dent of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, his 

 fellow members desire to indicate their esteem and affection by a 

 cordial endorsement of the minute of recognition adopted by the 

 Council and to express the hope that the Academy may long profit 

 by the clearness of judgment, the knowledge of affairs and the 

 courtesy of personal intercourse which have been the characteristics 

 of his administration. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a second communication on his 

 ethnological studies in Alaska and Siberia. (No abstract). 



January 14. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon. M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



The death of Samuel G. Lewis, a member, was announced. 

 A paper entitled " New Species of the Helicoid Genus Polygyra," 

 by H. A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



Pleurotomaria crotaloides Morton in the New Jersey Oretacec — 

 Mr. H. A. Pilsbry exhibited a fossil Pleurotomaria from Mullica 

 Hill, New Jersey, found by Henry L. Balderston when on a excur- 

 sion of the geological class of Westtown School, and submitted to 

 the speaker by Lewis Woolman. 



The specimen is an internal cast and has lost the earlier whorls. 

 Enough remains, however, to distinguish it as a strongly marked 

 species, apparently identical with Cirrus crotaloides Morton 1 , des- 

 cribed from Erie, Alabama. 



The species has not been noticed since its original publication in 

 1834, and as Morton's description is very brief I less than three 

 lines long) and involves a -rave inaccuracy, and his figure is 

 decidedlv uncharacteristic, a more detailed description of the spec- 

 imen discovered by Mr. Balderston is lure given, followed by notes 

 on Morton's type specimen. It may be described as follows: 

 Pleurotomaria crotaloides Morton. (Plate I). 



Shell (cast) rather discoidal, the spire low-conic, base flattened 

 and very broadly umbilicated. Whorls slowly increasing, very 

 convex, separated by deep sutures; the last whorl strongly convex 

 on the upper surface, thence sloping outward to the periphery, which 

 is quite convex again, and near the base of the whorl. Base dis- 



1 Svnopsis of the Organic Remains of the Cretaceous Group of the I . 8. 

 p. 49, pi. 19, tig. 5. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



tinctly flattened, though convex. Umbilicus somewhat exceeding 

 one-third the total diameter, broad, deep and perspective, the sutures 

 within it strongly impressed. 



Diameter 7 cm. ; width of last whorl at aperture (measured below) 

 26 mm. ; alt. of same about 19 mm. 



The surface of the cast is smooth, not showing the impression of 

 the anal fasciole. The sinus was probably short, at least in compar- 

 ison with the large recent species ; but as the latter third of the 

 specimen is largely concealed by a hard arenaceous matrix, no im- 

 pression of the anal sinus can be made out. The unremoved matrix 

 shows clear impressions (external moulds) of the characteristic Lower 

 and Middle Marl bed species Plicatula urticosa Mort. and Ostrcea 

 larva Lam. 



In Pleurotomaria perlata Conr., the periphery is more strongly 

 keeled and the umbilicus narrower than in this species. In Pleuro- 

 trema solariformis Whitf. the whorls are flatter both outside and 

 within the umbilicus, and the slit is said to be bridged at intervals, 

 though this last feature is excessively obscure if present in the type 

 specimen. 



The specimen described above is the property of Henry L. Bal- 

 derston and has for the present been deposited in the museum of 

 the Academy. 



The type of Cirrus crotaloides Morton is a much smaller shell, 

 alt. 18. diam. 39 mm. It is an internal cast of whitish calcareous 

 material ("rotten limestone"). The last whorl has been broken 

 above near the aperture, and the whorls of spire are slightly distorted 

 on one side by pressure, and have lost considerable material by ero- 

 sion. The umbilicus is filled to its verge with a calcareo-arenaceous 

 matrix, harder than the cast itself, and a narrowly conic protuber- 

 ance of the same material projects over the apex. This has been 

 mistaken by Morton for the true spire, which accounts for his words 

 " the two first whorls [sic] suddenly produced." In reality the true 

 apex of the shell is concealed by this bit of hard matrix, about three 

 whorls being visible. The contour of the last whorl is practically 

 identical with that shown in the middle figure of the plate illustrat- 

 ing the Mullica Hill specimen. No impression of the anal sinus or 

 fasciole is visible on the cast. 



Erie, the localitv where Conrad collected the type of crotaloides, 

 is on the Black Warrior River, in the Selrua Chalk or " Rotten 

 Limestone " member of the Alabama Cretaceous. 



JaxuaPwY 21. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Fifty-two persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



" Descriptions of New Species of Mollusks," by H. A. Pilsbry. 



"The Molting of Birds with special reference to the Plumage 

 of the Smaller Birds of Eastern North America," by Witmer 

 Stone. 



The deaths of George Edward Dobson and Don Antonio del 

 Castillo, correspondents, were announced. 



January 28. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee, 

 No. 3, Mammals," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publica- 

 tion. 



A resolution having been adopted at the preceding meeting pro- 

 viding for an inquiry as to the best method of exterminating the 

 Tussock Moth, Orgyia leucostigma, with which the city squares and 

 trees are infested, the subject was referred to the Entomological 

 Section, a committee of which reported as follows : — 



We would recommend for the destruction and extermination of 



the Tussock Moth, Orgyia leucostigma, that as soon as possible all 

 the egg masses be hand-picked from the trees and destroyed. To be 

 effective, this must be done before the first day of April. The 

 trunk of each tree should be encircled about five feet from the 

 ground by a band of " Raupenleim " or Dendroline, four inches 

 wide and a quarter of an inch thick ; this band should be renewed 

 once a month during the summer season. All eggs, cocoons and 

 caterpillars segregated below the band should be gathered and 

 burned ; or they may be killed by steam or by the flame apparatus 

 used by house painters. 



The committee is confident that the above method, if properly 

 carried out, will exterminate the species in a given locality in two 

 or three seasons, and put them under control the first summer. The 

 committee has never seen this method properly carried out. Failure 

 in the past has been due to the integrity of the band not being 

 maintained and to the fact that a few segregated insects and i __- 

 were simply brushed to the ground where the eggs hatched and the 

 caterpillars reascended the trees. The life-history of the species 

 will show why the methods described must prove successful, and we 

 append an account of the transformations of this defoliator of our 

 shade trees: — 



"These caterpillars are first noticed on the trees in May. quite 

 small, feeding on the leaves, and somewhat indifferently on either 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



the upper or under side. When suddenly disturbed they drop from 

 their perch, suspending themselves by a silken thread, which is at- 

 tached to the leaf from which they started. They retain this habit 

 until they are nearly full-grown, which occurs about the middle or 

 toward the end of June. They then begin to wander, leaving the 

 trees on which they have fed, often crawling to others, and some- 

 times travelling several hundred feet from the starting point before 

 deciding to pupate. When they are ready for the change they spin 

 their whitish cocoon in any convenient place ; in the angles of 

 wooden tree boxes, under the rails of fences, in the interstices of bark 

 of the trees themselves, and in fact in any likely or unlikely place 

 except a perfectly flat, smooth surface. The caterpillar has a very 

 small supplv of silk only, and to eke this out uses its own hair 

 which it breaks off close to the body and forms the cocoon by a sort 

 of felting process, the silk serving to give form and holding together 

 the hair. In the cocoon the larva? change to dirty yellowish or 

 grav pupa?, the male much smaller than the female and showing 

 rudiments of the future wings, while the female is nearly double the 

 size and is grub or slug-like in form. Less than two weeks there- 

 after the final change takes place and the adults emerge — the sexes 

 strikingly dissimilar in appearance. The male has two pairs of 

 broad dusty gray wings, the anteriors crossed by narrow black 

 lines, and with a more or less prominent white spot toward the 

 lower outer angle. The feelers or antenna? are broadly feathered 

 and prominent, while the fore-legs are plumed and tufted, stretched 

 straight forward when the moth is at rest, so as to be the most 

 conspicuous feature of the insect. The female, on the other hand, is 

 entirely without wings, and somewhat slug-like, consisting princi- 

 pally of an abdomen, which is enormously distended with eggs. 

 When she emerges from the pupa, she crawls upon the cocoon to 

 which she clings, almost motionless for the balance of her life. 

 Egg laying begins soon after impregnation, the eggs being laid upon 

 the old cocoon and covered with a frothy mass, which soon be- 

 comes hard and brittle and is snowy-white. As the eggs are laid, 

 the female diminishes in size, eventually shrinking almost into 

 nothingness and finally drops off dead. Neither male nor female 

 takes food in this stage, their adult existence is devoted merely to 

 reproduction. From the egg-mas3es above described, a second 

 brood of larva? hatches in July and the same life cycle is repeated, 

 the adults of this brood appearing in September. The eggs laid at 

 this time of life remain unhatched during the winter." 1 



It will be readily seen from this life history that the females 

 being wingless the species can only be distributed by the crawling 

 propensity of the caterpillar ; this, together with the fact that the 

 eggs are all laid in a mass, gives the key to the method of destroy- 

 ing them. Each egg-mass destroyed means the death of about three 



^ept. Ent. Dep., N. J. Agric. Col. Exp. Station, 1894. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



hundred and fifty caterpillars. It takes a little experience to find the 

 egg-masses in the winter, and very few would escape, to hatch out, if 

 they were intelligently sought for. It must be remembered that 

 they go through their metamorphoses almost in an automatic way 

 and human endeavor to check them must proceed after the same 

 plan, an old Latin phrase not being forgotten : ' Nihil sine labore.' 

 Generally no attention is paid to pests of this kind until they 

 become so bad as to attract the attention of the general public. 

 Respectfully submitted by 



_ _ ' ■ '> Committee of the Entomological Section. 



The following were elected members: Henry Trimble, Charles 

 E. Hite, C. Howard Colket, George de Schweinitz, M. I)., James 

 C. Corry, D. Calvin Mensch, Edward Gideon, I. Norris de Haven, 

 Ruth Clement, M. D., and Sarah Y. Stevenson. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



NEW SPECIES OF THE HELICOID GENUS POLYGYRA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



At the request of Mr. John Ponsonby of London, the determina- 

 tion of a series of Polygyras of unknown or doubtful specific 

 identity, from his collection, was undertaken by the writer. In the 

 course of this work, the Mexican species of the genus were reviewed, 

 the identification of the Academy's material verified, and several 

 specific forms, hitherto nameless or under incorrect names, were 

 studied. 



The following communication relates to species of that character- 

 istic " Lower Sonoran " group of Polygyra, of which P. plagioglossa 

 and P. ventrosula represent approximately the extremes in the 

 cycle of form changes. 



The types of P. latispira, mater mo ntana and eughjpta are in the 

 collection of the Academy. The types of P. Ponsonbyi are in the 

 same collection and that of Mr. Ponsonby ; and the type of P. 

 albicostulata is in Ponsonby's collection. 



These five species, with P. Mearnsii and P. chiricahuana Dall 

 (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1895), and P. solidens and P. triangularis 

 Mabille (Bull. Soc. Philomath, de Paris, 1895) complete the list of 

 Polygyras given in the Guide to the Study of Helices, pp. 73, 74. 



P. latispira n. sp. PI. Ill, figs. 13, 14. 15, 16. 



Shell depressed, with convex spire, rounded but noticeably shoul- 

 dered periphery and convex base ; umbilicated, the umbilicus 

 within deep and cylindrical, about '8 mm. diam., at the last whorl 

 rapidly enlarging, 2'3 mm. diam., or contained about five times in 

 the diameter of the shell, conspicuously grooved inside. Surface 

 very closely and regularly rib-striate, moderately shining. Light 

 yellow or buff in color. Whorls 5£, closely coiled, slowly widening, 

 rather convex, having an oblique impression behind the outer, and 

 an excavation behind the basal lip. Suture well impressed, descend- 

 ing only a trifle at the aperture. 



Aperture quite oblique, roundly lunate, the lip forming two-thirds 

 of a circle, rather narrowly reflexed ; outer lip bearing an inwardly 

 projecting pointed tooth ; basal lip with a slightly keeled face along 




l(j PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



its outer half, the inner part bearing a rather long, low, callous 

 tooth with the summit a trifle flanged outwardly. Deep within the 

 aperture a lobe-like tooth may be seen on the columella. Parietal 

 tooth small, V-shaped, the outer ridge of the V extremely short. 



Alt. 6, greater diam. Ill, lesser 101 mm. 



The specimens serving as types were collected some years ago 

 (about 1880) by Dr. Horatio C. Wood in western Texas, either in 

 the " Great Bend " of the Rio Grande or near El Paso, exact 

 locality not noted. 



The species is somewhat allied to P. plagioglossa, having about 

 the same general contour and agreeing in the proportions of the 

 parietal lamella ; but the armature of the basal lip is conspicuously 

 different, and there is a deep-seated lamella on the columella, such 

 as well developed examples of P. Mooreana show, but apparently 

 united by a low ridge with the inner end of the basal tooth. This 

 lamella corresponds to the groove within the umbilicus, and is not 

 visible in the drawings. 

 P. matermontana n. »\>. I'!. III. figs, in, n, 12. 



Shell depressed, with low, convex spire, rounded periphery and 

 convex base; umbilicated, the axial perforation small and deep, at 

 the last whorl rapidly enlarging to about one-fifth the diameter of 

 shell. Surface shining, faintly wrinkled by growth-lines and show- 

 ing under the lens superficial close spirals in some places; light 

 horn colored. Whorls f>-j, quite convex, the inner slowly increas- 

 ing, narrow, the last decidedly wider, notably convex above, with 

 the periphery above the middle ; deeply ami narrowly constricted 

 behind the lip. Suture well impressed, abruptly deflexed in front. 



Aperture quite oblique, rounded oval, the lip forming over two- 

 thirds of the circumference ; outer lip broadly expanded, flaring. 

 bearing a concave lamella with a denticle at the lower end on it< 

 inner edge; basal lip reflexed, with a compressed, slightly entering 

 tooth. Parietal callus a translucent film, bearing a V-shaped lam- 

 ella not connected with the peristome, the outer branch of the V 

 very short. 



Alt. 5"2, greater diam. 9*5, lesser 8 mm. 



Colima, Sierra Madre Mts., Mexico. 



Besides the types from above locality, there is one specimen in 

 the collection of the Academy labelled " Mexico" differing in size, 

 alt. 6'1, greater diam. 11 mm., and haying 6 whorls. It agrees in 

 all other characters and is doubtless the same specifically. Two 

 other specimens labelled "Texas" are altogether like the types. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



P. matermontana is like texasiana in the notch between the two 

 lip-teeth, but the outer tooth is a more pronounced and shorter 

 lamella, the parietal " V " is less developed, and the upper surface 

 is not costulate. The parietal lamella is much alike in matermon- 

 tana and latispira, the outer branch being much less developed than 

 in Eichardsoui, ventrosula or bicruris. The umbilicus is like that of 

 latispira, being slightly more ample than in texasiana, and with 

 the central well, or perforation decidedly larger. 



This species and the three following have nearly the same 

 form of aperture teeth and are very similar to other species group- 

 ing immediately around P. ventrosula in this respect. The compar- 

 ative width of umbilicus, the sculpture, and to a less extent, the 

 contour, differ in the several forms. The inverted T shaped tooth 

 upon the outer lip, formed by a lamella parallel to the lip-edge with 

 a shorter one at its lower end, transverse to it, is characteristic of 

 the group. 

 P. Ponsonbyi n. sp. PI. II, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell globose-depressed, with low conoid-convex spire, rounded 

 periphery and convex base. Umbilicus one-sixth the diameter of 

 shell, with flattened, nearly vertical walls, narrowing to a perfora- 

 tion beyond the last whorl. Surface shining, smooth except for 

 extremely faint growth-wrinkles ; corneous-brown, with a chestnut- 

 brown super-peripheral band on the body-whorl, appearing on the 

 spire as a narrow sutural margination. Whorls 5A, convex, slowly 

 widening, the last decidedly wider, tumid on the latter half of the 

 base, deeply and narrowly constricted behind the outer and basal 

 lips. Suture well and evenly impressed, abruptly and deeply 

 deflexed in front. 



Aperture very oblique, rounded-oval, the lip forming three-fourths 

 of the circumference. Outer lip broadly flaring, its inner edge bear- 

 ing a short concave lamella, with a projecting compressed tooth at 

 its lower end ; basal lip reflexed, with a similar compressed tooth. 

 Parietal wall bearing a short, erect, straight lamina parallel with 

 the basal lip, and having a very short V-branch at the outer end ; 

 the inner termination not extending to the columella insertion. 



Alt. 5, greatest diam. 8*2, lesser 7'2 mm. 



Types from Mexico, exact locality not known, in the collections 

 of John Ponsonby and the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philad. 



Like ventrosula and Riehardsoni in the teeth of the lip, but more 

 globose than either, parietal tooth with only a trace of the outer 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



branch of the V, base more tumid, and umbilicus of last whorl more 

 well-like. 



P. euglypta n. sp. PI. II, figs. 7, 8, 9. 



Shell obese, with low conic spire, rounded-angular periphery 

 near the top of last whorl, sloping outer wall and convex, tumid 

 base. Umbilicated, a central perforation expanding at last whorl 

 to form an umbilicus about one-sixth the diam. of shell, and with 

 the wall rising almost vertically from its suture. Surface of outer 

 lh whorls sculptured with sharp, strong and regular thread-like sig- 

 moid riblets, subobsolete and more numerous by intercalation in the 

 immediate vicinity of the umbilicus ; the inner whorls of spire 

 smooth. Whorls 4i-4f, the inner slowly increasing, last whorl 

 much wider, very deeply constricted and excavated behind the outer 

 and basal lips. Suture impressed, deeply descending in front. 



Aperture extremely oblique, transversely oval, the lip forming 

 three-fourths of the circumference, upper and basal margins sub- 

 parallel. Outer lip broadly flaring, with a short lamella on its 

 inner edge, formed of a compressed, slightly entering portion joined 

 T-like to a short lamella parallel to the inner lip-edge; basal lip 

 reflexed, bearing a compressed, entering tooth similar to the lower 

 portion of the T on outer lip. Parietal tooth like a narrow, slanting 

 V, the two branches united with the ends of the lip. 



Alt. 5*3, greater diam. 9'5, lesser 8 2 mill. 



Alt. 4o, greater diam. 7'5, lesser i'>'4 mill. 



Cinaloa (larger form) and Mazatlan (smaller fori 



A member of the P. ventrosula group, distinguished from ventro- 

 sula, Hindsi, Riehardsoni and kicruria by the sharp rib- 



striation of the last 1 j whorls. 



P. albicostulata n. sp. PI. II. figs. I. 



Shell obese, with convex spire, periphery much above middle of 

 body-whorl, and tumid base. Umbilicated, the umbilicus nai 

 and deep, with vertical walls, not much enlarging at last whorl, 

 where it measures about one-ninth the diameter of the shell ; within 

 the umbilicus the last whorl has a deep spiral furrow, obliquely 

 passing into the groove behind the basal lip. Surface shining, the 

 latter two whorls sculptured with coarse whitish riblets with con 

 brown spaces ; inner whorls nearly smooth, corneous brown. Whorla 

 5^, weakly convex, the last very obtusely angular at its origin, 

 becoming rounded and tumid on the latter half, deeply and narrowly 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



constricted behind the outer and basal lips. Suture slightly im- 

 pressed, rather abruptly and deeply deflexed in front. 



Aperture oblique, oblong, the upper and basal margins subparal- 

 lel ; outer lip reflexed, its inner edge bearing a concave lamina 

 ending below in a denticle ; basal lip reflexed, impinging on the 

 umbilicus, with a compressed tooth separated from the lamella on 

 outer lip by a deep squarish sinus, a gentle swelling to the left of it. 

 Parietal wall glazed with a translucent film, and bearing a long V- 

 shaped tooth, the outer branch of which is short and not connected 

 with the upper insertion of outer lip. 



Alt. 5*5, greatest diam. 8"5, lesser 7*5 mm. 



Type in collection of Mr. John Ponsonby of London. It is said 

 to be from Mexico, and has the appearance of a northern Mexican 

 shell. 



The strong, whitish rib-stri?e, narrow and nearly regular umbilicus 

 with spiral groove within on the last whorl, and the aperture much 

 as in euglypta, Richardsoni and ventrosula, are a combination of 

 characters amply sufficient to distinguish this species from other 

 forms now known ; and while I am opposed on principle to the 

 description of species without exact locality record, it seems best in 

 some cases to depart from this salutary rule. I do not think any one 

 will have difficulty in recognizing the species, as no other Polygyra 

 having the apertural characters of this one, presents a similar um- 

 bilicus or sculpture. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES II and III. 



Polygyra Ponsonbyi n. sp., seen from below. 

 Polygyra Ponsonbyi n. sp., anterior view. 

 Polygyra Ponsonbyi n. sp., aperture, the plane of peri- 

 stome at a right angle to line of vision. 

 Polygyra albicostulata n. sp., from below. 

 Polygyra albicostulata n. sp., anterior view. 

 Polygyra albicostulata n. sp., aperture, the plane of peri- 

 stome at a right angle to line of vision. 

 Fig. 7. Polygyra euglypta n. sp., aperture, the plane of peristome 



at right angle to line of vision. 

 Fig. 8. Polygyra euglypta n. sp., seen from below. 

 Fig. 9. Polygyra euglypta n. sp., anterior view. 

 Fig. 10. Polygyra matermontana n. sp., anterior view. 

 Fig. 11. Polygyra matermontana n. sp., seen from above. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Fig. 12. Polygyra matermontana n. sp., seen from below. 



Fig. 13. Polygyra latispira n. sp., anterior view. 



Fig. 14. Polygyra latispira n. sp., seen from below. 



Fig. 15. Polygyra latispira n. sp., seen from above. 



Fig. 16. Polygyra latispira n. sp., aperture, the plane of peristome 

 at a right angle to line of* vision. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSKS. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Marginella Veliei n. sp. 



Shell oblong, the body-whorl tapering (somewhat Conus-like) from 

 the rounded shoulder to the base, spire conic. Surface brilliant, 

 enamelled over the sutures and throughout, pale 

 olivaceous-buff, slightly bluish around the middle of 

 body-whorl, the outer lip white. Whorls about 5, 

 nearly flat, the last convex above, rather flattened 

 in the middle. Aperture about four-fifths the length 

 of shell, its upper half narrow, lower half about 

 twice as wide ; pale buff inside ; outer lip slightly re- 

 tracted at the two ends, smooth within, thickened by 

 a moderate white callus outside, which is not pro- 

 M. Velieiy2. duced upward to the preceding suture. Columella 

 bearing four plaits, the lower three subequal, upper 

 one slightly smaller and more deeply inserted. 

 Alt. 15, diam. 7*1 ; alt. of aperture 12 mm. 

 Alt. 14*6, diam. 7'5; alt. of aperture 11*8 mm. 

 Boca Ciega Bay, Florida (Dr. J. W. Velie!). 

 This species resembles M. Hindsi Petit in outline, but the callous 

 rib of the outer lip is not continued upward as in that species. It 

 is notable for the rather slender and tapering form of the body- 

 whorl and slight inward bend of the outer lip. It is somewhat re- 

 markable that so large a Marginella as this has until now escaped 

 notice on our Florida coast. 



Siphonalia semiplicata n. sp. 



Shell fusiform, tapering about an equal distance above and below, 

 solid and strong, gray with some indistinct brownish patches. Whorls 

 about 8, nucleus smooth (partly lacking by erosion) ; 5? later 

 whorls sculptured with cord-like spirals about equal to their inter- 

 vals in width, about 11 in number on penultimate and three preced- 

 ing whorls; last 1? whorls having short, sometimes indistinct, sub- 

 vertical waves at the shoulder, the preceding whorls merely convex, 

 with no vertical folds. Last whorl contracted and produced at base 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



as usual, the siphon nearly straight, a little recurved. Aperture 

 livid brown within, contained T8 times in length of shell; outer lip 

 regularly arched, multilirate within, the lirse extending to within 

 about I? mm. of lip-edge; columella concave above, straight, verti- 

 cal and more heavily calloused in the middle, slanting to the left 

 below. Alt. 47, diam. 24 mm. 



Yokohama, Japan. 



Allied to S. fusoides, fuscolineata, etc., but in this species the ver- 

 tical waves of the shoulder are entirely absent on the spire ; the 

 canal is nearly straight. 



In this connection it may be well to call attention to the fact, 

 kindly communicated to me by Mr. J. Cosmo Melvill, that Siphon- 

 alia Steamsii Pilsbry is identical with S. pseudobuccinum Melv. and 

 S. hyperodon Pils. is the same as 8. Mikado Melv. Mr. Melvill's 

 names were proposed in the Journal of Conchology (Leeds), V, p. 348. 



Ischnochiton aspidaulax n. sp. 



Shell oblong, slightly narrower in front, moderately elevated, 

 carinated, the side slopes nearly straight. Surface 6omewhat shin- 

 ing, and (a) dark olive at the sides, a light olive band dappled with 

 darker spots along the ridge, or (b) light dull bluish dappled with 

 brown, and with some snow-white patches on valves ii, iii, v and vi ; 

 yellowish at the apices of valves. 



Median valves not beaked, the sutures concave. Lateral areas 

 well defined, but only a trifle raised, sculptured with numerous dis- 

 tinct, unequal radial grooves, not extending to the apex, aud parted by 

 unequal spaces, densely sculptured with oblique or Y-shaped scale' 

 like granules, the apices of the Vs directed toward the beaks. Central 

 areas very densely and minutely sculptured with longitudinal irreg- 

 ular wrinkles, somewhat converging, becoming finer toward the 

 ridge, coarser in front of the diagonal line. Posterior valve with 

 the mucro slightly projecting, somewhat in front of the middle, pos- 

 terior slope somewhat concave. 



Interior bluish, with olive stains behind the valve-callus. Sinus 

 rather narrow, straight and smooth, angular at the sides. Valve i 

 with 10, valves ii to vii with 1-1, valve viii with 10 slits. Teeth 

 rather long, sharp and smooth. Eaves narrow, deeply grooved 

 above the teeth. 



Girdle covered with compactly, irregularly imbricated - 

 scales, very weakly striated, and measuring '3 to '25 mm. in width ; 

 each scale olive-blackish with a broad outer border of white. In a 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



general view, the girdle appears light olive with an ill-defined dusky 

 bar opposite each valve. 



Length 18, breadth 9 mm. (exclusive of girdle). Angle of di- 

 vergence 119°. 



Panamic region, exact locality not known. 



Specimens of this elaborately sculptured Ischnochiton were re- 

 ceived from Mr. W. J. Raymond some years ago. Mr. E. R. Sykes, 

 of London, has kindly compared it with the type of/, dispar Sowb., 

 and informs me that it is quite distinct, confirming the opinion I 

 had already formed from a study of the description and figures of 

 that species. From other West American species it is readily dis- 

 tinguished by the peculiar sculpture, dorsal keel and the coloration 

 of the girdle scales. 

 Sagda (?) Gabbi n. sp. 



Shell depressed, with low, conoid-convex spire, round periphery 

 and somewhat flattened, convex base, rather deeply indented around 

 the minute umbilical perforation ; solid though rather thin ; whitish 

 corneous or faintly buff"; the surface rather dull though shining, 

 smooth except for irregular, very faint growth-marks. Whorls 

 about 5i, convex, slowly widening, the last decidedly wider, not 

 descending in front. Suture impressed and narrowly translucent- 

 margined below. Aperture subvertical, a little oblique, lunate ; 

 peristome evenly curved, sharp-edged, the columellar margin lined 

 with white callus inside, and reflexed in the vicinity of the umbilical 

 perforation, nearly concealing it. 



Alt. 7, greater diam. 11, lesser diam. 10 ram. (Type). 



Alt. 8, greater diam. 12, lesser diam. 10"8 mm. (specimen in Pon- 

 sonby Coll.). 



San Domingo (W. M. Gabb !). 



Compared with Helix effusa Pfr. (Monographia, V, p. 105, Tryon, 

 Manual II, p. 163), of which part of the original lot collected by 

 Smith are before me, this species is more solid, with smaller perfor- 

 ation, smoother surface and fewer, more rapidly widening whorls ; 

 but it is especially distinguished by the different form of the peris- 

 tome. In effusa the basal lip (in a ventral view of the shell) is seen 

 to bend forward in a broad convex lobe, the outer point of the curve 

 extending as far forward as the insertion of the outer lip ; and upon 

 the base the usual direction of the arcuate growth-lines is reversed. 

 In the new species, while there is a slight bend, no such effuse con- 

 dition of the basal lip is developed. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



This species is described from four specimens collected by Gabb 

 (the types), and one in the collection of Mr. John Ponsonby, of 

 London. The latter is slightly larger, and, at first glance, seems to 

 have the aperture more vertical, but this is caused by the breaking 

 away of the upper portion of the lip-edge. 



The columellar callus becomes a little heavier, slightly convex, 

 toward the lower end of columella. Upon breaking a specimen a 

 minute embryonic shell was found. The species is therefore prob- 

 ably viviparous, as I have shown some other species of Thysanophora 

 and Sagda to be. The callous lining of the interior in the columellar 

 region is conspicuous in this species but absent in H. effusa Pfr. 

 Both species seem to me referable to Sagda rather than to Thysano- 

 phora; but the two genera are intimately allied. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



THE BEES OF THE GENUS PERDITA F. Smith. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



In attempting to teach entomology to the students of the New 

 Mexico Agricultural College, the difficulty was early felt, that there 

 existed no work treating in an adequate manner of any group of 

 insects obtainable in the vicinity. While it was possible to indicate 

 the outlines of the subject without any very profound knowledge of 

 the insects which were collected and studied, it appeared to the writer 

 that this superficial method of work could not lead to the best 

 results. It is quite true that an ordinary student has not time to 

 master even the families of insects; but the writer has long felt 

 persuaded that the plan of teaching the elements without entering 

 into detail is essentially a vicious one, calculated in extreme cases, 

 even to convey a totally false impression of the true lessons of 

 biology. 



In the first place, the main purpose of biological study in educa- 

 tion is not so much to load the mind with information, as to prompt 

 a habit of observation and deduction. Owing to the unfortunate 

 trend of the present educational system, the students almost inva- 

 riably come to the entomology class prepared to learn by heart any 

 lessons that may be assigned to them, but very ill-prepared to 

 notice what has not been actually pointed out. It is, perhaps, not 

 an exaggeration to say that the average junior or senior student in a 

 college possesses less inclination and ability to notice and compare 

 than a child of from five to ten years of age. 



The entomological studies, if successful, should tend to break 

 down this acquired mental habit, and restore in some measure the 

 inquisitiveness of childhood. Therefore, nothing can be worse than 

 limiting the student's knowledge by what may be written in a text- 

 book, and checking his budding interest in every direction by " I 

 don't know," with the implication that it is no use trying to find 

 out. The idea that some facts are to be regarded by the student, 

 and all others ignored, is an entire perversion of the proper spirit of 

 biological inquiry. 



3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Another consideration is, that after all the cell, the individual 

 and the species are the three natural units in biology, without a just 

 conception of which, all reasoning must be futile. The orders, fami- 

 lies, genera and other higher groups do not stand at all on the same 

 plane, being essentially artificial arrangements for convenience in 

 classification. Consequently a student who might be thoroughly 

 acquainted with the higher groups and ignorant of species, would 

 be very little prepared to form just conceptions of the phenomena 

 of life. 



When these ideas dawned upon the writer, he was somewhat dis- 

 concerted to reflect that in the whole range of zoology he possessed 

 an intimate acquaintance with only two series, the slugs in Mollusca 

 and the Coccidse in Insecta. Of the former, which might have been 

 used in zoological studies, there is but one species in New Mexico, 

 and that not found in the neighborhood of the college ; of the lat- 

 ter, the species are more numerous, but very unsuited for the pur- 

 pose required, since they are exceptions to almost every ordinary 

 entomological rule. 



It is perfectly true, that there already exist many very admirable 

 monographs of North American insects of different groups ; but 

 there are two reasons why even the best of these do not entirely 

 serve our purpose. The first is, that comparatively little collecting 

 has been done in southern New Mexico, so that many of our very 

 common species are even unknown to science, and, therefore, not to 

 be found in the monographs ; the second, that very few of the pub- 

 lished writings contain anything like a careful account of the habitfl 

 of the species. One of the very first lessons that the student has to 

 learn is that structure is as intimately related to environment, as 

 lock to key, and a work which practically ignores one side of this 

 question cannot be entirely satisfactory. 



The nearest approximation to what is wanted is found among the 

 higher lepidoptera, which are illustrated by such admirable works 

 as those of Scudder and W. H. Edwards. Yet these insects are not 

 very easily studied by a beginner, except in a superficial way, nor is 

 their classification yet upon a perfectly sound basis. So finally, it 

 was concluded to take up the bees and endeavor to work them up 

 in such a manner that they might be used as desired. They are 

 good typical insects, their principal structural characters are easily 

 observed, their habits are most interesting, and they abound in New 

 Mexico. Moreover, the bee-studies go very nicely hand-in-haud 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



with flower-studies undertaken in botany, the relations between bees 

 and flowers being among the most fascinating phenomena in natural 

 history. 



The present essay on Perdita is the first step toward the realiza- 

 tion of the above mentioned ideal. Imperfect as it undoubtedly is, 

 it has grown like a mushroom under the hands of the writer ; so 

 that the probability of finishing the whole series of bee-genera seems 

 remote indeed, if each is to increase in a similar fashion. Seventeen 

 North American species of Perdita were known before the writer 

 began to study them ; of these, two are not considered valid, but 55 

 have been added, bringing the list up to seventy ! Thus, in number 

 of species described, Perdita becomes at a bound the largest of North 

 American bee genera. 



MATERIAL EXAMINED. 



By far the greater part of the material studied has been collected 

 by the writer in New Mexico. With great kindness, Mr. W. J. Fox 

 loaned a series of specimens containing his Lower Californian types, 

 and all the species of Cresson except cephalotes, as well as several 

 herein described as new. In various other ways, such as comparing 

 types, Mr. Fox has throughout the whole investigation given 

 invaluable assistance. Mr. C. F. Baker was so good as to send me 

 the specimens he and his wife had collected in Colorado, which 

 included some new forms. Mr. C. Robertson has given some 

 very valuable information regarding the habits of the two eastern 

 species. Some interesting species have been found by students of 

 the college, Miss Mae Gilmore, Miss J. E. Gasad, Mr. Alfred Holt 

 and Mr. C. Rhodes, as duly indicated below. My botanical col- 

 league, Professor Wooton, found one new species. 



The writer has seen all the species treated of, except cephalotes, 

 halictulus and bicolor. Of the 70 species, 26 are known in both 

 sexes, 26 only in the £ , 18 only in the $ . 23 are at present only 

 known from uniques. The flower-visiting habits of 50 species are 

 known. The nesting habits are as yet unknown. 



CHARACTERS USED. 



It is hoped that those who may have occasion hereafter to describe 

 species of Perdita will read this section, as a study of the published 

 descriptions shows that some important characters are almost always 

 omitted. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The coloration of the head and thorax is black, green or blue ; 

 frequently the parts are not colored alike, the metathorax especially 

 being usually bluer than the mesothorax and scutellum. The 

 metallic color does not extend on to the abdomen, except to a slight 

 extent in interrupta. The sculpture of the metallic portions differs, 

 and a good character is found in the smoothness or otherwise of the 

 mesothorax ; in some it is very smooth and shining, in others gran- 

 ular or striatulate and comparatively dull. The dulness or other- 

 wise of the front, and the punctation of the area close to the ocelli, 

 may also be used. 



The pale markings may be absent; when developed they are 

 from pure white to deep yellow, never red, though the yellow of 

 many males may be reddened by cyanide. The reddest color ob- 

 served is in the bright orange-rufous of the latter end of the abdomen 

 in crotonis, and the orange-rufous legs of foxi. The abdomen, as in 

 latior, may be bright ferruginous. These colors are entirely differ- 

 ent from the scarlet induced by cyanide. In some species which 

 live on yellow flowers (luteola, beata, larrece) the whole body-color 

 is deep yellow, the dark markings being reduced to a minimum. 

 No species is known similarly white, nor is any species all rufous 

 like some forms of Nomada. 



The head may be comparatively small, round, or broader than 

 long or longer than broad ; in some species it is very large and sub- 

 quadrate. The males may or may not have a conspicuous tooth or 

 spire on the cheeks beneath ; this character appears to be a valid 

 specific one, but appears in species which are not closely allied, (e. 

 g., larrece and pulchrior), while it distinguishes certain forma from 

 their closest allies, as pulchrior from pallidior, the latter having un- 

 armed cheeks. It is to be observed that in the Mutillid genus 

 Spharophthalma a similar state of affairs occur?, only it is the 

 females that possess the armed cheeks. Thus S. montivaga is ex- 

 tremely like 8. megacantha, but lacks the spine on the cheeks. S. 

 toumeyi also differs from its allies by its spinose head. The charac- 

 ter is, therefore, one of those which has been termed " kaleido- 

 scopic." 



The mandibles may be bifid at the tip (latior, texana), or may be 

 notched within (sphtvralcecc 9) or even present a distinct tooth on 

 the inner side (ceneifrous). They are, however, usually simple, and 

 more slender in the males. In the females of the albipennis group 

 they are very stout and strongly elbowed, quite different from the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



males. There is also a marked sexual difference in the mandibles 

 of ventral is. The tongue differs in length and in the degree of 

 development of the hairs. As will be seen below, the tongue has on 

 two or three occasions proved useful in distinguishing allied forms 

 (as affinis and seneeionis), but it has not been studied throughout 

 the series. In one instance, a useful distinction was found in the 

 relative lengths of the joints of the maxillary palpi. 



The form of the clypeus differs very much both between the spe- 

 cies and the sexes of the same species (e. g., ventralis). For conven- 

 ience I have compared the shapes noted to the outlines of different 

 kinds of hats. 



The degrees of hairiness of the face and cheeks, as also of the 

 thorax (especially of the mesothorax) offer useful characters. The 

 hairs are usually white, but may in part be grayish or brownish, or 

 even, in a yellow species (beata), yellow. They are very rarely 

 (albovittata) dense enough on the face to obscure the markings. 



The antenna? present different grades of color (usually paler be- 

 neath) from yellow and orange to black. In the albipennis group 

 the color of the flagellum has served to distinguish the males of 

 allied forms. 



The face markings at first seem complicated and hard to describe, 

 but are easily reduced to a simple system. The face may be wholly 

 dark, but if the pale marks are much reduced they are generally 

 seen to linger last upon the clypeus. An exception to this is found 

 however in semiecerulea, with its shining yellow mark on each side 

 of a perfectly dark clypeus. The clypeus may be wholly light, 

 usually retaining a black dot on each side near the margin. The 

 clypeal dark markings appear frequently in the form of two longi- 

 tudinal black bars, as in numerata. 



The lateral light markings of the face are commonly triangular, 

 the inner angle being about opposite the dot on the clypeus, and the 

 upper angle usually on a level with the antennal socket on the 

 orbital margin. Sometimes the lateral mark extends up along the 

 margin of the orbit much further; and it may terminate variously, 

 being either pointed or truncate. The shapes of the lateral face 

 marks afford excellent specific characters. 



Above the clypeus, between its upper border and the level of the 

 antennae, is the supraclypeal mark, which differs very much in its 

 degree of development, and even in its shape in some allied species. 

 It may be produced upward in the median line to an enlarged yel- 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



low mark on the front, the frontal mark, but this is not very com- 

 mon. 



Finally, just below each antenna may be a small subtriangular 

 mark, which I have called the dog-ear mark, because of its resem- 

 blance to the ear of a hound, first observed in the $ form described 

 as canina. 



In the males the face is frequently all yellow or white up to the level 

 of theantennse; and then good characters are found in the degree of its 

 further upward extension, and in the form of its upper limit. 



The face markings are nearly always conspicuously different in 

 the sexes, but not so in albovittata and the albipennis group, nor in 

 luteola, nor the texana group. 



The pale markings of the thorax are confined to different degrees 

 of yellow on the prothorax, often affording good characters, and 

 occasional very characteristic yellow patches on the pleura, except 

 in mexicanorum, which has a yellow postscutellum, and hdeiceps, 

 which has a little yellow on mesothorax and scutellum. Two spe- 

 cies, punctosignata and cephalotes, have the thorax yellow with black 

 markings; marcialis has it yellow with green markings, the meso- 

 thorax being green with yellow lateral margins. 



The wings may be simply hyaline or milky-hyaline, or slightly 

 smoky; never really dark and never spotted or banded. The 

 nervures and stigma may he dark brown, light brown, yellowish or 

 colorless; the stigma is usually hyaline centrally. In the texana 

 group the stigma is hardly developed. 



Very good characters are found in the venation. The marginal 

 cell differs greatly in size and length, but I never saw one so 

 long as to suggest the condition of Calliopsis. It may be obliquely 

 or squarely truncate. It may have the portion below the stigma 

 (substigmatal) longer than that beyond ( poststigmatal), but usually 

 they are about equal or the latter is longer. There are but two sub- 

 marginal cells ; and the shape of the second, whether triangular or 

 how much narrowed to the marginal, should in each case be noted. 

 The so-called second submarginal is morphologically the third, the 

 true second of genera with three submarginals being absent. On 

 one side of the type 9 of obscurata, the true second submarginal 

 actually appears, small, triangular and petiolate, much as in the 

 Larrid genus Plenoculus. 



The third discoidal cell may be very weak or even entirely want- 

 ing, according to the development of the second recurrent nervure. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



The legs may be dark or yellow, or variously marked with these 

 colors, and the proportions of dark and light, though variable, 

 afford good characters within reasonable limits. The anterior tibia? 

 are usually yellow in front at least. 



The abdomen differs somewhat in shape, and maybe either wholly 

 dark or variously banded or spotted. In every case it should be 

 carefully described, and the color of the ventral surface should also 

 be mentioned. 



The $ genitalia differ in one or two species I have examined, but 

 I have not studied them sufficiently to be able to introduce them 

 into the classification. 



In addition to the above structural and colorational characters, 

 too much stress cannot be laid on the importance of noting the 

 exact localities and the flowers visited. Without the assistance 

 derived from such information, it would have been impossible to 

 unravel the mentzelice series, or satisfactorily arrange the forms 

 allied to affinis. Further, facts of this kind are invaluable in the 

 difficult task of correctly associating the sexes. 



The time of flight should also be carefully noted. Some species 

 are vernal, others (the great majority) fly in late summer and 

 autumn. 



GEOGRAPHICAL AND VERTICAL DISTRIBUTION. 



The species of Perdita are characteristic of the arid region of 

 North America. Of the 70 species, 49 are found in New Mexico, 

 and of these, no less than 34 are in the Mesilla Valley, in the Middle 

 Sonoran (= lower part of Upper Sonoran) zone, at 3,800 feet. 

 Ascending the Valley of the Rio Grande, four species were taken 

 at San Marcial, one at Socorro and nine at Albuquerque, but at none 

 of these places was more than a few day's collecting done. One 

 species was found at San Augustine, on the east side of the Organ 

 Mountains, but has since been observed in the Mesilla Valley. 

 There can be no doubt that Perdita abounds throughout the Upper 

 Sonoran zone in New Mexico. 



At Santa Fe, 7,000 feet, in the transition zone of New Mexico, a 

 good deal of collecting was done in two seasons, but the species of 

 Perdita do not appear to be so numerous as in the Upper Sonoran. 

 Only seven species were taken, although one or two were very 

 numerous in individuals. In the mid-alpine zone no species were 

 seen, either in New Mexico or in the three years residence in Colo- 

 rado. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



In Colorado, species of Perdita have been found at La Junta, 

 Fort Collins, Estes Park and Glenwood Springs. On August 12, 

 1887, I found a species at Cottonwood Creek, Pleasant Valley, Fre- 

 mont County, Colorado ; it was sent to Mr. Ashmead, but the species 

 was not determined. In my note-book I recorded that it was 3 $ mm. 

 long, head black, thorax gray, abdomen red-brown ; surely it was a 

 new species, different from any herein described. A few species of 

 Perdita have been found in other parts of the west — three in Lower 

 California, three in California, three in Nevada. Two are known 

 from Texas, one from the State of Chihuahua, Mexico. Two 

 vaguely from Mexico. 



In the Eastern States, Perdita is represented by only two species, 

 octomaculata of the northern region, from Illinois to New Hamp- 

 shire ; and obscarata in the south, Georgia and Florida. One of 

 the Rocky Mountain species, albipennis, extends northeastward to 

 South Dakota. 



As regards vertical distribution, one species, spJueralcece, extends 

 from the Mesilla Valley to Santa Fe, but the Santa Fe form is an 

 easily distinguishable race. P. lepachidis extends unaltered from 

 Socorro to Santa Fe ; and zebrata and chamcesarachce extend from 

 Albuquerque to Santa Fe. P. austini and bigelovia extend from 

 the Mesilla Valley to Albuquerque. 



THE FLOWERS VISITED. 



It may be laid down as a general rule that each species of Perdita 

 visits normally but one species of flower, but occasional speci- 

 mens may be found on flowers to which they do not normally belong. 

 The exceptions to this rule are found in P. octomaculata visiting 

 Solidago, Coreopsis and Aster; P. cladothricis visiting various 

 Composite as well as Cladothrix ; P. pectid is visiting Pectis, Tribulus 

 and Wedelia; P. fallax visiting Bigelovia, Yerbesina and Pectis: 

 P. phymatce visiting Bigelovia and Gutierrez'ut : and P. semicrocea 

 visiting Solidago, Bigelovia and Gutierrezia. 



In the case of several uniques, it is not certain that they normally 

 belong to the flowers on which they were found. Thus a single P. 

 pitlchrior was found on Bigelovia at Las Cruces, and it would have 

 gone in as a Bigelovia species but for its previous discovery on 

 Mentzelia at Albuquerque. In the Mesilla Valley, toward and at 

 the base of the Organ Mountains, are many species of flowers which 

 should by all analogy have their species of Perdita. But theoppor- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



tunity has not offered to make excursions to determine this at the 

 right season, and we can only surmise that some of the uniques 

 taken on Verbesina, Bigelovia, etc., will be hereafter found abun- 

 dantly attached to some other plant in the neighborhood. 



The flowers visited are cited in their systematic order, following 

 the arrangement of Engler and Prantl, as recently adopted in the 

 A. A. A. S5. list. The number of known Perdita flowers is 25, of 

 which 13, more than half, are Composite. Twelve species of flow- 

 ers have furnished more than one Perdita species, the greatest num- 

 ber (12) being from Bigelovia ivrightii. 



It is to be explained in reference to the names used for the flow- 

 ers, that the writer is in favor of using the earliest generic name in 

 every case, when not preoccupied by a valid homonym ; and also 

 the earliest specific name when not preoccupied by a valid homonym 

 in the same genus. But he is entirely opposed to the practice of 

 displacing names because antedated by synonyms, which are not 

 and never were deserving of recognition ; and he does not consider 

 a varietal name invalid because previously used for a different spe- 

 cies, or a variety of a different species, in the same genus. He thus 

 objects to the substitution of Chonclrophora for Bigelovia (or Bige- 

 lorvia), or of Covillea for Larrea. Likewise of var. jnlosus for var. 

 villosus of Aster ericoides. 



SALICACE^. 



(1). Salix. The willow-frequenting bees at Las Cruces in May 

 are Perdita salicis, P. numerata, Aridrena salicinella Ckll., 

 Andrena n. sp., Halidus sp., and Prosopis sp. P. salicis 

 abounds, but of numerata only one was taken. 



AMARANTHACEJE. 



(2). Cladothrix cryptantha S.Watson. P. cladothricis abounds 

 on this ; it was rather surprising to find so simple a flower so 

 abundantly visited by a particular species of bee. The genus 

 Cladothrix has cited in the Index Kewensis only two species, 

 both from Western North America. 



NYCTAGINACE^l. 



(3). Wedelia incarnata (L.) Kuntze. Visited by P. peetidis. 

 The Boerhaavia, common at Las Cruces, is not visited by Per- 

 dita; while the large purple mirabilis is, of course, a moth 

 flower, and is visited by Deilephila lineata. 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



CAPPARIDACEJE. 



(4). Cleome serrulata Pursh. This is not found growing wild 

 at La3 Cruces, but it abounds from Albuquerque to Santa Fe 

 and northward into Colorado, being visited in great numbers 

 by Perdita zebrata. There is a not uncommon white-flowered 

 form ( C. albiflora) which I observed at \Yatrous, X. M., and 

 other places. 



While P. zebrata is the only Perdita of the Cleome, it has to 

 compete with numerous bees of other genera. At Santa Fe, 

 on August 2d, I noted that Nomia punctata was in full force on 

 the Cleome, its hind legs loaded with the green pollen. Other 

 Cleome bees at Santa Fe are Melecta miranda, Anth.oph.ora, 

 Megachile, Melissodes and Bombus. At Albuquerque a Cal- 

 liopsis is common on the Cleome ; and I saw at this locality 

 on August 16th, a humming-bird visiting it. 



LEGUMINOSiE. 



(5). Prosopis julifeora var. glaxdulosa (Torrey). The mes- 

 quite furnishes Perdita exclamans and P. punctosignata. Mr. 

 Alfred Holt has also taken an Anthidium on mesquite at Las 

 Cruces. 



It will be noted that the generic name of this plant is the 

 same as that of a genus of bees. This inconvenience might be 

 avoided by spelling the bee-genus Prosapis, as has already 

 been done by Mr. Ashmead (Hym. Colo., p. 31). The botan- 

 ical genus has priority. The mesquite extends in modified 

 form to sea-level in the neotropical region; it is, in fact, essen- 

 tially a neotropical type. 



ZYGOPHYLLACE^l. 



(6). Tribulus maximus L. Visited by P. pectidis. The plant 



cannot be other than maximus, but it does not agree in detail 

 with published descriptions. I have found the plant (though 

 not the bee) as far north as La Junta, Colorado. 



(7). Larrea divaricata var. tridentata (DC). At San Mar- 

 cial were found on this P. mareialis, P. larrea, P. larrearum 

 and P. semicverulea. The P. larrea* is colored yellow like the 

 flowers of the plant. The genus Larrea consists of four or 

 five species, confined to the Mexican region and the Argen- 

 tine Republic. Our species is a variety of one of the Argen- 

 tine ones. 



EUPHORBIACE2E. 



(8). Crotox texexsis (Klotzch) Muell. Arg. At Albuquerque 

 I found numbers of P. crotonis on this. The same plant is 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



common at Santa Fe, but yields no Perdita. The constancy 

 of Perdita spp. to their proper flowers was well illustrated at 

 Albuquerque, where on the Croton was only P. crotonis, while 

 on the Cleome only 8 paces distant was only P. zebrata. At 

 Las Cruces, Croton neomexicanus is common, but I found on 

 it no Perdita, or even bees, only Larridse and especially Phil- 

 anthidce, including Aphilanthops taurulus. This was on Sep- 

 tember 25th, and only staminate flowers were to be found. 

 Croton is a very large genus, with many neotropical species, 

 but also found in the tropics of the Old World. 



MALVACE51. 



(9). Sph/eralcea ANGUstifolia Spach. Abundant and variable 

 from Las Cruces to Santa Fe, in the former locality furnish- 

 ing P. latwr and P. sphteralcece ; in the latter a distinct race 

 of sphceralcece. At Santa Fe the Splicer alcea is visited also by 

 Epeolus, Bombus, Colletes, Melissodes, etc. At Las Cruces it 

 is principally visited by Diadasia. 



LOASACE.53. 



(10). Mentzelia nuda (Pursh) Torr. and Gray. Visited at Santa 

 Fe by P. mentzelice, and at Albuquerque by P. pallidior and 

 pulchrior. It is a favorite Bombus flower. The genus goes 

 south to Chili. 



UMBELLIFER^J. 



(11). Hydrocotyle umbellata L. Mr. Robertson reports P. 

 obscurata from this. I have never myself found any Perdita 

 on an Umbellifer. 



SOLANACE^J. 



(12). Chaivlesaracha coroxopus (Dunal) A. Gray. P. chamce- 

 sarachce abounds on this at Albuquerque, and was also taken 

 on it at Santa Fe. The genus is a small one, the Index 

 Kewensis cites 1 Texas, Mexico, 2 California (here including 

 our eoronopus), 1 Mexico, and 1 Japan. Thus it is not ap- 

 parently of neotropical origin. 



COMPOSITE. 



(13). Gutierrezia sarothr.e (Pursh) Britt. and Rusby. At 

 Albuquerque were found on this, one each of P. austini, 



gutierrezice and pallidior — the last doubtless accidental. 



(14). Gutierrezia sarothrje var. microcephala (Gray) Coul- 

 ter. This is common at Las Cruces, and has furnished P. 

 austini, semicrocea, luteola, phymatce, tarda and cladothricis. 

 On September 25th, a single $ verbesince was also taken on 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896 



it, but this was undoubtedly accidental, as verbesince was 

 extremely numerous on Verbesina close by, and if it had 

 anything to gain by visiting Gutierrezia, it would be seen 

 there more than once. 



The genus Gutierrezia goes south to the Magellan Strait 

 region. It is moderately numerous in species in the Mexican 

 (Sonoran) region and arid region of the U. S., and again in 

 in the southern part of the neotropical region, as far north 

 as Chili. 



(15). Solidago canadensis L. Figl. This common Golden-rod 

 has a wide range over the continent, and 

 extends from Las Cruces to Santa Fe, 

 being usually seen on or about the ace- 

 quia banks. Mr. Robertson records it as 

 one of the plants visited by P. octomacu- 

 lata in Illinois ; in Colorado Mr. Baker 

 has taken from it bakeroz, affinis, sexmac- 

 ulata var. and rectangulata. At Las 

 Cruces it furnished fair numbers of semi- 

 crocea, and a single grandiceps. It is 

 worthy of note that it is not at all visited 

 by luteola, or indeed any of the Bigelovia 

 species except semiwocea. 

 Fig. 1. 



(16). Bigelovia wrightii Gray. Fig. 2. This is the very abund- 

 ant Bigelovia of comparatively dry sandy ground between the 

 river bottoms and the benches at Las Cruces and Albuquer- 

 que, N. M. Hitherto it had been confounded by us with B. 

 rusbyi, owing to a specimen, apparently quite identical with 

 our plant, having been so named at the California Academy 



of Sciences. As I was somewhat 

 uneasy about this determination, 

 Professor AVooton at my request 

 sent a specimen to Columbia Col- 

 lege, and word comes back that 

 it is assuredly wrightii and not 

 rusbyi. This explanation is need- 

 ed, because I have sent out 

 various insects labelled as from 

 B. rusbyi. 



Besides being most prolific in 

 Perdita species, this plant is won- 

 derfully attractive to many kinds 

 of insects. At Albuquerque 1 

 got from it P. bigehwB, and 

 among other things the ant, Tap- 

 inoma anqle Andre, and quanti- 



Fig. 2. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



ties of a pretty Chalcidid, Orasema viridis Ash mead (Det. 

 Dep. Agric). The latter is new to the U. S. Fauna, having 

 been only lately described from a specimen found at Tepic, 

 Mexico (Proc. Cal. Ac. Sci., 1895, p. 553). 



At Las Cruces I found on B. wrightii plenty of P. luteola 

 especially, accompanied by semicrocea, ozneijrons, phymatce, 

 fallax, bigelovice, nitidella, austini, while cladothricis, pulch- 

 rior, maculipes and pellucida were occasional. Here the 

 flowers are peopled by the same species of ant, Tapinoma 

 anale Andre (det. Ernest Andre) as was found on them at 

 Albuquerque ; its color is such as to render it inconspicuous. 

 Three species of beetles are particularly noticed on the flow- 

 ers, Chauliognathus scutellaris Lee, Crossidius pulchellus 

 Lee, and Clems abniptus Lee. (det. Wickham), of which 

 the first two are yellow like the flowers, with some black ; 

 and the last (appearing in October) is beautifully marked 

 with red, resembling at a glance Sphcerophthalma heterochroa, 

 which is found in the same vicinity, though never on flow- 

 ers. Sundry Coccinellidse, Chrysomelida? and Bruchidre also 

 frequent the flowers. Some Heteropterous insects found on 

 the flowers are colored yellow to escape observation ; one of 

 these, Phymata fasciata, is predaceous, and a serious enemy of 

 the bees. So there are also yellow or yellowish Thomisida?, 

 and certain Bombyliidse and Trypetidse among the Diptera 

 which visit the Bigelovia flowers are more or less strongly 

 yellow — more especially the beautiful little Phthiria sulphu- 

 red Loew (see Psyche, January, 1895, p. 188). Among 

 Hymenoptera, besides various bees, are found several Phil- 

 anthidae, Scoliidae, Eumenidse, Chalcididre, Chrysididse, etc., 

 some of the species being new or rare in collections, for ex- 

 ample, Aphilanthops taurulus Ckll., A. guadrinotatus Ashm. 

 (heretofore only known from a specimen found at Denver, 

 Colo.), Acanthochalcis nigricans Cam., and Chrysis mesillce 

 Ckll. The genus Bigelovia belongs especially to the arid 

 region, but there are two species in Ecuador. 



(17). Chrysopsis villosa (Pursh) Nutt. This is properly a 

 mountain plant (abundant, for example, in the mid-alpine 

 of Colorado), but several vigorous plants are growing in a 

 dry watercourse near the N. M. Agricultural College, the 

 seeds having doubtless been washed from the Organ Mount- 

 ains. On one of these I caught the unique of P. vespertilio. 

 At Santa Fe I watched some Chrysopsis villosa, but only got 

 one specimen of an Anthophora. 



(18). Aster ericoides var. villosus (Michx.) Torr. and Gray. 

 Mr. Kobertson reports this as visited by P. octomaculata. 




38 

 (19). 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



Aster canescens var. viscosus (Nutt.) Gray. Fig. 3. At 

 Las Cruces this is freely visited by P. 

 asteris. Two species of Aster which are 

 common at Las Cruces, A. spinosus and A. 

 hesperius, have produced no Perdita. The 

 former is a weed of waste grounds, the 

 latter occurs on the acequia banks, so 

 they may not be natives of the immediate 

 region. It has occurred to me that by 

 watching the bees on a flower, some evi- 

 dence might be obtained as to the length 

 of time the flower has grown in the local- 

 ity. Thus, to take an extreme class of 

 cases, garden exotics are visited by com- 

 paratively few bees, and of course have 

 none peculiar to them, as P. asteris to 

 Aster canescens var. 



***& ,*flete 



Fig. 3. 



(20). Lepachys tagetes (James)Gray. 

 Visited by P. lepachidis ; also, at 

 Santa Fe, by Melissodes, Agaposte- 

 mon, Halictus and Bembex. 



(21). Helianthus annuus L. Fig. 4. 

 The sunflower is the flower of P. 

 albipennis ; very rarely a verbesinre 

 may also be found upon it. Other 

 sunflower bees nrePanurgus, Melis- 

 sodes and Andrena, all at Las 

 Cruces. Phymata fasciata also 

 occurs on the sunflower heads. 

 It is to be noted that the Andrena 

 found on sunflowers at Las Cruces 

 is not the same as Mr. Robertson's 

 Illinois A. helianthi. 



(22). Verbesina excelioides (Cav.) 

 Gray. Fig. 5. At Las Cruces 

 this produces commonly P. ver- 

 besinai, rarely beata, perpulehra Fig. 4. 



and albovittata, and occasionally or accidentally albipennis, 

 var. vagans, laticeps and fallax. In October I noticed Apis 

 mellijica visiting the flowers in numbers ; the honey-bee dies 

 longer and visits more species of flowers than any wild bee 

 I know, and must surely prove rather a serious competitor 

 of the wild species. The competition would be most severely 

 felt, of course, in those years when, owing to unfavor- 

 able weather, the flowers were less numerous than ordinary. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



The yellow bug Phymata faseiata Gray, 

 abounds on the Verbesina; on September 28th, 

 I found one which had caught a P. verbesince. 

 This Phymata not only preys on bees, but the 

 butterfly, Lyccena exilis, the house fly, Musca 

 domestica, and doubtless many other insects. 

 Another enemy of bees which is found on Ver- 

 besina is a Thomisid spider ; on September 

 22d, I found one of these had caught a P. 

 verbesince. 



There are various other Verbesina bees, in- 

 cluding the pretty Agapostemon melliventris, 

 which also appears in the spring, then visiting 

 Sisymbrium and Streptanthus. 



(23). Bidens aristosa (Michx) Britt., (^Core- 

 opsis aristosa Michx). Mr. Robertson cites 

 this as visited by P. octomaculata. 



(24). Senecio douglasii DC. On this Professor Wooton found 

 P. senecionis, as also an Andrena and other bees. 



(25). Pectis papposa Gray. This is visited by P. pectidis, but 

 cladothricis, fallax and biparticepsh&ve also been taken on it, 

 while once only a luteola was seen in the net after sweeping 

 Pectis. The flowers are frequented by an ant, Dorymyrmex 

 pyramieus Rog. (det. Andre). One also finds upon them 

 Panurgus (commonly) and Epeolus (rarely), as well as sun- 

 dry Philanthida? and Bombyliida?, etc. 

 The genus Pectis has many neoti'opical species, extending 

 even south to the Argentine Republic. It has also West 

 Indian representatives in Cuba, San Domingo and Curacoa. 



In reviewing the above list of plants, it will be readily seen that 

 Perdita does not usually frequent the boreal types of flowers, but 

 rather those which extend northward from the neotropical region. 

 This, taken with the known distribution of the genus, strongly sug- 

 gests that in the main we have to do with an austral series of types, 

 which have spread northward and become largely differentiated 

 into species since the glacial epoch. P. octomaculata, however, 

 must be looked upon as a survival from preglacial times ; and 

 here it is especially significant that affinis and senecionis, which 

 more especially represent octomaculata in the west, are the very ones 

 which visit boreal flowers, Solidago and Senecio to wit. Further, 

 bakene which does indeed visit Solidago also, shows every indication 

 of being a recent derivative from the Cleome type zebrata ; an in- 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



stance, in fact, of the neotropical immigrants adapting themselves 

 through modification to subboreal conditions. 



Another thing that deserves notice is the relationship between the 

 size of the bees, the length of their tongues, and the kinds of flowers. 

 It would appear that a longer tongue is not always developed inde- 

 pendently to meet requirements, but that the total size of the bee 

 may be increased, and with it the tongue. Or conversely, the size 

 of the bee may be reduced. Speculations of this kind are, perhaps, 

 not very profitable, but it will be advantageous to give the facts 

 which suggest them. 



Close to the N. M. Agricultural College Verbesina encelioides and 

 Bigelovia wrightii grow in the utmost profusion. In September col- 

 lections were made off both, the plants being but a few yards from 

 one another, with the following results: — 



Verbesina : — Perdita, Calliopsis, Pawurgus, Melissodes, Ccelioxys, 

 Andrena, Epeolus ; but on October 5th when the Bigelovia was getting 

 over, Halictus ligatus, H pectoraloides and Agapostemon melfiven- 

 tris. 



Bigelovia: — Perdita, Agapostemon, Anthophora (small species), 

 Megachile (one), Colletes, Halictus $ , Halictus stultus 9 , Prosoj/i-<, 

 Nomia nevadensis. 



Thus it will be seen that the bees of these two plants were almost 

 entirely of different genera in September, those on the Verbesina 

 being Apidre with few exceptions, those on the Bigelovia largely 

 Andrenidre. But as the Bigelovia began to be over, the large 

 Andrenidse visited the Verbesina, which had given a second crop 

 of flowers. Now 7 although Perdita appears equally in both lists, the 

 species are different, and if we except unique specimens, as we justly 

 may, those on the Verbesina are of larger size, those on the Bigelo- 

 via comparatively small. The abundant larger verbesina' is never 

 seen on Bigelovia, nor the not less abundant smaller luteola on Ver- 

 besina. 



And when we come to look at the Perdita Bpp. of the Gutu 

 they average still smaller than those of the Bigelovia. 



I am fortunate in being able to present some figures of the flow- 

 ers of some of the Perdita Composite, drawn by Miss Mae Gilmore 

 under the supervision of Professor E. O. Wooton. As they are all on 

 the same scale, (diam. x 5) the reader will be able to form his own 

 conclusions by studying them in connection with the facts above cited. 

 " The honey ... in Composite is secreted by a ring surrounding 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



the style at the base of a narrow tubular corolla, and as it accu- 

 mulates it rises up into the wider part of the corolla where it is ac- 

 cessible to the most short-lipped insects, and where the anthers 

 shelter it from rain." — (Hermann Midler). In the Bigelovia, Aster 

 and Solidago the tube is seen to be narrow, permitting the rapid 

 rise of the nectar, and probably preventing the insertion of the 

 tongue of large bees. Hence, these flowers are visited only by the 

 smaller species of Perdita, with other small Apidae and Andrenidae. 

 In Verbesina and Helianthus the tube is wider, doubtless permitting 

 the larger bees to readily insert their tongues ; but it it is narrower 

 at the neck than Bigelovia or Solidago, preventing small insects 

 from so readily thrusting their heads inward to stretch for the 

 nectar. The wider tube also may prevent the nectar from rising so 

 far, while in Helianthus there is a large bulb to contain it. 



Solidago canadensis is commonly cultivated in gardens in Europe 

 and there H. Muller mentions only flies as visiting it (Fertilization 

 of Flowers, p. 321), though he gives a further reference to a paper 

 which I have not seen. With us, as has been shown, it is native 

 and visited by several bees. 



THE NATURE OF SPECIFIC DIFFERENCES. 



It is a commonplace observation that specific characters are of 

 all kinds, and may be either strongly marked or difficult to discern. 

 A very small amount of study teaches us that there is no essential 

 difference between those characters called specific and those called 

 varietal ; in fact, the very same kind of difference which marks 

 species in one group, may only mark varieties or mutations in 

 another. Thus we come to see that the essential distinctions 

 between species are physiological, the morphological ones being 

 only valid for diagnostic purposes just s© far as they happen to 

 coincide with the physiological. 



There are even what I have termed " physiological species," i. e., 

 species separated only by habit ; not at all, so far as we can judge, 

 by structure, or if at all, in only a very slight degree. I have else- 

 where cited examples of this kind in Coccida?, but in Hymenoptera 

 we find many instances in which the tangible characters are reduced 

 to a minimum. Thus, Schmiedeknecht cites the case of Bomb us 

 silvarum var. $ nigrescens Perez, a submelauic mountain form, 

 which is only to be separated from B. pratorum by an examination 

 of the genitalia. Among the European Sphecodes also, a study of 



4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



microscopical characters has led to a remarkable increase in the 

 number of recognized species. Only the other day, I received a new 

 part of Marshall's Monograph of British Braconidae, in which the 

 following paragraph is sufficiently significant : — 



"Nearly a dozen species [of Aspilotd] have been indicated or 

 described ; their inconstant characters render precise definition ex- 

 tremely difficult, and tabulation almost impossible. . . . Accident 

 ha- brought to light some facts relative to one species, nervosa Hal., 

 from which it appears that the varieties mentioned by that author 

 [Haliday] belong almost certainly to several distinct species. The 

 fuseicarnis Hal., requires to be elucidated in a similar way, for the 

 capture and examination of isolated examples of unknown ori- 

 gin, lead to very uncertain results." (Tr. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1895, 

 p. 375). 



Now in Perdita precisely the same state of affairs occurs, and it 

 will thus be found that while certain species (e. g., erotonis, luteola) 

 are very easily recognized, some others (e. g., bakerce, verbesince) are 

 almost as well to be called races or varieties as species. In the 

 opinion of the writer, we have indeed the process of evolution going 

 on under our eyes, the puzzling forms being those which have only 

 lately segregated themselves, and have not yet developed striking 

 peculiarities. 



Take for example bakerce, the closest ally of the Cleome species 

 zebrata. It does not appear to differ more from zebrata than the 

 mutations of the latter do from one another, and in the female is 

 practically identical with it so far as outward signs go. But the <? 

 bakera' has a slight but constant difference in its wider supraelypeal 

 mark, and it also differs in its genitalia. These differences would 

 never have been noticed, in all probability, had not bakerce been 

 observed to differ in its habits from zebrata, to frequent not the 

 Cleome, but Golden-rod. In fact, the similarity is so great that Mr. 

 Fox, after seeing specimens, expressed the opinion that bakerce was 

 a synonym of zebrata. 



Another case, not less perplexing, is found in the albipennis-ver- 

 besiwr-lepachidis series. The males of this series, placed in a row, 

 readily separate into those which have narrow yellow bands on the 

 abdomen and those which have not. Those with the bands separate 

 into a series with the flagelluni orange, and one with it blackish, aud 

 it is seen that the former are from Verbesina, the latter from Helian- 

 thus. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Now the females of this series (that of lepachidis being unknown) 

 separate at once into those with broad distinct yellow abdominal 

 bands, and those with the abdomen only spotted. The former are 

 from Helianthus (rarely from Verbesina), the latter very abundant 

 on Verbesina. But now we find, to our surprise, that some of the 

 males with yellow on the abdomen belong to the spotted females, 

 and come from Verbesina ; while others (with the dark flagellum) 

 belong to the well banded Helianthus females. Further than this, 

 other males without the yellow belong to other well banded Helian- 

 thus females from a different locality. Thus among the Helianthus 

 forms (albipennis) the females from two localities (La Junta and 

 Las Cruces) are hardly at all different, while their males are 

 decidedly different ; and the male of the Las Cruces form more 

 resembles the <? of verbesina?, which is common on Verbesina in 

 the same locality. But the Las Cruces males differ from verbesince 

 in the color of the flagellum ; while the La Junta males, differing 

 from verbesince in the abdomen, resemble it in the antennae ! The 

 difficulty is still further increased by the occurrence of individual 

 varieties presenting other combinations of the "specific" characters. 

 In such a case as this we should be hopelessly adrift without bio- 

 logical observations. There is no apparent reason why the varia- 

 tions in clypeal markings should not be just as " specific " as those 

 in the color of the flagellum, or (as in lepachidis) in the color of 

 the head and thorax. Mr. Fox, after examining a series, concludes 

 that we do not know the $ of albipennis, and that my albipennis 

 $ , verbesince and lepachidis are all varieties of hyalina. But all 

 this is contradicted by actual observation of the insects on the flow- 

 ers. The characters which I have used occur uniformly in series 

 from the same flowers, except in the case of widely separated local- 

 ities, where they are still uniform for a given flower in a given locality. 

 There will be very rarely an individual proper to one flower found 

 on another, as one or two helianthi on Verbesina, but such excep- 

 tions do not vitiate the general rule. Some characters, as the differ- 

 ence in clypeal markings, belong especially to no one of these series, 

 and hence have no specific value. 



If, as believed, evolution is in progress among the species of Per- 

 dita, we are naturally led to seek for evidence of natural selection. 

 In some cases, as of the yellow luteola, beata and tnarcialis, all on 

 yellow flowers, we note at once the utility of the peculiarity ; and 

 when we see the yellow predaceous bug Phymata also on the flow- 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ers, the whole matter seems clear. Yet it must be confessed that on 

 Verbesina the yellow beata is extremely rare, while the dark verbe- 

 since abounds. 



The face-markings, so distinctive of species, differ greatly as a 

 rule in the sexes, and in most species are very constant. There is 

 every probability that they serve as recognition marks ; and it is 

 here significant that when they are very variable, as in 9 zebrata, 

 there is no other species of Perdita on the same flowers that could 

 be confused with the varying one. 



The species appear to be all single brooded, but the great resem- 

 blance between the vernal numerata and the late summer bigelovioz, 

 suggested the possibility of double-brooded seasonally dimorphic 

 species. The strongest fact, however, that militates against this 

 idea is that there are so many more late summer and autumn spe- 

 cies than vernal ones, while the eastern odomaculata is represented 

 by no congener at all in the spring. 



Another question arose as to the possibility of dimorphism in the 

 males of some species; references to this matter, which deserves 

 further study, will be found under the species concerned. 



It will be observed that the grouping of the species is arbitary, 

 those being associated which the student is likely to meet with on 

 the same flowers, or in the same part of the country. This was done 

 because it was felt that no natural arrangement could yet be arrived 

 at, and a purely artificial one, based solely on considerations of con- 

 venience, was better than one which might give a false idea of rela- 

 tionships. The difficulty arises in many cases from the so-called 

 " kaleidoscopic " characters, the possession of which by two species 

 does not necessarily imply descent from an ancestor exhibiting them. 

 Thus luteola and beata are colored alike in almost every detail 

 (except the black on the pleura of beata), and are extremely differ- 

 ent from any other Perdita. But beata in its size and hairy meso- 

 thorax approaches the albipennis group and departs widely from 

 luteola. The character of armed cheeks has already been referred 

 to, and several others might be cited. How strangely the several 

 "specific" characters may appear or disappear, is shown well in the 

 series of albipennis and verbesina\ * 



There is, however, one natural group, that of texana and latior, 

 which is very distinct and may ultimately be regarded as forming 

 a distinct genus. F. Smith's generic name Macrotera has been used 

 for texana, but perhaps incorrectly. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



Summing up, the writer has to express the opinion that variations 

 in Perdita certainly do not occur indefinitely in all directions, but 

 that they do occur independently, so that the several species differ 

 from one another hardly so much in absolute characters, as in the 

 various combinations presented of similar or identical characters 

 Furthermore, it is apparent that the earliest distinctions between 

 species are at least often of a very subtle character, so that the work- 

 ings of natural selection during the actual process of segregation 

 are anything but easy to observe. And this need not surprise us 

 when we reflect that among ourselves constitutional characters, not 

 easily identified by any coincident structural features, play so large 

 a part in determining our ability to reach manhood and beget off- 

 spring. 



ARTIFICIAL KEY. 



(Note. — The numbers before the specific names coincide with the 

 numbers of the same in the descriptive portion.) 



Entirely yellow, with no conspicuous markings 1 



Yellow or orange, with dark markings 3 



Head and thorax dark 5 



1. 8 mm. long, mesothorax pubescent, pleura with a black 



patch 63 beata 9 



About 4 mm. long, head very large, cheeks armed 15 larrece $ 

 Over 5 mm. long, head ordinary, cheeks unarmed, meso- 

 thorax not pubescent 2 



2. Antennae dark above, a black line before the eyes, 55 hdeola 9 

 Antennae not dark, a black dot before the eyes . 55 hdeola $ 



3. Extremely small, cheeks armed, mesothorax mostly green, 



16 marcialis $ 

 Not so small, vertex with a black band from eye to eye, 

 thorax with black markings 4 



4. Size 6 mm., head very large, abdomen without distinct 



bands 34 cephalotes <? 



Size 4i mm., head not very large, abdomen with distinct 

 bands 35 punctosignata $ 



5. Abdomen orange, or orange-brown, or ferruginous; not 



banded, unless at base 6 



Abdomen dark brown, or black, or spotted, or banded . . 13 



6. Head large, abdomen short and broad, ferruginous, mar- 



ginal cell obliquely truncate, mandibles bidentate ... 7 

 Not so 8 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



7. Head brown, thorax black 1 texana $ 



Head and thorax dark green 2 latior $ 



8. Cheeks toothed beneath, legs entirely yellow . 14 pulchrior £ 

 Cheeks unarmed 9 



9. Face all dark 10 



Face partly pale 11 



10. Nervures colorless, abdomen orange . . . .54 semicrocea 9 

 Nervures fuscous, abdomen dark testaceous, 32 halictoides 9 

 Nervures ferruginous, abdomen ferruginous . . 33 bieolor $ 



11. The pale color confined to clypeus and triangular marks at 



side of face 20 chayncesarachce 9 



Face all light below antennse; length 3? mm 12 



12. Area between eyes and ocelli smooth and shining likemeso- 



thorax, 2d segment of abdomen with a dark band, vertex 



and mesothorax not blue 54 semicrocea $ 



Area between eyes and ocelli distinctly granular, much 

 duller than the shining mesothorax, 2d segment of abdo- 

 men without a band, vertex and mesothorax dark blue. 



20 chamcesarachoe $ 



13. Clypeus entirely dark 14 



Clypeus not entirely dark 24 



14. Abdomen piceous with yellow spots or dots, legs with yellow 



markings 15 



Abdomen not spotted 16 



15. Length about 6 mm., abdomen with only 4 pale dots . . 



26 var. punctata 9 

 Length about 5 mm., abdomen with 6 pale yellow spots or 



blotches 26 sexmaculata J 



16. Abdomen black with pale yellowish bands 17 



Abdomen not banded 20 



Abdomen dark brown, with a short white band on 2d seg- 

 ment; size very small, less than 4 nun. . 41 cladothricis 2 



Abdomen testaceous with suffused bands, mesothorax 

 smooth, shiny 6 ventralis J 



17. Stigma brownish, mesothorax hairy, size larger, 7 mm. or 



over 1 x 



Stigma entirely pallid, mesothorax practically nude, size 



smaller, not over 6 mm l ;t 



18. Nervures almost colorless 22 sphceraieea 9 



Nervures dark brown 22 y.altuo/a £ 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



19. Anterior femora mostly black, abdomen with heavy dark 



bands 12 mentzelue 9 



Anterior femora entirely pale, abdomen with evanescent 

 bands 13 pallidior 9 



20. Head and thorax piceous, marginal cell obliquely truncate, 



abdomen ovate, size rather large 1 texana 9 



Thorax black except the green metathorax ; head green, 



front a?neous 53 mneifrons 9 



Thorax black except the blue metathorax ; head blue ; a 



yellow spot on each side of clypeus ... 18 semicterulea 9 

 Head and thorax green 21 



21. Females • 22 



Males, size small, nervures and stigma testaceous, fore tibiae 



yellow in front 4 arcuala $ 



22. Abdomen broad, mandibles bidentate, marginal cell ob- 



liquely truncate 2 latior 9 



Not so 23 



23. Small, about 4 1 mm. long, nervures brown . . 52 phymatce 9 

 Larger, nervures nearly colorless 68 v. nigrior 9 



24. Face below level of antenna? all yellow or white, except 



clypeal dots in some. Males 25 



Face below level of antenna? not all pale 43 



25. Face below antenna? white 26 



Face below antenna? yellow 2 s 



26. Last three segments of abdomen rufous, the other banded 



19 erotonis. 



Abdomen yellowish-white, banded, face below antenna? pel- 

 lucid white, first 4 legs all dull white except a dark streak 

 on middle tibia? 50 pellucida. 



Abdomen dark brown with white markings 27 



27. Abdomen with about 6 white marks, or fewer yellowish 



spots 42 pectidis. 



Abdomen with two more or less developed white bands, 



41 cladothricis. 



28. Legs black with a little yellowish 25 affinis. 



Anterior and middle femora marked with black, cheeks 



unarmed 29 



Anterior femora all yellow, the 4 anterior tibia? not all yel- 

 low 33 



First 4 legs all yellow, or at least not marked with black or 

 brown 34 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



29. Nervures pallid 22 sphceralcece. 



Nervures dark 30 



30. Face and disc of mesothorax nearly bare, face below anten- 



nae bright yellow 31 



Face and disc of mesothorax hairy 32 



31. Very small, abdomen yellow with pale suffused brown 



bands 43 biparticeps. 



Larger, abdomen dark with clean-cut interrupted light 

 bands 27 redan gulata. 



32. Head broader than long, distal band on 2d abdominal seg- 



ment broadly continued to lateral margin, dog-earmarks 



with more or less of a dark border below . 22 v. alticola. 



Head round, distal band of 2d abdominal segment failing 



some distance before lateral margin .... 38 hirsuta. 



33. Face all yellow (except the auteorbital spots) up to middle 



ocellus 29 luteiceps. 



Face not all yellow up to middle ocellus . . 49 maculipes. 



34. Legs entirely orange-rufous, abdomen black, nervures 



brown 21 foxi. 



Legs not orange-rufous, abdomen banded 35 



35. The yellow extending above antennae in median line . . . 36 

 The yellow not extending above antennae in median line . 41 



36. The yellow extending above across the face 37 



The yellow extending above only at sides and middle line . 39 



37. Larger, about 5 mm. long, face-markings resembling gutier- 



rezive 48 bigelovice. 



Smaller, about 4 mm. long 38 



38. Face yellow up to anterior ocellus 37 martini. 



Face not yellow up to anterior ocellus . . .45 gutierrezicB. 



39. Upward extension of yellow in median line narrow, shaped 



like a spear-head, abdomen above with only 3 or 4 bands, 



40 salxcis. 

 Upward extension of yellow in median line broader ... 40 



40. Incursion of blue downward terminating at a right angle ; 



pleura dark 47 nitidella. 



Incursion of blue terminating at an acute angle : pleura 

 largely yellow 36 exclamans. 



41. Cheeks armed, abdomen heavily banded . . 12 mentzelia: 

 Cheeks unarmed 42 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



42. Abdomen not heavily marked 13 pollidior. 



Abdomen piceous with ill-defined yellowish bands .... 



10 obscurata. 



43. The pale color confined to clypeus and sides of face ... 44 

 The pale color not confined to clypeus and sides of face . . 72 



44. Abdomen dark, not banded, or the bands discontinuous . 45 

 Abdomen with continuous bands 63 



45. Larger species, length over 6 mm 46 



Smaller species, 6 mm. or less 51 



46. Mesothorax practically nude 47 



Mesothorax hairy 49 



47. Abdomen dark brown without pale marks ... 56 nuda 9 

 Abdomen with pale marks, clypeus pale with two black bars, 48 



48. Abdominal markings yellow 11 octomaculata 9 



Abdominal markings creamy white . . . .58 senecionis. 9 



49. Female ; abdomen more or less spotted . . 68 verbeshuc. 

 Males . . '. 50 



50. Head and thorax brassy-green 70 lepachidi*. 



Head and thorax rather bluish-green ... 69 alblpennis. 



51. Abdomen without distinct light markings 51a 



Abdomen with yellow or white markings 58 



51a Pale face-marks reduced to a spot on clypeus; nervures 



brown 52 phymatce var. 9 



Pale face-marks not so reduced, lateral marks present . . 52 



52. Nervures brown, Californian species 53 



Nervures pallid 54 



53. Lateral face-marks with their upper angle a right angle. 



3 californiea £ var. 

 Lateral face-marks with their upper angle a very acute 

 angle 31 trisignata 9 



54. Clypeus with two large dark patches on hind margin, up- 



per angle of lateral face-marks a very acute angle, meso- 

 thorax very hairy 57 asteris 9 



Clypeus pale except the usual dots 55 



55. Anterior tibia? black in front ; face extremely hairy . . . 



65 albovittata $ 



Anterior tibia? yellow or rufotestaceous in front 5Cy 



-56. Marginal cell with the substigmatal portion very much 



longer than the poststigmatal, size very small 



17 larrearum 9 

 Marginal cell ordinary 57 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



57. Larger (4? ram.), face less hairy, lateral face-marks shaped 



like the main-sail of a schooner 66 vagmis $ 



Smaller (4 mm.), face more hairy, lateral face-marks tri- 

 angular 59 vespertilio $ 



58. Abdomen with 6 or 8 white marks 59 



Abdomen with yellowish markings 60- 



59. Mesothorax shiny ; clypeus dark with a light spot ; face- 



markings white 42 pectidis 9 



Mesothorax dull ; clypeus light with dark spots or bars ; 

 face-markings yellowish 51 faltax 9 



60. Face-markings white, 1st segment of abdomen largely blue, 



5 interrupta S 



Face-markings yellowish or yellow Hi 



61. Postscutellum yellow 7 mexicanorum $ 



Postscutellum not yellow 62 



62. Nervures dark brown, lateral face-marks truncate above, 



clypeus light marked with dark, mesothorax dullish, ab- 

 dominal marks very pale 25 affinis 9 



Nervures colorless, lateral face-marks pointed above, cly- 

 peus dark marked with light, mesothorax shining, ab- 

 dominal marks yellower 10 obscurata 9 



63. Larger species, length over 6 mm » ; 4 



Smaller species, 6 mm. or less 68- 



64. Males, abdominal bands narrow, inconspicuous, dull yellow, 



emarginate at sides 65 



Females, bands conspicuous 66 



65. Front comparatively shining, flagellum blackish 



69 var. kelianthi 2 



Front dull, flagellum orange QS verb&tince $ 



<Wi. Abdomen white with black bands, clypeus white with two 



black dots 64 perpulchra 9 



Abdomen dark with yellow bands ii7 



67. Nervures dark 67 sparsa 9 



Nervures colorless 69 albipennis 9 



(18. Clypeus hairy, legs black, face-markings and abdominal 



bands white . ^ 65 albovittatn J 



Not so ,; !> 



69. Yellow at sides of face extending above level of insertion of 



antennae: size very small 44 autiini $ 



Yellow or whitish at sides of face only extending to level 



of insertion of antennae ; size not so small 70 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



70. Abdomen dark with light bands 48 bigelovioz 9 



Abdomen light with dark bands 71 



71. Mesothorax very shiny, dark blue-green ... 47 nitidella 9 

 Mesothorax dull, hairy, brassy-green 28 snowii 9 



72. Dog-ear marks absent 73 



Dog-ear marks present, or at least represented by dots . . 83 



73. Abdomen with the last two segments bright rufous, the 



others white with black bands 19 crotonis 9 



Not so 74 



74. Bands of abdomen at least mostly entire 75 



Bands of abdomen all interrupted 80 



Abdomen dark without bands 82 



75. Stigma solid dark brown or black, clypeus with two broad 



black bars, lateral pale areas of face pinkish, 39 numerata 9 

 Stigma hyaline, at least centrally 70 



76. Anterior legs entirely yellow, mesothorax dull, sides of face 



broadly yellow up to level of antenna?, then for a short 



way suddenly very narrowly 27 rectangulata 9 



Anterior legs partly black 77 



77. The black bands of abdomen not united on lateral margin, 



anterior tibia? all yellow, lateral pale triangle of face 

 coming to a point above, face-markings lemon-yellow . . 



8 zonalis 9 

 The black bands of abdomen more or less united on lateral 

 margin, anterior tibiae with a black mark behind .... 78 



78. Lateral triangle of face obliquely truncate above ; a bluer 



species 48 bigelovice 9 var. 



Lateral triangle of face coming to a point above, but nar- 

 rower than in zonalis, face-markings pallid ; a greener spe- 

 cies 79 



79. Supraclypeal mark broad, notched in middle . 24 bakene 9 

 Supraclypeal mark narrower, or reduced to two spots . . 



23 zebrata 9 



80. Female, flagellum only pale testaceous beneath 



25 affirm 9 var. 

 Males 81 



81. Flagellum dark; species of eastern U. S. . 11 odomaculata. 

 Flagellum mostly yellow ; species of Lower California . . . 



67 sparsa. 



82. Head large, quadrate, face very hairy .... 62 laticeps $ 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Head ordinary, face not so hairy ... 57 asteris 9 var. 



83. Abdomen black or dark brown, without pale marks ... 84 



Abdomen not banded, but with yellow marks 86 



Abdomen distinctly banded 87 



84. Cheeks armed, head large, clypeus with a narrow median 



line and broad anterior border yellow, two yellow spots 



above clypeus 60 grandiceps $ 



Cheeks unarmed, clypeus all pale except the usual dots . . 85 



85. Lateral corners of clypeus reaching base of mandibles, mar- 



ginal cell shorter 3 califoruica 2 



Lateral corners of clypeus not reaching base of mandibles, 

 marginal cell longer 61 crassiceps $ 



86. The yellow abdominal marks oblique, dog-ear marks rep- 



resented by dots only 9 nevadensis 9 



The yellow abdominal marks small and straight . 46 tarda <? 



81. Males 88 



Females 92 



88. Cheeks armed 6 ventralis. 



Cheeks unarmed 89 



89. Mesothorax granular, abdominal bands without lateral 



bulgings on proximal margin, face-markings deep yellow, 



22 sphoeralceoz var. 

 Mesothorax smooth and shining 90 



90. Middle and posterior femora yellow, without black patches, 



abdominal bands regular, though with <ublateral bulg- 

 ings on proximal margins, marginal cell longer, 30 dubia 2 

 Middle and posterior femora with black spots or patches, 

 marginal cell shorter 91 



91. Supraclypeal mark very little broader than long, 23 zebrata 2 

 Supraclypeal mark nearly twice as broad as long .... 



24 baker- 



92. Nervures colorless ; pale stripe along anterior orbits not 



extending to level of middle ocellus .... 40 solicit. 



Nervures dark ; pale stripe along anterior orbits extending 



to level of middle ocellus 36 exclamans. 



Species of Texas and Mexico, with the mandibles bifid <rf tips, the 



Ji>>ad large, the stigma subobso/ete, the abdomen broad, rufous in the 



$ , black or piceous in the 9 • 



1. Perdita texana ^Cr.) Cr., Cat. llym., 1S87, p. 296. 



. Vacrotera '...„„„ Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Boo., I\\ p. 70. | Bab., Texas . 

 ' Macrotera megacephala Cr., 1. o., p. 71. ijlub., Texas , 



This species was discovered by Mr. L. Heiligbrodt, who took three 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



of each sex. I know of no other specimens, and nothing is known 

 of the exact locality or habits. The dark chocolate-brown head and 

 black thorax at once separate this species from P. latior. In both 

 species the marginal cell is obliquely truncate. 

 2. Perdita latior n. sp. Fig. 6, (part of wing). 



$ 9 , length 5^-6 mm., broad, head large, broader than long ; 

 head, thorax, legs and tip of abdomen with pubescence consisting of 

 dull white erect hairs ; punctuation of vertex, mesothorax and 

 scutellum very fine and close; upper surface of meta- 

 thorax bare, shining, minutely granular ; dorsum of 

 abdomen very minutely punctured, the punctures on 

 Fig. 6. first segment very sparse. Teguke pale testaceous; 

 wings hyaline, nervures pale brown, stigma little developed, 3d 

 discoidal present, marginal about as long as 1st submarginal, 2d sub- 

 marginal narrowed more than half to marginal. 



$ . — Clypeus prominent, with a minute tooth on each side. Head 

 and thorax dark green, metathorax strongly tinged bluish. Mandi- 

 bles except their dark tips, clypeus, lower corner of face, and a broad 

 transverse band between antenna?, dull testaceous. The punctua- 

 tion, which is close before the ocelli, becomes sparse behind them. 

 Antenna? dull testaceous, more or less suffused with blackish. Legs 

 dark piceous, the front of the anterior tibia? and all the tibial spurs, 

 dull testaceous. Abdomen shining, ferruginous ; first segment more 

 or less suffused with blackish. 



9 • — Head and thorax dark green, face almost black, dorsum of 

 mesothorax and scutellum purplish, dorsum of metathorax bluish. 



Antenna? dark brown, the last 7 joints of flagellum beneath be- 

 coming dull testaceous or ferruginous. Mandibles yellowish-ferru- 

 ginous, dark at tips. Legs colored as in $ . Abdomen brown- 

 black, the margins of the segments subtestaceous. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., middle of August, 1895, on flowers of 

 Sphceralcea angustifolia, 3^,39. (Ckll., 4,806, 4,809, 4,814, etc.) 

 It was associated with Diadasia and Halictus. 



Obs.. P. areuata Fox, the description of which reads rather like 

 latior, is of a different group, viz. that of californica, etc. 



Species of California and Mexico, with the clypeus in the $ 

 narrmvly produced at the sides to the bases of the mandibles, resemb- 

 ling in shape a panama hat. 

 8. Perdita californica (Cr.) Cr., Cat. Hyni., 1887, p. 296. 



$ Macrotera californica Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1878, p. 71. (Hab., California). 



Three specimens are known, collected by Edwards and Crotch. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Nothing is known of exact locality or habits. The following notes 

 were made from one of the types. 



Clypeus panama-hat-shaped, as in interrupta. Cheeks unarmed. 

 Dog-ear marks distinct, but supraclypeal mark wanting. Head 

 quite large. Mandibles simple. 



The lateral face-marks have their upper angle a right angle, and 

 are so placed as to be exactly level with top of clypeus, the dog-ear 

 marks projecting a little above the same level. 



The mesothorax is tolerably shiny, but quite closely and strongly 

 punctured. The stigma and veins are brown, not very dark ; mar- 

 ginal long, obliquely truncate, appendiculate, poststigmatal portion 

 considerably longer than substigmatal. Stigma small. 2d sub- 

 marginal large, narrowed fully one-half to marginal. 3d discoidal 

 distinct but rather weak. 



The following tables separate calijornica from two species present- 

 ing a certain superficial resemblance to it. 



A. (1). Upper margin of face-marks forming nearly a straight line. 



Head larger. Marginal cell appendiculate Margins of 

 abdominal segments very distinctly reddish-testaceous, 



=ealifornica $ . 



(2). Upper margin of face-marks forming a broad W. Head 



smaller. Marginal cell not appendiculate. Margins of 



abdominal segments not reddish-testaceous, =asteris $ . 



B. (1). Larger. Supraclypeal mark absent. Lateral face-marks 



not reaching level of insertion of antennae. Clypeus shaped 



like a panama hat, .... =caliJ'ornica <? . 



(2). Smaller. Supraclypeal mark present. Lateral face-marks 



going above level of insertion of antenna?. Clypeus shaped 



like a rather low cork helmet, . . =tarda $ . 



4. Perdita arcuata Fox, Proc. Cala. Aea.l., 1893, p. L8. f < Hah.. Caluialli 

 Mine?, L. Cain., in April). 



Two specimens known, found by Mr. Haines. From one of these I 

 noted as follows: Mandibles simple; cheeks unarmed. Differs 

 from semiccerulea, phymatoz and latior in having margins of abdom- 

 inal segments broadly rufotestaceous, exactly as in calijornica. In 

 the shape of the head, and general structure, it precisely agrees with 

 calijornica ; but differs from that by its entirely dark face, the labrum 

 and the base of the mandibles only being yellowish. The vertex is 

 well punctate, and it and the mesthorax are quite dull. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



5. Perdita interrupta Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Boo., L878, p. 70. $ i Hab.. California). 



Three specimens were found by Crotch; we have no information 

 as to exact locality or habits. From one of the types I noted the 

 following : 



Cheeks unarmed, quite densely (for a Perdita) white pubescent. 

 Face more hairy than usual. Clypeus with two black dots. Lateral 

 pale patches of face forming nearly right-angled triangles, the upper 

 angle being the right angle. Mesothorax granular, dull. "Wings 

 distinctly smoky, nervures dark brown. Marginal rather long, sub- 

 stigmatal portion equal topoststigmatal. Second submarginal nar- 

 rowed about or hardly one-half to marginal. Third discoidal dis- 

 tinct. First segment of abdomen, except its distal margin, blue, 

 granular, in strong contrast with the piceous remaining segments. 

 P.fallax, which presents a certain superficial resemblance to inter- 

 rupta, differs as follows : 



(1). Its clypeus is shaped like a felt hat, uot like a panama hat as 

 in interrupta. 



(2). The upper angle of lateral face-marks is a very acute angle. 



(3). The poststigmatal portion of marginal cell is distinctly longer 

 than the substigmatal. 



(4). The head and thorax are green, whereas they are blue in 

 interrupta. 



6. Perdita ventralis Pox, Proc. Cala. Acad., 1S93, p. 17. J as j ex. err. ; Proc. 



Cala. Acad., L894, p. 116 c. 



The original types, three specimens, were found by Mr. Haines on 

 Margarita Island, L. Cala.. in March. Later, the same collector 

 obtained numerous examples including females, on Magdalena 

 Island, also in March. These islands are close together, a little south 

 of the 25th parallel of latitude. 



The $ has the cheeks armed, and the clypeus panama-hat shaped. 

 In the 9 the cheeks are unarmed, and the clypeus differently 

 shaped. In the $ the mandibles are very slender, pointed : in the 

 9 stout, notched within. In view of these differences, it is at first 

 hard to believe that they are sexes of one species, for all that they 

 agree in the abdomen with its suffused banding, in the mesothorax, 

 etc. 



P. ventralis is smaller than mentzelice and pallidior, and differs by 

 the suffused banding of abdomen. P. mentzelice and pallidior have 

 the mesothorax microscopically tessellate, with distinct sparse 

 punctures ; ventralis has it very shiny, smooth, hairless except the 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



anterior third, which is sparsely hairy and punctured. The thorax 

 shines distinctly blue in ventralis $ , but in the 9 it hardly goes off 

 a pure black. The 2 resembles ealifornica in its face-markings, 

 but is so much smaller, and the dog-ear marks are much more 

 prominent. The vertex is minutely roughened in the same way in 

 $ and 9 . 



The face in the $ i3 all dark, not so in the $ . The <? has the 

 lateral face-marks much broader than long, the dog-ear marks well- 

 developed, but the supraclypeal mark represented only by a dot 

 adjacent to each dogear mark. 



It is to be regretted that ventralis is the only undoubted member 

 of the ealifornica group of which we know the 9 . The sexual dif- 

 ferences in Perdita are very unequal in the different species, whether 

 occurring as face-markings or as structural characters. In the un- 

 doubted sexes of P. verbeshue, the clypeal differences are not so great 

 as in ventralis, but the difference in the mandibles is actually much 

 greater. 



7. Perdita mexicanorum n. sji. 



$ . — Length about 5£ mm. Head and thorax dark blue. Head 

 rather large, cheeks unarmed, clypeus panama-hat shaped, glossa 

 very long and unusually hairy. Cheeks and face very sparsely hairy 

 with short hairs. Vertex strongly granular, and with rather close 

 but shallow punctures. Antenn:e entirely sepia-brown, the same 

 color above as below. Mandibles yellowish, subtestaceous, dark at 

 tips, simple, not particularly slender. Face-mark inga sulphur-yellow ; 

 clypeus yellow with the usual two black dots very small and near 

 the edge, and its proximal margin (the crown of the panama-hat) 

 broadly dark, the edge of the yellow somewhat irregular and medi- 

 ally emarginate. Supraclypeal and dog-ear marks absent. Sides of 

 face with large squarish yellowish patches, their upper margins 

 truncate and rather irregular, about level with the top of the clypeus. 

 Inwardly, these patches do not join the clypeal margin, but leave a 

 thin wedge of dark color between. 



Thorax dark blue, the mesothorax slightly inclined to greenish. 

 Prot.horax and tubercles entirely dark ; postscutellum sulphur- 

 yellow. Mesothorax moderately shiniug, but distinctly granular 

 and punctuate, median groove distinct. Metathorax shining but 

 very distinctly granular. 



Tegula? testaceous ; wings slightly smoky, nervures and stigma 

 dull brownish-ochreous, stigma not centrally hyaline. Marginal 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



cell rather long, very distinctly appendiculate, poststigmatal portion 

 a little longer than substigmatal. Second submarginal rather large, 

 narrowed hardly one-half to marginal, the narrowing more proximal 

 than distal. Third discoidal distinct. Cubital and subdiscoidal 

 nervures produced almost to wing-margin. 



Legs sepia-brown ; anterior tibise in front, and a stripe on middle 

 tibise, yellow. 



Abdomen shining, sepia-brown, darker toward the apex ; venter 

 nearly the same. There are well-defined yellow marks at sides of 

 segments 2-5, partly passing over to the venter. 



Hab. — Mexico, one example sent by Mr. Fox. Unhappily we 

 know nothing of the exact locality or habits of this interesting species. 

 It is the only Perdita I know with a yellow postscutellum. 



Two species from Nevada, known only in the $ ; exact locality and 

 habits unknown. 



8. Perdita zonalis Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1879, p. 202. $ (Hab., Nevada). 



Ten specimens were collected by Morrison. From one of these I 

 have noted as follows : 



Clypeus low cork-helmet type, reaching base of mandibles. 

 Mesothorax excessively shiny, dark brassy-green, very sparsely but 

 distinctly punctured. Face markings pale yellow. Upper margin 

 of clypeus medially truncate, not rounded. Clypeus all yellow 

 except two dark dots. Supraclypeal patch well-developed, broad, 

 but not twice as broad as long. No dog-ear marks. Sockets of 

 antenna? narrowly ringed with yellow. Lateral face marks trian- 

 gular, rather broad, coming to a point at level of insertion of 

 antennse. Upper margin of face marks not forming a W but V V. 

 Stigma and nervures pale testaceous, stigma large, marginal cell with 

 poststigmatal portion longer than substigmatal. Second submarginal 

 large, narrowed one-half to marginal. Third discoidal distinct- 

 Abdomen above yellow with four black bands, and a black mark 

 on each side of first segment. The abdomen is peculiar for the 

 black bands being very distinct, neither notched nor interrupted in 

 the middle, and narrower than the yellow between them. 



From zebrata and bakerce it may be known by the black bands of 

 abdomen not being united on lateral margin, the anterior tibia? all 

 yellow, the lateral triangle of face broader and the face markings 

 lemon-yellow. From salicis $ it is distinguished at once by the 

 very much broader lateral face-marks. 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



9. Perdita nevadensis n. sp. 



9 . — Length almost 6 mm. Head so dark green as to seem 

 black ; thorax pitch black, with the metathorax green. In certain 

 lights the prothorax and anterior part of the mesothorax present a 

 greenish lustre. Head moderately large, broader than long, de- 

 pressed on vertex ; clypeus shaped like a rather low cocked-hat, 

 flattened at the top, the teeth of anterior margin dark and rather 

 long. Vertex dull, rugulose. Face and cheeks with sparse incon- 

 spicuous hairs. Antennae dark brown ; the flagellum paler, inclin- 

 ing to yellow beneath. Face-markings pale dull yellowish ; clypeus 

 pale with two broad divergent black bars and a black dot distad of 

 each, supraclypeal mark represented by two round or suboval spots ; 

 dog-ear marks represented by obscure small spots, not alike on both 

 sides ; lateral pale patches triangular, the upper angle an acute one 

 and level with the insertion of the antenna?, the shortest side of the 

 triangle at least two-thirds the length of the longest. Mesothorax 

 shiny, hardly granular, sparsely hairy and punctate. Thorax all 

 dark, except the tubercles, which are pale yellow. Metathorax 

 granular. 



Tegulse pale testaceous. Wings hyaline, faintly smoky, nervures 

 and stigma pale brown, stigma centrally subhyaline. Marginal 

 cell moderately long, obliquely truncate, poststigmatal portion a 

 very little longer than substigmatal. Second submarginal large, 

 narrowed on its distal side one-half to marginal. Third discoidal 

 distinct. Legs dark brown, anterior knees, anterior tibia? in front 

 and stripe on middle tibiae, yellow. 



Abdomen rather broad, above and below piceous, segments 2-4 

 above with distinct oblique lateral yellow marks. The mark on the 

 2d segment is on one side broken into two. 



Hab. — Nevada, one specimen sent by Mr. Fox. 



The following tables will separate nevadensis from some species 

 which it superficially resembles. 



A. (1). Lateral marks of face triangular, terminating in a point, 



=nevadensis 9 • 

 (2). Lateral marks of face truncate at end and notched within. 



=ajrinis 9 . 



B. (1). Face-markings whitish, lateral marks narrower, abdom- 



inal marks white, ..... =fallax 9 . 



(2). Face-markings yellow, lateral marks broader, abdominal 



marks yellow, .... —nevadensis 9 . 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 59 



C. (1). Larger, clypeus higher, supraclypeal mark absent, lateral 



marks notched within, . . . oetomaculata 9 . 



(2). Smaller, clypeus lower, supraclypeal mark present, lateral 



marks not notched within, . . =nevadensis 9 . 



Species found east of the 95th meridian. 

 10. Perdita obscurata Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1878, p. 70. <? $ (Hab., Georgia). 



One male and one female were found by Morrison. I have made 

 the following description from the female ; the student will observe 

 that in some points it disagrees with that of Cresson, notwithstand- 

 ing that it is from the same specimen. 



9 • — Head and thorax dark bluish-green. Clypeus broad, not 

 much attenuate at sides, reaching base of mandibles. Face-mark- 

 ings pale yellow, lateral marks very narrow, inversely club-shaped, 

 reaching as far as level of insertion of antennae. Clypeus without 

 marks, except a very distinct central one, shaped like an inverted 

 egg-cup with the egg in it, the base at posterior clypeal border, the 

 apex not reaching anterior border of clypeus. Mandibles except 

 tips pale yellow. Mesothorax shiny. Tubercles rather pale brown- 

 ish. Hind margin of prothorax with two small yellow spots. Wings 

 hyaline, stigma very large, pale yellowish, veins colorless. Mar- 

 ginal cell with the substigmatal portion a little longer than the post- 

 stigmatal. First submarginal very long, longer than marginal. 

 Second submarginal short, suboval and high, narrowed about one- 

 half to marginal. On one side there is a small petiolate submarginal 

 cell between normal 1st and 2d submarginals, it receives the first 

 recurrent nervure, and is approximately an equilateral triangle. 

 Third discoidal distinct. The broadly interrupted narrow fasciae 

 on abdomen are not obscure or suffused, but clean-cut and distinct. 

 It differs from the 9 of affinis by the lateral face-marks being 

 pointed above, the clypeus dark marked with light, the mesothorax 

 shiny, the nervures colorless, and the abdominal marks yellowish. 



The $ I have not seen ; Mr. Fox has kindly sent me a sketch of 

 the face-markings, showing the face entirely yellow below the level 

 of the antennae, the yellow not extending upward at all in the 

 median line, but obliquely extending upward at the sides from the 

 antennal socket to the orbital margin, where it ends at an angle of 

 about 50°. The cheeks, Mr. Fox informs me, are not armed. 



Mr. Charles Robertson tells me that at Orlando, Florida, on March 

 16th, he captured a $ obscurata on flowers of Hydrocotyle umhellata. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



11. Perdita octomaculata (Say). Cr., Cat. Apidse, 1879, p. 216. 



Panurgua 8-maeulatus Say, Long's 2d. Exped., ii, p. 350, 1824. tf 5 (Hab., U. 

 S.). 



I have a $ from New York State, sent by Dr. Skinner, and a $ 

 from southern Illinois, sent by Mr. Roberston. Mr. Fox informs me 

 that he has seen specimens from the White Mts., N. H., collected by 

 Mrs. Slosson,New York, New Jersey and Virginia. He has taken it in 

 southern New Jersey, but sparingly. Prof. J. B. Smith reports it 

 from Westville, N. J., on Cresson's authority. Of its habits, nothing 

 has been recorded, but Mr. C. Robertson informs me that he ha& 

 taken it from Aug. 13th to Sept. 20th, on flowers of Solidago canad- 

 ensis, Coreopsis aristosa aud Aster ericoides var. villosus. 



Three allied species found on Mentzelia in New Mexico. 



12. Perdita mentzelise n. sp. 



S . — About 5£ mm. long. Head rather large, quadrate, broader 

 than thorax, mandibles simple, cheeks beneath with a prominent 

 tooth, lower margin of clypeus nearly straight; vertex finely 

 rugulose, with sparse feeble punctures between the ocelli and the 

 antennae ; eyes narrow. Color very dark blue-green, with the whole 

 of the face beneath the antennae, and the lower half of the cheeks, 

 including the spines, orange-yellow. On each side of the face the 

 yellow extends upward, narrowing to a point on the orbital margin 

 about two-thirds the length of the scape above the level of the 

 insertion of the antennae. Mandibles yellow with ferruginous tips. 

 Antennae yellow, becoming deep orange toward their tips ; the 

 flagellum slightly marked with blackish above. 



Thorax shiny, very dark blue-green, becoming black on the 

 scutellum and hind part of mesothorax, metathorax tinged with 

 blue. Collar, tubercles, under side and part of hind border of pro- 

 thorax orange-yellow. Mesothorax with only a few scattered indis- 

 tinct punctures. Metathorax minutely granular. Pleura, anterior 

 border of mesothorax and sides of metathorax with scattered white 

 hairs. 



Tegulac hyaline ; wings hyaline, nervures very pale yellowish. 

 Marginal cell about or hardly as long as stigma. Second sub- 

 marginal not narrowed one-half to marginal. Third discoidal 

 hardly perceptible. 



Legs orange; posterior femora with a brown patch behind ; poste- 

 rior tibiae and tarsi mostly brown. Abdomen orange-yellow, first 

 segment almost all black, segments 2, 3 and 4 with broad suffused 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



black bands. Venter orange, immaculate. Quite as often, perhaps 

 more frequently, the abdomen is shining black above, except the 

 terminal segment which is testaceous, and the more or less obviously 

 testaceous distal margins of the other segments. 



9 . — Somewhat larger ; head rounder, not broader than thorax. 

 Punctures of mesothorax distinct but scattered. The pale markings 

 all yellowish-white instead of yellow. Face dark, clypeus black 

 contrasting with the green upper part of face. An irregularly 

 triangular yellowish-white patch on each lower corner of face 

 between clypeus and orbit. Coxa? black, their ends whitish. Femora 

 black, their tips whitish. Tibia? whitish, middle and hind tibiae 

 largely suffused with black. Dorsum of abdomen with the black 

 nearly covering the segments, leaving transverse white areas or 

 bands, not continued to lateral margin, on segments 2-4. Venter 

 whitish, not banded. 



Hab. — Santa Fe, X, M., close to the Denver & Rio Grande depot, 

 at flowers of Menzelia nuda, Aug. 3, 1895, many specimens. They 

 were associated with Bombus (abundant) and Andrena (rare). 



13. Perdita pallidior n. sp. 



$ . — Resembles the $ of mentzelice, but differs in the cheeks being 

 unarmed beneath, in the smaller head, the second submarginal cell 

 more narrowed above, the legs entirely yellow, the abdomen above 

 orange-yellow, with the first segment nearly all dark brown or 

 black, and a dark brown band on segments 2 and 3, that on 3d fail- 

 ing some distance before the lateral margin. 



9 . — Resembles the 9 of mentzelice, but differs in the legs being 

 all yellowish-white, except a dusky shade on inside of anterior 

 femora, and outside of middle and posterior tibia?. The white sub- 

 triangular marks on sides of face are rather more produced upward 

 along the orbital margin. The abdomen above is yellowish-white, 

 the first segment with a broad brown-black ring, the second and 

 third segments with dark bands, the fourth segment with a pair of 

 dark spots, suffused in outline. 



Hab. — Albuquerque, N. M., close to Prof. Hadley's house, abun- 

 dant on flowers of Mentzelia n uda, Aug. 15, 1895. A single 9 was 

 also swept from Gutierrezia sarothrce (<let. E. O. Wooton) at the 

 same time and place. No other bees were then found upon the 

 Mentzelia, except Perdita pulchrior. On the Gutierrezia were found 

 also Perdita gutierrezia, and P. austini, one each. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



14. Perdita pulchrior n. sp. Fig. 7, (part of wing). 



£ . — Resembles the $ of pallidior, but rather larger and stoutly 



built, with the cheeks armed below with a prominent spine. Head 



large and subquadrate. Second submarginal not so much narrowed 



above. Legs entirely yellow. Abdomen above shiny 



pale orange-yellow, the first segment mostly black, second 



with a pair of dark spots ; no dark bands. The second 



Fig. 7. segment may have its lateral margins also dark, and the 



third segment may show spots. 



Hab. — Albuquerque, N. M., on Mentzelia mt'ia, same time and place 

 as pallidior, two males (Ckll., 4,537, 4,538). On Sept. 12th, I was 

 surprised to take another example, also a male, on Birjelovia wrightii 

 close to the Agricultural College, Las Cruces, X. M. This species 

 may possibly represent a dimorphic $ of "pallidior ; the 9 is either 

 unknown, or not to be separated from those presumably referable to 

 pallidior. 



Four species found on Larrea in A'"' Mexico. 



15. Perdita larreae n. sp. Fig. 8. (stigma etc). 



$ . — Hardly 4 mm. long, bright orange-yellow, smooth and shiny ; 



pubescence consisting of sparse white hairs on vertex, cheeks beneath^ 



mesothorax, pleura, tibia?, tarsi, apex and venter of 



abdomen. Head very large, considerably larger than 



the small thorax, subquadrate ; clypeua produced into 



Fig. 8. a gpine at each lower corner, cheeks with a stout spine 



beneath, eyes rather small and narrow. 



Wings small, hyaline, nervures white, stigma hyaline in middle. 

 Marginal cell narrow but hardly produced beyond stigma, not 

 quite as long as first submarginal, appendiculate. Second submar- 

 ginal very small, triangular, coming to a point at its junction with 

 marginal. First recurrent joining, first transverse cubital. Third 

 discoidal cell wanting. 



The mandibles are elongate, simple, dark at tips. The ocelli are 

 more or less dark, with some dark marbling about them. Tongue 

 about as long as head. 



Hab. — San Marcial, N. M., close to Mr. Shope's house, at flowers 

 of Larrea divaricata var. tridentata, June 28, 1895. Five specimens. 



16. Perdita marcialis n. sp. 



$ . — Size and form of P. larreoz. Anterior margin of clypeus not 

 so broad, with the spines longer and parallel ; whereas in larreoz 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



they are divergent. Wings as in larrece, but the marginal cell 

 rather more produced beyond stigma. A keel between antennae, 

 giving place to a groove running upward to middle ocellus. Color 

 deep orange, with dark markings. A black spot before the upper 

 part of each anterior orbital margin ; a large green-metallic patch 

 on vertex, enclosing the two posterior ocelli, but just escaping the 

 anterior one or only partly enclosing it ; mesothorax shiny metallic 

 olive-green, except rather broad yellow lateral margins ; dorsum of 

 metathorax dark green ; a large round dark patch on sides of thorax 

 beneath. Abdomen above more or less suffused with brown, which 

 is dark at base of first and apex of second segments, and becomes 

 reddish on last two segments. Hind legs tinged with brown. 

 Mandibles simple as in larrece,. 



Hah. — San Marcial, N. M., on Larrea at the same time and place 

 as P. larrece. One specimen. 



17. Perdita larrearum n. sp. 



9 . — 4 mm. long. Head dark brassy-greeu, thorax black, pleura 

 and metathorax bluish, abdomen dark sepia-brown. Head rounded, 

 rather large, vertex conspicuously roughened, cheeks and occiput 

 with a rather dense fringe of white hairs, clypeus and sides of face 

 very narrowly pale yellowish-ferruginous, the pale color continuing 

 along orbital margin some distance above level of antenna?, but so 

 thin that its termination is diffiult to trace. 



Antenna? blackish above, yellowish beneath. 



Tubercles and hind border of prothorax narrowly, yellowish. 

 Anterior portion of mesothorax curiously ornamented with appressed 

 pure white hairs. Mesothorax appearing granular, microscopically 

 reticulate, with very sparse shallow punctures. 



Legs brown, anterior tibia? and tarsi dull yellow. Tegula? yellow- 

 ish-hyaline. Wings hyaline, nervures white or colorless. Marginal 

 cell with its substigmatal portion fully twice as long as the post- 

 stigmatal. Second submarginal triangular, bulging without, nar- 

 rowing to a point at marginal. Third discoidal distinct. 



Abdomen above sepia-brown, the proximal ends of the first two 

 segments slightly yellowish. Venter dull brownish-yellow. 



Hab. — San Marcial, N. M., on Larrea at the same time and place 

 as P. larrece. Three specimens. 



There are three possibilities regarding the last three species : 



(1). That they are three distinct species. 



(2). That the males represent two valid species, and larrearum 

 the 9 of one of them. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



(3). That there is only one species, larrece, mar cia lis being the 

 dimorphic $ and larrearam the normal 9 of the same. 



While I incline to one of the latter suppositions, the difference 

 between the three forms is very great, so that in the absence of 

 further evidence they must be provisionally regarded as species. 



18. Perdita semicserulea n. sp. 



9 . — Length 6 mm. Unusually hairy, the pubescence erect and 

 white. Head of ordinary size, dark greenish-blue, bluer at sides of 

 face, more brassy-green between antennae. Vertex finely rugulose, 

 punctured. Clypeus high, pitch-black, smooth with large moder- 

 ately close punctures. The only face-markings consist of a shining, 

 hairless, bright sulphur-yellow oval patch on each side of the clypeus, 

 separated from the eye margin by a distance at least equal to its 

 own diameter. 



Antenna? dark-brown, scape black, last joint of flagellum becom- 

 ing pale. The antenna? are rather conspicuously enlarged toward 

 their ends. 



Mesothorax and scutellum smooth and shining, but with deep, 

 large and rather close punctures. Thorax all black, except the 

 metathorax which is blue. Pleura with quite long white hairs. 



Teguhe hyaline. Wings milky-hyaline, stigma very pale yellow, 

 hyaline in middle, nervures colorless, costal nervure black. Marginal 

 cell rather short, appendiculate, poststigmatal portion hardly longer 

 than substigmatal. Second submarginal large, narrowed about one- 

 half to marginal. Third discoidal distinct. 



Legs brown-black, a little yellow on anterior tibiae and knees. 



Abdomen shining, brown-black above and beneath. Sides of 

 first segment, and in a less degree those of the others, with tufts of 

 white hairs. Dorsum of last three segments more or less hairy, that 

 of the last one considerably so. 



Hab. — San Marcial, N. M., on Larrea, at the same time and place 

 as P. larrece. One specimen. (Ckll., 3,077). This species is easily 

 recognized by the dark clypeus, with a shining, smooth, yellow spot 

 on each side ofit. It is not nearly related to P. larrece, but rather 

 to P. phijmatu , which, however, has not the yellow spots. 



.1 species with the end of the abdomen rufous, found on Oroton. 



19. Perdita orotonis n. Bp. 



9 . — About 5 mm. long. Head rather broad, shining, dark blue 

 or greenish-blue ; clypeus except two black dots, a transversely 




1896] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



elongate mark adjacent to hind border of clypeus, narrowing medi- 

 ally, and a triangular patch on each side of face, not quite reaching 

 to level of insertion of antennae, white. Mandibles white with rufous 

 tips. Cheeks rather densely white-hairy. Antennae with the scape 

 black above, white beneath ; funicle and flagellum black or very 

 dark brown, last joint of latter pale at tip. Thorax shiny, rather 

 densely pubescent for a Perdita, mesothorax very dark bottle-green, 

 median groove very distinct. Tubercles and posterior median border 

 of prothorax white. Tegulae brownish, with a white spot on ante- 

 rior half. Scutellum quite brassy-green. Metathorax dark blue, 

 distinctly rugulose. Pleura smooth, dark blue. 



Legs white; with the femora except ends, most of hind coxae, a 

 patch behind each of the four anterior tibiae, the hind tibiae except 

 basal third, and the hind tarsi, black. Wings hyaline, nervures 

 fuscous, stigma margined with fuscous. Marginal cell with thepost- 

 stigmatal portion about or hardly as long as the substigmatal ; 

 second submarginal narrowed about one-half to marginal ; third 

 discoidal distinct. 



Abdomen above and below with the last two segments entirely 

 rufous, without markings. Segments 1-3 above white, with black 

 bands at proximal and distal margins of segments, those on proximal 

 margins of segments 2 and 3 very narrow, and that on distal mar- 

 gin of 3d represented only by a line of mottling. (Ckll., 3,262, etc.) 



Mut. 9 . — Clypeus with two longitudinal black lines or bands in 

 addition to the marks above described. (Ckll., 3,259). 



S . — The whole of the face beneath the level of the antennae white, 

 except the two black dots on clypeus. Along the orbits the white 

 is further produced a short distance, rapidly narrowing to a point. 

 Second submarginal narrowed distinctly more than half to marginal. 

 Last three segments of abdomen rufous. Cheeks unarmed. (Ckll., 

 3,261). 



Hub. — Albuquerque, X. M., June 30, 1895, in numbers at flowers 

 of Croton texensis. In August, Miss Myrtle Boyle found a single 

 specimen at La Tenaja, near Santa Fe. I looked for it at Santa Fe, 

 but failed to find it, though the Croton is abundant. 



A small species votih orange or orange-rttfous abdomen found on 

 Chama'saracha. 



20. Perdita chamaesarachae n. sp. 



$ . — 3* mm. long. Head and thorax shining dark blue, abdomen 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



brownish-orange. Vertex granular. Head rounded. Face below 

 antennae yellowish-white, the upper border of the pale color coinci- 

 dent with the lower level of the insertion of the antennse, except 

 that on each side of the dog-ear plate there is a notch formed by an 

 incursion of the dark color. Clypeus with a small black spot on 

 each side. Mandibles rufous at tips. Antennae dark above, below 

 dirty yellowish, the scape whiter. Sides of face with appressed white 

 hairs. Cheeks unarmed, rather densely clothed beneath with erect 

 white hairs. Sides of metathorax, and postscutellum, with similar 

 hairs. Tubercles yellowish-white, tegulae hyaline. Wings hyaline, 

 nervures very pale straw-yellow, third discoidal very weak, second 

 submarginal narrowing about one-half to marginal. Legs pale 

 yellow, a dark patch on anterior femora, and middle and posterior 

 femora and tibiae largely dark. Abdomen above bandless, first 

 segment dark at base. Venter entirely orange. (Ckll., 4,568, etc.). 



9 • — Closely similar, but the dog-ear marks and pale mark above 

 clypeus wanting, i. e., the pale color on face is confined to the clypeus 

 and triangular marks at sides of face. (Ckll., 4,573). 



Hab. — Albuquerque, N. M., in the old town at flowers of Chamee- 

 saracha coronopus, Aug. 16, 1895, abundant. Also at Santa l-\', in 

 the capitol grounds, on flowers of C. coronopus, Aug. 2, 1895, two 

 specimens. At Santa Fe it was associated on the flowers with Halie- 

 tus $ and Collctes. This species resembles P. semicrocea, but that 

 has the face dark in the 9 . 



A species from the transition zone in Nt Mexico, habits unknown. 



21. Perdita foxi Ckll. Proc. Phila. Acad., 1895, p. 18. ? (Hab., Santa F. . N. M. 

 The unique type, taken on June 25th, is only known. The species 



ma) r be known by its orange-rufous legs, and black unhanded 

 abdomen. 



A species found on Sphozralcea, very different in tlie ■•''.res, ranging 

 in modified form over S, 200 feet altitude. 



22. Perdita sphaeralceae n. sp. 



9 . — Length 7 '• mm. Head and thorax dark greenish, abdomen 

 black with three light bands. Head rather small, rounded, some- 

 what broader than long, vertex and occiput dark olive-green, gran- 

 ular ; a shining brassy prominence between the antenna?: clypeus 

 black, shining, sparsely punctured toward the Bides. No pale 

 marks on face, except a small yellow spot on extreme lower corner. 

 Mandibles brownish, ferruginous at apex, sharply and squarely 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



notched on inner side near end, but not actually bifid. Cheeks quite 

 densely hairy. Antenna? dark brown, almost black above. 



Tubercles, and hind border of prothorax more or less, very pale 

 yellowish. Mesothorax bulging in front, not very shiny, dark brassy, 

 hardly green, quite pubescent with erect whitish hairs. Sides of 

 metathorax with tufts of hairs, but postscutellum not conspicuously 

 hairy. 



Tegula hyaline. Wings hyaline, nervures very pale yellowish, 

 almost colorless, stigma margined with brown. Marginal cell rather 

 long, poststigmatal portion distinctly longer than substigmatal. First 

 submarginal not nearly so large as first discoidal. Second sub- 

 marginal large, narrowing hardly one-half to marginal. Third dis- 

 coidal quite distinct. 



Legs black ; anterior knees, anterior tibia' in front, middle tibia? 

 at tip behind, dull yellow. Abdomen rather narrow, black ; second, 

 third and fourth segments at base with a broad pale yellowish band, 

 slightly notched in middle behind. Venter dark brown. The 

 abdominal bands have a slightly greenish tint, so that when the 

 insect is alive on the flowers it rather suggests a miniature Xomia 

 similar to N. punctata. 



$ . — Length 6 mm. Cheeks unarmed. Light markings all deep 

 saffron-yellow, instead of pale greenish-yellow. Mandibles simple, 

 yellow with ferruginous tips. Face beneath antenna? all yellow, 

 except two black dots on clypeus, the yellow moreover extending 

 upward at sides of face, coming to a point at an angle of about 50°, 

 not quite so far up as the length of the scape above level of insertion 

 of antenna?. Antenna; yellow ; funicle, flagellum and end of scape 

 above, dark brown. 



Yellow hind margin of prothorax connecting with yellow tuber- 

 cles. Legs yellow; part of middle coxa, posterior coxa except ends 

 and a spot behind, a large patch on anterior and middle femora 

 behind, a patch on both sides of hind femora, a large patch on 

 middle tibia, and outer side of hind tibia and tarsi, black. Pleura 

 with a round yellow patch, not very conspicuous, in front. 



Abdomen above shining, dark brown, with rather broad yellow 

 bands at proximal margins of segments 2-5, that on 4 narrowest, 

 that on 5 broadest, and notched behind medially. Sixth segment 

 dull rufous with a brown rather suffused band. Venter dull orange. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., common at flowers of Spharalcea an- 

 gustifolia, middle of August to middle of September, 1895. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



P. sphseralceae, race alticola. 



9 . — Nervures dark brown. A light spot on each side of 5th 

 abdominal segment. (Ckll., 3,850). The spots on 5th segment may 

 be absent as in the type. 



£ . — Nervures dark, as in the 9 . The dog-ear marks have more 

 or less of a dark border below. 



Mut. suffusa. £ . — Abdomen above suffused with brown, only 

 the yellow bands on segments 2 and 3 remaining. Dog-ear marks 

 reduced, their lower half often wanting. 



Mut. 9 . — Only 6 mm. long. Abdominal bands narrow, that on 

 segment 5th present though interrupted in the middle. (Ckll., 3,849). 

 This may be the proper 9 of mut. suffusa. 



Hab. — Santa Fe, N. M., common at flowers of Sphceralcea angus- 

 tifolia; the males much more frequent than the females. The 

 species was first taken in Mr. Boyle's garden on July 25, 1895; 2 

 normal £ alticola, 2 £ suffusa. On July 27th were taken several 

 males, about equally divided between alticola proper and suffusa, 

 and also two females. The latest date I have is Aug. 8th, a 9 taken 

 by Miss Myrtle Boyle. The £ differs from zebrata £ by its very 

 dark (not bluish) thorax, much yellower light markings, darker 

 stigma, and rather differently shaped face-markings. 



A specie* found on Cleome serrulata (C integrifolia). 



23. Perdita zebrata Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, L878, p. 69. 9 (Ilab., Colorado!. 



£ Perdita canina Ckll., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1895, p. 17. I Bab., Sauta IV. X. M.). 

 Figs. 9, 10, (face-marks and f genitalia). 



Originally described from seven specimens taken by Ridings and 

 Morrison. The £ was not known until described by me as canina. 

 My No. 1,270 (1. c, p. 18) proves to have been the true 9 , and is 

 identical with at least some of Cresson'e types 

 of zebrata, though it is possible that under 

 this name more than one species was in- 

 cluded. The matter is complicated from the 

 variability of 9 zebrata on the one hand, 

 and the discovery of 1'. bakerce on the other, 

 the latter species being easily distinguished 

 in the £ , but only with ex- v_ 



treme difficulty in the 9 • 

 Mr. Fox has sent me a 9 

 Fir, io. f ze l ra ta \\ om the Magdalena FlG - 9 - 



Mts., N. M., Aug., 1894, collected by Snow. M r. C. F. Baker seuds 



Jdf 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



it from Fort Collins, Colorado, where it was collected in August ; 

 this is the most northern locality known for it. The most southern 

 locality is Alma, Socorro Co., N. M., where it was found by Mr. 

 Alfred Holt. I have myself collected it as follows: 



(1). Albuquerque, June 30th and Aug. 16,1895. (2). Lamy, N. 

 M., July 2d and July 13th. (3). Santa Fe, N. M., July 5th to 

 Aug. 3d. (4). Watrous, N. M., July 13th. (5). Las Vegas, N. 

 M., July. (6). La Junta, Colo., July. 



Everywhere it is found in great abundance on flowers of Cleome 

 serrulata, and on nothing else ; whereas the closely allied P. bakerce 

 is found on Solidago. On July 12th, at Santa Fe, I saw them settle 

 on the stamens of the Cleome, climb to the top, and collect the pollen. 

 At Watrous I saw one inserting its tongue in the base of the flower, 

 running down the inner surface of the petals. 



In the $ s the face-markings are very constant, but frequently the 

 light bands of the abdomen will be interrupted on segments 3 and 4. 

 The 9 s vary much in the clypeal marks, from no marks on the 

 clypeus but the usual pair of dots, to two black bars or even an 

 almost wholly black clypeus. These variations do not seem to have 

 any reference to the environment. 



Mr. Fox has examined for me all Cresson's type specimens of 

 zebrata ( 9 ) and reports that they have the supraclypeal spot 

 notched above, except one, which has it divided in two. This last 

 was the one Cresson actually had in hand when describing, as may 

 be seen from his description. The clypeus in four specimens is bi- 

 spotted with black, in one entirely yellow. 



A species very like P. zebrata, found on Solidago in Colorado. 

 24. Perdita bakerae n. sp. or race. Figs. 11, 12, (head and $ genitalia). 



$. — Like the £ of P. zebrata, but seems to average smaller, the 

 pale bands of the abdomen are small and interrupted, at least on 

 the third and fourth segments, and the supraclypeal mark is nearly 

 twice as broad as long. Sometimes the abdominal bands are entire, 

 but the supraclypeal mark still affords a distinguishing character. 



9 • — Seems to differ only from 9 zebrata in its broader supra- 

 clypeal mark, notched in the middle. 



Hab.— Fort Collins, Colorado, 12 $, 3 9, sent by Mr. C. F. 

 Baker. They were collected as follows: (1). On Solidago canad- 

 ensis, Aug. 8, 1895, both sexes. (2). On Solidago canadensis, Aug. 

 15, 1895, a $ . (3). On sticky flower-buds of Helianthus annuus, 

 Aug. 20, 1895, two Ss. 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



When Mr. Baker sent me this species, with the statement that it 

 was found on Solidago, I could hardly believe there had not been 

 some mistake, as it so nearly resembled P. zebrata, which I have 



Fig. 12. Fig. 11. 



found always on Cleome, never on Solidago. Mr. Baker, however, 

 assures me that there has been no mistake ; and on re-examining the 

 series I find that it differs from zebrata, in the males at least, by the 

 average greater reduction of the pale bands of the abdomen, and 

 constantly in the broader supraclypeal mark. We thus appear to 

 have a species in the early stages of differentiation, perhaps hardly 

 to be regarded as more than a race of zebrata. I have taken the 

 liberty of naming it after Mrs. Baker, who has collected part of the 

 material received from Fort Collins. 



Since the above was written, I have examined the <? genitalia of 

 canina (zebrata) and bakerce, and find apparently good distinctions. 

 See fig. 12. 



Three species found on Solidago in Colorado, one being also found 

 at Santa Fe, N. M. 

 25. Perdita affinis Cr„ Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1878, p. 69. ' $ illab.. Colorado). 



Five specimens were collected by Ridings ; I have examined one 

 of the types. Mr. Baker sends me two 9 s taken at Fort Collins, 

 Colo., one on Aug. 8th, the other on Aug. 15, 1895. The latter was 

 on Solidago canadensis. 



Cresson's description is not entirely satisfactory. # The nervures 

 and stigma (except the hyaline centre) are dark. The elypeus in 

 Mr. Baker's examples has two black bars ; in the type specimen 

 examined these bars are present, though not so much developed. 



The vertex and mesothorax are dark green, granular, dull. The 

 clypeus is not hairy. The wings are slightly smoky : the marginal 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



cell has the poststigmatal portion appreciably longer than the sub- 

 stigmatal, the third discoidal is distinct. 



From P. pedidis, it differs thus : 



(1). Larger, mesothorax dull, granulated, markings of face and 

 abdomen yellowish, =affinis 9 • 



(2). Smaller, mesothorax smooth, very shiny, markings of face 

 and abdomen white, ..... — pedidis 9 • 



In its face-markings, dull mesothorax and dark nervures P. 

 affinis 9 agrees precisely with odomaculata 9 , but it differs thus : 



(1). Larger, markings of abdomen chrome-yellow, wings tinged 

 smoky or yellowish, .... =octomaculata 9 • 



(2). Smaller, markings of abdomen creamy or yellowish-white, 

 wings clear or nearly so, . . . . =affinis 9 • 



I have not seen the $ of affinis. Mr. Fox kindly sends me a 

 sketch of the face-markings, showing the face all yellow below the 

 level of the antennse, the yellow extending above in the median line 

 as a small rounded projection, and at the sides obliquely from the 

 antennal sockets to the orbital margin, where it ends at an angle 

 of about 50°. Thus the face-markings of affinis $ differ at once 

 from those of octomaculata £ , which has the yellow confined to 

 clypeus and sides of face, except a couple of small spots or streaks 

 in the place of the supraclypeal mark. 



26. Perdita sexmaculataCkll., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1S95, p. 12. ? (Hab., Santa FS, 



N. M.). 



The unique type was taken on July 25th ; it could hardly have been 

 on Solidago, which would not, I think, be in flower at Santa Fe at 

 that time. I have a note in my diary that on Aug. 2, 1895, Solid- 

 ago canadensis was only beginning to flower, and was visited by a 

 few Halidus. The form found on Solidago in Colorado represents 

 a variety, as follows : 

 Yar. punotata ? . 



Length about 6 mm. ; abdomen with only 4 pale dots, on segments 

 3 and 4. As it is possible that this will prove to be a distinct 

 species when a good series is collected, the following additional 

 particulars are offered : 



Head and thorax greenish-black, metathorax blue-black. Man- 

 dibles yellowish with rufous tips. Face and mesothorax very little 

 hairy. Vertex and mesothorax granular, quite distinctly dark 

 greenish. Clypeus black, minutely granular, sparsely and irregu- 

 larly punctate. Scutellum with the granulations becoming obsolete 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



on the shining disc. Wings slightly smoky, nervures and stigma 

 dark brown, stigma not hyaline in middle. Marginal cell short, 

 distinctly appendiculate, the poststigmatal portion shorter than the 

 substigmatal. Recurrent and transverse cubital nervures broken by 

 hyaline dots. Third discoidal distinct. Cubital and subdiscoidal 

 nervures produced far beyond the cells, the latter to the margin of 

 the wing. Four middle tarsi rufotestaceous, as also the anterior 

 knees, and anterior tibiae before. The light dots on abdomen are 

 inconspicuous, so that it appears at first sight immaculate brown- 

 black. 



Hab. — Fort Collins, Colorado, Aug. 8, 1895, on Solidago canaden- 

 sis; one example, sent by Mr. Baker. The head is shorter than in 

 affinis, and the pale face-marks are wanting ; the marginal cell is 

 also shorter. 

 27. Perdita rectangulata n. sp. Fig. 13, i face-marks). 



9 . — About oh mm. long. Head and thorax dark brassy-green, 

 granular, dull ; metathorax bluish. Head of ordinary shape and 

 size. Clypeus, supraclypeal mark, lateral face-marks, and spot mid- 

 wav between antenna? and middle ocellus, lemon-yellow. Between 

 the supraclypeal mark and the frontal spot, the usual facial keel is 

 well-developed, slightly intruding into the spot. The supraclypeal 

 mark is approximately rectangular, clear cut, about twice as broad 

 as long. The dots on the clypeus are obscure. The lateral face- 

 in :irks are broad at base, reaching the point on the cly- 

 peus next to the dot, gradually narrowing upward, un- 

 til at a point about level with the upper edge of the 

 antennal sockets they are squarely truncate nearly to 

 ■p , the orbital margin, but still are continued upward along 

 the latter as a narrow stripe a little longer than the 

 width at the truncation. The clypeus is rather of the Panama-hat 

 type, with the lateral narrow prolongation to the base of the mandi- 

 bles, but the central portion (crown of the hat) is higher. The face 

 is nearly hairless. Mandibles stout, simple, curved, pale yellow 

 with dark tips. 



Antenna* with the scape entirely yellow ; funicle and flagellum 

 dark brown above, yellow below. 



Mesothorax moderately hairy for a Perdita. Collar, hind border 

 of prothorax and tubercles connecting with it, yellow. Tegulse 

 yellowish-hyaline. Wings hyaline, nervures and stigma pale yel- 

 low ; marginal cell with the poststigmatal portion longest ; 3d sub- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



marginal large, narrowed more than half to the marginal ; 3d dis- 

 coidal distinct. Legs yellow, tarsi pale testaceous ; spot on middle 

 femora and tibia?, a large blotch on hind femora, and hind tibiae 

 except basal third, black. 



Abdomen above lemon-yellow, the last segment slightly orange. 

 First segment with two black spots ; rather broad black bands at 

 hind margins of segments 1-4, intruding a little, especially at sides, 

 on the base of the segment following, not at all notched, nor joined 

 together. Venter yellow without bands. 



$ . — Differs as follows : Scape with a small black stripe above. 

 Face below antenna? all yellow, owing to the space beneath the 

 antenna being filled in by well-developed dog-ear marks, and to the 

 supraclypeal mark being higher. The lateral face-marks are rather 

 obliquely (not squarely) truncate, and are scarcely at all produced 

 along the orbital margin above the truncation. The frontal pale 

 spot is wanting. The collar is not yellow, and the yellow border of 

 prothorax is reduced to two marks, the tubercles also remaining 

 yellow. The nervures and stigma are dark brown, the marginal 

 cell is longer, and the second submarginal less narrowed above. 

 Legs black, with the knees and anterior femora and tibia? in front, 

 yellow. The abdomen is black, with orange or yellow clean-cut 

 interrupted bands on segments 1-4. Venter dark. The cheeks are 

 unarmed. 



Hab. — Fort Collins, Colorado, Aug. 15, 1895, on Solidago cana- 

 densis; one $ , one $ , sent by Mr. Baker. The <? is so different 

 from the 9 , that it may be a distinct species ; but the face-markings 

 are exactly such as might belong to the sexes of a species, and there 

 are several points of similarity in structure. In a case of this sort, 

 one decides partly by the circumstances of the capture, the two sexes 

 having been taken from the same flowers on the same day. 



Three other species from Colorado, habits unknown. 



28. Perdita snowii n. sp. 



9 . — Length 5-i mm. Head and thorax dark brassy-green, dull 

 and granular, metathorax bluish and more shining. Head fairly 

 large, approximately round ; face very little hairy, although the 

 mesothorax and other parts of thorax are quite hairy, the hairs 

 being of a pale brownish color, dirty white on the under parts. 

 Mandibles stout, simple, yellowish with rufous ends. Antenna? dark 

 brown, scape pale beneath. Clypeus, and sides of face rather nar- 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



rowly up to level of antenna?, dull pale yellowish. The face-marks 

 at sides are abruptly truncate at their upper end, the truncation a 

 little oblique. Supraclypeal and dog-ear marks wanting. Tuber- 

 cles and two spots on hind border of prothorax, pale yellowish or 

 subtestaceous. Wings dull hyaline, iridescent, nervures and stigma 

 rather dark yellowish-brown, stigma centrally subhyaline. Mar- 

 ginal cell large, appendiculate, poststigmatal portion longest. Second 

 submarginal large, narrowed more than one-half to marginal ; 3d 

 discoidal distinct. Tegula? hyaline. 



Legs brown-black, hairy; anterior femora at ends, and anterior 

 tibia?, except a patch behind, yellow ; anterior tarsi, middle and 

 hind knees, and much of middle tibiae, yellowish testaceous. Hind 

 tibia? in the type specimen with a mass of dull orange pollen. 



Abdomen above dull brownish-white ; first segment black at base ; 

 segments 1-4 with broad brown-black bands on their hind halves, 

 these bands not at all interrupted, those on segments 2-3 conspicu- 

 ously thickest in the middle, those on 1-2 joined laterally by a 

 longitudinal line ; 5th segment hairy, with a rudimentary band. 

 Venter brown. 



Hab— Estes Park, Colorado, August, 1892 (F. H. Snow, No. 

 210). One specimen, sent by Mr. Fox. The abdomen may have 

 been more brightly colored in life. P. snowii, differs from nitidella 

 9 at once by its dull hairy mesothorax ; from bigelovice 9 it differs 

 in shape of lateral marks of face, as well as in abdomen. 

 29. Perdita luteiceps n. ap. 



$ . — Length about 5 mm. Cheeks unarmed. Head moderately 

 large, rounded, somewhat broader than long, deep yellow with dark 

 green markings. There is a spot close to each anterior orbital mar- 

 gin above the level of the antenna? (as in punctosignata'), the ocelli 

 are situated on an irregular transverse dark patch, and the occiput 

 is dark, from it also coming a narrow dark stripe toward, but not 

 reaching, the upper end of the eye. Labnmi and mandibles yellow. 



Antenna? yellow, fuuicle with a black patch above, joints of 

 flagelluni slightly darkened above. 



Thorax dark bronzy -green, very granular, moderately dull, meta- 

 thorax a bluer green. Prothorax yellow except a transverse dark 

 stripe. A transverse yellow patch near hind border of mesothorax, 

 and a little yellow along hind border of scutellum. Pleura hairy, 

 dark with a moderately small yellow patch. Mesothorax hairy in 

 front, nearly hairless behind. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Tegulae yellowish hyaline. Wings hyaline, nervures and stigma 

 (except its hyaline centre) very pale yellow. Marginal cell rather 

 long, substigraatal portion about as long as poststigmatal ; a linear 

 appendiculate nervure longer than the marginal itself; 2d sub- 

 marginal rather large, narrowed a little more than half to marginal ; 

 3d discoidal distinct. 



Legs yellow ; a blackish patch on middle femora and tibiae be- 

 behind, hind legs blackish except knees. 



Abdomen above yellow ; first segment narrowly dark at base ; at 

 the sutures of all the segments is a narrow black band, which takes 

 the form of two transversely elongate spots on the hind margin of 

 each segment, adjacent to a narrow entire band on anterior margin 

 of the next. None of the bands are united laterally. The yellow 

 is much more developed in proportion to the black than in martini. 

 Venter yellow, immaculate. 



Hab. — Glenwood Springs, Colorado, Aug. 24, 1894. Collected by 

 Prof. Gillette ; sent to me by Mr. Fox. The unique specimen is 

 unfortunately reddened by cyanide. P. luteiceps is very near martini, 

 but differs by the brassy-green (not blue) thorax, the vertex with a 

 transverse yellow band above the ocelli, and in the greater develop- 

 ment of yellow on the abdomen. It is to be added that martini is a 

 spring species, while luteiceps was caught in late summer. It is 

 curious that among the numerous late summer species of Perdita at 

 Las Cruces, the locality of martini, none resemble it so closely as 

 luteiceps. 



30. Perdita dubia n. sp. 



$. — About or slightly over 5 mm. long, Very like the $ of 

 bakerce or zebrata, resembling them in the shining mesothorax, color 

 of head and thorax, face-markings, etc. The mesothorax is a rather 

 yellower-green. The supraclypeal mark is heart-shaped with the 

 apex cut off, thus differently shaped from that of bakerce or zebrata, 

 but nearest to zebrata. The dog-ear marks are a little reduced, 

 leaving a perceptible amount of dark color between them and the 

 clypeus. The lateral face-mark, formed as in zebrata, presents an 

 obscure dark streak on its upper portion. The sides of the face are 

 more hairy than in zebrata or bakerce. The cheeks are very hairy. 

 The labrum presents a conspicuous pit. The thorax is rather more 

 hairy than in bakerai or zebrata. The posterior and middle femora 

 are entirely yellow, except for the slightest indication of black on 

 the posterior ones; otherwise the legs resemble those of bakerce. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Wings hyaline, nervures sepia-brown, stigma hyaline in middle. 

 The marginal cell is distinctly longer than in bakeroz or zebrata, and 

 has the poststigmatal portion longest. Second submarginal large, 

 narrowed one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal absent. 



Abdomen above with nearly equally broad bands of yellow and 

 black. First segment all black ; then follow four black bands at 

 the junction of the segments, none interrupted, nor joined at the 

 middle or the sides. Tip blackish. Venter yellow, with a little 

 black along the sutures. 



Hub. — Glenwood Springs, Colorado, Aug. 24, 1894. Collected by 

 Prof. Gillette, sent by Mr. Fox. Like the last, taken at the same 

 time, it is reddened by cyanide. It is unfortunate that we know 

 nothing about the habits of this species, and have only a single 

 specimen. It will be recognized by the regular entire abdominal 

 bands, the coloration of the legs, etc. 



A species from California, habitat unknown, t unknown. 

 31. Perdita trisignata n. sp. Fig. 14, (face-marks). 



9 . — Length about 51 mm. Head and thorax blue-black or 

 greenish-black, the tint difficult to define. Head of ordinary size, 

 nearly round, somewhat depressed on vertex ; face very sparsely 

 hairy, cheeks not so hairy as in many species. Vertex dull and 

 verv distinctly granulose. Middle ocellus in a distinct depression. 

 Mandibles stout, yellowish, with rufous tips and bases. Clypeus 

 brown-black, contrasting with the distinctly green face above it ; in 

 shape high, something like a cocked-hat. Face-markings pale lemon- 

 yellow, consisting of a longitudinal median stripe on clypeus, start- 

 ing from its hind-border but not reaching its anterior border ; and 

 the lateral marks, elongate-pyriform, with the upper end pointed 

 and level with the sockets of the antenna?. Theclypeal 

 mark suggests that of obscurata. Antenna' dark brown. 

 Mesothorax only sparsely hairy, distinctly granular 

 and punctured, the punctures sparse but distinct. 

 Fig 14 Metathorax granular, very dull, duller than scutellum 

 and postscutellum. Pleura hairy, with white hairs. 

 Tubercles and two spots on hind margin of prothorax yellow. 

 Teguhe testaceous, subhyaline. 



AVings rather small, yellowish-hvaline, nervures and stigma tes- 

 taceous. Stigma small and narrow ; marginal cell very large, post- 

 stigmatal portion noticeably longest. Second submarginal la 

 narrowed more than one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Legs dark brown with the tarsi testaceous ; anterior and middle 

 tibiae in front, and corresponding knees, dull yellow. Abdomen 

 above and below dark reddish-brown, without markings. 



Hab. — California, collector and exact locality unknown ; sent by 

 Mr. Fox. One specimen, known by the yellowish wings, abdomen 

 without markings, etc. 



Two species described by F. Smith, exact locality and habits unknown. 



32. Perdita halictoides Sm., Br. Mus. Cat., Vol. I, p. 128, (1853). ? (Hab. North 



America i. 



The description indicates that this species is similar to P. semicro- 

 cea, but differs in having the nervures fuscous (in semicrocea they 

 are colorless), the abdomen dark testaceous, and the legs rufotesta- 

 ceous with the tarsi pale. 



33. Perdita bicolor (Sm.). 



Macrotera 6ico/orSw.,Br. Mus. Cat., Vol. I, p. 130, (1853). "$" (Hab. Mexico). 



The description shows that this species is twice as large as the 

 last, the head and thorax black and the abdomen ferruginous, more 

 or less fuscous at base. It might, perhaps, be confused with M. texana, 

 but the abdomen is elongate-ovate and the mandibles are rounded at 

 their apex, simple. The wing nervures are ferruginous. P. texana 

 has a ferruginous abdomen only in the $ . 



As the description of this insect did not enable me to ascertain 

 definitely whether it belonged to the group (or genus) of P. texana 

 = megacephala and P. latior, I applied to Mr. E. A. Smith, of the 

 British Museum, asking him to kindly examine his father's type, 

 and report on certain points specified. He handed my letter to Lt. 

 Col. Bingham, who very kindly examined the typical specimen, and 

 reported as follows : 



" 1. The type is a $ , not a 9 . It has the two basal segments fus- 

 cous, the 3d and following segments ferruginous, with the apical one, 

 which is very small and somewhat hidden by the fimbria of pale 

 hairs on the posterior margin of the 6th segment, black. 



" 2. The mandibles are deeply grooved on the outside from near 

 the base to the apex, which, however, does not appear to be bifid. 



"3. The figure of the marginal cell given in Part 1, pi. V,"f. 22, 

 of Smith's Catalogue, is fairly good, the cell may be a little more 

 obliquely truncate at apex, perhaps. 



" 4. From Cresson's description of M. megacephala $ , Smith's 

 type of bicolor differs as noted above in the basal segments of the 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



abdomen being fuscous, and in the posterior tibia? being clothed with 

 a ' a thin scopa ' of pale yellow pubescence, as Smith described, 

 which has now faded to a dirty white." 



While I am not yet certain, I am decidedly inclined to suppose 

 that we may after all recognize Macrotera as a valid genus, with 

 these species, M. bicolor Sm., M. texana Cr., and M. latior (Ckll.). 



A species from Nevada, yellow with black markings, habits unknown, 

 $ unknown. 



34. Perdita cephalotes (Cr.) Cr., Cat. Hyin., 1887, p. 296. 



Macrotera cephalotes Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1878, p. 7 1 . f ( Hab. Nevada). 



Described from a single specimen, collected by Mr. Hy. Edwards. 

 It has a very large head, after the manner of grand 'iceps and crassi- 

 ceps, but the markings are very like those of punctosignata. 



Two specimens were obtained by the Death Valley Expedition in 

 the Panamiut Mountains. (N. Amer. Fauna, No. 7, 1893, p. 246). 



Two species found on mesquite in New Mexico. 



35. Perdita punctosignata Ckll., S u j > j ■ t . to Psyche, Sept., 1895, p. 6. f. i Ilab. Las 

 Cruces, N. M. I. 



Two specimens are known, both from mesquite; one taken by 

 Miss J. Casad, the other by Mr. Alfred M. Holt. The latter speci- 

 men has a large yellow patch on dorsum of metathorax, instead of 

 two spots. The eyes are pale coffee-color with a purplish tint. 



36. Perdita exclamans (Ckll.). 



Perdita nitideUaixt. «:£/awttm$CklL,Suppl. to Psyche, Sept., 1895, p. 5. p. t Hab. 



Las Cruces, N. M . . 



This and the last are spring species, found in May. P. nitidella, 

 which frequents Bigelovia in the late summer and early autumn, i- 

 unquestionably distinct from exclamans. Of the latter we know 

 four specimens, 3 6* , 1 $ . Prof. Townsend took a $ some years 

 ago; this is the specimen formerly reported in error as nitidella. 

 Miss Casad found the type specimen, and the other two were ob- 

 tained at the same locality by Mr. A. M. Holt in 1895, a $ on a 

 young cottouwood tree, not in flower, and near some mesquite 

 bushes, May 9th, and a 9 on mesquite, May 13th. 



The 9 may be described as follows : 



9 . — Larger, about 6 mm. long. Antenna' dark brown above, 

 yellow beneath. Clypeus cocked-hat shape, flattened above, very 

 pale yellowish with the usual two dark dots. Supraclvpeal yellow 

 mark well-developed, produced above into a narrow stripe widening 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ?!> 



into a large frontal patch, so that the whole has the shape of an 

 hour-glass. The frontal patch is separated by a moderately wide 

 interval from the anterior ocellus. Dog-ear marks present but 

 small, their tips about level with the top of the clypeus. Lateral 

 face-marks receding from the clypeus close to the dark dots, leaving 

 a wide band of dark color between them and the upper part of the 

 clypeus, etc. ; at the level of the antennal sockets they are suddenly 

 narrowed, ascending the orbital margin as a thin band, rather sud- 

 denly widening opposite the middle of the frontal patch, and termi- 

 nating roundly and abruptly at the level of the hind margin of the 

 anterior ocellus. Lower part of cheeks pale yellow. 



Prothorax and narrow lateral borders of mesothorax yellow- 

 Pleura entirely dark. Metathorax blue, rugulose, contrasting with 

 the scutellum, postscutellum and mesothorax, which are brassy- 

 greenish, very smooth, shining, polished, the scutellum with distinct 

 sparse punctures. The vertex is green, but rugulose and punctured. 

 Legs as in $ , but hind tibia and tarsus all brown. Wings with 3d 

 discoidal cell distinct ; 2d submarginal narrowed less than half to 

 marginal. 



Abdomen above yellow ; markings dark sepia, first segment dark 

 at base, connecting with a blotch on each side, hind margins of seg- 

 ments 1-4 with dark bands, connecting laterally with a spot on 

 proximal margins of 3 and 4, but these spots lacking on fifth seg- 

 ment, while the bands on 1 and 2 are broadly confluent along lateral 

 margin. Vertex yellow, immaculate. 



This is very different from the 9 of nitidella. 



Two species found in spring in the Mesilla Valley, N. M., habits 

 Unknown, 9 unknown. 



37. Perdita martini Ckll.. Proc. Phila. Acad.. 1S9.5, p. 14. $. (Hab. Las Cruces, 



N. M.). 



The unique specimen was taken on April 26th. 



38. Perdita hirsuta n. sp. 



$ . — Length about 5 mm. Head and thorax blue, granular, 

 unusually hairy with white hairs, but the disc of metathorax, and 

 yellow face below antenna?, bare. Head of ordinary size, rounded, 

 a little broader than long; cheeks unarmed. Face just above the 

 level of the antennae conspicuously hairy, the hairs arranged so as to 

 appear to radiate from the antennae. Antennae black above, yellow 

 beneath, the scape with only a black blotch above. Mandibles very 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



straight, very pale yellowish with rufescent tips. Clypeus rather 

 cocked-hat shape, flattened above, with the sides very rapidly de- 

 scending and the prolongation to the base of mandibles very nar- 

 row. Face below antennae all lemon-yellow, except the usual cly- 

 peal dots. Above the antennae the yellow extends only as a small 

 projection in the median line, and a little along the orbits, so that 

 the upper angle of the yellow with the orbital margin is about 

 50° instead of a right angle. Lower half of the cheeks with a yel- 

 low band along orbital margin. 



Collar and hind margin of prothorax connecting with tubercles 

 but failing in the middle line, yellow. Tegulae hyaline. Wings 

 hyaline, nervures sepia-brown, stigma margined with brown. Mar- 

 ginal cell moderately long, appendiculate, the poststigmatal portion 

 about as long as substigmatal. Second submarginal not narrowing 

 quite one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal fairly distinct. Legs yel- 

 low, anterior and middle femora and tibiae with a black patch be- 

 hind, hind femora and tibiae black with a yellow stripe in front, hind 

 tarsi blackish. 



Abdomen above with about equally broad bands of black and 

 yellow. First segment basally black. The five dark bands are not 

 interrupted, nor joined medially or laterally. Sixth segment with 

 three dark spots. Venter yellow, immaculate. 



Hab— Las Cruces, N. M., on the College Farm, May 2d, 1895. 

 One specimen collected by A. M. Holt. 



Tiro species found <>n willow in tin .]f>.<illn Valley, A. M. 



39. Perdita numerata (UI1., Tr. Am. Ent. Soo., L895, y. 296. 9. (Hub. Las I 

 N. M.). 



One specimen is known, taken on May 2d, associated with P. 

 salicis. It resembles most the 9 of bigelovue, but the stigma is 

 entirely dark and the clypeus has two broad black bars. The mar- 

 ginal cell is short, appendiculate ; the 2d submarginal is large, very 

 broad below, narrowed considerably more than half to marginal. 



40. Perdita salicis d. sp. 



9 . — Length 5 mm. Head and thorax shining dark green ; head 

 bluish-green, mesothorax and scutellum bra>sy-green, metathorax 

 dark blue. Head rounded, of ordinary size; vertex minutely 

 roughened, cheeks only sparsely hairy ; clypeus except two black 

 dots, the area between clypeus and antennas, and sides of face nar- 

 rowly terminating in an acute point about half the length of the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Si 



scape above the level of insertion of antenna?, dull pale yellow. In 

 the median line the pale color is sometimes carried upward as a 

 narrow stripe about two-thirds of the distance between insertion of 

 antenna? and middle ocellus. Mandibles simple, unusually stout, 

 blunt at tips, dull pale yellowish with rufous ends. Mouth parts 

 only moderately elongated. Antenna? black above, yellow beneath, 

 the yellow predominating on scape, the black on flagellum. 



Mesothorax very shiny, sparsely punctured. Prothorax includ- 

 ing tubercles either entirely yellow, or the anterior and posterior 

 borders broadly yellow, leaving a narrow transverse dark band. 

 Legs entirely yellow, except hind tibia? and tarsi, which are brown- 

 ish. The middle tibia? sometimes show a brown patch. 



Tegula? yellowish hyaline. Wings hyaline, costal nervure and 

 margin of stigma dark brown, the other nervures practically color- 

 less. Marginal cell rather obliquely truncate, the substigmatal 

 portion about as long as poststigmatal ; 2d submarginal not or 

 hardly narrowed one-half to marginal, the degree of narrowing 

 variable; 3d discoidal distinct. Abdomen above black, with five 

 very regular yellow bands, the first slightly interrupted. The black 

 and yellow are nearly of equal width, so that the abdomen might be 

 said to be alternately black and yellow-banded. Venter entirely 

 yellow with an orange tinge. 



$ . — Length 4 mm. Cheeks unarmed. More pubescent, antenna? 

 more yellow. Mandibles pointed but not slender, the shining 

 rufous tips very distinctly separated from the yellowish portion. 



Face all pale yellow up to level of antenna?, the yellow extending 

 further upward, in the median line as a narrow mark of the shape 

 of a spear-head, scarcely the length of the scape, and at the sides 

 about the length of the scape along orbital margin, but very obliquely 

 truncate, and notched on its inner side below the truncation. Pro- 

 thorax with more black. Mesothorax and scutellum bluer. Hind 

 femora with a dark brown patch near the end. Nervures brown ; 

 3d discoidal very indistinct. 



Abdomen above with only four bands ; these narrower, and 

 divided or deeply notched in middle. Sometimes the abdomen has 

 only three bands. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., in the town, numerous at flowers of 

 narrow-leaved willow and another species of willow, May 2, May 3, 

 May 5, 1895. They are associated on the willows with Halictus, 

 Andrena and Prosopis. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The small *pecies of the Pedis and Cladothrix. 



41. Perdita cladothricis n. ,=p. 



9 • — Length 3|-3§ mm. Head and thorax shining, very dark 

 a?neous, face entirely dark, clypeus and metathorax hlack. Abdo- 

 men dark sepia-brown, with a transversely elongate mark or band 

 of white at base of second segment. Legs dark brown, the anterior 

 knees and the tarsi, pale or whitish. Antennae dark brown. Vertex 

 very minutely sculptured. The usual pale hairs are very little de- 

 veloped anywhere, except at sides of end of abdomen ; the post- 

 scutellum and the sides of the metathorax are bare and shining. 

 Wings hyaline, beautifully iridescent, nervures fuscous, stigma pale 

 brown, 3d discoidal cell distinct, marginal with the substigmatal 

 portion longer than the poststigmatal, 1st submarginal broad, 2d 

 submarginal small and triangular, narrowing to a point at junction 

 with marginal. 



<? . — Length 2 3 —3 mm. Cheeks unarmed. 'Differs from the female 

 at once by the face, which (with the mandibles except their reddish 

 tips) is entirely ivory-white below level of antenna?, the white more- 

 over extending a short distance above the antenna?, in the form of a 

 narrow line between them, and a broad prolongation on each side 

 between the antenna? and the orbits, not quite as long as the scape, 

 and ending in an abrupt truncation. The antenna? are mainly white 

 beneath. The tubercles, and the border of prothorax adjacent and 

 in front, and a portion of the anterior part of the pleura, are white. 

 The coxa?, a considerable portion of the anterior and middle femora, 

 and part of the anterior tarsi, are white. 



The abdomen, in addition to the white band of the 9 > usually 

 shows a longer and narrower white band at base of 3d segment. 

 Venter dirty whitish, becoming brown at base and apex. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., very abundant on Cladothrix cn/ptan- 

 tha (det. E. O. Wooton), Sept. 15, 1895. On this occasion I took 6 

 <T, 12 9 ; I do not think the males were really less numerous, but 

 owing to their small size and incessant activity they were less easily 

 caught than the females. The earliest date I have for this species 

 is a $ taken on Cladothrix, associated with a new Oxybelus, in the 

 beginning of September. Stray examples will be found at times on 

 other plants. On September 17th, four 9 were obtained by sweeping 

 from Pedis papposa, but Cladothrix was growing within a few feel 

 of the Pedis. On September 23d, a 9 was obtained from Bige 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



wrightii. On September 25th, a few 9 were caught on Gutierrezia 

 sarothrce v. microcephala. 



42. Perdita pectidis n. sp. 



9 • — Head and thorax black, vertex greenish. Head of moderate 

 size, rounded, somewhat depressed on vertex. Sides of clypeus and 

 sides of face adjacent to orbital margin with sparse but large and 

 deep punctures. Vertex minutely rugulose, with sparse small punc- 

 tures. Cheeks less hairy than usual. Mandibles rufescent, whitish 

 at base, with dark tips. Clypeus with three rather large white 

 marks, the central one longitudinally oval. Sides of face with an 

 irregularly subtriangular white patch, narrowing to a point above, 

 about the upper level of the sockets of the antennas. Antennas with 

 the scape black, the flagellum sepia-brown. 



Mesothorax smooth, sparsely punctured, very shiny. Metathorax 

 blue-black. Collar, tubercles, and a couple of small spots on hind 

 border of prothorax, white. Tegulae hyaline subtestaceous. Femora 

 black, knees whitish. Tibiae and tarsi brown ; anterior tibiae in front, 

 and a stripe on middle tibiae pale yellow. 



Wings smoky, nervures and stigma sepia-brown. Poststigmatal 

 portion of marginal cell hardly as long as substigmatal ; 2d submar- 

 ginal narrowed more than half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct. 



Abdomen above very dark brown, segments 1-4 each with an 

 oblique white stripe on each side. Pygidial area dark subrufescent. 

 Venter dark brown. 



$ . — Wings clear. Metathorax quite blue. Mandibles white with 

 rufescent tips. White markings of face as in cladothricis $ . Pale 

 marks of abdomen reduced, sometimes to 4 or 5 small spots, which 

 are then pale yellowish. 



Hub. — Las Cruces, N. M., in numbers on Pedis papposa, Sept. 1 7, 

 1895. It is closely allied to cladothricis, but differs at once by the 

 face of the 9 not being all dark, and the different abdominal mark- 

 ings. 



On September 20th, I took four 9 P. pectidis from flowers of Tri- 

 bulus maximus, and two, also 9 > from flowers of Wedelia incarnata. 



With the P. pectidis on Pedis papposa w 7 ere a few P. fallax, 9 

 which I at first supposed to be a variety of it. P. fallax is, however, 

 distinguished by its greenish head and thorax (or at least the meso- 

 thorax more or less greenish), scape pale yellowish below or with a 

 yellow stripe, face-markings tinged distinctly yellowish, clypeus pale, 

 sometimes with two black bars, diverging below, and the usual black 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



dots, wings clear, abdominal markings inclined to be smaller, or 

 wanting on 4th segment. 



43. Perdita biparticeps n. sp. 



<? . — Length 3:5 mm. Head and thorax very dark blue; thorax 

 practically black, except the metathorax. Head large in compari- 

 son with the small thorax, rounded, somewhat broader than long, 

 cheeks unarmed. Face below antenna?, labrum and mandibles ex- 

 cept their slightly rufescent tips, lemon-yellow. The yellow extends 

 above the antenna? a short distance (and equally) in the median line 

 and at the sides, almost exactly as in the $ of affiiiis, the limit of the 

 lateral extension marked by a small pit close to the ocular margin, 

 where the yellow forms an angle of about 55°. Cheeks yellow below, 

 the yellow extending furthest upward along the orbital margin. 

 Antenna? sepia above, yellow below, the scape all yellow except end 

 above. Vertex granular. Mandibles simple. Mesothorax shining 

 but noticeably sculptured, the surface lineolate rather than granu- 

 lar. The mesothorax, as also the face, is very free from hairs ; and 

 even on the pleura and sides of metathorax there are comparatively 

 few. The upper part of the cheeks, however, exhibits conspicuous 

 white hairs. 



Tegula? hyaline ; wings slightly smoky, nervures and stigma sepia- 

 brown, the latter pallid in middle. Marginal cell rather large, 

 appendiculate, substigmatal portion about as long as poststigmatal ; 

 2d submarginal rather large, narrowed one-half to marginal ; 3d 

 discoidal distinct. 



Legs yellow, anterior and middle femora and tibiae with a dark 

 brown patch behind; posterior femora brown with yellow ends and 

 an obscure yellow stripe in front, posterior tibia? brown with the 

 proximal fourth pallid, tarsi whitish. 



Abdomen above pale sepia-brown, shining, with rather obscure 

 and suffused yellow markings, namely a patch on disc of 1st segment. 

 and bands at bases of segments 2-4, the last two of these shorter and 

 emarginate posteriorly. Venter dull yellow, brownish toward tip. 



Hab. — Las Crimes, N. M., on Pedis pappom, Sept. 17, 1< S 95, one 

 example. 



Differs from rectangulata by its small size and shiny mesothorax, 

 as well as the markings of the abdomen. The pleura has not the 

 yellow patch seen in maculipes. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Small -species found on Gutierrezia, 9 unknown. 



44. Perdita austini Ckll., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1895, p. 13. <f. (Hab., Las Cruces, 

 N. M.). 



The type was taken in September. The cheeks are unarmed, the 

 mandibles simple, the clypeus of the Panama-hat type, with the 

 crown higher, more like a Puritan's hat. The mesothorax is shiny, 

 it and the face nearly bare ; but the cheeks and pleura, as well as 

 the thorax beneath generally, with conspicuous white hairs. The 

 marginal cell is rather long, but the substigmatal portion is notice- 

 ably longer than the poststigmatal ; the second submarginal is nar- 

 rowed nearly to a point above. 



I took one specimen at Albuquerque, N. M., on Gutierrezia saro- 

 thrce, Aug. 15, 1895. At Las Cruces it is quite rare so far as observed. 

 Mr. C. Rhodes took one on Bigelovia ivrightii, toward the end of 

 September. I took it on Gutierrezia sarothrce var. microcephala on 

 Sept. 25th. The 9 is unknown. 



45. Perdita gutierreziae n. sp. or variety. 



$ . — About 4 mm. long, size and appearance of niiidella $ . 

 Cheeks unarmed, but projecting at base of mandibles so as to simu- 

 late a small tooth. Face entirely yellow up to nearly the length of 

 scape above level of insertion of antenna?, the yellow enclosing a 

 black spot on each side at its extreme upper border close to margin 

 of eye. On each side, midway between the eye and the median line, 

 the yellow 7 is depressed by a slight invasion of the blue, which forms 

 thereat an angle considerably greater than a right angle. Lower 

 half of cheeks broadly yellow, pleura with a yellow patch, which is 

 wanting in nitidella; 2d submarginal cell more narrowed above 

 than in nitidella; 3d discoidal distinct. Veins dark brown. The 

 rest much as in nitidella. 



Hab. — Albuquerque, N. M., one specimen on Gutierrezia saro- 

 tUroz, August 15th. This is certainly distinct from nitidella, but it 

 may be only a variety of bigelovia; see below under maculipes. 



46. Perdita tarda n.sp. 



S . — Length 4* mm. Head and thorax dark blue. Head mod- 

 erately large, distinctly broader than long, cheeks unarmed, vertex 

 rugulose and punctured. Face very free from hairs, except sides 

 near antennae, where they are rather conspicuous ; cheeks thickly 

 clothed with long white hairs. Antennae dark brown above, yel- 

 lowish beneath, the scape all yellow beneath and at base above. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Mandibles very little curved, yellow, rufescent at ends. Clypeus 

 approximately cocked-hat shaped, the lateral prolongations broad. 

 Face below antennae all lemon-yellow except a notch of the dark 

 color distad of each dog-ear mark, and not quite so large as it. The 

 supraclypeal mark is roundly emarginate above. The clypeus has 

 the usual two dark dots. Along the orbital margins the yellow 

 ascends about half the length of the scape above the level of the an- 

 tenna, and ends in an oblique truncation ; this upward band of yel- 

 low is a little wider than the scape. The cheeks are entirely dark. 

 Mesothorax smooth and shining, though minutely lineolately sculp- 

 tured, nearly black; mesothorax finely sculptured, very distinctly 

 blue. Pleura all dark. Tubercles yellowish. 



Tegula? pale brown ; wings slightly smoky, nervures and stigma 

 sepia-brown, the latter pale in middle. Marginal cell large, appendi- 

 culate, poststigmatal portion longest; 2d submarginal narrowed less 

 than half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct. Transverse cubital 

 nervures more or less broken by hyaline dots. Legs black, all the 

 knees, anterior and middle tibiae in front, and base of hind tibisei 

 yellow ; tarsi pale brownish, the anterior ones yellowish. 



Abdomen above piceous, with narrow whitish bands, interrupted 

 in the middle, rather obscurely indicated on disc of 1st segment, and 

 at base of segments 2 and 3. The markings are in the form of nar- 

 row straight stripes, not oblique ones as in some species. Venter 

 dark brown. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., one specimen on Gutierrezia sarothne 

 var. microcephala, Sept. 23, 1895. Allied to P. biparticeps, from 

 which it differs at once in the face-markings, the abdomen, etc. 

 From austini it differs radically in the face-markings. 



Small species found on Bigelovia wrightii, having the abdomen 

 banded. 



47. Perdita nitidella Ckll., Proe. Phila. Acad., 1895, p. 16. '. Hab.. La? Cruces. 

 N. M. i. 



On Bigelovia wrightii at Las Cruces, several males on September 

 2d, one 9 on September 11, 1895. The latter is herewith described : 



9 . — Length 5 mm. Face-markings creamy-white. Clypeus white 

 with two black dots, the anterior margin narrowly brown, and traces 

 of the two longitudinal bars in brown. Sides of face with an irregu- 

 larly subtriangular white mark, the upper obliquely truncate end of 

 which is level with the insertion of the antennae. Cheeks quite 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



densely white-hair)*. Prothorax with less pale marking, the tuber- 

 cles not connected with } r ellow of margin of prothorax. Nervures 

 dark brown ; 3d discoidal distinct. Legs about as in avstini, but 

 anterior femora partly black in front, and middle femora with less 

 black. Abdomen banded as in $ , but the banding yellowish-white. 



48. Perdita bigelovise n. sp. 



$. — About 5 mm. long. Resembles nitklella $ , but larger; 

 face-markings as in gutierrezice $ , but the black spots close to eye* 

 above are not enclosed, but only produce a notch in the yellow ; and 

 the yellow is in the middle-line rather more produced upward, not 

 reaching the ocellus, but terminating some distance before it in an 

 emarginate truncation. Venation as in nitidella, with 3d discoidal 

 cell very indistinct. Pleura largely yellow, the amount of yellow 

 on it variable. Legs and abdomen as in nitidella. Cheeks unarmed. 

 (7 cTs examined.) 



9 . — Length 6mm. Similar to nitidella 9 > the pale marks of 

 face rather inclining to pinkish-brown ; and the marks of sides of 

 face distinctly notched on inner side, and sometimes also at end. 

 Sometimes there are two pale spots above the clypeus ; 3d discoidal 

 cell distinct. Abdomen brown-black, with creamy-white bands on 

 segments 1-4, that on 1 interrupted ; 5 with a rudimentary linear 

 broken band, or frequently with a distinct broad band. 



Hab. — Albuquerque, N. M., several of both sexes between the 

 old and new towns, on Bigelovia wrightii, Aug. 16, 1895. The males 

 of this lot were unfortunately reddened by the cyanide ; but the 

 females, collected in the same bottle at the same time, were not so 

 affected. On September 11th, a specimen of each sex was taken on 

 Bigelovia wrightii close to the Agricultural College at Las Cruces. 

 The ? is very similar to that of P. numerata. 



49. Perdita maculipes n. sp., or variety. 



$ . — A small form, 4 mm. long, similar to nitidella, anterior and 

 middle femora all yellow, anterior and middle tibia? each with a black 

 patch. 



From nitidella it is readily separated, thus : 



(1). Median and lateral upward extensions of yellow on face ir- 

 regularly truncate ; anterior and middle tibiae with a black 

 patch ; pleura with a large yellow patch ; bands of abdo- 

 men united at sides ; lower part of cheeks broadly yellow, 



= maculipes $ . 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



(2). Median and lateral upward extensions of yellow on face not 

 truncate, or lateral ones notched and subtruncate ; anterior 

 and middle tibia? all yellow ; pleura without a large yellow 

 patch ; bands of abdomen not united (or only the first two 

 or three united) at sides; lower part of cheeks very nar- 

 rowly yellow =nitidella 2 . 



From bipartlceps it is thus distinguished : 



(1). Size smaller, abdomen suffused ; pleura without yellow patch, 



= biparticeps $ . 



(2). Size larger, abdomen not suffused ; pleura with a large yellow 



patch ; median face-marks more developed above antenna', 



= maculipes $ . 

 It is very much like gutierrezice, but differs from that in its longer 

 marginal cell, the abdominal bands joined laterally, and the upper 

 margin of the yellow of face much more distinctly trifid, besides the 

 marks on the tibial It resembles gulierrezice in the broadly yellow 

 lower part of cheeks, and the yellow blotch on pleura. 



From small examples of S bigelovice it is distinguished by the 

 abdominal bands being united at the sides, the face-markings 

 already mentioned, and the tibiae with darl* marks — though the 

 middle tibia? of bigelovice sometimes show a small spot. The mar- 

 ginal cell is as in bigelovice. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., one example on Biglovia wrightii, Sept. 

 5, 1895. (A.M.Holt.) The above form allies itself very closely 

 with bigelovice and gutierrezice, which have the cheeks more or less 

 broadly yellow and the yellow patch on the pleura. The more one 

 studies these forms the more apparent does it become that nitidella, 

 with its dark pleura and narrow yellow line only on the cheeks, is 

 distinct ; while bigt lovice, gui&erri zia and maculip< s run each other so 

 close that they seem to be varieties of one species. Yet I leave them 

 as they stand, not because I think that they are what would be called 

 good species, but rather to draw attention to the divergence which 

 may represent an early stage in species-formation. It will be noted 

 that maculipes, while retaining the essential characters of bigelovia, 

 departs in its face-markings toward the condition of nitidella, 



50. Perdita pellucida n. sp. 



S . — Length about 5 mm. Head very dark blue, thorax black 

 except the dark blue metathorax. Head of ordinary size, rounded, 

 broader than long; cheeks unarmed, mandibles moderately stunt. 

 simple. Vertex granular. Face with rather conspicuous but very 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



scattered hairs, a tuft of erect hairs behind the ocelli being most 

 noticeable. Cheeks with long white hairs. Face beloAv antennae 

 seraitransparent dull white, the clypeus prominent and shining. 

 The upper margin of the white is not very clearly defined, hut it 

 ends abruptly in the median line at the lower level of the antennal 

 sockets, while at the sides of the face it ascends rather broadly not 

 quite the length of the scape above the level of the antennae. Thus 

 the pale color of the face is distributed as in obscurata $ , except 

 that it perhaps ascends a little higher at the sides. (In bigelovice 

 and nitidella it ascends above the level of the antenna 1 in the median 

 line). Clypeus narrowly produced at sides to bases of mandibles, 

 but higher than in the Panama-hat type. Mandibles white with 

 rufous tips. Antenna? pale testaceous ; flagellum, funicle and end 

 of scape becoming dark brown above. Lower half of cheeks nar- 

 rowly white along orbital margin, thus recalling the cheek-marking 

 of nitidella. 



Thorax with sparse but rather conspicuous hairs. Mesothorax 

 shining, appearing slightly bluish in some lights, very finely lineo- 

 lately sculptured, median groove distinct. Metathorax microscopic- 

 ally reticulate. Part of collar, and whole hind margin of prothorax, 

 connecting with tubercles, but very narrowly interrupted in median 

 line, white. The margin of the prothorax below the tubercles is 

 broadly white. Pleura hairy, dark except a white spot about as big 

 as a tubercle, anteriorly. Tegulse hyaline. Wings hyaline ; costal 

 nervure, margin of stigma, and marginal nervure, sepia-brown, the 

 other nervures colorless. Marginal cell unusually long, poststig- 

 matal portion considerably the longest, minutely appendiculate. 

 (In nitidella and bigelovice the marginal is conspicuously shorter.} 

 Second submarginal narrowed more than one-half to marginal ; 3d 

 discoidal very weak. 



Four anterior legs yellowish-white, tarsi becoming testaceous 

 middle tibiae with a dark brown line behind. Hind legs with the 

 basal two-thirds of coxa? above, most of distal half of femora above 

 and behind, and tibiae except anterior margin, dark brown; the 

 tarsi brownish. 



Abdomen above with nearly equally broad bands of dull white 

 (becoming pale brownish toward tip) and dark sepia-brown ; these 

 bands not interrupted, nor united at sides or in the middle, nor 

 notched. First segment all brown-black except the hind margin 

 narrowly. The dark bands are four in number, the sixth segment 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



having no band. Venter pale yellowish, slightly orange toward 

 the tip. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., one specimen on Bigelovia wrigktii, 

 close to the Agricultural College, Sept. 12, 1895. (Ckll. 5,100). The 

 type specimen may be a little immature, but it is clearly distinct. 



Small species found on Bigelovia wrightii,the abdomen not banded. 

 51. Perdita fallax n. sp., or race. % 



5 , — 5 m m. long. Head and thorax dark green, dullish, rather 

 hairy but the hairs short, face below antenna? bare and shining. 

 Head of ordinary size, rounded, not broader than long, occiput and 

 cheeks well fringed with short hairs, vertex granular. Clypeus 

 moderately high, flat above, with the sides very narrowly produced. 

 Face-markings yellowish-white ; clypeus all pale except the two 

 usual dots, and two dots near the upper margin, representing the 

 ends of the bars seen in some species, or the bars may be even 

 fairly well-developed. Supraclypeal mark absent, though there 

 may be a pair of scarcely perceptible pale specks close to upper 

 border of clypeus. Dog-ear marks absent. Pale lateral marks at 

 first, rapidly narrowing, and then gradually, ending in a narrow 

 truncation at the level of the antenna}. Cheeks dark, mandibles 

 rufous at tips. Antenna? dark brown, yellow beneath, the sutures 

 of the flagellar joints dark. 



Mesothorax minutely lineolately sculptured. Pleura all dark. 

 Tubercles and two spots on hind border of prothorax white. Teguhe 

 hyaline subtestaceous. Wings hyaline, nervures and margin of 

 stigma sepia-brown. Marginal cell appendiculate, poststigmatal 

 portion a little the longest. Second submarginal large, narrowed a 

 little more than one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct. Legs 

 brown-black; anterior knees and anterior tibiae in front pale prim- 

 rose-yellow. Middle and hind knees whitish. 



Abdomen rather broad and flat; above piceous, with an oblique 

 white mark on each side of segments 1-3, those on 1 very narrow 

 and closely approximating in the median line. Tip orange, or to 

 be more precise, the pygidium is orange with the border colorless 

 and hyaline, the tip emarginate, as is also the case in arfiiiis. Ven- 

 ter piceous. 



][,,/,. — Las Cruces, N. M., on Bigelovia wfightii, Sept. 23, 1895, 

 two specimens (Ckll.). This is, in all respects, very closely allied to 

 P. affinis, but it is smaller, the abdominal markings are white and 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



the abdomen is not so conspicuously marked. Yet in all essential 

 particulars it agrees so nearly with affiitis that it might well be 

 deemed a southern race of it. The clypeal markings vary as in 

 aftiiiis. On Sept. 20th, I took one example of P.fallax on flowers 

 of Verbesina encelioides, and on Sept. 17th, three on Pectis papposa. 



52. Perdita phymatae Ckll., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1S95, p. 12. $. (Hab., Las Cruces 



N. M.). 



In the original description the legs are described as dark brown 

 without markings, but in the normal form of the species the knees 

 are all pallid and the anterior tibiae are yellow in front, as in fallax. 

 The original type specimen, now in Coll. Am. Ent. Soc, w T as ex- 

 amined for me by Mr. Fox, who reports that the yellow is repre- 

 sented by pale testaceous. 



The mesothorax is minutely sculptured, though shining. The 

 second submarginal cell is large, and narrows more than half to 

 marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct. The clypeus is strongly punctured, 

 and frequently presents a small yellow median spot. Glossa not 

 hairy. 



This species was common on Bigelovia wrightii at Las Cruces, 

 Sept. 23, 1895, but the $ has not been -observed. It was also taken 

 on B. wrightii on Sept. 2d, together with P. nitidella, P. luteola, 

 Halictm stultus and Prosopis. On Sept. 25th, it was taken on Gutier- 

 rezia sarothrce var. microcephala, together with P. semicrocea, etc. 



53. Perdita aeneifrons n. sp. 



9 . — Length 5 mm. Head dark green with the front very dis- 

 tinctly brassy, and the clypeus black ; thorax pitch black, with the 

 metathorax dark green. Abdomen black, shiny, without bands or 

 spots, veuter dark subolivaceous brown. 



Head rounded, of ordinary size, not broader than long, vertex 

 minutely rugulose and very sparsely punctured. Clypeus shining 

 prominent, high, but not produced laterally to bases of mandibles, 

 very sparsely punctured on its lower portion. Mandibles pale yel- 

 low at base, rufescent otherwise, with a distinct tooth on inner side. 

 Face all dark, medially free from hairs, laterally with short hairs. 

 Cheeks moderately hairy. Antenna? dark brown. 



Mesothorax shining, perfectly smooth, bare ; except its anterior 

 border, which presents short hairs and is very feebly sculptured, and 

 even presents in some lights a vague greenish tinge. Scutellum 

 bare, postscutellum with a thin fringe of white hairs. 



Metathorax granular. Prothorax, even including tubercules. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



wholly dark. (In phymatce the tubercles are more or less pallid.) 

 Tegulse hyaline. Wings milky hyaline, nervures and stigma al- 

 most colorless, the latter yellowish. (In its pallid wings it resem- 

 bles seviicrocea.) Stigma large ; marginal cell short, substigmatal 

 portion longest, 2d submarginal narrowed about one-half to mar- 

 ginal ; 3d discoidal distinct. 



Legs black, knees pallid, anterior tibise in front, anterior tarsi 

 and an obscure stripe on middle tibiae, yellow. Tip of abdomen 

 rounded or subtruncate, not emarginate. (It is emarginate in fal- 

 lax.) 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., on Bigelovia wrighiii, Sept. 23, 1895, 

 in some numbers with P. phymatce. Its superficial resemblance to 

 phymatce is such that when catching the specimens I thought I had 

 only one species, but a careful examination shows striking differ- 

 ences in the head, thorax and wings. The $ was not found. 



54. Perdita semicrocea Ckll., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1895, p. 13. $. (Hab., Las 

 Cruces, N. M.). 



In 1895 this species has been taken commonly at Las Cruces ; on 

 Bigelovia wrightii, Sept. 2d and Sept. 12th ; on Solidago canadensis, 

 Sept. 3d ; on Gutierrezia sarothrce var microcephala, Sept. 25th. The 

 original specimen was taken in October. P. semicrocea is less 

 strictly limited to one flower than most of the genus, being taken 

 rather freely on all the plants mentioned — perhaps most freely on the 

 Solidago. The $ differs in having the face below the level of the 

 antennae entirely yellowish-white, except the clypeal dots. The 

 pale color does not extend further upward, but is slightly notched 

 on each side of the antenna?, the outer margin of the notch being a 

 little higher than the termination of the pale color on the orbital 

 margin. The cheeks are unarmed. The narrow tip of the abdo- 

 men is very narrowly truncate, not emarginate. The anterior and 

 middle legs are yellow, except a dark patch on the femora behind. 



55. Perdita luteola Ckll., Ent. News, 1894, p. 328. ?. (Hab., Las Cruces. X. M. . 

 Very abundant on Bigelovia wrightii, Sept, 2d, etc. On Sept. 23d, 



I caught several on Gutierrezia sarothrce var. microcephala. I have 

 found them on no other flowers, except that once I saw one in the 

 net after sweeping over Pedis papposa. 



The 9 differs in having a black line in place of a black spot be- 

 fore the eyes, being really the groove usually seen in that situation, 

 wholly black ; a similar black line placed longitudinally on each 

 side of the anterior half of the second segment oi' the abdomen ; and 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



the antenna? brown-black or dark brown above. The $ has the 

 cheeks unarmed. 



When left too long in a damp cyanide bottle the $ turns a bril- 

 liant crimson all over. 



A species found in New Mexico, habits and exact locality unknown. 



56. Perdita nuda n. sp. 



9 ■ — Length 7i mm. Head and thorax green, legs and abdomen 

 dark chocolate-brown. The body in general is remarkably free 

 from hairs ; the face is bare but the occiput and cheeks present 

 scattered short hairs ; the thorax is practically bare, even including 

 the pleura and sides of metathorax ; the tip of the abdomen has a 

 fairly dense fringe of hairs ; the tibia? and tarsi are quite hairy, the 

 hairs of a dull whitish color. 



Head of ordinary size, a little broader than long, dark green, the 

 face very flat, vertex granular, clypeus punctured. There are no 

 face-markings except an oblong dull yellow spot on the clypeus. 

 Basal portion of mandibles yellow with a large dark spot. Glossa 

 not hairy. Antenna? brown-black ; flagellum whitish, scape and 

 funicle testaceous beneath. 



Thorax dark olive-green, metathorax bluish ; the whole rather 

 dull and finely sculptured. The pleura is quite shiny, but still 

 sculptured. There are no pale marks on the thorax, but the tuber- 

 cles, quite prominent, are dark brown. 



Tegula? hyaline with an opaque spot in front. Wings milky-hy- 

 aline, nervures and stigma dark brown, the latter pallid in middle. 

 Marginal cell with the poststigmatal portion as long or a little longer 

 than the substigmatal. Second submarginal large, narrowed more 

 than one-half to marginal. Third discoidal distinct. Anterior 

 knees, and anterior tibia? in front, pale yellow. Abdomen above 

 and below dark brown, without any pale markings. Tip emargi- 

 nate. 



Hab. — New Mexico, one specimen sent by Mr. Fox. Locality, 

 etc., unknown. It resembles P. phymatce-, but is much larger than 

 that or asteris. P. asteris has a hairy mesothorax ; phymatce has a 

 nude mesothorax, but is much more shiny as well as being so much 

 smaller. P. semiccerulea has a hairy mesothorax. 



A species found on Aster canesct ns. 



57. Perdita asteris n. sp. 



9 . — Length about or hardly G mm. Head very dark blue, 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



thorax very dark green, metathorax dark blue. Both head and 

 thorax are very hairy, with short hairs ; the disc of metathorax 

 bare, and the disc of clypeus seeming bare, but seen, when side- 

 ways, to have a fine down. Head rather large, rounded, about as 

 broad as long. Vertex very finely granular, punctate ; sides of 

 clypeus punctate. Mandibles with the basal two-thirds very broad, 

 whitish, becoming rufescent ; the terminal third black, compara- 

 tively slender, coming to a point. Antenna? dark brown above, 

 yellowish beneath. Pale markings of face yellowish- white, restricted 

 to clypeus and sides of face. Clypeus high, pale with the usual dots, 

 but with a dark blotch on each side above, so that the yellowish- 

 white color rapidly narrows, but instead of coming to a point, 

 broadens a little to an abrupt truncation on the upper clypeal mar- 

 gin. Lateral marks of face broadly triangular, the inner angle of 

 the triangle being opposite to the point on the clypeus where the 

 pale color suddenly narrows, and the upper angle (of about 30°) on 

 a level with the antennal sockets. 



Thorax with a very narrow yellow line on hind border of pro- 

 thorax, and a very small yellow stripe on tubercles. Mesothorax 

 dullish, granular. 



Tegulie pale, testaceous ; wings milky-hyaline, nervures and 

 stigma very pale yellow, nearly colorless, the latter centrally hya- 

 line. Marginal cell moderately long and narrow, with its poststig- 

 matal portion a little the longer. Second submarginal rather large, 

 narrowed more than half to marginal, being not far from an equi- 

 lateral triangle. Third discoidal distinct. 



Legs pubescent, black ; the tarsi all white with a testaceous or 

 yellowish tinge; hind margin of first joint of hind tarsi blackish, 

 anterior knees and anterior tibia? in front pale yellow. Abdomen 

 above shining piceous without markings, the hind margins of the 

 segments a little rufescent. Venter dark brown. 



Mut. 9 . — Clypeus all yellowish-white except the usual dots and 

 two ill-defined brown spots above. A semilunar dull yellowish su- 

 praclypeal mark. One specimen. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., Sept. 19, 1895, four specimens on 

 flowers of Aster canescens var. viscosus. Prof. E. O. AVooton took 

 one on the same flowers as late as the middle of October. 



,1 $]<r<'ic$ found on $>n>vi<> douglasii. 

 58. Perdita senecionis n. sp. 



9 . — Length about 7 mm. Head and thorax dark, dull olive- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



green, even including the metathorax ; conspicuously granular. 

 Head a little longer than broad ; face practically hairless, cheeks 

 and occiput with short whitish hairs. Vertex depressed between 

 ocelli and orbits. Mandibles stout, simple, gradually tapering, 

 blunt at tips, pale yellowish with the apical half rufesceut. Anten- 

 na? very dark brown, dull pale yellowish beneath. Face-markings 

 cream color, very distinct, restricted to clypeus and sides of face. 

 Clypeus high, flattened above, prominent, cream color with broad 

 black bars. Supraclypeal region dark, elevated, convex. Lateral 

 face-marks club-shaped, rapidly narrowing and continuing upward, 

 to a subtruncate termination on a level with the antennal sockets. 



Thorax nearly hairless, as in P. mala; the greater part of tuber- 

 cles, and a broadly triangular patch on each side of hind margin 

 of prothorax, shining pale yellow. (In nuda these pale markings 

 are lacking.) Tegulse hyaline, with a kidney-shaped pale yellow 

 opaque patch. Wings slightly smoky, nerviu - es and stigma dark 

 brown, the latter pallid in center. Marginal cell rather long, ap- 

 pendiculate, its poststigmatal portion a little the longest. Second 

 submarginal large, subtriangular, narrowed more than half to mar- 

 ginal. Third discoidal distinct. Legs black, knees pallid, anterior 

 tarsi testaceous, anterior tibia? yellow in front, middle tibia? with a 

 yellow stripe in front. 



Abdomen above black, with eight creamy-white marks, just like 

 those of affinis. Venter piceous. 



Mut. 9 . — The abdominal pale marks reduced to six, the last two 

 failing, one specimen. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., six examples on flowers of Senecio 

 douglasii, collected by Prof. E. O. Wooton, Oct. 9, 1895. 



This interesting species is extremely close to affinis, and would be 

 taken for it upon superficial examination. It differs, however, by 

 the somewhat longer head, the narrower lateral face marks, the 

 larger size, and especially by the glossa presenting only a small 

 patch of hairs near its tip, whereas in affinis it is strongly hairy for 

 a considerable distance. P. octomaculata has the glossa also more 

 hairy than in senecionis. 



A small species found on Clirysojisis villosa. 

 59. Perdita vespertilio n. sp. 



$ . — Length about 4 mm. Head and thorax shining black. 

 Cheeks unarmed. Head rather large, especially in comparison with 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



the small thorax, when seen from the front almost precisely circu- 

 lar. Front quite hairy, with white hairs ; cheeks hairy. Antennae 

 dark brown above, pale yellowish beneath. Clypeus rather cocked- 

 hat-shaped. Pale markings of face cream color, confined to clypeus 

 and sides of face, with, of course, the labrum and basal portion of 

 mandibles. Seen all together, they suggest the head of one of the 

 long-eared bats, whence the specific name. The darkened upper 

 portion of the labrum represents the bat's mouth. Clypeus cream- 

 color, with the usual dots obscure. Lateral face-marks broadly tri- 

 angular, the inner angle opposite the clypeal dots, the upper one 

 (of about 45°) on a level with the anteunal sockets. Thorax shin- 

 ing, smooth, tolerably hairy. Prothorax, including tubercles, dark, 

 the tubercles brownish. Tegulae hyaline ; wings hyaline, irides- 

 cent, nervures colorless, stigma margined with very pale yellowish. 

 Marginal cell fairly long and narrow, the poststigmatal portion a 

 little the longer. Second submarginal subtriangular, narrowed a 

 little more than half to marginal. Third discoidal absent. 



Legs dark brown with the tarsi brownish-white ; anterior tibiae 

 yellowish except a suffused brownish patch behind, middle tibiae pal- 

 lid in front. 



Abdomen short and broad, above dark brown without pale mark- 

 ings, but the distal margins of the segments more or less pale. 

 Venter brown. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., Oct. 5, 1895, one specimen on Chry- 

 sopsis villosa. No more could be seen. The locality is about a mile 

 southeast of the Agricultural College. This little species has some 

 resemblance to californica and its allies, but a glance at the face 

 will distinguish it. 



Three species with large heads, from N( w Mexico, found on Composites. 



60. Perdita grandiceps n. sp. 



$ . — Length about 5 mm. Form stout ; head quadrate, ex- 

 tremely large, larger than the thorax, eyes narrow, cheeks armed 

 with blunt teeth. Face flattened, very sparsely and inconspicuously 

 hirsute, cheeks hairy beneath. Color of head very dark bottle- 

 green ; vertex granular, it and front looking almost silky, cheeks 

 much more shiny. Mandibles stout, curved, scimitar-shaped, base 

 pale yellowish, end rufescent, blackish on inner side. Antenna? 

 blackish above, yellowish-brown beneath : scape piceous, with a 

 light yellowish spot at base in front. Clypeus rather low. anterior 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



margin not produced into spines. Face-markings dull sulphur-yel- 

 low. Clypeus with a yellow longitudinal band, uniting with the 

 broadly yellow anterior portion — or one might say, clypeus yellow 

 with a pair of large triangular dark patches, the triangles having 

 one side coincident with the hind margin. The extreme anterior 

 edge of the clypeus is bordered with a black line. The supracly- 

 peal mark is represented by a pair of squarish yellow patches ; the 

 dog-ear marks, on each side of these, are not much larger. The 

 lateral yellow face-marks would form nearly equilateral triangles, 

 but that the innermost angle is narrowly produced. The upper 

 angle scarcely reaches the level of the antennal sockets. 



Thorax not very shiny, the surface granular. No pale markings. 

 Prothorax with prominent shoulders. Color of thorax black with a 

 slight metallic tinge, becoming distinctly brassy-green on anterior 

 half of mesothorax ; metathorax blue-black. Pleura and sides of 

 metathorax with white hairs ; mesothorax with sparse hairs. Teg- 

 ulse hyaline subtestaceous. Wings milky-hyaline, nervures (except 

 the dark costal nervure) practically colorless ; stigma very pale yel- 

 lowish. Marginal cell obliquely truncate, substigmatal portion a lit- 

 tle the longer. Second submarginal narrowed hardly one-half to 

 marginal, third discoidal excessively weak. 



Legs shining black, with white hairs. Anterior coxa? with a very 

 noticeable tuft of white hairs. Tarsi becoming brownish. Ante- 

 rior knees, and anterior tibia? in front, yellow. 



Abdomen oval, shining piceous without light markings. Mar- 

 gins of the segments a little rufescent. Venter brown. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., on Solidago canadensis, Sept. 3, 1895, 

 one specimen (Ckll., 4,746). It was associated on the flowers with 

 Melecta maculata, Anthophora maculifrons, Perdita semicrocea, Col- 

 ietes, Heriades, Prosopis 2 spp., Oxybelus 2 spp., Philanthus and 

 Ody nevus. 



61. Perdita crassiceps n. sp. Fig. 15 (head.) 



$ . — 6 mm. long. Smooth and shiny ; head and thorax so dark 

 green as to seem black, metathorax very dark blue. Head quad- 

 rate, extremely large, eyes comparatively small and narrow. Ver- 

 tex minutely granular, but nevertheless shining, with a transverse 

 ridge behind the ocelli. The punctuation is sparse. Cheeks un- 

 armed ; mandibles rather long, scimitar-shaped, blunt at tips, 

 pale yellowish becoming rufescent distally, the tips blackish. An- 

 tenna? dark brown above, yellow beneath. Clypeus wholly pale 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



yellowish, except the usual black dots, and a pair of obscure suf- 

 fused brownish spots adjacent to hind margin. Supraclypeal mark 

 wanting. Dog-ear marks present. Lateral face-marks white, 

 broad, subquadrate, the lower border occupied by a black line, the 

 upper border passing somewhat obliquely from the point on orbital 

 margin opposite the antennal sockets, to slightly below the upper 

 end of the dog-ear marks. 



Thorax smooth and shining, mesothorax sparsely punctured ; 

 hairs on thorax above sparse, brownish, those on pleura white. No 

 light markings except that the tubercles are pale 

 yellow with a dark spot, and the collar shows a lit- 

 tle yellow. 



Tegula? pale testaceous ; wings hyaline, nervures 



Fig. 15. practically colorless, stigma very pale yellowish. 



Marginal cell rather long and narrow, its poststigmatal and substig- 



matal portions about equal. Second submarginal subtriangular, 



narrowed more than half to marginal. Third discoidal very weak. 



Legs black with the knees and tarsi testaceous ; anterior and 

 middle tibiae testaceous in front. Abdomen above shining dark 

 brown, the hind margins of the segments a little pale; no light 

 marks. Venter light brown. 



Hub. — Albuquerque, N. M., June 30, 1895, one specimen on a 

 yellow -flowered species of Composite not identified. (Ckll., 3,253.) 

 62. Perdita laticeps n. Bp. 



$ . — 5 ' nini. long. This greatly resembles crassiceps, in fact I had 

 regarded them as the same until a close examination was made when 

 writing the description of the latter. P. laticeps differs from crassi- 

 ceps as follows : 



The head is a little larger, the face is much more hairy, the sides 

 of the cheeks are covered with short hairs (whereas in crassiceps 

 they are bare and shining), the clypeua is distinctly panama-hatr 

 shaped, the supraclypeal mark is represented by a narrow trans- 

 verse line, adjacent to the upper border of the clypeus, the dog-ear 

 marks are absent, the antennse are dark brown above and below, 

 the mandibles are stouter, the anterior and middle tibia? are not 

 testaceous in front, the hind tibia? are more hairy, the abdomen is 

 considerably shorter and broader, with the hind margins of the seg- 

 ments broadly hyaline. The tip of the abdomen is narrowly but 

 abruptly truncate. There is no transverse ridge behind the ocelli, 

 but this area shows strong punctures, which arc wanting in crassi- 

 ceps. The wings are as in crassiceps. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



Hab. — Las Cruees, X. M., one collected by Mr. A. M. Holt on 



Verbesina encelioides, Sept., 1895. This species is allied to inter- 

 rupta and californica. 



Species found on Verbesina encelioides in the Mesilla Valley, N. M. 



63. Perdita beata n. sp. 



9 . — Length 8-8} mm. Entirely bright canary-yellow ; except 

 the flagellum blackish above, the usual clypeal dots, an obscure 

 black line round the lower part of the dog-ear marks, especially on 

 the inner side ; a black band, not quite as long as the scape, before 

 each orbit ; a short black line on each side of second abdominal seg- 

 ment ; a dark shining pit on the hiud part of the metathorax ; and 

 the lower (ventral) half of the pleura black. Wings hyaline, nerv- 

 ures and stigma very pale yellow. Marginal cell large, poststig- 

 matal portion longest. Second submarginal narrowing hardly one- 

 half to marginal. Third discoidal distinct. Hind tibiae and tarsi 

 very hairy. Mesothorax, scutellum and postscutellum with short 

 dense erect yellow hairs. Ocelli dark. Ends of mandibles dark, 

 the mandibles being quite abruptly bent before the dark portion. 

 Terminal portion of glossa not hairy. 



Sab. — Las Cruees, N. M., on flowers of Verbesina encelioides. 

 The first was taken in September, 1895, by Mr. A. M. Holt. On 

 Sept. 20th I took one, and again another on Sept. 28th. 



This lovely insect is a sort of gigantic P. luteola ; but the meso- 

 thorax of luteo la is bare, while that of beata is very bristly ; luteola 

 also does not show the black on under part of pleura. 



64. Perdita perpulchra n. sp. 



9 . — Length 8i-9 mm. Head and thorax bronzy-green, densely 

 covered (except the smooth disc of metathorax and middle of face) 

 with short erect pale yellowish hairs, which become longer on the 

 the pleura and cheeks beneath, and sparse on the vertex. Head of 

 ordinary size, subtriangular or broadly subcordiform ; vertex dull- 

 ish, granular ; clypeus approximately cocked-hat-shaped. The con- 

 spicuous white hairs on face are arranged so as to seem to radiate 

 from the antenna? ; but the disc of the clypeus, and the area above 

 it and between the antenna?, are bare. Mandibles abruptly bent 

 before their dark ends. End of glossa with a conspicuous brush of 

 hairs. Antenna? yellow ; flagellum, fnnicle and end of scape black 

 above. Clypeus (except the usual pair of dots) and lateral face- 

 marks yellowish-white. Xo supraclypeal or dog-ear marks. Lat- 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



eral pale marks subtriangular, the inner angle next to clypeal dot, 

 the upper one (of about 30°) on a level with the antennal sockets. 

 Mesothorax dullish, finely punctured as well as very bristly. Disc 

 of metathorax bare and shining, with very fine striatulate sculpture. 

 Prothorax (including tubercles) yellowish-white, except a transverse 

 dark line widening centrally into a large dark patch. 



Teguhe hyaline. Wings hyaline, nervures and stigma very pale 

 yellowish. 



Stigma small ; marginal cell long, its poststigmatal part much 

 the longest. Second submarginal large, subtriangular, narrowed 

 considerably more than half to marginal. Third discoidal distinct. 

 Legs yellowish-white, posterior tibiae very hairy ; anterior femora 

 below, except at distal end, a patch on anterior tibiae behind, mid- 

 dle femora below, a patch on middle tibiae behind, hind femora 

 with a band above and an oblique streak near base within, hind 

 tibia?, except proximal fourth and middle and hind tarsi, black. 



Abdomen above white with black bands. First segment with two 

 black spots in front, and a large broad black triangle, haviug for 

 its base the whole distal margin of the segment. Segments 2-4 

 each with a distal black band, which is swollen in front sublaterally, 

 and behind laterally, the swelling or patch in the latter case being 

 on the next segment. Tip of abdomen dark brown, the pygidial 

 area smooth and shining, though microscopically subpunctate, ex- 

 treme tip rather broadly truncate, subemarginate. Venter mostly 

 black, with a white spot on hind margin of each segment, and the 

 sides largely whitish. 



Mut. 9 . — The dark triangle on first abdominal segment with a 

 small central light triangle. Abdominal bands broader, and con- 

 tinuously invading the segment following. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., on flowers of Verbesina encelioides, one 

 taken by Mr. A. M. Holt in the fall of 1895, and one by myself on 

 Oct. 5th. A very beautiful and distinct species. It differs at once 

 from albovittata by its larger size, non-hairy clypeus, lateral face- 

 markings narrowing above, etc. 



65. Perdita albovittata Ckll., Proc. Phila. Aoad., L895, p. L5. ; . Bab., Sao 



Augustine, N. M.). 



The two specimens taken at San Augustine on Aug. 29th are both 

 females, not $ and 9 , as formerly stated. Miss Mae Gilmore took 

 •a 9 in the Mesilla Valley, close to the Agricultural College, Sept. 

 23d, on Verbesina encelioides. 




1896.] NATURAL :-< IEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



On Oct. 4th, at the same locality, Mr. C. Rhodes was so fortunate 

 as to find a $ on Verbesina encelioides. The glossa of the 9 shows 

 two brushes of hairs, separated by an interval ; that of the $ is 

 bare. 



The $ is only about 4j mm. long ( 9 5j), and differs at once by 

 the abdomen, which is short and broad, black, with the margins of 

 the segments appearing broadly whitish because hyaline. The sides 

 of the first three segments show obscure whitish marks — all that is 

 left of the bands of the 9 • The venter resembles the upper surface. 

 The tip is rufous, produced, narrowly truncate. 



The face-markings, differently from most species, are as in the 9 . 

 The antenna? are entirely brown-black. Cheeks unarmed. 



There is a singularly close resemblance between the <? of albovit- 

 tata and laticeps, so that the idea suggests itself that laticeps may be 

 a dimorphic large-headed S of albovlttata. But this could not be 

 taken as proven without positive evidence, or at least some analo- 

 gous case in the genus to guide us. Cresson has referred to a S 

 specimen of texana (megacepliala) in which the head was unusually 

 large, but it may have been a different species. 

 66. Perdita vagans n. sp. 



$ . — Length 4i mm. Head and thorax shining, blue-black, with 

 sparse hairs which are quite long behind the ocelli. Head moder- 

 ately large, rather broader than long, cheeks unarmed, vertex shiny 

 though feebly microscopically granular ; clypeus panama-hat- 

 shaped, with the crown rather high. Cheeks wholly dark ; labrum 

 and mandibles pale yellowish. Clypeus pale yellow with the usual 

 black dots. Dog-ear and supraclypeal marks wanting, though the 

 former are represented by hardly noticeable pallid specks. Lateral 

 pale yellow face-marks subquadrate, nearly the shape of the main- 

 sail of a schooner, though shorter, the upper outer angle (of about 

 50°) about on a level with the antennal sockets. Antennae sepia- 

 brown above, yellowish beneath. Thorax smooth and shining. 

 Tubercles, and a couple of small spots on hind margin of prothorax 

 pale yellow. Pleura not very hairy. Tegulae hyaline. Wings 

 hyaline ; stigma pale yellow, nervures colorless. Marginal cell 

 rather long, its poststigmatal portion a little the longest. Second 

 submarginal nearly triangular, narrowed more than half to mar- 

 ginal. Third discoidal absent. 



All the femora, and the hind tibiae, black with the ends subtesta- 

 ceous yellowish. Anterior and middle tibiae yellowish with a dark 

 patch behind. Tarsi all pale yellowish testaceous. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Abdomen rather broad, dark sepia-brown, without light mark- 

 ings, the distal margins of the segments more or less pallid. Ven- 

 ter pale brown. Tip pale testaceous. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., one on Verbesina encelioides, Sept. 28, 

 1895. 



I had considered the possibility that this might be the $ of as- 

 teris, but it differs too much from it for this to be likely, I think. 



Group of P. albipennis. 



67. Perdita sparsa Fox, Proc. Cal. Ac. Sci., 1893, p. 16. g ? (Hab., Margarita 

 and Magdalena Islands, L. Cal.) 



Collected by Mr. Haines in March, being, therefore, distinct from 

 the other members of the group by its vernal appearance. I have 

 examined a 9 from Magdalena I., March, 1889, one of the types. 

 It is very near to albipennis, and the difference of punctuation, 

 mentioned by Mr. Fox, is not a very satisfactory character. It is, 

 however, readily distinguished thus : 



P. sparsa 

 Nervures dark. 



P. albipennis 9 

 Nervures colorless. 



Stigma margined with brown. Stigma not so margined. 



Size a little smaller. Median mark broadening above 



Median mark of clypeus broad, to a T-shape. 



lance-head-shaped, going to a 



point above. 

 Three yellow bands on abdomen, 



first entire, the other two with 



a linear interruption. 



68. Perdita verbesinse a. •=]>. 



9 . — Length 7 mm. Head and thorax green, abdomen black, 

 wings milky-hyaline. Head rounded, moderately small, unusually 

 pubescent, especially on occiput and cheeks, the hairs on occiput 

 pale fulvous, those on face and cheeks white. Face and vertex 

 brassy-green, vertex rather strongly rugulose, and sparsely punc- 

 tured. Mandibles rufescent, yellowish at base, simple but strongly 

 elbowed ; clypeus black, punctured, with a longitudinal central yel- 

 low line, not always produced to the margins, and a more or less 

 developed yellow patch on each side at anterior margin. Sides of 

 face below, adjacent to clypeus, with a yellow patch. These face- 

 markings are of essentially the same pattern as those o{ albipennis 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Antenna? blackish, a yellowish spot at base of scape beneath, and 

 ilagellum yellowish below. Mouth-parts much elongated, glossa al- 

 most naked, or with the terminal half hairy. 



Thorax shining brassy-green, pubescent as in albipennis, and with 

 the yellow also more or less developed on collar and hind border of 

 prothorax, but not on tubercles, except in the form of a very small 

 spot, which may be absent. Metathorax dark green, sometimes a 

 little bluish. 



Legs dark, pubescent, the hairs on posterior tibia? especially long 

 and dense, as in albipennis ; tips of anterior femora, upper two- 

 thirds of anterior tibia? in front, yellow. Tegula? yellowish-hyaline. 

 Stigma very pale yellowish, nervures almost colorless, the portion of 

 marginal cell beyond stigma conspicuously longer than that below 

 it; second submarginal narrowed about one-half to marginal, third 

 discoidal distinct. 



Abdomen above black, nearly naked, except the last segment, 

 which is densely fringed with white hairs. Fourth segment with 

 two yellow spots, absent in specimens lacking the face-markings 

 (mut. nigrior). Pygidial area conspicuously rufous. Venter dark. 



Mut. 2, nigrior. — Stigma colorless, pale marks of head and 

 thorax absent, pubescence of mesothorax white instead of yellowish, 

 vertex a slightly bluer green, metathorax tinged with blue above, 

 last joint of antenna? with a slight hook, abdomen without yellow 

 spots. (Ckll., 4,908.) 



Mut. 9 > intermedia. — Stigma pale yellow ; vertex rather more 

 brassy, lateral pale marks of clypeus absent. Abdomen with seg- 

 ments 2-4 each with a pair of yellow marks, those on 2 and 3 trans- 

 versely elongate, those on 4 larger and rounder. First taken by C. 

 Rhodes on Verbesina. Sometimes the spots on segment 2 are lack- 

 ing. The lateral pale marks of clypeus may also be more or less 

 developed. 



$ . — Head larger aud broader, cheeks strongly bulging below < 

 but not spined ; antenna? with the scape and funicle black above 

 and yellow beneath, flagellum orange with the first two joints black 

 or blackish above. Lower corners of face, and clypeus, yellow, the 

 clypeus with two longitudinal black marks, and a black dot on the 

 outside of each, after the manner of P. numeraia. In some exam- 

 ples the clypeus is black with a median longitudinal yellow line, 

 and the lower corners broadly yellow, the yellow sometimes enclos- 

 ing a black spot near its upper limit. (Ckll., 4,906, 5,054.) Pro- 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



thorax without any yellow, except on collar above. Tarsi mostly 

 pale, in addition to the pale leg-markings of the 9 . Ends of mid- 

 dle tibia? also pale. 



Abdomen without the two spots of the 9 * but the distal margins 

 of the segments hyaline, with narrow dull yellowish bands, broadly 

 emarginate on each side proximally. 



Mut. S , metadata. — Hind margin of prothorax with two small 

 yellow marks. (One on Verbesina encelioides, Sept. 28th.) 



Mut. $ ,cijanella. — Size small. Metathorax blue. (One on &/• 

 ianthus annuus, Sept. 21st). This agrees with true S verbesince in 

 the dull front, orange flagellum, absence of spots on hind border of 

 prothorax, etc. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., abundant on flowers of Verbesina en- 

 celioides, Sept. 11th to 20th of October. On Sept. 28th, after wet 

 weather, they were freely copulating on the flowers. One had been 

 caught by a Phymata. On Sept. 21st, a 9 of mut. intermedia and 

 the $ mut. cyanella were taken on Helianthus annuus. 



69. Perdita albipennis Cr.. Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1868, p. 386. ? (Hab.. New 

 Mexico, < lolorado). 



cf. Perdita hyalina Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1S78. p. 68. (Hab., Colorado). 



The original type of albipennis was taken in 1867 by Dr. Samuel 

 Lewis, on a journey from Fort Wallace, Colo., to Fort Craig, X. M. 

 The types of hyalina were taken by Messrs. Ridings and Morrison. 

 In the latter part of July, 1895, I took the typical form, in both 

 sexes, on flowers of Helianthus annuus at La Junta, Colorado. The 

 males have the flagellum mostly orange, spots on hind margin of 

 prothorax, front shiny. P. hyalina is apparently a slight variety. 

 Var. helianthi. 



$ . — Differs from verbesince $ by its comparatively shining 

 front, blackish flagellum, and two spots on hind border of prothorax. 

 Differs from albipennis $ by having the yellow marking on abdo- 

 men as in verbesince, and the dark flagelium. 



9 . — Abdomen striped as in albipennis, from which it is hardly 

 to be distinguished. In helianthi the stigma, when well colored, is 

 lemon-yellow, while in albipennis it becomes pale orange, and is 

 quite large. From verbesina, the 9 helianthi differs by its well- 

 striped abdomen, and the head is a little larger. 



The var. helianthi is occasionally taken (at least the 9 s) on 1'er- 

 besina encelioides (Oct. 5th, etc.), at Las Cruces. N. M., but it is the 

 usual form in that locality on Helianilnis annuus i^Sept. 22d, etc.). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Of 46 9 s from Verbesina, 43 are verbesince and 3 helianthi. The 

 The earliest date for helianthi is July 29, 1893. (Ckll., 339, a $ .) 

 On Aug. 26, 1893, I took both sexes at Juarez, Mexico ; these were 

 recorded as albipennis and hyalina in Ann. Mag. N. Hist., Feb., 

 1895, p. 206. 



Mut. $ , pasonis. — Length 8$ mm. Resembles verbesince in its 

 dull front and the absence of spots on hind margin of prothorax. 

 Resembles typical albipennis by the absence of yellow on the abdo- 

 men. Resembles helianthi by the dark flagellum which is black 

 above, dull testaceous below. Maxillary palpi with the last four 

 joints practically equal. Front and rnesothorax olive-green, cheeks 

 and metathorax greenish-blue or prussian-green, in strong contrast. 

 Tip of abdomen unusually broad. Marginal cell somewhat longer 

 than usual. 



I took one specimen of this at El Paso, Texas, Aug. 25, 1893. I 

 was a little perplexed whether to refer it to verbesince or albipennis. 

 Mr. Fox named it hyalina Cr., and indeed it must come very near 

 the form so named by Cresson, which bad the dark flagellum, 

 though the head and thorax were bluish-green. 

 Var. $ lingualis. 



Length about 10 mm. Abdomen above with yellow bands on 

 segments 2-4, the first two narrowly interrupted in the middle, the 

 last two failing some distance before the lateral margin. Metatho- 

 rax dark blue, head dark blue-green, rnesothorax and scutellum 

 dark olive-green. Front moderately shiny. Hind border of pro- 

 thorax marked with yellow. Stigma inclining to pale orange. Sec- 

 ond submarginal cell not narrowed half to marginal. Flagellum 

 dark. Clypeus yellow witb two black blotches above, sufficient 

 to mark out the yellow T. 



The above characters are probably, in part, individual ones, but 

 the glossa is very conspicuously hairy all along, thus differing from 

 that of helianthi, albipennis type, and verbesince, in which it is com- 

 paratively naked, except the terminal half in some examples of ver- 

 besince. When using a compound microscope to more accurately 

 determine the character of the glossa, I was surprised to find also a 

 difference in the maxillary palpi. In lingualis the last two joints 

 of these palpi are short and of equal length, while the two before 

 them are long and also equal. In helianthi the last joint is long, 

 the two before it short and equal, and the two before them long and 

 equal to one another and to the last. 



The var. lingualis is founded on a single 9 from Fort Collins, 

 Colorado, Aug. 8, 1895. (Baker.) 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The known range of P. albipennis is greatly extended by a 9 

 sent to me by Mr. Fox, caught in Nowlin Co., South Dakota. The 

 name of the collector does not appear on the label. The clypeus is 

 marked practically as in lingualis, but the glossa is not hairy. 

 Stigma pale orange. Second submarginal cell narrowed fully one- 

 half to marginal. 



Since the above was written, Mr. Fox has examined for me Cres- 

 son's types of hyalina ( $ ), and reports that one has the abdominal 

 marks as in verbesinaz and helianthi ; but the other must be held to 

 be the true type, as Cresson does not mention the marks. The form 

 above, described as pasonis, has only a very small clypeal mark, so 

 it is in all respects very similar to what we must call albipennis var. 

 hyalina (Cr.). 



Many years ago, P. albipennis was taken by Belfrage in Bosque 

 Co., Texas. (Cresson, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1872, p. 261.) This is 

 a little east of the 98th meridian. 

 70. Perdita lepachidis n. sp., or race. 



$ . — Length about 6 \ mm. Resembles the $ of albipennis, but 

 head and thorax brassy-green, not at all bluish-green. Vertex 

 quite densely and deeply punctured. Clypeal markings reduced to 

 a yellow median line and yellow lower corners, occasionally the 

 whole anterior margin of clypeus yellow, connecting with the longi- 

 tudinal line. Mandibles simple. Metathorax rather inclined to 

 bluish. Wings and abdomen as in S albipennis. 



The flagellum is orange, the two spots on the hind margin of pro- 

 thorax are feebly developed, the front is fairly shiny, not nearly so 

 dull as in verbesince. 



Hab. — On flowers of Lepaclvjs tagetes (James), Santa Fe, N. M., 

 July 30, 1895, and Socorro, N. M., June 29th. I do not know how 

 late it flies, but the Lepachys is over sooner than the Verbesina or 

 Helianthus. The characters of this species or race are flight, but 

 constant in the specimens examined. The 9 is unfortunately un- 

 known. 



Appendix: Species rect ived since the abovi papt r was writ-- 

 Perdita utahensis n. sp. 



$ . — Length 8 mm. Head dark blue-green, thorax brassy-green ; 

 Metathorax green, not blue, but so dark as to be almost black. 

 Head of ordinary size, about as broad as long ; face and cheeks 

 hairy, the hairs dull white, those on occiput gray. Front strongly 

 granular, with moderately close punctures ; facial ridge icith a median 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



linear groove, extending down on the ridge as far as the level of the 

 antennal sockets. Clypeus cocked-hat-shaped, but rounded and 

 broad above, and unusually high, entirely pale yellow except the 

 iimal two dots. Lateral pale yellow face-marks triangular, the in- 

 ner angle opposite the clypeal dot, the upper angle (of about 40°) 

 level with the antennal sockets, on the orbital margin. The inner 

 side of the triangle is straight or nearly so, not notched as in bige- 

 lovice. Supraclypeal and dog-ear marks absent. Mandibles simple, 

 with the basal three-fifths very broad and pale yellowish ; and the 

 terminal two-fifths strongly bent inward, dark rufous-brown, 

 slender, coming to a point. Antenna? with the scape all yellow, fun- 

 icle yellow with a brown blotch above; flagellum brown, dark 

 above, pale below, first joint all yellow below. 



Thorax, including mesothorax and pleura, quite hairy, disc of 

 metathorax bare. The abundant short bristles on the mesothorax 

 have a yellowish tinge. Pleura all dark. Collar and hind border 

 of prothorax broadly, connecting with tubercles, pale yellow. The pro- 

 thorax is thus practically all yellow except a large wedge-shaped 

 portion on each side. Mesothorax shiny. 



Teguke hyaline, with a yellowish opaque subreniform mark. 

 Wings hyaline, nervure* and stigma pale brown, the latter not cen- 

 trally hyaline. Marginal cell long and rather narrow, squarely 

 truncate, its poststigmatal portion much the longest. Second sub- 

 marginal large, not narrowed half to marginal. Third discoidal 

 distinct, rather narrower below than is usual. Legs hairy ; femora 

 yellow, middle femora with a little brown at base below. Tibia? 

 and tarsi pale brown ; anterior tibia? yellow in front and with a yel- 

 low streak behind. 



Abdomen above with about equally broad dull yellow and black 

 bands, the latter five in number, but the last not so well-defined. 

 First segment with an oblique black mark on each side before the 

 band. The first band touches on each side a black longitudinal 

 groove such as is seen on the side of the second segment in luieola 

 9 . The second and third bands present a small lobe on each side 

 below. The fourth band below has a median projecting tongue. 

 Venter pale dull yellow, broadly mottled with brown medially. 



Hab. — Southwest Utah, collected by Mr. Palm, sent by Mr. C. 

 F. Baker, one specimen. Type in coll. Baker. 



This, the first Perdita recorded from Utah, belongs near albipen- 

 nis, etc., but will be readily recognized by the characters I have 

 italicized. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



THE MOLTING OF BIRDS WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE 

 PLUMAGES OF THE SMALLER LAND BIRDS OF EASTERN 

 NORTH AMERICA. 



BY WITMEE STONE. 



The lack of definite information regarding the seasonal plumages 

 of our birds which characterizes most of the works on North Amer- 

 ican ornithology, as well as the scarcity of recorded facts relative to 

 the methods by which the plumages are assumed, must have im- 

 pressed all who have had occasion to seek for information upon 

 these subjects. This is unquestionably due, in a great measure, to 

 the scarcity, in collections, of molting specimens and adults in fall 

 or winter plumage. Molting specimens are only to be obtained dur- 

 ing July and August in this latitude, and collecting at this season 

 is not only difficult on account of the retiring habits of the birds 

 during the period of molt, but also exceedingly unpleasant, being 

 the height of our hot season. Furthermore, professional collectors 

 have not been encouraged to collect molting birds since the most 

 marketable specimens are full-plumaged spring birds. To this 

 cause, too, is probably due the great scarcity of North American 

 birds from the tropics, showing the progress and nature of the early 

 spring molt, since collectors visiting these regions have paid more 

 attention to securing fine specimens of the native species. 



In view of the state of our knowledge of molts and seasonal plum- 

 ages and the scattered nature of the literature bearing upon the 

 subject, I have prepared the following pages, more with the hope 

 of attracting attention to this branch of ornithological investigation, 

 than of assuming to present a finished treatise. 



For some years past I have been paying special attention to the 

 acquisition of a series of molting specimens of our eastern North 

 America birds and my own collection, together with that of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, furnishes a consider- 

 able amount of such material. I have also examined a large 

 number of specimens in the United States National Museum, and 

 additional series have been kindly loaned by Mr. Robert Ridgway 

 of the above institution, Mr. "Win. Brewster, of Cambridge, Mass., 

 and Dr. J. A. Allen of the American Museum of Natural History. 



In spite of this, however, I have frequently been confronted with 

 questions which can only be settled by the acquisition of additional 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



material. Owing to this lack of specimens, I have no doubt that 

 alterations will have to be made in my accounts of the molt in 

 several species, in the light of future investigation. I nevertheless 

 think it desirable to publish, at once, such information as I have 

 collected, as a basis for future work. 



In the first part of this paper will be found a general account of the 

 methods of plumage change, based upon my studies, and all state- 

 ments will be understood to refer only to the groups here under con- 

 sideration. As no general paper on molting has appeared recently, 

 it seemed best to treat the subject at some length in this connection; 

 but it must be understood that I do not claim originality for all the 

 statements given below as many of the facts have long been known. 

 I have, however, made no statements that have not seemed to be 

 verified by my own investigations. The second part consists of brief 

 accounts of the molts and seasonal plumages of most of the smaller 

 land birds of eastern North America, from the Cuckoos through 

 the Passeres in the order of the American Ornithologists' Union 

 Check List. The Raptores, Columba?, Gallinse and all the Water 

 Birds have been omitted for want of sufficient material for their 

 proper study, though they will probably exhibit still more interest- 

 ing facts than those furnished by the groups here under consideration. 



The difficulties that present themselves in a study of this nature 

 are many. Chief among them is the impossibility of telling the age 

 of most of the specimens upon which we must base our investigation. 

 The study of live birds is, of course, out of the question, and even 

 were it possible the results would not prove satisfactory, as it has 

 been shown that plumage changes in captive birds are often abnor- 

 mal. 



Thrown back upon a study of prepared skins, our only method of 

 telling what year in the life of the bird a certain plumage represents, 

 is by having a sufficient series of specimens, taken while actually in 

 the molt, to connect the various known plumages. Such series are 

 at present very hard to obtain, as has already been stated, and we 

 are, therefore, often forced to judge from comparison of series taken 

 before and after the molts, which is of course much less satisfactory. 

 Many specimens, however, which are apparently not molting, often 

 show traces of an old plumage which has just been lost or a new one 

 just appearing, when the feathers are carefully raised on various 

 parts of the body; and much of my information has been gained 

 from such specimens. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



It is generally considered, and in many cases actually proven, 

 that the most perfect and brilliantly plumaged individuals of a 

 species are the oldest, or at least are birds of several years of age, 

 and I have followed this idea in treating of the species in the latter 

 part of the present paper. It is, however, quite likely that certain 

 individuals, whether from excessive vitality or some other cause, 

 assume the adult dress at an earlier period in their life than others 

 and that certain other individuals never attain the highest develop- 

 ment of plumage coloration exhibited by the species. 



The scarcity of adult birds in winter plumage (i. e. the dress 

 assumed at the end of the breeding season) has already been men- 

 tioned. The fact that the number of these birds taken in September 

 and October is often so remarkably small as compared with the 

 birds of the year, seems to me good evidence that they not only start 

 on their southward migration sooner than the young, but that they 

 make a more continuous journey with fewer and shorter stops. 



The difference in the numbers of these birds taken by autumn col- 

 lectors is real and not imaginary. Mr. C. W. Beckham in 1887 called 

 especial attention to it 1 , giving the above explanation. He stated 

 that between Sept. 1 and Nov. 22, 1886. he collected 367 birds of 

 which 348 were birds of the year, the determination of age being 

 based upon examination of the skeleton. In the fall series that I have 

 examined, where the difference between the bird of the year and 

 adult was clearly indicated by the plumage, I find the proportion 

 of old birds very small ; but I think that careful collecting carried 

 on through August will result in the discovery of a large number 

 of adult birds present at that time, which leave before the usual fall 

 collecting begins. 



As a result of the studies given in detail farther on, the following 

 generalizations may be made : 

 I. The annual molt at the close of the breeding season is a physio- 

 logical necessity and is common to all birds. 

 II. The spring molt and striking changes of plumnge effected by 

 abrasion are not physiological necessities and their extent is de- 

 pendent upon the height of development of coloration in 

 the adult plumage, and does not necessarily bear any relation 

 to the systematic relationships of the species. 



It naturally follows that closely related species may differ 

 materially in the number and extent of their molts, aud that 



1 Auk, 1S87, p. 79. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



males and females of the same species differ greatly in this 

 respect when the nuptial plumage of the adult male is highly- 

 developed as compared with that of the female or with its own 

 winter plumage. 



III. The amount of change effected in the plumage at any partic- 

 ular molt varies considerably in different individuals of the 

 same species and sex. 



IV. Some species which have a well marked spring molt in their 

 first and second years may discontinue it afterwards, when the 

 adult plumage has once been acquired. And, on the other 

 hand, some individuals may continue to molt in the spring, 

 while others of the same species cease to do so. 



V. The remiges are molted less frequently than any other part of 

 the plumage. As a rule, they are only renewed at the annual 

 molt (exception Dolichonyx). 

 VI. Variability in the order of molt in the remiges and presence or 

 absence of molt in the flight feathers at the end of the first 

 summer are generally family characters i. e., Ceryle differs from 

 any other species treated of in this paper in the order of molt in 

 the primaries. All Picida? and all Icterida? except Icterus, (and 

 Dolichonyx ?) molt the flight feathers with the rest of the first 

 plumage. None of the Oscines except Icteridse (as above), some 

 (all?) Hirundinidse, Otocoris and Cardinalis molt the flight 

 feathers at this time. 

 Some other exceptions to the above statements no doubt occur, 

 but they cover the vast majority of cases. 



In connection with the second statement attention should be called 

 to Ammodramus sandwichensis savanna which has practically the same 

 plumage at all seasons, but which has an extensive molt of the body 

 plumage in spring. Melospiza fasciata, which closely resembles it in 

 plumage at all seasons, has scarcely a trace of spring molt. Ammo- 

 dramus caudacutus is the only other species that shows any consider- 

 able spring molt, and in which the sexes are not strikingly different. 

 As stated above, the number and extent of the molts do not of 

 necessity bear any relation to the systematic position of the species. 

 The Fringillidse include species which exhibit the simplest series of 

 molts as well as some examples of the most complicated molting 

 known among the Passeres. The species of certain families do show 

 practical uniformity in their molts, but in such cases there is also 

 uniformity in the relative development of plumage of the sexes. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The Icteridse exhibit the greatest number of exceptions to the 

 general rules of molting and are more complicated in their molts 

 than any other family. In most families complicated molting is 

 the exception, in the Icteridse it is the rule. 



ORDER OF MOLT. 



The molt is occasioned by the growth of new feathers from the 

 old papillae, each new feather forcing out the old one on its tip. The 

 point of attachment, however, is so brittle that the old feather is 

 almost immediately broken off, but in young birds molting from the 

 first plumage into their winter plumage, the old feathers are not 

 infrequently found still attached to the tips of the new ones. A young 

 Meadow Lark, Sturnella magna, in my collection shows this very 

 nicely, and Mr. William Palmer mentions a young Hooded Warbler, 

 Sylvania m It 'rata, in which the down of the nestling was to be seen 

 at the tip of the first-plumage feather while it was in turn attached 

 to the new feather of the winter plumage (PI. IV, figs. 5, 6). 



The feathers are, of course, not all shed at once, but the new 

 feathers on certain parts of the body have nearly completed their 

 growth before those on the other parts make their appearance. 



The first body-feathers to appear, in our passeriue birds at least, 

 are those of the abdominal tracts, forming a conspicuous V-shaped 

 patch against the oid plumage of the rest of the lower surface. 

 Almost coincident with these appear the feathers of the inter- 

 scapulary region and shortly afterward those of the throat and 

 crown ; there is, however, a good deal of variation in the order of 

 appearance of the other body feathers (in fact, of all, after the 

 development of the abdominal tracts) in different species and also, 

 I think, a good deal of individual variation. This will be seen in the 

 table on page 115. 



In the molting of the wings, the feathers are shed one or two at a 

 time, and symmetrically from the two wings. The first of the quill 

 feathers to molt are the two innermost primaries which are probably 

 shed at almost the same time, as they are at nearly all stages of about 

 the same size (PI. IV, figs. 1, 2 and 3). Following these the prim- 

 aries are shed at short intervals, one at a time, finishing with the 

 outermost. The only exceptions that I have noticed to this order 

 are in the Belted Kingfisher, Ceryle alcyon, and the Snow Bunting. 

 Plectrophenax nivalis. 



2 The Auk. 1894, i>. 287. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



The Kingfisher is strikingly different from any other bird exam- 

 ined, in that the first wing feather molted is the fourth primary 

 followed successively by the third, second and first (PI. V, fig. 3). 

 Three specimens taken at Sicamous, British Columbia, July 18, 1892> 

 show precisely the same order of molt and are in almost the same 

 stage. How the molt proceeds after the first primary is shed, I am 

 unable to say, though the fifth is probably the next to be renewed, 

 followed by the others in regular order inward. 



One male Piranga erythromelas shows the 7th and 8th primaries 

 molted first, followed by the 6th ; while the 9th was shed simultane- 

 ously with the 5th. This, however, seems to have been an individ- 

 ual exception. 



In the Snow Buntings two molting females (Disko, Greenlaud, 

 Aug. 11th) show that the innermost primary is lost first, followed 

 by the next four almost simultaneously and then the others in rapid 

 succession. The loss of all these feathers occurs so nearly at the 

 same time, that all but two of the old primaries are shed before any 

 of the new ones have grown as long as the secondaries (PL V, fig. 4). 



The first secondary feather to be molted is the outermost, followed 

 by the others in regular order. The secondaries, however, do not 

 begin to molt until the primaries have nearly all been renewed, the 

 first new secondary appearing simultaneously with the 4th or 5th 

 primary — i. e. when only three or four of the old primaries remain 

 (PL V, fig. 5). 



The first tertial generally appears a little before the first secondary. 



The primaries and secondaries seem to be the most persistent of 

 the bird's feathers, and when they are shed, there is always, so far 

 as I have been able to ascertain, a complete molt. 



The tertials on the other hand are frequently renewed independ- 

 ently of the other wing feathers during the spring, when there is a 

 partial molt in some species. 



As regards the molt of the tail, it has generally been stated that 

 the feathers are shed symmetrically and successively a pair at a time 

 while this may be true it is nevertheless a fact that in many, prob- 

 ably most, of our smaller land birds, the molts of the successive pairs 

 occur in such rapid succession that the bird is for a brief time prac- 

 tically tail-less, and the half grown feathers appear to be all of nearly 

 the same size as in the case of the first tail of the nestling, when 

 partly grown. In other words the first pair of new tail-feathers does 

 not reach a functional length before the last pair of old feathers is 

 shed. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



In cases where there is an appreciable difference in the time of 

 shedding the different pairs of tail-feathers, it is the general rule 

 that the outermost pair is the last to be shed, and birds are not 

 infrequently found with the new central pair of tail-feathers half- 

 grown, while the old outermost pair is still retained (PI. V, fig. 2). 

 The swallows are especially good examples of this, as the molt of 

 the tail in this group seems to be very gradual (PI. IV, fig. 4). 



In Quiscalus and some other birds the central pair is the last to 

 be molted, all the others having nearly completed their growth 

 before the old middle feathers are shed. 



In the Woodpeckers the molt begins with the pair next to the 

 middle 3 and extends outward while the central pair is the last to 

 be shed (PI. V, fig. 1). 



In this family the tail has a particular function, — i. e. in climb- 

 ing ; hence the slow molt, as the birds would be at a great disadvan- 

 tage if the whole tail was lost at once. The central pair of feathers 

 are of particular importance, and the old ones are, therefore, 

 retained until the new quills of the next pair have become suffi- 

 ciently developed to temporarily take their place during their own 

 renewal. 



The tail-feathers generally correspond with the primaries and 

 secondaries in the number of molts which they undergo during the 

 year, but in some cases where there is a spring molt of the body 

 feathers, together with the tertials, there is also a complete molt of 

 the tail, while the primaries and secondaries are not renewed. This 

 takes place — in certain individuals at least — in the Sharp-tailed 

 Finch, Ammodramus caudacutua. 



Another peculiarity of the tail-feathers is their renewal at times 

 other than those of regular molt, when they have been lost through 

 accident. This does not occur in the wing feathers so far as I am 

 aware. Perhaps owing to the fact that the wing feathers are so 

 much more firmly rooted than any of the other feathers, they are 

 rarely if ever lost through accident, and hence the necessity for 

 renewal does not arise; while the tail-feathers on other hand are 

 the most frequently lost of any of the feathers, for, owing to their 

 position, they are often caught and pulled out by beasts or birds 

 of prey. 



Having considered the order of the molt in the body-feathers, wing 

 and tail separately, it remains to consider the relative time of molt 



3 In one specimen of Dryobotes pubescena examined, this pair and the next 

 outer pair were shed simultaneously. 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



115 



in the three. So far as I can judge from the material that I have, 

 the first two or three primaries are generally shed before the feathers 

 of the abdominal tracts are expanded and the outermost primary 

 is lost at about the time that the body-plumage is completely renewed, 

 while the tail in the majority of species is shed just previous to 

 this — i. e. when one or two of the old primaries still remain. 



A knowledge of these relations is very valuable in determining 

 whether early fall specimens are adults or birds of the year. In the 

 former the outer primary will be found not quite completely grown, 

 or at least with remains of the embryonic sheath at its base, while in 

 the birds of the year no trace of recent growth or immaturity will 

 be found in the wiug or tail feathers, except in a few species which 

 molt the remiges and rectrices of the first plumage in the fall. 4 



As regards species in which the molt of the tail occurs gradually the 

 first tail feathers are shed about the same time as the sixth primary, 

 while the last are shed simultaneously with the last or next to last 

 primary. 



In the TyrannidaB, the body feathers begin to molt sometimes 

 before the first flight feather is shed, and in young Sphyrapicus 

 much of the first plumage is retained till long after the flight feath- 

 ers have been renewed. 



The following tables show the relative molting of the feathers in 

 some of the specimens examined, and referred to above : — 



I. RELATIVE MOLT OF BODY PLUMAGE. 



New Plumage 

 on Breast. 



Piranga erythronielas, 



1,904, W. S I just appearing 



Sturnella magna, 1,191,1 



W. S nearly complete. 



Colapt«s auratus, 1,532, 



W. S nearly complete. 



Quiscalus quiscula, l'A, 



W. S nearly complete. 



Plectrophenax nivalis, 



26,987, A.N. S complete. 



Dolichonyx orvzivorus, 



32,783, A. M."N. H complete. 



Interscapulum. Top of Head. 



Throat. 



just appearing. 



complete. 



sprouting, 

 just appearing, 

 half renewed. 



complete. 



half renewed, 

 half renewed. 

 just appearing. 



no molt. 



just appearing. 



complete. 



just sprouting. 



no molt. 

 just appearing. 



no molt. 



jusl appi aring. 



center of abdo- 

 men not molted. 



NUMBER AND TIME OF MOLTS. 



When the young bird emerges from the egg, it is enveloped in a 

 more or less complete covering of down ; in ptilopaedic birds the cover- 



4 In any case, a specimen showing molt or evidence of recent molt in the 

 body-feathers, while the rectrices and remiges present no signs of molt, may 

 be regarded with certainty as a bird of the year. 




116 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 

 II. SHOWING RELATIVE MOLT OF RECTBICES. 



[1896. 



Adults in Annual Molt. 



Mirldle 



Dryobates rillosus, 26,644, A. NT. S Old. 



Dryobates pubescens, 30,750, A. N. S Old. 



ates rillosus, 26,646, A. X. S Old. 



Colaptes auratus, 26,094, A. N. S Old. 



- auratus, 26,693, A. N. ri 



Dryobates pubescens, 26,651, A. N. 8 5 



2.5 

 2.0 



F.G. 



F.G. 



F. G. 



2.5 

 2.0 



F.G. 



F.G. 



F.G. 



.1 



F.G. 

 F. G. 

 F. G. 



F.G. 



Tacbycineta bicolor, 28,595, A. X. S 



Tachycineta bicolor, 1,660, W. S F. 



Tachycineta bicolor, 1,921, W. S 



Old. 

 Old. 

 1.0 



Cyanocitta stelleri, 30,923, A. X. S 



Spizella pusilla, 1.170, W. S 



phenax 1 1 i \ ;il i- , 26,987, A. N. - 2.0 



Passerina cyanea, 28,510, A. X. S 1 .5 



Myiarchua cinerascens, 29. }•">'., A. X. S F.G. 



Lanius ludovicianus, 1,429, W. s F. o. 



Seiurus ourocapillus, 1,1:18. W. 8 1 



Icterus galbula, 28,096, A. X. S F.G. 



Meloepiza fasciata, 1,667, W. S F.G. 



Aimnodramus caudacutus, 1,155, W. S F.G. 



Old. 

 1.5 

 2.0 

 1.5 

 1.0 

 1.8 

 .1 

 .1 



F.G. 



F.G. 



Old. 



1.7 



1.5 



1.5 



.2 



F.G. 

 F.G. 



Old. 



Old. 



1.7 

 2.2 



.5 



.6 

 .2 

 .1 



Quiscalus quiscula, 2S.117, A. X. 8 Old. 



3.6 



2.0 



1.0 



The four divisions represent four styles of molting. 



Numerals denote the amount in inches-that the new feathers lack of their full growth. 

 " F. G." denotes " Full Grown." Dashes show that the old feather has been shed but the 

 new one has ool yel appeared. 



til. SHOWING RELATIVE MOLT OF WING FE OTHERS. 



Molothrus ater, 28,028, 



A. X S.* 



Agelaius phoeniceus, 



9, W. s 



I )i i bonyx oryzi 



28,000, A. N. 8 



Piranga erythromelas, 



1,904, W. S 



Colaptes auratus, 1,532, 



W > 



Quiscalus quiscula, 1,900, 



\V. S.* 



Quiscalus quiscula, 1,541, 



W. S * 



Sturnella magna, 1,191, 



W. S 



Chaetura pelaglca, 1,521, 



W. s 



Plectrophenax nivalis, 



26,987, A. X. s , 



Dolichonyz oryzivorus, 



32,783, A. M.N. II.. + 

 Melospiza fasciata, 1,61 



w.s 



Tachycineta bicolor, 



1,921, W. S 



Last 



Primary 



Shed ' 



Molt in 

 Secondaries. 



none. 



none. 



none. 



none. 



first % gr. 



first sprouted. 



first H gr. 



none. 



none. 

 1st and 6th. 

 nearly GOlpp. 

 nearly comp. 



Molt in 

 Tertials. 



Moll in 



complete. 



nunc. complete, 



half grown, half grown. 

 | mid. shed. none. 



I % grown, j complete. 



sprouted. complete. 



sprouted. complete. 

 inner spr't'd complete. 



sprouted, partly molted 



complete. complete. 



complete. complete. 



complete. complete. 



complete. complete. 



Molt in 

 Coverts. 



nearly comp. 

 just begun. 



none. 



just begun. 



complete. 



nearly comp. 



nearly comp. 



nearly comp. 



partly molted. 



partly molted. 



complete. 



com] 



complete. 



* Molt from tir--t plumage, t Spring molt. 

 All others are adults in annual molt. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



ing is complete, while in psilopredic birds it is but very slightly 

 developed. In pnecocial species the downy dress is retained for a 

 considerable time before the first feathers appear, but in altricial 

 birds it is soon replaced by what is known as the "first plumage." 

 The remiges and rectrices of the first plumage are usually the same 

 as those of the adult, but the body feathers, while of the ordinary 

 structure, are much more plumulaceous than the covering of the 

 adult. 



This first plumage is retained for some time (three or four 

 months) in some species, but in others it is very soon replaced by a 

 more permanent winter plumage in which all the feathers are of the 

 same structure as those of the adult. The entire body plumage is 

 molted at this time as well as most of the wing coverts ; but the 

 rectrices, remiges and the primary coverts are, in the great majority 

 of our smaller land birds, retained until the next annual molt. 



The species in which all the first plumage feathers are molted are 

 the following: Otocoris alpedris, Cardinalis cardinalis, Agelaius 

 phceniceus, Quiscalus quiscula, Molothrvs ater, Stumella magna, Scole- 

 cophagus carolinus, Tachycineta bieolor and all the Woodpeckers. 

 Of Ceryle, Trochilus, Chcetura and a few Oscines I have been unable 

 to examine sufficient specimens to speak with certainty on this point. 



In early spring, probably about the time of revival of sexual 

 activity and immediately preceding the vernal migration, there is in 

 the vast majority of birds a more or less complete molt. Some- 

 times, as in the case of the Bobolink, the change is absolutely com- 

 plete, but as a rule the remiges and rectrices are not renewed, 

 while in other species the molt may only amount to the acquisition 

 of a few new feathers on the throat or sides of the head. The 

 tertials are often renewed at this time and seem to correspond more 

 with the body feathers than with those of the wing as regards their 

 molting. It is at this season that many birds acquire marks of 

 maturity which are lacking during the first winter of their life, as for 

 instance, the yellow superciliary and loral stripes of certain finches, 

 while markings characteristic of the breeding season as opposed to 

 the winter, also appear at the time of spring molt. 



In studying the species of our smaller land birds which molt in 

 the spring it will be noticed that of necessity, species which differ 

 radically in their spring and fall plumage, have the most complete 

 spring molt ; whde, as a rule, in those in which the plumage is nearly 

 the same throughout the year, the spring molt is least marked. The 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Savanna Sparrow and Sharp-tailed Finch are interesting exceptions 

 to the latter statement. 



The annual molt which occurs at the close of the breeding season, 

 in late summer or early fall, is common to all birds, and is generally- 

 coincident with the molt of the first plumage of the young birds of 

 the first broods, varying, however, in this respect in different species. 

 The annual molt is always complete, and when the new feathers 

 are assumed, the plumage is richer in color and fuller than at any 

 other time. In the breeding plumage, the colors may be in stronger 

 contrast, but this is generally due to the wearing away of the blend- 

 ing colors of the tips of the feathers 5 which necessarily makes the 

 plumage rougher. 



CHANGE OF COLOR BY ABRASION. 



During the time intervening between two molts, the feathers 

 undergo a certain amount of abrasion. In such birds, specimens taken 

 just before the annual molt, present a very dilapidated appearance, 

 and the abrasion, combined with bleaching, has generally altered the 

 appearance of the plumage very materially from that of the preced- 

 ing fall. 



While this effect of abrasion is seen in the plumage of all birds 

 just before the annual molt, the feathers of some are so constructed 

 as to render possible a complete change in the color of the exposed 

 plumage by abrasion, long before the time when the effects of the 

 general wear and tear above described are apparent. These feathers 

 have their terminal portion differently colored from the basal, so that 

 when the plumage is in its normal " shingled " position, only the 

 terminal part of each feather is exposed, ami the general color of 

 the plumage is the same as this portion of the feather. By the loss 

 of this terminal portion, the differently colored base of the feather 

 comes into view and the general color of the plumage is thus com- 

 pletely changed (PI. IV, fig. 7). This result is attained by general 

 wear and tear and also, doubtless, by the agency of the bird itself in 

 preening its feathers. 



The differently colored tips to these feathers wear off very 

 rapidly, and generally disappear entirely before any perceptible 

 wear is noticeable on other parts of the plumage which are uniform 

 in color. This would indicate that the terminal portions of these 

 feathers are more brittle than the basal part, especially as the breadth 



5 Except when a complete spring molt occur-. 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



119 



of the terminal portion varies on different feathers, while the abra- 

 sion always takes place exactly to the line of demarcation of the 

 colors. 



In the body feathers, the terminal part is less perfectly pennaceous 

 in structure than the base, and many of the barbs are entirely free 

 at their tips, which naturally makes them more liable to rapid 

 abrasion down to the point where the strongly pennaceous structure 

 begins. 6 This is particularly well seen in the Snow Bunting. A 



Fig. 1. Tips of several barbs from Fig. 2. Same, further enlarged, with 

 feather of Snow Bunting showing the the barbs undisturbed showing the in- 

 difference in structure between the terlocking of the barbules in the black 

 light and dark portions ( greatly en- area. Somewhat diagrammatic, after 

 larged ) Photograph by Dr. A. P. photograph by Dr. Brown. 

 Brown. 



microscopical examination of these feathers, conducted at my request 

 by my friend Dr. A. P. Brown, shows further that the hooklets on 

 these terminal parts are fewer in number and less perfectly de- 

 veloped, while the basal portion of the feather where the dark 

 pigment begins is thicker and probably tougher in structure, the 

 barbules and hooklets being here well developed (Fig. 1 and 2). 



6 A paper by Mr. Frank M. Chapman has appeared since the above was written 

 " On the Changes of Plumage in the Snowflake, Plectrophenax nivalis," Bull. 

 Amer. Mas. Nat. Hist , VIII, pp 9-12. In this he reaches exactly the same 

 conclusions as are here set forth by the writer and Dr. Brown, and the fact 

 that we were working entirely independently gives additional interest to the 

 statements. 




120 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Certain wing feathers show a still more interesting phase of abra- 

 sion. In the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, as is well known, secondaries 

 and tertials in autumn and winter are marked on their edges with 

 spots of white (Plate V, figs. 7, 8), while in the Meadow Lark and 

 Curlews at the same season, many of the feathers have regular tooth- 

 like indentations of lighter color along the sides (Plate IV, figs. 8, 9). 

 By the time the breeding season has arrived these light-colored 

 ai*eas have been completely lost, while the dark parts remain intact, 

 the line of demarcation having been followed as closely as if cut by a 

 pair of scissors, except that some curved lines become straight owing 

 to the whole barb breaking off beyond the light colored area (Plate 

 IV, fig. 9). In these feathers, both portions are equally pennaceous, 

 and do not exhibit any difference in structure, so that we must regard 

 the light portions as peculiarly brittle. It is a noticeable fact 

 that in all the birds that have been examined, the black feathers 

 or black parts of a feather seem less subject to abrasion than those 

 of any other color. 



In most cases where marked abrasion takes place, the lighter tips 

 serve to produce the blended appearance characteristic of the winter 

 plumage of all birds, while their loss brings out the strong contrast 

 of colors characteristic of the breeding season, and produced in 

 other species by actual molt. 



The case of the Bobolink is of particular interest in this con- 

 nection, differing from that of any other species, unless it be some 

 individuals of the Rose-breasted Grosbeak. It has a complete 

 spring molt, but instead of assuming the breeding plumage at this 

 time, as in the case of most birds which molt in the spring, it a^umes 

 a dress almost as dull and blended as its winter attire, but which is 

 transformed to the breeding plumage by the abrasion of the long 

 buff tips which adorn all the feathers. 1 



The utility of such a process is difficult to see. The long tips are 

 " acquired to be lost " as it were ; they begin to break off immediately 

 and within two months have disappeared. 



SEASONAL PLUMAG l 3. 



The number of recognizable plumages, which a bird may assume, 



is obviously dependent upon the length of time that is required for 



it to acquire the mature dress. The, simplest ease is where this is 



accomplished when the first-plumage is molted or at the end of the 



7 See Chapman, Auk, 1890, p. 120. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



summer in which the bird is hatched. In such a species then, there 

 are only three plumages: 1. First Plumage. 2. Winter Plumage. 

 3. Nuptial Plumage; — the latter being acquired in early spring, 

 either by actual molt or abrasion. Sometimes it is so like the winter 

 plumage that they can scarcely be distinguished, but this is the 

 exception, for even when no molt takes place, the abrasion gives 

 such a different appearance to the plumage by wearing off the 

 blending shades that the spring and fall birds can easily be separ- 

 ated. 



In other species the Avinter plumage of the young bird is not 

 absolutely like that of the adult, every shade of difference existing 

 from those that are scarcely separable to those that are radically 

 different. 



In such cases there are, of course, four or five recognizable plum- 

 ages: 1. First Plumage. 2. Plumage of First Winter. 3. Plum- 

 age of First Nuptial season. 4. Adult Winter Plumage. 5. Adult 

 Nuptial Plumage. In most species the Adult Nuptial Plumage is 

 assumed at the first spring molt, in which case there will be only four 

 distinct plumages. Sometimes the number of plumages is still further 

 increased by the fact that the bird does not acquire the complete 

 adult dress for three or four years. The changes, however, do not 

 progress as regularly in these instances after the first year, a greater 

 or less amount of the adult plumage being assumed at each molt 

 by different individuals ; so that a large series instead of being 

 divisable into several lots, each characterized by distinctive marks, 

 represents on the contrary a complete gradation from the bird of the 

 year to the adult. Such instances have been made to serve as 

 examples of the alleged change of plumage by direct change in the 

 coloration of the feathers. 



Another point bearing upon the plumages of species that require 

 several years to acquire the mature dress, is the question whether 

 there are not some individuals which never do acquire this plumage. 

 The fact of the remarkably small proportion of birds in fully adult 

 plumage in such species as the Purple Finch, Pine Grosbeak, White- 

 throated Sparrow, etc., lends weight to such a theory, although its 

 actual demonstration is, perhaps, impossible. 



Then again, there are occasional peculiar plumages, which, though 

 they may be abnormal, are nevertheless by no means unique, such 

 as the bright orange plumage of the male Scarlet Tanager, the 

 Black-headed plumage of the female Rose-breasted Grosbeak, and 



9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



the occasional extremely brilliant plumage of the male of the same 

 species, etc. The two latter instances may be considered as : 1. Partial 

 adoption of the characters of male plumage by the female; and 2. 

 Extreme development of color in the male probably due to excessive 

 vitality. 



Another complicated series of plumages pointed out by Mr. F. M. 

 Chapman 8 exists in the case of the Bobolink. In these birds there 

 are four distinct plumages : 1. First Plumage. 2. Winter Plumage. 

 3. Early Spring Plumage. 4. Nuptial Plumage. 9 This early spring 

 plumage is acquired by direct molt, and passes into the Nuptial 

 Plumage by an extensive abrasion of the differently colored tips. 



DIRECT CHANGE OF COLOR IN FEATHERS. 



There have always been, and are to-day, ornithologists who believe 

 thoroughly that feathers actually change their color, and that the 

 change from the winter plumage to the nuptial dress in some species is 

 accomplished solely in this manner without either molt or abrasion. 



Schlegel, one of the greatest exponents of this theory, considered 

 the phenomenon as nearly universal, and Gtitke, another of its staunch 

 supporters, seems to be of much the same mind. Other writers while 

 supporting it, have regarded it as of much less general application 

 and some consider it of very rare occurrence. 



If such a change actually does take place, it would seem strange 

 if it should not play a very important part in plumage-changes, 

 and, if we admit that it does occur in any species, we may as well 

 grant its possibility in a great number. 



The importance of the question warrants a very careful considera- 

 tion, and, in order not to be misunderstood, I may state at the out- 

 set that in spite of the instances that have been cited to illustrate 

 this phenomenon, I have not yet found a single case that cannot be 

 otherwise accounted for, and, cannot, therefore, admit that we have 

 any proof of an actual change of color in a feather apart from what 

 may be produced from abrasion or bleaching. 



In most instances which have been cited in support of this theory, 

 the writers have, it seems to me, fallen into the same error — . 

 they have taken a series of specimens, showing all sorts of mottled 

 intergrades from one plumage to another, as indicating that each 



8 Auk, 1890, p. 120. 



9 If we consider the birds of the year as recognizably distinct from the fall 

 adults we must regard "2" as First Winter Plumage and add "5". Adult 

 Winter Plumage. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



individual bird passed through all those gradations ; or they have 

 taken a series of feathers from different individuals or different parts 

 of the same individual, which show regular gradations from one style 

 of coloration to another, as proof that each feather passes through 

 all those gradations. 



As a matter of fact, these mottled plumages are permanent for the 

 time being, and at each regular molt a greater proportion of the 

 adult plumage is assumed. Scarcely any two individuals, however, 

 correspond exactly in the amount of change that is effected at a given 

 molt ; 10 hence a series of breeding birds taken during the late spring 

 or early summer, representing individuals of different age, will often 

 show a nearly complete series of intergrades between the two styles 

 of plumage, and there will, of course, be no signs of a molt. 



A study of several of the more recent examples that have been 

 brought forward to illustrate the actual change of color in feathers, 

 will be of interest in this connection. 



Dr. R. Bowdler Sharpe, in the Catalogue of Birds in the British 

 Museum, seems to regard this alleged phenomenon as of rather 

 common occurrence, and in some instances goes into much detail 

 with regard to the subject. This is especially the case in treat- 

 ing of Motadlla lugens, 11 in which he claims, not only a change 

 from gray to black in the plumage of the back, but also a remark- 

 able change in the color of the primaries and secondaries from 

 brownish to pure white, the adult plumage being assumed according 

 to Dr. Sharpe's theory, in the first spring. 



With the same material examined by Dr. Sharpe, and a little 

 more showing the molt in progress, Dr. Stejneger 12 shows conclusively 

 that this species requires several years to acquire the fully adult plum- 

 age, and that the changes in the color of the wing feathers is effected 

 by actual molt and not by a change in the color of each individual 

 feather. This shows conclusively the importance of having spec- 

 imens in the molt for examination and comparison, and what a 

 different aspect they may put upon the case. 



While combating the theory of direct color change in Motacilla 



10 It is not intended that only a part of the plumage is changed ; while this 

 may be true of the spring molt, the annual molt is always characterized by a 

 complete change, but, in the cases referred to, part of the new plumage comes 

 in exactly like the old, while in other parts the color of the new plumage is 

 different. 



11 Cat. Bds. Brit. Mas., X, 1885, p. 474. 

 12 Proc U. S. Nat. Mas., 1892, p. 307. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



lugens, Dr. Stejneger, nevertheless admits it in the case of Zantho- 

 pygia nardssina, 13 on what seems to me insufficient evidence. 



This bird he believes changes without molt from an olive plumage 

 to one of brilliant orange-yellow and black, while the wings and tail 

 change from a dull brownish-gray to a deep black. I have examined 

 the series which Dr. Stejneger had in hand, and I fail to see any- 

 thing it in that cannot be found in a similar series of Icterus spurius 

 or any other species that acquires its mature plumage by successive 

 molts, the mottled plumage being permanent for the time. So far 

 as 1 can see, an actual molt of black and yellow feathers might 

 occur in early spring, or patches of them might be acquired at the 

 annual molt at the end of summer. As there are no specimens in 

 Dr. Stejneger's series taken earlier than the 29th of April, and no 

 fall adults, it is hardly justifiable to conclude that the change in 

 color does not take place by a direct molt, either in early spring or 

 in late summer. 



Furthermore, a specimen of the closely allied Z. tricolor?* which 

 agrees very well with Dr. Stejneger's most advanced "transition" 

 specimens, having a few patches of olive-brown feathers above and 

 brown remiges, but otherwise adult, shows by the presence of 

 numerous " pin feathers" that the yellow breast, and the black on 

 the head have just been assumed by direct molt. 



That this specimen is an early spring bird I assume from the fact 

 that the remiges and rectrices show no signs of recent molt, which 

 they would do if it was the annual molt that had just occurred. 



In regard to the remiges and rectrices of Zanthopygia, which Dr. 

 Stejneger thinks change suddenly from dull brown to deep black, 

 precisely parallel cases are to be found in Piranga erythromelaa and 

 Habia ludovidana, and a series of either collected in May or June 

 will show just the same variety of color in the quills as in the 

 of Zanthopygia. 



In these species the dull colored quills are retained during the 

 first spring when the winter body plumage is molted for the adult 

 dress, but at the annual molt the jet black quills are assumed and 

 there is certainly no direct change in the color of the feathers. 



Giitke in his "Heligoland," gives us the most recent endorsement 

 of the theory of actual color-change, a theory of which he was always 

 a strong advocate. The instances which he treats in detail are 



13 Proc U. S. Nat. Mus., L892, p. 334. 

 14 7 ( .»1, Coll. Acad. Nat Sri. 1'hila. 






1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



almost entirely from the water birds, and we are not informed of the 

 exact character of the material which came under his observation, 

 all that we have is his interpretation of the facts. The species to 

 which he calls especial attention are the Dunlin, Knot and Sander- 

 ling. 



" In the Dunlin " he says " the change of colour develops itself 

 in the following manner : In the ash-grey feathers of the back the 

 shaft first becomes black ; this color spreads rapidly over the feath- 

 ers, finally leaving only broad gray margins. The latter at first 

 change to a dull rusty-grey, which, however, subsequently passes 

 into a beautiful ferruginous color. At the same time the dull ash- 

 grey tips of the feathers pass into a whitish-grey, their margins being 

 simultaneously rounded off to their former entirety." 



How such a theory could have been advocated, after the examina- 

 tion of a large series of specimens, I cannot understand, for a series of 

 spring examples of the American Dunlin taken on the coast of New 

 Jersey show the black and rusty feathers coming in abundantly and 

 supplanting the worn gray feathers of the winter plumage. 15 



In the Sanderling Gatke states there is a change from a uniform 

 light gray to a deep black, and from a beautiful ferruginous color 

 to a pure white. Here again spring specimens, from the coast of 

 New Jersey and Florida, show the black and ferruginous plumage 

 molting in and superceding the light gray plumage of winter. 



Gatke says (p. 163) that he " confines his description to what 

 actually takes place, without embarking on any hypothetical con- 

 jectures." In this, however, I cannot agree with him ; he does not 

 claim to have seen the change in color actually take place in any 

 individual feather, and to make the assertion that feathers change 

 from one style of coloration to another when the only facts before 

 him are that he has feathers which represent those styles of coloration, 

 one of which might change to the other, involves entirely too great 

 an assumption. 



In his chapter on "colour-change without moulting" Gatke sup- 

 ports another theory, also originally advanced by Schlegel, but which 



15 Since the present paper was presented to the Academy for publication (see 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1896, p. 12), Mr. P. M. Chapman has published 

 an article on " The Changes of Plumage in the Dunlin and Sanderling" (Bull. 

 Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., VIII, p. 1—8), in which he criticises Gatke's state- 

 ments on the same grounds as above. Here again, it is interesting to note 

 that Mr. Chapman and the writer working independently, arrived at exactly 

 the same conclusions. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Giitke formerly repudiated, and one which other advocates of the 

 " color-change " theory have generally left untouched, i. e., the theory 

 that simultaneously with the change in color there occurs a rebuild- 

 ing of the worn edges' of the feathers which restores all the even 

 contours and gives them the appearance of newly molted feathers. 



The acceptance of the theory of color-change without molt or 

 abrasion, necessitates the adoption of some such theory as this, since 

 the bright spring feathers are generally much more perfect in outline 

 and often in striking contrast to the worn winter plumage from 

 which Sehlegel and Gatke would have us believe they have been 

 produced. A slight knowlege of the development of feathers would 

 tend to show the absurdity of such a theory as this, since the barbs 

 of a feather do not continue to grow out from the shaft like the 

 limbs of a tree, but are really formed from the tip inward toward 

 the shaft. And once being unfolded from the sheath of the " pin 

 feather," no further structural development can possibly take place 

 in them. 



Too many writers have made arbitrary statements and then ques- 

 tioned the accuracy of the investigations of histologists because they 

 did not support them. In investigating these questions,we must 

 accept at the outset the testimony of physiologists and histolo^i-t-. 

 that from the very nature of the structure of a feather it is incapable 

 of renewing its barbs or barbules, and that after the contents of the 

 quill have once dried up there is no connection between the vanes 

 of the feather and the life fluids of the bird. This at once precludes 

 the change of pigment, except by chemical action from without, and 

 it is difficult to see how this should only exert an influence during 

 a certain short period and have no effect at other times. 



It has been suggested that the presence of innumerable bubbles 

 of air would tend to obscure the pigment in a feather and cause it 

 to appear white, while the expulsion of air from a white feather 

 might bring out a dark pigment previously concealed. In the case 

 of the Motaeilla, however, portions of the plumage turn white and 

 other parts black at the same time and it is hard to understand how 

 an external action could affect different feathers in an exactly 

 opposite manner, and if there was proved to be exhalation from the 

 body into the feather, the structure of the feather would preclude 

 a passage of air into the barbs from the quill. It might further be 

 added, that the yellow leathers ot Zanthopygia, which should accord- 

 ing to this theory contain a concealed dark pigment, have really no 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



pigment at all, as has been ascertained by careful microscopical 

 examination by my friend Dr. Thos. H. Montgomery. 



The only instance where I know of an actual change of color in 

 the plumage, except by fading, is in the case of certain delicate pink 

 tints on the breasts of gulls, which disappear after death, but this 

 color, I think, is probably due to a peculiar surface structure which 

 is destroyed or altered by the drying out of the plumage, when 

 removed from contact with water or the oil of the bird. 



PLUMAGES AND MOLTS OF THE SMALLER LAND BIRDS OF 

 EASTERN NORTH AMERICA. 



Below I have recorded such facts as I have been able to gather 

 regarding the molts and plumages of our smaller land birds. 



In a number of species I have been unable to ascertain the exact 

 extent of the molts or their number from lack of necessary material, 

 but have thought it best to give such facts as I have rather than to 

 omit the species altogether. Some species on the other hand I have 

 been able to treat with much detail, and have referred to them 

 in describing others with a similar series of molts. I have as 

 a rule omitted any detailed description of the plumages, as these can 

 be obtained from any of the manuals or general works on North 

 American birds, and have made my remarks as to colors, etc., 

 mainly comparative. 



Where I had sufficient material to warrant it, I have given after 

 each species a list of its plumages, considering three as the smallest 

 number of plumages exhibited by any species. In many, however, 

 the winter and nuptial dresses are practically alike except for a 

 slight abrasion. 



Where male and female are not definitely indicated their molting 

 is the same. 



Family CUCULID^J. 



Coccyzus erythrophthalmus (Wilson). Black-billed Cuckoo. 

 Coccyzus americanus (Linn.). Yellow-billed Cuckoo. 



I have been unable to examine any adult Cuckoos in the molt. 

 The young molt the body plumage the last week in August. I am 

 inclined to think that there is no spring molt in either species. 

 Spring and fall specimens it is true are scarcely distinguishable, but 

 I do not consider the unworn appearance of spring birds as a neces- 

 sary proof that there has been a spring molt, as an examination of 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



late summer specimens, just previous to the annual molt, shows 

 that abrasion produces scarcely any effect in the Cuckoos. The 

 sexes are alike in molts and practically so in plumages. 



Family ALCEDINID^J. 



Ceryle alcyon (Linn.). Belted Kingfisher. 



The Kingfisher presents several peculiarities in its molting and I 

 have not yet been enabled to examine sufficient material to satis- 

 factorily describe it. So far as my material goes I think the rufous 

 edgings to the breast band belong only to the bird of the year, as old 

 birds in the annual molt have the new feathers of the breast band 

 plain bluish slate or slightly edged with white. "Whether the young 

 molt the flight feathers with the rest of their first plumage I cannot 

 say, but the wing feathers of the rufous tipped fall birds are very 

 fresh and perfect, which may be considered evidence that they do. 



That there is a partial molt in early spring is evidenced by the 

 fresh feathers in spring specimens which are in strong contrast to the 

 older worn plumage, especially on the pectoral band. 



The wing feathers of some spring birds are unusually bright with 

 the white tips scarcely worn and one example, (June, 1881, Palo 

 Alto Co., Iowa, No. 26,640, A. N. S.), has the remiges all of this 

 character, except the innermost pair of primaries and one of the 

 secondaries on the leftside, which are very much worn and abraded. 

 This may indicate a spring molt of the wings in some individuals 

 but in the majority it apparently dues not occur. The peculiar 

 order of molt in the primaries has already been noticed. 



Family PICIDJE. 



The North American Woodpeckers, 16 as already pointed out by 

 Mr. Brewster, (Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1878, p. 179), always molt 

 the wing and tail feathers along with the rest of the first plumage. 

 The molt of this plumage, especially on the head and breast, goes on 

 slowly and the birds start on their southward migration before it has 

 been entirely renewed. In some individuals indeed the moltin_ - 

 not completed till well into the winter. 

 Dryobates villosus (Linn.). Hairy Woodpecker. 



Male. — Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



All plumages of this bird arc very similar. There is no spring 

 molt apparent in any specimens examined and but little effect is 



"'And probably all of the family. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



produced by abrasion. Female molts exactly as in the male, but its 

 plumage lacks the red nuchal band. 



Dryobates pubescens (Linn.). Downy Woodpecker. 



Molts and plumages as in the last. Some spring specimens show 

 a renewal of some of the breast feathers, but this may also take place 

 in villoma. A fall specimen of each species exhibits a remarkably 

 worn " moth-eaten" appearance on the breast and flanks probably 

 due to a peculiarity in the habits of these individuals. 



Sphyrapicus varius (Linn.). Yellow-bellied Sapsucker. 



Male. — Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



The molt of the first plumage of the head and breast of this species 

 continues all through the fall and winter and one taken April 8th, 

 (Philadelphia, Pa.), shows a few new feathers appearing on the 

 crown and throat. The winter plumage is, therefore, a mottled one. 

 The breeding bird is hardly different from the full plumaged spring 

 individual, as abrasion produces but little effect. Female molts 

 like the male. Adult plumage differs in having the throat white, 

 some individuals have the crown black, others red; whether this 

 is due to age or purely individuality I cannot determine. 



Ceophloeus pileatas (Linn.). Pileated Woodpecker. 



Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



This species shows but little variation in plumage. There is no 

 spring molt, but the nuptial dress is somewhat abraded and browner 

 than the winter plumage. 



Melanerpes erythrocephalus (Linn.). Red-headed Woodpecker. 



Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



The first plumage is retained for a long time ; of four specimens 

 showing the transition to the adult, only one has data, i, e., Haddon- 

 field, N. J., Dec. 2, 1880, No. 1,405 Coil. W.Stone. This I think is 

 probably the regular time for the molt, as specimens taken in Octo- 

 ber show no signs of a change. The annual molt of the adult occurs 

 during the middle of August as usual. Whether they have any 

 spring molt I am unable to say positively. The plumage is but little 

 affected by abrasion, so that the unworn appearance of spring birds 

 is not necessarily an evidence of a recent molt. Very highly colored 

 individuals have a red patch on the center of the abdomen. 



Melanerpes carolinus (Linn.). Red-bellied Woodpecker. 



Without a satisfactory series I am unable to describe the molt of 

 this bird in detail, but it is apparently the same as in the preceding 

 species. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Colaptes auratus (Linn.). Flicker. 



Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



The molt from first plumage begins in July, a specimen taken 

 August 9, 1893, in Montgomery Co., Pa. shows it about half com- 

 pleted. The annual molt of the old birds occurs at the same time. 

 I can find no trace of spring molt and abrasion produces little effect 

 upon the plumage until after May. Mr. F. M. Chapman has 

 described in detail the variation in the upper tail coverts in this 

 genus. 17 



Unfortunately I have been unable to examine a sufficient series 

 of the Macrochirea to give a complete account of the molting of any 

 of the species, but have included such notes as I have. 



Family CAPRIMULGID JE. 



Antrostomus vociferus (Wils.). Whip-poor-will. 



As shown in Wilson's figure this bird has an early downy plumage 

 which almost immediately gives place to the usual "first" plumage, 

 a specimen taken at Haddonfield, N. J., July 2, 1893, (Coll. W. 

 Stone), shows the transition. As regards the number and time of 

 molts, a comparison of specimens would indicate that they are the 

 same as the following. 



Chordeiles virginianus (Gmel.). Night Hawk. 



Mr. Wm. Brewster has described transition specimens from the 

 early downy plumage to the first plumage and similar ones are in 

 the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 from Florida. A specimen taken Sept. 10, is in the first plumage, 

 with many new feathers appearing on the breast and elsewhere, but 

 no molt of the flight feathers ; how complete this molt is I cannot 

 not say. An adult specimen taken Sept. 1, shows much renewal 

 of the body plumage, but no trace of it in the wings or tail. It 

 would seem from this that the molt was quite late, and the loss of 

 the flight feathers relatively later than in most birds. I have seen 

 no trace of spring molt. 



Family MICROPODIDiE. 



Chaetura pelagica (Linn.). Chimney Swift. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



The annual molt in this species occurs from Aug. 1 to the first 

 week of September and there seems to be no spring molt. Abrasion 



" Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., Vol. Ill, p. 311. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



does not produce much effect upon the plumage but it loses the 

 bright metallic luster which characterizes the fresh winter dress. 

 I am inclined to think that the young do not renew the flight 

 feathers at their first molt. 



Family TEOCHILID^]. 



Trochilus colubris (Linn.). Ruby-throated Humming-bird. 



The only molting specimens of the Humming-bird that I have 

 seen are spring birds taken at Labna, Yucatan, March 15th, in 

 which the feathers on the throat are being renewed. Probably, the 

 young males acquire the ruby throat at this time. 



Family TYRANNTD.E3. 



The Tyrant Flycatchers show scarcely any seasonal variation, the 

 first plumage being nearly the same as the adult, while the feathers 

 are very little affected by abrasion. There are, therefore, as a rule 

 only three plumages ; first, winter and nuptial. 

 Tyrannus tyrannus (Linn.). Kingbird. 



Adult Kingbirds, taken August 21, show some molt on the 

 body but no trace of renewal of the flight feathers, which would 

 indicate that the annual molt is not completed until quite late. 

 Some spring specimens show a few new feathers appearing on the 

 breast and back, but whether there is a more extensive renewal of 

 the plumage before the birds start north from their winter quarters 

 I cannot say. Abrasion plays little or no part in changing the 

 plumage of this species. The first plumage gives way to that of the 

 adult late in August but no molt occurs in the wing and tail. 



Myiarchus crinitus (Linn.). Crested Flycatcher. 



The annual molt in this species begins early in August and is 

 indicated in the wings before any new feathers appear on the body, 

 differing in this respect from the last. There seems to be no spring 

 molt. The young birds of the first brood begin to renew their body 

 plumage early in August. All the plumages of this bird are very 

 similar. 



Sayornis phoebe (Lath.). Pewee. 



There is no spring molt in the Pewee but much abrasion takes 

 place during winter so that the sulphur tint of the under surface, 

 which is characteristic of fall specimens, is nearly lost by the breed- 

 ing season. The molt of first plumage in the young is restricted to 

 the body feathers. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Contopus virens (Linn.). Wood Pewee. 



I am unable to say, from an examination of spring specimens, how 

 much of a molt this species undergoes before its northward migra- 

 tion. Compared with specimens of the preceding they appear much 

 less abraded, which indicates that a partial spring molt occurs. 



Contopus borealis (Swains.). Olive-sided Flycatcher. 



The above remarks apply equally well to this species. 

 Empidonax. 



The species of this genus all resemble Contopus in the appearance 

 of their seasonal plumages. The freshness of the spring feathers 

 seems to indicate a partial spring molt at least, but without a satis- 

 factory series of winter specimens ; it is not possible to decide this 

 point. The renewal of the body plumage at the annual molt, as 

 in Tyrannus, begins before there is any molt of the flight feathers. 



Family ALAUDIDJE. 



Otocoris alpestris (Linn.). Horned Lark. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



There seems to be no spring molt in this species, but a great deal 

 of abrasion takes place during winter and spring, by which the light 

 edgings to the black crown and throat patch are lost and the other 

 colors brought into stronger contrast. The young birds molt the 

 flight feathers at the end of summer along with the rest of the first 

 plumage. 



Family CORVID.S3. 

 Cyanocitta cristata (Linn.). Blue Jay. 



Plumages, three; first, winter and nuptial, though, except for the 

 slight effects of abrasion, there is no difference between the last two. 



There is no spring molt and the young molt only the body plum- 

 age at the end of their first summer. 

 Perisoreus canadensis (Linn.). Canada Jaj . 



Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



1 have uot been able to examine a satisfactory series of this species 

 but feel pretty sure that its molt is the same as in the preceding. 

 Corvus oorax principalis Ridgw. Raven. 



I have been unable to prove the number of molts in the raven by 

 actual examination of molting specimens, but such material as I 

 have before me indicates a precisely similar molt to that of the crow. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



A molting specimen from Sitka, Alaska, June 15, 1895, shows that 

 the central tail feathers are the first to be renewed, and are well 

 grown before any of the others are dropped. 



Corvus ossifragus (Wils.). Fish Crow. 

 Corvus americanus (Aud.) . American Crow. 



Three plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



The Crow has no spring molt so far as I can ascertain ; the annual 

 molt is quite early, occurring in June or July, while the young birds 

 molt the first body plumage about the end of the latter month. As 

 in most black birds abrasion is but little marked. Many specimens, 

 however, are dingy and have the tips of the wings bleached to a 

 brown tint. The Fish Crow apparently molts exactly the same. 



Family ICTERID^J. 



The Icteridre may be arranged in three groups as regards their 

 molt. 



Dolichonyx has two complete molts each year standing alone 

 among our smaller land birds in this respect. The young probably 

 has no molt of flight feathers at the close of its first summer. The 

 two species of Icterus have a more or less complete spring molt of 

 the body feathers the first year at least, and the young do not molt 

 the flight feathers in August. The rest of our species have no 

 spring molt whatever, but the young have a complete molt at the 

 end of the first summer, including both wing and tail. This occurs 

 in only three other instances among our Passeres — i. e., in Cardi- 

 aalis, Tachyeineta and Otocoris. 



Dolichonyx oryzivorus (Linn.). Bobolink. 



Male. — Plumages, first, winter, early spring, nuptial. 



The molting of this species has been so carefully treated by Mr. 

 F. M. Chapman who was the first to describe the early spring plum- 

 age and the manner in which it is acquired, that it is hardly neces- 

 sary to go into details in this connection. When the young bird 

 has acquired the buff winter plumage it is practically undistinguish- 

 able from the winter adult. 



Early in spring (March 1st,) this plumage is entirely molted 

 even to the wings and tail and a new black plumage is assumed, 

 all the feathers of which are so broadly edged with brownish buff 

 that the general plumage appears to be of this shade. By the 

 breeding season the aspect of the plumage is again changed, this 

 time entirely by abrasion, and the bird appears in its black and 

 white dress. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The Bobolink furnishes the only instance known to me, among 

 the species here treated, of a molt of the remiges in the spring. The 

 molt of the Rose-hreasted Grosbeak, with this exception, is almost 

 parallel for the first season, though the buff edgings which are lost 

 by abrasion are not quite so much developed. Afterward, how- 

 ever, the Rose-breast has a winter plumage quite different from that 

 of the first year while the Bobolink, year after year, returns to the 

 buff " Reed-bird " garb. The old winter birds are perhaps of a little 

 different shade of buff and I think it is only the old birds that show 

 the occasional black feathers in fall. 



Mr. Chapman's specimen in the spring molt as well as specimens 

 in the annual molt have been examined. I have been unable, how- 

 ever, to ascertain whether the young bird molts the wing and tail 

 feathers with the rest of the first plumage or not. 



Female. — Plumage always similar to winter dress of male. I have 

 not been able to ascertain whether there is any spring molt or not, 

 the breeding plumage, however, is much lighter than the winter 

 dress owing to abrasion. A curious plumage is shown in a specimen 

 from Raleigh, N. C. May 2, 1893, No. 86, Coll. W. A. Shryock, in 

 which there are many black feathers on the breast, belly and head, 

 evidentlv an approach to the male pattern of coloration. 



Molothrus ater i Bodd.). Cowbird. 



Male. — Plumages; first, winter and nuptial; the last two, how- 

 ever, are scarcely distinguishable, owing to the very small effect pro- 

 duced by abrasion in this species. 



There seems to be no spring molt whatever, and almost the only 

 effect of the abrasion is to emphasize the line of demarcation 

 between the brown head and the black back. The young molt the 

 wing and tail at the end of summer with the rest of the plumage. 



Female.— Molts as in the male. The adult plumage is entirely 

 gray and the abrasion is very marked in spring, presenting a 

 "clipped" appearance exactly as in Ammodramus maritimu.-. 



There is no change in the coloration of either sex of the Cowbird 

 after the first winter dress has been assumed. 



Agelaius phoeniceus (Linn.). Red-winged Blackbird. 



Male. — Five fairly marked plumages may be distinguished : — 

 first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter and adult nuptial, the 

 last two, however, as in many other species, differ very slightly. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



At the end of the first summer the entire plumage of the young 

 bird is shed, including the wing and tail, and a black dress broadly 

 edged with brown is then assumed. 18 This becomes almost entirely 

 black by the breeding season through abrasion. Owing to the extent 

 of the abrasion, however, the plumage presents a somewhat worn 

 anpearance and there is always more or less trace of the brown edg- 

 ings present. The subsequent winter plumages show much less of 

 the brown borders and eventually this dress is nearly pure black ; 

 except, of course, the shoulders. This is well shown in a fall male 

 of A. phceniceus sonoriensis in the U. S. Nat. Mus. Coll. Whether the 

 brown edges are ever entirely lost at the second annual molt or whether 

 birds in such plumage are always several years of age I cannot say, but 

 incline to latter view. The less brown margins to the winter plum- 

 age, the less abrasion takes place and the nuptial plumage appears 

 relatively smoother. The depth of color of the red shoulder patch 

 is not necessarily an index of the age, as some birds in the first year 

 have deep red shoulders. 



Mr. Brewster describes (7. c.) an occasional, though not unique 

 plumage, which has a " crescentic patch of pale yellow tinged with 

 rose-color upon the breast," which he regards as an " exceedingly 

 high phase of ornamentation." 



Females. — Vary considerably in the tints on the throat ; thebuff- 

 est ones I take to be birds in their first year and those with the 

 pinkest throats are probably the oldest. The red on the shoulder 

 of the females increases in proportion to that on the throat. The 

 molts are exactly the same as in the male, and the abrasion in 

 spring always well marked. 



Sturnella magna (Linn.). Meadow Lark. 



Male. — Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



The Meadow Lark, as in the preceding species, molts both wing 

 and tail at the end of the first summer. There is no spring molt, 

 the change to the breeding dress being produced entirely by abrasion. 

 All the under surface is veiled in winter with long brownish or buff 

 tips. The bright yellow and black tips are only brought out when 

 these are lost. On the upper surface the abrasion affects the light 

 margins to the body feathers and the light bands and indentations 

 on the tertials, which become worn in a most remarkable manner 

 (see Plate IV, figs. 8 and 9). There is some variation in the extent 



18 First described by Mr. Wm. Brewster, Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1878, p. 175. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



of the brown margins of the winter plumage, birds showing the least 

 being probably the oldest. 



Female. — Like the male in molts and plumages. 



Icterus galbula (Linn.). Baltimore Oriole. 



The males of this species assume four distinct plumages. The 

 first plumage is ashy on the back passing into dull orange on head 

 and rump and whitish below, wings suffused with yellow-brown 

 bordered with white and tail dull orange. The body feathers of 

 this dress are soon shed and the plumage of the first winter assumed, 

 generally by the middle of August. In this the back is dull orange, 

 brightest on the head and rump and mottled with dark-brown on 

 the interscapulum ; below nearly uniform bright orange-yellow. 

 These two plumages are remarkably similar, the latter being uni- 

 formly brighter and richer and easily distinguished by the different 

 structure of the feathers. 



In early spring there is a molt which as usual varies exceedingly 

 in its extent in different individuals. Usually the entire black body 

 plumage of the adult is assumed covering the back, entire head and 

 throat, also the reddish-orange on the breast, sides of the abdomen 

 and a certain amount on the rump. The middle of the abdomen 

 and the greater part of the rump, however, retain the old yellowish 

 winter plumage. There is great irregularity in the molt of the tail 

 as well as the tertials and greater wing coverts. All but one of the 

 specimens examined show some molt in these feathers, but in none 

 is it complete. 



One has renewed all the tail but the four outer feathers of the left 

 side, another has renewed only the middle pair and one other; and 

 still another retains three old feathers on the right side. The spec- 

 imen which shows the least molt in the first spring (No.25,734, Coll. 

 A. N. S. .May 24, 1864, Republican Kiv., Ivas.\ has only acquired 

 part of the black head, the old yellow plumage remaining in a large 

 nuchal patch, while below the reddish-orange feathers have appeared 

 only on the breast. There has been no molt, whatever, in the wing 

 or tail. 



The black interscapulary plumage, which is assumed by the 

 Baltimore Oriole at the first spring molt, shows the same variation 

 as exhibited in the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, i. e., in some individuals 

 the feathers are uniform black while in others they are bordered 

 with orange. At the annual molt in July the entire plumage is 

 renewed and the perfect plumage is acquired. This is like the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



previous dress, but the whole abdomen and rump and lesser wing 

 coverts are bright reddish-orange, while the black is more intense. 

 All the other wing feathers are jet black bordered with white; the 

 two middle rectrices are black, the next pair largely black, the others 

 orange with more or less black on the base. The interscapulary 

 feathers are generally slightly tipped with orange. 



In the second spring there is no molt, unless there may be a renewal 

 of some of the scattered feathers but the light tips of the interscapular 

 feathers are entirely lost from abrasion and the white on the wings 

 is greatly reduced and on the tertials entirely lost from the same 

 cause. 



Icterus spurius (Linn.). Orchard Oriole. 



Notwithstanding the large amount of material that I have exam- 

 ined, I have been unable to procure specimens which show conclu- 

 sively the history of the molts of this bird. The large series, aggre- 

 gating several hundred skins, contained in the collections of the Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, National Museum, American 

 Museum of Natural History and the private collection of Mr. Wil- 

 liam Brewster, contains all together only four specimens in the molt, 

 of which but two bear the date of capture. In view of this scarcity 

 of molting birds, we are compelled to judge of the molts mainly from 

 comparing specimens taken before and after the plumage has been 

 renewed. 



Male. — The young birds change the first plumage for that of the 

 first winter in July or August. This dress is as a rule scarcely differ- 

 ent from the first plumage. Some few individuals, however, show a 

 few black feathers on the throat. In February or March there is a 

 molt of the feathers of the head and throat, and all the males that reach 

 us from the south in the spring have a black throat, the extent and 

 purity of the black varying in different individuals. I have 

 no green males in the annual molt nor after the molt is completed. 

 One specimen (No. 91,034, U. S.Nat. Mus. Coll.), taken in Nicaragua, 

 Feb. 23, 1883, shows the throat and head to be molting. That this 

 bird is not in its first spring molt is shown by the fact that some old 

 throat feathers which have not yet been shed are black. The plum- 

 age of the second spring is similar to that of the first, but the black 

 throat is more complete and there are traces of chestnut on the breast. 

 The tail is also clouded with black, but as the specimen just referred 

 to is not molting the tail, I think that this change is effected at the 

 preceding annual molt. It is probably at the next annual molt that 

 10 




138 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



the chestnut and black plumage is acquired. It is impossible to tell 

 from an examination of spring males in the green plumage, how 

 many years they remain in this dress, as the individual variation in 

 the amount of change effected at a given molt is so great, that there 

 is a complete series of intergrades from one extreme to the other. 

 Between the most advanced specimen and the adult chestnut plum- 

 age, however, there is quite a gap, and I have never seen any spec- 

 imens like those figured by Wilson and Audubon. 



The variation in the marking of spring birds is shown by the 

 following table : 



The spring molt is generally confined to the head and throat but 

 in some second year birds it is more extensive and in one, (122,073, 

 U. S. Nat. Mus. Washington, D. C, May 2, 1887), the body molt 

 must have been nearly complete, while the tertials and indeed the 

 wing feathers show scarcely a trace of abrasion. Old chestnut 

 colored birds have the plumage, especially above, edged with buff, 

 which is lost by abrasion before the breeding season. 



Female. — Remains as the male in first winter. Spring specimens 

 differ in showing much abrasion but there is little if any spring 

 molt. 

 Scolecophagus carolinus (Miill.). Rusty Blackbird. 



Male. — Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



Onlv one molt a year, the change from winter to nuptial dress is 

 effected entirely through abrasion. 



Female. — Molts as in the male. Adult plumage always gray 

 instead of black. I have seen no molting birds of either sex, but Dr. 

 J. A. Allen writes me that the young renew the flight feathers at 

 their first molt, as in the allied genera. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



Quiscalus quiscula (Linn.). Purple Grackle. 



Male. — Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



The young birds molt the wing and tail along with the first body 

 plumage and assume the adult plumage in its entirety the first 

 winter. There is no spring molt and very little effect is produced 

 by abrasion, owing to the uniform color of the plumage, so that 

 the nuptial plumage is scarcely distinguishable from that of winter. 



Female. — Molts as the male. Plumage always duller. 



Family PRINGILLID^J. 



A summary of the molting of the species of finches described 

 below shows that thirteen species have no spring molt, while six 

 species have a spring molt of the body feathers. In Spinus tristis, 

 Passerina cyanea, Ammod ramus sandwichensis savanna, A. princeps 

 and A. caudacutus, this seems to occur regularly every year. In 

 the first two a radical change of color is effected, in the last three the 

 new plumage is the same as the old. 



In Habia ludovidana the extent of the molt varies, probably 

 decreasing in succeeding years. 



In four other species, Zonotriekia leucophrys, Z. albicollis, Spizella 

 socialis and Melospiza georgiana, a partial spring molt occurs, less 

 marked after the first year. 



Habia ludovidana molts the tail the first spring, Ammodramus 

 caudacutus molts it in many cases though probably not regularly. 



Cardinalis eardinalis molts both wing and tail with the first plum- 

 age at the end of summer and Passerina cyanea and Ammodramus 

 caudacutus molt the tail at this time. 



Carpodacus purpureas (Gmel.). Purple Finch. 



Male. — Plumages, first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter, 

 adult nuptial. 



I have not been able to examine any molting specimens of Car- 

 podacus, but a large series of winter and spring specimens shows 

 that no spring molt occurs. The change to the pink plumage is 

 evidently effected at an annual molt either the second year or still 

 later. The birds retain the brown dress during the first breeding 

 season at least. Fall specimens in brown plumage differ from spring 

 examples in the loss of buff tints through abrasion, while pink birds 

 lose the gray or brown edgings of winter in the same way. The 

 great predominence of brown birds makes it seem at least possible 

 that some never acquire the pink plumage. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Female. — Retains the brown plumage permanently ; there is no 

 spring molt. 

 Pinicola enucleator (Linn.). Pine Grosbeak. 



So far as I can judge from winter specimens the account of the 

 Purple Finch applies equally well to this. 



Loxia curvirostra minor (Brehin). American Crossbill. 

 Loxia leucoptera Ginel. White-winged Crossbill. 



The molting of the Crossbills is more complicated than would appear 

 at first sight and there is probably great individual variation as 

 to the time and extent of the chauge in coloration of the plum- 

 age. Mr. W. E. D. Scott has shown that some males assume the 

 red dress immediately upon losing the first plumage, while others are 

 known to breed in the yellow or green dress. The tints are subject 

 to great individual variation, as also the purity of the red plum- 

 age, many specimens showing a greater or less mixture of green. 

 Furthermore, the red plumage may be partly replaced by green at 

 a subsequent molt, as one molting specimen has the throat quite red 

 while a majority of the new throat feathers, just coming in are 

 green. The annual molt of the Crossbill begins about August 1, 

 (Somerset Co., Maine). There seems to be a slight spring molt, 

 most pronounced on the throat and breast. 



Female. — Retains the green plumage at all seasons. 

 Acanthis linaria (Linn.). Redpoll. 



While I have no molting specimens of the Redpoll for examina- 

 tion, I think from a comparison of a large winter series, that the 

 change of plumage is effected in the same way as in Carpodacm. 

 The variation in the extent of the pink color on the breast of males 

 is probably largely individual. 



It is generally stated that the crimson patch on the head is inten- 

 sified by a "scaling off" of the surface of the feathers but I cannot 

 furnish any evidence upon this point. 



Spinus tristis (Linn.). American Goldfinch. 



Male. — Three plumages are recognizable, first, winter and nup- 

 tial. The birds of the year seem to have more brown on the edges 

 of the wing feathers which in the older birds are nearly pure white, 

 but I am not sure that this is constant. Annual molt occurs between 

 the middle of September and the middle of October, and at about 

 the same time the young bird renews its body feathers. There is a 

 complete molt of the body feathers in spring from about the middle 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



of April to the middle of May, but none of the wing feathers, not 

 even the tertials, are renewed at this time. Throughout the winter 

 and spring the white edgings to the tail and wing feathers are being 

 lost by abrasion, so that in the summer breeding dress the wings are 

 almost entirely black. The Goldfinch continues to have these two 

 molts every year throughout its life, and the molting specimens pre- 

 sent a very peculiar appearance in their mottled dress of brown and 

 yellow. 



Female. — The female has exactly the same number of molts and 

 plumages as the male. 

 Spinus pinus (Wils.). Pine Siskin. 



Plumages, first, winter and breeding. 



So far as my material goes, there is indication of but one molt a 

 year in this species, i. <?., the annual molt at the end of summer. 

 Some abrasion takes place during the winter and spring, by 

 which the buff edgings to the feathers are lost and the mark- 

 ings are thus intensified in the breeding plumage and more 

 strongly constrasted with the white of breast. The white edgings to 

 the wings are also lost by abrasion. A male taken Jan. 28th, 

 (Cape May, N. J.), has the feathers of the throat and breast very 

 much suffused with brown, so that the dark stripes are almost 

 obliterated. Whether this is a peculiarity due to age or purely 

 individual I am unable to say. 



Plectrophenax nivalis (Linn.). Snow Bunting. 



Male. — Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



In the series which I have examined I have not detected any con- 

 stant differences between the young of the year, and the adults. There 

 seems to be no spring molt in the Snow Bunting, but the remarkable 

 change from the winter to the nuptial dress is effected entirely by 

 abrasion, which probably is more marked in this species than in any 

 other. Furthermore, the abrasion is scarcely apparent until after 

 the middle of February. 19 



Female. — Molts as in the male. 



Poocaetes gramineus (Gmel.). Vesper Sparrow. 



Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



Molting exactly as in Melospiza fasciata which it so closely resem- 

 bles in plumage. Young of the year seem rather buffer than old 

 birds. 



19 See Stone, Science, 1893, p. 52 ; Chapman, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., 

 1896, p. 9. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Ammodramus princeps (Mayn.). Ipswich Sparrow. 

 Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



Molting exactly as in A. sandivichensis savanna. Specimens taken 

 March 15th, Atlantic City, N. J. and March 29th, Cape Charles, 

 Va., show the spring molt in progress. 

 Ammodramus sandwichensis savanna (Wils.). Savanna Sparrow. 

 Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



Another winter plumage occurs much browner than the usual one 

 which may be characteristic of the birds of the year. A complete 

 annual molt occurs at the end of the breeding season, and a more 

 or less complete molt of the body feathers takes place in spring. 

 Birds taken just before the spring molt show effects of abrasion, 

 especially on the tertials and resemble July birds. After the 

 molt new tertials have been acquired and a general renewal of 

 the feathers of the breast, head and rump has taken place, so that 

 the birds are in most respects indistinguishable from September 

 specimens ; the yellow stripe over the eye is also acquired at this 

 molt. Whether this spring molt is universal with all the individuals 

 or occurs every year, I cannot say with certainty. A series of speci- 

 mens taken January 25-26 (Cape May, N. J)., shows a good deal 

 of variation in the amount of abrasion. 



Ammodramus savannarum passerinus (Wils.). Grasshopper Sparrow. 

 Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



After the annual molt the plumage of this species is subject to 

 continued abrasion which materially alters the depth of colors by 

 the following breeding season, the under surface becoming much 

 lighter and losing much of the brown cast while the colors elsewhere 

 are in sharper contrast. In such material as I have examined I can 

 find no trace of a spring molt. The spotted first plumage is retained 

 until about the middle of August. A specimen taken Aug. 10, in 

 Chester Co., Pa., shows the beginning of the molt of the body feath- 

 ers while another Aug. 26, from the same locality, shows no sign 

 of molt, this, perhaps, belonging to a later brood. 

 Ammodramus henslowii (Aud.). Henslow's Sparrow. 



Such specimens of this species as I have been able to examine 

 indicate molts and plumages exactly parallel with the last. 

 Ammodramus caudacutus (Ghmel.). Sharp-tailed Finch. 

 Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



After the annual molt the Sharp-tailed Finch is subject to great 

 abrasion of plumage, which by March presents almost as worn an 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



appearance as characterizes most birds in July or August. In 

 April occurs a complete molt of the body plumage, together with 

 the tertials and sometimes the rectrices ; a specimen taken April 16 at 

 Atlantic City, N. J., shows the new tail about half grown. After the 

 completion of this spring molt the birds are indistinguishable, except 

 upon close examination of the wing feathers, from October spec- 

 imens. The feathers soon begiu to show the effects of abrasion again 

 and by August, just previous to the annual molt, the birds present 

 about as dilapidated an appearance as can be found among any of 

 our species. The wear and tear upon the plumage of this species is 

 doubtless due to its habit of living entirely among the coarse grass 

 and sedges of the salt marshes, which may also have something to do 

 with the unusual extent of the spring molt. The young birds gen- 

 erally, but, perhaps not always, renew the tail when the first body 

 plumage is molted at the end of summer. The remiges are not 

 renewed at this time. The series of specimens, upon which the study 

 of this species was based, consisted of upward of one hundred skins, 

 taken at Atlantic City, N. J., during every month of the year by 

 Mr. I. Norris De Haven and myself. 

 Ammodramus maritimus (Wils.). Seaside Finch. 



Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



In this species the spring plumage differs from the winter plum- 

 age only by abrasion, there being but one molt a year. Not only 

 are the blending olive and brown tints of the fresh fall dress quite 

 worn away, but the whole plumage presents the appearance of hav- 

 ing been trimmed with a pair of scissors. It seems strange that in 

 this species there should be no spring molt whatever, while in its 

 nearest relative, the Sharp-tailed Finch, it should be so extensive. 



Zonotrichia albicollis (Gmel.). White-throated Sparrow. 



Male. — Five plumages may be distinguished, i. e., first, first winter, 

 first nuptial, adult winter, adult nuptial. The difference between 

 second and third, and fourth and fifth is often very slight, espe- 

 cially in the case of the latter two. After the change to the first 

 winter plumage the bird has a fairly well marked white throat, 

 but the black crown stripes are much mixed with brown and the 

 central stripe is quite dull. In spring a partial molt occurs, prac- 

 tically confined to the throat and head. At this time many black 

 and pure white feathers appear in the crown, the yellow supercili- 

 aries receive bright fresh feathers and more pure white feathers are 

 acquired on the throat. The black stripes of the crown are, how- 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ever, still mixed with brown posteriorly, for the first season at least. 

 Subsequently, whether at the following annual molt or later I cannot 

 say, the plumage of the head becomes still brighter, with the crown 

 stripes jet black reaching back on the neck while the white throat 

 is sharply defined against dark gray cheeks and breast, I do not 

 think there is any spring molt after the first year, but subse- 

 quent increase in the brightness of the markings takes place at the 

 annual molt. The bright markings when once attained are not lost 

 again, as some of the handsomest specimens examined are fall birds, 

 although it is possible that some birds never acquire the brightest 

 markings to which I have referred. Mr. W. E. D. Scott states that 

 some birds acquire the highly colored feathers immediately after 

 shedding the first plumage, judging the age of fall birds by osteologi- 

 cal characters. 



Female. — Apparently has no molt in spring, and though it attains 

 the yellow eye-brow and partly black crown stripes, it does not 

 approach the brilliancy of the old male. 



Zonotrichia leucophrys (Forst.). White-crowned Sparrow. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



Besides the annual molt, a molt of the crown, tertials and many 

 of the breast and intescapular feathers occurs in spring. This is 

 very marked in the first spring when the brown and buff crown is 

 replaced by black and white. Whether it continues to the same 

 extent in subsequent seasons I cannot say positively, though the 

 appearance of spring specimens would indicate that some molt 

 always occurred at this season. The full plumage once attained is 

 not lost again, and spring and fall adults are hardly distinguish- 

 able. 



Spizella mouticola (Gmel.). Tree Sparrow. 



Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



There is only one molt a year, though a few odd feathers are often 

 replaced during spring, probably when lost or damaged. Breeding 

 specimens show great abrasion, which brings the colors into much 

 stronger contrast, but this is not apparent until after April 1st. 

 so that there is scarcely any variation in specimens taken within the 

 winter habitat. 

 Spizella socialis (Wils.). Chipping Sparrow. 



Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



When the young bird loses the spotted first plumage, at the end 

 of summer, it acquires a winter plumage practically identical with 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 14-3 



that of the old birds except in the purity and extent of the chestnut 

 crown. In spring the dusky feathers of the throat are replaced by 

 pure white ones and those of the crown by new ones, which are 

 richly colored and have no dark spots. Apparently the older birds 

 do not molt at all in spring, the pure chestnut crown being gained 

 entirely by abrasion of the dusky tips of the feathers. Adults vary, 

 however, in the purity of the chestnut crown acquired at the aunual 

 molt, some of them showing much mottling of brown. In con- 

 sequence of this a partial spring molt may be necessary in some 

 individuals after the first seasou. Some change is effected in the 

 other plumage during spring and winter by abrasion. 



Spizella pusilla (Wils.). Field Sparrow. 



Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



After the annual molt the winter plumage changes gradually by 

 abrasion, and there is no spring molt except the occasional renewal 

 of odd feathers. The contrast between October and August spec- 

 imens is striking. The former have the back buff with reddish- 

 brown centers and black shaft streaks, while the latter have reddish- 

 brown backs with distinct black streaks. 



Junco hyemalis (Linn.). Snow Bird. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



No spring molt is apparent in the Snow Bird. The brown tints 

 of autumn disappear entirely through abrasion, but this is not 

 marked until after May 1st. Birds of the year are probably always 

 browner than old birds. 

 Melospiza fasciata (Gmel.). Song Sparrow. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



No spring molt occurs but abrasion is very marked, all the buff 

 tints being lost in the spring bird, while the black streaks on the 

 breast appear as if their ends had been cut off with a pair of scissors. 

 Melospiza georgiana (Lath.). Swamp Sparrow. 



Male. — Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



The molt of this species appears to be precisely like that of Spizella 

 socialis, which it so closely resembles in the pattern of its plumage. 

 The chestnut crown is acquired in spring as well as a certain pro- 

 portion of white throat feathers. The chestnut crown once acquired 

 is not lost at the annual molt but some individuals do not seem to 

 acquire it in its entirety, at least until the second year. No spring 

 molt seems to occur after the full chestnut crown is attained. As 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



in most Fringillidse, abrasion causes marked change in the general 

 plumage during winter and spring. 



Female. — Apparently like the male, though generally with the 

 crown patch less pure. 



Passerella iliaca (Merr.). Fox Sparrow. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



Apparently no spring molt occurs in this species apart from a 

 slight renewal of the throat feathers in some examples. The rusty 

 red tints are to a great extent lost, especially on the head and neck, 

 by the breeding season, but the abrasion is scarcely noticeable up to 

 the time the bird leaves its winter habitat, so that specimens taken 

 there, from November to March, are hardly distinguishable. 



Pipilo erythrophthalmus (Linn.). Towhee. 



Male. — Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



There is apparently only one molt a year in the Towhee and, 

 although the feathers are subject to abrasion during the winter 

 and spring, scarcely any change is effected in the coloration owing 

 to the fact that they are not parti-colored. The young birds 

 assume the adult winter plumage about the end of August, when 

 they present a very peculiar mottled appearance. The wing and 

 tail as usual are not renewed at this time. 



Female. — Molts as in the male, the only difference in plumage 

 being the substitution of brown for black in the adult. 

 Cardinalis cardinalis (Linn.). Cardinal. 



Male. — Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



There is no spring molt ; the winter plumage shows extensive 

 gray margins to the feathers of the back which are lost by the nest- 

 ing season through abrasion. In some specimens, evidently younger 

 birds, these edgings are brownish rather than gray. Contrary to the 

 rule which governs others of our Fringillida?, the young Cardinal 

 renews the rectrices and remiges at the end of the breeding season. A 

 specimen obtained Sept. 18, 1881, at Haddonfield, N. J. shows the 

 first plumage nearly lost. The primaries have all been renewed as 

 far as the third, while the new tail, still showing the sheaths at base, 

 is nearly full grown, except the middle pair of feathers, which are 

 not quite two inches in length. The renewal of the flight feathers in 

 the first autumn in this species is a matter of great interest (see p. 

 117). 



Female. — Molts as in. the male, a young female changing from 

 the first to winter plumage (Tarpon Springs, Fla., Aug. 11, 1891), 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



shows the wings beginning to molt as described above in the case of 

 the male. The adult plumages differ from those of the male in 

 intensity of coloration, being generally gray and brown, though some 

 Florida specimens are quite red. Much of the brown tint of the 

 lower surface in winter is lost by abrasion. 



Habia ludoviciana (Linn.). Rose-breasted Grosbeak. 



The Rose-breasted Grosbeak exhibits probably the most compli- 

 cated series of plumages of any of our smaller North American 

 birds. Five regular plumages of the male and three of the female 

 are recognizable, while the great range of individual peculiarity in 

 the amount of change effected at a given molt produces many other 

 variations. 



I have treated the plumages and molts of this species at much 

 length and have referred to them in other parts of this paper. 

 As some of my deductions may not meet with universal endorse- 

 ment, it seems proper to state at the outset the nature of the material 

 at my disposal wdiile Avriting the paper. This is as follows : First 

 plumage, 1 ; first plumage, molting, 2. Males in first winter, 12 ; 

 in first spring, 10 ; in first annual molt, 2 ; in second winter, 5 ; in 

 second spring molt, 2 ; in second spring, 12. Females in spring, 

 8 ; annual molt, 1 ; winter, 2. Besides this, I have examined the 

 entire series in the U. S. National Museum, the numbers of which I 

 have not recorded. 



Male. — There is in this species a complete annual molt and a 

 more or less complete molt of the body feathers in early spring, 

 generally including a molt of the tail in the first season. Much 

 abrasion occurs between these two molts and in feathers not molted 

 in the spring it continues until the next annual molt. The 

 recognizable plumages are as follows : 



First Plumage [30,236, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. July 1, 1892. 

 Beaverkill, N. Y.]. 



Beneath white. Above, head dull black, with buffy superciliary 

 and median stripes, all meeting on the hind neck. Rest of upper 

 surface olive-brown, mottled with blackish-brown. Wing and tail 

 (about half grown) olive-brown with spots and bands buffy-white. 



First Plumage Molting [31,924, A. N. S. Phila. July 6, 1891. 

 E. Hartford, Conn.]. 



Similar to the above, but with wings and tail of full dimensions, 

 while the breast and abdominal tracts are newly molted buff feathers 

 with dark centers. The head and throat are also beginning to 

 change to the following plumage. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Plumage of First Winter [28,502, A. K S. Phila. Aug. 10, 

 1879. Winnebago Co., Iowa]. 



Beneath buff, throat somewhat suffused with pink, and belly 

 white, many of the feathers with a central dash of blackish-brown. 

 Above much as in first plumage, but feathers of back and head 

 more strongly edged with buffy-brown. 



No specimens showing the molt from this plumage to that of the 

 following spring have come under my observation ; birds in the lat- 

 ter plumage are as follows. 



Plumage of First Breeding Season [1,029 Coll. W. Stone]. 



Below, abdomen white, breast pink, throat black, mottled with 

 pink and white. Above black, with more or less traces of buff edg- 

 ings, rump white somewhat mottled with black, flight feathers gen- 

 erally as in first plumage, greater coverts and generally the tertials 

 black, tail partly black. 



Annual Molt [1,028, Coll. Wm. Brewster. Aug. 20, 1874. Up- 

 ton, Oxford Co., Maine]. 



Below, as in the following specimen, but with many black 

 feathers remaining on the throat, above as in first breeding plumage, 

 except the back which has molted into fall plumage. AVings entirely 

 molted except secondaries and outermost primaries. The old 

 wing feathers are olive-brown, the new jet black. 



Winter Plumage of Second Year [1,027, Coll. Wm. Brewster. 

 Sept. 1871. Mt.Carmel, 111.]. 



Differs from first fall plumage as follows : Belly whiter and 

 throat and breast much more pink, feathers on back black, with 

 comparatively narrow buff edgings. Wing and tail jet black, with 

 pure white spots. 



Breeding Plumage of Second Year [34, 22"), A. N. S. Phila. 

 Haddonfie'ld, N. J. May 16, 1882]. 



Differs from first year as follows : Throat uniform, black down to 

 the breast, which is brilliant piuk. AVings and tail jet black, with 

 spots pure white, head and back solid black, rump pure white. 



AVhile the above descriptions give a pretty accurate idea of the 

 seasonal variations of plumage in the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, they 

 by no means cover all the peculiarities of plumage found in this 

 variable species. It seems quite possible that the male requires 

 three years to gain the perfect plumage described above as the 

 " breeding plumage of the second year " ; but different individuals 

 differ so much in the amount of change that thev undergo at the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



spring molt, that they present an almost unbroken series from one 

 extreme type of spring plumage to the other. It is, therefore, quite 

 impossible to do more than separate them into two groups, with 

 brown and black remiges respectively, the former representing one 

 year old birds, the latter those of more than one year. 20 



The remiges, I think, are only shed at the annual molt, as is the 

 rule in nearly all passerine birds. The brown wing feathers of the 

 fledgling are, therefore, retained until August of the next year. 

 I think they are all replaced by jet black feathers at this annual 

 molt. One spring specimen (1,029 Coll. W. Stone), it is true, 

 has one black feather in an otherwise brown wing, but this is 

 evidently an exception, and the black feather may have been as- 

 sumed in spring ; in any case, it can hardly be considered as evi- 

 dence that the brown wings are retained for more than one year. 

 Furthermore, all the brown-winged birds I have examined which 

 show the annual molt in progress, have new black feathers coming 

 in. 



The tertials, as usual, do not accord with the primaries and sec- 

 ondaries in the time of their molt. Birds in the first winter plum- 

 age (?'. e., with brown wings) almost always molt the tertials with 

 the body feathers in spring, the new ones being jet black with white 

 spots. Two specimens before me, however, retained the old brown 

 tertials throughout the breeding season. An example of the other 

 extreme is a specimen (So. 501 Coll. \V. Stone), a bird of the year, 

 shot in September, which has just completed the molt from the first 

 plumage to that of the first winter, has lost the brown tertials and 

 greater wing coverts and has a new set of black ones which still 

 have the embryonic sheaths adhering to the base of the quills. 



Old birds, as a rule, do not renew the tertials in spring, though 

 some of the most highly plumaged examples seem to have done so 

 In judging of the renewal of these tertials, I have based my opinion 

 on the condition of these feathers in spring specimens. In some 

 birds they are very much abraded so that the white spots appear to 

 have been cut away, while in others they are fresh and show no 

 abrasion at all (PI. V, figs. 7 and 8). The former I regard as 

 acquired at the previous annual molt and latter at the spring molt. 



20 As already stated, the most perfect plumage may not necessarily denote 

 an old bird, but perhaps one of exceptional vitality. Though it is undoubt- 

 edly the fact that the successive plumages of an individual become more per- 

 fect, up to a certain point, at least, it is also quite likely that some individ- 

 uals never reach the so-called perfect plumage. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The tail is generally shed at the first spring molt and a new black 

 one assumed, 21 though sometimes only a few of the feathers are 

 changed, frequently only the middle pair. In these latter cases 

 the complete black tail is assumed at the next annual molt. 



As regards the spring molt of the body plumage there is a great 

 deal of individual variation. In some specimens, especially in birds 

 in their first spring plumage, this molt is practically complete, as 

 far as the body feathers are concerned, while in others, a good 

 many of the old feathers, showing much abrasion, are retained. 

 This often gives a mottled appearance to the interscapular region, 

 while in the pink breast patch the old feathers may be recognized 

 by their worn whitish tips. One curious specimen (No. 31,922, A. 

 N.S. Coll., E. Hartford, Conn., May 11, 1891), has the pink of 

 the breast thickly spotted with black. Careful examination shows 

 that but little molt has taken place on the breast ; the buff margins, 

 however, which bordered the feathers in the winter plumage, have 

 been completely worn away, while the black portions being appar- 

 ently less brittle have withstood the abrasion and remain as promi- 

 nent as in the winter bird (see PI. V, fig. 6). Furthermore, the 

 feathers of the interscapular region, which are acquired at the spring 

 molt, seem to vary in character, some are jet black throughout, 

 while others are bordered with very light buff on the sides. These 

 might be considered to be remnants of the winter plumage, but in 

 many spring specimens (notably in 1,029, Coll. W. Stone, May 8, 

 1892) the feathers are fresh and perfect while if they had been 

 acquired at the previous annual molt they would certainly have 

 shown more or less abrasion. These burF-edged feathers in spring 

 birds do not necessarily denote younger birds than those having the 

 the pure black feathers, since in the specimen (28,499, Coll. A. N. S., 

 June, 1881) which shows the least amount of spring molt of any 

 in the series, such new feathers as have been acquired on the back 

 are entirely black. 



Female. — Molts and plumages quite different from male. So far 

 as my material goes, there seems to be a partial molt in spring in 

 addition to the annual molt at the end of the breeding season, but 

 in many individuals the nuptial plumage is much abraded and 

 shows but little renewal of the feathers. There is a curious plum- 



21 1 have not seen any specimen which shows this molt of the tail in progre>.-. 

 but I have seen such a specimen illustrating an exactly similar molt in Ptr- 

 anga erythromelas. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



age of the female which I do not regard as belonging to the regular 

 cycle of changes, but rather an abnormal tendency toward the 

 color pattern of the male. This differs from the normal female 

 plumage in having the head and forepart of the back, sides of neck, 

 and chin black, slightly edged with gray, the median crown stripe 

 being obsolete. Below white slightly tinged with yellow on the breast, 

 where are also a few narrow shaft streaks. The specimen described 

 was taken in Chester Co., Pa., May 5, 1888 (No. 1,957, Coll. W. 

 Stone). A similar one is in the U. S. Nat. Museum Collection. 



Passerina cyanea (Linn.). Indigo Bird. 



Male. — Four distinct plumages are recognizable in this species. 



First Plumage. 



Much like the following but distinguished by the different struct- 

 ure of the feathers. 



Plumage of First Winter. [No. 841, Coll. W. Stone. Sept. 30, 

 1891. Chester Co., Pa.]. 



Reddish-brown above, with darker shaft lines on back, below 

 quite buff, brownish on breast, with distinct dark shaft lines. 



Breeding Plumage. 



Brilliant blue above and below, varying as described below. 



Winter Plumage of Adult. 



Reddish-brown above, shaft stripes obscure, rump feathers more 

 or less blue with brown tips below, tinged with brown, many feath- 

 ers with bluish bases, which give it a mottled appearance. Some 

 specimens have much blue on the bases of all the feathers above. 



The breeding plumage exhibits a great range of variation and 

 the most brilliant and perfect dress is certainly not acquired before 

 the second or third year. The primaries and secondaries are only 

 renewed at the annual molt, but the tertials and some of the rec- 

 trices are often molted in spring, when the brown body feathers are 

 lost and the blue plumage acquired. It is the irregularity in the 

 extent of this molt that causes the variety in the breeding plumage 

 of different individuals. Old brown tertials of the winter plumage 

 are frequently retained through the breeding season and also many 

 of the old coverts as well as brown patches or single feathers on 

 various parts of the body. The white belly of the winter plumage 

 also frequently escapes molt in the spring. Individual variation 

 in the extent of the molt is so great that the specimens cannot be 

 separated in definite groups. Fourteen spring and summer males 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



show only six in which the molt of body feathers has been com- 

 plete and no trace of brown feathers remain, but even some of these 

 have one or two brown wing-coverts. Eight of the fourteen have 

 renewed the tertials in the spring molt while three have partially 

 renewed them and three retain the old feathers. Winter specimens 

 of more than one year also show a good deal of variation in the 

 amount of blue on the feathers. Some which appear brown super- 

 ficially, have the bases of the feathers quite blue ; while others have 

 broader brown margins and but little blue. Much abrasion 

 takes place between the annual and spring molt but a scarcity of 

 winter specimens and general lack of dates on such as I have, pre- 

 vents a careful study of this matter. The young birds of this spe- 

 cies molt the tail at the close of the summer when they renew their 

 body plumage but do not molt the wing feathers. 



Females. — Have but one molt a year, and the change in the nup- 

 tial plumage is due entirely to abrasion. "Whether the young renew 

 the tail at the end of the summer, as in the male, I am uncertain. 

 Spiza americana (Ginel.). Dickeissel. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



No spring molt occurs in this species, unless in the first season. 



Family TANAGRID^ffi. 



Piranga erythromelas Vieill. Scarlet Tanager. 



The seasonal changes of this species are analogous to those of the 

 Rose-breasted Grosbeak, though the individual variations do not 

 seem to be so great. Five regular plumages of the male are recog- 

 nizable, as follows : 



1. First Plumage [No. 1,906, Coll. W. Stone. Aug. 17, 

 Chester Co., Pa.]. 



Above olive, below yellowish-white, yellow on middle of the ab- 

 domen and crissum, breast and sides of abdomen coarsely spotted 

 and streaked with olive. Wings half grown, tail one-quarter 

 grown. 



2. Plumage of First Winter [No. 830, Coll. AV. Stone. Sept. 18, 

 1891. Haddonfield, N. J.]. 



Above olive, below olive-yellow, wing and tail brown, edged with 

 olive, except the greater median and lesser wing-coverts, which are 

 jet black. 



3. Flrd Breeding Plumage [No. 34,001, Coll. A. N. S. Cheater 

 Co., Pa. May 18, 1881]. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Above and below scarlet, tail jet black, wings brown, edged with 

 olive, except greater median and lesser coverts and tertials which 

 are jet black. 



4. Plumage of Second Winter [Xo. 19,688, Coll. Win. Brewster. 

 Buncombe Co., X. C. Sept. 15, 1886]. 



Above olive, below yellow-olive, wings and tail entirely jet black. 



5. Breeding Plumage of Second Year [No. 716, Coll. W. Stone. 

 Harvey's Lake, Pa. June 16, 1891]. 



Above and below scarlet, wings and tail entirely jet black. 



From these descriptions it will be seen that the dull brownish 

 wing feathers of the first plumage are retained until the first annual 

 molt, except the tertials which are molted in the spring when the 

 red body plumage is first assumed. The jet black tail is also ac- 

 quired at this time in all the specimens that I have examined, ex- 

 cept one. In this the molt of the tail has been incomplete, only 

 three black feathers having been assumed. In many birds in the 

 first breeding plumage a few olive feathers persist on the sides of 

 the body and flanks and more rarely on the back. Specimens in 

 the plumage of the second winter also frequently show a few red 

 feathers on these parts. 



A peculiar plumage of the male which does not belong in the 

 regular cycle, but which is of more than casual occurrence, has the 

 scarlet of the normal plumage replaced by bright orange. Other 

 peculiarities, which are of rather frequent occurrence, are the pres- 

 ence of red or orange feathers among the lesser wing coverts. Speci- 

 mens taken in August, showing the annual molt in progress, are 

 striking looking birds. One of these before me is about half molted ; 

 the crown, ear coverts, interscapulum, throat, sides of the abdomen, 

 and spot on the breast are olive, while the hind neck, sides of head, 

 rump, breast, center of abdomen and crissum are scarlet. Speci- 

 mens showing the spring molt are, of course, exactly the reverse of 

 this, but the only one that I have seen was so far advanced that 

 nearly all the green plumage was lost. It was a bird entering upon 

 its first spring, and showed the jet black tail about half grown while 

 the brown remiges were retained and showed no signs of molt. 



Specimens examined : First plumage, 1 ; first winter, 5 ; spring 

 molt, 2 ; first breeding plumage, 14 ; annual molt 4 ; second winter 

 2 ; second spring molt, 1 ; second breeding plumage, 11. 



Female. — I have been unable to examine any specimens in the 

 winter, but from a comparison of spring and fall birds, 1 should 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



think there was at least a partial molt in spring. 

 Family AMPELID2E. 



Ampelis cedrorum (Vieill.). Cedar Waxwing. 



Plumages : first, winter, nuptial. 



Only one molt a year occurs in this species and but little effect is 

 produced by abrasion, except that the plumage becomes lighter, es- 

 pecially above. The molt is very late ; in a specimen taken Sept. 

 27, it has just begun while young birds molt the first plumage (?) 

 of the body in November as shown in specimens taken Nov. 2-22. 



Family HIRUNDINID^J. 



The swallows exhibit certain peculiarities in tbeir molt which 

 have already been described (p. 111). In addition to this they differ 

 from most Passerine species in having the first plumage better devel- 

 oped and more nearly like that of the adult. This plumage is generally 

 retained much longer than in most birds and the young of most of 

 our swallows seem to start on their migration with little or no molt 

 having taken place. Sharpe and Wyatt think that swallows molt 

 in their winter quarters, but in the case of Tachycineta and CheHdcn 

 this is certainly an error and Dr. J. A. Allen 22 has shown that it is 

 equally erroneous in the case of Steh/idopteryx. Some individuals 

 probably start on their migration before the molt has begun. Cer- 

 tainly great quantities of swallows, mainly T'ichycxneta and Chelidon, 

 congregate along the southern New Jersey coast in August, the 

 majority of which are surely migrants, and many of them are 

 molting. In the same way, molting Taclujcinetce occur in abundance 

 in the lower Delaware Valley in October, where there are none in 

 the summer. An adult Chelidon erythrog aster, taken at Philadel- 

 phia, Sept. 1, with the one described beyond, had just begun to molt 

 on the head, but showed no trace of shedding any flight feathers. 

 This bird would hardly have staid to molt, as this species is rarely 

 seen here after that date. 



Progne subis (Linn.). Purple Martin. 



The Martin apparently has no regular spring molt, but some 

 young males acquire scattered black feathers on the under parte at 

 this time. The complete steel-blue plumage is not acquired till the 

 end of the second summer (or perhaps the third?). 



» Auk, 1S05, p. 374. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



Petrochelidon lunifrons (Say). Cliff Swallow. 



From such series of this bird as I have examined, I should judge 

 that it had no spring molt ; whether the young molt the flight 

 feathers at the close of the summer I cannot say, as none of my 

 specimens show any molt. 



Chelidon erythrogaster (Bodd.). Barn Swallow. 



The scarcity, in collections, of adults in winter plumage or in the 

 molt prevents a complete account of the molting of this species. I 

 have only one specimen showing the annual molt in progress, which 

 was taken Aug. 7, 1878, at Philadelphia. New feathers are coming in 

 on the breast, throat, and back, and the tail is just beginning to 

 molt. Xone of the remiges have been cast. Another speci- 

 men, taken Sept. 1 at the some locality, shows a complete molt 

 just finished. As I am not sure whether the young molts its 

 flight feathers with the rest of its first plumage I cannot say whether 

 this is an adult or bird of the year, but my impression is that the 

 young do not molt the wing and tail at this time and that the speci- 

 men is, therefore, an adult. In any case it presents one curious 

 question : The outer rectrices are only .35 in. longer than the next 

 pair (as in all young summer birds). Xow all the spring birds that 

 I have examined have the feathers much longer (.75-1.25 in. longer 

 than the next pair), so that there must be a molt of part of the tail 

 at least, in the spring. I do not think there is any spring molt of 

 the wings or body feathers. 



Tachycineta bicolor (Vieill.). White-bellied Swallow. 



Plumages: first, winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



Male. — A large series of this species, collected in southern Xew 

 Jersey illustrates the changes of plumage very satisfactorily. The 

 annual molt in the adults takes place from July 20 to September 1, 

 at which latter date the winter plumage is generally completed. The 

 birds of the year do not begin to molt until the first week of Sep- 

 tember and are in full plumage, indistinguishable from the adults, 

 by October 15. Apparently there is no spring molt, but the white 

 tips to the wing feathers disappear by abrasion. 



Female. — Two plumages of the female are found, one indistin- 

 guishable from the male, the other much duller and quite brown in 

 the spring. The latter, I think, is the plumage of the first year ; 

 at any rate, in one specimen, it is certainly assumed at the molt of 

 the first plumage. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Clivicola riparia (Linn.). Bank Swallow. 



I can find no evidence of a spring molt in this species, but the 

 plumage shows considerable abrasion at this season. I have seen 

 no molting specimens. 



Females. — Resemble the males at all times. 

 Stelgidopteryx serripennis (And.). 



The above remarks apply equally to this species. 



Family LANIID.ffi. 



Lanius borealis Vieill. Northern Shrike. 



There seems to be a partial molt in spring, but not extensive 

 enough to produce a change in the plumage. One specimen, taken 

 March 20, shows new feathers coming in on the breast and head. 

 Lanius ludovicianus Linn. Loggerhead Shrike. 



A specimen taken October 20, Haddonfield, N. J. (No. 1 ,429, 

 Coll. W.iS.), which shows no sign of molt on the wings, except the ter- 

 tials, and appears, therefore, to be a bird of the year, has nearly 

 completed the body molt and has likewise renewed the tail. Spring 

 specimens show a slight renewal of feathers, as in the preceding spe- 

 cies. 



Family VIREONID.3E. 



The uniform coloration of the feathers in the Vireos helps to ob- 

 scure what little abrasion takes place in the plumage ; and notwith- 

 standing the fresh appearance of the spring dress, I do not think 

 there is a spring molt of any great extent. The few winter spe- 

 cimens that I have examined show no signs of molt. The young 

 in the first winter are like the adults, and the males and females are 

 alike. There are, therefore, only three plumages : first, winter and 

 nuptial, the last two are often scarcely distinguishable. 



Vireo olivaceus (Linn.). Red-eyed Vireo. 



Spring birds are, perhaps, duller colored, but show but little 

 sio-ns of wear. A specimen taken Aug. 27 has nearly completed 

 the molt of body feathers while it is also molting the tail. The 

 wings show no signs of molt, except the tertiala which are generally 

 renewed with the body plumage, so that the specimen must be a 

 bird of the year. 



Vireo gilvus (Vieill.). Warbling Vireo. 



Vireo philadelphicus (Cass.). Philadelphia Vireo. 



Molt as in the preceding. The winter plumages have respectively 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



more buff and olive-yellow beneath than the nuptial dress. No 

 young birds in the first molt have been examined. 



Vireo flavifrons Vieill. Yellow-throated Vireo. 

 Vireo solitarius (Wils.). Solitary Vireo. 



These two birds seem to correspond exactly in the condition of 

 their plumages. The tertials of some individuals show so little 

 abrasion and have the light edgings so perfect that it seems as if 

 they must be renewed in the spring. A young V. flavifrons in the 

 first molt, is renewing only the body plumage. 



Vireo noveboracensis (Ginel.). White-eyed Vireo. 



A young bird in first molt is renewing its tail exactly as in V. 

 olivaceus. Spring specimens show more abrasion than any of the 

 other Vireos, and the edge of the tertials are very much worn, in 

 striking contrast to the last two species. 



Family MNIOTILTID^l. 



A more or less complete spring molt of the body plumage seems 

 to be the rule ih the Warblers but as is usually the case with spring 

 molts we have a very unsatisfactory series of specimens available 

 for study, and are thrown back largely upon a comparison of spring 

 and autumn material. Species of which I have actually seen speci- 

 mens in the process of molting in spring are Dendroica blackbumice, 

 D. discolor, D. castanea, D. palmarum, D. tigrina, D. coronata, and 

 Geothlypis trichas. The question of course arises as to the extent of this 

 molt after the first year. The young of most Warblers in the first 

 autumn differ materially from the adults, and an extensive molt is 

 necessary in the following spring, but upon once gaining the adult 

 plumage they do not change their appearance materially at the next 

 annual molt and, therefore, a complete spring molt in subsequent 

 years is not necessary. Some species, however, change regularly, 

 twice a year. Probably nearly all Warblers have some spring molt, 

 but in many it is restricted to the head and breast after the first 

 season. Regarding the relation of their seasonal plumages, the spe- 

 cies may be grouped as follows : 



1. Adult male at all seasons and young of the year practically alike, 

 Seiurus, Helmitherus, Sylvania mitrata (winter plumage with 

 light tips on black parts). 



2. Winter and nuptial dress of adult male different : Mniotilta 

 varia, Dendroica pensylvanica, D. maculosa, D. striata, D. castanea, 

 D. blackburnuz. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



3. Adult males alike at all seasons, young of the year different : 

 Geothlypis, Sylvania canadensis, S.pusilla, Setophaga, Helmintho- 



phila pinus, H. ruficapilla, Dendroica oestiva, D. virens, D. cceru- 



lescens, I). vigorsil, D. tigrina, D. discolor, Compsoihlypis. 



Regarding a few I am in donbt. 



So far as I know, no Warblers molt the flight feathers in spring, 

 nor do the young molt them with their first plumage. 



Mniotilta varia (Linn.). Black and White Warbler. 



Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



Male. — The worn condition of the plumage of some birds would 

 indicate that the spring molt is not as complete as in most Warblers. 

 Some individuals do not molt the tertials at this time while others 

 certainly do. The plumage of the first winter has only the sides of 

 the body streaked and the streaks dull. The adult winter plumage 

 is as heavily marked as the nuptial dress but has the throat white. 



Female. — Remains in the plumage of the first winter. 



Helminthophila pinus (Linn.). Blue-winged Warbler. 



Plumages : first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter, adult 

 nuptial. 



Male. — Spring birds are always much worn on the tertials and 

 back, and probably have only a partial spring molt. The yellow 

 cap is wanting in the first winter, the lores are dull and the under 

 surface quite dull. Some spring males are dull and tinged with 

 olive below, with the cap ill defined, these I take to be first year 

 birds. Adults are brilliant yellow. 



Female. — Like male, with the same two forms of spring plumage. 



Helminthophila chrysoptera (,Linn.). Golden-winged Warbler. 



Apparently the same plumages as the above. What I take to be 

 the plumage of the first spring is tinted with yellow below. The 

 female has the black replaced by gray. 

 Helminthophila ruficapilla (Wils.i. Nashville Warbler. 



Plumages: first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



The plumage of this species shows still more abrasion in spring, 

 and there would seem to be little or no spring molt at this season. 

 after the first year. Birds in the first winter lack the pure gray on 

 the head, and show little or no chestnut on the cap. 

 Helminthophila peregrina { Wils.i. Tennessee Warbler. 



Apparently has the same number of plumages and molts as the 

 last. Spring birds are much worn. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Helmitherus vermivorus ((imel.). Worm-eating Warbler. 



Plumages : first, winter, nuptial. 



There is scarcely any variation in the plumage of this species 

 after the nestling stage. Spring birds show but little abrasion. 



Compsothlypis americana (Linn.). Parula Warbler. 



Plumages: first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



The spring molt is probably not very marked, as the birds show 

 much abrasion. Fall adults have the breast markings fringed with 

 yellow, which is lost by the breeding season. How much varia- 

 tion there is in the nuptial plumage I cannot say. I had thought 

 the dark-breasted individuals to be birds of the second or third 

 year, but Mr. Brewster has shown that they represent a geogra- 

 phical race, C. americana wnece. Perhaps the younger birds of this 

 race will still be found to be lighter colored. 



Dendroica tigrina (Gmel.). Cape May Warbler. 



Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



A nearly complete spring molt of body plumage takes place the 

 first spring, and a good deal of abrasion follows during May, which 

 brings out the spots on the back and throws all the markings into 

 stronger contrast. Birds in the first winter are very dull and 

 tinged with gray, while adults in winter differ little from spring 

 birds, except that all the feathers are broadly bordered with olive- 

 gray or yellow. This plumage changes to the adult nuptial dress 

 wholly by abrasion, which is very strongly marked in spring adults. 

 Dendroica aestiva (Gmel.). Yellow Warbler. 



Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



There is a complete molt of body feathers the first spring, but it is 

 probably not so extensive in subsequent years, as some spring birds 

 show that the tertials have not been renewed. Young in first win- 

 ter are very dull, with the top of the head quite green. Adults in 

 winter are scarcely distinguishable from spring birds. 



Dendroica caerulescens (Gmel.). Black-throated Blue Warbler. 



Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



The freshness of the flight feathers in some spring specimens 

 seems to indicate that they are sometimes renewed with the rest of 

 the spring plumage. Others are so worn that they probably molted 

 but little at this time. Most fall adults have white edgings to the 

 throat feathers, but others are absolutely indistinguishable from the 

 the freshest spring specimens. Females are always in the brown 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



plumage, like the males in the first winter. One old (?) specimen 

 (May 19, Coll. A. N. S., No. 29,592) is quite gray above. 

 Dendroica coronata (Linn.). Myrtle Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter, adult nuptial. 



A good series of winter and spring examples of this species from 

 southern New Jersey shows the spring molt very satisfactorily. The 

 entire plumage of the head and breast is renewed as well as the 

 greater part of the interscapulum. The tertials are not molted. 

 Old birds, in fall, have more or less gray feathers on the back and 

 black centered feathers on the breast, but they all continue to molt 

 in spring. A spring bird, which I take to be of the second or 

 third year, has the black on the breast uniform, not broken up 

 by white edgings to the feathers. 

 Dendroica maculosa (< i-mi l. . Magnolia Warbler. 



Plumages and molts as in the last. Adults in winter differ from 

 birds of the year in the heavy stripes on the sides of - the body, and 

 large black centers to feathers of the back. Spring birds of the 

 second or third year have the interscapulum solid black, all the way 

 to the yellow rump. 

 Dendroica pensylvanica (Linn.). Chestnut-sided Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



Spring molt rather more extensive than in the last two species, 

 and the adult in fall always more distinct from the nuptial plumage, 

 only differing from the bird of the year in the chestnut stripes on 

 the sides. The tertials are not renewed in spring. 

 Dendroica caerulea (Wils.). Cerulean Warbler. 



According to the British Museum Catalogue, the winter adult is 

 practically like the spring bird, so that the plumages will be as in 

 D. ccBrulescen8. 



Dendroica castanea (Wils.). Bay-breasted Warbler. 



Exactly like D. pensylvanica in number and relations of plum- 

 age. 

 Dendroica striata (Forst.), Black poll Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first nuptial, first winter, adult winter, adult 

 nuptial. 



This species, unlike the preceding, renews the tertials in spring. 

 What I take to be the first nuptial plumage shows remains of the 

 olive winter dress on the crown and sides of the neck. Adults 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



in fall are much whiter beneath than the young and have heavier 

 streaks above. Females remain in a plumage like that of winter. 

 I am uncertain as to the extent of molt in spring. 



Dendroica blackburniae (Gmel.). Blackburnian Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



Some individuals molt the tertials in spring, others do not. Adults 

 differ from young in winter, in the brighter yellow throat and 

 breast. 



Dendroica virens (Gmel.). Black-tbroated Green Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



After the first season, the spring molt is much less extensive than 

 in the species just preceding and in some individuals there seems to 

 be little or no molt. Adults in fall have the black throat as in 

 spring, but all the feathers are edged with white, which is afterwards 

 lost by abrasion. 



Dendroica vigorsii (Aud.). Pine Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



After the first year there is little or no spring molt. Winter 

 adults are nearly like summer examples. 



Dendroica palmarum hypochrysea Ridgw. Yellow Palm Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



The spring molt is restricted to the breast and crown, and the 

 back shows much abrasion. 



Dendroica discolor (Vieill.). Prairie Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



The adult birds in autumn are practically like spring specimens 

 but have the black stripes on the breast obscured by yellow edgings. 

 Birds in their first winter plumage lack the chestnut on the back 

 and have but few black streaks below. The tertials are not renewed 

 in spring. 



Seiurus aurocapillus (Linn.). Ovenbird. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



Spring birds are practically indistinguishable from autumn exam- 

 ples and there is probably a pretty extensive spring molt. June and 

 July specimens show much abrasion compared with those taken 

 in April. 



Seinrus noveboracensis (Gmel.). Water Thrush. 

 Seiurus motacilla (Vieill.). Louisiana Water Thrush. 



The above remarks apply equally well to these species but with- 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



out a series of winter specimens it is impossible to ascertain the 

 extent of spring molt in any Seiurus. 



Geothlypis trichas (Linn.). Maryland Yellow-throat. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 



The spring molt seems confined to the breast, throat and sides of 

 the head. Adults in winter have the hood much obscured by lighter 

 edgings, while young have it reduced to a patch on the ear coverts 

 and sides of neck. 



Female. — Sometimes has no spring molt whatever. 



Geothlypis Philadelphia (Wils.). Mourning Warbler. 



Plumages and molts apparently as in the preceding species. 



Geothlypis agilis (Wils.). Connecticut Warbler. 



Plumages and molts as in G. trichas. The spring molt is mainly 

 restricted to the throat. Adults in spring and autumn are practic- 

 ally indistinguishable below, but the former show abrasion above. 

 Young in the first winter have the throat and breast brownish in- 

 stead of gray. 



Geothlypis formosa (Wils.). Kentucky Warbler. 



Plumages and molts as in G. trichas. I have no specimens of the 

 young in their first winter and cannot say whether the black mask 

 is complete then or not. 



Icteria virens (Linn.). Yellow-breasted Chat. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



There is scarcely any difference in spring and autumn specimens, 

 except that the former show abrasion above. The spring molt is 

 probably restricted to the under surface. 

 Sylvania mitrata (Gmel.). Hooded Warbler. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



Mr. Wm. Palmer, 23 has shown that the male of this species acquires 

 the full black hood the first year, and that the female varies in suc- 

 ceeding molts in the amount of black, finally attaining the full hood 

 also. 



Sylvania pusilla (Wils.). Wilson's Warbler. 



Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter. 

 Spring and fall adults are practically alike, and there is evidently 

 a spring molt. Young of the year lack the black cap. Females 



23 Auk, 1894, p, 2<7. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



have more or less black on the head and perhaps sometimes attain 

 the full plumage of the male, as in the last species. 



Sylvania canadensis (Linn.). Canadian Warbler. 



Plumages and molts as in the last. The adult in autumn is 

 exactly like the spring bird. 



Setophaga ruticilla (Linn.). American Redstart. 



Plumages, first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter, adult nup- 

 tial. 



Spring molt is mainly restricted to the under surface in the first sea- 

 son at least and probably afterward. Young in their first nuptial dress 

 differ from that of the first winter only in the acquisition of a few 

 scattered black feathers ; new tertials are sometimes acquired in 

 spring also. Some winter adults have gray edgings to the black 

 feathers, others are indistinguishable from spring birds. 



Family MOTACILLID.SI. 



Anthus pensilvanicus (Lath.). Tit Lark. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



There is considerable molt of the body plumage in spring. Spec- 

 imens taken in January and February are much abraded and 

 resemble June birds. 



Family TROGLODYTID-E2. 



Mimus polyglottos (Linn.). Mocking-bird. 



Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



There appears to be no spring molt, at least no specimens show 

 traces of it. April birds show much abrasion, especially on the 

 plumage of the back, and the buff tints of winter disappear entirely 

 from the lower surface. 

 Galeoscoptes carolinensis (Linn.). Catbird. 



Plumages and molt apparently as in the last. Some spring birds 

 have the plumage quite fresh, but abrasion produces very little effect 

 in this species, as shown by a comparison of spring and midsummer 

 examples, so that I do not consider this as indicating a spring molt. 

 Furthermore, none of the winter specimens examined show any 

 indications of molt. 



Harporhynchus rufus (Linn.). Brown Thrasher. 



Plumages and molt as in Mimus. Spring birds are somewhat 

 abraded, especially on the head, while the spots on the breast appear 

 " clipped " at the tip and somewhat bifurcate. Some fall birds are 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



rather pruinose on the head and back. One of these specimens in 

 the molt is proved to be an old bird, while other undoubted old 

 birds have the more tawny plumage, so that I am not sure whether 

 this slightly different coloration represents a bird of any particular 

 age or is merely an individual variation. 

 Thryothorus ludovicianus (Lath.). Carolina Wren. 



The molts and plumages of this bird are exactly parallel to those 

 of Harporhynchus rufus and, so far as I can ascertain, there is no 

 spring molt. The feathers of the crown are much abraded in all 

 spring birds, and in late summer the abrasion of the entire plumage 

 is extreme. 

 Troglodytes aedon Vieill. House Wren. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



There is no spring molt in the House Wren and the contrast be- 

 tween spring and fall specimens, caused by abrasion, is striking. 



Troglodytes hiemalis Vieill. Winter Wren. 



Plumages and molt exactly as in the House Wren. 

 Cistothorus stellaris (Licht.). Short-billed Marsh Wren. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



There is a complete spring molt of the body feathers in this 

 bird as shown in a series taken at Tarpon Springs, Fla., April 15th. 

 They become very much abraded by July. 

 Cistothorus palustris (Wils.). Long-billed Marsh Wren. 



Molts as in the preceding.* 



Family PARIDiE. 

 Sitta carolinensis Lath. White-breasted Nuthatch. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



There is no spring molt, and, excepting on the flight feathers, 

 abrasion is not very apparent until after the breeding season. 



Sitta canadensis Linn. Red-bellied Nuthatch. 



Molt as in the preceding. 



Parus bicolor Linn. Tufted Titmouse. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



No. spring molt, and but little effect produced by abrasion. 

 Parus atricapillus Linn. Black-capped Chioka lee. 

 Parus carolinensis And. Carolina chickadee. 



Molt as in the preceding, all plumages very similar to each other. 



* Cerihia apparently molts exactly a* in Troglodytes aedon. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Family SYLVIID^. 



Regulus satrapa Licht. Golden-crowned Kinglet. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 

 No spring molt. 



Regulus calendula (Linn.). Ruby-crowned Kinglet. 



Plumages and molt as in the last. Mr. C. TV. Beckham- 4 states 

 that the young male generally acquires the red crown patch when 

 the first plumage is molted but not always, and that the female never 

 acquires it. Several variations in the color of the red patch have 

 also been described. 



Polioptila caerulea (Linn.). Blue-gray Gnatcatcher. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



While none of the February or April specimens show signs of 

 molt, I think that some individuals have a partial molt in spring 

 and I have examined a specimen of P. alblventris Lawr., showing 

 the spring molt in progress (March 19th.). 



Family TURDID^l. 



Turdus mustelinus Gmel. Wood Thrush. 



Plumages, first, winter, nuptial. 



Although I have no winter or early spring specimens of the Wood 

 Thrush, I consider that there is only a slight spring molt if any. 



Turdus aliciae Baird. Gray-cheeked Thrush. 



Turdus ustulatus swainsonii (Cab.). Olive-backed Thrush. 



The above remarks apply equally to these species. 

 Turdus aonalaschkae pallasii (Cab.). Hermit Thrush. 



I have examined a large series of Hermit Thrushes, including 

 winter specimens, and can find no traces of a spring molt. The 

 abrasion is more marked than in the last two species. 



Turdus fusoescens Steph. Wilson's Thrush. 



Plumages and molt as in the preceding. 



Merula migratoria (Linn.). Robin. 

 Sialia sialis (Linn.). Bluebird. 



Plumages, first, winter and nuptial. 



No spring molt occurs, but some abrasion is seen in spring birds. 



24 Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., 1885, p. 625. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 

 Plate IV. 



Fig. 1. Wing of Merula migratoria with molt started ; shaded parts 

 represent the new feathers. Quill No. 6 has been shed but 

 the new feather has not yet appeared. 



Fig. 2. Wing of Tachycineta bicolor ; molt of primaries well ad- 

 vanced. 



Fig. 3. Wing of Chcetura pelagica, with molt of primaries well ad- 

 vanced. 



Fig. 4. Tail of Tachycineta bicolor, with molt of rectrices half com- 

 pleted. 



Fig. 5. Breast feather of A ntrostomxis vociferus, first plumage, bear- 

 ing a down feather at its tip (much enlarged). 



Fig. 6. Tip of breast feather in sheath of Stiirnella magna, winter 

 plumage; forcing out a first plumage feather on its tip (en* 

 larged). 



Fig. 7. Feather from breast of Dolichonyx oryzivorm Ad. S show- 

 ing light border which is lost by abrasion. 



Fig. 8. Terminal part of tertial of Stiirnella magna, winter plumage. 



Fig. 9. Same in late summer, showing loss of entire terminal por- 

 tion even with the tips of the secondaries ; also loss by 

 abrasion of all the light border and spots, including the 

 entire terminal part of the barbs, from where the light color 

 begins to their extremities. 



Plate V. 



Fig. 1. Tail of Dryobates pubesceiis showing the beginning of the 



molt. The third quill has just been shed and the tip of the 



new one has not yet appeared. 

 Fig. 2. Tail of Gaboscoptescarolviensis showing the molt under way. 

 Fig. 3. Wing of Ceryle alcyon showing the beginning of the molt 



with the fourth primary, instead of the innermost as is 



usually the case. 

 Fig. 4. Wing of Plectrophenax nivalis with molt of primaries and 



tertials in progress. 

 Fig. 5. Wing of Dendroica astiva showing molt of primaries and 



tertials almost complete, while the secondaries are about 



half grown. Dotted line represents the position of feathers 



when the growth is completed. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



Fig. 6. Feather from breast of Habia ludoviciana showing the un- 

 worn projecting black tip. Dotted line indicates the 

 original size of feather, the edge having been lost by abrasion 

 (enlarged). 



Fig. 7. Terminal portion of tertial of Habia ludoviciana in winter 

 plumage showing white border spot. 



Fig. 8. Same from spring specimen with white portion lost by 

 abrasion. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



February 4. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: — Peter F. 

 Rothermel, August 15, 1895; Henry Hazlehurst, January 11, 1896; 

 Jesse S. Walton, January 30, 1896; H. Ernest Goodman, M. D., 

 February 3, 1896. 



February 11. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



The death of Charles Wachsmith, a correspondent, February 7, 

 1896, was announced. 



A paper entitled " A Note on a Uniform Plan of Describing the 

 Human Skull," by Harrison Allen, M. D., was presented for pub- 

 lication. 



February 18. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "Contributions to the Life History of Plants, 

 No. XII," by Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication and 

 referred to the Publication Committee. 



February 25. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Forty-five persons present. 



The death of Owen Jones AVister, M. D., February 24, - 

 was announced. 



Papers entitled as follows were presented for publication: — 



"The Coloring Matter of the Aril of Celastrus Scandens," by 

 Ida A. Kellar. 



"The Crystallization of Molybdenite," by Amos P. Brown. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



The following were elected members :— Homer E. Hoopes, A. 

 Feldpauch, Vickers Oberholtzer, J. Edward Farnum, George L. 

 Farnum, H. W. Wenzel, Morris Earle and Arthur N". Leeds. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 







12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



NOTE ON A UNIFORM PLAN OF DESCRIBING THE HUMAN SKULL. 

 By Harrison Allen, M. D. 



In a recent study of the human skull I attempted to frame a 

 method of uniform description which answers a useful purpose. As- 

 suming that the skull presents a norma frontalis, a norma basilaris, 

 a norma lateralis and a norma verticalis, the following order of pro- 

 cedure is recommended. Beginning at the norma frontalis and 

 proceeding from above downward I note the following : 



The degree of prominence of the glabella and supraorbital ridges, 

 by denning an arc between nasion and ophryon, by a piece of flexible 

 wire, drawing a chord for the arc and measuring the versed sine. 

 (In a given case it would read as follows — g. and s. o. r.=5 mm.;. 

 Next the degree of deflection of the supraorbital margin is recorded 

 on a protractor. (In a given case s. o. ni.=40 o ). 



The nasal bones yield three portions: — the frontal portion which 

 is bounded above by the frontal bone ; the maxillary portion, which 

 lies between the frontal bone and premaxilla ; the pr emu \xillary por- 

 tion which lies in contact with the premaxilla. The frontal portion 

 is measured from the union of the nasal bone and the ascending pro- 

 cess of the maxilla to the proximal free end of the lateral margin of 

 the nasal bone. The maxillary portion constitutes the greater part 

 of the bone and lies entirely in contact with the ascending process 

 of the maxilla. The premaxillary portion is the least well denned 

 and lies on the lateral margin of the bone a few millimeters above 

 the free distal margin of the bone. The suture between the pre- 

 maxilla and maxilla is never found after an early stage of develop- 

 ment ; notwithstanding this, the manner in which the premaxilla 

 and the nasal bones unite in the apes, taken together with the ranges 

 of variation in this same line, as noted in the human subject, give 

 the observer an accurate impression of the extent of naso-premaxil- 

 lary junction. The texture of the naso-premaxillary suture is dis- 

 tinctive. The nasal bone is further divided into two parts, that 

 which lies in contact with the frontal bone and the ethmoid bone 

 and is outside of the nasal chamber, and that which lies below the 

 one last named and is entirely within the nasal chamber ; the first 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



part will receive the name of radix and the last part the name of 

 salient. The degrees of angulation of both radix and salient being 

 measured on a protractor we have in a given case the following for- 

 mulae : n. f. 4 mm. ; n. mx. 10 mm. ; n. pr. 2 mm. ; r. 7 mm., 90° ; 

 s. 10 mm., 40°. 



The next region in order is the vestibule of the nasal chamber, 

 which is accepted as the nasal aspect of the premaxilla as seen at 

 the floor of the nose. When the parts of this region are as in 

 the child, it is called pcedomorphic, but when the pantamorphic 

 features have not been retained the departures from this type are 

 defined as follows : The height and elevation of the vestibule just in 

 advance of the incisive foramina receives the name of incisive emi- 

 nence ; the degree of definition of the line extending from the sides 

 of the anterior nasal aperture to the anterior spine receives the name 

 of the alveolar line, since it defines the alveolus proximally ; the 

 alveolus measured from the alveolar line to the alveolar point of 

 Broca (a.— 15 mm.). The nasal vestibule may be in addition 

 macrolophic, microlophic or analophic, depending upon the degree 

 of development of the incisor crest. This is held to be a better clas- 

 sification of the parts than that presented by writers. The most 

 primitive type is the analophic ; the most frequent in modern culti- 

 vated races is the macrolophic. The North American Indian tends 

 to be microlophic and passes from this infrequently to the analophic. 

 He is rarely macrolophic. 



Turning to the norma basilaris and describing from before back- 

 ward, the hard palate is described in the terms of Broca hyperbolic, 

 parabolic, or U-shaped. The choanae are either paedomorphic or 

 broader at base than at apex ; the diameter is to be taken (ch. 

 paedom. diam. 22 mm.). The pyramidal process of the palatal bone 

 measures in length in a given case 12 mm. (pyr. pr.=12 mm.). 



The spinous process of the sphenoid bone, whether it separates 

 from or unites with the tympanic bone, is to be noted ; if united with 

 this, whether the line of union is posterior to that of the Gasserian 

 fissure. In a given case (sp. pr. not in contact with tym.). 



The foramen lacerum medium whether open or closed is to be ob- 

 served. In a given case (f. 1. m. open). The petrosal part of the 

 tympanic bone whether narrowed or broad, by being inflated on the 

 median aspect. In a given case (p. inflated). 



Passing now to the norma lateralis, it is noted that the temporal 

 ridge is found interrupted at the stephauion ; in a given case 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



(S-interruption=10 mm.) and that the temporal ridge is divided into 

 two parts, the fronto-temporal ridge and the parietal-temporal ridge 

 In a given case (fr. t. r. spinose: pt. r. nil.). The parieto-temporal 

 ridge as it reaches the lambdoidal suture begins to be slightly 

 raised above the plane of the parietal bone and is joined to the 

 occipital bone near the asterion by a harmonic suture; or, as it 

 reaches the lambdoidal suture it has no influence in changing the 

 serrated character of this line which extends to the asterion in the 

 manner described by writers. In a given case we have (p. t. r. har- 

 monic near A., 3 mm.). The posterior margin of the frontal pro- 

 cess of the malar bone may be produced in a conspicuous process, 

 (the marginal process) or it may be absent. In a given case (marg. 

 pr. trenchant.=5 mm. high). If desirable the height oftheprocess 

 could be measured by a line drawn across its base. The interrup- 

 tion of the temporal ridge at the stephanion, the harmonic char- 

 acter of the lambdoidal suture near the asterion, and the large size 

 of the marginal process correlate with the size of the temporal 

 muscle. 



The line of the parieto-squamosal suture at its junction with the por- 

 tion of the temporal bone back of the squamosa may be marked by 

 a mortise, which answers to the summit of the petrosa as it joins the 

 side of the skull ; thus we have (m.=3 mm.). 



The term " sconce " is used to express in a general sense the region 

 on the norma verticalis which lies between the parieto-temporal 

 ridges. This diameter at its narrowest part is recorded, in a given 

 instance as (sc. 110 mm.). 



The lower jaw yields at the condyloid process, two facets, the 

 lateral, w T hich articulates with the zygoma, and the median which 

 articulates with the squamosa beneath the brain-case. The median 

 facet is more variable than the lateral and may be horizontal and 

 inclined upward, or horizontal, inclined downward. In a given case 

 (condyl. pr. med. fac. horizontal). The coronoid process may pro- 

 ject at base so far forward as to conceal in whole or in part the 

 third molar when the parts are seen in norma lateralis, or it may lie 

 so far back as to permit the third molar to be seen. In a given case 

 (cr. pr. concealing 3 mm.). The mental foramen may be on a line with 

 the first molar, in the interval between premolar and first molar, on 

 the line of the second premolar, or on a line between the first and Bec- 

 ond premolar. In a given case (m. f. on line of 3 m.). The mas- 

 seteric impression ends on a line answering to the angle of the jaw or 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



stops at a distance proximal to it ; the area between those two lines 

 constitutes the lemurine process. In a given instance (lm. pr.=3 

 mm. wide). The genial spine may be single or double. The genial 

 crest trenchant, rudimental, or absent. In a given case (g. s. double : 

 g. c. nil.). 



In reviewing the characters which have been thus employed the 

 glabella and supra-orbital ridge (g. and s. o. r.) almost universally 

 constitute male characters of low grade. We expect in primitive 

 man. this character to be better developed than in more recent man 

 and be more apt to enter into composition of the supra-orbital margin 

 (s. o. m.). No doubt is felt in accepting these important features in 

 the descriptions of skulls. The degree of declination of s. o. r. is of 

 importance in distinguishing long, slender from broad, flat faces; 

 indeed, it stands as a sign of character of face. Analysis of the nasal 

 region needs no defence since craniologists are of one mind, that on 

 the whole the best characters separating crania are to be found in 

 this region ; hence, the care taken to define the relations of the naso- 

 frontal, the maxillary and the premaxillary portions. For the terms 

 radix and salient I am alone responsible. The value of the vestibule 

 would appear also to admit of no argument. The distinction be- 

 tween paedomorphic and other forms in the writer's judgment is the 

 best means of separating the types of the anterior nasal apertures 

 from one another. 



The value of the alveolus and the shape of the hard palate as 

 defined by Broca needs no comment at this place. The length of 

 the pyramidal process has been neglected by writers. I find it of 

 value in the comparative anatomy of race. The shape of the choanse 

 having been defined I recognize two types, one of which is pantomor- 

 phic and is oval and the other in which the base is wider than the 

 apex. The group last named may be subdivided by the rectangular 

 form in which the basal and the lateral contour unite to form a right 

 angle ; and the produced in which the basal contour is extended 

 downward and outward beyond the line of the lateral contour. The 

 study of the choana3 is of importance ; the limitations have not been 

 satisfactorily determined. The degrees of development of the spin- 

 ous process of the sphenoid bone have likewise been neglected. It 

 overlaps the line of the Gasserian and the sphenoido-tympanic fis- 

 sures forward to a remarkable extent and, for the most part sex 

 can be distinguished, the process being large and prominent in 

 males, and rudimental or absent in females. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The divisions of the temporal ridge into two parts, the fronto- 

 temporal and the parietotemporal and an interruption between the 

 two is one of the best characters by which sex can be distinguished ; 

 the same is true of the conversion of the asterionic portion of the 

 lambdoidal suture from a serrated to a harmonic type. 



The value of the marginal process of the malar bone in distin- 

 guishing sex is conceded. The mortise in the squamoso-parietal 

 suture and the division of the condyloid process into two facets are 

 of secondary value. 



The degree of concealment of the third molar has been over- 

 looked, considering the significance that this relation possesses in 

 studies of the horizontal ramus. It is evident that the degree of con- 

 cealment of the third molar is in direct ratio to the reduction of size 

 of the dentigerous portion of the bone and (all things being equal) 

 is an evidence of the departure from the primitive type. The phylo- 

 genetic value of the so-called lemurine process of Albrecht needs to 

 be defined. I have noted this process in the gibbon. The position 

 of the mental foramen with respect to the sockets of the premolars 

 and the first molar teeth is a character in osteology not to be gain- 

 said. In view of the results of Topinard in studying the region of 

 the mental symphysis in primitive man it is necessary to describe 

 accurately all structural variation at this place, hence peculiarities 

 in the shapes of the genial spine and the genial crest are given. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ZOOLOGY OF TENNESSEE. 

 No. 3, MAMMALS. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



In the following annotated list of the mammalia of Tennessee I 

 have pursued the same plan of treatment as in the paper preceding 

 this 1 on the avifauna of the same region. The list comprehends all 

 the species known to belong to the Tennessee fauna, including not 

 only the feral mammals now existing in the State but those which 

 have been exterminated since the advent of the white man. An 

 itinerary of the trip made during the months of May and June, 

 1895, when I secured the collection and field notes forming the basis 

 of this paper, will be found on pages 376 to 381 of the Proceedings 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for 1895, and 

 on the two following pages there is a brief resume of the zoo-geography 

 of Tennessee which may be of use to the more critical reader in this 

 connection. 



References to the mammals of Tennessee in scientific literature 

 are so rare and, so far as I am able to search, are generally of so lit- 

 tle value, that it would be useless to attempt to tabulate them in 

 this paper. In popular literature the hunting stories of David 

 Crockett form, perhaps, the most voluminous and reliable (?) source 

 of earlier information on this topic, and these have been supple- 

 mented in later times by occasional papers and notes published in 

 Forest and Stream. The historic literature of Tennessee, so far as 

 I have read it, adds but little to the information which may be 

 gleaned from literature devoted to the exploits of the aforementioned 

 Crockett. 2 When taken from other sources the authority will be 

 given. 



Much of whatever value may attach to this contribution to our 

 hitherto meagre knowledge of the mammals of Tennessee, especially 

 the following notes on the habits of certain species, is due to the 

 close observations and generous assistance of my friend Mr. B. C. 

 Miles, of Brownsville, Tennessee, of whose labors in the ornithology 

 of the same region I have already'spoken in a previous paper. 



^roc. Acad. Nat Sci., Phila., 1895, pp. 463-501. 



2 With the exception of references to the buffalo, nearly all of which date 

 from Haywood's Civil and Political History of Tennessee. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Other aid in the preparation of this paper will be duly acknowl- 

 edged in its proper place. The order of families and genera here 

 adopted is largely based on the classification of Flower and Lyddeker 

 in their recent work on the mammalia. 



Order MARSUPIALIA. 

 Family DIDELPH^IDiE. 



Genus DIDELPHIS Linnaeus. 



1. Didelphis marsupialis virginiana (Kerr). Virginia Opossum. 



I did not see this species, but it is accounted common all over the 

 State below elevations of 2,000 feet. Mr. Miles says the negroes of 

 Haywood and Lauderdale Counties claim two species, ODe with 

 black, the other with white feet, but he thinks them identical. 

 There is probably a tendency in the opossums of southwestern 

 Tennessee to the Texan form, D. m. califomica. 



Order UNGULATA. 

 Family BOVICffi. 



Genus BISON II. Smith. 



2. Bison bison (L.). American Iii^nn. Jiuft'alo. 



In his Monograph of The American Bisons 3 Dr. J. A. Allen 

 presents us with nearly all that is obtainable in literature regarding 

 the history of this animal in Tennessee. From these sources we 

 know that they formerly passed over the Cumberland and Great 

 Smoky mountain ranges by way of the Holston and French Broad 

 Rivers, to and from the Valley of Fast Tennessee. 



The number and frequeucy of these migrations, however, were 

 not great, by far the larger number of buffalo being confined to 

 the Cumberland Valley and its tributaries in Middle Tennessee and 

 no mention being made of their occurrence in Western Tennessee. 



The point of greatest abundance was undoubtedly in the " blue- 

 grass region " of the vicinity of Nashville, especially about the salt 

 and sulphur springs of Mansker's Creek, Madison's Lick, Lickton, 

 etc., in Davidson County. Buffalo River is the most southwestern 

 locality which appears to have been the haunt of this animal, and our 

 authority for this rests solely on the traditional name. The same 

 remarks apply to towns named Buffalo in Humphreys and Law- 

 rence Counties, and seem to indicate that the bison ranged to a 



"Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Cambridge, Vol. IV.. No. 10, pp. 92, 102, 112, 114. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



greater or less extent along the southern boundaries of the State in 

 this region. On the west Cumberland plateau, there is Buffalo 

 Valley, in Putnam County, and in the Smoky Mountain range, a 

 Buffalo Ridge in Washington County, and a place called Bison on 

 the Pigeon River in Cocke County. 



At the period of its earliest settlement, the hills and coves of the 

 Allegheny Mountains in Tennessee, were in many places covered 

 with large tracts of native grasses 4 which formed the pasture lands 

 of herds of elk, and attracted, in summer, the bison from the low- 

 lauds. 



The pristine condition of the country around Nashville may 

 be gathered from the following quotation from Ramsey's Annals : 

 " When the first settlers came to the Bluff [site of Nashville,] 

 in 1779-'80, Haywood says the country had the appearance of 

 one which had never before been cultivated. There was no sign of 

 any cleared land nor other appearance of former cultivation. 

 Nothing was presented to the eye but one large plain of woods and 

 cane, frequented by buffalo, elk, deer, wolves, foxes and other 

 animals suited to the climate. The lands adjoining the French 

 Lick [at Nashville] which Mansker in 1769, when he first hunted 

 there, called an old field, was a large open space frequented and 

 trodden by buffaloes, whose large paths led to it from all parts of 

 the counti*y and there concentred." 



Numerous accounts from various sources indicate that the cen- 

 tral basin of Tennessee and the blue-grass region of Kentucky, 

 connecting therewith, were not inhabited by Indians when first 

 discovered, but formed a sort of traditional game preserve and 

 hunting ground upon which the hostile tribes of Chickasaws, 

 Natchez, Creeks, Cherokees and Shawnees assembled at certain sea- 

 sons, to hunt the buffalo and, incidentally, each other. In Ramsey 

 (p. 193), we read that in the summer of 1777, Capt. De Membrune 

 living at Easton's Station, near Nashville, " saw no Indians * * * 

 but immense numbers of buffaloes and other game." In February 

 of the same year, it is stated that the same party " in their excur- 

 sions had seen no Indians, but immense herds of buffaloes. One of 

 their companions, William Bowen, had been overran by a gang of 

 these animals and died from the bruises he received." 



From " A short Description of the State of Tennessee," a booklet 

 printed for Matthew Carey in 1796, the following paragraph may 



'Ramsey, Ann. of Tenn., 1853, p. 96. 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



be cited as showing the character of country, which formed the 

 favorite buffalo range in the early days of Tennessee : " The land 

 on the Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers is generally well timbered. 

 In some places there are glades of rich land without timber, but 

 these are not frequent or large * * * The glades are covered 

 with wild rye, buffalo grass and pea vine. * * * The under- 

 growth in many places is cane 15 to 20 feet high, so close together 

 as to exclude all other plants." 



From the accounts in Haywood's History, we can gather that, 

 the buffaloes were not migratory in that latitude, but remained 

 throughout the year. In 1779 a company of Watauga adventurers 

 planted a field of corn on the present site of Nashville. " After 

 the crop was made, Overhall, White and Swanson were left to keep 

 the buffaloes out of the unenclosed fields of corn, while the re?t of 

 the party returned for their families." The abundance of these 

 animals and other game in Middle Tennessee is proved by the fol- 

 lowing from Ramsey (p. 450). "Michael Stoner this year [17' S| J], 

 discovered Stoner's Lick and Stoner's Creek. The woods abounded 

 in game, and the hunters procured a full supply of meat for the 

 inhabitants by killing bears, buffalo and deer. A party of twenty 

 men went up the Caney Fork as high as Flinn's Creek, and 

 returned in canoes with their meat during the winter. In their 

 hunting excursion they killed 105 bears, 75 buffaloes and more than 

 80 deer." This record is interesting, as it accounts for the naming 

 of Buffalo Valley in the west end of Putnam County, and proves 

 the former abundance of these animals in that and Smith County. 



Regarding the presence of buffaloes in East Tennessee we have 

 fewer and less definite records. Ramsey tells us, (p. 69) that in 

 1764, "Daniel Boon, who still lived in the Yadkin * * * came 

 again this year [to Tennessee and Kentucky] to explore the coun- 

 try — Callaway [his hunting companion] was at the ?ide of B""U. 

 when approaching the spurs of the Cumberland Mountain and in 

 view of the vast herds of buffalo grazing in the vallies between 

 them, he exclaimed, ' I am richer than the man mentioned in script- 

 ure, who owned the cattle on a thousand hill? — I own the wild 

 beasts of more than a thousand vallies. 3 



In other places we read that the route taken by explorers from 

 North Carolina and Virginia to the Cumberland River valley was 

 by way of Cumberland Gap. which lies on the boundary between 

 Claiborne County, Tennessee and Bell County, Kentucky. There 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



is little doubt that from some commanding point in that locality, 

 Boon made these observations, and that they related to both the 

 States upon whose common boundary line he then stood. 



While at Allardt on the high plateau of Fentress County, I con- 

 versed with Mr. Bruno Gernt, who stated that he had heard from 

 old residents in that country that buffaloes once abounded in the 

 Obey River valleys of Fentress and Overton Counties. Writing to 

 Mr. Gernt for more definite information, he referred me to other 

 gentlemen on the subject who have failed to respond to my letters. 

 Mr. Gernt says, however, he is informed that an old resident, now 

 dead, named John Young, killed the last buffalo in Fentress County 

 but he does not give the date of its capture. 



In West Tennessee the buffalo seems to have been unknown, so 

 far at least, as history, tradition or remains have given evidence. 

 This condition of affairs, if a fact, seems unaccountable from a 

 faunal or geographical standpoint, as the flora of much of this 

 division of the State is almost precisely like that of the east bank 

 of the Tennessee River, which was frequented by buffaloes. That the 

 river could form any great barrier to the passage of this animal 

 from Middle to West Tennessee is not credible, when we remem- 

 ber that they had already crossed the Cumberland, and have been 

 known to swim waters even more formidable in the valleys of the 

 Missouri and Red River during their migrations. 



The absolute silence of Davy Crockett on this subject, is very 

 significant proof of the absence of the buffalo on the western border 

 of the State. Mr. Miles thus comments on the matter : " I have often 

 thought of and asked in the last forty years about buffaloes in this 

 section ; never met any one who ever heard of a buffalo here, or 

 saw indications that they ever were. * * * Blue grass is not 

 indigenous to our section and I doubt if buffaloes were ever numer- 

 ous here as in Kentucky and Middle Tennessee, though certainly 

 there must have been isolated specimens. I never heard of the 

 remains of one, nor did they have roads or wallows, which the only 

 writers on Kentucky and Middle Tennessee tell of." 



The reader is referred to later remarks on the elk for refer- 

 ence to the bisons once kept on the Belle Meade farm by General 



Harding. 



Family CERVID^. 



Genus DORCELAPHUS Gloger. 



3. Dorcelaphus virginianus (Bodd.). Virginia Deer. 



When we consider the large amount of wild land in the three 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



main divisions of the State, it is surprising how effectually the Vir- 

 ginia Deer has been exterminated over the greater part of Tennes- 

 see. This is probably owing largely to the number of negroes and 

 " poor whites," who infest these districts, and spend their lives in 

 the uncertain pursuit of hunting, rather than in earning an honest 

 livelihood. 



A few remain in wilder parts of the Cumberland table-land, but 

 even there they are rarely taken. I found their fresh track on the 

 bluffs near Sawyer's Springs. Mr. Miles refers to them in his 

 vicinity as follows : " In my county, [Haywood] as far as I can 

 gather, there are about 20 [wild ones] now alive — one buck was 

 killed in February and a doe in August. * * * We are mak- 

 ing a desperate effort to restore this animal, and I think, with the 

 sentiment now prevailing, will make a success of it." Mr. Rags- 

 dale, proprietor of Cloudland Hotel, thinks the deer have been ex- 

 tirpated from Roan Mountain and that one would have to go many 

 miles into the mountain valleys of North Carolina to find them. 



Mr. A. B. Wingfield, in Forest and Stream for December 14th, 

 1894, states "The Cumberland Mountain range has been almost 

 entirely depleted of its stock of deer. Would you believe it if I 

 were to tell you that last year there were 248 carcasses of deer 

 shipped from the small town of Crossville in Cumberland County 

 * * * I am glad to report that the last Tennessee legislature 

 passed a law forbidding the killing of deer in live of our mountain 

 counties (Cumberland, Claiborne. Sett, Morgan and Anderson) 

 for a period of five years." 



Genus CERVUS Linnaeus. 

 4. Cervus canadensis (Erxl. i. Wapiti or Elk. 



At the beginning of the present century, this noble animal was 

 probably a visitant to every county in the State. It not only 

 abounded in the high passes and coves of the southern Alleghenies; 

 but, associated with the buffalo, it frequented the licks near the 

 present site of Nashville. L r :ive it- name to some of the rivers and 

 creeks of the southern counties of Middle Tennessee, and roamed 

 through the glades and canebrakea of tin 1 Mississippi bottoms. The 

 redoubtable Crockett, during his residence in Obion and Dyer 

 Counties, gives repeated instances of the occurrence ot' the Wapiti 

 in the bottom lands, and it formed no small part of his larder in 

 the period between the years 1820 and 1830. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Mr. Miles, after careful inquiry about the elk in his region 

 writes me, " The last elk killed in West Tennessee that I can learn 

 of was at Reelfoot Lake about 1849. The late David Merri wether 

 of Madison County, Tennessee, killed it. In 1865 I heard that an 

 elk was killed in Obion County." 



In Putnam's History of Middle Tennessee, (page 127), there is 

 a foot-note which states that on the famous Belle Meade farm, south 

 of Nashville, General William G. Harding had "two hundred deer, 

 twenty buffaloes and half dozen elk " in captivity. I understood in 

 a conversation with gentlemen in Nashville, that these animals had 

 come of native Tennessee stock, and that their descendants had 

 been kept in this park until a recent date. Putnam's note applied 

 to a period anterior to the year 1859. I have been unable to get 

 any direct information from the Harding or Jackson families, now 

 living at Belle Meade, as to these facts, or whether the elk and 

 bison are still existing in their preserve. 



Order RODENTIA. 



Family LEPORID^J. 

 Genus LEPUS Linnaeus. 

 5. Lepus aquaticus (Bachm.). Aquatic Hare. 



On the borders of Reelfoot Lake, in the closest proximity to the 

 water, I found this large hare. It preferred hiding among the 

 half-submerged vegetation and piles of driftwood, and when it 

 broke cover would run with bold, high leaps from log to log for so 

 great a distance that it was difficult to find it again. 



The following, relating to its habits in the vicinity of Browns- 

 ville, is from the pen of Mr. Miles: "Though resembling the 

 Cotton Tail closely in color and in diet, as well as in movements, 

 there the similarity of the Swamp Rabbit, as we term him, ends. 

 Never seen on the hills and seldom in the open, he is at home in 

 the canebrakes and deep woods, far from the homes of man. The 

 more desolate the situation, the more certain he is to be found, ever 

 wide awake and ready to test his speed and cunning with that of 

 any enemy ; and he has no friends. In the overflow [spring freshets] 

 I have seen him for hours seated on a floating log, as much at 

 home as a raccoon, and when disturbed take the water for a 300 

 yard swim as readily as any land animal that I know. When hotly 

 pursued, he always takes the water, and, once there, I have never 

 seen him caught. Twice only, while hunting at night, have I seen 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



him take a hollow tree, seeming generally not to resort to such a 

 refuge in the day. The young are born with eyes closed and with- 

 out hair, and fewer in number than the cottontail. 5 I have only 

 seen one nest, that in an old root. The Swamp Rabbit has fully 

 held his own in numbers in my day, though nothing more, and I 

 see about one specimen a day when hunting in our deepest bottoms. 

 The largest specimen I ever weighed was thirteen pounds, and 

 would say thirteen inches at the shoulders. Negroes think him 

 good eating, and if properly prepared, I agree with them." 



In another letter Mr. Miles again refers to this hare, as follows: 

 " As to the aquatic habits of the Swamp Rabbit, they are very pro- 

 nounced and he will take to water as readily as the raccoon. I 

 have seen him when not pursued swim a slough 30 yards wide and 

 shake himself when on the other side, hopping off as though it was 

 all right * * * * I saw one swim several hundred yards 

 down and across current when pursued by my pointer, and the dog 

 did not gain on him, but was the most exhausted of the two 

 when he gave up the chase. The rabbit makes the ' dog lick ' 

 when in the water, the rump rising and falling as in the swim- 

 ming horse." 



Specimen — Samburg, 1. 



6. Lepus sylvaticus Bachm. Wood Hare. 



In western Tennessee, especially in the woods and thicket? skirting 

 the cane-bottoms near the Mississippi, this hare has almost become 

 a nuisance on account of its abundance. Near Brownsville, Mr. 

 Miles declares the " Cotton-tail is nearly a pest with us, and since 20 

 years has increased fully 50 per cent, in my opinion, and this in 

 spite of the fact that its young are destroyed by nearly everybody 

 and thing. * * * During February last [1895] I could num- 

 ber 100 parties who killed in a single day's hunt 100 each, and 

 the same ratio was kept up during the month ; this too at the 

 time of breeding, but there are apparently as many as ever and in 

 the corporation of Brownsville, they eat up a large per cent of 

 the gardens." 



At Reelfoot Lake I found them very abundant, their range in the 

 lowlands overlapping that of the Water Hare. In the uplands I 

 rarely met with them. None were obtained in Middle Tennessee or 



5 Mr. Miles contrasts this condition of the young at birth with that of 

 Lepus sylvaticus, which he states are hrought forth "with eyes open ami fully 

 haired." 






1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



East Tennessee. Those from West Tennessee apparently resemble 

 syhaticus from Pennsylvania and Xew Jersey, but not having sum- 

 mer skins from the Eastern States, the determination is unsatisfac- 

 tory. Mr. Bangs 6 identified three winter specimens from Trenton 

 (Gibson Co. ?) Tennessee, as " perfect intermediates between syha- 

 ticus and mearnsi, both in size and color." 



Regarding the possible occurrence of L. syhaticus transitionalis 

 Bangs, in the Great Smoky Mountains, its describer writes me: 

 *■ I examined a large series last winter from Roan Mountain, and 

 they were all true syhaticus." 



Specimens — Samburg, 5 ; Raleigh, 1. 



Genus SYNAFTOMYS Baird. 

 7. Synaptomys cooperi Baird. Lemming Yule. 



Six specimens, a lately nursing female and five young, the latter 

 apparently belonging to a single litter, and the former probably 

 their parent, were trapped in a small, springy place on the Caro- 

 lina side of the summit of Roan Mountain, where a quantity of 

 their favorite tussock rush, J uncus, was growing. The adult is in- 

 distinguishable from Massachusetts and Pennsylvania specimens. 

 The young are of much interest, no record or description of im- 

 mature specimens having yet been published, to my knowledge. 

 They are about half grown, their average measurements being, 

 total length, 85 millimeters; tail vertebra?, 13; hind-foot, 18.5. 

 Above, including the sides, they present a uniform blackish gray 

 shade, which close examination detects to be obscurely mixed with 

 dull wood brown. The prevailing hue is due to the long and very 

 numerous dull black hairs, which are sparingly mingled with gray 

 ones, and the faint brown shade arises from the exposed subtermi- 

 nal bands of the shorter fur which underlies the longer and coarser 

 black hairs. The under parts are darker,but otherwise resemble those 

 of the adult specimen. In the young skull the length of the upper 

 molar series is nearly as great as in the adult skulls of twice the 

 size, five millimeters longer. The incisors on the contrary, correlate 

 in size with the relative bulk of old and young, those of the latter 

 in this case being about half the caliber of the former. The sulcus 

 of the upper incisors, which characterizes this genus so strongly in 

 adults, is a nearly obsolete depression in the young and not more 

 easily detected than in occasional specimens of Microti).* jienn syl- 

 vanieus which continue to exhibit this persistent index of their 



6 Proc Bos. Soc. N.Hist., 1895, p. 409. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ancestry. On cutting away the premaxillary the exposed base of 

 the incisor shows a constant increase in the development of the 

 lateral sulcus, so that at its root the tooth may be said to be almost 

 as characteristically grooved as in the adult. In the half-grown 

 skull the cutting edges of the upper incisors are oblique, forming 

 an acute angle in each at their median line ; in the adult skull this 

 obliquity is reversed, the outer sides of the teeth being longer than 

 the inner. In the young, the alveolar breadth of the incisor ex- 

 ceeds its terminal breadth ; in the old these dimensions are equal. 

 The incisive foramina are wider and shorter, and the upper molar 

 series more widely separated by the bony palate and maxillaries, 

 than in old adults. The crown structure of the molars in young 

 and old is identical, their only difference being due to the amount 

 of wear, shown most conspicuously in the posterior upper molar, 

 which has not protruded sufficiently to bring its posterior loop down 

 to the triturating plane, and in consequence, that section retains its 

 original cuspidate form. 



All of the five young have white-tipped hind feet almost precisely 

 like the young Evotomys taken in the same locality. This peculiar- 

 ity, is not confined to the young of these genera. An examination of 

 my series from the United States and Canada shows that several 

 young and some of the old among four species have the hind feet 

 so marked. In an adult Evotomys gapperi from Pennsylvania, both 

 fore and hind feet are nearly pure white and in E. <j. saturatus from 

 Mt. Baker, B. C, all four feet, and the throat and the breast are 

 similarly pied. Such cases are rare in my very large series of M. 

 pennxi/lvanicus.. It is an interesting question why Synaptomys and 

 Evotomys should show this tendency to pedal albinism, while in 

 Peromyseus and Zapus the same kind of variation seems confined 

 to the tail. Indeed, in some of these instances this feature has 

 almost assumed the dignity of a diagnostic if not specific charac- 

 ter, and it may even be conjectured whether these white-footed 

 voles do not foreshadow color patterns, which are destined to figure 

 in the days to come. On the other hand it may indicate their past 

 connection with some harlequin ancestry, such as has given us 

 the variegated pelage of the Arctic Lemmings. 



Specimens — Roan Mt., Mitchell Co., X. C. 1 ad. ; 5juv. 



Genus MICROTUS .Shrank. 

 8. Microtus pennsylvanicus (Old). Wilson's Meadow Vole. 



Tin 1 most careful search and systematic trapping tailed to reveal 

 the presence of tin's common eastern and northern quadruped in any 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



part of Tennessee west of the Great Smoky Mountains. In this re- 

 spect its distribution, or rather its absence, corresponded exactly 

 with that of the Song Sparrow, Melospiza fasciata. Wherever I 

 found the supposed runways of this vole, the traps only yielded 

 the Mole Shrew, Blarina brevicauda and the Pine Vole, M. pine- 

 torum and even these in such small numbers that the residents of 

 the State may well congratulate themselves on their immunity from 

 these little pests. 



On the summit of Roan Mountain two specimens of the Meadow 

 Vole were secured in a little " bulrush " swamp below Cloudland 

 hotel, about 100 yards from the Tennessee line in Mitchell County, 

 N. Carolina. No specimens were taken in Tennessee, but I feel 

 justified in including it here, not only on this nearby record, but be- 

 cause similar runways to those in which the Mitchell County spec- 

 imens were taken were observed in swampy ground near the sum- 

 mit of the mountain in Carter County, Tennessee, during my ascent 

 thither from the Doe River ravine. 



There is not the slightest tendency toward any variation in the 

 Roan Mountain specimens from those found near Philadelphia at 

 the same season, and this is good proof that the distribution of 

 this vole is continuous along the ridge of the southern Alleghenies 

 and much farther south than in the adjoining lowlands. 



Specimens — Roan Mountain, Mitchell Co., N. Carolina (6,300 ft.), 

 2 is. 



9. Miorotus pinetorum (LeC). Pine-woods Vole. 



This seems to be the only representative of the Microtinse in 

 Western and Middle Tennessee. It may be said to be numerous in 

 the woods and their vicinity, forming tunnels in edges of open grass 

 fields, much after the manner of Wilson's Vole. None were taken 

 east of the valley of East Tennessee. The seventeen specimens 

 from Tennessee show no characters which are not to be found in 

 specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Connecticut. Those 

 from Samburg, however, are more uniformly dark beneath, the sil- 

 very sheen seen in eastern specimens being clouded, in Reelfoot 

 Lake examples, by muddy brown over the entire underparts. The 

 same may be said of those from Raleigh and Bellevue, while those 

 from East Tennessee are similar to Pennsylvania skins. It may 

 be remarked that while the Pine Vole shows great constancy in 

 its characters over a large region included between and almost 

 overlapping the Austroriparian and Alleghenian faunje, the most 

 13 




18(3 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



southern and most northern extremes in the east show color differ- 

 ences which may eventually be recognized as subspecific. Exam- 

 ples of this variation may be found in comparing a series from the 

 mountains of northern New Jersey with samples from the pine bar- 

 rens of the southern part of that State. The former are blackish- 

 brown above and plumbeous gray beneath, the latter rusty brown 

 with silvery gray sides and underparts. 



Specimens — Samburg, 8 ; Kaleigh, 6 ; Bellevue, 2 ; Harriman, 2. 



Genus EVOTOMYS Coues. 



10. Evotomys Caroline nsis Merriam. Carolina Wood Vole. 



My only specimens of this large and interesting woodland mouse, 

 which Dr. Merriam discovered on Roan Mountain in 1877, are not 

 much more than half-grown, and all of them were trapped in the 

 border of the fir belt just below Cloudland Hotel, in Mitchell 

 County, N. Carolina, two of the specimens being taken within forty 

 yards of the Tennessee strip. Though their runways were abund- 

 ant there, a strange fate prevented my securing any specimens on 

 Tennessee soil. In my four young specimens the color is much 

 darker than in gapperi of the same age, corresponding very closely 

 to the shade characterizing E. g. suturahis of the northwest. In the 

 oldest specimen the hoary appearance of the belly is untinged with 

 fulvous ; the others are plumbeous, with a scant mixture of gray and 

 ochre. In all the specimens the claws of the three middle hind 

 toes are each covered with a sheath or brush of white, bristly hairs, 

 which exceed the claws in length and project beyond them. 



Contrary to my expectations, the Wood Vole of Roan Mountain 

 was not found in wet places but seemed to prefer rather open run- 

 ways among the fallen logs, moss and ferns on the borders of the 

 forest, and one specimen was taken under the shelter of a pigpen, 

 just below the hotel. Such situations were preferred to the depths 

 of the forest, owing to the variety of edible grasses and weeds only 

 found in clearings. Dr. Merriam writes me that he has specimens 

 taken on the Tennessee side of Roan Mountain. 



Specimens— Roan Mt., Mitchell Co., N. I .. 3. 



Genus FIBER Cuvier. 



11. Fiber zibethicus (LA Muskrat. 



Owing to high water in the rivers during my visit I was unable 

 to reach the mussel shoals and collect specimens of the Unionidse of 

 many streams in Tennessee. This difficulty was largely remedied 




1896 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



by the industry of the niuskrats inhabiting every large stream 

 in my course and whose diet seemed to consist very largely of these 

 mollusks, which they would collect and deposit on logs by the mar- 

 gin of the water. When the mussel dies, the valves of the shells re- 

 lax and the muskrat devours the contents, dropping the shells into 

 the water. In some places I found many bushels of these shells 

 representing ten or fifteen species and three genera in one dumping 

 place, and was able to get a much better represention of this part of 

 the mollusk fauna in an hour than would have been possible in a 

 day's dredging or wading. In a fish-dam on the Holston River, 

 near its junction with the French Broad, I found these shells wedged 

 among the stones by the rats, and among them some newly-devoured 

 specimens of the beautiful freshwater shell Io spinosa. The spe- 

 cies most preferred in the Tennessee River was a small clam-like, 

 thick-shelled and corrugated Unio, and it was noticeable that the 

 the same species was by far the most numerous in the shell-heaps of 

 the Cherokees on the river banks. It was rare to find even the 

 most fragile species in these rat-larders broken as if opened forcibly 

 by the rats, a condition the reverse of those obtained in similar de- 

 posits east of the Alleghenies. 



Genus PEROMYSCTJS Gloger. 

 12. Peromyscus leucopus (Raf.). Deer Mouse. 



Compared with specimens from eastern Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey there appears to be nothing to distinguish the upland Deer 

 Mice of West and Middle Tennessee from typical leucopus. No 

 specimens of this genus were taken in the lowlands of East Tennes- 

 see, but from our knowledge of the fauna of that region it is quite 

 certain that the same species is the prevailing form there, associ- 

 ated in certain localities with the Golden Mouse, P. aureolus. I 

 found this species numerous at Raleigh. A few were taken at 

 Samburg, where they seemed to frequent the intermediate grounds 

 between the overflowed bottoms and the bluff, and at this point their 

 habitat overlapped somewhat that of the large Cane Mouse, P. gos- 

 sypinus rnississippiensis, described below. 



Two specimens taken at the entrance of Mammoth Cave, Ken- 

 tucky, are identical with those from West Tennessee. 



Specimens— Samburg 6 ; Raleigh, 8 ; Bellevue, 1. 

 13. Peromyscus leucopus nubiterrae. Cloudland Deer Mouse. 



Subsp. nov. Type, ad. 3 , No. 3,664, Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci., 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Phila. Col. by S. N. Rhoads on summit of Roan Mountain (6,370 

 ft.), Mitchell Co., N. Carolina, June 19, 1895. 



Description. — Size smaller than P. leucopus, with much longer 

 tail and darker coloration. 



Colors, above, blackish-brown or cinnamon with a broad, strongly- 

 defined, black, vertebral stripe from middle crown to base of tail. 

 Sides of nose and a wide space around eyes, sooty. Ears dusky. 

 Hair of underparts sooty at base, scarce concealed on parts of legs, 

 throat and belly by the pure white tips. Tail sooty-brown above, 

 white beneath, quite thickly clothed with long hairs which lengthen 

 into a pronounced pencil at tip. Skull smaller than in leucopus, 

 otherwise very similar. 



Measurements (of type in millimeters). — Total length, 170 ; tail 

 vertebra, 87 ; hind foot, 20.5. Skull : total length, 23.8 ; basilar, 

 length, 18 ; zygomatic expansion, 13 ; iuterorbital constriction, 4; 

 length of nasals, 9.6 : length of mandible, 12.3 ; breadth of mandi- 

 ble, 6. Average measurements of four adults from the same local- 

 ity : total length, 167 ; tail vertebrae, 86 ; hind foot, 21.5. 



The Cloudland Deer Mouse seems to be exclusively a dweller of 

 the balsam or spruce belt which crowns the summit of Roan Moun- 

 tain, and is undoubtedly found on all the summits of the southern 

 Alleghenies, which rise above an altitude of 5,000 feet. That it in- 

 tergrades with leucopus of the lowlands, a total lack of specimens 

 from intermediate localities prevents me from determining. 



In a superficial comparison of nubiterroB with typical leucopus, 

 the smaller size, sooty color and very long tail immediately suggest 

 a specific difference, but the cranial features of the two do not sup- 

 port such a conclusion. In all respects, except coloration and size, 

 the Roan Mountain animal is an interesting counterpart of the P - 

 omyscus leucopus canadensis, so fully described by Mr. G.S. Miller, Jr. 1 

 The differentiation of these two forms from leucopus has been on 

 very similar lines, owing to the similarity of the climatic conditions 

 affecting them. Their dissimilarity, on the other hand, is exactly 

 correlated with the difference in the humidity and mean temperature 

 of the balsam forests of Canada and those of the Great Smoky 

 Mountains. 



Specimens— Roan Mountain (5,500 to 6,300 ft.), Mitchell Co., X. 

 Carolina, 6 ; Carter Co., Tenn., 2. 



7 Proc Biol. Soc, Wash., Vol. VIII, 1893, pp. 55-70. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



14. Peromyscus gossypinus mississippiensis. Cane Mouse. 



Subsp. nov. Type, ad. $ ; No. 3,729, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. 

 Col. by S. X. Rhoads at Samburg, Obion Co., Tennessee, May 4, 

 1895. 



Description — Larger tban gossypinus, with much longer hind feet, 

 relatively longer tail, lighter, grayish-fulvous coloration and lack- 

 ing the dark orbital ring. 



Color above, yellowish-brown, more fulvous along sides, darker 

 along back and mixed with blackish. 



Lower parts and feet, white, shaded by the plumbeous exposed 

 bases of hairs on chest, belly and thighs. 



Measurements (of type in millimeters). — Total length, 182 ; tail 

 vertebrae, 77 ; hind foot, 24.5 ; ear (from crown, dry skin), 12. 

 Skull : total length, 29 ; basilar length, 21.8 ; zygomatic expansion, 

 14.7; interorbital constriction, 4.5 ; length of nasals, 11.2; length 

 f mandible, 15.2; greatest width of mandible, 7. Average meas- 

 urements of five adults from same locality : total length, 182 ; tail 

 vertebra?, 80.6 ; hind foot, 24 ; average total length of five skulls, 

 28 ; average zygomatic breadth of same, 14.5. 



So far as I have made its acquaintance in Tennessee, the Cane 

 Mouse is solely a denizen of the " bottom lands " of the Mississippi. 

 At Samburg it confined its wanderings very closely to the immedi- 

 ate vicinity of Reelfoot Lake, and was abundant in the dense forest 

 jungle that bordered its margin, seeming to prefer the lowest and 

 "wettest parts of the overflowed land~, from which, at that time of 

 the year (May), the waters of the lake had receded. It is quite dis- 

 tinct from the common upland Deer Mouse of the same region, and 

 the upper and lower borders of their habitats overlap sufficiently to 

 make it possible to capture both species in the same trap. 



A comparison of the Samburg mice with leucopus of the same 

 locality having shown their differences, as above stated, to be spe- 

 cific, the question at once arises as to their relations to other south- 

 ern Peromyscus of the Eastern States. I can find nothing, in exam- 

 ining the series before me, to separate these Cane Mice specifically 

 from gossypinus of Florida and Louisiana, and of which I am so 

 fortunate as to have a large collection, those from Louisiana being 

 generously loaned me by Mr. Outram Bangs. The Louisiana spec- 

 imens are of interest as showing the extension of gossypinus along 

 the Gulf Coast across the Mississippi River. A comparison of some 

 of these from near Xew Orleans with sj^ecimens from the west coast 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



of Florida shows a great similarity, the former averaging darker 

 and smaller but the variation is perhaps too slight to warrant recog- 

 nition. On the other hand, the Tennessee form represents the max- 

 imum development of gossypinus, combined with a light coloration 

 which together render it easily distinguishable as a subspecies. 



The relation of eastern gossypinus to leucopus has been a question 

 frequently discussed by marnmalogists, but the lack of good material 

 from regions intermediate between N. Carolina and Florida has 

 prevented any final determination. I had hoped to obtain the de- 

 sired series from the regions in question in order to intelligently dis- 

 cuss the matter now brought forward in West Tennessee, but a cor- 

 respondence with our more prominent collectors of eastern mam- 

 mals, including Messrs. Miller, Bangs and Brimley, shows that we 

 are but little better off in this regard than thirty years ago, unless 

 collections of the U. S. Dep. of Agriculture contaiu such series. I 

 am, therefore, only able to predict, on the basis of the relationships 

 of gossypinus and leucopus of the lower Mississippi Valley, that they 

 will prove to be as distinct species in the east as in the west. In 

 this connection the cognatus of Leconte again intrudes itself. Le- 

 conte states Georgia and South Carolina to be the type localities of 

 this species. Dr. Coues declares 8 that " three dried specimens, 

 labelled ' cognatus ' in what we presume to be Major Leconte's own 

 handwriting, as it is the same as that upon his other types now in 

 our possession," should be considered the types of cognatus. One 

 of these, from Illinois, Dr. Coues says is " H. michiganensis pure 

 and simple ! " and adds, " The other two, Xos. 4,708, 4,709 are not 

 marked for locality but probably came from Ohio, "Wisconsin or 

 Michigan, and are really his types ! " It is very difficult to reconcile 

 this statement with Leconte's assertion that cognatus is a native of 

 Georgia, and if these two specimens really are original types of 

 cognatus, it is far more reasonable to assign them to Georgia or 

 South Carolina. On this basis. Dr. Coues' diagnosis of" Xos. 4.708, 

 4,709," viz., that " They are exactly the size of ordinary leucopus, 

 the tail a little shorter, relatively, than the average of leucopus, but 

 not shorter than is often found in leucopus, and they are colored 

 exactly as in gossypinus, the upper parts being very dark, the under 

 impure white, and the tail indistinctly bicolor," strongly points to 

 the conclusion which Prof. Baird and Dr. J. A. Allen have ad- 

 vanced, that cognatus is a synonym of gossypinus, based. I might 



8 Mon. N. A. Kodentia, pp. 77, 78. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



add, on a somewhat immature specimen of that species from near 

 the same type locality. It is very probable that Leconte's positive 

 statement, in his introductory paragraph to the description of 

 cognatus, that he had never, during a long period of residence in 

 Georgia, seen leueopus there, will be confirmed by future inve.-ti- 

 gators. 



Another species whose status is affected by the foregoing remarks 

 is Peromyscus megacephahis of northern Alabama. Not having se- 

 cured a series from that region I am unable to throw any light on 

 the question of the affinity of this species to gossypinus, to which it 

 is most closely related, and indeed it may be found to be only a case 

 of aberrant and extraordinary individual variation from typical 

 gossypinus, or may represent a mountain or foot-hill race of that 

 species. In either case the validity of megacephalus nowise affects 

 the status of mississippiensis, which represents the modifications of 

 an environment quite the reverse of that obtaining in northeastern 

 Alabama. 



Specimens — Samburg, 16 ; Raleigh, 1. 



15. Peromyscus aureolas (Aud. & Bach.). Golden Mouse. 



Prof. Baird, in his great work on the North American Mam- 

 malia (p. 468), tabulates two specimens of this mouse which were 

 taken near Knoxville, Tennessee, by Prof. J. B. Mitchell and pre- 

 sented to the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. Coues, in the Mono- 

 graph of North American Rodentia, specially refers to one of these 

 specimens as typical of the peculiar coloration of aureolus, so we 

 may reasonably accept the identification and the record as the first 

 for the State. Dr. C. H. Merriam writes me that his assistant, Mr. 

 H. C. Oberholser obtained one of these mice at Roan Mountain 

 Station. In view of these Tennessee records, which would indicate 

 the presence of the Golden Mouse over the greater part of the State, 

 it seems strange that I did not meet with it, although the Deer 

 Mouse was taken in considerable numbers. The elevation of Roan 

 Mountain Station is about 2,500 feet. Messrs. H. H. and C. S. 

 Brimley inform me that they have received numbers of this mouse 

 taken by J. S. Cairns near Weaverville, N. Carolina, about 25 miles 

 east of the Tennessee line, at 2,300 ft. elevation, so it is reasonable 

 to expect them in any of the passes of the Great Smoky Mountains 

 below that altitude. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Genus NEOTOMA Say & Orel. 



16. Neotoma magister Baird. Allegheny Cave Rat. 



This large mountain-dwelling rat is found in the cliffs of Roan 

 Mountain and other peaks of the Southern Alleghenies. I have no 

 records of it from the Tennessee section of the mountain but the 

 natives of Carter County do not state that it shows a decided par- 

 tiality to North Carolina. 



A careful examination of the cave deposits which came into my 

 hands from Middle Tennessee failed to show any remains of this 

 genus. 



I have examined specimens of the rat which frequents Mammoth 

 Cave, Kentucky, and am unable to detect any difference between 

 them and those taken in Clinton and Cumberland Counties, Penn- 

 sylvania. The skull of an old specimen forwarded to me alive from 

 Mammoth Cave is exactly like the largest adult skulls of fossilized 

 specimens from the limestone caves of eastern Pennsylvania. 



After particular inquiry among the hunters of southwestern Ten- 

 nessee as to the existence of a Wood Rat in those parts I am in- 

 clined to think that it has been noted there, but the confusion of 

 A '/ otoma floridana with the Old World rats of these parts makes the 

 evidence of questionable value. 



Genus MUS Linnaeus. 



17. Mus decumanus Pallas. Norway Rat. 



18. Mus rattus L. Black Rat. 



Mr. Miles mentions the former occurrence of the Black Rat in 

 West Tennessee but he has not seen it for twenty years. The Nor- 

 way Rat, however, has not been exterminated so successfully, as the 

 open streets of the larger cities of Tennessee can frequently testify. 



19. Mus musculus L. House Mouse. 



Found both wild and semi-domesticated. 

 Specimens — Raleigh, 1 ; Roan Mountain, 1. 



Family CASTORID^l. 



Genus CASTOR Linnseus. 



20. Castor fiber canadensis (Kuhl). American Beaver. 



In company with a trapper, I visited a beaver house in Reelfoot 

 Lake. This was situated in a cypress swamp called the " Turkey- 

 roost," about three miles west of Samburg. It was not tenanted, 

 but there were signs that a heaver had been at work there within a 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



few days. Other lodges were known to my guide, and Mr. H. B. 

 Young of Samburg, who makes it his business to take some of these 

 animals in the lake every winter, declared there were twenty of 

 them left, and contracted with me to furnish the gardens of the Zoo- 

 logical Society of Philadelphia with some of their young ones the 

 coming winter. 



Mr. Miles says, "the beaver, in limited numbers, has been here 

 always and is more numerous now than 40 years ago, because less 

 hunted. Within 9 miles of Brownsville, I know personally of 

 a ' bouse ' now inhabited, and it has been so for 25 years. I 

 know the locality of two others by report." 



It is not likely that any beavers now exist in the eastern half of 

 the State, though their former distribution over the whole of Ten- 

 nessee is well known, and attested by the frequency of the name for 

 smaller streams and meadows throughout the state. 



Family SCIURID^. 

 Genus ARCTOMYS Schreber. 



21. Arotomys monax (L.). Woodchuck. Ground Hog. 



Stated by Mr. Miles to be " very rare " in Haywood Co. A bur- 

 row, apparently used by one of these animals, was located on the 

 banks of Indian Creek just above the overflow of Reelfoot Lake. 

 From the character of the signs and paths leading from this den to 

 an adjacent field, it could have belonged to no other animal. I did 

 not find the woodchuck as numerous anywhere in Tennessee as we 

 have it in eastern Pennsylvania. It is found high up among the 

 Great Smoky Mountains, but does not, so far as I could learn, in- 

 vade the fir belt, which occupies their summits down to an altitude 

 of about 5,000 feet. Dr. Merriam says 9 of them in this region that 

 they " were common in places in the Alleghenian belt, about half- 

 way up the mountains." 



Genus TAMIAS Illiger. 



22. Tamias striatus (L.). Eastern Chipmunk. 



This Ground Squirrel was very abundant on that part of Roan 

 Mountain lying between the station and the foot of the fir belt. A 

 few casually invade this belt, but never to a great distance. In the 

 lowlands of Tennessee, the chipmunk was very spai'ingly and ir- 

 regularly distributed, so far as my personal observations were made, 



9 Amer. Jour. Sci., 1888, p. 459. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



but I was frequently informed they were often seen in districts 

 where none appeared during my visit. I saw them at Johnson City, 

 Greenville and Nashville, and heard one or two while riding 

 through the woods in Obion Co., near Samburg. They are to be 

 found near the Springs at Raleigh and on the road from Raleigh to 

 Bartlett. None were seen at Chattanooga or Knoxville, nor on the 

 Cumberland plateau. Two specimens from Roan Mountain are 

 precisely like some of my skins from southern New Jersey. 



Mr. Miles speaks of them near Brownsville as being " identical 

 with the chipmunk of Virginia in color, though, I think, larger 

 and not near so plentiful. * * * * I see five or six every sum- 

 mer." The Messrs. Brimley of Raleigh, N. C, record two speci- 

 mens taken at Warner, Hickman Co., Tenn., in November and De- 

 cember, indicating that the hibernation of this animal in that lati- 

 tude is of short and irregular duration. 



Genus SCIHRUS Linnaeus. 

 23. Sciurus niger ludovicianus (Custis). Western Fox Squirrel. 



We do not find this species numerous except in the heavily tim- 

 bered bottoms of West Tennessee, more especially west of the Ten- 

 nessee River in the direct drainage of the Mississippi. 



A very interesting account of this species, as observed in Hay- 

 wood and Lauderdale Counties by my veteran friend and sports- 

 man, B. C. Miles, is too valuable to be lost, and with some emen- 

 dations, I give it here : " The Fox or Red Squirrel is the largest 

 of all the tribe and varies considerably in size in different neighbor- 

 hoods. Wherever food to his liking is found, there he is, and al- 

 wavs a glutton, putting in his whole time eating, drinking, or snooz- 

 ing on a cozy limb, in such a position that he attracts attention 

 neither of the hunter below nor of the hawk above. I am certain I 

 have seen him clean up a quart of mulberries in a half-day and not 

 move ten feet during the time, nor give utterance to a single sound. 

 Early in the morning and late in the evening he chatters much and can 

 even condescend to be a little gay in the mating season. I doubt his 

 ever migrating, as do the gray and black, though an excursion of 

 a mile from home through cultivated fields and small timber is no 

 unusual tramp for the gentleman. 



" He is a denizen of big timber always : more at home in the 

 gums and cypresses of our swamps than elsewhere, though he is not 

 infrequently found in the most unexpected places, on the hills near 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



the house, or in the garden, where he goes for fruit. Of all the 

 tribe he is the greatest eater of berries and the like, and I have even 

 known of his scratching sweet potatoes out of the ground and making 

 a dinner off one of half a pound weight. 



" When closely hunted he is very much more wary than the Gray 

 Squirrel and the way he can hug a limb and spread himself out 

 flat on the bark is truly artistic. In his movements he is the very 

 acme of animated silence, seeming at all times to fear a noise and it 

 is not an infrequent ruse of hunters, by making a great outcry, to 

 scare him from a secure hiding place. As a table game he is much 

 inferior to his gray relation, being tougher, and the very red bones 

 always give an uncanny appearance to the dish, cook it as you may. 

 * * * * As a caged pet he is dull, gets over-fat, becomes stu- 

 pid, is ill-natured, has no gloss to his hair and is a dismal fail- 

 ure. He is bravest of the tribe, often refusing to leave the ground 

 when pursued by a small dog ; has been seen to stand at bay and 

 hold off such. Rarely he mates with the Gray Squirrel, when the 

 produce is called a ' ferrydiddle.' I have killed two such in my 

 forty years of squirrel hunting. One at all familiar with the two 

 species would at once recognize its hybrid origin." 



Referring to the black phase of this squirrel, Mr. Miles says : " I 

 never saw any blacks save those like the Fox squirrel. Have 

 seen two killed in this county, but when in Memphis, in 1871— '74, 

 my uncle frequently purchased Black Squirrels in the markets. 

 We understood they came from Mississippi (never from Arkansas), 

 10 or 20 miles below Memphis, and we both thought them a dis- 

 tinct species ; no resemblance to Fox Squirrel save in size and 

 that the tip of the nose in each is gray. Have frequently observed 

 that the bones of Black Squirrel were the same color (violet) as in 

 the Gray Squirrel, while the bones of Fox Squirrel were invari- 

 ably a deep salmon or red when brought to table. * * * * I 

 never saw or heard of the black phase of Gray Squirrel save 

 through you." 



Specimen — Samburg, 1. 

 24. ? Sciurus niger cinereus (L.). Northern Fox Squirrel. 



I base the admission of this subspecies to the list, first, on evi- 

 dence from hunters of the Great Smoky Mountains that the Fox 

 Squirrel is found there, and secondly, because Dr. J. A. Allen in- 

 cludes the Southern Alleghenies in the geographical distribution of 

 this form. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



25. Sciurus carolinensis pennsylvanicus (Ord). Northern Gray Sqiurrel. 

 Typical examples of this squirrel are confined to the high moun- 

 tains of the extreme eastern part of the State. From thence west- 

 ward there will be found to be a gradual transition to the form, pe- 

 culiar to the bottom lands of the Mississippi, which is next consid- 

 ered. I saw hunter's skins of the Gray Squirrel, taken at an eleva- 

 tion of 4,000 feet on Roan Mountain. It is not common in the 

 more settled parts of Middle Tennessee. 



26. Sciurus carolinensis fuliginosus (Bachm.). Louisiana Gray Squirrel. 



Mr. Outram Bangs has revived 10 the Sooty Gray Squirrel of 

 Louisiana, described by Bachman under the name fuliginosus, as a 

 valid subspecies of carolinensis. I was able to make close examina- 

 tion of a number of live Gray Squirrels in the city park at Mem- 

 phis, where they have become domesticated and form one of the 

 chief attractions to the large number of people who frequent this 

 thoroughfare. These squirrels averaged fully up to the size of the 

 northern Gray Squirrel of Pennsylvania and were distinctly darker 

 than the eastern animal, so much so, in fact, that I attributed their 

 sooty appearance to their smoky environment in a city exclusively 

 burning bituminous coal. Memphis, however, can not be classed as 

 a 'smoky city,' and I am now satisfied that these squirrels came by 

 their colors legitimately, and represent Bachman's Louisiana spe- 

 cies, as redefined by Mr. Bangs. 



Writing of the migrations of this animal, Mr. Miles informs me: 

 " I have seen them exhausted and wet on the east bank of the Mis- 

 sissippi River, when I know the emigration eastward was taking 

 place on the west bank. About that time I was fishing on a lake 

 in Arkansas and one came by my boat headed from the west to the 

 east bank, looking very unconcerned, with tail curled over back 

 and well out of the wet. I gave pursuit, which he soon noticed, 

 and that tail was then put up on the sail principle and very much 

 increased his speed, I thought at the time, though I overtook and 

 killed him." 



27. Sciurus hudsonicus (Erxl.). Red Squirrel, " Boomer." 



Owing to the severe winter of 1894-5, the " Boomer" was very 

 scarce in its usual haunts on the summit of Roan Mountain. I 

 spent parts of three days in careful search of it and only saw one in 

 the fir belt. Another was seen and captured, during the descent of 



10 Proc. Bost. Soc N. Hist., Vol. XXVI, p. 543. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



the mountain, at an elevation of 3,500 feet. This species is not seen 

 in Tennessee below an elevation of 2,000 feet, so far as I could ascer- 

 tain, and the majority live above 4,000 feet. They are unknown on 

 the Cumberland plateau. Lack of suitable specimens prevents me 

 from making the necessary comparisons, but I am suspicious that 

 the Red Squirrels of the Balsam belt of Roan Mountain are a dark, 

 local race of hudsonicus Avhich may merit separation from the typi- 

 cal form. 



Specimen — Roan Mountain, Carter Co., 1. 



Genus SCIUROPTERUS F. Cuvier. 



28. Sciuropterus volans (L.). Southern Flying Squirrel. 



From reports of the hunters, and what we know of its distribu- 

 tion in other parts-of the United States, this elegant squirrel may be 

 said to be common all over the State of Tennessee from the summit 

 of Roan Mountain to the western " bottoms." Specimens from the 

 highest altitudes would be of interest in determining whether sub- 

 species sabrinus, the northern form, is not found there. In the low- 

 lands of Haywood County, Mr. Miles observes that in the evening 

 this species " makes a chattering sound, that sooner or later I hear 

 whenever camped in the woods and don't think I ever miss hear- 

 ing in clear weather, never in foul weather. Five years ago, in 

 the country, they took possession of my martin box and ran the 

 martins out. I got after them and routed out thirty." 



Order CARXIVORA. 



Family PROCYONID.E. 

 Genus PROCYON >torr. 



29. Procyon lotor (L.). Raccoon. 



The " Coon " is excessively abundant in the bottoms of West 

 Tennessee and Mr. Miles thinks their numbers there are increasing. 

 In other parts of the State they appear to be well represented. 



Family MUSTELID^. 

 Genus LTJTRA Linnteus. 



30. Lutra hudsonica Lacep. American Otter. 



This fisherman is often seen by hunters at Reelfoot Lake. A 

 specimen was killed at Open Lake, Lauderdale Co. this winter and 

 was seen by Mr. Miles. The otter is a rare but constant inhabitant 

 of all the larger streams in the State. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896 



Genus LUTREOLA Wagner. 



31. Lutreola vison Schreber. Mink. 



32. Lutreola vison vulgivagus (Bangs). Louisiana Mink. 



Only one specimen of mink from Tennessee has passed through 

 my hands. It is a skull of a mink taken at Open Lake in Lauder- 

 dale County, by Mr. Miles. This specimen corresponds so closely 

 to Mr. Bangs' diagnosis of vulgivagus, as contrasted with typical 

 vison, that I am induced to class it with the former, but the cranial 

 differences in vulgivagus, however, constant they may have proved, 

 do not appear to me specific. There is little doubt that the minks 

 of eastern Tennessee are typical vison. 11 



Specimen — Open Lake, Lauderdale Co., 1. 



Genus PTJTORIUS Cuvier. 



33. Putorius noveboracensis Emmons. Carolina Weasel. 



This weasel is said to be common in "West Tennessee, and, from 

 what we know of its general distribution, is nowhere rare. Regard- 

 ing the possible occurrence of the Canadian Weasel, Putorius rich- 

 ardsoni cicognani (Bonap.), in the Smoky Mountains, Mr. Outram 

 Bangs, who has been making a special study of the eastern forms, 

 writes me that Putorius noveboracensis is numerous on Roan Mount- 

 ain but that cicognani he has " never seen from any locality south 

 of the lower Hudson Valley, although it may occur in Pennsyl- 

 vania and "West Virginia." 



Genus MUSTELA Linnesus. 



34. Mustela pennanti (Erxl.). Fisher, l'ekan. 



There is little doubt that the Pekan was long ago exterminated 

 in East Tennessee, as none of the hunters with whom I conversed 

 knew of such an animal. Dr. Merriam includes it among the 

 Alleghenian species not to be found on Roan Mountain in 1887. 

 Audubon and Bachman 1 ' speak of this animal's occurrence in the 

 State as follows : " We have seen several skins procured in East 

 Tennessee and have heard of at least one individual that was 

 captured near Flat Rock in that State, latitude 35°." 



11 To these may be added J., vison lutreocephahts (Harlan) which Mr. Bangs, 

 (Proc. Bos. Soc." Nat. Hist., 1896. pp. 1-ti. ) considers separable from true 

 L. vison of the Boreal zone. The fatter Mr. Bangs thinks may range into 

 the higher Alleghenies of North Carolina. On this ba>is I retain the name 

 as above listed under No. 31. 



12 Quad. N.Amer., 1, p. 314. 






1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



The Pine Marten, Mustela americana, does not seem to have been 

 noted farther south than central Pennsylvania in the Allegheny 

 Range, no records for Tennessee or N. Carolina being extant, to my 

 knowledge. 



Genus MEPHITIS Cuvier. 



35. Mephitis mephitica elongata Bangs. Carolina Skunk. 



Reported to be rare in the Mississippi lowlands. I rarely detected 

 the signs of this animal in Tennessee, though every one seems to be 

 acquainted with the animal in all localities visited except, perhaps, 

 on the summits of highest mountains. 



Mr. Bangs has separated 13 the skunk of the East Canadian fauna 

 from the southern animal, giving the latter a new subspecific name, 

 as above. 



Family URSIDJ3. 



Genus URSUS Linnaeus. 



36. TIrsus americanus Pallas. American Black Bear. 



Bears are now very scarce, even in the wildest territory of the 

 State, but formerly this species was wonderfully plentiful in the cane- 

 brakes of West Tennessee. It is difficult to credit the straight for- 

 ward anecdotes narrated by David Crockett of his experiences with 

 this game in the bottoms of Obion County. On one occasion he 

 killed four bears in one day and 105 in less than one year. 



The hunters at Reelfoot Lake, think they are all killed off and 

 say that none have been shot for several years. Mr. Miles writes 

 that "A bear was killed in the west border of Haywood County 

 in 1865 — the last one I think — though in Lauderdale County, one 

 is occasionally killed now." 



Dr. Merriam found bears in the Great Smoky Mountains in 1887, 

 but I was told that none have been seen on Roan Mountain for 

 several years. On the Cumberland plateau they seem to have been 

 practically exterminated. 



Family CANID-&J. 

 Genus UROCYON Baird. 



37. Urocyon cinereoargenteus (Mull.). Gray Fox. 



Found all over the State but said to be supplanted by the Red 

 Fox in western portions, where it is less common than formerly. It 



13 Proc. Bost. Soc N. Hist., 1895, pp. 1-7. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



sometimes courses over the balsam belt of Roan Mountain when 

 pursued by dogs, but does not reside at so great an altitude. 



Genus VULPES Baird. 



38. Vulpes pensylvanicus (Bodd.). American Red Fox. 



Always numerous in the mountains, the Red Fox has spread with 

 the increasing population into West Tennessee, where it was un- 

 known to the early pioueers. The same conditions are true of the 

 Central Basin and of Middle Kentucky. 



Mr. Miles calls it common in his locality now, though it was intro- 

 duced or migrated thither only forty years ago. 



Genus CANIS Linnaeus. 



39. Canis lupus nubilus (Say). American Wolf. 



In 1887 Dr. Merriam found the wolf still existing in the Smoky 

 Mountains. One was seen during the winter, about the year 1883, 

 near Cloudland Hotel. A few may yet exist in the southern 

 Alleghenies, but they are exceedingly rare. 



In Middle Tennessee they seem to be extinct. Their status in the 

 lowlands of West Tennessee may be gathered from the following 

 quotations from letters sent me by Mr. Miles, the first of which was 

 the result of a publication as to the specific identity of black and gray 

 wolves made in Forest and Stream for August 31, 1895: "Since 

 the article for Forest and Stream was written Major Shaw, an old 

 hunter of this County, tells me that many years since he captured a 

 a litter of seven wolf whelps, three of which were gray and four 

 black. * * * Our present wolf is larger and very much fiercer 

 than those of my childhood, at least those specimens were which 

 came under my observation. I suppose our present big gray 

 wolf has always been here and some favorable circumstance must 

 have developed his numbers." In a more recent note Mr. Miles 

 announces the killing of two wolves by poison about the 10th of 

 December, 1895, within seven miles of Brownsville. " by a man who 

 had killed hogs and heard the wolves howling near, when he put 

 out poison with the above result." 



Summing up the case for Lauderdale County. Mr. Miles says the 

 "Large Gray" is " common " (!) ; the "Small Black" is "rare" 

 and the "Yellow Medium, verv rare." 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Family FELID^J. 

 Genus LYNX Kerr. 



40. Lynx rufus (Guld.). Wild Cat. 



This species is yet numerous in all the wilder tracts of country. 

 It is common in the swamps and bottoms of the western regions. 



41. ■? Lynx canadensis Kerr. Canada Lynx. 



With no little hesitation, I include this species in the fauna of 

 the Tennessee on the statements of Prof. E .1). Cope. 1 * He says : 

 "Like the Red Squirrel, the Canada Lynx extends to the southern 

 limits of the Allegheny ranges, occupying the highest ground, 

 though apparently not so restricted to the elevations as the first 

 named. It is distinguished, by the name catamount, from the 

 Lynx rufus which is called wild cat and is well known to the 

 hunters." No cotemporary or previous writer that I have been able 

 to consult, confirms these statements and unless Prof. Cope examined 

 specimens it is probable he was misled by the statements of hunters. 



Genus FELIS Linnaeus. 



42. Felis concolor (L.). Puma, Panther. 



The panther appears to have been exterminated in all parts of the 

 State except the most impassable brakes and " harricanes " of the 

 bottoms of Lauderdale County. This exception is made on the 

 authority of Mr. Miles, who is confident that a few yet exist in that 

 locality. 



Order INSECTIVOPvA. 



Family TALPID^l. 

 Genus SCALOPS. 



43. Scalops aquations (L.). American Mole. 



No moles were captured. Their underground labors in Tennessee 

 were in frequent evidence. It is not probable that any other form 

 of this genus is to be found in the State than the one prevailing in 

 our Middle States. 



Mr. Miles reports the mole common in Haywood County " where- 

 ever land is rich, and is troublesome in that he burrows in the rows 

 and destroys growing plants, and runs tunnels up and down hill 

 which I have seen in one season wash into gullies 18 inches deep." 

 Any one who has noted the extreme solubility of the agricultural 



11 Fauna of S. Allegh., Amer. Nat., 1871, p. 395. 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



soils of AVest Tennessee and has witnessed the complete destruction 

 of large areas for farming purposes, due to careless tillage and heavy 

 rainfall, will appreciate the significance of this remark. 



Family SORICIDiE. 

 Genus BLARINA Gray. 



44. Blarina brevicauda (Say). Northern Blarina. 



Specimens from the summit of Roan Mountain correspond closely 

 in size and color to Quebec examples. Those taken at Harriman 

 are appreciably smaller, like specimens from the vicinity of Phila- 

 delphia. Bellevue skins and skulls show an exactly intermediate 

 size and character between the northern animal and subspecies caro- 

 lineyisis. As in the east, I found this to be the most ubiquitous 

 small mammal of subterranean habits. 



Specimens — Bellevue, 1; Sawyer's Springs, 1; Harriman, 4; 

 Roan Mt., Carter Co., 2. 



45. Blarina brevicauda carolinensis (Bachman). Southern Blarina. 



The southern mole-shrew inhabits the bottom lands of West 

 Tennessee both in the open and in deep, swampy woods. Typical 

 specimens from the shores of Reelfoot Lake and Wolf River con- 

 firm Dr. Merriam's recent (1895) diagnosis of this subspecies in 

 North American Fauna, No. 10. Dr. Merriam records (1. c, p. 14) 

 a specimen from Big Sandy, on the river of same name in Benton 

 County. 



Specimens — Samburg, 4; Raleigh, 1. 



46. Blarina parva i Say). Least Blarina. 



Prof. Baird records a specimen of what he called Blarina exilipes 

 from Brownsville, Tennessee, obtained by Capt. S. Van Vliet. 

 Baird's exilipes being proved a synonym of parva, I place it as above. 

 Dr. Merriam 15 questions if Baird's record should not have been 

 Brownsville, Te*xas. No evidence to the contrary being given, 

 and the habitat of parva being in the fauna! territory occupied 

 by West Tennessee, I feel justified in accepting Baird's record as 

 it stands. I did not secure any of this species, nor can I find other 

 records of its occurrence in the State. 



Genus SOREX Linna us. 



47. Sorex personatus (Geoff. St. Hil. . Masked Shrew. 



In the deep balsam forests which crown the summit of Roan 



15 X. Amer. Fauna, No. 10, p. 7. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Mountain this tiny shrew was numerous. Its burrows were found 

 under decaying logs and large stones in moist places along the 

 bridle path leading directly from Cloudland to the Doe River 

 valley. 



Specimens — Roan Mt., Carter Co., 4. 



48. Sorex fumeus Miller. Smoky Shrew. 



Two specimens of this large Sorex were taken on Roan Mountain 

 in similar situations to those frequented by the Masked Shrew. A 

 large number of specimens of both species were taken by Dr. 

 Merriam and his assistants on the North Carolina side of the mount- 

 ain. 



To the painstaking and intelligent studies of my friend Gerrit S. 

 Miller, Jr. 16 we are indebted for the identification and naming of the 

 Smoky Shrew, as well as the simplification of a group of mammals 

 whose identity and nomenclature had become so confused as to be a 

 byword and reproach to American mammalogy. 



Specimens — Roan Mt., Carter Co., 2. 



Order CHIROPTERA. 



Family VESPERTILIONID.5J. 



Genus ATALAPHA Rafinesque. 



49. Atalapha borealis (Mull.). Red Bat. 



A few of these bats were noted in the mountains of East Tennessee. 

 None were found in the caves nor in Mammoth Cave. Specimens 

 from Tyree Springs and Knoxville are recorded in the catalogue of 

 the National Museum. 



Not having any records of the presence of the Hoary Bat, Atala- 

 pha cinerea, in the State, it may be mentioned that it is likely to 

 occur either as a migrant or resident anywhere east of the Cumber- 

 land plateau. 



Genus VESPERTILIO Linnseus. 



50. Vespertilio lucifugus (Le C). Little Brown Bat. 



I am informed by Messrs. Brimley of Raleigh, N. C, that they 

 received four specimens of this bat collected by J. T. Park at AVarner, 

 Hickman Co., Tennessee. One was taken in April, another in July, 

 the rest in September. 



As Dr. H. Allen has adopted it," this name is subspecifically ap- 



16 N. Amer. Fauna, No. 10, pp. 38 and 50. 



17 Mon. N. Amer. Bats, 1893, p. 78. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



plicable to the little brown bat which he had previously called sub- 

 ulatus in the first monograph and to which he now applies (p. 75) 

 the name gryphus of F. Cuvier. Taking for granted that his iden- 

 tification and choice of names is correct, we will have to alter their 

 order to accord with sequence of publication, V. lucifugus (1831) 

 being the type and V. lucifugus gryphus (1832) the subspecies. But 

 I fail to discover that Dr. Allen has indicated in what respect or to 

 what geographical or faunal areas the subspecies in either case shall 

 be distinguished or restricted. The doctor apparently accepts gry- 

 phus (p. 76, last par.) as " the name of the eastern species," but 

 does not say whether he means lucifugus to represent the western 

 form. It is difficult to come to any other conclusion than that he 

 did so intend it, unless the trinomial was used merely to indicate a 

 type of individual variation having no regard to faunal distribution. 

 Cuvier's type of gryphus came from New York, Leconte's type of 

 lucifugus appears to have come from Georgia. Granting with Dr. 

 Allen that these names were applied to the same species of eastern 

 bat, it is impossible to use either name for any of its geographic sub- 

 species, and hence, Leconte's having priority, Cuvier's name is 

 merely a synonym. 



Genus ADELONYCTERIS H. Allen. 



51. Adelonycteris fusca (Beauv.). Brown Bat. 



I found this bat abundant in the lowlands. None were seen on 

 the summit of Roan Mountain. Specimens from Hickman County, 

 are recorded by the Messrs. Brimley. It is found on the Cumber- 

 land plateau. 



Genus VESPERUGO Keyserling & Blasius. 



52. Vesperugo carolinensis (Geoff.). Carolina Bat. 



This is a common form in the caves of Kentucky and Tennessee 

 but is not as abundant there as Vespertilio lucifugus. Mr. Park 

 took three specimens in Hickman County. 



Specimens — Vaughan's Cave, Bellevue, 3. 



Genus NYCTICEJUS Rafinesque. 



53. Nycticejus humeralis (Raf.). Ralinesque's Rat. 



Five specimens of this animal, taken in Hickman County by Mr. 

 Park in August and September, have been identified by the Messrs. 

 Brimley. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Genus LASIONYCTERIS Peters. 



54. ?Lasionycteris noctivagans (Le C). Silvery Bat. 



On two occasions it was my opinion that I had seen the Silvery- 

 Bat in Tennessee, viz. at Sawyer's Springs and on Roan Mountain. 

 The fluttering, moth-like flight of some of these mountain bats was 

 characteristic of the peculiar movements of noctivagans, and on this 

 identification I admit it here with a query. From our knowledge 

 of the wide distribution of this species in North America there is 

 little doubt that it is to be found over the greater part of the State. 



Order PRIMATES. 



Family HOMLNTD^. 



Genus HOMO Linnaus. 



55. Homo sapiens americanus. North American Indian. 



I shall make no apology for including aboriginal Man in a faunal 

 list of the native and feral mammalia of Tennessee. The customary 

 omission of the genus Homo from such lists finds no justification in 

 nature or in science. 



For accounts of the history, distribution and habits of the native 

 Indian races of Tennessee, the reader is referred to Haywood's 

 Natural and Aboriginal History of Tennessee. For the history of 

 their extinction no references are necessary. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



March 3. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Two hundred and fifty-eight persons present. 



Messrs Morris E. Leeds and J. S. Stokes of Messrs Queen 

 & Co. gave a resume of investigations relating to Roentgen photo- 

 graphy and a demonstration of the processes employed. No 

 abstract). 



March 10. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Forty-nine persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " Summary of Xew Liberian Polydesmida?," by 0. F. Cook, was 

 presented for publication. 



"The Minerals of South Carolina," by J. G. Hartzell, Jr. 



Two Supposed New Trap Dyke* in < hester County, Pennsylvania. 

 — The following communication was read from Dr. Persifor 

 Frazer : — 



In a paper read before the Academy, Feb. 1, 1896, Mr. Theo. D. 

 Rand calls attention to two trap dykes which he thinks have thus tar 

 escaped notice. The writer is unable to ascertain by the localities 

 to which Mr. Rand refers, the beginning of the one said to he in the 

 northern half of the County, viz. : " Williams' Quarry, near Aldharn." 

 The trap is called " a peculiar porphyry * * containing the variety 

 of silica Vetsan ; " and it is said that " a rock which Mr. Goldsmith 

 has pronounced identical occurs near Barne-ton Station on the 

 Waynesburg branch of the Penna. R. R." In the working town- 

 ship map used by the writer in his field studies of the geology of 

 Chester County, is found noted a porphyritic quartzose syenite. In 

 Report of Progress, Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 

 Volume C 4, p. 248, 3d paragraph from bottom, a quartz porphyry 

 is also noted as visible in place probably about half a mile south of 

 Barneston Station. 



The second dyke which begins in Dowuin^town is probably the 

 same to which the following reference is made (same volume, p. 

 274). " At several points on the road leading south from the 

 Downington R. R. station occur fragments of trap." 



Againjust south of the northernmo-t apex of West Marlboro' town- 

 ship and within a short distance of Doe Run the existence of trap 

 is noted on the working field township map of the writer, as is also 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



the case on his working township map of Cain about two miles 

 west of Downingtown. 



It is only fair to remai-k that, in the nature of things, much must 

 be discovered as time goes on which was not observed by the last 

 field geologist. New cuts are made, obscure outcrops are made dis- 

 tinct by continued weathering, etc. ; yet it is also true that different 

 observers may give different values and interpretations to the same 

 phenomena. 



The writer added many dykes of trap to those already recognized 

 in geological maps before his WQrk began, but he refrained in a 

 great many instances from connecting together scattered locali- 

 ties where trap fragments occurred, on the assumption that these 

 represented a dyke, because he was often unable to assure himself that 

 these fragments were anywhere near the place of their origin, or 

 uncertain which of the many scattered localities should be joined. 

 In a country so much denuded as that of Chester Co., Pennsylvania, 

 and where collections of surface fragments of trap occur so frequently, 

 it is generally hazardous to indicate their relations to each other 

 without more substantial grounds than mere geographical position. 



As a matter of fact, a very large number of such indications 

 which appear on the writer's field maps were never transferred to 

 his final geological map, and in some cases not alluded to in the 

 text, because of the difficulty of ascertaining whether or not they 

 possessed real importance. 



March 17. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair- 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



March 24. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



The death of Samuel H. Gilbert, a member, March 20, was 

 announced. 



March 31. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



The death of Jean Gundlach, a correspondent, March, 1896, 

 was announced. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



A paper under the following title was presented for publication : — 



" Dr. Collett on the morphology of the cranium and the auricular 



openings in the north European species of the Family Strigidse; 



to which is added some recent opinions upon the systematic position 



of the Owls," by R. W. Shufeldt, M. D. 



On the recommendation of the Council an invitation to the 

 Academy from the University of Glasgow to participate in the 

 celebration of the fiftieth year of the Right Honorable Lord 

 Kelvin's tenure of office of the Chair of Natural Philosophy therein 

 was accepted and General Isaac Jones Wistar was appointed 

 to represent the Academy on the occasion. 



On a Collection of Barnacles. — Mr. H. A. Pilsbry spoke of a collec- 

 tion of barnacles from the bottom of the iron ship " Puritan " of Glas- 

 gow, which had been dry docked in Cramp's shipyard after a voyage 

 from San Francisco to Hong Kong, and to Philadelphia via Java and 

 India. The forms represented were Balanus tintinnabulum L., B. 

 tintinnabulum zebra Darwin, B. tintinnabulum spinosus 6m., Tetra- 

 e/ita porosa patella ris Darwin, Lepas anatifera L. and L. Hillii Leach. 

 The forms ranked as varieties of B. tintinnabulum retain their in- 

 dividuality perfectly, although growing side by side under appar- 

 ently identical external conditions, so that their differential charac- 

 teristics can scarcely be attributed to unlike environmental factors. 

 The variety of Tetraclita porosa seems to be a rare form, originally 

 described by Darwin from three examples taken off a ship's bottom 

 in Boston by Dr. A. A. Gould. It is very unlike the ordinary form 

 of the species. Specimens of Ostnea rivularis Gld. are attached to some 

 of the barnacles. As this is a species of east Asian seas, it is very 

 probable that the load of barnacles was obtained in China ; although 

 the Balanidie themselves have been so widely diffused by commerce 

 that alone they afford but little evidence of their original ]><itria. 

 The specimens were procured and presented to the Academy by 

 Master Lester Bernstein. 



Pugnus parvus. — Mr. Pilsbry also spoke of a remarkable shell 

 representing a new genus of Tectibranchiate mollusks, Pugnus par- 

 vus. Hedley, of which a specimen from Middle Harbor, Dear Sydney, 

 N. S. \\\, Australia, was exhibited. The shell is involute, like that 

 of Bulla, Haminea, Oylichna and many other genera of Cephalas- 

 pidea; but it differs from all of these in the remarkable features of 

 a thickened outer lip and thrice-folded columella. These characters 

 caused Mr. Hedley, its describer, to consider Pugnus a " telescoped" 

 Ringicula. All other Ringiculidse, both fossil and recent, have the 

 spire developed ; so that Pugnus stauds unique in that family in its 

 depressed and concealed spire. The generic name is an allusion to 

 the resemblance of the shell t<> a clenched hand. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



The following were elected members : — 



E. G. Conklin, Ph. D., Louis S. Amonson, Jacob Reese, A. 

 Donaldson Smith, M. D., Charles L. Phillips, Walter P. Stokes and 

 Mary T. S. Schaeffer. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



THE CRYSTALLIZATION OF MOLYBDENITE. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN. 



Although molybdenite, Mo S 2 , has been known to mineralogists 

 since crystallography was first studied, its crystalline form has never 

 been satisfactorily determined. It has been provisionally assigned 

 to the hexagonal and monoclinic systems by different authorities, 

 the general opinion beingjthat it is hexagonal. The crystals that 



have thus far been examined can be ex- 

 plained on a hexagonal basis, but they 

 are not sufficiently lustrous to admit of 

 very exact measurement, and the softness 

 of the substance also militates against the 

 exact determination of its angles. The 

 locality at Frankford, Philadelphia, has 

 long been known to mineralogists as 

 affording well crystallized molybdenite, and I have for some years 

 been collecting material from there with a view of making a crystal- 

 lographic study of the mineral. Having in hand some crystals 

 which are sufficiently lustrous for measurement on the reflecting 

 goniometer I have examined them and obtained some positive 

 results. 



The crystals are hexagonal in habit, consisting of six sided prisms 

 and barrel shaped crystals, the best of which are not more than 

 6 mm. in diameter. They strongly recall some mica crystals and 

 seem often to show a twinning with the basal pinacoid as the composi- 

 tion face. A number of crystals wore examined, the one giving the 

 best results being a nearly perfect hexagonal plate of some 5 mm. 

 diameter, which represents a broken crystal, only one termination 

 being preserved. Nearly all of the faces gave fair images but the 

 basal pinacoid was uneven, due to slight crumpling, and gave several 

 images. By observations on a number of crystals these angles could 

 be checked, however. The pyramid as a termination was not ob- 

 served, all crystals examined showing the basal termination. The 

 following crystallographic constants were observed : 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



Molybdenite. Hexagonal, axis c=1.908; 0001 A 1011=65° 35' 

 Forms observed : e (0001, oP), o (1011, P, 0), p (2021, 2P, 2), 

 q (3031, SP, 8), m (1010, ooP, 7). 



Angles : Observed. Calculated. 



e P = 77° 15' 77° 13' 



(77° 17') 

 (77° 7') 

 ep 81° 31' 81° 23' 



m??i= 60° 2' 60° 



Besides tbese, the angle e wi was observed as 89° 48' and several 

 other angles near 90° on different crystals, but in general the images 

 from m in this zone were imperfect. The angle c o=65° 35' was 

 obtained in the same crystal in adjacent zones, it was observed on 

 several crystals. Oscillatory combination and probably vicinal 

 planes render the measurements somewhat irregular but the above 

 shows that the crystals may be explained on a hexagonal basis. 

 The angle commonly observed is c p=ll° 13' and has been reported 

 as 75°. This seems to show that the pyramid 2P, (2021) is more 

 common than the others. Many crystals only show two pyramids 

 and the basal pinacoid, in others the prism is more prominent. 

 While it is still possible that better crystals may show the mineral 

 to be monoclinic, the above results are of sufficient value to place 

 on record. It may be added that etching figures on the basal 

 cleavage seem to indicate a hexagonal, perhaps rhombohedral 

 crystallization. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



THE COLORING MATTER OF THE ARIL OF CELASTRUS SCANDENS. 

 BY IDA A. KELLER. 



The presence of different pigments manufactured by the vege- 

 table organism has forced the plant world upon the attention of the 

 human race from time immemorial. If we submit the colored 

 parts to microscopical examination we are usually confronted by one 

 of two distinct cases. 



Firstly, we may find that the pigment, instead of pervading the 

 entire cell, is found only in certain variously shaped bodies which 

 are more or less regularly scattered through the cell contents. The 

 best known illustration of this kind is to be found in ordinary 

 leaves, the green color being confined to the chlorophyll granule. 

 Secondly, if we examine other parts of plants we may find that the 

 coloring matter is distributed uniformly throughout the cell sap. 

 The blue flower of the Grape Hyacinth may serve as one of the 

 many illustrations of the latter case. Wherever fixed and definite 

 portions of protoplasm subserve a special function within the plant 

 cell, these may be considered as parts of a unit and they may be 

 termed organs of the cell. In addition, then, to the nucleus we may 

 find various other organs as, for example, the colored bodies just 

 referred to. A distinction must be made between such differentiated 

 portions of the protoplasm and the products which are the result of 

 their activity, between the colorless protoplasmic matrix and the 

 colored product which makes it conspicuous. If we observe e. g., a 

 living cell of a leaf of Elodea Canadensis we find as organs of the 

 protoplasmic contents the nucleus and the chlorophyll granules ; as 

 a product of the latter, chlorophyll and finally starch as a result of 

 the action of the chlorophyll in response to satisfactory external con- 

 ditions. Such conditions are a certain amount of heat, light, moisture 

 and fche absence of any injurious factors which might impede the 

 various operations manifested in life activity. 



In dealing with the products of this activity we come to a problem 

 of great complexity. It is true that certain phenomena as 

 witnessed in the vegetable cell can be explained by known prin- 

 ciples of physics and chemistry, and that many substances for which 

 mankind was formerly dependent on the vegetable organism are now 

 manufactured in the chemical laboratory. I need onlv recall the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



synthetic preparation of alizarin, alcohol, indigo, oxalic, citric, tar- 

 taric and salicylic acids, vanillin and finally sugars, to call to mind 

 a host of further illustrations. On the other hand it must be admit- 

 ted that this victory, great as it is, has sometimes been overrated 

 and has tended to make the scientist overbearing as shown bv his 

 attempts to resolve the phenomena of life into a simple operation of 

 chemical and physical forces, without taking duly into consideration 

 the highly organized structure of the protoplasmic mass, whose har- 

 monious operation with a set of external conditions is manifested by 

 what we call life. It is because of the exceedingly intricate mechan- 

 ism of the protoplasmic structure, of whose operations we know very 

 little, that our knowledge of the products of its activity is still 

 extremely incomplete. Only in such cases, when we can obtain pro- 

 ducts capable of crystallizing, can we with any certainty state that 

 we have to deal with chemical individuals whose formulas mav be 

 ascertained. If amorphous we cannot be sure but that we have 

 instead of one, a mixture of substances more or less closely allied. 



Before going further in the discussion of these plant products a 

 few more words should be said in regard to the organs which bear 

 the colors. The protoplasmic corpuscles have been appropriate! v 

 designated chromatophores, which name is now generally accepted. 

 It has been observed that as a rule, yellow, orange and brown 

 (sometimes blue) coloring matters are deposited in such chromato- 

 phores, while white, violet, blue aud red (sometimes yellow) are 

 usually caused by a solution of the pigment in the cell sap. It has 

 been found desirable to make a distinction between the kinds of 

 chromatophores. They are for convenience classified as follows : 

 chloroplasts, chrornoplasts and leucoplasts, the latter class, which 

 are the colorless color bearers, being one of the contradictions in 

 which the systems of human classification abound. The bond of 

 sympathy is, however, their common origin, the fact that one may 

 be converted into the other according to the conditions, and each 

 one can originate only as a result of the division of pre-existing 

 chromatophores. 



Chloroplasts, as their name indicates, are the green bodies which 

 impart the green color characteristic of leaves and stems. The 

 pigment in this case can be readily extracted by means of such 

 solvents as alcohol, ether and chloroform, while the matrix remains 

 behind as a definitely shaped, colorless mass of protoplasm. The 

 pigment itself may under the influence of various factors, external 

 or internal, undergo modifications into chemically different sub- 

 stances, such as etiolin. 




214 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



Ckromoplasts include all colored chromatophores, not green. It 

 may be seen from this that the distinction is quite an arbitrary one, 

 Chromoplasts may originate from leucoplasts or chloroplasts. This 

 latter case can be easily observed in the ripening of many fruits, 

 as they change from green to red, for example, apples or the berries 

 of the potato plant. 



As indicated by the variety of colors found in plants we have to 

 deal with a number of chemically different substances. The litera- 

 ture existing on these pigments is not very satisfactory. Although 

 the metamorphosis of the chloroplasts into the chromoplasts may be 

 readily observed the new substances resulting from this metamor- 

 phosis are not well known. This past summer I became somewhat 

 interested in the red color of fruits and collecting among others tkose 

 of Hex vertieillata, I found tkat tkey turn brown in 50 per cent 

 alcohol, those of Gaultheria procumbent turn gray ; those of Magno- 

 lia glaum, dark brown ; those of IAndera Benzoin, almost black ; 

 those of Berberis Thunbergii, light brown; those of Crataegus cocci- 

 nea, dark brown. It is a matter of general observation that in must 

 cases when immersed in alcohol the red color disappears aud changes 

 to gray, black or intermediate tints and this no doubt is due to a 

 process of oxidation of the pigment. In rare instances, however, the 

 red color does not seem to be affected by alcohol as, for examples, the 

 berry of Arisotma triphyllum and the aril of the seed of Celastnu 

 scandens. The latter I determined to submit to microscopical aud 

 chemical examination and the following are the results of my 

 observations. 



The coloring matter in this case occurs in chromatophores. The 

 figure reveals the following anatomical structure : — A very much 



thickened cuticle (c) of a lemon yellow 

 color. Thi- without a doubt affects to 

 some extent the tint of the aril which 

 has some yellow in it. Courchet 1 states 

 that the color of certain fruits is entirely 

 due to the impregnation of pigment in 

 such epidermal thickenings and he cites 

 as illustrations Solanum macrocarptcm 

 andS. racemiflorum. The epidermis 

 consists of a layer of smaller cells of a 

 rather uniform size. The chromato- 



1 Courchet. Recherches sur les chromoleueites, Annales de Sc Nat., Bot. 

 VII, Ser. VII, 1SS8, p. 301. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



phores (c/t) within these are very conspicuous. They are rather 

 closely packed together and lie parallel to each other. In color they 

 are bright red, and in form very narrowly spindle-shaped. Below the 

 epidermis, the cells constituting the rest of the pulp of the aril are 

 of larger dimensions, and the chromatophores seem scattered irregu- 

 larly through the cells. The drawing shows also the groove (g) be- 

 tween the arils of two adjoining seeds. Attention has been called to 

 the fact that the study of chromatophores and pigments can be carried 

 on with entire certainty only within the living cells on account of 

 their ready decomposition. When I collected my material I had not 

 the opportunity of careful examination, but the resistance which 

 this tissue manifests to powerful reagents, leads me to conclude 

 that in all probability the arrangement as above described is iden- 

 tical with that of the living material. I found further that sections 

 from the dried seeds did not show any difference in appearance 

 from that represented in the drawing. 



According to Zimmermann 2 the pigments of chromatophores found 

 in phanerogams, regarding which we have somewhat definite de- 

 scriptions, are as follows : 



1. Chlorophyll green. 



2. Carotin including chlorophyll yellow. 

 S.^Xanthin. 



4. Coloring matter of Aloe flowers. 



Although certain reactions are characteristic of each of these four 

 .pigments, and although an abundant literature exists, at least so far 

 as the first of these, chlorophyll green, is concerned, we can not with 

 any justification claim even such knowledge as the chemist has in 

 reference to many organic compounds of the various complex series. 

 A formula is attempted only for carotin which is said to be C 26 H 3g . 

 The great difficulty in investigating these pigments lies in their un- 

 willingness to crystallize. Carotin is the only one of these four 

 which occurs within the vegetable cell in crystalline form, and 

 which can be again crystallized when extracted from the plant. In 

 regard to amorphous extractions complete certainty is always want- 

 ing as to the purity of the product, i. e., whether we have a chemical 

 individual to deal with or with a mixture of more or less closely 

 related compounds. 

 _ At __ 



2 Zimmermann, Botanical Microtechnique. Translated by James Ellis Hum- 

 phrey, N. Y., 1893. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



In spite of these discouraging facts this field of research seems to 

 me well worth especial labor and care and the only feasible method 

 is to continue the careful investigations of Arnaud, Courchet, Im- 

 mendorff and Zimmermann which will no doubt shed further light 

 on this hitherto dark field, of interest alike to the botanist, chemist 

 and physiologist. 



I selected the aril of the seed of Celastrus scandens, since some of 

 the peculiarities of the pigment are well marked and I desired to 

 find if possible its place in Zimmermann's four pigments. 



Carotin is found as a crystalline secretion in the root of Dauem 

 Carota also in red flowers and fruits of other plants. It imparts a 

 blood red color to carbon bisulphide in which it is readily soluble 

 and from which it may be obtained in the form of a crystalline pre- 

 cipitate by the addition of alcohol. I found that the pigment of the 

 aril of Celastrus scandens was soluble in carbon bisulphide forming 

 a deep red solution, but no precipitate was visible in the addition of 

 alcohol. After evaporation an amorphous sticky mass resulted and 

 it will thus be seen that it differs from carotin in this respect. 



In using various well known solvents I found their effects as 

 follows : 



1. Water, no visible effect. 



2. Alcohol, 50 per cent no visible effect on chromatophores, but 

 the solution was slightly tinged yellow. 



3. Alcohol absolute, more soluble ; the solution of a deeper 

 tinge. 



4. Ether, about like 50 per cent alcohol in color but a greater 

 amount of yellow residue left on evaporation. 3 



5. Aceton, about like 50 per cent alcohol. 



6. Chloroform, much more soluble, solution deep red. 



7. Carbon bisulphide, similar to chloroform, solution deep red. 

 Carotin " according to Arnaud is insoluble in water, almost so in 



alcohol, very slightly soluble in ether, and most so in chloroform 

 and carbon bisulphide. These solutions are colored yellow to orange 

 yellow, according to their degree of concentration, while the solution 

 of carotin in carbon bisulphide is always blood red." * 



' It is possible that the yellow matter with which the cuticle is impregnated 

 influences to some extent the color imparted to the solvents. This requires 

 further attention. 



4 Zimmermann, Microtechnique, p. 102. 







0/L ^frcfa^ 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 217 



Comparing then this statement Avith what I have observed re- 

 garding the pigment under consideration we find that there is a 

 close similarity as to its solubility and that of carotin. 



With concentrated sulphuric acid the chromatophores changed 

 first to a greenish color and then to a decidedly purple-blue. This 

 same change of color was effected when concentrated sulphuric acid 

 was added to the chloroform solution. With iodine (in potassium 

 iodide) the chromatophores turned blue-green, like the color char- 

 acteristic of the Cyanophycese. 



According to Zimmermann 5 with a solution of iodine (e. g. aque- 

 ous solution of iodine and iodide of potassium) carotin is colored 

 greenish or greenish-yellow ; with concentrated sulphuric acid, first 

 violet and then indigo blue. 



There is evidently, therefore, also much resemblance between the 

 effect of iodine and concentrated sulphuric acid upon carotin and 

 the red pigment of Celastrus sca?)dens. 



Lacking, however, complete correspondence I next determined to 

 discover if it approached xanthin more closely in its properties. It 

 differs from this in its most conspicuous, although on that account by 

 no means most important property, its color. " Xanthin occurs in 

 yellow chromoplasts in amorphous form, and especially in small 

 granules. 6 Its alcoholic solution leaves on evaporation a wholly 

 amorphous resin-like mass. It is insoluble in water, little solu- 

 ble in ether, chloroform and benzine but more so in alcohol. 

 With concentrated sulphuric acid, the isolated pigment, as well as 

 the chromoplast takes first a greenish then a blue color ; with iodine 

 best used in the form of potassium iodide it becomes green." 7 



It will be seen from this that while the red pigment of Celastrus 

 scandens differs from xanthin in its solubility it agrees with it more 

 closely as regards the effect of sulphuric acid than does carotin. 

 Another striking resemblance with xanthin is the resin-like amorph- 

 ous residue left when the solvents are evaporated. 



The behavior of the coloring matter of the aril of the seed of 

 Celastrus scandens with different solvents and other reagents leads 



5 Ibid., p. 102. 



6 It appears to me of no great importance to distinguish between pigments 

 occurring in solution or in granules so long as we know no more about solu- 

 tions than we do at present. We consider pigments in solution if present in 

 such a fine state of division that the individual particles can no longer be recog- 

 nized. It must be admitted than such an distinction is purely arbitrary. 



7 Zimmermann, Microtechnique, p. 103. 



15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



us to conclude that in it we find a connecting link between the 

 crystallizing carotin of red flowers and fruits and the amorphous 

 resin-like xanthin of yellow flowers, and these observations tend to 

 confirm Courchet's views that the pigments of yellow and red 

 chromatophores having the property of turning blue or green with 

 sulphuric acid, thus distinguished from all other pigments, repre- 

 sent a group of closely related compounds" whose composition cer- 

 tainly demands further investigation. 9 



8 Courchet, Recherches sur les chromoleucites. Annales de Sc Xat., Bot. VII 

 Ser. VII, 1888, p. 291. 



9 The coloring matter described in this paper i< also remarkable for its resis- 

 tance to the action of alkalies. Boiling with potassium hydroxide does not de- 

 compose it. 




1896.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 219 



April 7. 

 Mr. Theodore D. Rand in the Chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



The Serpentines of Eastern Pennsylvania. — Theodore D. Rand 

 called attention to the specimens of serpentine presented this even- 

 ing. They had been collected from numerous localities in south- 

 eastern Pennsylvania. He regarded them, as stated in a paper read 

 before the Academy, as belonging to at least two groups : one bor- 

 dering the ancient gneiss ; the other, which he believed to be much 

 more recent, occurring in the mica schists and gneisses. 



The former are altered igneous rocks, either pyroxenic or chryso- 

 litic, the chief material being enstatite, found often but slightly al- 

 tered ; the latter of more doubtful and perhaps varied origin, deter- 

 mination of which will require much more study of thin sections 

 under the microscope. 



The bright yellow serpentine from Easttown Township, Chester 

 Co., is probably altered chrysolite chiefly, while that from Fritz 

 Island, near Reading, is an altered dolomite. That from Brinton's 

 Quarry, near West Chester, contains bronzite, not entirely changed. 



The Radnor serpentine is chiefly altered enstatite, but specimens 

 presented show, also, a change from asbestus into serpentine. 



Ko rock is better suited than serpentine to show that minerals 

 have a life history, that they are not the unchangeable substances 

 commonly supposed, for serpentine seems to be a stage in the life of 

 many minerals of which magnesia is a large component, while ser- 

 pentine, in its turn, decomposes into soil, or occasionally, indeed in 

 this region frequently, into quartz. 



Perido-Steatite and Diabase. — Dr. Florence Bascom stated that 

 she had recently made examination of thin sections from the ser- 

 pentine of the belt running northeast and southwest from Chestnut 

 Hill through the soapstone quarry to a point northeast of Bryn 

 Mawr, and also of the trap of the Conshohockeu dyke. 



The serpentine was from the quarries on the Black Rock road, 

 between Mill Creek and the Roberts road. The belt lies wholly 

 within the mica schists on the southeast side of the Pre-Cambrian 

 gneiss. The serpentine proved to be derived from a peridotite and 

 not from a dolomite or from an enstatite rock, as in other cases 

 mentioned. The thin sections show olivine grains with the charac- 

 teristic alteration to serpentine on their peripheries; much talc or 

 steatite is present. The rock is, therefore, a perido-steatite. The 

 dark green crystals, conspicuous in the hand specimens, often 

 twinned, are pseudomorphs after olivine, and not after staurolite, 

 the forms of each resemblino' the other closelv. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The rock of the Conshohockeu dyke is medium-grained, compact, 

 of a gray color on the fresh surface, a rusty green on the weathered 

 surface. In thin sections it shows itself a typical diabase, with 

 plagioclase, pyroxene, ilmenite and apatite, as primary constituents, 

 and chlorite, serpentine, scanty biotite and calcite, as secondary 

 constituents. The structure is characteristically ophitic: slender 

 idiomorphic lath-shaped feldspars form a net work, while allotrio- 

 morphic pyroxene fills the angular spaces. The feldspar is twinned 

 according to the albite law, and its optical properties indicate that 

 it belongs to the labradorite-bytownite end of the series. The py- 

 roxene is a colorless nonpleochroic monoclinic variety. The cleav- 

 ages and low extinction angle point to diallage as the species. Apa- 

 tite is the oldest constituent. Ilmenite shows slight alteration to 

 leucoxene. The rock is very like the Pine Rock diabase described 

 by Dana in Amer. Jour. ScL, Vol. 42, 1891, page 82. 



April 14. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty -seven persons present. 



April 21. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair 



Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Revision of the Polar Hares of America," 

 by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



A run. 28. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled "A Remarkable Central American Melanian." 

 by H. A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



The death of William Hunt, M. D., a member, April 19. 1896, 

 was announced. 



Dr. Persifor Frazeb was appointed t<> represent the Academy 

 at the Seventh Session of the International i gress of < gista 



to be held in St. Petersburg in L897. 



An invitation to participate in the Mining and Geological 

 Millennial Congress, to be held at Budapest, September 25th and 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



26th, was accepted and Prof. Angelo Heilprin was appointed 

 to represent the Academy on the occasion. 



The following were appointed to constitute the Hayden Geo- 

 logical Memorial Committee for 1896: — Dr. Persifor Frazer, Prof. 

 Angelo Heilprin, Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman, Prof. J. P. Lesley 

 and Mr. Theodore D. Rand. 



Mr. William H. Roberts was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF JOHN ADAM RYDER. 



BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



I. 



John Adam Ryder, 1 the first child of bis parents, was born Feb- 

 ruary 29, 1852, near Loudon, Franklin County, Pennsylvania. His 

 parents are Benjamin Longenecker Ryder and Anna Frick Ryder. 

 On his father's side he was descended from Michael Ryder who was 

 one of three sons whose father came from England and settled 

 near Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Michael Ryder removed from Mas- 

 sachusetts to Pennsylvania where his descendents have since lived. 

 His paternal grandmother, Elizabeth Longenecker, the wife of Adam 

 Ryder, was of German origin. She was born in Lancaster County, 

 Pennsylvania. 



Anna Frick Ryder, the mother of John Ryder, was born in 

 Maryland. She is in part of Swiss descent. The maternal grand- 

 mother Anna Kelso was of Scotch origin. Her great grandfather 

 was William, Earl of Kelso. At the time of the persecution of the 

 Presbyterians in Scotland during the reign of Charles II, the Earl 

 of Kelso, together with his wife, infant son and brother James, were 

 compelled to leave Scotland. They sought refuge in Ireland, where 

 James Kelso was captured, taken to London and executed. The 



1 In the preparation of this sketcli the list of questions prepared by Mr. 

 Galton in his monograph on " Men of Science " was sent to the family of Dr. 

 Ryder and the details in all respects are based upon the answers received. 

 The expressions of opinion of the speakers at a meeting held at the Acad- 

 emy's Hall, April 10, 1895, have been frequently quoted. The words " Me- 

 morial Pamphlet," when following a quotation refers to a brochure entitled 

 "In Memoriam," which comprises addresses delivered at that meeting in 

 the following order : Dr. Harrison Allen, Dr. Basliford Dean, Prof. Horace 

 Jayne, Prof. E. D. Cope, Mr. H. F. Moore and Prof. W. P. Wilson. The 

 brochure was printed for private distribution by a few admirers of Dr. 

 Ryder in the fall of 1895. The writer desires to express his acknowledgments 

 to many of Dr. Ryder's associates for information, especially to Kev. Jesse Y. 

 Burk, Secretary of Board of Trustees University of Pennsylvania, Mr. W. C. 

 Seal of Philadelphia, Prof. J. S. Kingslcy of Tuffs College, Massachusetts. 

 Mr. Edward Brooks, Superintendent of the Public Schools of Pennsylvania, 

 and Mr. Herbert A. Gill, Secretary of the United States Fish Commission. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



estates were confiscated. A grandson of William Kelso, above 

 referred to, came to America. 



Et will be tbus seen that Dr. Ryder was twice removed from an- 

 cestors who combined English, Scotch, German and Swiss traits. 



Dr. Ryder's father was by training a farmer. He became inter- 

 ested in horticulture and at one time conducted a large nursery. 

 His talents for invention are of an exceptional order; he has im- 

 proved mechanical devices for preserving and curing fruits, vege- 

 table and animal products, and has become widely known in con- 

 nection with their manufacture and introduction. 



Dr. Ryder's inventive ability can be traced in great measure to 

 his father and remotely to the Longenecker branch of the family. 

 His mother, hoAvever, possesses inventive skill in no mean degree. 

 Ryder had no taste for music ; in this respect he resembled his 

 mother, since the taste was well developed in the father. He had a 

 natural facility for drawing, although he never cultivated it beyond 

 what was necessary for the illustration of his papers and for the 

 class room. This talent, also, is traceable to his father. His taste 

 for natural history is a direct inheritance from his mother. While 

 Dr. Ryder never became much interested in medicine, many phases 

 of his researches are so closely allied to this science that he may be 

 said to have inherited the taste from his father, who, although never 

 having studied medicine systematically, had that turn of mind 

 which is constantly tending to contemplate the nature of disease. A 

 paternal aunt of Dr. Ryder studied medicine. She was never grad- 

 uated. Her medical opinion was frequently sought for and valued 

 in the community where she lived. She was also of an inventive 

 turn of mind. 



Dr. Ryder early exhibited a taste for natural history. When 

 three years old he was constantly bringing into the house brightly col- 

 ored stones, insects and other natural objects. At eight years he 

 knew the botanical names of all the plants in his father's nursery. 

 While very young he was noted for a habit which distinguished 

 him throughout life, namely, of always having his mind occupied 

 with something apart from the duties in hand ; thus, while helping 

 his father at pruning or grafting, he would recite aloud passages 

 from a favorite author, a copy of which would be found in his pocket. 

 On one occasion his father hearing hearty laughter asked him the 

 cause of his mirth. The boy replied he wondered how Diogenes 

 felt living in such a small place as a tub, and what fun he must 

 have had searching for the honest man. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Every farmer in those days kept a few swarms of bees. While 

 Mr. Ryder was not a professional apiculturist, he knew in common 

 with his neighbors a good deal about the raising of bees. Ryder 

 developed an interest and without being specially instructed became 

 proficient in the care of bees, and throughout life often reverted to 

 their habits for many points in the economy of insects. 



At three years of age he began to receive instruction from his 

 maternal grandmother from whom he early mastered the rudiments 

 of German. He attributed his subsequent fluency in German (for 

 he could speak it like a native) to this early impression. A little 

 book entitled "Biblische Naturgeschichte fur Kinder" bears his 

 name on the cover with the date of 1860. 



Ryder spent the life usual to a country boy. He possessed great 

 energy of body and was fond of walking, rarely, if ever, using a 

 horse to ride, although the stable was at his command. He attended 

 the country school from the age of six or seven until his fifteenth 

 year, when he ran away. Soon afterward he was sent to the Acad- 

 emy and then to the Normal School at Millersville from which he 

 also ran away, and did not return home but lived the life of a tramp 

 for some days before he was detected. He was severely punished 

 for both these escapades. It appears that Ryder was always very 

 sensitive and never associated with hoys of his age in the sports cus- 

 tomary to youth, but wandered about alone through the woods and 

 meadows collecting insects and plants. He soon earned the nick- 

 name of " crazy John." In the end bis father prudently Later- 

 viewed the principal of the Academy and made special arrangements 

 which enabled Ryder to live on more agreeable terms. But he was 

 unhappy under restraint. Class work was distasteful to him and 

 discipline of any kind resented. In order to secure his obedience 

 it was sometimes necessary to give him directions adverse to those 

 which it was intended for him to obey. Preferring to study in his 

 own way, he spent the greater portion of his time in the library of 

 one of the local literary societies. He read every book it contained. 

 He was geatly influenced by Horace Mann's " Thoughts for a Young 

 Man," 2 a copy of which he procured. In 1875 in writing to his 

 brother he said " be careful of this book, five dollars would not buy 

 it, if I were unable to get another." In 1868 when in his sixteenth 



'■ A Few Thoughts for a Young Man : a Lecture delivered before the Bos- 

 ton Mercantile Library Association on its 29th Anniversary. By Horace 

 Mann. Boston : Ticknor, Reed and Fields, 1850. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



year, he wrote home asking for a microscope, books on natural his- 

 tory, chemical apparatus, etc. His restless spirit caused him to 

 drop out of the school for good after a few months. 



He taught school in the neighborhood of Loudon and afterward 

 in the High School of the county for three years. He was quite suc- 

 cessful and was much esteemed by all who were brought in contact 

 with him. 



\Ve now find Ryder in his twenty-second year with the best 

 equipment it was possible to secure for him in a rural district. His 

 tastes were defined, and he at once made up his mind to devote him- 

 self to the study of science. This decision was quickened l>v the 

 failure of his father in business, so that Ryder was thrown entirely 

 upon his own resources. Of a proud disposition, he refused all 

 assistance from his relatives, and Learning that the Jessup Fund of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia afforded assist- 

 ance to young men who were desirous of devoting themselves to the 

 study of natural history, he came to Philadelphia in the spring of 

 1874, and appealed to Mr. Thomas Meehan, an old friend of his 

 father, for advice. Mr. Meehan states that Ryder visited him at his 

 residence in Germantown. His funds were low, and to save money 

 he had walked the entire distauce, twelve miles, from Philadelphia. 

 Mr. Meehan was interested in Ryder, who was, however, urged not 

 to attempt to live on the small amount of five dollars a week per- 

 mitted by the fund. But Ryder was not to be deterred. He felt 

 confident that he could in some way manage, and accordingly, 

 armed with a letter of introduction, he visited the Academy and 

 made formal application. This was, at first, unsuccessful, but in 

 the latter part of the year he was duly appointed. He remained in 

 the Academy as a beneficiary of the Fund for six years. 



Little is known of his private life during the greater part of this 

 time. In 1879, Mr. J. S. Kingsley, now Professor of Biology in 

 Tuft's College, Massachusetts, was his associate, and through him it 

 is ascertained that Ryder lived on the top floor of No. 1113 Chest- 

 nut Street. His chamber and laboratory were one. L T pper rooms 

 in business blocks were then cheap, and food at moderate prices, 

 offered for the use of employes of newspaper offices in the neighbor- 

 hood, could be obtained day and night. The markets and restaur- 

 ants of Philadelphia furnish plain, wholesome food at rates which 

 compare favorably with those in any American city. Meals at 

 fifteen cents each are important factors in solving a problem of 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



living on seventy cents a day. It was the custom of the proprietor 

 of the restaurant frequented by Ryder to put aside for him the oys- 

 ter shells, which, after each meal, were inspected for organisms. In 

 this way he discovered the sponge Camaraphysema. Doubtless the 

 work on the habits and food of the oyster, on which Ryder's fame in 

 a measure rests, began in these desultory studies. 



It was a time of formative plans. Among these may be recalled — 

 an educational scheme by which the teachers in the public schools 

 were to be prepared for imparting the elements of biology to their 

 pupils; a course of popular lectures at the Wagner Institute; and a 

 series of papers on natural history for a Philadelphia paper. None 

 of these came to anything. 



Such a life in a region of stores and warehouses is well enough dur- 

 ing the week. The days and nights are separated by the changes in 

 light — but not by changes in habit. But on Sunday the business part 

 of a city is but little better than a desert. Ryder was in the habit 

 of spending this day, when the season favored his so doing, in the 

 suburban districts, or in Fairmount Park. It was on such excur- 

 sions he discovered Scolopendrella and Eurypauropus. 



The previous education of Ryder was one inadequately qualifying 

 him for the career of a naturalist. This, indeed, is not less than that 

 required to equip a student for any intellectual career whatsoever. 

 How immense the labor when one is compelled to equip himself! The 

 naturalist must be a linguist (for there is scarcely a modern Euro- 

 pean language which may not possess a treasure for his needs) ; he 

 is all the better for being a draughtsman ; he should command a 

 good literary style; he should be a mathematician and physicist. 

 Ryder, in these preparatory years, attempted all these things l>ut the 

 last. His endeavors to acquire new languages and a good literary 

 style were unending. One of his favorite pastimes was to read an 

 essay of Addison twice and then write out the essay from memory. 

 He would then compare his sketch with the original. His tastes in 

 art were not formed, and he rarely alluded to the subjects embraced 

 among the humanities. 



Mr. W. P. Seal, the well-known aquarium expert, was of great 

 value to Ryder at this time in bringing him all the unusual speci- 

 mens he detected while making collections of fresh water tidies and 

 plants in the neighborhood of Philadelphia. At the end of his ser- 

 vice in the Academy, Ryder had contributed thirty-one papers, most 

 of which were based upon studies made in the Museum or on 

 low forms of life. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



In 1880, the National Government was desirous of having investi- 

 gations prosecuted in behalf of the United States Fish Commission on 

 the life-history of the American food-fishes and other aquatic animals, 

 especially their embryology and growth, the character of their food 

 in the early as well as the later stages of life. In the judgment of 

 Prof. Baird, who was at that time Commissioner, no one in the 

 country possessed the qualifications to meet the provisions of such 

 investigations in so high a degree as Dr. Ryder. 



He was at once invited to undertake the work, which not only 

 gave him an opportunity of systematizing his studies (these were 

 already embracing the higher problems in biology), but had the 

 advantage of placing him in a better paid position. 



It is true that up to this date Ryder had given no special atten- 

 tion to fishes, but he had obtained a general knowledge of the sub- 

 ject at the Academy, his inherited talent for invention lent itself 

 readily to the details of field-work, while his acquaintance with 

 the lower forms of aquatic life fitted him for the study of the food 

 of fishes, the study of their young stages, their parasites, etc. 3 



Dr. Ryder always referred to this period with interest. His first 

 detail was to the field, but in 1882, Prof. Baird transferred him to 

 the National Museum, occasionally only, assigning him to field- 

 work. He was extraordinarily active during the six years he re- 

 mained on the Commission. He contributed twenty-nine papers on 

 the oyster and oyster-culture, and fifty papers on the development 

 of fishes, their food material and methods of development. All his 

 contributions were carefully prepared and showed extensive knowl- 

 edge of the subjects treated. He discovered, in 1888, a byssus in 

 a young stage of the long clam Mya arenaria. Prof. Baird, in 

 commenting on this discovery in his report for that year, believed " it 

 to be of economic importance since the young individuals now can 

 be freely handled and transported." Mr. Bashford Dean remarks : 

 " I have heard it said that Dr. Ryder had, in his scientific work, 

 grown up with the Commission ; it might, I think, be said even as 

 justly that the Commission had, in a measure, grown up with him." 4 

 His personality and methods had stamped themselves upon every 



3 (1) The following papers, prior to 18S0, related to Dr. Ryder's contribu- 

 tion to ichthyology : " On the Origin of Bilateral Symmetry and the Numer- 

 ous Segments of the Soft Rays of Fishes ; " " Phosphorescence of very Young 

 Fishes ; " " The Psorosperms found in Aphn tl<»J< rus sayanus." 



4 Memorial Pamphlet. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



officer of the Commission to which he had been originally attached 

 as an expert. He " merited the confidence and esteem of every one 

 from the Commissioner to the humblest attendant." 



On the occasion of his resignation, 1886, Prof. Baird expressed 

 himself in a personal letter in these words : " In view of the many 

 years of your connection with the Fish Commission, and the valu- 

 able services which you have rendered by the exercise of your pro- 

 fessional skill and ability, I accept your resignation with very 

 great regret." His work, however, on the Commission, did not at 

 once cease. He was employed in May and June, 1888, to investi- 

 gate the sturgeon fisheries in the Delaware River. 5 During the 

 remainder of the summer of the same year, he had charge of the 

 station at Wood's Hole. 



His interest in the study of Cetacea began while on the Commis- 

 sion. Although his work on this subject was never extensive, per- 

 haps no other group of observations better illustrate the higher 

 characteristics of his mind. 



In 1886, it was determined by the authorities of the University of 

 Pennsylvania, at the suggestion of Prof. Horace Jayne, to found a 

 chair of Comparative Histology and Embryology. A> stated by 

 Prof. Jayne, "It was seen that a course was needed which would 

 give students a thorough knowledge of comparative microscopic 

 anatomy, together with the development of the tissue- and of the 

 different kinds of animal forms.'""' The chair was otic-red to Dr. 

 Ryder and accepted, though " he hesitated at first," to again quote 

 Prof. Jayne, " because he mistrusted his power to teach and handle 

 large classes of students, a mistrust which was never shared by his 

 friends." In many respects, the change from the duties of a bio- 

 logical expert on the Fish Commission to those of a professorial 

 position was beneficial. He was now enabled to systematize his 

 time, and permitted to extend the range of his inquiries. By re- 

 newal of associations at the Academy of Natural Sciences, he was 

 assisted also in keeping thoroughly in touch with the progress of his 

 favorite science. 



In illustration of the zeal with which he prepared himself for his 

 now duties, the following extract is taken from a letter written to 

 Mr. Seal, from Chambersburg. "I am embracing an opportunity 

 for the collection of embryos of warm blooded vertebrates, which I 



■ Report of Fish Commission, Bulletin, 1888, p. 231. 



6 Memorial Pamphlet. 






189(5.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



have never enjoyed until this season, and, unless one can give his 

 whole time to the work of opening hundreds of females with great 

 care, and have the means and time to preserve the material ob- 

 tained, it is but very little use to bother with the subject. I have 

 eviscerated about five hundred rats, mice, field-mice, moles, bats and 

 musk-rats. I have a fine lot of embryos of all stages nicely pre- 

 served. Besides this I have obtained two hundred and fifty spar- 

 row's eggs in all stages of incubation, which I have also put in good 

 condition." 



After an experience of nine years, terminating only in his death. 

 it can be said of him that all the expectations raised at the time of 

 his appointment were more than realized. He proved himself to be 

 a diligent teacher and an esteemed colleague. As matters appear to 

 be arranged for men of Ryder's attainments, a university position is 

 the best available. Speaking for the personal side of his career, it 

 may be said of him, as I am sure he might have said for himself, 

 that to receive the respectful admiration and affection of pupils and 

 to influence for good the mental development of youth, is for any 

 man a sufficient reward. A former pupil, Mr. H. F. Moore, says of 

 him : " What he may have lacked in some of the usual attributes 

 of a successful teacher was more than compensated for by his 

 keen sympathy, his painstaking care and his skill with crayon and 

 pencil. If Tie had found a point of interest in his work, he usually 

 invited us to enter, and would unfold to us his hopes and aspira- 

 tions with the enthusiasm and simplicity of youth." Yet, after all 

 is said, one must agree with his friend, Mr. W. V. McKean, that 

 "Ryder was essentially the kind of investigator that it would have 

 been a public benefit to have established in an amply endowed uni- 

 versity chair, so that he might be entirely free to pursue his re- 

 searches unhindered by any mere task work." 



Dr. Ryder enjoyed perfect health until 1882, when he contracted 

 malaria while engaged in some researches in connection with his 

 work on the Fish Commission, at Ridge, Maryland. He suffered 

 from a recurrence in 1888, while residing in Philadelphia. About 

 this time dyspepsia announced itself. He suffered greatly and be- 

 came much emaciated. In the summer of 1890 he visited Europe, 

 but returned scarcely at all improved. He had an attack of the pre- 

 vailing influenza in 1894, and from this time more serious and ob- 

 scure impairment of the general health ensued. He died March 

 26, 1895, after an acute illness of a few days, aged forty-three 

 years. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Dr. Ryder's death was unexpected, and expressions of regret were 

 universal. The daily papers published detailed accounts of his life 

 and services. Iramediatelyafter the death, theBoard of Trusteesof the 

 University held a meeting, at which Dr. S. Weir Mitchell made a feel- 

 ing announcement. The Board then passed the following resolution : 

 " The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania deplore the loss 

 sustained by it in the death of John A. Ryder, Ph. D., Professor of 

 Comparative Histology and Embryology. Called to that Chair in 

 1886, he quitted for it a congenial field of labor under the United 

 States Fish Commission, in which he had rendered great service to 

 the Government, and acquired for himself a world-wide reputation. 

 Thenceforth, he devoted himself equally, and with a fidelity and 

 effectiveness that ended only with his life, to the work of a teacher 

 and that of an investigator. His characteristic traits were modesty, 

 unselfishness, and sincerity in the search for truth. To these were 

 added a rare talent for investigation, strong intellectual capacity, 

 and unremitting industry ; and these inured not only to the benefit 

 of the school in which he taught, but to the distinct advancement, 

 both in theory and in application to the science of biology to which 

 his life was consecrated." 



The funeral services were conducted by Prof. George F. Fuller- 

 ton, Vice-Provost, and the Rev. Dr. H. C. McCook. His body was 

 cremated. 



A memorial meeting, held in the hall of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, April 10th, was participated in by mem- 

 bers of the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania, representatives 

 of the American Philosophical Society, the United States Fish 

 Commission, and the Academy. 7 



Dr. Ryder was elected a member of the Academy of Natura - - 

 ences of Philadelphia, January 29, 1878, and of the Biological Section 

 of that body November 15, 1886. He was Director of the Section 

 from 1886 to 1888. He was elected a member of the American 

 Philosophical Society, December 17, 1 886. The University of Penn- 

 sylvania conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. 

 1886. He was also a member of the following societies: The 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia (life member) : the American 

 Morphological Society; the American Society of Naturalists; the 

 American Association for the Advancement of Science ; the Asso- 

 ciation of American Anatomists, and the Historical Society of Penn- 

 sylvania. 



7 See note on page '222. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



II. 



Dr. Ryder was a man of restless mental activity. Plan after plan 

 was discussed in his early letters. ISo defence was offered for this 

 eagerness of spirit. On the contrary, he says in one of his outbursts : 

 " I see more worlds ahead of me to conquer, so that I have little 

 time to attend to number one, that often restive and troublesome 

 person who is always reaching for toys he ought not to have, greatly 

 to the disadvantage of more serious matters." Circumstances an- 

 nulled most of his numerous enterprises, but the ideas were, without 

 exception, admirable, and some of them were afterward realized by 

 others. In 1879, he proposed to establish in Philadelphia, in con- 

 junction with Mr. W. C. Seal, a depot of material for biological 

 laboratories and class-room demonstrations. It was intended that 

 Mr. Seal would collect and preserve the specimens which Dr. Ryder 

 would undertake to identify and to furnish all other information. 

 It was designed to embrace marine and fresh-water, as well as 

 terrestrial forms. In association with his friend, Mr. J. S. Kingsley, 

 he at one time thought of writing a book on the infusoria, a work 

 that yet remains a desideratum. Dr. Ryder had a ready knowledge 

 of the group. In later years he constantly reverted to it for illustra- 

 tion in his studies of the movements of protoplasm. A third under- 

 taking on the embryology of fishes was proposed. It never went 

 further than the title-page. In 1887, he seriously contemplated a 

 text-book on general embryology. It was to be " copiously illus- 

 trated and to set forth the principles from new points of view." To 

 this task he intended devoting two or three years. In 1893, he 

 published, under the auspices of the University of Pennsylvania, a 

 pamphlet entitled " The Synthetical Museum of Comparative Anat- 

 omy as the Basis for a Comprehensive System of Research." 



It is a remarkable fact that Dr. Ryder, in his active and versa- 

 tile career, never wrote an extended memoir. Everything he pre- 

 pared for the press was the direct outcome of the practical tasks 

 upon which he was officially engaged. 



His work in zoology 8 was not large. Reference to the bibli- 

 ography shows that twelve papers may be so classified. He once 



8 Dr. Ryder made a few observations in physiological botany. Early in his 

 career, viz., 1877, he noted the disposition of the tendrils of Cocculus indicus 

 to twine. (Proc. A. N. S., 1877, 3). In 1879 he observed the honey-glands 

 of the leaves of Catalpa, and the habits of bees respecting them. (Proc. A. N. 

 S., 1879, 6 ; Pastime, 1881, II, 8; Am. Nat., 1878, 4.) 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



said, " The species makers are caviare to me." But he himself did 

 not escape the fate of most biologists in the making of species. 



I have given my impressions of his disinclination to study species 

 elsewhere : 9 " In competent hands the elucidation of species is not, as 

 it has opprobriously been said to be, a dullard's task of taking an 

 inventory of nature, but the study of the ultimate forms which those 

 organisms assume which breed true. The shifting of color schemes, 

 the exhibition of the effects of food and climate on size in whole or 

 in parts, and of other causes by which minute differentiations are 

 started and maintained, are of unending interest, and worthy of the 

 best powers of the naturalist. If Ryder had been more closely iden- 

 tified than he was with the careers of the great academicians who 

 had preceded him, it would in no whit have detracted from the 

 value of his philosophical labors. One cannot but regret, if for no 

 other reason than for his health's sake, that he discontinued those 

 fruitful excursions to our woods, ponds and rivers, by which he con- 

 tributed so notably to our micro-fauna." 



"While Dr. Ryder did not identify himself with zoology, his repu- 

 tation may be said to rest in great part upon his labors on the 

 morphology of the early stages of the development of fishes. This 

 work, for the most part, represents that accomplished by him as an 

 expert on the Fish Commission. His interest in the subject of the 

 nature of species was, however, a deep-seated one, and he was con- 

 stantly reviewing masses of data which he had accumulated in at- 

 tempting to explain the tenets of evolution. That these attempts 

 should have been largely in the direction of dynamics was to be ex- 

 pected, since he was enabled to apply to the problems his talent for 

 mechanics and invention. He also had at hand the conclusions of 

 many contemporaries who were with him eagerly seeking for a 

 hypothesis of evolution not embraced in that of natural selection. 



As early as 1874, he wrote : "I think I have discovered a law 

 which offers a way to the solution of tin' variation of forms in animal 

 life. This law I propose to call the law of the dynamics of phyto- 

 geny. In reading over Herbert Spencer's brilliant essay on the cir- 

 culation of sap in plants and the formation ot' wood. I saw the solu- 

 tion of the problem. Here is field enough for a Darwin. I almost 

 shrink from the task when I consider its magnitude. Cleavage of 

 muscular fibre ; the processes of bone ; the arrangement o( the bony 

 layers; the change of form and length and of position of bony pro- 



tf Memorial Pamphlet. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



cesses ; their relations as a whole ; their relations to the muscles ; 

 their form, arrangements, etc., all proclaim a common law : while 

 every abnormality, injury, reparative expedient, still further strength- 

 ens it in my mind, and is the only thing that will demonstrate to 

 the world the truths of the doctrines of unity of law and universal 

 evolution. It completes Darwin's work on a grander scale than 

 Darwin ever dreamed of. It still further declares that there is one 

 eternal ever-active cause, operating in lines of constant and mathe- 

 matical precision. If Dr. Haughton, of Cambridge, can demon- 

 strate the mathematics of the bones and muscles, surely some one 

 else can study the dynamics that creates them." 



His first work in speculative biology was an attempt to explain 

 by such reasoning a law of reduction of digits in the mammalia. 10 

 In the same year he endeavored to establish a dynamical theory to 

 account for the modifications in the forms of tooth structure and to 

 correlate this structure with the shapes of the lower jaw and other 

 parts of the skull. In the following year he discussed the mechanical 

 genesis, degeneration and coalescence of vertebral centra in a gigan- 

 tic extinct armadillo. 



He developed a theory on the origin of the amnion in 1886, and his 

 explanation of the different types of placenta; in 1887. In 1889 he 

 defended the thesis " that the segmentation of the soft rays of the 

 fins of fishes are simply fractures due to flexures, and that on the 

 caudal fin they possess probably the same direction as the inter- 

 myomeric fissures." 11 Ryder's bibliography contains fourteen titles 

 of papers which illustrate similar lines of reasoning. 



In the same year we have evidence of additions to his methods, 

 for, while keeping to the lines already indicated, he added others of 

 a different character, and sustained by broadly contrasted methods 

 of expression. Allusion is made especially to his studies of the con- 

 tractility of protoplasm, which is first mentioned in his paper, " On 

 the Fore and Aft Poles, the Axial Differentiation and a Possible 

 Anterior Sensory Apparatus of Volvox minor" and in his paper on the 

 " Origin and Meaning of Sex." These papers began a series which 

 (included in the bibliography under numbers 174, 186, 190 and 191) 

 dealt not so much with problems in dynamics as with the old vital 

 doctrines, or, as would be expressed in modern phrase, metabolism. 

 " The Origin and Meaning of Sex " appeared in the Biological Bui- 



10 Law of Digital Reduction, Proc. A. N. S., 1877. 



11 E. D. Cope, Memorial Pamphlet. 



16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



letin, Univ. of Penna., 1889. Extensions of opinion were printed 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy, 1889, and in the American 

 Naturalist, 1889, 501. He held that over-nutrition led to all forms 

 of sexual reproduction ; that the male and female elements are con- 

 trasted in their tendency to undergo segmentation — the female ele- 

 ment having lost the power to undergo such segmentation spontane- 

 ously (excepting in parthenogenesis), — while the male element is 

 accompanied by an increase of segmental power, * * * * 

 " Sex probably arose simultaneously and independently in both 

 female and male as soon as certain cells of coherent groups became 

 over nourished, and incapable of further segmentation unless 

 brought into contact and fused with the minute male element, or 

 one which is the product of an increase of segmentational power 

 which is transferred to the female element in the act of fertilization." 

 Important applications were made of the hypothesis to the study of 

 variation, the evolution of sexual characters, and, as the author be- 

 lieved, a consistent and simple theory of inheritance which is in 

 harmony with all the facts of reproduction. At this time he was in 

 a state bordering on exaltation. " I sat up late last night after the 

 whole thing flashed across my mind in an instant," he writes, " and 

 did not sleep for two hours after I went to bed because my brain 

 Was going like a dynamo, thinking out detail after detail of my hy- 

 pothesis. * * * * Wolfe and Schwann mark two eras in the 

 history of hypothesis. I shall mark a third if I live to complete 

 the sketch of the vast hypothesis. * * * * My disappoint- 

 ments vanish into the uttermost inane when I think of what it has 

 been possible for me to achieve." 



After such strong evidence of his belief in the value of this theory, 

 it is hard to understand how he practically dropped the subject. 

 Subsequent to the dates above given, I have come across no refer- 

 ence to it, nor is any mention made of the matter in the estimates 

 of his work that have appeared since his death. 



It is impossible to understand Ryder's attitude toward evolution, 

 without regarding his disbelief in the " cult " usually known as Weis- 

 mannism, which embraces the opinions that acquired characters 

 cannot be transmitted, and that a portion of each organism is car- 

 ried unchanged from parent to offspring. He said, in his paper on 

 sex, " The hypothesis which assumes that the germ-plasma is pre- 

 cociously set aside in order to render it immiscible with the somatic 

 plasma, and therefore immortal, is based upon a fundamental error 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



of interpretation of the facts of morphology." In another place, an 

 address entitled " Dynamics in Evolution," 1893, he said, " experi- 

 mental investigations in embryology will make no solid progress 

 until the mischievous influence of such speculations have been eradi- 

 cated from the minds of the present generation." These opinions 

 remained unmodified to the day of his death. Perhaps the best ex- 

 pression of his views can be found in a lecture delivered at Wood's 

 Hole, 1894, and a second lecture entitled "A Dynamical Hypothe- 

 sis of Inheritance." 



The last phase of his scientific life is the most instructive, namely, 

 that relating to the application of geometry and the differential cal- 

 culus to the study of organic forms. The idea that anatomy and 

 mathematics can be of mutual assistance generally comes to savants 

 too late for practical use. Against the example of Helmholtz we cite 

 many failures. Mathematics came to John Goodsir too late for 

 anatomy, and anatomy to Fechner too late for mathematics. When 

 Ryder saw the necessity of preparing himself in these sciences 

 (for his early training had excluded them), he set to work to supply 

 the defect with characteristic energy. He studied geometry and the 

 calculus in spare hours. He became enthusiastic for them. He 

 declared geometry to be the noblest of the sciences. He read the 

 writings of Lord Kelvin carefully; his admiration for them was 

 unbounded. At the time of Ryder's death, two works lay on the 

 bed, one was a text-book on the differential calculus, the other a 

 volume of Lord Kelvin's works. 



It is difficult to fix a time when the mathematical explanation of 

 the mechanics of evolution occurred to him. We have seen that he 

 was influenced by Haughton as early as 1874. If we can draw an 

 inference from the reading of the paper entitled " The Fore and Aft 

 Poles of Volvox minor," previously quoted, and again the essay 

 " The Polar Differentiation of Volvox minor " and " Specialization of 

 Possible Anterior Sense Organs " (No. 174, Bibliography), the idea 

 apparently suggested itself by studies in the early Academy days on 

 the infusoria and later on the development of simple organisms. 

 The same conception occurs in his papers on " Energy in Biological 

 Evolution ; " " Of the Representation of the Relative Intensity of the 

 Conflict Between Organisms ; " " Energy as a Factor in Organic 

 Evolution ; " " Mechanical Genesis of the Form of the Fowl's Egg ; " 

 " The Adaptive Forms and Vortex Motions of the Substance of the 

 Red Blood Corpuscles of Vertebrates ; " " The Correlation of the 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Volumes and Surfaces of Organisms." 12 One of the last demonstra- 

 tions he made was at a meeting of the Bibliographical Club of the 

 University of Pennsylvania, when he exhibited contractile films of 

 gelatin in illustration of the mechanical conditions underlying the 

 problem of the arrangement of the convolutions of the brain. 



In January, 1890, he writes : " It is my hope to reduce the doc- 

 trine of evolution into a simple realization of Newtonian principles. 

 The three great Newtonian laws of motion are at the bottom of the 

 whole matter. Some day I shall be able to tell a great deal that I 

 have kept to myself in order to test its truth. * * * * I am 

 engaged — and will be hereafter almost entirely — in determining the 

 factors and processes which have effected the evolution and diverg- 

 ence of species. * * * * I have at last worked out a new 

 theory of inheritance which must ultimately replace those of Weis- 

 mann and Darwin, or at least furnish the foundation by which the 

 data and phenomena of variation and inheritance can be co-ordi- 

 nated with the great universal principle of the doctrine of the con- 

 servation of energy. The speculations of Darwin, Haeckel, Weis- 

 mann, Brooks, DeBries, Strassburger and Nageli looking to a theory 

 of inheritance are irreconcilable with the fundamental postulates of 

 physical science, and must be abandoned. This also renders the 

 conflict between the hypothesis of Darwin and those of Lamarck one 

 of primary importance, and sharply defines the line of battle be- 

 tween the thinkers who range themselves under the banner of one 

 or the other of these prophets of transformism." 



While it is impossible to say what Dr. Ryder would have accom- 

 plished in his attempt to use mathematics as a medium of expression 

 of biological problems, this much can be said, not only for him. but 

 for all others similarly placed, that a course of training in geometry 

 and the higher mathematics should be a part of the equipment of 

 the student in biology. It does, indeed, seem pitiable that, ascend- 

 ing the heights of knowledge, he finds, as he nears the top, that the 

 key which he believes can alone open the temple erected there lias 

 been left behind. 



III. 



Dr. Ryder was five feet eleven inches high, of a slender, slightly- 

 stooping figure. While spare he had a robust physique. He was 



12 See Bibliography, Nos. 182, 134, 186, 187, 189, and especially Nob. 190, 

 191, 192, 195, 199, 200, 204, 205, 206 and 207. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



of nervous temperament. His complexion was light — the hair 

 flaxen. He was plain — almost careless — in his dress. He had a 

 habit of sitting cross-legged and swinging one foot when deeply 

 engaged in thought or study. He was of a genial disposition and 

 enjoyed gatherings with his students after class hours, or discussions 

 with his colleagues and friends at the Academy and other places. 

 His learning was great, especially in contemporary literature, and 

 nothing appeared to give him so much pleasure as talking of the 

 work of his co-laborers ; but he disliked what are called " social 

 functions," and toward the latter part of his life was rarely present 

 at them. From the beginning of his scientific career to his later 

 years he did not require much sleep, taking about six hours daily, 

 though his habits in this resprct were never regular. He had great 

 energy of mind, and power of accomplishing a large amount of brain 

 work. His memory was remarkably retentive — he never forgot 

 anything he once heard or read. In addition to his early attain- 

 ment of German, he read for scientific purposes French, Italian, 

 Spanish, Dutch, Danish, Swedish and Russian. 



His sense of duty was highly developed. He believed that the 

 power of the will over action was practically without limit. Yet 

 the motive for the exercise of the will must be from within. Hence 

 can be explained his apparent obstinacy of disposition as a child ; 

 his aversion to class work at school ; and his independence of con- 

 vention, both as to thought and action in mature life. 



Sometime prior to his appointment on the Fish Commission, Mr. 

 W. V. McKean invited him to write articles on natural history for 

 the Public Ledger. But Ryder could not overcome a distrust 

 that his essays would be too technical for popular favor. That he 

 should have declined an offer apparently so advantageous to himself 

 at a time when he needed money, is an evidence of the rigid scrutiny 

 to which he subjected all his actions. None but his most intimate 

 friends knew of the costs he often paid to maintain his freedom 

 of mental action. They were met without a murmur. But in their 

 payment he doubtless drew largely on that vital energy, without 

 which long life is impossible. His dearest friend said of him, " his 

 self-sacrificing devotion cost him his life." 



But, under the stern repression lay a child-like, affectionate 

 nature. He was not happy unless he had one or more of his family 

 with him ; he was continually writing to the absent ones. His 

 domestic letters contain full accounts of how he lived, whom he met, 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



and of his enthusiasm for his discoveries. Those who knew him 

 only as a scientist, had but little conception of the spirit that actuated 

 him. His work was not a series of merely intellectual achievements, 

 but back of it all lay the feeling that he was bringing something 

 bright and interesting from the outside world to adorn the home. 



His affection for kin extended to his friends. His relations with 

 Prof. Baird were almost those of a son. His anxiety and distress at 

 Prof. Baird's last illness found expression in all the letters he wrote 

 at that time. As is common with such natures, his sense of justice 

 was keen, though no instance can be shown in which his indignation 

 was not excited by the general sense of wrong implied in the .situa- 

 tion rather than by any personal feeling. 



Dr. Ryder's religious training was that of the strict orthodox 

 Christian faith as expressed in the teachings of the Mennonites. 

 His paternal grandmother who directed his education was a woman 

 of deep piety. For the faith of his parents he always entertained 

 the profoundest respect, and at least toward the latter part of hi3 

 life was inclined to return to it. At the age of eighteen he studied 

 the Bible closely ; and, ever afterward, no matter how limited his 

 travelling effects, a copy of the New Testament was always among 

 them. Though, as shown by his letters, he departed from the ten- 

 ets of his early education, one cannot doubt that he retained all the 

 force of a severe mental and moral discipline that such teaching 

 implies. He was faithful in friendship; singularly frank and sin- 

 cere in disposition ; and disliked violent language, dispute or critic- 

 ism. He was always severe to himself, but sacrificing in spirit to 

 those whom he loved. 



While a Jessup Fund student he became a devoted listener to the 

 Rev. Mr. Mangasarian, an Armenian preacher, who, at that time, 

 held a pulpit in a Presbyterian church in Philadelphia, but who 

 afterward became a leader in an independent organization allied to 

 the Society of Ethical Culture. In speaking of Mangasarian in one 

 of his letters, Dr. Ryder uses the following language : " He has all 

 the charm of the finished orator combined with rationalism and 

 advanced evolution." Ryder greatly admired Emerson. He spoke 

 of him as "the sanest man of the nineteenth century." In writing 

 to a friend who was in mental distress, he advised him to read Emer- 

 son. He carried his admiration even to matters of scientific import. 

 In his last paper he quotes from this writer the saying: "To a 

 sound judgment the most abstract truth is the most practical."' He 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



was much influenced by the teachings of the Stoics. " I would 

 strongly advise you," said he to a friend, "to get hold of the 

 thoughts of Marcus Aurelius, when you are most provoked or vexed 

 in spirit, and take their lessons to heart. Epictetus will do equally 

 well, only I think Marcus is calculated to humble and content a 

 man." His letters contain many expressions of trust in an infinite 

 beneficence, and he would have agreed with Epictetus as to " whither 

 dost thou tend after death, that is to nothing dreadful, but to a 

 place from whence thou earnest, to things friendly and akin to thee." 

 We admire Ryder not so much for what he accomplished as for 

 the indomitable spirit that actuated him. With imperfect equip- 

 ment, with engrossing occupation, and — for much of his intellectual 

 life at least — with impaired health, he attempted the solution of the 

 most difficult problems. It is not for us to consider in what degree 

 he succeeded. Had Bacon, Franklin or Darwin died at forty-three, 

 or had their days been absorbed as his had been, in cares and the 

 routine of task work, how much less would have been their achiev- 

 ments ! It is enough for us to know that we are studying in Ryder's 

 life phenomena of a mind of the first order, and that we have lost 

 by his death one of the brightest of the group of workers to which 

 he belonged. 



THE PUBLISHED SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF JOHN A. RYDER. 



BY H. F. MOORE, PH. D. 



This bibliography wa3 originally prepared for the Proceedings of 

 the Ryder Memorial Meeting but the committee having that publi- 

 cation in charge pointed out that the importance of Dr. Ryder's 

 work demanded for it greater publicity than that medium would 

 afford. It was suggested that it would be most fitting to publish it 

 with the preceding memoir. 



The list of papers given is supposed to be complete, being pre- 

 pared partly from memoranda left by Dr. Ryder and partly by 

 research in the bibliographies of the Zoological Record and of the 

 several journals as well as in the sources of original publication. 



The citations, with one or two exceptions, have been verified, and 

 the appended notes are partly from the Zoological Record, partly 

 Dr. Ryder's and partly by the compiler. The list is given under 

 three heads : Original Research, comprising 215 titles ; Descriptions 

 of New Scientific Apparatus, 4 titles; and Translations and Re- 

 views, 59 titles ; a grand total of 278 papers published between 

 1877 and 1895. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ORIGINAL RESEARCH. 



1 — On the laws of digital reduction. Amer. Nat., Oct., 1877, 

 pp. 603-607. (Points out the modes of modification of the digits 

 in response to the methods of use in the different forms of mamma- 

 lia). 



2 — On the evolution and homologies of the incisors of the horse. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1877, pp. 152-154, 4 figs, in text. 

 (Traces the history of the "pit" or "mark" in the incisors from 

 the early equine forms to the existing domestic horse). 



3 — Note on the color variation in mammals. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1877, pp. 272-273. (Discusses the probable causes 

 which lead to a disturbance of the symmetry of coloration observed 

 in wild animals when brought under the influence of domestication, 

 assigning as that cause the protection which they receive under the 

 latter, as a result of which asymmetrical and parti-colored individ- 

 uals are protected and preserved to perpetuate their peculiarities, 

 wild individuals of that character the more readily becoming the 

 prey of enemies). 



4 — On the growth of Cocculus indicus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1877, pp. 284-285. (Points out the habit or tendency of the 

 terminal part of the newer apical growth to twine). 



5 — The significance of the diameters of the incisors in rodents. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1877, pp. 314-318, 1 fig. in text. 

 (Points out the fact that the greatest diameter is in the line of great- 

 est stress and is correlated with increased use). 



6 — A dog with supernumerary toes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., 1877, p. 321. 



7 — On the mechanical genesis of tooth forms. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1878, pp. 45-80, 11 figs, in text. (This paper points 

 out for the first time the correlation existing between the forms of 

 the crowns of the teeth in the various groups of mammalia and the 

 manner and direction in which the jaws are used to bring stress 

 upon the teeth). 



8 — On Polyxenes fasciculatus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1878, p. 223. 



9 — Description of a new species of Smynthurus. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1878, p. 335, 1 fig. in text. Smynthurus qvadri- 

 maculatus sp. nov. 



10 — On the form of the stapes in Dipodomi/s. Amer. Nat., 1878, 

 p. 125. 



11 — On like mechanical (structural) conditions as producing 

 like morphological effects. Amer. Nat., 1878, pp. 157-160. 



12 — Discovery of two remarkable genera of minute myriapodsin 

 Fairmount Park (Polyxenes and Pawopus). Amer. Nat., 1 S 7 V . 

 pp. 557-558. 



13 — Bees gathering honey from the Catalpa. Amer. Nat., 1879, 

 p. 648. 



14 — A monstrous frog. Amer. Nat., 1878, pp. 751-7.V2. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



15 — The mechanical genesis of tooth forms. Dental Cosmos, 

 XX, 1878, pp. 465-472. Abstract by Dr. C. N. Pierce of " On 

 the mechanical genesis of tooth forms." Proceedings of the Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1878, pp. 45-80, 3 figs. 



16 — Addenda to etiological views expressed in a paper " On the 

 mechanical genesis of tooth forms." Dental Cosmos, XX, 1878, pp. 

 472-474. 



17 — The gigantic extinct armadillos and their peculiarities, with 

 a restoration. Popular Science Monthly, XIII, 1878, pp. 139-145, 

 4 figs, in text. (Discusses the mechanical genesis, degeneration and 

 coalescence of vertebral centra). 



18 — Morphological notes on the limbs of the Amphiumidse as in- 

 dicating a possible synonymy of the supposed genera. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, pp. 14-15. (Points out the variation in the 

 number of digits in the same specimen, rendering the genus Murce- 

 nopsis untenable). 



19 — Further notes on the mechanical genesis of tooth forms. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, pp. 47-51, 1 fig. in text. 



20 — Notice of a new pauropod. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1879, p. 139. 



21 — Description of a new species of Chirocephalus. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, pp. 148-149, 3 figs, in text. {Chirocephalus 

 holmanii sp. nov.). 



22 — Honey glands on Catalpa leaves. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1879, p. 161. 



23 — The larva of Eurypauropus spinosus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 1879, p. 164. 



24 — Description of a new branchipod. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1879, pp. 200-202, 1 fig. (Streptocephalus sealii, sp. nov.). 



25 — The gemmule vs. the plastidule as the ultimate physical 

 unit of living matter. Amer. Nat., 1879, pp. 12-20. 



26 — On the origin of bilateral symmetry and the numerous seg- 

 ments of the soft rays of fishes. Amer. Nat., 1879, pp. 41-43. 



27 — Ryder on the mechanical genesis of tooth forms. Amer. 

 Nat., 1879, pp. 446-449. (Abstract with comments by Prof. E. D. 

 Cope, of" On the mechanical genesis of tooth forms." Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1878, pp. 45-80. And " Further notes on the 

 mechanical genesis of tooth forms." Loc. cit., 1879, pp. 47-51). 



28 — On the destructive nature of the boring sponge, with obser- 

 vations on its gemmules or eggs. Amer. Nat., 1879, pp. 279-283. 



29 — Strange habitat of a barnacle on a garpike. Amer. Nat., 

 1879, p. 453. (Platylepas decorata Darw. on Lepidosteus). 



30 — An account of a new genus of minute pauropod myriapods 

 (Eurypauropus spinosus). Amer. Nat., 1879, pp. 603-612, 1 pi. and 

 2 figs, in text. fEurypauropodidee, fam. nob. Eurypauropus spin- 

 osus gen. et. sp. nov.). 



31 — Successive appearance of Chirocephalus and Streptocephalus 

 in the same pond. Amer. Nat., 1879, p. 703. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



32 — A third locality for Eurypauropus. Amer. Nat., 1879, pp. 

 703-704. 



33 — A probable new species of Phytoptus or Gall-mite. Amer. 

 Nat., 1879, pp. 704-705, 1 fig. in text. 



34 — The psorosperms found in Aphredoderus say anus. Amer. 

 Nat., 1880, pp. 211-212, 6 figs, in text. 



35 — Scolopet}drella as the type of a new order of articulates. 

 Amer. Nat., 1880, pp. 375-376 (Symphyla). 



36 — Note on a larval Lithobius-like myriapod. Amer. Nat., 1880, 

 p 376. 



37— Triehopetalum. Amer. Nat., 1880, p. 376. 



38 — Ichthydium ocellatum. Amer. Nat., 1880, p. 674. 



39 — On the course of the intestine in the oyster. Amer. Nat., 

 1880, pp. 674-675. 



40 — Phosphorescence of very young fishes. Amer. Nat., 1880, p. 

 675. 



41 — On the occurrence of Freia producta Wright in the Chesa- 

 peake Bay. Amer. Nat., 1880, pp. 810-811. 



42 — Rhipidodendron splendidum. Amer. Nat., 1880, p. 811. (The 

 first notice of this monad in American fresh-waters). 



43 — A pale variety of Polyxenes fascicula&us. Amer. Nat., 1880, 

 pp. 811-812. 



44 — On Camaraphysema, a new type of sponge. Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., Ill, 1880, pp. 269-272, 1 pi. * (Camaraphysema obscura gen. 

 et sp. nov.). 



45 — List of the North American species of myriapods belonging 

 to the family of the Lysiopetalidae, with a description of a blind 

 form from Luray Cave, Virginia. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.. Ill, 1880, 

 pp. 524-529. ("Describes Zygonopus whitei, gen. et sp. nov.). 



46 — The structure, affinities and species ofSco/oj" ivh-> Hi. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1881, pp. 79-86, 2 figs, in text. (Scohpen- 

 drella gratiae sp. nov.). 



47 — Occurrence of the same species of Protozoon on both sides of 

 the Atlantic. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1881, pp. 442-443. (The 

 first record of the occurrence of Licnophora cohnii Clap, on the 

 west side of the Atlantic). 



48— A valuable edible Mollusk of the West Coast. Bull. D. S. 

 Fish Coram, 1,1881, p. 21. 



49 — Preliminary notice of the more important scientific results 

 obtained from a studv of the embryology of Fishes. Bull. U. S. Fish 

 Comm., 1, 1881, pp. 22-23. 



50 — Notes on the development, spinning habits and structure of 

 the four-spined stickleback {Ap> ties quadroons). Bull. U. S. Fish 

 Coram., 1, 1881, p. 24-2!). (Points out the existence of a pouch in 

 the male which supplies a viscid material to be drawn out into 

 threads which are wound around plants to form a nest. This paper 

 gives the first intimation of the true source of the material of which 

 nests of the Gasterosteidae are woven). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



51 — Development of the Spanish mackerel (Cybium maculatum). 

 Bull. U. S. Fish. Coram., 1, 1881, pp. 135-172, 4 pis. 



52 — On the retardation of the development of the ova of the shad 

 (Alma sapidissima), with observations on the egg fungus and bac- 

 teria. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1,1881, pp. 177-190. Including an 

 appendix on the histological rationale of retardation, also in Rep. 

 U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1881, pp. 795-811. (2ded. revised). 



53 — A contribution to the development and morphology of the 

 lophibranchiates {Hippocampus antiquorum, the sea-horse). Bull. 

 U. S. Fish Comm., 1, 1881, pp. 191-199,1 pi. 



54 — The micropvle of the egg of the white perch. Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Coram., 1, 1881, p. 282. 



55 — Development of the silver gar (Belou> longirostris), with ob- 

 servations on the genesis of the blood in embryo fishes, and a com- 

 parison of fish ova with those of other vertebrates. Bull. U. S. Fish 

 Coram., 1, 1881, pp. 283-301, 3 pis. 



56 — On the nuclear cleavage-figures developed during the seg- 

 mentation of the germinal disk of the egg of the salmon. Bull. U. 

 S. Fish Comm., 1, 1881, pp. 335-339, 1 pi. 



57 — Notes on the breeding, food and green color of the ovster. 

 Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1, 1881, pp. 403-419. 



58 — Additional observations on the retardation of the develop- 

 ment of the ova of the shad. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1, 1881, pp. 

 422-424. 



59 — The protozoa and protophytes considered as the primary or 

 indirect source of the food of fishes. Bull. U. S. Fish Coram., 1, 

 1881, pp. 236-251 ; and Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1881, 

 pp. 755-770. (2d ed. revised). 



60 — Notes on some of the early stages of development of the clam, 

 or mannanose {Mya arenaria Linn.). Report of T. B. Ferguson, a 

 Commissioner of Fisheries of Maryland, for 1881, pp. 81-91, 11 figs. 



61 — An account of experiments in oyster-culture and observations 

 relating thereto, made at St. Jerome's Creek, Md., during the sum- 

 mer of 1880. Report of T. B. Ferguson, a Commissioner of Fisher- 

 ies of Maryland for 1881, 15 figs, in text. Appendix A., pp. 1-64 

 and 76-80 (First Series). 



62 — Structure and ovarian incubation of the top minnow (Zy- 

 gonectes). Forest and Stream, Aug. 18, 1881. (The species was 

 afterwards determined to be Gambusia patruelis, and the subject was 

 treated of more fully in No. 65 of this bibliography). 



63 — Incubation of shad eggs in brackish or sea-water. Sea- 

 world, Fishing Gazette and Packer's Journal, Wednesday, Oct. 12, 

 1881. 



64 — Observations on the species of planarians parasitic on Limu- 

 lus. Amer. Nat., 1882, pp. 48-51, 10 figs, in text, of egg-capsules, 

 embryos and adult. 



65 — Structure and ovarian incubation of Gambvsia patruelis, a 

 top-minnow. Amer. Nat., 1882, pp. 109-118. (Describes the 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



mode of viviparous development of the species and points out the 

 early absence of an egg membrane and the existence of an opening 

 in the ovarian follicle comparable to a micropyle). 



66 — Additional note on the egg-cases of planarians ectoparasitic 

 on Limulus. Amer. Nat., 1882, p. 142-143. 



67 — Synopsis of the Scolopendrellidae. Proc. IT. S. Nat. Mus., 

 V, 1882, p. 234. Old genus Scolopendrella subdivided into 1. Scuti- 

 gerella gen. nov. sp. 1, S. gratiae Ryder; sp. 2, S. immacalata New- 

 port. 2. Scolopendrella Gerv. sp. 1, microcalpa Muhr; sp. 2, 

 notacantha Gerv. 



68 — A contribution to the embryography of osseous fishes, with 

 special reference to the development of the cod, Gadtis morrhtn. 

 Rep. of U. S. Comm. of Fish and Fisheries, 1882, pp. 455-605, 12 

 plates, 11 figs, in text. 



69 — Preliminary notice on some points in the minute anatomv of 

 the oyster. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., II, 1882, pp. 135-137. (Points 

 out the almost complete absence of connective tissues in tne body- 

 mass of the young " spat "). 



70 — Observations on the absorption of the yelk, the food, feeding 

 and development of embryo fishes, comprising some investigations 

 conducted at the Central Hatchery, Armorv Building, Washington, 

 D. C, in 1882. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., II, 1882, pp. 179-205, 1 

 fig. in text. 



71 — The microscopic sexual characteristics of the American, 

 Portuguese and common edible oyster of Europe compared. Bull. 

 U. S. Fish Comm., II, 1882, pp. 205-215. Reprinted in Ann. Mag. 

 Nat. Hist., Vol. XII, 1883, pp. 37-48. 



72 — Note on the organ of Bojauus in Ostrea virginica Gmelin. 

 Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., II, 1882, pp. 345-347. 



73 — On the mode of fixation of the fry of the oyster. Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Comm., II, 1882, pp. 383-387, 1 pi. (Points out the uniform- 

 ity with which fixation of the fry occurs by the edge of the left 

 mantle border, etc.). 



74 — On the preservation of embryonic materials and small organ- 

 isms, together with hints upon embedding and mounting sections 

 serially. Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1882, pp. 607-625*. 



75 — An account of experiments in oyster culture and observa- 

 tions relating thereto. (Second Series). Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish 

 and Fisheries, 1882, pp.. 763-778. (Journal of experiments con- 

 ducted at St. Jerome's Creek, Md., in 1882. Mode of fixation of 

 oyster spat determined). 



T* » — The metamorphosis and post-larval stages of development of 

 the oyster. Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries. 1882, pp. 779- 

 791, 3 figs, in text. (Points out the mode in which the veliger of 

 Ostrea is metamorphosed into the spat and adult, and the rotation 

 of t lie body mass). 



77 — Supplementary note on the coloration of the blood-corpusclea 

 of the oyster. Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries. 1882, pp. 801- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



805. (Shows that the pigment which causes the coloration is prob- 

 ably phycocyanin). 



78 — A summary of recent progress in our knowledge of the cul- 

 ture, growth and anatomy of the oyster. Forest and Stream, Nov. 

 30, 1882, Vol. XIX, pp. 351-352. 



79 — Notes on the breeding, food and cause of green color of the 

 oyster. Trans. Amer. Fish Cult. Assoc. Eleventh Ann. Meet.. X. 

 Y., 1882, pp. 57-59. Also Forest and Stream, 1882, May 25th, 

 pp. 331 and 332, and June 1st, pp. 349-351. 



80 — On the green color of the oyster. Amer. Nat., 1833, pp. 86- 

 88. 



81— A correction. Amer. Nat., 1883, pp. 98-99. 



82 — Theodore Gill and John A. Ryder. Diagnoses of new genera 

 of nemichthyoid eels. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VI, 1883, pp. 260- 

 262. 



83 — Theodore Gill and John A. Ryder. On the anatomy and 

 relations of the Eurypharyngidae. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VI, 1883, 

 pp. 262-273. 



84 — On the thread-bearing eggs of the silversides (Menidia). 

 Bull. IT. S. Fish Comm, III, 1883, pp. 193-196, 4 figs, in text. 



85 — Preliminary notice of the development and breeding habits 

 of the Potomac cat-fish Amiurus albidus (Le Sueur) Gill. Bull. U. 

 S. Fish Comm., Ill, 1883, pp. 225-230. 



86 — Rearing oysters from artificially fertilized eggs, together with 

 notes on pond-culture, etc. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., Ill, 1883, pp. 

 281-294. New Zealand Journal of Science, I, No. 10, 1883, pp. 

 455-459. 



87 — Report on the abnormal appearance of some shad eggs from 

 a fish kept in confinement at Havre de Grace, Maryland. Bull. U. 

 S. Fish Comm., Ill, 1883, p. 440. 



88 — Rearing oysters from artificially impregnated eggs. Science, 

 I, 1883, pp. 60-62. 



89 — The law of nuclear displacement, and its significance in em- 

 bryology. Science, I, 1883, pp. 273-277. 



90 — Protozoan parasites of the oyster. Science, I, 1883, pp. 567 

 -568. 



91 — Rearing oysters from artificially fertilized eggs at Stockton, 

 Md. Science, II, 1883, pp. 463-464. 



92— Primitive visual organs. Science, II, 1883, pp. 739-740. 



93 — The nature of heredity. The Monthly Review, Philadelphia, 

 I, 1883, No. 11, pp. 161-164. 



94 — The pedunculated lateral line organs of Gastrostomus. Sci- 

 ence, III, 1884, p. 5. Amer. Nat., 1884, p. 547, 1 fig. 



95 — On the chlorophvlloid granules of Vorticella. Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., VII, 1884, pp. 9-12, 1 fig. in text. 



96 — Theodore Gill and John A. Ryder: On the literature and 

 systematic relations of the saccopharyngoid fishes. Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., VII, 1884, pp. 48-65. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



97 — On the origin of heterocercy and the evolution of the fiiis 

 and fin-rays of fishes. Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1884, 

 pp. 981-1107, pis. 12, 8 figs, in text. 



98 — On a new form of filter or diaphragm to be used in the cul- 

 ture of oysters in ponds. Bull. U. 8. Fish Comm., IV, 1884, pp. 

 17-31, 1 pi. 



99 — On a skin parasite of the cunner (Ctenolabiiis adsper.sa^). 

 Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., IV, 1884, pp. 37-42. 



100 — Journal of operations on the grounds of the Eastern Shore 

 Oyster Company on Chincoteague Bav, near Stockton, Md., during 

 the summer of 1883. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., IV, 1884, pp. 43-47. 



101 — Carp do eat young fishes. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., IV, 



1884, p. 152. 



102 — Report respecting the present condition and future pros- 

 pects at St. Jerome Creek for the work of oyster culture. Bull. U. 

 S. Fish Coram., IV, 1884, pp. 235-237. 



103 — Floats for the so-called fattening of oysters. Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Comm., IV, 1884, pp. 302-303. 



104 — Note on the regeneration of the scales of the German carp. 

 Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., IV, 1884, pp. 345-346. 



105 — On apparatus for collecting oyster spat. Bull. U. S. Fish 

 Coram., IV, 1884, p. 373. 



106— Care of gold fish. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1884, pp. 

 381-382. 



107 — A sketch of the life history of the oyster. U. S. Geological 

 Survey. Fourth Annual Report of J. W. Powell for 1884, IV, pp. 

 317-333. pis. LXXIII-LXXXII. 



108 — On the development of Mo la. Science, IV, Bulletin, Xov. 

 14, 1884, p. v. 



109 — On the morphology and evolution of the tail of osseous fishes. 

 (Abstract). Proc. American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science, Philadelphia meeting, Sept., 1884, Vol. XXXIII, pp. 532 

 -533, 1885. Science, IV, Oct. 31, 1884, pp. 341-342. 



110 — Theodore Gill and John A. Ryder: Note on Eury}>harynx 

 and an allied new genus. Zool. Anzeiger, VII, 1884, pp. 119—123. 



Ill — On the forces which determine the survival of fish embryos. 

 Forest and Stream, Aug. 14, 1884 ; and Transactions of American 

 Fish Cultural Association, 13th Annual Meeting at Washington, 

 .May 13th and 14th, 1884, pp. 195-199. 



112 — A contribution to the lite-history of the oyster (Ostrea vtr- 

 ginica Gmelin, and O. edulis Linn.). Fisheries Industries of the 

 U. S., Vol. II, 4 to, Washington, 1884, 1 pi. pp. 711-750. 



113 — An outline of a theory of the development of the unpaired 

 fins of fishes. Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 90-97, (abstract), 8 figs, in text. 



114 — The development of the ravs of osseous fishes. Amer. Nat.. 



1885, pp. 200-204. 



115 — On the translocation forwards of the rudiments of the pel- 

 vic fins of the embryos of physoclist fishes. Amer. Nat., 1885, 

 pp. 315-317. 



* 




1896.] « NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



116 — On the position of the yolk-blastopore as determined by the 

 size of vitellus. Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 411-415. 



117 — Development of the spines of the anterior dorsal of Gaste- 

 rosteus and Lophius. Amer. Nat., 1885, p. 415. 



118 — On the probable origin, homologies and development of 

 the flukes of cetaceans and sirenians. Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 515- 

 519. 



119 — On the formation of the embryonic axis of the teleostean 

 embryo by the concrescence of the rim of the blastoderm. 1 fig. in 

 text. Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 614-615. 



120 — On the development of the mammary glands of cetacea. 

 Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 616-618. 



121 — On the availability of embryological characters in the clas- 

 sification of the Chordata. Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 815-819 and 903 

 -907. 



122 — On the genesis of the extra terminal phalanges in the cet- 

 acea. Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 1013-1015. 



123 — On the manner in which the cavity of the heart is formed 

 in certain teleosts. Amer. Nat,, 1885, pp. 1015-1017. 



124 — The archistome theory. Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 1115-1121. 



125 — The development and structure of Microhydra Ryderi Potts. 

 Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 1232-1236. 



126 — An exposition of the principles of a rational system of 

 oyster culture, together with an account of a new and practical 

 method of obtaining oyster spat on a scale of commercial import- 

 ance. Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries for 1885, pp. 381-423, 

 3 plates. 



127 — On the development of the cetacea, together with a con- 

 sideration of the probable homologies of the flukes of cetaceans and 

 sirenians. Rep. Comm. Fish and Fisheries 1885, pp. 427-488, 3 

 plates. 



128 — On the development of osseous fishes, including marine 

 and freshwater forms. Rep. Comm. of Fish and Fisheries, 1885, pp. 

 489-604, 30 plates. 



129 — Note on the male organs of the eel. Bull. U. S. Fish 

 Comm., V, 1885, 2 figs, in text, pp. 1-3. 



130 — Directions for collecting embiotocoid fish embrvos. Bull. 

 U. S. Fish Comm., V, 1885, p. 32. 



131 — The rate of growth of oysters at St. Jerome Creek Station. 

 Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., V, 1885, pp. 129-131, 2 figs, in text.^ 



132 — On the development of the mammary glands and genitalia 

 of the cetacea. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., V, 1885, pp. 135-142, 2 

 figs in text. 



133 — On the rate of growth of the common clam, and on a mode 

 of obtaining the young of the giant clams of the Pacific Coast for 

 the purpose of transplanting. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., V, 1885, 

 pp. 174-176. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



134 — On the green coloration of the gills and palps of the clam 

 (Mya armaria). Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., V, 1885, pp. 181-185, 1 

 fig. in text. 



135 — Answers to questions about fattening oysters. Bull. IT. S. 

 Fish. Comm., 1885, p. 416. 



136 — On the development of viviparous osseous fishes. Pro- 

 ceedings of the U. S. National Museum, VIII, 1885, pp. 128-155, 6 

 figs. 



137 — On certain features of the development of the salmon. 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VIII, 1885, pp. 156-162, 1 pi. 



138 — The swimming habits of the sun-fish (Mola mold). Science, 

 VI, 1885, pp. 103-104, 1 fig. 



139 — A new system of oyster-culture. Science, November 27, 

 1885, pp. 465-467. (A practical solution ol the oyster question). 



140 — On some points in microtomy. The American Monthly 

 Microscopic Journal, V, No. 10, October, 1884, pp. 190-191 ; Proc. 

 Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., XXXIII, 1885, pp. 565-566. 



141 — The oyster problem actually solved. A new system of 

 oyster culture. Forest and Stream, Vol. XXV, No. 13, Oct. 22d, 



1885, pp. 249-250. 



142 — The nectar glands of the Catalpa tree. The Pastime, III, 

 No. 7, January, 1885, pp. 8-9. 



143 — Resting position of the oyster. Nature, Nov. 26, 1885, pp. 

 80-81. 



144 — The placentation of the two-toed ant-eater Cyeloturu* di- 

 dactylus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1886. (Cited from Dr. 

 Ryder's notes ; original not found). 



145 — The development of the toad-fish. Amer. Nat,, 1886, pp. 

 77-80. 



146 — The origin of the amnion. Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 179-185. 

 8 figs, in text. 



147 — The development of Anurida maritime. Guerin. Amer. 

 Nat., 1886, pp. 299-302, 1 plate. 



148 — On an unusual relation of the notochord to the intestine in 

 the chick. Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 392-394, 1 fig. 



149 — On the symmetry of the first segmentation furrows of the 

 blastodisk of Elasmobranchii. Amer. Nat,, 1886, pp. 470-473. 2 

 figs. 



150 — The metamorphosis of the American lobster, Homarus 

 americanus H. Milne-Edwards. Amer. Nat., 1886. pp. 739-742. 



151 — The monstrosities observed amongst recently hatched lob- 

 sters. Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 742-743. 



152 — The development of the mud-minnow. Amer. Nat., 1886, 

 pp. 823-824. 



153 — The development of Fundulvs heteroelUus. Amer. Nat., 



1886, p. 824. 



154— Why do certain fish ova float? Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 

 986-987. (Describes the floating egg of Macropodus). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



155 — The origin of the pigment cells which invest the oil-drop in 

 pelagic fish-embryos. Amer. Is at,, 1886, pp. 987-988. 



156 — On the value of the fin-rays and their characteristics of 

 development in the classification of the fishes, together with re- 

 marks on the theory of degeneration. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1886, 

 pp. 71--82. 



157 — Preliminary notice of the development of the toad-fish 

 Batraehus tau. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., VI, 1886, pp. 4-8, 1 pi. 



158 — On the earlier stages of cleavage of the blastodisk of Rata 

 erinacea, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., VI, 1886, pp. 8-10, 1 fig. in text. 



159 — On the intra-ovarian gestation of the red-fish (Seba4es 

 morinus). Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., VI, 1886, pp. 92-94. 



160 — A theory of the origin of placental types and on certain 

 vestigiary structures in the placental of the mouse, rat and field- 

 mouse. Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 780-784. 



161 — The inversion of the germinal layers in He^eromys. Amer. 

 Nat., 1887, pp. 863-864, 3 figs, in text. 



162 — Vestiges of a zonary decidua in the mouse. Amer. Nat,, 

 1887, pp. 1037-1038. 



163 — The rudimentary pineal eye of chelonians. Amer. Nat., 

 1887, pp. 1126-1127. (By Geo.' Fetterolf under Prof. Ryder's 

 directions). 



164 — On a tumor in the oyster. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1887, pp. 25-27. 



165 — On the homologies and early history of the limbs of ver- 

 tebrates. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1887," pp. 344-368. 



166 — On the development of the common sturgeon. Amer. Nat., 

 July, 1888, pp. 659-660. (The first published account of the lar- 

 vae of Acipenser sturio developed from artificially fertilized eggs ob- 

 tained by Caesarian section of the abdomen of the female). 



167 — On the blunt-nosed sturgeon and the sense organs and 

 canals of the head of Serrawus abripinnis. University Medical 

 Magazine (Philadelphia), December, 1888, pp. 175-177. 



168 — The sturgeons and sturgeon industries of the eastern coast 

 of the United States, with an account of experiments bearing upon 

 sturgeon culture. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1888, pp. 231-281, 

 plates XXXVII-LIX. 



169 — Report of operations at the laboratory of the United States 

 Fish Commission, Wood's Hole, Mass., during the summer of 1888. 

 Rep. U. S. Fish Comm., 1888, pp. 513-522. 



170 — On the fore and aft poles, the axial differentiation and a 

 possible anterior sensory apparatus of Volvox minor. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1889, pp. 138-140. Reprint in Ann. and Mag. 

 Nat. Hist. (6), IV, p. 253. 



171 — Heterocercy in batrachia. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1889, p. 155. (In Amblystoma larvae). 



172 — The hvpertrophied hairs on Ampelopsls. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1889, p. 158. 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



173 — The byssus of the young of the common clam (Mya arena- 

 via). Amer. Nat., 1889, pp. 65--67 ; abstr. in Jour. Roy. Mic Soc, 

 1889, p. 375. (The byssus gland is at the base of the foot and the 

 clams are bound together partially by byssus threads and partly by 

 fibres from Ascidians). 



174 — The polar differentiation of Volvox and specialization of 

 possible anterior sense organs. Amer. Nat, 1889, pp. 218-221. 



175 — The quadrate placenta of the common red squirrel. Amer. 

 Nat., 1889, pp. 271-274. 



176 — The origin and meaning of sex. Amer. Nat., 1889, pp. 

 501-508. 



177 — Notes on the development of Ampullaria depressa Say. 

 Amer. Nat., 1889, pp. 735-737. (Description of eggs, etc.). 



178 — Karyokinesis in larval Amblystoma. Amer. Nat., 1889, 

 pp. 827-829. (Pointing out the clearness of the karyokinetic pro- 

 cesses). 



179 — On a brood of larval Amphiuma. Amer. Nat., 1889, pp. 

 927-928. 



180 — The acquisition and loss of food-yolk and origin of the cal- 

 careous egg-shell. Amer. Nat., 1889, pp. 928-933. (Interpreta- 

 tion of the various ways in which surplus nutriment is elaborated 

 into numerous small eggs or into fewer and larger ones, or diverted 

 to the embryo itself). 



181 — The phylogeny of the sweat glands. Proc. Amer. Phil. 

 Soc, 1889, pp. 534-540. 



182 — Proofs of the effects of habitual use in the modification of 

 animal organisms. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1889, pp. 541-549. 

 (The principle of over-nutrition was at once the cause of sexuality, 

 the struggle for existence and the direct means of evolution of all 

 larval forms. Over-nutrition, resulting in sexuality, was the means 

 of heaping up potential physiological energy in the egg, so as to ren- 

 der larval development and a larval struggle for existence a possi- 

 bility. The mainspring of evolution or its motive force is to be 

 sought in sexuality). 



183 — A physiological theory of the calcification of the skeleton. 

 Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1889, pp. 550-558. 



184 — Evolution of the specialized vertebral axis of the higher 

 types. University Med. Mag., April, 1889. 



185 — The function and histology of the yolk-sac of the young 

 toad-fish (Batrachus tan). Proc. Acad. Nat." Sci. Phila., 1890, pp. 

 407-408. 



186 — A physiological hypothesis of heredity and variation. 

 Amer. Nat., 1890, pp. 85-92. 



187 — The continuity of the primary matrix of the scales and the 

 actinotrichia of teleosts. Amer. Nat., 1890, pp. 489-491. 



188 — The eye, ocular muscles and lachrymal glands of the shrew 

 mole (Blarina talpoides Gray). Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1890, pp. 

 16-18. (Calling attention, among other points, to the slight attach- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



merit of the eye-ball and the great development of the lachrymal 

 gland). 



189 — The origin of sex through cumulative integration and the 

 relation of sexuality to the genesis of species. Proc. Amer. Phil. 

 Soc, 1890, pp. 109-159. 



190 — On the kinds of motion in the ultimate units of contractile 

 living matter. Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., Vol. XL, 1891, p. 328. 



191 — On two new and undescribed methods of contractility man- 

 ifested by filaments of protoplasm. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 



1891, pp. 10-12. (Fixed and reversible spiral contraction in Vor- 

 ticella and in Trypanosoma halbianii respectively). 



192 — An attempt to illustrate some of the primary laws of me- 

 chanical evolution. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1891, pp. 62-70. 



193 — Sherwood and Ryder. Abnormal duplication of urosome 

 in Rana mtesbiana. Amer. Nat., 1891, pp. 740-742. (Remark 

 upon bifid-tailed tadpoles). 



194 — Notes on the development of Engystoma. Amer. Nat., 1891, 

 pp. 838-840. 



195 — On the mechanical genesis of the scales of fishes. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1892, pp. 219-224, 3 figs. Reprint in Ann. 

 & Mag. Nat. Hist., XI, pp. 243-248. 



196 — Diffuse pigmentation of the epidermis of the oyster due to 

 prolonged exposure to the light; regeneration of shell and loss of 

 adductor muscle. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1892, pp. 350-351. 

 (Recording observations of Prof. R. C. Schiedt). 



197 — Hermaphroditism and viviparity of the oysters of the north- 

 west coast of the United States. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1892, 

 pp. 351-352. (Recorded in behalf of Prof. R. C. Schiedt). 



198 — On the cause of the greening of the oyster and its presumed 

 algous endo-parasites. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1892, p. 352. 



199 — The principle of the conservation of energy in biological 

 evolution : a reclamation and critique. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1892, pp. 455-468. 



200 — A geometrical representation of the relative intensity of the 

 conflict between organisms. Amer. Nat., 1892, pp. 923-929. 



201 — Cholera and flies. Entomological News, Oct., 1892, pp. 

 210-211. (Reprint from Public Ledger, Phila.). 



202 — The inheritance of modifications due to disturbances of the 

 early stages of development, especially in the Japanese domesticated 

 races of gold-carp. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,, 1893, pp. 75-94. 



203 — The vascular respiratory mechanism of the vertical fins of 

 the viviparous Embiotocidae. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1893, 

 pp. 95-99, 1 fig. 



204 — Energy as a factor in organic evolution. Proc. Amer. 

 Phil. Soc, 1893, XXXI, pp. 192-203. (Upon ergogeny, kineto- 

 geny and statogeny, with an appendix giving a list of the author's 

 papers on ergogenetic development of morphological characters — 25 

 titles). 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



205 — The mechanical genesis of the form of the fowl's egg. Proc. 

 Amer. Phil. Soc, 1893, XXXI, pp. 203-209, 1 fig. 



206 — The adaptive forms and vortex motion of the substance of 

 the red blood-corpuscles of vertebrates. Proc. Amer. Phil. iSoc, 

 XXXII, No. 143, May, 1893, pp. 272-275. (Read at the meeting 

 commemorating the 150th anniversary of the foundation of the So- 

 ciety). 



207 — The correlations of the volumes and surfaces of organisms. 

 Contrib. Zool. Lab. Univ. of Penna., Vol. I, No. 1, 1893, pp. 3-36, 

 1 plate. 



208 — The growth of Euglena viridis when constrained principally 

 to two dimensions of space. Contrib. Zool. Lab. Univ. of Penna., 

 Vol. I, No. 1, 1893, pp. 37-50, 1 plate. 



209 — The synthetic museum of comparative anatomy as a basis 

 for a comprehensive system of research. Contrib. Zool. Lab. 

 Univ. of Penn., 1893. Separate, pp. 1-15. (A valuable paper 

 giving an outline of a museum adopted to modern methods of re- 

 search ; now being realized, in part, at the Wistar Institute, Univ. 

 of Penna.). 



210 — Biological research in relation to the fisheries. Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Comm., 1893, pp. 59-63. (Read before the World's Fisheries 

 Congress, Chicago, 1893). 



211 — Ryder and Pennington, Mary E. Non-sexual conjugation 

 of the nuclei of the adjacent cells of an epithelium. Anat. Anzeiger, 

 11, Aug., 1894, pp. 759-764. 



212 — Dynamical evolution. Biological Lectures Marine Biol. 

 Lab., Vol. II, Boston, 1894. 



213 — An arrangement of the retinal cells in the eyes of fishes 

 partially simulating compound eyes. Proc. Acad. Nat. ScL Phila., 

 1895, pp. 161-166, 2 figs, in text. 



214 — The true nature of the so-called " nettle-cells" of Paramoo- 

 cium. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1895, pp. 167-170. 



215 — A dynamical hypothesis of inheritence. Biological Lectures 

 Marine Biol. Lab., Vol. Ill, Boston, 1895. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SCIENTIFIC APPARATUS. 



216 — Holman's new compressorium and moist chamber. Amer. 

 Nat., 1880, p. 691. Also in Journal of the Franklin Institute. 



217 — Ryder's automatic microtome. Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 298- 

 302, 2 figs. (Description of rapid cutting section instrument in- 

 volving new principles of micrometric adjustment). 



218 — A new paraffine embedding apparatus. Amer. Nat.. 1887, 

 pp. 597-600. 



219 — A new method of entrapping, killing, embedding and 

 orienting infusoria and other small objects for the microtome. Amer. 

 Nat., 1895, pp. 194-198, 1 fig. in text'. 






1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



TRANSLATIONS AND REVIEWS. 



220 — Notes on the recently described monotremes. Amer. Nat., 



1878, pp. 320-321. 



221 — A remarkable new genus of giant sloths. Amer. Nat., 



1879, pp. 590-592. (Review of " Beskriivelse af Hovedskallen af 

 et Kaempedovendyr, Grypotherium darwini, fra Laplata-Landenes 

 plejstocene Dannelser." Af. J. Reinhardt. in Vidensk. Sel. Skr. 5te 

 Raekke. Naturv. og Math. Afd. XII, 4, 4to pis. II, Kjobenhavn, 

 1879). 



New sub fams. proposed : Aphelorhinse, Diarhinse. 



222 — A new species of Coelodon. Amer. Nat., 1879, p. 592. 

 (Review of " Kaempedovendyr Slaegten Coelodon." Af. J. Rein- 

 hardt, 4 to p. 257-349, pis. 7. Ext. Vidensk. Selsk.Skr. 5te Raekke, 

 Naturvidensk. og Math. Afd., XII, 3, Copenhagen, 1878). 



223 — Growth as a function of cells. Amer. Nat., 1880, p. 44-45. 

 (Review of " Growth as a function of cells," by Chas. Sedgwick 

 Minot. Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1878-79, Vol. XX.pt. II, p. 190). 



224 — On the genitalia of male eels and their sexual characters, 

 by S. Th. Cattie (Translation). Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Ill, 1880, 

 pp. 280-284. 



225 — On the mature male sexual organs of the conger-eel (Conger 

 vulgaris), with some observations on the male of the common eel 

 (Anguilla vulgaris). By Otto Hermes. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 



I, 1881, pp. 126-130. (Translation of "Ueber reife mannliche Ge- 

 schlechtstheile des Seeaals [Conger vulgaris] und einige Notizen uber 

 den mannlichen Flussaal. Angui 11a vulgaris"). Zool. Anzeiger, 1881, 

 No. 74, pp. 39-44). 



226 — On Semper's method of making dry preparations. Proc. U. 

 S. Nat. Mus., 1881, pp. 224-225. 



227 — A contribution to our knowledge of the development of the 

 ovster (Ostrea edulis), bv Dr. R. Horst. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 



II, 1882, pp. 159-167, 12 figs. (Translation of " Bijdrage tot de 

 Kennis van de Ontwikkelingsgeschiedenis van de Oester (Ostrea 

 edulis)" in Tijdschr. d. Ned. Dierk. Vereen. dl. VI, 1882). Ab- 

 stract in Zool. Anzeiger, 3d April, 1882. 



228 — Report relative to the generation and artificial fecundation 

 of oysters, addressed to the Minister of Marine and Colonies by M. 

 Bouchon-Brandely. Bull. U. S. Fish. Comm., II, 1882, pp. 319- 

 338. (Translation of "Rapport relatif a la generation et a la fe- 

 condation artificielle des huitres, addresse au ministre de la marine 

 et des colonies, in Journ. officiel de la Republique Francaise," Decem- 

 ber 16-17, 1882, pp. 6762-6764 and 6778-6782) with notes by the 

 translator. 



229 — On the sexuality of the common oyster (O. edulis) and 

 that of the Portuguese oyster (O. angulata). Artificial fecundation 

 of the Portuguese oyster, by M. Bouchon-Brandely. Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Comm., II, 1882, pp. 339-341. (Translation of " De la sexual- 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ite chez l'huitre ordinaire [0. eduli<~\ et chez l'huitre Portugaise 

 (0. angulata). Fecondation artificielle de l'huitre Portugaise," in 

 Comptes Rendus de L'Academie des Sciences, XCV, No. 5 [31 

 Juillet, 1882], pp. 256-259, Paris, 1882). 



230 — Researches on the generative organs of the oyster ( 0. edulis), 

 by P. P. C. Hoek. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., II, 1882, pp. 343, 

 (Translation of " Recherches sur les organes genitaux des huitres." 

 par M. P. P. C. Hoek, Comptes rendus des seances de l'Academie 

 des Sciences, Paris, November 6, 1882). 



231 — A simple test to learn if fish ova are impregnated, bv Prof. 

 Nussbaum. Bull. U. S. Fish Coram., II, 1882, pp. 347-348. 

 (Translation from Deutsche Fischerei Zeitung, VI, No. 5, Jan. 30, 

 1883. 



232 — On the cause of the greening of oysters. Rep. U. S. Comm. 

 Fish and Fisheries, 1882, pp. 793-801. (A translation of "Notice 

 sur la cause du verdissement des huitres." Par M. Puysegur, in 

 Rev. Maritime et Coloniale, pp. 11,1 pi. Paris, Berger-Levrault 

 et Cie, 1880). 



233 — Development of the membrane-bones of the skull of the pike. 

 Science, I, 1883, p. 513. 



234— Oyster culture in Holland. Science, II, 1883, p. 79. 



235 — The development of the viviparous edible oyster. Amer. 

 Nat., 1885, pp. 317-318. (Review of Dr. Horst's paper). 



238 — The mode of formation and the morphological value of the 

 eggs of Ncpa and Notonecta. Amer. Nat., 1885, pp. 615-616. (Re- 

 view of paper by Ludwig Will). 



237 — The unpaired fins of selachians. Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 

 142-143. (Review of paper bv Dr. Paul Mayer). 



239— The development of Patella. Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 563- 

 564. (Review of paper by Dr. AVm. Patten). 



240 — Professor Selenka on the development of the opossum /' - 

 delphys rirqiniana). Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 394-396. (Translation 

 from Biblog. Centralbl., V, No. 10, 1885, pp. 294-295). 



241 — The development of Dentalium. Amer. Nat., 1886, p. 565. 

 (Review of paper by M. Kowalevsky). 



242 — The development of the Chitonidre or Polyplacophora, 

 Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 565-567. (Review of paper by M. Kowalev- 

 sky). 



243 — The development of the gill in Faseiolaria. Amer. Nat., 

 1886, p. 567. (Review of paper by Dr. H. Leslie Osborn). 



244 — The early development of Ju/us terrestris. Amer. Nat., 

 1886, pp. 662-666. (Review of paper by F. G. Heathcoat, M. A. . 



245 — The development of Agalena naevia. Amer. Nat.. 

 pp. 666-667. (Review of paper bv Win. A. Locv). 



246— Life-history of Thalessema. Amer. Nat., 1886, pp. 988-989. 

 (Review of H. W. Conn's paper). 



247 — The formation of the eggs and development of rotifers. 

 Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 93-95. (Review of G. Tessin's paper 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



248 — The gestation of armadillos. Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 95- 

 96. (Review of von Ihering's paper). 



249 — The ventral suckers or sucking disks of the tadpoles of dif- 

 ferent genera of frogs and toads. Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 263-264. 

 (From Dr. Ryder's notes. Citation not found). 



250 — Haddon's " Introduction to the Study of Embryology." 

 Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 292-293. 



251 — Development of the carnivora. Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 

 394-396. (Review of A. Fleischmann's work). 



252 — Suggestion respecting the epiblastic origin of the segmental 

 duct. Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 587-590. (Review of Prof. A. C. 

 Haddon's paper). 



253 — The development of an eight-limbed vertebrate. Amer. 

 Nat., 1887, pp. 862-863. (Review of S. Watase's paper.) 



254 — Spermatogenesis in mammalia. Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 946- 

 948. (Review of paper by Dr. Carl Benda). 



255 — Development of the Coecilians. Amer. Nat., 1887, pp. 

 1035-1036. (Review of work of Messrs. Sarasin). 



256 — The origin of the segmental duct in elasmobranchs. Amer. 

 Nat., 1887, p. 1037. (Notice of Dr. Beard's work). 



257 — Rudiments of true calcified teeth in the young of Ornitho- 

 rhynehus. Amer. Nat., 1888, pp. 368-369. (Review of paper by 

 E. B. Poultou). 



258 — The ectoblastic origin of the Wolffian duct in the chelonia. 

 Amer. Nat., 1888, p. 369. (Notice of paper by M. Mitsukuri). 



259 — Origin of the Wolffian duct in lacertilia. Amer. Nat., 

 1888, p. 369. (Notice of paper by J. von Perenyi). 



260— The origin of the mamma?. Amer. Nat., 1888, p. 370. (Note 

 upon investigations of W. Haacke). 



261 — The several functions of the enamel organ in the develop- 

 ment of the teeth of mammals, and on the inheritance of mutilations. 

 Amer. Nat., 1888, pp. 547-550. (Review of researches of von 

 Brunn et al). 



262 — Researches upon the development of Comatula. Amer. Nat., 

 1888, pp. 657-659. (Review of paper by Barrois). 



263 — Observations on the development of cephalopods. Amer. 

 Nat., 1888, pp. 754-755. (Review of S. Watase's paper). 



264 — On the development of the calcareous plates of AsteridS. 

 Amer. Nat., 1888, p. 755. (Note on J. Walter Fewkes' work). 



265 — The value in classification of the stages of growth and de- 

 cline with proposals for a new nomenclature. Amer. Nat., 1888, p. 

 755. (Note on A. Hyatt's paper). 



266 — Development of the sea-bass (Sen-ami* atrarius). Amer. 

 Nat., 1888, p. 755. (Note). 



267 — On the primary segmentation of the crerrn-band of insects. 

 Amer. Nat., 1888, pp. 941-942. (Review of Veit Graber's work). 



268 — Development of the peripheral nervous system of verte- 

 brates. Amer. Nat., 1888, pp. 1132-1134. (Review of Dr. Beard's 

 work). 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



269 — A new atlas of embryology. Amer. Nat., 1888, p. 113-4— 

 1135. (Keview of M. Duval's work). 



270 — New studies of the human embryo. Amer. Nat., 1889, pp. 

 171-172. (Review of work of M. C. Phisalix). 



271 — On the development and first traces of the anterior roots of 

 the spinal nerves in selachians. Amer. Nat., 1889, pp. 172-173. 

 (Review of Dohrn's paper). 



272 — The maturation and fertilization of the egg of Petromyzon 

 planed. Amer. Nat., 1889, p. 173. (Review of A. A. Bohm's pa- 

 per). 



273 — The structure of the human spermatozoon. Amer. Nat., 

 1889, pp. 183-184 (Vol. irregularly paged). (Review of E. M. Nel- 

 son's paper). 



274 — Development of Cranaon vulgaris. Amer. Nat., 1889, pp. 

 737-738. (Review of J. W. Kingsley's paper). 



275 — Development of Sepia officinalis. Amer. Nat., 1889, p. 

 738. (Review of M. L. Vialleton's paper). 



276 — Extra-ovarian primordial ova in the human embryo. Amer. 

 Nat., 1889, p. 827. (Review of W. Nagel's paper). 



277 — Placentation of the hedgehog and the phylogeny of the 

 placenta. Amer. Nat., 1890, pp. 376-378. (Review of Hubrecht's 

 paper). 



278 — "A theory of development and heredity," by Henry D. Orr. 

 Amer. Nat., 1894, pp. 154-156. (Review). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



SUMMARY OF NEW LIBERIAN POLYDESMOIDEA. 

 BY O. F. COOK. 



In a preceding paper 1 on the diplopod fauna of Liberia several new 

 species and genera were referred to, of which a list is here given to- 

 gether with such additional diagnostic characters as may be neces- 

 sary for the separation of the various forms from the territory 

 explored. Extended descriptions and plates are in preparation. 

 Ammodesmus granum. 



Locality, Mt. Coffee, a cluster of hills in western Liberia, reach- 

 ing an altitude of about 300 feet, and covered with dense forest. A 

 large part of the other forms were collected in the same vicinity, all 

 except those of which other localities are specified. 



Cenchrodesmus volutus. 



Length about 2 mm., width .65 mm. 

 Campodesmus carbonarius. 



Surface of head and segments covered with rough granules ; first 

 segment scarcely broader than the head, with three transverse rows 

 of coarse tubercles ; second segment broadest of all ; segments with 

 a cluster of three large tubercles on each side of the middle, five 

 smaller scattered tubercles on each side of these, and three tubercles 

 on each of the very broad, decurved carina? ; last segment not con- 

 cealed, rounded at apex, with three broad, blunt, setigerous tuber- 

 cles on each lateral edge ; preanal scale with two long smooth seti- 

 gerous papilla?. Length of male 29 mm., width 5.25 mm.; length 

 of female 32 mm., width 6.5 mm. 



Tropide8mus jugosus. 



Generally similar to the preceding, except that the segments are 

 dorsally ornamented with two transverse rows, each of six short lon- 

 gitudinal carina? ; also the tubercles of the preanal scale are short, 

 not papilliform. Length 28 mm., width 5 mm. ; locality Mt. Coffee 

 and vicinity ; much rarer than Campodesmus, and more inclined to 

 burrow in the ground. 



1 A Xevr Diplopod Fauna in Liberia. American Naturalist, xxx, pp. 413- 

 420, 1896. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Comodesmus lanatus. 



Antennae distinctly clavate ; last segment decurved, the immedi- 

 ate apex small, projecting, truncate ; lateral carina present only as 

 a longitudinal row of large tubercles, above which the tubercles are 

 gradually smaller ; length 8 mm., width 1 mm. 



Thelydesmus dispar. 



Antennae distinctly clavate ; first segment nearly as wide as the 

 second, scarcely concealing the head in front ; segments with four 

 regular transverse rows of conic piliferous granules; carina? moder- 

 ately broad, somewhat narrowed toward the margin, coarsely den- 

 tate all around by reason of the prominent granules, the largest of 

 which is located at posterior corner ; last segment triangular in out- 

 line, the edges dentate with setiferous tubercles, the apex narrow, 

 with a small tubercle; females nearly black above, 18 mm. long, 

 3.25 mm. broad ; males quite black above, less convex and more 

 slender than the female, and with proportionately broader carina? ; 

 length of male 15 mm., width 2.75 mm. ; locality, Mt. Coffee; females 

 not rare. 



Discodesmus senex. 



Smaller and more slender thau Comodesmus ; dorsum densely 

 granular-tuberculate, the prominences subequal in size and setiferous ; 

 lateral canine nearly wanting, the segments slightly thicker at the 

 sides and with larger tubercles ; repugnatorial pore located above 

 the lateral row of tubercles ; color white. 



Prepodesmus tigrinus. 



This and its congeners have the copulatory legs with a large 

 needle-like straight or slightly curved spine from the ventral or 

 median face. The present species has the anterior margin of the 

 first segment, the anterior lateral apices of the second and third 

 segments, and the carina?, or at least the posterior part of the carina? 

 of poriferous segments bright yellow, with the remainder of the body 

 black ; legs and antenna? reddish-yellow ; length of female 42 mm., 

 width 5 mm. ; antenna? and longest legs 9 mm. ; males distinctly 

 smaller. 

 Prepodesmus mimus. 



Of the same form and size, but with the anterior margin of the 

 first segment, the carina? of the second and third, and the whole pos- 

 terior subsegments of the poriferous segments blight red ; legs and 

 antenna? reddish; locality, Muhlenburg Mission. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Tylodesmus crassipes. 



Color entirely black, legs and antenna? yellowish ; copulatory legs 

 without the spine present in Prepodesmus, and with the interior 

 lamina broad and flabellate ; anterior male legs slightly, though 

 distinctly, crassate; length of male 40 mm., width 4.5 mm. ; length 

 of female 43 mm. ; width 5.6 mm. 



Tylodesmus amoebus. 



Anterior half of first segment, the carina? of the second and third, 

 and the whole of the poriferous segments, except the last two or 

 three, bright red ; the remainder of the body is black ; legs and 

 antenna? pale ; legs of both sexes distinctly more slender than in the 

 preceding species ; sexes not strikingly unequal, though the male 

 is more slender and has somewhat longer legs ; length 35 mm., width 

 of male, 4 mm., of female, 4.5 mm. ; locality, Muhlenburg Mission. 

 The color of this species is almost exactly that of Prepodesmus 

 mimus. 



Lyrodesmus nigerrimus. 



The genus is evidently related to the last, and has a closely similar 

 copulatory foot ; it is distinct in being more slender and depressed, 

 and in having the first segment lenticular or fusiform in outline, 

 rather than hemispheric-elliptical as in the two preceding genera. 

 The species is deep, shining black, including the legs and antenna? ; 

 length of male 35 mm., width 4 mm., legs 6 mm., antenna? 8 mm. in 

 length. Very rare, only two specimens found. A third, nearly 

 white in color and somewhat different in form, may prove to be 

 specifically distinct. 



Cheirodesmus ater. 



First segment as in Lyrodesmus, but the angles not so pointed ; 

 body more slender, narrower, dorsum flat; carina? with square 

 corners, so that the poriferous callus projects from a nearly straight 

 edge ; copulatory legs less complicated, the slender branch shorter ; 

 color uniform black, legs and antenna? yellowish ; length 30 mm. ; 

 width 3.75 mm. 



Cheirodesmus discolor. 



Similar to the preceding in size and form, but distinct at least in 

 color ; an area around each pore, and a moderately broad median 

 line, yellow ; legs and antenna? reddish-yellow ; rare, only one pair 

 taken, near Muhlenburg Mission. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Anisodesmus cerasinus. 



Perhaps doubtfully distinct from A. erythropus (Lucas) in the 

 greater size and lighter color, all the specimens from the interior 

 differing thus from individuals collected at Monrovia. Length 

 41 mm., width of male 5.5, of female 6.5 mm. The length of what 

 I have identified as erythropus is about 35 mm. The species can, 

 however, hardly be determined with confidence from Lucas' des- 

 cription. Both forms are very beautiful in life, deep wine-color, 

 with bright cherry-pink legs. 



Isodesmus immarginatus. 



Resembles Lyrodesmus and Cheirodesmus, but is distinctly broader 

 than either, and distinct from all the related forms in the absence 

 of a distinct poriferous callus, the margin being sinuate. Legs and 

 antennae more slender than in Anisodesmus, but less so than in 

 Lyrodesmus and Cheirodesmus. Color uniform black, the antennse 

 and apical joints of the legs also dark. Copulatory legs also very 

 distinct in that the outer ramus is broad and bifid, while the inner 

 is trifid, giving five distal divisions. Length 42 mm., width 5 mm. 



Isodesmus interruptus. 



Is somewhat larger than the above and has the carina? of the 

 poriferous segments pale yellow. It is known from a female spec- 

 imen only. 



Oxydesmus medius. 



Black or very dark vinous ; carina? concolorous ; legs and antennse 

 also dark ; length 52-66 mm., width 10-12 mm. 



Oxydesmus liber. 



Dark chocolate-brown to black ; ends of the carina?, especially the 

 submarginal ridge, yellow or orange ; antenna? and legs light yellow 

 or orange; length 68-80 mm., width 12-13 mm. 



Bactrodesmus claviger. 



Antenna? very long and slender, clavate, sixth joint longest, 

 scarcely exceeding the third; dorsum much as in Polydesmus, with 

 three rows of scattering tubercles, each with a large clubbed hair; 

 pores dorsal, of the usual arrangement ; penultimate segment toothed 

 behind ; first legs reduced, the second greatly enlarged, especially 

 the penultimate joint ; last joint curved; claw very short, broad; 

 copulatory legs with the basal joint much enlarged, galeate, contain- 

 ing the apical joint when at rest ; length 7 mm., width 1 mm. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Pterodesmus brownellii. 



Last segment exceeded and included by the penultimate, the pos- 

 terior sinus of which is nearly square, longer than broad ; copulatory 

 legs excised at apex, the posterior lobe longer, laterally excised, the 

 anterior broad, with three or four short teeth ; length 28 mm., width 

 7 mm. 



Gypsodesmus pruinosus. 



Dorsum very flat, the carina? curved gently upward toward the 

 posterior corners, and as high as the middle of the segments ; last 

 segment subequal to the penultimate in length, the sinus of the latter 

 broader, the sides diverging ; copulatory legs with the dorsal ramus 

 long, strongly decurved and turned mesad ; length 16 mm., width 

 4 mm. 



Lampodesmus volvatus. 



Dorsum distinctly convex, the carina? slightly decurved, nearly in 

 the direction of the dorsal arch ; last segment and copulatory legs 

 somewhat as in Gypsodesmus; male legs crassate, especially the 

 anterior ; two large and conspicuous processes from the sternum of 

 the sixth legs of males ; length 24 mm., width 5.7 mm. 

 Compsodesmus pulcher. 



About as convex as the last, but the sides sloping more directly 

 from the middle ; no processes from the sixth segment ; male legs 

 scarcely crassate ; copulatory legs very simple, apically somewhat 

 cup-shaped ; penultimate segment with sinus broader ; length 24.5 

 mm., width 6.5 mm. 



Choridesinus citus. 



Last segment nearly or quite concealed under the penultimate ; 

 length 5.5 mm., width 1.5 mm. 



Scolodesmus grallator. 



Dark vinous, a narrow, poorly-defined median spot on each pos- 

 terior subsegment, giving the effect of a pale median line ; legs and 

 antenna? pinkish or yellowish ; length 28 mm., width 2.5 mm., the 

 first segment as broad as any, the other anterior segments distinctly 

 narrower ; locality, Monrovia. 



Habrodesmus laetus. 



Length of male 27 mm., width 2 mm. ; width of female 3 mm. 

 Stylodesmus horridus. 



Length 10 mm., width 3.2 mm.; the processes of the seventeenth 

 and eighteenth segments project far behind the nineteenth, which 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



has neither process nor pores. The first and eighteenth segments 

 have the processes united for more than half their length. 



TJdodesmus telluster. 



Length 8.5 mm., width 1.25 mm. ; penultimate segment project- 

 ing beyond the last, but not exceeded by the processes of the eigh- 

 teenth, which are not coalesced ; processes trituberculate at apex ; 

 first segment with two large processes, and four large lobes in front, 

 the median notch large, deep, rounded. 



Hercodesmus aureus. 



Length 6.75 mm., width .75 mm. ; last segment exceeded by the 

 penultimate ; processes replaced by longitudinal ridges ; carina? very 

 narrow ; first segment with margin very faintly lobed. 

 Stiodesmus stratus. 



Length 10 mm., width 1.4 mm. ; last segment not concealed ; first 

 segment not lobed, but, like the rest of the dorsal surface, beset with 

 rounded granules or tubercles. The affinities of this form are some- 

 what obscure. The general appearance and sculpture suggest 

 Comodesmus, but the form of the first and last segments and the 

 structure and location of the pores are very different. It may prove 

 to be one of the Oryptodesmidce, in the sense of being more nearly 

 related to Cryptodesvius olfersii than to the other species which have 

 been described under that much over-worked generic name. 



RELATED FORMS NOT FOUND IN LIBERIA. 

 Xyodesmus planus. 



Related to Thehjdesinus, but distinctly more depressed, especially 

 the male. Last segment broad at apex and with a large, conic, 

 marginal tubercle on each side nearly equalling the apex ; dorsum 

 densely beset with conic tubercles; carina? broad, dentate, with 

 numerous pointed-conic tubercles; antenna? scarcely cl a vate ; head 

 not concealed; first segment narrower than the second; sterna 

 granulate, especially in the female ; color nearly black ; length 21 

 mm., width of male 3.75 mm.; of female 4 mm. ; locality. Bismarek- 

 burg, Togo Colony, Dr. K. Biittner ; Berlin Museum. 



Helodesmus porosus. 



Related to Comodesmus rather than to the other families, but with 

 remarkable differences. First segment widest, concealing the head : 

 body tapering caudad, subcyliudric, not coiled into a spiral ; dorsum 

 very convex, rough with low granules, and incrusted with earth ; 






1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



pores with distinct raised rims, located far above the slightly prom- 

 inent carina? of segments 5, 7-17$ antennae and legs very short and 

 stout ; copulatory legs of two simple, equal processes ; segments of 

 adult 19 ; color above black, below white ; length of female 4 mm. ; 

 width .6 mm. ; locality, mountains of Western Java, 8,000 feet. 

 This species may be considered the type of a new family, Helodes- 

 midce. 

 Prepodesmus pictus. 



Suggesting P. tigrinus, but the yellow areas of that species are 

 here bright pink ; legs and antenna? very dark reddish ; length of 

 male 45 mm., width 5.5 mm. ; locality, Togo Colony ; numerous 

 specimens in the Berlin Museum. 

 Anisodesmus konakri. 



Nearly black, margins of all carinas yellowish ; legs and antenna? 

 pinkish, rather pale ; dorsum less convex than in A. cerasinus, and 

 the posterior corners of the carina? less strongly dentate ; copulatory 

 legs not expanded at apex, but bent together at a right angle ; 

 locality Konakri, French Gambia, where I collected a pair of 

 mature individuals, January, 1896. 



Anisodesmus gracilis. 



Very distinct from the Liberian species in the smaller and more 

 slender body, and light pinkish color. Copulatory legs similar in 

 form to the other species, but much more slender apically ; length 

 of male 27 mm., width 3.25 mm. ; locality, Bismarckburg, Togo 

 Colony, Dr. K. Biittner ; Berlin Museum. 



Lipodesmus sublaevis. 



Legs and antenna? moderately long ; segments faintly granular or 

 longitudinally rugulose toward the posterior margin ; pores located 

 on a distinct marginal callus projecting from about the middle of 

 anterior and middle segments ; in front of the callus is a distinct 

 notch and tooth ; posterior corner of anterior segments square, acute 

 on posterior ; copulatory legs rather robust, a spiniform process rising 

 from each side of the ungual portion and curved cephalad (dorsad) ; 

 length of male about 28 mm., width 3.8 mm. ; locality, Karewia, 

 East Africa, Stuhlmann ; two male specimens in the Berlin Museum. 



Scytodesmus kribi. 



Dorsum roughened with five or six irregular rows of close-set dis- 

 tinct granules ; submarginal ridge and last segment as in Oxydesmus ; 

 copulatory legs not flexed and inserted under the edge of the aper- 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ture, but constructed somewhat as in Oxydesmus ; length 50 mm., 

 width 9 mm. ; locality, Kribi, German Colony of Kamerun ; a male 

 specimen collected by Morgen is in the Berlin Museum. 

 Mimodesmus parallelus. 



Vertex and dorsal surface smooth or faintly coriaceous, with 

 neither granules, tubercles nor areas ; posterior subsegments without 

 a transverse furrow or depression ; pores situated in the outer slope 

 of the submarginal ridge, as in Oxydesmus ; last segment much as in 

 Oxydesmus, but the tubercles obsolete ; anterior male legs distinctly 

 crassate ; copulatory legs long and twisted, apically recurved again.n 

 the ventral surface of the segment ; color a dull brown, with the sub- 

 marginal ridges and a large spot in the middle of each posterior sub- 

 segment, yellowish ; length 46 mm., width 6.5 mm. ; locality, Kare- 

 wia, East Africa, Stuhlmann ; Berlin Museum. 



Plagiodesmus obliquus. 



Probably allied to and perhaps identical with Stenonia oceidentalis 

 Karsch, described from Quango. Distinct from the species of 

 Oxydesmus by the very oblique submarginal ridges, which are wide 

 and not prominent about the pores ; copulatory legs long and some- 

 what twisted, not inserted under the edge of the aperture as in 

 Oxydesmus ; color dark vinous, nearly black ; length about 75 mm., 

 width 13mm.; locality, Congo Valley; a few specimens in the 

 British Museum. 



Compsodesmus perlatus. 



Length about 20 mm., width 7.5 mm., without the carina 3 2.3 

 mm. ; color dark brown, marked with transparent radiating lines as 

 in the other species of the present family ; copulatory legs distally 

 cupulate, the posterior rim produced caudad into a strong curved 

 spine ; locality, Kamerun hinterland ; a male specimen collected by 

 Zenker is in the Berlin Museum. 



Tanydesmus ordinatus. 



This genus is related to Lampodesmus and the allied Liberian 

 forms, as previously noted. Dorsal areas arranged in three distinct 

 transverse rows ; pores distinct, of the usual formula, near the ante- 

 rior edge of the carhue, remote from the lateral margin : penultimate 

 segment subequal with the last, the sinus rather broad, the sides 

 distinctly diverging caudad ; color in alcohol uniform light reddish- 

 brown ; length of male 19 mm., width 4.5 mm. ; female 22 mm. by 

 5 mm. ; locality, Togo Colony ; several specimens in the Berlin 

 Museum. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Scolodesmus securis. 



Smaller and more slender than S. grallator ; of the same color, but 

 without a lighter median line or row of spots; sternum of fourth 

 pair of legs with a large process more deeply bilobed than S. gralla- 

 tor ; copulatory legs longer and more slender, reaching to the fourth 

 segment, in general form like those of S. grallator; above the middle 

 a curved acicular process projects from each, and the apices of the 

 two lie in contact ; apical portion gently curved mesad and pointed, 

 with a large process from the inner side with a straight inner edge, 

 its corners produced proximad and distad, suggesting the blade of 

 a Roman axe ; length of male 18 mm., width 1.6 mm ; locality, Togo 

 Coast ; a male and a female in the Berlin Museum. 



Habrodesmus falx. 



Closely resembling H. loztus in size and form, differing in that 

 the copulatory legs end in abroad, obliquely truncate lamina with a 

 small transparent process from near the middle of the apical edge. 

 In H. ketus the distal extremity is slender and curved, with two 

 small teeth below the apex, so that the apical sinus is shaped like 

 the figure 3. Color in alcohol, brown or black ; the margins of the 

 first, the posterior margins of the other segments, the ventral sur- 

 face and legs, whitish; antenna? dark ; several specimens from Togo 

 are in the Berlin Museum. A label states that the legs are (in life) 

 pinkish-red; a female specimen is slightly larger and more robust 

 than the female of H. l&tus. 



Napodesmus costatus. 



Differing from Udodesmus, to which it is nearest related, in the 

 more depressed body, the thin margins of the carina?, and the four, 

 fine, slightly elevated, dorsal longitudinal ridges or carina?, scarcely 

 separated into their component tubercles; surface rough, uneven, 

 and finely setose, incrusted with earth, but without distinct tuber- 

 cles ; pores located at the posterior corners of segments 5, 7, 9, 10, 

 12, 13, 15-18, each surrounded by a frill of short, fine hairs ; first 

 segment with numerous large conic processes, anteriorly with four 

 large subequal lobes, each of which is incised along the margin, the 

 median with two incisions, the lateral with one; penultimate 

 segment considerably exceeding and completely concealing the last ; 

 lobed at the sides, and slightly so at apex; length 6 mm., width 

 1.1 mm. ; locality, the forests of Western Liberia, along creeks and 

 rivers ; rare. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Pelodesmus fossor. 



Differing from Udodesmus in the more robust body, the squarer and 

 broader dorsum, and the more prominent and stronger dorsal pro- 

 cesses arranged in two rows; each process distinctly bifid, instead of 

 indistinctly trifid, directed obliquely cephalad. The first segment 

 lacks the inner pair of large lobes, which are apparently replaced by 

 a pair of anteriorly directed large processes similar to those of the 

 other segments ; last segment much as in Udodesmus. Surface 

 thickly incrusted with earth; length 7.5 mm., width 1.5 mm.; 

 locality, Freetown, Sierra Leone, under stones in a moist, shaded 

 place. 



Stegodesmus leonis. 



A recently discovered genus evidently related to Udodesmus, but 

 distinct by remarkable characters. First segment nearly as broad 

 as any, much broader than the second, about twice as broad as long, 

 strongly decurved, the anterior margin transverse, entire, decurved, 

 completely concealing the head ; antenna? distinctly clavate, genic- 

 ulate ; dorsum strongly arched, the carina? depressed ; surface finely 

 roughened, ornamented with four longitudinal ridges, of which the 

 part on each segment is apparently composed of three coalesced 

 tubercles or granules ; a deep median longitudinal sulcus, giving a 

 resemblance to the Platydesmidce ; last segment completely concealed 

 by the greatly produced median pair of ridges of the nineteenth, 

 which is canaliculate and deeply bifid when viewed from above; 

 pores on very distinct special papilla? of segments 5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 

 15, 16 ; color pale pinkish, concealed by the adhering soil ; length 

 5.5, width 1.1 mm.; a single female specimen was found under a 

 stone in a moist place in Freetown, Sierra Leone, January, 1896. 



Pronodesmus melas. 



First segment completely concealing the head, the anterior margin 

 faintly lobed or scalloped, the upper surface with a few scattered 

 conic tubercles; segments with two conspicuous longitudinal ridges, 

 the prominences of each segment composed of two tubercles some- 

 what coalesced at base ; below these ridges there is on each side a 

 row of three small tubercles on each segment ; pores located near 

 the posterior corner of the carinas, opening dorsad on inconspicuous 

 rounded prominences of segments 5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15-18 ; eigh- 

 teenth segment with processes coalesced in the median line, the 

 resulting protuberance projecting as far caudad as the apex of the 




1896.] natural sciences of Philadelphia. 267 



last segment ; nineteenth segment with distinct carinre, the processes 

 much smaller than on the eighteenth ; last segment not concealed, 

 apex very broad and rounded, dorsally rough like the other seg- 

 ments, two distinct notches on each side ; color black, legs, antenna?, 

 and anal valves, white; length 7 mm.; width 1.5 mm.; locality, 

 Gede, West Java, 9,000 feet. 



Myxodesmus lobatus. 



With general resemblance to Pronodesmw and Napodesmus. Dor- 

 sum with four equal longitudinal rows, each of three conic tubercles 

 on each segment; pores located as in Pronodesmus; lateral carina? 

 with three deep, narrow incisions, one in the lateral margin, two in 

 the posterior, dividing the carina? into three distinct lobes ; tubercles 

 of the caudal segments not larger than those of the others ; last 

 segment apically broad, entire, exposed ; color black above, antenna?, 

 legs and anal valves white; length 4.5 mm., width .9 mm.; locality, 

 Goenoeng Filoe, West Java, at an altitude of 8,000 feet. 



Cynedesmus formicola. 



First segment clypeate, concealing the head, the surface covered 

 with rounded granules of different sizes, the anterior margin thin, 

 flattened, forming a projecting horizontal rim ; segments covered 

 with rounded granules somewhat regularly arranged, and with four 

 equal longitudinal rows of three larger granules on each segment; 

 pores much as in Stegode-smus, on a special process from the poste- 

 corner of the areate carina? of segments 5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16 ; 

 last segment large, broad and rounded at apex, with six small lobes 

 or scallops; color pinkish-brown, with fine black points; length 

 7 mm., width 1.25 mm. ; locality, Grand Canary, in the nests of 

 ants, at Telde and at Guia. 




268 proceedings of the academy of [1896. 



May 5. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Forty-five persons present. 



May 12. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled "Remarks on Filaria," by Fred'k P. Henry, M.D., 

 was presented for publication. 



May 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair 

 Ninety-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Planktonokrit, a Centrifugal Apparatus 

 for the Volumetric Estimation of the Food-Supply of Oysters and 

 other Aquatic Animals," by Charles S. Dolley, M. D., was presented 

 for publication. 



Specimens of mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, insects and mollusks 

 collected in western Somali Land and the Galla Country, northeast- 

 ern Africa, by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, were presented to the Acad- 

 emy and commented on by Messrs. A. E. Brown, A. Donaldson 

 Smith, Samuel N. Pvhoads, Witmer Stone, Henry Skinner, William 

 J. Fox and H. A. Pilsbry. (No abstract). 



May 26. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "Catalogue of the Species of Cerion, with 

 Descriptions of New Forms," by H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Yanatta, 

 was presented for publication. 



The death of Auguste Salle, a correspondent. May 5, 1896, was 

 announced. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



269 



A REMARKABLE CENTRAL AMERICAN MELANIAN. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



Some months ago Dr. Wm. H. Dall sent to the writer for com- 

 parison with the series in the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, a peculiar Pachycheilus from Central 

 America which he believed to be undescribed. The specimen proved 



to be totally different from 

 anything yet made known, 

 and may be briefly charac- 

 terized as a species of the 

 Pachycheilus Icevissimus 

 group, with the aperture 

 characters resembling the 

 genus Melanatria of Mada- 

 gascar. 



It is about equally similar 

 to P. Icevissimus var. indorum 

 Morelet and P. chrysalis 

 Brot, having the short aper- 

 Pachycheilus Dalli. ture of the former, and the 



color-tone and robust growth of the latter; but it is a stouter shell 

 in figure than either, with the last whorl decidedly more convex. 

 The operculum is like that of other species of Pachycheilus. 



Pachycheilus Dalli n. sp. 1 



Shell ovate turreted, solid, dusky olivaceous-yellowish, with more 

 or less distinct irregular and interrupted longitudinal black streaks. 

 The surface is covered by a strong cuticle, beneath which the shell 

 substance is white with livid stains ; smooth to the naked eye, but 

 showing fine, superficial growth-lines under the lens, cut by minutely 

 wavy close spirals into a microscopic granulation, most noticeable 

 near suture and base, but often almost obliterated on the body- 

 whorl. Whorls numerous, but owing to erosion but 6 or 7 remain, 

 the earlier ones nearly flat, last two or three convex. 



^ee Science (n. ser.) Ill, p. 603, April 17, 1896. This is the species re- 

 corded as "Pachycheilus walli" in Zoologischer Anzeiger, Xo. 502, 4 Mai, 

 1896, foot of p. 223- It is an unfortunate typographical error, not traceable to 

 the record as officially furnished by the Academy. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Aperture trapezoidal, white within, with livid brown or purplish 

 tracts. Outer lip having a very deep rounded sinus a short dis- 

 tance below the suture, its outer portion then produced forward in 

 a broad rounded lobe, retracted again on the lower outer portion, 

 and produced in a more or less prominent narrow lobe at base. 

 Columella concave ; parietal wall covered by a transparent film, 

 with a slight callus developed near the posterior angle of the aper- 

 ture. 



Alt. 52, diam. 25 mm. Alt. 54, diam. 27 mm. Alt. 53, diam. 

 28 mm. 



Described from four adult and four young specimens in collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and one adult 

 in collection of the United States National Museum. The latter 

 specimen, having suffered least erosion, is figured. 



The peculiar sinuousity of the lip is strictly an adult character. 

 In most specimens it is not perceptible a half whorl back from the 

 lip-edge, although in the last of those measured above, the sigmoid 

 contour is seen in the growth lines almost a full whorl back. Four 

 young specimens examined have the lip hardly more bent than in 

 the ordinary Pachycheili. 



The altitude given above is, of course, measured on decollate 

 specimens. A young shell 52 mm. high has 7 whorls left ; one 

 measuring 33 mm. high has lh, and probably has lost about 11, 



Specimens subsequently received from Dall, collected by Dr. 

 Spear in Tehuantepec, are dark chestnut colored, with traces of 

 darker streaks, and the sinuatiou of the lip is somewhat less deep 

 than in the types. The columella is brown. One very old speci- 

 men approaches a cylindrical form, measuring, in its truncated con- 

 dition, alt. 51, diam. of last whorl 27, diam. of the truncated top 16 

 mm. Somewhat less than three whorls are left. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



REMARKS ON FILARIA. 

 BY FREDERICK P. HENRY, M. D. 



The case which is the basis of my remarks belongs to one of a 

 group of diseases included under the generic term " filariasis," by 

 which is understood an affection caused by one or other species of 

 Filaria. This parasite is by no means rare in the lower animals, 

 especially in the dog, but I will confine my remarks to those Filarise 

 which infest the blood of man. Of these, three species are univer- 

 sally recognized : (1) Filaria sanguinis hominis nodurna, (2) Fil- 

 aria sanguinis hominis diurna, (3) Filaria perstans. This classifica- 

 tion is based upon the habits of the filarial embryos, the first species 

 being found in the superficial vessels solely or chiefly during the 

 night; the second solely or chiefly during the day, while the third 

 is constantly present in the cutaneous capillaries. 



There is a fourth species recently discovered by Dr. Patrick 

 Manson, formerly of Amoy, China, now of London, which he has 

 modestly named Filaria Demarquayi, after Demarquay, the dis- 

 coverer of Filaria nodurna. 



Filaria diurna and Filaria perstans are confined thus far to the 

 "West of Africa and adjoining districts, while the Filaria nodurna is 

 widely prevalent in the tropics and endemic in certain sections of the 

 United States. The adults of Filaria nodurna have been frequently 

 found ; that of Filaria perstans never, so far as I have been able to 

 ascertain. In the opinion of Manson the Filaria loa of the eye of 

 the negro of Old Calabar is probably the adult form of the Filaria 

 diurna. If it is not, he argues, then there must be another blood 

 worm yet to be discovered, for the embryos of the loa must escape 

 from the body of their host through the medium of the circulation. 

 Filaria perstans has been practically proved by Manson to be the 

 cause of the fatal " sleeping sickness" of the Congo region. 



While engaged in the study of filariasis my attention was called 

 by Dr. Charles A. Oliver of Philadelphia, to a remarkable case of 

 Filaria loa recently reported by Dr. Argyll Robertson, the distin- 

 guished ophthalmologist of Edinburgh. The patient was a lady 

 who had spent eight years in missionary work at Old Calabar on 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



the West Coast of Africa. Without entering into the details of this 

 most interesting case I will merely state that in two successive 

 operations Dr. Robertson extracted two Filarise (species loci) from 

 the ocular tissues, the first a male the second a female. Both of 

 these adult parasites are described by Manson in the course of 

 Robertson's paper. The female was stuffed with embryos but 

 repeated examinations of the blood failed to detect any embryonic 

 Filaria? in that fluid. This fact seems to refute Dr. Manson's hypoth- 

 esis that Flaria loa is the adult form of Filaria diurna. 



The fact that the case on which my remarks are based is the first 

 of the kind observed in Philadelphia justifies the publication of a 

 life-history of the parasite, Filaria nocturna, which I found in the 

 blood of my patient and of which living specimens are placed under 

 the microscope. I wish, therefore, to emphasize the fact that Filarise 

 in the blood vessels are undeveloped, embryonic, and that they are 

 the progeny of an adult, two or three inches long, which has its 

 permanent abode in one of the lymphatic channels, probably the 

 thoracic duct. Manson, observing the embryonic characters of the 

 circulating Filarial, came to the inevitable conclusion that they must 

 reach a further stage of development outside of the body and, in all 

 probability, in the interior of some blood-sucking animal. He 

 naturally thought of the mosquito, an insect whose nocturnal blood- 

 sucking habits seemed to render peculiarly fit to act the part of 

 intermediary host. Without entering into details I will merely say 

 that Manson's hypothesis was fully verified by experiment. 



In the case of Filaria diurna it is conjectured that certain blood- 

 sucking flies of Old Calabar known as Mangrove flies play the role 

 of intermediary host. 



The mode in which the embryos of Filaria perstana are supposed 

 to escape from the human body is equally interesting, although it does 

 not involve the agency of any blood-sucking insect. In the region 

 in which Filaria perstans is endemic there prevails a skin disease 

 called " craw-craw " attended with pustules, in the contents of which 

 Filarial have been found. It is supposed, with great probability, 

 that the embryos escape with the rupture of the pustules and, in 

 some as yet unexplained manner, although probably through the 

 medium of drinking water, gain access to the human system in 

 which one, or more, attain maturity. It must be confessed, how- 

 ever, that our knowledge of the life hist.u-y of Filaria perstans and 

 Filaria diurna is based more upon analogy than fact and that this 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



will probably continue to be the case until some Manson takes 

 residence in West Africa. 



The presence of Filaria embryos in the blood does not necessarily 

 give rise to disease, their transverse diameter (Woo inch) being as a 

 rule such as to enable them to traverse the narrowest channels of 

 the blood and lymph. Occasionally, however, they occlude these 

 vessels and this is due to the fact that the embryos are prematurely 

 born enclosed in a sac or sheath of globular form, the transverse 

 diameter of which is about jIjs inch. Disease in man occasioned 

 by the Filaria is, therefore, the result of disease in the Filaria itself. 

 If the adult female Filaria produces the young in a physiological 

 manner they are innocuous to their host; if, through disease or 

 irritation, she brings them forth prematurely, they obstruct the lymph 

 channels and produce one or more of the diseases grouped under the 

 title of filariasis. According to Manson, " it is very certain that in 

 the great majority of instances in which the blood is infested with 

 Filarial, no harm whatever accrues." 



The principal diseases to which the Filaria gives rise are abscesses, 

 lymphangitis, dermatitis and cellulitis, erysipelas, orchitis, chyluria, 

 chylous drops}' of the peritoneum, chylous dropsy of the tunica 

 vaginalis, varicose groin glands, lymph scrotum and elephantiasis. 



The disease or rather the symptom that induced me to search for 

 the Filaria was chyluria, which is not a common manifestation of 

 filariasis even in the tropics. 



It is an interesting fact that the diseases to which the Filarial give 

 rise are entirely due to mechanical interference with the circulation 

 of lymph and blood ; no toxines, or at least none inimical to man 

 seem to be generated by this parasite and this fact is in marked 

 contrast to what is observed in the ordinary infectious diseases. In 

 the latter, as is well known, the products of bacterial activity are 

 intensely toxic. I would venture to suggest, in explanation of this 

 anomaly, that excretory products diminish in toxicity to man in 

 direct ratio with the ascent in the scale of being of the organism 

 that discharges them. 



The most remarkable fact in connection with the habits of Filaria 

 nocturna is that it is found in the superficial capillaries solely 

 or chiefly during the evening and night. On several occasions I 

 have examined the blood of my patient at noon or thereabouts and 

 have found the parasites either absent altogether or very sparsely 

 present ; whereas at night they have always been abundant. This 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



" filarial periodicity," as it is called, has been carefully studied by 

 Manson who found that toward sunset the embryos " begin to enter 

 the general circulation. Gradually, as the night wears on, their 

 numbers increase. About midnight they are most numerous. As 

 morning approaches they get fewer and fewer, and by 8 or 9 A. M. 

 they have disappeared." This periodicity is wonderfully adapted 

 to facilitate the escape and further development of the embryo 

 through the medium of the mosquito. Various theories of the cause 

 of " filarial periodicity " have been advanced but none of them is 

 entirely satisfactory. The most satisfactory of them is that which 

 correlates the habits of the parasite with the sleeping and waking 

 habits of the host. This, however, is simply reiterating the fact 

 without explaining it. That the approach of the embryos to the 

 surface is not entirely due to the somnolent condition of the host is 

 shown by the fact that it begins several hours before bedtime; 

 while, on the other hand, the parasites begin to retire to the deeper 

 vessels hours before the usual hour of rising. It cannot be denied, 

 however, that the condition of sleep has something to do with the 

 approach of the Filaria to the surface. This is proved by a celebrated 

 experiment of Dr. Stephen Mackenzie who induced a patient who 

 harbored the Filaria nocturna to reverse his usual habits as to sleep- 

 ing and waking: *'. e. to remain awake all night, and sleep during 

 the day. While this experiment was in progress the Filaria was 

 found in the surface vessels solely or chiefly during the day. The 

 fact that the embryos begin to find their way to the surface several 

 hours before bedtime would seem to indicate that the systemic condi- 

 tion which induces sleep is chiefly vascular and that it is of gradual 

 development. 



The refuge of the embryo of Filaria nocturna during the day has 

 not, as yet, been discovered. The embryos of Filaria immitis, a 

 parasite of the dog, observe a modified periodicity and when fewest 

 in the surface vessels are found in enormous numbers in the blood 

 vessels of the lung. This is not the case with Filaria nocturna 

 for Manson has examined blood expectorated from the lungs of a 

 Filaria patient by day without finding the embryos and Myers has 

 examined blood withdrawn by aspiration from the spleen and liver 

 during the day, with negative results. 



I have elsewhere 1 discussed the question of the treatment of 



Medical News, May 2d, 1S9C. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



filariasis and will, therefore, confine myself to the statement that 

 there is no drug that will kill the adult parasite, and that even if 

 such a drug were known it would be wisest to refrain from its em- 

 ployment. When the adult worm has its seat in one of the extrem- 

 ities and dies, an abscess usually results; or it is perhaps more 

 correct to say that adult Filarial have been found in such abscesses, the 

 presumption being that the latter are caused by the former. If, 

 however, the adult Filaria dies in the thoracic duct, with consequent 

 abscess, the result would be of necessity fatal. The only treat- 

 ment worthy of the name is prophylaxis. Filaria nocturna being 

 introduced into the system through the medium of drinking water, 

 it is of vital consequence, in the countries in which filariasis is 

 endemic, to secure a pure water supply by filtration or other means. 

 As Manson remarks 2 ; " the ultimate disappearance of the filarial 

 diseases is entirely a matter of personal and municipal education" — 

 in other words of " civilization .... and if any municipal 

 or other body is in want of one more argument for a pure water sup- 

 ply, here is one ready made to their hands." 



2 Davidson's Hygiene and Diseases of Warm Climates. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



THE PLANKTONOKRIT, A CENTRIFUGAL APPARATUS FOR THE 



VOLUMETRIC ESTIMATION OF THE FOOD-SUPPLY OF 



OYSTERS AND OTHER AQUATIC ANIMALS. 



BY CHARLES S. DOLLEY, M. D. 



To Dr. Victor Hensen of Kiel is due the credit of being the first 

 to insist upon the importance of a quantitative determination of the 

 primitive food supply of marine animals. 



In place of the terms "Auftrieb" and " pelagische Mulder " (pel- 

 agic tow-stuff) introduced by Johannes Midler, and commonly em- 

 ployed by zoologists for nearly half a century, Hensen substituted 

 the more comprehensive term, plankton, 1 to include all those free- 

 swimming, or drifting organisms which make up the fauna and 

 flora of the sea. As the result of the initiative taken by Hensen 

 and based largely upon the investigation conducted in the Xorth 

 Sea and Atlantic Ocean under his leadership, there has been devel- 

 oped in less than a decade, one of the most important departments 

 of biological science, to which Haeckel has applied the term plauk- 

 tology. Biologists interested in the practical solution of the diffi- 

 culties met with in the preservation and propagation of the food 

 supply of Man, as found in ocean and lake, bay and river, were 

 quick to recognize the importance of plauktonic studies ; and the 

 broad considerations of the physiologist, concerning the cycle of 

 matter in the sea, have led to narrower, but, nevertheless, exceed- 

 ingly important studies regarding the source, character and quan- 

 tity of the food supply of edible fishes and mollusks. 



It is each year becoming more evident to the fish and oyster cul- 

 turist that he has before him a problem of very considerable com- 

 plexity. He is awakening to the fact that it is not sufficient that 

 he should be able to hatch out and liberate millions of young fish 

 fry, or plant thousands of bushels of oyster spat, but that he must 

 base his culture experiments upon a thorough knowledge of the 

 conditions affecting the survival and growth of the planted forms. 



To the very imperfect knowledge of fish eulturists and oyster plant- 

 ers, may be largely attributed the fact that American oysters have for 



1 -).ayy.7t'>t, wandering, roaming. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



years steadily diminished in abundance, notwithstanding the enor- 

 mous quantity of plants spread out on the oyster grounds of our 

 seaboards, as well as that the fisheries of the Great Lakes have, in 

 several instances, grown steadily less profitable, notwithstanding 

 that millions of young fry have been liberated annually ; for unless 

 the transplanted organism can find suitable and abundant food, 

 the time and money spent in rearing it, up to the period of its plant- 

 ing, is practically wasted. 



As the result of the planktonic studies of Hensen, aquiculture is 

 taking on a new phase which promises to mark a period in its 

 history as important as has been seen in the very rapid development 

 of scientific agriculture, directly attributable to the teachings and 

 methods of Sir John Bennett Lawes of Rotharnstead, England. 



A glance at recent literature is sufficient to show the marked con- 

 trast between modern planktonic investigation and the empirical 

 methods hitherto employed in aquiculture. 



Prof. H. B. Ward, in his paper on the " Food Supply of the Fish 

 in the Great Lakes," and Prof. J. E. Reighard, in his reports on the 

 "Biological Examination of Lake St. Clair," indicate very clearly that 

 the practical failure offish culturista to replenish the rapidly dimin- 

 ishing supply of white fish in the Great Lakes may be directly at- 

 tributed to a lack of kuowledge on the part of those conducting the 

 fish hatcheries, of the conditions affecting the primitive food supply 

 of these waters. In the work conducted under the direction of 

 Prof. Reighard, we find the first recognition in this country of the 

 prime importance of a knowledge of the protophytes of the plank- 

 ton, constituting as they do the primitive food supply upon which 

 are dependent all other forms of the plankton, as well as all higher 

 aquatic organisms. 



John P. Lotsy, in a study of the food of the oyster, clam and 

 ribbed mussel, confirms what has long been known, that these mol- 

 lusks feed almost entirely upon diatoms, and that a knowledge of 

 the life conditions of these latter must furnish the basis of intelligent 

 oyster culture. 



In reviewing the literature pertaining to oysters and the oyster 

 industries, frequent mention is found of the food of oysters and the 

 importance of an abundant and regular supply of the same, but no- 

 where in the numerous reports of expensive investigations of oyster 

 grounds, carried on by the various governments, do we find any sys- 

 tematic study of the protophytic plankton of the waters examined. 




278 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Other and much less important factors, such as depth and density 

 of the water, the character of the bottom, etc., have received ex- 

 haustive attention and are to be found displayed in lengthy tables 

 and expensive charts, whereas, the most important factor of all, 

 the conditions of the oyster's food supply, are relegated to brief 

 paragraphs and have as yet received practically no consideration at 

 the hands of those who have sought to awaken interest in scientific 

 oyster culture. 



In this connection I may be allowed to quote briefly from Prof. 

 Haeckel : " The unicellular plants (Protophyta) have very great im- 

 portance in the physiology of the plankton and the cycle of matter 

 in the sea, for they furnish by far the greater part of the primitive 

 food (Urniihrung). The inconceivable amount of food which the 

 countless myriads of swimming marine animals consume daily is 

 chiefly derived, directly or indirectly, from the plauktonic flora, 

 and in this the unicellular protophytes are of much greater impor- 

 tance than the multicellular metaphytes. 



" Nevertheless, the natural history of these small plants has thus 

 far been very much neglected. As yet, no botanist has attempted 

 to consider the planktonic flora in general, and its relations to the 

 planktonic fauna. Only that single class so rich in forms, the di- 

 atoms, has been thoroughly investigated and systematically worked 

 up ; as regards the other groups, not a siugle attempt at systemiza- 

 tion has been made ; and many simple forms of great importance 

 have lately been recognized for the first time as unicellular plants." 



James I. Peck, in a recent article on " The Sources of Marine 

 Food," adds testimony to the importance of primary food supply, 

 showing, in a number of instances, the steps in the series from the 

 microscopic plants of the sea to the voracious bluefish or squeteague ; 

 the higher organisms in the series being dependent on the lower. 

 How essential, then, to the planktologist is a knowledge of the con- 

 ditions affecting the development of the protophyta, since these 

 minute plants form the primitive organic food, determining the wel- 

 fare of a long series of higher forms, ending with man himself. 

 Means should be devised for establishing planktonic standards based 

 upon 'the ascertained conditions existing in waters known to be pro- 

 lific in higher forms of life. 



Knowing that the oysters, clams and mussels depend practically 

 upon diatomaceous food, and that certain bays, coves or estuaries 

 are noted for the abundance and quality of their molluscan fauna, 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



let the average 'weight or bulk of diatoms for each cubic metre of 

 such a regiou be determined and used as a standard of comparison, 

 by means of which the culturist may estimate the value of neigh- 

 boring waters. 



Corporations such as are now rapidly securing control of the best 

 oyster grounds of the coast, will not long be content to work under 

 the rule-of-thumb methods of the unscientific oysterman. The ex- 

 periments of laying out extensive oyster beds, or establishing fatten- 

 ing parks, are too costly to be undertaken on the basis of guess-work 

 as to whether conditions are or are not favorable. The money in- 

 vested in an oyster bed of one hundred thousand bushels is so great 

 that a year's difference in the time required by the plants to reach 

 marketable size means a very considerable profit or loss to the 

 planters. 



How to turn over the investment every two or three years, in- 

 stead of every five years, is a question which affects very materially 

 the dividends of a corporation engaged in oyster culture. In cer- 

 tain regions, the oysters grow rapidly in size, but do not become 

 sufficiently fat to command the prices paid for oysters of a similar 

 size from other beds. These thin oysters, for a few cents a bushel, 

 can be transferred to parks or fattening ponds, where, by supplying 

 them with waters rich in diatoms, they will become " primes " in 

 the course of a few weeks. 



The advantage of such fattening is obvious, as is the fact that the 

 time consumed in the process is a most important factor, the profit 

 depending on whether the parks can be emptied of oysters and re- 

 filled every three weeks or every six weeks. To regulate conditions 

 of this kind it is not enough to wait for results, to judge from day 

 to day whether the oysters are fattening or not, and to judge the 

 quality of the water of the park by the effects seen on the oysters. This 

 method is unprofitable ; it is either too slow, too uncertain or too 

 wasteful. Variation in rainfall, in temperature, etc., will affect the 

 relative number of food organisms in the water so materially that 

 the best results can be secured only by a daily test of the supply. 



Water rich in diatoms is too precious to be allowed to pass 

 through the parks in quantities larger than necessary to bring the 

 oysters to perfection in the shortest possible time. How now shall 

 the ostreaculturist ascertain quickly and accurately the amount of 

 plankton in the water of his parks and claires from day to day, or 

 decide upon the best places for the location of new beds as regards 

 food supply? 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The methods adopted by Hensen and his followers in estimating 

 the plankton content of any given area of water, are tedious in the 

 extreme, and hold the same relation to practical fish and oyster cul- 

 ture as do the old fashioned methods of counting blood corpuscles 

 and milk globules to the modern use of the hematocrit for the 

 quantitative estimation of blood corpuscles ; or of the various cen- 

 trifugal machines and the Babcock system for the determination of 

 the fat contents of milk. To the use of the pelagic tow-net we are 

 indebted for practically all our present knowledge of minute aquatic 

 organisms, and in so far as concerns the enumeration of the species 

 constituting the plankton of any given region, no improvement can 

 be suggested over the methods now employed. Prof. Haeckel has, 

 however, very clearly pointed out the difficulties connected with 

 Hensen's method of counting the individuals obtained in each haul 

 of the net and that such counting " possesses only an approximate 

 and relative value," and further, that " the only thorough method 

 of determining the yield in planktology is the determination of the 

 useful substance according to mass and weight, .and subsequent 

 chemical analysis." "Without undervaluing in any way the count- 

 ing methods at present employed by planktologists, I desire here to 

 call attention to an apparatus which I have devised and by means 

 of which one may make a large number of plankton estimations in 

 a single day, in each case determining the volume and weight, 

 rather than the number of individuals. By means of thi< apparatus 

 one is enabled to judge of a given area of water at different times of 

 the day, states of the tide, from various depths, in fact of the plank- 

 tonic variations as regards depth, temperature, density, wind, tide, 

 etc. 



The method which I employ is that of the centrifuge, an appara- 

 tus which consists of a series of geared wheels driven by hand or 

 belt, and so arranged as to cause an upright shaft to revolve to 

 a speed of 8,000 revolutions per minute, corresponding to 50 revolu- 

 tions per minute of the crank or pulley wheel. To this upright 

 shaft is fastened an attachment by means of which two funnel- 

 shaped receptacles of 1 litre capacity each may be secured and 

 made to revolve with the shaft. The main portion of each of these 

 receptacles is constructed of spun copper, tinned. To this is at- 

 tached the stem of the funnel consisting of a heavy annealed _ - 

 tube of 15 mm. in outside diameter with a central bore of 21 to 5 

 mm. These glasses are held in place and protected by a cover, 

 such as is employed in mounting a water-gauge. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



The receptacles having been filled with the water to be examined, 

 are caused to revolve for one or two minutes, when the entire con- 

 tents of suspended matter in the water is thrown down to the bottom 

 of the tube, from which the volume may be read off by means of the 



graduated scale on the outside of the tube. The plankton thus ex- 

 peditiously secured can be transferred quickly to a vial or other re- 

 ceptacle, to be weighed or otherwise examined at leisure. 



The apparatus is simple and efficient, covering, I think, some of 

 the faults in the Hensen method, as pointed out by Haeckel, at any 

 rate supplementing the counting method by one which makes it 

 possible to secure a far greater number of estimations in a given time. 

 It is free from many sources of error connected with the use of a net, 

 and for the practical purposes of oyster and fish culture enables the 

 scientist in charge to ascertain the diurnal variations of any given 

 area of water, from planktonic standards previously established 

 under the most favorable conditions. I have chosen the name 

 planktonokrit for this apparatus, and I am confident that it will 

 facilitate in many ways the solution of the cecological problems 

 which confront the student of aquatic organisms, and at any rate 

 free him, to a certain extent, from " the Danaides task " of counting 

 the individuals. 19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PLANKTOLOGY. 



Andrussow. Reraarques biologique et geographique de la flore 

 et de la faune pelagiques. Diatomiste, V, II, p. 60. 



Apstein, C. Das Plankton des Siisswassers und seine quantitative 

 Bestimmung Apparate. Schrif'ten d. naturw. Vereins f. Schleswig- 

 Holstein, Bd. 14, p. 267-273, 1890. 



Quantativ Plankton-Studien im Siisswasser. Biol. 



Centrlb., Bd. XII, p. 484-512, 1892. 



Yergleich der Plankton-produktion in verschiedenen 



holsteinischen Seen. Bericht d. naturf. Gesellsch. Freiburg i. Br., 

 Bd. VIII, p. 79-80, 1894. 



Aurivillius, C. W. S. Redogorelse for de svenska hydrogra- 

 fiska undersokningarne aren 1893-1894. Ill Planktonundersok- 

 ningar. Aniraalisk Plankton. Bih. K. Svensk. Vet.-Akad. Hdlgr., 20 

 Bd. Afd. IV, No. 3 (30 p., I Tab., Zusammenfessung, p. 17-18). 

 Zool. Ctbl., 3 Jhg. No. 6, p. 102. 



Birge, E. A. A report on a collection of Cladocera, mostly from 

 Lake St. Clair, Michigan, with a table of species. Bull, of the 

 Michigan Fisn Com., No. 4, 1894. Appendix II, p. 45-47. 



, assisted by O. A. Olson and H. P. Harder. Plankton 



Studies on Lake Mendota. The vertical Distribution of the pelagic 

 Crustacea during July, 1894, with 4 pi. From Trans. Wiss. Acad. 

 Sc. Arts, Vol. X, p. 421-4SL'. 



Bois-Reymond, E. du. Bericht. uber dieHumboldt-Stiftungund 

 die Kieler Plankton-Expedition des National. Sitzungberichte der 

 Berliner Akademie d. Wissensch. vom 23 Jan., 1890, pp. 8o- v 7. 



Borne, M. von dem. Das Wasser fur Fischerei und Fischzucht. 

 Neudam, 1887. 



Bose, L. A. G. La cause de la coloration des h nitres et les ani- 

 malcules qui servent a les nourrir. Institut. Bui. Univ. Ferussac, 

 II, 319, 1823. 



Brandt, Karl. Die coloniebildenden Kadiolarieu (Sphcerot- 

 sen) des Golfes von Neapel, 1885. 



Ueber die biologischen Untersuchungen der Plankton- 

 Expedition. Verhandl. der Gesellsch. f. Erdkunde zu Berlin, vom 

 7 Dec, 1889, p. 515. 



Ueber die Schliessnetzfange der Plankton-Expedition. 



Verhdlcn. Ges. deutsch. Naturf. u. Arzte, 67 Vers. 2 Bd. I Ht't. p. 

 107-112. 



Brooks, \V. K. The Origin of Food of Marine Animals. Bull. 

 U. S. Fish Com., Vol. XIII, p. 87, 1893. 



Browne, Ed. T. On the Changes in the Pelagic Fauna of Ply- 

 mouth during September, 1893 and 1895. Jour. Mar. Biol. Assoc, 

 N. S., Vol. 4, No. 2, p. 168, 1896. 



BrcKLAND, Frank. The Ovster's Food, Young and Foes. 

 The S,a World and Fishing Gazette, N. Y., Oct. 12, 1880. Vol. II, 

 No. 9. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



Calderwood, W. L. The Feeding-ground of the Herring. 

 Nature, Vol. 53, No. 1360, p. 54. 



Carillon, Dr. Bol alimentaire de V Ostrea edulis. Bui. Soc. 

 Ostr. d'Auray, 105, 1881. 



Cheyney, A. Nelson. Breeding natural food artificially for 

 young fish artificially hatched. Bull. U. S. Fish Com., Vol. XIII, 

 p. 277, 1893. 



Chierchia, Gaetano. Collezioni per studi di scienze naturali, 

 fatti nel Viaggio intorno al mondo dalla R. Corvetta Vettor Pisani. 

 Anni 1882-1885. 



Chun, Carl. Ueber die geographische Verbreitung der pela- 

 gisch lebenden Seethiere. Zool. Anz., No. 214, 215, 1886. 



Die pelagische Thierwelt in grossern Meerestiefen und 



ihre Beziehungen zu der Oberflachen-Fauna. Bibliotheca zoologica, 

 Hft. I, 1888. 70 Jahrsber., Schles. Ges. f. vaterl. Cult. allg. Ber., 

 p. 20-27. 



Bericht fiber eine nach der Canarischen Insel im Win- 

 ter 1887-88 ausgefiihrte Reise. Sitzungsberichte der Berliner 

 Akad. der Wiss., p. 519, 1889. 



Die pelagische Thierwelt in grossen Tiefen. Verhandl. 



d. Gesellsch. deutsch. Natuf. u. Aerzte, Bremen, 1890. 



Atlantis. Biologische Studien fiber pelagische Organ- 



israen. V. Uber pelagische Tiefsee Schizopnden. Bibliotheca Zool. 

 19, Hft. 3, 1896. 



Clark, Frk. N. History and methods of "Whitefish Culture. 

 Bull. U. S. Fish Com., XIII, p. 213, 1893. 



Cleeve, Prof. P. T. Planktonundersokningar Cilioflagellate 

 och Diatomaceer. Diatomiste, Vol. II, p. 142. 



Dean, Bashford. The Physiological and Biological Character- 

 istics of the Natural Oyster-grounds of South Carolina. (V. The 

 Food of the South Carolina Oyster. Animal Element of Oyster 

 Food. Plant Element of Oyster Food. Amount of Oyster Food 

 occurring in South Carolina Waters as determined bv analysis). 

 Bull, of the U. S. Fish Com., Vol. X, for 1890. Wash. Gov. 

 Printing Office, 1892. 



The Food of the Oyster ; its conditions and variations. 



Sec. Rep. of the Oyster Investigation and of Survey of Oyster Ter- 

 ritory for the years 1885 and 1886. Albany, 1887, Sup., pp. 49-78, 

 3 pis. 



Descomt. Sur la cause de la coloration violacee des huitres du 

 bassin dArcachon. Compt. Rend., LXXXV, 967, 1877. 



Dyer, W. T. Thistleton. Greening of Oysters. Nature, 

 Lond., Sep. 6, 1877, Vol. XVI, p. 397. 



Eckstein, K. Die Rotatoriehfauna des Muggelsees. (Aus. d. 

 biol. Station d. deutsch Fischerei-Ver.) Zeitsch. f. Fischerei, 1895. 

 Ausz. von C. Zelinke. Zool. Cntrlb. 2 Jhg., No. 24-25. 30 Dec. (8 

 Jan.), p. 756-757. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Forbes, S. A. The First Food of the Common Whitefish ( Corego- 

 nus dupeiformis, Mitch.). Bull. 111. State Lab., Vol. I, No. 6, p. 

 95-109, 1883. 



France, R. H. Zur Biologie des Planktons. Vorliiufige Mifc- 

 theiluug, Biol. Cntrlbt., Bd. XIV, p. 33-38, 1894. 



Fuchs, Th. Ueber die pelagische Flora und Fauna. Verhandl. 

 d. k. k. Geol. Reichsanstalt in Wien, 4 Feb., 1882, p. 49-55. 



Gaillon, G. B. Des huitres vertes et des causes de leur colora- 

 tion. Annales generales des sciences physiques, VII, 89, 1820. 



Observations sur la cause de la coloration des huitres, 



et sur les animalcules qui servent a leur nutrition. Mem. Soc. Lin- 

 neenne du Calvados, I, 135, 1824. 



Giesbrecht, W. Ueber pelagische Copepoden des Rothen 

 Meeres, gesammelt vom Marineslabsarzt, Dr. Augustin Kramer. 

 Zool. Jahrb., Abth. f. System., 9 Bd., 2 Heft, p. 315-327, 328. 



Goode, George Brown. The Relation of Scientific Research 

 to Economic Problems. Bull. U. S. Fish Com., Vol. XIII, p. 49, 

 1893. 



Graud, S. LTndustrie huitrierea Marennes. Michelet, Pans, 

 1882. 



Graeffe, Edward. Uebersicht der Seethier-Fauna des Golfes 

 von Triest, nebst Notizen iiber Vorkommen, Lebensweise, Erschein- 

 ungs-und Fortpflanzungs-Zeit. Arbeiten d. Zool. Station, Trieste 

 1881-88. 



Greef, Richard. Reise nach den canarischen Inseln " Die 

 Meeresstromungen als Thierstrassen," pp. 307-309, 1868. 



Haeckel, Ernst. Indische Reisebriefe. II Auf. 1, 1882. 



Monograph ie der Medusen. I Bd. Das System der 



Medusen. II Bd. Der Organismus der Medusen, lc>79. 



Natiirliche Schdpfungsgeschichte. Achte Auflage,. 



1889. 



Plankton Studien. Jenaische Zeitschrift, Vol. XXV, 



Hft. 1, 2, 1890. Published separately by Gustav Fischer, Jena, also 

 translated in English by G. W. Field. Planktonic Studies, a Com- 

 parative Investigation of the Importance and Constitution of the 

 Pelagic Fauna and Flora. Rep. of the U. S. Com. of Fish and 

 Fisheries for 1889-1891, pp. 565-641, Wash., 1893. 



Monographie der Hadiolaren. Uebersicht der Ver- 



breitung, pp. 166-193, 1862. 



Report on the Radiolaria collected by H. M. S. Chal- 

 lenger during the year 1873-l<S7t>, Chronological Section. §>; 226- 

 240 (Deutsch in der " Algemeinen Xaturgeschichte der Radio- 

 larien," 1887, pp. 123-137). 



Hensen, Victor. Ueber die Bestimmung des rianktons, oder 

 des im Meere treibenden Materials an Pflanzen und Thieren. V. 

 Bericht der Commission zur wissenschaftl. Unters. der deutschen 

 Meere in Kiel, 1887. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Ergebnisse der in dem Atlantischen Ocean von Mitte 



Juli bis Anfang Nov., 1889, ausgefuhrten Plankton-Expedition der 

 Humboldt-Stiftung auf Grund von gemeinschaftlichen Untersuch- 

 ungen einer Reihe von Fach-Forscbern berausgegeben. Leipzig, 

 1895. 



Einige Ergebnisse der Plankton-Expedition des Hum- 

 boldt-Stiftung. Sitzungsberichte der Berliner Akad. d. Wissen- 

 schaft, vom 13 Marz, 1890, pp. 243-253. Verbdlgn, Go Vers. 

 Ges. deutsch Naturf. u. Arzte I, Th., p. 124. 



Hodgson, T. V. Notes on the Pelagic Fauna at Plymouth, 

 Aug.-Dec, 1895. Jour. Mar. Biol. Assoc, N. S., Vol. 4, No. 2, p. 

 173, 1896. 



Lameere, Aug. La faune des regions belgiques. Feuille des 

 jeunes Naturalistes, (3) 26 Ann., No. 303, Janv. 1896, p. 58 (Tire du 

 " Manuel de la Faune de Belgique "), V. Z. A., 1895, p. 448. 



Levander, K. M. Materialien zur Kenntniss der Wasserfauna 

 in der Umgebung von Helsingfors, mit besonderer Berucksichtigung 

 der Meeresfauna. I. Protozoa. Mit 3 Taf. in Acta Soc. Fauna et 

 Flora Fenn., XII, No. 2. 



Materialien zur Kenntniss der "Wasserfauna von Hel- 

 singfors. II. Rotatoria. Ausz. von C. Zelinke. Zool. Centrlb. 2 

 Jhg., No. 24-25. 30 Dec. (8 Jan.), p. 754-756, 1895. 



Lotsy, John P. The Food of the Oyster, Clam and Ribbed 

 Mussel. Rep. of the U. S. Com. of Fish and Fisheries for 1893, 

 pp. 375-386, 1896. 



McCrady, John. Observations on the food and reproductive 

 organs of Ostrea virginiana, with some account of the Bucephalus 

 calculus, nov. spec. Pro. of the Boston Soc. of Nat. Hist., Dec. 3, 

 1873, Bost., 1874, Vol. XVI, pp. 170-192. 



McTntosh, W. C. Fish-cultural Investigations at St. Andrew's 

 Marine Laboratory, Scotland. Bull. U. S. Fish Com. for 1893, 

 Vol. XIII, p. 241. 



Mobius, Karl. Wo kommt die Nahrung fur die Tiefseethiere 

 her ? Zeitschr. f. wissensch. Zool. Bd., XXI, p. 294, 1871. 



How can the cultivation of the oyster, especially on the 



German coasts, be made permanently profitable ? Rep. U. S. Fish 

 Com. 1877, Wash., 1879, Vol. V, p. 875-884. 



The Ovster and Ovster-culture. Rep. U. S. Fish Com. 



1880, Wash., 1883." Vol. VIII, pp. 683-752. 



Beitriige zur Meeres-Fauna der Insel Mauritius und 



der Seychellen, 1880. 



Systematische Darstellung der Thiere des Plankton in 



der westl. Ostsee und auf einer Fahrt von Kiel in den Atlantischen 

 Ocean bis jenseit der Hebriden. V. Bericht der Com. z. wissensch. 

 Unters. der Deutschen Meere in Kiel, 1887. 



Moseley, H. N. Pelagic Life. Address at the Southampton 

 MeetiDg, Brit. Assoc. Nature, Vol. XXVI, No. 675, p. 559, 1882. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Murray, John. Preliminary Report on some surface organ- 

 isms examined on board H. M. 8. Challenger, and their relation to 

 ocean deposits. Proc. Roy. Soc, Vol. XXIV, pp. 532-537 



Narrative of a cruise of H. M. S. Challenger, with a 



general account of the scientific results of the expedition (1873- 

 1876). Vol. I, II, 1885. 



Muller, Johannes. Ueber die Larven und die Metamorphose 

 der Echinodermen. Abhandl. der Berl. Akad. d. Wissensch., 

 1845-1855. 



Ueber die Thassicollen, Polycystinen und Acanthome- 



tren des Mittelmeeres, 1858, Ibid. 



Nelson, Julius. Oyster interests of New Jersey. N. J. Agri- 

 cultural Experiment Station, Special Bulletins. Trenton, 1889, 

 1891, 1892. 



Ohlin, A. Bidrag till Kiinnedomen om Malakostrakfaunan i 

 Baffin Bay och Smith Sound. Akad. Afhdlg. Lund., 1895. Ausz. 

 von L. A. Jagerskiold in Zool. Centrlb. 2 Jhg., No. 18, p. 565-566. 



Peck, James J. On the Eood of the Menhaden. Bull. I'. 8. 

 Fish Com. for 1893, Vol. XIII, p. 113. Wash., 1894. 



The sources of Marine Food. Bull. U. S. Fish Com 



for 1895, pp. 351-368, Plates 64-71, 1896. 



Puysegur, M. Notice sur la cause du verdissement des huitres, 

 Berger-Lexrault, Paris, 1880, translated, with a supplementary note 

 on the coloration of the blood corpuscles of the oyster, by John Rvder. 

 Rep. U. S. Fish Com., 1882, Wash., 1884, Vol. X, pp. 7'.»3-805. 



Reade, J. B. On the cilia and ciliary currents of the Oyster. 

 (States that the food consists entirely of Infusoria). Rep. of the 

 Brit. Assoc, for the the Advancement of Science, 1 -~» 1 1 i Meet., 1845, 

 Lond., 1846, pp. 66-67. 



Reighard, J. E. Suggestions for an experimental method of 

 determining the efficiency of quantitative nets. Bull, of the Mich. 

 Fish Com., No. 4, 1894. Appendix V, pp. 57-60. 



A Biological Examination of Lake St. Clair. Prelim- 

 inary account of work done during the summer of 1893 by the 

 the party maintained by the Mich. Fish Com. Bull, of the Mich. 

 Fish Com., No. 4, 1894.* pp. 1-41. 



Some Plankton Studies in the Great Lakes. Bull. U. 



S. Fish Com. for 1893, V, XIII, p. 127. 



Rice, H. J. The propagation and natural history of the Ameri- 

 can oyster. Supplement to the Rep. of the Com. of Fisheries of the 

 State of New York, in charge of the Ovster Investigation. Albany, 

 1885, pp. 71-137. 



Richard, J. Sur la faune pelagique du Tesrernsee. Zool. Cen- 

 trlb., 3 Jhg., No. 4, p. 139. 



Ryder, John A Notes on the breeding, food and green color 

 of the oyster. Bull. U. S. Fish Com., Vol. I, 1881, Washington, 

 1882, pp. 403-419. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



An account of experiments in oyster culture and ob- 



servations thereon, made at St. Jerome's Creek, Maryland, during 

 the summer of 1880. Appendix A to a Report of the Commissioner 

 of Fisheries of Maryland, Jan., 1881, Hagerstown, 1881, pp. 1-64. 

 Discusses the anatomy and food of the oyster (Ostrea virginiana) 

 and the fauna of oyster beds. 



Notes on the breeding, food and green color of the 



oyster. Trans, of the Amer. Fish-cult. Assoc, 11th Annual Meet- 

 ing, N. Y., 1882, pp. 57-79. 



Notes on the breeding, food and cause of green color of 



the oyster. Forest and Stream, N. Y., May 25, 1882 and June 1, 

 1882,' Vol. XVIII, pp. 331-332, and pp. 349-351. 



A contribution to the life history of the oyster (Ostrea 



virginiana Gmelin, and 0. edulis Linn.). The Fisheries and Fish- 

 ery Industries of the U. S., Washington, 1884, sec. 1, pp. 711-758. 



Schenkling-Prevot. Beitriige zur Tiefseeforschung. Zool. 

 Garten, 36 Jhg., No. 6, p. 102. Abbildungen aus Chun und aus 

 Marshall. 



S< hmidtleix, R. Vergleichende Uebersicht uber das Erscheinen 

 grosserer pelagischer Thiere wahrend der Jahre 1875-1877. Mit- 

 theil. der Zool. Station, Neapel, Bd. I, p. 119, 1879. 



Shimkewitsch, Wl. La fauna de la mer blanc et les travaux 

 de la station biologique russe de Solovetzky. Avec 2 incis. in Re- 

 vue Scientifique. T. 3, No. 23, p. 705. 



Seligo, A. Hvdrobiologische Untersuchungen, I. Schriften d. 

 naturf. Ges. Danzig, n. F., Bd. VII, p. 43-89, 1890. 



Simboth, H. Neue pelagische Schneckenlarven und Muscheln 

 von der deutschen Planktonfahrt. Sitzgsber. Nat. Ges. Leipzig, 

 19-21, Jhg., p. 8-10, 42-3. 



Smith, Frank. List of the Protozoa and Mollusca observed in 

 Lake St. Clair in the summer of 1893. Bull, of the Michigan Fish 

 Commission, No. 4, 1894, Appendix 1, pp. 42-44. 



Sorby, H. C. Description of methods for collecting and estimat- 

 ing the number of small animals in sea water. Report, 6o Meet. 

 Brit. Assoc, Ipswich, 1895, p. 730. 



Spangler, A. M. The Decrease of Food-Fishes in American 

 Waters and Some of the Causes. Bull. U. S. Fish Com. for 1893, 

 V. XIII, p. 21-35. 



Sullivan, W. K. Composition of the Soils of Oyster Grounds. 

 Appendix to Report of the Commissioners Appointed to Inquire into 

 the Methods of Oyster Culture in the United Kingdom and France, 

 with a View to the Introduction of Improved Methods of Cultivation 

 of Oysters into Ireland. Dublin, 1870, pp. 166-176. 



Susta, J. Die Ernahrung des Karpfen und seiner Teichgenossen. 

 Stettin, 252 pp., 2 Taff., 1888. 



Tanner, Z. L. On the Appliances for Collecting Pelagic Or- 

 ganisms, with Special Reference to those Employed by the U. S. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Fish Commission. Bull. U. S. Fish Com., Vol. 14, 1894, p. 143- 

 151. 



Thompson, Wyville. The Depths of the Sea. An account of 

 the general results of the dredging cruises of H. M. S. S. Porcupine 

 and Lightning, 1873. 



The Atlantic. A preliminary account of the general 



results of exploring voyage of H. M. 8. Challenger, 1877. 



Turbyne, Alex. The Feeding Ground of the Herring. Nature, 

 Vol. 52, No. 1356, p. 617, and No. 1363, p. 129. 



Valenciennes, A. Sur les causes de la coloration en vert de 

 certaines huitres. Compt. Rend., XII, 345, 1841. 



Vanhoffen, E. Ueber gronlandisches Plankton (Vortrag.). 

 In Verhdlgn. Ges. deutsch Naturf. u. Arzte, 66 Vers. Wien, 2 Th., 

 I Halfte, p. 133-135. 



Vogt, Carl. Ocean and Mittlemeer, p. 303, 1848. 



Walter, E. Eine praktische verwerthbare Methode zur quanti- 

 tiven Bestimmung des Teichplankton. In Forschgsber. Biol. Stat. 

 Plon., Th. 3, p. 100-187. 



Ward, H. B. A Preliminary Report on the Worms (mostly 

 parasitic) collected in Lake St. Clair, in the summer of 1893. 

 Bull, of the Michigan Fish Commission, No. 4, 1894. Appendix 

 III, pp. 49-56. 



Anew Method for the Quantitative Determination of 



Plankton Hauls. Trans. Amer. Micr. Soc, Vol. 17. p. 255, 1896. 

 Zool. Centrlb., 3 Jhg., NR. 7, p. 225. 



The Food Supply of the Fish in the Great Lakes. The 



Nebraska Literary Magazine, Vol. 1, Nov., 1895, No. 2, pp. 107- 

 124. 



The Food Supply of the Great Lakes ; and some Ex- 

 periments on its Amount and Distribution. 2 Plates. Trans. 

 Amer. Micr. Soc, Vol. 17, p. 242-251, 1896. 



Winther, G. On the Geographical Distribution of the Common 

 Oyster. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, London, March, 

 1878, 5 ser., Vol. 1, pp. 185-189. 



Abstract translation of Om vore Haves Naturforhold 



nied Hensyn til konstig Oestersavl og om de i den henseende an- 

 stillede Forsog. Kopenhagen, 1876. Nordisk Tidskrit't lor Fiskeri. 



Wolcott, Dr. R. H. The Insecta and Acarina of Lake St. 

 Clair, a preliminary Report. Bull, of the Michigan Fish Com., No. 

 4, 1894. Appendix IV, pp. 55-56. 



Zacharias, O. Statistische Mittheilungen iiber das Plankton 

 des Grossen Ploner Sees. In Zool. Anz., 17 Jhg., No. 404, p. 4">7. 



Quantitative Untersuchungen iiber das Limnoplank- 



ton. Nebst Anleitung zur Vornahme von Zahlungen und Volu- 

 menmessungen. Berlin, 1896, 64 p., M. 2. 



Faunistische Mittheilungen (Ploner See) 2 Taf. In 



Forschungsber. Biol. Stat. Plon, Th. 3, p. 73. 




1896] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Ueber die wecbselnde Quantitat des Plankton im 



Grossen Ploner See. Ibid., p. 97-117. 



Ueber die horizontale und verticale Verbreitung lim- 



netiscber Organismen. Ibid., p. 127. 



Planktonmessungen in Grossen Ploner See. Corr. Bl. 



f. Fischzncht, 3 Jbg., No. 1, p. 7-8. 



Fauna des grossen Ploner Sees. Forscbungsber. d. 



Biol. Station zu Plon., II Tbeil, p. 57-64, 1894. 




290 proceedings of the academy of [1896. 



June 2. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Seventy persons present. 



June 9. 

 Harrison Allen, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of Brazil, 

 No. 1. Scoliidse," by William J. Fox. 



" The Mesenteries of the Lacertilia," by Edward D. Cope. 



"Revision of the Slugs of North America: Ariolimax and 

 Aphallarion," by Henry A. Pilsbry aud E. G. Vanatta. 



June 16. 



Mi:. Charles Morris, in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 "A Collection of Fishes obtained at Swatow, China, by Miss 



Adele M. Fielde," by Cloudsley Putter. 



"A Collection of Fishes made by the Rev. Joseph Seed Robeits 



in Kingston, Jamaica," by David Starr Jordan and Cloudsley 



Putter. 



June 23. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



June 30. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



The Ulna of the Common Brown Bat. — Dr. Harrison Allen 

 called attention to the ulna in the common Brown Bat, Adelonye- 

 terlsfusca. The ulna in the Vespertilionidae had been described by 

 some authors (e. g. de BlainvilleJ as ending free in the muscles of 

 the forearm. Dr. Allen believed he had demonstrated this arrange- 

 ment in Adelonycteris and Vespertilio. Others assert that in all the 

 bats the ulna is anchylosed to the shaft of the radius. Dr. Allen 

 wished to revise his former statement 1 on this subject. In a fully 

 adult specimen of the bones of the forearm which he had subjected 

 to prolonged boiling, Dr. Allen found that the ulna by gentle trac- 

 tion could be separated from the radius and be traced as a slender 

 filament along the entire length of the forearm and to end at the 

 wrist joint. The arrangement in the adult, in this species at least, 

 is, therefore, not different from that found in the embryo. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 

 iMon. N. A. Bats, 1894. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE HYMENOPTERA OF BRAZIL. 

 No. 1, SCOLIIDiE. 



BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



The explorations of Herbert H. Smith have done more to extend 

 our knowledge of the insect fauna of Tropical America than those 

 of any other person, with the possible exception of the late Henry 

 Walter Bates. His work in Mexico for the Biologia Centrali 

 Americana and for the West India Committee has given him an 

 extended reputation ; but it remains for the classifying of his 

 South American collections to show the real extent of his labors in 

 the field and forest. 



It has been my good fortune to have Mr. Smith's collection of 

 fossorial hymenoptera placed in my hands for identification and 

 study, and its size is indicated by the number of species contained 

 in the present paper on the Scoliidre, winch includes no less than 

 thirty species, besides some half dozen species of the genus Tiphia, 

 which, in consequence of many faulty descriptions of South American 

 forms, I have been obliged to leave undetermined. 



In 1873-1875, Mr. Smith worked alone on the Amazons, and the 

 Santarem material was then gathered. In 1881-1886, accompanied 

 by his wife and two assistants, another journey was made. Going 

 first to Para he and his wife made a flying trip to Santarem, and 

 then down the coast, stopping a week at Pernambuco and several 

 months at Rio de Janeiro ; from the latter place they went to Entre 

 Rios. Six months were spent in Rio Grande do Sul ; but there are 

 no hymenoptera in the collection from that place. By steamer 

 they proceeded up the Paraguay to Corumba and Ouyaba. Head- 

 quarters were established at Chapada,and there four years were spent. 

 Ad interim Mr. Smith returned to Rio de Janeiro for a year, leav- 

 ing his wife and one assistant in the interior. After finally leaving 

 Chapada they made a canoe journey on the Upper Paraguay to 

 Pedra de Amolas, Pacoval, etc., but most of the time was here given 

 to geological and ethnological work. Subsequently several weeks 

 were spent at Corumba and Piedra Blanca, before returning to the 

 United States. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



Mr. Smith has kindly furnished me with the following notes on 

 localities visited as far as they relate to the hymenoptera. 



Santarem. A town at the junction of the Tabajus with the 

 Amazon. Its immediate vicinity is more or less open land, with 

 scattered low trees and a thin grass growth : the type of vegetation 

 called campo in Brazil. Most of the hymenoptera labeled 

 Santarem, were, however, collected a few miles inland or down the 

 Amazon, at the settlements of Panema, Marurii and Taperinha, 

 where most of the land is covered with heavy forest broken by a 

 few clearings. The soil both of campo and forest is sandy. The 

 climate is moderately warm for a region so near the equator, and 

 moist, though not extremely so. 



Monte Alegre is in campo land very similar to Santarem ; it is on 

 the opposite or northern side of the Amazon. 



Specimens marked Pernambuco are from the San Francisco plan- 

 tation, some miles inland : a clearing in forest ; laud hilly, and soil 

 clay. 



Rio de Janeiro. Land originally forest. No specimens were col- 

 lected above 2,500 ft. alt. 



Entre Rios, in the State of Rio de Janeiro, is on the Parabyba 

 do Sul River, back of the Organ Mountains. The soil is clay, cov- 

 ered with low and somewhat open forest; climate rather dry. Mr. 

 Smith says : " The insects of Entre Rios, I have found, resemble 

 those of Chapada and Corumba rather than those of Rio." 



Corumbd, in the State of Matto Grosso, on the western bank of 

 the Paraguay, close to the confines of Bolivia. The climate dry and 

 hot ; the vegetation open ; dry forest, full of cacti and other thorny 

 plants. The opposite side of the Paraguay, where some collections 

 were made (these are marked " lowlaud ") is in the great flood-plain : 

 a vast semi-swampy region, flooded every year during several months. 

 This is the region known to geographers as Lake Xaraes, or, better, 

 the Xaraes Marshes (also written Charaes or Jaraes). 



Piedra Blanca (or Pedra Branca), a small settlement and custom- 

 house just within the boundary of Bolivia, on a lake opening into 

 the Paraguay, and only four miles from Corumba. The land is low 

 and damp and covered with heavy forest, very different from the 

 region about Corumba. 



Paeoval and Pedra de Amolas are settlements on the Paraguay 

 above Corumba, on the edge of the flood-plain, but backed by rocky 

 hills ; land open or forest. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Cuyaba is the capital of Matto Grosso, on the River Cuyaba, a 

 sub-branch of the Paraguay ; soil dry and stony, with carapo growth ; 

 climate dry and hot. 



Cachoeira is just above Cuyaba, on low, semi-swampy land. 



Chapada. Here the greater part of the collection was made. It 

 is an Indian village, thirty miles northeast of Cuyaba, on the plateau 

 stretching from the southern tributaries of the Amazon to the flood- 

 plains of the Paraguay, and is about 2,700 ft. above sea level. The 

 land in the immediate vicinity of the village is clayey or stony. 

 Many of the specimens marked from bere are from the neighboring 

 settlements of Abrilonga, Gloria, etc., several hundred feet lower, 

 and on sandy soil. All this region has a varied vegetation : stretches 

 of open land or campo and semi-forest are interspersed with large 

 patches of heavy forest. The climate is never very warm (mean at 

 Chapada 72° F.) and there are cold snaps in June, July and August, 

 when the thermometer frequently sinks to 40° or lower. These cold 

 snaps are caused by southerly winds, which, as Mr. Smith states, he 

 has proved are the same as the " pamperos," which are so destructive 

 to shipping on the Rio de la Plata. The latitude of Chapada is 

 about 14°8'. The hymenoptera from this place were largely col- 

 lected on flowers about the open lands, and near the streams, where 

 many specimens were gathered in muddy places. 



To quote from a letter of June 16, 1896, from Mr. Smith : " I 

 cannot say that the collection of fossorial hymenoptera is a par- 

 ticularly good one. The best work was done at Chapada ; but even 

 there most of our time was given to other branches, and I was much 

 interrupted. In my opinion, the hymenoptera of Brazil are hardly 

 touched. The rule in the tropics, with all orders of insects, is that 

 a few species are common, while a great majority are rare, and re- 

 quire a long and patient collecting to amass a reasonably good rep- 

 resentation. Probably the Scoliidse are as well represented as any, 

 because most of the species are large and conspicuous. They have 

 a very peculiar and almost indescribable odor. I found them most 

 common on flowers." 



The Scoliida? are as follows : 



Myzine flavopicta Sin. 



Rio de Janeiro (November) ; Corumba (February and April) ; 

 Chapada (March and November). Four female and seven male speci- 

 mens. Burmeister's M. duplicata is a variety of this species. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



Myzine emarginata n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; basal two-thirds of mandibles; tibia?, tarsi and apex 

 of femora reddish ; a transverse, medially enlarged line across front, 

 a narrower one across occiput; line on pronotum posteriorly and a 

 spot on each side anteriorly, spot ondorsulum medially, small one near 

 tegula?, line on scutellum and metauotum, tegulae at base, triangular 

 spot on mesopleura?, a large one on each postero-lateral angle of 

 middle segment, and a small elongate one above in the middle, rarely 

 absent, spot on fore femora beneath near apex, spot on medial and 

 hind femora above near apex, this spot sometimes extending on the 

 lower surface, fore tibiae externally, broad transverse band on first 

 dorsal segment, sometimes emarginate anteriorly in the middle, the 

 second entirely except a narrow line at base and a transverse medial 

 line, these lines united so as to form a low X, the medial one not 

 extending to the sides, and apex of second, third and fifth with a 

 narrow, thrice emarginate line at apex, yellow, that on the fifth 

 irregular; body sparsely clothed with griseous pubescence; front 

 with large separated punctures, smooth medially, those of the vertex 

 and occiput very sparse; clypeus rather sharply carinated down the 

 middle; pronotum and dorsulum much more sparsely, with large 

 punctures, those of the scutellum and mesopleura? closer; middle 

 segment above finely punctured, in the middle somewhat roughened 

 posterior face above and at the sides with coarse transverse wrinkles, 

 at apex the wrinkles are longitudinal, sides very finely and obliquely 

 striated ; first dorsal segment punctured at the sides, the second 

 with fine sparse punctures, strong at sides, punctures of segments 3 

 and 4 fine and closer, of the fifth stronger, second ventral with large 

 sparse punctures, the remaining ventrals finely punctured at base, 

 coarsely at apex ; pygidial area covered with strong, longitudinally 

 parallel stria?, the apex narrowly reddish ; wings light fusco hyaline, 

 with a broad fuscous streak running from stigma to apex of supe- 

 riors. Length 16-17 mm. 



Chapada (March to May). A series of males collected at Chapada 

 and Corumba (April), I place here with some doubt. 



S . — Black ; abdomen iridescent ; clypeus, mandibles except apex, 

 inner orbits, spot on scape beneath, one over each antenna?, line on 

 anterior and posterior margin of pronotum, that on anterior margin 

 interrupted medially, dorsulum medially, spot on scutellum and 

 metanotum, large spot on mesopleura? anteriorly and a small one 

 posteriorly, two parallel spots on upper surface of middle segment, 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896". 



postero-lateral angles of the latter, spot on all the coxa? beneath, and 

 above on the posterior pairs, femora except base, remainder of legs 

 except stripe on tibia? beneath and a ring at apex of tarsal joints, a 

 thrice emarginate fascia at apex of dorsals 1-6, the first broadest, 

 the last interrupted medially, and a elongate spot on each side of 

 ventrals 2-5, all yellow ; wings hyaline, faintly dusky at apex, stigma 

 testaceous ; antenna? but little longer than the combined length of 

 head and thorax ; front rather strongly and closely punctured, the 

 occiput much more finely so ; middle segment above in the middle 

 strongly punctured, the posterior face closely and transversely striato- 

 punctate, on the sides obliquely and more finely so ; abdomen above 

 with rather strong, separated punctures, beneath the punctures a 

 little finer and sparser. Length 15-17. 



This sex is very like the $ of fiavopida, but is, as a rule, larger ^ 

 spots on postero-lateral angles of the middle segment larger, abdom- 

 inal fascia? thrice emarginate, and the sculpture of the middle seg- 

 ment is less coarse. The spotted upper surface of middle segment 

 is constant in all but two of the twenty-two specimens before me. 



Myzine frontalis liunn. 



One specimen. Corumbii (April). 



Myzine radiata n. Bp. 



9 . — Black ; abdomen iridescent ; spot on each side of clypeus, at 

 base of each antenna, inner orbits, two dots on metanotum, and a 

 small spot on each side of the first dorsal segment, yellow ; tibise, 

 tarsi, mandibles and tegula? in part obscurely rufo-testaceous ' r 

 clypeus with fairly strong punctures on each side, in the middle 

 longitudinally raised or carinated and impunctate ; front and occiput 

 with large separated punctures, which are finer along the occipital 

 margin; region including the ocelli almost impunctate; scape dis- 

 tinctly punctured ; pronotum and dorsulum with strong, though not 

 very deep punctures, the posterior portion of dorsulum, however, 

 and the scutellum are longitudinally rugoso-punctate ; sides of pro- 

 thorax strongly and obliquely striated; mesopleurrc with the punc- 

 tures deeper and more even than on pronotum ; upper Burface of mid- 

 dle segment at base microscopically punctured, transversly strigose 

 posteriorly, posterior face with unusually coarse wrinkles orf olds ra- 

 diating rather evenly from apex and covering the entire surface, and 

 running into less coarse oblique stria 1 on the sides; calcaria and 

 spines of legs white ; dorsal segments 1-4, rather finely and evenly 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



punctured, the fifth more strongly, the base of 3 and 4 transversely 

 smooth ; ventrals with a series of strong punctures before apical 

 margins, from which pale hairs project, otherwise sparsely punctured; 

 pygidial area longitudinally and evenly striated; pubescence of 

 body pale, a rather prominent bunch on each side of the first dorsal 

 segment; wings subfuscous, the anterior portion of the anteriors 

 deeply clouded, nervures black. Length 15 mm. 



Chapada (March). One specimen. Seems to be very distinct as 

 regards coloration and sculpture of middle segment. 



Myzine iridescens n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; abdomen iridescent, especially the first dorsal seg- 

 ment; inner orbits, metanotum, and a dot on each side of the first 

 dorsal segment of abdomen, yellow; pubescence pale; clypeus with 

 fairly strong punctures, except in the middle, which is longitudinally 

 smooth and raised or carinated ; front with large, deep punctures 

 closer than in radiata ; occiput with large, rather sparse punctures, 

 its posterior margin with finer and closer ones ; ocellar region almost 

 impunctate ; scape distinctly punctured ; pronotum with large, 

 though not deep, somewhat confluent punctures ; dorsulum with the 

 punctures on anterior portion fine and closer, on the remainder 

 stronger and sparser than those of the pronotum ; scutellum with large, 

 separated punctures, upper surface of middle segment at base finely 

 and closely punctured, apically rugose, particularly in the middle ; 

 posterior face covered with fairly strong, close stria? which radiate 

 from the apex, become coarser laterally, and extend on sides where 

 they are finer and evener ; sides of prothorax finely striated obli- 

 quely ; rnesopleurre with large, deep punctures ; calcaria and spines 

 of the legs white ; the tibise and tarsi obscurely rufo-testaceous ; 

 abdomen above rather finely punctured, most strongly on segments 

 4 and 5, and at the sides, base of 2-4 transversely smooth ; ventral 

 segments with large, sparse punctures, a transverse series before the 

 apical margins of segments 2-5 ; pygidial area longitudinally striated ; 

 wings subfuscous, the anterior portion of anteriors deeply clouded, 

 nervures and tegula? in part testaceous. Length 12 mm. 



Chapada (December). One specimen. This is very similar super- 

 ficially to radiata, but differs in much finer sculpture of thorax, 

 particularly the middle segment. 

 Tiphia parallela Sm. 



Chapada (December and January); Santarem (February); Villeta 

 (May). Seven specimens. 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Tiphia solitaria Sm. 



Chapada (May and November) ; Santarem. Four specimens. 

 Smith doubtfully referred solitaria to parallela as the latter's male, 

 in which he was probably correct. 



In addition to the two species of Tiphia above noted the collec- 

 tion contains, perhaps, five others, which I have not been able to 

 place in consequence of the many incomplete descriptions that exist 

 of neotropical forms. Smith's descriptions of Tiphia are almost 

 useless. 

 Epomidiopteron Julii Rom. 



Chapada (December and February) ; Santarem. Four specimens, 

 all females. 

 Scolia (Discolia) nigrescens n. sp. 



Deep black, shining ; mandibles red ; wings black, with a strong 

 blue reflection ; tibiae and tarsi reddish ; base of second ventral seg- 

 ment with two small tubercles. 



9 . — Head with deep, sparse punctures, closest at base of antennse 

 and on occiput; anterior margin ofclvpeus truncate; scape sparsely 

 punctured ; thorax coarsely punctured, tolerably closely so on pro- 

 thorax and mesopleune, dorsulum and scutellum impunctate me- 

 dially, upper segment of middle segment in middle strongly punc- 

 tured, posteriorly depressed, and sparsely punctured; legs more or 

 less reddish, their amount of black and red variable, the spines black, 

 longer spur of hind tibiae equal to about one-third the length of the 

 first hind tarsal joint ; abdomen strongly punctured, particularly on 

 the first and second dorsals, dorsals 3-5 almost impunctate except at 

 base, where the punctures are close and small, dorsal segment six 

 with cribrose punctures and coarsely hirsute, ventrally the abdomen 

 has large, sparse punctures, out of which project black hairs; 

 pilosity of the body black and sparse ; base of second ventral with 

 two small, transverse tubercles. Length 22-24 mm. 



$. — Similar to 9 in coloration except that the legs are usually 

 entirely black ; antenna? scarcely as long as head and thorax, stout; 

 abdomen with all the segments punctured alike, the punctures being 

 well separated, but not sparse ; joints of medial and hind tarsi within, 

 at apex, with a small bunch of grayish hairs. Length 16-20 mm. 



Chapada (November, December and March). Fourteen speci- 

 mens. Near monticola Cam., from Mexico, but is distinct in the 

 tuberculate second ventral segment, the medially impunctate dor- 

 sulum and scutellum and differently colored legs. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Scolia (Discolia: versicolor Sauss. 



Chapada (November and March.) Four 9 arid one $ specimen. 

 Saussure in describing this species was in doubt whether its habitat 

 was Brazil or Africa. The specimens before me agree very well with 

 the description, and leave no doubt in my mind as to their identity. 

 The color of thorax varies somewhat, the dorsulum, tegula? and scu- 

 tellum sometimes partaking of rufous. 



The male has not before been recorded. It may be briefly diag- 

 nosed as follows : 



$ . — Colored like the 9 , but with four apical segments reddish ; 

 antenna? stout, about as long as head and thorax ; thorax strongly 

 punctured, sparsely so on dorsulum, scutellum, metanotum aqd 

 middle segment, medially ; abdomen with strong punctures, fairly 

 close, on dorsal segments 4-6 in the middle somewhat sparsely, the 

 ventrals much more sparsely so ; second ventral at base strongly 

 bituberculate ; longer spur of hind tibire about half as long as the 

 first hind tarsal joint ; wings black, with a strong bluish-purple re- 

 flection ; pilosity of body black, rather sparse. Length 20 mm. 



Scolia (Discolia) Drewseni Sauss. 



Chapada (March and April). Eighteen 9 and fifteen $ speci- 

 mens. The wings have a bronzy-purple reflection, not violaceous as 

 described by Saussure. 



The $ , heretofore unknown, may be described as follows : 

 $ . — Similar to 9 as to coloration, the black or under side of 

 thorax more distinct ; antennre about as long as head and thorax ; 

 thorax strongly punctured, sparsely so on the middle of dorsulum, 

 scutellum, metanotum and upper surface of middle segment ; abdo- 

 men with strong punctures becoming closer toward apex, sparsest 

 on first and second dorsal and on the ventral segments ; longer spur 

 of hind tibise nearly half as long as the first hind tarsal joint; 

 second ventral segment at base indistinctly tuberculate ; wings black, 

 with a strong bronzy-purple reflection ; pilosity of body reddish, 

 rather dense on apical abdominal segments. Length 12-18 mm. 

 Scolia (Discolia) decepta n. sp. 



Similar to Drewseni, but the wings are deeper blue, and not pur- 

 plish ; clypeus transverse, not produced in the middle as in Drewseni. 

 9 . — Head with deep, sparse punctures, almost impunctate above 

 on the front, more closely at base of antenna? and on occiput ; clypeus 

 convex and impunctate medially, depressed and punctured on the 

 sides, a small patch of pale hairs on each extreme side ; thorax 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



strongly punctured, very closely above on prothorax, elsewhere 

 sparsely, the center of dorsulun, scutellum and metanotum impunc- 

 tate or nearly so, the middle segment above in the middle with large, 

 scattered punctures ; longer spur of hind tibise less than half as long 

 as the first hind tarsal joint ; first and second dorsal segment strongly 

 punctured, the punctures on second sparsest and feebler, dorsals 3-5 

 almost impunctate, the sixth with cribrose punctures, ventrals 

 with large, much scattered punctures, the base of second segment 

 bituberculate ; venation about as in Drewseni, the second transverso- 

 cubital nervure strongly curved outwardly. Body rufous ; flagel- 

 lum except first joint, occiput narrowly, thorax on sides and beneath, 

 the middle segment entirely, and first and base of second abdominal 

 segments, black ; legs, including spines, rufous ; pilosity black, except 

 fringe of mandibles and two apical abdominal segments. Length 

 21 mm. 



Chapada. One specimen. Superficially, decepta shows a striking 

 resemblance to Drewseni, from which it differs in the bluer wings, 

 shape of clypeus and color of pilosity. 



Scolia (Discolia) bisignata n. sp. 



Similar to Drewseni and decepta in coloration, the third dorsal 

 abdominal segment with a small lateral yellow spot ; clypeus trans- 

 verse anteriorly ; wings black, with a strong purplish reflection. 



9 . — Head with deep, sparse punctures, those of the occiput, base 

 of antenine and on sides of clypeus, much closer ; clypeus strongly 

 convex and impunctate medially, its fore margin transverse, at the 

 sides with a small bunch or fringe of pale hairs ; thorax strongly 

 punctured, closest on prothorax and dorsulum anteriorly, posteriorly 

 on dorsulum the punctures are large and sparse, as are likewise those 

 of the scutellum and metanotum, on the centre of upper surface of 

 middle segment the punctures are more evenly spaced ; mesopleura? 

 posteriorly, metapleurre and posterior face of middle segment smooth, 

 impunctate, or nearly so ; longer spur of hind tibia? not one-third as 

 long as the first hind tarsal joint; dorsal segments 1, 2 and base of 

 third with strong, separated, though not sparse punctures, tbose at 

 base of second and third segments finest and closest, apical portion 

 of dorsals 3-5 with large sparse punctures, sixth dorsal cribrose, 

 ventrals very sparsely punctured, the punctures of the last segment 

 finest, second ventral bituberculate at base. Body rufous; fiagellum 

 except basal joints, mandibles at tips, thorax on sides and be- 

 neath, and the dorsulum medially as a rule, and a narrow, somewhat 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



indistinct line at apex of dorsal segments 1-3, black ; pilosity red- 

 dish and rather sparse, that on the occiput pertaining to yellow ; 

 none of the abdominal segments fringed ; tegulae strongly punctured 

 on anterior half. Length 16-21 mm. 



$ . — Head strongly and evenly punctured throughout the front, 

 shallowly so on the occiput; antennae scarcely as long as the head 

 and thorax united, first and second joints of flagellum about equal 

 in length, the terminal joint rounded at apex (the antennae are de- 

 cidedly stouter than in the male of Drewseni) ; thorax strongly punc- 

 tured but rather more closely than in the female, and the posterior 

 face of middle segment with large punctures; abdomen closely 

 punctured particularly above, the last dorsal hardly cribrose ; second 

 ventral bituberculate. A yellow spot in the emargination of the 

 eyes, and the black on dorsulum and abdomen more generally dis- 

 tributed. Length 13-16 mm. 



Chapada (January, March and April). Eleven female and six 

 male specimens. The extent of black of abdomen and sides of thorax 

 is subject to variation : in two females the dorsal segments are almost 

 entirely black. The yellow spots on abdomen are constant in all 

 specimens, and may be regarded as a good superficial character in 

 distinguishing this species from Drewseni and allied species. 

 Elis vitripennis Sin. 



Chapada (March). Four specimens. 

 Elis regina Sauss. 



Chapada (January to April). Thirty-nine specimens, all females. 

 Elis nigra Sauss. 



Chapada (October,* February, March and April). Twenty-three 

 female specimens. 

 Elis lucida Lep. 



Two specimens from Chapada, collected in December and March 

 respectively, I refer with some doubt to E. lucida. The larger 

 specimen measures 27 mm. in length, whereas Saussure gives 38 mm. 

 Should my specimens be correctly determined, there is no reason for 

 considering this species as a variety of costulis, as suggested by 

 Saussure and Sichel on p. 219 of their catalogue, as it is clearly 

 distinct from that species. 



'Elis hyalina Lep. 



Represented in the collection by numerous specimens of both 

 sexes from Chapada (December, March and April). In addition to 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



the clear wings, the male of hyalina is distinguished from those of 

 costalis and Wesmaeli by the unusually prominent and pointed tu- 

 bercle at base of second ventral abdominal segment. 

 Elis costalis Lep. 



Chapada (March and April) ; Rio de Janeiro (November). Four- 

 teen females and numerous male specimens. The latter show con- 

 siderable variation in size and maculation, the spotted form, however, 

 is apparently rare. This form is the E. fallax Saussure, referred by 

 that author as a variety of E. hyalina. It should be placed with 

 costalis, however, in consequence of its heavy form and darker wings 

 and also by the shape of the ventral tubercle of abdomen. 



Elis Wesmaeli Lep. 



Chapada (December, February, March and April). Numerous 

 specimens of both sexes. 

 Elis cineraria Sichel. 



A large series, over one hundred specimens, is in the collection 

 from Chapada (November, March and April). The specimens 

 agree with the description of cineraria, except that there is no yellow 

 on the fourth dorsal or on any of the ventral abdominal segments. 

 Only males are represented ; and the series shows considerable vari- 

 ation in size, specimens measuring 16-30 mm. 

 Elis variegata Fabr. 



Chapada (March). Fourteen male specimens. These only vary 

 in that two specimens have the spots on the second dorsal segment 

 united. 

 Elis conspicua Sm. 



Four males. Santarem ; Chapada (March). These vary in length 

 from 12-20 mm.; and in the smaller specimens the pronottim ifl 

 partly yellowish, and in one the third dorsal abdominal segment is 

 bimaculated with that color. 

 Elis (Dielis) angulata n. sp. 



Close to consjticua, but dorsal segments 1-4 fasciate with yellow- 

 ish, thorax less shining, and pubescence of prouotum entirely pale 

 yellowish. 



9. — Black, mandibles medially, teguhe and tibia 1 and tarsi more 

 or less reddish-testaceous ; transverse spot on metanotum and a band 

 on dorsal segments 1-4, yellowish, the bands on tirst and fourth seg- 

 ments narrow, those on second and third greatly dilated medially 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



and emarginate anteriorly, at the sides narrowed ; pubescence pale, 

 that of the occiput and pronotum somewhat yellowish ; apical mar- 

 gins of dorsal and ventral segments 2-5 distinctly fringed, the color 

 of which fringe is white except on the dorsal segments medially and 

 the fifth ventral (which have it golden-brown) ; the first dorsal is 

 rather densely pubescent; clypeus punctured at the sides, bearing 

 two longitudinally parallel carina? down the middle ; front strongly 

 and closely punctured, the vertex and occiput, with exception of a 

 few scattered punctures, impunctate ; scape with scattered punctures ; 

 thorax subopaque, the dorsulum strongly punctured laterally and 

 anteriorly, impunctate medially ; scutellum and metanotum with 

 scattered punctures ; middle segment above with strong separated 

 punctures, with a smooth, longitudinal, narrow space in the middle; 

 posterior face concave, impunctate at extreme sides, the lateral mar- 

 gins somewhat sharply carinated ; spines of the legs whitish-testa- 

 ceous, calcaria darker ; hind tibia? beset with strong, black thorns 

 externally, their longer spur more distinctly spatulate than in con- 

 spicua; wings subhyaline, subfuscous anteriorly and apical ly, with 

 a purplish iridescence, nervures and stigma testaceous, apex of 

 second submarginal cell very sharply angular in the middle; dorsal 

 .segments punctured toward the sides, rather opaque, ventrals shining, 

 the second and third with two, and the fourth with one, transverse 

 series of strong punctures; pygidium nude, sculptured in such a way 

 as to appear shingled, its apical margin narrowly smooth and testa- 

 ceous. Length 17 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. The strongly angulated apex of sec- 

 ond submarginal cell and the maculation distinguish this species 

 from conspicua and auripilis. 



Elis (Dielis) auripilis n. sp. 



Likely to be confused with angulata, but differs in its golden 

 pubescence of front and dorsulum, the semi-yellowish wings and 

 strongly punctured occiput. 



9. — Black; mandibles reddish ; transverse spot on metanotum, 

 and a fascia on dorsal abdominal segments 1-4, or 5, yellow, those 

 on the second and third, or fourth broad, emarginate anteriorly and 

 narrowly incised with black at the sides, else a small black spot is 

 enclosed by the yellow on each side, on the first segment the fascia 

 narrow and sometimes interrupted medially, on the fourth more or 

 less variable, on the fifth narrow and inconstant; front, occiput, 

 pronotum and dorsulum bearing golden pubescence, that of cheeks, 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



clypeus, thorax beneath and legsgriseous ; dorsal segments 2-5 with 

 a fringe of golden-brown pubescence at apex, ventrals 2-5 with a 

 white fringe ; clypeus furrowed down the middle, bearing some 

 coarse folds anteriorly; front strongly and closely punctured, the 

 vertex with a few large, scattered punctures; occiput coarsely punc- 

 tured and posteriorly, in addition, bearing coarse folds or rugosities ; 

 scape with scattered punctures; pronotum except posterior margin, 

 strongly and closely punctured, bearing near each antero-lateral 

 angle a deep, oblique depression ; dorsulum with very large, rather 

 regularly placed punctures, which are but little sparser medially ; 

 scutellum smooth medially, strongly punctured at each side, the 

 metanotum impunctate; middle segment above somewhat prominent 

 in the middle at apex, the median division with large punctures 

 smooth at base, however, the lateral ones more finely punctured, 

 posterior face concave, smooth, at the sides creuulated, notcarinate ; 

 spines of medial and hind tibiae yellow, those of the tarsi and cal- 

 caria, whitish ; wings fulvo-hyaline, iridescent, particularly on apical 

 third, nervures and stigma fulvo-testaceous, apex of second submar- 

 ginal cell angular medially, but not sharply, the second transverso- 

 cubital vein being rather more sinuate than angulate ; dorsal segments 

 1-4 sparsely punctured medially, rather strongly and closely at the 

 sides, segment 5 strongly punctured throughout, ventrals shiny, 

 segments 2-4 with two transverse series of punctures, segments 5 

 and 6 more generally punctured, sculpture of the pygidia] area much 

 as in angulata, but finer, and when held in certain lights the pygi- 

 dium is clothed with a short appressed golden pubescence. Length 

 16-17 mm. 



Three specimens. Chapada (March). This seems quite distinct 

 from its allies in the color of the wings, which approaches that of 

 Saussure and Sichels " stirps Elidis vespiformis ; " those species have 

 the abdomen immaculate, however. 



Elis (Dielis) Smithii n. 8p. 



In maculation, similar to confluenta, but the thorax immaculate; 

 wings faintly yellowish along costa. 



9 . — Black ; mandibles in part reddish ; narrow transverse spot 

 on first and a large spot on each side of the second dorsal segments 

 orange, the spots on second segment almost united internallv, thereby 

 having the appearance of a band which is strongly emarginate in 

 the middle anteriorly; otherwise the abdomen black; insect with 

 pale pubescence, that on the vertex and dorsulum fuscous: dorsal 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



segments 2-5 and fifth ventral with a fringe of black pubescence, 

 ventrals 2-4 with a white fringe ; clvpeus furrowed down the middle, 

 strongly punctured laterally and basally, in the middle and ante- 

 riorly smooth ; front strongly and closely punctured, the punctures 

 of vertex large and scattered ; occiput with strong separated punc- 

 tures, but not rugose; scape with scattered punctures; pronotum 

 except posterior margin strongly and closely punctured, and with a 

 depression on each side as in auripilis, but less strong; punctures of 

 dorsulum coarse, close anteriorly, sparser at the sides, and in the 

 middle absent; scutellum and metanotum strongly punctured except 

 the apical portion which is smooth ; middle segment with the median 

 division strongly punctured laterally, smooth medially and a little 

 produced at apex, on each side of this median division the middle 

 segment is more finely and evenly punctured, the posterior surface of 

 the median division only smooth and shining, sides of posterior sur- 

 face creuulated; spines of the tibiae and the middle tarsi black, 

 calcaria and spines of hind tarsi whitish ; wings subhyaline irides- 

 dent, faintly yellowish along the costa, costal vein black, the others 

 testaceous, apex of second submarginal cell angulate in the middle; 

 •dorsal segments 1-3 with sparse, rather indistinct punctures, those 

 on the following segments closer and more distinct, especially on 

 -segment 4, ventrals shining, segments 2 and 3 with two, 4 and 5 

 with one, series of transverse punctures, sixth sparsely punctured ; 

 pygidial area coarsely longitudinally striate, not pubescent. Length 

 17 mm. 



One specimen. Coruinba (April). Distinguished from conspicua 

 which it resembles, by the immaculate thorax, distinctly puncthred 

 occiput, etc. 



Elis dorsata Fabr. 



Rio de Janeiro (November) ; Chapada (January, March and 

 April) ; Santarem (February) ; Corumba (April). Nineteen speci- 

 mens, all females. 

 Elis mutanda S. i S. 



Santarem. One $ specimen. I refer this specimen here with 

 hesitation. It measures but 17 mm., and the wings are bluish-purple ; 

 the second and third dorsals have a small, somewhat rounded, yellow 

 spot on each side. 



Elis iDielisi aureohirta n. sp. 



Beloogs evidently to Saussure and Sichei's " Stirps Elidis vespi- 

 formis" and differs from other species of that group (vespiformis, 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



brasiliana and Gerstaeckeri) by the dense fulvous pubescence with 

 which the pronotum and dorsulum are clothed. 



9 . — Black ; mandibles reddish in part ; head in front, occiput 

 and thorax above with long golden yellow pubescence, particularly 

 dense on the pronotum and anterior portion of dorsulum, the latter 

 in the middle nude, as well as middle of scutellum, metanotum and 

 upper surface of* middle segment ; thorax beneath, legs, first dorsal 

 and the ventrals more or less with long griseous pubescence, dorsals 

 1-3 with sparse pale pubescence longest at sides, the fourth, fifth 

 and sixth with black pubescence, dorsals 1-3 and ventrals 2-5 

 fringed with white pubescence at apex ; clypeua strongly punctured 

 basally, smooth medially, and bearing folds or ruga? on apical por- 

 tion ; front strongly punctured, transverse smooth space before the 

 ocelli; vertex with larger scattered punctures, which become closer 

 on the occiput; scape with a few scattered punctures; dorsulum 

 strongly punctured laterally and anteriorly, perfectly smooth and 

 polished medially; scutellum, metanotum and median divisions of 

 middle segment with large separated punctures at the sides, im punc- 

 tate medially; outer lobes or divisions of middle segment with finer, 

 shallower punctures, their punctures stronger in the middle of their 

 upper surfaces, the sides of which are sharply carinated, the carina? 

 not extending on the posterior surface ; spines of the legs and the 

 calcaria black ; wings fulvous, slightly bluish on apical portion, the 

 second transversa cubital nervure sinuated, pertaining to angular iu 

 some specimens; abdomen above with sparse, shallow punctures, 

 strongest toward the sides and on the first, fourth and fifth segments, 

 base of second, and sides of third, fourth and fifth ventrals with 

 strong punctures, the lateral punctures of third segment, however, 

 not reaching its base, the second and third with two, the fourth and 

 fifth with one, series of transverse punctures, sixth with finer, scat- 

 tered punctures; pygidial area longitudinally and irregularly rugose. 

 Length 16-17 mm. 



$ . — Colored like the female, but the abdomen bluish, the pubes- 

 cence of the body denser throughout, is finer, less yellow on the 

 thorax and is very dense in the middle segment ; form slender, simi- 

 lar to E.plumipes $ ; antenna." fully as long as head, thorax and 

 first segment of abdomen united, the first joint of flagellum distinctly 

 shorter than the second ; thorax on sides and beneath clothed with 

 a silky pile in addition to the long pubescence ; dorsulum and middle 

 segment on upper and posterior surfaces puuctured throughout ; legs 








1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



slender, the spines of hind und medial tarsi pale ; dorsal segments 

 1-4 with shallow, separated punctures, those of fifth, sixth and base 

 of seventh closer and deeper, theventrals sparsely punctured ; second 

 ventral at base not at all tuberculate. Length 15-17 mm. 



Chapada (March). Over one hundred specimens. Differs from 

 its allies including E. albofimbriata Smith, by the color of the thor- 

 acic pubescence. 

 Elis plumipes Dr. 



Chapada (November and March). Eight female specimens. I 

 am uncertain whether a large series of male specimens contained in 

 the collection from Chapada (March and October), Corumba (April) 

 and Santarem (November) belong to this species or to E. dorsata. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



THE MESENTERIES OF THE SATJRIA. 1 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



Examination of the literature shows that this subject has been 

 nowhere adequately treated. The most considerable paper is one 

 by Dr. F. E. Beddard in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society 

 of London for 1888. This, however, includes an examination of 

 a limited number of genera, (eight) only. The present paper is 

 founded on a study of most of the genera of all the families, except- 

 ing in the cases of the Gecconidae and Agamidre, where my oppor- 

 tunities have been more restricted. I am indebted for this material 

 to the U. S. National Museum, the collections of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and my own. 



A fold suspends the alimentary canal from the median dorsal line, 

 forming the dorsal or epigastric mesentery (E G). No other mesen- 

 teries, bind the alimentary canal, except the stomach, and sometimes 

 the adjacent portion of the small intestine, which have other connec- 

 tions. The liver, on the other hand, has several mesenteric connec- 

 tions, as follows : Its ventral face has usually a -ingle sheet connect- 

 ing it with the median ventral line, butin rare instances it is bifurcate 

 posteriorly (Scincidae generally), or even double (Tiliqua, LHV, 

 RHV). This sheet, or one of them, is continued along to the ante- 

 rior abdominal artery to the ventral wall, and sometimes along the 

 gall-duct to the pyloric part of the small intestine. Each border of 

 the liver is twice or thrice concave above, in adaptation to the 

 stomach and lungs in the types where the latter extend so far poste- 

 riorly, which is the usual arrangement. From the left hand ridge 

 thus produced, a sheet or mesentery extends to the stomach, form- 

 ing the gastrohepatic mesentery (GH). It is sometimes median 

 in position. From right hand superior angle a mesentery ex- 

 tends to the right dorsal body wall, forming the right hepatic 

 mesentery. The four mesenteries now described are the only 

 ones which are universally present, which bind the liver. The 

 following sheets are present in various types. Frequently the 

 right hepatic and the gastrohepatic give off sheets to the right 



1 Read before the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 

 Springtield meeting, Aug. 30th, 1895. 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



309 



and left lungs respectively, constituting the right hepatopulmo- 

 nary and gastropulmonary mesenteries (RHP. and GP.). A 

 sheet occasionally goes off from the gastrohepatic to the left body 

 wall, forming the left gastroparietal mesentery. This is frequently 

 represented by a narrow band, and occasionally, as in Dip-sosaurus, 

 it joins the small intestine just beyond the extremity of the gastro- 

 hepatic sheet. This is not represented on the accompanying dia- 

 gram. In Heloderma a distinct sheet extends from each border of 

 the liver to the body walls, forming the right and left lateral hepatic 

 mesenteries (LLH, RLH). In ChamoBleon, Polychrvs and Anolis, 

 the left lung besides being attached to the gastrohepatic mesentery, 

 is attached by a sheet to the left border of the liver, forming the 

 left hepatopulmonary mesentery, (LHP). 



Diagram of peritoneum of Sauria, with all the folds displayed by a 

 transverse section near the middle of the liver. L liver ; St. stomach : RL 

 right lung; LL left lung; EG epigastric peritoneal fold; LHV and RHV, 

 left and right hepatoventral folds ; RLH and LLH, right and left lateral 

 hepatic folds; RH, right hepatic; GH, gastrohepatic; LHP and RHP left 

 and right hepatopulmonary folds. 



In Varanus salvator there is a short median gastrohepatic sheet 

 (GH). In Varanus, owing to the anterior position of the lungs, 

 they have no hepatic or gastric connections. In no Saurian have 

 I observed a right hepatopulmonary sheet, as the right hepatic 

 mesentery supports the right lung. The latter extends along the 

 apical strip of the right lobe of the liver to the genital mesentery in 

 many genera. In Tupinambis, Draccena, and some others, the right 

 hepatic extends as a strong sheet to the right body wall, forming 

 with an equally strong gastroparietal of the left side, a kind of dia- 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



phragm. In many genera, the right hepatic sheet is connected with 

 the stomach, especially at its proximal part. 



Besides the hepatic and gastric mesenteries, there are those which 

 enclose the internal genitalia, the urinary bladder, and the corpora 

 adiposa. The genital mesentery is sometimes quite extensively 

 free, and is always so anteriorly, especially where it supports the 

 wide fontanelle of the oviduct. A mesenteric pouch encloses the 

 corpora adiposa, only in those forms where those bodies project 

 freely into the abdominal cavity, as is frequently the case. The 

 cystic mesentery is a transverse fold of the peritoneum which lines 

 the inferior wall of the pelvic cavity, which encloses the urinary 

 bladder, when it is present. 



Beddard has stated that in the genus Varanus there is a " hori- 

 zontal sheet" of mesentery between the viscera and the abdominal 

 peritoneum. This is an interpretation of the fact that the abdominal 

 peritoneum is loosely attached to the abdominal muscular sheaths, 

 and is readily separated from them. This sheet, however, presents 

 the usual relation of the abdominal peritoneum to the viscera, as 

 Beddard states, and appears to me to be homologous with it. J The 

 same condition caused Giinther 3 to state that in Regenia ocelhda the 

 corpora adiposa are enclosed in " a separate sac of the peritoneum," 

 whereas the former are not enclosed in a special sac as in some 

 other genera. 



In the ChamaBleonidee the mesenteries include the usual hepato- 

 ventral, epigastric, gastrohepatic and right hepatic, the last includ- 

 ing the right lung. The left lung is included in a left hepatogastric, 

 a feature seen in few other groups, notably in the Anoline Iguanida?. 

 There is also a left hepatolateral, from the liver to the left body 

 wall, having a direction diagonal to the long axis of the liver in C. 

 basiliscus. 



In the Nyctisaura I have been able to examine the mesenteries in 

 relatively few genera of the superfamily. I find in both Geccouidie 

 and Eublepharidse the structure to be of the type most frequent in 

 the Sauria ; i. e. ; a simple hepatoventral ; a single gastrohepa- 

 tic ; a left gastropulmonary ; and a right hepatic which embraces 

 the right lung. 



In the Agamidse the mesenteries present the usual sheet?, hepato- 

 ventral, gastrohepatic, left gastropulmonary and right hepatic, 



s Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1888, p. 98. 

 3 Loc. cit., 1861, March. 






1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



which includes the right lung. I have noted the following modifica- 

 tions : In Agama colonorum the left gastropulmonary has become a 

 right gastrohepatic by its continuing to the liver, a character ob- 

 served in Chamceleon and the Anolinse. There is also in this species 

 a left hepatomarginal. In Megalochilus auritus there is a right 

 hepatoventral, as in Phrynosoma. 



In the Iguanida? the hepatic mesenteries conform to the general 

 type, with certain exceptions to be mentioned. Thus there are no 

 right or left lateral hepatic mesenteries, and but one ventral. The 

 right hepatic supports the right lung. There is frequently a rudi- 

 mental right lateral hepatic which connects the long right apex of 

 the liver with the right body wall. There is a gastrohepatic which 

 generally spreads over the space enclosed in the bend of the stomach. 

 There is no left gastroparietal sheet or band. The most remarkable 

 deviation from this type (which I have verified in twenty genera) is 

 found in the Anolinse. Here the left lung, besides its superolateral 

 connection with the stomach, is connected by a special sheet with 

 the left part of the inferior face of the liver. Thus the latter organ 

 is suspended by two sheets to the left side of the middle line. In 

 genera where this is the case the two sheets are sometimes difficult 

 to distinguish owing to their easy adhesion together. They may be 

 separated by inserting a probe from the free caudad extremity of 

 the lung. 



Another variation from the normal type is seen in the presence of 

 a right lateral hepatic sheet in Phrynosoma and Polijchrus (in Poly- 

 clinic gutturosus it is wautiug in the one specimen examined). A left 

 lateral sheet is present on the cephalad half of the liver in Qyclura 

 eornnta and Polijchrus marmoratus. It is rudimental in Polyclinic 

 acutirostris, and wanting in P. gutturosus. There is a gastroparietal 

 baud in Cyclura cornuta, which is joined by the apex of the peritone- 

 um of the corpus adiposum. 



In the Anguidse the viscera do not display any exceptional 

 features, except as to the serpentiform genera. The mesenteries are 

 of the typical character, modified in Ophisaurus by the reduction of 

 the left lung. The hepatoventral sheet is very near the left margin 

 of the liver in Pseudopus apus, and the gastrohepatic and right 

 hepatic are near together when slack. 



In the Helodermatidse the mesenteries of Heloderma are charac- 

 teristic. There is a single hepatoventral, and the gastrohepatic has 

 the usual position. The right hepatic goes to the right side of the 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896- 



stomach, becoming a right gastrohepatic, and does not extend to the 

 dorsal peritoneum, a character in which it is unique in the Sauria. 

 Posterior to the middle of the liver they unite on the middle line, 

 as in the Teidse. The lungs are attached to the adjacent parts 

 of the gastric peritoneum by separate sheets, the right and left gas- 

 tropulmonary. Besides these there is a strong sheet on each side 

 extending from the superior side of the liver near the border, to the 

 body wall, forming the right and left hepatolateral. The right 

 hepatolateral does not extend along the right border of the liver 

 beyond the cephalad half. The right gastrohepatic continues along 

 the elongate right process of the liver to the genital fold of the 

 peritoneum, and the apex of this process of the liver sends a recur- 

 rent sheet backward, which forms with the former, a funnel-shaped 

 passage. This recurrent sheet might be regarded as a caudad 

 hepatolateral. Dr. Shufeldt states 4 that Heloderma possesses the 

 free ventral peritoneum found in Varanus, but this is not the case,. 

 as this structure is the usual one. 



The peritoneum forms a transverse fold at the posterior part of the 

 corpora adiposa, supporting the urinary bladder, and forming the 

 cystic mesentery. It is but loosely attached to the corpora adiposa, 

 which do not project freely from the body wall and hence have no 

 special peritoneal pouch. They are elongate and coarsely sub- 

 divided. 



In the Zonuridse the mesenteries in the genus Zonurus are of the 

 usual type. There are one hepatoventral, a gastrohepatic, a left 

 gastropulmonary, and a right hepatic which encloses the right lung. 



The mesenteric attachments of the liver are very characteristic- in 

 the Teidaa. There is but one suspensor, a median gastrohepatic. but 

 this bifurcates above the middle of the organ, and each half diverges, 

 and adhering to the caudad margin, extends to the lateral inferior 

 body wall on each side. In Tupinambis these sheets are united on 

 the median line for a distance posterior to the liver. The lungs are 

 each attached to the stomach by a separate sheet. The left hepato- 

 parietal sheet is always present in this family, but the right one is 

 feeble in some genera, and is easily ruptured, as for instance in 

 Cnemidophoru*. I have examined the genera Draccvrm, Tupinam- 

 bis, Callopi*tes, Amiva, Onemidophorus, Centropyx, T<ju$, Anadia 

 and Oreosaurus. 



* Proceeds. Zool. Soc, London, 1890, pp. 193-4. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



In the Scincidse, as in other families, in the serpentiform types the 

 liver and stomach occupy a position caudad to the lungs, and so the 

 latter do not appear in the mesenteric connections of the former, e. g. 

 Siaphus. The mesenteries are the usual ones, but one peculiarity is 

 very frequent though not universal in the family. The hepato- 

 ventral sheet is generally divided into two, a right and left sheet 

 next the liver, forming a pocket which opens caudad. In the 

 Tiliqua seincoides the two sheets only unite at the cephalic end of 

 the liver, remaining separate throughout. 



In the Anniellidse the viscera display the following characters. 

 The left lung is much smaller than the right lung and is proximally 

 fused with it, so that there is but a single lumen. Right lung much 

 enlarged and covering the alimentary canal below (ventrad). Liver 

 considerably posterior to heart, long and narrow, with a small left 

 lobe and a long right lobe extending to the reproductive cells. Gall 

 bladder enclosed by the liver and exposed inferiorly, i. e., occupying 

 a foramen as in the Diploglossa. Alimentary canal distinguished 

 into stomach, and a small and large intestine, without distinct colon. 

 Stomach without curvature; small intestine moderately plicated, 

 with lacertiform mesentery. Reproductive cells anterior, symmet- 

 rical ; kidneys symmetrical, posterior. There is a single gastro- 

 hepatic mesentery from the middle line of the liver, and no right 

 hepatic or lateral hepatics. Hepatoventral simple ; plates of epi- 

 gastric very loosely attached together. No pulmonaries at middle 

 of liver. 



The fusion of the lungs is a peculiarity that I have not noticed 

 elsewhere among the Sauria. The left lung is like a diverticulum of 

 the right, and posterior to the point of divergence from the latter is 

 bound to it by connective tissue to the extremity. This fusion is a 

 step nearer to obliteration than occurs in any of the serpentiform 

 genera of Teidae, Scincidse or Anguida?, where, though of reduced 

 size, it is distinct from the right except at its proximal extremity. 



In the Amphisbsenidse, as the left lung only is present in this 

 family, there is but one gastropulmonary mesentery. The liver has 

 a crescentic cross-section, and it is supported by two gastrohepatic 

 mesenteries (Amphisbcena alba and A. fuliginosa), or by only one, 

 and a right hepatic or hepatolateral, as it may be : (Rhineura florid- 

 ana). There is but one hepatoventral. The last described structure 

 also characterizes Euchirotes diporus. 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Since the above was written a paper has been published in the 

 Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London (1895, p. 702) by 

 Mr. G. W. Butler on the lungs of snakes, Amphisbsenidse, etc. Here 

 the fact of the suppression of the right lung in the Amphisbsenia is 

 pointed out. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



CATALOGUE OF THE SPECIES OF CERION, WITH DESCRIPTIONS 

 OF NEW FORMS. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA. 



The genus Cerion, or as it is commonly known, Strophia, is one of 

 the most characteristic forms of West Indian land-molluscan life. 

 With two exceptions the species are all insular; C. incanum and C. 

 Antonii only, the former from South Florida Keys, the latter reported 

 to be from Guiana, are continental. The Greater Antilles — Cuba, 

 Hayti and Porto Rico, with the Virgin Is. and the entire group of 

 the Bahamas, are inhabited by numerous species, with a multitude 

 of local races. South of the larger islands named, if we include 

 with Cuba the faunally dependent Cayman group and Isle of Pines, 

 but one single species is found, C. uva of Curacoa, singularly isolated 

 in characters as well as geographically. Jamaica is without a 

 species ; and the genus also fails in the Caribbean chain. 



In the main, each species is confined to some single island, or to a 

 series of adjacent keys or islets ; but there are numerous exceptions, 

 where forms unquestionably conspecific are found on several islands 

 separated by considerable distances. 



The species are subject to a remarkable range of individual and 

 local variation. Thus, many species vary from strongly and con- 

 spicuously ribbed to entirely ribless and smooth. In fact this is a 

 common variation, incontestable established by the series we have 

 examined of Cerion dimidiatum, C. columna, C. regina, C. uva, C. 

 maritimum, C. Sagraianum and many other species. Color is equally 

 variable, pure white species varying to heavily brown-mottled, and 

 this not in one, but in many of the species. Absolute size of adults 

 is almost as mutable as in Cyprcea ; and occasional individuals are 

 abnormally shortened by the premature assumption of the features 

 of maturity, giving them a stunted appearance. 



All of these considerations render the study of the species one of 

 unusual difficulty ; and the older authors, unacquainted with the 

 protean nature of the species, as with the usually restricted range of 

 each, often failed to properly discriminate them. Thus, the several 

 volumes of Pfeiffer's Monographia HeJiceorum Viventium are un- 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



reliable in dealing with many species, especially in respect to geo- 

 graphic distribution. 



An American writer on natural history, Mr. C. J. Maynard, 

 some years ago begun the study of this genus, and to his earliest 

 publication on the subject we owe the first clear statement of some 

 facts of prime importance : that the Cerions are excessively plastic, 

 and locally modified into a considerable number of species and sub- 

 species ; that the range of some of these forms is excessively limited ; 

 and that former authors had failed to discriminate many really dis- 

 tinct species, " lumping" them under a few old names; and finally, 

 that the aperture-armature, or " teeth " of the Cerions are variously 

 arranged, and furnish ground for the division of the genus into 

 several subgenera. Mr. Maynard, moreover, has discovered and 

 described a large number of most interesting species and varieties, 

 especially the Cayman Island group ; so that his work on this genus 

 has been an important one. However, in our opinion he has unduly 

 multiplied species and subspecies, basing them on characters we hold 

 to be too slight and inconstant, and his work is marred by inaccur- 

 acies of all kinds " too numerous to mention." 



Our object in preparing the present list has been primarily to place 

 before students a moderate estimate of the species of the group, 

 specific values being held neither in extremely narrow nor very 

 wide limits, but practically in conformity with the views represented 

 by the leading English and American couchological authors of to- 

 day. 



We have taken this occasion to place on record the results of a 

 careful study of a very large collection of shells of the genus, a 

 collection including numbers of shells which have been identified by 

 Bland, Swift, Pfeifter, Dohrn, Gruner and others, as well as acces- 

 sions, considerable in the mass, from Messrs. H. D. Van Nostrand, 

 S. Raymond Roberts, W. H. Dall, C. J. Maynard and others. 



The soft anatomy of the Cerions is still but little known. Dr. 

 Leidy, the Cuvier of American Zoology, has given figures of the 

 the anatomy of C. incanum Binn. 1 W. G. Binney has figured jaw 

 and teeth of the same species 2 and C. J. Maynard has more recently 

 published figures of the jaws and soft anatomy of a species from 

 the Cayman Is. 3 Leidy's figure unfortunately does not show the 

 various systems of organs separately, and it is difficult to interpret 



'Terrestrial Mollusks 1, pi. xv, tigs, ii-iv. 



-Terr. Moll. V. 



'Contributions to Seienee. Vol. I. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



the confused masses and ducts of the generative and digestive 

 tracts, shown crowded together. It appears, however, that the long 

 spermatheca duct bears a diverticulum, and the vas deferens is of 

 unusual length. Maynard does not seem to have been fortunate 

 in his preparations, and his figures afford no data of assistance to us. 

 The only species seen by us in the flesh is Cerion Yumaense P. & 

 V. f the specimens examined being part of the type lot received from 

 Mr. Henry Prime and corresponding to fig. 3 of pi. XL 



The penis" (p) is a moderately stout sack from the termination of 

 which the short retractor springs. Near the base of the penis the 

 vas deferens (v. d.) enters ; and this is of extraordi- 

 nary length as shown in the figure. The spermatheca 

 (sp.) has a long duct, without branch or diverticulum ; 

 and there is a large talon (J). Ovotestis not ob- 

 served. 



A transverse section of penis-sack some distance 

 above entrance of vas deferens shows a cavity with 

 bipartite or dumb-bell shaped section, filled with a 

 granular yellowish substance. 



It will be seen that this differs from Leidy's figure 



in lacking the diverticulum of the spermatheca duct. 



It agrees with it in showing an excessively long free 



portion of the vas deferens, inserted abnormally low on 



C Yumaense the penis ; and these will doubtless prove to be generic 



P. & V. characters widely sundering Cerion from all other 



genera of which the genitalia are now known. 



Subdivision of the Genus Cerion. 



Four groups of subgeneric value may be distinguished by concho- 

 logical characters. Strophiops only is known anatomically. 



I. Axial and parietal folds wanting, Eostrophia. 



II. Axial fold in angle at root of columella ; no parietal fold, 



Cerion s. str. 



III. Axial and parietal folds present, the latter near middle of 

 parietal wall, single and short, not over one-third of a whorl 

 long, Strophiops. 



IV. Axial and parietal folds present, the latter very long and 

 doubled, or short and interrupted, with an accessory denticle ; 

 rarely obsolete, Diacerion. 



4 The dissections and drawing are by Mr. Vanatta, 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The first and second of these groups consist, at present, of one 

 species each. Strophiop* is by far the most numerous in species. 

 We are unable to make any subgeneric division into long- and short- 

 toothed forms; the various species present a perfectly graduated 

 series. Maynardia Dall and Longidens Maynard are, therefore, in 

 our opinion, merely subordinate divisions of Strophiops. 



Genus CERION (Bolton, 1799.) Morch, 1850. 



Morch, Catal. Yoldi, p. 63. Dall. Bull. M. C. Z. XXV, No. 9, p. 120 

 Strophia Albers, 1850, not of Meigen, 1832. 



Subgenus EOSTROPHIA Dall, 1890. 



1. Cerion anodonta Dall.- 5 Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., Ill, p. 13, pi. 1, figs. 8c, 

 8d. 



Miocene : Silex Beds, Ballast Point and Old Tampa Bay, West 

 Florida. 



la. Cerion anodonta floridanum Dall* L. c, fig. 6. 



Miocene: Ballast Point. 



Subgenus CEBION 



Distribution, Curacoa. This is the most distinct of the subordin- 

 ate groups of the genus. The teeth of the inner whorls are frequently 

 absent. 



2. Cerion uva Linne\* Syst Nat. (10), p. 7fi">. Per., Hist., pL 153. f. 11-14. 

 Island of Curacoa ! The locality " Guadeloupe " is erroneous. 



2a. Cerion uva desculptum P. A V .* PI. XI. fig. 1. 



Curacoa. 



Subgenus STROPHIOPS Dall. 1894. 



Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Vol. XXV, p. 121 (October, 1894 . 



-f- Maynardia Dall, /. c. { type S. negh eta Mayn. . 



■\-Seniculus Maynard, Contrib. to Sci., 111. p. 17 type 5. mumia Brug.). 



-\-Umbouis Maynard. Contrib to Sci., 111. p. 28 type 5. scalarina Gundl ). 



■\-Pinguiiia Maynard, Contrib to Sci., 1 1 1, p- 30 ( type S. " dimidiatia " Pt"r. ). 



+ Longidens Maynard. Contrib. to Sci., III. p. 39 typo S. Mayn. i. 



■\-MuItostrophia Maynard, Contrib. to Sri., II. p. 177 type S. aimed Mayn.). 



Group of ('. pannosum (Longidens Maynard). 



Distribution, Cayman Island-. Maynard correctly separates this 

 group of species from typical Strophiops. 



3. Cerion nanum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci.. i. p. 27. 

 Little Cayman. 



5 Speeies and varieties marked with an asterisk * are represented in the col- 

 lection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



4. Cerion copium Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., i, p. 22. 

 Cayman Brae. 



4a. Cerion copium parvum Maynard.® Contr. to Sci., i, p. 24. 

 Cayman Brae. 



5. Cerion glaber Maynard.* Contr. to Soi., i, p. 25. 

 Cayman Brae. 



5a. Cerion glaber perplexum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., i, p. 11, 

 Cayman Brae. 



6. Cerion levigatum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., i, p. 12. 

 Little Cayman. 



S.festiva Mayn* t. c, p. 17, is a more variegated form. 



6a. Cerion levigatum acutum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., i, p. 15. 



6". nitela Mayn.,* t. c,, p. 73. 

 S. picta Mayn.,* /. c., p. 18. 



These seem to be very closely allied, differing from acutum merely 

 in size and degree of mottling. 

 Little Cayman. 



7. Cerion pannosum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., i, p. 10. 



S.fusca Mayn.* /. c. } p. 77. Seems to be the same thing differing only in 

 color. 



S. intermedia Mayn.* t, c, p. 13. A smaller form. 



Little Cayman. 



8. Cerion lineotum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., i, p. 20. 



Little Cayman. 



Group of C. maritimum. 



9. Cerion dimidiatum Pfr. Zeitschr. f. Mai., 1847, p. 18. 



P. proteus Gundlach mss., Pfr., Malak. Bl., VII, 1860, p. 19; Novit. Conch, 

 t. 66, f. 13-22. 



Gibara, Cuba. 



An altogether ribless form occurs. The species varies toward the 



following. 



10. Cerion incrassatum Sowb.* C. Icon., XX, pi. 1, f. 6. 

 Cuba, Gibara. 



10a. Cerion incrassatum microdon P. <fc V.* PI. XI, fig. 5. 

 Cuba. 



11. Cerion multicostum Kiistcr.* Conchyl. Cab., p. 77, t. 11, f. 6, 7. 

 Punta Maisi, Cuba. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



12. Cerion iostomum Pfr.* Malak. Bl., 1854, p. 204. 

 Southern Cuba. 



12a. Cerion iostomum Arangoi P. &, V.* PI. XI, fig. 12. 

 Cienfuegos, Cuba. 



13. Cerion Sagraianum Pfr.* Zeitschr. f. Malak., 1847, p. 15. 



S. marmorata Maynard, Contrib. to Sci., III, p. 12 (not of Pfr.!). 

 .S marmorata polita Maynard, Contrib. to Sci., Ill, p. 14. 

 S. obscura Maynard,* Contrib. to Sci., Ill, p. 21. 



. Cuba, Cayo Galindo, Cayo Piedra del Norte, Cardenas. 

 There are two forms of C. Sagraianum, one smooth (typical), the 

 other with fine riblets; but the distinction does not seem to be of 

 subspecific value, being too variable in the series before us. The 

 cone of the spire is always minutely sculptured. The intergradation 

 of S. obscura Mayn. is established by specimens before us. 



14. Cerion maritimum Pfr.* Archiv f. Natuvg., 1839, I, p. 353 ; Conchyl. Cab., t. 

 9,f. 10, 11. 



14a. Cerion maritimum sublaevigatum P. & V.* Proc. A. N. S., May 4, 1895, p. 

 209; Conchyl. Cab., t. 9, f. 12, 13. 



Matanzas, Cuba. 



15. Cerion incanum Binn.® Terr. Moll., II, p. 31S (1851). 

 P. detrita Shutt. , mss. 



Florida Keys ; Eastern Cuba. 



16. Cerion hyperlissum P. & V.* PI. XI. tig. 10. 

 Cuba. 



Group of C. regina. 



17. Cerion Weinlandi 'Kurr' Martens.* Malak. B!„ VI. 1S59. p. 207, Novit. 

 Conch., t. 84, f. 1.2. 



Crooked Id., Bahamas. 



18. Cerion nudum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., I. p. 29. 



Long Island. Near to C. Weinlandi, but smaller. 



19. Cerion incanoides P. & V.* Proc. A. X S., May 4. 1885, p. 209. PI. XI. fig. L5. 

 Turks Island. 



20. Cerion regina P. & V.* Proc. A. X. >.. L895, May 4. 208. PI. XI. figs. 23, 24. 

 Turks Island. 



20a. Cerion regina comes P. & V* Proc. A. X. S., 1895, .May i 

 Turks Island. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



20b. Cerion regina eucosmium P. &, V* Proc. A. N. S., 1895, May 4, p. 208. PI. 

 XI, fig. 21. 



Turks Island. 



20c. Cerion regina percostatum P. & V.* Proc. A. X. S., 1895, May 4, p. 208. PI. 

 XI, fig. 22. 



Turks Island. 



20d. Cerion regina Swiftii P. & V * Proc. A. N. S., 1895, May 4, p. 208. 

 Turks Island. 



20e. Cerion regina brevispirum P. & V.* Proc. A. N. S., 1895, May 4, p. 209. PI. 

 XI, fig. 25. 



Turks Island. 



21. Cerion regium Benson.* Ann. and Mag. Xat. Hist. 2d. Ser., IV, p. 125; Con- 

 chy]. Cab., t. 17, f. 13, 14. 



Pupa decumana of authors, not Fe"r. 



22. Cerion columna P. & V * Proc. A. N. S., 1895, May 4, p. 207. PI. XI, fig. 17. 



Inagua, Bahamas. 



22a. Cerion columna validum P. <fc V * Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1895, p. 207. 

 PI. PI, fig. 18. 



Inagua. 



23. Cerion calcareum Pfr. Zeitschr. f. Malak., 1847, p. 83; Conchy!. Cab., Pupa, 

 pi. 19, f. 4, 5. 



Habitat unknown. Probably will be found in the Inagua group. 



24. Cerion sarcostomum Pils. &> Van.* PI. XI, fig. 16. 

 Little iDagua. 



25. Cerion infandum ' Shutt.' Poey* Memor., II, p. 29-60 ; Malak. Bl., 1854, t. 

 3, f. 4, 5. 



Punta Gorda en Matanzas, Cuba. 



26. Cerion mumia Brug* Encycl. Meth., I, p. 348, N. 87, Fe>. Hist., 1. 153, f. 5, 6. 



S.fastigaia Maynard, Contrib. to Sci., 1896, Vol. Ill, p. 6, 7. 

 S. eurysloma Maynard, Contrib. to Sci., 1896, Vol. Ill, p. 7-9. 



Cuba. 



26a. Cerion mumia chrysalis Fer* Hist., t. 153, f. 1-4. 



S. scripta Maynard, Contrib. to Sci., iii, p. 34. 



S. scripta obhterata Mayn., Contrib. to Sci., iii, p. 5. 



S. media Mayn., Contrib. to Sci., iii, p. 18. 



Differs from mumia only in the insufficieut character of being 

 mottled in zig-zag pattern. The various forms described by Mayuard 

 are well represented in our series, with intermediate forms also. 

 Thev have no racial characters worth liamins:. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



26b. Cerion mumia magister P. & V.* PI. XI, fig. 4. 



Larger, stouter, more cylindrical, closely mottled and variegated ; 

 aperture large, with the lip broadly flaring, reflexed. 



Matanzas and other localities in eastern Cuba. This is probably 

 S. mumia Mayn., Contrib. to Sci., I, p. 190 ; not of Bruguiere. 



27. Cerion mumiola Pfr.* Archiv f. Naturg., 1839, I, p. 353; Malak. Bl., 1854, t. 

 3, f. 7, 8. 



Matanzas ; Bahia Honda, Cuba. 

 27a. Cerion mumiola major Pfr* Malak. Bl., 1854, t. 3, f. 6. 



Cuba. 



28. Cerion sculptum Poey. Memorias, II, p. 3d, pi. 2, f. 22. 



Cuba. 



Group of C. scalarinum. 



This is one of the most peculiar groups of the genus, unique in 

 the sculpture of fine spiral lines crossed by very prominent ribs. 

 Mayuard proposes for it the subgeueric name Ombonis, but we 

 would hardly accord the group so high a rank. 



29. Cerion scalarinum ' Gundlaoh ' Pfr. Xovit. Conch., p. 3G7, pi. S4, f. 16, 17. 

 Gibara, Cuba. 



30. Cerion Johnsoni Pils. & Van* Proc. A. X. S.. 1S95, May 4, p. 207. PI. XI, 

 fig. 30. 



S.faxoni Maynard, Contrib. to Sci., iii, p. 32. 



Cuba. 



31. Cerion felis P. k V.* Proc. A. N. S., 1895, May 4, p. 206. PI. XI. fig. 29. 

 Cat Island, Bahamas. 



Group of C. g la us. 



32. Cerion lentiginosum Mayn.* Contr. Sci., 1S89. Vol. 1. p. 75, t. 7. f. I s . 

 Rum Key, Bahamas. 



There is also a pure white form. 



33. Cerion album Maynard.* Contr. P.i.. 1889, Vol. 1. p. 71. t. 7, f. 17. 



Rum Key. A closely allied form with liver-brown lip occurs on 

 Eleuthera, but our specimens are only " crab shells," not suitable 

 for exact comparisons. 



33a. Cerion album Brownei Maynard.* Contr. to Soi., I. p. 196. 

 Rum Key. 



34. Cerion Abacoense P. A V* Proc. A. X. S.. 1895, May 4. p. 209. PI. XI. fig. 11. 

 Abaco, Bahamas. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



34a. Cerion Abacoense Bendalli Pils. & Van.* PI. XI, fig. 13. 

 Abaco. 



35. Cerion Ritchiei Maynard * Contr. Sci., 1894, Vol. 2. p. 135, f. 41 a. b. 



Highburn Key. 



35a. Cerion Ritchiei eburneum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., 1894, Vol. 2, p. 144. f. 

 45 a. b. Costa? slightly closer. 



U Key, Exunia group. 

 35b. Cerion Ritchiei elongatum Mayn. T. c. p. 148. 



Same locality as preceding, with which it is probably identical. 



35c. Cerion Ritchiei Grayi Maynard.* Contr. Sci., 1894. Vol. 2, p. 138, f. 42 a. b. 



S. Grayi gigantea Mayn., /. <r., p. 141, f. 44 a , Grayi pumilia Mayn. t. c. y p. 

 143, f. 44 b. 



Highburn Key, Bahamas. 

 35d. Cerion Ritchiei Vannostrandi P. A V r .* 



Similar to C. Grayi giganteum Mayn., but smooth and snow-white. 

 Aperture small, built forward, its margins not reflexed. Alt. 40, 

 diam. 16 mm. 



36. Cerion Maynardi P. & V* Proc. A.N. S., 1895, May 4, p. 210. PI. XI, fig. 31. 

 Abaco, Bahamas. 



37. Cerion griseum Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., 1894, Vol.2, p. 159, f. 51. 



S. glans Mayn.* t. c., p. 15, f. 50. Fresh Creek, Andros. 



S. bimarginata Mayn.* /. c, p. 164, f. 53. Green Key. 



5. bimarginata cera Mayn.* t. c, p. 168, f. 54. Green Key. 



S. Pilsbryi Mayn.* t. c, p. 170, f. 53. Goat Key. 



5. Pilsbryi evolva Mayn.* t. c, p. 173, f. 57. Goat Key. 



S. crassicostata Mayn.* mss. Andros. 



Type from about one mile N. of Calabash Bay, Andros. 

 37a. Cerion griseum regulum Mayn.* Contr. to Sci., 1894, ii, p. 161, f. 52. 



Fresh Creek, Andros. 

 37b. Cerion griseum restrictum Mayn.* Contr. to Sci., 1894, Vol. 2, p. 175, f. 58. 



Goat Key. 



38. Cerion glans Kuster* Conchy]. Cab., p. 74, t. 11, f. 1, 2. 



? Pupa tumidula Desh. in Fer. Hist., pi. 153, f. 8. 



5. Curtissii Mayn.* Contrib. to Sci., 1894, Vol. 2. p. 107, f. 33. Waterloo, 

 Nassau, X. P. 



,S". Curtissii nivea Mayn.* t. c, p. 112, f. 34 a, "Waterloo, Nassau, X. P. 



S. cinerea Mavn.* and varieties robusta, tracta and mutata, I. c, p. 119, f. 

 35-37. N. P. 



S. neglecta and var. a^ava Mavn.* /. c, p. 150, f. 47. X. P. 



S. Catlotta Mayn.* t. c, p. 156, f. 49. Fort Charlotte, X. P. 



S. albea Mayn.* t. c, p. 128, f. 28. Spruce Kev. 



S. Coryi Mayn.* t. c, p. 129, f. 39. X\ P. 



Nassau, New Providence, may be considered type locality for C. 

 glans. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



38a. Cerion glans Thorndikei Maynard.* Contr. to Sci., 1894, Vol.2, p. 116, f. 34, 

 b, c, d. 



Waterloo, Nassau, N. P. 



This variety, like the next is not trenchantly denned. 

 38b. Cerion glans varium Bonnet.* Rev. et Mag. Zool., XVI, 1864, p. 71, t. 6. 



P. zebra Weinland, Sowb., Conch. Icon , pi. 2, f. 12 a, b. (1875). 



New Providence. 



Under this head may be grouped the mottled and maculated forms 

 with comparatively delicate, narrow riblets. Intergradation with 

 the maculated forms with slightly stronger ribs, such as " cinerea 

 mutata," "Curtisii," "cinerea tracta," etc., of Maynard, may be 

 expected. Gods and men may well stand aghast at the splitting of 

 C. glans recorded above. 



C. griseum is doubtfully distinct from glans. We leave it separ- 

 ate, because in the average, the two are distinguishable, and they 

 inhabit different islands. 



39. Cerion martinianum Easter.* Conchyl. Cab., p. 75, t. 11, f. 3, 4. 

 Habitat ? 



40. Cerion Blandi Pils. & Van* PI. XI, fig. 7. 

 Turks Island. 



Group of C. Agassizii. 



41. Cerion Agassizii Dall* Bui. Mus. Comp. Zool., 1894, Vol. XXV, p. 120. 

 Nassau Ridge, New Providence, fossil in the calcareous sand-rock. 



42. Cerion Eleutherae P. A V.* PI. XI, figs. 19, 20. 

 Eleuthera. 



43. Cerion gubernatorium Oosse." Journ. Conch.. L869, p. 186 j -lourn. "''inch., 

 1870, t. 2, 1'. I, lower figure. 



New Providence, Bahamas. 



Group of C. crassilabre. 



44. Cerionrude Pfr.* Malak. BI., IT. 1855, p. L02, t. ... f. 1, 2. 

 St. Croix. A quaternary fossil. 



45. Cerion Yumaense P. £ V* Proc. A. \. S., L895, May 4. p. 210. 



S. ferrnginea Maynard, Contrib. to Sci., 1 *.'.'«;. Vol. III. p. 19-21. 

 Yuma River, Hayti. 



46. Cerion orassilabre Shuttlew.* Sowb.. Conoh, loon.. 20, t. 2. f. 14. 

 Porto Rico, Virgin Is. 



The locality given by Sowerby, "India" is a mistake. Porto 

 Rico may be considered the type locality, for here large specimens 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



such as that figured by Sowerby occur. They are either maculated 

 or unicolored. On Anagada a short, egg-shaped race is found. On 

 Keeker Island the shells are pure white, but white ones also occur 

 at Ponce and Puna, Porto Rico. 

 46a. Cerioncrassilabre Sallei P. & V.* PI. XL fig. 6. 



Small and cylindrical ; creamy, maculated on the terminal cone. 

 Alt. 19, diam. 7 - 5 mill. San Domingo (Salle). 



47. Cerion Antonii Kiister. Conchyl. Cab., Pupa, p. 92, pi. 10, f. 7, 8. 

 Berbice (British Guiana). 



This species is unknown to us. 



Group of C. cyclostomum. 



48. Cerion cyclostomum Kuster.* Conch. Cab., II, p. 6, t. 1, f. 5, 6. 

 ? Pupa Kusteri Pfr.,. Proc. Zool. Soe, 1852, p. 69. 



Cuba. 



49. Cerion pinerium Dall.* Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus. 1895. p. 6. 

 Isle of Pines. 



50. Cerion tenuilabre Gundl * Malak. Bl., XVIII. 1870. p. 91. 

 Barigua en Baracoa, Cuba. 



50a. Cerion tenuilabre pygmaeum Pils. A Van.* PL XI, fig. 9. 

 Gibara, Cuba. 



51. Cerion microstomum Pfr* Malak. Bl.. 1854. p. 207, t. 3, f. 15, 16. 

 Punta Jiacos, Cayo Paredon Grande, Cuba. 



52. Cerion Cumingianum Pfr.* Proc. Zool. Soc, 1852, p. 68. 



Hab. ? 



53. Cerion Gundlachi Pfr* Zeitschr. f. Malak., 1852, p. 175, t. 1, f. 39-42. 



Punta de San Juan, Cuba. 



Group of C. Martensi. 



54. Cerion Milleri Pfr * Malak. Bl. XIV, 1867, p. 129 ; Xovit. Conch., t. 84, f. 6-13. 



Duck Key, Exuma group. 



55. Cerion Gruneri Pfr .« Zeitschr. f. Malak., 1847, p. 15. 

 Sagua de la Grande, Cuba. 



56. Cerion venustum Poey. Memoria=, II, p. 30. 



Cuba. This species is unknown to us, and perhaps identical with 

 C. Gruneri. 



57. Cerion Martensi Weinl* Malak. Bl., IX, 1862, p. 164 ; Xovit. Conch., t. 84, f. 

 3-5. 



Crooked Island, Bahamas. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



58. Cerion eximeum Mayn.* Contr. to Sci., 1894, Vol. 2, p. 177. f. 59. 



Cat Island. We have a small form ; alt. 14J-18 mm. from San 

 Salvador. 

 58a. Cerion eximeum agrestinum Mayn.- Contr. to Sci., 1894, Vol. 2, p. 179, f. 60. 



New Providence. A pure white specimen was collected by Mr. W. 

 Bendall, and kindly presented to the Academy, with others varying 

 from sparsely to heavily marked. The claim of this variety to dis- 

 tinction rests solely on its locality. The shells of eximeum and 

 agrestinum are often indistinguishable. 



59. Cerion multistriatum Pile. <i Van. :: PI. XI. fig. 8. 

 Crooked Island. 



Group of C. vulneratum. 



60. Cerion inflatum Mayn. Contr. tu Sci., I, p. 126. 

 Galena Point, Auklin Is. 



61. Cerion marmoratum Pfr. Zeitschr. f. Mai.. 1847, p. 33 ; Conch. Cat., t. 19, f. 

 10-12. 



Cat Island, Bahamas (according to Bland.). 



62. Cerion vulneratum Kiiater.* Conch. Cat., \>. 161, t. 19. f. I 

 Gibara, Cuba. 



Subgenus DIACERION Dall, 1894. 

 Bull. Mus. Conip. Zool. 1894, Vol. XXV. p. U2. 



Group of C. striatelhnn (Paracfrion Pils. & Van., 1895.) 



See Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S95, p. 206. 



Distribution, Cuba. Maynard's name Tridentistrophia (Contrib. 

 to Sci., Ill, p. 9, 1896) is a synonym. The group has much affinity 

 with Diacerion, but the parietal folds are short. 



63. Cerion tridentatum 1'. a V. Proc. A. N. S., 1806, May 4, p. 206. Pl.XI.ng27. 

 Cuba. 



64. Cerion striatellum Fer. Icon. Regne Animal, Mull.. I, t. 6, 

 f. 12. 



Cabo Cruz, Cuba. 



65. Cerion basistriatum P. & V. Proo. A. X. S., May 1, 1895, p. . 

 Cabo Cruz, Cuba. 



Group of C. rubicundum (Diacerion Dall). 



Distribution, Inagua. The species or forms of this group form an 

 excessively complex problem, which is far from being satisfactorily 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



solved by the material yet studied. C. Bryanti, rubieundum and 

 Dalli appear to be stages in a continuous or almost continuous 

 series of variations. C. Dalli is the largest form, with the peculiar 

 armature of the aperture most highly developed. <3. rubicundumh 

 more slender, often much smaller, with the armature less developed 

 in many specimens. C. Bryanti is decidedly smaller, thinner, with 

 the teeth reduced to a mere vestige in the typical form, although 

 specimens occur which seem to establish its intergradation with rubi- 

 eundum in tooth arrangement. C. Bryanti may be regarded as a 

 stunted race of Diacerion which has re-assumed the characters of the 

 group Maynardia. 



C. Dalli varies from the fine-ribbed typical form with as many as 

 63 riblets on the last whorl, to a rather coarsely sculptured surface, 

 27 ribs on last whorl (40 specimens examined, including one of type 

 lot). 



< '. rubieundum varies in the same way, Maynard's S. ianthina and 

 S. pallida being coarse forms. Some examples before me are more 

 elongated and coarse-ribbed than Maynard's types of ianthina, but 

 the integradation effaces specific lines for these forms. 



There is likewise a very stout variety of C. Bryanti, and as already 

 mentioned, the specimens vary from almost toothless to the typical 

 Maynardia dentition, and onward toward the condition of C. rubi- 

 eundum. We are indebted to Mr. H. D. Van Nostrand for a large 

 series of these species and varieties. 



66. Cerion Bryanti Pfr* Malak. Bl. XIV, 1867, p. 130; Novit. Conch., t. 84, f. 14, 

 15. 



Inagua. 



67. Cerion rubieundum Menke.* Catal. Malsb., p. S; Conchyl. Cab., t. 9, f. 8, 9. 



S. ianthina Mayn.* Contr. to Sci., 1889, Vol. 1, p. 69, t. 2, f. 13. 

 S. pallida Mayn* Contr. to Sci., 1889, Vol. I, p. 70, t. 2, f. 14. 



Great Inagua. 



68. Cerion Dalli Mayn.* Contr. to Sci., Vol. 1, 1889, p. 128, 1. 13, f. 23. 

 Great Inagua. 



69. Cerion cylindricum Mayn. Contr. to Sci., 1896, p. 34-36, pi. 7, figs. 3, 4. 

 Great Inagua. \Ve have not seen this form and know nothing of 



its status. 



70. Cerion duplodon P. & V.* PI. XI, fig. 26. 

 Bahamas. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



UNDESCRIBED OR UNRECOGNIZED SPECIES. 



S. orbicularis Maynard. Contr. to Sci., I, pi. 16, f. 6a, b. Un- 

 described ; no locality assigned. 



S. viola Maynard. Contr. to Sci., I, pi. 16, f. 5a, b. Undescribed ; 

 no locality assigned. 



Pupa capillaris Beck. Index Molluscorum, p. 82. Undescribed. 

 "I. Antill." 



Pupa elegans Beck. Index Molluscorum, p. 82. Undescribed. 

 " I. Antill." 



Pupa conus Beck. Index Molluscorum, p. 82. Undescribed- 

 " I. Antill." 



Pupa strobilus Beck. Index Molluscorum, p. 82. Undescribed. 

 " I. St. Domingo." 



Helix (Cochlodonta) decumanus For., Prodr., p. 59 (undescribed) 

 =Pupa decuman a Gray, Ann. of Philos., N. ser., 1825, IX, p. 413, 

 referring to Lister, pi. 588, f. 47, is unrecognizable with any reason- 

 able degree of certainty, but may be Pupa multicosta Kiister. 



Turbo alvearia Dillwyn, Descript. Catal., II, p. 8Q2,=Bulimua 

 JususBrug., Encycl. Meth., I, p. 348,=Lister, pi. 588, f. 49, is an 

 unrecognizable form, similar to Gibbus palanga. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN SPECIES AND 

 VARIETIES.' 



Cerion uva desculptum. PI. XI, fig. 1. 



Shell similar to C. uva, but differs in lacking the strong, regular 

 ribs characteristic of that species, or in having them very few, weak 

 and irregular. 



Alt. 22, diam. 9; apert. alt. 7£, width 6$ mm. 



Alt. 19, diam. 9 ; apert. alt. 7, width 6 mm. 



Curacoa. 



A sectionized specimen shows no internal sets of lamina?, but these 

 are frequently wanting in specimens of the typical C. uva. Of the 

 latter a good many figures have been published. 

 Cerion inorassatum microdon Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XI, fig. 5. 



Shell varying from cylindric to'stout oval, strong and solid : whit- 

 ish with some inconspicuous gray flecks. "Whorls 8J to 9*, the first 

 one smooth, next finely and regularly costellate, following whorls 



6 See also Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1895, p. 206. Separate copies issued 

 May, 4, 1895. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



with coarser riblets becoming regular, curved, moderately coarse 

 ribs on the cylindrical portion, on base of last whorl obsolete or sub- 

 obsolete. Latter 3 to 4 whorls of about equal diameter, those above 

 forming rather a long cone. Aperture rounded, truncate above, 

 white within. Peristome white, narrowly expanded and reflexed, 

 obtuse ; parietal callus very thin or moderate. Axial fold incon- 

 spicuous from in front ; parietal tooth extremely small, short. 



Alt. 21?, diam. 10? ; alt. of aperture 8'} mm. 



Alt. 19 J, diam. 9i ; alt. of aperture 8 mm. 



Alt. 18?, diam. 10 ; alt. of aperture 7 mm. 



Cuba. 



While this species is very much smaller than C. inerassatum, and 

 has the parietal tooth extremely small or almost obsolete, still in 

 figure and sculpture it resembles the larger shell, and may be con- 

 sidered a variety of it until further information is received. 



C. inerassatum, like the very closely allied C. dimidiatum, has a 

 smooth form which intergrades with the stoutly ribbed typical 

 shells. The earlier whorls have the minute sculpture as in the type 

 form, but to the unaided eye the surface appears smooth. 



Cerion iostomum Pfeiffer. PI. XI, fig. 14. 



This species has not been figured. It was described from the 

 south coast of Cuba living among Prickly Pears. Subsequently it 

 was reported from Turk's Island and Great Inagua (see Bland, 

 Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist., N. Y., XT, p. 85), but having examined spec- 

 imens from these localities, so labelled by Bland, we find them to be 

 totally distinct species, having little save the purplish-brown color 

 of the mouth, in common with the true Pupa iostoma of Pfeiffer's 

 first description. 



The specimen shown in our figure answers to the description of 

 Pfeiffer in all respects save that the median whorls are only obsoletely 

 ribbed, hardly " distanter plicato-costata " — more like the " var. ft." 

 The post-nepionic whorls of the cone are " conferte costulatum ; " the 

 cone itself " corneo-marmoratum ", suture conspicuously " exserto- 

 marginata" and the corrugation of last whorl and color of aperture 

 (" intus violacea ") are likewise in agreement. The specimen figured 

 is 2 mm. shorter than Pfeiffer's. Alt. 30, diam. 12 ; alt. of aperture 

 12 mm. 



Pfeiffer's type measured, alt. 32, diam. 12; alt. of aperture 13 mm. 

 22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Cerion iostomum Arangoi Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XI, fig. 12. 



Shell similar to the type in form, but smaller. Latter two 

 whorls only of equal diameter, those above forming a rather long 

 cone. "Whorls 82 to 9. Surface closely and regularly ribbed through- 

 out (except the smooth nepionic whorls), the ribs mainly white, 

 interstices purplish-brown, mottled with white. Sutures without 

 noticeably exserted margination. Aperture deep, rich purple 

 within. 



Alt. 23s, diam. 10$; alt. of aperture 9 mm. 



Alt. 181, diam. 9 ; alt. of aperture 8 mm. 



Alt. 24, diam. 101 ; alt. of aperture 91 mm. 



Cienfuegos, Cuba (R. Arango). 



Strikingly different from iostomum at first sight, but we believe it 

 to be closely allied and probably a subspecies thereof. 

 Cerion hyperlissum Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XI. fig. 10. 



Shell moderately strong, much elongated, cylindrical, the latter 

 four whorls of about equal diameter, those earlier gradually taper- 

 ing, forming an obtuse cone with slightly convex outlines. Pinkish- 

 brown (with more or less white maculation), the riblets white. 

 Whorls 11], weakly convex, those of the cone smooth, the rest 

 sculptured with rather fine riblets narrower than the intervals, 

 about 36 in number on each of the several later whorls. Umbilicus 

 a short rimation, compressed. 



Aperture ovate, decidedly higher than wide, the throat flesh-tinted. 

 Peristome white, well reflexed and revolute, thickened ; parietal 

 callus light, its edge hardly thickened ; parietal fold median, very 

 long, one-fourth to one-third of a whorl in length. 



Alt. 322, diam. 10; alt. of aperture 12 mm. 



Alt. 292, diam. 10; alt. of aperture 11 mm. 



Cuba. 



This species has the unusually long parietal tooth of the Cayman 

 Island Cerions. For the rest, it does not differ remarkably from 

 such Cuban forms as C. maritimum. The whorls of the cone are 

 ribless. 



A form also referable to this species is much striped and maculated 

 with fleshy-brown and white, the riblets being finer. 

 Cerion regina Pilsbry A Vanatta. PI. XI, figs. 23, 24. 



Shell thick, subcylindrical, gradually tapering above, the long 

 terminal cone passing gradually into cylindrical portion : lower 3 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



whorls of about equal diameter ; apex obtuse ; earlier whorls not 

 striate; chalk-white and dull, the smoothness of the surface but little 

 broken by slight growth-lines, the basal whorl irregularly and rather 

 distantly costate, at least on its latter half. Whorls 10 to 10?, flat, 

 with superficial, seam-like sutures. Last whorl suddenly asceuding in 

 front, much compressed and pinched toward the base. Umbilicus 

 open or perforate, with the usual arcuate rimation, below which it 

 is broadly excavated and flattened. 



Aperture oblong-cordate, slightly less than one-third the length 

 of shell, higher than wide, dark or light brown within, rarely pur- 

 plish. Peristome expanded and reflexed, its face convex but not 

 much thickened, whitish, parietal callus moderate, its outer edge not 

 raised. Axial lamina situated high, narrow and inconspicuous from 

 in front. Parietal tooth low, small, varying from moderately short 

 to long, central in position. 



Alt. 31?, diam. 11 J mill. 



Alt. 33, diam. 12i mill, (average typical specimen). 



Alt. 38, diam. 13 mill. 



Turk's Island, Bahamas. (Gabb, Swift). 



Cerion sarcostomum Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XI, fig. 16. 



Shell solid and strong, subcylindrical, but slightly wider below; 

 whitish. Whorls 11 to 11 J, slightly convex, the earlier 6 forming 

 a convexly tapering cone with extremely obtuse apex, almost dome- 

 shaped at top ; passiug gradually into the cylindrical portion of 

 shell, which consists of 5 to 6 whorls. Sculpture, somewhat irreg- 

 ular and unequal, straight ribs, about as wide as the intervals, about 

 25-30 on last whorl. These ribs are strongly developed on the 

 cylindrical portion of the shell, but the cone is very densely, finely 

 and sharply striated, the earliest whorl only being smooth. 



Aperture small, less than one-third the total length of shell, pink- 

 ish-flesh colored in the throat; peristome well reflexed, recurved, 

 more or less thickened on the inner edge of the face ; parietal callus 

 thick and heavy, its edge elevated. Parietal tooth rather strong and 

 moderately long ; axial fold moderately conspicuous. 



Alt. 34, diam. 1 1 A ; alt. of aperture 10 mm. 



Little Inagua, Bahamas. 



Some specimens are larger than the above dimensions ; one worn 

 and broken " crab-shell " before us would probably be not less than 

 40 mm. alt. if perfect. It is not unlikely that forms occur with the 

 ribs obsolete, as in the allied C. columna. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



C. sarcostomum clearly belongs to the immediate group of C. creta- 

 cenm and C. columna. The latter has a very dark aperture, broadly 

 flanged lip and less obtuse apex. C. cretaceum lacks sculpture except 

 on the basal whorl, is absolutely cylindrical, with light mouth and 

 excessively short terminal cone, while the present species is more 

 tapering, with the cone decidedly longer, gradually passing into the 

 cylindrical portion. 



This species is, we believe, the first one to be reported from Little 

 Inagua. It is extremely likely that C. cretaceum, described without 

 locality, will prove to inhabit some part of the Inagua group, when 

 it is re-discovered. 



Cerion Abacoense Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XT, fig. 11. 



Shell cylindrical, solid and strong, entirely white. Latter three 

 whorls of about equal diameter, preceding one slightly smaller, those 

 earlier rapidly tapering to form a short cone ; apex obtuse. Sculpt- 

 ured with rather close, strong and nearly straight riblets, as wide as, 

 or narrower than the interstices, numerous (31-38 on last whorl), 

 part of the riblets generally splitting on the base ; li to If nepionic 

 whorls free from riblets, and those of the following several whorls 

 very fine, though distinct. Whorls 9f to 11], slightly convex, the 

 last ascending as usual. Sutures well-marked. Umbilicus a nearly 

 straight rimation terminating in an almost closed axial chink; um- 

 bilical area (back of columellar lip) small, with a bounding furrow 

 below. 



Aperture vertical, brought forward almost to anterior level of the 

 cylinder ; rounded, nearly as wide as high, obliquely truncate above. 

 Peristome well reflexed, recurved, its face thickened and convex ; 

 parietal callus heavy, but thinned at outer edge. Axial fold moder- 

 ate, parietal fold deep seated, low, and rather long. 



Alt. 34, diam. 13 ; alt. of aperture 12 mm. (largest specimen). 



Alt. 27*, diam. 13 ; alt. of aperture llf mm. (shortest specimen). 



Abaco, Bahamas. 



This beautiful species differs from C. album Maynard and C. 

 Maynardi Pils. & Van. in the characters of the umbilical region and 

 lip, as stated in our former paper on Cerion. 7 

 Cerion Abacoense Bendalli Pilsbry & Vanatta. PL XI. fig. L3. 



A miniature A baeoensi (</. v.) in shape and sculpture. Whorls 10 

 to 10}. White, closely mottled with brown, the nepionic whorls 



7 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1895, p. 209. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



corneous-brown. Aperture dark brown within; peristome white, 

 less heavy; parietal callus thin, translucent; parietal tooth very 

 small, short. 



Alt. 19 J, diara. 8J ; alt. of aperture 7 mm. 



Alt. 21?, diam. 8f ; alt. of aperture 7 mm. 



Abaco, Bahamas. 



This form at first sight looks extremely different from C. Abacoense, 

 and as we have seen no intermediate examples it may well prove to 

 be a distinct species. However, we consider it best to rank Bendalli 

 as a subspecies, thereby keeping in sight its genetic relationship with 

 the larger form ; this might otherwise be easily overlooked, on 

 account of its maculated coloring, which would at first incline one 

 to look to another group of forms for its allies. 



It is named in recognition of the services to science of Mr. Wil- 

 fred Bendall, who has recently published a list of the land snails of 

 the Bahamas. 



Cerion Eleutherae Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XI, figs. 19, 20. 



Shell solid and strong ; smoothish above, ribbed below ; color 

 lusterless ; white, with a bluish-purple tint, most obvious around the 

 base, cylindrictapering, terminating above in a rather long slightly 

 convex-sided cone which passes gradually into the cylindrical por- 

 tion. Apex obtuse ; whorls 101 to 12? ; nepionic 2} whorls nearly 

 smooth, slightly convex ; following whorls of the cone smoothish to 

 the naked eye, showing rather irregularly spaced wrinkles under the 

 lens, flat, with seam like sutures, not in the least impressed. Latter 

 4 whorls approaching equality in diameter, subregularly and rather 

 strongly costate (at least the lower two whorls), the last one with 

 about 27 (22 to 30) ribs, which do not split or double on the base, 

 although sometimes there are some riblets intercalated there. 



Aperture about one-third the shell's length, oblong or rounded, 

 obliquely truncate above, liver-brown within. Peristome white, re- 

 flexed, the outer edge sharp and some \ hat recurved, inner edge 

 built far forward, especially below, bevelled outwardly; parietal 

 callus either very thin or thick. Axial fold variable in prominence ; 

 parietal tooth very strong, long. Axis perforate, with a rather 

 short rimation. 



Alt. 29, diam. 1H ; alt. of aperture 11 mm. 



Alt. 33, diam. 11 ; alt. of aperture 11 mm. 



Alt. 23?, diam. 11 ; alt. of aperture 9 mm. 



Eleuthera, Bahamas. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



This species is closely allied to C. Agassizi Dall and C. guberna- 

 torium Crosse, of the island of New Providence. It has more 

 remote affinity with C. sarcostomum P. & V. of Little Inagua. 



From C. Agassizi it differs in never having the parietal callus 

 raised in a strong ridge making the peristome continuous ; the ribs 

 are less sharp and narrow, etc. C. gubernatorium has a proportion- 

 ally very large mouth, less thickened lip, finer riblets or none, and 

 a glossy surface ; moreover, while nearly white examples occur, it is 

 generally much variegated. There can be no doubt of the close 

 relationship of the three species, but judging from a series of 25 

 examples of C. Eleutherce, a good series of C. gubernatorium and 

 author's examples of C. Agassizi, they are specifically distinct. 



A pair of specimens of C. Eleuthera before us (from Krebs) are 

 considerably streaked with brown, otherwise typical. Another spec- 

 imen, received from Mr. Van Nostrand, is very small, alt. 18j, diam. 

 8 mm., and somewhat maculated. The costulation extends further 

 up, and the peristome is not thickened. This probably represents a 

 subspecies. 

 Cerion Blandi Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XT, fig. 7. 



Shell solid and strong, cylindric-tapering, the latter 3 whorls ap- 

 proaching equality in diameter, those above slowly tapering to form 

 a long cone, gradually passing into cylindrical portion. Light 

 grayish, with inconspicuous white flecking. Whorls 10, the nepionic 

 2k corneous, smooth, the following 2* weakly, distinctly ribbed, latf r 

 4] to 5 whorls very zh<tr}>lij mid roughly, strongly ribbed, ribs narrow 

 and high, 19 to 22 on each of the two or three later whorls. Um- 

 bilicus compressed, rimate, the area behind columellar lip excavated] 

 smooth. 



Aperture ovate, white within ; peristome reflexed and recurved, 

 not thickened ; parietal callus heavy, forming a strong bar across 

 the space between lip ends. Parietal tooth median, moderately 

 strong. 



Alt. 27], diam. 11 ; alt. of aperture 10] mm. 



Alt. 26:], diam. 11 ; alt. of aperture 10 mm. 



Turk's Island, Bahamas. 



This species resembles C. ghtns in general figure and the stout 

 parietal callus; but the ribs are conspicuously different, peculiarly 

 rough and unfinished in appearance, somewhat like ('.fell*. 

 Cerion tenuilabre pygmaeum Pilsbry >t Vanatta. PI. XI. fig. 0. 



Shell small and rather thin, varying from eylindrie to short oval. 

 Whorls 7 to 8], the latter 2 to 3 of subequal diameter, those above 




1 896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



forming a stumpy (often very short) cone. Rusty brown. Surface 

 regularly costellate; apical whorl smooth, next whorl finely and 

 regularly striated. Last whorl ascending as usual in front, having 

 a very short umbilical rimation below. 



Aperture brownish within, rounded, obliquely truncate above. 

 Peristome white, blunt, slightly expanded; parietal callus thin. 

 Axial fold inconspicuous ; parietal tooth deep within and extremely 

 small. 



Alt. 10, diam. 6£ ; alt. of aperture 4 mm. 



Alt. 12, diam. 7 ; alt. of aperture 5 mm. 



Alt. 15f, diam. 7* ; alt. of aperture 6 mm. 



Alt. 14f, diam. 6J ; alt. of aperture 5 mm. 



Gibara, Cuba. 



The short, typical form of this variety is extremely peculiar in 

 shape, being shorter than any other Cerion. Longer examples are 

 more like C. tenuilabre, of which we consider it a small variety. 

 Many specimens are before us. 

 Cerion multistriatum Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XI, fig. 8. 



Shell small and rather thin, short cylindrical ; white, longitudin- 

 ally marbled with gray or chestnut-brown. Whorls 8 to 8j, the 

 latter 2 or 3 about equal in diameter, the rest rapidly tapering, apex 

 obtuse. Sculptured with excessively fine, close, sharp thread-like 

 stria?, apical 2 whorls smooth. Aperture rounded obliquely, trun- 

 cate ; peristome narrowly reflexed ; parietal callus very thin ; axial 

 fold median, moderate ; parietal tooth extremely small. 



Alt. 17, diam. 7 ; alt. of aperture 6? mm. 



Alt. 14, diam. 7 ; alt. of aperture 5 mm. 



Crooked Island, Bahamas. 



This is a small, extremely fine striated form with very small 

 parietal tooth. It is represented in the collection of the Academy 

 by only five specimens, given by Mr. H. D. Van Nostrand, and 

 originally from Bland. 

 Cerion basistriatum Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XI, fig. 28. 



Shell rather thin, cylindrical, the latter three whorls of about 

 equal diameter, those above tapering rapidly, forming a straight- 

 sided cone about one-third the shell's length. Surface rather smooth 

 and glossy. Two corneous nepionic whorls smooth ; succeeding one 

 or two turns densely and regularly striated ; rest of the shell smooth 

 except for slight irregular growth-wrinkles, down to the last whorl, 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896.. 



which is finely costulate. Color white with irregular longitudinal 

 streaks aud blotches of brown. Whorls 9, hardly convex, the last 

 ascending slowly in front, rounded below, with a short umbilical 

 riniation. Aperture about four-tenths the shell's length, rounded- 

 ovate, nearly as wide as high, brownish within. Peristome thickened, 

 outer lip expanded but scarcely reflexed, columellar lip reflexed ; 

 * the terminations connected across the parietal wall by a strong, 

 elevated callous ledge. Axial lamina small as seen from the mouth ; 

 parietal lamina small, often double, moderately long; a small denti- 

 cle to the left of, and an elongated lamina behind and to the right 

 of its inner end. 



Alt. 18, diam. 9 ; apert., alt. 7, width 6'. mm. 



Alt. 16], diam. 8; apert., alt. 6, width 5] mm. 



( abo Cruz, Cuba. 



This species differs from C. tridentatum in its round aperture with 

 strong parietal callus, and the costulate basal volution ; from ( '. 



striatellum it differs in the much Bn ther surface, thinner substance, 



etc. The arrangement of parietal plica- is of the same type as found 



in the two species mentioned. 



Cerion tridentatum Pilsbry A Vanatta. PI. XI. fig. '27. 



Shell moderately thick, strong, cylindrical, the latter three whorls 

 of about equal diameter, those preceding tapering to form a long 

 cone about one-third the total length of shell. Chalky-white, 

 mottled with corneous, especially on the cone, rather polished, the 

 surface smooth except for slight growth-wrinkles, but a few whorls 

 following the two smooth, corneous nepionic ones are seen under a 

 strong lens to be densely striated, and the base of the last whorl lias 

 irregular striae. Whorls 10. with just perceptible convexity, sutures 

 well marked below. Last whorl ascending as usual. 



Aperture ovate, about four-tenths the total length, much higher 

 than wide, light brown in the throat; peristome rather thin, nar- 

 rowly reflexed, white; columellar margin well reflexed; parietal 

 callus thin, its edge indistinct, axial lamina small or inconspicuous 

 from front aspect. Parietal lamina small, short, central, with a still 

 smaller accessory denticle to the left of and beyond its inner termi- 

 nation, and another slightly to the right and deeper within : all 

 visible without cutting the shell. Umbilical riniation short and 

 curved. 



Alt. 27 •, diam. 10; apert., alt. 11, width 83 mm. 



Alt. 25, diam. 9 ; apert., alt. 10. width 7j mm. 



Cuba (Robert Swift colln., A. N. S. P.). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIEN< I> OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



This species superficially resembles closely the C. incanum of Key 

 West, but differs in the ovate form of the aperture, sculpture of the 

 earlier whorls, and the teeth of the aperture. 

 Cerion daplodon Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. XI, fig, 26. 



Shell rather thin, cylindrical, the latter three whorls of about 

 equal diameter, those above slowly tapering to form a rather long, 

 convex cone. White, variegated with gray- white. "Whorls 10J, 

 slightly convex, two nepionic smooth, those of the cone very finely, 

 sharply striate, the latter four with coarser riblets, much narrower 

 than their intervals. Umbilicus a short, compressed rimation. 



Aperture ovate, large and open, white, higher than wide. Per- 

 istome expanded and recurved, rather thick; axial fold basal; 

 parietal fold narrow, nearly a half whorl long; an acccessory fold 

 ascends around the root of the columella, but at the apertural termi- 

 nation approaches close to the main parietal lamella. 



Alt. 29, diam. 10? ; alt. of aperture 11 mm. 



Bahamas, exact locality unknown. 



This is an albino form of the Diacerion group, differing from C. 

 rubicundum and its immediate allies in the greater distance between 

 the two parietal lamellae within. 



Plate XI. 



Cerion urn desculptum Pils. & Van. 



Cerion Yuma( nst Pils. & Van. 



Cerion mumia magister Pils. ct Van. 



Cerion incrassatum microdon Pils. & Van. 



Cerion crassilabre Sallei Pils. & Van. 



Cerion Blandi Pils. & Van. 



Cerion multistr latum Pils. & Van. 



Cerion tenuilabre pygmceum Pils. & Van. 



Cerion hyperlissum Pils. & Van. 



Cerion Abacoense Pils. & Van. 



Cerion iostomum Arangoi Pils. & Van. 



Cerion Abacoense Bendalli Pils. & Van. 



Cerion iostomum Pfr. 



Cerion incanoides Pils. & Van. 



Cerion sarcostomum Pils. & Van. 



Cerion columna Pils. & Van. 



Cerion columna validum Pils. & Van. 



Cerion Eleutherce Pils. & Van. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Fig. 21. Cerion regina eucosmium Pils. & Van. 



Fig. 22. Cerion regina percostatum Pils. & Van. 



Fig. 23, 24. Cerion regina Pils. <fe Van. 



Fig. 25. Cerion regina breoispirum Pils. & Van. 



Fig. 26. Cerion duplodon Pils. & Van. 



Fig. 27. Cerion tridentatum Pils. & Van. 



Fig. 28. Cerion basistriatum Pils. & Van. 



Fig. 29. Cerion felis Pils. & Van. 



Fig. 30. Cerion Johnsoni Pils. it Van. 



Fig. 31. Cerion Maynardi Pils. it Van. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS : ARIOLIMAX AND 

 APHALLARION. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND E. G. YANATTA. 



The genera of slugs inhabiting North America have hitherto 

 been discriminated by external characters, and those of the jaw and 

 teeth. We purpose to indicate, in a series of papers of which this 

 is the first, some of the more important of their internal features, 

 particularly the genitalia and alimentary canal. 



The genitalia have been utilized by Mr. W. G. Binney and others 

 for the discrimination of species; and we have already considerable 

 knowledge of these organs from his descriptions and drawings ; but, 

 of late, quite a new stress has been laid upon certain characters of 

 the organs of generation. By Dr. Simroth, in Germany, and the 

 senior author of this paper in America, characters of generic, as 

 well as of still higher value, have been found in the genitalia. It 

 is, therefore, important to review our data upon the anatomy of 

 American slugs, to correct the numerous misinterpretations of organs 

 which have arisen from lack of good material or other causes, and 

 to expose the true generic characters and affinities of these animals, 

 so far as may be possible in the present state of our knowledge. 



As the species of slugs also rest largely upon characters of internal 

 anatomy, their revision will be attempted ; a work itow most timely, 

 in view of the fact that such a multitude of insufficiently defined 

 specific and varietal names have been proposed that he who attempts 

 the identification of a West Coast slug to-day is not only a bold 

 man but also one probably doomed to a miserable failure. 



The largest slugs of America, Ariolimax and Aphallarion, are 

 selected for the present essay. 



No correct figures or descriptions of the genitalia of these animals 

 have yet been published. The true structure of the male organs of 

 Ariolimax is here for the first time made known; and the genus 

 Aphallarion is proposed for a new species, perhaps the largest Amer- 

 ican slug, remarkable in lacking a penis. 1 



1 AYe must acknowledge our indebtedness to P. B. Randolph, of Seattle, 

 Washington, and to Fred L. Button, of Oakland, California, for large series 

 of slugs used in {preparing this paper. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



EXTERNAL CHARACTERS. 



The external characters of Ariolimax and Aphallarion are de- 

 scribed below. Avion differs from these American groups in the 

 rounded, not keeled, back, the anterior breathing pore and the more 

 posterior genital orifice. 



JAW'S AND TEETH. 



The jaw in Ariolimax and Aphallarion is of the ribbed type 

 usual in Arionidos, and does not differ materially from that of Avion. 

 The teeth offer no characters of generic importance, being of the 

 general type found throughout Arionidce. Those of the median part 

 of the radula are of the Helicid form ; the marginal teeth develop 

 long mesocones, simulating somewhat the teeth of Zonitidce, precisely 

 as those of some Endodontidie do. 



DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 



In Arion, Ariolimax aud Aphallarion the alimentary canal is dis- 

 tinctly differentiated into fore-, mid- and hind gut. The short <\'Sopha- 

 gus leads into a capacious crop, which is separated by a decided 

 constriction from the stomach, which lies near the posterior end 

 of body. At the termination of the stomach the bile duct enters, 

 near the origin of the intestine. The latter presents, after coiling 

 spirally once around the visceral mass, an anterior loop, lying to the 

 right of the albumen gland. Passing backward it coils in a reverse 

 direction around the visceral mass and forms a j><:<t>ri<>r loop, which, 

 in the American forms (PI. XIII, figs. 2, 4) lies behind, in the Eur- 

 opean (Arion, PI. XIII, fig. 3) above and anterior to the main mass 

 of the stomach. From this loop the intestine passes forward, describ- 

 ing a spiral coil again reversed in direction, and terminates near the 

 respiratory orifice on the right side of the body anteriorly. 



The digestive systems of the three geuera Arion, Ariolimax and 

 Aphallarion differ only in subordinate features. In Arion, the 

 stomach, as mentioned above, lies behind the posterior loop of the 

 hind-gut. In Ariolimax and Aphallarion the posterior loop lies 

 behind the stomach. Aphallarion differs from the other two genera 

 in having a spiral turn less of the intestine. As usual in slugs 

 there are four lengthwise folds of the gut. 



A very long and (for a slug) complexly disposed intestine, and a 

 complete separation of crop and stomach, are the peculiar charac- 

 teristics of these great slugs. This will become more apparent when 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



we compare it with the simpler and very different digestive tract in 

 Pvophysaon, Limax, or the Helices. 



The liver extends forward nearly as far as the anterior loop of the 

 intestine, and backward to the tail (PI. XIII, fig. 1), enveloping and 

 partly concealing the convolutions of the intestine in all three genera. 



The snboral gland (PI. XIII, fig. 1) is about half as long as body, 

 and lies free, not imbedded in the muscles of the foot. 



GENITALIA. 



In Avion, ArioUmax and Aphallarion the genitalia lie quite dif- 

 ferently in the body-cavity from those organs in Limax or Prop hysa- 

 on, the whole system being crowded forward. The albumen gland 

 (Pl.XIII, figs. 1 and 2) lies to the left of the anterior loop of the intes- 

 tine, almost entirely forward of the middle of the body-cavity. The 

 distal end of the albumen gland turns down the left side and extends 

 part way across the body beneath, often showing a longitudinal 

 impression made by the suboral gland. (This is seen at I. (jr. in fig. 

 14 of Plate XIV.) At the base of the albumen gland the ovotestis is 

 closely packed (PI. XIII, fig. 1) in ArioUmax and Aphallarion, and 

 its duct is largely imbedded in the albumen gland ; but in Avion the 

 ovi-sperm duct follows the course of the mid-gut backward, and the 

 ovotestis is situated at the tail, behind the stomach (PI. XIII, fig. 3). 



The penis in ArioUmax lies obliquely across the viscera, overlying 

 salivary glands and crop. It is seen removed from its natural posi- 

 tion in PI. XIII, fig. 1. 



In treating of Arion and allied forms, Dr. Simroth, the distinguished 

 German malacologist, has discriminated between a true penis and 

 that enlargement of the anterior end of the vas deferens seen in 

 Avion, etc., which he has termed the Pat rone nstrecke. 



The senior writer, in dealing with Helices, made the same distinc- 

 tion. 2 The penis is an evertable sack, provided with a retractor 

 muscle. The " Patronenstrecke" or, as we have termed it, the epi- 

 phallus, is not evertable, and has no retractor muscle; its function 

 being merely to gather the spermatozoa into packets or spermato- 

 phores ; and it is strictly homologous with the lower portion of the 

 vas deferens of ordinary snails. In the vast majority of snails in 

 which the vas deferens is modified into an epiphallus, it occurs in 

 connection with a normally developed penis, as in fig. 14, PI. XIV. 

 In Avion, Aphallarion, Prophysaon, and some other genera, the true 



2 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1892, p. 388. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



penis has been lost, and the epiphallus directly enters the atrium. 

 In these forms the vagina assumes the function of an evertable penis, 

 an extraordinary but by no means unparalleled instance of change 

 of function. 



Tbese matters are here dwelt upon somewhat fully, because in all 

 former American work on slug anatomy, no discrimination whatever 

 has been made between the penis and the epiphallus, the very real 

 and important morphologic facts involved being, therefore, entirely 

 ignored. 



The most prominent general feature of the genitalia in the three 

 o-enera is the crowding of the main mass forward into the anterior 

 half of the body-cavity. 



GENERIC CHARACTERS; 

 The three genera of Arionidce mentioned above are seen by the 

 foregoing general description to present many common features in 

 their digestive and generative organs, showing them to be nearly 

 allied. Their main differential characters are shown in the follow- 

 ing analysis : 

 I. Respiratory pore anterior, the genital orifice below it. No 

 caudal mucus pore. Back rounded in adults. Stomach extend- 

 ing back of posterior loop of intestine. No penis, an epiphallus 

 replacing it ; ovotestis widely separated from the albumen gland, 

 situated in the cavity of tail, behind the stomach (see PI. XIII, 

 fig. 3, J. liurt> >t*is), Genus Ariox Ferussac. 



II. Respiratory pore behind middle of shield. Genital orifice near 

 i L r ht tentacle. A caudal mucus pore. Back keeled, at least 

 toward the tail. Posterior loop of intestine behind stomach. 

 Ovotestis packed close to the base of albumen gland. 



a. No penis, a short epiphallus replacing it (see PI., XIV. fig. 

 12) ; right eye retractor passing to the left of genitalia. 

 Genus Aphallarion Pilsbry and Vanatta. 

 aa. A well developed penis, with short, fieshy retractor mus- 

 cle ; epiphallus more or less introverted in penis (see PI. 

 XIV, figs. 7, 8, 9, 14) ; right eye retractor passing between 

 <? and 9 branchesof genitalia, Genus Ariolimax Morch. 

 One species of the Pahearctic genus Avion has been introduced 

 by commerce within our limits, A. hortensis Fcr. It occurs at Bos- 

 ton and New Bedford, Mass. ; Poughkeepsie, N. Y. ; Seattle, Wash., 



etc 



Genua ARIOLIMAX Moron. 



External Characters. — Body limaciform, its posterior half 

 more or less keeled on the back; foot margin defined by deep pedal 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



grooves, deeper toward the more or less distinct caudal mucus gland. 

 Mantle oval, about one-fourth as long as the entire body, finely 

 granular, the respiratory orifice at its posterior third near the right 

 edge. Genital orifice behind the right eye tentacle. Orifice of the 

 suboral gland very broad. Integument scored by numerous grooves, 

 longitudinal behind, obliquely descending below the mantle and for 

 some distance along the flanks. 3 Sole tripartite, the divisions rather 

 indistinct ; alcoholic specimens having the median band smooth, 

 lateral bands finely transversely wrinkled. 



The principal internal characters of the genus are mentioned 

 above. The extraordinary modification of the penis is fully de- 

 scribed below. 



Key to species of Ariolimax. 

 a. Mantle free anteriorly for about one-third of its length. Penis 

 with terminal retractor, and nearly filled for its entire length by 

 the invaginated epiphallus ; vas deferens not enlarged, 



Columbianus. 

 aa. Mantle free anteriorly about one-fourth of its length. Penis hol- 

 low, with very broad retractor, beyond which it is attenuated; 

 vas deferens enlarged into an epiphallus external to the penis, 

 the invaginated portion small. Californieus. 



A. Columbianus Gould. Plate XII, fig. 2. 



Limax Columbianus Gld. in Terrestrial Moll. U. S., II, p. 43, pi. 66, f. 1 

 (1851); U. S. Expl. Exped., Moll., p. 3, pi. 1, f. 1 (1852); Tryon, Amer. 

 Jour. Conch., Ill, p. 315 (1868). 



Ariolimax Columbianus Morcn, Malak. Blatter, YI, p. 110 (1859). W. G. 

 Binney, Amer. Journ. Conch., I, p. 48, pi. 6, f. 11-13; Land and Fresh 

 AVater Sh. N. A., I, p. 279, f. 496-501, (1869); Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., 1874, p. 33, pi. 2, f. B. to H ; Terr. Moll., V, p. 231, pi. v, f. E (denti- 

 tion), pi. xii, f. C (genitalia) ; Man. Amer. L. Shells, p. 98, f. 58, 59, 6< , 61 ; 

 Third Supplement to Terr. Moll., V (Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., XIX, No. 4), 

 p. 211, pi. vi, f. A (mottled form) and f. G (penis). 



* Mr. Charles Hedley, the accomplished Australian student of mollusk 

 morphology, considers the oblique surface grooves as characteristic ofthe 

 Aulacopoda generally. I quote this passage from a recent letter : " Besides 

 the pedal grooves, tail pore and horn, the typically developed Aulacopod has 

 a keeled tail and oblique secondary grooves. The pore may be lost by de- 

 generation, so, too, may the oblique grooves ; and the keeled tail may become 

 flattened. Nevertheless, both are typical characteristics, and deserve mention 

 in the diagnosis. Again, the Holopoda have long tapering eye tentacles, with 

 bulbous tips, but the Aulacopoda. have shorter cylindrical tentacles, less bulb- 

 ous at tip and set wider apart." 



There can be no doubt that the features mentioned by my friend are of very 

 frequent occurrence in the Aulacopoda, while they do not occur in Holopoda; 

 but they are not invariable, the pedal grooves being, I believe, the only strictly 

 diagnostic external character of the group. — H. A. P. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Ariolimax Columbianus forma typicus Cockerell, Nautilus, V, p. 31 (1891). 



Ariolimax Columbianus forma maculatus Ckll., Nautilus, V, p. 31. Binney, 

 Third Suppl. to Terr. Moll, V (Bull. Mas. Comp. Zool., XLX, No. 4), p. 211, 

 pi. vi, f. A. 



Ariolimax Columbianus forma niger Ckll., Nautilus, V, p. 32. 



Ariolimax subsf Calijornicus forma mactdatus Ckll., Nautilus, V, p. 31 (foot 

 note). 



Ariolimary Columbianus var. stramineus Hemphill, Nautilus, IV, p. 130 

 (Feb., 1891). 



Geographic Distribution. — British Columbia (J. H. Keen) ; 

 Victoria (H. F. Wickhara) ; Washington, at Tacoma, and North 

 Bend, about 25 miles east of Seattle in the foot-hills of the Cascade 

 Mts. (P. B. Randolph) ; Nesqually (Case) ; Discovery Bay, Puget 

 Sound (Dyes) ; San Juan Island (Hemphill) ; California, at St. 

 Helena, Napa Co. (Hemphill) ; Santa Cruz Island (Hemphill, var. 

 stramineus). 



Color of alcoholic examples a lighter or darker shade of reddish- 

 brown, or sometimes ochraceous. Foot margin without dark vertical 

 lines (see descriptions of varieties). 



Melanistic form : Color of alcoholic specimens a slightly reddish- 

 brown, marked with large, irregular scattered black spots along the 

 side?, and with a rounded black spot on the mantle behind the middle. 

 In some specimens the spots on each side coalesce into a large, irreg- 

 ular black area. 



Anterior third of mantle free. 



Jaw (PI. XIV, fig. 10) with 13 to 17 ribs and riblets, which some- 

 times do not denticulate the basal margin ; but there is variation in 

 this respect. Teeth about as in A. Califomieus (</. v.), but the outer 

 laterals have less lengthened cusps, and there are rather fewer bi- 

 cuspid outer marginals. The differences between the teeth of the 

 species are too slight to be of any practical diagnostic value. 



Shell oblong, convex above, calcified in the middle, but with a 

 broad, yellow, uucalcified peripheral portion. Nucleus median, near 

 the posterior end. Length 12, breadth 6], convexity 1^ mm. 



The general internal structure (pi. XIII, fig. 1) and the digest- 

 ive tract (pi. XIII, fig. 2)* have been sufficiently described above. 



The genitalia (PI. XIV, fig. 7, typical form, and figs. 8, 9, black- 

 spotted form) present a rather long and stout penis, receiving the 

 vas deferens and a very short retractor muscle at it> apex : upon 

 opening the penis longitudinally Gg. 9) it is seen to contain a large 



* Compare Binney's ligure of the digestive system in Proc. Acad. Nat. Soi., 

 Phila., 1874, pi. II, f. D, F. 




-retractor 



- - ■ ept 





1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



inner body, which extends to the external orifice, where it terminates 

 in a penis-papilla (fig. 9, P. papilla). This internal body consists 

 of a fleshy cylindrical tube (fig. 9, epi.) en- 

 veloped by a very thin-walled and minutely 

 corrugated outer tube (fig. 9, sheath of epi.). 

 This structure we can only interpret as an 

 introverted epiphallus, which has extended 

 entirely to the proximal opening of the penis, 

 carrying the penis-papilla at its summit. 

 This will be more clearly seen in the annexed 

 diagram. The clearer, because less ad- 

 vanced, penial morphology of A. Californicus 

 bears out this view of the structure in A. 

 Columbianus, which is, moreover, more read- 

 Diagram of the penis of i! y seen in our preparations than in the flat 

 figures, necessarily complicated by lines to 

 show the ducts and layers of tissue not 

 visible from the outside 5 



The female side shows a rather long vagi- 

 na, provided with a broad, split retractor 

 muscle, inserted high. Spermatheca situated high, on a short duct. 

 Other organs call for no special remark. 



A. Columbianus is a dimorphic species in most, perhaps all, local- 

 ities. There is a unicolored form, and one more or less heavily 

 spotted or blotched with black. This maculated form has received 

 the name "forma maculatus " Ckll. It is in no sense a true variety 

 or subspecies but merely a "form," comparable to the glaucus form 

 of the dimorphic Papilio turn us. 



Cockerell's "forma niger " was described from one specimen in 

 which the black blotches had coalesced, upper surface entirely black 



& A similar penial structure has very recently been described and figured by 

 Charles Hedley in the epiphallogonous genus Xanthomelon of the Hdicidse. 

 In X. fodinalis Tate and X. Adcockiana Bednall, a tube occupies the penis 

 cavity. ''This," writes Hedley, "I interpret with some hesitation as an in- 

 vaginated epiphallus, of which the distal end has grown to the atrium wall, 

 and which has drawn after it into the penis sac both vas deferens and the 

 retractor" (see Hedley's anatomical appendix to Professor Ralph Tate's 

 report on the Mollusca of the Horn Expedition to Central Australia). 



No such structure has been described before ; and we are disposed to accept 

 Hedley's ingenious interpretation of the morphologic problem. In Xantho- 

 melon the invaginated epiphallus is attached at the proximal end of penis sac. 

 This is not the case with Ariolimax, in which the invaginated structure is to 

 that extent clearer. 



Ariolimax. v. d. vas def- 

 erens ; epi. invaginated 

 epiphallus ; /• p. perfo- 

 rated penis papilla, ele- 

 vated on the epiphallus ; 

 o. external opening of pe- 

 nis. 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



from the humid British Columbian region, in which melanism is of 

 common occurrence in snails, birds and mammals. In a series of 

 several hundred examples we find great variation in the extent of 

 the black marking. 



We hazard little in assuming that "A. Californicus forma macula- 

 tus" Ckll. is identical with the spotted form of Columbianus, and has 

 nothing whatever to do with the true A. Californicus Cooper. Like 

 a good many " varieties" of slugs, this is " such stuff as dreams are 

 made of." 



We have opened numerous spotted Californiau Ariolimaces, and 

 found them invariably to have the extremely characteristic genitalia 

 of Columbianus. Proof that a spotted form occurs in the other species 

 is lacking. 

 A. Columbianus var. stramineus Hemphill. PL XII, fig. 1. 



Alcoholic specimens clear, light buff. Length 59 ; greatest breadth 

 (across shield) 19 ; greatest width of sole 15 mm. Genitalia as in 

 typical A. columbianus. 



Habitat: Santa Cruz Island, California. 



The specimen figured is one of Hemphill's original lot. 



A. Californicus Cooper. PI. XIII, figs. 5, 6 : PI. XIV, i\^<. 1 i-lrt. 



Ariolimax CalifornicusJ. G. Cooper, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1872, 

 p. 146, pi. 3, f. D, 1-3. W. G. Binnev, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1874. p. 

 33; Am. Lye, N. Y., X, ls73, p. 297; Terrest. Moll., V. p. '2*2. pi. v. tig. F 

 (dentition), and pi. xii, f. D (genitalia); Man. Amer. Land Sli., p. 99 f. 62, 

 63; Third Suppl. Terr. Moll., V (Bull. M. C. Z.. XIX. No. 4), p. 211, pi. v. 

 f. E (living animal) and f. H (penis). Simroth, Nova Acta Acad. Caes. Leop. 

 Carol. Germ. Xat. Cur.,LVI, 1891, p. 365, pi. 7 [xv], f. 9-11 ; Malak. Blat- 

 ter (n. F.) XI, pl.l, f. 5. 6. 



Distribution : We have seen this species from San Mateo Co., 

 California, only. 



Color of alcoholic specimens brownish ochraceous, sole gray ; foot 

 margin uniform with the upper surface, or dusky with vertical dark 

 lines. 



The free anterior portion of mantle is shorter than in A. Colum- 

 bianus, less than one-fourth the entire length of the mantle. 



Jaw (PI. XIV, fig. 13) with about 9 ribs, denticulating both mar- 

 gins. . 



Radula (PI. XIII, figs. 5, 6) with the formula 07.1 .67. Rhachid- 

 ian teeth with well developed side cutting-points; rnesocone long, 

 reaching to posterior edge of basal plate. Inner lateral teeth, without 

 inner cusps, otherwise similar ; outer laterals becoming oblique, witli 

 long mesocones, the ectocone gradually reduced to a slight sinuation. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



The transition to marginals is extremely gradual ; the latter being 

 at first as described above (fig. 5, at 24, 25, 46), but about 20 at the 

 outer edge of radula are of the form shown in fig. 6, with distinct ecto- 

 cones, and the short, Helicid form of basal plates of other Arionidoe. 



Genitalia (PI. XIV, fig. 14) somewhat as in A. Columbianus. The 

 $ and $ orifices are, as Binney has remarked, hardly united in an 

 atrium (see figure). The penis is fleshy, with plicate inner walls, 

 and its retractor is short and fleshy, as in Columbianus, but is ex- 

 tremely broad. The epiphallus (epi.) is very stout, nearly as large 

 in calibre as the penis in sexually mature specimens. Further 

 downward it becomes very small again, approaches the penis, follows 

 it to its apex, turns in (fig. 15, enlarged view of apex of penis) and 

 is introverted and invaginated therein for some distance, nearly as 

 far as the insertion of retractor muscle (fig. 16, distal end of penis 

 opened, showing the invaginated epiphallus). 6 



The female organs are as usual, except that there is a broad, stout, 

 fleshy vaginal retractor muscle inserted near the base of vagina. 7 



It will be seen that this species shows a less advanced stage of 

 penis structure than A. Columbianus, although of the same kind. 

 The very stout, low, vaginal retractor is also a diagnostic feature. 



INSUFFICIENTLY KNOWN ARIOLIMACES. 



Ariolimax Columbiana var. Hecoxi \Yetherby (Some Notes on 

 American Land Shells, p. 6) from Santa Cruz, California, is stated 

 by "Wetherby to differ from A. Columbianus in the genitalia, but no 

 characters whatever of the new form are mentioned. Binney 

 (Manual American Land Sh., p. 103) apparently endorses the spe- 

 cific value of the form ; but beyond stating that it has about HO. 1.60 

 teeth (Columbianus varying from 56.1.56 to 67.1.67), with about 16 

 laterals, he gives no characters. The form has been mentioned in 

 various lists, etc., by Cockerell and the senior author of this paper, 

 but in the entire absence of diagnosis it can have no standing, and 

 had better be dropped until described. We have not seen specimens, 

 nor, in fact, any specimens of the genus from Santa Cruz. 



Ariolimax Costaricensis Cockerell, Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), 

 VI, 1890, p. 279, described as a sub-species of A. Caltfornicus, from 



6 The slender distal end of the penis has been erroneously described as a " fla- 

 gellum" by Binney, " Blindschlauch " by Simroth ; both overlooking the fact 

 that the epiphallus runs up to its apex, as shown in our figure 15. 



7 Binney (Man. Amer. Land Sh., p. 100) calls the structure a "vaginal 

 prostate," overlooking the easily ascertainable fact that it is composed of solid 

 muscular tissue, similar to that of the penis retractor. All Ariolimaces have 

 vaginal retractors, and at times invert and protrude the vagina, like a penis. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



alcoholic specimens in Brit. Mus. The only diagnostic words of 

 Cockerell's description are the locality, " Costa Rica." The other 

 characters mentioned in the description are common to Columbia mis 

 and some Californicus. Measurements, etc., as given therein, look 

 well on paper, but every practical limacologist knows them to be 

 merely an empty form. We consider Costaricensis as probably a good 

 species, on account of its locality (if correct), but a diagnosis is still 

 wanting. 



Genus APHALLARION P. & V. (n. g.). 



External characters, jaw, radula and digestive tract, shell, and 

 general internal topography, as well as female genitalia, as in Ario- 

 limax; penis (and its retractor) completely wanting, a small and 

 short epiphallus lying in its place ; right eye retractor passing to the 

 left of the genitalia. 



We institute this new group for a large slug like Arion and Pro- 

 physaon in the total lack of a penis and its appendages, and like 

 Ariolimax in the other essential features, internal and external, ex- 

 cept the disposition of the eye-retractor mentioned above. 



In view of the high development and complicated structure of the 

 penis in Ariolimax, the strength of its retractor, the large size and 

 extraordinary introverted character of the epiphallus, we can hardly 

 refuse generic rank to a form differing so radically as this one. The 

 anterior position of the genital foramen in Aphallarion, the poste- 

 rior position of its breathing pore, and the anterior ovotestis, pressed 

 against the base of the albumen gland, deny to our slug entrance into 

 Arion ; and in the genus Prophysaon the whole internal topography 8 

 as well as the type of digestive system is profoundly different. 

 A. Buttoni P. & V. (n. sp.). PI. XII, figs. 3, 4. 5. 



Color of alcoholic specimens light yellow-brown, the shield lighter, 

 more yellowish, especially anteriorly. Foot-margin dusky, with close 

 vertical black lines, alternately heavier, and seen under the lens to 

 be impressed and pigmented wrinkles. Sole gray, more or less 

 dusky. Anterior third of the mantle free. Length 82 : length of 

 mantle 34; greatest breadth of sole 21 mm. 



Shell oblong, nearly flat, well calcified ; white below, with a 

 yellowish cuticle above, except toward the middle. Length 12}, 

 width 6| mm. 



8 By this we mean the positions of the organs in the body-cavity, both rela- 

 tive and actual. The relative positions of genitalia ami digestive trait are 

 greatly varied in different genera of slugs, and of considerable systematic 

 value. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Mr. Button writes of the living animal as follows : " He lias a 

 way of occasionally raising up the mantle over the respiratory 

 orifice, as shown in the sketch, which is characteristic. The follow- 

 ing are some measurements of a very large specimen : Length, over 

 all, when extended, 7 inches; width, f in.; height, i in.; length of 

 tentacles, | inch. The color is the same throughout, shield included, 

 being an olive brown." 



Figures 4 and 5 of Plate XII were drawn from sketches of the 

 living animal furnished by Mr. Button. Fig. 3 represents an alco- 

 holic specimen, dorsal view. 



Jaw with 10 'to 12 ribs (PI. XIV, fig. 11). Teeth as in Arlolimax 

 Californicus, but the outer laterals and marginals have the cusps 

 shorter, less thorn-like, and there are rather fewer bicuspid outer 

 marginals. 



General characters of the digestive system (PI. XIII, fig. 4) as in 

 Ariolimax Columbianus ; but the ascending gut from posterior loop 

 passes under the stomach (instead of over it) and the descending 

 gut from anterior to posterior loop makes one spiral turn less than 

 in that species. 



Genitalia (PI. XIV, fig. 12) lying in the body-cavity like that of 

 Ariolimax. Penis absent, the epiphallus (epi.) small and short. 

 Vagina very long, strong, with plicate internal walls, and provided 

 with a band of retractor fibers. Spermatheca large, of irregular 

 shape, on a short duct. 



Oakland, California (Fred L. Button !). 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 

 Plate XII. 



Fig. 1. Ariolimax Columbianus stramineus Hemph., lateral view of 

 an alcoholic specimen. 



Fig. 2. Ariolimax Columbianus Gld., lateral view of an alcoholic 

 specimen of form maculatus, from Tacoma, Washington. 



Fig. 3. Aphallarion Buttoni Pils. & Van., dorsal view of an alco- 

 holic specimen of average size. 



Fig. 4, 5. Aphallarion Buttoni Pils. & Van., lateral view and dorsal 

 outline of a large living individual in motion, drawn from 

 sketches by Fred. L. Button. 

 All figures natural size. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Plate XIII. 



Fig. 1. Ariolimax Columbianus Gld. General view of viscera, the 



upper integument removed, viscera turned aside, and penis 



lifted from its normal position across salivary glands and 



crop. 

 Fig. 2. A. Columbianus. Digestive tract, the salivary glands and 



liver removed ; albumen gland remaining in place. 

 Fig. 3. Avion hortensis Fer. (specimen from New Bedford, Mass.). 



Digestive tract, the liver removed ; also showing position 



of the ovotestis. 

 Fig. 4. Aphallarion Buttoni P. & V. Digestive tract, the salivary 



glands and liver removed. 

 Figs. 5,6. Ariolimax Californicus Cooper. Dentition. 



Plate XIV. 



Fig. 7. Ariolimax Columbian as Gld. Genitalia of an unicolored 

 specimen. 



Fig. 8. Ariolimax Columbianus Gld. Lower portion of the genitalia 

 of a black-spotted specimen. 



Fig. 9. Ariolimax Columbia a us Gld. Vagina and penis opened, 

 the latter showing invaginated epiphallus (epi.), its struc- 

 ture shown by dotted lines. 



Fig. 10. Ariolimax Columbianus Gld. Jaw. 



Fig. 11. Aphallarion Butboni P. & V. Jaw. 



Fig. 12. Aphallarion Butfoni P. & V. Genitalia, epiphallus shown 

 at epi. 



Fig. 13. Ariolimax Californicus Cooper, -law. 



Fig. 14. Ariolimax Californicus Cooper. Genitalia. 



Fig. 15. Ariolimax Californicus Cooper. Enlarged end of penis. 



Fig. 16. Ariolimax Californicus Cooper. Enlarged distal portion 

 of penis split to show the invaginated epiphallus. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



SYNOPSIS OF THE POLAR HARES OF NORTH AMERICA. 

 EY SAMUEL N. KHOADS. 



Owing to the extreme scarcity of specimens of skins and skulls, 

 with reliable data, of our American Polar Hares in the museums of 

 this country or of the Continent, no attempt has yet been made to 

 study this group in a comprehensive way. To this fact, together 

 with the prevailing opinion that the Arctic representatives of our 

 land mammal fauna retain their specific constancy throughout the 

 breadth of their habitat, the animals which form the subject of this 

 paper owe the neglect and consequent misconception of their rela- 

 tionships which have so long existed. 



Having occasion to identify a summer specimen of Polar Hare 

 from Alaska, recently presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia by Dr. Benjamin Sharp, I was led to a critical ex- 

 amination of the series in our museum. The subject proved of so much 

 interest that I secured the loan of some specimens from the Smith- 

 sonian Institution, which finally led to a general correspondence 

 with collectors in this country and in England, and the examina- 

 tion of a series of skins, skulls and alcoholic specimens of American 

 Polar Hares, representing over thirty individuals, together with 

 about fifteen specimens of Siberian and Swedish Polar Hares. Be- 

 sides these, I secured data from correspondents, which covered the 

 examination of nearly thirty more specimens, more than half of 

 which were American species. 



Especial mention is due to the courtesy of Messrs. Goode and 

 True of the Smithsonian Institution, for their liberal assistance in 

 the loan of their specimens and furnishing of data. To Mr. Outram 

 Bangs I am indebted for a most valuable set of Newfoundland spec- 

 imens and the use of a set of drawings of the type skull of L. a. 

 bangs! , executed by Mr. Blake. Messrs. Walter Faxon of the 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology, William De Winton, of the Brit- 

 ish Museum, and LudwigKumlien, of Milton College, Wisconsin, have 

 also furnished me with timely aid in the loan and examination of speci- 

 mens and the use of private field notes and references to literature. 

 The illustrations on plates VI, VII and VIII, are reproductions of an 

 exceptionally fine set of photographs made by H. Parker Rolfe, of 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Philadelphia. Plates IX and X contain figures of the type skull of 

 L. a. ban gsi drawn by Mr. J. H. Blake of Boston. The remaining 

 figures on Plate X were drawn hy myself. 



Although the series of specimens which I was enabled to bring 

 together for study is much larger than any yet examined, it is very 

 deficient in examples from certain parts' oT America, especially 

 Baffin Land, the Arctic Archipelago and the interior of British 

 America. On this account some of the opinions advanced in this 

 paper may be found to need revision, but it is believed that suffi- 

 cient material has been examined to establish the main conclusions 

 arrived at, and also to indicate the direction in which our further 

 investigations of these mammals should be turned. 



HISTORY AND NOMENCLATURE. 



Owing to the confusion of some authors as to the difference be- 

 tween the European and American Polar Hares, it will be neces- 

 sary first to briefly outline the nomenclature of the former. 



Linnaeus, in the tenth edition of the Systema Naturae* was the 

 first author to impose a tenable name upon the Polar or Arctic 

 Hare of Europe, the Lepus albus of Brisson. He gave it the name 

 Lepus timidus, including under that title both it and the Common 

 Hare, Lepus eitropceus Pallas. 2 Pallas, in 1778, in distinguishing 

 between the two, not only gave a new name to the Common Hare, 

 but renamed the Polar Hare, Lepus variabilis, 3 and by this name it 

 has since been known to most authors. 



The description of Linnaeus unmistakably refers in all particulars 

 to the Polar Hare rather than to the Common Hare, which, how- 

 ever, he included under the name timidus. Pallas' name for the 

 latter should be retained, while that of Linnseue continues to belong 

 to the former. 



No series of the Polar Hares of Russia, Siberia or the mountains 

 of Central Europe being available for study in this country, attempt 

 will not be made to give a synopsis of their status or nomenclature. 

 While there is no doubt that the Old World is represented by at 

 least three forms of the timidus group, for which there are available 

 names in literature, it only concerns us, in this connection, to fix 

 the type form and habitat of L. timidus for sake of comparisons be- 



1 Svst. Nat., 1758, \>. 57. 

 'Nov. Sp. Grlires, 177S, p. 30. 

 3 Ibid, pp. 1, 30. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



tween it and the hares of North America. A careful consideration 

 of the question induces rne to adopt the Scandinavian animal as 

 the type of L. timidus, from the fact that Linnaeus' conception of 

 the Arctic Hare, when he wrote his original diagnosis, was based 

 primarily on those frequenting the localities near his Swedish 

 home. 4 



Captain John Ross was the first author to publish a description 

 and new name for the American Polar Hare. 5 Owing to the fact 

 that he gave this animal the name " Lepus arcticus Leach," and 

 that Leach, a few pages further on, names and describes the same 

 specimen as " Lepus glacialis,"' some confusion of synonymy has re- 

 sulted. Owing to the scarcity of the work in which these descrip- 

 tions occur, and to make the status of the case more clear, they are 

 herewith given. 7 



Later authors recognized the American Hare as distinct from the 

 European, but none of them, until Gray, in 1843, used the name 

 arcticus for it, but adopted Leach's later name, glacialis. 8 In 1877, 

 Dr. J. A. Allen revived Ross' name on account of the priority of 



4 Linnaeus' 175S description refers to Fauna Sueciea. 1746, No. 19. p. 8. 

 *Koss' Voy., 1819 (2d [octavo] ed.). Appx IV, p. 151 (Written by Ross). 



6 Ibid, p. 170 ( Under caption : " Desc N. Sp. Anim., Discov. * * in 

 Arc. Keg. by Dr. W. E. Leach ")._ 



7 Ross' description (p. 151, 1. c ) is as follows : 

 "Genus Lepus (Hare). 



"Species Lepus arcticus Leach. The only one of this species was shot in 

 lat. 73° 37', on the west side of the Straits. It was nearly the same size as 

 Lepus timidus (the common Hare); the body was white, except that a few 

 solitary black hairs, longer than the rest, were dispersed over every part and 

 which appeared to be rapidly coming away ; the tips of the ears and the short 

 hairs within the ears were black ; tail short and white. It wa^ shot on the 

 fir-t of September. Another, shot by a Master of a Whaler, in May. at Hare 

 Island [Greenland?], differed very little from the above. Dr Leach thinks 

 it to be very distinct from the common White Hare of Scotland ( Lepus albus 

 Brisson) and equallv so from the Lepus variabilis Pallas. See Appendix No. 

 V.- 

 Ross' reference to " Appendix No. V," is a mistake, as Leach's descrip- 

 tion comes in the latter part of appendix IV, page 170. It reads as follows : 

 " Genus Lepus of Autltors (Hare). 



''Species Glacialis. Albus, vertice et dorso pilis nigricante fuscis albo fas- 

 ciatis sparsis, collo lateribus nigricante abloque raixtis, auribus apice extremo 

 nigris. 



''This animal, which will neither agree with the Lepus albus of Brisson 

 nor the Lepus variabilis of Pallas, both of which are now before me, is of the 

 size of the common Hare ( Lepus timidus and of a white color The back and 

 top of the head are sprinkled with blackish-brown hair which is banded with 

 white; the sides of the neck are covered with hairs of the same color, inter- 

 spersed with white The extreme tips of the ears are tipped with black, in- 

 termixed with white ; the insides of the ear.- have a few black hairs mingled 

 with the white. 



" I am sorry that the skeleton (which would, in all probability, have fur- 

 nished a good specific distinction) was not brought home." 



8 See Baird, Mam. N. Amer. , 1857, p. 577 (foot note). 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



paging of his description of areticus. Dr. Allen further gave Leach 

 sole credit for this name and was induced, by the difficulty of spe- 

 cifically separating the American from the European Hare, to con- 

 stitute the former a " variety " of the latter, so as to make it stand 

 trinomially, Lepus timidus areticus (Leach). Aa I have already 

 attempted to show 9 our American forms are quite distinct from 

 those of Europe, and the most proper formula for typical areticus 

 north of Baffin Land is Lepus areticus " Leach " Ross. In the 

 same paper I have described two new forms, Lepus areticus bangsi, 

 representing the dark southeastern race of areticus, and Lepus 

 groenlandieus, a strongly characterized species which appears to be 

 peculiar to Greenland and Grinnell Land. To these is now added 

 a fourth, Lepus tsehuktsehorum (Nordquist), from the west coast of 

 Alaska. 



A skin, without skull, feet or limbs, from near Great Slave Lake, 

 N. W. Territory, dated May, 1877 (No. 13,350, Sm. Inst.), and in 

 full summer pelage, indicates the existence of an interior geograph- 

 ical race, so much lighter in color than L. <i. bangsi, as to indicate 

 that it should be separated under another name. The most diligent 

 search in this country, however, has failed to reveal another sum- 

 mer skin from that region, and the condition of the one in hand does 

 not warrant its use in this connection. 



GEOGRAPHICAL-DISTRIBUTION AND VARIATION. 



The American Polar Bares confine their habitats very closely to 

 the fauna] areas designated by Dr. J. A. Allen 10 as the " Barren 

 Ground" and "Alaskan Arctic." The most southern points of 

 their distribution yet recorded, beginning in the east, are Lay St. 

 George, Newfoundland (1. c.)," Solomon Island and Ungava, 

 Labrador (1. c.) ; Fort Churchill," Fort Rae (1. c), Great Bear 

 Lake,' 3 Yukon Valley and mouth of Kuskoquim Liver, 14 Alaska. 

 A line connecting these points runs northwest from latitude 47° in 

 Newfoundland to latitude 57° in northern Labrador, thence directly 

 west across Hudson Bay to Fort Churchill, aud northwest al 



9 Amer. Nat., 1896, pp. 251, 252. 

 111 Hull. Amer Mus. Nat. lli-t , 1892, PL V 1 1 1 



"Aud. & Bach . Quad. V Amer, 1846, 1. p. 248, state it is reported from 

 Nova Scotia. This is not authenticated. 

 12 Richardson, Faun. Bor. Amer, l^-".', 1. p. 221. 

 '•Nelson, Rep. N. Hist. Alaska, L887, p. 271. 

 14 Richardson, 1. c, p. 222. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



the eastern drainage of the Mackenzie to its mouth in latitude 67°. 

 The distribution between Great Bear Lake and Nulato is uncertain, 

 but may be restricted to the Yukon drainage south westward to 

 Kuskoquim Bay, Behring Sea, in latitude 60°. North of this line, 

 the Polar Hare is likely to be found in greater or less abundance, 

 as far as explorations have reached. The Greenland Hare, ac- 

 cording to Fabricius, 15 abounds throughout that country. His 

 observations were probably restricted to the southern half of 

 Greenland, but they equally apply to the northern sections. It is 

 also found on the west side of Robeson Channel and Hall Basin in 

 Grinnell Land, 16 and on the northeast coast of Greenland in lati- 

 tude 75°. 17 The Baffin Land Hare, in its typical form, occupies the 

 northern half of the Barren Ground Fauna of America, north 

 of latitude 70°, exclusive of Alaska and the habitat of grcenlandicus. 

 Its subspecies, bang si, may be provisionally restricted to the 

 country east of Hudson Bay, including south Baffin Land. The 

 Polar Hares of the southern interior, west of Hudson Bay, as al- 

 ready stated, probably constitute another race of arcticus, while the 

 Siberio-Alaskan species occupies the remaining portions of the 

 "Alaskan Arctic " range of the Polar Hare in the northwest. 



The causes of geographic variation in arcticus and its subspecies 

 are nowadays so well understood, as far as they relate to color char- 

 acters, as to need little comment. It is interesting to note, however, 

 how they are correlated with the variations of some other animal forms 

 inhabiting the same areas. In the extreme north, where it is never 

 dissociated from snow-covered areas, arcticus practically retains its- 

 winter coat throughout the year. In those southern areas where 

 snow largely disappears for a short summer season, we find an as- 

 sumption of colors to correspond with the environment, blackest in 

 rocky, fog-clouded Newfoundland, and hoary in the arid, gray 

 wastes of the interior. On the verdant, humid shores of Alaska, a 

 very distinct Old World species, in sooty-brown summer dress, takes 

 the place of its eastern congener. 



When we come, however, to inquire into the origin of the Green- 

 laud species, with the peculiar dental characters which seem to sep- 

 arate it, not only from its Polar allies, but from all other members 

 of the genus, the problem is more difficult. It is not unlikely that 



15 Faun. Gronl., 1780, p. 25. 



16 Feilden, in Nare.s' Yoy., 1878, II, Appx., p 204. 



17 Zweite Deutsche Xordpolarf. , II, 1874, pp. 165-167. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



the character of the food procurable in extreme northern localities, 

 as compared with that of the more southern, has been a factor in 

 the development of the slender protruding incisors. In northern 

 Greenland, plant-life is not only greatly reduced in size and num- 

 ber of species from that of Labrador, but the difficulty of procuring 

 it is enhanced by the depth and long continuance of the snow in the 

 former locality. For many months in the year the Greenland 

 Hare must subsist entirely on dwarfed plants, which it uncovers 

 and reaches by scratching away the snow, 18 while the Labrador ani- 

 mal is living without exertion on the twigs, leaves and branches of 

 a large variety of bushes and shrubs. The character of the diet in 

 each instance naturally accounts for the relatively weaker dentition 

 of the northern animal and we may believe that the projecting form 

 of incisor was the outcome of the needs of the animal in rooting 

 among snow and stones for its scant repast. To insure such an ar- 

 mature the arc of the tooth must have a larger radius and hence 

 the tooth itself a greater length, bringing its root farther back upon 

 the maxillary than the sharply curved, perpendicular, massive form 

 of the twig-eating animal. Again we see how the projecting form 

 of incisor tooth, meeting its opposing member at a triturating 

 angle of 45°, must, of necessity, have a greater relative vertical re- 

 sistance than opposing pairs of teeth which meet on the same plane 

 or at an angle scarcely appreciable. As a result, we have the nar- 

 row, deep incisors of grcenlandicua and the long, slender premaxil- 

 lary and ramus enclosing them. By this means, the incisor sulcus 

 is not only diminished but the weakness resulting from its possession 

 is remedied by a special functional provision which rills it with the 

 cementum-like scale as the animal approaches maturity. 



It may be stated that the Polar Hares of America, contrary to 

 the rule of specific stability in circumpolar animals have proved no 

 exception to the protean character of the many members of the 

 genus Lepus on this continent. On the other hand, they emphasize 

 that fact, and form a group, apparently more sensitive to the min- 

 ute alterations of a Polar environment than any other of the Arctic 

 vertebra ta. 



Contrary to what we should expect, it does not appear that our 

 Arctic Hares decrease in size as we go south. The average meas- 

 urements of North Greenland Hares are less than those of 

 the series taken in Newfoundland and it will be noted that the 



18 See Feilden, in Appx. Nares' Voy„ 187s. 11. pp. LVi, 205. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



west Alaskan Hares are considerably larger than any others from 

 either higher or lower latitudes. The length of ear, which the laws 

 of variation lead us to suppose would increase southwardly, is actu- 

 ally less in Newfoundland than in Labrador, Baffin Land and 

 Greenland, while the hind foot follows a reverse order, being longer 

 in the south than in the north. 



GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON SEASONAL, SES UAL AND JUVENILE 

 PHASES OF COLOR. 



The Polar Hares of all countries and latitudes undergo a double 

 annual moult of the entire pelage, taking place during late spring 

 and early autumn. Throughout their more southern distribution, 

 the contrast between the perfect summer and winter coats, in color, 

 texture and quantity is very marked. As their habitat nears the 

 Pole, these seasonal differences diminish, so that it is difficult to dis- 

 tinguish at a distance the midsummer hares of North Greenland 

 and the Arctic Archipelago from the same animals in their snowy 

 winter dress. There is but one color character which remains con- 

 stant to all members of the group at all ages and seasons the world 

 over, namely, the black extreme tips of the ears. In winter this is 

 the only exception to the prevailing whiteness which characterizes 

 every American form of Polar Hare. 



In Scotland, Ireland and parts of Europe and Asia, the au- 

 tumnal change of color is incomplete in the Polar Hares which in- 

 habit the more temperate parts of the range of Lepus timidus of the 

 Old World. This peculiarity scarcely assumes the dignity of a 

 racial or geographical character, owing to its inconstancy, some in- 

 dividuals in a given neighborhood changing to a pure white winter 

 pelage while others acquire the grayish-brown or hoary dress which 

 was named canescens. by Nilsson, 19 for the Swedish variety, and hi- 

 bernicus, by Bell, 20 for the Irish animal. 



In America I have found no instances which may be said to be 

 analogous to this variation. The Newfoundland Polar Hare reaches 

 a more southerly distribution than any of the Old World forms, but 

 1 have seen no specimens nor know of authentic instances of its fail- 

 ing to become pure white in winter, unless a few gray hairs on the 

 fore part of the ears may be called an exception. 



The number of skins showing intermediate stages of the molt, 

 which would enable me to outline the process of change from winter 



19 Ofver. Ved. Akad., 1844, p. 133. 



20 Brit. Quad., 1837, p. 341. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



to summer and from summer to winter dress is very small in the 

 series available, and those which I have seen appear to differ in the 

 manner of molting from that outlined by Dr. J. A. Allen for the 

 American Varying Hare, Lepus amerieamis. 21 An adult female, 

 taken at Bay St. George, Newfoundland, October ]6th, 1895 (No. 

 3,756, Col. of E. A. & O. Bangs), appears to be undergoing a bleach- 

 ing process which affects, with remarkable uniformity, every part 

 simultaneously. There is no ragged appearance, caused by the pres. 

 ence of patches of old hair, anywhere. The summer fur appears to 

 have uniformly about half fallen, giving place to a growing, but 

 still short, under-fur of white, which will speedily lengthen into the 

 mature winter fur. The feet and hinder bases of ears are unmixed 

 white. The leaden gray of inner flanks and lower head and neck 

 and the ashy-gray head are little changed from midsummer shades, 

 but the whole back, sides and ears are about two shades lighter 

 throughout, owing to the disposition of the old over fur and the 

 outgrowth of the new. There are no specimens in the series illus- 

 trating the style of spring molt. 



In general terms, the spring change of more southern American 

 examples consists in the acquisition of black ears, a tawny gray 

 head and dark ashy-gray upper parts, including the chin, throat, 

 neck and breast ; the feet and belly are also more or less shaded 

 with gray and leaden hues but the greater part of the belly and tail 

 remain white. This diagnosis applies to the eastern subspecies, L. 

 ardicus bangsi, and in great measure to the pallid form which fre- 

 quents the southern Barren Grounds west of Hudson Bay. In 

 species, L. tschuktechorum of Alaska and northeast Siberia, the 

 ears are marbled blackish-brown and white, and the upper parts, 

 head and neck are blackish-brown, resembling much more closely 

 the colors of the Asiatic and European than the American type. 

 In typical northern ardicus and grcenlandicus the summer coat 

 never (?) attains a dark appearance except in the young, but close 

 examination shows a greater or less admixture of clear gray hairs 

 over the upper parts, most numerous on the head and ears, where 

 it is generally accompanied by a tawny suffusion. In some in- 

 stances these gray hairs are so sparse as to make the animal prac- 

 tically indistinguishable, save in texture and density of fur, from 

 winter specimens. 



21 Bull. Amer. Mus. N. Hist, 1894> | p. 107-12S. 






1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



So far as I am able to determine, there are no secondary sexual 

 color characters in the Polar Hares of America. 



The young, at birth, as well as in the more advanced foetal stage, 

 are as dark or even darker colored than their parents in full sum- 

 mer pelage. In groenldndicus they are fully and thickly haired 

 some time before birth, and resemble in color and color pattern 

 much faded summer skins of arctieus from Great Slave Lake. The 

 inner posterior half of the ears is white, their tips and inner borders 

 broadly marked with black, the remainder of the ear rusty gray. 

 The pelage is remarkably long and well developed for an embryo. 

 The soles of the hind feet are as dark as the back, their uppers 

 white. The fore-feet and the tail are white throughout. With in- 

 creasing age, the young of the northern forms assume a lighter col- 

 ored pelage and it becomes nearly as white as that of their parents 

 ere the winter fur begins to replace it. In the south the half-grown 

 young are marked very similarly to their adult associates, but with 

 a stronger fulvous or brownish tinge among the gray. 



HABITS. 



I find very few satisfactory accounts of the habits of any of our 

 American species of Polar Hare. The literature on this subject 

 mainly consists of brief allusions to the animal by Arctic explorers, 

 and some of the most observing of these seem to have formed a very 

 ■imperfect acquaintance with the animal. Richardson's account in 

 the Fauna Boreall Americana is the best one relating to Lepus arc- 

 tieus of the interior of British America. He says : " It is not found 

 in wooded districts, hence it does not come further south on the 

 line of the Mackenzie and Slave Lake, than latituds 64°. It was 

 found in latitude 75°, on the North Georgian Islands. Although 

 it does not frequent thick woods, it is often seen near the small and 

 thin clumps of spruce fir, which are scattered on the confines of the 

 Barren Grounds. It seeks the sides of the hills, where the wind pre- 

 vents the snow from lodging deeply and where, even in the winter, 

 it can procure the berries of the Alpine arbutus, the bark of some 

 dwarf willows, or the evergreen leaves of the Labrador tea-plant 

 (ledum). It does not dig burrows, but shelters itself amongst large 

 stones or in the crevices of rocks, and in the winter time its form is 

 generally found in a wreath of snow, at the base of a cliff. The 

 Polar Hare is not a very shy animal, and on the approach of a 

 hunter it merely runs to- a little distance, and sits down, repeating 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



this manoeuvre as often as its pursuer comes nearly within gunshot. 

 * * * According to Indian information, the Polar Hare brings 

 forth once in the year and from two to four young at a time." 



Respecting the Greenland Hare, Captain Koldewey of the Ger- 

 man-Arctic Expedition of 1869-70, writes : 22 " The European hare 

 is remarkable for its long and rapid, hasty flight. The Greenland 

 Hare, on the contrary, sits as if nailed down in its rocky refuge, 

 however near the hunter may pass to him. Sometimes one sees the 

 mountain slopes dotted with white spots, which, from their motion- 

 lessness, might be taken for snow ; but they are only white hares. 

 They are about the size of our own hares, but their flesh, like that 

 of the Alpine Hare, is insipid. Hare hunting in Greenland often 

 gives rise to the drollest scenes. Their hearing appears to bo even 

 weaker than their sight. Payer once stood near a hare which was 

 startled by repeated firing, but had confined its flight to a few steps. 

 The creature was nibbling the moss quietly. Payer took out his 

 sketch book and drew it in all the different positions which, in its 

 uneasiness at the conversation and Laughter of his companions, it 

 assumed." 



This relates to the hares of northeastern Greenland. H. W. 

 Feilden, in the Appendix to Nares' Voyage to the Polar Sea, thus 

 describes the Hares of north Grinnell Land : " The Polar hare was 

 found, though in scanty numbers, along the shores of Grinnell Land 

 and its footprints were seen on the snow clad ice of the Polar 8 

 by Captain Markham and Lieutenant Parr, in lat. 83° l(f N., a 

 distance of about 20 miles north of the nearest land. '■■• '• * * On 

 February 14, two weeks before the sun reappeared at midday, the 

 temperature minus ot) , I started one from its burrow, a hole about 

 four feet in length, scraped horizontally into a snowdrift. I have no 

 doubt the same burrow is regularly occupied, as this one was dis- 

 colored by the feet of the animal and a quantity of the fur was sticking 

 to the sides; all around, the hare had been scratching up the snow 

 and feeding on Saxijraga oppositifolia. Even where exposed to the 

 wind, this hardy plant had delicate green buds, showing on the brown, 

 withered surface of last year's growth. The hare does not tear up 

 this plant by the roots, but Dibbles ofF the minute green shoots. 

 The number of young that we found in gravid females varied from 

 seven to eight, which is much in exee>s of that produced in Great 

 Britain by Leptis variabilis, from which naturalists have found dif- 



M Germ. Are. Exp., Mender's transL, 1874. p. 188. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



ficulty in separating the Arctic species. * * * * "We find Lejnis 

 glacialis inhabiting the most northern land yet visited, and attain- 

 ing its normal weight, eight to ten pounds, under apparently very 

 adverse circumstances. Still, I must say, it is sparsely diffused, and 

 we found that after killing a pair or two out of each valley that af- 

 forded any vegetation, the race seemed to be extirpated in that dis- 

 trict." 



Referring to the Alaskan Polar Hare, Lepus tschuktschorum, Mr. 

 E. W. Nelson says: 23 "The open country of the Yukon delta is 

 their place of greatest abundance, so far as I was able to learn. 

 There, in May, 1879, I found them very common. The snow was 

 nearly gone, and while travelling along the small channels between 

 the islands, in the pale twilight which marks the nights at that sea- 

 son, we saw many hares playing about on the banks. They were 

 often in small parties of from three to five or six, and were not very 

 shy. * * * "While camped in this vicinity, at that time, I found 

 them to be almost entirely nocturnal in their habits, rarely moving 

 about in day-time, even during the gloomy days, when the sky was 

 obscured by dense, low lying clouds. Although they are nocturnal 

 in their habits, they see very well in the day, and it is extremely 

 difficult to surprise one in its form. Usually it spies the hunter be- 

 fore he gets within gunshot and leaves the spot in great haste. 



" During most of the year, these animals are essentially solitary, 

 but during April and May they gather into small parties, and some- 

 times as many as a dozen or more may be found on a single hill- 

 side." After declaring that he is sure this hare voluntarily takes to 

 the water, and crosses streams 30 yards in width in its wanderings, 

 Mr. Nelson continues : " In severe winter weather they seek the 

 shelter of willow or alder patches on the slopes of sheltered ravines, 

 or in other comfortable situations, but as a rule they are character- 

 istic of the open Arctic barrens, and on the wide expanse of deso- 

 late snow, their tracks are among the few evidences of life the trav- 

 eller finds in crossing the Alaskan tundras in winter." 



KEY TO SPECIES AND SUBSPECIES. 



Cranial characters. 



I. Upper and lower incisors strongly and regularly curved, meet- 

 ing within the arc of a circle mutually described by their ex- 



H Kep. Nat. Hist, Col. Alaska, 1887, pp. 271-273. 

 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



posed outer faces. Upper incisors rooted on the inferior bases 

 of the premaxillaries. Diameter of upper incisor wider than 

 deep, its face strongly and broadly grooved. 



la. Nasals compressed and narrowed anteriorly ; bony palate 

 longer than width of postpalatal fossa; narrow incisive 

 foramina terminating opposite anterior alveolus of pm. 1 ; 

 narrow premaxillary process falling short of base of 

 nasal ; breadth of rostrum opposite bases of pm. 1 shorter 

 than distance from alveolus of pm. 1 to alveolus of poste- 

 rior incisor; total length of adult skull never exceeding 

 100 mm. (95 to 99 mm.), molars narrow, rounded — 



arcf icus. 

 lb. Similar to la — bang si. 



lc. Nasals broad, equilateral, flattened ; bony palate shorter 

 than width of postpalatal fossa ; the wide incisive fora- 

 mina reaching nearly opposite base of pm 2 ; broad pre- 

 maxillary process reaching to or beyond base of nasal ; 

 breadth of rostrum equal to or greater than distance be- 

 tween alveolus of pm^J. and the base of corresponding 

 secondary incisor ; total length of adult skull always ex- 

 ceeding 100 mm. (101 to 115 mm.) ; molars very broad 

 and angular — tochuktsehorum. 



II. Jaws prognathous ; upper and lower incisors meeting at angles 

 of 35 to 50 degrees. Upper incisors rooted on the anterior 

 floor of the maxillaries. Diameter of upper incisor deeper than 

 wide, its slender sulcus filled with a functional, indurated, stri- 

 ate cementum approaching the consistency of enamelled dentine 

 at the cutting edge. 



2a. Nasals compressed and narrowed anteriorly ; bony palate 

 shorter than width of postpalatal fossa ; incisive foramina 

 reaching opposite anterior alveolus of pm. 1 ; narrow pre- 

 maxillary process falling short of base of nasal ; breadth 

 of rostrum opposite bases of pm- 1 equal to or shorter than 

 distance between the base of P'»- 1 and the apex of the 

 incisive foramina ; total length of adult skull exceeding 

 100 mm. ; molars broad, angular, very massive as com- 

 pared with slender incisors — gr&n/andicus. 

 External characters. 

 I. Size medium, length of hind foot 1* times that of ear from 

 crown. Tail always white. Upper body fur in summer, dark 

 tawny gray to nearly pure white. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



la. Summer fur : ears black ; back and sides dark gray ; 



rump blackish — bangsi. 



lb. Summer fur : ears grayish-black ; back and sides hoary 



gray, belly and vent pure white — (Interior subspecies ?) 



lc. Summer fur: ears grayish-white ; back, rump and sides. 



white, sprinkled with gray arcticus. 



Id. Similar to lc — grcenlandicus. 



II. Size very large ; hind foot If times as long as ear from crown. 



Tail dusky above in summer. Upper body fur in summer 



grayish or blackish-brown. 



2a. Summer fur : ears sooty brownish-black and gray, their 

 posterior margins, white ; back blackish smoke-brown, 

 becoming grayish-brown on sides, rump darker — 



tschuktschorum. 



Genus LEPUS Linnaeus. 

 Lepus Linnaeus, Systema Naturse, 1758, p. 57. (Type L. timidus L.) 



1. Lepus arcticus " Leach " Ross. Baffin Land Polar Hare. 



Lepus arcticus Ross, Ross' Voy., 8vo ed., II, 1819, appx. iv, p. 151. Type 

 from lat. 73° 37', Baffin Land, southeast of tape Bowen. 



Lepus ^facialis Leach, Ibid (Under Chap. 'Descr. N. Sp. Anim. Disc, in Voy. 

 to Arc. Reg.'), p. 170. (Same type). 



Lepus timidus var. arcticus, J. A. Allen, Mon. N. Amer. Rod., 1877, p. 288 

 (in part). 



Lepus arcticus "Leach" Ross, Bhoads, Amer. Nat., 1890, p. 25"2. 



Geographic distribution. — Northern Baffin Land and the Arctic 

 Archipelago; intergrading southeastward into subspecies bangsi, 

 and south-centrally into a gray, pallid race. 



Habitat. — Open rocky barrens and tundras, preferring in sum- 

 mer the borders of thickets ; most abundant on rocky and hilly sea 

 coasts ; always avoiding the shelter of trees or bushes, but retreat- 

 ing to rock crevices for escape from an enemy. 



Color. — Summer pelage white, interspersed over back more or 

 less sparsely with long, gray-black and brown-pointed hairs, but not 

 sufficiently to greatly alter the prevailing whiteness. Ears and face 

 grayer, with a tawny shade, the former with black tips. Winter 

 pelage pure white everywhere, except tips of ears, which are black. 

 Summer pelage, in more southerly districts, darker, intergrading 

 into subspecies bangsi. 



Cranial characters. — Total length of skull twice the greatest 

 breadth. Nasals broad and flattened posteriorly, narrowed and 

 compressed anteriorly, their greatest breadth 2^ times greatest 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



length, their bases reaching behind the superior prolongation of 

 premaxillaries. Supraorbital frontal processes widely and deeply 

 indented posteriorly, highly and broadly arched and upraised above 

 the frontal plane. Posterior interorbital constriction tumid, arched 

 high above anterior frontal plane and wider than alveolar length of 

 molar series. Upper anterior incisors rooted at the inferior ruax- 

 illo-premaxillary sutures, the termini of incisor roots marked by 

 decided lateral osseous convexities of the rostrum. Incisors broader 

 than deep (transverse exceeds the longitudinal diameter), the ante- 

 rior upper pair each deeply and widely grooved by a single sulcus 

 on the inner face. With the skull, minus mandibles, resting on a 

 plane, horizontal surface, the chord of the arc described by the ex- 

 posed incisors is vertical and the radius of this arc is about one- 

 eighth G\j 2 <y) the basilar length of skull. 24 Lower incisors rooted 

 anterior to pm. 1. Incisive foramina reaching to pm- 1 , suddenly 

 broadening and then contracting at base. Palatal bridge longer 

 than width of incisive foramina. Palatal foramina opposite divid- 

 ing alveolus of second and third premolars. 



For measurements, see table, pages 374, 375. 



General remarks. — As only one specimen of the Baffin Laud 

 Hare, and that consisting merely of head and neck skin with the 

 skull of a young adult animal, has come to hand, it is impossible to 

 furnish a description and measurements of typical adult ardieus, as 

 compared with its southeastern subspecies, bangsi. The descrip- 

 tions of older authors who have handled summer specimens, how- 

 ever, agrees substantially with the above diagnosis. The skull, 

 which was taken from the above mentioned skin by myself, I have 

 considered typical of the form described by Ross, and on this basis 

 rests the separation of the Greenland Hare from ardieus. 



Mr. Ludwig Kumlien, referring to the hares of south Baffin 

 Land, states that " Many do not undergo any change of color dur- 

 ing summer, and I doubt if it be more than a partial change with 

 any. I have seen pure white specimens during all the summer 

 months, and occasionally one about half gray." 25 In a communica- 

 tion dated Milton, Wis., March 4, 1896, Mr. Kumlien writes me : 

 " I saw no gray hares at any season and I was told at Washington, 

 by Dr. Emil Bessel, that Capt. Hall made [the same] observation 



24 For a comparison between the cranial and external characters of ardieus 

 and timid it*, see Ainer. Nat., 1. c, pp. 252, 253. 



M Notes on Mam. of Cumb. fcJd., Smiths. Misc. Coll., No. 15, 1S79, p. 53. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



as regards the hares of Baffin Land. This [statement] was included 

 in ray mss. of Bulletin No. 15 [1. c.] and crossed out by the final 

 proof-reader, leaving my bare statement." Mr. Kumlien brought 

 four specimens of Cumberland Gulf hares to the United States. 

 One of these (No. 12,946, Sm. Inst.), a skin in white pelage, lacking 

 head, is the only one remaining, the rest having been lost or acci- 

 dentally destroyed by fire at the Wisconsin University. 



No other Baffin Land specimens being discoverable, Ave are 

 forced to rest our assumptions of the cranial characters of the hares 

 of that region on the single skull which has come to hand. The ap- 

 parent discrepancy between the dark color of this summer speci- 

 men and that reported by Mr. Kumlien in the above quotations is 

 explainable. An examination of the itinerary of the Howgate 

 Polar Expedition shows that Mr. Kumlien was absent from Baffin 

 Land between the 6th of July and the 31st of August, which more 

 than covers the short period in which the Polar Hares of that lati- 

 tude retain their full summer pelage. The " gray " phase noted by 

 him was the intermediate condition of molt. Captain Hall's state- 

 ment may have related to the more northern form. 



Lepus arcticus and its subspecies, bangsi, may be cranially dis- 

 tinguished from timidus of Sweden by the greater relative height 

 and breadth of skull to its length, by the upraised anvil-shaped su- 

 praorbital processes and the relatively short, broad incisive fora- 

 mina. Taking summer specimens of southern Sweden and Labra- 

 dor, strictly comparable on account of latitude, the external charac- 

 ters separating arcticus from timidus are striking, the former being 

 ■dark plumbeous-gray above, with black ears, and unicolor white tail, 

 the latter rusty brownish-black, with darker ears of the same color, 

 and bicolor gray and white tail. Typical arcticus undoubtedly re- 

 sembles closely, in summer pelage, the hare of North Greenland, L. 

 gramlandicus. 



Specimens examined. — Baffin Land, Niatilik, 1 head and neck 

 skin, with skull. Interior form, N. W. Territory, 1 skin, 2 skulls. 



Xepus arcticus bangsi Rhoads. Newfoundland Polar Hare. PI. IX, figs. 1, 2 & 3. 

 PI. X, figs. 1 & 2. 



Lepus arcticus bangsii Rhoads, Amer. Nat , 1896, p. 253- Type from Codry, 

 Newfoundfound, No 3,752, ad. ?, Col. of E. A. & O. Bangs. Collected by 

 Ernest Doane, Aug. 3, 1895. 



Geographic distribution. — Newfoundland, northeastern Labrador 

 -and southern Baffin Land. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Habitat. — Hiding by day in rock piles on the coasts of Cumber- 

 land Gulf. Starting up out of range and running up the mountain 

 sides to escape the hunter. — Kumlien. High rocky hills of New- 

 foundland, descending in severe winters to lower grassy levels, but 

 never in woodland. Hiding by day among rocks or under a bush. 

 — Doane. 



Color. — Adult summer pelage: entire back and upper sides, in- 

 cluding neck, shoulders and outer surfaces of thighs, uniform, dark, 

 grizzled gray, faintly suffused with tawny. A pinch of hairs from 

 near the middle of back shows the following color pattern : under 

 fur fine, tawny-white basally, becoming tawny at distal end ; over- 

 fur white or black at base in about equal proportions, the coarser 

 black-based hairs black throughout, the finer white-based hairs 

 with terminal half, black, interrupted by a subterminal band of 

 white or pale tawny. Lower head (including chin), lower neck, 

 nape, forebreast to forelegs, lower sides, edges of thighs and rump, 

 dark, plumbeous gray, flecked with very long, slender, white hairs. 

 Lower breast, belly, vent and tail white, bordered by a nearly clear 

 plumbeous edging which separates the ventral from the abdominal 

 regions and joins the dark rump along the inside of thighs. Inner 

 anterior border of hams, sides of hind feet and toes, and lower sur- 

 faces of forelegs, white, thinly intermixed with leaden. Outer sur- 

 faces of fore and hind legs and superior surfaces of the feet, tawny 

 gray. Ears and space between them, black, becoming grayish at 

 base and with a narrow, whitish outer posterior margin from near 

 base to tip. Upper head, including cheeks and nose, grizzled hutfy 

 grav, appreciably lighter than the gray shades of the back. Eye- 

 lids whitish, edged with black. Whiskers weak and sparse, white 

 and black in equal proportions, the longer black hairs tipped with 

 white. 



Winter pelage: entire fur, exclusive of ears, white. Extreme 

 tips of ears, black, the median anterior borders of ears, grayish ; in- 

 side of ears, blackish. 



Summer young, two-thirds grown, very similar to adults of same 

 season but more fulvous above, the ears grayer, the basal half of 

 back hairs leaden, their terminal half tawny brown with gray and 

 black tips. 



( ranial characters. — Not distinguishable from those already given 

 for arcticus. 



Measurements 26 (taken in flesh): average of four adults: total 



26 For measurements of type bangsi see table, pp. 374, 375. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



length 600 millimeters, hind foot 164; ear, from crown, 84 ; tail 

 vertebra? 60. Skull : total length 97 ; greatest breadth 49 ; great- 

 est diagonal length of nasal 41 ; greatest length of mandible 76 ; 

 greatest breadth of mandible 47 ; alveolar length of upper molar 

 series 17.8. 



General remarks. — This form has the most southern distribution 

 of the Arctic Hares of America. It is found about eight degrees 

 farther south than the most southerly locality inhabited by the 

 Lepus timidus group of the Old World, and twelve degrees south of 

 the southernmost habitat of our Alaskan representative. As al- 

 ready stated, it is quickly distinguishable from timidus by its clear, 

 blackish-gray summer coat and black ears. It owes its separation 

 from arcticus to the greater average temperature and humidity of 

 its environment, intergrading with the parent stock across the bar- 

 ren grounds of Baffin Land. From L. tschuktschorum it is easily 

 separable on account of smaller size, and its black ears and bluish, 

 grizzled cast contrast decidedly with the sooty-brown shades of the 

 Pacific coast animal. From the form inhabiting central British 

 America the exact amount of difference is not determinable, owing 

 to lack of specimens. 



Specimens examined. — Newfoundland, 5 skins, 6 skulls ; Labra- 

 dor, 5 skins, 10 skulls. 



Lepus grcenlandicus Rhoads. Greenland Polar Hare. Pis. VI, VII & VIII, figs. 

 1.P1. X. figs. 5, 6 A. :• 



Lepus glacialis Peters, Die Zweite Deutsch Nordpolarf., II, 1874, pp. 164- 

 167, pi. 2. 



Lepus grcenlandicus Khoads, Amer. Nat., 1896, p. 254. Tvpe from Robert- 

 son's Bay,*lat. 78°, Greenland. No. 1,486, ad. J (?), Col. of Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila. Collected by C. E. Hite for the Peary Eelief Exp., Aug. 2, 1892. 



Geographic distribution. — Greenland and Grinnell Land. Ice- 

 land ? ' 



Habitat. — Everywhere quite numerous in southern Greenland, 

 but preferring secluded places and the snowy mountains. — Fabri- 

 cius. Rocky hillsides, keeping closely to snow patches in summer. 

 — Heilprin. On the plains and mountains at all seasons, though 

 never numerous. — Dr. Pansch (fide Peters 1. c). 



Color. — Adult summer pelage (of type) white, suffused anteriorly 

 with light tawny and sparingly sprinkled with gray over upper 

 head and ears ; back with scattering black, gray and tawny-tipped 

 hairs. Tip of ears black. Tail, sides and lower surfaces, pure 

 white. Whiskers black and white, Half-grown young in July 



■^Misspelled 'Robinson's Bay' in the original description. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



and August, like adult, but darker, owing to greater abundance of 

 gray and tawny hairs and the leaden under-fur. Appearance of 

 young and old, at a distance, at all seasons, white. A pinch of hairs 

 from near middle back presents the following color pattern : short 

 under-fur very fine and silky white ; over-fur silky white with rarely 

 scattering black-pointed hairs and a few very long spinous hairs 

 with the basal two-thirds black, and the terminal one-third white 

 with a black tip. 



Winter pelage (No. 1,047, A. N. S., Phila. Port Foulke, Green- 

 land) pure white throughout, except the black ear tips, which are 

 mixed with white hairs. Whiskers white. 



Cranial characters. — Total length of skull twice the greatest 

 breadth. Nasals narrow, compressed, their greatest breadth half 

 their greatest (diagonal) length. Superior premaxillaries barely 

 reaching bases of nasals. Supraorbital processes more greatly de- 

 veloped and widely flaring than in arcticus. Posterior interorbital 

 constriction narrow, its width considerably less than alveolar length 

 of upper molar .series. Upper anterior incisors rooted on the mam- 

 illaries nearly halfway from theinferior maxillo-premaxillary sutures 

 to pm. 1 , the termini of roots Lying within the inferior lateral plane of 

 the rostrum, but forming a marked interruption of the inferior ros- 

 tral profile, viewed laterally. Incisors slender, prolonged, dv- 

 than broad (transverse less than longitudinal diameter), the ante- 

 rior upper pair in adults, multistriate, the normal sulcus of inner 

 face, peculiar to all other members of the genus, being so filled with 

 a calcareous process as to obliterate the depression, the face of the 

 tooth presenting a more or less even, rounded and enamelled con- 

 tour, marked where the groove normally belongs by irreg- 

 ular longitudinal striae. 27 With the skull, minus mandibles, resting 



27 1 have submitted teeth of grcenlandicus to my friend Dr. J. C. Curry, a dentist 

 of Philadelphia, for examination of this character, lie defines it in the fol- 

 lowing words : " The groove on the face of the tooth i- filled with a grayish, 

 opaque, homogeneous substance, which, on first examination, would appear to 

 be continuous with the enamel. As it approaches the cutting edge it- density 

 increases and it i- more striated in appearance. A continued maceration of 

 the tooth, however, will enable the operator to separate this structure from 

 the enamel groove with a clear line of cleavage, and with care the part may 

 be removed entire. In the alveolus tin- structure i- not continuous through- 

 out the length of the root, but seems to have it- beginning in a little triangu- 

 lar flap, ai t "ue quarter of an inch from the entrance of the tooth pulp into 



the base of the incisor. Like the tooth itself, this sulcus tilling ha- a higher 

 per cent of inorganic matter as it approaches the cutting edge, varying from 

 about lo per cenl organic at base t.> L0 per cent at tip. At the incisive i 

 its composition seems more closely allied to that of the cementum of the osse 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



upright on a horizontal plane, the chord of the arc described by 

 the exposed incisors forms an angle to the horizon of 45 to 50 de- 

 grees, and the radius of this arc is about one-fifth ( t°o) the basilar 

 length of the skull. Roots of lower incisors extending to base of 

 pm . 2. Incisive foramina terminating opposite pm. 1 ; widest at 

 or near base. Palatal bridge shorter than greatest width of in- 

 cisive foramina. Palatine foramina opposite middle of pm^3. 



Measurements?* — Average of four adults: hind foot 147 millime- 

 ters ; ear, from crown, 98. Skull : total length 102 ; greatest 

 breadth 48 ; greatest diagonal length of nasal 41 ; greatest length 

 of mandible 75 ; greatest breadth of mandible, 49 ; alveolar length 

 of upper molar series 19. 



General remarks. — The peculiar incisor dentition of this species, 

 so far as I have been able to compare it with other members of the 

 genus Lepus, is quite unique, not only in the obliteration of the sul- 

 cus of the upper anterior pair but in the extension of the roots of 

 both upper and lower incisors, the former being planted far behind 

 the inferior anterior maxillary border and the latter reaching the 

 bases of the second premolars. 



Externally grcenlandicus will probably not be found to differ 

 materially, even in its summer dress, from typical northern arctieua. 

 Fabricius, whose experience was mainly confined to southern Green- 

 land, twice asserts that its summer coat does not change in color 

 from that of winter. Whether grcenlandicus will prove to be en- 

 tirely distinct from the hares inhabiting Iceland and the extreme 



ous tooth than anything else." 



While a formation analogous to this structure is seen in some adult speci- 

 mens of all the species of Polar Hares I have examined, in no case does it as- 

 sume the prominent and functional character which it invariably attains in 

 adult grcenlandicus. In the others it manifests itself as a homogeneous de- 

 posit along the bottom of the sulcus ; in the Greenland animal it is a laminate 

 bistriate structure, having its inception near the base of the tooth in a honey- 

 combed hastate flap which lies within, but does not touch the sides of the sul- 

 cus and which, as it extends toward the crown of the tooth, increases in den- 

 sity and calibre and is closely cemented within the groove. On the exposed 

 surface of the incisor it often overtops the contour of the face of the tooth 

 and widens up on the tooth face in the form of a protuberant lamina, with 

 from one to three irregular longitudinal stria; upon its enamel-like surface. 



In nearly mature foetal specimens of gramlandicus there is not the slightest 

 indication of this incisor groove layer. In young gramlandicus, one month 

 old, the cementum has begun to form closely along the bottom of the groove 

 and reaches along the median third of its length to the alveolar edge of the 

 premaxillary. At this period its consistency is that of indurated cartilage. 

 In specimens apparently but lately arrived at maturity, the sulcus is partly 

 filled to the tip, and in very old skulls the groove is obliterated, as described 

 above. 



23 For measurements of type grcenlandicus, see tables, pp. 374, 375. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



North Polar regions westward, is an interesting problem, which 

 lack of specimens prevents me from answering. That it is radically 

 distinct from any American or Old World species represented in 

 the collections at my disposal, is certain. 



Through the courtesy of Mr. William De Winton, of the British 

 Museum, I am in receipt of the following information about the 

 hares of Grinnell Land : " The collection is rich in specimens of 

 old and young from more northern localities, and those from Dis- 

 covery Bay, Lincoln Bay, etc., have the characters [of groznlandi- 

 eus] mentioned [in your letter], viz. : the projecting, narrow, slightly 

 grooved incisors." Accompanying this. Mr. De Winton sends a 

 full length tracing of an upper incisor from a skull from Lincoln 

 Bay, 82° 7', Grinnell Land, which unmistakably belongs to the 

 grcenlandicus type. He further says that these incisor " characters 

 are not so marked in the small brown young," and that " Green- 

 land specimens are more curved, so far as our collection shows, but 

 they seem to me to get straighter with age, till the angle of meeting 

 is considerably less than a right angle." In all particulars Mr. 

 De Winton's examinations not only confirm but emphasize my own. 

 Respecting the color of the young, which he incidentally mentions 

 as " brown," it is of interest to note that while hall-grown individ- 

 uals are very light bluish-gray (nearly white), the newly born 

 young and fully developed embryos collected by Dr. Hays at Port 

 Foulke, Greenland, in the Academy's collection, are quite dark and 

 resemble in color and color pattern miniature summer specimens of 

 L. timidus, but are grayer. The embryos arc densely clothed with 

 long hair. The number of specimens in each litter above mentioned 

 is four. Whether the full complement in each case was preserved, 

 I am unable to state. The most satisfactory and reliable account 

 of the Greenland Hare that I have seen is the one by H. W. 

 Feilden, already referred to, in which he treats of these animals in 

 Grinnell Land as observed by the Nares Expedition. The speci- 

 mens secured by Mr. Feilden are those referred to above by Mr. 

 De Winton, which I have identified as grcenlandicus. Feilden 

 found the young of the year to have become nearly pure white by 

 the end of July. The number of young in a litter was seven to 

 eight. Tracks of this Hare were seen on the Polar Sea in lat. 

 83° 10', twenty miles north of the nearest land. 



Specimen* entwined. — Tort Foulke, Greenland, 1 mounted skin 

 and skull, 1 skull and 8 embryos in alcohol. Robertson's Bay, ( Jreen- 

 land, 3 skins, 7 skulls. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



Lepus tschu.ktsch.orum (Xordquist). Bering Sea Polar Hare. Pis. VI, VII & 

 VIII figs. 3. PI. X, figs. 3 & 4. 



Lepus timidus var tschuktschorum Xordquist, Vega Exped., II, 1883, pp. 84 

 -90; figs. 8, 9, 10, p. 88. Type locality, Pitlekaj, lat. 67°, Ion. 173°, N. E. 

 Siberia. 



Geographic distribution. — North western Alaska, from the mouth 

 of the Kuskoquim River, northward. 29 (Northeast Siberia.) 



Habitat. — Abounding in the open coast country and in the inte- 

 rior open barrens of the river valleys ; seeking the shelter of 

 ravines and willow scrub in severer weather but often found at such 

 times in the open barrens. — Nelson. 



Color. — Adult summer pelage (No. 3,780, A. N. S.,Phila., Choris 

 Peninsula, Alaska) ; upper surfaces of head and body, blackish 

 smoke brown, becoming grayish-brown on the sides of body, neck 

 and head. Median line of back smoky-black, sparsely tipped with 

 dull tawny ; rump purer black. Crown to nape like median line 

 of back. Region around eyes, cheeks and nose dull rusty-black, 

 grayer on lower jaws and with a white orbital ring. Chin and fore- 

 throat, lower surfaces of limbs and feet, lower neck, chest, belly, 

 vent and tail, white. Lower abdominal region clouded by a faint 

 band of black hairs. Lower neck blackish-gray, suffused with 

 tawny. Upper limbs and feet tawny gray, the hind feet nearly 

 white. Median outer surface of ears sooty brownish-black, sprinkled 

 with dull tawny, tawny gray and black on the inner surfaces, and 

 white along the posterior borders ; tips of ears black with brown 

 and gray intermingled. Whiskers white. A few black hairs at 

 upper base of tail. A pinch of hairs from near middle of back, about 

 two inches from the vertebral line, shows the following color pat- 

 tern : under-fur coarse, grayish-white at base, brown or sooty at 

 distal end. Over-fur black, with or without a subterminal brown 

 zone, intergrading into black spinous hairs, which form nearly 

 twenty per cent of the dorsal pelage. 



Winter pelage (No. 13,887, Col. Smiths. Inst.,, St. Michaels, 

 Alaska), pure white, except extreme tips of ears, which are black, 

 with rusty-based hairs. Whiskers white. 



Cranial characters. — Total length of skull less than twice its 

 greatest breadth. Nasals very wide, flattened, nearly as wide ante- 

 riorly as at base, their greatest breadth more than half their great- 

 est (diagonal) length. Superior premaxillaries heavy, broad, reach- 



29 See Nelson, Rep. Nat. Hist. Col. Alaska, 1887, p. 271. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ing behind bases of nasals. Supraorbital processes as in bangsi. 

 Posterior interorbital constriction narrow, its relative width to al- 

 veolar length of upper molar series as in grcenlandicus. Upper an- 

 terior incisors rooted as in arcticus, their roots not forming decided 

 maxillar convexities, owing to the great relative width of rostrum. 

 Form and position of incisors as in arcticus, but heavier. Molars 

 much heavier. Incisive foramina as in arcticus. Palatal bridge as 

 in grcenlandicus. Palatine foramina as in grcenlandicus. 



Measurements. — Average of three adults: hind foot, 176 milli- 

 meters; ear, from crown, 96. Skull: total length 103.5 ; greatest 

 breadth 54 ; greatest (diagonal) length of nasal 42.5 ; greatest 

 breadth of nasals 23; width, at tip, of upper incisors 66; alveolar 

 width of upper incisors 9.8 ; alveolar length of upper molar series 

 20 ; greatest length of mandible 80 ; greatest width of mandible 51. 



General remarks. — The Polar Hare of West Alaska, as will be 

 seen by its measurements, represents the maximum development of 

 the Arctic group in America. Added to great size we have in 

 ischuktschorum several cranial and external characters which sepa- 

 rate it from arcticus and its eastern subspecies so plainly that there 

 is little doubt of their specific value. Among these we may note 

 an approach in color to timidus of Sweden, but the uniformly broad 

 flattened nasals, the great relative width of skull and large calibre 

 of the dental armature and the anvil shaped, upraised supraorbital 

 processes induce me to specifically distinguish it. A skull from 

 Plover Bay (Smith. Inst., No. 7,180) should be classed strictly as 

 ■tschuktschorum. Reference to the table of measurements >hows 

 its dimensions to be of the largest. The relative zygomatic width 

 is narrower, but in all other respects the Siberian skull is typical of 

 the Alaskan as contrasted with the Scandinavian and Baffin Land 

 animals. The researches of Radde 30 ami Middendorff" show that 

 the Polar Hares of east Siberia do not specifically differ from the 

 European species either in color or in cranial characters, the latter 

 mentioning the occurrence of this species in the Btanovoi Range 

 which extends into the Tschuktschee country. Four skulls from 

 Kamtchatka, in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, show 

 beyond question that the small timidus type of Polar Hare inhabit- 

 ing that region is very different from the hare which frequents the 



M Beisen im Ost-Sibirieii, 1, L862, pp. 207-211. 

 :il Sibirische Reise, 11, 1853, p. 115. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Plover Bay territory. Brandt 32 says that " Wossenessenski ob- 

 served the true form of Lepus variabilis in Kamtchatka and the 

 coast provinces of Okotsk Sea, to be entirely white as far as the tips 

 of the ears ; " but the reference is of little value except in regard to 

 the distribution and winter pelage of this hare in the maritime 

 provinces of southeast Siberia. Schrenck 33 says the Amoor Land 

 hares are not separable from the Polar Hare of Europe except that 

 he regards the southern form as a variety of the northern, applying 

 to it the name canescens of Nilsson, in which the normal change 

 from the dark summer pelage to the white of winter presents an in- 

 termediate gray phase of coloration which is retained the whole 

 winter season. As we would naturally expect, from the known 

 character of the west Alaskan fauna, it furnishes us not only with 

 the largest of our American Polar Hares, but with the darkest col- 

 ored example of the whole group of Arctic Leporidw I have yet 

 seen. 



Nordquist's description of the Tscuktschee Hare leaves no room 

 for doubt as to its specific identity with the Alaskan animal. 

 Owing to my lack of summer skins of this hare from Siberia it is 

 impossible to say whether the Alaskan animal is separable as a 

 darker race, though such a state of affairs is likely to exist. 



The elaborate table of measurements given by Nordquist confirms 

 my own conclusions regarding the great size of the Bering Sea 

 Hare, the relative shortness of its ears, the great length of the hind 

 foot and the strong peculiarities of the cranium. 



I am informed that this hare, in common with some other species 

 of the mammal fauna of these regions, is frequently known to cross 

 Bering Strait on the ice in the winter. 



Specimens examined. — Alaska, 3 skins, 4 skulls ; Siberia, 2 skins 

 (winter furs, without feet), 1 skull. 



3I Reisen im Amur.-Lande, 1, 159, p. 1845. 

 33 Bern. Wirbelth. Nord. Eur. Russl., p. 44. 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF FHILADELPHIA. 



375 



BODY MEASUREMENTS OF TWENTY ADULT AMERICAN, SIBERIAN AND 

 SCANDINAVIAN POLAR HARE-. 



Locality. 



Remarks. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 

 Plate VI. 



Fig. 1. Lepus grcenlandieus Rhoads. Robertson's Bay, Greenland. 



(Topotype, No. 3,779, Acad. Nat, Sci., Phila.). 

 Fig. 1. Lepus timidm L. Near Stockholm, Sweden. (No. 408, U. S. 



Nat. Mus.). 

 Fig. 3. Lepus tschuktschorum (Xordq.). St. Michael's, Alaska. 



(No. 1,588, U. S. Nat. Mus.). 



Plates VII & VIII. 

 Figs. 1, 2 and 3. Inferior and superior views of the same skulls fig- 

 ured in Plate VI, in the order there named. 



Plate IX. 



Figs. 1, 2 and 3. Lateral, superior and inferior views of Lepus are- 

 tlcus bangsi Rhoads. Codry, Newfoundland. (Type. No. 

 3,752, 9 • Col. E. A. and 6. Bangs). 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Plate X. 



Figs. 1 and 2. Lepus arcticus bangsi Rboads. (Type). Mandible 

 and super anterior view of rostrum. 



Fig. 3. Lepus tschuktschorum (Nordq.). (No. 1,588, 1. c). Man- 

 dible. 



Fig. 4. Upper incisor typical of timidus and arcticus types. (From, 

 a specimen of Alaskan L. tschuktschorum). 



Fig. 5. Lepus grcenlandicus. (No. 3,779, 1. c). Upper incisor. 



Fig. 6. Lepus grcenlandicus. (No. 3,779, 1. c). Mandible. 



Fig. 7. Lepus grcenlandicus. (No. 3,779, 1. c). Super anterior view 

 of rostrum. 



Fig. 8. Lepus timidus L. (No. 408, 1. c). Mandible. 




1896.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 377 



July 7. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " New and little-known Mammalia from the 

 Port Kennedy Bone Deposit," by Edward D. Cope, was presented 

 for publication. 



July 14. 



Mr. Charles Morris, in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 "Insular Landshell Faunas as illustrated especially by the data 



obtained by Dr. G. Baur in the Galapagos Islands." By William 



Healey Dall. 



"New Species of Fungi from various localities." By J. B. Ellis 



and B. M. Everhardt. 



July 21. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



July 28. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A paper entitled, " The Hemipenes of the Sauria," by Edward 

 D. Cope, was presented for publication. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 



25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



NEW AND LITTLE KNOWN MAMMALIA FEOM THE POET KENNEDY 

 BONE DEPOSIT. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The notes contained in the following pages are based on mate- 

 rial acquired by the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 from the locality above mentioned, and are preliminary to a com- 

 plete and illustrated report which I hope to be able to publish after 

 a full investigation of all accessible material. This paper extends 

 and modifies the conclusions communicated to the Academy at the 

 meeting of December 5th, 1895, where a general survey of the results 

 was given. After a fuller study of the material presented, I have 

 been compelled to reduce the relative number of existing species 

 whose remains have been recovered. While the total number of 

 species of mammalia is thirty-eight, the number of existing species 

 is only six. They are as follows : 



Erithizon dorsatum L. 



( 'odor fiber L. 



Lepus sylvaticus Bachm. 



Urms americanus L. 



Felu eira Desm. 



Lynx riifiis Guld. 



The remains of birds are not abundant, and consist chiefly of a 

 species of turkey (Meleagris). Of reptiles there are a snake of the 

 genus Zamenis and three species of turtles. One of the latter 

 seems to be identical with the existing Clemmys insculpta Lee, 

 while the others are apparently new. One is a large form, perhaps 

 referable to Clemmys, and the other is a box tortoise. 



BRUTA. 



Megalonyx wheatleyi Cope. 



This species was extremely abundant at the period when the fissure 

 was open, fragments of at least sixty individuals having been ob- 

 tained. The species is uniformly smaller than M.jeffersonii,and differs 

 from it constantly in the form of the canine molars. Material for 

 determination of the cranial characters has been found. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



Study of the specimens shows that 31. dissimilis Leidy was founded 

 ■on inferior canine molars of 31. jeffersonii, and that the teeth so 

 named by me are the corresponding teeth of 31. wheat ley i. M. 

 sphenodon was founded on teeth of young individuals of 3F. wheat- 

 leyi. 31. loxodon and 31. tortulus are sustained as distinct. 



GLIRES. 



Anaptogonia hiatidens Cope. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1871, p. 91, fig. 18. 



I have described from the Wheatley collection several species al- 

 lied to or belonging to the voles, and in this paper I add two others. 

 These forms are referable to those genera, which are defined as fol- 

 lows : 

 Pulp cavity and lateral grooves closed below ; teeth rooted ; 



Anaptogonia Cope. 

 Lateral grooves and pulp cavities open below ; no roots ; 



Microtus Selys. 



The first term in the Microtine series of genera is the genus Anap- 

 togonia, where the crowns of the molars are short at maturity, and 

 there are rather elongate roots. This is naturally the primitive 

 genus, and it is interesting now that two fossil species referable to it 

 have been discovered. 1 



But one species of Anaptogonia has been obtained from the cave 

 formations of this country, Anaptogonia hiatidens Cope. It is rep- 

 resented by two series of the inferior molars of the right side, a first 

 inferior molar separate, and some superior molars. The prism-for- 

 mula? of these teeth are as follows : (1) 1 six-lobed | 1 ; (2) § 1 ; 

 {3) 1 t 1. The first molar is larger than both of the others together. 

 Its triangles f are isolated, but anterior to these, one on each side is 

 well defined, but the dentine is continuous with that of the anterior 

 lobe. This lobe consists of two prominent basal loops, and two less 

 prominent terminal rounded lobes, all unsymmetrical. There are 

 thus six keels on each side of the crown and a rounded front bor- 

 der. The triangles of the M. ^ are acute, and the anterior of the 

 opposite sides are not fully separated from each other, a strip of 

 dentine connecting them. In the M. ^ the triangle of one side is 

 less developed than the other, and the one extremity of the last col- 

 umn is smaller than the other, forming rather a curved process of 

 a terminal triangle of the opposite side. The pulp cavity is well 

 enclosed below, and the two roots are rather small and divergent. 



x See Merriam, North American Fauna, No. 2, 1889, p. 28; On anew 

 Genus and Four new Species of Arvicolinse. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



As compared with A. rutila of the northern parts of the earth, 

 this species has double the linear dimensions of the teeth. 



Measurements. m.m. 



C longitudinal of crown ; 6 



Diameters of M. 7 -! anteroposterior ; 4 



(transverse posteriorly ; 1.6 



( longitudinal of crown ; 5 



Diameters of M. ^ < anteroposterior ; 2 



(transverse posteriorly ; 1.5 



( longitudinal of crown; 5 



Diameters of M. 3 < anteroposterior ; 2 



(transverse posteriorly ; 1 



The teeth of the second specimen are a little larger than those 

 above measured. They are in a decayed jaw, with the incisor in 

 place, and they agree with the types in all details, excepting only 

 that the external column of the anterior lobe is not grooved. 



The first inferior molar, which was originally described and fig- 

 ured, is peculiar in the failure of the anterior triangles to isolate 

 themselves from each other. This character turns out to be incon- 

 stant, as in two other corresponding teeth the triangles are closed. 

 The name Anaptogonia was applied to the species in a subgeneric 

 sense, and although based on a worthless character, must, under the 

 rules, be retained. It antedates the Evotomys of Coues. which was 

 proposed in 1874 in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 186, for voles with rooted molars. 

 Anaptogonia cloacina Cope sp. nov. 



Crowns prismatic, the common pulp cavity with lateral walls 

 which close the lateral grooves, but do not close the pulp cavities ; 

 no roots. 



The dentition of this species is that which is regarded by G. S. 

 Miller as that of the immature stage of the specie? which were termed 

 by Merriam Phenacomys. I do not see that this dentition can be 

 distinguished from that of Anaptogonia. 3 



Two individuals of this species are indicated by the specimens 

 preserved by Mr. Mercer. These include, the first, the M. 2 and 

 M. 3 ; the second, the M. A and M. -. As usual in this group, 

 the molars diminish in size posteriorly. The triangle formula? are : 

 M. 1,1 |; M. M 1 ; M.X 1 ^j .3 | bes. 



- North American Fauna, No. 12, 1896, p. 10. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



In the M. i the triangles of one side are acute angled ; and of the 

 other, obtuse-angled. The posterior triangle presents an angle pos- 

 teriorly as well as laterally. In the M. £ the same characteristics 

 exist, with the addition that the anterior (terminal) triangle has its 

 acute column pinched together, but not so as to exclude the dentine. 

 In the M. - the entering angle (groove) of one side enters the tri- 

 angle of the other side opposite to it, so as to destroy its triangular 

 character. The second triangle of the same side is also reduced by 

 the deep inflection of the opposite groove. Opposite the apex of 

 the second groove, a rudimental third triangle is present in the form 

 of the section of a keel of the surface. This, I reckon as one of the 

 three divisions of the terminal lobe. The other two are not well 

 distinguished, one opposite to the keel just mentioned is an acute 

 angle, and the terminal one is strongly convex. Thus on this tooth 

 there are three keels on one side and four on the other. The ante- 

 rior (terminal) column is flattened. Excepting on the M. ^, all the 

 triangles are well isolated. 



Measurements. m. m. 



(longitudinal; 7.5 



Diameters M. ■*- sp. no. 1 <J anteroposterior ; 3.3 



^transverse; 2 



(longitudinal; 6 



Diameters M. ^ sp. no. 2 <J anteroposterior ; 2.7 



( transverse: 2 



(longitudinal; 5.5 



Diameters M. 2- sp. no. 2 \ anteroposterior ; 3 



(^transverse; 1.7 



The walls of the common pulp cavity are broken off in most of 

 the teeth of this species above described, but portions remain in most 

 of them, and in the M. 2. they are so far perfect as to show that the 

 pulp cavity is not closed below as in Evotomys. 

 Microtus diluvianus sp. nov. 



The numerous species of the genus Microtus are distinguished 

 into groups by various characters, e. g., those of the molar teeth, of 

 the size of the ears, tail, etc. The extinct species can be most read- 

 ily determined by dental characters, and as these are in all the spe- 

 cies less matters of proportion, and more a question of the number 

 of parts, they are to be preferred as possessing greater fixity. 

 Thanks to the excellent work of Blasius on the Mammalia of 

 Europe (1859), it is possible to determine the relation of the Amer- 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ican species to the types of the divisions proposed by European 

 authors. I am also much indebted to my friend, Mr. 8. N. 

 Rhoads for the opportunity of examining skulls of a number of rare 

 North American species, and especially those described by himself 

 from the Pacific coast. 



The species differ as to the number of triangles in the first inferior 

 premolar. There is, however, some lack of constancy in the relations 

 of the anterior triangles to the treffle so that I have depended 

 rather on the characters of the second molars in both jaws for con- 

 venience of definition of the larger groups. Thus, in the species of 

 the M. pinetorum group, the last two triangles on one side fuse to a 

 median position similar to that of the first column. In the other 

 groups, where this tooth has two triangles on each side, the second 

 superior molar differs in the number of its triangles. There are al- 

 ways two on the external side ; but the posterior outer may be pro- 

 longed to the inner side, or this prolongation may be cut off into a 

 distant triangle. These divisions include the following species : 



A. Second inferior molar, triangles, z 1. 



1. Second superior molar, triangles, 1 §, Agricola Blasius. M. 

 agrestis Europe. 



2. Second sup. molar triangles, 111, Myonomes Raf., M. ripariut, 

 E. N. Amer. ; .1/. principalis, N. W. N. Amer. 



3. Second sup. molar triangles, 1 f ; Microtus Selys (=Hemiotonnj.< 

 Selys, Paludicola Bias., Tetramerodon Rhoads). M. amphibius ; 

 M.nivalis; M.ratticeps; M. campestris ; M.p/rvalis; M. subterra- 

 neus; M. savii, Europe; M. xanthognathus ; M. townsendii; M. 

 arricoloides, N. America ; M. speothen : M. sigmodtu; M. invo- 

 lutes; M. diluvianus Extinct, N. Amer. 



A A. Second inferior molar, triangles, 1 t 1. 



4. Second super, molar, triangles, 1 f, Pitymys McMur. M. p 

 torum, N. Amer. ; M. didelta, Extinct. N. Amer. 



The large size of Microta* diluvianus Cope distinguishes it from 

 all the extinct and recent American members of the genus. It is 

 only represented by the M. i-- 2 of both sides, so that many of its 

 characters remain to be discovered. The triangle formula of these 

 teeth is M. i 1 |, M. - If. In both molars the triangles are acute 

 and are well closed, and the posterior one presents an angle poste- 

 riorly. The lateral keels are ^ and |. The valleys are wide open below. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



f longitudinal ; 

 Diameters M. - -\ anteroposterior; 



^ transverse ; 



f longitudinal ; 

 Diameters M. 2 -[ anteroposterior ; 



(_ transverse ; 



Microtus speothen Cope. Proceeds. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1871, p. 87 

 (Pitymys) tetradelta, 1. c, 1871, pp. 87-8, fig. 14. 



Arvicola tetradelta was founded on the M. i and 2 of an in- 

 dividual of smaller size than the types of A. speothen, but not other- 

 wise different. 



The species Microtus invohdus from the Port Kennedy deposit is 

 allied to M. sigmodus, while M. didelta is more nearly related to 

 M. pinetorum. 



CARNIVORA. 



TJrsus haplodon sp. nov. Ursus pristinus Leidy, Cope, Proceeds. Amer. Philos. Soc, 

 1871, p. 96, not Arctodis pristinus Leidy, Proc. Acad. Philada., L854, 90 : Holmes, 

 Postpliocene Foss. So, Carolina, 1860, 115, pi. xxiii, figs. 3-4. 



There ar,e contained in the Academy's collection, remains of 

 thirty-six individuals of this large bear from the Port Kennedy fis- 

 sure, and parts of several others are included in the Wheatley col- 

 lection. Study of this material has led me to the conclusion that 

 Ursus pristinus of Leidy is a distinct though allied species. The 

 latter was founded on a single tooth, the first inferior true molar of 

 the left side. This tooth cannot now be found, but Leidy has given 

 a figure which is of much excellence from an artistic point of view, 

 and judging from other figures in the same work, is probably trust- 

 worthy, especially as it corroborates the description in every par- 

 ticular. I should have hesitated to distinguish the present animal, 

 however, had it not been that the Port Kennedy material includes 

 fourteen teeth from the same position in the jaw, three of which are 

 in the Wheatley collection. These all agree closely and differ 

 from Leidy's animal. 



Leidy notes that in U. pristinus the anterior width of the 

 tooth exceeds the posterior, and the figure confirms this statement. 

 In U. haplodon the extremities of the crown are of equal width. 

 The grinding surface of the crown is in U. pristinus rough with 

 tubercles, while it is smooth in U. haplodon. This character 

 might be supposed to be due to the attrition of use, but it is uni- 

 versal in the teeth of U. haplodon without regard to age. The 

 trigon in U. pristinus is triangular; in U. haplodon it is a semi- 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



circle. The apex of the triangle is in U. pristinus internal, and 

 it is split by a fissure which separates paraconid from metaconid. 

 In U. haplodon the paraconid is wanting. In this respect U. 

 pristinus more resembles the modern bears. I suspect that U. pris- 

 tinus is distinct from U. haplodon, but of the same group; more 

 approaching the typical Ursi. It is of smaller size, about equaling 

 the grizzly. 



Ursus haplodon belongs to the American type of the Plistocene 

 and present ages, which is distinguished from the typical Ursi by 

 the greater development of the sectorial part of the first inferior 

 true molar. This is due to the more anteroposterior direction of the 

 paraconid, the larger size of the protoconid and the smaller size of 

 the metaconid. The tooth makes a sensible approach to that of 

 Hycenarctos. To this group belong the following species, and they 

 differ in the following ways : 



I. Superior premolars crowded, overlapping. (South American.) 

 Large species ; U. ornatus Cuv., U. bonaerensis Gerv. 

 Smaller species ; U. brasiliensis Linn. 



II. Superior premolars uninterrupted, not overlapping. (Cali- 

 fornian.) 



Muzzle very short ; U. <imus Cope. 



III. Superior premolars spaced. (E. X. America.) 



Muzzle moderate; U. haplodon Cope. 



Where U. pristinus should be placed in this series can only be 

 ascertained by future discovery. The three species first named 

 are separated from Ursus under the name of Tremarctus (Gerv- 

 Arctotherium Brav.), as the humerus exhibits an entepieondylar 

 foramen. It is not known whether the last two species possess this 

 character or not. 



A conspicuous character is common to the living Tremarctus 

 ornatus and Ursus (f Tremarctus) haplodon, which is not present in 

 Tremarctus bonaerensis of the Pampean beds. There are two mas- 

 seteric fossa? of the mandible, which are separated by a crest which 

 extends obliquely downward and backward from below the coro- 

 noid process. 



The size of the teeth of this species, as well as that oi the jaws 

 preserved, exceed the average dimensions of the grizzly bear 

 {Ursus horribilis). U. haplodon was evidently one of the most 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



formidable of its genus, and it probably found an abundant supply 

 of food in the sloths of the genus Megalonyx, which were the most 

 abundant of the contemporary mammalia. 



Osmotherium spelaeum Cope. 



This genus is characterized by inferior dentition as in Mephitis, 

 but the dental formula Pm. 4, M. 2. Metaconid well developed ; 

 heel of sectorial large, cupped. 



The inferior dental formula of this genus is that of the extinct 

 form, Potamotherium, which intervenes between Mephitis and 

 Lutra. The typical species of Osmotherium, however, resembles 

 Mephitis so greatly in its inferior dentition that I suspect that the 

 superior molar formula will be found to be Pm. 3, M. 2, as in Me- 

 phitis, instead of Pm. 4, M. 2, as in Potamotherium. The latter 

 genus is of the Miocene age in Europe and North America, the 

 genus Brachypsalis Cope from the Loup Fork formation of Ne- 

 braska being probably founded on a species of Potamotherium. 

 The presence of an additional premolar is important in the Musteli- 

 dse, but might in some case prove to be a mere individual variation, 

 but in the present instance this is clearly not the case. 



Osmotherium spelaeum Cope is represented by a left mandibular 

 ramus which contains alveoli or roots of the C. and Pm. 4-2, with 

 Pm. 1 and Ms. 1-2 perfectly preserved. 



The ramus is robust, and its inferior border rises from below the 

 heel of M. 1 upward and posteriorly ; in Mephitis mephitica the 

 ramus is less robust, and the inferior border begins to ascend below 

 the posterior part of the M. II. The anterior border of the mas" 

 seteric fossa is not sharply defined. There are three mental fora- 

 mina, the first and second below Pm. 2, and the third below Pm. 

 1, the anterior being the largest. The molar teeth are much like 

 those of M. mephitica, but are more robust. The metaconid is 

 considerably smaller than the protoconid as in Mephitis putorius, 

 and smaller than in M. mephitica. The borders of the heel are 

 strongly and equally elevated, enclosing the basin completely. The 

 Pm. I differs from that of M. mephitica in presenting a flat face 

 inward and posteriorly, which is bounded externally by an angu- 

 lar ridge, as in .V. fossidens. The crown of the Pm. 2 is mostly 

 lost, but a short, flat transverse heel remains, which is similar to 

 but smaller than that of the Pm. I. The anterior root of Pm. II 

 is opposite the posterior root of the Pm. Ill ; while the Pm. IY is en- 

 tirely and directly in front of the anterior root of Pm. II, and ex- 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ceeds it in size. The dental foramen enters at a point as far poste- 

 rior to the M. II as the long diameter of the latter, about as in M. 



mephitica. 



Measurements. m. m. 



Length of ramus from M. II inclusive, 29 



Length of molar series ; 25 



Length of true molars ; 13 



Length of sectorial ; 10 



Width of sectorial at heel ; 5.5 



Length of heel of sectorial ; 4.5 



Length of crown of M. II ; 3 



Depth of ramus at Pm. IV ; 9 



Depth of ramus at posterior body of M. I ; 9 



The only question as to the validity of this form that can arise, is 

 due to its similarity to Mephitis fossidens. See the description of 

 the latter below. 

 Mephitis fossidens sp. nov. 



Two species of the genus Mephitis Linn, occur in the bone de- 

 posit in considerable abundance. After a cursory examination 

 I referred both of them to M. mephitica, 3 but a thorough study 

 convinces me that this reference must be reconsidered. I give a 

 table by which they may be distinguished from the best known re- 

 cent species, M. mephitica and M. putorius. I add here that Dr. 

 Merriam has endeavored to substantiate the reference of the latter 

 species to a separate genus under the name of Spilogalt .* He gives 

 a list of characters which he regards as generic, but which arc to 

 me specific only, as they only consist of proportions of the skull and 

 teeth. 



I. M. 1 with para- and metaconule forming a straight longi- 

 tudinal crest; no posterior ledge. 

 Mctaconid small, low; inferior premolars 2— 3 overlapping ; ento- 

 conid low : M. fossidens Cope. 



II. M. i with distinct Y-shaped para- and nietaconules sepa- 

 rated by a fossa inwardly. 

 Mctaconid small, low ; interior premolars 2-3 not overlapping ; 

 ramus, lower border rising posteriorly ; entoconid low ; 



M. orthostichus Cope. 



'Proceeeds. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1895, p. 117 

 * North American Fauna. No. 1. L890, p. 5. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



III. M. i without metaconule, but with a broad posterior 

 ledge ; paraconule V-shaped. 

 Metaconid small; premolars not overlapping; ramus not rising 

 posteriorly ; smaller ; M. putorius L. 



Metaconid large ; premolars not overlapping ; ramus rising poste- 

 riorly ; smaller ; entoconid elevated : larger ; M. mephitica L. 



The characters above assigned to the species of Mephitis are es- 

 tablished by numerous specimens. There are twenty-eight individ- 

 uals represented by jaws and teeth in the Port Kennedy collection. 

 Of them I can only determiue fifteen. My own collection and that 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences include a number of skulls 

 of M. mephitica, while the collection of Mr. S. N. Rhoads includes 

 as many more, which he has kindly placed at my disposal. For 

 my knowledge of the cranial dentition of M. putorius series I am 

 also indebted to Mr. Rhoads, and to the monograph by Dr. Mer- 

 riam above cited. 



A species of this genus was found by me in a cave breccia in 

 Wythe County, Virginia, and a left mandible ramus with complete 

 dentition was obtained. I described it under the name Galera per- 

 dicida? Dr. Coues has suggested that this species was founded on 

 a specimen of Mephitis putorius, and on a reexamination of the 

 specimen I am inclined to believe that he is correct. 



Mephitis fossidens 6 is represented by parts of the jaws with teeth 

 of eight individuals. In only one of these do superior and inferior 

 molars occur together, and this one is, therefore, regarded as the 

 type. The species is of the same size as M. mephitica, and was 

 supposed at first to be identical with that animal, until further study 

 revealed several important differences. 



The peculiarities of the dentition have been already pointed out 

 in the synopsis of species. These are found in the relations of the 

 paraconule and metaconule of the M. i, in the small metaconid of 

 the inferior sectorial, and in the overlapping of the premolars. 

 The character of the M. i is seen in three specimens ; of the ante- 

 rior premolars in one, and of the inferior sectorial in six. The an- 

 terior portions of the mandibular rami are often injured, and the 

 canine teeth are preserved in only two specimens, and the incisors 

 in none. 



5 Proceeds. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1869, p. 177, PI. Ill, fig. 1. 



6 Fur Bearing Animals, 1877, p. 2 i. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The inferior molars resemble those of M. mephitica but differ 

 in the following points : The metaconid is much smaller, resem- 

 bling that of M. putorius. The entoconid is small and low. The 

 Pra. 1 has a flat face, presenting backward and inward and is 

 bounded by a ridge on the external side. This face is rounded in 

 M. mephitica. The overlapping of the Pm. 2 and 3 does not oc- 

 cur in the latter. The inferior border of the ramus rises gently 

 from below the posterior part of the M. y. The angle is prominent 

 and the condyle occupies a position inferior to that seen in Mephitis 

 mephitica and M. putorius, in the two jaws in which this part is pre- 

 served. It does not rise above the level of the molars as it does in 

 M. mephitica. 



The M. i is the most characteristic part of the dentition. The 

 crown is traversed by two parallel anteroposterior crests ; the ex- 

 ternal consisting of the paracone and metacone, and the internal of 

 the paraconule and metaconule. The posterior border is deeply 

 notched between the two, and the anterior border less so. The pro- 

 tocone is represented by a cingulum which occupies the anterior 

 half of the interior base of the crown, enclosing a fossa with the 

 paraconule. Its border then rises vertically to the iuner longitu- 

 dinal crest which it joins about the middle. Just exterior to this 

 crest is a small tubercle which may represent a metaconule. An 

 external cingulum except at the base of the metacone. No ante- 

 rior or posterior ciugula. 



In the existing species of Mephitis the protocone is continued 

 into a wide ledge round the posterior side of the crown as far as the 

 base of the metacone. The paraconule is V-shaped and does not 

 reach the posterior part of the crown. 



Measurements. m. m. 



Diameters of M. I \ ^posterior (greatest) ; 8 



( transverse ; y.O 



Length of inferior sectorial : 11 



Depth of mandibular ramus at ~ t ; 6 



No. 2 (with angle of mandible). 



Length of M. T ; 11 



Length from M. y to condylr ; 26 



Length from M. 7 to angle; 23.5 



Depth of ramus at M. y ; 7.5 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



No. 3 (with canine). m. m. 



Length of dental series ; 31 



Length of true molars and Pin. 1 ; 21 



Length of M. T ; 11.5 



Depth of ramus at M. y ; 8 



This species represents a section of the genus distinct from M. 

 mephitica, with which it is connected by M. orthostichus Cope. 

 Mephitis orthostichus sp. nov. 



This species is represented by superior first molars of five individ- 

 uals and mandibular rami of two others. Unfortunately in no case 

 are inferior and superior dentition of the same individual preserved 

 together. In one individual both rami are preserved. 



This species is intermediate in size between M. mephitica and M. 

 putorius, and resembles the latter species in the small metaconid. 

 It resembles M. mephitica in the rising inferior outline of the man- 

 dibular ramus, and differs widely from both species in the character 

 of the superior M. A 



The superior M. A instead of presenting two parallel longitudinal 

 crests, has a slightly curved crest representing the paraconule, 

 which reaches a trihedral cusp, the metaconule. Thus is produced 

 an internal longitudinal crest which presents a convexity anteriorly 

 and an angle posteriorly, and an entrant angle between the two. 

 The protocone is a mere cingulum which rises to the apex of the 

 metaconule, and extends no further, so that there is no posterior 

 ledge as in the existing species. "While the internal crest is quite 

 different in its zig-zag character from that of M. fossidens, the species 

 further differs from the latter in the inferior premolars which do not 

 overlap, and in the inferior size. The posterior border of the M. i 

 is not so deeply notched as in M. fossidens. 



The inferior dentition does not differ from that of M. mephitica 

 except in the small metaconid and entoconid, and the flatter pos- 

 terointernal face of the Pm. 1, in which it resembles M. fossidens. 

 The third premolar is in contact with the canine, and has two roots 

 which do not overlap those of the second. The crown is longer 

 than either and has a heel with a recurved rim. The third has the 

 same, while the fourth is a narrow heel, with a recurved rim all 

 around it. In no specimen is the angle of the mandible preserved. 

 Measurements. m. in. 



No. 1 ; superior M 1 

 jy . f anteroposterior ; 8 



( transverse (greatest) ; 8 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



No. 2; both mandibular rami. m. m. 



Length of premolar series ; 1 1 



Length of molar series; 13.5 



— , T (anteroposterior; 10 



Diameters M. T j transverse of heel 3 



~. ,, ( anteroposterior ; 3.5 



Diameters M. s ] transx 4 rse; 2 .5 



Depth of ramus at Pm. 1 ; 9 



Depth of ramus at Pm. 2 ; 10 



No. 3 ; smallest ramus. 

 Length of last three molars ; 17 



Length of M. T ; 9.5 



Depth of ramus at Pm. 1 ; 6 



Depth of ramus at M. 2 ; 8 



In two last superior molars the short angle connecting the 

 metaconule with the paraconular crest is rudimental or wanting, so 

 that the arrangement only differs from that of M. fossideus in the 

 greater separation of the metaconule from the crest. Such teeth 

 are nearly transitional between the two species, but they maintain 

 the inferior size of M. orthostichus. The two types of molars 

 might be regarded as representing male and female, but for the 

 difference in the relations of the inferior premolars, as pointed out 

 in the analytical table of species. 

 Pelycictis lobulatus, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. gen. — Dental formula Pm. 3, M. j. Sectorial with basin- 

 shaped heel, and without metaconid. Premolars without posterior 

 lobe. 



The genus Pelycictis is only known from the mandible. The 

 dentition agrees in number of teeth with both }fej>hitls and Puto- 

 rius. From the former it differs in the absence of metaconid, and 

 from the latter in the basin-shaped heel of the sectorial molar. 

 From Gulo it differs in the presence of but three premolars. But 

 one species is known, P. lobulatus Cope, represented by an entire 

 left mandibular ramus containing all the teeth excepting the third 

 premolar and the incisors. 



Char, specif. — This weasel is larger than any of the existing 

 species of PvJtorius of North America, but equals P. vittatw of 

 Brazil. In some respects the parts preserved resemble the corre- 

 sponding ones of Mephitis orthostichus, but the differences are also 

 conspicuous. The ramus is rather robust, and the symphysis is 

 short. The inferior border is regularly convex, arid rises to the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



angle, latter projects as far posteriorly as the condyle. The condyle 

 is rather elevated, its inferior border being in the horizontal line of 

 the apices of the cusps of the sectorial. The coronoid process pre- 

 serves its anteroposterior width to near the apex, which is broadly 

 rounded, and not contracted, as in Lutra species. There is a longi- 

 tudinal keel on the inner side of the angle, distinct from the inferior 

 margin. 



The teeth form a continuous series, the anterior premolars not 

 overlapping. The canine is rather small ; the crown is somewhat 

 compressed, and is not grooved or facetted, but is smooth. The 

 second premolar has the heel produced backward. In the first pre- 

 molar the heel is a cingulum, and is not produced. The metaconid 

 of the sectorial is represented by a convexity of the internal edge of 

 the protocone. Heel concave, with an elevated border on the 

 internal edge only. This consists of a larger lobe or entoconid, and 

 a smaller between it and the lobe representing the metaconid. 

 Entoconid not elevated, resembling that of the extinct species of 

 Mephitis already described. No cingula. The tubercular molar 

 has a semicircular concave grinding surface, and no cingulum. 



Measurements. m. m. 



Length of ramus from canine to condyle inclusive ; 42 



Depth of ramus at Pm. g ; 7 



Depth of ramus at M . ■j 8 



Depth at condyle ; 7.5 



Depth at coronoid process ; 22 



Length of dental series ; 25 



Length of true molars ; 12 



Diameters of base of crown of canine ; 3.5 



Elevation of crown of canine ; 4 



{elevation ; 3.5 



anteroposterior; 8.5 



width of heel. 3.5 



The jaw described is about the size of that of the common skunk. 

 Lutra rhoadsii Bp. nov. 



Portions of both mandibular rami with the right superior tuber- 

 cular molar represent this otter. The right ramus supports part of 

 one of the premolars, a large part of the sectorial, and the tubercular. 

 The left ramus supports the tubercular. In the right ramus the 

 alveoli of the premolars and part of that of the canine are preserved. 

 All belong to one individual, aud were found in place in the 

 matrix. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



This species differs from Lutra canadensis in two conspicuous 

 points ; first, the inferior border of the mandible is a nearly straight 

 line to the angle ; second, the third premolar is nearly transverse to 

 the long axis of the jaw in position, in consequence of the much 

 shorter mandibular symphysis. 



The coronoid process is at right angles to the horizontal ramus 

 and its anterior and posterior borders are straight and of equal in- 

 clination to the obtuse apex ; the posterior border is convex in L. 

 canadensis. The angle is opposite the base of the sectorial ; in 

 L. canadensis, it is opposite the apices of the cusps of the sectorial. 

 The anterior border of the masseteric fossa is below the middle of 

 the tubercular molar. The inner side of the ramus is flat and not 

 grooved, except immediately above the angle. The mental foramina 

 are below the middle of the first, and the anterior root of the second 

 premolars. 



Both the internal and external borders of the inferior tubercular 

 molar are elevated, the former as a low cusp. The crown is hori- 

 zontal in position and is not tipped forward as in L. canadensis. 

 An external basal cingulum on both this tooth and the sectorial. 

 In the latter the metaconid is well developed ; the protoconid and 

 paraconid are broken away. The basin of the heel has the form of 

 of that of L. canadensis, and the external cutting edge is notched 

 in front. The first premolar is longitudinal in position, but the 

 anterior root of the second premolar is interior to the middle line. 

 The internal root of the third premolar is near the middle of the 

 superior face of the ramus, but the interior root is anterior to the 

 internal border of the anterior root of the second premolar. Both 

 are close to the canine alveolus. The crown of a premolar was dis- 

 placed and adherent in the alveolus of the root of the paraconid of 

 the sectorial. The crown probably belongs to the second premolar. 

 It has no lobe on its posterior edge, and is expanded posteriorly at 

 the base. The superior tubercular has lost its paracone and meta- 

 cone. The interior part of the crown is a broad table with the 

 protocone as an obtuse cusp on the interno-anterior border, with a 

 cingulum at its base. This part of the tooth is much like that of 

 L. canadensis, but is not so convex posteriorly. 

 TJncia mercerii Cope. Froceed.*. Academy Nat. Sciences Phila., L895, p, H x . 



Crocuta inexpeetata Cope. ). o., p. 449. 



Additional material of this large feline confirms its distinctness. 

 The sectorial tooth referred to the genus Crocuta as above cited. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



with reservation that it might be found to pertain to a feline animal, 

 must be referred here. The superior sectorial is peculiar in the 

 small indication of jirotocone as in the Smilodons. 



DIPLARTHRA. 



Cariacus laevicomis sp. nov. 



A series of superior molars of the right side lacking the last one, 

 represents this species. There were obtained at about the same 

 time the basal parts of the antlers of two deer of the same size, 

 which I suspect to belong to this species. There are various bones 

 of the skeleton of probably the same. 



The true molars have internal basal columns, and the internal 

 crescents send backward and outward processes into the lakes, as 

 in the existing North American species of the genus. The molars 

 are of the size of those of C. virginianus, but the premolars are 

 smaller. The first and second are especially reduced in anteropos- 

 terior diameter, and while the third is larger than these, its form is 

 different from that of the corresponding tooth in any species of this 

 genus or of Coassus. The anteroposterior diameter of the crown 

 does not exceed the transverse, and there is no ridge of the external 

 face such as is present in all the Cervi, but only a slight convexity. 

 This ridge is present, but indistinct in the other premolars. It is very 

 strong on the paracone of the true molars, but weak on the meta- 

 cone. The horns of all the crescents are well developed. The width 

 of the base of the crowns of the true molars is greater anteriorly 

 than posteriorly. There are no processes entering the lakes of the 

 premolars such as are usual in the species of Cariacus. 



Measurements. m. m. 



tv n t> -. (anteroposterior; 11 



Diameters oi rm. 1 < , v 10 



( transverse ; 12 



Diameters of M. 1 



| anteroposterior ; 15 



| transverse; 16 



Diameters of M. 2 { anteroposterior ; 16 



( transverse ; lb.5 



The fragments of horns both include the bur. This is not very 

 prominent, and the beam is quite smooth. There are indications of 

 tines, but they are broken off at the bases. In the shorter fragment 

 a tine is given off on the internal side, but it is broken off near the 

 base, and the beam beyond its base is also lost. In the second frag- 

 ment the position corresponding to the internal tine is split away 

 26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Above it the beam is somewhat compressed anteroposteriorly, and 

 sends off a smaller tine directly anteriorly. The beam in both is 

 entirely smooth. 



Measurements. in. in. 



Diameters of beam No. 1 at base j J^™^" ' ' \* 



Elevation to internal tine ; 13.5 



Anteroposterior diameter of beam No. 2 at base; 17.5 



Anteroposterior diameter of beam No. 2 at superior 



base of anterior tine ; 15.5 



Transverse diameter of anterior tine ; 14 



Elevation of anterior tine above base; 27 



The smoothness of the beam of the horns distinguishes this species 

 from the existing species of Cariacus of both North and South 

 America, and resembles the condition seen in the species of Coassus, 

 where the horns are unbranched. The inferior tine originates 

 nearer the bur than in the known species of Cariacus, while the 

 anterior tine is present only in species (C. campestris) where the 

 interior tine is absent. The longer beam preserved shows no tend- 

 ency to an anterior curvature such as is present in most of the 

 species of the genus. 



The true molar teeth of this species are of about the same size as 

 those of the Virginia deer. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



INSULAR LANDSHELL FAUNAS, ESPECIALLY AS ILLUSTRATED BY THE 

 DATA OBTAINED BY DR. G. BAUR Id THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS. 



BY WILLIAM HEALEY DALL. 



INTRODUCTORY, 



The Galapagos Islands, lying under the equator about 90° west 

 of Greenwich, comprise two principal groups separated by nearly 

 1 ,200 fathoms of water. One of these groups, northwest of the other, 

 contains only Culpepper (550 ft.) and Wenruan (830 ft. elevation) 

 Islands and a few insignificant rocks. Culpepper, owing to its 

 small elevation, is nearly barren, while Wenman shows on its upper 

 surface a thin coating of grass and other vegetation. From neither 

 of these has any collection been made or is any land shell known. 



The main group of the Galapagos rests on an elevation of the sea 

 bottom included within the 1,000 fathom line. It may be provision- 

 ally divided into three groups, a southeastern, a central and a north- 

 eastern, in all about a dozen islands and some smaller islets and 

 rocks. 



The southeastern group comprises Charles, Chatham, Hood and 

 Barrington Islands. Hood is destitute of water in the dry season 

 and green only in the wet season, owing to its small elevation which 

 does not bring it into the region of condensing clouds. Much of 

 the surface is covered with blocks of lava. Chatham and Charles 

 are among the most fertile islands of the group. 



The central islands include the largest of the whole, Albemarle, 

 which appears to consist of several primitive islands united by low 

 areas of volcanic material ; Narborough, which exhibited volcanic 

 activity as lately as 1836 ; James ; Indefatigable, and the much 

 smaller Duncan Island, besides a number of islets. 



The northeastern group comprises three comparatively small 

 islands Abingdon, Bindloe and Tower. 



The floral characteristics of the Galapagos have been mentioned 

 by Darwin, fully discussed by Hooker and well described by "Wolf, 

 while Tanner, Baur and Agassiz have added the facts gathered by 

 later explorations. I shall, therefore, merely briefly summarize the 

 characteristics which these writers have noted. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The vegetation of the islands appears to be divided into three 

 distinguishable zones. Near the sea-level the basaltic or tufaceous 

 volcanic rocks of which the islands are exclusively composed, appear 

 almost devoid of plants, especially in the dry season, except dry 

 grayish-white, apparently dead brushwood which grows thickly be- 

 tween the blocks of ash and lava, and which on close inspection 

 exhibits inconspicuous small leaves and flowers. The most common 

 according to Wolf 1 and Agassiz 2 are a Verbena bush and an 

 Acacia, with an occasional tree known as the Palo Santo. Near the 

 beaches are a few species of salt loving plants, probably all identi- 

 cal, with forms also known from similar localities on the mainland. 

 Cacti, Opuntia and Cereus, are found among the blocks of lava, 

 where nothing else grows. This zone extends to a height of 800- 

 1,000 feet, the rains in general being limited even during the rainy 

 season (February or later, to July) to the higher levels above 500- 

 600 feet. The change to the second zone is sometimes very abrupt, 

 but on the leeward side of the islands the arid region extends higher 

 than on the southern side from which the moisture-bearing winds 

 come. 



The second zone is green and wooded, the Acacia and Palo Santo 

 increase in size, the Verbena disappears, and the region shows num- 

 erous open grassy spaces. The volcanic rocks, under the influence 

 of moisture, have become decomposed into a soft reddish earth. 



The last and highest region is bare of trees, having the aspect of 

 an undulating plateau covered with a rather coarse grass, which ex- 

 tends to the highest summits of many of the islands. Here even in 

 the dry season, there is a more or less constant deposition of moist- 

 ure from the mi*ts which sweep over the islands. However, both 

 above and below, on several of the islands, extremely barren local- 

 ities or areas occur of strangely desolate aspect ; in some instances 

 the arboreal vegetation of the second zone is supplemented at the 

 sea-level by thickets of mangroves or other shrubby trees, so that 

 there is, among the island floras, no absolute rule without an excep- 

 tion or two. 



The sea currents about the islands and between them and the 

 mainland are very complicated. In a general way it may be said 

 that two currents converge upon the islands, one from an east-north- 



1 Ein Besuch der Galapagos Inseln mit drei Kartchen, 1870. 



2 General sketch of the expedition of the Albatross, Feb.-Maj, 1891; Ball. 



M. C. Zool., XXIII, No. 1. 1892. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



easterly direction from the Gulf of Panama, and another from a 

 southeasterly direction from the Peruvian coast. Both are strong 

 currents, both have doubtless contributed their aid in populating 

 the Galapagos, but in this the Panama current seems to have pre- 

 dominated, not only because it has a shorter traverse, but because 

 around the Gulf of Panama and on the banks of the rivers falling 

 into it, a luxuriant fauna and flora are found close to the sea, while 

 along the Peruvian coast only in time of freshet could any large 

 quantity of debris be expected to reach the waters of the current, 

 owing to the aridity of the immediate shores. The two currents join 

 forces at some distance eastward from the islands, and pour through 

 the passages between them with considerable force. Professor Alex- 

 ander Agassiz has shown how much terrigenous material the Panama 

 current bears, and that there is no reason to doubt that trees still 

 bearing leaves and with some of their branches above water might 

 be carried from the Gulf and cast upon the islands, and that, at least 

 during the rainy season and in favorable years, there would be op- 

 portunities for animals so carried, especially land shells glued by the 

 epiphragm to the bark of branches, to gain vegetation on the shores 

 where they could support life and propagate their kind. Though 

 unproven, yet there can be little doubt that in this way the land 

 mollusk fauna of the islands was introduced and preserved. 3 



The first explorer of the Galapagos Islands for land shells was 

 Hugh Cuming, about 1830, who collected Bulimulus nux Brod., B. 

 ustulatus Sby., and B. unifasciatus Sby., on Charles Island ; B. rugi- 

 ferus Rve., B. calvus Sby., and B. jacobi Sby., on James Island ; 

 while from his collection at a later time were described B. eschar i- 

 jerus Sby., B. rugulosus Sby., B. verrucosus Pi Y., B. nucula Pfr., and 

 B. galapaganus Pfr., without definite reference to a particular 

 island. Assuming that the last three mentioned were collected by 

 Cuming and not obtained from later collectors, this comprises eleven 

 species. 



The next collection was made by Darwin in 1835, who obtained 

 Bulimulus Darwini Pfr., B. sculpturatus Pfr., a Helix (not named 

 or subsequently reported for over half a century but, perhaps, 

 Trochomorpha Bauri) and thirteen other species not specified at the 

 time, as well as a " Paludina " (probably an Amnicola) which has 



3 Attention has already been called to these facts by Dr. Stearns, but in or- 

 der to make the present discussion complete I have been obliged to restate 

 them briefly here. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



never been described or found since. Reeve mentions that Darwin 

 collected Bulimulus rugulosus on Chatham Island, but this is the 

 only species of Darwin's which I have been able to find in print 

 referred to any particular island. Darwin says in his journal 

 (Chapter XVII), " Of land shells I collected sixteen kinds (and 

 two marked varieties) of which, with the exception of one Helix 

 found at Tahiti, all are peculiar to this archipelago. A single fresh 

 water shell (Paludina) is common to Tahiti and Van Diemen's 

 Land." With the much closer drawn specific lines of the present 

 day, it is probable that both the " Helix " and " Paludina " would 

 be discriminated as distinct from their allies mentioned by Darwin. 

 A part at least of Darwin's Galapagos shells went into the Cuming- 

 ian collection, but I have been unable to discover any trace of the 

 remainder, which were probably scattered. 



The next recorded expedition to touch at the islands and bring 

 back land shells, was that of Kellett and Wood in 1846. The col- 

 lection was worked up by Professor Edward Forbes, who reports 

 seven species from Chatham Island, namely, Bulimulus nux, calvus, 

 eschariferus, unifasciatus, and rugulosus already known, and B. 

 chemnitzioides and achatcllinus Fbs., which he described as new. 



Subsequently whalers and sealers frequently touched at the islands 

 either for water or other necessaries, and a certain number of laud 

 shells reached Europe from the Galapagos Islands without positive 

 data in regard to their origin, and have been described by various 

 authors. Of these Bulimulus asperatus Albers, B. iucrastatus Pfr., 

 B. nuciformis Petit, B. amastroides Ancey, and several varieties of 

 rugulosus and eschariferus may be mentioned. 



In later years collections have been made by Dr. Simon Habel in 

 1868, who added one new species (Bulimu lus Habeli Stearns) to the 

 fauna of Chatham Island and collected B. chemnitzioides at Chatham, 

 B. Darivini at Bindloe and B. achatellinu.* at Hood Island. He 

 also collected Auricula stagnalis Petit, and Pedipes angulatus C. B. 

 Adams at Bindloe ; Melampus trilineatus C. B. Adams, Tralia pan- 

 amensis C. B. Adams, at Hood ; William ia peltoides Dall and Onchi- 

 della Steindachneri Semper, all new to the fauna. 



In 1872 the U. S. S. Hassler with the Agassiz party on board, 

 spent ten days among the islands, but no list of the species collected 

 has been published. 



In 1875 Dr. Theodor Wolf, geologist of Ecuador, visited the 

 islands and collected a few land shells subsequently described by P. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Reibisch in 1892, as will be more particularly discussed later. Dr. 

 "Wolf obtained the following species, mostly represented by a small 

 number of individuals, and too often in an imperfect state of preser- 

 vation. From Charles Island, B. unifasciatus, nucula, asperatus, 

 nux, niteiformis, ustulatus and calvus, known forms, and B. invalidus, 

 venustus, cinereus and nudus, described by Reibisch as new. From 

 Chatham Island, among known species, Wolf found B. incrassatus, 

 rugulosus, achatellinus, chemnitzioides, Succinea Bettii, and the fol- 

 lowing supposed to be new: B. terebra, ventrosus var., aculus, curtus, 

 lima, canaliferu8, Leptinaria cymatoferus, Helicina Wolfi and Succi- 

 nea Wolfi, described by Reibisch. From Albemarle Island, B. pal- 

 lidus, Simrothi and Papa munita, all regarded as new by Reibisch ; 

 Indefatigable Island supplied the new B. Wolfi and Pupa clausa 

 Reibisch ; and Barrington Island B. ventrosus Reibisch. These spe- 

 cies will submit to some additions from data furnished by letter 

 through the politeness of Herr Reibisch, who has also sent me for 

 examination a number of his types. 



H. M. S. Peterel, Commodore Cookson, visited Charles Island in 

 1875, obtaining B. nux in numerous varieties, B. unifasciatus, 

 eschariferus and the Succinea described by E. A. Smith as S. Bettii 

 and var. brevior, in honor of Staff-Surgeon Bett, who collected the 

 specimens. 



In 1888, theU. S. S. Albatross, Captain Tanner, of the U. S. Fish 

 Commission, during her voyage from Norfolk, Virginia, to San 

 Francisco, California, spent a short time in the Galapagos group, 

 and obtained a good many specimens of a few species of land shells, 

 which have been discussed by Dr. Stearns in the Proceedings of 

 the U. S. National Museum for 1892. The collection from Chatham 

 Island comprised Bulimulus nux, nuciformis, amastroides, chemnitzi- 

 oides, Habeli, and Succinea Bettii ; from Charles Island B. nux in 

 numerous varieties, rugulosus, eschariferus, Siphonaria gigas, Onchi- 

 della Steindachneri Semper, and the new 0. Lesliei Stearns ; Albe- 

 marle Island afforded B. nux and the two Onchidiums, while at 

 Hood Island Williamia peltoides was obtained. The A Ibatross again 

 visited the Galapagos under the direction of Professor Alexander 

 Agassiz in 1891, but no land shells appear to have been collected on 

 this occasion. 



The most thorough and important exploration for land shells 

 which has yet been made is that upon which this paper is essentially 

 based, namely, the expedition of Dr. G. Baur in 1890, in which 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



careful notes were made as to the occurrence of the different species, 

 not only as to the particular island, hut the altitude above the sea, 

 the sort of vegetation, rock shelter, etc., where the species were col- 

 lected. The results, tabulated by islands, of Dr. Baur's labors are 

 as follows : 



CHATHAM ISLAND. 



Bulimulus nux var. incrassatus, 1 ,600 feet on leaves. 



B. jacobi, typical form, 1,600 feet. 



B. achatellinus, 1,600 feet, under leaves. 



B. unifasciatus, 1,600 feet, under leaves. 



B. Bauri, n. s., 1,600 feet, under leaves. 



B. curtus, 1,600 feet, under leaves. 



B. nucula, 1,600 feet, under leaves. 



B. chemnitzioides, 1,600 feet, under leaves. 



B. eschariferus, near seashore under stones. 



B. Habeli, near seashore under stones. 



Conulus galapaganus, 1,600 feet, on leaves of plants. 



Vitrea chathamensis, 1,600 feet, on leaves of plants. 



Succinea producta, typical, 1,600 feet, on mossy rocks. 



Leptinaria chathamensis, 1,600-2,000 feet, on ferns. 



Helicina nesiotica, 1,600 feet, on leaves. 



CHARLES ISLAND. 



Bulimulus rugulosus.. B. galapaganus. 



B. planospira. Succinea brevior. 



SOUTH ALBEMARLE ISLAND. 



Bulimulus jacobi. Troehomorpha Bauri. 



B. Simrothi. Succinea Bettii and oorbia. 



Pupa Wolfii. ■ Leptinaria chathamensis. 



DUNCAN ISLAND. 



Bidhnulus olla. B. duncanus. 



BARRINGTON ISLAND. 



Bulimulus eschariferus var. ventrosus. B. olla. 



JAMES ISLAND. 



Bulimulus jacobi var. cinereus. Succinea Bettii, typical. 



INDEFATIGABLE ISLAND. 



Bulimulu* olla. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



The total, after suppressing a number of synonymous names, 

 amounts to twenty-seven discriminable forms collected from seven 

 out of the twelve principal islands by Dr. Baur. 



Dr. Baur's results leave little room for doubt that a thorough ex- 

 ploration of all the islands, and especially of Albemarle and Nar- 

 borough, would add materially to the number of determinable forms 

 and, therefore, that the time for finally discussing or speculating 

 upon the distribution of the species among the several islands has 

 not arrived. Albemarle, much the largest, should when explored 

 yield a larger harvest than the much smaller Charles or Chatham 

 Islands, which seem to have been better explored, because they have 

 better anchorages for a vessel. Narborough,said to be very fertile, 

 has not been explored at all for land shells; we have nothing at all 

 from Abingdon or Tower, and only three species from Bindloe. 



Nearly all the land shells of the Galapagos are more or less arbo- 

 real and pass much, if not the whole, of the dry season attached to 

 branches of shrubs or trees by a deposit of tough dry mucus form- 

 ing a hermetic seal to the aperture, as well as a means of fixation. 

 So tough is this material, that, when dry, the bark or the shell will 

 break easier than the epiphragm if one tries to dislodge a specimen. 

 The mucus is poured out in such quantity as not only to close the 

 aperture of the shell with a brownish parchment-like membrane, 

 but to fill the minor irregularities of the surface upon which the 

 aperture rests and to rise around the outer margin nearly a milli- 

 meter above the edge of the shell. About a third or half a turn 

 further inside the shell, the animal constructs a second epiphragm, 

 behind which it rests in a torpid state until a change in the season 

 leads to its awakening. Several specimens of Bulimulus planospira 

 which had been gathered more than a year and kept in a corked 

 vial, when they reached my hands, still contained the living animal 

 in his self constructed refuge, and doubtless other species would have 

 done the same if they had not been put in alcohol. Nearly all of 

 Dr. Baur's living Bulimuli were collected during the hibernating 

 season as indicated by the remains of bark and epiphragm still ad- 

 adhering to them. 



Of the species not known to construct an epiphragm there are 

 only a few identified from the islands, three small forms of Helici- 

 dce, a Leptinaria and Helieina, besides the semi-amphibious salt- 

 marsh loving Auriculidce, etc. The Helieina has a shelly operculum 

 with which it can hermetically seal its shell. Both it and the Hel- 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ices are forms which would be apt to hide in minute crevices of bark 

 or holes in decaying timber. The Leptinaria lives on ferns, and it* 

 minute size renders it possible that it might be carried on dead 

 leaves, etc., which an exceptionally high wind blowing for eight or 

 ten hours might carry to the islands. Such winds are not unknown, 

 especially in the tropics, and a single hurricane blowing in the 

 right direction might introduce a large number of seeds, insects, 

 fern spores and minute land shells, to say nothing of larger objects. 



It is obvious, therefore, that the derivation of the island flora and 

 land shell fauna does not present us with serious difficulties. Its 

 distinctively American type indicates the point of origin. Before 

 discussing this branch of the subject further, it may be well to refer 

 to the characteristics of the several islands, in order that the rela- 

 tions of the fauna to the fertile area may be considered. 



The islands which lie most directly in the track of currents and 

 winds are those of the southeastern group. Chatham is one of the 

 best known and most fully explored in the whole group, and is nota- 

 ble for the clean cut development of the three zones and the fertility 

 of its upper portion. On Charles there is less vegetation on the 

 lower levels but, according to Agassiz, the beach shows many plants 

 common to Panama and Guayaquil. Hood is so much lower than 

 the others (640 feet) as to be chiefly in the barren zone, covered 

 with lava blocks destitute of water in the dry season, and partially 

 green only in the rainy season. 



Of the Central group, Indefatigable is first in the track of the 

 current, and much resembles Charles and Chatham with a vast tract 

 of arable upland. Duncan is comparatively small with abrupt sides, 

 and has no living water, though its upper part is somewhat verdant. 

 The south and east parts of James Island seem partly sheltered by 

 Charles and Indefatigable from the prevailing trade winds ; at all 

 events they are dryer and less fertile than the portion north of 

 James Bay. Much of Albemarle Island is low and consequently 

 barren, having a desolate burnt aspect. The highlands of the 

 southern portion are covered with rich vegetation, and there are 

 elevated green patches near the northern end. Although there is 

 actually a larger area of vegetation on Albemarle than on either of 

 the other islands, yet the fertile region is not as large in proportion 

 to the total area as the size of the island on the chart would lead 

 one to expect. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Narborough, from which no land shells have yet been collected, 

 has a rich and abundant vegetation with a luxuriant growth of man- 

 groves on the eastern shore. This island was the last to exhibit its 

 volcanic activity, and the fauna may prove meagre, yet it can hardly 

 be doubted that it will afford a certain number of species and pos- 

 sibly some novelties. 



The islets of the northeastern group are small and comparatively 

 barren. Tower and Bindloe are not high enough to profit much by 

 the mists. Abingdon is higher, and with Bindloe shows a certain 

 proportion of green. No laud shells are known from Tower and 

 Abingdon. From Bindloe only the following are yet reported : 



Bulimulus Darwini, Auricula stagnalis, Pedipes angulatus. 



From the central group come : — Bulimulus Wolfi, B. duncanus* 

 B. calvus, B. jacobi, B. jacobi var. cinereus, B. olla, B. Tanneri, 

 B. unifasciatus, B. Simrothi, B. n. sp., near to Habeli, B. rugiferus,* 

 B. Reibischi, B. nesioticus, Trochomorpha Bauri,* Pupa clausa, 

 Pupa Wolfii, Succinea Bettii, Succinea corbis, Leptinaria chatha- 

 mensis, Leptinaria sp. larger than chathamensis, Helicina nesiotica. 



In all 21 forms, of which none is common to the northeastern 

 group of islands ; 14 are peculiar or not yet reported from either 

 the northeastern or southeastern group of islands ; one is of doubt- 

 ful locality but provisionally placed here on account of its similar- 

 ity to B. rugiferus ; and the remaining six are common to the south- 

 eastern group. Onchidium is not counted. 



In the southeastern group are found thirty-three forms (not count- 

 ing Onchidium), of which the following are peculiar to, or not yet 

 found outside of this group of islands : — Bulimulus mix, B. achatelli- 

 nus, B. rugulosus, B. nudus, B. planospira, B. ustulatus, B. eschari- 

 ferus and var. ventrosus, B. galapaganus, B. perspectivus, B. jacobi 

 var. acutus, B. nucula, B. amastroides, B. curtus, B. Bauri, B. 

 canaliferus, B. chemnitzioides,B. Habeli, Vitrea chathamensis, Conulus 

 galapaganus, Succinea producta, S. brevior. 



To which may be added: — Melampus trilineatus, Tralia pana- 

 mensis, Williamia peltoides, Siphonaria gigas. 



Omitting the Auriculidoz and Siphonariidoz, we have as supposed 

 peculiar forms in each group of islands, twenty-one characteristic of 

 the southeastern, fourteen from the central and one from the north- 

 eastern group of islands, which agrees well with the hypothesis that 

 the species originated with forms brought by winds and currents 

 which impinge first on the southeastern group. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



On the other hand, it is certain that the southeastern islands are 

 much better known than either of the other groups and that the area 

 and fertility of the central group are such that there is every reason 

 to suppose many more forms remain to be discovered there, perhaps 

 including some of those so far known only from the southeastern 

 islands. Prudence strongly urges that we know too little of the 

 mollusk fauna yet to intelligently discuss its inter-island distribution. 



Taking the forms enumerated in the table showing the distribu- 

 tion of the species and omitting the Onchidium and species of Auric- 

 ulidce and Siphonariidce, all of which are denizens of the salt marshes 

 or beaches, we have forty-six, of which fifteen are found on more 

 than one island, five on more than two islands and three are 

 found without material change on four islands; all of the latter are 

 found in both the central and southeastern groups of islands. One 

 of the species, and perhaps two, are probably common to the main- 

 land of South America as well as the Galapagos, and all of them 

 doubtless have been derived from the fauna of the Panamic and 

 ►South American region. 



The following table will show the distribution of the various spe- 

 cies among the several islands, as far as known, their presence being 

 indicated by an initial letter in the column devoted to the island 

 concerned. A, stands for the Albatross expedition ; B, for Dr. 

 Baur; C, for Hugh Cuming; D, for Darwin ; H, for Dr. Habel ; 

 K, for Kellett and Wood ; P, for the Peterel, Captain Cookson ; and 

 W, for Wolf as reported on by Reibisch, with some additions to his 

 printed list. The names are given in the left hand column, the col- 

 umns for the islands follow in the order of their distance from the 

 source of supply, approximately ; the last column sums up the num- 

 ber of specimens actually examined by the writer in preparing this 

 paper. 



One or two species are noted as new, which Herr Reibisch has 

 mentioned in his letters as now in his possession, in addition to 

 which are several Pupaa which he regards as new, but has not in- 

 formed me to which islands they should be assigned. 



Habits and environment. — With the exception of Dr. Baur no one 

 seems to have noted very particularly the exact location of the spe- 

 cies collected, either with regard to altitude or situs. A few of 

 Wolf's species are so noted, but, as most of his specimens were dead. 

 their value in such a discussion is impaired. Cuming noted the situs 

 but neglected the altitude. The matter really needs the attention 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



405 



TABLE OF DISTRIBUTION OF GALAPAGOS LAND SHELLS. 



A, Albatross ; B, Baur ; C, Cuming ; D, Darwin ; H, Habel ; K, Kellett ; P, Peterel ; 

 W, Wolf; collectors or authorities. 



Groups of the Islands. 



Names of the forms. 



Bulimulus mix 



Bulimulus achatellinus.. 



Bulimulus 

 Bulimulus 

 Bulimulus 



Bulimulus 

 Bulimulus 

 Bulimulus 

 Bulimulus 

 Bulimulus 

 Bulimulus 



Dar wiiii... 

 Wolfi 



duncanus . 



rugulosus.... 

 var. iiudus . 

 plauospira.. 



ustulatus.... 



calvus 



nucula 



Southeastern. 



Chatham. 



KABW 

 KWB 



DEC 



Bulimulus eschariferus. ... D K W A B 

 Bulimulus var. ventrosus.. 

 Bulimulus var. pileatus.... A 



Bulimulus galapaganus.... 

 Bulimulus perspectives 



Charles. 



Bulimulus jacobi 



Bulimulus var. cinereus. 

 Bulimulus var. acutus.... 



Bulimulus olia 



Bulimulus Tanneri 



Bulimulus amastroides.. 

 Bulimulus var. curtus .. 



Bulimulus unifaseiatus.. 



* 



Bulimulus Simrothi 



Bulimulus Bauri 



Bulimulus caualiferus. 



Bulimulus sculpturatus. 



Bulimulus nesioticus 



Bulimulus rugiferus 



Bulimulus Keibisehi 



W 



BW 



W 



A 



W AB 



KB 



B 

 W 



Bulimulus chemnitzioides. K H W A B 



Bulimulus Habeli j H W A B 



Bulimulus n. sp 



Trochomorpha ? Bauri 



Vitrea chatbamensis 



Conulus galapagauus 



Pupa Woltii 



Pupa clausa 



Succinea Bettii 



Succinea brevior 



Succinea producta 



Succinea corbis 



Leptinaria chatbamensis.. 



Leptinaria sp 



Helicina nesiotica 



Auricula stagnahs 



Melampus trilineatus 



Tralia panameusis 



Pedipes angulatus 



Siphonaria gigas 



Williamia peltoides 



Onchidium Lesliei 



Onchidella Steindachneri. . 



Number of forms, 54. 



D? 

 B 

 B 



W 



WB 



WB 



CPW A 



D A W B 

 W 

 B 

 C 

 CW A 

 W 



P 

 B 

 C 



Hood. 



C P 



25 



P A 

 P B 



A 



H 



A 



AH 



WB 



B B 



A 



Central. 



Indf. 



W 



Dun. 



B A 



Alb. 



BW 



WB 



W 



w 



Jas. 



Bindl. 



C 

 WAB 



C 



w 



N.E. 



H 



WB 

 B 



B 

 B 

 W 

 W 



1188 




406 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



of a person sufficiently expert to recognize the species when col- 

 lected, and to collect with judgment in all the zones. Dead speci- 

 mens are so easily carried down hill by wind or temporary rills of 

 Avater in the rainy season, or transported and dropped by birds in 

 places which they did not originally inhabit, that no weight can be 

 given to the place of their occurrence in such a discussion as this. 

 In regard to some of the species, no information is available; some 

 of the others have been collected in a dead condition from the dry 

 zone below 800 feet, which are known to live in the wooded zone 

 above, hence these may be eliminated from the local population of 

 the dry zone. Making such eliminations, the known population of 

 the dry, the wooded and the grassy upper plateau regions, respec- 

 tively, are as follows : 



DRY ZONE. 



Bulimulus Wolfi. 

 B. rugulosus. 

 B. planospira. 

 B. ustulatus. 

 B. calms. 



B. eschariferus and var. ventrosus. 

 B. galapaganns. 

 B. perspeetirti*. 

 Pupa clausa. 

 P. munita. 



Bulimulus nux 

 and varieties. 

 B. achatelliniis. 

 B. jacobi. 

 B. acutus. 

 B. nucula. 



WOODED ZONE. 



B. curtus. 



P. iiiilftixclatus. 



B. Bauri. 



B. canalijerus. 



( 'onulua rjnlcipaganus. 

 Succinea Bettii. 

 S. brt vior. 



S. producta. 



B. chemnitzioides. Lejitinaria chathamensis. 



B. Habeli. 



Helicina nesiotica. 



B. amastroides. Vitrea chathamensis. 



Bulimulus olla. 



GRASSY ZONE. 



B. Simrothi. 



It is not at all improbable that some of the species of the wooded 

 zone extend downward into the dry or partially dry zone, and that 

 the singular variations observed in some of the species may be due 

 to the direct action of the differing conditions in which they, respec- 

 tively, exist. Making allowance for this, the chief distinction which 

 presents itself between the species of the dry zone and those of the 

 wooded zone, is that the Bulimuli of the dry region show a tendency; — 

 1. To a pupiform shape (such as might facilitate their entry into 

 narrow crevices beneath the lava blocks) ; 2. To reddish-brown col- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



oration with rather conspicuous peripheral color bands (forming a 

 combination not unlike the reddish streaked lavas and hence, possi- 

 bly protective) ; and lastly 3. To a rugose, peculiar crenulation or 

 wrinkling of the surface of those species not characteristically 

 smooth. This last character which, for reasons which will presently 

 be shown, is correlated with aridity or alkalinity of environment, 

 may be regarded as having been impressed upon species which first 

 gained a foothold in the arid region and as having persisted to some 

 extent in their descendants when the latter succeeded in reaching 

 the upper and more congenial zones of the islands. It is character- 

 istically developed in the following species: Bulimulus Darwini, 

 nesioticus and Wolfi, Bulimulus sculpturatus, Bulimulus rugiferus, 

 partially in Bulimulus Simrothi, and traces of it are perceptible in 

 some specimens of Bulimulus Bauri. The external appearance is 

 such as to suggest that the shell when soft, had been pecked at with 

 a pointed object, leaving small irregular depressions scattered more 

 or less closely over the surface. It never appears in the nuclear 

 whorls, rarely in the earlier ones following the nucleus, and, when 

 a sufficient number of specimens is examined, some will be found 

 in each species which do not exhibit it. The latter often look very 

 unlike the commoner form of the species, and, by those unacquainted 

 with the relation between them and unsupplied with a sufficiently 

 large series for study, might easily be regarded as specifically dis- 

 tinct. 



The wrinkling or indenting of the surface is distinct from the 

 longitudinal turgid plications, or narrow warty prominences seen in 

 Bulimulus nux var. incrassatus, Bulimulus rugulosus and B. piano- 

 spira; nor is it the same as the granular sculpture found in the two 

 last mentioned species, in some specimens of Bulimulus jacobi and 

 in cinereus, B.Simrothi, rugiferus, and numerous Lower Californian 

 and Peruvian arid region species, such as B. proteus and B. monte- 

 zuma. This sculpture is more ancient in the history of the group, 

 its elements may often be detected on the nuclear whorls and their 

 subsequent development on later turns is often correlated with the 

 presence of epidermal cirrhi or hairs, sometimes numerous enough 

 to form veritable fringes. Something of this is visible in a perfectly 

 preserved young B. Simrot hi ; in the full grown shell the delicate 

 hairs have fallen or been lost through abrasion. Nevertheless, the 

 extra development of this and the above mentioned plicate sculpture 

 are generally associated in arid regions with the dryness, and in moist 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



regions with the presence of some alkaline salt, which accentuates the 

 action of those factors in the organism which are concerned in the 

 formation of the minor irregularities of the shell surface. The man- 

 ner in which this is brought about is one of the prettiest illustrations 

 of the direct action of the environment which I know, and seems to 

 be sufficiently established by both geological and physiological evi- 

 dence. 



In the arid region of the far west, especially in the desiccated lake 

 basins of Utah, Nevada and California, it has long been observed by 

 the writer, Dr. R. E. C. Stearns and others, that in the successive 

 beds of fresh water marl, which the now dried up lakes deposited in 

 Pliocene and Pleistocene times, the shells indicate a progressive 

 change in surface characters as the alkalinity of the water increased, 

 until at last the amount of alkali became so great that the mollusks 

 were exterminated or found a precarious refuge in the fresh water 

 streams which fell into the basins in question. The shells, without 

 regard to genus or systematic relations, showed a unanimous ten- 

 dency to become ridged, plicated or rugose ; the regularity of the 

 gastropod coil was interfered with, abnormalities became more com- 

 mon, and, toward the last, almost general. Projecting sculpture, 

 spiral threading, carina?, riblets, etc., were exaggerated ; size gener- 

 ally diminished, the height of the spire relatively to the diameter 

 became less, and general degeneration curiously combined with ex- 

 treme accentuation and irregularity of surface characters. Some- 

 thing of the same sort is visible at the present time in the shells of 

 fresh water gastropods in the irrigating ditches of farms in the 

 alkaline arid region ; those shells, in the ditches where the water 

 has leached out alkaline matter from the soil, showing evidences of 

 change in the same direction in surface sculpture, as I have person- 

 ally observed in the Honey Lake Valley, Nevada. 



In Whitfield's observations on the degeneration of Limncea mega- 

 soma — kept for many generations in an aquarium where the water 

 lost by evaporation was constantly replenished, the old residual sup- 

 ply not being emptied, so that a concentration of the salts contained 

 in the much greater bulk of the original water took place in the 

 aquarium — somewhat analogous but less marked changes are re- 

 corded. 



The dynamical origin of these changes may be explained by con- 

 sidering the origin of the surface characters of the shell. The de- 

 position of the shell substance and epidermis takes place from the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



surface and the edge of the mantle. The process is not absolutely 

 continuous, but is carried on at more or less frequent intervals when 

 the animal is in a state of rest. At times when deposition is going 

 on, the margin of the mantle is in a more extended state than usual, 

 reaching to a point where the extremely thin and delicate mem- 

 brane is in contact with the extremest margin of the already formed 

 shell. The glandular epithelium of the edge of the mantle secretes 

 less lime than that of the surface behind it, and is chiefly responsi- 

 ble for the periostracum of the shell, while tbe rest of the mantle 

 has the task of secreting the more limy matter which makes up the 

 bulk of the calcified shell. As the margin expands or contracts 

 over the still viscous secretion, the ornamentation of the mantle 

 edge, cilia, papillae, fringes, etc., everything which by its form or 

 bulk varies the flatness of the filmy membrane itself, mechanically 

 influences the form of the surface over which it passes, as the teeth 

 of a rake leave shallow furrows over the gravel of a garden walk. 

 Essentially in this way are the spiral striae, the revolving threads 

 and similar ornamentation developed on the surface of a fresh water 

 gastropod. The transverse sculpture, usually known as incremental 

 lines, arises from the periodicity of secretion, while ribbing or spin- 

 ose ornamentation originates in a periodic turgidity of the mantle 

 (how induced normally is not known) which rhythmically affects 

 that organ, and by its tidal rise and subsidence causes the shell 

 secreted during such epochs to be more inflated or capacious than 

 at the corresponding intervals. These features and modes of growth 

 can be observed in an aquarium with the more common fresh water 

 gastropods. 



It is a matter of common observation that alkaline salts, dust and 

 dryness are very inimical to land and fresh w y ater mollusks. Salts of 

 chlorine and lime or soda will destroy slugs or snails subjected to 

 their influence ; the creature exudes a copious protective mucus up 

 to a point when exhaustion results and death soon follows. The tis- 

 sues under the action of such agents contract violently, shrivel, and 

 finally die. Against hot pure dry air and dust the slug protects 

 himself by burrowing and secreting a protective coccoon of limy 

 mucus, which dries to a leathery substance preventing further evap- 

 oration. The shell-bearing snail retreats into its house and closes 

 the door with a succession of almost air-tight epiphragms of which 

 the outer one, is often applied to a stone, a bit of bark, or the sur- 

 face of a tree or shrub, either on the branches or leaves. The com- 



27 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



atose condition which follows is only broken up by the presence of 

 moisture in the air, which the prisoner perceives and takes advant- 

 age of to return to active life. The state of torpor may occasionally 

 last for years, but is general among land shells during the dry sea- 

 son in the tropics and during the winter of the colder zones. Most 

 of the collections made at the Galapagos seem to have been made in 

 the dry season. This was the case with Darwin's work and all the 

 Bulimuli collected in a living state by Dr. Baur retain the whole or 

 portions of the epiphragm, showing that they were in retirement 

 when taken from the trees. If the creature, by an early diminution 

 of humidity, is forced into its state of hibernation before its normal 

 period of growth is absolutely completed, it frequently happens that 

 the portion of the shell about the aperture is irregular and bears 

 indications of having been secreted under abnormal conditions. The 

 incremental rugse in the vicinity of the margin will be exaggerated 

 or crowded, the color of this part of the shell absent or different 

 from the rest, the pillar irregularly tuberculose or keeled at the 

 base ; abnormal thickenings or tubercles may appear on the outer 

 lip or on the parietal portion of the aperture, and the margin of the 

 lip will take on an irregular form, presumably to adapt itself to the 

 irregularities of the surface to which the creature is about to attach 

 itself for hibernation. Reeve's figure of Bulimulus Darwini shows 

 a state of affairs such as I have described, so does the form figured 

 under the name of B. Simrothi by Reibisch, and similar indications 

 are afforded by specimens of B. mix, B. rugulosus,JB. torturjamis and 

 />'. Bauri. An understanding of these facts is necessary in order to 

 avoid the use of these temporary and individual dynamic mutations 

 as specific characters, an error several authors have not succeeded 

 in escaping. 



To return to the modification of the surface of the shell by local 

 conditions, the facts above cited enable us to understand how under 

 normally favorable conditions the orgauism deposits the mucus mat- 

 ter, which, by a process analogous to the crystallization of salts in a 

 colloid medium, hardens into the shell substance, which then forms 

 a, compound of crystallized lime (aragouite) and conchioline (not 

 chitine as stated by Osborn 4 and others). 



Now if we assume the attenuated film of secretive tissue constitu- 

 ted by the margin of the mantle expanded, in order to divest itself 



'Studies from the Biol. Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University. II, p. 431, 

 1883. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



by the usual process, of the products of secretion, to be suddenly- 

 brought in contact with alkaline salts either as dust or in solution 

 in the moisture about the animal, the result will be a sudden con- 

 traction of the portion of the mantle affected, consequently the 

 mucus deposit either will not be laid down evenly on the margin of 

 the shell or its deposition may be for the moment retarded. In 

 either case an irregularity will result. The mantle, turgescent with 

 secretion, cannot indefinitely retain the secreted fluids, and, after a 

 time, even if the alkaline irritant is still active, the mucus must be 

 exuded. But if this is done by a film of tissue, more or less irregu- 

 larly contracted, the deposition will be correspondingly irregular in 

 its location. As the epidermis is first laid down, and the more cal- 

 careous matter subsequently upon its elastic surface, it follows that 

 an irregular surface of the epidermis will be reinforced by shelly 

 matter and, as it were, petrified in its irregularity, which will be 

 exhibited permanently in the external surface of the shell. If a 

 minute process of the mantle edge would normally produce a spiral 

 thread on the surface of the shell, and its regular deposition is inter- 

 rupted by the alkalinity of dust, air or moisture about it, the tissue 

 will be obliged to contract after a short period of expansion, and the 

 spiral thread will consequently appear broken up into a series of 

 granules. The more violent the induced contraction the greater will 

 be the amount of undeposited mucus contained in the respective 

 glandular cells, and which must be got rid of at the next period of 

 expansion, and, consequently, the coarser will be the granules formed 

 by its exudation at the next opportunity. The coil of the shell is 

 determined partly by that portion already existing, against which 

 the new deposit must be laid down, and partly by the form and mass 

 of the body of the animal within the shell. The direction of the 

 coil is a resultant of the reactions between these two factors, guided 

 to a limited extent by gravity which pulls the shell, pendant from 

 the extruded animal to one side or the other, while the animal is 

 active. Yet as the deposition of shelly matter takes place chiefly, 

 if not entirely, when the animal is contracted and at rest, mostly 

 within the shell, it cannot be expected that the action of gravity 

 should have much influence on the form of the shell. But, if the 

 growth of the soft parts be accelerated so that they increase in length 

 of coil disproportionately to the growth of the shell, the direction of 

 the coil is correspondingly less dependent on the form of the existing 

 whorls and more dependent on the posture assumed by the extruded 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



soft parts, so that if the suggested growth be sudden, as if forming 

 a climax during which maturity is rapidly assumed (a state of things 

 readily induced by changes in the reproductive organs and the ripen- 

 ing of their contents), a sudden change in the direction and form 

 of the whorl may be induced dynamically. This is what I believe 

 takes place in such forms as Holospira, Cylindrella and various 

 Cyclostomaticlce. If we picture the animal on a twig, holding on by 

 the foot and partially retracted, the spire heavy with contained ova 

 and the animal at rest, pending secretion of shell matter, it is easy 

 to imagine the manner in which the mature aperture may be built 

 up on the margin of a perpendicularly pendant immature shell, 

 without following the cycloidal curve of the earlier whorls. 



The influence of a very dry warm atmosphere on the expanded 

 mantle will be analogous to that of alkaline matter, but likely to 

 act with less irregularity. A particle of alkaline dust might affect 

 a small part of the margin of the mantle and not the rest, while the 

 air might be expected to act on the whole expanded margin. It is 

 probable even then, however, that some portions of the edge might 

 dry quicker than others and more or less irregularity would almost 

 certainly result. Of course, if the margin of the mantle were to be- 

 come actually desiccated, secretion would cease and could not go on 

 again until the dry tissue had been cast off and replaced. But it is 

 probable that the tissue is too sensitive for such an event to occur 

 under ordinary conditions. It would probably operate bo that when 

 the animal felt the mantle becoming uncomfortably dry, it would 

 simply retract, and temporarily cease secretion as in the presence of 

 alkali. But enough has been said to indicate the mode by which 

 drought and alkaline matter may act upon the growing mollusk and 

 directly modify its secretions, and, by consequence, its hard parts. 

 That this action takes place substantially as suggested I have little 

 doubt, and that its results may be differentiated from those of nor- 

 mal growth in continuously favorable conditions, I think will be 

 shown to be probable. 



Let us consider the features presented by BidimtUua Simrvtki and 

 see how far they exemplify the processes above described. The de- 

 position of ova may take place with the opening of the wet season. 

 No data are available, but none of the specimens collected in the 

 hibernating state by Dr. Baur, and of which the soft parts were ex- 

 amined, contained any developed ova. It would be in accordance 

 with what we know of species in other regions if the ova were rapidly 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



developed and deposited in the early part of the wet season. The 

 nuclear portion of the shell presents the features so characteristic of 

 many continental Bulimuli in that the first whorl is angulated above 

 and the vertex is consequently concave or even funicular. The sur- 

 face of the nucleus is evenly, closely, transversely ribbed, with fine 

 spiral stripe perceptible between the ribs upon magnification. The 

 sculpture of the nuclear whorl merges gradually into that of the 

 succeeding whorls, the ribbing becoming finer until it is lost in the 

 incremental sculpture. The spiral stria? become stronger and prac- 

 tically cover the whole shell. Four delicate, fine spiral threads are 

 evenly spaced on the whorls between the periphery and the suture, 

 somewhat broken by the rather regularly spaced incremental eleva- 

 ted lines. Where the two intersect, the epidermis is raised in micro- 

 scopic cilia only visible in finely preserved young specimens. In 

 this condition there are four or five whorls besides the nucleus. 

 They are of a reddish-brown with a pale olive-greenish narrow 

 peripheral band. Up to this point, unless it be that the shell is 

 slightly narrower, the species is indistinguishable from B. unijascia- 

 tus. About this time, earlier in some later in others, the peculiar 

 indented irregularities of the surface begin to appear ; at first exag- 

 gerated slightly irregular incremental lines, then irregular broken 

 surface markings recalling rusted metal which has been cleaned but 

 preserves the maculse of oxidation. Finally the aperture shows a 

 slightly reflected lip, a pillar thickened, keeled at the base, tubercu- 

 lar with a single tubercle set anywhere along its length ; the outer 

 lip with one or two adjacent tubercles, the umbilicus from large and 

 ample to very contracted, almost closed. 



The peripheral band persists in some cases; the warty prominen- 

 ces are whiter than the shell normally would be, having a bleached 

 aspect. I should read the developmental history of this species gen- 

 erally as follows : The species sprang from a form not unlike B. 

 Xantusii of Lower California, the superficially more similar Peru- 

 vian B. rhodaeme and pruinosus having a different nucleus. The 

 ova hatchiug in the height of the rainy season grew normally, and, 

 if the rainy season had been long enough, would have developed into 

 shells with the color and sculpture of B. unifasciatus and the form 

 of a small slender B. jacobi. Some of the specimens almost attain 

 this ideal. Toward the end of the season either occasional hot spells 

 or the influence of salts leached out of the decomposed lava soil by 

 the rains began to effect the growing shells, some more and some less, 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



and continued to do so until they completed their shells, or were 

 forced, immature, to go into hibernation. Completing their shells 

 under pressure and affected by the environment the thickening of 

 the aperture was more or less irregularly deposited, and the excess 

 of shell matter appears in the form of tubercles or lumps of callus 

 disposed about the aperture. As might be expected, so far as we 

 know the situs of the various species, these peculiar deformations 

 occur chiefly among the species of the dry zone below or the grassy 

 zone above, the conditions of the intermediate wooded zone are 

 probably more uniform, or, perhaps, species living on the ground or 

 on low herbage are more likely to be affected by alkaline efflores- 

 cences than those which live at a greater height on trees and shrubs. 



If these views are correct, we should expect to find analogous 

 effects produced on similar mollusks in similar situations throughout 

 the world. They should be produced without reference to the line of 

 descent of the species, that is, species of the European Buliminus or 

 the African Achat ina should in analogous situations exhibit practi- 

 cally the same sort of deformation as has just been described in spe- 

 cies of Biclimulus isolated on the Galapagos. Is this the case? 

 Analogous situations are not very numerous. Wanted, an island 

 habitat with volcanic rocks, a climate combining periodical dryness 

 with occasional wet mists and a regular rainy season. In the 

 Hawaiian Islands we have something of the sort, but, owing to their 

 larger size, there is a much more continuous flow of water in stream.-. 

 the climate is not so hot and the parallel is far from exact, The 

 island of Fernando de Noronha has been said to have a remarkable 

 resemblance to the Galapagos, and so did St. Helena before it was 

 deforested. A glance at the fauna will lie of interest. 



The island of Fernando de Noronha like the Galapagos is volcanic, 

 with a soil formed by decomposition of the basalt, and is well sup- 

 plied with vegetation and water. Smith says of the mollusk fauna 5 

 "Of the land shells two are well known West Indian species, one 

 has been recorded from Brazil, Peru and the island of Opara, and 

 the remaining four, up to the present, appear to be peculiar to the 

 island. One of these, however, Bulimus Ramagei surest* a faunis- 

 tic similarity to Brazil, as the section of Bulimus to which it belongs 

 (Tomigerus) with one exception occurs only in that country." 



The species are as follows according to Smith : 



1. Helix (Polygyratia) quinquelirata Smith. 



5 Journ. Linn. Soc. Zool., Vol. XX, p. 484. 18! 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



2. B. (Tomigerus f) Ramagei Smith. 



3. B. (Bulimulus) Ridleyi Smith. 



4. Pupa solitaria Smith. 



5. Stenogyra ( Opeas) octonoides C. B. Ads. 



6. S. (Opeas) subula Pfr. 



7. S. ( Opeas) Beckiana Pfr. var. 



This fauna is of South American type. While there are some 

 Australasian forms which recall Polygyratia in their shell charac- 

 ters, their anatomy is still unknown. The nearest relatives of this 

 species appear to be the continental H. pollodonta Orbigny, and such 

 forms as H. endodonta of Ecuador. It is curious that the Helices 

 of oceanic islands so frequently belong to groups which have the 

 throat of the shell armed with spiral lamella?, and the fact will be 

 considered later in connection with the St. Helena fauna. None has 

 yet been described from the Galapagos, yet one cannot help wonder- 

 ing if the Helix not specifically named, found by Darwin, and sup- 

 posed by Cuming and himself to be identical with a Tahitian spe- 

 cies, might not have been of this type. It is obvious that the 

 Noronha fauna is too small to admit of basing much upon its char- 

 acters, but small as it is, they are quite suggestive. The second 

 species is referred with some doubt to Tomigerus by Smith. It 

 seems to the writer that the doubt is well founded, and that the 

 curious species in question is hardly more different from B. Ridleyi 

 than B. Darivini is from B.jacobi or Simrothi. 



Bulimulus Ridleyi is fuscous with a pale peripheral line. The 

 incremental lines are cut by slender spiral stria? and the shell is umbili 

 cated. The aperture recalls that of B. Simrothi and in some respects 

 that of the fossil Bulimuli of the Oligocene silex beds of Tampa, 

 Florida. It is found on trees and under stones rather widely dis- 

 tributed on the island. According to Smith " It resembles some- 

 what in form certain species of Partula; it faintly recalls, chiefly on 

 account of color, Bulimulus jacobi from the Galapagos Islands." It 

 will be observed that all the forms with which it is compared are of 

 insular habitat, Florida in Oligocene times having been an island, 

 while in the Oligocene beds of the continent, of the same horizon as 

 the silex beds, no Bulimuli have been found. 



Pupa solitaria Smith, is so similar to the variable P. Wolfii Mil- 

 ler of Guayaquil (P. munita and P. clausa Reibisch of the Galapa- 

 gos) that, bearing in mind the wide dispersion of these minute spe- 

 cies, I strongly suspect a sufficient number of specimens would 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



demonstrate their identity. The species of Stenogyra are obviously 

 West Indian or continental and call for no special remark. 



The land shells of St. Helena have been described by Smith (P. 

 Z. S., 1892, pp. 258-270), from collections by Captain W. H. Tur- 

 ton R. E. The National Museum is indebted to Captain Turton for 

 a nearly complete series of his St. Helena shells, including one 

 or two species accidentally introduced since the settlement of the 

 island. These have proved of great value for comparison, as the 

 best figures fail to give the peculiarities of surface texture with 

 which, in this discussion, we are largely concerned. Omitting syn- 

 onyms, mere varieties and recently introduced species, the land shell 

 fauna of St. Helena comprises four species of helicoid shells without 

 lamellae, which have been referred to Patula but which may prove 

 to be edentulous species of Endodonta, ten' species of Endodonta 

 (section Helenoconcha Filsbry) with more or less complicated oral 

 lamellae ; Aehatina (Pachyotus) auris-vulpina Dillw., and two or 

 three related species ; Achatina (Cleostyla) exulata and subtruncata ; 

 Bulimulus (Pachnodus) Helena and two related species ; a Tomigerus- 

 like shell, Pupa (Campolcemus) perexilis (Smith; Pilsbry, and two 

 minute species of Pupa; and, lastly, three species of Succinea, in all 

 twenty-nine species. Of these, by the gradual desiccation of the 

 island, twenty-two are become extinct. 



The native forms found living comprise two species of Endo- 

 donta, Pachyotu* melanoides and /'. Turtoni, and three species of 

 Succinea. The mollusk fauna as a whole, is Oceanic, and shows no 

 strong affinity with either America or West Africa, especially the 

 former. The manner in which these mollusks reached the island is 

 a mystery, the more so as it is said that the flora and insect fauna 

 also show no special relationship with those of South America. 

 Nevertheless, the contours of the sea bottom as well as certain feat- 

 ures of the fauna indicate a previous more intimate relation between 

 South America and Africa than has recently existed, and, whatever 

 this bond may have been, it is not improbable that St. Helena par- 

 ticipated in it. Any ordinary means of transport would seem to be 

 insufficient to account for the presence of Pachyotus, of which even 

 the eggs are six millimeters long. We are not obliged for present 

 purposes to concern ourselves with this problem of origin. The in- 



8 H. Alexandra Forbes and polyodon Sby., are both represented in Captain 

 Turton 's series and are distinct species; a single specimen of a species appar- 

 ently nndescribed also occurred among those sent to the National Museum. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIEISTCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



timate structure of these animal as related to the conditions in 

 which they live is the object of consideration. 



The Helices are of less importance in this discussion because we 

 do not know what species may be found to inhabit the Galapagos on 

 thorough search. But we may, in passing, note that the species 

 have certain characteristics which are almost exclusively found in 

 members of insular faunas, of which the most remarkable are the 

 parallel spiral lamella? running inward from the aperture. They 

 are obviously protective and their presence would suggest a peculiar 

 enemy, entering the aperture to devour the inhabitant of the shell, 

 as prevalent in island faunas. 



If we examine PfeifFer's list of species belonging to the section of 

 Patula called Endodonta, to which these Helices were referred by 

 him, we shall find that of those with basal lamellse all are insular 

 species, the largest body of land to which any species is referred be- 

 ing Tasmania. Of the eighteen forms with parietal lamella? all are 

 insular on tropical islands from New Caledonia to Hawaii. Of 

 those with both parietal and basal lamella?, omitting those described 

 from St. Helena, the entire thirty-three species are insular and from 

 mountainous tropical islands, most of which are known to be vol- 

 canic. 



Of the other land shells the singular Pupa or Tomigerus perexilis 

 appears to be a local development, but there are two ordinary 

 Pupas one of which is very similar in its general features and type 

 of lamellation to the Noronha and Galapagos species, a likeness 

 already noted by Smith. The Succineas again, over and above the 

 general similarity of the species everywhere, exhibit certain pecu- 

 liarities which appear to be associated with an insular habitat. The 

 Succinea brevior of the Galapagos can hardly be discriminated from 

 S. helence from St. Helena. S. Bettii is parallel with S. picta, and 

 S. Wolfi with Bensoniana. In endeavoring to find, in our large 

 collection of domestic and foreign Succineas, some species with 

 sculptured surface to compare with .S'. corbis, the only forms of the 

 kind which the National Museum afforded were insular, from Samoa, 

 Martinique, St. Helena, etc. Doubtless the peculiar vermicular or 

 dichotomous impressed lines which these species show are due to 

 causes similar to those already described which modify the surface 

 sculpture in Bulimulus. Not all them show it, but those which do 

 show it are, so far as I have yet observed, either insular or subjected 

 to locally arid conditions. Those species in which this sort of sculpt- 

 ure has become habitual are all insular and tropical. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



There remain only the Bulimoid forms ; these being mostly fossil 

 have received little attention in the usual works of reference. The 

 well known Bulimus auris-vulpina of Dillwyn (sp.) was erected into 

 a genus by Beck as early as 1837 under the name of Pachyotus. 1 

 With it Beck associated a number of species of the type of Bulimus 

 bilabiatus and melanostomus, which arrangement was followed by 

 Pfeiffer and most subsequent writers. There are distinct points of 

 resemblance, but these are probably dynamic rather than ontogen- 

 etic. To the writer the relations of Pachyotus are directly with a 

 certain number of its associates of St. Helena. 



The Bulimiform Helicacea of St. Helena may be divided into two- 

 groups 8 : — one (Achatinoid) typified by the Pachyotus auris-vulpina 

 and characterized by a closed or nearly closed umbilicus and a cork 

 screw twisted axis, the other (Bulimuloid) by a straight axis and 

 more or less open umbilicus. The last group comprises Bulimuluz 

 Blofieldi and Seleanus of Forbes and B. helena Quoy and Gaimard. 

 The Pachyotus group 9 comprises all the other species of the island. 



7 The type was selected from among Beck's species by Gray in 1847. In 

 1848 Fischer de Waldheim named it Chilonopsis. 



8 According to Mr. H. A. Pilsbry, whose opinion on the subject is entitled 

 to the greatest weight, the two principal groups are probably referable to the 

 Achatinidce {Pachyotus and Cleoslyla) and the Bulimulidce ( Pachnodus). The 

 former would be nearest to Perideris, and the latter to Pachneau a- typified 

 by P. velutinus. As the so-called Tomigerus of St. Helena is probably a mod- 

 ified Pupa {Campolamus PLbbry) analogous to Boysidia and Hypselostoma,\l 

 would seem that the affinities of the St. Helena fauna are West African, Ori- 

 ental or Oceanic, rather than South American, in spite of the presence in 

 South America of the Achatinoid " Z?." coronatus and " B." Hanleyi Ffr. 



9 The teeth of the radula of P. melanioides are in nearly straight transverse 

 rows, and the rhachidian teeth are narrow, with a single small cusp, as in 

 typical Ackatinidce. The laterals are bicuspid. On the marginal teeth the outer 

 cusp splits, forming two or three denticles on the inner, four or more on the 

 uter teeth. The formula is 14.12.1.12.14. The arcuate jaw distorted in my 

 preparation) is very closely and finely striated, as in Limia 



-[ 7 */U"* /| ^ 



Teeth of Pachyotus melanioides. Jaw of P. melanioides. 



The main character of the dentition different from other genera of Acha- 

 tinida is the multiple splitting of the outer cusp on the marginals, as in Cu m 

 ella, Papidtr, Vallonia, etc. — H. A. P. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



Those who are not accustomed to recognize the flexibility of organ- 

 isms nor to discriminate ancestral from dynamic characters will, 

 perhaps, be astonished at any arrangement which includes in one 

 group species apparently so dissimilar as auris-ridpina and melani- 

 oides, but I think a little unprejudiced study of the specimens, in 

 connection with B. subplicatus, will convince any one of the likeli- 

 hood of their genetic relationship. 



To treat the simplest and smallest group first, we may take the B. 

 helena and its allies. This species was placed in the section Ncesio- 

 tus by Pfeiffer in 1856 (Mai. Blatt.,II, p. 161); and it is quite similar 

 in several respects to some of the Galapagos species, but is probably 

 derived from another shoot of the genus Bulimulus. The nucleus 

 in this species, in B. Blofieldi and Seleanus, is swollen and almost 

 smooth. It has no axial dimple and the surface seems not to have 

 had any coarse sculpture. The species show the microscopic irreg- 

 ularity of the incremental lines, the undue thickening of the shell 

 and the broken lines of spirally disposed granulations which indicate 

 the influence of an arid or alkaline habitat. Full grown specimens 

 generally show the irregularities of the aperture characteristic of 

 individuals which have been forced into long continued hibernation 

 before the mantle had discharged all its surplus calcareous salts, or 

 had, by reason of long continued aridity, to caulk the vicinity of the 

 aperture with shelly matter in order not to be absolutely desiccated 

 by evaporation. These characters are precisely those we find im- 

 posed upon the Galapagos, Lower California and other arid region 

 species. 



The Achatinoid group though possessing many dynamic charac- 

 ters in common is probably derived from two sources. B. exulatus 

 Benson and B. mbtruncatus Smith have an imperforated twisted 

 axis, a plump small nucleus followed by a few small and then sev- 

 eral rapidly enlarging whorls, a flaring aperture angulated below 

 and with a keel or angle on the edge of the pillar. They show less 

 than any of the others the effects of aridity and have rather thin 

 shells. They originally had translucent or brownish shells with a 

 pale tracery of opaque white or yellowish. The aperture is regular 

 and there is but little callous deposit. For this section the name 

 Cleostyla may be used. Its resemblance to Pseudachatina seems to 

 be slight and superficial. 



The second group, Pachyotus of Beck, with C. auris-virfpina as 

 type, comprises also B. melanioides, B. subplicatus and probably B. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Turtoni, though the latter is less certain and may possibly belong to 

 a third section. The typical Pachyotus has a dimpled nucleus, 

 though it is not keeled like that of Ncesiotus and the Lower Califor- 

 nian and Peruvian Bulimuli. In its sculpture the transverse pre- 

 dominates over the spiral. The surface of the shell is everywhere 

 transversely wrinkled and toward the suture is more or less gathered 

 into short rounded plaits, stronger in the younger whorls. The 

 colors are dark, more or less translucent tesselated with paler opaque 

 markings or streaks. The axis is minutely tubular and twisted, 

 especially as the last whorl is being finished off, where at maturity 

 a plait is more or less distinctly developed. 



The aperture has a simple, somewhat expanded, more or less thick- 

 ened edge, which, in old specimens which have hibernated, may 

 show heavy deposits of callus, which is always angulated or obscurely 

 channelled at the base of the pillar. Specimens which have sur- 

 vived hibernation have the usual irregularities about the margin. 

 A careful inspection reveals no reasons for supposing that P. auris- 

 vulpina might not have been the descendent of a form like P. 

 melanioides. I have seen no completely adult specimens of the lat- 

 ter or of B. Turtoni, but see no reason to suppose that the lip would 

 not, under suitable conditions, be thickened in them as it is in 

 P. subplicatus. Perhaps at present J', melanioides inhabits a region 

 where it does not now suffer from aridity, which would account for 

 the difference in the deposit about the mouth. It is well known 

 that great fluctuations have taken place in the rainfall on the island 

 due to variations in the woods and forests, their destruction and 

 partial restoration. However this may be, the living species of the 

 group have but little callous deposit about the mouth ; P. subplicatus 

 which evidently from the freshness of its colors, cannot have been 

 long extinct, has a greater amount, and P. auris-vulpina in addition 

 to the marginal thickening .-hows a parietal tubercle of callus often 

 of large size, and the irregularities of form, size, and margin of the 

 aperture are such as to indicate clearly degeneration leading to ex- 

 tinction by increasing aridity of its habitat. 



Curiously enough, according to Mr. Smith, only one Helix, an 

 introduction from other regions, has been found iu Ascension Island ; 

 the other known terrestrial mollusk is IAmax ascensionis Quoy, 

 which may well be an introduction also. The explanation of this 

 difference between St. Helena and Ascension lies in the greater 

 aridity of the latter. Though thorough search might reveal some 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



extinct species, it is highly probable that this island was never 

 wooded and has always been much dryer than St. Helena. 



It would carry us too far afield to undertake a discussion of the 

 characteristics of the terrestrial mollusk fauna of those Pacific 

 islands which by their elevated and volcanic character and geo- 

 graphic situation might be comparable with those we have already 

 reviewed. A comparison of other highland subtropical faunas where 

 the situation is complicated by seasonal or general aridity, will 

 throw much light on the principles involved. I have elsewhere 

 examined the Lower Californian Bulimuli (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1893) a group which, like that of the highlands of Peru and Chili, 

 offers an excellent field for study. But the absence of detailed knowl- 

 edge of the situs affected by the several species is a great drawback 

 to safe generalization. A species which spends its existence bur- 

 rowing in the succulent fronds of cactuses can hardly be said to be 

 subject to arid conditions, even if the cactus stands in a desert, and 

 similar doubts and difficulties are encountered at every turn, when 

 one would investigate a general question of this kind. On isolated 

 islands like the Galapagos and St. Helena, the conditions are com- 

 paratively simple, but on the continents it is different, and there the 

 complexity of conditions is too great to allow us with safety to take 

 much for granted. 



Fischer has pointed out that existing faunas are most nearly 

 related to the antecedent tertiary faunas of the same region (Man. 

 Conch., p. 118), the writer has shown that this is true for the Amer- 

 ican and Antillean regions, and others have recognized the same 

 truth in other parts of the world. In pursuance of the same idea, 

 the writer believes that, in the majority of cases, a circumscribed 

 local fauna of land shells will be found in the main to be most 

 nearly related to geographically adjacent groups from which it has 

 probably been derived ; that the conditions of the environment are 

 capable of inducing directly and without the aid of natural or any 

 other kind of selection, certain changes in the form and surface 

 characters which, on the present basis of classification, are generally 

 taken as of systematic value ; that these characteristics may be so 

 loosely worn as to disappear in the individual or in the whole group 

 if the pressure of the environment inducing them be altered or re- 

 moved ; that in time, and especially if the characters be of useful 

 nature, they may become fixed by hereditary, transmission or natural 

 selection, or both combined ; that similar factors in the environ- 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ment if not too intimately complicated with others, will produce in 

 organisms of the same general nature similar results wherever situa- 

 ted ; and, lastly, that the resultiug features strikingly similar 

 though they may be, are, conversely, no evidence of ontogenetic 

 relationship. In any census undertaken with a view to determin- 

 ing systematic relationship, such characters must be eliminated in 

 order to avoid an erroneous conclusion. 



It is only by close and minute study of the details of the situs of 

 species and of their minor, though by no means unimportant, char- 

 acters of form and surface, that we shall be able to recognize those 

 features which may be classed as dynamic as opposed to those which 

 even if dynamic also in their ultimate origin, have become geneti- 

 cally constant. The noxious and stupefying multiplication of spe- 

 cific names, which has been characteristic of a certain school of 

 workers during the last twenty years, could never have gained scien- 

 tific recognition had there been any general appreciation of the 

 extent to which dynamic modifications affect all organisms. It is 

 much easier to describe and name a character than it is to search 

 out its reason for existence. It is even easier, with proper appara- 

 tus, to count the cells in an organism of moderate size than it is to 

 recognize and discriminate the influence of the environment upon 

 the organic total of those cells. By inspecting the fragments of a 

 building one may learn something of construction, but it is only by 

 contemplating it as a whole that the higher elements of architecture 

 can be recognized. 



Recognizing the imperfection and inadequacy of our knowledge, 

 even of the limited groups discussed in this paper, the writer thinks 

 that some glimmerings of light may be had on the subject of 

 dynamic characters from the accompanying study of insular land 

 shells. 



The following summary will express, tentatively, such of the con- 

 clusions as appear justified from the study of the specimens 



A. Given a region of volcanic origin and mouutainous character, 

 with local or seasonal aridity, more or less arboreal vegetation as 

 well as herbage and a tropical or nearly tropical climate, moderate 

 isolation and safety to propagate and increase. 



B. Into this region let land shells of the principal continental 

 types be introduced, and allowed the necessary time to become dis- 

 persed over the region, multiply abundantly and respond to the 

 environment. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



C. What results in the shape of dynamic modifications may be 

 anticipated ? 



Answer. — The first result of room to spread, safety and plenty of 

 food, would be to release the species from the shackles of the en- 

 vironment from which they had been transplanted and to promote 

 general variability. 



(Ex. Wonderful variability of insular shell faunas, such as those 

 of Madeira, Galapagos and St. Helena Islands). 



Secondly, the particular features likely to indicate local dynamic 

 influence under the assumed conditions would be : 



On the surface : wrinkling, corrugation or shagreening. 



(Ex. The great majority of land shells in such situations, as the 

 Helicidce in Madeira, the Bulimuli in the Galapagos, Succinea in 

 many islands, etc.). 



At the suture: plaiting or wrinkling more or less rhythmical. 



(Ex. B. achatellinus Forbes and B. mix Brod. of the Galapagos; 

 many Achatinella; all the Pachyntis, etc.). 



At the vertex: loose coiling or dimpling of the nuclear coil. 



(Ex. Bulimuli of Lower California, Galapagos, Peru, St. Helena, 

 etc.). 



Of the axis : Exhibition of a tendency to irregularity, cork screw 

 twisting, or outward (internal to the tube of the axis, but external 

 to the tube of the shell) grooving in shells of elongated form, result- 

 ing in a tendency to form an angle or keel at the anterior edge of 

 the pillar within the aperture and an obscure channel at its extrem- 



ity. 



(Ex. All the Pachyotis, many of the Ncedoti, Cleostyla, Pleuro- 

 pyrgus, Achatinella, etc.). 



Of the aperture: Thickening of the margin in connection with 

 hibernation, the formation of ill defined tubercles on the lips or par- 

 ies, irregularity of the margin with respect to the plane of incre- 

 ment, and a tendency to contraction at the full grown aperture dur- 

 ing or after hibernation. 



(Ex. Pachyotus, many Ncesioti, some Bulimuli of Lower Califor- 

 nia, etc.). 



Of these characters some are more likely than others to be selected 

 as beneficial to the species, and these relate chiefly to general form 

 and coloration. In the matter of form the particular situs of the 

 species has a preponderating influence, small and slender shells be- 

 ing easier to manage in the narrow fissures under stones frequented 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



by many species ; short and stout forms apparently succeeding bet- 

 ter among dead leaves and the short herbage in stony places, while 

 more elongated medium-sized forms are more in vogue among those 

 which live on trees and high shrubs. It may also be the case that 

 when hibernating, affixed to a branch or leafstalk, a form simulat- 

 ing a bud or spine would to a certain extent be protected from 

 thrushes and other mollusk-eating birds. 



In the matter of color, selection undoubtedly has much influence. 

 Subtranslucent browns and pinkish flesh-color harmonize with dead 

 leaves, and the opaque tracery of yellowish streaks so common on the 

 ground loving species obviously adds to the difficulty of recognizing 

 the snail in such localities. Among the lava rocks sienna browns 

 flecked with white are common and unquestionably protective. On 

 trees everywhere the tendency is to spiral stripes of color, the sur- 

 face is frequently more polished, the color brighter, with a tendency 

 to the development of green among the colors, which is, so far as I 

 know, never found in species living on the ground. In Achatinella 

 these tendencies may be studied with advantage, and they can be 

 recognized in the Ncesioti and other Bulimuli almost everywhere. 

 They are recognizable also among the Helices. In insular faunas 

 the Helices which seem to persist most effectively are small with 

 many whorls, a wrinkled surface, yellowish or olive coloration often 

 with reddish radiating flecks when fresh, or wholly reddish-brown. 

 Many of them have a protective armature of lamelke obstructing 

 the aperture, perhaps against the hard round-bodied millipedes, like 

 Julis, which eat snails and are not uncommon in insular faunas. 



In an insular or isolated fauna, under the conditions we have 

 assumed, we should expect to find under the bulimoid forms (even 

 in a limited number of species derived from a still more restricted 

 number of ancestral types) a globose, a medium and a very attenu- 

 ated type. This is well-illustrated in almost all the fauna.-, as in 

 the Hawaiian Islands (Achatinetlidw), Bulimuli of Lower Califor- 

 nia, Galapagos Islands and St. Helena. Leaving out the more nor- 

 mal or medium type, a few examples may be mentioned : 



Locality. Globose. Very slender. 



Hawaii, A. kauiensis, etc. A. subula, plicata, etc. 



Galapagos, B. Darwin ii, mix, B. Habeli, chemnitzoides. 



St. Helena, B. auris-vulpina, B. melanioides. 



Lower Cala. B. sujjflatua, pilula, B. artemesia. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



There is no reason why such exceptional forms should maintain 

 themselves, unless there is a niche in the environment which they 

 are especially qualified to fill. 



The small Zonitidce, commonly known as Hyalinia, Conulus, etc., 

 are especially fitted by their size and lightness to be transported by 

 winds, adhering to dead leaves or other light objects. They are also 

 well-adapted to maintain themselves under adverse circumstances, 

 excepting against extreme aridity. Consequently it is not surpris- 

 ing that they, and the small Pupidoz of which the same is true, 

 should be found as members of nearly all insular faunas where many 

 other common types are wanting. 



Other small, thin and light shells like Leptinaria, Balea, Subu- 

 lina, etc., are so easily transported that their presence in insular 

 faunas excites no surprise, though the mystery as to how any of 

 these shells reached their present habitat remains as provoking as 

 ever. The distribution of laud shells is full of such mysteries, to- 

 ward the solution of which so little has been done. Thus, the Helix 

 (Tachea) subglobosa of Binney is apparently not distinguishable 

 from the pale unicolorate variety of the H. hortensis of Europe and 

 has been confidently asserted to have been introduced by commerce. 

 It is the only representative of its particular group in America, and 

 is known only from the extreme northeastern border of the United 

 States from Massachusetts to Cape Breton Island, living everywhere 

 close to the sea or even on small islands off the coast. The suspi- 

 cion that this species is an importation is very natural, but never- 

 theless it is found in the clays of the Champlaiu epoch of the coast 

 of Maine and in prehistoric shell-heaps of the same region, so that, 

 if it was imported, Leif Ericsen had a predecessor in the glacial 

 epoch. The banded forms of hortensis, since imported, do well and 

 multiply varieties without difficulty and in profusion. How did it 

 happen, then, that the importer of the subglobosa brought only one 

 of the rarer varieties and planted it along a thousand miles of 

 coast ? And why should it appear living chiefly on rocky islets, 

 never occupied or tilled by mau ? The answer to such questions in- 

 volves matters of the greatest interest and importance in the history 

 of the distribution of life on the globe. Applied to the Galapagos 

 Islands, it is evident that occupation, especially by sheep, will ren- 

 der it impossible forever to get any complete data. May it not be 

 hoped, therefore, that some one will undertake to make a thorough 

 and complete survey of the malacology of these islands before it is 



28 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



too late. The study of the development of specific forms can never 

 be made complete in the Hawaiian Islands, because the sheep and 

 goat have preceded the investigator. There is still a chance to study 

 the problem in the Galapagos Islands, and it should not be lost. 



SUMMARY OF THE LAND SHELL FAUNA OF THE GALAPAGOS 

 ISLANDS. 



Genus BULIMULUS Leach. 

 Section NAESIOTUS Alters. 



Nasiotus Albers, Heliceen, p. 162, 1850. Type B. nux. 



Rhaphiellus Pfr., Versuch einer Anordnung der Heliceen nach natiirlichen 

 Gruppen. Malak. Blatter, II, p. 160, 1855. Type B. achatinellinus, Martens 

 in Albers, Ed. ii, p. 238, 1860 (Sect. Bulimini). 



Omphalostyla H. & A. Adams, Gen. Rec Moll., ii, p. 161, 1855; not of 

 Schleuter, Syst. Verz., p. 7, 1838. 



Nesiotes Martens, in Albers, ed. ii, pp. 220-21, 1860. 



Nesiotus Clessin, in Pfeifler, Norn. Hel. Viv., p. 254, 1881. 



Ataxus sp. Clessin, op. cit., p. 253. 



Pelecostoma Reibisch {exparte) in Isis, Abh. 3, p. 13, 1S92. 



The nomenclature of this section has had serious vicissitudes, as 

 indicated by the above synonymy. 



The group was named Ncesiotus by Albers who gave no derivation 

 for it, though the sound of the word naturally inclined the hearer 

 to suppose that it was suggested by vyotifrn]?, islanders, and on this 

 assumption von Martens proceeded to modify the spelling to Nesiotes, 

 which would be a proper latinization of that Greek word. There is 

 no rule of nomenclature which authorizes any one to supply a gratu- 

 itous derivation for a word published without any ; still less because 

 the original does not agree with the later assumption is any one 

 authorized to modify or destroy a name properly proposed in other 

 respects. Consequently von Marten's substitute cannot be accepted. 10 



In describing his Bulimus achatellinus, Forbes says that it " is 

 unlike any known Bulimus, and its characters distinctly indicate 

 affinity with the Achatinellince." Elsewhere he speaks of it " dis- 

 tantly," indicating " affinity with the fauna of the Sandwich Is- 

 lands." This was not an unnatural conclusion when drawn from a 

 few specimens, but, as is elsewhere shown in this paper, rests upon 

 purely superficial characters. Actually the species is American in 

 its relations, and is very closely related to some varieties of B. nux, 

 from which protean species it may even be an offshoot. Conse- 



10 This seems to be a suitable occasion to protest against the unauthorized 

 meddling with generic names which has lately been fashionable among writers 

 from whom more sensible things would have been expected. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



quently the sectional name proposed for it must fall into the syn- 

 onymy of that given earlier to B. nux and its allies. It is probably 

 due to the great rarity of this species that its situation in accepted 

 systems has not been challenged before this ; certainly if it had been 

 as common as B. nux, the facts could hardly have escaped attention 

 so long. I have not found anywhere any reasons stated for putting 

 the species into Buliminus rather than Bulimulus where it really 

 belongs. 



The name Omjihalostyla was applied by Schliiter to Bulimi with 

 the pillar vertically twisted, and his sole example was the African 

 shell, since better known under the name Achatina ustulata (Lam.) 

 Menke. It was probably to some accidental confusion of the spe- 

 cies with the Bulimus ustulatus Sby. of the Galapagos, that is due 

 the application by the brothers Adams of Schliiter's name to the 

 Nozsioti. 



The type of the section Pelecostoma Reibisch, is a Ncesiotus which 

 shows a ridge at the base of the pillar which gives a peculiar chan- 

 nelled aspect to the adjacent part of the aperture. This feature will 

 be found more or less distinctly present in some specimens of almost 

 any Galapagos species of which a large number is examined, show- 

 ing that it is dynamic or individual, and not of systematic value. 

 The second species of this " section " is Leptinaria chathamensis, a 

 species belonging to a totally distinct group. The name Pelecostoma, 

 therefore, may be safely laid away on the synonymic shelf. 



The question remains as to whether the section Ncesiohis has any 

 just claims to be separated from Thaumastus, Scutahis and other 

 nominal sections of Bulimulus into which so many diverse forms 

 have been gathered. The diagnostic characters given by von Mar- 

 tens in his second edition of Albers are certainly not distinctive or 

 even characteristic of the whole group, or even of several separate 

 species of the same group. The shells are by no means always 

 " aperte perforata," even in the same species ; the columella is as 

 often " plicata " as " recta," and the peristome, while generally 

 " simplex," and sometimes " acutum," is not seldom denticulate or 

 tuberculous and more or less distinctly reflected. The anatomical 

 details, as elsewhere showu, offer no characters by which the species 

 may be differentiated from many of the Bulimuli of the mainland. 

 The utmost that can be said, therefore, is that Ncesiotus is a con- 

 venient term for the geographical group inhabiting the Galapagos 

 Islands, and, as such, we may retain it, without giving way to the 

 delusion that it stands for anything more important. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



In the recent revision 11 by Prof. H. A. Pilsbry of the genus Buli- 

 mulus Leach, the subgenus Bulimulus s. s. is denned as having the 

 apex irregularly wrinkled or with the wrinkles broken into granules 

 or dislocated, while the subgenus Orthotomium has regular vertical 

 riblets. Ncesiotus is referred to the former. The South American 

 Bostryx has the apex smooth and slightly swollen, not funiculate. 



An examination of the entire series of Xcesiotus in the ^National 

 Museum shows that the apex is nearer to that of Orthotomium than 

 to that of Bulimulus s. s. It is characterized invariably by vertical 

 riblets sometimes strong and with subequal furrowed interspaces; 

 sometimes distant with wider, flat interspaces, and sometimes ex- 

 tremely delicate and fine ; but, except when worn, always unbroken 

 and regular and with extremely fine spiral strise visible in a good 

 light, between the riblets. The apex always has a dimple or funicle 

 over the axis, but the upper margin of this is rounded, never keeled 

 as in some species of Orthotomium. This is an important point, as 

 it indicates the origin of the Ncesioti from the more northern stock, 

 or from the same source as the more northern stock. 



It often happens, especially among those species which have the 

 riblets low and fine, that they are broken by wear on the periphery 

 of the nepionic whorls, thus suggesting the Bulimulus type ; or even 

 that they may be entirely removed, while the polished surface show- 

 no traces of erosion. But in young, fresh specimens, they may 

 always be found unbroken and regular, except in the case of rare 

 abnormal individuals. Of the latter, I have come across only one 

 or two in all my series of several hundreds of specimens. 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) achatellinus Forbes. 1'hite XV [I. figure 13. 



Bulimulus achatellinus Fbs., P. Z. S., 1850, p. 56, pi. IX. figs. 5 a-b. 



Bulimulus achatinelhnui Pfr., Mon. Hel. viv., 111. p. 429, 1853; Kiister, in 

 Chemn. Conch. Cab. ed. ii, BuUmus, No. 112, pi. 31, tigs. 19-20. Pfr. Mon., 

 IV, p. 492, 1869. 



BuUmus (Rhaphiellus) achatinellinus Pfr., Vers, in Malak. Bliitt.. II, p. 160, 

 1855. 



Bulimulus (Omphalostrla) achatinettus H. iV; A. Aii>., Gen. Rec. Moll., II, p. 

 161, 1855; Wiramer, Site. Akad. Wish. W'ien., lxxx. p. 43. 1 >79. 



Buliminus (Rhaphiellus) achatinellinus Martens, in Albers, Helieeen, ed. ii, 

 p. 238, 1860. Reibisch, Isis, 1892. p. 15, t. ii, Bg. B. 



Bulimina (Rhaphiellus) achatinellina Pfr., Nom. Hel viv., p. 300, 1881. 



Bulimulus [Rhaphiellus) achatinellinus Stearns, Proc U. S. Nat. Mua ., XVI. 

 p. 428, 1893. 



Habitat. Upper levels of Chatham Island on trees and bushes, 



Kellett, Wolf and Baur; Hood Island, Habel, fide Wimmer. 



11 Nautilus, IX, No. 10, p. 114. 1896. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Three specimens examined, of which one, collected by Dr. Baur, 

 •contained the soft parts. Owing to the fact that the specimen had 

 been partially dried up, it was impossible to examine the genitalia. 



Thejaw was like the jaw of B. ?»<.r,with about 18 irregular flat plate- 

 like ribs, whose blunt ends denticulate the margin, especially the cut- 

 ting edge. The outer margin of these plates is a little raised and thick- 

 ened, the color is pale amber, darker where thickest. The radula 

 was rather broad, the single teeth did not differ in outline from those 

 of B. nux more than those of one specimen of nux differs from those 

 of another. The number of laterals is 14, of marginals 23, the 



formula | 



23 + 14-14 + 23 



It will be observed from these facts that nothing in the dentition 

 of B. aehatellinus justifies the presumption that it deserves a section 

 to itself. In Dr. Baur's specimen, the nucleus is delicately trans- 

 versely ribbed, the vertex almost umbilicate, the earlier whorls 

 nearly white and opaque, pinched up into irregular little tubercles 

 at the suture ; the later whorls have revolving dark brown color 

 bands, separated by whitish interspaces covered with a yellowish 

 epidermis. The base is mostly pale, with a dark band around the 

 umbilicus. The outer lip is sharp-edged, and the umbilicus small. 

 The pillar is short and straight. 



A specimen sent by Cuming to Dr. Lea is not so large, and is 

 darker colored, the ground color being an olivaceous brown with a 

 narrow chestnut band at the periphery ; the base pale and the um- 

 bilicus entirely closed. The nodulous band in front of the suture is 

 present and of a whitish color. 



The name applied by Forbes was aehatellinus, which, by several 

 authors, on the assumption that it was intended as a diminutive of 

 Achatinella, has been emended to achatinellinus, a most awkward 

 and clumsy word. But it is just as likely that he intended the word 

 as a diminutive of the same root as Achatina ; and, at any rate, no 

 one has the right to make changes on an unsupported assumption, 

 for which reason the original form is retained here. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus) nux Broderip. Plate XVI, figure 6; Plate XVII, figure 10. 



Bulinus nux Brod., P. Z. S., 1832, p. 125, (Charles Id.) ; Sby., Conch. 111., p. 

 6, figs. 37, 37*, 1833. 



Bulimus mix Desh. in Lam. An. s. Vert., ed. ii, vol. viii, p. 276, 1838 ; Pfr., 

 Mon. Hel. Viv., II, p. 183, 1848; Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. xxiii, fig. 150 (not 

 typical) ; Smith, P. Z. S , 1877, p. 72. 



Buliminus mix Beck, Ind. Moll., p. 70, 1838. 



Bulimus (Nasiotus) nux Albers, Heliceen, p. 162, (Type of section). 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Bulimulus {Omphalostyla) nux H. & A. Adams, Gen. Rec Moll., II, p. 161, 

 1855. 



Bulimulus {Nesiotes) mix Martens, in Albers ed. II, p. 220, 1860. 



Bulimulus \A r ccsiotus) nux Pfr., Nom. Hel. viv., p. 254, 1881. 



Bulimus nuciformis Petit, Journal de Conchyl., IV, p. 365, pi. xi, fig. 7, 

 1853; Pfr , Mon. Hel. Viv., IV, p. 410, 1859. 



Bulimus [Ncesiotus) nuciformis Pfr., Mai. Blatt., ii. Vers., p. 161, 1854. 



Bulimulus {Nesiotes) nuciformis Martens in Albers, ed. ii, p. 220, 1860. 



Bulimulus (Nrsiolus) nucifortnis Pfr., Nom. Hel. Viv., p. 254, 1881. 



Bulimus incrassatus Pfr., P. Z. S., 1852, p. 157; Kiister in Chemn. Conch. 

 Cab., ed. ii ; Bulimus, No. 88, pi. 30, figs. 13, 14; Pfr., Mon. Hel. Viv., Ill, 

 p. 415, 1853. 



Bulimulus {Omphalostyla) incrassatus H. & A. Ads., Gen. Rec. Moll. II, p. 

 161, 1855. 



Bulimulus unifasciatus Reibisch (non Sby ) Isis, 1892, p. 20, pi. i, fig. 1, not 

 p. 3. 



Bulimulus {A r cEsiotus) nux Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 3. 



Bulimulus (A r asiotus) incrassatus Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 4, t. i. fig. 4a; var. 

 sulcatus Reib., Ibid, p. 4, t. i, figs. 4b c; var. nuciformis Reib., Ibid., p. 4, t. i, 

 fig. 4d. 



Bulimulus (Nrsiotus) nux Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvi, pp. 376-381, 

 425, 426, 1893. 



Variety verrucosus Pfeifler. 



Bulimus verrucosus Pfr., P. Z. S., 1885, p. 116, (Gal. Is.) ; Mon. Hel. viv., 

 IV, p. 475, 1859. 



Bulimus (A'crsiotus) verrucosus Pfr., Mai. Blatt. ii, Vers , p. 161, 1854. 



Bulimulus (Na>siotus) verrucosus Pfr., Nom. Hel. viv., p. 254, 1881 ; Reibisch, 

 Isis, 1892, p. 3. 



Bulimulus asperatus Reibisch (non Pfr.), Isis, 1892, pi. 1. fig. 3, (syn. excl ). 



Variety asperatus Albers. 



Bulimus asperatu s Albers, Malak. Blatt., IV, p. 98, 1857; Pfr., Mon. Hel. 

 viv., IV, p. 475, 1859: VI, p. 121 ; Novit. Conch., IV, p. 145, pi. 133, figs. 8, 

 9. 



Bulimulus (Nesiotes) asperatus Martens in Albers Heliceen, ed. ii, p. 220, 

 1860. 



Bulimulus [A'asiotus) asperatus Pfr., Nom. Hel. viv., p. 254, 1SS1 ; not of 

 Reibisch, Isis, 1892, pi. 1, fig. 3, = verrucosus var. 



Bulimulus invalidus Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 5, t. i, fig. 6. 



Habitat. Original typical nux of Broderip on bushes, Charles 

 Island, in the upper wooded region; mut. nuciformis, Chatham Island, 

 U. S. Fish Commission ; mut. i?ierassatus, on the under side of leaves 

 hibernating, 1,600 feet above the sea, on the S.-W. end of Chatham 

 Island, Baur ; mut. figured by Reeve in Conch. Icon., abundant on 

 Charles Island, U. S. Fish Commission ; variety verrucosus, Chatham 

 Island ; var. asperatus, Charles Island, abundant. Wolf and I 8 

 Fish Commission. The reference to Albemarle Island tor this spe- 

 cies in Stearns' list appears to be due to some accidental misplace- 

 ment of labels, as no specimens from that locality are in the collect- 

 ion or among the duplicates. Number of specimens examined, three 

 hundred and seventy-four. 



The synonymy exhibits, almost as clearly as the specimens, the 

 great variability of this species. The facts also seem to indicate 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 431 



quite positively that a great proportion of this variability in this 

 instance is due quite as much to an intrinsic tendency to vary in the 

 matter of color and form as to any direct influence of the environ- 

 ment promoting by special circumstances any special variation. At 

 least, while it is not questionable that some of the variations might 

 easily be made permanent by natural selection, it is probable, a3 

 yet, that matters have not reached that stage, since the evidence of 

 collectors seems to establish the fact that the different variations of 

 color and form are found indiscriminately in the same region and 

 under the same conditions. Further and more precise observation 

 is needed to establish this beyond controversy, but at present there 

 seems no escape from this conclusion. 



An examination of several specimens by Mr. Binney afforded the 

 following anatomical data : " Genitalia with a short, stout, linguiform, 

 bluntly pointed ovary ; testicle of numerous bunches of long blunt 

 caeca ; epididymis long, convoluted along nearly its whole length ; 

 oviduct long ; genital bladder small, oval, on a long stout duct ; 

 penis sac long, narrow, subcylindrical, white, with a silken lustre, 

 receiving the retractor muscle at its upper third, the vas deferens at 

 its apex." 



Jaw low, wide, ends rather blunt, but little arcuate, anterior sur- 

 face with about 20 broad, flat, crowded ribs, squarely denticulating 

 both margins. It is thin, membranaceous, light horn-colored, of 

 equal height throughout, with the outer edges of the ribs reinforced. 



Radula long and narrow, formula I ; rhachidian with a 



31. 9+9.31 

 long central and two shorter lateral cusps, the whole narrower than 

 the base ; true laterals bicuspid, the outer cusps shorter, 9 in number 

 on each side ; marginals low, wide, with one long wide bifid inner 

 cutting point and one outer short bifid cutting point, the latter in the 

 extreme marginals becoming irregularly serrate. In the figure 

 (plate XVI, fig. 6) of the genitalia, the proximal orifices are sepa- 

 rated, an accident of dissection, the two canals actually open into a 

 single atrium. 



Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) rugulosus Sowerby. Plate XVII, figure 1. 



Bulinus rugulosus Sby., Conch. 111. Part 142, fig. 87 (a, b), 1839. 



Bulimus rugulosus Pfr-, Mon. Hel. Yiv., II, p. 113, 1848. 



Bulimus eschaiiferus Eeeve, Conch. Icon., ph xx, fig. 121, (text, figure ex- 

 cluded), 1848, not of Sowerby. 



Bulimulus (Omphalostyla) rugulosus H. & A. Adams, Gen. Rec. Moll., II, p. 

 161, 1855. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Bulimulus (Ncesiotus) rugulosus Pfr., Nom. Hel. viv., p. 254, 1881 ; Ancey, 

 Bull. Soc. Mai. France, IV, p. 294, 1887, (Chatham Island) ; Stearns, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., xvi, pp. 381, 426, 1893. _ 



B. rugulosus var. injuscata Ancey, op. cit., p. 294, 1887, 



? Bulimulus (Aasiolus) nudus Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p 9, t. i, fig- 15. 



Not B. rugulosus Reibisch, lsis, 1892, p. 7, t. i, figs. 11 a-b, = B. perspec- 

 tive Pfr. 



Under stones near the shore, Blackbeach Road, Charles Island, 

 Dr. Baur ; Charles Island, Darwin and Wolf; Chatham Island, 

 Darwin, Kellett and Cuming. 



Jaw thin, membranaceous, light horn-colored, low, wide, arcuate, 

 of equal height throughout, ending bluntly ; anterior surface with 

 about 20 broad, flat ribs, their outer edges reinforced, the margins 

 of the jaw squarely denticulated by the projecting ends of the ribs. 



Some varieties of B. mix approach this species quite closely, espe- 

 cially that to which Reibisch gave the name of invalidus. 



Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) planospira Ancey, Plate XVI, figure 3. 



Bulimus eschariferus Reeve, Conch Icon., pi. xx, fig. 121 (bad, text excl.), 

 1848. 



Bulimulus rugulosus var. plauospira Ancey, Bull. Soc. Mai. de France, IV, 

 p. 294, 1887. 



Bulimulus rugulosus Reeve (Smith, in litt.) ex parte. 



Northeast end of Charles Island, at about 200 feet, Dr. Baur. 



This is one of the most elegant species of the group. It is verv 

 closely related to B. rugulosus from which it may be discriminated 

 by its larger size and greater number of whorls, and by the deeper 

 suture and more lax manner in which the last whorl is coiled. In 

 B. planospira the spiral sculpture is usually more elevated and con- 

 spicuous. It has been found only on a limited portion of Charles 

 Island, while rugulosus is common on both Charles and Chatham. 

 As this form has not been figured I include a figure of it. 

 Bulimulus (Neesiotus) ustulatus Sowerby. 



Bulinus ustulatus Sby., P. Z. S., 1833, p. 72, (Charles Island) ; Conch. 111., 

 p. 6, fig. 42, 1833. 



Bulimus ustulatus Desh. in Lam. An. s. Vert., ed. II, vol. viii. p. 279, 1838; 

 Pfr., Mon. Hel. Viv., II, p. 217. 1848; Custer, in Chemn. Conch. Cab., ed. 

 II, Bulimus, t. 62, figs. 16-18; Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. xxi, fig. 130, 1848. 



Bulimiuus ustulatus Beck, Ind. Moll., p. 70, 1838. 



Bulimulus (Omplialostyla) ustulatus II. & A. Ad., Gen. Rec. Moll., II, p. 

 161, 1855. 



Bulimus {N«-siotus) ustulatus Albers, Heliceen, p. 162, 1850. 



Bulimulus {Nesiotes) ustulatus Martens in Albers, ed. ii, p. 221, 1S60- 



Bulimulus (A'u-siotus) ustulatus Pfr., Nom. Hel. Viv., p. 254, 18S1 ; Stearns, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvi, p. 427, 1893. 



Bulimulus [Nariotus) venustus Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p 5, t. i, fig. 7 ; not B. 

 ustulatus Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 4, t. i, fig. 5, = nu.x var. 



Charles Island, Cuming. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



This species is notable for the yellowness of its paler parts and the 

 bright sienna brown of its darker portions. It is closely related to 

 B. calvus Sby., which is a smaller and more streaky shell. The 

 form figured by Reeve and Reibisch under this name is larger than 

 the true ustulatw, and is considered by Dr. Stearns to be a banded 

 variety of B. mix. 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) calvus Sowerby. 



Bulinus calvus Sby., P. Z. S., 1S33, p. 72 (James Island) ; Conch. 111., p. 6, 

 fig. 41, 1833. 



Bulimus calvus Desh. in Lam. An. s. Vert., ed. ii, vol. viii, p. 179, 1838; 

 Pfr., Mon. Hel. Viv., II, p. 225, 1848; Kuster, in Chemn. Conch. Cab., ed. 

 ii, Bulimus, t. 62, figs. 37, 38. 



Buliminus calvus Beck, Ind. Moll., p. 70, 1838. 



Bulimulus {Omphalostyla) clavus H. & A. Ad., Gen. Rec. Moll. II, p. 161, 

 1855. 



Bulimus calvus Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. xx, fig. 126, 1848. 



Bulimulus {Nesiotes) calvus Martens in Albers, ed. ii, p. 221, 1860. 



Bulimulus {iVccsiotus) calvus Pfr., Nom. Hel. Viv., p. 254, 1881 ; Reibisch, 

 Isis, 1892, p. 6, t. i, fig. 8; Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvi, p. 427, 1893, 

 ex parte. 



James Island, Cuming ; Charles Island, U. S. Fish Commission, 

 Cuming and Wolf; Chatham Island, Kellett. 



Specimens sent under this name by Cuming and Reibisch agree 

 well with those collected by the U. S. Fish Commission. It is 

 closely related to B. ustulatns and is rather nearly approached by 

 certain dwarfish, unusually smooth specimens of B. rugulosus. B. 

 nucula Pfr. is also closely allied. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus) nucula Pfeiffer. 



Bulimus nucula Pfr., P. Z. S., 1852, p. 60 (Gal. Is.) ; Mon. Hel. Viv., Ill, 

 p. 415, 1853 ; IV, p. 475, 1859. 



Bulimus {NiTsiolus) nucula Pfr., Mai. Blatt. II. Vers., p. 161, 1S54. 



Bulimulus {Omphalostyla) nucula H. & A. Ads., Gen. Rec. Moll., II, p. 161, 

 1855. 



Bulimulus {Nesiotes) nucula Martens, in Albers Heliceen, ed. ii, p. 221, 

 1860. 



Bulimulus {N&siotus) nucula Pfr., Nom. Hel. Viv., p. 254, 1881 ; Reibisch, 

 Isis, 1892, p. 3, t. i, fig. 2. 



Bulimulus {Xcesiolus) nux var. Stearns, Proc. U. S Nat. Mus., xvi, pp. 380, 

 426, 1893. 



Charles Island, Wolf, fide Reibisch ; Chatham Island near the 

 S.-W. end, at a height of 1,600 feet, Baur. 



A specimen submitted to Mr. Edgar A. Smith of the British 

 Museum, was said to be somewhat darker colored and more coarsely 

 striated than the type of nucula in that collection. These are, how- 

 ever, trivial differences under the circumstances. It agrees closely 

 with a specimen sent by Reibisch under the name of nucula. It is 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



a smoother, smaller and more compact shell than rugulosus, and 

 shows a somewhat attenuated and dark colored apex, resembling that 

 of galapaganus Pfr. It is, perhaps, most closely related to B. ustu- 

 latus or B. calvus Sby., and a sufficient series might very likely con- 

 nect them. No living specimens of this species were collected, 

 though there are some fresh shells. 



Bulimulus (Neesiotus) eschariferus Sowerby. 



Bulinus eschariferus Sby., Conch. 111., figs. 85 (a, b), 1833. 



Bulimus eschariferus Pfr., Symb., II, p. 45 ; Mon. Hel. Viv., II, p. 115, 

 1848; Smith, P. Z. S.. 1877, p. 72. 



Bulimulus (Mesiolus) eschariferus Pfr., Norn. Hel. Viv., p. 254, 1881 ; Rei- 

 bisch, Isis, 1892, p. 2. 



Bulimus rugulosus Reeve (not Sby.), Conch. Icon., pi. xx, fig. 123, 1848 

 (citation, diagnosis and figure refer to eschariferus). 



Bulimulus {Omphalostyla) eschariferus H. & A. Ad., Gen. Rec. Moll. II, p. 

 161, 1855. 



Bulimulus eschariferus Ancey, Bull. Soc. Mai. France, IV, p. 295, 1887. 



B. eschariferus var. bizonalis Ancey, op. cit., p. 295, 1887. 



B. eschariferus var. subconoidalis Ancey, op. cit., p. 295, 1887. 



Bulimulus (Afesiolus) eschariferus Stearns, Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus.. xvi, pp. 

 381, 426, 1893. 



Chatham Island, Darwin, Kellett, U. S. Fish Commission and 

 Dr. Baur, under stones near the shore at Wreck Bay and elsewhere ; 

 Charles Island, H. M. S. Peterel. 



Though this species, as usually received, is apparently smooth and 

 polished, it has minute more or less granular spirals, which it is 

 probable in the young state bear hairs. Among the living speci- 

 mens obtained at Chatham Island by the U. S. Fish Commission 

 were some rather smaller than the average and covered with a dense 

 brown epidermis, which bears numerous spiral lines more or less 

 minutely granulose, a small hair or process of the epidermis pro- 

 jecting from each granule, giving tin- .-hell a pilose appearance. 

 These specimens measure about 12 mm. in length and 5 mm. in 

 diameter, the color of the shell is browner than in the type, and, 

 when denuded of the periostracum, the shell is seen to be marked by 

 numerous fine sharp, almost microscopic spirals. It may, perhaps, 

 form a variety pileattis, of the typical escharifenu. 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) eschariferus var. ventrosus Reibisch. Fiate XVII. figure 3. 



Bulimulus {Xicsiotus) ventrosus Reibiseh, Isis, 1892, p. 7, t. i, fig. 12 a-b. 



Barrington Island, common ; Wolf, tide Reibisch, also Dr. G. 

 Baur, who found it under stones near the shore. 



A specimen of this form was sent to Mr. Smith at the British 

 Museum, and by him compared with the type of B. escharifenu with 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



which he identified it. In color, form and range of variation the 

 Barrington Island shells agree perfectly with those from Chatham 

 and Charles Island (esc harif eras), but the latter are always a little 

 more slender if the specimens I have seen can be taken as a criterion. 

 Twenty-four of them averaged 16 mm. long by 5 mm. in diameter 

 above the aperture, while the diameter of the most slender of forty- 

 two Barrington Island specimens was 6 mm. The latter have the 

 spire less attenuated and slightly more compact. On the whole, it is 

 doubtful if this form can rank higher than as a local race of eschari- 

 feru-s. 



Jaws light horn-colored, low, wide, thin, slightly arcuate, of equal 

 height throughout, with blunt ends ; anterior surface with about 16 

 irregularly wide flat ribs, their outer edges reinforced, their ends 

 bluntly denticulating the upper and lower edges of the jaw. 



i 



Radula long and narrow; formula 13-(-9_. 9+13 ; rhachidian tooth 



X 2 2 X 

 tricuspid, tbe lateral cusps shorter ; lateral teeth bicuspid ; margin- 

 als with one longer inner bifid cutting point and the outer short, 

 wide cusp broken up into three or four denticles. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus) galapaganus Pfeiffer. 



Bulimidus galapaganus Pfr., P. Z. S., 1S54, p. 58. Mon. Hel. viv. IV, p. 

 503, 1859. 



Bulimulus {iVcssiotus) galapaganus Pfr., Mai. Blatt. II, Vers., p. 160, 1854. 



Bulimulus (Nesiotes) galapaganus Martens, in Albers Heliceen, ed. ii, p. 

 221, 1860. 



Bulimulus {A T <rsiotus) galapaganus Pfr., Xom. Hel. viv., p. 1SS1 ; Reibisch, 

 Isis, 1892, p. 8; Stearns, Proc. U. S. >"at. Mas., XVI, p. 427, 1-93. 



Charles Island, at about 200 ft. elevation, near the northeast end 

 of the island, Dr. Baur. 



This is very closely related to B. ustulatus Sby., is slightly longer 

 and more pupiform, and wants the bright yellowish bands. The 

 whorls are more rounded in B. galapaganus than in B. per- 

 spective, and the latter is darker and more uniformly colored. 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) perspectivus Pfeiffer. 



Bulimia perspectivus Pfr., P. Z. S., 1S46, p. 33 ; Mon. Hel. viv., ii. p. 97, 

 1848 ; Reeve, Conch. Icon , Bulimus, pi. 63, fig. 435. 



Bulimulus {Ataxus) perspectivus Pfr., Clessiu, Xomencl. Hel. viv., p. 2-53, 

 1881. 



Bulimulus [Ncesiotus] rugulosus Reibisch, Isis., 1892, p. 7, t. i, figs. 11 a-b. 



Chatham Island, Galapagos, 300-600 ft., "Wolf, fide Reibisch, on 

 rocks and under stones. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



This species is in the British Museum, and appears in the litera- 

 ture, without a known habitat, but Herr Reibisch has courteously 

 forwarded two specimens for inspection, with the information that 

 they are from Chatham Island, Wolf, collector. 



The species resembles B. eschariferus in form, but it is of a deep, 

 reddish, instead of an olivaceous brown, and is more rudely striated. 

 One specimen shows traces of a narrow, pale band on the last whorl, 

 the other does not. The lip is dark colored. One of the specimens 

 has the base of the pillar very prominent, almost channelled, the 

 other is quite normal. The shell is midway between the typical 

 eschariferus and the var. ventrosus in size. The first reference of it 

 to B. rugulosus by Herr Reibisch was undoubtedly an error, which 

 that gentleman detected upon examining the specimens in the Brit- 

 ish Museum. 



Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) jacobi Sowerby. 



Bulimus jacobi Sby., P. Z. S., 1833, p. 74 (James Id.) Conch. 111., p. 7, figs. 

 45,45 (2 vars.) 1833. 



Bulimus jacobi Desh. in Lam. An. S. Vert., ed. ii, vol. viii, p. 281, 1838; 

 Pfr., Mon. Hel. viv., II, p. 98, 1848 (not of Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. XXI, 

 fig. 135, 1848 = B, olla). 



Buliminus jacobi Beck, Ind. Moll., p. 70, 1838. 



Bulimulus {Omphalostyla) jacobi H. & A. Ads., Gen. Rec. Moll., ii. p. 161, 

 1855. 



Bulimus (Niesiotus) jacobi Albers, Helic, p. 162, 1850; Pfr., Vers., p. 160. 



Bulimulus {A'esivtes) jacobi Martens, in Albers, ed. ii, p. 221, 1860. 



Bulimulus {Na-siotus) jacobi Pfr., Xom. Hel. viv., p. 254, 1881. Reibisch. 

 Isis, 1892, p. 6. Not B. jacobi Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, p. 381, 

 1893. 



Bulimulus (Mesiotus) pallidus Reibisch. Isis, 1892, p. 6, t. i, fig. 9. 



Bulimulus (A'u-siotus) acutus Reib., op. cit., p. 8, t. i, fig. 13, 1892. 



James Island, Cuming ; Charles Island, Cuming; typical, in U. 

 S. Nat. Mus., from original specimens received by Dr. Lea; 1,600 

 ft. near Wreck Bay, Chatham Island, on the under side of leaves of 

 plants (var. pallidas), and on East Albemarle Island, Dr. Baur ; 

 Albemarle Island, 200-800 ft. on bushes and stones, Wolf, fide 

 Reibisch (var. pallidus) ; Chatham Island, 900-2,000 ft., in damp 

 places and on the trunks of trees (var. acutus) Wolf. 



The variety pallidus differs from the typical form in being slightly 

 smaller and more slender without the wrinkles, and it is probable 

 that a large series would show no dividing line between the variety 

 and the type. 



The variety acutus differs from pallidus in the almost entire ab- 

 sence of the spiral granulated sculpture, leaving much of the surface 

 polished and smooth, except for incremental liues. Reibisch's figure 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



shows one whorl more in the same length than the specimen he was 

 kind enough to send me for examination, but slight differences of 

 this kind are common among these very variable forms. It also 

 comes very close to some varieties of B. nucula and B. amastroides, 

 the latter being slightly smaller and more spindle-shaped. 



The typical B. jacobi, sent by Cuming to Dr. Lea in 1838, is a 

 small, stout shell, with rather inflated whorls, covered with fine 

 granulations, minute, obliquely transverse broken wrinkles, and fine 

 granular spirals, hardly visible without magnification. The shell is 

 pale reddish-brown, sometimes with a narrow, pale peripheral band. 

 The pillar and body are without fold or tubercular callus. Those 

 collected by Dr. Baur on Charles Island are the smallest I have 

 seen which can be positively referred to this species. The larger, 

 smooth form figured by Reeve under this name is distinct, and will 

 be found referred to under the name of B. olla. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus) jacobi var. oinereus Reibisch. Plate XVI, fig. 14. 



Bulimiilus [Nicsiotus) cinereus Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 7, t. i, fig. 10. 

 Bulimulus jacobi var. vermiculatus Dall, Nautilus, VII, p. 53, Sept., 1893. 



James Island at James Bay, Dr. Baur and Wolf. No living 

 specimens of this species appear to have been collected. 



This variety is hardly separable from the smaller B. jacobi, 

 though the dead and the fresh shells appear quite dissimilar. It is 

 somewhat smaller than the smallest undoubted jacobi, and the 

 granular sculpture is more dense and uniform. I have not seen 

 any specimens with a spire as long and pointed as in Reibisch's fig- 

 ure. A specimen sent by him agrees in every way with those col- 

 lected by Dr. Baur. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus) olla Dall. Plate XVI, fig. 2. 



Bulimia jacobi Reeve, Conch. Icon. Bulimia, pi. XXI, fig. 135, 1848. 

 Bulimulus olla Dall, Nautilus, VII, p. 53, September, 1893. 



James Island, Cuming, Lea Collection ; Duncan Island, all dead, 

 but fresh, Dr. Baur ; Barrington Island, dead, Dr. Baur ; Conway 

 Bay, Indefatigable Island, Dr. Baur. 



This shell is closely related to B. jacobi, and was figured by 

 Reeve under that name. B. olla is larger, and wants the granula- 

 tions of B. jacobi, its surface is nearly smooth and almost polished, 

 marked with faint incremental lines, has seven whorls (against six 

 in the other species) and a very bulbous pillar. The present species 

 inhabits the grassy upper zone, while B. jacobi is found in the wooded 

 area. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) Tanneri Dall. Plate XVI, fig. 5. 



Bulimulus (Nasiotus) Fanneri Dall, Nautilus, VIII, p. 127, March, 1895 

 {err. typ. pro Tanneri, corrected in the index, p. iii, April, 1895). 



Shell short, stout, pointed, with two nepionic and four subsequent 

 whorls ; nucleus rather coarsely transversely ribbed, the interspaces 

 somewhat wider; the subsequent whorls marked by incremental 

 lines and obsolete traces of fine, partly granulose, inconstant spiral 

 threads, only perceptible under a lens ; color pinkish or brownish- 

 white with no traces of a peripheral paler band ; whorls somewhat 

 inflated, suture conspicuous, umbilicus large and deeply pervious ; 

 aperture large with a widely expanded lip, the outer lip much bent 

 over at the body, closely approaching the pillar and united to it by 

 a distinct callus ; length 11 ; max. diameter 70 mm. 



Indefatigable Island, U. S. Fish Commission. 



This is about the size of B. cinereus Reib., but is more conical, in- 

 flated and stouter, with a very differently shaped aperture, the lip 

 being more expanded and reflected than in any other species yet 

 described from these islands. It is named in honor of Capt. Z. L. 

 Tanner, U. S. N., commanding the U. S. S. Albatross during the 

 Galapagos explorations. None of the specimens were living. 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) duncanus Dall. Plate XVI, fig. 7. 



Bulimulus (Ntcsiotus) duncanus Dall, Nautilus, VII, p. 52, September, 1893. 



The shell is short, stout, inflated, thin, with two nepionic and four- 

 and-a-half subsequent whorls. The apex is rather pointed, the 

 axial dimple small, the whorls rapidly enlarging, with the suture 

 behind the last whorl deeper than the rest and more oblique to the 

 axis; the aperture is relatively small and rather oblique, the lip 

 simple, sharp, not reflected, connected across the body with a thin 

 callus, a single tubercle on the body, well within the aperture, and 

 about equidistant from either lip ; umbilicus perforate, narrow ; 

 height of the shell 18, of the last whorl 125 ; diameter of shell 11 

 mm. 



Dead specimens only were found on Duncan Island, by Dr. 

 Baur. 



The sculpture comprises only incremental lines and faint wrinkles 

 in harmony with them, especially just in front of the suture and 

 near the end of the last whorl. When perfectly fresh, there were 

 probably microscopic granules spirally arranged and sparsely dis- 

 tributed, but these are now represented only by minute spots of 

 erosion. Except the largest specimens of B. mix, these shells are 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



the largest Bulimuli described from the islands. They are, however, 

 thinner than any specimens of B. nux, in this respect resembling B. 

 unifasciatus Sby. 

 Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) Darwini Pfeiffer. 



Bulimus DarwiniPfr., P. Z. S., 1846, p. 29 (Gal. Ids). Mon. Hel., viv. ii, 

 p. 199, 1848; Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. XXI, fig. 136 (Gal. Ids.), 1848. 



Bulimulus ( Omphalostyla) Darwini H. & A. Ad., Gen. Eec Moll., II, p. 

 161, 1855 ; Wimmer, Sitzb. Akad. Wiss. Wien, lxxx, p. 44, 1879. 



Bulimulus (Nesiotes) Darwini Martens, in Albers, Heliceen, ed. ii, p. 220, 

 1860. 



Bulimulus (Ncesiotus) Danvini Pfr., Mon. Hel. viv. p. 254, 1881 ; Reibisch, 

 Isis, 1892, p. 10; Stearns, Proc U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, p. 427, 1893. 



Bulimus tnanini " Pfr." Carpenter, Rep. Brit. Assoc, 1856, p. 359 ; Stearns, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, pp. 405, 427, 1893 (Err. typ.). 



Bindloe Island, Habel, fide Wimmer. 



The type specimen of this species has disappeared from the Cum- 

 ingian Collection, and I have been unable to obtain a specimen 

 for examination. The only reference to the particular island upon 

 which it lives is derived from Habel. 



Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) Wolfi Reibisch. 



Bulimulus (N&siotus) Wolfi Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 10, t. ii, figs. 1 a-b; 

 Stearns, op. cit., pp. 414, 427, 1893. 



Indefatigable Island, Wolf, fide Reibisch. 



A specimen of this species kindly forwarded for examination 

 by Herr Reibisch is clearly distinct from anything I have seen. 

 It resembles B.Simrothi Reib., but is more robust, the surface of the 

 upper whorls smoother aud more regular in sculpture, the pillar- 

 tooth is more prominent and stronger, the parietal tooth, apparently 

 normal, is not found in any Simrothi I have seen, the umbilicus is 

 larger than in the latter species. It resembles Reeve's figure of B. 

 Darwini somewhat, but the latter is 17 mm. long, while B. Wolfi 

 only reaches a length of 13*5 mm. 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) unifasciatus Sowerby. Plate XVII, figs. 6, 11. 



Bulimus unifasciatus Sby., P. Z. S., 1833, p. 37 (Charles Id.). Conch. 111., 

 fig. 55, 1833. 



Bulimus unifasciatus Desh. in Lam. An. s. Vert., Ed. ii, vol. viii, p. 277, 

 1838. Reeve, Conch. Icon., XXIII, fig. 149 (bad) 1848. Pfr., Mon. Hel. 

 viv. II. p. 195, 1848. Smith, P. Z. S., 1877, p. 72. 



Bulimulus unifasciatus Beck, Index, p. 67, 1838. 



Bulimulus ( Omphalostyla) unifasciatus H. & A. Ads., Gen. Rec Moll., II, 

 p. 161,1855. 



Bulimulus [Nesiotes) unifasciatus Martens, in Albers, ed. ii, p. 220, 1860. 



Bulimulus (Ncesiotus) unifasciatus Pfr. Nom. Hel. viv., p. 254, 1881; 

 Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, p. 427, 1893. 



Bulimulus unifasciatus Reibisch, Isis, 1892. p. 3, syn. ; but not p. 20, pi. i, 

 fig. 1 (=««.* var.). 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



James Island, under lava, Cuming in Lea Collection ; Chatham 

 Island, near the southwest end, at a height of about 1,600 feet, Dr. 

 Baur ; Chatham Island, Kellett ; Charles Island, Cuming and H. 

 M. S. Peterel. 



Jaw thin, horn colored, arcuate, of equal height throughout, with 

 blunt ends ; anterior surface with about 14 broad, crowded, flattish 

 ribs, reinforced along their outer edges ; the ends of the ribs broad, 

 squarely denticulating the upper and lower margin of the jaw. 



Radula long, thin, narrow ; formula 1 ; rhachidian tooth 



84-12-12+8 



stout, tricuspid, with very short lateral cusps; perfect laterals, about 



twelve in number, bicuspid, with very short outer cusps; marginals 



low, wide, with a long bifid inner cusp outside of which the cutting 



edge is broken up into four or five denticles of nearly equal length. 



In its thin and ample shell, uniform reddish-brown color, and 



narrow, well-defined peripheral pale band, this form resembles the 



species of the mainland more than any other Galapagos species. The 



transverse riblets on the nepionic shell are very fine and almost 



always decorticated ; the granular spirals are almost microscopic, 



and when fresh and perfect, bear small projections of the perio- 



stracum. 



Bulimulus (Nasiotus) Simrothi Reibisch. Plate XVI, figs. 11, 12, 13; Plate XVII. 

 fig. 2. 



Bulimulus (Ncesiotus) Simrothi Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 11, t. 2, fig. '1\ 

 Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. .Mus.. XVI, pp. 414, 428, 18*3. 



Bulimulus (N(tsiotus) tortuganus Dall, Nautilus., VII, p. 54, 1893. 



La Tortuga, grassy zone, South Albemarle, Baur; 1,000-2,000 feet, 

 in the moist region, Albemarle Island, AVolf. 



Herr Reibisch has kindly furnished a photograph of one of his 

 types of B. Simrothi with which I have compared my specimens of 

 tortuganus. Wolf's shell in the photograph appears smoother, with- 

 out the deeply indented markings, and exhibits color streaks in 

 harmony \vith the lines of growth which none of the specimens of 

 tortuganus do. Nevertheless, the two forms should probably be 

 united, especially as Reibisch's description agrees better than the 

 photograph as respects surface and color. As the specimens collected 

 by Wolf were more or less immature, the original diagnosis needs 

 some additional data. 



Jaw light horn colored, thin, membranaceous, arcuate, of equal 

 height throughout and with the ends blunt; anterior surface with 

 about 17 rather narrow, flat crowded ribs, with thickened outer 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



edges, the upper and lower margins of the jaw bluntly denticulated 

 by the squarish ends of the ribs. Radula of the same type as in the 

 species previously mentioned. 



I have figured several specimens to show the variations of form 

 and sculpture. When mature the shell always has a pretty solidly 

 thickened peristome. The young are more translucent and show 

 projecting points of epidermis along the minute granular spiral lines, 

 as in B. unifasciatus, and like that species show a distinct peripheral 

 paler baud. 



Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) Bauri Dall. Plate XV, fig. 12; Plate XVII, figs. 7, 15. 



Btdimuhis {Nasiotus) Bauri Dall, Nautilus, VII, p. 54, September, 1893. 



Hibernating on the under side of leaves of plants at the south- 

 west end of Chatham Island, 1,600 feet above the sea, Dr. Baur. 



Jaw thin, light horn colored, arcuate, of equal height throughout, 

 with blunt ends ; anterior surface with about 12 broad, flat, crowded 

 ribs, their outer edges reinforced and their ends bluntly denticulat- 

 ing the upper and lower edges of the jaw. 



Radula long and narrow ; formula about 1 ; rachidian 



15+9-9+15 

 tooth and nine perfect laterals, differing little from those of the 

 other species already described ; marginals with the inner cusp 

 broad and bifid or at the extreme margin trifid, the outer cusp 

 broken up more or less irregularly into several denticles or groups 

 of denticles. 



Genitalia essentially as in B. mix. 



This is a very distinct little species, with a pale yellow-brown 

 body whorl darkening toward the tip of the spire, with conspicuous, 

 lighter transverse wrinkles on the upper whorls, and fine ribbing 

 on the nepionic shell which is of a livid purple, almost black. In 

 specimens which have survived hibernation, the aperture is usually 

 produced, contracted, and conspicuously thickened. Many speci- 

 mens have a narrow, pale line in front of the suture. There is no 

 spiral sculpture. 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) amastroides Ancey. Plate XV, fig. 16. 



Bulimulus {Nesiotus) a?nastroides Ancey, Bull. Soc. Mai. de France, IV, p. 

 293, 1887. 



Bulimulus jacobi Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, pp. 381, 426, 1893, 

 not of Sby. 



Bulimulus calvus var. ? Stearns, op. cit. t p. 427. 



Chatham Island, U. S. Fish Commission. 



This is the smooth form of which the plicate aspect is B. curtus of 

 Reibisch and Anceyi of Dall. Jaw membranaceous, horn colored, 



29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



low, wide, thin, of equal height throughout, ends terminating 



bluntly ; anterior surface with about 22 broad, crowded ribs, their 



outer edges thickened, their ends bluntly denticulating the upper 



and lower margins of the jaw. 



The shell has an olivaceous tint which distinguishes it at once 



from the mostly reddish or yellowish-brown species of which the 



fauna contains so many. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus) curtus Reibisch. Plate XV, fig. 13: Plate XVII; fig. 8. 



Bulimulus {Nccsiottis\ curtus Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 9, t. i, fig. 14. 

 Bulimulus (Nccsiotus) amastroides Ancey, var. Anceyi~Dz\\, Nautilus, VII, 

 p. 53, September, 1893. 



Chatham Island, near Wreck Bay, at a height of 1,600 feet, Baur ; 

 usually on the under surface of the leaves of plants. Also reported 

 from Chatham by Wolf (Reibisch) in grassy places and on the 

 trunks of trees, at from 900 to 2,000 feet, and by the U. S. Fish Com- 

 mission. 



This is very closely related to B. amastroides Ancey, of which it 

 is probably an offshoot. It has, in general, a more plicate surface, 

 ruder aspect, smaller mouth, and more angular periphery. Speci- 

 mens submitted by Herr Reibisch as representing his curtus agree 

 exactly with the types of my variety Anceyi. 



Jaw as in typical amastroides. Radula long and narrow ; formula 

 1 ; rhachidian tooth tricuspid ; laterals tricuspid ; both 



11+9-9+11 



with the lateral cusps quite short ; marginals subquadrate, low, 

 wide, with a longer bifid inner cusp and an outer, shorter cutting 

 edge with three or four denticles upon it. 



Genitalia essentially as in B. nux, 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) canaliferus Reibisch. Plate XV. fig. 14. 



Bulimulus {Pelecostoma) canaliferus Reibisch, Isis, 1S92, p. 13, t. ii, fig. 6 ; 

 Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, pp. 415, 428, 1S93. 



Chatham Island, in moss and on ferns, 900-2,000 feet, Wolf, fide 

 Reibisch. 



This is a peculiar shell, characterized by its many-whorled spire, 

 short aperture, and a large umbilicus with its walls deeply exca- 

 vated, so that the groove shows as a prominent ridge on the pil- 

 lar within the aperture. In the specimen sent by Herr Reibisch 

 the edge of the aperture is hardly thickened and not at all reflected, 

 there is a thin callus deposit over the body, but no trace of a parie- 

 tal tooth. The species, with a totally different surface, has some- 

 what the form of B. rugiferus, but with a less slender and shorter 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



spire. Keibisch's figure gives the impression of a more slender shell 

 than the specimen I have examined. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus^ sculpturatus Pfeiffer. 



Bulimus sculpturatus Pfr., P. Z. S., 1846, p. 29 (Gal. Is.). Mon. Hel. 

 viv., II, p. 183, 1848 ; IV, p. 476, 1S59. 



Bulimus [Nczsiotus) sculpturatus Pfr., Mai. Blatt. ii. Vers., p. 161, 1854. 



Bulimus sculpturatus Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. XX, fig. 125, 1S48. 



Bulimulus ( Omphalostyla) sculpturatus H. & A. Ads., Gen. Rec. Moll., ii, p. 

 161, 1855. 



Bulimulus (Nesiotes) sculpturatus Martens, in Albers, Helioeen, Ed. ii, p. 

 220, 1860. 



Bulimulus (Ntzsiolus) sculptm atus Pfr., Nom. Hel. viv., p. 254, 1881 ; Rei- 

 bisch, Isis, p. 10, 1S92 ; Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvi, p. 427, 1893. 



The particular island to which this species, collected by Darwin, 

 belongs, is not known. I have not been able to obtain a specimen 

 for examination. Reeve's figure recalls a specimen of B. Simrothi 

 in which the lip has not yet been developed fully, but if his meas- 

 urement is correct, the shell should be a little larger as well as more 

 slender thau in B. Simrothi. 



Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) rugiferus Sowerby. 



Bulimus rugiferus Sby., P. Z. S., 1833, p. 36 (James Id.), Conch. 111., fig. 

 40, 1833. 



Cochlicellus rtigifer Beck, Index, p. 63 Xo. 11, 1838. 



Bulimus rugiferus Desh. in Lam. An. s. Vert., Ed. ii, vol. viii, p. 276. 

 1838. Pfr. Mon. Hel. viv., II, p. 115, 1848. Reeve, Conch. Icon., XX, fig. 

 118, 1848. 



Bulimulus {Omphalostyla) rugiferus H. & A. Ad., Gen. Rec. Moll., II, p. 

 161, 1855. 



Bulimulus {Nesiotes) rugiferus Martens, in Albers, ed. ii, p. 220, 1860. 



Bulimulus [JV&siotus) rugiferus Pfr., Xom. Hel. viv., p. 254, 1881. Reibisch, 

 Isis, 1892, p. 9. Stearns, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XVI, p. 427, 1893. 



James Island, Cuming. 



This species is related to B. nesioticus and B. Reibischi from both 

 of which it is distinguished by details of form. I have seen a num- 

 ber of specimens, but all were from the original series in the Cumin, 

 gian Collection. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus) nesioticus Dall n. s. Plate XVI, fig. 1. 



Shell small, thin, pale brown, with two nepionic and five subse- 

 quent whorls ; spire slender, suture distinct, umbilicus small or ob- 

 solete, apex rather blunt with an axial dimple, nepionic whorls 

 transversely ribbed with fine, even regular riblets with about equal 

 interspaces ; the next whorl is sculptured with fiue spirals, close set, 

 under which are fine transverse wrinkles ; the subsequent whorls 

 show a more or less variable transverse ribbing, in which the ribs 

 have a tendency to break up and vary in direction ; these are crossed 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



by fine, often granulose spirals, which are swollen where they cross 

 the riblets ; aperture small, throat yellowish, the pillar white, widely 

 reflected without any terminal plait or callus, outer lip thickened, 

 somewhat expanded, continuous with the pillar and a slight callus 

 on the body. Length 12, breadth 5 mm. 



James Island, U. S. Fish Commission. 



This interesting species was obtained on James Island in small 

 numbers, one specimen fresh but none living, the one figured has 

 rather sparser ribbing than the best preserved specimen. Most of 

 them are bleached white. The shell appears to be intermediate in 

 character and size between B. seulpturatus as figured, and B. rugi- 

 ferus Sby. It was at first referred to the latter species, but further 

 study showed B. nesioticus to have two whorls less in the same 

 length and to be a perceptibly stouter shell. 

 Bulimulus (Naesiotus) Reibiscbi Dall. Plate XVI, fig. 4. 



Bulimulus {Nczsiotus) ReibischiT)2L\\, Nautilus, viii, p. 126, March, 1895. 



Shell elevated, slender, with nine whorls of a pale ferruginous 

 color and rather solid consistency; sculpture like that of B. nesioti- 

 cus but rather more closely ribbed ; the suture distinct, somewhat 

 appressed, whorls little inflated but not flattened ; umbilicus a mere 

 chink ; aperture oval, higher than wide, rounded in front, the pillar 

 simple, the margins thickened but not reflected; length 11.0, diame- 

 ter 2.5 mm. 



Indefatigable Island, two specimens, U. S. Fish Commission. 



This shell, though shorter, is intermediate between such forms as 

 B. chemnitzioides and the more normal Ncesioti. It is named in 

 honor of Herr Paul Reibisch, of Dresden, who recently worked up 

 the land shells collected by Wolf in these islands, in a paper to 

 which I have made frequent reference. 



Bulimulus new species. Plate XV, fig. 15. 



Shell of about nine whorls, small, slender, with flattish sides, 

 almost cylindrical, transversely finely wrinkled, suture distinct ; 

 aperture small, the outer lip sharp, the pillar lip short, broadly re- 

 flected, without plait or projecting callus ; length 11.5, breadth 2.5 

 mm. 



One specimen foand on James and two on Indefatigable Island. 

 Reibisch in litt. 



The above description and figure are taken from a photograph 

 kindly submitted to me by Herr Reibisch. I refrain from naming 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



the species as the last mentioned gentleman had over two years ago 

 announced his intention of describing it, but has so far, I believe, 

 published nothing referring to it. As a distinct form from any pre- 

 viously reported from these islands, I have thought best to briefly 

 indicate it. 

 Bulimulus (Nsesiotus) chemnitzioides Forbes. Plate XVII, fig. 4. 



Bulimus chemnitzioides Fbs., P. Z. S., 1850, p. 55, pi. ix, fig. 6 ; Pfr., Mon. 

 Hel. Viv., Ill, p. 303, 1853; Kuster in Chenin. Conch. Cab., ed. ii, Bulimus 

 No. 113, pi. 31, figs. 21-23. 



Bulimus [Nasiotus) chemnitzioides Pfr., Vers. Malak. Blatt., p. 160, 1855. 



Bulimulus ( Omphalostvla) chemnitzioides H. & A. Ads., Gen. Rec. Moll., ii, 

 p. 161, 1855. 



Bulimulus (Pleuropyrgus) chemnitzioides Martens in Albers Heliceen, ed. ii, 

 p. 221, 1860; Pfr., Nona. Hel. Viv., p. 254, 1881 ; Eeibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 12, t. 

 ii, fig. 4; Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, p. 381, 1893. 



Bulimulus (Pleuropyrgus) lima Reibisch, Isis, 1892, p. 13, t. ii, fig. 5. 



On Chatham Island, at 300-600 feet elevation, with B. perspec- 

 thus Pfr., on rocks and under stones, Wolf; on the leaves of plants 

 at 1,600 feet elevation, near the southwest end of Chatham Island, 

 Dr. Baur; also Kellett, Habel and the U. S. Fish Commission. 



The younger specimens named lima by Reibisch though appar- 

 ently differing somewhat in form, appear to grade directly into the 

 others. This species sometimes shows a small but distinct parietal 

 tooth or callosity, but this is quite exceptional. 



Jaw almost membranous, thin, light horn-colored, slightly arcu- 

 ate, of almost equal height throughout, low, wide, with blunt ends 

 and margins bluntly denticulated by the broad ends of the ribs ; 

 anterior surface with about 20 broad, flat ribs, reinforced at their 

 outer edges and separated by very narrow interstices. 



Radula long and narrow, formula about 1 ; rhachidian 



22+8-8+22 

 tooth tricuspid as in the other species ; perfect laterals about eight 

 on each side, bicuspid ; marginals low, wide, with one inner long 

 bicuspid cutting point and a shorter wide outer cutting edge broken 

 up iuto three or more denticles. 



The specimens examined anatomically were so much shrunken 

 by the alcohol and had genitalia so little developed that they could 

 not be satisfactorily dissected. This species is connected so closely 

 by such forms as B. Reibischi and B. rugiferus with the typical 

 Ncesioti that it is obvious that they should be referred to the same 

 section of the genus. The nepionic whorls are usually decorticated 

 and smooth, but when perfect, show the usual transverse ribbing. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Bulimulus (Naesiotus) Habeli Stearns. 



Bulimulus { Pleuropyrgus) Habeli (Stearns MS.) Dall, Nautilus, Jan., 1892, 

 p. 99; Stearns, Nautilus, Dec, 1892, p. 86; Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 xvi, pp. 382, 428, 1893. 



Bulimulus {Pleuropyrgus) ter^ra Reibisch, Isis, (Oct.) 1892, p. 14, t. ii, fig. 

 3. 



Chatham Island, Habel, U. S. Fish Commission Steamer Alba- 

 tross and Dr. G. Baur, under stones near the shore, at the southwest 

 end of the island (typical form) ; Chatham Island, under stones and 

 on mossy rocks in the moist region, 900-2,000 feet above the sea, 

 "Wolf fide Reibisch (J5. terebra). 



The specimen of B. terebra submitted by Herr Reibisch is slightly 

 larger, more dull colored and has a more evident umbilicus than the 

 typical specimens of Habeli which were obtained in a more unfavor- 

 able station, but the differences do not appear to be sufficient to be 

 worthy of a specific name, at least judging from the material I have 

 been able to study. No specimens of B. Habeli contaiuing the soft 

 parts have been received by me. The nepionic whorls are usually 

 decorticated and smooth, but when perfect show extremely fine 

 transverse ribbing. In the single specimen I have seen of the 

 variety terebra Reibisch the nepionic ribbing is coarser and more 

 evident. 



Papa (Leucocheila !) Wolfii Miller. Plate XVII, fig. 14. 



Pupa {Leucochila) Wolfii Miller, Reibisch, Isis, 1S92, pt. 3, p. 15, t. ii, fig. 



Pupa {Leucochila ) munita Reibisch, Isis, 1892, pt. 3, p. 15, t. ii, fig 9. 

 ? Papa Eyriesii Drouet, Essai Moll. Terr, (.iuvane Francaise, p. 71, pi. ii, fig. 

 16-17, 1859. 



Guayaquil, Ecuador, Wolf, fide Reibisch, op. cit. ; Albemarle 

 Island, on bushes near the shore, "Wolf; on bones of dead tortoises, 

 Albemarle Island, Baur ; on the trunks of trees, Ilet-la-Mer, French 

 Guiana, Drouet. 



Several specimens of a minute Pupa were obtained by Dr. Baur 

 adhering to dry bones picked up on Albemarle Island. According 

 to their age these show the following denticles in the aperture : 1. 

 On the body is a deeply grooved prominent tooth which in some 

 specimens is so far bifid as to appear like two slender teeth close to 

 each other, this is present on all the specimens ; 2. On the pillar, 

 well up near the body a small but very distinct horizontal lamella, 

 present in all specimens, but less developed in the younger ones ; 3. 

 Well within the lip is a series of small short denticles side by side, 

 longer in the direction of the whorls ; the first almost vertically he- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



low the parietal denticle is small, the next to the right, close to it, 

 is higher, slightly bifid at the tip when most completely developed 

 and longer in an antero-posterior direction than either of the others ; 

 the third is small like the first, and the fourth and last (in any of 

 the specimens seen) is still smaller and appears only after the others 

 are well developed. The figure of P. Wolfii given by Reibisch 

 shows the parietal, columellar and three basal denticles ; in the fig- 

 ure of P. munita the fourth basal and another denticle in the angle 

 between the body and the pillar have appeared. Drouet's figure of 

 P. Eyriesii has the parietal tooth represented as double, while the 

 columellar tooth is present only two of the basal denticles appear. 

 All these figures are poor and the resemblance between them, allow- 

 ing for bad drawing, are so close and the differences between the ac- 

 tual specimens I have studied are so great, that I am strongly inclined 

 to believe they will all prove to be the stages of one and the same 

 species. Even Reibisch's P. clausa which is somewhat smaller than 

 those above referred to, shows differences of denticulation from P. 

 Wolfii not greater than are observable in the different ages of some 

 North American species. 

 Pupa (Leucocheila 1) clausa Reibisch. 



Pupa (Leucochila) clausa Reibisch, Isis, 1892, pt. 3, p. 15, pi. II, fig. 10. 



On bushes near the sea, Indefatigable Island, Wolf. 



This form differs from the most fully developed P. Wolfii in hav- 

 ing one more denticle on the pillar near its base, in having the 

 other teeth more strongly developed, and in being slightly smaller. 

 According to Reibisch it has 4f whorls, while P. Wolfii-munita has 

 from 5 to 5£ turns. It is so difficult to fix on a common point in 

 settling where the first apical whorl ends, that I do not put much 

 confidence in differences of less than a full turn. It can only be 

 decided by study of a large number of specimens whether this spe- 

 cies is distinct from the P. Wolfii or not, and at present the material 

 is not accessible. 



Herr Reibisch wrote in February, 1894, that he had three or four 

 well differentiated species of Papa from different islands, but, so far, 

 I have not noticed any publication of them, and have not been able 

 for eighteen months to obtain any information as to the whereabouts 

 of Herr Reibisch himself. 

 ? Trochomorpha Bauri Dall. Plate XV, figs. 8, 9. 



Zonites {Hyalinia ) Bauri Dall, Nautilus, V, p. 98, Jan., 1892. 



South Albemarle Island, on weathered bones of tortoises, Dr. 

 Baur. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The single specimen of this interesting form is not quite adult, 

 and the slight angulation at the periphery may be lost in the fully 

 mature shell. The fine spiral striation which characterizes the spe- 

 cies recalls that of several Polynesian species. The close resem- 

 blance to T. calculosa Gould, of Tahiti, leads to the query as to 

 whether the unnamed " Helix " collected by Darwin, and said to be 

 identical with a Tahitian species not named, may not have been this 

 species. It can only provisionally be referred to the group Trocho- 

 morpha, as the animal is unknown. 



Conulus galapaganus Dall. Plate XV, fig. 11. 



Conulus galapaganus Dall, Nautilus, VII, p. 55, Sept., 1893. 



Under leaves at 1,600 feet elevation, southwest end of Chatham 

 Island, Dr. Baur. 



This species is close to C. fulvus but has five whorls to four in a 

 specimen of fulvus of the same diameter. It has a very well marked 

 suture and the whorls between the sutures are more convex than in 

 fulvus. The height is greater in C. galapaganus in proportion to the 

 number of whorls. It seems to differ from C. fulvus and related 

 forms by its smaller size, very brilliant surface, inflated whorls and 

 number of turns. It has no spiral striation like that of T. Bauri, 

 and, in short, seems like an elevated, dwarfed inflated C. fulvus. 



Vitrea chathamensis Dall. Plate XV, figs. 3, 10. 



Hyalinia thathameyisis Dall, Nautilus, VII, p. 54, 1893. 



On dead leaves at an elevation of 1,600 feet, southwest end of 

 Chatham Island, Dr. Baur. 



This is a small, thin, straw colored shell, much like T'. arborea 

 Say, depressed, with four rounded whorls, a distinct suture, the 

 polished surface sculptured with numerous slightly flexuous radial 

 indented lines ; the umbilicus is deep, exhibiting all the volutions, 

 but rather narrow. The aperture is like that of H. arborea. 



Succinea Bettii Smith. Plate XV, fig. 6. 



Succinea Bettii Smith, P. Z. S., 1877, p. 72, t. xi. fig. 8. 

 Succinea Wolfi Reibisch, Isis, 1892, pt. 3, p. 16, t. 2. tig. 12 a-b. 



Charles Island, H. M. S. Peterel, U. S. Fish Commission ; James 

 Island at James Bay, Dr. G. Baur ; Chatham Island, 900-2,000 feet 

 in the moist region, among moss and stones and on herbage, Wolf; 

 South Albemarle Island? on dry bones of turtles, young specimens 

 only, Dr. Baur. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



This species very closely resembles the British S. putris, the spec- 

 imen figured by Jeffreys in his British Conchology might almost be 

 interchanged with a specimen from James Island as regards its gen- 

 eral form. The Galapagos shell, however, has a less even surface, 

 being somewhat irregularly wrinkled with a dull unpolished aspect. 

 Succinea brevior Smith. Plate XV, fig. 4 ; Plate XVI, fig. 8 ; Plate XVII, fig. 9. 



Succinea Bettii var. brevior Smith, P. Z. S., 1877, p. 77. 

 Succinea brevior T>al\, Nautilus, VII, p. 56, Sept., 1893. 



Found near Black Beach, Charles Island, at about 1,000 feet ele- 

 vation on the stems of shrubbery ; the stems were of a grayish-brown 

 color, covered with small lichens, Dr. Baur. 



Jaw arched, high, thick, horn-colored, the ends acuminate and 

 recurved; anterior surface without ribs, cutting edge with a median 

 projection ; upper interior margin with a quadrate insertion plate as 

 usual in the genus. 



Radula long and narrow, formula 1 ; rhachidian tooth 



24+6-6+24 

 tricuspid ; on each side six bicuspid laterals, each with the usual 

 thinning on the lower edge of the base of attachment ; marginals 

 low and wide, the inner cusp larger and longer, bifid, the outer 

 cusp with several denticles ; the extreme laterals lose the distinction 

 between the cusps and show a somewhat irregularly serrate cutting 

 edge. 



This species closely resembles a small specimen of S. obliqua Say, 

 its color is less ruddy and paler than in S. producta, but the apex is 

 even more vividly rosy ; the axis is pervious in the last whorl, but 

 not as in S. Bettii clear to the summit of the shell. It is readily 

 distinguished from either of the other Galapagos species by its short 

 rather blunt spire. 



Succinea producta Reibisch. Plate XV, fig. 7 ; Plate XVI, fig. 10 ; Plate XVII, fig. 5. 



Succinea ( Tapada) Wolfi var. producta Reibisch, Isis, 1892, pt. 3, p. 16, t. ii, 

 fig. 12 c. 



Chatham Island, 900-2,000 feet elevation, in moist places among 

 moss and stones, Wolf; southwest end of Chatham Island, on damp 

 lava rocks of a blackish color often covered with very small lichens, 

 Dr. Baur. 



Jaw light born-color, strong, thick, high, strongly arched with 



the ends rapidly shortened to a point, the interior upper margin 



with the usual quadrate insertion plate ; anterior surface without 



ribs, the cutting edge with a short, wide, mesial projection. 



Radula long and narrow, formula about 1 ; rhachidian 



26+14-14+26 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896, 



tooth tricuspid ; 14 perfect laterals with two rather widely separated 

 cusps, the outer shorter ; the lower edge of the base of attachment 

 thinned out as usual in the genus ; marginals low, wide, bicuspid, 

 the cusps subdivided into minor denticles giving a serrate look to the 

 outer marginals. 



This species is of a reddish-yellow color, with the apex of a pro- 

 nounced rosy tint, the surface somewhat rough as in *S'. Bettii, from 

 which it differs by its more produced spire and the manner in which 

 the outer lip is bent over so as to reach the body whorl vertically 

 instead of obliquely. Only young, and very few even of the young r 

 are quite as slender as the one figured by Reibisch. The outer lip 

 in fully adult specimens is more expanded than in & Bettii, both 

 have a gyrate and pervious axis, but the S. Bettii has it more open 

 than the other species. 



Succinea corbis Dall. Plate XV, fig. 5. 



Succinea corbis Dall, Nautilus, VII, p. 55, Sept., 1893. 



South Albemarle Island, on dry bones of turtles, Dr. Baur. 



Shell small, of two and a half whorls, to which a black mould ad- 

 heres with tenacity. The first whorl and a half are salmon-pink in 

 the adult, but in the young of that size are pale amber colored. 

 The shell resembles 8. producta in form, but is smaller and has a 

 more contracted aperture, it is instantly recognized when examined 

 with a good lens, by its surface, which is minutely shagreened all 

 over with an excessively fine network of closely reticulated incised 

 lines. Alt. of shell 7, max. diam. 4*5, extreme length of aperture 4 

 mm. 



The remarkable sculpture is not visible to the naked eye except 

 as a sort of hoary bloom on the surface ; under a compound micro- 

 scope it looks like closely woven basket work. I have examined a 

 great many Succineas without finding any other species possessing 

 this character, but, from the description, S.solidula Pfr. from Christ- 

 mas Island, in the Indian Ocean, must have somewhat such a sur- 

 face. Mr. Edgar A. Smith (P. Z. S., 1887, p. 518) states that S. 

 solidula has "the texture of very fine linen, or minute criss-cross 

 lines," which fairly well describes the surface of S. corbis. S. soli- 

 dula exhibits the further peculiarity of having a slight but evident 

 internal thickening of the peristome, but as the specimens of S. cor- 

 bis are all evidently immature or not fully grown, they would show 

 nothing of such a character even if the fully adult possesses it. A 

 close examination of the black earthy substance with which the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



shells are nearly covered, leads to the suspicion that it is composed 

 of the execreta of the animal itself, as it is laid on in little sausage- 

 like or subcylindrical masses and attached by a dry substance, re- 

 calling the silvery streaks left by crawling slugs. 

 Leptinaria chathamensis Dall. Plate XVI, fig. 9 ; Plate XVII, fig. 16. 



Leptinaria chathamensis Dall, Nautilus, V, p. 98, 1892 ; Stearns, Proc. TJ. S. 

 Nat. Mus., xvi, pp. 418, 428, 1893. 



Bidimiilus (Pelecostoma) cymatoferns Reibisch, Isis, 1892, pt. 3, p. 14, t. ii, 

 fig. 7. 



Chatham Island, on ferns 1,600-2,000 feet above the sea, Dr. 

 Baur ; also on dry bones of tortoises, South Albemarle Island, Baur. 



Shell small, horn-colored, with a blunt apex and six rounded 

 whorls ; suture very distinct, surface polished, delicately marked 

 with lines of growth ; base rounded, relatively rather widely umbil- 

 icated ; aperture with the margin hardly thickened, rounded in 

 front and at the suture ; pillar broad, thin ; body with a single ele- 

 vated, thin, sharp lamina, extending spirally inward from a point a 

 little behind the peristome and nearly equidistant from the inner 

 and outer lips; alt. of shell 3.0, max. diam. 1.6 mm. 



Analogous forms are found in the mountains of the Panamic 

 region and on several of the Pacific Islands. As all the American 

 species are believed to belong to Leptinaria, as distinguished from 

 Tomatellina, I have no hesitation in referring this species to the 

 American type. The radula of this form is extremely minute and 

 difficult to find w T hen boiled out in liquor potassse. I sacrificed sev- 

 eral specimens without success, and the tooth figured is from a 

 sketch by Mr. Binney. His slide has deteriorated so much in keep- 

 ing that I have been unable to find the radula upon it after long 

 scrutiny. 

 Helicina (Idesa) nesiotica Dall. Plate XV, figs. 1, 2 ; Plate XVII, fig. 12. 



Helicina {Idesa) nesiotica Dall, Nautilus, v, p. 97, Jan., 1892 ; Stearns, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., xvi, p. 418, 1893. 



Helicina Wolfi Reibisch, Isis, 1892, pt. 3, p. 17, t. ii, fig. 13; Stearns, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., xvi, p. 416, 1893. 



On the leaves of plants 1,600 feet in elevation, near the S.-W. end 

 of Chatham Island, Dr. Baur; Albemarle Island, Keibisch in litt. 



Shell small, depressed, with rounded periphery, base moderately 

 convex, and peristome not thickened nor reflected ; epidermis of a 

 bright reddish chestnut, polished, but with obvious regular incre- 

 mental lines ; base with a thin white callus merging into the lower 

 lip without notch or angle ; spire depresssd, suture very distinct, 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



not channelled ; operculum smooth, whitish, angulated only at the 

 upper extreme; alt. of shell 2.3, max. diam. 3.3 mm. 



This was the first species of the family to be reported from the 

 Galapagos. The type is not known from the west slope of the 

 Andes, though it would be rash to infer that it may not yet be found 

 there ; it is present in the Panamic province. Though first obtained 

 from Chatham Island Herr Reibisch writes that he has now received 

 examples from the Albemarle Island. 



An examination of the radula shows points of interest. The rha- 

 chidian tooth has a distinct cusp which is wanting in the Helicinas 

 heretofore figured ; there are one major and three minor laterals. 

 The inner pair are channelled on the back and have a simple out- 

 wardly directed cusp ; the next is smaller, with the cusp pointing 

 inward. The major lateral appears very differently according to 

 the position in which it is viewed. In the normal position the cusp 

 is large, short with about seven subequal denticles, the base is plain 

 and without accessory projections ; the uncini are numerous, close- 

 set, simple and very small. Formula 1 



Aurioula stagnalis Orbigny. 



Auricula stagnalis Orbigny, Mag. de Zool., 1835, p. 23, No. 3. 

 Auricula granulina Anton, Verz., p. 48, 1839. 

 Auricula papUlifera Kiister, Auric, p. 25, t. 3, figs. 9, 10, 1844. 

 Ellobimn granulinum II. & A. Adams, P. Z. S., 1N.">4. p. 7. 

 Ellobium stagnate H. & A. Adams, Gen. Rec. Moll., ii., p. 238 ; Wimmer, 

 Sitzb. k. Akad. Wiss., Wien, Bd. lxxx, p. 44, No. 87, 1879. 



Panama and Guayaquil, Orbigny and Adams ; Tumaco Island, 



Cuming ; Bindloe Island, Habel fide Wimmer. 



Melampus trilineatus C. B. Adams. 



Auricula trilineata Adams. Pan. Shells, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist, N. Y., Y, pp. 

 43G, 543, 1852. 



Melampus trilineatus Pfeiffer, Mon. Auric, p. 44, 1856 ; Wimmer, Sitzb. k. 

 Akad. Wiss., Wien, lxxx, p. 44, 1879. 



Panama, Adams; Hood Island, Habel, fide Wimmer. 



Tralia panamensis C. B. Adams. 



Auricula panamensis Adams, Pan. Shells, Ann. Lve. Nat. Hist-, N. Y.. Y, 

 pp. 433, 542, 1852. 



Tralia panamensis II. & A. Adams, P. Z. S., 1854, p. 10 ; Wimmer. i 

 p. 45,1879. 



Hood and Charles Islands, Habel, fide Wimmer; Panama and 



Taboga, C. B. Adams; Cocos Island, U.S. Fish Commission. 



Genus PEDIPES (Adanaon) Soopoli, 



Pedipcs (Adanson) Scopoli, lntr. Hist. Nat., p. 392, 1777. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



Pedipes angulatus C. B. Adams. 



Pedipes angnlata C. B. Adams, Pan. Shells, Ann. Lye Nat. Hist., N. Y., V, 

 pp. 431, 542, 1852. 



Pedipes angulatus Pfeiffer, Novit. Conch., I, p. 24, t. 6, figs. 26-28, 1854 ; 

 Wimmer, op. cit., p. 45, 1879. 



Panama, Adams ; Bindloe Island, Galapagos, Habel, fide Wim- 

 mer. 



Genus SIPHONABIA Sowerby.12 



Siphonaria gigas Sowerby ; 



Siphonaria gigas Sowerby, Tank. Cat., p. vi, No. 808, 1825; Reeve, Conch. 

 Icon., Siphonaria, pi. 1, fig. 3. 



Siphonaria characteristica Reeve, op. cit., pi. 2, figs. 8 a-b. 



Charles Island, U. S. Fish Commission ; Peru, Cocos Island, Pan- 

 ama and north to the Gulf of California. 



Genus WILLIAMIA Monterosato. 



Ancylus sp. ( Gussoni) Costa, Cat., p. 20, 1829; Scacchi, Cat., p. 18, 1836. 



Patella sp. Phil., Enum. Moll. Sicil., I, p. 255, 1836; II, p. 84, 1844. 



Nacella sp. Cpr., Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1864, I, p. 474, No. 15; Cooper, 

 Geogr. Cat. Moll., Cala., p. 23, 1867. 



Siphonaria (Liriola) sp. Dall, Am. Journ. Conch., YI, p. 37, 1870. 



Pihscus subg. Allerya Morch, Journ. de Conchyl., Vol. XXV, p. 210, 1877. 

 Not Allerya Bourguignat, Atti Accad. Sci. Let. ed. Arti. di Palermo, VI, pp. 

 1-7, 1876. 



Scutulum Monterosato, Ann. Mus. Civ., Genova, IX, p. 427, 1877. 



Not Scutulum Tournouer, Bull. Soc. Geol. de France, 1869 {Echinidce). 



Lirtola sp. Dall, Journ. de Conchyl., XXYI, p. 68, 1878. 



Anisomyon ? Dall, Journ. de Conchyl., XXVII, p. 287, 1879 ; (? Meek. Am. 

 Journ. Sci. & Arts, 2, XXIX, p. 33, pi. 1, 1860). 



Gadinia sp. Jeffreys, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1870, p. 11. 



Williamia Monterosato, Nom. Conch. Medit., p. 150, 1884. 



Umbrella sp. Cossmann, Cat. Coq. Fos. env. Paris, IV, p. 326, 1891. 



Parascutum Cossmann, Cat. Coq. Fos. env. Paris, V, p. 78, 1892. 



Type W. Gussoni (Costa) of the Mediterranean and Azores; 

 other species are the W. Krebsii Morch, West Indies, W. vernalis 

 Dall, Monterey, Cala., W. peltoides Cpr., of the Gulf of California 

 and south to the Galapagos. 



The synonymy of this interesting little genus of Sip honariidce had 

 become so complicated that it seemed best to take this opportunity 

 of clearing it up. The wide distribution of the species is partly due 

 to their habit of perching on floating sea-weeds. 



12 Siphonaria scutellum Deshayes, was referred to the Galapagos Islands by 

 Carpenter, owing to a confusion between its true locality, Chatham Island. New 

 Zealand, with the Galapagos Chatham Island. This species according to 

 Deshayes is identical with S. obliquata Sby. described sixteen years earlier in 

 the Tankerville Catalogue. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Williamia peltoides Carpenter. 



Nacella peltoides Carpenter, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1864, i, p. 474, No. 15; 

 Suppl. Rep. Brit. Assoc, 1863, pp. 418, 545. 



Nacella subspiralis Carpenter, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., iii, p. 213, 1866 ; Suppl. 

 Rep. Brit. Assoc, 1863, pp. 612, 640. 



Siphonaria (Liriola) peltoides Dall, Am. Journ. Conch., vi, p. 37, 1870; 

 Journ. de Conchyl., xxvi, p. 68, Jan., 1878. 



Anisomyon peltoides Dall, Journ. de Conchyl., xxvii, p. 288, Oct., 1879. 



Nacella subspiralis Wimmer, Sitzb. k. Akad. Wiss., Wien, lxxx, p. 41, 

 1879. 



Siphonaria ( Williamia) peltoides Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvi, p- 

 ;384, 1893. . 



Chatham, Charles and Hood Islands, dead on the beach, Dr. 

 Habel ; northward to Panama, Mazatlan, Cape St. Lucas, San Diego 

 and the Santa Barbara Islands, California. The variety vernalis 

 Dall, which will require to be specifically separated from peltoides, 

 extends from the Santa Barbara Islands northward to Monterey, 

 Purissima, Lobitas and Crescent City, California. It is much larger 

 than either of the others. 



The Nacella subspiralis and peltoides of Carpenter are undoubt- 

 edly conspecific with the Galapagos shell, which from its perching 

 habit on fronds of Laminaria may be widely distributed by ocean 

 currents. The well known Ancijlus Gussoni of Costa belonging to 

 the South European fauna is congeneric, and from the shells alone 

 it is doubtful if the species could be separated. The W. Krebsii of 

 Morch is extremely similar, and it is possible that all three should 

 be specifically united, but until the anatomy has been compared it 

 is probably best to keep them distinct. I figured the dentition and 

 jaw of W. vernalis and IF. Gussoni in the Journal de Conclujliologie 

 in 1878 and 1879, showing specific differences between them, but 

 the West Indian and West American tropical forms have not yet 

 been examined. 



M. Cossmann has described a species, W. Raincourti, from the 



Eocene of Chaumont, Paris Basin, which differs from the recent 



species in being radially striate'; this seems to partially bridge the 



gap between the latter and the upper Cretaceous Anisomyon. 



Onchidium Lesliei Stearns. 



Onckidium Lesliei Stearns. Nautilus, VI. p. 87, Dec, 1892; Proc I". B. 

 Nat. Mus.. XVI, NO. 942, p. 383, pi. 51, figs. 2, 3, 1 - 



Living between tide marks on Charles and Albemarle Islands, U. 

 S. Fish Commission. 



Dr. Stearns' description is as follows : 



" Form rounded ovate, nearly as broad a? long. Dorsum coria- 

 ceous, nearly black, shiny, closely irregularly reticulated with finely 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



incised lineation, and otherwise characterized by somewhat distant, 

 flatly rounded papilla?. Underside dingy, yellowish white ; margin 

 of mantle wide, nearly smooth ; edge of same simple. Anal open- 

 ing posterior near edge of mantle and somewhat produced. Respir- 

 atory orifice smaller, in median line with and in front of anus ; sex- 

 ual orifice anterior, on the right side under the edge of the large 

 oral hood or collar ; labial palpi thin, largely expanded. Dimen- 

 sions : Length 37.5 ; breadth 31.5 millimeters. These proportions 

 vary slightly in different individuals." 



Onchidella Steindachneri Semper. 



Onchidella Steindachneri Semper, Arch. Phil. Bd. Ill, Heft. VI, p. 295, 

 1883; Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVI, p. 384, pi. 5l, figs. 4, 5, 1893. 



Charles Island, Habel; Charles and Albemarle Islands, between 

 tide-marks, U. S. Fish Commission. 



Dr. Stearns' remarks are as follows : 



" A well marked species ; edge of mantle prettily fringed on the 

 ■under side with rather regularly placed trifoliate processes ; dorsum 

 entirely covered with closely set, rounded, granular papilla?, which 

 also cover the surface of the wide mantle margin beneath, up to the 

 edge of the creeping disk. Color dark grayish or smoky black 

 above ; dingy whitish on the under side. Anal orifice posterior, 

 central just behind the end of the creeping disk? Respiratory ori- 

 fice on the right side near the vent ; sexual orifice anterior near the 

 tentacle or oral appendage, under the edge on the right side. Length 

 about 20, breadth about 17 millimeters. These proportions vary 

 somewhat in different specimens. Some allowance must be made for 

 the contraction caused by the alcohol in both the above and 0. 

 Lesliei. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



Sowerby, George Brettingham. Conchological Illustrations, 

 Bulinus, parts 31, 34, 35 and 142, 1833-41. London, G. B. Sowerbv, 

 1841,8°. 



This work was issued in parts and when completed the letter 

 press, or portions of it, was reprinted and the whole issued as a vol- 

 ume dated 1841. The parts in the copies which I have seen do not 

 have any dates, but Pfeiffer cites the list of Bulinus as 1833 (Mon. 

 Hel. Viv., i, p. xxxii, 1848). It is probable that part 142, contain- 

 ing B, rugulosus was issued in 1839, but the plates containing the 

 other Galapagos species may be as early as 1833. 



Sowerby, George Brettingham. Descriptions of new species 

 of shells collected by Hugh Cuming. Proc. Zool. Society of Lon- 

 don, 1833, part i, pp. 72-74. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



This article contains descriptions of several species of Bulimulus 

 afterward figured in the Conchological Illustrations. 



Broderip, William John. Description of new species of shells 

 collected by Hugh Cuming. Proc. Zool. Society of London, 1832, 

 p. 125. 



Though this is the first reference to Cuming's Galapagos land 

 shells, only one species, B. nux, is described from Charles Island. 



Pfeiffer, Dr. Ludwig. Description of thirty new species of 

 Helicea belonging to the collection of H. Cuming, Esq. Proc. Zool. 

 Society of London, 1846, pp. 28-29. 



This article describes two new species of Bulimulus collected by 

 Charles Darwin at the Galapagos Islands. 



Darwin, Charles. Journal of Researches into the Natural 

 History and Geology of the countries visited during the voyage of 

 H. M. S. Beagle round the world, under the command of Captain 

 Fitz Roy, R. N. New York, D. Appleton & Co., 1882, 8°. X, 519 

 pp. from the second English edition of 1860. See Chapter xvii, pp. 

 372-401, and especially the notes on mollusca, pp. 390-91. 



This celebrated work first appeared in parts 1844-45, and was 

 published by Murray. The " Zoology of the Beagle " edited by 

 Darwin, contains no reference to the mollusca collected. 



Forbes, Prof. Edward. On the species of mollusca collected 

 during the surveying voyages of the Herald and Pandora by Cap- 

 tain Kellett, R. N. 0. B., and Lieutenant Wood, R. N. Proc. Zool. 

 Society of London, 1850, pp. 53-56. 



In this article the Bulimulus chemniizioides and achatellin us 

 Forbes, upon which two subgenera have subsequently been founded, 

 are described and other species collected at the Galapagos Islands are 

 enumerated with comments. All are said to have been collected on 

 Chatham Island. 



Albers, Johann Christian. Die Heliceen, nach natiirlicher 

 Verwandtschaft systematisch geordnet. Berlin, Enslin, 1850, 8°, 

 262 pp. 



In this volume, pp. 162-3, the Galapagos Bulimuli are grouped 

 together under the name of Ncesiotus. In the second, posthumous 

 edition, (Leipzig, Englemann, 1860) issued under the supervision and 

 revision of von Martens, Nesiotes is substituted for the earlier name, 

 and two of the species set off into new sections ; for ehemnitzloides the 

 name Pleuropyrgus is proposed, and Forbes' achatellinus is removed to 

 Buliminus (where it does not belong) and made the type of the sub- 

 genus Mhaphiellus, following Pfeiffer (Vers, einer Auordnuug der 

 Heliceen, Malak. Blatt, ii, pp. 112-160, 1856). 



Reeve, Lovell. Conchologia Iconica, v, Mon. Bulimus, 1848- 

 50. London, Reeve, Ben ham &, Reeve, 1850, 4to. 



Most of the species described at that time from the Galapagos are 

 more or less accurately figured in this work. 



Carpenter, Dr. Philip Pearsall. Report on the present 

 state of our knowledge with regard to the mollusca of the west coast 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



of North America. Report of the British Association for the Ad- 

 vancement of Science for 1856. London, Tavlor & Francis, 1857, 

 8°. 



The mollusks of the Galapagos Islands are discussed and enum- 

 erated pp. 358-62. These include twenty species of Pulmonates. 



Smith, Edgar A. Account of the Zoological Collection made 

 during the visit of H. M. S. Peterel to the Galapagos Islands. Mol- 

 lusca. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1877, pp. 72-3. 



Three of the already known species are enumerated, and Sitccinea 

 Bettii Smith with its variety Lrevior are described as new. 



Ancey, C. F. Nouvelles contributions malacologiques, vi ; 

 Etudes sur la faune malacolosrique des iles Galapagos. Bull. Soc. 

 Malac. de France, iv, pp. 293-299, July, 1887. 



A new species and several new varieties are described and the 

 fauna briefly discussed. 



Wimmer, August. Zur Conchylien-Fauna der Galapagos In- 

 sein. Sitzber. der k. Akad. der Wissenschaften, Wien Bd. lxxx, 

 pp. 1-50, Dec, 1879. 



This paper, based chiefly on the shells collected by Dr. Habel, 

 refers to two species of Bulimulus and four Auriculidce, the latter all 

 new to the fauna. 



Dall, William Healey. On some types new to the fauna of 

 the Galapagos Islands. Nautilus, Jan., 1892, Vol. v, pp. 97-99. 



In this short article the presence of Pupa is announced, and Hel- 

 icina (Ide*a) ne*iotica, Leptinarin chathamensis, Zonites {Hyalinia) 

 Bauri and Bulimulus (Pleuropyrgus) Habeli (Stearns, MS.) are 

 described from collections made by Drs. Habel and Baur. 



Reibisch, Paul. Die conchyliologische Fauna der Galapagos 

 Inseln. Abh. Ges. Isis in Dresden, iii, pp. 1-20, taf. i-ii, October, 

 1892. 



This paper discusses the land shells of the group and is chiefly 

 based upon the collections of Dr. Wolf, Government geologist of 

 Ecuador, though referring to collections made by others. A large 

 number of forms supposed to be new are described and figured. 



Stearxs, Dr. R. E. C. Scientific results of explorations by the 

 TJ. S. Fish Commission Steamer Albatross, No. xxv. Report on the 

 mollusk fauna of the Galapaeos Islands with descriptions of new 

 species. Proceedings of the U. S. Nat. Mus., xv, No. 942, pp. 353- 

 450, pi. 50-52, August, 1893. 



This important paper discusses the mollusk fauna of the islands 

 at large, both land and marine forms, especially those of shallow 

 water and the shores. The deeper dredgings from the last expedi- 

 tion are not included and will be worked up later. References to 

 previous lists of the fauna are very full and the discussion of the 

 land shells includes some suggestions of serious importance. 



Dall, William Healey. Preliminary notice of new species of 

 land shells from the Galapagos Islands collected by Dr. G. Baur. 

 Nautilus, September, 1893, Vol. vii, pp. 52-56. 



30 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



In this article Bulimulus (Ncesiotus) duncanus, B. amastroides 

 Ancey var. Anceyi, B. jaeobi var. vermiculatus, B. olla, B. tortu- 

 ganus, B. Bauri, Hyalinia chathamensis, Conulus galapaganus and 

 Succinea corbis are described as new, and the relationship of the 

 Nwsioti to the North American Bulimuli of the type of serperastrus 

 is pointed out. 



Dall, AVilliam Healey. New species of land shells from the 

 Galapagos Islands. Nautilus, March, 1895, Vol. viii, pp. 126-7. 



Bulimulus (Nuzsiotus) Reibischi and B. Tanneri are described as 

 new. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



Note. — Since the figures are of different degress of magnification, 

 the length of each shell in millimeters follows the reference to each 

 figure. 



Plate XV. 



Helicina (Idesa) nesiotica Dall, base, lat. 3.7 mm. ; p. 451 . 

 Helicina (Idesa) nesiotica Dall, profile; p. 451. 

 Vitrea chathamensis Dall, base, lat. 3 mm. ; p. 448. 

 Succinea brevior Smith, alt. 12 mm. ; p. 449. 

 Succinea corbis Dall, alt. 7.0 mm. ; p. 450. 

 Succinea Bettii Smith, alt. 12 mm. ; p. 448. 

 Succinea products Reibisch, alt. 11.5 mm. ; p. 449. 

 Trochomorphu t Bauri Dall, alt. 1.5 mm.; p. 447. 

 Trochomorpha ? Bauri Dall, base, lat. 2.2 mm. ; p. 447. 

 Vitrea chathami nsis Dall, lat. 3 mm. ; p. 448. 

 Conulus galapaganus Dall, lat. 2.5 mm. ; p. 448. 

 Bulimulus Bauri Dall, alt. 10 mm. ; p. 441. 

 Jiu lint u / us curt ii.-< Reibisch, alt. 9.6 mm. ; p. 442. 

 Bulimulus canaliferus Reibisch, alt. 9.5 mm. ; p. 442. 

 Bulimulus sp. n., alt. 11.5 mm., from photograph ; p. 444. 

 Bulimulus amastroides Ancey, alt. 10 mm. ; p. 441. 



Plate XVI. 



Bulimulus nesioticus Dall, alt. 12 mm. ; p. 443. 

 Bulimulus olla Dall, alt. 15 nun.; p. 437. 

 Bulimulus planospira Ancey, alt. 19.25 mm.; p. 432. 

 Bulimulus Reibischi Dall, alt. 10.5 mm. ; p. 444. 

 Bulimulus Tanneri Dall, alt. 11 mm. j p. 438. 

 Genitalia of Bulimulus mix var. incrassatw Pfr. consider- 

 bly magnified; the male and female orifices (IX, X"> 

 open into a single vestibulum and an- separated here by 

 an accident of dissection ; I, albumen gland ; II, herma- 

 phoditic duct ; III, ovotestis; IV, oviduct or uterus ; V. 

 prostate; VI, retractor penis: VII. penis sue: VIII, 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



vas deferens; IX, male; and X, female orifice, accidentally 

 parted ; XI, duct of spermatheca ; XII, spermatheca. 

 From a drawing by W. G. Binney, Esq., p. 429. 



Fig. 7. Bulimulusrluncanus Dall, alt. 17.5 mm. ; p. 438. 



Fig. 8. Succinea brevior Smith, camera lucida outline of jaw, con- 

 siderably magnified ; p. 449. 



Fig. 9. Leptinaria chathamensis Dall, alt. 3.5 mm.; p. 451. 



Fig. 10. Sucdnea producta Reibisch, outline of jaw, magnified, from 

 camera lucida sketch ; p. 449. 



Fig. 11, 12, 13. Bulimulus Simrothi Reibisch (tortuganw Dall) 

 showing variation in individuals and character of surface ; 

 alts, respectively 12.25, 11.0 and 10.75 mm.; p. 440. 



Fig. 14. Bulimulus cinereus Reibisch, alt. 8.5 mm. ; p. 437. 



Plate XVII. 



Figures all drawn from camera lucida sketches. 

 Fig. 1. Jaw of Bulimulus rugulosus Sby., much magnified; p. 



431. 

 Fig. 2. Jaw of Bulimulus Simrothi Dall ; p. 440. 

 Fig. 3. Teeth of Bulimulus ventrosus Reibisch, central and inner 



lateral, 3a two extreme outer laterals or marginals ; p. 



434. 

 Fig. 4. Rhachidian and innermost lateral teeth of Bulimulus 



chemnitzioides Forbes ; 4a, three of the outermost laterals ; 



p. 445. 

 Fig. 5. Rhachidian, inner lateral and 5a, two outer lateral teeth 



of Succinea producta Reibisch ; p. 449. 

 Fig. 6. Rhachidian and adjacent laterals and 6a, one of the outer- 

 most laterals of Bulimulus unifasdatus Sby. ; p. 439. 

 Fig. 7. Rhachidian tooth and adjacent laterals and 7a, two outer 



laterals of Bulimulus Bauri Dall ; p. 441. 

 Fig. 8. Rhachidian tooth, adjacent laterals and 8a, two outer 



laterals of Bulimulus curtus Reibisch ; p. 442. 

 Fig. 9. Rhachidian tooth, adjacent lateral and 9a, two more mar- 

 ginal laterals of Succinea brevior Smith; p. 449. 

 Fig. 10. Rhachidian and two adjacent lateral teeth and 10a, an 



outer lateral and marginal tooth of Bulimulus nux var. 



incrassatus Pfr. ; p. 429. 

 Fig. 11. Jaw of Bulimulus unifasdatus Sby.; p. 439. 

 Fig. 12. Rhachidian tooth, laterals of one side and part of the 



uncini of Helicina ne-siotica Dall ; p. 451. 

 Fig. 13. Jaw of Bulimulus achatellinus Forbes; p. 428. 

 Fig. 14. Pupa Wolfii Miller {Bauri Dall, MS.) alt. 2.5 mm. ; p. 



446. 

 Fig. 15. Jaw of Bulimulus Bauri Dall ; p. 441. 

 Fig. 16. Single tooth of Leptinaria chathamensis Dall, from a 



sketch by AY. G. Biuney, much magnified ; p. 451. 




460 proceedings of the academy of [1896. 



August 4. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled " Kew and Interesting Eocene Mollusca of the 

 Gulf States," by Gilbert D. Harris, was presented for publication. 



August 11. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman, in the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



August 18. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman, in the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



August 25. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



Mr. Thomas Chalkley Palmer was elected a member. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 





ON THE HEMIPENES OF THE SATJRIA. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



In the course of preparation of a work on the scaled reptiles of 

 North America for the Smithsonian Institution, it has become nec- 

 essary to examine some neglected parts of the anatomy. This I 

 have recently done for the hemipenes of the Ophidia, with results 

 of considerable importance to the systematic indications. 1 In the 

 present paper I give the results of a similar investigation into the 

 corresponding part of the anatomy of the lizards. Very little at- 

 tention has been given to the subject hitherto, and our knowledge 

 up to 1856 s is thus summarized byStannius: "A duplication or 

 bifurcation of each organ is present in Lacerta and in Platydactylus 

 guttatus. The copulatory organs of the Chamaeleonidre are distin- 

 guished by their shortness. In various Varanidae which have been 

 investigated the internal cavity (external when protruded) has 

 transverse concentric folds. A fissure interrupts these folds so that 

 they are not complete annuli. The extremity is acuminate and ex- 

 pands at the base, forming a kind of glans." 



In 1870 3 J. E. Gray describes and figures this organ of Varanus 

 heraldicus, giving the best illustration that I know of. Besides 

 these references I know of nothing later. 



As was to have been anticipated, I have found these organs to 

 correspond with the rest of the structure, and to furnish invaluable 

 aids to the determination of affinities among the Sauria. Reference 

 to them cannot be omitted henceforth in cases where the other 

 characters render the question of affinity uncertain. 



In the Sauria the male intromittent organ or hemipenis, presents 

 much variety of structure, showing some parallels to the correspond- 

 ing part in the snakes. It is, however, rarely spinous, as is so gen- 

 erally the case in the Ophidia, the only spinous forms being, so far 

 as I have examined, the American Diploglossinas and genera allied 

 to Cophias. The higher Sauria have the apical parts modified as 



1 Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, 1S95, p. 187. 



2 Zootomie der Amphibien, p. 266. 



3 Annals Magaz. Nat. History, 1870, VII, p. 283. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



in the Ophidia, by the presence of calyculi. Such are characteris- 

 tic of the Rhiptoglossa and Pachyglossa. The Nyctisaura possess 

 the same feature. The Diploglossa, Helodermatoidea and Theca- 

 glossa have the organ flounced, the flounces often pocketed or 

 repand on the margin. In the Leptoglossa we have laminae only; 

 in the Tiida? mostly transverse, and in the Scincidae mostly longi- 

 tudinal. In various genera terminal papilla? are present. The 

 organ may be simple or bifurcate or merely bilobate. I have not 

 met with the case so common in Ophidia, where the sulcus spermati- 

 cus is bifurcate and the organ undivided. 



The structures of the hemipenis have a constant systematic value. 

 As in the Ophidia, the value differs with the character, but it varies 

 from generic to superfamily in rank. 



In the Chamaeleonida? the greater part of the surface of the hem- 

 ipenis is coarsely calyculate, generally in a transvere direction. 

 There are remarkable papilla? at the apex, which differ in the differ- 

 ent forms. In C. pardalis there is a kind of membranous apron 

 proximad of the papilla? which presents an apex proximad opposite 

 to the sulcus spermaticus. In C. vulgaris and C. gracilis the papil- 

 la? are erect, laminiform and transverse and serrate on the edges. 

 The principal pair have a few papillae in front of and behind them, 

 and in C. gracilis there is, behind these, on each side, an oval body 

 which is composed of three serrate lamina? packed obliquely together. 

 In C. gracilis the proximal lamina? are low and have a margin of 

 acute tubercles, and each serves as a collar to a much larger papilla. 

 The latter is largely free and tongue-shaped, with the apex proxi- 

 mad, and its flat external surface is covered with three or four rows 

 of conic papilla?. 



I have had the opportunity of examining the hemipenis of a 

 relatively small number of species of the Agamidae ; the surface is 

 generally calyculate. I have not found terminal papillae in the 

 genera TJromastix, Agama, Liolepis, Phyiignathus or Calotes. The 

 general construction is, that opposite the sulcus spermaticus is a 

 strong longitudinal welt. Near the apex this welt becomes adher- 

 ent to the side on which the sulcus runs, dividing the organ into two 

 apical portions. The sulcus bifurcates and passes along the base of 

 this partition. In Liolepis there are two welts enclosing a smooth 

 space between them. In Calotes cristatellus there is a lesser welt on 

 each side of the principal one. In all the genera the basal part is 

 smooth, and it is sometimes thrown into longitudinal folds. 






1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



I have examined the hemipenis in thirty species of the Iguanida? 

 of the following genera : Anolis, Xiphocercus, Polychrus, Basiliscus, 

 Ctenosaura, Cyclur a, Iguana, Corythophanes, Sauromalm, Crotaphy- 

 tus, Dipsosaurus, Sceloporus, Callisaurus, Holbrookia, Enyalioides, 

 Doryphorus, Microlophus, Uraniscodon and Phrynosoma. These 

 differ in the bifurcation of the organ, varying from undivided 

 (Cyclura, Iguana) to deeply bifurcate (Anolis, Doryphorus, Micro- 

 lophus, Uraniscodon). Other differences are seen in the number of 

 welts and their surface structure, and the distribution and size of the 

 calyces. Thus the calyces extend to the base in Anolis, but are 

 confined to the apex in Orotophytus. They exist in series only in 

 Cyclur a, Iguana, Ctenosaura, Corythophanes and Sauromalm. They 

 cover most of the organ in Sceloporus and Phrynosoma. The syste- 

 matic arrangement of the genera in accordance with the characters 

 is as follows : 



I. Calyces always present. 



A. Three welts, one opposite the sulcus spermaticus and one 

 parallel on each side of it transversely laminate : Cteno- 

 saura, CycluPvA, Iguana, Corythophanes, Sauroma- 

 lus, Crotaphytus. 



B. Three welts ; one opposite sulcus, the others on each side 

 of sulcus converging to median welt, and enclosing spaces 

 with it ; surfaces calyculate. 



s Median welt confluent proximad : Dipsosaurus, 

 Liocephalus, Phrynosoma. 

 s ^ Median welt projecting free proximad : Callisau- 

 rus, Holbrookia. 



C. No median welt ; lateral welt from sulcus : Sceloporus. 



D. A median, no lateral welts; calyculate. 



2 Not bifurcate ; welt wide : Enyalioides (calyces 

 coarse), 

 s a: Bifurcate ; welt long and narrow : Anolis (caly- 

 ces minute). 



E. No welts. 



= Deeply bifurcate; calyces confined to branches: 

 Microlophus, Uraniscodon, Doryphorus. 

 ^ x .Shortly bifurcate; calyces extending proximad of 

 branches : Basillscus. 



II. No calyces or welts. 



s Bifurcate ; surface coarsely wrinkled : Polych- 

 rus. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



In the genera Ctenosaura, Cyclura, Iguana, Sauromalus and 

 Enyalioides (laticeps) the organ is entire ; in the others it is bilobate 

 or bifurcate. 



Of the Nyctisaura I have examined the hemipenis in the genera 

 Thecadactylus, Platydactylus, Phyllodactylus and Gymnodactylus. 

 In these this organ is short and wide, appropriately to the fragility 

 of the tail. It is also more or less deeply divided into two branches. 

 The entire surface is calyculate, generally minutely so. In Thecadac- 

 tylus each fork has three strong welts. In Platydactylus there is a 

 welt opposite the sulcus which is very large in P. aegyptiacus, and 

 divides, sending a half into each branch. In Gymnodactylus pul- 

 chellus the welts are not so heavy, below the bifurcation is a welt 

 which encloses a circular area which is incomplete proximad. In 

 Eublepharis the hemipenis is closely similar to that of the Gecconidre. 

 It is short and deeply bifurcate; it has a single prominent welt. 

 The surface of this is smooth, but the remainder of the surface is 

 calyculate. 



Of the Zonuridas I have only seen the hemipenis of Z. cordylus. 

 It is short and swollen, so that the spiral structure is accentuated ; 

 there is a rigid welt opposite the sulcus, which leaves a triangular 

 space at one side proximad, which is finely calyculate. On the oppo- 

 site side of the welt distad, is a wide space with radiating lamina? 

 from a smooth center. The presence of calyculi noted is excep- 

 tional in the Diplogossa, and indicates approximation to the Pachy- 

 glossa as far as it goes. 



In the Anguida? the hemipenis presents well marked characters, 

 which distinguish the genera and perhaps the subfamilies. In 

 Celestus the extremity carries an osseous spicule of relatively large 

 size. Distad of the flounces are more (C stenurus) or less (C. 

 badius) numerous longitudinal series of recurved osseous spines 

 which are longer near the sulcus spermaticus. In C. stenurus the 

 flounces are apiculate at regular intervals : organ undivided. In 

 the Gerrhonotinos the flounces are cupped and continue to the apex 

 without spines ; in Barissla and Gerrhonotus the organ is bifurcate, 

 in Elgaria simple. In Anguisa welt on each side of the sulcus has 

 tubercular cross-ridges, and the remainder of the surface is marked 

 with oblique folds with tubercular margins forming a chevron 

 which is directed distad. In Pseudopus opus the organ is not sym- 

 metrical. Opposite the sulcus is a low, broad, smooth welt, and on 

 each side the sulcus is margined by a thin welt or lip. This is 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



coarsely plicate transversely, the plicae extending, to the welt. On 

 the other side, the transverse plicae terminate at a band of fine lon- 

 gitudinal folds. In Ophisaurus the organ is undivided, and there 

 is a welt with one edge and the proximal end free. It is covered 

 with robust papilla?. 



In Xantusiidae the hemipenis is bifurcate and is shortened as in 

 many Gecconidae, appropriately to the fragile tail. There is a welt 

 on each side of the sulcus spermaticus which follows a short spiral 

 direction. Opposite to the sulcus are two short, thick welts, which 

 have the direction of parts of consecutive threads of a screw. All 

 of the welts are deeply cross-folded. 



In the Tiida? two types may be observed of the structure of the 

 hemipenis, but I have not had access to sufficient materia! to enable 

 me to refer all the genera to the one or the other. In the typical 

 members, as in the genera Dracaena, Tupinambis, Amiva and Cue- 

 midophorus, the pattern consists of numerous delicate, imbricate, 

 transverse lamina? which are closely applied to each other. Oppo- 

 site the sulcus all the genera display a welt, which has free borders. 

 These are entire in Dracaena aud pectinate in Amiva and Cnemido- 

 phorus ; between these and the borders of the sulcus is a rounded 

 welt on each side. The lamina? are sublongitudiual, diverging prox- 

 imad from the sulcus ; on the first welt they turn sharply distad ; 

 between this and the welt they make a second chevron distad. turn- 

 ing proximad. Proximad of the median welt these lamina? meet, 

 forming a curve or chevron turned proximad. In Cnemidophoru.s 

 there is one less chevron. In this genus and Amiva there is a 

 strong, fleshy papilla at the apex of each tract between the welt and 

 sulcus. 



A modification is seen in Centropyx (pelviceps). Here there is a 

 narrow welt opposite the sulcus; on each side of the sulcus a prom- 

 inent welt diverges from it proximad aud approaches the proximal 

 end of the median welt, so as to enclose a space with it. It is trans- 

 versely plicate and the enclosed space on each side the median welt 

 has the delicate transverse lamination characteristic of the Tiida?. 

 What is entirely peculiar is the presence at the apex of each of the 

 laminate spaces of a large patch of acute flexible papilla?. 



The plan is the same in Anadia bogotensis, but the details are dif- 

 ferent. The organ is bifurcate. A strong welt opposite the sulcus 

 is divided into fine longitudinal folds, which are crimped trans- 

 versely. The space between this and the sulcus is marked with 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



folds which diverge distad from the welt and become longitudinal, 

 and are transversely crimped. In the longitudinal direction of the 

 plica? this genus differs from the Tiida?, and it is likely that 

 Ecpleopus and other allied genera are similar. 



In a third type represented by Heteroclonium bicolor* a welt 

 bounds the sulcus on each side. The space between these is marked 

 by a few feeble cross folds, and the borders support a single series 

 of closely placed recurved spines. Genera allied to Cophias are 

 likely to present this structure. 



Of the Lacertidae I have examined the hemipenis in the genera 

 Lacerta, Acanthodactylus and Latastia. They are bifurcate and 

 bilobate. In each division and proximad to it is an oval area with 

 transverse lamina surrounded by a welt. In Acanthodactylus one 

 of the areas is marked by longitudinal folds. 



Among the Gerrhosauridae, the hemipenis of Gerrhosaurus nigro- 

 lineatus has on its distad third, three welts opposite the sulcus, the 

 median larger, all finely cross folded. Between one of these and the 

 sulcus is a tract of coarse papilla? ; between the other and the sul- 

 cus the surface is smooth. 



Of the Scincidae I have examined the hemipenis in Trachysaurus, 

 Lepidothyris (fernandii), Euprepis (earinatus), Eumeces and Ma- 

 hula. They are smooth and with more or less numerous longitudinal 

 folds, excepting in Trachysaurus. Here the Laminae diverge from 

 the sulcus proximad and turn to a horizontal direction, meeting 

 opposite the sulcus in a chevron directed distad. In Euprepis curi- 

 natus and Eumeces obsoletus some of the plica? are cross-ribbed. In 

 Lepidothyris fernandii the organ is shortly bifurcate, and each 

 division has a membranous welt next the adjacent division. 



In the Anniellidae the genus Anniella has the entire surface from 

 one side of the sulcus to the other, thrown into transverse folds or 



4 IIeteroclonum BICOLOR gen. et. sp. nov. 



Char. gen. Frontonasal plates separating nasals ; prefrontals and frontoparie- 

 tals absent ; nostril in suture between nasal and first labial plate : no interparie- 

 tal. Limbs rudimental, two pairs: digits 4-1, the anterior clawed. No femoral 

 pores. Different from Sesquipes (type Cophias h I Blgr which 



has the digits 4-l' ; and Microdactylus when they are 3-3. Char, specif- Scales 

 in annuli of 28 scales, which are angular at the extremities, and alternate with 

 those of the adjacent rows. Labials 5-6; temporals 2-2-2. Three large pre- 

 anal plates, longer than wide. Tail Long obtuse, hind leu's minute. Anterior 

 digits short, subequal. Brown above, separated abruptly on each side from 

 the darker brown of the sides and lower surfaces. Chin and throat yellowish. 

 Scales of upper surface each with a bluish .-pot. Total length 130 mm., length 

 to vent 78 mm. Bogota; Philadelphia Museum Coll. Two specimens. 




1896.] NATURAL BCIENOES OF PHILADELPHIA. -JOT 



flounces, which are so wrinkled as to be more or less pocketed, much 

 as in Gerrhonotus (Elgaria). Organ undivided. 



Of the Amphishaenidae the only species of which I have obtained 

 a satisfactory hemipenis is the African Monopeltis galeatus Hallow. 

 The organ is bifurcate; each branch is marked with fine, close, 

 transverse folds, while the region proximad to these has coarser 

 folds directed transversely and obliquely. 



31 




468 proceedings of the academy of [1896. 



September 1. 



Mr. Charles Morris, in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



The deaths of Henry C. Ford, August 17, and of George M. 

 Conarroe, August 25, members, were announced. 



September 8. 

 The President, Samuel G. Drxox, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



September 15. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 "Fossil Bones of Birds and Mammals from Grotto Pietro 



Tamponi and Greve St. Alban." By R. W. Bhufeldt, M. I). 

 "Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee. Xo. 4. Mollusks." 



By Samuel X. Rhoads and Henry A. Pilsbry. 



September 22. 

 The President. Samuel G. Dixox, M. I)., in the (hair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



September 29. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 "Mammals collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith during his 

 Expedition to Lake Rudolf, Africa." By Samuel N. Rhoads. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



"The Hymenoptera Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith in 

 Northeast Africa." By William J. Fox. 



The following were elected members : — J. Howard Breed, 

 Effingham B. Morris, Curwin Stoddart, Jr. and Mrs. F. G. Dixon. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



NEW AND INTERESTING EOCENE M0LLT7SCA FROM THE GULF STATES. 

 BY GILBERT D. HARRIS. 



The following new or interesting fossils belonging to the Lea 

 Memorial Collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia have been put into ray hands for description and illustra- 

 tion by Rev. L. T. Chamberlain, of New York City. The greater 

 part of them were collected by Mr. C. W. Johnson during the 

 summers of 1894 and 1895. They are nut all new species; but 

 many are in such an excellent state of preservation that it has 

 seemed worth while to have them figured by the skilled pen-artist. 

 Dr. J. C. McConnell, of Washington, D. ( '. 



JACKSON STAGE. 



Pecten claibomensis Con. PI. XVI II. figs. 1 ami l'. 



This species has been frequently referred to, but has not hereto- 

 fore been figured. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Leda regina-jacksonis n. Bp. PJ. XVIII, ti^. 3. 



This fine species is the Jackson representative of L. opulenta 

 Con. of the Claiborne sand. It differs, however, from that sp< 



(a) in having finer, rounder and not depressed concentric sti 



(b) in having directly below the umbo a peculiar, straight, ventral 

 margin for some distance; (c) in being less nasute posteriorly, and 

 (d) in having the concentric lines on the post-umbonal slope 

 strongly marked and less distinctly interrupted and deflected by a 

 radiating depression. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 

 Meretrix pearlensis n. sp. PI. XVIII, figs. 4 and .i. 



The general characters of the species are shown by the figures. 

 The concentric striation is precisely that of Meretrix perovata var. 

 aldrichi (Bull. Am. Pal., No. 1, p. 48. pi. 1. tig. 1) and the young of 

 these two forms sometimes approach each other closely in outline, 

 yet there is always noticeable in pearlensis a tendency to become 

 elongate, like M. laevigata of the Paris Basin. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Instead of making this a new species, we might speak of it as a 

 marked variety of aldrichi, which itself is a variety of perovata Con. 

 It seems to us, however, better to designate it by a new name. A 

 variety of this species shows concentric line over its entire outer 

 surface. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 

 Tellina eburneopsis Con. PI. XVIII, fig. 6. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 

 Mactra mississippiensis Con. var. PI. XVIII, fig. 7. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 

 Periploma sp. PI. XVIII, fig. 8, 8a, 8b. 



Owing to the descriptions by Lea and Meyer of two fragmentary 

 specimens of Periploma, it is now unsafe to propose a new name for 

 this specimen. It differs considerably from either Lea's or Meyer's 

 figures and diagnoses, but Meyer has stated (Ber. iiber die Senck. 

 Nat. Ges. in Frank. A. M., 1887, p. 16) that his P. complicata occurs 

 at Jackson. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Eucheilodon creno-carinata lleilp. PL XVIII, fig. 9. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 

 3, 1880, p. 150. 



Several specimens of this species, of a moderate size and rather 

 imperfect, are among the Jackson material of this collection. A 

 specimen, perhaps the adult of this species, is shown by fig. 9, pi. 

 XVIII. The humeral carina, instead of being simply finely crenu- 

 late, is regularly nodular; moreover, there are thin, strong, revolv- 

 ing ribs on the part of the whorl below the carina. It is quite 

 possible this should be regarded as a distinct species, yet it is unsafe 

 to propose a new name until more material is at hand. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Pleurotoma (Ancistrosyrinx) columbaria Aid. 



Aldrich described this species (Geol. Surv. Ala., Bull. 1, 1886, 

 p. 31, pi. 6, fig. 9) from a fragment. The Lea Memorial Collection 

 possesses a least one perfect specimen. Hence, in continuation of 

 Aldrich's description it may be said : aperture slightly exceeding 

 the spire in length ; from the dentate carina downward on the body 

 whorl to the end of the canal, there are many granular spiral lines; 

 from the dentate carina toward the suture above, two coarse granu- 

 lar spiral lines are found ; inside of these spirals the humeral zone 

 is smooth, save faint traces of deeply curved longitudinal lines, the 

 retral curvature is confined to this smooth zone. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Harpa jacksonensis n. sp. PI. XVIII, fig. 10. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; volutions 8 ; 1 and 2 very minute, smooth; 3 much 

 larger, smooth ; 4 somewhat larger than 3, showing vertical cost* 

 in its first half, then assuming the characteristic markings of the 

 remaining whorls; costse on the body-whorl nine in number, some- 

 what deflected below the suture, as in Drillia; between the costse 

 the shell is finely cancellated with a net-work of raised lines; ante- 

 rior canal slightly larger than usual for the genus. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 

 Fusus insectoides n. sp. PI. XVIII, fig. 11. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general outline as figured ; 

 whorls 12 or 13; apex acute; upper whorls broadly costate and 

 with strong and weak alternating spiral lines; 5 spiral lines on the 

 shoulder, decreasing in strength toward the suture ; sides of the 

 whorls with two or three strong, raised spiral lines, with two weaker 

 ones above and two or three weaker ones below; longitudinal lines 

 faint, showing only between the coarse spirals; columella twisted 

 below; labium sharp and extending some distance away from the 

 columella; sutures most remarkably constricted. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Fusus mortoni Lea, var. near earexua liar. PI. XVIII, fig. L2. 



"We have already called attention to the variation that this species 

 undergoes (Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1895, p. 72) in the lower Claiborne 

 beds. Now we have it from Jackson showing a moderately large 

 size in many different forms. The specimen figured is unusually 

 smooth ; others show stronger spiral lines, especially below the 

 carina. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Latirus leaensis n. sp. PI. XV III, fig. 13. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; whorls 11 ; 1 and 2 smooth ; 3 rather finely costate, re- 

 maining spiral whorls with eight rather low costse, considerably 

 wider than the interspaces, and arranged so that those on each 

 succeeding larger whorl are a little behind those of the preceding 

 or smaller whorl, and hence, although in line, the line falls back 

 perhaps k revolution from apex to base; spiral lines on each whorl 

 6, large, with an equal number of intermediate striae. Body whorl 

 ornamented by 8 costse and alternate spiral lines to the end o\' the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



canal. Aperture contracted above and below ; columella with 2 

 fairly well defined plaits. 

 Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Mazzalina inaurata var. Con. PI. XVIII, fig. 14. 



This is very near to, if not identical with, Conrad's Mazzalina 

 pyrula from the lower Claiborne beds of Alabama. We have already 

 shown in our report on the Tertiary of Arkansas how many forms 

 this species assumes. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 

 Murex marksi Harris. PI. XVIII, fig. 15. 



This, as well as typical marksi from the Eocene of Arkansas, ap- 

 proaches very closely to M. engonatus, and, when specimens enough 

 shall have been collected, the two will doubtless be proven identical. 

 This has seven costae instead of six. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Monoceras jacksonium n. sp. PI. XVIII, fig. 16. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; whorls about 6 ; the upper 2 or 3 smooth ; 4 and 5 

 strongly costate medially and below ; spiral striae about 8 in num- 

 ber; body whorl nearly smooth, with a strongly marked humeral 

 zone on which are found about 6 spiral lines; medially smooth ; 

 basally more or less strongly spirally striate, with a depressed band 

 across which the lines of growth arch forward, hence giving rise to 

 a tooth like projection on the subcentral portion of the labrum ; 

 columella smooth, labrum lirate within, though the lira? do not ex- 

 tend far in the interior ; anterior canal peculiarly truncated below. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 

 Levifusus branneri Harris. PI. XIX. fig. 1. 



This species was described from a young specimen found in south- 

 ern Arkansas. Fragments of larger specimens were found by the 

 writer at White Bluff on Arkansas River, and still others in the 

 Jackson beds of Mississippi. This is by far the most perfect large 

 specimen yet known. Its close relationship to Fulgur must be evi- 

 dent to all. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 

 Siphonalia jacksonia n. sp. PI. XIX, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 7 or 8 ; marked by 10 rounded, longitudinal 

 costae, each in width a little over one-half that of the intermediate 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



spaces, strong from lower suture to greatest diameter of shell, and 

 from there decreasing rapidly in size and vanishing before reaching 

 the suture above ; strong spiral strise about 8- on each whorl, with an 

 equal number of finer alternate lines ; columella sharply bent as in 

 Strepsidura. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Amauropsis jacksonensis n. sp. PI. XIX. fig. ?,. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure ; whorls 10, the upper 4 to 5 small, the other increasing in 

 size rapidly and becoming shouldered ; body whorl large, shouldered ; 

 umbilicus none or entirely hidden by a labial callosity. This differs 

 from A. perovata Con. by its greater height, the well-defined shoulder 

 on each whorl, and the absence of an umbilicus. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Cypraea pinguis (on. PI. XIX. figs. 1. 4a. 



The specimen herewith figured shows a few spiral whorls. Gener- 

 ally, however, they are covered over. 

 Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



Cypraea dalli Aid. PI. XIX, figs. 



This was originally described from the Red Bluff horizon of Mis- 

 sissippi, yet it is quite abundant, and shows many varietal forms 

 at Jackson, Miss. 



Locality, Jackson, Miss. 



CLAIBORNE STAGE. 



Papillina staminea Con. var. PI. XX. figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Fusus staminem Con., Foss. Shells Tort. Form., 1S33, p, 43, pi. 18, tig. 

 14, of 2d ed., 1835. 



There is great confusion among the Claiborne species of Fusus 

 and its allies, and here is a most typical example. Papillina stami- 

 nea is quite fulgurate in appearance, having a row <>f compressed 

 tubercles on the carina and a long beak. The specimens herewith 

 figured show how greatly these features vary. These specimens 

 have some parts in common with F. irrasus ( ton., and we are inclined 

 to think all will prove to be one and the same species. The apices 

 of this and related species are smooth and blunt. 



Locality, Claiborne, Ala. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Papillina papillata Con. PI. XX, fig. 5. 



Fusus papillatus Con., Foss. Shells Tert. Form., 1833, p. 29; p. 53, pi 18, 

 fig. 3, of 2d ed. 



This large and beautiful specimen came from near Jackson, Ala., 

 from the Claiborne sand horizon. Conrad's figure of the species 

 does not show well some of its important characters, hence it is re- 

 drawn. Conrad remarks that it is rare at Claiborne. It is certainly 

 so in a perfect state of preservation, but portions of its huge colum- 

 ella are quite common in some places. 



Locality, Jackson, Ala. 



LIGNITIC STAGE (UPPER). 



Astarte smithvillensis var. liar. PI. XX, tig. 6. 



A. smithvillensis liar., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1895, p. 48, pi. 1, figs. 

 8a, 9a, b, c. 



This species is extremely variable, and we have little doubt but 

 that this Wood's Bluff specimen may be referred to it. 

 Locality, Wood's Bluff, Ala. 



Protocardia virginiana 1 ? Con. PI. XX, fig?. 7 and 8. 



This is probably a variety of the form described by Conrad as P. 

 lene or P. virginiana ; but since we have no specimens of that spe- 

 cies, it is impossible to speak with certainty on the subject. Several 

 species of this genus have been described from the Eocene, and it 

 will be a serious matter to properly work out their synonymy. This 

 form differs from nicolletti by its smaller umbones and smaller size. 



Locality, Wood's Bluff, Ala. 



Pleurotoma vaughani var. PI. XX, fig. 9. 



P. vaughani Har., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1895, p. 57, pi. 4, fig. 8. 



The fine large specimens in the Lea Memorial Collection differ 

 somewhat from typical vaughani as found in the lower Claiborne 

 beds of Texas. The latter is smaller, less strongly costate, with lirae 

 within the labrum. The upper carinal spiral whorl is slightly 

 higher in this variety than in the type. 



Cancellaria tortiplica Con. PI. XX, fig. 10. 



C. tortiplica Con., Am. Jr. Conch., 1865, p. 145, pi. 21, fig. 8. 



Conrad cites this from Texas, but the Alabama specimens ap- 

 proach the outlines of his fig. 8, PI. 21, more nearly than the Texan 

 forms do. Aldrich refers this form to evulsa Brander (Bull. Geol. 

 Surv. Ala., 1886, p. 52). 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Cancellaria silvaerupis n. sp. PI. XX, fig. 11. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure ; whorls about 6 ; 3 embryonic smooth ; others with about 

 8 strong spiral lines between the suture above and the suture below ; 

 incremental lines especially prominent between the strong raised 

 spirals ; labrum sharp at edge but abruptly thickening and varicose 

 a slight distance within ; columella concave, two plaits on its sub- 

 central portion and one marginal below. 



This species reminds one somewhat of C. quadrata of England and 

 C. ulmula of Texas. 



Locality, Wood's Bluff, Ala. 



Murex morulus Con. PL XX, fig. 11'. 



In this collection there are specimens of various sizes, and they 

 show one marked peculiarity. When small and young the anterior 

 canal is long but curved ; afterwards it seems to grow no more in 

 length, but becomes extremely bent or twisted, and a large umbili- 

 cus is formed. 



Locality, Wood's Bluff, Ala. 

 Latirus imbricatulus n. sp. PI. XXI, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 10; 1-4 embryonic, smooth; the remaining 

 spiral whorls with about 7 costie crossed by about 6 very strong re- 

 volving strise between which there are an equal number of fine 

 spirals. Labrum lirate within ; columella very much twisted and 

 showing signs of plications, especially at the basal angle. Umbilicus 

 not large, but well defined. The most peculiar feature of this spe- 

 cies is the imbricate appearance of the incremental lines. This 

 strongly reminds one of some of the Muricidse. The general form of 

 the species is much like Latirus rugatus Dall from the Ballast 

 Point Silex beds. 



Locality, Wood's Bluff. 

 Pyropsis perula Aid. PI. XXI, fig. la. 



This is such an unusually largo and fine specimen, it has seemed 

 worth while to have it figured, although it comes from the typical 

 locality. 



Sipho 1 erecta Aid. PI. XXI. fig. 3. 



We are inclined to regard this beautiful, though imperfect, speci- 

 men as an adult form of Aldrich's S. erecta. The punctate appear- 

 ance in the indented spiral linos indicates a relationship to the 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



Tectibranchs. The matter can only be decided when more perfect 

 material is at hand. 



Locality, Wood's Bluff, Ala. 



Cypraea smithi Aid. PI. XXI, fig. 4. 



This is broader posteriorly than typical smithi, and has a less con- 

 spicuous posterior termination of the labium, yet it is most likely of 

 the same species. It seems to be the forerunner of C. dalli Aid. 



Locality, Wood's Bluff, Ala. 



Solarium huppertzi var. Har. PI. XXI, fig. 5. 



The markings on this specimen are somewhat finer than those of 

 typical huppertzi, but this may be only a varietal feature. Again, 

 huppertzi was described from a young, small specimen ; this is mere 

 nearly full grown. 



Solarium sylvserupis n. sp. 



Syn. S. texanum Dall, Tr. Wag. Free Inst. J^ci., Vol. Ill, p. 826. 



After examining the type of texanum in the Academy's collection, 

 it was found to be the same as Conrad's scrobiculatum. Hence the 

 larger, beautiful form described by Dall under the name "Texanum 

 Gabb " from Wood's Bluff, must have another name. 



Solariella sylvaerupis n. sp. PI. XXI, fig. 6, 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figures; whorls about 6, with about 5 stria? on each; slightly 

 shouldered at the suture, bearing there a row of beads or tubercle- ; 

 nacreous within; umbilicus crenate at the periphery, gxanularlv 

 striate within. 



Locality, Wood's Bluff, Ala. 



LIGNITIC STAGE (LOWER). 

 Meretrix mortoniopsis var. Hp. Plate XXII, figs. 1 and 2. 



The figures represent two well-preserved specimens of this species 

 from the lower Lignitic. It seems well to have them accurately 

 figured, since their relationship to the species of this genus described 

 by Rogers and Conrad from Virginia is still in an unsettled state. 



Locality, Bell's Landing, Ala. 

 Tellina lignitica n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 3a. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figures ; substance of shell very thin ; smooth ; 2 cardinal teeth 

 in each valve ; a furrow in the upper anterior margin of the left 

 valve causes the same to form two obscure teeth. 



Locality, Gregg's Landing, Ala. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Panopaea porrectoides var. Aid. PI. XXII, fig. 4. 



By comparing our figure with Aldrich's, it will be seen that typi- 

 cal porrectoides is much larger, more developed anteriorly, and with 

 urnbones nearer the center of the shell. Yet they both belong to the 

 same section of the genus, and it is almost certain that the one is 

 the ancestor of the other. 



Locality, Gregg's Landing, Ala. 



Lucina greggi n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 5 and 6. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; marked exteriorly with concentric lines not deeply in- 

 cised ; interior with two diverging cardinal teeth and an anterior 

 lateral; anterior muscular scar very large and extending from the 

 anterior lateral tooth to the basal margin of the shell ; posterior 

 muscular scar comparatively small, rotund ; interior naturally (or 

 by disease) much thickened or calloused, a shallow channel extend- 

 ing from a little above the upper margin of the posterior muscular 

 scar obliquely to near the base of the anterior scar. 



A small specimen, magnified in fig. 5, and probably of this spe- 

 cies, shows an extremely deeply excavated ligament pit, reminding 

 one of Lucina claytonia. In the old type specimen this pit broadens 

 out and the ligament seems to be attached very much as in Dosinia. 



Locality, Gregg's Landing, Ala. 

 Pleurotoma nasuta Whiti. Plate XXII, fig. 7. 



This species is extremely variable in ornamentation. Sometimes 

 the spiral lines are few and coarse; at other time- they are many 

 and fine. Our figure shows a specimen of the latter type. 



Locality, Gregg's Landing, Ala. 

 Fusus rugalus Aid. PI. XXI], fig. 8. 



The specimen figured is more perfect than the type: it shows well 

 the characters of the anterior canal, especially its ornamentation. 



Locality, Gregg's Landing, Ala. 



Pseudoliva vetusta. PI. XXII, fig. 9. 



P. vetusta Con. Foss. Sh Tert. Form., 1833, p. 4-1. 



The large size to which certain species described originally from 

 Claiborne often attain in the Bell's Landing Lignitic has already 

 been the subject of various observations. Perhaps no species shows 

 to better advantage this tendency than does the present. Note the 

 great SUtural callosity in connection with like developments on 

 Volutilithes petrosm and Rostellaria trinodifera. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



Cassidaria brevidentata Aid. var. PI. XXII, fig. 10. 



This specimen shows an unusually large number of nodules on 

 the humeral carina. In front, the two lower carina? are without 

 nodules, while on the back all three carina? are strongly nodular. 



Locality, Bell's Landing, Ala. 



Levifusus trabeatus Con. PI. XXII. fig. 11. 



Here is one of the largest and the most compact varieties of this 

 species. The labral lira? are unusually well marked; the carina] 

 nodules are very large but imperfectly defined. 



Locality, Bell's Landing, Ala. 



Triton iEanularia eocenensis Aid. PI. XXIII. I a 



Upon the whole, this is the most perfect specimen of this species 

 yet found. Its apes is somewhat eroded and might be represented 

 a little more acute. Strangely enough, it does not show varices on 

 the whorls as is usual in specimens of this species. 



Locality, Gregg's Landing, Ala. 



Caricella podagrina Dall. PI. XXIII, fig. 2. 



The specimen herewith figured is so exceptionally fine that it has 

 seemed worth while to have it thus specially noticed in our paleon- 

 tological literature. 



From the type locality, Bell's Landing, Ala. 



Fusus bellanus n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 3. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form of the shell as 

 indicated by the figure ; whorls 8 or 9 ; embryonic 3 smooth ; others 

 marked by from 8 to 10 sharp, flattened peripheral spines, at whose 

 base or immediately at the suture a subordinate series of spines oc- 

 cur on the larger whorls; canal nearly closed, long, straight ; labial 

 callus thin. 



At first sight this seemed like a large, well-formed F. mohri, but 

 on comparing details it was found to be very distinct. 



Locality, Bell's Landing, Ala. 

 Cyllene bellana n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls about 8; embryonic 3 small, smooth, others 

 finely costate and with fine revolving lines ; costa? strongest on the 

 central portion of the whorls (i. e.,x>n the shoulder) vanishing above, 

 reaching the suture below ; columella twisted, Strepsidura-Vike below ; 

 labrum lirate within; exlerior of body whorl with extremely fine 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



revolving lines on its central portion, and with coarser lines above 

 the carina and near the base. 



Locality, Bell's Landing, Ala. 

 Solarium greggi n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 5, 5a. 



Whorls about 5. Nuclear whorls rounded smooth ; remaining 

 whorls with three crenulate spiral lines and one smooth, strong 

 spiral line just above the suture. Periphery above the body whorl 

 with one deeply incised spiral line, thus rendering the periphery of 

 the body whorl obtuse. Umbilicus small, with radii extending from 

 its periphery about i way across the body-whorl, and having a 

 raised spiral coarsely crenulate carina medially located. 



Locality, Gregg's Landing, Ala. 



MIDWAY STAGE. 

 Pleurotoma (Cithara 1 ?) leania Harris. PI. XXIII. fig. 7. 



This species is rather remarkable for the extreme shallowness of 

 the retral sinus. It seems never to attain a much greater size than 

 that indicated by the figure (X 2£). 



Type, Lea Memorial Collection, Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



Locality, Matthew's Landing, Ala. 

 Pleurotoma (Surcula) ostrarupis Harris. Plate XXIII, tig. 8. 



This species was described from a peculiar looking fragment from 

 the Midway beds on Brazos River, Texas. It proves to be quite 

 common in the upper Midway of Alabama. 



Locality, Matthew's Landing, Ala. 

 Natica mediavia 1 Harris. PI. XXIII, fig. B. 



JV. mediavia liar., Bull. Am. Pal., No. 4, 1896, p. 117, pi. 12. tig. 1"> 



While working over a large amount of material from the upper- 

 most Midway limestone, as exposed on the Chattahoochee, several 

 fragments of JV. mediavia were found of the size indicated by the fig- 

 ure of the type in Bulletin 4. It was soon found that fragments, too, 

 indicated a considerably larger size for some specimens as found li 

 miles northeast of Clayton. Fragments of the body whorl of what 

 would seem to be the same species occur at Matthew'? Landing. 

 They certainly belong to the species herewith figured. Heine it is 

 quite probable that this larger specimen, much compressed vertically, 

 belongs to the same species as the smaller specimen figured in Bul- 

 letin No. 4. 



Locality, Matthew's Landing, Ala. 




1896.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 481 



Explanation of Plates. 



Plate XVIII. 



Figs. 1 and 2. Pecten claibornensis Con. 



Fig. 3. Leda reg ina-jacksonis n. sp. 



Fig. 4 and 5. Meretrix pearlensis n. sp. 



Fig. 6. Tellina ebumeopsi-i Con. 



Fig. 7. Mactra mississippiensis Con. 



Figs. 8a. Periploma sp. 



Fig. 8b. Periploma, hinge magnified. 



Fig. 9. Eucheilodon creno-carinata Heilpr. 



Fig. 10. Harpa jacksonensis n. sp. 



Fig. 11. Fusus insectoides n. sp. 



Fig. 12. Fusus mortoni Lea var. near carexus Har. 



Fig. 13. Latirus leae'nsis n. sp. 



Fig. 14. Mazzalina inaurata var. Con. 



Fig. 15. Murex marlcsi Harris. 



Fig. 16. Monoceras jacksonium n. sp. 



Plate XIX. 



Fig. 1. Levifusus branneri Harris X |. 

 Fig. 2. Siphonalia jacksonia n. sp. 

 Fig. 3. Amauropsis jacksonensis n. sp. 

 Fig. 4 and 4a. Cyprcea pinguis Con. 

 Fig. 5, 5a, 6, 6a. Cyprcea dalli Aldr. 



Plate XX. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3 and 4. Papillina staminea Con. var. 



Fig. 5. Papillina pap illata Con. 



Fig. 6. Astarte smithvillensis Har. X !• 



Figs. 7 and 8. Protocardia virginiana t Con. X f • 



Fig. 9. Pleurotoma vaughani Har. 



Fig. 10. Cancellaria tortipliea Con. X 3. 



Fig. 11. Cancellaria sylvwrupis n. sp. 



Fig. 12. Murex morulus Con. 



Plate XXL 



Figs. 1 and la. Pyropsis perula Aid. 



Fig. 2. Latirus imbricatulus n. sp. 



Fig. 3. Sipho erecta Aid. 



Fig. 4. Cyprcea srnithi Aid. 



Fig. 5. Solarium huppertzi var. Har. X 2. 



Fig. 6. Solariella sylvcerupis n. sp. 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Plate XXII. 



Figs. 1 and 2. Meretrix nuttalliopsis Heilpr. 



Fig. 3. Tellina greggi a. sp. 



Fig. 4. Panopaza porrectoides var. Aid. 



Figs. 5 and 6. Lucina greggi n. sp. 



Fig. 7. Pleurotoma nasuta Whitf. 



Fig. 8. Fusus rugatus Aid. 



Fig. 9. Pseudoliva vetusta Con. 



Fig. 10. Caxsidaria brevidentata Aid. X f- 



Fig. 11. Levifusus trabeatus Con. 



Plate XXIII. 



Fig. 1. Triton (Rauularia) eocenensis AM. 



Fig. 2. Caricella podagrina Dall. 



Fig. 3. Fusus bellanus n. sp. 



Fig. 4. Cyllene bellana n. sp. 2. 



Figs. 5, 5a. Solarium greggi n.sp. XV- 



Fig. 6. Pleurotoma (Surcula) ostrarupis Hai\ l\ 



Fig. 7. Pleurotoma (Cithara) leania Har. > |. 



Fie:. 8. Nat ica mediavia t liar. 




1896.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 483 



October 6. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Forty persons present. 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award reported in 

 favor of conferring the recognition for 1896 on Professor Giovanni 

 Capellini of Bologna. 



Giovanni Capellini was born in Spezia, August 23, 1833. He 

 studied in the college of his native city and in the University of 

 Pisa. While yet a student he had made important paleontological 

 discoveries and was in correspondence with illustrious scientists, 

 both Italian and foreign. 



After obtaining his degree in science he made frequent trips in 

 France, England, Switzerland, Belgium and Germany. In Sep- 

 tember, 1859, he was appointed Professor of Natural History in the 

 National College of Genoa. 



In September of the following year he was made Professor of 

 Geology and Paleontology in the University of Bologna. 



In 1863 he visited North America. The rich collections then 

 made by him in Nebraska and elsewhere are now in the Geological 

 Institute of Bologna. In 1864 he made interesting scientific discov- 

 eries in the petroleum lands of Wallachia. 



As President of the Second Extraordinary Reunion of the Italian 

 Naturalists in Spezia in 1865, he founded the International Congress 

 of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archeology. 



In 1872 he travelled in Greece, and in the autumn took an im- 

 portant part in the International Anthropological Congresses in 

 Brussels. He then travelled in Switzerland, Holland, Austria, 

 Hungary, Germany, Spain and Portugal, and returned through 

 France and England. 



He was made Vice-President of the First International Geologi- 

 cal Congress in Paris in 1878, and obtained its assent that the 

 second meeting should take place in Bologna in 1881. Elected 

 actual President (in conjunction with Quintino Sella as honorary 

 President) of this Congress, he inaugurated the commission for the 

 unification of geological nomenclature and a commission for the 

 production of a geological map of Europe, outlined at Berlin. To- 

 gether with Sella, he founded, on that occasion, the Italian Geologi- 

 32 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



cal Society. In 1885 he directed, in great part, the Third Inter- 

 national Geological Congress in Berlin, and contributed not a little 

 to its success, as also to that of the Fourth Session in London in 

 1888. 



He had now published 140 scientific communications. 



Having served as Rector of the University of Bologna at intervals 

 from 1874 to 1888, in the latter year be organized and directed a 

 celebration of its Eighth Century, for which he received letters of 

 congratulation from all the universities of the world. He has 

 been decorated by the Emperor of Germany and other sovereigns. 

 The University of Edinburgh conferred upon him through its Rector 

 the diploma of Doctor " Honoris Causa." The University of 

 Moscow nominated him honorary Professor. Seventy of the 

 principal academies of Europe and America have registered his 

 name among their members. He was elected a Correspondent of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in 1863. 



He is President of the International Commission for the Unifica- 

 tion of Geological Nomenclature and President of the Royal Geo- 

 logical Survey of Italy. 



Mica Schists of the Schuylkill River. — Theodore D. Rand pre- 

 sented specimens of mica schist from the river road near Strawberry 

 Mansion, Fairmount Park. The nodules resemble very imperfect 

 andalusite crystals, but appear to be almost wholly quartz with a 

 little kyanite or sillimanite, resembling closely those described by 

 the late Dr. George H. Williams, in the Fifteenth Annual Report of 

 the United States Geological Survey, p. 665, as occurring on Sligo 

 Branch (probably Fairfax Co., Va.) and as suggesting contact 

 metamorphism of included fragments. 



October 13. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



The deaths were announced of Alexander H. Green, August 19, 

 1896, and Josiah Dwight Whitney, August 19, 1896, Correspondents. 



October 20. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



The Occurrence of Macacus leoninus (Blyth) in Eastern Bur- 

 mah. — Arthur Erwin Brown stated that a young male monkey 

 nearly allied to Macacus nemestrinus was purchased by the Zoologi- 

 cal Society of Philadelphia in April, 1894, from a person who had 

 procured it at Mongnai, in the southern Shan states, Upper Burmah. 

 At the time this animal was received, certain peculiarities led him to 

 refer it provisionally to M. leoninus (Blyth), but it is only lately 

 that he had fully determined this identification to be correct. It has 

 now lived in the garden two years and a half and he would suppose 

 it to be about four years old, but it has not yet assumed the full 

 colors of the male of this species as shown in Mr. Sclater's plate 1 

 the resemblance between it and the female being still close. The 

 general color is pale brown, resulting from the yellow and brown 

 annulation of the hairs ; the sides of the body and outside of the limbs 

 are rather paler and somewhat grayish ; the horse-shoe mark on top 

 of the head is well defined in a darker shade of brown which shows 

 also along the back and upper side of the tail and slightly appears 

 on the back of the hands and feet. The characteristic red line in 

 the bare skin from the outer corner of the eye is well marked, and 

 it is interesting to observe that it becomes much brighter in color 

 when the animal is excited than at other times. It is doubtful if 

 this mark would be at all evident in skins. The specimen is now 

 about twenty inches in length from nose to base of tail ; the tail 

 being about six and a half and without a tuft. 



As compared with nemestrinus of like age leoninus has the muz- 

 zle shorter, the superciliary ridges more prominent, the ischial callos- 

 ities smaller, the hair about the cheeks, neck and shoulders much 

 longer, the spreading whiskers being conspicuous when looked at 

 from in front, the face and ears are paler and the iris is distinctly 

 hazel brown, while in nemestrinus it is of a paler yellowish-brown. 



It would appear that M. leoninus has heretofore been only known 

 to occur in the Province of Arracan, in AVestern Burmah, on the 

 Bay of Bengal, and from a few localities in the Valley of the Irra- 

 waddy, the present specimen, therefore, extends the range of the 

 species eastward across Upper Burmah to the borders of Yunnan. 

 Dr. Griggs, from whom the specimen was procured, fully assured 

 the speaker as to the locality. 



The characters of this monkey are very distinct and at its present 

 age, when placed side by side with specimens of the southern form 

 of pig-tailed monkey, M. nemestrinus, there is no possibility of con- 

 fusing them. 



October 27. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



1 Proc. Zool. Soc. of London, 1870, pi. XXXV. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"New Species of Fresh- water Mollusks from South America," 

 by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



" Geology of the Mussel-bearing Clays of Fish House, N. J.," 

 by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



The death of Baron Ferdinand Von Mueller, a Correspondent, 

 October 9, 1896, was announced. 



The following were elected members : — 



Henry A. Laessle, George C. Harlan, M. D., William M. 

 Singerly and Henry Beates, Jr., M. D. 



Prof. W. C. Roentgen of Wurzburg, was elected a Correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ZOOLOGY OF TENNESSEE. 

 No. 4, MOLLUSKS. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 1 



The following paper concludes the annotated lists of the animals 

 of Tennessee, collected and observed by Mr. Rhoads, which have 

 appeared in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, beginning with page 376, in the volume for 1895. 

 The reader is referred to this article for an itinerary of the journey 

 through Tennessee, during which the collection of mollusks here 

 enumerated was secured. 



The list is restricted exclusively to the collection made by Mr. 

 Rhoads in May and June, 1895, no attempt being made, as in pre- 

 vious papers of this series, to complete the list. 



The literature of Tennessee mollusks is extensive, nearly all gen- 

 eral works on the North American land and fresh water forms con- 

 taining descriptions of or references to species from the state. 

 There are, however, but few special papers on shells of this area. 

 Dr. James Lewis published in the American Journal of Conchol- 

 ogy, VI, 1870, p. 188-191, " Notes on the Land Shells of East Ten- 

 nessee," based on specimens collected by Miss Annie E. Law. 

 Pages 216-226 contain an article " On the Shells of the Holston 

 River," by the same author, likewise from Miss Law's collection. 

 Tryon, in Amer. Jour. Conch., VII, p. 86, reviews Dr. Lewis' notes 

 on Holston River Strepomatidce. A third paper by Lewis, " Shells 

 of Tennessee (No. 2)," collected by Miss Law, appears in Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for 1872, 

 pp. 108-115. A number of other papers by Dr. Lewis, in the same 

 Proceedings, and by Prof. A. G. Wetherby, in the Journal of the 

 Cincinnati Society of Natural History, deal mainly with Tennessee 

 mollusks. 



In species of Unioiiidce, Tennessee is wonderfully rich. The 

 western part of the state, represented in the collection here recorded 



1 Prof. H. A. Pilsbry, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 and his assistant, Mr. E. G. Vanatta, identified the entire collection. Chas. 

 T. Simpson, of the National Museum, has kindly examined and reported on a 

 number of ambiguous and difficult Unionidce. All annotations are made by 

 Mr. Pilsbry. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



by the forms taken at Reelfoot Lake, has the typical northern Missis- 

 sippi fauna, with a few southwestern species. The special character 

 of the Tennessee River system is well known to conchologists ; but 

 among the species herein catalogued from middle and east Tennes- 

 see will be found a number of forms described from Alabama, 

 Louisiana and other localities to the south and west, such as Unio 

 propinquux, U. pybasii, U. turgidus, U. tumescens, U. caliginosus, 

 etc. 



PULMONATA. 

 AGNATHA. 

 Family CIRCINARIID^ Pilsbry. 

 Selenitidse Fischer = Macrocyclis and Selenites Auct. 



1. Circinaria 2 concava (Say). 



Bellevue (68677) 3 ; Banks of Emory Riv., Harriman (68676); 

 Johnson City (68679) ; Road to Cloudland, Roan Mt., 5000 ft. 

 (68675). 



AULACOPODA. 

 Family ZONITID^l. 



2. Vitrea arborea (Say). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68689) ; Raleigh (69104); Sawyer's 

 Springs (69105) ; Banks Emory Riv., Harriman (68688, 68692); 

 Allardt (68691); 5 m. S. W. Greeneville (68693); Greeneville 

 (68694) ; road to Cloudland, Roan Mt., 3500 to 5000 ft. (68690). 



3. Vitrea indentata (Say). 

 Bellevue (68696, 68697). 



4. Omphalina kopnodes (W. G. Binn.). 



Samburg, Obion Co. (69106) ; Bellevue (69107). 



5. Omphalina fuliginosa (Griff.). 



Banks of Emory Riv., Harriman (68635). 



6. Omphalina laevigata (Pfr.). 



Raleigh (68639) ; bank Richland Creek ("Belle Mead"), David- 

 son Co. (68642) ; Bellevue (68637) ; Sawyer's Springs, Walden's 

 Ridge (68638) ; bank Emory Riv., near Harriman (68641) ; John- 

 son City (68643). 



2 Circinaria Beck, 1837 = Macrocyclis Binney = Selenites Fischer, 1S78, 

 not Selenites Hope, 1S40. 



'Braketed numbers refer to the catalogue entries of the Academy of Natu- 

 ral Sciences of Philadelphia. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



7. Omphalina rugeli (W. G. Binn.). 



Roan Mt., Carter Co., 4000 to 6000 ft. (69108, 69109, 69110). 



8. Vitrinizonites latissimus (Lewis). 



Rock Creek, Roan Mt., 3500 to 5000 ft. (68698). 



9. Gastrodonta acerra (Lewis). 



Roan Mt., Carter Co., 5000 ft. (69084). 



10. Gastrodonta intertexta (Binn.). 

 Chattanooga (68670). 



11. Gastrodonta ligera (Say). 

 Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68673). 



12. Gastrodonta demissa (Binn.). 

 Bellevue (69086). 



13. Gastrodonta capsella (Gld.). 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (69089) ; Emory Riv., near 

 Harriman (69090) ; Roan Mt., Rock Creek (69091). 



14. Gastrodonta gularis (Say). 



Sawyer's Springs (69092) ; Emory Riv., near Harriman (69093) ; 

 Nolachucky Riv., near Greeneville (68094) ; Roan Mt., Carter Co., 

 4000 to 6000 ft. (69095, 69096). 



15. Gastrodonta collisella Pils. 



Emory Riv., near Harriman (69097) ; Johnson City (69098). 



16. Gastrodonta interna (Say). 



Bellevue (68666); Chattanooga (68667); Sawyer's Springs, 

 Walden Ridge (68668) ; bank Emory Riv., Harriman (68669). 



Family LIMACID^J. 



17. Limax campestris Binn. 



Reelfoot Lake (69056) ; Bellevue (69055) ; Holston Riv., near 

 French Broad Junction (69054). 



Family PHILOMYCIDJE. 



18. Philomycus carolinensis (Bosc). 



Reelfoot Lake (69057); Raleigh (69078); Sawyer's Springs 

 (69059) ; Harriman (69058). 



Family ENDODONTID^E. 



19. Pyramidula perspectiva (Say). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68650) ; " Belle Mead " farm, near 

 Nashville (68649) ; Bellevue (68646) ; Chattanooga (68645) ; Saw- 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



yer's Springs, Walden Ridge (68653) ; bank Emory Riv., Harri- 

 man (68644) ; Knoxville (68651) ; Johnson City (68647) ; Roan 

 Mt., 5000 ft. (68652). 



20. Pyramidula alternata (Say). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68661) ; Belle Mead Farm, near Nash- 

 ville (69079) ; Bellevue (68663) ; Williams Isl., near Chattanooga 

 (68664); Chattanooga (69080) ; Sawyer's Springs (69081) ; Knox- 

 ville (68662) ; Greeneville (68657) ; Johnson City (69082) ; Rock 

 Creek, Roan Mt. (68655) ; Doe Riv., Roan Mt., 4000 ft. (68656). 



21. Pyramidula alternata carinata (Auct.). 

 Emory Riv., near Harriman (69083). 



Most Tennessee specimens of this species are more coarsely and 

 strongly ribbed than northern and western examples, and there is 

 often a more or less pronounced peripheral keel. The culmination 

 of this type of shell is P. alternata mordax, of which, however, no 

 specimens were taken at localities recorded above. The form called 

 var. carinata contrasts with these, being very fine-ribbed and dis- 

 tinctly carinated, and not at all of the mordax type. Peculiarly de- 

 pressed, hut not keeled, specimens occurred at Sawyer's Springs. 



22. Helicodiscus lineatus (Say). 



Belle Mead farm, near Nashville (68681) ; bank Emory Riv., 

 Harriman (68682). 



IIOLOPODA. 



Family HEL.ICID.Si. 



23. Polygyra plicata Say. 



Emory Riv., near Harriman (69060). 



24. Polygyra troostiana Lea. 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (69061). 



25. Polygyra inflecta (Say). 



Raleigh (68579, 69062); Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville 

 (68581); Bellevue (68577); Williams Isl., near Chattanooga 

 (68574); Chattanooga (68584, 68572); bank Holston Riv.. above 

 junction of French Broad Riv. (68573) ; Knoxville (68575) ; Green- 

 ville (68576) ; Johnson City (69583). 



26. Polygyra rugeli (Shutt.). 



Sawyer's Springs, Walden Ridge (68571); bank Emory Riv., 

 near Harriman (68570). 




1896. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



27. Polygyra fraudulenta Pils. 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68565) ; Belle Mead Farm, near Nash- 

 ville (68566) ; Williams Isl., near Chattanooga (68569) ; bank 

 Emory Riv., Harriraan (68567) ; bank Doe Riv.. 4000 ft., Roan 

 Mt. (68564). 



28. Polygyra tridentata (Say). 



Sawyer's Springs, Walden Ridge (68557) ; Greeneville (68561) ; 

 5 m. S. W. Greeneville, bank Nolachucky Riv. (68558) ; Allardt 

 (68562) ; near junction Holston and French Broad Rivs. (68559) ; 

 Johnson City (68560) ; banks Doe Riv., Roan Mt., 4000 ft. 

 (68563). 



29. Polygyra palliata (Say). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68555) ; Johnson City (68556). 



30. Polygyra obstricta (Say). 



Bellevue (68553) ; bank Emory Riv., Harriman (68552). 



31. Polygyra appressa perigrapta Pils. 



Samburg (68547) ; Raleigh (68544) ; Belle Mead Farm, near 

 Nashville (6S557) ; Chattanooga (68542) ; Sawyer's Springs, Wal- 

 den Ridge (68549) ; bank Emory Riv., Harriman (68548) ; Knox- 

 ville (68541). 



32. Polygyra subpalliata Pils. 



Roan Mt., 3000 to 6000 ft. (69064, 69065, 69066). 



This is the " Mesodon wetherbiji " of most collections. It is a far 

 more common species in museums than that, occurring abundantly 

 at Roan Mt. 



33. Polygyra wetherbyi (Bid.). 



Emory Riv., near Harriman, Roane Co. (69067). 



The specimens of this excessively rare species agree with one of 

 the original lot collected by Prof. A. G. Wetherby. It has been 

 found before in Whitley (and Campbell ?) counties. 



34. Polygyra wheatleyi (Bid.). 



Roan Mt., 3000 to 6000 ft. (69068, 69069, 69070). 



35. Polygyra sp.? 



Allardt (69071). 



A single specimen, defective in the umbilical region, of an appar- 

 ently new species. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



36. Polygyra elevata (Say.). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68606) ; Belle Mead Farm, near Nash- 

 ville (68604) ; Bellevue (68619) ; Chattanooga (68607), faintly, 

 broadly chestnut-banded at the periphery; bank of Emory Riv., 

 Harriman (68605); junction French Broad and Holston Rivers 

 (68608, 68618). 



37. Polygyra exoleta (Binn.). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68614) ; Bellevue (68613); bank Em- 

 ory Riv., Harriman (68616). 



38. Polygyra andrewsae (Binn.). 



Ten miles east of Allardt (68624) ; Roan Mt., Doe Riv. valley, 

 3000 ft. (68625, 66305) ; top of Roan Mt. (68629) : road to Cloud- 

 land, 3500 to 5000 ft. (68626, 68628). 



Mr. E. G. Vanatta, who dissected specimens, found that the small 

 thin-shelled typical form agrees with the very large, solid shells in 

 soft anatomy, confirming Binney's observations. 



39. Polygyra albolabris (Say). 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (68621) ; Chattanooga (68620). 



40. Polygyra albolabris major (Binn.). 



Vaughan's Cave, near Bellevue (68623) ; Johnson City (68629). 



Very large specimens. Dissections of them by Mr. E. G. Vanatta 

 fully confirm the anatomical distinctions indicated by Mr. Binney 

 between this species or variety and the large form of P. andrewsoB. 



41. Polygyra thyroides (Say). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68611) ; Raleigh (68601) ; Belle Mead 

 Farm, near Nashville (68598); Bellevue (68610); Chattanooga 

 (68603) ; Knoxville (68602 : 2 m. E. Watauga Sta., Washington 

 Co. (68599) ; Johnson City (68609). 



42. Polygyra clausa (Say). 



Williams Isl., near Chattanooga (68631) ; Johnson City (68630). 



43. Polygyra downieana (Bid.). 



Sawyer's Springs (69072) ; Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville 

 (69073). 



44. Polygyra monodon fraterna (Say). 

 Raleigh (69074). 



45. Polygyra leai (Ward). 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (68596). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



46. Polygyra hirsuta altispira Pils. 



Road to Cloudland, Roan Mt., Doe Riv., 4000 ft. (68586) ; top 

 Roan Mt.. 6000 ft. (68585). 



47. Polygyra stenotrema (Fer.). 



Chattanooga (68588) ; Sawyer's Springs, Walden Ridge (68592) ; 

 bank Emory Riv., Harriman (68587) ; Allardt (68593). 



48. Polygyra stenotrema depilata Pils. 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (68594) ; Bellevue (68590) ; 

 Johnson City (68595). 



Family BTJLIMULID^. 



49. Bulimulus dealbatus (Say). 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (68632). 



ELASMOGNATHA. 



Family STJCCINEIDiE. 



50. Suocinea obliqua Say. 

 Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68686). 



51. Succinea ovalis Gld. 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68683) ; Mouth of Wolf Riv., Memphis 

 (68684) ; Richland Creek, Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville 

 (69282). 



52. Succinea avara Say. 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (68687) ; Chattanooga (69281). 



LLMXOPHILA. 



Family LIMN.22ID.a3. 



53. Limnaea desidiosa Say. 



Samburg (69297) ; Bellevue (69295) ; Johnson City (69298) ; 

 Knoxville (69075). 



54. Limnaea columella Say. 

 Knoxville (69076). 



55. Limnaea humilis Say. 

 Johnson City (69299). 



56. Planorbis trivolvis Say. 

 Samburg (69250, 69301). 



57. Planorbis bicarinatus Say. 



Emory River, near Harriman (69302). 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



58. Planorbis dilatatus Gld. 

 Knoxville, in a spring (69303). 



59. Ancylus diaphanus Hald. 

 Knoxville (69334). 



Family PHYSIDJE. 



60. Physa gyrina Say. 



S. Harpeth River, 6 m. from Bellevue (69266) ; Knoxville 

 (69077). 



61. Physa heterostropha Say. 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (69267) ; Nolachucky River, 

 near Greeneville (69269) ; Watauga River, near Watauga (69270) ; 

 Johnson City (69268). 



62. Physa integra Hald. 



Samburg (69271) ; Johnson City (69272). 



63. Physa microstoma Hald. 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (69275). Also taken in Ken- 

 tucky, at Mammoth Cave (69276) ; west bluff of Kentucky River, 

 opposite Frankfort (69277) ; Shelbyville, Clear Creek (68278). 



This seems to be a distinct and well characterized species, readily 

 distinguishable at first sight from all other American forms of this 

 genus, in which specific lines are so difficult to define. Judging 

 from the rare occurrence of this name in the literature, the species 

 must be comparatively rare and local. 



PROSOBR ANCH1 AT A . 



KHIPIDOGLOSSA. 



Family HELICINID.E. 



64. Helicina orbiculata (Say). 

 Chattanooga (68633). 



65. Helicina occulta (Say). 



Bank Emor} r Riv., near Harriman (68634). 



This species was first found living in the West by Messrs. Pilsbry 

 and Shimek, but has subsequently occurred to conchologists in 

 many localities in Iowa, Minnesota and Wisconsin. In the Fast it 

 occurs living in " Western Pennsylvania " (Green), near Pittsburg 

 (Stupakoff), in Virginia, western North Carolina and eastern Ten- 

 nessee. Its range is apparently interrupted by the Ohio Valley, and 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



the special localities east and west are more or less isolated. Its distri- 

 bution is, on the whole, more markedly discontinuous than that of 

 any American land snail known to me. It probably lives in higher 

 latitude than any other member of the Eelicinidce. H. occulta is an 

 omnipresent, and therefore characteristic, fossil of the Mississippi 

 Valley loess ; and during the formation of that deposit was exten- 

 sively diffused and excessively numerous over a large area where it 

 is now extinct. 



TJ2NIOGLOSSA. 



Family AMNICOLID^l Tryon. 



66. Somatogyrus aureus Tryon. 



Nolachucky River, near Greeneville (69284). 



67. Pomatiopsis lapidaria (Say). 



Banks of Emory River, near Harriman (69283). 



Family VIVIPARID.E Gill. 



68. Vivipara intertexta (Say). 

 Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (69249). 



69. Campeloma ponderosum (Say). 



Tennessee River, near Chattanooga (69232, 69236, 69237); 

 Holston River, 1 mile above French Broad (69259, 69260) ; Ten- 

 nessee River, near Knoxville (69258) ; Clinch River, below Pat- 

 ton's Ferry (69261) ; Indian shell heap, Williams Island (69231). 



70. Campeloma subsolidum (Anth.). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake (69233, 69234, 69235) ; Big Harpeth 

 River, near Bellevue (69263). 



71. Campeloma geniculum (Conr.). 



Emory River, near Harriman (69262). 



72. Lioplax subcarinata (Say). 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue (69238). 



Family PLEUROCERID.S3 Fischer. 



This has long been recognized as one of the most difficult families 

 of American mollusks. Tryon made a good beginning in the in- 

 tricate study of its species in his monograph published by the Smith- 

 sonian Institution in 1872. His conclusions were based upon a 

 study of material from all the principal collections of that time ; 

 and his extensive synonymy has proved in nearly every case which 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



has since been tested to be singularly well judged. It was a splen- 

 did piece of work, considering the time and material available. 

 But Tryon himself, in his later years, saw as clearly as anyone that 

 a vastly greater reduction of species must be made. He told me, in 

 1888, that, as he now saw these shells, there were not more than a 

 tenth as many good species as names. Whether the particular 

 ratio mentioned was deliberately said or not, I do not know : but I 

 incline to the belief that it will prove near the truth. 



These shells must be collected and studied by river-systems ; and 

 it then appears that often the same species occurs in some localities 

 sculptured throughout, in others only on the upper portion, while 

 in still other places only the earlier whorls may show the character- 

 istic sculpture. Some of the species described from one or two 

 decollate examples will be recognized with great difficulty, if at all, 

 in cases where the type locality is not known. 



A cursory glance at the generic scheme in current use reveals 

 some inaccuracies which call for correction. The genera are un- 

 equally related, and, as Tryon has shown, fall into three main 

 groups. They are as follows : 



lo Lea, 1831, type Fusus fluvialis Say. Melafusus Swainson, 

 1840, is a synonym. 



Lithasia Hald., 1840, type Anculosa (Lithasia) geniculata 

 Hald. 



A section of Lithasia is Angitrema Hald., 1841, type Melania ar- 

 migera Say; Glotella Gray, 1847, same type, being a synonym of 

 Angitrema. 



It will be observed that this reverses Tryon's usage, as he places 

 geniculata in Angitrema, and restricts Lithasia to smooth species. 



Angitrema is a connecting link between lo and Lithasia, and 

 seems conchologically about intermediate between the two groups. 



Pleukocera Ratinesque, 1818, type? 



Synonyms : Ceriphasia Swains., 1840, type, C. sulcata Swains. 

 (=P. canaliculatum Say); Trypanosoma Lea, 1862, type M. canal- 

 iculata Sa}', Telescopella Gray, 1837, type Melanin undulata Say. 



Strephobasis Lea, 1861, types S. spillmani, cornea and clarkii Lea 

 (all =plena Anth.), is a section of Pleurocera. 



Elimia H. & A. Adams, 1854, type M. acutocarinata Lea. 



Synonyms : Melasma H. & A. Adams, Juga II. & A. Adams, 

 Megara H. & A. Adams, and Goniobasi* Lea, 1862. 



The group of Adams brothers, Elimia, contains incongruous ele- 

 ments, although most of the species named are Gonioba^es. E. cl-> 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



vata " Lea," filwn Lea, spinalis Lea and torta Lea belong to the 

 the prior genus Pleurocera Raf., and, therefore, are to be eliminated 

 from Elimia. Holstonia Lea belongs to the prior genus Lithasia 

 Hald. Apis Lea is a Paehychihis. The other species are true Gon- 

 iobases. 



Gyrotoma Shuttlew., 1845. 



Synonyms Schizostoma and Schizoeheilus Lea (preoc). Apella 

 Mighels, MS., 1860. 



Anculosa Say. 



73. Io spinosa Lea. 



Holston River, 3 miles from Knoxville (69253) ; Tennessee 

 River, near Knoxville (69252) ; Nolachucky River., 5 miles south 

 of Greeneville (69251) ; in the Indian shell heaps, Williams 

 Island, Tennessee River (69255) ; Indian mound, junction Holston 

 and French Broad (69254) ; Indian mound, Patton's Ferry, Nola- 

 chucky River (69265). 



74. Lithasia geniculata Hald. 



Indian shell heaps, Williams Island, Tennessee River (69240) ; 

 Emory River, near Harriman (69242) ; Tennessee River, near 

 Knoxville (69241) ; Clinch River, below Patton's Ferry (69239). 



75. Lithasia verrucosa (Raf.). 



Tennessee River, near Chattanooga (69332) ; Tennessee River, 

 near Knoxville (69247) ; Aboriginal shell heaps, Williams Island 

 (69248) ; shell heap, junction Holston and French Broad Rivers 

 (69264). 



76. Lithasia venusta Lea. 



Big Harpeth River, near Belle vue (69293, 69294). 



77. Lithasia stygia (Say). 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue (69333). 



These shells, while worthy of the Styx when unwashed and black 

 with iron deposit, are of a beautiful green with darker bands when 

 this incrustation is removed. 



78. Pleurocera undulatum (Say). 



Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry (69313) ; Holston River, 1 

 mile above French Broad (69312, 69314). 



Pleurocera undulatum is here understood to cover the following 

 nominal species, all of which seem to be connected by inappreciable 

 degrees when a large series is examined : Melania excurata Con., 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



M. rorata Rve., Trypanosoma spilhnani Lea, T. moniliferum, lo 

 nodosa, lo variabilis, lo nobilis and lo robusia Lea. There are still 

 other forms which will doubtless fall under undulatum as varieties 

 or synonyms. 



79. Pleurocera undulatum nobile (Lea). 



Tennessee River, near Chattanooga (69317) ; Emory River, near 

 Harriman (69316). 



80. Pleurocera undulatum moniliferum (Lea). 



Aboriginal shell heaps, Williams Island, Tennessee River 

 (69315). 



81. Pleurocera canaliculatum (Pay). 



Clinch River, below Patton's Ferry (69368) ; Tennessee River, 

 near Knoxville (69264). 



82. Pleurocera gradatum (Anth.). 



Tennessee River, near Knoxville (69310) ; Holston River, 1 mile 

 above junction with French Broad (69309). 



83. Pleurocera filum (Lea). 



Tennessee River, near Chattanooga (69306) ; Emory River, near 

 Harriman (69308) ; Tennessee River, near Knoxville (69305). 



84. Pleurocera filum var ? 



South Harpeth River, 6 miles from Bellevue (69307). 



85. Pleurocera sp. ? 



Patton's Ferry, Clinch River (69324). 



A peculiar species, not corresponding with any described form, 

 but it may be described in a much worn or truncated condition. 



86. Pleurocera cylindraceum (Lea). 



Emory River, near Harriman (69304.) 



It was described from Roane County. Trypanosoma roahoMe 

 Lea is a synonym of cylindraceum. 



87. Pleurocera hastatum (Anth.). 



Watauga River, below Watauga Station (69318). 



88. Pleurocera alveare (Con.). 



Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry (69311). 



89. Pleurocera unicale (Hald.). 



Nolachucky, four and a half miles south of Greeneville (69319). 



90. Strephobasis lyonii Lea. 



Tennessee River, near Knoxville (69335) ; Holston River, 1 mile 

 above French Broad (69336). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



91. Strephobasis plena (Anth.). 



Tennessee River, Chattanooga (69337) ; Clinch River, above 

 Patton's Ferry (69338). 



S. plena includes as synonyms S. spillmani, clarkil and cornea of 

 Lea, all from the same region and in the same river system. 



Strephobasis is a mere section of Pleurocera, and is reducible to 

 some two or three species. 



92. Goniobasis 3 proxima (Say). 



Watauga River, Watauga Station (69290). 



93. Goniobasis proxima symmetrica (Hald.). 



Doe River, Roan Mountain, 2800 to 4000 ft. (69292) ; Rock 

 Creek, Roan Mountain 3500 ft. (69291). 



The same form occurs plentifully around Cranberry, Mitchell Co. 

 N. C. (Dr. H. Skinner). 



94. Goniobasis laqueata (Say). 



Richland Creek, Belle Mead, near Nashville (69289); South 

 Harpeth River, 6 miles from Bellevue (69348, 69286, 69347) ; Big 

 Harpeth River, near Bellevue (69287, 69288). 



The specimens are not typical, being more like the synonym or vari- 

 ety G. deshayesiana Lea; but there are at least ten other names, 

 probably referable to the same species, leading terms being plicatula. 

 Lea, costulata Lea, cinerella Lea, spar us Lea, cerea Lea, rugosa Lea,. 

 corrugata Lea, circinata Lea, athleta Anth., glauca Anth., lyonii 

 Lea, etc. 



95. Anculosa subglobosa Say. 



Nolachucky River, 6 miles southwest of Greeneville (69342) ; 

 Watauga River, below Watauga Station (69343) ; Doe River, 280Q 

 4000 ft. (69344). 



96. Anculosa harpethensis Pils. Sp. nor. 



Mr. Pilsbry's description is herewith given : — Shell globose, with 

 very short spire and rounded periphery ; olivaceous brown or vel- 

 lowish, the surface with slight growth lines. Whorls 5, the body 

 whorl very convex, impressed in the umbilical region. Aperture 

 livid purplish within the outer lip but slightly sinuous, parietal wall 

 and columella heavily calloused, purple; face of columella con- 

 cave, a projecting angle at union of columellar and basal lips. Alt.. 



3 The familiar generic name is used here for convenience, but it must be re- 

 placed eventually by Elimia H. & A. Adams. 



33 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



9i, diam. 19 mm.: alt. 12, diam. 11mm. The globular form and 

 angulation at base of columella separate this form from A. subglo- 

 bosa. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue (69357). 



97. Anculosa praerosa Say. 



Holston River, 1 mile above French Broad (69244) ; Tennessee 

 River, near Chattanooga (29246) ; Tennessee River, near Knox- 

 ville (69245). Indian mound, Williams Island (69248). 



98. Anculosa ornata Anth. 



Tennessee River, near Knoxville (69340) ; Holston River, 1 mile 

 above French Broad (69339). 



PELECYPODA. 



Family CYRENID.E Fischer. 



99. Sphaerium striatinum (Lam.). 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue (69325); Johnson City (69326). 



100. Sphaerium fabale Prime 



Belle Mead Farm, near Nashville (69328). 



101. Sphaerium transversum (Say). 

 Samburg, Obion Co. (69327). 



102. Sphaerium partumeium (Say). 



Samburg, Reelfoot Lake, Obion Co. (69330). 



103. Pisidium abditum ILild. 

 Knoxville (69331). 



Family UNIONID.ffi. 



104. Unio acuens Lea. 



Tennessee River, Williams Island (67371); Tennessee River, 

 near Knoxville (69372) ; Holston River, 1 mile above French 

 Broad (69373). 



105. Unio alatus Say. 



Tennessee River, above Knoxville (68341). 



106. Unio anodontoides Lea. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue, Davidson Co. (68327). Wolf 

 River, below Shelby Co. (68701). 

 107 Unio arcaeformis Lea. 



Holston River, 1 mile above junction with Tennessee River 

 (68317). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



108. Unio asperrimus Lea. 



Reelfoot Lake, Obion Co. (68340). 



109. Unio biangulatus Lea. 



Tennessee River, above Knoxville (68361) ; Watauga River, 

 below Watauga Station (69370). 

 Described from Caney Fork. 



110. Unio caliginosns Conr. 



Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry (69203). 

 Described from the Red River at Alexandria, La. 



111. Unio capsseformis Lea. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue, Davidson Co. (68369). 

 112 Unio circulus Lea. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue (68381) ; Tennessee River, 

 near Knoxville (68362). 



An Ohio drainage species. 



113. Unio conradianus Lea. (Conradicus Lea). 



Emory River, Harriman (69222) ; Watauga River, near John- 

 son City (69226). 



The specimens are, for the greater part, only very slightly plicate 

 on the posterior slope, far less so than Lea's types. 



114. Unio cooperianus Lea. 



Tennessee River, near Williams Island, below Chattanooga 

 (68375) ; 2 miles above Knoxville (69211) ; Clinch River, above 

 Patton's Ferry (68363). 



115. Unio cornutus Barnes. 



Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry, Roane Co. (68330). 



116. Unio crassidens Lam. 



Holston River, 1 mile above junction with Tennessee River 

 (68365) ; Tennessee River, near Knoxville (68327) ; Tennessee 

 River, near Williams Island, Chattanooga (68347) ; Clinch River, 

 above Patton's Ferry (68337). 



117. Unio cuneolus Lea. 



Emory River, Harriman (69201). 

 Described from the Holston. 



118 Unio cylindricus Say. 



Holston River, 1 mile above junction with Tennessee River 

 (68342). 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



119. Unio dromas Lea. 



Holston River, 1 mile above junction with Tennessee River 

 (68313) ; Tennessee River, near Williams Island, Chattanooga 

 (68323) ; Tennessee River, near Knoxville (68326). 



120. Unio edgarianus Lea. 



Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry (69206). 



One of the specimens collected has the lateral teeth reversed. 



121. Unio elegans Lea. 

 Reelfoot Lake (68376). 



The specimens have numerous greenish rays in place of the usual 

 V-like maculation. 



122. Unio fascinans Lea (fassinans). 



Watauga River, below Watauga Station (68387). 



123. Unio gibbosus Barnes. 



Tennessee River, near Williams Island, Chattanooga (68315) * 

 Tennessee River, above Knoxville (68324) ; Holston River, 1 mile 

 above junction with Tennessee River (68370) ; Clinch River, above 

 Patton's Ferry, Roane Co. (68314) ; Emory River, near Harriman, 

 Roane Co. (68339) ; Watauga River, near Johnson City, Washing- 

 ton Co. (68325). 



Shells smaller than those of the northern Mississippi Valley, and 

 often light salmon inside, especially in the Holston River speci- 

 mens. 



124. Unio glans Lea. 



Emory River, near Harriman (69377). 



Two specimens of somewhat doubtful specific identity. 



125. Unio gracilis Barnes. 



Wolf River, below Raleigh, Shelby Co. (68700) ; Holston River, 

 1 mile above junction with French Broad (69200). 



126. Unio haysianus Lea. 



Tennessee River, 2 miles above Knoxville (69199). 

 Described from the Cumberland River. 



127. Unio irroratus Lea. 



Holston River, 1 mile above Junction with Tennessee River 

 (68354). 



128. Unio kirtlandianus Leu. 



Watauga River, near Johnson City (69201). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



129. TJnio lawi Lea. 



Emory River, Harriman (69223). 



Described from the Tennessee River, Tuscumbia, Ala., and the 

 Holston. 



130. Unio ligamentinus Lam, 



Holston River, 1 mile above junction with Tennessee River 

 (68335) ; Tennessee River, near Williams Island, Chattanooga, 

 (68348) ; Tennessee River, above Knoxville (68368) ; Clinch 

 River, above Patton's Ferry, Roane Co. (68360) ; Harpeth River, 

 6 miles south of Bellevue (68699). 



The shells are constantly smaller and rounder than in specimens 

 of Illinois and Iowa. 



131. Unio muhlfeldtianus Lea. 



Watauga River, near Johnson City (69225). 

 Described from the Cumberland River. 



132. Unio multiradiatus Lea. 



Emory River, near Harriman, Roane Co. (68318) ; Clinch 

 River, above Patton's Ferry, Roane Co. (68338) ; Watauga River, 

 near Johnson City, Washington Co. (68336). 



133. Unio obliquus Lam. 



Holston River, 1 mile above junction with French Broad 

 (69217) ; Tennessee River, near Chattanooga (6921-4). 



134. Unio ovatus Say. 



Tennessee River, 2 miles above Knoxville (69279) ; Holston 

 River, 1 mile above junction with French Broad (69218). 



135. Unio parvus Say. 



Reelfoot Lake, Obion Co. (68359). 



136. Unio phaseolus Hild. 



Tennessee River, near Chattanooga (69202) ; Emory River, near 

 Harriman (69369). 



137. Unio pictus Lea. 



South Harpeth River, 6 miles from Bellevue (68385). 

 This was described from Harpeth River specimens. 



138. Unio pilaris Lea. 



Tennessee River, 2 miles above Knoxville (69213) ; Holston 

 River, 1 mile above junction of French Broad (69219); Clinch 

 River above Patton's Ferry. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



139. TJnio plicatus Lesueur. 



Reelfoot Lake, Samburg, Obion Co. (68377). 



140. Unio propinquus Lea. 



Tennessee River 2 miles above Knoxville (69212) ; Holston 

 River, 1 mile above junction with French Broad (69220) ; Clinch 

 River, above Patton's Ferry (68353). 



This species was described from Florence and Tuscumbia, Ala- 

 bama, localities far to the southwest of the above. 



141. TJnio purpuratus Lam. 



Wolf River, near Raleigh (68702). 

 Characteristic specimens of this southwestern form. 



142. Unio pustulosus Lea. 



Reelfoot Lake, Obion Co. (68366) ; Holston River, 1 mile above 

 junction with Tennessee River (68367) ; Clinch River, above Pat- 

 ton's Ferry (68363). 



143. TJnio pybasii Lea. 



Emory River, Harriman (69196) ; South Harpeth River, 6 miles 

 from Bellevue (69195) ; Watauga River, near Johnson City (69193). 

 Lea's specimens were from Tuscumbia, Ala. 



144. TJnio pyramidatus Lea. 



Holston River, 1 mile above junction with French Broad (68364) ; 

 Tennessee River, 2 miles above Knoxville (69205) ; Clinch River, 

 above Patton's Ferry (69207). 



145. TJnio rectus Lain. 



Holston River, 1 mile above junction with Tennessee River 

 (68372). 



146. TJnio rubiginosus Lea. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue (68358) ; South Harpeth 

 River, 6 miles south of Bellevue (68316). 



147. TJnio securis Lea. 



Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry (68331). 



148. TJnio sphaericus Lea (?). 



Tennessee River, near Williams Island, Chattanooga (68373). 



149. TJnio subrostratus Say. 



Reelfoot Lake, Samburg, Obion Co. (69194). 



150. TJnio subtentus Say. 



South Harpeth River, 6 miles from Bellevue (68704) : Tennessee 

 River, above Knoxville (68371). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



151. Unio texasensis Lea. 



Reelfoot Lake, Samburg (69215). 



Much larger than the typical form from central Texas, length 

 56, breadth, 30 mm. 



152. Unio trapezoides Lea. 



Reelfoot Lake, Samburg (69216). 



Two young specimens. The species has not before been reported 

 from so far north, east of the Mississippi, so far as I know. 



153. Unio triangularis Barnes. 



Tennessee River, above Knoxville (68378). 



154. Unio tuberculatus Barnes. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue, Davidson Co. (68345) ; Wolf 

 River, below Raleigh, Shelby Co. (68703). 



The specimens from the Big Harpeth belong to the large, densely 

 pustulose, white nacred, northern race. 



155. Unio tumescens Lea. 



Tennessee River, near Knoxville (69374) ; Emory River, Harri- 

 man (69375) ; Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry (69376). 

 Described by Lea from Alexandria, La. 



156. Unio turgidus Lea. 



Wolf River, near Raleigh (68384). 

 Described from New Orleans. 



157. Unio undulatus Barnes. 



Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry (69209) ; Big Harpeth River, 

 near Bellevue (68344). 



On account of the prior Unio undulatus Say (now Alasmodonta 

 undulatd), the name of this well-known species must be changed. 



158. Unio ventricosus Barnes. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue, Davidson Co. (68328). 



159. Unio verrucosus Barnes. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue, (68343) ; Tennessee River, 

 above Knoxville (68349); Holston River, 1 mile above junction 

 with Tennessee River (68350). 



160. Alasmodonta complanata Barnes. 5 



5 The diverse origin of various elements of the so called genus Margaritana 

 has been demonstrated by Mr. C. T. Simpson. It is practically certain that 

 the group of M. complanata, rugosa, etc., arose from a different stock of Unio 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue (68346). 



161. Alasmodonta confragosa Say. 

 Reelfoot Lake, Obion Co. (68356). 



162. Alasmodonta edentula Say. 



Big Harpeth River, near Bellevue (68380) ; Watauga River, 

 near Johnson City (68379). 



Very large specimens, length 12.7 cm., from the Big Harpeth. 

 Probably not specifically distinct from A. pennsylvanica Lam. of 

 the Middle States. 



163. Alasmodonta marginata Say. 



Clinch River, above Patton's Ferry (68332) ; Watauga River, 

 near Johnson City (68321). 



164. Alasmodonta minor (Lea). 



South Harpeth River River, 6 miles from Bellevue (69228). 



165. Alasmodonta rugosa Bar. 



Tennessee River, 2 miles above Knoxville (69229) ; Big Harpeth 

 River, near Bellevue (68333); Watauga River, near Johnson City 

 (68320). 



166. Anodonta grandis Say. 



Reelfoot Lake, Obion Co. (68382). 



167. Anodonta harpethensis Lea. 



Harpeth River, near Bellevue (69230). 



168. Anodonta suborbiculata Say. 

 Reelfoot Lake, Obion Co. (68351). 



169. Anodonta imbeoilis Say. 



Reelfoot Lake, Obion Co. (68322). 



Summary: Pelecypoda, 71 species; aquatic Gastropoda, 41 spec- 

 ies ; terrestrial Gastropoda, 54 species. 



from the AT. margaritifera and monodonta ; anil Simpson finds numbers of 

 other incongruous elements. 



We are hardly prepared, however, to merge the various groups of " Mar- 

 garitana" in Unio. Among other disadvantages, a great many specific names 

 would require change, such as the first one of this list : and then, there is a 

 real difference (in the hinge teeth) which would be without recognition in 

 nomenclature. It seems to as that although there area tew forms, such as 

 Unio pressus, in which this distinction is obscure, still in the great majority it 

 holds. The subject is a complex one, which should not be decided hastily, 

 and we can well afford to postpone wholesale changes in Bpecific n. menelatnre 

 until Simpson, von Ihering and other specialists who are now working upon 

 the Unionidse with such gratifying results, shall have arrived at a thoroughly 

 mature classification. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



FOSSIL BONES OF BIRDS AND MAMMALS FROM GROTTO PIETRO 

 TAMPONI AND GRIVE-ST. ALBAN. 



BY R. W. SHUFELDT, M. D. 



For some time past the writer has had in his possession a small 

 collection of fossil bones that were kindly submitted to him by Mr. 

 Jno. Eyerman, of Easton, Pennsylvania, to whose cabinet they be- 

 long. 



These fossil bones are from birds and mammals, and were ob- 

 tained from two very different localities, the smaller lot of the two 

 having been collected at the Grotto Pietro Tamponi, and the re- 

 mainder of them at Grive-St. Alhan, in France. In his letter of 

 transmittal, Mr. Eyerman invites my attention to the fact that the 

 celebrated locality, Grive-St. Alban, ''is situated in the department 

 of Isere, France, the deposits belonging to the upper division of the 

 Middle Miocene. European geologists have arranged the Middle 

 Miocene into two divisions, of which the upper is distributed princi- 

 pally in isolated patches throughout France, although these deposits 

 are also found in Germany and in the Vienna Basin." 



" Grive-St. Alban is justly famous for the large number and great 

 variety of mammalian remains found in its beds, of which we have 

 Listriodon, Hyotherium, Palceomeryx, Micromeryx, Dicroceros of the 

 Artiodactyla, as well as the earliest antelope, Protragoceros. Of the 

 Perissodactyla there are the hornless rhinoceros, Aceratherium, 

 Chalicotherium. Of the Proboscidea there is the Mastodon angusti- 

 dens. The Rodentia is represented by Lagomys, Myoxus, Sciurus, 

 Chalicomys and the large Dormouse, Cricetodon. The Carnivora 

 by Viverra, Imtra, Dlnocyon; the sabre-tooth tiger, Machaerodus ; 

 the mongoose, Berpestes, and the disputed genus Haplogale of 

 Sclosser. The Insectivores by Plesiosorex, Erinaceus and Talpa, 

 and, finally, the fossil Gibbon, Hylobates." 



In the second locality, or that of Tavolara, we find the "Grotto 

 Pietro Tamponi, consisting of several chambers, and situated on 

 the small Island of Tavolara, in the Gulf of Terranova, a few miles 

 off the northeast coast of Sardinia. The upper chamber of this 

 grotto contains numerous remains of the rodent Lagomys sardus 

 (Giebel's variety corsicanus). The lower chamber has produced the 

 avian remains." 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Taking these specimens by their original numbers, I find them to 

 be as represented in the following list : — 



1. The left carpo-metacarpus of a bird. 



2. The left radius of a bird. 



3. The right tibio-tarsus of a bird. 



4. The right ulna of a bird. 



5. Right and left femora; birds. 



6. Right and left humeri; birds. 



7. The right femur of a mammal. 



8. The right coracoid of a bird. 



9. The right tibio-tarsus of a bird. 



10. The right tarso-metatarsus of a bird ; also the right ul>ta of a 



mammal. 



11. The right tibio-tarsus of a bird. 



12. Portion of the upper third of the right tibio-tarsus of a bird. 



13. The distal moiety of the left tarso-metatarsus of a bird. 



14. The proximal moiety of the ungual phalanx of a small mam- 



mal (carnivore). 



15. The proximal third of the left carpo-metacarpus of a bird. 



16. The distal extremity of the left tarso-metatarsus of a bird. 



17. The left humerus of a bird. 



18. The upper' two-thirds of the right tarso-metatarsus of & bird (in 



two fragments). 



19. The right carpo-metacarpus of a bird (not perfect). 



20. Two carpo-metacarpi of birds, both from right side, perfect and 



very small. 



21. The right humerus of a bird. 



22. The right humerus of a bird. 



23. The proximal moiety of the right humerus of a bird. 



24. The proximal moiety of the left tarso-metatarsus of a bird. 



25. The left humerus of a bird. 



26. The left ulna of a bird. 



27. The distal extremity of the left (?) femur of a mammal. 



28. Not received. 



29. Not received. 



30. The distal extremity of the right tarso-metatarsus of a bird 



(two fragments). 



31. The distal extremity of the left tarso-metatarsus of a bird (in 



two fragments). 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



These specimens are all from adult individuals of the various spe- 

 cies they represent; they are, furthermore, thoroughly fossilized ; 

 free from any matrix, save in a few instances where a thin layer of 

 a dark-colored incrustation spreads over the ends of some of the 

 long and other bones. They are very light in color, and, upon the 

 whole, quite perfect. Some are thoroughly so, as, for example, Nos. 

 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 20, others exhibit a little chipping at 

 the extremities, or have other slight imperfections, as, for example, 

 Nos. 11, 17, 19, 21, 22, 25 and 26; while, finally, the balance are 

 more or less fragmentary, as set forth in the above list. 



No. 7 is a femur that apparently belonged to a medium-sized 

 rodent, but as I have not the proper material wherewith to compare 

 it, it is impossible for me to identify the species. It has a total 

 length of 4.9 centimeters, and presents the usual characters seen 

 in a small rodent's femur, as that, for example, of one of the 

 Sciuridse, or some of their near allies. 



The tdna in lot No. 10, and the end of the femur in No. 27, also 

 belong to small mammals, but, from lack of material, I am unable 

 to identify them. The first-mentioned specimen has a length of 4 

 centimeters, while the last is fragmentary, and I take it to be a 

 mammal from the fact that no fibular notch exists in the posterior 

 aspect of the external condyle — a common avian character. 



A study of specimens Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, the tarso-metatar- 

 sus of lot No. 10 and No. 11, convinced me that they had one and 

 all belonged to species of Shearwater (Puffinus). This conviction 

 was arrived at after comparing the bones with those of a skeleton of 

 Puffinus borealis, 1 and with the figures and descriptions given us by 

 Professor Alf. Milne Edwards in his Recherches sur les Oiseaux Fos- 

 siles de la France. 2 Furthermore, the tibio-tarsus No. 3 agreed ex- 

 actly in length and in characters with the specimen No. 9, while in 

 the case of the femora in lot No. 5, and the humeri in lot No. 6, 

 although they agreed in characters, differed in either case, somewhat 

 in length. This, however, amounted to but very little ; for example, 

 one of the femora measured 4.0 cms. in length, and the other 3.9 

 cms. in length, whereas, in the case of the humeri, this difference is 

 a little greater, one having a length of 7.9 cms. and the other only 

 7.5 cms. 



1 Mounted Coll. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 17,772. 



1 Planches 49-53 incl. Atlas I, where the bones of Puffinus cinereus are 

 figured, and in Texte I, p. 301, el seq. where they are, with others, described. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Disregarding the cnemial projection or process, and measuring 

 the length of the bone from the summit to the lowermost point of the 

 outer condyle, we found that the tibio-tarsus of No. 3 has a length 

 of 6.7 cms., while a similar measurement of the tibio-tarsus No. 11 

 is found to be 7.4 cms. In this latter specimen the cnemial process 

 has been broken off and lost. So great a distance as this leads me 

 to believe that this longer bone belonged to a different species of 

 Puffinus, and that the tarso-metatarsus, marked No. 10, probably 

 belonged to the same species. Indeed, I believe that the bones Nos. 

 10 and 11 belonged to the same individual, inasmuch as they articu- 

 late perfectly when brought together. 



So far as I have been able to discover, there have been but few 

 remains of fossil bones of the genus Puffin us described. Two of these 

 are to be found in M. Milne-Ed wards's work (Oiseaux Fossiles de la 

 France, T. II), where, upon page 588, he says, "Le Puffinus conradi 

 provient du Miocene du Maryland ; ses dimensions se rapprochaient 

 de celles du Puffin cendre (Puffinus einereus Gnielin), de la cote oc- 

 cidental d'Amerique ; " and again, on page 572, in speaking of 

 Puffinus arvernensis ( rare a Langy), he says, " Cette eapece, ayant 

 ete decouverte depuis la publication du chapitre relatif mix oiseaux 

 fossiles de cette famille, sera d£crite et figuree dans un travail sup- 

 ple' men taire." Upon comparing the bones before me with the fig- 

 ures of the corresponding ones of Puffinus einereus as given us by 

 Milne-Edwards, I find that the latter species is very considerably 

 larger than were either of the former, so that bones Nos. 10 and 11 

 did not belong to a specimen of* Puffinus conradi. In order to make 

 certain that M. Milne-Edwards had not described Puffinus arvern- 

 ensis, I wrote him concerning that species, and received the follow- 

 ing reply, accompanied by the drawings he mentions (Plate XNI V, 

 figs. 1 and 2), for both of which distinguished favors my most sincere 

 thanks are here tendered. 



Museum I >' II istoire Naturelle. Direction. 



Q Juillet 1896. 

 Cher Monsieur: 



Je m' empresse de vousenvoyer un dessin du tarso-nu'tatarsien du 

 Puffinus arvernensis de St. Gerand le Puy. Je dois decrire cette 

 espece dans un supplement a mon Oiseaux fossiles mais vouspouvei 

 faire tel usage qui vous conviendrai du dessin et le publier si vous le 

 desirez ; il est fait de grandeur naturelle. 



Croyez, cher Monsieur, a mon sentiments fares distingues, 



A. Milne-Edwards. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



Unfortunately, among the bones of the smaller species of Puffinus 

 before me there occurred no specimen of a tarso-metatarsus, so that 

 I am unable to say whether they belong to the species described 

 by Professor Milne-Edwards as Puffinus arvemensis, or not. Never- 

 theless, upon measuring across the condyles at their lower aspects, 

 and taking a similar transverse diameter of the summit of the tarso- 

 metatarsus in Professor Milne-Edwards' drawing, it becomes evident 

 that Puffinus arvemensis must have had a tibio-tarsus quite like the 

 one shown in figure 9 of the plate. In other words, I believe the 

 fossil bones of the smaller species of Puffinus in Mr. Eyerman's col- 

 lection very probably belonged to one or two individuals of the 

 type referred to by Professor Milne-Edwards as P. arvemensis, 

 which species is based upon the tarso-metatarsus shown in figures 1 

 and 2. In any event, there is so much likelihood of this being the 

 case, that I do not, at present, feel justified in describing these bones 

 as having belonged to a species unknown to science up to the pres- 

 ent writing. These bones have all the characters of the correspond- 

 ing ones as found in the skeleton of the Shearwater (P. borealis) be- 

 fore me, with the exception of some differences in the tibio-tarsi and 

 the humeri. In the former the cnemial crests are much produced 

 upward, as in Puffinus cinereus, and call to mind this bone in 

 the Grebes; while in the latter, there is a very remarkable flatten- 

 ing of the bone in the same plane in which the radial crest lies. 

 This flattening is well-shown in figure 7 of the plate. 



As has already been said above, the tarso-metatarsus in lot No. 

 10 and the tibio-tarsus No. 11, undoubtedly belonged to a larger 

 species of Puffinus, and one probably smaller than the P. conradi of 

 Marsh : in fact, to a form having a size between P. arvemensis and 

 P. conradi and hitherto undescribed. Therefore, I propose the fol- 

 lowing for this species : — 

 Puffinus eyermani n. Bp. 



Based on a tibio-tarsus and a tarso-metatarsus, both of the right 

 side. They belonged to adult individuals, or, what is more likely, 

 to the one and same individual, as the bones articulate together 

 perfectly. Disregarding the fractured remains of the cnemial crest 

 of the tibio-tarsus, and measuring between summit and lowest point 

 of condyle, this bone has a length of 7.4 cms, while the tarso-meta- 

 tarsus is 5.2 cms. long. They both present characters agreeing in 

 the main with the corresponding ones in Puffinus cinereus Gmel. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The shaft of the tibio-tarsus is somewhat flattened or compressed in 

 the antero-posterior direction, and its distal third, to some degree, 

 curves gently mesiad. The fibular ridge is well-marked, and occu- 

 pies rather more than the upper third of the external border of the 

 bone. Distally, we find the usual osseous bridgelet spanning the 

 deep tendinal groove upon the anterior aspect. In the intercondy- 

 lar space, posteriorly, there is a faint indication of a median longi- 

 tudinal ridge, that is also visible in Puffimis borealis (fig. 8). The 

 tarso-metatarsus (Plate XXIV, figs. 3 and 4) is straight, and is grooved 

 for tendons the entire length of its anterior face, and faintly so upon 

 its posterior aspect. Distally the mid-trochlear process is placed the 

 lowest on the end of the shaft, while the internal one is the highest, 

 and is directed backward and slightly inward. The hypotarsus is 

 well-developed and is twice vertically pierced for the passage of 

 tendons, while faint groovings also exist upon its postero-external 

 surface. In the fossa at the proximal end of the bone, just below 

 •the summit, are two small foramina piercing the shaft from before 

 backward. The sides of the shaft are flat. 



These bones were discovered in the Grotto Pietro Tamponi, Tavo- 

 lara, an island in the Gulf of Terranova, a few miles off the north- 

 east coast of Sardinia. 



The species is extinct, and it gives me pleasure to name it in 

 honor of the well-known paleontologist, John Eyerman, Esq., of 

 Easton, Pennsylvania, in whose collection the specimens, at the 

 present writing, belong. 



The specimen marked No. 12, represents the upper part of the 

 right tibio-tarsus of a bird of some considerable size (see fig. 1 of 

 the text). Its procnemial process is slightly broken away above, 

 and the free margin of the summit of the bone behind is also chipped 

 away. 



We have in the National Museum a great number of specimens 

 of the fossil bones of birds received several years ago from Profes^r 

 Alf. Milne-Edwards, and among these, numerous examples of the 

 long bones of Palceolodus erassipes, P. ambiguus and others of the 

 genus, but this bone did not belong to a Palceolodiis. Upon com- 

 paring with such material as I had of Pelecanus gracilis, it was 

 quickly seen that it never came from a Pelican, and the fact was 

 further confirmed by carefully comparing it with the tibio-tarsi of 

 numerous species of existing forms of that group. In short it has 

 been compared by me with every figure of the larger birds where 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



513 



•the tibio tarsus has been figured, in all the works at hand, as 

 well as with the tibio-tarsi of representative 

 groups of existing types. 



By differential diagnosis, I am satisfied 

 that its owner was a Tantalus, and that too, 

 very near Tantalus loculator. Moreover it 

 was a Tantalus of almost precisely the same 

 size as T. loculator, and its tibio-tarsus pre- 

 sents characters agreeing very closely with 

 that species. The agreement is so close 

 that it would appear unnecessary to remove 

 it from that genus, I therefore propose the 

 following : 

 Tantalus milne-edwardsii n. sp. 



Based upon the upper part of the right 

 tibio-tarsus (nearly complete). Characters 

 as in Tantalus loculator, to which latter 

 species, the present one must have been 

 closely related. This species I name in 

 honor of the very distinguished French 

 savant Professor Alphonse Milne Edwards, 



of^e Ubio A ta!-l°of a S- who not ^ haS assisted » ie iu the P' esent 



talus milne-edwardxii, being paper, but to whom modern science owes so 



the upper part from the h • SQ m departments. 



right leg. iNatural size; . 



drawn by the author. 3 The specimen was collected at Grive- 



St. Alban (Isere), and it is at this writing in the collection of 

 Mr. Jno. Eyerman, of Easton, Pennsylvania, U. S. A. 4 



Specimen No. 13, (the lower half of a bird's tarso- metatarsus, 

 from the right pelvic limb), evidently belonged to some adult, me- 

 dium sized species of a falconine form, probably now extinct. As I 

 have not the proper material in sufficient quantity to compare this 

 specimen with, I do not feel warranted in naming it. 



'After this drawing was made, two other small fragments were found that, 

 when placed in situ, simply completed the distal broken part of this fragment. 



* In comparing this bone, the following works and the plates and tigures 

 thereto were also examined. Cuvier : Recherches sur les ossements fossiles, 

 t. Ill, p. 327, pi. LXXIII, fig. 14 (Ibis) ; P. Gervais : Oiseaux fossiles, these, 

 1844, p. 39; Idem, Jour. 1. Institut., 1844, p. 293; Idem, Zoologie et Palaeon- 

 tologie francaises, 1st edit., p. 230, pi. XL1X, tigs. 2, 3, p. L, fig. 1 (Nume- 

 nius gypsorum) ; 2d ed., 1859, p. 410; Giebel : Fauna der Vorwelt, 1847, t. 

 II, p. 28 {Tantalus fossi/is). I think the specimen here alluded to is either 

 a.Numenius or an Ibis, surely not a Tantalus. 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



For specimen No. 14, see list above ; too fragmentary for correct 

 identification. To be named with certainty, No. 15 is also too frag- 

 mentary ; while the remarks about specimen No. 15, apply with 

 equal truth to No. 16, though this last has hardly anything beyond 

 the trochlear processes, the distal part of the shaft having been 

 broken off, but a few millimeters above the usual foramen found in 

 this locality. 



Specimen No. 17 is a very perfect one, being the left humerus of 

 an adult Partridge, Palceortyx brevipes of Milne-Edwards. 5 It de- 

 mands no special description. 



In specimen No. 18, we have the fragments of the upper two- 

 thirds of the right tarso-metatarsus, (probably) of some small pas- 

 serine bird, which my meagre material for comparison will not 

 admit of my identifying. On this bone the hypotarsug is short, be- 

 ing composed of two lateral portions enclosing a tendinal foraminal 

 canal between them. Both of these lateral portions are distinctly 

 grooved in the vertical direction, upon their posterior aspects, by 

 tendinal channels. To identify such a minute, fragmentary speci- 

 men as this, one should have before him for comparison the skele- 

 tons of a representative series of the small birds of France in its 

 existing avifauna, as well as access to such fossil forms as have been 

 discovered or described up to date. To appreciate the difficulty of 

 diagnosis of this nature one has but to make the trial to distinguish 

 the complete skeleton of any one of our American AYarblers from 

 those of its near allies in other genera, and my meaning will be 

 made clear. How much more difficult is it then to name, with any 

 hope whatever of being near the truth, the bits of bones of birds of 

 no greater size that existed in a former geologic age of the earth. 

 With skulls, sterna, pelvis and perfect bones all absent this really be- 

 comes impossible — absolutely so in the absence of the material above 

 indicated. 



These remarks apply with equal truth to specimen- Nos. 19-23 

 inclusive; the small pair of carpo-metacarpi (No. 20) in this series 

 are the smallest fossil bones of this part of the skeleton I have ever 

 seen ; either one of them is as small as the unidentified specimen of 

 this bone in Milne-Edwards' great work, and figured on Plate 155, 

 (Atlas 2, fig. 11) ; they are, however, from a different species. 



5 See Recherches sur les Oiseaux fossiles de la France, Atlas 2, Plate 130, fig. 

 13. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



The fragment of bone in specimen No. 24 is from an Owl — the 

 extiuct Bubo arvernensis of Milne-Edwards (see Oiseaux fossiles, At- 

 las 2, Plate 192, figs. 11 and 15). 



No. 25 is the humerus of some medium-sized bird equal to about 

 that of Tringa gracilis of Milne-Edwards, but it did not belong to 

 that species. It is non-pneumatic, with characters in many in- 

 spects agreeing with the humeri of small water birds, as plovers or 

 sand pipers, but it lacks the epicondyloid process possessed by this 

 bone in both Gulls and Tringce. It has a length of 3.5 centimeters. 

 I do not care to pronounce upon it before comparing with fuller 

 material. 



No. 26, a small bird's ulna, but 2.1 centimeters long and with a 

 very sharp olecranon process, comes in the same category as Nos. 

 19-23, (see remarks above). Its shaft is distinctly marked by 6 

 papilla? for the quill-butts of the secondary feathers, they being 

 about 2 mm. apart. 



The bones in Nos. 30 and 31 are the distal ends of the tarso-m eta- 

 tarsi of small Gulls of the genus Lotus. The first I take to have 

 belonged to an individual of the extinct species Larus totanoides* 

 aud the other to the somewhat smaller species Larus elegans both of 

 Milne-Edwards. 7 I am the more convinced of this, inasmuch as I 

 have compared them, at least in the case of Larus elegans, with a 

 number of the fossil tarso-metatarsi of that extinct form in the pal- 

 aeontological collections of the U. S. National Museum, and the 

 agreement is altogether too close to admit of any doubt. 



Explanation of Plate XXIV. 



Fig. 1. Left tarso-metatarsus of Puffinus arvernensis, anterior aspect, 

 natural size. From a drawing by Prof. Alphonse Milne- 

 Edwards. 



Fig. 2. Left tarso-metatarsus of Puffinus arvernensis. Same bone as 

 shown in figure 1. Natural size, and viewed upon its exter- 

 no-lateral aspect. 



Fig. 3. Right tarso-metatarsus of Puffinus eyennani, anterior aspect, 

 natural size. Drawn by the author. 



Fig. 4. Eight tarso-metatarsus of Puffinus eyennani. Same bone as 

 shown in figure 3. Natural size and viewed upon its exter. 

 no-lateral aspect. Drawn by the author. 



6 Oiseaux fossiles, Atlas 1, Planche 57, fig. 12. 



7 Loc. cit., Planche 56, fig. 11. 



34 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Fi°\ 5. Right coracoid of Puffinus arvernensis (?), anterior aspect, 



natural size. 

 Fig. 6. Anconal aspect of the left humerus of Puffinus arvernensis 



(?), uatural size. 

 Fig. 7. Ulnar surface of the left humerus of Puffimis arvernensis (?), 



natural size. 

 Fig. 8. Right tibio-tarsus of Puffinus eyermani, natural size and 



viewed upon its anterior aspect. Cnemial process restored 



in dotted line. 

 Fig. 9. Rigbt tibio-tarsus of Puffinus arvernensis (?), natural size, 



and viewed upon its anterior aspect. Figures 5-9 inclusive, 



drawn by the author. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



MAMMALS COLLECTED BY DE. A. DONALDSON SMITH DUEING HIS 

 EXPEDITION TO LAKE RUDOLF, AFRICA. 1 



By Samuel N. Rhoads. 



In the following annotated list of the mammals collected bv Dr. 

 A. Donaldson Smith during his African expedition of 1894-'9o 

 across Somaliland to Lake Rudolf, I have included all the species 

 coming under my observation which were brought back by Dr. 

 Smith to Philadelphia. 



The greater part of the collection was most generously given to 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, but a large part 

 of the skulls, mounted heads and skins of the larger game have been 

 reserved by Dr. Smith, and at present form an exhibition at the 

 University of Pennsylvania. Those species in the list not repre- 

 sented in the donation to the Academy are preceded by ail aster- 

 isk. 



The entire collection represents 50 genera and 77 species, 2 seven of 

 which are here described as new. 



Dr. Smith is to be congratulated on having brought to Philadel- 

 phia by far the largest, most comprehensive and best preserved 

 faunal collection of African mammals ever acquired by an Ameri- 

 can institution, and not only many species, but several genera are 

 for the first time made accessible to students on this side of the 

 Atlantic. 



Owing to the almost total lack of specimens in this country for 

 comparison, and the widely scattered literature relating to African 

 mammalogy, the author has been severely handicapped in his study 

 of the collection, and it is hoped that the paper, as now presented, 

 will be judged accordingly. 



1 At the request of Dr. Smith this paper was originally prepared for 

 publication in his forthcoming book on the Lake Rudolf expedition. Less 

 than three months were alloted the writer for its preparation. The mss. was 

 subsequently returned, with other papers of scientific character intended for 

 the work, on account of lack of space and was then accepted for publication 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



2 This includes four genera and five species of bats, which have been worked 

 up by Dr. Harrison Allen in a separate paper, viz : Megaderma frons, 3ftg- 

 derma cor, Xycteris capemis, Scotopltilus minimus and Adelonycleris sp. ? 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



•1. Hippopotamus amphibius L. Hippopotamus. 



A skull and several incisor teeth are in the University of Penn- 

 sylvania series. 

 *2. Phacochoerus afrioanus (Gmel.). .Elian's Wart Hog. 



A skull and a mounted head are in the University of Pennsylva- 

 nia exhibit. 

 *3. Giraffa camelopardalis (L.). Ethiopian Giraffe. 



The skull of a female, with full head and neck skin to shoulders, 

 was mounted at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 It exhibits the peculiarities defined by Mr. Thomas 3 for the northern 

 form. The application to this form of the name cethiopica of Sun- 

 devall 4 is, however, incorrect, as the camelopardalis of Linnaeus is 

 assigned by that author to " ^Ethiopia and Sennar." 5 This makes 

 Sundevall's name a synonym, the southern race remaining, so far as 

 I can ascertain, unnamed. I would propose for the latter the 

 name Giraffa camelopardalis australis, Nom. nov. 

 *4. Bubalis swaynei Sel. Swayne's Hartebeest. 



Represented by five (?) skulls in the University of Pennsylvania 

 series. 



5. Bubalis cokei (Giinth.). Coke's Hartebeest. 



One pair of horns in the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia (No. 3,933), and four mounted heads in the 

 University of Pennsylvania. 

 *6. Damaliscus jimela (Mtsch.). Topi Antelope. 



One mounted head and one skull in the University of Pennsylva- 

 nia represent this species. 



7. Madoqua guentheri Tbos. Gunther's Dik-dik. 



A mounted male specimen, entire, with skull separate, in the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia series (No. 3,900), be- 

 longs to this very distinct species. While the colors of the back 

 and head closely resemble those of the following (M. phillipsi), the 

 tawny ochraceus tints of the belly of phillipsi constantly distinguish 

 it from the white bellied guentheri. In the Academy's specimen 

 of the latter, the back is quite as gray as in Thomas' and Sclater's 

 figure of phillipsi, 6 not rufous, as there figured. 



3 Proc. Zool. Soc, 1894, p. 135. 



*K. Vet. Akad. Handl., 1844, p. 175. 



6 Syst. Nat., 1758, p. 66 



6 Book of Antelopes, 1896, part V, pi. XXXI. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



8. Madoqua phillipsi. Phillips's Dik-dik. 



Six flat skins and four skulls (Nos. 3,901-3,904), the latter being 

 in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia. 



*9. Oreotragus oreotragus ("Forst.," Schreb.). Klippspringer Antelope. 



A mounted head and an entire skin of this antelope are in the 

 University of Pennsylvania series. 



*10. 1 Kobus ellipsiprymnus (Ogilb.). Common Waterbuck. 



One mounted head in the University of Pennsylvania exhibit. 

 *11. Kobus defassa (Rupp.). Defassa Waterbuck. 



A skull is in the University of Pennsylvania series. 

 *12. Cervicapra sp. ? 



Two pairs of horns with portions of attached skulls indicate this 

 genus too imperfectly to determine the species they represent. 

 13. Gazella thomsoni 7 Gunth. Thomson's Gazelle. 



Two skulls of males and two skins (Nos. 3,898, 3,934, 3,935, 3,994) 

 were given the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The 

 skull of a young male agrees exactly with Peters' figure 8 of a young 

 granti which Gunther made the type of G. j^etersi. A comparison 

 with our series of granti and thomsoni convinces me that peter si is a 

 young thomsoni. 



*14' Gazella soemmerringi berberana (Mtsch.). Soemmerring's Gazelle. 



Several specimens which adorn the University of Pennsylvania 

 collection belong to this race. 



15. Lithocranius walleri (Brooke). Waller's Gazelle. 



Two skulls, male and female, (Nos. 3,896, 3,897), were presented 

 to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Three male 

 heads are in the University of Pennsylvania series. 



*16. Oryx beisa (Rupp.). Beisa Antelope. 



Two mounted heads and four skulls in the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania series. 0. callotis Thos. does not seem to have been met 

 with. 

 *17. Strepsiceros strepsiceros (Pall.). Greater Kudu. 



The University of Pennsylvania contains one mounted head of 

 this species. 



7 Syn., Gazella petersi Gunth , Ann. Mag. N. H., 1884. p. 426. 

 8 Monatsb. Akad. Wis. Berl., 1879, p. 832, PI. V. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



s 18. Strepsiceros imberbis Blyth. Lesser Kudu. 



A head of this animal was taken by Dr. Smith. It is now beauti- 

 fully mounted. 



19. Equus grevyi M. Edw. Grevy's Zebra. 



A remarkably large skull was added to the already fine collection 

 of zebra crania in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. Its greatest length, from the anterior edge of the 

 premaxillary to the superior rim of the occiput, measured in a straight 

 line, is 633 mm. Its greatest zygomatic width is 220 mm. The 

 alveolar length of the upper molar series is 170 mm., and the great- 

 est length of mandible is 507 mm. The specimen is of an old male 

 and, compared with a skull of E. burchelli of same age, is 100 mm. 

 longer, and is nearly 50 mm. longer than the largest skull of E. 

 caballus in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. Compared with that of burchelli the skull of grevyi is 

 remarkahly long for its width, due to the great relative prolongation 

 of the rostral and occipital regions. In burchelli the length of 

 skull is 2.63 times the width, in grevyi it is nearly three (2.88) times 

 the width. The lower molar series differ markedly from burchelli 

 in their uniformly massive size and great width, the same series in 

 burchelli becoming much narrowed posteriorly. In the last named, 

 the postpalatal fossa reaches opposite middle of m. 2, in grevyi it 

 barely reaches opposite the anterior alveolus of m. 3. 

 *20. Rhinoceros bicornis L. Round-eared Rhinoceros. 



Of the smaller two-horned species there is a mounted head and 

 six pairs of horns in the University of Pennsylvania collection. 

 With the exception of one pair, the horns more closely resemble 

 those figured by Smith 9 in his plate of Rhinoceros simus than those of 

 bicornis figured by the same author on plate 2. 



Dr. Smith informs me that while he encountered R. simus, no 

 specimens were brought by him to this country. 



21. Prooavia brucei somalica Thomas. Somali Tree Hyrax. 



An adult female (No. 3,818) taken at "Shebeli" September 4, 

 1894, and another female, two-thirds grown, taken March 3. 1894, 

 fully confirm Dr. Thomas' diagnosis 10 of this subspecies of brucei. 

 Compared with an adult female specimen of brucei from the Kyahn 

 Mountains, near Mount Kilima -Njaro, kindly loaned me by the 



9 111 ust. Zool. S. Afr. 



10 P. Z.S., 1892, p. 71. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



Smithsonian Institution, the paler sandy cast of the Somali speci- 

 mens is very noticeable, and the dorsal spot is almost white instead 

 of ochraceus. The difference in size of skulls, between the type and 

 the subspecies, although the Shebeli specimen is the older, is very 

 marked, but no specific distinctions are noticeable. 



*22. Elephas africanus Blbch. African Elephant. 



Ten small, and one large pair of tusks adorn the University of 

 Pennsylvania collection. 



23. Sciurus sp.? 



An adult male specimen (Xo. 3,810) from Marsabit, taken Sep- 

 tember 11, 1895, differs in many particulars from any African squir- 

 rel which I can find described. It may be characterized as follows : 

 Colors — Upper head, back and the slender tail, dull black, grizzled 

 with tawny brown ; half the hairs of back wholly black, the remain- 

 der black-based with light brown ring and black tip. Brown-ringed 

 hairs more numerous on sides, giving a lighter shade to those parts. 

 Upper and lower sides of tail colored alike, blacker toward distal 

 end ; hairs at base black with one to three light brown rings, termi- 

 nal hairs longer and blacker with now and then a subterminal brown 

 ring. Upper feet and scrotum rusty haired. Whisker patch, 

 cheeks, line around eyes, chin, throat, breast, inside of legs, and a 

 narrow abdominal line dirty tawny white or fawn. Ears sub -tri- 

 angular, colored like back. Fur rather short and harsh. Whis- 

 kers sparse, weak, black. Color of sides encroaching on abdomen. 



Measurements (from skin). — Total length 320 mm. ; tail verte- 

 bras 160 ; pencil 43; hind foot 40. Skull— Total length 40 mm.; 

 greatest breadth 24; length of nasals 11 ; length of mandible 23.5. 



This squirrel apparently comes nearest S. poensis A. Smith, but it 

 lacks any trace of greenish color, is smaller and the tail and body 

 are of equal lengths. Like poensis the live upper molars on each 

 side are well developed and permanent. 



It appears too small and dark for S. cepapi A. Smith. With any 

 of the recently described species it seems to have no close affinities- 



24. Sciurus sp. ? 



A young male squirrel in alcohol, from the Ganana River (Feb- 

 ruary 18, 1895), is colored somewhat like S. annulatus Desm. and 

 S. cepapi Smith. Like cepapi it has five upper molars, but unlike 

 either of the above, its tail vertebra? are more than 1} times the 

 length of the body without the head. The specimen is about two 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1896. 



thirds grown ; its total length is 269 mm., tail vertebra? 150, hind 

 foot 37, tail tuft 40. 



25. Sciurus ganana sp. nov. Ganana Jungle Squirrel. 



Type, ad. 9 , No. 3,809 ; collection of Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia, Dr. A. Donaldson Smith Collection ; taken 

 February 18, 1895, on the Ganana River at Bar Madu. 



Description — Size smallest (?) of the East African squirrels; tail 

 If times length of head and body ; head long and very slender ; ears 

 large, rounded and somewhat pointed, without tufts. Fur soft and 

 rather short. Above, uniform tawny ochre, faintly grizzled with 

 black ; below, tawny white. 



Upper tail colored like back, lower tail with broad mesial stripe 

 of clear, rusty ochre. 



The dorsal hairs are black-based and black-tipped, with a sub- 

 terminal ring of ochre, as are also those of the upper head. On the 

 sides the hairs are black at base with long ochre tips, and on the 

 limbs and feet and sides of neck the ochre almost obscures (exter- 

 nally) the darker basal color. The tawny white hairs of lips, chin, 

 throat, breast, abdomen and inner legs are unicolor to their bases. 

 The region just above and below eyes is of the same color. The 

 "whiskers reach to tip of recumbent ears and are sparse and black. 



The hairs of upper tail are ochre and black, ringed by four to six 

 alternating zones of equal width, the basal one being ochre, the 

 minute terminal one black. The lower mesial tail hairs appear to 

 be uniform rusty ochre, but a glass reveals a narrow, subterminal 

 black ring. The outer border and tip of lower side of tail is like the 

 upper side. 



The skull is remarkably narrow and deep for its length, the post- 

 orbital process very short and blunt, the brain-case highly and nar- 

 rowly arched and the audital bulla? widely separated from the 

 pterygoid processes, owing to the strong, indented constriction of 

 the inner anterior border of the bullae. The auditory meatus is also 

 compressed within the outer lateral plane of the overhanging squa- 

 mosal. Upper molar series with permanent, cylindrie P" 1 - -. 



Measurements (taken by collector, in the flesh) — Total length, 

 320 mm.; tail vertebra?, 170; hind-foot, 38; height of ear (from 

 crown, dry), 9 ; tail pencil, 40. 



Skull— Total length, 39 mm. ; basilar length (of Hensel), 32 ; 

 greatest breadth, 21*5; greatest depth (occiput to plane of bullae and 

 incisors), 17 ; length of nasals, 11 ; post-orbital constriction (behind 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



processes), 12 ; breadth between auditory meatus (lower border), 

 15; greatest length of mandible, 22; greatest breadth of mandible, 

 14. 



One specimen, a skin of an old female, with skull, in good condi- 

 tion, represents this distinctly marked little squirrel. So far as I 

 am able to distinguish, it differs in size, color and cranial characters 

 from any described species. Its relationships are with S. cepapi, 

 but its smaller size, light color and high, narrow, brain case, w r ith 

 long compressed zygomse, separate them. 



On the accompanying label the specimen is stated to have been 

 "shot in the thick jungle on River Ganana. Was accompanied by 

 4 young ones." The well-developed teats, 2 pectoral, 2 abdominal, 

 3 inguinal, show evidence of recent nursing. 



26. Xerus rutilus (Cretzsch.). Abyssinian Spiny Squirrel. 



Three adult skins, with skulls, from Hargesa, taken between the 

 17th and 28th days of July, 1894, are very similar in their colors, 

 being tawny ferruginous, lined with black on crown and along mid- 

 dle back. The rostrum, sides of body and outer sides of limbs area 

 peculiar fleshy cinnamon, each hair being white tipped. Underparts 

 white, with tawny cast due to exposed skin. Hind feet whitish 

 above. Tail, above faded rusty, below brownish black with faded 

 border. Hairs worn and ragged, with new, brown-black, white- 

 tipped hairs sprouting beneath the old, but no evidences of molt on 

 body. 



In another specimen (Ad. $ , No. 3,806), taken August 29, 1894, 

 at Shebeli, the cinnamon of sides is almost obscured by the white 

 hair tips, the back is clear, black-grizzled fawn and the hind head and 

 limbs like sides. The tail in this specimen has quite recently 

 molted and is a beautiful black above, broadly margined and tipped 

 with glistening white. Below there is a mesial stripe of fleshy 

 brown bordered with black and the latter is fringed with white, as 

 above. 



In a very old male, taken March 23, 1895, the back and hind 

 head are much blacker, and the forehead, sides and limbs nearly 

 chestnut-red ; the whisker patch, throat and sides of head, neck and 

 a narrow lateral marginal line, fulvous. The tail is in the molt to 

 the black and white pelage and the old pelage is much darker 

 (brown-black) than in the other specimens and lacks any sign of 

 the mesial band. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Two, quarter-grown young, male and female, in alcohol, are colored 

 like the adults on head and fore-limbs, the rest of the body above is 

 sandy-brown, the outer tail hairs are dull white, the upper vertebral 

 line of tail showing short black and rusty hairs. The tail (without 

 hairs) is about the length of body without head. Its tip is blunt 

 and the whole organ viewed from above is remarkably triangular, 

 measuring across base, in the spirit specimen, about 10 mm. and 

 tapering evenly to the point. The tail is much flattened and 

 a strongly depressed vertebral line above and below separates the 

 thickened, rounded fleshy sides. The external sexual organs of the 

 young male are very sfrongly developed. 



In adult suckling females the teats are very long (8 to 12 mm.), 

 2 abdominal, 2 inguinal. 



Specimens in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



No. 3,804 $ , El Dere, March, 23, 1895. 



No. 3,805 Z t Milmil, July 27, 1894. 



No. 3,806 9,Shebeli, August, 29, 1894. 



No. 3,807 ?, Hargesa, July 17, 1894. 



No. 3,808 9,Hargesa, Inly 18, 1894. 



No. 3,859 Juv. 9 , Hargesa July 18, 1894. 



No. 3,860 Juv. <?, Hargesa, July 18, 1894. 



27. Lophiomys smithi ep. nov. Smith's Maned Rat. Plate XXV. 



Type, Ad. $ , No. 3,803, Museum Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. Collected at Sheikh Ilusein, West Somaliland (about 

 lat. N. 8°, long. E. 41°). Africa, by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, Sept. 

 30, 1894. 



Description — Smaller than L.wihausi; tail shorter than body 

 without head, not tufted. AVhite crown and ear patch separated by 

 a black band. Nasals narrow at base; interorbital width of frontals 

 less than half their postorbital width. Jugal and frontal processes 

 not separated by the squamosal. 



Color — above, from neck to base of tail and down to dividing 

 lateral band of brown, iron-gray, the fur composed of two kinds: 

 first, a very fine silken under fur about 20 mm. long, composed of 

 white hairs, a few of which are wholly white but about 70 per cent, 

 are brownish-black at the basal half. Among these are evenly in- 

 terspersed, in the proportion of about one to eighty, Blender bristling 

 hairs, 60 to 65 mm. long. The basal fifth of these hairs is black, 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



followed by a similar length of white, then a much longer subter- 

 minal one of black, the tip being white. The same style of pelt and 

 coloration is found on the sides, tail, belly and legs, except that the 

 bristling hairs become fewer, almost disappearing on the shoulders 

 and sides of neck and becoming obsolete on the underparts. The 

 tail is unicolor, except a short white tip. There is a well-defined 

 occipital band of black between the anterior bases of ears, forming 

 a V-shaped extension into the middle of the white crown patch and 

 connecting across the anterior base of ear with the black area of 

 cheeks, nose, lower head and supraorbital stripe. There is a faint 

 isolated patch of white halfway up between the eye and the mouth, 

 and a conspicuous patch of the same in front of and below each ear. 

 The feet are sparsely clothed with coarse, black hair, becoming 

 bristly on the toes and exceeding them in length. The whiskers 

 reach almost to shoulders and are wholly jet-black. The backs of 

 ears are very sparsely clothed with short brownish and white hairs, 

 but their margins and inner surfaces are thickly set with bristly 

 white hairs, 3 to 5 mm. long. The lateral band of short spinuous 

 hairs, which divides the dorsal from the costal mane areas, begins 

 broadly and sharply at the base of the neck on a line with the ear, 

 and terminates indefinitely near the sacrum in a slender point of 

 hairs. The larger of the hairs measure about 20 mm. long and are 

 olivaceous brown, becoming rusty near the tips, with whitish sub- 

 terminal ring and minute black tip. The median abdominal and 

 pectoral areas are blacker than the sides. 



Measurements (of body, taken in flesh before skinning, by the 

 collector) — Total length, 380 mm ; tail vertebra?, 140 ; hind foot 40 ; 

 ear (from crown, dry skin), 12.5. 



Skull — Total length, 52 ; basilar length (of Hensel), 46 ; greatest 

 breadth, 31; interorbital constriction, 10; length of nasals, 16; 

 greatest breadth (anterior) of nasals, 6.8 ; basal breadth of nasals, 

 5 ; length of upper molar series (alveolar), 12.2 ; length of mandi- 

 ble, 34; breadth of mandible, 15.2. 



A fine skin of a male, with perfect skull, forms one of the most 

 valuable treasures in Dr. Smith's collection. It was taken at Sheikh 

 Husein, September 30, 1894, and is now mounted and deposited in 

 the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 The skull forms a separate presentation (No. 3,803) in the Acad- 

 emy's collection. 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



According to Giglioli, 11 there were only four specimens of Lophio- 

 mys known to have been taken, up to 1881 : 



1. Skin, skeleton and viscera (Aden, I806). Type in Paris Mu- 

 seum. 



2. Skull (Mam an, 1867). Type of Phractomys icthiopicus Peters, 

 in Berlin Museum. 



3. Mounted skin and skeleton (Keren, Bogos 1870). In the Ge- 

 noa Civic Museum. 



4. Skin and skull (Erkanid near Suakin, 1881). In the Flor- 

 ence Zoological Museum. 



Dr. Smith's specimen appears to he the fifth. It is certainly the 

 first to reach an American museum. 



Compared with Milne-Edwards' illustrations 12 of the type of im- 

 hausi, the Smith specimen is somewhat younger and smaller, with 

 much shorter tail, though fully adult. The pelage is more worn or 

 naturally shorter than in the type, and consequently is appreciably 

 lighter colored throughout, owing to the more exposed bases of the 

 fur. The tail almost wholly lacks the white tip, and the head the 

 small white patch under eye, of imfunuL 



The most marked color difference in the Sheikh Husein example 

 is seen in the division of the white of upper head by a distinct black 

 band joining the dark area of occiput with that of the side of head 



11 Zool. Anz., IV, p. 45. 



'-' Archiv. du Mus., 18G7, pi. VI and VII. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



at the upper anterior base of ear. There is a large white spot 25 

 mm. long and 10 mm. wide reaching around lower base of ear to 

 angle of jaw, and the ears are broadly tipped and fringed with 

 white ; both these characters not being shown in Milne-Edwards 

 plate of imhaicsi. 



Cranially, the Smith specimen differs specifically in its narrow 

 interorbital width, the less produced expansion of the occipital re- 

 gion beyond posterior line of the interparietal and the almost com- 

 plete suppression of the forward extension of the squamosal. In the 

 type of imhausi this bone forms an exterior rectangular keystone 

 about 3 mm. square, at the junction of the frontal, parietal and 

 jugal bones, distinctly separating the superior wing of the jugal 

 from contact with the lateral wing (postorbital process) of the 

 frontal ; in the Smith example these bones touch each other, being 

 only separated anteriorly by a slender, irregular extrusion of the 

 squamosal i mm. wide and 2 mm. long. 



The dentition of smithi, making allowance for the difference in 

 age, appears to be almost identical with Edwards' figures 11 of imhausi, 

 except that the posterior upper molar lies wholly outside the median 

 longitudinal axis of the anterior molars. In the latter the nasals 

 are broader posteriorly than anteriorly, these proportions being re- 

 versed in smithi. In imhausi the postpalatal notch is opposite ante- 

 rior base of posterior molar ; in smithi it only reaches the middle of 

 that tooth. The paroccipital processes in smithi are directed forward 

 against the audital bulla? ; in imhausi they are directed backward 

 and separated from the bullse by a distinct space. The mandible of 

 smithi, while exactly the same length as that of imhausi, is very 

 much more slender, the greatest breadth of the latter beiug 4 mm. 

 greater. The three recorded specimens 13 all came from a tract on the 

 Red Sea north of the 15th parallel ; smithi was taken on a mount- 

 ain 5,000 feet high, in the Indian Ocean-drainage about 700 miles 

 southeast of the most southern recorded locality of an imhausi spe- 

 cimen. 



For an account of the capture of the specimen and of the nature 

 of its habitat, the reader is referred to Dr. Smith's narrative. 



28. Acomys spinosissimus Peters. Peters' Acomys. 



A series of Spiny mice, taken between the 12th of March and the 

 17th of April, 1895, and preserved in alcohol, seem to correspond 



1S Milne Edwards' type was purchased alive at Aden. Its locality was ap- 

 parently near that of the others, as they are regarded as the same species. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



most closely to spinosissimus. One specimen (No. 3,872), a young 

 adult male, resembles Peters' figure, 14 except that it wholly lacks 

 any rufous tinge on the uniformly olive-black upper pelage. The 

 skull of this specimen is so like that of several others taken about 

 the same time that I am induced to consider them the same species. 

 Two very old adults (Nos. 3,868, 3,873), $ and 9 , are blackish- 

 chestnut on back and upper head, and bright rusty cinnamon along 

 the sides, the under parts and feet white. The total length of the 

 old male is 195 mm. ; length of the tail, 93 ; of hind foot, 17. The 

 length of the skull is 29 mm., while that of the dark specimen (I. e.) 

 is 2 mm. shorter. Two other hardly adult specimens (Nos. 3,863, 

 3,864) are somewhat intermediate in color between the dark and 

 light examples, with which their cranial characters affiliate them. 

 Their bellies and feet, however, are as white as in the old adults. 



Briefly stated, this series, if representing one species, as I am in- 

 clined to think it may, indicates an animal, which in the old adult 

 stage, is much redder above and whiter below than Peters's descrip- 

 tion of spinosissimus, which corresponds with the more immature 

 forms. It is possible that the dark specimen only is referable to 

 Peters's species and the others to some undescribed form. 



The adult female contained three large embryos. As the animal 

 grows older the tubercles on the feet become more prominent and 

 interspersed with granulations. The two specimens from Finik 

 near Webi Shebeli (Nos. 3,877, 3,878) are not different from the 

 other rusty specimens. The young one is pale fawn and seems to 

 show that the dark olive coloration is not a character of immatur- 

 ity- 

 Specimens in alcohol ; collection of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia : 



No. 3,863 $, Aimola, March, 12, 1895. 



No. 3,864 9, LakeAbaya, . . . May in. 1*95. 



No. 3,865 9, Aimola, March, 12, 1895. 



No. 3,866 $, BerMadu, . . . . February 16, 1895. 



No. 3,867 $, Aimola, March 14, 1895. 



No. 3,868 9, Aimola, March 14, 1895. 



No. 3,869 Foetal, Aimola, March 14, 1895. 



No. 3,870 Foetal, Aimola, March 14. 1^95. 



No. 3,871 Foetal, Aimola, March 14, 1895. 



u Reise n. Mossamb., 1852, pi. XXXIV, fig. 1. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



No. 3,872 S, Argasa, April 17, 1895. 



No. 3,873 $, Aimola, March 14, 1895. 



No. 3,877 Juv. Finik, December 14, 1894. 



No. 3,878 9 , Finik, December 14, 1894. 



29. Acomys sp. ? 



A male specimen, (No. 3,862), the only one of this genus from 

 Sheikh Husein, is lighter colored than any of the foregoing listed 

 under spinosissimus, and the tail is not longer than the body. The 

 ears are much larger than in any Acomys I have examined. The 

 skull differs in the great width of the audita! bulla? and the abrupt 

 compression of the jugal at its squamosal insertion. 



The total length of this mouse is 150 mm. ; the tail, 60 ; the hind 

 foot, 16.5 ; the ear from crown, 11. 



30. Acomys wilsoni Thos. Short-tailed Spiny Mouse. 



A spirit specimen of an old male, (No. 3,861), corresponds so ex- 

 actly with Oldfield Thomas's description 15 of wilsoni as to leave no 

 doubt of its identity. The tail is only 47 mm. long ; the body, 182 ; 

 the hind foot, 13. The skull is 24.5 mm. long by 11.2 in breadth. 

 The coronoid process is well developed as compared with the other 

 Acomys in the collection. 



This specimen was taken at Burga Camp, Amara. 



31 Steatoniys parvus sp. nov. Lesser Fat Mouse. 



Type, No. 3,879, ad. $ ; collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, 

 July 14, 1895, at Rusia, Lake Rudolf, Africa. 



Description — Size small, tail short and slender, less than one-third 

 the length of head and body. Colors similar to Steatoiinj* praten&is 

 Peters (=6'. edulis Ptrs.). 



Above, uniform tawny brown, lined with black, slightly darker 

 on back and hind head ; sides more tawny. Underparts, including 

 feet, uniform soiled white. Upper and lower tail, colored like cor- 

 responding parts of body. A white spot at base of ear. 



Measurements — Total length, 107 mm.; tail vertebrae, 33 ; hind 

 foot, 13 ; ear, from crown, 8. 



Skull— Total length, 20 mm; basilar length (of Hensel) 17; 

 greatest breadth, 11 ; interorbital constriction, 3.4 ; length of nasals, 

 7.8; length of upper molar series, 3.2; length of mandible, 11.3; 

 breadth of mandible, 6.6. 



15 Ann. Mag. N. Hist., 1892, p. 22. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Only one specimen of this genus is in the collection. It is an 

 adult female with teeth well worn and showing plainly three pairs 

 of teats, pectoral, abdominal and inguinal. 



The specimen is in spirit. It differs decidedly from S. pratensis 

 and S. krebsi, as figured and descrihed in Peters' work on the 

 mammals of Mozambique, in its diminutive size. Its tail is also 

 relatively much shorter and the ears smaller than in either of these 

 species. Its colors resemble those given in Peters' plate (7. c of 

 " edulis," but lack the fawn tint of that species. 



32. Mus barbarus L. Greater Striped Mouse. 



Six specimens, all in alcohol, except an adult female, are in the 

 collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 They may be tabulated as follows: 



No. 3,846 Ad. 9 , Dumbola Kalta, . . April 20, 1895. 



No. 3,913 Juv. S, LakeAbaya, . . . May 10,1895. 



No. 3,914 Juv. Higo April 8, 1895. 



No. 3,915 Juv. Higo, April 8,1895. 



No. 3,916 Juv. Higo, April 8, 1895. 



No. 3,817 Juv. Higo, April 8, 1895. 



33. Mus microdon Peters? 



One specimen, (No. 3,908), a female, taken April 24, 1895, agrees 

 very well with the figures of Peters' types, and the measurements 

 also coincide very closely with his. The tail is unicolor, naked, 

 shiny brown, tessellated with geometrically arranged scales. The 

 belly and feet are whitish, the lateral stripe fulvous, the back dark, 

 grizzled, brown-black. 



34. Mus sp. ? 



Two immature males, (Nos. 3,884, 3,891), with plumbeous body, 

 white feet and naked tail of the length of the body without head, 

 comes from Sheikh Husein ; October 12, 1894. They differ from any 

 other species in the collection. 



35. Mus sp. ? 



A series of four skins with skulls, and five specimens in alcohol, 

 represent a pretty large rat which was only seen and taken on grassy 

 hills at Sheikh Mahomet. 



They correspond closely to the Mus albipes of Pviippell. 



No. 3,848 9 , . " 



No. 3,849 $, November 9, 1894. 



No. 3,850 S November 4, 1894. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



No. 3,851 9 November 7, 1894. 



No. 3,883 Juv. 9 , 



No. 3,892 Juv. 9 November 1, 1894. 



No. 3,893 Juv. 9 , November 1, 1894. 



No. 3,906 S , 



No. 3,908 9 , 



Pseudoconomys Subgen. nov. Type Mua proconodon (infra). 



Subgeueric characters. Alveolar length of anterior upper molar 

 nearly thrice the greatest width of tooth. The two posterior sets of 

 transverse tubercles of this tooth as in the genus Mus, but the ante- 

 rior base of the median anterior cusp is remarkably produced for- 

 ward one-third the whole length of the tooth, and terminates ante- 

 riorly just above the descending tooth root in a false, rounded tuber- 

 cular cone, which lies so far below the grinding plane of the molars 

 as never (?) to become functional. 

 36. Mus (Pseudoconomys) proconodon sp. nor. False-cusp Mouse. 



Type, No. 3,880, ad. 9. ; collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. Collected by Dr. A.Donaldson Smith at 

 Sheikh Huseiu, Western Somaliland, Africa, October 13, 1894. 



Description — Size small, tail minutely and sparsely haired, as 

 long as body without head, unicolor, very slender and finely annula- 

 ted. Pelage fine, silky, tricolor, mouse brown above, ochraceous- 

 fawn along sides, beneath white. Anterior soles of feet thickly set 

 with granulated points, the hind foot with two anterior, two median 

 and two posterior tubercles, the fore foot with three anterior and two 

 posterior tubercles. Ears very small and rounded. 



Color above, including head and tail, almost exactly as in Mus 

 musculus, the sides slightly tinged with fawn. A well defined red- 

 dish-fawn stripe along sides, from shoulder to hip-joint, di.-tinctlv 

 separates the color of back from the pure white of belly. Whole of 

 under side, including upper lips, pure clear white to the bases of the 

 hairs. Feet whitish-brown ; soles naked to heel. Mamma?, 2 pec- 

 toral, 2 axillary, 2 abdominal, 2 inguinal. Skull characters as 

 above defined for the subgenus. 



Measurements — Total length, 128 mm.; tail vertebra?, 56 ; hind 

 foot, 16 ; ear, from crown, 6. 



Skull — Total length, 22; basilar length, 19; greatest width, 11 ; 

 interorbital constriction, 4 ; nasal length, 8.8 ; alveolar length of 

 upper molar series, 4.2 ; length of mandible, 13: greatest width of 

 mandible, 6.4. 



35 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



One specimen in alcohol represents this distinctly marked species. 

 Should it prove that its peculiar tooth pattern is shared by some 

 previously named but imperfectly described species, the propriety 

 of its subgeneric (if not generic) value certainly justifies the possible 

 synonym. The specimen is an old adult with the teeth well worn, 

 but not enough so to destroy the pattern of tuberculatum exhibited 

 by earlier maturity. 



37. Mus minutoides Smith. Smith's Lesser Mouse. 



I follow Oldfield Thomas 16 in applying Smith's earlier name to a 

 small, fawn colored mouse which corresponds to Peters' admirable 

 figures of Mus minimus in his Mammalia of Mozambique. 

 Specimens (in alcohol) : 



No. 3,910 Juv. 9 , Sogida Volcano, . . April 7, 1895. 

 No. 3,911 Juv. 8, Sogida Volcano, . . April 7,1895. 

 No. 3,912 Ad. 8 , Jire, Sakuyu, . . . . March 20, 1895. 



38. Mus mahomet sp. nov. Sheik Mahomet Mouse. 



Type, No. 3,881, ad. 8 ; collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith at 

 Sheikh Mahomet, Western Somalilaud, Africa, Nov. (?), 1895. 



Description — Size small, slightly larger than Mus min utoides (L c). 

 Tail well haired, slender, nearly equal to length of head and body. 

 Ears small, rounded and thickly haired; pelage dense, slightly his- 

 pid, tricolor. 



Color above, dark, black-brown, becoming dark fulvous brown on 

 sides and lower cheeks. Lower parts grayish-white, tinged with 

 fulvous on breast, neck and throat. A distinct lateral band of deep 

 fulvous extends along sides from shoulder to hip and along ham al- 

 most to heel, separating the colors of upper and lower body. Feet 

 hoary brown ; tail above, like back, below, like feet. Basal halves 

 of body hairs everywhere bluish-black. Hind feet with three pairs 

 of tubercles, fore feet each with three anterior and two posterior 

 tubercles. Whiskers medium, black. 



Skull as in typical Mus rnusculus, except that the inner anterior 

 face of upper incisors is flattened and the bases ot nasals extend 

 some distance beyond the upper posterior sutures of the premaxil- 

 laries. Coronoid process of mandible strongly hooked. 



Measurements — Total length 103 mm. ; tail vertebrae, 49: hind 

 foot, 14.5 ; ear, from crown, 6.5. 



16 P. Z. S., 1888, p. 13. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



Skull — Total length, 19.3 mm. ; greatest breadth, 9.8 ; interorbital 

 constriction, 3; length of nasals, 7.2; length of mandible, 11.5; 

 width of mandible, 5.7. 



Two specimens of this minute mouse, both males, taken at Sheikh 

 Mahomet, appear to be undescribed. In some respects they resem- 

 ble the characters given by Riippell for Mm imberbis, but they 

 are much smaller with relatively longer tails and have well devel- 

 oped whiskers. 



The so-called whiskerless character of Riippell's animal appears 

 to me to be an anomaly due to abnormal rather than natural cir- 

 cumstances. In any event, this question in no wise affects the 

 status of the mouse which owes to an accident of birth and locality, 

 rather than to its possession, of whiskers, the august specific name 

 which I have imposed upon it. 



39. ? Mus arborarius Peters. Long-tailed Wood Mouse. 



Two specimens, both females, (No. 3,847, ad. skin and skull ; No. 

 3,890, juv. in alcohol), from River Darde, September 12, 1894, are 

 of interest. 



Mr. Oldfield Thomas considers 17 M. arborarius of Peters synony- 

 mous with M. dolichurus. If this is the case, the River Darde mice are 

 perhaps, a good subspecies characterized by the excessively long tail 

 and smaller size. In our oldest specimen (No. 3,847), with molars 

 more worn than in the adult type skull of arborarius figured by 

 Peters, 18 the skull is markedly smaller and shallower. 



After examining their descriptions it seems to me that Peters has 

 plainly set forth good distinctions between his arborarius and 

 Smuts' dolichurus. The most marked character of arborarius is 

 the pure white feet and belly, which in dolichurus are fulvous. The 

 absence of a preocular spot in arborarius is also to be considered. 

 In these respects the Smith specimens resemble arborarius. The 

 feet and under parts are immaculate white to the roots of the hairs. 



In the adult, the total length is 100 mm., that of the tail vertebra? 

 being 150 mm. In the younger one, contrary to the general rule 

 in young murines, the proportional size of tail to head and body is 

 even greater than in the adult, the former being 122 mm. long and 

 the latter 76 mm. 



In the type of dolichurus the length of head and body is 125 mm. 

 and the tail 145 mm. In arborarius the head and body of the female 



17 P. Z. S., 1891, p. 186. 



18 Eeise n. Mossam., 1S52, pi. XXXV, fig. 7. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



is given by Peters as 120 mm., of the tail, 160 mm. These figures, 

 combined with the color differences, convince me of the propriety of 

 separating arborarius from dolichurus, and at the same time class- 

 ing the River Darde specimens with the former species. The char- 

 acter of the tail in the alcoholic specimen seems to indicate clearly 

 its use as a preheusile organ. 



40. Lophuromys sikapusi (Temm.). Sikapusi Rat. 



Making allowance for the change of color likely to occur in spirit 

 specimens, there is no doubt that two hispid rats taken by Dr. 

 Smith at Sheikh Mahomet are specifically the same as the animal 

 minutely described by Peters' 9 as Lasiomys afer. 



The upper pelage of No. 3,909, a very old female, is like that of 

 the younger one (No. 3,894, $ ), a grizzled, black, reddish-brown, 

 the under parts light ochraceous sharply defined against dark color 

 of sides. The tail of the older specimen is wanting ; in the other 

 one it is deep black above and rusty below. The basal half of up- 

 per pelage is colored like belly, the belly hairs being unicolor. The 

 older specimen is very large, the head and body being 130 mm. long. 



The skull, compared with Peters' illustration (7. c), differs in the 

 shape of the pterygoid fossa which, in our examples, is widest at the 

 postpalatal notch aud contracts at the pterygoid processes, widening 

 again in a vase-shaped outline as viewed from above. 



The semi-spinous character of the pelage in this species is inter- 

 mediate between that of Mus and Acomys. 



41. Golunda reichardi (Noack). Reichard's Bush Rat. 



Six fine skins and one specimen in alcohol, of a " grass or bush 

 rat," were taken at Sheikh Mahomet. They answer Noack'a descrip- 

 tion of reichardi, 20 as contrasted with that of Peters for " Pelomys 

 fallax," so well that I cannot hesitate to assign them to the former 

 and confirm the correctness of Noack's separation of the two. The 

 entire absence of a sulcus from the incisors of any of our specimens 

 instantly distinguishes them from fallax. The black dorsal streak 

 is plain in some, in others nearly absent. 



The general body color may be said to be ochraceous to tawny 

 brown, grizzled coarsely with black. Sides of nose and eye-ring 

 pure ochraceous. 



A note on one of the labels states this rat " makes a prehensile 

 [sic] nest in bush ; habitat in thick grass." 



19 Monatsb. Akad. Berl., 1866, p. 409. 

 »°Zool. Jahrb., 1887, p. 235. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



Specimens : Nos. 3,820, 3,821, 3,822, 3,823, 3,824, 3,825, 3,920 : = 



5 $ s, 2 9 s. 



42. Dendromys mesomelas (Brants). Long-tailed Tree .Mouse. 



Three Dendromys, all apparently taken at Sheikh Mahomet, were 

 presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by 

 Dr. Smith. Two of these, a half-grown young (No. 3,876) and 

 an adult male (No. 3,87-4), are in spirits; the third, an adult 

 male (No. 3,853), is a finely prepared skin with skull, and field meas- 

 urements taken by the collector. The two adults correspond so ex- 

 actly with Smith's beautiful plate 21 of D. typieus, in both color 

 and dimensions, I am unable to note any differences of even sub- 

 specific value. The fact that typieus is a South African species 

 would lead to the supposition that the Galla animal differed there- 

 from. In the absence of specimens for comparison, these will be 

 classed under mesomelas, Wagner, Heuglin and Trouessart agreeing 

 that typieus is a synonym of that species. Matschie 22 names the 

 long-tailed Dendromys of East Africa D.pumilio Wagner, quoting 

 " Munch, gel. Am., XII, 1820, p. 437." I am unable to find this 

 publication, but would suppose some mistake, as Wagner states 

 three times in his description ofpumilio in Weigmanu's Arehiv.fur 

 Xaturgeschichte, 1841, p. 135, that it is a "new species," no refer- 

 ence being made to a previous description. The chief distinction 

 between pumilio and mesomelas (if any, Trouessart and Heuglin 

 considering them the same) is the absence of the dark dorsal stripe 

 in the former. 



From D. mystacalis Heugl., 23 of Abyssinia, the Sheikh Mahomet 

 specimens are distinguished by greater size, relatively longer and 

 less hairy tail and the presence of the dark dorsal stripe. 



In No. 3,853 (I.e.) the total length is 177 mm.; tail, 100; hind 

 foot, 21. In No. 3,874 these measurements are respectively 163, 92 

 and 22 ; the ear from crown is 11.5. 



43. Dendromys sp. 



A young spirit specimen (No. 3,876), whose skull shows it to be 

 about two-thirds grown, differs so markedly in the black color of 

 the ears and orbital region and the white spot at the bases of ears 

 and the tail being only equal to the head and body in length, that 

 there is little doubt of its belonging to a different species from the 



" 2l Illust. Zool. S. Afr., 1849, pi. 34, fig. 1. 



22 Die Sang. Ost Afr., 1895, p. 49. 



23 Nov. Act. Acad. Cses. Leop., 1863 (Sept. 1862), p. 5. 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



foregoing. Its date, November 12, 1894, would show it to have 

 been taken at Sheikh Mahomet. 



44. Gerbillus sp.? 



Two examples (No. 3,858,3,929), both females of early maturity, 

 the former taken on the route to, and the latter at, Lake Rudolf, 

 come nearer G. schlegeli than to G. bohmi or G. leucogaster, with 

 which they also seem closely allied. They are darker and smaller 

 than leucogaster, and have much larger audital bulla? than bohmi. 



A. Smith considers G. afer of Gray a synonym of G. schlegeli. In 

 this connection I may remark that the above specimens correspond 

 almost exactly to Smith's plate (pi. 35) of afer in the Illustrations 

 of the Zoology of South Africa. 



45. Gerbillus (sp. nov?). 



So desperately involved is the nomenclature and classification of 

 the numerous African members of this genus, I hesitate to impose a 

 name on what appears to me an undescrihed form, No. 3,857, Ad. 

 $ , from Hargesa, taken July 18, 1894. While resembling, in gen- 

 eral characters of skull and skin, Peters' leucogaster, it is essentially 

 different from any Gerbillus I have examined, in the entire absence 

 of the posterior cusp of m- 3 t that tooth consisting merely of the 

 normal semicircular loop with anterior curve and single posterior 

 crenation. The tooth is not much worn, so that any trace of the 

 posterior cusp would be easily distinguished, neither is there the 

 faintest indication of it at the base of the tooth, the posterior crena- 

 tion nearly reaching the alveolus. 



The specimen is a dry skin ; the upper body colors are a rich, 

 dark fawn, becoming tawny along sides and lined along upper back 

 and head with coarse black-tipped hairs. The ears and upper tail 

 are blackish-fawn, the latter becoming nearly black toward tip and 

 ochraceous white on the lower side. The feet and under side of 

 body, including lower cheeks and upper lips, white to the bases of 

 hairs. Shorter whiskers white, longer ones blackish. Bases of 

 upper body hairs light slate. 



The measurement of the dry skin gives the total length 280 mm. ; 

 the tail, 155; the hind foot, 37; the ear from crown, 14. The 

 skull is 60 mm. long and 20 wide, the nasals 16 long aud very slen- 

 der, the supraorbital bead very strong and with an anterior flange. 

 The ascending ramus of the lower jaw is longer and more erect than 

 in leucogaster and its allies. The audital bullae are large, as in fett- 

 cogaster, but the auditory meatus is compressed. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



46. Gerbillus sp. ? 



Three young specimens (Nos. 3,854, 3,855, 3,928), two in skins and 

 one in alcohol, all taken at Sheikh Husein, October 12, 1894. I am 

 unable to even conjecture about, except to say they differ specifically 

 from any others in the collection. 



They are about two-thirds grown ; the tail is just equal to head 

 and body in length, and the size of skull and hind foot would indi- 

 cate a species smaller than leucogaster. This species is remarkable 

 for the blackness of the ears, back, rump, upper tail and soles of the 

 feet. The upper ground color is brownish-fawn fading to purer 

 fawn on the sides. The underside and feet are clear white. 



No. 3,855 measures 180 mm. in length; tail, 90; hind foot, 30. 

 The skull is 27 mm. long. 



47. Gerbillus pulvinatus sp. nor. Cushioned Gerbillus. 



Type, No. 3,930, ad. $ ; collection of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia. Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith at 

 Rusia, Lake Rudolf, Africa, August 5, 1895. 



Description — Size medium, tail with pencil nearly 1J times 

 length of head and body. Soles and toes of fore and hind feet cush- 

 ioned throughout with hairs like those of the upper surfaces of the 

 feet. 



Color (from type alcoholic specimen) above, from hind nose to 

 tail, fawn, sparingly lined with black tipped hairs, much blacker 

 across hind rump and thighs. Upper tail fawn, becoming blackish- 

 brown toward penieillate tip, the underside white almost to tip. 

 Hind feet, including lower portion of hind leg, white; forelegs and 

 feet, lower parts, including sides, lower cheeks, upper lips, to eyes, 

 nose, hinder bases of ears, superciliary stripes and spots between eyes 

 and ears, white, the white greatly encroaching on the paler fawn of 

 upper sides and lower outer half of hams. Ears fully and coarsely 

 haired on outer surface with golden fawn anteriorly, becoming 

 darker on the hinder parts. 



Skull (teeth worn, 3 anterior cusps of m- 1 yet distinct) ; first sec- 

 tion of m- 1 consistingof a single rounded oval cusp, without fold or 

 division and distinct from its neighbor ; second (median) transverse 

 section of same tooth consisting of two distinct circular cusps of equal 

 size; third (posterior) section of same is a single elliptic transverse 

 cusp forming the widest portion of the tooth. Audital bulla? large, 

 tumid, widely separated from the slender basi-occipital. Incisive 

 foramina not reaching anterior plane of molars. 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Measurements — Total length, 234 mm. ; tail vertebrae, 135 ; hind 

 foot, 26.5; ear, from crown, 10. 



Skull — Total length, 30.6 mm.; basilar length, 25; greatest 

 width, 16; interorbital constriction, 6; length of nasals, 12; length 

 length of upper molar series, 4; length of mandible, 16 ; width of 

 mandible, 7.8. 



An old adult male, in spirit, which I have made the type, two 

 immature specimens, male and female (Nos. 3,926, 3,925) also in 

 spirit, and another immature specimen, a skin with skull (No. 3,856) 

 fully represent a species which was collected on the route to and 

 from Lake Rudolf between June 2d and August 5, 1895. The more 

 pallid pelage of the dry skin would indicate it either to be a desert 

 race of the type or that the specimens in alcohol of same age have 

 become darkened by their immersion. In either case the species is 

 lighter colored than any other in the collection. I have ventured 

 its separation because of the remarkable and apparently unique 

 character of the hairy-soled feet. This is quite as marked in the old 

 as in the young. These sole hairs form a sort of cushion on and 

 just behind the anterior tuberculatcd part of the hind and fore feet, 

 and even the plantar excrescence of the heel is furnished with scat- 

 tering bristling hairs. The toes are almost as fully haired beneath 

 as above. The character of the tuberculatum of ™- 1, as above 

 given, is also strongly diagnostic. 



48. Gerbillus ruberrimus sp. nov. Little Red Gtarbillus. 



Type, No. 3,927, ad. $ ; collection of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia. Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith at 

 Finik near Webi Shebeli, Somaliland, Africa, December 14, 1894. 



Description — Size smallest (?) of the African species of the genus. 

 Tail nearly lj times the length of head and body; color above bril- 

 liant red-brown to orange-yellow. Ears relatively very small and 

 round. 



Color (of type) above, clear rich reddish-cinnamon with slight 

 admixture of black tipped hairs. Sides scarcely paler, a strong line 

 of demarkation between red of upper and white of lower parts. Base 

 of ear, patch over eye, upper lips, feet and under parts pure white; 

 ears well haired and colored like upper head. Tail unicolor, red- 

 dish-fawn throughout, becoming blackish on the distal, penicillate 

 hairs and terminal tuft. 



Skull — Basi-occipital and audita! bullse but slightly separated ; 

 •ncisive foramina not reaching the anterior plane of molar series. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



Anterior cusp of m- 1 strongly indented by an enamel fold on the 

 anterior inner face and connected by a continuous enamel wall with 

 inner median cusp of the same tooth. Outer median cusp of m. 1 

 isolated. Inner and outer cusps of transverse sections of m- 2 and 

 m. 3 coalescent. Single anterior and median pair of cusps of mTl 

 forming a coalescent trefoil. 



Measurements — Total length 160 mm.; tail vertebra?, 95; hind 

 foot, 20; ear, from crown, 6. 



Skull — Total length, 24 mm. ; greatest breadth, 12.5 ; interorbital 

 constriction, 4.5; length of nasals, 9.8; length of mandible, 12; 

 with of mandible, 5. 



The type above described, is in alcohol and is a well-aged individ- 

 ual with teeth worn half way to the cusp bases. Another specimen 

 (No. 3,852) a dried skin with skull, taken on the same day as type 

 is an adult, but less aged, female. It differs only in being deep 

 ochraceous instead of being reddish above. 



Compared with G. pusillus Peters, 24 to which it appears most 

 nearly allied, the type of smithi is distinguished by its splendid red 

 color, by the very small ear, relatively longer tail and smaller body. 

 The skull is of the same length as that of the type of 2^isill((s. 



49. Otomys irroratus Brants. Brants' Otoniys. 



A young specimen, labeled from Sheikh Mahomet, was brought 

 back in alcohol. It is a female and apparently about two-thirds 

 grown. It is light brown, darkly grizzled with black, the tail deep 

 black above, its underside being grayish. The hind feet are black 

 with brownish hairs along the outside near heel. The upper incis- 

 ors have two distinct (median and inner) anterior grooves and a 

 slightly concave flattening of the convex intervening space. The 

 lower incisors present one deep groove dividing the face of the tooth 

 into an outer third and an inner two-thirds ; along the inner edge 

 of the tooth face is a faint sulcus, and the intervening convexity is 

 faintly flattened medially. Owing to the immaturity of the tooth 

 these sulcations are less strongly developed than would ensue with 

 greater age, the fainter grooves only appearing at the alveolar sur- 

 face. 



50. Heterocephalus glaber Rupp. Hairless Mole Rat. 



An old adult female (No. 3,923) in perfect condition, preserved 

 in alcohol, is included in the exceptionally fine collection of small 



"Monatsb. Acad. Berl., 1878, p. 201. 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



rodents brought back by Dr. Smith. It was taken at Milmil, Som- 

 aliland, July 24, 1894. It appears to be the third recorded specimen 

 in existence and the second belonging to the type species of this 

 remarkable genus. RuppeH's type of glaber came from Shoa and 

 was described 25 in 1845. It now exists in the Senckenburg Museum 

 in the form of a mounted skin with the skull separate, the mandi- 

 bles missing. In 1885 E. Lort Phillips sent another specimen of 

 Heterocephalu* inspirits to the British Museum from Central Somali- 

 land. This was made the subject of a communication by Mr. Oldfield 

 Thomas before the London Zoological Society, and in the Proceed- 

 ings of that Society 26 was described as new under the name phillipsi, 

 after its discoverer. Subsequently Mr. Thomas published 27 a more 

 complete account and description, with figures, of the new animal, 

 and made detailed comparisons with glaber. 



It was with no small curiosity that, after having a photograph 

 made of Dr. Smith's specimen, I removed the skull and com- 

 pared it with the figures of Riippell and Thomas. Except in its- 

 greater age and size there are no differences between the animal 

 from Milmil and the Shoa type. 



The color of the skin is pale ochraceous with a fleshy tinge, be- 

 coming pale livid on the upper sides of head, neck, belly, rump and 

 tail. The scattered hairs are a silvery, transparent white. The 

 underparts are somewhat lighter than the upper. The skin of head 

 is very thick and tough, more so for example than that of the oldest 

 and toughest Mus decumanus that I ever dissected. The inner 

 finger of manus is much shorter relatively than figured by Thomas 

 for pkillipsi. Two mammae 15 mm. apart are faintly indicated at 

 the sternum immediately between the fore legs when they are drawn 

 down at right angles to the body. A series of seven pairs of teat- 

 like excrescences, each bearing in its pitted center a bristling hair 

 5 mm. long, extend along the sides to the groin in the position of 

 the regular teat series. 



The" wrinkled, warty" appearance of the skin, which Mr. Thomas 

 thinks may be due to the action of spirits on the specimen of pkil- 

 lipsi, I am confident is perfectly normal, as our specimen plainly 

 indicates in many ways, and it will be seen that these pits, warts 

 and furrows are closely correlated with the anatomy of the animal 



25 Abhand. Mus. Senckenb., p. 99. 



26 P. Z. S., 1885, pp. (ill, 612. 



27 Ibid, 1885, pp. Si:. 849. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



as it exists in life and with the skin coloration and the distribution 

 of the pelage. 28 



The skull of the Milrail animal is from 1J to 2 mm. larger in its 

 exterior dimensions than that of the type of glaber. It belongs to a 

 much older animal, and on this account the differences in dimen- 

 sions and formation of the teeth are, perhaps, largely attributable. 

 Among these the most noticeable are found, 1st, in the upper incis- 

 ors each bearing upon their inner anterior surfaces a distinct shal- 

 low sulcus, bordered on the inner side by a sharp ridge and merging 

 outwardly into the convexity of the lateral two-thirds of the face of 

 tooth. Riippell states clearly that his animal had unchanneled in- 

 cisors ; Thomas says the incisors of phillipsi are " somewhat flattened 

 and bevelled on their interior halves," but does not define a sulcus. 

 The upper molars of the specimen in the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia number six, as in glaber. Unlike those figured for 

 glaber their crown surfaces are of unequal dimensions, m- 2 being 

 one-third larger than m- 1 and m- 3 considerably smaller than m. 1 . 

 In the two first upper molars the crowns have worn down until the 

 enamel folds are obliterated. In the last, which evidently erupted 

 at a much later date than the anterior pair, the crown shows a tri- 

 foliate surface, due to the impinging of the enamel walls of the lat- 

 eral and posterior sides of the tooth nearly to its center. Of the 

 three mandibular molars, m. 2 and m71i are about equal in size, m . 1 

 being about half as large ; the latter is circular in outline and shows 

 no enamel folding ; in m . 2 there is a pretty deep indentation on the 

 outer wall and a shallow curve of the inner ; in m . 3 these indenta- 

 tions are exaggerated, nearly equal, and nearly divide the tooth into 

 two sections, the anterior section being rectangular, the posterior 

 hemispherical in outline. If we were to apply the standard of specific 

 separation generally recognized to-day as governing the classifica- 

 tion of rodents, it would be consistent, perhaps, to make the third 

 specimen of Heterocephalus a third species on the dental characters 

 above defined, and on similar grounds establish a new genus for the 

 light-molared H. phillipsi, but I fully agree with Mr. Thomas 

 that the known individual variations in other species of the Bath- 

 yergince are quite as marked as any yet attributed to Heterocepha- 

 lus. 



28 A plate of the specimen is being prepared for Dr. Smith's book on the 

 Expedition. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The measurements of Dr. Smith's specimen are as follows — Total 

 length, 143 mm. ; tail vertebrae, 42 ; hind foot, 24 29 ; fore foot, 16. 



Skull — Basilar length (of Hensel), 23.5 mm. ; end of nasals to 

 occipital ridge, 23 ; zygomatic width, 20.5 ; interorbital constriction, 

 6.5 ; length of nasals, 9.8 ; base of upper incisors to m. 1 , 9 ; length 

 of mandible, 22.2 ; breadth of mandible, 15. 



52. Rhizomys splendens (Riipp.). Lesser African Hole Rat. 



A specimen (No. 3,924) of a male Mole Rat, from " Gineer," 

 {Gineh ?) preserved in alcohol, is in the collection. Its size and col- 

 oration place it with the first species described by Riippel from 

 Dembea. 



53. Pectinator spekei BIyth. Brush-tailed Rat. 



A pair of these interesting rodents, male and female, (Nos. 3,921, 

 3,922) taken at Sheikh Mahomet, December 4, 1894. They corre- 

 spond closely to Blyth's original diagnosis of the type taken in east- 

 ern Somaliland. 



The female, a full aged adult, measures (from spirit specimen) 190 

 mm. in total length ; the tail, 30; the hind foot, 36; the ear, from 

 crown, 10. 



54. Lepus Bp. ? 



An apparently young hare (No. 3,811) without skull, and labeled 

 " The Haud," July 22, 1894, is the only representative of this genus. 

 Its alliance seems to be with L. ochropus Wagner, as quoted by 

 Matschie in the Mammalogy of East Africa. 

 *55. Felis leo somaliensis Noack. Somali Lion. 



Two very fine skins of male and female are in the University of 

 Pennsylvania exhibit. 



* 56. Felis pardus nimr (Ehrenb.). Steepe Leopard. 



Five leopard skins in the University of Pennsylvania exhibit may 

 be classed with the form designated by Ehrenberg and revived by 

 Matschie. 



57. Felis caracal nubica (Fitz.). African Caracal. 



A half grown specimen (No. 3,931) of a male taken October 

 2, 1895, is in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. 



29 The hind foot of glaber is given as 21. 2 mm., but the fact of its being 

 taken from a dried specimen would largely account for the difference in size. 




1896.] NATURAL BCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



58. Felis maniculata RUpp. Manacled Cat. 



A flat skin, (No. 3,812) with accompanying skull, of a fully adult 

 animal, corresponds exactly with Ruppel's 80 figure of maniculata, of 

 which name I consider caligata a synonym. It would appear that 

 F. cafer (" cafer" Auct.) of Desmarest is a distinct species. 



* 59. Cynailurus jubatus guttatus (Herni., Haram.'i. African Cheetah. 



A flat skin is in the University of Pennsylvania library donation. 



60. Helogale undulata (Peters). Undulated Mongoose. 



An adult and a young female (Nos. 3,815, 3,816), the latter from 

 Hargesa, July 21, 1894, the former taken March 3, 1895, are similar 

 in their deep chocolate tints as compared with Peters' plate and 

 Thomas' 31 diagnosis of the typical form. The young animal is grayer 

 and more tawny than the adult above, but the lower parts of the 

 two are very similar. 



61. Herpestes gracilis ochraceus (Gray). Abyssinian Mongoose. 



The skin and skull of an old male Herpeses (No. 3,817), taken 

 November 25, 1894, shortly after leaving Sheikh Mahomet, evidently 

 belong to the Abyssinian animal, which Mr. Thomas considers a 

 variety of gracilis. Compared with Gray's plate of ochraceus, the 

 Smith specimen is redder and more darkly annulated with black. 

 The form and color pattern of the tail is very similar to Gray's in 

 our specimen, except that the slender portion adjoining the black 

 tip is bright rusty. The black tip is about 35 mm. long. 



The following legend appears on the label attached to this skin : 

 " Shot in amongst bushes. It eats insects, and had a dragon-fly in 

 its mouth when shot. Irides yellow." 



62. Genetta tigrina (Schreb.). Tiger Genette. 



Accepting Matschie's identification 32 of Mr. True's diagnosis 33 of 

 a Genette from Kilima-Njaro to belong to tigrina instead ofpardina, 

 I am induced to place a skin and skull from Milmil under the 

 former name. The black of posterior hind legs and feet and the 

 bristling black dorsal mane and rufous-centered body-markings 

 place it with tigrina. The specimen is an old female, No. 3,844. 

 The skull is 86 mm. long and 40 broad. 

 ^63. Hyaena crocuta Erxl. Spotted Hyaena. 



A mounted skull is among the University specimens. 



30 Keis. X. Afr. Zool., 1826, p. 1, pi. 1. 

 91 P. Z. S , 1882, p. 80. 

 32 Saugeth. Ost Afr., 1S95, p 74. 

 33 Proc. Nat. Mus., 1892, p. 454. 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



64. Canis mesomelas Schreb. Black-backed Jackal. 



A skin of this species in the University of Pennsylvania is repre- 

 sented by a skull (No. 3,845) in the collection of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Locality not given. 



65. Mellivora ratel (Sparrm.). Rate!. 



A skin with skeleton (No. 3,814) was received by the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Another skin was retained by 

 Dr. Smith. They both came from Gebas near the Shebeli, and were 

 taken January 6, 1895. 



66. Erinaceus albiventris atratus subsp. nov. Galla Hedgehog. 



Type— No. 3,831, Yg. Ad. $ ; collection of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson 

 Smith at Ngare Nocbor, Lake Rudolf, Africa, August 26, 1895. 



Description — Similar to E. albiventris Wagner, as defined by 

 Dobson, 3 * but with hoary black limbs, feet, tail, ears and face-patch, 

 the remaining pelage pure, clear white. Extreme tips of spines 

 sooty black. 



Color — Spinous region covered evenly with spine.- 20 mm. long, 

 whose extreme tips are dusky, followed by a subapical zone of dull 

 white 5 mm. wide, then by a horn-black zone 8 mm. wide, fading 

 into a lighter zone and darkening again into a black base. Facial 

 area, bounded by edges of upper lips and lines drawn from corners 

 of mouth to eyes and thence connecting across forehead, thinly- 

 haired anteriorly by sooty black, more thickly and lengthily haired 

 posteriorly, and with a decided moustache below eye across cheeks, 

 of pure black. A triangular spot of black on lower lips and chin, 

 to corners of mouth. Region between dark facial patch ami spines 

 of hind-head and ears, cheeks, throat, breast, belly and sides nearly 

 to ventral region, pure silky white witli an occasional black hair. 

 Fore-legs from body to feet black, well intermixed with white, es- 

 pecially on inner side of arm. Forefeet aud soles black with a few 

 gray hairs. Hind-limbs and feet colored like fore-limbs, with a de- 

 cided whitish patch on inner side of pes near heel. Tail and vent 

 hoary black. Formation of feet as is minutely described by Dobson 

 for albiventris (I. c). The rounded, thickly-haired ears, -ravish, 

 sooty black, inside and out. 



.Measurements (of type by collector in field) — Total length, 118 

 mm.; tail vertebra', 10; hind-foot 23 ; ear from crown (dry) 1 



; ' Monog. Insectiv., 1882, p. 11. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIE>X'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



Skull: total length, 35 ; zygomatic breadth, 22; interorbital con- 

 striction, 10.6; length of nasals, 11.8; length of mandible, 27; 

 breadth of mandible, 12. 



The immaturity of the specimen which I have made to represent 

 this newly-described race of albiventris can in nowise account for its 

 color characters as contrasted with the typical form, whose habitat 

 Dobson places as " northern tropical Africa." In appearance, as 

 well as in habitat, this race may be said to show some approach to 

 the South African E. diademahis Fitz., but closer examination 

 shows its affinities to be with the northern animal. 



The single skin and skull brought back by Dr. Smith indicate an 

 individual closely approaching maturity, the posterior molar and 

 the canine just cutting through the gums. 



67. Macroscelides rufescens Peters. Rufescent Jumping Shrew. 



This shrew, whose cranial characters so closely ally it to M. in- 

 tufi Smith, is represented by an adult female and an immature male 

 (Nos. 3,829, 3,830), taken respectively at Ehrer and Lammo on the 

 12th and 16th of August, 189-4. The adult is somewhat blacker and 

 less ruddy than Peters' specimens, but the measurements and color 

 pattern are identical. Both specimens are skins with skulls, full 

 data and measurements. 



68. Macroscelides sp. ? 



A half-grown individual (No. 3,828), labeled Walenso, October 

 26, 1894, is so dark and has such a short tail compared with body 

 that it is probably distinct. Its skull, however, shows near relation- 

 ship to rufescens. It is preserved in alcohol. 



69. Crocidura doriana Dobson. Shoa Shrew. 



An alcoholic specimen of an adult shrew (No. 3,826) in the col- 

 lection was taken at Sheikh Mahomet, October 28, 1894. The skull 

 and dentition are identical with Dobson's Shoa species as figured in 

 the Monograph. 



70. Crocidura sp. ? 



A rather young example (No. 3,827), in alcohol, from Lake Bu- 

 dolf, the skull of which, unfortunately, was lost after being ex- 

 tracted for examination, is of interest. The skin and sparse hairs 

 of tail and feet are white. Tail about half the length of head and 

 body. Color of body dark bluish-gray, lighter beneath. Total 

 length about 100 mm., hind-foot, 12.5. Ears conspicuous. The 

 small size of this specimen makes it improbable that it is C. leucura 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Matschie, its immaturity not being sufficient to account for the dif- 

 ferent measurements. 



71. 1 Cercopithecus rufoviridis Is. Geoff. Reddish-green Guenon. 



A skin with skull (No. 3,932) separate, of a not fully-mature 

 monkey, agrees somewhat with the species above-named. Its re- 

 semblance to C. flavidus Peters, from Mozambique, which Forbes 35 

 considers a synonym of rufoviridis, is quite clo.se. On the label is 

 written : " Skin, pale Prussian blue ; face skin brown ; irides light 

 brown." 



72. Colobus guereza Riipp. Mop-tailed Guereza. 



Three skins and one skull (No. 3,899), taken at Lake Rudolf, 

 were brought to America. One of these was subsequently mounted 

 for the University of Pennsylvania. Another skin (No. 3,905) is 

 in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia series. They 

 are all typical guereza, as described and figured by Riippell. 



35 Allen's Nat. Lib.. II, 1894, p. 65. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o47 



THE HYMENOPTERA COLLECTED BY DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH IN 

 NORTHEAST AFRICA. 



BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



The following list includes only the Aculeate Hymenoptera 

 brought home by Dr. Smith. The collection includes, besides these, 

 perhaps thirty species of ants and parasitic forms which I am obliged 

 to pass unnoticed for the present. Inasmuch as I have had to rely 

 entirely on descriptions in classifying the collection, I beg to offer 

 that fact as an apology for any erroneous identifications that may 

 have been made. 



The specimens were collected on a journey from Berbera through 

 Somaliland to Lake Rudolf, thence to a point on the east coast, 1 and, 

 with many other specimens, have been presented to the Academy 

 of Natural Scieuces of Philadelphia by Dr. Smith. 



MUTILLID^3. 



Apterogyna Latreillei Klug. 



One specimen ( 9 ). Berbera, July 6, 1894. 

 Mutilla pedunculata Klug. 



Two male specimens. Berbera, July 4, 1894, and Shebeli, Sep- 

 tember 1. 



Mutilla sinuata Oliv. (=villosa Klug.). 



One specimen ( 9 ). Sheikh Husein, October 22, 1894. 

 Mutilla tricolor Klug. 



One 9 specimen. Sheikh Husein, October 29, 1894. 

 Mutilla guineensis Fabr. 



One 9 specimen from Sheikh Husein, October 1, 1894. 

 Mutilla mephitis Sm. 



One specimen ( 9 ). Laga, November 30, 1894. 

 Mutilla leda n. sp. 



9 . — Head, legs and abdomen black, the latter velvety ; thorax 

 obscure rufous ; head, except a longitudinal medial streak and the 



1 See an article bv Dr. Smith in The Geographical Journal for August and 

 September, 1896. 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



cheeks, medially, sides of thorax, legs, transverse spot at apex of 

 first dorsal, three spots on second dorsal (one anteriorly in the 

 middle somewhat ovate, and two larger ones placed transversely 

 near the apical margin of the segment), a medial spot on the third, 

 fourth and fifth coalescing more or less, the second segment along 

 the extreme sides, a small spot on the apical margins of the second, 

 third and fourth at the sides and the apical margins of ventrals 2- 

 4 entirely, of silvery pubescence ; above the body is clothed with 

 long, erect, sparse black hairs, which, on the ventral surface, are 

 pale ; head about as wide as the broadest part of the thorax, with 

 deep, coarse punctures; eyes subovate ; mandibles furrowed longi- 

 tudinally and toothed within before the apex; flagellum strongly 

 acuminate, the first and second joints about equal in length ; occi- 

 put not cristate ; thorax long, somewhat pyriform, broadest a little 

 anterior to the middle, the lateral borders not dentate ; the thorax 

 above scabrous ; evidently no scutellar scale present, or else it is 

 indistinguishable from the coarse sculpture of the upper surface of 

 thorax ; spines of the legs black, calcaria pale testaceous, those of 

 the hind and medial tibise pectinate within ; first segment of abdo- 

 men constricted at apex, not continuous with the base of the follow- 

 ing ; in the middle transversely cristate, the portion before the crista 

 very fiat, ventrally with a short and strong carina, which is some- 

 what emarginate medially; second segment with very large punc- 

 tures, ventrally shining with the punctures more distinct and at the 

 base with a short, central, longitudinal carina ; last dorsal smooth 

 and shining, at least medially, without a pygidial area. Length, 

 12 mm. 



One specimen. Near Gelani, October 27, 1894. 



This species is apparently close to M. <h>ri<r Magr., but differs in 

 the non-cristate occiput and absence of scutellar scale. 

 Mutilla somalica n. sp. 



9 . — Head ? ; thorax obscurely rufous ; legs and abdomen 



black, the latter red beneath ; the second dorsal segment in greater 

 part with reddish-orange pubescence forming a maculation as shown 

 in the figure ; a spot in the center of dorsals 3-5, a narrow transverse 

 one on the apical margins of dorsals 2-5 at the sides, and apical 

 margins of ventrals 2-5 with silvery pubescence ; legs witli pale pube- 

 scence, the rest of the body clothed with long, erect hairs, those 

 above dark, those below pale ; thorax robust, not twice as long as it 

 is broad at base, coarsely cribrose above, the lateral margins irregu- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



lar; scutellar scale wanting ; tibia? and tarsi strongly spinose, the 

 spines black; calcaria white, pectinated within; first segment of 

 abdomen constricted at apex, beneath with a 

 strong, bidentate or emarginate carina ; second 

 ventral with a short, median, longitudinal 

 carina basally and together with the sides of 

 its dorsal moiety with large separated punc- 

 ture.-, those of the remaining ventrals much 

 finer and closer, pygidial area large, convex, 

 longitudinally striato-punctate, the sculptures 

 strongest basally and becoming obsolete at 

 Fig. 1. apex. Length (without head) 10 mm. 



Abdominal markings, One specimen, from which the head is, un- 

 MuMa somalica. fortunately, missing. The maculation of the 

 second dorsal segment is apparently so different from any of the 

 African Mutillids that I have thought it well to describe the species, 

 even though the specimen be in poor condition. 

 From Finik, December 15, 1894. 



SCOLIID^. 



Scolia ruficornis Fabr. 



Two 9 and two $ specimens. Hargesa and The Haud, July 21 ; 

 Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894. 



Elis aureola Klug. 



Two females from Sheikh Husein, collected on September 21 and 



27. 



Cosila Donaldsoni n. sp. 



9 . — Deep black, shining, the last two abdominal segments ru- 

 fous ; wings black, strongly violaceous ; pubescence grayish ; head 

 strongly punctured, closely so on the front, sparsely on the vertex 

 and occiput; clypeus more finely punctured than the front, some- 

 what carinate down the middle, its anterior margin tridentate ; man- 

 dibles scarcely punctured, scape and pedicellum shining, sparsely 

 punctured, the flagellum opaque, the joints slightly prominent at 

 apex beneath ; ocelli deeply pitted, indistinct ; pronotum scabrous ; 

 dorsulum with irregular, coarse punctures, transversely smooth just 

 behind the pronotum, and a little shorter than the scutellum ; scu- 

 tellum scabrous, somewhat triangular, truncate posteriorly ; middle 

 segment above very finely striato-punctate, becoming more coarsely 

 so posteriorly ; posterior face with shallow punctures and indistinct 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



striations, sides obliquely striated, the central longitudinal furrow of 

 the middle segment is wider by far on the upper surface, fore tarsi 

 distinctly combed ; tarsal claws cleft ; hind femora somewhat angu- 

 lar beneath ; third submarginal cell larger than the second, the 

 third transverso-cubital nervure received by the marginal cell at its 

 apex ; abdomen with strong, sparse punctures, those at the apex of 

 2, 5, and bases of 3, 5 closer; punctures of ventral segments larger: 

 pygidial area striato-punctate ; first dorsal truncate anteriorly, not 

 carinate ; spines of the legs and calcaria whitish. Length, 18 mm. 

 Sheikh Husein, October 8, 1894. Easily distinguished by the 

 red tip of abdomen. In the cleft claws and pectinate fore tarsi this 

 species appears more closely allied to the American than to the 

 Australian species of Cosila. 



POMPILID.S3. 



Pompilus dimidiatus Fafor. 



Berbera, June 5; Laga, November 30. Two specimens. 

 Pompilus viaticus Fabr. 



One specimen. Daro Mountains, November 19. 

 Pompilus pulcher Fabr. 



One specimen. Terfa, August 13. 

 Pompilus umbrosus Klug. 



Berbera, July 4 ; Lafarug, December 7. Three specimens. 

 Pompilus Tamisieri Gu.'r. 



One specimen. Aimola, March If), 1895. 

 Pompilus (Pedinaspis I) somalicus n. sp. 



9. — Head, antenna?, thorax and legs ferruginous; mandibles at 

 tip and abdomen black ; wings yellow, a slender black fascia < t 

 ing the anteriors in the region of the basal vein and a very broad 

 fascia just before the apex ; the apex pale ; head rather flat, the 

 occiput bearing a sharp, transverse ridge ; frontal impressed line 

 feeble; clypeus flat, shining, its fore-margin slightly emarginate or 

 incurved, as is likewise the labrum, which projects a little and is 

 fringed sparsely with long hairs; antenna? inserted at base of cly- 

 peus, tolerably long and slender, much shorter than the thorax* 

 however, the first joint nearly as long as the scape, which is coin- 

 pressed ; thorax elongate; pronotum a little longer than the dor- 

 sulum, its hind margin arcuate ; scutellum shorter than dorsulum, 

 somewhat more than twice as long as the metanotum (postscutel- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



lum) ; middle segment subtruncate posteriorly, entire, above with a 

 central longitudinal impressed line, posteriorly with rather coarse 

 transverse stria?, which extend partly on 

 the sides; legs tolerably stout, scarcely 

 spinose ; fore tarsi without comb ; claws 

 with a large, sharp tooth within, almost 

 cleft ; longer spur of hind tarsi less than 

 one-third as long as the first hind tarsal 

 joint ; marginal cell pointed at tip ; second 

 and third submarginals about equal in 

 size, both receiving their recurrent nerv- 

 tr j e d 1-r ' r ure slightly before the middle ; basal vein 



Head of Pompilus somahcus. . 



joining the submedian cell before its 

 apex; submedian cell of hind wings terminating before the origin 

 of the cubital vein ; abdomen not compressed, obscurely testaceous 

 beneath ; dorsals 1,3 and 4 with a large lateral spot of pale pubes- 

 cence, which is also indicated laterally on the ventral segments. 

 Length, 17 mm. 



One specimen. Near Finik, December 6, 1894. Is apparently 

 distinct from all the African species of Pompilus in the bifasciate 

 fore-wings. I refer it to Kohl's subgenus Pedinaspis with some 

 doubt, inasmuch as the abdomen is not compressed, and the claws 

 rather more cleft than dentate. 

 Salius (Cyphonyx) flavicornis Fabr. 



One specimen. Sheikh Husein, October 5, 1894. In this speci- 

 men, a 9 . only the tibia? are reddish. 

 Salius (Hemipepsis) atropos ? Sm. 



I refer, with some doubt, two $ specimens taken at Sheikh Hu- 

 sein, October 10, 1894. Smith only describes the female, his speci- 

 mens having come from Sierra Leone. 



SPHECID^J. 



Sphex (Chlorion) xanthocerus var. maxillaris Pal. 



One 9 specimen. The Haud, July 21, 1894. 

 Sphex (Chlorion) regalis Sru. var. 



Two females. Ardeh,July 14; Hargesa, July 18,1894. In this 

 form the thorax is entirely black ; the wings black with violaceous 

 reflections, the apex of the hind pair not pale ; head, antennas, fore- 

 legs entirely, and the femora and tibia? of the medial pair, reddish ; 

 abdomen metallic and purplish-blue. 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Sphex (Parasphex) marginatus Sm. 



Sheikh Husein, October 1, 1894. One specimen. The petiole is 

 black in this specimen. 

 Sceliphron Spinolae Lep. 



Two females. Sheikh Husein, October 15, 1894. 

 Sceliphron spirifex Linne. 



Two females. Sheikh Husein, October 1 and 15, 1894. 

 Sceliphron violaceum Fabr. 



One specimen. Sheikh Husein, October 15, 1894. 

 Ammophila ferrugineipes Lep. 



One 9 specimen. Sheikh Husein, October 8, 1894. 

 Ammophila lugubris Gerst. 



Two females. Sheikh Husein, September 20 and 28, 1894. 

 Ammophila holosericea Fabr. 



Dabulli, September 16, 1894. Two $ specimens. 

 Ammophila insignis Sm. 



Turfer. One specimen, August 13, 1894. 

 Ammophila beninensis 1 Pal.-Bve. 



I refer doubtfully to this species two specimens from Sheikh 

 Husein, September 30 and October 5. They agree fairly well with 

 Beauvois' description and figure of beninensis, but the tibiae ami tarsi 

 and four anterior femora are reddish. 

 Bembex Dahlbomi Hdl. 



Milmil, July 28, 1894. Four specimens. 

 Sphecius Quartinse Grib. 



Only the male of this species has been described, and it is not cer- 

 tain that the female specimen before me from Berbers, July 4, 1894, 

 is really Quartinas. I venture to describe it as such, however. 



$ . — Short and stout, ferruginous, except the clypeus, labrum, 

 mandibles, except apex (which is black), front beneath and scape and 

 apical an tennal joints beneath, which arc yellow ; apical margins of 

 the dorsal abdominal segments narrowly fuscous ; wings testaceo-hya- 

 line, nervures reddish, marginal cell lanceolate and narrow ; second 

 submarginal greatly narrowed above, its width at this point slightly 

 greater than that between the stigma and the first transverso-cubital 

 nervure on the marginal nervure ; third submarginal scarcely nar- 

 rowed above ; clypeus convex, transverse, its fore-margin a little in- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



curved ; antennae scarcely as long as thorax, thickened apically, the 

 first joint of flagelluni as long as the two following united ; the head, 

 as a whole, is fairly well punctured ; dorsulum and scutellum iru- 

 punctate or with exceedingly fine punctures, the middle segment 

 with more distinct punctures ; legs robust, strongly spinose ; abdo- 

 men finely and rather closely punctured, the apical margins of the 

 segments smooth in a transverse sense ; sixth dorsal strongly punc- 

 tured, not very strongly ridged laterally, ventrals rather flat, the 

 second feebly convex. Length, 22 mm. 



Liris haemorrhoidalis Fabr. 



Sheikh Husein, September 30, 1894. One male specimen. 

 Notogonia apicalis n. sp. 



$ . — Black ; last three or four abdominal segments red ; mandi- 

 bles and tegulse, in part, obscurely rufotestaceous ; face, clypeus, 

 cheeks, fore-femora and thorax beneath, and apex of middle seg- 

 ment with dense silvery pubescence ; the sides of thorax, legs and 

 abdomen with a sericeous pile, which, when the insect is held in cer- 

 tain lights, appears on the abdomen to form apical bauds on the 

 segments ; head finely and closely punctured ; distance between the 

 eyes above nearly as great as the length of the third and fourth 

 antennal joints, much greater than the length of the second and 



third ; flagellum acuminate apically, 

 thickest toward base, the first joint a 

 little longer than the second and some- 

 what curved ; clypeus depressed trans- 

 versely before the anterior margin, the 

 latter a little prominent in the middle ; 

 FlG - 3 - dorsulum with tolerably strong and 



Venation (fore wing), Note c]oge cturegj the scut ellum with 



jroma apicalis. , , „ , 



the punctures much finer and sparser, 



shining; mesopleurse with shallow, somewhat separated punctures, 

 the episternal suture of the mesothorax distinct and strongly foveo- 

 lated ; middle segment truncate behind, above coarsely and trans- 

 versely rugose, divided longitudinally by a strong medial carina, 

 which terminates before the apex, sides coarsely and obliquely stri- 

 ated ; legs simple, not peculiarly modified ; wings fusco-hyaline. 

 nervures black ; marginal cell obliquely truncate at tip ; second 

 submarginal almost triangular, much narrowed above, the width at 

 the top equal to about one-half the distance between the recurrent 

 nervures on the cubital nervure; abdomen impunctate, the second 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



ventral segment with the transverse basal depression well marked. 

 Length, 12 mm. 



One specimen. Sheikh Husein, September 30, 1894. Is appar- 

 ently related to N.radamce Saussure, from Madagascar, and may be 

 identical with the var. b., mentioned by that author. The radial 

 (marginal) cell of radamce, is said to be perpendicularly truncate, 

 whereas in apicalis it is obliquely so. It also agress fairly well with 

 the description of Larra rubella Smith, of which only the female is 

 described. 

 Miscophus ctenopus Kohl. 



Berbera, July 4, 1894. One 9 specimem. 

 Tachysphex fluctuatus Gerst. 



One male specimen. Same locality as the preceding species. 

 Helioryctus melanopyrus Sm. 



One specimen, a female. Near Lake Stephanie, June 20, 1895. 

 It is somewhat larger than the specimen described by Smith, and 

 measures 14 mm. in length. Helioryctus is, perhaps, synonymous 

 with Sericophorus Sm. (non Shuck.) = Tachyrhostua Sauss. 

 cophorus Sm. has priority over Tachyrhostus, having been described 

 on p. 33, Ann. & May. Nat. Hist., 1851, VII. 

 Astatus boops Schr. 



One male specimen from Sheikh Husein, October 5, 1894. 

 Oxybelus lamellatus Oliv. 



Berbera, July 4, 1894. One specimen. 



EUMENIDiE. 



Eumenes Lepeletierii - 



Three specimens. Sibbe, August 2; Terfa, August 15; Biver 

 Darde, September 9, 1894. 

 Eumenes maxillosa DeG. 



One large female. Berbera, July 3, 1894. 

 Eumenes dimidatipennis Sauss. 



One 9 specimen without precise locality or date of capture. 

 Synagris calida Linne. 



Luku, September 17, 1894. Two specimens. 

 Synagris tropidia Schlett, 



Sheikh Husein, October 8, 1894. One 9 specimen. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Khynchium laterale Fabr. 



Sheikh Husein, October 7. One male. 

 Odynerns metemmensis Magr. 



One specimen, without date of capture or locality. 



VESPID.S1. 



Polistes marginalis Fabr. 



Sheikh Husein, October 5 and 9. Two specimens. 

 Belonogaster colonialis Kohl. 



One male specimen. Terfa, August 21. 

 Belonogaster Meneleki Grib. 



Sheikh Husein, October 1 and 5 ; Laga, November 30, 1894. 



APID^]. 



Colletes sp. 



Two specimens of a species having the base, apex and sides of the 

 first dorsal segment and the apex of the three following with pale 

 ochraceous pubescence, beneath which the segments are brownish- 

 testaceous. From Sheikh Husein, September 29, 1894. 



Nomia nulpina Gerst. 



A $ specimen which is probably this species. Sheikh Husein, 

 October 7, 1894. Another species, perhaps new and from the same 

 locality, has the hind-legs almost simple and the apical margin of 

 dorsal segments 1-5, whitish. 

 Anthophora qnadrifasciatus DeG. 



Sheikh Husein, September 29, 1894. A specimen of the variety 

 alternans Klug. 

 Anth.opb.ora concinnus King. 



One specimen ; no precise locality or date of capture. 

 Anthophora albigeniis Lep. 



One specimen, a variety, of this species. Daro Mountains. No- 

 vember 19, 1894. 

 Eucera rufioornis Fabr. 



Sheikh Husein, October 7, 1894. One male specimen. 

 Crocisa ahyssinica Rads. 



One female specimen. The Haud, July 21, 1894. 

 Xylocopa oblonga Sin. 



One specimen. Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Xylocopa fulvohirta DeG. 



Two females. Meo, October 25, 1894. 

 Xylocopa cafra Latr. 



One female specimen. Same locality and date as the preceding. 

 Xylocopa inconstans Sm. 



One female specimen. Sheikh Husein, October 1, 1894. 

 Xylocopa olivacea Fabr. 



One male. Near Lake Stephanie, June 20, 1895. 

 Xylocopa aestuans Pabr. 



Berbera, July 4. One female specimen. 

 Xylocopa Gribodoi Magr. 



Sheikh Husein, October 10; Meo, October 25,1894. Three fe- 

 male and one male specimens. The latter sex is apparently unde- 

 scribed. 



$ . — Black ; head, thorax, anteriorly and beneath, dorsal seg- 

 ments at the sides, particularly segments 1, 4, 5, 6, and ventrals 3- 

 6, with pale pubescence, that on the clypeus white ; the legs with 

 black pubescence, the anterior pair in addition with a streak of 

 white pubescence, which is more evident at first joint of tarsi; 

 wings hyaline at base, the apical third fuscous with purplish irides- 

 cence; nervures black throughout; antennae entirely black; eyes 

 large ; face narrow ; the ocelli are an equilateral triangle ; dorsulum 

 sparsely punctured medially, as are likewise dorsal segments 2-4, 

 which at the sides are closely punctured ; dorsal 5 and 6 closely 

 punctured throughout; the sixth segment medially, and the last at 

 the sides with black pubescence, that on the fore-tarsi beneath 

 slightly brownish. Length, 20 mm. 



With the exception of the wings and pale color of the pubescence 

 on anterior part of thorax, the male is, superficially, similar to the 

 female. 



Ceratina fastigiata n. sp. 



9 • — Blue-green, the head and thorax slightly the darker ; legs 

 black ; the base of the hind tibiae externally and a broad oblong 

 spot on the clypeus yellowish ; head with large, deep and more or 

 less confluent punctures, which on the clypeus are separated and 

 rather sparse; mandibles and labrum black, the latter convex and 

 coarsely rugose ; antenna? black, the flagellum clavate and slightly 

 testaceous beneath ; pronotum not dentate laterally, rather sharply 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



margined ; dorsulum convex, its punctures larger than those of 

 head and distinctly separated ; scutellum similarly punctured, the 

 mesopleurae a little less strongly so ; upper and posterior surfaces of 

 middle segment separated by a ridge, above the ridge finely rugose, 

 on the sides with large punctures, similar to those on the fourth dor- 

 sal segment, below the ridge, the punctures finer, closer and evener ; 

 abdomen with the segments rather strongly constricted at the 

 sutures, the apical segment suddenly constricted and drawn out into 

 a point apically, the first, second and third segments punctured 

 about like the dorsulum, the remaining dorsals decidedly more finely 

 punctured ; the ventrals are punctured like the first dorsal, the 

 apical margin of the second, and the base and apex of the second to 

 fifth, smooth and black ; fore legs naked and shining, the others 

 with pale pubescence, as are likewise the ventral abdominal seg- 

 ments, but sparsely ; wings hyaline, darker apically, nervures and 

 stigma black ; tegulae and shoulder tubercules dark testaceous. 

 Length, 8 mm. 



One specimen from Daro Mountains, November 20, 1894. 



Allodape canina Sm. 



Two specimens. Tulu, November 23, 1894. 

 Megachile basalis Sm. 



One female specimen. He, April 9, 1895. 

 Megachile colorata n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; scape of antennae, tegulse, legs except coxae, and the 

 first three segments of abdomen red ; wing yellow at base and 

 broadly along the costa, otherwise fuscous with purplish iridescence, 

 the veins included in the yellow portion, red- 

 dish, those in the fuscous portion dark ; head 

 with strong confluent punctures, posteriorly 

 deeply incurved, the occiput margined ; face 

 between the antennae prominently convex, and 

 meeting the clypeus so as to appear continuous 

 with it ; the clypeus slopes from its middle to 

 apex, which is broadly truncate, the sloping por- 

 FlG - 4 - tion smooth (or nearly so) and shining, other- 



Mandible, Megachile wige the clypeus is coarse l y punctured ; man- 

 dibles striato-punctate, furrowed from middle 

 to apex, slightly broader at apex than at base, narrowest medially, 

 bearing a tooth within and four at apex ; dorsulum with strong 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



punctures, which, when the insect is held in certain positions, give 

 the dorsulum a transversely and irregularly striated appearance; 

 punctures of the scutellum a little closer, those of the mesopleuraa 

 more distinct; legs robust, the hind tibiae much thickened toward 

 apex; abdomen sparsely punctured, the apical margins of dorsals 

 1-4 transversely depressed at apex, at which place the punctures 

 are closer; front, base of clypeus, a fringe on labrum, thorax above, 

 on center of mesopleuraa and base of middle segment, and a fringe 

 at apex of dorsals 1-3, ochraceous ; beneath the wings, extending 

 to sides of middle segments, a spot on each side of the first three 

 or four dorsals and the ventral scopa, whitish ; on the cheeks and 

 thorax beneath the pubescence is pale ; legs and last two or three 

 dorsals covered with a short ochraceous pubescence, that on the tarsi 

 the longer. Length, 13-16 mm. 



Two specimens. One without precise locality or date of capture ; 

 the other, the larger specimen, is marked, "From nest in insect tin, 

 November 28, 1894," and is from near Laga. The red color on abdo- 

 men in the larger specimens is more distributed than in the smaller. 

 Megachile crenulata n. sp. 



$ . — Black; first joint of fore tarsi whitish; head strongly and 



closely punctured above, more finely so on the front ; mandibles 



longitudinally striato-puuctate, tridentate at apex; dorsulum and 



scutellum strongly, closely and evenly punctured; mesopleurre per- 



^^- — . haps a little more strongly punctured ; 



^k /& tibia) cribrose externally; fore coxae 



\ / with a long, obtuse tooth ; fore tarsi 



\/ \y with the first joint flattened and 



Fig. 5. broadened, its anterior margin sinu- 



Last dorsal abdominal segment, ated medially ; abdomen closely punc- 

 Megackile crenulata. Uired above> beneath more sparsely, the 



apical margin of all the segments (except the last) Btrongly depressed 

 and testaceous; last dorsal strongly emargiuate and strongly crenu- 

 lated ; at the base of the last ventral on each extreme side is a 

 strong tooth; head in front, dorsulum, middle segment and base of 

 first dorsal with long, brownish or fulvous pubescence, which also 

 appears to a certain extent on scutellum, apical segments and the 

 legs, where it is more or less mixed with paler hairs : cheeks, fore tarsi, 

 thorax beneath, first dorsal laterally, and the ventrals more sparsely, 

 with long, pale pubescence ; the first medial and hind tarsal joints 

 have a fringe of this pubescence ; apical margins of dorsals 2-5 with 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



obscurely fulvous pubescence, which above in the middle becomes 

 paler ; wings subhyaline, nervures and stigma black. Length, 13 

 mm. 



Sheikh Husein, September 24, 1894. The only specimen obtained 

 is somewhat the worse for wear, thereby making an accurate descrip- 

 tion of the pubescence rather difficult. 



Trigona Beccarii Grib. 



One specimen. Sheikh Husein, September 29, 1894. 



Apis mellifica Linne. 



Terfa, August 15, 16, 1894. Four specimens. 




560 proceedings of the academy of [1896. 



November 3. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



November 10. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper eutitled "The Bones, Muscles and Teeth of Tarsius 

 fusco-manus," by Harrison Allen, was presented for publication. 



November 17. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



One hundred and nine persons present. 



Mr. Edwin S. Balch read a paper entitled "Ice Caves and the 

 Causes of Subterranean Ice," (No abstract.) 



November 24. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



R. A. Philippi of Santiago, Chili, was elected a Correspondent. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 56] 



NEW SPECIES OF FEESH WATER MOLLUSKS FROM SOUTH AMERICA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The forms described below were encountered in the course of 

 identifying a series of mollusks collected by Dr. Wm. H. Rush, U. 

 S. N., in Uruguay aud Argentina, a list of which will be found in 

 The Nautilus for November of this year. To the forms collected by 

 Dr. Rush have been added several others, apparently undescribed, 

 from the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia. 



To the above-mentioned paper in The Nautilus the reader is re- 

 ferred for some account of the localities represented by specimens 

 here described, and for notes on the species associated with them. 



CHILINID.ffil. 



Chilina Rusbii n. sp. PL XXVI, figs. 6, 7. 



Shell oval, strong, yellowish-olivaceous with five girdles of dusky, 

 narrow spots alternating with lighter ones. Spire produced, ter- 

 raced, but flat-topped, the whorls strongly keeled around the shoul- 

 der, flat above the keel. Aperture long-ovate, white with chestnut 

 spots inside ; outer lip thin ; columellar lip white, callous, with a 

 strong, acute entering fold at the root, and a very inconspicuous fold 

 in the middle ; the parietal wall with a strong entering fold which 

 is abrupt below, and filled in above with a heavy callus. 



Alt. 16, diam. 10? mm.; alt. of aperture 12 mm. 



Uruguay River at Fray Bentos (Dr. Rush !). 



The conspicuously angular spire is a peculiar feature of this shell. 

 The apex is considerably eroded, so that the number of whorls can- 

 not be stated. 



LIMN^ID^. 



Planorbis castaneonitens Pilsbry & Vanatta, n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 10, 11, 12. 



Shell thin, chestnut brown, very smooth and glossy; growth-strise 

 light ; right and left sides showing 4 whorls, about equally and 

 quite shallowly concave ; spire on right side less than half the 

 diameter of shell, inner 1 ? whorls more sunken ; spire on left side 

 decidedly wider than on the right. Last whorl wide on the right, 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



narrow on the left side, the periphery very obtusely angular near 

 the left side. Aperture quite oblique, cordate, the peristome thin 

 and fragile, produced forward on the right side. 



Alt. 1*7, diam. 7 mm. 



Ponds and small streams near Maldonado, Uruguay (Dr. Rush !). 



Compared with P. heloicus d'Orb., this species is flatter and more 

 glossy, has the spire much narrower on the right side, the outer 

 whorl wider and less cylindrical ; the color is darker and the 

 periphery rounded-angular. 

 Planorbis heteropleurus Pilsbry & Vanatta, n. sp. PI. XXVI, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell moderately solid, corneous-white, rather opaque, the surface 

 with fine, close growth-lines ; earlier whorls rather deeply and 

 about equally sunken on the two sides ; convex, and strongly angu- 

 lar or keeled in the middle, on the right side ; peripherv conspicu- 

 ously carinated on the left side, which is shallowly vortex-shaped, 

 the whorls nearly flat. Last whorl slightly wider on the right than 

 on the left side. Whorls 3'., all visible on both sides, the last wider 

 than the spire. Aperture very oblique, rounded-pentagonal, the 

 right margin produced forward. 



Alt. 4', greatest diam. lli, lesser 8] mm. ; oblique alt. of aper- 

 ture 5i, diam. 4 mm. 



Lake Titicaca (A. Agassiz !). Types No. 69,645, collection of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



This remarkable species is totally unlike P. titicacensis Cless., 1 P, 

 montanus d'Orbigny 2 and P. andicola d'Orbigny, 3 species already 

 known from this Andean lake. It is most like P. andicola, but 

 much flatter with differently placed keels, and, in fact, so diverse in 

 characters that no profitable comparison can be made. Described 

 from eight specimens, which are alike in all essential characters. 



CYRENID^!. 

 Corbicula Coloniensis n. sp. PI. XXVI, fig. 9. 



Shell subtriangular, rather ventricose, slightly inequilateral ; an- 

 terior and posterior margins obtusely angular, the slope above the 

 rounded angles slightly convex ; posterior slope decidedly longer ; 

 basal margin well curved, rounded ; beaks moderately projecting. 

 Hinge ligament very convex, short and yellowish. Surface nearly 



^onchylien Cabinet, Planorbis, p. 147, pi. 12, f. 2Z-'2o. Olefin locates 

 Lake Titicaca in Ecuador ! On p. 175 he calls the species P. titicaca 

 2 Voy. Am. Merid., p. 345, pi. 44, f. 5-8. 

 'Ibid., p. 340, f. 1-4. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



smooth in the middle, finely, irregularly striate at the ends and 

 basal margin. Green, duskier above, with narrow, widely spaced 

 and inconspicuous blackish rays, the eroded beaks deep purple. 

 Interior deep purple, clouded with whitish purple within the pallial 

 line, the teeth of the same light tint. Pallial line with a short triangu- 

 lar sinus ; right valve with three divergent cardinal teeth, median and 

 posterior teeth bifid at tip ; median tooth wide, anterior and poste- 

 rior teeth long and oblique ; left valve with three cardinals, the 

 median bifid at tip. Laterals crenulated.long, the anterior slightly 

 curved, posterior straight ; double in right, single in left valve. 



Length 32*, alt. 27*, diam. 15* mm. 



Length 28, alt. 24, diam. 15 mm. 



La Plata River above Colonia, Uruguay (Dr. Rush). 



Larger and more triangular than C. limosa. The lateral teeth 

 are unusually long, and the cardinals widely divergent. 



MUTELID.E. 



Glabaris latomarginatus Lea var. felix n. t. PI. XXVI, fig. 8. 



Similar in form to Anodonta latomarginata Lea, but epidermis 

 light yellowish-green, closely painted with short radiating dichoto- 

 mous or simple lines or narrow Y's of green, and two green rays on 

 the posterior slope. Interior pale pink within pallial line, prismatic 

 border faint olive buff. Some black zig-zags along pallial line or 

 outlining muscle impressions. 



Length 53, alt. 38, diam. 20* mm. 



Length 49, alt. 35, diam. 18 mm. 



Colonia, Uruguay (Dr. Rush). 

 Glabaris trapesialis var. cygneiformis n. v. PL XXVI. fig?. 4, 5. 



Shell similar to some forms of Anodonta cygnea, such as that fig- 

 ured by Rossmiissler, Iconogr., I, fig. 280, in the elongate form, long 

 and up-curved posterior end, but hinge-line straight and produced in 

 a small wing anteriorly, terminating angularly. Very thin and 

 fragile, even in specimens 14 cm. long. Green and smooth in mid- 

 dle, blackish and rougheued at ends and basal margin ; nacre blue- 

 white, iridescent, dark-stained in the cavity more or less, and often 

 with some zig-zag blackish markings around the muscles. 



Length 142, alt. 75, diam. 36 cm.; alt. 52-53 %, diam. 26 % of 

 length. 



More compressed than G. riograndensis Iher., with the hinge-line 

 more angular at the ends and the posterior end peculiarly up- 

 37 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



curved, as in certain middle European forms of A. cygnea. The 

 specimens are also even thinner than examples of riograndensis be- 

 fore me, of equal size. 



Pond and a small creek near Maldonado, Uruguay (Dr. Rush). 



The differences between this form and typical trapesialis are mani- 

 fest when we compare the typical figures of the latter in Encycl. 

 Meth.,pl. 205, which agree perfectly with specimens before me. The 

 divergence between the several geographic races of G. trapesialis, 

 such as riograndensis, exoticus and cygneiformis render it necessary, 

 in my opinion, to recognize these as of subspecific rank. The ex- 

 treme " lumpers " do not seem to understand that if evolution of 

 species by divergence is granted, " subspecies " are a necessary con- 

 sequence, whether we distinguish them by name or not. Every 

 practical zoologist knows that they exist, and are neither more nor 

 less artificial or subjective conceptions than " species ; " and it 

 seems a truer method to recognize certain races in which more or 

 less definite characters are correlated with geographic range, than 

 to lose sight of the differences induced by causes acting over whole 

 districts or river-systems by lumping unlike forms under "species" 

 which are equally with subspecies, arbitrary groupings. 

 Glabaris Simpsonianus n. 6p. PI. XXVII, fig. 13. 



Shell oblong-oval, ventricose, very inequilateral, thick, solid and 

 heavy ; greatest diameter about in the middle ; basal margin gaping 

 from the anterior extremity nearly two-thirds the distance to poste- 

 rior end ; dorsal margin gaping slightly from the end of hinge to 

 the posterior end of shell ; externally green toward the beaks, the 

 greater part of the surface olivaceous, blackish brown at the ends 

 and basal margin, the posterior dorsal slopes biradiate with green ; 

 the surface smooth and polished, with rather coarse, low wrinkles of 

 growth, more crowded and somewhat lamelloseat the ends and basal 

 margin. Upper and basal outlines about equally curved ; hinge 

 margin long, wide, somewhat sloping, gently curved, rounded or 

 hardly angular at the ends ; posterior margin sloping above, 

 rounded below ; anterior end somewhat narrower, rounded ; beaks 

 wide and low. 



Interior silvery or salmon-tinted, very pearly, usually showing 

 irregular black parallel lines in the neighborhood of the muscle im- 

 pressions and pallial line. Cavity of valves deep, of beaks shallow 

 and wide ; muscle-scars well impressed, the foot protractor sear un- 

 usually long; posterior adductor scar situated very near to the siuus 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



at eud of hinge line, and connected therewith by a short impression ; 

 prismatic layer at margins of valves narrow and bluish-green. 



Length 14, alt. 7*8, diam. 5*4 cm. 



Length 14*5, alt. 8*1, diam. 5*5 cm. 



Rio de la Plata. Described from seven specimens in the collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



This species is named in honor of Mr. Charles Torrey Simpson, 

 whose valuable papers upon the Unionidce have been of great ser- 

 vice to students of this intricate and difficult group. 



G. Simpsonianus belongs to the group of G. trapesialis Lam. It 

 differs from typical trapesialis (Encycl. Meth., pi. 205) in being oval 

 rather than subtriangular ; the beaks are far less inflated, low and 

 wide ; the nacre is peculiarly pearly, having the luster of that of 

 the pearl oyster ; the hinge line is more nearly parallel with the 

 basal margin and is far longer in proportion to the length of the 

 shell ; the posterior large muscle-scar is close to the sinus at end of 

 hinge-line, not distant from it as in trapesialis ; the foot protractor 

 scar is of a very different shape. Finally, the shell, while smaller, 

 is much more ponderous and thick than trapesialis. Well-grown 

 specimens of trapesialis measure 19 cm. long, and are thinner than 

 Simpsonianus 14 cm. in length. 



Anodon penicillatus Gray 4 apparently resembles this species in 

 the internal markings (which are common to many species of Gla- 

 baris), but it is described as "Antice subcompressa, rotundata, sub- 

 gracili" terms applying well to some forms of G. trapesialis var. 

 exoticus. 



The great solidity of the shell for a Glabaris will separate the 

 species from G. trapesialis var. exoticus Lam. and var. riogranden- 

 sis v. Iher. It resembles G. Forbesianus Lea in the thickness of the 

 shell, but is more oblong, with longer hinge-line, wider beaks, 

 differently shaped protractor pedis scar, and wider ventral gape. 



*Proc. Zool. Soc Lond., 1834, p. 57. 




566 proceedings of the academy of [1896. 



December 1. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



December 8. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



December 15. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



December 22. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



The death of Auguste Louis Brot, a Correspondent, August 30, 

 was announced. 



December 29. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Forty-four persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Georgia Coast," by Clarence 

 B. Moore. (By title). 



"Descriptions of New South American Bulirnuli," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



GEOLOGY OF THE MUSSEL-BEARING CLAYS OF FISH-HOUSE, 

 NEW JERSEY. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The deposit containing fresh-water mussels of the genera XJnio 

 and Anodonta, situated at Fish-house, Camden County, New Jersey, 

 on the Delaware River, about 5 miles north of Camden, was first 

 noticed, so far as we know, by Professor E. D. Cope, who placed a 

 series of the fossil Unionidce in the hands of Dr. Isaac Lea for de- 

 scription 1 in 1868. In Dr. Lea's paper the bed containing these re- 

 mains is said to be "subordinate to the Green Sand * * * * 

 belonging to that portion of the cretaceous group which furnished 

 * # # * Hadrosaurus Foulkii Leidy," etc. 2 



The species of Unionidce, twelve in number, were fully redescribed 

 and illustrated in 1886 by Professor R. P. Whitfield, 3 who, relying 

 upon the above statement in Dr. Lea's paper, considers the deposit 

 as "from near the base of the Cretaceous series of the State." Pro- 

 fessor E. D. Cope, 4 in a brief consideration of "The Fresh-water 

 Clays of the Pea Shore," in 1869, gave an excellent section of the 

 beds, which may be consulted with advantage in connection with 

 the present communication. He held that they were " much later" 

 than the Cretaceous, and, in fact, Pliocene ; basing this conclusion 

 largely upon the finding of a large part of the cranium of a horse 

 believed to be Equus fratemus Leidy. The late H. Carvill Lewis, 

 on the contrary, held the Fish-house clay to be "of interglacial 

 age," 5 and this estimate of the age of the deposit is shared by Dr. 

 C A. White, 6 who considers the fossils as of post- Tertiary date. 

 This is also, I believe, the opinion of most Philadelphia geologists 

 who have recently examined the subject. 



: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, p. 162. 



2 It is difficult to account for this statement, which finds no justification in 

 the stratigraphy of the region in question, so far as I can see. 



3 Brachiopoda and Lamellibranchiata of the Karitan Clays and Green Sand 

 Marls of New Jersey, pp. 243-252. 



* Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XIV, X. Ser., pp. 249, 250. 



5 Professor Lewis did not, I believe, formally publish this view, but taught 

 it in his lectures at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, synop- 

 ses of which were published in the " Public Ledger," April-June, 1884. The 

 above quotation is from one of these newspaper reports. 



6 A Review of the Non- Marine Fossil Mollusca of North America, 1883. 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The view that the Fish-house clay is of Pleistocene age is materially 

 strengthened by the discovery therein of several horse teeth by Mr. 

 Lewis Woolman, and by the recognition of the identity of at least a 

 portion of the Unionidce, with living species, a subject referred to 

 below. 



The fossils occur only in a layer of black clay, which is used for 

 brick and tile making. This deposit is capped by a layer of coarse 

 sand. Under the black clay is a much thinner stratum of yellow 

 or reddish clay, containing considerable sand and deeply stained 

 with iron oxide. Below this stratum, which is about two feet thick 

 where observed, there is coarse gravelly sand, which forms the foun- 

 dation of the superimposed clays. This sand deposit is of consider- 

 able thickness, and the various sections exposed show it to be dis- 

 ,__.__ __-^=r--rrz.-^z.~ZL.^i tinctly stratified, the strata being obliquely 

 •Tv" ~ " ~ '--, ■/'•■< laminated, as shown in the annexed dia- 

 •. ' gram. The character of these strata is 



completely that of arenaceous deposits in 

 river-beds. So far as I know, such a 

 disposition of the materials is not pro- 

 FlG - *■ duced by any other means. No such 



Obliquely laminated strata. stratification and oblique lamination is 



to be seen in the coarse sand at the summit of the clays. This 

 difference indicates a diverse origin for the two deposits. In the 

 opinion of the writer, the peculiarities of the Fish-house clays may 

 be explained by the supposition that the deposit has been purely a 

 result of river-action. The phenomena are exactly paralleled by 

 processes now in progress in the rivers of the Mississippi system, 

 where similar deposits containing a similar fauna may be seen in 

 every stage of formation. 



Upon this theory the sands underlying the red clay were de- 

 posited in a former Delaware River bed, the river at that time flow- 

 ing in a direction practically parallel to its present course, as shown 

 by the direction of the oblique lamination of the strata. A change 

 in the river's course, such as cutting across the neck of an "ox-bow," 

 or some similar shifting, left the former bed at this point a lagoon, 

 similar to the so-called "sloughs" of the Mississippi River. A la- 

 goon of this nature, while it quickly becomes dammed at the up- 

 stream end, for a time receives a portion of the current in time of 

 high water. In the case under consideration, the layer of red, more 

 or less arenaceous, clay was probably deposited during this period of 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



partial isolation. Further separation of the slough from the stream 

 is effected by the growth of willows and other vegetation upon the 

 alluvial ridge at its head, which rapidly gains in height by the debris 

 collected thereby. The lagoon of quiet water thus formed is a very 

 favorable station for molluscan and other aquatic life, sedentary 

 animals, or those of weak locomotive powers becoming far more 

 numerous than in the active current of the parent stream. Such a 

 lagoon thus gradually fills up with fine mud partly composed of or- 

 ganic material. In the case under consideration, the black clay 

 represents this period. During this time the mussels flourished in 

 the still water. Finally the lagoon or " slough " became dry land, 

 this being the ordinary result of the process. 



The naiad fauna of the Fish-house deposit is precisely similar in 

 general character to that of the " sloughs " of the Mississippi River 

 to-day. 



The cap of sand upon the black clay may be regarded as a later 

 deposition of more general geographic distribution, while the forma- 

 tions it overlies in this place are believed to be the result of strictly 

 local causes, and antedating by a lapse of time, greater or less in 

 duration, the overlying gravels. 



As to the fossils themselves, it must be admitted that their diver- 

 gence from living forms is very slight in most cases — a fact which 

 Dr. Lea significantly indicated by his choice of specific names. 

 Some of the species are really not distinguishable from modern shells. 

 Thus Unio nasutoides has no characters which can not be readily 

 paralleled in the living Unio nasutus or fisherianus. Anodonta cor- 

 pulentoides is equally indistinguishable from A. corpulenta. The ab- 

 solute counterpart of Unio radiatoides may be selected from any 

 collection of U. radiatus, and so on. The remarkable feature of the 

 series of fossil forms is that certain of them have no modern repre- 

 sentatives in the Atlantic drainage south of the Great Lake and St. 

 Lawrence system. The following " species " exemplify this state- 

 ment : U ligamentinoides, alatoides, prteanodontoides, rectoides, Ano- 

 donta grandioides and corpulentoides. Although the affinities of 

 some of these may have been wrongly estimated, owing to imperfec- 

 tion of the specimens, still a portion of them unquestionably bears 

 out the relationships affirmed by Dr. Lea. The majority of these 

 species foreign to the modern Atlantic drainage have their living 

 allies in, or are identical with, species of the Great Lake system, ex- 

 tending also into the northern Mississippi drainage in which, more- 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



over, they are better developed. Still, the characteristic Mississippi 

 River types of Unionidce are not represented in the Fish-house fauna. 

 None of the triangular or round Unios with heavy teeth are found ; 

 no member of the great tuberculate or plicate groups occur. The 

 Fish-house fauna is therefore to be assimilated rather with the Great 

 Lake system than with the Mississippi or Ohio drainages. The spe- 

 cies probably found their way into the Atlantic system in New 

 York State, where the Lake and Atlantic waters are in close prox- 

 imity. They may then have become extinct on the Atlantic slope 

 during the glacial period when the rivers north of Delaware Bay 

 were so profoundly affected. 7 



Summary. — The writer has attempted to show (1) that the Fish- 

 house clay is a Pleistocene deposit, as held by Lewis, White and 

 some others, not belonging to the Cretaceous or Tertiary as Lea, 

 Whitfield and other geologists have claimed ; (2) that it is either 

 interglacial or preglacial, and probably the latter; (3) that it 

 is purely local and fluviatile ; and (4) that the structure of the 

 sand underlying the clay, now first made known, gives a clue to the 

 true explanation of the several geologic features of the deposit. 



The position of this deposit in the post-Pliocene series is one of 

 some difficulty, but materials bearing upon the question are not 

 wanting. We know that the immediately post-glacial mollusk fauna 

 of New Jersey was similar to the modern, except that it contained 

 forms of more northern distribution ; but there were no distinctively 

 trans- Alleghenian types such as the Fish-house beds contain. 8 The 

 very different character of the latter fauna would therefore indicate 

 an earlier period. It was therefore either interglacial or preglacial, 

 and the divergence of a part of the species from the most allied 

 living forms, as well as the fact that the fauna was an abundant one, 

 composed of large and well-developed individuals, point rather to 

 preglacial than to interglacial conditions. 



7 Those interested in the former distribution eastward of the trans-Alle- 

 ghenian Unionidse should consult Simpson, On some Fossil Unios from the 

 Drift at Toronto, Canada. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., XVI. p. 591. 



8 White Pond, in Sussex Co., N. J , a typically glacial lake, furnishes abund- 

 ant evidence in support of the above statement, and also shows the changes 

 which have taken place from post glacial to recent times in the mollusk fauna. 

 This evidence the writer proposes to publish as soon as engagements permit. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The average attendance at the meetings of the Academy during 

 the past year, from December 1, 1895, to November 30, 1896, was 

 forty. Verbal communications were made by Messrs. Woolman, 

 Goldsmith, Rand, Mercer, Brinton, Sharp, Yaux, Heilprin, Cope, 

 Chapman, Allen, Pilsbry, Carter, Keeley, Lyman, Holman,Sangree, 

 Egbert, Sommerville, Dixon, Leeds, Stokes, Campbell, Wistar, A. 

 P. Brown, Willcox, Frazer, Morris, Skinner, A. E. Brown, Rother- 

 mel, Henry, Leonard, Morsell, Dolley, A. D. Smith, Rhoads, Stone, 

 Fox, Reese, Ball, Horn, McCook, Seiss, Calvert, Balch, Hamilton, 

 Richardson and Miss Bascom. Those that were reported by their 

 authors were published in the Proceedings. 



Six hundred and nine pages of the Proceedings, illustrated by 23 

 plates, and 297 pages of the Journal, with 53 plates, forming Parts 

 III and IV of the tenth volume, have been issued. We are indebted 

 to Mr. Clarence B. Moore for the illustrations of both numbers. 



The publication of the Manual of Conchology has been continued 

 by the Conchological Section. During the year Parts 63, 64 and 

 64a of the 1st Series (Marine Univalves), and Parts 39 and 40 of 

 the 2d Series (Pulmonata) have been issued. The t former consists of 

 157 pages illustrated by 44 plates, and the latter 121 pages illus- 

 trated by 27 plates. The first parts of Vols. XVII and XI respect- 

 ively of the two series are now in press. The expense of publication 

 of the Manual, copiously illustrated as it is with colqred plates, is so 

 great that the Section would be unable to continue it were it not for 

 the support received from conchologists throughout the world. 



The Entomological Section and the American Entomological So- 

 ciety have published, during the same period, 288 pages and 7 plates 

 of the Entomological News and 386 pages and 11 plates of the 

 Transactions. 



This makes a total of 1,858 pages and 165 plates issued under the 

 auspices of the Academy since the first of last December. 



Forty papers have been presented for publication, as follows: — 

 H. A. Pilsbry, 5 ; Harrison Allen, M. D., 3 ; Samuel N. Rhoads, 3 ; 

 Edw. D. Cope, 3 ; Ida A. Keller, 2 ; Wm. J. Fox, 2 ; R. W. Shu- 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



feldt, M. D., 2 ; H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta, 2 ; E. L. Green, 1 ; 

 Witmer Stone, 1 ; Theo. Holm, 1 ; Thomas Meehan, 1 ; Amos P. 

 Brown, 1 ; O. F. Cook, 1 ; J. C. Hartzell, Jr., 1 ; Fredk. P. Henry, 

 M. D., 1 ; Chas. S. Dolley.M. D., 1 ; Frank C. Baker, 1 ; Cloudesley 

 Rutter, 1 ; D. S. Jordan and Cloudesley Rutter, 1 ; Wm. H. Dall, 1 ; 

 J. B. Ellis and B. M. Everkart, 1 ; Gilbert D. Harris, 1 ; S. N. 

 Rhoads and H. A. Pilsbry, 1 ; Charles Morris, 1 ; Edw. S. Balch, 1. 

 Four of these have been returned to the authors, two have been 

 withdrawn, four are held for publication next year, and the others 

 have been issued in the current volume of the Proceedings. In view 

 of the occasional appearance in newspapers of communications 

 offered to the Academy, on the recommendation of the Publication 

 Committee a resolution was adopted declining to print papers of 

 which more than a brief abstract had appeared elsewhere than in the 

 publications of the society. 



Thirty-five members and two correspondents have been elected. 

 The deaths of thirteen members and ten correspondents have been 

 reported, and the resignations of ten members have been accepted, as 

 follows : S. Emlen Meigs, Annesley R. Govett, Eugene Delano, John 

 C. Sims, Jos. C. Harrison, Francis B. Reeves, Theo. Presser, James 

 Y. McAllister, Frank T. Patterson and Adele M. Fielde, leaving a 

 gain of twelve members during the year. 



The contributors to the Building Fund having made their final 

 report setting forth the completion of the new lecture-hall and 

 museum building, the expenditure of the fund and the discontinu- 

 ance of the organization, the action was approved by the Academy 

 and the Recording Secretary was authorized to receive all the books, 

 papers and other assets of said contributors, and of the Board of 

 Trustees established by them. 



The resignation of Dr. Dixon as Professor of Histology and Mi- 

 croscopic Technology, presented in consequence of a press of official 

 duties, was accepted January 28. 



Dr. Henry Skinner was elected Professor in the Department of 

 Insecta, March 21. 



General Isaac J. Wistar was appointed the representative of the 

 Academy at the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of Lord Kel- 

 vin's tenure of office as Professor in the University of Glasgow. 



Prof. Angelo Heilpriu represented the Society at the Mining and 

 Geological Millenial Congress at Buda Pest. 



Dr. Persifor Frazer was appointed to represent the Academy at 

 the Seventh Session of the International Geological Congress. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



In response to an invitation, Dr. Charles S. Dolley was requested 

 to contribute to the proceedings of the Congres International de 

 Peches Maritimes at Ville des Sables d' Olonne. 



The report of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award 

 conferring the recognition for 1896 on Prof. Giovanni Capellini, hav- 

 ing been adopted, the medal and interest on the fund were forwarded 

 to the distinguished geologist through the Italian Consul, and their 

 receipt has been duly acknowledged. 



An important addition to the educational facilities of the Acad- 

 emy was formally provided for by the adoption of the following 

 resolution, June 30 : — 



Resolved, That the Committee on Instruction and Lectures of the 

 Academy be authorized to cooperate with the Ludwick Institute in 

 the delivery of free courses of lectures on the natural sciences, pri- 

 marily to the teachers in schools, and that the Academy expresses 

 its satisfaction with the plan proposed by the Institute for the ad- 

 vancement of public education. 



A resolution was adopted December 24, 1895, empowering the 

 President to designate annually two members of the Academy to the 

 electors of the Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology to serve as 

 managers of the Institute under the deed of endowment until their 

 successors shall have been appointed. 



A resolution urging the Commissioner of City Property to take 

 timely measures for the extermination of the tussock moth from 

 squares and city trees was adopted, and the subject referred to a 

 committee of entomologists who drew up and submitted to the 

 Commissioner a set of suggestions which, if carried out, would un- 

 doubtedly effect the very desirable object contemplated. 



The Academy's attention having been called to a bill before 

 Congress for the prevention of vivisection, a series of resolutions pre- 

 pared by a Committee consisting of Messrs. Cope, Sharp and H. F. 

 Moore, deprecating its adoption, was ordered to be sent to Washing- 

 ton as an expression of the Academy's views on the subject. 



The fourth Tuesday of each month has been assigned to the 

 Anthropological Section for cooperation with the meetings of the 

 Academy. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 

 Recording Secretary. 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 past year, commencing December 1, 1895, there have been received 

 from eighty-seven societies, museums, libraries, etc., one hundred 

 and eighty-two acknowledgements of the receipt of the publications 

 of the Academy ; and from forty-five societies, libraries, etc., fifty- 

 seven notices that their publications have been forwarded to the 

 Academy, together with eighteen applications to exchange publi- 

 cations for Reports, Proceedings, etc., and asking for missing num- 

 bers of the publications of the Academy. 



Twenty-five letters on various subjects have been received, and 

 twenty-six written. Twenty-one circulars and invitations extended 

 to the Academy to participate in Congresses or meetings, and an- 

 nouncements of the deaths of scientific men have been received 

 and, when necessary, acknowledged. 



During the year two correspondents have been elected and notified. 



The deaths of the following correspondents have been reported : — 



M. S. Bebb, of Rockford, Illinois, elected in 1881, died December 

 5, 1895. 



Don Antonio del Castillo, of Mexico, elected 1874, died October 

 27, 1895. 



Prof. Gabriel Auguste Daubree, of Paris, France, elected 1884, 

 died May 29, 1896. 



George Edward Dobson, of London, England, elected 1884, died 

 November 26, 1895. 



Prof. Alexander Henry Green, of Oxford, England, elected 1877, 

 died August 19, 1896. 



Dr. Juan Gundlach, of Havana, Cuba, elected 1867, died March, 

 1896. 



Sir Ferdinand von Mueller, of Melbourne, Victoria, elected 1876, 

 died October 9, 1896. 



Auguste Salle, of Paris, France, elected 1888, died May 5, 1896. 



Charles Wachsmuth, of Burlington, Iowa, elected 1886, died Feb- 

 ruary 7, 1896. 



Prof. Josiah Dwight Whitney, of Boston, Mass., elected 1852, 

 died August 19, 1896. 



Seven hundred and fifty-eight acknowledgements for gifts to the 

 library and eighty-three for gifts to tke museum have been for- 

 warded. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



575 



The additions to the library of the Academy since the last of Nov- 

 ember, 1895, have numbered 5,372, of which 4,357 are pamphlets and 

 parts of periodicals, 985 volumes, 22 maps and 8 photographs. 



They have been received from the following sources : — 



Societies, 



I. V. Williamsom Fund, 



Editors, 



Authors, 



U. S. Dept. of Agriculture 

 J. A. Meigs Fund, . . 

 U. S. Dept. of the Interior 

 PennsylvaniaState Library 

 Geological Surv. of Sweden 

 Charles P. Perot, . . 

 H. A. Pilsbry, . . . 

 Wilson Fund, . . . 

 Comite Geologique Russe 

 Ministry of Public Works 



France, 



Thomas Meehan, . . 

 U. S. Dept. of State, . 

 East Indian Government 

 Geological Surv. of Canada 

 Trustees of British Museum 

 U. S. Dept. of Labor, . 

 General Appropriation, 

 Geological Survey of India 

 Tennessee State Board of 



Health, 



Department of Mines, New 



South Wales, . . 

 Stewart Culin, . . 

 U. S. Treas. Department 

 Cal. State Mining Bureau 

 Geological Survey of Mis 



souri, 



U. S. Fish Commission, 

 Benjamin Sharp, 

 Bentham Trustees, Kew 



Garden, 



2,399 



1,140 



1,084 



166 



112 



62 



45 



44 



35 



34 



33 



16 



15 



14 



13 



12 



11 



10 



10 



7 



7 



7 



Conchological Section of 



the Academy, . 

 Chas. E. Smith, . 

 Department of Agriculture 



Victoria, 

 Geological Comm. Mexico 

 Geological Survey of Ala 



bama, 



Geological Survey of New 



Jersey, . . 

 Henry C. Chapman, . 

 Rev. Francis Barnum, 

 Secretary of State, Mexico 

 Secretary of Works, Mex. 

 U. S. War Department, 

 William E. Meehan, 

 Wm. J. Fox, .... 

 Messrs. Appleton & Co., 

 Messrs. C. E. Howe & Co. 

 Cochin Government, 

 F. M. Comstoek, . . 

 Department of Mines 



Nova Scotia, . 

 Geological and Natural 



History Survey, Minn. 

 Geological Survey of Iowa 

 Geological Survey of Mis 



souri, 



Geological Survey of Penn 



sylvania, .... 

 Geological Survey of Rou 



mania, . 

 Mrs. John Gilbert, 

 Guy Hinsdale, 

 Angelo Heilprin, 

 Harold Wingate, 




576 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



Illinois State Board of Ag- 

 riculture, 1 



BenJ. S. Lyman, ... 1 



Cyrus H. McCormack, . 1 



Maryland State Weather 



Service, 1 



Massachusetts State Board 



of Agriculture, ... 1 



J. C. Morgan, 1 



Metropolitan Park Com- 

 mission, Massachusetts, 1 



Minister of Education, On- 

 tario, 1 



Edw. J. Nolan, . . , . 1 



South African Govern- 

 ment, 1 



Geological Survey of Por- 

 tugal, 1 



U. S. Coast and Geodetic 



Survey, 1 



W. H. Harned, .... 1 



These accessions were distributed to the several departments of 

 the library, as follows: — 



Journals, .... 

 Geology, .... 

 Botany, .... 

 General Natural History 

 Agriculture, . 

 Anthropology, 

 Voyages and Travels, 

 Anatomy and Physiology, 



Entomology, 



Conchology, 



Encyclopedias, . . . . 

 Mammalogy, 



4,420 



187 



155 



127 



73 



43 



38 



37 



37 



33 



31 



28 



Ornithology, . 

 Mineralogy, . 

 Physical Science, 

 Geography, . 

 Ichthyology, . 

 M> •'Heine, . . 

 Helminthology, 

 Herpetology, . 

 Bibliography, 

 Chemistry, 

 Miscellaneous, 



26 



25 



21 



13 



13 



9 



8 



7 



5 



4 



69 



As heretofore, all additions have been promptly catalogued and 

 placed for use, the geographical arrangement of periodicals being 

 still retained, although the crowded condition of many of the cases 

 makes it difficult to preserve the classification, and, for the conven- 

 ience of the student, it is proposed to arrange the journals devoted 

 to special subjects in connection with the special departments of the 

 library. A number of new cases are being prepared which will 

 partly occupy space gained by the removal of the stock of the 

 Academy's Proceedings and Journal to a storage-room in the base- 

 ment of the new building, thus giving an opportunity for some con- 

 templated improvements in classification. 



A shelf list of the general Meigs library is nearly completed, and 

 a card catalogue of the portions arranged in connection with the 

 special departments of the Academy's library is proceeding as 

 rapidly as our very scant clerical assistance will permit. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



Six hundred and forty-nine volumes have been bound and sixty- 

 nine are now in the hands of the binders. This does not half com- 

 plete the work on the accumulation of unbound journals, and a 

 much more liberal appropriation than the Academy is at present 

 able to make is necessary to place the remainder of this most im- 

 portant section of the library in good working condition. 



Renewed effort has been made, as the several sets of journals have 

 been prepared for the bindery, to obtain a supply of deficiencies. In 

 many cases the replies to applications have been gratif) 7 ingly liberal, 

 special acknowledgment being due, in this connection, to the Im- 

 perial Academy of Science of St. Petersburg, from which 170 vol- 

 umes, extending back to 1726, and not heretofore in the library of 

 the Academy, have been received. 



Important additions have been made to the collection of lantern 

 slides, the formation of which was noted last year. Dr. Charles 

 Schaeffer has given 163 ; Dr. Benjamin Sharp, 36 ; Wm. Stevenson, 

 12 ; Silas L. Schumo, 3 ; while 26 were purchased, making the en- 

 tire collection 566. 



We are indebted to Mr. William E. Haydock for a fine crayon 

 portrait of Mr. John G. Meigs, whose legacy to the Academy was 

 recorded in my last annual report. 



On retiring from the Presidency at the expiration of his four 

 years of office, General Isaac J. Wistar contributed his portrait in 

 oil, by Vonnah, to the gallery of Presidents, thus completing a col- 

 lection of much value and interest. 



I am glad to again acknowledge the efficient services of my as- 

 sistant, Mr. William J. Fox. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The year just passed is especially noteworthy in the history of the 

 Academy on account of the opening of the new museum building to 

 the public. It has been impossible to prepare the entire building 

 for exhibition this year ; yet it was considered desirable to open a 

 portion of it to the public without further delay, and, in accordance 

 with this plan, the first and second floors, comprising the depart- 

 ments of Mineralogy, Archaeology and Mammalogy, were formally 

 opened October 20th with appropriate ceremony. 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Much time has necessarily been consumed in arranging and label- 

 ling the collections in their new quarters. In addition to the Wm. 

 S. Vaux Collections, representing Mineralogy and Archaeology, and 

 the Clarence B. Moore Archaeological Collection, which were ar- 

 ranged on the first floor of the new building during the present year, 

 all the other archaeological material has been arranged in new cases 

 procured for its reception, the majority of them uniform with those 

 containing the Moore Collection. Prof. F. W. Putnam, of Cam- 

 bridge, devoted some days to helping us in the general arrangement 

 and classification of the collections, after which they were finally 

 placed and labelled. The Peruvian and Egyptian mummies were 

 also arranged in new cases and displayed on this floor. 



The entire collection of mammals was transferred from the old 

 building to the second floor of the new museum, the old cases being 

 necessarily retained in use until new and more suitable ones can be 

 substituted. 



The series of mounted mammals is now displayed in a thoroughly 

 systematic manner and carefully labelled, with the families and 

 orders indicated in each case, an arrangement that was quite im- 

 possible in the former crowded galleries. Many recently mounted 

 specimens have been exhibited for the first time, and a number of 

 badly mounted duplicate specimens have been removed from the 

 cases to the study-collection of skins. Other poorly mounted speci- 

 mens are being removed as fast as new and better examples can 

 be obtained. In this way the inferior work of the old time taxider- 

 mists is being rapidly replaced by the life-like mounts that charac- 

 terize the modern art. 



The large collection of mammalian osteological material, which 

 was formerly so crowded as to render it inaccessible, has been care- 

 fully arranged in storage-cases on the first floor of the new museum, 

 where it can be consulted with great convenience, while an exhibi- 

 tion series, comprising skulls or articulated skeletons of the princi- 

 pal types, is exhibited on the mannnalogical floor. The large Baleen- 

 optera skeleton has been placed along the eastern end of this floor 

 and the smaller whale skeletons from the old building mounted and 

 placed near by. 



Notwithstanding the time required to prepare the new building 

 for exhibition, the work accomplished in other departments has been 

 considerable. The removal of so much material from the old build- 

 ing has made it possible to arrange the cases containing thepakeon- 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



tological collections to much better advantage, while the vacant 

 space under the south gallery has been partitioned off uniform with 

 the Entomological room, to furnish apartments for the Biological 

 and Geological Sections. Two additional commodious rooms have 

 been fitted up for the Botanical Section on the library floor. 



During the year the cataloguing of the mineral collection has 

 been continued, and a series of minerals from Pennsylvania and 

 New Jersey selected from the general exhibit, has been arranged in 

 the department of local natural history. 



Work on the invertebrate fossils has been mainly confined to the 

 Lea Eocene Collection. Through the liberality of the Rev. L. T. 

 Chamberlain, D. D. a third fine case has been procured for 

 the display of the collection, and Mr. C. W. Johnson has been 

 enabled to spend much time in arranging and labelling the speci- 

 mens and in carrying on valuable exchanges, besides making a short 

 trip to the Potomac Valley, where a large collection was made. 



In the Department of Vertebrate Palaeontology a valuable addi- 

 tion has been made to the museum by the final arrangement and 

 labelling of the Port Kennedy Collection. Work at the cave has 

 been actively and successfully pushed forward during the year by 

 Dr. Dixon and Mr. H. C. Mercer. 



Great progress has also been made in cataloguing and renovating 

 the collection of birds, so that this work is rapidly nearing comple- 

 tion. Many valuable additions have also been received, especially 

 to the Delaware Valley Ornithological Collection of local birds, the 

 increase of which has necessitated the addition of a new plate-glass 

 case for its accommodation. Further particulars of work in this 

 department will be found in the report of the Ornithological Section. 



In other departments the work has been mainly restricted to cata- 

 loguing and arranging the large additions received during the year, 

 and looking after the general condition of the specimens, which is 

 now excellent. 



The additions to the museum during the year have been note- 

 worthy. One of the most important of these is the archaeolog- 

 ical and zoological material obtained by Dr. Benjamin Sharp dur- 

 ing a cruise along the coast and among the islands of Alaska and 

 Siberia in the U. S. Revenue Cutter " Bear," during the year 

 1895. Besides fine series of native implements, there are valuable col- 

 lections of mollusks and birds, and a Pacific walrus ; also three fur 

 seals, which now make one of the most attractive groups in the mu- 



38 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



seum. Another, and one of the most valuable accessions, is a series 

 of mammals, birds, fishes and reptiles collected in Somali-land by 

 Dr. A. Donaldson Smith on his expedition through that country. 



Valuable collections of birds, mollusks and plants were likewise 

 obtained for the Academy by Mr. George Russell in British Guiana. 

 Another important addition is the collection of marine invertebrates 

 prepared in formaline by our preparateur, Mr. F. W. Walmsley. 

 Many other donations have been received, special mention of which 

 will be found in the appended list of accessions, including a number 

 of rare specimens from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia. 



The various collections under the care of special conservators 

 have received careful attention during the year, and to the gentle- 

 men who have rendered this important service the Curators would 

 express their indebtedness — to Messrs. Thomas Meehan and Steward- 

 son Brown of the Botanical Section ; Dr. Henry Skinner of the 

 Entomological Section, and William W. Jefferis, Curator of the 

 Win. S. Vaux Collections. 



Valuable assistance has also been rendered in various departments 

 of the museum by the students of the Jessup Fund : Miss Helen Hig- 

 gins, Miss Jennie Letson, Messrs. H. W. Fowler, William J. Ger- 

 hard, E. G. Vanatta and S. H. Hamilton. 



Henry C. Chapman, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



The Section has held the usual number of meetings during the 

 past year, and the attendance has been up to the average. 



Communications pertaining to the subject of the Section, have been 

 made at each meeting and usually specimens have been exhibited 

 under the microscope. The cabinet has been enriched by 158 botan- 

 ical slides, principally fungi, belonging to the late Dr. Rex and pre- 

 sented by his sister through Mr. Wingate. 



The microscope of the late Dr. Wm. Hunt, and forty slides, were 

 given by his widow. 



A room on the second floor of the Academy has been fitted up 

 by the Section and will soon be ready for occupancy. Aquariums 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



and work tables will be at the disposal of the members, and it is 

 hoped will be used for scientific investigation. 

 The officers of the Section are as follows : — 



Director, 

 Vice- Director, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, . 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Recorder, 



J. Cheston Morris, M. D. 



John C. Wilson. 



Chas. P. Perot. 



F. J. Keely. 



John G. Rothermel. 



M. V. Ball. 



M. V. Ball, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The arrangement of the conchological collection remains substan- 

 tially as reported last year, want of space preventing the progress 

 of the systematic rearrangement in the exhibition cases of the families 

 of mollusks studied and relabelled during the year, in connection 

 with the monographic work in the Manual of Conchology. The 

 remainder of the Tectibranch gastropods, including the Aplysiidoz, 

 Pleurobranchidoe, and Umbraculidoe, and of the land mollusks a 

 considerable part of the Bulimulido3, have been revised and prepared 

 for arrangement in the cases. The genus Cerion has been studied 

 by Mr. Vanatta and the Conservator, and the collection relabelled 

 and arranged according to a complete catalogue of the species pub- 

 lished in the Proceedings of the Academy. It is gratifying to state 

 that out of seventy described species of Cerion we are in possession 

 of all but seven, and have extensive series of most of the species. 



A portion of the American Slugs have been studied, and large 

 additions to the collection made ; partial results being given in a 

 paper published by the Academy, the greater part of this work be- 

 ing due to Mr. Vanatta's industry. 



A considerable collection of mollusks from Uruguay and adjacent 

 regions has been received from Dr. Wm. H. Rush, U. S. N., com- 

 prising many species new to the collection, and about twenty new to 

 science. 



A valuable collection of Alaskan mollusks, made by Dr. Benj. 

 Sharp, has been presented to the Academy, but not yet wholly de- 

 termined. The remainder of Prof. Heilprin's Bermuda collection 

 has been placed in the cases, and with what we already had, forms 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1896. 



probably the most extensive series of Bermuda mollusks in any 

 museum. 



The additions to our series of American mollusks have been very 

 numerous, the most extensive accessions being Mr. S. N. Rhoads, 

 collection of Tennessee shells, the series collected by Mr. C. W. John- 

 son and the Conservator in Florida in 1894, and a collection of marine 

 forms from Puget Sound, which we owe to the Young Naturali.-t's 

 Society of Seattle, Washington ; also, a large series of the recent and 

 post-tertiary mollusks of White Pond, New Jersey, collected by Mr. 

 Rhoads and the Conservator. Eighty-three persons, a list of" whom 

 is given in the record of additions to the Museum, have contributed 

 smaller numbers of mollusks to the collection. 



The Conchological Section and the Academy have purchased 291 

 species new to the collection during the year. 



The Officers of the Section are as follows : — 



Director, ...... Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



Vice- Director, 

 Recorder and Librarian, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, 



. John Ford. 

 . Edw. J. Nolan, M. D. 

 . Chas. W. Johnson. 

 . S. Raymond Roberts. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Section moved into the apartments provided by the Acad- 

 emy, which it now occupies, February 27, 1895, and immediately 

 thereafter work was commenced on the rearrangement of the 

 collections and library. Owing to the crowded condition of the old 

 rooms, it was impossible to attempt any proper arrangement, but, at 

 the present time, all our possessions are in a very satisfactory condi- 

 tion, and can be properly studied and used to advantage. The 

 members of the Section now feel that they are in a position to do 

 good work, as they have the space for growth of the collections and 

 library, and an incentive to advance. There has, undoubtedly, 

 been a greatly increased interest in our study among the members 

 of the Section which is likely to continue. During the past year 

 important additions have been made to the cabinet. Many species 

 have been presented to the display collection representing the fauna 

 of Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey. The meetings have 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



583 



been well attended, the smallest number of persons present at any- 

 meeting being eleven, and the largest seventeen. The scientific 

 communications have been of interest and of practical value in 

 the advancement of entomology. 



At the annual meeting, held December 17th, the following were 

 elected officers to serve during the coming year : — 



Director, ...... George H. Horn. 



Vice- Director, 



Treasurer, 



Conservator and Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Publication Committee, . 



C. S. Welles. 

 C. T. Cresson. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 W. J. Fox. 

 C. W. Johnson. 

 J. H. Ridings. 

 Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Botanical Section respectfully reports that this 

 department of the Academy is in a prosperous condition. It is free 

 from debt, and has a small surplus in its treasury. Meetings have 

 been held regularly at stated times when many matters of importance 

 to botanical science were brought forward and discussed. 



The progress and needs of the herbarium are well set forth in the 

 statement of the Conservator, Mr. Stewardson Brown, which is sub- 

 mitted as a part of this report. It is hoped that the Redfield Mem- 

 orial Herbarium Fund, efforts to enlarge which from outside sources 

 have been held in abeyance the past year, may soon be increased. 

 The income from this should be immediately available to aid in 

 securing additional collections, while the principal sum is growing 

 so as to secure the essential services of a Curator. The voluntary 

 labors of Messrs. Crawford, Beringer, Brown and Meehan, in arrang- 

 ing the herbarium and preparing the specimens for fastening down, 

 have been continuous the past two years. It will take some five or 

 six years, at the same rate of proceeding, to complete the task, even 

 if no additions were made to the collection. It is a question whether 

 it is wise to depend greatly on this assistance, and it is earnestly 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



hoped that the Redfield Herbarium Memorial Fund may secure the 

 active interest of the Academy. 



The officers for the ensuing year are : — 



Director, Thomas Meehan. 



Vice- Director, ..... Charles E. Smith. 



Conservator and Treasurer, . . . Stewardson Brown. 



Recorder, ...... Chas. Schaffer, M. D. 



Corresponding Secretary, . . .Jos. Crawford. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Director. 



In presenting this report for the year your Conservator is glad to be 

 able to announce that the work of permanently mounting the general 

 herbarium has been carried on steadily, and is completed nearly to 

 the end of the Composite, which should be a matter of congratula- 

 tion to all those interested in this very important work. 



Such an advance has been made possible through the untiring 

 efforts of the Director of the Section, Mr. Thomas Meehan, who has 

 devoted a large amount of his time to the work during the past 

 year. 



In this connection the Conservator wishes to acknowledge the 

 services of the Assistant in the herbarium, Mrs. E. F. Hocbgesang, 

 who has rendered most valuable aid in mounting and redistributing 

 the plants, fully ten thousand sheets having been handled during 

 the year. 



In additions this year has not been behind former ones, as 2,450 

 species and varieties have been added to the herbarium, of which 

 803 are lower Cryptogams and 1,647 Phanerogams and Ferns. They 

 are distributed as follows : North America, 1,500 ; Tropical America, 

 299 ; Asia, 241 ; Australia and Polynesia, 410 — adding about 600 

 species new to the collection. 



Among these may be specially mentioned the following: The 

 unique collection of Myxomycetes, forming the herbarium of the 

 late Dr. George A. Rex, comprising some 400 species, and presented 

 to the Academy by his sister ; 500 species of the North American 

 Grasses from the United States Department of Agriculture, through 

 Prof. F. Lamson Scribner ; 150 species of Alaskan and Siberian 

 Plants from Dr. Benj. Sharp ; 90 species of Jamaica Ferns from U. 

 C. Smith ; Centuries 34 and 35 of North American Fungi from Dr. 

 J. B. Ellis ; 172 species and varieties of Sphagna Boreali-Ameiieana 

 Exsiccata from Mr. George F. Eaton ; 375 species of Hawaiian 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 585 



Island plants, collected in 1895 by Mr. A. A. Heller, and purchased 

 for the herbarium ; 209 species of Mexican Plants, collected by 

 Prof. G. C. Pringle, and purchased for the herbarium ; and 241 

 species of Asia Minor Plants, collected by Prof. Bornmuller, and 

 purchased for the herbarium. 



The attention of the Academy is respectfully called to the fact that 

 the 825 species purchased during the past year, were paid for, not 

 from the funds of the Section, but entirely by two of its members. 

 Many very desirable collections were declined on account of the 

 lack of funds ; this is particularly to be regretted as regards the 

 plants of our own country, in which we are in many cases very defi- 

 cient. 



The creation of a fund for the purchase of such collections is im- 

 mediately desirable. 



Since the last report the Academy has placed at the disposal of 

 the Section two rooms formerly occupied by the Department of 

 Entomology. The one on the gallery floor has been partially fitted 

 up as a work-room. 



The room on the library floor, which it is designed to use for addi- 

 tional herbarium space, has not as yet been occupied to any extent, 

 owing to the lack of funds for furnishing. Additional cases for the 

 accommodation of the herbarium are, however, an absolute neces- 

 sity, as the present cases are crowded to an extent that is damaging 

 to the specimens ; it is therefore earnestly hoped, that before the 

 close of the next year, this most pressing need will have been 

 supplied. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewardson Brow t n, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOG- 

 ICAL SECTION. 



Ten meetings of the Section have been held during the year, with 

 an average attendance of ten members. A notable addition to the 

 facilities of the Section has been the laboratory erected on the first 

 floor of the Museum by contributions from the Section and its indi- 

 vidual members and from the Academy. This removes a serious 

 difficulty under which we have labored, and cannot fail to facilitate 

 its work. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Few additions have been made to the mineral collection of the 

 Academy, except to the local collection, which has been arranged in 

 part and displayed to advantage. It seems to have attracted the 

 attention of visitors. It is hoped that this collection may be much 

 increased in the near future, and that we may also have the means 

 of displaying a representation of the rocks of the vicinity of Philadel- 

 phia of which the Academy has a fair supply, while there has been 

 promised to the Section for the Academy a very large and nearly 

 complete series. 



Although not in the care of the Section, it may not be inoppor- 

 tune to call attention to the William S. Vaux Collection, which is 

 now displayed to advantage in the new building. The Conservator 

 of the Section holds the same relation to this collection, and to him 

 is due much credit for its condition. As he accepts no salary the 

 entire income of the fund has been applied to the improvement of 

 the collection. During the year many valuable specimens have been 

 added to it. The officers of the Section are : — 



Director, . Theo. D. Rand. 



Vice-Director and Conservator, . . W. W. Jefferis. 



Recorder, ....... Chas. Schiiffer. 



Treasurer, ...... John Ford. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Owing to the opening of the new museum building and the work 

 which it necessitated in other departments, the Conservator has been 

 able to devote but little personal attention to the ornithological col- 

 lections. Under his direction, however, Mr. Henry W. Fowler has 

 carried on the work of cataloguing the collection with such success 

 that quite as much progress has been made as in previous years, 

 while Mr. McCadden, the taxidermist, has been enabled to proceed 

 with the remounting of the exhibition series during several months 

 of the year. 



Since the last report, 7,386 mounted specimens have been identi- 

 fied and catalogued, and most of the specimens intended for the ex- 

 hibition cases remounted, while the types and a part of the dupli- 

 cate specimens have been unmounted and placed in the study series. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



These specimens aggregated 3,192, and all of them have been care- 

 fully labeled. Besides the 7,386 specimens entered on the rough 

 catalogue, 1,980 entries have been copied into the permanent cata- 

 logue. 



The groups catalogued during the year comprised all the remain- 

 ing families of the Picon Passeres, except the Trochilidse, together 

 with the Picarise and Scan sores. The exhibition series of all these 

 families has been remounted except the Coccyges, Psittaci and 

 Trochili, so that it will be an easy matter to complete the renova- 

 tion of the ornithological collection during the ensuing year. 



Owing to the liberality of friends of the Academy, we have been 

 enabled to procure nineteen air-tight cases for the reception of the 

 study series of skins similar to those already in use. This has en- 

 abled us to arrange almost all the unmounted specimens in syste- 

 matic order in the Section-room where they are easily accessible to 

 the student. 



The exhibition series of Passeres, Picarise, etc., has been arranged 

 in order in the large cases in the middle of the ornithological gallery 

 following the Rapacious birds, thus entirely clearing the wall cases, 

 except a few duplicate specimens which are placed there temporarily 

 until they can be unmounted. 



The additions to the collection during the year, while not as great 

 numerically as those of the previous year, comprise some exceed- 

 ingly valuable collections containing many species not before repre- 

 sented. 



The most important of these are the Donaldson Smith Collection 

 of African birds from Somali-land, containing duplicates of many of 

 the new species discovered by Dr. Smith, and the collection of 

 Alaskan and Siberian birds obtained by Dr. Benj. Sharp, which 

 well supplements the five series of the Arctic birds from the north 

 Atlantic already in the Academy's collection. Other noteworthy 

 accessions were a collection of British Guiana birds obtained through 

 Mr. Russell, and a small collection from Xova Scotia presented by 

 Mr. Robt. T. Young. 



The general condition of the collection is excellent, and the in- 

 creased facilities for study offered by the new arrangement have been 

 taken advantage of by a number of students, while specimens have 

 been loaned to specialists in various other institutions. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has held its meetings 

 regularly at the Academy, and aided materially in keeping up a 

 lively interest in the Ornithological Department. The collection 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



formed by the Club has steadily increased during the year, and now 

 fills four large cases, one of them a handsome plate-glass case de- 

 signed as a model for the cases needed for the display of the general 

 ornithological collection in the new building. As soon as these 

 can be procured, the entire collection of birds can be immediately 

 transferred to its allotted position on the third floor of the new build- 

 ing, as the work of renovation is now practically completed. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 21, 1896, 

 the old board of officers was reelected, as follows : — 



Director, Spencer Trotter, M. D. 



Vice-Director, 



Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



Geo. S. Morris. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Wm. A. Shyrock. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Witmer Stone, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Anthropological Section has been fully organized during the 

 present year by the adoption of By-Laws and the election of officers 

 in accordance with the requirements of the By-Laws of the Academy. 

 It has, at present, a membership of thirty-four, and during the year 

 has held eight monthly sessions. The principal communications 

 received have been from Dr. D. G. Brinton on " The Relations of 

 Race and Culture to the Degeneration of the Reproductive Organs 

 in Woman," and on " Hybridization ; " Dr. Harrison Allen on 

 " The Prenasal Fossa? ; " Prof. F. C. Kavanagh on " Right Hand- 

 edness;" Prof. Lightner Witmer on "Psycho-Physical Measure- 

 ments;" Dr. M. V. Ball on " Tattooing; " Dr. Chas. K. Mills on 

 " Nerves of the Sense of Taste," and by Stewart Culin on "Divin- 

 atory Diagrams." In addition, minor communications were on 

 various subjects. 



The officers of the section are as follows: — 



Director, Harrison Allen, M. D. 



Vice- Director, .... Dr. Newlin Peirce. 



Treasurer and Corresponding Secretary, M. V. Ball. M. D. 



Recorder and Conservator, . . Chas. Morris. 



Charles Morris, 



Recorder. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY. 



The Professor of Geology respectfully reports that, as in former 

 years, he has delivered the usual course of spring lectures, accom- 

 panied by Saturday field excursions. It is gratifying to be again 

 able to state that the interest in the study of geology, as evidenced 

 by the attendance at the lectures and participation in the excur- 

 sions, shows no diminution, but the reverse. In addition to the 

 regular Academy course, a special course of six lectures, introduc- 

 tory to the study of rocks and minerals, was delivered under the 

 auspices of the Ludwick Institute, the attendance at which was sig- 

 nificantly large. 



In his capacity of Professor of Geology, the undersigned was ap- 

 pointed by the Council and Academy to represent the institution 

 at the Millennial Mining and Geological Congress held at Budapest, 

 Hungary, on September 25th and 26th. A report of this mission 

 has been presented to the Council. The report makes reference to a 

 special journey in the north of Africa, where a superficial study was 

 made of the rock formations of the Atlas Mountains, with particular 

 reference to the determination of the existence of glacial phenomena 

 such as had been alleged to be found there. No evidences of past 

 glaciation could be detected. As a result of this journey, a fairly 

 extensive and representative collection of fossils was obtained from 

 the Atlas confines of the Sahara; these, when properly studied and 

 determined, will be placed with the collections of the Academy. 



The additions to the Academy's geological collection made dur- 

 ing the year have been neither particularly large nor important, the 

 most noteworthy, in the department ot Paleontology, being the ani- 

 mal remains obtained from Port Kennedy, Pa., by Mr. H. C. Mer- 

 cer. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Prof, of Geology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 

 ARCHAEOLOGY. 



I have the honor to report that, during the year 1896, 1 delivered 

 a course of six lectures, public and gratuitous, on subjects connected 

 with the study of anthropology. They were well attended and in- 

 creased the general interest in this branch of science. 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



The ethnological collections of the Academy have been rearranged 

 and labeled through the attention of the Curator, whose report will 

 supply the information required on that subject. 

 I have the honor to remain, 



Daniel G. Brinton, 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that 

 during the past year he has delivered eight lectures, six on " The 

 Action of the Environment Upon Animals," under the auspices of 

 the Ludwick Institute, and two : "A Summer in Alaska and Si- 

 beria" and "Alaskan and Siberian Natives," in the Popular Friday 

 Evening Course. 



The additions to the Museum have been neither numerous nor 

 important. 



A course of ten lectures on " Invertebrate Zoology " will be de- 

 livered in January, February and March, in the Ludwick Institute 

 Course, and, during the spring, a lecture on "The Sea and Its In- 

 fluence on Animal Life," in the Popular Friday Eveuing Course. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Zoology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR IN THE DEPARTMENT 

 OF MOLLUSCA. 



The Professor in the Department of Mollusca respectfully reports 

 that during the year he delivered a course of five lectures upon the 

 morphology of Mollusca and two upon " Economic Uses of Mol- 

 lusca" and " Mollusks of the Atlantic Coast." 



In the Museum considerable progress has been made in the revis- 

 ion of the land mollusks, and many additions to the collection have 

 been received as noted in the report of the Conchological Section. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Prof, of Malacology. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR IN THE DEPARTMENT 

 OF INSECTA. 



Having been elected to the Professorship of the Department of 

 Insecta on the thirtieth day of March, 1895, I have the honor to 

 submit this, my first report. Some idea of the field covered in this 

 department may be derived from the fact that we have about 

 126,000 specimens in the collection, divided as follows : — 



Lepidoptera, ..... 33,600 specimens. 



Coleoptera, ..... 43,800 specimens. 



Hymenoptera, .... 36,240 specimens. 



Neuroptera, ..... 2,400 specimens. 



Diptera, ~\ 



Hemiptera, [■ . . . . . 10,000 specimens. 



Orthoptera, ) 

 These collections are believed to be in a better state of arrange- 

 ment and preservation than ever before, and museum pests have been 

 almost annihilated. The Conservator of the Entomological Sec- 

 tion has been greatly aided by members interested in the several 

 orders, and much valuable work has been done by them in the de- 

 partments in which they make special studies. It is hoped that the 

 fine collection of local insects will soon be completed by the aid of 

 the Feldman Collecting Social of Philadelphia and individual mem- 

 bers. The department needs new cases to replace the older ones 

 that are not absolutely safe, and, in the future, metal cases, which 

 can be practically hermetically sealed against dust and pests, should 

 be secured. 



A course of five lectures has been delivered covering the general 

 subject, including the classification, anatomy, orders, technic, and 

 economic or practical entomology. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Henry Skinner. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WM. S. VAUX 

 COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections reports that dur- 

 ing the year there have been added to the mineralogical cabinet, by 

 purchase, 185 specimens. A nugget of native gold from Alaska 

 was presented by C. B. Moore, bringing the number of specimens 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



in the collection, November 30, 1896, to 7,966. Several of the 

 specimens thus added are new to the collection. Attention is espe- 

 cially called to a superb crystal of green tourmaline with pink ter- 

 minations. It is probably the finest specimen yet found at Haddam, 

 Conn. The collection is in good order. No addition has been made 

 to the archaeological section. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Wm. W. Jefferis, 



Curator. 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



593 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee to serve during 1897, was held with the following re- 

 sult : — 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three years, 



Finance Committee, 



Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 

 Thomas Meehan. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 

 George Vaux, Jr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 Henry C. Chapman, M. D. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown. 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 

 Thomas A. Robinson. 

 Harrison Allen, M. D. 

 Chas. Morris. 

 Isaac J. Wistar. 

 Charles Morris. 

 Chas. E. Smith. 

 Uselma C. Smith. 

 William Sellers. 

 Charles P. Perot. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1896. 



MEMBERS. 



January 28. — James C. Corry, P. Calvin Mensch, M.D., Ph.D. } 

 J. Norris De Haven, Edw. Gideon, A. M., Geo. de Schweinitz, M. D., 

 Ruth Clement, M. D., Chas. E. Hite, Henry Trimble, C. Howard 

 Colket, Sarah Y. Stevenson. 



February 25. — Arthur N. Leeds, Morris Earle, H. W. Wenzel, 

 George L. Farnum, J. Edward Farnum, Vickers Oberholtzer, Ph.D., 

 Homer E. Hoopes, A. Feldpauch. 



March 81. — Jacob Reese, Louis S. Amonson, E. G. Conklin, 

 Mary T. S. Schaeffer, Walter P. Stokes, Charles L. Phillips, 

 A. Donaldson Smith, M. D. 



April 28. — Wm. H. Roberts. 



August 25. — Thomas Chalkley Palmer. 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



September 29. — J. Howard Breed, Mrs. F. G. Dixon, Effingham 

 B. Morris, Curwin Stoddart, Jr. 



October 27. — Henry A. Laessle, George C. Harlan, M. D., 

 William M. Singerly, Henry Beates, Jr., M. D. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



October 27. — W. C. Roentgen of Wiirzburg, Germany. 

 November 2Jf. — R. A. Philippi of Santiago, Chili. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1896. 

 Archaeology, Ethnology, Etc. 



Alaskan Expedition (collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp). Large collec- 

 tion of native implements from Alaska and Siberia. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Indian Tepee Door, Colorado. 



Clarence B. Moore. Large collection of implements, etc., from the 

 Florida Indian mounds. 



Dr. W. H. McGrath. Arrow-head from the interior of Brazil. 



Dr. H. C. McCook. Several Indian mortars and pestles. 



Mammals. 



Alaskan Expedition (collected by Dr. Benj. Sharp). Eighteen skins 

 and two alcoholic mammals, Alaska and Siberia, also three skins 

 and skulls of fur seal, Callotaria ursina (mounted in group). 



Wm. L. Baily. Seiurus carolinensis pennsylvanicus (mounted), Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Geo. B. Benners. Five skulls of Texan mammals. 



Chas. Bradley. Putorius noveboracensis. 



M. Corley. Desiccated specimen of rat (3Ius decumanus). 



Edmund Coxe. Mounted specimen of Ornithorhynchus anatinut. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Seven skulls of mammals, and vicera of Macro- 

 rhinus. 



I. N. DeHaven. Alcoholic specimen of Blarina brevicauda floridana , 

 Florida. 



Exchange. Two skins of Peromyscus niveiventris. 



J. Edward Farnum. Three skulls of African mammals. 



Fesquet Estate. Horns of chamois and whale's tooth. 



Wm. J. Gerhard. Specimen of Scalops aquaticus, Pennsylvania. 



David McCadden. Seiurus niger cinereus (mounted), West Virginia. 



Purchased. Skin and skeleton of Anoa depressieornk Celebes, and 

 Ovis cervina (mounted). 



Purchased through Mr. Bussell in British Guiana. Four skulls and 

 three skins of mammals. 



Saml. N. Rhoads. Eight rodents from Wisconsin (two mounted, six 

 in alcohol) ; nine alcoholic mammals, Mammoth Cave, Kentucky : 

 39 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



twentv-five mammals, Clinton Co., Pa. ; six mammals, Warren Co., 

 N. J. ; skull of Putorius vison, Maine ; skull of Fells domestica. 



Dr. Benj. Sharp. Jaw of Dolphin, Nantucket, Mass. 



Dr. A. Donaldson Smith. One hundred and thirty-five mammals (al- 

 coholic and skins) from N. E. Africa, 



Tennessee Expedition, 1895 (collected by S. N. Rhoads). One hun- 

 dred and twenty mammals (skins and alcoholic). 



James Upton. Mounted specimen of Pithecus satanus. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted : Coelogenys paca, Tra- 

 gulus meminna, Semnopithecus obscurus, Cercopithecus caUUrichus, 

 Macaeus nemestrinus, Choloepus didactylus, Meles meles, Cephalophus 

 coronatus, Belideus sciureus, Halmaturus dorsalis. Skins and skulls : 

 Procyon cancrivorus, Petaurus sciureus, Maeropus rufus bennetti, 

 Sciurus badging (2), Dasyprocta prymnolopha, Trichosurus vulpinus, 

 Capromys fournieri, Midas sp. Skeletons: Felis pardalis, Hyaena 

 striata, Hyaena crocuta. Viscera of Hyaena crocuta. 



Birds. 



Alaskan Expedition (collected by Dr. Benj. Sharp). One hundred ami 



two bird skins and forty-eight eggs from Alaska and Siberia. 

 E. A. Barbour. Skin of Trogon resplendens. 

 G. B. Benners. Skin of Peucaea ruficeps eremoeca , Texas. 

 Dr. H. C. Chapman. Penguin and Toucan in alcohol. 

 Edmund Coxe. Mounted specimen of Apteryx owerti. 

 Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Twelve mounted birds, ten 



nests, nine sets of eggs. Pennsylvania and New J. i 

 Mrs. B. W. Douglass. Skin of Paradisea apoda. 

 Exchange. Nine skins of Liberian bird-. 

 Dr. "Win. E. Hughes. Seven skins of birds, Quebec. 

 David McCadden. Corvus corax principalis, Virginia (skin). 

 George S. Morris. Passer domesticus albino (skin). 

 Dr. Win. Pepper. Two skins of Ptarmigan. 

 Purchased. Aquila chryseetos (mounted), Virginia; three skins ot 



Conurns carolinensis, Florida. 

 Purchased through Mr. Russell in British Guiana. Forty-two skins of 



birds and skeleton of Opisthocomus. 

 Saml. N. Rhoads. Skin of Ceophloeus pileatus, Clinton Co.. Pa. 

 Leander Rogers. Ardea herodias, New Jersey (skin). 

 John Siner. Three mounted birds. 

 Dr. A. Donaldson Smith. One hundred and thirty-eight skins of birds 



and twelve nests from north-eastern Africa. 

 Uselma C. Smith. Nest of TrochUus colubris. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



Mrs. J. M. Thomas. Pair of mounted wood ducks. 



Visitor. Twelve skins of South American birds. 



R. T. Young. Sixty-two skins of birds from Nova Scotia. 



Archiclaus Willets. Tringa maritima for D. V. 0. C. Collection 

 (mounted). 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted: Ibis stictipennis, Dro- 

 mius novss-hollandiss, Penelope super ciliaris, Chrysolophus amherstix, 

 Phasianus reevesi, Penelope sp. Skins : Callcenas nicobarica, Pterocles 

 arenarius, Ocyphaps lophotes, Aramides mangle, Chenopsis abrata, 

 Phlogenas lugonica, Caccabis sp. , Gennseus swinhoei, Cereopszs novas 

 hollandise, Chrysolophus amhherstias, Turacus buffoni, Turtur turtur. 

 Skeleton : Casuarius casuarius, Olor cygnus. Skulls and sterna : Olor 

 cygnus, Anhinga anhinga, Dendrocygna sp., Dacelo gigas. Egg of 

 Emu. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



H. C. Borden. Two specimens of Rana clamitans, Pennsylvania. 

 Dr. S. G. Dixon. Specimens of Bufo lentiginosus and Liopeliis vemalis, 



Maine. 

 Exchange. Ten jars of reptiles, Argentina, S. A. 

 E. B. Hendricks. Toad with five legs, Philadelphia. 

 Philip Laurent and Dr. Castle. Twelve reptiles and batrachians from 



Enterprise, Fla. 

 H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson. Specimen of Rana pipiens and 



twenty-one eggs of gopher turtle, specimen Rana sp. 

 Purchased (through Mr. Russell). Specimen of Elaps lemniscatus. 

 Dr. Benj. Sharp. Gonatodes albogularis, Tobago. 

 Fredk. Sterns. Two lizards, Japan. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Sixty-four reptiles, Pennsylvania; three from British 



Columbia. 

 Dr. A. Donaldson Smith. One hundred and forty-eight reptiles from 



north-eastern Africa. 

 J. S. "Wills. Amblystoma opacum, New Jersey. 

 H. W. Wenzel. Seventeen reptiles and batrachians from Cranberry, 



K C. 

 E. G. Vanatta. Hyla sp., Aromochelys odoratus, Maryland. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Python reticularis, Caimon sclerops, 



Vipera ammodytes. 

 Lt. Hugh Willoughby. Eggs of Florida crocodile. 



Fishes. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman, Myxine glutinosa, Petromyson marinus and Lepido- 

 siren paradoxa. 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



Seth E. Meek. Two hundred and sixty-two fresh-water fish from 



Iowa, Arkansas and Indian Territory. 

 Dr. A. Donaldson Smith. Collection offish from N. E. Africa. 

 Edw. H. Williams. Dried fish from Japan. 

 T. W. Walmsley. One flounder in formaline. 



Lower Invertebrates. 



Alaskan Expedition (collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp). A large 

 series of marine invertebrates from coasts of Alaska and Siberia. 



F. W. Walmsley. Thirty jars of specimens from the Atlantic coast 

 preserved in formaline. 



Mrs. Corlies. Case of corals. 



Crustacea. 

 F. W. Walmsley. Very large specimen of lobster, Newport, R. I. 



Insecta. 



C. W. Johnson. One case of Diptera, Pennsylvania and New Jere 

 Philip Laurent. Five cases of Neuroptera, Pennsylvania and New 



Jersey. 

 Feldman Collecting Social. One case of Coleoptera. Pennsylvania 



and New Jersey. 

 Dr. William Pepper. Nest of trap-door Bpider. 



Recent Molldbca. 



Mrs. George Andrews. Twenty-two species from Tennessee and 

 Florida. 



D. I). Baldwin. Ten species Hawaiian land shells; ten bottles al- 

 coholic mollusks. 



F. C. Baker. BytMneUa and Vertigo from Chicago, 111. 



W. T. Bednall. Ten species of S. Australian Polyplaeophora. 



Wilfred Bendall. Cerion, etc., New Providence, Bahamas. 



Charles P. Berkley. Pleistocene (shell-marl) fossils from Minnesota. 



Wesley Browning (in exchange). Limnseidae from Utah. 



Fred L. Button. Collection <>t' sinus from Oakland, Gal., including 



types of AphaUarion Buttoni (see Proceedings, p. 33 

 Dr. R. Ellsworth Call. Carychium and Unto from Kentucky. 

 Mrs. Julia E. Campbell. Punctum pasadenx, types. 

 John H. Campbell. Two species of mollusks. 

 Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. Twenty-seven species marine shells. 

 L. T. Chamberlain, D. D. Seventy-nine trays of land and fresh water 



shells from Mississippi and Louisiana, collected by C. W. Johnson. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



Geo. H. Clapp. Omphalina inornata Say (Albino) and other shells 

 from western Pennsylvania. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Land shells from Colorado, New Mexico and 

 Mexico (see Nautilus, X, p. 59). 



Dr. J. C. Cox. Ten species of Australian mollusks. 



Wm. H. Dall. Sixteen species Californian and Lower Californian 

 land shells (alcoholic). 



O. Debeaux (in exchange). Collection of N. African Helices. 



W. H. DeCamp. Bythinella from Grand Rapids, Mich. 



John Ford. Thirteen species of shells new to the collection. 



Wm. J. Fox. Two species of mollusks. 



A. H. Gardner. Eight species of Canadian shells. 



Mrs. E. M. Gaylord. Living Helices and alcoholic slugs from Oregon. 



Langdon Gibson. Six species of marine shells from Greenland. 



G. K. Gude. Corilla fryae, n. sp. 



A. W. Hanham. Five species land and fresh water shells from Can- 

 ada. 



Charles Hedley. Four species Australian mollusks. 



Angelo Heilprin. One hundred and fifty-seven species of shells from 

 Morocco and Bermuda. 



A. U. Henn. Specimen of Pugnas parvus Hedley, n. sp. 



H. von Ihering. Ten species of S. American snails. 



Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History. Collection of aquatic 

 Gastropods from Havana, Illinois. 



W. W. Jefferis. Campeloma, Unionidte and Limnxidx from New York. 



C. W. Johnson. Corbula and eleven other species from Florida (see 

 also Pilsbry and Johnson). 



F. R. Latchford. Nineteen species Canadian shells. 



Miss Jennie E. Letson. Two species. 



H. Loomis (in exchange). Japanese mollusks. 



J. G. Malone. Slugs from Oregon. 



Wm. B. Marshall. Succinea from Cape May, N. J. 



E. H. Matthews. Ephippodonta, Mylitta, etc., from S. Australia. 



D. N. McCadden. Two land shells from Virginia. 



Edmund S. Meany. Specimens of Saxicava arctica and Littorina scu- 

 tulata. 



Clarence B. Moore. Four species Georgia and Florida shells. 



Geo. H. Pepper. Limnsca bulimoides Lea (through G. H. Clapp). See 

 Nautilus, X, p. 96. 



Miss Caroline Phoebus. Mya arenaria from Maryland. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Seventy-eight species fresh water and marine shells 

 from Pennsylvania and Texas. 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson. Two hundred and fifty-three trays 

 land and aquatic mollusks from the St. John's River, Fla. 



H. A. Pilsbry and S. N. Rhoads. One hundred and sixty-eight trays 

 fossil and recent shells from White Pond, X. J., and adjacent coun- 

 try. 



John Ponsonby. Seven species of Helices new to the collection (in 

 exchange). See Proceedings, p. 15, etc. 



E. J. Post (in exchange). Collection of Tampa Silex beds fossils. 



P. B. Randolph. Collection of slugs, etc., from Washington. 



W. J. Raymond. Types of Ischnochiton aspidaulax. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Sixteen species of land and marine shells. 



Edw. W. Roper. Sixteen species of land shells. 



Dr. Wm, H. Rush. One hundred and three species of mollusks from 

 Cape Verde Is. and South America. 



H. E. Sargent. Fifteen species Alabama mollusks. 



Dr. Benj. Sharp. Thirteen species West Indian shells. 



Morris Shick. Sixteen species local mollusks. 



Miss C. A. Shepard. Goniobasis from Florida. 



Ida . M. Shepard. Collection of West Coast American shells. 



Howard Shriver. Seven species land shells from Maryland. 



Edw. Simpson. Two species marine shells. 



Dr. Henry Skinner. Eight species of land shells from North Carolina. 



Dr. A. Donaldson Smitb. Seven species African shells. 



U. C. Smith. Shells from Jamaica. 



Frederick Stearns. Twenty Bpecies Japanese mollusks. 



Dr. V. Sterki. Four species Ohio mollusks. 



C. P. Streator. Three species from Cayman 1-. 



L. H. Streng. Bythinia, etc., from Michigan, 



E. R. Sykes. Eight species of Chiton from Port Phillip. Australia. 



Rev. Geo. W. Taylor. Three species British Columbian sheila 



Tennessee Expedition, collected by S. N. Rhoads. Five hundred and 

 fourteen trays of mollusks. mainly from Tennessi < . 



Lancaster Thomas. Five species land shells. North Carolina. 



E. G. Vanatta. Thirteen species shells from Maryland. 



H. D. Van Nostrand. Fifty-two species of WY.-t Indian land shells 

 (through S. Raymond Roberts). 



Dr. J. W. Velie. Thirteen species Florida shells with type- of Mat- 

 ginella Veliei (see Proceedings, p. 21). 



Bryant Walker. Forty-live species from Michigan. 



Robert Walton Collection, 176 species. 



A. G. Wetherby. Twenty-four species land shells from North Carolina. 



11. W. Wenzel. Six species land shells from Cranberry, > 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



J. J. White. Eight species Florida shells. 



Joseph Willcox. Thirty-five trays of Fulgur, etc. 



Mrs. M. Burton Williamson. Five species Californian mollusks. 



B. H. Wright. Four species Florida mollusks. 



Young Naturalists' Society, Seattle, Wash. Collection of marine shells. 



Purchased by the Academy of Natural Sciences and the Conchological 



Section: Two hundred and ninety-one species new to the collection ; 



also a small collection made by G. F. Russell in British Guiana. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Uselma C. Smith. Thirty-nine trays of fossil mollusca from Jamaica. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon and Henry C. Mercer. A large collection of mam- 

 malian remains from the deposit at Port Kennedy, Pa. 



Plants. 



Dr. Aldridge. Seven species of North American plants. 



Lucien H. Alexander. Thirty -five species of Hawaiian Island ferns. 



George M. Beringer. Six species of North American plants. 



Stewardson Brown. Three hundred and seventy-five species of Ha- 

 waiian Island plants and twenty species of Underwood and Cook's 

 Hepatiese americanx. 



George F. Eaton. One hundred and seventy-two species Sphagna 

 Boreali- Americana Exsiccati. 



J. B. Ellis. Centuries 34 and 35 of North American fungi. 



Benjamin Heritage. Seven species of North American plants. 



W. W. Jefferis. Five species of North American plants. 



Charles Lippincott. Specimen of Ch-indelia squamosa.. 



Thomas Meehan. Forty species of North American plants, two hun- 

 dred and nine species of Mexican plants collected by Pringle, and 

 two hundred and forty-one species of Asia Minor plants collected by 

 Bornmiiller. 



Miss Bex. Five hundred species of Myxomycetes, Collection of Dr. 

 G. A. Bex. 



Benjamin H. Smith. Specimen of Rhamnv.s smithii. 



Uselma C. Smith. Ninety species of Jamaica ferns. 



Baron Ferdinand Von Miiller (through Mr. Meehan). Thirty-five 

 species of Australian plants. 



Mixer als, Etc. 



Alaska Expedition (collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp). Five speci- 

 mens of minerals, Alaska. 

 Fesquet Estate. Fourteen boxes of minerals and ores. 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



German Kali Works. Salts from Strassfurt Mine. 

 L. A. Gettys. Monagite. 



■Geographical Club. Twenty-three trays of rocks from Greenland. 

 E. A. Groth. Two specimens of minerals. 

 John C. Johnson. Kaolinite and limonite. 

 Benj. Smith Lyman. Jade. 



■Gibson H. Prindle. Meteorite and small collection of minerals. 

 Theo. D. Hand. Singing sand. Massachusetts. 

 J. E. Richardson. Thinolite, Nevada. 

 Dr. H. A. Slocum. Small collection from Xova Scotia. 

 Joseph Walton. Marcasite and galena, Kansas. 

 Chas. J. Winter. Collection of minerals from various localities. 

 Wm. S. Vaux Fund. One hundred and eighty-five specimens of min- 

 erals for the William S. Vaux Collection. 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



603 



INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 

 1896. 



Acanthocalcis .... 37 



Acanthodactylus .... 466 



Acanthis 1-40 



Aceratheriura 507 



Achatina .... 414, 416 



Achatinella . . . 424, 429 



Acomys 527, 529 



Adelouycteris . . 204, 291, 517 



Agama 311, 462 



Agapostemon .... 38-40 



Agelaius . . . 116, 117, 134 



Agnatha 488 



Alasmodonta . . . 505, 506 



Allodape 557 



Amauropsis 474 



Amiva 312, 465 



Ammodesmus .... 257 



Ammodramus 111. 114, 116, 139 



142, 143 



Ammophila 552 



Amnicola 397 



Amnicolidse 495 



Ampelis 154 



Amphisbaena 313 



Amphisbsenidse .... 467 



Anadia 812, 465 



Anaptogonia . . . 379, 380 



Anculosa . 496, 497, 499. 500 



Anevlus 494 



Andrena . 33, 38, 40, 61, 81 



Angitrema 496 



Anguis 464 [ 



Anisodesrnus . . . 260, 263 ! 



Anniella 466 



Anniellidae 466 



Anodonta .... 506, 569 



Anolis 309, 463 j 



Anthidium 34 



Anthophora 34, 37, 40, 97, 555 



Anthus 163 



Antrostomus 130 



Apella 497 



Aphallarion .... 339-349 

 Aphilanthops .... 35, 37 



Apidse 555 



Apis 38, 497, 559 



Apterogyna 547 



Arctomys 193 



Arctotherium 384 



Ariolimax 339-349 



Arion 340 



Arionida? 340 



Arisaema 214 



Artiodactyla 507 



Aspilota 42 



Astarte 475 



Astatus 554 



Aster . 32, 33, 37, 38, 41, 60, 94 



Aulacopoda 488 



Auricula . . . 398, 405, 452 



Atalapha 203 



Ataxus 426 



Bactrodesmus 260 



Balanus 208 



Balea 425 



Barissia 464 



Basilicus 463 



Belonogaster 555 



Bembex 38, 552 



Berberis 214 



Bidens 39 



Bigelovia 32, 33, 36, 37. 40, 41. 

 62, 78, 82-'. 12 



Bison 176 



Blarina 185, 202 



Boerbaavia 33 



Bombus 35, 41, 61 



Bovidse 176 



Bovsidia 418 



Bruta 378 




604 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



Bubalis 518 



Bubo 515 



Bulla 208 



Bulimulidso 493 



Bulimulus . . . 397-446, 493 



Buliraus 418 



Calliopsis .... 30, 34, 40 



Callisaurus 463 



Callopistes 312 



Calotes 462 



Campeloma 495 



Campodesmus 257 



Campolsemus 418 



Cancellaria .... 475, 476 



Canidae 199 



Can is 200, 544 



Cardinalis 111, 117, 133, 139, 146 



Cariacus 393 



Caricella 479 



Carnivora . . . 197, 383. 51 1 I 



Carpodacus 139 



Cassidaria 47'.' 



Castor 192, 378 



Castoridfe 192 



Celastrus . . . 214, 216, 217 



Celestus 464 



Cenchrodesmus .... 257 



Centropyx .... 312, 465 



Ceophloeus L29 



Ceratina 556 



Cercopithecus 546 



Cereus 396 



Cerion 315 



Ceriphasia 496 



Cervicapra 519 



Cervidae 179 



Cervus 180 



Ceryle .... Ill, 117. 128 



Cha-tura . . . 116, 117, 130 



Chalicomys 507 



Chalicotherium .... 507 



Chameleon . . . 309, 311 



Chamseleonidse . . 461. 462 

 Chamsesaracha . . 35,65, 66 



( Jhauliougnathus .... 37 



Chelidon .... 154, 155 



Cheirodesmus 'J")'. 1 



Chilina 561 



Chilinid» 561 



Chilonopsis 418 



Chiroptera 203 



Chondrophora . . . . 33 



Chordeiles 130 



Choridesmus 261 



Chrysopsis .... 37, 95, 96 



Circinaria 488 



Circinariidse 488 



Cirrus 10, 11 



Cistothorus 104 



Cladothrix .... 32, 33, 82 



Clemmys 378 



Cleome . 34, 35, 39, 42, 60. 7m 



Cleostyla 418 



Clerus 37 



Clivicola 156 



Cnemidophorus . . 312, 465 



Coassus 393. 



Coccyzus 127 



Coelioxys 40 



Colaptes . . . 115, 116, 130 

 Colletes . . 35, 40, 66, 97, 555 



Colobus 5 16 



Comodesmus . . . 2 



< Mmpsodesmus . . 261, 264 



Compsothlypia . . 158. 159 



Contopus ' 132 



Conulus 400, 403, 405, 425, 148 

 Cophias .... 461, 



Corbicula 



Coreopsis 32 



Corvua 132, 133 



Corythophanea .... 163 



Cosila t 



Covillea 33 



Cratsegus 214 



( Iricetodon 



Crocidura 545 



Crocisa 



Crocuta 



Crossidius 



Crotaphytua 



Croton 84 



Ctenosaura . . . 463. 464 

 Cyanocitta .... 116, 132 

 Cyclura .... 311, 463, 164 



Cylichna 



Cylindrella 412 



Cyllene 479 



Cynailurua 



Cynedesmus 267 



Cypwea .... 315 474. 477 



Cyprenidse 



Cyrerridee 562 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



605 



111, 115, 116, 



309, 312, 

 116, 128 



Damaliscus 



Daucus 



Deilephila 



Dendroica 157- 



Dendromys 



Diacerion 



Diabase 



Diadasia 35 



Dicrocerus 



Didelphis 



Didelphyidae 



Dinocyon 



Diplarthra 



Diploglossa 



Diploglossina 1 



Dipsosaurus 



Discodesmus 



Dolichonyx 

 Dorcelaphus 

 Doryphorus 

 Dracaena 

 Dryohates . 



Ecphopus 



Elasmognatha 



Elephas 



El-aria 464, 



Elimia 



Elis 301-307, 



Elodea 



Empidonax 



Endodonta .... 416, 

 Endodontida? . . . 340, 

 Enyalioides . . . 463, 

 Epeolus . . . . 25, 39 

 Epomidiopteron .... 

 Erinaceus .... 507, 



Erithizon 



Equus 520, 



Eublepbaris 



Eucera 



Eumeces 



Eucbirote? 



Eumenes 



Eucheilodon 



Eumenida? 



Euprepis 



Eurvpaurus 



Evotomys . . . 184, 186, 



Felida? 



Felis . . . 201, 378, 542, 



Fiber 



Filaria 271 



518 Fusus . . 472, 47S, 479, 496 



216 Galeoscoptes 163 



33 Gastrodcmta 489 



-161 Gaultheria 214 



535 Gazella 519 



326 Gecconidae .... 464, 465 



219 Genet ta 543 



. 53 Geothlypis . . . 157, 158, 162 



507 Gerbillus .... 536-538 



176 Gerrhosauridse .... 466 



176 Gerrhosaurus 406 



Gerrhonotinse 464 



Gerrbonotus . . . 464, 467 



464 Giraffa 518 



461 I Glabaris 563-565 



463 Glires 379 



258 Glotella 496 



133 Golunda 534 



179 Goniobasis .... 496, 



463 Gutierrezia 32, 35, 36, 61. 83, B5 



465 86, 91, 92 

 Gynnodactylus . . . . 464 



460 Gypsodesmus 261 



493 Gyrotoma 407 



520 Habia .... 124, 139, 147 



467 Habrodesmus . . . 261, 265 



496 Halictus 33, 38,40, 53, 66, 81, 91 



549 Haminea 



212 Haplogale 507 



132 Harpa 472 



417 Harporhynchus . . 163. 164 



489 Helenoconcha .... 416 



464 Helieidfe 490 



,40 Helicina . 399-406, 451. 4'. '4 



298 Helicinida? 4'. '4 



544 Helianthus 38, 41, 43, 69, 104, 106 



378 Heliorvctus 554 



567 Helix 23, 398, 414, 415, 420, 425 



464 j 448 



555 Helmintherus 159 



466 Helminthophila . . . . 158 



313 Helmitherus 15"J 



554 Heloderma . . 309, 311, 312 



471 Helodermatoidea .... 462 



554 Helodesmus . . . 262, 263 



466 Helosale 543 



226 Heriades '.'7 



381 Hercodesmus 262 



201 Herpestes .... 507, 543 



543 Heteroeephalu? . . 539-541 



186 Heteroclonium .... 466 



-275 Hippopotamus .... 518 




606 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



Holbrookia 463 



Holopoda 490 



Holospira 412 



Holstonia 497 



Homo 205 



Hvsena 543 



Hyalinia .... 425, 447 

 Hydrocotyle .... 35, 59 



Hylobates 507 



Hyotherium 507 



Hypselostoma 418 



Icteria 162 



Icterus 111, 116, 124, 133, 136 



137 



Iguana 463, 464 



[guanidse 463 



Ilex 214 



Insectivora 201 



Io 187, 496, 497 



Ischnochiton 22 



[sodesmus 260 



Juga 196 



Junco 145 



Juncus 183 



Kobus 519 



Lacerta 461, 166 



Lacertilidae 166 



I.Mgoinys 507 



Lampodesmus . . . 261, 264 



Lanius 116, 156 



Larrea .... 33, 34, 62- "1 



Larus 515 



Lasionycteris 205 



Latastia 166 



Latirus 472, 476 



Leda 170 



Lepachys ' 38, 106 



Lepas * 208 



Lepidothyris 166 



Leporidse 183 



Leptinaria . 399-406,425, 451 

 Lepus . . 352-376. 878, 542 



Leucocbeila 146 



Levifusus .... 473, 17'.' 



Limacidse L89 



Limax ISO, 489 



Limicolaria 418 



Limnsea .... 108, 493 



Limnseidse 198 



Limneidss 561 



Linmophila 493 



Lindera 214 



Liocephalus 463 



Liolepis 462 



Lioplax 495 



Lipodesmus 263 



Liris 553 



Listriodon 507 



Lithasia 496, 497 



Litbocranius 519 



Lophiomys 524 



Lopburomys 534 



Loxia 140 



Lucina 478 



Lutra . . 197, 385,391,392. 504 



Lutreola 198 



Lyca?na 39 



Lynx 201, 78 



Lyrodesmu8 259 



Mabuia 466 



Macacus 185 



Macluerodus 507 



Macroscelides 545 



Mactra 471 



Madoqua 518, 519 



Magnolia 214 



Margaritana 505 



MargineUa 21 



Marsupialia 17»'> 



Mastodon 507 



Mazzalina 173 



Megachile . . . 40, 557, 



Megaderma 517 



M( jalochilua ■"•11 



Megalonyx 



Megara 



fusus 496 



Melampufl . 398, 4".".. 105, 452 



Melanatria 



Melanerpes 129 



M ania 



Melasma 



Meleagris 



M- lecta 34 



Melissodes .... 35, 88 



Mellivora 544 



Melospizalll,116, 139, 141, 

 145 

 Mentzelia . . . 32, 35, 61, 

 Mephitis .... 199, 385-391 



Meretriz 170, 477 



Merula 



Microdactylu8 



Microlophus 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



607 



Micromeryx 507 



Microtus 183-185, 379, 381-383 



Mimodesmus 264 



Mimus 163 



Miscophus 554 



Mniotilta 157, 158 



Molothrus .... 116, 117, 134 



Molybdenite 210 



Monoceras 473 



Monopeltis 467 



Motacilla 123, 126 



Murex 473, 476 



Mus 192, 530-533 



Musca 39 



Mustela 198, 199 



Mustelidse 197 



Mutelidae 563 



Mutilla 547-549 



Mutillidae 547 



Mva 227 



Myiarchud 116, 131 



Myoxus 507 



Myxine 294, 297 



Myxodesmus 267 



Nresiotus 426, 427 



Napodesmus 265, 267 



Natica 480 



Neotoma 192 



Nesiotes 426 



Nomia 40, 555 



Notogonia 553 



Xycteris 517 



Nycticejus 204 



Nyctisaura 462, 464 



Odynerus 97, 555 



Omphalina 488 



Omphalostvla .... 426, 427 

 Onchidella . 398, 399, 405, 455 



Onchidium 403-405 



Opeas 415 



Ophidia 461, 462 



Ophisaurus 465 



Opuntia 396 



Orasema 37 



Oreosaurus 312 



Oreotragus 519 



Orgyia 12 



Orthotomium 428 



Oryx 519 



Osmotherium 385 



Ostraa 11, 208 



Otocoris . . . Ill, 117, 132, 133 



Otomys 539 



Oxybelus 97, 554 



Oxydesmus 260, 263 



Pachnodus 418 



Pachycheilus 269 



Paehychilus 497 



Pachyglossa 462, 464 



Pachyotus .... 416, 418--423 



Palaeolodus 512 



Palaeomeryx 507 



Palseortyx 514 



Paludina 397 



Panopaaa 478 



Panurgus 38--40 



Papillina 474, 475 



Partula 415 



Parus 164 



Passerella 146 



Passerina .... 116, 139, 151 



Patula 416, 417 



Pecten 470 



Pectinator 542 



Pectis .... 32, 39, 82, 91, 92 

 Pedipes . . . 398, 403, 405, 452 



Pelecanus 512 



Pelecostoma 426 



Pelecypoda 500 



Pelodesmus 266 



Pelycictis 390 



Perdita 25-107 



Perido-Steatite 219 



Periploma 471 



Perissodactyla 507 



Perisoreus 132 



Peromyscus . . . 184, 187-191 



Petrochelidon 155 



Phacochoerus 518 



Philanthus 97 



Philomycida? 489 



Philomycus 489 



Phrvnosoma 311, 463 



Phyllodactylus 464 



Phymata . 37, 38, 39, 43, 104 



Physa 494 



Physidse 494 



Physignathus 462 



Phthiria 37 



Pinicola 140 



Pipilo 146 



Piranga 113, 115, 116, 124, 152 



Pisidium 500 



Plagiodesmus 264 




608 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



258, 



Planorbis .... 493, 561, 



Platydactylus .... 461, 



Plectrophenax 112, 115, 116, 



119, 



Plenoculus 



Plesio&orex 



Pleurocera 496- 



Pleuroceridae 



Pleurotoma . 471, 475, 478, 

 Pleurutomaria .... 10, 



Pleurotrema 



Plicatula 



Polioptila 



Polistes 



Polychrus .... 309, 311, 

 Polygyra . . . 15-19, 490 



Polygyratia 



Pomatiopsis 



Pompilidse 



Pompilus 



Poocsetes 



Potamotherium . . 

 Prepodesmus . . 

 Primates .... 

 l > ntl)osci(lc:i . . . 

 Procavia .... 

 Procyon .... 

 Procyonidae . . . 



Progne 



Pronodesmus . . 



Prophysaon . . . 



Pn 'sobranchiata 



Prosopis . . . 33, 34, 40, 81 



Protocardia 



Protragoceros 



Pseudopis 



Pseudopus 



I'srudoliva 



Pseudoconomya 



Pterodesmua 



Puffinus 



Pugrms 



Pulmonata 



Pupa . 399-406, 415--418, 



Pupidse 



Putorius 



Pyramidula t89, 



Pyropsis 



Quiscalus .... 114--117. 



Etanularia 



Regenia 



Regulus 



266, 



562 



464 



141 



30 



507 



498 



495 



480 



11 



11 



11 



165 



555 



463 



-493 



415 



495 



550 



.,:,n 



141 

 385 

 263 

 21 15 

 507 

 520 

 L97 

 197 

 154 

 267 

 341 



. '.'7 

 175 

 507 

 464 

 311 

 t78 

 531 

 261 

 512 



188 

 446 

 125 

 L98 

 490 

 476 

 139 

 179 

 310 

 L65 



Rhaphiellus 426 



Rhineiira 313 



Rhinoceros 520 



Rhipidoglossa 494 



Rhiptoglossa 462 



Rhizomys 542 



Rhynchium 



Ringicula 208 



Rodentia 181, 507 



Rostellaria 478 



Sagda 23, 24 



Salius 



Salix 33 



Sauria 461 



Sauromalus 463, 4t>4 



Saxiiraga 360 



Sayorrds 131 



Scalops 201 



Sceliphron 552 



Sceloporus 463 



Schizocheilua 197 



Schizostoma 497 



Scincidae 462, 466 



Sciuridae 193 



Sciuropterus \\>7 



Sciurus 116, 157, 161, 194- 



197, 507, 52] 



Scolecophagus .... 117. 138 



Scolia 298-300, 549 



Scoliidae 



Scolodesmus 261, 265 



Scolopendrella 



Scotophilufl 517 



Scutalua 



Scytodesmus 



Senecio 19, 94 



Bericophorua 



Setophaga 158, 168 



Sialia 165 



Siaphus 318 



Sipho 176 



Siphonalia 21, -17: 1 . 



Siphonaria W5, 4": , > 



Sisymbrium 



Sitta 164 



Solarium 214 



Solariella 477 



Solarium 177, -4 v i' 



Solidago 82, 86, 39, -41 



Somatogyrus 



s 202 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



609 



Soricidse 202 



Sphasralcea . . . 35, 53, 67, 68 



Sphseriu.ni 500 



Sphserophthalma . . . . 28, 37 



Sphecidae 551 



Sphecius 552 



Sphecodes 41 



Sphex • 551 



Sphyrapicus 115, 129 



Spinus 139--141 



Spizella . . . 116, 139, 144, 145 



Steatomys 529 



Stegodesmus 266, 267 



Stelgidopteryx .... 154, 156 



Stenogyra 415, 416 



Stiodesmus 262 



Strephobasis . . . 496, 498 499 



Strepsiceros 519, 520 



Streptanthus 39 



Strophia 315 



Strophiops 318 



Sturnella . . 112, 115-117, 135 



Stylodesmus 261 



Subulina 425 



Succinea 399, 400, 403, 405, 406 



416, 417, 448, 493 



Succineidaa 493 



Sylvania 112, 157, 158, 162, 163 



Synagris 554 



Svnaptomys 183, 184 



Tachea 425 



Tachvcineta 116, 117, 133, 



154, 155 



Tachyrhostus 554 



Tachysphex 554 



Taenioglossa 495 



Talpa 507 



Talpidse 201 



Tamias 193 



Tantalus 513 



Tanydesmus 264 



Tapinoma 36 



Tejus 312 



Telescopella 496 



Tellina 471, 477 



Tetraclita 208 



Thaumastus 427 



Thecadactylus 464 



Thecaglossa 462 



Thelydesmus 258 



Thryothorus 164 



Thysanophora 24 



Tiidae 465 



Tiliqua ..;.... 308, 313 



Tiphia 297, 298 



Tomigerus . . . . . 415-417 



Trachysaurus 466 



Tralia .... 398, 403, 405, 452 



Tremarctus 384 



Tributes 32, 34, 83 



Trigona 559 



Tringa 515 



Triton 479 



Trochilus 117, 131 



Trochomorpha 397, 400, 403, 



405, 447 



Troglodytes 164 



Tropidesmus 257 



Trypanostoma 496 



Tupinambis . . . 309, 312, 465 



Turdus 165 



Tylodesmus 259 



Tyrannus 131 



Udodesmus 262, 265 



Uncia 392 



Ungulata 176 



Unio 187, 488, 500-505, 569, 570 



Unionidae 500, 567 



Uraniscodon * . . 463 



Urocyon 199 



Uromastix 462 



Ursidse 199 



Ursus .... 199, 378, 383, 384 



Varanidae 461 



Varanus . . . 309, 310, 312, 461 

 Verbesina 32, 33, 36, 44, 91, 



99-106 

 Vespertilio . . . 203, 204, 291 



Vespertilionidfle 203 



Vesperugo 204 



Vespidae • 555 



Vireo 156, 157 



Vitrea 400, 403, 405, 406, 



448, 488 



Vitrinizonites 489 



Viverra 507 



Vivipara 495 



Viviparidse 495 



Volutilithes 478 



Volvox 233 



Vulpes 200 



Wedelia 32, 33, 83 



Williamia398, 399, 403, 405, 453 

 Xantusiidae 465 




610 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



Xerus • • 523 I Zapus 184 



Xiphocercus 463 Zonites 447 



Xylocopa 555, 556 Zonitidge .... 340, 425, 488 



Xyodesmus 262 Zonotrichia . . . 139, 143, 144 



Zamenis 378 



Zanthopygia . . . . 124, 126 



Zonurida? 464 



Zonurus 312 




1896.] 



NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



611 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1896. 



Additions to Museum, 595. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. A note 

 on a uniform plan of describing 

 the human skull, 168, 170. A 

 biographical sketch of John 

 Adam Ryder, 222. The ulna 

 of the common brown bat, 291. 

 The bones, muscles and teeth 

 of Tarsius fusco-manus, 560 (in 

 next volume). 



Anthropological Section, report 

 of, 588. 



Balch, Edwin S. Ice-Caves and 

 the causes of subterranean ice 

 (no abstract), 560. 



Ball, M. V., M. D. Report of Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, 580. 



Bascom, Florence. Perido-Stea- 

 tite and Diabase, 219. 



Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, report of, 580. 



Botanical Section, report of, 583. 



Brinton, Daniel G., M. D. Report 

 of the Professor of Ethnology 

 and Archaeology, 589. 



Brot, Aug. L., announcement of 

 death of, 566. 



Brown, Amos P. The crystalliza- 

 tion of Molybdenite, 168, 210. 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. The oc- 

 currence of Macacus leoninus 

 'Blyth) in Eastern Burmah, 485. 



Brown. Stewardson. Report of Bo- 

 tanical Section, 583. 



Capellini, Giovanni, conferring of 

 Havden Memorial Award on, 

 483. 



Castillo, Antonio del, announce- 

 ment of death of, 12. 



40 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. Re- 

 port of Curators, 577. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. The bees of 

 genus Perdita F. Smith, 25. 



Committees, Standing, for 1896, 9. 



Concbological Section, report of, 

 581. 



Conarroe, George M.. announce- 

 ment of death of, 468. 



Cook, O. F. Summary of new 

 Liberian Polvdesmidse, 206, 

 257. 



Cope, Edw. D. The mesenteries 

 of the Sauria, 290, 308. New 

 and little known mammalia 

 from the Port Kennedy bone 

 deposit, 377, 378. The hemi- 

 penes of the Sauria, 377, 461. 



Corresponding Secretary, report 

 of, 574. 



Curators, report of, 577. 



Dall, William Healey. Insular 

 land-shell faunas, as illustrated 

 especially by the data obtained 

 by Dr. G. Baur in the Galapagos 

 Islands, (Plates XV, XVI, 

 XVII), 377, 395. 



Dobson, George Edward, an- 

 nouncement of death of, 12. 



Dolley, Charles S., M. D. The 

 Planktonokrit, a centrifugal ap- 

 paratus for the volumetric esti- 

 mation of the food supply of 

 oysters and other aquatic ani- 

 mals, 268, 276. 



Elections during 1896, 593. 



Ellis, J. B., and B. M. Everhardt. 

 New species of fungi from va- 

 rious localities, 377 (in next 

 volume). 




612 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



Entomological Section, report of, 



582. 

 Ford, Henry C, announcement of 

 death of, 468. 



Fox, William J. Contributions to 

 a knowledge of the Hymenop- 

 tera of Brazil, No. 1, Scoliidse, 

 290, 202. The Hymenoptera 

 collected by Dr. A. Donaldson 

 Smith in Northeast Africa, 469, 

 547. 



Frazer, Dr. Persifor. Two sup- 

 posed new trap dykes in Chest< • r 

 Co., Penna., 206. Appoint- 

 ment as delegate to the 7th 

 International Congress of Geol- 

 ogists, 220. 



General index, 611. 



Gilbert, Samuel H., announce- 

 ment of death of, 207. 



Goodman, H. Ernest, M. D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 168. 



Gorgas, A. C, M. D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 9. 



Green, Alexander H., announce- 

 ment of death of, 484. 



Gundlach, Juan, announcement 

 of death Of, 207. 



Haines, R. 15., announcement of 

 death of, 9. 



Harris, Gilbert D. New and in- 

 teresting Eocene molluscs from 



the Gulf States (Plates Will. 

 XIX, XX. XXI, XXII. and 

 XXIII), 470. 



I lart/ell. .1. ( J., Jr. The minerals 

 of South Carolina, 206 (not pub- 

 lished). 



Hayden Geological Memorial 

 Committee for L896, 221. Re- 

 port of, 483. 



1 la/leiiurst, Henry, announce- 

 ment of death of, 168. 



1 1 ci I prin, Angelo, appointment as 

 delegate to the Mining and < Jeo- 

 logical Millennia] Congress at 

 Budapest, 220. Report of the 

 Professor of < ieoloffv, "'V. 



Henry, Fred. I).. M. D.,Remarks 

 on Filaria, 268, 271. 



Hunt, Win.. M. D., announce- 

 ment of death of. 220. 



Index to Genera, 603. 



Jefferis, Win. W. Report of the 

 the Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux Collections, 591. 



Jordan, David Starr. A collection 

 of fishes made by the Rev. 

 Joseph Seed Roberts in Kings- 

 ton, Jamaica, 290 (in next vol- 

 ume). 



Kellar, Ida A. The coloring mat- 

 ter of the aril of Celastrus scan- 

 dens, 168, 212. 



Leeds, Morris K.. and J.S.Stokes. 

 Communication on Roentgen 

 photography (no abstract), 206. 



Lewis, Samuel G., M. D. , an- 

 nouncement of death of, 10. 



Librarian, report of, 575. 



Median, Thomas. Contributions 

 to the life history of plants, No. 

 X 1 1, 16S (withdrawn by author). 

 Report of the Botanical Section, 

 583. 



Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, report of, 585. 



Moore, ( Harence B. < lertain abo- 

 riginal mounds of the Georgia 

 coast. 566 I for the Journal |. 



Morris, Charles. Report of the 

 Ant lii'i ipological Section. 58 3 



Mueller, Ferdinand von, an- 

 nouncement of death of, 486. 



Nolan, Edw.J., M. D. Report of 

 Recording Secretary, 571. Re- 

 port of Librarian. 575. 



Officers, etc., for L897, 593. 



Orgyia leucostigma, extermina- 

 tion of. 12. 



( Ornithological Section, repoi I 

 586. 



Pilsbrv . II. A. N( -a species of 

 the Helicoid Genus Polygyra 

 (Plates II and III). 10, 15. 

 Pleurotomaria crotaloidee Mor- 

 ton in the New Jersey * Ireta- 

 ceous < Plate I), 10. Descriptions 

 of new species of Mollusks, 12, 

 21. On a collection of barnacles. 

 208. Pugnua parvus, 208. A 

 remarkable Central American 

 Melanian, 220, 269. New spe- 

 cies Of fresh water mollusks 




1896.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



61! 



from South America, 486, 561. 

 Geology of the mussel-bearing 

 clays of Fish House, X. J., 486, 

 567. Description of new South 

 American Bulimuli, 566. Re- 

 port of the Conchological Sec- 

 tion, 581. Report of the Pro- 

 fessor in the Department of 

 Mollusca, 590. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and Samuel 

 X. Rhoads. Contributions to 

 the Zoology of Tennessee, No. 4. 

 Mollusks; 468, 561. 



Pilsbry, H. A., and E. G. Vanatta. 

 Catalogue of the species ofCer- 

 ion, with descriptions of new 

 forms (Plate XI), 268, 315. 

 Revision of the slugs of North 

 America: Ariolimax and Aphal- 

 larion (Plate XII), 290, 239. 



Professor in the Department of 

 Insecta, report of, 591. 



Professor in the Department of 

 Mollusca, report of, 590. 



Professor of Ethnology and Archae- 

 ology, report of, 589. 



Professor of Geolosr, report of, 

 589 



Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, 

 report of, 590. 



Rand. Theo. D. The serpentines 

 of Eastern Pennsylvania, 219. 

 Mica schists of the Schuylkill 

 River, 484. Report of the Min- 

 eralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 586. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 

 571. 



Report of the Anthropological 

 Section, 588. 



Report of Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 580. 



Report of the Botanical Section, 

 583. 



Report of the Conchological Sec- 

 tion, 581. 



Report of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary. 574. 



Report of the Curator of the Wil- 

 liam S. Vaux Collections, 591. 



Report of Curators, 577. 



Report of the Entomological Sec- 

 tion, 582. 



Report of Librarian, 51 5. 



Report of the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section, 585. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 

 586. 



Report of the Professor in the 

 Department of Insecta, 591. 



Report of the Professor in the 

 Department of Mollusca, 590. 



Report of the Professor of Ethnol- 

 ogy and Archaeology, 589. 



Report of the Professor of Geoloarv, 

 589. 



Report of the Professor of Inverte- 

 brate Zoology, 590. 



Report of Recording Secretarv, 

 571. 



Rhoads, Samuel X. Contribu- 

 tions to the Zoology of Tennes- 

 see, Xo. 3, Mammals, 12, 175. 

 A revision of the Polar Hares 

 of Xorth America (Plates VI, 

 VII, VIII, IX and X), 220, 351. 

 Mammals collected by Dr. A. 

 Donaldson Smith during his 

 expedition to Lake Rudolf, 

 Africa (Plate XXV), 468, 517. 



Rothermel, Peter F. , announce- 

 ment of death of, 168. 



Rutter, Cloudesley. A collection 

 of fishes obtained at Swatow, 

 China, by Miss Adele M. Fielde, 

 290 (in next volume). 



Ryder, John Adam, biographical 

 sketch of, 222. 



Salle, Auguste, announcement of 

 death of, 268. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Second 

 communication on Alaska and 

 Siberia (no abstract), 10. Re- 

 port of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary. 574. Report of the Pro- 

 fessor of Invertebrate Zoology, 

 590. 



Shufeldt, R. W., M. D. Dr. 

 Collett on the morphology of 

 the cranium and the auricular 

 openings in the north European 

 species of the Family Strigidae, 




614 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1896. 



208 (not published). Fossil 

 bones of birds and mammals 

 from Grotto Pietro Tamponi and 

 Grive-St. Alban (Plate XXIV), 

 468, 507. 



Skinner, Henry, M. D. Report of 

 the Entomological Section, 582. 

 Report of the Professor in the 

 Department of Insecta, 591. 



Skinner, Henry, M. D., and Win. 

 J. Fox. Report on extermina- 

 tion of Tussock Moth, 12. 



Smith, A. Donaldson, Communi- 

 cations on collections presented 

 by, (no abstract), 268. 



Stone, Witmer. The molting of 

 birds with special reference to 

 the plumage of the smaller 



birds of Eastern North America 

 (Plates IV and V), 12, 108. Re- 

 port of the Ornithological Sec- 

 tion, 586. 



Wachsmuth, Charles, announce- 

 ment of death of, 168. 



Walton, Jesse S., announcement 

 of death of, 168. 



Whitney, Josiah Dwight, an- 

 nouncement of death of, 484. 



William S. Vaux Collections, re- 

 port of the Curator, 591. 



Wistar, Isaac J., resolution of 

 appreciation tendered to, 10. 

 Appointment as delegate to Kel- 

 vin Jubilee, 208. 



Wister, Owen Jones, M. D.. an- 

 nouncement of death of, 168. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1896. 



PLATE 



- 



PILSBRY. PLEUROTOMARIA CROTALOIDES Mort. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA., 1896. 



PLATE II. 



'<■■■ 



_7 



' — ■, 



3 



"v. 



y. - 



7 



> 



r 



9 



PILSBRY. NEW SPECIES OF POLYGYRA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA , 1896. 



PLATE III. 



PILSBRY. NEW SPECIES OF POLYGYRA. 





PROC. ACAD. MAT SCI. PHILA 1 •• 



PLATE IV 



STONE. MOLTING OF BIRDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 



STONE. MOLTING OF BIRDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896 



PLATE VI. 



^ 





h 





>• 



^ 



RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE VII. 



4: 



V- 



7>V 





RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896 



PLATE VIII. 



RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 



PLATE IX. 



RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE X. 



RHOADS ON AMERICAN POLAR HARES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE XI. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA ON CERION, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA: ARIOL1MAX AND APHALLARION. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 



PLAT I 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA: ARIOLIMAX AND APHALLARION. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA 



PLATE XIV. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA: ARIOL1MAX AND APHALLARION. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 



PLATE XV. 



DALL. INSULAR LAND SHELL FAUNAS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE XVI. 



DALL. INSULAR LAND SHELL FAUNAS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. 1896 



PLATE XVII. 



DALL. INSULAR LAND SHELL FAL" 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 



PLATE XVIII. 



HARRIS. EOCENE MOLLUSCA OF GULF STATES. 



(JACKSON^fePECIES.) 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. 1896. 



PLATE XIX. 



HARRIS. EOCENE MOLLUSCA OF GULF STATES. 



VCKSON SPECIES.) 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE XX. 



HARRIS. EOCENE MOLLUSCA OF GULF STATES. 



(1-5 CLAIBORNE SPECIES.) 

 (6-12 UPPER LIGNITIC SPECIES.) 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



HARRIS. EOCENE MOLLUSCA OF GULF STATES. 



^LIGNTTIC SPE^ 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 



PLATE XXII. 



HARRIS. EOCENE MOLLUSCA OF GULF STATES. 



(LOWER LIGNITIC SPECIES.) 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE XXIII. 



HARRIS. EOCENE MOLLUSCA OF GULF STATES. 



(LOWER LIGNITIC AND MIDWAY SPECIES.) 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE XXIV. 



B. W. Shufeldt, ad. Nat. Del. 



SHUFELDT. FOSSIL MAM MALS AND BIRDS. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE 



PILSBRY DEL. 



PILSBRY. NEW SOUTH AMERICAN MOLLUSKS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1896. 



PLATE 





PILSBRY DEL. 



PILSBRY. NEW SOUTH AMERICAN MOLLUSKS. 









QH Academy of Natural Sciences 



of Philadelphia 

 A 2 proceedings 



Biological 

 3t Medic a i 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



'"- 





