A CATALOGUE OF THE FISHES OF BEAN BLOSSOM CREEK, MONROE COUNTY, INDIANA.
BY CARL H. EIGENMANN AND MORTON W. FORDICE.
BeaD Blossom is a small creek crossing Monroe County about six miles north of Bloomington.
It is a tributary of White River and empties into it near Gosport.
Indiana.
It is a rather sluggish stream with gravelly bottom, and considerable grass and water-weeds.
The specimens were collected by parties of students of the Indiana University, visiting the creek at different times.
Thirty-two of the species were also obtained by us on the 12th of September, 1885.
1.
Ammocmtes branchialis L. Abundant in spring.
'J.
Xoturus gyrinus Mitchill.
'■'hale8 promelns (Raf.).
Eight very fine specimens (all males) were gotten from a small stream which flows into Timber Creek near Winfield.
5.
Pimephales notatus (Raf.).
A tew specimens were obtained at Newton.
G. Notroiris lulrensis ( Baird and Girard).
Very abundant in both streams.
7.
Nolropis topeka Gilbert.
Sand Creek.
Only two specimens were obtained.
8.
Notemigonus chrysoleueus (Mitchill).
Found only in Sand Creek.
One specimen, 9.
Thcnd/ulus zcbrinus Jordan and Gilbert.
This species was found to be common both at Newton and Winfield.
10 Zygonectes notatus (Raf.).
A few specimens only were received — all from Timber Creek.
11.
Labidesthes siccalus Cope.
From Timber Creek only.
Not common.
12.
Lepomis eyanellus Raf.. Abundant in Timber Creek.
1 3.
Lepomis megnlolis (Raf.).
But two specimens were obtained — one from Nrv, ton, the other from Winfield.
14.
Lepomis humilis (Girard).
Abundant in both streams.
15.
JStheostoma cwruleum Storer.
Very abundant in Timber Creek.
None were obtained at Newton.
The following annual reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee : — REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the year ending November 30, 1885, fourteen members and one correspondent have been elected.
Resignations of membership have been received and accepted on the usual conditions, from J. H. Brinton, M.
I)., W. S. Baker, Jos.
C. Wright, R. B. Haines, Jr., and Jos.
G. Richardson, M. D. The deaths of ten members and six correspondents have been announced, and duly recorded in the printed Proceedings.
Thirty-four papers have been presented for publication, as follows: Willis S. Blatchley, 3; Angelo Heilprin, 2; Herman Strecker, 2 ; Alan F. Gentry, 2 ; S. H. Scudder, 2 ; Charles Morris, 2 ; Carl H. Eigenmann and Morton W. Fordice, 2 ; S. E. Meek and Robt.
Newland, 2 ; Walter R. Furness, 1 ; F. Lamson Scribner, 1 ; F. Warrington Eastlake, 1 ; Dr. Benj.
Sharp, 1 ; Leonard Stejneger, 1 ; II .
C. Lewis, 1 ; W. D. Hartman.
1 ; W. B. Scott, 1 ; W. N. Lockington, 1 ; Theo.
D. Rand, 1 ; Morton W. Fordice, 1 ; B. W. Evermann and M. W. Fordice, 1 ; B. AY.
Evermann and S. E. Meek, 1 ; Seth E. Meek and Edw.
A.
Hall, 1 ; Edw.
A.
Hall and J.
Z.
A. McCaughan, 1; Charles Wachsmuth ami F. Springer, 1 ; Ernst P. Bicknell and Fletcher B. Dressier, 1.
Twenty-nine of these have been printed in the Proceedings of the Academy, two have been withdrawn by the authors, and the remaining three have been reported on favorably and will form part of the next volume of the Proceedings.
Sixty -three pages of the volume for 1884, and three hundred and eighty -four pages of that for the current year, have been printed.
The former are illustrated b}' two lithographic plates, and the latter by three.
Forty foreign societies have been added to the list of exchanges during the year, increasing the number of copies of the Proceedings sent abroad in exchange to 375.
The average attendance at the meetings during the past twelve months has been 25.
Verbal communications have been made by thirty-four members.
The greater number of these have been reported by the authors and printed in the Proceedings, constituting an important portion of the annual volume.
At the meeting of the Council held Nov. 23, Mr. Jacob Binder was reappointed Curator of the Wm.
S. Vaux Collections.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw.
J. Nolan, Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
The correspondence of the past year shows a gratifying increase in the number of societies and institutions with which we are now exchanging our publications.
The increase has arisen in many instances at the request of the Academy, and in a certain number at the solicitation of the societies.
The opening of correspondence with societies not previousl}' on our list of exchanges brings with it in time a request from them for our earlier publications, more particularly the Proceedings.
The earlier volumes are in A-er}limited stock, and the Corresponding Secretary suggests the desirabilit} 7 of re-publication at as early a date as the ability of the Academy will admit.
During the year there has been but one correspondent elected, who has been promptly notified of his election.
Responses have been received from nine correspondents, of which number eight were elected in the preceding year.
Three have acknowledged the reception of the diploma.
In a few instances official notice of the death of Correspondents has been received.
Usually such information is obtained from the journals, and becomes part of the minutes of the Academ}'.
Letters and cards to the number of one hundred and twentytwo have been received acknowledging our publications, the large number being partty due to the increase before mentioned, and partly to t lie early distribution of our Proceedings in parts through the mnils.
Letters of transmission numbering forty-seven have been received, the sniallness of the number arising from the decreasing number of correspondents, who from preference or necessity transmit their publications through the Smithsonian Institution.
1885.]
415 Miscellaneous letters, numbering thirteen, have been received, and, when necessary, have been answered.
The additions to the Museum will appear in the Curator's report.
The donors have received pr&mpt acknowledgment through the Curator-in-charge, who has kindly acted for me.
Respectfully submitted, George H. Horn, M. D., Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
During the year ending November 30, 1885, 4100 additions have been made to the library of the Academy.
This is an increase of 678. over the growth of last year, and of 1097 over that of 1883.
The accessions have consisted of 986 volumes, 3047 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 67 maps.
They have been derived from the following sources : — 2158 3 Editois, 793 John H. Redfield, .... 8 I. V. "Williamson Fund, .
.
.
574 Norwegian Government, .
.
3 266 2 Department of the Interior, .
35 Geological Survey of New Geological Survey of Michigan, 33 ■2 U. S. Civil Service Commission, 2 Treasury Department, .
.
.
21 W. P. Collins, Geological Survey of Russia, .
19 Mrs. J. Lawrence Smith, .
.
Geological Survey of India, 16 Joseph Jeanes, 15 Mrs. Emma Rogers, .... Geological Survey of Pennsyl14 Bureau of Ethnology, .
.
.
Geological Survey of Sweden, 14 Royal College of Surgeons.
.
Geological Survey of Canada, 14 Mining Registrars, Victoria, .
Univers'ty of the State of New Navy Department, .... 11 East Indian Government, .
.
Smithsonian Institution, .
.
7 War Department, .... 7 U. S. Fish Commission, Department of Agriculture, t Geo.
W. Tryon, Jr < Raffles Museum, Singapore, .
Geological Survey of New JerGeological Survey of Indiana, sey, 6 Department of Mines, Nova California State Mining Bu5 Indian Museum, ll.
B. M. Government, .
.
.
5 Public Library, Cincinnati, .
Minister of Public Works in Minister of Works, Mexico, .
4 Geological Survey of Minnesota, Geological Survey of Minnesota , 4 Forestry Commission, New 4 York, 1 416 [1885.
These additions have been distributed to the several departments of the library as follows: — Journals , .
3225 Geology, 355 General Natural History, .
.
110 Botany 1<>0 Conchology, 71 Entomology, 37 Physical Science, 23 Anatomy and Physiology, .
.
22 Anthropology 20 Voyages and Travels, ... 19 Ornithology 16 llililiography, 16 .Mineralogy, 13 Education, 11 Ichthyology, 8 Agriculture, 7 Mammalogy, 5 Helminthology, 4 Herpetology, 3 Chemistry, 3 Encyclopedias, 3 General Literature, ... 2 Medicine, 2 Miscellaneous 25 The year's improvement on the usual rate of increase has been mainly due to the generous response made by corresponding societies to our applications for exchanges and deficiencies.
Our efforts to increase and perfect as far as possible the Academy's sets of scientific periodicals have been unremitting, with the gratifying result above noted.
In compliance with our proposition made more than a year ago, many corresponding societies continue to send their publications promptly by mail when issued, instead of as formerly once or twice a year through the Bureau of Exchange.
The publications of the Academy are, of course, sent in return by mail, and, although the cost of postage, amounting during the past year to $117.59, is a matter of considerable importance in the present cramped financial condition of the society, the outlay is believed to be a most judicious one.
Among the more important additions to the special departments of the library acquired during the year have been complete sets, as far as published, of Barrande's Systeme.Silurien de la Boheme, Eteichenbach's Icones FloraGermanicse,and God man and Salvin's Biologia Centrali-Americana.
For these, as for nearly all the other important additions a pa rt from our exchanges, we are indebted to the liberality of Mr. Isaiah Y.Williamson.
The rapid increase of the library lias rendered inadequate the hand catalogues of the special departments in use for many years.
\o matter how much space may be left for additions, it has been found impossible to preserve the unbroken alphabetical arrangement upon which their usefulness depends, while the transcripts from the cards involve an unnecessary expenditure of time ami labor.
A copy of the present card catalogue has therefore been commenced with the efficient assistance of Sig.
Emanuele Fronani, whose services I have been again enabled to avail mvself of during the summer months.
The entries have been made on cards of the best quality manufactured for the purpose by the American Library Bureau.
They are perforated near the middle of the lower, margin and will be held in their places in drawers or trays by rods, thus avoiding the possibility of accidental disarrangement.
The chance of such an accident has made it inadvisable to open for general use the present catalogue, which is complete to date, as the cards are arranged in drawers without guards, and any confusion of the alphabetical arrangement would make it worse than useless.
A shelf catalogue has also been commenced.
This consists of the briefest author and title entries of the books as the}* are at present numbered and placed in the cases.
This will be a necessityof library administration when the card catalogue is alone in use for reference, as without it a great expenditure of time would be necessary to determine what books may be lost or misplaced.
I regret to say that for the same reason as that noted last year — lack of means — no books have been bound since my last report.
The necessity for binding some of our accumulations has, however, become so great that during the coming year a portion of the income of the I. V. Williamson Fund will lie appropriated for the binding of books credited to said fund.
A detailed list of accessions is herewith submitted.
Edw.
J. Nolan, Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators present the following statement from the Curator-in-charge, Prof. Angelo Heilprin, as their report for the year ending November 30 : During the past ) r ear, as in preceding }-ears, much of the work accomplished' in the Museum has been voluntary — this more especially in the departments of Conchology and Botan}', to the special conservators of which the Academy feels itself under lasting obligation.
A similar obligation attaches to the labors of the conservator of the Mineralogical department covered by the Win.
S. Vaux trust, a special report pertaining to which has 28 been submitted to the Council.
In the department of Entomology the partial services of a paid assistant, employed in joint association with the American Entomological Society, have been secured.
In departments other than those here specified the work accomplished has been under the immediate direction of the Curator-in-charge and his assistants who have received material aid in various ways from the several Jessup Fund beneficiaries.
"While it is believed much has been done toward bringing the collections into a relational sequence, and in the identification and labeling of specimens, years of labor still remain before, at the present rate of progress, the entire Museum can be brought into systematic order.
Nor, it appears, will the attainment of this much-desired object be practicable until further and greatlyincreased accommodation for the proper exposition of the steadily increasing collections be furnished.
Reflectively, again, the want of space acts as a material check to the proper development of the collections, which, in the estimation of donors, can now no longer be exhibited to advantage.
The following extract from the Report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology illustrates this condition: u The collections of the Academy in this department are substantially the same as noted in the last report.
It would be easy to increase them were there ample accommodations for their favorable display as objects."
The extensive series of rocks and fossils collected by the Second Geological Survey of the State of Pennsylvania, and contained in upwards of 200 cases, still remain boxed, awaiting the opportunity when an increase of space will permit of their classification and display.
It i> earnestly hoped that the contemplated extension, either in part or in whole, of the present building, which is imperatively demanded by the needs of the institution, may be shortly realized, but toward the attainment of this end assistance, other than that which can be furnished by the Academy alone, is necessary.
The present resources of the Academy are in themselves scarcely sufficient to maintain the institution as it is now situated, and much too limited to enable it to fully meet the requirements of scientific investigators and investigation.
A Curator's fund for the liberal purchase of specimens ma\ lie indicated as a growing absolute necessity, and scarcely less so a fund to be used for the prosecution of zoo-geographical explorations.
The interest derived from a principal fund of some $50,000 to $60,000 would fairly equip annual expeditions to regions that have been thus far little, or not at all, investigated — Florida, the West Indies.
Mexico, Central America, or Labrador, for example — and permit of a large amount of material to be collected for the use of naturalists generally.
The special curatorial work during the past year has been mainly in connection with the departments of Vertebrate and Invertebrate Palaeontology and Osteology.
The entire collections of fossil fishes, reptiles and mammals have been brought together, properly arranged and classified, and constituted into distinct sections or departments.
The specimens of osteology have been largely identified and classified, and are now in a condition to be advantageously used by the student and specialist.
A special collection, intended to illustrate the t^-pe forms of animal life, from the highest to very nearly the lowest, designed to facilitate the work of the zoological student, is rapidly approaching completion, although still requiring a s3 T stem of improved explanatory labeling.
The routine work connected with the curatorial office has been accomplished as heretofore, and requires no special enumeration of details.
The institution has benefitted during the year through the services of five Jessup Fund beneficiaries, covering as many distinct departments.
Very respectfully, Angelo Heilprin, Curator-in-charge.
Jos.
Leidy, Chairman Curators.
REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. VAUX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the William S. Vaux collections respectfully reports : — The collections are in good condition, no change having been made in the arrangement except that which was rendered necessary by the addition of one hundred and four mineral specimens, which have been purchased for the collection out of the funds provided for that purpose.
The additions have been arranged according to the system of classification adopted.
According to the report of 1884, the mineral specimens numbered, ........ 6,412 Additions purchased during the current year, ending Nov. 30, 1885, 104 Total, 6,516 Archaeological specimens (same as noted in report of 1884), 2,940 The Mineralogical collection has a wide reputation, and has been visited by a large number of persons during the year, many of them prominent mineralogists.
Those who had examined the collection previous to the decease of William S. Vaux, have noticed the absence of a number of the most remarkable specimens which it formerly contained and which added so much to its fame.
It is to be regretted that those specimens should have been separated from the others, thereby decreasing its importance as a mineral collection, and as a memorial of the decedent.
The following specimens, numbering 104, have been purchased during the year and placed in the collection at the aggregate cost of $542.95 :— 1884, December 1.
— Four specimens of tourmaline, two gold crystals, one fowlerite, cat's-eye (Ceylon), chalcopyrite, pisolite, zircon (white), jasper (from the Nile), crocidolite, ruby (cut spec), N. J., sapphire (purple), sapphire (white), turquoise, turquoise (Persian), citron (Orange Co.), citron (pale yellow), amethyst.
1885, March 30.
— One specimen of crocidolite, bastnasite, two wulfenites ( New), one barite, wulfenite (red), vanadanite, anatase.
April 20.
— One specimen of hematite, chiastolite.
April 30.
— Tray of concretions.
.May 4.
— One specimen of chalcedony, chalcedony with bubble, hornblende.
May 5.
— One specimen of corundum, moss agate, maconite, analcine on copper, jade, beryl, diaspore on corundum, cassiterite, two tourmalines (green), one lepidolite, pectolite, tourmaline on cookeite.
March 5.
— Three specimens of rutile, one chiastolite.
March 24.
— Nine specimens of small diamonds.
March 25.
— One specimen of lepodolite, hornblende, staurobte.
May 27.
— Two specimens of descloisite, one vanadanite, diamond on matrix, quartz (mod.
crystal), calamine, smithsonite, sraithsonite (geode).
September 10.
— One specimen of quartz on hematite, azurite, colemanite, leidyite.
September 27.
— Two specimens of obsidian or pearl spar, one fluorite (polished), opal.
October 13.
— One specimen of apophyllite, polydelphite, dysluite.
October 13.
— Two specimens of calamine, one franklinite, zincite, willemite, zincite, two rhodenites.
November 9.
— Two specimens of topaz, one beryl (green cut), beryl (yellow cut), essonite.
Brush's Blowpipe A nalysis and Dana's Text-book of Mineralogy were purchased for the use of the Curator.
Respectfully submitted, Jacob Binder, Curator.
REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
The number of meetings held during the year ending December 1, 1885, was sixteen.
The average attendance was ten.
The following members were elected : Dr. Horace F. Jayne, Dr. J. Bernard Brinton.
The following members resigned : Dr. Persifor Frazer, W. T. Seal, Dr. J. D. Thomas, Dr. J. G. Richardson.
The following were some of the more important communications brought before the Section : — December 15, 1884.
By Dr. Benjamin Sharp, upon " Homologies of the Vertebrate Lens.'"
January 5, 1885.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp, upon " The Formation of Teeth in Ancyllus."
January 5.
By Miss Fielde, upon '* The Process of Regeneration of Parts of the Earth Worm ; " by Dr. Horace F. Jayne, upon "A Process of Staining."
January li).
Lecture by Ur.
G. A. Kex, " Illustrations of the Genus Stilbum."
February 16.
Lecture by Dr. W. X. Sudduth, upon ''The Comma Bacillus;" exhibition by Messrs. Queen & Co. of Bacteria.
March 16.
By Mr. Harold Wingate, upon " The Lens of the Triton."
April 6.
By J. Bernard Brinton, upon " Opaque Mounting."
April 20.
By Dr. J.
Brewer Hall, upon "A Species of Ochlea."
Ma\ 4.
15 y Dr. Benjamin Sharp, upon "The Eyes of the Pecten."
A microscopical exhibition was given to the public upon the evening of Thursday, December 3.
It was attended by a large and appreciative company.
Very respectfully, Robt.
J. Hess, M. D., Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that during the past year the Academy has.
continued to publish for the Section such papers on Conchology as have been presented.
No new members or correspondents have been elected, neither has there been any change in the by-laws.
Mr. Tryon, Conservator, reports as follows : — " During the year there has been a marked increase over any recent one in the additions to our Museum.
Sixty donations and purchases have been received from forty-four persons.
The number of trays and labels added to the collection is 1484, of specimens 7237'The Conchological Museum now contains 43,932 trays and written tablets, and 158,352 specimens. "
A detailed list of the accessions for 1885 is hereunto subjoined.
(See Additions to Museum.)
"A circular was issued early in the year soliciting collections of shells from Localities not represented in our Museum.
Numerous offers were received in response, and from them a number of selections have been made which have greatly enriched our geographical and varietal suites.
The Singapore series (referred to in the last annual report) has been completed by Mr. Archer; Messrs. Bailey, Bed wall, Dupuy and Marie have added suites from Australia and New Caledonia ; interesting collections from England, France and Sicily have been received from a number of collectors ; our Florida series has been greatly enlarged by an important invoice from Mr. Henry Hemphill, who has spent two winters in dredging on the west coast of that State, and from other sources ; many other American suites and specimens have been obtained, including particularly, a very fine suite of the shells of Philadelphia, presented by Mr. John Ford, and exhibited in our collection illustrative of Pennsylvania and New Jersey natural history. "
The additions for the year have all been labelled and mounted, mainly by Mr. Frank Stout, who has very satisfactorily performed this duty. "
The work of redetermining and arranging the collection, which goes on in connection with the publication of monographs of the genera in the ' Manual of Conchology,' progresses.
The Cassididae, Doliidae, Ovulidae, Strombidae, Naticidae, Vitrinidae, Limacidae, and a portion of the Zonitidae, have thus been carefully studied by your conservator, and the Cypraeidae by Mr. S. R Roberts. "
In the last report attention was called to the overcrowding of the shell cases, as seriously interfering with the exhibition of all the species to the public.
Having recently secured the assistance of Mr. Wm.
B. Marshall, an enthusiastic student of conchology, your conservator has been able to commence the realization of plans, long since matured, b} r which this overcrowding will be remedied.
All duplicates will be removed from the cases to the drawers under them, where they will be rearranged to constitute what may be called the Geographical Collection, illustrative of the distribution and variation of the several species.
Part of the space thus gained in the cases will be occupied by colored figures (from the l Manual of Conchology ') of all the species of which we have no specimens.
These figures, mounted and labeled like the specimens, will, together with the latter, represent all the species and varieties of shells and mollusks known to Bcience, so far as they have been figured.
In addition to these, a third, to be known as the Synoptical Collection, and introductory to thr others, is intended to contain representatives of all tin' recent, and the most important of the fossil genera and subgenera, with printed labels, including the name, description, distribution, synonymy, etc.
Figures of the animals, lingual dentition and other details are being added to make this series more complete.
•• Enough lias been accomplished to give a fair idea of the practical working of these plans; to complete them will require the Labor of perhaps ten or twelve years.
"To enumerate them in order, the Conchological Cabinet of the Academy will consist of five distinct series or collections, so arranged as to facilitate comparison from one to another, yet each fully equipped for separate study, as follows : 1, Synoptical Collection, contained in table cases; 2, Alcoholic Collection, in wall cases (recently rearranged by Mr. Marshall); 3, Systematic Collection, in table cases; and in the drawers under these, 4, Geographical Collection, and 5, the Swift Collection, given to the Academy upon condition that it be kept intact."
The officers of the section are : — Director, .
.
.
W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. Vice-Director , .
.
John Ford.
Recorder, S. Raymond Roberts.
Secretary, .
.
.
John H. Redfield.
Treasurer , .
.
Win.
L. Mactier.
Conservator, .
.
George W. Try on, Jr.
Librarian, .
.
.
Edward J. Nolan, M. D. Respectfully submitted, by S. Raymond Roberts, Recorder, REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Recorder of the Entomological Section respectfully reports thai nine meetings of the Section have been held during the |>:ist year.
An increased interest in the proceedings of the tion has been shown by a larger average attendance at the meetii One member has been elected.
A synopsis of the Section meetings is published by the American Entomological Society, in connection with its Transactions.
That society still continues the publication of the entomological articles presented to it, and has printed thirteen of the same during the past j r ear, amounting to 300 pages, with 9 plates.
The papers published and their authors are as follows : — Short studies of North American Coleoptera, by John L. LeConte, M.D.
(posthumous).
A study of some genera of Elateridae, by George H. Horn, M.D.
On the North American Asilidae, Part II, by S. W. Williston, M.D.
On the systematic position of some North American Lepidoptera, by John B. Smith.
A study of the species of Cryptobium of North America, by George H. Horn, M. D. Studies among the Meloidae, by the same.
Descriptions of new North American Scarabaeidae, by the same.
Contributions to the Coleopterology of the United States, by the same.
On the species of Canthon and Phanseus of the United States, with notes on other genera, by Frederick Blanchard.
Descriptions of some new Cerambycidaa, with notes, by George H. Horn, M.D.
Synopsis of the Throscidae of the United States, by George H. Horn, M. D. A monograph of North American Chrysididae, by S. Frank Aaron.
On the earlier stages of the Odonata, b}* H. A. Hagen, M. D. In addition, shorter papers on Cynipidse, by W. H. Ashmead, have appeared in the Proceedings.
The collections in the cabinets have received more attention during the past year than for some time previous.
A great part has been thoroughly arranged and labeled where needed.
Also a thorough process of disinfection has gone on, and the cases cleared of all troublesome matter.
That this work might be better done, the American Entomological Society employed a 426 [1885. custodian during nine months of the year, at a small compensation, to attend to the same.
A number of accessions to the cabinets have been received this year, from Messrs. R. H. Stretch, E. M. Aaron, S. F. Aaron, W. H. Ashmead, J. S. Johnson, and James Behrens.
Many of these additions are rare, or new to the collections.
The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows : — Director, .... George H. Horn, M. D. Vice-Director, .
.
.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D. Recorder, .
.
.
J. H. Ridings.
Treasurer, .
.
.
E. T. Cresson.
Conservator, .
.
.
Henry Skinner, M. D. Respectfully submitted, J. H. Ridings, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The Vice-IMrector of the Botanical Section of the Academy respectfully reports that the section continues its steady progress as in former years.
1687 species of phanerogamic plants and vascular cryptogams were added to the Herbarium last 3'ear, of which 395 were new to our collection; 395 species of lichens and fungi were also received.
A complete count of the species in the Herbarium has been made and found to foot up 25,413, of which all but about 3075 are named and in place.
These are exclusive of Fungi and Lichens.
The details of the donations will be found in the Conservator's report attached.
The section is wholly free from debt, and has a balance of one hundred and seventy-six dollars in its treasury.
We have lost the services of our late Recorder, Mr. F. L. Scribner, who has removed t" Washington, to a wider sphere of usefulness.
Meetings ha \ e been held at every stated period during the year, and valuable contributions ty the audience as could be expected from the nature of the topics discussed.
The collections of the Academy in this department are substantially the same as noted in the last report.
It would be easy to increase them, were there ample accommodations for the favorable display of objects.
Respectfully, D. G. Brinton, M. D., Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology.
SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM.
C. HENSZBY, TREASURER, For the Year ending Nov. 30, 1885.
Dr. To Initiation Fees S 100 00 " Contributions | semi-annual contributions i 1635 76 " Life Memberships 400 00 '' Admissions to Museum 264 59 " Sale of Guide to Museum 8 00 ' ' Publication Committee 525 55 " Fees, Lectures on ''alseontology 68 00 " " " "Mineralogy 83 00 " " " "Ethnology 48 50 " " " "Zoology 6 00 " Duplicate Books ' 2 00 " Biological Section I for gas) 50 00 " Miscellaneous 97 24 " Correction of Proof (B.
Sharp 3 60 " Interest from Mortgage investment,.!
oshua T. Jeanes' Legacy 1000 00 " Wilson Fund.
Toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 " Publication Fund.
Interest on Investments 355 00 " Barton Fund. "
" " 240 00 " Life Membership Fund. "
" " 165 00 " Maintenance Fund. "
•' " 155 00 " Eckfeldt Fund. "
" " 125 00 " Stott Legacy Fund. "
" " 100 00 " Maintenance Fd.
Transf.
by resolution of Academy 1013 14 " Life Membership Fd. "
" " " " 1500 00 " Book Fund. "
" " " " 3 13 " Instruc.
and Lee.
Fd. "
" " " " 86 65 " Interest 16 25 $8351 41 Cb.
By Balance overdrawn per last account ... S1238 44 " Salaries, Janitors, etc 3236 62 " Freight 43 50 " Repairs 85 67 " Insurance 55 00 " Printing and Binding Proceedings, etc 1055 36 " Plates and Engravings 71 75 " Printing and Stationery 92 40 " Trays and Cards 71 47 " Postage 195 26 " Mounting Swan .
.
: 5 00 " Coal 55 00 "Gas 88 77 " Glass Jars and Vials 77 97 " Subscription to U. S. Publication 2 00 " Water Rents, 1885 33 35 " Miscellaneous 452 20 " Dr. D. G. Brinton.
Fees from Lectures 48 50 " Prof. H. C. Lewis. "
" " 83 00 " Prof. A. Heilprin.
•' " " 68 00 " Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership Fund 400 00 $7459 26 Balance, General Account , 892 15 THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND.
By Balance per last statement $ 277 28 For Books 220 05 Transferred to General Account, toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 $797 33 Income from Investments 525 00 Halance overdrawn 1272 33 LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND.
(For Maintenance.)
By Investment, Bond and Mortgage $1500 00 Transferred to General Account 165 00 $1665 00 To Balance per last statement S1000 00 Interest on Investments 165 00 Life Memberships transferred to this account 400 00 1565 00 Balance overdrawn ^100 00 BARTON FUND.
(For Printing and Illustrating Proceedings.)
Interest on Investments 240 00 Transferred to General Account 240 00 JESSUP FUND.
(For Assistance of Students.)
Balance per last statement 620 01 Interest on Investments 560 00 1180 01 Disbursed 946 00 Balance S234 01 MAINTENANCE FUND.
Balance per last statement 1013 14 Interest on Investments 155 00 $1168 14 By Investment, Lehigh Valley Coal Co.'s Bonds K1013 14 Transferred to General Account 155 00 1168 14 PUBLICATION FUND.
[ncome from Investments $ 355 00 Life Subscriptions to Proceedings and Journal .... 225 00 $580 00 Transferred to General Account 355 00 Balance for Investment $225 00 ECKFELDT FUND.
Income from Investments $ 125 Oil Trail-In t. ,1 to I General Account 125 00 I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND.
Balance per last Statement $2094 65 Rents Collected 994 90 Ground-rents Collected 872 02 Cash received.
Principal of yearly ground-rent for 52/^ Dollars.
E. S. Mount Holly Street, 30 feet north of Dickinson St $875 00 Seventy days' Interest at 5 per.
cent 9 63 Notary's Acknowledgment 1 00 885 63 $4847 20 For Books $2105 56 Taxes and Water-rents 195 43 Repairs to Properties 378 92 Collecting 93 34 Miscellaneous 57 45 2830 70 Balance $2016 50 $1750.00 of the above balance to be re-invested.
INSTRUCTION AND LECTURE FUND.
Balance per last Statement $ 142 70 Miscellaneous $56 05 Transferred to General Account 86 65 142 70 MUSEUM FUND.
Balance per last Statement $ 5 00 Income from Investments 50 00 $55 00 VAUX FUND.
Balance per last Statement $ 477 30 Income from Investments 600 00 $1077 30 Minerals $550 63 Miscellaneous 14 59 565 22 Balance on hand $512 08 Mrs. STOTT FUND.
Income from Investment $ 100 00 Transferred to General Account 100 00 BOOK ACCOUNT.
(Jos.
Jeanes' Donation.)
Balance per last Statement $ 37 13 Books $34 00 Transferred to General Account 3 13 37 13 29 HENRY N. JOHNSON FUND.
By Cash paid Collateral Inheritance Tax $1089 70 " " Refunded Penna.
Co. for Ins.
on Lives, etc., overpaid in settlement 35 50 " " Expenses Attending the Settlement of Est.
H. N. Johnson, dec'd 12 03 " " trading side-walk in Upsal St 167 37 " " Repairs to Properties 518 25 " « Collecting 37 69 $1860 54 To Cash received Penna.
Co. for Ins.
on Lives, etc., in Settlement of Est.
II.
N. Johnson, dec'd $859 93 " Rents Collected 618 80 " < ; round-rents Collected 94 50 " Mortgage Interest and Tax collected 40 50 " Six months' Int.
on $1000 Lehigh Valley's Bonds.
... 25 00 1638 73 Balance due by Academy $221 81 The election of Officers, Councillors, and Members of the Finance Committee, to serve during 1886, was held, with the following result : — President, Vice-Presidents, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian, Curators, Councillors to serve three years, .... Finance Committee, Joseph Leidy, M. D., Thomas Meehan, Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D. Edward J. Nolan, M. D. George H. Horn, M. D. Wm.
C. He'nszey.
Edward J. Nolan, M. D. Joseph Leidy, M. D., Jacob Binder, W. S. W. Ruschenberger,M.
D., Angelo Heilprin.
Thos.
A. Robinson, Edw.
Potts, Isaac C. Martindale, Theo.
D. Rand.
Isaac C Martindale, Aubrey H. Smith, S. Fisher Corlies, George Y. Shoemaker, Wm.
W. Jefferis.

