CATALOGUE OF THE OWLS IN THE COLLECTION OF THE BY WITHER STONE.
In the following list I have not followed Mr. Sharpe's Catalogue of Birds in the arrangement of the genera and species as was done in the Catalogue of the Muscicapidre (Proc.
Phila.
Acad.
1889, p. 146), since his work seems to differ in this respect from most of the recent works on the subject.
But, having adopted the names and arrangement of the North American species, as given in the A.
0.
U.
Check List, I have endeavored to interpolate the foreign genera and species in their proper places, and to make the nomenclature conform, as nearly as possible, to the code of the American Ornithologists' Union.
The total number of species and subspecies of Striges seems to be somewhat over 200 and of these the Academy collection contains 113, represented by 525 specimens including the types of 14 species.
The principal individual collections to which the specimens belong are as follows : Massena collection, covering the whole world.
Gould collection, Australia.
Boys collection, India.
DuChaillu collection.
West Africa.
Prince Momfanoi collection, Siam.
Pease and D'Oca collections, Mexico.
Townsend collection.
Western N. A. and Sandwich Islands.
Cassin and Krider collections, mainly N. A. Abbott collection of skins, North America and West Indies.
The majority of these were contained in the private collection of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson and w'ere presented by him to the Academy.
After each species are given the localities from which the Academy has specimens.
Family STRIGIDJE.
Strix aluco Linn.
(=/S'.
Jiammea of authors.)
Specimens from France and Liberia.
Strix aluco javanica.
(Gm.)
India, specimens collected by Capt.
Boys.
Strix aluco delicatula.
(Gould.)
Types, from Australia, Gould's collection.
Strix pratincola Bonap.
1 Specimens from Penn., N. J., N. Y., Dist.
of Col. and Cal. "
Strix pratincola perlata.
(Lieht.)
i One from Brazil and two from Nicaragua, probably the latter | belong to the race guatemalae Ridgw., but I cannot distinguish them I from the South American bird.
Strix pratincola furcata.
(Temm.)
i Several specimens from Cuba.
i Strix novae-hollandiae Steph.
A series from N. and S. Australia and Is .
S. Wales, Gould collection.
Strix castanops Gould.
Types of the species from Tasmania, Gould's collection.
Strix tenebricosa Gould.
Type of the species from Is^ew South AVales ; also one from the j Massena collection. '
Strix Candida Tick.
One specimen from India.
Strix capensis Smith.
; Three specimens from Cape of Good Hope.
Rhodilus radius.
(Horsf.)
One specimen from India, Capt.
Boys' collection.
I Family BUBONIDAE.
| Asio otus.
(Linn.)
A series froni Europe, Rivoli collection.
Asio wilsonianus.
(Less.)
A series from Pennsylvania and Ncav Jersey.
Asio madagascariensis.
(Smith.)
i One male, Madagascar.
Asio capensis.
(Smith.)
' Specimens from South Africa and ]\Iorocco.
j Asio accipitrinus.
(Pall.)
i Specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, California ; South America, India and France ; also one specimen from the Sandwich Islands {A. sandvicensis Blyth.)
collected by J. K. Townsend, M. D. !
PULSATRIX PERSriCILLATA.
(Lath.)
Young in various stages of plumage also adult male and female, from Brazil, Nicaragua and Jalapa, Mexico.
There is also a specimen from Peru which seems to differ from any described phase of this species.
It is uniform chocolate brown above, lighter than perspicillata and showing a tendency to darker coloration on the head, the breast and throat are chocolate uniform with the back, the white being confined to a spot on the chin, the rest of the under surface is fulvous, the white spots on the wing coverts are much less marked than in perspicillata and are suffused with fulvous.
Mr. Ridgway, whom I consulted about this specimen, writes me that there is in the National Museum " one specimen with no white whatever on the chin, while a large majority have no trace of white or light colored markings on the Aving coverts."
I think it probable, therefore, considering the variation in this group, that this is merely a phase of perspicillata rather than a distinct species or race.
CiCCABA HULULA.
(Daud.)
Several specimens from South America.
Cacciba nigrolineata.
(Scl.)
Jalapa, Mexico, from the D'Oca collection.
CiCCABA VIRGATA.
(CaSS.)
Specimens from Mexico, Cayenne, Bogota and Trinidad, Some of the South American specimens are in all jirobability Mr. Cassin's types, but there are no data to show wdiich they are.
CiCCABA SUPERCILANS.
(Peltz.)
Brazil.
CiCCABA ALBOGULARIS.
(CaSS.)
Several specimens from South America including the types of the species.
CiCCABA HYLOPHILA.
(Temm.)
Columbia and Brazil.
[The species of the old genus Syrnium form a very perplexing group when a subdivision is attempted.
The northern genus Scotiaptex is easily separable ; then there are the typical Syrniums from the more northern portions of both continents, the species varying more and more from the type as they go south.
I have followed Sclater and Salvin in grouping the South American naked-toed species together in the genus Ciccaba.
The African forms seem to vary in much the same way, but for convenience I have left them as well as all the other old world species in the genus Syrnium.
The synonymy of the generic names which have been applied to these species seems to be considerably involved.]
Syrnium nuchale Sharpe.
Rivers Moonda and Ogobai, West Africa collected by DuChaillu.
Syrnium woodfordi.
(Smith).
Cape of Good Hope.
Syrnium leptogrammicum.
(Temm.)
Sumatra.
Syrnium newarense.
(Hodgs.)
Malabar.
Syrnium ocellatum Less.
India.
Syrnium sinense.
(Lath.)
Java.
Syrnium nivicolum Hodgs.
India.
Syrnium stridulum.
(Linn.)
(^S.
alaco, authors.)
Specimens from France, Sweden and Algeria.
Syrnium nebulosum.
(Forst.)
Specimens from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Syrnium uralense.
(Fall.)
Sweeden, from Kinberg's collection.
Syrnium uralense fuscescens.
(Tem.
and Schl.)
One specimen from Japan.
SCOTIAPTEX cinereum.
(Gm.)
One specimen collected by J. K. Townsend in the Rocky Mts.
ScoTiAPTEX cinereum lapponicum.
(Retz.)
One typical specimen from Russia, and another marked " Northern Europe " which is darker with considerable rufous on the hind neck.
Nyctala tengmalmi.
(Gm.)
France.
Nyctala tengmalmi richardsoni.
(Bonap.)
" Fort Resolution, HudsonBay Terr.," presented by the Smithsonian Institution.
Nyctala acadica.
(Gmel.)
Pennsylvania and other parts of the United States.
Also one from Cassin's collection marked Bogota.
Nyctalatinus harrisi (Cass.)
One specimen which is in all probability the type though it bears no label Avhatever.
Megascops scops.
(Linn.)
Specimens from France, Senegal and one from the Himalayas which seems to be identical with European specimens, though it should perhaps be referred to the race pennahis.
Megascops scops capensis (Smith.)
A distinct dark race represented by several specimens from Cape of Good Hope.
Megascops scops hendersonii.
(Cass.)
Types.
A male and female marked " Off Novo Redonda, came on board."
These birds are smaller than any other specimens of Megascops in the collection and seem to constitute a distinct race.
They are very bright in their markings and are much lighter on the back than South African specimens.
Megascops sunia.
(Hodgs.)
India, Megascops elegans.
(Cassin.)
One specimen from Japan, type of the species.
I do not think this is the bird described by Sharpe under Scops elegans from China, as his description does not suit the type before me.
M. elegans seems to me to be more nearly related to M. menadensis from the Celebes.
(See also Stejneger, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
1886, p.
640.)
Megascops magicus.
(Miill.)
A specimen from Siam is doubtfully referred to this species.
Megascops magicus menadensis.
(Q.
& G.) Celebes.
Megascops magicus leucospilus.
(Gray.)
India.
Megascops lettia.
(Hodgs.)
Specimens collected in India by Capt.
Boys and compared with the type by Dr. T. B. AVilson.
July 1851.
Megascops lempiji.
(Horsf.)
Specimens from Java, Borneo and India.
Megascops rufescens.
(Horsf.)
Specimens from Sumatra.
Megascops sagittatus.
(Cassin.)
Three specimens from Malacca, types of the species.
Megascops leucotis.
(Temm.)
Four specimens from Fazogloa.
This is a very distinct species and reminds one of an Indian Bubo in miniature.
Megascops asio.
(Linn.)
Series from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Megascops asio maccallii.
(Cass.)
One immature bird from New Mexico.
Megascops asio semitorques.
(Schl.)
Specimens from Japan.
Megascops brasilianus.
(Gm.)
Series from Cayenne, Brazil, etc.
Megascops brasilianus Guatemala e (Sharpe) ?
Several specimens doubtfully referred to this race.
Megascops brasilianus ustus.
(Scl.)
Specimens from Peru and Columbia.
Megascops brasilianus watsoni.
(Cassin.)
Type of the species from Orinoco.
Megascops barbarus.
(Scl.
and Salv.)
One darkly colored specimen from Mexico.
There is another INfegascops (No.
2442) from Panama, reddishbrown above with very fine transverse markings, and marked below with rufous cross bars, very fine and very close together so as to appear nearly uniform on the breast.
This specimen does not agree well with any described phase, but is perhaps related to barbarus.
Megascops cooperi.
(Ridgway.)
One specimen agreeing well with Mr. Ridgway's description and easily distiuguished by the bristly toes from any member of the brasilianus group to which it approaches in coloration.
LoPHOSTRix CRiSTATA.
(Daud.)
Four specimens from Cayenne representing both phases of plumage.
SCOTOPELIA PELI.
Bp.
One immature specimen from W. Africa collected by DuChaillu.
Ketupa ceylonensis.
(Gm.)
Specimens from Bengal and two from Capt.
Boys' collection.
Ketupa javensis Less.
Specimens from Java, Sumatra and India.
Bubo bubo.
(Linn.)
France and Switzerland.
Bubo virginianus.
(Gm.)
Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Bubo virginianus subarcticus.
(Hoy.)
Specimens from Iowa and California and also the type taken in Wisconsin, presented by Dr. Hoy.
Bubo virginianus magellanicus.
(Gm.)
Specimens from South America.
Bubo mexicanus.
(Gm.)
Specimens from Cayenne.
Bubo bencjalensis.
(Frank.)
India.
Collected by Capt.
Boys.
Bubo ascalaphus Sav.
Morocco and Egypt.
Bubo capensis Smith.
Cape of Good Hope.
Bubo maculosus.
(Vieill.)
Cape of Good Hope.
Bubo cinerascens Guer.
Fazogloa.
Bubo lacteus.
(Temm.)
Senegal, W. Africa.
Bubo coromandus.
(Lath.)
India, collected by Capt.
Boys.
Bubo nipalensis Hodgs.
Himalayas.
Bubo orientalis.
(Horsf ) India and Java.
Bubo leucostictus Hartl.
Moonda river, W. Africa, collected by DuChaillu.
Nyctea nyctea.
(Linn.)
Specimens from New Jersey, and some from northern Europe.
Surnia ulula.
(Linn.)
Europe.
SuRNiA ULULA CAPAROCH.
(Miill.)
Nova Scotia.
Speotyto cunicularia.
(Molina.)
Bolivia and Peru.
Speotyto cunicularia hypogaea.
(Bonap.)
Specimens from California, Oregon and New Mexico.
Speotyto cunicularia floridana.
Ridgw.
One specimen from the west coast of Florida.
Gymnasio nudipes.
(Daud.)
Two specimens from St. Thomas, W. I. Gymnasio lawrencil (Scl.
& Salv.)
Cuba.
Athene noctua.
(Scop.)
France and Algeria.
Athene brama.
(Temm.)
India.
NiNOX LUGUBRis.
(Tick.)
India.
NiNOX scuTELLATA.
(Raffl.)
Sumatra.
NiNOX BOOBOOK.
(Lath.)
S. and W. Australia, from Gould's collection.
NiNOX novae-zealandiae.
(Gm.)
New Zealand.
NiNOx maculata.
(Vig.
& Horsf.)
Tasmania.
NiNox PUNCTULATA.
(Q.
& G.) Celebes.
NiNOX CONNIVENS.
(Lath.)
New South Wales.
Gould's collection.
NiNOX STRENUA.
(Gould.)
Types of the species from New South Wales, Gould's collection.
Also the type of Athene rufa Gould, which seems to be a phase of this species, from Pt.
Essingtou, North Australia.
Glaucidium passerinum.
(Linn.)
France.
Glaucidium gnoma.
Wagl.
California and Washington Territory.
Glaucidium pumilum.
(Temm.)
Two specimens, one from S. America and the other with no locality.
These are the specimens described by Ridgway, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
1873, pp.
97 and 98.
Glaucidium siju D'Orb.
Cuba.
Glaucidium nanum.
(King.)
South America.
Glaucidium jardinii.
(Bonap.)
New Grenada and Brazil including the types of G. langshergii Ridgw.
(Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
1873, p. 98).
Dr. Wilson's name is written " lanshergii " on the stands.
Glaucidium phalaenoides.
(Daud.)
A large series of specimens in both phases of plumage, varying in both size and coloration.
Glaucidium bkodiei.
(Burton.)
India.
Glaucidium perlatum.
(Vieill.)
Senegal and South Africa.
Glaucidium radiatum.
(Tick.)
Himalayas.
Glaucidium castanopterum.
(Horsf.)
Java.
Glaucidium cuculoides.
(Gould.)
India.
MiCROPALLAS WHITNEYI.
(CoOpcr.)
One specimen from Arizona, presented by the Philadelphia Zoological Society.
GEOLOGY OF ARTESIAN WELLS AT ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.
BY LEWIS WOOLMAN.
During the past three years there have been drilled for the Consumers' Water Company at Atlantic City, IST.
J., four artesian wells.
These are of various depths as will be more particularly noticed further on.
As the work progressed I have been studying it from a geological stand-point, believing that a careful record of the succession of strata penetrated and of their included fossils would, in connection with information yet to be obtained by developments at other localities, lead to valuable results.
Among these would be the construction of a true vertical section across the State from Camden to the sea, showing the amount of dip and the thickness of each of the various Quaternary (?
), Miocene, Eocene and Cretaceous beds including also the determination of the number and location of the different water-bearing strata.
"Whatever results have been arrived at, their attainment is due primarily to the co-operation of three members of the company, Dr. T. K. Reed, Jos.
H. Borton and F. Helmsley, who have afforded every facility for geological investigation.
Credit is also due J. H. Moore, contractor for the first three wells and P. H. & J. Conlin, contractors for the fourth well, for much information and for the care they and their assistants have taken to preserve specimens every few feet.
These they placed in small dairy salt sacks with Dennison's shipping tags attached, on which they marked the depth and description of material.
In scientific circles thanks are due Prof A. Heilprin for valuable assistance in paleontology and geology, to C. Henry Kain and his co-laborer, E. A. Schultze, for authoritative identification of diatoms, to Dr. D. B.
Ward of Poughkeepsie, N. Y., for photo-micrographs of the same which have aided the author in their study, and to C. L. Peticolas of Richmond, Va., for cleaning and separating the diatoms from numerous specimens of earths.
Well No.
1 is situated at the S. E. corner of ]\Iichigan and Arctic Avenues ; the other wells are grouped within a radius of 100 feet of each other upon a knoll within the meadows about one-fourth of a mile nearly N. W. of No.
1.
Well No.
1 was sunk to a depth approximating 1150 feet.
At about 1100 feet a plentiful supply of fresh water flowed to five feet or more above the surface.
This water since 1887 has been furnished through street mains to many hotels and cottages.
Well No.
2 was a))audoned at 325 feet, on account of an accident.
Well No.
3 was then sunk to 1400 feet, or lower, but without success in obtaining water.
Drilling was suspended at this point and the pipe is now being withdrawn in the hope of developing some of the water strata that were undoubtedly passed through probably in a partially closed condition.^ These three Avells were bored by the process usually used in rock countries by means of the drill and sand pump.
The succeeding well.
No.
4, was put down by the hydraulic method in Avhich the drill has a hollow body with perforations near the cutting end.
To this drill, as the work proceeds, are added section after section of tubing.
Down this tubing water is forced by pressure through the perforations above noted and rising between the tube and the casing flows out at the top, continually carrying mixed Avith it the loosened material from the bottom in finely divided form.
This process is much used along the New Jersey coast and is well adapted to soft strata and where no solid rock occurs.
In well No.
4, water flowing above the surface was found at 328, 406, 429 and 554 feet.
By pumping, the 328 feet level yielded about 50 gallons a minute, but the 406 feet, only about five gallons.
The water from each of these, although fresh at first, proved salty on being pumped and these strata were therefore cased off.
Owing to the toughness of the clay, the pipe — a ten-inch one — could not be driven further than 424 feet ; the boring was therefore continued without casing, the walls remaining intact W'ithout such support until a total depth of 578 feet was reached.
In sand at 429 to 430 feet, a very small flow of fresh water Avas obtained, but at 554 to 560 feet a gray water-bearing sand was pierced, from which, I am informed, there flowed 50 gallons a minute.
By pumping, this yield was at once increased to 150 gallons, and afterwards to 200 gallons.
This water has now been pumped several weeks.
It proves pure and fresh and is pleasant to the taste.
From well No.
3, there were preserved 184 specimens of earth from as many different depths.
These were comj^ared with a carefully kept record of strata furnished by J. H. Moore and the upper ' As this article was going to press information was received that a waterbearing stratum was opened at about 720 feet that flowed 10 gallons a minute.
part collated with 37 additional specimens from well No.
4.
From this the accompanying section has been constructed, which it is believed is an accurate representation and grouping of strata.
Upon the left is a minute description of the various changes in material copied verbatim from a record furnished by J. H. Moore, with the insertion, however, in brackets of the depths of the various water-bearing hoi'izons, as learned from the development of the other wells.
Upon the right the section is subdivided so as to show the grouping of the strata into larger beds having certain characteristic features.
For convenience, each of these is marked by a letter, and a corresponding letter heads each paragraph relating to the same in the succeeding detailed description.
A — Underneath 30 feet of ordinary beach sand there exists 15 feet of blue nuid.
This was probably the bottom of an old thoroughfare or channel.
It contains the usual shells of the coast, the oyster, the clam and the scallop, and also one single minute organism belonging to the foraminifera and identical with the only living species — a No7iionina^no\\ found on the beach.
B — Beneath this is a series of sands and gravels 220 feet in thickness, varying from whitish to yellow in color and alternating from very fine sand to very coarse gravel.
At 84 to 116 feet and again at 228 feet, these gravels exhibit pebbles containing fossils that show them to be of Devonian and Silurian origin.
Similar fossiliferous pebbles are plentiful at Straffordville north of Tuckerton, and also in the cuts of both the Camden and Atlantic and the Reading Railroads, at about 14 miles from Atlantic City.
All of these localities are about 60 feet above tide.
Certain yellow gravels and sands at 135 to 160 feet, may be seen apparently matched on a hill N. E. of EUwood, 120 feet above tide and 21 miles distant.
Specimens from the hill and the well are quite undistinguishable.
These data indicate a dip of from 12 to not over 15 feet per mile for these gravels.
The gravels and underlying white sands of this section are the same respectively as are referred to in the New^ Jersey survey reports as the yellowgravels and the glass sands.
The former have been named by Prof. H. Carvill Lewis, the Glassboro gravels.
They are spread over the Atlantic seaboard in this and other States southward and are regarded by many geologists as Quaternary in age.
This section terminates in the well at about 265 feet.
\ C — The dci)th last named marks the passage from these nearly horizontal Quaternary strata to the commencement of a long series of INIiocene beds with slightly increased dip.
The uppermost bed of this series consists of 118 feet of reddish-brown sand ranging from light to dark in color.
It contains a dark clay seam at 289 feet and another at 320 feet described as "green clay;" each of these is about 5 feet thick; from beneath the latter the first flow already noted in well No.
4, was obtained.
This red sand bed contains wood throughout that was continually brought up by the hydraulic process in very small fragments, otherwise it is nonfossiliferous.
D — Below these red sands, or from 383 to 658 feet, occurs the most remarkable development of diatomaceous clays yet discovered in the Avorld, being 275 ^ feet in vertical extent.
Excepting a few pure sand beds, not over from one to ten feet in thickness, this entire horizon is more "or less made up of this low order of microscopic plants.
As might be expected the diatoms of this deposit are marine forms.
Associated with the diatoms are also a number of sponge spicules, many of them of the pin-head forms that are characteristic of salt water sponges.
At 540 feet were fouufl a few clam and other shells in fragments, but so worn and broken as to be unidentifiable si^ecifically.
One, however, was either a Modiola or a Mytilus.
This deposit is already especially interesting to microscoj)ists, and will become increasingly so until it will attain world-wide publicity.
On this account a minute description is here inserted : — 383 to 390, Clay ; 1 t.i • joni o 'i 1 -^ ^ich in diatoms exce])t the sand 390 to 391, band, pure white ; )■ '■ 391 to 406, Clay.
j '^^'^^■' 406 to 410, Gray sand — No diatoms.
410 to 429, Clay — Moderately rich in diatoms.
429 to 430, Dark sand — No diatoms.
430 to 480, Clay — Diatoms associated with about 5 forms of foraminifera and much comminuted shell.
480 to 510, Sandy clay — Moderately diatomaceous.
510 to 535, Clay — Very rich in diatoms.
1 Since the preparation of the section, diatoms have been noticed, though very sparingly, in the next lower 20 feet.
This would increase the total thickness of the diatom beds to nearly 300 feet.
535 to 554, Sandy clay — Moderately rich in diatoms.
554 to 560, Clear gray sand — No diatoms.
AVater bearing stratum.
Kan 4.
K^K Altei'nations of pure clays) ^r i r ^ obO to 575, ^ •' > More or less diatomaceous.
and sandy clays. )
575 to 600, Sandy clays — Moderately diatomaceous.
600 to 620, Brown clay — Rich in diatoms.
620 to 632, Brown clay — Diatoms in greatest abundance.
632 to 658, Chocolate clay and comminuted shell.
Poorly diatomaceous.
The forms from the richest portions at 400, 525 and 625 feet, have been most carefully observed under the microscope and identified by C. Henry Kain and E. A. Schultze.
They have determined 149 species which are distributed among 49 genera.
This includes a number of new species, named, described and figured by them in the Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club.^ They are indicated in the following enumeration which includes all so far listed.
There will probably, however, be a few forms yet to add.
Forms marked rare, are of rare occurrence in the well and not necessarily so elsewhere.
AcTiNOCYCLUS Ehrenbergii, Ralfs.
AcTiNOCYCLus suBTiLis, (Grev.)
Ralfs.
AcTiNOCY'CLUs iNTERPUNCTATus, Bright.
Rare.
AcTiNOCYXLus Ralfsii, W. Sm.
AcTiNoDiscus Atlanticus, n.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
ACTINOPTY'CHUS aREOLATUS, Ehr.
ACTINOPTYXHUS GrUNDLERI, A. S. AcTiNOPTY^CHUS SPLENDENS, (Ehr.)
Grun.
AcTiNOPTYCHUs ujsTDULATus, Ehr.
var.
Halion YX, Grun.
Several varieties.
AcTiNOPTYCHus VULGARIS, Schumau, var.
ViRGiNiCA, Grun.
Several varieties.
Amphitetras minuta, Grev.
Rare.
Anaulus birostratus, Grun.
Very rare.
ASTEROLAMPRA Mary'landica, Ehr.
AuLACODiscus Crux, Ehr.
Two varieties.
Aulacodiscus Petersii, Ehr.
AuLACODiscus SoLLiTTiANus, Norman.
AuLiscus Caballi, a. S. AuLiscus CffiLATUs, Bailey.
iVol.
xvi, pp.
71 to 76 and pp.
207 to 210; Plates LXXXIX., XCII., and XCIII.
AuLiscus PRUiNOSUS, Bailey.
AuLiscus (Glyphodiscus ?)
spiNosus, Christian.
BiDDULPiiiA AURiTA, (Lyngb.)
Breb.
Biddulphia alternans, Christian.
BiDDULPHiA Baileyi, W. Sm.
Biddulphia Brittoniana, n.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
Biddulphia Cookiana, n.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
Biddulphia Woolmanii, n.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
Biddulphia decipiens, Gruu.
Rare.
Biddulphia elegantula, Grev.
Biddulphia pulchella, Gray.
Rare.
Biddulphia rhombus, (Ehr.)
W. Sm.
Biddulphia seticulosa, Grun.
Biddulphia Tuomeyi, Bailey.
Biddulphia turgida, (Ehr.)
W. Sm.
Biddui>phia longispina, Grun.
Biddulphia Weissflogii, Grun.
Cerataulus (Californicus ?
var.)
n.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
CoccoNEMA LANCEOLATUM, Ehr.
Rare.
GosciNODiscus Argus, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS ASTEROMPHALUS, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS CONCAVUS, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS ECCENTRICUS, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS ELONGATUS, Grun.
COSCINODISCUS EXCAVATUS, Grev.
Several varieties.
COSCINODISCUS (ilGAS, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS ISOPORUS, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS Lewisianus, Grev.
Rare.
COSCINODISCUS lineatus, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS Nottinghamensis, Grun.
Rare.
COSCINODISCUS OcuLus Iridis, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS PERFORATUS, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS RADIATUS, Ehr.
COSCINODISCUS RHOMBicus, Castracane.
COSCINODISCUS ROBUSTUS, Grev.
COSCINODISCUS SENARIUS, A. S. COSCINODISCUS SYMMETRicus, Grev.
Cestodiscus ovalis, Grev.
Cestodiscus RHOMBICUS, Grev.
Ch.etoceros (didymus ?
Ehr.)
10 Craspedodiscus coscinodiscus, Ehr.
Craspedodiscus coscinodiscus var.
Nankookensis, Grun.
Cyclotella operculata, Kutz.
Cymatopleura solea, W. i^m.
DiCLADIA CAPREOLUS, Ehr.
DiSCOPEEA PHYSOPLEA, Ehr.
DiMEREGRAMMA NovA C^SAREA, 11.
sp., Kaiii & Schultze.
DiMEREGRAMMA NovA CiESAREA var.
OBTUSA, 11.
var., Kaiii & Schultze.
DiMEREGRAMMA FULYUM, (Greg) Ralfs.
Epithemia Gibba, (Ehr.)
Kutz.
Rare.
Ethmodiscus?
sp?
Castracane.
Eucampia Virginica, Grun.
Rare.
EuNOTiA monodon, Ehr.
Two varieties.
EuNOTiA ROBUSTA, (Ehr.)
Ralfs.
Several varieties.
EuNOTiA Americana, ii.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
EupoDiscus Argus, Ehr.
Eupodiscus radiatus, Bailey.
E^UPODiscus RoGERSii, Ehr.
Varieties with 3, 4 & 5 processes.
Eupodiscus sp.
?
GONIOTHECIUM OBTUSUM, Ehr.
GONIOTHECIUM ODONTELLA, Ehr.
'GONIOTHECIUM RoGERSII, Ehr.
Grammatophora SERPENTINA, Ehr.
var.
Ra»e.
Hemiaulus affinis, Grun.
Hemiaulus bipons, (Ehr.)
Grun.
Hemiaulus polycistinorum, Ehr.
Huttonia Reichardtii, Grun.
var.
Hyalodiscus l.evis, Ehr.
Hyalodiscus Stelliger, Bailey=(PoDOSiRA maculata, W.
Sm.)
LiRADiscus MiNUTus, Grev.
Mastogonia Actinoptychus, Ehr, Mei,osira sulcata, (Ehr.)
Kutz.
Plagiogramma Gregorianum, Grev.
Pleurosigma Virginiacum, Peticolas.
Pleurosigma, Sp.
?
Fragments of a very large form allied to P. angulatum.
PsEUD-AULiscus RADIATUS, Bailey.
Pyxidicula cruciata, Ehr, Rhabdonema Atlanticum, n.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
Raphidodiscus Febicjerii, T. Christiau.
Rhaphoneis gemmifera, Ehr.
Rhaphoneis amphiceros, Ehr.
Rhaphoneis Belgica, Grun.
Rhaphoneis fluminensis, Grun, Rhaphoneis scalaris, Ehr.
Rhizosolenia Americana, Ehr.
Rhizosolenia styliformis, Bright.
SCEPTRONEIS CADUCEUS, Ehr.
Sceptroneis gemmata, Grun.
Stephanogonia Actinoptychus, Ehr.
Stephanogonia polygona, Ehr.
Stephanopyxis apiculata, Ehr.
Stephanopyxis ferox, (Grev.)
Ralfs.
Stephanopyxis Corona, (Ehr.)
Grun.
Stephanopyxis Grunowii, Grove & Sturt.
Stephanopyxis limbata, Ehr.
Rare.
Stephanopyxis Turris, (Grev.)
Ralfs.
Stictodiscus Buryanus, Grev.
Stictodiscus Kittonianus, Grev.
SuRiRELLA Fe^igerii, Lewis.
Tabulina testudo, J. Brun.
Terpsinoe intermedia, Grun.
var.
Triceratium American um, Ralfs.
Triceratium condecorum, Bright.
Triceratium Ehrenbergii, Grun.
Triceratium Ehrenbergii, (Discoplea undulata, Ehr.)
Triceratium Fisherii, A. S. Triceratium Heilprinianum, n.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
Triceratium Kainii, n.
sp., Schultze.
Triceratium indentatum, n.
sp., Kain & Schultze.
Triceratium Kainii, Schultze, var.
constrictum, Kain & Schultze, n. var.
Triceratium Marylandicum, Bright.
Triceratium obtusum, Ehr.
Triceratium robustum, Grev.
Triceratium semicirculare.
Bright.
= (Euodia BrightWELLii, Ralfs.)
Triceratium spinosum, Bailey.
Triceratium Solenoceros, Ehr.
Rare, Triceratium tessellatum, Grev.
Triceratium undulatum, Ehr.
Tryblionella Hantzschiana, Grim.
Tryblionella scutellum, W. Sm.
Many of the forms are found everywhere from top to base of this section.
Among these Meloslra sulcata is one of the most frequent.
Others are found predominating only at certain horizons ; among these may be noticed a beautiful iridescent, many-rayed disc form, Act'inocyclus Ehrenbergii which is chai'acteristically abundant at 625 feet ; it occurs sparingly at 525 feet but is scarcely if at all seen at 400 feet.
At about 525 feet the genus Rhaphoneis, an elongated form, occurs more frequently than elsewhere and in many varieties.
Associated ■with it at this same depth are a number of rare forms heretofore found only in this country in an Artesian well at Cambridge, Md., at a depth of 275 feet, and again in a well at Fortress Monroe at a depth of 558 feet.
The general resemblance seen in strewn mounts from Cambridge and Atlantic City is so great as to suggest an exact identity of strata.
More light, however, will be needed to definitely settle this point.
Respecting Rhapho7ieis, the variety of forms grading almost insensibly from one to the other is so great that it is possible to so arrange a dozen or more side by side in a line that differences are not readily appreciable except by skipi:)ing over ijitermediate forms and comparing those some distance apart.
In fact, T. Christian has shown me a slide containing 16 such forms from the Cambridge well, and C. Henry Kain has remarked respecting these same forms at Atlantic City, that they " present such variations of structure as to suggest the advisability of decreasing the number of species usually considered as belonging to this genus."
There is a curious anomaly in connection with a newly described elongated species, Biddulphia Brittoniana, found at 525 feet.
In this the two frustules composing one individual and usually presenting their convex sides outward, have never been observed in that manner, but instead, two frustules separated from different individuals are found with their convex sides inward and fastened together by the interlocking of curiously hooked seta; at both ends of each frustule.
At 425 feet five foraminiferal forms are associated with the diatoms.
After chemical treatment of earth from this depth for the cleaning and sej^aration of the diatoms one species of foraminifera, a Textularia remained intact in the form of a siliceous infernal cast — the shell having been destroyed bv the acids used.
In the sands interbedded between these diatoniaceous clays occur the three lower of the water-producing strata noticed in connection with well No.
4.
The upper one as before stated proved unsatisfactory ; the middle gave but a scanty flow, and the lower yielded an abundant supply of water.
In a letter received by the writer from the late Prof. George H. Cook he says : " I have written the well contractors and also marked on a geological map the location and dip of strata and the depth and location of the wells on the water-bearing stratum from which Atlantic City may reasonably hope to get a supply of good water and have assured them that it should be carefully looked for at 530 to 600 feet below sea level," and in a letter to a member of the company he named 577 feet as the probable depth.
This came very close to the fact as was afterwards realized.
In the letter to the writer just quoted he states "that the bored Avells at Barnegat, Harvey Cedars, Weymouth, May's Landing and Pleasant Mills have all the same quality of water, have passed through similar strata, and are on a dip of 25 feet per mile."
Assuming as probable that the wells at Pleasant Mills and well No.
4 at Atlantic City draw from the same stratum, and measuring the distance between the two locations at right angles to lines drawn through each parallel to the trend of the cretaceous strata we have 22 miles.
The well at Pleasant Mills is of 34 feet depth below tide.
This would make the dip for at least the upper })ortion of the Miocene beds 23 to 24 feet per mile, thus harmonizing wdth the views of the late State Geologist.
E — Beneath the diatomaceous clays and occupying the next 103 feet, or from 658 to 761 feet, occurs a series of fossiliferous beds as follows : Chocolate clay, comminuted shell, slightly diatomaceous.
See footnote page 135.
19 f 5 ft. Green marl full of shelly 677 to 700.
Fossil ^' 8 ft. Sandy clay full of shell [.
.
23 [ 10 ft. Light sand full of shell j 8 ft. Coarse gravel & sand nonfossiliferous "\ 6 ft. Quicksand nonfossiliferous ^ 26 12 ft.
Dark chocolate clay nonfossiliferous 3 „^„ , -^ ., f 4 ft. Sandv marl and shell ) „.
/26to iOi.
lossili^_» ^ ' 1 VI 1 n ( • • ^^ (.
27 ft. Green marl with shell ) Tough clav mixed with gravel .
.
4 These beds are probably the same as the Pliocene shell outcrops at Shiloh and Jericho near Bridgetou, N. J.
The lower of the two fossil horizons within this section showing some of the rarer forms found at these localities.
The species found here will be again referred to in connection with those from greater depth.
F — The next interval of 83 feet is occupied by sands, the upper 73 feet being reddish-brown in color and much like those above the diatom beds and the lower 13 feet being a gray micaceous quicksand.
G — Between 844 to 955 feet are included a clay and a marl bed as follows : 844 to 905.
Fossil {^^^^■^"^^^?°^'^*^"^'^y' | ... 61 i a fesv fossils at 875 feet. )
r Green marl ; lower 2 feet a bed of pon-"^ 905 to 955.
Fossil < derous oysters so broken by the drill ^ .
55 C as to be undeterminable as to species. )
H — The next section from 955 to 1095 feet covers 140 feet of peculiar greenish-yellow sands with many streaks of loam of the same color.
It contains barnacles throughout, indicating a shallow sea.
This was further corroborated by a few shallow water mollusks at about 1000 feet.
I — From 1095 to 1225 a series of 130 feet includes two marl beds and is best described thus : 1095 to 1126, { Dark greenish-gray clay ; j ^ ^ 3^ ( abundance of foraminitera.
j 1126 to 1146, Dark green marl.
20 1146 to 1170, Dark green marly clays 24 1170 to 1225, Fossil, | ^^^^ ^^^'^^ S'^^" ""'^'^ ' ^''"''^'^'' ] 55 L granulata ?it IISO feet. )
From this point downward, as far as the boring continued, to 1,400 feet or thereabout, is one continuous bed of tough clay, light to dark slate in color and containing multitudes of foraminifera especially in the lighter colored clays.
There are also from this bed a few mollusks and quite a number of specimens of deep sea corals belonging to the genus Flaeocyathus very similar to an undescribed form from the Miocene deposits of San Domingo and now in the Academy's collection.
The life forms of this division indicate a deepening sea.
The foraminifera very closely resemble species described in 1846, by d'Orbigny from the Miocene clays around Vienna.
Forms representing at least 14 genera occur in all the clays below 1,095 feet while about five of the same generic forms have been observed between 430 to 480 feet.
The genera are as follows : — Nodosaria, Dentalina, Cristellaria, Robulina, Nonionina, RotaUna, Rosa/lna, Bulemlna, Uvigerlna, Amphistigina, Guttulina, Biloculina, Triloculina and Textularia.
It now remains to enumerate the fossils, excepting the microscopic , ones already listed.
Although generally in very fragmentary condition, it has been possible to name 82 species of mollusks, exclusive of 8 forms determinable by genera only.
Besides the mollusks there were representatives of eleven other life forms, among them a few varieties of corals and a bone belonging to an animal of the crocodilian order.
Identifications of all the fossils, excepting the microscopic, have been very kindly made by Prof. A. Heilprin.
Specimens obtained from both wells No.
1 and No.
8 are included.
In those from No.
3 the depth where each was found is given ; in No.
1 this is not known.
Of the 41 molluscan forms from well No.
1 and noted in the Academy's Proceedings for 1889, all but 12 were again found in well No.
3.
The list is as follows : Anomia probably ephippium.
Arca centexaria.
A RCA subrostrata, 682.
Arca (idonea?)
Arca lienosa, 725.
Arca plicatura.
Artemis acetabulum.
ASTARTE obruta, 682.
ASTARTE PERPLANA, 700.
AsTAKTE Thomasii, 875.
AsTARTE CUNEIFORMIS, 695.
AsTARTE compsonema, 725, 875.
Amphidesma subreflexa, 750.
Cardita granulata, 682, 750, 885, 1180.
Cardita arata.
Cardium creticuloides "I or LEPTOPLEURA, j Cardium laqueatum, 700.
Corbula cuneata, 750.
Corbula idonea, 700.
CORBULA ELEVATA, 752.
CORBULA SP.
?
900.
Chama congregata, 700, 750.
Crassatella melina.
Cytherea 8P.?
DONAX VARIABILIS.
.
GOULDIA LUNULATA Or AsTARTE, 1350.
LUCINA TRISULCATA, 752.
LUCINA CRENULATA, 752, 875, 1350.
LlTCINA FOREMANI, 695-730.
Mactra lateralis, 682, 752.
Mytiloconcha incurva.
Mytilus incrassatus, 682, 752.
Mysia acclinis, 752. nucula 0bliqua=proxima, 730.
Ne^ra sp., 1335.
OsTREA Mauricensis, 682.
(182,725.
I OSTREA sp., ^^ 955^ jQ()Q I Pecten Madisonius, 682, 750.
Pecten Humphreysii, 677, 700.
Pecten vicenarius.
Pecten Marylandica, 726, 1000.
Pecten comparilis.
Pectunculus parilis, 726.
Pectunculus lentiformis, 752.
Perna maxillata, 682, 750.
Saxicava arctica, 740.
Tellina subreflexa.
Tellina declivis, 752.
YoLDiA or Leda, 752.
VoLvuLA or Bulla, 1380.
Venus altilaminata 682, 730.
Venus sp.?
687, 750.
DiSCINA lugubris, Cerithium sp.?
875.
CoLUMBELLA (AmYCLA) COMMUNIS, 740.
Cylichna sp.
?
Crepidula sp.
?
690, 750.
Dentalium sp.
?
690.
Proc.AcHd.Nat.Sci.Phila.
1390.
Plate I.
"fllsbry del.
PILSBRY ON AEROPE AND PUPA.
1890.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
145 i Dentalium dentalis, 1400.
1 FuLGUR Shiloiiensis, 730.
FuLGUR sp.?
G82, 750, 875. ; Fusus devexa, 726.
| Murex Shilohensis, 730.
Natica catenoides, 677, 756, 875.
Natica duplicata, 690, 750. '
Neptunea migrans, 875.
'• Neptunea sp.
?
730.
Oliva canaliculata,=Carolinensis, 695, 726.
PeRISTERNIA FILICATA, 730.
Pleurotoma Marylandica, 890.
\ Pleurotoma pseudeburnea, 740.
T/\ ' Pleurotoma limatula ?
875.
^ ' Petaloconchus sculpturatus, 1000.
\ Turritella Cumberlandia, 682. !
turritella ^quistriata, 752. '
Turritella plebeia, 677.
Turritella indenta ?
Turritella secta, 875, 900, 1400.
Turbinella Woodi.
Tritia trivitata, 726, 875.
Tritia peralta, 875.
Tritia obsoleta.
Trochita centralis, 695, 750.
Turbo eboreus, 750.
Terebra indenta, 730.
Terebra simplex, 690, 730. r Placocyathus.
Coral -| AsTREA.
( Dendrophy'llia.
f Lamna tooth.
„.
, Odontaspis tooth.
h ish -' _ , Mylobates tooth.
I Fish scale.
Gavial — Tooth.
Crocodilian Bone — Femur or humerus.
EcHiNoiD spines.
OpERCULA of GASTEROPODS.
Crustaceans | Manacles, Balanus ( Crab's claws.
11 Of the molluscan forms named above whose depth is known, 54 were from the two fossiliferous beds included between 677 and 757 feet.
Of these 37 were found in the lower of the two divisions — 10 of these and 17 others making together 27, Avere found in the upper of the two divisions.
Of the forms in both divisions, 26 have been found at Shiloh and Jericho, and include several species especially characteristic of these localities and j^robably belong to the same bed.
Five of the above and nine others wei'e found at 875 feet, viz : — ASTARTE ThOMASII.
AsTARTE CoMPSONEMA.
Also at 725 feet.
Cardita granulata.
Also 677 to 757 and below.
Cerithium.
CORBULA.
FULGUR.
LiTciNA CRENULATA.
Also 757 and below.
Lyrosoma sulcosa.
Also lower.
Natica catenoides.
Also 677 to 756. i^eptunea migrans.
Pleurotoma Marylandica.
Pleurotoma limatula.
Also lower.
TURRITELLA SECTA.
'Tritia trivittata.
Also 725.
The following three shallow water species were obtained at about 1000 feet in association with Balanus.
OSTREA.
Pecten Marylandica.
Petalaconchas sculpturatus.
Cardita granulata occurred at 1180 feet also at 875 feet and in both divisions of the horizon, between 677 to 757 feet.
In the tough clay bed below 1335 feet were the following: Dentalium dentalis.
GOULDIA LIMATULA Or AsTARTE.
LuciNA CRENULATA.
Also higher.
Ly^rosoma sulcosa.
Also at 875.
Ne^era sp.
?
Pecten comparilis.
turritella secta.
VoLVULA or Bulla.
To these should be added the coral (Placocyathus) before noted.
The evidence as to the sections from .383 feet to 1225 feet, Avhere the bottom of the very dark green marl bed is reached, is preponderatingly in favor of Miocene age for these strata.
In view of the lack of distinctive Eocene fossils below that depth the occurrence of Placocyathns and the still decided Miocene aspect of the few molluscan remains, it may be concluded that the boring has not yet passed through the Miocene.
The occurrence of Turritella plebeia and Pecten Hwnphreysii in these wells, and of Turritella plebeia in a well at Cape May Point at a dejith of about 400 feet, would indicate for the u])per portion a INIiddle INIiocene age, while all below would be Lower iNIiocene.
Reference has already been made to the dip of the yellow gravel and of the diatomaceous clays, the latter being placed at 23 to 24 feet per mile.
The shell marl at Shiloh outcrops about 60 feet above tide, and the distance between parallel lines of strike for Shiloh and the well'i^ 35 miles.
The bottom of what is probably the corresponding shell stratum in the well is at 757 feet.
A calculation ])ased on these data gives 23 feet to the mile as the dip for the Shiloh beds.
The water from Winslow well, and from Atlantic City Well No.
1 at 1100 feet, are of the same quality as proved by analysis.
This favors their being from the same stratum.
Winslow is distant 30 miles and the depth of the well thei-e below tide is 215 feet.
Based on these figures the dip of strata in that portion of the well is 29 to 30 feet per mile ; this increase of dip is probal)ly correct.
In fact when we take into consideration the greater thickness seaward of the sands and clays in the lower jiortions of the well, together with the oscillations of sea level as shown by the character of the fossils, these being alternately shallow sea and deep sea forms, it is quite likely we shall yet find a still greater increase of dip for the base of the Miocene.
The results of this examination indicate a greater thickness for the Miocene deposits of the southern part of the State than has generally been held by geologists, and as a consequence increases the heretofore estimated dip of the underlying Cretaceous and Eocene beds in that section of the State.
These INIiocene shell and diatom l)eds are no doubt closely related to beds of similar character and of the same age in Maryland and Virginia.
The author is not however at present able to trace any one stratum continuously.
The diatomaceous clays at Atlantic City occur above beds containing Perna, while in the States just named similar clays occur below Perna beds.
That there are several Perna beds would seem to be the solution of this problem.
This however remains vet to be demonstrated.
April 1.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
One hundred and twelve persons present.
The deaths of John Jordan Jr. and Frederick Graff, members, were announced.
Mr. Theo.
D. Rand gave before the ]Mineralogical and Geological Section the substance of his paper on " The Serpentines of Southeastern Pennsylvania, " with lantern illustrations.
April 8.
Mr. Gavin W. Hart in the chair.
Seveliteen persons present.
April 15.
The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
Variatio7is in Bidimus exilis.
— Dr. Benjamin Sharp called attention to two varieties of Bnlimus exilis which he had found on the islands of Guadeloupe and Dominica.
One variety was characterized by broad dark brown bands, which run parallel with the coil of the shell ; while the other was peculiar in possessing small and very faint bands, which in many specimens were entirely absent.
The banded variety was found to be common in Guadeloupe, while the bandless one was rare.
In Dominica, which is separated from Guadeloupe by a channel of only twenty-three miles, the banded variety was very rare, while the light or loandless one was comparatively common, although individuals were by no means so common in Dominica as in Guadeloupe.
He spoke of the probable cause of the variation and suggested that it was due to some environmental action.
The island of Dominica being wholly of volcanic origin, w^ould produce a different kind of food from the Grande Terre portion of Guadeloupe, which in formation is purely coral.
It was on this portion of Guadeloupe that the specimens of B. exilis were collected.
It is known that Dominica has mauy species and some genera of plants that are peculiar to the island, and this difference of food may in some way account for the differences in this species of land snail.
Dr. Sharp said that it is probable that the dearth of laud shells on the volcanic islands and their coraparative plenty on the coral and continental islands of the Caribbean group is due to the absence of carbonate of lime in the former and its presence in the latter.
Hemarks on the exuviae of snakes.
— Dr. Benjamin Sharp further spoke on the exuviae of two snakes, Avhich were shed in the laboratory of the Academy two days previously.
These snakes, Eutameia sirtalis, B.
& G., had been presented to the Academy on the 19th of March, 1890, and had been captured the day before in New Jersey.
The whole process of shedding the skin had been observed.
One of the snakes was in the water when first seen, and coming out upon the sod it shrugged and shook itself for a moment ; then getting between the glass of the vivarium and the box containing the earth, the skin parted at the jaws and the animal crawled out leaving the exuvia.
The cerebral portion being fixed, the animal passed through the opening, so that the discarded skin, as is always the case, was turned wrong side out.
One of the specimens was interesting as it was entirely perfect, without the slightest rent and not a scale missing.
The other was perfect, but there was a considerable rent on each side of the jaw.
The operation took less than one -minute.
The snake was startled about the middle of the process.
It crawled away from the exuvia very rapidly.
April 22.
]\Ir.
Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Twenty-three persons present.
The following were presented for jiublication : — " New East Indian Land Shells."
By H. A. Pilsbry. "
Description of a new species of Helix."
By John Ford.
April 29.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
The folloAving were elected members : — Abraham Barker, William K. Shryock and Walter Conrad.
The following was ordered to be printed : — SYNOPSIS OF AMERICAN CARBONIC CALYPTR^ID^.
BY CHARLES R. KEYES.
There has always been a considerable diversity of opinion as to what term should really be applied to that paleozoic group of gasteropodous shells commonly referred, by most American writers, to Platyceras of Conrad.
The described species of this group have been variously and indifferently assigned to Capulus Montfort,^ Fileopsis Lamarck,' Actita Fisher von Waldheim,^ Platyceras Conrad,* Acroculia Phillips,^ OHhonychiaHaW and some other genera.
Of these Capulus and Platyceras have become at last generally adojDted ; the former having preference with most European, and the latter with the majority of American authors.
Generic Considerations.
It may be premised here that the two genera just mentioned are practically coextensive ; and since the first has precedence — of more than thirty years — it should be used instead of the second.
Even if the group to which Conrad gave the name Platyceras is a valid one it is very questionable whether the term could stand, inasmuch as it has been preoccupied for threequarters of a century.
It has long been known that Geoffrey in 1764 proposed for a genus of coleoptera the name Platyceras, a term which was later employed by Latreille * and which continues to the present day in good usage as originally proposed.
Taking advantage of this fact OEhlert '■' has recently revived Phillips' name Acroculia for the Platyceras group of shells ; but this of course cannot i)e adopted.
As regards the actual generic characters of the various species, their specific limitations, range of variation and the distribution in time and space of the different varieties, greater confusion has, 1 Conch.
System., vol.
II, p. 54.
(1810.)
2 Anim.
sans Vertebr., t. VI, (2), p. 16.
(1822.)
3 Mem.
de la Soc.
imp.
d. Naturalistes de Moscau, t. VI, p. 234.
(1823.)
* Ann.
Rep. N. Y. Gaol.
Sur., p. 205.
(1840.)
5 Palte.
Fobs.
Cornwall, p. 93.
(1841.)
6 Rept.
4th Dist.
N. Y., p. 172.
(1843.)
"> Hist, abregee des Insectes, 1764.
8 Precis des caracteres des Insectes, 1796.
9 Bill, de la Soc.
Geol.
de France, (3), t. XI, p. 602. perhaps, nowhere existed among fossil uiollusks than in tlie group under consideration.
This utter hick of agreement among Avriters is directly traceable to a number of causes : the majority of the species have been described from very few or single specimens, with little regard to tlie forms already known ; no attention whatever was paid to variability and indeed the range of the latter has only very lately been made out with any degree of certainty ; comparisons with individuals from localities more or less widely distant have been made only in excei^tional cases.
General Features.
The leading characters of generic value in modern Capulus, as shown by the more typical shells, as C. humjaricus Linne, are the obliquely conical shape, the small, often closely incurved or coiled spire, the broad campanulate aj)ertural portions and the peculiar horse-shoe-shaped muscular impressions.
In the paleozoic forms heretofore referred to Platyeeras these features have been made out most clearly in C. paralius (AV.
& W.) and C. equilatendia (Hall) ; though the affinities are not less striking in many other species.
In a group of more than three hundred described paleozoic species having so few salient characters for classification and such a great range of variation as the forms assigned ta Platyeeras it is hard to foresee the difficulties in attempting to arrange satisfactorily the manv different forms.
The genus may ultimately admit of a suitable separation into several more or less well marked subdivisions ; and the many forms make such an arrangement very desirable.
It can, however, only be accomplished after a careful and critical revision of the entire group.
The placing of Platyeeras, OrtJionychia, etc., as subgenera under Oipulm, as has been done by ZitteP and others, manifestly does not meet the requirements, at least in so far as the American species are concerned.
It is probable that all of the described Platycei-ata cannot be included under Capulus.
Just which ones, remains for future comparisons to decide.
There seems to be good ground for believing that further study will show that a number of the paleozoic forms in question belong more properly to genera closely allied to Capulus rather than to Capulus itself.
This would carry back the antiquity of certain modern genera farther than has hitherto been considered possible, A recent critical examination of certain described Platycerata also discloses that they belong to families entirely difterent from those supposed.
1 Handbuch der Pal?eontologie, II Band, p. 210.
General Relations.
There is often considerable embarrassment in attempting to separate certain paleozoic Capnli, on the one hand from some forms of Platysfoma, especially from those species in which there is a greater or less tendency for the shells to nncoil ; and on the other hand from various genera of Patelloid shells.
As might be expected in a group of gasteropods presenting so few constant characters, which can be satisfactorily relied upon as classificatory criteria, it is often impossible to clearly distinguish between certain of these species.
Many structural features long regarded as of much importance in identification have recently ^ been shown to possess very little, if any, specific value, owing to their great variability.
It has therefore become necessary to consider as of the utmost significance, the basing of species upon general resemblances rather than upon unimportant varient characters arising from the diverse conditions of environment imposed by a more or less extensive geographic and geologic distribution.
Therefore in choosing for classificatory purposes the characters of any group it is evident that only those features exhibiting the least tendency to modification are available.
Even the most constant structures appear to lose much of their stability at some period during the existence of the group — whether specific, generic or family ; while other characters more or less variant in the earlier stages of development, later become less liable to change.
At some time these features blend and thus appear the transitional forms.
It may be assumed, then, that in many groups of the same genetic origin some varieties will present features that have remained for a long time practically unmodified ; w^hile others exhibit the same characters in a highly specialized, but ever changing condition.
And it is of great interest to note that the latter — those having greatly exaggerated features — are the forms wiiose existence is of comparatively short duration ; and that with these intensified structures the development is rather rapid, while their culmination results in a great diminution of the gi'oup's vitality, or more commonly its extinction.
Number of Species.
Among the first to notice the existence of Carbonic Capuli in the continental interior were Yandell and Shumard, who called attention to the association of a species with an Acrocrmus (afterwards described by the former author as A. shuviardi).
These writers attempted to prove that the crinoids were carnivorous in their habits, and that they subsisted on moUusks.
1 Keyes : Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc, vol.
XXV, p. 231.
Capulus acutirostris, however, was the first species of this group of gasteropods described from the Carbonic rocks of tlie Mississippi basin ; and was so denominated by Hall in 185fi.
The publication of this diagnosis was followed in quick succession by definitions of other forms by Stevens, Hall, Swallow, McChesney, Winchell, White and Whitfield, and Meek and AVorthen ; so that the total number of species that have been brought to notice from the carbonic rocks of North America is more than two score.
A part of this number are, however, to be regarded as synonyms, reducing the actual number of species as now recognized nearly one-half.
I.
Habits of the Carbonic Calyptr^eans.
Variation in Form.
It has been noted frequently in the descriptions of various paleozoic species of Capulus that the shells often present a more or less well-defined quinquelobate appearance and that the apertural margins are for the most part sinuous or crenate.
In the absence of salient classificatory characters these features were regarded usually of much importance for specific distinction.
It was not until a comparatively recent date that their true significance was indicated.
The fact here referred to is the attachment of fossil Capuli to foreign bodies and particularly to the calyces of crinoids.
The observations on this habit of the ancient Capuli has been fully considered elsewhere but may be here briefly summarized by stating that, in all the examples examined — upwards of sevei'al hundreds — (1) the gasteropod shell invariably lies over the anal opening of the crinoid ; (2) the mollusk remained in this position for a considerable period, probably for the greater part of life, as is shown by the shells on highly ornamented calyces and by the removal of them from their places of attachment and tracing the growth of the shell by the concentric grooves made on the ventral plates ; (3) the growing shell followed closely the inequalities of the surface upon Avhich it rested — depressions giving rise to furrows and protuberances to folds or nodes ; and (4) shells simply lying on flat surfaces are much more depressed and proportionally broader than those clinging to the vertical or inclined portions of calyces in which the anal opening is situated laterally.
The third of these statements is perhaps best illustrated by crinoids having low interradial areas and elevated radial regions and is the probable explanation of the frequent occurrence ofthe more or less distinctlyfive-lobed calyptrsean 1 Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc, vol.
xxv, 1888. shells.
Heretofore this pheuomeuon has admitted of no direct causal iuterpretation.
Attachment to Crinolds.
The adherence of gasteropods of the genus under consideration to fossil crinoids was at first thought to furnish conclusive evidence of the carnivorous habits of the Crinoidea ; and inasmuch as it was at that time considered that the aperture in the vault was the mouth, this explanation seemed very plausible.
Consequently the conclusion was very naturally reached that the criuoid, when it perished, was in the act of devouring the raollusk.
jNIeek and Worthen^ appear to be the first to question the prevalent opinions regarding the intimate association of crinoid and gasteropod ; and to suggest that the mollusk was, in all probability, stationed on the echinoderm for a protracted period, perhaps even for the greater portion of its life.
But notwithstanding the fact that the univalve was almost invariably situated over the ventral aperture, and that this opening was recognized as the anus, these writers do not seem to entertain for a moment the idea that the gasteropod may have been nourished upon the refuse matter from the crinoid.
The latter view more recently has been preferred by Wachsmuth and is now favorably received by other paleontologists.
In every instance of the several hundred specimens lately examined the calyptnean covers the anal opening of the crinoid ; and, so far as observable, it is always the anterior portion of the molluscan shell that is directed toward the vault aperture.
In those examples where the shell has been removed its impression made on the ventral surface shows that the anterior margin of the peristome was at the edge of the opening in the dome — a .position that would have brought the mouth of the mollusk directly over the anus of the crinoid.
From an examination of the concentric markings made by the molluscan shell on the vaults of Strotocrinus (Plate II, fig.
7) and some other genera, it appears that the forward end of the Capulus was always stationary at the margin of the dome opening ; and that, as the growth of the shell continued the posterior portion was removed farther and farther from the ventral aperture of the crinoid.
The food of recent crinoids consists chiefly of animalcules and microscopic plants and the living Calyptrseidse subsist on food of a similar nature.
From analogy it might be inferred that the food of fossil crinoids and mollusks must have been like their modern representatives.
So far as the echinoderms are concerned there seems 1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., 1868, p. 340, e^ se,/.
to be no serious objections to this inference.
But with the univalves their position throuy-h life indicates that their sustenance was, in great part at least, of a somewhat different character.
The anatomy of the crinoid and the position of the molluscan shell are not in accord with the supposition that the calyptnean may in anv way have been nourished on the food of the crinoid.
This woiiUl im[)ly that the gasteropod was parasitic in its habits, a view wliich, though held by most writers, does not appear to be structurally substantiated.
While no doubt the Capulus derived the greater part of its food from excrementitious matter, nourishment from other sources may also have been obtained and in all probability it was very similar to that of the crinoids and the living Calyptrajida^.
Furthermore there does not seem to be the slightest indication that the crinoid was in any manner inconvenienced by the attachment of the gasteropod, except, perhaps, in a few cases where the molluscan shell had encircled the posterio-lateral arms, Avhich were in consequence slightly pressed outward.
The only really noticeable effect of the presence of Capulus on the crinoid is a comparatively shallow depression or groove on some of the vault plates — marking the position of the shell lip ; though in the majority of specimens even this feature is not well pronounced (Plate II, figs.
6 and 7).
There are no grounds for the view advanced by TrautschohP in regard to Cromyocrinus st«ip^e.i'Trauts.
and its adhering Capttlus parasiticus Tvsxnts.
from the loAver Carbonic of Russia.
He says: " Es ist nicht unmoglich, dass der oben beschriebene cylindrische Processus der Analplatten zum Schutz gegeu diese Verfolger des (V. simj)lex aufgebaut ist."
The " cylindrical jDrocess" here referred to is manifestly a ventral sac and therefore was not caused by the presence of the gasteropod.
Illustrative Examples.
In some crinoids, as Gilbertsocrinus, the plates of the vault are more or less convex or nodose.
This nodosity of the ventral plates reaches a high development in such forms as G. tuberosue Lyon and Casseday, from Crawfordsville, Indiana.
Nearly one-half of the known individuals of this species have a gasteropod adhering.
The specimens illustrate well the adaptation of the apertural margin of the shell to the irregularities of the crinoid al surface, for it is clearly observable, as first pointed out by ]\Ieek and Worthen, that the contact of the gasteropod shell and crinoid is not the result of accidental pressure, but that the moUusk 1 Die Kalkbriiche von Mjatsclikowa, p. IIS.
adhered to the surface of the crinoid for a considerable period, as is shown by the sinuosities of the peristome corresponding exactly to the inequalities of the surface beneath.
In young shells the sinuosities of the apertural margin are comparatively much more pronounced than in older individuals.
Many of the latter exhibit much irregularity in the lines of growth, which might at first appear to be due to a change of station, but closer inspection shows that this is not the case.
When the plates of the crinoidal vault are nodose, as in Gilbertsoerinus tuberosus, the lines of growth in adult shells, contrary to the more usual manner among gasteropods generally, are far from being even approximately parallel to one another ; and in the lip of the shell a sinus caused by a nodose plate at one period of growth may be represented in the next by a projecting lobe which extended into a deep depression between the nodes of two contiguous plates.
In considering the structural peculiarities of the calyptrtean shell three features — the general form, the configuration of the aperture, and the surface markings — appear to have been susceptible of considerable modification as the result of the sedentary habits of the mollusk.
An examination of a large series of certain species of Capulus reveals the fact that the variant tendency in all three of these particulars is much greater than might be supposed ; and when the attachment of these gasteropods to foreign bodies is taken into consideration the causes for such varietal development become manifest.
It has been shown that the mollusk doubtless remained fixed throughout a greater portion of life, and that the surface upon which it first settled determined in great part both the form of the shell and the shape of its aperture.
When the surface of attachment was flat, as in the vaults of Gilbertsoerinus and Stroiocrinus, the molluscan shell was greatly depressed and the peristome ample ; but when the foreign body was strongly convex the shell was more conical, with a comparatively much smaller aperture.
It has been stated elsewhere that, in regard to the second of the three variant features observable in the calyptra^an shell, the margin of the peristome partakes of all the inequalities of the surface to which the gasteropod adheres.
Few of the species attached to crinoids may be said to have true surface ornamentation, for the longitudinal folds or jilications in the shell are in many cases due chiefly to the character of the surface of attachment.
In some specimens of Capulus injundibulum (M. & W.) there have been noticed, in addition to the undefinedlonffitiidinal folds, several series of small couspicuous nodes; but these in all examples seem to result from the peculiar nodose ornamentation of Platycrimis hemisphericus with which the univalves are associated.
It appears, then : (1) that some, if not the majority, of the ancient Capuli were stationary during life ; (2) that the nourishment of many of these sedentary gasteropods was derived, in great part at least, from the excrementitious matter from crinoids ; and (3) that the form of the peristome and its marginal configuration, being dependent upon the surface of attachment, have small value as characters for specific distinction.
The Carbonic species of Capulus in which sedentary habits are positively known from the attachment of the gasteropods to echinoderms, together with the various species of crinoids intimately associated, are given in the accompanying synoptical table, page 158.
Range of Variability.
Among modern gasteropods attention of late has been called frequently to the variation in the form of the shell as the result of differences in the local conditions of station.
In the extension of this inquiry to fossil groups many difficulties are met with, among which the most formidable, perhaps, is the inability to obtain enough material for an adequate consideration of the subject.
Usually the shells of any one species are not abundant locally, nor is the representation from localities, more or less widely separated geographically, sufficient to permit of satisfactory comparisons.
Lately Capulus has unexpectedly furnished a very interesting series illustrating the range of variation in several species.
The comparison is perhaps most striking in the projection of ten specimens of Capulus equilateralis as recently ^ graphically represented.
The case referred to is only a single one of many to be found among the raollusca.
It is very significant in its bearing upon the true basis of species ; and indicates plainly that, in attempting to separate specimens specifically, too much stress should not be j^laced upon individual characters.
Other Causes of Variation.
In connection with variation of species it is of great interest to note the apparent effect of gravitation in altering the form of some gasteropod shells.
This phase can be more satisfactorily considered in Capulus equilateralis and C. infundihulum than in most other species, because w'hen attached to the vaults of 1 Variation exhibited by a Carbonic Gasteropod, Am.
Geol., vol.
Ill, June, 1889.
158 proceedings of the academy of [1890.
Synoptical Table of Crinoids and Associated Capull Crinoids.
•2 ^ -2 •2 IV5 2 ?s s cc •d '-C eo « 2" •^ 55 ^ • •^ \\\\&r\, 1868.
Gaol.
Sur.
Illinois, vol.
Ill, p. 458, pi.
-xiv, figs.
3a, 3b.
Shell below medium size, very obliquely ovate, forming about two very rapidly expanding volutions, which are contiguous, except near the apertural margin ; whorls rather compressed, somewhat sharply rounded along the periphery.
Spire slightly elevated above the level of the body whorl.
Aperture ample, oval ; labrum sinuous.
Surface marked by undulating lines of growth and often by a few low, obscurely defined ridges.
Horizon and localities.
Kinderhook beds : Richfield and Newark, Ohio.
This form is commonly found only as internal casts and the surface markings are therefore rarely preserved.
The species usually does not have the labrum touching the spire, nor the latter as closely coiled as is shown in the figures of IVIeek & Worthen.
Capulus lodiensis (Meek).
Platyceras i^Orthonychia) lodiense Meek, 1871.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., 1871, p. 170.
Platyceras [Orthonyckia] lodiense Meek, 187.5.
Geol.
Sur.
Ohio (Pals.
), vol.
II, p. 313, pi.
xiii, figs, la, lb.
Shell l)elow^ medium size, obliquely conic, anterior slope moderately convex, lateral slopes straight, or very slightly concave, posterior slope concave ; a narrow rounded ridge extends anteriorly from near the apex to the labrum.
Aperture subelliptic ; margin somewhat sinuous.
Surface apparently marked by fine lines of growth only.
Horizon and localiixj.
Kinderhook beds : Lodi, Ohio.
Capulus lodiensis seems to be very closely related to C. suhplicatus, with which it should, perhaps, be regarded as synonymous ; the chief difference being simply the more plicate character of the latter.
It has been elsewhere shown that the plications are extremely variable and are dependent largely upon the accidental station of the mollnsk.
The type specimen is imbedded in a hard matrix — only the interior of the shell being exposed to view.
Meek's figures were made from plaster casts of the interior, so that no surface markings are discernible.
Capulus paralius (AVhite & Whitfield).
[Plate IT, figs, la, lb.]
Platyceras paralmvi White & Whitfield, 186'2.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
History, vol.
V'lII, p. 303.
Platyceras paralium Keyes, 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 294.
Capulus paralius Keyes, 1890.
Am.
Geol., vol.
V. Shell small, forming about two rapidly expanding volutions, which are not contiguous ; apical portions minute, slender, laterally compressed, subangular along the dorsum, more or less distinctly plicate.
Aperture irregularly pentagonal ; labrum sharp, deeply sinuous, or somewhat serrate.
Surface marked by few subimbricate lines of growth.
Horizon and localities.
Kinderhook beds : Des Moines and iVIarshall counties, Iowa ; Lodi, Ohio.
The apical portion of the shell is more slender and extended than the type would indicate from a casual examination.
The smaller specimen figured (Plate II, fig.
lb) shows the spire perfectly preserved.
The type (Plate II, fig.
la) has the longitudinal folds much more prominent than is apparent in a representative specimen of the species.
In some examples the plications are hardly noticeable.
This species is widely distributed geographically, ranging froniLe Grand, in central Iowa, to the southeastern part of the State and thence to Ohio.
Capulus subplicatus (Meek & Worthen).
Platyceras [Orihonyc/iia) subplicatum Meek & Worthen, 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1866, p. 265.
Platyceras {Ortkonychia) subplicatum Meek & Worthen, 1868.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois, vol.
Ill, p. 457, pi.
XIV, figs.
4a, 4b, 4c.
Shell small, depressed, obliquely conical ; anterior slope somewhat convex ; posterior and lateral slopes slightly concave or straight ; several large broad undefined plications extend from the apertural margin nearly two-thirds the distance to the aj^ex.
Aperture subcircular.
Horizon and locality.
Kinderhook beds : Richfield, Ohio.
This species is known only from natural casts.
The specimens exhibit well the muscular scars which are described as " obliquely elongated, subovate or sublunate, and vertically striated, placed a little above the middle of each side and connected by a linear band passing around behind."
Capulus cyrtolites (McChesney).
[Plate II, fig.
2.]
Ptatyceras cyrtolites McChesney, 1800.
Desc.
New Foss.
Pula;.
Rocks Western States, p. 71.
Platyceras cyrtolites Keyes, 1889.
Froc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Pliila., 1889, p. 288.
Capiiliis cyrtolites Keyes, 1890.
Am.
Geol., vol.
V. Shell small, slender, arched ; composed of about one volution ; dorsally subangular, with a broad flattened area on each side ; posteriorly somewhat plicate.
Apical portion small, incurved, sometimes enrolled or contiguous.
Aperture moderately large, subquadrangular; lip sharp, sinuous.
Surface marked only by strong undulating lines of growth, which are often somewhat imbricated.
Horizon and localities.
Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa ; and Calhoun county, Illinois.
This species appears to be genetically related to C acutirostris (Hall) from the Keokuk and eventually the two forms may prove identical.
C. cyrtolites is from the upper division of the Burlington limestone and differs very essentially from any known congeneric species from the same horizon.
Capulus biserialis (Hall).
Platyceras biserialis Hall, 1859.
Geol.
of Iowa, vol.
I, pt.
ii, Suppl., p. 90.
Platyceras biserialis Meek & Worthen, 1868.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois, vol.
Ill, p. 509. pi.
XV, figs.
3a, 3b.
Capulus biserialis Keyes, 1890.
Am.
Geol., vol.
V. Shell rather below medium size, somewhat ovate, subspiral, forming slightly more than one volution, regularly incurved.
Aperture broadly oval ; margin rather sharp, undulating, with a broad rounded sinus anteriorly.
The expanded anterior portion of the shell marked on each side by a longitudinal row of long, conspicuous, hollow spines, about six in number.
Surface smooth showing numerous fine, sinuous lines of growth.
Horizon and locality.
Burlington limestone : Quincy, Illinois.
A marked characteristic of this form and also of C. tribulosns (White) is that the tubular spines are arranged in longitudinal rows, while in the few other American spine-bearing Capuli there is no regularity in the distribution of the spinous process.
The spines are easily broken and hence are seldom preserved to their full length ; often they are scarcely noticeable.
Capulus latus (Keyes.)
Platyceraslahtin Keyes, 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc, vol XXV, p. 242, figs.
10, 11.
(Reprint., p.
14.)
Platyccras latum Keyes, 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Philadelphia, 1889, p. 290.
Capulus latus Keyes, 1890.
Am.
Geol., vol.
V. Shell large, depressed, foniiiiig about one and one-half volutions, very rapidly expanding from the apex to the aperture, l)ut enlarging transversely much more.
than dorso-ventrally ; posterior side comparatively very short.
Apex small, incurved, but free from the body of the shell and nearly in the same plane as the general curvature.
Aperture very large, campanulate, transversely elliptic ; lip attenuate and slightly sinuous.
Surface marked toward the aperture by a few small nearly obsolete folds, and by numerous sinuous lines of growth.
Horizon and locality.
Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa.
This species is from the white compact layers of the upper division of the Burlington beds.
The specimens like the majority of fossils from this stratum are usually more or less exfoliated.
Capulus obliquus (Keyes).
[Plate II, fig.
?>.]
Platyccras obliqimni Keyes, 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc, vol.
xxv, p. 241, figs.
12, 13.
(Reprint., p.
13.)
Platyceras obliqimm Keyes, 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 290 Capulus obliquus Keyes, 1890.
Am.
Geol., vol.
V. Shell of medium size, irregularly oblong, subspiral, forming one volution ; regularly enlarging, slightly more rapidly transversely than in the opposite direction, to the aperture.
Apex large, obtuse, ftir removed from the body of the sliell, which is broadly arcuate ; very noticeably oblique to the plane of general curvature in the body of the shell.
Aperture irregularly quadrangular in outline ; margin sharp and more or less sinuous.
Surface marked by several undefined longitudinal plications, which sometimes form longitudinal series of obscure nodes ; these are crossed by numerous sinuous, often subimbricated lines of growth.
Horizon and locality.
Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa.
This species is a transition between the so-called " Orthonychia" and " Platyceras" groups ; and is one of the few of this type occurring in the American Carbonic.
Capulus quinoyensis (McChesney).
[Plate II, fig.
9.]
Platvceras quincyense McChesney, 1861.
Desc.
New Foss.
Palte.
Rocks West.
States, p. 90.
Platyceras (juincyense McChesney, 1867.
Trans.
Chicago Acad.
Sci., vol.
I, p. 49, pi.
vi, figs.
6a, 6b.
Platyceras [Ortkonychia) cjuincyense Meek ^; Worthen, 1868.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois, vol.
Ill, p. 510, pi.
XV, figs.
5a, 5b.
Platyceras quincvense Keyes, 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 290.
Capiilus quincyoisis Keyes, 1890.
Am.
Geol., vol.
V. Shell of medium size, broadly conical, often more or le.ss elongated ; expanding very rapidly and regularly from the central or subcentral apex to the aperture.
Usually five broad, rounded ridges extend from near the apex to the aperture, which is consequently Biore or less prominently quinquelobate ; the ridges are not unfrequently further divided into two or more smaller folds.
Lip sharp, sinuous.
Surface marked by subimbricating lines of growth and also by numerous small, often undefined, longitudinal co.sta3 which do not appear in the cast.
Horizon and localities.
Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa ; and Quincy, Illinois.
The specimens described by ]\rcChesney and by Meek and Worthen were either exfoliated examples or internal casts ; and this is the condition in which the species is usually found.
Owing to the peculiar state of pre.servation the shells quickly crumble away in handling, leaving only the internal casts, but the distinctive quinquelobate character always renders them easily recognizable.
In the examples figured l)y McChesney and also by Meek and "Worthen the apices were wanting, but the individuals were not as imperfect as was supposed.
During the earlier periods of their growth many of the shells of C. quincyensis were very broad, but when attaining about one-third their maximum size the aperture abruptly became relatively smaller, leaving a sharp subangular ridge around the shell parallel to the apertural margin.
This abrupt decrease in the expansion of the shell impax'ts to the natural internal casts the appearance of an apical truncation or fracture.
In its attachment to paleozoic crinoids the onl}' forms with which C. quincyensis has thus far been found associated is Physetocvinus ventricosus (Hall), a species having a rather depressed hemispherical dome, in which the ventral opening has a subcentral location.
The dome plates are small and numerous and frequently studded with small prominent tubercles or subspinous processes, which impart to the gasteropod shell series of minute corrugations extending over each of the larger folds.
Capulus tribulosus (White).
[Plate II, figs.
4a, 4b.]
F/afyccnis trilnilosum White, 1883.
12th Ann.
Rep. U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Ter., pt.
I, p. 186, pi.
XLI, figs.
6a, 6b.
Platyceras trihulosiim Keyes, 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 290.
Capulus tribulosus Keyes, 1890.
Am.
Geol., vol.
V. Shell rather below medium size, subspiral, rather slendei', forming about one volution ; regularly expanding to the aperture.
Apex incurved, far removed from the body of the shell.
Aperture irregularly oval, usually more or less broadly lobed posteriorly ; lip sharp, irregular, with usually a deep sinus anteriorly.
Surface glabrate, but exhibiting numerous fine, closely arranged lines of growth ; also marked by three longitudinal series of long tubular spines, extending from the apertural margin about three-fourths the distance to the apex.
Of these spiniferous rows two are disposed laterally, one on each side and the third centrally and dorsally.
Horizon and locality.
Burlington limestone: Burlington, Iowa.
This is one of the few spiniferous species belonging to the genus Capulus ; and only two others of similar character occur in the American Carbonic rocks.
It appears to be closely allied to C. biserialis (Hall) and may eventually prove identical with that form, from which it apparently differs only in having three, instead of two, rows of spines.
Thus far it has been noted only in the upper division of the Burlington limestone, when it occurs in the thin sandy-clay partings, associated with delicate and beautifully preserved bryozoa.
The type specimen is not a characteristic representative of the species, being in several particulars quite abnormal.
Capulus acutirostris Hall.
Capulus acutirostris Hall, 1856.
Trans.
Albany Institute, vol.
IV, p. 31.
Capulus acutirostris Hall, 1858.
Geol.
of Iowa, vol.
I, pt, ii, p. 665, pi.
x.xiii figs, 14a, 14b.
Platyceras {Capulus) acutirostris McChesney, 1860.
Desc.
New False.
Foss West.
Slates, p. 71.
Platyceras uucuiii Meek & Woithen, 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila.
1866, p 264.
Platyceras uncuin Meek & Worthen.
1873.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois, vol.
V, p, 516, pi.
XVII, fig.
1.
Platyceras acuti1■ostris\\h\^.(^t\d,\S^'2.
Bui.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
I, p 67.
Platyceras acutirostris Hall, 1883.
Indiana Geol.
Rept.
for 1883, p. 370, pi XXXI, figs.
13-15.
Capulus acutirostris Keyes, 1890.
Am.
Geol., vol.
V. Shell below medium size, rather slender, strongly arcuate, forming from one to one and one-half volutions ; posterior side for some distance from the apertural margin nearly straight.
S[)ire laterally more or less compressed ; sometimes small and short, sometimes long, attenuate, simply incurved or enrolled.
Aperture oval, or sub-circular ; margin t
