THE CINCINNATI GROUP OF THE LOWER SILURIAN SERIES OF OHIO.
BY F. B. MEEK.
Full illustrations and descriptions of the fossils described in this paper are in course of preparation for the report of the Ohio Geological Survey now being prosecuted under the direction of Prof. J. S. Newberry the State geologist.
RADIATA.
ECHINODERMATA.
HETEROCRINUS EXIGUUS Meek.
Body small obconoidal or tapering from above to the column near which it becomes pentagonal in consequence of the flattened surface of each of the basal pieces.
Subbasal pieces obsolete or very minute.
Basal pieces subradials of some of moderate size about as wide as long pentagonal and almost perfectl' flat.
Left posterior ray bifurcating first on the fifth piece the first piece being comparatively large and irregularlj hexagonal in consequence of having a short sloping side on its upper right edge for the reception of one side of the first anal piece  the four succeeding pieces much narrower about as long as Avide and rounded and more or less constricted in the middle with expanded upper and lower ends.
Right posterior ray bifurcating first on the eighth piece the first piece being decidedly smaller than that of the left posterior ra pentagonal in form and slightly longer than wide  while the second is of the same breadth but shorter rounded on the dorsal side and irregularly pentagonal in form the fifth angle being formed by a short side on the left above for the reception of the first anal piece  succeeding pieces about as long as wide or slightly longer rounded and constricted in the middle and expanded at the ends.
Right anterior lateral ray bifurcating first on the sixth piece the first piece being distinctly larger than the others apparently a little longer than wide and subpentagonal in form  while those above are smaller and of the February 13 same form as the corresponding pieces of the other raj's described.
Other rays unknown.
Arms very long slender and bifurcating at least four times at irregular distances above the first divisions of the rajs  pieces of the lower divisions generally longer than wide rounded and constricted in the middle and expanded at the ends  while those of the smaller terminal divisions are usually from three to four or five times as long as wide and scarcely expanded at the ends.
Surface smooth.
Finnulse not seen.
First anal piece small about as long as wide and as usual resting between the superior sloping sides of the first radial on the left and the second on the right and bearing three or more others in direct succession above that doubtless form a part of the walls of the ventral extension.
Column small distinctly pentagonal near the base where it is composed of alternately thin and slightly thicker pieces.
Length of body to top of the larger radial pieces forming a part of its walls 0.14 inch breadth about 0.12 inch length of rays and arms above the bod' 1 inch  thickness of column near base about O.OT inch.
At the same time that I propose to name and describe this delicate little Crinoid as a new species I suspect that it may not be distinct from H. exilis of Hall which has not yet been illustrated and has unfortunately been only briefly described.
If Prof. Hall's description is strictly accurate however in several important characters the form under consideration must be clearly distinct as he states that the posterior lateral rays of H. exilis bifurcate on the second pieces and the anterior lateral on the fourth while in the form here described one of the posterior lateral ras bifurcates first on the Jifth piece and the other on the eighth and in the only one of its anterior lateral rays seen the first division takes place on the sixth or seventh piece.
He also says that the arms of H. exilis bifurcate once or twice while in our t'pe they bifurcate at least four times above the primary division of each ray.
Again he describes the bod'' plates of if.
exilis as having the general curve of the body but in our tj'pe the subradial plates are so flattened as to impart a pentagonal form to the lower part of the bod'.
This species will be at once distinguished from H. simplex by its frequently bifurcating arms and other wellmarked characters.
From H. heterodactylus which also has its arms several times 18T2.
PART TIL 21 divided it will be readily distinguished by its very differently formed body its more slender and more frequently divided as well as longer arms and its more slender column.
Locality and position.
 Cincinnati group 100 feet below tops of hills at Cincinnati Ohio.
Mr. Dyer's collection.
HETEEOCRINUS SUBCRASSUS M. k W. Heterocrinns saber assus Meek  Wortheu 1865.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliilad. p. 145 Illinois Report vol.
III. p. 325 pi.
4 fig.
5 a b c d. Heterocrinus locrinus polyxo Hall 1866.
Descriptions of some new species of Crinoidea and other fossils from the Silurian Strata etc. p. 5  dated Nov. 1866.
A careful comparison shows the proposed species H. pohjxo Hall 1866 to be in all respects identical with H. subcrassus M.  W. 1865.
Prof. Hall places it under a subgenus locrinus and if there be sufficient grounds for so doing the name of the species when written in full would be Heterocrinus locrinus subcrassus.
POTERIOCRINITES DENDEOCRINUS DYERI Meek.
Body small obconic or tapering regularly to the column from above.
Basal pieces longer than wide the greatest breadth being across between the superior lateral angles  all pentagonal.
Subradial pieces a little longer than the basals longer than wide andr excepting the one on the anal side which is largest and heptagonal all hexagonal.
First radials of about the size of the subradials but proportionally broader being a little wideithan long with a general pentagonal outline though all excepting the one on the right of the anal series have the superior lateral angles a little truncated  while the second piece in that ray which as is usual in the group corresponds to the first in the other rays also has these angles truncated.
Succeeding radials in all the rays much narrower about as long as wide or slightly longer and numbering from five to six or seven pieces below the first bifurcation.
Arms remarkably long and slender laterally compressed more or less angular on the dorsal side and giving ofl' alternately on opposite sides at distant intervals above the first bifurcation of each ra from three to four or more scarcely diverging divisions that are slightly more slender than the arms from which February 13 they spring and sometimes tliemselves bifurcate once or twice divisions composed of pieces about as long as wide.
First anal piece nearly as large as one of the smaller subradials resting on the superior truncated edge of the largest heptagonal subradial between the first radial on the left and the first and second on the right while it supports others above that form the base of the ventral extension.
Interradial pieces with the lowest piece of the ventral part resting between the truncated superiorlateral angles of the first primarjradials so as to appear as minute interradials.
Surface without costceor sculpturing of any kind.
Yentral extension ver' long or nearly or quite equalling the length of the arms and as wide as the bod below  composed of the usual small hexagonal plates apparently without costse and separated by punctured sutures.
Column slender slightly tapering downward just below the base near which it is more or less pentagonal and composed of short alternatel thicker and exceedingly thin segments.
Farther down it becomes nearly or quite cylindrical and composed of more uniform very short pieces with a very small nearly or quite round perforation.
Length of body from the lower end of base to the top of first primary radials 0.24 inch breadth of do. at top 0.16 inch length of rays from top of body to first bifurcation 0.20 inch  length of arms above this bifurcation 2.30 inches  diameter of column 0.04 to 0.05 inch.
This delicate little species seems to agree exactly in structure as well as in physiognoni with Dendroainus excepting that it appears to have the small pieces forming the lower part of its ventral extension above the first anal piece and those seen in the interradial spaces above the large first radials that form a part of the walls of the body connecting laterally with the succeeding smaller radials nearly or quite up to the first bifurcation.
This arrangement if it really exists would make these smaller primary radials above the body proper as it were a part of the walls of the body or ventral extension so that the rays would only become free at the first bifurcation.
The specimens seen are not in such condition as to remove all doubts on this point but in some conditions these little pieces between the rays give that part of the fossil somewhat the appearance of a Glyptocrinus.
The presence of welldeveloped subradials and a long ventral extension of the 1872.
body to say nothing of other differences remove it however at once from that genus as well as from Mariacrinus from which latter it also differs materially in the structure of its arms and in other important characters.
I suspect that it may be found to present sufficiently marked differences in this apparent fusing of the rays as it were into the walls of the body up to the first bifurcation to entitle it to rank as the t3qe of a new group  but without better specimens for study and examination I prefer to refer it provisionally to Dendrocrinus which can scarcely be regarded as more than subgenerically distinct from Poteriocrinites.
In general appearance it seems to resemble most nearly Dendrocrinus acutidactylus and D. gregarius of Billings.
It differs from the first however in having a more slender body with proportionally longer arms much less diverging at the bifurcations as well as in having the two branches at each division unequal.
From the latter species it also differs in the nature of its arms as well as in having its column composed of very short pieces not presenting a beadlike appearance.
Locality and position.
 Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian in the lowest beds seen at Cincinnati Ohio.
The survey is under obligations to Mr. C. B. Der of Cincinnati for the use of the only known specimens of this species.
POTERIOCEINITES DENDROCRINUS CINCINNATIENSIS Meek.
Body of about median size obconic or tapering to the column from above nearly or quite as wide at the top of the first radials as the height to the same.
Base forming a rather rapidly expanding cup nearly twice as wide as high.
Basal pieces of moderate size wider than high pentagonal in form and each provided with a minute notch at the middle of the under side corresponding to a furrow extending up each side of the column.
Subradial pieces about twice as large as the basals as wide as long or slightly wider all hexagonal excepting the one on the anal side which is heptagonal and a little larger than the others.
First radial piece in the ray on the right of the anal series a little smaller than the subradials and pentagonal in form supporting on its upper truncated edge a rather shorter piece corresponding to the slightly larger first radials in the other rays and like the latter rounded on the outer side with a pentagonal outline and a somewhat narrowed facet above for the reception of the first free February 13 raclials.
Succeediug or free radials distinctly narrower than those forming a part of the walls of the body rounded on the dorsal side and in the two posterior latei'al rays all shorter than wide while the fifth one in eacli of these rays other rays unknown is an axillary piece supporting two arms.
First anal piece nearly as large as the subradial upon the upper side of which it rests  connecting on the left with the first radial piece and on the right with the first and second radials  while it supports others above forming the base of the ventral extension which is composed of small pieces strengthened by radiating ribs.
Arms of the two posterior rays rounded composed of pieces slightly wider than long and each bifurcating at least twice and perhaps oftener at unequal distances above their origin on the last primary radial.
Column of only moderate size for an inch or so below the base where it is very distinctly pentagonal the angles being a little rounded with a rather deep furrow between on each side composed of short pieces which near the base seem to alternate with much thinner ones.
Length of body 0.28 inch  breadth of same 0.26 inch  thickness of column at its junction with the body 0.09 inch breadth of free rays below the first bifurcation O.OT inch.
So far as the specimens afibrd the means of making a comparison this species would seem to be nearly related to Poteriocrinus gracilis of Hall described in the first vol.
of Palaeontology of N.
Y. p. 84.
His diagram and figure however do not show whether that species has two of the primary radials of the right posterior ray included as a part of the walls of the body as in Denclrocrinus or whether it has more properly the structure of Homocrinus.
He represents the first anal piece however proportionally much smaller than it is in our crinoid while to the right and partly beneath the anal piece he shows in his diagram a small piece that seems to occupy the position and relations to other parts of the subanal in true typical Poteriocrnites His speci1 Prof. Hall also ranges it under Poteriocrinus in his corrected list of the New York Fossils published in 1859 after he had proposed the genera Homocrimis and Dendrocrinus and included this form in the former group in 1852  from which we may infer that his type has more recently been found to possess the structure of Poteriocrinites.
In that case it would of course 1872.
men had only a segment or two of the column attached  but an end view of it in his diagram represents it as being rounds while in the form under consideration it is very distinctly pentagonal.
As he does not nay that it differs in the form of the column from his P. alteyniatus which has a decidedl round column in pointing out the distinctions between the two I also infer that it is round in both.
In addition to this Poteriocrinites gracilis of Hall is stated by him to be found only at the base of the Trenton limestone while our crinoid is only known to occur in the middle part of the Cincinnati group.
From these facts and from the usual very restricted vertical range of the species of Crinoidea I infer that our Cincinnati form is specificall' distinct from the Iew York species.
Locality and position.
 One hundred feet below tops of hills at Cincinnati Ohio.
Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian.
Mr. C. B. Dyer's collection.
POTERIOCRINUS DENDROCRINUS POLYDACTYLUS Shumard sp..
nomocrinus polydactylus Shumard 18G7.
Trans.
Acad.
St. Louis vol.
I. p. 78 pi.
I. fig.
6.
An examination of good specimens of this species shows that it has the structure of the bod' seen in Dendrocrinus and that it is related to D. Jeivettii of Billings more nearl than to any other of the species known to the writer.
This is a ratlier common species in the upper part of the Cincinnati group at Richmond Indiana.
GLYPTOCRINUS DYERI Meek.
Body globularsubturbinate being wider than high with sides rounding under to the base.
Subbasal pieces obsolete or if present not exposed externally.
Basal pieces subradials of some very small and projecting as a thin rim below much wider than differ specifically from our crinoid  but if either a Poteriocrinites proper or a Dendrocrinus if we view the latter as only a subgenus oi Poteriocrinites as Prof. Hall has since done in describing other species then the name P. gracilis could not stand for the New York fossil because Prof. McCoy had used that specific name for a species of this genus from the Carboniferous rocks in 1844.
For this reason D'Orbigny proposed the name P. subgracilis for the New York species which will have to be retained if it belongs to any mere section of that genus.
February 13 high and presenting a trigonal general outline though the lateral angles are doubtless minutely truncated.
First radial pieces of moderate size heptagonal in form and wider than long second and third a little smaller the second being hexagonal and the third pentagonal and supporting on its superior sloping sides the first divisions of the rays.
Secpndaiy radial or supraradial series each composed of from eight to eleven pieces rapidly diminishing in length upward to the second bifurcation or commencement of the arms just below which a few of the smaller pieces seem to be free and bear pinnulfe on their inner sides farther down the second and fourth secondary radials of each ray give off alternately on each side small divisions that do not become free but are soldered into the interradial walls though they can be traced to the summit of the body where they merely give origin to pinnules.
Anal area a little wider than the interradial areas.
First anal plate of about the same size as the first radials hexagonal in form and supporting in the next range three pieces arranged with the middle one higher than the others while above these three smaller pieces can be seen arranged in the same way in the third range and three to four or five in the fourth which is as far up as they can be traced.
The middle plates of this series form a direct vertical row that have a rather prominent mesial rounded ridge extending all the way up from the middle of the lowest piece of about the same size as those passing up the primary and secondary radial series while the other plates on each side and other parts of the lowest pieces are ornamented with radiating costse of smaller size like those on the interradial pieces.
Interradial areas not excavated below but becoming moderately concave above  first interradial pieces of about the size of the second primary radials hexagonal in form and supporting two other somewhat smaller pieces in tlie next range that bear between their superior sloping sides a fourth smaller piece while above these there are two pieces in the next range that connect with the pieces of the little lateral divisions of the secondary radials and perhaps some other small intercalated pieces filling the upper part of the interradial areas.
Axillary areas flat and each occupied below by a hexagonal or heptagonal piece of about the size of the second piece of each 1872.
secondary radial while the space above is occupied by several much smaller pieces.
Arms four to each ray rounded on the dorsal sides slender of moderate length very gradually tapering simple and composed of ver3'' short slightly wedgeformed pieces each of which bears a pinnule at its larger inner lateral end pinnules slender rather closely arranged deeply furrowed on the inner side and apparently composed of rather long joints.
Surface of body plates all ornamented with distinct radiating costae starting from the centre of each piece and passing one to each of its sides so as to connect with others on each contiguous piece  of these costoe those passing up the middle of each of the radial series are a little larger and more prominent than those of the interradial plates while they bifurcate with the rays so as to send a division up each of the secondary radial series toward the upper part of which they become more prominent and rounded beins there of about the size of the free arms.
Column unknown.
Height of body 0.60 inch breadth about 0.68 inch length of arms 1.05 inch thickness of same 0.05 inch number of joints in a space of 0.10 inch near the base eight.
This very beautiful species reminds one by its sculpturing of the common typical species G. decadactiJus from which however it may be at once distinguished by its proportionally broader and shorter body with sides rounding regularly under to the column instead of being obconical.
It also has proportionally more slender arms and differs materially in having in each secondary radial series from nine to eleven pieces between the first bifurcation of each ray and the arm bases instead of only two.
In the form of its body it agrees more nearly with G. ornatus of Billings but it differs materially from tliat species in having twenty arms instead of only ten as well as in less important details.
The specific name is given in honor of Mr. C. B. Dyer of Cincinnati Ohio to whom I am indebted for the use of the very fine specimens from which the description was made out.
Locality and position.
 Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian 100 feet below tops of hills at Cincinnati Ohio.
GLYPTOCRINUS DYERI var.
SUBGLOBOSTJS Meek.
There is in Mr. Dyer's collection a specimen showing the whole of the anal side of the body all the way up and more or less of February 13 six of the arms that seems to agree exactly in structure ornamentation and form with the last excepting that its body is not quite so rounded below and it has a more robust appearance in consequence of having the ridges up the radial and secondary radial series particularly the latter as well as that up the middle row of the anal plates rather decidedly stouter and more prominent.
Its arms are also proportionally stouter and composed of shorter pieces.
This may be specificall distinct from the last  but with the present means of comparison I prefer to range it provisionally as a variety of the same under the name Glyptocrinus Dyeri var.
subglobosus.
Locality and position.
 Same as last.
MOLLUSCA.
POLYZOA.
 PTILODICTYA STICTOPORA SHAFFERI Meek.
Polyzoum small and delicate consisting of slender compressed divisions that give off on each side rather closely arranged regularly alternating lateral branches of the same breadth as the main stems from which they diverge at an angle of about forty degrees  lateral branches in the same way giving off on each side very short lobelike alternating projections  lateral margins of all parts very narrow sharp and minutely striated longitudinally in wellpreserved specimens  pores apparently without raised margins more or less oval longitudinally alternately disposed in longitudinal and oblique rows so as to present a quincuncial arrangement the number of longitudinal rows vaiying from five to about seven in the breadth of a stem or branch  spaces between the pores measuring transversely to the stems and their divisions about equal to the breadth of the pores but greater measuring in the direction of the oblique and longitudinal rows all the interspaces ornamented in perfectly preserved specimens by very minute more or less waved or flexuous strife.
Size of entire polyzoum unknown  breadth of stems and branches 0.05 inch  number of pores in 0.05 inch measuring in the direction of the oblique rows about 4 to 6 and in the same space measuring longitudinally from 3 to 4.
1872.
This very delicate little form will be readily distinguished from the other known Silurian species b' its small size and peculiar plumose mode of growth and particularl' by its very minute strijB between the pores.
Sfictopora raripora Hall from the Clinton group of New York is as delicate a form but differs materially in its mode of growth and particularly in its very much less numerous pores.
The specific name is given in honor of Mr. D. H. Shaffer of Cincinnati Ohio to whom I am indebted for the use of a very fine specimen of it  I also have good specimens from Mr. Dyer's collection.
Locality and position.
 Toward the lower part of the Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian at Cincinnati Ohio.
BRACHIOPODA.
RETZIA TREMATOSPIRA GRANTJLIFERA Meek.
Shell transversely oval the length being about fourfifths the breadth moderately convex the convexity of the two valves being very nearly equal  lateral margins rather narrowly rounded in outline  front and anterior lateral margins broadly rounded or perhaps the former sometimes straight or slightly sinuous in outline in the middle  cardinal margin nearly straight on each side and sloping at an angle of about 140' from the beaks toward the lateral extremities.
Dorsal valve nearly evenly convex its greatest prominence being perhaps slightly behind the middle  provided with about tliirteen simple angular radiating plications or costse five of which on the middle are smaller than the others the middle one being smallest and not continued to the beak and form together a very low flattened mesial elevation scarcely rising above the general convexity  beak rather strongly incurved.
Ventral valve of much the same form as the other excepting that its beak is somewhat more prominent perforated and incurved upon that of the other valve  while two of the middle costse are much smaller than the others and the first one on each side of these is intermediate in size between the smallest central ones and the largest on the lateral slopes  these four ' The immediate point of the beak of the ventral valve seems to be slightly broken in the specimen though it has the appearance of having been naturally perforated before receiving the slightest injury.
February 13 smaller ones being a little depressed so as to form a sliallow mesial sinus that is not continued to the beak.
Crossing all of these plications of both valves are numerous fine lines of growth  while the entire surface as seen under a magnifier is occupied by minute projecting points like grains of sand and between these a higher magnifying power shows the whole surface to be very minutel' and regularly punctate.
Length 0.37 inch  breadth 0.50 inch  convexity 0.21 inch.
Until the distinctions between the genus Befzia and the proposed genus Trematospira if any exist are better defined and the interior of the species here described can be determined it is not possible to say to which of these groups it most properly belongs.
Specifically however it seems to be closely allied to Trematospira gibbosa of Hall from tlie Hamilton group.
Yet it differs not only in having two to three more plications on each side but also in having five instead of three a little raised to form the mesial fold of the dorsal valve the middle one being also much smaller and four depressed to form the mesial sinus the middle two being much smaller than the others.
It so nearly resembles the New York form however that I should almost be inclined to suspect that it might be only a variety of the same species if it were not found at a so much lower horizon.
It must be very rare as I have only heard of the single typical specimen being found.
Locality and jJositio72.
 Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian from the basal beds at Cincinnati Ohio.
Mr. Dyer's collection.
LAMELLIBRANCHIATA.
AMBONYCHIA MEGAPTERA ALATA Meek.
Megapteraa Casei James 1871.
Cat.
Fossils of Cincmnati Group not Meek and Worthen.
Shell attaining a moderately large size subtrigonal in general outline compressed posterodorsall and more convex in the um' In first proposing the name Megaptera for tliese great winged species in 1866 Mr. Worthen and the writer were not aw'are that this name had been previously used by Dr. Gray for a genus of Whales.
Naturalists do not agree in regard to the propriety of retaining the same name for different genera or subgenera in such cases.
Where the groups belong to the same 1812.
bonal and anterocentral regions  umbonal slopes ranging at an angle of about fifty degrees below the hinge line and broadly rounded hinge line straight very nearly or quite equalling the greatest anteroposterior diameter of the valves and ranging nearly at right angles to the anterior side of the same  posterior alation very large not separated from the swell of the umbonal and central regions by any defined sulcus sliglitly rounded at its immediate extremity above posterior margin faintly sinuous for a little below its intersection with the hinge margin above thence sloping forward and downward and finally rounding into the regularly rounded base  anterior side more or less concave and nearly vertical above but rounding regularly into the base below  beaks terminal rather pointed rising little above the hinge line and directed a little obliquel3' upward and forward with more or less inward curvature.
Surface ornamented by about twentyfour to twentyeight simple strong radiating costie to each valve that are nearly equal in breadth to the furrows between  those on the central portions of the valves passing nearly straight from the beaks obliquely to the posterior basal margins those on the anterior side curving more or less forward below and those near the cardinal margin curving a little upward behind.
Crossing all of these cost8eand the furrows between are numerous fine crowded lines and at regular distant intervals a few strongly defined imbricating marks of growth that curve parallel to the basal and posterior margins.
Height 2.30 inches  breadth 2.20 inches convexity about 0.80 inch.
This species was referred b Mr. James with a mark of doubt to Megaptera Casei of Meek and Worthen  but after a comparison of these shells I can find no reason for doubting that they class nearly all agreo that only the name first given can stand  but where they belong to different classes or subkingdoms some would retniu both names while others would change the later name even where one of the genera belongs to a diiferent class subkingdom or kingdom of nature.
If it should be thought desirable to substitute another name for this group as typified by 31.
Casei and the species here described I Avould propose to call it Opisthoptera.
As yet very little is known in regard to the hinge of these shells  and consequently we have not the means of determining whether they should be ranged as a subgenus under AmhonyrJiia or as a distinct genus though I at present incline to the former opinion.
February 13 1 are really distinct specificallj the 31.
Casei being marked by very numerous alternating larger and smaller radiating strife while M. alata is ornamented with large strong radiating ribs.
M. Casei also differs in having its unibonal slopes distinctl angular instead of broadly and evenly rounded as in the species under consideration  while its ventral margin is angular in outline at the termination of the umbonal ridge instead of being rounded.
Its marks of growth also show that the extremity of its wing was ratlier acutely pointed instead of being a little rounded.
Locality and position.
 Clinton County Ohio in upper part of the Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian.
Mr. James's collection.
MEGAMBONIA JAMESI Meek.
Megambonia
Spinneri
James 1871.
Cat.
Fossils Cincinnati Group p. 12.
Not if.
Spinneri Hall.
Shell attaining a rather large size a little obliquely subovate in general form rather convex the most gibbous part being somewhat above and in front of the middle more or less abruptly cuneate posteriorly and below  basal outline regularly rounded  posterior margin rounding into the base and ascending with a convex curve and forward inclination to the posterior extremity of the hinge which is not in the slightest degree alate  anterior margin rounding into the base below and slightly sinuous under the lobelike protuberance or rudimentary wing above which is convex slightly more prominent than the margin below and defined from the swell of the umbonal regions on each side by an oblique sulcus extending to the hinge margin in front of each beak  hinge equalling about twothirds the anteroposterior diameter of the valves  beaks rather prominent or rising distinctly above the hinge line but slightly oblique and distinctly incurved umbonal slopes broadly rounded longer axis of the valves moderately oblique to the hinge line.
Surface ornamented by very regular rounded simple and depressed radiating costje a little wider than the furrows between and numbering about five in a space of 0.30 inch near the middle of the lower margin.
Height about 2.05 inches  anteroposterior diameter 2.1 6 inches convexity 1.50 inch.
The only specimen of this species I have seen is a cast of the exterior with portions of the ventral and anterior ventral mar18t2.
gins broken awa3 The beak of its right valve projects rather decidedly above that of the left but I think this is due to accidental displacement of the valves rather than to any inequality in their size.
It shows distinct indications of a welldefined moderately wide cardinal area widest under the beaks and narrowing to the extremities of the hinge.
Mr. James referred this species in his list of the Cincinnati fossils with a mark of doubt to the Lower Helderberg species 31.
Sinnneri of Hall.
But in addition to the rather widely different oeoloofical horizons from which these two shells were obtaiued they seem to me to ditfer so materially in form as to be clearly distinct species even if similarly marked while the typical specimen of M. Spinneri shows no traces of the regular radiating costre seen on the species here described.
It is true that the specimen of that species figured is an internal cast and ours a cast of the exterior which might account for the difference of surface characters but this would not produce the degree of difterence in form obliquity and general physiognomy.
To me it appears to be much more nearly like the typical species M. carcliiformis from the New York Upper Helderberg limestone though clearly distinct in having much larger costse as well as a wider and more defined cardinal area.
The group Ifegambonia of Hall 1859 seems so far as 3et known scared' more than subgenerically distinct from the typical forms of Gyp7'icardifes  and Mr. Billings thinks it exacth' agrees with the group for which he proposed the name Va7iixemia in 1855 and placed as a subgenus under his genus Cyrtodonta 1858 a species of which is the type of Conrad's Gypricai'dites ISil.
If the name Vanuxeniia should be retained for the type under consideration and that group placed as a subgenus then the name of our fossil when written in full would be Gypricardites Vanuxemia Jamesi  but if Megamhonia is distinct from Vanuxemia and a subgenus under Gypricardites then its full name would be Gypriccudites Megamhonia Jamesi.
Locality and position.
 Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian at Cincinnati Ohio about 350 feet above lowwater mark of the Ohio.
Collection of Mr. U. P. James's in honor of whom the species is named.
February 13 SEDGWICKIA
FRAGILIS Meek.
Shell rather small apparentl' very thin loiigitiulinally oblong or siiboval rather distinctly convex along the umbonal slopes from the beaks toward the posterior basal margin and down near the anterior side while just under the beaks a rather strongly marked impression descends widening and deepening as it approaches the base basal margin subparallel in its general outline to the dorsal but diverging more or less posteriorly where it is most prominent and distinctly sinuons toward the front poste.
rior margin wider than the anterior and more or less truncated  anterior extremit'' ver' short and rounded or somewhat truncated  hinge line straight and shorter tlian the entire length of the valves apparently very slightly inflected behind the beaks which are raised a little above the cardinal margin incurved contiguous flattened on the outer sides and placed near the anterior end with a slight forward inclination.
Surface ornamented with moderately distinct lines and irregular minute wrinkles of growth.
The only specimens of this species yet known to me are too imperfect to afford exact measurement though they seem to have been when entire and undistorted about 0.90 inch in length 0.t3 inch in height and 0.40 inch in convexity.
They present some appearance of having been gaping behind and in the anterior ventral region.
One specimen looks as if it had been truncated with a backward obliquity from below upward behind but this may be due to distortion.
I am far from being satisfied that this shell is congeneric with the forms for which Prof. McCoy proposed the name Sedgivickia as nothing can be determined from the specimens yet known in regard to its hinge and muscular and pallial impressions.
Possibl it would be nearer right to call it ModiolopaiH fragilis but there is something in its physiognomy that suggests affinities to Carboniferous types referred to Sedgwickia and Allorisma.
Locality and position.
 Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian at about 350 feet above lowwater mark of the Ohio River at Cincinnati Ohio.
Mr. U. P. James's collection.
1872.
SEDGWICKIA
COMPRESSA Meek.
Anatina simiata James 1871.
Catalogue Fossils Cincinnati Group p. 12.
Not Anatina
simiata Hall.
Shell longitudinally oval compressed about onefourth longer than high cuneate posteriori and more convex in the central and anterior regions with a slight concavity descending from the beak to the base of each valve  posterior margin regularly rounded  base straight and parallel to the cardinal margin in the middle and rounding up to the anterior and posterior margins anterior side short rounded or somewhat truncated but apparently most prominent below  hinge line shorter than the valves straight behind the beaks but rounding into the posterior margin at the extremit erect behind with some appearance of a narrow space for an external ligament farther forward  beaks about onefourth the length of the valves from the anterior margin raised a little above the cardinal margin nearly contiguous but not much incurved.
Surface of a cast that seems to be a little weathered or smoothed by attrition showing obscure marks of growth.
Length 0.77 inch height 0.59 inch convexity 0.29 inch.
.
I have only seen a single specimen of this species  and as it is a mere cast not showing clearly even the surface markings little can be said in regard to its affinities.
I am even left in some doubts whether its shorter side may not be the posterior instead of the anterior as there is some appearance about the points of the beaks of their being rather directed toward the longer than toward the shorter side.
The appearance however of a narrow space along the cardinal margin on the longer side as if for an external ligament seems to indicate that this is the posterior.
The margins of the valves on the anterior
shorter side are a little defective above in the specimen so as to leave room for some doubts whether it was regularly rounded in outline or not.
Although the specimens of the lastdescribed species are much distorted it is evident I think that they are quite distinct from this as it would seem impossible to make this shell assume the shape and convexit'of the last by any conceivable degree of distortion.
Mr. James referred this species in his list to the Upper Silurian form Anatinaf simiata Hall which it resembles in formStill it seems to me to differ too much in its more elevated beaks February 13 shorter anterior and straighter basal outline to be referred to that species even if found in rocks of the same age while the rather wide interval between the horizons at which the two forms occur renders it still more improbable that the belong to the same species.
It is extremely difficult to arrive at correct conclusions in re.
gard to the generic affinities of such shells from the stud of mere casts and it is therefore only provisional
 that I have referred this and the lastdescribed species to the genus Sedgivickia.
We may rest quite well assured however that paloeozoic forms of the kind cannot be properly referred to the existing genus Anatina.
Locality and position Same as last.
Mr. James's collection.
SEDGWICKIA GRAMMYSIA
NEGLECTA Meek.
Shell transversely ovate about onethird longer than high rather distinctly compressed most convex and most elevated in the central and umbonal regions and compressedcuneate behind  anterior margin rounding from the lower end of the lunule into the base which forms a nearly semioval curve its most prominent part being near the middle  cardinal margin apparently straight and declining posteriorly from the beaks  posterior margin rather narrowly rounded  beaks moderately prominent and scarcely onethird the length of the valves from the anterior margin.
Surface ornamented with regular distinct but not very prominent concentric costffi tliat become suddenh' obsolete on the posterior third of the valves.
Lunule narrow but sharply defined.
Length about 1.04 inch height 0.67 inch convexity about 0.35 inch.
The only specimen of this species I have seen is an external cast of the right valve which has evidently been to some extent accidentally compressed in the region of the beak but the shell was certainly never ver' convex.
It has almost exactly the general aspect and kind of ornamentation seen in the t3'pical forms of Sedgivickia a group which since it was first proposed bj' Prof. McCoy has been included bj him in his genus Leptodomus which seems to me to have been originally founded on a very distinct type.
Our shell also resembles.
rather closely some forms apparently 1872.
PART TIL 22 falling into the genus Grammysia.
That is some of the species presenting the aspect of that genus excepting that the want the characteristic oblique ridge of the typical species.
Until other specimens can be examined and more is known in regard to the hinges of Grammysia and Sedgwickia as well as that of the shell under consideration its generic relations cannot be satisfactorily determined.
Locality and position.
 Upper part of the Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian in Clinton County Ohio.
Mr. James's collection.
DOLABEA
CARINATA Meek.
Shell small rhombiccordate very convex along the oblique umbonal slopes posterior margin apparently obliquely truncated posterior basal extremity more or less angular in outline  basal margin rounding and ascending obliquely forward from the posterior basal angle  anterior side extremely short or with its margin descending and curving backward into the base from immediately in front of the beaks  hinge line short and a little inflected so as to form a kind of small area or escutcheon behind the beaks beaks prominent rather oblique nearly terminal strongly incurved or subspiral and distinctly compressed anteroposteriorly so as to be sharply keeled on top the keel being continued as a less angular umbonal ridge backward and downward to the posterior basal extremity flanks in front of the umbonal ridge evenly convex while the space above and behind it near the beaks is somewhat concave.
Surface only showing obscure traces of lines of growth.
Hinge and interior unknown.
Length measuring obliquely from the posterior basal angle to the most prominent part of the umbonal keels 0.65 inch  anteroposterior diameter measui'ing parallel to the hinge line the specimen being defective behind 0.40 inch  convexity of the united valves 0.50 inch length of hinge about 0.30 inch.
The only specimen of this species I have seen has lost by erosion some portions of the posterior margin so as to leave doubts in regard to its exact outline though it has the apiearance of having been when entire more or less truncated behind.
The most remarkable features of the species are its prominent subspiral and very strongly carinated beaks short hinge and nearly obsolete anterior side.
Its front margins seem to have been a March 19 little gaping and the posterior side maj'have been more or less so though the specimen is not in a condition to show whether this was the case or not.
Although I refer this shell for the present provisionally to Dolahra of McCoy I really have very little idea that it properly belongs to that genus as typified by Cucullaea angustata of Phillips to which I have in some other cases referred similar shells the generic relations of which could not be determined.
On the contrary I strongly suspect that it will hereafter be found necessary to establish a new genus for such forms when specimens showing the hinge can be examined.
If so I would propose for the group the name Bhxjnchoirojns in allusion to the sharply carinated character of the beaks in the typical form now under consideration.
The group whatever name may be retained for it evidently includes Dolahra
Sterling ensia of Meek and Worthen.
Specifically the form under consideration will be distinguished from Z.
Sterlingensis by its much smaller size and more spiral and much more sharply keeled beaks as well as by its shorter anterior margin.
It must be ver rare as I have only seen among all the collections the single tj'pical specimen.
Locality and position.
 Cincinnati group about 175 feet below tops of hills at Cincinnati Ohio.
Mr. Dyer's collection.
CARDIOMORPHA OBLIQU ATA Meek.
Shell small rhombiccordate very convex higher than long  posterior margin sloping rather abruptly and subtruncate or a little convex in outline from the posterior extremity'' of the hinge to the posterior basal extremity which is more or less angular or narrowly rounded  basal margin short nearly straight or a little convex from the posterior basal extremity to the front  anterior margin short or truncated from immediately in front of the beaks obliquely downward and backward to the base which it joins at an obtuse slightly rounded angle  binge line very short ranging at an angle of about fifty degrees to the umbonal axis and apparently having its margins a little inflected behind the beaks beaks very prominent oblique nearly or quite terminal and strongly incurved  posterior umbonal slopes subangular near the points of the beaks but becoming rounded below while the dorsal region between this and the hinge is a little concave anterior umbonal slopes forming a kind of ridge that extends at 1872.
something less than a right angle to the hinge to the anterior basal margin the anterior side thus circumscribed being somewhat flattened and as seen from the front presenting a cordate outline.
Surface ornamented with small very regular simple concentric costa that seem to be obsolete on the anterior and posterior portions of the valves.
Hinge and interior unknown.
Length parallel to the cardinal margin about 0.45 inch height at right angles to hinge to the tops of the beaks about 0.45 inch length measuring from the points of the beaks obliquely to the posterior basal extremity 0.57 inch  convexitj 0.39 inch I have referred this shell provisionally to Cardio'mor2oha rather because it seems to present at least as many external points of resemblance to some species of that genus as to any known palaeozoic group than from any strong impression that it reall belongs to the same.
In some respects its general physiognomy suggests affinities to the group of secondary shells for which Prof. Agassiz proposed the name Ceromya though I do not think it would fall into that genus.
When all of its characters can be determined it will probabl' be found to belong to an undescribed genus.
If so I would propose for the group the name Ceromyopsis from its resemblance to some species of Ceromya.
Although presenting some points of resemblance to the lastdescribed species this shell majbe distinguished at a glance not only by its small distinct concentric costje but by its much less sharply carinated beaks and more rounded posterior umbonal slopes as well as by its flattened anterior side this flattening imparts a subangular character to its anterior umbonal slopes not seen in the last.
Locality and 2Wsition.
 Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian in same bed as the last at Cincinnati Ohio.
Mr. Dj'er's collection.
GASTEROPODA.
MACROCHEILUS KLIPPARTI Meek.
Shell attaining a large size elongatefusiform the length being sometimes from two and a half to three times the breadth  spire pointed at the apex forming about half the entire length with its lateral slopes concave above and convex below  volutions six to eight or nine the upper five or six being very compactl3' coiled and forming comparatively but a small part of the entire shell March 19 I while those below suddenly increase in size much more rapidly than the others particularly in the direction of the longer axis of the shell and form most of its bulk these laroer turns in laroe adult examples sometimes assuming together a subcylindrical outline  the last or body whorl comparativel3 long
subcylindrical or more or less oval and somewhat produced below suture moderately distinct almost transverse between the smaller upper turns but becoming decidedly' more oblique below aperture comparatively small and narrow apparently' snbrhombic  inner lip much thickened all the way up  columella twisted so as to form a single prominent fold below the middle of the aperture.
Surface nearly smooth or onlshowing verjobscure lines of growth.
Outer lip unknown.
Length of one of the largest most elongated specimens 2.23 inches  breadth O.St inch  length of aperture about 1 inch.
This fine species most nearljresembles M. Nevoherryioi Stevens but may be readily distinguished b' its form the slopes of the upper part of its spire being distinctly concave and the lower part convex in outline instead of being evenly' and moderately convex all the way down.
This peculiarity is caused by the sudden enlargement of the middle and lower volutions and the greater obliquity of their spiral curve  while in M. Neiuherryi the volutions increase in size regularly and have the same uniform spiral curve from the apex throughout the whole length of the spire.
Young examples of the form under consideration are proportionatel shorter the elongation being to a considerable extent produced by the obliquity and prolongation of the last two volutions.
These less elongated younger shells however will be distinguished from M. Newherryi by the concave slopes of their spires and the greater proportional breadth of their body volutions.
This is also a larger and more robust species than M. Newherryi.
As none of the specimens yet seen have the outer lip and lower part of the aperture entire the form of the aperture cannot be made out and there may even be room for some little doubt whether or not it is in perfect examples narrowed and produced into a canal below.
If this is the case the name of the species should be Soleniicus Klipparti as it appears to present very nearly the other characters of the type of that group.
The specific name is given in honor of John H. Klippart Esq. .of Columbus Ohio Secretary' of the State Agricultural Society 18t2.
and one of the assistant geologists of the Ohio Survey who discovered the specimens from which the foregoing description was made out.
Locality and position.
 Base of Coalmeasures near Somerset Perry County Ohio.
CEPHALOPODA.
ORTHOCEEAS ORTONI Meek.
Shell rather rapidly expanding from the posterior toward the aperture  section oval or more or less nearly circular  septa rather closely arranged  siphuncle lateral being at one of the narrow ends of the compressed section but not quite marginal of comparatively moderate size and apparently beaded  surface of cast showing traces of regular obscure longitudinal ridges that would probably not have been defined on the exterior of the shell which is unknown.
I have seen but two specimens of this species and they are accidentally compressed and incomplete at both extremities.
The more nearly complete one of these specimens is about 2.30 inches in length and septate throughout.
At the larger end it measures about 1.3T inches in breadth and only 0.44 inch in its smallest diameter while at the smaller end its greater diameter is 0.38 inch and its smaller 0.24 inch.
It has manifestly however been accidentally compressed more strongly at the larger end which gives the appearance of more rapid expansion toward the aperture than the natural form.
The septa near the larger end are separated by spaces measuring 0.15 inch and at the smaller end measuring 0.07 inch.
At the larger end the very obscure longitudinal ridges measure each about 0.05 inch in breadth with furrows of the same breadth between and both diminish proportionally in size and become nearly obsolete toward the smaller end.
Tills species evidently belongs to the section of the genus consisting of rather rapidly expanding shells with a nearly marginal siphuncle sometimes showing faint longitudinal ridges on the internal cast that are not defined on the external surface  such for instance as 0. comjnilsiim O. robustum 0. indocile c. c. of Bai'rande.
It resembles several of Dr. Barrande's Bohemian species of this type  but after repeated comparisons I have been unable to identify it with any of the numerous species described March 19 by him  and it seems to be equally distinct from all of those described in this country and Canada.
The specific name is given in honor of Prof. Edward Orton of the Ohio Geological Survey.
Locality and position.
 Cincinnati group at Cincinnati Ohio.
Mr. Dyer's collection.
ARTICULATA.
CRUSTACEA CYTHERE CINCINNATIENSIS Meek.
Carapacevalves varying from transversely suboval to subcircular  moderately and rather evenly convex the gx'eatest convexity being in the central and anterior regions  without any visible tubercle or nodes  ventral margins rounded or semioval and but slightly unequal or thickened  anterior and posterior margins more or less rounded the former being more broadly rounded generally than the latter  hinge margin very short very slightly sinuous just behind the umbones and rounding into the posterior margin so as scarcely to produce any visible angularity  umbones near the anterior a little tumid rising very slightly above the hinge and rounding off regularly into the anterior margin.
Surface nearly smooth.
Length of one of the larger nearly circular specimens 0.21 inch height 0.17 inch convexity 0.11 inch.
Length of a smaller more oval specimen 0.14 inch height 0.08 inch convexity 0.07 inch.
This species seems to vary a good deal in form some specimens being as the above measurements indicate proportionally higher and thus presenting a more rounded outline.
It is possible that these forms may belong to two distinct species  but with the specimens yet accessible for study I have not felt warranted in separating them.
Locality and position.
 Cincinnati group at Cincinnati Ohio.
Mr. Dyer's collection.
The following interesting Crustacea were discovered by Prof. Frank H. Bradley of Knoxville Tennessee at the base of the Waverley group at Danville Kentucky.
As the same species will doubtless yet be found at this horizon in Ohio they are here 1872.
described along with Oliio fossils and will be described and illustrated in the report of the geological survey of that State.
CEEATIOCAEIS COLPOCARIS BRADLEYI Meek.
Carapacevalves rhombicsubclliptic more than twice as long as high moderately convex dorsal margins forming a very broad depressed arch from end to end ventral margin more deeply arched the most prominent part being near the middle along which it is abruptly inflected while its entire length owing to the obliquity of the posterior end is shorter than the dorsal margin  posterior deeply and obliquely sinuous so as to cause the posterior extremity of the dorsal margin to terminate in an acute downward curved projection that extends decidedly farther back tlian the more obtuse termination of the lower margin anterior end narrowed with its margin rounded up from below so as to connect with the dorsal nearly at right angles above.
Surface smooth but showing under amaguifier very minute reticulated markings.
Ocular spots wanting.
Length about 2.75 inches height about 1.25 inch.
This species agrees most nearly in size and form with Ceratiocaris 
sinuatun Meek and Worthen from the lower coalmeasures of Grundy County Illinois and was found b Prof Bradley enveloped in exactly the same way in concretions.
It differs however in being proportionally narrower in its vertical diameter with the most prominent part of its basal margin more nearly central.
The posterior extremity of its dorsal naargiu also differs in being more produced and more pointed as well as more curved downward  while that of its lower margin is proportionally shorter owing to the obliquity of the deep sinus of the posterior end of the valves.
The C
si7iuatus however belongs evidently to the same group.
On first examining this and the following species I was at once impressed with the general resemblance of the specimens to the genus Ceratiocaris of McCoy.
On carefully comparing them however with the original typical species of that genus such as G. solenoides G. ellipticus and the more recently described G.ornatus of McCoy from the Silurian I observed certain diilerences that led me to doubt the propriety of referring our species to the same group.
Consequently I sent some of the specimens to Prof. Dana of New Haven for examination and he writes that both xAIarch 19 Dr. S. I. Smith of that city and himself concur in the opinion that they do not properljbelong to the same genus as the typical forms of Ceratiocaris.
The differences to which I have alluded consist first in the form of the carapacevalves which instead of being truncated with a uearl straight outline from below forward and upward are truncated from above forward and downward with a jrofoundly sinuous outline the sinus being directed forward and upAvard while the posterior extremity of the dorsal margin is produced pointed and curved downward.
Again they show a peculiar flexure of the ventral margin so as to form a kind of linear carina.
In the species Btadleyi this margin is always inflected along this line at an acute angle inward and upward  while in the species elytroides it is less strongly deflected though the linear carina is equally well defined and sometimes minutely crenated.
This species also shows another minutely crenated obscurely defined carina below the dorsal margin and would therefore bear some resemblance to Dithyrocaris in this respects but otherwise particularl' in form its carapacevalves are quite different from those of that type.
It is also worthy of note that none of the several specimens of these species show any traces of the ocular spot or tubercle constantly seen in the typical species of Ceratiocaris and that the show a clean smooth outline to the dorsal mai'gins of the carapacevalves indicating that they were only united hy a membrane  while those of Ceratiocaris were supposed by Prof. McCoy to be anchylosed and rigidly united at a fixed angle along the dorsal margin.
I have no doubt in regard to the importance of some if not all of these points of difterence but knowing how slow many geologists who are generally far behind zoologists in the discrimination of genera are to accept such divisions I have merely distinguished these species for the present as belonging to a subgenus of Ceratiocaris under the name ColpocaiHs in allusion to the sinus of the posterior margin.
Locality and position.
 Base of the Waverley group at Danville Kentucky.
Prof. Bradley's collection.
18T2.
CERATIOCARIS COLPOCARIS ELYTROIDES Meek.
Carapacevalves narrowsubelliptic about two and a half to three times as long as high anterior end narrower than the other and subangular above  dorsal margin gently arcuate from end to end and terminating behind in a pointed projection that extends a little farther backward than the lower margin and curves distinctly downward  posterior margin truncated obliquely from above forward and downward and very deeply sinuous the sinus being directed a little upward and forward  basal margin most prominent near the middle and behind this straight or sometimes very faintly sinuous and ascending to the rather obtusely pointed posterior basal extremity while from near the middle forward it ascends gradually at first with slight convexity of outline and farther forward with a stronger upward curve until it intersects the dorsal margin above at a more or less obtuse angle.
Surface writh an obscure linear sometimes minutely crenate carina or raised line along near the lower margin but not exactly parallel to it being most remote from it along near the middle and another similar but more distinctly crenate carina running along parallel to and about onefifth the height of tlie valves below the dorsal margin  otherwise appearing to the unassisted eye as if perfectly smooth but when examined in a favorable light by the aid of the highest power that can be conveniently used as a hand magnifier seen to be very beautifully and minutely striated the strise being very regular closely arranged and more or less divaricating from the caringe.
Length of carapacevalves 1.25 inches height 0.46 inch convexity of each valve 0.09 inch.
This species may be readily distinguished from the last not only by its smaller size but by its narrower form and its two minutely crenate longitudinal carinse and particularly by the different nature of its microscopical sculpturing that of the lastdescribed species presenting a delicate reticulated appearance instead of minute hairlines.
The basal margins of its valves below the carina are also only a little deflected inward and downward while in all the specimens of the latter yet seen they are abruptly deflected at an acute angle inward and upward.
Locality and position.
 Same as last.
March 19 CEEATIOCARIS SOLENOCARIS STRIGATA Meek.
Carapacevalves narrow and elongated rather convex with length about four times the height  dorsal and ventral margins nearly straight and parallel anterior extremity very narrowly rounded being most prominent at the middle posterior end very obliquely truncated from below backward and upward so as to impart a more or less angular or pointed character to the posterior dorsal extremity which however is not curved.
Surface of internal cast showing rather welldefined mai'ks of growth parallel to the margins  while moulds of the exterior show impressions of coarse more or less anastomosing longitudinal strise that do not curve exactly parallel to the free margins particularly of the ends.
jSTo ocular spot or tubercle visible.
Length 1.24 inch height about 0.30 inch convexity about 0.25 inch.
I did not submit this form to Professor Dana but as it differs quite as materially though in other respects from Ceratiocaris as those I sent to him do and as widely or even more widely from those I sent than the latter do from Ceratiocaris proper I have ventured to suggest for it at least a subgeneric name Solenocaris.
It shows no traces of ocular spots and merely has the posterior end subtruncated obliquely backward from below without any traces of a sinus.
At a first glance it looks like the valves of a narrow bivalve mollusk  but its sculpturing is decidedly of crustacean type being like that of some species of Ceratiocaris.
Locality and position Same as preceding.
ARCH.ffiOCARIS VERMIFORMIS Meek.
The specimens of this fossil jet known are too imperfect to be systematically characterized but they may be described in a geneal way as follows the description being intended to apply to a side view of individuals as seen more or less compressed laterally in concretions.
Cephalothorax or head about equalling the length of the first three and a half of the bod segments behind it  subtrigonal in form being somewhat pointed in front with the posterior margin wider and obliquely truncated from above backward and downward so as to give more or less angularity to the posterior basal extremity  basal margin apparently with a kind of ridge or fold 1872.
along most of its length and ascending with a slightly convex outline forward so as to meet the dorsal margin which is more nearly horizontal at a rather acute angle in front  ej'es if there are any unknown.
Abdomen or body with the six segments of nearly equal size and strongly imbricating.
Telson apparentl as long as three of the abdominal segments flattened of moderate breadth anterior
' and tapering beliind.
Stylets not clearly seen but apparentlj one on each side of the telson other abdominal appendages unknown.
Surface of all parts smooth.
Length of head or cephalothorax from the anterior to the posterior basal extremities 0.34 inch height 0.18 inch length of the six body or abdominal segments 0.51 inch height 0.16 inch length of telson unknown.
In one of the specimens there is a leglike appendage seen in the matrix extending close along under and parallel to the basal margin of the head or cephalothorax.
This appendage or rather what can be seen of it consists of three joints two long and one short.
The posterior joint although apparently broken at the posterior end is 0.13 inch long and rather stouter than the next in front of it which is of the same length.
The third joint only shows a little of one end which connects with the anterior end of the forward one of the two longer joints and is flexed at right angles to the latter so as to pass under the anterior margin of the cephalothorax.
This may possibly be one of the abdominal appendages bent forward but it has more the appearance of a stout antenna bent backward.
Prof. Dana thinks it most probably the latter.
In regard to the affinities of this type not much can be said without better specimens for comparison.
Prof. Dana suggests however that it may possibly have some relations to the recent genus Cuma.
Being unable to find any defined genus to which it can be properly referred I propose for its reception a new genus under the name A7'ch8eocaris in allusion to the ancient period of its existence.
Locality and positmi.
 Same as preceding.
March 19 The following reports were read and referred to tlie Publication Committee   THE LIBRARIAN'S REPORT.
The Librarian respectfully reports that the number of additions to the library from January to December 1871 inclusive amounts to 1236.
Of these 165 were volumes 1060 pamphlets and parts of periodicals and 11 maps and charts.
They were derived from the following sources  Societies 462 Editors 206 Wilson Fund 94 Authors 92 Publishers 00 Dr. H. C. Wood 31 Isaac Lea 28 Korwegian Government 18 Secretary of Treasury 15 Geological Survej' of Sweden 12 Government of Chile 8 Geological Survey of Italj7 Geological Survej of India 5 Thos.
Meelian 5 J.
B. Lawes 5 Minister of Public Works in France 5 J.
S Newberry 3 T. Guilford Smith 2 Smithsonian Institution 2 Chief of Engineers U.S.A. 2 Dep.
of Interior 2 Dr. Jos.
Leidy 1 Dr. H. C. Chapman 1 Col. Jas.
Greer 1 Jos.
Jeanes 1 P. P. Carpenter 1 Commissioner of Fisheries 1 D. F. Boyd 1.
85 were purchased and 80 presented through the Conchological Section.
These additions were distributed to the different departments of the library as follows Journals 761 Geology 80 Bibliography 92 Entomolog' 47 History and Statistics 45 Conchology 39 General Natural History 25 Ornithology 11 Ichthyology 9 Physical Science 8 Botany 7 Anatomj' and Physiology' 7 Helminthology 7 Agriculture 6 Mineralog 6 Voyages and Travels 2 Medicine 2 Chemistry 1 Mammalogy 1.
251 volumes have been bound.
During the year the revised and numbered catalogue of the Conchological Department has been completed and is now in the hands of the binder.
Thirtj'two applications for books wanting in the library were made by means of the blanks provided for the use of memliers.
Fourteen of the required works have been received and the others have been ordered.
Estimating the number of volumes formed by the pamphlets 1872.
and periotlicals received during the last two years the whole number of volumes now in the library is 22693.
All of which is respectfully submitted Edward J. Nolan Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The donations to the Museum of the Academy during the j'ear are as follows   Vertebrates.
 A fine specimen of a Manatee Manatus laiirostris from St. Domingo was presented by Mr. William M. Gabb.
It has been mounted and now occupies a place in the museum.
We may also state that the Sea lion Eumetopias Stelleri from California presented last year by George Davidson has also been prepared and placed in the museum.
Mr. B.
A. Hoopes presented a hybrid between the domestic Brahma cock and the Guinea fowl raised by himself.
A peculiar variety of the Bernicla canadensis from Indiana was presented by Gen. L. E. Yorkeof Cincinnati Ohio.
A parrot and a toucan were presented by Miss LeClair and a Snow Bunting from Alaska by S. R. Roberts.
A collection of fishes in eighteen jars from St. Domingo was presented by William Gabb  a collection in eight jars from the Delaware river by Dr. C. Arrott and a HipxOcampus by W. A. H. Allen U.S.N.
3Iiscellaneous Collections.
 A collection of reptiles marine fishes mollusks crustaceans and echinoderms from the vicinity of Fort Macon N. C was presented by Dr. H. C. Yarrow U.S.A. A second collection consisting of four bottles of fishes mollusks crustaceans and insects together with some marine shells and two skulls of Loggerhead turtles was presented by the same gentleman.
A collection of five jars of reptiles and fishes a skeleton of u fish four species of shells several corals and echinoderms eggs of the Alligator and a case of lepidoptera from the Isthmus of Darien were presented by Dr. H. C. Eckstein U.S.A. Invertebrates.
 A Scorpion with j'oung and several spiders from Mexico were donated by Prof. A.
Du Bois  a large crab from Alaska bj Dr. John M. Kollick a small collection of lepidopMarch 1 9 tei'a from Texas by Dr. G. Lincecum  and a small collection of coleoptera by J. R. Willis of Halifax N. S. The spawn of a mollusk from the Pacific was presented by Dr. Geo.
Davidson and a specimen of Pheronema Grayi by W. Savillc Kent.
Osteological Ethnological and Miscellaneous Specimens.
 A wellpreserved mummy from near Ancon Peru was presented by Mr. Edm.
W. Sartori.
Two skulls of Caciques of the Peguenche tribe of Chili were presented by Dr. S. Wier Mitchell.
The skull of a Flathead from Washington Territory was presented by Dr. J. M. Kollick.
The skull of a Walrus from Sable Island N. S. was presented by J. R Willis of Halifax N. S. The following specimens were also received  A shark's jaws from Capt.
Westcott U.S.N.
 the dermal covering of a large Alligator Gar from Mr. Swaim  three ancient stone hammers from the copper region of Keweenaw Pt. L. S.from Francis R.Abbott a section of a birch tree fifteen inches in diameter cut by beavers from Keweenaw Pt. L. S. from B.
A. Hoopes  and the fangs of a large Rattlesnake from California from Prof. A.
Du Bois.
Dr. H. C. Yarrow presented a small collection of shells bones and fragments of pottery from ancient shell heaps on Hawkins's Island N. C. Fossils.
 Dr. J. Yan A. Carter and Dr. Joseph K. Corson U.S.A. of Fort Bridger Wyoming presented a collection of remains of extinct mammals crocodilians and chelonians and some shells from an early tertiary deposit of Wyoming.
These remains pertain to species described during the year in the Proceedings of the Academy.
Dr. Showalter presented a large portion of the skeleton including the skull of Clidastes iguanavus from the cretaceous formation of Alabama.
Dr. Isaac Lea presented a portion of the lower jaw of Rhinoceros tichorhinus and a molar of Elephas pinmigenius from near Florence Italy.
Mr. S. R. Roberts presented a small collection of mosasauroid remains from Kansas.
There were also presented the following  Six fossils by J. W. Queen  five by Mrs. R. Hoffman  two by T. Guilford Smith three by Thomas Meehan  two by Dr. H. C. Chapman  two by Lotta Town  one by Guy Bryan  one by C. S. Westcott  one by C. S. Bement  one by Mr. Castor  and one by an unknown donor.
Plants.
 Sixtjseven species of Mexican plants were presented by C. Mohr of Mobile.
A collection of plants from the vicinity 1872' of Fort Tejon Cal. was presented b' the Smithsonian Institution.
Twentythree species of African plants were presented by Win.
M. Canby.
One species was presented by D. P. Rosenmiller and two by C. F. Parker.
Minerals.
 Dr. F. A. Genth presented a huge mass of dogtooth spar from Morgan mine Ken.
Alfred Deshong presented four groups of large feldspar crystals from Leiperville and Jacob Swayne two large crystals of muscovite from Pennsbury Pa. Of other minerals there were presented three by W. S. Vaux two by C. S. Beraent two by B. S. Lyman two by I. Lea two by E. Goldsmith and one by each of the following Dr. F. A. Genth G. A. Nicolls H. Veeder T. D. Rand and W. L. Mactier.
Respectfully submitted by Joseph Leidy Chairman of Curators.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL COMMITTEE.
To the President and Members of the Academy   During the past year the Committee have devoted themselves to distributing the valuable specimens contained in the various collections through the general and the North American Herbariums.
In our last report it was stated that owing to the cases being full and not permitting from their structure any additions these specimens were temporarily arranged in a supplemental herbarium.
By the consent of the curators these old cases will be abandoned and simple portfolio cases employed in their stead.
This has enabled the Committee to distribute the plants in their proper places in the general herbarium.
At the beginning of last year the index of the general herbarium contained the names of 3239 genera.
By the labors of the Committee 170 new ones have been added.
The work during the next month will be entirely finished.
Thomas Meehan or the Committee.
The Treasurer's Report was read and referred to the Committee on Finance.
March 19 RECORDING SECRETARY'S REPORT.
The Recording Secretaiy would respeclfull report that during the year ending November 30th 1811 there have been elected thirtyfive members and eight correspondents.
The announcement has been made of the death of the following members and correspodents  Four members namely Dr. Charles M. Wetherill Benjamin Marshall William P. Turnbull Stephen Morris Esq.
Six correspondents namely Wilhelm Ritter von Haidinger Prof. E. E. Adams D.D. F. F.' Cavada Mr. J. J. Cohen Prof.
Constant Dumeril Dr. John Edward Holbrook.
The number of papers contributed and ordered to be printed in the Proceedings of the Academy during the year has been nineteen as follows  Prof. F. B. Meek 3 T. Meehan 1 Edward D. Cope 2 Prof. C. Thomas 1 J.
A. Offden 1 'o Prof. L. B. Buckley 1 Robert Ridgway 1 Elliott Coues M.D 2 Prof. A. Newton 1 Isaac Lea LL.D 2 T. Hale Streets 2 
G. N. Lawrence 1 Theodore D. Raud .... 1.
All of which is respectfull submitted Samuel B. Howell Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF RECORDER OF MICROSCOPICAL AND BIOLOGICAL SECTION.
Extract from the Minutes of the Biological and Microscopical Section at the meeting held December 4th 1871. 
The Report of the Recorder being in order it was called for and after jcing read was on motion of Dr. Tyson adopted and directed to be transmitted to the Academy at its approaching annual meeting as the Report of the Section to wit  In accordance with that regulation of the Section which requires the Recorder to lay before you a written report of the transactions during the year in our department I have the honor to submit the following summary of scientific labor accomplished within the past twelve months  and whilst it is incontestably true that 1872.
PART III.
 23 this exhibit cannot compare favorably with those of other like periods it must I think be admitted that evidence is thereby afforded of an earnest determination to keep alive some interest in the study of microscopy.
Valuable donations have been from time to time received from Dr. J. J.Woodward of the SurgeonGeneral's Office at Washington consisting of specimens of his admirable microphotographs of histological preparations test objects from the Diatomaceae c. c. Among the more important contributions laid before the department may be mentioned one from Dr. James Tj'son on a method of demonstrating the reversal of light and shade occurring in the red bloodcorpuscles under microscopical examination wiiich was subsequently printed in the Philadelphia Medical Times.
One from Dr. J. H. McQuillen upon a remarkable example of h3'pertrophy of the root of a tooth the specimen being first exhibited to the members in its natural state and its con.
struction being afterwards demonstrated b carefully prepared and mounted sections.
Another from the same gentleman on imperfections in the enamel of teeth producing microscopical fissures which constituted predisposing causes of caries his remarks lieing published in the Medical Times and Dental Cosmos and subsequently reprinted in the London Microscopical Journal.
An interesting contribution also illustrated by specimens upon intermittent hfematuria from Dr. James Tyson which likewise appeared in the Medical Times and was republished by various medical periodicals.
One from Dr. Tyson on the existence of true Haversian canals in hypertrophied cementum.
Communications from Dr. Tj'son and Dr. Richardson in regard to the use of acetate of potash solution as a preservative fluid for microscopical specimens and one from the latter observer on the Detection of Pulmonary Elastic Tissue in the Sputum of Phthisis.
In conclusion I would unless we determine to abandon our efforts respectfully' urge upon my fellowmembers the adoption of the proposed change in our existing arrangement for holding the meetings of the Department in the hope that by reducing the frequency of our meetings the diminished number of earnest students of microscopy who remain will be able to present in rota tion according to a systematic plan on each stated meeting some written or oral communication illustrated by specimens which April 9 ma serve as a subject for discussion and render the proceedings of sufficient value and interest to secure the general attendance of our own members as well as of other scientific men.
Jos.
G. Richardson Recorder.
REPORTS OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
RECORDER'S REPORT.
The Recorder would respectfully report that during the past 3'ear there have been elected three correspondents.
The deaths of the following members and correspondents have been announced  Charles W. Peale member October 5th  M. de la Saussaye Bordeaux correspondent October 5th  F. F. Cavada Cuba.
Twenty papers have been accepted for publication by the following authors  W. Harper Pease 6  Wm.
H. Dall 4  Bland and Binney 4  Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. 3  R. E. C. Stearns 2  F. B. Meek 1.
Appended is a list of the correspondents elected during 1871.
Respectfully submitted by S. R. Roberts Recorder.
Correspondents elected in 1871   February 2d.
H. E. Van Rijgersma St. Martins West Indies. 
 G. Nevill Calcutta India.
April 6th.
Hugh Nevill Point de Galle Ceylon.
CORRESPONDING SECRETARY'S REPORT.
To the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelpliia   The Corresponding Secretary would respectfully report that letters have been written as follows viz.
  Feb. 3. To Hugh Nevill Galle Ceylon.
To Dr. H. E. Van Rijgersma St. Martins W. I.
And letters have been received as follows viz.
  March 14.
 From Albany Hancock.
March 20 From H. E. Van Rijgersma.
July 15.
 From Dr. Fred'k Stolizka.
Nov. 3  From New York Lyceum of Natural History.
Smithsonian Institution four letters.
1872.
Boston Natural History Society.
Dec. 6.
 American Museum Natural History of New York Nov.
1.
Dec. 6.
 H Cross Paris Sept. 20.
Publications sent.
All of which is respectfully submitted E. R. Beadle Cor.
Secry.
Philadelphia Dec. 7th 1871.
LIBEARIAN'S REPORT FOR 1871.
The Librarian respectfully reports that there have been presented during the past year to the library of the Conchological Section 73 pamphlets and 7 volumes.
Of these 23 were received from Societies 20 from Editors 22 from Authors 5 from the Publication Committee 2 from Isaac Lea 2 from George W. Tryon Jr. 2 from H. Neville 1 from J. Gwynu Jeffreys and 8 were purchased.
In addition 3 volumes and 36 pamphlets have been presented during the same time to the Academy.
There are now in the Conchological Library 668 volumes.
There are 807 titles on the catalogue.
During the year the transcription of the revised and numbered catalogue of this department has been completed and is herewith presented.
All of which is respectfully submitted Edward J. Nolan Librarian.
CONSERVATOR'S REPORT.
The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that the donations to the Cabinet during the past year have been as follows  From Rev.
E. R. Beadle.
Twentyfive species of shells principally from Ce'lon.
P. P. Carpenter.
A large lot of duplicate species in exchange for some of the publications of the Section.
T. A. Conrad.
Numerous specimens of Unio viridis from Trenton N. J. Geo.
Davidson.
Eggcases of Chrysodomus liratus Mar.
Dr. H. C. EcsTEiN.
Three species of Strombus from Central America.
April 9 Andrew J Garrett of Papeiti Tahiti.
One hundred and fiftyfour land freshwater and marine shells of Polynesia includinotypes of many new species.
S. S. Haldeman.
Nauiilus umibilicahis List.
J. GwYNN Jeffreys.
Fusus Bernicensis King  Lima excavata Chem. and eighteen other species of rare rharine raolluscafrom Norway and Great Britain.
Dr. Samuel Lewis through W. L. Mactier.
Eggs of Bulimus hsemastoma.
W. Harper Pease.
Thirtysix species of land and marine shells from the Pacific Islands.
Samuel Powel.
Eggcases of Fusus Islandicus from Newport R. L J. H. Redfield.
Eleven species of Marginella mostly new to the collection  also twenty species of bivalve mollusca new to the collection.
S. R. Roberts.
Four species of Clausilia and one species of Bulimus from Greece.
T. Hale Streets.
Bulimus Powisianus from Isthmus of Tehauntepec.
Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. Twenty species of bivalve mollusca new to the collection.
Dr. H. C. Yarrow.
Numerous specimens of Lingula pyramidata Stimp.. in alcohol.
One hundred and fourteen species of shells from Beaufort N. C. Wm.
S. Yaux.
Twent3'seven species of Cyprsea Ovulum and Solen new to the collection.
One hundred species numerous specimens of shells from Panama including a number of species in alcohol and fift3six species from the coast of Nicaragua were presented bj' the subscribers to the McNeill Expedition to Central America.
Eightyfive species of Polynesian mollusca principall' new collected bjthe Godeffroy Natural History Expedition were purchased together with thirty species of bivalve mollusca new to the collection and selected by the Rev.
Dr. Beadle during his recent visit to London.
During the year the Committee on the Arrangement of the Cabinet consisting of Messrs. Parker Hassler Roberts Tryon and Nolan has cleaned mounted and labelled 6881 specimens in 18T2.
346 1898 trays.
This includes the Cardiidse Lucinidae.
Ghamidse Peti'icolidee Melanidse Tridacnidse Tet'ebratulidee North American Helices and Corbiculadse in part.
The current additions to the families already arranged have also been mounted and placed in the cases as soon as received.
The sale of duplicate specimens has furnished sufficient funds for the purchase of about sixty additional drawers which have been procured and placed in the museum.
The total number of species mounted and ai'ranged to date is 4031  number of trays and labels prepared 7169 total number of specimens prepared and mounted 20941.
All of which is respectfully submitted Edward J. Nolan Conservator.
The election of Officers for the ensuing year was held in accordance with the Bylaws with the following result  President VicePresidents Recording Secretary Corresponding Secretary Librarian Curators Council Publication Committee Committee on Finance W. S. W. Ruschenberger M.D.
Wm.
S. Yaux.
Jos.
Carson M.D.
Samuel B. Howell M.D.'
Edward D. Cope.
Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Joseph Leidy M.D.
Wm.
S. Vaux.
Geo.
W. Try on Jr. Edw.
D. Cope.
Isaac Lea.
Robert Bridges M.D.
Edw.
S. Whelen.
Isaac Hays M.D.
Jos.
Leid M.D.
Robert Bridges M.D.
Wm.
S. Vaux.
Geo.
W. Try on Jr. Edw.
J. Nolan M.D.
Wm.
S. Vaux.
Aubrey H Smith.
Robert Bridges M.D.
April 9 i
