NOTICE OF A COLLECTION OF CRETACEOUS FOSSILS FROM CHIHUAHUA, MEXICO.
BY WILLIAM M. GABB.
A small collection of Cretaceous fossils has recently been submitted to me for examination by my friend, Dr. J. P. Kimball, who collected tbem near the centre of the State of Chihuahua, at a place called Nugal, in the midst of a silver mining region.
In fact, the doctor represents the argentiferous veins as lying in the cretaceous limestone.
1 The fossils are of the more intei'est, since they are another link in the chain of evidence, to prove an extension of the cretaceous sea completely across Northern Mexico.
2 They are of the same group, from which I have already described one series, collected by my old friend and colleague, Aug. Remond, at Arivechi in Sonora ; and the two localities are only separated by the crest of the Sierra Madre, which probably showed its summits as a string of islands in the ancient ocean.
Collected incidentally during a journey made for an entirely different purpose, and in a region infested by Apaches, it is not strange that the series is meagre.
Fortunately, it is full enough to give us an undoubted key to the exact member of the formation.
The following is a list of the species identified.
In addition to these, there is a favositiform coral, and one or two other forms too imperfect for recognition.
Hippurites Texanus, Roem.
Ostrea bella, Conrad.
Exogyra costata, Say.
E. arietina, Roem.
Neithea Texana, Roem.
sp.
N. occidentalis, Conrad.
Lima Wacoensis, Roem.
L. Kimballi, Gabb, n. s. Inoceramus, two species, indet.
1 See Silliman's Journal, Nov. 1869, p. 378.
2 Palaeontology of California, vol.
ii.
p. 257 et seq, Globiconcha?
sp.
indet.
Pleurotoma Pedernalis ?
Roem.
sp.
(Fusus id.
Roem.)
A shell agreeing perfectly with Roemer's figure in Kreid.
Texas, in size, form, and sculpture; but on which the lines of growth distinctly indicate the sinus of Pleurotoma.
Ammonites Guadalupre, Roem.
Ammonites Ouadalupce, Roem., pi.
9. fig.
1, and pi.
10, figs.
1, la.
Kreidebildungen von Texas, p. 32, pi.
2, fig.
1, la, lb.
Roemer's figure represents a larger speeimen than the one before me, and one which exhibits only the more mature form of the shell.
The present fine example is 4.*!
inches in its greater diameter, and gives us some additional characters.
It wants almost entirely the dorsal ornamentation figured in Kreid.
Texas ; the dorsum being broad, nearly flat, and rounded on the margin.
The umbilical row of nodes is well developed, but the outer lateral row is barely discernible ; their place being occupied, on the older parts or the shell by faint undulations, which show a tendency to form a series of bifurcate ribs extending outward from the abovementioned nodes.
In the still younger stage, as exhibited by the inner whorls, the shell is flattened discoiclal, very similar to A. placenta or A. Pedernalis, without tubercles, or with no more than are often shown by these species.
The dorsum is then very compressed laterally, and is truncated and bi-carinate, so that young specimens of this shell, except for the wider umbilicus, could readily be mistaken for either of the above, but more especially the latter species, which also occurs in the same rocks.
1 Roemer's figure of the septum seems to have been drawn from a weathered specimen.
The differences between the details of his lobes and mine are not more than I have frequently observed in individuals of other species.
Lima Kimballi, Gabb, n. s., pi.
11, fig.
1.
This fine large species is represented by but a single mutilated specimen, of which, while much of the outline is destroyed, the surface is pretty well preserved, and is so characteristic that I have ventured to name it.
It is equivalve, compressed, very oblique, elongated, posterior See Pal.
California, vol.
ii.
p. 258, pi.
35, figs.
1, la.
side prominent and broadly rounded ; ears unknown.
Surface marked by about twelve or thirteen prominent, nearly equal ribs, rounded, or subangular, with broad, regularly concave interspaces, wider than the ribs.
Whole surface crossed by very fine lines of growth.
Length, about three inches ; greatest width 2.2 in., thickness through both valves, .5 in.
Besides the mollusca, Dr. Jos.
Leidy has decided a single shark tooth in the collection to belong to the common Galeocerdo falcatus of the chalk, found in England as well as America.
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.
Plate 9, fig.
1.
Ammonites Guadalupse, side view. "
10," 1.
Id.
front view, showing the change of the dorsum.
Fig.
let.
Septum. "
11, " 1.
Lima Kimballi.
18 November 5.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-three members present.
The following paper was presented for publication : " Description of some new genera of Mollusca."
By Wm.
M. Gabb.
Mr. Joseph Willcox stated that having felt much interest in the subject of corundum, he had frequently visited the localities of that mineral in Pennsylvania ; and that during last April he visited many corundum localities in Lowns Co. Ga., and in Clay and Macon Counties in North Carolina.
Mr. Willcox exhibited a specimen lately obtained from near Unionville, Pa., the central portion of which was corundum surrounded by chlorite.
The exterior part of the corundum was so mixed with chlorite, that there appeared to be an alteration of one of the substances into the other.
Mr. Willcox said he had frequentby found in several localities in North Carolina, round specimens of chlorite, the central portions of which were corundum, which corresponded in shape to the surrounding mass of chlorite.
These nodules of corundum were from one-quarter inch in size to three inches.
In some of the specimens the lines were well defined between the corundum and chlorite, while in others these two substances were so mixed as to appear to pass into each other b} r insensible degrees.
Mr. Willcox said he had never seen a specimen of this character from any corundum localitj 7 in Pennsylvania before.
Mr. Willcox also exhibited specimens of crystals of corundum from Laurens District in South Carolina ; one of which was partly altered into margarite, and another was wholly converted into the latter substance.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, referring to the cylindrical production presented by Prof. Leidy, said he thought he could confirm Prof. Leidy's suspicion that it was not of vegetable origin, but' was wholly mineral.
There was not only the peculiarity in the apparent concentric laj'ers, referred to by Prof. Leidy, but also an entire absence of any trace of medullary rays which he thought never wholly obsolete in woody petrifactions.
But beyond this the diameter of what appeared to have been the pith cavity was far bej'ond what usuall} T occurred in Dicotyledonous structures of the age which this, by the number of circles, ought to be.
Although lie believed the suggestion had not been made before, he had reason to believe that the pith cavity decreased in diameter with the age of the wood.
Thus in the case of the strong shoots which in this country formed the ultimate trunk of the Paulownia imperialism the pith occupied a space in the centre of from one-quarter to three-quarters of an inch in diameter according to the strength of this shoot; but in some trees about twenty-five years old, he had seen cut down, the pith cavity was nearly obliterated.
It was scarcely credible that any dicotyledonous shoot of one year's growth ever had a pith as thick as this.
But besides these incongruities he had been able to trace the origin of similar formations.
In central New York, he had seen on a farm a large number of hollow cylindrical substances from one-quarter to one inch or more in diameter which appeared like pieces of large clay pipe stems.
There were many successive circular layers as in this specimen.
Informed by the farmer that they came in the muck obtained from a swamp near by, he examined the spot, and found in many instances the central portion was occupied by decaying wood and roots.
In time these rotted completely away, and left the structure a hollow tube.
The mineral substance around this woody matter appeared to be carbonate of lime, and as the swamp was very wet.
in winter, and partly dry in summer, he supposed the varying temperature of the water at different seasons of the year, or perhaps actual periodical dryness, would give the appearance of annual rings to the deposit, which formed around the woody core.
He would suggest that probably this piece had been formed in a similar manner, and that after the woody centre which had formed the nucleus of the cylindrical mass had decaj^ed and disappeared through the ends, the crystallized silicious matter had formed in its place.
Notice of Donation of Fossils, etc., from Wyoming.
Prof. Leidy directed attention to the specimens of fossils and other specimens from Wyoming Territory, presented this evening.
The fine specimen consisting of a nearly complete dorsal shell of a Trionyx, was found on the buttes of Dry Creek, about ten miles from Fort Bridger.
It was discovered by Maj. R. S. La Motte, commander of the fort, and was kindly presented by him to the Academy.
The shell is about 16^ inches long and nearly as broad.
Before comparing it with the specimen of Trionyx guttatus it was supposed to be the same, but certain characters appear to indicate it as a distinct species, which may be named Trionyx uintaensis.
The fore and back parts of the carapace are truncated as in the existing T. muticus.
The back truncation is slightly sinuous, and extends the width of the last two pairs of costal plates.
In T. guttatus the corresponding border is convex and exhibits a deep median and two deep lateral sinuses.
The specimen possesses only six pairs of vertebral plates.
Of the other fossils a number pertain to a large land tortoise, previously described under the name of Testudo Corsoni.
There are two specimens consisting of nearly complete ventral shields, broken into many species.
One of these was found at Grizzly Buttes and presented by Dr. Corson; the other was found at Dry Creek, by Mrs. Anna Carter, the wife of Dr. Carter, and was presented by her to the Academy.
The specimens exhibit some variation in conformation though they are supposed to pertain to the same species.
The anterior lobe of the shield has the episternals much prolonged and truncated.
The posterior lobe at the extremity presents a wide and deep angular notch.
The surface of the shield posteriorly is deeply concave.
The length of the plastron is about two feet.
A third specimen of a ventral shield less perfect than the others, has associated with it the median portion of a dorsal shield or carapace.
The specimens were found by Dr. Corson on Grizzly Butte.
These would appear to indicate that the specimens formerly described and supposed to pertain to a large En^s, for which the name of E. Carteri was proposed, really belong to the same animal.
The error was committed on account of the large costal capitula, which accord in their proportions with those of living terapenes.
Among other specimens presented are some large cylindrical masses of agate, obtained from the buttes in the vicinity of Carter Station on the Union Pacific R. R. They simulate, in their form and concentric structure, fossil wood, which they however appear not to be, but are rather of the character of siliceous concretions.
Some of them contain an axis of clear white chalcedony, and others are occupied along a central cavity by large yellow c^stals of calcite.
November 12.
Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair.
Twenty-three members present.
The death of Maj. Gen. Geo.
G. Meade, U.S.A., was announced.
November 19.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
November 26.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-one members present.
The following gentlemen were elected members: C. P. Sinnickson, C. P. Krauth, Joseph Hazard, Francis Garden Smyth, M.D., John J. Thompson, J. Euen Loughlin, M.D., Thos.
M. Chatard, Geo.
A. Koenig, Gideon E. Moore, Ph.D.
The following were elected correspondents : J. W. Powell, of Washington, D. C, Capt.
C. M. Scammon, of San Francisco, Cal.
On favorable report of the committees, the following paper was ordered to be published :
