NOTES ON THE SANTA FE MARLS AND SOME OF THE CONTAINED VERTEBRATE FOSSILS.
BY E. D. COPE.
The palreontological and geological examination conducted by the party of the U. S. Survey west of the north meridian Lieut.
G. M. Wheeler in charge has alreadj' during the present season developed facts of interest some of which are noticed below.
The exploration has extended to the extensive lacustrine deposit in the vallej' of the Rio Grande which has been termed by Dr. Haj'den the Santa Fe marls.
This author describes the deposits as first appearing in the north near Taos and continuing for an unknown distance southward and occupj'ing the valley between the Rocky Mountains on the east and the Jemez range on the west he regards it as late Tertiary but without special determination or coordination with the other known lacustrine formations of this continent.
Abundant material having been obtained by the party it is easy to determine the fauna whose remains are entombed in it to be a part of that already described by Dr. Leidy and the writer as occurring in Dakota and Colorado under the name of Pliocene.
This conclusion is indicated bj the presence of the genera Hippotherium Protohijjpus Procameius Cosoryx Merychyus and known Pliocene species of other genera among which may be mentioned Canis Acerafherium etc.
In addition to species already known a number new to science were obtained of some of which descriptions are appended.
Martes nambianus sp.
nov.
Represented by a mandibular ramus which supports three teeth.
The anterior blade of the sectorial is rather obtuse.
The first premolar is one rooted  the second and third are without posterior coronal lobe but exhibit small basal lobes both anterior and posterior.
The anterior of the second is rather elevated and the entire crown is directed obliquely forwards.
Canine compressed.
Mental foramina below the second and third premolars.
Measurements.
m. Length of three premolars 006 Elevation of anterior lobe of sectorial.
.... .002 Depth of ramus at anterior lobe of sectorial .
.
.
.003 This species is of smaller size than the M. mustelinus Cope and the sectorial tooth less elevated and trenchant.
Cosoryx ramosus sp.
nov. Cha7'.
Gen.
Inferior molars prismatic 33  the premolars all sectorial last with short branch crests.
Molars with basal intercolumnar tubercles.
Horns superciliary solid branched.
This genus was indicated by Dr. Leidj from a horn of the species known to him the Cosoryx fur catus from the Pliocene beds of the Niobrara.
The same or a similar species has left abundant remains in the Santa Fe marls and in connection with the more numerous G. ramosus has enabled me to determine' the dental and other characters of the genus.
After a careful examination of the horns of these species in my possession those of eighteen individuals at least I find that of ten where the basal portion is preserved the beam has been broken off and reunited by anchylosis in six.
In most of these the spot is marked by a ring of exostosed tuberosities like those constituting tle burr of the deer's horn.
The fracture has taken place in every instance at a point as far above the frontal bone as the burr of deer is situated and is irregular in outline higher on one side than the other.
In some of the specimens the smaller antlers are also broken and exhibit a similar burr but the terminal portion is usually lost.
In one specimen a broken antler is anchjdosed in the ttsual manner of overlapping ends.
The horns are solid the centre having a narrow spongy axis.
The surface is dense and marked by arterial grooves but not pierced b noticeable foramina.
It is evidentlj a question whether this genus should be referred to the hollow or solid horned Ruminantia to the Bovidse or Gervidas.
The horns might be regarded as those of deer were it not for the occasional specimens without burr while the teeth are both cervine and bovine.
We may here draw such inferences as we can respecting the nature of the covering of the horn.
That the fractured beam should not be lost indicates the presence of some kind of covering to retain it.
That this covering was not horny is probable from the fact that the horns are branched a structure impossible to the Bovidae since antlers effectually prevent the usual mode of increase of horn by additions at the base and removal at the extremity.
That such covering protected arteries ' Hayden's Annual Report 1874. which aided in the production of the burrs is also probable.
We may thus believe it to have been dermal lilie that of the giraffe or the Aittilocajira at the period of immaturity of its horny sheath.
It may be concluded then tliat the genus Cosoryx represents the ancestral type of the Cervidae and explains the origin of the remarkable type of horns of that family as follows  Ruminants with fixed horns of structure more dense and brittle than others of the same type in their annual combats at the rutting season ver frequently broke the beams off not far above the base.
The usual location of nutrition followed which being annually repeated became as periodical in its return as the activity of nutrition of the reproductive system.
This activity ceasing the horn being dense lost its vitality the more so as the normal covering would have already perished in its distal portions.
The natural consequence the separation of the dead from the living bone by suppuration would follow.
This process would however probably require a longer time for the establishment of its periodical return than the fracture and attachment of the existing horn.
This.
appears to be the only explanation of the origin of the phenomena exhibited by the horns of the Gervidse and is suggested by the specimens of Cosoryx to be described.
Char.
Specif.
This species is larger than the C.furcatus Leidy and exhibits two antlers instead of one of which the first is given off at a point much further from the base than in that species.
The beam near the base is curved a little inwards and is semicircular in section the outer face being slightl concave the inner very convex.
The base is situated a short distance within the free superciliary border.
The beam becomes more cylindric and then expanding in a fore and aft direction gives off an antler at right angles nearly paraljel to the cranial axis.
At a distance little over half the elevation of the first antler the beam gives off a second in a plane transverse to the axis of the skull.
The terminal portion of the beam is cjdindric curved and acute at the apex.
Mandibles with teeth of two species of this genus were found the smaller of which occurring with the other portions of C.urcatus.
belong to it.
The larger differs in the elevation of the intercrescentic column of the first molar which is worn into a loop at ordinary' maturity  this may however be but an individual variation.
The diastema is long and the ramus of that point quite slender.
150 Measurements.
M. Long diameter base No.
1 016  .
.
.020 Elevation of first antler from base No.
1 .080  of second antler from first No.
3 .042 Length of terminal part of beam No.
4 .
.
.095  of molars 25 No.
5 .
.037  of molars 45 No.
5 .
.
.022  of fifth molar .... .012 Width of fifth moJar .... .
.006 Cosoryx teres sp.
nov.
Established on the connected frontal bones supporting the horns of one specimen and represented by portions of horns of two others.
The former individual is larger than any one belonging to the other species and the species is doubtless the largest of the genus.
The horns stand above the posterior part of the orbit which excavates its base and presenting a considerable face descending into the temporal or z3'gomatic fossa.
There is no free superciliarjrim outside of the base as in C. ramosus Cope.
The section of the beam near the base is a regular oval the long axis directed longitudinally and a little outward in fi'ont.
The beam is erect with a slioht curvature outwards at the inner base onl'.
So far as preserved it does not branch but may do so in its distal portion which is lost.
The tissue is more spongy interiorly than in the other species supraorbital foramen far within the superciliary border.
Measurements.
m. Outer width between bases of horn cores 112 Inner width between bases of horn cores Width of temporal fossa behind horns .
Long diameter horn core Short diameter horn core Length of part preserved .055 .053 .028 .021 .033 This species was as large as the Antilocapra americana of the plains.
Hesperomys loxodon sp.
nov. An entire mandibular ramus wtli all the teeth preserved was found in the same deposits as the preceding species.
Molars subequal shortcrowned triturating surface sigmoid.
The apices of the sigma on the inner side tubercular and anterior to the outer apices.
First molar with an additional transverse crest in front.
Incisor compressed outer angle of enamel face rounded smooth.
Molar series oblique rising anteriorly.
Measitrements.
m. Length of molar series 0050  of first molar 0018 Depth below last molar inner side 0030  below first molar 0045  of incisor 0015  as diastema 0027 Panolax sanctaefidei gen. et sp.
nov. Char.
Gen. Molars prismatic transverse except the first and last each divided by a plate of enamel extending transversely from the inner side.
Anterior molar longitudinal posterior molar composed of two columns.
This genus is represented by numerous teeth and portions of the cranium.
It evidently belonged to the Leporidse and is allied to both Lepus jind Palseolagus.
As the teeth are mostly sepai'ate it is not easy to determine which is the posterior and which the anterior molar.
Judging by the analogy of the known species the determination as here made is correct should the relations be reversed the species will be referred to Palseolagus.
Char.
S2eci.f.
The teeth are curved the convexity inwards.
Inner face grooved the groove occupied by cementum  the outer border compressed either without or with very shallow groove.
First molar with trituratingsurface twice as Ions as wide with an entering loop of enamel on the inner side anteriorly narrower.
Last molar as wide anteroposteriorly as transversely the shaft curved backwards  the posterior column subcylindric half the diameter of the anterior.
Measurements.
Inch.
Diameter of middle molar i anteroposterior .
transverse first molar  anteroposterior  transverse .
 an tra Length of crown of last molar last molar i nteroposterior transverse .
.093 .187 .140 .002 .100 .065 .250 This species is about the size of the northern hare.
Cathartes umbrosus sp.
nov.
Represented by numerous portions of nearly all parts of the skeleton in excellent preservation.
The beak from the frontal bone to near the apex is preserved  it displays the depression just anterior to the nares which marks the anterior boundary of the 152 cere.
The cnlmen is nearly horizontal to just beyond this mark and then exhibits a gradual decurvature to the apex.
The beak is strongly compressed and the tomia strongly decurved forming an open festoon whose middle point marks onefourth the length of the beak from the uares.
The latter are directed obliquely downwards and forwards narrowing anteriorly and having a prominent inferior bounding ledge.
The mandible is weak the symphysis marking on half the length of the beak from the anterior angle of the nares.
The bones of the anterior extremities exhibit large and powerful proportions as compared with the posterior appropriatel' to capacitj' for sustained flight.
The head of the humerus is much compressed and the articular face is nearly divided into two by the deep bicipital groove.
The head of the femur is small and the rotular face a wide and deep groove.
The tibia is slender the shaft much compressed with a prominent ridge.
The cuemial crest is short and not produced downwards on the shaft.
The distal posterior bridge is narrow and oblique.
The tarsoraetatai'sus has a strong exterior crest which constitutes half the width of the shaft.
Measurements.
Inch.
Length of beak from base of CLilmeu  q i    from cere to apex  j 1.20 Depth of beak at culmen .... .87  of premaxillary at festoon .
.75 Length of symphysis .69  of nares .37 Width of palate at festoon .50  of head of humerus .... 1.37  of condyles 1.18  of distal end femur .... .94  of head of tibia .81  of condyles of tibia .... .66   of tarsometatarsus .75 Length of a first phalanx .... 1.12  of seven sacral vertebrse 1.87  of two dorsal vertebrse 1.12 Depth of a dorsal vertebra total .
.
.93   to roof of arch .44  of centrum of roof of arch .
.
.25 Width of    .32 Length of two cervical vertebrffi .
1.12 Depth   to apex neural spine .44  of articular face centrum .17 Width   ... .
.25 PrDc.A.N.S.
1874 Plate IE.
.Trfy P 4 J   f  Conrad's Fossils of the Pebas Group oc.
AN.S.
I 87 4.
PlU J 3.
ZAll ON BRADrrVS  ATELES MD MACACUC 'Prop AN.S.
'rf. 'Plae 14'.
i e d CHAPMAN Oil ATELES.
October G. The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentjnine members present.
Wheat and Chess.
Mr. Thomas Meehan introdnccd a subject which he said had never before to his knowledge been brought directly' to the attention of a scientific bod3' the popular belief that wheat will turn to chess.
The scientific world niitrht well be pardoned for deriding such an idea for if so distinct a genus as Triticum can be found to produce a Bromu.i the most exaggerated notion of the leaping power of nature must be enlarged in considering theories of evolution.
Yet he might sa' he had seen many popular impressions derided b' men of science prove true.
When a boy his agricultural friends insisted that the same toad which would deposit its eggs in water when convenient would bring forth its young alive when deprived of the water privilege.
He had proved the fact b' keeping toads in breeding condition in confinement and counting the toadlets when certainly not more than a few days old.
The idea was once derided by intelligent men but he believed most zoologists now admit that the common toad is oviparous or viviparous according to circumstances.
In like manner in his youth lie saw five young snakes one after another enter the mouth of the parent when alarmed.
'J'his was a universal belief of countrj'people  yet only last year on overwhelming evidence before the American Association was it admitted as scientific truth.
Again during the past year we had seen how a popular belief in regard to an apparent elongation of tree trunks had proved to be true though the popular reasoning was wrong.
We now know that trees may sometimes be lifted from year to ear Iw the gradual thickening of roots growing over a rocky base so that a side branch which in a young tree is opposite to a mark may in time be as much as a foot above it as popular observation contends it sometimes will.
With these things in mind he had held himself open to give even some trouble to get reputed facts with reference to tliis question of chess.
He now exhilited one of several specimens sent him by Mr. Levette of the Indiana Geological Survey and proceeded to point out that there could be no mistake about the branch from the wheat ear being Bromus secalinus. the common chess so far as the palea and glumes were concerned.
In the flowers he had dissected he found no perfect grain to compare with wheat.
In instances previously' recorded there seems never to have been an dispute about the appearance from the wheat head being the real Bromus.
But it had been contended that in these cases an examination had 11 sliown an accidental union of two culms one from each plant and wliicli in some way bad formed an apparent union one with another.
This apieared not to be the case in the present specimen.
In the wheat ear the small clusters of flowers inclosing the ultimate grain came out at each bend of the zigzag rachis.
The spike of chess aiieared to come out at one of these bends the lowermost taking in faet the place of one of these small clusters.
It was not an accidental union of two distinct parts but apparently a substitution of one part for another.
Again the Bromaa secaliuus rarelgets as tall as wlieat especially so tall as this strong looking wheat head had evidently grown.
There was he said another remarkable fact connected with the popular reports.
Man' other grasses grow with wheat as well as B7omus iecolins the common chess or cheat.
It was apparently as easy for any of these to become accidentally conjoined with wheat as this but no case is brought forward.
There was enough in appearance he thought that deserved further investigation.
On Mr. Meehan's motion the specimen was referred to the Biological and Microscopical Section for examination.
Neio Growth of Plants.
Mr. John H. Redfield called the attention of the Academy to some curious facts recently observed b' Mr. C. F. Parker.
On some low marshy ground near the Delaware River below this city was deposited in the spring a large amount of mud dredged from the channel of the river.
The mud was spread to the depth of several feet over a space of more than an acre in extent for the purpose of raising the level.
Later in the season over this whole area sprung up a growth composed almost exclusively of two plants viz. Foligonum 07'ientale an East Indian species which occasionally occurs on waste ground and Clcome pungeiisii West India species of less ft'equent occurrence.
The former plant constituted the mass of the growth though there ma' have been more than one hundred plants of the Cleome scattered among the growtli.
One or two specimens of Quamoclit cocdnea also a naturalized species were likewise noticed.
Mr Parker had also previously observed a similar case upon Smith's Island and also in two localities in Camden where channel mud had been thus deposited.
Mr. Redfield thought it an interesting inquiry as to whence the seeds of these plants originated and how they had survived their long burial in the river mud.
Dr. Leidy thought that as the vicinity had long been used as a place for the deposit of ballast from shijts the seeds might have laid upon the ground previously and have been quickened b' the deposit of the mud.
Mr. Meehan referred to some recent discoveries as to the effect of oxygen in the germination of seeds and thought that perhaps the seeds of these plants protected from air while buried under water might under exposure to the air germinate.
He referred to other cases of the springing up of nevv plants after the deposit of fresh earth and suggested a mode of testing the origin of the seeds.
Dr. Carson and Mr. Aubrey H. Smith called attention to the great change which during late 3'ears had occurred in the vegetation of the neck below the city.
On Asplenium ebenoides.
Mr. Redfield then alluded to the fern known as Aaplenium ebenoides described some years ago b' Mr. Scott from a few plants found on the rock' banks of the Schuylkill above Philadelphia.
Most of our botanists have doubted the validity of the species and have supposed it to be an abnormal or hybrid form originating from Gamptoorus rhizophyUu Walking Fern and Asplenium ebeneum both of which species occur abundantl' at the locality.
Recently a few plants of the same form have been found near Havana Alabama by Miss Tutwiler and in precisely the same suspicious compan.
Her account ma' be found in the Bulletin of the Torrey Club for May 1873.
Recently Mr. A. H. Curtiss of Libertj Va. has received from Alabama a frond of this fern rooting at the apex precisely as the walking fern does.
Mr. Redfield thouoht this fact tended to confirm the doubts already entertained upon the validitof the species.
Notice of some Bhizopods.
Prof. Leidy remarked that since he had made a communication on Deinamceba mirabilia he had had the opportunity of examining a number of additional specimens.
All of them appeared to be variegated with twin spots of green which he found to be due to the scattered joints of two species of desmids of the genus Didymoprium swallowed as food.
He had observed the animal swallow a considerable portion of a 2imcuto
Didymoprium Gremllii.
In another instance he had seen an individual eject upwards of fift' joints o Didymoprium Brebissonii from three different portions of the body simultaneously.
Another peculiarity he had observed in the animal which had previously escaped his notice.
The body appears to be surrounded or enclosed in what might be called an atmosphere of minute spicules which can be seen as a circle a short distance beyond the outline of the bod'.
Prof. Leidy then presented drawings and descriptions of a number of Difflugians which he supposed to be new.
They were mostly found in a pond in Absecom Creek New Jersey and in the sphagnum on the border of the pond.
Most of the same species were likewise found in a sphagnous swamp of Longacoming and in the sphagnum on the border of Lake Hattacawanna New Jersey.
DiFFLUGiA VAS.
Tcst composcd of angular quartz particles generally coarse shape pyriform with the neck constricted where it joins the body fundus obtuse mouth large circular.
Entosarc bright green from the abundance of chloroh3l grannies.
Lenglli of test  mm.
 neck onefourth to onethird the length of the test.
Abundant in Absecom Pond New Jersey.
DiFFLUGiA OLLA.
Test Composed usually of angular Cuartz particles and occasionally of diatorae shells form potlike with a slieroidal body a contracted neck a large circular mouth a reflected i and olluse divergent spines projecting from the fundus.
pntosarc colorless.
Length of test i mm.
Abundantly found with the preceding.
The form is intermediate to Difflugia corona and D. lageniformis of Wallich.
Catharia.
Ditflugians with a membranous structureless test without adherent particles of foreign matter.
Difflugia Catharia papilio.
Test pale yellow transparent compressed pyriform width less than half the breadth border acute mouth transversel' oval.
Entosarc with many chlorophyl globules and attached bj' many bands to the inner surface of the test.
I'seudopods digitate.
Length of test 0.112 mm. breadth 0.072 mm. width 0.032 mm.
The living animal from its varied colors is very handsome.
Abundant in the sphagnum of Absecom of Longacoming and of Lake Hattacawanna ew Jersey.
Difflugia Catharia elegans.
Test pale brown compressed bottleshaped width about onehalf the breadth border obtuse surface with shallow conical depressions  mouth transverseloval.
Entosai'c colorless or yellowish from the food balls.
Length j' mm.
 breadth   width  mm.
Verabundant among the sphagnum of Absecom of Longacoming and of Lake Hattacawanna New Jerse'.
Nebela.
DiflUigians with an areolated test.
Difflugia Nebela ansata.
Test compressed pjriform width about twothirds the breadth laterally obtuse and furnished with a pair of handlelike processes projecting at the base of the neck and extending nearly parallel with and about onethird the length of the bod' colorless transparent  areolae appearing circular or hexagonal mouth transversely oval.
Entosarc colorless or yellowish from the food balls.
Length 0.22 mm. breadth 0.1 mm. width 0.72 mm.
 length of handles 0.04 mm.
A rare form among the sphagnum of Altsecom having only found it twice.
Remarkable for the large hollow handlelike processes of the test.
Difflugia Nebela equicalceus.
Test compressed pyriform the width about onehalf the breadth colorless transparent  circularly or hexagonally areolated laterally acute and with the bod'' carinated.
Carina deep and thick and seen in the broad view of the test as a horseshoe like production with the extremities free and projecting into the interior of the test towards the mouth.
Entosarc colorless or yellowish from the contained foodballs.
Length  mm. breadth 0.14 mm. width 0.072 mm.
Also rare and found in the same locality with the preceding with which it is equallyremarkable from the existence of the singular horseshoelike production.
It resembles the Difflugia carinata of Archer but this appears to be devoid of the horseshoe.
Difflugia Xebela sphagni.
Test pale ellowish compressed ovoid width little more than half the breadth borders obtuse surface reticular mouth large transversely elliptical and with acute commissures.
Entosarc bright green from the multitude of chlorophyl grains  pseudopods numerous digitate Lengtli yyUim.
 breadth J mm.
 width  mm.
Very abundant among the sphagnum of Absecom.
In some specimens the border of the fundus of the test is loaded with quartz particles.
Frequentl the animal is observed in a passive state with the mouth of the test closed by an epiphragm and the sarcode appears as a discoid ball V ''' broad and  mm.
thick.
Difflugia Nebela numata.
Test colorless broadly compressed pyriform about half the width of the breadth borders subacute  surface covered with oval or circular disks resembling in appearance blood disks  mouth transversely oval.
Entosarc transparent colorless or yellowish from the food contents attached by long bands to the inner peripliery of the test  pseudopods coarse digitate.
Length i mm. breadtli y' width  mm.
Abundant in the sphagnum of Absecom and Lake Hattacawanna New Jerse3 A beautiful form.
The discoid areolar structure is very variable and is frequently mingled with more oi' less bodies of linear form.
Difflugia Xebela barbata.
Test colorless circularly areolated slightl' compressed bottleshaped  neck long body ovoid mouth oval surface of test everywhere finely hirsute.
Entosarc colorless or yellowish from the food contents.
Length  mm.
 breadth of body oV mm. of neck ' mm.
 width of bodj'  mm.
Rare in the sphagnum of Absecom New Jersey.
Difflugia Nebela plabellulum.
Test colorless compressed spheroidal broader than long and width less than half the breadth  neck slight or nearly obsolete  surface of test with round oval and bacilliform areolae.
Entosarc colorless or centrally yellowish from food balls.
Length of test J mm.
 breadth j' mm.
 width r mm.
Abundant in the sphagnum of Longacoming swamp New Jersev.
The business of the adjourned meeting of Sept. 29th having been resumed Charles Dutilh George Washington Smith J. E. Mitchell Jno.
Leisenring Charles Parrish Charles Baeder William Adarason Charles B. Baeder Wm.
B. Adamson Charles WPoultney Karl Seller M.D. and Mrs. Amelia D. Hockley were elected members.
H. W. Hollenbush of Reading Pa. Prof. Peter MacOwen of Somerset East South Africa J. Fayrer M.D. of Calcutta and A. L. Siler of Osmer near Glendale Utali were elected Correspondents.
October 13.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
The Seibert Collection of Minerals which was completed in 1820 was received on deposit and ordered to be preserved intact under that name as historic evidence of scientific progress.
Variations in Solanum Fendleri A. G. Mr. Thomas Meehan said that among other agricultural and horticultural ilants the history of the potato was not clearly known.
It was said to be a native of Mexico Chili and Peru but he doubted whether it had been found anj'where beyond all question indigenous.
Solanum FencUeri A.
Gray had much in common with S. tuheroHiim.
The flowers and foliage differed chiefl in being much smaller in all their parts.
He Iiad plants under culture for eight years but could not find any variation in the shape and size of the tubers until this year when thehave legun to vary in the direction of the common potato.
Hitherto the tubers haA'e been round about the size of a large bullet and iugose from the imperfect tuber cells on the surface.
Tliis season the roots have varied in the direction of the common potato.
They are oval and compressed and one has reached a dimension of one inch wide and two inches long and with the skin clear and semitranslucent as we see in more delicate potatoes.
He thinks however that these facts do no more tlian suggest a possibility' of the unity of origin of the Solanum Fendleri and Solanum tuberosum.
The fact that the former tubers will endure a temperature of zero in the ground while the latter was so easil destroyed bfrost might indeed be considered against such possibility unless we couhl conceive of some physical change coexistent with a change of ibrm.
Crystallization in Plants.
Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt remarked that the subject of crystallization in plants though not new to botanists is interesting because of the extreme beauty of tliese deposits and also an account of the obscurity of their origin and true significance in the lifehistorj of the plants.
The entomologist perhaps has need for alarm because some botanists assert that some plants devour the special objects of his study but 1 think the mineralogist might feel equally jealous to learn that the alldevouring plants were busy picking up his cr3'stals from the inorganic kingdom and using them at least to beautify' their own tissues.
I would ask attention at this time to onlv one form of plant159 crystal the cystolith so called because the aggregation of crystals is inclosed in a capsule or cyst within a special cell and is moreover connected with its cell by means of a delicate filament differing in this particular from all other cellcontents.
In our common nettle  Urtica we meet with tlie ordinary form of cystolith.
A simple aggregation of minute crystals probably oxalate of lime nearlcircular in form showing the capsule plainly which envelops them and also the special cell containing the cystolith.
About six hundred fill a line an inch long and four hundred are found in one square inch.
Each cystolith contains about one hundred individual crystals.
At lowest estimate therefore forty thousand crystals exist in one square inch of nettle leaf.
In Pilea muscosa a near ally of Urtica I find a tjpe of C3'stolitli differing widely from all forms heretofore described.
They are elongated and bent in form like an Australian boomerang.
They lie in cells measuring only the q of an inch long and the l wide and so abundant that quite onethird of the entire leaf is occupied with them.
Cystoliths of this magnitude and singular form I believe to be unknown to botanists.
The filament connecting each one with its cellwall is apparent.
What is the significance of these plantcrystals
and there are others more numerous and more beautiful what their office in the life of the plant
what part do they act in supplying the salts of lime potash and soda to the tissues of animals
AYill scientific agri culture answer 
lOOOth of an inch.
The death of Thomas Sparks was announced.
October 20.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyfour members present.
Abies concolor in Colorado.
Mr. Thomas Meehan announced the discovery of Abies Picea of Loudon concolor in Glen Eyrie near Pike's Peak in Colorado by Dr. Engelmann.
When however he explored what was till then an unknown caiion in 1871 and which by right of a first discover' he had named Caiion Engelraann.
after his distinguished Iriend and which name it still retains he found a considerable quantity in that canon also.
He was attracted Ly the light green cones as distinguished from the purilish ones of Ablefi grandis but on climbing the trees and examining the characters he concluded it was but a variation from A. grandis similar to what he was already familiar with in A. balsamea.
Prof. Porter had also found it in Cheyenne Canon in 1872  and if really distinct from A. giandis it is probabl'much more widel3diifused through the Rocky Mountains than has been supposed.
Fertilization of Gentiana.
Mr. Thomas Meehan called attention to the fact that the autumnblooming gentians were now in flower  and a close investigation promised an interesting field to the botanist.
They belonged to the class with gelatinous pollen and whicli was now believed to require the aid of insects in fertilization  but many of our species had closed corollas which seemed to make fertilization by this agency difficult.
In connection with this subject he said Dr. Engelraan had made some curious olservations on the gentians of the Rocky Mountains.
All the large flowered species as Gentiana affinis G.frigida G. Parryi etc.
have the anthers definitely fixed and open outwards towards the corolla while those of the smaller species such as G. acuta and neighboring genera Sioertia and Pleurogyne have the face of the anthers directed towards the ovary at an earl' stage of development but on expansion of the corolla are thrown over the filament and then face outwards as the others.
The stigma is cloven but the lobes do not expand till several hours after the anthers have shed their pollen.
Mr. Meehan finds the anthers of the large flowered eastern species accord with Dr. Engelman's observations on the Colorado ones in having the anthers fixed from the first outwardl at least in all that he has been able to examine.
Variations in Leaves of Ailanthus glandulosa.
Some leaflets gathered from the trees by Dr. H. Leffman were exhibited in which the usual lanceolate form was departed from and a trianguavy hastate or aceriform shape assumed.
Note on Dryocampa.
Prof. Leidy stated that the oaks in the forests of New Jerse' during the last summer were greath' devastated by the Dryocampa senatoria.
In the earlpart of Septemlier in passing along the edge of a forest skirting a cranberry swamp at Absecom New Jersey he had observed multitudes of the Dryocampa lying dead on the swamp and all bristling with the sinaular fungus Aclilva prolifera.
The death of M. Elie de Beaumont a correspondent of the Academy was announced.
October 27.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twent3'five members present.
Chapter XIY. Art.
Y. of the ByLaws was amended to read as follows   Six members shall constitute a quorum.
Except the election of members and corresondents no question other than purely scientific shall be decided at any meeting unless at least twenty members vote  the words  except the election of members and correspondents being added to the original article.
The following paper was presented for iublication  Synopsis of the Muridai of North America.
By Dr. Elliott Coues IJ.
S. A. W. S. Bissel Dr. A. M. Owen U. S. N. James Dougherty Daniel Maul John Rothermel John B. Robinson Charles H. Howell and Mrs. Elizabeth V. Graham were elected members.
Dr. A. E. Carothers of Saltillo Mexico was elected a Correspondent.
On report of the Committee to which it was referred the following paper was ordered to be published  ON A NEW VARIETY OF HELIX.
BY JAS.
LEWIS M.D.
Among the interesting shells observed recently b' Miss Law among the mountains of North Carolina near Ha3esville is a variety of Helix Stenotrema monodon Rackett of which there appears to be no record.
The shells in question present the unmistakable characters of monodon modified in the following particulars The whorls are more flattened than usual making the whole shell flattened and more discoidal than has hitherto been remarked of this species.
The periphery is slightly carinate or onlj' obsoletely carinate specimens vaiying slightly among each otlier in this respect.
The larger number of specimens are marked with a single faint brown band on the peripher3'in which respect may be observed a habit comparable with what has heretofore been remarked of banded specimens of Mesodon elevafa.
The presence of this band on some of the shells imparts a somewhat variegated aspect to the superior portion of the shell.
It is scarcely to be presumed that specific characters will be predicated upon the variable features above mentioned but the variety seems to be so well characterized as to deserve a name hy which to distinguish it and I therefore venture to propose for it the following designation viz.. Helix Stenotrema monodon Racket var.
cincta.
Specimens from near Hayesville Clay Co. N. C are herewith presented in the name of Miss Law.
November 3.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentysix members present.
A paper entitled  On new species of NoctuidjE by Ang.
R. Grote was presented for publication.
The President read the following extract from a letter written by Prof. Edw.
D. Cope and dated  Camp near Naciraiento X. M. Oct. 11 1874  I have been camped for some five weeks in this region with five men forming one of Lieut.
Wheeler's surveying parties.
I find much of interest geologicall paleontologically and archfeologically and have an agreeable location in a country with good water timber and grass and I may add Indians.
The latter are Apaches Utes and Navajoes all friendl'.
I find many remarkable ruins of rude stone buildings of an extinct race with great quantities of broken pottery.
I discovered a ruined stone village of twentyfive houses arranged on the edge of a cretaceous sandstone hogback from six to twelve feet wide only and 250 to 300 feet perpendicular on one side and on the other sloping at an angle of 45 to 60 besides other ruins in regions now entirely waterless.
Dr. F. Y. Haj'den exhibited a series of photographs of ruins similar in character to those spoken of by Prof.
Cope.
The builders were sujposed to be the ancestors of the Moquis.
Wheat and Chess.
The specimen of wheat Ti'iticum with a head of cheat Broimis apparently'' growing from a joint of the former plant which had been presented to the Academy at the meeting of Oct. 6 having been referred to Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt for examination he made the following report After rendering the chaff of both plants transparent and tinting properly so as to render every morphological element distinct for study and after treating the doubtful outgrowth similarly I present tlie tliree specimens to the memlers for study.
I will call attention to only a few points of structure in each.
In the upper glume of the wheat on the inside surface against which the grain lies the cells are large and are bounded at their ends by cellwalls nearly transverse to the long diameter of the cells.
In corresponding cells in cheat the ends of the cells are bounded by oblique lines generally.
In the outer or epidermal cells of both plants silica is abundant the deposit occurring at the ends of the cells bill in granules differently formed in the wheat from those in the cheat.
It is impossible to conve' in words an idea of this difference in form.
In the cheat the silica granules are larger and more abundant than in Avheat.
In the upiier glumes of both plants there are from three to nine veins.
In tlie wheat not more than one vein is bordered with stomata in cheat every vein has on either side a distinct row of large stomata and this peculiarit3of structure is so distinctive that the botanist can pick from a 'bushel of the mixed glumes of both plants all that belong to the cheat without possibility of mistake.
Other points of dissimilarity are obvious but I have stated enough to make a comparison with the doubtful outgrowth.
In this doubtful outgrowth from the head of wheat I find the obliquely ending internal cells in the upper glume in the epidermal cells silica deposits identical in form and position with the cheat and unlike the wheat and every vein is bordered with a row of stomata on either side.
Every morphological element of the outgrowth corresponds in form to analogous elements in the cheat.
1 am compelled therefore to pronounce it undoubted Bromus and not Triticum.
But I would report further.
Seize now very gently this remarkable outgrowth with delicate forceps and out comes the Bronuis from the Triticum and the trick is exposed.
The Bromus has been introduced into the Triticum artificially and the cement employed to make the deception more secure still adheres in flakes to the artificial parasite and resembles in appearances gum tragacanth.
A beautiful fungus moreover has found a nidus in the gum solution while fresh and is not found elsewhere on the wheat.
The stem of the Bromus which was inserted into the wheat bears on its epidermal surface minute outgrowths resembling precisely those on the corresponding parts of the plant which is separate from the wheat.
Now on naturally internal surfaces such epidermic outgrowths never occur I have no hesitation therefore in pronouncing this specimen cheat neither do I think the workman has been expert in his manipulation.
November 10.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentysix members present.
A paper entitled  Description of a new species of Helminthophaga by Harold Herrick was presented for publication.
Mountain Drainage of Eastern Tennessee and Western North Carolina.
Ancient Burial Custom.
Joseph Willcox made some statements in reference to the drainage of the mountain region of Eastern Tennessee and Western North Carolina.
Tlie Blue Ridge there attains its greatest development both in width and altitude its width being from 50 to 70 miles while more than 30 of its peaks attain an altitude exceeding GOOO feet.
The western border range called the Smoky Mountains is as high as the eastern range styled the Blue Ridge  yet all of the streams that drain this region flow to the west cutting deep gorges tlirough tlie Smoky Mountains.
Having visited this region on several occasions recently Mr. Willcox observed that the eastern and central portions of it consist of gneiss rocks while the western portion is composed of other sedimentary rocks.
It is presumed that tlie former was upheaved at a time long anterior to the elevation of the latter and the drainage system having once been establislied to the westward continued its erosion during tlie subsequent elevation of the Smoky Mountains.
Mr. Willcox also stated that when recently in North Carolina his attention was called to an unusnal method of burial by an ancient race of Indians in that vicinit3 In numerous instances burial places were discovered where the bodies had been placed with the face up and covered with a coating of plastic clay about an inch thick.
A pile of wood was then placed on toj and fired which consumed tlie body and baked the clay which retained the impression of the bodj'.
This was then lightly covered with earth.
Notice of Remains of Titanotherium.
Prof. Leidy directed attention to two fossils recently received through Prof Ilayden.
They consist of an isolated last lower molar tooth and a lower jaw fragment containing three teeth.
The specimens are part of a skeleton most of the bones of which were found about one hundred miles east of Greeley Colorado.
The last lower molar tooth is identical in character with that referred to Titanotherium ProiUii Ancient Fauna of Nebraska pi.
xvii.
figs.
8 9 10 except that its outer basal ridge is less well developed.
Tlie fore and aft diameter of the crown is three and onequarter inches the width in front 19 lines.
The teeth of the lower jaw fragment are either the last three premolars or the last two of these and the first molar.
They are like the corresponding teeth of Titanotherium Proutii.
In all the crowns are bilobed.
The series of three teeth measures fore and aft four inches and five lines.
The first of the series measures fore and aft 14 lines the second 16 and the third 21 lines.
A large mental foramen is situated about an incli and a half below tlie interval of the anterior two teeth.
These remains I suspect to belong to the animal indicated under the name of 31egacerops coloradensis Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of the Western Territories.
This from all the evidence I have thus far seen appears to be of the same genus as Titanotherium to which I also suspect the genus Brontotherium of Prof. Marsh and the genera Symhorodon and Miobasileus of Prof.
Cope belong.
Last summer in passing through New Haven I had an opportunity of seeing the fossils referred by Prof. Marsh to Brontotherium.
Among them I saw an incisor tooth which is like one in the museum of the Academy.
Tlie latter specimen accompanied some remains of Tit another ium from White River Dakota.
The crown forms an irregular hemisphere and measures from 5 to 5 lines in diameter.
The examination of the skull described by Prof. Marsh under the name of Brontotherium and an inspection of the skulls exhibited to the Academy last June b Prof.
Cope and referred by him to Symborodon confirmed m' suspicion that these two named genera are synonymous with Titanotheriian.
I also suspect from the cursory examination of the specimens of Profs.
Marsh and Cope that the number of species will probably be reduced to one or two.
Notices of Rhizopods.
Prof. Leidy exhibited drawings of the beautiful Actinophryan Clathrxdina elegans described by Cienkowski and other European naturalists.
It was found abundanth'' on Utricularia at Absecom New Jerse.
The more mature specimens have a brownish or yellowish color.
The spherical fenestrated siliceous shell measures from th to th mm.
in diameter.
The intei'ior Actinophryslike body is about ' vava.
in diameter and gives off a multitude of delicate rays which extend thiough the fenestra of the shell.
The stem of attachment of the shell measures th of a mm.
or more in length.
The maturer specimens frequentl' have others attached to their shell usually one but as many as six weie observed radiating on their slender stems from the parent shell.
These secondary shells are slightly smaller than the others are colorless and ofteu so delicate and transparent that the fenestrate character if it exists is invisible.
In a number of detached specimens of Clathrulina the shell was occupied by a central rayless granular mass from th to 'pth mm.
in diameter.
Prof. Leidy also exhibited drawings of Actinosphserium EichJiornii which though not so common as Adinophrys sol is frequentlj' found in the ponds and ditches in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
It varies considerably in size ranging from jVth mm.
to I ram.
in diameter.
Some exhibit a multitude of rays others a few and some observed of large size alive and active were utterly rayless.
Drawings were also exhibited of Acanthocystis viridis.
This remarkable rhizopod occurs frequently in all the ponds and ditches in the vicinity of the city.
It is either very polmorphous or else perhaps several species may be included under the one name.
Some are green from the chlorophyl bulls occupying tbe superficial part of the bod3 Others exactly alike in all other points of structure are colorless.
From the body project a multitude of exceedingly delicate spines with discoid bases and furcate ends.
Rays also like those of Actinofjhrys project beyond the spines.
Both rays and spines in the immediate vicinity of the body are enveloped in a stratum of exceedingly minute vibriolike siicules.
The green specimens of Acanthocistit independently of rays and spines measure about jJth mm.
in diameter the colorless ones measured about onehalf the size of the former.
Drawings were also exhibited of an Actinophryan of which a number of individuals lived together in colonies.
These are not unfrequently met with in the same positions as Acanthocystis and Actino2hserium.
The species appears to be the same as that recently described by Hertwig and Lesser in the Archiv fur Mikroskopische Anatomie 1874 plate iv.
fig.
1 under the name of Raphidiophrys eJegans.
I have rejeatedly met with the creature in colonies from half a dozen up to forty.
The whole colony moves along with much greater rapidit than Actinophrys sol.
The individuals measure gth mm.
in diameter and project a multitude of rays extending to ith mm.
in length.
In colony the bodies are conjoined by bridges or isthmi through which chlorophyl balls and granules incessantly but slowly pass from one to another.
The bodies and the bases of the rays are enveloped in an atmosphere of exceedingly delicate semicircular spicules.
The animals take their food in the same manner as Actino2'hrys sol.
A colony of thirtyeight was observed to break up into three separate colonies numbering severallfifteen ten and thirteen each of wiiich moved awaj' in a different direction.
Drawings were exhibited of Amoeba qitadrilineata Carter a common species in the waters in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
It is about vgth mm.
in length bgth mm.
in breadth.
The species is remarkable especially for the retention of the four delicate longitudinal folds in all its movements.
Drawings of two other species of Amceha were exhibited which are supposed to diflfer from those previously described.
They were characterized as follows Amceba viridis.
Bright green from the multitude of contained chlorophyl balls.
Form of body irregularly stellate with thick conical pseudopods projecting in all directions.
Sarcodic substance colorless and finely granular.
Neither nucleus nor vacuoles were observable.
Movements slow.
The bod' occupied a space of about 'yth mm.
The chlorophyl grains are nearly of uniform diameter and measure the qUi mm.
Absecom Pond New Jersey Nov. 5 1874.
Amceba tentaculata.
Body spheroidal oval or limaciform projecting a multitude of long conical or fusiform pseudopods of clear ectosarc into which no granules of the entosarc enter  posteriorly finely papillate or with a discoid papillate subdivision Exterior of the body colorless and transparent interior of tlie bod' or entosarc 3'ellowish and spotted brown or green from the food contents.
When moving the animal resembles a seaslug Eolis in its shape and from its many long pointed pseudopods.
At the fore part of the body in progression a large extent of perfectly clear ectosarc precedes the entosarc equal to about onesixth the length of the body.
This is blunt in front and with its divergent pseudopods resembles the head of a slug.
When floating the animal looks like a large Aclinopluyti with thick conical rays.
The animal is voracious and feeds on desmids diatomes and diffnse granular and flocculent vegetable matter.
Length of the body from Xh.
to th mm breadth j't'' o tli mm.
The pseudopods up to yjth mm.
long by xgsth mm.
thick.
Absecom Pond New Jerse3 Frequent from September to November.
On Supposed Spermaries in Amoeba Prof Leidy stated that in an examination of a large Amoeba from Absecom Pond N. J. he had observed a point of structure which he had not previously noticed in any of the species.
The Amoeba generally assumed a globular or oval form from the j to the  of a line in diameter.
It projected from an' part of its circumference digitiform pseudopods np to j'j of a line by the jjj of a line thick.
The granular matter of the entosarc was mingled with a multitude of brown food balls and numerous crystals most of which appeared to be of isometric forms.
The coarser granules of the entosarc rarely entered even the base of the pseudopods.
The uniformly granular nucleus immersed in the entosarc measured about  of a line in diameter.
The contractile vesicle measured 2V of a line AVith a j immersion objective lens there were observed around tiie circumference of the contractile vesicle halfadozen granulated spheres from  to g of a line in diameter.
The grannies of these spheres appeared to be of uniform size and exhibited an active swarming movement resembling the motion of sperniatozoids.
I could not isolate the spheres to examine them more definitely nor could I detect the ordinary spermatozoid form among the closel' swarming granules.
I have suspected that these granular spheres were spermaries 
After having detected them with the j objective lens I could barelj' see them with the i objective.
On the Geology of Certain Lands in Ritchie and Tyler Counties W. Va. Prof Persifor Frazer Jr asked the attention of the meeting while he described as follows the geological features of two tracts of land in Ritchie and Tyler Counties W. Va. belonging to the Acadeni' and which lie had recently been requested to examine as an expert.
The tract in Ritchie County exclusively comprises a tolerably regular parallelogram whose sides run northcast and northwest and whose area includes about seventeen hundred and eightjseven acres divided into unequal parts both by the Hughes River and by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.
The north angle of the property' is distant about half a mile from the station of Cornwallis on the above railroad.
The lands themselves resemble in general character thousands of square miles of territory both in West Virginia and Pennsdvania which are situated in the coal measures.
They ma' be described as very thick deposits of sandstone and shale through whose almost horizontal strata the numerous small streams have cut precipitous ravines to a depth of three hundred and fifty or four hundred feet.
The soil which is what is known in that part of the counti'y as white sand soil is generally light and poor and except in the alluvial bottoms unsuited to the production of fine cereal crops.
These hills and plateaus are covered with forest vegetation of difl
erent kinds the most abundant representatives of which are white red and black oak chestnut oak poplar beech hickory and ash white and yellow pine.
Locust is almost imknown on the tract near Harrisville though frequently met with in the northern part of the count'.
The greatest value of the land is for its production of white oak and poplar especially the former which is cut into railroad ties and barrel staves.
Both the Harrisville and the Tyler County tracts are situated upon the socalled coal measures of West Virginia and the former of these is about ten to fifteen miles east of the town of Petroleum.
So far as the mineral resources of this property the Harrisville tract are concerned the excitement which a few years ago was allayed after an enormous expenditure of money in futile efforts to procure oil in the district embracing Ellenboro' Harrisville and Cornwallis furnishes us with the means of making a very fair estimate of them.
Nothing but oil coal iron ore or clay is to be anticipated and the very numerous boreholes sunk to procure the first of these presents us with seven hundred and fift' feet of measures in no horizon of which is there a workable bed of coal.
The formation with its plates of sandstone and shale is almost horizontal and rolls gently east and west with a dip of 2 or less and though different sections of these hills varied the order of recurrence of their sandstone flags and shale the position of the onl' coal seam found was constant and near the beds of the streams.
The coal bed was opened along a small run entering the south corner of the Harrisville tract in several places.
In order to ascertain the true position of this deposit with reference to the rocks on the propertywhich lie about onequarter of a mile northwest of the largest opening a line was run connecting together the south corner of the tract the borehole and this opening.
This line was onl' a rough approximation to the truth the distances being obtained by pacing and the altitudes by the eye 12 but it was clearly evident that the coal underlay tlie whole tract where it had not leen washed out by the streams.
I could obtain no exact information as to its value nor even a fair sample of it the excavations iiaving been nearly filled with dirt.
If this bed siionld prove to be the same as that opened near Ellenboro' it will probabh' average from fourteen inches to eighteen inches in thickness and may be of good qualit3 but cannot for many years add any great value to the lands under vvliich it occurs.
This is tlie only coal of which antiiing is known although the borehole of which I am about to speak developed a bed of black slates at a much lower level.
The borehole alluded to was sunk by Mr. Moats and lies about three hundred feet inside the southeast property' line and about thirt feet north of the road.
Tlie record of this exploitation was as usual not kept and the account which follows taken entirely from remembrance of the alternation of strata must be accepted with great allowance and is rather valuable as indicating what was not found than for any positive results ascertained.
Shales and loose stuff 
50 feet.
Very hard white rock like marble without grain only got through three or four inches in a day .
.
.
4  Sand rock black slates sand rock and fire clay .
.
 
Soap stone e.e.
soft slaty rock .
.
.
.
810  Beneath the black shales occurred a sand rock of which there were three in all.
At three hundred feet enough oil was reached to see and smell and it seemed of good qualit3 Starting from a station high up the hill at the southern corner of the property a rough section gave 
covered with debris 70 feet.
Reddishgray sandstone 
feet  70  
 
j Greenish sand rock  
 or  9 9 u jo'J Massive plate of sandstone 30  Flat sandstone in bed of creek.
This brings the rocks down to about the level of the borehole and renders it probable that the first fifty feet through which the hole was sunk included the first sand rock.
It will be remarked that in the section here described no place is given to the eighteeninch coal bed which occurs a little higher up the run.
Its position is to be looked for in the fift' feet through which Mr. Moats first passed.
He ma not have noticed it or he ma' have forgotten it  or which is very probable these fifty feet below the general level of the bank of the run may consist of loose debris which the stream has torn out and scattered along its course where the soft coal would have disappeared.
It would be dislo3'al to science to hazard an opinion on the true horizon of these measures without the most careful instrumental work and a thorough comparison of the labors of the Pennsylvania and Ohio geologists as well as the more recent sections of Stevenson and White.
It has been stated that the measures are almost horizontal having a dip of about 2 or less from low axes which are generally north and south Mr.
I. C. White in his preliminary introduction to his Notes on the Upper Coal Measures of Western Virginia and Pennsylvania read before the Lyceum of Natural History of New York and reprinted from their Annals speaks of the  Dividing Ridge as a waterslied between tlie tributaries of tlie Monougahela and those of the Oliio which occuiies the median line of a gentle anticlinal axis which passes across tlie coal measures from north to south.
There are without doubt many of these gentle north and south axes in the southwestern coal measures at least in Tyler Ritchie and Pleasant Counties and one of them on tlie western limits of the Academy's Harrisville tract sheds the oil as well as the water.
Geologically there seems to be no reason to expect awy great development of mineral resources.
Tyler County Tract During the entire time occupied by the examination of the lands of the Academj extensive forest fires prevailed and the whole region was densely clouded with smoke which not only made it impossible to get any extended view of the countiy but so completely obscured the sun that at 3 P.M. it was not possible to indicate its position in the sky.
This smoke sliortened the day and prevented mc from visiting certain tracts where the fires were prevailing.
The socalled Tyler County tract lies across the border of Tyler and Ritchie Counties from the headwaters of the largest tributary to McKiin Creek across the  Dry Ridge to the banks of Hughes River.
It contains more bottom and therefore more arable land than the Harrisville tract and what parts have not been settled on contain an abundance of fine timber.
What I have said of the structure of the Harrisville tract applies largely to that of the Tyler County tract though the poverty of the country in coal in the latter must be assumed on different grounds from that of the former where numerous borings made in the search after oil served to show the absence of coal within a reasonable distance below the surface while here there are no such exploitations.
About three miles southsouthwest of the lower corner of the TylerRitchie tract on the property of Mr. Campbell I discovered a thin bed of coal which from what I could learn agreed in general description with the thin seam opened in the base of tlie liills near EUenboro'.
It would be rash to generalize from a hurried observation of a bed beneath the surface of a run a continuity wuth the pllenboro' bed eight miles distant but so far as I could carry the measures southward by a rapid transit over them they bore out the identit'.
If this be truly the same thin seam which crops out near Ellenboro' and which I have supposed to be the same as tliat on Mr. Moat's farm there is no difficulty in prophesying an absence of coal and oil from these Tj'ler Count' lands.
If the seams are not the same the structure must be so complicated as to need a special stud'.
The chauces however are very much against the existence of valuable mineral deposits on the TylerRitchie tract.
Prof Lesley remarked that he had not had an opportunit' to speak with Prof. Frazer before the presentation of his report but that he had seen Mr. Stevenson lately who informed him of a very important observation which he had made in the region of the Harrisville tract.
Mr. Stevenson had satisfied himself of the existence of a fault on the Hughes River which brought up the lower measures horizontally against the middle barren group of coal measures which lay westward of them.
Prof Lesley regretted the absence of Mr. Stevenson who could of course much better explain his own views on this subject but he believed that this fact had a most important bearing on the geology of the whole region.
Prof. Frazer asked how the horizontal structure of this faulted district could be satisfactorily accounted for to which Prof. Lesley replied that it would necessitate the supposition of a vertical drop of the region west of a north and south line of fracture parallel to and perhaps synonymous with the  Oil Break anticlinal which is only a few miles further west.
In reply to a question as to his opinion of the probability of the sanclstone of the downthrown region being the representation of the Mahoning sandstone.
Prof Lesley said that he understood Prof Stevenson to hold that opinion.
The Committees to which they had been referred recommended the following papers to be published 
