DESCRIPTION OF TWO NEW FOSSIL SHELLS OF THE UPPER AMAZON.
BY T. A. CONRAD.
The Pebas group of the Upper Amazon was first discovered by Prof. James Orton in 1867, who obtained a collection of the remarkable shells, some of which were first described by Mr. Gabb.
Subsequently, at request of Prof. Orton, Mr. Hauxwell collected other specimens, and Prof. Steere obtained some new species, besides a very large number of several species of Pachydon.
Prof Orton, having revisited the region in which the Pebas group occurs, has found two new forms which he has forwarded to me to describe.
These new shells belong to fresh-water genera, and help to define the nature of the habitat of the gi'oup.
They confirm the opinion I advanced in the preceding paper, that it was a basin of fresh water to which brackish water had access at times.
The Hemisinus herein described occurs crowded in the clay in such perfection that the species must have lived and died on the spot, and as the living shells of the genus inhabit fresh-water rivers of South America, very far from salt water, they are as much freshwater shells as are those of Melania.
Some of the shells are water-worn, and there is abundance of small fragments of shells in the claj^, in which respect it resembles some of the Miocene beds of Virginia.
The Pebas clay in all the localities is crowded with specimens of Issea Orfoni, I. lintea, Liris laqiieata, all of which I believe to be fresh-water shells of the family Melaniidse.
The two shells described in this paper were found at Iquitos, about 100 miles west of Pebas.
Family UNIONID^.
HAPLOTH^RUS, Conrad.
Eqnivalve, hinge margin straight, the cartilage area very broad and thick, hinge edentulous, anterior muscular scar small, narrow, and deeply impressed, accessory situated under the primary scar.
This is a large, very thick shell, laminated and pearly like Unio, and is remarkable for the thick, broad hinge area.
It comes in fragments, so that the entire outline is unknown.
The anterior accessory scar is differently situated from that in Anodonta, which is on the posteriox* side of the primary impression.
The latter is very much smaller than in an Anodonta of the same size.
H. capax.
PL 12, figs.
1, 2, 3.
* Ovate,?
thick and ponderous, inflated; umbo prominent, rounded ; beaks distant from anterior extremity ; valves somewhat contracted near the middle towards the base.
Prof. Orton remarks that he saw many fragments of this shell, and, therefore, it probably lived in company with Pachydon, but the lamina of the shell separate so readily that fragments only are obtainable.
The shape of the shell is evidently somewhat like that of a TRIQUETRA.
HEMISINUS, SwaiDson.
H. tuberculiferus.
PI.
12, fig.
4.
Turreted, elongated, volutions 9, laterally straight ; 3 prominent revolving tnberculated ribs on each volution of the spire, except two or three nearest the apex ; last volution with 9 or 10 revolving lines, unequal in size ; a fine carinated line borders the upper margin of the suture, which is indistinctly defined ; aperture short.
A beautiful species, very distinct from any living shell of the genus.
It occurs often very perfect, with the exception of the labrum, which is broken, in every specimen I have seen, from the chalky nature of the shell, not generally from attrition.
PACHYDON, Gabb.
P. tenuis.
PI.
12, fig.
5.
Outlines representing extremes of variation.
P. .
PI.
12, fig.
6.
As there is only one specimen of this form, I am uncertain whether it is a distinct species or a variety of P. tenuis.
In my last paper, for Mylitoides read Mytilopsia.
June 2.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Eighteen members present.
The thanks of the Academy were tendered to Mr. Alfred B. Durand for a life-sized portrait of his father, the late Elias Durand, presented this evening.
Habits of the Orchard Oriole.
Mr. Thomas Meehan stated that he was not familiar with the latest knowledge in ornitholog}', that not being a special study with him; but if Wilson^s Ornithology contained all that was known of the habits of the orchard oriole Oriolus mutalus he might say that the bird did not confine itself solely to insect food.
He liad on his grounds a large specimen of the Staphylea trifolia, which, when in bloom, was a favorite resort with humblebees and humming-birds, and the oriole took its share of honey from the flowers as well.
It did not rest on the wing as the humming-liird did, but sought a lower branch from which it could leisurely extract the sweets from the flowers above.
He had thought it possible that the bird was in search of insects among the flowers, but a careful examination proved otherwise.
Poisonous character of the Floioers of Wistaria Sinensis.
Mr. Meehan remarked that there was a popular belief that the flowers of the Wistaria sinensis were destructive to bees.
He had himself seen hundreds of dead bees under large flowering plants.
He was struck with the fact this season, that none were dead under similar circumstances.
The flowers were continually visited b}' the honey bee, and others, without, so far as he could see, any fatal results following.
It was clear, therefore, that, whatever might be the cause of the death of these insects under some circumstances, it could not be from the honey alone.
GroiL'th of the Cuicus arvensis, Hofl".
In regard to the I'apidity with which plants sometimes grew, Mr. Thomas Meehan pbserA-ed that, though it was well known that the Canada thistle spread surprising]}', there had been no figures, giving its exact growth, placed on record.
In the first week in May, IStS, he sowed a few seeds.
By the first week in June the little plants were well above the ground, and about to push out their stolons.
They continued to radiate from this centre in every direction till the first week in September, when they had reached a distance of six feet, covering a circle of twelve feet in diameter, the space being profusely filled with plants thrown up from the creeping stolons.
This gave an average of about three-fourths of an inch of growth per day ; equal to maize or other rapid-growing vegetation above ground.
June 9.
* Prof. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., made the following remarks : During a recent trip to Missouri I had an opportunity of visiting and personally examining the Pilot Knob, and Iron Mountain, and Mine La Motte districts, in company with two of the assistant geologists Prof. Potter and Mr. Gage.
There is much in this district, and in fact in most parts of Missouri, to interest the student of geology from east of the Alleghanies: for example, the variations in the character of the porphyry, which is the archpean according to Prof. Pumpellj^ or the azoic member of the Missouri series.
This porphyry carries several deposits of ore, both veins and beds, as has been ably pointed out in the recent geological survc}^ of the State by Prof. Pumpelly.
Tliis, and the magnesian limestones which overlie it, form the principal part of the surface in the southeastern part of the State.
Mine La Motte is situated in St. Francois County, about ninety miles nearl}'^ due south of St. Louis.
There are extensive works put up on this property, and the whole was sold to an English company two j^ears ago for $.3,000,000, but the sale could not be ratified owing to a law of Missouri which prohibits foreigners from holding property in tiiat State.
At least such was the information given to me.
The deposits of lead and copper and nickel ores at Mine La Motte, part of a great belt about one hundred miles wide which crosses the State from southeast to northwest, lie in the limestone.
At Mine La Motte there is a profuse occurrence of nickel-bearing minerals, and especially of millerite, which is found in stellate, acicular, and radial crystals on the sui'face of many of the lumps of ore.
The works here, before they were burned down, treated the ores in open American hearths, and brouglit out matt wliich was shipped to Swansea.
It is said, on competent authority, that a galena exhibiting a peculiar blue color (like that found on the surface of much peacock ore), contains cobalt.
The cause of this color, and also its connection with the contained metal, are not perfectly understood.
Abnost all of the galena of the district is colored in this way.
I present also specimens of iron ore from Iron IMountain, Missouri, where it occurs in irregular veins, intersecting the porphyry mountam in all directions.
This mountain covers at its base about seventy acres, more or less, and is furrowed by deep cuts near its summit ; some of tliese to a depth of eighty to one hundred feet.
The best and purest ore is that which was found lying on the surface of its slopes, and of this there is still a very large quantity; but the large boulders have been almost all removed, while that which remains is so finely divided and so mixed with the clay and soil that any ordinary method of separation would make it too expensive.
Lately, the California hydraulic mining has been applied to win this ore, with great success.
Water is pumped through large hoses which are led up the sides of the hills, and the debris is washed down through sluice-boxes and over small falls, which agitate it sufficient!}'
to shake the ore from the dirt and allow it to deposit at the foot of the hill by virtue of its higher specific gravity, in receptacles provided for it.
The remaining ore is obtained by blasting, is loaded on a gravit}' railway and carried to the foot of the mountain, where it is dumped, three or four tons at a time, over a shoot which precipitates it some eight or ten feet, upon the flats of the Iron Mountain Railroad Company, which are awaiting it.
The shock as this heavy weight strikes the cars is great enough to cause them sometimes to tilt over on two wheels.
How much it increases the wear and tear I was unable to ascertain.
This ore contains from 65 to 68 per cent, metallic iron, associated with 0.031 per cent, to 0.11 per cent, phosphorus and 4 to 4.5 per cent, silica, and a trace of sulphur.
The quantity exposed is enormous, but was stated by Mr. David Thomas, of Catasauqua, not to equal in quantity the celebrated Cornwall mines of this State.
The ore from Pilot Knob is much more sandy than that from Iron Mountain.
It occurs in a bed dipping with the general dip of the country rock, and inclosed within the porphyry out of which the knob is formed.
The formation of this ore is a most interesting study, and the only plausible theory seems to be that of lateral replacement, a case of metasomatism wiiere the porpliyry, having become slaty in structure, and less capable of resisting the solvent, has been replaced along the line of strike, and only in such laminated parts.
Tiiis ore is banded in appearance, and is almost, if not quite, invariably hematite.
June 16.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the cliair.
Twenty-five members present.
Notice of some Fresh-wafer and Terrestrial Ehizopods.
Prof. Leidy stated that among the amoeboid forms noticed by him in the vicinity of our city, tliere was one especially remarkable for the comparatively enormous quantity of quartzose sand wliich it swallowed with its food.
The animal might be viewed as a bag of sand !
It is a sluggish creature, and when at rest appears as an opaque white, spherical ball, ranging from |^ to | of a line in diameter.
The animal moves slowly, first assuming an oval and then a clavate form.
In the oval form one measured f of a line long by I of a line broad, and when it became clavate it was f of a line long b}' |^ of a line broad at the.
advanced thick end.
Another, in the clavate form, measured | of a line long by ^ of a line wide at the thick end.
The creature rolls or extends in advance while it contracts behind.
Unless under pressure it puts forth no pseudopods, and the granular entosarc usuallj^ follows closely on the limits of the extending ectosarc.
Generally the animal drags after it a quantity of adherent dirt attached to a papillated or villous discoid projection of the body.
The contents of the animal besides the granular matter and many globules of the entosarc, consists of diatomes, desmids, and confervas, together with a larger proportion of angular particles of transparent and mostly colorless quartz.
Treated with strong mineral acids so as to destroy all the soft parts, the animal leaves behind more than half its bulk of quartzose sand.
The species may be named Amceba sabulosa, and is probably a member of the genus Felomyxa, of Dr. Greef (Archiv f. Mik.
Anat.,:s., 1873, 51).
The animal was first found on the muddy bottom of a pond, on Dr. George Smith's place, in Upper Darby, Delaware County, but has been found also in ponds in New Jersey.
When the animal was first noticed with its multitude of sand particles, it suggested the probability that it might pertain to a stage of life of Difflugia^ and that by the fixation of the quartz particles in the exterior, the case of the latter would be formed.
This is conjectural and not confirmed b}-^ any observation.
A minute amoeboid animal found, on Sjnrogyra, in a ditch at Cooper's Point, opposite Philadelphia, is of interesting character.
The body is hemispherical, yellowish, and consists of a granular entosarc with a number of scattered and well-defined globules, besides a large contractile vesicle.
From the body there extends a broad zone, which is colorless and so exceedingly delicate that it requires a power of 600 diameters to see it favorabl3% B}'' this zone the animal glides over the surface.
As delicate as it is, it evidently possesses a regular structure, though it was not resolved under the best powers of the microscope.
The structure probably consists of globular granules of uniform size alternating with one another, so that the disk at times appears crossed by delicate lines, and at others as if finely and regularly punctated.
The body of the animal measures from ^\ to g^^ of a line in diameter, and the zone is from ^ J^ to 5^^ of a line wide.
The species may be named Amoeba zonalis.
The interesting reseai'ches of Prof. Richard Greef, of Marburg, published iu the second volume of Schultze's Archiv f. Mikroskopische Anatomie^ on Araoebse living in the earth (Ueber einige in der Erde lebende Amoehen, etc.
), led me to look in similar positions for Rhizopods.
In the earth about the roots of mosses growing in the crevices of the bricks of our city pavements, in damp places, besides finding several species of Amoeba, together with abundance of the common wheel-animalcule, Rotifer vulgaris, I had the good fortune to discover a species of Oromia.
I say good fortune, for it is with the utmost pleasure I have watched this curious creature for hours together.
The genus was discovered and well described by Dujardin, from two species, one of which, G. oviformis, was found in the seas of France ; the other, the G. Jiuviatilis, in the River Seine.
Imagine an animal, like one of our autumnal spiders stationed at the centre of its well-spread net ; imagine every thread of this net to be a living extension of the animal, elongating, branching, and becoming confluent so as to form a most intricate net; and imagine every thread to exhibit actively moving currents of a viscid liquid both outward and inward, carrying along particles of food and dirt, and you have some idea of the general character of a Gromia.
The Gromia of our pavements is a spherical cream-colored body, about the -i-^th of a line in diameter.
When detached from its position and placed iu water, in a few minutes it projects in all directions a most wonderful and intricate net.
Along the threads of this net float minute naviculae from the neighborhood, like boats in the current of a stream, until reaching the central mass they are there swallowed.
Particles of dirt are also collected from all directions and are accumulated around the animal, and when the accumulation is sufficient to protect it, the web is withdrawn and nothing apparently will again induce th animal to produce it.
From these observations we may suppose that the Gromia TERRicoLA, as I propose to name the species, during dry weather remains quiescent and concealed among accumulated dirt in the crevices of our pavements, but that in rains or wet weather the little creature puts forth its living net which becomes so many avenues along which food is conveyed to the body.
As the neighborhood becomes dr}', the net is withdrawn to await another rain.
The animal with its extended net can cover an area of nearly half a line in diameter.
The threads of the net are less than the ^otoo^^ ^ ^^^ inch in diameter.
Bemarks on the Revimjication of Rotifer vulgaris Prof. Leidy remarked that during the search for Rhizopods, having noticed among the dirt adhering to the mosses in the crevices of our pavements many individuals of the common wheel-animalcule, liotifer vulgaris^ he had made some observations relating to the assertion that the}' might be revivified on moistening them after they had been dried up.
Two glass slides, containing, beneath cover glasses, some dirt, exhibited each about a dozen active living Rotifers.
The glass slides were placed, on a window ledge of my study, the thermometer standing at 80.
In the course of lialf an hour the water on the slides was dried up and the dirt collected in ridges.
The next morning, about twelve hours after drying the slides, they were placed beneath the microscope.
Water was applied and the materials on the slides closely examined.
On each slide a number of apparently dried Rotifers were observed.
Tliese imbibed water and expanded, and some of them in the course of half an hour revived and exhibited their usual movements, but others remained motionless to the last.
The same slides were again submitted to drying, and from one of them the cover glass was removed.
They were examined the next day, but several hours after moistening them only two Rotifers were noticed moving on each slide.
I next prepared a slide on which there were upwards of twent}' actively moving Rotifers, and exposed it to the hot sun during the afternoon.
On examination of the slide the following morning, after moistening the material, all the Rotifers continued motionless, and remained so to the last moment.
From these observations it would appear that the Rotifers and their associates became inactive in comparatively dry positions and may be revived on supplying them with more moisture, but w^hen the animals are actually dried they are incapable of being revivified.
Moisture adheres tenaciously to earth, and Rotifers may rest in the earth, like the Lepidosiren, until returning waters restore them to activit3^ Prof.
Cope mentioned the capture of a young Balsena cisarctica^ of fort3'-eight feet in length, in the Raritan River, near South Amboy, on May 30th.
The skeleton was buried and would be preserved in some museum.
He examined the whalebone, of which there are 245 laminae on each side of the mouth.
The color is black and the hair is fine, long, and has a brownish tinge ; length of longest plate with hair, 48 inches.
The gum is 11 G inches long and 11 inches deep.
He was informed that the whale was entirely black, and the dorsal line without irregularities.
Prof.
Cope exhibited mounted crania of some gigantic horned mammalia of the Miocene of Colorado, viz., the Symhorodon bucco, S. aUirostris, S. acer, and S. tHgonoceros.
He explained the distinctive features of this genus as compared with Titaiiotherium, exhibiting typical specimens of the latter from the Academy's museum, showing four inferior incisor teeth, while the 7 lower jaw of Symborodon does not possess any.
He pointed out that these animals had small brains, with few convolutions, wliicli were separated by deep fissures occupied by thin bony laraince, and that the falx and tentorium are well developed.
He pointed out the relatively small size of the brain, and that at least half of the length of the cranium is occupied by enormous, undivided frontal sinuses.
Each of these communicates with the nasal meatus by an elongate foramen, and enters the base of the corresponding horn core.
He stated that similar sinuses exist in the cranium of Eobasileuft^ and enter the basis of the middle pair of horns in the same manner.
June 23.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-one members present.
On the Pelvis of Hadrosaurus.
Prof. B. Waterhouse Hawkins, having completed his model of Hadrosaurus at Princeton College, took the occasion to call the attention of the Academy to his success in placing certain fugitive bones belonging to Hadrosaurus, and also to its English cousin Iguanodon.
It might lie allowable to remind the meeting of the fact that in 1868, when he had made and presented the restoration of Hadrosaurus now in the museum, he then recognized the homologous character of a bone described by Dr. Leidy in his monograph of the Cretaceous Reptiles, to that which had become a fugitive bone in Iguanodon, the English representative of Hadrosaurus.
These bones had been for many years appointed to the place of clavicles by Prof. Owen and Dr. Mantel, of England.
When Mr. Hawkins made his large restoration of Iguanodon at the Crj'stal Palace, in 1853, his first difficulty was to find room for these so-called clavicles in his model, a task which he was obliged to abandon, as they were twice the size which the natural arrangement of the limbs rendered possible.
A few days previous to his sailing for America he found that Prof Huxle}^ had been studying the same problem of their true position in the animal's body, concerning which he delivered an address before the Royal Institution.
Prof Huxley, on this occasion, transposed the pseudo-clavicles from the pectoral to the pelvic arch, where he arranged them either as pubic or ischiatic bones, and placed them as in the ostrich and rhea.
At the same time this transposition was taken advantage of to suggest the probability of Iguanodon walking on its hind legs, thus accounting for some of the larger forms of bipedal footprints, and justifying the establishment of the new order Ornithosauria.
On the arrival of Prof. Hawkins in America, after studying Dr. Leidj^'s description of Hadrosaurus, he found that Dr. L. had anticipated Prof. Huxley's transposition of the pseudo-clavicles, which he suggested in the above-named description might more probably represent the ischiatic bones of Iladrosaurus.
While engaged in the Central Park, in developing the external form of tiiis former inhabitant of New Jersey, Mr. Hawkins found it necessary to renew the whole question as to the component parts of the pelvic arch of these giants, wliich he practically tested with casts from the actual fossils, endeavoring to ascertain their true position according to both Dr. Leidy's and Prof Huxley's views.
In this attempt he utterlj^ failed, finding it impossible to place these fugitive bones in such relationship to the gigantic femur as would enable either animal to make footprints similar to those found both in England and America.
This being the case at the moment when the iconoclastic Central Park Commission declined allowing the further prosecution of paleozoic studies in the Park, the inquiry was not continued until the opportunity was afforded by the trustees of the New Jersey College at Princeton, who desired to possess for their new museum one of Mr. Hawkins's restorations of an extinct animal of New Jersey.
For this purpose they selected Hadrosaurus, which enabled Mr. H. to again investigate the true position of the bones in question, which he has finall}^ placed as the analogues of the abdominal plastron-like supports, found largely developed in the pelvic region of the alligator.
This position of the bones, when united with the bipedal carriage of the body, suggested immediately an analogy between these fugitive bones and marsupial bones of the Didelphidse.
These remarks were illustrated by Mr. Hawkins in his usual manner by crayon drawings on the slate.
Prof.
Cope stated that he was still of the opinion that the evidence derived from Lselops and Megadactylus rendered it necessary to believe in the backward direction of these bones in Hadrosaurus.
Prof.
Cope described a species of Dipnoan fish of the genus Ctenodus from the coal measures of Ohio, based on specimens placed in his hands by Prof. Newberry, as follows : The top of the head is covered with angular plates or scuta, arranged in the following manner on the region presented.
Two s^'mmetrical scuta occupy the median line, one in front of the other.
One of these is a longish coffin-shaped hexagonal, with the suture with the other concave.
The latter is more ovoid, broad and convex next the first mentioned, and somewhat more contracted at the opposite extremity.
Beyond this are two shields joining by a straight suture on the middle line ; besides this one, they have two concave sutures for scuta, at the farther end two concave lateral sutures, and a straight one to the adjoining median scutum, whose suture is also concave.
On each side of this median plate is a large area surrounded before outwards, and behind, by smaller scuta, three in front, two at the side, and two behind.
Commencing with tiie first.
No.
1 has already been described.
No.
2 is small, oval, and antero-posterior ; No.
'> is an antero-posterior pentagon, with the narrowest side inwards.
No.
4 is a similar transverse pentjtgon.
No.
5 is an antero-posterior pentagon, which presents its shorter lateral facet inwards.
No.
6 has a similar character, but is smaller and with more definite angles.
Another series of scuta is seen outside of these at one end of the series.
Three of this set bound the front and side of each of the median pair above mentioned, leaving a short facet next its fellow unaccounted foi*.
The sculpture consists of radiating ridges and' tubercles, which are most broken near the centres of the scuta.
The tubercles and ridges are obtuse and low, and the latter do not inosculate.
An angular depression commenced at the middle of each lateral area, and extends across the middle line at the point of junction of the paired and single median scuta.
M. Width of vertex at middle scuta .
.
.
.0.176 Length of single median scute .... .048 June 30.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fifteen members present.
Permission having been granted (the meeting being for business), Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., made the following remarks : In the investigation of the chemical formulas of minerals, the student will meet with two kinds of difficulties.
The first is the great variations in the analysis, and the next is the connecting together in the formula for the particular mineral of different compounds by the sign -|-.
The first of these difficulties is a necessary consequence of the manner of formation and occurrence of minerals in tthe midst of solutions of other materials, and consequently subjected to mechanical and chemical conditions tending to add impurities to it, (whether by percolations tlirough its open joints, crevices, and pores, or by oxidizing or partially decomposing it).
The first results of the best processes of mechanical separation merely reduce to.
a low per cent, the admixture of one mineral with another of greatly difterent sp.
gr., and even the best known chemical methods can never succeed in producing an absolutely and theoretically pure substance.
So much less probable is it that the deposits of compounds by the mechanical and chemical processes which a change of the conditions of the surrounding nature have caused, and which have not been bottled up in impervious glass jars, but left to the action of the rain and sun and subterJ ranean solutions, should even acquire more than a relative purit}'.
So that when we glance over the anal^^sis of the same mineral made by different cliemists, it is often hard to say which elements are those characteristic of the species.
(See Glaucon-ite, Conarite, Beudantite, etc.
etc.)
In some cases, the admixture of the two minerals can be proved to be mechanical (gold dust in magnetic sand) ; in others it is merely strongly suspected, but the mineral cannot be separated by mechanical means (gold in pi/rites, etc.
), while in the great majority of cases the formula maker contents himself with two arrangements of the atoms present connected by the sign +5 ^iit^ each representing a different mineral.
It is this that forms one of the greatest difficulties to the student, at the present state of science, in forming any probable conception of the mutual chemical relations of the various elements represented.
Such an hypothesis is certainly tenable in two cases: 1st.
When the resulting mass cannot be classed under any of the crj'stal systems (limonite, etc.)
and the mineral is set down as amorphous or crystalline; and 2d.
Where the percentage of one or two of tlie supposed compounds is so small that the morphological properties of that which greatly preponderates are assumed by the whole mass.
( Quartz containing scales of specular iron or needles of rutilite.)
But when a mineral cr3^stallizes distinctly in one crystal sj^stem and is deliberately assumed to be made up of two others, each crystallizing in a different one, the case is exceedingly perplexing to the mind.
Yet the greater number of all the formulas determined by chemists exhibit this anomaly.
It was not surprising that this should be the case at a time when the electro-polar theory of Berzelius was unquestioned, and the bases and acids were placed opposite each other frequently separated by the -f sign like the partners in a Virginia Reel, and it was thought necessary to make them analogous b3' dividing the oxygen between them.
CaO, SO3 (anhydrite) or CaO -\SO.j which has a crystal form differing from that of S0 and CaO seems to justify (Ag.,S),, + Sb.^S., (proustite), for in this latter case the mineral is rhorabohedral (hexagonal) while one of its constituents crystallizes isometric and the other rhombic.
It is true that this mineral belongs to the class of those of metallic habit, and is therefore opaque, and thus its optical properties cannot be determined, but if it were transparent we should be under the necessity of recognizing the power of a mineral which can only pi'oduce the ordinarily refracted my + one that can produce two extraordinary rays to form a mineral which can give rise to one extraordinary ray, and so of pleochroism, etc.
In this case the fancy is pleased by the accidental coincidence of the crystal form of the 0-4-2 resultant with the average of the other two ^!1-^ = 1 ; but we know there is no basis for such a, thought, and besides in other cases the union of two simply crj'stallizing minerals produces one of more complex morphology.
Thus our authorities tell us that sternbergite which crystallizes orthorombic is to be written chemically Ag,,S -j(FeS)^ -{FeS.,, or in other words, is composed of three minerals, two ol^ which (Ag.,S and FeS.,) crj'stallize in the isometric system, and the third has no place in nature and no name.
I propose at a future meeting of the Academy to call the attention of the mineralogists to several formulas which, though new, seem to fulfil all the conditions of agreement with analysis and the ncTvest developments of theoretical chemistry.
The following anatomical notes by Dr. Chapman were read : Disposition of the Latissimus Dorsi, etc., in Ate.les Geoff royi {Kiihl) and Macacus Bhesus {Desviarest).
Frequently the attention of anatomists is called to the abnormal arrangement of parts, such as variations in the disposition of muscles, arteries, etc., and by comparison with other animals what is abnormal, variable, in a higher animal is usually'' found to be normal, constant, in a lower one.
Supposing the theory of the evolution of life to be true, that the higher animals are the modified descendants of the lower, we have some explanation for the occurrence of such abnormalties, these variations being reversions to ancestral types.
An interesting illustration of this view is seen in the occasional occurrence in man of a muscular slip, running from the latissimus dorsi to the internal condyle of the humerus.
This muscle, which is of very rare occurrence in the human subject, is constant in monkeys, among others in the spider monkej' or Ateles, as sliow^n in Plate 13, Fig.
1 (6).
Another variation met with so frequently in the human subject that surgeons have their attention called to it with reference to the ligation of the main arteries, is the presence of a muscular slip, passing from the latissimus dorsi across the axillary arterj' and nerves to the pectoralis major.
This muscle, Plate 13, Fig.
2 (c), is constant in the Macacus, which also exhibits the muscular slip (6), just referred to in Ateles.
On the supposition that man and the monkeys are the descendants of a common stock, we may expect to find such variations recurring like other family traits.
Flexor Brevis Digitorum in Ateles Geoff royi {Rube).
I take the opportunity of calling attention to the arrangement of the flexor brevis digitorum in a sjjider monke}^, the Ateles Geolfroyi.
By looking at Plate 14, we see that tendons 1 and 2 are the continuation of the muscular bell}' rising from the calcaneum, that tendon 3 results from the union of two muscular slips, one from (o), the other from the tendinous portion of the flexor longus digitorum, while tendon 4 comes only from tendon of flexor lona-us digitorum.
This arrangement of the tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum is somewhat difierent from that observed in other New World monkeys (Platyrrhini and Arctoppithecini) or those of the Old World (Catarrhini).
Rete Alirahile in Bradypus Didacfylus.
Of the man}'' peculiarities in the organizations of the sloths, one of the most interesting is the breaking up of the arteries into rete mirabile.
This is well seen in the upper extremity of a two-toed sloth {Bradypus Didacfylus) which recently died at the Zoological Garden, Philadelphia.
While the axillary arterj^ is seen to continue its course as the brachial, diminished, however, in its calibre, it gives off numerous branches which divide and subdivide.
The main artery with the surrounding plexus and the median nerve passes through the internal condyle of the humerus, Plate 13, Fig.
3.
In this latter respect it differs from the three-toed sloth, as may be seen by comparison with the beautiful plates of Prof. Hyrtl.
This interesting disposition of the bloodvessels is also seen in the femoral arteries of these animals.
Yarious explanations have been offered for the rete mirabile of arteries.
Thus in the Cetacea the dividins: and subdividing of the arteries appear to serve as reservoirs of arterialized blood, enabling such animals as the porpoise, etc., to remain for a long time under water.
In the sloths and slow lemurs this disposition of the bloodvessels seems to be in relation with the slowness of the circulation, fluids travelling less rapidly through a number of small vessels than one large one.
On report of the Committee to which it was referred, the following paper was ordered to be published :
