REPORT ON THE BRACHIOPODA OF ALASKA AND THE ADJACENT SHORES OF NORTHWEST AMERICA.
BY W. H. BALL, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Having during the last ten 3'ears bad an opportunity of examining nearly all the known material, much of which is derived from the collections of myself and party during the period mentioned, I am able to present what appears to be a tolerably complete synopsis of the species inhabiting the northwest coast from Santa Barbara Channel, California, to the Arctic Ocean.
To this I have added the results of some stud}^ of the general subject, regarding the relations of certain groups of species and a hj'pothetical explanation of certain very singular facts.
TEREBRATULIDiE.
1.
Terebratulina unguicula.
Terebratula unguicula, Cpr.
P. Z. S. Feb. 14, 18G5, p. 201, fig.
1-4. Cooper, Geogr.
Cat.
Cala.
Moll.
p. 3, 1866.
Terebratulina unguicula, Dall.
Cat.
Recent Brach., Proc.
Phila.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., p. 177, 1873.
T. juniore " Terebratulinse capiti-serpenfii^^' simillima, sed latiore ; costis conspicuis, interdum obtusioribus, aliis intercalantibus ; testa adulta valva inferiore subelongata, inflata, marginem versus baud planata; umbone valde tumente, latiore, aperta; striis radiantibus conspicuis ; marginibus granulatis, undulatis ; intus araento majore, latiore, annulato, bisinuato, in testa juniore dorsaliter interrupto.
Lon.
15 mm.
; Lat.
12 ram.
; Diam.
9 mm.
San Oiego, Cal., to the Aleutian Islands.
San Pedro, Cal., Cp.
; Monterey, Cp.
; Neeah Bay, W. T., Swan ; Victoria, V. Id.
Lord, J. Richardson; Port Etches; Shumagin Islands; Unalashka; Dall.
Range, low water to 100 fathoms, those from deep water the largest, adhering to shells and stones.
Thirty-eight specimens examined.
This species is readily separated from T. caput-aerpenlis^ T. Japonica and other species, which strongly resemble it externally, by the broad loop which is usuall}' open instead of being closed as the genus requires.
However, it finally becomes closed in fully adult specimens which reach the size of T. caput-serpentis.
In describing it from immature examples, Dr. Carpenter was led by this peculiarity to describe it as a Terebrofula, and it was a number of3ears before I was able to find a fully developed specimen.
All that I have seen from southern localities have been immature.
2.
Terebratella frontalis.
T er ebr at ula frontalis, i\Iidcl.
^Malak.
Eos.
Ill, p. 2.
Sib.
Reise.
II, p. 241, pi.
18. fig.
9-14, 1847.
Terebrutella frontalis, Dall.
Cat.
Rec.
Bracli, 1. c. p. 184.
T. suborbiculari, solidula, calcarea, increment!
periodis irregularibus aspera, sordide lutescente ; valvis convexitate aequalibus; linea marginali rectiuscula integerrima ; valva dorsali postice producta, vix recurva, late truncata, foramina magno, latins aperto, interrupto ; area cardinali augusta, utrinque interiora versus dente cardinali terminata; valva liaemali suborbiculari aut transversim ovali, sulco mediano nuUo; apoplij'sis '•'' Terehratellse''^ formis : Lon.
18 mm., Lat.
18 mm., Diam.
ventr.
9 mm.
Western Aleutians from Atka Island westward: the Okhotsk and Japan Seas.
Atka, Amebitka, Attn, Dall; Okhotsk Sea, Middendorf; Japan Seas, Oapt.
St. John.
Range from low-water mark to fort^' fathoms.
Sixty-five specimens examined.
The rude appearance, aslien color, and remarkably wide foramen distinguish this species from any other of the genus.
3.
Terebratella occidentalis.
T. occidentalis, Dall, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., 1871, IV, p. 182, 1871, pl.
I, fig.
7.
Waldheimia Grayi, of Cala.
authors, not of Davidson.
T. transversa, rosacea aut miniata, costis radiantibus angnlatis ornata; valvis flexuosis, convexiusculis lateraliter angnlatis; margine cardinali lente curvato; apice vix cminente; foramine magno, interrupto, latins aperto ; cardo et apoph^'sis ut in "T(?rebratella;" area cardinali augusta, lata, conspieua.
Lat.
18 mm., Lon.
12 mm., Diam.
ventr, 5 mm.
San Francisco to Montere3', Cal.
Pigeon Cove, Stearns ; Monterey, Dall, Canfield, Cooper.
Near low-water mark, to — ?
fathoms.
Five specimens examined.
This rare species externally resembles, in its sharp ril)s, transverse form, and deep crimson coloring, the above-named species from Jaiian, but it is a Terebratella^ and authentic specimens of T. Grn;/i show that species to be, as it was described, a Waldlieiinia.
The color and dcopl}' notched margins distinguisli it from the common northern T. transverso^ the onl}' species with which it is likely to be confoiindeil.
It is probable that careful search ■would reveal the habitat of this species, when it might be found more abundantly.
Most of the specimens known have been picked up on the beach.
4.
Terebratella transversa.
Terebrad.ila transversa, Sby.
Tlies.
Conch.
1, p. 2G1, pi.
73, fig.
114115, 1846.
Not of Gould, Proc.
B. S. X. H. vii, p. 323, 18G0.
Terebratella raurina, Gould, Proc.
B. S. N. H. ill, p. — , 1850.
Exped.
Shells, p. 468, pi.
44, fig.
583.
Terebratella caurina, Gld.
Olia Conch, p. 97, 1863.
Cpr.
Sup.
Rep. B.
As.
p. 636, 1864.
Terebratella transversa, Dall.
Cat.
Eec.
Brach.
1. c. p. 185.
T. variabilis, fusco-cinerea, transversa, convexiuscala ; costis angulatis numerosis interdum bifurcatis plerumque radiata; margiue ventrali flexuoso ; apice acuto, angular!
; rostro brevi, curvato, foramine magno, interrupto ; area cardinali elevata, lata, planata, margine carinato ; apophysis curta, '"'• Terehratellse^'' aliis simillima.
Lat.
25-40 mm., Lon.
1(5-25 mm., Diara.
ventr.
5-15 mm.
Shumagin Islands to Oregon.
Coal Harbor, Shumagins; Semidi Islands; Kadiak ; Port Etches; Sitka Harbor; Dall.
Victoria, Y.
Id., J. Richardson, Hepburn ; Neeah Bay, Swan ; Puget Sound, Kennerly; Oregon, U. S. Expl.
Exped.
Range from lowwater mark to twenty fathoms.
Sixty specimens examined, including Gould's t^'pe.
This abundant species is very variable in form and size ; the northern specimens are the largest.
Some are as transverse as a Spirifer.
Gould's T. fransvei'sa from Japan was never figured, and cannot now be identified.
It was not this species, which Las in an}-^ case the priority.
Sowerby's figure is sufliciently characteristic to render its identification with Gould's caurina tolerably certain.
The transverse form in most cases, the ashen-gray color and coarse ribs render its identification eas}'.
5.
Laqueus californicus.
Terebratula californica, Koch, Kuster's Martini, viii, pi.
26, figs.
21-23.
Waldheimia californica.
Gray, B. M. Cat.
p. 60, No.
8, Cpr.
Sup.
Rep. Br.
As.
p. 568, 636.
Laqueus californicus, Dall, Am.
Journ.
Conch, vi, p. 123, 1870; pi.
7, fig.
f., pi.
8, fig.
9-10.
Cat.
1. c. p. 186.
T. magna, rhomboideo-ovalis, valde inflata, tenuis, rufescente, striiilis incrementi solum insculpta; A-alva hremali ventricosa, sulco mediano nuUo, margine postico vix angulato ; valva doisali postice rostrata, foraraine minimo, integro; rostro brevi valde incurvato; apophysis ut in '•^Laqueus.
''^ Lat.
45 mm., Lon.
55 mm., Diam.
35 mm.
Port Etches, Prince William Sound, to Catalina Island, Cal.
Port Etches, Dall ; Victoria, J. Richardson; Catalina Id., Cooper.
Eange from fifteen to one hundred and twenty fathoms, the larger specimens generally from deep water.
Twelve specimens examined.
This species may be recognized by its large size, smooth rufous exterior, and small and complete foramen.
It somewhat resembles Waldheimia venosa, from Cape Horn, but has not the strongly marked venations, and is of a different form and color.
It is everywhere rare, owing to its deep-water habitat.
6.
Megerlia Jeffreys!.
Jsmeniu ?
Jefreysi, Dall, Am.
Journ.
Conch, vii, p Go, pi.
xi, fig.
7-10, Mar.
1871.
Megerlia (Ismenia) Jeffreysi, Dall, Cat.
1. c. p. 187.
Waldheimia cranium, juu., Friele (ex parte) Vidensk.
Forh.
p. 2, pi.
1, f. 9 a-i, 1875.
Testa parva, lenticularis, tenuis, orbiculato-trigona, cinereoalba ; valva minor convexiuscula, suborbiculata, margine recto, apice inconspicuo, vix angulato; valva major convexior, apice truncato, brevi, recto, foramine modico, interrupto; area cardiuali inconspicua; apoph^-sis tenuissima, plerumque exilis, " Jl/egerlise sanguiniis,^^ simillima.
Lon.
10 mm., Lat.
10 mm., Diam.
ventr.
4 mm.
Deep water, X. E. Atlantic ; Semidi Islands to Victoria in the Pacific.
N. E. Atlantic, 155-345 fathoms, Jeffreys, with Wahlhehnia cranium.
Semidi Lslands; Port Etches ; Dall.
; Victoria, V.
Id., J. Richardson.
Sixteen specimens examined.
For so rare a shell this has an extraordinar}range.
It much resembles the young of the last species, but never attains mucli greater size than half an inch in diameter, and has an incomijlete foramen.
The color varies from ashy yellow to rufous.
The specimens from the northwest coast were obtained in from fifteen to twenty fathoms water.
It is probable that it has frequently been taken for the young of other species, and that a careful examination of small specimens would much extend our knowledge of its distribution.
The septum is generally almost evanescent.
7.
Magasella aleutica.
MagaxeUa aleutica, Dall., Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., Dec. 1872, p. 302, pi.
I., fig.
6.
Cat.
1. c. p. 188.
T. parva, suhinflata, solida, orbiculato-trigona, rosacea ant concentrice rubido-picta; valva minor convexa, suborbiculata, margine leviter sinuato, apice inconspicuo ; valva major convexior, apice erecto, truncato, conspicuo, foramine amplo interrupto ; area cardinali distincta, apophysis tenuissima, septum conspicuum munita.
Lon.
10 mm., Lat.
9 mm., Diam.
ventr.
4 mm.
Aleutian Islands to Port Etches.
Kyska Id.
; Adakh Id.
; Atka Id.
; Unalashka Id.
; Shumagin Ids.
; Port Etches ; Dall.
Range from low water to ten fathoms.
Fifty specimens examined.
This little species differs externalh' from the 3"oung of T. frontalis^ onl}' by its rosj' color and neater projiortions ; from young L. caJifornicus by its open incomplete foramen, and from the last species hy its greater solidit3', bright tints, loop, and prominent septum.
It has somewhat the aspect of M. inconspicua, Sbj'., from Xew Zealand.
8.
Magasella radiata, n. s. M. testa minuta, cuneata, triangulata, radiato-costata ; hand inflata; costis radiatis circa xvi.
ornata; lineis concentricis sparsim striata; foramine aperto, interrupto; deltidium nullum; apice subacuto; testa lutea aut cinereo-alba.
Lon.
0.5 mm., Lat.
o mm., Lon.
neural valve, 4 mm.
Shell small, nearly triangular, the greatest width near the anterior margin, which is gentl}' rounded ; somewhat flattened or compressed, with about sixteen moderately strong radiating ribs or costse on each valve.
These are continuous from the beak to the margin, not divaricating; some lines of growth well marked; foramen incomplete, large ; apex rather acute ; color wax}or ashy-gray.
Interior as usual in this genus, with a strong septum.
Shell quite solid and strong.
Length 0.2 in.
; of neural valve 0.17 in.
; width 0.2 in.
Popoff Strait, Shumagin Islands ; one specimen, with 31.
Aleutica adhering to stones at lowest spring tides.
This species is quite distinct from an}' other in the region.
It is sc 111}) til red somewhat like T. transversa^ from which it is sufficiently distinguished by its form, absence of meditiu flexure, size, compression, and apophyses.
It also recalls in some respects M. Patagonica, which has divaricating costse, and is of a different shape.
RHYNCHONELLID^.
9.
Rhynchonella (Hemitliyris) psittacea.
Anoi/iid psittttced, Gmclin, Sys.
Nat.
3348.
HemithyrispsiWicen, D'Orb.
Pal.
Fran.
Ter.
Cret.
IV.
p. 342, 1847.
Rhynchonella psittacea, Auct., Rve.
Conch.
Ic.
pi.
1, fig.
2, a-c. Jlemithyn's psittacea, Dall.
Cat.
1. c. p. 196.
Rhynchonella Woodwnrdi, A.
Ad.
Dav.
P. L. S. 1871, p. 309.
T. subglobosa, postice acuminata, tenui, cornea, nigricante; valvis inoeqiialibus, radiatim concinne sulcatulis; linea marginali ex uuibone declivi, denium ascendente et antice valde sinuata; valva dorsali postice acuta, recurva, antice deflexa, sulco mediano, lato, area cardinali inconspicua, deltidiis augustis, ad latera foraminis coalescentibus ; valva hfemali, ventricosiore, dentibus cardinalibus internis ex umbone porrectis, recurvis duobus ; margine val varum integerrimo.
Lon.
25 mm., Lat.
22 mm., Diam.
ventr.
16.5 mm.
Boreal and Arctic Seas.
On the northwest coast from Fuca Strait to the Arctic; Japan ; North European Seas; ever^-where abundant.
This well-known species is of circumpolar distribution, varying in depth from low-water mark to two hundred fathoms or more.
In examining specimens from the shores of Alaska, I thought at first that by their coarser growth and grooving they were distinguished from Norwegian specimens.
But after an examination of several hundreds of specimens, I have been forced to conclude that the differences noted were only individual or local peculiarities.
I have observed in a few instances the brachial •' arms" protruded from the shell in living examples.
LINGULID.a3.
10.
Glottidia albida.
LliKjula albida, Iliinls, Voy, SulpU.
p. 71, pi.
19, fig.
4, 1844.
Glottidia albida, Dall.
Am.
Journ.
Couch, vi.
p. 157, pi.
8, fig.
1-6, 1870.
Cat.
1. c. p. 204.
T. oblonga, levi, complanata, antice truncata, albida sen bruuneo-maculata ; valva major, intus lainiuis duobus ex umboncm divaricatis; valva minor, lamiiio uno, mediano, prope apicem munito; pediculo pleiiimque brevi.
Lon.
test.
25 rara., Lat.
10 mm., Lon.
tot.
50 mm.
Monterey, Cal., southward.
Monterey, Dall.
; Santa Barbara, Stearns, Newcomb ; Catalina Island, Cooper; San Diego, Hemphill; ten to sixty fathoms, mudd}bottom, rarely on tidal flats in mud at lowest water.
This species has not been found to the northward of Monterey, though it may yet turn up somewhere.
It is usually not over three inches in length, peduncle included.
Like other species of Lingiilidfe, when young it is free, and burrows in the mud.
Adult specimens, with favorable opportunity, often fasten themselves to a pebble or fragment of shell by the distal extremity of the peduncle.
This has been also observed witli Glottidia pyramiduta^ Stm., in Florida, by Mr. F. B. Meek, though that species had been supposed to be alwa3's free.
It would seem probable, from information communicated to me by Mr. Meek, that these creatures are of rapid growth, and live at most but one or two seasons.
It is the only species of the Lyoj^omata j-et found on the northwest coast.
The following species, or supposed species, have been erroneously referred to the northwest coast, sometimes from mistaken identity and sometimes from other causes.
a. Terehratulina caput-serpentis, L., in error for T. unguicula, Cpr.
Real habitat.
North Atlantic.
b. Waldheimia Grayi^ Davidson, by erroneous identification with Terehratella occidentalism Dall.
Real habitat, Japan.
e. TerebrafeJla Coreanica, Ad.
& Rve., b^' erroneous identification with T. transve7'sa, Sby.
Real habitat, Japan Seas.
d. TerehrafeUa pulvinata, Gld.
Erroneous habitat caused by confusion of U. S. Exploring Expedition labels.
Real habitat, Tierra del Fuego and vicinity.
e. Discina striata, Schum., as Orbicida Evansi, Davidson, "Bodegas."
Real habitat, Cape Palinas, W. Africa, and vicinitj'.
In this connection it may be allowable to call the attention of naturalists to certain facts connected with the group of arthropomatous brachiopo Is which have been with me for some 3ears a subject of reflection.
Not having been able to suggest any satisractovy explanation of the relations which appear to exist between certain groups of the Terebratulidse, I desire to draw the attention of others to them, in the hope that some solution may be arrived at, and to place the facts on record.
In 1871 I proposed the name of Magasella for a group of Terebratulidse, mostly composed of small species, and characterized, among other things, by an incomplete foramen and a high septum, standing up from the middle of the brachial valve, and to which the loop is attached or appressed for a considerable portion of its length.
This section of the family has been recognized as valid by several competent naturalists.
There are known, in all, about eleven well characterized species of this group, beside one doubtful species, 31. crenulata Sb3'.
Four of these species have been described by m3-self, and most of the others, not recently described, have but lately been discriminated from species of Terehralella^ etc.
In working over the group certain facts become prominent, whicli cannot be without significance when carefully considered.
These facts may be formulated as follows : — I.
Each species of Magasella (with the exception of its generic characters of apophj-ses and foramen) has a more or less pronounced likeness to some species of another section of the Terehratulidse.
This likeness, in some cases, approaches identity when the generic characters and size are taken out of the question.
II.
The species resembled are invariably' members of a section of the family possessing a long or complicated loop, and usually a median septum.
In fact most of them are Terebratellas.
III.
The species resembled, usually though not invariabl}', inhabit the same faunal region as the particular species of Magasella which may be under consideration, and are often found living with the latter in the same localities.
lY.
When there is an abundant species of Terehratella, for instance, on any coast, it is almost invariably accompanied b}' a species of Magasella of similar specific characters.
This law is so invariable in well exi)lored regions, that I should feel hardly any hesitation in predicting the existence of a comjianion Magasella, in a region not thoroughly explored, when the l)revaience in that region of a species of the section Mogasinae became known.
Y.
The genera Terebrafella and Waldheimia being the most abundantly rei)resentcd of any of the genera of recent brachiopoda, ma}' be said to represent to some extent the most full}' develoi)ed of the brachiopods ; an inference borne out by the complication of the loop as compared with that of other groups.
The loop of Magasella, being the most complicated of any (except the few species of Megerlia), may thus be the latest exhibition of evolution in this direction.
The genus Magas (with which Mannia of Dewalque may perhaps be s3'nonymous) is not very closely related to Magasella^ and leaving it out of the question it may be added that, so far as known, Ilagasella occurs only in a recent state ; another argument for its comparatively modern evolution.
In illustration of the above, the following parallel lists may be adduced showing the seA^eral species of 3IagaseU a with their companion species of other groups and the region to which they belong.
Such as exhibit speciall}' remarkable similarity in specific characters are marked with an asterisk ; those exliibiting only a general resemblance are not so marked.
3IagnsenaAdainsi,DiiY.
?
Japan.
3L aleutica, Dall.
Laqueus californicus, Koch.
Alaska.
M. Cumingi, Dav.
?
New Zealand.
31.
Evansi, Dav.
Terebratella (?r»e>i/a, Dillw.
New Zealand.
M. Jiexuosa, King * Terebratella domata^ Gmel.
Patagonia.
31.
Goiddii, Dall.
Waldheimia Grayi^ Dav.
Japan.
31. incon^picua, Sby.
* Terebratella rubicunda, Sol.
New Zealand.
31. leevis, Dall.
* 'Terebratella jJuloumta^Gld.^ Patagonia.
31. patagonica, Gld.
* Terebratella dorsata, Gmel.
Patagonia.
31. radiata, Dall.
Terebratella <?
'ansuersa, Shy.
Alaska.
31. sitffiisa, Rve.
?
Unknown.
AVith some hesitation I add also — 3fegerlia Je^reyiii,T)a\\.
* Wald.
cranium, Miill.
N.E.Atlantic.
3Iegerlia sanguinea, Gh.
* Wald.
picta, Ch.
Indo-Pacitic.
Of the three species queried, 31.
Adamsi resembles TFaM/i(?i»u'a (rra?/2, jun., in a general way except in coloration; 31.
Cumingi is very peculiar, unlike an}' other recent species ; and the habitat and probable companion of 31. su/ftisa are alike unknown.
I have not included the section Imnenia (31egerlia) in my preliminary remarks, but the species, cited above, present, in a less ' A third, related to puUinuta as that is to Uzck., is Waldheimia venosa, Sol.
marked manner, similar peculiarities.
The companion of Ismenia Jefreijsi, on the Alaskan coast, would be Laqueus californicus, to which the Alaskan specimens show some similarity; wliile those from the X. E. Atlantic offer similarities which are very marked with the 3'onng W. cranium.
Xevertheless, except a slight difference in color and solidit}-, there are no reasons other than geograi^hical for separating the Atlantic and Pacific shells which I have called I. Jeffreysi.
With regard to W. jncf.a^ I can only judge from figures and the remarks of descriptive authors, who all point out its similarit3' to T. sanguinea.
Both are ludo-Pacific in distril)ution, and have been reported from Japan.
In this connection it may be noticed that the Maga^eUa and its companion do not always occupy the same region at all points, but do usually meet at some common point in their distribution.
In the first portion of the list, the most striking instance of similarity is that which is shown by Magasella inconspicua and Terebra'ella rubicunda, jun.
These appear absolutely without differential specific characters, though the generic characters of the individuals compared may be clearly marked.
It must be clearl^'^ understood and borne in mind, that the similarity' between the Magasella and its companion is usually only remarkable when the young of the latter is compared with the adult Magasella.
The adult companion shells frequently acquire characters belonging to maturity which, though too intangible to be of specific value, much obscure the original resemblance.
At first the idea suggested itself, as a matter of course, that Magasella (and Megerlia) was an immature form, especially as it wants the median brachial coil as do the immature Terehralellse} The evidence against this hypothesis seems to me to have greater weight than that in favor of it, which latter chieflyarises, as far as Magasella is concerned, from the similarit}' of specific characters, and greater or less agreement in geographical range.
Since the preceding portion of this article was written, I have been made ■ This paper had been prepared and read before the Buffixlo meeting of the Amer.
Assoc, up to the above point, when the paper by ]Mr. Ilerniau Friele, published in the Vldensk.
Selskab.
Forh.
for 1ST.
'), was received from the author, and afterwards supplemented by a series of his specimens.
The subsequent portion has since been recast to more fully present the whole subject.
aware that a species of Jlegerlia (subg.
Ismenia) has been claimed as the 3'oung of Waldheimia cranium by Herman Friele.
I will defer the examination of this special instance until the general case can be presented.
If Magasella be the 3'onng of the various forms herein denominated "companions,'' 1st, the distril)ution of any two species so related to each other should absolutely coincide ; 2d, the young should all be 3Iagasellae ; the adults (barring dwarfs), all of the "companion" genus; 3cl, actual study of the embryology and 3'oung stages should be able to trace the edentulous stage into the Magasella stage, and that into tiie final " companion'' stage.
Finall\we should expect, with some show of reason, that the relations of the one to the other in development should be in harmony with the development of the group as a whole in geological time and organic differentiation.
Tiiese expectations, though reasonable, from analogy in a multiplicity of other organisms, arc not absolutely to be insisted on, while the three preceding propositions are absolute requirements.
What agreement exists between the facts and these requisites?
1st, as regards distribution : There is abundant evidence that the Magasella and its companion are not inseparable.
For instance, M. aleufica and Laqueus californicus meet onlj' about Port Etches, which is the southernmost limit of the first and the northernmost limit of the second.
M. aleutica in that part of its district, where it is most abundant, has no associate brachiopod of its family except a Terehratulina.
The same is probably true of M. radiata, which is found at the extreme northern limit of T. transversa^ and is absent where the latter flourishes in abundance.
In the second group, W. picta is reported from but one localityin Japan, while Megerlia sanguinea is rather common there; with regard to their joint occurrence at the Sandwich Islands I am a little suspicious that the Megerlia ma}' have been taken for the Waldheimia b}' those unfamiliar with the apophyses, as 1 have seen large numbers of the former from that locality, but not a single Waldheimia.
Again Megerlia Jeffreysi appears to be common in the Xorth Sea and North Atlantic, and is not rare in the southeastern portion of Alaska and British Columbia, reaching from tlie Semidi Islands to Puget Sound, while its Atlantic companion Wald.
eranium and the genus to which it belongs' are unknown in the Pacific district above described, and its Pacific associate has not been found noi'th or west of Port Etches.
It is impossible to say whether similar discrepancies occur in the distribution of the other species, as the regions they inhabit have not j^et been investigated with any thoroughness.
2d.
As regards the young and adult forms: Of several of the species of 3Iagasella, the adults, or at any rate the largest specimens which have come to hand, are nearly or quite as large as the "companion" when also adult.
This is especially true of the t3'pical species of Magasella^ M. Evansi^ of which I have a specimen full}' as large as the usual size of T. cruenfa^ and much larger than some of the 3'ounger specimens of cruenta, which have the typical loop of Terehratella proper.
The same is true of M. Jlexuosa as related to Terehratella dorsata, ; and Pacific adult specimens of Megerlia Jeffreyf^i are as large as the usual size of W. cranium in the Atlantic.
Nevertheless it is true that the 3Iagasellse are usually smaller tiian their " companions.''
I have recentl}' had the opportunity of examining a large series of young Terehratella ruhicunda from Xew Zealand, and also a lot of Magasella inconspicua from the same locality.
No two "companions" are more nearly identical in specific characters.
In fact no one can separate thera without examining the apoph}'ses.
Yet in the 3'oungest stages of both (as well as the adults) the generic characters are clearly and unmistakably defined.
Mr. Davidson has kindly informed me that he has had a similar experience with T. cruenta^ and has come to an opinion that it is highly improbable that the Maga.sella is an immature form; in fact there seems to be no good reason for adopting that view of the matter.
Again, in this connection, attention must be called to the fact that sometimes two Magaaellse will have only one "companion" species between them, as M. Jlexuosa -f HI.
Patagonica versus Terehratella dormta, and one Megerlia has two companions^ one in the Pacific and the other in the Atlantic.
There are also some whose " companions" are unknown, or which may be without companions, as 3Iegerlia truncala in the ]\[editerranean (a sure case) and Magasella cumingi in New Zealand.
Both of these are such remarkable forms that it is almost ' W. cranium has been erroneousl}' accredited to Japan.
unreasonable to treat them as if possibly immature.
In fact, iu regard to all the better known species of Magasella, those who have studied them most will be the last to admit that they are anything but mature organisms, and, by analog}-, it is natural to suppose that other species less known, but i^resenting equal marks of maturity, are adult also.
3d.
In relation to the progressive development.
Of course this is practically' the test of the whole question, but it may be fairly claimed that it is a test which must be applied to each individual species before the question can be considered settled.
Data are few and far between on this branch of the subject.
Embryological material to a considerable amount is available, but mostly relating to the species with short apoph3'ses, or belonging to other families.
Morse has shown that the loop of Terehratulina begins as two spikes at the cardinal margin, and the two spikes increase iu length, and finallj' coalesce in the median line.
I have observed the same thing in Terehratula cuhensis.
It is self-evident that the loop of Waldheimia^ when adult, is merel}^ an extension and reflection of the ideal loop of Terehratula, and the inference therefrom would be that its development progresses in the same way.
This opinion I am, at present, inclined to adopt.
In the section JIagasinae, where all the species have the loop supplied with an additional support in the form of a septum, a ditl'erent state of things is to be found.
The septum is the first part of the skeleton to make its appearance.
In Terehratella transversa {caurina, Gld.)
the youngest specimens, a twentieth of an inch in diameter, showed a septum bifurcate at top and notched on the anterior edge.
The anterior part of the loop is completed or nearly so, before the lower longitudinal processes are complete from the hinge to the septum.
In Magasella aleutica the fty has a strong septum, entire and not bifurcate, before any of the remainder of the loop is developed.
In Megerlia Jejfreyai the j'oungest specimens I have seen (-j'^ of an inch in diameter) have the loop well developed, and (whether this is an abnormal feature or not, I am not prepared to sa}) laterally compressed so that the longitudinal parts of the loop arc proportionally closer together (in most eases) than in larger specimens, and the septum is proportionalljstronger and larger.
In a large proportion of the well-grown specimens of this species, there seems to be a tendency for the septum and other delicate portions of the loop to become abortive, but this T shall farther discuss later.
In all the Magasellae the septum is the strongest and most permanent part of the skeleton.
In Terehratella spitzhergensis we have a species which seems to have just stopped short of being a 3IagaseUa, and Wald.
Davidsoniana, Seq., seems to have a tendency in the same direction, while the strong septum of Wald.
septigera only needs a pair of transverse processes to make it a Terebratella.
I have not seen ver3'3'oung specimens of iagueus calif ornicus ; the 3'oungest Terebratella frontalis which I have seen agree in the development of septum and loop with T. transversa, Sby.
It seems, tlierefore, that the early development of some of the "companion" species is incompatible with the idea of their 3'oung stages agreeing with Magasella.
If we assume that what is true for two species of Terebratella is also true for the rest, six species of the seven MagaseUse known to have "companions," will have been taken out of the doubtful category'.
I feel sufficiently certain that 31. aleutica, on geographical grounds, cannot possibly be the young of Laqueus califoi'nicus.
There are then remaining one species of Magasella and two of Megerlia, which have Waldheimia " companions."
Of the younger stages of Waldheimia we have yet no positive information.
Mr. Friele in his paper previously referred to, and which I know by the plates onl}', as it is in the Norwegian language, which I have not attempted to translate, appears to have primarily assumed that the Megerlise were the j'oung of Waldheimia cranium.^ because of their external resemblance and co-ordinate distribution as far as known to liim.
But on the examination of a good series of young llegerlia he found a state of things which seemed to confirm his first assumption.
Mr. Friele found the smaller specimens conforming to the general type of Megerlia.
Those with a pronounced septum he referred to W. septigera, but my own impression is that these merely exliibited not unusual individual peculiarities.
To me, in examining the specimens, the transition from the one to the other, as regards the septum, seemed ver^^ gradual.
lie found larger specimens, in which the upper processes connecting the reflexed portion of the loop with tlie longitudinal bands of the looi), were abortive.
In tliis case the loop renuiining was generieally that of Terebralella.
In others, again, the septum had ceasetl to be connected with the transverse processes, and the latter in some eases had become disconnected from one another.
In this stage only the remnants of the transverse processes remained to distinguish the loop from that of a Waldheimia.
Hence he very naturally concluded that he had before him the stages of development of a Waldheimia, which must necessarily be either cranium or septigera, no other species being known from that region.
The result was his paper.
I am far from denying that this ma}^ possibly be the case.
At any rate, Mr. Friele is entitled to great credit for calling attention to these very interesting facts.
Thanks to his kindness, I have been enabled to examine a series of nineteen specimens of Megerlia of different ages, which, with a number in my own collection from the northwest coast, enabled me to make a pretty thorough study of them, and incidentall}' to confirm the general accuracy of his rather formal, but still characteristic figures.
It seems to me, however, that another hypothesis will explain them, if not equall}'' well, 3'et in greater harmony with the analogies of the case, and, taking the geographical distribution of Megerlia Jeffreysi into account, with greater probabilit}' of accuracy.
In the first place it is to be noted that the specimens offered to me an absolute gap between the long characteristic loop of W. cranium and the broad, elevated, rather short loop of the 3Iegerlia.
Even in the absence of the missing parts the loop was totally unlike that of W. cranium,^ and if adult would as a Waldheimia be specifically distinct from W. cranium.
Secondly, all the specimens showed a remarkable weakness and tenuity of the loop even where complete; it seemed as if the abortion of i)art of the loop was caused by an absence of lime ; or as if the specimens, growing rapidly, and necessarily being obliged to dissolve the loop and redeposit it on a larger scale {a, process constantly going on), had been unable to make the latter part of the process keep pace with the former.
There was nothing to indicate that the loop was not rather an unfinished Megerlia than one in a process of metamorphosis.
Some Alaska specimens in the National Museum are much larger and stouter in everjrespect, than the largest of the supposed metamorphic specimens, and also quite equal to the ' Except a few spechnens, Avhich differed from the rest, and were undoubted youug (but not smallest) specuneus of W. cranium.
12 smallest typical W. amiium, hut they show no degradation of the Megerlia t^'pe of loop.
I have examined this subject in a good deal of detail, because I believe that in it lies the key to some important generalizations.
Certainly if one vnvty have transformations including three now accepted sections or genera in the life of one individual, it will necessitate some changes in our sj'stematic arrangements.
I do not think we have in this case, yet it is none the less possible, and would not be the first instance among invertebrates.
ON THE CAMBAEI OF NORTHERN INDIANA.
BY WILL F. BUNDY.
Accompanying the collection of fishes made by Messrs. Cook and Levette, a report on which has been recentl}' published in the Proceedings of the Academ}-, was a small collection of crawfishes.
The}'were forwarded to me for determination by Professor Jordan.
The following are the species and localities : — Cambarus immanis, Hagen, Long Lake, Kendallville, Ind.
Not distinguishable from specimens from Central Illinois.
The young have lateral thoracic spines.
C. obesus, Hagen, Long Lake, Kendallville, Ind.
A few young females were found in the collection from this locality.
The most common species in the West.
A female caught in the mouth of a tile ditch at Mechanicsburg, Ind., on New Year's daj^, 1875, had her abdominal legs loaded with eggs nearly ready to hatch.
C. virilis, Hagen, Long Lake, Kendallville, Ind.
A few individuals apparentlv belong to tliis species, but the cephalothorax is but slightlv depressed, and nearlysmooth above.
The inner ramus of first abdominal leg of male is not transversely flattened, and the hands and fingers are less tuberculate.
C. propinquus, Girard, Elkhart Eiver, Rome City, Ind.
C. virilis, Hagen, Elkhart River, Rome City, Ind.
C. propinquus, Gir., Deep Lake, Northern Indiana.
Exact locality not given.
The largest of this species I have ever seen measured 7^ decimeters from tip of rostrum to that of telson.
Two females present unusual variations.
In one a second annulus appears between the third thoracic legs, somewhat similar in shape, but smaller in size than the normal organ.
Another has hooks developed on the third thoracic legs, precisel}^ as in males of the first form.
There is also in these craw-fishes a tendency manifested toward multiplication of the lateral thoracic spines, there being in some individuals two, and in others three of these on each side.
A considerable number of this species, from an unknown locality, differ in having wider, more gaping hands, thicker at the base, as in C. placidu8.
C. sloanii, Bundy, Bulletin No.
1, Mus.
III.
Nat.
Hist., 1876, page 24.
Rostrum wide, excavated, margins nearl}' parallel, straight, or nearly so, acumen triangular, acute, toothed at base ; cephalic carinas short, near margin in front ; antennre sliorter than bod}' ; laminae longer than rostrum, moderately wide, external margin curved, swollen, apical tooth long, acute ; epistoma wider than long, excavated narrower in front, emarginate ; maxillipedes hairy on inner faces, naked l)elow ; cephalothorax subovoid, dorsum depressed, carapace finely granulated; lateral spines acute; anterior border of cephalothorax distinctly' angulated ; areola wide, posterior spatium wider than anterior; chela?
short, conical, wide, swollen toward base, nearly smooth below, finel}' granulated above, inner margin provided with two rows of inconspicuous teeth ; outer finger wide at base, nearly straight, furrowed above on outer and inner margins, punctate above and below, inner margin with a row of small tubercles ; inner finger curved, inner and outer margins tuberculate or serrate, more punctate above than below, incurved tips of both fingers brown, horn}' ; third joint of third pair of thoracic legs hooked ; first abdominal legs of male bifid, parts of nearly equal length, flattened, outer one nearly straight, apex directed outward; inner part slightly recurved, separating from outer part, and ending with acute points turned inward ; tubercles at inner basal angle small, legs when folded under thorax reach to coxae of second thoracic legs.
In the second form male, the chelae are smaller and shorter, hooks on third legs smaller, first abdominal legs articulated between node and base, tips swollen, not brown hornj-.
The annulus of female has the anterior border scarcely separated from fourth venter, posterior border elevated, posterior angle prominent, bituberculate, the tubercles encroaching on fossa, lateral angles acute.
This species is very similar to G.ohacurus^hwt on comparing it with types of this species I find the following points of difference: The rostrum is somewhat wider and more punctate above, the areola is wider, the fingers less gaping at base, the branches of first abdominal legs are round and slender in C. ohscurus^ and straight, while in C. sloanii they are flattened, and bent outward and backward.
The annulus of female is also decidedly difterent in the two species.
In G. obscurus it is divided by a cruciform furrow into four tubercles, of which the anterior pair are largest.
Length of largest male I have seen, 3^ inches.
Tliis species inhabits streams in Southern Indiana and Kentucky.
Dr. Sloan, who has studied its habits in its native streams, sa3'S of it: "I think his habit of burrowing is peculiar.
He commences on the bank of the stream, burrows below the bed, and has an opening two or more feet out in the stream, where he sits watching for anything that maj' turn up, with a safe retreat.
He can only be caught in that position by thrusting the net deep in the mud, so as to cut off his retreat."
Cambarus spinosus, Bundy, sp.
nov.
Rostrum quadrangular, long, excavated, smooth above, toothed at apex ; margins parallel, curved ; acumen long, slender ; cei)halothorax depressed, punctate above, granulated on sides; lateral spines long, acute ; cephalic carinas parallel, black acute teeth in front; areola present; transverse suture not sinuous; antennae slender, very long, reaching beyond tip of telson ; laminae as long as rostrum, narrow, tapering toward long, sharp, outwarddirected apical teeth ; long acute tooth at base; external margin incurved ; epistoma wide, emarginate in front ; maxillipedes hairy within, naked below ; chelae large, thick at base, smooth below, punctate aboA'e, inuer margin finely serrate ; fingers slender, curved, slightly gaping, costate above, smooth below, tuberculate and hairy on contiguous margins, of equal length, banded with black on distal half; outer margin of outer finger with a l)lack stripe reaching on hand to carpus; two or three black spots on hand at base of movable finger ; carpus with a sharp curved spine on inner margin, one on superior and two on inferior front margin ; two rows of teeth on lower border of brachium, outer row with onh' two teeth ; third joints of third pair of legs of male hooked ; first pair of abdominal legs of male strongly bifid, tips of equal length, very slender, straight, separating at node ; anterior margin with a tooth or pz'ojecting angle about midway from base to extremities ; apical forming a very obtuse angle with basal half.
The second form male has hooks on third legs smaller, first abdominal legs longer, external part longer than internal, and slightly recurved, both tips much thicker, no tooth on anterior margin, articulated below node and narrower at base.
Tlie female has smaller, narrower hands, straighter fingers, not gaping at base.
The annulus is directed obliquely backward, transversely elliptical, a large tubercle on posterior angle and two smaller ones in front separated by a furrow continuous with nearly straight, welldefined fossa.
The longest male I have ever seen measured 3f inches from rostrum to tip of telson.
The length of areola is contained twice in the distance from transverse suture to base of apical teeth of rostrum, thus giving the animal a peculiarl}' short-waisted appearance.
I have seen nineteen specimens of C. spinosus, of which seven were second form males and eleven females.
Habitat.
— Etowah, Oostanaula and Coosa Rivers, in the vicinity of Rome, Georgia, where it is extremel^^ abundant, in company with C. extraneus.
From the collection of Prof. D. S. Jordan.
SYNOPSIS OF THE FISHES OF LAKE NICARAGUA.
BY THEODORE GILL, M.D., AND J. F. BRANSFORD, M.D., U. S. N. During the spring of 1876, Dr. Bransford devoted some attention to the fishes of Lake Nicaragua while engaged in official duties under instructions from the Secretary of the Navy.
The result of his labors was a collection of twent3^-one species, of which seven are new to science, and several others have been for the first time definitively added to the fauna.
The following article is an enumeration of the species collected as well as those otherwise known as inhabitants of the lake.
The responsibility of the determination of the species rests chiefl}' with Dr. Gill.
Lake Nicaragua is distant from the Atlantic Ocean, at its nearest point, some sixt^'-five miles in an air line ; while in the neighborhood of llivas it approaches within ten miles of the Pacific.
It extends in a northwest direclion from its outlet at San Carlos, about a hundred and ten miles, with a maximum width of forty.
A depth of 125 feet was obtained by Com'dr XulTs survey.
Except in the valley of the San Juan, the land between the lake and the Atlantic is higher and rougher than between it and the Pacific Ocean.
Mean high water in the lake is above high tide in the Pacific — 103.14 feet; and above mean tide iu either ocean 107.63 feet.
The lowest summit elevation on the west side is 43.78 feet above mean high water in the lake.
This is about five miles from the lake, on the Rio Lajas route.
A surface of eight thousand square miles is drained into this basin, which discharges at a minimum in the dry season 113.90 cubic feet per second, through its only outlet the San Juan River.
The river is 119 miles long, and has five series of sharp rapids.
The lake furnishes the inhabitants of its shores with water excellent for drinking.
It is stocked with fish of great variet}', from the little Chirostoma up to the shark and sawfish.
Most of the fish are excellent for table use.
They are usually taken with a cast net, frequently at night, or with a hook and line.
The sardines, as they are called, the Chirostomse and Pceciliee, are taken in weirs made of the branches of trees ; and sometimes girls sitting on the rocky shore scoop them in wuth twigs as the swell throws them into the pools and passages nmong tho rocks.
Squier thus describes the fisheries in tiie neighboring lake of Managua:' "At one point bushes were planted in the lake, like fish-weirs, between which women were stationed with scoop-nets, wherewith they laded out myriads of little silvery fishes, from the size of a large needle to that of a shrimp, which they threw into kettle-shaped holes, scooped in the sand, where, in the evening light, leaping up in their dying throes, they looked like a simmering mass of molten silver.
These little fish are called sardinas by the natives, and are cooked in omelets, constituting a ver}' excellent dish."
" The first travellers in Nicaragua mention this novel fishery as then practised bj' the aborigines, and it has remained unchanged to the present hour."
Crabs are abundant along the banks of the lake; and turtles come ashore in great niuiibers, at certain seasons, to deposit their eggs.
Six years after the discovery of Nicaragua by Gil Gonzolez de Aviola, the old Spanish Chronicler Oviedo resided for some time in this region, and a few 3'ears later wrote a most valuable account of the countr}'', its inhabitants, and productions.
The following is a somewhat free translation of extracts relating to fish from his work : — " There are in this lake (or these lakes, if you think there are several) many and good fish.
But I believe it to be one single lake, and there is a good reason for it, which is that it contains very large sea fish, and from the sea they come into it, such as sharks and many alligators and cockatrices.
And Avhat confirms and aflflrms my belief that it is only one lake and in communication with the sea, is that in the year 1529 I found on the coast of this lake, lying on the beach, in the Province of Nicaragua, a dead fish that the waters must have thrown out, and which no man ever saw or caught but in the sea; it is called the sword fish, the one that carries a high snout at the extremity of the upper jaw ; that ferocious sword full of sharp-edged tcetli (on both edges) closely spaced.
And this one 1 found dead, out of the lake, must have come into it by said outlet, and, although over 12 feet long, it was small, because the sword was small, not more than one palm and three fingers long, and not wider at the root, the widest part, ' Squior's Nicaragua, v. I, p. 412. than two fingers.
There is a great variety of fish, and the water is good and healthy, not A'ery light nor heavy."
( Yol.
iv.
page 63.)
" The common food of tiie Indians, and one they are verj' fond of, is the liver and sea fish ; they are very skilful in fishing and in the artifices they use for the purpose.
And as some use fishing rods in Spain, the Indians in the same way fish with long and flexible poles well adapted for the purpose, and with line and bows, and more commonly with well-made cotton nets ; and also with inclosures and partitions built in the shape of palisades, and from their canoes or boats.
And they also employ a certain herb called baygua, which, thrown in the water, intoxicates the fish and after a short time the}' come to the surface lyinoon their backs asleep or stunned; and the people take them with their hands in laige quantities.
This baygua is similar to bexuco.'"
" But besides the fish thus taken from the rivers, they catch large quantities of them in the manner I stated hereinbefore.
And it is my belief that these fishes from this country are healthier than those from Spain, because they contain less phlegm, but thej' are inferior in taste, though here are some very good ; such as small a^id large lisas.jureles^ bemujuelas, mojarras^ guabi)ias,palomelas bih abacas, sdoalos,robalos,jja7'quetas,cagones,sardinetus,co?
'7iudas^ pulpos, toUos, corbinitas, agujas, linguados, agedias, salvionades (I do not mean salmons), hortias (oysters), almejas (clams), and shell-fish of mau}^ kinds; langostas (lobsters), ca»crfy'os (crabs), jaybos, camurones (shrimp), rojos, many and in some places very large; anguilas (eels), morenas (muroenas) numerous and ver}' large; (ibu?-ones (sharks), lobos marinos (sea lion), etc."
(Yol.
i. p.
424.)
" They fish with poles, in imitation of the fishing rod used in Spain, and with lines.
I say they learned this v.-ay of fishing from the Christians, because the Indians had no fish-hooks.
Leaving out these two ways of fishing from those I have mentioned, they used to fish constantlj' in other manners, and also with judria-< and with a kind of trap, in the rivers."
(Yol.
i. p.
425.)
The worthy clironicler must not be judged too harshly for his assumptions respecting the communicability between the sea and lake, because of the presence of sawfish and other marine types.
In our days naturalists have based hypotheses and classifications upon even less data and in spite of known facts.
The earliest of the historians of Nicaragua was also the most full and satisfactor}' in his account of its fishes.
Later travellers have not added materiall}' to the ichthyography of the country, and the allusions to the fishes made by Belt, Stout-, Boyle, etc., it is unnecessary to recapitulate; they have chiefly adverted to the presence of sharks in the lake; the existence of the sawfish has even b^^ Squier been regarded as apocryphal.
Almost all of our knowledge of the fish fauna of the lake has in fact been gained within the last twelve or thirteen years.
"With the exception of vague allusions to the fishes referred to, nothing had been published respecting them till the year 1864.
In 1864, in the fifth volume of the " Catalogue of the Fishes in the British Museum" (page 125), Dr. A. Giinther described a species of Siluria under the name Pimelodus nicaraguensis ( = Bhamdia nicaraguensis) presented by Capt.
J. M. Dow.
In 1864, also, in a " Report of a Collection of Fishes made by Messrs. Dow, Godman, and Salvin, in Guatemala" (Proc.
Zool.
Soc, London, for 1864, pp.
144-154), Dr. Giinther introduced four new species, viz.
: Eleotris loiigicejos { = Philypnus longiceps)^ Heros citruiellus, Heros nicaraguensis, and Heros Dovii, all of wliich had been obtained by Capt.
Dow from the lake.
In 1866, in the sixth volume of the " Catalogue of the Fishes in the British Museum," Dr. Giinther made known two species of Cyprinodonts, viz.
: Gamhusia nicaraguensis and Poecilia Dovii, both of which, like all the previously described species, were due to Capt.
Dow.
Finally, in 1868, in " An Account of the Fishes of the States of Central America, based on collections made by Capt.
J. M. Dow, J. Godman, Esq., and 0.
Salvin, Esq."
(Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v. 6, pp.
377-494, pi.
63-87), Dr. Giinther introduced still another new species of Heros — Heros longimanus.
In the same memoir (p. 405) Dr. Giinther also gave a full list of the fishes so far received from the lake, which then numbered nine species, and contrasted them with those from other hydrographic basins, viz.
: — " E. Lake of Nicaragua.
— Also the fishes of this lake are, with two exceptions, peculiar ; like Lake Managua, it appears to have been part of a marine channel.
Eleotris longiceps.
Heros longimanus.
cilrinellus.
dovii.
nicaraguensis.
Heros labiatus (Lake of Managua) Pimelodus nicaraguensis.
Gambusia nicaraguensis.
Poecilia dovii (in common witli Lake Amatitlan)."
The element of especial interest in connection witli the iclitliyic fauna of the fake, is the association of forms that we are in the habit of regarding as characteristically marine with those that are at least as exclusiA-ely fresh-water t^'pes.
Thus, with the species of Cichlids and Characinids, of which no representatives have been found in marine waters, we have a species of Megalops^ a shark, and a sawfish.
The association of the Plagiostomes in fresh water is not, however, unique.
As has long been known, a similar instance of combination occurs in the Philippine Islands. "
Xear Manila," says Mr. W. W. Wood,^ "is the Laguna de Baij, a large sheet of water some ninety miles in circumference, divided by an island and two peninsulas, from which it is often spoken of as the lakes.
This lagoon receives the waters of the small rivers of the provinces of the Laguna and Morong, and its only outlet is the river Pasig, which flows with the bay between the military city and suburbs of Manila."
" The water of the lake is quite fresh, and, after settling, perfectly potable."
In this lake are found a sawfish, which, according to A.
B. Me^-er,' is specifically identical with the Pristis Perotettii of the sea, and a shark which has not been specifically identified, but which is said to be "a small species of dog-fish, and quite harmless."
It is also known to naturalists that sharks frequentl}' ascend to a considerable distance up rivers, and that in large rivers, especially several in South America, species of rays, not known to occur elsewhere, are found.
The Merjalops has not hitherto been known to occur in bodies of fresh water so isolated from the sea as is Lake Nicaragua.
These instances, supplemented as they are by many others, are sufficient to convey a caution against too extensive generalization of the phj'siographical conditions hinted at by fossil remains of aquatic types.
The why and wherefore of such combinations of species are not entirely apparent.
They ma}^ have resulted (1) from the intrusion of the salt-water types into the fresh waters, or (2) from the detention and survival of the salt-water fishes in inlets of the sea that have become isolated and gradually become freshwater lakes.
On the whole, it appears more probable that the latter is the case.
By the uplift of the land, an inlet of the Pacific Ocean might have been shut off from communication from ' Nature, xiii.
p. 107, 1875.
2 Nature, xiii.
p. 1G7, 1875. the ocean, and the character of the water would be soon changed by the copious showers of that tropical country'.
The shark, sawfish, megalops, and other species mostly found in the sea, had, however, time to accommodate themselves to the altered conditions, and in this connection it must be remembered too, that most of the types in question are known to voluntaril}'^ ascend high up streams and even into fresh water.
The numerous rapids of the river discharging from the lake discourage, however, the idea that the species enumerated have voluntarily ascended that river and entered the lake.
The concurrence of the fresh-water fishes with the others and their entrance into the lake from the surrounding streams would be merely a question of time.
With these remarks we close, and preface the descriptive portion with a list of the species enumerated.
GOUIID^.
Philypnus longiceps, ClCIILID^E.
Heros rostratus.
longiraanus.
labiatus.
citrinellus.
basilar is.
Dovii.
nicaraguensis.
balteatus.
centrarchus.
Nectroplus uicaraguensis.
Atherinid^.
Cbirostoma guatamalensis.
CYPRINODONTIDyE.
Gambusia uicaraguensis.
Pfficilia Dovii.
Cl.UPEID/E.
Opisthonema libertatis.
EhOTlVJK.
Megalops .
CnAiiAciNin^.
Chalcinopsis dentex, Bramocharax Brausfordii.
SiLURlD.K.
Rhamdia nicaraguensis.
Pristid.e.
Pristis autiquorum ?
GALEORIIINIDiE.
Ealamia nicaragueusis.
GOBIIDiE.
FMlypnus longiceps.
Eleotris longiceps, Gtlir., Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London for 1864, p. 151.
Gthr., Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
Loudon, vol.
vi.
p. 440, 1868.
Two specimens were obtained, agreeing well with Giintlier's description of the species in question.
CICHLID-ffi.
Heros rostratus.
The form is that of the Helleri type.
The back declines rather rapidly' to the tail, and in front of the dorsal is slightly gibbous.
The height is contained two and one-third times in the extracaudal length.
The caudal peduncle is one-third higher at its base than long.
Its greatest height bears to its length the ratio of 10 to ?.
The head is acutely pointed, and the snout above, rectilinear.
The length of the snout exceeds half that of the head.
The inter-orbital area is nearly flat.
The preoperculum and cheeks are very oblique.
The buccal scales are in six rows.
The jaws are normally developed.
The superior maxillary terminates at a vertical a little nearer the ej'e than the snout, and the articulation of the lower jaw is also notably in advance of the eye.
The lips are moderately developed, and the lower ones separated by a broad frainum at the middle.
The dorsal fin is well developed ; the anterior spines are rapidlygraduated, the rest subequal ; the soft rays, when bent back, extend a little beyond the basal third of tlie caudal.
The anal fin commences under about the twelfth dorsal spine ; its first four spines rapidly increase, and its last two moderately; the soft part, when bent back, extends a little beyond the basal foui'tii of the caudal.
The caudal enters four and one-third times in the extreme length, and is subtruucate, but slightly emarginated in the middle.
The pectoral fins are well developed, and extentl about as far backwards as the first anal rays.
The ventral fins have filamentary ra3-s which extend backward to the last anal spine.
Tlie color is a bronzed olive indistinctlj'' crossed, at least in the young, by two bands, one under the dorsal, and the other below its last rays ; later, these fade out more or less, leaving, of the first, only a rather indistinct dorsal saddle under the median spines, and of the second, a distinct black spot below the latei'al line.
A black spot also exists at the base of the caudal fin, mostly above the lateral line.
The breast and lower surface of the head bronzed or blackish towards maturity.
The dorsal at its spinous part is dusky and immaculate, but in its soft portion diversified by dusky areas in three or five rows, separated b}' narrow light interspaces.
The anal is more nearly uniform, but still has a few light spots.
The caudal is reticulated by bright interspaces on a dusky ground.
The pectorals are spotless.
The ventrals dusky.
Tliis species is quite characteristic in the extension of the rostrum, and is thus readily distinguished from at least any of the Xicai'aguan species, if not from any 3et made known.
It is apparently most nearly related to the Heros affinis (Giinther), of Lake Peter.
Eleven specimens of various sizes were obtained by Dr. Bransford.
Heros longimanus.
Heros longimanus, Gthr., Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v. VI.
p. 453, pi 73, fig.
2, 1868.
But one half-grown specimen was obtained by Dr. Bransford.
Heros labiatus.
Heros lahiatus.
Gthr., Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, for 18G4, p. 27, pi.
4, fig.
1, 1864.
Heros lahiatus, Gthr., Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v. VL p. 456, 1868.
Heros citrinellus.
Heros citrinellus, Gthr., Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, for 1864, p. lo3, 1864.
Heros citrinellus, Gthr., Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v. VL p. 4o9, pi.
71, fig.
1, 1868.
Four specimens were obtained, wliicli apparently belong to this species, although none exactly agree with the description or figure published by Dr. Giinther.
Heros basilaris.
The form is that of the Marrjaritifer and Citrinellus tj'pe.
The back declines moderately to the tail, and is regularly decurved in front of the dorsal fin ; tiie height is contained two and one-third times in the extra-caudal length ; the caudal peduncle is not much higher at its base than long, and it decreases ver^'^ gradually to the fin ; the head is normal, and the snout above convex and blunt in front, the length of the snout is little more than a third the length of the head ; the interorbital area is slightly raised ; the preoperculum is nearly vertical; the buccal scales are in four rows ; the jaws are norraall}^ developed ; the supra-maxillary terminates at a vertical, very little in advance of the orbit ; the lips are moderately developed, and are free all around ; the teeth of the outer row are of rather large size; the dorsal fin is moderately developed ; the anterior spines are normally graduated, the rest subeqnal ; the soft rays when bent back extend nearly to the terminal third of the caudal ; the anal fin commences under the thirteenth dorsal spine, its first three spines are rapidly, and the succeeding moderately, graduated ; the largest soft rays, when bent back, reach the second third of the caudal ; the caudal enters four and a third or four and a half times in the extreme length, and its margin is convex-truncate ; the pectoral fin extends to the vertical of the third and the ventral fin to that of the fourth or fifth anal spine.
0. xvi.
12.
A. vii.
8.
The color is bronzed-olive, with (in the young, at least) seven bands; in the fourth band is developed a distinct blackish spot just under the lateral line, and on the base of the caudal fin, above the lateral line, is another, but smaller, blackish spot; the dorsal and anal fins are dusk}', but the soft parts much darker at the base than on the rest of their fins and surface; the caudal fin is also much darker at its basal third than behind ; the pectoral and ventral fins are dusky and uniform, save that the filamentary rays of the ventrals are darker.
The s^iecies is quite nearly related to a number of species, and, among the Nicaraguan ones, next to the Heros longimanus^ but its combination of characters sufficiently differentiates it as a distinct species from any previously well characterized.
It is one of the most abundant species of Lake Nicaragua.
Heros dovii.
Ileros dovii, Gthr., Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, for 1864, p. 154, 1864.
Heros dovii, Gthr., Traus.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v.
VI., p. 461, pi.
73, fig.
4, 1868.
No specimens were obtained by Dr. Bransford.
Heros nicaraguensis.
Jleros nicaraguensis, Gtlir., Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, for 1864, p. 153, 1861.
Heros nicaraguensis, Gthr., Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v.
VI., p. 465, pi.
77, fig.
1, 1868.
Xo specimens are in Dr. Bransford's collection.
Heros balteatus.
The form is that of the Godmanni type; the back declines rather slowly, and in a gentle curve to the tail, and in front of the dorsal is boldly decurved to the forehead ; the heioht is contained rather more than two and a Iialf times in the extra-caudal length; tlie 'caudal peduncle is little higher than long, and gradually diminishes to the tail ; the head is abbreviated and the snout convex above and almost sub-truncated in front ; the length of the snout enters two and a half times in that of the head; the inter-orbital area is flat ; the preoperculum mostly vertical, but convexl}' protuberant at the angle; the buccal scales are in five rows; the jaws are normally developed ; the supra-maxillar}' terminates at a vertical in front of the orbit ; the lower lip is indicated by an obsolete fold wanting towards the symphysis ; the teeth in the outer row are moderately enlarged ; the dorsal fin is slightly developed ; the anterior spines are rather slowly graduated, and tlie rest subequal ; the longest soft rays, when bent back, extend to the terminal half of the caudal ; the anal fin commences under about the fourteenth dorsal spine; the spines at first rapidly and then gradually increase in length backwards; the longest soft rays, -when bent back, reach the second third of the caudal fin ; the caudal fin enters four and a third times in the extreme length, and is slightly emarginated; the pectoral fins reach Ixickn-ards to the vei-tical of the third anal spine, and the filamentary rays of the ventral fins extend to the fourth or fifth anal spine.
D. xviii.
10.
A. vii.
7.
Tlie color (in spirits) is yellowish-orange ; a rather broad black band extends from the post-ocular region across the operculum and shoulder, along the flanks to the spot at the base of the caudal fin.
The l)ack in front of the dorsal has also a blackish spot, and under the base of the dorsal fin are more or less defined dark areas or spots; the dorsal fin is dusky and immaculate, as are also the anal and caudal ; the pectoral fins are yellowish at the base and dusky beyond, and the ventral have the outer rays dusky (but with the edge of the externnl lighter) and the inner ^-ellowish ; the branchiostegal membrane below is orange or yellowish, and the breast slate-colored.
This is also an abundant and characteristic species.
Of the previously known Nicaraguan species it seems to most resemble the Heros nicaraguensis, but is so decided!}'
distinct as to need no special comparison.
Heros centrarchus.
The form is of the Midtispinosiis type ; the parts above and below the longitudinal axis are nearl}^ equally balanced ; tlie back declines moderately in a curve towards the tail and in front of the dorsal is slightly, but regularly decurv'ed towards the foi'chead ; the height is contained twice in the extra-caudal length ; the caudal peduncle is ver}' short, its height at the root being twice as great as it is long, and it comparatively rapidly narrows to tlie caudal ; the head has the forehead slightly gibbous, and the snout is rectilinear and pointed in front; the length of the snout is little more than a fourth of that of the head ; the interorbital area is slightly raided ; the preoperculum is nearly vertical and at the angle boldly rounded ; the buccal scales are in five rows ; the jaws are normally developed ; the supraraaxillary terminates at a vertical about a pupil's length in advance of the eye; the lips are moderately developed and the lower is interrupted in front ; the teeth of the outer row are rather strong; the dorsal fin is moderately developed; the dorsal spines increase in a regular, bold curve from the first to the sixth, 'and the following are nearly equal ; tiie longest raj'S bent backwards extend for the lengtli of the basal half of the caudal; the anal fin is very long and commences under the ninth dorsal spine; the spinous portion is not much less than three times longer than the soft ; the first three spines are rapidly graduated and the following ones nearl}' equal ; the longest soft rays reach backward to the terminal half of the caudal; the caudal fin forms a quarter of the extreme length, its angles are round and the posterior margin slightly emarginated ; the pectoral fin extends backwards nearl}' to tlie vertical of the fifth or sixth anal spine ; the ventral fins also reach to nearlj' the same point.
1).
xvi.
-I8 ; A. X.
49.
The color is bronze-olive, with seven indistinct cross-bands ; at the base of the tail is a faint spot chiefly above the lateral line ; the fins are dusky and emaculate.
13 The species is related to the Heros multispinosus, but is distinguislied sufliciently b\' the characters specified in the description.
The specimen preserved at least is entirely destitute of the distinct longitudinal band which characterizes the H. mullispinosus, and is also distinguished b}a slight gibbosity above the orbit which contrasts with the straight profile of the older species.
But one specimen was procured.
Both in ph^-siognomy and in the number of the anal spines it resembles the genus Centrarchus of Xorth America, and, hence, the name is very appropriate, inasmuch as it serves to recall this resemblance as well as to indicate the great number of spines.
The group of which it is a representative may receive the subgeneric name of Archocentrus.
Neetroplus nicaragaensis.
The form is almost entirel}^ that o^ Neetroplus nematopus ; the back declines equalljslowly backwards, but in front of the dorsal falls in a more regular convex line to the forehead ; the height equals two-fifths of the extra-caudal length ; the caudal peduncle is slender, and its length equals the height; the head is short, and the snout convex forwards and subtruncated in front ; the length (or depth) of the snout equals nearly half that of the head; the interorbital area is convex; the preoperculum moderately oblique; the supra-maxillai'ies terminate at a vertical about a pupil's length in advance of the orbits ; the lips are moderatelj' developed, the lower interrupted \>y a broad isthmus in front ; the dorsal spines increase in a bold curve from the first to the fifth and the rest are subequal ; the soft rays, when bent back, reach nearly to the terminal half of the caudal ; the anal fin commences about under the fourteenth dorsal spine ; the first three spines rapidly increase, the succeeding slower ; the longest rays reach to the second third of the caudal fin ; the caudal fin forms about a fourth of the extreme length and its posterior margin is truncated ; the pectoral fin extends to about a vertical with the anus ; the ventral fin to about the third or fourth anal spine, the filament of the external ray being moderately produced.
I), xviii.
-f11 ; A. vii.
-f V. The color is olive-brown, and almost uniform.
The fins are also uniform save that, perhaps, the soft portion of the dorsal and anal are darker at the base.
The si)ecies is very closely related to the type and hitherto only known species of the genus Neetroplus {X. nematopus), but is distinguished by the simple convex forehead, and the more truncated snout, the truncated caudal, the less elongated ventral filaments, and the uniform color of the operculum.
Three specimens were obtained.
ATHERINIDiE.
CMrostoma guatemalensis.
Atherinichthys guatemalensis, Gtlir.,Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Loudon, for 1864, p. 151, 1864.
Gthr., Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v.
VI., p. 443, 1868.
Nine specimens were obtained which doubtless belong to this species, although they do not entirely agi-ee with the description, which, however, is too brief.
CYPRINODONTIDiE.
Gambnsia nicaraguensis.
Gambusia nicaraguensis, Gthr., Cat.
Fishes B. M., v.
VI., p. 336, 1866.
Gthr., Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
Loudon, v.
VI., p. 483, pi.
82, fig.
3 (fern.
), 1868.
Known onlj' through the description and figure published by Dr. Giinther.
Poecilia Dovii.
Verified Synonymy.
Pcecilia Dovii, Gthr., Cat.
Fishes B. M., v.
VI., p. 344, 1866.
Possible Synonymy.
Gambusia plumbea, Troschel, Reise Mex.
von Miiller, v.
III., p. 106.
Five specimens were obtained.
CLUPEIDiE.
Opisthomena libertatis.
Meletta libertatis, Gthr., Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, for 1866, p. 603, 1867.
Clupea libertatis, Gthr., Cat.
Fishes B. M., v. VII.
p. 433, 1868.
Gthr., Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v.
VI., p. 487, 1868.
Two small specimens were obtained.
ELOPID.aJ.
Megalops .
The Megalops is a most beautiful fish, with olive-green back, and sides frosted with silver.
The specimen, of which only two scales were preserved, sprang upon the deck of the river steamer while going down the Toro Rapids — the first set after leaving the lake.
While here in 18'73,one that weighed 62 lbs.
sprang into our boat.
In March, 1873, while encamped at the head of the Toro Rapids, every evening, just before sunset, one of these magnificent fish came close under the grassy bank to play in the deep swift current.
It would make its appearance, and, turning on its side, slowly sink and rise again.
One evening I stood in wait with a harpoon, the blade of which, about eight inches long, was armed with four or five barbs, about an inch in length.
On the fish's approach the harjDoon was hurled and buried six inches in the flesh behind its shoulder.
The terrified animal rushed down stream in a style that made our hands burn as the long line spun through.
Three men were required to hold it, but in five minutes it was apparently' exhausted and allowed itself to be hauled up near the bank.
Two Indians were sent out in a canoe to land it, but when touched, it gave a convulsive spring, tearing awa}' and leaving chunks of flesh on each barb.
The flesh of this fish is rather coarse, but much eaten b}' the natives.
(Bransford.)
CHARAClNIDiE.
Chalcinopis dentez, Brycoii dentex, Gthr., Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, for 18G0, p. 240.
Chalctnopsis dentex, Gthr., Cat.
Fishes B. M., v. V. p. 337, 1864.
Gthr.
Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London, v. VI.
p. 478, pi.
82, f. 2, 1864.
The height of the body is contained three and one-third times in the total length without the caudal; the length of the head is a little less than four times ; the maxillary extends to a vertical with the front of the pupil of the eye ; the snout is about as long as the eye ; the interorbital space is convex, its width is nearly half as great again as the length of the snout ; the dorsal fin has its origin nearer the base of the caudal than the extremity of the snout, and its posterior is above the anal ; the free portion of the tail is considerably longer than high; the caudal fin is deeply forked ; the pectoral fin extends nearly as far backwards as the base of the ventrals.
The color is olive-brownish on the back, and silver}' on the flanks and abdomen ; the scapular arch is bordered with blackish ; the dorsal fin is dusky ; the anal fin forwards is also dusky towards the free margins.
Two specimens were collected, which, as will be seen from the above description, agree essentially with Chalcinopais dentex^ of Giintlier; but one of them is distinguished by a remarkable deviation from the type in the development of the preopercular and buccal bones of one of the sides.
On the right side, the preopercular bone extends backwards over the interoperculum, and has an oblique posterior margin; the enlarged inferior, or buccal, suborbital bone is more than twice as long as high, and its posterior margin is oblique and parallel with that of the preoperculum ; the post-orbitals are well developed and nearl}' contiguous.
On the left side, tlie homologous bones present essentially the characteristics attributed to them in the figure published by Giinther.
Genus BRAMOCHARAX.
Body elongated, compressed — fusiform, and -witli tlie belly, in front of the ventrals, rounded.
Scales of moderate size, with entire margins, but very distinct radiating striae on their exposed surfaces; lateral line moderately decurved and comi)lete ; head moderate, with a pointed slender snout and slightly incurved pi'ofile ; sub-orbital bones well developed, and with the buccal and combined post-ocular ones subequal and enlarged ; nostrils close together and separated only by membranous partition ; mouth with the cleft moderately oblique and deep, extended at least below the anterior borders of the eye ; teetli uni-serial on the jaws; those in intermaxillar}-, as well as dentary, being compressed and conical ; those of the former moderate, and those of the latter enlarged, especiall_y on each side of the s^ymphysis ; teeth of supra-raaxillarj' extending along almost its entire edge, and small, compressed, and muticuspid or denticulate ; branchial apertures ample, the branchioslegal membrane being deeply cleft and free from the isthmus ; dorsal fin short and sub-median, being above the space between the ventrals and anal ; anal fin moderatel}'' long, and restricted to the posterior half of the fish's length; pectorals moderate ; ventrals abdominal, and inserted at nearl}^ a head's length behind the head.
The genus thus defined, is, in brief, characterized by the physiognoni}'^ of an Asfyanax or bream, combined with characteristics of the genus Cynopotamus, and techuicalh', at least, it approaches nearest to the last-named group.
Its distinctive features are found in the association of characters enumerated, especially the form, size of scale, dentition, moderatel}' elongated anal, and position of the ventrals.
Bramocharax Bransfordii, Gill.
D. 11, A.
2 + 26, P. 16, Y.
1 + 8.
The height is contained about two and three-quarters times in the length, exclusive of the caudal.
The head enters three and two-thirds times in the same length.
The eye is large, its diameter equalling a quarter of the head's length.
The snout is somewhat longer than the e3'e, is attenuated, and projects slightly beyond the lower jaw.
The superior maxillary bones are much decurved, and extend somewhat behind the centre of the eye.
SILURIDiE.
Bhamdia nicaragnensis.
Pimelodus nicaraguensis, Gthr., Cat.
Fishes B.
Museum, v. V., p. 125, 1864.
No specimens were secured b}' Dr. Bransford.
PRISTID.aj.
Fristis antiquorum.
A saw of the species of Prislis inhabiting Lake Nicaragua has been sent to the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Flint, of Granada.
It essentially agrees with those of the Pristis antiquorum in the collection of the Institution, although quite well marked individuall3% The lake-dweller may still prove to be a form differentiated specifically from its marine congener ; there is, however, no sufficient reason for its determination from the saw.
GALIOSHINID.S.
Eulamia nicaraguensis.
The snout is short and obtusely rounded ; the distance between the mouth and the extremity of the snout is considerabl}' less than (about four-fifths of) the interval between the inner angles of the nostrils; no labial fold is superadded to the groove at the angle of the mouth; the teeth are rather larger and less numer25 12-1-1-1-12 ous than usual, e.g.. — = ~—L.
— T — "i • the upper of these are '25 12-1-1 -f12 ^ nearly regularly triangular, scarcely notched on the posterior margin, and with both margins distinctly serrated; those in the lower have a broad two-rooted bnse, but narrow cusps which are ver}' finely serrated on tiie margins; the first dorsal commences just behind the vertical from the inner axil of the pectoral fin, and its vertical height about equals the snout at the line of the nostrils, and is considerably higher than long at its base ; the second dorsal is somewhat larger than the anal, its base is about two-fifths as long as that of the first dorsal, while its height is about a third of that of the first ; the pectoral fins are moderately developed, the greatest extent being considerabl}'^ less than twice the height of the dorsal.
The shark of Lake Nicaragua cannot be identified with an}of the previously-described forms, altiiough closeh' related to Eulamia Milhe.rti and the Ivindred species.
The specimen described, when freshly caught, measured 6 feet 4 inches in length.
The skin and jaws were preserved.
Althougli, as indicated in tlie introductor}^ remarks, it has long been known that a shark was an inhabitant of the lake, the relations of tlie species have been previously unknown, and the spoils obtained by Dr. Bransford are the first tiiat have been subjected to scientific examination.
, Larger specimens than that obtained might have been procured, but Dr. Bransford took the first caught.
There are numerous well-authenticated cases of people having been killed b}^ these sharks, and the natives are ver}careful to keep out of their way.
Some six months before Dr. Bransford's arrival a man was bitten by one near the place where this specimen was taken.
A great portion of one thigh and buttock was cut awa^-, and he died from the effects.
Repeated tales are told of similar incidents.
Squier says: "Sharks abound in the lake.
They are called tigrones from their rapacity.
Listances are known of their having attacked and killed batliers within a stone's throw of the beach at Granada."
' They are found tliroughout the length of the river San Juan, of sizes varj'ing from a foot to over six feet in length.
Sivers thinks that they come up tlie river from the sea. '
Squier's Nicaragua, vol.
i. p. 196.
ON LAVENDTILITE FROM CHILI, S. A.
BY E. GOLDSMITH.
In some of the huge Llocks of cobalt ore from Chili, which were on exhibition in Fairmount Park last year, blue irregular veins of a mineral were observed ; this blue mineral was supposed to be the Laveudulan of Breithaupt.
The Laveudulan was first found at Annaberg, Saxony, but only in very small quantities, insufficient for the making of a quantitative anal3-sis.
Prof. Plattner as well as Mr. Lindacker — the latter found the second locality somewhere in the Austrian Empire — agree that it is composed of the oxides of arsenic, copper, cobalt, nickel, and water.
I found in the Lavendulite from Chili the same elements, besides some impurities, as lime, oxide of iron, and insoluble matter which "were impossible to separate mechanically.
It occurs in a gray rough rock which seems to be Trachyte, and it is associated with Erythrite, the latter sometimes finel}' crystallized.
Although the lavender blue mineral seems to be, in some specimens, the most conspicuous, it is, nevertheless, on close examiuatiou found to be intimately mingled with the gray granules of Tracliyte in which it is found.
This circumstance makes it very tedious and difficult to separate the pure substance for anal3'sis.
The best or purest which I could obtain was but T7.5S per cent.
I noticed with the lens that the substance is an aggregation of ver}' minute crystals, the length being in some of the thin veins equal to the thickness of the vein.
Its hardness I could not determine, because the fragments separated from tlie rock were too small for observation.
The specific gravity I did not take on account of the impurities present.
Prof. Breithaupt found for the Laveudulan from Annaberg: H=2.5 — 3. and S. G. = 3.014.
Color lavender-blue; the powder produced is paler.
The lustre is slightly' resinous, almost dull; its fracture is indeterminable in the small fragments I possessed.
If a fragment is held in the flame of the Bunsen burner, it fuses readily, coloring the flame green and clianging the blue color of the mineral to black.
Heated in the closed tube it affords water.
On charcoal with carbonate of soda it gives copper and a strong alliaceons odor indicating arsenic.
With l)orax in 0.
F. a blue glass is obtained.
In Avater it seems to be insoluble.
Hydrochloric acid dissolves it easilyif heated, and affords a green solution.
The following is the quantitative result of an examination of all the elements: — Is = 36.38 per cent.
Cn = 31.11 " Co = 1.95 " Ki = 1.05 " fi = 7.09 " ¥ = 6.38 Ca = 3.23 Insol.
= 11,61 " 98.80 " On subtracting the impurities from the sum found, there remained 77.58 per cent.
; this is considered the quantit}' of pure substance contained in the mixture, which, as remarked before, could not be had any lietter.
If we resolve the remainder to a hundred, the numbers will then stand thus: — Xs ^ 46.89 per cent, contains 16.30 of oxygen.
1 = 9.08 Cii = 40.10 (( (I 8.27 a 1 Co = 2.51 u u 0.53 11 \ Ni = 1.35 (( (( 0.28 (< J H = 9.13 (( n 8.11 (( oxj'gen ratios of Is : R ; : 11 = 5.4 : 3.
02 : 2.7, or, adopting for it 5 : 3 : 3, it will afford the formula : — 'As (Cu,Co,Ni)'-f113.
This formula would require these values: — 'As = 44.04 per cent.
Assuming only Cu =: 45.61 per cent, li = 10.30 The respective equivalents of the oxides of cobalt and nickel being lower than the equivalents of the oxide of copper, in the last theoretical quantities, the Cu is necessarily greater.
The specimens for analysis were furnished by the curators of the Academ}-.
May 1.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fort3'-one members present.
A paper entitled " Notes on the Xatural Historj^ of Fort Macon, N. C, and Yicinit^', No.
3," by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, was presented for publication.
May 8.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-seven members present.
A paper entitled "On the Brain of Chimsera Monstrosa," b^-Burt G. Wilder, was presented for publication.
On the Placenta of a Monkey.— Y)v. H. C. Chapman remarked that as it is comparatively rare for monkeys to breed in continement, and as the opportunity' does not often present itself of examining the placenta in these animals, a few remarks on the character of that structure in the Macacus nemedrinns might not be considered superfluous.
The young monke}', which was born dead in the Zoological Garden, measured 13 inches from snout to tip of tail.
As in the case of almost all the old world monkeys or Catarrhines, there were two placentas, which measured in their largest diameters 3 and 3^ inches respectively, and were discoid in shape.
The umbilical cord was 7| inches in length, and contained one umbilical vein, and two umbilical arteries.
Curiously enough in the South American monkeys, while there are two uml)ilical veins, as well as two arteries in tlie cord, the placenta is single.
On the Earthy Oxidesof Samarskite.—VvoiJ .Ij\\\im£.^c-e. Smith made some remarks on the anomalous properties of the earthy oxides of samarskite belonging to that class of the earths which are precipitated by a cold concentrated solution of sulphate potash, or sulphate of soda.
He gave his reasons for believing that these oxides contain but little if any cerium oxide, and that there is a strong probability of tlie bulk of it being a new earth.
He expressed these views with much caution, because more thorough investigation on larger quantities might possibly prove them to be inaccurate.
On MarhJeized Iron.
— Mr. Wm.
II.
Dougherty reported the results of his examination of a new article of enamelled iron-ware called "Marbleized Iron," which had recentl}' been extensively^ sold in this city for cooking and other domestic purposes.
Some of this ware having been introduced into his own household, and hearing reports of the enamel having much lead and arsenic in its composition, he had made the following experiments: — A pint of good ordinary so-called " White Wine" A-inegar was poured into a new dish of this ware, and slowly' evaporated nearly to drj-ness — distilled water was then added, and treated with hA'dro-sulpliuric acid — the resulting precipitate of sulphide of lead was then dissolved in nitric acid, and reprecii)itated with sulphuric acid in presence of alcohol as sulphate of lead, and weighed 183 milligrammes, or oA'er 2| grains, which result was further contirmed by reducing it to metallic lead with the blowpipe.
This result would indicate that the vinegar had dissolved out of the enamel enough lead to make about three grains of acetate of lead.
Into another dish of the same ware was put an ounce of citric acid, dissolved in a pint of distilled water, and boiled for some time, and then treated precisel}' as the vinegar in tlie first experiment, resulting in a precipitate of sulphate of lead, weighing somewhat less tiian that ol)tained by the vinegar, but showing that the citric acid had dissolved out a corresponding amount of lead from the enamel, as in tlie first experiment.
These two acids, acetic and citric, were used preferably as those most likel}' to come in contact with this ware in domestic uses — the first in vinegar, and the other (citric acid) occurring not only in the orange family, but being also present in the free state in gooseberries, currants, cherries, and in the potato and onion.
A can of tomatoes in an acid condition was digested in another dish of this ware and filtered — the filtrate treated as in the former experiments showed slight but positive evidences of the presence of lead.
Arsenic is said to be present in this enamel, but none had been found after repeated trials, lioth by wet and dry tests.
The stronger acids and caustic alkalies decompose this enamel.
A portion of which, detached with considerable trouble, and fused witli carbonate of soda in the usual wa}', yielded about as follows : — Oxide of lead 12 per cent.
Silica 47 « u Alumina"] Iron I Lime j' .
, 41 " " Potash Soda J 100 " " May 15.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Tvvent^'-seven members present.
Remarks on Gregarines.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that his recent study of the Rhizopods had led him once more to make an examination of some of tlie Gregarines, regarded as pertaining to a nearly related class.
Tiie Gregarines are especiall}^ parasites of the Articulata, most of tlie known forms having been found in insects, crustaceans, myriapods, and annelides.
Most of those observed by himself were found in vegetable and dirt feeders.
The}frequently occupy the alimentar}canal, but in some animals occupy other organs or the perivisceral cavity.
With few exceptions, the Gregarines at maturity consist of a comparative!
}large nucleated cell, which for convenience vc\a.y be named the bod}cell, continuous at one pole with a small non-nucleated cell, which in like manner may be viewed as the head cell.
Both cells are filled with fine globular granules, which in mass give the Gregarines a milk-wliite appearance.
S^o mouth or trace of intestinal organs exists.
The outer wall of the cells is a thick, structureless, contractile endosarc ; and within this, in the body cell, tliere is often perceptible, as in Gregnrina larvata of our common Juhis, a well-marked longitudinall}^ striated and appai'ently muscular layer.
The motions of the Gregarines consist of a kind of peristaltic action of the wall of the body cell proceeding from one to the other end.
In the Gregarines, so common in several species of our earthworms, the head cell is absent, and therefore is very properly viewed as of a diflTerent genus from the more ordinary Gregarina under the name of ^fonoci/.^ris.
The 3Ionocyslis agilifi is sausagelike in form, and is usually from ^ to | of a millimetre in length.
In movement its contractions may commence at one end and proceed towards the opposite end, or it may commenco at both ends proceeding towards the middle, or may commence in the latter position and proceed towards the ends.
From the researches of Lieberkiihn and others, it appears that the Gregarines of earthworms assume a globular form and become encysted, and the granular contents are in a greater measure resolved into navicula-shapcd germs, whicli have been named pseudonaviculfe or navicellae or psorosperms.
Lieberkiihn was led to consider the aniad)oid perivisceral corpuscles of the earthworm, as anifeba-like enil)ryos derived from the navicelhc, but it is very doubtful whetlier there is any relationship whatever between the two.
Both Gregarines and navicella-cysts are met with in the intestine of our common earthworm, but the cj^sts are to be found most frequently and abundant!
}in the sperm vesicles.
In the six vesicles of an earthworm Prof. Leidv had counted 1540 mature navicella-cysts, together with a number of groups of immature cysts.
The mature cysts, readilyvisible to the naked e3-e, as minute pearl3--white globules, by transmitted light have a peculiar pale blue hue.
They measure about j of a millimetre in diameter.
A cyst burst open spread its navicellre over a millimetre square, and was estimated to contain about 2500.
Tiiese were quite uniform in size, and measured 0.0133 mm.
long and 0.00G65 broad.
E. Van Beneden has clearly traced the development of the Gregarina of the Lobster from Amoeba-like embr3'os, so that it is not improbable that similar embryos may be derived from the uavicellfB.
The Gregarines are usually viewed as constituting the lowest class of the Protozoa, and hence the lowest of animals.
From tlieir structure and mode of development.
Prof. L. considered them as holding a higlier rank than Khizopods, and occupying a position intermediate to these and the Infusoria.
Prof. L. further stated that in a large earthworm, Linnbriciis terredriii^ from the A'ard of his residence, the posterior pair of sperm vesicles alone contained upwards of a thousand navicellacysts, besides several thousand Gregarines, Monocystis agih's, exhibiting the varieties of condition, such as have been represented by Schmidt, Lieljerkiihn, and others.
Many of the Gregarines were invested with motionless cilia, while other activelj* contracting individuals possessed no trace of these appendages.
Some of the Gregarines further exhibited transition stages towards transformation into navicella-cysts.
The latter ditfeied from those previoush' mentioned in having but a single thin membranous layer for their wall instead of many la3-ers.
Prof. L. added that our earthworms, which appear to be the same as the common European species, likewise a|>pear to be infested with the same variety and kind of parasites.
Among the latter he had re2)eatediv observed the infusorian AnoplophTija liimhrici, and also several different nematoids.
One of these, which he had found in the sperm vesicles, appeared to be nndescril>ed.
It was certainly different from the Dicelis filaria found in the same organs by Dujardin.
It appears near!}'
related with Angxiillula^ and may be regarded as such with the name o^ A.melancholica.
Its characters are as follows: Bod3^ cylindrical, tapering at the ends, distinctl3' annulated.
Head truncated, with the vertex convex, and perforated centralh' b3' the mouth, and defined from tlie sides b}' an elevated annulus.
Tail conical, and ending in a short, thick conical process.
Mouth a minute round pore, unarmed ; pharynx a siiort narrow tube ; oesophagus long, cylindroid, widening posteriorl3-, and rather abruptly narrowed at the anterior extremity ; gizzard wider than the oesophagus, cylindrical and rounded at the extremities; intestine straight, intensely black or blackish brown.
Length from 3 to 4 millimetres; thickness at middle 0.15 m. Length of oesophagus 0.5 m., of gizzard 0.125 m., thickness 0.075 m., thickness of intestine 0.05 m., length of tail from anal aperture 0.175 m. Color black, with the anterior end white.
All females.
Sometimes upwards of a dozen found in the sperm vesicles of a single earthw^orm.
May 22.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Forty-three members present.
The death of Matthew Baird was announced.
On Ghilomonas.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that while strolling along the sandy beach at Cape May, N. J., he observed that in a number of places, where the water of hollows had sunken away in the sand, a tliin yellowish-green film colored the surface.
A portion of this green matter scraped up was put in a bottle with sea water.
The lieavier sand subsided, and the green matter remained in suspension, giving the water an olive-green color, reminding one of the colored turbid liquor decanted from ajar of stale preserved olives.
The color was suspected to be due to the presence of diatomes, but on microscopic examination it proved to be caused by multitudes of a greenish Monad, probably pei*taining to the genus Cliilomonas.
The minute flagellate infusorian is discoid-oval in form, with a slight emargination laterally a short distance posterior to the fore extremity.
The emargination apparently indicates the position of the mouth, and from it projected a single delicate flagellum, scarcely distinguishable.
At times tlie little creature assumed a more circular shape, or became reniform.
It moved activeh' forward, rolling over from one side to the other, and rapidly vibrated the flagellum.
Under a high power the animal appeared transparent and colorless or faintly bluish, with two or three large balls of a yellowish-green hue, and several transparent, colorless, and well-defined globules.
In size the monad ranged from the ^^^g^jth to ^^Vo^'^ of an inch in length.
An average-sized individual measured 0.008 mm.
long, 0.006 broad, and 0.004 thick.
On Enstatife.
— Dr. George A. Konig placed on record the occurrence of Enslatile as one of the associates of corundum in Georgia, The material came to Dr. A. E. Foote from a dealer in that State, with other specimens, sliowing the characteristic associations of corundum, spinel, and chlorite.
At first sight the mineral appears like filjrolite, altering into damourite, so well known from corundum localities.
It occurs in tabular aggregations with eminent cleavage, parallel to the prism of 93°, to the clinopinakoid, and decidedly, but less distinct, to the base.
Enstatite is Orthorhombic, according to Kenngott and Descloizeaux.
The specimen under examination, however, is Monoclinic^ by the pronounced cleavage parallel to the base ; the form is therefore closely that of pyroxene, with the exception that in the latter mineral the plane passes through the main axis and the clinodiagonal intersects the acute angle of prism (87°j, whilst in the present case this plane intersects the obtuse prismatic angle (93°).
This relation was noticed on a number of cleavage fragments.
In a plate parallel to the clinopinakoid (principal cleavage plane), no polarization takes place.
Owing to the fibrous structure the speaker was not able to prepare an optical section parallel to the basal plane or at right angles to the main axis, and the optical constants could not be ascertained.
Lustre vitreous on prismatic faces, pearly on the pinakoid.
Color slightly 3'ellowish olive-green to Colorless.
Chromite in small srains is noticed in the mineral.
Hardness 5.5.
Sp.
gr.
= 8.235 (20° C).
B.
B. Infusible.
Manganese reaction with fluxes.
Decomposes with sulphuric acid slowlj'.
Composition: — 0.
SiO, = 57.70 30.75 MgO = 35.83 14.33 FeO = 4.96 1.10 MnO = 0.20 AbOj = 0.91 H;0 = 0.78 100.44 li : gi = 1 : 1.994.
RO, SiO.,.
Fe : Mg : Si : O = 1 : 12.33 : 13.84 :"41.8.
The empirical formula is, therefore: — FeMff,, Si„ 0„.
May 29.
Wm.
S. Yaux, Vice-President, in the chair.
Thirty-eight members present.
On Painted Turtles.
— Miss S. P. Monks stated that our common painted turtle, Chrysemijs picta^ Herm., is distinguished from the western species, Chrj/xemijs oregonensis^ Harl., by its smaller size and uniform yellow plastron.
Ch.oregonensis has a dark lyriform blotch extending the length of the plastron.
About the middle of April she found, in a marsh near Cold Spring.
N. Y., a Ch.
picta about two and a half inches long which had a black mark on its plastron.
The mark, each side of the central line, is irregular, about a quarter of an inch wide, and beginning at the anterior part of the anal shield extends an inch and ends on the posterior portion of the pectoral shield.
It may not be rare to find eastern turtles marked so, but she had never seen one, either smaller or larger than this specimen, among all the specimens she had examined.
On Flukes infesting ^loUnsks.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that our common fresh-water molhisks, especiall}the gastropods, were much infested with flukes.
These appear to be prevalent during the latter part of the year and absent during the earlier part.
Drawings were exhibited of the sporoc^'sts and cercariag of two species of flukes infesting Planorhis parvius.
The species were named and described as follows : — MoxosTOMA (Glexocercaria) LT'CAXICA.
Sporocysl bright orange colored, cylindroid in form, with obtusely rounded extremities.
Pharynx globular, from which is suspended a long cylindrical pouch-like stomach, black in hue, extending two-thirds the length of the bod}'.
Body cavity distended with cercaritfi in various stages of development.
Cercaria white; with a compressed ovoid body emarginate behind; tail cylindro-conical, i)ointed, as long or longer than the body, often constricted so as to appear more or less moniliform.
Ej-es two, black; with an intermediate black pigment spot looking like a third eye, and a number of smaller pigment spots scattered in the vicinit}of the eyes.
No acetabulum.
Pharynx globular ; intestine bipartite.
A distinct pore situated ventrally near the root of the tail.
Length of sporocysts from | to 1 mm.
Length of cercariiie ^ mm.
The sporocyst is quite active, elongating and shortening; retracting and projecting the pharynx.
It also exhibits strong peristaltic movements, in which the body becomes constricted tigiitly just back of the pharynx or in any position beyond.
The contraction gradually extending backward and dividing the body cavity into two compartments, the cercarii^ are suddenly slipped through the constriction, one after the other from the posterior to the anterior compartment.
The movements of the cercaria, liberated from the sporocyst, consist mainly in elongation and narrowing and shortening witli widening of the body.
Elongation of the l)ody causes it to exceed the length of the tail.
At times the lateral extremities of the posterior emargination of the body are prolonged into short conical appendages.
This fluke occurs abundantly beneath the muscular tegument, among the lobes of the liver, and folds of the intestine of rianorbis parvus.
Upwards of fifty of the sporocA'sts distended with cercarise have been removed from a single Planorbis.
DiSTOMA (GTMJfOCEPHALA) ASCOIDEA.
Sporocyst white.
Head distinct from the body, campanulate, varying in the proportion of length to breadth, according to the degree of contraction.
Bod}" cylindroid, with a pair of lateral conical appendages, beyond which it extends as a cylindro-conical tail-like prolongation.
Pharynx globular, encircled with six equidistant organs (undetermined in character, probably teeth?
or perhaps ganglia).
Stomach a flask-like pouch extending but a short distance from the head into the body cavity, and not reaching the middle of the latter even in its most shortened condition ; bright brown in color.
Body cavit}' distended with numerous cercarije; the immature ones occupying the tail-like prolongation.
An orifice at the extremity of a blunt conical snout communicates with the body cavitj' just back of the head.
Cercaria^ white ; with an obcordate, or when elongated a clavate bod}', and a long, narrow, cylindro-conical pointed tail.
Cephalic end triangular, and slightly constricted from the rest of the body ; posterior part broadly emarginate.
A ventral acetabulum near or posterior to the centre of the body, and between it and the root of the tail an oval pore.
Eyes none.
Pharynx globular ; gizzard small ; divisions of the intestine extending about two-thirds the length of the body.
Length of sporoc^sts of different ages, from | to 1 mm.
Length of cercarise 5 to f mm.
In motion the sporocj'sts contract the head so that it maj'beof nearl}' equal length and breadth, and it may be extended so as to be double the length of the breadth.
The body also elongates and shortens in the same manner.
Cercarije were observed in several instances escaping from the snout-like projection of the bodj' cavity back of the head.
The cercariae in movement elongate excessively, and the bodjmay be extended so as to be almost as narrow as the root of the tail.
The ventral disk is often protruded into a conical appendage or expanded into a broad cup.
The tail becomes longer, narrower, and more pointed, or shorter, wider, and beaded.
This fluke occupies a similar position in the Planorbis as in the former, and has been found in equal numbers, but the two species have not been found associated in the same individual.
The distoma form of the ascoid fluke, encysted, was also observed in Planorbis parvus, without any traces of tlie generative organs being obvious.
A free swimming cercaria, identical in character with that of the ascoid fluke, has lieen observed in water, which contained many individuals of Planorbis parous, and Lininsea elodes.
The free cercaria agrees with the description of the Cercaria minuta, Nitzsch, found with various fresh-water mollusks of Europe.
14 Prof. L. further exhibited drawings of a Distoma, the Bhopalocerca tardigrada^ Diesing, from the mi\.\\X\e of Anodon Jluiyiatiliii ; a second the Heleroi>tomum echinalum, Diesing, from the ovidnct of Pahidina decisa ; and a tliird from Helix arborea, X.\\\xs described : — Distoma APPEXDicrLATA.
TransluL-ent wliite, band-like, widest in front and rounded at tlie head, tapering behind and truncate at the end.
Pliarynx and ventral disk large and nearly equal and about \ mm.
diameter.
The gizzard comj)aratively large and oval.
Intestine bifurcate with the branches parallel, and with an intermediate pouch-like appendage extending nearly half wa}' to the position of the ventral disk.
A posterior opening communicates witli a pouch and a water vascular system.
No traces of a generative apparatus observable.
Length 1 mm.
Andrew C. Craig, William John Potts, John E. Cook, Chas.
Zentmayer, Samuel L. Fox, Shippeu Wallace, and Jos.
D. Schoales, M.D., were elected members.
S. Fisher Corlies w-as elected a member of Council for the unexpired term of Dr. J. G. Hunt, resigned.
The following papers were ordered to be published: — VICINITY.
(No.
3.)
BY H. C. YARROW.
In the Proceedings of the Ac.adeni}' of Xatiiral Sciences for 18T1 a series of papers Avas commenced, by Dr. Elliott Coues, with the above title, and it was determined to continue them from time to time until the fauna and flora of the locality — so far as had been observed — sliould be described, but OAving to unavoidable circumstances the publication of certain of the papers has been delayed until the present moment.
It is now proposed to continue them under the joint authorship of Dr. Coues and the AY r iter.
FISHES.
■ It will readily be seen, ui)on a perusal of a foregoing article describing the situation of Fort Macon, Beaufort harbor, and the adjoining waters, that the circumstances of its position render it peculiarly attractive and interesting to the student of Ichthyology, afll'ording an admirable field for obtaining specimens, the following list showing that one hundred and seven species of fishes have been secured by Dr. Coues and the writer during the short period of their residence at that point.
In the identification of the specimens thanks are due for assistance to Prof. S. F. Baird, Prof. Theo.
Gill, Prof. F. W. Putnam, and Prof. G. BroAvn Goode.
The classification and names given are those adopted by Prof Gill in his Catalogue of the Fishes of the East Coast of North America, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, No.
283, 1873.
Local names are given whenever known, but these names are mostly those used b}' the inhabitants of the region under discussion.
Species marked with C. represent those secured by Dr. Coues, Avith Y. by Dr. YarroAv, C. and Y. by both.
Chilomycterus geometricus (Linn.
), Kaup.
Spiny Toad-fish.
Sea Porcupine.
Tolerabl}^ common ; found in nets and taken Avith hook from wharf.
Size from four to six inches.
Is not eaten.
C. and Y. Tetrodon laevigatus (Linn.
), Gill.
Puffer.
Smooth Puffer.
Found in small streams running through salt marshes; but few seen.
Found in nets, and is taken with the hook.
Xever eaten, being considered poisonous.
Size, from three to six inches.
Y. CMlichthys turgidus (Mitch ), Gill.
Puffer.
Balloon-fish.
Common ; found in same localities as preceding species, and, like it, is generally found in nets, but will also take the hook.
Not eaten.
Y. Lactophrys trigonus (Linn.
), Poey.
Camel-fish.
Box-fish.
Prof. Gill states that the appearance of this fish on the coast is accidental.
Two specimens were found on the beach at Fort Macon after a southeast gale.
Alutera cuspicauda, De Eay.
File-fish.
Is probably rare, as but a single specimen was taken.
C. Ceratacanthus auriantiacus (Mitch.
), Gill.
File-fish.
Devil-fish.
Tolerably abundant, generally taken on outer beach in mullet nets.
Specimens vary in size from three to eleven inches.
Is not eaten.
C. and Y. Stephanolepis setifer (Bennett), Gill.
File-fish.
Fool-fish.
Devil-fish.
This species is more abundant than either of the two preceding species, and is taken in same localities and in same manner.
Is not eaten.
C. and Y. Hippocampus hudsonius, De Eay.
Sea-horse, Horse-fish.
Specimens seen were very small, and the species is doubtless rare, as several were presented to the writer bj^ the fishermen as great curiosities.
The occurrence of this fish at Fort Macon increases its southern distribution bj^ nearly one hundred and fifty miles, its limits, according to Gill, extending from Cape Cod to Cape Hatteras.
C. and Y. Syngnathns peckianus, Storer.
Pipe-fisli.
Few specimens seen ; of small size ; taken in nets and by dredging on Bird Shoal (the home of Lingula), between Fort Macon and Beaufort.
None seen after July.
Size fx'om two to six inches.
C. and Y. Fistularia tabaccaria (Linn).
Trumpet fish.
Uncommon.
One specimen was taken on the beach Sept. 25, 1871, 12 inches in length, another smaller one in November of the same j-ear.
Y. Plagusiaplagiusa (Linn.
), GillFlounder.
Abundant on shoals in Beaufort Harbor.
Will take the hook freel3', but is generall}' captured by spearing after nigljtfall.
Is esteemed a valuable food fish.
C. Achirus lineatus (Linn.
), Cuv.
Flat-fish.
Flounder.
The same remarks will apply to this as to preceding species, except regarding abundance, the fishermen considering it rare.
Y. Fseudoplearonectes americanns (Walb.
), Gill.
Flounder.
Flat-fish.
Rare as compared with other species of this family, few specimens being seen, Lophopsetta maculata (Mitch ), Gill.
Spotted flounder.
Plaice.
Fluke.
Exceedingly abundant from early in the spring until late in the fall on sand shoals and beach inside of inlet.
Is taken in nets, and by hook and spearing at night.
It is a peculiarity of the flounders to approach the shore at night and bur}' themselves in the sand, leaving only the snout and eyes exposed, and the fishermen being aware of this fact are enabled to capture very many in the following manner.
A canoe is prepared with a grating or pan in the bow to contain fat pine, which, being lighted, the boat is propelled slowly by a person in the stern while another, armed with a spear, stands in the bow behind the fire.
The craft is made to approach the shore closely, and as the eyes of the fish reflect back the firelight they are easily seen, and the spear is driven into the sand a few inches behind the point where the}' appear.
Hundreds of fishes are taken in this manner.
In some instances the fisherman simply walks along the shore carr3-ing in his hands a torch and spear.
This species is considered excellent food.
Size from one and a half inch to twent^'-eight and a half inches, the size of a specimen obtained in Sept. 1871.
C. and Y. Chsenopsetta occellaris (De Kay), Gill.
Cluenopsetta dentata (Lhiu.
), Gill.
Flounder.
Flat-fish.
Both species tolerably abundant.
C. and Y. Chaenopsetta oblonga (Mitch.
), Gill.
Four-spotted Flouuder.
Fluke.
Not so abundant as preceding species, but is occasionally taken of large size.
From this locality it is recorded as its farthest southern distribution.
Y. TJrophycis regius (Walb.
), Gill.
Spotted Codliug.
Apparently rare, but one specimen having been secured.
C. Ophidium marginatum, Mitch.
Cusk.
Single specimen only observed.
C. Zoarces anguillaris (Peck), Storer.
Eel-pout.
In May, 1871, two specimens were taken by hook from the Fort Macon wharf; these were small in size ; none seen thereafter.
Y. Blennius fucorum, Cuv.
and Val.
Sea-weed fish.
A single specimen seen, which was found in refuse of net.
Y. Hypleurochilus punctatus (Wood), Gill.
Spotted sea-weed fish.
Tolerably abundant.
C. and Y. Batrachus tau, Linn.
Toad-fish.
Oyster-fish.
Exceedingly numerous in small marshy creeks, and are a great nuisance to anglers.
In April, 1871, a female was discovered watcliing her eggs, which had been deposited in an old boot-leg ; the tide had receded, leaving her in about four inches of Avater, and, although attempts were made to drive her away, she preferred to remain, and was consequent!
}captured.
Eggs Iiave also been discovered in old tin cans.
Tlie size of individuals seen varied from four to eii^ht inches.
C. and Y. Astroscopus anoplus (Cuv.
& Val.
), Brevoort.
Star-gazer.
Rare, but a single specimen taken.
C. Prionotus punctatus (Bloch), Cuv.
Spotted flying-fish.
Sea Robin.
Prionotus carolinus (Linn), Cuv.
and VaL Fh'ing-tish.
Botli species toleral)ly al)undant during spring and summer.
Are talven in nets and by liook.
Size six to ten inches.
C. and Y. Tautoga onitis (Linn.
), Gthr.
Black-fish.
Apparently rare, as but few specimens were seen.
Y. Choerojulis grandisquamis, Gill.
But one specimen secured.
Y. Xiphias gladius, Linn.
Sword-fish.
Not seen, but reliable information received of its occasional appearance near Cape Lookout.
Y. Trichiurus lepturus, Linn.
Sword-fish.
Hair-tail.
Not abundant, the few secured being taken just inside tlie surf in mullet nets.
Have seen them in compan3'with Gars swimming on surface of the water near the wharf feeding on small fislies, at which time they would snap at a baited hook, but none were captured.
Are called "sword fisli" b}' the fishermen, from tlieir resemblance to the blade of a sword.
Size averages from 30 to 40 inches ; one specimen of 48 inches secured.
C. and Y. Sarda pelamys (Linn ), Cuv.
Bonito.
Tolerably abundant near Shackleford Banks.
Y. Orcynus secundi-dorsalis (Storer), Gill.
Bouito.
Albicore.
Sun-fish.
Horse Mackerel.
First noticed in May, after which time it became tolerably abundant.
A number of specimens were taken on the beach, upon wliich they had leaped from the water.
Is frequently found in companj^ with blue fish in September, and its appearance within the inlet is regarded by the fishermen as a sure indication of rough weather outside.
Is not eaten.
Size from four to twenty-four inches.
Y. Cybium maculatum (Mitch.
), Cuv.
Spanish Mackerel.
Very abundant in latter part of August and September, and is freqnentl3' found with blue-fisli.
A favorable locality is near the southern point of Shackleford Banks, and it is there taken in nets and by hook; a great many are also taken near Cape Lookout in gill nets in September.
Is highly esteemed as food, but is not often eaten fresh, being generally salted.
Size from ten to thirty inches.
C. and Y. Cybium regale (Bloch), Cuv.
Spotted Mackerel.
King-fish.
Not abundant, a single specimen only being seen.
Y. Vomer setipinnis (Mitch.
), Ayres.
Horse-fish.
Sun-fish.
Abundant in the fall, numbers being taken on outer beach in company with mullet.
C. and Y. Selene argentea, Lac.
Moon-fish.
Sun-fish.
Same remarks apply as.
to the preceding species.
C. and Y. Argyriosus vomer, Lac.
Moon-fish.
Argyriosus capillaries (Mitch.
), De Kay.
Moon-fish.
Not so abundant as the preceding species ; are found in their compau}^, and it will be seen that the fishermen of tlie locality recognize no specific differences, calling them all either moonor sun-fish.
First appear in Beaufort Harbor about May.
C. and Y. Paratractus pisquetos (Cuv.
and Val.
), Qill.
Yellow Mackerel.
A single specimen seen in September, 18T1.
C. and Y. Carangus hippos (Linn.
), Gill.
Horse Mackerel.
Carangus chrysos (Mitch), Gill.
Yellow Mackerel.
Not abundant, a few seen in early fall, and one specimen fourteen inclies long taken May, 1871.
Blepharichthys crinitus (Akerly), Gill.
Moon-fish.
Shoemaker.
A few individuals taken in summer and fall ; largest seen twelve inches lonsj.
Y. Trachynotus carolinns (Linn.
), GillPompano.
Sun-fish.
Abundant in fall, and is taken in the mullet nets.
Considered an excellent food-fish.
C. and Y. Naucrates ductor (Linn.
), Raf.
Pilot-fish.
No specimens secured, but the appearance of the fish was so accurately described by several fishermen as to remove all doubts regardino; its occasional occurrence.
Y. Halatractus zonatus (Mitch.
), Gill.
Rudder-fish.
A single specimen observed.
Y. Poronotus triacanthus (Peck), Gill.
Not abundant.
C. and Y. Cynoscion carolinenis (Cuv.
and Val.
), Gill.
Speckled Trout.
Yery abundant from February to June, April being considered the best month ; are taken at this time in nets only, as they will not take the hook until September, upon their return from the northward.
The roe in female specimens was found to be quite large in April.
Size from six to thirty-six inches ; one specimen, taken September, 1871, with hOok, measured twenty-four inches in length and weighed three and three-quarters pounds.
In 1872 the species first appeared January 9th, which was considered unusuall}' early.
C. and Y. Cynoscion regalis (Bloch), Gill, Weak-fish.
Sea Trout.
Gray Trout.
Not so abundant as preceding species, appearing with them in early spring; tolerably abundant in summer; taking the hook freely.
Size ten to thirty inches.
Y. Fogonias chromis, Laup.
Drum.
Exceedingly abundant, resident, and is taken both within and outside of inlet.
This species runs in schools in early spring, but in the fall is generally found alone, and will take the hook.
A very large specimen was taken in September, while trolling for blue-fish.
Is not considered a good table fish, the flesh being coarse, rank, and stringy.
Size ten inches to five feet.
C. and Y. Liostomus xanthurus, Lacep.
Yellow tail.
Abundant in fall.
Y. Liostomus obliquus (Mitch.
), De Kay, Robin.
Pin-fish.
Yery abundant.
C. and Y. Bairdiella punctata (Linn.
), Gill.
Yellow-finued Perch.
Occasionally seen.
C. Sciaenops ocellatus (Linn.
), Gill.
Spotted Sea Bass.
Not abundant ; a few seen in fall.
C. and Y. Menticirrus alburnus (Linn.
), Gill.
Whiting.
Menticirrus nebulosus (Mitch.
), Gill.
King-fish.
Whiting.
Menticirrus littoralis (Holbr.
), Gill.
Sea Mullet.
These species are all more or less abundant in the fall, when they are found in company with the mullet on sea-beach.
C. and Y. Micropogon undulatus (Linn.
), Cuv.
and Val.
Croaker.
Crocus.
Abundant, and can be taken from March until August.
Size four to eight inches.
C. and Y. Lagodon rhomboides (Linn), llolbr.
Not abundant.
C. and Y. Archosargus probatoceplialus (Walb.
), Gill.
Sheepshead.
Abundant in early spring; will not take the hook until later in season.
In 1871 large numbers were taken in the bight of Cape Lookout in nets.
Size eight to twent^'-four inches.
A small specimen was taken January 30, 1872; an earl}^ arrival.
Y. Stenotomus argyrops (Linn.
), Gill.
Scup.
Porgy.
Abundant.
C. and Y. Prof. F. W. Putnam, to whom is due the identification of the specimens collected by Dr. Coues, states that in the collection he found an individual resembling S. arfjyrops^ but which differed in several essential particulars, having a well-marked black blotch on the tail immediatelj^ posterior to the dorsal fin, a very fine margin of black on the membrane of the spine of the dorsal fin, the ventrals dusk}'.
D. xii.
14 ; A. iii.
13.
Hsemulon arcuatum, Cuv.
and Val.
Hog-fish.
Grunts.
Yeiy abundant in early spring and summer, and are generally found in the marsh}'^ creeks inside of inlet.
Size four to eight inches.
Y. Orthopristis fulvomaculatus (Mitch.
), Gill.
Spots.
Abundant ; resident in same localities as preceding species, and raay be taken at all seasons of the year.
Size four to eight inches.
The 3^oung of this species found in compau}' with \'oung mullet in January-, 1S72.
C. and Y. Ephinephelus morio (Cuv.
;, Gill.
Grouper.
Yery rare ; one specimen onl}seen.
Y. Centropristis atrarius (Linn.
), Barn.
Sea Bass.
Black Bass.
Numerous off Shackleford Banks, in the vicinity of Cape Lookout.
C. and Y. Roccus lineatus (Bl.
Schn.
), Gill.
Striped Bass.
Rock.
Rock-fish.
Full-grown specimens seldom seen in the immediate vicinity of Fort Macon, but the young are abundant.
In the Xew River, one of the affluents of Beaufort Inlet, adults are numerous, and in the Neuse the}' are exceedingly' plenty.
Y. Morone americana (Gmelin), Gill.
White Perch.
No specimens seen in Beaufort Inlet, but the}' abound in the New and Neuse Rivers.
Y. Parephippus faber (Cuv.
), Gill.
Horseman.
Moon-fish.
Pogy.
Not abundant ; a few specimens taken from mullet nets in September, C. and Y. Fomatomus saltatrix (Linn.
), Gill.
Bhie-fisb.
Tailor.
Snapping Mackerel.
This species appears iu Beaufort Inlet in early spring, but is taken only in nets.
In June it commences to take the hook, but the months of August and September arc the best for trolling.
At this time enormous numbers may be found in schools, swimming alongside shoals in tolerably rough water.
On the 23d day of September, 18*71, four persons, in four hours, took by trolling 660 Blue-fish.
During the latter part of this month, in the same year, enormous scliools were noticed in and near the ship channel, feeding upon the red-billed Gar, so-called, Hemiraviphus unifasciatus^ Ranz.
The stomachs of individuals taken were literally crammed with these fishes.
Tlie very large specimens of blue-fish occasionally met with in the markets in January never enter Beaufort Inlet; they are taken on the beach from Cape Lookout northward, the run lasting sometimes two months, occasionall}' only a •week or ten days.
During the last week of December, 1871, large schools of young blue-fish were noticed in Beaufort Inlet swimming from the southward, apparentlymaking for the sea; their size about four inches.
C. and Y. Elacate canadus (Linn.
), Crill.
Crab-eater.
The fishermen speak of a fish which is supposed to be this species ; none were seen.
Leptecheneis naucrates (Linn.
), QiU.
Sucker.
Uncommon; two specimens seen.
C. and Y. l ' Echeneis remora, Linn.
Sucker.
Uncommon; a few specimens seen, which were taken by the fishermen on Shackleford Banks.
They stated that these fish were found ?
in the mouths of sharks.
Size of specimen six inches.
Y. Sphyraena borealis, De Eay.
Barracuta.
Uncommon ; a few taken occasionally near Cape Lookout.
Mugil lineatus, Mitchell.
Striped Mullet.
Mullet.
This species is the most abundant of the locality', and affords sustenance and employment to thousands of persons on the coast of North Carolina.
From the month of ^lay, when small-sized individuals appear, fishing continues during the entire summer ■with gill and small draw nets, and in the latter part of August, as the fish commence to school preparatory to migration, the regular seine fishing commences, and continues frequently' until November.
The schools appear to come from the northward through Albemarle, Pamlico, and Cove Sounds, gradually working their way to the southward.
Their departure through the various inlets seems to depend upon a favorable state of the wind, which should be from the northward, for it has been noticed frequentl}' that when the wind hauled, the schools of mullet already without the harbor have suddenh' turned, re-entering the inlet, and pursued their course southward through Bogue Sound.
Their movements through the water are quite slow, and a person without exertion may keep pace with them walking upon the beach.
The numbers taken are simply enormous, sometimes as man}' as 500 barrels being secured at a single haul.
It was estimated by competent observers that not less than 12,000 barrels of mullet were captured on the coast of North Carolina Friday, September 22, 1871.
Regarding the spawning grounds of 31. lineatus considerable uncertainty exists.
At the time of their arrival at Fort Macon, in August and September, the females are enormously distended with roe, some, however, being more so than others, and it is supposed that the process of oviposit takes place from July until December, many remaining in the sounds for the purpose.
Many schools of young mullet have been seen in Beaufort harbor during December and January, which could have been but a few weeks old.
These young fishes suffer from a curious disease, which is characterized by the presence of a gradually increasing film upon the eyes, which finally destroys the sight, and myriads perish from this cause.
They also suffer from parasites, one of wliich is long and tliread-like, with a stellate head, the other, called by the fishermen " sea-louse ;" these parasites have never been noticed by the writer upon adults.
Size from one and a half inches to thirty.
C. and Y. Chirostoma notata (Mitch.
), Gill.
Silver-sides.
Smelt.
Atherina Carolina, Val.
Sand-smelt.
Rather uncommon, a few specimens only seen.
C. and Y. Belone longirostris (Mitch.
), GillBill-fish.
Gar.
Is quite abundant ; appearing in Beaufort Inlet in February.
At this time it swims in schools, and many are taken in nets.
When swimming near the surface of the water it will readily take the hook.
Is eaten b^^ poor fishermen and negroes, and the flesh is said to be good.
The largest specimen seen measured twentyfour inches in length.
C. and Y. Exocoetus melanurus, Val.
Flyiug-fish.
Occasionally seen, Y. Hemirhamphus unifasciatus, Ranzani.
Red-billed Gar.
Abundant during latter part of August and entire month of September.
This species appears to feed along the beach in shallow water, and may be readily taken at night witli a torch and scoop net.
It is also found in tlie channel and along the edges of shoals where blue-fish congregate, this fish devouring enormous numbers.
The small fry of fishes appear to be attracted by the bright red caruncle on the end of the lower mandible of H. ■unifasciatus, and, swimming near to it, lose their lives as a penaltyfor curiosity.
C. and Y. Scomberesox scutellatus, Lesueur.
Skipper.
Sea-pike.
First observed in June, 1871, and in August of the same j'ear several were taken with hook and line inside the inlet.
Are not eaten by the fishermen, who declare them poisonous.
Size twentyfour inches in length.
Y. Cyprinodon variegatus, Lac.
Minuow.
Fundulus pisculentus (Mitch.
), Val.
]Munuuich()!;.
^Ilnuow.
Hydrargyra majalis (Walb), Val.
Hydrargyra swampina, Lac.
iMinnow.
These four species are exceedingl}' abundant in the marshy creeks, and are all called by the residents "Minnows."
C. and Y. Albula conorhynchus, Bloch and Schneider.
Lady -fish.
Not observed bj' Dr. Coues or the writer, but is admitted to the list upon the authority' of a reliable fisherman of the locality, Capt.
A. Guthrie.
Elops saurus, Linn.
Sea-Pike.
Occasionall}' noticed.
C. and Y. Megalops thrissoides (Bl.
and Sch.
), Giintli.
Jew-fish.
Tarpum.
Said by fishermen to be very rare.
None observed.
Brevoortia menhaden (Mitch), Gill.
Menhaden.
Mossbunker.
Fat-back.
Yellow-tail.
Yery numerous in August and September; large numbers are netted and used for oil and manure.
C. and Y. Alosa sapidissima (Wilson), Storer.
Shad.
Not abundant in vicinity of Fort Macon, but in the Neuse are excessively so.
C. and Y. Opisthonema thrissa, Gill.
Haiiy-back.
Thread Herring.
This species, as a rule, appears early in June, and is regarded as the avant-courier of the herring, so-called, P. pseudoha7^engus ; it is abundant, but is not eaten to any extent.
Size ten to twelve inches.
Y. Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson).
Gill.
Heiriug.
Bhie-back.
Alewife.
Not abundant except in Neuse River, and the sounds further to the northward.
In fact its scarcit}^ near Fort Macon is such that no regular fishing is followed with a view to its special capture.
Y. Pomolobus mediocris (Mitch.
), Gill.
Hickory Shad.
Hicks.
Fall-Shad.
Abundant; first noticed in March, 1871.
Y. Engraulis brownii (Gmel.
), VaL Smelt.
Several specimen secured, but the species is not common.
Prof. Putnam, after an examination of si)eeimens sent him, states as follows: "Mitchell's descrij)tion of Clupea vittata does not (Viffer from Giinther's of U. hroionii^ but Giinther's description of E. mitcheUii differs in anal raj'S and in lengtli of maxillary, which does not agree with my specimens from Fort Macon."
^lurichthys marinus (Mitch.
), Baird and Girard.
Fork-tailed Catfish.
Ariopsismilberti (Val.
), Gill.
Sea-Cat.
Catfiish.
Both species are occasionally met with near the Fort Macon wharf, but are by no means abundant.
C. and Y. Anguilla bostoniensis (Les.
), De Kay.
Eel.
Yery abundant in marsh}' creeks.
C. and Y. Acipenser oxyrhynchus, Mitch.
Sharp-nosed Sturgeon.
Acipenser brevirostris, Lesueur.
Short-nosed Sturgeon.
Both species said to be abundant in the ^orth, New, and Neuse Rivers.
Ceratoptera vampirus (Mitch.
), Gill.
Devil-fish.
None observed, but the fishermen state they are occasionally seen.
.Etobatis narinari, MUll.
and Henle.
Sting-Ray.
Lady-Ray.
Yery common, sometimes growing to a large size.
C. and Y. Fteroplatea maclura, Miill.
and Henle.
Sand-Skate.
Butterfly Ray.
Yery common in fall outside of inlet.
Nov. 5, 18tl, a specimen was captured five feet in width four feet in length.
C. and Y. Trygon centrura (Mitch ), Gill.
Sling-ray.
Whip-ray.
Stingarce.
Yery common.
Migration takes place southward in latter part of October.
In July, 18T1, a very large specimen was found expiring upon the beach ; upon dissection the liver and gall-bladder were found filled with worms.
C. and Y. Torpedo occidentalis, Storer.
Cramp-fish.
Torpedo.
Electric Ray.
None observed ; fishermen state tliey are rarely seen.
In tliis connection it may be mentioned tliat Capt.
Absalom Guthrie, an intelligent fisherman of Shackleford Banks, stated to the writer tbat upon a certain occasion, in removing fishes from his net, he received a very perceptible electric shock from a fish resembling the common toad-fish, B. tau, and upon repeating his examination of the animal he experienced the same sensation a number of times; when touching the head, the fisli appeared to advance this organ as if eager to discharge the electric fluid.
Expressing incredulity, a number of fishermen were called who corroborated Capt.
Guthrie's statement in every particular.
Some three or four sjjecimens had been found in the net at this time, since which none have been seen, although a large reward was oflered for living specimens.
Raia laevis, Mitch.
Skate.
Winter Skate.
Common.
Y. Pristis antiquorum (Linn.
), Lath.
Saw-fish.
^ot observed in the immediate vicinitj' of Fort Macon, but is abundant in the brackish rivers emptying into Bogue and Cove sounds.
It is frequently' taken in the New River, and attains a considerable magnitude, the writer having secured a so-called "saw" five feet in length from an individual over sixteen feet long which had been captured in this river.
The fishermen state that this species is exceedingly hostile to the porpoise, and will fight it whenever opportunity occurs.
Y. Isuropsis dekayi, GilL Mackerel-shark.
Yery rare, a single skeleton having been seen.
Y. Eugomphodus littoralis, Gill.
Sand-shark.
Shovel-nose.
Tolerabl}^ abundant both within and outside of inlet.
Y. Sphyrna zygsena (Linn), Mull, and Henle.
Hammer-head Shark.
But a single individual seen.
Y. Keniceps tiburo (Linn.
), Gill.
Shovel-head Shark.
Uncommon.
Y.
A few other species of this family were noticed, but not identified.
15 Branchiostoma caribaeum, Sundevall.
Laucelet.
This curious species, so far as known, is to be obtained in but one localit}', near Fort Macon, viz., on Bird Shoal, which lies to the southward of Beaufort city ; some dozen or more specimens were obtained by dredging.
Y.
A number of species of fresh-water fishes have also been obtained from the rivers contiguous to Fort Macon, but it has been deemed advisable to confine this list to the marine forms almost exclusively'.
It should be mentioned that the inquiries regarding the preceding species of fishes were made at the suggestion and under the direction of Prof. S. F. Baird, U. S. Com.
of Fish and Fisheries.
hroc.
A.N.S.
PMU.» 1377.
PL I QV H II' i -^ v.> cv -^o ^ 1 am I SC «^Via i Rf ^•''M?
*t Wilder OR BraiR of CMmcRra '^^i:^!^^^^ ^'^.
M ^0.
ON THE BRAIN OF CHIMJERA MONSTROSA.
BY BURT G. -WILDER, M.D.
Introduction.
— At the close of a paper upon the brains of the fish-like vertebrates presented before this Acaderay on the 4th of April, 1876, I exhibited a fairlj'' preserved adult male example of Chimsera monstrosa^^ together with a drawing of the brain as then partly exposed.
After calling attention to certain peculiarities which apparently had not before been observed, I expressed the intention of preparing a fall description of it with figures for presentation to the Academy at a future meeting.
In the jDresent paper this intention is fulfilled so far as I have been able, in view of the limited material at my command, and the difficulties of interpretation which now embarrass all students of fishes' brains.
The extent of these difficulties becomes apparent when I state that, since Gegenbaur has lent the weight of his high authority to Miklucho-Maclay's new interpretation of the parts commonly called cerebellum and optic lobes, no region of the brain is clear as to its homology throughout the series of fish-like vertebrates.
For the complete solution of these homologieal problems it is evident that simple and embryonic brains are primarily more useful than those of adults, or those which present peculiar characteristics.
Hence I am availing m3'self of every opportunity' for preparing and figuring, both as wholes and in sections, the brains of Mijxi'ne, Petrom)/zon^ Menobranchus (or Necturus), and embryo sharks.
But it is not likely that an embr3^o Chimsera will soon be available, and it seems hardl}'' advisable to longer defer the publication of facts, some of which, at least, appear to be new and important, simply on account of doubts respecting the terms which should be employed for the designation of parts.
Moreover, notwithstanding its special peculiarities, the brain of Chimsera presents certain features which may enable us to connect brain-forms which have hitherto failed to be reconciled with each other, or with the ideal, or typical brain, as now commonly accepted. '
Kindly placed at my disposal by Mr. Alexander Agassiz, Curator of the Museum of Comparative Zoolog}' at Cambridge, Mass.
Again, as will be shown in the following historical sketch, the brain of Chimsera has not hitherto been accurately figured or fully described.
This fact alone would have led me to welco.ne an opportunity of adding to our knowledge of its structure ; but an additional incentive la^' in the consideration that the three species of Chimsera, with the single species of Callorhynchus^ have always been regarded as peculiar, and not readily assignable to a place among the fish-like vertebrates.
In 1834 Johannes Miiller (23, 74) united the two genera under the title Holocephala, regarding this group as an order of the class Pisces.
Some zoologists have adopted Miiller's view ; but the Holocephala are often included with the sharks and skates under the name Selachians, or Elasmobranchiata.
So far as I am aware the structure of the brain has never been appealed to for the purpose of ascertaining the taxonomic relations of the Holocephala.
I say the structure, because in the arrangement proposed by Maj'er (5), little more than the external foi*m of the brain seems to have been considered.
Historical Sketch.
— So far as I am aware, the earliest account of the brain of Chimsera was by Valentin, in 1842.
He states (1,25) that his specimen was "well-preserved in alcohol;'' but, judging from the figures, its condition was that of most fish-brains which are not exposed to the action of alcohol A'ery soon after death of the animal.
The principal features, however, are shown in so far as the brain was exposed ; but it is evident from both the figure and description that only the hinder region of the brain was examined, and that Valentin failed to discover the olfactory lobes, the " hemispheres," and the greatly' elongated mesothalamic crura, which ai'e characteristic of this type of brain.
He does not state whether the brain was removed from the skull by himself.
The channel connecting the hinder part of the brain-cavity with the front part is so narrow that the existence of ' Ginither (19, viii.
349-352) recognizes the following species of ChimcBra, viz.
: moristrosa, coasts of Europe, Japan, Cape of Good Hope ; coUiet, west coast of North America ; offinis, coast of Portugal.
He also admits but a single species of Callorhynchus, antarcticus ; but Dunieril (29, 692) enumerates five.
References are here made to a list of works at the close of this paper.
the latter might well be overlooked l)y an assistant.
Still the general aspect of the regions examined b}' Valentin differs so much from that of any other entire brain that it is not easy to see how he could have stated his determinations without some qualification.
The short portions of tlie crura which were retained with the hinder regions of the brain, were regarded by Valentin as the olfactory' nerves, and the}' are figured of considerable thickness, although in my specimen they are thin and ribbon-like.
The rounded optic lobes he named hemispheres.
The overhanging cerebellum was interpreted as the thalamus, or lobus ventriculi tertii, and the remaining parts as cerebellum and medulla.
On pages 32 and 33 Valentin speaks of the cavity of the optic lobes (" Sehlappenhohlung"), and designates it on fig.
-i (s) ; but neither the figures nor the description indicate distinctly the parts which he regarded as the optic lobes themselves ; they must certainly have been very small in comparison with the supposed thalamus, since all the other conspicuous portions are otherwise interpreted.
Valentin's opinion as to the taxonomic significance of the brain is expressed in the following passage.
"Peculiar as the brain of Chimsera appears at first sight, it nevertheless proves to be intermediate between the brain of the Cyclostomes [M^'zonts], on the one hand, and that of the Plagiostomes on the other."
(1,39.)
The following year, in his Report upon the progress of Anatomy (2), Johannes Miiller commented as follows upon the paper of Valentin : — "Of the brain of Chimsera we had before no figures, so that these b}'' Valentin, with his description, supply' a real deficienc3\ In the designation of the parts, however, and therefore also in the comparison with other brains, some things prove to be otherwise. "
The description and figures make it very probable that a part of the medulla oblongata is taken for the cerebellum.
This remark of R. Wagner I find to be confirmed by the examination of a well-preserved specimen of the ])rain of Chimsera. "
What is called cerebellum belongs to the medulla, whilst that which the author calls 'the hammer-formed body' and compares with the lobus ventriculi tertii of Cvclostomes is the cerebellum.
The cerebellum and medulla with C/iunasra closely resemble those of all genera of sharks whose brains are known to me."
" The brain of Chimser-a has no resemblance to that of Cjxlostomes, bnt much to that of sharks.
Yet it differs greatly therefrom in the front part, because the optic lobes and tlie hemispheres are fused together, which is not the case with the sharks and skates.
The olfactory nerves, as usual, enlarge behind the olfactory folds into a bulb.
The small swelling from which they spring is the only representative of the great median masses of sharks which are probably the hemispheres."
I have been unable to find the observation of R. Wagner, above referred to, elsewhere recorded, but the foregoing passages lead me to infer that both he and Miiller, like Valentin, believed the entire brain of Ghimsera to be included in what was really only the posterior i)ortion.
It will be seen farther on that Gegenbaur attaches a diflerent signification to Miiller's remarks ; but after careful re-examination of the passage I find myself obliged to adhere to the interpretation above offered.
In 1848, Busch published (3) figures of the brains of Chimeera and of CaUorhynchus ; the latter, however, represents only the posterior region.
I am informed that a copy of this work has been obtained for the American Museum of Natural History in New York ; but the library of which it forms a part has not yet (April, 1877) been placed upon shelves, and I have not been able to examine it.
These figures of Busch were reproduced in 1864 by Mayer (5).
Like many other figures upon the plates of this author, the general aspect of these is good, but they are unsatisfactory in respect to details.
Mayer's description (5, 24, and 25) of these brains is in the form of a classification.
The Iloloeephala are included under " Pisces Proencei)hali," characterized as having '• the olfactory lobe developed into an olfactory hemisphere or cerebrum."
This group includes all the fish-like forms excepting the Teleosts which he designates (5,27) as Pisces Mesencephali, the optic lobe being the hemisphere.
The brains of the Proencephali are further characterized as follows : "The olfactory lobe is two to four times greater than the optic lobe, presents folds or lobes upon its upper surface, and iu the middle two open lateral cavities with swellings within them."
" The optic lobe is small, spherical, without superficial commissure of the two hemispheres, or without corpus callosum,^ and is separated from the olfactory hemisphere b}' an anterior prolongation of the cms cerebri.
The basilar lobes [hypoaria ?]
are little developed.
The cerebellum A-aries in size, so as to form a series.
There is a chiasma."
Ma3^er subdivides the " Pro'encephali" into three suborders and includes the Chimgera3 in the Macroepiencephali corresponding with Selachians, or Plagiostomes and Holocephali.
The characters are as follows : " The optic lobe contains a rudimentary' ventricle, which is afterward united with the third A'entricle, but no inner swellings.
The chiasma is broad.
The cerebellum consists of an anterior and posterior median mass and anterior and posterior convoluted lateral lobes more or less developed."
The " Macroepiencephali" are subdivided into two families, the Raise or Skates, in which the Iieniisphere mass is " as broad as it is long;" and the sharks and Holocephali, in which it is an "elongated oval."
Finall}^, this " familj'" forms two groups, in one of which '"the cerebellum is very large and covers part of the hemisphere," while in the other it "reaches only to the middle of the optic lobes."
In this group are included, Galeus canis, Scyyiwus licJiia, Carcharias glaiicus, Scyllium catuhis, Scyllium borealis, Callorh.ynchus, and Chimaera mojistr'osa.
In a note (p. 25) Maj'er sa^'S, " The hemisphere is particularly slender and long in Scymnus lichia and Chimsera.
Valentin's figure cannot be employed for a different interpretation of the parts.
At any rate what Valentin calls the lohus ventriculi tertii is really the cerebellum."
The foregoing description indicates that Mayer's attention was directed chiefly to the form and general aspect of the brain, and that many of his determinations were based upon analogy rather than homology.
By implication Mayer ascribes lateral ventricles to all the Pro'encephali ; but he makes no special mention of them in the Holocephali, and neither the figures nor descriptions indicate the existence of the large "foramina of Monro," and the swellings therein which are described by me farther on. '
Alluding to certain structures, wliich he regards as rci)rcsenting the corpus cullosum, with the Mesencephali.
The brains of Holocephala are not mentioned by Hollard, or Vulpian (4).
Owen copies (6, I, 2Y6, fig.
179) Busch's figure of the brain of Chimeey-a monstrosa, and does not appear to have examined the brain itself.
The olfactory lobes are united with the succeeding lobes (not separated as in Mayer's figure), and their necks appear to be connected by a thick transverse commissure, which has no existence ; in the original figure this appearance ma}^ have been due to an unintentional exaggeration of shadow.
According to the plan of the work, the author's views of the Chimseroid brain are given in connection with his account of its separate divisions.
The laminae at the sides of the medulla are regarded (p. 276) as developments of the restiform columns.
The optic lobes are mentioned (277) as smaller than either the cerebrum or cerebellum.
The " cerebral crura" (called by me mesothalamus) are said (281) to "advance some way before thej' expand into the prosencephala."
The latter are described (282) as " large, elongated, and smooth."
On the same page it is said that neither the cerebellum nor the optic lobes are so large as the " prosencephalon ;" but on page 288, the cerebellum is said to be "large."
In 1869, Gegenbaur published (8) an extract from a letter from Miklucho-Maclay relating to some peculiarities of the Chimjera's brain, adding remarks upon their morphological and taxonomic significance. "
The brain of Chimaera, as presented in the figures and description of Valentin, offers so many peculiarities that it was impossible to discuss it alone, or in connection with the other series offish brain-forms.
"Miklucho found that the above-mentioned representation agreed in part with the results of his investigations of the brains of Selachians, but in other respects was wholly dissimilar.
That representation showed a Zwischenliirn,' which is similar to that of Selachians.
Valentin took it for tlie hemisphere.
From it proceed a pair of swellings which were supposed to be the olfactory lobes.
Then follows a portion corresponding to tlie Mittelhirn ' This is the common German term for the Thalamencephalon, or lobi ventrlculi tertii ; but Mikhiclio and Gegenbaur apply it, incorrectly, as I believe, to the optic lobes or ^[ittclbirn, and give this latter name to the cerebellum.
This question will be discussed hereafter.
[really the cerebellum], \\'hich Valentin named Zwisclienhirn ; then a cerebellum with a medulla oblongata, which, interpreted as such by Valentin, present the characteristics of these parts with Selachians. "
So the greater part of the brain agrees with that of the Selachians, but where is the Vorderhirn ?
"In Messina Herr Miklucho found the opportunity for investigation of the brain of Chimaera, and writes as follows : ' In the first place, I learn that the representation of Valentin is quite correct in some minor points.
But the part which Valentin calls the olfactory tract, I ask myself, is not this the Hirnsfiele?
I extended the opening of the cranium, and, true enough, far forward lay the large and handsome hemispheres connected with the Zwischenhirn b}"^ elongated cerebral peduncles.'
" This Vorderhirn therefore corresponds to the part described by J. Miiller (2) as the swelling of the olfactory nerves lying behind the olfactory folds.
Since, moreover, there is a swelling which gives off olfactory nerves, there can be no doubt respecting the above-mentioned interpretation. "
The peculiarity of the Chimsera's brain consists, therefore, especially in the remarkable extension of the brain-stem, and the concomitant separation of the Vorderhirn from the Zwischenhirn.
In the same degree in which the Vorderhirn is moved forward, the olfactory tracts are abbreviated, so that the swellings of the olfactory nerves are in contact with the Vorderhirn itself.
"■ The brain of Chimaera therefore resembles that of Selachians much more closely than was supposed by J. Miiller, although the great similarity of the hinder regions was by no means unknown to him."
Gegenbaur does not mention the figures of Busch, which, like the copies of Maj-er and Owen, present all the features whose discovery he seems to ascribe to Miklucho.
On the other hand he credits Miiller with being acquainted with the existence of these parts.
As already stated, I cannot find, in Miiller's remarks, any evidence of such knowledge.
On the contrar3', he distinctly saj'S that "the lobi-optici and lobi-hemisphrerici are closely united."
Miklucho-Maclay, in 1868 and 1870, published two papers (7 and 10) upon the brains of fishes, but in neither do I find any reference to the brain of Chimaei-a.
The paper of Panceri and de Sanctis (9) is known to me only through a brief abstract in the Zoological Record for 1872, p. 86.
It does not appear to treat especially of the brains of the Holocephala.
Dumeril, who describes (21, I, 65-73, pi.
2) somewhat at length, though apparentlj' not from original investigations, the bi'ains of Plagiostomes, makes no reference to those of Holocephala; neither are they alluded to in the Manuals of Van der Iloeven or Rolleston.
In 1871, Huxley included the Holocephala among the Elasmobranchs, and left it to be inferred (13, 118) that their brains resemble those of sharks and skates.
More recently', in his paper (16) upon the brain, the skull, and the pectoral fins of Geratodus, Huxle}' makes some very suggestive remarks (pp.
30,41,45,57) concerning the taxonomic relations of Chimsera.
These will be referred to hereafter.
I do not see, however, that he anywhere implies that the brain differs essentially from the plagiostorae type, and in the summary (p. 41) of the characters upon which he is inclined to base the opinion that the Holocephala should be regarded as a primary subdivision of fishes, the brain is not even mentioned.^ In April, 1876, the following note was added while my paper on the brains of X.
A. Ganoids (17) was passing through the press: "Just as this goes to press I am enabled, through the kindness of Mr. Alex.
Agassiz, to expose and examine the brain of a wellpreserved male Chimaera in the Museum of Compai'ative Zoologj'.
The cerebellum is very large and covers the optic lobes, but is not folded transversely as in most, if not all, adult sharks and skates.
The crura thalami are very long and thin, and united ventrally b}^ a delicate membrane, apparently only pia mater.
Anteriorly each crus expands into a prothalamus, the dorsal border of which is thin and slightly everted.
This prothalamus, however, instead of forming the principal anterior mass as in Ganoids, is overlapped outside by a large and elongated hemisphere about 8 mm.
in height and 15 mm.
in length.
On the hinder third of the mesial surface is a large rounded foramen of Monro, 4 mm.
in diameter.
The lateral ventricle extends forward into the olfactory ' This paper was known to me only through a brief abstract in "Nature" for Jan. Gth, 1876, until Nov. 1876, when a cop}was kindly loaned to me by Prof. S. F. Baird.
lobe.
Into the foramen, and occnp_ying its entire area, projects a thickening of tiie outer wall of the hemisphere which may represent a primordial corpus striatum.
Just in front of the foramen the A'entral borders of the hemispheres are connected bj' a transverse commissure.
I greatly regret not having been able to examine this brain before presenting this paper.
It seems to furnish an actual form intermediate between the apparently distinct tj'pes represented b}' the brains of Selachians, Ganoids, and Dipnoans.
If I correctly interpret the api)earance of a partial subdivision of the elongated mass behind the olfactory lobe, the Chimjera's brain presents a more equal proportion of hemisphere and prothalamus than exists in Ganoids or Teleosts, where the former seems to be reduced to a rudiment hardl}' recognizable as such."
Remarks to the same effect were made before the Academy on the 4th of April, as already mentioned.
The brain itself, with most of the drawings here published, v^-as exhibited and remarked upon by me at the meeting of the American Association for Advancement of Science, Aug. 25th, 1876, in connection with a paper on the brains of certain fish-like vertebrates (24).
Prof. Huxley's comments (25) upon that paper referred mainly to the question of the homology of the optic lobes and cerebellum of Selachians, which will be more fully discussed hereafter.
The general aspect of the Brain of CniMiERA.
— The brain of the adult' Chimsera presents three regions of nearly equal length, viz., a complex high mass behind, a pair of elongated masses in front, and an intervening pair of slender bands.
The height and complexit}of the hinder mass remind one of the corresponding region with sharks and skates.
In general form, the anterior masses resemble the hemispheres of Dipnoans; but the slightness of their union by a transverse commissure is a characteristic of Ganoids and Teleosts; while the length of the crura, and the size and position of an orifice upon the mesial surface of each anterior mass are features not hitherto observed, so far as I know, in the brain of any other fish-like vertebrate.
In general, therefore, it may be said that the brain of CJiimsera ' From analogy we may infer that in very young examples the interval between the anterior and posterior regions is much less ; also that the lobes of the medulla are less folded, and the cerebellum smaller.
presents certain features peculiar to itself; it also combines features more or less characteristic of the brains of Ganoids and Plagiostomes.
The significance of these resemblances will be considered farther on.
The Typical Brain.
— Notwithstanding great differences in the relative size and complexity of the principal subdivisions, and in the number of the accessory parts, the brains of all Mammals, Birds, Reptiles, and Batrachians may be referred to a single type.
The reduction to this type may be made either by comparing man}'forms as intermediate stages of an ideal transition, or by tracing back the development of the brain of a single form to its earliest and simplest condition.
Among the remaining groups of fish-like vertebrates the 1ampre}"eels (Petromyzontidse) seem to possess brains closel}' resembling those of Batrachians.
The Myxinoid brain has not yet been satisfactorily homologized with that of Petromyzon, but may l)rove to be a degenerated form thereof.
As figured by Owen (20, and 6, I, fig.
186, p. 282), the brain of ProlopteruH seems to closely resemble that of the tailed Batrachians ; but Huxle}' (16, 30) finds in Ceratodus (which is regarded as a Dipnoan) a feature which is characteristic of the plagiostome brain, so that the matter is still in doubt.
The brains of Ganoids, and Teleosts, and Plagiostomes are not yet satisfactorily homologized with the typical brain ; the same is the case with the Ilolocephala (17).
Tlie typical brain comprises the following parts : Medulla and fourth ventricle ; Cerebellum with its ventricle ; Optic lobes with their ventricles ; Thalamic with the third ventricle^ the conarium above, and hypoijhy&is below ; Hemispheres^ containing the lateral (first and second) ventricles, which communicate with the third through tlie foramina of 3Ionro ; Olfactory lobes with their ventricles.
Thickenings of the lower or outer walls of the hemispheres constitute the corjiora striata ; and these are joined by the anterior commissure which is a specialization of the anterior boundary of the third ventricle, the lamina terminalis.
The tlialami ai*e united posteriorly by the posteridr commissure, and between their central portions may be formed the middle or soft commissu7-e. Tlie fornix seems to result from a thickening of the vertical fibres of the lamina terminalis in front of and 1877.]
229 above each foramen of Monro, and from the subsequent union of the two series of fibres across the median line.
The j^ons Varolii is a band of transverse fibres upon the ventral side of the medulla, connecting the lateral regions of the cerebellum.
The corpus callosum is a transverse commissure uniting the contiguous faces of the hemispheres.
Tlie corpus callosum and the pons Varolii seem to be confined to the mammals.
Diagrams (slightly altered from Huxley) representing the type of vertebrate brain.
S C, spinal cord ; 3/, medulla oblongata ; 4, fourth ventricle ; 0, optic lobes ; I, optic ventricle, or iter a tertio ad ventriculum quartum ; C Ce, crura cerebri ; 3, third ventricle ; Th, thalami ; Co, conarium ; On, optic nerve ; F M, foramen of Monro ; L V, lateral ventricle ; U, hemisphere ; Q S, corpus striatum ; 01, olfactory lobe ; Hy, hypophysis.
Figures and descriptions of the typical brain are given by Huxle}(13, 56-59); his figures were reproduced by me with slight modifications in a former paper (17, plate 3), and they are herewith presented again from a conviction that an understanding of it, and of the brains of Amphibia which most nearh' embody the type, is essential to the successful stud}^ of the many and coml)lex modifications which exist among the other vertebrates.
Enumeration of Parts.
— Accepting, provisionally, the type of vertebrate brain as figured and described by Huxley, it is desirable to ascertain how far its subdivisions are recognizable in the brain of Chimsera.
Respecting the following parts there can be no doubt : The spinal cord {S C), the optic nerves (o n), and chiasma (oc), and the olfactorj' lobes (01).^ But none of the intermediate regions have yet been determined satisfactorily as to their limits, and as to their correspondence with the subdivisions of the typical brain.
The cerebellum lies between the medulla behind, and the optic lobes in front.
If the cerebellum, therefore, can be determined the other two parts will naturally follow.
The existence of a cerebellum is doubtful in the Myxinoids, and among the other fislies it presents very great diversities of size, form, and complexity.
Thus in Petromyzon and the Dipnoans it is a narrow bridge ; in Lepidosteus it is an inflated vesicle ; in 3Iorrhua it is retroverted, in Pimelodus anteverted.
In skates, that which has been usuallj' regarded as the cerebellum is a somewhat elongated and flattened mass which is distinctly single and median, although it may present a longitudinal median furrow.
Witli man}sharks this part is deepl}^ furrowed transversely as in birds.
Prior to the year 1868, so far as I know, this region of the plagiostome brain was universally recognized as the cerebellum.
But Miklucho-Maclay (7 and 10) has proposed to call this the Mittelhirn (optic lobes), and to restrict the term cerebellum to a narrow band (figs.
2 and 8, c') between it and the medulla.
The reoion commonly called optic lobes he names Zwischenhirn (thaiami).
'^ Now there is certainl}' some ground for this view.
The transverse lamina of sharks and skates is api)areutly identical with • For obvious reasons the determiualions of Valentin are not here considered.
2 I feel constrained to protest against the introduction of the terms Vorder-hirn, Zwischen-hirn, Mittel hirn, Hinter-hirn, and Nach-hirn, and of their English equivalents fore-brain, etc.
If the conventional and universally understood terms medulla, cerebellum, etc., are to be discarded for descriptive names derived from one modern language, what is to prevent the anatomists of Spain, or Kussia, or any other country from employing other descriptive titles derived from their own languages?
Such substitutions Avould soon cause morphological science to revert to the chaotic condition in which descriptive zoology was found by Linnaeus.
The region designated by thalami has already received the following names : Zwischen-hirn, between-brain, inter-brain, dieucephalou, deutencephalon, lobus ventriculi tertii.
the visible cerebellum of Amphibia, Myzonts, and Dipnoans ; it seems to represent the simple and primordial form of the organ.
Nor is it easy to account for the sudden interpolation between it and the optic lobes of the greatly expanded or inflated mass commonly called cerebellum in other vertebrates.
But it is worth bearing in mind that, with some Ganoids, as Acipenser^ and Lepidodeus (Wilder, 17, 181, fig.
7), the anterior border of the apparentl}' simple cerebellum is continued forward into the cavity of the optic lobes.
Why then may we not imagine that an eversion of this fold has given rise to the inflated or convoluted mass of sharks and skates ?
This would give us two distinct portions of the cerebellum; the posterior lamina, and the anterior vesicle.
To Maclay's interpretation assent has been given by Gegenbaur (12, 549; 14, 524).
But neither of these anatomists has as yet published facts or arguments which warrant the abandonment of the older view, while several others have questioned the validity of their conclusions.
Amongst these are Jackson and Clarke (15, 77) ; Balfour (26, 560) ; Huxley (16, 31-25) ; and myself (17, 172, and 24).
In a letter to me.
Prof. Rolleston has also expressed his non-acceptance of Maclay's view.
In his pai)er on Ceratodus (16, 31) Prof. Huxle}^ sa^^s : " I cannot accept the views of Miklucho-Maclay, whose proposal to alter the nomenclature of the parts of the Elasinobranch's brain appears to me to be based upon a misapprehension of the facts of development."
My argument (24) against the view of Maclay was based upon the fact that in the brain of a large shark (Carcharias obscurus) the fibres of the optic tracts are distinctly traceable to the optic lobes and the thalami, and not at all to the cerebellum as should be the case if the cerebellum be reall}^ the optic lobes.
In commenting upon the i)aper just mentioned, Prof. Huxley (25) repeated the opinion expressed in the paper on Ceralodus, and called attention to the fact that wherever the fourth nerve (trochlearis or patheticus) has been identified among vertebrates, its apparent origin has invariably been between the optic lobes and the cerebellum.
Tins point seems to have been considered bj' J. Miiller,' and it is briefl}^ discussed by Maclay and Gegenbaur, ' Yergl.
neurologic dcr Myxinoidcn, 1838, p. 215. who, however, regard it as not constituting an insuperable objection.
There is one other consideration which appears to liave been overloolced hitherto.
Among the air-breathing vertebrates, from frog to man, the roof of the optic ventricle is complete, while that of the third ventricle is only partial.
Posteriorly the dorsal borders are united b}' the posterior commissure, but anteriorly the true nervous tissue is absent, and the ventricle is covered only by the lining membrane and the overlying pia mater.
According to the new interpretation, the thalarai of fishes lack the feature which characterizes them throughout the series of air-breathing vertebrates, and assume the peculiarities of the optic lobes.
Should Maclay and Gegenbaur insist upon the correctness of their interpretation, the matter will need to be treated in full hereafter; but as, for obvious reasons, the material for its elucidation must be derived from sharks and skates rather than from Ghimasra, I trust that in adhering in the present paper to the commonly accepted view I shall not be held to disregard the earnestness of Maclay, or the high authoritj^ of his distinguished teacher.
For reasons which will be presented farther on, I have designated the parts between the optic and the olfactory lobes as follows: the slender bands as the mesothalavius ; their posterior enlargements as the basifhalamus ; their anterior enlargements as the pi'othalami ; and the remainder of the elongated mass on each side which incloses a ventricle, as hemisphere.
The Spinal Cord (S C).
— For at least 3 cm.
behind the medulla the cord' is of uniform size and shape.
Its greatest transverse diameter is 4 mm., and its vertical diameter 3 mm.
As seen in the cross-section (fig.
22), its greatest width is ventrad of the centre, and the sides of the ventral median fissure (u) slope outward more gradually than those of the dorsal (c?).
The nerves have been separated from the cord, but along the dorsal lateral line (fig.
1, d /) is a series of slight elevations about 2 mm.
apart, which may indicate the points of origin of the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves; the ventral lateral line (fig.
4, y /) presents no such elevations.
The lateral tract (/ c) between the dorsal and ventral lateral lines is slightly elevated above the dorsal and ventral tracts {d c and v c), and, when first exposed, presented a darker color which disappeared in a few days. '
The remainder of the cord was not exposed.
Tlie structure of the cord, and the homologies of its parts \\-ith those of the human spinal cord, should be determined by microscopic sections of better preserved specimens.
The Medulla Oblongata.
— The medulla consists of two parts, the medulla pi'ope?'
ov continuation of the spinal cord, aud two pairs of lobes whicli may be provisionally called dorsal and lateral.
The medulla ma}be said to commence at a point about 4 mm.
behind the posterior end of the lobes, and about 3 mm.
behind the angle of the fourth ventricle.
At this point the cord begins to change its form and to increase in size.
The dorsal border preserves nearlytlie same direction as that of the cord itself, but the ventral border inclines ventrad, so that just behind the lobesthedorso-ventral diameter is 4 mm.
Ata point 4 mm.
farther forward the ventral border is 2 mm.
lower than the ventral border of the cord, and it remains at this level until suddenlydeflected ventrad beneath the cerebellum.
The width of the medulla also increases so as to be about 6 mm.
just behind the lobes.
In front of this point the width becomes about 8 mm., on account of the prominent lateral lobes.
The dorsal lateral line {d I) begins to be deflected downward at the point of transition from the cord to the medulla; but its deflection is more rapid than that of the ventral border; the dorsal tract {d c) not only increases in widtli, hut is slightl}' elevated above the lateral column.
The distinctness of the dorsal lateral line (d I) ceases just in front of the posterior end of the lateral lobe, but the elevated ventral margin of the lobe follows the same general direction.
The slight elevations which indicate this line upon the cord do not appear upon the medulla.
The ventral lateral line (o /) gradually disappears at about the middle of the length of the medulla, as seen in fig.
4 ; the ventral median furrow (v) ends rather abruptly just beliind the downward deflection of the ventral surface under the cerebellum ; it does not present the bifurcation which is figured by Valentin, 1, fig.
3, F. The dorsal fissure {d) widens into the fourth ventricle about 3 mm.
in front of the point wheie the enlargement of the medulla begins, and about 1 mm.
behind the superjacent dorsal lobes.
The posterior angle of the ventricle is covered by the ligula (fig.
3, I.)
The fourth ventricle is quite long, but, as seen in figs.
19-22, its cavity is nearly obliterated by the development of its various walls.
The hinder part of the floor presents three rounded tracts 16 upou each side.
Suggestions as to the homologies of these tracts are offered b}' Jackson and Clarke (15, 79), but I refrain from doing more than indicate their appearance and relative position.
Close to the median line is a rounded tract (m f), which is traceable anteriorly to the cerebellum ; it is about 0.7 mm.
in diameter.
Just outside of the posterior half of this is a depressed triangular surface, the exposed border of an intermediate tract {i t)Outside of this, and apparently the forward continuation of the posterior border of the fourth ventricle, is a tract (n t) of which the mesial border, projecting over the intermediate tract, presents a series of transverse furrows with intervening nodules, on account of which I have called it the nodular tract.
It is apparently what Owen (G, I, 273) calls the " vagal tract."
The whole extent of these parts can only be seen after raising the lateral lobe, which may be done without, apparently, causing a rupture of fibres, although the attachment is quite intimate.
It is then seen, as in fig.
19, that the four nodules are ganglia of origin of as mau}^ nerve roots, which, however, do not in this example project beyond the surface of the medulla.
As already stated, the lobes of the medulla are two pairs, lateral and dorsal.
(See figs.
1, 2, 3, 20, 21.)
These terms are here employed in a descriptive sense.
The lobes may perhaps be homologized with parts of the medulla of man and of other vertebrates, but the interpretations of Owen and Valentin do not wholly coincide, and I forbear adding to the synonymy until the structure and development of these lobes have been examined among the sharks and skates; Torpedo and its allies would probablybe very instructive.
The lateral lobe {I I) seems to be an enlarged continuation of the dorsal tract of the cord.
Its dorsal surface is in contact with the ventral border of the dorsal lobe.
The outer surface of the dorsal lobe is somewhat rough, and, as seen from the side or from the mesial surface, presents the form of an elongated triangle with its apex backward; seen from above the apex appears rounded.
The mesial surface is vertical, and closely applied against that of its lateral homologue.
As seen in fig.
20, the posterior portion of the dorsal lobe is wholly separate from tlie lateral lobe and the medulla; but a section farther forward, as in fig.
21, shows a line of union between its ventral margin and the mesial border of the lateral lobe.
Anteriorl}', both the doi'sal and the lateral lobes develop a series of folds (d in' and I'), which are continuous with each other, and through the transverse lamina (c') with the cerebellum.
These folds are so complex that a complete description would be very long and difficult to follow; it seems better, therefore, to wait until their type can be ascertained from a young brain, or from comparison of the parts with those of sharks and skates.
The Cerebellum (C and c').
— As with most Plagiostomes the cerebellum of Ghimsera consists of two quite distinct portions, an anterior and a posterior.
Tlie anterior is a prominent inflated mass (C), the posterior is a transverse lamina (c') which lies behind the other, and is onl}^ visible after dissection, as in figures 2 and 8.
This posterior cerebellum is what Maclay regards as representing the entire organ, the anterior inflated portion being, in bis opinion, the optic lobes.
"■ As alread}^ intimated (page 231), the lamina may prove to be the true homologue of the simple cerebellum of Amphibia, Dipnoa, and Mj-zonts.
Its position is well shown by Valentin (1, fig.
iv.
t), but his figure does not present one peculiarit}' : just upon the median line the thickness of the lamina becomes greatly' diminished, as shown in my figures 2 and 8.
The anterior cerebellum (C) is an inflated oval mass resting upon the medullary lobes behind and the optic lobes in front.
As seen from tlie side the short handle of tlie " hammer-formed body" is formed by upright crura (c), which join the base of the brain at nearly a right angle.
This portion of the base of the brain (c c) presents no peculiarities to distinguish it from the regions immediately in front and behind.
The exposed surfaces are rounded and smooth ; there is no sign of a transverse ventral commissure, ov i^onsVaroUi.
The ventral outline of the base of the brain changes its direction at this point, and, as seen in fig.
2, its vertical thickness diminishes rapidly as it extends forward beneath the optic lobes.
The crus or peduncle of the cerebellum (c) measures about 3 mm.
in antero-posterior width, and is 4.5 mm.
high.
Its hinder border is slightly overlapped by the anterior lamina of the lateral lobe.
In this alcoholic specimen tlie exposed surface of the peduncle readily detached itself as a lamina thickest in the centre and thinner at all the borders; the plane of separation is indicated by the line upon the section represented in fig.
8.
The surface exposed by the detachment of the lamina is irregular.
As shown in the horizontal section (fig.
8), and the median vertical section (fig.
2), tiie peduncle of the cerebellum consists of an anterior and a posterior vertical lamina, wiiich are in close apposition, and continuous by their outer borders.
The anterior lamina is 2 mm.
in thickness at its junction with the horizontal portion or cerebellum proper, but below becomes very thin, forming a sort of " valve of Vieussens," which is continuous with the hinder border of the optic lobes.
The posterior lamina is more complex.
On the middle line it is ver^^ thin ; the cut surface of this median thin portion is shown in fig.
2.
But on each side of the middle line it becomes suddenly very thick, as is best seen in fig.
8 {c p).
Posteriorly the lamina becomes continuous with the vertical lamina (c'), which Maclay regards as representing the entire cerebellum.
Upon the exposed surface the dorsal limit of the peduncle is indicated by a curved line with its concavity looking ventrad ; this also marks the line of separation of the superficial lamina already referred to.
Dorsad and in front of this is a second furrow which extends obliquely dorsad and backward from the ventral border of the cerebellum.
Excepting these, and the median furrow to be presently described, the exposed surfaces of the cerebellum and its peduncles are smooth.
The expanded portion of the cerebellum is 13.5 mm.
in length ; about 8 ram.
lie in front of the centre of the peduncle.
The anterior portion also has a slight downward inclination, so that, to employ Yalentin's comparison, the posterior portion is the striking part of the hammer, and the anterior is the claw.
The greatest width of the cerebellum (7.5 ram.)
is just over its peduncle; it tapers quite regularlj' to an obtuse point before and behind, giving the whole an oval outline.
Seen directly from above the posterior extremity is the sharper; but when the brain is tilted backward, as in fig.
5, the anterior extremity is more pointed.
The dorsal aspect of the cerebellum presents a median longitudinal furrow, 5.5 mm.
long.
Its centre lies over the centre of the peduncle.
In Yalentin's figure the furrow extends nearly the entire length of the cerebellum.
The ventricle of the cerebellum (c v) has the same general form as the organ itself, as shown in the median section (fig.
2), the transverse section (fig.
10), and the horizontal section (fig.
11).
The cerebellum of Chimeera presents some interesting features.
It is large and its walls are thick, 3'et its form is simple, while those of man}' sharks and skates, in the adult state, are much folded.
The median furrow occurs in some Plagiostomes, but is a rare feature of the cerebellum of other vertebrates.
The Optic Lobes (0).
— Reference has already been made (p. 230) to the view of Macla}^ and Gegenbaur respecting the nomenclature of these parts.
As is usually the case the form of the optic lobes is quite simple.
Their size is moderate, and when the brain is viewed from above they are wholly concealed b}'^ the overhanging anterior ^Dortion of the cerebellum, as shown in figs.
1 and 3.
In fig.
5 the parts are seen from above and in front so as to expose the optic lobes.
The difference between the outline of the lobes in figs.
5 and 6 is tlius accounted for.
The optic lobes are borne upon the crura cerebri (c c) alread}described as forming an obtuse angle with the medulla.
The outer surface of each cms presents a distinct rounded elevation or protuberance («), rather nearer the ventral than the dorsal border.
It is ^hown, somewhat exaggerated, by A^alentin (1, figs.
1 and 3), and called by him '■'■tuber cruris cerebri.
''^ Measured in the direction of their greatest length, nearljparallel with the crus, the optic lobes are 8 mm.
long; taken together, their greatest transverse diameter is 7 mm., which is reduced to 3.5 mm.
near their hinder and more rounded end, and to 2.5 mm.
near their front and compressed extremit}'.
The median furrow, which marks the division into two lateral lobes, extends their whole length.
The size and form of the ventricles and the thickness of ditferent parts of the walls are shown by the sections represented in figures 2, 8, and 9.
Tlie cavity is smaller than in the brains of many other fishes, but not, as with mammals, contracted into an " aqueduct of Sj'lvius."
As seen in fig.
9 the ventricle presents four well-marked regions : two median, the upper broad and the lower narrow; and two lateral, and compressed, one upon each side, extending upward and slightly outward into the elevations upon each side of the median furrow.
The lower compressed portion of the ventricle is wider behind and in front than at tlie middle; hence the sides may be not improperly called the lobes of the optic ventricle (figs.
2 and 9, o v I).
But these swellings are not necessarily to be regarded as homologous with the thickenings or involutions of the posterior walls in some Reptiles and Amphibia.
The parts already described constitute a series of median masses which may, without difficulty, be regarded as formed by the modification of a corresponding number of primary cerebral vesicles.
But it is not so easy to understand how the remaining portions of the Chimsera's brain have been developed from the single anterior vesicle which, with birds and mammals, has been found to give rise to all the parts in front of the optic lobes.
These parts are the thalamic the hemispheres^ and the olfactory lobes.
Could we trace the development of the Chimera's brain, or had we full acquaintance with the brains of all living PlagiOstomes, and of some apparently transitional fossil forms, it is probable that little difficulty would be experienced in assigning the proper limitations and names to these parts.
At present our determinations and nomenclature must be largel}' provisional.
Concerning one pair of lobes, however, there can be very little doubt, so that it may be well to commence with them.
The Olfactory Lobes (0 1).
— These parts, whatever their size or form, have always been identified among vertebrates by one or both of two criteria: their continuity, either direct or by crura, with the hemispheres behind ; and their connection, through the olfactory nerves, with the nasal cavities in front.
In Chimasra the nasal cavities receive numerous nerves from the anterior surface of the most anterior pair of lobes, which may therefore be called the olfaclory lobes.
Each lobe is a sub-quadrate mass, about 7 mm.
high, and 4 mm.
both in width and in its greatest antero-posterior dimension.
Its junction with the hemisphere is marked by a decided constriction, which becomes a cleft at the ventral border.
With this alcoholic specimen the lobe may be readily detached from the hemisphere in a plane which is, at first, a continuation of the cleft dorsad and forward, but becomes nearly vertical at about the middle of the height of the lobe.
The two facets thus exposed are slightly sunken below the border of the lobe.
At about the centre of the dorsal facet is a ver^' slight circular depression (fig.
16, o Z u) ; this coincides with the anterior extremitj'' of tlie lateral ventricle (figs.
12, 14, 18, I i'), and may therefore be regarded as a ver}'^ rudimentary olfactor}' ventricle.
Tiie mesial surface of the olfactory lobe is flat, and continuous "with that of tlie liemisphere.
The outer surface has less anteroposterior extent, because the anterior surface looks obliquel}'^ outward.
Tlie outer surface is rounded, there being a very decided depression between its most prominent portion and the most anterior elevation of the hemisphere.
The anterior surface is not only oblique, as above stated, but also divided into three distinct regions, as shown in figs.
12 and IT.
The dorsal and ventral regions are nearly circular, though the transverse diameters are slightly greater than tlie vertical, and covered by the filaments of the olfactor}"" nerves.
Betvveen them is a narrow, depressed area, which is devoid of these filaments.
The olfactory lobes are wholly distinct from each other.
The Hemispheres (H).
— The parts called hemispheres with man, birds, reptiles, and batrachians have the following features, constant and common to all: 1.
They are lateral masses.
2.
They contain each a lateral ventricle, which communicates posteriorly with the median third ventricle through a "foramen of Monro."
3.
They have no direct nerve prolongations, being connected onl}' with the thalami behind, and the olfactory lobes in front.
4.
The posterior extremities of their mesial walls are united by the anterior wall of the third ventricle — the lamina terminalis.
Of these four characters the first three ccrtainlj^ appl}to the anterior three-fourths of the elongated mass, which, with Chimaera, lies just behind each olfactory lobe ; but respecting the fourtii character some qualification may be required.
According to the second and fourth tests the posterior fourth of the mass cannot be regarded as a true hemisphere ; the same is the case with the whole of the second pair of lobes, with Ganoids and many Teleosts, which have been usually called hemispheres, but which contain no lateral ventricle, and have, therefore, no true mesial wall.
To these pseudo-hemispheres, I have given the name py^olhalami (IT, 1T9); and the same term may be applied to the posterior fourth of the elongated lobes of the Chimjera's brain.
Strictl}' speaking, the term prothalaraus should be applied to the region as a whole ; each lateral moiety would then be a hemiproOialamus.
But the shorter word may generall}' be used without the risk of misconception.
The length of each lobe is about 11 mm.
; its height is 6 mm., and its greatest thickness 4 mm.
I am unable to determine the precise boundary' line between the prothalamus and the true hemisphere.
The external surface is divided b}'' two transverse depressions into three elevated regions, of which the middle is the larger.
The hindermost elevation may be said to correspond with the prothalamus.
The mesial surface presents three features Avhich, so far as I know, have never been described — an aperture, an elevation, and a commissure.
The region occupied by these corresponds very nearly with the middle elevation upon the outer surface; see figs.
1, 2, 13, 14, and 15.
The commissure is designated as /^ upon figs.
13 and 14, but upon fig.
2 it is not marked at all.
It is a flat fibrous band connecting the mesial surfaces of the two hemispheres.
It was torn during the extraction of the brain, but appears to be about 3 mm.
wide at its middle, and nearly twice as wide at either end.
Its thickness is about 0.5 mm., the anterior and posterior borders being distinct and rounded.
Its plane is slightly oblique, the anterior margin of the attachment being near the middle of the height of the hemisphere, about 4 mm.
behind the olfactory suture, while the posterior margin is near the lower border.
It seems safe to conclude that this commissure represents a remnant of the primitive lamina terminalis, but I am not prepared to say that it corresponds to the anterior commissure of higher vertebrates.
It may be homologous with the commissure of the proiliabimns in Lepidosteus, figured b}^ me in 17, plate 2, but its relations to the foramen of Monro are not the same, as will now appear.
The foramen or aperture already referred to is the posterior termination of the lateral ventricle.
From the section shown in fig.
15 it is seen that near the anterior termination, at the olfactory lobe, the inner and outer walls are of nearly equal thickness.
But the cavit}' gradually approaches the mesial surface, and opens thereon about 7 mm.
from the olfactory suture.
Tliis orifice forms a semicircle; the extremities are one above the otlier, and 4 mm.
apart.
The margin is distinct and rounded, though tliin.
The commissure is Continuous with the ventral margin, but extends 2.5 mm.
in front of it, and about 1 mm.
beliind it.
The dorsal margin is continued bacliward and downward as a slight ridge upon the mesial surface of the protlialamus near the dorsal border.
There can be no doubt that this aperture corresponds to the foramen of Monro, or passage from the median to a lateral ventricle, but it is not easy to understand how the commissure, a part of the lamina terminalis, can extend so far in front of it.
Into the space which is nearl}circumscribed by the margins of the foramen and its posterior continuations there projects a smooth convex surface, which is designated as x on figs.
2, 13, and 15.
Its posterior border is semicircular, and a deep furrow separates it from the mesial surface of the prothalamus.
Anteriorljit is continuous with the outer wall of the lateral ventricle, as shown in fig.
15.
As suggested in a previous paper (17, 183, note 31), since this surface indicates a thickening of the outer wall of the ventricle, the thickening itself may be a primordial co7-pus striatum^ but I liesitate to emplo}' the term at present and would prefer to designate it as the corpus innominatum.
The Thalamencephalon (T).
— This is the general name for all the region between the hemispheres in front, and the optic lobes behind.
In most brains it is comparatively short, and presents no very characteristic features; but its extreme length forms the most obvious peculiarity of the Chimrera's brain.
With adult mammalia the region includes two irregular masses, tlie thalarai, between which is the third ventricle ; the conarium is above and the hypophysis below.
With Chwisera the thalami themselves form three distinct regions, posterior, middle, and anterior, which I have named basithalamus, mesothalamus, and p7'othalamus.
The jyrothalamus.
This region has alread}' been described in connection with the hemispheres with which the two prothalami are continuous.
There is reason for believing that this region exists in all vertebrate brains, and is very extensive in certain forms.
This idea will be again presented at the close of this paper.
I pass now to the intermediate region of the thalamencephalon.
The mesothalamus (c t).
In m}description of the brain of Lepidosfeus (17, 179) this region of the brain was called crura thalami; the new term is to be preferred.
The mesothalamus consists of two narrow bands about 16 mm.
long, and 2 mm, in vertical diameter ; their thickness is about 0.5 mm.
Their dorsal and ventral borders are slightly thicker than the intermediate portion, and are inclined slightly toward the middle line so that the inner surfaces are concave, the outer convex.
Tlie two bands may have been united by a thin ependyma, but so far as regards true nervous tissue they are separate in their entire length.
Their hinder extremities arise quite abruptly from the basithalamus.
Anteriorl}^, the mesial concavity becomes greater, but at the same time, the dorsal border presents a thinner edge which is turned outward.
Then each band becomes continuous with the corresponding prothalamus.
The basithalamus (b t).
Tliis name is given to the depressed and constricted part just in front of the optic lobes, of which it forms a kind of neck.
It may be said to be bounded by two imaginary lines, the one passing just in front of the optic lobes and the protuberance upon the underlying crus, the other passing from the most anterior border of the optic lobe in front of the chiasma.
The triangular outer surface thus bounded represents the optic tract, the expanded nerve passing upward and backward to the optic lobe of each side.
The basithalamus seems to correspond to the hinder part of the thalami with air-breathing vertebrates.
The cavity of the basithalamus is a slender rounded canal, the forward continuation of the optic ventricle.
Anteriorly this canal curves upward, and opens through the foramen of the thalamus (fig.
5), just above the chiasma.
This foramen is not rounded, but quadrangular, the angles projecting vertically and laterally.
From above the orifice is concealed by a pair of thin horizontal plates (figs.
1, 2, 5, tl) which are attached to the anterior border of the optic lobes, and united by the posterior fourths of their mesial borders.
This double cover is not represented by Valentin, and seems not to haA'e been noticed in the brains of other fishes ; but I have found it, under one form or another, in all ganoid, teleost, and plagiostome brains so far examined.
It seems to be the reduced representative of the posterior part of the roof of the third ventricle with Amphibia and Myzonts ; if so, we ■should name it posterior commissure.
The conarixim.
With Amphibia this part lies just above the foramen, closing it, in fact ; still it not infrequentlj" is removed with the roof of the brain cavit}' ; with most Phigiostomes it is in close contact with the roof, and tliis was probably the case witli Chimsera^ since tlie conarium of this example is wanting.
A depressed quadrangnlar space is left upon the median line between the contiguous margins of the optic lobes and the cover above described.
The hypoaria (Ji).
As seen in figures 1, 2, and 4, beneath the basithalamus is a rounded mass, consisting of a pair of oval lobes, with a triangular median surface between their hinder portions.
These are apparently the parts called by authors hypoaria^ or lohi inferiores ; they may correspond to the tuber cinereum of anthropotomy, but the homology of the parts of this region of the brain is not yet Avell determined.
Each lobe is about G mm.
long, and about 4 mm.
wide.
The}are hollow; their cavities communicate with each other, and, through a vertical passage, with the ventricle of the basithalamus.
On the median line the triangular space between the hinder portions of the lobes presents a fissure about 3 mm.
long, b}^ which the cavit}^ of the hj-poaria opens externall}'.
Below the corresponding fissure in the brains of Lepidosteiis and other fishes is a globular mass, apparently vascular, which may represent the h^'pophysis.
No sucli mass was found in this specimen, but it may have been lost through inadvertence.
As above intimated, the homology of these parts is not yet understood.
The optic nerves (o n) are about 1 mm.
in diameter, excepting just before their union to form the chiasma; here they increase in width, and then become constricted.
The dorsal borders of the enlargements are slightly overlapped by the mesothalami.
The optic chiasma (o c) is ver^compact; but I have not examined its structure.
Morphological Considerations.
— Whatever may be the peculiarities of the hinder regions of the brain of Chimsera, there appears to be a close homologj' between them and the hinder regions of the brains of most sharks and skates ; the latter, therefore, as more accessible, should be employed for the determination of the structure, and mode of development of the medulla, cerebellum, and optic lobes.
But the ordinary Plagiostome brain seems to throw no light upon the study of the remaining divisions of the chimicroid brain, and some features of the latter seem to be exaggerations of the characters of certain Ganoids, In the brain of Scymnus lichia, however, as figured b}' Ma3-er (5, taf.
1, fig.
7), tliere are indications of a transition between the plagiostome and chimaeroid typos, and I vould urge upon any anatomist who may have tlie opportunit}', the need of a careful examination of its brain.
Still more desirable is the discovery of very 3'oung examples of Chimsera.
I think that I begin to see, though still dimly and imperfectly, the method by which the close homology of the parts in front of the optic lobes can be demonstrated.
The first, and most essential, step in this demonstration seems to me to be the recognition of the distinctions between a hemisphere and a. prothalamus.
The former is a lateral mass containing a ventricle.
The latter is, stricll}' speaking, a median mass inclosing the anterior portion of the third ventricle, which opens laterally into the hemisphere ventricles through the foramina of Monro.
Its anterior boundary is the lamina terminalis.
In sharks and skates the prothalamus persists as the hinder part of the nearly solid mass in front of the optic lobes.
The true hemispheres project forward to a greater or less extent, as shown in a previous paper (27).
This median mass also persists in Ceratodus, although Prof. Huxley calls it lobus communis (16, 30).
With Chimsera the lamnia terminalis is reduced to a slight commissure, and the outer walls of the prothalamus, almost disconnected, become lateral solid masses, the hemiprolhalami.
The true hemispheres persist, with their lateral ventricles.
But with Ganoids and Teleosts the hemispheres seem to be rudimentary, and their name has been usuall}^ applied to the hemiprothalami.
The mesothalami may be more or less elongated in various genera.
With the air-breathing vertebrates the hemispheres are prominent, and the protlialamus correspondiugh' reduced.
But I think its ventricle can be recognized in all, especiall}' embr3'os, as the space bounded in front by the lamina terminalis, and opening laterally through the foramen of ]Monro.
A more extended consideration of this matter must be reserved for a separate paper.
Taxonomic Considerations.
— The views of Miiller, Valentin, and ]\[ayer respecting the affinities of the Ilolocephala are given in the historical sketch.
Gegenbaur (14, 408) makes the group of equal value with Teleosts, Ganoids, and Selachians [Plagiostomes].
Huxle}-, in speaking (16, 41) of Miiller's separation of the Holocephala, expresses himself as follows : — " It appears to me that he might have been justified in going still further; for, considering, in addition to the cranial characters, the structure of the vertebral column, and of the branchitTe, the presence of an opercular covering to the gills, the peculiar dentition, the almost undeveloped gastric division of the alimentary canal, the opening of the rectum quite separately from and in front of the uro-genital apertures, the relatively small and simple heart, the Chimteroids are far more definitely marked off from the Plagiostomes tlian the Teleostei are from the Ganoids."
I have only to add, upon the present occasion, that the conclusion which Prof. Huxley bases upon the consideration of other parts of the organization, seems to me fully confirmed by the structure of the brain of Chimsera^ as described in the foregoing pages ; the Holocephala seem to differ from the Plagiostomes more than the Ganoids differ from the Tcleosts, and should form a primary subdivision of the fish-like vertebrates, like the Amphibia, Dipnoi, Ganoidei, Teleostei, Plagiostomes, and Mj-zontes or Marsipobranchs.
(See, also, pages 227 and 228.)
List of Papers and Works referred to.
1.
Valoutiu.
Ueber das centrale Nervensystem unci die Nebenlierzen der Chimrera monstrosa.
Archiv fiir Anatomic, 1842 ; 25-45, Taf.
II.
2.
Mijller Johannes.
Remarks upon the foregoing paper of Valentin.
Bericht liber die Fortschritte der vergleicbenden Anatomieder Wirbeltheire in Jabre, 1842.
Archiv fiir Anat., 1843 ; CCLIII.
3.
Buscb.
De selacbioruni et ganoideorum encepbalo.
4to.
1848.
4.
Vulpian.
Leqoiis sur la pbysiologie generale et comparative du systeme nerveux.
8vo., pp.
20.
Paris, 18G1.
5.
Maj^er, F. J. C. Uber den Ban der Gebirns Fische in bcziebung auf eiue darauf gegriindete Eintlieilung dieser Tbicrklasse.
Mit sicbeu steiutafeln.
pp.
40.
Novorum Actorum * * * Naturae Curiosorum.
Tom.
Vicesimus Secundus.
1864.
6.
Owen, Richard.
Comparative anatomy and physiology of vertebrates.
3 volumes, 8vo.
; pp.
2155, 1471 figures.
London, 1861-68.
7.
Miklucho-Maclay.
Bcitrag zur vergleicbenden Anatomic dcs Gebirns ; pp.
19, 3 fig.
Jenaiscben Zeitscbrift fiir 3Iediciu und Naturwissenschaft.
1868.
8.
Miklucbo-Maclay, and Gegenbaur.
Ueber den Bau des Gebirns des Chimera monstrosa.
Jenaische zeitscbrift, 1869, V. heft 1.
[Abstract in Journal of Anat.
and Phys., 1869, iv.
163.
J 9.
Panceri and de Sanctis.
Sopra alcuni organ!
della Ceplialoptera.
Napoli, 1869, 4to.
10.
Mikluclio-Maclay.
Beitrage zur vergl.
Neurologie der Wirbelthiere.
L Das geliiru der Selachier, mit sechs Tafeln.
II.
Das mittelliirn der Ganoideu uud Teleostier, mit einer Tafeln.
4to.
Leipzig, 1870.
11.
Rolleston, George.
Forms of animal life ; being outlines of zoological classification based upon anatomical investigation and illustrated by descriptions of specimens and figures.
8vo.
pp.
436, 12 plates.
Oxford, 1870.
12.
Gegenbaur, Carl.
Ueber die cranialuerven des Hexanchus.
Jenaische zeitschrift, 1871, VI., 497.
13.
Huxley, T. H. Manual of the comparative anatomy of vertebrated animals.
16rao., pp.
431, 110 figures.
New York, 1872.
14.
Gegenbaur, Carl.
Grundriss der vergleichende Anatomic.
8vo., pp.
406, 320 figures.
Leipzig, 1874.
15.
Jackson, W. H., and Clarke, ^Y.
B.
The brain and cranial nerves of Echinorhinus spinosus, with notes on the other viscera.
Journal of Anat.
and Phys.
Oct. 1875 ; X.
75-197, pi.
VII.
16.
Huxley, T. H. Contributions to morphology.
Ichthyopsida.
— Xo.
1.
On Ceratodus Forsteri.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, Jan. 4, 1876.
17.
Wilder, Burt G. Notes on the American Ganoids, Amia, Lepidosteus, Acipenser, and Polyodou.
Proc.
Am.
Ass.
Adv.
Sci.
1875.
148-189.
3 plates.
18.
Stieda, Ludwig.
Untersuchungen iiber das Centralnervensystem der Knochenfische.
Siebold und Kolliker's Zeitschrift, 1867, XIII., 1 et seq.
19.
Giinther, Albert.
Catalogue of fislies in the British ^luseum.
8 volumes, 8vo., 1859-70.
20.
Owen, R. Description of Lepidosiren [Protopterus] annectens.
Linnsean Transactions, xviii.
327-361, 5 plates.
21.
Dumeril, Aug.
Historic naturelle des poissons ou ichthyologie generale.
Tome I. Elasmobranchcs [sharks, skates, and chimeroe'l, pp.
720, 14 plates.
1865.
Tome II.
(Ganoides, Dipnes, Lophobranches), pp.
625, 12 plates.
1870.
Paris, 8vo.
22.
Foster and Balfour.
The elements of embryology.
Part I. Histor)'of the Chick.
Crown 8vo., London, 1874.
23.
Miiller, Johannes.
Vergleicheude anatomic der Myxinoiden, und der Cyclostomen, mit durchbohrten Gaumen.
Abhandlungen der Konigl.
Akad.
der Wissenschafteu zu Berlin, 1834 (publ.
in 1836) ; 65-340, 9 plates.
24.
Wilder, B. G. On the brains of some fish-like Vertebrates.
Proc.
Am.
Ass.
Adv.
Sci., 1876; pp.
10, 1 plate.
25.
Huxlej', T. H. On the constancy of origin of the fourtli pair of nerves as an argument for the commonly accepted determination of the cerebellum and optic lobes of sharks and skates.
Unpublislied remarks upon the preceding paper, at the meeting of the Am.
Ass.
Adv.
Sci., at Butfalo, N. Y., Aug. 25, 1876.
26.
Balfour, P. M. The development of elasmobranch fishes.
Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, 1876 ; x., 377-411, plates x. and xvi ; 517-570, pi.
xxi.-xxvi.
; 072-683, pi.
xxix.
27.
Wilder, B. G. Xote on the development and liomologies of tlie anterior brain mass -svitli sharks and skates.
Am.
Journal of Science, Aug. 1876, xii., 103-105, 3 figures.
Explanation of Figures} Figures 1, 2, 4, and 15 are natural size.
The remainder are enlarged two diameters.
Fig.
1.
Brain of Chimsera monstrosa, %, from tlie left side.
Fig.
2.
The brain is cut vertically and longitudinally on tlie median line so as to show the mesial surface of the right half.
Fig.
3.
View of the hinder region, from above.
Fig.
4.
The same region from below.
Fig.
5.
The same region from above and in front, so as to show the optic lobes and the parts in front of them.
The cerebellum is foreshortened.
Fig.
6.
The optic lobes from above.
Fig.
7.
The anterior portion of the medulla, showing parts which are naturall}' covered b}' the crebellum.
Fig.
8.
Horizontal section of the optic lobes, the peduncles of the cerebellum, and the anterior portion of the medulla.
Fig.
9.
Transverse section of the optic lobes in the direction of a line drawn from the anterior extremity of the cerebellum to the posterior margin of the hj-poaria.
Fig.
10.
Vertical transverse section of the cerebellum between the anterior and posterior laminoe.
The corresponding portion of the medulla is not shown.
Fig.
11.
Horizontal section of the cerebellum, showing the interior from above.
Fig.
12.
Outer surface of the left anterior region, olfactory lobe (separated), hemisphere, prothalamus, and part of the mesothalamus.
Fig.
13.
The same (exclusive of the olf.
lobe) from above.
Fig.
14.
The same from belovv.
Fig.
15.
The same in horizontal section.
Fig.
IG.
Left olf.
lobe, showing the surface b}'' which it was attached to the hemisphere, and the slight depression which constitutes the olf.
ventricle.
Fig.
17.
The same, showing the anterior surface. '
The figures were drawn from nature, and on stone, by Miss G. D. Clements, a student in the Natural History course at Cornell University.
Fig.
18.
The anterior surface of the hemisphere corresponding to the surface shown in fig.
IC>.
Fig.
19.
The medulla after removal of the dorsal and lateral lobes so as to show the roots of the vagus.
Fig.
20.
Transverse section of the medulla near the hinder end of the lobes.
Fig.
22.
The same in front of the nerve roots.
Fig.
23.
Transverse section of the spinal cord.
(These three figures are mainly diagrammatic, proper microscopic sections not being available.)
Explanation of Signs.
The names of the principal divisions are indicated bj' capitals, as follows: — S C, spinal cord.
M, medulla oblongata.
C, cerebellum.
O, optic lobes.
T, thalamencephalon.
H, hemispheres.
O 1, olfactory lobesi The following are designations of the subdivisions arranged under their respective divisions.
The numbers indicate the figures in which the parts are shown.
S C, spinal cord.
V, (4, 20, 21, 22) v'entral (anterior) median fissure.
d, (3, 22) dorsal (posterior) median fissures.
V c, (4, 22) ventral columns.
d c, (1, 3, 22) dorsal column.
V ?, (4, 22) ventral lateral line.
dl, (1,3,22) dorsal lateral line indicated by a series of nerve roots.
I c, (1, 22) lateral columns.
M, medulla oblongata.
IV, (2, 3, 20, 21) fourth ventricle.
I, (2, 3) ligula.
no, (1) origins of nerves.
r, (1) restiform bodies, continuations of the posterior columns.
m /, (10, 20) median tracts seen in the fourth ventricle.
it, (19, 20) intermediate tracts.
nf, (19, 20) nodular tracts.
V r, (19, 20) roots of vagus nerve.
dm, (1, 2, 3, 20, 21) dorsal lobes of medulla.
dm', (1, 3, 5, 7) anterior convoluted portion of the same, II, (1, 20, 21) lateral lobes of medulla.
/ /', (1,3, 4,5, T, 8) anterior convoluted portion of the same.
C, cerebellum.
c, (1) cms or peduncle of the cerebellum.
df, (3, 5, 10) dorsal furrow.
c a, (2, 8, 11) anterior lamina.
c p, (2, 8, 11) posterior lamina.
if, (11) furrow on anterior surface of posterior lamina.
c', (2, 8) posterior cerebellum.
cv, (2, 8, 10, 11) ventricle of the cerebellum.
i, (2) communication between the fourth ventricle and the cerebellar ventricle.
O, optic lobes.
c c, (1, 2, 9) crura cerebri supporting optic lobes.
t, (1, 5, 9) protuberance upon the cms cerebri.
o V, (2, 8, 9) optic ventricle, median and larger portion.
ov', (9) median ventral portion.
o v", (9) lateral dorsal portions.
ovl, (2, 9) lobes of the optic ventricle.
ovp, (2) constricted communication of the optic with the cerebellar ventricle.
ova, (2) constricted communication with the third ventricle.
T, thalaraencephalon.
ht, (1, 2) basithalamus.
h, (1, 2, 4, 5) h3'poaria, or lobi inferiores.
h V, (2) ventricle of the hypoaria.
hf, (4) fissure of the hypoaria.
t c, (2) canal continuing forward from the optic ventricle ; really part of the third ventricle.
tf, (5) foramen of the thalamus.
tl, (1, 2, 5) double cover over the foramen.
c, (2, 4) optic chiasma.
on, (1, 2, 4) optic nerves.
U ct, (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, 14) mesotlialamus.
pt, (1, 2, 12) prothalamus.
H, hemisphere.
/7?i, (2, 13, 15) foramen of ]\Ionro, I u, (14, 15, 18) lateral ventricles.
X, (2, 13, 15) rounded thickening of outer wall of ventricles.
Z ?, commissure of the hemisphere (lamina terminalis).
01, (1, 2, 12, 16, 17) olfactory lobes.
Is, (2) suture between hemisphei'es and olfactory lobes.
I u, (16) rudimentary olf.
ventricle.
o / n, (17) two groups of olf.
nerves.
BY THEO.
D. RAND.
In pursuit of the study of Mineralogy I have become somewhat acquainted with the rock formations near Philadelphia, and have thought some of the observations of sufficient interest for publication, that others, possessing more knowledge, may apply them towards a solution of the geology of the region.
Specimens of many of the rocks to which I refer will be found in the collection recentl}' given to the Academj-.
I have endeavored to trace the rocks along their outcrop, and will consider them in their order at the Schu3'kill, beginning at Graj^'s Ferry.
From that point to Girard Avenue Bridge, Mica Schists with beds of gneiss occur — the gneiss including granitic veins and the following minerals: Muscovite, Orthoclase, Albite, Tourmaline, Garnet, Beryl, Lime Uranite, Copper Uranite, and Sulphide of Bismuth (Bismuthinite).
This is most fully developed at Fairmount.
There is a striking resemblance between these rocks and those of the vicinity of Chester, Delaware Co., in which all the above minerals occur, except the Bismuthinite.
Carbonate of Bismuth, Bismutite, however, does occur.
On the west bank of the river above Girard Avenue is a mass of coarse granite, in which the characteristic minerals are Muscovite and Biotite intercrystallized.
A similar granitic rock appears at several points along the ridge west of the creek known as Mill Creek, in the vicinity of 44tli Street, West Philadelphia, and particularly at a point on the Baltimore turnpike in the same vicinity, as observed by Prof. Koenig and Mr. H. C. Lewis.
Above the Columbia Bridge there is a peculiar gneiss of a reddisli color, and near b}'^ efflorescences of Halotrichite.
More abundant is a hornblendic gneiss at South Laurel Hill.
This belt appears to cross Belmont Avenue above George's Hill, and the Penna.
R.R., about half wa}' between 52d Street and Overbrook.
A deep cutting exposes the rock, which there abounds in Pyrites, and which in part is very compact.
Much of this rock completely decomposes within two or three years after exposure.
At the Falls, a belt of very hard porphyritic gneiss crosses the river, forming the N. W. flank of Laurel Hill, and the S. E. bank of the river, and seems to have caused the abrupt bend at this point.
This belt is very narrow at the Schuylkill, only from one hundred to two hundred feet in width, but it widens as it goes southwestward.
The lower edge is crossed by the Pennsylvania Railroad less than a quarter of a mile from the rocks last described, the upper at Elm Station, six miles from tlie city — a distance along the railroad of nearly two miles, but across the strike probabh' about one and a quarter.
This rock is so hard that its outcrop can be almost continuously traced.
At Flat Rock Tunnel, on the Schuylkill, seven miles above Fairmount, a bed of hard mica schists and gneiss crosses the river — this is probably the continuation of the beds so largely wrought for building stone at Frankford, and crossing Wayne Street, Germantown, near the railroad, and the Wissahickon at McKinne3''s quarry, there causing the abrupt bend in the stream.
The minerals of this belt are particularlj^ zeolites, chiefly Stilbite, also Muscovite, Biotite, Orthoclase, Albite, Sphene, Calcite, Apatite, Epidote, Copper Fju-ites, Chrysocolla, etc., and Molybdenite.
The quarries at Frankford having been most extensive, all these minerals have been found there, nearlv all of them at McKinne^'^'s, and onh' the Zeolites, Calcite, Muscovite, Orthoclase, and Albite at the Tunnel.
The identity of the rock to McKinney's is, I think, unquestionable, and the continuation at the Tunnel probable.
About two miles above, passing mica schists, sometimes filled with garnets, we reach the well-known Soapstone belt, which extends in a straight line, most clearlj' marked, from a point on the west flank of Chestnut Hill, about S. 54° W. This belt was supposed to dip under, near Merion Square, at the " Black Rocks," but Prof. Booth called my attention to its appearance at Rosemont Station, Penna.
R.R., ten miles from Philadelphia.
Its characteristic rock is the so-called bastard soapstone, a paste of Steatite, filled with irregular masses, and occasionally crj'stals, of Serpentine, probably, as I have heretofore shown, pseudomorphic after Staurolite.
This same rock, with the c^'stals well defined, I have ol)served on the road from Philadelphia to West Chester, ten and a half miles from Philadelphia, the belt in which More Phillips' Chrome mine has been opened.
West of this, at the Schuylkill, and apparentl}^ on the S. W. bahk only, is a bed of slaty serpentine, very dark olive-green, and sometimes almost black in color, associated with a mineral resembling Schiller Spar, and also an almost unaltered hornhlendic mineral, apparently Enstatite.
This belt is narrow, but ver^well defined, with frequent outcrops.
It cuts diagonally', but at a very small angle, the rocks next described, and continues in a course W. 5° X., on their north flank, and is almost without doubt continuous with the well-known belt just north of West Chester.
Its outcrop is frequently marked by cellular quartz with cavities lined with crystals, and stained by oxide of iron.
At one point, one-quarter mile S. W. of Radnor Station, Penna.
R.R., twelve miles from Philadelphia, at the side of an old quarr3', the mode of formation of this rock from the Serpentine is shown in a remarkable manner.
At the bottom, the serpentine is almost unaltered, above, cracks are seen extending through it in various directions, but usually one series nearly parallel and more or less at right angles to another, higher still ; these cracks are seen to contain films of quartz, whicli become thicker and thicker, while the inclosed serpentine is softer and more rusty in color, until, near the top, the cells have thick walls, and contain only a small amount of what appears to be oxide of iron, and in part are empty.
Well waters in the vicinit}' contain magnesia and iron, and sulphuric and silicic acids.
At Spring Mills, a bed of gneiss and granite, or granitoid gneiss crosses the Schuylkill.
These are very hard rocks, and form the highest summits of the table-land, of which they form the N.W.
boundary.
The stratification is nearly vertical, and the characteristic mineral is a bluish quartz, wliich weathering out of the rock is ever3'where visible in the roads.
Taking this as a criterion, these rocks extend from above Van Arsdalen's quarry, in Bucks Co., at least to Darby Creek.
The gneiss is often hornblendic, sometimes porphyritic, and generally composed of thin layers of alternately light and dark material.
It seems entirely destitute of granitic veins or of crj'stalline minerals, except those composing the mass of the rock quartz feldspar — probably both orthoclase, and a triclinic feldspar, hornblende and mica.
At the Schujdkill, immediatel}' nortliwest of this, is a small limestone valley, and then the continuation of the Edge Hill rocks.
On the northeast side of this valley stretches a narrow djke of trap almost continuously exposed for many miles, crossing the Scliuylkill at Conshohocken, and the Penna.
R.R.
and the Lancaster turnpike at Wayne, thirteen miles from Philadelphia: there is also an exposure of trap in a cutting of the Pennsj-Ivania R.R, through the granitic belt northeast of Radnor Station.
This is not in line with any other trap dyke of which I have knowledge.
The Edge Hill rocks form a ridge at the Schuylkill not over a quarter of a mile in width, but rapidly widening, until between Radnor Station and the King of Prussia they are over a mile and a half wide.
They are composed of talc-like schists, but are probably hydro-mica schists, in nearly vertical strata, with beds of quartz with cavities which appear to have contained pyrites, much resembling the auriferous quartz of the Eastern United States.
This ridge or table-land, wiiich is quite steep in its slopes, forms the southeast boundary of the Chester Valley.
A remarkable feature of the part of Montgomery Co. and Chester Co. bordering on the Schuylkill is the direction taken by the streams.
The general features are high hills extending in a N.E, and S.W.
direction with deep limestone valleys between, nearly at right angles to the general course of the Schuylkill.
The streams, however, do not follow the valleys.
The Wissahickon leaves the Montgomery Co. valley and flows eastwardly through a deep narrow gorge through very hard rocks a distance of over five miles.
The Valley Creek flows down the Chester Valley and tlien turns abruptly westwardly and flows through the N.W.
boundary hill.
The Gulf Creek flow^s down the valley two or three miles, then turns westwardlyand flows through a deep and narrow gorge into another vallej' on the west, with banks rising abruptly two or three hundred feet.
NOTES DESCRIPTIVE OF A STONE MOUND AND ITS CONTENTS.
BY JOHN FORD.
A few 3-ears ago Mr. E. P. Ford, of Piasa, 111., a careful student of American arcbaeolog}', and a valued friend and relative of the writer, became the owner of a tract of timber land bordering on Coup's Creek, a small stream that forms the northern boundarj' of Brown's Prairie, Macoupin Count}-, 111.
A group of eight burial mounds lying within the borders of this ground had remained undisturbed prior to its purchase bj' Mr. Ford.
These were located upon the crest of a ridge which rose some fifty feet or more above the creek level, and about one hundred yards from its northern bank.
They were ranged in a line nearlj'^ parallel with the stream, the diameter of each being about thirty feet, and the distance between their respective bases upwards of fifty.
When discovered by Mr. Ford, all but one, the fourtli, numbering from east to west, were comparatively hidden bja heavy growth of timber and brushwood.
The absence of vegetation upon the exceptional one suggested the probability of its being what is locally termed a stone mound, and the work of opening it was immediately begun.
About eighteen inches below the surface, and near the centre of the mound, a stone slab was struck, and subsequently two others.
These being cleared and lifted, revealed a grave or vault which measured twelve feet in length by four and one-half feet in widtli, with sufficient depth to permit a man to sit upright.
It was constructed of stone plates or slabs throughout, a few of them being quite large, and squared on the edges.
The covering was composed of the three largest, while the next in size formed the vertical walls, which were braced upon the outside by others set firmhagainst them at an angle of fortj'-five degrees.
The floor, which had been sunken somewhat below the original surface, contained a few small slabs, but was more especially composed of a sort of rubble-work.
This was only foui' or five inches in thickness, but very hard and as dry as powder.
From some cause, whether by the action of friends of the dead, b}' worms, or the percolation of water, it appeared impossible to explain, the entire space between the walls of the grave, not occupied b}' bones, was packed with a peculiar, granulated, but exceedingly tenacious earth.
Owing to the dense character of this earth but little progress was made at the time, beyond ascertaining that a grown person had been placed in a sitting posture in each corner of tlie grave, all facing eastward ; while between them the bones of perhaps twenty others were mingled together indiscriminately.
Nearly all of the latter had been broken previous to interment, and it was particularly noticeable that the left sides of the skulls accompanying them had in every instance been crushed by a blow from some Jjlunt weapon, while the remaining portions had been left in perfect condition.
Carefully replacing the covering slabs, and leaving the contents of this grave for future examination, a search was made on the slope of the mound for others.
Two smaller ones were soon discovered, each built of the same kind of material and in the same manner as the central one.
The smaller of these, measured between the walls, was three feet long by eighteen inches wide, and was, doubtless, the grave of a child, the white lines made by the bones being easily defined in the dark surrounding earth.
A portion of this grave, and nearly the whole of the largest one, was subsequently (in October, 1875) excavated and examined by Mr. Ford and myself, and we had every reason to believe that these, together with the third one in which the skull and shells accompanying this paper were found, had been constructed at the same period of time and by the same people.
The scene presented upon opening the third grave was somewhat novel if not startling in character.
Four skeletons sat within it, two and two ; their arms crossed, the knees of one pair pressing sharply against the backs of the other, and the faces of all (like those in the central grave) turned directl}^ toward the east.
The enveloping earth was not so dense, or the quantity so large in proportion, as in the other graves; so that most of the upper parts of the skeletons were exposed upon lifting the covering slab.
At first it was supposed that the skulls of all could be safely removed ; but though the greatest care was taken in the operation, only one specimen, which has been presented to the Academ3', was secured in a comparatively perfect condition.
Although this grave measured but six feet in length by three in width, there was little doubt among the party that it contained relics other than those of a human character.
A careful search revealed nothing, however, except four large marine shells, the Busycon perversum^ of Linnaeus.
The position of each of these in relation to the bodies was the same.
The canal or smaller end of one had been placed in tiie right hand of each individual, while tlie larger portion rested in the hollow above the left liip.
But more remarkable than this was the fact that within each of the shells there had been packed what appeared to be the bones of a child ; the skull, which evidently had been crushed before burial, protruding beyond the aperture.
Of course, any hypothesis regarding the purpose of this peculiar rite must necessaril}' be of a conjectural character; nevertheless, it was difficult to resist the conclusion that these infants were sacrificial offerings to the spirits of the dead whom the living desired to honor.
i^Toue of the mounds comprising the series under consideration exceeded three feet in height, though several others opened in the vicinity, and in the adjoining county of Jerse}-, during my visit, rose from five to ten feet above the surrounding level.
Nothing was found in them, however, save some broken pottery and a few deca3ing bones.
After much search, the bluff" or quarry from which the slabs had been s^Dlit was discovered by Mr. Ford, about three-fourths of a mile west of the mounds.
The rock is quite hard, somewhat fossiiiferous, and probably belongs to the upper carbonifex'ous series.
Whatever may be the facts regarding the origin, degree of civilization, etc., of the mound-building race, it is highly probable that they were a people of fixed habits, possessing decided constructive ability, and subject alike to order and system in their dailjavocations.
Evidences of an undoubted character go to show that they were careful cultivators of the soil, and it is no uncommon l)elief among the thinking men of the Southwestern States that the small prairies so numerous in that section owe their present tillable condition, if not their origin, to the indefatigable labors of this "eminently agricultural people.'"
These prairies are skirted almost invariably by beds of streams and belts of growing timber, and it was chiefly upon the bottom ' Albert Gallatin.
lands adjoining the one and the ridges inclosed by the other that the mounds were constructed.
As a rule, those nearest the water level in the region examined bj' us were mere foundations for dwellings, while those for burial and defensive purposes appear to have been built exclusivelj^ upon the ridges.
It was also noticed that the burial mounds occupied a position upon the nearest ridge directlj^ northeast of the village proper, while those for defensive purposes were located principally upon the most favorable points northwest of the same.
Mr. Ford informed me that he had observed this peculiar disposition of the mounds at manj^ other points besides those we hac visited together, and that, so far as he had been able to ascertain, the same systematic arrangement prevailed along the whole of an irregular line (that may have been an ancient highway), exteniing from the foot of Lake Michigan to the mouth of the Illinois River, a distance of about two hundred and fifty miles.
The great antiquity of the mounds is indicated by the condition of their contents.
Though vast numbers of them have been opened, the relics found therein have been much the same ; a handful of bones or a skeleton that crumbled at the touch, with here and there an ornament or weapon, some broken pottery, or a solitary marine shell.
Rarely, indeed, has a skeleton been discovered in a condition suitable for intelligent examination, while, until very recently', but one perfect skull belonging incontestably to the mound-building race, has been secured, and that one was taken from a mound in the Scioto Vallej', near Chillicothe, Ohio.^ ' Squier and Davis, vide Baldwin's A.
A., page 48.
June 5.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirt3"-two members present.
A paper entitled "Additional Xotes on Bassaricyon Gabbii," b}' Joel Asaph Allen, was presented for pnblication.
June 12.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-four members present.
The deaths of Amable J. Brazier, member, and Philip P. Carpenter, correspondent, were announced.
Remarks on some Parasitic Infusoria.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that most of the known parasitic infusoria possessed a mouth, as in those which lived free in the waters.
Such is the case with the species of Balantidium found in the intestinal canal of man, the hog, and various batrachians ; of Nyctotherus^ found in the intestine of frogs, several insects and myriapods ; and the Gonchophfhirns anodontae, often found abundantly on the branchiae and palpi of our Anodon fluviatilis.
Other parasitic infusoria are not only devoid of an intestinal canal as characteristic of their class, but have no mouth, and, like the ta])eworras and Echinorhynchi, absorb nourishment through the exterior surface of the \)Oi\x.
Such is the case with the genus Anoplophrya of Stein, typified by the Anoplophrya lumbrici, found in the intestine of our common earthworms, as well as in those of Europe.
Prof. Leidy had also detected the same species in the little wood-worm, Enchytraeus socialis, and had found two other species, formerl}^ described by him under the names of Leucophrys clavala and Leucophrys cochlear if or mis, in the intestine of Lumhriculus limosiis and L. tenuis.
Recently in dissecting the fresh-water snail, Paludina decisa, while examining the branchiae he observed several individuals of an Anoplophrya moving actively, as if in antagonism with the ciliary motion of the branchial plates.
Seeking the source of the little creatures he found that they came from the rectum of the Fnludina.
In examining other individuals of this snail he observed that some were free, others were infested with few, and souie with multitudes of the infusorian.
In several instances the Anojilophryas were so abundant as to resemble in their crowded conditiou a mass of writhing worms, actually distending the portion of the intestine the^^ occupied.
The species appears to be an iindescribed one, and is interesting from its comparative!}'
large size.
It was named and described as follows : — Anoplophrya vermicularis Body cylindrical, slightly tapering posteriori}', rounded at the extremities, or subacute behind ; flattened at the anterior extremity ; translucent white, finelj' striated longitudinall}', uniformly clothed with short cilia ; internall}' finely granular, with a longitudinal cylindrical nucleus occupying nearly the length of the axis, and with from twenty to thirty contractile vesicles, mostl}' arranged in one, but often in two longitudinal series.
Lengtli from two-fifths to one-half a millimetre ; breadth in front .044 to .048 mm., behind .032 to .04 mm.
Besides the movements of progression induced by the cilia, the animal wriggles in a sigmoid manner and even doubles on itself.
The contractile vesicles may contract more or less successively to mere points, but apparently at no time entirely disappear, and they may enlarge to double their usual size.
The axial nucleus is at first barely perceptible, but becomes very obvious as the animal approaches dissolution.
Incidentally Prof. Leidy also stated that AKjndogaster conchicola, so common in the pericardium of Anodonta and Unio, he had also found in one instance in the oviduct of Paludina decisa.
June 19.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Nineteen members present.
Remarks on the Seventeen-year Locust, the Hessian Fly, and a Chelifer.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that he had returned last evening from a short visit to Easton.
lie stated that the Seventeenyear Locust, Cicada septendecim, had made its appearance in the vicinit}' of that town.
He further stated that the wheat in the same locality was seriouslj^ affected by tiie Hessian FI3', Cecidomyia deslructor, which has now passed into the pupariiim stage.
In one field examined half the crop was destroyed b}' the insect.
He further remarked that his little daughter brought to him an Elater, Alaus ocidatus, and, on her account professing to attach some interest to a common insect, in examining it with more than usual attention, he was surprised to find concealed beneath the elytra six Chelifers.
He was not aware whetlier the Elater was commonly infested in this manner.
In another specimen subsequently found, there were no Chelifers.
The J3ook-scorpion, C. mnseorutn, appears not to be common with us, as he rarel}' met with it.
He had occasionally met with another species, perhaps C. cancroides^ attached to the House-fly.
The Chelifer of the Elater is different from eitlier of those just named, and is perhaps an nndescribed species.
Its characters are as follows: — Chelifer alius — Bod}"^ in general chestnut-brown ; the pedipalps and the dorsal shield of the cephalothorax being darkest ; the abdomen lightest, and in the largest individuals, probably females, whitish with transverse dorsal and ventral bands of brown.
Body with the sides nearly parallel, but widening slightl\' posteriori}' ; being widest near the termination of the abdomen, except in the largest female, in which it is widest near the middle of the abdomen.
Maxillary palps shorter, or not longer than the body; intermediate joints of the same about twice the length of their thickness.
Length of bod^' from 1^ to '2\ mm.
; length of pedipalps from H to \^^ mm.
All parts are hairy, but the abdomen of the largest ones is less so than in the others.
The species bears much resemblance in form and color to the C. Beussii, Koch.
It also resembles the G. americanus^ De Geer, but does not possess the knob on the penultimate joint of the pedipalp.
June 26.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Nineteen members present.
The Birth of a Rhizopod.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that while it was a matter of common observation that the naked Ilhizopods, like Amoeba^ and Actinophrys^ multiply by division, the manner in which the test-beariug forms were produced was not so obvious.
Many instances are recorded in which observers, beginning with Le Clerc, who first described a Difflugia^ have noticed pairs of individuals attaciied b}^ the mouths of their tests.
In these instances the animals have generall}' been supposed to be in copulation, or conjugation as it is commonly called, and perhaps such is often the case.
It has also been repeatedly noticed in many cases that of the two individuals in conjugation one was somewhat smaller and more delicate, and if it were a colored species, it was paler than the other.
Little significance usually has been given to this difference.
Claparede and Lachman (Etudes sur les Infusoires, 1859, 445) have viewed such cases of the supposed conjugation of Arcella, as simpl\' the formation of a new test to accommodate the contents of an old one which had become too small.
Biitschli (Archiv f. Mikr.
Anat.
18T5, 459), after observing the suj)posed conjugation of Arcella^ noticed within the test free moving Amoebee.
These he supposed were the brood of the former, but after having seen them escape from the test, he failed to trace their further course.
Cienkowski recentl}^ (Archiv f. Mikr.
Anat.
187fi, 41) described the mode of multiplication of ChlamydopJwi/s stercorea^ in which he observed the animal to protrude from its test a mass of sarcode, which, assuming the size, form, and structure of the parent, became detached from it as an independent individual.
He remarks that this procedure for Rhizopods is not new, and has been indicated b}' Cohn and others, in ArceUae, as copulation.
Prof. Leid}' continued: I have repeatedly observed difierent species of Difflugia, Hyrdosphenia^ Nebela^ Eugb/pha, Trinema^ Cyphoderia, Arcella^ etc., in what has been supposed to be the condition of conjuoation, and have often watched them carefully to learn the results of the process.
I have noticed that one individual engaged in the process is often smaller and paler than the other, but frequently also the two were alike in all respects.
Between the attached .individuals I have observed a fusion of the contents, sometimes a rapid transference of the contents from one to the other test and back again, and at others a sort of circulation or flowing of the contents in a circle from one to the other test.
After se])arntion of the tests usually nothing further was observed.
In one instance I saw two small Ditflugians conjoined with the mouth of a larger, all of the same form ; and in another instance I saw three small individuals of Diffiugia spiralis in the same manner conjoined with one large one of the same species.
I have long sought for the mode of multiplication of the testcovered Rhizopods, but thus far with little success.
It appears as if the diflferent forms with which we meet are always mature, and rarely are individuals seen with the ordinary' characters which distinguish young from adult animals.
Recently I observed a pair of conjoined individuals of Euglypha alveolafa, which in their procedure appeared to coincide with the mode of multiplication of Chlamydophrys stercorea,, as described by Cienkowski.
One of the EugJyphce was one-seventh of a millimetre long (0.14 mm.
long.
; 0.068 mm.
in the short diameter), and had four long spines diverging from the fundus of the test.
This was replete with the contents, including the usual large nucleus ; and it presented no perceptible interval between the mass of sarcode and the interior surface of the test.
The sarcode was mingled throughout with particles of food, and also included a large Naoiculn.
The food was not collected in balls contained in vacuoles, but was diffused through the sarcode, from the mouth to the fundus of the test, imparting to it a brownish hue.
The globular nucleus measured ^^Ih of a millimetre.
Closely adherent to the mouth of the larger or parent EugJypha was the smaller or younger one, little more than half the size of the parent (measuring 0.08 mm.
long, and O.OG mm.
wide).
The young EugJypha had the fundus somewhat abruptly narrowed and acute, and had projecting from it the same number of spines as in the parent test.
The peculiar structure of the test was apparent, but appeared less extended Qr unfolded.
The contents filled the test, and consisted of clear, colorless, finely' granular protoplasm without any mixture of food and without a nucleus.
Such was the appearance of the conjoined Eugh/pJise, parent and offspring, at the commencement of the observation, at 65 o'clock in the morning.
Closely watching the pair, the 3'Oung Euglypha was noticed slowly to enlarge, and the brownish matter of the parent sarcode gently flowed into and became graduall,y diffused with the previously clear, colorless sarcode of the child.
The fundus of the latter expanded and became obtusely rounded, like that of the parent.
The large nucleus of this disappeared, or became so comi)letely obscured as not to be visible.
For some time there was no further very perceptible change within either test.
An hour from the commencement of the observation the 3^oung Euglypha had nearly acquired the size, shape, and appearance of the parent, and it measured 0.112 mm.
long, and 0.064 ram.
broad.
Now commenced an active circulation, a cyclosis, of the contents of the two tests, resulting in a thorough admixture.
The sarcode flowed continuously from the parent on one side through the mouths into the child and back again on the other side.
Both tests were replete with one continuous mass of brown, granular sarcode, without nucleus or contractile vesicles, but with the Navicula, which remained within the parent.
During the circulation of the sarcode, two of the spines, with the circular scale at their base, became detached from the young Euglyplia.
The circulation ceased.
At 7^ o'clock I first observed the appearance of a contractile vesicle, 0.016 mm.
in diameter, at the fundus of both animals.
The vesicle collapsed and reappeared in two, three, or four, each again successively collapsing.
With the appearance of the contractile vesicles the contiguous sarcode began to clear up, the brownish matter accumulating iu advance of the usual position of the nucleus when present.
At this time the young Euglypha measured 0.116 mm.
long, and 0.064 mm.
broad.
The sarcode of the parent now contracted at the middle, leaving a space between it and the test.
The same change occurred in the child.
The sarcode of the parent next cleared up in the vicinity of the mouth, then separated from that of the oftspring, and retracted a short distance within the mouth.
At 5 minutes to 8 o'clock the two Euglyphse bent slightlj'^ from side to side, protruded delicate pseudopods, and in two minutes afterwards were completely' separated with their mouths directed downward, and their fundi turned towards my e^'e.
Half an hour after separation, a pale nucleus had made its appearance in both individuals occupjdng the usual position, and measuring 0.028 mm.
in diameter.
Two or more contractile vesicles disappeared and reappeared around the position of the nucleus.
While the parent retained the original size, the young Eughjxjha was 0.12 mm.
long, b}' 0.064 mm.
broad.
From this observation of the mode of multiplication of EuglyX)ha, coupled with that of Cienkowski on the multiplication of Chlamydophrys, it may be inferred that all the test-bearing Rhizopods multiply in a similar manner.
The well-fed and replete Rhizopod rapidly protrudes from its test half its sarcode, which assumes the form and constitution of the parent and then separates from it.
It is the division of the sarcode mass, as in an Amoeba, with the development of a new test upon the extruded portion.
In forms like Hyalosphenia, Euglypha, and Arcella, the peculiar test is a production from the ectosarc.
Without having observed the process, I suspect that the species oi Difflugia in the act of multiplication protrude their offspring mass of sarcode among particles of sand, which at once adhere and build up the strong wall of their test.
The mode of multiplication of the test-covered Rhizopods reminds one of the mode of production by division of the Desmids, and, in observing the process of production of the Euglypha, I was forcibly struck with its resemblance to the mode of production of Arthrodesmus octocornis.
The production of the young Rhizopod would correspond with the production of a half cell of a Desmid.
The mode of production of Rizopods, as indicated, suggests the probable mode of multiplication of the chambers of tlie Foraminifera.
Masses of sarcode, successively larger and larger, may from time to titae be quickly protruded to form the successively larger and larger chambers.
The walls of the chambers of the calcareous forms may be developed like the chitinous wall of an Arcella upon the protruded mass of sarcode, and the particles of sand of the arenaceous forms may become adherent in the same manner as is suspected to be the case in Difflugia.
In this connection it has occurred to me that just as the sarcode mass of a Rhizopod, previous to division, will apparently suddenly grow or expand to nearly double the size, perhaps also in this mode in many tissues of the higher animals we may have a similar procedure in the reproduction of cells.
Perhaps in this way the deep cells of the epidermis may give rise to the next series above, or the old ones may be displaced by extension of the protoplasmic mass below.
After observing the birth of a Eiiglypha, I collected material rich in Rhizopods, and spent much time in searching for others in the act of reproduction.
In some water squeezed from sphagnum collected near Swarthmore College, there were abundance of the Difflugian, which I have named Nehda flahellulum, with fewer individuals of Nehela numala.
They were all replete with food, and in most cases the tests so well occupied by the sarcode as to leave no perceptible interval.
Incidentally it may be observed that when a Difflugian discharges all its food or the remains of it and is some time deprived of sustenance, the sarcode mass becomes reduced so as to cccui)}^ but a small portion of the space within the test to which it is then attached by long threads of the ectosarc.
Having observed an individual of Nebela numata with a small bull)Ous mass of sarcode projecting from the mouth, I Avatched it closely.
In the course of one hour and three-quarters the protruded sarcode had gradually enlarged and assumed the form and nearl}'^ the size of the test.
Half an hour later the sarcodic mass suddenly burst, leaving detached from the Nehela test two large and clear globules of protoplasm, and separately the mass of granular matter, remains of the food, tliat had occupied the entosarc.
Later, the two globules of protoplasm appeared shrivelled, and the Nehela test contained only some dirt, part of the remains of the food which had occu])ied the entosarc.
Later, I saw the same process nearly repeated with a Nehela jlabellulam.
This measured a tenth of a millimetre broad, with a fraction less in length, and when first noticed had a mass of protruding protoplasm about one-thirtieth of a millimetre in diameter.
Three hours subsequentl}^ tlie latter had separated from the mouth of the test, and had acquired nearly the size and form of the Nehela.
In this condition it remained another hour, and shortly afterwards appeared shrivelled and dead.
The Nehela test appeared to be em])t3' of sarcode and contained only dirt, apparently the remains of the food which had occupied the entosarc.
Hcrtwig and Lesser (Archiv f. Mikr.
Anat.
1874, PI.
III., figs.
8 B. C.) represent the same condition in Lecythium hyalinum as the result of dissolution.
Biitschli mentions a nearly similar occurrence with an Arcella.
He sa3'S that after the conjugation of a pair, he observed one of the animals with a large portion of the protoplasm protruded.
Later, this la}' near the Arcella as a clear circular plate of the same size, but without mouth or structure.
The protoplasm had withdrawn into the test, and, later, both appeared decomposed.
These last cases ma}' have been abortive attempts at reproduction, ending in dissolution.
During the recent observations to detect the mode of multiplication of Rhizopods, I found an Arxella vulgaris which contained between the central sarcodic mass and the test four oval bodies.
These, at first glance, I thought were 3'oung Arcellae, but discovered that they were eggs, and, watcliing tliem for several days, they were seen to develop Rotifers.
They were prevented from escaping from the test by the sarcode mass of the Arcella^ and finally all died together.
On the Velocity of Infinite Fall.—VvoL Pliny E. Chase remarked that in his studies of the influence of planetary centres 18 of oscillation, orbital collision, vis viva, harmonic nodes, and luniiuons undulation, his attention had been lately directed to Ennis's views' respecting tlie influence of the velocity of infinite fall.
In nebular condensation from r to — , the increase of radial n velocity is (n/?i — l)\/2gr; the circular-orbital velocity at — ^zjfiartherefore the increment of radial velocity would be ^ 2 sufficient to produce orbital velocit3' when n=z — =11.656854.
If M==raodulus, or the present light of the sun's homogeneous luminiferous atmosphere, there appears to have been four transformations of uniform into variable velocit}', since the nebular rupture of the nearest fixed star, a Centauri.
For rt*i\l = 214289, earth's mean distance being taken as the unit.
The estimates for the distance of a Centauri, vary between 211400 and 231200.
Five rupturing condensations from a Centauri, bring us to earth; and single rupturing falls from Xeptune, Uranus, Saturn, and Jupiter, bring us, respectively, to the Asteroids, Mars, Venus, and Mercury.
The following table exhibits the accordance between theoretical and observed positions : — 7rtM-h?i5 = .996 Earth = 1.000 Xeptuue -^ ?i = 2.
577 Astrfea = 2.577 Uranus s.
p.2-r-?!.
= 1.517 Mars = 1.524 Saturn s. p. -r-?i= .749 Venus a.
= .749 Jupiter s. a.
-jw = .473 Mercury s. : 1.
= .477 Rev.
Charles F. Thomas was elected a member.
The following paper was ordered to be published : ' "Origin of the Stars."
2 s. secular ; p. perihelion ; a. aphelion.
& 0-^ft^0m.
< o O w CO pq ADDITIONAL NOTE ON BASSARICYON GABBII.
BY JOEL ASAPH ALLEN.
About a year since, in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,' I described and gave figures of the skull of Bassaricyo7i Gabhii, a new Procj'onid, and pointed out its distinctive cranial characteristics.
At that time the skin, belonging to the same individual as the skull, had been accidentally mislaid, and could not then be found.
Since that time, in re-arranging the collections at the National Museum, it has come to light, and has been kindljforwarded to me for description by Professor Spencer F. Baird.
As stated in the original description of the species, the onlj' specimens thus far known to naturalists consists of the skin and skull of a single individual collected in Costa Rica b}^ Mr. William M. Gabb, during his recent survey of that Republic.
The skull indicated a form widel}' distinct, generically, from an}^ other known Procyonid, presenting several features of resemblance to Bassaris.
In external form, however, it proves to be much like Sasua, though very much smaller, and with a quite different pattern of coloration.
The skin has been finely mounted by Professor Ward, of Rochester, N. Y., and offers the following characters (Plate 2) : — Nose produced, as long or longer than in Kasua, and of similar form ; ears rather small, rounded, about an inch in length, and about as broad as long; claws large and strong, moderatel}'curved and pointed, graduall}tapering to the end, those of the fore-feet nearh^ an inch in length — much longer and less curved than those of the hind-feet ; tail long, the vertebrae alone fully one-half the length of the head and body.
General color of the body brownish-black, with the tips of the hairs rusty -3'ellow,especialh^ over the thoracic portion of the dorsal surface.
Nose and chin grajish-white, this color extending back in a narrow streak along each side of the nose to behind the eye, the streaks being separated b}a narrow band of black ; the graj'^ of the chin also extends posteriorly on either side to beyond the angle of the mouth ; a small whitish spot below the eye and another on the ' Description of a new generic type {Bnsxaricyon) of Procyonid(e, from Costa Rica.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1876, pp.
20-23, pi.
I. cheek ; also an indistinctly defined area of whitish on the sides of the neck, immediately in front of the shoulder ; throat and breast pale yellowish-brown, varying to grayish-brown, much lighter than the general coloration.
Ears within and on the edges j-ellowish-white ; externally brownish-black.
Tail basally concolor with the back, passing into black at the tip, wholly without lighter rings, or even traces of them ; hence the coloration of the tail is entirely different from that met with in Nasua and Procyon.
The pelage is rather full and soft, and brownish beneath the surface.
The long hairs are, many of them, faintly tipped with pale rusty; these rusty tips are most numerous over the anterior half of the back, where they are also longer and of a lighter or more golden tint.
The ventral surface of the body is scarcely lighter than the back.
Size nearlythat of Mustela Pennanti.
Length from the tip of the nose to the e^^e, 3.01 (inches); to" ear, 5.00 ; to occiput, 5.G0 ; to base of tail, 21.00; tail vertebrae, 11.25 ; tail to end of hairs, 12.75 ; fore-foot, 3.00 ; hind-foot, 3.85.
In general form, especiall}^ in the long slender nose, and somewhat in the pictura of the face, this species bears considerable resemblance to Nasiia, much more resembling the species of this genus than those of Procyon.
The claws, however, are much longer and more attenuated, and the general form of the body is slenderer and the tail longer.
In dentition and cranial characters, however, this species differs widely in nearly every detail from any other known form of the family.
The specimen here described and figured is a fully adult (in fact, quite aged, as shown by the skull and dentition) female.
Talamanca, Costa Rica (Gabb).
July 3.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair.
Fifteen members present.
Protovermiculite^ a Neio Mineral Species.
— Professor Geo.
A. KoNiG described a micaceous mineral from Magnet Cove, Ark., to which he gave the name Protovermiculite, in preference to that of Hydrophilite, a name already existing in the list of mineralogic synonj-ms.
The mineral occurs in large foliated plates, loose in tile soil, and also in smaller prismatic crystals, with Appatite in the black garnet, of the same locality.
The structure is strongly micaceous, the habitus hexagonal ; but optically biaxial, and hence, as all biaxial micas, probabl}^ monosy metric.
The angle of the optical axis is very small, the hyperbolas touching each other.
Thin laminffi are slightly flexible, though without elasticity.
Cleavage is less marked than in micas generally.
The color is grayish-green in the interior of the plates, 3-ellowish-silvery to bronze color on the outside.
Thin laminje transmit brownishgreen light.
Hardness a little below 2.
Lustre submetallic, and touch somewhat unctuous.
Spec.
gr.
= 2.269.
Before the ])lowpipe it exfoliates slightly, and fuses at 4 to a black glass.
Yields much water in the closed tube.
Xo characteristic reactions with the fluxes.
Strong sulphuric acid attacks the powdered mineral vehementl}^, causing complete decomposition, while flocculent silica separates ; hydrochloric acid also efl"ects decomposition.
The finely pulverized mineral, placed in an air-tight space over oil of vitriol, loses 20.3 per cent, of water in 24 hours, when the weight remains constant; the water is reabsorbed in less than one hour in contact with the atmosphere.
A larger quantity of water is not absorbed, even when placed in a saturated atmosphei'e.
There seems to be a ground for this behavior, although hidden at pi-esent.
Why are other micaceous minerals, much more cleavable than the vermiculites, and furnished with more capillary spaces, not at all hygroscopic ?
It may be supposed that a force of attraction other than a mere physical or rather mechanical one must exist in the latter.
However, the author is in accord with Prof. J. P. Cooke, Jr.'s, views regarding the cause of exfoliation in vermiculite minerals and crystals of artificial compounds.
(Am.
Acad., Boston, 1874.)
Prof. Cooke attributes exfoliation to the escape of the water of crj^stallization causing the structure of a mineral to break up.
Some substances loose their water of cr3'Stallization without forcible means, over sulphuric acid, for instance, and their structure is not broken up ; 3'et they do not reabsorb the lost water.
Sodium carbonate and the sulphates RSO^-f 12 aq 270 [18Y7.
maj' be cited in this connection.
Evidently' there is here a broad field for studj' of the underlying laws.
Still Prof. Cooke's hypothesis is accepted for the present, as far as it regards the vermiculites.
The present case of Protovermiculite gives it support.
Here are two micas, presenting, as will be shown further on, an identical composition, qualitatively and quantitativel}-, having nearly equal quantities of water.
Exposed to strong heat the one increases its volume tenfold by exfoliation, the other hardly doubles it.
But when it is found that the former retains over oil of vitriol 11 per cent, of water, whilst the latter only retains 3.36 per cent, under the same conditions, their differing behavior may be accounted for to a certain extent, on the assumption that this "water is essential to the structure; the remaining water being accidental moisture.
Composition of the Protovermiculite was found to be in several analj'ses (the greenish part differs from the silver-white or bronze only by a few tenths of per cent, of ferrous oxide) : — Oxygen.
SiO., = 33.28 17.738 Al.,03 = 14 88 6.934 Fe.Oj = 6.36 1.908 FeO = 0.57 0.125 MgO = 21.53 8.510 H2O (of crystal!.)
= 3.36 HjO ihjgroscop.)
= 20.54 MnO = trace.
TiO, = trace.
Atomic quotients.
Si = 15.55 0.555 Al = 7.95 Fe = 4.45 0.039 f"-^^* Fe = 0.45 Mg = 13.01 6.550 0.181 100.51 Dividing with 0.184 (a1 -|Fe) into the other atomic quotients, the ratio is obtained : — Si : M : Mg : O : H^O = 3.01 : 1.00 : 3.989 : 11.918 : 0.983 corresponding absolutely with the symbol — R. VI IT I The mica from Culsagee, North Carolina, described by Prof. Cooke (loco cit.
), as Cidsageeite, is composed as follows, according to closel}' agreeing analyses by himself, Dv.
Thos.
M. Chatard and the author (F. A. Genth, Corundum, Proc.
Am.
Philos.
Soc.
of Philadelphia, 18T8), and after deducting the water lost over sulphuric acid ; — Protovermiculite (Konig) after treatment over SO4H,.
41.62 18.60 Culsageeite (Cooke).
SiOj Al.,03 F.O3 FeO MgO 11,0 37.58 19.73 5.95 0.58 25.13 11.09 7.25 0.71 26.90 4.20 The ratio of Culsageeite corresponds closely to the symbol — R3 R Sis O12 + 3H,0.
It might seem that a difference of two molecules of water were not sufficient basis for a separation into two species.
Yet when the important role which this water plays in the process of exfoliation is considered, and that Culsageeite exfoliates about ten times stronger than Protovermiculite, with an otlierwise identical composition, the autlior is of opinion that strict science requires a separation.
The name was chosen to indicate the imperfect vermiculation as compared with the other members of this group.
On the atomic ratio of Jefferisite, this most characteristic vermiculating mineral, there existed some uncertainty in the mind of the author, since the analyses made by Prof. Brush, Dr. Chatard, and himself do not quite agree, and jield atomic quotients quite unsatisfactor3'.
In connection with the above investigation it was thought important to analyze the West Chester mineral once more, with the greatest care possible.
0.5 gr.
of the finely pulverized mineral was placed in an air-tight bell-jar over sulphuric acid.
In two days it lost 0.054 gr.
or 10.8 per cent.
It was kept for eight days longer, and weighed every second da}', the weight remained absolutely constant.
The same substance was then allowed to reabsorb the hygroscopic water by exposure to the air, and afterwards placed in an air-bath at a temperature of 106 C° for 18 hours, when it only lost 8.6 per cent.
The air-drj^ substance gave — Si = 0.555 Al = 0.1690)0^^3 Ve = 0.0403 K" Fe = 0.0210 )„<, Mff = 0.5042 /"•^"■'" up = 0.5G1 (dried over SO^H^) H,0 = 0.683 (dried at 106 C.*^) 100.59 Dividing by 0.2153 (Al -f Pe) we obtain — Si : R : R : H^O = 2.58 : 1.00 : 2.44 : 2.91 : (3.17) = 5.16 : 2.00 : 4.88 : 5.82 : (6.34).
(1) Brush's analysis (Am.
Journ.
Sci., 1861); (2) Dr. Thos.
M. Chatard's anal3'sis {Genth on Corundum I. c. siqva); and (3) the author's {ibidem) give the following ratios : — Si : R : R Brush 5.228 : 2 : 4.416 Chatard 5.412 : 2 : 4.928 Konig, 1st 5.054 : 2 : 4.736 "2d 5.16 : 2 : 4.88 Prof. J. P. Cooke deduced from the first ratio the formula R^ R, Si.
0,(,, omitting the nearl}half atom of R in excess of 4.
This makes the mineral a true orthosilicate, and is quite satisfactor}'.
But does the analytical result justify such a course?
Only on the SiO^ = 33.03 AlA = 17.38 Fe03 = 7.41 FeO = 1.44 MgO = 20.16 HjO = 20.90 supposition that tlie analyzed material was heterogeneous.
On the Other hand, the two anaij'ses bj' the author, made five years apart, and on quite different material, agreeing so well among themselves, point very strongly to the fact that instead of omitting the half atom, it has to be increased to a whole atom, and the formula of Jefferisite is therefore to be written — R. R, Sij Oji + 6H,0 (Kouig), instead of — R, K., Sij 0,Q+ 6H2O (Cooke).
By doubling the molecules of Culsageeite and Protovermiculite their close affinity to Jefferisite is still more perceptible : — Jefferisite ^5^2815 0,i + 6H,0 Culsageeite Rs K, Sig O24+ 6n20 Protovermiculite .
.
.
.
Rg ®2 ^'h O-ii"!^HjO.
Jefferisite and Culsageeite exfoliate with equal energy ; the author is inclined to write the formulas of the three species in the above manner as a consequence, on mechanical principles.
July 10.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twent3^-four members present.
The death of David S. Brown was announced.
July 17.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirteen members present.
The resignation of Dr. Henry H. Smith, as a member, was read and accepted.
July 24.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Nine members present.
Note on Color Variation in Mammals.
— ^Ir.
J.
A. Ryder called attention to the fact that many animals, when long domesticated, as the horse, ox, dog, and cat, were frequcntl}asymmetrically colored.
Horses were often seen with one white foot, or in extreme cases with three, wliile the white color sometimes extended further up the limb upon one side than upon the other.
He had freqiieiitl}^ noticed the same sort of irregularity' in the coloration of cattle.
It was also noticeable in a very marked degree in rabbits and guinea-pigs, and he had recently seen some goals that were exceedingl}' asymmetrical in the disposition of color areas.
In studying color variation among feral animals he had noticed that such variations, so far as his observations had extended, were invariably S3'rametrical.
In the case of a raccoon, in the collection of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, where the A'ariation from the t^^pical coloration of the species was great, the color areas were disposed symmetrically in the same manner as in the ordinary specimens that were its companions in tlie same cage.
The difference was onl}'in the shade, this specimen being a rich brownish-3'ellow, except the annuli around the tail and the lateral bands on the face, which were of a considerably deeper hue.
The nose, feet, and eyes in the ordinary specimens are black ; in this specimen all the dermal structures had assumed a much lighter tint, nearly a flesh color.
The iris has assumed a remarkabledifferent tint from the jet black of the others, and it is a good illustration of the correlation in coloration of the pelt and e^-es, without at the same time having reached total albinism.
In a specimen of Lepus sylvaficus in the Academy's collection, said to be from New Jersey, the fur is cream colored, and very long and soft, but perfectly s^'mmetrical and uniform in color, and in a specimen marked L. audubonii, from California, there is a symmetrically disposed median white band running from the parietal region to the muzzle.
In rats, nearly white, the color areas were also found to be very nearly the same on both sides, and in two specimens of ArvicoJa, one with a white head was found to be colored senumetricaliy, and the other with white head and shoulders and white patches on the flanks and outer sides of thighs was also colored s^'mmetrically.
In specimens of Virginia deer in the collection of the Academy, where white and the usual color were separate, the same symmetry was noted as in the other feral specimens mentioned above.
In many domestic animals there is a most decided tendency to preserve, more or less, the symmetry of coloration of the ancestral t3'pe, but domestication seems to be at the bottom of the great variabilitjr and ase^imetr^^ of color of animals brought under its influence.
The camel, however, seems to be an exception.
The following summarjof the foregoing facts was offered : — 1.
That bilateral se^nmetry of coloration is interfered with in some way by domestication.
2.
That where variation in color takes place in feral animals, they are invariabl}^, so far as ol)served, symmetricalh' colored.
3.
That it is possible that the degx'ee of asymmetry is an indication of the length of time that domestication has been operative.
July 31.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Seventeen members present.
Poisonous Properties of the Legumiuosse.
— Dr. Rothrock remarked that hitherto we had by common consent regarded the plants of the order Leguminosse as, on the whole, rather innocuous.
During the past few years a number of its representatives have been attracting attention on account of tlieir supposed agency in poisoning cattle and horses in our southwestern territories.
It is true that none of these save the Sophora^ to be mentioned last, have been subjected to a severe scientific test by ph3^siological experiments ; still the main facts alleged are doubtless to be depended upon.
The veteran botanist of the Pacific Coast, Dr. A. Kellogg, has a short article on the subject in the Proceedings of the California Academy, vol.
vi.
p. 3, which goes over most of the ground.
It is then only to give an increased circulation to the facts that he alluded to them here.
In southern Colorado, especially about Fort Garland, the ofiending plant is Oxytropis Lamherti^ a most variable species.
At first, from some of the symptoms, it was supposed that it was due to something like Aconitum, but as the region was out of the range of an}' considerable quantity of A. nasiUum, the only species likely to be found near, and as we had no definite observations on its action, attention was directed elsewhere, and the Oxytropis pretty clearly fixed as the plant.
The effect of this appears to be long enduring; the animal becoming demented, and wasting away as his fondness for the poison increases to something like the opium hnbit in man.
Dr. Kellogg contrasts this with the temporar}' effects (intoxication and stupefaction) of a southern species of ^Tephrosia.
During Dr. Rothrock's stay at New Camp Grant, in Arizona, in 1874, it was alleged that Hosackia Purshiana was producing like effects on the horses.
In California Dr. Kellogg regards the noxious plant there as Astragalus Menziesii^ Gray.
And it is also asserted that Astragalus Hornii, Gray, and Astragalus lentiginosus^ Dough, are in tlie same list in California.
The general name for the disease in the animals is " Loco."
Among the inhabitants of the southwest it simply refers to their becoming foolish.
As 3'et we cannot say on what active principle the effects depend; neither do we know whether it is dissipated in drj'ing.
It would be well if exact experiments in this direction could be instituted.
The boundary lines between a poison and a remed}* are rather those of degree than of kind, and it is not improbable that in those veiy plants our ph3'sicians may find a means of " counteracting some tendenc}^ to death."
Regarding Soph or a speciosa^ Benth., from Texas, our knowledge is now well grounded, thanks to Prof. H. C. Wood, Jr., M.D.
He has succeeded in obtaining an alkaloid, which he names Soiihoria from the bean.
Its effects are not unlike those of Calabar bean.
For a full account of this see Philadelphia 3Iedical Times, August 4, 1877.
The Indians of Texas use the bean to produce an intoxication which lasts from two to three daj's.
Half a bean, it is said, will induce intoxication, and a whole one may lead to dangerous symptoms.
Julia A. H. Walker was elected a member.
August 7.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair, Sixteen members present.
August 14.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
A paper entitled " On Lagochila, a new genus of Catostomoid Fishes," by David S. Jordan and A. W. Braj^ton, was presented for publication.
The deaths of Dwight D. Willard and Timothy A. Conrad were announced.
Influence of Magnetiam on Living Ot'gaiiisms.
— A letter from Dr. John Yansant, dated New Orleans, December 14, 1876, was read, stating substantially that he had killed a sj^ider b}' exposing it to the influence of a magnetic current.
The animal had its vitality destroyed by the magnetism emanating from a small steel magnet of the U shape, commonly sold in the shops.
The legs of the magnet were about two and a half inches long by a half inch wide, and one-sixth of an inch thick, the distance between the poles being about one quarter of an inch.
He noticed a small spider actively running along the arm of his chair.
He brushed it off carefully with his finger and it fell upon the carpet.
It began to run but was somewhat impeded by the roughness of the carpet.
Having removed the armature he slid the magnet along the carpet following after the spider until it was between the poles.
The animal almost instantly stopped and in a few seconds seemed to be motionless ; but at the end of two or three minutes it began slowl^y to move its legs and elevate and depress its head, thus touching and separating itself from one or the other of the poles, but without going from between them.
He did not touch it.
At the end of five minutes the spider was quite still.
After a lapse of ten minutes he covered both spider and magnet with a large tumbler.
At the expiration of two hours he removed the glass and observed the spider with a maguifj'ing lens.
It was apparently dead.
It was not touched during this inspection.
It was left in position some twelve hours longer.
Dr. Yansant states that he has killed spiders and other small animals, as worms and insects, as well as some plants, b}!magnetism at different times during the past eight 3'ears, but never before succeeded in destroying the life of a spider so quicklj^ and without touching it frequently, though lightly, with the magnet he used.
In the opinion of Dr. Yansant this experiment demonstrates that magnetism affects the functions of living beings.
Mineralogical Notes.
— Professor Geo.
Aug. Konig presented the result of an examination of silver ore from " Silver Islet," Lake Superior.
In a gangue of Calcite and some quartz one observes Galenite, Sphalerite, native silver, and spots of a pinchbeck colored mineral, possessing metallic lustre were observed.
A picking by hand of the latter Avas not possible, owing to the smallness of the grains.
13}^ placing the material in dilute hj'drochloric acid, the metallic minerals were left as a spong}' mass, including the quartz grains ; Sphalerite could be eliminated b}' sorting.
The mixture was then anal^'zed with the following result : — Ag := 32.68 PbS = 38.18 (M, Co) = 8.96 Fe = 0.35 S = 1.81 As =: 10.56 Sb ^ trace.
Quartz = 6.00 Calcite = 1.20 99.74 The mineral mixture was completely decomposed by nitric acid.
Nickel and arsenic are in the ratio =• 2.15 : 1 equal to " Xiccolite."
The latter mineral is strongly cobaltiferous.
The sulphur must be considered to be combined with silver as Argentite.
When particles of the mixture, showing no Niccolite under the lens, after having been flattened out and rubbed in the mortar, were then dissolved in nitric acid, silver removed b}^ hydrochloric acid, the filtrate gave invariabl^^ the arsenic reaction.
It is highly probable that a ver}' basic silver arsenid is present in the ore.
The speaker, not being aware of an}' identification of Xiccolite from Silver Islet, deemed it expedient to make this communication.
1877.]
277 On Strengite from Bockbridge Co., Va. — Prof. Geo.
Augustus KoNiG described a mineral wliicli he discovered in cavities in Dufrenite.
The surface of these cavities is coated with a green spheroidal and radially laminated substance, greenish-j-ellow, and somewhat silk}' on the fracture, which the speaker considered to be Cacoxenite.
On this latter substance clusters of beautiful, though small, cr3'stals are seen.
The}' present short prismatic forms; their color varies from light pink to deep carmine red, even towards amethystine shades ; their lustre is vivid and vitreous, and their hardness slightl}^ below 4.
They are transparent.
A magnifying power of 2 diameters is required for a proper analj'sis of the S3'mmetr3'of the crj-stals, when they disclose the shape shown in the figure.
The prisms are invariably terminated by a rectangular face (often perfect]}' square) which possesses adamantine lustre (o), and b}' two domes (6, b) (m, m).
The m faces are smooth and brilliant, the b faces are striated.
There are two prisms, and the prismatic faces (p') appear striated, but not so strongl}^ as the b faces.
Pyramidal faces appear on some of the ci^ystals, but only on one side, whilst opposite only the domatic face m is visible.
The face o in this case presents a pentagonal shape.
None of the crystals possessing this curious hemimorphism was of measurable size.
The goniometer used is one with two telescopes, but the light was so feebly reflected from the minute faces that no image could be obtained with the eye-piece, which, therefore, was removed, and the light reflected into the eye directl}'.
A number of observations were made for every angle and the mean taken, but this method was necessarily uncertain and ineffective.
Angles measured.
p f^p = 122C 20' p'f^p' = 1 170 25' m^p = 139035' f^p' = 900 20' (first crystal.)
/\, p = 90"" 5' (second crvstal.)
b /^b = 510 m ^m = G4P b f^o = 115^20' 7n f^o = 122^ The symmetry of the mineral is plainlj' orthorhombic, although the angle o /\}o was not found exactly' 90° b}direct measurement ; because the prismatic face is not even, but striated.
The macrodomatic angle m /\ m = 64° and ^m = 122°, we deduce — m A VI (1803 — 122-) = 58°, ~Y~ = ^~° 580 _j_ 320 = 900.
That is, the basal plane o is exactly at right angles with the main axis, A ground form and its parameters could not be established as no pyramidal faces were observed on any of the measurable crystals.
For the projection of the crj-stal one has — Macrodome tg.
58^ =1.603 Brachydome tg.
04° 40' = 2.112 Prism p' tg.
610 10'= 1.816 Prism p tg.
58° 42' = 1.644 Bhncpipe Characters.
— In the closed tube the color of the mineral turns to golden j^ellow, has a tendency to decripitate, and yields water.
Treated in the forceps with the oxj'dizing flame, the mineral is hardl}' atFected, except the change of color, while the flame colors bluish-green (phosphoric acid).
In the point of the reducing flame the mineral fuses at 4 to a black non-magnetic glass.
With the fluxes it gives only iron reaction.
For analysis only 30.7 mgr.
could be collected.
After ignition the reddish-brown powder was soluble in strong nitric acid.
Phosphoric acid was precipitated b}^ niolybdic solution, and in the filtrate the ferric iron by ammonium hydrate.
The author obtained water = 6.1 mgr., Mg,P,0.
= 19.8 mgr.
(P.Oj = 12 mgr.
), Fe^O ^ 13.0 mgr., or in per cent.
— H,0 =19.87:18 =1.104 = 4.16 Pp.
= .39.30 : 142 = 0.277 = 1.045 FeA = 42.3 : 160 = 0.265 = 1.000 101.47 The mineral is, therefore, Fe,P^Og 44H.,0, and is identical with " Strengite," described by A. Xiess (Xeues Jahrbiich f. Min.
1877, p. 8).
According to Xiess, Strengite occurs at the Dunsberg Limonite mine, near Giessen in mamillary, botryoidal aggregations with radially fibrous structure and drusy surfaces, rarely in single crystals, possessing strong vitreous lustre, transparency, and red color in all shades, especially peach blossom and carmine tints, sometimes nearly colorless.
The crystals present a tabular form which is produced b}'^ the predominance of the macropinakoid.
Niess has only observed the prism, the p^'ramid, and the macropinakoid, with indications of a macrodome.
Hence the type of Strengite from the only localities now known — Giessen, Hessen, and Rockbridge Co., Va. — is remarkabl^^ differing.
The basal plane and tlie domes, so characteristic at the latter place, are quite wanting at the former.
But of tlie identit}' of the mineral there is hardly any doubt possible.
The Rockbridge variety is only observed in crystals.
Since presenting the first description to the Academy the speaker examined a specimen on which there was one cr^'stal corresponding to the Skorodite type of the Giessen variety.
August 21.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Eighteen members present.
The Lacquer Tree.
— Professor Thomas Meehan remarked that he had had an extract from tlie Public Ledger sent to him, as State Botanist, with the request that he would give any information in his power as to the chances of the tree thriving in this State.
He said : — "The Lacquer plant, 7?/n/« vernicifera., is so much like our common poison ash, R. venenata.^ and Japan trees generally do so very well in this latitude, that there is no room to doubt that the tree would thrive.
But it is not worth while to introduce the plant, as onr own poison ash has the same pi'operties in every respect.
The 'Lacquer' is the juice of the tree.
It is at first whitish, but becomes black when exposed to the air.
It is mixed with a small portion of oil derived from a kind of Trumpet vine, and the exact portion of oil, or the way of mixing it, is supposed to be a secret possessed only by those ' in the trade' in Japan.
The ' Lacquer work' itself is made simply by putting ver3' fine powdered charcoal on the wood before apph'ing the prepared resin.
Crude gum which I have seen from this Japan poison ash is so exactl}^ like that which I have taken from our own poison ash, that I have little hesitation in saying that any one wishing to ivy the experiment, would do just as well with the product of our own swamps as with imported trees from Japan.
"It is well, however, to remember that both of these — our own and the Japan trees — are excessively' poisonous, much more so than our common poison vine.
It is very friendl}^ with me, as almost all these noxious plants are ; but I have known man}' persons very badly served even by passing where the trees were."
August 28.
The President, Dr. Kuschenberger, in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
B. F. Lautenbach, M.D., and Frank Woodbury, M.D., were elected members.
Prof. Wm.
A. Buckhout, of Centre Co., Pa., was elected a correspondent.
The following paper was ordered to be printed : — 280 [18T7.
Fiir.
1.
ON LAGOCHILA, A NEW GENUS OF CATOSTOMOID FISHES.
BY DAVID S. JORDAN AND A. W. BRAYTON.
Diu'ino; a recent collecting tour in the Soutlieru States the writers secured in the Chickamauga River, near Ringgold, Catoosa Count}', Georgia, a species of Sucker, new to science, which is believed to represent a new generic type.
This genus, for which we suggest the name Lagochila (lagocheilos, having a hare-lip, in allusion to the peculiar mouth, and to the vernacular name of Hare-lip Sucker), bears somewhat the same relation to Ilyxostoma, and the other tj-pical Gafostommae, that the genus Exoglossum bears to the tj'pical Leuciscinse.
Lagochila lacera, Jordan and Brayton, gen. and sp.
nov. Generic Gharacters.
— Similar to Myxostoma (Pfychostomus, Agassiz) except in the structure of the mouth parts.
Dorsal fin short; lateral line well developed; scales large, subequal; airbladder in three parts ; fontanelle between parietal bones well developed, phar^'ngeal bones weak, with numerous small teeth ; upper lip not all protractile, greatl}' enlarged, finely plicate; lower lip longitudinally enlarged, but attenuated, and singular in form.
It consists of two elongated and narrow lobes, separated by a narrow deep fissure, which extends inward to the edge of the mandible proper, which seems to be armed with a rather hard or almost horny plate, about as in the genus Pantosteus.
The two lobes of the lip are weakl}^ papillose.
The lower lip is entirely separated from the upper at the angles by a deep fissure.
Over this fissure the skin of the cheeks lies as a sort of cloak ; the crease separating this skin from the mouth, extending up on the sides of the muzzle.
The fissure between the lips extends down on the skin of the under side of the head.
The opercle is extremely short, and the ej-e is entirely in the posterior part of the head.
Specific Gharacters.
— Head rather short — 4§ in length, conical, with lengthened snout, the region between the eyes flattened and ].
View from below.
2., Front view of mouth (natural size).
187T.J 281 provided with prominent mucous ridges; cheeks and lower part of the head rather swollen ; greatest length of opercle not more than that of eye.
E^'e medium, contained twice in snout, 4^ in length of side of head.
Body rather elongate, not much elevated or compressed, the form being intermediate between that of Afi/xostoma cervina and that of M. duqueanii.
Position and form of tins as usual in the genus Myxostoma^ the dorsal rather short and not especially elevated, its free border rather more concave than usual.
Fin rays : D. I.
12, A. I.
7, Y.
9.
Scales rather large, but little crowded forwards, 5-45-5.
Lateral line very distinct, nearly straight.
Color somewhat olivaceous above, sides and belly more silver}^; lower fins faintly orange.
Length of types respectively 10 and 4 and 3 inches.
Hab.
Streams tributary to the southern bend of Tennessee River, in the States of Georgia, Tennessee, and Alabama.
Fishermen tell us that this is the commonest and most "valued species of sucker found in that region, and that it is everywhere known hy the name of "Hare-lip Sucker," and sometimes of "SplitFis.
3. mouth" or "Split-lip Sucker."
It frequents rather deep waters, and is often taken with the hook.
We obtained but two specimens in the Chickamauga, and one in Elk River at Estill Springs, in Tennessee.
A minute examination of the bones of the head and jaws is desirable, but we have thought it best to defer it 19 until more specimens are obtained, not wishing to mutilate the original tj^pes.
The drawings accompanying this paper were made from the larger of the type specimens.
The genera of Catostomidee maj' be thus compared : — * Body oblong or elongate, with a short, subquadrate dorsal fin of 10 to 17 developed rays.
f Mouth singular; the upper lip not protractile, greatly enlarged; the lower lip developed as two separate lobes ; the lower jaw provided W'ith a sheath (LajocMliiicB).
a.
Air bladder in tliree parts ; scales large, subequal ; pharjmgeal bones and teeth ordinary ; fontanelle well-developed ; lateral line present.
Lagochila, 1. ft Mouth normal, the lower lip undivided, either tuberculate or plicate [Catostomince).
b.
Air bladder in three parts ; lateral line present ; fontanelle present ; scales large, subequal.
c. Pharyngeal bones verj' broad and strong ; the lower 7 to 10 teeth on each side, greatly enlarged and truncate ; the teeth on the upper part of the bone small, as usual in the family.
Placopiiarynx, 2. cc.
Pharyngeal bones not especially enlarged ; the teeth of the usual type.
JMyxostoma, 3. bb.
Air bladder in two parts.
d. No lateral line ; fontanelle present ; lips plicate ; no mandibulary sheath ; scales large.
Ekimyzon, 4. dd.
Lateral line well developed ; lips tuberculate.
e. Fontanelle distinct ; no mandibulary sheath.
/.
Scales moderate, not crowded forwards, about equal over the body ; body long and little compressed ; head long and flattened, transversely concave between orbits ; the physiognomy being therefore peculiar.
IIypextelium, 5. ff.
Scales small ; smaller anteriorly and much crowded ; head transversely convex between orbits.
Catostomus, C. ee.
Fontanelle obliterated hy the union of the parietal bones ; mandible with a cartilaginous sheath ; scales small.
PANTOSTEU.S, 7.
* Body much elongated, subcylindrical forwards ; dorsal elongate, falciform, of 30 or more rays ; fontanelle obliterated by the union of the parietal bones {Cycleptince).
g. Mouth small, subinferior, with papillose lips ; scales rather small.
Cycleptus, 8.
*** Body oblong oval, compressed ; dorsal elongate, elevated in front, of 20 or more rays ; fontanelle present {Bubalichihyinm).
h. Dorsal raj-s about 30 in number (24 to 33) ; anal rays about ten (9 to 12) ; scales large.
i. Pharyngeal bones narrow, "with the teeth relatively thin and weak.
j.
Mouth small, inferior, protractile downwards ; dorsal fin often greatly elevated.
Carpiodes, 9. jj.
Mouth larger, subterminal, protractile forwards (species of larger size, dusky colors, with lower dorsal).
Ichthyobus, 10. a. Phar^'ugeal bones strong ; the teeth comparatively coarse and large, increasing in size downwards ; dorsal fin moderately elevated ; mouth inferior.
BUBALICHTHYS, 11. hh.
Dorsal fin with about 50 rays ; anal 13 ; scales moderate ; teeth as in BubalicMhys (?)
(Asiatic species).
Myxocyprinus, 12.
September 4, The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fifteen members present.
On the Bed-hug and its Allies^.
— Prof. Leidy reraarkerl that it was eommoiil}'^ supposed that the swallow, pigeon, and bat were infested with the bed-bug, and that those animals introduced the insect into houses.
Packard (Guide to Stud3of Insects, 551) observes that the bed-bug " lives as a parasite on the domestic birds;" and adds that a gentleman informed him "that he has found a nest of swallows on a court-house in Iowa swarming with bed-bugs."
Westwood (Introd.
ii.
475, note,) says it is certain that bed-bugs "swarm in the American timber employed in the construction of new houses."
" In the western part of our country," continued Prof. L., "I frequentlyheard that bed-bugs were to be found at any time beneath the bark of the Cottonwood and the pine.
In these positions I never found one, nor have I ever found the insect except in the too familiar proximity of man.
Keceutly, when in the West, while watching some cliff' swallows passing in and out of their retort-shaped mud nests, built under the eaves of a house, I was told that these nests swarmed with bed-bugs, and tiiat usually people would not allow the birds to build in such places, because they introduced bed-bugs into the houses.
Having collected a number of the bugs, as well as others from the interior of the house, specimens of both of which are submitted to the examination of the members, I found that while the latter are true bed-bugs, Cimex lectularius, the former are of a different species, the C.hirundini)^.
The bugs infesting the bat and pigeon have likewise been recognized as a peculiar species, with the name of C. pipistrelli^ and G. columbariuay Prof. L. further noticed that the habit of the G. hirundinis was similar to that of C. lectuJarius in the circumstance that the bugs during the daytime would secrete themselves in crevices of the boards away from the nests.
After sunset he had observed the bugs leave their hiding-places and make their way to the nests.
From these observations it would appear as if the peculiar bugs of the animals mentioned did not reciprocal!}'
infest their hosts.
On the Growth of Goccidus Indicus.
— Mr. Ryder remarked that the termini of the branches of Goccidus i7idicus, as observed in the Horticultural Hall in Fairmount Park, were coiled to the left about objects that came within reach.
These terminal coils, which simulated tendrils in form, would, if straightened out, measure 6 to 8 inches in length.
The buds upon them appeared to be aborted or rudimentary, and as soon as the coil was securely wound round its object of support, growth in a longitudinal direction in the branch in question seemed to cease ; but below the proximal part of the coil, or that nearest the root, one of the fully developed buds would break and continue the ascending axis, which, when it had attained a length of 1 or 2 feet, would coil its terminus, and stop growing lengthwise as the brancli had done from which it grew.
This process seemed to be repeated indefinitely.
The plant might be called a terminal twiner.
Other menispermaceous plants seemed to have a similar tendenc}', though not so marked, and some were not very difterent in habit from ordinary twiners, as, for example, Menispermum canadensis.
September .11.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twentj'-three members present.
A paper entitled " On a New Species of Helix from Texas," by Wm.
G. Mazyck, was presented for publication.
September 18.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-seven members present.
The death of H. E. Van Rijgersraa, a Correspondent of the Academ}', was announced.
On the Distribution of Plants.
— Isaac C Martindale exhibited specimens of Phallus, and stated that he had noticed its reappearance in the yard attached to his dwelling for four years.
Its development was very rapid ; at the time it was first noticed this year it presented the appearance of a hen's egg with about onethird of the surface protruding from the ground ; within twentyfour hours it had more than doulvled in size, and showed some signs of an opening at the upper end ; about six hours later the stipe had forced its wa}' out to the extent of nearly six inches.
Although so offensive in odor, it attracted large numbers of files, from twenty to thirty being on it at one time.
He stated, as a singular fact, that this species reappeared year after ^-ear in a space not more than three feet in diameter ; and although plants of this class produce an immense amount of spores, not more than four specimens of this species had been noticed near the locality on any occasion.
In connection with the subject, Mr. Martindale further stated that probablj' no class of plants have a greater amount of pollen in proportion to tlie number of seeds produced tban the Pines.
He had recently detected one tree of Finns mitis, near Camden, which species he believed was gradually disappearing from this section of the country ; there were but three cones on the tree, which was a large one, and evidently on the decline.
Aubrey H. Smith spoke of the disappearance of the Red Oak, Quercus rubra^ from a locality in western Pennsjivania, about one hundred miles from Lake Erie, that had been visited by him during the past summer.
He was informed that it had been quite abundant there thirty or forty years ago; indeed large numbers of fallen and partlj^ decaj^ed trees were still to be seen through the woods.
Mr. Martindale also stated that while a number of plants that wei-e now common in the Southern States bordering on the Atlantic coast, and of frequent occurrence in this latitude and further north a few years ago, were graduall}'' disappearing from their northern localities, other species, heretofore regarded exclusivel}'' as southern, were extending their range to the northward.
He had recently collected Pluchea hifrons near Cape May, New Jersey, a species which had not heretofore been detected in that State.
September 25.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twent3'-nine members present.
The death of John Milton Earle, a Correspondent of the Academy, was announced.
A. J. Drexel, Alexis T. Cope, Miss Clementine Cope, and Miss C. E. Cope were elected members.
The following were elected Correspondents : — Clarence King, of Washington, Daniel C. Eaton, of Xew Haven, Count A. G. Marschall, of Vienna, Edward Yon Mojsisovics, of V^ienna, Dion^^s Stur, of Vienna, Franz Toula, of Vienna, A. Bastian, of Vienna, J. G. Rein, of Frankfurt on the Main, C. Arendts, of Munich, Spiridione Brusina, of Agrara, Jos.
Szabo, of Buda Pest, C. Stahl, of Stockholm, Philippe de la Harpe, of Lausanne, Elisee F. Reclus, of Paris, Emile Cartailhac, of Toulouse, Ernest Chantre, of Lyon, J. J. Collenot, of Semur, Henri Coquand, of Mai*seilles, Jules Gosselet, of Lille, Edmund Hebert, of Paris, Wm.
Boyd Dawkins, of Manchester, Peter Martin Duncan, of London, A. H. Green, of Leeds, J. W. Judd, of London, John Morris, of Tjondon, Andrew Murra}', of London, AVm.
Whitaker, of London, and H. B. Medlicott, of Calcutta.
October 2.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair.
Thirty-two members present.
The death of Dr. Edw, Roemer, correspondent, was announced.
Sensitive Sfamens in Purslane.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan said the stamens of Portulaca oleracea were sensitive.
They expanded wlien the flower opened, and, on being touched, rose slowly, though with some force, and embraced the pistil.
Ou being again touched, they fell back to their former position.
After having once gone through this upward and backward movement, the}^ vvould not repeat it, so ftir as his observation went.
It was better to use the lens to observe the motion on the growing plant in the ground than on a gathered specimen.
He remarked on how much there was to observe in the common things around us, and yet the long time it seemed to take us to discover them.
About thirty-five years ago, he said, lie made the discover}' of sensitive stamens in the common garden Portulacas the subject of his first contribution to scientific literature; and one would suppose that h.e himself at least, with this hint, Avould have examined the Purslane before now.
He spoke of the relationship of Portulacaceas with Cactacese.
Opuntia had sensitive stamens, and with the same behavior in the same organs in Poi-tulaca, essentially the same viscid juice, and tendency to succulence, there was little beyond an increased number and consolidation of parts in Cactacese to distinguish them from Portulaceee.
Emigration of Solan inn rostratinn.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a specimen of Solanum rostratum, collected bj^ Dr. A. Gattinger, of Nashville, Tennessee, from waste ground al)0ut that city, where it had evidently established itself.
It is a native of Colorado and contiguous territor}', and is believed to be the plant which originally sustained the beetle Doryphora decemlineata, until it found a choicer article in the common potato.
Mr. M. tiiought this the first case of its l)eing found east of the Mississippi River.
The potato beetle had in a measure forsaken it, and it was now following the beetle.
Dimorphism in Ailantus glandnlosa.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited specimens of Ailantus glandulosa, gathered on the grounds of .Mrs.
Aaron V. Brown, of Xashville, Tenn.
There were but six to seven pairs of leaflets forming the entire leaf, terminating in a pair, and not with an odd one, as in the normal form.
The leaflets were roundish-oval, very oblique at the base, having large coriaceous auricles, smooth and shining on tlie upper surface, and canescent beneath.
The normal form has double the number of leaflets, which are narrowly lanceolate, and drawn out into a long narrow point.
Nothing could be more unlike than the two forms.
There were three trees near each other, among many hundreds of the normal form, all of which appeared to have come up in a measure naturally along fence rows in an old field.
The broad shining leaflets gave the trees so marked an appearance as to attract attention from a long distance.
The}^ were seed-bearing (female) trees, as were many others of the normal form near them.
It was, therefore, a great point gained to be able to show that the case was not one of sexual variation, to which many cases of dimorphism were properlyreferred.
Another very interesting fact was that a branch of the normal form came out of one of the trees, and it was from this branch that the normal leaf now exhibited was taken.
The laws regulating these variations seemed still obscure.
On the Feeding of Dinamoeba.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that bias frequently proved to be an obstacle in tlie way of research.
In his stud}' of the rhizopods, he had repeatedly watched different kinds o^ Ama'ha for long periods with the view of ascertaining their usual mode of feeding.
Ordinary experience had prepossessed him to direct his attention to the forepart of tlie body, that is to sa}', the part in advance in the movements of the animal, as the point at which food would be taken.
He had been surprised at the rarity of the occurrence in which he had seen Amoebae swallow food when the apparent greediness of the animal was taken into consideration.
In the last number of the Popular Science Review, there is an interesting article, by Mr. P, Martin Duncan, entitled "Studies amongst Amcebsey From this he learned, from the observations of Mr. Duncan, that the Amce.bse habituall}' take their food at Avhat may be considered tiie posterior part of the body.
With this hint, he examined specimens of the curious amoeboid animal, described under the name of Dinamceba, of which he had recently obtained a good supply from the ditches of a cranberry field at Atco, New Jersey.
He had since on several occasions had the opportunity of seeing the Dinamceba take its food, wiiich was done, as indicated by Mr. Duncan, at the posterior part of the bod3% One instance appeared to him to be particular!}'
interesting, and was related as follows: — Seeing a specimen of Dinamceba with its left side in contact with a filament of the alga Bambusina Bj-ebissonii^ he was led to watch it.
On closer examination it proved that the alga entered to the left of the tail and extended through the body, causing a slight bulge of the ectosarc by its other end to the left of the head.
The JHnamccba became slightly elongated, and the alga sunk more inwardly from behind.
The former moved with an inclination to the right, causuig the alga to assume an oblique position from left to right.
The anterior end of the alga suddenly pn)truded from the body of the animal, so that this appeared to be pierced bj' it.
In this condition the alga entered the Dinamoeba to the left of the tail, and protruded at the right of tlie head.
Gradually the alga was made to assume a transverse position.
The right extremity of the alga now became depressed and the left elevated, so that the alga assumed nearly its original position, in which it appeared to perforate the left border of the animal obliquely from the tail end.
It gradually acquired a central position, penetrating the animal from tail to head.
The Dinamoeba now elongated at both ends, a third greater than its former length, extending in a fusiform manner uj^on the alga.
The animal next doubled upon itself, so that both ends of the alga approached in front and protruded side by side from the head.
One extremity of the alga then sunk within the Dinamoeba^ and subsequently the other extremity, so that the filament, about three times the length of the animal, became coiled up within it.
The observation of swallowing the Bambusina was made in the afternoon of September 15.
In the evening, several hours after the first observation, on looking at the Dinamoeba^ which had been preserved in an animalcula cage, it was observed sitting, as it were, on a large filament of the alga Didijmoprium Gremlii.
The posterior end of the animal extended as a cylindrical expansion along the alga to a greater length than the breadth of the bod^^ of the Dinamoeba^ and so closely clasped it as to contract the gelatinous envelop of the alga to little more than the thickness of the green cells.
After some time the alga suddenly broke, and the two portions were gradually bent backward and made slowly to approacli, so as to become parallel with each other.
One of the pieces was then drawn within the animal a convenient length, broken off, and completely swallowed, and this was followed by a similar movement of the other piece.
Shortly after the first rupture of the alga, when the two portions projected at an obtuse angle from the back portion of the Dinamceba, the animal contracted in length, and discharged from the right side a mass of bodies, which consisted of the separated cells of Bambm^ina, probably from the filament.it had swallowed in the afternoon.
Prof. licidy continued that the two successive ol)servations in the feeding of Dinamoeba appeared to be particularly fortunate, as the}' apparently explained certain facts in the habits of the animal.
Vinamceba had been noticed to be especially fond of the alga JDidymoprium, for it was found to be present as the principal element of tl)e food in numerous specimens.
Bambusina was less frequently found among the food contents of the animal.
The alga3 were equally abundant in the localities of the IHnamcp.ba; and, from the observations detailed, it would appear that the Didymoprium is preferred as food from the comparative ease with which its filaments are broken into pieces of convenient size for swallowing.
The observations are, moreover, interesting from their indicating discrimination and purpose in the movements of one of the simplest forms of animal life.
The movements are to be viewed as reflex in character, though resemljliugthe voluntary movements by which the most intelligent animal would prepare morsels of food of convenient form to taUe into tlie mouth.
In striking contrast were the movements, noticed on several occasions, by which an Oscillatoria obtained entrance into the empty shell of an Arcella, and there, coiled up, crept round and round incessantly.
Concretions resemhlinr) Bones.
— Prof. Leidy directed attention to some large specimens on the table which had been sent to the Academy for his inspec-tion.
They had been recently mentioned in the daily papers as bones of a large reptile found in the coalmeasures of Hazleton, Pa.
Though presenting a remote resemblance to bones, one of which especially lookecl like the coracoid of a reptile, they proved to be nothing but irregular nodules or concretions of iron ore, or limonite.
Mineralogical Notes.
— Professor Geo.
Aug. Kcenig placed on record a determination of Ankerite from the Phoenix ville tunnel.
Professor Genth mentions the occurrence of this mineral at the Phoinixville mines in curved rhombohedral crystals, but usually in yellowish-white, crNStalline, agranular masses.
An anal3'sis l)y Dr. W. P. Headden is given (.see below) (Prel.
Report on the Mineralogy of Penna., 1n75).
The specimens from the tunnel present crusts, one-quarter of an inch thick, covered with brown, welldefined rhombohedrons, whose faces do not show any curvature.
Underneath this brown crystalline surface the mineral is colorless, and possesses verj* brilliant vitreous lustre.
Small cleavage pieces are perfectl3'^ transparent.
The angle of the rhombohedral pole edge was found by the speaker = 105° 59', differing slightlv from measurements of other localities, as 106° I'i' (MoUs), and "106° 6' (Ettling).
The components of Ankerite are the carbonates of calcium, magnesium, and iron, whose rhoml)ohedral angles are respectively 105° 5', 107° 29', and 107°.
It is clear that the angle of a mixture of the three must lie between the extremes, and must occup3' a distinct relation to their respective quantities.
As those are known to vary between magnesium and iron, the angles must necessarily vary accordingly.
Sl)ecific gravity = 2.953, at 22° C. The mineral was anal^'zed at the speaker's request by his assistant, Mr. R. B. Chipnian, with the following result: — CO, = 44.56 : 44 = 1.013 molecules CaO = 28.60 : 56 = 0.510 FeO = 14.41 : 72 = 0.200 MffO = 13.03 : 40 = 0.325 100.60 yielding the empiric formula — ■ Mg,Fe,Ca,C,o03„ also — (fMg, |Fe)CaCA Dr. Headden's analj^sis (loc.
cit.)
gives — CaCOj = 50.73 : 100 = 0.5072 molecules MgCO, = 21.08 : 88 = 0.2497 FeCO,' = 27.29 : 116 = 0.2352 Insoluble = 0.22 100.21 yielding the empiric formula — MgjFe.CaioCaAo also — (^Mg, |Fe)CaC.,06 Hence, Ankerite occurs at Phoenixville in two varieties At the mine with the ratio Fe : Mg = 1:1 lu the tunnel " " Fe : Mg = 2 : 3 October 9.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty members present.
Apjoarenl Discriminative Poxoer in the Selection of Food by a Heliozoon.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that he had on several occasions observed actions in the rhizopods apparently indicating a discriminative power in the selection of food.
It was certain that they generally sv»'allowed living alga3 and animalculfe, and avoided dead ones.
He recently had observed a heliozoon eject an article, which ap|)eared to indicate discriminative power.
The heliozoon was Acanthocystis spinifera.
The genus differs from Actinophrys in being provided with siliceous rays in addition to the ordinary soft ra^'s.
The former emanate from minute disks, forming, as it were, a sort of flexible armor to the body of tlie Acanfhocystis.
Wliile examining an individual, a rapidly moving, oval, flageUate infusorium, as it w\ts supposed to be, came into contact with several of the soft ra^-s. Tiie infusorium was paralyzed; it assumed a globular shape and became quiescent.
It was gradually drawn towards the body of the heliozoon, wliich projected its armor to meet it, but quickly withdrew it again, and the heliozoon was pushed off beyond the siliceous rays.
The same movements were repeated, and then the infusorian remained outside the siliceous rays.
The objects were examined from time to time for several hours.
The infusorium was no more drawn towards the bod}' of tlie heliozoon.
After a time it projected a minute bud, which gradually extended into a tortuous tube, pi'oving the supposed infusorium to be a zoospore.
It was finally abandoned by the heliozoon, apparently as if it had been determined not to be its jjroper food.
On Helminfhophaga leucohronchialis (BreAvster).
— Spencer Trotter communicated the fact that last winter, wiiile arranging the collection of warblers {Sylvicolidse) in the museum of the Academy, he had discovered among them a specimen of Helminthophaga leucobronchiali?;.
This rare species was described b}'' Mr. Wm.
Brewster, of Cambridge, Mass., who procured the first specimen at Newtonville, Mass., in tlie spring of 1870, a description and plate of which he published in the Bulletin of the Nuttall Ornithological Club for April, 1876.
A second specimen was taken near Clifton, Delaware Co., Pa., in May, 1877, by Mr. C. D. Wood, an account of which Mr. Trotter sent to the Bulletin for July, 1877.
The one now under consideration is, therefore, the third specimen of this rare species which has been discovered.
When he found it, there was no label attached designating its species, sex, or the locality where it was procured ; but on the bottom of the stand was written "J.
C, 20 Oct. 1802," and three otlier words that were much blurred, and which he believed to be " not from Bell."
Bell is an Ornithologist of New York.
The above indicates that John Cassin (for all the birds he examined have the same J. C. written on the stands or labels) had studied the specimen.
The date he supposed to be that of its capture; and it is a curious fact tliat this specimen shoulel have been procured at least eight years before the one from which the first description was taken.
He had compared the specimen carefully with Mr. Brewster's description, also with Mr. Wood's specimen, and with these it agrees almost precisely.
As the two former were males, from its similarit}' to them, he believed this one to be a male also.
He took pleasure in adding another rare bird to the many which the Academy alread}' possesses.
October 16.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-five members present.
Mineralogical Notes — Professor Geo.
Aug. Kcenig placed on record the results of an investigation of a peculiar form of Magnetite from Magnet Cove, Ark.
The material was obtained from Dr. Lawrence through Dr. Leidy.
It occurs in nodular masses, so.neti.nes nearly spherical, with a very smooth surface which not untVequently is iridescent.
There is no evidence whatever of crvstalline form.
The fracture is very even and straight, like a cleavao-e face.
Color, black ; lustre, vivid, metallic.
It is thorou-hh' compact, and surpasses the crystallized Magnetite in hardness.
It is strongly magnetic, attracting small Iragments of itself.
At Magnet ^Cove, collectors designate it as 'rolled Titanium."
Suecific o-ravitv = 4.951 at 20° C. B.
B.
Gives reaction of Titanium with salt of phosphorus, and fuses with difficulty.
Composition — ^ Fe.O, = C4.47 AV,0, = 3.06 TiO., = 3.25 V..O; = 0.17 FeO = 26.23 ]\IiTO = 3.45 100.63 II TI This agrees perfectly with the general formula, RRO„ as follows : — FeFeO, = 84.52 MffFeO^ = 7.T2 M'^AIO, = 4.16 M^TiO^ = 3.90 MgVO, = 0.22 100.53 October 23.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-seven members present.
Remarks on Rhizopods, and Notice of a New Form.— Vvofessov Leidy remarked that, while in the Rocky Mountains last summer, he had continued his researches among the rhizopods.
He had detected many forms, but they were nearly all of the same kind he had found in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
His investigations led him to suspect that the species of fresh-water rhizopods were cosmopolite.
He had found the greatest number of species and the crreatest profusion near tlie sea level, though they were abundant" even at an altitude of 10,000 feet in the Rocky Mountains.
The most prolific localities of the fresh-water rhizopods are sphagnous swamps.
Moist sphagnum often teems with multitudes of beautiful forms.
A single drop of water squeezed from sphagnum has at times been found to contain hundreds of individuals of Hi/alospheiiia, Ncbela, Uugbjpha, etc., of different species.
Ponds and ditches in sphaonous swamps are also rich localities for other forms.
Ponds and ditches prolific in aquatic plants, in sandstone, quartzite, argillaceous, and granitic districts, have also been rich in rhizopod life.
Ponds and springs in limestone districts are exceedingly poor, which is the more remarkable when we take into consi.
'leration the exceeding abundance of rhizopods in the ocean, and the vast contribution the ocean forms have made to the limestone rocks.
Over and over again he had been disappointed in his expectation of finding rhizopods among the profusion of vegetation of some large springs in the limestone districts of our neigliboring counties.
Among the peculiar forms of rhizopods found in the West is an interesting one obtained from a pond, at an elevation of 10,000 feet, in the Uinta Mountains, "Wyoming.
It was found in association with Cyphoderia margaritacea^ which was first discovered in the Ali)s. It is also related with Cyphoderia in a manner parallel with Centropyxis as related with Arcella.
In the side view it has the same shape as Cyphoderia; but, viewed in front or behind, it presents a conical process diverging on each side of the postei'ior third.
The shell is yellow, chitinous, and incorporated with scattered particles of quartz sand.
The mouth is circular, and surrounded by a delicate, colorless zone.
The sarcode and pseudopods are the same as in Cyphoderia.
Length, 0.112 to 0.14 mm.
; breadth between points, 0.08 to 0.124 mm.
; breadth in opposite direction, 0.072 mm.
; width of mouth, 0.028 mm.
Campasous cornutus would be an appropriate name for the animal.
On Fossil Fishes.
— Prof. Leidy stated that the beautiful specimens of fossil fishes, presented this evening by Mr. Jeanes, were obtained from Bear River, Wyoming, and had been purchased by him in his recent trip west.
The}' are some of the species named in Prof.
Cope's communication to the American Philosophical Society last Jul}-.
October 30.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirt3'-three members present.
Mineralogical Notes.
— Prof. Kcenig described a mineral from Bear Creek, Colorado.
Dr. Joseph Leidy mentions Bergen's Ranch, 25 miles from Denver, as tlic more precise locality.
The mineral occurs as a crust, one centimetre thick, on earthy Limonite.
The surfiice of the ciust is manimillarv in stnicture, and a cross fractnre exiiibits banded texture.
No crj-stalline form is observable even when considerably magnified, bnt small fragments appear hyaline and transparent under the microscope.
The color is light greenish-blue, and snow-white in spots.
The mineral is friable between the fingers, and adheres slightly to the tongue.
Before tlie blowpipe the mineral is infusible, and imparts a strong green color to the flame.
With salt of phosphorus and tin or charcoal, copper reaction.
Decomposed by cold, concentrated hydrochloric acid, witli separation of floculent silica.
Yields much water in the closed tube.
Composition — SiO, = 24.96 AbO, = 38.80 Fe.,03 = 0.81 CuO = 5 40 P.,0, = 0.69 Comb.
H.,0 = 23.60 Hygrosc.
H,0 = 12.30 100.11 Supposing the copper to be present as CuSiO^, one obtains the following vevy satisfactorj' ratio: — SiO., = 21.06 ) AbOj = 34.16 ) SiO., = 3.90 CuO = 5.40 } 0.700 : : 1 666 : : 1 0.130 : : 1 0.131 : 1 The combined water gives 3 molecules respectivel}^ for the aluminum and copper silicate.
Hitherto no notice had been taken of the large percentage of hygroscopic water, whence the 4 and 6 molecules have been deduced.
The mineral is, therefore, (Al.,SiO,43H.,0)3 4(CuSiO^-f 3H.,0) AUophauc.
ClirysocoUa.
Two analyses from different jxirts of the crust gave tlie same result, and a rational relation between the two molecules (5:1) seems to exist.
C. Few Seiss, Miss E. B.
Rice, Miss Mary B.
Rice, Andrew J. Parker, M.D., J. D. Thomas, M.D., and S. H. Guilford, M.D., were elected members.
The following were elected correspondents : Sereno E.Watson, of Cambridge ; Wm.
G. Farlow, of Cambridge ; Geo.
L. Goodale, of Cambridge; John Duns, of Edinburgh; Dr. Ernst Candeze, of Liege; Dr. C. A. Dohrn, of Stettin ; Baron E. Yon Harold, of Berlin; Yicomte Henri de Bonvouloir, of Paris; Baron Maximilien de Chaudoir, of St. Petersburg; Henry W. Bates, of London; Etienne Mulsant, of Lyons ; M. A. Chevrolat, of Paris ; S. Solsky, of St. Petersburg; Alfred Preudhorame de Borre, of Bruxelles; Jules Putzeys, of Bruxelles ; Chas.
C. Parry, of Davenport, Iowa; A. Ernst, of Venezuela; G. Y.
Black, of Jacksonville, Ind.
; Pv.
J. Lechmere Guppy, of Port of Spain, Trinidad; and Edw.
Hull, of Dublin.
The following was ordered to be published: — ON A NEW SPECIES OF HELIX FEOM TEXAS.
BY WILLIAM G. MAZYCK.
Helix (Triodopsis) Henriettae, Mazyck.
Shell rimatelj' umltilicated, depressed, globose, ratlier solid, with numerous regular delicate stria?, dark brownish horn color; spire obtuse; whorls about five and a half, slightly convex; suture deeply impressed; beneath convex, smoother than above; umbilicus very deep, reaching the apex, but onl}' exhibiting the last three whorls, grooved within; body-whorl gently ascending just behind the aperture, and then suddenly and shortly deflected, very much constricted behind the peristome, with two deep exterior pits, having the space between them elevated into a prominent ridge; aperture subtriangular, peristome much thickened within and very slightly reflexed, vevy tortuous, yellowish-white, furnished with a small denticle near its upper termination and an erect lamelliform tooth, which is equal in length to about one-fifth the diameter of the base of the shell, extending from the lower end of the uppermost pit almost to the inner edge of the body-whorl ; low down in the mouth of the shell there is, between this tooth and the denticle, a large, white, tongue-sliaped, concave tooth ; and very near this, but rather lower down in the mouth of the shell, and on the base of the body-whorl, there is an oblique, stout, white tooth, which is sometimes slightly cleft on the edge.
The parietal wall, which is covered with a semitransparent callus, bears a very strong, arcuated, entering, white tooth, whose outer margins form almost a right angle.
Piam.
maj. |^; min.
^^ ; alt.
^ inch.
Habitat Eastern Texas.
Mr. Jacob Boll.
This species more nearly resembles Helix vultuosa, Gld., than anj' other Xorth American species, but differsfrom that shell in the shape and size of the umbilicus and in the form and armature of the aperture, which in vuUuosa is lunate, almost circular, and in this species is rather V-shaped ; in vultuosa the peristome, though moderately so, is decidedly reflexed, and its plane is almost entirely unbroken; in Henriettse it is very much thickened, but scarcely at all reflexed, is very tortuous, and bears on its inner margin an obtuse denticle and a long lamelliform erect 20 tooth, which are wanting in vultuosa; in Henriettse the two internal teeth are so far within the apertnre as to be seen only on looking into it, while in vultuosa they are plainly' visible from the base of the side ; in tlie latter the parietal tooth is arched upivards, and its outer margin is rounded — in Henriettse it takes the opposite direction, and its margins form almost a right angle; the deep pits behind the peristome are wanting or obsolete in vultuosa.
The species is referred to by Mr.
Bland in " Remarks," p. 116117.
November 6.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie cliair.
Thirty-one members present.
The deaths of John GouUl Anthon}and of Prof. James Orton, correspondents, were announced.
November 13.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-two members present.
A paper entitled "On the Diameters of the Incisors of Rodents," by John A Ryder, was presented for publication.
The Agricultural Ants of Texan.
— Rev.
H. C. McCook gave an abstract of a paper, in course of preparation, ui)on the Agricultural Ants of Texas, Myrmica molefaciens, Buckley (31. barbata, Smith).
He had visited Texas during the summer, and, encamping in the midst of a large number of formicaries, had given several weeks to the studj^ of these and the cutting ants.
Mr. McCook referred to the first notice of the agricultural ants by Prof. Buckle}', in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, ISt^O, and to the subsequent, much more detailed, observations of Dr. Gideon Lincecura.
Notwithstanding the doubt with which Dr. L.'s statements had been received, Mr. McCook was able to verify many of his recorded facts, to complete many, to correct some, and to add new facts to the known history of these most interesting insects.
The point chosen for study is in the neighborhood of Austin, Texas, upon the tableland to the southwest of the Colorado River and its affluent.
Barton Creek.
The soil is black and sticky, varying in depth from three feet to a few inches.
The bed rock is limestone, which crops up in striated and punctured masses.
The formicaries of the ants are ver}numerous, and are found along roads, in open prairies, in the very streets, sidewalks, gardens, and j-ards of Austin; one was even perceived in the stone-paved court of a hotel.
They are, as found upon the hills, commonly flat, circular clearings, hard and measurably' smooth, well enough described b}' Lincecum as " pavements."
A few were found with low mounds in the centre, a few inches in height and two or three in diameter.
These mounds were frequently composed of bits of gravel of one to two grains weight.
The width of the formicaries varies from twelve feet to two or three feet.
They are invariably located in open sunlight.
Yet the meridian heat of the sun is avoided, the ants ceasing work entirely at 12 M. and remaining housed until between 2 and 3 P. M. Ver}^ little work was done at night, except in cases where the nest had been disturbed.
The process of making a clearing was observed, and suggested strongly the modes of pioneers in an American forest.
'• Stumi)s" of grass remained at tlie inner edge of the clearing ; beyond these, ants were engaged cutting off the spires of grass.
Generally the head was downward, mandibles applied quite close to the roots, and the stalk yielded under a combined process of cutting, pinching, tearing, and twisting.
In one case a worker climbed to the top of the grass and gained the advantage of leverage by l^earing down.
The rank vegetation of the semi-tropical climate is kept in complete control ; clearings were found among the tall thickets of wihl sage and daisy which could not intrude upon the emmet preserves.
From each formicary diverge roads in number from thiee to seven, widest at the home terminus, and extending for many feet — sixty feet, more or less — into the surrounding herbage.
These roads are level and smooth, and in i)usy hours of the day are thronged b}' worker ants going and coming.
The mode of gathering grain was completely c)l)served, single insects having been followed from the nest to the harvesting grounds and back.
Seeds were gathered from the ground, never from the plant.
The seeds, which were collected in large quantities, were exhibited, and the report of the Botanical Section of the Academy upon the same, which had been made after careful examination by Messrs. Meehan, Burk, and Redfield, was read.
The seeds were of small Euphorbiaceous and Rubiaceous plants, Grotov^ Paspahim^ Arididastricta, and Buvhloe dactyloideii^ the common western buffalo grass.
The last two naujcd were the most numerous.
The chain of evidence that determines these ants to be true harvesters is as follows: 1st.
"Workers were seen gathering seeds and carr3-ing them into the formicaries through the central gates.
2d.
The same seeds were found in granaries within the opened formicaries.
3d.
The same seeds with the outer shell removed were found in other granaries.
4th.
The ants were found carrying out shells to the refuse Jieaps, which heai)S, as reported by expert botanists from collections, contain no i)erfect seeds among them.
Several observers, under Mr. McCook's direction, are noting the winter habits and the condition of the winter formicaries of these agriculturals, and, when these notes are complete, the entire paper will be given to the public.
The reported sowing of a crop from year to year was considered, and so far confirmed that in many cases the clearings were found to be covered b^cro[)S o^ AriHtida^ which crops were as distinctly' marked upon the clearings as a farmer's wheat or grass crop upon any particular field.
The formicaries could be recognized at a distance by the circular mass of tall ycllonneedle grass (Ainstida).
On the prairies and low land a sharp conical mound rises in the midst of a clearing more or less extensive.
Specimens brought to Mr. McCook by Dr. Leidy, from Wyoming Territory, were identified as of tlie same genus, M. occidentali^^ Crcsson.
Mr. Cresson had described the male as a separate species, Mijrmica seminigra.
Several questions which arose were answered as follows : Wh}should tiie needle-grass {Arhtida sfricfa) be planted upon the fi)rmicary clearings wlien seeds could be had all around the nest without "that troul)le ?
Evidently (if we are to suppose a planting) the saving of time and labor in harvesting thus accomplished might be a sufficient reason.
Mr. McCook was unwilling as yet to commit himself to the theory of an intelligent planting of seeds by the ants.
His ojjinion at i)resent was that the ants simply preserve growths which accidental!
}'^ arise from seeds carried out of the granaries for various reasons.
It should be remembered that onli/^a portion of the formicaries are thus covered, not one-half, perhaps one-third.
Of twenty-two registered nests (in one list) in which the details are given in his field notes, ten are reported with needle-grass crops.
This crop is usually on the margin of the clearing.
Thus (extract from Xotes, ''No.
15.
Space clear about one and a half feet diameter, needle-grass for two feet beyond on all sides 18.
Small spaee at the gate open.
A circular belt of six feet, total diameter, covered with needle-grass.
20.
Small hill; about twelve inches clear space, eight inches (each side) of needle-grass 22.
Four feet of clear space, gravel covering the space immediately surrounding the gate ; tufts of needle-grass on outer edge 2.
Two feet diameter bare ; about one foot each side covered with needle-grass 4.
Formicary four feet in diameter, with tufts of needle-grass."
This will give a fair idea of the way in which the pavements run.
How did the naturalists of the last century account for the ancient sacred, classical, and popular opinion of the harvesting powers of ants, and how did they fall into the mistake of rejecting the ancient tradition ?
The mistake was doubtless due to the fact that no harvesting ants have yet been observed in northern Europe, whose naturalists gave tone to the natural history of the last century.
The more widely extended research of vevy recent times has brought opinion back to the old channel.
The origin of the opinion was accounted for by those who rejected it by supposing that the yellowish grain-like cocoons (the "eggs" of common speech) which ants are frequentlj' seen carrying when nests are disturbed, were popularly mistaken for grains of wheat.
Is there anything like a systematic direction of these harvesting labors?
Do the queen or major-workers, for example oversee the work of the formicary?
The queen has nothing to do (apparently) l)ut replenish the population of the community.
Her life is spent, for the most part, under ground.
There aie no "oflicers" that could be distinguished.
Each ant acts with an individuality and independence of behavior that quite accurately answers to tliat oldest description of her habits — (Prov.
vi.
7) " Having no guide, overseer, or ruler."
Each worker is a law unto herself, and vet the work moves on with perfect harmony, and as if with the utmost unity and system in management.
The workermajors act constantly as sentinels, and once or twice was observed what appeared to be an effort to extend aid to harvesters in gathering seeds ; but nothing like leadership.
Mr. McCook then proceeded to describe the interior of a formicary, illustrating his remarks by various specimens preserved in plaster, plaster-casts, models, and drawings.
Each formicary has one or more gates, rarel}' more than two, sometimes three.
Sometimes two gates are found connected by a smooth, sunken track.
The gates are circular openings at the surface.
Within is a vestibule, shelving downwards less than or about 45'^ ; it is about one to two inches wide, smooth, low, one-half to one-quarter inches in height, shortly diverging in tubular galleries connecting with granaries.
Accumulations of seeds were found within half an inch of the gate, more frequently lower down.
Those described in detail were found one and a half inch from the surface.
Stripping off the soil in horizontal layers, and working carefully witli a trowel, Mr. McCook uncovered a series of oval, circular, and crescent or horseshoe-shaped rooms, quite uniforml}' ^ inch in height, but ranging to I and i inch.
Of tliese, as examples, say.
No.
1 was in diameters 3| by 4 inches ; No.
2, 3f by 3f inches; No.
3, 6 by 3 inches.
The roofs and floors were hard and smooth.
In one nest opened in a light yellowish soil, and white " adobe," the black, unctuous "soil" had been brought down ten inches, and the floor, side walls, and roof plastered therewith.
The upper granaries were covered with heaps of seeds, which must have nearly touched the roof.
Narrow gangways were left at the outer margin between grain heaps and wall.
The granaries were connected with each other by tubular galleries.
The nurseries or rooms in which the larvae and pupse were stored, were of the same character as the granaries.
One large nursery, ten inches belovv the surface, was illustrated by a model and plaster cast.
It was exposed entire by careful and extremely tedious manij)ulation with knife and trowel.
The diflicult}^ of this and similar operations was greatly' increased by the attacks of the ants, wiiose sting is quite as severe as the wasp's.
Mr. McCook prosecuted these labors with one man and sometimes two constantly engaged in brushing off the enraged insects.
The nursery was liorse-shoe-shaped, the opening toward the centre of the nest, and one of the prongs directed in the line of the gates, with which it was apparently connected.
The floor was hard, smootli, an<l plastered with the black top soil.
The nursery was nine inches across the mouth, the length of the arms five inches.
being also about three inches wide at the month, and mncli narrower, three-quai'lers of an inch at the junction.
Nothing but larvre, pupa?, and a few callow ants was found in this nursery-.
Section cuttings were made, and drawing and casts obtained.
It was found that the granaries were arranged one above another from a quarter of an inch to three inches distant.
There was a general tendency of the rooms to what ma}'^ be called floors or stories, which was stronger or more regular in some formicaries than others.
A cast and drawing showed how the rooms of each story are connected together, and the stories united with each other and tlie gates, by galleries.
There was a massing of the granaries toward the centre, and an apparent preference for one half of the formicary' space to the neglect of the other.
Excavations were made several feet in dei)tli, tlie queens, vii'gins, and males always eluding search, although the latter were in great number somewhere within the nest.
One of the men assisting at the digging, said that in sinking a well he had found these ants coming out of their "holes" fifteen feet below the surface.
Some of the general habits of the ants were described, and their means of attack and defence were referred to, their stinging organs being explained, and the mode of inflicting the wounds, as well as effects, which are very severe, and continue for a day.
In the case of children the sting is sometimes quite serious.
The universal popular name of these ants in Texas is the " Stinging Ant."
The mode of preserving the formicary from inundation by'tiie massing of the workers in the vestibule and around the gates, was observed and described.
He was not satisfied that this was the work of design, but it evidentl}^ served the purpose of partly stopping the influx of the water, not wholly.
Examples were given siiowing strong intelligence in separating white meal from arsenic, with which it had been mixed, and of the refusal of poisoned molasses.
A remarkable garnering b}' the agriculturals of a swarm of white ants, Termes Jlavipes, beaten down by a shower was described.
These insects, males and females, were seized and carried in great numbers within the formicary.
Reference was also made to the synonyma of these insects.
Two years before Prof. Buckley's description as Mijrinica molefacieyis, Mr. Frederick Smith had described a female from Mexico as Myrmica barhata.
It is probable that Mr. Smith's name will prove good, but the description, as compared with the insects, was not satisfactory.
Moreover, the descrii)tion of the supposed male in a private letter from Mr. Smith to Mr. Cresson does not at all answer to the Texas species.
Not having seen Smith's types, Mr. McCook was still in doubt, and for the present retained the name given by Buckley.
It is piobable, however, that both the generic and specific names by which the ant has so long been known, must yield, and the name stand (as recently suggested in a private letter b}'^ Dr. Forel, the distinguished author of " The Swiss Ants") Pogonor myrmex barbatus.
Smith.
However, the popular name given b^' Lincecum, "Agricultural Ants," will be permanent, except perhaps in Texas, where the people will doubtless continue to call the insects the '' Stinging Ants."
Bemarks on Ants — Prof. Leidy remarkecl that he had read Mr. Lincecum's communications on the habits of the agricultural ant of Texas with much interest, and that he was disposed to take a different view of some of his observations from the author.
He considered the clearing of a space around the nest, with the exception of a grass that grew thereon, and the collection of the seeds of the grass when ripe, all ver^' i)robable, but he suspected that the sowing of tlie seed was accidental rather than intentional.
If the grass seeds are favorite food, man}' may be accidentally droi)ped and left on the clear space in carrying them from the surrounding region to the nest, and the lost seeds germinating ma3' supply the future harvest field.
He further stated that, during his trips in the summer to the Rocky Mountains, he had observed, through the plains of western Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming, and Utah, formicaries of an ant, wliich he had suspected to be the same as the agricultural ant.
Having submitted specimens of the ant to the Rev, Dr. McCook, he was informed they pertained to a different species, the Myrmica occidentalis of Cresson.
The formicaries of this ant include a circular space from three to eighteen feet in diameter with a central cone of less than onethird tlie diameter at base, and from ten to eighteen inches high.
The circular space is usually devoid of every vestige of vegetation, rarely presenting even tlie stump of a plant.
Occasionalh', h(nvever, it retains near its boundary some grasses, usually bunches of Eriocoma or Triticum.
The space is mostly level and clear of loose soil, and if stony the pebbles are firmly impacted.
The central cone is composed externally of small loose gravel stones, carried by the ants from the interior of the nest.
The interior of the cone is composed of finer material, and is excavated into galleries.
The finer soil forming the walls of these galleries is mingled with root fibres.
These suggest the probability of being I'etained to give greater coherence to the friable soil.
The larger stones on the exterior of the cone were found by weighing to be six times heavier than the workers who carried them to their place.
The entrance to the interior of the formicaries consisted usually of one or two openings near the l)ase of the cone.
The outside of the circular formicaries are closel}^ and often densely skirted with vegetation, especially by sage bushes, Arlemesia tridentala, grease wood, Sarcobatua vermivulalus, etc.
Accidentally, Prof. L. continued, he made an observation that rendered it probable the A. occidentals^ like many other ants, fostered insects for their saccharine productions.
Noticing several ants earning what lie sni)i)osed to be large stones into their nests, on closer examination these proved to be a large speeies of Coccus.
A specimen of this insect was about the one-fourth of an inch long and the one-fifth of an inch broad, of a pale pinkish hue.
The bodj', independent of tiie head, exhibited ten segments, of which the thoracic ones possessed short limbs ending in a single, black, curved unguis.
The anterior pair of limbs were twice the size of the others.
The antennjB were fuscous and eight-jointed.
The source of the coccus was sought in the vicinity of the formicary', but not found.
Opuntia grew abundantly in the neighborhood, but no cocci were upon it.
On a Stone Axe.
— Mr. John Ford presented fifteen species of fossil land and fresh-water shells, all of the quateruaiy period, a stone axe or celt, a sample of Lignite, and a bone, belonging to the genus Ganis.
These were collected by himself and a friend in a cutting for a roadwa}' made through the outer bluff on the margin of the Mississijipi River, a short distance northwest of Alton, 111.
The axe, which is somewhat unique in form, has an especial interest, owing to the peculiar conditions attending its discover^'.
The roadway referred to is about twenty-five feet in width, forming a sort of terrace running parallel witli the river, but some fifty feet above it.
From the outer edge of this the bluff slopes to the w'ater, while the inner edge is flanked by an escarpment composed entirely of natural deposits left in .siiu by the woikmon.
In height the latter is about equal to the width of the cutting, thus making the whole vertical measurement from the present surface of the river to the top of the bluff some seventy-five feet.
It was in the face of this perpendicular wall, from three to five feet above the roadw^ay, and twenty feet below the summit, that all the specimens under consideration were found.
The presence of land and fresh-water shells may be accounted for on the theory of deposition at a time when the Mississippi, or what is more probable, a great fresh-water lake covered that portion of the country, at an elevation much higher than the present river surface.
The waves of this lake, dashing against the loftier limestone bluffs that still remain unaltered a few rods further inland, doubtless threw down myriads of land shells.
This same force brought in large quantities of fresh-water shells, and these, mingling with the others, aided in forming the vast pile of debris of which the outer bluff is principally composed.
The same Iheoiy may explain the presence of the wolf bone and Lignite, but it can reveal little or nothing in regard to the axe.
The wall referred to presented in every part a solid front, without fissure or crevice, everywhere hard and impenetrable, except by pick or crowbar, and yet, twenty feet under the surface, within this stony matrix deposited by water thousands of years ago, laid the evidence of the presence of the man of the period, a stone axe artisticallj' made and doubtless used for purposes of battle.
AYhen or how it was buried is as much a myster}' as is the histor}' of its maker.
Whether it was dropped from a canoe into the accumulating debris, or hurled from the land at a passing eneni}-, is a prol)leni which cannot be solved; but that it had lain for unnumbered centuries in the sepulchre from which it was exhumed, there are abundant reasons to believe.
^November 20.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-six members present.
Correction of ''''Notes on American Cretaceous Fossils.''''
— The following note, dated Porto Plata, San Domingo, Oct. 15, 1877, was received from Mr. Wm.
M. Gabb: — " In my paper on cretaceous fossils in the Proceedings for 1876, of which 1 have just received a cop}', I find that, b}^ some unaccountable mistake the genus VolutiJuHus., Conrad, is placed in the sub-family Vohintinae, after RosteUites (p. 290), where it does not belong, as well as in the Scajjhellijise, where it should be (p. 291), and where 1 intended it should go, as is amply proven by the first paragraph on the following page, where J say 'I am by no means convinced that Volutifusus should be separated from Scaphella,^ wdiich it follows on p. 291.
I do not pretend to explain or excuse this inadvertence, but desire to put the correction on record.
I also note the following errata: In last line of page 289 for 'bi cit.'
read 'loc.
cit.
;' page 279, line 14 from top, for 'larger' read 'longer;' page 305 under P. elliptica for 'seven' read 'my;' page 3U9, line 22 from bottom, for ^Fseiidocardia^ read ^Frotovardia.^ " November 27The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair Thirty-eight members present.
A paper entitled "On the Alkali from the vicinity of Fort Bridger, W^'oming Territory," by Edw.
Goldsmith, was presented for publication.
Eemarks on the American Species of Difflugia.
— Prof Leidy remarked that the genus Difflugia was first described by Leclerc, in 1815, and was founded on three forms, of which one is referred by Ehrcnberg to his D. proteiformi.^^ and the others to D. aciimiimta and D. spiralis.
Laraavck, "o-ithout distinction, applied the former name to the whole of them.
In his study of the fresh-water rhizopods of this conntr}^, Prof. Leidy had recognized about fourteen kinds of Difffugia^vfhliih are sufficiently common and characteristic to be worthy of distinctive names.
iS^evertheless his investigations had led him to believe, with Wallich, that through transitional forms they all merge into one species.
The well-marked varieties observed are as follows: — 1.
DiFFLTJGiA FROTEiFOUMis.
Ebrenberg.
This name, the oldest and first applied by Lamarck, is used with rather uncertain signification.
It was suggested that it should be restricted to the variety having its shell spheroidal, ovoidal, or subpyriform, w-ith circular transverse section and with the mouth circular and not crenulated.
2.
D. PTRiFORMis.
Perty, Carter, WalHch, Ehrenberg.
3.
D. ACUMINATA.
Ehrenberg.
4.
D. coMPRESSA.
Carter.
5.
D. ENTOCHLORIS.
Like the latter, but with the fundus of the shell surmounted by from one to three obtuse processes.
Sarcode green.
Is it IJ.
mitrata, Wallich; or D. triangulata, Lang.?
6.
D. URCEOLATA.
Carter.
D. lageniformis, "Wallich ; D. amphoi'a, Leid}'.
7.
D. OLLA.
Like the latter, but provided with several nipple-like processes to the fundus.
8.
D. CORONA.
Wallich.
9.
D. LOBOSTOMA.
Mouth 3 to 12 lobed, spineless.
D. t7-icuspis, Carter; D. oblonga, Fresenius; JD.
crenulata^ Leidy.
10.
D. GLOBULARis.
WalHch.
Exclusive of tiie varieties.
11.
D. CIJATERA.
Minute, goblet shaped, with ovoid bod}-, and wide c^dindrical throat.
12.
D. VAS.
Resembling D. j^yriformis, but with the neck narrowly constricted from the body.
13.
D. SPIRALIS.
Ehrenberg, Bailey, Fresenius, etc.
14.
D. MARSupiFORMis.
Wallich.
Including the variet}D. cassis, Wallich.
In the Trans.
Acad.
Sciences, Berlin, 1871, Ehrenberg gives a list of upwards of one hundred named species of Difflagia, and later he described eight others.
Tlie list, lioAvever, includes most other related genera, except Arcella, so that if all were excluded except those pertaining to DiJJlugia in its restricted sense, the number of species would he considerabl}^ reduced.
It is remarkable that the long list includes less than half the species above named, nearly all of which appear to be very common.
Further, most of those of our list mentioned in Elirenberg's list are the least characteristic of the series.
None of those named by I]hrenberg are suggestive of the forms called D. urceolata, D. olla, and D. corona.
Manj' of Ehrenberg's forms are badl}' figured and imperfectly characterized, and his lists appear greatly extended by the same things having been described over and over again under different names.
In Wallich's able papers on fresh-water rhizopods, referring to forms from Bengal, the Himalayas, Greenland, Labrador, Nova Scotia, and England, there are indicated about a dozen si)ecies of Difflugia, in the restricted sense in whicli the genus is now viewed, and the present list includes all of these except, at most, two.
The Aeronautic Flight of Spiders.
— Eev.
H, C. McCook remarked that October 25, 1877, was a warm daj', with a soft wind from the west; just such an autumn da}^ as would tempt young spiderlings to essay their aerial trips.
The point of the following observations was the fields back of the " Presbj'terian Home for Widows," in the suburbs of I'hiladelphia.
Stooping low, and glancing along the meadow, tbe eye caught the sheen of mAM'iads of fine silken filaments glistening in the sunlight.
The tops of the grass spires, and the bushy heads of tall weeds were netted together hy innumerable threads, and from man^' points of the same, like filaments were streaming out at various lengths into the air.
Numerous small spiders, chiefly orbweavers, the young of Tetragnatha extenna., were rising from these plants, and sailing off over the field.
But the finest exhibition of the aeronautic flight was seen along the post and rail fence which divides the meadow.
The tops of the i)Osts were the fixvorite spots, and upon all of these clusters of 3'oung wolf spiders {Lycosidse) were gathered, sometimes eight or ten in a group.
The purpose in choosing these elevated spots is quite apparent, the breeze being much stronger there than close to the surface of the earth, and consequently affording much better facilit}' for flight.
The presence of a delilierate and wise volition is all the more evident from the fact that the Lycoaidse are ground spiders, and are rarely found in such positions as the above.
They had certainlymounted to the top of the fence with the settled purpose of taking advantage of the stronger breeze, and the better "send off" which the superior height afforded.
He found that the threads, spread out by spiderlings on the grass stalks, which floated quite lazily, when the stalks were broken off and lifted higher, immediately fluttered off' briskly, and soon carried the little arachnid away with them.
Fortunately, the posts suited the observer's convenience quite as much as tlie spiders', and be could easily notice the methods of the miniature balloonists.
The very top of the post was generally' chosen as the point of ascent.
The first position was to turn the face in the direction from wliich tlie wind was Mowing.
Then tlie abdomen was elevated to an angle of about 45^, and, at the same time, the eight logs were stiftened, tlius pusiiing the bod^^ upward.
In order to permit tiiis movement, the claws were brought in somewhat, but not beneath the body, so that when the legs were stiffened the body stood high above the surface.
From the spinnarets at the apex of the abdomen a single tliread was exuded, and rapidl}'^ drawn out by the breeze, until, by reason of its delicacy, it was lost to eyesight.
Four, five, even six feet of the line would at times be in view.
Gradually the legs were inclined in the direction of tlie breeze, and the joints straightened out The foremost ])air of legs sank almost to the level of the post; and these especially, but indeed all the legs, and the entire attitude of the creature, presented the apjjcarance of an animal resisting with utmost force and tension of muscles the effort of some superior i)Ower to snatch it away.
Suddenly and simultaneousl}^ the eight claws were unloosed, and the spider mounted with a sharp bound into the air, and went careering away across the meadow, at a rate more or less rapid according to the velocity of the wind.
The utmost care was used to determine whether in this upward bound the volition of the spider had any further agency than the simple unclasping of the feet from the post.
Owing to the extreme difficulty of such an observation, he could not speak with absolute confidence, but was able to satisfy his own mind that the aeronauts always vaulted upward and clear of the post at the moment of releasing their hold.
That this was so in many cases, at least, he could hardly be mistaken.
A similar action was frequently observed among the spiders before the final flight.
Something was noticed a little like the frolicsome pranks of kittens or lambs.
One would rush up to another, who thereupon would immediately change position, either by running or quickly vaulting to another part of the post.
At times tiie leaf) would be made away from the post, but the buoyancy of the thread which had been exuded being insufficient to overcome the weight of the spider, instead of rising into the air, the creature returned to the post, or struck upon the adjoining rail.
In these and similar movements, Mr. McCook was able to detect distinctly the vaulting action of the spider, and the eye, being thus familiarized with the movement, was less liable to be deceived in the more difficult observation of the quick spring at the time of the aerial flight.
The posts and part of the rails adjoining were covered with threads adhering to the wood, and streaming out into the air.
These were the result, in part, of the feints at flight just referred to ; but were partly owing to another cause.
The spiders, previous to flight or vaultino-, attached themselves to the post in the manner common to most of their order.
The apex of the abdomen was thrust down upon the surface, and the liquid silk at the same time exuded from the spinnarets was thus caused to adhere thereto.
As the creature moved awa}^ the thread was run out into line and gave the spider a firm attacliment.
It was a question whether this anchorage is alwa3's made previous to flight, and whether the thread is cut immediately before the ascent?
The observations made all pointed to an affirmative answer; but the matter was not positively settled.
The attempt was made to follow some of the aeronauts be3'ond the point of ascent.
The difficulty of getting the ol)ject in position relative to the sun favorable for such observation, the motion of the air which carried most of the spiders upward, as well as the rapidity of the flight, frustrated man}' attempts.
A position was finally taken beside one of the posts of the bars, which, being opened, gave a point of observation with the back to the sun, the eye upon the object, and a fair opportunity to follow it without tiie delay of leaping over a high fence, which before had been between the observer and the course of the spider before the wind.
Fortune favored patience, and at last a spider took fliglit in a line which was little higher than the face.
Following the arachnid at a moderate run, with the eye held closely upon it, it was observed that the position of the body was soon reversed, that is, the head was turned in the direction toward which the wind was blowing, instead of toward the point from which it blew, as befoi'e the ascent.
Thus the long thread which streamed out above the aeronaut inclined forward, and at the top was in advance of its head.
It was also observed that the legs were spread out, and that they liad been united at the feet by delicate filaments of silk.
The action by which this si)inning work was accomplished was not noticed, owing to the smallness of the creature, the rapidity of its movements, and the difficult}^ of such an exceptional mode of observation.
But the fact was noted.
The reason naturall}' suggested for it is the increased buoyancy resulting from the increased surface thus offered to the resistance of the air.
The spider was followed for a distance of eighty feet, when it gradually settled downward upon the meadow.
Before, or rather during this descent, a small, wliite, floss}ball of silk was seen accumulating at the mouth of the spider, which, with the peculiar motion of the forefeet, palps, and mandibles, at once suggested the drawing in of a tliread.
This behavior is not infrequent with spiders under other circumstances ; but it became especially interesting at that moment, for at once it suggested an act of volition on the part of the lycosid, b}' which it, in a measure at least, might control its descent.
Evidently the shortening of the overhanging thread operated like the furling of sails upon a vessel, and decreasing the motion of the spider, increased the influence of gravity upon the bocl_v, which tlius sank toward the ground.
At the same time, the diminution of surface of the thread above, and the increase of bulk at the mouth, decreased the bnoyanc}^ of the whole, and allowed the creature to fall.
Exactl}' the same effect was thus produced b}^ the spider-aeronaut, and by a strikingl}' analogous mode, as the human aeronaut accomplishes when he contracts the surface of his balloon by causing the inflating gas to escape.
Some observations were made at the same time upon the aerial flights of several species of small orbweavers.
These were stationed upon the tall grasses and weeds, from which innumerable cords of spider-silk were streaming, and upon which similar threads were twisted and meshed b}^ the eddies of the wind, and the passing of the spiderlings from point to point.
The attitude of most of these was one of expectation.
Only two were observed in actual flight, and one of these ^fas assisted.
The nearness to the ground and the shelter of the surrounding herbage, ma}^ have retarded the process.
However, this greater deliberateness is quite in harmony with the phlegmatic orbweavers, just as the energy of the Lycosidse in mounting the fence, and their haste to be off, is characteristic of that group, who are, indeed, in their vigorous, stirring activities, quite typical Americans.
The little orbweavers were hanging u))on the lower part of the floating strings near the point of attachment to the grass.
Their backs were downward and their heads outward or toward the free end of the thread.
The first, second, and fourth pairs of legs were stretched along the thread, and the third and shortest pair were held otf, curved, tlie feet apparently united to the main thread by taut filaments.
This position, so far as could be determined, was maintained after flight.
In some cases a series of two or three ]Kifrs or pellets of floss were gathered around the thread between its free end and the spiderling.
They were generally cone-shaped, the apex toward the spider.
In form the}were not unlike the pellets wdiich one used to see gathering upon the roll of wool as it passed from the fingers of our maternal ancestors into the whirling " flyers" of an old-fashioned spinning wheel.
Perhaps the\maj' have been wrought b}' a similar process, the twisting of the loose thread through the action of the wind, and the counteraction of the spider.
The above observations were the most complete and satisfactory which Mr. McCook had been able to make, but he referred, in further illustration and confirmation of these, to the results of observations and experiments of several previous 3'ears.
In the closing days of October, if the weather have the usual mildness of that period, these aerial flights may be seen from almost any open spot of country-side.
The 29th of October, 1875, was especially remarkable for the exhibition of this habit.
All the young of the spider-tauna seemed to be afloat.
It was like the simultaneous outbreaking among our children of the annual fury for special sfames, marbles, tops, jmnping rope or hoop.
The air was filled with floating filaments of spinning-work.
Passing along the public squares of Philadelphia, Mr. McCook arrested and examined some of these ; the prevalent, indeed it might be said, the unvarying type, was the single thread, long, with a flossy tuft of irregular form, but commonly hammock-shaped, at or near the middle of the line.
A small dipterous insect was found entangled upon one of these threads.
Fairmount Park was filled with these excursionists.
All day long the filaments were floating across the Schuylkill River, entangling with the decks and smoke-stacks of passing steamboats, and with the persons of passengers and crews.
One of the latter caught a number of the threads, on which he found small spiders, and on three threads little flies.
The next day Mr. McCook saw some of these attenuated balloons float across the river at a height of from 60 to 70 feet, and entangle with trees upon the high bluff.
The temperature, however, had fallen several degrees, and comparatively few of the aeronauts were afloat.
The floating filaments while in motion preserved generally a crescent or horse-shoe shape, the " horns" or forks nearly equal in length or not greatly unequal, and ]jointed toward tiie direction of the wind.
At or near the point of curvature or divergence was the puff of floss or " basket" as it miglit, perhaps, be called.
Mr. McCook, in conclusion, referred to experiments which he had made afield and from his stud^'-window with young spiders, particularly the young of Agalena ncevia,, the speckled tubeweaver.
When let loose into the air from the finger-tip, the spiderlings floated out by a single thread which was alwa3'S and instantly first attached to the finger.
At first, the head was outward, the abdomen being toward the hand, from the apex of which the long superior spinnerets diverged.
Presently the little creature turned and cast out a thread behind, when, if permitted, it would usually clamber up the original tiiread to the finger.
When this was broken off", the spider, seated midway of the two filaments, floated off and outward, and was lost to sight.
Again, by an eddy of the air, the thread would be thrown backward and upward and catch against the wall upon which tlie little vo3-ager would anchor.
At other times, much to his surprise, after the tliread had been quite lost to view, and the s[)ider was supposed to be far away upon its flight, it would descend, as from the clouds, and send out its silken grapnels against the observ'er's cheek or nose.
The will of the little spider seemed to have no control over these movements, which apparently were always wholly at the mercy of the wind.
However, the manner of accomplishing the aerial flight by means of the buoyanc}' of a single tliread, or rather of tvvo threads united at or near the middle, was quite in accord with the methods above described.
Reference was also made to the remarks of other observers which were compared with those here given.
A. H. Franciseus, Henry Pemberton, Jr., Henry Cope Haines, Oswald J. Heinrich, and Wm.
R. Wharton were elected members.
Dr. H. Hallowa}^, of Laporte, Ind.
; Dr. Robt.
Wiederslieim, of Freiburg i.
B.; Carl Semper, of Wiirzburg; Chas.
Brongniart, of Paris ; and George Bowdler Buckton, of Weycombe, Haslemere, England, were elected correspondents.
The following was ordered to be printed ; — 21
