NOTES ON THE NORTH AMERICAN CARIDEA IN THE MUSEUM OF THE BY J. S. KINGSLEY.
The following paper is merely preliminary to a proposed monograph of the North American shrimps.
I would here return thanks to Prof. S. I. Smith, of Yale College, for many favors received.
CRANGONIDiE.
CRANGON Fabricius.
Crangon vulgaris Fabr.
I find this species in collections made by Dr. Packard at Fort Macon, X. C. I should be inclined to call the Steiracrangon Allmanni of Kinahan (Proc.
Ro}-.
Irish Acad.
18()2, vii.
p. '71,pl.
iv.)
as this species, there being no constant character to separate them ; but Rev.
A. M. Norman, in the Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science for 1868, p. 265, pronounces them unquestionablj' distinct.
The onl}characters given by Kinahan for the separation are the sulcation of the sixth and seventh abdominal segments, a feature which I have found in undoubted specimens of C. vulgaris from our own coast.
Nor can the bathymetrical distribution, mentioned b3' Norman, affect the case, as G. vulgaris is common in seventy fathoms.
I am also inclined to consider C. nigricauda Stra., C. nigromaculata Lockington, and C. alaskensis Lockington, as G. vulgaris, but will not decide until the examination of larger series of specimens from the west coast.
Dekaj' (N. Y. Fauna, Crustacea, p. 25) has this astounding statement concerning this species (under the name G. 7carinata Say), " eyes sessile, and resting on the concave surface of the peduncle of the inner antenna?."
HIPPOLYSMATA Stimpson.
T Hippolysmata cubensis.
Hippolyte cubensis, Von Martens, Wiegmami's Archiv fiir Naturgeschicbte, 1873, p. 136, pi.
v. f. 14.
I refer this with a doubt to this genus, though Dr. Y. Martens gives nothing in regard to the mandibles and external raaxillipeds.
The genus Hijypolyfe is northern in its range.
7 Hippolysmata intermedia, n. s. CanipMX with tiiileniml and luancliioHtegal spines, rostrutn horizontal, L'Xtendinj^ to l)asc of the third joint of antennuhir pedunele, sliorter than in 7/.
wurdemanni Stm., aixl longer than in //.
cuben^ia; the earina extending back to the posterior portion of the oarapax ; six or seven toothed above, three or four teeth being on the carapax, and three on the rostrnra ; below with three teeth, the first being directly under the last on the upper margin.
Antennuhir si)ine extending slightly beyond the basal joint of peduncle ; third joint two-thirds as long as preceding, flagella nearly as long as tlie body, the outer thickened for a fourth of its length, and exhibiting traces of a division, A spine on the outside of the basal joint of antennfe, antennal scale narrow, regularly tapering, extending over half its length beyond the rostrum; flagellum longer than the body.
External maxillipeds elongate, pediform, extending beyond the antennal scale, the carpal joint reaching the tip of antennal peduncle.
Feet of first pair reaching the extremity of the antennal scale, fingers half as long as palm; hand, carpus, and meros subequal.
Feet of second pair elongate, filiform, carpus raultiarticulate.
Telsou narrow, tapering, the apex acute.
Length.
Carapax.
Rostrum.
2d pair.
25 mm.
6 mm.
3 mm.
19 mm.
Fort Jefferson and Tortugas, Fla., AV.
II.
Jacques.
This species differs from H. cubensis in the longer rostrum and carapax, the antennular flagella, and in the fifth pair of feet not being longer than the others ; from //.
ivurdemcmni in the shorter rostrum and the arrangement of the rostral teeth, and the presence of a branchiostegal spine.
TOZEUMA Stimpson.
Tozeuma carolinensis, n. s. Elongate, compressed, carapax with sub-ocular and branchiostegal spines; rostrum narrow, slender, curving upwards very slightl}', a half longer than the carapax, not extended as a carina on the carapax, a small spine on each side at the base; upper margin smooth, rounded, lower with many small teeth.
Basal spine of antennulte slender, extending be^'ond the first joint of the peduncle; first joint as long as the two following which are t-qual ; flagella short, the upper and outer the larger, neither reaching the tip of antennal scale.
Basal joint of antennjB with a small spine beneath ; antennal scale narrow, lanceolate, nearl}' as long as carapax, peduncle short, flagellum a third as long as the body without rostrum.
External maxillipeds short, last joint twice as long as the preceding one.
Feet all short, first pair very short, stout, carpus with a spine above, hand inflated, fingers curved, closing completely*.
Feet of second pair slender, reaching to the tip of antennal peduncle, meros joint as long as the first two joints of the carpus, first joint of carpus as long as the other two, third a half longer than the second ; hand hirsute, as long as the last articulation of the carpus.
Remaining feet simple; dactjli curved, propodi spinulose beneath.
Dorsum of abdomen smooth; sixth segment as long as the two i^receding; telson elongate, slender, acute.
Length.
Carapax.
Rostrum.
51 mm.
10 mm.
15.5 mm.
Fort Macon, N. C, A. S. Packard, Jr.
This species differs from T. lanceolatum Stm., from China, the only other species that I know of, in the shortness of the rostrum and antenme, the want of spines on the dorsal surface of the abdomen, etc.
ATYIDiE.
ATYA Leach.
Atya punctata, n. s. Compressed, carapax and abdomen everywhere thickly punctate, rostrum short, depressed, cariuate above and below, tip acute, lateral angles obtuse, the sulci separating the median from the lateral carinse deep.
Antennular spine falling short of base of second joint, acute ; peduncle granulate above, third joint twothirds as long as second ; outer flagellum shorter than the inner, inner three-fourths as long as carapax.
A spine on the basal joint of antennae beneath; antennal scale longer than antennular peduncle, extremity ovate, external margin nearly straight, with a short acute spine.
External maxillipeds slender, extending bej'ond the antennal peduncle.
Feet of the first two pairs subequal ; meral joints compressed, longitudinall}sulfated.
Feet of the third pair cylindrical, stout, covered with tubercles interspersed with hairs.
These tubercles on the upper surfaces show a tendency to arrange themselves in longitudinal rows, and on the carpus become some92 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18Y8what spliiiforni.
Iscliimn Uhlh' times as long as nicros, mcros and carpus of the same lengtli, tlie loriner being somewhat tlie stouter ; dactylMS short, stout, smootli aljove, a single row of spines beneath, apex acute.
Fourth pair of feet resembling tlie thir<l in ornamentation and proportions of joints, but shorter and more slender.
Fifth pair still shorter and more slender, carpus twice as long as meros and sligiitl^' longer than tl)e ischium ; otiurwise not differing from tlie two preceding.
Telson, with the sides straiglit, extremity truncate ; a slight sulcus above, which, in the posterior portion, is divided by a median carina ; on each side a row of aculei.
Length.
Carapax.
Third pair feet.
51) ram.
18.5 ram.
28 ram.
TTayti, Dr. J).
F. Weinland.
This species differs from A. scabra in the longi-r feet of the first pair, the three last pair more slender, the more tuberculate character of the ornamentation, and in the proportionate length of the joints.
The second abdominal segment is also more dilated.
From the short descrii)tion of Alya occidentalis Newport, in the thorax and al)domen being punctate; from the A. tenella Smith, in tlie larger feet of tlic third pair; and from A. i-ivalis in the more obtuse lateral teeth of the rostrum.
Atya occidentalis Newport, Annals and Magazine of Nntural History, 1847, vol.
six.
p. 159.
Von Martens, Archiv fur Naturgeschiclite, 1871, p. 185.
Specimens in the museum of the Peabod}Academy' which I refer to this species differ from the foregoing species in having the distal portion of the basal joint of antennular peduncle armed with short bristles or spines; inner flagellum three-fourths the length of carapax.
Legs of third pair much larger than tlie others; raeral, carpal, and propodal joints tuberculate, without hairs ; meros longer than three succeeding joints, rounded, triangular in section; carpus and propodus subequal; dactylus short, claw-like, basal portion greatly thickened and armed with small spines beneath.
Fourth pair with meros as long as carpus and 2:>ropodus; carpus shorter than propodus, dactylus as in third pair.
Meros and carpus each with a single spine beneath.
Meros and propodus of fifth pair subequal; propodus a half longer than carpus, Telson as in A.
7'iualis Smith.
Length.
Third pair of feet.
57 mm.
31 ram.
Whether this be the A. occidentalis of Newport, cannot be determined from his short description, but it presents no conflicting characters.
ATYOIDA Randall.
Atyoida glabra, n. s. Compressed, rostrum slender, sliort, extending slightly beyond the base of the second joint of antennular peduncle, liorizontal, rounded above, not angulated on the sides, no lateral carinte ; below with two to four teeth near the tip.
Peduncle of antennie unarmed, last two joints nearly equal ; outer flagellum about half as long as the carapax ; inner more slender, three times as long as the outer.
Antennal scale longer than the antennular peduncle, extremity ovate, outer margin straight and armed with a small, stout, acute spine ; flagellum nearly as long as the bodj-.
External maxillipeds slender, pediform, extending a little bej'ond tiie peduncles of the antennulffi.
First two pairs of feet smooth and naked; the first as long as the maxillipeds, the second extending to the tip of the antennal scale.
Meral and carpal joints of remaining pairs armed below with spines ; dactyli short, stout, also with spines.
Two posterior pairs subequal.
Abdomen smooth, compressed, the sides being higher than is usual in this and allied genera.
Telson narrow, sides straight, extremity arcuate-truncate, with numerous small spines ; dorsal surface without a furrow, but furnished with rows of small aculei.
Height of abdomen.
5.3 mm.
Polvon and Corcuera, west coast of Nicaragua, J.
A. McNiel.
PALiEMONID^.
ALPHETIS Fabr.
Alpheus normanni.
Aljiheus iiffinis Kingsley, Bulletin U. S. Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories, 1878, vol.
iv.
p. 195.
The specific name affinis being alread\' preoccupied in this genus (Guise, Annals of Natural History, 1854, 2d series, vol.
xiv.
p. 275), it is necessary to apply a new one to the Panama form, and I therefore dedicate it to the Rev.
A. M. Norman, of Engl;ind, who called my attention to the oversight.
Length Height Length.
of Carapax.
of Carapax.
22 mm.
6.5 mm.
3.2 mm.
PANDALTJ8 Leach.
PandaluB franciscorum, n. s. L'arai)ax with u minute pubescence; antennal and brancliiostegal spines acute; rostrum a fiftii longer than the carapax, extending a fourtli its length beyond the antennal scales, considerably recurved, ten or eleven teetli aliove, of which five are on the carapax, and the remainder on the basal jiortion of the rostrum ; distal half of the rostrum above smooth, the apex being minutely bifid or trifid ; below with seven to nine teeth, the posterior 1)eing the largest.
Third joint of antennular peduncle a third longer than the preceding ; flagella about as long as the carapax.
IJasal joint of anteniiiu with a s})ine on the outside, and anotlier below; antennal scales long and proportionately narrower than in P. borealis Kroyer ; flagellum longer than the body.
External maxillipeds falling short of the extremity of the antennal scale.
Second pair of feet unequal, the shorter extending further forward than the external maxillipeds.
Posterior pairs stout, armed with spines below.
Fifth and sixth abdominal segments with a spine at the infero-posterior angle.
Telson narrow, a shallow furrow on its upper surface, apex obtusely triangular.
Length.
Carapax.
110 mm.
52 mm.
San Francisco, Cal., W. G. W. Harford.
THOR,' nov. gen. Carapax with antennal spine, rostrum short, toothed above ; antennulaj biflagellate, outer branch very stout.
Mandibles without palpi, bifurcate, apical process narrow ; proximal process stout with one acute and one obtuse tooth, and a pubescence of minute curved hooks, reminding one of the basal joints of the limbs of Limulus.
f]xternal maxillipeds pedlform, exopodite present.
Feet of the first pair short, stout ; of the second elongate, slender ; carpus five annulate.
Telson elongate, triangular.
This genus differs from all the Alpheinse with which I am acquainted in the absence of mandibular palpus, and from the Palscmoninse in the relative size of the first two pairs of thoracic feet, and in having the carpus of the second pair annulate. '
Thor, a Scandinavian deity.
Tlior floridanus, n. s. Carapax with a small antennal spine; rostrum shorter than the eyes, five toothed above, the first being over tlie orbits, beneath smooth and rounded.
Antennulae with basal joint large, basal spine long, acute, reaching nearly to third joint; second and third joints ver3' short, the second with a slender, acute spine on the outside.
Inner flagellum slender, slightl}' longer than the basal joints; outer about as long as the basal joints, stout, ciliated on the apex and inner margin.
Antennse with a spine on the basal joint, antennal scale reaching as far as the outer branch of antennular flagellum, its inner margin slightly concave, flagellum half as long as the body.
Mandibles robust, apical process with five terminal teeth.
External maxillipeds slender, pediform, reaehino' the tip of antennal scale, the penult joint the shortest, antepenult three, and last joint four times as long as the penultimate, the last joint terminated with slender spines.
First pair of feet short, stout, raeral and carpal joints subequal, the latter with minute spines on the inner margin ; hands subc3-lindrical, the dactyli occup3dng two-fifths their length.
Second pair of feet elongate, filiform,.carpus five annulate, third and fourth joints the shortest, equal, fifth, second, and first increasing in length in the order given, the first being as long as the third and fourth togetlier; hand as long as the third and fourth articulations of the carpus, with the fingers occupying two-fifths of its length ; meral joint as long as the first four articulations of tlie carpus.
Dactyli and distal portions of the propodi of posterior pairs of feet spinulose beneath.
Telson elongate, triangular, apex truncate, spined.
Length.
Carapax.
13 mm.
3.9 mm.
Ke}' West, Florida, A. S. Packard, Jr. PONTONIA Latreille.
Fontonia domestica Gibbes, Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 1851, iii.
p. 196.
In addition to the brief description of Gibbes, I would add the following characters, derived from specimens in the collection of the Boston Society of Natural History from the Bahamas (Dr. H. Brj'ant).
Antennal spine short, acute ; rostrum extending nearly' to* last joint of peduncle of antennulae.
Third joint of antennular peduncle but slijijlitly louLcer tli:in tlie sccoml; Ihi^ella very sliorl, the outer l)r:iiicli the longer and stouter, basal spine short, obtuse.
Antennal scale broad, extending as far as antennular |)ednnele ; exlii-mity areuate-t runcate.
Feet of the first pair slender, carpus a half longer than tiie hand.
Palm of the second pair a half longer than the fingers; tlnunb with two teeth, finger with only one, points of fingers crossing.
Telson twice as long as broad, margins slightly arcuate as in P. mar(jarita^ Smith.
Length.
Carapax.
26 mm.
10.4 mm.
ANCHISTIA Dana.
Anchistia americana, n. s. nostrum rather broad, nearl}' reaciiing the extremity of the antennal scale, upper margin straight, seven to nine toothed, above the first tooth more remote from the second than the second from the third, two to tliree teeth below.
Branchiostegal and hepatic spines present.
]3asal joint of antennuhc broad, as long as the two following which are equal.
Upper and outer flagellum shorter and stouter than its fellow, and bifid for about a fourth of its length ; inner and longer flagellum about as long as the pe<luncle.
Basal joint of antennjB with a spine on the outside, antennal scale lanceolate, extremity rounded ; flagellum as long as the bod}'.
Feet of the first pair slender, elongate, the middle of carpus reaching the tip of the antennal scale ; meros and carpus equal, hands about two-thirds the length of the carpus, fingers shorter than palmar portion.
Second pair of feet \Qvy elongate, resembling those of the proposed genus Macrobrachium Spence Bate, being longer than the whole body ; meros very slightly longer than the carpus, carpus al)Out half as long as the hand, the distal portion enlarged, hand cylindrical, fingers slender, somewhat curved downwards, not completely closing, with a few small teeth.
Remaining feet slender, the posterior pair reaching the extremity of the rostrum.
Telson narrow, triangular, truncate, terminated with bristles.
Length.
Carapax.
Second pair of feet.
20 mm.
4.5 mm.
25 mm.
Key West, Florida, A. S. Packard, Jr.
This species quite closely resembles the description of Palsemon Jiuvialis Streets, from the fresh waters of Mexico.
PAL^MONETES Heller.
Falsemonetes paludosa.
Ilippolyte paludosa Gibbes.
Pro.
Amer.
Assoc, 1851, p. 107.
Pukemonetes exiUp)es Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum Nat.
Hist.
1871, X. p. 130.
Smith, Rep. U. S. Fish Commission, 1872-3, p. 641, pi.
i., f. 1.
Forbes, Bulletin Illinois Museum Nat.
Hist.
1876, No.
1, p. 5 and 20.
I believe the species described b}' Stimpson to be the one mentioned previously b}^ Gibbes, especially since the description of this author agrees, as far as it goes, with specimens of P. exilijDes from various localities, that it comes from the fresh waters of South Carolina, from whence Stimpsou's types were i)rociired.
Professor Gibbes sa^'s, " The specimens were not quite i)erfect, liaving lost some of their feet and antennse," which Avould explain PENEID2B.
SICYONIA H. Milne Edwards.
Sicyonia dorsalis, n. s. Bod_v small, slightly compressed, carapax minutely punctate.
Dorsal crest of the carapax with a tooth at al)out the middle, and a second near the anterior border.
Hepatic spine slender, antenna!
shorter and stouter.
Rostrum hoiizontal, short, extending slightly beyond the eyes and nearly to the second joint of antennular peduncle, three-toothed above, extremity acute, below entire.
First joint of peduncle of antennula terminating exteriorly in a spine, second three times as long as the third ; flagella shorty hardly equalling the last two joints of peduncle.
Antennal scale broad, regularly tapering, as long as autennular peduncle.
External maxilliped falling short of the extremity of antennal peduncle.
Feet slender, round ; those of the third pair reaching slightly further than the external maxillipeds.
Abdomen sharplj^ carinate above, sides punctate, sculptured, protuberant parts roimded.
Third to sixth segments with a spine at the posteroinferior angle.
Telson narrow, acute, with a shallow groove on the dorsal surface.
Length.
Carapax.
Rostrum.
38 mm.
9.5 mm.
3 mm.
^ Fort Jefferson, Fla., Lieut.
W. H. Jacques, U. S. N. Is quite difTercnt from the two species S. hreinroatria Stii).
{S. crislata Saussuie), ami S. laevigata, Stin., before known from this coast.
PENEUS Lutieille.
Peneus brevirostris, n. s. ('oin|iic'sso(l, sutures of carapax well marlted, carina with a sulcus on each side extending nearly to the posterior margin of the carapax; rostrum short, liorizontal, apex a little depressed, scarcely exceeding tiic e3'es, ten-toothed al)Ove, of which the first four are on the carapax itself, distal fourth smooth; below wiili two teeth near the tip.
Flagella of antennulie very short.
Antennal scale about as long as antennular peduncle, laminate ])ortion extending beyond the spine at the antero-lateral angle; flagellum longer than the body, spines at the base of the first two pairs of feet slender.
Third pair of feet the longest, extending to the apex of the antennal scale.
Abdomen com|)ressed, fourth to sixth segments with a doreal median crest.
Telson short, regularly tapering to an acute tip, a deep and narrow longitudinal furrow above.
Inner caudal lamella longitudinalljl)isulcate.
Length.
Carapax.
Rostrum.
42 mm.
10 mm.
5 mm.
Estero at Realijo, W. Coast of Nicaragua (salt water), J.
A. McXiel.
March 5, 1878.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fort3'-onc persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication : — "Recovery of all the Faculties in a Pigeon from which the Cerebral Hemispheres had been removed."
By J. H. McQuillen, M.D.
"The Electric Constitution of the Solar System."
By Jacob Ennis.
A Hippopotamus Tusk.
— Prof. Leidy stated that in the Mozambique Collection of the International Exhibition, he had noticed a hippopotamus tooth remarkable for its size.
It was an inferior canine, with a spiral turn, apparently from impeded growth, perhaps due to the loss of the opposing tooth.
It measured 42 inches long in the spiral.
The insertion was 16 inches, and the diameter 4 inches.
On Amceha.
— Prof. Leidy remarked that the first notice of an Amoeba was of a large species, described by Rosel, under the name of P7-otei(S, in the Insecten-Belustigung, Nurnberg, 1T55 It was called by Linnseus Volvox chaos and Chaos protheus, and by Pallas Volvox proteus, a.n(\ subsequently byMiiller Proteus diffluens.
As the latter generic name was preoccupied, Bor}^ called the animal Amiba.
Ehrenberg, in the Infusionsthierclien, describes a small species as Amop.ha diffluens, and refers all those previously described to the same.
His supposed new and large species, which he describes as Amceha princeps, is really the same as Rosel's Proteus.
The true name of this should be either Amoeba chaos or Amoeba proteus, the former according to strict rules of zoological nomenclature, though the latter would appear more appropriate as serving to perpetuate the name given by the discoverer of the first known rhizopod.
Black Barite from Derbyshire.
— Prof George A. Koenig communicated the results of an examination made on a specimen labelled "Manganese from Derb3'shire," in the collection of the Academy.
The mineral is jet-black in color, exhibiting metallic lustre.
Lamellar structure without distinct forms.
Strong cleavage.
Cleavage pieces gaA'e the angles of barite.
Specific gravity = 4.345.
Boiled with hydrochloric acid the black color disappears, leaving a white substance.
The analysis gave f100 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP []S78.
BaSO, = 1>0.40 Mn.Oj = y.lO n.,0 = 0.25 00.75 It presents fin inU-'iestini; illustration of liow a comiiaratively small amount of one mineial may mask the most striking pii^sical proi)erties of a mineral species.
:March 12.
The President, Dr. IIuschenberger, in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
March 10.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirtj'-two persons present.
March 26.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirt3-one persons present.
The following pajiers were presented for publication: — "Staffellite from Pike's Peak, Col." By E. Goldsmith. "
Stibianite, a New Mineral."
By E. Goldsmith.
The death of Henry Adams, Correspondent, was announced.
A Louse of the Pelican.
— Prof. Letdy exhibited a portion of the pouch of a pelican, witli several groups of large lice adhering to the lining membrane.
Tlie specimen, suspended in alcohol, had been presented to him some years since by his late friend Prof. Jeffries Wyman, who obtained it, while in Florida, from the white pelican, Pelecanus trachyrhynchus.
Later, Dr. Elliott Coues, U.S.A., had submitted to his inspection specimens of the same louse, which he had obtained from the interior of the pouch of a white pelican, from the Red River of the North.
The louse pertains to the 3[aUophaga or Fleece-eaters, and appears to be an undescribed species.
The name of !Menopon PERALE was given to it.
It is 2^ lines in length, and of a chestnut-brown color.
The head is broader than long, semilunar, -with 1878.]
101 a black spot on each side in advance of the pair of ej'es.
Prothorax narrower tlian the head, with a lateral conical point.
Abdomen nearly twice the length of the head and thorax together; terminal segment rounded, and with a tnft of hairs on each side.
Mandibles strong and black.
Expansive Force of Root Growth.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a one-year-old peach tree with the stone yet attached.
The stone had lost the usual power of dividing into two portions, and remained tightly closed; but the plumule had forced its way ihrough at the base, while the radicle appeared to have made its way entirely through the side of the hard shell.
Mr. Meehan referred to other cases of a similar character, already recorded in the Proceedings of the Academ}', notabl}' those of the stolons of coucli grass, which pushed through several potatoes, making a sort of necklace; and the case of the surve}' lawsuit where, by the thickening of the roots of a tree growing on a rock, the surveyor's mark on a tree trunk had, after many years, been elevated several inches, the effect of this growth being to lift a tree of many tons weight.
This peach-stone case seemed remarkable not so much for its expansive as its penetrating force, which, as suggested by Dr. Rothrock, may have been aided b}' an absorbent and solvent power.
The following papers were ordered to be published : — THE ELECTEIC CONSTITUTION OF THE SOLAE SYSTEM.
IJY JACOB ENNIS.
The zodi.acal light, tlie aurora borcalis, the corona of tlie sun, and the tails of comets, are all diflerent forms of tlic same thing.
They are electrical brusiies, precisely the same as tiie electric brushes which in the night are seen to fl}' off from a highly charged electric machine.
On the electric machine the electric fluid is developed by friction.
On our great globe, on the sun, and on tlie comets, the electric fluid is developed by evaporation.
Put a little saline water in a metallic vessel shaped like a watch crystal, then if heated, or if a hot pebble be dropped in the water, the vapor arising will be charged with the electric fluid.
All tlie waters of our globe are more or less saline, and the ocean is very much saline, and the rising vai)ors are charged with electricity.
A gill of water is changed into about 30 gallons of electrified vapor.
All around our globe the average rainfall is about 36 inches a 3'ear.
This shows the amount of water evaporated; and the amount of vapor and of the electric fluid rising daily high up in our atmosphere, is great beyond conception.
A very small portion of the electric fluid comes down as lightning.
The brilliant light and the loud explosions are simpl}' indications of tlie resistance oflfered by the dense lower atmosphere to the downward progress of the electric fluid.
But high up the air is ver}' rare, and the electric fluid easily rises upwards; therefore the higher regions of the atmosphere are always highlycharged with electricity.
Ordinarily the ground is negative, and the air is positivel}^ electrified.
As a balloon mounts up, a cord let down, say a hundred yards, sliows that its lower end is always negative and the upper positive.
This is proof that the upper strata of the air are more highly charged than the lower.
As those upper strata float toward the poles they carry thither an ever-increasing accumulation of the electric fluid.
What becomes of this fluid?
It cannol descend to the ground through the dense atmosphere ; there are no thunder showers in those polar regions, therefore it goes upward through the rare air to the top of the atmosphere, and from thence it is driven off in the form of auroral streamers constantly far away into empty space as electrical brushes.
But what repels this vast daily accumulation of electricity away from our planet off into empty space?
The answer is that electricity alone can repel electricity; and in this case the repelling electricity is seen in the corona of the sun.
The corona of the sun consists of brushes of electricity.
They are so vast that they rise up visibly to our eyes at this great distance a million of miles.
How much further they would be A'isible if our standpoint were nearer, we cannot say.
The}' are caused there, as here, by the evaporation from the intense heat of the sun.
They are so powerful as to drive the tails of comets, also electric brushes, in the direction away from the sun.
The}' drive awa}' from the direction of the sun our zodiacal light, and our aurora borealis, and aurora australis, all three of which must be regarded as the perpetual tail of our planet, in many respects similar to the tail of a comet; for the tails of some comets are so short and rare as to be either invisible or almost invisible at our distance.
Our auroral streamers and our zodiacal light are perpetual; they never cease, because evaporation never ceases.
There is a zone all around our globe toward the Arctic Circle where the aurora borealis is seen every night.
In Europe this zone lies in about 70 degrees of latitude, but in America it comes lower down, as far as about the latitude of 58 degrees.
As we go northward from Philadelphia we see the northern aurora more and more frequently.
It is eas}' in summer to go to Quebec, and from theie in a steamer up the Sagueuay River to Grand Bay and Chicoutimi, where very seldom a night passes without being cheered more or less by the electric lights along the northern sky.
The evidence is complete that an auroral display' is a display of electricity.
It runs along the telegraph wires, and messages have been dispatched and carried to their destination by the auroral power.
During the display of September 2, 1859, it was estimated by telegraphic experts that " the iutensit}of this power was equal to that of 200 cups of Grove's battery on a line 230 miles long."
I need not stop here to detail how telegraph operators have been stunned, how their apparatus has been melted, and how their work has been suspended by an electric storm on their wires coming from the aurora.
When there are extraordinarj' auroral displays the}' appear first in Europe and then in America; they travel from east to west arpund the globe like the dark cone of the night ; they are on the dark side of tlie globe, nnd llie aiirornl slie;iniers, sonieliincs fiOO miles high, i)()iiit !iw;iy from the sun, like tlie t:iil.s of eoiiiels, driven hy the sun's cleetiie repulsion.
This is ill iist rated liy the hours in whieh the}' appear.
In lower latitudes, say of 40 degrees, where the zone around the glol)e from east to west is very loni)-, the aurora appears in the earlier part of the night, and the eleetric fluid is all driven off generally before midnight.
J>ut far to the north, where that zone is shorter, the appearanees of the auroi'as are more often at midnight and later.
The following table shows the times of the appearanee of many auroras in Canada, and other stations further north, at Carlton Fort, Athabasea, and Point Harrow, ranging from 48 to 71 degrees of latitude.
IIoiII'S.
No.
of aur u-al di splays.
Hours.
No.
of auroral (lispliiy<<.
6 p. M. Gl 1 A. :\i.
.
323 7 " .
1:57 2 .
2G7 8 " .
220 3 .
240 9 " .
2GI 4 .
183 10 " .
328 5 .
133 11 " .
358 6 .
81 jMidnight 330 When ^[M. Lottin, Biavais, and their companions spent the long night of 70 times 24 hours at Alten Bay, in West Finmark, latitude 70, they saw 64 auroras, and perceived some half dozen more b}'^ the magnetic needle when the clouds hid the sky.
The aurora was not continuous during the long night, but once in 24 hours when the night overshadowed the same meridian in temperate latitudes.
If in these lower temperate latitudes the aurora occurred in the daytime, it could not indeed be seen on account of the light of the sun, but it could be perceived by the magnetic needle.
Not only the nightl}' auroral streamers, often 500 miles long, pointing away from the sun like tlie tails of comets, but also the eleven years periodicit}' of great auroras, corresponding with the eleven years periodicity' of great solar spots, declares the connection between the sun and our auroras.
Then indeed the auroral electricity' maybe felt on the telegraph wires in the daytime; that is on the sun side of the earth, because by unwonted solar activity the electric fluid is hurried away from the solar to the night side of the earth, and it is felt in its passage ; then, in those seasons of extra large auroras, the tall streamers are seen to arise not only from the north, but all around from the east and the west, and less strongly from the south.
Their upper limits seem to come nearly together a little sonth of the zenith in our latitude, and the near meeting of their tops forms a circle called the auroral corona.
This circle is broken, or nearly broken, on the south side, because the streamers rising up from tlie distant southern latitudes are too far off to be plainly seen.
While looking up to the centre of the corona we are really looking out of the far end of a tube — an auroral tube composed of electric streamers.
These streamers seem to approach one another, and make the far end of the tube very small, but really they do not approach.
Their apparent convergence is like the seeming approacli of the two rails on a railroad when the eye can see them far away.
These tall auroral streamers, which apparently converge and form the corona, must be several thousand miles high.
2s^ow we can understand why the zone of constant auroras is far this side of the poles, and why tlie explorers and tlie whalers in the extreme north have to look southwardly to see the auroras.
The polar regions on our globe are not in the direction awa}' from tlie sun; tlieir zenith is at riglit angles or perpendicular to the sun's radiations, and the solar electric repulsion di'ives all the terrestrial electricity away down to lower latitudes.
Now we can understand also why the earth's atmosphere extends so high.
Mathematicians have declared that, according to Mariotte's law, it can extend upward only al)out 40 miles, but the passage of meteors through the air, and their bright ignition,, prove that our atmosphere reaches as high as 200 miles.
Wlien we stand on an insulated stool charged with electricity, we know how our hairs all stand on end, and reach far out from our heads.
Pith balls and tufts of down tied to the ends of threads on the prime conductor of an electric machine, all fly off at the full lengths of the threads.
So it must be with the particles of air, onl}' in a far greater degree, because they are so much lighter.
The atmosphere, especiail}'^ its upper surface, is like the prime conductor of an electric machine.
This great machine rotating in tlie sun's rays, is constantly receiving an inconceivable amount of electricity from evaporation, and it must necessarily lift the top of our atmosphere far up — we cannot tell how high. '
8 The Zodiacal Light.
— Now first wf can uiiderstaml also tlio oause of zodiacal li^^lit.
At the l)elt of calms in tlic ecinatorial region, where the trade winds meet from the north and from tlie south, there is much evaporation, an<l as the warm, moist :iir rises, the vapor is condensed, and it descends in rain.
.Some, lliongh comparatively little, of tlie electricity comes down as lightniny;.
During three rainy seasons witliin the tropics, I iieard and saw much tiiunder and lightning among tiie clouds, but I never heard of a lightning stroke reaching tlie ground, though such instances may possilily have rarely occurred witliout my knowledge.
Therefore on the equatorial zone the electricity must accumulate on the top of the atmosi)here.
This it must the more naturally do because above the unstable strata of the atmosphere, which moves north and south, there is a much taller stable stratum which remains always in the same latitudes.
On this curious subject see the latter part of my paper on Meteors, in the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, for 1871.
This accumulation of electricity on the equatorial region must meet the same fate as the accumulations near the polar regions.
It must be driven off by the solar electric repulsion, and point with tall streamers away from the sun and form the zodiacal light.
The zodiacal light has the same color and appearance as a large streamer of the aurora borealis, being brighter below and paling off slowly to the top, the point above where it fails to impress the eye being undefined and uncertain.
It is more steadj' than the aurora, but when watched attentively it is seen on some nights to be broader, or taller, or better defined than on others.
Pulsations can sometimes be seen in it, cloud-like movements running upward as in the aurora.
Its greater steadiness can be accounted for by the greater steadiness and calmness of the equatorial regions.
And the aurora too appears more stead}' when seen nightly from high northern latitudes than when seen in its extraordinary convulsions from low latitudes.
At the equator the zodiacal light can be seen at all times in the year, both in the w^est in the evening, and in the east in the morning, and sometimes making the complete arch of the heavens.
When in great auroral convulsions we see the tall streamers rising up from all around the horizon, I suppose the southern streamers arise from this equatorial region, and that the zodiacal light and aurora are united.
Fig.
1.
The adjoining figure shows a section at the ^ ' E equator of our globe and the departing streamers which form the zodiacal light, the morning or eastern one at E,, and the evening or western one at W. At the equator on clear nights they are seen to be continuous b3' a faint arch all across the.sk3% The great authority on this subject is the work of Rev.
George Jones, Chaplain in Commodore Perr\-'s Expedition to Japan, in 1853-5, printed by the IT.
S. Government in 1856.
It may be thought that the electric repulsion from the sun should be seen on an ordinai-y electrometer.
But our electrometers are deepl}^ immersed in the bottom of our electric atmosphere, and this being near, overpowers the distant influence from the sun, the same as our moon is controlled by the feeble gravity of the earth, and not by the more powerful gravity of the sun.
The sun's electric repulsion is seen in giving a general external direction to the earth's electrical envelop, and not in causing small ditfereuces among interior objects.
The Corona of the Sun.
— At total eclipses a whitish irregular ring, nearly as broad as the sun's diameter, appears around the sun.
It has been compared with the '"glory" which in catholic pictures appears around the heads of saints.
This is the corona.
It is doubtless an effulgence, a constant streaming forth of electricity, like the aurora borealis, or like the zodiacal light, from every part of the sun's surface.
It cannot be an atmosphere except in its ver3' lowest border, for some comets have passed through it with ■ their speed unaltered and their bodies unaffected.
This impunity could not have happened to such large and extremely rare bodies, with such velocities, through any atmosphere.
As it cannot be an atmosphere, we can think of it as nothing but an outflow of electricit}', an electrical brush, or as thousands of them united.
But what can be the source of this outflow of the electric fluid?
We must refer it to the same cause as that from our earth — evaporation.
As evaporation from the sun is millions of times greater than from our earth, so the evolution of electricity' may be in proportion.
On earth the best image of the sun is the crater of a volcano, and no displaj's of thunder and lightning arc equal to those seen and heard in the ascending volcanic emanations.
Among our electric machines there is none so powerful as the one which goes Iiy cvn|)or:i(i(>ii.
'V\\v.
xapor most liiixlily t'li:ir<fO(l with electricity issues (Voin many small orifices in the sides of a tube.
The electric fluid in tiiis case has been supposed to arise from the friction of the vapor against the sides of the orifices; but this conjecture is loose and unsatisfactory.
Even if it be true in whole or ill j)art, there is somcthiii<f like it in th(!
sun.
The great mass of the sun consists of molten, liipiid mattcis, witii a specific gravity one-fourth heavier than water or ice.
This is the great source of liglit and heat.
Around this is an envelo]) of flames from 2()()0 to 4000 miles high.
This height is ascertained by the depressions of tile spots, which are solids partiall\' cooled, and floating like cakes of ice on water.
This tall enveloi) of flames is the so-called photosphere, having suspended in it many diflerent solar elements, and the thousands of their fixed spectroscopic lines are dark, because the chief light of the sun comes from the incandescent liquid below.
In that liquid chemical action is going on with inconceivable force, and its products are not onl^' heat and light, but red vapors.
From the vast amounts of some of these vapor jets, we must suppose that large bubbles of vapor, several hundred miles in diameter, are formed thousands of miles down in the interior of the sun.
Tliey must be sui)jecfc to enormous hydraulic pressure, and in the same proportion they must be ejected upwards with enormous velocities, some more and others less, depending on their sizes and the depths from which they come.
Some rise as high as 20,000 or .30,000 miles.
Others mount up to 70,000, and some few have been seen to reach 100,000, and according to Prof. Young even 200,000 miles, with velocities proportioned to their heights.
The i)ropelling i)ower of these jets has never before been published.
They seem to be innumerable, and the red vapor, after rising, falls back like the waters of a fountain.
Sometimes the vapor at our distance is invisible in the solar atmosphere where it condenses into visible clouds, and down from the bottom of the clouds some spectroscopists have perceived appearances like the fall of rain from a shower-cloud.
What this vapor is composed of we need not now inquire.
It is generally said to be hydrogen gas, because some of the hvdrogen lines appear in its spectrum.
But this cannot be, because it is red, and hydrogen is a colorless invisible gas.
It is not permanent, but condenses and falls ; whereas hj'drogen is a permanent gas, and must accumulate indefinitely on the solar surface unless it takes fire and burns, of which there is not the least appearance.
Hydrogen has only four fixed lines in its spectrum, but Prof. Young has seen ne!ril3^ 3G0 in the red vapors of the sun.
Probablj-, therefore, it is a complex vapor consisting of several elements ; and, like our vapors here, it may be a source of electricity.
Like a li^-dro-electric apparatus, it may also generate electricit}' bj^ the friction as the huge bubbles rise up so swiftly from the deep interior of tlie sun, ' In appearance and in action there is a perfect identity between our aurora borealis and the corona of tlie sun.
The lower portions of both are white without any variations of tint.
Above their bases begin their radiations — tall streamers reaching upwards.
The streamers are brightest below, and gradually pale off towards their tops, and these toi)S vanisli away in space so as to be undefined.
In both the largest and brightest streamers reach out the furthest, because thej' are the fullest and most copious jets or brushes of the electric fluid.
Taking them altogetlier the line of their contours above is a very broken jagged line.
Hence around the sun the contour of the corona is often not circular but trapezoidal and otherwise irregular.
Between the bright radiations of the corona there are darkish lines extending outwards, not really dark, but faint spaces less brightened by the rays.
Wider spaces between the rays are called "rifts;" the same as there may be deep depressions, nearly vacant spaces, in our auroras between two tall streamers.
These radiations and rifts in the solar corona have been photographed.
The same rapid changes in our aurora are seen in the solar corona.
Sometimes the corona is large, and then it is so bright that the eye can scarcely endure its splendor.
It then extends far outward, and is very irregular in its exterior contour — the streamers in some places are seen to rise a million of miles high.
At other times the corona is small and pale, and without radiations, or such radiations as are easily perceptible.
Then its form around the sun is circular, and nearly even in contour.
Prof Newcomb, describing the total eclipse of 1810, said, "Instead of the gorgeous spectacle I witnessed in the total eclipse of 1869, I saw only the most insignificant corona."
Speaking of the "great changes in brilliancy'," he says, " the corona of 1869 seemed to me many times more brilliant that that in 1810."
"The light of the latter seemed everywhere as soft and diffused as the zodijical light."
Still even then, other observers, probably with clearer skies, could detect r:\yfi^ as Prof. Eastman and Capt.
Tupjnan.
Professor Ilarkiiess, writing of tlie eclipse of 1870, said," I do not think tlie corona more tlian half or two-thirds as extensive as that I witnessed in ISfi'J.
On that occasion it had a well-marked trapezoidal form, but this time it seemed to me more nearly circular."
"Otto Strnve, observing at Leipsic, in 1842, found the corona so brigiit that the naked e^'e could scarcely endure it.
Mr. -Airy lias been fortunate enough to witness several total eclipses, and he testifies that the corona was much brighter in some than in others.
Tlie experience of the oflicers of this oliservator}' is the same."
Here the aurora borealis shows precisel}' the same ditferences at different times.
Jt may be large, bright, distinctly radiated, with a roiigli, uneven contour; or it ma}' be small, faint, without radiations, and perfectly circular on its top.
Not only from year to 3'ear, but even during the brief period of a total eclipse, the corona of the sun changes l)efore the eye.
In this respect also it is identical with our aurora borealis.
Streamers in both shoot up almost with tlie velocity of liglit.
I have seen in one aurora strong undulations, like wiiile clouds, fly up from our northern horizon to the auroral corona, south of the zenith, in the fraction of a second.
The great comet in 1843 passed around the sun in about two hours, and its tail, more than 100,000,000 miles long, must have swept around through an arc of 300 degrees in that short period.
It could not have swung around like a stiff lever from the comet; for that, considering the small mass of the comet, would have been contrary to the laws of matter and of motion.
It must have darted off from the comet every instant 100,000,000 miles^ with the velocity of light.
Nothing but electricity can do this.
Now the conviction fastens itself on our minds, that the' streamers of the solar corona must be capable of the same out-darting velocit3\ What happens on our own glol)e and on the comets may happen in the sun.
Hereafter observers of total eclipses will watch attentively to see the movements in tiie solar streamers.
Already we have a beginning in these facts.
Captain Tnpman, in his report to Professor Harkness al)out the eclipse of 1870, writes as follows: "The first part of the corona that attracted my attention was a ray or enlargement at the right upper quadrant, a little to the right of the ver}' bright protuberance, A ; but by the time you had done Avith the polariscope, which could scarcely have been ten seconds, the left and lower parts, B to C in the figure, were the brightest and the largest ; and so tliey remained until near the end of the totalit}', when the part, D, in the right lower quadrant, almost if not quite rivalled tliem.
The ra}', D, did not enlarge suddenly, but very gradually indeed.
The upper j^art of the corona was throughout the faintest.
The extreme right was also fiiint until quite at the end of totality, when it brightened a little.
No part increased in brilliancy without extending itself further from the moon at the same time, so as to become a more or less pointed ray."
Just, in fact, as it should do if it were the action of electricit3^ A copious outgush of the electric fluid would enlarge and brighten the ray and extend it far outward as an electric brush.
The evidence is strong that the corona of the sun varies, like the aurora borealis, not only from year to year, but even during the short space of a total eclipse.
I have now brought together the chief facts about the corona of the sun.
They are like those of the aui'ora borealis.
The aurora is well known to be electric.
And all the facts of the corona are perfectly explained by the same theory'.
Regarding the corona as being a great electric brush, we have also an explanation why the aurora and the zodiacal light point, like the tails of comets, awa}' from the sun.
The}' are driven off bjthe sun's electric repulsion.
If tlie sun's electric brush extends off on every side a million of miles from our stand-poiut, then if we stood nearer, sa}' at the orbit of ^lercury, we would likel}' be able to see them extend twice as far.
The power, the repulsive force, of such an enormous mass of electricity^ is beyond our estimation bjany reasoning, a jyriori.
Facts alone must teach us Iiow far its repulsive force may extend, and such facts we see in the diurnal and in tiie eleven years' periodicit}^ of the aurora, and in the diurnal periodicity of the zodiacal light.
Such facts we see much more irapressivel}' in the directions of the tails of comets driven off by tlie mighty repulsion of the solar corona.
To the comets we will now attend.
The Tails of Comets regarded as Electric Brushes.
— Here on our earth some materials evolve much more electricity than others.
Tin, zinc, and mercury, duly mixed, are found to be the best for friction machines; and a like selection of acids and metals is necessary for the galvanic battery.
The materials of tlie sun and of the comets are ver}-^ different from ours, and, therefore, they evolve much greater quantities of electricity.
The fixed lines ill tlic sol.
'ir spcct nun aic iiiiniinerable, :in<l indicate htindferls, j>i(>li;il»i y llioiisaiids, of siinplc clomeiits in tlif fsun.
Onl\' :il)oiit a half dozen of them are terrestrial, and some of these, such as the iron, may have fallen in the sun as meteors.
Thousands of solid meteors strike our earth annually, and the iron ones occasionally weigh thousands of pounds.
More and heavier meteors must fall in the sun.
The materials of comets we know to he very different, because they are such light Ixtdies, and they are easil}' evaporated and dilated by solar heat .
A comet at a distance ajjpears large, but nearer the sun it seems smaller, because much of its mass is so dilated by solar heat as to be invisible.
As the cometic and the solar elements are so different from the terrestrial, it is not strange or singular that their evaporation gives out more electric fluid than the saline waters of our ocean.
Comets present appi-arances so (liHereiit from the other celestial bodies, that they have been a terror to the world, and even scientific men have regarded them as totally difleieiit in their natures from the other stars.
IJut they are i)recisely similar to the other stars ; the onl}^ ditfercuce being that the3' carry some few ordinary princii)lcs to excess.
Their bodies are solid and very small ; in modern times they have repeatedly occulted the stars.
Their atmospheres are unusually large.
They are easilyevaporated and dilated by the sun's rays; and in this eva[)oralion they evolve unusual amounts of the electric fluid.
This is all.
These few facts explain all their wonders without exception.
From their smallness they do not make their appearance in the outer regions of the solar system.
Donati's comet in 185^, so magnificent when near, was first seen by the telescope as a faint nebulosity at only half the distance of Jupiter, whose diminutive moons are so easily seen with the smallest telescope.
As they approach the sun their j^eculiar elements are easily evaporated ; from this evaporation their electricity is evolved, which, rising up through their atmospheres, produces light; tlie same as it produces light in our own atmosphere, from the mild glow of the aurora to the brilliant lightning.
When first visible they are a faint nebulosity.
On coming nearer to the sun, their evaporation is so rajjid, and their electric outflow is so al)undant, that they are the most splendid objects in the heavens, and often they have been seen in the daytime, even in the close neighborhood of the sun.
These facts show that very little of their light is the reflected radiance of the sun.
It is chiefly theiiown independent luminosity sprino^ing from electric excitement.
This light is seen to arise from the side toward the sun, and, therefore, from tlie most heated and evaporated side.
It rises narrowly fan-shaped; very narrow and bright below, and spreading and paling upwards through the cometic atmospliei'e.
It is then, liy the repulsion of the sun's corona, driven backward all around like a fountain away from the sun, and it forms tiic tail, which generally spreads and becomes fainter, until it is lost by (lisi)ersion.
Its resemblance to our auroral streamers is tlien complete.
In the summer of 1874, when Coggia's comet ap[)eared in our northern horizon, with its large, broad tail projecting straight upward, I was on Mount Desert Island, far up the coast of Maine, where the auroral streamers rise beautifull}' almost every niglit.
The rise of those streamers, and the rise of the comet's tail, were identical in ever}particular.
Both were of the same color and tint; both were brighter below and gradually paled off upwards.
Their tops had the same indefinite ending, and both plainly lengthened and shortened while attentivelj' watched.
Tremulous waves ran upwards through them both — whitish, cloud-like appearances — as if the}^ were special gushes of the electric fluid hastening to escape, and carrying out the tops of both to a further distance.
The same cloud-like impulses pass through our artificial auroral tubes.
But they are plainer to our view in our near auroral tubes, less plain in the aurora brushes, and faintest of all in the tails of comets.
These three gradations depend on the distance.
I remarked that the general brightness of the comet's tail, so many million miles off, was about equal to that of the aurora borealis, so comparatively near; proving that the amount of the electric fluid from the comet must have been inconceivabl}' the greater.
It is a cardinal fact that the tails of comets do not occult the stars.
If their tails were vapors of any kind, the occultations would be decided and constant ; therefore the apparent vapor rising up from the sunny side of the comet is really the electric fluid.
The tail of a comet must be a hollow tube, because it springs from the sunward side, and falls back around on every side, like the waters of a fountain, and its own self-repulsion hinders it from coming together.
Hence there appears a dark line througU the centre of the tail, because from there, less electric light meets the cjc than from the bonlcrs wliose c(l<i;t'S are tiirno<l towards us.
The (lark lint' cannot he the shadow of tlie niieleiis, because a shadow cannot curve as did Hoiiati's comet.
The fan-shaped jet of light arisins^ throuo;!!
the front of the comet's atmosphere is not always steady, hut breaks out at different places, ''as from points of least resistance."
Hence the tail is sometimes described us unstead}', and to " sv/ay to and fro like a willow branch."
Auroral arches arise over our northern horizon and hover there for a while, occasionally two or three above one another, and then dart oif in streamers.
Exactly the same luminous arches rise in front of the comet, and the streamers then become the tail.
But there is this difference.
The streamers of the aurora rise from the convex side of the arch ; those of the comet are driven backward by the solar corona, and seem to depart from the concave side.
The head of a comet is solid, with perhaps some exceptions, and the bright glovv of light all around it is called the nucleus.
The broader and paler atmosphere is called the coma or hair.
But some writers call the tail the coma.
In tlie coma or atmosphere there may be clouds, as in our own ; and these clouds have been seen to be lit up by the electric passage.
A comet may have many tails, as man^' as six.
This is because in the solid nucleus there may be many points of least resistance, out of which the streams of vapor and electricit3'^ flow.
The greatest wonder about comets is the length of their tails; some of them are 120,000,000 miles long and even moi-e.
The diameter across the tail has lieen known to be 15,000,000 miles.
But is it {)ossible that there could have been so much electric force in a comet as to send ont such an electric brush ?
We may as well ask iiow it is possible for our sun to send out such a mass of heat and light uninterruptedly during hundreds of millions of years?
The answer is, that tlie materials of the sun and of comets are so very different from those in our earth.
The enormous heterogeneit}' of matter should be more studied b}' the scientific men of our day.
This neglect is now their great fault.
All matter was once many billion times more rare than hydrogen ; not dilated by^ heat, but by its own native repulsion.
This we know from the teachings of the nebular theory.
Even yet hydrogen is a million and a quarter times less condensed than platinum.
What differences there may be in the heat-giving power, or in the electricproducing power, of the materials of other celestial orbs, we are perfectly unable, a priori^ to tell.
All that we know is from what we see.
The electric composition of these great tails becomes manifest from the way they go around tlie sun.
Some great comets go around the sun in about two hours, as that of 184.3, the tail all the while pointing away from the sun.
Its outer end could not have swung around like a stiff lever through a space of 700,000,000 miles in so short a time.
That would have been inconsistent, as I have already said, with the laws of matter and of motion.
The tail must, therefore, have darted out continuously from the comet as an electric brush, and it must have been repelled in its direction away from the sun by the sun's more powerful electric mass.
There is something clearly defined and decided in the huge tail pointing away from the sun in its approach, and then apparently swinging around with the velocity of lightning, and on its departure pointing away from the sun again.
The electric theory of the constitution of the solar system explains the wonder clearly and easil}', and nothing else can.
Evaporation explains why the tails of comets have become shorter on successive visits.
The tail of Halley's comet was first described as being excessive.
In 1682, it was 30° in length ; in 1835, its greatest length was only 20°.
For the first two months in 1835 it had no tail.
It began on October 2d.
On the 5th, it was 4° or 5° long.
On the 15th, it had gained its greatest length, 20°.
On the 20th, it was only 3°.
Afterwards, at its perihelion passage, it liad no tail.
The explanation is that all these elements, whose evaporation evolved the electric fluid, had turned into vapor before perihelion, and then there could be no further evaporation with evolution of the tail.
But a condensation of much of that vapor must again take place in the cold outer region away from the sun; and this recondensed material must furnish anotiier tail on its next visit — a smaller tail, however, for a portion of the vapor must be carried awa3^ with the electric fluid, and scattered into distant space.
When comets have no tails, it may be that they have never possessed any of those peculiar elements on whose evaporation the tail depends, or that by repeated visits to the sun all their powerful electric elements have been lost.
The electric theory explains the various forms of the tail.^ That of 1843, which was more than 100,000,000 miles long, appeared like a straii^ht cv-liiulcr of lijjjht with vcmt liltle difrerciux' in tiiiokness tlirongli the wholi; length.
I reniemlier it well.
It was very near the sun, wliose large electric mass and powi'iliil r<'|Milsi(jn drove off the smaller mass in right lines.
The snn was the great prime condnetor fidly charged, and the comet was only like a small ijighly-charged pith hall.
The tail of Coggia's comet, being much furtlu'r from the sun, was more spreading and fan-like.
On account of greater distance, the sun's force was less, and tlu; self-repulsion widened the tail.
The tail of Donali's comet was spreading on account of the distance from the sun, and gracefully curved.
This curving was because the; comet was moving nearly at right angles to the direction toward the sun.
and as the tail was not repelled out rapidly', it fell beiiind the comet in its Fig.
2. progress.
In our figure S represents the sun, and C the •# comet moving in the direction of the arrow, and getting in advance of the extreme end of its tail.
■*-*€ Our theory tells why some comets have been split in ,5 two or three parts, and finally into thousands of meteors.
Although they are solid bodies, their cohesion is very slight.
"With a cotton string I tied in a bundle a handful of the downy tufted seeds of the milk-weed, ^.»c'Z<^/n'a.s incarna/a, which is abundant here.
The other end of the string I connected with the prime conductor of a large electric machine.
On turning the crank m}^ bundle was soon dissipated, torn iiy electric repulsion into many parts, which flevv away.
The repulsion was too strong for my t3'ing.
So it ma}' be too strong for the weak cohesion of a comet.
It may divide the comet first into two parts, and then into shreds, which may form meteor streams like those of August and November.
When Biela was divided into two, it is significant that each part was still a perfect comet, having a head, a nucleus, and a tail.
The two alternated several times in brightness, according as the electric fluid was liberated more freel}' from one than froni the other.
In a thunder-storm we see the lightning leap suddenly from cloud to cloud.
This violence is from the resistance of the air.
But the two i)ortions of Biela were in a vacuum, and a pale band of the electric fluid was seen to pass from the brighter to the fainter portion, the same as we see it pass through an exhausted auroral tube.
The two parts of Biela continued steadily to separate as though driven apart by their electric repulsion.
Before their disappearance the distance between them was 160,000 miles, and by their next return that distance had grown to be 1,250,000 miles.
On the night of the 13th and 14tli of November, 1857, the officers of the Observatory at Wasiiington counted 3000 meteors in an hour.
Professor Newcomb calculated that on an average every meteor occupied as its own territory 900,000 cubic miles.
The gravity of the sun could separate them only in one direction ; but their nearly even diffusion every way seems like the work of electric repulsion.
The meteors of the August stream are still more widely dispersed.
We can now see how comets may shorten their periods without the theory of a terrible ponderable resisting medium existing everywhere.
That is a most violent theory, and threatens to break down the entire solar system on the sun.
Let the curve A, B, C, D be the elliptic orbit of a comet, and S the sun in a focus.
Let the comet on its approach move any distance from A to B in a day, and an equal distance from C to D in the same time on its departure.
The electricity of the sun repels tiie comet, because both are clothed with electricity ; the same as a charged prime conductor repels a charged pith-ball.
For simplicity of conception let the repulsive influence from the sun move just as fast as the comet in these two regions of its orbit; that is, from B to A, and from C to D, in one day.
Then on its approach the comet must suffer resistance in moving from A to B ; but it finds no influence at all in moving from C to D. The same principle must apply neaily all around the orbit.
Whatever the diHerence between the velocity of the con)et and that of the rejudsive force from the sun, it must remain true that from aphelion to perihelion the comet must lose more velocity from the electric repulsion of the sun than it gains by that repulsion, in moving fiom perihelion to aphelion.
Therefore, upon the whole, the comet must suffer resistance from the electric repulsion of the sun, and its peiiod must be shortened.
This resistance is all the more effective from the great size and small mass of the comet.
Encke's comet, which gave rise to the " resisting medium" theory, is highly electric, as is shown in the drawings of Professor Asaph Hall, made on its return in 1871, printed in 1872.
For one, I am happy in being relieved from the dangerous, cumbersome, and highly improbable "resisti^ig medium" theory.
It has l)cf<)rc been surmised by souk; tliat the solar corona is electric.
Otliers liave thouifht that tiie tails of comets are electric.
Tile aurora lias been proved to l)e electric.
IJiit no one has conjectuied tiic origin of these electricities, except that evaporation lias been regarded as one of tlie origins of terrestrial atmospheric electricity.
No one has assigned evaporation as the cause of the solar corona.
Sir John Ilerschel lielieved tlie tails of comets to be vapors of some kind, raised by the heat of the sun, and driven awa}' by some unknown repulsion from tiie sun.
IJut his vapors were wot the electric fluid, and his repulsion was not electric rel)ulsion.
See his " Outlines " No one has said that t!ie zodiacal ligiit is electric, and that tliis and the auroral streamers, always like comets, point away from the sun.
No one has regarded all these phenomena as emanating from a common cause: the solar heat causing evaporation.
No one has supposed that the far distant solar corona, by mere .electric repulsion, drives off the tails of comets, the auroral streamers, and the zodiacal light.
A highlj'charged electric machine affects a delicate electrometer far off on the opposite side of a wide room; but this wonder, until now, was not fruitful in originating our theory.
Now, first, all these distant facts have been brought together, and they are seen to form a harmonious system.
A new spiritual influence is found to pervade our entire solar system.
If, in this sj'stem, the solar repulsion drives off the tails of comets 120,000,000 miles with nearly the velocity of light, why sliould it not reach, like gravitation, to the nearest fixed stars ?
What and where is to be the end of this new advancement ?
April 2.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
T\vent3'-six persons present.
Tiie death of Dr. Charles Picliering, a correspondent, was announced.
Toilet Habits ofAnts.—KQv.
H. C. McCooK stated that the agricultural ant — and the remarlv applies to all other ants of which he had knowledge — is one of the neatest of creatures in her personal hal)its.
He thought he had never seen one of his imprisoned harA'esters, either barbatus or crudelis, in an untidy condition.
The}' issue from their burrows, after the most active digging, even when the earth is damp, without being perce[)tibly soiled.
Such minute particles of dirt as cling to the body are carefully removed.
Indeed the whole body is frequently and thoroughly cleansed, a duty which is habitually, he might almost venture to say invariabl}', attended to after eating and after sleep.
In this process the ants assist one another; and it is an exceedingly interesting sight which is presented to the observer when this general "washing up" is in progress.
In the evening, wiien the gas-lamp upon his table is lit, and he had leisure from professional duties to watch his insect friends, he had manv times kept them under notice for protracted periods.
They crowd against the glass, and gather in groups upon the earth close up to it and cleanse themselves, cleanse each other, and sleei).
The first operatitm is conducted as follows: The ant to whom tlie friendly office is being administered (the cleansed, she may be called) is leaning over upon one side as we begin the observation.
The cleanser las we may nara.e the other party) is in the act of lifting the fore leg, which is licked, the mouth passing steadil}' from the tarsus up to the liody ; next, the neck is licked, then the prothorax, then the head.
The cleanser now leaves, and the cleansed begins to operate upon herself as will be described hereafter.
This process may be seen throughout the entire group.
We take another couple ; the cleanser has Ijcgun at the face, Avhich is licked thoroughly, even the mandibles being cared for, they being held apart for convenient manipulation.
From the face the cleanser passes to the thorax, thence to the haunch, and so along the first leg, the second and third in the same manner, around to the abdomen, and thence up the other side of the ant to the head.
A third ant approaches and joins in the friendly task, but soon abandons the field to the original cleanser.
The attitude of the cleansed all this while is (^ne of intense satisfaction, quite resembling that of a family dog when one is scratching the back of his neck.
The insect stretches out her limbs, aiul as her friend takes tliein successively into hand, yieUls them limp and supple to iier niaiiipiiIatiDU ; she rolls <j;ently over upon her side, even quite over iip<in her iiack, and with all her limits relaxed [)resents a perfect picture of niiiscidar surrender and ease.
The pleasure which the creatures take in being thus "combed" and " sjtonged" is really enjoyable to the observer, lie liad seen an ant kueel down ln-foie another, an<l thrust forward the head, droopin<>;, (luite under the face, and lie there motionless, thus expressing as plainly as sign-language couM her desire to be cleansed.
He understood the gesture, and so did the su|)plicated ant, for she at once went to work.
If analogies in naturestudies were not so apt to be misleading, one might venture to suggest that our insect friends are thus in possession of a modified sort of emmetonian 'riiikish bath!
The acrobatic skill of these ants, which had often furnished him amusement, was fnll}'^ shown one morning in these otiices of alilution.
The formicary was taken from the study where the air had becomechilled,and placed in an adjoining chamber upon the hearth, before an open grate (ire.
The genial warmth was soon diffused throughout the nest, and aroused the occupants to unusual activit}'.
A tuft of grass in the centre of the box was presently covered with them.
They climbed to the very top of the spires, turned around and around, hanging by their paws, not unlike gymnasts performing upon a turniug-l)ar.
They hung or clung in various positions, grasping the grass-blade witli the third and fourth pairs of legs, which were spread out at length, cleansing their heads with the fore legs or bending underneath to comb and lick the abdomen.
Among these ants were several pairs, in one case a trii)let, engaged in the cleansing operation just described.
The cleanser clung to the grass, while the cleansed hung in a like position l)elow, and reached over and up, submitting herself to the pleasant process.
As the progress of the act required a change of [)Osture on the part of both insects, it was made with the utmost agility.
The ants engaged in cleansing their own bodies have various modes of operating.
The fore legs are drawn i)etween the mandii)les, and, as far as could be ascertained, also through or along the lips, and then are passed alternately back of the head, over and down the foi'chead and face, by a motion which closely resembles that of a cat when cleansing with her paw the correspf>nding part of her head.
Sometimes but one side of the head is cleansed, in wliicii case the foot used is drawn through the mandibles or across the teeth of one mandible after everstwo or three strokes upon the face.
These strokes are always made downward, following thus the direction of the hairs.
The hairs upon the til)ia and the tarsus seem to serve the purpose of a brush or coml), and he had thought that the object in drawing the leg through the teeth or between the mandibles is to straighten up the hairs, and thus increase their efficienc}'' for service.
Not onl}' the fore pair, but also tlie other legs are passed, as above described, tlirough the mouth.
The second and third pairs are also and oftener cleansed hy the fore legs as follows: the ant throws herself over upon her side, draws up the middle and hind legs, which are interlocked at the tarsi, and then, clasping them witli one fore leg, presses the other downvs^ard along the otiier two.
The fore legs alternate in tliis motion.
When the legs of one side are cleansed, the ant reverses iier position, and repeats the process.
When the antennae are cleansed they appear to be taken between the curved spur at the extremity of the tibia and the tibia itself, as one would clasp an object between the l>ase of the thuml) and the hand, and are drawn toward the tip of the flagelhim, evidently with some pressure.
He had thought that he could notice this si)ur also used as a brush or scraper in the general application of the fore leg to the hodj'.
It seems to have an articulation at its junction with the tibia.
The cleansing of the abdomen places the ant in a grotesque attitude.
The hind legs are thrown backward and well extended, the middle pair nearly straight outward from the thorax, and less extended, so that the body is able to assume a nearly erect posture.
The abdomen is then turned under the body and upward toward the head, which is at the same time bent over and downward.
The hod3' of the ant thus forms a letter C, or nearly a circle.
The fore feet have meanwhile clasped the abdomen, and the work of brushing has begun.
Tlie strokes are directed upward toward the apex of the abdomen, and the foot passes around and beneath the under part, which is now toward the sternum.
The apex is frequently licked l>y the tongue, and the feet are occasionally passed through the mouth (not simply between the mandibles), after which the}'^ again are applied as before.
Evidently moisture is conveyed from the mouth and rubbed upon the abdomen.
He had so frequently observed this action that he could hardly be mistaken in the glossy appearance which showed the presence of moisture upon the surface.
Occasionally' tlie leg is rubbed over tlie head after being drawn through the mouth, and so again to the abdomen.
Usually the abdomen is held a little distance from the sternum, but he had seen it pressed up close against the breast, while the outer (upper) part was being cleansed.
One ant was seen cleansing its abdomen while hanging bjthe hind legs from the roof of the formicarium.
The abdomen was thrown up and between these legs, just as a performer on the turning-bar throws his body and legs upward and between the arms.
The head was reached upward from below to the apex of the abdomen, while tongue and fore feet were engaged upon it in the usual way.
The amount of time devoted to these toilet duties is very great with his impi'isoned ants, but is probably not so great in a state of natui'e.
No doubt with ants, as with men, an artificial condition of society gives inducement to a larger devotion to personal 9 appearance.
He liad not licen able to give llicm much attention (luring tlie day ; but wlien tliey arc transferred to the neigiiborhood of register or lire-phice, and thus are made unusually comfortable, they at once begin their ablutions.
Invariably, at night, when the gas-lamp is lit and jtlaced near the glass formicaries, the heat and light, both of which appear to be gratel'ul to them, tem|)t them out, as already stated, and they begin o|)erations.
So also after eating, and when awaking from sleep.
In short, whenever they are in a parlicidarly comfortable state they express their satisfaction by making their toilet.
.Notes on Acer ruhrum.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan observed that polygamous ])lants were defined as those which liad hermaphrodite an(i male and female tlowers on the same or separate plants, and, in some of our text-books, the red maple was given as an illustration.
But though the red maple had fiUl-sized autiiers in the early stage of the female flowers, tiie stamens were never fully developed, or were poUeniferous, so far as his experience extended.
According to his observations, the casual observer might be pardoned for supposing what are really l)Ut female flowers are herma[)hrodite ; for, on the bursting of the i)etals, tlie centre of the flower seems a mass of ))erfeclly formed anthers.
At this particular stage of the inflorescence, the ai)pearances in the male and female flowers are exactly alike, except that in the female flowers the apices of the two pistils are visible in the centre of the mass of stamens in the one case, while they are wholly absent in the other.
But, with the expansion of the ))etals, all growth in the stamens ceases in the ])istillate flowers.
They remain in this untinished condition, while the pistils continue to elongate and the ovaria to enlarge, eventually drying n|) and falling away.
In the male flowers, however, the filaments lengthen to one-fourth, and occasionally in some trees to half an inch ; and, when the proper time comes, the anther cells burst and the i)ollen escapes.
Why the stamens should be advanced to this stage in the female flowers to be su()pressed just before their full develoi)ment does not appear.
It is an interestins; i)roblem awaiting further investigation, but it leaves ns with the fiict that the flowers are none of them truly hermaphrodite.
The red maple is really a dicecious plant.
Mr. Meehan then proceeded to examine the average proportion of the sexes among individual trees.
On a tract on which were 144 trees, apparently ten to fifteen years old, he found 34 of them not yet in flowering condition ; of the remaining 1 10, 41 were females and 69 males, showing about one-third more males tiian females.
lie had examined a large numl)er of trees of mature age, but so far as he could ascertain there was no attempt to change tiie sexual characters, but each tree was male or female throughout its life.
In all that has so far l)een said of the structure and behavior of the flowers, those of the silver maple, Acer dasycarpum, correspond, but in the permanency of the sexual character the silver maple departs here.
It is not uncommon to find trees originally female, at some time sending forth male branches.
So far as his observations have gone, no male tree ever produces female brandies, nor does a branch once producing male flowers return to a female condition.
Notes were made to ascertain whether the mere vegetative vigor or the earlj'^ or lateness of flowering had an^'thing to do with tlie sexual conditions ; but though some trees were nearly a week later in opening their flower buds than others, and some trees were weak and starved looking, while others were vigorous, these varieties were as equally divided among those of one sex as the other.
It was further noted that the male flowers were fragrant, while the female flowers were inodorous, in this respect similar to the willow.
The male flowers of the willow are eagerly sought for b}bees which collect pollen from them.
So far he had found no bees visiting these, though in the warm April days some of the last to be in blossom attract small sand wasps to them.
It is probable that bees may under some circumstances visit the flowers, though under this season's observation they had not done so.
As it appeared that in man}' cases bees and insects were attracted to flowers b}'^ their odor, and tliat the visits resulted in cross fertilization, it was worthy of inquiry by those engaged in this special study what purpose was served by this sweet attraction in cases like this of the maple and willow.
Can it be that the red maple or its ancestors were once truly hermaphrodite, and that Avhen the sexes were separated, and the species become anemophilous, fragrance remained as the hereditary remains of u past usefulness ?
The following papers were ordered to be published : — 124 PROCEEDINd.S OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878.
THE BASILICA SPIDER AND HER SNARE.
I>v Uk\.
IIenky C McUuuk.
In the inontli of July, 1S77, I was encamped upon the hills of the Colorado Kiver, a t'liw miles southwest of Austin, studying the habits of the Agricultural and Cutting Ants of Texas.
A limited i)ortion of time was given to observations upon spiders, in the course of which tlie object of this sketch was discovered.
Her snare was hung about two feet from the ground, ui)on a Imsli which stood in the midst of a grove of young live-oaks.
Tiiis snare had the composite structure imperfectly represented in Fig.
1.
Tlic general form of the snare was that of a pyramid, the upper part of which, r, was a mass of right lines knotted and looped, and crossing in all directions.
Witlun this mass was suspended an open silken dome, d, constructed of a vast number of radii, crossed at regular intervals b}* concen tries after the manner of the snare of the common orb-weaving garden spider.
The radii were about ^^gth of an inch apart at the bottom or circumference of the dome.
The concentrics extended entireh* and with equal regularity to the summit.
They did not cross the radii in circular lines, but presented that notched appearance which is observed in the webs of some orb-weavers, particularly those whose snares are horizontal, as for example, Hentz's Epeira horlorum.
The meshes formed by the radii and spirals had thus much tlie shape of the meshes in a fishermar.
's net.
(See Fig.
9, ??.)
The diameter of the dome was from 7 to 8 inches at the base, the height nearly the same.
It was suspended in the midst of tiie mass of right lines by silken guys of like character, which thoroughly steadied the delicate structure, and perfectly preserved its form.
Beneath the dome, from two to three inches removed, was a light sheet of cobweb, c, irregularly meshed of waving and straight lines.
It had a decided convexity upward, and was supported like the dome above it, and of which it seemed to be a protecting curtain, by silken threads or guys, so stretched as exactly to meet this puri)ose.
Of the many specimens of spinning-work which I liave noted and studied, 1 have never seen one so beaut ful as this.
It was with real regret that tiiis rare piece of spider architecture was 18:8.]
125 destroyed, after it had been sketched, in order that the architect, herself one of the most beautiful of her order, might be collected for the cabinet.
The species has been named Epeira baHilica, her architecture having suggested tlie dome-bearing temples of the earlier Christians of the Eastern Church.
Fio;.
1.
Fig.
1.
Snare of Epeira basilica, d. Duiiie ; c. Curtain beneath ; r. Ketitelarian snare.
It would l)e an interesting study to the architect of human habitations, to uncover the principles upon which this silken basilica was reared.
He would doubtless find admirable adaptation of means to ends; he would be likelj' to meet methods quite familiar to himself, and perhaps stumble upon some of which he is yet ignorant.
He certainly would have occasion to marvel tiiat a structure so stable could be wrouglit out of such fragile material as spider silk, and that the delicate dome could be so poised in 126 [1878.
Fiff.
the midst and liy the helj) of silken tliieads as to preserve its j)erfect form.
rerliai)s he woidd rise from the study with a higher appreciatiun of llic (pialities and cliaracter of despised Arachne.
Nor would he find the creature herself unworthy of admiration as she hangs inverted within and just below the summit of the dome.
The term beautiful is rarely associated with individuals of her order, but it may properly be used in this case.
The fore part of the bod}', cephalothorax, is of a golden-yellow color, bordered and marked with blackish bands.
The legs are a delicate green, having the thighs marked by blackish longitudinal bands, and blackish annuli at the joints.
On tiie back of the abdomen the colors within the blackish marginal lines are as follows: At the base, next the coplialotliorax, a snowy while; the middle lobes are a light yellow, the lower lobes and the cruciform figure (showing Avhite in the illustration), are a goldenyellow.
The bands and markings on the side of the abdomen, a view of which is given at a.
Fig.
2, are in the following order from the top, viz., crimson, white, dark-green with light-green edges, blackish to dark green, 3'ellow.
Even the most fastidious lady would find it hard for her nerves to prompt a cry of "horrid spider!"
against a creature bearing such delicate colors and dwelling in such a fairy-like domicile.
In sooth, the ill reputation of spiderhood is had from those forms that affect the neighborhood of man, as cellars, out-houses, and kitchen walls.
These are among spiders what vultures are among the birds.
If one would see the graceful forms and beautiful colors, he must follow the creature to her favorite haunts in groves, woods, by streams and among meadow grasses, where he shall find many a species that may rival even the butterflies in brilliancy of coating.
However, the special point of interest about the Basilica spider is neither its architectural skill nor its fair colors.
Its chief importance in the mind of the araneologist is that it seems to form Eptiraba»i'ica,miign\Reil.
«■ Pro file ; c. Cephalothoiax.
Fig.
3.
•••• Eyes of E. ba»ilica, magnified.
a perfect link between the orb-weaving and the line-weaving spiders in the characteristic spinning-work of the two groups.
The main object of this paper is to exhibit this fact.
Some of the orb-weavers {Orbitelarise) have associated with their geometrical snare thecliaracteristic snare of the line-weavers (Betitelariee), which is a mass of riglit lines knotted together at various angles, and forming at once the home and the snare of the animal.
Tlie wel) of the lab^-rinth spider, Ejoeira labyrivithea Hentz, is an example of this, common to at least our p]astern States.
Another of these composite webs is Epnra ginhona.
that of the Epeiva globostt, Keyserling, Fig.
4, a Female.
Length, clescriijlion of wliich is appended to this paper.^ .2.5 inch.
m The curious manner in which the snares of the Orbitelarise and Retitelarise blend may be sufficiently shown by Fig.
5, which illustrates the spinning-work of this spider, as compared with Figs.
1 and 6.
It will be remembered that the simple characteristic web of the orb-weaver is the vertical geometric orb represented at Fig.
5, o.
In that example, however, there is a slight variation, as seen at/", in a break in the radii, leaving what is known as a free radius.
The bell-shaped den of thick white silk, J, within which tlie spider constantly dwells, is not peculiar to this species ; most of the orbweavers have a similar tent, or some floss-uphoL-^tered crevice, hole, or leafy nest, within which they conceal themselves frequently or habitually.
But Ejyeira globosa exhibits two other remarkable additions to the simple orb.
First, there is an open but quite distinct tube, gr, attached to the mouth of the den, rf, from which it reaches almost to the centre, c, of the orb to which the free radius is fastened.
Tlie free radius runs tlirough or along the "floor" of this tube, is continually kept taut, and is clasped at the upper end b}' the fore feet of the spider.
An insect struggling in the orb thus communicates the motion to the vigilant creature in the den, who dashes along her covered gangway, gr, to seize her prey.
This gangway is at times imperfect, shortened, or even wholly omitted, but is frequentl}' found as in tiie figure, which was drawn from nature.
In this bell-shaped den and connecting tube one may see a germ or modification, or suggestion, ■ See Proceedings Acad.
Nat.
Sciences, Phila., p. 201, 187G.
128 [1S7S.
of the (loiiu'-shnped .sliect-wcl) of llic Liinjiihiuidie.
See Kigs.
G and 7.
Fiir.
n. Snare of Ep.
yiutxjsa.
d. i>fii; g. Uiitigwiiy ; ni.
Mass ol rlglit liues abose; f. Free ra<liuK : o. Orb ; c. Central.
The second addition to the t^-pical orb web is the mass of rigiit lines, m ?
?j, which snrrounds tiie den and tlie gangway', and incloses the upper part of the orl).
This is an exact retitelarian snare, as ■will be readily recognized by an}' ordinary observer of the cobwebs (for the most i)art of the Theridioidse), which form the bulk of those infesting the angles of our kitchen, chamber, and outhouse walls.
It is proba!
)le that the purpose of this snare is to suspend and keep in i)oise the dwelling i)lace, J, and to protect the spider therein and on the gaugwa}' from the assault of invading wasps and other enemies of the order.
At least I have not observed it to be used b}' the adult spider for the capture of prey, the orb being the chief dependence tor that.
These lines appear also to serve the young spiderlings fur a sort of play-ground and foraging field for small insects.
18Y8.]
129 We have thus our first flistinct connecting link between the spinning work of orb-weavers and line-vveavers, established at the typical web of the latter as shown especially in the snares of the farnil}' Theridioidse.
The second and most notewortliy link, which indeed constitutes in the web of E. baHiHca a complete inter-blending of tlie groups, is at the snares of the Linyphioidse.
The genus Linyphia is one of the largest and most important genera of tl's line-weavers.
In order to show the steps by which the two groups ap|)roach each other in habit, some explanation of the spinning work of the Linyphise is necessary.
Their wel)s differ from tlie Theridioidse substantially in the addition of a sheet-like web to the web of right lines; indeed the right lines take a subordinate or subsidiary' place, and the sheet appears to be the real snare.
There are three common variations of form.
First, a plain sheet of tliin silk, attached to the under part of leaves, or ~' suspended between twigs, as in the web of Linyphia costata.
Second, the web represented at Fig.
6, the snare of Linyphia communiH.
It is composed of a mass of right lines, r, to which is suspended a bowl-like sheet, h^ beneatli wl)ich again is a dish-shaped sheet, f/, of more open spinning work with the concavityupward as in the bowl.
The snare from wiiich the figure was drawn (Aug. 15, 187*7, Delaware Co., Pa.) had a total height of from 12 to 14 inches; the diameter of the bowl was 6 to 7 inches, its deptli H to 2 inches.
The spider hung, inverted, to the lower surface of the bowl, and was thus protected from assault by the underlying dish, d. A third variation is that of the beautiful snare of Linyphia marginata (L. marmorata of Hentz), which is in form preyisely that of Fig.
G, except that the bowl becomes a dome; that is, the ouare of Liiiyijliia CDiiimunii.
b. Bowl ; d. Underlying dish ; r. Snare of right lines.
130 PROCEEniNOS OF TFIE ACAI>E.MV OF [1878. ssliet't, h, has the concavity downward instead of upward, and the disi), </, undergoes the same change.
In other words, the web of L. marcjinala has the exact form of the IJasilica spider's web, except that in the latter the dome (i'/, Fig.
1) is constructed of open, regular meshes, formed hy tiie intersection of radiating ribs of silk by notched coneentrics.
In tlie former (/>.
7?
?ar^ina/a), this bowl is woven of irregular!}'
placed threads into a thin sheeted web.
The lower curtains, cc, and the upper retitclarian web, r?
', are substantially the same in both.
Tiiat is to sa}', tlie t^'pical ciiaracter of the orb-weaver's snare, viz., regular radiating lines regularly crossed by spiral lines, api)ears in the web of Ej).
Basilica without any other change Croiu a fixed generic Lin^phian web.
Fig.
7 represents the snare of L. marginata as drawn from an example suspended within an opening in a pile of pine boards at Bellwood, in the Allegheny Mountains.
The snare commonly has the jjyramidal form of Fig.
6 when hung among bushes, weeds, and grasses, its most natural site.
Fit;-.
7.
Snare, of Liuyphia iiiai yiiiula.
a a, r r. Ketitelariau suaie, brauched ; d. Dome; c. Lower curtain.
We may trace this interesting analogy from another point in the group of orb-weavers, and find yet furtiier coincidences.
It will be noticed that the typical orb of the Orhitelarise^ as represented at y, Fig.
5, is vertical, while the corresponding section of IStS.]
131 Fio-.
8. the web of the Basilica spider Fig.
1, (Zrf, ma^' be properly described as horizontal.
That is to sa}', if a horizontal orb attached at the circumference in the usual way, were to be lifted up by a thread fastened in the centre, it would assume the shape of tlie dome in the web of the Basilica spider.
In point of fact, this effect might be produced from the characteristic snares of certain species of the orb-weavers, wliich, as has already been stated, are placed in a horizontal plane, at times more or less inclined by the stress of circumstances.
Our most common examples of these species are the Stilt spider (Epeira graUator), and the Orchard spider {Ep.
horlorum).
Fig.
8 represents the snare of the latter.
The diameter of the orb is quite habitually from seven to nine inches.
The spider, one of the most beautiful of the order, hangs inverted at the open central space.
Fig.
9, c, whose diameter is about the length of her b.od3'.
Xext to the open central is a series of concen tries which are most frequentl_y ten in number.
They are closely drawn, the ten covering a space of one-half to one-third of an inch.
These concentrics have the same notched arrangement as the spirals in the dome of the Basilica spider.
(See ?3, Fig.
9 compared with Fig.
1.)
Xext follows a free space, /"/, about one inch in width, beyond which are spirals, in number usually about thirty, which cross the radii at right angles ill the usual wa}'.
The number of radii generally about corresponds witii that of the spirals, and at the circumference the}' are from one-sixteenth to one-thirtj'-second of an inch apart.
Beneath the orb, reaching downward sometimes ten inches, is a mass of retitelarian Lines, Fig.
8, r ?■, which for the most part extend under but two sides of t^uare of Eptira hurti'i Fit:, n. 8ectioii of horizontal snare of Orchard spider, c. Central ; n. Notched spirals ; f. Free space.
the orh.
The s[iiiiiiiii<4 work of this mass is miieh more open than tlie eorres]»()ii(lin<j; (jltjeets, e r, in the Liiiypliian wel)S al)Ovc described, bill the reseiiil)h»Mce is marked.
If one were to fasten the thread to the central point of the orh in tiie orchard spider's web, Fiir.
8, and gradually lift it until the orb should assume the donu' (shape, he would have a snare very strongly resembling that of the IJasilica spider.
The difference would be in the absence of the retitelarian web above and around the dome, an<l the presence of the peculiar arrangement of the spirals just noted.
We have thus traced the aiudogy l)etween the spinning work of this species of the orb-weavers, and that of the line-weavers, in these several particulars; fimt^ in the dome-shaped snare and dwelling place ; second, in the mass of retitelarian lines placed around and above the dome; third^ in the sheet-like curtain underneath the dome.
Our E. basilica is seen to possess all the characteristics of the families of the Rftilelariae^ viz., right lines and sheet-web in exact detail, and dome-shaped wel) in outline.
It also is seen to })0ssess the cliief characteristic of tl)c Orbilelariae, viz., the geometric web, or radiating lines regularlycrossed by coneentrics ; to combine, moreover, in its dome structure the vertical and horizontal forms of the geometries, and to have the notched arrangement of the spirals peculiar to webs of some species.
Tlie Basilica spider ma}^ therefore be regarded as well nigh, if not completely, bridging the space between the spinning econom}' of these two great groups or sections of the Aranese.
It ma}^ be added that there is a close resemblance in structure between certain of the orb-weavers and line-weavers.
This is so striking in Koch's genera 3Iefa and Zilla, that they have been classed with both sections.
While, therefore, at one point we find the sections closely approaching each other in structure, in another we see them inter-blending in habit.
A comparison between the structures of the two creatures, L. margiiiata, and E. basilica, whose spinning works have such marked likenesses, shows, however, no such close structural resemblance.
ARANE^.
OBBITELARI^.
EPEIRINJG.
].
Epeira basilica, n. sp.
J .
Fig.
2, p. 126.
Length of body .284inch.
The cephalothorax \» oval, longer than broad ; color livid 3'ellovv, with irregular black bands around each margin, and a medial band, black, extending to the eye-space ; the base is rounded, the grooves and indentation distinct.
Beneath the sternum is a long oval, pointed toward the abdomen, wide black bands at the margin, inclosing a scalloped, 3'ellow medial band, in which are two parallel rows of blackish dots, of three each.
The head is slighll}' elevated beyond the thoi'acic juncture, but gradually depressed toward the eye-space.
The eyes are in two semicircular rows, Fig.
3, the inner row concave toward the front, the outer convex.
The lateral eyes are in contact, the foremost being much the smaller.
The four medial eyes form a quite regular parallelogram, somewhat longest longitudinally ; these and the two inner lateral eyes are about equal.
The e^^es of the hind row arc separated from each other by about the same distance.
The distance between the anterior middle eyes is slightly less than between the posterior middle.
The distance from the margin of tlie clypeus to the anterior middle eyes is about equal to one-half the distance between the anterior and posterior middle eyes.
The falces are conical, vertical, slightly inclined inward, of a livid yellow color, touched with black at the tips.
The maxilhe are gibbous, hairy at the edges, blackish.
Tlie lip is black, sub-' triangular, almost semicircular, rounded at the base into a concavity in the sternum.
The palpi are yellow, with green annuli at the joints, the radial and digital joints well armed with long bristles, shorter, and more numerous at the tips which are armed with a strong pectinated claw.
Legs 1, 2, 4, 3, the dilTerence in the length of the 1st, 2d, and 4th pairs being very small ; the 2d pair, if anything, a little the longest ; the length of these is about i^g^ of Sn inch; of the 3d pair about /jj of an inch.
The femur has numerous spinous bristles, arranged in spirals on the first two pairs, longest beneath, and numbering six.
On the tibia and metatarsus are three spirals of long spines, each spiral having four spines.
Short comb-like bristles continue to the claws alons; the metatrirsiis and tarsus.
The claws arc of tlu' t3i)ical Kjie.ira nuinlter and form.
The color of the legs is green, with l)lackisli rings at the joints; there arc two l)lackisli longitudinal liands or lines on the thigh, which are somewhat wider and more distinct on the first two pairs of legs.
The abdomen is three-sixteenths of an inch in length, subcylindrical, overhanging the cephalothorax slightly, and at the apex, protruding above the spinning mammula?.
It is formed and marked as in the figure.
The colors are as follows: above or on the back waving lines, crimson, except toward tlie apex, where they arc blackish, inclose a lobed band, white at the base, yellowish at the middle lobes, and golden at the apex where it terminates in a cruciform figure.
On the sides the order of color is, a crimson band ; white ; light green with dark green edges ; yellow.
Beneath, the abdomen is blackish with yellow dots and spots.
Habitat : Texas, near Austin.
2.
Epeira globosa, Keyserling.
Fig.
4, p. 127.
Vorhandlungen des zoologiscli-bolanischenVcrcins, XV.
I860, p. 820, Length of body, 9, one-fourth incli ; S, three-sixteentlis inch ; width of abdomen of 9, one-eighth incli.
Tlie ceplialotliorax is of a uniform livid yellow color, convex, nearlysmooth, cut off squarely at the base, rounded on the sides, liighl}^ compressed in front, the medial indentation deep.
The head is prominent, slightly elevated, hair}'.
The eyes are in two transverse rows, tlie anterior row decidedly convex toward the front, the posterior nearl}straight.
The four intermediate eyes form a parallelogram of whicli the anterior side is longest by about one-half.
The two anterior middle eyes are separated from each other ])y a distance at least twice as great as that which separates the two corresponding posterior eyes, and from these latter by a distance about equal to that which divides themselves from the margin of the face; they are black, as are also the lateral ej'es, and are placed on tuljercles.
The lateral eyes are in contact, the hinder one the larger.
The distance between the^ front lateral QyQ and the anterior intermediate is about one-half greater than the space between the two intermediate.
The falces are conical, vertical, toothed ; brownish, deepening into blackish toward the fang.
The lip is triangular, but rounded on the base ; the sternum is heart-shaped, the maxillfe rounded on the sides and cut squarely at the tip.
These last three parts are of a chocolate-brown color except a broad medial yellowish longitudinal band in the sternum.
The legs are in order of length 1, 2, 4, 3, are armed with spines and bristles, and have three claws of the usual epeiroid structure.
In color they vary, according to age, from olive green to livid yellow, with anuli, quite black on the tibia and metatarsus.
The palpi are colored like the legs, and have a strong pectinated claw.
The abdomen is hairy, reticulated, overhangs the ceplialotliorax.
It is of an olive green or livid, and strongly marked on the back with a butterfly-like figure, white, with black edgings ; a line of white spots extends along tlie sides on either side, beneath a black lateral band above the venter.
Across the base of the abdomen in front extend two rows of black dots, the lowest tlie sliorter.
The % does not greatly differ from the 9, but is smaller.
The digital joint is a prominent bulb, covered with curved bristles, convex externally, less convex within, and compressed toward the tip.
Just within the palm is a straight spine, pointing outward.
This spider makes a composite snare, as described and figured above, Fig.
5, being a vertical orb, with a free radius, and surrounded above with a snare of rigiit lines.
Habitat: Eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Probably the entire Atlantic coast.
13G PROCKKDINUS OK TlIK ACADKMY OF [1878.
