ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE GORILLA.
BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D.
As the opportunity does not often present itself of anatomizing a Gorilla, and as the literature on the structure of that anthropoid is not extensive, it appears to me proper to communicate to the Academy the results of m}' recent dissection of that animal, and to notice more especiall}' in what the Gorilla agrees with, and how it differs from other monke3^s and man.
I take great pleasure in prefacing my observations by stilting that I am indebted to Dr. Thomas Morton, of this city, for the very rare chance of dissecting a specimen of Troglodytes gorilla^ it having been seldom done abroad, and never before in this countr^^, so far as I know.
For a number of years past Dr. Morton has made numerous efforts to obtain a Gorilla, and finally, through the kind offices of Rev.
R. H. Nassau, M.D., of the Presbyterian Missionary station at Gaboon 100 miles below the equator in Africa, succeeded, in the early part of the summer, in getting to Philadelphia the subject of the present communication.
The specimen was sent from the Gaboon preserved in rum, and, through the excellent precaution of Dr. Nassau, considering all the circumstances, was received here in a tolerabl}' good condition.
Owing to his numerous professional engagements Dr. Morton was unable to dissect the animal himself, which at his request I did, with the exception however of the right leg, which Dr. Morton dissected entirely.
My remarks will be confined to my own dissections.
The speci-men placed in my hands by Dr. Morton was a 3'oung male, said to be about fifteen or eighteen months old, and which had lived under Mr. Nassau's hospitable roof for some months in quite a domestic manner, being very docile and affectionate in its ways.
I noticed its right arm had been broken, and that the lungs were quite decomposed, and so considered its death was probably caused by phthisis.
Notwithstanding that the animal had undergone decomposition in some parts, Mr. Nash, the preparateur at the University of Pennsylvania, with his usual skill succeeded in making an injection, which sufficiently filled the principal vessels for all practical purposes, and which materially assisted the dissection.
The specimen measured 21 inches from heel to the crown of head, the upper extremity 17, in the lower 13i.
The upper extremity was measured from head of humerus to tip of middle fiDijer ; the lower from head of feuuir to tip of middle toe.
Wliat struck me at once as regards tlie extremities was the great lengtli of the upper extremities, the tips of tlie fingers reacliing 3^ inches below the knee when tlie animal stood erect.
The length of the ui)per extremities is conditioned by the peculiar gait of the Gorilla, which shufllcs along semi-erect on all fours, using the extended hand as a fulcrum, and not flexing the fingers like the Chim|)anzee.
I make use of the term hand intentioriall}' in contradistinction to that of foot, as, in my opinion.
Prof. Huxley' has satisfactoiily proved that the upj^er extremit3' is terminated 1)3' a hand and the lower hy a foot.
Tiie hand, Plate Y., fig.
1, measures 5 inches, and is slightly longer than the foot, Plate V., fig.
2, which is 4^ inches long, A very noticeal)le difference in this young male, as compared with an old one, is the absence from the head of the crest or ridge of bone running along the sagittal suture of the skull, which is so characteristic a feature of the skull of the adult male Gorilla.
As the animal advances in life the temporal muscles develop, and their great size necessitates a firm basis of origin, and hence tlie absence of this bony ridge at the early age of two years.
The young Gorilla, however, exhibits that width and elongation of the face and massiveness of the jaws, Plates III.
and IV., which give the animal such a bestial aspect, so remarkable also in the Papuans, Hottentots, Caffres, and some others of the lower races of mankind.
The part of the head containing the brain, however, is far from being misshapen ; on the contrary, it presents a ver^'.fair contour, and this is as might be expected, as the brain of the adult Gorilla, whose skull is very animal-like, amounts to 34^ cubic inches, while in some of the lower races of mankind, according to the high authority of the late Dr. Morton, there is as little as 63 cubic inches, the higher races, however, attaining as much as 114.
These facts illustrate the importance, if one reallywishes to get at the truth, of comparing the highest kinds of monkeys with the lowest types of mankind, and not with the highest, as is usuallydone, the latter comparison immeasurabljincreasing the gap between man and monkey. '
3Iaii's Place iu Xature.
1864.
On removing the calvarium the brain was found almost entirely decomposed.
The base of the skull was remarkably human in its appearance, and the following measurements were noted : Anteroposterior diameter, from the foramen ctecum to the torcular herophili 4g inches ; lateral diameter through sella turcica 3^ inches; lateral diameter from bases of petrous portions of temporal bones 31 inches.
The distance between the foramen cfecum and olivary process measured 1^ inches, from olivary process to posterior clinoid process ^ inch; sella turcica to torcular heropliili 2| inches; outer border of lesser wing of sphenoid to ridge of temporal Ig inches.
These measurements indicate a well-formed and relatively large brain.
The number of teeth in the Gorilla, like all the catarrhine monkeys, is the same as in man.
The ferocious aspect of an old male is due to a great extent to the large size of the canine teeth, which in the young male are comparatively small.
The neck in our specimen is short and thick ; the chest and shoulders broad, bod}^ long.
As the skeleton of the Gorilla has been admirably described by Prof. Richard Owen,^ it would be superfluous for me to consider it here, and I take the opportunity also of testifying to the general accuracy of the description of its myology b}^ the late Prof. Duvernoy,^ so far as my specimen enables me to make a comparison.
In some parts the muscles were too much decomposed to detern)ine positively their origin and insertion, and in some instances muscles described b}" Duvernoy were certainl}'^ wanting in the specimen dissected by me, or had a different disposition.
As the inuscles of the extremities are the most interesting, being regarded by Prof. Huxle^' as among the tests for the bimanous or quadrumanous nature of the Gorilla and other monkeys, I will confine myself more particularly to the description of the muscles that I found in the extremities of this specimen.
In reference to the muscles of the arm in ray specimen the biceps, coraco brachialis, brachialis anticus, and triceps did not differ in any way from the corresponding muscles in man.
But there was present the latissimus condyloideus, its name indicating its origin and insertion — a muscle which I have found in various ' Zoological Trans., vols.
4, 5.
2 Archives du Musee, 1855-56. other monkeys, viz., Cynoccphahist^ Gercopithicus, Macacua, Cebus^ Ilapale.
This muscle has been described as occurring also in the Cliimpaiizee, Orang, and (j!il)bon.
I have seen it as an anomaly in the colored races of men, and it has been recorded as also occurring in the white races.
Tlie only differences as regards the superficial muscles of tiie anterior aspect of the forearm as comijared with those of man are that the pronator radii teres arises by only one head, and by that from the internal condyle of the humerus, and that the palmaris longus is absent.
'I'liis, however, is sometimes absent in man.
There was no appieciable difference in the origin and insertion of the flexor carpi radialis, flexor carpi ulnaris, or flexor sublimus digitorum.
Of the deep muscles of the fcn-earm, the pionator quadratus^ and flexor profundus digitorum offer in this specimen nothing specially different from those of the same muscles in man.
But an interesting peculiarity is the entire absence of a'flexor longus pollicis.
According to Duvernoy, the flexor profundus digitorum in the Gorilla gives off a tendinous slip which passes to the thumb, and corresponds to the flex<jr longus pollicis.
Such a disposition I have seen in the various genera of monkeys I have dissected.
But in this Gorilla there was no trace of a flexor longus pollicis either as a distinct muscle or as a tendinous portion of the flexor longus digitorum.
Thinking that perhaps this might be an anomaly, I looked carefull3' for the muscle or the tendon in the other hand, but could find no trace of either.
The entire absence of the flexor longus pollicis in the Orang, also, is well known.
On the back of the forearm, in my specimen, were well-developed, in no wise different from man, the supinator longus, supinator brevis, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, extensor indicis, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, and extensor secundi internodii pollicis.
According to Prof. Huxley,' the muscle usually' described as the extensor primi internodii pollicis in the Chimpanzee and other apes, is the metacarpal division of the extensor ossis metacarpi.
While appreciating this criticism, I am nevertheless satisfied that there exists a distinct extensor primi internodii pollicis in this ' The pronator was only slightly developed in this specimen.
2 Anatomy' of Vertebrates, p. 408. specimen of the Gorilla.
As regards the hand the tendons a of the flexor sublimus digitorum />, Plate TI., Gg.
1, split so as to enable the tendons h of the flexor profundus digitorum, Plate VI., fig.
1 i, to pass through to their insertion.
Part of the flexor profundus i in the figure is concealed b}' the flexor sublimis h. The lumbricales are well developed.
The thumb preseuted fully developed the abductor, flexor brevis, adductor, Plate YL, fig.
1 c, 0^, <?, and opponens pollicis, and the little fiuger, the abductor, flexor brevis and opponens minimi digiti.
In the disposition and relative development of these muscles I can see no difference fiom those exhibited iu the hand of man.
Briefly, then, the muscular sj'stem of the upper extremity of the Gorilla diSers from that of mau in that the latissimo-cond_yloideus is present in the former, while the palmaris longus and flexor longus pollicis are absent, and that the pronator arises by only one head.
In the thigh I noticed the tensor vaginfie femoris, the rectus, the vasti and crureus, the adductors and pectineus, the sartorius, biceps, gracilis, semi-membranosus, and semi-tendinosus.
The last two muscles in the Gorilla are more fleshj^ than in man, but in other respects these muscles, as well as those just mentioned, are essentially the same iu their origin and insertion as in man.
On the anterior aspect of the leg may be seen the tibialis anticus, extensor longus hallucis, extensor longus digitorum.
The little slip from this hist muscle, unfortunately called the peroneus tertius in human anatomj', is absent iu the Gorilla; I say unfortunately, because the name peroneus tertius would lead the comparative anatomist to suppose it inserted in the third toe, just as the names peroneus quartus and peroneus quintus of the rabbit and marmoset monkeys imply that these muscles are inserted into the fourth and fifth toes respectively, which is the ease in these animals, whereas the peroneus tertius of human anatomjarises from the dorsal side of the fibula, and is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the fifth toe.
It seems to be peculiar to man, and is sometimes absent The peroneus longus and peroneus brevis in the Gorilla repeat essentially the characters of those muscles in ' man, and there is an extensor brevis digitorum.
The posterior aspect of the leg of the Gorilla exhibits the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, tibialis posticus, and gastrocnemius, similar to the corresponding muscles in man.
The soleus,'liowever, only arises from the fibula in the Gorilla, as I have also noticed wns llie case in otlirr monkeys.
TIk; pl.-iiitai'is is absent in this specimen.
Tlie itlantaiis is, iiowever, well <leveloi)e(l in the Baboons, .Mncacqnes, etc The abductor, flexor brevis, adductor of the iialhix, are as evident in the Gorilla as in man, as also the transversus pedis, aliductor and flexor brevis minimi digit i.
The flexor accessorius is, however, absent in the Gorilla and in the Gibbf)on and Orang, but sometimes present in the Chimpanzee.
I have found itMvell developed in ]SIacae(jues, Baboons, Vervets, etc.
The flexor ))revis digitorum, Plate VI., fig.
2, fl, in the Gorilla is somewhat different from that in man.
The part supplying the second and third toes.
Plate VI., fig.
2, a', only arises from the calcaneum, a, the tendons going to the fourth and filth toes coming oflf' from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, r/, an<l flexor longus hallucis, e. respectivel3\ The tendon for the fifth toe is not perforated.
The flexor longus digitorum, (/, supplies especially the deep tendons for the second and fifth toes, Plate VI., fig.
2, i, c. The flexor longus hallucis, Plate VI., fig.
2, e, divides into two tendons, one of which,/, supplies the big toe, and the other, g, after giving uniting fibres to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, passes to be inserted to the third and fourth toes, A, k. The flexor longus digitorum, d, supplies the superficial tendon for fourth toe, 6, and the deep tendon for the fifth one, c. The flexor longus hallucis, e, the superficial tendon for the fifth toe, and the deep one for the fourth toe, k. The superficial tendon for the fifth toe is not represented in the figure, it having been unfortunately torn off before it could be drawn.
There are well-developed lurabricales.
On comparing the lower extremity of the Gorilla with that of man, the principal differences in the muscular system are the absence, in the Gorilla, of the plantaris, the so-called peroneus tertius, flexor accessorius, the soleus arising by only the fibular head, and the flexor brevis digitorum only in part from the calcaneum, and the defined share that the flexor longus hallucis takes in forming the deep tendons of the third and fourth toes.
Surch' these differences cannot be strained into proving that the termination of the lower extremity of the Gorilla is a hand, especially when it is remembered that two of the muscles which are absent in the Gorilla are present in the lower monkeys.
I must respectfull}protest, therefore, against the conclusions arrived at bj' Prof. Bischoff ' in his elaborate me1 Munich, 1870. moil" on the Ili/lobafes, namely, that the monke3's are four-handed, structurally.
That the monkey's use their feet like hands is a matter of every-day observation.
But to conclude from that fact that their feet are anatomicalh^ hands is as illogical as it would be to conclude that the Ateles and Colobus possess onlj^ rudimentary thumbs, and having, therefore, no grasping power and using their hands like feet, are four-footed, not four-handed.
To be consistent, those who assume that the Gorilla and other monkej's are four-handed should hold that the tail of Ateles is anatomically a finger, simply because it is used like one, and its upper extremity terminates in a foot and its lower in a hand.
It is interesting to notice that in the Gorilla the great bloodvessels come off from the aorta in the same manner as in man.
Thus the subclaA'ian and left carotid arteries spring separately from the aorta, while the right carotid and right subclavian originate in a common trunk — the innominate.
This disposition of the vessels is also seen in the Chimpanzee, according to Yrolik.'
With this exception, the arrangement of these bloodvessels in all the other monke3's is that the left subclavian comes off separately from the aorta, but that the left carotid originates in tlie innominate, as well as the right carotid and right subclavian.
I have noticed a similar arrangement, with minor differences, in such animals as the Tiger, Squirrel, Guinea-pig, Kangaroo.
It should be mentioned, however, that the origin of the bloodvessels which obtains in man, the Gorilla, and Chimpanzee, is not characteristic of these animals, as I have seen a similar arrangement in the Hedge-hog, Seal, Beaver, Sloth, Wombat, and, according to Meckel,is found in the Ornithorhynchus, In reference to the vascular system of the upper extremit}^ of the Gorilla, there was nothing essentially different from that of man.
The brachial arter}^ divided into the radial and ulnar; the palmar arch and digital vessels exhibited the human arrangement.
I noticed the cephalic and basilic veins, the radial, median, and ulnar.
The onl}' peculiaritj' about the vessels of the lower extremity was that of the femoral artery giving off, in the middle of its course, a good-sized vessel, which accompanied the long saphenous nerve and vein to the inner aspect of the foot.
Possibly, tliis is onl}^ an ' Recherches sur la Chimpanzee.
^ 2 Oruithorhyucbus, 1826. anomaly, but l>r.
Morton found the same vessel in the right leg.
Should this vessel be found in future instances.
I would call it'the long sa|>henous artery.
The distribution of tlie plantar arteries is the same as that in man.
As regards the nerve system, tlie external cutaneous nerve passes tlirough the coraco-braehialis muscle in the Gorilla as in man; tiie ulnar nerve, however, is imbedded in the latissimocondyloideus muscle; the median nerve, o|)posite the articulation of arm and forearm, gives off a branch tliat anastomoses with the ulnar.
I have never seen such an anastomotic branch in man: possibly it is only an anomal}'.
The median nerve, Plate VI., fig.
1, /, supplies, in the Gorilla, the tliumb, index, middle, and the inner side of ring finger; the nlnar, Plate VI., fig.
1, 7, the outer side of the ring and little finger.
The back of the hand receives filaments from the radial and ulnar nerves.
The whole disposition is similar to that seen in the hand of man.
In a similar manner to that of man, the plantar nerves furnish the nervous supply to the foot of the Gorilla, i Inasmuch as the nerves, arteries, and veins of the extremities in the Gorilla are essentially the same as in man, it confirms the statement made above, deduced from the arrangement of the bones and muscles, that the Gorilla has anatomicall}' two hands and two feet in just the same sense that man has, and what is true for the Gorilla is true for all the monke3's.
I do not mean that the hand of every monkey is alike and exactly similar to that of man, or that the foot is absolutely similar in all these animals.
On the contrary, I have often noticed minor difierences ; but, in my opinion, to say that a monke3' is quadrumanous in its structure is to state what can be demonstrated as false in the monkc}^ of any species, whether high or low.
Unfortunately the thoracic and abdominal organs were too much decomposed in this specimen to give any detailed account of their structure.
The peritoneum entering into the formation of the great omentum had been so much torn that I cannot say positively whether the transverse colon was separate from the great omentum, as is seen in monkey's and in man when in an embryonic condition — or fused with it, as exhibited in the adult human being.
There were no valvulae-conniventes in the intestine.
The only mammals, indeed, with the exception of man, in which I have noticed these folds of the mucous membrane, are the Elephant and the Camels; according to Meckel, the^-are also present in theOrnithorhynclivis.
In that portion of the small intestine that was intact I observed the glands of Pejer, relatively large and well developed.
The vermiform appendix was present, and measured two and a half inches.
This interesting structure is also found in the Chimpanzee, Orang, and Gibbon, but is absent in other monkeys; it is, however, found in the Wombat.
I noticed it in three animals of that species that I have dissected.
The intestines contained the remains of half-undigested vegetable food.
Although the Gorilla was said to be nearly eighteen months old, the scrotum was hardly developed; the testes, however, could be felt just below the external abdominal ring, and the communication between the greater cavity of the peritoneum and that of the tunica vaginalis testis was unclosed.
What conclusions can be drawn from this brief account of the structure of the Gorilla as to its place in Nature?
In 1864 appeared the admirable "Man's Place in Nature," by Prof. Huxley, in which the general proposition is maintained that the gap between the Gorilla and the lower monkeys is greater than that between the Gorilla and man.^ With all deference to that profound thinker, it appears to me that that proposition, while generally true, is not strictlj' so, since there are present in man and the lower monkeys certain muscles, like the flexor longus pollicis, or its homologue, and the flexor accessorius, which are absent in the Gorilla ; wdiile the Gorilla and the lower monkej's possess the latissimo-condyloideus muscle, which is absent in man, except as an anomaly.
I call attention to the above essay of Prof, Huxlti}^, nat so much in a spirit of criticism, for 1 am in accord thoroughly' with the tenor of the work, as to account for the general error so common among non-professionals, that evolutionists hold that man has descended from the Gorilla.
Prof. Huxley certainlj^ did not intend, in the famous work referred to above, to leave the reader with the impression that man had descended from a Gorilla.
But as a detailed comparison was made between man and the Anthropods, there was a widespread impression developed b}' the publication of that book, that such a view was held by Darwinians, and advocates of the development theory generally, for which Prof. Huxley is unjustly held responsible, as too many criticize his work without havingr read it. '
Man's Place in Nature, pp.
84, 103.
26 Ilaviiio; li:i<l tlic oppoitiinitv of dissecting numerous genera of nioiikt'vs, :iii.l ;ilways while so doiiii^ reflecting on their str.icture as conipared with tiiat of man, 1 venture to state tliat I do not think any monkey now known can 1)0 regardeil as the ancestor of man in general, and the Gorilla certainly not in particular.
On tlie contrary, however, I believe that all the facts go to sliow that the dilferent kinds of monkeys are the modified descendants of one ancestor, and that the different races of men have similarly descended from a common ancestor, and, further, that the ancestors of the monkeys and man hacl a common aucestr}'.
In a word, man, the Gorilla, the Chimpanzee, and the Orang, etc., arc distantly related, man and monkeys l)eing meml>ers of the same order, Primates, and that there is no race of man, recent or fossil, or kind of monke}', now living or fossil, that will adequately represent the primitive man or the primitive monkey, and still less the common ancestor of both.
If this view be correct, a "missing link" ought not to be expected to be found.
While a firm Ix'liever in the doctrine of evolution, and while being entirely satisfied that the form of any animal or plant is the resultant of incidental forces upon plastic matter, and that the ])roblems of morphology are questions of the redistribution of matter and motion, simple phj'sical prol)lems to be considered in tlie same spirit as the phenomena of electricity and chemistry are investigated, I must say that the genealogy of man has not as yet been worked out.
PROC, A. N. S.
PHILA"., 1878 ^^T.CS.clel STEARNS ON WEST COAST SHELLS.
