ON A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF SCOMBRIDiE.
BY W. N. LOCKINGTON.
Since D. W. B. Ayres between the years 1854 and 1863 described nearly seventy species of fishes from the West Coast of N. America principally from the neighborhood ofSan Francisco until my own scattered notes appeared in the Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
1876 very little has been done in ichthyology by naturalists resident on this coast.
In 18631864 Dr. J. G. Cooper at that time attached to the Geological Survey of Cal. described eight species and about the same time Mr. A. Garret during a visit to this coast described a Muraenoid fish in a paper principally devoted to the fishes of the Sandwich Islands.
All these papers were published in vol.
iii.
of the Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
Meanwhile the ichthyology of this coast has received careful attention from Gill Giinther and Steindachner the last of whom visited us with the Hassler Expedition resided here a short time and took away with him numerous specimens.
It has for some time been my endeavor to collect together and identify such of the species described by the above authors and by Girard in vol.
x. of the Pac.
Kail.
Reports as occur in or near the Bay of San Francisco and to add to our knowledge of them whatever information I can collect respecting their distribution lifecolors variations etc.
In so doing I have meet with the following new form.
CHRIOMITRA nov. gen.
Body elongate fusiform cleft of mouth wide.
First dorsal separated from the second by an interspace seven or more spurious fins behind dorsal and anal.
No corselet or pectoral region body naked or covered with small scales.
Teeth of moderate strength in the jaws none on the vomer or palatines.
A longitudinal keel on each side of tail.
Seven branchiostegals.
Dorsal spines 15.
Pectoral fins inserted at the level of the eye.
This genus is distinguished from Scomber by the greater number of the finlets and by the want of a uniform covering of scales from Orcynus and Sarda by the absence of a corselet and the presence of an interval between the two dorsals from Cybium by the latter character and from all these genera by the absence of teeth on either vomer or palatines.
From Auxin it differs in the absence of a corslet in the larger size of the teeth and in the greater number of dorsal spines.
Etymology xpsta want ixtrpa.
stomacher viz. corslet.
Chriomitra concolor sp.
nov. D. 15 17 VII.
A.
1 17 VIII.
Teeth in a single row triangular compressed those of lower jaw largest none near the symphysis fceven or eight finlets behind the dorsal eight behind the anal pectoral oneeighth of the total length to the end of the central caudal rays ventrals small in length less than th of the pectorals.
Description.
Dorsal outline a regular gentle curve from snout to tail ventral outline similar to that of dorsal.
Cleft of mouth slightly oblique maxillary reaching to a vertical from the hinder margin of the eye its anterior part concealed behind the preorbital when the mouth is closed.
Jaws equal in front teeth in a single row on the jaws none on the vomer or palatines.
Teeth in lower jaw larger than those in upper compressed at base gently curved inwards  those in upper jaw much smaller compressed triangular straight.
Length of head slightly exceeding the greatest depth and contained about five times in the total length.
Eye slightly oval its longitudinal diameter contained seven times in the length of the head snout a little more than onethird of the same length tapering regularly to the tip and convex above as is also the whole upper surface of the head.
Hinder margin of preoperculum with a long shallow sinus its lower angle extending a little farther back than its upper extremity lower border almost straight horizontal.
Hinder margin of operculum and suboperculum a regular curve.
Distance from tip of snout to origin of first dorsal contained about 4 times in the length to end of central part of caudal  its length of base very slightly less than its distance from tip of snout.
Second third and fourth dorsal spines highest thence diminishing rapidly in height to the tenth the remainder short and apparently isolated.
All the spines are exceedingly slender and fragile the longest are about equal to onethird the length of the head.
Interspace between the two dorsals about onefourth of the length of the base of the first dorsal.
Second dorsal commencing halfway between the tip of the snout and the origin of the caudal increasing rapidly in height to the fourth which is equal to the sixth and slightly shorter than the fifth the fifth a little less than half the length of the head.
The rays diminish rapidly in height to the eleventh which is about half as long as the fifth  the remaining rays decrease slowly to the last which simulates a finlet.
Anal similar in form to second dorsal but its rays somewhat shorter than the corresponding dorsal ones.
Pectoral pointed the rays diminishing very rapidly from the fourth to the eleventh from its upper margin the 11th to 15th rays nearly equal remaining rays very rapidly shortening.
Centre of base of pectoral in a line with a line drawn from the tip of the snout through the centre of the pupil.
Ventrals very small less than twofifths as long as the pectorals.
Length of inner side of upper lobe of caudal a little less than fth of the length of the fish to end of middle caudal rays  lower lobe slightly shorter.
Lateral line diverging gradually from the dorsal outline as far as the origin of the second dorsal where it lies slightly below the upper third of the height thence curving downwards rapidly to a vertical from the front of the first dorsal finlet thence in an undulating line along the centre of the depth to the caudal keel.
A low keel convergent posteriorly above and below the central keel of the caudal peduncle.
Long narrow scales on the region behind the eye along each side of the dorsal outline and on the peduncle of the tail  remainder of body naked.
Color of the upper portions dark steel blue becoming silvery below no streaks.
The specimen in the possession of the Cal.
Acad of Sciences was obtained in San Francisco Market and was probably taken as were previously examined specimens of this species in Monterey Bay.
It is said to occasionally straggle as far north as San Francisco or even Tom ales Bay.
136 1879.
Total length to cud of middle rays of caudal Length of head Greatest depth of body about Longitudinal diameter of eye Length of snout Width between orbits .
From tip of snout to origin of first dorsal Length of base of ditto .
From tip of snout to origin of second dorsal    anal Length of pectoral Length of upper lobe of caudal along posterior margin Length of ventrals ncbes.
21  'H 19' 3 2 A H 4 4 m hi 2
3f 1 I'.i .
'i A'.iyi iv .l.ir.t irih r .
  3. f j..   vl Wftt 1 Vlnit  j3.
I '.sC  710. '
m zp.
20.
1 j8.
v 21 .
 'r'f papUlosa  iiir.
pmtf'icii Jo 24hrjp7it7lT Sp 7 8.
It.
tit ynarina ForsH lolj.
IZabeltina iodatea Cooper .
i JU.
 ri '. rfit i'ifiiiir Cooper.
28 20.
Jtendron .
purpztreuf .Ugh  .v 21 J.
.PaVz .
j37i .
'.
' A'.iy in sl.i.i 7Nu.Ubr FIJI.. 7 ' 46. y 9 J2 .
 .
vi U J V  j3 4 j I.
 c'iiis.v  i iyi .
yi.y rfer.
p 12.
DcndrOTUttua Jti7 .
Ji7 Mi Flo h iodine C. .
. r r  s  n ''.
A'.iy.
i .'.iAr 6. '
Nuhr .
'  7 4    I V 16 m5.
 1. i3.
' 'r '.'.
 Vvj notti.
i' arhorettoerut If..
 .Z.
.
pujpiirrn.r  JB .
7 .
 ' ' J.2 .
6.
3. i3.
 s      S JL.
X JteryA JL 4 DcndroTV nrlo7 T. JJ2.
Trit tetrajn etrt .
J.3.
k7lxttjeenr .
JijjTts.
.
f rnni TIZwi xo.
 ....r Pi I XL.
6. '
3. r 5.
 4 l3.
J2 S. x5.
 i.
  2 .T r tvera it 3 J ' SMeis Coojr .
Earn Mw 7.. ntj . tiit.rcrn.t .
J.
'O .
J.im .'. .
' III ..i.r.
i ...r '  71 j j c  12 .
i.V 20. jS. r 1 M 2 j .
 SO.
.
rcin.r.y vi.r  Ay '1 2122. ilntfrnr repcmda.
I .'
 'U.T Mtpl in .A.. ' ' .
.
IZ  .iS Gull r p   t Jt  Js
20.C r . 
U .. A' irrfft .'.
. r .
I . Pi A..A J.
2 Aiy.
7tctejcnr .
Ji .
3 t .
zU rep  A. et JT.
PROC A. N. S. PHILA 1879.
PL IX.
CHAPMAN ON THE CHIMPANZEE PROC.
A. N. S. PHI LA. 1879.
PL.
X. CHAPMAN ON FHE CHIMPANZEE.
PROC A N S.
PHILA. 1879 PL.
XL APMAN ' HE MIM'PANZEE PROC.
A. N. S. PHIIA 1879.
PL XII.
CHAPMAN ON THE CHIMPANZEE.
April 1.
The President Dr. Rtjschenberger in the chair.
Fortytwo persons present.
The death of Geo.
B.
Wood M.D. a member was announced.
On Hybrid Fuchsias.
Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a seedling fuchsia which had been obtained from F. syringsejlora that had been pollenised by a garden hybrid named Inimitable.
Mr. M. detailed the precautions taken to avoid the use by the flower of its own pollen.
This one exhibited was the only one that had foliage and habit exactly like its female parent and the flowers were also alike in every particular.
The five remaining had not yet flowered but were more or less unlike the female parent and unlike each other in appearance.
The foliage of one yet to flower was very much like the male parent and one plant which had been destroyed by an accident last summer was exactly like the male parent.
The chief point of interest was that the pollen from one single flower operating in one single pistil and resulting in one single berry should produce such a dissimilar progeny.
Note on the Adoption of an AntQueen.
Mr. McCook reported the following case of the adoption of a fertile queen of Crematogaster lineolata a small black ant by a colony of the same species.
The queen was taken in Fairmount Park April 16th and on May 14th following was introduced to workers of a nest taken the same day.
The queen was alone within an artificial glass formicary and several workers were introduced.
One of these soon found the queen exhibited much excitement but no hostility and immediately ran to her sister workers all of whom were presently clustered upon the queen.
As other workers were gradually introduced they joined their comrades until the body of the queen who is much larger than the workers was nearly covered with them.
They appeared to be holding on by their mandibles to the delicate hairs upon the female's body and continually moved their antennae caressingly.
This sort of attention continued until the queen escorted by workers disappeared in one of the galleries.
She was entirely adopted and thereafter was often seen moving freely or attended by guards about the nest at times engaged in attending the la'rvse and nymphs which had been introduced with the workers of the strange colon'.
The workers were fresh from their own natural home and the queen had been in an artificial home for a month.
As among ants the workers of different nests aie usually hostile to each 10 other this adoption of an alien queen is an example of the strong instinct which controls for preservation of the species.
April 8.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtyfive persons present.
April 15.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication  Placenta of Macacus Cynomolgus.
By H. C. Chapman M.D.
Description of a new species of Chirocephalus.
By John A. R3'der.
The death of Isaac Hays M.D. a member was announced.
On Special Fecundity in Plants At the meeting of the Botanical Section Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited specimens and remarked on the curious fact that special fecundity was not confined to individuals of any one species of plants but the species themselves often exhibited peculiar fertility as other species again were characterized b an indisposition to produce seed.
Occasionally whole families or natural orders of plants exhibited these peculiarities.
In our greenhouses the Begonia which has male and female flowers separately on the same plant some species had an unusual preponderance of fertile female flowers others as for instance Begonia glaucophylla had never borne a female flower within his observation.
The race of Primroses were famous for an apparent abhorrence of their own pollen rarely producing any seeds unless the plant had the chance to receive pollen from some other plant but the Madeira Primrose Primula involucrata was a remarkable selffertilizer and every flower apparently under the most varied circumstances produced an immense quantity of seeds.
As illustrations of the infertility of some natural families Asclepiadise and Apocynaceas were quoted.
In these we have the common Hoya or Wax plant the Oleander the common Silkw r eeds in which thousands of flow r ers are produced for every one that results in a seed vessel.
In this part of the world at least the Trailing Arbutus rarely if ever produces perfect seed.
April 22.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyseven persons present.
Notice of a New Panropod.
Mr. J.
A. Ryder described a new mj r riapod which he had recently discovered and which turned out to be nearly allied to the form described by Sir John Lubbock under the name of Pauropus.
The specimens which the speaker had obtained were five in number and had but six segments fewer than any other known member of the group whilst the number of pairs of legs was nine the same as in Pauropus which is very strong evidence that the specimens are adults.
The following characterization of the genus and species was proposed Eurypauropus spinosus gen. et sp.
nov.
Body segments six in number sixth exceedingly rudimentary antennae fivejointed legs in nine pairs equidistant tergal sclerites laterally expanded so as to conceal the legs almost entirely when the animal is viewed from above and covered with fine tubercles which are joined to each other by raised lines  appressed curved spines are also scattered over their surface in less number and also fringe their margins being disposed at regular intervals the spines and lines give the dorsal surface of the little creature a slightly silky lustre when viewed with reflected light.
Color a delicate light brown.
Mouthorgans the same as in the firstdescribed genus.
No evideuce of eyes could be detected.
Length th of an inch  width about Jgth of an inch.
Habitat in Fairinount Park Philadelphia east and west of Schuylkill under decaying wood.
The tergal sclerites are much thicker than in Pauropus having the characteristic brown color of chitin when viewed with transmitted light.
The antennas have the terminal globular hyaline body with a long pedicle as in Pauropus pedunculatus.
The tjpe is the most distinct form discovered since the detection of the first known representatives in England in 1866 and also extends the geographical range of the family and does much towards fully establishing the Pauropoda as a distinct order of myriapods.
Bo Snakes Swallow their Young
Mr. Meehan remarked that European zoologists 3'et seemed incredulous that young snakes would enter their mothers' mouths for protection when frightened.
He had witnessed such an occurrence but it had been suggested that his eyes deceived him.
Professor Brown Goode had collected ' evidence sufficient he thought for American zoologists to believe in.
Similar facts came to us from Australia.
He read a part of a letter to himself from Baron Ferdinand Von Mueller of Melbourne stating that two observers whom Dr. M. believed perfectly credible had independently of each other witnessed similar protection in that country.
Dr. Kenderdine said he had personally seen a case where a garter snake so protected its young.
Mode of Depositing Anteggs.
Mr. McCook stated that a queen of the black carpenter ant Gamponotus Pennsylvanicus whieh had long been kept in an artificial nest had once been seen in the act of depositing an egg.
The queen was at the time clinging to the side of a hollow in the surface of the earth almost in a vertical position.
The usual bodyguard of workers quite surrounded her continually touching her with their antennae.
The egg was a white cylindrical object about oneeighth of an inch in length.
It was about two minutes in escaping from the body and as soon as dropped was carried below within the galleries by a worker.
The queen was never left by her bodyguard who sought to control her movements by pressing around her blocking up the path which she wished to take.
Frequently more vigorous persuasions were used an antenna or leg being grasped by a worker and the queen thus pulled backward.
She made no attacks upon her guard but often stubbornly held her own way though commonly yielding more or less graciously to her attendants.
This colony had been received from the Allegheny Mountains in December within their formicary in an oak bough in which they were hibernating being quite stiff with cokl.
They immediately revived in the warmth and were healthy and active during the following spring.
The queen survived until September following and would doubtless have lived longer had she not been neglected during a prolonged absence in summer.
She outlived all her subjects and was certainly more than a year old.
April 29.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtyeight persons present.
Note on the Marriageflights of Lasius flavus and Myrmica Jobricornis.
Rev.
H. C. McCook remarked that the first named ant is one of the most familiar objects in nature.
Its small dusk3' yellow workers may be seen in every American lawn walk field and yard throwing up its fragile moundlets of sandpellets and swarming upon particles of fruit crumbs bones dead insects and all manner of sweets.
It is quite cosmopolitan in its distribution and is well known in Europe.
The following observation of the annual marriageflight of the sexes was made September 5 1878 in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
The nests observed were located directty in and on the grassy border of a trodden path in a farmyard.
At 4 P. M the males and females were seen coming out and reentering the gate amid great excitement on the part of the workers.
The females particularly were followed by workers who  teased them occasionally by gentty nipping them with their mandibles.
The flight of the young queens was with few exceptions made from the top of stalks of grass where they clung for several minutes poising themselves spreading their wings and swaying up and down.
Even to these elevations the workers followed them hastening their flight by occasional nips.
When the queen rose in flight there was no evidence of feebleness or inexperience except in some cases a slight tendency to a zigzag course for the first few yards.
The flight was then and in most cases from the very first also strong and in a straight course.
The insect first rose to a height of about 20 feet which was soon increased to 40 50 and even 60 feet estimated and this latter height was maintained until the form was lost to sight.
lie was able to follow the ants in several instances to a distance of more than 300 feet before they disappeared at which time the 7 gave no sign of alighting.
Some were seen to alight at the distance of 60 and 80 feet others flew into a large buttonwood tree within 30 feet of the nest.
The flight was in every case solitary and was in all directions although generally in the direction of the breeze.
The males were in the mean time continually taking flight urged thereto by teasing workers each separately and wholly independent of other males and of the females as to the time and direction of flight.
This fact led Mr. McCook to infer that the pairing of the sexes must have occurred within the nest before departure therefrom.
Except in the case of those individuals who lit upon the buttonwood tree there appeared no opportunity for a meeting after flight.
There was nothing in all the facts to suggest the idea of a future consort.
The same feature of independent and solitary flight of the sexes had been observed in the swarming of the Shining Slavemaker Polyergus lucidus.
This is in marked contrast with the habit of some other ants as illustrated in an observation subsequently given.
Before taking flight the L. flavus females spent some time in combing and cleansing themselves.
A female was placed among the workers of another nest not more than a yard distant from her own in order to test the treatment of an alien.
She was immediately attacked fiercely and would no doubt have been soon killed had she not been removed.
In two formicaries from which the above marriageflight occurred it was observed that the doors were closed about 4i P. M. b r bits of dry grass and pellets of soil.
They so remained during the night or at least were found closed in the morning.
Three days thereafter several males were found nestled under a chip by the roadside.
As soon as the chip was turned up two of these were seized by a couple of prowling ants of the species Tetramorium caespitum and Formica Sehauffussi and carried off as prey a suggestion of the common fate of emmet masculines.
His attention had been called to an article in a Hollidaysburg Pennsylvania journal which reported a remarkable swarm of ants that had crossed that town on the 13th September 1876.
He immediately wrote to Rev.
D. H. Barron a citizen of the place and a gentleman of intelligence and prudence giving certain points which it was desirable to ascertain.
The ants in the course of their flight had come in contact with the mechanics at work upon the tower of the new courthouse whom it was reported they had assaulted vigorously.
Mr. Barron visited these men and after a careful interview communicated the following facts  The flight actually occurred substantially as reported the day was clear warm and calm the ants came between 10 and 11 A.M. from the direction of the Chimney Rocks a ridge of the mountain on the southeast of the town.
As to numbers the answers of the men were as follows so thick you could hardly see through them swarms about 30000
The ants struck the building at the height of about 120 or 125 feet and certainly assaulted the men.
Whether the attack was a bite or a sting they could not tell but it was something very uncomfortable and they would not like to have it repeated.
The ants were of two sizes some larger some smaller.
One of the men had saved some specimens which were sent to Mr. McCook and proved to be the males and females of Myrmica lobricornis Nylander.
These ants can inflict a painful sting but probably attacked the workmen simply in selfdefence that is the men happened to obstruct their flight and naturally vigorously brushed off the insects who lit upon them who in turn becoming irate applied their stings.
Such a vast horde as this swarm contained must have been composed of the winged inmates of many formicaries on the mountain side.
This is quite in contrast with the solitary flight of Lasius Jiavus as described in a former note.
The pairing of the sexes was probabljin the air or after alighting as in the case of the agricultural ant.
1 Mr. McCook had taken ants of the same subfamily Myrmicidse while they were in the act of pairing in the air.
In connection with the above notes on the queenlife of ants he presented an observation reported to him by Mr. Jos.
Wilcox.
This gentleman had seen a colony of some species of Gamponotus occupying a large dead Cyprus tree standing in the midst of a Cyprus swamp in Florida at least 600 feet from the shore.
The tree was wholly isolated from the land and from all surrounding vegetation except another fallen Cyprus tree which leaned up against it.
Evidently a fertilized queen had at some time flown from the land to this tree where she had established the colony.
1 Agricultural Ant of Texas p. 143.
The fact is interesting as indicating the origin of formicaries from single queens as myrmecologists have supposed to be frequently if not commonly the case.
Further as showing the ability.
of a large number of ants this nest was reported to consist of vast numbers to maintain active life under quite circumscribed environment.
The insects sheltered in such numbers by old trees may have furnished a large portion of the food supply.
The specimens brought by Mr. Wilcox were taken from a colony on the land which he supposed to be identical with the swamptree nest and were examples of Camponotus esuriens Smith.
Henry W. Stelwagon M.D. Henry T. Coates Wm.
S. Magee James F. Magee J. J. Kirkbride M.D. and Robert Meade Smith M.D  were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed NOTES ON THE AMPHIUMA.
BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN M.D.
On looking over general works like those of Owen Huxlej 7  Milne Edwards Gegenbaur Stannins etc. in reference to the anatomy of the Perrenibranchiate Batrachia I find that the Amphiuma is only referred to in a general way and with the exception of Cuvier's memoir 1 I do not know of any special paper having been published on the structure of that animal.
Having dissected the Amphiuma that recently died at the Zoological Garden I thought that it might not be uninteresting to notice the disposition of its internal organs.
The specimen was a male and measured twentynine inches.
As regards the alimentary canal the only difference that I noticed in my specimen as compared with that described by Cuvier was that the rectum did not exhibit the constrictions seen in the figure of his specimen.
In other respects such as the longitudinal folds of the stomach the openings into the cloaca etc. they were alike.
The liver and spleen were large and there was a distinct pancreas.
The lungs were well developed and attained a length of thirteen inches which may serve to explain the fact of the animal being able to remain under water such a length of time.
The heart differs from that of the siren in that the auricles are not fringed to the same extent.
The ventricle is large and muscular and is separated from the bulbus arteriosus bj T a short and narrow constriction.
The bulbus bifurcates each branch at once then subdivides into the pulmonary artery and a branchial vessel.
The latter winds around the pharynx and meeting its fellow of the opposite side the two form the aorta.
From the branchial vessel are given off cephalic and hyoid branches.
The blood is returned from the lung to the heart by a pulmonary vein.
As compared with Siredon Menobranchus Siren Proteus and even with the closely allied Menopoma Amphiuma exhibits a very simple and concentrated type of circulation.
I did not notice anything peculiar about the branches given off by the aorta which I examined through its length the vessels supplying the Wolffian bodies were large.
The bladder 1 Cuvier Memoires du Musee.
2 op.
cit. pi.
1 fig.
2 tome 14th.
was long and narrow measuring nine inches it opened into the cloaca.
I can only account for the great length of the bladder in the Arnphiuma and Siren on the supposition that it represents a sort of rudimentary allantois.
This view is strengthened by the fact of the Arnphiuma having very simple limbs and in this respect also foreshadowing higher types of life.
The urogenital apparatus in its general arrangement resembles that of the newt Triton tceniatus.
The testicle however was undivided and measured five and a half inches in length it was situated in the posterior third of the bod cavity.
From the testicle six or seven efferent ducts pass transversely outward to the remains of the upper part of the Wolffian body represented by a chain of dilatations.
From this embryonic remnant pass about twelve tubes into a common urogenital duct which measures nine inches.
This duct runs in a wavy course until it reaches the lower part of the Wolffian bod' or the socalled kidney.
Here the duct becomes straight and lies on the outside of the Wolffian body from which it collects through small tubes the urine.
This common urogenital duct opens into the cloaca posteriorly to the bladder.
I was able by pressing upon the duct to squeeze a considerable amount of semen through its opening into the cloaca which gave me the opportunity of examining the spermatozoa.
These bodies did not exhibit a very well defined head but one end was obtuse and the other tapered off taillike.
Just between the cloaca and abdominal wall I found coiled up a nematoid worm which may be the Ascaris unguiculata.
I found what seemed to be also the same worm in an encysted condition in the intestine and in the mesenterv.
PLACENTA OF MACACUS CYNOMOLOGUS.
BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN M.D.
Comparatively little is known concerning the fetal condition of monkeys.
In those of the New World Platyrhina the placenta is single.
As regards the Anthropoids the placentation in the Gorilla and Ourang is unknown in the Chimpanzee the organ is single  in the Hylobates it is double.
In the remaining Old World monkeys Catarhina the placenta is usually described as being double.
Thus Prof. Owen observes in the tailed Catarhina the placenta is double the two being distinct and apart.
1 According to Prof. Milne Edwards chez les autres singes de l'ancien continent cet organe est divise en deux lobes bien distincts.
2 Prof. Huxley states that the placenta is often bilobed.
3 In the genera Nasalis Semnopithecus Cercopithecits according to Breschet 4 and in the Macacus nemestrinus according to Prof. Rolleston 5 the placenta is double.
In the case of the Macacus nemeslrinus I have confirmed Prof. Rolleston's observation in two instancesHaving recently made a postmortem examination of a pregnant Macacus cynomolgus which died at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden of phthisis I was surprised to find on opening the uterus that the placenta was single contrary to what might have been expected.
As the opportunity rarely presents itself of examining in situ the foetus and membranes of a monkey it appears to me proper to communicate the results of my dissection.
In opening the uterus I found that it measured from side to side 7 inches and was th inch thick.
The placenta single and discoid in form measured 3.V inches in its longest diameter and 2 inches in its shortest.
The umbilical cord was 7 inches in length and consisted of the umbilical vein and the two hypogastric arteries.
The umbilical vein passed into the liver of the foetus and the hypogastric arteries into the internal iliacs.
The foetus measured from crown of head to tail 6 inches the tail itself measuring 7 inches.
In ' Comparative Anatomy vol.
iii. p. 748.
2 Anatomie Comparee Tome neuvieme p. 554.
 Anatomy of Vertebrates p. 402.
 Etudes sur l'ceuf.
s Trans of Zool.
Society 1865. reference to the membranes the amnion and chorion adhered together and were in contact with the decidua.
As the pregnancy was far advanced I cannot state whether there was a decidua reflexa at least it was undistinguishable from the decidua vera.
In every respect the disposition of all the parts strikingly resembled those of the human being under similar conditions.
