DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF CHIROCEPHALUS.
BY JOHN A. RYDER.
The genus Ghirocephalus does not seem to have been noticed up to the present time in North America; 1 therefore take much pleasure in announcing the discovery of a hitherto undescribed species of the genus in the vicinity of Woodbury, New Jersej', where it was found in abundance in the ditches by Mr. AY.
P. Seal, a resident of the place, and an indefatigable collector of the minute life of his neighborhood.
The genus, as characterized by Dr. Wm.
Baird, 1 has been found in Switzerland, France, England, Russia, and Siberia.
The species C. lacunae, most nearly like the one I am about to describe, is figured and described by Guerin in his Iconog.
Regne Animate, as being found at Fontainebleau, France.
The differences between our species and Guerin's are, however, sufficiently striking and constant to characterize a well-marked specific type, and I accordingly propose the following specific characterization of the American form.
Chirocephalus holmanii, nov. sp.
Char, specif.
Claspers moderately robust ; second joint forked, longest branch longer than first joint, and curved inwards, its tip crossing that of its fellow of the opposite side when in repose ; shorter branch less curved, slightly swollen, and rough on the inner surface of its tip, about half as long as the longer branch.
Two long fleshy proboscis-like prehensile organs arise from the bases of the claspers and are coiled up between the latter; muscular fibres pass throughout their length; near their origin and for the first third they are expanded inferiorly into a thin margin with about seven papilliform processes; they then gradually contract, becoming cylindrical at their second third, where about seven well-marked digitiform processes are found, the longest of which are about as long as twice the diameter of the proboscis at this point; the remaining third gradually contracts, and is thickly studded with half rings of small papillae which seem to mark 1 Monograph of the Family Branchipodidse, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., 2d ser., vol.
xiv., 1854, p. 216-229.
1879.]
149 indistinctly the segments of the organ.
Total length of the proboscis, when extended, about three times that of the claspers.
Total length 12-14 mm.
Habitat, Woodbury, New Jersey.
Y$r Head of male with proboscidiform organs uncoiled, from the side.
Same, viewed from before, with [iroboscidiform organs coiled up and retracted between the claspers.
Head of female from above.
I name the above species in honor of Mr. D. S. Holman, Actuary of the Franklin Institute, in recognition of the services he has rendered in devising methods for studying living objects, both large and small, under the microscope, and to whom I am also indebted for the specimens from which the above description has been taken.
The detection of a member of the genus in this country is very interesting, but less so than the detection of Pauropus huxleyi Lubbock, in the vicinity of Philadelphia, without any difference, as far as Mr. Lubbock's excellent plates of English specimens would enable one to judge, that would make it even a variety, although removed by more than 3000 miles of ocean from its congeners.
It has been suggested, however, that, inasmuch as Philadelphia is an old English settlement, Pau?-o])us may have been introduced, but in the case of Chirocephalus such an explanation is less open to acceptance.
May 6.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-one persons present.
Pairing of Spiders, Linyphia marginata.
Rev.
H. C. McCook remarked that on the afternoon of June 14, 1878, he witnessed the pairing of a male and female of Linyphia marginata at Bellwood, Blair Co., Penna.
The spiders were first observed at a quarter before 4 o'clock P. M. They were hanging inverted in the dome-shaped nest of the species, in line with each other, and about three-quarters inch apart.
Each hung within a smaller dome, delicately but perceptibly defined, that rose within the summit.
These were perhaps formed by the outspread feet drawing down the inner surface of the dome.
The position of these individuals seeming to indicate the act of copulation, he arranged himself before them as comfortabty as possible for observation.
The nest was hung from the lower surface of an end of a plank that jutted over from a pile of lumber, about two and a half feet from the ground, so that, seated before the nest, his face was on a level with the spiders.
The male reached out one foot cautiously toward the female, pulling upon the threads.
He turned a moment to adjust the block on which he sat, and, on again looking, the' two were in embrace.
The female was suspended in the same position as before, although turned at right angles to the line on which she hung when first seen.
The head of the male was laid against the sternum of the female, the abdomen inclined a little upward, the forelegs interlocked with or rather interlaid upon those of the female.
Both spiders were suspended by threads, in the normal way.
This was at 9 minutes before 4 P.M. After a moment's embrace the pair separated ; the female made a circuit of the lower part of the dome, moving in an excited, jerking manner, then returned to the summit.
The male approached, the female stretching out her forelegs somewhat, as he laid his two forelegs within them, which position was maintained, as was the relative position of the two during the entire period of copulation.
The female during the act remained perfectly motionless except an occasional twitching of the apex of the abdomen.
The two terminal bulbs upon the male palp were laid upon the epigynum of the female, and pressed downward.
From one of these issued the sac, a bean-shaped organ, of a bright amber color, and translucent, which shone brilliantly in the sun that fell full upon it from the west.
It remained thus projected, held between the finger-like tufted horn of the bulb, for a brief space, was then gradually contracted and withdrawn within the black corneous bulb, which was meanwhile pressed eagerly against the epigynum.
A small elbow or projection upon the upper part of the bulb seemed to press within the spermatheca of the epigynum.
The two bulbs were laid simultaneously upon the tubes of the spermathecse, but the inflated sac appeared in but one bulb at a time ; the latter action alternated in the bulb.
There was a prolonged squeezing motion of the bulbs, as though pressing into the spermathecae, and at times a corresponding motion in the abdomen of the female, especially at the apex.
With this exception the female remained motionless during the whole period of copulation.
After application as above the male bulb was slowly, for the most part, but sometimes rapidly, raised, bent upward, and apparently clasped upon the falces or lower margin of the face, which parts of course were upward.
Three or four movements back and forth in this clinched position followed, when the series of motions above described was repeated.
In the meanwhile the other bulb remained upon the other tube until the first bulb began to descend, when it in turn was elevated, and the same motion made.
As the bulb descended the sac began to inflate and issue.
The above is the process as it was quite regularly repeated.
Sometimes, however, both bulbs were clinched upon the falces at the same time; sometimes the movements of the bulb were more rapid than at others.
The bulbs had the appearance of having been moistened by some secretion, presenting the peculiar gloss which a colorless liquid gives to a black surface, but he could see no secretion otherwise, although he was able at any time to use his pocket lens with the exercise of a little care.
At twenty minutes before 6 six o'clock he was compelled to leave, at which time the pair had been in embrace one hour and forty-nine minutes.
At six o'clock twenty-eightminutes he returned, and found the pair in precisel}' the same positions.
He remained five minutes, and then left an intelligent young man at the post, with full instructions as to points of observation.
He reported that at thirteen and a half minutes to seven P. M. the pair parted very suddenly.
The male ran downward to a portion in the lower margin of the dome pursued by the female, who stopped suddenly just above and turned back to the central point in the summit of the dome.
Shortly after receiving this report Mr. McCook visited the nest and found the female suspended motionless in this position and the male at the point to which he had fled, feeding upon a small fly.
The next morning at seven o'clock the female was in the same position, and the male had disappeared.
He attempted to capture the female, but she ran among the boards and escaped.
The pair had thus been in union two hours and fifty-five and a half minutes.
During this period they were separated a number of times.
Nineteen of these interruptions were noted; one was caused by a small fly striking the snare, which the male darted at in a fierce manner, but failed to seize, as the fly broke loose before he reached it.
Others were caused by the observer touching the foundation threads or other parts of the nest.
Toward the close of his observations he aecidently broke the suspending lines nearest to him and so caused one side of the dome to fall in.
This made only a momentary interruption.
Many of these separations were, however, apparently without any extraneous cause.
Twice the male ran to one side of the dome, made a web attachment to a bit of leaf hanging in the snare, drew out a thread about two and a half inches long, which he overlaid a couple of times, and then made the following motion : First, the bod} r was placed erect, i.e., back upward, and was moved back and forth along the line, rubbing the points or " nippers" of the palps at the same time ; then the spider swung over until the body made an angle of about 45 with the line, and while holding on thus the palps were rubbed back and forth alternately along the line as before.
The process was repeated during another of the intermissions, as described above.
It was conjectured that the purpose of this movement might be the distribution of the seminal fluid into the palpal bulbs.
This is taken up by the sacs, by the inflation and contraction of whose membranous coats it is forced into the spermathecae of the female.
May 13.
Wm, S. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair.
Thirty-three persons present.
The Lateral Sensory Ajiparatus of Fishes.
Dr. Francis Dercum called the attention of the Academy to the so-called mucous canals, or system of the lateral line in fishes.
Up to the year 1850 these structures had been regarded as glandular, that is, as secreting mucus for the purpose of lubricating the general surface of the body.
However, the following facts at once strike us as being directly contradictory to this view.
In the first place, their size would render them wholly insufficient; secondly, these canals are in most fishes practically closed ; and in some fishes actually closed along their entire course.
Again, in mollusks in which the surface is equally well lubricated with those of fishes we find no such structures.
After referring to the discoveries of Franz Leydig in 1850, and afterwards to the observations of F. E. Schnlze on young teliost fishes, Dr. Dercum offered the following evidence in confirmation of the view that these structures are sensory.
Like Leydig he described as occurring at regular intervals in the canals of the head and lateral line certain discoidal bodies, termed by Leydig nerve-buttons, and in which terminates a nerve fibre.
He corroborated Leydig's statements regarding the existence of a little mass of viscid mucous or jelly-like matter resting on each disk, and also regarding the positions of the disks, i.e., as generally occurring under small bridges of bone in the canals of the head, and as occurring in every scale of the lateral line.
However, the specimens exhibited by him showed a result entirely different from that of Leydig as regards the distribution of the nerves.
Leydig pictures the disk as composed of two distinct areas, a dark or less translucent central portion, and a lighter peripheral portion.
This appearance is, indeed, simulated in the fresh preparation, as the disk is somewhat transparent, and allows the insertion of the nerve fibre to be seen directly through it.
No such appearance, however, is presented in specimens treated by osmic acid.
A dense, arborescent plexus of nerve-fibres comes into view, and the distinction into two areas entirely disappears.
The size of the entering nerve as compared with the size of the disk is relatively very great, so that when the dense plexus of nerves makes its appearance it strikes one as though the bulk of the disk were nerve matter.
Indeed, besides a large number of capillaries it contains only a small amount of connective tissue.
Owing to the want of the proper material, Dr. Dercum had not been able to confirm the observations of F. E. Schulze on young fishes.
However, transverse sections of the disks macerated in osmic acid and teased, yielded essentially the same results as regards the structure of the epithelium.
Tins appears to consist of two kinds of cells, one long and cylindroid, the other small and globose or pyriform, and having long outrunners penetrating the subjacent connective tissue.
These outrunners are probably continuous with nerve-fibres, which they resemble.
The drawings representing the connections of the nerves with the cells, given by F. E. Schulze for the " nerve-hills" of young fishes, are, therefore, very probably correct, but the material at hand did not permit an absolute decision of the point.
The hairs of these perceptive cells were readily distinguished, but were generally broken and mutilated, owing doubtless to the reagents and teasing.
As is well knOwn, the canals of the head are generally provided with bony supports, which form grooves, and which are at intervals generally bridged over by bone.
Thus certain membranous interspaces of greater or less size are produced.
In some fishes, as Centropomus undecimalis, the bon}' bridges are more or less wanting, so that a comparatively large expanse of membrane is formed stretched between the two walls of the canal.
These membranes are, of course, composed of two elements.
They consist, first, of the delicate connective tissue and flattened epithelium belonging to the canal, and, secondly, of the dense layer of connective tissue and epithelium belonging to the skin.
The two layers can be readily separated by a careful dissection.
Each 11 membrane, were it stretched tightly, would form functionally a drum-head.
It is, however, quite loose, and will fluctuate readily on pressure.
The function attributed to this apparatus by F. E. Schulze, that these structures appreciate mass movements of the water, and also waves having longer periods than those appreciated by the ear, is no doubt the correct one.
However, the canals cannot act in the manner suggested by Schulze, i.e., by allowing the water to flow freely through them, as such a free communication with the surrounding medium as is implied, is not present.
As already stated, in some fishes the canals are completely closed along their entire course, and when openings are present, they are probably for the purpose of maintaining an equilibrium of pressure within and without the apparatus.
The true detailed action of these organs is probably as follows : Let us suppose any disturbing cause to set up a wave of long period in the w r ater.
It impinges, first, on the membranous interspaces or drum-heads before spoken of, and with the greatest intensity, of course, on those which are most nearly placed at right angles to its direction.
The wave is thus communicated to the liquid in the canals, which transmits it to the adjacent masses of jelly-like mucus covering the disks.
The quivering of these little masses probably excites and intensifies vibrations of the hairs of the perceptive cells.
The fish probably judges of the direction of the disturbing cause by the portion of the apparatus most intensely excited.
The membranous spaces or drum-heads, when the apparatus is well developed, are so arranged as to favor the perception of vibrations from almost all directions.
Dr. Dercum suggested that it would be well, in view of the confusion existing in the present names of the dermal structures of fishes, to call these organs definitely the lateral sensory apparatus of fishes.
This would, of course, not include the sensory ampullae of the sharks and rays, nor the Savian vesicles, which have already distinctive names.
In view of the structural resemblance of the sensory disks to the maculae acusticae, he proposed to call them the maculse laterales, giving a specific signification to the word macula.
May 20.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty persons present.
Note on Mound-making Ants.
Mr. McCook said that he had had an opportunit}' to spend a day (June 12) on the Allegheny Mountains, above Birmingham, Huntingdon Co., Pa., observing the habits of Formica exsecloides, our mountain mound-builder.
While standing near a yellow pine tree whose roots ran into a large double mound, his attention was attracted by a continuous and peculiar rasping sound.
This was produced by ants who were scattered over the surface of the trunk engaged in scooping out with their mandibles the bark thereof.
The gray outer hark had been removed in many places, and the reddish-brown bark beneath cut awaj r so as to give the tree a marked spotted appearance.
The excavated portions covered a surface at times of two or three square inches, and were from one-sixteenth to one-eighth of an inch in depth.
The pellets were sometimes allowed to accumulate in the mandibles, but were generally rejected as soon as cut off, and dropped to the earth.
In only two cases was there any application of the tongue to the bark.
No other tree was observed to be thus marked.
The purpose of this curious behavior could not be conjectured.
The directness with which the foragers take the home path was thus illustrated.
One worker was seen by his companion, Mr. Kay, to seize a small green insect, with which she immediately turned homeward.
She was followed patiently with her burden to the nest, a distance of 126 feet, and her path upon measurement was found to be a direct line.
She was twice attacked upon the route, once by several workers of the same species ; she hid from these assailants beneath a leaf and waited until they dispersed.
The second time she was assaulted by two workers from whom she escaped by running.
Once she rested for one half a minute.
A number of times she met foragers apparently of her own nest, for after antennal salutations she passed peacefully on.
The direct line was in no case interrupted.
In turning up a number of stones in the neighborhood of various mounds, liosts of white ants, Termes flavipes, were uncovered, who were instantly attacked by the roving exsectoides, and carried off in their jaws.
These termites evidently are preyed upon by the mound builders.
.Nests of small true ants, exposed in a similar way, were similarly dealt with.
A sjreat number of abandoned and moss-grown moundswere seen here.
In some cases, one part of the hill was occupied and the other abandoned.
In the unoccupied parts when washed out by the rains, the exposed walls of the galleries presented a pretty columnar appearance, which was made more striking by the overcovering moss.
As the evening advanced attention was directed to the gates to note if any attempt would be made to close them.
Previous studies, made later in the summer, had failed to detect any such effort.
Five doors not far removed from each other upon the side of a large mound, were put under close observation.
These were watched until the night was too far advanced to allow further notice, at which time, three doors were quite closed and two nearly so.
There appeared to beaconflict of behavior on the part of the workers, some carrying the pellets of earth quite out of the galleries as usual, while others dropped them near the mouth or door.
The evening was quite cool and Mr. McCook's impression was that the ants who dropped the pellets within or just outside of the doors were probably caused to do so by the sense of cold with which they were met.
Feeling the cold air as they approached the gate, instead of pushing out, they stopped, dropped the pellet, and turned back.
Thus the grains accumulated, giving the appearance of an intentional closing.
Through the doors which were nearty closed an ant head and antennas could occasionally be seen peeping forth.
May 27.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-four persons present.
Charles H. Pennypacker and Robert S. Davis were elected members.
June 3.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-one members present.
June 10.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The deaths of Wm.
W. Longstreth and F. F. Maury, M.D., members, were announced.
Combats and Nidification of the Pavement Ant, Tetramorium Csespitum.
Mr. McCook.
exhibited a large glass jar containing a nest of this ant made by captives taken from a city garden.
During the month of May immense numbers of this species have been seen along our sidewalks, in yards and gardens, engaged in combat.
From one of these masses of struggling insects, three large groups were taken and placed in separate jars.
The transfer had no visible effect in separating the combatants.
Into one jar (No.
1) a pellet saturated in cologne was introduced.
Instantly, as in the case of experiments previously reported, 1 the combatants separated, and buried themselves pell-mell in the earth.
Not an 1 Mode of Recognition among Ants, Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., p. 15, 1878. ant remained above the surface.
The pellet was removed, and the jar thoroughly aired; whereupon the ants speedily began to reappear.
They seemed to be confused somewhat by the fumes of the cologne, but soon began to dig galleries.
Only two pairs resumed the fight, and these shortly unclasped mandibles.
There was no resumption of hostilities thereafter, and the two parties appeared to interblend and fraternize completely.
In the second jar (No.
2), the one exhibited, the ants were left undisturbed.
The battle continued for two days.
It was waged over the entire surface of the earth within the jar.
Ever} clod and other elevation was the seat of one or more duels, for, as a general rule, the fight was waged by twos, but also frequently by threes.
The duelists seized each other by the head, frequently interclasping mandibles, and pulling backward or swaying back and forth.
Again, one would have her antagonist grasped by the face above the mandibles, which placed the latter at a great disadvantage.
In such cases, and in others also, both ants would be reared upon the hind and middle legs, with abdomens turned under, and stinging organs thrust out.
When three ants were battling in one group, the third commonly held her opponent by a leg, or had seized her by the abdomen or thorax.
Occasionally the exertions of the combatants caused them to roll upon the ground.
At the close of the first day, numbers had retired from the conflict and perched upon the sides of the jar.
On the third day the battle had ceased, and the ants were engaged in excavating galleries.
Whether the survivors were all of one party could not be determined, except inferentially by the following experiment.
The jar which had been fumed with cologne (No.
1) was introduced into jar No.
2, which was large enough to admit it.
The ants in No.
1, who had been hostile, were then working together harmoniously.
The}', in turn, soon interblended with those in No.
2, all thus composing one apparently united formicary.
It thus appears, whatever may have been the cause of the combat, that, first, the influence of the cologne fumes completely pacified and united the contending parties; and, second, that the previous hostility was no barrier to their forming one harmonious nest.
Subsequently the jar was placed uncovered in the open air and was abandoned by all but a few of the ants within two days; There were many dead bodies, which were gathered in one large heap, that each day was increased by the death of the (probably) injured.
This "graveyard" was subsequently changed to another spot, but the dead were kept together as they now are.
In at least one case noted the cause of the ant battle seemed quite clear.
The warring insects were spread thickly over a surface of nearly a square foot of the sidewalk, quite near the curbstone.
The centre of this struggling mass was a quantity of fatty matter which had been thrown on and around the seams of the bricks through which a large formicary had made its gates.
From the battle field a column of ants, three or four lines deep, stretched along a depression caused by a shallow surface drain to a second nest just under a gate that led through a wall into the house-yard.
Evidently the ants from the curb formicary had fallen upon the unctuous treasures which had dropped by their doors, but had been disturbed in their "feast of fat things'' by stragglers from the gate nest.
The stragglers were attacked ; others came, and in time were attacked ; messengers ran to the gate nest for reinforcements; fresh squadrons issued from the curb colony, and thus the battle grew.
When it was first seen a single line of ants was stretched from battle ground to gate, and a double line from gate to battle field.
The ants in these columns were in the utmost agitation.
As they hurried along, fairly a-quiver with excitement.
they suggested strongly the outward mien and behavior of human beings running to and from a fire, a riot, or a fight.
Mr. McCook was not able to watch the issue of this ant battle, but had no doubt that the above is the true theory of its origin.
It is probable that many similar conflicts originate in like rivalries for the possession of food The system of galleries excavated by these insects is precisely like that of most other mason ants.
It is a network of galleries for the most part from one-sixteenth to one-eighth inch wide, but with frequent greatly widened portions.
The "meshes" or solid interspaces vary much in size.
The galleries were made against the inner surface of the jar, and thus are entirely visible.
The ants seemed to have no objection to working in the light.
The principal galleries have a tendency more or less regular to the vertical and horizontal, but the impression was made by the mode of operations that the workers were rather influenced by some accidental feature or quality of the soil, than directed by any intelligent plan, in laying out and driving the galleries.
The behavior of the ants gave to a human observer the impression of unconscious action, not of forethought.
On the contrary, a glance at the series of galleries, as.
thus far completed, shows an arrangement admirably suited for the purposes of a nest.
The cross-galleries are all inclined at various degrees of inclination, leading into each other and out of the surface-gates by grades which afford easy passage.
There is thus a mechanical advantage in the very irregularity of the arrangement.
It is not improbable, to say the least, that the muscular system of the ant is so constructed that she unconsciously takes the line of least action in her work, as do human beings and lower animals when climbing the side of a hill, or moving across irregular surfaces.
The thorough interlacing of the galleries affords easy intercommunication throughout the nest.
There is also an evident convergence of the cross galleries at several points upon vertical galleries which are much widened as though to provide for the convenient movements of increased numbers.
The structure of a nest in natural site is obviously more difficult to stud}'.
For the sake of comparison, one was taken which was located on the edge of a brick walk.
The walk was separated from the grass-plat by a line of bricks set on edge.
Several of these and the adjoining flat bricks were removed, thus quite exposing the fomicary to the depth in parts of four inches.
The side of the grass-plat against which the bricks had pressed was pierced by many openings, one-quarter of an inch or more in diameter, leading for the most part directly into ovoid chambers whose longest diameters were from three-fourths of an inch to one inch in length.
One of the largest of these was close to the surface just beneath the grass roots, and was filled with naked larvae of worker ants, most of which were white, a few yellow.
These chambers had interior openings extending into the earth.
They were united together by galleries, where their boundaries did not interblend.
There was an opening directly upward into the grass, but the main avenue for the carriage of excavated earth led downward to the lower edge of the brick, then diagonally upward through the earthen seam of that and the next brick, debouching at the surface and upon the pavement.
Openings downward communicated with this avenue, as did also a broad (three-eighths inch) winding track, which followed the under surface of the brick its entire length, and beyond.
These avenues presented the characteristics of those in the artificial nest, but were larger and not so numerous.
The large larvae of several queens were found in the lower avenues.
The behavior of the ants placed in jar No.
3 was like that of those in No.
2, i. e , the fighting soon ceased, and the work of gallery digging began.
Here, also, it could not be determined whether the survivors were of one party or of both, but the latter was inferred in view of the experiment which showed the interblending of the harmonized hostiles of No.
1 with the survivors of No.
2.
The galleries here were not made against the surface of the glass as in No.
2, but were confined apparently to the interior of the earth, which they must have quite honey-combed, as shown by the quantity of pellets brought up, and by the numerous openings upon the surface.
In this connection Mr. McCook referred to the economy in nature of ants by contributing to the fertilization of the earth.
A comparison between the formicaries of various species shows that all the mason ants substantially agree in (at least) subterraneous nidification.
The example presented of the underground work of Tetramorium will give some idea of the manner in which the earth may be excavated hy a single colon}'.
In a portion of the exposed surface, which presented less rather than more of the average amount of excavation, the gallery surface was measured.
In a space of three square inches there were (approximately) one and nine-sixteenths square inches of gallery surface, or about onehalf of the measured space.
The galleries were in depth fully oneeighth of an inch.
This will give a rude notion of the extent to which the underground space occupied by a single colony is excavated.
Another estimate was made of the quantit} 7 of earth thrown out of a nest in the two days succeeding a heavy rain.
The excavations brought up from the seam of a brick that faced a grass plat, and which were spread along a distance of eight inches, were collected and measured.
The result showed a solid contents of six cubic inches.
This was onty a part of the work of a formicary in the time specified, during only a part of which the ants were engaged in transporting pellets.
The other factor in the calculation is the number of ants of various species spread over any given surface of the earth.
Accuracy of count would be quite impossible; but if one will take pains to observe the number of nests which may be seen in nearly every open tract of country, he will be surprised at its vastness.
In some such rough observations, made in the open field, Mr. McCook had concluded that it would be scarcelj' possible to dig within an}' square foot of surface without uncovering the formicaiy of some, often of several, species of ants.
There is of course a difference in this respect between soils and sections; but the fact is constant that innumerable myriads of ants are everywhere located and operating as above described.
As results of such labor, first, the ground is pulverized and brought in great quantities to the surface, thus making good top soil for the growth of vegetation.
The nest by which these remarks were illustrated shows that, insignificant in size as these insects are, the labors of countless hosts through many years are by no means insignificant in this shifting of the soil.
Second, the aeration of the soil, so needful for its productiveness, is thus largely promoted.
Third, the system of " pores," established by the galleries which everywhere perforate the ground, affords, on the one hand, free entrace for the rains into the earth, and, on the other hand, a series of tubes through which, by capillar}' attraction, the moisture may ascend to the roots of plants.
In this geographical province (Philadelphia) perhaps the most numerous species, and therefore the most effective toward the above results, are T.csespitum and Lasius jlavus, both small species, the largest workers being little more than one-eighth of an inch in length.
The fate of the ants during the late heavy June rains had somewhat occupied Mr. McCook's attention.
Where do the little creatures find refuge?
or do they find any sheltered spot within their nest ?
It would seem that the health and safety of the larvae at least must require some protection from the water.
But he could not satisfy himself that Tetramorium has any such shelters.
The pellets of soil brought up after the rains were all damp, and had evidently been reached b} r the water.
The opened formicary above referred to showed that it had been penetrated, as far as examined, by the water, as the soil was thoroughly soaked through.
The numerous galleries must give more ready access to the rains within formicary bounds than elsewhere.
The points are of much interest, and are still under examination, but the following suggestions were made : First, the peculiar arrangement of the galleries and chambers indicates that the least exposed portion of the nest is that near the surface, in the parts which do not communicate directly with the same.
The main entrance and exit being removed from this, and penetrating downward and heneath it, would cause a drainage which, carrying oft" the first flood, would leave the upper chambers comparatively safe until the water should fill up the lower spaces and back up to the surface rooms.
Second, it is probable that the galleries which penetrate downwards may serve the purpose of drainage downward.
In heavy rains, however, neither of the above arrangements woidd seem to afford ample protection.
Third, it is therefore probable, and observation and some experiments 1 appear to point in this direction, that the ants themselves (if not the larva?)
can endure a submersion more or less prolonged with comparative safety.
Honey Glands on Catalpa Leaves.
Mr. J.
A. Ryder stated at the meeting of the Botanical Section that he had recently observed the presence of a number of large nectar-secreting glands on the under side of the leaves of the common Catalpa bignonioides.
These glands are situated in the axils of the veins of the leaf, i. e., where the lateral veins join the midrib.
Those nearest the insertion of the petiole are largest, whilst toward the apex of the leaf they are smaller.
The glandular areas, extending over a considerable axillary space as well as to some extent over the sides of the veins, are without hairs, the place of the latter being taken by large biscuit-shaped, sub-circular glandular bodies attached to the surface of the leaf much like a button to a piece of cloth, and projecting above the circumjacent epidermis, though at the point where the gland is attached the epidermis is depressed.
The appearance is not much unlike that of the circumvallate papillae of the base of the human tongue.
The glands seemed to be modified hairs, and in thin vertical sections are seen to be composed of columnar cells arranged around a cavity.
The nectar observed in a few instances was perceptibly sweet to the taste, and thrown out in sufficient quantity to be seen as small clear drops in the axils of the veins.
Ants of both red and black species were seen feeding upon this sweet liquid with great avidity.
1 See a brief paper on the Vital Power of Insects, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Phila., 1877, p. 134.
June 17.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-eight persons present.
The death of Win, Adamson, a member, was announced.
On Rhizopods occurring in Sphagnum.
As an instance of the abundance of Rhizopods frequently found together in Sphagnum, Prof. Leidy stated that he had recently collected some from a cedar swamp near Malaga, Gloucester County, N. J., and in the water and sediment expressed from a small bunch, he had observed the following forms: 1.
Difflugia pyriformis.
Var.
a. with shell of coarse sand ; var.
b. with shell of chitinoid membrane with incorporated diatomes and sand.
Occasional.
2.
D. acuminata.
Var.
with shell of chitinoid membrane incorporated with variable proportions of diatomes and sand.
Occasional.
3.
D. conslricta.
Syn.
D. cassis.
Several varieties.
Frequent.
4.
D. arcula.
Shell hemispherical, of yellowish chitinoid membrane, with incorporated sand ; mouth trilobate.
Occasional.
5.
D. globulosa.
Small forms.
Frequent.
6.
D. spiralis.
Rare.
7.
Nebela collaris.
Syn.
N.numata.
Of many varieties, of different sizes and proportions.
Some in the structure of the shell related with Diffiugia.
Abundant.
8.
N. flabellulum.
Few.
9.
N. barbala.
Occasional.
10.
N. ansata.
Occasional.
11.
N. carinata.
Rare.
12.
N. caudata.
Rare.
13.
N. retorta, n. s. A single active living specimen.
Shell retort form, nearly like that of Cyphoderia ampulla, but laterally compressed, and having the structure as in N. collaris.
Length 0.144 mm., greater breadth 0.072 ; lesser breadth 0.036 ; breadth of mouth 0.027 mm.
14 Arcella vulgaris.
Few.
15.
A. discoides.
Frequent.
16.
A. mitrata.
Rare.
17.
Heleopera picta.
Occasional.
18.
H. petricola.
Less frequent than the former, but more so than previously observed.
Shell incorporated with variable proportions of sand.
19.
Quadrula symmetrica.
Occasional.
20.
Centropyxis aculeata.
Occasional.
21.
G. ecornis.
Frequent.
22.
Hyalosphenia papilio.
Not so abundant as usual.
23.
H. elegans.
Not so abundant as usual.
24.
Euglypha ciliata.
Frequent.
Small ones and some of the larger ones hairless.
25.
E. cristata.
Frequent.
26.
E. brachiata.
Occasional.
27.
E. mucronata.
Occasional.
Several without the mucro.
28.
Assulina seminulum.
Syn.
Euglypha brunnea ; E.tincta.
Frequent.
29.
Sphenoderia lenta.
Sj T n. Euglypha globosa.
Frequent.
30.
S. macrolepis, n. s. First observed.
Small, compressed pyriform, with broad neck.
Body on the broader surfaces with a single pair of wide hexagonal plates.
Length 0.036 mm.
; breadth 0.024 mm.
Frequent.
31.
Cyphoderia ampulla.
Syn.
G. margaritacea.
Rare.
32.
Trinema enchelys.
Numerous and of much variety.
Several of a brown color, as in Arcella.
33.
Placocista spinosa.
Syn.
Euglypha spinosa.
Rare.
34.
Pseudodifflugia gracilis.
Syn.
Pleurophrys sphaerica.
Oval form.
Occasional.
35.
Clathrvlina elegans.
Detached and dead, or in an encysted condition.
Few.
36.
Hyalolampe fenestrata.
Few 37.
Acanthocystis ?
Colorless, and with simple, delicate un forked spines.
Few.
38.
Amphizonella violacea?
A single individual.
39.
Amoeba radiosa.
Rare.
40.
Amoeba ?
Young of A. proteus.
Rare.
With the foregoing there were associated many desmids, diatoms, rotifers, anguillulas, etc.
June 24.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Seventeen members present.
Note on Lonas inodora.
Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited specimens of this Mediterranean plant, an escape from a garden, found growing wild in a swamp in association with Iris versicolor, Onoclea sensibilis, and other moisture-loving plants.
The}' had made a growth of near two feet long, and the heads of flowers in all cases had ray florets, with the ligulate portions an inch in length.
In garden culture the heads were nearty discoid, the ray petals being almost obsolete, and in De Candolle's description the discoid heads are inven as a generic character.
Mr.
Median also referred to the well known relationship between Gomposilse and Umbelliferse, and noted the presence of vittse in the akenes of this plant as a point of agreement between the two orders, uncommon in those of the Composite family.
The Larva of Eurypauropus spinosus.
Mr. J.
A. Ryder announced that, in a vial in which he had kept four living specimens of this animal for two months past, he had found a single specimen of its very minute hexagonal larva about one-hundredth of an inch long.
It had three segments, and a very rudimentary fourth one, and was of a pale reddish or lilac color; exceedingly compressed, more so relatively than the adults, and with the antennae bifurcate as in the latter.
The specimen in life was almost as wide as long.
Remains of the shells of ova w r ere also found in a crevice in the same piece of decayed wood upon which the larva was found, and the adults were seen to get into the same crevice and remain for a da} r at a time, so that it is fair to infer that they are probably the parents of the larva in question.
The finding of this larva places the validity of the species beyond question, and also renders it quite certain that six segments is the normal number in the adult.
The ease with which these animals bear confinement for a protracted period gives promise that still other specimens of larva?
may be looked for in the same vial in the course of the season.
Wm.
P. Foulke was elected a member.
July 1.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty members present.
A paper entitled " On the Genera of Felidoe and Canidae," by Edw.
D. Cope, was presented for publication.
The death of Thomas S. Root, a member, was announced.
July 8.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twentj'-five members present.
Fossil Foot Tracks of the Anthracite Coal Measures.
Prof. Leidy read a letter from Mr. W. Lorenz, Chief Engineer of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Co., referring to the fossil specimen presented this evening by Mr. Wm.
D. H. Mason, of Williamstown, Pa.
The specimen is a mass of coal shale, with foot prints, and was discovered by the donor at the Ellangowan Colliery, in strata between the Primrose and Mammoth veins, in the Mahanoy coal field.
Mr. Lorenz remarks that it is of especial interest, as the first specimen of the kind found in the Anthracite coal field.
The Sauj-opus jyrimeevus of Lea, of which the original specimen is preserved in our museum, was discovered in the umbral red shale, near Pottsville, belonging to the subcarboniferous series.
The specimen before us is an irregular slab, upwards of a foot long and less than half the breadth.
The upper surface is obscurely ripple marked longitudinally, and is crossed in a slant by seven tracks, which are in pairs, except one in advance on the right.
Three only are complete, the others being imperfect.
The four tracks on the right occupy a line of six inches, and are about an inch and a half apart from those on the left.
The tracks appear to be single, that is to say, not produced by fore and hind feet together,and no distinction can be detected between impressions of these.
The more perfect impressions exhibit four widely divergent toes, successively increasing in length from within outwardlj 7 , excepting that the fourth toe is slightly shorter than the third.
A feeble rounded impression of a sole is visible behind the toes.
The expanse of the tracks is about an inch.
The accompanying outline will give an idea of their form, though the sole comparatively with the toes is not so distinctlj r defined.
The intervals of the toes appear not to be webbed, or at most are only feebly so.
The impressions are probably those of an amphibian, and perhaps pertained to some salamandroid animal.
As it is customary to refer to fossil foot tracks, as representing the animals by which they were made, under distinct names, it would be proper to designate the present specimen in the same way.
In accordance with its discovery in the Anthracite coal field, and from the colliery in which the specimen was found, Mr. Lorenz suggests that it should be called the Anthracopus ellanG0WENSIS.
On Sex in Castanea Americana.
Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to the flowers of the common chestnut, Castanea Americana, and pointed out that the flowers were the products of axillary buds, which, in young trees, would have borne branches.
These spikes of male flowers fell off by an articulation in the axils of the leaves soon after the flowers were mature, and it was remarkable that in young trees that had not arrived at bearing condition, the buds also fell by an articulation before developing the axillary branchlet.
Sometimes the leaves would be considerably advanced before the disarticulation occurred.
Chestnut branches several years old would be found full of these scars where the buds had been ; but never would be found a perfect dormant bud, except at the termination of a branch, after the branch was one year old.
There seemed to be whole classes of trees with distinct peculiarities in this respect.
Leguminosse would preserve dormant buds for an indefinite number of years.
In Gymnocladus, the Kentucky coffee tree, the axillary bud of the one year branch could be found twenty years afterwards just beneath the bark, in the position it first occupied, having in all that time grown just enough as the tree grew to keep just beneath the surface.
The same is true of magnolias.
In some, 3 r oung branchlets came from the axillary buds the spring following their formation, and continued an existence as weak branchlets for a few years until starved out by the stronger ones, but when they reached a flowering condition the whole axillary bud died out with the effort of producing flowers.
This was well illustrated by some maples.
There was a third class which produced flowers and also an axillary bud, and these continued alwa3's through life twiggy branching trees, depending also on ultimate starvation of the branchlets to keep the supply of main branches within hounds.
Birches are good examples of this class.
The chestnut seems to be the only tree which takes the matter in hand in time, and keeps down a superabundance of branchlets by a disarticulation of the buds themselves, though in arbor vitres, deciduous cypress, and some others, there is a disarticulation of superabundant branches after they are a year or so old, in this way keeping finally but a few main branches to preserve the form and permit of the functions of the head of the tree.
In the growing branch of the flowering chestnut tree the first four or five axillary buds, instead of a branch or futile buds for next spring, produce at once spikes of male flowers.
Often the two upper axillary buds remain till next spring, to run the chance of being thrown off as a bud, or perchance to make a weak branchlet.
After these buds have been formed, a subsidiary second growth is formed, and from this renewed growth another crop of male flowers, at the base of which, if at all, two or three clusters of female flowers appear.
The first crop of wholly male flowers disappears without apparently being of any service whatever in reproduction.
It is an enormous waste of energy if the fertilization of flowers be the sole end of production.
In each spike there were about fifty clusters, and at least five flowers in each cluster, and there were about five of these precocious spikes to each branch that might in the end bear two or three female flowers, or, in round numbers, over one thousand male flowers to one female, and when we remember that half the branches produce only the precocious male flowers, there would be two thousand males to one female, even under the best circumstances; but, as already noted, the whole mass of flowers which give so much charm to a chestnut tree fall off without any influence whatever on the fruit production of any trees in the vicinity, as the female flowers are not in bloom till these showy early ones have fallen, and depend on the second crop of male flowers for fertilization.
For what purpose is this immense mass of bloom with its resultant pollen created ?
Mr.
Median believed that modern teleology based on the selfish idea that acts of each individual are solely for its own good, or the good of its immediate descendants, was wrong.
The animal world, in the shape of insects perhaps, or in any other way, could be no more said to be created for the vegetable, as fertilizers of flowers, than were plants for them.
It is a popular saying, that mouths were not created before something was prepared to put into them ; and scientifically this might be reduced to the proposition, that plants may be made to behave and to produce, for ends having no relation whatever to their own individual wants, but that all things might be made to work together in harmony for some universal good.
Mr. Red field asked whether it might not be that chestnut woods in more southern latitudes, and with female flowers more advanced, could receive the pollen from the precocious flowers of these northern trees ; and, in view of the accidents liable to such a distant transmission by the winds, nature provided this immense superabundance to make the cross-fertilization more certain?
Mr. Meehan replied that he could not say ; but if an answer to his questions were to be met by any of the prevailing theories on the necessities or utilities of cross-fertilization, he would like to ask what was the use of odor in the event of Mr. Redfield's question being answered affirmatively ?
The male flowers of the sweet chestnut were remarkably odoriferous.
A fair sized bunch in a room would give fragrance to a whole house.
Where would be the use of adding this powerful odor to flowers in mere arrangements for cross-fertilization by the aid of winds ?
The following paper was ordered to be printed : ON THE GENERA OF FELIDiE AND CANIDJE.
BY E. D. COPE.
FELID.E.
The discovery of extinct species from time to time, renders it necessary to re-examine the definitions of the families and genera into which living forms naturally fall.
We thus learn the characters of their primitive types, and the successive steps through which they passed in attaining their present characteristics.
The Felidae are known as that family of Carnivora in which the feet and teeth are most specialized for the functions of seizing and lacerating living prey.
The number of living species enumerated by Pr.
Gray is sixty-four, which he throws into a number of genera.
The extinct species yet known are less numerous, but they present a greater variety of structure than the former.
Two types or series may be recognized among the genera, namely those represented by the genera Felis and Mach&rodus respectively.
All of the latter are extinct.
The greater number of the genera allied to Macochrodus are distinguished by the great development of the superior canine teeth, whose crowns are generally compressed and trenchant.
The corresponding part of the mandible is expanded downwards so as to furnish a protection to the slender crown from fracture by lateral blows when not in use, but in some of the genera, e. g. Mmravus, this flange is not developed The only definition which can be used to distinguish these sections of the family, is found in the angular separation of the anterior and lateral planes of the ramus of the mandible, and this character cannot be expected to remain unaffected by future discovery.
Forms will doubtless be found in which the angle is obsolete, and in which the lateral and anterior faces pass gradually into each other.
Other characters which distinguish the extinct o-enera are found in the numbers of molar teeth, and, what has been heretofore neglected, the number of lobes of the molars themselves.
As regards the existing genera, Dr. Gray 1 has brought out their 1 Catalogue of Carnivorous, Pachydermatous, and Edentate Mammalia in the British Museam.
By John Edward Gray, F.R.S., V.P.Z.S., F.L.S., etc.
London, 1869. characters more fully than any other author.
He points out the fact that in some of the species the orbits are closed behind, and in others open.
He first examined into the manner of the contraction and closing of the pupil in the presence of light, and pointed out the fact that in the large cats it is always round and approximates a point in closing, while in the smaller forms the pupil closes as a vertical slit.
He shows that the cats of the former group have the smaller orbits of the cranium, and the latter the larger.
Dr. Gray, however, uses other characteristics in the discrimination of the genera, which are, in my estimation, quite inadmissible; as the relative length of the muzzle and of the premaxillary bones; also of the hair on different parts of the body and tail.
Such features of proportion are essential as characters of species, but not of genera.
In accordance with these views, I have united several of Dr. Gray's divisions into groups, which I call genera, and which repose on some definite structural characters.
Thus I combine his Uncia, Tigris, Leo and Leopardus into a genus for which I employ his name Uncia, as the least objectionable, 1 after having confirmed by autopsy the circular character of the pupil.
This I was enabled to do through the courtesy of my friend Arthur E. Brown, Superintendent of the Philadelphia Zoological Garden, who aided me in examining the eyes of these animals both by sunlight and the light of a bull'seye lantern.The detailed characters of the genera will now be given : I.
The anterior and lateral faces of the mandible separated by an angle.
a. inferior sectorial with a heel ; no anterior lobe of superior sectorial ; no posterior lobes of the premolars.
* An inferior tubercular molar.
Premolars .
Dinictis.
Premolars f. Nimraous.
1 I assume that this name is derived from uncus, a hook, whicli is appropriate to the weapons of these animals.
2 I add the following notes on some other Garnivora, which do not come within the scope of this paper : Mymna crocuta.
Pupils a vertical slit.
Viverridce.
Three species of Ichneumon and viverricula, a horizontal oval.
Nasua.
A horizontal oval.
12 ** No inferior tubercular molar.
Premolars ; incisors .
Hoplophoneus.
Premolars T ; incisors ^.
Eusmilus.
oa.
Inferior sectorial without heel ; an anterior lobe of the superior sectorial, and posterior lobes of the premolars.
Premolars f, first inferior two rooted.
Machserodus.
Premolars ^n', first inferior one rooted.
Smilodon.
II.
The anterior and lateral faces of the mandible continuous, convex.
(No inferior tubercular molar.)
a.
Inferior sectorial tooth with a heel.
Premolars f , no posterior lobes ; second superior with internal heel (plantigrade).
Cryptoprocta.
Premolars with posterior lobes; no heel of second superior.
Pseudselurus.
oa.
Inferior sectorial without heel ; premolars with posterior lobes; superior sectorial with anterior lobe.
]3.
Superior sectorial with internal heel.
y. Pupil round.
Premolars f. Uncia.
Premolars .
Neofelis.
yy.
Pupil vertical.
Orbit closed behind ; premolars f .
Catolynx.
Orbit open ; premolars .
Felis.
Orbit open ; premolars \.
Lyncus.
/3j3.
Superior sectorial without internal heel.
Pupil round, premolars ; orbit open posterioi'ly.
Cynselurus.
The following catalogue includes the species of the Felidse, the names of the recent ones being derived from Gray's Catalogue, and printed in Roman letters.
These are probably too numerous in the genera Felis and Lyncus, but I do not possess the means of properly disposing of them.
Dinictis, Leidy.
Aelurogale, Filhol.
?Daptophilus, Cope.
D. intermedia, Filhol.
Phosphorites, France.
D. squalidens, Cope.
White River, Colorado.
D.felina, Leidy.
White River, Nebraska.
D. cyclops, Cope.
White River, Oregon.
Nimravus, Cope.
N. brachyops, Cope.
White River, Oregon.
Hoplophoneus, Cope.
H. primasvus, Leidy.
White Eiver, Nebraska.
H. occidentalism Leidy.
White River, Nebraska.
Eusmilus, Gervais.
E. bidentatus, Filhol.
Phosphorites, France.
Maelieerodus, Kaup.
Agnotherium, Kaup.
Drepanodon, Nesti.
M. palmidens, Blv.
Falunian Sansan.
31. ogygius, Kaup.
Oeningian, Epplesheim.
31. antiquus, Nesti.
Pliocene, Italy, France.
M. falconer i, Pomel.
Upper Miocene, India.
31. cultridens, Cuv.
Pliocene, Europe.
31. latidens, Ourn.
Pliocene, England.
31. aphanista, Kaup.
Oeningian, Epplesheim.
31. maritimus, Gerv.
Pliocene, Montpellier.
Smilodon, Lund.
S. neogseus, Lund.
Pliocene, Brazil.
S. necator, Gervais, Buenos Ayres.
Cryptoprocta, Bennett.
C. ferox, Bennett.
Madagascar.
Pseudaelurus, Gervais.
P. hyaenoides, Lartet.
Falunian Sansan.
P. intrepidus, Leidy.
Loup River, Nebraska.
P. edwardsi, Filhol.
Phosphorites, France.
P. ?
intermedins, Filhol.
Phosphorites, France.
P. sivalensis, Lydekker.
Catolyns, Gray.
Viverriceps, Gray.
C. marmoratus, Martin.
India, Borneo.
C. charltoni, Gray.
Nepal, Darjeeling (Charlton).
C. viverrina, Bennett.
East Indies.
C. planiceps, Yig.
and Horsf.
Malacca, Sumatra, Borneo.
C. ellioti, Gray.
Madras.
C. rubiginosa, I. Geoff.
India, Madras.
Felis, Linn.
Pardalina, Felis, and Chans, Gray.
F. pardalis, L. America, tropical or subtropical.
F. grisea, Gra}'-.
Gautemala.
F. melanura, Ball.
America.
F. picta, Gray.
Central America.
F. pardoides, Gray.
Tropical America.
F. macroura, Pr.
Max.
de Wied.
Brazil.
F. mitis, F. Cuv.
Mexico.
?
Paraguay.
?
F. tiffrina, Schreb.
South America.
F. geoffroyi, D'Orb.
South America.
F. colocolla, Molina, South America, Chili (Molina), Surinam (H. Smith).
F. jaguarondi, Lacep.
South America.
F. eyra, Desm.
Tropical America.
F. serval, Schreb.
South and West Africa.
F. rutila, Waterhouse, Sierra Leone.
F. neglecta, Gray.
Gambia.
F. servalina, Ogilbj'.
Sierra Leone.
F. celidogaster, Temra.
Guinea.
F. senegalensis, Lesson.
Senegal.
F rninuta (pars.
), Temm.
Sumatra.
F. javanensis, Horsf.
Java.
F. nepalensis, Vig.
and Horsf.
India (perhaps a hybrid or domesticated).
F. chinensis, Gray.
China.
F. pardinoides, Gray.
India (Capt.
Junes.)
F. pardochroa, Hodgson.
Nepal (Hodgson).
Tenasserira (Packman).
F. tenasserimensis, Gray.
India, Tenasserim (Packman).
F. jerdoni, Blyth.
Indian Peninsula, Madras.
F. herscheli, Gray.
India, " Zanzibar."
?
F. wagati, Elliot.
India.
F. caligata, Temm.
Africa, North, South, Central, and East.
F. inconspicua, Gray.
India (domesticated or perhaps a variety).
F. domestica, Brisson.
Syria.
?
Domesticated in most countries.
F. manul, Pallas.
Thibet.
F. catus, L. Europe.
F. megalotis, Muller.
Timar.
F. himalayanus, Gray.
Himalaya (Cross, Warwick).
F. jacquemonti, J. Geoffr.
Africa and Asia.
F. ornata, Gray.
India (Capt.
Boys).
F. catolynx, Pallas.
Nepal (Hodgson).
Lyncus, Raf.
Pajeros, Lynx et Caracal, Gray.
L. pajeros, Desm.
South America.
The Pampas.
L. borealis, Gray.
Northern Europe, Sweden.
L. canadensis, Geoffr.
North America.
L. pardinus, Temm.
Southern Europe, Turkey.
L. isabellinus, Blyth.
Thibet.
L. rufus, Giildenst.
North America.
L. maculatus, Vig.
and Horsf.
North America, Mexico, and California.
L. caracal, Schreb.
Southern Asia and Africa, Persia and Arabia.
Neofelis, Gray.
N. macrocelis, Temm.
Himalaya (Hodgson), Malacca.
N. brachyurus (Temm), Siam.
Svvinhoe, Formosa (Swinhoe).
TJncia, Gray, Cope emend.
Leo, Tigris et Leopardus, Gray.
U. coneolor, L. North and South America.
U. auratus, Temm.
Himalaya, Sumatra, Borneo.
TJ.
onca, L. South America, Mexico, Texas.
U. chinensis, Gray.
Pekin, mountain forests of the west.
TJ.
japonensis, Gray.
Japan.
TJ.
pardus, L. Southern Asia, North, South, and West Africa.
TJ.
tigris, L. Asia.
TJ.
leo, L. Africa, India.
TJ.
irbis.
Thibet.
Cynaelurus, Wagler.
Gueparda, Gray.
C. jubatus, L. Africa, Asia, Persia, Cape of Good Hope.
?
C.ferox, Leidy (Aelurodon).
Loup River, Nebraska.
The successive order of the modifications of structure Which define the above genera is not difficult to perceive, and it is interesting to discover that, as in other cases, it coincides with the succession in geologic time.
The typical genera Uncia, Felis, etc., are characterized by great specialization, and it is they which now exist.
The oldest found Dimctis, Nimravus, etc., are the least specialized in most respects, and they disappeared before the close of Miocene time.
Since one of the special characters of the Felidse is the reduction in the number of the molar teeth by subtraction from both ends of the series, an increased number of these constitutes resemblance to other families.
The genus Diniclis, above defined, has been shown by Leidy to possess two more inferior molars than Felis, or three more than Neofelis and Lynx, as in the Mustelidse.
The extinct Pseudselurus and the living Cryptoprocta have but one less molar than Dinictis, lacking the posterior tubercular.
Nimravus has the same number of molars as Pseudselurus, but lacks the first premolar instead of the last true molar.
In Hoplophoneus we first find the number of molars as in the existing genera, viz., Pra.
m. j.
Other characters of this genus are, however, of a generalized kind.
I here recall the statement that the genera of Felidse fall into two series, which are distinguished by the forms of the anterior part of the mandibular rami, and generally by the large size of the canine teeth to which the former are adapted.
This distinction appeared early in Miocene, or Oligocene time, in fact in the oldest of the cats of which we have any knowledge.
The genera with large canines or Maehserodontine line were then represented by Dinictis, and the Feline line by Pseudselurus.
It is interesting to observe that these genera differed from their latest prototypes in the same way, viz.
: (1) in the presence of more numerous inferior molars ; (2) in the presence of a heel of the inferior sectorial ; (3) in the absence of an anterior cusp of the superior sectorial.
In the case of Dinictis one other character of primitive carnivora may be noticed, viz.
: the absence of the cutting lobes on the posterior edges of the superior and inferior premolars, so distinct in the existing cats.
The same feature characterizes the superior premolars of Pseudselurus, but the inferior premolars have the lobes.
In the existing Cryptoprocta, which Gervais has shown to be nearly allied in dentition, to Pseudselurus, the lobes are wanting from both jaws, but this genus adds to this primitive character another of modern significance, viz., the presence of the anterior cusp of the superior sectorial.
Moreover Cryptoprocta has another peculiarity which recalls the genera of the Eocene Creodonta, in the well-developed interior tubercle of the third premolar, a character unknown in Miocene or existing Carnivora.
That genus is evidently, like the Lemuridse, also of Madagascar, a remnant of the Eocene Fauna, which once covered most of the earth, and may be regarded as, on the whole, the most primitive of the Felidse, recent and extinct.
Following the two lines of Felidse already indicated, we attain the same conclusion in both, by the same stages.
The primitive form of the Machaerodont line represented by Eoplophoneus has its extreme in Eusmilus, where the second inferior premolar and an incisor tooth are wanting, giving a formula of I.
2, C. I ; Pm.
1 ; M. 1.
In Machserodus we have the modern characters of the molars seen in Felis, viz., no heel of the inferior sectorial ; the superior sectorial with an anterior lobe, and posterior lobes of the premolars.
The extreme of this line is reached in Smilodon, where the second inferior premolar is one rooted or wanting.
This genus then standsrelated to Machserodus, as Eusmilus to Eopl()})honeus.
In the Feline line proper, on reaching the existing genera, we have lost the heel of the inferior sectoiial and gained the posterior lobes of the premolars and anterior lobe of the superior sectorial at once.
A further modification of the dentition of the superior series of the recent forms, is seen in the loss of the first superior premolar in Lynx and Neofelis.
Still another, which is one step beyond what is known in the Machaerodont line, is the loss of the interior tubercle of the superior sectorial, which characterizes the genus Gynselurus.
A superior sectorial tooth having the character of that of this genus was discovered by Dr. Hayden in the Loup River formation of Nebraska, and was referred to a species by Dr. Leidy under the name of Aelurodon ferox.
It was much larger than the G.jubatus.
As already remarked, the genera of the Machaerodont line are extinct, and this in spite of the fact that they presented the most perfect weapons of destruction in their canine teeth, from the earliest times.
Their other modifications of structure advanced pari passu with those of the Feline series, and, among others, the feet presented in the latter forms at least (e. g., Smilodon necator, Gew.
),the most perfect prehensile power of the lions and tigers of to-day.
As nothing but the characters of the canine teeth distinguished these from the typical felines, it is to these that we must look for the cause of their failure to continue.
Prof.
Flower's suggestion appears to be a good one, viz.
: that the length of these teeth became an inconvenience and a hindrance to their possessors.
I think there can be no doubt that the huge canines in the Smilodons must have prevented the biting off of flesh from large pieces, so as to greatly interfere with feeding, and to keep the animals in poor condition.
The size of the canines is such as to prevent their use as cutting instruments, excepting with the mouth closed, for the latter could not have been opened sufficiently to allow any object to enter it from the front.
Even were it opened so far as to allow the mandible to pass behind the apices of the canines, there would appear to be some risk of the latter's becoming caught on the point of one or the other canine, and forced to remain open, causing early starvation.
Such may have been the fate of the fine individual of the S. neogaeus, Lund, whose skull was found in Brazil by Lund, and which is familiar to us through the figures of Dr. Blainville, etc.
Description of New Species.
Dinictis cyclops.
The species of Dinictis differ in the proportions of their anterior molar and canine teeth as follows: First inferior molar one rooted ; first superior molar two rooted ; superior canine short, robust ; large.
D. intermedia.
1 First inferior molar one rooted ; superior canine compressed ; two inferior incisors.
D. squalidens.
First inferior molar two rooted ; first superior molar one rooted; canine long, compressed.
D. cyclops.
First molar of both jaws two rooted ; canine long, compressed.
D.felina.
In the D. cyclops the first superior molar is rudimental, and will probably be found to be wanting in some specimens.
The second premolar has a distinct anterior tubercle on the inner side, a character not seen in D.felina ; the anterior angle of the superior sectorial is more produced than in that species.
The crown of the superior tubercular looks partly inwards, is rather long, and has three roots.
The superior canine is quite long, and has a regularly lenticular section, without facets.
Its anterior and posterior edges are denticulate.
The external incisors are much larger than the internal, and have subconic crowns.
The crowns of the others are subcuneiform.
The inferior canines are considerably larger than the incisors.
The latter are regular, and do not overlap each other.
The second and third inferior premolars have well-developed basal lobes anteriorly and posteriorly.
The 1 Aelurogale intermedia, Filhol.
1879.]
177 heel of the sectorial is well developed.
The tubercular is very small.
The form of the skull is short and wide ; the zygomata are much expanded, and the profile is very convex.
The muzzle is short, and the orbits are rather larsfe.
The interorbital region is wide and convex, and the postorbital processes are robust, acuminate, and directed downwards.
The infra-orbital foramen is very large.
The apices of the premaxillary bones are elongate, but do not reach the frontals.
The nasals are rounded posteriorly.
The sagittal crest is prominent, and the inion elevated.
The posttympanic process is short, and the paroccipital is short and is directed backwards.
The cranium is constricted behind the orbits.
The mandibular ramus is low posteriorly, and the anterior inferior flange is well-developed, but not large.
Measurements.
M. Length of skull on base 140 Width of skull, measured below .
.
.
.
.111 Length of palate 060 Width of palate between posterior angles of sectorials 062 Width of palate between canines .... .020 Length of skull to front of orbits (axial) .
.
.050 Vertical diameter of orbit ..... .031 Intei-orbital width (least) 045 Elevation of inion from foramen 032 Length of inferior molar series 050 Length of inferior sectorial 018 Length of base of inferior first premolar .
.
.055 Depth of ramus at sectorial 016 Depth of ramus at first premolar .... .021 Depth of ramus at flange 026 From the Truckee beds of John Day River, Or* egon.
CANID.E.
The range of variation presented by the species of Canidse includes several generic divisions, recent and extinct.
These genera are, however, as closely intergraded as are those of the cats, and their definite characters are subject to occasional failure from abnormal variations.
These are, however, not so frequent as to invalidate the classification to which they form the exceptions.
The Canidee appeared in the Upper Eocene period, and the genus Ganis was well represented by species in the lowest Miocene in Europe and the United States, The other genera are represented by fewer species, and many of them are extinct.
The foxes ( Vulpes) are the most numerous of them, and but few extinct species of them are known.
America presents us with the greatest variety of genera, as Enhydrocyon, Temnocyon, and Palseocyon extinct, and Icticyon, extinct aud recent.
Speothus, extinct in America, still exists in Asia.
The most complete catalogue of the species Canidse is that of Dr. Gra} r .
In his work the author brings together observations of various naturalists, and adds a number of his own.
He admits a large number of generic divisions, but many of these, like those of his Felidse, are simply founded on specific characters.
A few good genera, however, exist, and a synopsis of their characters is given below.
The genus Megalotis is here excluded from the Canidse on account of the unspecialized character of the superior sectorial tooth, as is done by Dr. Gray : I.
True molars .
Premolars f ; inferior sectorial with internal tubercle.
Amphicyon.
II.
True molars f. Premolars | ; inferior sectorial with internal tubercle.
Thous.
III.
True molars .
a. Premolars f .
/3.
Inferior sectorial without internal tubercle.
Heel of sectorial cutting.
Palseocyon.
/3j3.
Inferior sectorial with internal tubercle, y.
Four toes in the manus ; A sagittal crest.
Lycaon.
77.
Five toes in the manus.
8.
Heel of sectorial simply cutting.
A median sagittal crest (?toes).
Temnocyon.
58.
Heel of sectorial concave, with raised borders.
Pupil round; temporal fossa with simple superior border.
Canis.
Pupil erect ; temporal fossa with simple superior border.
Vulpes.
Pupil erect ; temporal fossa bounded above by a rib-like crest.
Urocyon.
aa.
Premolars .
Inferior sectorial with internal tubercle and cutting heel.
Enhydrocyon.
Inferior sectorial with internal tubercle, and wide tubercular heel.
Tomarctus.
IY.
True molars .
a. Premolars %.
Inferior sectorial with internal tubercle.
Speothus.
Inferior sectorial without internal tubercle (superior molar sometimes one).
Synagodus.
aa.
Premolars f .
Inferior sectorial without internal tubercle (incisors caducous).
Dysodus.
Y.
True molars hPremolars |; inferior sectorial with internal tubercle.
Icticyon.
It is discoverable that the series represented b} r the above genera is a part of the greater line of the digitigrade Carnivora, embracing the greater part of it which is less specialized than, or inferior to, the part covered by the Hysenidse and Felidse.
Without entering into the relations of the Canidee with the civets and Jfustelidse, it may be remarked that the genera display a successive reduction in the number of premolars and molars from the more ancient to modern geologic times.
It is interesting to note that the genera presenting the greatest reduction in all respects, Synagodus and Dysodus, are now only known in a domesticated condition.
Another reduction is seen in the number of tubercles of the inferior sectorial.
Amphicyon, Lartet.
This genus is better represented in Em-ope than in North America, but two species being certainly known from the latter.
No recent species.
Thous, Gray, Dusicyon, Smith (nomen nudum).
Existing species of South America only.
Palaeocyon, Lund.
Extinct species of South America onty.
Lycaon, Brooks.
Existing species of Africa, only known as yet.
Temnocyon, Cope, Proceedings Amer.
Philosophical Society, 1878, p. 68.
In this genus the heel of the inferior sectorial tooth rises into a single more or less median crest; in Canis the corresponding front is basin-shaped, with tubercles on each side.
The superior molars of the typical species, T. altigenis, are unknown, but those of a new species, described below, do not differ from those of the genus Cants.
The Cynodictis crassirostris of Filhol, from the French Phosphorites, approaches this genus.
Temnocyon coryphaeus, sp.
nov.
This is the most abundant dog of the Truckee beds of the John Day country.
I have identified it heretofore as my Canis haiishornianus, but I And on examination of the inferior sectorial tooth that it is a species of Temnocyon.
This genus was characterized by me on evidence furnished by a mandible of a species which I named T. altigenis, 1 which is of considerably larger size than the present one, but which agrees with it in the presence of a cutting edge instead of a basin on the heel of the inferior sectorial.
The C. hartshornianus, known as yet from few fragments, is intermediate in dimensions between these two.
Several crania, and more or less of the skeleton of the T. coryphsens, are present in m} r collection.
A nearly perfect skull displays the following characters : The orbits are entirely anterior to the vertical line dividing the skull into halves, and the muzzle is proportionately shortened.
It is also narrowed anteriorly, and its median line above is shallowly grooved.
The interorbital region is greatly convex to the supra-orbital region, and is grooved medially.
The postorbital processes are mere angles, and are flattened from below.
The cranium is much constricted behind the orbits, where its diameter is not greater than the width of the premaxillary incisive border.
The sagittal crest is much elevated, and forms a perfectly straight and gradually rising outline to its junction with the incisor.
The borders of the latter are very prominent, extending backwards considerably beyond 1 Proceedings Amer.
Philosopk.
Soc, 1878, viii.
p. 68. the brain case.
The zygoma is rather slender, is elongate, and but little expanded.
The otic bullae are very large ; the paroccipital processes are directed backwards, at an angle of 45, and are rather elongate and acute ; they cap the bullae posteriorly.
The lateral occipital crests bound a fossa of the occipital region near the condyles.
The occipital surface is directed horizontally backwards ahove the foramen magnum.
This part of it, and its superior portion, are divided by a median keel.
The basioccipital is keeled on the middle line below.
The sphenoid is not keeled, and is concave, its borders descending on the inner side of the bullae.
The ptei\ygoid fossa is rather narrow, and the hamular process is short.
The posterior border of the palate does not extend anterior to the posterior edges of the last tubercular molar, and its middle portion projects backwards in a triangular process.
The palatine fossa for the inferior sectorial is shallow.
The superior surface of the postorbital region is roughened.
The foramen infraorbitale exterius is rather large, and issues above the anterior border of the sectorial tooth.
The f. incixiva are short, not extending posterior to the middle of the canines.
The /.
palatina are opposite the posterior border of the sectorial.
The/, lachrymale is altogether within the orbital border.
The/.
opticum is rather large.
This species is peculiar in having the' /.
/.
spheno-orbitale, rotundum, and alisph enoidale anterius united into one large external orifice.
The alisphenoid canal is larger in Canis latrans, and its posterior foramen small.
The /.
ovale is further removed from the/, alisphenoidale than in the coyote, and is exterior to and a little behind the/, carotideum.
The nasal bones extend to above the middles of the orbits, and contract gradually to their apex.
Their combined anterior border is a regular concave, and the lateral angles at this point are produced outwards and forwards.
The posterior apex of the premaxillary bone is separated from the anterior apex of the frontal by a short space.
The maxillo-malar suture is deeply notched in front below, and it extends upwards to above the infra-orbital foramen.
A very narrow surface of the lachrymal is exposed on the external surface.
The pterygoid bone is distinct, and is nearly equally bounded by the sphenoid and palatine on the outer side.
The inferior suture of the orbito-sphenoid runs in a groove, which is deepest anteriorly.
182 [1879.
The crowns of all the incisor teeth are narrow or compressed, and, though slightly worn, present no indication of notch.
As usual, the external ones are much the largest in antero-posterior diameter.
The canines have robust fangs and rapidly tapering crowns, which are but little compressed.
The first superior premolar is one-rooted, and the crown is simple.
The crown of the second is without posterior heel and tubercle, while the third possesses both.
The sectorial is relatively short, less so than in C. latrans.
The blades are low and obtuse as compared with recent species, and the notch separating them is quite open.
The anterior external heel is small, and there is no anterior external tubercle.
The first tubercular molar is large, and the crown is narrower than that of C. latrans.
It has an obtuse external cingulum.
two external conical cusps, a V-shaped median ridge, and a wide internal cingulum.
This crown differs from the corresponding one of C. latrans in having conical instead of compressed external cusps, and a simple Y-shaped crest within instead of two adjacent cusps.
The second tubercular is smaller than in C. latrans, and its tubercles are less distinct.
There are two outer tubercles, a Y-shaped ridge, and an inner cingulum, all very obscure.
The enamel of all these teeth is smooth.
Measurements of Cranium.
Length along base of skull, including incisive border and occipital condyle Length of skull to palatal notch Length of skull to posterior border of pterj-goid bone Length to front of orbit axially Width between zygomas (greatest) Width between oi'bits (least) .
Width at postorbital constriction .
Width between bases of canines Width between bases of second tuberculars Width between otic bullae Width between apices of paroccipitals .
Width of foramen magnum Width of occiput above .... Six well-preserved crania of this species are e M. .160 .075 .102 .046 .094 .036 .021 .017 .027 .009 .042 .017 .032 nbraced in the collection, and the mandible remains attached to some of them.
One of these exhibits the following characters : there is a welldeveloped marginal lobe of the posterior cutting edge of the third and fourth premolars as well as a low posterior heel, and a rudiment of an anterior one.
The heel of the sectorial is shorter than the remaining part of the tooth, and rises to a cutting edge a little external to the middle line ; there is a small tubercle at its interior base.
The anterior blade-cusp of the sectorial is much lower than the median, which is conical ; the two diverge, diminishing the shear-like character and action of the tooth.
The internal cusp is well developed.
The first tubercular is of moderate size, and is a longitudinal oval in outline.
The crown supports two low tubercles anterior to the middle, of which the external is the larger.
The last molar has a single compressed root, and the ci'own is a longitudinal oval in outline.
Its position is on the ascending base of the coronoid ramus, so that the crown is slightly oblique.
The masseteric fossa is profound and well defined ; its anterior termination is below the middle of the second tubercular tooth.
The horizontal ramus is not robust, but is compressed, and rather deep.
Measurements of Mandible.
m. Length along bases of posterior five molars .
.
.049 Length of base of fourth premolar .
.
.
.011 Elevation of crown 008 Length of base of sectorial 018 Elevation of crown of " 012 Length of base of first tubercular 0075 Width " " " 0050 Length of base of second tubercular .
.
.
.0050 While the characters of this dog do not separate it widely from the genus Cants, many of them are quite different from those presented by the recent species of the genus with which I am acquainted.
Thus the union of the foramina spheno-orbitale and rotunda, the anterior position of the orbits, and the postorbital constriction are not seen in the wolf, domestic dog, coyote, jackal, or the North American and European foxes.
The size of the brain was evidently less than in those species, and the sectorial teeth quite inferior in the efficiency of their blades.
These characters may be considered in connection with the low geological position of the beds in which the species occurs.
From the Truckee beds of the White River formation in Oregon.
Canis, Linn.
The names proposed by Smith, Gray, and others, and which must be regarded as synon3 T ms of Canis, are Lupus, Dieba, Simenia, Chrysocyon, and Lycalopex.
Man}' of the species, referred to by European paleontologists under the name of Cynodictis, Pomel, appear to me to be undistinguishable from Canis.
Through the great kindness of M. Filhol, I possess specimens of the jaws of several of these species.
A mandible with nearly complete dentition of the Cynodon velaunum of Aymard, agrees very nearly with the jaws of some of the smaller species from the American White River beds, which I have referred to Canis.
Helocyon, Aym.
may be distinct, but may not belong to the Ganidce.
The dentition of man}' of the recent species of Canis differs in very slight characters.
The following may be detected in an examination of the superior molars of the three larger species most accessible in the United States.
Last superior tubercular short, wide; inner cingulum and crest nearly confounded.
Inner crest of tub.
m. I. composed of two low tubercles.
C.familiaris.
Vars.
molossus, terrarius, graius.
Last superior tubercular narrower, transverse ; inner cingulum very distinct.
Inner crest of tub.
M. I., a ridge higher anteriorty.
C. lupus.
Inner crest of tub.
M. I. with two sharp cusps.
C. latrans.
It is worthy of note that the wide oval form of the second superior molar of the Canis familiaris, exists equally in the extreme races or species, the gra3diound and bulldog, as I observe by examination of several crania of each.
This has also been shown by De Blainville.
It is also seen in the terrier, and in various other races.
But in some Saint Bernard crania in the Museum of the Acadeni}' of Natural Sciences, this tooth is more elongate ; and in some of the specimens of Canis lupus from Europe its form is quite the same.
So this character, as might have been anticipated, is not of universal application.
Another character is seen in the crania of three specimens, which are supposed to belong to Canis terrarius.
The superior border of the foramen magnum is interrupted by a deep vertical excavation.
This is not seen in the St. Bernard, the bulldog, greyhound, and other races, nor in any of the feral or extinct species of the genus examined.
It appears to be associated with an increased size of the brain, and to bean adaptation to the vermis of the cerebellum.
The expansion of the brain is also indicated by the protuberance of the frontal region, and the wide separation of the temporal fossae by a smooth space on each side of.
the sagittal suture.
This space does not exist in the greyhound, but a narrow one is found in the bulldog.
These characters are important on various grounds, but are here mentioned in reference to the species of Synagodus and Dysodus, where they reappear.
The absence of the second inferior tubercular molar is also not uncommon in the " black and tan" terrier.
I do not see the propriety of retaining the generic name Nyctereutes, Terara.
for the Canis procyoninus of Japan.
The peculiarity it presents in the form of the first superior tubercular molar, the only one 1 on which the genus reposes, I would regard as specific only.
Vulpes.
I would, with Gill, refer to this genus the species mentioned by Gray and others under the generic names Pseudalopex, Fennecus, and Leucocyon.
The form of the post frontal process certainly does not furnish generic characters.
TJrocyon, Baird.
The peculiar cranial ridges, in which this genus resembles one of the extinct genera of Ilustelidse, appears to me to be the character which warrants its separation from Vulpes.
Enhydrocyon, Cope, Bulletin U. S. Geological Survey, Terrs, v, 56, 1879.
Two species from the White River beds of Oregon are known.
Tomarctus, Cope, Ann.
Report U. S. Geol.
Surv.
Terrs.
1873 (74), p. 519.
Paleontologieal Bulletin, 1873, Aug. 20, 1873.
One species known from the Loup Fork beds of Colorado.
It is uncertain whether this genus has two orthree premolars.
Should it have three it must be compared with the Brachycyon of Filhol.
But the inferior sectorial tooth of that genus is as yet unknown.
Speothus, Lund, 1843.
Cuon, Hodgs.
One extinct species of this genus was found by Lund in caves in Brazil.
Another species, Speothus primeevus, is now living in 1 According to the figures of Temminck and Schlegel.
13 the Himalaya region.
Several other recent species have been named, but they are said by some authors to be varieties only of the S.
primeevus.'
Synagodus, Cope, gen. nov.
The characters of this genus have been pointed out in the analytical key.
They are evident^ as important as those which define the divisions which are regarded as genera by naturalists.
It is not unlikely that the typical species has been heretofore estimated as a variety of Canis familiaris, but it exhibits two trenchant generic dental charaeters not found in Canis, and three unique specific characters in the teeth, besides two characters of the cranium found in but one or two of the subspecies of Canis familiaris.
The generic characters alluded to are: (1) the absence of the second inferior tubercular molar, and (2) the absence of the internal tubercle of the inferior sectorial.
The absence of the second inferior tubercular is evidently not one of those abnormal cases which occur in various species of Cam's from time to time; for the first tubercular molar is smaller than in any known species of Canis, and has but one root, a character which some persons might regard as being the third of the generic category.
The premolars are 4 4, and of the usual form; the first in both jaws is one-rooted.
It is uncertain whether any species of this genus exists in the wild state.
Should such not be the case, we can only predicate the former existence of such an one entirely different from the Canis familiaris, and which has given origin to the existing one below described.
Synagodus mansuetus, sp.
nor.
Two crania represent this species in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences.
They agree in all essential particulars.
The incisor and premolar teeth present no peculiarities (the latter are without marginal lobes), and the superior sectorial is normal.
The first tubercular has less transverse extent than in the Canidse generally, and its median crest and inner cingulum are confounded, a character which I have not found in any of the other species accessible.
Thus the crown of this tooth consists of an external pair of tubercles, a basin, and a stout inner marginal prominence.
The second tuberculars are abnormally small in one specimen, and in the other they are wanting.
The III.
and IV.
inferior premolars have marginal posterior lobes.
The inferior sectorial, as already stated, has no inner tubercle.
Its heel is peculiar in the great elevation, and submedian position of one of its borders, approaching Temnocyon in this respect.
The other edge is, however, distinct, thus forming an unsymmetrical basin.
The first inferior tubercular is small, one-rooted, and the crown is subround, and with a single median tubercle.
In the other usual species of Canis, Vulpes, and of many other genera of the family, this tooth is elongate, two-rooted, and supports at least two tubercles.
The general form of the crania resembles those of some of the terriers.
The brain-case is full and convex, the orbits are lateral, and the muzzle is moderately elongate and narrowed.
The osseous surfaces are generally smooth, and there is no indication of the ridge bounding the temporal fossa above.
There is a deep sinus of the superior border of the foramen magnum, a character above noted as occurring in a subspecies included under Canis familiaris.
I have been unable to ascertain whether the species now described is one of the forms which have been referred to Canis familiaris under a subspecific name.
One of the specimens was presented to the Academy many years ago by Dr. Paul Goddard, under the name of lap-dog.
The form of the head shows that it is not one of the forms of Canis extrarius hispanicus (of Fitzinger's Work on Dogs), which are represented by the King Charles Spaniel, and other lap-dogs.
As I can find nothing concerning it in the books I give it a provisional specific name.
The origin of the characters of this genus is doubtless to be traced to prehistoric time, if not to an early tertiary geologic age.
Perhaps some of the species' characters are of later origin ; such as the obliteration of the superior border ridges of the temporal fossae, and the large sinus of the foramen magnum.
These characters, seen in a lesser degree in a domesticated true Canis, as above mentioned, are evidently an adaptation to an enlarged brain ; the one to the increased cerebral hemispheres, the other to the protuberant vermis of the cerebellum.
Whether these characters are due to a prolonged domestication, and abnormal nutrition within human habitations, remains to be ascertained. '
I remark here that two crania of dogs found mummied in Egypt by Mr. Gliddon, and now in the Museum of the Academy, present all the normal details of structure of Cants familiaris.
The reduction in the number of teeth has been carried further, and is probably of more modern origin in the new genus to be described below.
Dysodus, gen. nov.
The characters of this genus, already indicated in the analytical table, are as follows: I. f ; C. \\ P. m. ; M. f ; inferior sectorial without internal tubercle.
The incisive formula might with propriety read , since these teeth are shed at an early age ; and for the same reason the tuberculars might be stated {, since the last one of the upper jaw is equally evanescent.
I, however, give the genus the benefit of the possible future discovery of species in which the teeth in question may not be so early caducous, and rely on the restricted diagnosis.
It is thus apparent that the genus Dysodus is distinguished from Synagodus by the absence of two premolars from each jaw.
While the genera agree in other respects, their typical species are very different.
This genus probably diverged from that now represented by Synagodus, at a comparatively late period.
Although it exhibits a degree of dental reduction greater than that form, I admit that the possibility of its having come off from Canis rather than from Synagodus is worth} 7 of consideration.
This is suggested by the fact that the remaining (first) tubercular molar of the inferior series is, in D. pravus, more like that of the species of Canis in all respects, among others, in having two roots.
In D. pravus the superior third premolar is sometimes shed, like the incisors, having the formula, I. ; C. } ; Pm.
J; M. h. I have excluded this character from the generic diagnosis, as in the case of the incisor and superior tubercular teeth, because they are at the present time unstable; that is, the parts in question are in process of metamorphosis.
When characters are thus variable, they cannot be used as the bases of natural divisions, but when they are stable, we are compelled to recognize them.
The characters which I have included in the diagnoses of Synagodus and Dysodus I have thought to be of this character, and I am by no means sure that the absence of the superior incisor teeth should not be placed in the same cateo;orv.
But none of these characters, whether stable or unstable, can be regarded as monstrosities, such as multiplied digits, fissured palate, etc.
They are, on the contraiy, in the direct line of numerical succession of parts already represented by the genera of Ganidse, and of all digitigrade Carnivora.
This, as already stated, consists in the reduction in the number of the teeth and their tubercles, forming a series which, commencing with the generalized extinct type Amphicyon, approaches more and more nearly to the Felidse.
In the inferior sectorial, the genus Bysodus approaches nearest of all Ganidse to some of the earliest genera of cats, as Nojylophoneus (although easily distinguishable), while in the reduction of its premolars it approaches the modern forms of that family.
In the early shedding of the incisors it reaches a condition not found in any carnivora, but one which marks the extreme of development of the ungulate mammals in various lines; e. g., Buminantia, Omnivora, and Amblypoda.
Dysodus pravus, sp.
nov.
This species, which is known as the Japanese sleeve dog, is represented in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences by a complete skeleton, with the crania of two other individuals.
These all belong to adult animals of a single litter, which were born in the United States.
The parents of these clogs were procured in Japan by Dr. W. S. TV.
Ruschenberger, U. S. N., now President of the Academy.
Other specimens have been brought to the United States by officers of the navy.
Dr. J. E. Gray figures a skull of the same dog in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London for 1867.
The crania in the Academy's collection are almost exactly alike, and resemble the one figured by Dr. Gray so far as can be discovered.
But Dr. Gray's specimen was probably young, as the incisor teeth and a premolar in each jaw have not yet been shed, and there are some cranial fontanelles still remaining.
The characters displayed by the skulls are as follows: The muzzle is excessively abbreviated, and the forehead very convex.
The brain-case is almost globular, and the zygomata proportionably prominent.
The superior marginal ridge of the temporal fossa is prominent, and those of opposite sides are well separated as far as the posterior parietal region.
Here the}' approach each other abruptly, forming a wide sagittal crest.
The muscular insertions and other osseous ridges of the supra, exand basi-occipital regions are strongly marked.
The postorbital process is prominent and decurved.
The vertical sinus of the superior border of the foramen magnum is deeply excavated.
The external surface of the brain case and of the zygomata is minutety rugose.
There are no lobes of the posterior border of the anterior superior premolars, while they are present on the two inferior premolars.
The superior sectoi'ial is normal, while the first superior tubercular is like that of Synagodus mansuetus, without distinct median crest or tubercle.
The heel of the inferior sectorial is also like that of the species just mentioned; one border is much more elevated than the other, and forms a cutting edge.
The inferior tubercular is small, is longitudinally oval, and supports two low tubercles.
This is one of the most important points of difference between this species and the S. mansuetus.
In none of the specimens is there any trace of the second tubercular.
The skeleton is that of a dog of the size of a rather small blackand-tan terrier.
Dr. Ruschenberger states that the incisor teeth of the dogs were shed at an age of about six months.
He also informs me that they did not breed after coming to this country.
Dr. Gray states that these dogs are fed largely on vegetable food in Japan, and have an artificial existence in various respects.
They are, according to Dr. Ruschenberger, uncommon and expensive in Japan.
I have been unable to discover that any name whether varietal or specific has been given to this dog.
Icticyon, Lund.
One existing and one extinct species have been found in Brazil; the latter in the caves.
I describe a species from Oregon which I cannot separate from them generically.
Icticyon crassivultus, sp.
nov.
This dog is so far represented by a skull, which, while it lacks the parietal and occipital regions, is otherwise nearly complete, having both mandibular rami.
The dental formula is, I. ; C. \; Pm.
| ; M. ^.
The single superior tubercular molar is similar in general to that of other Ganidce.
The inferior sectorial has an internal cusp, and posterior heel, the latter with a low cutting edge on one side.
Inferior tubercular well developed.
The dental formula of this animal is that of Icticyon, Lund, of which a species has been found in the cave deposit of Brazil, and another still lives in that region.
Char, specif.
The snout is short and robust, and the profile from the parietal region is straight and descending.
The premaxillary border projects but little beyond the line of the extremity of the nasal bones.
The muzzle is slightly contracted in front of the orbit and above the fundus of the canine alveoli.
The latter cause a swelling on the side.
The infraorbital region is somewhat cracked, but appears to have been nearly flat medially; laterally it descends steeply to the supraorbital border.
The orbit is not large, and the zygomatic fossa is short.
The nasal bones are narrowed posteriorly, a little contracted medially, and expanded anteriorly, their lateral portions being produced along the pre-maxillaries.
Their combined nasal border is concave, and is without the notches of some forms.
The foramen infraorbitale exterius is of medium size, and issues above the interval between the sectorial tooth and the one in advance of it.
The mandibular ramus is quite robust, and its inferior border is gently convex.
The masseteric fossa is bounded by elevated borders, especially inferiorly, and the angular hook is prominent and robust.
The condyle is situated on the horizontal line of the tubercular molar, or a little above the others, and has a wide transverse extent, chiefly inwards.
The coronoid process is high and wide, and is turned backwards so as to vertically overhang the condyle.
Its anterior border is wide below, and becomes horizontal above.
The teeth partake of the robust character of the skull, with the exception of the incisors.
Of these the crowns of the external are long and narrow, and the median small in the premaxillaries, while those of the lower jaw are all small.
The canines in both jaws are quite robust, and those of the lower jaw are rather abruptly recurved.
The first premolar is small, and has a simple crown and single root.
The crowns of the other premolars are wide at the base, and form each a simple cone, with a short posterior basal heel.
The upper sectorial is relatively not long, but is robust, and with thick blades.
The internal heel is well developed, as in Canis, while a cingulum represents an anterior lobe.
The tubercular molar is narrower in fore and aft diameter than in Temnocxjon coryphaeus or Canis latrans, although it presents the same details.
These are a wide obtuse external cingulum ; two external tubercles; a median obtuse tubercle, and a wide internal cingulum.
The premolars of the lower jaw are similar to those of the maxillary bone.
The inferior sectorial is quite robust, and 192 [1879. the internal cusp.is well developed.
The heel is shorter than the blades of the crown, and is wide and without tubercles in its somewhat worn condition.
Its external border rises to an edge.
The tubercular is wider than the corresponding tooth in the cotemporary species of Canidse, although not so wide as long.
Its crown rises in two low tubercles which stand transversely near the middle.
Measurements.
Length of skull to orbit (axial) Depth of skull to orbit (axial) Interobital width .... Width of nares Length of superior molar series Length of bases of three premolars Length of base of sectorial Width of sectorial in front Width of first tubercular anteroposterior Width of first tubercular transverse Length of mandible to angle .
Elevation at coronoid Elevation at sectorial Length of inferior molar series Length of inferior sectorial Length of heel of inferior sectorial Length of inferior tubercular .
Width of inferior tubercular .
M. .049 .042 .040 .017 .038 .019 .013 .009 .006 .014 .093 .051 .020 .045 .014 .003 .006 .005 Tan der Heaven has given 1 descriptions and figures of the skull and dentition of the Icticyon venaticus of Lund, of Brazil.
From these it appears that the present species differs from the latter in the greater development of the inner part of the tubercular molar of the superior series; in I. venaticus this part is much reduced.
The tubercular molar of the lower jaw is also much smaller in the living species, the angular and coronoid processes less developed, and the condyle less extended transversely.
The cranium of the I. crassivultus is much more robust, but not much longer than that of I. venaticus.
Discovered by J. L. Wortman in the Truckee beds of the White River, Tertiary of the John Day River region of Oregon.
1 Over het Geslacht Icticyon ; wis. en natuurk.
Verb, der Koninkl.
Akademie, Amsterdam, Deel.
III.
General Observations.
In both Canidse and Felidse the reduction of the dental series is connected with a contraction of the facial part of the skull, either posteriorly or anteriorly.
Enhydrocyon is an example of anterior abbreviation, and Icticyon of posterior contraction among Canidse, while Smilodon and Lynx exhibit the anterior reduction in Felidse.
I have already pointed out that this reduction is accompanied by a corresponding increase in the size of the sectorial teeth.
But the reduction in the number of teeth in geologic time has not been confined to the Carnivora, but belongs to the Ungulates and Primates as well.
The small number of teeth is generally associated with high specialization among Mammalia generally.
The genera Synagodus and Dysodus are the most specialized of the Canidse.
I may here refer to the frequently observed reduced dentition of man.
Darwin first pointed out the significance of the absence of the third molars from the standpoint of evolution, citing American cases ; and I have observed the similar bearing of the absence of the external superior incisors.
1 These reductions are very frequent in the United States, and probably elsewhere among civilized nations, but statistics on this point are yet wanting.
My friend Dr. C. N. Pierce, an experienced and scientific dentist of this city, informs me that he knows of twent} f -eight families in which the external superior incisors are absent; to these, four families may be added, which have fallen under my own observation : that the absence of one or both pairs of the third molars is still more common, is confirmed by Dr. Pierce's experience.
It is evident that we have characters which, if stable, would indicate two or three genera of Hominidse additional to Homo.
They are unstable at present; that is, they are not yet invariably found in any race or species of man, or, in other words, are not so associated with other physical characters as to form a correlated index of them.
But experience in paleontology and zoology renders it almost certain that these dental characters will at some future time assume this degree of importance by becoming stable.
This is already indicated by the fact of their being constant in families at the present time.
As to what races will be thus distinguished 1 Proceedings American Philosophical Society, 1871, p. 234. genericalby, it is not easy to indicate, but all those with prognathous crania may be safely excluded.
It is improbable that Mongolian races will earl} 7 participate in such a modification, as the}' have a tendency to prognathism, and a generally strong dental development.
Since the reduction in the number of teeth is intimately connected with orthognathism, it is easy to suppose that it is primarily due to the diminished space allowed by the contracted maxillary arcade.
This contraction is doubtless due to a deficiency of building material, consequent on a transfer of force to some other part of the structure during the period of growth.
This transfer may be to the superior parts of the cranium, which is extended to contain an enlarged brain.
As the loss of a tooth from each side has so far been sufficient to accommodate the dentition to the space which it is to occupy, it is not likely that the absence of both I.
2, and M. III.
will become established.
The reduction in the inferior series is less, and I do not know of any examples of the absence of the external incisors of the lower jaw.
The loss of the third inferior molars is, on the other hand, very common.
It then may be reasonably maintained that two genera of Hominidse will be at some future day added to Homo; that the latter will include the inferior races of men, and the future the superior; that, although in specific characters there may be a want of greater constancy in the species of the new genera as compared with each other than as compared with the primitive and true Homo, they will present cases of what is elsewhere known in zoology, that the same or nearly the same specific characters may be found in different genera.
Under such circumstances the form referred to a new genus becomes at the same time distinct species.
The genera of Hominidae will then, if the characters become constant, be as follows: I.
|; C. |; Pm.
; M. ; Homo.
I. ; C. {; Pm.
; M. ; Metanthropos.
I. f ; C. i; Pm.
; M. ; Epanthropos.
1879.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
195 July 15.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
The death of J.
B. McCreary, a member, was announced.
July 22.
Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
Explosion of a Diamond.
Prof. Leidy exhibited a black agate sleeve button, having mounted upon it, centrally in a raised gold band, a rose diamond about 7 mm.
broad.
It had been submitted to him by Mr. Ernst Kretzmar, jeweller, who informed him that the person who wore it recently was leaning with his head upon his hand, on a window ledge in the sun, when the diamond exploded audibly, and with sufficient force to drive a fragment into his hand, and another into his forehead.
On examining the diamond, the fractured surface, following a cleavage plane, exhibits apparently the remains of a thin cavity, such as is sometimes seen in quartz crj'stals.
The fracture also exposes a conspicuous particle of coal.
Prof. Leid} T thought that the explosion had been due to the sudden expansion of a volatile liquid contained in the cavit} 7 , as frequently occurs in cavities in many minerals.
Mr. Goldsmith thought that the liquid might be carbonic acid, as he was impressed with the idea that diamonds originated from this material in the liquid condition.
July 29.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-four persons present.
The deaths of Francis Garden Smyth, M.D., a member, and Prof. Edouard Spach, a correspondent, were announced.
Remarks on Orgyia Prof. Leidy remarked that Orgyialeucostigma, which now seriously infested the shade trees of our city, especially the horse-chestnuts and silver-maples, had recently passed into the moth stage.
The trunks of the trees, and the surrounding railing of the square opposite to the Academy exhibit a profusion of cocoons.
In seeking for specimens of the male moth, he had collected only three, in a walk along one side of the square, from the railing, where hundreds of the wingless females were to be obtained, as they rested with their foamy white masses of eggs on their cocoons.
From the fewness of the males he was led to suspect that the females might, perhaps, in many instances, deposit the eggs in an nnfecundated condition.
To ascertain if this were so, he collected several dozen cocoons with pupae of females, distinguished by their comparatively robust character, and placed them in a covered box in his study in the third story of a back building, separated from the nearest place where there were other cocoons by the front building and the width of the street in front of his house.
As the females came out of the cocoons, distended with eggs, these, with the exception of a few which appeared to be accidentally dropped in several individuals, were retained.
After some days, as none of the females laid their eggs, the box was uncovered, and on the second morning subsequently, several individuals had deposited masses of eggs, though no males were present in the box.
However, on examining the vicinity, four male moths were detected on the outside of the curtain of the window in which the box had been placed, from which it was supposed that the females had been visited by males attracted during the night from the neighborhood.
The case related reminded him that some years ago a collector of butterflies in the suburbs, informed him that he frequently obtained male specimens of the Cecropiaand Luna moths by pinning females to the side of the window, when, in the morning after, he would almost certainly find males in conjunction with them.
The means by which the males thus find their mates at night and in out-of-the-wajr places were not obvious, as the insects appear to be incapable of producing sounds or scents that are appreciable to our senses.
J. M. Taylor was elected a member.
Gustav Mayr, of Vienna, and C. Emery, of Palermo, were elected correspondents.
August 5.
The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
August 12.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
August 19.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twentj'-three persons present.
August 29.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair, Fourteen persons present.
September 2.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
September 5.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-eight persons present.
A paper entitled "Description of a New Branchipod," by John A. Ryder, was presented for publication.
On Myrmecocystus Mexicanus, Wesm.
Rev.
H. C. McCook exhibited several glass formicaries containing a large number of living specimens of the honey ant, Myrmecocystus Mexicanus, Wesmael.
These embraced three worker castes, major, minor, and dwarf, the honey-hearer, and the fertile queen.
The artificial nests had been brought from the Garden of the Gods, Colorado, where the honey-ant had been discovered by Mr. McCook.
They had previously been supposed to be confined to a more southern latitude.
The nests are found on the tops or southern slopes of ridges.
In exterior architecture they are small gravel-covered moundlets, truncated cones, pierced in the centre by a gate, or perpendicular opening from three to six inches deep.
The interior architecture was illustrated by numerous specimens brought from excavated nests.
It consists of a series of underground galleries and chambers, cut through the gravel and sandstone to the distance of nearly eight feet in length, two to four feet beneath the surface, and about ten to twelve inches in width at the widest part.
The honey-bearers were found hanging in groups to the roofs of the honey chambers by their feet; their large globular abdomens looking like bunches of small Delaware grapes.
About eight to ten chambers, containing each an average of about thirty honeybearers, were found.
The workers cared for the honey-bearers when the chambers were opened, and dragged them into the unopened parts.
The ants proved to be nocturnal in their habits, remaining within doors until after sunset, about 7.30 P. M., each evening, when the workers issued forth in column, and dispersed among the clumps of scrub oak, Quercus undulata.
Here they sought the galls made by a species of Cynips, which grows abundantly on the bushes, and licked therefrom a sweet exudation which issued in small transparent beads from the surface.
From 11.30 P.M. to about 3.30 A. M., when the first streakings of dawn began to appear, the workers returned home laden with the honey.
This appears to be fed to the sedentary honey-bearers by disgorging it in the usual way, and remains within the globular abdomens as a store for future use.
The economy of this habit appears to resemble that of the bee ; the exception being that the bee's honey is stored within the inorganic substance of a waxen cell, while the ant's is lodged within the organic tissue of the living insect.
The above is a brief abstract of observations presented in detail, together with others not here referred to, which will appear in full in subsequent reports of the Academy's Proceedings.
Notices of some Animals on the Coast of New Jersey.
Prof. Leidy exhibited a valve of the beach-clam, Mactra solidissima, which he picked up among the numerous dead and bleaching shells of Brigantine Beach, N. J.
It attracted his attention from its apparently having a fungus growing upon it.
The fungus-like excrescence presented a remarkable resemblance to a Polyporus growing from the stem of a tree.
It is an outgrowth from the lip of the shell, evidently dependent on an abnormal condition of the mantle of the living animal.
Prof. Leidy also stated that he had picked up on the beach at Atlantic City, N. J., another valve of the beach-clam, which had been recently cast on shore.
The inner surface of the shell was covered with a multitude of the beautiful ciliated infusorian, Freia ampulla.
The little creatures were still alive, and their curved, flask-like cases were of a deep green color.
Prof. Leidy further remarked that while at Atlantic City, Mr. Philips had directed his attention to two interesting animals, recently collected.
One of these he recognized as the Bicidium parasiticum, a parasitic anemone or Actinia, found on the large jelly fish, Cyanea arctica, so frequentl}* thrown on shore.
The other was a parasite of the shrimp, Palsemoneles vulgaris, which he recognized as the curious Isopod, Bopyrus.
Many of the shrimps were infested with the parasite, the presence of which produced a conspicuous hemispherical tumor on one side of the carapace.
September 16.
The president, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair, Twenty-two persons present.
The following was ordered to be printed : 200 [1879.
