ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE CHIMPANZEE.
BY H. C. CHAPMAN M.D.
The literature on the anatomy of the Chimpanzee is much more extensive than that on the Gorilla the animal having been dissected by Tyson 1 Traill 2 Vrolik 3 Schroeder Van der Kolk 4 Wyman 5 Marshall 6 Rolleston 7 Wilder 8 Huxley 9 Gratiolet and Alix 10 Turner 11 Humphrey 12 Broca 13 Macalister 14 Bischoff 15 Cliampneys 16 and others.
It may appear therefore superfluous to offer the results of my dissection of the female Chimpanzee Troglodytes niger which recently died at the Zoological Garden of this city.
In comparing however the accounts of the authors just referred to it becomes evident that the animals dissected by them must in some instances have been different species of Chimpanzees and in others that they exhibited individual peculiarities.
The above accounts are moreover often limited to only portions of the body.
Indeed the only elaborate modern treatises I have seen are those of Vrolik and Gratiolet.
The admirable monograph of Tyson old as it is may still be consulted with the greatest advantage.
I propose confining myself to a general account of the Chimpanzee I dissected calling attention more particularly to the points in which it differed from those previously described and the general resemblances and differences between it and the Gorilla and Man.
The specimen dissected by me was a female supposed 1 Anatomy of a Pygmie 1699.
2 Memoirs of Wernerian Society 1821.
3 Recherches sur le Chimpanzee 1841.
4 Schroeder Van der Kolk and Vrolik Amsterdam Verhandelingen 119.
5 Proceedings of Boston Society of N. H. 1856.
6 Natural History Review 1861.
7 Natural History Review vol.
i.
8 Boston Journal of N. H. 1863.
9 Medical Times and Gazette 1861.
10 Nouvelle Archives du Musee 1866.
11 Proceedings of Royal Society of Edinburgh 1866.
12 Journal of Anatomy and Physiology 1867.
13 Bulletin Societe d' Anthropologic 1869.
14 Annals and Mag.
of Nat.
Hist. 1871.
15 Abhandlungen of Munich Acad. 1871.
16 Journal of Anat.
and Phys. 1872. to be about five years old and measured 28 inches from crown of head to sole of the feet.
The upper extremity of right side measured from shoulder to end of middle finger 18 in.
 the lower extremity measured from the head of the femur to the end of the middle toe of the right side 16 inches.
The hand taken from the wrist to the end of the middle finger measured on the right side 5 in.
The right foot considered from homologous points was 5 inches long.
As in the young Gorilla so in the youngChimpanzee Plates IX.
and X. the resemblance of the head to that of a human being of an uncivilized race is more striking than in the adult.
The distinction between the hand and foot in the Chimpanzee is not however so well marked as in the Gorilla the foot superficially considered resembling a hand.
As we shall see however this is only a functional difference the lower extremity in the Chimpanzee terminating structurally in a foot just in the same sense that a man's does all of the apes and monkeys being anatomically bimanous and bipedous and not quadrumanous.
The hand in the Chimpanzee is larger than the foot.
Cervical Region.
On removing the skin I noticed a welldeveloped platysma myoides and so far as I could see this was the only representative of the panniculus carnosus muscle of the lower animals with the exception perhaps of a few scattered fibres in the fascia of the hand corresponding to the palmaris brevis of Man.
The external jugular vein was quite evident.
Next in order came the superficial cervical plexus of nerves and the sternocleido mastoid muscle which differed from that of Man in being divided into sternal and cleidal portions the cleidal portion arising a little lower than the sternal and the insertions being equally distinct.
The spinal accessory nerve separates the two parts of this muscle and differs in this respect from the disposition given by Yrolik as well as in the fact that its internal root joins the pneumogastric.
From this latter nerve the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves pass off to supply the larynx the inferior passing around the subclavian artery on the right side and the aorta on the left as in man.
There was nothing particularly noticeable in the distribution of the glossopharyngeal lingual branch of the 5th or the hypoglossal nerves this latter winding around the external carotid artery passing over the hyoglossus muscle and under the mylohyoid to be lost in the tongue.
The digastric was well developed as also the styloglossus stylohyoid and stylopharyngeus muscles.
Anteriorly I noticed the sternohyoid sternothyroid and thyrohyoid and the little cricothyroid artery passing across the ericothyroid membrane.
Laterally the omohyoid muscle was well developed.
It was held in position by the little band of the cervical fascia and served with the sternocleido mastoid muscle to divide the neck topographical speaking into the triangles.
I noticed that the muscle sometimes called the omocervicalis was well developed.
This muscle arises from the transverse process of the atlas and is inserted into the clavicle  it was very properly described by Tyson as the elevator of the clavicle.
It has been found in Man as an anomaly.
Very human in its appearance was the disposition of the phrenic nerve lying upon the scalenus anticus muscle and coming from the 3d and 4th cervicals.
The muscle separated the subclavian vein from the artery and between it and the scalenus medius the brachial plexus emerged.
The whole cervical region was strikingly human in its disposition and with the exceptions of the sternocleido mastoid muscle being divided into two and in the presence of an omocervicalis muscle the neck of the Chimpanzee would serve the surgical anatomist as material for a demonstration quite as well as that of a human being.
On raising the clavicle the subclavius minor and coracoid ligament were seen well developed the pectoralis muscle however presented a difference from that of Man as it arose from the 2d and 3d ribs and was inserted into the head of the humerus.
The axillary region was very human in its appearance the anterior and posterior thoracic nerves and the intercostohumeral were well developed.
Upper Extremity.
The brachial plexus surrounding the axillary artery exhibited the outer posterior and inner cords the outer coming from the fifth sixth and seventh cervicals the inner from the eighth cervical and first dorsal  the posterior cord from the outer and inner ones.
The plexus gave off as in Man the external cutaneous median ulnar internal cutaneous and musculospiral.
I did not notice however the nerve of Wrisberg the subscapular and suprascapular nerves were found in their customaiy human position.
The disposition of the median ulnar and radial nerves in the hand were the same as in Man.
The latissimocondyloideus muscle was well developed but I could see no difference in the biceps coracobrachialis brachialis anticus and triceps as compared with the same muscles in man.
In the forearm the pronator radii teres arose by two heads the median nerve passing between them as in Man whereas I found only one head in the Gorilla.
The palmaris longus was well developed whereas it was absent in the Gorilla I dissected.
Flexor sublimis digitorum and profundus were more split up than in Man but as a whole there was no marked difference between them and those of Man.
The flexor longus pollicis joined to the perforator of the index was to a certain extent differentiated from the flexor profundus digitorum its tendon passed between the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis.
The other muscles of the thumb and those of the little finger compared favorably with those of Man the lumbricales were large.
The supinator longus arose from the humerus much higher up than in Man.
The extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis terminated in two tendons the secundii internodii pollicis was present but there was no extensor primiinternodii.
I found this muscle however in the Gorilla.
The extensor indicis and extensor minimi digiti terminated in their respective digits singly whereas in the lower monkeys the middle finger is supplied by a slip from the indicis and the ring finger with one from the minimi digiti in addition to the tendons of the extensor communis.
According to some anatomists the extensor indicus in the Chimpanzee supplies both index and middle fingers.
The Chimpanzee seems from the above brief sketch of the muscular system of the upper extremity to be closer allied to Man than the Gorilla inasmuch as the pronator arises by two heads and in having a palmaris longus and a flexor longus pollicis but it differs from the Gorilla and Man in that the extensor ossii metacarpi divides into two tendons and in there being no extensor primi internodii pollicis.
Lower Extremity.
Traill 1 in his account of the Chimpanzee figures a muscle which he called the scansorius rising from the ileum and inserted into the femur.
This muscle appears to me to be simply a part of the gluteus minimus.
According to Vrolik 2 the tensor vaginae femoris had been confounded with the socalled scansorius by Traill but in my specimen the former muscle was very well developed and I should not have noticed any thing particular about the gluteus had not a portion of it been described ' Traill op.
ciL Plate I.
Fig.
1.
2 Vrolik op.
cit. p. 21. separately as the seansorius.
The rotators of the thigh were present.
The adductors are five in number.
The semimembranosus and semitendinosus as in the Gorilla hardly deserve names characteristic of their homolognes in Man as they are quite muscular.
The gracilis is very large.
The sartorius however rather slender.
There was a well developed popliteus but no plantaris muscle.
The soleus arose by the fibular head only.
As regards the anterior aspect of the leg the tibialis anticus splits into two tendons the extensor longus digitorum was present but the socalled peronens tertius was absent.
The extensor longus hallucis and extensor brevis digitorum were well developed as also the peroneus longus and brevis on the fibular side of the leg.
The flexor accessorius was absent.
The flexor brevis digitorum supplied the second and third toes only the tendinous slips for the fourth and fifth came from the flexor longus digitorum  whereas in the Gorilla the slip for the fifth came from the flexor longus hallucis.
In the Chimpanzee the slip for the fifth toe is veiy delicate and like that of the Gorilla is not perforated.
There is quite an intimate union between the fibres of the flexor longus hallucis and digitorum.
The special muscles of the minimi digiti and hallux are well developed and in addition to the ordinary flexor brevis hallucis I noticed a delicate muscular slip arising from the calcaneum in common with the flexor brevis which was inserted into the phalanx of the hallucis.
Its action was to flex the hallux.
This little slip was also seen in the other foot.
So far as I know it has not been described before in the Chimpanzee.
There was no transversus pedis.
The little slip called by Prof. Huxley the abductor ossi metacarpi quinti digiti I noticed in the left foot.
There was nothing remarkable about the bloodvessels of the lower extremity except that the saphenous vein did not pass into the femoral through the saphenous opening which was well developed in the Gorilla and the anterior tibial artery was very small its place being supplied by a large vessel coming from the femoral at about the position of the anastomotic magna in the human being.
I ventured to call this vessel in the Gorilla the long saphenous artery as it accompanied the artery and nerve of the same name to the foot in that animal.
The nerves did not differ essentially from those of man.
Alimentary Canal and Appendages.
The tongue in the Chimpanzee is thicker than in man.
I found the circumvallate papillae arranged in the form of a Y as in man and not a T as has been found to be the case in other specimens.
The parotid gland was large the duct of Steno crossed the masseter.
The submaxillary was absolutely very large.
The stomach was very human in shape.
The length of the small intestine was eight feet that of the large two and a half.
The vermiform appendix measured six and a half inches.
The Peyer's patches in small intestine were very striking.
There are no valvulse conniventes.
There was nothing peculiar about the spleen or pancreas  in reference to the liver the quadrate lobe was not well differentiated and the caudate lobe was thick rather than caudate.
1 noticed an interesting fact in reference to the peritoneum  When the great omentum was raised the transverse colon was seen to be attached to its under surface as in Man  whereas in other monkeys and the lower mammals the transverse colon is quite separate from the great omentum.
This condition is also seen in the human foetus but as development advances in it the peritoneum covering the transverse colon becomes adherent to the great omentum and ultimately in Man appears as one structure.
In this respect the Chimpanzee agrees with Man and differs from the monkeys.
I do not know whether this disposition has been observed before in the Chimpanzee or the other anthropoids.
I suspect the same' disposition obtains in the Gorilla.
Respiratory and Circulatory Systems.
As is well known in the male Chimpanzee and the other anthropoids the ventricles of the larynx are enormously dilated these pouches extending up into the neck even under the trapezius muscle and over the breast into the axillse.
Noticing during life that the voice of the female Chimpanzee was so much weaker than her mate I was prepared to find these ventricular pouches very rudimentary even if developed at all.
According to some anatomists these pouches have no influence upon the voice.
The pouches however extended even in the female up to the hyoid bone and base of the tongue.
The cricothyroid thyroarytenoid cricoarytenoid lateralis and posticus and arytenoid raus cles were well developed.
The inferior vocal cord or more properly vocal membrane was of a triangular shape and quite distinguishable from the remaining part of the mucous membrane.
The right lung was divided into three lobes the left into two as in Man.
I noticed that the left carotid and left subclavian arteries came 5 off from a common vessel a short innominate differing in this respect from the Gorilla and VrolikV Chimpanzee which in the disposition of its great bloodvessels is like that of Man.
Genitourinary Organs.
I3elieving that the transitory stages through which a human being passes in utero are often permanently retained through life in the lower animals it appeared to me that the best way of determining the question as to whether the Chimpanzee had the external and internal labia of the human female was to compare my specimen with a human female foetus.
The opportunity of examining two negro foetuses about five months old presenting itself at the same time that I was dissecting the Chimpanzee I compared the generative apparatus of all three and 1 am satisfied that they are morphologically essentially the same for in the Chimpanzee there is a welldeveloped clitoris with frenum and prepuce below the frenum the internal labia are un distinguishable from the external and these latter are undeveloped above the clitoris.
The whole appearance of the uterus vagina and ovaries in the Chimpanzee is also similar to the internal organs of the human foetus.
The bladder was large and the kidneys resembled those of man in their form and differed from that of the Orang in having more than one papilla.
The Brain.
The brain of the Chimpanzee has been described by several anatomists and figured by Tyson Tiedmann 2 Vrolik Schroeder van der Kolk 3 Gratiolet 4 Rolleston Marshall Turner Bischoff Broca and others.
As the existence of a  posterior lobe posterior cornu and hippocampus minor in the brain of the Chimpanzee and other apes and monkeys gave rise to a memorable discussion some years ago it was with great interest that I hastened as soon as possible after death a few hours to open the skull of the Chimpanzee and to examine the brain in situ.
The brain weighed 10 ounces 10 grains.
I confess to my great surprise I found the cerebellum uncovered b' the cerebrum to the extent shown in the illustrations Plate XI. Figs.
1 and 2 and XII. Figs.
1 and 2 and remembering Prof. Huxley's criticism that 5 his error must become patent even to himself if he try to replace the brain 1 Vrolik op.
cit. Plate VI.
Fig.
4.
2 Philos.
Transactions 1836.
3 Schroeder Van der Kolk and Vrolik Amsterdam Verhandelingen 1849.
4 Plis cerebraux de 1' Homme 1854.
5 Man's Place in Nature p. 97. within the cranial chamber I did so and yet the cerebellum remained uncovered.
Is it possible that in my young female Chimpanzee the posterior lobe had not attained its full growth or that in some Chimpanzees the posterior lobe covers the cerebellum and in others it does not 
According to Prof. Huxley this is the case among the Gibbons for in referring to the Siamang he says this 1  is remarkable for the short posterior lobes of the cerebrum which in this anthropomorphous ape do not overlap the cerebellum as they do in all the others.
On the other hand Prof. Bischoff observes in his Beitrage on the Hylobates  Dagegen kann ich Flower unci Huxley darin nicht beistimmen das die hinteren Lappen des grossen Gehirns eine sehr bemerkenswerthe Reduction gegen die der Gehirne der anderen Anthropoiden darin zeigen dass sie das kleine Gehirn nicht mehr vbllig bedeckten.
Bei meinem Hylobates ist das kleine Gehirn vollstandiug durch die Hinterlappen des grossen Gehirns bedeckt.
2 It appears to me more likely that in some Gibbons the cerebellum is covered and in others not than that such eminent anatomists as Professors Huxley Flower and Bischoff should be opposed in reference to a mere matter of observation and so with regard to the diversity of opinion as to the cerebellum being covered by the posterior lobes of the cerebrum in the Chimpanzee.
According to Huxley Rolleston Marshall Gratiolet etc. the cerebellum is covered by the cerebrum in the Chimpanzee.
In the figures of the Chimpanzee given by Tyson Tiedemann Yrolik Schroeder Van der Kolk and Vrolik the cerebellum is uncovered by the posterior lobes of the cerebrum.
Tiedemann says  The hemispheres of the brain are relatively to the spinal marrow medulla cerebellum etc. smaller than in man.
3 According to Vrolik the Chimpanzee brain is distinguished from the human par un moindre developpement des hemispheres du cerveau qui ne recouvrent tout le cervelet.
 Gratiolet in referring to the figures of the brain of the Chimpanzee in Schroeder Van der Kolk's and Vrolik's paper in the Amsterdam Verhandelingen for 1849 speaks of the brain as being  profondement aflaise.
Now while these eminent anatomists admit the justness of Grati1 Anatomy of Vertebrates p. 410.
2 Beitrage etc. Munich Aband 1870 p. 272.
3 Philos.
Trans. p. 518. i Recherches p. 39. olet's criticism jet they observe in their  Note sur l'encephale de l'Orang in the Amsterdam Yerslagen for 1802 page 7  A vrai dire ce lobe posterieur ou occipital ne se prulonge pas autantque chez l'homme il ne recouvre pas si bien lecervelet du moins il ne la cache pas completement surtout vers les cotes mais il n'y a rien la dedans qui nous empeche de lui donner le nom qui lui est du.
Par rapport an developpement du cervelet nous ne croyons pas faire une chose inutile en rappelant que d'apres les mesures que nous avons publiees en 1849 le cervelet du Chimpanse et de l'Orang est proportionnellement plus grand que celui de l'homme.
Cela doit avoir une certaine influence sur la maniere dont il se trouve pour une partie a decouvert chez ces animaux qui ont les lobes occipitaux moins e'tendus que ceux de l'homme.
Their plate Fig.
1 giving the brain of the Orang shows quite plainly the cerebellum partially uncovered by the cerebrum.
In my Chimpanzee the cerebellum was extremely well developed as ma' be seen from Plate XL Fig.
2.
Should future investigation show that the posterior lobes of the cerebrum do not invariably overlap the cerebellum as in the Chimpanzee dissections just referred to and in the Orang of Vrolik and Gibbon of Huxley it will only be another instance of the truth that the lower monkeys in some respects are more nearly allied to man than the Anthropoids for I have found the cerebellum entirely covered by the cerebrum in the genera Macacus Cynocephalus Semnojyithecus Ateles Gebus etc.
Prof. Huxle observes  if a man cannot see a church it is preposterous to take his opinion about its altarpiece or its painted windows any one who cannot see the posterior lobe in an ape's brain is not likely to give a very valuable opinion respecting the posterior cornu or the hippocampus minor.
1 Now it does not follow because the cerebrum did not overlap the cerebellum in my Chimpanzee that there was no posterior lobe.
It is one thing to state that the posterior lobe did not entirely conceal the cerebellum and another that the posterior lobe did not exist at all.
Further when the proper section was made of the lobe the posterior cornu of the ventricle was very evident Plate XII. Fig.
3 as also the hippocampus minor and indeed there was the eminentia collateralis as well.
It seemed to me that it was not so much that the posterior lobe with its contents was undeveloped in Man's Place in Nature p. 99. the Chimpanzee as it was that the cerebellum was relatively to the cerebrum very much developed Plate XII. Fig.
1.
Of late years the convolutions of the human brain have been very carefully described and compared with those of the lower animals among others by Bischorf Ecker Gratiolet Pansch and Ilusche.
And through the development of the theory based upon pathological experimental and comparative anatomical facts that ceeteris paribus the grade of the intelligence is proportional to the number and complexities of the gyri and sulci the comparison of the brain of an anthropoid with that of Man becomes very interesting.
So far as I know the first distinct statement that the convolutions are most numerous in the brain of Man and that his superior intelligence is due to this is to be found in the works of Eristratus as quoted by Galen.
In 1664 Willis called attention to the lower animals having convolutions though fewer than Man and that certain animals like monkeys had more of them than carnivorous ones'etc.
Vicq.
D'Azyr in 1789 noticed the want of symmetry in the convolutions in the brain of Man.
In 1794 Malacarne called especial attention to the convolution known as the gyrus fornicatus.
Tiedemann in 1816 treated of the development of the convolutions.
While undoubtedly the anatomists just referred to may be said to have begun the study of the convolutions nevertheless it appears to me that the credit of a sj'stematic study of the folds and fissures in a group of animals the comparison of such with those of Man and the extension of such investigation to the mammalia generally belongs to Prof. Richard Owen who in 1833 distinguished in the Felidaa the folds by letters and the fissures by figures and what is more named them.
In 1842 his views were much extended in the lectures delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons when the homologous convolutions were brought out strikingly in the diagrams by colors.
Leaving this little historical digression and returning to the brain of the Chimpanzee I think it may be stated that in most of the specimens examined so far all of the convolutions and fissures described in the human brain can be identified.
There is no difficulty in recognizing the four lobes the frontal parietal occipital and temporal Plate XL Fig.
1  Plate XII. Fig.
1.
The central lobe or island of Red which is very slightly convoluted is entirely concealed in the Chimpanzee.
The frontal lobe exhibits the upper middle and lower frontal convolutions 1 separated by the upper and lower frontal fissure the latter passing into the vertical frontal precenti'al.
The central fissure Rolando is well marked a little more forward in the Chimpanzee than in Man separating the anterior and posterior central convolutions.
The fissure of Sylvius is in such relation with the interparietal and temporal fissures that the supramarginal and angular convolutions are identical with those of Man.
The ascending branch of the Sylvian fissure also passes in between the middle frontal and precentral fissures as in Man.
The first second and third temporal convolutions with the first and second temporal fissures are as distinct in the Chimpanzee as in Man and the continuity of the occipital and temporal lobes through the lower temporal convolutions 3d and 4th plis de passage of Gratiolet is as unbroken' in our ape as in the human being.
Further the three convolutions of the occipital lobe with its transverse occipital and inferior longitudinal fissures do not present any very marked differences from the homologous structure in Man.
Up to this point I believe I have made no statements in reference to the fissures and convolutions of the brain of the Chimpanzee which have not been substantially made before.
There has however been and is still a diversity of opinion in reference to the parts of the occipital convolutions which bridge over the external perpendicular fissure which seems to be a continuation of the internal perpendicular or parietooccipital fissure.
The convolutions which I have referred to above as the upper and middle occipital convolutions pass in Man and Ateles so insensibly into the upper parietal lobule and angular convolutions respectively that apparently no external perpendicular fissure exists  the parietooccipital however being apparent enough.
In the Chimpanzee that I dissected the external perpendicular fissure is quite apparent but the two occipital convolutions seem to me to be present the upper one serving to partially bridge over the inner part of the external perpendicular fissure connecting the upper occipital with the upper parietal lobule the middle occipital passing into the angular convolution and bridging over the outer part of the external perpendicular fissure the difference then in the brain of the Chimpanzee and Man in this respect being one essentially of degree the 1 I make use of the nomenclature of Ecker in  Cerebral Convolutions of Man English synonymes.
upper occipital convolution in Man being more superficial than in the ape.
The upper occipital convolution according to Huxley and Gratiolet is absent in the Chimpanzee but has been found at least on one side in the specimens described by Rolleston Marshall Turner and Broca.
The upper and middle occipital convolutions so far as I have been able to compare them seem to correspond to the convolutions described under the names of Plis de passage  Bridging  Annectant gyri andObere innere unci aussere SeheitelbogenWindungen.
The only other peculiarity that I noticed in the Chimpanzee was in reference to the parietooccipital fissure of the right side which did not reach the calcarine being separated by the deuxieme plis du passage interne of Gratiolet and that on both sides the calcarine lissure passed into the hippocampal so that the gyrus fornicatus did not pass into the convolution of the hippocampus as in Man.
In this latter respect however Ateles Paniscus one case of Hylobates and Turner's Chimpanzee agree with Man and disagree with all the other monkeys.
The mesial side or the base of the brain did not present anything very different from Man so far as they were susceptible of examination.
The nerves coming from the base of the brain were however relatively very large.
With all deference to Prof. Bischoff I cannot agree that the  Klu ft zwischen der hohen Entwicklung der Grosshirnwindung des Menschen und derjenigen des Oi'ang oder der Chimpanse liisst sich nicht ausfullen durch Hinweisung auf die Kluft zwischen der Entwicklung dieser Windungen zwischen dem Orang oder Chimpanse und Lemur.
Letztere ist ausgefiillt durch die zwischen beiden liegenden Arten der Affen.
Die Ausfullung der ersteren muss noch gefunden werden.
1 On the contrary it appears to me that on the whole the gap between the brain of the Chimpanzee and Man is less than that between the Chimpanzee and the lower monkeys  and though it is not generally considered so that the brain of the Chimpanzee resembles that of Man quite as closely as that of the Orang.
Resume.
In considering the Chimpanzee in the totality of its organization it appears to me to be as closely allied to Man as the Gorilla but it must be remembered that like it in the absence of certain muscles etc. the Chimpanzee and Gorilla are both less like Man than the lower monkeys.
1 Die Grosshirnwindungen p. 492.
Munich Aband.
1868.
March 4.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Thirtysix persons present.
March 11.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Forty persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication   On the Nudibranehiate Gasteropod Mollusca of the North Pacific Ocean by Dr. R. Bergh. 
On the Variability 7 of Sphseria Quercuum Schw. by J.
B. Ellis.
The death of Dr. J. H. McQuillen a member was announced.
Note on Opuntia prolifera.
Eng.
Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited specimens of proliferous fruit of this species sent by Mr. Jackson Lewis of San Jose California.
The fruit of three years ago were still fresh and green and these produced other fruit immediately succeeding the last year.
Mr. Meehan remarked that similar cases were on record in Masters' Teratology and in connection with this species in Brewer and Watson's  Flora of California.
The latter authors state that the proliferous fruit are always sterile but in cutting open twenty from those exhibited one was found with a perfect seed.
Mr. Meehan pointed out the value of these abnormal growths in explaining structure and function.
In the succulent Cactacere we speak of the small green bodies which appear and early mature on the young growth as the leaves but we know from morphological law that the whole fruit is formed of metamorphosed primordial leaves and there is no reason why the whole body of the cactus might not be formed in the same wa' and we should then perhaps have to regard the socalled  leaves as mere appendages.
At any rate here is a case of what should have been fruit enduring but a few months assuming a permanent stemcharacter and performing all the functions usually connected with stem.
It seemed scarcely to leave room for a doubt that not only the parts of the inflorescence but the whole stemstructure is but  modified leaf in textbook language.
Again a lesson is afforded in relation to the essential difference between growth and reproductive force.
The one of course grew out of the other and is in a great degree corelative and yet they are in a great measure antagonistic forces and it is as useful to recognize them as such as to note the distinction between leaf blade and petiole or liber cells and wood cells.
Assuming the distinction between these two forces we are able to express the true character of tins abnormal formation.
The reproductive force after influencing structure towards its especial object had been again subjected by the growth or more properly vegetative force and it was thus enabled though in an imperfect manner to continue in the line of its especial function.
Of course all of these distinctive powers in plants come down ultimately to varying phases of nutrition and in this direction we are to look for the secret whereby nature is enabled to make up the innumerable forms and conditions of living things.
March 18.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentynine persons present.
The deaths of the following members were announced J.
B. Knight E. Spencer Miller Clement Biddle Henry J. Williams.
March 25.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Seventythree persons present.
A paper entitled Notes on Amphiumaby Dr. H. C. Chapman was presented for publication.
Edw.
D. Cope was elected to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by the death of Dr. J. H. McQuillen.
Win.
L. Auchincloss and Joseph Mellors were elected members.
Wm.
H. Leggett of New York John M. Coulter of Hanover Ind. and George Bentham F.L.S. of London were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be published  ON THE VARIABILITY OF SPH.ERIA QUERCUTJM Schw.
BY J.
B. ELLIS.
Among the Sphreriaceous fungi of Southern New Jersey no species perhaps is oftener met with than Spheeria Quercuum Schw.
And perhaps it might be added no species is more difficult to define and classify.
Fries includes it among the  Confluentes remarking Elench.
ii.
p. 84 that many species of that section approach very near to the Dothideas.
Berkeley in  Grevillea places it in Melogramma taking that genus doubtless as defined in his Outlines of British Fungology p. 391 and by Fries in Sum.
Yeg.
Scan.
p. 386.
Tulasne however who had examined this species did not include it his genus Melogramma see his Selecta Fungorum Carpologia vol.
ii.
p. 81.
On examining the two genera Melogramma and Dothidea it will be seen that there are no salient and unmistakable characters by which they majbe distinguished.
Tulasne 1. c says of his genus Melogramma  Perithecia globosa ex parietibus nunc e parenchymate materno vix distinctis nee solubilibus nunc contra sine negotio sejungendis facta  a definition which will include two different types of perithecia viz. those with walls not separable from the substance of the stroma and others with walls readily separable  in the former case scarcely distinguishable from Dothidea in which genus the ascigerous nucleus is contained in cavities in the stroma without any distinct perithecium.
Perhaps the most obvious character separating the two genera may be found in the stroma which is more highly developed in Dothidea but even here species occur Dothidea perisporioides B.
 C. for example where the stroma is so imperfectly developed as to leave the classification somewhat doubtful.
Not less difficult is it to refer to their proper place the various forms of Sphseria Quercnum Schw. occurring as it does now scattered and distinct and again on the same branch confluent and united in a stroma more or less evident  now with hardly a trace of an ostiolum and again with a distinct cjdindric beak equalling in length onefourth or onethird the height of the perithecium itself.
The various forms however all agree in having normally a subcuticular origin on the surface of the inner bark just beneath the epidermis which is soon ruptured with many small openings where the perithecia are scattered or with much larger gaps where several perithecia more or less distinctly confluent are grouped together.
On peeling oft the epidermis the perithecia are generally left adhering to the inner bark though in some cases where the cuticle is thick and tough as in the cherry they adhere to the inner surface of the cuticle itself.
The mycelium which spreads over and penetrates the matrix consists of variously branched and anastomosing dark brown septate threads which are more luxuriant in proportion as the substance of the matrix is of a soft and spongy nature.
This mycelium assumes at length a darker shade so that the substance of the bark and the subjacent surface of the wood becomes finally almost black.
The perithecia are always filled at first with a white grumous mass which is closely attached to the inclosing walls and from which are slowly developed the organs of fructification.
The mature perithecia at length become black within and the upper portion breaks away leaving the cupshaped base attached to the matrix.
Having now for several years studied these various forms I am satisfied that Sphseria Quercuum Schw.
includes all the following socalled species viz. Sphseria mutila Fr.
 1 S. ambigua Schw.
 S. Melise Schw.
 S. entaxia C.  E. in Grevillea vol.
6 p. 14  S. eriostega Id.
 8. viscosa Id. vol.
5 p. 34  S. erratica Id. vol.
6 p. 95  S. thyoidea Id. vol.
6 p. 14  S. jnriospora Ell.
Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club v. p. 46  Botryosphseria pustulata Sacc.
Fungi Yeneti Ser.
IV.
p. 3  Dothidea venenata C.  E. in Grev. vol.
5 p. 95  D. Cerasi Id. vol 5 p. 34  Thumenia Wisterias Rehm in Mycotheca Universalis No.
971 Melogramma Wisterias Cke. Grev.
vol.
7 p. 51 and probably Sphseria Hibisci Schw S. Persimmons Schw.
 and S. Gratsegi Schw.
Valsa mahaleb C.  E. in Grev. vol.
6 p. 11 is also according to my specimens only the young and imperfectly developed state of the same thing.
Melogramma Aceris C.  E. Grev. vol.
7 p. 8 is also without much doubt to be included in the above list though this species and S. eriostega C.  E. are unknown to me except from the descriptions in Grevillea.
Of all the others I 1 At least as that species is represented in Rav.
Fungi Caroliniani Exsiccati Fasc.
III.
No.
62.
See also remark in Grevillea vol.
4 p. 97 uuder Melogramma Quercuum Schw.
have examined authentic specimens most of them in all stages of growth.
In all these different forms the character of the fructification is the same or at most there is only a slight variation in the size of the asci and sporidia so that from a microscopical examination of the fruit alone it would be impossible to say to which of the above species any particular specimen should be referred.
This similarity will be readily seen on examining the figures in Grevillea illustrating the species cited.
All have the same broad clavate obtuse stipitate asci which are often subject to a kind of deformit' being bent almost double.
The paraphyses are simple or sparingly branched of a gelatinous nature and like the asci soon dissolved.
The sporidia are tworanked mostly broad navicular without septa hyaline or filled with granular matter mixed with oil globules and become at length brown.
Some of the sporidia are of a regularly elliptical shape these are generally shorter and broader while the navicular sporidia are often much longer and narrower.
The average size of the sporidia is about .03 mm long by 013 mm broad.
In all the different forms the ascigerous perithecia are accompanied by others producing stylospores of the Diplodia or Sphseropxis type.
Sphseropsis fibriseda C.  E  Grew 5 p. 89.
Diplodia thyoidea C.  E. Grev.
5 p.
32.
These stylospores never assume the navicular form but are always regularly elliptical smaller than the ascospores subhyaline and granular at first soon becoming brown.
Other perithecia are filled with minute hyaline oblong or subglobose micrpstylospores spermatia of which Phoma fibriseda C.  E. Grev.
6 p. 2 is an example.
The stylosporous perithecia may generally be distinguished from the others by their short cylindric ostiola which in the ascigerous perithecia are oftener nearly obsolete.
By referring to the description of Sphseria eriostega in Grev.
6 p. 14 it will be seen that mention is there made of certain brown biseptate free spores supposed to be ascospores.
These brown biseptate spores are found in all the aforesaid forms  sparing indeed for the most part but always present and easily recognized among the generally hyaline sporidia.
I have never seen these peculiar spores contained in asci though I have examined during the past four years probably some hundreds of specimens.
I consider them however to be true sporidia and have supposed that the formation of septa is only the first step in the process of germination though unfortunately I can only conjecture this as the sporidia which I have tried to cultivate on slides of moistened glass have thus far refused to germinate.
From an examination of the above notes it will he seen that disregarding the somewhat variable ostiola the various forms above noted differ from each other only in the fact that in some the perithecia are confluent and united in a partial stroma while in others they are scattered and without any distinct stroma.
The only question then is whether this variation alone is sufficient to constitute a specific difference
Were this variability in the vegetative character accompanied by a corresponding variation in the fruit there could be but one answer but as has been already stated and as maybe seen by referring to the figures published in Grevillea and as 1 hope to show by the publication of actual specimens in the North American Fungi the fructification in all these different forms is essentially the same.
With just as much reason might a specific distinction be made between the cluster of culms sprung from a single grain of wheat planted in a good soil and the single culm from another grain growing in a poorer soil.
This same variation in an allied species Sphaeria gyrosa Schw. was not considered by Fries as by any means sufficient to warrant a specific distinction.
In his Elenchus Fungorum vol.
ii.
p. 84 under S. gyrosa he says  Erumpunt hoec tuberculosa composita e rimis corticis Quercus  sed in ligno decorticato eadem adest omnino simplex conferta subconfluens punctiformis absque stromate distincto  singularis morphosis sed in hac tribu non vara.
These remarks apply as accurately at least to the form onBhus venenata i. e. to Dothidea venenata C.  E. as if made Avith reference to that particular case.
If then these different forms are to be united it only remains to decide whether they are to be referred to the genus Spheeria or to Melogramma or Dothidea or whether it would be better to follow 7 the example of some of the transatlantic mycologists and create a new genus for this particular case.
But as the number of new genera many of them with characters sufficiently obscure is every day increasing it would seem better to avoid this latter alternative.
Throwing aside next in this case the generic name of Sphseria from which genus the fungus under consideration may perhaps with propriety be excluded on account of the peculiar character of its perithecia there remains either Dothidea or Melogramma to be adopted.
As remarked in Grevillea vol.
5 p. 34 under Dothidea Gerasi C.  E. that species is scarcely a good Dothidea for  the cells often approximate to perithecia this remark applies equally well to Dothidea venenata C.  E. and to all the other species enumerated.
There remains the genus Melogramma with the characters of which our fungus at least in its confluent forms agrees sufficiently well nor are the varieties in which the perithecia are scattered and single properly to be excluded.
The fact that with age the upper portion of the perithecium falls away leaving the base attached shows that in every case there is at least the rudiments of a stroma to which the basal portion of the perithecium is permanently attached.
A careful microscopic examination reveals the presence of this rudimentary stroma formed from the condensed fibres of the mycelium at those points where the perithecia originate.
Nor yet is the form of the sporidia inconsistent with the characters given by Tulasne to the sporidia of his genus Melogramma viz.
  Sporre ssepius distichre linearilanceolatae vel ovatae et utrinque obtusissimaa curvse rectseve pluriloculares aut continuae fucatse vel pallidas.
The sporidia in our fungus are not ovate it is true but the elliptical form approaches so near to that shape that it hardly seems best to exclude the species on that account.
According to Tulasne I. c and Fries Elench.
ii.
p. 85 Sphseria Quercuum Schw.
is the same as Sphseria fuliginosa Pers. at least as that species is represented in the Exsiccata of Mougeot and Nestler though Fries 1. c. does not consider it the same as the Sphseria fuliginosa of Persoon's Synopsis.
Without undertaking to determine whether the Sphseria Quercuum Schw. is really identical with the original Sphseria fuliginosa Pers. we are warranted in assuming on the aforesaid authority that it is at least the same as the Sphseria fuliginosa of the Exsiccata of Mougeot and Nestler so that it will be proper to adopt '''fuliginosa'''' as the specific name for our variable species especially as the specific name Quercuum given by Schweinitz is only applicable to a single form.
The name fuliginosa also is peculiarly appropriate on account of the sooty color of the old mycelium.
If then the foregoing conclusions are correct all the abovementioned species should be reduced to one which it is proposed to designate as Melogramma fuliginosa.
