CARCINOLOGICAL NOTES No.
I.
BY J. S. KINGSLEY.
It is the intention of the writer in this series of notes to give descriptions of new species, rectifications of synonj'my, facts relating to geographical distribution, and other matters of importance concerning the Decapoda.
Unless otherwise stated all specimens are in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences ^ of Philadelphia.
Genus PSEUDOTHELPHTJSA Saussure.
{Potamia Latr.
et Boscia Edw.
preoc.)
Fseudothelphusa latifrons.
Potamia latifrons Randall, Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, viii.
p. 120.
Carapax smooth, regions and sutures indistinct.
Frontal crest very prominent, uninterrupted.
Front reflexed, making with the surface of carapax an angle of about 45°, its margin undulating and its surface and margin granulate.
From the front arise processes which all but join the inferior margin of the orbit.
Superior margin of orbit crenulated.
Anterolateral teeth more prominent than in any other of the genus and extending back to the posterior third of the carapax.
Below, the carapax is ever}where granulate and especiall}^ so on the sub-branchial regions and near the mouth.
Inferior margins of orbits denticulate.
Chelipeds nearly equal.
Anterior surface of meros granulate, as are the outer portions of carpus and upper portions of the hands.
The dactyli with rows of small tubercles above.
The species is a true Pseudothelphusa, the antennae being as in that genus, but the reflexed front gives it a peculiar appeai'ance and with the larger anterolateral teeth will readily separate it rom all other known forms.
The emargination of the external margin of the orbit is no more marked than in P. chilensis (Edw.
and Lucas) Smith, the type of which, by the waA', is in the Museum of the Academy.
Pseudothelpusa sinuatifrons (A.
M.-Elw.)
Smith.
The locality of this species was not known to Alphonse MilneEdwards.
There are two males in the Academy's collection from San Domingo (W. M. Gabb}.
1880.
J 35 Genus DILOCAECINUS.
Dilocaremus pardalinus Gerstsecker, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte xxii, p. 148, 1856.
Gerstaecker gives doubtfully South America as the habitat of this species.
There are specimens with the label " ?
Upper Amazon, Dr.
Wilson."
Dilocarciaus spinifrons, nov. Carapax regularly arcuate, regions obsolete, sides arcuate, armed with four spines besides the spiniform angle of the orbit ; the margins of the spines finely serrate.
Superior margin of the orbit obscurely crenulate, inferior denticulate with a strong spine near the interior angle.
Front advanced, with about fourteen spines.
A spine at the anterolateral angles of the buccal area.
Chelipeds sub-equal, meros with two spines at about the middle of the posterior margin and a single one on the anterior margin at about the middle, and one on the distal portion of the upper margin ; the spine on the interior surface of the corpus long, slender, acute.
Hand with an acute spine above at the articulation of the dactylus, fingers with the denticulations fine but acute.
Ambulatory feet less dilated than is usual in this genus.
The spined front readily separates this from all other species.
Upper Amazon, Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Genus THELPHUSA (including Geothelphusa Stm.)
Of this genus forty -five species have been described.
The localities from which I have examined specimens are marked with an exclamation point (!).
africana A. M.-Edw.
West Africa, anchietae Capello.
West Africa, andersoniana Wood-Mason.
Burmah.
anfustifrons A. M.-Edw.
Australia, aubryi M.-Edw.
West Coast Africa (!)
; Natal (!).
aurantia Ilerklots.
pelii Herklots.
atkinsoniana Wood-Mason.
Northern India, aasteniana Wood-Mason.
India, bayonioa Capello.
West Africa.
bayonica var.
a, Capello.
West Africa.
berardi Savigny.
Egypt, Nile (!
); Red Sea.
ehilensis (Heller) A. M.-Edw.
Chili, corrugata Heller, crassa A. M.-Edw.
oristata A. M.-Edw.
dehaani White.
berardi DeHaan.
japonica Herklots.
denticulata M.-Edw.
depressa Krauss.
difformis M.-Edw.
edwardsii Wood-Mason flaviatilis (Bosc.)
Latr.
Mediterranean Region, Greece (!
), Gaarda Sea (!
), (Museum Peabody Academy).
grapBoides White.
Manilla.
?
siibqnadrata Gerst.
gondoti M.-Edw.
Madagascar, Madras, Java.
Australia.
East Indies(!).
Japan.
China, Port Natal.
Red Sea.
Burmah.
36 [1880. gaerini M.-Edw.
India.
hispida Wood-Mason.
Burmah.
hydrodromus Gerst.
indica Latr.
cam'cularis Westwood.
?
aitranlia Gerstaecker.
?
rotunda Freycinet.
infiata M.-Edw.
jagori von Martens.
Isevis Wood-Mason.
larnaudi A. M -Edw.
leschenaulti Edw.
India (!
), Mauritius, Tahita.
lugubris Wood-Mason.
India, margaritaria A. M.-Edw.
West Africa.
nilotica M. Edw.
Nile.
India.
Pt.
Natal.
Philippines.
India.
Siam, obesa A. M.-Edw.
Zanzibar, obtusipes (Stm.)
A. M.-Edw.
Japan, Philippine*, perlata Edw.
South Africa, Pt.
Natal (!
), philippena von Martens.
Philippines.
picta von Martens.
Philippines* planata A. M.-Edw.
Bombay.
= ?
guerini M. Edw.
siamensis A. M.-Edw.
Siam.
sinuatifrons M.-Edw.
Unknown, stoliczkana Wood-Mason.
Penang.
subquadrata Gerst.
= ?
yrapsoides.
transversa von Martens.
Australia, tumida Wood-Mason.
Burmah.
To this list I would add three more : Thelphusa emarginata nov. Carapax glabrous, longitudinally strongly arched.
Post-frontal crest continuous, nearly straight, obscurely orenulate, epibranchial tooth obsolete, a tootli between the extremity of the post-frontal crest and the angle of the orbit.
Protogastric region very short, front about one-fourth the width of carapax, slightly sinuate.
External angle of orbit slightly emargiuate.
Anterolateral margin cristate ; crest, however, soon becoming obsolete.
Chelipeds sub-equal, meros with the margins tuberculate and with a strong spine on the distal portion.
Upper and outer surface of carpus with indistinct squamje, inner portion two-spined, the proximal spine exhibiting a tendency to become bifid.
Hands with the upper margin obsoletely tuberculate, fingers roughened, not gaping.
Ambulatory feet slender, compressed.
Is very near T. depressa Krauss, but ditfers from that species in the narrower and straighter front, the tooth just behind the angle of the orbit, and in the non-gaping fingers of the chelipeds.
Length 34 mm., breadth 56 mm.
West Africa, Du Chaillu ; Fori Natal, Dr. T. B. Wilson.
The name is proposed on account of the emargination of the orbit.
Thelphusa enodis nov. Carapax smooth ; post frontal crest wanting.
Epibranchial tooth very small.
Front narrow, strongly curved downward, its margin concave, Chelipeds unequal, hands with the inferior margin regularly arcuate.
Is very closely allied to T. Isevis, but differs in the flatter carapax, the concave front, and the regularly arcuate lo^j^er margin of the hands.
In all other respects Mr. Wood-Mason's description and figures (Journal Asiatic Society of Bengal, vol.
xl, p. 201, PI.
xiv, fig.
1-6) would well appl}' to it.
Ceylon.
Thelphusa rugosa nov, Carapax depressed, cervical suture and post frontal crest well marked, the crest interrupted.
Front nearly straight ; protogastric region nearl}^ smooth ; epibranchial tooth small, directed inward, lateral portions of carapax with transverse ruga?
as in mau}^ Grapsi, the margin of the anterolateral portion obscurely crenulate.
Chelipeds subequal ; the outer surface of meros and carpus with squamose rugae, the rugae on the hands indistinct.
Carpal joints of the first three pairs of ambulator}^ feet with the sides cristate ; dactjdi pointed.
Ceylon.
Length 26 mm., breadth 32 mm.
This species is nearest T. denticulata, but will be readily identified from that species by the more crenulated margin between the orbit and the epibranchial tooth, and by the rugae on the lateral portions of the carapax.
Acanthocyclus gayi Edwards and Lucas.
The type of this species is in the museum of the Academ3^ 38 [1880.
DESCRIPTION OF A F(ETAL WALRUS.
BY HARRISON ALLEN, M.D.
The Academy is the iiossessor of a foetal walrus, which was presented by Dr.
I. I. Hays, and brought by him from the Arctic region of eastern North America.
I have thought that a figure with measurements of this rare, if not unique, specimen would be of value.
The specimen is straight, or nearly so, and it is by this simple test distinguished from other embrj^os of Carnivora.
There is neither flexure of the head upon the trunk, or the trunk upon itself.
The limbs are folded close to the trunk, this feature being most pronounced in the inferior pair, which are inclined upward upon the ventral surface of the body, and carry between them the rudimentar}' tail.
The median margin of the first toe of the anterior extremity bears a small, rounded membranous lobe, or lappet.
The muzzle exhibits the future position of the vibrissas by six rows of minute papillae.
The muzzle projects slightly beyond the line of the mouth.
The position of the future nostrils is seen by two slightly convergent slits.
The vent is a semicircular slit-like opening upon the lateral and posterior surfaces of a rounded nipple-shaped organ, which is probably the future penis or clitoris.
The eye is closed, rather prominent, and presents a palpel^ral fissure, which is directed obliquely upward and forward.
The auricle is represented by a membranous fold laid close to the head.
The slit-like opening defining its position lies 3^'" behind the e^-e, and extends slightly downwards and forwards.
The auricle extends in advance of this slit to the distance of 1'", where it ends in a minute elevation.
A pro])c can be readily inserted in the slit, and can be passed forward.
The color of the specimen is a dull wliite or waxy.
No trace of hair is anywhere visible.
Lengtli of specimen.
1" 9'".
Length of head, 9".
Width of body at widest part, I".
Length of anterior margin of anterior extremity, 4^"'.
Length of posterior margin of anterior extremity, 2'".
Length of anterior margin of posterior extremity, 4"'.
Length of posterior margin of posterior extremity, A'" Distance between vent and navel, 1^'".
ON THE NUDIBRANCHIATE GASTEROPOD MOLLUSCA OF THE NORTH
