A REVISION OF THE TERTIARY SPECIES OF ARCA OF THE EASTERN AND SOUTHERN UNITED STATES.
BY ANGELO HEILPRIN.
In the following enumeration I have reduced all the species to the single genus Area, the various modifications of form and ornamentation not appearing to me to be either sufficiently well marked, or of suflflcient importance, to constitute points for generic subdivision.
The Area gigantea Sind A. onochela are forms which would fall in the subgenus Cucullaea.
The names in parentheses are those under which the species are indicated in the "Smithsonian Check Lists " of 1864 and 1866; they are repeated here merely to facilitate comparisons with those lists, and in no way represent the views of the author on the subject of generic relationship.
Eocene.
A. aspera Conr.
(Barbatia; Calliarca) Jacksonian.
Miss.
Proc.
A. N, S., vii, p. 258, as Navicula.
A. cucuUoides Conr.
(Cucullaroa).
Ala. Tert.
Foss,, 1st ed,, p. 37.
A. gigantea Conr.
(Latiarca).
• Md.
J.
A. N. S., vi, p. 227. ?
A. lima Conr.
Jacksonian.
Tex.
J.
A, N. S., 2d ser., p. 125, as Byssoarca.
A.
(Byssoarca) Misaissippiensis Conr, J.
A. N. S., 2d ser., p. 125 (young).
Cibota Missiasippiensis Gabb.
J.
A. N. S., iv, 2d ser., p. 387.
I am somewhat doubtful as to the correct determination of his species by Gabb.
A. onochela Rogers (Latiarca), Va. Trans, Am, Phil, Soc, 1839, p, 372, as CumlloBa.
Latiarca idonea Conr.
Proc.
A, N. S,, 1872, p, 53 (no locality).
This species appears to be very closely related to, if not identical with the Cueullsea crassatina of Lamarck, from the lower Soissonnais sands of the Paris basin, and possibly also from the British Bognor rock, A protraota Rogers (Ana''ara).
Va. Trans.
Am, Phil.
Soc, new ser,, v, p. 332.
I have seen no specimen of this species, and therefore rely solely upon the description and figure as given by Rogers ; I am inclined to doubt its validity.
A. rhomboidella Lea.
(Anomalocardia).
Ala' "Contributions to Geology," p. 74.
A. Bogersi Heilpr.
V;i .
Area (Cucullcea) transversa Rogers.
Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc, 1839, p. 373.
Specific name transversa, preoccupied by Say.
I have seen no specimen of this species, and judging from the figures illustrative of Rogers' description it appears as though it may prove to be only a variety of A. onochela.
Oligocene.
A. lima Conr.
Miss.
J.
A. N. S., i, 2d ser., p. 125, as Byssoarea.
A.
{Byssoarea) Mississippiensis Conr.
(young).
J.
A. N. S., i, 2d ser., p. 125.
This species is most closely related to the A. rudis Desh., an Eocene, Oligocene and Miocene (?)
fossil of western and southern Europe ; it differs from the recent A. Helhingii Brug.
(= A. harhata L.
?
), of which the A. rudis is stated by Deshayes to be possibly only a variety, in the strong carination of the posterior slope.
A. Mississippiensis Conr.
Miss.
J.
A. N. S., i, 2d ser., p. 125.
A. sabprotracta Heilpr.
Mis?.
Conrad, J.
A. N. S., i, 2d ser., p. 126, as Byssoarea protracta ; specific name preoccupied by Rogers, Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc, new ser., v, p. 332.
Miocene.
A. arata Say (Scapharca).
Md.
J.
A. N. 8., iv, p. 137.
Conr., Mioc.
Foss., p. 58.
This species is enumerated on the authority of Sa}^ and Conrad ; I have seen no specimens of it, and am doubtful whether it is not a form subsequently described under a new name by Conrad.
It seems to have been closely related either to A. limula or A. Carolinensis.
A. brevidesma Conr.
N. Car.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 62, (Not enumerated in the " Smithsonian Check List " of 1864.)
A. buccula Conr.
N. Car.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 60, (Not enumerated in the " Smithsonian Check List " of 1864.)
A. caelata Conr.
(IJarbatin).
N. Car.
Mioc.
Foss , p. 61.
A. callipleura Conr.
(Scapha'ca).
Md.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 54.
A. Carolinensis Conr.
(Noetia).
N. Car.
Proc.
A. N. S., 1863, p. 290, as A. ponderosa var.
Carolinensis.
This species differs from the recent A. jDonderoaa (Say) of the Atlantic coast in having a comparatively longer hinge margin, a much more elongated posterior slope, and the umbones less prominently incurved.
A. oentenaria Say (Striarca).
Va. ; Md.
; N. Car.
J.
A. N. S., iv, p. 138.
Conrad, Mioc.
Foss., p. 55.
Emmons, Geol.
N.
Car., 1858, p. 284.
This species \Qvy closely resembles both in outline and general ornamentation the recent A. solida (Brod.
and Swby.
), but it lacks the posterior carination of that species, and the ribs are much less distinctly beaded.
A idonea Conr.
(Scapharca).
Md.
; N. Car.
Tert.
Fossils, 2d ed., p. 16.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 55.
Emmons, Geol.
N.
Car., p. 285.
A, stilicidium?
* Conr.
Tert.
Foss., 2d ed., p. 15.
* This species is stated by Conrad (Mioc.
Foss., p. 55) to be the young of A. idonea ; I have not seen sufficient specimens of the former to determine this point with positiveness, but the variation scarcely appears to be of specific value.
Both species are recorded in the "Smithsonian Check List" for 1864.
The A. idonea greatl}^ resembles the A. incongrua of Say, a recent species from the southern Atlantic coasts of the United States, from which, however, it can be readily distinguished by several well-defined characters.
In A. idonea the anterior ribs are narrower than the interspaces, whereas, in A. incongrua (where the ribs are much more prominently transversely barred) the reverse is very decidedly the case.
Again, in A. idonea the hinge area is marked with several " diamond-shaped " longitudinal impressions, while in A. incongrua it is transversely striated.
The shell in the recent species is also much more prominently inequivalve.
A. incile Say (Anadara).
Va. ; N. Car.
J.
A. N. S., iv, p. 139.
Conrad, Mioc.
Foss., p. 56.
Emmons, Geol.
N.
Car., 1858, p. 284.
A. lienosa Say (Scnpharca).
N. Car.
American Conchology, PI.
36, fig.
1.
Emmons, Geol.
N.
Car., p, 384.
This species appears to be undistiuguishable from tlie recent A. Floridana Conr., the specific name of wliich will consequently have to be replaced b}^ that of Say's species, which has priorit}'.
A. limula Conr.
(Noetia).
Va. : X.
Car.
Tert.
Foss., 2d ed., p. 15 ; Mioc.
Foss., p. 60.
A. Marylandicus Conr.
(Barbatia).
Md.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 54, as Byssoarca.
A. plioatura Conr.
(Scapharca).
N. Car.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 61.
A. improcera Conr.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 60 (young).
A. lirieolata Conr.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 61.
A.
(equicostat.a * Conr.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 60.
* I have seen no authenticated specimens of this last, but feel satisfied that it is no other than tlie A. lineolata, with the description of which it thoroughly agrees.
A specimen of A. lineolata, so marked by Conrad, is the one from which the figure of A. mquicostata in Mioc.
Foss.
^Pl.
31, fig.
6) has been taken.
The A. plicatura (I have retained the name as best illustrative of the specific character of the fossil) differs principally from the recent A. transversa of Say in being a less capacious shell, and in having the posterior slope much less distinctly angulated or carinated.
The young shells of both species appear to be undistiuguishable from each other, and although there are sufficiently well-marked characters separating the full grown, I have but little hesitation in believing that the coast shell of the present day (which appears also as a post-Pliocene fossil) is only a derivative from the fossil form.
The A. plicatura recalls the A. diluvii, from the European Miocene deposits.
A. propatula Conr.
(Barbatia).
Va, Proc.
A. N. S., i, p. 323 ; Mioc.
Foss., p. 61. ?
Area hians Tuomey and Holmes.
Plioc.
Foss., p. 34.
The figure of this species in the " Pleiocene Fossils," very closel}' resembles the type specimen of Conrad's A. propatula^ and I have but very little doubt (although I have not seen an authenticated specimen of A. hians) tliat the two species are in fact identical, despite the supposed distinctions pointed out by Tuouiey and Holmes.
A. soalaris Conr.
(Scapharca) N. Car.
; Va. Proc.
A. N. S., i, p. 324 ; Mioc.
Foss., p. 59.
A. subrostata Cinr.
(Scapharcn), Md.
Proc.
A. N. S., i, p. 30.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 58.
A. tenuicardo Conr.
Am.
Journ.
of Conchology, v, p. 39.
A. subsinuata Conr.
(Scapbarca).
N. Car.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 62.
A. transversa Say (Scapbarca).
Va.; N. Car J.
A, N. S., ii, p. 269.
Conrad, Foss.
Shells Tert.
Form., p. 15; Emmons, Geol.
of North Carolina, 1858, p. 285.
I have but little doubt that the species here described is one of tlic various forms of A. plicatura.
A iriquetra Conr.
(Scapbarca), Md.
Proc.
A. N. S., i, p. 305.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 59.
= A. staminea?
Say, "American Conchology," p. 36, fig.
2.
(In Say's description the anterior extremity of the shell is described as the posterior, and vice versa).
Somewhat resembles the recent A. rhombea (Born).
Pliocene.
A. caelata Conr.
(Barbatia).
S. Car.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 61.
Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 36.
A. centenaria Say (Striarca).
S. Car.
J.
A. N. S., iv, p. 138.
Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 37.
.A.
incile Say (Anadara).
S. Car.
J. A.N.
S., iv, p. 139.
Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 35.
A. incongrua Say (Scapbarca).
S. Car.
J. A.N.
S., ii, p. 268.
Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 45.
A. pexata S 'y ( Argina).
S. Car.
J.
A. N. S., ii, p. 268.
Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 46.
A. soalaris Conr.
(Scapharca).
S. Car.
Proc.
A. N. S., i, p. 324.
Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 43.
A. lienosa Say (Scapbarca).
S. Car.
American Conchology, PI.
36, fig.
1.
Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 40.
A. plicatura Conr.
(Scapharca).
S. Car.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 61.
A. improcera (young) Conr.
; Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 41.
► 1 A. propatula Conr.
(Barbatia).
S. Car.
Proc.
A. N. S., i, p. 323.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 61.
Area hians, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc.
Foss., p. 34, See note under A. propatula (Miocene).
A. rustica Tuomey and Holmes (Scapharca).
S. Car.
Mioc.
Foss., p. 39.
I have seen no specimen of this species, and can therefore not pronounce upon its validity.
The fragment illustrated in the " Pleiocene Fossils " scarcely admits of recognition.
A. trigintinaria Conr.
(Anadara).
S. Car.
Proc.
A. N. S., 1862, p. 289, as Anomalocardia.
Area Americana^ A. Garolinensis, A. incongrua, A. lienosa A. pexata, A. ponderosa, and A. transversa occur in the postPliocene deposits ; A. ccdata is also reported from the South Carolina deposits of that age by F. S. Holmes, 454 proceedings of the academy of [1881.
November 1, 1881.
The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in tlie chair.
Thirty-four persons present.
Color in Autumn Leaves.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to an excursion to the Salt Marshes of New Jersey, organized by a member of the Academ}'^, Mr. Isaac C. Martindale, and generously seconded by the Camden and Atlantic Railroad Company, which furnished a special train of twelve cars for the company, with the privilege of stopping along the road at interesting botanical points.
This gave unusual opportunity to examine the vegetation of the Salt Marshes, which, at this season of the jghy presented a scene of colored beaut}^ unequaled perhaps in the whole world.
Mr. Meehan remarked that the vegetation which for the most part made up this flora, was either precisely the same as those which entered into the flora of similar localities in western Europe, or else of species so closely allied that onl}'^ critical examination would show the distinction.
The plant which gave the greatest brilliancy, chiefly on account of its numerical proportions, was Salicornia herbacea, the same plant which abounds along European shores.
To the rich ros}^ red of this species Salicornia mucronata (of Bigelow, S. Virginica of most authors) added a rosy brown.
Although this species is American there are forms of S. herbacea on the English coast, which approach it.
The third species is S. amhigua of Michaux, a perennial species, and the analogue of the British S. radicans.
This one never changes its bright green color till severe frost destroys it.
The lively green very much enlivens the brilliancy of the orange, red and brown in the other marsh plants.
The species precisely the same with those of England which gave color to the marshes besides these Salicornias were Salsola Kali^ Suseda maritima, Atrijylex 2)atula, Polygonum maritinum, Spartina stricta^ Spartina juncea, and Ammophila arenaria — the three last grasses which add much by their light browns to the richness of the whole.
Statice Limoniuni, by its faded blue-gray tint, gave a peculiar element to the color.
Aster fiexuosus.^ closely related to Aster Tripolium of European marshes furnished a tint of purple-green.
So far as could be observed of the many other species of plants which might be collected, these were the only ones giving character to the beautifully colored picture the marshes presented at this time.
The most interesting inquiiy here presents itself — Why should plants common in the main to both continents, color so much more brightly in America than in Europe?
We are reminded that what we see here in these marsh plants, does not hold good with close allies in other sj^ecies.
Among trees and shrubs there are some peculiar to each country, but closely allied, in which all the American allies color, while the European rarely do.
He named on the American side, Betula populifolia^ Fraxinus sambucifolia, Quercus alba^ Crataegus cordata^ Ulmus Americana, Alnus serridata, Castanea Americana^ as against Betula alba, Fraxinus excelsior, Quercus Robur, Crataegus oxyacantha, Ulmus campestris, Alnus glutinosa and Castanea vesca.
The whole American line had autumn coloring, of which the parallel European line was wholl}^ destitute.
These trees did not lose this characteristic by removal to the other continent.
In America there were many of the European species five or ten generations from seed, and yet these last genei'ations showed no more disposition to embrace the color characteristics of their American cousins, than did the first progenitor brought from abroad.
We were so accustomed to associate our bright clear autumn skies with the color of our autumn foliage, that facts like these stagger us.
Wh}' should several generations of these European trees resist our climatal influences ?
But we have to remember that the coloi*ing of fruits and foliage is not wholl}the result of chemical power ; what for want of a better name we know as vital power, claims a share.
Some apples have color on the sunny side, while the I'osy cheek never appears on those of the same variet}' hidden b^^ the foliage, and in these cases ib is self-evident sunlight is a cause of color.
Yet if we pluck such a variety from the tree, and place it in the sunlight, it will not color, so that we see here that there must be a connection with the living principle in the tree to enable the solar ra3^s to act.
Yet it requires a relaxation of the leaf's hold on life to bring out these colors.
At any time during the summer, a maturing leaf on an American tree exhibits bright color — yet it a djnug leaf half-colored, be plucked from the parent stem, there is no further change in the tint.
Mau}^ leaves pass through grades, as green, light yellow, orange, brown, to scarlet.
If they are gathered at yellow or brown, the3remain 3^ellow or brown, and so on all through these stages.
Coloring therefore, could not whollj'^ be considered chemically, for though deca}^, Avhieh we take to be a chemical action, is going on during the coloring stage, complete separation from the living tree at once stops the process.
If we consider these two facts together, and then some other known natural laws, we may form some reasonable hypothesis.
There is, for instance, the principle of heredity, so ably insisted on b}^ Mr. Darwin, in connection with all living things.
A force once applied to an object, exerts an influence after the power has been removed.
A Avheel runs round, after the hand which turns it is taken away, and a change in a plant brought about by any circumstance will continue in connection with that plant some generations after the circumstances have ceased to exist.
That this is so has been proved by Naudin with hybrid, or perhaps we should say crossed, lettuces, and in other ways.
Supposing then these closely allied species to have been originally of one parentage, how did the power in one case to change to bright color, or in the other to resist the tendency to color, originate ?
If by chemical power alone, it would occur at once, as a piece of white wood is at once browned by fire, but with the vital principle opposed to this chemically destructive principle, it would take more time to accomplish this change; and the change, once made, would again require more time to again alter the fixed condition.
This is essentiall}^ the foundation of the law of heredit}^, and under its operation we could not reasonably look for a change in the coloring power of these European trees although light were an active agent, under even more than five or ten inherited generations.
At any rate we have in these salt-marsh plants the evidence that the plants of one country, in that country colorless, can be made to take the most brilliant colors when growing in ours.
That these plants had one primarj^ origin is certain, though the ancestry ma}' have been separated b}^ thousands of years.
We know that plants introduced at once do not change at once — hei-edity forbids it.
We may assume therefore that it was only after some generations on the American coast, under the influence perhaps of American light, that these European plants showed their American colors.
We can see in these annual plants, with a new generation every year, the results in numerous generations, as we cannot see in the slower reproducing tree.
Mr. Meehan thought that though we could not say we had yet reached an unchallengeable solution of the cause of autumn color in American foliage, considerations like these brought us nearer to the end.
November 8.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
On Movements and Paralysis in the Leaves of Rohinia.
— Mr, Thomas Meehan said that an inquiry of Prof. Sargent for a trunk of Rohinia viscosa for the National Forestry Census, had led him to look closely into the history of Rohinia in general, with some interesting results.
Though our text-books gave " Virginia and Southwards " as the native location of the tree, no one seems to have collected it of late years.
Indeed herbarium specimens generally seemed to be from cultivated plants, and he could find nowhere direct evidence that it had ever been found wild by any botanist since its original discovery by Wm.
Bartram, as we learn from his " Travels," and Michaux, as recorded by Ventenat in his " Plants of the Garden of Cels," towards the end of the last century.
In northeastern Pennsylvania and contiguous parts of New Jersey he had seen it the past season, in a number of places in gardens, and in most cases it was stated that the plants had originally been obtained from almost inaccessible places on the high hills of that part of the country.
The fact that in these remote places trees from the distant nurseries are seldom obtained, together with the fact that the plant is not now nor probably has been for many years cultivated in American nurseries, makes it possible that the reports are true, and the plant may be found in the spurs of the" higher Allegheny range.
The highly viscose character of this species is interesting.
The excretory glands are low and broad, with a crater-like mouth, from which the sticky matter flows, and soon covers the stem as with a thick coat of varnish.
The viscid strength was such that in some instances the mere contact with a lead-pencil was sufficient to draw a branch towards the person pulling it.
So man}^ plants with viscid secretions have insects found adhering to the sticky matter, that it has been shrewdly suspected the secretion in such cases is a design for entrapping insects, from which the plant perhaps obtains a better supply of nitrogen than in the ordinary manner through the atmosphere.
In the case of this clamm}^ locust no insect was found adhering, though it would seem probable that some few, b}' blind accident, at least, ought to have been found there.
For what purpose in the economy of the plant this secretion is formed, cannot be conjectured.
From this view of individual benefit alone to the plant, or to the race, the secretion seemed an enormous waste of nutritive power.
This waste seemed even more conspicuous in the inflorescence.
It was too early to judge of the amount of seed the plants would produce ; but many flowers had fallen, leaving no ovarium behind in a single instance.
There were no indications that a solitary seed-vessel would result from all the flowers which had expanded np to that time ; and if any seed perfected, they would have to be from a few of the later flowers.
In any event, the amount of waste material in the barren flowers was enormous.
Here it was remembered that a belief widely prevails which regards flowers and insects as having been interadapted to each other.
It is believed not only that flowers are often to be crossfertilized by insects before they can perfect seed, but that special insects are adapted to certain plants, which in the absence of these special insects remained barren.
An ally of this clammy Robinia, Robinia hispida, has been under culture in America and Europe for a great many years ; but the speaker said he had never seen nor knew of any one who had seen a single seed-vessel from any garden plant.
He had come to believe it probable that some special insect, adapted to the pollinization of this plant, existed in the native place of growth of this species, but which insect had not followed the plant in its artificial distribution over the earth.
This season he had found the plant, for the first time in his botanical explorations, on the top of Lookout Mountain in Tennessee; but there, as under cultivation, he failed to see a single seed-vessel.
He had been asked since, by a distinguished Belgian scientific gentleman, whether he noted any plants among the others which indicated a possibility of being recent seedlings.
It had not occurred to him to look especially for these ; but they w^ould in all probability have been noticed if they had been present.
He said it was not to be inferred that because neither lie nor others had found seed, the plant never produced them.
Experience with many other plants showed that they might be barren for years, and then become suddenly fertile.
It was more than probable that long in the past these species were seminally fertile, perhaps capable of self-fertilization, and that the infertility of the flowers is a modern imbecility, which, as indicated in his Detroit paper before the American Association for the Ad vancement of Science, is the general concomitant of a species which has almost run its race.
That these two species rarely produced seeds in modern times might be inferred from the fact, that though both were very fertile in suckers, they were certainly limited to very few locations.
If with the power of producing seed to any considerable extent, they would soon spread over wide areas.
If they had been deprived of the power of producing seed in very far away ages, by the power of suckering alone they would have been more widespread than they are.
There seems to be no other logical conclusion than that the plants once seeded freely ; but that this power must have been long lost, to account for the comparative limited areas to which the species are now confined.
Perhaps the most interesting new facts noted are those connected with the motion of the leaves in the two species named, as well as in Rohinia jjseudacacia, though the most strongly marked in Rohinia hispida.
There is a diurnal as well as a nocturnal motion, each in a separate direction.
At a few hours before sundown, each pair of pinna?
are perfectly horizontal.
The entire leaf is perfectly flat.
With sundown the leaflets begin to droop, till, by dark, tliey are perfectly ])endent, the under surface of each leaflet almost touching the under surface of the leaflet opposite to it.
With the advent of morning, the leaflets arise ; and soon after sunrise, the whole leaf is flat, as just before sundown, but they continue to rise, till, by noon, the opposite leaflets have met above the common petiole, almost touching each other by their upper surfaces at midda}-, as they nearl}^ touch by their lower surfaces \>y night.
In other words, instead of traveling ninety degrees, as do other plants the leaves of which "sleep "at night, these leaflets make a daily circuit of one hundred and eighty degrees.
Besides these novel facts, Mr. Meehan noticed what he could not but regard as a case of paralysis.
About the middle of September, he noticed a sucker from one of his plants, which had finished its growth for tlie season after having made about a dozen nodes.
While at midday the leaflets were erect, three leaves had all their leaflets drooping as at night.
How long they may have been in this condition before being noticed is not known, but they continued in that " sleeping " condition till this date (November 7), the others having gone through their motions dail}^ till now.
During the last few days, however, tlie thermometer having once been nearl}^ down to freezing point, only the two or three upper pinnules on the leaves have retained the power to move.
The paralyzed leaves were in every respect as health}^ looking as the others, but they were, all three, somewhat smaller.
If these had been all together at the lower or upper end of the branch, the peculiarity might have been referred to some cause connected with maturity ; but the first paralyzed leaf was the third from the top, the next the fifth, and the other the sixth ; that is to say, there were leaves with perfect motile functions above and below these, as well as one among the three.
Though for the six weeks, at least, they had lost the power of motion, the color and general healthy appearance of the leaves were precisely the same as the others.
There was no difference whatever except in the length of the common petiole and size of the leaves.
They were about three-fourths the ordinary size.
The upward movement of the pinnules in this species is confined to those exposed to the sunlight ; those shaded by even their own foliage have not the power.
Mr. Meehan had previoush' called the attention of the Academy to the fact that a large number of plants draw the upper surface of the leaf together in bright light, as illustrations of which he mentioned now : Halesia tetraptera^ Cornus JiojHda, Co7'nus mas and Magnolia acuminata.
November 15.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-one persons present.
November 22.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
A paper entitled " On a foetal Kangaroo and its Membranes," by Henry C. Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication.
The death of the Rev.
Z. M. Humphrey, a correspondent, was announced.
November 29.
Dr. R. S. Kenderdine in the chair.
Thirty-one persons present.
The special business of the meeting being the nomination of officers, councillors and members of the Finance Committee, a letter from Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger was read, declining to be a candidate for re-election to the office of President, whereupon a committee, consisting of Messrs. Isaac C. Martindale, S. R. Roberts and J. H. Redfield, was appointed to prepare a suitable expression of the Academy's appreciation of Dr. Ruschenberger's services to the society.
December 6.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan, Yiee-President, in the chair.
Thirty-six persons present.
The genus Carterella vs. Spongiophaga Pottsi.
— Mr. Edward PoTTS referred to a paper (On Spongiophaga Pottsi n.
sp., Ann.
and Mag.
of Nat.
Hist., Nov., 1881) by H. J. Carter, F. R. S., etc., in which that eminent scientist gives an interpretation, differing from his own, of the statosphere tendrils which form the characteristic feature of the new genus of fresh-water sponges to which Mr. Carter's name had been attached in recognition of his very distinguished services.
He wished to consider the subject entirely apart from its personal relation to themselves; and only as it concerned the stability of a genus, in which, as he claimed, for the first time in the history of fresh-water sponges, these tendrils had been noticed as distinctive features.
He then, at some length, gave his reasons why we should not accept Mr. Carter's theory of the parasitic nature of these tendrils or filaments ; saying, that of the two points in the paper most likely to impress a student who had not seen specimens of the genus referred to, or one unfamiliar with the general subject, the first was founded upon certain appearances represented in figure 2 of Mr. Carter's plate.
This figure shows an " axial canal " tlu'ough the centre of the filament, widening into the " tubular prolongation from the process of the chitinous coat " of the statosphere and representing the supposable digestive tract of the animal parasite.
As after repeated and very careful examination of numerous specimens, both in a fresh condition and after being subjected to different methods of preparation, he had failed entirely to meet ■with an instance showing similar appearances, he referred specimens of all three species of the genus to Prof. Jos.
Leid}^, whose fame as an accurate observer is world-wide ; to Mr. Jno.
A. Ryder, and to Prof. Kellicott and Mr. Henry Mills of Buffalo, the discoverers of one of the above species.
The efforts of these gentlemen were equally unsuccessful, their opinion being well expressed in Prof. Leidy's words, " In my mind there can be no question as to the tendrils being part of the structure of the statoblast, and their parasitic nature would never have occurred to me."
" The tendrils are homogeneous extensions of the inner capsule of the statoblast and I see no trace of the appearance to which you refer in Carter's figure 2."
A paragraph from the letter of Prof. Kellicott makes a further point.
These processes " are not found on the statoblasts of any other species in the Niagara River ; I have examined hundreds of the statoblasts of Carterella tubisperma, and have not found one without said tube.
I brought some of these, having wintered in the river, to my room last May ; after a few days, there was sponge growth ; so this form if a parasite did not destroy the life, etc."
The second point made by Mr. Carter was that the species marked G. tuhisj^erma from Buffalo, was identical, as shown by its spiculation, with one marked Heteroraeyenia repens from Lehigh Gap, Pa. That one of these identical species should exhibit the tubular prolongation and accompanying tendrils, while the other did not, was considered presumptive evidence that the former was affected in some abnormal way.
To this Mr. Potts answered, that while there was unquestionably much similarity in shape of the birotulate spicules of the two sponges, covering the " seed bodies " in the ordinary fashion as a second or outer coat, the Lehigh Gap species alone exhibited the second class of long birotulates, interspersed with the others, which had induced him to place it in the genus Heteromeyenia.
For this reason he believed the species were not identical, and this argument fails.
In continuation he reasoned that it should not be considered a matter of surprise that the statospheres of some genei-a pertaining to the family of fresh-water sponges, should present tentative features of this character.
In a paper published so long ago as 1859, Mr. Carter called attention to the resemblance in appearance and function between the statoblasts of the Polyzoa and the so-called " seed bodies " of Spongilla.
The parallelism is rendered more complete when we observe that in those forms of Polyzoa possessing a comparatively rigid octocyst, the statoblasts are circular or lenticular with smooth margins.
Some of these are no doubt washed out from the tubular body from time to time during the winter, to extend the species to other places ; while enough are retained b}^ it to renew the growth in the original locality.
On the other hand, where the body mass is simply gelatinous, as in Pectinatella, Cristatella, etc., decaying away and releasing the statoblasts on the first approach of winter, these are provided Avith either a single row or a more complicated series of marginal tentacular hooks, by wliich they become matted together, entangled with roots, stems, etc., or held to rough places on planks or stones.
The same relation to the pei-manency of their skeleton structure we find existing amongst these genera and species of fresh-water sponges.
The statosplieres of nearly all species are provided with some arrangement for protection and retention.
These vary greatly in kind and degree, inversely according to the protection afforded them by the surrounding skeleton.
Perhaps the lowest in the series in this regard is Meyenia Leidyi.
This is a thin encrusting sponge ; the skeleton spiculje stout and firmly matted together ; maintaining the position and form of the mass throughout the year.
The statosplieres are formed in the autumn in the lowest parts of the sponge, within special capsules formed by interlacing spiculai.
It is hardly possible these should wash away, and accordingly we find no means provided peculiar to themselves for detaining them.
Their armor consists of a closely laid series of birotulate spiculse with entire margins, excellent as a shield but hopelessl}^ useless as a means of retention.
On the other hand no apparent means of diffusion are provided, and as a consequence the species seems to be extremely local ; none having been noticed except in the stream where the first specimen was gathered, and within a few yards of the probable spot.
Spongilla fragiliH of Leidy,when seen during the summer-time, nearly resembles in form the above-mentioned species ; its skeleton structure, however, is much more fragile and is frequently detached and washed awa}', leaving a uniform series of statoblasts standing side by side, with no special coating of spicules for each, as in most other species, but grouped and held together by a common coating of cellular or granular matter, covered by and imbedding a great number of cylindrical spined spicules.
A variety of this is often observed (whether it differs specifically in other respects he could not be certain) in which the statospheres are segregated into groups of four or more, spherically enclosed in a similar coating, thus appearing like one large seed.
While the statoblasts of the former arrangement retain their positions during the winter and germinate there in the spring, it may be that this is a character assumed for diftusive propagation.
In Spongilla lacustris and similar branching sponges, the apparently conflicting ends of retention and diffusion are attained in a different way.
The " seed " are formed in the interstices of both the sessile and the branching portions.
In the former they are retained during the winter, partially by the agency of recurved spines upon the acerates projecting from the seed coat; while the fragile branches soon break off and float their contained statospheres to distant parts.
The massive sessile character of many sponges, repeated through various forms of Spongilla and Meyenia^ partially' protects their statospheres from the accidents of the winter season, and when that protection fails them, the raj'S of the hirotnlate spicules of the latter and the curved acerates of the former, come in play to retain a sufficient number until the time of germination in the spring.
Three species of American sponges have been grouped under the generic name Heterovieyenia^ characterized by the presence of a second form of birotulate spicules interspersed amongst the more familiar series.
These are about double the length of the former and are terminated by long recurved hooks.
The framework of two of these species is altogether filmy and fugitive ; the statospheres are not held within the interspaces of the skeleton or retained in an}other waj', and are therefore dependent upon the above hooks for their attachment to proper bases for future growth.
Completing the series of retentive agencies we find the statospheres of the three species of the disputed genus Carterella provided, in addition to their birotulate spicules, with long curling or twisting tendrils, extensions, as we have heard, of the tough chitinous coat.
These are required to meet the emergency occasioned by the looseness of their skeleton texture, from which the sarcode flesh dying early washes awa}', most of the spicules soon following in the winter floods.
The eggs are thus left to the protection of the above tendrils which lap them together, bind them to the remaining spicules or the roots of water weeds or shore plants ; or, assuming the role of the hair the plasterer uses, bind the deposited silt about them and both to the stones, where they await the^ppointed time for a new growth.
This function is very clearly shown in the collection in Mr. Potts' possession, and the resemblance in material structure of these tendrils to that of the specialized hooks of the forms of Polyzoa referred to, is very striking.
He hopes therefore, that as both analogy and observed facts seem to indicate the correctness of his position, Mr. Carter will be willing to accept the compliment intended and which is so well deserved.
December 1.3.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair.
Twenty -three persons present.
The death of Ami Boue, a correspondent, was announced.
Piloholns crystallinns.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that this small fungus had proved this season to be an expensive annoyance to florists engaged in winter forcing flowers.
Rose31 growers especiall}' had found it to interfere seriously with their profits.
The injury was caused b}^ the projection of the sporangia which covered the flowers and leaves of the roses as if profusely dusted with black pepper.
Tlie flowex's were almost unsaleable as the first impression was that the black dots were Aphides.
Mr, J.
B. Ellis, of Newfield, N. J., to whom he was indebted for the identification of the species, had informed him that it was somewhat rare in that vicinity.
In the greenhouses referred to they were in immense profusion, the conditions of growth being probably more favorable.
Mr. Meehan described the growth of the plant and the behavior of the asci in the generation and expulsion of the sporangia, which corroborated the facts detailed in the memoir of Eugene Coemans, published in 18.59 in the Bulletin of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Brussels.
M. Coemans found the plant on half-dried cow-droppings, in August, and in these greenhouse cases it was also growing in half-i'otten cowmanure used for enriching the soil.
Mr. Ellis reports that it is sometimes found on other manures, and so may be less rare than supposed.
The projection of the sporangia has been noted by European observers, and originated Fore's name Pilobolus, literally the hator cap-thrower.
The sporangia appear as small black caps on the top of the cr3^stal-like asci, and are expelled with great force.
By careful measurements they were found to be thrown when the direction was perpendicular, to a height of four feet.
Coemans does not seem satisfied that the exact process has been made clear by which this remarkable projection is eflfected.
It has been supposed that carbonic acid gas is generated, which, distending the cysts, causes them at length to burst at the thinnest part, which is the apex, and the sporangia are then blown out by the gas, as would be a cork from a bottle of champagne.
Again Coemans finds a double membrane to the asci, and believes that by the agency of light the inner membrane contracts in a different manner to the outer, and that the projection is the result of this peculiar contraction.
Mr. Meehan observed that the sporangia were expelled from the interior of the asci before they were finally discharged, and that they were always projected in a direct line from the centre, which would hardly be the case if a mere explosion of gas directed the movement.
One large rose-grower had found, that sprinkling the surface of the earth under the rose plants with about the eighth of an inch of dry earth, effectually allayed the projectile annoyance.
December 20.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-five persons present.
The deaths of Edw.
Taylor and Dr. Isaac I. Haj^es, members, were announced.
The Committee, appointed Nov. 29tb, to prepare an expression of the Academy's appreciation of Dr. Ruschenberger's services to the society, presented the following report which, together with the resolutions proposed, was unanimously adopted : — To the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : Tour Committee, appointed November 29th, 1881, to prepare and report at a future meeting, an expression of the Academj^'s appreciation of the services of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, who declines a re-election to the office of President, respectfully reports : Dr. W. S, W. Ruschenberger was elected a member of the Academy of I^atural Sciences of Philadelphia, May, 1832, and became its President, December, 1869, succeeding Dr. Isaac Hays.
He has been re-elected at each succeeding annual election, hence he has occupied this position for an unbroken period of twelve years, which, with one exception, is the longest term of service of any President of the Academy.
When the project for the erection of a new building was first proposed, Dr. Ruschenberger manifested so much interest therein, that when on the 14th of November, 1865, a committee was appointed, " to devise methods for advancing the prosperity and.
efficiency of the Academy hy the erection of a building of a size suitable to contain the collections," he was by unanimous consent chosen its Chairman.
He was likewise Chairman of the Committee of Fortv, appointed December 26th, 1865, for the purpose of obtaining the funds necessary for the erection of a new building, .
and also was, and still is.
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Building Fund, organized January 11th, 1867.
From the inception of the enterprise to its consummation in the occupancy of the new building by the Academy in 18*76, Dr. Ruschenberger constantly gave to it his best energies, and to him.
more than to any other man the Academy owes the commodious building which it now occupies.
There were times when many members of the Committee doubted and even despaired of the completion of their service, but in the darkest hours Dr. Ruschenberger never faltered either in faith or works, but with his quiet persistent force, pushed forward the enterprise, and sustained the courage of his associates.
His untiring interest in the welfare of the Academy, led him personally to supervise the contracts for building, and to inspect the progress of the work almost daily.
He was thus able to save thousands of dollars to the Trustees, and to see the present building completed at a cost greatly within the original estimate.
Those onl}who were associated with him in this the great achievement of his life, can rightly value the courage, patience, devotion, indomitable perseverance and ceaseless activity displayed by him throughout the entire period.
As a presiding officer, both at the meetings of the Academy and in the Council, his extreme punctuality, dignity of manner, unfailing courtesy and accurate acquaintance with parliamentary usage leading to prompt decisions, which seldom or never failed to command support, have increased in no small degree the debt of gratitude due him by the institution which he has served so faithfully and well.
Of his services to the scientific world this is not the time nor the occasion to speak in detail, but suffice it to say, they are such as have been long and widely recognized.
In view of the foregoing recital of facts, we deem it everj^ way fitting that the Academy should suitably express and place upon record, its grateful sense of the long and faithful services of its retiring President, and we accordingly propose the following resolutions for its adoption : Resolved., That the thanks of this Academy be, and they are hereby tendered to Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger for the eminent services he has rendered both before and since he has held its honored position of President.
Resolved^ That this report, and these resolutions be entered in full upon the minutes, and published in the Proceedings, and that a copy thereof suitably engrossed, attested by the Vice-Presidents and Secretaries of the Academy be presented to him.
Isaac C. Martindale, John H. Redfield, S. Raymond Roberts, Philadelphia, Dec. 20th, 1881.
Committee.
Varying Influence of Heat on Flotver-buds and Leaf-buds.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to specimens of Cratsegus^ sent by Mr. Case, of Indiana, on which the sender remarked that the buds were larger through the winter on alternate years — and that the plants flowered freely in the seasons corresponding with those following the large buds.
Mr. Meehan said, that though it must be within the knowledge of most observers that on the recurrence of spring, flower-buds were much larger than leaf-buds in the same species, no use had been made of this fact in physiological teaching so far as he knew.
At the fall of the leaf, as any one might see in the peach, cherry, apple, pear, maple, willows, poplars, alders and numerous others, the flower-buds could scarcely, if at all, be discerned from leaf-buds ; but b}spring the flowerbuds had increased to double their autumn size, while the leaf-buds remained exactl}^ the same.
Whenever the thermometer was in ever so slight a degree above the freezing point, the flower-bud increased in size during the winter.
The leaf-bud required a higher temperature to excite it.
This difference in excitability ought to be of value in explaining some biological points.
December 2t.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty-six persons present.
The death of Henry Morris, a member, was announced.
The following was ordered to be published : — ON A F(ETAL KANGAROO AND ITS MEMBRANES.
BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D.
Since the publication, nearly fifty years ago, of Prof. Owen's invaluable paper ^ " On the Generation of the Marsupial Animals," in which the fcetal Kangaroo and membranes were first described, no further contribution has been made to our knowledge of this very important subject.
Indeed some naturalists at the present day seem indisposed to accept Prof. Owen's statement that there is no connection in the Kangaroo between the foetal membrane and the uterus, or, in other words, that no placenta is developed ; and that, therefore, the division of the mammalia into non-placental and placental is not a valid one.
Even though the present communication should not contain anything particularl}^ new, I trust, however, that it will not be received without interest, if for no other reason than that it comfirms essentially Prof. Owen's descriptions.
One would have naturally supposed that, during the past half century, among all the Kangaroos killed in Australia and opened in various zoological gardens, at least one fatal Kangaroo would have been found.
As a matter of fact, however, this does not appear to have been the case, or, at least, if such was found, no record was made of it.
Impressed with this fact, I never failed to examine the generative apparatus in the female Kangaroos wbich died from time to time in the Philadelphia Zoological Garden, with the hope that I might obtain an embryo.
In September, 1879, I was successful, finding the specimen which forms the subject of the present communication, and to which I incidentally alluded in a previous communication to the Academy.^ The female Kangaroo, in which I found the embr^^o, was a fine example of the Maci^opus giganteus, and had taken the male about fourteen days before its death, which was caused by injuries inflicted upon itself, due to a fright incident to the boxing the animal for shipment.
The embryo, PL XX, was, therefore, not more than fourteen days old.
On opening the uterus of the left side, which was considerably swollen, the embryo Kangaroo was seen through the 1 Philos.
Transact., 1834.
'^ Placenta of the Elephant, Journal of Acad., vol.
viii, p. 5. transparent cliorion.
The chorion, which was thickened in places, insinuated itself between folds, into which the lining membrane of the uterus was thrown.
The chorion was, however, entirely free from villi or villous processes of any kind, and was perfectly separable in its entire extent from the uterine surface.
Indeed it was readily turned out of the uterus intact.
On opening the chorion, the embr3'0 Kangaroo was seen inclosed in a very delicate amnion, which was easily lacerated.
What at once struck me, on opening the chorion, was the large size of the umbilical vesicle and the undeveloped condition of the allantois, which, though small, was undoubtedly present, consisting of a pear-shaped vesicle or diverticulum from the posterior part of the intestine.
The umbilical vesicle adhered to the chorion by that part of its surface most remote from the umbilicus.
The line of demarkation between chorion and umbilical vesicle being indicated by a circular blood-vessel.
When in the fresh condition, the umbilical vesicle was seen to be highly vascular.
The blood-vessels that ramified over its surface consisted of two veins and an artery.
The veins began as one vessel from the under surface of the liver, which diverged at the umbilicus and united again on the vimbilical vesicle as a terminal or marginal vein, i. e., the circular vein just referred to, and which indicated the line of contact of the umbilical vesicle with the chorion.
The third vessel was an artery, and through the mesenteric could be traced to the aorta.
These vessels evidently correspond to the omphalo-mesenteric or vitelHiie veins and arteries of other vertebrate embr^^os as seen, for example, in the embryo chick.
The disposition of the umbilical vesicle, with reference to the chorion (its large size and vascularity), reminded me also very much of the rabbit or rodent type of development.
While, as we have just seen, the umbilical vesicle was in contact with the chorion, the rudimentary allantois, on the contrar}^ hung freely by its pedicle or urachus in the space between the amnion, the stem of the umbilical vesicle, and the chorion.
When the allantois was first examined, there could be distinctly seen three very fine vessels, two of which appeared to come from the aorta and corresponded therefore to the umbilical or hypogastric arteries of the placental mammals, while the remaining vessel I considered to represent the umbilical vein of the same.
The small size of the allantois and the rudimentary condition of its blood-vessels taken in connection with the length of the embryo and the short time that the latter remains in tlie uterus, makes it impossible for me to think that in the Kangaroo a placenta is ever developed.
I vise the word placenta in the sense ordinarily accepted, meaning a structure which consists of the interlacing of the allantoic blood vessels with those of the decidua serotina of the uterus, that is, of that part of the hypertrophied mucous membrane of the uterus in contact with the ovum.
Further, that while the umbilical vessel is fused through part of this surface with the chorion, the chorion is only in contact with the inner surface of the uterus, not adhering to it in an}' way.
The disposition of these membranes in the Kangaroo embryo is therefore difterent from the so-called placenta of certain Sharks, which consists in the interlacing of the omphalomesenteric blood-vessels with those of the uterus.
This structure in the Sharks, though called a placenta, is not homologous with the mammalian placenta, this consisting, as we have seen, of the allantoic vessels and those of the uterus.
The Kangaroo cannot be said, therefore, to have a placenta in either sense in which that word is used.
The small size of the embryo Kangaroo at birth, would lead me to suppose that it drew its nourishment from the umbilical vesicle like the reptile or bird, rather than from the uterine walls, as in the mammal.
If the uterus does contribute to the nourishment of the foital Kangaroo, such nutriment must osmose through the omphalo-mesenteric vessels.
The contact of the chorion with the uterus, however, is of a very adventitous character.
The embryo Kangaroo itself measured six-eighths of an inch in length from the mouth to the root of the tail.
The latter was one-eighth of an inch long.
The mouth was open, and the tongue, though large, was not protruded.
The palpebral folds were not developed.
There was no sign of an auricle.
Four branchial clefts could be distinguished.
The anterior extremities were well developed, but the digits had not appeared.
The posterior extremities, were represented onlj' by small buds, not very apparent except with a lens.
Indications of the ribs were distinctly visible.
The membranous spinal cord could be seen ; the elements of the vertebrae being as yet ununited.
A penis was visible just in front of the anus.
On the supposition that the theory of evolution is true, one would naturally expect to find forms intermediate in their structure and \ development between the reptiles and birds on the one hand and the placental mammalia on the other.
As is well known, in the structure of its skeleton and generative apparatus, the Ornithorynchus resembles ver}' closel}^ the reptile and bird, while, as we have just seen, the foetal membranes of the Kangaroo recall the corresponding parts in the reptilian-bird type and foreshadow those of the placental mammal.
If the parts in question have been truthfully described and correctly interpreted as partly bridging over the gap between the non-placental and placental vertebrates, the}' supply exactl}'^ what the theory of evolution demands, and fui-nish, therefore, one more proof of the truth of that doctrine.
The following reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee :
