NOTES ON THE SPECIFIC NAMES OF CERTAIN NORTH AMERICAN FISHES.
BY CARL H. EIGENMANN.
1.
In the Proceedings U. S. Nat.
Mus.
1885 p. 72.
Dr. Jordan says.
The yellow Perch must .
.
stand apparently as Perca hitea.
The name Centropomus luteus Rafinesque Precis des Decouvertes Somiologiques 1814 is apparently prior to that of Bodianus flaveseens Mitchill 1815.
Prof. Mitchill also described this species in his Report in Part on the Fishes of New York p. 18 Jan. 1 1814 under the name Morone flavescens.
This name seems to be still earlier than that of Rafinesque and the species may stand as Perca flavescens Mitchill.
2.
The name Morone interi'upta Gill seems to be preoccupied by the Perca mitchilli var.
interrupta Mitchill Trans Lit.
 Phil.
Soc.
New York i 415 1815 which is also a species belonging to the same genus Morone.
As this species has no synonyms it may receive the new name of Morone mississippiensis Jordan  Eigenmann nom.
sp.
nov. 3.
In the transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society New York i pp.
457 and 458 1815 Mitchill gives an account of a small herring under the name of New York Shadine Clupea radina The description reads An elegant species with a small smutty spot behind the gillcover but with neither spots nor stripes on its back or sides.
Mouth wide and toothless.
Tongue small.
Back delicately variegated with green and blue.
Lateral line straight sides silvery white considerably above that line and below it quite to the belly.
The white reflects vividly green red or other splendid hues.
Head rather elongated.
Lower jaw projecting.
Scales very easily deciduous.
Form neat taper and slender.
Gills rise into the throat on each side of the root of the tongue.
Eyes pale and large.
Tail deeply forked.
On account of the even connection of the false ribs the belly is not at all serrated but quite smooth.
A semitransparent space in front of the eyes from side to side.
Rays B.
7 P. 16 V. 9 D. 18 A.
15 C.
19.
That is Moro7ie Hneaia Bloch.
We are unable to separate generically Morone from Roccus and the name Morone has a few lines priority.
J.
 E. Leaving out of consifleration the first paragraph this is a fair description of Etrimieus teres DeKay.
There is no evident spot behind the gill covers in alcoholic specimens and the mouth has teeth.
There is a narrow dark bar extending on the sides along the posterior margin of the opercle to its angle.
This may be the smutty spot referred to by Mitchill.
The teeth are not evident to the naked eye in specimens 3 inches long and may easily have been overlooked by Mitchill.
The specimen described by DeKay under the name of Alosa sadina is evidently Brevoortia tyrannus and not the species of Mitchill.
DeKay fearing that sadina would get confounded with sardina took the liberty to substitute notata for the former.
DeKaj thinks the description of Mitchill to be insufficient but the character the belly is not at all serrated separates this species from all other New York clupeoides.
The species may stand as Etrumeus sadina Mitchill.
PL V.   .
y.
 k' H I   V E v V V v.
   s''X'ip''F  t7V vv Dr. C. .
rkIaiirioy rlul.
IT POTIS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES.
PL.
VI I I W Dr. C. AV.
.kluniio.v del.
POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES.
PL.
Yll.
H S. Q. Foulke.
del.
P0TT5 ON FRESH WATER SPONGES.
PL.
VIII IE S. G. Pnuike ili'l.
POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES.
PI.
IX.
S. .
Foulku lUl. POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES.
S. G. Foulke ii1.
POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES.
PL.
XI.
 d. m A S. G. Foulke del.
.
POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES.
PL.
XII.
P Y. S. r.
Foulkc.
del.
POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES.
1887.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
297 September 6.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
September 13.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
September 20.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
September 27.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Eight persons present.
The death of Joseph Patterson a member was announced.
The following was ordered to be printed  20 ON THE HISTOLOGY OF SALPA.
BY DR. CHAS.
8.
DOLLEY.
In connection with a study of budding in Salpa by Prof. W. K. Brooks I have undertaken to review the histology of Salpa.
Thirty years ago Prof. P. Leuckart  in commencing a study of the same animal made the remark Seit fiinfzig Jahren sind diese Thiere uuzahlige Male von Zoologen und Anatomen beobachtet worden and doch ist das Studium derselben immer noch versprechend und lohnend fiir den Forscher which is still true and though it may at first thought seem presumptuous to expect any thing new from an animal which has been repeatedly investigated during the last eighty years it was deemed best to go over the ground according to the improved methods of modern histological research.
The work was mostly done in the Biological Laboratory of Johns Hopkins University and completed in the autumn of 1884 in the Laboratory of the Zoological Institute in Leipzig.
The specimens used collected by the United States Fish Commission in Vineyard Sound Avere preserved in alcohol and in chromic or picric acids.
The socalled Tunica externa' or cuticle of Saljm is a secretion product of the ectodermal cells of the ''Tunica interna.
It is a hyaline homogeneous elastic material showing at times especially in young specimens a faintly laminated appearance.
This lamination is absent in the adult forms where it is destitute of any appearance of strvicture the clear field being broken only by minute granules and occasional small stellate or spindleshaped celllike bodies scattered irregularly through it.
These latter are so far as I have been able to observe destitute of nuclei and have no connection with one another.
They are probably the remains of cells which have wandered from the ectoderm into' the newly formed cuticular secretion.
Like the outer mantle of DoUolum and the Haus of Appendiclaria it seems probable that this cuticle is from time to time shed and renewed.
I assume this from having found in my collection several empty outer mantles and also numerous specimens in which 1 Rudolf Leuckart  Zoologische Untersuchungen.
 Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Tunicaten.
Salpen und verwandte.
Giessen 1S54.
 Basilius Uljanin  Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel.
Monographie X. DoUolum.
p. 14.
Herausgegeben von der Zoologischen Station zu Neapel 1884. the outer mantle was unusually thiu and soft as if newly formed while the exuviffi were stiff and elastic.
The Inner Mantle presents an ectodermal and an entodermal cellular layer which are separated by a hyaline connective basis substance of varying thickness in which lie buried the viscera and the muscular bands and through Avhich a network of blood sinuses burrow in all directions.
The ectoderm consists of a single layer of pavement epithelium made up of polygonal usually hexagonal cells Plate xiii figs.
1 2 in which the protoplasm with its oval often slightly bowed nucleus occupies the central portion  the remainder of the cell appearing empty and transparent and the boundaries between neighboring cells being very poorly defined.
These cells lie directly upon the basis substance of the inner mantle and are on their outer surftice in contact with the cuticle or outer mantle.
I have nowhere in the ectoderm of Salpa been able to find such large javement cells containing a protoplasmic reticulum extending out from a centre plasmamass as Uljanin and Grobben described in the larvae of Doliolum but in several young specimens I find a layer of epithelial cells lining the cavity containing the elseoblast which present an appearance corresponding in almost every particular to those described by IJljanin.
The plasma of these cells is mostly collected into a central mass from which go out irocesses anastamosing freely and connecting it with a thin less granular layer at the periphery.
The nuclei are oval in form and sometimes lie to one side of the central mass.
Not having living specimens at hand I was unable to ascertain anything in regard to the granular streaming in the protoplasmic network or the retraction of processes and the extension of others by the central mass as described by Uljauin.
These cells lining the elteoblastic cavity are several times larger than the cells of the ectoderm covering the body but they are similar in structure and are probably larger because younger since Uljanin found several undergoing fission.
At the two openings of the body branchial and cloacal the ectoderm passes over into the entoderm or layer of cells lining the inner mantle  these corresjiond almost exactly with those of the ectoderm except that the cells are usually from one third to one half smaller.
They vary both in 1 1. c. p. 13.
2 C. Giobben  Doliolum und sein Generations wechsel Arbeiten ties zo olog.
Institutes zu Wien.
Bd.
IV II ft. 2. breadth and thickness in various parts of the body as do the ectodermal cells.
The entodermal cells are raised up into two ciliated bands upon the lateral walls of the branchial chamber and form a hooplike elevation about its anterior end which being inclined backward as it passes toward the dorsal surface connects the anterior ends of the endostyle and the gill.
Between the ectoderm and entoderm is a transparent structureless material of the same appearance as that composing the outer material but lacking the elasticity of the latter on account of its being pierced and hollowed out by the numerous blood channels and sinuses.
Lyiug embedded in this porous matrix are the 3fuscles  these are composed of from six to twelve broad flat striated muscular fibres arranged in bundles with their broad surfaces in contact and their edges presenting towards the interior and exterior of the body.
figs.
3 4 5.
The fibres are made up of several large muscle cells which have become fused together each fibre shomng a large number of oval nuclei clear bladderlike with relatively large nucleoli.
The fibres have a longitudinally striated appearance caused by the granular contents being arranged in rows rejresenting the ultimate fibrillae.
The transverse striation is not always to be seen but there is usually present especially when the bundles are viewed on the surface an irregular transverse marking of the entire bundle due to certain portions of the cells taking a deeper staining fig.
5.
The Gill hypopharyngeal band Huxley is a cylindrical tube in the living animal but in preserved specimens more or less collapsed.
Its walls are a continuation of the entoderm and it is filled with the same spongy basis material that separates the ectoderm and entoderm and like this it is perforated by an irregular series of blood sinuses  not by a single grand sinus as described by Huxley fig.
6 7..
The cells constituting the walls of the gill are in the main identical with those of the entoderm and remain unchanged along the upper and lower surfaces of the organ but on the sides they become altered into two longitudinal series of ciliated ribs e h fig.
6..
These form cushionlike elevations and are made up of three layers of spindleshaped cells the outer layer of which bear rather long stiff cilia.
The ciliabearing cells are arranged in regular rows upon the cush1 Huxley F. H.  On the Anatomy of Salpa and Pyrosoma.
Royal Society Transactions 1851 p. 570. ion and the number constituting a transverse row in one of the cushions has been given by Leuckart as from four to twelve  but I find a much wider variation than this in the same and in different individuals fig.
7..
The number of ciliated ribs or cushions also varies greatly running from one hundred to two hundred.
At the anterior end of the gill two of the upper series of cushions are continued out upon the wall of the branchial sac and form the semicircular ciliated bands which run obliquely around the anterior extremity of the endostyle.
The Endostyle of Salpa runcinatafiisiformis fig.
8 differs considerably from that which has been so thoroughly described by Fol' in various Tunicates among others Salpa maxima S. bicaudata S. pinnata S. democratica.
Running along each side of the endostyle on the floor of the branchial cavity are the two ciliated border bands described by Fol fig.
8 ebb..
In some specimens but one of these bands appears to be ciliated causing a lack of symmetry as was early pointed out by H. Miiller and recently by Seeliger.
They consist of twelve or more thick cylindrical cells bearing numerous cilia.
These bands are separated from the endostyle proper by a space of the ordinary pavement epithelium of the branchial sac.
The inner Fol upper Uljanin glandular cushion is usually in section made up of thirteen or fourteen large columnar glandular cells poorly defined from one another fig.
8 igc.
Those lying deepest in the groove are the longest and thickest giving the cushion a wedgeshape the apex forming the upper edge of the endostyle.
The cells of this cushion have a granular contents and present in the lower third large bladderlike nuclei with relatively large and striking nucleoli  the upper portion of each cell is coarsely granular and it is difficult to say where the cell ends and the secreted matter begins.
Usually the two cells lying at the lower end of the cushion show a longitudinal striation composed of dark bacilluslike spots.
According to Seeliger these cells contain the pigment particles probably the coarse granules of my preserved specimens which gives to the endostyle its blue color.
There is no middle intermediary band present in the endostyle of Salpa runcinatafusifarmis the inner glandular cushion resting directly upon the middle glandular cushion igc.
and mgc.
fig.
8..
This is also the case with the 1 1. c. p. 36.
2 Fo.
Hermann  Ueher die Schleimdruse oder den Endortyl der Tunicaten.
Morphologiscbes Jahrbuch.
Vol.
1.
1876. specimens described and figured by Seeliger.
The middle glandular cusliiou consists of eleven long pearshaped cells arranged with their large ends towards without giving a section of the cushion a kidneyshape.
The contents of these cells have none of the coarsely granular look of those of the inner glandular cushion but present a faint longitudinal striation they bear very clear round nuclei in their basal portions in the centre of which are prominent round nucleoli.
Below the middle glandular cushion is the socalled outer intermediary band fig.
8 oib.
but this is again different from any described by Fol.
Instead of consisting of simple pavement cells it is here made up of three layers of spindleshaped cells with long rodlike nuclei  the inner layer of cells bearing fine short cilia.
The outer intermediary band as figured by Seeliger differs from those of Fol and myself in being composed of nonciliated columnar cells.
The outer glandular cushion ogc.
fig.
8 is composed of eleven cells very like those of the middle glandular cushion and arranged after the same manner pearshaed with large ends towards without.
They present however several nucleoli in each nucleus instead of but one.
The two halves of this cushion forming together the floor of the endostyle present their largest curves in an exactly opposite manner to that figured by Fol but similar to that of Seeliger.
The basal jiortions of the largest cells of the two halves lie together in place of being turned away froin one another.
In none of my specimens have I been able to find the exceedingly long cilia nor the two small oval cells described by Fol as bearing them and as lying between the right and left halves of the outer glandular cushion.
The Alimentary canal begins with a trumpetshaped pharynx ph fig.
9 the everted edges of which pass over into the entodermal lining of the inner mantel.
Its celb are rather long cylindrical and hyaline with small clear nuclei in the basal portions  they bear coarse lancetshaped cilia.
The character of the cells remain the same throughout the oesophagus oe fig.
9 which is considerably contracted in diameter but upon reaching that portion of the canal which corresponds to the stomach of DoUolum although there is no special dilatation of the canal they lose their cilia and assume a somewhat more cuboidal character appearing at times to be piled loosely upon one another in several layers.
Just here where the ciliated epithelium of the oesophagus changes into that of the stomach the alimentary canal is joined by two coecal appendages one on each side lapiing over the stomach and intestine fig.
10 cor..
The cells and their arrangement in these coeca are of an entirely different character from those of the oesophagus stomach or intestine.
A transverse section shows a series of very jirominent coarsely granular pyramidal cells containing in the lower third a round nucleus and several usually three nucleoli.
They are separated from one another by lighter finely granular spaces which when viewed from the surface of the coecum fig.
11.
jresent a reticulated appearance.
Whether this is due to the presence of small polygonal cells separating and surrounding the large glandular cells or whether it is a mesh work of threads formed from the secretion of these cells and connecting them as in the livers of some molluscs I can not be positive I can not however detect any nuclei in the celllike spaces.
Huxley described but one coecal appendage in Salpa and called it the stomach into which according to his description opened the duct from the network of anastamosing tubules which ramify over the visceral nucleus.
In the form which I have examined there are present two coecal appendages fig.
10 as single sections plainly show and as I have learned positively by a model of the visceral nucleus constructed according to Born's PlattenModillir method. Seeliger in his paper referred to further on also mentions and figures but one coecum.
I can only account for the disagreement between the observations of Huxley and Seeliger on the one hand and my own on the other by the supposition that the number of coeca varies in different species.
I shall take advantage of the earliest opportunity however to examine the visceral nuclei of all species of Salpse.
My observation agrees with those recently made by Seeliger in confirming H. Miiller's statement that no food is ever found in these coecal appendages but their lumen is often filled with a structureless product of secretion.
Opening as they do at the anterior end of the stomach they are evidently of some material use in digestion and from the arrangement and structure of their walls I am of the opinion that they function as hepatic organs as was first proposed il.
c. p. 571.
 Aichiv.
f. niikroscop.
Anat.
xxii p. 684 1883.
Amer.
Naturalist April 1884. by H. Miiller from the peculiar contents of the glandular cells as observed by him.
As set forth at length in a former communication to this Academy' I was unable in any of my specimens to find in the oesophagus or stomach of Salpa the large plasmodium described by Koratnefi.
 I have serial sections from many specimens showing the entire curve of the alimentary canal from the mouth to the rectum in which the lumen throughout is perfectly free from any organized protoplasmic mass.
Other preparations show the food laden mucus passing from the branchial cavity through the pharynx oesophagus and stomach.
Before reaching the stomach on account of its containing much protoplasmic material which has not yet been acted upon by the digestive juices this mixture of food and mucus takes staining very well  but after reaching the stomach it gradually refuses to stain and in the intestine consists of a mass of colorless debris owing to the organic materials having been removed by digestion.
Sections cut diagonally across the oesophagus sometimes appear as though the lumen of the tube was almost obliterated except a narrow slit on one side this is not actually the case as sections cut longitudinally fig.
9.
or at right angles prove.
My observations opposed to the presence of an intercellular or parenchymatous digestion in Salpa referred to above have since been confirmed by Oswald Seeliger in his interesting and valuable paper on the budding of Salpa in which he refers to this subject as follows  Ich muss demgegeniiber nun darauf aufmerksam machen dass Korotneff im Magen von Salpa africana Verhiiltnisse angetroffen hat die darauf schliessen lassen dass in denselben thatsiichlich Nahrung hineingelangt und daselbst verdaut oder resorbirt wird.
Ich habe leider Koratneff''s Angaben iiber die freien Magenzellen und die parenchymatose Erniihrung der Tunikaten nicht an verschiedenen Objekten nachstudiren konnen bei Salpa democratica aber fand ich sie nicht zutreffeud.
Audi von anderer Seite Dolley 1 Heinricli MuUer Ueber die anatoniische Veischiedenheit der zwei Formen bei den Salpen.
Ztschr.
f. wiss.
Zool. Bd.
IV.
1853 p. 330.
 Some observations oposed to the presence of a parenchymatous or intracellular digestion in Salpa.
April 15th 1884 vid.
Proceedings Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia.
Zool.
Anz.
1884 p. 705.
 Dr. A. Koratneff.
Ueber der Knospung der Anchinia.
in Ztschr.
f. wiss.
Zool.
Bd.
40.
Hft.
1 1884 Feb. 19.
 Oswald Seeliger.
Die Knospung der Salpen Jenaiscbe Zeitschr.
fur Naturwissenschaft Bd.
19 page 631. hat man Korotneff 's AufFassung nicht zustimmen konnen und es ware in der That eine nochmalige Nachpriifung von dessen Mittheilungen wiinschenswerth bevor man das eigenthiimliche Verhalten der Tuuikaten beim physiologischen Processe der Erniihrung zu der Schlussfolgerung der ich aber aus anderen Griiudeu volkommen beipflichte verwendet deswegeu haben wir in unserem Falle Ursache noch an der hohen genetischen Stellung zu zweifeln die den Tunikaten zugeschrieben ist.
At the beginning of the intestine proper the cells composing the walls resume the appearance of those of the oesophagus and again cilia show themselves.
The presence of cilia for moving on the intestinal contents is necessary on account of the lack of any musculature in connection with the visceral nucleus.
Theie is present under all the cells of this tract a delicate basement membrane in which nuclei may occasionally be seen.
Spreading over the visceral nucleus is a network of delicate tubes the darmumspinnende Driise of Seeliger and others.
These consist of an extremely tliin basement membrane bearing cuboidal cells of a pale transparent character in which there was no nucleus visible.
In no place could I detect cilia in these tubules as described by Chandeleon for Perophora but I did find numerous large concretionlike masses of a darkbrown color.
Seeliger believing these glandular tubules to be hepatic in function might perhaps consider the above darkbrown masses as biliary secretion.
The disadvantage of having no living specimens to examine is apparent when I say I can not find the plasma offshoots from the stomach cells into the lumen of the same nor the glandular cells containing yellow drops seen by Seeliger in the stomach walls of living specimens.
Filling up the cavity produced by the doubling of the intestine and by the two coecal appendages lie the Testes which consists of a number of delicate tubes in which a basement membrane is scarcely apparent and a layer of clear round cells containing pearshaped nuclei form the walls.
I could not find the spindleshaped nucleated cells forming a sort of connective tissue about the gland as described by Leuckart. The Heart lies in a pericardium which appears to be but a sac  Th.
Chandeleon  Recherches sur une annexer du tube digestif des Tuniciers in Bull de I'Acad.
Roy.
de Belgique.
44me Aniiee.
2e Ser.
T. XXXIX p. 911 187..
 i.e.
p 36. formed from the entodermal layer of the inner mantle the cells of both being similar in every respect.
The heart itself is composed of a structureless basement membrane supporting a layer of striated fusiform muscle cells.
These fibre cells lie upon their flat sides with their long axes at right angles with the long axis of the heart.
They have a single oval nucleus and present a delicate transverse striation fig.
12..
They are much smaller than the fibres of the trunk muscles.
The Elctoblast statoblast of Vogt.
situated on the central side of the body near the cloacal opening consists in hardened specimens of a mass of large irregularly polygonal bodies showing no nuclei and varying greatly in size.
They are opaque and have a coarsely granular appearance as if tilled with a sort of yolk material.
They are undoubtedly cells which have been greatly engorged and modified.
In sections they usually drop out to a large extent owing to the removal of the oil and fat by the reagents leaving a reticulum made of the transparent connective material of the inner mantel in a cavity of which or rather on the outer side of which the elseoblast lies  the entire mass being covered with the peculiar large plaster cells previously described.
The function of this body seems still to be undetermined.
In adult specimens it disappears entirely but is present both in solitary and chain Salpce Avhen young.
Vogt held it to be homologous with the placenta Salensky considers that in those Salpce developed from the egg it arises from the same elements out of which the blood corpuscles and muscles are formed amoeboid follicular cells  in the chain Salpce it is developed from the mesoderm.
The Nerve Ganglion or brain presents a nearly spherical mass covered with a delicate membrane which seems continuous with the outer sheath of the nerve trunks.
Upon section it shows an outer layer of apolar ganglion cells only the nuclei of which are to be seen as a rule and a central portion of lighter colored fibrillar punct substance fig.
13 NG..
Resting upon the brain and in fact a continuation both of the central fibrillar core and the external layer of ganglion cells is the Visual Organ of Salpa regarded by Huxley as an auditory organ.
Outside of its nervous central ortion fig.
13 vo is a layer of rather large cylinder cells fig.
13 pc.
containing in their inner halves a 1 Salensky W. Uber die Entwickelungsgeschichte der Salpen ia Zeitschr.
f. wiss.
Zool.
XXVII 1877.
Moiphol.
Jahrb.
Ill p. 591. round nucleus and a quantity of dark pigment  the upper and outer halves being clear and transparent.
In no case did I find the nuclei in the clear outer portion as figured by Seeliger 1. c. pi xi fig.
13.
These pigment cells are in their turn covered with a layer of columnar cells each of which contains a nucleus in its outer end.
This layer .does not seem continuous with the entodermal layer covering the brain and is probably a modified portion of the ectodermal layer of the inner mantel.
1 one or two specimens which I had prepared without ascertaining their specific name I found the eye to be much more flattened than in the figure given here and divided up into several lobes.
From the above description Salpa would seem to possess a sort of comi3ound eye.
Passing out from the central fibrillar portion of the brain are several nerve trunks from eleven to twentyfive pairs which show a clear enveloje with a dark granular axis.
No fibrils are to be seen.
The brain is covered by the entoderm which is however not in direct contact with it at all points.
Below and anterior to the brain the entoderm of the median dorsal surfiice is invaginated to form the Ciliated Sac I'hypophyse.
This structure as seen in other Tunicates has iriven rise to much discussion in regard to its function.
Ussow and Julin'' regard this as a gland Joliet considers it to be olfactory in character.
In Salpa it consists of a simple tube fig.
13 rHy.
closed at the end next the ganglion against which it rests and opening at the other end into the branchial sac.
Its walls are made up of short thick columnar cells carrying heavy cilia.
It however possesses no such peculiarities as the glandular coeca described in Ascidia mammillata.
Lettering of Figures PL XIII.
6s blood sinus.
Br or br branchia.
cb ciliated cushion in gill.
ebb ciliated border band ct cuticle.
coe coecal appendages.
1 Ussow Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Organization des Tunicaten.
Moscow 1876.
' Julin Chas.
 I'Hj'pophyse des Ascidiens in BlUI.
Acad Sc.
de Belgique 3d.
Ser.
T. 1.
P. 2 p. 151.
 Joliet.
M. L.  Sur le developpement du ganglion et du sac cilie dan le burgeon du Pyrosome Compte.
rend. Ac.
Sci.
Paris.
T. 94.
No.
14 p. 988.
ee ectoderm.
eti entoderm.
Hvi heart muscle.
igc inner glandular cushion.
m inner mantle ini intestine.
VHy I'hypophyse.
m. h. muscular bands.
' m muscles fibres.
mgc middle glandular cushion.
inib middle intermediary band.
nf nerve fibre.
ng nerve ganglion.
oe oesophagus.
ogc outer glandular cushion.
oib outer intermediary band.
pc pigment cells.
ph pharynx.
 vo visual organ.
Explanation of Figures PL XIII.
Fig.
1.
Section of inner and outer mantles. 
2.
Surface view of ectoderm  3.
Portions of three muscle fibres from muscular bundle. 
4.
Section through one of the muscular bundles of the trunk showing its position in the inner mantle  5.
Seven muscle fibres as seen from a surface view of one of the bundles. 
6.
Transverse section of the entire gill. 
7.
Longitudinal section through a portion of the gill on the plane of cb.
in fig.
6. 
8.
Showing one half of a transverse section of the endostyle  9.
Longitudinal section through the oesophagus. 
10.
Transverse section of the intestine and the two coecal appendages. 
11.
View of tlie outer surface of a coecal appendage. 
12.
Striated muscular fibre cells composing the wall of the heart. 
13.
Vertical section through brain visual organ and I'hypophyse.
1887.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
309 October 4.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Seventeen persons present A paper entitled The Classification of the PostCretaceous Deposits.
By Angelo Heilprin was presented for publication.
October 11.
The President Dr. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Twentytwo persons present.
A paper entitled Prolonged Life of Invertebrates.
Notes on the Age aud Habits of the American Tarantula.
By Henry C. McCook D. D. was presented for publication.
At the meeting of the Botanical Section held September 12th a paper entitled Contributions to the LifeHistories of Plants.
By Thomas Meehan was recommended for publication.
Fossil bones from Florida Prof Leidy stated that he had recently received for examination from the Geological Survey in Washington two barrels and three boxes of fossil bones from Florida.
Tliey are labelled as having been collected by L. C. Johnson from Mixson's bonebed 10 miles east of Archer Levy Co. Florida.
A note accompanying the collection states that trenches were cut in the bed to the bottom rock from two and a half to six feet deep and that the bones were found distributed abundantly without order through the clay from top to bottom.
The bones especially the larger ones are generally much broken though the original texture is mostly preserved and they exhibit no trace of being rolled or water worn.
The fractures appear to be entirely acciHental or with no evidence of human action.
Some portions of clay in large hollows of several sjecimeus exhibit finely comminuted bones.
The fossils pertain to the same animals previously indicated from the same locality in former communications See the Proceedings 1884 118 188532 18861137.
They consist chiefly of the remains of Rhinoceros proterus Mastodon floridanus and Auchenia major.
Among them are a number of well preserved molars of the Rhinoceros and Mastodon.
Several more characteristic specimens prove that he had formerly committed a blunder in referring the fragment of a tooth to an extinct boar with the name of Eusyodon maximus Proc.
1886 37 which is only part of the lower tusk of the rhinoceros.
A tooth from the same locality sent him by Dr. J. C. Neal of Archer Florida indicates a species of Hlppotherium different from H ingenuum Proc.
1885 33 and also seems sufficiently distinct from the corresponding tootli of the many other species of the genus elsewhere found in America to render it probable it pertains to an undescribed species.
It is an upper molar of an animal approximating the Ass in size and larger than H. ingenuimi.
The triturating surface represented in the accompanying figure exhibits a complexly folded condition of the enamel quite different from that of the lattercompare figure in Proc.
1885 33.
The species may be named Hipjotlierkmi plicatile.
Three lower molar teeth according in size with the upper one were also received    from Dr. Neal.
An astragalus and fragments of several other bones contained in the former collection accord in size with a 1 the teeth of H. jliGatile while an astrag' alus received from Dr. Neal accords insize with the tooth of if.
ingenuutn.
Comparative and other measurements are as follows  H. pllcatile.
H. ingenuum.
Upper molar triturating surface  Breadth fore and aft 20im 19mn.
Breadth transversely ...... 23  17  First lower molar  Breadth fore and aft 25mm Breadth transversely 14  Intermediate lower molar  Breadth fore and aft 22mm Breadth transversely 12  Astragalus Breadth fore and aft 49mm 35mm Breadth transversely behind .
40  29  October 18.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
October 25.
The President Dr. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Twentyfour persons present.
Preliminary note on a new mineral Species from Franklin N. J. Prof. Geo.
A. Koenig called attention to his recent examination of a mineral from the above locality which has not been heretofore known.
This mineral occurs in pale grayish yellow stellate masses somewhat resembling karpholite or pyrophyllite.
It is associated with calcite.
The stellate aggregation is readily friable as it breaks into minute prismatic particles.
Made into an artificial splinter the substance fuses in the oxydizing flame to a black glass.
Heated in a closed tube it yields abundant water at a red heat changing its color to chocolate brown.
The water does not act acid nor corrode glass.
Carefully dissolved in a borax bead the latter remains colorless at first then gradually assumes the characteristic manganese color.
The powder dissolves in hot concentrated hydrochloric acid but does not gelatinize.
The specific gravity determined with 1.4230 gram.
is 2.981.
The analysis gave SiO' 3900 MnO  4212 HO 844 FeO 375 ZnO 286 MgO 383 10000 The determination of iron was lost its quantity is made up by the difference.
Manganese is present as MnO  the peculiar behavior in borax mentioned above and the absence of any evolution of chlorine when dissolved in HCl are proofs of this assertion.
Calcium is only present in traces and was Aveighed with the magnesia.
If we calculate the molecular ratio of the oxyds we obtain MnO WO FeO ZnO MgO  SiO  1  231  065  189  1  2  1.
This is the ratio of an orthosilicate and in fact is the molecule of Tephroite in which a considerable portion of manganese is replaced by water.
That the water must be consideied as basic follows from the fact that none is expelled at 200 C. The low specific gravity is very extraordinary and seems to indicate a polymeric condition of the molecule.
The name Bementite is proposed for this species.
Remarks on Hydra  Prof. Leidy remarked that in our fresh waters there occur two well marked species of hydra the one of a bright green color the other pale brownish or reddish.
He continued these jud'gingfrom descriptions and figures appear to him to be the same as the Eurojiean species H. viridis and H. fusca.
The late Prof L. Agassiz regarded them as different and named them H. gracilis and H. eartiea Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
1850 354.
Familiar as he was with both the European and American animals his opinion might be considered conclusive but the only distinctive character he assigns to each seems not to be correct.
Of our green hydra he observes that unlike the European it has the power of extending its body in a remarkable degree.
Opposed to this view Rosel ill 1755 represents H. vlrldls in the same condition and with the arms in the same proportionately short state Insecten Belustigung Theil 3 Tab.
88 Fig.
4.
In other characters the speaker found our green Hydra to accord with H. vlridls  and further in respect to the sexual organs.
Prof. Allen Thompson describes the latter as producing a single ovary near the middle of the body and two or three spermaries from the body just below the arms Edinburgh Philos.
Jour.
1847 281.
The same condition he had observed in our green hydra as represented in the drawings exliibited.
As regards our brown hydra Agassiz gives as the distinctive character that it has very short arms while the European has long ones.
Ordinarily this appears to be the case but on several occasions the speaker had observed our brown hydra after it had been kept some time in an aquarium where there was comparatively little food elongate its arms extremely attenuated even to a length of three inches.
In this condition it closely resembled in appearance the beautiful figure of H. fusca in figure 1 plate 64. of the Regne Animal of Cuvier.
He had the opportunity of seeing both the green and brown hydra west of the Rocky Mts.
and these he found to accord in character with our eastern forms.
In specimens collected in a lake in the Uinta Mts. Wyoming T. at 10.000 feet elevation the brown hydra at first was brick red with a brighter red head but after keeping it for a week it assumed the pale brown hue as ordinarily observed in the animal nearer home.
The characters of the two American forms as observed by him are as follows  Hydra viridis 
The green hydra.
Animal bright grass green sometimes paler.
Body when moderately elongated cylindroconical tapering towards the caudal end  when contracted oval or spheroid  when greatly extended linear cylindrical.
Head conical.
Arms four to seven commonly six about half the length of the body lineal' capable of extension to about the length of the body or slightly more.
In the sexually mature state  testes hemispherical surmounted by a nippleshaped prominence situated on the sides of the body just below the arms  ovary single projecting from near the middle of the body and containing a single spherical white egg enclosed in a brownish covering.
Animal usuall three or four lines long capable of extension to twice the length or contracting to less than a line.
In ponds and ditches in the vicinity of Philadelphia and other laces though not common.
Observed on one occasion in tlie sexually mature condition late in autumn.
In the individuals observed the sexes were separate  the males with the two testes and the females with a single ovary.
The ovum measured 0375mm in diameter.
In the sexually mature H. viridis observed by Prof A. Thompson individuals were hemaphrodite while in others the sexes were separate.
Hydra fusca 
The browu hydra.
Animal more robust than the former of the same shape ami number of arms but with tlie body less attenuated when extended and with the arms habitually longer in proportion to the body but capable of extension to six times the length of the latter.
Color usually pale brownish or reddish  sometimes deeper sometimes paler.
In ponds and common on the under side of stones in the Schuylkill and Delaware Rivers in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
Not observed in the sexually mature condition.
The color of the aninuil in a measure appears to depend on the nature of the food  and it may become a bright red of variable tint by feeding on similar colored entomostraca or insect larva See Proc.
1880 156.
From pi'olonged abstinence the color fades and the animal becomes almost white.
Craig D. Ritchie was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be published  21 THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE POSTCRETACEOUS DEPOSITS  BY PROF. ANGELO HEILPRIN.
The point of first importance to determine is uliether all the deposits succeeding the Cretaceous jieriod belong to a single major system or as is generally recognized to two distinct systems the Tertiary and Quaternary of geologists.
It will probably be conceded by all geologists that the only rational scheme of chronological classification is that which can be made to be of universal application  in other words a system that applies equally to all countries.
In our present knowledge but one such scheme of broad classification is known that which is based upon the rise and fall of successive faunas.
Granting a nearly equivalent development of lifeforms for the greater portion if not the whole of the earth's surface a condition which can now be satisfactorily demonstrated or at least demonstrated to a variation within narrow limits it will be manifest that we have in this development a true guage of chronological relationship and one that must be fairly exact in its application.
The grouping of systems will then be a mere deduction from the timerecord made to correspond to certain welldefined or roundedoff periods so to speak of faunal development whose existence is made known to us through the dissimilarities of successive faunas.
How much or what amount of dissimilarity is considered sufficient to mark out distinct systems is a matter of little consequence to the geologist but where uniformity of classification is required naturally only equivalent terms or terms of approximately equal value should be used.
The greater number of the major geological systems now recognized are delimited by faunal dissimilitudes of a more or less definite measure which is indicated in the ratio of transgressional forms uniting to the system below and to that above.
The present classification admits in a general Avay for each system a faunal peculiarity measured in its lowest terms by some 35 or 40 per cent and this classification has fairly met the demands of geologists in its application to almost all the entire series of sedimentary rock deposits.
Remarkably enough in the case of the postCretaceous deposits Avhose classification has been effected probably by greater niceties of percentage divisions than that of any other series this meas Amplification of a report prepared by request for the American Committee of the International Con2ress of Geolotrists.
ure has been only loosely or not at all adhered to.
What it might be asked are the claims of the PostPliocene and recent formations to being considered a distinct system 
Viewed in its fannal aspects the question may be very readily disposed of the formations in question have no claim to such recognition.
If the formations from the Eocene to the Pliocene inclusive are justly considered to constitute by virtue of their faunal unity a distinct system the Tertiary then manifestly the postTertiary PostPliocene to recent must be a jiart of the same system since its faunal ties unite it infinitely more closely with the more recent members of the Tertiary than the individual members of the latter are united among themselves.
Thus the Eocene or Oligocene is further removed faunally from the Miocene than the Pleistocene is from the Pliocene  and the same relation holds with the Miocene and Pliocene.
Lyell himself the framer of the now very generally accepted classification of the postCretaceous deposits admits that in the socalled Newer Pliocene deposits of Sicily the percentage of recent molluscan forms rises as high as 90 or even higher consequently reducing the faunal peculiarity to less than 10 per cent.
In the Chillesford beds of Suffolk England the faunal peculiarity is reduced to about 15 per cent and in the NorAvich or FluvioMarine Crag to 16 per cent.
Again the uppermost of the Subapennine deposits of Northern Italy forming part of the Astian series Pliocene proper of .Japellini have been shown by Foresti to hold about 80 percent of living forms reducing therefore the faunal peculiarity in its lowest expression to 20 per cent.
On the other hand the deposits immediately underlying these forming still apart of the true Pliocene series Foresti's horizon III hold barely more than 43 per cent of living forms and are thus strongly individualized by their faunal peculiarity in so far at least as a relationship with the overlying deposits is concerned although the ties with the deposits underlying MioPliocene of CapelliniMessinian of Mayer are much more intimate.
Horizon II of Foresti is characterized by some 39 per cent of living forms and I by nearly 31 per cent  both of these divisions are by many Italian geologists classed with the Miocene which really appears to be their true position contrary stratigraphical evidence notwithstanding.
Seeing how very closely the Pliocene fauna in its highest expression approximates the fauna of the present day et conseq.
the PostPliocene fixuna and the broad latitude of peculiarity allowed it by most geologists it becomes interesting to inquire in how far similar conditions of relationship or divergence obtain among the older Tertiary deposits.
It is well known to geologists that in most regions where Tertiary deposits are developed the faunal relationship existing between the Eocene and Miocene series is a very restricted one  indeed in some regions it would appear that there is scarcely a single species of fossil held in common by the two classes of deposits.
This is very largely the case in France and perhaps more particularly in the Eastern United States Avhere the respective faunas are practically wholly distinct.
It is true that in some regions a careful analysis of the formations now frequently referred to the Oligoeene has shown a number of connecting forms and has brought the two formations in closer relationship with each other but the uniting bond as compared with that which unites the Pliocene with the PostPliocene or the Tertiary with the postTertiary is still very weak.
In the Oligocene Vicksburg deposits of the United States for example it is doubtful if the number of transgressional forms uniting with the Miocene numbers more than six and possibh' not that many out of a total of some 150 species.
These facts being admitted it can scarcely be argued further that with our existing classification as a basis there remains any valid reason for separating as a distinct system the PostPliocene postTertiary series from the Tertiary Pliocene.
It may however still be contended that we allow too much latitude to the Pliocene and that with a proper restriction to boundaries in which the recent faunal element does not exceed 70 or 75 per cent instead of rising to 85 and 90 or more room may be had for a major series with a largely peculiarized fauna.
But even with this limitation the faunal break separating a postTertiary series from the upper member of the Tertiary Pliocene would scarcely be as great and in most cases not nearly so great as that separating the Pliocene from the Miocene or the Miocene or Oligocene from the Eocene.
Apart from the matter of mere numbers as indicating a lack of of peculiarity in the postTertiary fauna it may be urged that there are yet certain elements in it which serve broadly to distinguish it from the faunas immediately preceding and which would intitle it to the claim of a true systemfauna.
Thus as has frequently been claimed we have here the first evidences of man and therefore the expression of a socalled Psychozoic era the remains of a remarkable series of large edentate animals Megathermm Mylodon Megalonyx Gliptodon etc.
foreign to the earlier faunas yet sufficiently abundant as a distinguishing element in the fauna of later date  and finally the elimination of certain faunal features of the period preceding which can be passed over without further notice.
As far as the occurrence of the giant Edentata and of certain other associated animal forms Toxodon Macrauclienia is concerned it may be remarked that by many geologists and paleontologists the beds containing their remains are referred to the Pliocene and not to the PostPliocene period  and we have now the unmistakable evidence of somewhat similar or at least related forms being found in the Miocene and Pliocene deposits of the Western United States.
Nor even if we admit that these remarkable forms are exclusively PostPliocene can it be assumed that they are in themselves sufficient to distinguish a fauna the less so as their remains have only been found in a corajiaratively limited portion of the earth's surface and have yielded no substitutes elsewhere.
The case of man's appearance is equally inadmissible as a factor in the question since in the first place it is now practically certain even if positive proof in this direction is still wanting that he already existed during the close of the Tertiary period and not improbably even at a much earlier date.
Furthermore his advent looked at purely from the zoological standpoint could be no more a distinguishing feature in a fauna than would be the advent of Dryopithecus or Hipjjopotamus.
Nothing can be more illogical than the assumption that because man is of all importance in the faunal element of today judged from the standpoint of our own ca3ricious opinions he is of equal importance when measured by the purely zoological standard.
Eually illogical is the assumption of a Psychozoic age as distinguished from any of the ages preceding.
Having as I believe satisfactorily shown that the PostPliocene series of deposits which include the Pleistocene Glacial and Recent of most geologists cannot be separated as a distinct system from the Tertiary it becomes necessary to find a common name under which all these series of deposits can be included.
The term Kainozoic Cenozoic or Tertiary corresponding to Mesozoic or Secondary and Palaeozoic or Primary might be conveniently retained and its application so enlarged as to embrace both the Tertiary and Quaternary in use at present Quaternary of necessity completely dropping away.
It now remains to determine of what relative values are the major o divisions of the Kainozoic or Tertiary.
It will probably be admitted by most geologists that the divisions preGlacial Pleistocene Glacial and Recent are merely subgroups of a single major formation for which the familiar term PostPliocene might be conveniently retained.
Its value may be accepted as being approximately equivalent to Pliocene Miocene Oligocene or Eocene although the values of these last differ somewhat among themselves.
Indeed it is not a little difficult to determine what precise significance is to be attached to these divisions of the Tertiary whether they are of equivalent value with the generally so considered corresponding terms of the Mesozoic Cretaceous Jurassic etc.
and Paleozoic series Carboniferous Devonian etc or not.
In most geological tables they are accorded this value but it is more than doubtful if they are entitled to it.
Probably but few geologists will deny that the PostPliocene and Pliocene are much more intimately related to one another than are the Devonian and Silurian the Devonian and Carboniferous or the Jurassic and Cretaceous.
And a similar intimate relation holds by comparison between the Eocene and Oligocene.
The PostPliocene and Pliocene again appear in most cases to enjoy a much closer affiliation than exists between the latter and the Miocene and similarly the bond of union uniting the Eocene with the Oligocene is greater than that which holds the latter to the Miocene.
So that Avhile it may be impossible to attach absolute values to the terms or periods marked off in Tertiary chronology it appears to the present writer more in consonance with existing facts and as a stricter parallel to the methods employed in preTertiary terminology to group the entire series into three main sections corresponding to as many periods of geological time as follows  Neogene f PostPliocene.
I Pliocene.
Kainozoic or Tertiary r Metagene Miocene.
EOGENE I Oligocene.
Eocene.
The classification of the Tertiary deposits brought en rapport with the classification of the preTertiaiy series and as based upon the formations of the Atlantic slope of the United States would then be as follows  1887.
319 Pi  H U H o u o N o  Neogene.
PostPliocene Recent.
Glacial.
Pleistocene.
Pliocene.
Floridian.
Metagene.
Miocene.
Carolinian Virginian.
Marylandian.
Eogene.
Oligocene.
Eocene.
Orbitoitic Vicksburg Jacksonian.
Claibornian.
Buhrstone.
EoLignitic.
BS  a z o u w en Bi o J o o lA a Cretaceous.
Chalk.
European.
Gauk.
JJanian.
Senonian.
Turonian.
Cenoraanian.
Albian.
Neocomian Jurassic.
Oolite.
Iias.
c. c. Triassic.
c. On the value of the faunal element in geological chronology.
Some geologists and notably those who profess but little knowledge of paleontology have attempted to make light of the evidence which the zoological record brings to bear upon the classification of rockmasses.
Indeed even at the present time in some of our surveys only a lefthanded assistance is asked by the geologistincharge from the paleontologist with the result known to all who are capable of distinguishing between work that is done and that which still requires to be done.
It is true that in many tracts and in tracts even of wide area the relative sequence of rock formations can frequently be traced without the aid of paleontology and a map more or less perfect constructed on the details thus brought together.
But soooner or later if the comparative study of a region is necessitated reference must be had to the fossil remains which alone serve to the geologist the data of an inftillible chronology.
The absolute succession of equivalent faunas or faunas of a practically identical facies which has been demonstrated for the greater jmrt of the world clearly establishes the claims of the faunal element as the guide propre in the determination of chronology.
It not only serves to fix the relative sequence of formations for any one country but determines absolutely the position in time Avhich these formations occupy in a geological scale constructed for the entire world.
It is however contended and apparently with force that certain physical phenomena associated with the disposition of rockmasses are as clearly consecutive in their occurrence as is the progression of the life series and might hence claim equal importance as chronological determinants of the geological scale.
Thus it is pointed out we have the world over a ihysical break of definite importance between the Paleozoic and Mesozoic series of rocks and a somewhat similar break wanting in some parts between the Mesozoic and Kainozoic  and again minor breaks between the lesser formations.
But how could the equivalence of these breaks be determined were it not for the predetermination of age through the faunal remains 
It might be assumed where a deposit of a definite or special lithological character can be continuously followed such as coal or the chalk of the Cretaceous period that we are furnished with certain distinctive data which here preclude the possibility of mistaking the actual equivalence  that for examle where we recognize the break following the chalk in England we recognize a similar break in France and Belgium and likewise the same for the coal.
But by what method other than the paleontological one could the postCretaceous break be identified or correlated in regions such as the Eastern United States where the true chalk is wanting and where the beds representing it could from lithological character about as well be taken to represent an older member of the series to which they belong as a newer one
The notion held by some geologists that the true determinants of a formation or more properly speaking the true measure of geological time is found rather in the lithological than in the paleontological record can not for a moment stand the test of a logical inquiry.
To submit for example that the matter of continuous sedimentation or the absence or presence of conformability or the existence or nonexistence of a physical lithological break can in any way affect a timerecord based upon the uninterrupted succession of progressive faunas requires for its acceptance facts of a very different character from any that geology has thus far brought forward.
It is true that geologists may have erred in locating or defining their timeperiods or formations and doubtless more accurate research will alter or completely obliterate much that has been done in the way of chronological classification but to maintain as some geologists would lead us to believe that the Cretaceous and Tertiary formations or pei'iods no longer exist as such by virtue of the discovery of a series of intermediate connecting beds  or that for a somewhat similar reason the Oligocene formation has given up its right to existence independently of the Eocene is maintaining a position which no geologist who has examined into the premises will be willing to concede.
We may as well admit that the various periods recognized in human history do not exist because they can be continuously traced without break of any kind  and similarly centuries and years have no existence because they are continuously consecutive.
The geologist should bear in mind that the timeperiods et conseq.
the corresiDOnding formations are artificial constructions based upon equivalent phenomena for the entire world and serve only for the purpose of a universal classification.
The finding of an intermediate formation period in no way obliterates the formations between which it may have been found provided the limits of these formations have been satisfactorily determined  for example the discovery of a connecting series of deposits between the true Cretaceous and Tertiary uniting them by way of continuous sedimentation does not render the entire series CretaceoTertiary but the connecting beds are alone entitled to this designation.
The Cretaceous and Tertiary sections of the series remain as truly Cretaceous and Tertiary in a general scheme of classification as they were before the intermediate beds were discovered.
Manifestly in a complete geological scale whose near realization is by no means im possible all the various formations now recognized will be found united to one another through the intermedium of connecting beds but certainly no geologist will go so far as to urge that for this reason a classification of time based upon some artificial basis of chronology will no longer be necessary or desirable.
It has also recently been objected that a classification based upon percentages of survivals is an absurdity and wholly illogical.
Why illogical it might be asked 
Surely if there has been a general and neaily equivalent faunal succession or development for the world at lai'ge a condition which can be clearly demonstrated then manifestly the ratio of survivals must be a definite measure of this development  and if this is the case it must necessarily prove the safest guide in the delimitation of chronological boundaries.
Were it possible to definitely determine the proportion of survivals or what is practically equivalent to the same thing determine the amount of actual faunal peculiarities by specific determinations made with equal care for all countries we would then have and only then a rational basis for a systematic classification applicable to the whole world.
CONTSIBUTIONS TO THE LIFEHISTOEIES OF PLANTS.
BY THOMAS MEEHAN.
Amplncarpcea monoica. 
Flowers of two kinds those of the upper manyflowered racemes perfect and petaliferous but seldom maturing fruit those near the base of the stem on prostrate branches imperfect but usually fertile.
Thus writes Torrey and Gray and this I think is usual experience.
Mr. Darwin says in Forms of Flowers In three of the genera Leguminosce known to produce cleistogamic flowers namely Vicia Amphicarpcea and Voandesia the cleistogamic flowers are produced on suliterranean stems.
The perfect flowers of Voandesia which is a cultivated jilant are never said to produce fruit but we should remember how often fertility is affected by cultivation.
Chap.
VIII p. 327 Although cleistogamic flowers never fail to yield a large number of seeds yet the plants bearing them usually produce perfect flowers either simultaneously or more commonly at a different period and these are adapted for or admit of crossfertilization ibid p. 340.
I had often gathered the seeds near the ground on plants growing in shaded woods and thickets and supposed I was familiar with it.
In December of 1886 w'alking along the banks of the Wingohoccing creek which runs through my farm I noted quantities of dry legumes on dead vines that had profusely covered masses of blackberry bushes.
I could have gathered pounds of seed.
I had never seen Amphicarpcea in this condition and was so completely off my guard that I was amazed on a package being returned from Prof. Asa Gray marked  AmphicarpKBa monoica.
I decided to watch the behavior of the plants more closely another year.
I now find the petaliferous flowers on these plants abundantly fruitful.
In what may be termed the more vigorous racemes the two lowermost flowers either have no petals or have but a small vexilla projecting a little beyond the calyx.
The next half dozen flowers are perfect in every respect and are fertile.
The succeed324 1887.
Fig.
I.
Fig.
4. ing flowers usually fall without perfecting a legume.
It may be noted tliat the legumes and calyx are difterent in these two instances Fig.
1 shows the petaliferous and Fig.
2 the apetalous forms.
Thus Ave have three forms of legumes on the one plant the hypogeous which is short thick and roundish at the end Fiff.
4 and these two now described.
The apetalous flowers can be scarcely classed as cleistogene for there is certainly no pollen in many of them.
In the few score I examined at this time a few undeveloped stamens could be detected here and there.
In the absence of positive demonstration I should rather regard these as pistillate flowers receiving their pollen from the petaliferous ones.
I do not find the flowers are adapted to crossfertilization except in the monoecious manner indicated.
In the petaliferous cases the flowers are diadelphous one stamen being wholly distinct from the rest.
These are thoroughly united into a tube for very nearly their full length little more than the connective of the anthers being free.
The pistil running up this tube is about the exact length and the stigma is imbedded in the thick mass of stamens' and completely covered by ownpollen.
It is evident that no foreign pollen can possibly reach the stigma.
So tightly held together is the mass of filaments that when the fertilized pistil commences to expand the ovarium bursts out at the base of the column and as it grows draws down through the staminate column the style this giving the stigma another full dose of its ownplleu.
Fig.
8.
It is a remarkable adaptation for self fertilization.
Besides this close coverFiG.
3. iug of the stigma by the stamens and column the keel embraces the stamens so closely that even the tickling of the flower with a pin simulating the action of an insect fails to set them free.
As soon as the ovarium begins to grow and the flowering stage has reached the period illustrated in Fig.
3 the petals fall apart and the pollen is liberated for the wind to carry it elsewhere.
Persistent Avatching failed to note any insects at Avork but numerous blossoms of Impatiens fulva possibly afforded the greater attractioiis at the time of my observations.
The bruised petals of Amphicarpcea showed that at some time during the day or night insects were at work ou the flowers.
The large vigorous blossoms on these plants were of a brilliant purjle.
The plants which I have seen with whitishyellow flowers in other localities grow weaker than these.
They also produce legumes from apetalous flowers on the climbing stems but the locality is not near enough for me to watch to see whether the petaliferous flowers bear freely or not.
Fruiting as these flowers do on the climbing branches at least there are twothirds fall without seeding.
This cannot be from impotency of the pollen or none would seed.
Few leguminose plants even when exposed to crossfertilization perfect more than a small portion of their flowers.
Failure is from too great a draft on the nutritive ' powers of the plant.
So many flowers cannot be properly fed though properly fertilized by pollen.
The remarks of Mr. Darwin on Voandesia are no doubt just changing the word cultivation so as to read we should remember how often fertility is aftected by circumstances.
I have already placed on record that the petaliferous flowers of Viola cucullata rarely produce seed under ordinary circumstances but freely do so when the plant is growing on a dry rockery.
The points I regard as rendered certain by these observations are  1.
That the climbing stems as well as the trailing ones of Amphicarpcea bear apetalous flowers freely.
2.
That these flowers produce a third form of legunie.
3.
That the petaliferous flowers under circumstances favorable to nutrition bear legumes as freely as leguminous plants generally.
4.
That the petaliferous flowers are adapted solely to selffertilization and I think the probability is developed  That the apetalous flowers are often fertilized by pollen from the petaliferous ones  and so far the plant is arranged for as much crossfertilization as other monoecious plants receive.
A contribution to the life history of Cephalanthus occidentalis.
The pistils of Cejohalanthus occidentalis are exserted more than an inch beyond the flowers and as there are usually from one hundred to three hundred flowers in the buttonlike head the mass has a well known trichodic appearance.
I had never been able to see these extending themselves.
The flowers were always either closed or fully expanded with the pistils to their full length.
Satisfied that the opening took place during the night I cut a few on the evening of Aug. 1st.
and placed them in a glass of water in my library and watched their behavior.
The unopened flower at 7 P. M. is very interesting from a small tooth bearing a black gland seemingly situated in the axis between the lobes.
It ia really on the left hand side of each lobe and gives to each division when carefully separated the outline of a mitten where in covering the hand the thumb only is free.
At 8 P. M. the lobes have parted and what one would take to be a pair of united sagittate anthers covered with pollen have advanced just their length above the corollalobes.
At 8'5 this length is doubled.
The same progression continued till 8'30 when growth ceased the slender filament having grown six lines in thirty minutes.
Examining next the four anthers in the open flower they were found apparently destitute of pollen and remembei'ing that systematists had found a close relationship between Rubiacece and Com2JOslfce the idea suggested itself that the stamens in the corolla were sterile and that in some unaccountable manner two stamens had become as entirely consolidated with the style as in OrcJiidece and that only two fertile anthers were left which had united and formed a cap wholly covering the stigma.
Acting on the suggestion a pair of fine tweezers were placed under the seeming anthers and a gentle lift took it oflT as if it were a thimble in miniature leaving a clear greyishwhite ovate stigma behind.
The sagittate form of an anther is so plain and the four angles that these would make united back to back so apparent that I am satisfied no one at first thought would take them for anything else than as described.
Full of enthusiasm over the mystery I sent some to my friend Mr. Sereno Watson to learn what he would think of the missing link in this pair of monodelphous anthers.
His reply that he found some grains of pollen in the true anther sacs and only pollen on the stigma led me to look into the matter again and I found he was right.
The four anthers mature before the pistil takes its rapid start.
At anthesis the anthers are pressed firmly over the stigma.
When the growth of the pistil occurs the stigma wipes out almost clean the entire mass of pollen and so nicely as to retain the form of the anther lobes on the stigma as the style develops.
I have since found that this simulation of the form of real anthers is not seen in the open air.
The motion of the atmosphere or possibly the jar from the visits of nocturnal insects gives a rounded form to the stigmacovering mass.
After twenty four hours a portion of the clear stigma is seen above the mass of pollen showing that the stigma expanded a little after the growth of the style had been completed.
I think it is conceded that plants have not a time for the opening of flowers from which they never depart and that exceptions have been noted in even very regular habits.
But it may be stated in a general way that the flowers of this Cephalanthus open rapidly soon after dark and never during the day time.
The odor of the flowers is singularly grateful.
They are visited by large numbers of insects for their nectar day and night.
No pollen gatherers seem to work on them.
There is indeed no chance to collect it from the stigma no platform affords a facility for standing during collection.
The pollen remains on the stigma till the wdiole dries away.
It is one of the most complete adaptations for selffertilization known to me outside of the Cleistogene class.
Interested in noting how this absolute inandin breeding affected productiveness I subsequently found the flowers remarkably fertile.
Numerous seeds were in every head examined.
Carefully dissecting one I found it had 279 flowers of these 225 perfected seeds and only 54 failed.
In describing Cephalanthus occidentalis in Flora Cestrica Darlington describes the flowers as five lobed  most other botanists foui'parted.
My flowers were mostly four but many fiveparted.
The glands between the lobes of the corolla appear to have been unnoticed.
That the receptacle is filiferous has long been observed Loureir's Flora of Cochin China 1788 and Gray Synoptical Flora of North America 1884 notes that these setiform bractlets between the flowers are glandularcapitate.
Donn Dichlamydeous Plants 1834 notes in the American species glands none in calyx or corolla.
They are so easily noted in these specimens before me that it is singular they should have been overlooked.
There are four of these setiforme bractlets at Ihe base of each floret and they are slightly squamiform at the base.
They are nearly alternate with the lobes of the calyx starting from a little to one side of the sharp angle that terminates at the base of the division of the calyx.
The setiform bractlet is just the length of the tube of the calyx and if adherent to the calyx the gland would be just where it is situated in the lobes of the corolla.
No one can fail to see the gland on the corolla is the analogue of that on the setiform bractlet.
We have no hesitation in concluding that there is primarily another series of bractlets between the calyx and coiolla and that they have become confluent with the corolla.
On this tlieory the lobes of the coroHa should be opposite and not alternate with those of the calyx.
After this theory had suggested itself examination of the flowers showed it was correct.
The lobes of the corolla are opposite the lobes of the calyx.
The close relationship of RubiaceiB to Compositse has often been remarked on.
There are some correspondences in these observations worthy of note Mr. Darwin remarks Effects of Cross and Selffertilization p. 173 1877 that '' Composike are well adapted to crossfertilization and Professor Asa Gray Anerican Agriculturist adopts the same view referring to the rayflorets as if they were flags to attract insects.
Adaptation is however chiefly inferred from the fact that the stigma pushed up through the column of anthers and covered with pollen generally cleaves at the summit.
The iuterior faces thus seem destitute of pollen and must receive it from some external agency.
The author of the present paper has however shown by careful observation on the flowers of Chicory that the pollen grains fall into the cleft as the lobes of the stigma diverge.
Many experiments by enclosing flowers of different genera in fine gauze resulted in the florets seeding just as well as when exposed to the visits of insects.
He has therefore always contended that the suposed arrangements for crossfertilization in Composifce were deceptive and that the species are generally closely selffertilizers.
In further support of this view he has called attention to the fact that in jlants conceded to be dependent mainly on external aid for pollen a large nutiiber of flowers never get fertilized at all while in self fertilizers fiiilure rarely occurs.
Compositce come squarely into this class.
The hermaphrodite florets rarely one nnght also add if ever fail to ierfcct their seed.
The remarkable fertility of the selfpoUenized florets in the heads of Cephalanthus deserve to be noted in correspondence with the selfpollenized florets of Compositce.
The bractlets at the base of the flowers are the analogues of the scales on the receptacles of Compositor The bractlets or a cycle of floral parts similar to and succeeding bractlets unite with the corollatube and form intralobular teeth in Cephalanthus.
May not certain forms of seta Ilellanthus Heliopsis etc.
be bractea that have become confluent with the calyx their apices forming the setaceous teeth 
It is difficult to determine this point from the want of correspondence in number abortion 
of some of the parts but it is worthy of note that in the two genera just named and others where these teeth exist a tooth is always alternate with the main lobe that distinguishes the ray from the tubular floret.
I think it will be conceded that given a very little arrestation development union or separation of parts as we find them in Cephalantkus it would not be difficult to construct a Composite flower.
Amorpha canescens Nutt.
Amorplm fruticosa has leaves glandular pellucid punctate the dots being irregular in size.
The legumes are covered by very large glands also irregular in size.
In the leaves of Amorpha canescens the pellucid dots are also irregular and in many leaflets so indistinct that one should scarcely note their existence only that we are looking for them.
In the legumes however the glands are large and abundant and readily observed through the dense mass of woolly hair that envelopes them.
The point is worth noting.
The carpels morphologically leaves usually have many characters suppressed in the progress of development from the primordial leaf to the carpel  but here we find characters existing in a marked degree in the leaves of an allied species and nearly suppressed in its own foliage reappearing as a strong feature in the legume.
During anthesis many interesting points present themselves.
The anthers are fully formed and exhibit their yellow surfaces through the bursting sepals when they seem to have their further growth arrested and the pistil only elongates.
It extends to double the length of the calyx.
This is the work of the first day of opening.
The next day the stamens lengthen but one at a time.
As soon as the first one has jeached the exact length of the Distil another starts into growth then another until towards the end of the day's work all are of about equal length.
Soon after reaching its final growth the anther sacs burst and thus one after another in regular succession the pollen is ejected from the cells.
On the third day the pistil recurves the apex forming a right angle with the base and usually having its stigmatic apex in among the withered stamens of the flowers lower on the spike.
All this time the only petal possessed by the flower the vexillum has remained nearly quiescent.
It projects its beautiful blue tint just a little beyond the calyx the second day after the last stamen has made its growth  but it is not till the third day that it makes a growth in earnest when it goes on 22 rapidly not however ieaching quite the length attained by the stamens and pistil.
The observation worth recording here is that the bright corolla is often referred to in modern times as being colored in order to attract insects to aid in the work of crossfertilization.
The colored corolla does not appear here until fertilization has been effected which is evidenced by the recurving of the pistil.
The orangegold of the anthers would of themselves be sufficiently attractive  and the later effect of the vexillum wholly superfluous if mere attraction were the sole end nature had in view.
Although the pistil matures a whole day before the stamens mature the stigma receives the pollen often from the stamen of the same flower or from those in the immediate vicinity and which matured the day before which is selffertilization crossfertilization being according to Darwin the reception of pollen from another plant.
The flowers seem very grateful to the pollen gathering insects.
After cleaning out the orangecolored pollen from the woolly linings of the cell by the insect the empty white anthers gave an additional interest to the orange and blue of the more perfect flowers.
The explanation of the late growth of the vexillum is evidently that growth is reflex from the central axis downwards as Ave see in Liatris and other Comjjositce.
After the axis as represented by the pistil has finished its growth the spiral uncoils downward and permits of the axial growths that the floral parts represent beginning with the most advanced stamen and running back to the petal which of course would be the outermost verticil in the coil.
Oxybaphus Jdrsutus Oxybaphus says an old writer of the Linnean School is a genus of the class Triaiidria.
The only known species is Oxybaphus viscosus.
It is a native of Peru and is nearly allied to Mirabilis under which genus it is ranged by Cavanilles but was made a distinct genus by L'Heritier on account of its only having three stamina and the calyx enlarged and peltate attending the fruit.
In those times to have three stamens was an essential character of the genus.
In Gray's Manual 0. nyctagineus being the only one described the genus has stamens mostly three.
In Coulter's Flora of Colorado stamens usually three is the record.
As it is stated of Mirabilis by Coulter stamens usually five it is evident modern authors equally with the founder of the genus look to the number of stamens as in some measure a generic character.
So far as I can find in works to hand the number of stamens is not specially noted in any description except in tlie one case of 0. coccineus in Rothrock's Report of the Wheeler Expedition.
Clioisey in DeCaudolles Prodromes lias stamina 5 as one of the characters of the whole genus.
In view of this uncertainty it is worth placing on record that 0. hirsutus Sweet always within my observations has five stamens.
I have had plants growing from seed gathered by me in Southern Colorado a number of years ago and the jlants uniformly have five stamens.
The flowers always ojen towards evening.
On August 10th I sat myself to watch their unfolding.
At 4 P. M. one could just trace the pink color line with a portion of a filament discernible  by 430 the stamens and jjistil were fully exserted over an inch in length beyond the perianth the segments of the perianth were partially expanded but were crumpled and by 5 these Avere fully expanded and the flower perfectly in bloom.
Hundreds opened but the anthesis of all was simultaneous.
The involucre is threeflowered but one opens first and we may call this a central one.
The two lateral open together the next day.
It is interesting to watch the expansion of the flower.
The sta mens in vernation are incurved.
The anther seems to be cauoht in the imperfectly open flower.
The filament as it elongates forms a loop.
AVhen the half hour of growth has been nearly reached tlie perianth by that time expanding a little and freeing the anther from pressure the incurved portion springs suddenly forward and instantaneously we have the long straight exserted stamen.
In all that I noted the stamens proceeded thus  one at a time successively the whole five occupying about two minutes to straighten out.
The flowers continue open all night  but commence to close by daylight in the morning.
I have noted on other occasions that some plants do not keep good time any more than some watches.
I thought to repeat the observations on the evening of the 11th.
Strange to say at 5 P. M. there were no more signs of opening than on the preceding day at 4.
At 6 P. M. only one flower was open.
At 7'30 they were all fully open as the day before at 5.
It was a very dark and cloudy afternoon heavy rain with lightning at 630.
As most evening flowers seem favored by moisture and darkness this contrary observation is worth recording.
The growth of the pistil is coincident with that of the stamens and is of equal length.
The anther cells burst at once on the stamen reaching its full length.
The pollen is remarkably large there being only about 25 grains in each cell.
The stigma seems receptive coincident with the maturity of the pollen.
There is nothing to suggest any special arrangements for crossfertilization.
The flowers are odorless.
Moths visit the flowers freely.
The moth remained a long time feasting on a single flower generally from two to three minutes.
It used the mass of filaments with the style for a platform on which to work for the nectar at the base of the style.
Its motions would tend to shake the pollen out into the flower's own stigma and aid in selffertilization.
Large numbers of the flowers on my plants are barren.
Many have not one some have but one and rarely are there two seeds in a single involucre.
Besides the three flowers that are produced in each involucral cup a branch occasionally proceeds from the same axis.
The flowers are usually regarded as apetalous but a close examination of an opening flower is strongly suggestive of an amalgation of the corrolline and calycine whorls in one perianth.
As the flower is opening the bud presents what a superficial examination would regard as a fivecleft calyx with greenlancelinear and hairy segments and it would be a surprise to an original observer to find a monopetalous corolla wholly in one piece with what appeared to be a distinct calyx.
At the apex of one of the segments and Avhich by the way are alternate with what should be petals there are two small pinlike white glands  at the apex of another one gland  and at the apex of a third a small and imperfect one.
This indicates that the elementary paits forming the floral whorl did not coil rapidly on its spiral course  as also does the successive development of the stamens  we may reasonably look for some irregular flowers among its congeners.
Iri'itability in the Stamens of Echinocaetus.
It has been long known that the stamens of many Opuntias are irritable or sensitive when fully expanded under a hot sun.
I have placed on record that this character extends to other allied genera.
This summer I noted that the stamens of Echinocaetus Ottonis were particularly irritable.
Diurnal opening of the floivers of Magnolia glauca.
My brother Joseph called ray attention to the fact that cut flowers of Magnolia glauca in water in our office opened at 4 P. M. I found this to be the case also with plants growing in the open air no matter whether the sun was shiniiig or the sky cloudy.
They open at 4 P. M. but close again before nightfall.
The next day at 4 they open again the anthers shed their pollen and then the petals close again.
At 4 the third day they again expand and continue expanded for some days till they fade.
NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF ECHIDNA HYSTRIX.
BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN M. D. The specimen of Echidna hystrix upon which the following observations were made lived in the gardens of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia about six weeks spending most of its time entirely covered by the six inches of earth at the bottom of the cage.
Its habit of feeding was similar to that of the anteaters the tongue PI.
XIV 2 being slender and projected through the maxillary opening to the extent of about three inches.
Under the artificial conditions of confinement it ajpeared sluggish.
During life it was noticed that the position of the feet was such as to project the big toe outward the soles being turned upAvard and backward.
A thick panniculus carnosus muscle covered the whole animal.
A long slender muscle arose from the lower ribs on each side and was inserted in the soles of the anterior feet while a corresponding muscle arose from the tuberosity of the ischium to be inserted in the calcaneum.
Otherwise there was nothing unusual about the muscles of the extremities.
Those of the fore limbs were however enormously developed.
The salivary glands Plate XIV fig.
2 s were of large size two inches in length with well developed ducts which terminated by small openings in the floor of the mouth.
The small intestines were one hundred and two inches and the large fifteen inches in length.
The latter terminated in the cloaca PI.
XV fig.
2 c. At the union of the small with the large intestines a short vermiform appendix was observed.
The mucous membrane of the intestines was smooth throughout its entire tract no valvulae conniventes being observed as in Orinthorhynchus.
Peyer's patches were well developed in the small intestines.
Three vena cavae were present two anterior and one posterior as in marsupials.
Reta mirabile were observed in the iliac and brachial veins.
The blood corpuscles Avere sisos of an inch in diameter the blood itself being loaded with quadrilateral crystals.
The spleen PL XV 1.
Avas a triangular gland.
The liver Avas four lobed and was provided AA'ithalarge gall bladder.
The pancreas was Avell developed its duct conti'ary to the usual arrangement passing into the intestine at a point nearer the pyloric orifice than the bile duct.
The kidneys PI.
XV 2 k. were of equal size.
The two ureters passed into the urogenital canal the bladder opening into the latter separately as did also the vasa deferentia from the testicles.
While the anterior extremity of the urogenital canal thus received the openings of the bladder the ureters and the spermatic ducts it divided at its posterior extremity into two passageways the posterior of which led into the cloaca the anterior into the peneal urethra.
The penis lay next to the wall of the cloaca and was attached thereto by fibrous tissue the posterior ends being free and unattached to the pelvis.
The glands were composed of four mammilloid processes provided with minute papillae.
The posterior orifice of the urethra was probably pushed during coition towards the orifice of the spermatic ducts so as to form a continuous canal with the latter thus preventing the escape of semen into the cloaca.
No trace of a mammary gland was found.
The brain PI.
XIV 1 differed from that of Or fiith or hynchus in being much convoluted.
As regards the corpora quadrigemina the nates were well developed but the lines of demarcation between them and the testes and between the testes themselves were very obscure.
The corpus callosum was developed only in its anterior portion.
The thalamus opticus and hippocampus major were remarkably prominent.
A little spur was present on the calcaneum as in Orinthorhynchus but the gland and duct with which it communicated were much smaller and placed not so high up on the leg as in the latter.
As this spur was j resent only in the male it may be a sexual appendage.
The animal had been observed by Mr. A. E. Brown the superintendent of the garden to clean its spines by means of its hind limbs and the secretion of oil from the gland which is discharged through the spur may merely assist in this process.
November 1 1887.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Twentyseven persons jDresent.
The death of Frederick Graf Marshall a correspondent was announced.
Note on the Sense of Direction in a European Ant Formica rufa.
Dr. Henry C. McCook remarked that during the summer he had made an observation upon the well known horse ant or Formica rvfa of Great Britain.
While visiting the Trosachs of Scotkind he found a number of nests of this species scattered throughout the glen known as the Pass of Achray through which flows the little Achray River the stream that joins Loch Katrine to Achray.
These nests are found on either side of the footwalk which leads from the Trosachs glen to the sluices as they are popularly called which regulate the stage of water in Loch Katrine.
1.
Structure of the Ant Hills The mounds raised by the Rufous ants are heaps of earth intermingled with chippage of various sorts they rise to the height of about three feet and some of them are six or seven feet in diameter across the base.
They stand amid the tall bracken which overhangs them and at times almost conceals them from the passer by.
The surface of the mounds is covered with bits of straw and leaves stalks of grass and ferns and various material of like sort which forms a quite decided thatch.
ISTumbers of openings appear upon the surface at irregular intervals from the summit to the base and in the afternoon at 4 o'clock the workers in vast numbers were dragging the chippage back and forth apparently engaged in closing the doors for the night although time did not permit an observation of the actual closure.
2.
Character of Roads and Engineering Skill.
That which especially attracted Dr. McCook's attention was the character of the roads leading from the ant hills to the various points in the surrounding woods.
These roads or trails were distinctly marked upon the surface of the ground having in places a width of from two to four inches which was stained a dark brown or black probably by the formic acid exuded from the insects the leaves and grass upon which the trail was made were pressed down and smoothed by the constant action of innumerable legs upon the surface.
So well marked were the trails that even without the presence of the columns of insects that thronged back and forth upon them they were distinctly and easily traced.
While following up one of these roads the observer was impressed by the flict that it showed scarcely any deviation from a straight line.
In order to test this matter more carefully he selected a large mound from which three roads radiated.
These were all traced to their termination at three several oak trees up which the columns of ants ascended in search of food supjly from numerous aphides which infested the bianches of the trees.
The ant roads were then carefully marked out by stakes stationed at short intervals a course which was made necessary by the fact that they were carried for considerable distances beneath the tall bracken wliich had to be pushed aside in order to reveal them.
The result of his observations is as follows Road No.
1 was 21 paces in length about 65 feet and was carried in an almost perfectly straight line from the nest to the terminal tree.
Ko.
2 was 23 paces in length about 70 feet.
It varied less than three inches from a direct line measuring from the nest to a point within two feet of the terminal tree.
There the column made a detour of about six inches from the straiglit line but an alaudoned path continuous with tie main road which had apparently been used at a recent date was traced for a considerable distance further without any deflection.
No.
3 was the longest road of the three being 34 paces in length.
It extended for six paces in a straight line from the nest at which point it touched an old stump which evidently deflected the path at a slight angle.
From this point it was again continued in a nearly straight line as far as the beaten footpath tlirough the wood.
Here the ant trail was obliterated by the friction of passing human feet but the ants themselves thronged over the pathway in a column much broadened by continual interference and loss caused by foot passengers.
The trail was however resumed at a point nearly opposite that at which it touched the path and was continued again in a straight line six paces further to the tree where it terminated.
When the entire trail Avas staked off it was found that its terminus deviated less than three feet from a straight line drawn from the point of departure at the ant hill.
The greater deviation in this case seemed evidently to have been caused by the peculiar difiiculties in the chosen track.
The three roads so radiated from the nest that they were included within about one quadrant of a circle of which the two shorter trails might represent the radial boundaries of the quadrant while the longer trail was drawn nearly midway between the two.
Taking the results of the three observations together it is manifest that the ants showed an accurate sense of direction in marking out and following their approaches to the trees.
It would be scarcely reasonable to attribute such mathematical accuracy as above shown to mere accident.
The roads in point of directness were as accurately laid down as ordinary roads made by the engineering skill of men.
The skill of the ants was all the more apparent from the fact that iheir paths were carried through the jungle of bracken and various other wood plants.
The same flxct appears to indicate that the insects could not have been largely directed by the sense of sight.
 It would perliaps be idle to speculate upon the manner in which this feat of emmet engineering was accomplished as there were no facts observed which give a clue to the mode of proceeding but the problem is one well worth study by naturalists on the ground.
3.
Engineering of Texas Catting Ants.
Dr. McCook in this connection alluded to an observation which has heretofore been placed on record ' describins an underoround route of the cutting ant of Texas Attn fervens.
This route extended 448 feet entirely beneath the surface of the earth at some places as deep as six feet and hav The vision of ants is probably limited witiiin a very short iistance from the eyes under any circumstances therefore it could have but little influence in determining such a phenomenon as here recorded.
H. C. McC.
 See the anther's Tenants of an Old Farm p. 24 fig.
90. ing an average depth of eighteen inches.
From the points at which the ants came to the surface the road was continued in a straight line 185 feet further to a tree in a gentleman's private grounds which the ants were engaged in defoliating.
The entire length of the roadway was thus 661 feet and the path as laid out by a young engineer who assisted in the observation shows scarcely less deflection from a straight course than that of the Rufous ants recorded in the above observation.
4.
Sentinels.
The longest of the three trails alluded to made by the Scotch ants terminated upon an oak tree which was also occupied by a colunni of ants from a neighboring hill.
The two colunms rigidly maintained their laces on opposite sides of the trunk.
Sentinels were scattered along either margin of both columns and these exhibited great watchfulness and sensitiveness to the approach of any object.
Dr. McCook on approaching his flnger to these sentinels observed that they seemed to perceive his finger when it reached a point an inch or an inch and a half distant from the bark.
At once the ants thrust out their antennae extended their heads then the two front legs and finally the middle legs thus hanging to the bark of the tree by the hind legs alone the abdomen being slightly turned underneath the body as though prepared to eject formic acid upon any adversary.
In one case at least the ant hung to the bark by one hind foot alone extending the whole body in a perpendicular direction from the surface of the tree.
It presented a grotesque appearance and exhibited every sign of eagerness and vigilance in the discharge of its duty as watchman.
Several individuals were taken from one column and placed in the line of march of the ants from the other nest.
They showed the usual evidences of strangeness and failed to fraternize but on the other hand no one was assaulted by the passers by a toleration worthy of note as shoAving some degree of community among the various nests of the one species.
The time which Dr. McCook could give to these observations W'as limited to several hours of a summer afternoon which he spent as a tourist in this interesting mountain region but they present some conclusions which apear to be reasonably decisive and which at least may serve to stimulate further observations in the same line extending over greater periods and including a greater number of cases.
November 8.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twentyone persons present.
1887.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
oz9 November 15.
The President Dr. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Twentyfive persons present.
Papers under the following titles wei'e presented for publication Note on Achines lorentzi Weyenburgh.
By David S. Jordan.
Description of two new species of Fishes from South America.
By David S. Jordan.
Geological Restdts of the Boring of an Artesian ivell at Atlantic City N. J. Mr. Lewis Woolman stated that there was commenced in the summer of 1886 at Atlantic City N. J. an artesian well the drilling of which has been since continued with some intermission until at the present time a depth of 1121 feet has been reached.
During a recent cessation in the work caused by delay in the receipt of pipe for tubing the well he had been jjermitted through the courtesy of the gentlemen interested in the enterprise to turn over and examine the sands clays and marls accumulated in the dump heap and had found many fossil representatives of life forms including a bone the articulating end of a femur or humerus of an animal belonging to the Crocodilia presented by Dr. T. K. Reed and a few shells and fish teeth presented by Jas.
H. Moore engineer in charge.
There have been obtained from the well 52 species in all 42 being mollusks.
Many of the smaller shells were entire and quite perfect but most of the larger ones were fragmentary having been broken in pieces by the drill.
James H. Moore also kindly furnished a minute description of the thickness and character of all the sands passed through by a careful examination of which and a grouping of the smaller seams with the larger ones that give character to formations the speaker had constructed the following section  i Superficial SandsGravels First 285 ft. and Clays.
Wood found at the base p J 285 ft. to 416 ft.  131 ft. Black Clavs and Sands.
Greenish Clays and Marls r  wltli mucli comminutcd T '  1 ir 1.
4. r7A tv ooft. shell  some shark teeth and maris  4oo it.
to 60 ft.  23o ft.  ' r i v .1 n 1 and many seams oi britwith fossils xi 1 1 J
tie marly clay oi gray Sands.
I 670 ft. to 691 ft.  21 ft. blackish and brownish color.
Blad sands 540 1887.
Clays with fossils Sands.
Clays.
Marls.
Sands.
691 ft. to 722 ft.  722 ft. to 806 ft.  806 ft. to 866 ft.   m ft. to 939 ft.   939 ft. to 999 ft.   31 ft. 84 ft. 60 ft. 73 ft. 60 ft. Chocolate Clay.
Fossiliferous Clays and sands  shells and sharks teeth.
Nonfossiliferous sands alternating blackish whitish and reddish brownin color.
Dark Marls and Clays.
Green marls various shades and black marls.
f 999 ft. to 1119 ft.  120 ft. Sands mostly yellowish full of barWater J119ft.toll21ft.
2 ft. green and nacles.
White Sands.
flowing to surface.
Total 1121ft.
Prof Angelo Heilprin has kindly and very carefully examined and identified all the specimens of fossils.
The sjeaker has placed to the right of each in the following list the range along the Atlantic Seaboard where outcrops containing the same fossils have previously been found the names of the formation being those established by Prof. Heilprin in his Tertiary Geology in which the formation in in the state of Maryland is divided into an older and a newer group  ' Marylandian Older Maryland group.
 Lower Atlantic Miocene.
Virginian Newer Maryland group and deposits of Miocene  Virginia.
 Middle Atlantic Miocene.
Carolinian Deposits of North and South Carolina.
 Upper Atlantic Miocene.
Anomia probably ephippium.
N. C. S. C. Area centenaria Area subrostrata Area idonea
Area lienosa' Artemis acetabulum
Astarte eompsonema Astarte obruta Astarte perplana Astarte Thomasii Cardita graniUata Cardita arata Crassatella melina Corbula idonea Corbula elevata Cardium probably laqueatun N. J.
Newer Md. Va.  S. C. Older Md.
Newer Md. Va. N. C. Newer  Older Md. Va. N. C. N.J.
Newer Md.
NcAver INId.
N.J.
Newer Md. Va. N. C S. C. N. J.
Newer Md. Va. N.C. S.C. N. J.
Older Md. Va. N. C. Newer and Older Md.
N. J.
Older Md.
N. J. Va.
1887.
341 K J. S. C. N.J.
Newer Md.
N. J.
Older Md.
S. C. N.J. N. J.
Newer Md. Va. N. C. S. C. N. J. Va. N. C. N.J N.J.
Newer Md.
Older Md.
Va. N. C. Cytherea Diseina luguhris Donax variabilis Fulgiir Lucina trisulcata Mactra lateralis Madra ponderosa Mytiloconclia incurva Mytilus incrassatus Mysia Natica catenoides Nassa trivittata N'ucula obliqua Ostrea Peden Madisonius Peden Huyvphreysii Peden vicenarius Perna maxlllata Tellina subrejiexa Tellina dedivis.
Turr itella Oumb er landia Turritella ceqicistriata Turritella plubeia Turritella sp.
not determinable Turbinella Woodi Venus.
Barnades Femur or humerus Tooth Tooth Lamna compressa Tooth Odontaspis Tooth species not determinable Teeth Myliobates Spine of Ediinus Dendropliyllia Polyzoan James H. Moore had noted the depth from which the specimens furnished by him had been taken  with this information and an examination of the sands of the dump and their contained fossils it may be safely concluded that of the above  Turritella plebeia came from a depth of about 450 ft. Corbula elevata came from a depth of about 730 ft. Perna maxillata came from a depth of about 800 ft.
The paleontological evidence indicates that the portion of the section between 400 and 700 feet belongs to the Middle Miocene and all below that to the Lower Miocene.
About 15 of the above species it is believed have never before been found in New Jersey.
These are from the upper layers Middle Miocene which no doubt exist further back from the shore say N. J.
Older Md. Va. N.J. N.J.
Newer Md.
N.J. Crustacea.
Crocodilia.
Gavial.
Shark.
Shark.
Shark.
Fish.
Coral about 30 miles N. W. Avhere they are buried beneath 50 to 100 feet of more recent Tertiary sands and gravels.
JNIost of the other species Lower Miocene that have previously been noticed in the state occur at Shiloh near Bridgeton in Cumberland County while others are found in Salem County.
The lower strata from which they were obtained also probably exists in a direct N. W. line 33 to 35 miles from Atlantic City  but these are likewise covered by more recent Tertiary strata.
November 22.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. VicePresident in the chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
Note on Oyrtophora b if urea and her cocoons a New Orbweaving Spider.
Dr Henry C. McCook remarked that during a temporary stay in Florida April 1886 he found nested upon the porch of Dr. Wittfeld's place Fair3and Merrit's Island on the Indian River a little way below Rockledge a spider which appears to be new to science.
Its snare resembles that of Oyrtophora eatidata Hentz.
It also resembles that spider in the manner of hanging its cocoon string in the vertical axis of its orb just above the hub.
The character of the cocoon hoAvever differs entirely from that of caudata.
It is in the shape of a somewhat irregular octogon and is of a light green color.
The speaker had found as many as twelve cocoons in one string overlapping one another in the manner which he had frequently observed with the cocoons of the Labyrinth spider Epeira labyrinthea Hentz and which may also be seen at times Avith the cocoons of caudata although for the most part the latter are arranged at intervals along the string.
The cocoon strings collected varied in the number of cocoons attached thereto probably according to the period of advancement in the process of ovipositing on the part of the mother.
Of the specimens collected one string contained 14 another 12 and another 10 cocoons.
They are bound together along one side by continuous series of thick white threads which extend from the top to the bottom of the string.
Each cocoon consists of two parts which have evidently been fastened together by a selvage.
These pai'ts present the appearance of two dishes placed together edge to edge.
They are woven of a soft but rather tough texture.
A very slight tuft of flossy white silk is found inside and within this the eggs are deposited.
In one cocoon of a string of thirteen twenty five minute dead spiders were counted which had passed their first moult.
In another cocoon taken from a string of five only there were twenty six.
The number varies a good deal however.
The cocooning period appears to extend into May at least Dr. McCook had received from Miss Anna Wittfield as late as the middle of June a string in which were some cocoons empty one with spiderlings passed the first moult several day and another with young who had just broken the egg.
There was no trace of the bifurcated abdomen upon these younglings.
The spider is of a uniform light green color about the shade of its cocoon.
The cephalothorax is of the same color as the abdomen in this respect differing from caudata which is black.
The head also is not so much elevated as is that of caudata.
The adult female is threeeights of an inch in length and the only specimen of a male obtained is about threesixteenths of an inch in length although it is an immature specimen apparently lacking one moult of maturity.
The most striking characteristic of the female spider is that the conical prolongation of the abdomen which marks the genus is distinctly cleft at the apex giving it thus the appearance of the tail of certain fishes and birds and for this reason it is named CyHophora bifurca.
In this respect it decidedly differs from caudata whose apex is without a cleft.
On the basal part of the dorsum of the abdomen are four conical jirocesses arranged two on each side symmetrically the hind pair being the smaller.
These processes are soft resembling thus the like cones on the abdomens of the Angulata group of Epeiroids rather than the tough spinous processes upon Acrosoma and Gaderacanthit.
The spinnerets are surrounded by a broad white band which extends along the venter as far as the epigynum.
The lip is sharply triangular and the mandibles cut square across.
In both these respects the species differs from caudata.
The eyes of the front row aie about equally separated from each other although the interval between the midfronts is slightly less.
The side eyes are barely separated from each other.
The male specimen alluded to above Dr. McCook could not certainly aflSrm to belong to this spider.
It resembles caudata in its general apjearance the abdomen lacking the bifurcation which marks the female and the cephalothorax being of a jet black.
November 29.
The President Dr. Leidy in the chair.
Twentynine persons present The following were elected members  Messrs Garvin W. Hart Charles A. Davis Rev.
R. H. FultonD.D.
and Miss Mary E. Shively.
Orville A. Derby of Rio Janeiro was elected a correspondent.
The following were ordered to be printed 
