A PRODROME OF A MEMOIR ON ANIMAL LOCOMOTION.
Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the University of Pennsylvania, The writer has undertaken at the request of the representatives of the University of Pennsylvania a series of studies on animal locomotion.
The subject has been approached from the point of view presented by instantaneous photography, and has been especially based on the results obtained by Mr. Eadweard Muybridge.
The writer desires in this connection to return his acknowledgments to Mr. Muybridge for opportunities in examining early impressions of the plates, which he is engaged in publishing under the auspices of the University, and also to state that he is indebted to Prof Thomas Eakins for facilities afforded in studying the results of an experiment in the use of a modified form of Marey's wheel, devised by him in photographing the action of the horse in motion.
This short paper embraces the points which have been thought to have sufficient interest to appear in advance of the final memoir, and will include observations on the movements of the quadrupeds only.
Many of the statements could have been deduced fi*om data already accessible to the Avriter.
But since he wrote the paper immediately after the inspection of the photographs his conclusions may be said to be based upon them.
At the same time he has not hesitated to include materials not embraced by the photographs.
Whenever practicable the study of a given series was carried on at the same time that the animal itself lay dissected before him.
For example, when studying the j)hotographs of the elephant he had the good fortune, through the courtesy of Prof, Huidekoper, to dissect the limbs of an elephant.
He has also dissected^ the horse, the ox, the raccoon, the sloth, the skunk, the Virginian deer and the domestic cat, THE USE OF TERMS.
It is necessary to propose the use of a few terms which will clearly express in a word a meaning which otherwise would require the employment of a cumbersome phrase.
The words flexion, extension 1 In this connection the writer wishes to give especial acknowledgments to his friends Prof. Horace Jayne and Mr. Edwin A. Kelly.
abduction, adduction, pronation and supination imperfectly express many animal movements.
Thus no adequate word exists for the movement of the hand upward and downward when the forearm is held in semipronation.
Such a motion is of importance in describing the wing of the bird and the bat.
The term Planation is here thought to be convenient since it expresses the fact that the movement of the hand is in the plane of the flexor surface of the forearm.
Planation includes both j^ronation and supination.
Contraplanation as easily indicates a movement at an angle to the plane of the flexor surface of the forearm.
It embraces flexion and extension and is not es2:)ecially demanded, except that a term which includes both flexion extension as well as abduction, as used in the sense of abduction of the thumb, may be acceptable.
In like manner it has been found useful to employ terms for the different orders of the foot-falls.
Synehiry indicates that the right and left foot of a single pair act together.
Thus in the gallop the horse moves all the feet synchirally.
The movement of the lower limbs in man is also synchiral.
The feet may act alternately or together.
Asyitchh'y would naturally embrace the movements in which the feet act in combinations of hind and forefeet.
But since these movements are varied and important, it has been thought desirable to substitute a positive term, and the word heterochiry ^ is j)roposed.
The walk, the trot and the rack are heterochiral, since the fore foot is follow^ed, not by its fellow, but by a hind foot.
When the hind foot alternates with the fore foot of the same side lateral heterochiry occurs.
When with the fore foot of one side the hind foot of the opposite side alternates, diagonal heterochiry takes place.
In connection with the terms flexion and extension the following will be used : The movement of a limb against the medium in which the animal is moving constitutes the "stroke."
The movement in preparation of the stroke constitutes the "recover."
In the description of the " hand over hand " movements of the sloth and the monkey, the word " flexion " has no place ; yet the " recover " is used in as exact a sense as in the movements of any other animal.
1 While assuming the responsibility for this word the writer desire at the same time to say that it was suggested to him in a conversation with his friend ProfT. N. Gill.
When a limb of a terrestrial quadruped rests UY>on the ground it may be said be " on," and when not on the ground, to be " off."
The term "sura" will be employed as a convenient word to include the hind limb from the knee to the ankle. "
Cms" has been retained so generally as a synonym for the entire posterior extremity as not to be available. "
Stroke " is the period of impact.
It is included in flexion, and constitutes its first stage.
"Recover" embraces the last stage of flexion and the whole of the period of foreward movement.
The terms "stroke" and " recover " are by no means the same as flexion and extension.
They simply express certain phases of limb-function which are seen during the acts of backward and foreward movements.
THE POSITION OF LIMBS.
In studying the motions of the limb of a vertebrate the position which answers to that taken by the salamander, Avhen at rest, is assumed to be the best adapted for comparison.
In this position the limb is horizontal to the plane of the longitudinal axis of the body.
The venter of the body and the ventral surface of the limb are on the same plane nearly.
The limb of a reptile varies scarcely at all from that just named.
When a terrestrial animal is erect the limb instead of being on the same plane with that of the body is moved a quarter of a circle downward.
In the bird the posterior extremity when at rest is in the same position as the terrestrial, but the anterior extremity, in marked contrast to it, is flexed.
When extended the extremity is thrown upward to a position as far removed from the horizontal position of the salamander in one direction as is that of the terrestrial quadruped in the other.
In the movement of all limbs the directions in the main are forward and backward.
Both the movements are oblique but between them is a position which is straight.
In the terrestrial animal this position may be said to answer to a line in the anterior extremity which lies immediately in advance of the withers and in the posterior extremity to the centre of the acetabulum.
THE MOVEMENTS OF LIMBS.
If a limb can be conceived moving in vacuo it can he at once understood that propulsion is impossible.
For propulsion can follow .only upon the initiation of an impetus and this in turn only by the resistance of the limb against the medium in which the animal is moving, or in the case of the terrestrial animal, the surface of the ground.
The resistance of the air and the water are so much less than that of the earth that the acts of flying and of swimming become radically different from those of walking, of running, or of any allied movement.
In flying and swimming the resistance made by the limb against the medium in effecting an impetus does not arrest the movement of the pinion or the foot ; whereas in terrestrial movements the instant that the foot strikes the earth the resistance is great and the arrest is complete.
In the swimming turtle the first stage of the recover drives the foot in spite of the resistance of the water to the point at which the second stage begins.
With some slight modifications the same is true of fossorial animals.
Thus in flying, in swimming, and in burrowing the limb describes a continuous movement which unites the path of the stroke to that of the recover.
In the animal moving on the surface of the ground, the foot being brought to rest, an absolute break occurs between the beginning of the act of recover and its completion, the time which would be required to describe the interval and thus to complete the union corresponds to the period that the foot is on the ground.
This weriod constitutes the stroke.
The limb rests on the ground until the trunk moves beyond the point at which it can maintain itself It is lifted at intervals which are dependent upon the momentum of the moving mass.
One, two^ or three limbs may be on the ground at the same time.
The rates at which the succession of the foot-falls occur, in their turn, depend not only upon the rate of sjieed at which the animal is moving, but on the gait as well.
KINDS OF WORK DONE BY THE LIMBS.
The kinds of work done by the limbs are two in number, viz., that done by the fore limbs and that done by the hind limbs.
The hind limbs are more powerful than the fore limbs, and in some animals, as the kangaroo and the jumping mouse, are the main eflectives.
No terrestrial animal depends for support upon the fore limbs.
AVhen all the limbs are equal or nearly equal in length, the preponderance is still in favor of the hind limbs owing to the ftict that the great backward movement of these limbs on the trunk is made possible by the fixation of the bones to the pelvis and through this structure to the vertebral column.
Not only is this the case but the hind limbs alone possess the power of propelling the body so as to throw upon the fore limbs the labor of accommodating themselves to the rate of work of their more powerful associates.
When an animal is moving at a high rate of speed, as in the gallop, the synchiral action of the hind limbs projects the body with such force as to compel the fore limbs to act simply as props which successively carry the body forwards until one of the hind limbs is again in position to give the body a second impetus.
In proof of this assertion it is only necessary to observe that the greatest height attained by the trunk is that secured by the rump when both hind feet are off the ground.
The statement generally made that the horse leaves the ground by one of the fore feet creates the impression that he gains the springing force from this foot, all the previous movements being in preparation for such a .spring.
In place of this statement another is here substituted, viz., that the horse springs from that hind foot which last leaves the ground and is " off" from all feet when he simply relinquishes the support afforded by the last prop, that is to say the last fore foot.
If the fore and hind limbs were based on the same plan the motion of an animal would be either a series of springs the two feet pushing against the ground at the same moment or a series of steps, the two feet moving alternately.
While closely resembling one another the two limbs are not on the same plan.
If any motion takes place in the vertebral column at the time that the fore limb is moving it is noticed that it occurs in the region of the neck.
The scapula has a slight motion downward and backward.
The motion in the hind limbs occur in the region of the lumbar vertebrse while the pelvic bones are fixed.
The limit of the forward motion of the hind limbs is dependent upon the flexibility of the lumbar vertebrae.
The limit of the similar motion of the fore limb is determined by the action of the muscles alone.
The forward motion of the fore limbs is essentially the same in all animals ; ])ut the forward movement of the hind limbs is variable, because the lumbar vertebrae differ in degrees of flexibility.
In unguiculates there is more lumbar flexibility than in ungulates.
In backward movements the opposite obtains, for in these positions the fore limbs can be carried back to a variable distance.
In the deer and its congeners the fore foot can be brought to a point near the centre of the body, and the limb be vertical.
In the horse the fore limb in backward strain is very oblique and the foot w'hile well placed under the trunk cannot reach the centre.
In the macaque the fore foot cannot pass beyond a vertical line which intersects the trunk a little back of the shoulderjoint.
The l)ackward movement of the hind limb is nearly the same in all animals.
The leg is always carried in a direct path, the limit of the movement being determined solely by the length of the limb.
In a Avord the forward movement is the less constrained in the fore limb while the backward movement is the least constrained in the hind limb.
The most variable movements are the backward for the fore-limb and the forward for the hind-limb.
The foot in all animals excepting the horse (and even in this single toed form the movement of the foot is nearly all essentials the same) is carried forward in semipronation.
The foot strikes the ground on the outer border.
Pronation now begins and is completed by the time the perpendicular line is reached.
The foot leaves the ground by the inner border (the toes being successively abducted) so that the pressure of the body is borne from without inward across the foot.
The foot is always everted as it leaves the ground.
In a plantigrade animal, as the raccoon, the foot is carried during the last part of recover nearly parallel to the plane of support.
In the rapid motion of ungulates the foot may actually touch the ground nearly to the hock.
In backward strain the hock or heel is gradually raised and at the end of strain the animal is seen touching the ground by the tip of the inner functionally active toe.
In the horse the foot leaves by the tij) of the hoof.
It is likely that the degree of impact of the outer border of the foot will be found to correlate mth the degree of development of the calcaneo-sural joint* since the weight must be carried along the outer border to the rest of tlie limb.
At the end of backward strain the limb from the knee distally is in the same line.
The moment flexion begins eversion is established, and the limb becomes angulated outward at the ankle.
The main axis of the proximal facet of the astragalus is correlative with the degree of this obliquity.
It is most pronounced in the horse, less so in the ox, and scarcely at all in the hog.
It has been already seen that when the limb is in the position of arrest and the momentum carries the body beyond the perpendicular line it is thrown into " backward strain."
The instant that the strain begins the knee is seen to move outward and the hock to move inward.
The parts of the foot below the heel remain unchanged.
The impact of the structures of the limb are thus impaired in backward strain.
It is well known that in the pentadacyle forms the foot can be readily rotated at the medio-tarsal joint and it is a reasonable *A name proposed for the joint existing between the fibular process of the calcaneum and the fibula or the tibia.
assumption that it is at this joint that the distal part of the limb moves when the entire limb rotates outward.
The femur, the ])ones of the leg, and the astragalus act as one factor ; and the calcaneum and the remaining bones of the foot as the other factor.
The socket for the proximal motion occurs at the hip, and that for the distal at the concavity of the scaphoid bone.
There is also considerable motion between the calcaneum and the cuboid bone and between the calcaneum and the lower end of the fibula, if this bone is present, or with the outer end of the tibia if it is absent.
Outward rotation of the main portion of the limb carries the calcaneum slightly inward by reason of the articulation between the calcaneum and the bones of the leg, Facets are here present in most terrestrial mammals.
In the wombat the articulation is evident.
It is present in a rudimentary form in man.
The outer surface of the calcaneum of the bear is marked by a stout roughened ridge as it enters into articulation with the fibula.
In the dog the surface is a small embossment which probably is in contact with the fibula only at the time of the backward strain.
In a single old dog examined the same ridge is present as in the bear.
A similar ridge Avhich develojDed under the stimulus of diseased action is seen in the skeleton of the tiger in the Museum of the Academy.
As the knee is rotated outward the outer border of the foot is slightly inverted.
This disposition is Oi^j^osed by the peroneus longus muscle Avhieh everts the foot.
Coincident with the inversion the external crucial ligament becomes tense and the tendency to torsion is checked.
The first movement noticed in the limb after it is beyond the centre of gravity is the flexion of the foot.
In the horse the hoof is thrown backward and the under surface of the foot is directed backward, the heel being raised first.
The sole is next directed upward.
In animals possessing more than one functionally active toe the toes are quickly adducted in the air so as to offer the least resistance to the impetus of the entire body.
Associated with the above a pronounced flexion of all parts of the limb occurs excepting at the hip, where the movement is slight.
A movement of the thigh toward the trunk is indeed discernible.
In animals possessing long thigh-bones, such as the elephant, the movement is more decided than in the ungulates.
The same remarks are applicable to the movements of the humerus.
The degree to Avhich flexion is carried is more marked in the young than in the adult, and in terrestrial than in arboreal creatures.
In the sloth ( Cholcepus) flexion is absent, the limbs being advanced by a SAvinging motion at the shoulder and the hip.
The unaided eye receives the impression of backward movement but fails to be impressed with forward movement.
It may hence be inferred that the former is a quicker movement than the latter.
In the fore limb the last state of extension of the forearm answers to the action of the extensors of the carpus and of the digits.
In the less delicate movements of the hind limb the muscles which extend the tarsus and the toes move the foot with less precision and it is likely with less speed.
Biological Department of the University of Pennsylvania, March 1st, 1887.
March 22.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-four persons present.
The following Avere ordered to be printed : a list of the carices of pennsylvania.
By Thos.
C. Porter.
All the species of Carex contained in this list are represented in the herbarium of Lafayette College by specimens from all the counties named, Avith the single exception of C. Torreyi.
It will be observed, that, contrary to the common usage, the county is put first, the particular station next, and then, the name of the collector, in italics.
When the latter is wanting, it indicates that the author himself is the collector.
The order of arrangement and most of the changes in nomenclature are taken from the Synopsis of North American Cnrices, by L. H. Bailey, Jr., published in the Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1886.
1.
Carex pauciflora, Lightf.
Susquehanna, near Montrose, Garber, 1869 ; Wayne, Torrey Lake, Garber, 1870.
Very rare.
The southern limit of the species.
2.
Carex subulata, Michx.
Schuylkill, Broad Mountain, in a bog beside the railroad, in company Avith the very rare and local Juncus SmitUi, Engelm., 1866.
According to Darlington's Flora Cestrica, it has also been found in Chester County.
3.
Carex folliculata , L. Monroe, Pocono ; Lackawanna, Moosic Lake ; Luzerne, Carbondale, Garber; Schuylkill; Northampton, Pen Argyl ; Delaware, Tinicum ; Lancaster, Smithville SAvamp ; Centre, Bear Meadows ; Venango, East Sandy Creek, Garber.
Common in the mountains, but rare elsewhere.
4.
Carex intumescens, Budge.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster; Blair, Boeching ; Armstrong, Knipe.
5.
Carex Grayii, Carey.
, Clearfield, McMinn, 1867 ; Mercer, Garber, 1868.
Delaware, Tinicum, A. H. Smith, 1867.
Very rare east of the Allegheuies.
6.
Carex lurida, Wahl.
(C. lupidina, Muhl.).
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Delaware, Dr. George Smith ; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Huntingdon.
7.
Carex lurida, Wahl., far.
polystachya, Bailey.
Clearfield, McMimi', Crawford, Conneaut Lake, Garber.
Rare.
Not known east of the Alleghenies.
8.
Carex oligosperma, Michx.
Centre, in a bog four miles west of Pennsylvania Furnace ; Carbon, borders of Round Pond, Aug., 1867.
Very rare.
The southern limit of the species.
9.
Carex rostrata, Withering.
Monroe, Tobyhanna Mills and Tunkhannock Creek ; Erie,, Presque Isle, Garber.
10.
Carex rostrata, Withering, var.
utriculata, Bailey.
Monroe, Dr. Traill Green, Moy^er ; Sullivan, C. E. Smith ; Tioga, Garber ; Centre, Bear Meadows ; Elk, McMinn.
11.
Carex monile, Tuckerman.
Bucks, Sellersville, Fretz; Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.
); Huntingdon, Barrens, Loivrie; Elk, McMinn; Crawford, Garber; Mercer, Middlesex, Garber.
12.
Carex Tuckermani, Boott.
Monroe, Pocono ; Huntingdon; Clearfield, Jfcit;m; Mercer, Garber.
Rare.
13.
Carex bullata, Schkuhr.
Lancaster, Smithville Swamp; Lycoming, Limekiln Swamp, McMinn.
Rare and local.
14.
Carex retrorsa, Schweinitz.
Huntingdon, near Pennsylvania Furnace, Boecking, 1870.
The only station known in the State.
The southern limit of the species.
15.
Carex tentaculata, Muhl.
Monroe; Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.
); Lancaster; Centre; Blair, Boecking; Clearfield, McMinn; Clarion, Garber.
Common and abundant.
16.
Carex tentaculata, Muhl., var.
gracilis, Boott.
Wayne, Garber; Monroe; Huntingdon; Clearfield, McMinn.
17.
Carex Schweinitzii, Dewey.
Monroe, Pocouo, Schiveinitz.
The sj)ecimen is from Schweinitz himself, but it does not seem to have been collected in Pennsylvania since his day.
18.
Carex hystrieina, Mllhl.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton, Easton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Huntingdon.
19.
Carex Pseudo-Cyperus, L. Erie, Presque Isle, Garber.
20.
Carex Pseudo-Cyperus, L, var.
comosa, W. Boott.
Wayne, Garher ; Pike, Fiot ; Northampton, near Easton ; Bucks, Diffenbaugh, (Moyer's Cat,) ; Lancaster ; Huntingdon, Alexandria ; Crawford, Conneaut Lake, Garber ; Erie, Presque Isle, Garber.
21.
Carex stenolepis, Torrey.
Huntingdon, near Alexandria; Greene, Greensboro, Garber.
Very rare and local.
23.
Carex squarrosa, L. Bucks, Diffenbaugh; FhUjAdelfhia, Diffenbaugh ; Delaware Dr. G.Smith; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
), Lancaster; Huntingdon; Clearfield, McMinn; Mercer, Garber; Allegheny, Knipe.
23.
Carex Shortiana, Dewey.
Franklin, in meadows around Mercersburg.
The only station known in the State.
Its northern and eastern limit.
24.
Carex scabrata, Schweinitz.
Wayne, Garber; Carbon; Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Philadelphia, on the Wissahickon, C. E. Smith and Dr, Jos.
Leidy; Lancaster; Franklin; Sullivan, C. E. Smith; Blair, Lowrie.
Along shaded rivulets, csj^ecially in the mountains.
Not common.
25.
Carex vestita, Willd.
Northampton, Pen Argyl ; Bucks, BristolyDiffenbaugh, (Moyer's Cat.
); Lancaster, Smithville Swamp; Clearfield, McMinn; Cameron, McMinn.
Rare.
26.
Carex filiformis, L. Wayne, Garber ; Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Erie, Presque Isle, Garber, Guttenburg.
Rare.
27.
Carex filiformis, L., var.
latifolia, Boeckeler,( C.
?a/mymosa,Michx.)
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.)
; Berks ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Elk, McMinn.
28.
Carex trichocarpa, Mulil.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Lancaster; Franklin; Centre, ^oecHwy; Elk, Jibilfmn.
29.
Carex riparia, W. Curtis.
(C lacmtris, Willd.)
Wayne, Garher ; Bucks, Garber ; Delaware, Tiiiicum, J.. ^.
Smith ; TiOGA, Garher ; Elk, 3fc3Iinn.
Rare.
30.
Carex Buxbaumii, Wahl.
Lehigh, near Mountainville ; Bucks ; Lancaster ; Franklin.
Rare.
31.
Carex vulgaris, Fries.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Centre, McMinn.
Very rare.
Its southern limit.
32.
Carex aquatilis, Wahl.
Erie, Presque Isle, Guttenherg.
33.
Carex stricta, Lamarck.
Wayne, Garber ; Monroe ; Northampton ; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
); Berks, Garber; Lancaster; Franklin; Elk, J/cMnw.
Very common and variable ; growing in marshy places in tussocks, 34.
Carex aperta, Boott.
Bucks, Moyer, Fretz ; Lycoming, A. H. Smith, McMinn.
Rare.
35.
Carex torta, Boott.
Northampton, i^ioi ; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks; Chester, Canby; Franklin; Perry-, Garher; Sullivan, on the Loyalsock, C. E. Smith; Huntingdon; Blair, Burgoon's Gap ; Clearfield, Sandy Lick, McMinn ; Elk, McMinn.
Along the margins and often in the beds of rivulets, in shaded, rocky ravines.
Sometimes the fertile spikes are much crowded and much branched (var.
composita, Porter), giving the plant a singular appearance, as if, to use the phrase of Mr. Canby, it had "run mad."
36.
Carex prasina, Wahl.
( C. miliacea, Muhl.)
Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Philadelphia, Dr. J. Leidy ; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
); Berks, Dr. J. P. Hiester; Lancaster ; Sullivan, A, H. Smith ; Elk, McMinn.
37.
Carex crinita, Lamarck.
Monroe ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster ; Elk, McMinn.
38.
Carex crinita, Lam., var.
gynandra, Schw.
and Torr, Wayne, Garher; Lackawanna; Luzerne, Garber; Monroe, Pocono; Schuylkill; Northampton, Seidersville, i?.
G.Bechdolt; Chester, Landenberg, Canhy ; Tioga, Garher ; Clearfield, McMinn ; Armstrong, Garher.
Common in the mountains, but rare elsewhere.
39.
Carex Magellanica, Lamarck.
( C. irrigua, Smith.)
Monroe, on the Tuukhannock, Z)?\ Traill Green, June, 1861.
Very rare.
Its southern limit.
Since found (in 1886) in the same neighborhood, by Prof. Dudley, who writes, "The unusually obtuse perigynia more resemble those of the Fuegian specimens figured by Boott than those of any other specimens or figures I have access to."
40.
Carex limosa, L. Wayne, Garher ; Monroe, Pocono ; Tioga, Garher ; Bucks, Sellersville, Moyer.
Rare.
Chiefly in sphagnous bogs on the mountain-plateaus.
41.
Carex virescens, Muhl.
Monroe, Knipe; Northampton, around Easton ; Bucks, Fretz; Philadelphia, Diffenbaugh ; Delaware, A. H. Smith; Montgomery, Diffenhaugh ; Lancaster ; Franklin.
Common.
42.
Carex triceps, Michx.
Northampton; Bucks; Philadelphia; Delaware, Tinicum ; A. H. Smith; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster; Franklin; Lycoming, A. H. Smith; Tioga, Garher; Blair, Boecking.
A common and variable species.
43.
Carex Smithii, Porter.
(Olney, Exsicc, fasc.
l,no.
28.)
Glabrous, except the sheaths of the narrowly-linear leaves ; culms slender, erect, 1 to 2 feet high ; fertile spikes 2 to 4, short-cylindrical, nearly sessile, approximate ; ijerigjoiia globular, contracted to a manifest point, crowded but not imbricated, smooth, a little longer than the ovate, brownish, mucronate scales ; akenes broadlypyriform, with very short, abrupt, inflexed tips.
Chester; Delaware, Tinicum and Pusey's Woods, A. H. Smith.
In shape and appearance, the spikes, perigynia and akenes, and the olive-green hue of the plant, at fir.st sight, suggest C. granularis rather than C. triceps.
It is named in honor of Mr. Aubrey H. Smith of Philadelphia.
Just beyond our borders, Mr. Canby reports it as "very common in fields and woodlands around Wilmington, Delaware," and specimens from Gloucester, N. J. were sent me by the late Chas.
F. Parker.
It is certainly a well-marked variety, if not a distinct species.
44.
Carex longirostris, Torrey, Lycoming, near Williamsport, McMiim; Monroe, Water Gap, Xiii/^e; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks, (rarJer.
Rare and local.
Its southern limit.
45.
Carex arctata, Boott.
Monroe, Pocono, Dr. Traill Green; Sullivan, Chas.
E. Smith; 'Bi.AiR, Boeckijig ; Elk, McMinn.
Rare.
Its southern limit.
46.
Carex debilis, Michx.
Monroe, Pocono ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Delaware, A. H. Smith; Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster, Smithville Swamp ; Centre, Bear Meadows, Lowrie ; Huntingdon; Bl,aib., Boecking ; Clearfield, ilfcJfmvi ; Mercer, Garber.
47.
Carex debilis, Michx., var.
pubera, Gray.
Centre, Bear Meadows, Lowrie ; Lancaster, Smithville Swamp.
Very rare and local.
48.
Carex aestivalis, M. A. Curtis.
Chester.
(Fl.
Cestr.
); Lackawanna, Carbondale, Garber; Sullivan, C. E. Smith ; Tioga, Garber.
Rare.
49.
Carex gracillima, Schweinitz.
Lehigh, Garber; Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Blair, Boeching.
Common.
50.
Carex Davisii, Schw.
& Torr.
Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster ; Franklin, Mercersburg.
Rare.
51.
Carex grisea, Wahl.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton, Easton ; Buck.s, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster ; Franklin .
Blair ; Allegheny, Knipe.
Common.
52.
Carex glaucodea, Tuckerman.
Northampton, Easton, Pen Argyl, Bethlehem, Fiot ; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks, marshes near Quakertown ; Delaware, Pusey's Woods, A. H. Smith; Lancaster; Lycoming, McMinn.
I first met with this species in a swamp near Smithville, Lancaster County, in 1863.
It struck me at once as new, and specimens, name and distinctive characters were sent to Col. Olney, who informed me that it had also been discovered near Amherst, Mass., and that Prof. Tuckerman had just described it and his description would soon appear in the Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Since then, it has been found at a number of stations in Eastern Pennsylvania and the neighboring States.
In 1880, I collected it on the summit of Roane Mtn., N. C. 53.
Carex granularis, Muhl.
Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Chester, (Fl.
Cestr.)
; 6 Lancaster ; Franklin, Mercersburg.
Common.
54.
Carex granularis, Muhl, var.
Haleana, (C. Haleana, Oluey.
Exsiccat.
fasc.
iii, no.
14.)
Glabrous ; leaves broad and very glaucous ; culms and peduncles slender and weak ; fertile spikes much smaller and shorter ; perigynia less than half the usual size, rather narrowly ovoid, not globular.
Northampton, near Easton ; Lancaster, Smithville Swamp ; Allegheny, Knipe.
Outside of our limits, it has been collected at Madison, Wise, by T. J. Hale, and in Montgomery County, Va., by Dr. Joseph Leidy.
55.
Carex flava, L. Crawford, Conneaut Lake, Garber.
The only station known.
56.
Carex CEderi, Retz.
Erie, Pi'esque Isle, Garber.
The only station known.
57.
Carex pallescens, L. Wayne, Garber ; Lackawanna, Carbondale, Garber ; Clinton, McMinn.
Rare.
The southern limit of the species.
58.
Carex Torreyi, Tuckerman.
Specimens of this rare species are reported as existing in European herbaria, collected by Schweinitz near Bethlehem, Penna., and named by him C. abbreviata.
This may be correct, but among his plants, no^y in possession of the Philadelphia Academy, there is a sheet, at the top of which he has written " Carex lanosa abbreviata" and at the bottom, " Bethlehem."
The eight or ten specimens on the sheet, fastened down with paper-strips, are all C. vestita, Willd.
Although sought for in his old haunts, C. Torreyi has not yet been rediscovered.
59.
Carex conoidea, Schkuhr.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton ; Bucks ; Delaware, Canby ; Berks, near Reading; Lancaster; Franklin; Lycoming, McMinn.
60.
Carex oligoearpa, Schkuhr.
Northampton, Easton ; Bucks, Sellersville, Fretz ; Lancaster, on the Conestoga.
Rare.
The specimens of Dr. Fretz exactly agree with those of Dr. Sartwell from Penn Yan, W. N. York, and I cannot see in them any likeness to the southern narrow-leaved variety of C. grisea, to Avhich they have been referred.
61.
Carex Hitchcockiana, Dewey.
Northampton, Easton ; Lancaster ; Allegheny, Knipe.
Rare.
62 Carex laxiflora, Lamarck.
Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Lancaster ; Blair, Lowrie.
63.
Carex laxiflora, Lam., var.
styloflexa, Boott.
Leiiigh, Garber ; Northampton, Bethlehem; Bucks, Garber; Berks, NeversinkMtn.
; Delaware, Tinicum, A. H. Smith.
Rare.
64.
Carex laxiflora, Lam., var.
patulifolia, Carey.
Monroe, Water Gaj^, Knipe; Northampton; Lancaster; Huntingdon ; Allegheny, Knipe.
65.
Carex laxiflora, Lam., va7'.
intermedia, Boott.
Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Franklin, Luzerne, Oarber ; Lycoming, McMinn; Mercer, Garber.
66.
Carex laxiflora, Lam., var.
striatula, Carey.
Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Delaware, Diffenbaugh; Lancaster.
67.
Carex laxiflora, Lam., var.
latifolia, Boott.
Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks ; Lancaster ; Ali .egiieny, Garber.
68.
Carex retrocurva, Dewey.
Northampton; Bucks, Jfoyer; Lancaster; Franklin ; Centre, Boecking.
Rare.
69.
Carex digitalis, Willd.
Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Delaware, Dr. G. Smith; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
); Lancaster; Tioga, Garber; Clearfield and Elk, McMinn.
70.
Carex platyphylla, Carey.
Monroe, Water Gap, Kidpe ; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks; Chester, Black Rock Tunnel, Diffenbaugh ; Lancaster ; SulliLiVAN, C. E. Smith; Centre, Boecking; Allegheny, Knipe.
Rare.
The C. platyphylla of Darlington's Flora Cestrica is probably C laxiflora, Lam.
71.
Carex Careyana, Torrey.
Allegheny, Knipe.
From one station only.
72.
Carex plantaginea, Lamarck.
^ Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks ; Chester, near Phoenixville, Martindale; Sullivan, on the Loyalsock, C. E. Smith; Blair, Lowrie; Clearfield, McMinn ; Allegheny, Knipe.
Rare and local.
73.
Carex polymorpha, Muhl.
Monroe, Pocono ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Lancaster, Smithville Swamp ; Clinton, McMinn.
Rare and local.
74.
Carex tetaniea, Schkuhr.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton, Easton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Lancaster ; Franklin.
75.
Carex tetanica, Sclikuhr, var.
Canbyi.
( C. panicea, L., var.
Canhyi, Oluey, Exsicc.
fasc.
ii, nos.
24 and 25.)
Taller, erect and more robust than the type.
The fertile spikes and perigynia larger.
In the last edition of Gray's Manual, it is placed under C. panicea, L., but Mr Bailey makes it identical with C. Meadii, Dew., from which it differs in its blunt scales and habit of growth.
76.
Carex tetanica, Schkuhr, var.
Carter!.
Lancaster, New Texas, J. J. Carter, June, 1862.
Glabrous, 15 to 20 inches high ; stamiuate spikes on shorter stalks ; pistillate spikes 2 to 3, oblong, erect, all staminate at the apex ; lower bract equalling the culm ; perigynia ovoid, obtuse, straight or straightly curved above, not pointed, twice the length of the blunt scales.
Named for the discoverer.
77.
Carex Meadii, Dewey.
Bucks, Dr.
I.
8.
Moyer.
Very rare.
It exactly accords with Western specimens received from Dr. Mead and Mr. Bebb.
78.
Carex Crawei, Dewey.
Clinton, McMinn.
The only station known.
79.
Carex aurea, Nutt., var.
androgyna, Olney.
Erie, Presque Isle, Garher.T\iQ only station known.
80.
Carex eburnea, Boott.
Northampton, near Easton.
On shaded limestone rocks ; in dense mats, and abundant.
The only station known.
81.
Carex pedunculata, Muhl.
Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Berks, Dr. J. P. Hiester ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Sullivan, C. E. Smith ; Jefferson, McMinn ; Erie, Presque Isle, Guttenherg.
Pare.
82.
Carex Pennsylvanica, Lamarck.
Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
); Lancaster ; Clearfield, Sandy Ridge, McMinn.
Far less common than the next species.
In the specimens of Mr. Mc Minn, the leaves are from 22 to 3 lines wide, and the scales and perigynia deep chestnut-brown.
83.
Carex varia, Muhl.
Monroe; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Berks, Di^e/iJati^'/i,; Schuylkill; Lancaster; Franklin; Sullivan, C. E. Smith; Blair, Lorvrie ; Clearfield, McMbin.
84.
Carex Emmonsii, Dewey.
Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Philadelphia; LanCASTER ; Allegheny, Knipe.
85.
Carex nigro-marginata, Schweinitz.
Northampton, Seidersville, R. G. Bechdolt : Bucks, J.
A. and H. F. Ruth.
Rare and local.
6.
Carex umbellata, Schkuhr.
Northampton ; Bucks ; Carbon, Garber ; Lycoming, A. H. Smith; Philadelphia, Manayunk, C. E. Smith; Lancaster, duckies.
On dry rocks and hillsides.
Not common.
87.
Carex pubescens, Muhl.
Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Delaware, Dr. G. Smith ; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Berks, Dr. J. P.Hiester ; Lancaster; Clearfield and Elk, McMinn.
88.
Carex Willdenovii, 8chkuhr.
Northampton ; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks ; Lancaster ; Lycoming, A. H. Smith.
Rare.
89.
Carex Steudelii, Kuuth.
Lancaster, on the Conestoga ; Dauphin, near Harrishurg, Garber ; Allegheny, Knipe.
Rare.
90.
Carex polytriclioides, Muhl.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton ; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Sullivan, C. E. Smith ; Huntingdon.
Common, in wet meadows.
91.
Carex chordorhiza, Ehrhart.
Tioga, Marsh Farm, near Wellsborough, Garber, 1869.
Very rare.
The only station known.
Its southern limit.
92.
Carex conjuncta, Boott.
Philadelphia, on the Schuylkill, Canby.
No other station known.
93.
Carex stipata, Muhl.
Wayne, (^ar6er; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Philadelphia, Diffeiibaugh; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
); Lancaster; Sullivan, C. E. Smith ; Centre, Boecking ; Huntingdon ; Allegheny, Knipe.
One of our most common and abundant species.
94.
Carex teretiusoula, Gooden.
Tioga and Crawford, Garber.
Rare.
95.
Carex teretiusoula, Gooden., var.
ramosa, Boott.
Lancaster, Dillerville Swamp ; Centre, Boecking.
Rare.
96.
Carex vulpinoidea, Michx.
Northampton , Bucks ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Tioga, Garber; Huntingdon; Blair.
Exceedingly common and very variable.
97.
Carex alopecoidea, Tiickerman.
Clearfield and Elk, McMinn, 1868.
Very rare.
98.
Carex disticha, Hudson.
Erie, Presqiie Isle, Garber.
No other station known.
99.
Carex tenella, Schkuhr.
Tioga, Garber; Elk, McMinn.
Probably not infrequent in high mountain-bogs, along our northern border.
100.
Carex rosea, Schkuhr.
Monroe, Knipe ; Northampton, Easton ; Lancaster ; Franklin.
101.
Carex rosea, Schk., var.
radiata, Dewey.
Wayne, Garber ; Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Clearfield, McMimi.
Common.
102.
Carex rosea, Schk., var.
retroflexa, Torrey.
Wayne, Garber; Northampton, Easton; Lancaster.
Rare.
103.
Carex sparganioides, Muhl.
Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Philadelphia, Diffenbatigh; Lancaster; Franklin; Allegheny, Kiiipe.
104.
Carex Muhlenbergii, Schkuhr.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Northampton, Easton, Seidersville, Bechdolt; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
); Franklin; Huntingdon, Lotvrie; Lycoming and Clearfield, McMinn; Allegheny, Knipe.
105.
Carex Muhlenbergii, Schk., var.
enervis, Boott.
Philadelphia, Woodlands, Canby.
Very rare.
106.
Carex cephalophora, Muhl.
Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Northampton; Bucks; Philadelphia, Leidy; Lancaster; Franklin; Clearfield and Elk, McMinn.
107.
Carex cephalophora, Muhl., var.
angustifolia, Boott.
Erie, Presque Isle, Garber.
108.
Carex echinata, Murray, (C. stellulata, Gooden.
), var.
conferta, Bailey.
Wayne, Garber; Schuylkill, Broad Mtn.
; Lycoming, McMinn; Lancaster, New Texas, J. J. Carter.
109.
Carex echinata, Murr., var.
microstachys, Boeckeler.
Monroe, Water Gap; Knipe; Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.
); Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
); Berks, near Reading; Lancaster.
110.
Carex canescens, L. Wayne, Garber; Monroe, Poeono; Schuylkill; Sullivan, Lake Mtn., A. H. Smith; Jefferson, McMinn.
Peat-bogs, in the mountains.
HI.
Carex canescens, L., var.
alpicola, Wahl.
Monroe, Pocono, Dr. Traill Green; Wayne, Garber; Centre, Bear meadows, Lowrie.
Rarer than the type.
112.
Carex trisperma, Dewey.
Wayne, Garber; Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Schuylkill; Sullivan, C. E. Smith.
Frequent and abundant in mountain-bogs.
113.
Carex bromoides, Schkuhr.
Monroe, Tannersville, Garber; Northampton; Bucks, Moyer; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.
); Franklin; Sullivan, A. H. Smith; Huntingdon; Jefferson, McMinn.
114.
Carex Deweyana, Schweinitz.
Sullivan, C. E. and A. H. Smith; Erie, Presque Isle, Garber.
Very rare.
115.
Carex siccata, Dewey.
Northampton, Bethlehem, Fiot.
The only station known.
116.
Carex tribuloides, Wahl.
(C lagopodioides.
Sclik.
); Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster; Tioga, Garber; Huntingdon; Blair, Lowrie.
Common.
117.
Carex tribuloides, Wahl., var.
cristata, Bailey.
Northampton; Lancaster; Lycoming, McMinn; Huntingdon.
Scarcer than the type.
118.
Carex scoparia, Schkuhr.
Monroe, Pocono; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Lancaster; Blair, Boecking; Allegheny, Knipe.
Very common.
119.
Carex adusta, Boott.
Monroe, Pocono; Lackawanna, Carbondale, Garber; Northampton, Easton; Bucks,Moyer; Venango, East Sandy Creek, Garber.
Rare.
120.
Carex straminea, Schkuhr.
Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.)
; Chester, (F1.
Cestr.)
; Lancaster; Franklin; Blair; Clearfield, McMinn.
Very variable.
121.
Carex straminea, Schk., var.
aperta, Boott.
Lycoming, A. H. Smith; Elk, McMinn.
Rare.
122.
Carex alata, Torrey.
Monroe, Pocono Summit, on the D. and L. R. R. Not known elsewhere.
Two more species have been assigned to our flora, but they lack confirmation.
Mr. Bailey, in his Synopsis, makes the range of C. gynocrates extend into Pennsylvania, without mention of any station or collector.
It may be looked for in the northern tier of counties along the N. York line.
Muhlenberg, in his Descriptio uberior Gi-ami,num etc., p. 265. under C. lagopus ?, which is C. Fraseri, Andrews, adds these words, "Habitat in Tyger-Valley Pemisylvaniae, unde siccam habeo et vivam."
Kin, the German gardener who collected in S. W. Pennsylvania, brought it home and his label reads thus, " Deigher Walli in der Wilternus."
Dr. Gray has shrewdly conjectured that by "Deigher Walli," or Tyger Valley, is meant Tygart's Valley, which lies further south, in Virginia.
When the late Dr. Garber visited Fayette and Greene counties, in the service of the College, he made, by my direction, particular inquiry after a valley of that name, but no one had heard of it Yet he discovered there, on our side of Mason and Dixon's line, Aristolochia Sipho, and, a little further north, in the same range, occurs Pyrvlaria oleifera, so that it is not at all unlikely, that, some day, this rare and most singular Car ex will be found lurking in one of the lateral valleys or ravines along the western slope of Chestnut Hill.-^ The list above given comprises 98 species and 24 varieties,-a goodly number, which may be increased somewhat.
The sending to him of any new or rare species, or specimens of those more common, from the counties not thoroughly explored, will be accounted by the author as a special favor, and duly acknowledged.
The following European species have been collected by Mr. Isaac Burk on the ballast-grounds at Philadelphia C. Davalliana, Lam., C. distans, L ; C. hirta, L. and C. ornithopoda, With.
Easton, Penna., March 4th., 1887.
* A box containing the Carices of Muhlenberg has just been discovered in the Herbarium of the Academy, Philadelphia, and the label attached to the specimens of Kin's collection places Tyger Valley "prope amnem JCenakway.^' MARCH 29.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-seven persons present.
The death of Pierre Munzinger, a member was announced.
The following were elected members : William P. Wilson, Kichard B. Westbrook, Albert W. Vail, George O. Praetoriiis and William Blasius.
Prof W. K. Brooks of Baltimore was elected a correspondent: The following was ordered to be printed : THE SUMMIT PLATES IN BLASTOIDS, CEINOIDS, AND CYSTIDS, AND THEIR MORPHOLOGICAL RELATIONS.
BY CHARLES WACHSMUTH AND FRANK SPRINGER.
Messrs. Robert Etheridge Jan. and Dr. P. Herbert Carpenter, have recently published, under the auspices of the Trustees of the British Museum, a most important and valuable contribution to palaeontological research, in the form of a memoir, which is in effect a Monograpli of the British Blastoids.
* The work is marked by a thoroughness and wealth of illustration, characteristic of the scientific publications on special subjects issued under the patronage of the British Goverment, which makes us wish that the facilities offered by our own government in that direction might be a little more extensive.
The high reputation of the authors is such an ample guarantee of scientific excellence in the execution of the work, that it is scarcely necessary to do more than allude to the fact of its appearence.
The points as to which we should venture to differ with the authors are but few; upon these, however, we regret we find ourselves materially at variance with their views.
The whole of chapter IV, from p. 66 to 74 inclusive, is devoted to a discussion of the summit plates and their morphological relations.
The authors undertake to prove that while the summit plates in the Blastoids do not present, as a rule, any very definite arrangement (p. 118), yet they exhibit a series of variations in number and position, in some degree corresponding with a similar but more extensive series of variations among the Palaeocrinoidea; that both exhibit a transition from five closely united plates fully covering the summit, to a set of six proximal plates surrounding a central one.
The six proximal plates are held by them to be the homologues of the five oral plates of the xsTeocrinoidea a theory to which the division of the proximals into six or more has always interposed a very serious difficulty.
If such a transition from five closely fitted plates to six or more around another could be established, of course its tendency would be to diminish the diffi*Catalogue of the Blastoidea in the Geological Department of the British Museum (Natural History), with an Account of the Morphology and Systematic Position of the Group, and a Revision of the Genera and Species, By Robert Etheridge Jun.
and P. Herbert Carpenter, D. Sc, F. R. S., P. L. S.-4 to.-Pp.
IXVI, 1-322; 20 plates.
London.
Printed by order of the Trustees, 1886. culty; but it remains to be seen how far the authors have succeeded in proving it.
A covering of the summit openings in various genera has been described by several writers.
This has been generally considered as representing the same structure in all these genera ; whereas there is to be found among the coverings, thus described, two distinct structures, which are totally different from each other, and are characteristic, so far as observed, of distinct groups of the Blastoidea.
The first of these of which any detailed account has been attempted, was observed by Roemer in 1851, in Elaeacrinus Verneuili,^ which he described as having the summit plates closed by a hexagonal central plate, surrounded by six others, four of equal size and two smaller.
Shortly afterwards Shumard/ in describing his new species Pentremites Sayi, stated that "the central opening is closed by minute, usually pentagonal and hexagonal plates, arranged in a manner somewhat similar to those of Pentremites (Elaeacrinus) Ver)ieuill," and he added in a note: "the same structure occurs in Pentremites Norwoodi and P. melo Owen and Shumard, of which I have fully satisfied myself from an attentive examination of many specimens."
In 1863, Dr. White, in a jjaper on the summit structure of Pentremites, ^ confirmed the observations of Shumard as to Pentremites Norivoodi, and stated that in this species the whole central space between the summit tubes and the anal aperture "is overlaid with an integument of microscopic plates, entirely covering the central aperture, passing out between the bases of the tubes in a double series of plates, and was evidently continued far down the central grooves of the pseudambulacral fields."
He also discovered in P. stelliforynis^ a, covering of the central summit aperture "essentially the same as in P. Norwoodii," and he described it as consisting of "five small plates, arranged like a five pointed star, with the points touching each of the u})per ends of the interradial plates, thus completely covering the summit aperture."
Figures of tlie summit plates of Granatocrinus Norwoodi and Orophocrinus (Codonites) stelUformis were subsequently published by Meek and Worthen, * confirming the observations of Shumard and *Archiv f.
Naturgesch., 1851.
Jahrg.
XVII, p. 378.
1 Palaeontology, in Swallow's Geol.
Surv.
Mo.
1855, p. 186.
Bost.
Journ.
Nat.
Hi.st.
1863, Vol.
VII, No.
4, p. 484.
* ILid.
p. 487.
* lllinoi.s Geol.
Rep., Vol.
V. PI.
IV, figs.
2a, 5.
White; and we ^ in 1881 gave a figure of the sunwnit covering in Schizoblashis ( Granatocrinus) Sayi.
In 1858, Shumard " described what he took to be a somewhat similar covering in a sjiecimen of Pentremites conoideus, which he figured and described as having the central stelliform space (mouth) "perfectly closed by six small, microscopic plates, a central one of a pentangular form surrounded by five smaller pentagonal pieces, which unite with the edges of the aperture and form a little dome.
The five ovarial openings are each, in like manner, closed, as represented in the figure by six minute polygonal plates, so arranged as to form a little elevation."
Shumard's description of P. conoideus was endorsed by Billings^ who copied his figure, but modified it by adding a small pore at each of the five angles, through which, as he thought, the ambulacra entered the interior.
The fact of the closure of the summit ojiening in the above mentioned species, and in Pentremites generally, has on the other hand been denied by Dr. Hambach,^ who states that the central opening "was never closed by additional plates, as intimated by some authors (Billings and Shumard), although specimens are frequently found (and I have some in my collection) where it appears as if the summit were closed by additional plates, which, on close examination, however, prove to be Bryozoa or ovulum-like bodies."
In a subsequent paper he ^ says that Shumard's original specimen of P. Sayi, which was figured in the Missouri Report, "proves to have only a covering of minute calc-spar crystals on the summit, leavings of the surrounding luatrix, which could easily be removed by applying a moist camel's hair brush to them;" and he adds "my specimens which shoAV such a covering * * * prove that the covering consists only of fragments of broken up pinnulae which were washed into the ambulacral furrows and remained there."
As to Hambach's general statement that the central opening was never closed by additional plates, he has undoubtedly been misled by the condition of his specimens.
We are certain that if he were to examine the numerous specimens in our collection of Schizohlastus Sayi, Granatocrinus Norwoodi, G. melo, OropJiocrinus stelliformis, 5 Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea Pt.
II, PI.
XIX, fig.
3.
6 Trans.
St. Louis, Acad.
Sci.
1858, Vol, I No.
2, p. 243.
J Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
1869, Vol.
XLVIII, p. 82.
2 Trans.
St. Louis, Acad, Sci., 1880, Vol.
IV, p. 150.
3 Tr.ins.
St. Louis, Acad., Sci., 1884, Vol.
IV No.
3, p. -540.
0. conicus, 0. fusiforviis, an undescribed Mesoblastus from New Mexico to say nothing of Elaeacrinus from various localities, and of three different species all having the central opening perfectly closed by plates, he would come to a different conclusion.
We have found Schizoblastus Sayi in especially good preservation, with summit plates firmly attached and unincumbered by deposition of fragments of any kind.
It is by no means rare to find specimens of this species, in which the summit plates and portions of the covering pieces are in place.
They may be seen in several collections in Bui'lington, and these parts may be vigorously brushed with the stifiest bristles with entire safety.
The same may be said of all the above named species, and there can be no sort of question that a plated covering does actually exist in all of them.
With regard to the type specimen of Pentremites conoideus, however, we are fully convinced that Hambach is right, and that his definition of the so called plates described and figured by Shumard as covering the center and ovarial openings, as "ovulum-like bodies," for which he was somewhat sharply ridiculed by Dr Carpenter ^ is a perfectly correct statement.
The species occurs abundantly at Spurgen Hill, lud.
in a friable, light-colored oolitic limestone, which is composed almost entirely of minute organisms, small bivalves, Gasteropods, etc., and these are interspersed profusely with small egg-shaped bodies of almost uniform size.
Nearly every specimen of Pentremites from that locality has some of these bodies exposed at the openings, but we find nowhere any regularity in their arrangement, and they are seen equally plain in much worn and weathered specimens.
Promj^ted by a strong desire to examine Shumard's type, the specimen from which his figui*e was made, we applied to Dr. Hambach for the loan of it from the Museum of the Washington University at St. Louis, and he forwarded it to us with a promptitude and courtesy, for which he has our warmest thanks.
The specimen is very interesting, and shows clearly that Shumard's figure is a fiction The center appears to be closed, and also the spiracles, not by plates, but by foreign particles such as we have described above.
The specimen has the appearance of considerable weathering ; none of the outlines are sharp, and the spiracles, which in good specimens are markedly angular, are here almost round.
In one of the spiracles only, the arrangement of the particles appears somewhat like Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Ser.
5, Vol.
VI T I., 1881, p. 422.
Shumarcl's figure.
At a hasty glance there seem to be six pieces, a central one surrounded by five others ; but when examined under a strong magnifier there appear two pieces in the center, and six surrounding them.
From this one spiracle, the arrangement of the supposed plates in all the other openings was probably inferred, and the figure made accordingly; for the arrangement of the socalled plates at thefour other openings is altogether different, and very irregular.
So we find at the anal opening a good sized Gasteropod beside other pieces.
The central opening is covered by a single, comparatively large, elongate body, ovoid in form, which does not actually close the opening, but rests inside of it, beneath the level of the deltoids, slightly touching them.
Its position is such that if it represented the summit structure, the food grooves could not have entered the peristome This is also one of those foreign bodies to which we alluded, but its surface is too much worn to say much about it.
Etheridge and Carpenter ^ express some doubt of the correctness of Shumard's description as to the plates covering the spiracles, although they take Hambach to task (pp.
68, 164) for disputing the same description as to the covering of the central opening.
They allude, however, to White's discovery of a plated integument over the anal opening in Orophocrinus stelliformis, which we are able to confirm.
This covering we have found well preserved, not only in 0. stelliformis, but also in two new species which we described for Vol.
VIII.
of the Illinois Report now in preparation.
In all cases where we found this structure intact, it lies below the level of the deltoid through which the aperture penetrates, and is composed of a large number of small, irregular pieces without any visible opening.
We do not mean to say that the peristome and spiracles were not covered by plates in P. conoideus, but we do assert that there was no such covering as figured by Shumard.
Even in the shape of the spiracles his figure is totally erroneous.
He represents them as very regularly pentangular, so as to receive the five supposed plates neatly filling the angles, and as surrounding a central one, one of their sides facing the central opening instead of an angle.
The fact is, however, the spiracles are not pentangular but quadrangular, somewhat unequally diamond-shaped with sides slightly curving, the outer angle obtuse, conforming to, and in fact formed by, the slope of the side ^ Catalogue of the Blastoidea, p. 69 pieces of adjacent ambulacra.
The opposite angle toward the centre is acute, and is occupied by a shallow groove which projects in form of a lip toward the center.
This form of the oj^ening is remarkably constant in all the si^ecimens of this species, and is characteristic not only of the genus Pentremites but also of Pe)itreviltidea.
That in Pentremites a considerable portion of the spiracles was closed by plates of some kind, we think quite probable, but the structure was certainly very different from that described by Shumard.
In 1850, Owen and Shumard ' discovered a peculiar summit structure in Pentremites in a specimen of P. Godoni, which they described as a "conical covering of small plates."
In 1858 Shumard^ observed a similar structure in P. sidcatus, of which he gave the following account.
"In this fossil there rises from the center of the summit a little pyramid with five salient and five retreating angles, the salient angles being directly opposite the extremities of the interradial pieces, while the retreating angles correspond to the center of the pseudo-ambulacral fields.
The base of this little pyramid is joined to the superior edges of the pseudo-ambulacral fields so as to completely roof in the buccal and ovarial apertures.
It consists of about fifty pieces, arranged in ten series ; the first or exterior ones in each series being of a triangular form, the others elongated quadrilateral.
Two series of pieces stand over each ovarial aperture, those of one side uniting Avith their fellows of the opposite side at the salient angles of the pyramid."
No further attention was paid to this structure until 1884, when Hambach ^ proposed to amend Shumard's description by adding .
that this cone-shaped body "consists of little tubes running parallel with each other and roofing in the summit of the calyx in a conical shape (])ut not the central opening.)
They protude through the same apertures in which the hydrospires terminate ; there are about five of these tubes to each aperture, which seem to correspond witli the plicas of the hydrospiric sac."
He concludes that these tubes extend down into the interior of the calyx, and he takes them "to be the ovarian tubes."
We can confirm Haml)ach's observation as to the existence of elongate pieces having the external appearance of tubes placed side by side, though we do not concur in his inference of a connection 1 Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phil., Vol.
II.
Pt.
I, p. 65 2Trnns.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci., Vol.
I, No.
2, p. 244.
1 Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci.
1884,Vol.
II, No.
3, p. 541 with his so-called "ovarian tubes," for we have been unable to find any evidence that they pass into the calyx, or that they are longitudinally perforate.
We have been so fortunate as to obtain a large series of specimens exhibiting the structure under consideration in more or less perfection in several species, and we are thereby enabled to present a somewhat fuller description of its nature.
AVe have observed it in P. sulcatus in 2 specimens ; F. Godoni in 2 specimens ; P.pyriformis in 4 specimens ; P. elegans in 19 S23ecimens ; P. cervinus in 3 specimens ; and P. abbreviatus in 5 specimens, in all conditions of preservation.
It consists in most of them often series of pieces that is five double series, going out in salient angles toward the extremities of the interradial pieces (deltoids) while in other species the series seem to be composed of more than two ro\vs, and they are not so regularly arranged as in species with only two series.
The pieces are located at both sides of, and apparently Avithin, the so called spiracles.
They are, as clearly shown in perfect specimens, not plates but elongate, tfi^jering spines, closely packed together, comparatively robust, with a more or less obtusely quadrangular and sometimes, j^erhaps triangular section, usually curving a little at the tips toward the center.
They vary in length, the outer ones being the shortest, those toward the center the longest.
We have been unable to discover anything like transverse sutures or longitudinal perforations, and they probably consist of a single solid piece.
Although limited to the spiracles, their tips are generally drawn together so as to form a kind of roof over the central opening, while if standing erect they would leave a space in the middle.
The spines apparently have no connection whatever with the ambulacra ; the side pieces run out and disappear at the spiracles, forming in fact their outer border, and only the food grooves pass in between them to the peristome.
Whether the spines cover the spiracles directly, or rest upon independent plates, we cannot say positively, but we are inclined to think that the latter may be the case, and the plates bearing them are set in around the inner margin of the spiracles, so as to cover the greater })art of the opening, leaving perhaps a shallow channel passing toAvard the center over the lip which we have described above.
That the spines, or jilates bearing them, extended only over a part of the so-called spiracles, is strongly indicated by the condition of a very interesting specimen of the type of Pentremites symmetricus Hall, from Chester, 111., in which it seems as if the whole pyramid and the covering pieces along the ambulacra, at least near the mouth, were intact and in place when the animal was deposited.
It is enveloped in a fine grained silicious mud, fine enough to pass through the smallest opening, and to leave a cast of all cavities.
In this specimen there appears over the actinal center a small rounded knob, from which pass out radially, along the upper part of the food grooves, delicate string-like impressions of the inner part of the closed groove.
From the inner angles of the spiracles, and passing over the lip-like projections at those angles, are small elevated rounded ridges connecting with the central knob, while the other portion of the sj^iracle is depressed sufficiently to receive a good sized set of plates.
Considering that the parts comjDosed of this fine mud are the counterparts of open spaces as they existed when the specimen was imbedded all plates and spines being removed by disintegration after it weathered out of the matrix we may infer that there was at the inner angle of the so-called spiracle a small channel or opening, which probably served as the true spiracle, while the remainder of the aperture which in this view of the case would represent a 'mere break in the test was all covered.
At the posterior opening the mud mould occupies a larger space, indicating a larger opening ; otherwise we are not able from our specimens to give any sj)ecial account of the anal opening ; neither can we obsei've any special difference in the arrangement of the spines about the posterior opening from that of the others.
The shape and construction of the spiracles in Peiitremltidea is very similar to that of Peiitremites, and we should not be surprised to find its summit surmounted by a similar structure.
We fully agree Avith Etheridgeand Carpenter in placing these two genera in the same family, but we are not so sure as to Mesoblastus, which we think might be placed more appropriately with Sehizohlastm and Cryptohlastus.
The condition of the central opening in Pentremites cannot be accurately determined from any of our specimens, but we have distinctly seen that it is covered by several plates, independent of the roofing by spines.
The food grooves, which pass out between the spines at the retreating angles of the cone, are vaulted over by two rows of covering pieces which are alternately arranged.
These pieces close the central groove of the ambulacrum, whence they branch off" so as to cover also the lateral grooves toward the pinnules.
The plates cov7 ering tlie side grooves, which are arranged as regularly as those of the main grooves, have been traced by us as far as the fifth side pieces, but may have extended farther down.
In spite of their small size, the plates are very distinct in our specimens, those of the upper row resting closely against the spines.
Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter have given two figures showing the summit of Pentremites in two different conditions of preservation, both of them from specimens belonging to us.
The first figure of P. sidcatus, (PI.
I, fig.
8.
), gives a somewhat incorrect impression of the external appearance of the pyramid, owing to the fact that the spines composing it have been irregularly broken ofi* a little way above their bases, so that what there appear as plates are really the cross sections of the spines.
The fracture, however, is not regular, nor at right angles to the long dimension of the spines, so that the figure does not correctly represent either the real form of the cross sections, or their relative positions.
We may observe also that the figure does not give the central portions.
By applying a little aniline coloring matter we have been able to see the sutures indicating the broken ends of spines, but the fracture is so irregular that the arrangement cannot be distinguished.
In their other figure on PI, V, fig, 28., which gives a good idea of the form and character of the spines composing the pyramid, some of the pinnules are preserved overlapping the spines and resting upon them, showing in marked contrast the diflTerence between the two structures.
After quoting and commenting upon Shumard's and Hambach's 'descrijitions of the pyramid in P. sulcatus, and having before them the original sj)ecimens represented in the above mentioned figures, Etheridge and Carpenter ^ give their intrepretation of the facts as follows : " Mr. Wachsmuth has sent us a fine specimen, which may perhaps throw some light on this difficult question, (PI, I, fig.
8.)
The peristome and spiracles are almost completely covered by what seems to be the base of the little pyramid described by Shumard."
The upper part of the pyramid described by Shumard and Hambach "seems to us to be constructed by the proximal pinnules, as in the specimen represented on PI.
V, fig.
28.
In Mr. Wachsmuth's example of P. sulcatus, however, these proximal pinnules are not preserved, and the angles of the pyramid extend outwards towards the pointed ends of the visible parts of the deltoids.
At two of these angles there seem to be indications of a double series of plates above 1 Catalogue of the Blastoidea, p, 70. the spiracles."
They "have little doubt that this is fundamentally the same structure as was seen by both Shumard and Hambach."
According to the latter author, there are "about five" of the supposed tubes to each spiracle ; while Shumard says that two series of pieces stand over each opening, and except in the anal interradius this seems to be the condition of Mr. Wachsmuth's specimen also.
But we do not think that the pieces have the tubular nature which Hambach assigns to them ; for we doubt whether they are more than the proximal pinnules grouped around the peristome as shown in our PI.
V, fig.
28."
In their explanation of the plate, this figure is said to be a "radial view of a decorticated specimen, with the pinnules rising above into a kind of dome."
No allusion is made to any difference between the bundles of jointed pinnules which fall over the summit from each side, and the set of apparently rigid, erect and jointless appendages which are seen between them.
Nor do the authors anywhere in the text appear to recognize any such difference, although it is to us quite apparent, both in the figure and in the specimen which was before them.
After arriving at this as a probable interpretation of the structures observed by Shumard and Hambach and figured by themselves, and dissenting /rom Hambach's supposition, that the so-called tubes pass down into the interior of the calyx, they arrive at this further conclusion : "We are much more inclined to think that we have here to deal with an extension of the smaller system of summit plates, which occur in other Blastoids.
In Granatocrinus and Elaeacrinus only the peristome appears to be covered, (PI.
VII, figs, 4.
11.
13 ; PI.
XVIII, fig.
16), except perhaps for the anal aperture in G. Norwoodi; while Orophocri7ius and Stephanocrimis have a gronip of plates around the anal aperture (PL XIX, fig.
9).
In Peutremites conoideus the other four spiracles are perhaps also closed by plates ; and except in the larger size and abundance of the plates it is no o-reat advance from this condition to that which we have seen in Pentremites sulcatus (PI.
I, fig.
8.
), but we await further information."
The supposed closure of the spiracles by plates in Pentremites conoideus proves to be unsupported by the facts.
A correct understanding of the nature of the pyramid surmounting the vault in Pentremites sulcatus and allied species will, we think, fully demonstrate that this structure, which probably existed in all Pentremites, is a totallv different thing from the covering of the anus in Orojihocrinus, Stephanocrinus or Granatocrimis.
In the three latter types^ the so-called covering does not extend to the spiracles, but consists apparently of a sort of moveable plates, by means of which in various ways the anal aperture could temporarily be opened or closed as its functions required.
The views exjjressed by Etheridge and Carpenter that these spinelike pieces forming the pyramid are nothing but the proximal pinnules, cannot, in our opinion, be sustained by any of the evidence.
There are very serious objections to it : 1.
They consist of a single piece throughout their entire length, whereas pinnules are composed of small joints.
The specimens all show this distinction well, and it may be clearly seen in Etheridge and Carpenter's PI.
V, fig.
28.
2.
They have no ventral groove, and taper to a point ; while pinnules are nearly uniform throughout, and esj^ecially do not taper perceptibly from their bases.
3.
They are more robust than the pinnules in the same specimen, and shorter the pinnules jiassing beyond their tips.
4.
The best preserved specimens show that the pinnule sockets end at the spiracles where the two rows of adjoining ambulacra come together in a jioint.
The spines, however, seem to begin where the pinnules end, and extend from there inward, the oiusters widening toward the center so as to form the retreating angles at the base of the pyramid.
5.
The spines are interradial and inter ambulacral, and as such may belong to an interambulacral system, which perhaps is unrepresented in other groups of the Blastoids, but certainly form no part of the ambulacral system.
Whatever the spines in Pentremites may be, or represent morphologically, we think it will have to be conceded that they are not "proximal pinnules," and not comparable to the plates covering the anus of Orophocrinus, Stephanocrinus or Granatocrimis.
On page 73, Messrs. Etheridge and Car2:)enter attempt to establish a series of variations in the summit j^lates of the Blastoids, "similar to that which can be traced among the Palaeocrinoids.
The simplest form of summit which occurs in any Blastoid is that presented by Stephanocrinus.
The peristome is completely closed by the five triangular plates of the so-called proboscis."
They state that Hall, in his diagram of the structure of the summit in Elaeacrinus elegans ^ 1 15th.
Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist.
1862, p. 153. figures only five plates of equal size ; and they add : " These five plates of Stephanoerinus and Elaeacrinus have exactly the same relation to the peristome and ambulacra as the oral plates of a Neocrinoid, and we do not see how their mutual homology can well be disputed."
On page 74 they continue : "The difference between Elaeacrinus elegans ov Stephanocrlnus and .
Verneuili, as described by Roemer, is very much the same as that between Oulicocrinus and the simplest form of Platycrinus.
Stephanocrinus, like Oulicocrinus, has but five plates in the vault ; while in E. Verneuili there are at least seven, viz.
: one orocentral, four proximals of equal size, and two smaller ones on the anal side."
They allude to White's description of the summit of Orophocrinus stelliformis as consisting of five small plates etc., which they say is "'just as in Stephanocrinus and in Elaeacrinus elegans" though they add that their arrangement does not seem to be very constant.
On page 75, they speak of the summit of Granatocrinus Norwoodi varying in a similar manner, and of a "somewhat less regular arrangement" in Schizoblastus JSayi.
It thus appears that their conclusion that the plates of the vault in Blastoids "rarely exhibit any definite arrangement,"(p. 118) and that there is a series of variations in the summit plates of the Blastoids similar to, and to some extent parallel with, those which they assume to exist in l*alaeocrinoids, is based on the presence of five plates in Stephanocrinus ; the assumption of five plates in Elaeacrinus elegans and Oro])hocrinus stelliformis, in contrast with seven plates in E. Verneuili; and variability in the number and arrangement of plates in the summit of Granatocriyius Norwoodi and Schizoblastus Sayi.
It is somewhat unfortunate for the validity of this speculation that Stephanocrinus cuts so important a figure in it, as it has since been discovered to be not a Blastoid at all, but a brachiate Crinoid ; a fact,^ it is proper to say, which is noticed by the authors in their preface.
This genus, therefore, must be eliminated from among the premises on which the argument is built, and the "simplest form" must be looked for elsewhere.
Let us see how far the others will stand the test of examination.
Elaeacrinus elegans was described by Hall under Nucleocrinus, and in his specific description, and not simply in his generic diag1 Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea, Pt.
Ill, p. 282, etc.
M5tli, Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Ilist.
1862 .p.
147. nosis, as stated by Etlieridge and Carpenter he says the summit is "occupied by five or more small plates."
In the diagram, on page 153 of the work cited, the summit is rej^resented as divided into five equal and similar areas by the meeting of lines prolonged from the middle of the ambulacra.
It is apparent that no attempt was made to give the exact form or number of those plates.
They are not lettered as the other plates are, and no mention is made of them in the explanation of the figure ; nor does Hall anywhere seem to have attached sufiicient importance to the summit plates to give a description of their shape, position, arrangement, or relative size.
In order to satisfy ourselves as to what the real facts are, Ave aj)plied to Prof. R. P. Whitfield for the loan of the type specimen of E. elegans showing the summit plates, now in the collection of the American Museum of Natural History in New York City.
Prof. Whitfield, with his usual kindness, for which we are under renewed obligations to him, promptly sent us the original specimen from which fig.
14, of PI.
I, as well as the diagram on page 153 of the 15th Report was made; and in his letter transmitting it he says: "I fear you will not see clearly the arrangement of the platesThere are more than five jilates probably eight".
The italics are his.
By applying water, colored with aniline, and then moderately brushing the surface so as to remove the coloring matter excejit from the sutures, we were enabled to distinguish the presence of a central piece surrounded by seven others, four large and uniform, and three smaller ones at the posterior side (fig.
11.)
This gives a summit structure substantially the same as that of Elaeacrlnus Verneuili, (see Etheridge and Carpenter, Blast.
Cat.
p. 215).
We also applied to Dr. Barris for the loan of his specimens of Elaeacrinm obovatus, and these, together with our own, gave us eight specimens of this species, all having the summit in situ.
The four large proximals are readily recognized in most of them, but only a single specimen enabled us to distinguish all the plates as they are shown in fig.
12.
In four others, the suture line between the central plate and the small anal piece is seen as plainly as we could wish, but there is no trace of a suture toward the smaller proximals (fig.
18); while in the three remaining ones, including the largest specimen, it appears as if the summit consisted of only five plates (fig.
14.)
There is, however, no variation in the form and general outline ot the summit in any of these specimens.
The summit in all of them rests posteriorly between the two halves of the compound deltoid and against the intermediate large anal plate, and in all of them the loMer margin is perforated and occupied byone half of the anal aperture, thus showing that in this species also the summit consists primitively of eight pieces, of which the suture lines became partially obliterated.
In the type specimen of Elaeacrinus melonijormis, which Dr. Barris was kind enough to send us also, the arrangement of the summit plates is the same as in E. ohovatm, and Ave clearly distinguished the small anal jjlate.
It thus appears that in the known species of Elaeacrinns the summit plates consist of a central plate surrounded by six or more proximals, and that in no case do they consist of five primitive plates ; so that the "simplest form of summit" five plates only has not been found in Elaeacrinus.
The assumed parallelism of difiei'ences between E. elegans and E. Verneuili among tl\e Blastoids, and Gidicoeriuus and the simplest form of Platycrimis among the Crinoids, encounters a very serious interruption in consequence unless, indeed, it should turn out that there is a parallelism in these cases of an altogether different character from that contemplated by the English authors.
The summit of Orophocrimis stelUformis was stated by White ^ to consist of "five small plates arranged like a five-pointed star, with the points touching each of the upper ends of the interradial plates."
We do not doubt that Dr. White thought to observe such arrangement, but Ave think it very probable that the condition of his sjDecimen was such that he overlooked the central plate, Avhich may easily happen, as the sutures are often difiicult to observe.
In a large number of specimen?
Ave have never found a single one with the sunmiit com2:)osed of five jjlates only, or Avith a central plate surrounded by five jDroximals.
We found, however, that in specimens of this species, as Avell in Granatocrinus Nonvoodi and SchizohlastKS Sayi, Avhen the coA^ering plates are in place, they often partly overlap the summit plates, and in such cases the arrangement of the latter cannot be distinctly observed.
When the coA^ering pieces are absent, and the summit plates alone are intact, as in several of our specimens, the arrangement is quite regular.
We have made a careful examination of a large series of specimens, not only of 0. stelUformis but also of our new species 0. fusiformis and 0. conicus, in Avhich the summit plates are more frequently preserved.
In all of them there is a 1 Boston Journ.
Nat.
Hist.
1863, Vol.
VIII, No.
4, p. 4S7.
central plate, surrounded by others, either six or seven.
Even the original of Etheridge and Carpenter's figures 11 and 12 on PI.
XV, in our collection, upon the api^lication of coloring matter to bring out the sutures, proves to have a quite regular arrangement of the summit plates, which the artist who drew the figures failed to detect.
There are certainly not "five small plates," but a central plate surrounded by six proximals.
According to our observation, therefore, of the best preserved material known, the summit of 0. stelliformis does not represent the "simplest form," "just as in Stephanocrums."
There remains only to consider Grcmatocrinus Norwoodi and Schizoblastus Sayi, as to both of which we remark that there is often presented much apparent irregularity and variability in the arrangement of their summit plates.
But we find that this is due to the enci'oaciiment of the covering plates, which sometimes largely overlap them, as is well shown by Ether.
Carpenter's PL VII, figs.
11 and 13.
But in natural internal casts, in which we have the impressions of the inner surface of the jjlates, they appear larger and much more regularly arranged.
Among a lai'ge number of specimens we have failed to find a single example of a summit closed by only five plates; while in a large proportion of them we distinguished clearly a central plate surrounded by six or more proximals.
Whatever variations, however, of form and arrangement of summit plates may be found to exist in these two species, we feel warranted in asserting that the "simplest form" is not one of them.
On page 71, (Catal, of the Blastoidea), Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter say that "in 1877, Wachsmuth pointed out that a definite arrangement of plates is more or less traceable in the vault of many Palaeocrinoids.
There is a single central plate, wdth five or, more frequently, six others disposed interradially round it."
It would naturally be inferred from this remark and the context, not only ihixtjive proximals around a central plate is one recognized condition in the vault of many Palaeocrinoids, but also that Wachsmuth had so expressed himself: whereas the fact is he said nothing of the kind in the paper cited, but on tlie contrary spoke only of "7 apical plates" a central, four large, and two small ones; and this number, or a greater, has been insisted on by us as being the almost universal rule.
In seeking for a transition or variation in the summit plates of Palaeocrinoids, comparable to that which they assume to exist among the Blastoids, they take the young stage of Alhigecrinus (p. 72), as presenting "the simplest form of vault," i. e. five plates without any central ; and Haplocrinus next, with a central piece and five proximals, "neither AUagecrinus nor Haplocrinus having any calyx interradials."
Culieocrinus is cited as having five large summit plates resting on the calyx interradials, and without any central piece.
Then come Plati/crinus and the Actinocrinidae as exhihiting varying degrees of complexity, but having a central plate, which they call an "oro-central," surrounded by proximals.
In this case also, they base a large part of their argument upon premises which are by no means universally recognized, or are free from dispute.
We consider it far from being an established fact, that either AUagecrinus or Haplocrinus Culieocrinus will be considered later on are without calyx interradials.
As we have before stated, Etheridge and CarjDenter maintain, and it has been steadily insisted on by Dr. Carpenter since 1879, that the proximal plates, surrounding the central plate in Palaeocrinoids, their so-called "orocentral," represent the five orals of Neocrinoidea.
This involves the assunijjtion of a homology between a set of plates covering the actinal center, Avhich are five in all stages of the Neocrinoids in which they exist, and a set of plates which, when jjresent in Palaeocrinoids consist of six or more plates, which do not cover the actinal center, but which enclose another structui'e that does.
It is in order to get rid of some of these difficulties that the authors attach so great importance to the cases of AUagecrinus, Haplocrinus, Culieocrinus, Coccocrinus, and Stephanocrinus, in which they undertake to point out a series of five plates at the ventral side, as the rej)resentatives of six or more proximals in Palaeocrinoids generally, and which at the same time might be successfully homologized with the orals of the Neocrinoids.
In this connection they remark on page 73 : "Since the preceding paragraph was in type, we have received the latest publication of Messrs. Wachsmuth and Sj)ringer, according to whom the five plates which form the ventral pyramid of Stephanocrinus are 'calyx interradials,' and cannot therefore be homologous with the orals of a Neocrinoid.
In making this comparison Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer seem to have altogether overlooked the fact that Stephanocrinus has well developed calyx interradials, namely, the deltoids.
^ * * The American authors regard the deltoid pieces of the Blastoidea, and by implication thei'efore those of Stephanocrwus, as homologous with the large calyx interradials of the Cyathocrinidae, a view in which we entirely concur, as we have explained on p. 10.
But in applying this name to the five plates which form the ventral pyramid and cover the mouth of Stephanocrinus, and also of Haplocrinus and AUagecrinns, as they do in their latest publication, they seem to us to be going very mvich too far.
We regard the five summit plates of all three genera as truly homologous with the orals of the Pentacrinoid larva.
They cover the mouth and the origin of the ambulacra, just as the orals do in the Neocrinoid; and this relation is not characteristic of the calyx interradials in any Pehnatozoon whatever.
It is only in the Cyathocrinidae and in the Blastoids that these plates have any close relation to the mouth at all.
But they do not cover it and shut it oft' completely from the exterior as the summit plates of Stephanocrimis and AUagecrinus do."
We have been more than once charged by Dr. Carpenter with inaccurate statements as to his views, and in some cases w'ith reason as we have admitted; but we do not believe we have ever been chargeable with anything so completely unfounded as the foregoing criticism.
It is based entirely upon the single remark of ours on page 46 (Revision Palaeocr.
Pt.
Ill), that "the ventral pyramid in Haplocrinus and Coccocriuus is composed of interradials and not of orals, and the same may be said of Stephanocrinus.
"^^ This was written under the supposition, then entertained by all Palaeontologists, perhaps watli the exception only of Etheridge and Carpenter, whose interpretation will be quoted presently, that Stephanocrinus was constructed of only three ranges of plates, and we considered the third row, constituting the whole portion from the coronal processes inward, to be interradial plates.
Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter^ in 1888, interpreted all plates, in common with the deltoids of the Blastoids generally, and the interradials of the Cyathocrinidae, as orals, a view which they have since abandoned.
In the same paper p. 239 they mention five plates in the summit, composing, according to Hall, a central "proboscis," and say that they have "only seen this proboscis in one specimen," and regard it as "a vault of a few pieces covering in the peristome."
This shows clearly that they did not themselves at that time consider these *We even did not use the term "ca/yx interradials" in tiiat quotation, we simply spoke of the '^HnterradiahP 1 Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
Apr.
1883, pp.
225 to 246.
"proboscis" plates as representing the orals, and, so far as Ave know, they never afterwards, until the appearance of the Blastoid Catalogue, gave any other interpretation of the inner ring of plates.
If they had regarded them as orals, it would have suggested the j)resence of two rings of orals, the one within the other.
Subsequently we found reason to distinguish two rings above the radials the so-called orals or deltoids of Etheridge and Carpenter and a series of summit plates the so-called "proboscis" from a specimen of S. gemmifonms; and we communicated this fact to Dr. Carpenter as early as Dec. 17th 1885 with a diagram explaining it, stating that, although summit j)lates in our specimen were not preserved, such plates were probably represented in the species.
We also informed him that it was the third ring or deltoids, and not the summit plates, which we took to be the homologues of the interradials in Haplocrinus ; and that the hypothetical plates closing the summit we took to be represented in Haplocrinus by the central plate.
At the same time Ave applied to Prof Whitfield for specimens to ascertain the summit structure in S. angulatus.
From these specimens we at once found beyond all doubt that the plates of the third row in S. angulatus, as well as in S. gemmiformis, do not extend to.
the oral center, but are followed by five other plates the socalled "proboscis" covering the mouth (fig.
3).
Upon making this discovery Ave promptly declared the latter to be the orals, and advised Dr. Carpenter accordingly on January 9th 1886.
* Our statement, therefore, that the "ventral pyramid" in Stephanocrinus is composed of interradials, AA'as made with reference to plates Avhich Ave then supposed to be a single element, extending to, but not covering the oral center, and which Etheridge and Carpenter had previously announced to be orals folloAved by vault pieces, but now consider to be deltoids followed by orals.
When the authors assert that Ave applied the name "calyx interradials" to the "j^lates Avhich form the ventral pyramid and cover the mouth of Stephanocrimis and also of Hapdocrinus," Ave cannot help thinking that they are "going very much too fiir."
A similar erroneous statement Avas made by Dr. Carpenter in March 1886 ^ and it has been a matter of consid*It is due to Dr. Carpenter to state here tliat he had privately communicated to us, after Sect.
I of Pt.
Ill of our Revision was in print, that he regarded the inner ring of Stephanocrinits as orals, and this led to our correspondence upon the subiect.
lAnn.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., March, 1886, p. 282 erable surprise to us that in both these publications we should be held up to criticism for a statement which we did not make in any such form as their language would imply, and that the authors should indulge in a general adverse comment upon our incidental remark on Stephanocrimis, without the slightest intimation of the very important additions to our former views consequent upon new discoveries, which would have made our meaning entirely clear.
These were published in Part III, Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea, pp.
282-290.
To represent us as arguing that the plates which we recognize as calyx interi'adials "cover the actinal center," or "cover the mouth and the origin of the ambulacra, " seems to us very much like setting up a man of straw for the pleasure of knocking him down.
For our whole argument in favor of a homology of the orals of the Neocrinoid with the central plate in Palaeocrinoids, has been expressly put upon the ground that the latter plate covers the actinal center ; and one of the strongest objections we have constantly urged against such a homology with the proximals, has been that they do not (Rev.
Pal.
Pt.
Ill, p. 53).
Etheridge and Carpenter add in continuing their criticism above noticed : " There is not a single Crinoid known in which plates which are universally recognized to be calyx interradials cover in the actinal center."
Of course not ; and we do not know of anybody who says they do.
But on the other hand it is equally true that there is not a single Palaeocrinoid known in which the plates that are universally recognized as orals cover the whole ventral surface; and upon this ground we might well contend that if the plates which Etheridge and Carpenter consider to be orals are really such, then Allagecrmus and Haplocrinus are Neocrinoids, in which from the larva to the adult, as a rule the whole ventral surface is covered by actinal structures.
Their statement above cited, as to the homology of plates which "cover the mouth and the origin of the ambulacra, just as the orals do in Neocrinoids," might be profitably ajiplied to the case of Car-yocrinus, as shown by a number of excellent internal casts recently obtained from Racine, Wisconsin.
CaryoGrinua has a large central piece, and this is surrounded usually by eight plates, which are arranged in a totally different manner from the so-called pi'oximals of the Palaeocrinoidea.
Three of them are radial, the others interradial, (figs.
67).
The interradial pieces alternate with the radial ones, one to each side, except at the anal interradius where three smaller pieces take the place of the single one at the two other sides.
Like most of the Cystidea, Caryocrinus has no true radials, although it has well developed arms.
The rays start from underneath the central plate in a similar manner as they do in allied genera from underneath their quinque-partite oral 2:)yramid; but the ambulacra, instead of entering the surface at once, as in other groups, here remain subtegminal until they enter the arms, following the medium line of three radial plates, and branch (fig.
7) underneath them twice to their respective arm openings.
In this case, the central piece which "covers the mouth and the origin of the ambulacra" must surely represent the orals if any plate does, but not the plates Avhich surround it and cover neither the mouth nor the origin of the ambulacra.
We should like to know by what process Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter will demonstrate the oral nature of either the radial or interradial plates in this form.
We have already alluded to the great importance toward the establishment of Etheridge and Carpenter's oral theory, of their proving the existence both in Crinoids and Blastoids of a summit composed either of five plates only, or of a central plate surrounded by five.
This is why the series of jaarallel transitions or variations in the summit plates of the two groups is so strenuously urged in the Blastoid Catalogue.
But it seems to us that the authors have altogether failed to point out a single instance in which five primary plates cover the peristome among the Blastoids.
The cases which have been relied upon to prove such a condition, must be attributed to incorrect observation or the want of sufficiently good material.
That occasionally in certain species of Elaeacr'mus the central piece is more or less coalesced with the proximals of the azygous side, and these with one another so as to obscure the suture lines, as we have shown in our illustrations figs.
12 to 14, cannot alter the case in the least, as they are plainly visible in others, and without any change in the general arrangement of the summit.
Nor does it seem to us that the authors have been any more successful in showing how among Palaeocrinoids the five large plates in Haplocrinus, covering the whole ventral surface except the oral pole, could have been transformed in other groups of the Palaeocrinoidea into six plates covering only a small space around the peristome.
These five plates in Haplocrinus occupy the same position, as the primary calyx interradials of other groups, and especially resemble those of Cyathocrinus and Stephanoerinus.
(Compare figs.
2 to 5).
It may not be out of place to mention in this connection that in IIa])locrimL8 there appear radially between the five large ventral jjlates, upon their lateral edges, five conspicuous grooves (figs.
4 and 5), which were regarded by Prof. Zittel (Handb.
d. Palaeont, I, ^.
347) as ambulacral furrows.
Similar grooves exist in Cyathocrinus, Stephanocrinus and other Inaduuata along their intei'radials, and in all of them the grooves are occupied by the ambulacra.
The similarity between these grooves, no doubt, induced Prof. Zittel to give to those of Hcvplocrinus the same interpretation.
Unfortunately, however, the central plate of Haplocrvnus, as plainly seen in our specimens, does not occupy exactly the same level as the upper angles of the five large plates, but lies (Fig.
4) below their level and between them, just as if it were being pushed from within outward so as to separate the five plates at the central space.
The peculiar position of the centi'al plate demonstrates, we think beyond any doubt, that the ambulacra of Hajilocrinus could not have been exposed ujion this groove, but at the same time it appears to us that these grooves, which occupy relatively the same position toward surrounding plates and the peristome, and are formed in a similar manner, must represent morphologically the same grooves, which are occupied in higher developed types of this group by the ambulacra (fig.
3).
Supposing that Hapilocrinus, as we find it in the fossil state, were but an embryonic stage of the species the genus has been regarded a permanent larval form of the grouji we think we might safely assert from the phylogeny of the Palaeocrinoidea generally, that in the growing animal the central plate was pushed outward so as to appear at a level with the five interradials ; that subsequently by the growth of the dorsal cup, and the widening of the peristomial area, proximals appeared around the central piece ; and that at last the ambulacra were pushed out to the surface to occupy the radial grooves, which were present already in the young Haplocrinus.
The different stages to which we here have alluded are well represented in palaeontological times throughout the Inadunata, and not only among them, but also among the Camarata under very similar conditions.
The Camarata or Coadunata differ from the Inadunata in having their proximal arm joints incorporated into the calyx by the upward growth of interradials ; Avhile in the Inadunata the arms remain free from the first radial, and they have but one interradial which is disposed ventrally.
That all Camarata passed temporarily ill early life through the Inadunata stage, seems to us beyond dispute, and we think we may assert that they were for a time in a similar condition to Haplocrmus, with one interradial plate disposed ventrally.
Limiting our observations among the Camarata to the Platyerinidae, we find, so far as we know, their simplest forms represented by the two early genera Culicocrinus and Coccocrinus, which both have two rows of plates interradially disposed, the one resting within the circlet of the other.
In Culicocrinus,^ if Miller's figure is correct, the first row of these plates consists of five rather large pieces, one to each interradius, which connect laterally with the j^rimary and secondary arm plates, so as to make them radials and integral parts of the calyx.
Those of the second row which are triangular meet laterally and close the center, apparently without any additional plates.
Of Coccocrinus two species are known.
Coccocrinus bacca has three interradials in the first row, which have a strictly ventral position, C. rosaceus ap23arently but one, which is more erect.
In both species the plates extend to the height of the third primary radials, and probably higher.
The inner row of plates is only known in C. rosaceus, and these, like those of Culicocrinus, are subtriangular, but, unlike them, do not connect laterally with one another, nor do they meet in the center.
There is a lateral slit between them all the way to the arm openings, and at the center an open space, which in the fossil is not filled by any further structures.
In C bacca, as stated, the inner plates have not been preserved, but we scarcely doubt that similar plates were present, for we find in a radial direction between the outer plates of the first row, very conspicuous slits, which correspond to those of C. rosaceus.
The outer plates, in the two genera, were regarded by Carpenter as calyx interradials, the inner ones as orals, and these he took to be the homologues of the five large ventral plates of Haplocrinus, and of the proximals in other groups.
We admit that Coccocrinus and Culicocrinus probably are morphologically in a similar condition, and represent early stages in the phylogeny of the Palaeocrinoidea like Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus, ^Through the kindness of Prof F. Roemer, we received a most excellent gutta percha cast of a CuUcocrimis with arms, from a mould in the Mineralogical Museum of Breslau, but not showing the ventral covering.
Miller's original figures of the ventral covering, Lethea Geognostica of 1855, Taf.
VIII, figs.
1 and 2, we are informed are much restored, and the arrangement of the plates, as there given, not altogether reliable.
but we doubt if this is the case in the sense Dr. Carpenter suggasts.
The two former are Camarata, and as such should be j^rovided with more than one row of interradials, which they Avould not posse&s if the inner plates were orals.
Based upon palaeontological evidence, we think, we may reasonably suggest that in the developmental history of Culicocrinus, at the close of the Inadunata stage, the first row of interradials opened out to connect the proximal arm plate with the calyx, and that a second ring formed to take the place and functions of the first, closed the center.
Coecocrinus forms a connecting link between Culicocrinus and Platycriniis.
Probably it has one or more summit plates, and the ambulacra disposed between the interradials.
In Platycrinus, the inner interradials, which in Coecocrinus are yet placed at a level with the dorsal cup, are considerably more raised.
In consequence thereof we find in this genus much larger spaces between the interradials, centrally as well as laterally, and hence better developed summit plates and larger and heavier covering pieces.
Of the summit pieces probably the central plate appeared at first this is indicated by the phylogeuy of the group and the proximals appeared later, filling the vacancies, which gradually had formed around the central jjlate.
In this sketch we have not added anything that is not well sustained by the phylogeny of this group, or is not in accordance Avith the developmental history of the Palaeocrinoidea generallyThroughout this order, when summit plates are exposed at all, they occupy a comparatively small space around the peristome, and this space increases in width in palaeontological times.
In all Palaeocrinoids, so far as known, and we may add, in all Blastoids, the peristomial area is formed by the calyx interradials, whether these consist of one piece, as in the case of the Inadunata and Blastoidea, or of two, three, or a dozen pieces, as in the Camarata ; and the summit i:)lates, whether composed of a central plate only, or of proximals also, rest against the upper margin of the interradials.
In all Neocrinoidea, however, from the larva to the adult, the whole ventral surface is covered by actinal structures , the small interradials which were observed by Sir Wyville Thomson, disappear again soon after their development, and never attain any such prominence in the composition of the calyx as in the earlier Crinoids.
This character, which distinguishes the two groups so readily, would meet with most serious exceptions if the ventral plates in Allagecriiius, Haploerinus, Culicoci'inus and Coccocrinus, as asserted by Carpenter, represented the orals.
We think it was the superficial resemblance in the form and position of these plates with the orals of certain Neocrinoidea that led Carpenter to regard them as orals.
He probably overlooked the fact that the plates agree equally well on those points with the interradials of the Cyathocrinidae, and that as interradials the above genera would not be exceptional types, but comply with the morphological conditions of all their contemporaries.
We have shown that GuUcocrinus and Coccocrinus, as members of the Camarata, should have more than one interradial plate, and it is not very likely that the secondary one, exceptionally in those genera, would be substituted by a ring of oral plates.
But there is another serious difficulty.
The slits in C bacca extend out to the first row of ventral plates as well as to the second, and this suggests that, if Coccocrinus were "like the recent genus Holopus" to be "permanently in the condition of a crinoid larva, in which the orals have not yet moved away from the radials, though separated from one another,"* then both rows of plates were orals, one ring within the other.
Where among the numerous families of the Palaeocrinoidea do we find an instance in which the plates constituting either the oral pyramid or the proximals, are separated in that manner?
Nowhere ; but if there was such a case, we certainly would find it in the highest developed forms and not in the larval ones.
Again, where do we meet among Palaeocrinoids with an open peristome?
In the earliest stages of the Neocrinoid larva, the orals are closed, and in the earlier forms of the Camarata, such as Reteocrinus, Glyjjtocrinus, etc., the peristome is closed either by the upward growth of the calyx, or by a small central piece, there being no proximals, and hence, according to Carpenter's interpretation of these plates, no orals.
Those genera appear to us to be in a similar condition to Allagecriiius and ifapfocrift(ts among the Inadunata, and Cullcocrinus and Coccocrinus among the Camarata, but not in the condition of the Neocrinoidea at all.
However, we can readily understand why Carpenter holds so tenaciously to these plates as orals, for it is principally upon these plates that he bases his further theory, that in the higher Palaeocrinoidea the orals are represented by the proximals ; indeed they are his "simplest forms" which he failed to find among Blastoids.
In the Challenger Report on p. 170, he says: "The proximal dome *Chall.
Report, p. 163.
8 plates rest directly against the calyx interradials, that ou the posterior side being represented by two small plates with the anus between them" while there is a more or less tubercular ring of radial dome plates outside them.
These proximal dome jjlates thus correspond exactly to the orals of /Syvibathocrinus ajd Haplocrinus, covering in the peristome and resting against the calyx plates, which in the Platycriuus are the interradials, and not the upper edges of the radials, as in the simpler forms"; and on p. 171 : "I cannot therefore see what other view can be taken of the proximal dome plates which immediately surround the orocentral, than to regard them as orals, i. e., as the actinal representatives of the basals, like the corresponding plates in Symbathocrinus.
If this he admitted, it follows that the proximal dome plates of all Platycrinidae, Actinocrinidae and Rhodocrinidae are also homologous with the orals of Neocrinoids."
These conclusions perhaps might be well enough, if such a thing as an orocentral had been established ; but unfortunately this is not the case.
Neither are the plates in Symbathocrinus of which he speaks as "the orals," in our opinion, anything but proximals, and hence all conclusions based thereon, to say the least of it, are inexpedient and rash.
It is somewhat surprising that Dr. Carpenter, although his whole theory is actually based upon his hypothetical "orocentral," gives such a meagre account of it.
In the Challenger Report, in introducing it on p. 158, he devotes to it only a few lines.
Referring to the small central plate of Haplocrinus, he says: "This plate is one of considerable importance in its morphological relations.
In accordance with the views which I have expressed elsewhere, I believe it to be the representative on the actinal side, or left larval antimer, of the dorsocentral plate which is developed in the center of the right antimer or abactinal side of Urchins, Stellerids, and Crinoids."
And on pp.
159 and 170, in pointing out its relations to the proximals, he calls the plate the orocentral, and speaks of it as a single plate.
That is all Dr. Carpenter had to say about it, and probably all that could be said, for such a plate has been heretofore unknown in Echinoderm morphology.
We do not deny that the so called dorsocentral of Urchins and fitellerids is represented in the Comatula larva by the terminal plate of the stem, but we see no good reason to postulate from this a similar plate in the oral center.
There are at the abactinal side frequently also underbasals, which on the same principle should be represented orally, but nothing is known of them.
Why should the dorso central be represented at the actinal side when there is no actinal stem, in this or any other group of the Echinoderras ?
The dorsoeentral in the Echinozoa represents in a wider sense the whole column in its simplest form, although in a narrower sense it is the homologue of the first part of the stem that makes its appearance in the embryo.
If there was such a thing as an orocentral in fossil Crinoids, Blastoids and Cystids, it seems to us, it certainly w^ould be represented in the early larva of the living types Ijefore the parting of the orals, and in the closed oral pyramid of the Cystids and Steph.
anocrinus; but unfortunately for Carpenter's theory w^e meet with no trace of it in either one of those forms.
The plate which he regards as orocentral, occupies the place of the five orals in other groups, and in a similar manner as these, covers the peristome and the origin of the ambulacra.
This is conclusively shown by comparing the ca.se of Caryocrinus in which the ambulacra start from beneath the central plate and branch twice underneath the surrounding plates,withthecaseof /SpAaero/^ites (fig.
1) and Stephanoeriims (fig.
3), in which the ambulacra start from beneath a penta-partite oral pyramid.
Does this indicate that the five plates constituting the latter, are the representatives of the proximals ?
We doubt it, for the structural resemblance is with the central piece.
We think the distribution and arrangement of the surrounding plates in Carijocrinus proves conclusively that these cannot be orals, for the most ingenious speculator would be unable to reconstruct five primitive plates from such an assemblage of pieces as we find in Caryocrinus and in Von Koenen's new genus Juglandocrinus^.
What those plates may be, whether actinal or abactinal structures, we will not pretend to decide, but we do undertake to say that they are not orals, otherwise the rule that there are always five primitive orals meets with a very serious exception.
Somewhat more favorable perhaps to Car^^enter's views is the arrangement of the proximals in the Palaeocrinoidea and Blastoidea, in which the plates surrounding the central piece are unquestionably actinal structures, and there is a possibility of reconstructing from the six, seven, or more pieces, five primitive plates.
We also admit that in all cases where those plates come in direct contact with the anal structures, their arrangement might possibly have been disturbed thereby, but this explanation is not applicable to forms like Megistoerinus, Dorycriims and many others, in which the anus is lateral or moved away from the center to the arm regions or even beneath them.
But there are several other equally serious objections.
*Neues Tahrbuch fur Mineralogie 1886, Bd.
II, Taf.
IX, Fig.
3.
In the Comatula larva, which shows a decidedly bilateral symmetry, there are five equal basals and five equal orals.
In Thaumatoorinus, although it has anal plates and a large proboscis, the basals and anals remain undisturbed.
The same may be said of the basals of the Palaeocrinoidea and Blastoidea; among which not a single instance is known where the basal ring contains either anals or radials, contrary to the proximals, among which nearly always anals and often radials are enclosed.
This shows that the presence of such plates, if the proximals in those groups represent the orals, and the latter the basals, would be totally at variance with the general rules of the class both as to orals and basals.
The anal plates of the apical side either abut directly against the radials, or are placed between the interradials.
In most of the Camarata, the first interradial at the azygous side is split into two halves by the first or second anal piece.
In others, the second anal is wanting, but the interradial is composed of two parts as if the anal were present.
In a few groups there are no anal plates whatever, and the arrangement of the plates at all five sides is alike.
The same variations as among the interradials are found in the arrangement of the proximals, * of which the four large plates correspond to the calyx interradials at the four regular sides.
The two smaller proximals, which occupy the azygous interradius, either are placed between two radial dome plates or they abut against two of the larger proximals, enclosing generally an anal plate but this may be absent or pushed downard.
As yet, we have not observed a single instance in which there were five plates around a central one, but should it occur, which we think is very possible, we doubt if Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter, although finding at last their "simpler form," will be able to make much out of it in support of their theories.
We stated heretofore that fig.
A on p. 72 of the Blast.
Cat.
is erroneous, and this, to some extent is the case with fig.
B on the same page.
We never saw a Platycrinus with a single interradial, all having three (or more), arranged transversely.
Besides, the figure is misleading in not giving the central piece and the so-called radial-dome plates.
If these plates had been added, as they should have been to represent the case properly, it would show that the radial-dome plates are placed opposite the radials, the proximals opposite the interradials, and that the central piece takes orally the *For the arrangement of the proximals see Revision Pt.
Ill, pp.
47 to 50. position of the coalesced basal disc ; a totally ditTerent thing from what the English authors attempted to prove by their figure.
We are altogether in accord with Goette and Carpenter in their opinion that the orals are represented in the abactinal system by the basals, but we disagree entirely with the latter writer that the basals are represented orally by the proximals.
We regard the proximals as an element similar to the interradials, but, while these fill up vacancies in the calyx, the former fill the open space around the peristome as it widens in the growing animal by the increasing width of the dorsal cup.
To this conclusion we were led principally by the arrangement of the plates, the presence of radial and anal plates in the same ring with them, and by their gradual appearance in geological times.
We further believe the central piece is the only plate which in the Palaeocrinoidea and Blastoidea can possibly represent the quinque-partite oral pyramid.
We regard it as being primitively composed of five pieces, such as remained intact persistently in Stephanocrinus and most of the Cystidea, but which were fused together by anchylosis in other groups as aborally in the case of the basals, which gradually were reduced from five to three, and in certain groups to one solid piece.
The proximals, therefore, in our opinion, are not of that morphological importance as they are regarded by Dr. Carpenter, and we think the same may be said of the so-called radial dome plate*-'.
These also, like the proximals, seem to us mere auxiliary pieces, filling u]) vacancies, beneath which the branching of the ambulacra takes place.
If they deserve the term radials at all, they certainly represent the axillaries, and not the oculars or first radials, except perhaps in some very complex species in which there appear three successive pieces to each ray, the inner ones resting against the central plate in a similar manner as the true radials rest against the basals ; while the third or axillai^ one holds toward the proximals and the ambulacra the very same relations as the single radial does in the simpler form (See Revision Pt.
Ill, PI.
IV, Fig.
4, and PL VIII, Figs.
1, 3.).
It is also very significant that frequently in those complex forms there appear toward the center tvithin the ring of proximals (orals of Ether, and Carp.
), two extra axillaries underneath which the tw^o lateral rays, which are united close to the peristome, divide so as to form the antero-and posterolateral rays.
How Dr. Carpenter will explain the presence -of these plates within the "oral" ring, which is said to cover the origin of the ambulacra, is a mystery to us, and we look to him for informatiou.
The radial dome plates, as a rule, disappear when the ambulacra enter the surface, and this explains why they are absent in Blastoids,* Steplianocrinus and the later Cyathocrinidae.
We have already alluded to the fact that the proximals are frequently unrepresented in the earlier groups, in which, as a rule, the peristomial area is comparatively smaller than in later ones, and closed only by a small central piece.
Upon this 2:oint it is very interesting that w^e have recently discovered the same thing in later groups under somewhat different conditions.
In two cases, the one a species of Talarocrinus from the St. Louis group of Kentucky (Fig.
10), the other a Dichocrinus from the Kinder hook of Iowa, w^e found the whole space usually occupied by central piece and proximals, although as large as in any Platycriniis, filled completely by an enormous, nodose central plate, with the covering pieces abutting against it.
Interposed between the ambulacra are a number of small interradial plates, which barely touch the central piece.
In these cases, according to our interpretation, the increasing space of the peristomial area was filled by lateral growth of the orals (central piece), instead of by means of proximals.
But according to Carpenter's generalizations (Challenger Report, p. 171), the insignificant interradiaLs next to the central piece, and between the amliulacra, should be the representatives of the orals or else his rules would encounter another serious objection.
Dr. Carpenter regards both Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus as representing in a phylogenetic sense embryonic stages of the Palaeocrinoidea.
If this be true, he has failed to give a reasonable explanation how the large plates covering almost the whole ventral side in these low foi^ms, came to be placed in this group so as to occupy only the relatively small space they do in Avhat he regards as higher developed forms.
Etheridge and Carpenter undertook to prove it in their paper, AnnaLs and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Apr.
1881, p. 289, by imagining that, in the more mature specimens of Allagecrinus "the orals were relatively carried inwards, away from the radials, and separated from them by perisome ( just as they are in the Pentacrinoid larva of Comatula) when the arms appear above the radials.
Whether the orals ever separated so as to open the mouth to the exterior, and whether the ring of perisome forming the ventral disk * Etheridge and Carpenter figure, Blastoid Catalogue on PI.
XVIII, Fig, 16, Elaeacrinus Verneui/i with radial dome plates; none of our specimens show any traces of them.
between them and the radials was naked, as in Bhizocrinus, or plated, as in Hyocrinus, must of course remain undiscovered."
This explanation is suggestive enough of what may occur in the Neocrinoidea, but they fail to give a parallel case in which such a development as this took place in a single Palaeocrinoid, and this omission is the more important since they place the genus Allagecrinus in the latter group.
They state afterwards (op.
cit.
p. 289).
"It is true we have no proof that there were any orals at all in the older specimens; but, judging from the relative sizes and development of the largest examples with oral plates, and the smallest without, we think it scarcely likely that they were entirely unrepresented in the adult.
It is obvious that, if they were united to the radials by perisome, whether plated or bare, they would be readily lost under conditions that would have had no destructive effect on younger specimens, in which there was a closer union between the two rings of plates."
From the foregoing quotation, it is obvious that the Authors desired to prove from the fact that the ventral plates were not found preserved in what they regarded as the most mature stages of the species, that they could not have rested upon the radials as in their younger examples, and that they were parted from the radials by perisonie.
Upon this proposition we will observe that we have never found among Palaeocrinoids the slightest evidence indicating to us that any of the summit plates were carried inward by perisome.
We find that among the Camarata they occupy a comparatively small space, but larger than in the Blastoidea, and that in all cases in which they occur, they are supported by the upward growth of the interradials.
In the simpler forms of the Inadunata, when observed, they rest upon a single interradial plate as in the case of the Silurian Cyathocrinus alutaceous (Aug.).
In the Carboniferous form of Cyathocrinus, in which the ambulacra are placed upon the lateral edges of the interradials, the orals are not carried inward by perisome, but the perisome appears upon the surface of the interradial plates.
That the ventral plates were not preserved in the socalled adult specimens of Allagecrinus is no proof that they did not exist, or that they were carried inward.
The simple fact that the radials underwent the change from the horse-shoe form to a higher state of development, having strongly marked articular facets, extending to the whole width of the plates, is sufficient to explain Avhy the interradials were not intact or reduced in the adult stages.
We need only refer to the parallel cases of Cyathocrinidae and Poteriocrinidae.
In the former, in which the articular facets were comparatively undeveloped, we have been able, in a number of instances, to observe ventrally the interradial plates, which Etheridge and Carpenter formerly regarded as structually identical with the socalled orals of AUagecrinus.
Whilein the Poteriocrinidae, in which the articular facets are highly developed, no trace of these plates has ever been found.
We, of course, do not claim that this is positive proof, that in Allagecrinns these plates were not carried inward by perisome, but it militates strongly against the probability of such a thing, while the theory that they were is at best but the merest conjecture.
If Etheridge and Carpenter had placed AUagecrinus and Haploerinus among the Neocrinoidea as larval forms, they might be much better warranted in supposing that the plates in question were orals, and were afterwards carried inward, but both forms have been referred by them to the Palaeocrinoidea, in which that mode of development is altogether unknown.
The case of Ct/athocrmus shows cleaidy that in the later types of the Inadunata the conditions of the Palaeocrinoidea remain unchanged.
The summit plates are not carried inward by perisome, but occupy the same space as in the earlier forms, and the perisome is formed upon the outer surface of the interradials.
(Revision, Pt.
Ill, PI.
IV, Figs, 2, 3, 6.)
We should like to know upon what ground the authors maintain that those genera are Palaeocrinoids, when they interpret their structures according to the rules characteristic of the Neocrinoidea.
They neither have an anal plate, nor does AUagecrinus show any such irregularity in the arrangement of its plates, as would of itself warrant a reference to the Palaeocrinoids.
The only irregularity noticed in AUagecrinus is that the radials in some specimens may be axillary in one to four of the rays, or not axillary in any o^ them, and upon this character, curiously enough, Etheridge and Carpenter seem to have separated AUagecrinus from the Haplocrinidae and made it the type of a distinct family.
On this alone it appears they divide it from the Neocrinoidea, as if it were one of the most constant characters among the Palaeocrinoids ; while in fact this peculiarity is found only in the Catillocrinidae, in two of the rays of Tribrachiocrinus, and occasionally in AUagecrinus.
A character like this is liable to be discovered exceptionally in any new form of Neocrinoids, just as well as among Palaeocrinoids, while among the latter we find a number of genera, in wliich the arrangement of of the dorsal cup is altogether symmetrical.
It will not, of course, be inferred from the foregoing remarks that we think Allagecrinus and Haplocriniis belong to the Neocrinoidea, but simply that, if Messrs.
Ether idge and ('arpenter's arguments are valid, they necessarily lead to that conclusion.
We think, on the contrary, there are the strongest reasons for considering them both to be Palaeocrinoids, and that there is no difficulty in discovering entire conformity in their morphological conditions with other Palaeocrinoids.
Whatever arguments Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter may hereafter offer in favor of their oral theory, it seems to us, they will have to explain ujjon palaeontological grounds how the five large ventral plates of Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus which cover the whole ventral surface happen to occupy in all higher or more advanced forms a comparatively small space around the peristome.
They will have to point out by what process the jive plates, without coming in contact with the anus, were transformed into six pieces or more ; and they will have to furnish better proof as to the existence of a so-called "orocentral," or they will have to modify their generalizations, which are basqd almost exclusively upon this highly hypothetical plate.
Explanations of Figures, Plate IV.
(The following letters are employed throughout the figures).
o.
Oral plate or oral pyramid ; p, proximals ; i, interradials ; i a, interaxillaries ; r, radials ; a, anal plate ; x, anus , g, grooves.
Fig.
1.
Oral pyramid and surrounding plates of Sphaeronites glohosus (after Angelin, Icon.
Crin.
Suec.
Tab.
XI, Fig.
14.)
2.
Ventral aspect of Cyathocrinas Gilesi.
3.
The same of Stephanocrinus angulatus.
4.
The same of Haplocrinus mespiliformis.
5.
Profile view of the same species.
6.
Ventral aspect of Caryocrinus ornatus (after Hall, Palaeont.
N. York, Vol.
II, PI.
41a, Fig.
le).
7.
The ventral plates of Caryocrinus from near Louisville, Ky. (The course of the subtegminal ambulacral tubes indicated upon the surface of the plates).
8.
The sam e oiJuglandocrinus crassus (after von Koenen, Jahrb.
Miner.
Bd.
II, Taf IX, Fig.
3.).
9.
Ventral covering of a new Talarocrinus from Kentucky ; the peristomial area closed by a large central plate without the aid of proximals.
10.
The summit plates of Elaeacrinus Verneuili (after Eth.
and Carp., Blast.
Catal.
PI.
XVIII, Fig.
16).
11.
The same of Elaeacrinus elegans (from Hall's type in the National Museum of New York.)
12-14.
The same of Elaeacrinus obovatus, as seen in different specimens.
Fig.
12, all the sutures visible.
Fig.
13. the suture between central piece and smaller proximals obliterated.
Fig.
14, also those toward the small anal plate obliterated.
1887.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
115 April 5.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D. in the chair.
Forty-four persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: "The Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the Samoa or Navigator Islands."
By Andrew Garrett.
"Notes on Fresh-water Rhizopods of Swatow, China."
By Adele M. Fielde.
Note on the Multiplication of Disioma.
A note was read from Miss Adele M. Fielde, dated Swatow, China, Feb., 1887, to the effect that Distoma infests a species of snail found in many of the pools and wells near Swatow which is eaten, boiled, by the Chinese, and which is fed raw to ducks and geese.
On dissecting, recently, an apparently healthy specimen, having a shell an inch long, she had found its liver almost wholly replaced by a Redia, the parent of the Cercaria, which being passively transferred to the alimentary canal of a vertebrate, develops into the Distoma.
The life history of this trematode, as worked out by A. P. Thomas, is given in the Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, 1883, pp.
99-133, and Limnceus is mentioned as its host.
The Redice seen in the snails were of an orange yellow color and the largest were one-tenth of an inch in length.
There were counted two hundred and fifty-three that were large enough to be easily isolated by the use of a needle point under the naked eye ; and scores more, of smaller size and paler yellow, were visible under a lens.
On 02:)ening several of the larger Redioi, whose muscular mouths were active; they were found each to contain from eighteen to twenty-six Cercarice, strong enough to whirl their tails vigorously, beside many embryos less fully developed.
The Cercarice.
moved rapidly over a glass slide by the use of their two suckers ; and, merged in water, retained their vitality for thirty hours after being removed from the snail and the Redia.
The one snail must have been the host of at least ten thousand larval Distomas.
April 12.
Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair.
Thirty-one persons present.
The Placentation of the Two-toed Ant-eater, Cydoturus didactylus.
-Prof J.
A. Ryder remarked that some months since Mr. J. W. Scollick kindly placed in his hands an example of the uterus, containing a perfect foetus of this interesting little arboreal South American Ant-eater.
The only description of the foetus and membranes of this animal which the speaker had been able to find, was by Mayer, in his Analeeta, while Milne-Edwards has figured and described the fretus and membranes of the allied form, Tcmiandua, in the "Annales des Sciences Naturelles."
The almost globular uterus, containing a well-developed foetus, in the specimen exhibited at the meeting of the Academy, was about one inch in diameter.
The placenta was relatively large, domeshaped, or in the form of a disk, seven-eighths of an inch in diameter, much thickened in the center and becoming abrui:)tly thin at its margin.
Its outer or maternal surface was very convex and its inner or fcetal surface distinctly concave.
Tlie rather short, stout umbilical cord was attached at about the center of the disk and to its inner surface.
The placental disk when carefully inspected upon its inner surface was found to be distinctly lobulated, somewhat as in the Sloths, as described by Sir Wm.
Turner.
The fissures which divided the placental disk were especially conspicuous when the edges of the disk were slightly bent by the fingers towards the convex side.
The uterine cornua were short, and the uterus was simj^le as in man and the sloths ; the oviducts apparently quite small ; the ovaries of strikingly unequal dimensions on opposite sides.
No portion of the uterus was exserted or projected into the vagina as in man, but the walls of the vagina passed directly into those of the uterus.
The vaginal nuicous membrane was, however, deeply plicated in a longitudinal direction, these plications extending slightly into the cavity of the uterus.
The vessels of the cord are subdivided at their insertion into the placental disk ; arterial and venous branches going to and fi*om the several placental lobes, of which there were five, Avhich could be distinctly made out.
On the inner surface of the uterine walls, there were apparently adherent portions of the fetal and maternal tissues of the placenta, showing that this type is in all probability more or less deciduate, notwithstanding the fact that the uterine walls are relatively quite thin.
The area embraced by the true chorion or placenta covered very nearly one-half of the inner surface of the globularly distended uterus.
The fixlse chorion made up the other half of the membranous investment of the fretus and was quite thin and translucent.
It covered with its outer surface about half of the inside of the uterus, or that hemisphei'e of the latter at the pole of which the vagina opened from without.
The foetus itself was well advanced, having as yet no outward hairy coat, nor could any traces of hair follicles be noted in the skin.
No epitrichium was observed, though this may be developed at a later period, or after the hair is erupted from the follicles.
Tlie total length of the foetus was nearly or quite three inches, of which the long stout tail formed more than a third.
The speaker then contrasted the various types of placentation, pointing out that it was largely a matter of how the blastodermic vesicle was primarily brought into relatioii with the walls of the uterus.
If the foetation occurred in the bicorned or tulnilar type of uterus there was an obvious tendency toward the diffuse or zonary type of placenta, as shown in Ungulates and Carnivora, and in those uniparous forms in which the foetus occupies mainly one horn of the uterus, and in which there are bare poles to the chorion and a bare spot Avhere the latter comes in contact with the os uterus as in the Mare and Dugong.
Here, the mere mechanical relations of the foetal and maternal surfaces obviously had had an influence in determining the form of the placenta.
The zonary placenta was also imitated in Arthropods {Perijmtus) in virtue of the existence of such similar conditions in both the latter and Carnivorous Mammalia.
The speaker thought that all attempts to use the placenta as a means of clearly distinguishing the various orders of mammalia or of subdividing the latter into sub-classes would, in the course of further embryological research, be shown to be not well founded.
This seemed all the more probable since the rationale of the so-called " inversion " of the germinal rays of Rodentia was better understood.
As a result of fuller knowledge it is hardly conceivable that a zonary placenta could be found in those types, notwithstanding the fact that they at first seem to present the same type of condition for the blastodermic vesicle in the uterine cornua as do the Carnivora.
But now that we know that some of the Insectivora (Talpa) tend in the same direction the anomalies which are presented by Insectivora and Rodentia become explainable and lead us up to the vicAV that, it depends (1) upon the mode in which the early development is modified, and (2) upon the manner in which the foetus is related to the maternal surfaces, whether the diffuse, zonary or discoidal form of placenta will be assumed.
In the case of the Sloths and Ant-eaters, of South America, the uterus has attained a remarkable degree of specialization, so as to greatly resemble the simple uterus of the higher Primates, and in this case again, the relationship between the form of the uterine cavity and that of the placenta seems obvious, for in the sloths, ant-eaters and higher primates, the placenta is essentially discoidal and deciduate.
In the sloth, however.
Turner has sho^v*ll the discoidal placenta to be made up of separable lobes ; these may be conceived as representing the cotyledons of Ungulates, or groups of tufts in the diffuse type of placenta, which have been crowded together as the uterine cornua became shortened on the mesometric side, in the transition from the bifid to the simple type of uterus.
Some further ground for this view of the origin of the lobulated discoidal, dome-shaped placenta of the sloths is supplied by the fact that in Manis, or the scaly Ant-eater of the Old World, the placenta is diffuse and non-deciduate.
In some of the Armadilloes the placenta is transversely oblong, and this again is a fact favorable to the preceding view.
In like manner, the terms " deciduate " and " non-decidnate " do not serve to .sliarj)ly mark ofl' groups from each other, but probably rest for their distinction upon the more or less intimate and complex interlocking of the fcetal and maternal membranes during their functional activity.
So that in this case again we are dealing with structures and structural conditions differing only in degree but not in kind.
The extra thickening of the decidua or uterine mucosa in the extremest type of deciduate placenta, may be regarded as correlated Avith the restriction, concentration or reduction of tlie placental area and the formation of a decidua serotina.
Finally, it is proper to call attention to the fiict that the American Edentata are more specialized as respects their placentation than those of the Old World.
The American forms, further, generally agree amongst themselves, except that in the Armadilloes, Milne-Edwards, KoUiker and Von Jhering have observed that, in some species, there may be a number of lletuses invested by a common chorion, on which account, the latter author has supposed that such a com])ound embryo is the result of the fragmentation or subdivision of a single egg, a phenomenon of metagenesis to which he has a2)plied the appropi'iate term Temnogeny.
Sugar in China.
At the recent meeting of the Botanical Section, Mr. Thomas Meehan read the following extract from a letter of Miss Adele M. Fielde, a missionary in China.
The letter is dated from Swatow. "
My attention has lately been called to an error, existing apparently in many minds, concerning the plant from which sugar is made in China.
A late consular re])ort from Canton says the plant is a species of Sorghum, and in the American Cyclopedia (Appleton, 1863), the article on Sorghum appears to me to convey the same idea.
I send you to-day flowers of the plant cultivated very extensively for the sugar in the neighborhood of Swatow, and which is the source of the chief ex])ort of this treaty port.
It seems to me no sorghum, but by the description in botanical works, the true Saccharum offi-cinarum.
Tell me whether it differs from the plant from which sugar is made in the Southern United States.
Propagation is from cuttings, a section of the culm, a foot long, being set out at each i)lanting.
This planting is done m February, and is ready to be cut for pressing out the juice eleven months later.
In the fourth year the stubble is removed, and new cane is planted.
It is not allowed to flower, as the cultivators say it spoils it for use in sugar making."
Mr. Meehan said he could scarcely understand how the idea should get currency that Sorghum yielded the sugar of China, for though the native country of the true sugar cane is unknown, the civilized world is indebted to China for the first knowledge that what we know as sugar could be extracted from the cane.
IMaiuifactured sugar from this cane was known in China before it was known in Europe.
As for Sorghum, though sugar could be made from it, it had been found so unreliable for that purpose, depending apparently more on some cliemical accident than on vital power, that it was doubtful if sugar in any quantity had ever been made from it in China or anywhere else.
Certainly the specimens sent by Miss Fielde were of the true sugar cane, as grown by us in the Southern States.
Floral Calendars.
In regard to the times of flowering of plants, Mr. Meehan exhibited blooms of the winter Aconite, Eranthus hyemalis, and the Snowdrop, Galanthus nivalis, which this year were blooming together on the 10th of April.
In other seasons the same plants, growing side by side, had given flowers of the winter Aconite, several weeks before the Snowdrop.
The explanation was that some plants would start into growth at a lower temperature than others.
The Snowdrop would remain at rest under a low temperature quite sufficient to excite the Aconite.
In a season when the thermometer remained regularly lower than sufficient to excite growth in the Aconite, the plant remained quiescent until the warmer spring weather brought forward both kinds together.
These facts showed that no such a scheme as a floral calendar could be established, as the relative blooming of plants depended on accidents of temperature rather than on any fixed climatal conditions.
Cortical Peculiarities in the Plum.
Some specimens of supposed hybrids between the Peach and the Plum were sent to the Academy for examination.
The chief reasons for the belief that they were hybrids were that they were sterile, and seemed in leaf and branches intermediate between the two species.
Mr. Meehan observed, that in hybrids between acknowledged species, it did not follow that the characters should be intermediate.
Often there would be scarcely any trace of the action of the male parent, while at other times the male would seem to have had a leading influence.
But these plum branches showed no trace of any intermediate characters, but were purely plum branches, with no sign of the Peach character about them.
He said he had called the attention of the Academy on several occasions in the past to the fact that the bark of trees did not crack from the mechanical pressure of wood-growth, as so often taught in botanical text-books, but the rifts arose from the peculiar growth of cork cells, and it was the character and general direction of these growths, apparently different in species, that gave the varied characters to tree bark, characters that were more or less constant in each species of tree.
A tree could in fact be nearly as well known by its bark as by its fruit.
The development of the cork cells destroyed the cuticle.
In the Cherry and Birch the chief development was in a lateral direction, and hence we could easily strip sections from around branches.
In the Abele Poplar the development destroyed the bark to a considerable depth, and in a quadrangular form.'
These gradually met at the points and at once formed deep furrows up and down the stem.
In the Plane and some other trees, the cork cells worked up and down under thick layers of bark which it threw ofl" in flakes.
But the chief distinction was in the period of life when they assumed activity.
In the Chestnut ( Castanea) it Avas nearly 25 years before they grew into destructive agencies, and hence there was smooth bark to the Chestnut for nearly a quarter of a century.
In the oak rough bark from the development of the cork cells, began at about ten years, in the Sassafras at live years, in some they started at one and occasionally the same season.
In the Beech they grew the first season, and only worked under the outer cuticle, which they threw off as fine film annually.
Handling a branch of Beech at some seasons, a filmy deposit would be left in the hands, which was the fine silky bark of the Beech.
Hence the Beech had never rough bark.
This fact should show mechanical action had no part in rifting the bark.
Mechanical action should split a Beech as well as any other tree.
Returning to the Plum, he remarked that the development of the cork cells were in many respects the same as in the Beech.
They started on their destructive errand before the annual groAvth was fairly over, destroying the thin outer cuticle as it progressed.
It was this that gave the silvery tint to Plum wood with which all must be familiar.
This was never seen on Peach Avood.
This character was exhibited in all the samples of supposed hybrids sent.
There was nothing whatever to distinguish them from pure Plums so far as this character was concerned.
As for the flowers, the plants were sterile because of peculiar abortion in the reproductive organs.
The carpels instead of being consolidated, ending in a single style as in the ordinary Plum, had become distinct, and they were ten processes difficult to say whether they resembled stamens or pistils most.
There were no attempts to form perfect stamens or petals, but the bud scales had a faint rosy margin as if there existed a slight dis]30sition to make petals out of them.
They Avere remarkable examples of monstrosity in Plum flowers, but nothing to indicate any action of the Peach therein.
They were evidently sterile because they were monstrous, and not that they Avere hybrids.
The foliage had a more peachy look than customary Avith Plums, so far as mere outline Avas concerned, but it is well knoAvn that Avhen there Avas a disturbance of sexual characters, the whole system of groAvth Avas apt to be disturbed.
It Avas possible the Plum and the Peach Avould hybridize.
It would be of much interest to science could the possibility be proA^ed a fact.
It Avas due to science to say these specimens did not prove it.
The chief interest in the specimens, he thought, dwelt in the fact that amidst all the changes in characters brought about by some abnormal agency, the cortical peculiarities as influenced by the cork cells remained the same.
April 19.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
ProcAcad, Nat.
Sci.Mada, 1887, Pl.l, Rominger, Fossils from Mt.
Stephens.
& c. C. Rominger, del.
PROG.
ACAD.
NAT.
SCI, PHILA.
1887.
PL II.
WHITE.
NEW CRETACEOUS MOLLUSCA.
Proc.Acad.
Nat.
Sci.Philada.
1887.
PI.
III.
Meyer, Eocene Invertetrates.
O.Meyer, del PROC.
ACAD, NAT.
SCI.
PHILADA, 1887.
PL.
IV.
WACHSMUTH & SPRINGER, SUMMIT PLATES OF BLASTOIDS ETC.
April 26.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twenty-three persons present.
The following letter was read : Board of Trustees of the Building Fund, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, April 25, 1887.
Dr. Jos.
Leidy, President of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Dear Sir: I have the pleasure to inform you that in conformity with a recommendation of the Council and requisition of the Academy, the title of the land on the west side of Nineteenth Street between Race and Cherry Streets, -with the buildings erected thereon, heretofore held in trust for the society, has been lawfldly conveyed in fee simple to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; and that the deed has been duly recorded and deposited in the fire-proof of the Academy.
I am very respectfully, Yr. Obt.
Servant, W. S. W. Ruschenberger, Chairman Trustees of Building Fund.
Ovo-viviparous Generation in Tropidonotus.
Professor Heilprin presented the following communication, dated April 15, 1887, from Mr. H. C. Young, of the Philadelphia Custom House, referring to a water-snake shot by that gentlemen some fourteen years ago, at a locality about three miles above Salem, N. J.
"Upon examining the snake (which was almost as thick as my fore-arm) I found it contained considerable of a bunch which I supposed to be somethingit had swallowed, but upon cutting it open I found it contained small snakes in a bag, each one in a separate division formed as it were by a twist in the bag.
I took them out and found there were 33 of them of different sizes a number of the smaller ones having a portion of an egg attached to them, which they appeared to be absorbing, the larger ones having had already absorbed theirs.
I was then convinced that while the land-snakes lay eggs in the earth to be hatched by the heat of the sun, the young of the water-snake are actually hatched in the belly of the mother."
Prof. Heilprin stated that the snakes had been presented by Mr. Young to the Academy, and on examination proved to be Tropidonotus sijoedon.
The case demonstrated beyond a question of doubt that the species was ovoviviparous.
Prof Henry A.
Ward, of Rochester, was elected a correspondent.
The following were ordered to be printed : 9 NOTES ON FRESHWATER RHIZOPODS OF SWATOW, CHINA.
BY ADELE M. FIELDE.
During the month of February, in ooze taken from the pools and ditches near my house, and preserved in soup-plates under water an inch in depth, I have seen Amoeba radlosa, Amoeba verrucosa, Dlfflugia pyriformis, Difflugia acuminata, Difflugia cornuta, Difiugia corona, Difflugia nodosa, Diffiiigia eompressa, Difflugia spiralis, Difflugia lobostoma, Difflugia globulosa, Arcella vulgaris, Arcella discoides, Centrop)yxis aculeata, Centropyxis ecornis, with the empty shells of Euglypha aiveolata, and the Heliozoans, Actinophyrs sol, Actinophyrs picta, Actinosphcerium, and Acanthocystis.
Of Difflugia spiralis, the greater number had shells formed of vermicular pellets.
In Difflugia lobostoma the mouth of several specimens seen, was six lobed, and the shell of a glossy brown, ovoid or spherical, and so constructed of oval plates mingled with sand grains as to resemble Nebela.
I have also seen several empty shells of Difflugia cratera, of bright brown membrane, and of the shape shown in Fig.
20, Plate XII, in Leidy's work on Rhizopods.
These shells were only xoVo of an inch in length, and had no sand grains adherent.
All the above species and varieties having been fully described and illustrated by Leidy, in his book on the Fresh-water Rhizopods of North America, I note their presence here only in order to record the interesting fact of their wide distribution.
In addition to the above, I have found another species, not described by Leidy, which has been identified with Difflugia triangulata, Lang, (Difflugia bipes, Carter).
From the cancellated character of the shell this form probably belongs to the genus Nebela, Leidy.
Another species observed is probably the Nebela collaris, Leidy.
The specimens of the form regarded as Difflugia (Nebela) triangulata vary but little in size in a great number of specimens observed, averaging ^^^y of an inch in length, with a mouth ^wo of an inch in diameter ; with two horns on the lateral borders of the fundus, the horns being usually joks of an inch in length, and placed in different specimens at very different angles to the long axis of the shell.
In some specimens a protuberance rises midway between the horns.
The greatest diameter of the shells varies considerably with the inclination of the horns, a difference of iVoo of f^n iiich being observed in different specimens having the same length, ^^^ to jfj of an inch being common.
The transverse diameter is always about half that of the broad diameter, narrowing gradually to the cylindroid mouth.
The hexagonal cancellations are about ^o o^ of ^^ iiich in diameter, their regularity varying.
The sarcode in the specimens observed occupied not more than half the interior capacity of the shell, pyriform in shape, with never more than three pseudopods projected.
A current of Avater directed into the mouth of a shell, caused, in one instance, the instant retraction of two long pseudopods, and the carrying of the whole mass of sarcode to the fundus of the shell.
The shell of Nehela collaris, Leidy, is obovate in the broad aspect, and the fundus is edged with what looks like a row of tiny bubbles.
In the lateral aspect, the shell is generally pyriform, with an acute fimdus.
The length of the shell is about ^Iq of an inch, and its greatest breadth 3^77, the proportions varying but slightly in many specimens observed.
The sarcode is the same as in Dijjiugia cornuta^ and many specimens were observed with the sarcode formed into a ball in the center of the shell.
The sarcode of all specimens seen, contained numerous brown granules and brown or greenish food-balls, similar in color to the diatoms and desmids associated with all these Rhizopods.
THE TERRESTRIAL MOLLTJSCA INHABITING THE SAMOA OR NAVIGATOR ISLANDS.
BY ANDREW GARRETT.
The earliest notice we have of the land-shells of the Samoa Islands, was published by Dr. Gould in the "Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History" for 1846 and 1847, and subsequently redescribed and figured in the "Mollusca and Shells of the United States Exploring Expedition."
He described 14 new species.
In 1865, Prof. Mousson published in the French Journal of Conchology a list of the land and fresh-water shells of Samoa, based on the collections made by Dr. Griiffe.
He enumerated 29 species of land-shells, 14 of which were new to science.
In 1869 he published a second list in the same journal and brought the number of species up to 48, 11 of which were described as new.
In the following pages the writer records 65 species, 32 of which are endemic ; the others having a more or less extensive range throughout Polynesia.
MICROCYSTIS, Beck.
M. Upolensis, Mousson.
Nanina Upolensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 166; (Microcystis) 1869, p, 327, 1870, Var.
Oneataensis, p. 114.
(Thalassia) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 85.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 90.
Helix Upolensis, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., v. p. 108.
Helicopsis Upolensis, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 475.
Helix Samoensis, Baird, French Cruise of the Curacoa.
I gathered numerous specimens of this species in the forests back of Apia village at Upolu Island, where Dr. Griiffe found the type examples.
The Doctor subsequently discovered it at Vanua, Balavo, and Oneata in the Viti Islands.
It may be characterized by its depressed orbicular form, smooth, highly polished surface, pale horn color, 5 slightly convex whorls and slightly nodulous columella.
Diam.
62 mill.
A strictly terrestrial species, living beneath decaying leaves and under rotten wood.
M. perpolita, Mousson.
Nanina (Mici'ocystis) perpolita, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 326, pi.
14, fig.
1 ; 1870, p. 113 ; 1871, var.
solida, p. 8.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff, v!
p. 90.
Helicopsis perpolita, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, p. 475.
Helix perpolita.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., vii, p. 65.
A number of examples occured to my notice in the same station and location as the preceding species.
It is also recorded from the Tonga and Viti Islands.
It may be known by its convexly-depressed form, 4?
convex whorls, polished surface and yellowish horn-color.
Diam.
7 mill.
M. ensifera, Mousson.
Nanina (Gastrodonta) ensifera, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 328, pi.
14, fig.
2.
Helicopsis ensifera, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 475.
Helix ensifera, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., viii, p. 259.
This small species, which is unknown to me is simj^ly accredited to "Samoa" and was discovered by Di'.
Graffe.
It may be easily determined by its diminutive size (2 mill, in diam.
), depressed-globose form, thin, pellucid texture, highly polished surface, minutely perforated base and plicated columella.
Within the aperture are two lamelliform teeth, the upper submedian and the latter close to the base of the columella.
!
M. Tutuillae, Cox.
Helix Tiduillon Cox, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1870, p. 83.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., vii., p. 64.
I am unacquainted with this species which was discovered by Mr. Brazier at Tutuilla.
Dr. Cox says it is a small, imperforated, depressly-conical species of a pale brownish color, the upper parts minutely granulated, base smooth and shining, and the wide suture is canaliculated.
It has 5 rounded whorls, the last not depressed or carinated, lip thin and the aperture is roundly lunate.
"Diam.
maj. 0,12, min.
0,10, alt.
0,09, poll.
(Cox.)
TKOCHONANINA, Mousson.
T. Samoensis, Mousson.
Nanina Samoensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 165 Helix Samoensis, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., v, p. 70.
Zonites {Conula) Samoensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 331 ; 1870, p. 116; 1871, p. 10.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 86.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff, v, p. 90.
Helix Clayi, Liardet, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1876, p. 101, pi.
5, fig.
7.
Microcystis Samoensis, Garrett, Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1881, p. 384.
Not uncommon beneath decaying vegetation.
It is also found in the Tonga, Viti, Cook's and Marquesas Islands.
It may be determined by its small size (3 mill, in diam.
), perforated base, depressed turbinate form, reddish or brownish horn color, 5 strongly convex whorls and angulated periphery.
T. microconus, Mousson.
Nanina microconus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 192.
(Thalassia) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 85.
Helix microconus, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., v, p. 94.
Zonites (Comdus) microconus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1870., p. 117.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 86.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff, p. 90.
Helix Pinnocki, Liardet, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1876, p. 100, pi.
5, figs.
5, 5a.
This, like the preceding species, lives beneath decaying vegetation and is also found in the Viti and Tonga Islands.
A minute, perforated, conical, grayish horn-colored species with 5* spirally striated whorls, the last one acutely angulated and the base smooth.
T. Schmeltziana, Mousson.
Nanina Schmeltziana, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p, 167.
1869.
{Trochonanina), p. 329, pi.
14, fig.
4.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godefl"., v, p. 91.
(Thalassa) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 85.
Helix Schmeltziana, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., v, p. 58.
Trocliomorpha Schmeltziana, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
I found two examples of this delicate species on the foliage of shrubs on the low lands near the sea-shore at Upolu.
Its most essential characters are its thin delicate texture, smooth imperforated base, depressed conical form, luteous-horn color, margined suture, 52 slightly convex whorls, the last one acutely and compressly carinated.
The upper whorls are spirally striated, the striae scarcely visible withovit the aid of a lens.
Diam.
9, height 6 mill.
Mousson (in Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 30) describes a var.
usurpata which is more elevately conical and the keel not so acute.
It inhabits Savaii and is probably a distinct species.
TROCHOMOEPHA, Albers.
T. Troilus, Gould.
Helix (Carocolla) Troilus, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1846, p. 176 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 58, fig.
55, PfeifFer, Mon.
Hel., i, p. 123; iii, p. 158, (Videna) Vers., p. 132.
Chem.
ed.
2d, Helix, p. 270, pi.
109, figs.
25.
26.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 170, Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff:, v, p. 94.
Nanina {Discus) Troilus, Albers, Die Hel., ed.
2d, p. 62.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 85.
Trochomorpha Troilus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 333.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Semper, Phil, Land-Moll., ii, p. 114, pi.
12, fig.
11.
Abundant beneath decaying leaves in forests at Upolu.
This species is of a depressed turbinate form, with a moderate umbilicus, 5i convex whorls, the last one angulated and the color variable : fulvous, chestnut, corneous, luteous, unicolor or with two chestnut bands one above and one beneath the angulated periphery.
Sometimes there is only a single spiral line on the upper surface.
Diam.
18 to 20 mill.
T. tuber, Mousson.
Trochomorpha tuber, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 334, pi.
14, fig.
5, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Helix tuber, Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
GodefF., v, p. 95, Pfeiffer, Mus.
Hel., vii, p. 278.
The habitat and station is the same as the preceding species but is much more rare.
This rather small species may be characterized by its obtuse conical form, perforated base, yellowish horn color and two narrow chestnut bands, one above the other beneath the periphery.
Whorls 5 J, convexly-rounded and the last one very slightly angulated.
Diam.
12, height 9 mill.
T. subtrochiformis, Mousson.
Helix trochiformis, Gould (not of Ferussac), Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 61.
Helix Eurydice, Mousson (not of Gould), Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 170.
Trochomorpha sub-trochiformis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 335, pi.
4, fig.
6 ; 1870, var.
albo-striata, p. 122.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1871, p. 474.
Helix sub-trochiformis, Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeffl, v, p. 95.
PfeiflTer, Mon.
Hel, vii, p. 289.
Abundant at Upolu and Savaii.
A depressed pyramidal species with a moderate umbilicus, rounded apex and 5 J slightly convex whorls, the last one acutely and compressly keeled.
The rude and irregular strise of growth resemble interrupted pale scratches.
Color luteous, or straw-yellow with a dorsal and basal reddish-chestnut band.
Diam.
17 mill.
Prof. Mousson has described a variety from Kauathia, one of the A^iti Islands, under the name albo-striata.
It is probably a distinct species.
T. tentoriolum, Gould.
Helix tentoriolum, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1846, p. 176 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 63, fig.
53.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., p. 119.
Trochomorpha tentoriolum, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 335.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Dr. Gould who described this species from examples collected by the United States Exploring Expedition cites "Upolu" as its habitat.
As it has not been noticed by subsequent explorers its existence in that group certainly needs confirmation.
It is a small, trochiform pale greenish species with rounded apex and 6 flattened whorls which are beautifully striated and the last one acutely carinated.
Diam.
9, height 7 mill.
T. navigatorum, Pfeiflfer.
Helix navigatorum, Pfeiffer, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. 55 ; Mon.
Hel., iv, p. 114; (Videna) Vers., p, 132.
Reeve, Conch.
Icon., no.
1303, pi.
187.
Trochomorpha.
navigatorum, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Dr. Pfeiflfer described this species from specimens in the Cumingian Collection which were labelled "Navigator Islands."
Like the preceding species the above habitat is questionable.
Pfeiffer says "it is a moderately umbilicated, solid, lentifoi'm species of a purplish-browii, or reddish-grey color, with an obtuse, convex spire, marginated suture and 6 slightly convex whorls, the last one compressly carinated.
Diam.
I82, height 11 mill.
T. luteo-cornea, Pfeiffer.
Helix luteo-comea, PfeiflTer, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. 56 ; Mou.
Hel, iv, p. 186, (Videna) Vei-s., p. 132.
Reeve, Conch.
Icon., no.
1287, pi.
186.
This, like the preceding species, is described from specimens in Cuming's Collection, labelled "Navigator Islands."
It has not been identified by either Prof. Mousson or myself.
The description refers to a solid, lenticular, conoidal luteous-horn colored species with a moderately sized umbilicus and five regular strise.
Whorls 5, convex, the last one angulated.
T. Samoa, Hombron and Jacquinot.
Helix Samoa, Hom.
et Jacq., Voy.
Pol Sud., Zool., v, p. 11, pi.
4, figs.
28-31.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel, iv, p. 69.. Helicopsis Samoa, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 475.
This species which has not been identified since the above naturalists published their description, may possibly be a form of Gould's Troilus.
They give the habitat "Upoulon"= Upolu.
They describe it as having a medium sized umbilicus, conoidal form, rather fine striae, luteous color with two fuscous lines, and 5?
whorls, the last one subangular ; base convex, aperture lunate and the peristome simple.
Diam.
18, height 10 mill.
PATULA, Helil.
P. gradata, Gould.
Helix gradata, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1846, p. 172; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 49, fig.
48.
Pfeifier, Mon.
Hel., i, p. 104.
(^Charopa) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 90.
Discus gradatus, H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 117.
Fatula gradata, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 168 ; 1869, p. 333; 1871, p. 12.
Pitys gradata.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Common beneatli decaying vegetation and is probably distributed throughout the group.
It is common also to the Tonga Islands.
A small, orbicular, depressed, widely umbilicated species with 5 convex whorls, the last one subangulated on the margin of the broad umbilicus and the delicate striae of growth are cancellated by five revolving impressed lines.
Aperture sub-orbicular, color pale olivaceous with radiating rufous spots.
Diam.
6 mill.
P. complementaria.
Mousson.
Patula compleynentaria, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 168, pi.
14, figs.
5, 1869, p. 333.
Helix complementaria, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., v, p. 157.
(Patula) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 89.
Pitys complementaria, Yea.se, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
A rare species found beneath rotten wood and under decaying leaves in the forests back of Apia village, Upolu.
It is a little smaller than gradata and the umbilicus is only moderately open.
The spire is depressed, suture deep, whorls 5, with transverse, crowded, sharp rib-like strise.
Color corneous, tessellated and radiately striped with chestnut.
P. allecta, Cox.
Helix allecta, Cox, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1870, p. 81.
PfeifFer, Mon.
]^el., vii, p. 162.
I am unacquainted with this species which was found at Upolu.
Dr. Cox says it is a minute, depressed, orbicular reddish-chestnut species, with closely-set strong strise, 4 5 to 5 convex whorls, dee}) suture and the broad umbilicus is saucer shaped.
PITYS, Beck.
P. hystricelloides, Mousson.
Patula hystricelloides, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 169, pi.
14, fig.
6.
(Endodonta) 1869, p. 331.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
GodefF., V, p. 93.
Helix hystricelloides, PfeifFer, Mon.
Hel., v, p. 221.
{Patula) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., ^.
91.
Pitys hystricelloides, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Not uncommon under rotten Avood and beneath decaying leaves.
Upolu.
This species may be determined by its depressed rounded form, curved costulate strise, depressed spire, 5j whorls, and more particularly by the numerous laminae in the aperture, of which there are from 3 to 4 on the parietal region and 6 to 8 in the palate.
The umbilicus is about one-fifth the diameter of the shell.
Diam.
4i mill.
P. GraeiFei, Mousson.
Patula (Endodonta) Graeffei, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 332, pi.
14, fig.
3.
Helix Graffei, Pfeifier, Mon.
Hel., vii, p. 258.
Pitys Graffei, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
I am not acquainted with this species which was found at Upolu by Dr. Griiflfe.
It is a little larger than the preceding species, with a more open nmbilicus, 5 whorls, and 2 laminae on the parietal wall and 5 in the palate.
"Diam.
5-2 mill.
STENOGYRA, Shuttleworth.
S. Tuckeri, Pfeiffer.
Bidimus Tuckeri, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1846, p. 30 ; Mon.
Hel., ii, p. 158; ( Ojoeas) Vers., p. 156, Reeve, Conch.
Icon., jil.
68, sp.
481.
{Opeas) Cox, Mon.
Aust.
Land Shells, p. 69, pi.
13, fig.
9, Brazier, Quar.
Jour.
Conch., i, p. 272.
Stenogyra Tuckeri, Albers, Die Hel., ed.
2d.
p. 265.
{Opeas) Frauenfeld, Verh.
Zool.-Bot.
Wien, xix, p. 873.
Pease.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 473.
Garrett, Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1881, p. 393, 1885, p. 43.
Bulimus junceus, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1846, p. 191; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 76, fig.
87.
Pfeiffer, Mus.
Hel., ii, p. 220.
Stenogyra juncea, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 340.
Pease Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 93 ; Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 473.
(Opeas) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 104.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff"., v, p. 90.
Garrett, Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1879, p. 19.
Bulimus Walli, Cox, Cat.
Aust.
Land Shells, p. 24.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., vi, p. 99.
Stenogyra Upolensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 175.
(Obeliscus) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 104.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff*., iv, p, 29.
Bulimus Upolensis, Pfeiffer.
Mon.
Hel., iv, p. 100.
Bulimus Fanayensis, Pfeiifer, Proc Zool.
Soc, 1846, p. 33 ; Mon.
Hel., ii, p. 156; (Opeas) Vers., p. 156.
Reeve, Conch.
Icon., pi.
14, no.
76.
(Oyt>ea.5) Albers, Die Hel, p. 175.
Subulina Panayensis, H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. iii.
Semper, Phil.
Land-Moll, ii, p. 137, pi.
8, fig.
15.
Stenogyra Panayensis, (Opeas), Albers, Die Hel., ed.
2d., p. 265.
Martens, Ostas.
Zool., ii, p. 83, (Siam), 376, pi.
22, fig.
8.
(Opeas) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 104.
Bulimus diaphanus, Gassies (not of Pfeiffer), Jour, de Conch., 1859, p. 370.
Bulimus Souverhianus, Gassies, Faune Nouv.
Caled., p. 52, pi.
2, fig.
5.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., vi., p. 98.
Bulimus Artensis, Gassies, Jour, de Conch., 1866, p. 50.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel.
vi, p. 98.
Stenogyra riovemgyrata, Mousson, Jour, de Concli., 1870, p. 126.
(Subulina), Paetel, Cat.
Couch., p. 104.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., V, p. 90.
Bulimus novemgyratus, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., viii, p. 138.
Stenogyra gyrata, Moussou MS., iu Mus.
GodefFroy, 1885.
This species, which is distributed over a Larger geographical area than any other species of land-shell, is diffused throughout all parts of Polynesia, the low coral islands as well as the more elevated groups, and ranges throughout Melanesia, Micronesia, Australasia,.
Moluccas, Philippines, Guam, Ceylon, Siam, Cochin China, China, and probably extends its range as far as the East coast of Africa.
Since the publication of my paper on the Society Island landshells I have received from Mr. E. L. Layard, examples of Bulimus: Souverbianus and B. Artemis,hoth of which are identical with Polynesian specimens of S. Tuekeri.
Through the kindness of Dr. Hungerford, of Hong Kong, I have been enabled to compare Pfeiffer's Bulimus Panayensis with JB.
Tuekeri and cannot detect a single character to separate the two species.
I am strongly inclined to believe that the West Indian Stenogyra subula, Pfr., is a form of the Polynesian S. Tuekeri, and was accidentally imported with the Tahitian bread-fruit plants nearly 100 years ago.
M. M. Crosse and Fischer (Jour, de Conch., 1863, p. 361), record the West Indian Bulimus subula from Cochin China, and give a good figure of the same, which is, undoubtedly, the ubiquitous S. Tuekeri.
1 reproduce their remarks as follows : "Cette espece provient de Saigon et de Fuyen-Moth, oii elle a ete recueillie, par M. Michau, dans les fosses, dans la terre et sous les herbes.
II peut sembler tres-extraordinaire de retrouver en Cochinchine une espece des Antilles, qui n' a guere ete signalee jusqu' ici qu'a Cuba, a la Jamaique et a Saint-Thomas.
Pour ne conserver aucun doute a son egard, nous avons cru devoir soumettre un individu authentique a 1' examen de M. Pfeiffer, qui a cree 1' espece.
II faut done accepter le fait, qui peut etre, au reste, seulement un accident d' acclimatation : la petitesse et la Icgerete de la coquille en question rendent cette supposition vraisemblable."
I have lately received from Dr. Hungerford, several examples of Stenogyras, labelled " Opeas subulata Pfr., Hong Kong" which differed none from the Polynesian S. Tuekeri.
This species, which is chiefly confined to the low-lands near the sea-shore, is found beneath decaying vegetation and under loose stones.
It may be easily recognized by its small size, subcylindrical form, thin texture and pale horn color.
The animal is pale yellow.
PAKTULA, Terussac.
P. Actor, Albers.
Partulus actor, Albers, Die Hel., p. 187.
Pa/Hula actor, Chem.
ed.
2d., pi.
48, figs.
13, 14.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel, iii, p. 450.
Hartman, Cat.
Part., p. 12 ; Obs.
Gen. Part.
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., p. 179 ; Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1885, p. 220.
Partula Recluziana, Petit, Jour, de Conch., 1850, p. 170, pi.
7, fig.
5.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., iii, p. 452.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 339.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 104.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff:, V, p. 91.
Partula zebrina, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1848. p. 196 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 82, fig.
89.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel, iii., p. 450.
This species, which is unknown to me, inhabits Tutuila.
It may be distinguished by its ovate-conical form, whitish or pale fulvous color, ornamented with more or less flexuous paler lines.
Length 19 mill.
P. expansa, Pease.
Partula expansa, Pease, Amer.
Jour.
Conch., 1871, p. 26, pi 9, fig.
3 ; Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 473 {extensa in err.).
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel, viii, p. 203.
Hartman.
Cat.
Part., p. 13 ; Obs.
Gen.
Part., Bui Mus.
Comp.
Zool, p. 182; Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1885, p. 212.
Partula zebrina, Mousson (not of Gould), Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 173, 1869, p. 339.
This charming species, which is not uncommon on foliage at Upolu, maybe distinguished by its white color and spiral opaque-white interrupted lines.
The spire is moderately produced, the last whorl ventricose, obliquely produced and the base exhibits a large umbilicus.
The peristome is broadly and flatly expanded.
Length 19 mill Mr. Pease, on the authority of Mr. Brazier cites Tutuila as its habitat.
P. canalis, Mousson.
Partula canalis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 172 ; 1869, p 337 (var.
semilineata).
Pfeifier, Mon.
Hel., vi, p. 155.
Pease Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 473.
Paetel, Cat.Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 91 Partula Bulimoides, Hartmau (not of Lesson), Cat.
Gen. Part, pp., 12, 13 with Avood cut; Obs.
Gen. Part, Mus.
Comp.
Zool., p 180.
Partula cornica, Gould (part), Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 196.
Hartman, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1885, p. 222.
Not infrequent on foliage at Upolu.
The variety was found by Dr. Griifte at Tutuila.
A fine large sinistral species, 29 mill.
long, elongate conical in shape, of a fulvous-brown color with darker tinted spire.
Aperture large ; peristome whitish, broadly expanded, slightly reflexed and a deep transverse sulcation marks the upper part of the columella lip.
The fine spiral incised lines which are very distinct on the whole surface of P. conica are only visible on the boundaries of the open umbilicus and on the apical whorls.
P. abbreviata, Mousson.
PaHula abbreviata, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 339, pi.
14, fig.
7.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 473.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 104.
Schmeltz Cat.
Mus.
Godeff, v, p. 91.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., viii, p. 200.
Hartman, Cat.
G^n.
Part., p. 13; Obs.
Gen.
Part., Bui.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., p. 179.
This fine species which is unknown to me was found at Tutuila by Dr. Graffe.
An ovate, thin, pale horn colored species closely allied to but much more abbreviated than P. conica.
Prof. Mousson says it is intermediate betAveen the latter species and P. canalis.
Length 21 mill.
P. conica, Gould.
Partula conica, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 196 ; Expl.
Exp.
Shells, p. 81.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., iii, p. 445.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 171.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 473.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 104.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., V, p. 91.
Hartman, Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1885, p. 222.
Partxda TJpolen^is, "Mousson" Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., no.
1.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 104.
Partula Bulimoides, Hartinau (not of Lesson), Cat.
Gen. Part.
p. 12 ; Obs.
Gen. Part.
Bui.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., p. 108.
Not uncommon on foliage at Upolu and Tutuila.
A dextral oblong-conical, luteous-horn colored species, smaller than the sinistral P. canalis, with five convex whorls and rather large aperture.
Lip Avhite and broadly expanded.
Length 23 to 24 mill.
P. Brazieri, Pease.
Partula Brazieri, Pease, Amer.
Jour.
Conch., 1871, p. 27, pi.
9, fig.
5; Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 473.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel.
viii, p. 194.
"Tutuila" (Brazier).
Mr. Pease received a single example of this species from Mr. Brazier who says it was the only specimen found at the above mentioned locality.
Dr. Hartman, who has examined the type specimen in the Museum of the Philadelphia Academy, refers it to the synonomy of P. Caledonica a New Hebrides species.
Judging from the figure of Brazieri it certainly has a strong resemblance to the New Hebrides Partula.
I doubt it having been obtained at Tutuila.
TORNATELLINA, Beck.
T. oblonga, Pease.
Tornatellina oblonga, Pease, Proc.
Zool, Soc, 1864, p. 673 ; 1871, p. 473; Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 93.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel, vi, p. 264.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff*., v, p. 89.
Garrett, Proc.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1879, p. 21 ; Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1881, p. 398.
Tornatellina bacillar is, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 16, pi.
3, fig.
5.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff"., v, pp.
89, 90.
Pfeiffer, Mon, Hel.
viii, p. 316.
Stenogyra (Subulina) bacillaris, Paetel, Cat, Conch,, p. 104, Inhabits all the groups from the Paumotu to the Viti Islands, and was found by Dr. Graffe on the low coral islands of the Ellice's group in "Central Pacific."
On the ground in forests.
This species may be distinguished by its imperforated base, slender form, thin pellucid texture, fuscous-horn color, 6 whorls, and nearly vertical simple columella.
Length 42 mill.
T. conica, Mousson.
Tornatellina conica, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 342, pi.
14, fig.
8; 1871 (yar.
impressa), p. 16.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1861, p. 473.
PfeifFer, Mon.
Hel., viii, p. 316.
Garrett, Proc.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1879, p. 21 ; Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1881, p. 599 ; 1884, p. 81, Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 89.
Oionella conica, Paetel, Cat.
Conch, p. 116.
Has the same range and station as the preceding species.
It is more robust and lighter colored than oblonga, the spire more taperino", body-whorl larger, more compressed, parietal laminae more prominent and the columella more twisted than in that species.
STJCCINEA, Draparnaud.
S. putamen, Gould.
Succinea putamen, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1846, p. 183 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 13, fig.
16.
Pfeiffer, Mus.
Hel., ii, p. .522.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 174; (Amphibulima) 1869, p. 343.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 472.
(Amphibulima) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 113.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 89.
Omalonyx putamen, H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 131.
Common on foliage at Upolu.
This fine large species may be distinguished by its depressed ovate form, thin texture, fulvous-horn color, very short spire, U whorls, the last one with irregular, interrupted impressed striai.
Aperture very large, roundly-ovate, and the columella subplicated.
Length 17, Diam.
12?
mill.
S. crooata,Gould.
Succinea crocata, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1846, p. 183 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 28, fig.
21.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., ii, p. 520.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 174 ; (Amphibulima) 1869, p. 343.
H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 128.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 113.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 472.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff'.,v, p. 89.
Abundant at Upolu.
A large species of a rather thin texture, ovate-globose form, fulvous-horn color, 2i whorls, the last one very large, usually with revolving impressed lines.
Spire short.
Length 19, diam.
13 mill.
S. modesta, Gould.
iSuccinea modesta, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1846, p. 186 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 23, fig.
24.
Pfeiffer, Mou.
Hel, ii, p. 521, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 174 ; (Amphibulima) 1869, p. 343.
H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 129.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 472.
(Brachijspira) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 113.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
GodefF., v, p. 89 Succiuea Cheynei, Dohrn, MS.
I found this species abundant on the ground in a forest at Upolu.
Its small size (9 mill, long), ovate form, thin texture, luteoushorn color, moderate spire, and 3 whorls will readily distinguish it.
S. Manua, Gould.
Sucdnea Manua, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1846, p. 185 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 25, fig.
23.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel, ii, p. 520.
H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 129.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 472.
Said to inhabit Manua Island.
Gould says it is a small, ovate, ventricose, thin, straw-colored species, with an obtuse spire, 2 2 whorls, deep suture and marked by longitudinal striae and transverse rugosities.
Length 10 mill.
VERTIGO, Muller.
V. pediculus, Shuttlcwoith.
Pupa pediculus, Shuttleworth, Bern.
Mitth.
1852, }).
296.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., iii, p. 557.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff"., v. 89.
Mousson (var.
Samoe7isis), Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 175.
Vertigo pediculus, Pfeiffer, Vers., p. 177.
(Alaa) H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 172.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 341.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, pp.
463, 474.
Garrett, Proc Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1879, p. 19 ; Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
ScL, 1881, p. 400.
Pupa Samoensis, "Mss."
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff'., iv.
p. 108.
(Sphyradium) Paetel, Cat.
Conch, p. 108.
Pupa nitens, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1860, p. 439.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., vi, p. 335.
Vertigo nitens.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, pp.
463, 474.
Pujxi hyalina, "Zelebor," Pfeiffer.
Mon.
Hel., vi, p. 329.
Vertigo hyalina.
Pease, Proc Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Vertigo nacca, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc, Nat.
Hist., 1862, p. 280 ; Otia Conch., p. 237, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, pp.
463, 474.
Pupa nacca, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., vi, p. 330.
10 Common to all the Polynesian groups.
Its minute size, ovate-oblong shape, hyaline texture, obtuse spire, rounded aperture, and the thin slightly expanded lip will readily distinguish it.
There are usually 5 denticles in the aperture.
V. tantilla, (louid.
Pupa ( Vertigo) tantilla, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 197, Pfeiffer, Mon.
HeL, iii, p. 557.
( Vertigo) Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1870, p. 127.
( Vertigo) Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeft:, iv, p. 69.
(Pupinella) Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 108.
Vertigo tantilla, Gould, Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 92, fig.
103.
{Alaa) H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., iii, p. 172.
Pease.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, pp.
460, 463, 474.
Garrett, Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1881, p. 400.
Pupa pleurophora, Shuttleworth, Bern.
Mittheil., 1852, p. 296.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., iii, p. 560.
Vertigo jyleurophora, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Pupa Dunkeri, "Zelebor" Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., vi, p. 333.
Vertigo Dunherl, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 474.
Vertigo armata, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, pp.
461, 474.
Pupa armata, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., viii, p. 407.
Vertigo dentifera.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, pp.
462, 474.
Pupa dentifera, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Hel., viii, p. 408.
Ranges from the Society to the Viti Islands.
This and the preceding species are found beneath rotten wood, under stones and amongst decaying leaves.
In shape it varies from an ab])reviate-ovate to oblong-oval, and they vary to a greater or less degree in the relative proportion of the whorls.
Color pale corneous under a brownish more or less distinctly shagreened epidermis, which in perfect examples is furnished with oblique membranous riblets.
The last whorl behind the peristome is frequently bisulcate.
MELAMPUS, M..ntf<.it.
M. luteus, Quoy aud Gaimard.
Auricula lutea, Quoy and Gaimard, Voy.
Astrol., ii, p. 163, pi.
6, figs.
25-27.
Deshayes, Lam.
Hist., viii., p. 338.
Kuster, Auric, p. 39, pi.
6, figs.
1-3.
Mousson, Jav.
Moll., p. 47, pi.
5, fig.
6.
Conovulus luteus, Anton, Verz., j).
48.
Melampus luteus, Beck, Ind., p. 106.
M. E. Gray, Figs.
Moll.
Anim., pi.
306, fig.
5, H. and A. Adams, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. 10 ; Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 243.
Pfeiffer, Syn.
Auric, no.
30 ; Mon.
Auric, i, p. 36.
Morch, Cat.
Yold., p. 38.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 346.
Martens and Langk.
Don.
Bism., p. 55.
Gassies, Faun, Nouv.
Culed., p. 62.
Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 93 ; Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 477.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 114.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeft:, v, p. 88.
Garrett, Proc.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1879, p. 28 .
Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1881, p. 402.
Abundant just above high-water mark and ranges from the Gambler Islands to the East Indies.
This species may be easily recognized by its large size (18 mill.)
and uniform luteous color.
M. fasciatus, Deshayes.
Auricula fasciata, Deshayes, Encycl.
Meth., ii, p. 90; Lam.
Hist., viii, p. 337.
Kuster, Auric, pi.
a, figs.
2, 3.
Mousson, Jav.
Moll., p. 46, pi.
5, figs.
28-29.
Melampus fasciatus, Beck, lud.
Moll., j^.
107.
(Tralia) H. and A. Adams, Proc Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. ii.
Pfeiffer, Syn.
Auric, no.
33 ^ Mon, Auric, i, p. 38, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 348.
Pease, Proc.
Zool, Soc, 1871, p. 477.
Martens and Langk,, Don, Bism,, p, 55, Paetel, Cat, Conch,, p, 114.
Schmeltz, Cat, Mus.
GodefF., V, p. 88.
Garrett, Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat, Sci., 1881, p. 402.
Conovulus fasciatus, Griffith, Cuv.
Anim.
King., pi.
27, fig.
13.
Anton, Verz,, pi, 48.
Guerin, Icon.
Moll,, pi, 17, pi, 7, fig.
8.
Tralia (Pira) fasciata, H, and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 240.
Auricula trifasciata, Kuster, Auric, p. 38, pi.
5, figs.
15-17.
Melmnpus trifasciatus, Pfeifter, Syn, Aurica., no, 38 ; Mon, Auric, i, p. 43, H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll,, ii, p, 243, Gassies, Faun.
Nouv.
Caled,, p, 63, Cox, "Exchange List," p. 33.
Brazier, Quar.
Jour, Conch,, i, p, 274, Auricula monile, Quoy and Gaimard, Voy, AstroL, ii, p, 166, pi.
13, figs, 28-33.
Potiez and Michaud, Gal.
Douai., i, p. 208.
Reeve, Conch.
Syst., ii, pi, 187, fig, 8, Cassidula f monile, M, E, Gray, Figs, Moll.
Anim., p. 306, figs.
1011.
(Ex.
Q. and G.) This, like the preceding species lives just above high-water mark and has the same extensive geographical range.
It is subject to considerable variation in form, color and fasciation.
The type varies from bluish-white to luteous and girdled by four to six narrow chestnut bands.
Varieties of a uniform bluish-white, corneous, brownish or orange-brown are not infrequent, as well as one of an orange-brown with three chestnut bands.
The spire is marked with minute radiating grooves which are very faintly expressed or very conspicuous, sometimes covering the whole spire or only visible at the apex.
Length 11 to 14 mill.
M. parvulus, Nuttall.
Melampus parvulus, Nuttall, MS., Pfeiffer, Syn.
Auric, no.
11; Mon.
Auric, p. 24.
H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 243.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 477.
Martens and Langk.
Don.
Bism., p. 56, pi.
3. fig.
10.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 114.
Brazier, Quar.
Jour, Conch., i, p. 247.
Common on the margins of mangrove swam})s. Also common in the Tonga and Viti Islands.
Mr. Nuttall obtained the type specimens at the Sandwich Islands.
It not only inhabits New Caledonia but ranges west as far as Torres' Strait, where it was found by Mr. Brazier.
The Samoa specimens which are a little smaller than Nuttall's type, differ none from the latter except having one or two more denticles or plicse on the parietal region, and the base is more distinctly, impressly striated, It may be I'ecognized by its ovate shape, smooth shining surface, dark-chestnut, or olive brown color, short convexly conoid spire and mucronated apex.
On the lower portion of the parietal region may be observed two approximating folds, the lower one the smaller and occasionally wanting.
There are usually one or two small denticles above, and the palate has 5 to 7 laminae.
The columellar fold is continuous with the basal portion of the peristome.
Length 7-9 mill.
M. Tongaensis, Mousson.
Melampus Tongaensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 22, pi.
3, fig.
8.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godefi"., v, p. 88.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 31d.
A few examples found in the same station as the preceding species.
Common also in the Tonga and Viti Islands.
Very closely allied to, and perhaps only a form of 3f.
parvulus.
It is about the same size and color, but is a little more oblong and the spire is more produced.
The fold and dentition is the same in the two species.
M. semisulcatus, Mousson.
Melampus semisulcatus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 347, pi.
15, fig.
2, Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 1 14.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff"., V, p. 88.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 318.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 477.
Common on the margins of mangrove swamps.
Occurs also in the Tonga and Viti Islands.
This species is of an oblong pear-shape, uniform cinnamon color, spire short, usually eroded, spirally grooved, the grooves more or less evanescent on the middle of" the body-whorl.
There are three folds on the parietal region and usually two laminae in the palate.
Length 11 mill.
II .
striatus, Pease.
Melatnpus striatus.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1861, p. 244; 1871, p. 477.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 311.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Oodeff., V, p. 88.
Melampus Montrouzieri, Souverbie, Jour, de Conch., 1866, p. 148, pi.
6, fig.
1, la.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 312.
Melampus ornatus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 21, pi.
3, fig.
7.
Pfeiffer, Mon, Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 312.
A few examples found on the margins of swamps at Upolu.
It also inhabits the Society, Tonga and Viti Islands as well as New Caledonia.
It may be distinguished by its oblong-ovate form, brownish-corneous, chestnut-brown or greenish-brown color, mucronated spire, 8 whorls, marked by closelyset transverse impressed lines, and the upper half with small longitudinal plications which give that part of the shell a granulated appearance.
The transverse lines are frequently evanescent on the middle of the body-whorl.
There are from two to three folds on the parietal region, the upper one small and granuliform.
There may be observed one to three lamelliform plications in the palate, and, sometimes with several raised white parallel striae.
Length 9-10 mill.
M. castaneus, Muhlfeld.
Valuta castanea, Muhlfeld, Mag, Ges.
Nat, Fr.
Berl., vii, 1818, p. 4,pl.
l,fig.
2.
..... Auricula castanea, Philippi, Zeits.
Malak.
1851, p. 54.
Melampus castaneus, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Auric, p. 30.
Mousson, Jour.
de Conch., 1869, p. 349, Prof, Mousson records this species in his Samoan list.
It did not occur to my notice.
LAIMODONTA, Nuttall.
L. Layardi, H. and A. Adams.
Ophicardelus Layardi {Laimodonta), H. Jind A. Adams, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. 35.
Laimodonta Layardi, H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 246.
Melampus Layardi, Pfeiffer, Syn.
Auric, no.
48 ; Mon.
Auric, p. 51.
Gassies, Faun.
jSTouv.
Caled., p. 61, pi.
7, fig.
7.
Tennent's Ceylon, i, p. 239.
Cox, "Exchange List," p. 33.
H. Nevill, Enura.
Hel.
etc., Ceylon, 1871, p. 4.
Laimodonta conica, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1862, p. 242 ; Amer.
Jour.
Conch., 1868, p. 101, pi.
12, fig.
15; Jour, de Conch., 1871, pp.
93, 94.
Proc, Zool.
Soc, 1871. pp.
470, 477.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godefi:, V, p. 81.
Garrett, Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1881, p. 403.
Laemodonta conica, Martens and Langk., Don.
Bism., p. 57, pi.
3, fig.
13.
Laimodonta Anaaends, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 63. pi.
5, fig.
1.
Pleeotrema Anaaensis, Paetel, Cat.
Couch., p. 114.
Melampus conicus, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 319.
"f Melamjnis Anaaensis, Pfeiffer, 1. c, p. 320.
A few beach-worn specimens found at Upolu.
Ranges from the Paumotu Islands to the East Indies.
This species is acuminately-ovate, rather solid, spirally striated by incised lines, spire rather long, acute ; color chestnut-brown, with one or two transverse whitish bands.
Parietal region with two plaits, one on the columella and one or two in the palate.
Length 6 to 82 mill.
CASSIDULA, Ferussac.
C. crassiuscula, Mousson.
Cassidula crassiuscula, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 343, pi.
15, fig.
1.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 114.
Pease, Proc Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 477.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
GodeflT., v, p. 88.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 352.
Auricula (Cassidula) crassiuscula, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 191.
Cassidula nucleus, Gassies, (Marty n ?
), Faun.
Nouv.
Caled., p. 71, pi.
3, fig.
9.
Common on the mud in mangrove swamps, and inhabits the Tonga, Viti and the islands in Melanesia.
A thick, broadly ovate, imperforate species, Avith fine spiral impressed striae and short conical spire.
Color different shades of chestnut-brown, white, corneous, fulvous, frequently with from one to four transverse bands on the body-Avhorl, and more rarely with a sutural livid band.
Aperture pale fulvous, brownish or white, and the lip light fulvous or white.
Length 10 to 16 mill.
C. paludosa, Garrett.
Ophicardelus jyaludosus, Garrett, Amer.
Jour.
Conch., 1872, p. 220, pi.
19, fig.
8.
Cassidula paludosa, Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 114.
Plecotrema paludosa, Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 87.
Melampus paludosus, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 327.
A few specimens found in mangrove swamps at Upolu.
Common in the Viti group.
A small, solid, ovate, whitish, yellowish-horn colored, or chestnutbrown species, with fine, spiral, incised punctured lines and carinated base.
Spire convexly conical and more produced than in the preceding species.
Length 8 to 10 mill.
PYTHIA, Bolten.
P. tortuosa, Mous!<on.
^ Pythia tortuosa, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 19, pi.
3, fig.
6.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 114.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 87.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 339.
Nevill, List.
Moll.
Ind.
Mus., p. 221.
Cox, Proc Lin.
Soc.
X. S. W., 1881, p. 618.
Common on the margins of mangrove swamps at Upolu.
Dr. Graffe collected examples at Futuna and Wallis Island in the northern part of the Tonga group.
This species which ranges from 18 to 25 mill, in length, is luteous horn-color, with small irregular chestnut-brown maculations ; sometimes uniform chestnut-black or corneous, and the varices are spotted with dark chestnut and white.
The base is either imperforated or rimate.
The aperture is luteous, rarely brownish, and the jieristome is usually mottled.
The columellar fold is generally continuous with the basal portion of the peristome, and the lower parietal plait is simple.
P. Savaiensis, Mousson.
Pythia pantherina, A. Adams, var.
Uveana, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 177.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., iii, p. 28.
Pease, Proc Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 477.
Paetal, Cat.
Conch., p. 114.
Pfeiffer, Mod.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 848.
Cox, Proc.
Lin.
Soc, N. S. W., 1881, p. 607.
Pythia Savaiensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 845 ; 1870, p. 183.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 477.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
GodefF., V, p. 87.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 841.
Cox.
Proc Lin.
Soc N. S. W., 1881, p. 618.
Nevill, List, Moll.
Ind.
Mus.
p. 228.
This species was found at Savaii by Dr. Grafte.
I gathered numerous examples at AVallis Island and in the Viti group.
In forests near the sea-shore.
A solid, ovate, umbilicated (rarely imperforate), species 21 to 28 mill, long, of a corneous or yellowish-horn color, mottled with chestnut, rarely uniform light or dark chestnut and the varices spotted with white.
Aperture luteous.
A larger and inore solid shell than the preceding species.
AURICULA, Lamarck.
A. subula, <in<i.V ;nicl (xainuird.
Auricula subida, Quoy and Gaimard, Voy.
Astrol., ii, p. 171, pi.
18, figs.
89, 40.
Deshayes, Lam.
Hist., viii, p. 834.
Kuster, Auric, p. 53, pi.
8, figs.
9, 10.
Jay, Cat.
Shells, 1850, p. 265.
A. Adams and Reeve, Voy.
Samarang, p. 55, pi.
14, fig.
15, with animal.
Pfeifter, Auric, no.
147; Mon.
Auric, i, p. 141.
Gassies, Faun.
Nouv.
Caled., p. 69.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 115.
Pythia subula, Beck, Ind.
Moll., p. 104.
Ellohium subula, H. and A. Adams, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. 8 .
Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 287.
Auricula elom/ata, "Parreyss" Kuster, Auric, p. 58, pi.
8, figs.
69.
Jay, Cat.
Sliells, 1850, p. 264.
Pfeifter, Auric, no.
146; Mon.
Auric, i, p. 140.
Morelet, Ser.
Conch., p. 93.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 18.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 115.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
GodeflT., v, p. 88.
Auricula Buddii, Parreyss, MS. Ellobium elouf/ufum, H. and.
A. Adams, Proc Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. 9i Gen.
Moll., ii, ]).
237.
Ellobium Oparicuin, H. and A. Adams, Proc Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. 9 ; Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 287.
Auricula Oparica, Pfeifter, Mon.
Auric, i p. 189; Syn.
Auric, no.
46 ; Novit.
Conch., i, p. 28, pi.
7, figs.
14-16.
Auriculus subulus, Pfeifter, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 860.
Auriculus elongatus, Pfeifter, 1. c Aricalus Oparicus, Pfeiffer, 1. e. A few small examples found on the margin of a swamp at Upolu.
It occurs in the Tonga and Viti Islands and ranges west as far an the East Indies.
Mo relet records it from the island of Mauritius.
A small species, 9 to 16 mill, long, of a slender fusiform shape, smooth, shining surface, acute conical spire (which is frequently truncated by erosion); color white beneath an epidermis which varies from pale olivaceous-horn color to chestnut-black.
The body whorl is narrow, usually longer than the spire, attenuated or rounded at the base, and the collimella is furnished with two, small, approximating, oblique folds.
A compressed subtransverse plait on the loweipart of the parietal region.
S. semisculpta, II.
and A. Adams.
Ellohium semiscidptuni, H. and A. Adams, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1854, p. 9 ; Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 237.
Aurkula semisculpta, Pfeiffer, Syn.
Auric, no.
139 ; Mon.
Auric, i, p. 136 ; Novit, Conch., i, p. 39. pi.
10, figs.
7-9.
Gassies, Faun.
Nouv.
Caled., p. 70, pi.
3, fig.
11.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godefl?
!, v, p. 88.
Auriculus .seiisct(^jo^u.s, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
(Auric), iv, p. 359.
A few dead specimens of small size found on the margin of a mangrove swamp at Upolu.
It is also common at Wallis Island and very abundant and of large size at the Viti group, where they were found buried in rotten logs in swamps.
This species varies considerably in shape, thickness, and in size, ranging from 12 to 30 mill, in length.
The surface is shining, longitudinally striated, and the upper j)ortions of the whorls are sculptured by crowded S2)iral rows of minute granules, which, in the adult sometimes cover the whole surface of the body-whorl.
The shape of the shell varies froin oblong-ovate to oblong-turreted, the spire more or less produced, and the color is white beneath a fulvous-yellow or yellowish-horn colored epidermis.
The parietal region exhibits a prominent, compressed, oblique fold and just beneath is a .smaller and more vertical one on the columella.
TRTJNCATELLA, Risso.
T. valida, Pfeiffer.
Truncatella valida, Pfeiffer, Zeit.
Malak., 1846, p. 182; Mon.
Auric, (appendix), i, p. 184.
Jay, Cat.
Shells, 1854, p. 253.
Kuster, Mon., p. 11, pi.
2, figs.
7, 8, 19-21, 23.
H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 311.
Martens, Ostas, Zool, ii, p. 262.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 118.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 477.
TrmicaieUa Vitiana, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 208 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 109, fig.
126 ; Otia, Conch., p. 40.
H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 6.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 356; 1870, p. 195.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 118.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 104.
Truncatella Vitiaoea, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 185.
Taheltla Vitiana, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 477.
Truncatella conspieua, "Bronn," PfeifFfer, Mon.
Auric, (appendix), i, p. 184.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 118.
Layard, Cat.
Land and Freshwater Shells, N.
Coaled., p. 1.
Common just above high-water mark in sheltered places.
It occurs also in Tonga, Ellis and Yiti groups, and is diffused throughout Melanesia and the East India Islands.
A solid, slightly tapering, cylindrical shell, of a white, luteoas, corneous, or ruddy corneous color, with 4* slightly convex persistent whorls.
The sculpture consists of nearly erect, obtuse ribs (25 to 35), on the body whorl.
Peristome slightly auriculate at the suture.
Length 6 to 8 mill.. MOUSSONIA, 0.
Semper.
M. typica, 0.
Semper.
Pupa problematica, Mousson, Jour, de Couch., 1865, p. 176.
Moussonia typica, O. Semper, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 296.
Crosse, Jour, de Conch., 1866, p. 354, pi.
10, fig.
9.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 118.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeffi, v, p. 102.
Paxillus {Moussonia) typica, INIousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 355.
Diplommatina prohlematica (Moussonia), Stoliczka, Jour.
Asiat.
Soc, 1871, p. 156.
{Moussonia), Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum.
iv, p. 92.
A minute conical, dark colored species with turreted spire, 7 obliquely costulate whorls and small, rounded aperture and a columella tooth.
Found at X^polu l)y Dr. Griiffe.
OSTODES, Gould.
0. tiara.
Gould.
Oyclostoma tiara, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 204; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 101, fig.
116.
(3/cfojt)/iorMS ftoro, Pfeiffer, Consp.
Cycles., no.
116; Mon.
Pueum.^ i, p. 84.
Gray, Cat.
Phan., p. 58.
Moussou, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 179 ; (Ostodes) 1869, p. 350.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 120.
Ostodes tiara, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1862, p. 240.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 475.
Not uncommon at Upolu, where it was found at an altitude of "1.000 metres" by Dr. Gniffe.
Its large size (18 to 20 mill, in diam.
), depressed turbinate form, dull greyish-horn color beneath a luteous, or horn-colored epidermis, 5 convex whorls, the last one subcarinated, and the fine spiral lirations will readily distinguish it.
0.
Btrigatus, Gould.
Cyclostoma strigatuvi, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 204 ; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 102, fig.
117.
Chemn.
ed.
2d.
p. 302, pi.
40, figs.
15, 16.
Cydophorus strigahis, PfeifFer, Cons^).
Cyclos., no.
115; Mon.
Pneum., i, p. 83.
Gray, Cat.
Phan., p. 58.
H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 280.
Reeve, Conch.
Icon., pi.
14, fig.
58.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 179 ; ( Ostodes), 1869, p. 350.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 120.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godefi'., v, p. 99.
Ostodes strigatus, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
1861, p. 283.
Cyclostoma plicatum, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 205 ; Exp.
Exp.
ShelLs, p. 103, fig.
118.
Cydophorus plicatus, Pfeiffer, Consp.
Cyclos., no.
114 ; Mon..
Pneum., iv, p. 115.
Reeve, Conch.
Icon., pi., 14, fig.
58.
(Ostodes} Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 350.
Ostodes jdicatus, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1861, p. 283.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 475.
Cydostoma Apice, Recluz, Jour, de Conch., 1851, ^^.
213, pi.
6, figs.
10, 10.
CydopJiorus Apice, Pfeiffer, INIon.
Pneum., i, p. 83.
Gray, Cat.
Phan., p. 57.
H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 279.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 119.
Cydostoma pulverulentum, Philippi, Chemnitz, ed.
2d.
p. 301, pL 40, figs.
13, 14.
Cydophorus jndverulentus, Pfeifier, Consp.
Cyclos., no.
114.
Cyclostoma albida, Hombron and Jacquinot, Voy.
Pol.
Sud.
Zool.,, V, p. 50, pi.
12, figs.
25-28.
Cyclophoms ?
albidus, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Piieuin., ii, p. 60.
Abundant beneath decaying vegetation at Upolu, Tutuila and Savaii.
This variable species may be recognized by its rude solid texture, more or less globose form, cinereous, or ruddy-horn color, 5 convex whorls, the last one rounded and more or less distinctly angulated on the margin of the moderate umbilicus.
The sculpture consists of spiral, irregular, elevated lines which are frequently evanescent on the last whorl, and in the form known as plicatus, Gld., have the whorls transversely obliquely plicated.
The spire is more or less elevated.
The diameter varies from 8 to 12 mill.
0.
Upolensis, Mousson.
Cydophonis Upolends, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 180 ; (Ostodes) 1869, p. 852.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 120.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum., iv, p. 115.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 99.
Ostodes Upolensis, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 475.
Common beneath decaying vegetation at Upolu.
A small, thin, whitish, depressed, conoid species with 42 convex whorls, the last one rounded or slightly angulated, and all with spiral elevated lines ; sometimes the whorls are rudely plicated.
The umbilicus is large and the margin is angulated.
Diam.
7'} mill.
0. adjunctus, Mousfion.
Cydophonis (Ostodes) adjunctus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 351, pi.
14, fig.
9.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum., iv, p. 114.
Ostodes adjundus, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 475.
Found at Tutuila by Dr. Griiffe .
This species is widely unibilicated, rather solid, depressly-conical, whitish, with 4'.
slightly convex whorls, the last one carinated, and all with s|)iral elevated lines.
Diam.
9 mill, 0, 1 Brazieri, Cox.
Cydostoma Brazieri, Cox, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1870, p. 85.
Cydotus ?
Brazieri, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum., iv, p. 36.
This species, which is unknown to me, was found by Mr, Brazier at Upolu.
The following is Cox's description as given by Mr. Pfeiffer : "Testa pyramidata ; spira acuta et elevata, apice rosea , anfr.
5, rotundati, sub lente subtilissima spiraliter striati ; saturate ciunamomia ; sutura profunda ; umbilicus augustus et profundus ; apertura circularis ; perist.
simplex vix incrassatum.
Operculum soliduni extus perconcavum, marginibus anfractuum promiuentibus.
Lat.
0.13, alt.
16 poll."
Genus OMPHALOTROPIS, Pfeiffer.
0. conidea, Mousson.
Omphalotropis conoidea, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 182.
Pease.
Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146; Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 124.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 101.
Realia ( Omphalotropis) conoidea, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 353 (et var.
angulosa) ; 1871, p. 27.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum., iv, p. 222.
I am not acquainted with this species, which was found at Upolu by Dr. Graffe, and the variety at Savaii.
He found it also at Wallis Island.
An ovate conical species, 7 mill, long, with 6i rather flattened whorls, the last one large, ovately-rounded, perforated, and the perforation margined by a filiform keel.
Moussson says "epidermide subdedituta, punctis et lineis fiilguratis mepe reticularis malleata."
In his remarks (Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146) he says "Les jeuues individus, d'un rouge grisatre et peu fulgures, sont, en effet, parfaitement lisses ; mais bientot on decouvre des points d'une coloration blanchatre et mate, qui interrompent les parties polies et se disposent en lignes anguleuses, qui finissent par dominer a I'age ou r 6piderme est entirement detruit."
His variety angulata has the last whorl angular.
0. bilirata, Mousson.
Omphalotropis bilirata, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 184, pi.
14, fig.
13.
Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146; Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Realia {Omphalotropis) bilirata, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146 (var.
elongata); 1871, p. 29.
Pfeifier, Mon.
Pneum., iv, p. 218.
More rare than the preceding species and inhabits Upolu and Savaii, as well as Wallis Island in the Tonga group.
A perforated, elongate-conical, pale corneous species with an incised sutural line which is margined above with a filiform keel.
Whorls 6, flattened, the last one angulated and bicarinated with a periphery and basal thread-like keel.
Length 51 mill.
0. bifilaris, Mousson.
Omphalotropis bijilaris, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 183.
Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146 ; Proc, Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 124.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 101.
Realm {Omphalotropis) bifilaris, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 353 (var.
angusta); 1871, p. 29.
PfeifFer, ]Mon.
Pneum., iv, p. 232.
Not infrequent at Upolu and Tutuila ; found also at the Tonga group.
Mousson's variety angusta which inhabits the Viti Islands is probably a distinct species.
The type is a perforated, conical shell, 6| mill, long, with a fugaceous fuscous epidermis and rounded whorls, the last one with a periphery and basal filiform keel.
HELICINA.. Lamarck.
H. fulgora, (Jould.
Helicina fidgora, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 201; Exp.
Exp.
Shells; p. 95, fig.
106.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum., i. p. 401.
Gray, Cat.
Phan., p. 293.
H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 302 ; Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 178 ; 1869, p. 356 ; 1870, p. 198 (var.
expansa); 1871, p. 25 (var.
diminuta).
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 125.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff.. V, p. 98 (var.
delicatula).
Helicina delicatula, "Mss."
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 125.
Abundant beneath decaying vegetation and is diffused throughout the grou}).
The variety delicatula is common at Samoa, and Mousson's diminuta is widely spread over the Tonga group.
Variety expansa inhabits Kanathia, one of the Viti Islands.
This variable species may be recognized by its conoid form, thin texture, oblique striation, yellowish horn-color and radiating angular or flexuous rufous strigations.
Sometimes the stripes are interrupted so as to form a series of spots along the sutural line and on the acutely carinated j^eriphery.
The peristome is slightly expanded and forms an angle at its junction with the short columella.
Diam.
4 to 9 mill.
H. plicatilis, Mousson.
Helicina plicatilis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 178; 1869, p. 358.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 126.
Brazier, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 322.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., V, p. 98.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Reunion, iv, p. 251.
Common on trees at Upolu.
A large, solid, white, depressly conical species, with 41 depressed whorls, the last one Avide, obtusely angular, or bluntly carinated on the periphery.
The peristome is sharp, and in adult individuals the anterior margin of the basal cellosity forms a crest-like ridge which joins the base of the outer-lip.
Diam.
9 mill.
Mr. Brazier (in P. Z.
S.. 1871, p. 822), says Mousson's plicatilis is synonymous with Pfeiffer's H. Norfolkensis, and that Cuming's locality "Norfolk Island" is erroneous.
Though the species has several years precedence in publication, and, if they are identical, Mr. Brazier is fully justified in rejecting Pfeifier's name which is a misnomer.
The descri23tion of Norfolkensis agrees very nearly with the Samoa shell, but no mention is made of the peculiar crest-like basal ridge.
The measurements are too large for the latter S})ecies.
M. beryllina, (rould.
Helmna benjUina, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 202; Exp.
Exp.
Shells, p. 95, tig.
111.
Pfeitifer, Mon.
Pneura., i, p. -354.
Gray, Cat.
Phan., p. 256.
{Mesa) H. and A. Adams, Gen.
Moll., ii, p. 304.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 197 ; 1869, p. 357 (vsii\ fiavida) ; 1M70, {).
200.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 125.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
GodefF., v, p. 98.
Gould's typical berijIUiia inhabits the eastern portion of the Viti Islands, and Mousson's var.
flamda was found at Tutuila by Dr. Grafle.
The latter variety has the spire and base yellowish, the last Avhorl whitish with a yellowish zone.
In every other respect it differs none from the Vitian type, which is a large species (9 to 10 mill, in diam.
), of a solid texture, depressly conoid in shape and rather variable in color : white, greenish-white, flesh-color, frequently with a dorsal red zone.
Lip simple and the periphery obtuse.
H. interna, Mousson.
HeUcina interna, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 358 ; 1870, p. 201, pi.
8, fig.
6; 1871, p. 24.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 125.
Schmeltz, Cat.
oNIus.
Godetf., v, p. 99.
Pfeiff'er.
Mon.
Pneum., iv, p. 248.
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
This species, which is common to the Viti and Tonga Islands, was found by Dr. Grafle at Savaii.
A turbinately conical species of a uniform white, or yellowish color, with or without a spiral reddish-brown zone and regular conical spire.
Whorls 5, slightly convex, the last one rounded or ol>tusely angulated.
Peristome acute.
Diam.
9 mill.
H. musiva, Gould.
Helicina viusiva, Gould, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1847, p. 201 ; Expl.
Exp.
Shells, p. 98, fig.
107.
Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum., i, p. 368.
Gray, Cat.
Phan., p. 259.
H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 302.
Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 178 (var.
JJveand); 1869, p. 357; 1870, p. 202 (vars.
Vitiana ei subcarinata); 1871, p. 25; 1873, p. 107 (var.
rotundata).
Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 125 (musica in err.).
This variable species is abundant beneath decaying vegetation on the lowlands near the sea-shore.
It is also common in the Tonga and Viti Islands as well as in the low coral islands of Ellis group.
The shape varies from depressed globose to sub-lenticular, and, in size varies from 3 to 5 mill, in diameter.
The usual color is white, corneous, or pale yellowish horn-color with radiating reddishchestnut more or less zigzagged or undulating stripes, rarely unicolor.
The periphery is rounded, or subangulated and the peristome slightly expanded.
H. altivaga, Mousson.
Helicina altivaga, "Mousson" Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff., v, p. 99.
This species, which was neither described nor figured, was found at Upolu, by Dr. Graflfe.
ASSIMINEA, Leach.
A. nitida, Pease.
Hydrocena nitida, Pease, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1864, p. 674.
Assiminea nitida, Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 165, pi.
7, fig.
11 ; Proc Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godefi*., v, p. 103.
Garrett, Proc Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1879, p. 29 ; Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1881, p. 408. f Realia nitida, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum., iii, p. 202.
Hydrocena parimla, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 184 ; 1873> p. 108.
Omphalotropis parvula, Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 155 ; Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Paetel, Cat.
Conch., p. 124.
Assiminea parvvla, Pease, Proc.
Zool, Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godeff:, v, p. 103.
Realia parvula, PfeiiFer, Mon.
Pneum., iii, p. 213.
Assiminea lucida, Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 166, pi.
7, fig.
10 ; Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1871, p. 476.
Assiminea ovata, "Pease" Schmeltz, Cat.
Mus.
Godefi"., v, p. 103.
Hydrocena pygmcea, Gassies, Jour, de Conch., 1867, p. 63.
Assiminea pygmcea, Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 165. ?
Realia pygmcea, Pfeiffer, Mon.
Pneum., iv, p. 214.
Hydrocena similis, Baird, in Cruise of the Curacoa.
This species is distributed throughout all the groups from the Paumotu's to the Viti Islands and New Caledonia.
They are found beneath decaying leaves, under stones and dead wood.
It may be recognized by its small size (21 to 4 mill, long), smooth, shining surface, ovate-conical form, light or dark corneous color ; rarely with a faint transverse band on the last whorl.
11 May 3.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan, Vice-President, in the cliair.
Twenty-three persons present.
On Aphyllon as a root Parasite.
Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that the life histories of many of our root parasites were still obscure,-in many cases we hardly knew whether they were annual or perennial ; how long it took for them to perfect themselves, and in some cases it was even doubted whether they were parasites in the true sense of the word, or merely obtained a start by feeding on partially decomposed vegetable matter.
In one of the earlier editions oi Flora Cestrica, Dr. Wm.
Darlington observes that he has often dug Aphyllon uniflorum without finding it attached to anything, and, though he omits this remark in later editions, he observes that it is "Perennialf " The speaker remarked that he had dug this species very carefully when in bloom, and washed the earth gently away, finding them truly parasitic on the coarser fibres of Asters and Goldenrods.
They very readily separate from their connection unless cax'efully handled, which may account for the failure to note their true parasitic nature.
A specimen sent by Mr. Morris, a florist of Des Moines Iowa, of an allied species A.faseiculatum Torr.
and G., {PhellpcBa fasciculata of someauthors), givestheopportunity for acquiring certain knowledge in relation to these points.
Mr. Morris raised numerous plants of the common bedding geranium {Pelargonmm zonale).
The cuttings were made in October and November last.
They were potted in earth taken from a piece of newly cleared woodland in the vicinity.
The plants appeared in many of the geranium pots in his greenhouse, and were in full flower in April.
As the plants were only in this soil for about three months, the seeds must have sprouted, flowered, and were on the decline in that time.
They are therefore annual, and a very short-lived annual at that.
In regard to the parasitism, the attachment in several that Mr. Meehan had examined, was to the coarser roots.
In the plant exhibited, it was to the main stem of the cuttings beneath the ground, and not to the roots, which in this specimen were merely weak fibres.
The geranium, an African plant, and of a very different character fi-om these which the Aphyllon lias been in the habit of feeding on, proving so acceptable to it in this instance, shows that it is either not partial in its parasitic tastes, or that it has ready powers of adaptation when something suited to its peculiar habits comes along.
May 10.
The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
The following was jaresented for publication : "Contributions towards a Synopsis of the American forms of FreshWater Sponges with Descriptions of those named by other authors and from all parts of the world.," By Edw.
Potts.
The death of Robert H. Hare, a member, was announced.
On the Stipules of Magnolia Frazeri.
Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited some fresli flowers of Magnolia Frazeri, Walter {M. auriculata, Lamarck), and said that when lie contributed the paper on the "Stipules of Magnolia and Liriodendron" to the Proceedings of the Academy in 18^0, he had not had the opportunity to examine fresh flowers of this species.
It was not common in cultivation from the fact that the plants grown rarely produced seeds, and there had been little opportunities to get seeds from its North Carolina home.
On his grounds of late years a specimen had annually borne flowere, which appeared very early, following immediately the flowers of the Yulau, and were as large and sweet as that species of China.
A point made in the paper referred to was that the petals of Magnolia were not modified leaves, as the petals of flowers would be broadly stated to be in morphological works but rather modified stipules, in which case the petiole and leaf blade have wholly aborted.
At the time of its appearance.
Dr. Asa Gray, to whose kindly criticisms on this and other papers he had been so often deeply indebted, wrote expressing his interest in the paper, saying that the observations confirmed the views of some German observer, whose name he could not recall, that the j^etals of many flowers were but modified stipules.
Mr. Meehan had not been able to meet with the name of the author or of the paper referred to by Dr. Gray, or the tenor of the author's views.
Indeed his observations and those of the author referred to, must have been wholly overlooked by their co-laborei's, or else the views have not commended themselves to their good judgment.
For his own part the subsequent observations of nearly twenty years had convinced him that the petals of most flowers should be considered enlarged stipules or thinly dilated bases of petioles, rather than modified leaves, as we should understand this term.
In many species of Roses, especially in Rosa Kamtchatica, and Rosa cinnamomea the stipules could be noted increasing, and the size of the leaf blade diminishing on the branch as it approached inflorescence.
Often the tips of the sepals would develop to minute leaf blades, and in a few instances he had had seen the same appendages on abnormal petals.
Often the stipules, especially in Rosa Kamtcludica, would have the red colors of the petals, when at the nodes immediately below the axis from which the peduncle proceeded.
There could be no possible doubt in the minds of those who would carefully compare, and watch for occasional aberrations, that the petals of the rose Avere rather transformed stipules than complete leaves.
Precisely the same process of development from stipules to petals could be ti^aced in some Leguminosce, and especially in the common Red Field Clover.
When vegetation was arrested in its growth and bud scales were formed for the j^rotection of the growth-germ for the next season, it was the stipule or dilated base of the petiole that formed the scale.
This was evident to those who watched the bursting of the growth buds in spring of the species of Fraxinus, or of the Dwarf Horse Chestnut (Aesculus parvijiora) common in gardens.
The formation of petals for the protection of the rejiroductive germ, was also the result of arrested vegetative growth, and we may safely assume that the same law operates on the stipules and petiolar bases, in the one case as in the other.
This Magnolia confirms these views, as already indicated in the paper referred to.
The stipules increase in size, and the development of the leaf blade is arrested just in proportion as the true petals are approached, until the last one preceding the true flower is nearly as large as the petals, and of nearly their form and character.
In some cases the stipule appears as a perfect petal, with not a of leaf blade left.
The true sepal or petal has lost all trace of petiole or blade, it is broadened at the base, and, we see, cannot be aught but the stipule modified.
The fact that the petals of flowers are rather the bases of petioles or stipules, than modifications of full typical leaves may not only be proved by such observations as have been referred to, but accords Avith that philosophy which would expect to find an uniform law result from uniform causes.
For if, as cannot be doubted, the check vegetative growth produce petal a bud scale out of a stipule, the check to vegetative growth should produce a petal (a flower scale) out of the same typical form.
The theory gives to morphological law a harmony of action that is wanting without it.
May 17.
Mr. J. H. Redfield, in the chair.
Twenty-eight jDersons present.
May 24.
Mr. Chas.
Morris, in the chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
A paper entitled "Notes on the Anatomy of Echidna hystrix."
By H. C. Chapman M. D., was presented for publication.
Permission was given to change the name of a communication presented October 19, 1886, by Prof. Wm.
B. Scott, for publication in the Journal of the Academy, from " The Genera Mesonyx and Pachyaena, Cope."
to "On some new and little-known Creodouts."
1887.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
157 May 31.
The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair.
Twelve persons present.
Asplanckna Ebheshorn'd.
Dr. Leidy remarked that a few days ago Mr. Wm.
P. Seal, had submitted to him a four ounce bottle swarming with animalcules, which at first glance he supjjosed to be a species of Cypris, but on closer inspection he observed to be a rotifer.
As seen with the naked eye they appeared transparent whitish, and of conical shape and about half a line in length.
They swam actively, with the crown uppermost, and at all levels of the water.
The rotifer accords closely with the description of Asplanchim Ebbesbornii, given by Hudson in the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society in 1883, p. 621, pi.
ix, x.
As in this it has a dorsal and ventral projection.
At times it was observed that the rotifer would retract the crown and project a pair of lateral conical horns, when it would appear as broad as it was long.
The stomach is yellowish and suspended from the pharynx by a long narrow oesophagus.
There was a single eye.
The animal is viviparous, and was observed in a number of instances to suddenly give birth to a young one which was about two thirds the size of the parent, and resembled it in form.
Specimens measured from J to 1 2 mm in length.
Mr. Hudson's specimens Avere obtained from a duck-pond in Wiltshire, England, the only known locality.
Mr. Seal's specimens were obtained from a "filthy sewage-fed pond, a duck-pond and hog-wallow" below the city.
In summer it is com])letely covered with duck weed, Lemna.
The water swarms with the rotifer in company with Daphnia.
Mr. Seal remarks that he noticed sand pipers about the place and thinks these birds are especially instrumental in distributing the lower forms of aquatic life.
The following were elected correspondents : Henry A.
Ward of Rochester, Addison E. Verrill of New Haven, R. P. Whitfield of New York, Edgar A. Smith of London, August Brot of Geneva, E. Ray Lankester of London, William E. Hoyle of Edinburgh, Eduard von Martens of Berlin, William Kobelt of Schwanheim, S. Clessin of Ochsenfurt, Rev.
M. Heude, S. J. of Zika-Wei, China, Rudolph Bergh of Copenhagen, A. T. de Rochebrune of Paris and Herrman Friele of Bergen.
The following were ordered to be printed :
