NOTICE OF SOME PARASITIC WORMS.
^ BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. Filaria megacantha.
Body straight, nearly uniform cylindrical, slightly narrowed posteriorly, obtuse at the ends, railk-white in color; head rounded; mouth bounded by a j^air of prominent papillate lips.
Female: (Ij I caudal extremity straight, obtusely rounded, smooth, Adthout anal aperture.
Male: caudal extremity conical, obtuse, bialate; aliie narrow, united around the end of the tail, together forming a shallow i^ouch, with a row on each side of six rib-like papillie, of which four are in advance and two behind the genital aperture.
A long, curved and Fig.
I.
Side view of caudal exn .
i i i i tremity of the male, highly pai'tially exsertcd penal spiculum and magnified.
a ucarlv Straight short one.
Eight females, 35 to 60 mm.
long; cephalic extremity a short distance back, 0"75 wide; body at middle, 0"625; near the tail end the same width.
Seven males, 20 to 25 mm.
long; cephalic extremity, 0'375 wide; body at middle, 0*5; near tail end, 0'25 wide.
Large penal spiculum, 2"5 to 3 mm.
long; shorter one, 0-18 to 0-22 mm.
; caudal bursa, 0-28 long; width of alse, 0-036 mm.
From the subcutaneous connective tissue of the neck and mandible of the Short-eared Owl, Asio occipitrinus (St7'ix hrachyotus).
This appears to be a much smaller and different species from the Filaria attenuata Rud., found in the same bird and others of the order in Europe.
Dujardin ^ gives as the size of the latter 250 to 308 mm.
for the female, and 136 to 148 mm.
for the male, with 1 mm.
for the longer penal spiculum.
Schneider "^ gives for F. attenuata, from Faleo peregrinus, 330 mm.
for the female, and 115 mm.
for the male, the caudal bursa of Avhich he represents as circular.
He remarks that the Filaria of Strix and of Cecus glandarius, referred by Kudolphi to F. attenuata, is a different species, but does not describe it, for want of perfect si)ecimens.
1 Helminthes, 51.
^ Monog.
Nemat., 89. u Obtained in Chester Co., Pa., December, 1886, by Dr. B. H. Warren.
Three specimens, females, two inches in length, from the orbit of the Hen-hawk, Buteo borealis, in the collection of the Army Medical Museum, appear to belong to this species.
Ascarls tulura.
Body cylindrical, most narrowed and tapering anteriorly, of a pinkish color; mouth trilobed, the lobes together nearly as wide as the head.
Female: caudal extremity nearly as thick as the middle of the body, straight; tail short, obtusely conical, as broad at base as the length.
Male: caudal extremity tapering, slightly incurved, with a row on each side of minute papillse (20 or more?
); tail short, conical, ending in a spheroidal knob.
One female; length 125 mm.
; width of Fig.
z.-Caudai extremity cephalic extremity a short distance from ^ female; 3.
Of male-111 f>i Highly magnified.
the end, O'o/o; at middle 01 body, 1'25; near the tail, 1 mm.
wide; tail, 0'25 long.
One male; length 90 mm.
; width at middle, 0"75; tail, 0*25 long; rounded end, 0'125 thick.
From the ventriculus of the Ked-shouldered Hawk, Buteo lineatus.
This worm apjDroximates the Ascaris depressa Rud., observed in many rapacious birds, but appears to be a different species.
Diesing^ describes the tail of the male of the former as shortly mucronate and papillose beneath, and Schneider ^ figures it according to that description.
Specimens obtained in Chester Co., Pa., December, 1886, by Dr. B. H. Warren.
Ascaris sulcata Rudolphi.
Body anteriorly attenuated; posteriorly more or less closely spiral; head with prominent lips.
Female: tail conical, recurved from the anus, ending in a minute mucro.
Male: tail conical, shortly mucronate, bialate, with a row on each side of four or five nipple-like papillte.
Female, up to 25 mm.
long by 0"5 wide at middle; tail, 0"25 long.
Male, 15 mm.
long by 0'3 wide at middle, ^ Syst.
Helm., 156.
^ Monog.
Nemat., 41.
Numerous specimens were found tightly clinging by the mouth to the lining membrane of the stomach of Trachemys scabra.
EcMnorhynchus caudatus Zeder.
Body narrow, cylindrical, nearly equal throughout, strongly corrugated so as to appear annulated, posterior extremity conical.
Proboscis cylindrical, exj^anded at base, with 9 to 11 rows of strong hooks, succeeded with about 15 rows of smaller hooks.
Length, from 5 lines to an inch; breadth, 0*5 to 1*5 mm.
From two individuals of the Swallow-tailed Kite, Elanoides furcahis, in one of which they were associated with Tceuia viator.
Two specimens from Strix nebulosa.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warren, EcMnorliynchus hystrix Bremser.
Body cylindrical, much corrugated, widest anteriorly and minutely echinate.
Proboscis clavate, with about a dozen rows of hooks.
One-fourth to three-fourths of an inch long and one line wide at the fore part.
Numerous specimens from the intestine of the Darter, Plotus anhinga.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warren.
Taenia simpllcissima.
Head small, unarmed, truncate; bothria spherical, terminal, occupying the four angles; neck very long, [^nearly or as wide as the head, body gradually widening to the posterior third and then tapering; anterior segments transversely linear, subsequently reversed dishlike, gradually longer and wider, then campanulate and gradually becoming longer and FtG.
4.
Cephalic extrem/--i j_' j. j ity;s. Segments about narrower.
Generative apertures and ova middle; 6 Posterior unobservcd.
A uumbcr of sj^ecimeus from segmer^ts.
Magnified ^ ^^ ^^^^^^ calhrias, Up tO 20 HueS 20 diameters. '
' ^ by 1 mm.
where widest.
Two only of the specimens retained the head.
Taenia Ambloplitis.
Head quadrate, spheroidal, consisting almost entirely of the four large spherical bothria, with the summit slightly prominent and conical or depressed and unarmed; neck very short or none; body compressed cylindrical, gradually widening from the head to near the posterior part where it slightly narrows to the end; segments linear, becoming gradually longer and wider, and then more quadrate; all deeply and pretty regularly wrinkled into tAvo or three annuli.
Genital apertures obscure.
Length 8 to 12 inches; in alcohol contracted to 3j to 5 inches ; greatest width 2 mm.
Head 0-5 to 0-625 mm.
long, and 0-75 to 0*875 broad.
Bothria 0-375 mm.
diameter.
Commencement of body ()'625 wide.
Anterior segments 0*125 long, 0-625 wide; subsequently 0-375 long and 1-5 to 1-875 wide; jDOsterior ^_ 8. segments 0-75 long by 1 mm.
wide.
Fig.
7.
Cephalic extremity ; 8.
SegAT n J?
J.1 ments near middle.
20 diameters number 01 specimens irom the stomach of the Rock Bass, Anibloplites rupestris.
Lake George, New York.
This species resembles the Tcenia ocellata Rudolphi of the European Perch, Perca fiuviatilis, and perhaps is the same.
Taenia Micropteri.
Head large, compressed spheroidal, with four subterminal spherical bothria and a pampiniform unarmed summit; neck none; body obscurely segmented, and with no obvious internal organs, posteriorly variably narrowed and obtusely rounded at the end.
Length from half an inch to an inch, and about 1 mm.
wide.
Apparently a larval form ; found in the body cavity of the Black Bass, Micropterus nigricans.
Six worms, soft, white, and active.
The longer ones of an inch would elongate to double the length, becoming proportionately narrower.
The head, about 1 mm.
or more in diameter, varied in length and breadth, according to contraction, sometimes one and sometimes the other being the larger.
Lake George, N. Y.
Last summer, while at Mt.
Desert, Me., I examined a squid, Omviastrephes illecebrosa, with the hope of finding the singular parasite Dicyema.
The specimen was in bad condition, and while I found none of the latter, I obtained from it several small worms, which I suppose to be the larval form of a cestode.
They were yet quite active, though the host was already putrescent.
I suspected them to belong to Tetrabothriorhynehus migratorius, observed in European cephalopods, but examination showed them to be different.
They moved so actively and incessantly, contracting, expanding and writhing, that it was difficult to obtain a clear idea of the shape of the worm.
It appears most nearly related with Tcenia, and provisionally may be regarded as a larval form of this genus.
Its more evident characters may be summed up as follows : Tsenia loliginis.
Head unarmed, without rostellum, quadrilobate, continuous with the neck, which is variably long and narrow or short and irregularly contracted and expanded, and is constricted from the body.
Lobes of the head elliptical, contractile and expansile and becoming variably folded or corrugated, furnished each at the upper pole with a hemispherical bothria.
Body about as long as the head and neck, extensile and contractile, obconic or obovate, compressed, acute posteriorly, unsegmented.
No interior organs visible except a vessel along the sides of the neck and encircling the lobes of the head.
Color white.
Length to about half an inch ; width about 1 mm.
Dr. H. C. Chapman informed me that he had previously observed this parasite in the squid.
Monostomum obscurum.
Elongated elliptical, flattened, obtusely angular in front, obtusely rounded behind.
Oral and genital or other apertures scarcely distinguishable.
Length; 4 to 8 lines ; width 1 line.
Numerous specimens in the stomach of a Jew-fish, Megalops thrissoides.
Collection of the Army Medical Museum, Washington.
Distomum Aquilse.
Spatulate, cochleariform, widest behind, obtuse at both ends; mouth circular unarmed; acetabulum sessile, about as large as the mouth.
Length, 3 lines; width in front, i a line; behind, I of a line.
Two specimens from the trachea of the Bald Eagle, Halicetus leucocephalus.
Collection of the Army Medical Meseum.
Distomum hispidum Abildgaard.
Body much attenuated in advance, covered with minute recurved spines, which become obsolete at the back part.
Head with a pair of alate appendages covered with stronger recurved spines, and a small group in the intervals before and behind.
Mass of eggs giving the axis of the body behind a red appearance.
Ova oval, 00"4 mm.
long, 00*24 mm.
broad.
Numerous specimens, about 4 lines long by 0'5 mm.
where widest behind.
From the intestine of the Sturgeon, Accipenser sturio, of the Delaware River, at Philadelphia.
Nitzschia elegans Baer.
Several specimens of this leech, four lines long, were taken from the gills of the same sturgeon.
1887.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
25 January 25.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair.
Twenty-one persons present.
The following were elected members; Bernard Persh, Geo.
B. Cresson, Joseph Whitehouse, William B. Marshall and William Osier, M. D. Oti a Tumor in the Oyster.
Prof. John A. Ryder remarked that a few days since Professor Leidy handed him the soft parts of an oyster, which he ;jaid he thought might be an interesting subject for investigation, inasmuch as a very large tumor had grown into the pericardiac cavity.
The specimen is a very remarkable one, and seems to be the first of the kind which has fallen under the observation of naturalists; neither Professor Leidy nor the speaker, in the course of large opportunities for observation, having previously encountered anything of the sort.
It is also of great interest as proving that such pathological growths may be developed in the mollusca, thus showing that even in the invertebrata there may be morbid ^proliferations of certain tissues which simulate in certain respects those observed to occur in man and the higher types of vertebrates, in which they become very dangerous and painful in character, as in the case of cancer.
The first and most striking features of this tumor, found in the oyster, is its great size in proportion to that of the animal.
The tumor in its largest dimension measures nearly one inch across, with a thickness of fully half an inch.
The total length of the animal, in alcohol, is about three inches, and it appears normal in every other respect.
For size, in proportion to the dimensions of the animal, it can therefore only be compared to those huge morbid growths on certain parts of man known as elephantiasis.
It is subcircular in outline as viewed from the side, and fills up the pericardiac cavity in front of the adductor muscle; this cavity being very greatly enlarged in consequence of the growth of the tumor.
The larger portion of it also lies on the right side, and on account of its great size it has displaced the heart forwards and to the left.
Its consistence is soft and yielding when pressed with the finger, and consists of some eighteen very distinct lobules of irregular size and form.
Its joint of attachment appears to be to the mass of tissue which surrounds the posterior and red: part of the intestine of the animal, and ajDpears to have giwn out in this region, or from the dorsal wall of the heart cbmnber.
Upon removing one of the lobules, which was cut into /sections, it was found that its histological structure was also very remark3 able, and considerably different from that of the normal tissue of the body-mass of the animal.
The sections also showed that the tumor was traversed by vessels, the tissues immediately around which were more nearly of the kind normally found to constitute the greater j^art of the substance of the body-mass.
The normal connective tissue is composed of large cells or spaces with thin walls, and about the centre of each one of these a small, complex mass of protojilasm is found Avhich is suspended to the sides of its vesicular wall by means of fine radiating protoplasmic threads or filaments.
Very minute nucleated and rounded blood and lymph cells are also found in the general connective tissue of the body-mass in small numbers.
The histological structure of the tumor contrasts with the normal tissue in the following particulars.
We find no evidence of the presence of the central protoplasmic bodies, with radiating processes, in the meshes of the tissue.
The mesh of the tissue of the tumor is areolar, or alveolar, the alveoli being much larger than the vesicular cells of the normal connective tissue.
While there is a complete absence of the ^protoplasmic bodies with filaments, the alveoli contain great numbers of very small globular, nucleated cells, somewhat variable in size.
These cells closely resemble the colorless blood and lymph cells of the oyster, and some show processes or pseudopods.
They are generally adherent to the walls of the alveoli, or project in small adherent clumps from the parietes of the alveoli and never completely fill the meshes of the alveolar tissue, in which they are included, as do the analogovis cells in the alveoli of tumors in the higher animals.
Near the centre of each nodule there is a zone of alveoli which are larger, and in which the small rounded cells are most abundant.
At the surface of the tumor there is no investment of a truly integumentary character, so that the proliferating mass seems to have ruptured the integument or membrane lining the pericardium.
At the surface we therefore find that there is no true integument, but instead, the alveoli become smaller and more compact, with the contained small rounded cells more closely packed.
The tissues of the tumor are entirely of mesodermal origin, and are therefore of considerable interest from the standpoint of comparative pathology.
The speaker also referred to the presence of tumors, which developed as outgrowths of the intestinal wall, near the pylorus, in the common shad, and also instanced the occurrence of profound lesions of the Wolffian body or kidney of the common gold-fish, as a result of which that organ underwent complete degeneration, with other changes which caused a bloated, dropsical appearence in the cavity of the abdomen.
Large meshes of fibrous tissue were, in fact, found occupying the place of the kidney filled with a Avatery or colloid substance, the whole taking up a much greater space than that originally filled by the normal, organ.
These data, the speaker thought, were very significant, as showing that even the lower animals were not exempt from morbid growths and lesions of the most serious character.
Tumors of the kind described in the oyster are probably veryrare, however, and the speaker considered that it was very fortunate that the sj)ecimen had fallen into the hands of a naturalist, such as Professor Leidy, who could so well appreciate its importance and value.
The tumor seems to have been benign in character, as the oyster in other respects appears to have been healthy.
It was also localized, and did not appear in other parts of the animal, so that it was^ probably in no way infectious.
Modification of Habit in Ants through fear of Enemies.
Dr. Henry C. McCook described a raid of the Sanguine ants, Formica sanguinea, which occurred in a vacant lot at Asbury Park, N. J.
The co-operative nest of the two species was established quite near the sidewalk, and the raid was directed thence into the open lot.
The marching column of Sanguines was accompanied by a few individuals of the black slaves.
What special purpose the latter had he was not able to determine.
The eagerness exhibited by the Sanguines upon the march was very noticeable, although these creatures are always active in the nest and at any domestic labor as well as war, in which respect they differ largely from the shining slave makers, Polyergus lucidus.
On the occasion of which he spoke, the nest of Fuscous ants, Formica fusca, against which the exjDedition * was directed, was concealed among a large amount of forest rubbish, such as bits of broken chips, twigs, dried leaves, etc., that were scattered over the barren space, interspersed here and there with tufts of grass and low huckleberry bushes.
The invaders had evidently located the nest, but not Avith absolute accuracy; at least they were not able to determine the point at which it might successfully be assaulted.
A most animated scene was presented over the entire surface, some three feet in diameter, upon which was concentrated the united energies of the warriors.
Over and around this space in various lines the ants wandered, crossing and criss-crossing each other's pathways, sometimes singly, sometimes in couples or triplets, or in larger crowds, but always exhibiting an attitude of fevered eagerness, applying their mandibles and mouth-parts continually to the ground in search of the point of vantage which would give them ingress to the coveted treasures of the Fuscous ants.
A space about ten inches in diameter, strewn with dry chippage seemed to represent the locality beneath which the blacks had established their formicary.
The Sanguines energetically pulled away the chips, scattered them here and there, burrowed lightly in the earth hoping to obtain an opening.
About two feet distant from this point the speaker discovered a small round entrance or gate which was soon identified as one of the outer approaches to the Fuscous nest, for several of these ants were seen issuing from the gate and others Avere hovering around it.
At this moment one of the Sanguine army, in the spirit of a pioneer or scout, approached this point.
Thereupon the blacks climbed up adjacent spears of grass, where they remained apparently on guard.
After about ten minutes spent in the exploration which has been desci'ibed, the reds began to drain off from the centre of search towards their home.
In the meantime a considei-able number of the Fuscas, who had evidently been out upon foraging expeditions and were homeward bound for the liight, discovering the crowd of enemies who surrounded their borders, had discreetly taken refuge like their associates on the tufts of grass everywhere around the margin of the space within which the Sanguines had been operating.
Two of these blacks, more courageous or cunning than their associates.
Dr. McCook observed to slip into a little opening and disappear inside.
They were presently followed by several Sanguines, who, however, shortly returned from within and proceeded with their surface explorations, apparently having found no clew to the main formicary.
The blacks, however, had certainly safely entered their home.
He greatly wondered at this, and regarded it as an evidence of remarkable cunning and skill in strategy on the part of the Fuscas, which had enabled them thus so rapidly and easily to close the opening to their nest and throw the invaders off the scent.
An hour after flie commencement of the raid not more than half a dozen of the Sanguines remained upon the scene, the rest of their company having abandoned the search for this time at least.
This corporal's guard of persistent scouts also gave up the search at last and marched back home, the secretive skill of the blacks having thus far prevailed for the protection of their colony.
The interesting fact in the history of these curious creatures to which Dr. McCook wished to call especial attention is, that their instinct for kidnapping has appeared to develojje on the part of those who are the victims of it a corresponding strengthening of instinct in the way of concealment.
The Fuscous ants are ready enough to defend their homes with their lives and often do it successfully when their numbers are great enough to overcome the superior physical }:)Ower and warlike skill of their enemies.
But the weaker colonies of Fuscas must always yield to the prowess and strength of the Sanguines, unless their cunning can put their invaders at a disadvantage.
The case just mentioned does not stand alone.
At various times when the speaker had observed these black ants in such site that they are exposed to the attacks of the Sanguines, he had noticed that their nests were constructed very differently from those of colonies in neighborhoods not infested by Sanguines.
In the latter positions it is the habit of the Fuscas to raise above the surface of the ground a flattened moundlet, or sometimes a mound of considerable size.
Over the summit and at tlie base of these elevations are scattered the gates or openings into the galleries Avithout the least attempt at concealment.
The whole formicary shows that its inmates dwell in security without any fear of such special jjerils as those described.
On the contrary, the Fuscous colonies established in the near vicinity of their hereditary foes have a marked tendency to omit or subdue elevations above the surface, the dumpage from interior galleries being apparently scattered broadcast instead of piled above the central formicary.
Their gates are few and cunningly concealed, and quantities of rubbish are scattered around with the evident intention of hiding the locality of their nest or making the approach to it more difficult.
It has thus come about with these unfortunate blacks, as is the case with the human species, that the difficulties of life and perils to person, offspring and home, have developed a higher order of protective instinct.
A similar faculty Dr. McCook had observed in the case of an amber-colored ant, the Schauffiiss ant, Formica schauffussi.
He was watching the assault of a colony of Sanguines upon a Fuscous nest in the grounds of his friend Mrs. Mary Treat, Vineland, N. J., when he chanced to see a solitary individual Schauffuss moving back and forwards a little distance from the scene of invasion.
Knowing that this ant is sometimes enslaved by the Sanguines he directed his attention upon her and easily perceived that she was putting finishing touches upon the closure of a little hole that marked the gate of her formicary.
A tiny pebble was placed, then a few pellets of soil were added.
Next the worker walked away, took a few turns as though surveying the surroundings, and cautiously came back.
The coast was clear.
Kow she deftly crawled into the small open S2:)ace, and the observer could see from the movements inside, and occasional glimpses of the tip of her antenna3, that she was completing the work of concealment from the inside.
At last her task was done and all was quiet.
Just then a single Sanguine warrior, apparently a straggler from the invader's army near by, or some independent scout it may be, approached the spot.
It walked around the nest, which was indistinguishable from the surrounding surface ; sounded or felt here and there with its antenna?
; passed over the very door into which the Schauffliss ant had disappeared, and although its suspicions Avere evidently strongly awakened, it at last moved away.
The speaker felt satisfaction that the Sanguine depredator had thus been bafl^led and that the instinct of home protection had proved too much for the Avretched kidnapping cunning.
However, his pleasure was somewhat clouded by the reflection that the slave-making scout would probably be back before long, accompanied by the host of its fellows, and do its work more surely.
But the impression remained strong upon his mind that the Schaufl'uss colonists, like the Fuscous ones above alluded to, had decidedly modified their habits of nest architectiu'e to meet the perils arising from close neighborhood to their kidnapping enemies.
Notes on the Geology of China.
Prof. Heilprin read from Miss Adele M. Fielde the following notes on the geology of southeastern China, which are of interest, inasmuch as nothing on the physical features of that section of the empire has as yet been published. "
I have been on a trip up the Han River, 130 miles, to the Pass between the Kwangtung and Fokien Provinces.
The mountains slope steeply down into the river on both its sides for eighty miles, and a narrow path runs on each slope parallel with the river at varying distances above it.
Some of the mountains are probably three thousand feet high, and the ridges at a distance appear so narrow that a man might stride and sit on them as on a saddle.
The river keeps a general trend southward, its bends being short ones.
Its delta covers several square miles.
In all the lower part of its course it is kept in its channel by dikes, as its sandy bed is higher than the adjoining rice fields.
Just above the city of Chow-chow-fu, thirty-two miles to the north of Swatow, the mountains begin to rise, and they are, like those near Swatow, almost wholly of granite.
This rock extends up to Liu Ng, a town twenty-four miles further up the river.
Stone No.
1, in the box sent herewith, is a specimen of this outcrop near the river.
Ten miles further up the granite becomes very coarse, as in No.
2.
Ten miles still further, or twenty-six miles from the mouth, the outcrops are, for a short distance, of whitish sandstone, like No.
3, and these are immediately followed by red sandstones, Nos.
4 and 5, which continue in mountain after mountain, gorge after gorge, precipice after precipice, for some sixty miles.
These are magnificent exposures, the stratification showing very plainly, with lines of cleavage nearly at right-angles to the lines of deposit.
The inclination is at all angles, some being level, some vertical and some showing splendid curves.
Here and there are to be found apparent injections of another stone, which, I fancy, may be trap No.
6.
I also found some streaks of landscape-sandstone, No.
7.
In one place I found a huge mass of the speckled stone, pink, with brown spots, marked No.
8, in the box.
This, like all the other specimens, is a portion of the great outcrop from a mountain side. "
Red sandstone, in some places, almost like dark shale, in others very hard and of a light color, extends to within ten miles of the pass.
Towards its upper boundary I noticed much intermixture with light sandstone, and w^ith a greenish stone.
No.
9.
The stratification of the latter was very plain, and in places the mountain path leads over the edges of the strata as they stand perpendicularly.
Near the pass and also through the pass (which is four miles long, and is a wdld gorge through which the x'iver flows in a white torrent), the outcrops and boulders are again wholly of granite, like that of Liu Ng.
Not far below the pass there had been a landslide from one of the mountains, and it gave a fine chance to see the original constitution of the slope.
I suppose this sandstone may be Triassic, because it appears to be unfossiliferous.
The Chinese do not make vast excavations, but they use stone for bridges, etc.
In one place I crossed a new bridge, made of red sandstone, and I examined the quarry from which the stone came.
If there were fossils found they would, without doubt, be used as fetiches, and I should hear of them.
The natives said no queer thing had been found or seen in the stones.
There was no sign or speck of a fossil to be found about the Cjuarry."
The specimens of stone accompanying the notes were commented upon by Prof Heilprin, who stated that they would be the subject of further study and rejDort.
The district here described is an interesting one to geologists, inasmuch as it had hitherto received but little attention upon the part of the travelers.
Much of the rock surface is probably identical with that observed by Eichthofen in the region to the west and north, the details of which have not yet been published in his work on China.
The red sandstone (Nos.
4 and 5) described by Miss Fielde as a possible representative of the Ti'ias, is apparently a member of the series referred by Richthofen to the Jurassic period so identified by the plant remains.
Chinese Rhizopods.
Miss Fielde also announced that during her study of the fresh-water Rhizopods found in the streams around Swatow, she had collected several forms identical with those described by Dr. Leidy, from the neighborhood of Philadelphia (Difflugia urceolata, D. pyriformis, Arcella vulgaris).
The following was ordered to be printed :
