ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS UPON THE STRUCTURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE MESOZOIC MAMMALIA.
J!Y HENRY FAIRFIELD OSBORN.
In coimectiou -with a visit to the recent Geological Congress in London the writer reviewed the British ]Mnseum collection of Mesozoic Mammals which formed the principal basis of a recently published Memoir' and examined also the valuable specimens at Oxford, Bath and York which had previously .been studied merely from the descriptions and figures of Professor Owen and others.
Also the NeoplagiauJax specimens in the collection of Dr. Lemoine at Rheims.
There are two uudescribed sjoecimens in the Oxford Museum and since the Avriter worked upon the collection in the British Museum, (in1886), many of the Purbeck fossils have been much more fully exposed by the further removal of the matrix.
Important features have been brought to light, not visible previously, which lead to a revision of some of the conclusions which were reached upon the evidence then at hand.
Greater familiarity with the minute Mesozoic types of molars sharpens the powers of observation and one is more apt to discover new points when on the lookout for them.
Thus many inconspicuous but important featui-es were noticed which formerly escaped attention.
Some of these, such for example as the identity oi Amhlotherium diViA Stylodon, had been already anticipated, but others, such as the tritubercular molars oi Amjjhdhermm wei'e entirely unexpected.
The following notes are in abstract from a Postscript to the ^Memoir, which is in preparation, and are not to be considered as final.
AMPHILESTES, Besides Professor Owen's tyjie, which is preserved in the York Museum,' there are tAVO specimens belonging to this genus at Oxford.
In the type, it is somewhat difficult to determine the number of the teeth, as described by Owen, since the incisor and canine alveoli are indistinct, l)ut the Oxford specimens show that there were but six molars instead of seven as conjectured in Lydekker's Catalogue, Part V, p. 271, and adopted by myself, (op.
cit., p. 193).
In fact, one well preserved specimen, a right ramus seen upon the outer surface, shows but five molars.
If this specimen be adult, as seems improbable, it may i*epresent a new genus transitional between 1 '"'The Structure and Classification of the Mesozoic Mammalia."
Journ.
of the Acad, of Nat.
Sciences of Philadelphia, vol.
i.\, no.
2, July 1888.
'■^ I am indebted to Mr. Plattnauer, the Curator of this Museum, for the opportunilv of freely examininy; this sjiecimen.
Amphilestes with six molars and Triconodon Avith four.
The second specimen, a left ramus also seen upon the outer surface, has three premolars f».
situ and the space for a fourth, (7?3»i ); in front of this is a deeper alveolus, probably for the canine, preceded by the alveoli of at least three incisors, so that the lower dental formula may now be given Avith considerable certainty as follows: ih-, CuPi, me.
The canine is not preserved.
The premolars as viewed upon the outer surface have prominent cingules but not the true basal cusps seen in Triconodon.
The outer face of the molars is entirely devoid of a cingulum.
None of the specimens give any evidence that the angle is distinct, but indicate that the lower border rises to the level of the condyle precisely as in PhascoJotheriuvi, Spahicotherium and Triconodon.
This strengthens the writer's reference of these genera to one family as opposed to the views of Marsh and Lydekker; nevertheless, as shown below, Spalacotherium is a more specialized type than the others.
PHASCOLOTHERIUM.
Besides the type in tlie British ^Museum there is a beautifully preserved specimen belonging to this genus in the Oxford Museum and through the kindness of Mr. James Parker of Oxford the writer had an opportunity of examining a third specimen in his private collection.
The latter, which has been figured in Phillips' "Geology of Oxford," is remarkable for the extension of the coronoid beyond the vertical line of the condyle.
The Oxford INEuseum specimen^ contains only the four posterior molars, probably nii — m-; with the fangs of 5)1.2 iind m;^.
It may however be readily distinguished from the Amphilestes specimens by the stout cones and by the fact that the internal cingulum rises in two points upon the inner faces of the molars instead of in a single point beneath the protocone; also by the stout character of the jaw\ A renewed study of the molar teetli in the type specimen shows that all the post-canine teeth present the characters of molars in some re-ipects.
The first tooth behind the canine has a main cusp like that of the posterior molars and an internal cingulum horizontal and rising in two points instead of showing the sweep downwards and backwards which is so characteristic of premolar cingula.
The accessory cusps are either covered Avith matrix or broken off.
The second tooth has a fractured cingulum so that one cannot determine 1 The cavt of this specimen in the Natural Histury Museum (m. 230(1) has been mistakenly referred to AmphiUstes by Lydekker, op.
cit., p. 272, on the ground of ■"the small development of the accessory fore-and-aft cusps."
The basal cusps of the molars are quite as prominent as in the type.
whether the anterior cusp is a cingule or a true paracoue.
The posterior cusp or metAcone is prominent and distinct as in the premolars of Tricoiiodon.
The chief interest lies in the main cusp which is loftier and more pointed than the protocone of the tJiird tooth Avhich in turn has all the characteristics of a molar.
This is an important point which has been overlooked previously, since it appears to indicate an available line of division in the functional adaptation of the series, i. e. a line between premolar and molariform teeth.
If such a division be confirmed by further examination of the first and second teeth, it will lessen the gap between Amphilestes and this genus and remove what has been considered an entirely exceptional feature, viz.
a type with no premolariform teeth.
The mandibular formula may then be provisionally written thus: %, Ci, p.,, The crowns of this front pair of teeth have never been correctly represented.
The writer's figure (op.
cit., PI.
8, fig.
3) is incorrect in restoring the cingulum of the second tooth and the basal cusps of the first tooth.
In this Buckland's figure was followed, believing it probable that the jaw was in better condition when he figured it than now, for the last molar was then present.
Another error in the drawing is the high position of the dental foramen, to wliich Professor Marsh kindly directed attention.
AMPHITYLUS.'
In the type of this genus at Oxford the teeth are so fractured that it is impossible to form any idea of their full structure.
There is some doubt whether the deutal formula, ("4, Cj, ^4, m-, as generally given, is correct; one cannot be positive, for the 4th and 5th postcanine teeth are much mutilated; the characters of the condyle and angle, however, separate this specimen clearly from Amphilestes.
At the time this genus was jiroposed the writer supposed we had in No.
36822 (Brit.
Mus.
Coll.)
a ramus showing the outer face of the Amphitherium molars, but this ])roves to have been a mistake.
The crowns of the last three molars in Amphifylus show a jjrominent posterior or tliird cusp, of wliich there is no evidence upon the molars o^ Amphitherinm, as seen upon the inner face.
The penultimate and ante-penultimate molars also retain this third cus)).
The fourth, fifth and sixth molars counting from the last, show the trifid division of the crown characteristic of the tric(modont type, then follow the tAvo mutilated teeth with bifid crowns which may represent either premolars or molars.
Thus the formula may read either 1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Phila.
June 21, IS87.
1888.]
295 ,A ^ U, Ci, Pi, !U,;, ov p^, m^, as given by Lydekker and adopted by the writer.
Owen's formula, jh,, 5»g, includes the canine in the premolar series.
PERAMUS.
We are fortunately able to greatly increase our knowledge of this genus.
Upon uncovering the anterior molars of the type specimen of Leptocladus, an antero-internal cusp came into view, leading to the discovery that the latter genus is identical with Peramus, and still more interesting is the fact that the type specimen of Spalacotherium minus, (Owen) presents the much de^-x -f sired internal view of the ( Peramus molars.
A third '■-''-"^^ specimen confirms the facts derived from tlie second and shows that altogether there are six or, possibly, seven specimens in the British Museum collection which should be referred to this genus, giving us nearly all the characters of the mandibular dentition.
These are: The type, No.
4774i^, also No's, 47744, 47754, 47743.
All except the last, portions of /'.
/e/iu/ros/ns Owen.
Outer face of anterior the left mandibular ramus portion of left ramus.
Also, Second Molar geen upon the outer face.
of Amphilheriuvi Prevoslii Owen, inteinal j>gfgj.j,g(| j^y Owcn tO PeramUS view.
Also, Second molar of P. tniniis, i ]„,,+„^i u,, T ^..^1^1-1-.^,.
'and so adopted bv L/yaeKker cnlarCTed from fi".
1 a aliove ; internal vie\\'.
, .
„„_ , " ^ , 1 / -A , -A (op.
Clt., p.
277.)
/r, protoconid./^, paraconid, me, metaconid.
■ ^ ' ^ ^ /Jj', hypoconid.w^r, mylohyoid groove.
Much To which should be added: enlarged.
No.
47,739. the type of Leptocladus dubhis, (Owen, op.
cit., p. 58, PI.
Ill, fig.
4 ; Osborn, op.
cit., p. 289, PI.
9, fig.
10 ; Lydekker, op.
cit, p.
291.)
A left mandibular ramus seen upon the outer surface.
No.
47,751, tlie tyjie of Spalacotherium viinus.
(Owen, op.
cit., p. 28, PI.
I, fig.
39.)
A left ramus seen upon the inner face.^ The heel upon the molars of S. minus and the antero-internal cusp upon the antepenultimate molar of Leptocladus suggested a ^ Also possibly, No.
47799, referred by I-ydekker to Spalacolheritint tniiius, op.
cit., p, i!04.
Fig.
].
a. Pdrauius {^Spalacoiherium^ minus Owen.
Internal view of left mandilndar ramus.
h. P. [Lefloclin/tis] ihihiits Owen.
External view of left mandibular ramus, c, fiirtlier examination which developed the fact that all the specimens of the oiiove list agree in the folloAving particulars: 1.
In evidence of the presence of three incisors, (No's 47744, 47739, 47743).
2, In evidence, direct and indirect, of the presence of six j^i'^'^nolariform teeth, (No's 47743, 47739, 47742).
3, In evidence of the presence of but three molariforni teeth.
4, In the fact that the mylohyoid groove does not terminate at the dental canal but extends back beneath the lower border of the pterygoid fossa, (No's 47751, 47754).
All the specimens which do not directly bear upon these four features of agreement support them indirectly, or at least present no negative evidence.
The formula, pm^, vi^, is very exceptional, and Mr. Oldfield Thomas, who kindly examined these specimens and discussed the dentition with the writer, suggested a different division of the series.
In No.
47739 the third and fourth premolars present lower crowns than the succeeding tooth, fig.
1 b, but this is apparently because the tips are not fully exposed.
And as we have at present uo other data than the mere form of the teeth, it seems that we are bound to take the dentition as it stands, exceptional as it is, and divide it provisionally as follows: The almost invariable presence of four premolars among the Mesozoic and recent mammals is a very difficult fa-ct to explain.
This genus and apparently Ampliitlierium are among the few exceptions.
Why was the line drawn exactly to include five teeth behind the incisor series, the first of these developing into a canine?
In describing Peramus (op.
cit., p. 2()3), the writer questioned the reference of the anterior portion of the jaw, (No.
47743) to iton several grounds, but now considers this less doubtful, as the single incisor preserved is very similar to that in No.
47744., and both differ from those of Stylodo)i, the only other type which this specimen resembles.
The last premolar has a heel very similar to that of the molars.
The molars, fig.
1 a, are very simihvr to those of some of the eocene Creodonta, presenting the primitive tuber cxdarsectorial type.
Among the Jurassic INIammals, they apparently approach most closely the molars of Amplutherlmn.
AMPHITHERIUM.
A comparison of the three specimens belonging to this genus, two in the Oxford collection, and the one previously studied in the British jMuseum, has enabled the writer to determine fully the structure of the molars and premolars and to correct a previous error.
In examining the first and second molars of the type specimen under a strong lens, an external cusp was detected directly between the internal pair, a discovery of great interest, since, in connection with the last genus, it adds two important types to the tritu])ercular series.
This external cusp is probably the one referred to by Owen, (op.
cit., p. 14) in describing the penultimate molar of the second specimen of Amphithermm.^ He si:»eaks of the latter tooth as the posterior molar, but one can detect the tips of a molar behind this, just bi'eaking through the jaw.
The molar of Amphitherium is thus apparently similar to that of Peramus wuth the exception that the external cusp, in the type species at least, is less lofty.
This observation led to a reexamination of the jaw in the British ^luseum, No.
36822.
This unquestionably belongs to Amphitherium, as previously determined, (Osborn, op.
cit., p. 192, fig.
2.; Lydekker, op.
cit., p. 374), but presents the inner face of the right ramus instead of the outer face of the left ramus as previously described.
This is proved by the double internal cusps, l)y the cingulum upon the premolar, and by the faint mylohyoid groove,' near the lower border, Avhich was previously overlooked.
The individual is much smaller and younger than the two Oxford types, which are nearly of the same size, and the tips of the paraand metacone?
are entirely unworn."
In the Memoir, the formula of ^4?jy9/iifAermm was doubtfully given as p)ih, »*6(following Lydekker).
An examination of the Oxford types shows that Prof. Owen was more nearly correct in putting it, jrwg, m^.
If we deduct the foremost bifanged tooth which he naturally reckoned with the premolar series, but which is probably the canine, we have Ci, pm-^, vig.
In the second Oxford specimen there are undoubted traces of three premolars in front of 1 "The posterior molar shows a middle internal and part of a larger external cusp."
This observation shows the keenness of the observer, for the molar referred to is in a very fractured condition.
The teeth in the Stonesfield Slate specimens are much more brittle than those in the Purbeck series, but it would 1 e well to run the risk (if injuring one of these molars to expose the external cone.
the two complete ones.
In front of these, Prof. Owen describes sockets for a bifanged tooth, (the canine), and for four single incisor fangs.
PERALESTES.
A reexamination of the superior molars in the type maxilla of this genus reveals an inconsi^icuous but important feature in tlie crown which escaped Professor Owen's notice as well as the writer's.
That is, the presence of a low transverse crest connecting the anterointernal and antero-external cusps.
This puts the functional adaptation of the Peralestes molar in a different light from that described in the Memoir, since it shows that this molar is subtrenehant.
A close examination of the anterior faces of these crests, moreover, yields some evidences of wear Idv the crown of an inferior molar.
These crowns ai'e placed somewhat obliquely, but when the jaw is tilted so that the teeth can be viewed directly upon end, they are seen to have a triangular section, with the base with its lesser cusps directed outwards, and the main cone directed inwards, precisely as in the primitive tritubercular crown.
When viewed in this w'ay,.
this pattern at once suggests that of the Spalacotherium lower molars,.
Avhich consists of a triangle reversing the al)ove, /.
e. with the main cone external and the base internal.
Mr. Lydekker was the first to reach this conclusion as to the probable identity of these two genera but upon different grounds,^ and the writer has hitherto held quitean opposite opinion,'which is now withdrawn.
The premolar formula of Peralestes is somewhat uncertain and the molars agree in number and size with those of Spalaeotherinm.
At present, however, the evidence for the union of these genera is hardly sufficient to justify more than the placing of Peralestes in brackets with the above genus.
STYLACODONTIDAE.
After all tlie systematic work which Iuts been done upon the genera embraced in this family, there are none in greater confusion as to no' " The true molars {o( Ferakstes) agree so closely in structure with those of Chrysochloris tliat there is every probahility that the specimen belongs to Spalacotherium triciispiiiens''' op.
cit., p. 294 : In the writer's opinion, the molars of Chrysochloi-is bear only a remote resemblance to those of Spalacotheiinni.
2 " A review of Mr. Lydekker's Arrangement of the Mesozoic Mammalia."
American Naturalist, March, 188S, p. 23'), " The molars of this genus are widely different from those of Spalacotherium etc."
1888.]
299 menclature.
As the writer anticipated after examining Prof. Marsh's Dryolesies, (Am.
Naturalist^ March 1888, p. 234 and Memoir, p.
236.)
the genera Amblotherium and Aehyrodon prove upon further examination and exposvire of the crowns to belong to the Stylodon type.
It further appears that Mr. Lydekker was correct in placing Peraspalax with Ainblothermm (op.
cit., p. 275), although he did not recognize the trituberculate character of the crown with the styloid external cone and two internal cusps and heel.
The writer was in error, first in describing the external cusp of the molars of this genus (Peraspalax) as separated by a valley from the internal cusps, for there proves to be a distinct transverse crest; probably also, second, in associating this jaw with the Peralestes maxilla, (op.
cit., p. 233).
It is now evident that the molars of Professor Owen's types of Amblotherlum soricinvm (Mes.
Mamm., 1871 p. 29) of ^1.
mustelula (ihid.,p.
31.
), of Phasct)Iestes longirostris (ibid., p.
35.
), of Aehyrodon nanus (ibid., p.
37.
), of A. pnsillus (ibid., p.
39.
), of Peraspalax; talpoides (ibid., p.
40.
), all present substantially the same crowns, (see Fig.
2).
It is also^probable, but not actually demonstrated, that Sfi/lodon pusillus (Geol.
Mag., 186G, p.
199.)
and S. robiistus (ibid.)
have the same molar pattern.
Professor Marsh has further applied a series of generic and specific names to the closely allied American genera.
Altogether it will prove a difficult matter to clear up the synonomy of these numerous species and will require a close examination and revision of all the material available.
It is singular, in view of the probable similarity of many of these species, that all the specimens referred to Stylodon, because exposing the external face, possess but seven molars, with one possible excepFig 2. a, Kiirlodon.
Superior molar series of the left maxilla, viewed upon the wearing surface, b, Antblotherium soricinttm, inferior molar series, viewed from above.
In A.
[Peraspalax) talpoides.
A lower molar viewed upon the internal face.
c. The same.
A lower molar viewed from above.
d, Aehyrodon nanus.
A lower molar viewed from above.
Much enlarged.
Abbreviations as in lig.
1. tion, while three of the specimens shown upon the inner face have eight moLirs.
As derived from a study of Professor Marsh's collection, the basis of distinction between these genera will depend: 1, upon the numlier of the teeth in the adult condition; 2, upon the presence of a heel, which is apparently wanting in Asthenodon ; 3, upon the presence of one or of two transverse crests connecting the external with the pair of internal cones.
The name Stylodon is preoccupied, but Amblotherium has the precedence of *S%^acodo?t, (Marsh) and A. soricinum can probably be retained for the larger species with seven molars, thus embracing S. 7'obustus with which it agrees closely in measurement.
Pkascolestes would then embrace the species with eight molars.
But these questions can only be finally determined by a careful revision of all the material.
It now seems probable that the type maxilla of Kurtodon (IS^o.
47755.)
fig.
2 a, should be placed somewhere in this series, as held by Owen and not represent a distinct family as maintained by the writer.
Since the original study and figuring of the molars, the matrix has been extensively removed, so that the outer faces of the crowns are exposed and show a low antero-internal cusp near the base of the crown ; tliis cusp is very important because it is apparently homologous with the postero-internal cusp of the Amblotherium louver molar.
Further, as Mr. Lydekker has ^^ointed out (op.
cit., p. 291) the block No.
47786 (S. pudllusf) contains upper molars of a very similar nattern associated with lower teeth, resemblino; those of Stylodon.
It is freely admitted that the views before expressed by the writer are not sustained by this additional evidence, although as to the more definite question, it is not as yet evident with which of these jaws the Kurtodon maxilla should be placed.
The question will l)e settled by the exposure and study of the crowns of the numerous specimens referred to Stylodon.
The Kurtodon crowns are unlike those of Amblotherium soricinum or of Achijrodon since the summit is much broader and the wearing surface, instead of being trenchant, is grinding, as previously described, (op.
cit., p. 109).
Summary.
The principle features of the present contribution are the following: 1, Additional characters of Amphilestes and the probable determination of the premolar-molar formula.
2, Additional chariicters of Phascolotheriwn, suggesting a division between molars and premolars.
3, A review of the Jm^^Ai^?/^^^ ^^^ntition.
4, The union of Leptocladus dnbiiis and Sjxdacotherium minns W\i\\ Percmms, and determination of the mandibular dentition of the latter o-enus.
The molars are tritubercular.
5, The discovery also of apparently tritubercular molars in Amphitherium and probable determination of the premolarmolar formula, (confirming Owen's views).
6, Confirming Lydekker's suggestion of the probable union of Peralestes with Spalacotherium, and of Peraspalax with Amhlotherium.
7, The probable union of Peraspalax, Amhlotherium, Achyrodoii, Phascolestes, Stylodon, and Kurtodon, into two or three genera with a substantially similar molar structure.
8, Th» correction of the writer's former views as to the family separation of the Peralestidce and probably of the Kurtodontidce.
The general result of the renewed and more extended study of these mammals has thus been, first to reduce the number of genera and eliminate tw^o of the families proisosed in the Memoir ; second, by the discovery of the molar structure of Amjohitherium and Peramns, to substantially reduce the number of molar types among the English genera to two, viz.
: the triconodont in Amj)hilestes,Phascolotherium, Tricoiiodon and probably AmiMtijlus, and the tritubercular in all the remaining genera.
This latter result is of great interest in its bearing upon the theory that the molar teeth of all the mammalia have either passed through the tritubercular stage or have been arrested at one of the steps in.
tooth development leading to this stage.
BERMUDA ISLANDS.
BY PEOF.
AXGELO HEILPEIX.
The following notes on the zoology of a group of islands but little known to the naturalist are based on personal observations, and on collections made during a brief sojourn on the islands during the past summer, in company with a class of students from the Academy of Natural Sciences.
But little systematic' work, other than that in the departments of orinthology, ichthyology, and botany, had hitherto been done in this remarkal)ly interesting, and typically oceanic, island group, and it was thought that a more critical survey misht bring out facts of general interest to the zoological student, and throw some additional light upon the intricate subject of zoogeography.
In the results obtained I have not been disappointed.
The exuberance of animal life has yielded much that has proved to be new to the systematist, while certain remarkable peculiarities in the distriliution of a number of well-known types of animals open up vistas in geograjihical distribution which appear to me at present to recede into darkness, and, perhaps, tend to draw only more closely the veil over this mysterious subject.
Much of my time was devoted to an examination of geological features, and, indeed, the special object of the journey Avas to ascertain, in the light of more recent inquiry, what evidence could be obtained from the Bermudas bearing upon the question of the growth and develojiment of coral islands.
The substance of my observations in this field will be presented in a future paper.
Only a portion of the zoological results is here published, inasmuch as additional material "in certain departments, intended to fill in gaps in the inquiry, has been promised by local collectors.
The specimens noted or described in the following pages were mainly obtained through dred^ings, which were carried on as well in the outer water as in the smaller interior sounds and lagoons.
As might have been anticipated the greatest profusion of animal life was found on the edge of the growing reef itself, the shoals surrounding the cluster of rocks on the northern barrier known as the North Rock.
The wealth of forms occui-ring here almost transcends belief; unfortunately, the combination of limited time at our command and the state of the weather prevented more than a cursory examination of'this locality, which is made comfortable for collecting and wadini^ during a partial exposure above water of some three hours.
All the dredgings were conlined to depths within 16 fathoms, Avhich also represents the greatest sounding made by us in the lagoons.
ACTINOZOA.
Tiie true stone corals of the Bermudas are comprised, as far as we now know, in some twenty-live species, the greater number of which are represented l)y identical forms in the Bahaman or West Indian seas.
The genera thus for indicated are Oculina, Mycediimi, Astrcea, SiderastrtBci, Porites, Isojihyl/ia, Mceandrina, and Dlploria.
The genus Madrepora, one of the commonest of the Bahaman and Floridian corals, appears to be absent.
On the south and east side of the island group the outer margin of the growing reef, largely covered by a serpuline and vermetus growth, approaches to within a few hundred feet of the shore, where it breaks the inflowing surf into a white crest.
Within the line of these breakers the depth of water is in places as much as ten or twelve fathoms.
The brain coral (Dijyloria) and various gorgonians develop here in great profusion, the huge yellow masses of the former aj)pearing almost everywhere at depths of from ten to twenty feet.
Vast growths of millepore also cover the -shallower bottou)s, presenting in the ensemble a wonderful garden of animal development. '
This profusion of coral growth is, however, surpassed on the north side, where the reef recedes to a distance of some eight or nine miles from the islandshores, enclosing an extensive body of water whose depth is in general about eight or ten fathoms, and more rarely twelve fathoms.
Much the same coral growth is indicated here as on the south side, the large brain corals preponderating l)y their masses.
While, prolDably, the greatest profusion of animal life is really met with on the actual edge of the growing reef, this does not appear to be the case with the corals themselves.
At any rate, I was unable to satisfy myself that there was any marked ■difference to be observed between the marginal growth and that which extends gradually backward from the margin into deep water.
Indeed, as far as the brain-corals themselves are concerned, it appeared to me that their largest masses were to be found some distance within the bounding reef, and consquently beyond the breaking action of the surf.
This condition is again shown in the comparatively quiet and sheltered waters of Castle Harbor, wdiere portions of the platform-bottom may be said to constitute one almost connected mosaic of huge Diplorias.
In so far, therefore, the Bermudas differ from the greater number of coral islands, in which, as is com monly stated, there is a marked deficiency in the coral growth within the bounding area, and an equally marked luxuriance on the crest and outer slope of the reef In most places the largest corals do not come nearer than a foot or two feet of the surfjice of this water, the massive brain-corals rarely appearing in water of less depth than rive or six feet.
But in the shallows off the North Rock we found Porites astra'oides almost at the surface in low water, and just off the entrance to Harrington Sound, on the north shore, Siderasfnea galaxea was covered by only about two inches of water.
The borders of Harrington Sound are largely overgrown with species oflsophyllia, which likewise approach to within a short distance of the surface.
In the greater depths of the Sound we found only Oculina, down to ten fathoms, the dredge-net being frequently caught and reversed by their ramose stems ; beyond ten fiithoms the dredge usually came up empty.
The following species were obtained by us : Mycedium fragile, Dana.
Two specimens.
North Rock ?
Oculina diffusa, Lamk.
Harrington Sound.
Oculina varicosa, Lesueur.
Harrington Sound.
Oculina pallens, Ehrenberg.
Harrington Sound.
I feel satisfied that' this species is identical with the preceding, the same stock bearing what might be considered to be typical representatives of both forms.
The amount of variation in the disposition of the calyces, as well as in their individual shape, is very great in this genus, and I am by no means sure that two or three of the other forms of Ocnlina here enumerated represent anything more than varietal modifications.
Pourtales, in his illustrations of the CQrals of the Florida reefs (Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zoology, VII, plates I and II) correctly refers, it seems to me, both types to a single species (A.
varicosa.)
Oculina speciosa.
Edwards and Ilaime.
Harrington Sound.
Oculina recta, Qucleh.
One specimen, from Harrington Sound, which agrees in the special characters of the species from St. Thomas (Quelch, Challenger Reports, Zoology, XVI, p.
51.)
The species does not appear to have been hitherto observed in the Bermudian waters.
Oculina coronalis, Queleh.
Harrington Sound.
First described from the Bermudas (Challenger Reports, Zoology, XVI, p.
49.)
Queleh, in his report on the reef-building corals of the Challenger {op.
cii., pp.
9 and 49), enumerates as an additional member of the Bermudian fauna the Oculina JBermudiana of Duchassaing and Michelotti.
I have been unable to find anything in the description or figures ftirnished by these authors (Supplement au Mhnoire sur lea Coralliaires des Antilles, p. 162, pi.
IX, figs.
1, 2 — Memorie della Reale Accad.
Seienze di Torino, Ser.
Sec, XXIII, 1866) to distinguish their species from Oculina sjyeciosa, nor does it appear to me to be distinct.
The characters upon which the form is separated are exceedingly trivial, and well within the amount of variability which is presented by individual specimens of nearly all the species of Oculina.
I further believe that 0. coronalis, and possibly also 0. recta, will have to be united with 0. speciosa.
Isophyllia australis ?
Edwards and Haime.
Three specimens from the North Rock, doubtfully identified with this species.
Isophyllia fragilis T Dana.
I am unable to satisfy mj self as to the positive existence of this species in Bermuda, although Queleh refers to a single specimen having been obtained there by the Challenger party.
This authority doubtfully refers one of the forms figured by Pourtales (op.
cit., pi.
VII, fig.
3) as I. dipsacea to Dana's species, but from an examination of a number of Bermudian specimens which agree absolutely with Pourtales's figure I am fairly convinced that this identification is incorrect.
The specimens do certainly not agree sufiiciently with Dana's description, and if they are not the types of a distinct species, then they represent probably only a certain phase of development of /.
dipsacea, as in indicated by Pourtales.
Isophyllia dipsacea, Dana.
Three specimens, from Castle Harbor.
Isophyllia strigosa, Duchai^saing and Michelotti.
A number of specimens, from Harrington Sound, which agree with the description of this species.
I am doubtful as to the species being distinct from Isophyllia dipsacea ; possibly, however, some of 21 tlie varieties (so-called) of the latter species figured by Pourtales are really members of this sj)ecies.
Its principal distinguishing characters appear to be the thinner and more irregular septa, and the terminal cleft that indents or separates the septa of opposing calyces where they cross the common wall.
It also presents a more bristling iipjjearance than I. dijisacea.
Isophyllia Guadeloupensis, Pourtales.
One specimen.
This appears to be a good species, although by 'Quelch it is referred lo Isoj^hyllia strigosa.
In addition to these forms Quelch enumerates Isophyllia {Symphyll'.a) marginata, I. cylindrica, and I. Knoxi, all of Duchassaiug and Michelotti, as having been obtained at the Bermudas, but I have failed to detect any specimens among our collections Avhich can be confidently referred to these species.
On the other hand, I find ■one or two forms which I have not yet been able to identify with any described forms.
Siderastrsea galaxea, Ellis and Solander.
Abundant on the shoals of Gallows Island, near the mouth of Flatts Inlet, where the colonies come to within about two inches of the surface; also on the borders of Harrington Sound.
Porites clavaria, Lamk.
Two specimens, dredged in Harrington Sound.
Torites astraeoides, Lamk.
We found this species very abundantly along the outer reef, -especially on the flats of the North Rock, where it is the dominant form of coral.
The species appears to have been overlooked by the Challenger party, and indeed, the only reference that I have been able to find indicating the occurrence of this common West Indian form among the Bermudas is contained in Mr. Rathbun's list of the species of Porites in the United States National Museum (Proc.
U. S. National Museum, 1887, p. 354).
Mseandrina labyrinthica, Ellis and Solander.
Three specimens, from the North Rock.
Mseandrina strigosa, Dana.
This form is represented by large, sub-globose specimens, one of which, obtained through purchase, and probably from Castle Harbor, has an exceedingly attenuated base of attachment.
The corallum is thus openly turbinate, or even pediculate, and exhibits in regularly scalariform outline the successive stages of outward development.
Diploria cerebriformis, Lamk.
This species is exceedingly abundant in the shoals lying to the leeward of the marginal reef, where its huge hemisi^herical or reniform masses of bright orange, measuring as much as four or five feet in diameter, can be distinctly seen through the transparent waters at depths of from six to fifteen or twenty feet.
I cannot say how much farther down the species extends.
It is equally abundant in Castle Harbor, where it is largely instrumental in building out the shore-platform which, at a moderate distance from the shore, descends vertically into deeper water.
When attached by a contracted base, the brain-coral may be readily removed from its moorings; but where the base is largely co-extensive with the under-surface of the corallum the difficulties of removal are very great, necessitating much undercutting with a chisel.
The largest specimen obtained by us measured about 28 inches across ; our efforts to dislodge a specimen about four feet in diameter proved unsuccessful.
Diploria Stokesi, Edwards and Haime.
We obtained a number of specimens of this species in Castle Harbor and through presentation ; for the latter my thanks are due to Miss A. Peuiston, of Penistons.
The habitat of the species, as far as I am aware, had not hitherto been noted.
Edwards and Haime in their description of the species (Hist.
Nat.
des Coralliaires, II, p. 403, pi.
T>, fig.
3) state " Patrie inconnue. "
I believe it may be assumed that this species is the form described and figured by Knorr as 3fadrepora labyrinthiformis (Delicice Natures.
Selectee, I, p. 18, PI.
A 4, fig.
1).
In our collections we have a closely related, and possibly identical species, which assumes a ring form, and in which the peculiar calycular hollows of D. Stokesi run out into parallel transverse grooves on the inner side of the ring.
ALCYONARIA.
The gorgonians are abundant in the waters inside of the bounding reef, whence nearly all our specimens were obtained.
A few were nipped up on the south side of Castle Harbor, and at the passage way conducting from the north into that body of water.
Rhipidogorgia flabellum, Valenciennes.
The purple variety of this species is abundant more particuhirly in the northern waters, both near the outer reef and on the shallows known as Devonshire Flats.
We failed to obtain any of the yellow forms, and I am not positive that this vai'iety has ever been found at the Bermudas.
Gorgonia (Plexaura) purpurea, Pallas.
Gorgonia (Plexaura) flexuosa, Lamouroux.
This species, of which we obtained several S2:)ecimens, is, I believe, without doubt the Gorgonia anguiculus of Dana (U. S. Exploring Expedition, Zoophytes, p. 668).
It is referred to under Lamouroux's name as a member of the Bermudian fauna in Dana's " Corals and Coral Islands, " p. 114, 1872.
Gorgonia (Plexaura) liomomalla, Esper.
Gorgonia (Plexaura) multicauda, Lam.
( Gorgonia crassa, Ellis and Solander.)
(G. verviiculata, 'Edwards and Haime.)
The exact limitations and synonymy of this species are difficult to make out, but as far as my studies have permitted me to analyze the forms above indicated from the rather insufficient or deficient descriptions that have been furnished by their authors, they appear to represent an identical form.
As such as I have accordingly referred them in this list.
Gorgonia (Plexaura) dichotoma, Esper.
A single specimen, measuring about a foot and three-quarters in height, with the main stems somewhat over a half-inch in diameter.
Gorgonia (Eunicea) pseudo-antipathes, Lam.
One much branched specimen, and another, slightly differing, which appears to belong to the same species.
Pterogorgia acerosa, (?)
Pallas.
A single specimen of a large Pterogorgia, entirely stripped of coenenchyma, and measuring about two and a-half feet in height, was obtained through purchase at the Crawl.
The axial skeleton is yellowish, or of the color of earth.
The terete branches are much more broadly spreading than in P. setosa, and unite into a common basal stalk which is upwards of two inches in thickness.
The pinnules are very numerous, exceedingly slender, and pendulous, giving to the whole organism the decided appearance of a weeping-willow.
I have not been able to satisfy myself as to the exact affinities of this species.
It appears to differ broadly from the common purple sea-feather of the West Indies, and does not have the depressed branches which are assumed for Esper's Pterogorgia acerosa.
It is, however, with little doubt one of the forms that are included by Pallas in his Gorgonia acerosa {Qiiercus marina Theophrasti), and may be the one that is referred to by Milne-Edwards as Pterogorgia Sloanei.
Of the species of gorgonians above enumerated Dana indicates Rhiindogorgia flahellum, Gorgonia flexuosa, G. homomalla, and G. crassa as coming from the Bermudas (" Corals and Coral Islands, " p. 114).
I find no mention in any more recent work of the occurence there of either Gorgonia j^seudo-antipathes or G.dichotovia.
On the other hand, we failed to obtain the Pterogorgia Americana mentioned by Dana.
ZOANTHIDJE.
Of the zoanthoid forms of actinians we collected three species, Palythoa (Corticifera) glareola, Lesueur, P. ocellata, Ellis and Solander, and a species of Zoantha, closely related to Z. sociata, but possibly new.
The first of these species was found in large encrusting masses at the North Rock, partially exposed at low water.
The glary white or yellowish crusts were nearly half an inch in thickness.
Palythoa ocellata also occurs, but more sparingly, at the same locality ; on the western exposure of Gallows Island, at the entrance to Elatts Inlet, it was much more abundant, forming large patches in association with Siderastrcea galaxea.
The species of Zoantha was sparingly developed off" Gallows Island, but in one or more rockhollows in Tucker's Town Bay, Castle Harbor, the bright green colonies of this beautiful polyp were plentiful.
ECHINODERMATA.
HOLOTHURIA.
The animals of this order are in places excessively abundant ; indeed, excepting the corals, they may be said to constitute the most distinctive feature of the fauna of the sand bottoms.
Where other forms are apparently entirely a])sent, the black masses of the great Stichopus stand out in ])rominent relief over the white bottom.
Motionless, seemingly, during the greater part of their existence, these singular creatures present the appearance of big black blotches on the sand, of which they consume, whether for nourishment or otherwise, vast quantities.
All the individuals that were opened had their intestinal canal, or more jiroperly, their entire digestive tracts, completely choked with calcareous particles.
The following are the species of holothurians observed by us, only one of w^hich, I believe, had hitherto been noted from the Bermudas : Holothuria Floridana, Pourtales.
(Holothuria atra, Jager.)
PI.
14, figs.
6, 6a, 7, 7a.
I identify with this species five small individuals of an olive-green color which were obtained in Castle Harbor, and which in a general way agree with the description of the species given by Pourtales (Proc.
American Assoc, 1851, p. 12).
Unfortunately, no figure accompanies the description, and that part which pertains to the calcareous bodies embodied in the skin is too vague to permit of specific determination.
Selenka (Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftlklie Zoologie, xvii, p. 324, 1867) has supplemented the original description with furtlaer details of structure and with illustrations of the spicules, which practically leave no doubt in my mind that the Bermudian forms, even though differing somew^hat from the type described by Pourtales, are really that species.
I have examined the spicular bodies of all the individuals, and find that they exhibit considerable variation (PI.
14, figs.
6, Qa, 7, 7a).
This is especially noticeable in the form of the stools.
I really doubt if very much dependence can be placed upon these bodies as furnishing characters for specific distinction.
I also find a certain amount of variation in the number of tentacles.
Thus, while four of the individuals have the normal number I'f tentacles, 20, one has only 10, although in all other essentials of structure it agrees with the remaining four.
The dorsal surface is distinctly papillate.
The elongated yellowish pedicels of the ventral surface are irregularly distributed, as stated by Selenka, and I could not determine any strictly linear disposition such as in indicated by Pourtales.
The largest specimen measures about two and a half inches.
Semper, Ludwig, and Lampert (Die Seewalzen, Semper's JReisen im Archipel der Philippinen., 1885, p. 86) identify this species with the Holotlmria atra of Jiiger (1833), whose range is made to be practically cosmopolitan — extending from the Radack Archipelago and the Sandwich Islands to Adelaide, Zanzibar, the Ked Sea, and the West Indies — but on this point I can offer no satisfactory evidence, never having had an opportunity to examine authentic specimens of Jiiger's species.
Holothuria captiva, Ludwi^.
(PI.
14, figs.
4, 4a) Two individuals, agreeing with the species described by Ludwig from the Barbados.
Holothuria abbreviata, n. sp.
(PI.
14, figs.
5, 8, 8a.)
Among the smaller forms of holothurians is one which in many of its characters agrees most closely with Ludwig's H. captiva, but yet differs to such an extent as to compel me to recognize it as a distinct species.
Indeed, by many systematists it would probably be made the type of a distinct sub-genus or genus.
The distinguishing peculiarity is the abrupt truncation of the body, which carries the vent on the dorsal surfoce, immediately about the extremital border.
In the single specimen before me I could determine only 17 tentacles, with as many tentacular vesicles, and but a single Polian body.
A large Cuvierian bundle is present.
The pedicels are arranged ventrally in three more or less distinct rows.
Color olive green.
Length about two inches.
The stools, buttons, and fenestrated plates of the pedicels are figured on plate 14.
It will be seen that in general they bear a close resemblance to those o?
Holothuria captiva, but the rounded summits of the stools serve readily to distinguish them from the somewhat similar, but more strictly castellated, bodies of the other species.
SEMPEKIA.
Semperia Bermudensis, n. sp.
(PI.
14, figs.
2, 2a, 3.)
Body cylindrical, spindle-shaped, tapering almost equally to both extremities.
Tentacles 10, of which 4 are shorter than the remaining 6 ; pedicels crowded, arranged in five broad rows, and scattered over the interambulacral areas ; two genital bundles, with very numerous non-divided, and greatly elongated filaments ; two Polian vesicles ; two long respiratory trees.
Color greyish white, minutely speckled with brown ; five narrow longitudinal brown bands separating the ambulacral areas.
Length about 05 inches.
Calcareous bodies consisting of baskets, knotted and smooth buttons, and perforated more or less circular disks ; pedicels with fenestrated plates.
Calcareous ring with long back processes for the attachment of the powerful retracted muscles.
One specimen, from the north shore about a half-mile west of Flatts Village.
I first mistook this species for the Semperia (ColocJiirus) gemmata of Pourtales (Proc.
Amer.
Assoc, 1851, p. 11), described from Sullivan's Island, coast of South Carolina, but the more exact descriptions and figures of that species given by Selenka and Lampert convince me that it is quite distinct.
Both species are of a greyishwhite color, but no mention is made by either of the authors above quoted of the existence in the Carolinian form of the five longitudinal brown bands which extend over the entire length of the Bermudian species.
Apart from this, Semjjeria Bermudensis differs in the disposition of the tentacles, the greater number of Polian vesicles, and the character of the spicular buttons, which are in the greater number of instances strongly knotted.
The posterior processes of the calcareous ring appear also to be much more elongated.
From Semperia (Cueumaria) punctata, described by Ludwig from the Barbados {Arheiten aus clem zoolog.
zootom.
Instituts in Wurzburg, ii, 1875, p. 82) the species differs, apart from the general scheme of coloring — tentacles as well as body — in the different disposition of the tentacles (9 equal in S. punctata, according to Ludwig), the smaller number of Polian vesicles (5 in iS.
punctata^, and in the much greater number of filaments composing the genital bundles.
The vent does not appear to have been rayed.
Ludwig states that there are in his species no calcareous eeth aboui the anal aperture, whereas Lampert just as positively asserts that they are present (Semper, Philippiiien, 1885, p. 152).
None such were detected in the Bermudian form.
STICHOPUS.
Stichopus diaboli, n. sp.
(PI.
1.5, Figs.
1, la.
lb, 2.)
Body stout, more or less quadrangular, flattened ventrally, .and bearing two rows of prominent marginal, wart-like, tubercles ; sometimes two additional rows of minor tubercles are noticeable on the lateral margins of the dorsum.
Tentacles 20, unequal.
Dorsal papillae scattered, not prominent, leaving the surfixce nearly smooth.
Pedicels and papillae on ventral surface arranged in three broad bands, which are more or less distinct for the entire length of the body, but most distinct near the extremities ; numerous in each transverse row.
The body-cavity is largely occupied by the greatly developed, and finely dissected, respiratory apparatus, and by the loops of the variously branched genital organs, which are disposed in two great bundles.
Tentacular vesicles jiresent.
Two Polian vesicles.
Calcareous ring with long back processes.
Calcareous bodies in the form of stools very numerous (PI.
15, fig.
16.)
C-shaped bodies very scanty, and possibly in some cases entirely wanting.
Color black, somewhat more intensely so on the dorsal surface, becoming Vandyke brown or chocolate in alcohol.
Length, about one foot ; width of corresponding animal about three inches.
Abundant over the sandy floor of the entrance to Harrington Sound, opposite Flatts Village, in Harrington Sound, and in Castle Harbor, whence it was obtained in several of our dredgings.
I have little doubt that this species is the dark-brown form which is referred to by Theel as having been obtained by the officers of the Challenger at the Bermudas, and which is doubtfully referred by that authority to Semper's Stichopus Haytlensis (Report on the Holothuroidea, Challenger Re^jorts, Zoology, XIV, p.
162.)
But a single specimen appears to have been obtained, which when examined was too deformed to permit of positive specific determination.
I cannot agree with Theel's determination.
Apart from the differences which Theel himself points out, is the great diffierence in coloring.
Semper {Reisen, Philippinen, Holothurlen, 1868, p. 75) states that his species is dark chocolate-brown, blotched with yellow spots, which form five longitudinal bands, corresponding to the interradii.
No such coloration is visible in our species, although probably -vve observed as many as a hundred individuals, all of which were uniformly black.
Semper's description of the coloring of Stichopus Haytiensis is restated by Lampert.
Stichopus xanthomela, n. sp.
(PI.
14, fig.
1 ; PL 15, fig.
3.)
Body stout, flattened ventrally, and bearing on the basal margin two rows (one row on each side, as in the preceding species) of prominent wart-like processes.
Tentacles 18, unequal, Avhitish or gray, edged with brown.
.
Dorsal papilhe fairly prominent, scattered.
Pedicels on ventral surface crowded, arranged in three longitudinal series, five to eight, or more, in each transverse row.
Body-cavity, as in the preceding, largely occupied by the respiraatory tree and the double genital bundle, the filamental processes of the latter much finer than in S. diaboli.
Tentacular vesicles present.
One (?)
Polian vesicle.
Calcareous bodies, in the form of stools (PI.
15, fig.
3), very numerous.
C-shaped bodies scarce, in the form of broadly-opened calipers.
Ground-color reddish-yellow, irregularly blotched with black or very dark brown.
The spots on the ventral surface more or less coalescent in the median line, forming there a broad longitudinal band, or entirely united to form a uniformly dark-colored base ; on the back, united into two irregularly ramifying or wandering bands.
Length of longest specimen about ten inches ; width about two and a-half or three inches.
The same habitat as that of the preceding species, although apparently much less abundant.
I strongly suspect that this is the form which Theel, in his report on the Challenger holothurians (loc.
clL, p. 159), identifies with Siichopus Mohii (Semper), one specimen of which, " rather deformed and compressed " when examined by Theel, was obtained at the Bermudas.
I assume the identity in this case, as well as in that of the preceding species, on the ground that the two species here described are the characteristic forms of the archipelago, and it is barely possible that they could have escaped the attention of the Challenger people.
But the identification with Semper's species appears to me to be erroneous.
The resemblance to Stichopns Mobil appears to rest almost wholly upon the form of the spicules, which are largely similar in many very distinct forms of Siichopus, and in a general scheme of coloring.
But Semper distinctly states (Holothurien, loc.
ciL, p. 246) that the characteristic spots are almost wholly wanting on the ventral surface, and no mention is made of their occurrence there by Lampert, in his revision of the species of the genus (op.
cif., p.
108.)
Moreover, Semper affirms that the body is devoid of wart-like tubercles, whereas such are quite prominent in the Bermudian form, although not as prominent as in Siichopus diaholi.
Theel, however, makes no mention of the occurrence of tubercles in his single specimen, but probably through contraction in alcohol their existence had been effaced.
The number of pedicels in each transverse row seiems also to be much more numerous in the Bernnidian species than iu Siichopus Mobii.
Another apparently related form is Siichopus errans of Ludwig (Arbeiieu zoolog.
zooiom.
Insi., Wurzburg, 1875, p. 97), described from a specimen in the Hamburg Museum, reputed to have come from the Barbados.
But in this species there appear likewise to be no lateral tubercles, nor is the coloring like that of our species, although in this regard there may be considerable variation.
The number of tentacles is stated by Ludwig to be 19, and their color yellow.
The form from the Barbados which is somewhat doubtfully referred by Theel {loc.
cit., p. 191) to Ludwig's S. errans would seem to be more nearly related to the Bermudian species.
ASTEROIDEA.
We obtained but a single species of star-fish on the Bermudian coast.
This is the Asterias Atla)dica of Verrill, a form which had already been previously noted from the Bermudas (Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sciences, i, p. 368), and whose range extends to the Abrolhos Reef, Brazil.
With very few exceptions the rays were either six or eight in number, and of the total number of individuals examined I believe that not over two had five arms.
The species exhibits a marked want of constancy in ornamentation and coloring, the dorsal spines being in some cases acute, while in others they are terminated by a minute bead ; again, while the maculation is brown in some individuals, in others it is blue, or of both colors combined.
Asterias Atlantica, VerrilL Common in the entrance to Harrington Sound, opposite Flatts Village — under stones ; dredged in Harrington Sound.
Ophidiaster Guildingii, Gray.
This species, which was first described from St. Thomas, is apparently a member of the Bermudian fauna.
A single specimen, marked as having been collected by Mr. Janney in the Bermudas, is in the possession of the Academy of Natural Sciences.
OPHIUROIDEA.
Six species of ophiurians wei-e obtained in our dredgings and under rock shelters, the greater number of which, as far as I am aware, had not hitherto been reported from the Bermudas.
For a critical examination and review of the species I am indebted mainly to my assistant, ]Mr. J. E. Ives, who has made a careful study of all the species in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences.
From an examination of many of these forms I feel satisfied that too much dependence should not be placed upon the constancy in minute details of either the form or relative size of the arm plates and their appendages, nor upon an exact scheme of coloration.
These characters, and others that may be added, which have been drawn in very close limits by Mr. Lyman in his several memoirs, vary materially within the limits of the same individual, and render the discrimination of species which have been most "elaborately " defined as to exact lengths and breadths of the arm-shields and oval plates, the precise form and number of the arm spines, etc., a matter of almost hopeless possibility.
OpMocoma crassispina, Say.
One specimen, taken at low water from the North Rock, which agrees perfectly with the species described by Say from the coast of Florida (Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila.
v, p. 147).
This species is generally considered to be identical with the Ophiocoma ( Ophiurd) echinata of Lamarck, but I am disposed to consider this identification erroneous, unless, indeed, several distinct forms, as has been averred by Miiller and Troschel (System der Asteriden, 1842, p. 98), were included by Lamarck in his species.
Two distinct forms, closely related to each other, certainly do occur in the West Indies, one of which, with more blunt arm spines, is dearly Say's species, wdiile the other, with more elongated arm spines, and much less stoutly developed uppermost spine, more nearly corresponds to the general type of Lamarck's species.
Ophiocoma pumila, Liitkcn.
A fragmentary specimen ; exact locality unknown.
This species had been recorded by the Challenger from Bermuda.
OpMostigma isacantha, Say.
Two very young specimens, dredged in Harrington Sound.
Ophiactis Krebsii, Liitken.
0.
MuUerl, Lfitken ?
Two very young specimens, dredged on the north shore between Bailey's Bay and Shelly Bay, which manifestly belong to one or the other of the above species, although partaking of the characters of both.
They agree with 0.
Krebsii in having a lobe to the outer edge of some of the upper arm plates, and in the banded character of the arms, while they differ from that species in having but four arm spines.
In this respect they agree with 0.
Mulleri.
Possibly the two species are only varieties of the same form.
Ophionereis reticulata, LUtken.
Very abundant at low tide ^i the rock shelters of Shelly Bay ; also under stones at the entrance to Harrington Sound.
Ophiomyxa flaccida, LUtken.
Oue specimen, dredged in Bailey's Bay.
ECHINOIDEA.
The number of species of echinoids observed by us is six, of which five had already previously been ascribed to the archipelago ; Cidaris tribuloides, as far as I am aware, had not hitherto been collected — at any rate I have been unable to find any mention of its occurrence there.
One species, Mellita sexforis, we did not ourselves collect, the specimens in our possession having been kindly donated to us by local collectors.
Cidaris tribuloides, Bl.
Fairly abundant among the coral shelters of the North Rock.
Diadema setosa, Gray.
This species, one of the gems among sea-urchins, is exceedingly abundant in the flats about the North Rock, where, in magnificent contrast to the wealth of color by which it is surrounded, its ebonyblack masses stand out in prominent relief from the coral shelters which it inhabits.
All the individuals occupied recesses in the coral growth, which they had by some means probably managed to keep open.
It seems hardly likely that they should have crept into these shelters after they had been already formed, and that the association is one of mere selection.
It is a noteworthy fact that while most of the animal forms inhabiting this portion of the growing reef were brilliantly colored, harmonizing with, and shielding, one another by their party tints of red, yellow, purple, and green, these urchins were alone conspicuous by the absence of any such protective cloak ; but just in their case no protective guise in the form of coloring would be needed, inasmuch as these animals are abundantly able to shield themselves by means of their extremely attenuated spines.
This species is also abundant in the moderately deep water that lies within the reef border.
Hipponoe esculenta, Leske.
North Rock, and the deeper water within the growing reef.
Echinometra subangularis, Lcske.
Several specimens from the flats about the North Rock.
There is a certain amount of variation in the coloration of the spines, which ranges from olive or sea-green to purple.
Toxopneustes variegatus, Lamk.
We found this species very abundantly in Harrington Sound, where it rarely escaped being hauled up in our dredge.
It seems to frequent the calcareous bottom to a depth of 10-12 fathoms, or even more.
Probably the species is equally abundant elsewhere.
Mellita sexforis, Agassiz.
As before remarked, we did not ourselves obtain any specimens of this species.
It is said to be abundant along the calcareous bottoms of some of the inlets, as, for example, opposite Flatts Village.
CRUSTACEA.
For the following notes on the Crustacea I am principally indebted to Mr. Witmer Stone, one of my assistants on the trip, who has made a careful study of all our specimens, as well as of the allied and identical species contained in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences.
In the case of in any way doubtful forms I have personally satisfied myself as to the determinations, and particularly in cases where the geographical range appeared to indicate possible or probable error.
The occurrence in the Bermudas of a number of what had hitherto been considered to be distinctively Pacific or Old World types, as for example, Palemonella tenuipes (Sooloo Sea), Palemon affinis (Pacific), Penceus velutinus (Pacific) — may be considered positive, even though it be opjDosed to the common facts of zoogeography.
But this anomaly in distribution is again repeated among the mollusca, as will be seen in the enumeration of species in a future paper.
The total number of species here enumerated is not very large, but yet it is considerably in excess of the number published in any previous paper, probably one-half of the species being now for the first time credited to the Bermudas.
The species of some of the remaining groups — the Isopoda, Anqihi^^oda — still await analysis and determination.
BRACHYURA.
Microphrys bicornutus, Latr.
Three females and one male, collected on the beach at the entrance to Harrington Sound.
Mithraculus hirsutipes, Kingsley.
Two males and one small female, which agree in every way with the description of the species given by Kingsley (Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 20, p. 147), except in the number of teeth on the fingers, a character which appears to be very variable.
The three individuals differ in this respect among themselves.
Actaea setigera, Milne-Edwards.
One male dredged off Shelly Bay.
The individual differs from the description given by Milne-Edwards (Notiv.
Arch, du Mus.
d'Hist.
^a^., i, p. 271, pi.
xviii, fig.
2) in having the color of the outside 01 the hands red, instead of black.
It however agrees precisely with specimens attributed to jNIilne-Edwards' species in the collections of the Academy, and labeled as coming from the Florida reefs.
The species has also been recorded fi om Cuba.
Panopaeus Herbstii, var.
serrata, De Sausscn.
Numerous small specimens, both male and female, from under stones on the beach of St. George's Causeway, and at the mouth of Harrington Sound.
The specimens vary greatly in color, some being very light, others dark brown, while a few are reddish ; otherwise they are identical in structure.
The species, described in the Hist, Nat.
du Mexique et des Antilles (Cnistac, p. 16, pi.
1, fig.
7), had previously been recorded from the Bermudas.
Lobopilumnis Agassizii, Stimpson.
One small male, agreeing well with Stimpson's description (Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., ii, p. 142) except in that it lacks the subhepatic spine.
Recorded from Bermuda and Florida.
Neptunus hastatus, L. (^N.
dicanthus.)
Two small males.
Geocarcinus lateralis, Frem.
Numerous large specimens, from the banks and fields near the south shore.
We found them specially abundant near the locality known as Spanish Mark or the Chequer Board, and again not far from Penisk)n Pond.
The burrows in places extend diagonally three or four feet, or even more, beneath the surface, and the animals, rapidly retreating into these, are frequently difficult of capture.
This is, doubtless, the species that is referred to by Willemoes Suhm in the Challenger narrative as Gecarcinus lateralis, and is apparently the G. lagostoma (?)
described by Miers in the systematic portion of the Challenger Reports (Zoology, XVII, p. 218), in so far as this description applies to the single Bermuda specimen.
Nautilograpsus minutus, L. One small specimen dredged off Shelly Bay.
Grapsus maculatus, Catesby.
One large female, and numerous empty shells from Harris's Bay, south shore.
Pachy grapsus transversus, Gibbes.
Numerous specimens, including ovigerous females ; very abundant on the rocks about the mouth of Harrington Sound, and also on the Pigeon Rocks, Bailey's Bay.
Recorded from Florida, West Indies, Australia.
Cyclograpsus integer, Milne-Edwards.
One small female.
Species recorded from Brazil and Florida.
Goniopsis cruentatus, Latr.
One female, from the mangrove swamp of Hungary Bay, south shore.
Although the species was very abundant at this locality we only succeeded in catching a single individual.
The mangrove crab, or " mangrove climber " as the animal is sometimes called, burrows among the thickets of mangrove stems and roots, up which it not infrequently climbs to a height of several feet.
The great similarity existing between its coloring aud that of the bright and partially withered leaves of the mangrove, especially in the shades of yellow and red, renders the animal difficult of detection, and often at a distance of only a few feet, buried among the fallen leaves, these agile creatures escaped observation, even when attentively sought after.
We have here one of the most remarkable instances of protective coloring, or semi-mimicry, with which I am acquainted.
Sesarme cinerea, Bosc.
Numerous specimens, from the beach of Flatts Village.
The species was seen almost everywhere scampering over the rocks.
Calappa fiammea, Herbst.
A single male individual obtained through purchase.
Species previously recorded from the Bermudas.
ANOMURA.
Petrolisthes armata, Gibbes.
Five specimens., obtained on the beach of Flatts Village, appear to be identical with the form described under this name from Florida, (Proc.
Amer.
Assoc, 1850, p.
190.)
Cenobita Diogenes, Latr.
A number of living sj^ecimens obtained at Wistowe, opposite Flatts Village, and kindly presented to us by Miss Edith Allen, daughter of the American Consul.
Most of the animals are still living (October), and apparently flourishing, three months after their capture.
The shells occupied by the largest individuals are those of Natica catenoides.
Calcinus obscurus, Stimiison.
Several specimens obtained on the beach of Flatts Village.
Clibenarius (Pagurus) tricolor, Gibbes.
Numerous on the beach of Flatts Village and at the St. George's Causeway ; under stones, etc.
MACRURA.
Palinurus Americanus, Lamk.
We observed a number of specimens of the large Bermuda crayfish, but unfortunately obtained none.
I am unable, therefore, to state positively if the species is correctly referred, but in all probability it is the same as the common West Indian form.
Scyllarus sculp tus, Milne-Edwards.
One specimen, purchased at the Crawl, which agrees with MilneEdwards' description {Hist Nat.
des Crust., ii, p. 283) and Lamarck's illustration in iha Encijdopklie, pi.
320.
The locality of the original specimen appears to have been unknown, nor have I been able to obtain data regarding this species from any of the later writers, by many of whom it is entirely ignoi^ed.
Alpheus avarus, Pabr.
(J.. Edwardsii, Audouin.)
(J.. Bermudensis, Spence Bate.)
A series of some twenty specimens collected at the same locality shows considerable variety of form.
The smaller specimens are evidently the A. Bermudensis of the Challenger Reports, while the larger ones, agreeing with these in the structure of the head, etc., more nearly approximate in the configuration of the hand A. avarus and A. Edivardsii, the former a common Old World species, and the latter, a species described from the Cape Verde islands.
Our series contains what might be considered undoubted representatives of all three (so-called) species, showing all the gradations that unite or separate the forms from one another.
Hence, I am constrained 22 to look upon tliem as mere varietal forms of a single species, the Alpheus avarus of Fabricius.
The older the specimens, the more deeply grooved is in most cases the hand.
Alpheus minus, Bay.
A number of species taken from sponges and tunicates collected in Harrington Sound.
All the individuals were of small size, measuring rather less than an inch in length, although the females were abundantly provided with eggs.
Alpheus formosus, Gibbes.
One specimen (dredged) which agrees well with Gibbes' description (Proc.
Amer.
Assoc, 1850, p. 196), and seems to indicate that the species is distinct from Alpheus minus, witlr which it is united by Kingsley.
The specimen is larger than any of the individuals of A. minus, and is also differently colored, although appearing identical in alcohol.
Palsemonella tenuipes, Dana.
Several specimens dredged off Shelly Bay, which agree perfectly with the species described by Dana from the Sooloo Sea (U. S. Exploring Expedition, Crustacea, p. 582).
The remarkable distribution here indicated induced me to make a very careful examination of the Bermudian species, which has left no doubt in my mind as to the identity of the forms from the antipodal region of the earth's surface.
The only other known species of Palsemonella, P. orientalis (Dana), is likewise an inhabitant of the Sooloo Sea (Dana, op.
cit.
; Spence Bate, Challenger Reports, Zoology, XXIV, p. 786).
Palaemon affinis, Milne-Edwards.
Numerous specimens from shallow water, Castle Harbor.
All are exactly like one another, except in the number of teeth on the beak, which may be 8 above and 4 below, or in the relations of 8-3, 7-3, 9-3, and 9-4.
This character is manifestly a very variable one, and, therefore, of little or no value from a classificatory point of view.
The specimens agree well with the descriptions and figures of A. affinis, although that species has hitherto been recorded, as far as I am aware, only from the Pacific (obtained by Dana off New Zealand) The species is near to the Eurafrican P. squilla, but yet sufficiently* distinct to permit of ready recognition as only an allied form.
It is remarkable, in view of the distribution and the number of specimens that we obtained of this species, and the position of the island group, that we should have failed to obtain any individuals of the common form of the eastern United States, Pakemon vulgaris.
Whether the species is entirely absent or not I cannot of conrse say, but it is surprising that it should not have been observed by us.
Penaeus velutinus, Dana.
One specimen, which agrees with the figure and description of the species obtained by Dana off the Sandwich Islands (U. S. Exploring Expedition, Crustacea, p. 604), and which was subsequently collected by the Challenger party at various points in the Pacific, and between Australia and New Guinea (Challenger Reports, Zoology, XXIV, p. 253).
This species, as well as all the immediately related forms, has, as far as I know, been found thus far only in the Pacific.
The case is, therefore, another example of remarkable geographical distribution.
STOMATOPODA.
Gonodactylus chiragra, Latr.
One specimen from the beach of Flatts Village.
MOLLVSCA.
The enumeration of species of molluscous animals is left for a future paper, as our collections, large as they are, are doubtless in great part deficient.
Through the kind energies of local collectors I hope to supplement at an early day the material obtained by us and to present, as nearly as is possible, a full list of the species inhabiting the Bermudian waters.
We ourselves collected some 110 or 120 marine species, which is largely in excess of the number that has thus far l)een chronicled in any list of Bermudian species, but the examination of private collections in the islands satisfies me that there must be an additional 30 or 40 species, or more, that are common to the island group.
It is a well-known fact that the Bermudian molluscan fauna is distinctly, and it might be said, overwhelmingly Antillean in character, by far the greater number of species being found in the Bahaman and West Indian Seas, or along some part of the coast of Florida.
The practically total absence of species of the Eastern United States which are not found in the Floridian waters is astonishing, and shows how insuperable is the barrier which the waters of the Atlantic, and of the Gulf Stream particularly, offer to a free migration or dispersion of the species.
This, again, appears the more remarkable in the light of certain anomalies of distribution which a critical examination of the species reveals, and which had already in many cases been noted as a characteristic of the West Indian fauna.
Thus, of the various species of Triton, Triton chlorostoma and T. tuberosus are members of the Mauritian fauna, and Triton cynocephalus and T. pileare of the fauna of tlie Philippines ; Ranella cruentata crops up in the variety R. rhodostoma, from Mauritius.
Again, Epidromus concmnus, from the Philippines, is represented in our collections by a number of individuals which are absolutely undistinguishable, both in shell ornamentation and color-markings, from the Pacific specimens, although they differ somewhat from the closely related^.
Sivifti, from Antigua.
A number of other forms, common to the west coast of Africa and to the southern waters of Europe, also occur.
Among a number of American west coast species which, I believe, have not hitherto been recorded from the Atlantic may be mentioned Chama exogyra and Telllna Gouldii, both from the Californian coast.
In the case of both of these forms I have very carefully satisfied myself as to absolute identity.
Area solida from the west coast does not appear to differ measurably from A. Adamsii^ a West Indian form which has its representative in the Bermudian fauna.
The following notes on new species are given in advance of the publication of the full list.
CEPHALOPODA.
Cuttle-fishes are said to be abundant in the Bermudian waters, but we Avere not very successful in our search after these animals.
Two moderately large octopods, Avhich we could only see, but not obtain, may possibly be the common AVest Indian Octopus vulgaris, or one of the forms that have been separated off from it as a distinct species.
We made considerable efforts to capture one of these, but all our attempts to dislodge the creature from its hold upon the interior of a rock crevice were unavailing.
The following species Avas obtained beneath a stone on the beach of Flatts Village.
Octopus chromatus, n. sp.
(PI.
16, ffg.
1.)
Body spheroidal, somewhat acuminate behind, and impressed, but not furroAved, ventrally; mautle opening extending about one-half around the circumference of the body, and terminating some distance below and back of the eyes.
The head not much narrower than the body ; eyes not conspicuous, with a Avart above each ; funnel largely free, reachiug about half way to the base of the web, Avhich is about as long as the body and head combined.
Arms longest as 1.
3.
2.
4, althoiigli possibly the second pair outmeasured the third pair previous to contraction ; slender, very tapering, and exceedingly attenuated toward the apex ; suckers fairly large, closely placed, and in regular zigzag alternation from the base, contracting with a quadrangular outline.
Body granulated posteriorly, and to a less extent in the region of the neck.
Color milky, closely blotched or speckled with ochre, giving a yellowish appearance, and sprinkled with brown.
Length of specimen about nine or ten inches.
The only form with which I can closely compare this species is the Octopus Bermudensis of Hoyle (Challenger Reports, Zoology, XVI, p. 94, PI.
II, fig.
5), which is described from a single young specimen, measuring, including the arms, not more than two and a-half or three inches.
It differs from this form in the extremely tapering and attenuated arms, their relative lengths (1.
3.
2.
4 instead 1.
2.
3.
4), and in the disposition of the acetabula, which are in zigzag alternation from first almost to last ; the body is also in part granulated, and the siphon, instead of being attached for nearly its full length, is largely free.
I should have hesitated perhaps in describing this as a new species, distinct from 0.
Bermudensis, and preferred supposing that the characters indicated by Hoyle were not very clearly marked, or that they possibly represented only the immature form, but Hoyle distinctly states that while his specimen is probably immature, the characters are so well marked as to safely permit of their recognition as typical of a new species {op.
cit., p. 95).
GASTEROPODA.
Aplysia aequorea, n. sp.
(PI.
16, figs, 2, 2:i, 2b).
Body broadly oval, w^ith a moderately elongated neck ; tentacles cylindrical, slit at the extremity; buccal lobes broad, infolded; mouth between fairly developed lips ; aperture to opercular cavity on a slightly raised papilla.
Color drab or greenish ; exterior'surface with thin black annulations and irregular markings, which are few and scattered ; the inside of the mantle-lobes, as well as the cover to the opercular cavity, almost free of blotches.
Shell narrowly-elongate, somewhat oblique, and calcareously lined ; longitudinally radiated, and transversely finely striated.
Length of animal about four and a-half inches.
A single specimen, found in shallow water on the south side of Castle Harbor, opposite Tucker's Town.
The nearest ally of this sjjecies is probably the Aplysia ocellata of D'Orbigny, from the Canary Islands, or the common A. dactylomela, from the eastern Atlantic, of which the former is by some authors considered to be only a local variety (Rochebrune, Nouvelles Archives du Museum, 1881, p. 264).
From both of these forms, apart from other characters, it differs in the absence of the heavy opellation, and from A. dactylomela in lacking the purple lining on the mantle margins.
From A. ocellata, again, it is clearly marked off by the non-maculated surfiice of the interior of the mantle lobes and of the opercular covering.
The shell in the Bermudian form is comparatively narrower than in any other large species of Aplysia.
with which I am acquainted, and wholly different in outline from that of either of the two species above referred to.
I have fully satisfied myself on this point through an examination not only of the figures furnished by Rang and D'Orbigny, but of actual specimens.
Dobson, in a communication made before the Linna3an Society of London (Journ.
Linn.
Soc, Zoology, xv, p. 159, et seq., 1881), iden' tifies a specimen of Aplysia from the Bermudas with the A. dactylomela, and describes the color as being " a rich drab, marked all over with circles and streaks of velvet black, the latter most abundant on the mantle covering the shell and on the lateral swimming lobes.
The shell agrees in all respects with that of A. dactyloviela as figured by Rang, and the only difference observable is that the mai'gins of the swimming lobes are not tinged with violet.
This might be accounted for by supposing that such a fugitive color had disappeared in the alcohol, but the captor does not remember to have seen it in the living animal."
This may be the true A. dactylomela or A. ocellata, but it is, doubtless, distinct from the species above de" scribed.
I am confirmed in this supposition by the examination of a specimen recently collected by Prof Dolley in the Bahamas, and which has been placed in my hands through the kindness of Prof Leidy.
This Bahaman form has the massive ocellation and blotching distinctive of A. ocellata or A. dactylomela,* and further agrees Avith these two species (or varieties) in the form of the shell.
The stellate opening to the opercular cavity appears to be destitute of a papilla.
This is the form, probably, that Mr. Dobson received through Surgeon R. Vacy Ash.
Deshayes described some years ago an Aplysia, ocellated and of a yellowish color, fx-om Guadeloupe (Jour)ial de Conchyliologie, 2d.
ser., ii, p. 140) under the name oi' Aplysia Schrammii, but the species is SO imperfectly characterized that it is almost impossible to determine its exact relationships.
Chiomodoris zebra, n. sp.
(PI.
16, figs.
3, .3a.)
Animal of the form typical of the gemis ; head portion considerably extended and expanded in motion ; caudal portion moderately elongated ; base flattened ; mantle beaded immediately over the tail.
Color bright blue above, variously lined and streaked with light yellow ; on the dorsal surface the yellow markings are disposed in longitudinal wavy or nearly straight lines, one or more specially prominent lines along the dorso-lateral border.
Sides of animal irregularly reticulated or angulated with yellow markings ; under surface pale blue, bordered with faint yellow.
Rhiuophores deep indigo or black, the rhinophoral aperture bordered with yellow ; gills 12 or 13, black, bordered with yellow, and carrying blue cilia ; under surface of head blue, Avith yellow spots.
Length, when expanded, three and a-half inches.
Three specimens, dredged in about ten fathoms on the north side of Harrington Sound.
I dissected one of these and found that the stomach is lodged entirely within the mass of the liver.
The alimentary canal is sharply deflected forward (dorsally) beyond the buccal or oesophageal tracts, and is caught up in a nerve ring proceeding from the supra-oesophageal ganglia.
This species appears to be third or fourth of the genus found in the western Atlantic.
It differs clearly from the C. picturata of Morch ( C. Morchii, Bergh, 3Ius.
Godef., part xiv) and C. gonafophora of Bergh, two West Indian species.
In the scheme of coloring the species appears to be nearest to Doris pulcherrwia of Cantraine {Malacologie Mediterraneenne, p. 57, PI.
3, fig.
6, = D. Villafranca f of Risso), from which, however, it differs in a number of details, such as the number of gills, etc.
Onchidium (Onchidiella) trans-Atlanticum, n. sp.
(PI.
16, figs.
4, 4a.)
Body convex, smoke color or dark olive ; lighter, dirty or greyish green on the under surface ; pedal disk considerably more than onethird the width of base, yellowish green ; mouth margin papillose, bunchy ; under surface obscurely or obsoletely tuberculose ; dorsal surface closely verrucose, with finer granules interspersed between the warts.
Anal aperture immediately beyond the extremity of foot, inframarginal to a raised border; respiratory orifice between the anal pore and the apex of l)ody.
Length about three-quarters of an inch.
About a dozen specimens, found in a rock hollow on the north shore just beyond Wistowe, near Flatts Village, at an elevation of about two feet above the water.
This is, as far as I am aware, the only species of Onchidium that has thus far been recorded from the western Atlantic.
Its occurrence is, therefore, of considerable interest as bearing upon the subject of geographical distribution.
Nearly all the species of the genus are confined to the Eurafrican and Indo-Pacific waters, although one species is known from Arctic America, one from the Californian coast, and one from the west coast of South America (Bergh, in Semper's Reisen im Archipel d. Philipjiinen, Land Mollusks, VI).
The Bermudian species appear to be most nearly related to 0.
Carpenteri, from the Californian coast, but differs from it in color.
The positions of the anal and respiratory apertures differ from what is indicated by Stearns (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila., 1878) to exist in the west American form, although agreeing with the determinations made by Bergh for manifestly the same species.
1888.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
329 November 6.
The President, Dr. Jos.
Leidy, in the chair.
Forty-nine persons present.
November 13.
Mr. Charles Morri§ in the chair. '
Thirty-six persons present.
A paper entitled "Contributions to the Life History of Plants, No.
III."
By Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication.
November 20.
Rev.
Henry C. ]\IcCook D. D., Vice-President, in the chair.
Twenty-four persons })resent.
The President was directed to convey to Mrs Clara Jessup Bloomfield Moore the thanks of the Academy for her gift of Five Thousand Dollars as an addition to the fund endowed by her father, the late Augustus E. Jessup.
November 27.
The President Dr. Jos.
Leidy, in the chair.
Thirty-four persons present.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger read his biographical notice of the late Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. prepared at the request of the Academy.
RemarlcH on the fauna of Beach Haven, iV.
J.
— Prof. Leidy stated that he had spent the last two summers at Beach Haven, on which he made the following remarks : The place, a summer resort, is situated on the island of Long Branch, a sand bar but a few feet above the ocean level, 22 miles long and little more than half a mile wide, off the New Jersey coast, from which it is separated by Little Egg Harbor and Barnegat Bays.
The island consists of the ocean beach, flanked by long low sand hills and meadows extending to the bays.
It is treeless, but produces frequent patches of wax-myrtle, Myrka cerifera.
While the variety of marine animal life in the vicinity is comparatively small, a few forms adapted to the special localities are abundant.
The ocean beach consisting mainly of fine silicious sand without pebbles, between tides, swarms with the mole crab, Hippa talpoidea, and the little mollusk, Donax Jossor.
Above tides, the beach oft-times is lively with sand-fleas, among which are conspicuous the Talorchestia macrophfhalma, and less commonly the T. lonr/icomis.
Still higher extending to the sand-hills, the sandcrab, Ocypoda areuarla, is frequent.
The mud of the bays and sounds swarms with the scavenger snail, Ilyanassa obsoleta, while the meadows abound -with the marsh snail, Melavipus bidentatus.
The borders of the meadows are thickly planted with the horsemussel, Modiola pllcatula, or are honey-combed by the tidier crab, Gelasimus pulgihitor.
The bays supply the market with abundance of the oyster, which is extensively cultivated for the ])urpose.
The clam, Venus mercen.aria, also occurs in the greatest abundance, and is constantly gathered for the market.
The squirt-clam, 3{ya arenaria, is likewise sui)plied from mud flats of the bays.
The edible crab, Callinedes hastntus, often occurs in the bays in great numbers.
The previous summer, the bottom appeared to swarm with them, but the last summer they were less numerous, in consequence, as the fishermen report, of great numbers having been destro3'ed by the severe cold of last winter.
In a visit to Beach Haven, in February, I observed many recently dead crabs thrown up on the ocean beach, and feasted on by multitudes of the isopod crustacean, Cirolana conchariim.
The previous summer also, the lady-crab, PMyonichus oeellatus, was frequent on the ocean beach near low tide, but during last summer was almost absent.
It probably, also suffered from the cold of last winter, for in February, at Athvntic City, I found a number recently dead, and likewise feasted on by the Cirolana.
In the bays the spider crab, Lihinia canaliculafa, the shrimp, Palaemoneies vulgaris, and the hermit crab, Pagurus longicarpus, are in abundance, and the P. pollicaris is not infrequent.
The shrimp is infested to a wonderful degi'ee witii a parasitic crustacean Bopyrus palaemoiidicola.
The horse-shoe crab, Limulus polyphemus also occasionally occurs on the ocean beach.
The sand of Beach Haven is remarkably sonorous ; when scraped in walking, it emits a sound like that produced by sliding a rubber shoe on the pavement.
The condition of the ocean beach varies with the direction of the winds and violence of the waves.
Mostly, it is remarkably uniform and free from organic debris, and is composed of fine, white quartz sand without {)ebbles, and with streaks and ])atches of black sand, W'hich from its greater specific gravity is incessantly sifted from the white sand by the winds and waves.
On one occasion, during the prevalence for several days, of a strong north-east wind, the beach above high tide was covered with a broad stratum of black sand from a fourth to an inch thick, over whicli the white sand was blown like columns of smoke and accumulated at the base of the sand hills where it looked by contrast likcsnow drifts.
The organic debris cast ashore mostly consists of materials carried out from the bays, commonly, masses of eel-grass, Zostera marina, and bunches of bladder-wrack, Fucus vesiciilosus ; the latter often attached to a horse mussel, on which the plant grew.
Frequently attached to the plants are various animals, especialh^ Bugida turrita, Obelia covimissuralis, Perophora viridis, Lepas fascicular is, etc.
Occasionally there ai'e thrown ashore a live beach-clam, Mactra solidissima, a dead shell of the same with attached branches of Sertu/aria argentea, the collar-like sand egg-cases of Natica and the chaplet ones of Fulgur.
In the experience of two summers medusae were rarely wafted ashore, and these were in fragments and pertained to Cyanea arctica and apparently Aurelia flavidula.
Goose barnacles, iyepws /ascKU(/aris occasionally are not infrequent; and more rarely L. anatifera, attached to fragments of timber, is thrown on the sands.
High up on the beach, at the base of the sand-hills and often extending iuto the valleys between them are multitudes of bleaching shells, the remains of occasional severe storms.
Most of the shells are those of the beach clam, Mactra solidissima, which, everywhere on the open coast of New Jersey, appears to be the most common lamellibranch, except the little Donax fossor.
The younger shells of the Mactra are often observed along shore, with a circular hole through the umbo, made by Natica.
Some years since, at Atlantic City, I observed a number of beach clams, in the sand between tides, which were in possession of Natica heros in the act of boring the shell.
Among the occasional shells on the beach, fragments of large ones of Pholas costata are not infrequent, and yet an experienced clam catcher, who is familiar with the ordinary animals of the locality informed me that he had never found a living one.
My friend Joseph Willcox and I made several attempts at dredging in Little Egg Harbor, but with very little result of interest.
Near the mouth of the bay, Ave drew u}) great quantities of Jlytilus edulis, less than half grown, accom2:)anied by many star-fishes, Asterias arenicola.
In some positions we took numerous dead shells of the oyster and clam, Venus mercenaria, preyed upon by the sulphur colored boring sponge, Cliona sidphurea.
This, after drilling and tunneling the shells in all directions, continues to gi'ow into masses from the size of one's fist to that of the head, in which condition it is known to the clam-catchers as the " bay pumpkin."
The skeleton of this sponge is constructed of calcareous pin-like spicules.
It also attacks and preys on the shell of the living oyster, but appears not to do so on the living clam.
The sedentary habit of the former, no doubt, facilitates its attacks.
The shells of the oyster and clam, Venus, bored in a sieve-like manner, and freed fi-om the sponge, are frequently thrown on the ocean beach, and with them rarely the shell of a Mactra bored in the same manner, but I could not ascertain whether the Cliona lived on the shore of the open ocean.
Another sponge frequently observed growing on living oysters and on dead shells of the same and of the clam, Venus, is called by the catchers the " red beard, " Microciona prolifera.
It is bright 332 [1888. vermilion color when alive, but brown when dead, and masses of it in the latter condition are often found on the ocean beach.
It is a silicious sponge and does not prey on the shells of mollusks.
From an oyster bed we took up some young oysters, an inch to two inches long, with the shell perforated by the *' drill," Urosalpinx cinerea.
The perforation, made in the vicinity of the adductor muscle, about admits an ordinary bristle.
An oyster catcher, James R. Gale informed us that the " drill " was introduced into the locality, with spat brought from the coast of Virginia.
With the Urosalpinx we took another snail, Anachis similis, which Mr. Gale assured us was more destructive, as a borer, to young oysters than the former.
Another snail which we took, the Eupleura caudata, Mr. Gale says has the same habit.
Attached to oysters were also found a great profusion of the polyzoon Vesicularia dicJiotoma.
Of the mollusca of the vicinity of Beach Haven I observed the following : Gasterpoda.
Ilijanassa obsoleta.
Melampus bidentatus.
Fulgur carica.
Fulgur canaliculata.
Natica heros.
Natica duplicata.
Urosalpinx cinerea.
Eupleura caudata.
Anachis similis.
Bittium nigrum.
Crep idula Jorn icata.
Grepidula conve.va.
Crepidula plana.
Exceedingly abundant.
Exceedingly abundant.
Lamellibranchiata.
Mactru: solidissima.
Donax fossor.
Venus mercenaria.
Mya arenaria.
Solen americanus.
Tagellus gibbus.
Ceronia deaurata.
Cochlodesma, carum.
Thracia leana.
Cyclocardia borealis.
Astarte nndata.
Astarte castanea.
Petricola pholadiformis.
Pholas truncata.
Phohis eostata.
Cyclas dentata.
Exceedingly abundant.
Exceedingly abundant.
Exceedingly abundant.
Abundant.
Common.
One dead specimen.
One dead specimen.
One dead specimen.
Scapharca transversa.
Area pexata.
Common.
Area transversa.
Mytilus edulis.
Abundant.
Modiola plicatula.
Exceedingly abundant.
Pecten irradians.
Common.
Ano7nia glabra.
Abundant.
Ostrea virginiana.
Exceedingly abundant.
Teredo navalis.
Of Crustacea the following were observed : Callineefes hastatus.
Platyoniehus ocellatus.
Cancer irroratus.
Ocypoda arenaria.
Gelashnus pugnax.
Gelasinms pugilator.
LihUiia canaliculata.
Panop)eus Sayi.
Pinnotheres ostreum.
Eupagurus poUicaris.
Eupagurus longicarpus.
Hijjpa talpoldea.
Gebia affinis.
Palaemonetes vulgaris.
Orchestia jyahtstris.
Or chest la agilis.
Talorehestia longirostris.
Talorchestia, maerophthalma.
Gaw.marus ornatus.
Unciola irrorata.
Caprella geometrica.
Erichsonia attemiata.
Cirolana concharum.
Bopyrus palaemoneticola.
Livoniea ovalis.
Lepas Jaseicularis.
Lepas anatifera.
Lirmdus pohjphemus.
The Turret Spider on Coffin's Beach.
— Dr. Henry C. McCook remarked that he had spent July and August, 1888, at Annisquam, Mass., a port of Cape Ann at the mouth of the Squam river where it enters into Ipswich Bay.
The eastern shore of the bay opposite Annisquam consists in part of a stretch of sand hills, known as Coffin's beach.
The sand is of a beautiful white color and is massed at places in elevations of considerable height, constituting what is known as the " sand hill, " or '' the dunes. "
The fragrant bay bush grows in clumps along the edges and summits of these irregular sand elevations, and this is intermingled with patches of tough grass.
At his first visit to this beach he discovered several burrows of Lycosa arenicola Scudder,^ popularly kuown as the Turret spider.
Subsequently he explored the field aud found numbers of these Lycosids domiciled in the sand and spread very generally over the dunes.
They came down very close to the high water mark.
Thirteen burrows were found quite near together, seven in a circle of six feet in diameter.
Most of these burrows were about dialf an inch in diameter.
Two were located within twelve inches, and several others within two feet of the edge of the sandy ridge which marks the point of highest tide.
The tubes vary in size and depth.
Some are scarcely larger than a quill, some, indeed, not much larger than a good big darning needle.
These were occupied by young spiders.
The adult spiders occupy burrows in the sand about twelve inches or less in depth ; the younglings make holes four inches deep or less.
In digging for spiders Dr McCook began to remove the sand ten inches or more from the opening of the burrow.
Thus the dry sand immediately surrounding dropped away into the excavation, leaving the silken tube which lined the burrow adhering to the arrass stalk or twig which he had inserted within it.
The buri-ows proved to be silk-lined for j' space of from four to seven inches, the lining however, being of a very thin texture, not like the tough silken tube with which the Trap-door spider lines her nest, oiwhich the Purseweb spider erects along the trunks of trees.
Below that point the burrow enters into the sand unlined.
The top of the sand is quite dry, but the bottom part, wherein the lower portions of the burrows are made, was invariably found to be damp, and of course closely packed, so that it was not very liable to fall into the excavation.
A little circular ridge of sand ordinarily surrounds the opening of the burrow, but he saw in no instance anything like the tower of straws and sticks which this spider builds in the meadows and fields of New Jersey, Pennsylvania and other points where it has been observed.
The drifting of the sand before the wind seemed to have little or no effect upon the burrows which were always found quite open aud free around the mouth.
Heavy rains which fell during the season had no apj)reciable effect upon the burrows or their inmates although the tubes must often have been filled with water.
The spiders captui-ed were all of a light hue as compared with the same specimens found in our vicinity.
Specimens almost identical • with these were found by Dr. Joseph Leidy in the sand at Beach Haven, New Jersey ; and this pale coloring appears in all other littoral .specimens examined.
The influence of environment, manifest in the lighter coloring of this spider, was also seen in a grasshopper or locust which is quite abundant on Coffin's beach.
It is almost as white as ' Psyche, vol.
11, p. 2, 1877.
^ Emerton ("New England Spiders of the Family Lycosidn;" Trans.
Conn. Acad.
vol.
vi, 1885) describes liie species as Lycosa nidifex Marx, for what reason he does not state.
Scudder made the spider known in 1877; I^r.
Marx gave his description in the " American Naturalist" May 1881.
The priority is undoubtedly with Scudder's name.
the sand over which it was found hopping.
These grasshoppers probably furnish food for the S2)iders, but the only remains of animal food found within the burrows were those of a large brownish beetle, several specimens of which were picked up on the beach.
Among the other denizens of the beach are ants of a small species whose nests are well nigh numberless.
They are made in the sand, but it seemed that the little creatures must have considerable difficulty in preserving their galleries and rooms from continual destruction by the caving in of the incoherent particles.
However, they do manage it, although in digging to find the character of their galleries the speaker could not so manipulate the sand as to prevent it from tumbling into the formicaries and thus hindering him from studying of the interior.
He did not know what the ants feed upon, although he found some of them engaged at the carcass of one of the brown beetles above alluded to, and no doubt the flotsam of the sea thrown upon the beach affords them abundant material for food.
He made a number of visits to these sand dunes both by day and night, prolonging his stay to a late hour in the evening in order to discover .something of the outdoor habits of the colony of Turret spiders, but succeeded in learning very little that is new.
A lady artist who with some companions was sketching upon the beach, (for Annisquam is a favorite field for painters,) informed Dr. McCook that about dusk a large spider was seen moving over the sand towards the water.
Supposing this to be one of the above colony the question at once arose, do they come down from the dunes to the wide flat stretch of beach, that is covered at flood and that is uncovered at ebbtide, in order to prey upon the sea life that may be left at the retiring of the waters?
Two afternoons and nights were spent from five until nine and ten P. M.endeavoring to solve this problem, but without any results.
He then tried another method.
Visiting the beach in day-time he captured a couple of mature spiders ; placed them upon a smooth stretch of clean sand and permitted them, and when necessary compelled them by prodding, to move over the ft B surface.
They left upon the sand a , ' *> peculiar track which is here roughly I I y« f represented by two sections taken •*• / ^» from different parts of the trail.
*• •• , Having made a careful sketch of t these foot prints he returned early I next morning and made a careful examination of the beach for a cou' • * siderable distance along the shore.
Many tracks of various kinds of creatures, including such insects as beetles and grasshoppers, and also of some small vertebrate animals, were found.
But by far the greatest number were tracks which corresponded precisely with those made on the previous day by the captured Arenicolas.
Multitudes of these were seen upon the sand covering the surface and slopes of the hills and extending to the very border •r .i.
y of the surf line.
They traversed the ground which had been covered by the tide, but which for a considerable distance is there exposed at the ebb.
These foot-prints could be traced everywhere as issuing from and returning to the burrows which he had marked by flagging the grass stalks in their neighborhood.
It was thus demonstrated, in this indirect way, that the narrative of his artist friend was correct, and that the Turret spiders do issue from their burrows during the night and perhaps at other periods and traverse the sandy flats, no doubt in search of prey.
One half grown spider was captured while wandering on the flat.
These 'spider tracks were in themselves an interesting study, and Dr. McCook expressed regret that he did not sketch a longer consecutive series.
The motion of the feet was so rapid that he could not determine the order in which they were placed down, nor identify the mark made by any particular foot.
The scratch in the figures he thought might have been made by .the spinnerets at the apex of the abdomen trailing in the sand.
Dr. Charles S. Dolley had observed similar tracks upon the sandy beach of Lake Ontario, near Rochester, which were made by the same spiders that dwell in that vicinity.
He had found the spiders sheltered under the drift on the very edge of the shore whither they had doubtless gone in pursuit of prey or to drink.
Messrs Auguste Salle of Paris, Louis Bedel of Paris and Dr. David Sharp of Wilmington, England were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be printed : —
