ON THE GENERIC NAME OF THE TUNNY.
BY DAVID STARR JORDAN.
In the first edition of the Regne Animal 1817 pp.
313 314 the generic names Thynnus and Orcynus were proposed for the Tunnies.
The former name was given to the shortfinned tunnies type Scomber thynnus L. and the latter to the species with long ribbonshaped pectorals type Scomber germo JsiC.Scomber alatunga altIonga Gmelin.
It has been generally agreed that these two groups are generically identical.
Many European writers have continued to use the name Thynnus for both although this name was much earlier preempted by Fabricius for a genus of Insects The name Orcynus is however also preoccupied having been proposed by Rafinesque in 1815 in his worthless Analyse de la Nature as a substitute for Scombroldes Lacepde.
According to current rules of nomenclature the group of Tunnies is left without a tenable generic name.
I therefore propose the name Albacora for the group of which Scomber thynnus is the type this species being with others widely known as Albacore.
The subgenus or genus distinguished by the elongate pectorals may be called Germo its types being Sc.
alalonga Gmelin.
ON THE FOEMATION OF ROCKSALT BEDS AND MOTHER.
LIQUOR SALTS.
BY DR. CARL OCHSENIUS.
As is well known that oceanwater from which all primitive rocksalt masses have been formed contains on the average 82  fixed L e. saline constituents of which 2  is sodium chloride the remainder consisting of magnesium compounds calcium sulphate potassium chloride sodium bromide and small quantities of boron iodine and lithium salts as well as traces of every other element of which indeed there exists one or the other compound soluble in water and much more so in saltwater.
The open sea precipitates no salt but in bays partially cut off from it a deposition can take place under certain circumstances in such a way that gypsum forms the base and anhydrite the uppermost layer of the salt deposit this is plainly seen in every large rocksalt bed.
In considering the mode of formation of such deposits we are' met on all sides by three questions which hitherto have remained somewhat inexplicable  1st the absence of fossils in the salt whilst the neighbouring rocks often contain them well preserved and in abundance 2nd the small quantities of easily soluble magnesium and potassium salts though they were contained in the seawater and .3rd the replacement of these latter by one of the most insoluble constituents viz.
sulphate of lime in the form of a cap of anhydrite the socalled Anhydrithut.
These facts can however be explained if we take a hydrographical element viz.
the bar into account in the process of formation.
When a nearly horizontally running bar cuts off a bay from the sea so that only as much seawater runs in over it as is compensated by evaporation from the surface of the lagoon and the so partially separated portion receives no large additions of fresh   i. e. rain or running water a deposition of salt takes place in the Avay to be described.
In such a bay the following phenomena may be observed   The seawater running in evaporates and by the amount of salt it adds the solid constituents of the bay are continually increased.
The upper sheets of water warmed by the sun sink as they get specifically heavier from the larger amount of salt and in the course of time a vertical circulation setting in the whole aqueous contents become enriched in saline matter and rise in temperature. The greater part of the deliquescent magnesium salts however remains in the upper layers while chloride of sodium is found preponderating below.
As the saltness increases organisms possessing free locomotive power are compelled to seek a new habitat and make their escape Into the open sea against the currents and waves sweeping over the bar  those without free movement die off and generally leave only indistinct remains in the strata which are nest deposited.
The formation of the latter commences with the precipitation of oxide of iron and carbonate of lime as soon as the concentration has proceeded so far as to double the amount of saline matter in the lagoon and then ceases until the solution contains five times as much salts when a second layer of carbonate of lime settles this being brought iibout by a double decomposition between the soda and gypsum held in solution in producing calcium carbonate and sodium sulphate.
At the same time gypsum begins to deposit and constitutes the basis proper.
As soon as the saline solution has increased its weight of salts eleven times its specific gravity reaches r22 and the precipitation of chloride of sodium begins in the form of the well know foliated crystalline masses accompanied by some calcium sulphate etc. added from the seawater running in.
Though generally speaking the sediments follow in reverse order of their solubilities as Usiglio  has shown in his exhaustive experiments it often happens that small quantities of easily soluble salts are mechanically included in the others thus magnesium sulphate is frequently found contaminating rocksalt and especially there where clayey mud washed in and was deposited at the same time.
Then again some substances only scantily represented in seawater remain longer in solution than we should be led to expect from labo By this interchange of heat downwards the constant temperature of 14C.
to a depth of 4000 meters in the Mediterranean can be accounted for the high barrier at the Straits of Gibraltar cutting this sea off from the Atlantic  westwards of the entrance to the Mediterranean on the other hand we find extending to the same depth an icy temperature of 0 to 40.
Accordingly deep sea currents rich in chloride of sodium flow from the Mediterranean into the Atlantic as well as the Black Sea and are compensated by return surface currents.
As a result of this circulation the surface water of the Mediterranean is rich in magnesium salts whilst the Black Sea analogous to the Baltic does not contain ocean water diluted vith freshwater as one might at first be led to expect from the great influx of riverwater but shows a preponderating amount of sodium chloride.
2 Ann.
Chim.
et Thys.
27 172. ratory experiments.
This is especially the case with borates maguesium borate in particular as well as with silica and titanic acid.
As the depositing process continues the greater part of the deliquescent salts remains dissolved in the upper layers and constitutes the motherliquors ifztierZaw'eji which contain along Avith sodium chloride the potassium and magnesium compounds etc.
We have then in the motherliquors above the rocksalt approximately arranged in order of solubility  sulphateof magnesium chloride of potassium chloride of magnesium borates bromides lithium salts an iodine compound probably magnesium iodide and calcium chloride.
In the course of the continued growth of the rocksalt beds and likewise of the motherliquors the latter attain the level of the bar and commence flowing out seawards directly over it as soon as their specific gravity can overcome the current of the inflowing seawater.
After this stage is reached ordinary seawater can only have access through the upper portion of the barmouth the lower part being occupied by the outgoing motherliquors.
At this point the last.stage of the process begins viz. the deposition of the uppermost bed of sulphate of calcium in the form of the Anhydrithut Portions of the concentrated motherliquors get mixed with surfacewater washed in and this from the increased amount of the hygroscopic chlorides of magnesium and calcium lessens the superficial evaporation of the bay and hence the influx of sea water diminishes gradually.
The sulphate of lime in the seawater that has flown in is now precipitated the other salts mixing with the motherliquors and flowing out with them over the bar.
As the gypsum falls through the concentrated motherliquors its water of combination gets abstracted and a seam of anhydrite is by degrees deposited.
Sometimes a compound is formed of gypsum with the sulphates of magnesium and potassium the latter by double decomposition of sulphate of magnesium and chloride of potassium viz. polyhalite a mineral occurring in the upper strata of many salt deposits.
The bay meanwhile assumes the character of a bitterlake and influences the surrounding shores the organisms inhabiting the littoral waters dying oflT and the neighboring rock disintegrating to dust which is blown into the lake forming the material for the saltclay  this offers a good explanation for the increased thickness of saltclay seams often observed in the upper layers of salt deposits.
A regular succession of these briefly described phenomena will rarely be found in nature.
Every alteration in height of the bar resulting from storms and other disturbances naturally affects the precipitations about to take place by accelerating or retarding them or even redissolviug some of the layers already in situ.
In some cases where the Anhydrithut was never formed the bar not having retained its original height long enough the saltclay plays the part of protecting covering  however even under these circumstances the resulting series of deposits are so characterised as to point clearly to their mode of origin.
Salt beds deposited from aqueous solutions under the abovenamed conditions are found in all geological epochs as far back as the Archaean rocks  this is shown by the superposition of Silurian strata to the salt in Salt Range in India.
The existence of primitive salt beds points conclusively to the presence of shores i. e. terra firman at the time of formation.
At the present day the first of the above stated agents is found in operation in several localities on the East coast of the Caspian especially in the great bay of Adschi Darja whose narrow mouth Karaboghaz  black abyss  is partially cut off from the Caspian by a bar.
The bay is one of the saltiest of this inland sea and receives no supplies of water at all from the land only its evaporation being balanced by a corresponding influx of seawater.
Under these circumstances no animal can live in the Adschi Darja Avaters and the bottom is covered with a layer of salt of unknown thickness  in a specimen of this dej5osit dredged up by Abich the latter found gypsum intermixed with rocksalt.
C. Schmidt in 1876 found no trace of potassium in the salt bed of Karaboghaz.
On the other hand the Avater contained in 100 parts   833 sodium chloride I'OO potassium chloride 1294 magnesium chloride 02 magnesium bromide 6'19 magnesium sulphate etc. in all 2850 per cent of salts  this composition is nearly identical with that found by Usiglio in motherliquors when they give off no more water at the ordinary temperature.
Similar conditions have been noticed at TjukKaragan MertwyKultuk and Karassee Krasnorvodosk etc.
The Caspian then gives up its chloride of sodium to the saltpans on its east coast and in return receives only motherliquors accounting for the character of the water in the principal basin which contains less salt than the ocean but much more magne J. Roth Chem.
Geol.
I 467. sium compounds and hence causes a degeneration in the marine fauna and flora on the East coast.
The Oxus Amu Darja which two centuries ago poured its waters into Adschi Darja prevented a deposition of salt there hut since sandstorms have diverted this stream into the Aral the change of the Caspian into a bitterlake has been accelerated by the formation of sandbars along the Eastcoast bays which are converted into saltpans.
The above description of the processes now being carried out on the East coast of the Caspian will suffice to illustrate the origin of all rocksalt deposits from the Silurian down to the present era and further the occurrence in each of gypsum as basis and the Anhydritecap with saltclay as cover.
Fossils are hardly ever present and motherliquor salts rarely in large amounts.
To go back to the time when the first signs of the anhydritecap make their apjjearance we find that an increase in altitude of the bar sufficient to cut off the influx of seawater causes the motherliquors to stagnate and under favorable conditions of temperature to solidify.
Such a process has taken place in the EgelnStassfurt basin and in some other localities of the old NorthGerman Permian saltsea.
The potassium and magnesium salts together with boron and bromine compounds have crystallized out and been exceptionally well protected against resolution by a clay seam imjermeable to water.
There are to be seen lying on a rocksalt bed many hundred yards thick consecutive zones of carnallite kieserite and polyhalite  the latter generally encloses the sulphate of lime which was still contained in the waters of the bay at the time of the closing in' by the bar magnesium sulphate occurs especially in the second and in the zone of carnallite are found the chlorides of magnesium and potassium borates and magnesium calcium bromide bromcarnallite.
Calcium chloride is also met with in certain minerals such as tachhydrite etc. and in some cases undergoes in presence of magnesium sulphate a double decomposition calcium sulphate and magnesium chloride being formed.
The total quantity of chloride of magnesium occurring in the Stassfurt beds does not correspond to the normal amount  portions of this substance must have made their exit over the bar with the lithium and iodine salts or have been absorbed by the upper beds N. B. lithium is found in the saltclays above but not iodine or were carried away in solution later on.
Hence the succession of motherliquor salts in Stassfurt is not quite complete  on the other 13 hand the saltpetre fields of Tai'apaca and Ataeania in Chile now resting on lower levels to those of the original saltpans afford an example of an entire series of beds.
In the reopening of the bar in the Stassfurt basin the process of salt deposition came again into operation above the stratum of clay protecting the motherliquor or Abraumsolts  this is proved by the occurrence of an upper salt bed with anhydritecap etc.
The lowest division of the whole series there though the name does not correspond very well is known as the Anliydrltregion or zone of anhydrite on account of thin jarallel bands of sulphate of lime transversing it at regular intervals  they are called annual rings Fahresringe but cannot be explained by the direct influence of the seasons e. g. in winter because they are not found in other salt deposits which have been formed under similar climatic conditions.
It is more probable that a process similar to that in the dejosition of the second lot of calcium carbonate of Usiglio has taken place in their formation.
Some agent or other related to that which caused the conversion of gypsum and soda into carbonate of lime and sulphate of soda must also have been at work here.
Most likely the decomposition took place at first gradually whereas towards the end it was rapid from which can be explained the  rings  being ramified below and level above.
Local peculiarities may also have been the cause for instance periodic supplies of water coming from the land but it was certainly not of a purely climatic nature.
This might be a probable explanation for the exceptional case of Stassfurt deposits where the motherliquors were dried uj above the salt beds proper and not afterwards removed by external agencies.
As the process of filling up of a saltpan with gyjsum rocksalt anhydrite and saltclay has proceeded so far that the anhydritecap reaches the height of the bar the latter deposit naturally retains cavities and irregularities in its surface occupied by fluid residues of motherliquors.
These residues must often have been pretty considerable and they represent a most important geological agency  for rocksalt formations can only occur on the seacoast and it is here that volcanic action has its sway so that we often find the neptunistic and volcanic forces cooperating.
Through displacement in the beds the residual motherliquors are set free and flow to lower levels where on reaching an impervious stratum they collect and form a saltlake  or if brought to the surface again appear as brine and mineral springs more or less removed from the original source.
During their flow or collection the sulphates often separate from the chlorides  borates once precipitated remain so and give rise to snffioni  carbonic acid decomposes saline solutions more or less but chloride of sodium is scarcely ever entirely absent and boron iodine bromine and lithium are represented by traces.
On account of this remarkable action of carbonic acid on motherliquor salts the minerals accompanying troua thermonatrite etc. must be principally sodium compounds chloride sulphate borate silicate etc.
the carbonates of calcium and magnesium being separated out as fairly insoluble precipitates.
The carbonates of the alkalis decompose silicates of lime in the rocks around forming carbonate of lime and silicates of sodium and potassium as intermediate products which easily undergo decomposition silica thereby being separated out in the hydrated state  allowed to remain in contact with animal detritus saltpetre is produced  magnesium chloride and sulphate convert limestone into dolomite and certain silicates to serpentine  the sulphates of magnesium and lime also are often decomposed by certain organisms giving rise to sulphurettedhydrogen and a separation of sulphur lastly magnesium chloride dissolves all metallic compounds and even gold hence motherliquors with or without the aid of water impregnated with carbonic acid must have played a great part in the deposition of most of our ores by dissolving out the metals contained in the different rocks around and concentrating the same in cavities of various kinds.
As the bituminous matter contained in brinesprings doubtless is a 25roduct of decomjosition of organic substances met by the motherliquors on their way so the origin of petroleum which is always intimately connected with salt districts can be accounted for by the sudden destructive action of an overflow of motherliquors over a rich marine fauna and flora the accompanying mud serving to shut off access of air from the cadaverous remains and the presence of some chloride of aluminum enabling the formation of all the representatives of the hydrocarbon series from the small particles of anthracite occurring in lodes to the masses of volatile hydrocarbons of the vast oil districts.
In short in most littoral districts of past and present oceans from the depths of our mines to the summits of the mountains which oceanwater has not reached but where motherliquor residues have been transported do we find tangible proofs of the remarkable effects of which motherliquors have been the primary cause.
188 1888.
DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF OCINEBRA.
BY JOHN FORD.
Ocinebra Michaeli Ford.
Shell fusiform rather slender turreted light gray with a narrow median brown band  whorls 5 convex shouldered above the upper ones carinate  sculptured with numerous rather coarse revolving lirations the interstices with riblets bearing crowded festooned lamellae of growth which are also prominent below the sutures longitudinally prominently plicate with about seven folds to each whorl aperture oval white within angular above anterior canal quite long open straight outer lip thickened within bearing six small tubercles columella nearly straight  with a whitish callus projecting slightly at beginning of canal.
Length of shell 16 diam.
8 mill.
Length of n perture 9 mill.
Hab. Cayucos San Luis Obispo Co. California.
Differs from 0. inteifossa Cpr. in having open canal.
0. subangulata Stearns is somewhat related but is much longer ess angulated aperture more rounded and .without the internal tubercles shown by 0.
Michaeli.
So far as can be learned this small but distinct species has been found only by Mr. Geo.
W. Michael Jr. after whom it is deservedly named  the gentleman being not only an efficient collector but a careful student of science also.
Alout forty specimens have been secured alive by him at the locality mentioned which is the only one known at present.
