OBSERVATIONS ON THE FEMALE GENERATIVE APPARATUS OF HYNA CROCUTA.
BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN M. D. The Hyaena as well known was regarded by many of the ancients as being a hermaphrodite.
Thus Aelian observes  if you see a male hysena one year the next year you will see a female if now truly a female afterwards a male for it partakes of both sexes Avhile according to Pliny''  the vulgar believe that the hytena is of both natures and are on alternate years male and female and bring forth without a male.
The same opinion appears also to prevail to a considerable extent even at the present day among the natives and settlers in South Africa.
Like many other pojDular opinions and superstitions the view of the sexes being united in the same individual in the hysena is based to a certain extent upon fact as in one species at least the Hycena crocuta or spotted hyaena the male and female individuals resemble each other so closely that naturalists as well as animal dealers and showmen find it impossible Avithout dissection to distinguish one sex from the other.
Such being the case it might naturally have been supposed that the attention of anatomists would long since have been called to the consideration of the generative apparatus in Hycena crocuta especially as in the other two species and Hyoeiia striata Hyctna hrxmnea the disposition of the generative apparatus is normal.
It is only however within recent years that it was shown by Prof. Watson of Manchester England that in the female of Hycena crocuta the uterus passes directly without an intervening vagina into the urethra to form a urogenital canal which perforating the clitoris offers a passagewaj not onl'' for the urine but also for the foetus.
Such a disposition would naturall suggest without dissection the idea of the animal being a hermaphrodite  especially as not only are the vulva and vagina entirely absent Plates IX and X but there are present in addition to the large and well developed clitoris two projections below the anus simulating a condition 1 Hyaenam si videas uno tuidem anno marem altera videbis foeminam si vero nunc foeminam postea marem utruisque enim sexas particeps est.
Claudii Aeliani De Animalium natura.
Ludguni 161 B Lib.
1 Cap.
xxv.
2 Hyrenis utraqua esse natura et altenus annis mares alteris foemias fieri parere sine mare vulgus credit.
C. Plinii Secundi Naturalis Historia.
Venetiis 1559 Lil3.
viii Cap.
xxx.
of the scrotum obtaining in many of the carnivora.
As my dissection of the female generative apparatus of Hycena crocufa that recently died at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden agrees in every respect with that of Prof Watson and as the description of the parts given by that anatomist is excellent my dwelling further upon the same in detail apart from confirmation would be superfluous.
I will limit myself therefore rather to the consideration of how such an extraordinary disposition of generative apparatus might be brought about and to pointing out its significance in the determination of the homologous parts of the male and female generative organs of the mammalia generally.
It is well known that at an extremely eai'ly period of intrauteriue life about six weeks for example in the case of the human embryo Plate XI fig.
2.
the sex is undistinguishable ovaries or testicles are undeveloped the MuUerian and Wolfiian ducts bladder and rectum terminate in a common receptacle or cloaca Avhile no external generative organs are observable.
As the development of the mammal advances however the rectum and bladder separate and open by distinct openings the anus and urethra the cloacal condition being retained through life only in Ornithorynchus and Echidna the Wolfiian ducts become the vasa deferentia the Mullerian ducts atrophying supposing the individual to become a male or the Wolffian ducts atrophying and the Nlullerian ducts become transformed into Fallopian tubes uterus and vagina supposing the individual to become a female the two bodies up to this moment indifferent functionally becoming testicles or ovaries respectively  the testicles usually in time descending into a scrotum the urethra passing through the penis.
It is well known that in the female of certain shrews moles and lemurs and as recently observed by the author in the South American hare.
Capromys pilorides Plate XI fig.
1.
the urethra passes through the clitoris as through the penis in the male of these animals.
The fact of the clitoris being traversed by the urethra in the of female Hycena crocuta is therefore not such an uncommon condition as at first sight it might appear and confirms the view held by morphologists of the clitoris being the homologue of the penis.
Indeed the clitoris only differs from the penis in being smaller and in the fact that the labia minora do not unite underneath the urethra in the middle line to form what would correspond 1 It need hardly be mentioned that the contracted kidney and dilated ureter the latter due to impacted calculi observable in my dissection are pathological conditions.
to the skin on the under surface of the penis.
It has already been mentioned that an early stage in the development of the mammalian embryo the rectum bladder Mullerian ducts the latter in the female becoming the vagina and uterus pass into the cloaca and that as development advances the rectum sepaiates from the cloaca opening by the anus.
With a still further advance in development the uterus separates from the urogenital canal and opens by a distinct canal the vagina the bladder opening through the urethra.
While such is the normal order of develoiDmeut of the female generative apparatus in the mammalia it may be readily conceived that should the develoiment be arrested at the stage in which the uterus and the bladder still pass together into a urogenital sinus and should the latter traverse the clitoris in the same manner as the urethra does in the case of Capromys etc. a disposition precisely similar to that found by Prof. Watson and the author in the female of Hyaena crocuta would result.
If the above view be admitted then the peculiar arrangement of the female generative apparatus in Hyoena eiociUa may be regarded as due to an arrest of development.
One of the most remarkable peculiarities of the female generative apparatus of Hycena crocuta to which we have hitherto only incidentally alluded is the entire absence of a vagina the uterus passing directly into the urogenital canal in which respect the animal differs from all other mammalia except perhaps the elephant.
In the latter animal in both the Indian and African species as observed by the author a long and capacious urogenital canal leads into the bladder on the one hand and on the other into a cavity which the author regarded either as corresponding to a vagina or to the neck of the uterus this cavity leading in turn into the body of the uterus.
Should the latter view be accepted that is if the cavity in question be regarded morphologically as uterine then the vagina would be absent in the elephant as it is without doubt in the hysena.
In conclusion it may be mentioned that the fact of the vagina being undoubtedly absent in Hyeena crocuta and probably also in the elephant settles definitely at least for these animals the question as to whether the utriculus or sinus pocularis of the male should be regarded as the homologue of the uterus or the vagina of the female since if the vagina be absent in the female hysena and elephant the utriculus of the male of these animals must necessarilv be homolocrous Avith the uterus of the female.
1 On the Placenta and female generative apparatus of the Elephant.
Toumal of Acad of Nat.
Sci.
of Philad. n. s. VIII p 413.
192 proceedings of the academy of 1888.
July 3.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Ten persons present.
Note on Mazapilite a new species.
 Prof. Geo.
A. Koenig announced the occurrence of this mineral at Zacatecas Mexico in the mineral district of Mazapil.
The crystals are well developed in all directions.
They are of orthorhombic symmetry exhibiting a flat prism in combination with a brachy dome and a pyramid.
The color is deep brown red nearly black but transparent at the edges.
The hardness is nearly 7 its streak greenish yellow.
The specific gravity 3567.
In closed tube a white crystalline sublimate is produced As  O  and water while the powder turns dark brown.
B.
B. fuses at 3 to a black globule.
On charcoal the odor of arsenic is observed.
With borax only iron reaction.
Easily soluble in in warm HCl.
A preliminary analysis proves the mineral to be a calcium ferric arsenite.
The structural formula must be made the subject of a moi'c thorough investigation which the speaker proposes to carry out in the fall.
Tliis mineral is the first representative of the class of pure arsenites in nature and is therefore of marked interest.
For the material the author is indebted to the indefatigable zeal of Dr. F. A. Foote who is now in Mexico.
The following was ordered to be printed   1888.
193 DESCRIPTIVE NOTES OF NEW AMERICAN SPECIES OF ORBWEAVING SPIDERS.
BY HENRY C. MCCOOK D. D. Epeira gemma n. sp.
1.
Fig.
1.
This is one of the largest orbweavers of the Pacific coast and is found from San Diego northward as far as Victoria British Columbia.
The species varies a good deal in size and markings but the largest sdult female a gravid specimen measures over 20 mm.
in length.
The abdomen is 155 mm.
long  the base of the abdomen is crowned with two large conical processes.
The markings upon the abdomen are as follows  The forepart which rises quite abruptly from the cephalothorax is of a blackish brown color interspersed at irregular periods with yellow spots.
Along the median line extends a narrow baud of yellow upon which are placed two angular or lance head markings the first of which is jlaced about the middle of the basal part and the secEpeira gemma female v 2. oifl near the crcst.
This baud continues more or less regularly along the dorsum to the apex.
About the middle of the dorsum is a shieldshaped figure with scolloped edges blackish brown in color for the most part though interrupted by yellow lines of a herringbone pattern A narrow yellow border encompasses the shield.
The color of the abdomen is yellow and this color extends to the posterior half of the abdominal processes the anterior half of the same being darkish brown.
Dark brown waving and interrupted lines extend along the sides and between these are small round spots which are distributed laterally along the sides with more or less regularity.
A brownish band extends along the ventral part of the abdomen from the spinnerets to the epigynum bordered on either side by a yellowish band and with two short parallel yellowish longitudinal lines drawn equidistant between these two.
The epigynum is comparatively small and between and slightly bent over the dark lateral lobes is a short flat flap  it is thickened on the edges and viewed from the front the tip is somewhat hooded.
See fig.
2.
A broad central patch marks the sternum and the tongue and mandibles are tipped with yellow.
The cephalothorax is about 5 mm.
long  is ratlier small as compared with the immense abdomen and is marked with two broad yellowish bands extending along the sides and broadening over the dorsum.
The head is a brownish color.
The legs are marked strongly with annuli.
Ep.
grmma.
Epigynum Their rcspcctivc lengths are as follows  1st lowerligure view from apex .
jr o 1 01 ooi upper figure side view.
pair 2o mm.
 id pair 2r2o mm.
 od pair 14'75 mm.
 4th pair 2125 mm.
The spider makes a large circular web of the usual character of the group of Angulata to which it belongs and rests in a nest of rolled leaves or dome shaped rubbish placed on the upper side of its snare.
The cocoon is a round flossy ball of a darkish yellow color about threefourths of an inch in diameter.
A number of cocoons sent to me by Mrs. C. K. Smith from San Diego California were found during the month of Ajiril to contain well developed young spiders.
These spiders are of a quite uniform light yellow color with a brown well marked shieldshaped figure upon the dorsum of the abdomen which is without the conical prominences that characterize the adult.
Several of these cocoons were hung in an arbor upon the 1st of May and the spiderlings immediately issued therefrom in great numbers following the usual habit of their kind to ascend for a considerable distance and then gather in small clumps or balls closely packed together.'
It is noticable that the spiders from the various cocoons mingled together without any hostility climbed together the various bridge lines which immediately issued from the spinnerets and snugged together in balled groups under the leaves as though they all belonged to one brood.
The month being cold and very rainy they remained thus clustered throughout the entire month and were not fully dispersed until the first week in June.
Specimens received from Mrs. Rosa Smith Eigenmann and Mr. Charles R. Orcutt.
Epeira bicentennana n. sp.
2.
Fig.
.
In the summer of 1882 I found in iiurtiiwestern Ohio and in the Alleghany mountains of Pennsylvania specimens of a species apparently new which I named Epeira hicentennaria.
195 1888.
This spider I described in a verbal coiiimunication to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The specimens wei'e found in nests of rolled leaves after the manner of JEpeira insularis and kindred spiders and were attached by a taut trapline to the centre of its adjoining snare.
Thespecimens then obtained were not mature and on the appearance of Mr. Emerton's descriptions of New England Epeiroids I concluded that my species was identical with his Epeira silvatica which it greatly resembles in external form.
Subsequently I received a number of adult specimens from Professor Peckham of Milwaukee Wisconsin collected by him in that state and thereafter 1886 I myself collected a number of the same species in the Adirondack mountains of Epeira bicentennaria female X  New York in the neighborhood of the Sarauac lakes and elsewhere A study of these led me to conclude that these examples differ from E. silvatica.
The species is 15 mm.
in length  is distinguished by two processes on either side of the dorsum of the abdomen at the base.
The markings are not unlike those of Epeira silvatica Fig e ir.num   cpigyuum of the female differs from that of Epeira silvatica.
organ as represented by Emerton.
 This is shown by a comparison of Fig.
4 with Fig.
5.
This appears to indicate a specific or at least a varietal difference between the two animals.
According to Emerton in adult females of silvatica the under side of the abdomen is dark brown without markings but the adults of bicentennaria have a yellow lunette on each side of the venter below Fig.
5Epigynum of the gills and a yellow circular patch on each side E. bicentennaria lower  in i  figure side view upper of thc mcdiau luie both at the middle and at trie view from the front .
i  i above.
spmneret.
The abdomen is somewhat triangular in shape.
The breadth at the base is a little less than the length  the color is a yellowish gray with brownish markings.
On the basal part is a yellow mark often assuming the shape of a lyre  See Emerton New England Spiders of the Family Epeiridae.
Trans Conn. Acad.
Vol.
vi 1884 PI.
xx.xv fig.
6.
196 L1888.
or the letter U.
A shieldshaped figure Avith scolloped edges occupies the middle of the dorsum.
On each side is a broad light undulating band with five or six folise of unequal length.
See fig.
3.
The cephalothorax is 5 mm.
long  is smooth and marked by brownisli bands along the sides and middle.
The legs are strongly annulated with brown rings about the joints and also in the middle of the thigh tibia and metatarsus.
Length  1st pair 225 mm.
 2nd pair 2175 mm.
 3rd pair 16 mm.
 4th pair 20'5 mm.
Epeira vertebrata n. sp.
o.
A number of specimens of both sexes and various ages of this .spider have been received from Mrs. Rosa Smith Eigenmann San Diego California at which point the species seems to be abundant and indeed is distributed to some extent northward along the Pacific coast.
The specimens include two forms which are very distinct in their shades and coloring one form being darker than the other so dark indeed that some examples seem quite black.
Female.
Fig.
6.
Length of body abdomen 11 mm.
 cephalothorax 45 mm.
The abdomen is of a yellowish brown color  a Vshaped whitish figure opening posteriorly extends from the cephalothorax to the crest of the abdomen.
The margins of tliis figure are broad and irregular.
A series of irregular white spots extends across the base and around the sides which are marked by three rather regular rows of black spots.
Wr '' kj   Vshaped figure is followed by a shorter iv. OZi iSLi .J W similar figure and this again by three circular patches of diminishing size the whole series terminating near the apex with a triangular patch.
The whole median line of the abdomen from cephalothorax to abdomen is thus marked by this series of distinct figures which are broken through the centre and along the line by a scolloped band of yellowisli brown color.
At regular intervals on each side of these vertebraelike median markings are circular and triangular patches of a whitish yellow color.
The outlines of the whitish patches are marked by strong lines of rosy brown hue.
The abdomen is strongly reticulated and the whole appearance is Fig.
6.
Epeira vertebrata Female light variety X 31888.
197 Epigyiium of vertebrata.
very beautiful.
Underneath the abdomen between tlie spinnerets and the epigynum are three broken patches of whitish yellow color enclosing a dark brown band.
The epigynum is marked by a hooked process or finger hollowed like a spoon at the tip.
On the anterior side the stem or base of the finger rises from a white circular cushion that extends beyond the body.
The end of the process is black slightly tipped with yellow and the base is yellowish brown in color.
See Fig.
7.
The sternum is shieldshaped of a blackish brown color with a broad yellow lancehead figure in the middle.
Slight processes on either side of this band mark the points at which the legs are inserted.
The cephalothoi'ax is a yellowish brown color marked hj bands of brown on either side and a narrow band along the median line to the summit of the caput.
The head is a very little depressed and narrows towards the face.
The palps and legs are of the same color as the cephalothorax  the legs somewhat darker and with dark brown rings at the ends of the joints.
Length 1st jair 23'5 mm.
 2nd pair 2125 mm.
 3rd pair 145 mm.
 4th pair 23.5 mm.
Male  length of abdomen 7 mm.
 cephalothorax 475 mm.
The male differs very little in length and in the general character of the markings from the female.
The herringbone or vertebrate figures along the median line of the abdomen are commonly more closely united than in the female.
The w'aving marks along the side are less broken and of a duller color.
The general color of the abdomen is gray with the central markings of a whitish yellow.
The abdomen and legs are a yellowish brown color.
The cephalothorax is broad the caput narrowing towards the face  the central band of lighter color quite broad.
Length of legs 1st pair 245 mm.
 2nd pair 2175 mm.
 3rd pair 135 mm.
 4th pair 20'5 mm.
The tibia of the second pair of legs is slightly curved and is armed on the lower and inside part with strong rows of thick black spines.
Fig.
9. male.
Epeira vertebrata  3Male palps of vertebrata.
The dark variet of this species resembles in the markings of the abdomen the lighter variety the abdomen however in the specimens possessed by me appears to be of a more uniform oval shape throughout.
The colors of the abdomen are black with yellow markings.
On either side are two broad broken bands of circular and irregular waving figures which meet in front and at the apex.
The cephalothorax and the legs are of a dark reddish brown or even blackish.
The bands on the cephalothorax are also quite black as are the tips of the palps.
This may be the normal color of the female Fig s nebrata.
after depositing the cocoon but I have so many Female dark variety.
X 3spccimeus that are marked in this way that it seems well to note the difference.
See Fig.
8.
Ep.
vertehrata var.
pidlus.
Epeira balaustina n. sp.
4.
I have three female sj'jecimens of this beautiful spider one of which I collected in Florida  another was sent by Mr. C. A. Townsend from Swan Island Caribbean Sea and a third was sent to me by the late Mr. William M. Gabb from Santo Domingo.
The sjDiders differ little in size and measure in length 15 mm.
The abdomen is of a slightly triangular shape in this I'espect approximating Ejyeira domiciUorum.
The abdomen is a bright yellow color somewhat mottled upon the sides and around the ventre with a darker shade of yellow or yellowish brown.
The markings are a quadruple series of lines drawn from the pits that indicate the muscular attachments longitudinally to the apex.
The spinnerets legs sternum and cephalothorax are of a bright orange except where the abdomen overhangs the latter which is yellow.
The palps are a lighter shade inclined to yellow.
The legs are without distinct annuli except the Florida specimen which has a broad black ring around the upper part of the thighs of the first second and fourth pairs of legs.
The cephalothorax and abdomen are covered with white hairs and the leg armature is of the same color and rather weak and sjarse.
The epigynum consists of a short flap trilobed at the tip which is slightly separated from a thicker flap of similar shape but which consists aiparently of three folds.
Viewed from the side the epigynum presents somewhat the appearance of the thnmb of a human hand chisped over the closed fingers  the thumb representing the posterior flap and the knuckles the folds and rugosities of the thick anterior one.
Epeira parvula.
Var.
conclilea.
5.
There are few spiders that present such striking variation in markings upon the dorsum of the abdomen as Epeira parvula.
It is a curious problem which remains yet to be solved what causes this variety.
It is probably due in some degree to those changes which in certain species are evidently effected by the various moultings which spiders undergo.
But that this cannot be the sole cause is shown by the fact thut the varied markings appear even among mature specimens particularly of the females.
In a quite large collection received from Wisconsin through Prof. Peckham and from California through Mrs. Rosa Smith Eigenmann I observed a number of individuals upon whom a further and even more striking change was manifest.
The abdomen of Epeira parvula is triangular shaped upon the dorsum and the apical part instead of rounding into an oval ends perpendicularly  that is to say is a straight wall from the spinnerets to the top.
In the variety alluded to which I have named Epeira coiichlea the terminal part of the dorsum of the abdomen assumes the shape of a caudal process resembling Uiat which is characteristic of the tailed spider Cyclosa caudata.
See Fig.
6 a.
This peculiarity I have traced in about a dozen species and in some much more decidedly than in others.
In other respects the specimens appear to be nearly identical with Epeira parvula.
The epigynum is in form the same although larger the finger being very broad at the base and rapidly terminating in a point that is slightly curled.
In front of the base is a trilobed black corneous flap.
Fig.
6e.
The body length is about 7 mm.
The maxillae are Fig.
6 e. broader or as broad as long and subtriangular at the tip.
Habitat AVisconsin California.
