ON SOME NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSCA FROM THE BERMUDA ISLANDS.
BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN.
The following species were obtained in the summer of 1888 during a brief sojourn with a class of students from the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Chama Bermudensis.
PI.
VIII fig.
1.
Shell thick ponderous subcordiform  the right valve considerably smaller than the left but yet thicker and deeper than in most Chamas  beak of left valve prominent spirally incurved  ligamental furrow in left valve deep arciform  dental sulcus broad moderately deep and supported interiorly by a prominent plate tooth.
Muscular impressions elongated not deep.
External surface roughly corrugated by the lines of growth.
Height of shell left valve measured to top of beak about three inches length measured along the anteroposterior axis 2 3 inches  thickness of single valve 12 15 inch.
Dredged in large quantities in Harrington Sound.
Macoma eborea.
PI.
VIII fig.
2.
Shell moderately inequilateral truncated in the lower half of the posterior slope  anterior slope regularly declivous the posterior flattened.
Right valve with widely diverging cardinal teeth the space between which receives the doubletooth grooved medially of the left valve  lateral teeth in right valve.
Pallial sinus large extending more than half across the shell  external surface white concentrically and delicately lined by the lines of growth.
Length of shell threequarters of an inch  height twothirds of an inch.
Mysia pellucida.
PI.
VIII fig.
3.
Shell thin convex ovally orbicular  the umbones moderately prominent nolunule hingeline linear a single mediallygrooved cardinal tooth in the left valve resembling Felanid.
Adductor impressions oval not much elongated.
Shell white nearly smooth.
Length of single specimen somewhat over a haltinch  height the same.
Cytherea Penistoni.
PI.
VIII fig.
4.
Shell subtrigonal the beaks prominently elevated lunule cordiforni  the dental characters normally those of the genus anterior lateral tooth left valve triangular lamellar.
Margin of shell even  pallial sinus broad directed upwards and not quite reaching the centre of the shell.
Lines of growth closely set and even.
Shell covered with a chestnut epidermis  interior purplish.
Length '6 inch  height 5 inch.
It gives me pleasure to name this delicate and abundantly represented Cytherea after my friend Miss A. Peniston of Peniston's from whom I have received much valuable assistance in the preparation of my material illustrating the Bermudian fauna.
Emarginula dentigera.
PI.
VIII fig.
7.
Shell flattened scutiform broadened posteriorly and with the apex slightly subcentral  surface with radiating ribs which alternate in size  sometimes two smaller ones between each pair of large ribs  and project the larger ones prominently beyond the general margin.
The impressed concentric lines give to the ribs a knobbed appearance.
Fissure fairly long narrow.
Length nearly  25 inch  height 1 inch.
Emarginula pileum.
PL VIII fig.
6.
Shell elevated with the form of a Phrygian cap  apex largely posterior well beaked radiating lines alternate deeply impressed by the concentric lines of growth and appearing knobbed.
Fissure moderately long parallelsided and occupying the position of one of the larger ribs.
Length slightly exceeding a quarter of an inch  height 2 inch.
Caecum termes.
PI.
VIII fig.
5.
Shell arcuate gradually increasing in size anteriorly where it is somewhat swollen  surface longitudinallycostated the costse appearing slightly rugose near the swollen base through the passing of the lines of growth.
Mucro distinct well excentric.
Color of shell yellowish  surface glossy.
Length about '1 inch.
This form appears to be fairly abundant.
It may be readily distinguished from most of the other longitudinallycostated species by the very nearly equal diameter of the shell being only slightly swollen basally.
