DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF ORTHOPRISTIS FROM THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS.
BY DAVID S. JORDAN AND BERT FESLER.
Orthopristis lethopristis.
Sp.
now Head S in length to base of caudal  depth 3  D. XII 14 A.
Ill 11 scales 865 ca 15 length of type 15 inches.
Maxillary 3 in head  eye 4  preorbital as broad as eye snout 2 in head  pectoral Ito  4th dorsal spine 2  2nd anal spine 6.J  first soft ray of anal 31  base soft dorsal 1 times in base of spinous dorsal.
Type No.
26947 Museum of Comparative Zoology.
From the Galapagos Islands.
Body rather elongate in form intermediate between that of 0. brevipinnis and that of 0. chalceus  back elevated and compressed especially anteriorly the profile regularly rounded.
Snout long moderately sharp.
Mouth larger than in any other Orthopristis the maxillary reaching to opposite front of eye.
Eye moderate.
Anterior nostrils large.
Preojiercle entire the border scarcely crenulate no projecting seme of any sort.
Lips thick  teeth small the outer above longer slender and closeset.
Gill rakers x 14 of moderate length a little shorter than pupil.
Pectoral falcate rather long.
Dorsal low rather sharply notched the spines low and slender the soft rays low highest toward the front.
Anal long and rather low with straight free border the small spines graduated the third scarcely half height of first ray.
Caudal peduncle long.
Caudal deeply forked.
Some series of scales on soft dorsal and anal a row 7 close behind each ray much as in 0. brevipinnis.
Color in spirits dark gray not silvery  center of each scale dark these spots forming continuous streaks along the rows of scales on back and sides much as in Hcemvlon parra but the scales are smaller and the spots fully continuous  the stripes above are straight or gently curved not wavy above lateral line they run upward and backward at an angle which grows less posteriorly those on caudal peduncle being horizontal  those below lateral line rather less distinct but straight and horizontal  fins rather dark  opercular edge membrane and axil dusky.
This species is described from a single example 15 inches long No.
26947 of the Museum of Comparative Zoology from the Galapagos Islands.
It is apparently most nearly related to Orthopristis brevipinnis Steindachner differing in the entire preopercle and in other respects.
THE STERNALIS MUSCLE.
BY S. W. WILLISTOST M. D. Of the many interesting muscular anomalies of the human subject few if any have been more enigmatical than the sternalis.
At various times and by various observers since the days of Albinus and earlier it has been regarded as a continuation of the rectus abdominis perhaps the most prevalent view and endorsed by Bardeleben  as a part of the stern omastoid  as pertaining to the paniculus carnosus group a view which the eminent anatomist Turner has favored  as a muscle sui generis without homologue in other animals  or as a muscle of the pectoral group which seems to be the most probable as well as most recent theory.
Neither can we say whether the muscle is vestigial or rudimentary  I use the words in Ryder's sense  though evidence points to the former.
But if a vestige and not a muscle developing we ought to find a counterpart of it in other animals which so far has not been done unless indeed we call it a skinmuscle which seems very improbable.
What then is it and what are its functions 
From Gruber's 1 and Turner's 2 researches it appears to occur in the normal human subject in some form or other in about three per cent of all cases.
In its normal or typical form as represented in the case figured herewith it appears to occur in less than one per cent of all cases.
But while so abnormal in the normal subject it appears to be normal in the abnormal subject that is it is almost invariably present in anencephalous monsters.
Abraham 3 found it in six out of seven anencephali Shepherd 4 in eight out of nine.
The latter adds  the fact that this muscle occurs so commonly in the brainless monsters would point rather to its being a rudiment than a new muscle appearing in man.
Anencephali are usually females  perhaps that fact may add strength to Albrecht's argument that woman approaches the brutes in structure more than does man 
However as first suggested by Abraham affirmed by Cunningham 5 and confirmed by Shepherd it seems probable that the muscle belongs 1 Mem.
de l'Acad.
Imp.
de St. Petersbourg iii I860.
2 Journ.
Anat.
and Phys.
1.
246 1867.
3 Trans.
Acad.
Med.
in Ireland i 1883.
4 Jour.
Anat.
andPhys.
xix 1885 ibid xxiii 18S9.
6 Journal Anat.
and Phys.
xviii 1884. to the pectoral group and is apparently a muscle of respiration when functionable.
Its nerve supply was found uniformly to come from the anterior thoracic by Cunningham  Shepherd found the same innervation in each of twelve muscles two of which however had also an additional supply from the intercostals.
Bardeleben  who however completely ignores the researches of Cunningham and Shepherd states that the nerve supply wherever he has traced it has been invariably from the third and fourth intercostals.
The evidence however seems to be against Bardeleben.
Based upon this innervation Bardeleben gives the following opinion   Die Innervirung dieser typischer Varietat wie ich sie bezeichnen mochte geschieht soweit Untersuchungen vorlegen durch intercostal and as the rectus abdominis has the same innervation we must consider the sternalis as a continuation of that muscle.
He would call the muscle  Rectus thoracis superficialis.
He believes the muscle to be vestigial.
His  typscher Varietat is that here figured.
The case here described would be worthy of record if only for the extraordinary development of the muscle on both sides but there are other facts connected therewith that give it an additional interest.
My attention was called to the muscles by two students Messrs. C. A. Tuttle and TV.
P. Baldwin in the practical anatomy room of Yale.
The subject was that of a male above thirty years of age much below the ordinary stature and of slender almost delicate structure throughout.
On the left side the muscle was nearly an inch and a half in its greatest width flattened and nearly symmetrically narrowed to its tendinous  insertion.
The round tendon began a little below the cartilage of the second rib and was continuous with the outer part of the tendon of the sternomastoid on which there were no fleshy fibres for some distance above the upper border of the manubrium.
Over the cartilage of the fifth rib the muscle became rather suddenly aponeurotic and continuous with the sheath of the rectus abdominis.
The glistening aponeurotic fibres diverged fanshaped the larger part Anatomischer Anzeiger iii 324 1 turning inwards to pass over the inner border of the rectus  others passed directly downward while still others turned outwards and downwards over the external oblique.
There were no fibres continuous with those of the abdominal muscles and none inserted into the ribs or sternum.
This arrangement of the muscle seems to be the normal one  though in the majority of cases either origin or insertion or both may be materially different.
The chief arterial supply was derived from a branch of considerable size from the internal mammary artery which perforated the third intercostal space.
I regret my inability to trace the nerve supply.
Shepherd found the nerve almost constantly lying between the upper and lower divisions of the pectoral.
On the right side the muscle was quite the same in origin and insertion and of similar size except for the additional portion that will now be described.
The subclavian muscle of the left side was larger and more fleshy than the normal one of the right side and none of its fibres were inserted into the costal cartilage the upper ones uniting with the manubrium but the larger number passing downward and inwards through a space left in the origin of the pectoral from the sternum and forming a slender round tendon which passed obliquely to the right side of the sternum to be inserted partly into the side of the sternum and upper border of the costal cartilage of the fourth rib but chiefly to blend with the sternalis.
As though to correct the oblique action that it otherwise would have had there was an additional sternalis on the right side arising from the middle fibres of the sternomastoid tendon to blend partly with the muscular fibres of the subclavius tendon but also terminating in a long tendon of its own that had an insertion into the costal cartilage of the fifth rib.
This accessory sternalis in its widest part was a half inch in width.
Some fibres of the pectoralis also sent a small tendon to join that of the subclavius.
The thorax was unusually long and cylindrical and contracted below the cartilage of the fifth rib as though constricted by a bandage.
Traction in the freshly dissected parts produced but little effect upon the sternomastoid notwithstanding the fact that the sternal portion was distinct from the clavicular portion for an unusually long distance.
Traction upward however produced a very distinct tightening of the abdominal sheath and constriction of the lower part of the thorax.
The muscle here certainly was a  Spanner der Bauchaponeurose.
 The recti muscles were well developed but the pectorales poorly.
The muscle has been believed to be one of inspiration where function able.
In this case their large size certainly indicated function and I cannot resist the belief that that function was not one of inspiration and that the deformity of the chest had been due to their action.
As was to be expected there were numerous anomalies in other parts of the body.
The circulation of the upper extremities showed abnormalities throughout so much so that it was difficult to homologize the arterial branches in axilla arm and hand.
Circumstances did not permit the careful search for variations but two striking ones may be noticed.
The tendon of the digastric muscles gave off two anterior bellies one normal in size and position the other a flattened triangular belly meeting its fellow in a median raphe and connected at its upper angle with the maxillary symphysis.
Another subject dissected at the same time had a very similar anomaly consisting of two fleshy bellies arising from the maxilla and passing down half way to the hyoid bone there uniting in a short raphe then diverging to be inserted by a tendon into the tendon of the digastric  in both subjects the geniohyoid was normal.
Another anomaly in the firstmentioned subject consisted of a double insertion by two equal tendons of the extensor indicis into the index and middle finger.
An examination of this subject's lungs showed that death had resulted from phthisis.
This is the fourth subject in wluch I have noticed numerous muscular and arterial anomalies coincident with tuberculosis and which incline me to the belief that persons possessing such are more predisposed to this disease than those of more normal structure  or in other words that numerous anomalies show impaired development and lessened vitality.
Schultze Anatom.
Anzeiger.
iii 231 1888.
NOTE ON ELAGATIS BIPINNULATUS.
BY SETH E. MEEK AND CHARLES H. BOLLMAN.
While Mr. Meek was in the employ of the New York State Fish Commission during the summer of 1886 it was his privilege to examine two specimens of Elagatis taken off Loug Island.
So far as we know this is the first positive record of the species on the United States coast.
1 Dr. Jordan visited the Key West and Havana markets during December 1883 and January 1884 and in neither of them found any specimens of Elagatis.
Our specimens agree very well with Prof. Poey's description of Seriola pinnulatus and there seems to be no doubt that the West Indian E. bipinnulatus is identical with the East Indian species E. bipinnulatus as Liitken has already indicated.
The following is the synonymy of Elagatis with that of its single known species.
ELAGATIS.
1835.
 Elagatis Bennett Whaling Voyage 11283 bipinnulatus.
1854.
 Seriolichthys Bleeker Naturk.
Tidschr.
Ned.
Ind. 1 195 bipinnulatus.
1860.
 Decaptus Poey Memorias 11 374 pinnulatus nonem nudum.
Type Seriola bipinnulata Quoy and Gaimard.
Elagatis bipinnulatus Bennett.
The Yellowtail.
Seriola bipinnulata Quoy and Gaimard Voy.
Uran. Zool. 1 363 pi.
61 fig.
3 1824 Cuvier Regne Anim.
111.
Poiss.
130 18 Jenyns Zool.
Beagle Fish.
72 1841 Keeling Islands.
Elagatis bipinnulatus Bennett Whaling Voy. 11 283 1835 Poey Enumeratio Pise.
Cubensium 83 1875.
Seriolichthys bipinnulatus Bleeker Nat.
Tidschr.
Ned.
Ind.
4 196 1854 Bleeker Nat.
Tidschr.
Ned.
Ind. 392 1858 Giinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. 468 1860.
Seriola pinnulata Poey Memorias 11 233 1860 Havana.
Decaptus pinnulatus Poey Memorias 11 374 1860.
1 Stearns' note in regard to the occurrence of this species at Key West apparently has reference to Aligoplites samus and not to the Elagatis Nat.
Hist.
Aquat.
Animals.
332 1884.
Elagatis pinnulatus Poey Synopsis 13 273 1868 Goode and Bean Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 130 1879 West Florida
 Goode and Bean U. S. Fish Com. 43 1881  Goode and Bean Proe.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 237 1882 Bean Lond.
Fish Exhib. 54 1883 Jordan and Gilbert Synopsis Fish N. A. 446 1883 Jordan Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 149 1884 Jordan Cat.
Fish N. A. 72 1885 Jordan Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 576 1886.
E. bipinnulatus.
Head o in body 5 including caudal depth 3.
D. VI 1272  A. II 1172.
Scales in lateral line about 100.
Body oblong elliptical the back little elevated.
Head rather long and pointed  mouth terminal  lower jaw slightly projecting beyond upper.
Maxillary triangular its greatest width 2 in its length  supplementary bone long and linear all except its caudoventral margin slipping under preorbital.
Preorbital and preopercle entire.
Teeth in both jaws small conical equal narrowing posteriorly  symphysis bare  villiform teeth on palatines vomer and tongue those on vomer in a diamondshaped patch with a caudal diverticulum.
Eye 5
in head 41 in smaller end of maxillary reaching about threefourths distance from nostril to vertical from cephalic margin of orbit.
Snout 2f in head.
Length of mandible equal to distance from tip of snout to center of .pupil distance from tip of upper jaw to posterior end of maxillary 31 in head.
Gill rakers about all below angle cephalic ones gradually shorter longest about f diameter of eye.
A slight occipital keel.
Lateral line Wfvy origin at dorsal edge of opercle the cephalic end of lateral line runs slightly dorsal to opposite origin of spinous dorsal  here it turns slightly ventral until opposite origin of anal and then median to caudal fin.
Origin of soft dorsal slightly nearer tip of snout than base of caudal.
Spinous dorsal low the third and fourth spines longest about 5 j in length of head.
Soft dorsal and anal similar slightly falcate longest dorsal rays 2 J in length of head the thirteenth smallest 62 in head second ray of dorsal finlet is about twice the length of first its length 4 in head.
Largest anal rays 3 in head  about as long as second ray of finlet  the two small anal spines remote from the rest.
Pectorals short and broad nearly 2 in head.
Ventrals short 2 in head folding in a ventral depression.
Caudal fin widely forked lobes attenuated and slightly larger than head.
Body covered with small cycloid scales.
Head not scaly except portions of cheeks and part of its dorsocaudal margin.
Scales on cheeks in about six series.
Scales in regions of nape smaller than those on upper portions of body long and narrow.
Color dark blue or lead above becoming pale yellowish below.
Two conspicuous blue bands on sides of body  the dorsal one begins at the orbit and passes caudal to dorsal margin of caudal peduncle its width about equal to diameter of eyes  the second begins at snout passes along ventral margin of orbit across opercle and a little dorsal of base of pectoral fin to caudal.
Caudal yellowish with a darker margin  ventrals pectorals and caudal yellowish with more or less blue.
The only difference we have been able to find between our specimens and the description of E. biplnnulatus is that in the latter the preopercle is said to be crenulate while in ours the preopercle is entire  hut as this is a character subject to variation at different ages we strongly adhere to Dr. Liitken's opinion that biplnnulatus and pinnulatus are identical.
Our description is taken from two specimens the larger of which was caught in Gravesend Bay September 21 1885 and is in the Museum of the Indiana University  the smaller nine inches in length was caught off Coney Island August 6 1887  it is in the possession of the wellknown fish dealer Mr. E. G. Blackford of New York City.
1889.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
45 March 5.
The President Dr. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
Note on Gonyleptes and Solpuga.
 Dr. Leidy exhibited a curious spider presented by Dr. W. H. Jones who obtained it in Rimac valley in the vicinity of Lima Peru.
It is a large form related to our Daddylonglegs Phalangium and is the Gonyleptes curvipes.
The species was originally described from Chili.
It is represented in Fig.
176 in Kingsley's Standard Natural History.
Another specimen exhibited was presentee
by Mr. Joseph Willcox who collected it in Florida.
It is a Solpuga differing from ordinary spiders in having both thorax and abdomen segmented.
The species according to Putnam Proc.
Davenport Acad.
1883 264 was previously collected in the same locality It agrees in size 20 mm. and other characters with the Galeodes cubce of Cuba described by Lucas Hist de l'Isle de Cuba Atlas Tab.
v. fig.
6.
Mazapilite a. new mineral species.
 Prof. George A. Kodnig recalled to the Academy that he had given a preliminary notice on July 3 1888 of a new mineral of which he had not yet made a quantitative analysis or measured the angles accurately as he was then on the point of leaving for his summer vacation.
The mineral was then described as an arsenite of iron and calcium.
The full examination showed this description to be erroneous.
When first examined the mineral yielded in the closed tube a sublimate of As 2 O 3 and water.
This sublimate was not obtained in repeated later trials.
The mineral is an arseniate of calcium and iron.
Mazapilite occurs only in welldeveloped crystals which are imbedded in white calcite and aragonite.
The crystals vary in length from 
to  inch and rV to to inch in breadth.
They are all developed at both ends and fall easily from the matrix in which they leave an ochreyellow impression.
Minute warty particles of a grayish color were observed in some of these cavities.
The crystals are black deep brownred on the fracture.
They are slightly translucent at the thinnest edges with bloodred color.
The streak is ochreyellow.
The luster is submetallic.
The crystals possess the habitus of the combination represented in the cut without exception.
The four faces designated  P are found to lie in one zone and therefore the symmetry of the combination is orthorhombic.
The following angles were measured  P P  115 10' over oo P. P  P  100 35' over brachiaxis.
46 1889. oo P  P  44 56' over the pole.
oo P  Poo  60 10'  119 50' The angle of 115 10' is uncertain within 5'.
One of the faces of P measured was very small and gave a dim reflection.
All the other faces reflect satisfactorily even excellently.
On one very small crystal the faces of a brachidome were observed but could not be measured.
No cleavage has been observed and therefore the longest dimension was chosen for the main axis in the position represented by the cut.
The parameters of the fundamental pyramid are  a b c  0.
73104 1 1.1640.
The optical properties could not be studied by reason of the failure to obtain a thin section which would transmit any light  the color is so intense.
The specific gravity was determined with 1.2475 grs.
of pure crystals and found  3.
582 B.
B.
When the powder is heated in closed tube it yields much water without change of the ochreyellow color.
Only at a red heat the color changes to a light brickred.
In the oxydizing flame the mineral fuses to a black scoria which is magnetic.
On charcoal a light volatile sublimate is produced and the garlic odor of arsenic is developed.
With borax only the reaction for iron is obtained.
The mineral dissolves easily in hot concentrated hydrochloric acid without effervescence.
The solution does not precipitate gold chloride absent Fe and As 2 3 .
In the course of the analysis care was taken to obtain complete precipitation of arsenic.
Hydrogen sulphide was passed through the solution three times allowing the solution to stand 24 hours Only upon saturating the fourth time no after each separation.
precipitation resulted.
As 2 S 3 S was weighed  a portion oxydized and precipitated by Mg CI 2 .
After filtering N H 4  2 was removed by heat H CI added and H 2 S passed through the solution.
A small quantity of Sb 2 S 3 was obtained.
After igniting the ferric hydrate it was redissolved and by molybdic solution a slight yellow precipitate produced.
This proved to be due to phosphorus.
Water was determined in a separate portion.
0.
5520 of the substance gave.
0.
3430 As 2 S 3  S. 0.
3125 As 2 S 3  S gave 0.2960 Mg 2 As 2 07.
0.
1685 Fe 2 O 3 .
0.
0820 Ca O 0.
3050 substance lost by successive heating.
0.
0020 at 130 C. .
0130 at 279 C. 0.
0159 up to 360 C. .
0240 up to beginning redheat  the color of the powder remains unchanged up to this point.
.
0290 the powder becomes partly red.
0.
0300 at full reddieat.
The powder is light brickred.
These numbers furnished  As 2 O 5  43.60 S6 2 O 5  0.25 P 2 5  0.14 Fe 2 O 3  30.53 Ca O 14.82 H 2 O  9.83 99.17 From this follows the ratio  As 2 O 5  Fe 2 O 3  Ca  H 2 O. I 1.09 1.49 3.09. or very nearly in Ca 3 Fe 2 As 4 J 4 Fe O. H O 2 5 H 2 O.
In view of the fact that the color remains unchanged up to red heat and then turns brickred the assumption of one molecule of ferric hydrate is well justified as is likewise the consideration of the remaining water as not being constitutional.
If we compare this composition with that of Arseniosiderite Rammelsberg Mineralchemie Aufl.
II p. 347 we find a close affinity between the two substances.
It may hereafter be shown that the composition of the doubtful mineral from Romaneche is identical with the Mazapilite but for the present it seems proper to distinguish the latter as a perfectly wellestablished species.
The mineral Mazapilite occurs at the Mine Jesus Maria District of Mazapil Zacatecas Mex.
It was brought thence by Dr. A. E. Foote to whose kindness the author is indebted for the material.
March 12.
The President Dr. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
A paper entitled  The Boring Sponge Cliona  by Jos.
Leidy M. D. was presented for publication.
The death of Isaiah V. Williamson a member was announced.
48 proceedings of the academy of 1889.
March 19.
Dr. Charles Schaeffer in the chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication    Color variations in Ophnira Panamensis and Ophnira teres by J. E. Ives. 
On Pratincola Salax Verr and Allied Species by Witnier Stone. 
On new and littleknown American Mollusca.
No.
I. by H. H. Pilsbry.
A meeting of the Biological and Microscopical Section Mr. Harold Wingate Director was held conjointly with the meeting of the Academy.
Tilmadoche compacta Wing. n. sp.
 Mr. Harold Wingate reported that this Myxomycete has been found during several summers in Fairmount Park Phila. also at Wawa Pa. and in Ohio Morgan.
The speaker not being able to identify it with the description of any Tilmadoche as found in the literature sent it to many correspondents under the mss.
name as above.
Later a note to the description of Tilmadoche columbina B. in Dr. Rostafinski's Monograph was found to contain points which caused the writer to think that the plant was not a new species and as sufficient material had been collected by himself and Dr. Geo.
A. Rex it was sent to Mr. J.
B. Ellis and issued by him in vol.
XXI of North Amer.
Fungi No.
2087 under the name of Tilmadoche columbina B.
In Grevillea Vol.
17 No.
81 fol.
18 a note of Mr. G. Massee's says that the type specimen of T. columbina in the Berkeley Herbarium is very different from the plant in N. A. F. so we now return to our original name.
The following is a description of the species  Tilmadoche compacta Wing. n.sp.
 Sporangia brownishwhite flattened globose occasionally globose nodding borne on subulate yellowishwhite stipes which have a brown or blackish base and reach to a height of three or four times the width of the sporangium  sporangiumwall studded with numerous snowwhite limegranules the remainder of the wall bronzecolor with a metallic luster splitting on maturity in a floriform manner with from six to twelve lacinia
 capillitium after removal of the spores white with a faint bluish tint under reflected light owing to the translucence or iridescence of its delicate threads  the latter originate from a central limegranule which is generally quite large branch several times as they proceed towards the surface of the sporangium and join into a dense compact net the ends of the last branches attached to the inner side of the sporangiumwall  limegranules inthe capillitium very few small white fusiform  spores bright brownviolet brown in the mass very delicately warted 79 mk.
Fairmoiuit Park Phila. Pa. and Ohio Morgan.
This Tilmadoche has marked characteristics.
The stipe for a short distance from the base is very dark but suddenly changes to a yellowishwhite.
When the sporangium bursts the top part of the wall generally pulls out the capillitium immediately over the central limegranule so that the latter is exposed to view.
In some cases when quite large the granule falls out leaving a circular empty space in the center of the sporangium without disturbing the outline of the capillitium.
The capillitium is very flimsy and its faint bluish tint in the mass quite marked under a parabolic reflector.
The metallic luster of the sporangiumwall is constant in the specimens collected during different summers.
March 26.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. VicePresident in the chair.
It was resolved that evenings as follow be assigned to the sections named for the purpose of holding meetings in conjunction with the Academy  biological and Microscopical Section the third Tuesday of each month  the Mineralogical and Geological Section the first Tuesday of each alternate month beginning with April  the Conchological Section the second Tuesday of each alternate month beginning with May  the Botanical Section the first Tuesday of each alternate month beginning with May.
Mr. Louis Schneider was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed  
