DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF HELIX.
BY JOHN FORD.
Helix Planispira Deaniana Fonl.
Shell umlilicatel discoidal flattened above and below  thin but solid  white with a broad chestnutbrown zone encircling the last whorl just above the periphery and continued on the next whorl immediately above the suture.
Surface comjjaratively smooth the growth strise being very faint.
AVhorls 4i convex the inner ones sunken a trifle below the level of the penultimate whorl which projects slightly above the last whorl.
The latter is large rounded above below and at the periphery slowly descending in front to about the middle of the preceding Avhorl  narrowly constricted behind the basal lip much inflated just behind the constriction and obliquely excavated in the umbilicus behind the columellar lip.
Aperture very oblique rotund lunar Avhite showing the brown bands inside.
Lip broadly expanded on upper and outer margins very narrowly reflexed on the basal and columellar.
The outer and basal portions are of a beautiful pink rosecolor.
The parietal wall has a thin wash of callus.
Umbilicus funnelshaped and slightly impinged upon by the columellar lip.
Alt.
Hi greater diam.
26 lesser 20 mill.
Aperture oblique alt.
16 breadth 14
mm.
including peristome.
Width of umbilicus 2j mm.
Hab.
New Guinea.
Though resembling somewhat the figure of H. tortilabia in Reeve's Monograph PI.
92 fig.
498 it has a far more broadly expanded superior lip narrower basocolumellar lip and the bodywhorl is much less gibbous behind the lip than in Reeve's figure.
This beautiful species was collected in the interior of New Guinea by the late Mr. Wm.
Denton and presented to the Academy by his son Mr. Shelley Denton of Wellesley Mass.
It has been named in honor of Mr. Geo.
W. Dean of Kent Ohio a dear friend of both gentlemen and a most worthy student of conchological science.
1890.
natural sciences of thiladelphia.
189 June 3.
Mr. Theo.
D. Rand in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
June 10.
Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The death of Richard K. Betts a member May 29th was announced.
June 17.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentyseven persons present.
The death of Isaac J. Williams a member June 10 was announced.
Marine and Fresh Water Diatoms and SpongeSpicules from the Delaware River Clays of Philadelphia.
 Mr. Lewis Woolman exhibited under the microscope in connection with the Microscopical and Biological Section specimens of sponge spicules and diatoms from the Philadelphia clays and stated respecting them that about a year ago Mr. C. Henry Kain remarked to him that a pupil in a public school of the city had handed him in 1884 a lump of blue clay with the broad but rather indefinite information that it was obtained from a cellar near 8th and Vine streets and that it contained diatoms which on further examination proved to be salt water forms.
Mr. Kain at that time catalogued the forms but did not publish the discovery because unable to exactly locate and positively identify the bed from which the clay had been obtained and also because some question had been raised as to the probability of marine species occurx'ing in Philadelphia clays.
The tearing down of the houses at the southwest corner of 9th and Market streets formerly occupied by Messrs.
Cooper  Conard preparatory to the erection of a new building to be used by their successors Messrs. Granville B. Haines ct Co. recently presented an opportunity to investigate the subject referred to by Mr. Kain.
In deepening the cellar and digging still lower for the foundations a bed of clay was encountered varying from whitish and yellowish tobluijh in color.
In the northwest corner of the basement this bed was found ten feet below the pavement  from this point it has a slight but irregular dip toward the southeast.
It has a thickness of about six feet and rests upon gravel which varies in different laces from a sharp sand to a coarse gravel containing some extra large pebbles.
Enclosed within the clay on the 9th street side are some thin lenticularshaped deposits of sand.
A careful examination of all portions of the clay which was here exposed over an area of 120 feet by 132 feet revealed the presence of .sponge spicules in considerable numbers Init more numerous at the bottom than at the top of the bed.
Many were of the pinhead forms characteristic of salt water.
A very few marine diatoms Avere also observed.
Within a week after the preceding investigations some bluish clay belonging to the same bed was obtained from an excavation at 9th  Race streets.
The clay is here a few feet nearer the street level.
At this point sponge spicules and diatoms occur both in abundance.
The diatoms show a mixture of salt water and fresh water forms.
About fifty species have been observed twothirds being marine and onethird fresh water.
Numerically however probably seveneighths of the individual forms are marine.
Among the sponge spicules the characteristic marine forms with pin head termination at one end were here again observed.
Here also the life forms were more plentiful in the lower part of the bed.
What is probably the same clay bed and likewise containing marine spicules and diatoms has been met with at 11th and Cherry streets about two feet below the pavement in an excavation for an underground telegraph conduit.
Clay with marine spicules has also been obtained from a depth of two and a half feet at 15tli and Summer streets and also from beneath the basement floor of the City Hall.
The inference to be drawn from these facts is that the former and wider ocean estuary of Delaware Bay covered the site of Philadelphia with its saline waters and that its life forms were mainly marine but that it was subject to considerable invasion of fresh water from tlie river and neighboring streams and thus fresh water forms were brought into association with marine species.
Mixtures of salt and freshwater diatoms have also been found in deposits near the present borders of the Delaware and Schuylkill rivers.
They occur at lower levels than that of the clay bed at 9th and 3Iarket streets and probably belong to a lower flood plain of the rivers and would therefore be more recent in date.
The Delaware Bay had by this time considerably diminished in width but the presence of marine diatoms would indicate the continuance of ocean water influences up to the latitude of Philadelhia until quite recently.
The assemblage of salt and fresh water diatoms now referred to were found in borings preliminary to work done or to be done for the foundations of the eastern abutments of the Chestnut and Walnut street ridge.s over the Schuylkill also in a boring made lelov the bottom of the Schuylkill in searching for a suitable foundation for the central jier of the pivot bridge at Penrose Ferry.
These borings Avere furnished by S. L. Smedley City Surveyor.
IMarine and fresh water diatoms were also met with in abundance near Reed street wharf on the Dehiware river in clay from an excavation twenty feet or more in depth made for the construction of a water tank for the use of Spreckels' Sugar Refinery.
Dr. F. W. Lewis in the Proceedings for 1861 evidently refers to this same deposit when on page 62 he says   The old estuary bed of the Delaware blue clay was very rich in these forms i. e. brackish and marine  and by digging down a short distance at any part of the meadowland bordering the river the blue clay which contains them may be exposed.
In connection with these remarks and as completing the record of discoveries relating to diatoms in Philadelphia clays it may be well to refer to an exclusive fresh water deposit brought to the notice of the Academy by Prof G. A. Koenig in November 1885 and by Aubrey H. Smith in May 1886.
This was found in the bottom of the cut of the Baltimore and Ohio R. R. south of Gray's Ferry road.
The same bed has since been seen by the speaker in the bottom of an excavation made for Reed street sewer near where it passes under the Baltimore and Ohio R. R. and about three blocks from the former locality.
This fresh water bed occupies a higher level than the marine deposits bordering the rivers.
It underlies the clays used for brick making in the vicinity and is separated therefrom by a few feet of gravel and must itself lie very close to or upon the micaceous rocks underlying and surrounding the city and which outcrop between tlie points where the deposit has been observed and the Schuylkill River.
From information obtained from workmen at the locality the bed is believed to be about ten feet thick.
Its exact relation to the marine and mixed deposits previously described in this communication has not yet been determined.
June 24.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Seventysix persons present.
Mexican Explorations. Frof.
Angelo Heilprin made a preliminary report on the work accomplished by the exploring party which went to Mexico in February last.
It was announced that detailed reports of the expedition were being prepared and would be presented for publication later in the year.
Mr. J. Dundas Lippincott was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed  
