ECHINODERMS AND CRUSTACEANS COLLECTED BY THE WEST GREENLAND EXPEDITION OF 1891.
BY J. E. IVES.
The collection of Echinoderirif* and Crustaceans obtained by the Expedition of the Academy of Natural Sciences to the western coast of Greenland in the summer of 1891, Professor Angelo Heilprin in charge, was made mainly in McCormick Bay, on the southern shore of Prudhoe Land, in Lat.
77° 40' N., Long.
71° W. where Lieutenant Peary, in command of the North Greenland Expedition, was left in wijiter quarters.
A few specimens were also collected at localities touched at in the journey to and from this place.
The author is indebted to Professor Benjamin Sharp the Zoologistin-Charge of the Expedition for the opportunity of working up this portion of the collection.
No new forms were found, but the collection is of some interest on account of the specimens having been obtained much further north on the western coast of Greenland than heretofore.
It is also worthy of note that the two Isopods, Atylus carlnatus and Themisto lihellula, are the prey respectively of the Eider Duck and the Kinged Seal.
So much has been written upon the arctic fauna that it Avould be superfluous to make any comments upon the distribution of the species collected, but attention may be drawn to the fact that the more that is known of the marine invertebrates of these regions, the more apparent becomes the general homogeneity of the circumboreal fauna.
The collections made by the United States Expedition to Point Barrow, Alaska, have confirmed the evidence in this direction already obtained by the various expeditions to the arctic regions of the North Atlantic, and by the " Vega " during its cruise along the northern shores of Russia and Siberia.
ECHINODERMS.
Amphiura Sundevalli Miiller and Troschel.
Amphiura Holhblli Li'itken.
McCormick Bay.
A single specimen dredged in 3 fathoms of water upon Fucus.
Ophioglypha robusta Lyman.
i Ophiura squamosa Liitkeu.
?
Ophiura fasciculata Forbes.
McCorniick Bay.
A number of specimens dredged in 3 fathoms of water upon Fucus.
Ophiocten sericeum Forbes.
Ophiocten Kroyeri Liitken.
McCormick Bay.
Four specimens dredged in 3 fathoms of water upon Fucus.
Asterias Gronlandica Steenstrup.
McCormick Bay.
A single specimen dredged in 3 fathoms of water upon Fucus.
Asterias polaris MUller and Troscbel.
Godhavn, Disco Island.
A single specimen collected on the beach.
Strongylocentrotus Drobachiensis Muller.
]\IcCormick Bay.
A single young specimen dredged in 3 fathoms of water upon Fucus.
CRUSTACEA.
Arcturus Bafi&ni Sabine.
McCormick Bay.
A single specimen collected on the beach.
Anonyx nugax Phipps.
INIcCormick Bay.
Numerous specimens from about 5 fathoms of water.
Gammarus locusta Linn.
McCormick Bay.
Numerous specimens from about 5 fathoms of water.
Atylus carinatus Fabricius.
McCormick Bay.
Numerous specimens from about 5 fathoms of water.
Disco Bay.
Numerous specimens taken from the .stomach of an Eider Duck (Somateria mollissima borealis.)
1 It appears to me questionable whether the species described under this name by Dr. Lyman is the same as the species originally described by Ayres.
I have, therefore, merely adopted Dr. Lyman's name provisionally to indicate the species he has described.
Themisto libellula Mandt.
Melville Bay.
Numerous specimens from the stomach of a Ringed Seal (Phoca fietida.)
Aegina spinifera Bell.
McCormick Bay.
A single specimen from about 3 fathoms of water.
The following annual reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee : — REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The meetings of the Academy have been held during the year 1891 Avithout intermission.
On no occasion, even in midsummer, has there been lack of a quorum.
The co-operation of the several Sections of the Academy has been continued on the appointed evenings with gratifying results.
The average attendance has been fiftytwo as compared with thirty of the year before.
The increase has been due to three or four meetings where the attendance ranged from 183 to 398, due to the special interest of the occasion, such as the Leidy memorial addresses and the reports of the Greenland Expedition.
Even excluding these, the attendance has been somewhat greater than that of last year, which itself showed a gratifying increase over former years.
Such statistics may be worth recording as they indicate a sustained and increasing interest which can only be due to the number and value of the communications presented for the consideration of the meetings.
Subjects distributed over the entire field of natural history have been discussed by Messrs. Leidy, Heilprin, Meehan, Chapman, Horn, Ives, Ryder, Sharp, Pilsbry, Allen, Kcenig, McCook, Woolman, English, Foote, Rand, Martindale, Skinner, Rex, Wingate, Ford, Wilson, Peary, Osborn, Cheston Morris, Trotter, Dall, Rothrock, D. G. Brintou, J.
B. Brintou, Willcox, Holman, Stiles, Holt, U. C. Smith, Goldsmith, MacFarlane, Bonsai, Cope and Hughes.
One hundred and forty-three pages of the Proceedings for 1890 and 408 of the volume for 1891 have been issued, the former being illustrated by eight plates and the latter by seventeen.
During the same period there have been prepared and distributed to subscribers 631 pages, illustrated by 139 colored plates, of the Manual of Conchology under the auspices of the Conehological Section, while 500 pages of entomological matter, illustrated by 20 plates, have been issued by the American Entomological Society and the Entomological Section of the Academy, thus making a total of 1682 pages and 184 plates supplied to subscribers and exchanges during the year by the Academy through its Publication Committee and its Sections.
In this department of its work the Academy is therefore far in advauce of any other society in America and is equalled by but fewelse where.
Thirty-nine papers have been presented for publication as follows:— J. E.Ives 4, H. A. Pilsbry 3, Witmer Stone 3, Charles Earle 2, E. D. Cope 2, Harrison Allen 2, R. W. Shufeldt 2, Edward Bancroft 1, H. C. Chapman 1, H. C Chapman and A. P. Brubaker 1, J.
B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart 1, Edw.
Goldsmith 1, John Ford 1, Ashdown H. Green 1, Angel o Heilprin 1, H. F. Osborn 1, W. H. Dall and H. A. Pilsbry 1, G. Baur 1, Charles R. Keyes 1, Jos.
Leidy 1, F. Lamson Scribner 1, Geo.
A. Koenig 1, O. C. Marsh 1, Thomas Meehan 1, Geo.
A. Rex 1, Theodore D. Rand, Wm.
W. Jefferis and J. T. M. Cardeza 1, John Eyerman 1 and Samuel N. Rhoads 1.
Thirty-six of these have been accepted for publication in the Proceedings, two for the Journal and one has been returned to the author.
It is to be regretted that the limited means at the disposal of the Publication Committee has rendered it necessary to delay the printing of some of the papers reported on favorably.
In common with all the departments of the Academy the Publication Committee feels acutely the necessity for increased resources.
It is due, not only to the members of the Society but also to our exchanges, from some of whom we receive more than we give, that papers of value presented for publication be issued promptly and with illustrations Avorthy of the Academy's position in the scientific world.
It is true that the volume of Proceedings about being completed will compare favorably with the greater number of those received in exchange, but we are indebted wholly or in part for several of the plates to contributors and others, and it is most desirable that the Publication Fund should be so increased as to place us beyond the necessity for such assistance.
Thirty-nine members and three correspondents have been elected.
During the year the deaths of fourteen members and three correspondents have been announced and the resignations of seven members, namely, F. A. Genth, Jr., John T. Montgomery, Mrs. C. Stevenson, Wm.
Gerlach, A. G. B. Hinckle, E. Fronani and S. G. M. Montgomery have been accepted, thus leaving an increase of eighteen in the list of active members at the end of the year.
The death of the President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, April 30, entailed a severe loss, not only on this society but on science everywhere.
To his modestv and amiability was due the warm pei-sonal affection felt for him by all with whom he was placed in intimate association, a feeling but rarely met with except among those united by blood or by close social ties.
Engaged as be bad been in the uninterrupted service of the Academy as Librarian, Curator and President for nearly half a century, it is evident that only the possession of rare qualities as a man and a scholar could have enabled him to retain the confidence of a varying constituency during such a prolonged period.
A memorial meeting, impressive because of the sincerity of the sentiments of esteem and regard expressed, was held May ] 2th.
The personal history of the deceased President was read with loving appreciation by Dr. Wm.
Hunt, his intimate associate since early manhood ; the various sections of his widely distributed scientific work were reviewed by Dr. Harrison Allen, Dr. H. C. Chapman^ Mr. Joseph Willcox, and Dr. James Darrach, his personal character and services to the Academy being commented on by the Recording Secretary.
In consequence of the repetition and overlapping which is unavoidable in such independently prepared papers, it was deemed advisable that a continuous biographical notice should be presented for publication.
This duty, on the invitation of the Academy, was admirably performed by Dr. Henry C. Chapman whose intimate knowledge of the man and his work specially fitted him for the appointment.
The photogravure jiortrait published with the memoir admirably represents Dr. Leidy as lie was known to the present generation of Academicians, without indicating any of the changes due to the sickness and exhaustion of his last months of life.
As a further mark of respect to his memory the Academy resolved to leave the jiresidential chair vacant until the end of the year.
His curatorship was filled by the election, June 2, of Dr. Henry C. Chapman who was also placed by the Council on tlie Library Committee.
Mr. Aubrey H. Smith, a member of the Council, having died April 14th, Mr. Chas.
E.Smith was elected to fill the vacancy.
He was also appointed on the Publication Committee to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Dr. Leidy.
The formation of an Ornithological Section was authorized May 26.
It has since been organized with, it is believed, immediate benefit to the department of the Academy with which it is connected.
The Council appointed Messrs. Angelo Heilprin, J. P. Lesley, Persifor Frazer, W. B. Scott and Benjamin Smith Lyman as the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award.
On the report of this committee the second medal, together with the balance of interest arising from the Fund, was voted by the Academy October 20th, to Edward Drinker Cope in recognition of the value of his services to geological and paleontological science.
Chapter I of the By-Laws was amended by the addition of Article X : — Xo member shall be eligible to the office of President for more than four consecutive years.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw.
J. Nolan, Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF CORRESPONDIXG SECRETARY.
The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the past year commencing December 1st, 1890, he has received from sixty-eight Societies, Museums, etc., one hundred and thirtvone notices of the receipt of the publications of the Academv ; thirty-two notices from Societies, Museums, etc., of the forwarding of their own publications.
There has been received twenty applications to exchange publications, for reports, and asking for missing numbers of the Academy's publications.
Twentv-five letters on various subjects, together with four invitations to the Academy and its members to participate in congresses, meetings, etc.
have been received and answered.
Six notices of deaths have been received.
During the year three Correspondents have been elected and notices to that effect have been forwarded to them ; the acknowledgement of one of these has been received.
Nine certificates of Correspondentship were forwarded to those elected during the past year, four of which have been acknowledged.
Respectfully submitted, Benjamin Sharp, Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
The Librarian respectfully reports that the accessions to the library of the Academy from November 30, 1890, to December 1, 1891, amount to 4335, an increase of 156 over the additions of the 486 [1891. preceding year.
They were composed of 3858 pamphlets and parts of serials, 440 volumes and 37 maps, photographs, engravings, etc.
We are indebted to the following sources for this supply.
— Societies I. V. Williamson Fund, Editors, AiUhois, U. S. Department of the Interior, Wilson Fund, U. S. Department of Agriculture, State of Pennsylvania, .... U. S. Department of State, .
.
Benj.
Smith Lyman, .... Chas.
P. Perot, Thomas Meehan, H.C.Wood Jr., H. A. Pilsbry, Minister of Public Works in France, Harrison Allen, California State Mining Bureau, U. S. Treasury Department, .
Government of Australia, .
.
.
Geological Survey of Pennsylvania Geological Survey of Russia, British Museum, Geological Survey of Canada, Angelo Heilprin, Geological Survey of India, .
.
U. S. War Department, Geological Survey of Brazil, .
.
Philip P. Calvert, Chas.
E. Smith, Chas.
M. Belts, Geological Survey of Missouri, .
J. P. Remington, Kew Gardens, H. C. Chapman, Geological Survey of Finlai.d, .
1586 976 949 261 114 80 32 32 23 20 20 14 12 11 10 10 9 9 Geological Survey of New South Wales, D. B. McCartee, Geological Survey of Minnesota, Alex.
Muckle, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Witmer Stone, Clark Maxwell Memorial Committee, East Indian Government, U. S. Department of Labor, .
Canadian Meteorological Service, U. S. Navy Department, .
.
.
Department of Agriculture, Canada, C. W. Reilly J. H. Redfield, Geological Survey of Kentucky, Frau G. Vom Rath, .... Henry Skinner, Norwegian Government, .
.
.
Niagara Commissioners, .
.
.
Geological Survey of Portugal, .
Geological Survey of New Zealand, Geological Survey of Roumania, Adele M. Fielde, U. S. Coast Survey Illinois Bureau of Labor, .
.
.
W. J.
Fox, Geological Survey of New Jersey, Inriian Museum, Geological Survey of Texas, .
Geological Survey of Arkansas, S. G. Dixon E. C. Knight & Co., .... U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries, Twenty-six volumes were obtained by special subscription.
They were placed in the several departments of the Library as follows : — Journals, 3376 Geology, 182 Botany, 173 General Natural History, ... 81 Entomology, 58 Ornithology, 53 Conchology, 38 Mammalogy, 33 Anatomy and Physiology, .
.
33 Voyages and Travels, .... 23 Physical Science, 20 Encyclopedias, 19 Mineralogy 14 Anthropology, H Chemistry, 10 Ichthyology, 9 Herpetology, 8 Medicine, 7 Bibliography, 6 Geography, 3 Agriculture, 1 Unclassified, Government Publications, etc 177 The subject catalogue of the entire library was completed and arranged early in the year.
It has, of course, been since kept up to date, the accessions being carded and arranged immediately on their presentation.
But few volumes have been bound, all the resources of the Library Committee being required for the purchase of books actually needed by the working members of the Academy and for the continuance of subscriptions to serials and periodicals.
Among the more noteworthy additions recorded is a fine set of Edwards' Botanical Register, a much needed journal, procured by special subscriptions received from Messrs. John T. Morris, Stuart Wood, Alex.
Biddle, Charles W. Trotter, (jhai-les Schaeffer and INIiss Serena Potts, through Mr. Thomas INIeehan.
The " Hortus Siccus Gramineus" of Wm.
Curtis, published in London in 1802, was presented in two well-preserved volumes by Dr. Charles R. King and being illustrated, not by figures but by the plants themselves, was transferred to the herbarium.
We are indebted to Mr. Edw.
C. Pickering for a fine crayon portrait of the late Dr. Charles Pickering, whose early work in connection with the Academy well merits such commemoration.
Another interesting addition to the society's collection of portraits is a fine oil painting of Alex.
Lawson, the engraver, who, although never a member of the Academy, was intimately associated with the founders and should be held in grateful remembrance in consequence of the fine plates prepared by him in illustration of Binney's Mollusks and Wilson's Birds.
The picture was presented by his daughter, Mrs. Mary Lawson Birckhead.
A pair of globes bequeathed to the Academy' by Mrs. Cecilia Barron Fest have also been received and appropriately placed in the library.
It gives me pleasure to acknowledge the efficient assistance rendered in the current work of the year by Mr. William J.
Fox.
All of which is respectfully submitted, Edw.
J. Nolan, Lihrarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators present the following statement of the Curator-inCharge as their report for the year 1891 : — The Curator-in-Charge respectfully reports that the collections of the Academy are in much the same condition as they were at the time of the preparation of the last annual report ; this condition is, in the main, satisfactory so far as the actual state of preservation of the specimens is concerned, but the limitation of space in the Museum no longer permits of that attention being given to proper display and classification which are so desirable, either from the point of view of the mere visitor or of that of the scientist.
Attention has been repeatedly called in these reports to this deficiency, but for the time it has seemed impossible to rectify the defect.
The surprisingly rapid growth of the collections, giving evidence of continued and increased interest in the workings of the Academy, has of itself been the chief obstacle to systematization, crowding as it does, all space available in the institution.
Relief seems near at hand, however.
The generous response of the State to the Academy's application for aid, as manifested in two enactments of the Legislature (sessions of 1888-1889 and 1890-1891) each appropriating $50,000 toward the construction of an addition to the present building, has made it possible for the Academy to practically enter upon a scheme of enlargement, and the close of the present year sees completed the " connecting museum " which is to unite the existing building on Logan Square with the main edifice fronting on 19th street, the early erection of which is anxiously looked forward to.
This main structure, the completion of which will mark an epoch in the history of the Academy, will cover a surface area of approximately 23,000 square feet, and nearly treble the available space which the institution now has.
The total cost of this structure is estimated, from plans already drawn and approved, at about 8200,000, toward which the Academy has now in actual funds and subscriptions, conditional and otherwise, upwards of $80,000 (including the last State appropriation of S50,000.)
The generous interest of the citizens of Philadelphia, who have always regarded with pride the foremost institution of the kind in this country, encourages the hope that sufficient will be added to this amount during the coming winter to permit the Academy, through the Board of Trustees of the Building Fund, to contract for the construction of the walls and roof immediately on the opening of the building season.
This is earnestly to be desired, and it is hoped that no eflfort will be spared to attain this end.
It should be noted that the foundations for the entire edifice have already been laid.
The connecting building which has just been completed contains the new lecture theatre, with a capacity of 500, and a museum hall, well adapted to an exposition of synoptic natural history.
For the present, and until further accommodation is afforded, it will be used to display a " State collection " — a collection illustrative, so far as it is possible in the restricted space which is offered, of the natural resources, principally geological and mining, of the State of Pennsylvania.
The acquisition of a hall designed specially for the delivery of lectures is of importance to the Academy, as it permits of that attention being given to one department of the workings of the institution w^hich its limited accommodation has thus far rendered all but impossible.
Heretofore all the lectures prepared under the auspices of the Academy have been delivered in the Library Hall or in one of the east rooms prepared specially for class purposes.
The various uses to which it has been found necessary to put the latter room, has ultimately thrown all the lectures into the Library Hall, much to the discomfort, at times, of the special workers and students in the Library, and always to the disadvantage, through lack of adaptability, of the lecturer and his audience.
The large attendance at some of these lectures — and equally so at some of the regular stated meetings of the Academy when communications of special interest have been announced — has demonstrated the deficiency of seating capacity, and members as well as visitors have sometimes been obliged to forego the proceedings for want of room.
This disadvantage the new lecture hall will rectify.
Constructed in the form of a theatre, with raised platforms and gallery, it is well adapted to the wants of an average audience.
The additions to the Academy's collection made during the year are of unusual importance, and it is gratifying to be able to report that they cover about equally all departments.
The renewed activity which has manifested itself in certain departments which have, for some time back, been in a condition more or less stationary augurs well for a period of prosperity, and it is not too much to hope that this period will be one of the most promising in the history of the institution.
Special attention is in this connection called to the report of the Conservator of the Orinthological Section, ]\Ir.
Witmer Stone.
From this it appears that the Academy has added to its already vast collection of birds upwards of 1200 specimens, many of them now for the first time represented in 32 the museum.
The thauks of the Academy are specially due to Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads, who has generously given upwards of 900 birds, representing the avi-fauna of the southern United States from Florida to California.
To the members of the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, an organization of energetic students recently founded for the prosecution of orinthological studies, the Academy is also under obligations for the gift of a superb collection of nests of Pennsylvania birds, numbering 60 pieces; these nests are taken with their accessories, and thus illustrate a full scheme of avian architecture.
With the sanction of the Academy the Orinthological Section has issued circulars asking for the establishment of a permanent endowment fund for the more efficient management of its department; the substantial response which this effort has already met with encourages the belief that before long the full subscription asked for — $25,000 — will be received.
In the department of conchology, which continues to be the most fully represented of any in the Academy, and which still takes rank as the first of its kind in the world, the work of classification and rearrangement progresses with the usual vigor, thanks to the labors of the Conservator, Mr. H. A. Pilsbry, and of his coworkers, members of the Conchological Section and of the American Association of Conchologists.
The specimens added during the year are comprised in 1710 trays, so that the total collection of shells, now exhibited, numbers 62,700 trays.
The work of the American Association of Conchologists in bringing together a complete and select collection of the moUusca, recent and fossil, of the United States, is being rapidly pushed forward, and there are already represented in the new series 334 genera and 751 species, contained in 921 trays.
The following statement from the President of the Association, Mr. John H. Campbell, outlines the work of the organization : " The formation of the collection has met with the most enthusiastic support of the members.
Freely contributing specimens, they take a pride in sending only such shells as will do credit to the Association, and it is their confident expectation that before many years the collection will be the finest special exhibit of natural history specimens in America, if not in the world.
It already contains several types of new species, many fine examples of species of which the Academy's general collection contained only poor or inferior si:)ecimens, and by the addition of the fossil to the living species, it introduces a new feature into American museums.
The life history of the American mollusca may be traced from the earliest known forms to the living species, as the collection approaches more and more toward completion. "
The donations to this collection are from 52 collectors, whose names appear in the list of additions to the museum.
The departments of entomology and botany continue to profit by the valuable services of their special Conservators, Dr. Henry Skinner and Mr. John H. Redfield, who, as in past years, contribute their work gratuitously, for the benefit of the Academy.
To these gentlemen a debt of gratitude is due for the great amount of tinie wdiich they give to the care of the special collections under their charge, and for their efforts to obtain new material for them.
In this connection also the Curator-in-Charge would refer to the services of Mr. Thomas Meehan, who for years past has assiduously labored toward increasing the Academy's herbarium and supplying the rare botanical works needed for the study of the plants, himself contributing extensively from his own private purse.
The appended list of donations to the herbarium indicates the satisfactory condition of the department of botany.
The additions to the collection of minerals have been somewhat less important than during past years, partly due to the fact that the collections have been steadily nearing completion, thereby rendering it more difficult to procure desiderata, and also to the protracted illness of the Conservator of the Wm.
S. Vaux collection, Mr. Jacob Binder, which has prevented that attention being given to the collection which it would otherwise have received.
The regular Academy collection of minerals continues to receive attention from Mr. W. W. Jefferis, the Conservator of the Mineralogical Section, and from others associated with that Section.
The accessions in the departments of geology and paleontology are referred to in the report of the Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology.
It may not be amiss, however, to refer in this place to the acquisition by the Academy's ^Yest Greenland Expedition, among other geological material, of a large mass weighing 260 pounds, and of four smaller masses of the famous Ovifak iron, tellurite or meteorite, the nature of which has given rise to so much discussion among chemists and geologists.
The largest mass, while very considerably smaller than either of the three blocks which were secured by the Swedish Government in 1871, exceeds in weight by some fifteen pounds, the Nordenskjold specimen deposited in the British Museum.
No analysis of the Academy's stone has as yet been made, although numerous requests for permission to make such examination have been received.
A more detailed, although as yet only preliminary, sketch of the operations of the West Greenland Expedition has been submitted to the Council, and is appended as a special report.
In departments of the Academy other than those that have been specified, the work of arranging and cataloguing has been steadily, though not rapidly, progressing; this work, under the direction of the Curator-in-Charge, has been in the main carried out by his assistant, Mr. J. E. Ives, to whose efforts, also, and to the liberality of Mr. F. Stearns of Detroit, the Academy is indebted for most valuable additions representing the invertebrate (echinoderra and crustacean) faunas of the Japanese and West Indian Seas.
Much new material has also been brought from the latter region by Mr. William J.
Fox, Avho, in the interests of .the Academy, spent a month in tlie early part of the year on the island of Jamaica.
Attention has been called in the last report of the Curator-inCharge to the deficiencies in the Academy's collection of recent mammalia, which is still, if we except the cabinet of archaeology* the weakest department of the museum.
Thanks however, to the liberality of the Philadelphia Zoological Society, through the Superintendent of the Gardens, Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, new material is being constantly obtained, much of it of a kind which it would be difficult to duplicate.
The osteological collection, which is already the most extensive in the country, is thus being rapidly increased, and it is hoped that before long it will be sufficiently complete to permit of its being separated into a " type " series, similar to the famous Hunterian Collection of the Royal College of Surgeons in London.
Apart from the donations which have been received from the Zoological Society, the department of mammalogy has been enriched by a series of skulls of the larger African quadrupeds, from the region of Mount Kilima 'Njaro, the gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott, a member of the Academy, who is at present ex[)loring the northern wilds of India.
Among these skulls are a number of rare types of antelopes.
The most important accession of the year to the department of mammalogy, is the complete skeleton of Sibbald's Avhale (Bakeiioptera Sihbaldii), obtained from a carcass, 68 feet in length, stranded on the New Jersey Coast on October first.
To the good will of the Mayor and Town Council of Oceau City, assisted by the generosity of Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, the Academy is indebted for this very rare and valuable specimen, the only one of the kind in thi.= country, and one of four specimens contained in the museums of the world.
This is the first recorded occurrence of the species in American waters.
The specimen in question has been made the subject of study by Prof Cope, who has contributed a paper on its structure and peculiarities to the Academy's " Proceedings."
The general routine work of the Curator's department has been conducted as in previous years, no broad departure of plan or method having been considered necessary.
The entire collection of alcoholics has been examined, and it is a pleasure to be able to state that less than a half-dozen removals have been found necessary.
It is well to call attention to the defective condition of the roof of the museum, which allows of the accumulation of moisture in the walls, and a penetration of the same into some of the wallcases, thus rotting the labels and otherwise disfiguring the specimens.
It has, indeed, been found necessary to empty a few of these cases, and the contents of others would be removed were there space for their arrangement elsewhere.
Repeated attempts have been made to repair the defects of the roof, but the form of construction renders it difficult to do so effectively.
The increasing leakages, combined with the heavy cost of the repairs, make it probable that a new roof will have to be provided before many years.
Specimens for study have been loaned during the year to Dr. G. Baur, of the Clark University, Worcester, Mass.
; to Mr. Chapman, of New York ; to Dr. G. Brown Goode, of Washington ; and to Profs.
W. B. Scott and H. F. Osborn, of Princeton.
The Curatorin-Charge reports the loss of two specimens of the chelonian Cinosternum Pennsylvanicum.
The Board of Curators as it was constituted at the time of the preparation of the last annual report, had been in existence since the latter part of 1883, a period of seven years.
The removal of one of its members, the President of the Academy, Dr. Joseph Leidy, who occupied the position of Curator for a continuous term of forty-four years, and whose death took place on the 30th of April last, left a vacancy in the Board, which was filled by the election (June 2d) of Dr. Henry C. Chapman.
It is needless to comment upon the loss to the Academy which the death of its late President and Chairman of the Board of Curators entails ; it is sufficient to say that no one had been for a longer period of time actively identified with its interests, and no one has added greater lustre to the galaxy of names with which the history of the institution is illumined.
Respectfully submitted, Angelo Heilprin, Curator-inCharge.
report on the operations of the west GREENLAND EXPEDITION.
As leader of the auxiliary party which accompanied the Academy's North Greenland Expedition to the Arctic Regions, I respectfully submit the following preliminary report of operations : The combined Expedition, under direction of Civil Engineer Robert E. Peary, left Brooklyn, N. Y., on the steam-w^haler " Kite " June 6th, arriving at Sidney, Cape Breton, on the 11th of the same month.
After shipping 183 tons of coal, in addition to a remaining 144 tons, the "Kite" headed for the coast of Greenland via the Strait of Belle Isle, entering the early ice of the Strait, off Greenly Island, on the loth.
On the 19th the ship left the " pack," and sighted the coast of Greenland, somewhat southwest of Cape Desolation, on the night of the 23d.
Godhavn or Disco was made on the 27th, and Upernivik on July 1st.
No pack ice of any consequence was met with until a position about opposite the Devil's Thumb (Lat.
74° 40') was reached, late in the afternoon of July 2d.
From this day until the 23d, when we had attained a point somewhat westward of Cape York, the Expedition Avas virtually powerless in the grip of the ^Melville Bay ice, and it was only by dint of hard ettbi't that it succeeded in making the North Water.
It was during one of the many attempts to force a passage through the ice that an unfortunate accident, the breaking of the right leg, befell Mr. Peary (July 11th).
The accident was not considered at the time of such a nature as to materially interfere with the pi-ospects of the Expedition.
The entrance to Inglefield Gulf, where Mr. Peary had anticipated establishing his winter quarters, was reached on July 24th, but the i)resence of a continuous ice-sheet prevented entry, and after due consideration a site was selected on the south side of McCormick Bay, just north of Murchison Sound, in approximate Lat.
77° 43' N. This Bay communicates with the North Water, and is considered one of the most advantageous sites for wintering on the north coast.
It is in the midst of a region where game in one form or another is abundant.
After the virtual completion of Mr. Peary's winter house, the party immediately under my charge, consisting of Dr. Benjamin Sharp, Zoologist-in-Charge, Dr. W. H. Burk, botanist.
Dr. W. E. Hughes, ornithologist, Dr. J. F. Holt, zoologist, Mr. L. M. :\Ienge], entomologist, Dr. R. N. Keely, surgeon, Mr. Frazer Ashhurst and Mr. Alex.
Kenealy, turned southward, firing the final salute at 5.30 A. M. of the 30th.
On the southern journey much delay was occasioned by fogs and storms, which interfered largely with the operations of the Expedition.
Little ice, beyond freely floating or grounded icebergs, was met with in the traverse of Melville Bay.
Cape York was left at midnight of Aug. 3d, and Wilcox's Head, south of the Devil's Thumb, sighted about noon of the 5th.
That Avhich occupied us three weeks on the northern journey was thus accomplished in about thirty-six hours on the return.
The passage of the Waigat, north of Disco Island, was made on the 8th and 9th of August, and Godhavn reached early on the 10th.
On August 23d the last day of the contract with the agents of the " Kite," the vessel steamed into St. Johns, Newfoundland.
A margin of but a few tons of coal was left on arrival.
The stopping places of the Expedition in Greenland were: Godhavn, Ovifak (southern shore of the island of Disco), Moder Bay (east shore of the same island), Kudlisaet (north shore, on the AVaigat), the Swarte Huk (opposite Skalo Island), Upernavik, the Duck Islands, Cape York (a few miles to the east of the actual cape), Saunders Island, ISTetlik (the Eskimo settlement on Barden Bay), Herbert Island, and the two shores of McCormick Bay.
Collections were made at all of these points.
It is as yet impossible to estimate the scientific results of the Expedition, but a cursory examination of the collections that have been brought back encourages the belief that considerable material that is new to science has been obtained, while the bulk of the collections is new to the Academy's museum.
Briefly summarized the collections are approximately as follows : Department of Ethnology : — 1 Eskimo skeleton, 22 Eskimo crania, 2 Eskimo kayaks (one from the region of Cape York,) 2 Eskimo sledges, and a variety of implements, utensils, etc., mainly from the tribe of the Arctic Hisrhlanders.
Vertebrate Zoology.
— 2 young (white) seals — stuffed, 2 Skulls of seals, 1 Polar bear skull, 2 Walrus skulls, 1 Reindeer skull, 1 Bluefox skull, 1 54 specimens of birds, and a collection of eggs.
Marine Zoology.
— Specimens obtained in dredgings and otherwise — not yet classified.
Entomology.
— 444 specimens, exclusive of those collected at Cape Breton, distributed as follows: Hymenoptera 25, Coleoptera 4, Diurnal Lepidoptera 106, Moths 143, Diptera 166.
A number of these, as reported by the Conservator of the Entomological Section, are new to science.
Botany.
— A nearly complete collection of all the flowering j^lants, mosses and lichens found in the region.
Geology.
— A full suite of rock specimens from all points touched by the Expedition.
Noteworthy among these is one of the large iron-stones (meteorite or tellurite) from the famous region of Ovdfak, weighing approximately 260 pounds.
While a pygmy in comparison with the giant stones which were secured at the same spot by the Swedish Government in 1871, it is yet considerably larger than the well-known Nordenskjold sj^ecimen in the British Museum.
The interest, which from their peculiar construction, attaches to these stones, no less than their exceeding rarity in collections, makes the specimen an exceedingly valuable one to the Academy's museum.
The Expedition was further successful in finding a number of other fragments and blocks together aggregating several pounds in weight.
It should be noted that no case of serious illness occurred on the Expedition.
Respectfully submitted, Angelo Heilprix, Leader of the West Greenland Expedition A. N. S. REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
During the year 1891 this Section has held eighteen meetings.
Three new members have been admitted : Miss Mary Schively, Mr. Amos.
P. Brown and Mrs. Elizabeth S. Bladen.
The following ofiicers have been elected to serve for the ensuing year: Director, ..... Dr. Benjamin Sharp.
ViceDirector, ..... John C. AVilson.
Recorder, Harold Wingate.
Treasurer, Charles P. Perot.
Conservator, ..... Dr. George A. Rex.
Corresponding Secretary, .
.
.
Dr. Charles SchiifFer.
Very respectfully submitted, Harold Wingate, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE COXCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
Since the last aunual meeting of the Section, specimens have been received from forty-nine sources, to the number of 1710 trays and bottles, a detailed list of which Avill be found in the " Additions to the Museum."
In no year since the acquisition of the A. D. Brown collection in 1887, have there been added so many species new to the Academy, more than 800, or nearly one-half of the total number of additions, being species new to us, and between thirty and forty are species new to science.
Most of the latter have been described in the Manual of Conchology, the Proceedings of the Academy, and the Nautilus, during the year.
The more interesting accessions are the series of East Indian land shells purchased by the Section, comprising all of the known species of several genera of Helicidre and Cyclophoridte, and nearly all of many other important genera, such as Hypselostoma, Diplommatina, Diaphora, Arinia, Opisthosthoma, etc.
Our series of freshwater shells from the African Lake Tanganika has been almost completed by purchases and donations during the year, only a few species and varieties being still lacking.
Through the libei-ality of Mr. Frederick Stearns the number of our Japanese marine shells has been greatly augmented, and several interesting new forms have been figured and described in the Proceedings of the Academy and the Manual of Conchology.
Dr. H. von Ihering, of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, has presented thirty-four species of South American Uuionidaj which, with two or three exceptions, are new to the collection.
Mr. Anastasio Alfaro, Director of the National Museum of Costa Rica, has sent to the Conservator an interesting collection of eighty species collected by him in Costa Rica.
Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sidney, N. S. Wales, has presented twenty -five species of land shells from Australia, and through Mr. S. R. Roberts, rare species of Cyprese and Marginella.
Our suites of Australasian shells have also been increased by exchanges and gifts from a number of correspondents,.
Mr. C. T. Musson, forty-one species ; Mr. S. W. Wright, twenty-six species, Mr. Chas.
Hedley, and others.
Our suites of American shells have been greatly increased by donations from a large number of correspondents of the Conservator^ but more especially by the collections of the American Association of Conchologists.
This collection, formed entirely by members of the Association, and constituting an exhibit of mollusks of the United States only, now occupies nine large table cases.
762 trays of specimens have been added during the year, representing nearly as many species.
The officers of the Association, John H. Campbell Esq., President, Mr. John Ford, Yif^e President, and Mr. C. W. Johnson, Secretary, take entire charge of the mounting and labelling of these specimens.
More space is already urgently required for this exhibit, and this need is the more imperative because many species in this collection are being exhibited for the first time.
The regular series of American fresh-water shells of the Academy being for the most part in drawers, frequently several tiers of trays deep, and consequently very difficult to consult.
More space for the display of the Oriental Helices and the Bulimi is also needed.
These groups are now in unsightly and inconvenient heaps on account of the lack of case-room.
This confusion could be partly remedied by the use of shallow trays for the drawers, in which a large number of small species could be arranged.
This plan has been very successfully adopted by the Conservator in the disposition of several thousand trays of Clausilia, Pupa and Cylindrella ; and the members of the Museum Committee earnestly recommend that forty or fifty large drawer-trays be procured for the reception of the species of Stenogyra, the smaller operculates, the geographic suites of American Helices and a portion of the Auriculidje.
This will give room for the proper arrangement of the Helices and Bulimi during another year.
Of the current numbers of the Manual of Conchology four parts of each series have been issued since the last report.
The families Acmseidse Lepetidae, Patellidse and Titiscaniidfe have been monographed, and in the second series the groups Geotrochus and part of Cochlostyla.
The specimens of each group have been identified and relabelled.
The Conservator has been much assisted by INIrs.
Pilsbry, who has neatly mounted the sj^ecimens presented and studied during' the year, over three thousand five hundred trays in all.
Mr. Campbell and other members of the Museum Committee have also rendered valuable aid in the Museum.
Respectfully submitted, H. A. Pilsbry, Conse^'vator.
REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
Much interest has been taken in the work of the Section during the year.
The meetings have been fairly well attended, the highest number present at any one meeting being fifteen and the lowest seven.
Verbal communications of interest have been made by a majority of the members and reported in the monthly issues of the Entomological News.
Nearly four hundred books and pamphlets have been added to the library, some of which were purchased, the majority, however, being either donated or received in exchange.
The collections are all in fairly good condition, much work having been done on them by the Conservator and the members interested in the several orders.
Many valuable additions have been made to the cabinet, in all about 1369 specimens.
The most important additions were received from the Greenland Expedition and from Mr. W. J, Fox who presented much of the material he collected in Jamaica.
Rev.
Dr. McCook presented a valuable and accurately named collection of European Ants which will be very useful for comparison.
Many specimens were received through the agency of the Entomological News which is published by the Section with the financial aid of the American Entomological Society.
Volume two of this journal, consisting of two hundred and fourteen pages with ten plates, has been completed.
It has steadily grown both in size and circulation and during the coming year twenty-four j^ages will be published each month, and each number will be illustrated if possible.
At the meeting held December 14th, 1891, the following were elected ofiicers to serve during the coming year : Director, Geo.
H. Horn.
Vice-President, I. C. INIartindale.
Recorder, Henry Skinner.
Conservator, Henry Skinner.
Publication Committee, .
.
.
.
| ^^^r^ LaSt.
Henry Skinner, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
Tlae Vice-Director of the Botanical Section has pleasure in reporting that the growth of the Hebarium, which it has been a satisfaction to record in former years, still continues, as is shown by the statement of the Conservator hereunto attached as part of this report.
Stated meetings have been held regularly during the year, and many matters of interest to botanical science introduced, some of which have appeared in the publications of the Academy, The Section is out of debt and with a balance in its treasury.
The officers for the ensuing year are: Director, .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. ViceDirector, Recorder, Cor.
Sec.
and Treasurer, Conservator, Thomas INIeehan.
Charles Schuffer, M. D. Isaac C. Martindale.
John H. Redfield.
Respectfully submitted, Thomas Meehan, Vice-Director.
Conservato7''s Report for 1891.
— The Conservator of the Herbarium in presenting his report for the year closing November 30, is enabled to congratulate the Academy and the Section upon the improved condition, constant growth and increasing usefulness of its botanical collections.
The accessions during the year have kept pace with those of former years.
The total number of species of Phanerogams and vascular Cryptogams received has been 2,496.
Of these, 721 species were new to the Herbarium, representing also 72 genera new to us.
605 species are North American, 1,518 are from tropical America, and 373 from the old world.
Of the lower Cryptogams, we have received, Mosses, 171 species; Hepaticie, 40 ; Algse, 120; Lichens, 27; Fungi, 201 ; in all 559 species, which, added to those above mentioned gives a total of 3,055 species.
In the "Additions to the Museum" will be found the usual detailed list, but we may here specify some accessions of special interest.
Prof. Eovirosa has continued his explorations of the flora of the Mexican provinces of Tabasco and Chiapas and has sent us 209 species.
Mr. Pringle's collections in the northern provinces of Mexico have contributed 291 species.
The collections made by Dr. Thomas Morong in South America during the years 1888 to 1890 have furnished us 350 species, including many new and rare species from the desert of Atacama — and others are on the way.
Prof. Leopold Krug, of the Royal Botanical Museum of Berlin, has sent us 446 West Indian species, most of them from Porto Rico, and many of them new to science.
John Donnell Smith of Baltimore, has made a second contribution of Guatemalan plants amounting to 161 species most of them collected by himself.
The Academy's Expedition to Greenland, under the charge of Prof. Angelo Heilprin, furnished 80 species of phanerogamic plants, besides some Lichens.
Frank S. Collins of Maiden, Mass., has presented 120 species of marine Algse from the coasts of Xew England and of California ; and a very complete series of the Sphagnacese of New England consisting of 28 species and 88 varieties and forms, named by Carl Warnstof, has been contributed by Edwin Faxon and Edward L. Rand.
The plants received have been carefully poisoned and the North American si:)ecies, with most of those from tropical America, have been mounted.
Heretofore the exotic portion of the Herbarium has received but little of this latter attention, so essential to its permanent preservation, but this year the Academy has enabled us to make a beginning, by supplying the necessary mechanical aid.
Several large collections received in years past, such as the Menke Herbarium, the Lea Herbarium and others await similar treatment and incorporation, but cannot receive it until new quarters shall afford us the necessary i-pace.
The various separate cryptogamic collections received during the Academy's long existence, should be consolidated, excepting the published exsiccake, which it would be better to retain in library form.
As this must be a work of time, a temporary index to the species in each division, is of great importance.
Dr. Eckfeldt has given us this aid in regard to the Lichens, and Dr. Ida S. Kellar is now engaged in preparing for us this necessary key to our several collections of marine Algse.
May we not hope for an early completion of similar work upon the Mosses, Hepaticse and Fungi ?
Respectfully submitted, John H. Redfield, Conservator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
• The meetings of the Section with the Academy have been held regularly every other month during the year, in addition to which several distinct meetings have also been held.
The attendance has not been large in numbers, the membership of the Section being quite small, but the interest has been considerable and the additions to the cabinet, while not as great as in some former years, have been satisfactory.
The Director regrets to say that there do not seem to be many of the younger members of the Academy interested in mineralogy and geology, so that the membership instead of increasing has decreased.
It is proposed during the spring of 1892 to inaugurate a series of excursions, which it is hoped may serve, not only to interest the members, but also to so attract the attention of others not members that they may be induced to become such.
Respectfully submitted, Theo.
D. Rand, Director.
REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Ornithological Section was formally organized Sept. 14th, 1891, permission having been previously granted by the Academy.
The primary objects in organizing the Section were the encouragement of ornithological study at the Academy and the improvement and enlargement of its ornithological collections.
The collection numbering some 30,000 specimens is one of the finest in the world, and is probably the best general collection in this country, while the large number of type specimens makes it extremely valuable.
The arrangement of the collection is, however, still in accordance .
with the ideas of forty years ago.
That is to say, nearly all the specimens are mounted and crowded into exhibition cases, where they are not only exposed to light and dust but are very inconvenienD for study.
Until within the past year or two no provision has been made for a collection of skins such as constitutes the most important part of all the great ornithological collections of to-day.
In consideration of these facts it seems of the greatest importance that the large series of duplicates which now crowd the museum cases should be unmounted, leaving of course enough specimens to illustrate all the various types of bird life, as well as a collection of all the species of North American birds in their different seasonal plumage and a complete series of the birds of Pennsylvania and New Jersey with their nests and eggs.
The specimens that are unmounted can be placed in air tight cases of drawers where they will be easily available for study and forever safe from the ravages of insects or exposure to the light.
The specimens retained in the museum, on the other hand, can be remounted where it is necessary and the old stands can be renewed or repainted.
The exhibition series thus improved will undoubtedly prove much more interesting and instructive than the maze of specimens which is now exhibited and w^hich tends to coiifuse the general visitor.
The space gained by the removal of the duplicates will enable the wall cases to be dispensed with and the amount of light obtained in the gallery will be thus greatly increased.
The plan outlined is the one that has been adopted in all the large museums and is everywhere heartily endorsed.
During the present year part of the North American collection has been renovated in the way above described and the improvement in its appearance is at once appreciated by those who visit the museum.
In addition to the remounting of 900 specimens of North American birds the Conservator has during the past year identified and catalogued the specimens of Icteridae contained in the museum numbering 460 specimens and, with the assistance of Mr. Wright, has about finished the cataloguing of the Cairebidae.
The catalogue of the mounted collection now reaches number 3920, the familiesthat have been previously catalogued being the Corvidse, Paradisseidse, Oriolidte, Dicrurid?e, Campophagidse, Muscicapida; and all the families of Raptores.
The collection of skins has been steadily increasing.
Starting in 1888 with the collection of Dr. W. L. Abbott it now numbers upwards of 5000 specimens.
Of these 2213 have been relabelled and catalogued and the labelling of the remainder will soon be completed.
The cases in.
which this collection is contained are overcrowded and additional ones are greatly needed to accommodate the new specimens which are received, as well as the duplicates which it is desired to remove from the exhibiiion cases.
The additions to the ornithological collection since the organization of the Section have been considerable and many of them of great value.
The most important acquisition is the collection of birds of Florida, Texas and Arizona presented by Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads.
These specimens, numbering over 900, were collected by Mr. Rhoads during April, May and June, 1891, on a trip through the south and west.
Mr. Rhoads took especial pains to obtain specimens of such species as were not before contained in the Academy's collection, and through his efforts the North American series is now much more nearly complete than ever before.
In addition to the presentation of this valuable collection Mr. Rhoads has arranged with collectors in the west to furnish desirable specimens to the Academy and has in many ways advanced the interests of the Ornithological Section.
The West Greenland Expedition brought back a collection of 160 specimens of Arctic birds collected by Drs.
Wm.
E. Hughes and Benjamin Sharp.
These included representatives of 33 species many of which are of great interest.
Mrs. J. L. Claghorn presented a collection of African and Asiatic birds numbering 30 specimens among which were several rarities.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club which, by permission of the Academy, has been holding its meetings in the building, has given a collection of beautifully preserved nests of Pennsylvania and New Jersey birds numbering 60 specimens.
The eggs accompany most of the nests and there are also several artistically mounted groups of birds.
It is the intention of the Club to add to this collection from time to time until it shall contain specimens of 1891.J 505 the nests and eggs of all the birds of this vicinity together with finely mounted groups of the birds themselves.
Among the other specimens received were 18 Florida birds purchased from W. S. Dickinson, 45 specimens of California birds from R. B. Herron and 8 specimens from N. and S. Carolina as well as various specimens presented by Mrs. E. B. Chamberlain, I. N. DeHaven, Everett Palmer, I. C. Martindale, Dr. S. G. Dixon, and the Philadelphia Zoological Society.
Shortly after its organization the Section issued a circular soliciting subscriptions to an Endowment Fund to ensure the permanent welfare of the ornithological collection, the idea being to devote the interest to the employment of a special Curator and to the acquiring of additional specimens.
A portion of the sum has already been subscribed and it is hoped that the sum of $10,000 which is wanted for immediate use Avill soon be raised.
As already mentioned the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has held its meetings in the Academy during the ])ast year.
This has had the effect of drawing the ornithologists of this vicinity to the Academy and awakening an interest in the growth and welfare of its ornithological collection.
At the annual meeting of the Section held December 21st, the following officers were elected : Director, ...... Spencer Trotter, 'SI.
D. ViceDirector, Recorder, Secretary, Treasurer, Conservator, George S. ]Morris.
Samuel N. Rhoads.
Charles E. Ridenour.
Isaac C. Martindale.
Witmer Stone.
WiTMER Stone, Consey-vator.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports that the collections in his charge have undergone no material change, beyond increase, since the preparation of his last annual report.
The lack of room, from which all departments of the Academy about equally suffer, has prevented any attempt being made toward placing the entire collection into systematic sequence, an arrangement required by the extensive additions of the last few years^-nor will there be any opportunity for so doing until the completion of the new building.
Much of the material, probably not less than one-fourth, is stored away in drawers, and is in a measure inaccessible.
This applies more particularly to the foreign collection, mainly English and French, among which are to be found a large number of the " types " of the earlier geologists and paleontologists.
It is needless to comment upon the value of this series and the importance of placing it where it can be readily reached by the student and specialist.
The paleontological material obtained by the Academy's Expedition to Mexico in the early part of 1890, to which reference has been made in the last annual report, has been placed in the museum cases.
It forms the basis of two papers by the author, which have been published in the "Proceedings" of the Academy: — "The Geology and Paleontology of the Cretaceous Deposits of Mexico," and " Geological Researches in Yucatan."
The material from Yucatan is the first of any consequence that has been obtained from that section of Central America, and establishes the existence in that region of vast Pliocene deposits, synchronous with and representing those of the southern part of the peninsula of Florida.
The usual spring course of lectures in the department of the Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology has been delivered as in previous years (excepting 1890), the lectures, 25 in number, being attended by a class of 35 students.
Respectfully submitted, Angelo Heilprin, Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND ARCHEOLOGY.
The Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology submits his annual report upon the course of instruction and the condition of the collections in his department in 1891.
The lectures delivered by him were six in number, free to the public, illustrated with maps and diagrams.
The topic treated was the Ethnology of Modern Europe.
The attendance was large, and a general interest in the subject appeared to have been fostered.
The collections in this department have not been materially increased during the year.
The American Philosophical Society has withdrawn its deposit of the Peale collection.
It is believed, however, that as soon as adequate space is provided for the display of objects in Ethnology and Archseology, they can readily be obtained from members of the Academy and their friends.
D. G. Brintox, Professor of Ethnology and Archceology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that he has presented a collection of Anellides, Mollusca and Crustacea collected by him in the Mediterranean, as well as some trays of shells collected in the Caribbees.
During the past year he delivered six lectures on the " Principles of Zoological Philosophy " and one on the " Volcanoes of the West Indian Group," most of which were illustrated by lantern slides.
It is proposed to give a course on general zoology during the coming spring.
Having been appointed Zoologist-in-Charge of the West Greenland Expedition, he spent two months collecting on the shores of North Greenland, a small part only of the collection having as yet been presented.
This part consists of the Crustacea, which were collected by himself and Dr. W. E. Hughes, the ornithologist of the Expedition.
The additions to the museum during the past year have been important.
Several have been received from F. Stearns of Detroit, Mich, including some new (type) species of Cirripeds andBrachiopods described in the " Proceedings" by H. A. Pilsbry.
The Echinoderms collected by W. J.
Fox in Jamaica has been presented.
A fine series of Asterias vulgaris from Maine, have been received from Dr. S. G. Dixon.
Respectfully submitted, Benjamin Sharp, Professor of Invertebrate Zoology.
508 [1891, The election of Officei-s, Councillors and Members of the Finance Committee, to serve during the year 1892, was held with the following result: — .
Isaac J. Wistar.
Kev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D. Thomas Meehan.
Edward J. Xolan, M. D. Benjamin Sharp, M. D. Isaac C. IMartindale.
Edward J. I^olan, M. D. AV.
S. ^y.
Ruschenberger, U. D. H. C. Chapman, M. D. S. G. Dixon, M. D. Angelo Heilprin.
President, .
Vice-Presidents, .
Recording Secretary, .
Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, .
.
.
Librarian, Curators, Councillors to serve three years, Finance Committee, J. Bernard Brinton, ]M. D. Theodore D. Rand, Gavin W. Hart, Geo.
H. Horn, :\r.
D. Chas.
P. Perot, Chas.
Morris, Chas.
E. Smith, Gavin W. Hart, Uselma C. Smith.
