CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE-HISTORIES OF PLANTS.
NO.
VI.
by thoma.s mkeiian.
On the causes affecting variations in Linaria vulgaris.
Few subjects more deserve the attention of thoughtful students of biology than the extent of variation aside from the conditions of environment.
Instructive papers bearing on evolution are continually appearing, the full value of Avhich is impaired by the passing suspicion that the authors have not fully perceived how great is the innate power to vary, independent of any external influences.
That environment or surrounding circumstances have considerable influence on the production of new forms may surely be admitted without detriment to a profound belief that very much more is due to a tendency to change implanted in the organism, the laws governing which the keenest scrutiny has hitherto been baftled in the effort to detect.
It is possibly from this confession of ignorance, that the advocates of change by environment have gained so much strength.
He who has something tangible to please us, has more power than he who has to confess that he does not know.
These of us who Avould not have conceded as much to environment as is frequently claimed for it, can only insist that change is evidently going on in order, and evidently in accordance with a regular plan, — while if all claimed for environment were conceded to be sound, it would subject change to the mere chapter of accidents ; and the harmony, and the exact dependence of one thing on another, which everywhere prevails, could scarcely exist.
It ha.s been my fortune to have to show that in many cases where variations have been charged to crossing by foreign pollen, or by other " conditions of environment," it was extremely probable that the sole actor in the Avork was this unkno"\ra law of change ; while I have shoAvii in many monotypic species, or in species removed from all p(jssilDility of intercrossing mth other species, that the variations are quite as wide as if there had been full op])ortunity for the supposed laws of environment to operate.
Here I will call attention to the interesting variations any one may find in an hour's walk among Linaria vulgaris, the common yellow toad-flax, in any district where the conditions are absolutely identical, and the plant tolerably abundant.
Let one gather in the walk any specimen that seems to be slightly different from another, and he will be amazed on comparing the handful, to note how great the difference.
The foliage does not vary much, but some of the most divergent flowers might j^ardouably be referred to distinct species, did not the intermediate forms show that they were all of one family.
There are variations in color and in form.
In color, some are pale straw, and others deep yellow, while the palate varies from deep orange to the faintest possible tinge of yellow.
At times nearly all the corolla, except the palate, is white instead of the normal tint, and again are forms in Avhich only the backs of the two upper segments are Avliite.
But the most interestiug variations are in the form of the lower lip.
This is trilobed.
Sometimes the lateral lobes are so broad as to overlap each other, when the central lobe seems hardly noticeable.
At other times, they are so widely separated that the trilobed character is noticed at a glance.
In some instances the central lobe is scarcely produced, in others it is large and broad, extending to the line of the lateral lobes.
What has environment had to do with these widely variant forms?
The most diverse will often be found in proximity where no one could suggest any difference whatever in the surrounding conditions.
It is an introduction from Europe, and has no close allies that any one could name as likely to influence its poUination.
Indeed, if these were present, they Avould be inoperative as the plant is here, and probably everywhere, a close breeder, as I noted years ago.
The pollen sacs burst before the corolla o])ens, scattering the fertilizing dust over its stigma which is evidently influenced thereby before the wind or msects have had any chance to operate.
The flowers can gain no advantage from any outside agency, usual Avith those where insects have some opportunity to bring in foreign pollen before it is too late.
Aside from all this is the fact that the plants in any one given locality, but a few years ago sprang from possibly one, or at most a few progenitors, which, introduced by accident from Europe, escaped the cultivators destructive hoe, and then spread, through its progeny.
There seems no escape from the deduction that the plant derives from some pre-natal influence power to vary greatly, without any regard to the long periods of time sometimes called for, and wholly independent of external influences.
1891.]
natural sciences op philadelphia.
271 On the Self-Fertilizing Character of Composite.
Lepaehys pinnata.
— The proposition originally, I believe, presented by me, that all plants abundantly fertile are arranged for self-pollination, and are really self-fertilized receives its best illustration in Composite.
It is rare that a floret capable of producing fertile akenes, proves barren.
When I presented some years ago this natural order of plants as an illustration of this principle it was asserted by the late Professor Gray and others, that in many there were bi-lobed stigmas, the lobes being closed when the pistil pushed up through the pollen of the staniinate column, and that the inner surface — the stigmatic surface — did not receive the flower's own pollen, but had to receive it from \isiting insects, or it fell on each floret of some earlier opening flower.
The very production of the ray florets, was regarded by these justly eminent men as to be compared to signal flags unfolded by the flower for the chief purpose of attracting insects.
When it was shown that the flowers of composites invariably produced seeds, though fine netting excluded the insects usually supposed attractable by the "signal flags," namely thrips, found in so many flowers in abundance, were charged with the duty of cross fertilization, notwithstanding the proposition, Avell put by Mr. Darwin, that the fertilization of one flower by another on the same head was, practically, self-fertilization.
It was left to me to show by easily tested observations on flowers having a marked contrast of color between the pollen and stigmatic surface, that the pollen tubes entered by the clefts in the closed bi-lobed stigmas, and that usually pollen grains on the closed lobes fell in on to the stigmatic surfaces when the expansion of the lobes took place.
The object of this brief chapter is to add to the list of these easily noted self-polhnating, and I may say, self-fertilizing species, Lepaehys pinnata Gray.
The long showy rays make magnificent " signal flags," but no one can see otherwise than that the large and showv orange pollen grains, get the chance to pollinate the brownish stigmas before any insect, not excepting thrips, can possibly have a chance to do the "work.
Bidens frondosa.
— In this plant we have an arrangement by which the visits of insects are prohil)ited.
The retrorsely sharp barbed teeth of the akenia are longer than tlie florets, and insects could not rest on tlie heads without feet or wings getting entangled in these sharp barbs.
It is assumed that the teeth have been produced in the barbed condition to provide ingeniously for the distribution of the seed.
Certainly the barbed condition does materially aid in such distribution.
And it might be contended that in the evohition of distril)uting agencies, the efibrt has lieen so vigorously successful as to interfere with the assumed effort in plants to avoid self-fertilization.
But whether the arrangement is or is not, especially provided to insure self-fertilization, it is clear that this is the result.
It cannot be said that Bidens frondosa has in any way suffered by ages of pure in-and-in breeding.
Aside from the seeming difficulties in the way of an insect's visit to the flowers through the protective presence of these barbed points, the author has for the pa.st two years, taken frequent opportunities to note whether such visits are actually made, without seeing one instance.
It is true bees and other honey-seeking and pollen-gathering insects usually continue at work on one particular species if at all abundant, neglecting for the time being, others equally deserving their attention.
It does not follow that bees continually avoid a flower they may seem to be neglecting to-day.
It is, however, scarcely probable that the author should not sometimes find bees visiting these flowers, if there was any disposition to do so.
On this day, Oct. 4th, very few flowers are left, the floral season having nearly terminated.
The occupants of my neighbor's large bee-farm are busy trying to profit by these last blooms of the season.
A large tract under my observation is densely covered Avith Aster puniceiis L. and A. puniceus vimineus Gray, the common Mexican weed Galinsoga parviflora Cav., Solidago ulmifolia Muhl., and our Bidens.
But though in some instances, especially in the case of the Galinsoga, the branches of Bidens intertwine Avith the others, the bees neglect them.
We may be justified in assuming that Bidens /rondosa L. is not only so arranged in the structure of its florets that foreign pollen cannot l)e ertective, but that, through the structure and position of the l)arbed teeth of the akenia, insect visits do not occur, and are rendered impracticable.
On the Structure of the Flowers in Dipteracanthus macranthus.
Dipteracanthus macranthus (Nees), in gardens under the name of Ruellia macrantha (Mart.
), should, as a true member of the genus, have the limb of the corolla " sub-equal. "
Two of the five divisions are, however, smaller than the others; and, with a little more effort.
might have been hi -labiate.
The fact is interesting as suggesting some other consideration.
In many bi-labiate acanths, the two smaller lobes form the upper portion of the flower ; the three larger, the lower.
In this species, and the species of some allied genera, the pair of smaller lobes form the lower portion of the flower.
Examining the buds in an early stage, it may be noted that they are indifferently turned, — some having these smaller lobes uppermost, and some with them beneath.
These buds, at first greenish, change to purplish eventually, and when the}' reach this stage, the tube twists in the case of those Avith the upturned smaller petals, while those in -which they are lower from the first, do not twist.
Thus in the end, by the twisting of the tube in one case, all the flowers eventually have the two smaller sections low^erniost.
It may be stated as a broad proposition that it is so essential to the true character of this species that the smaller lobes should be lowermost, that when the accident of early formation turns them upside down, the flower will twist its tube to regain the position which we are compelled to regard as its natural one.
It is surely worth considering why it is so necessary that the flower should occupy a position which is exceptional among plants of the order, and to discover if possible, the mode by which the flower is brought to this exceptional position.
This very large flower attords good opportunities for studying the construction of its several paits.
The slender tube is 1 2 inches long, the stamens extend two inches beyond the tube, while the limb of the corolla is fully three inches.
In many flowers the union of the primary parts out of which a monopetalous flower is theoretically composed is so thoroughly concealed that the superficial observer Avould not suspect the primary gamopetalous condition morphology teaches.
Here, however, the strong veins of the primary structure remain, rendering it evident that the parts Avere really separate, and that the act of nnion Avas a subsequent event.
We also see that though the stamens usually ajipear to groAV out of, or to be borne by the corolla in Acanthaceous plants, in this species, though attached to the lower portion of the corolla tube, they are really a separate monadelphous set of four, become free from the tube eA'entually, and coritinuing for some distance into the limb of the flower, its monadelphous state.
We may pause here for a moment to reflect that a petal, transformed from a leaf as it is, loses its vigor in proportion to tlie completeness of that transformation.
A true leaf will live say three or four months, but "when transformed as a petal it will die in that many days.
When the separate parts in the same flower undergo different degrees of transformation, the parts retaining most of the original leaf vigor will out-grow and control the least vigorous.
Returning now to Dipteracanthus we see that the two lower segments have lost, in a great measure, the venation characteristic of the three upper ones.
The power to act as leaves would act, is more strongly i-etained by the three upper than the two lower.
They have had no difliculty in retaining the upper position — or as we generally say, though possibly inaccurately — the most favored position towards the light.
AVe can therefore explain that in the process of transformation from primary leaves to petals, two were arrested earlier than the others.
These, continuing a little longer their growth as leaves, were able to get the upper hand of the others, which were transformed earlier.
AVe may now see pretty clearly how the flowers of the Dipteracanthus macranihus are constructed on this peculiar plan — can we as readily tell why f Let us examine first from the standpoint of the speculations so prevalent regarding the relations between winged creatures (insects and birds) and flowers.
The flowers, like those of numerous Acanthaceous plants, secrete an almost fabulous amount of nectar as the blossoms are about to fade.
The large open limb of the bright purple corolla must be very attractive to humming birds, or to those longtongued insects capable of reaching through a tube an inch and a half in length.
Unfortunately the stamens are so compactly arranged around the style, that one can scarcely conceive of any creature's tongue getting down to the sweets ; and when, as in half the flowers, we find the tube twisted as a cork screw, we must see that nature has had no thought at all for arrangements to accommodate the winged visitors.
If we adopt the views I have advanced in many papers, and which I believe I may claim as essentially my own, that in any system of nature where some creatures are dependent on others, and recognition of these separate classes severally by others an essential condition of existence, variations in nature must, in a great measure, have been provided for the mere sake of recognition.
In the " struggle for life " some means must exist by which to distinguish friends from foes, if for no other reason.
It is not necessary, therefore, with my views of the interdependence of things, to look into every variation or peculiarity of beliaviour, as related to a supposed benefit to the plant in the struggle for life.
I doubt whether there is any special reason for the behaviour which results in this beautiful species, except the necessity for infinitive variation.
As I remember, other Acanths present similar conditions to that described in this species, but I have confined this chapter to it through having it now before me.
It Avas to teach the lesson as much as to describe the interesting condition of things.
Aerial Roots in Vitis vulpina.
Some one sent to Professor Asa Gray, in 1863, some aerial roots of the Scuppernong grape, and received a reply from him that the intSresting fact had not been before noted.
He advised the collector to send a note of the fact to the author of this paper, which, with Dr Gray's letter, was done.
The author could only say that it was a fact as new to him as to Professor Gray, though it was not unusual to see aerial roots from the main stems of the European grape when under hot-house culture.
The subject seems not to have again attracted attention.
Recently a coil of these roots brought from the South and presented to the Academy by Joseph Walton, of Woodbury, Xew Jersey, showed that these aerial roots were not wholly annual as in the hot-house grapes referred to, but were three years old at least.
They w'ere several feet in length, and forked at the apex of each annual growth.
Thus a three-year old root consisted of six branchlets from the original rootlet.
This is interesting from the fact that in the more familiar cases the aerial rootlets are annual, to wit : in the Poison Vine, in Ampelopsis, and English Ivy.
These well-known rootlets will, however, become permanent when occasionally finding rich material to penetrate.
Josiah Nicholson, a correspondent of Joseph Walton, residing in the vicinity of the grape vines, states that many of these roots die annually, and he knows of none that have gone down from any distance and reached the earth as the Banyan and Mangrove do.
An acquaintance of Josiah Nicholson's says that when a vine with these rootlets falls to the ground, they will enter the earth, but not by their tips, but by new rootlets from the surface of the older ones.
There will naturally be inquiry as to the function of these aerial roots.
The question has never been answered by the growers of the grape under glass.
The grape vine has never been found to be the better or the worse for their production.
In the case of these wild vines, the rootlets not reaching the ground, are probably functionless.
It is conceded that in })lants, as in animals, habits once contracted become hereditary and continue long after the causes which produced them have ceased to exist.
If the ancestors of the grape were geotropic, the stems, rhizome-like, creeping along the ground and rooting from the nodes, l)efore the tendril-climbing habit was formed, we could say with some certainty that the aerial rooting habit now occasionally seen, is the remains of the early habit not yet wholly obliterated.
It is indeed probable that the ancestors of the grape were rhizomatous or creeping, and that the present stem of the grape vine, now elevated by the tendril-climbing habit, in former times was supported by the earth alone.
Additional Note on the Order of Flowering in the Catkins of Willows.
At p. 267 of the Proceedings of the Academy for 1890, I noted the curious fact that in the male aments of willows the stamens develop from the center of the catkin first, and that growth follows upwards and downwards simultaneously from that point.
This season I have extended my observations to other species I had not before examined, with the same result.
It is probably the rule with all willows.
I had not noticed the behaviour of the female aments till this season.
It is well worth noting that this rule does not prevail in them, at least in three species, all I could examine.
Here the stigmas appear mature simultaneously over the whole ament.
No reason for this difference in character between the male and female aments suggests itself.
Self-Fertilizing Flowers.
A long list of flowers which cannot use their own pollen has been placed on record, as well as of plants that depend on insects or outside agencies for the use of their own pollen.
There are also flowei's which, capable of using their own pollen in a late stage of anthesis, are so constructed, as regards the relative maturity of stamens or pistils, that they may be fertilized by foreign pollen before being able to use their own.
The records of all these make important material for philosophical strictures.
The author of this paper has performed his own share in this work.
It is a continual thought with him, however, that the facts which bear on self-fertilization deserve equal prominence.
It is a line in which there seems to be few workers.
The following additions to others already recorded are offered, not because cases of absolute selffertilization are unfrequent, but because a study of these particular instances developed other facts of interest in the study of plant life as Avell worth recording as the mere fact that they are self-fertilizers.
Symplocarpus fcetidus.
— So much has been said of the relations between insects and flowers, — even a structure so peculiarly arranged as the skunk cabbage, Symplocarpus fietidiis, being claimed as an illustration of some close relation — that I devoted a half-day of the 22nd of February to a thorough examination of plants growing in the Avoods and swamps within a short distance of my residence in Germantown.
I gained some facts in addition to those recorded in the chapter on this plant in my " Flowers and Ferns of the United States," vol.
I, series 1., p. 57 et seq., 1878.
It was there shown that the sexual character of the plant is variable, and that the hermaphrodite condition, as distinguishing the genus and its allies from their monoecious relatives, was a very slender line.
A difl^erence was noted in the relative maturity of stamens and pistils.
Sometimes the stamens matured before the pistils, or, technically, the flowers would be proterandrous, at others the pistil matures days before the stamens, when the flowers are proterogenous.
At that time I thought, as the result of the examination of a few flowers each season, that this difl^erence was caused by the peculiarities of the season.
The result of the examination of many flowers on the afternoon mentioned shows an almost equal number of both forms.
Both thus existing at the same time and under the same conditions of temperature, the circumstances being in fact exactly the same, shows the difference to be of an innate character, and tending towards unisexuality.
Indeed, so far as one may be justified by analogy in similar cases, and in the absence of an accual test by marking the plants and waiting for results, we may risk saying of the species that it is dioecious.
If this be not the case, it is certainly tending towards dioecism.
In the one case the pistil pushes through the perianth, extending a full line beyond, and is capped by its beautiful head of stellate hair.
No sign of the stamens is visible, though the pistil has evidently been protruded for several days, as it has lost the little globule of moisture that envelops it on its first appearance.
In the other case, the swelling anthers part the perianth segments, and exhibit the apex of the pistil nestling among the anthers.
Finally the apex of the pistil, in company with one stamen, is protruded barely beyond where the pistil remains, but the stamen continues until the whole of the comparatively large anther extends beyond the perianth.
The other three stamen's follow the next day.
Certainly on one plant are flowers in w'hich all the stamens are in advance of the pistils, and are very vigorous, while on other plants the pistil is in advance and comparatively strong, differences which in other species are associated w'ith fertility or infertility, or, as we say, render the plants practically dioecious.
These conclusions are reached in face of the fact that they render the problem of fertilization still more difficult of solution.
Akhough the dry pollen Avould indicate an aneraophilous species, the manner in which the spathe is coiled around the spadix must render it next to impossible for the wind to be a material agent in carrying pollen to separate plants.
As for insects, though I have seen a few flies on exceptionally warm spring days aiaong the flowers, and other observers have noted similar insect visitors, these visits can be far from as general as we must demand before we can assign them any important part in a system of cross-fertilization.
On the whole of the afternoon of Feb. 22nd, though they were the special object of the afternoon's search, the thermometer indicating 52° Fahr., no winged insect of any kind was seen.
I cannot think that either insects or the wind have any material agency in fertilizing these flowers.
As, however, I know that some plants in the vicinity of the examination bear an abundance of seed, the probability is that some individuals have flowers in which perfect hermaphroditism prevails, and that these are self-fertilizing.
The great variation in the color and form of the spathes and spadices of this plant has been often noticed.
It is worthy of remark, however, that through all the changes, the striped and splashed character of the tints remains.
The spathe may be either almost Avholly yellowish-green, or purple, there will generally be strise of one or the other color splashed over the surface.
In one case a flower was found with a double spathe, as is occasionally seen in the common garden Calla, Hichardia Africana.
The explanation given in the latter case is that the flower stem is but a consolidated mass of leaf-stalks, in which the blades of all but 1891.]
279 the white spathe have been suppressed.
There is no reason, therefore why these suppressed blades should not occasionally appear.
The case of Symploearpus shows the inflorescence to be also formed by the consolidation of several leaves, of which a second l)lade has been advanced though usually suppressed.
This is the first case that I have heard of, but there is no reason why they should not be oftener found if looked for.
It may not be out of place to repeat what I have already noted in the chapter above cited that the flowers are odorless, the foetid smell being given off only when the leaf or stem is broken.
These facts were again confirmed on this occasion, showing the speculations that have been offered concerning the "carrion like odor" of the flowers as an attraction to carrion flies, to be, like many similar speculations, figments of overwrought enthusiasm.
Portulaca pilosa, L. — This is everywhere classed as an annual except by DeCandolle (Prodromus 3, p. 354) where it is classed as either annual or biennial.
Among a collection of dried specimens brought by my wife from Punto Gorda, Florida, in the winter of 1887, I found a specimenwith life and planted it in a flower pot, where it has continued to grow and flower annuallv.
Xow four years old, it seems likely to live for an indefinite period.
Its flowers open only, according to all authors before me, under bright sunshine, and then merely for a very brief period.
De Candolle says it opens only between ten and twelve.
Don, hoAvever, (Ed.
of Miller, Vol.
Ill, p. 74), notes that this is only true of days when the sun is out.
Engelmann, " Plantse Lindheimerianfe p. 155," observes that in bright sunshine it opens from 9 to 11 or 12, and at the same time notes that the neighboring P. Gilliesii Hook., originally from Chili, common in cultivation, opens from 8 or 9, to 2 or 3 P. M. in sunshine.
My plant has never been set in bright sunshine, and thus the flowers which are produced abundautlv and seed freely, have never opened.'
They must of course, be arranged for self-pollination, or they could not seed so perfectly.
Opening only in bright sunshine in their country, and no one flower opening twice, a large number of those growing in their natural places must of necessity also be close-fertilized.
The inquiry which these facts suggest is whether the chance for cross-fertilization could have been much of an object in nature in the arrangement for the opening of the flowers.
It is a well known fact, that of the immense number of seeds produced by any one plant of any kind, but a very small number escape the chapter of accidents and reproduce a plant, [f cross-fertilization were so desirable, it would seem that the flowers should have a better chance for efifecting it than the brief period of daily opening, and limited, at this, to the few moments bright sunshine afll^ords.
As the facts stand, the greater proportion of seeds in this species are the product of close and not cross-fertilization.
To this fact we have to add that the expanding flowers do not seem to my mind to favor cross-pollination.
The seed is most probably from close-fertilization in the expanded as well as in those which seed without expanding.
I placed on record, Gardener's and Landsteward's Journal, 1845, that the stamens o( Portulaca grandijiora—a, mere form probably of P. Gilliesii — were irritable, and in 1878 (Proceedings of Ac.
Nat.
Sciences, 1878, p. 332) that the stamens of the common Purslane, are irritable also.
Close observations have frequently been made on these flowers, because of irritability of a precisely similar character in Opuntia and other Cactacese.
But in none of these observations has there been any suggestion of design or adaptation to cross-])ollination by inject or other agency.
The leading object of this paper is not, however, to show the relation which the behaviour of these flowers bears to speculations on cross-fertilization, but to point out in how many particulars the character of some Portulacacese resembles some Cactacese."
A large number of the latter open only for a single day, and for a few hours, under sunshine, during that day.
In my experience a lai'ge number 1 Aubrey H. Smith, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1867, p. 18, notes that the flowers on the introduced plants near Philadelphia, had " fruit imperfectly developed."
The undeveloped flowers probably created this impression.
I have little doubt but that later the seed would have been found abundant and perfect.
* See also paper on this subject, Proc.
Ac.
Nat.
Sciences, Phila., 1883, p. 84. never expand their petals, and the sexual organs are well {protected from wind and from insects, but seed just as well.
The bulk of the seed certainly, if not the whole probably, are tl,ie result of closepollination.
Again we have the resemblance in the irritable stamens, in the succulence, and many other characters.
It is fair to assume that both families have had a close derivation, and if we would search for the object of nature in so limiting the duration and period of opening and yet with a resulting productiveness, we should probably have to look back in the past to some necessity common to both families, and which does not exist at the present time.
Ciiphea Zimpani.
— Observing that with scarcely an exception the flowers of the annual species of Cuphea were fertile, I Avas led to look for the evidence of self-fertility in C. Zimpani in bloom in my garden, and found that it was so arranged that the reception of any pollen but its own was evidently impossible.
An examination of the tlower soon after the expansion of the limb would lead to the inference that it was arranged for cross-pollination.
The two bearded stamens are abundantly polliuiferous, while it is evident by the thick bearded mass below that the communication between stamen and pistil is completely cut oif.
Between the two large upper petals, however, the calyx forms a sort of sheath, down which an insect in search of honey, and not gifted with the tube-splitting habits of the humble-bee, would no doubt thrust its proboscis.
It would be natural to suppose an insect thus examining a flower, would carry pollen to the next.
But an examination of this sheath will show that the stigma cannot be reached in this Avay.
That and the four other anthers remain coiled away in a nest of downy hair, which is at once the cradle and the grave of both.
A more perfect adaptation for self-fertilization is seldom seen.
Daphne Cneoram.
— Though I have seen this under cultivation for half a century, I have never known it to produce a seed.
The flowers seem well arranged for self-pollination.
The mouth of the tube is efiectually closed by four anthers abundantly polliuiferous, and the next day the second series of four below, also burst their sacs.
The exposure of pollen is simultaneous with the expansion of the limb, and it seems next to impossible that foreign pollen should reach the stigma.
The short style and stigma at the base of the tube seem perfect, but I have never been able to detect any pollen on the stigma.
It is highly gelatinous and does not separate readily from the anther-cell.
It looks as if it might be necessary 19 for an insect to carry the pollen to the stigma, aiding in self-pollination as in Yucca and other plants.
The tube is too long for the honeybee, and the humble-bee slits the tube even before the flower opens, thus wholly avoiding contact with the stamens.
It may be that in its native places self-pollination is aided by long-tongued lepidoptera, but this suggestion places the plant at a disadvantage in the "struggle for life" as it cannot travel as a self-fertilizer does. "
He that fights, and runs away.
May live to fight another day," does not apply to a plant, which cannot run.
Lopezia coronata.
— That Lopezia coronata Andrews, a Mexican Onagracese common in cultivation, is a self-fertilizer, I am confident from the fact that every flower is fertile, and this is equally true of plants growing in green-houses where insects and currents of air are wholly excluded, as when growing in the open air.
But I have been baffled in endeavoring to ascertain how the flowers own pollen, or the pollen of a neighboring flower, which, as is well shown by Mr. Darwin, is practically the same thing, reaches the stigma.
To one who had not been assured of self-fertilizatioii from the actual facts, the flowers ■would seem as perfectly arranged for cross-pollination as it is })ossible to be.
In the early stages of the bud, before anthesis, the large single anther is introrse.
It is sheathed by the blade of the petaloid stamen, and its own filament sheathes the style.
At anthesis the connective twists, and the anther turns its back on the style.
The anther cells burst at once, and some of the pollen undoubtedly falls on the apex of the style.
The stamen soon recurves, until the face of the anther rests upon one of the sepals.
At this time, however, the first day of opening, the apex can scarcely be called a stigma, for it is not till the second day that the globular, capitate, and capillate head, properly deserving of the name of stigma, is developed.
Looking at the relative positions of stamen and stigma at this period, and when the latter might be regarded as in receptive condition, one might readily conclude it impossible that the flower could be individually self-pollinated.
The next day the fading sepals and petals coil upwards and enfold the style and stigma.
Whether the pollen which falls on the immature apex of the style at anthesis remains there till the stigma matures, or whether the pollen which has been scattered over the petals and sepals is brought up when the fading petals incurve may well be a question.
Possibly, as before noted, its falls from the flower above.
Certainly pollination is not effected by insect agency, and the chief point of this chapter is to show how error may creep in by mere speculations on the arrangement of the parts.
Here is a ca.se where one might well believe the arrangements were nicely adapted to pollination by insect agency, when in fact the plant in some way not clear, but certainly, is self-fertile.
284 [1891.
ON PAKAMELACONITE, AND THE ASSOCIATED MINERALS.
BY GEORGE A. KOENIG.
On his recent visit to the Copper Queen Mine at Bisby, Arizona, Dr. A. E. Foote obtained possession of two specimens showing crystals, which he could not associate with any known species except Anatase.
The locality and association, however, speak strongly against the presence of that or any other form of the Titanium dioxide.
These specimens have since passed into the collection of Mr. Clarence S. Bement who has kindly permitted me to examine and study them.
One of these specimens has been deemed of sufficient im})ortance to be represented in the adjoining figure as a whole, to show the relation of the associated minerals.
It is drawn to natural scale.
We see as the central figure a monolithic crystal (A) lying flat upon the supporting surface, but so that the pyramidal termination is entirely free and symmetrically developed.
To the left there are three more pyramidal crystals of the same kind, but of smaller stature.
These crystals are characterized by the most brilliant metallic adamantine luster, and purplish-black color.
The crystals stand in relief against a back ground of minute acicular crystals of deep blue color (B).
Upon the crystals are patches of a beautiful light greenish or silvery-white substance, which have not been individualized in the drawing, as color only could bring them out properly.
The nature of both these substances will be discussed below.
Uuder (C) are represeuted small, brownish-black niamillie of limonite, shown in section at (D), exhibiting a distinct radial structure.
This layer of limonite passes rapidly into a granular mixture of limonite and cuprite (E) of brownish-red color and in this we see imbedded at (F, 0) crystals of native copper.
Since ■we find both blue crystals and silvery patches on the large crystals, the genetic relation appears as follows, E, F & D, C, A, B.
The second specimen is about 3x4 inches in size.
It looks as if it had formed at one time a part of the same large slab of which the first specimen is a fragment.
Some twenty odd beautiful crystals like (A) but of smaller size, not over 2 inch in length, are either lying flat or stand erect upon the mamillar}' mixture of limonite and cuprite.
One large blue crystal (B) and several bundles of the same are stretched across the black crystals.
The latter are covered in part, mostly upon the strongly striated faces with the gi^eenishsilvery substance mentioned above, which coating produces the impression of a patina on dark bronze.
1.
The black crystals.
— Symmetry.
The habitus is strongly tetragonal.
Each crystal represents uniformly a combination of (001) (111) (110).
The plane (001) is very generally square, sometimes a narrow oblong.
The pyramidal faces are broad and smooth at the apex, but are invariably striated parallel to the main plane of symmetry.
The luster is so strong on these planes, that one easily overlooks this striation ; but it shows with a small magnifying power.
One or two pyramidal faces are usually broader than the others.
In one of the measured crystals one face is 4 mm., two 2 mm.
; one 1 mm.
The horizontal edges are generally the .resultants of combination of pyramid with prism.
I have noticed, however, in a few crystals these edges formed by pyramidal faces alone.
The habitus and color of these crystals strongly resemble that of the black or blueblack Anatase.
All this might be deceptive, however.
To determine the symmetry three crystals were measured, two of the larger (20 mm.)
one verv small one (2 mm.)
Whilst the faces are very splendent, the striation causes multiple images, sometimes of equal luminosity, and sometimes a mere shredded spectrum.
Descloizeaux's artifice of covering the faces gave only a partial relief.
It seems to be safest, therefore, that I record here the reflection images observed, and give my readers the opportunity, as well as the means, to decide whether my interpretation of the observed facts is, under the circumstances, the correct one.
In the following figure 2, I have reiiroclueed the observed images obtained from the two larger crystals : T "W" T 1 •"niniiKW I If f «" I' ' "" nil" 'Mipr "s ■?
"s"= yuf'j'tl^one iA"?
Z ■"JpHf.. ^-^^----fSZ'-^7 Fig.
2.
The inspection of this figure seems to allow but one interpretation, to wit that the symmetry is tetragonal and that the angle (001) : (111) = 58° 50'.
Now we have for Anatase according to V. Kockscharow (001) : (101) = 60° 38' a diflference of 1° 48'.
Does this mean isomorphism of the two species ?
The Anatase of some localities shows only one pyramid but the cleavage is parallel to this pyramid and it is made the fundamental pyramid for this reason.
I have not been able to trace any cleavage planes in the crystals under discussion.
Neither basal nor pyramidal nor prismatic.
This seems to oppose the notion of isomoi'phism.
Assuming the observed pyramid as (101) then the primary pyramid follows with 66° 58' 12" and C = 1-6643. against C = r7799 in Anatase.
I have taken, of course, V. KockscharoAv's value, because I obtained from a very fine Brazilian anatase (Mr. Bement's collection) for the basal edge.'
43° 20' (Koenig.)
(43° 24' V.
Kockscharow.)
Groth bases his C value 1*7344 (Tabell.
Uebers.
3 Aufl.)
on a much larger anffle.
The hardness of the miueral on the smooth basal plane wa* found equal to that of Apatite.
The color on the faces is purjjlish-black, on the fi'acture pitch-black.
The fracture is uneven, to flat eonchoidal.
The luster is brilliant metallic-adamantine.
The substance is opaque.
The streak is black.
The specific gravity was found at 20° C = 5-833.
The determination made with 0-8487 g. in Pyknometer.
The entire crystals, weighing 1-132 g., gave on Jolly's balance two readings, of which the above is the arithmetic mean.
Unless crystals, weighing at least 3 grs.
be used, the values derived from Jolly's balance are not sufficiently reliable, according to my experience.
In a strong oxidizing flame, a spUnter of the mineral is rounded at the edges.
In reducing flame, melts easily and yields metallic copper.
With the fluxes a blue glass in O fl.
Dissolves in HCl Avith a yellow, in NHO' with a blue color.
With NHXHO) a very slight brown precipitate.
A prehminary analysis made with 48*2 mg. gave CuO =^ 46-1 Fe'"0* = 2-0.
It is evident in this instance that the iron does not belong to the mineral, as the greater part of it was left undissolved l)y dilute nitric acid as a brown red, scaly powder, therefore, probably Hematite.
The material used in determining the specific gravity was crushed in a steel mortar.
It was then seen that the material was not homogeneous.
Whilst the large bulk was black, there could be seen three red spots.
They denoted the presence of cuprite, which, of course, Avas not strange since the mineral sits on cuprite.
It was not thought advisable to remove this admixed cuprite mechanically.
But if really the mineral is CuO, then the analysis nuist give an excess if Cu'O be present.
0-2031 gr.
gave 0-2045 Cu'S.
0-0014 Fe'^Ol CuO = 100-58 Fe-'O' = 0-64 101-32 Here is then an excess of 1-32, which is Oxygen, and this corresponds to 11-8 of Cu'O.
The substance of the crystal would thus appear to be a mixture of CuO = 87.66 Cu^'0 = 11-70 Fe'O^'^ 0-64 100-00 It is a matter of very common observation that large crystals enclose bodies of a different nature, sometimes even force them to participate in the mass arrangement of the predominating molecule.
I can find nothing which suggests a process of alteration of either Cu'^0 into CuO or the reverse.
There is neither metamorphosis nor pseudomorphosis in this case.
The black crystals belong substantially to what mineralogists have heretofore called Melaconite or Tenorite.
The latest crystallographic work on the form of Tenorite — Melaconite is by Ernst Kalkowsky (Groth.
Zeitschr., Vol.
3, p. 279).
This author shows by a recalculation that the angular values obtained by Jentsch (Ann.d.
Phys u.
Chem., Vol.
17) on the crystallized oxyde of Copper occurring as a furnace product at Freiberg, must be considered as identical with those of Maskelyne (Report British Association, 1865) on very minute crystals from Lostwithiel.
Jentsch was mistaken in assuming its orthorhombic svmnietry ami isomorphism Avith Brookite.
But while Maskelyne finds the crystals from Lostwithiel as well as the thin lamellae from Vesuvius to be mono symmetric, Kalkowsky comes to the conclusion, on optical ground, that they are really asymmetric although closely approaching the monosymmetric type.
Groth (Tabell.
Uebersicht, 3 Autl.)
has adopted this view, in so far as he puts an interrogation mark after the word "monosymmetric" and gives the explanation referred to, in a note.
He evidently does not believe in an isometric form of CuO, — which Dana adopts (System of Mineral, Edition 5) on the authority of J. D. Whitney.
The latter had found (Rep. L.
Sup., 11-99) cubo-octahedrons of CuO and contended that they were original and not pseudomorphs on the ground that Cuprite was only observed at the same locality in unmodified octahedrons.
Such an argument can hardly be sustained.
For the cubo-octahedral combination is very common in Cuprite from nearly all known localities.
Among some magnificent specimens recently come from the " Copper Queen Mine " I noticed cubo-octahedrons, although the majority of the specimens showed the combination (Oil) (001) (111) 1891.]
289 (122).
Unless some more convincing testimony be produced, we are justified in discarding the isometric symmetry as pertaining to CuO.
Thus we have only the monosymmetric or possibly the asymmetric system left for the species Melaconite or Tenorite.
Aside from all ])recedent, the tetragonal crystals are so unique in their appearance, that they should be accorded the rank of a very distinct species, and the name Faramelaconite is proposed for them.
Among the Melaconite in the collection of the Univemty, there is a specimen with the locality " Arizona."
It has been in the collection over twenty years, before the Copper-Queen Avas located, and very probably is not from Bisby.
It is a middle-grain sandstone impregnated with minute black crystals.
A similar specimen is in ^Ir.
Bement's collection.
I had never examined it critically before, surmismg that the form would be the same as that described by Maskkelyne.
I find that these minute crystals, observed with a magiiif}^ing ])ower of 250 diam., show the same habitus, combination, luster and color as the tetragonal crystals fi-om the Copper Queen.
There are thus two localities on record for the occurrence of Faramelaconite.
2.
The blue aeicular crystals.
Footeite — a chloro-oxyhydrate of copper.
— The material to work on was very scant.
Dr. Foote sent me ])roken off cr}-stals from which I was enabled to pick out about 25 mg. of pure material, with which quantitative examinations were made.
It was not deemed advisable to disfigure the beautiful sf»ecimen (fig.
1) for the sake of more material.
None of the crystals \\eigh over 1 mg.
They are either simple or twins.
The simple ones represent six sided prisms with pyramidal terminations.
The obHque character of the latter is usually Avell marked.
When examined yviih a })ower of 150 diameters, it was found that the most comj)lex combination is that represented in fig.
3. ni = 't = F n = OO T> d = oo 5 P = F CO II =, CO r X) d wtui observed only in two crystals ; n is mostly quite small ; in and o are always present.
The habitus is often tabular, parallel to the plane of symmetry.
A p: p =49° (131°) A — : -^ = 36r (143r) ^^ m p ^ -^ V — : J= 33° (147°) op These measurements are of course only approximate (being made under the microscope) — the crystal lying on face II.
The plane of optical extinction encloses with edge p:p an angle of 7*°.
Positive.
The system is, therefore, clearly monosymmetric.
The twins are either simple like the common form in Selenite, that is composition face ao Poo rotation 180° ; or two such simple t\vins perforate each other at right angles with the vertical axis common to both.
These form then combinations like those of Harmotome.
The broken offends of such twins show the re-entering angles indicating the existence of a basal cleavage.
Heated in a closed tube, a crystal turns black, without losing its shape or even its luster and yields three sublimates.
The uppermost is water, the middle one is gray, the lower one green, after cooling.
The colorless flame takes the characteristic blue and green colors, Avhen a crystal is brought within its borders.
On charcoal the same color phenomena, no smell of arsenic.
The tests for sulphuric and phosphoric acids result negatively.
For the quantitative analysis onl}^ 16'5 mg. were available.
This material was placed without pulverizing it, in a mixture of Ag NO' and dil.
XHO' and digested at about 50°C.
The crystals turned white at once and were gradually converted into veritable pseudomorphs of AgCl after the original mineral.
They were then broken up, to make sure that a complete decomposition had taken places.
AgCl was then filtered upon a 20 mm.
filter.
From the filtrate the excess of Ag was removed BaCl" added and allowed to stand over niglit.
Then filtered.
Ba removed and Cu precip.
by H^S.
The precipitate was dark brown-black.
No arsenic present.
The filtrate boiled, made ammoniacal, filtered, and to filtrate MgCP added.
No precipitate.
Absent P"0^ The weights obtained were : Ag = 3"5 mg ; ashes from BaCP precip.
= 0"2 mg. CuO = 11*8 mg ; ashes with C'^O^ = 0"1 mg. From these figures is deduced the percentage composition.
CuO =63-7=-8-121 CuCP = 13-5 = 1-00 \ Molecules.
WO = 22-8 = 12-6 j 100-0 Hence 8 [Cu (OH)'^] CuCP + 4 ffO.
Footeite has, therefore, as its nearest relative the Thallingite of Church.
In the latter the ratio of Cu (HO)' : CuCl'"' is 4 : 1.
3.
Malachite, asbestiform.
— It would have been impossible to get enough material with which to identify the peculiar greenish silvery coating from the malaconite specimens.
Fortunately there Avas another specimen of mixed limonite and cuprite, the entire surface of which had such a coating.
Here we find it like the finest lint in the depressions of the specimens.
The crystals of which this lint-hke material is composed, are not fa.^t to the sui-face on which they lie.
With the least touch, whole flakes are detached ; but even a big flake will barely weigh one milligram.
ITnder the microscope, the composing crystals can be seen to be needles, tabular, parallel to the clinopinacoid and showing in fact a habitus like tlie crystals obtained from a boiling solution of calcium sulphate.
Each one individualized is light greenish in color and polarizes strongly.
The silky metallic luster and wliite color of the flakes must be o\N-ing to interference phenomena.
Brought into a colorless flame, the flake turns shining black and fringes the seams of the flame yellowish red like calcium salts.
Neither blue or green colors are visible.
The mineral does not contain chlorine.
No sulphur present.
I managed to get~10 mg. of the clean material ; that is to say with 150 diameters I could distinguish a few brown particles of cuprite-limonite only.
This quantity gave Ignition at beginning of cherry-red heat 3-0 mgs.
Fe'^0' 0-1 mg. CuO 6-9 mg. 10-0 The above composition is exactly that of malachite, and all would be satisfactory if it wei-e not for the color of the flame, for which I can find no explanation.
MEXICAN GRASSES.
BY F. LAMSON-SCFvIBNER.
I.
Species Collected in 1890, by Mr. C. G. Pr ingle.
1.
(3447).
Tripsacum fasciculatum Trin.. Aschers.
in Bot.
Zeit.
1877, p. 525: Fouru.
Mex., PI.
Enum.
(jram., p. 69.
Ledges, San Jose Pass, fifty miles northeast of San Luis Potosi.
August 15.
2.
(3135).
Erianthus saccharoMes Mx., var.
Trinii Hack, in Mart, et Eichl.
Flor.
Bras.
II, Pars 3.
].. 25S.
Nodes witli a ring of short appre.ssed hairs, pruinose or shining below.
Panicle about 30 cm.
long, its base (in our specimen) included in the uppermost leaf-sheath, the blade of which is very narrow and about 10 cm.
long.
Pedicels about f as long as the spikelets, thickened above, long pilo.se.
Sessile spikelet 6 mm.
long, outer glume shortly bimucronate ; first glume 2-keeled, scabrous on the keels above, 4-nerved, pilose on the back ; second glume scabrous on the keel near the apex and with a few long hairs on the back below, 5-nerved, ciliate on the iuflexed, hyaline margins ; fourth glume lanceolate, ciliate on the margins above, two-toothed ; awn about 9 mm.
long.
Anthers r-5-l"8 mm.
long, falling from the spikelets.
Styles as long as the stigmas which are exserted at maturity.
The dull white color and length of the panicle, its base enclo.sed in the sheath of the uj^permost leaf, the hairs upon the outer glumes, the hyaline and ciliate inflexed margins of the second glume, and the ciliate margins of the fourth, ail point to Erianthus Trinii Hack.
(Monog.
Androp., p. 135), but the exserted styles and length of the anthers — characters used to sejiarate E. Trinii from E. saccharoides by Hackel — point to the last named species.
These characters are doubtless variable and do not deserve to have so much value attached to them.
After having made a very careful study of the material in my herbarium in connection with the descriptions given by Hackel (Monog., pp.
129, 135) of E. saceharoides and E. Trinii, I fail to find any valid character among those given to define these species, which is not broken down or lost in the descriptions given of the several varieties or subspecies enumerated.
I have, therefore, preferred to regard it as only a variety.
E. saceharoides var.
contortus (made a subsjiecies by Hackel) has, I think, better or stronger claims to rank as a species than has E. Trinii.
Mountain sides, Tamasopo Canon.
June 24.
3.
(3132).
Rottboellia compressa, Linn.
fil.
Supjil., ].. 114, var.
fasciculata: Hack.
Monog.
Androp., p. 286.
Hetnarthria fasciculata Kunth.
Revis.
(xrain.
I, p. I.j2 : Foiirn.
!Mex.
PI.
Enuni..
(Irani., p. 67: Vapev Contr.
U. S. Nat.
Herb, ir, p. 58.
About ledges of a ca.scade at the head of Taniasopo Canon in the mountains midway between San Luis Potosi and Tampico.
June 24.
4.
(3134).
Andropogon condensatus Kunth.
in HliK.
Nov. Gen. T. ji.
188, var.
paniculatus Hack, in Mart, et Eiehl.
Fl.
Bras., Vol.
II.
pars 3, p. 297 : .Monojr.
Androp., p. .388.
A. paniculatus Kth., .'^.
Lhotzkyi Steud.
; Fourn..
I'l.
Mex.
Enum., Gram., p. 61.
On exposed, cool ledges of mountain .sides above Tamasopo Caiion.
June 24.
5.
1 3446).
Andropogon macrourus Michx., var.
corymbosus Hack.
Monog.
Andro]!..
p. 4(l'.t.
Exposed slo2:)es, Tamasopo Caiion.
June 24.
6. i3128).
Hilaria cenchroides HKK.. var.
ciliatus var.
nov. Culms slender, 35 cm.
high ; spikes slender, about 3 cm.
long.
Groups of spikelets 4-5 mm.
long, pale green.
Awns short, not extending beyond the lobes of the glumes, and conspicuously ciliate along their .<ides with short spreading or deflexed hairs.
There are usually two awns between the lobes of the outer glumes of the 9 spikelet.
Near Guadalajara.
May 17.
The genus Hilaria may be briefly characterized as follows : — Spikelets sessile in groups of three at each joint of the zigzag continuous rachis, forming terminal spikes, the groups falling off entire.
The two outer or anterior spikelets $ and tAvoto three-flowered ; the posterior or inner one (next the racliis) 9 or $ and one-flowered.
Empty glumes mucli firmer in texture than the others, inequilateral, many nerved, more or less connate below, entire at apex or more often divided, usually unequally two-lobed, with one to several intermediate awns or awn-like divisions.
Hilaria cenchroides is a low, stoloniferous grass and presents considerable variation in the length and breadth of its leaves, and especially in the size of the spikelets, breadth of glumes and their divisions, length of aw' ns, etc.
In some forms the outer glumes are pale green with rcseate, scarious tips, while in others these glumes are more or less thickly covered with dark purple, punctate dots.
E. Palmer's specimens (No.
197, coll.
1886) are nearly tyjjical, very closely resembhng the illustration in HBK.
Nov. Gen. et Sp.
I, t. 37.
Pringle's specimens of 1885 (No.
493) differ but little from this.
Palmer's No.
347 (1887) is less markedly stoloniferous, taller aud more slender throughout with longer leaves.
It is essentially the same form as that named by Dr. Vasey, H. ceiichroides var.
Texana (Grasses of the Southwest, Part.
I, PI.
X).
In the figure of this last, the outer glumes of the spikelels are represented as scabrous, as they certainly are in my specimens, although in the descriptions they are said to be "smooth."
In Pringle's No.
3128 the spikelets are decidedly shorter than in any other form I have seen, as are also the awns, and these are remarkable in that they are ciliate along their edges (see fig.
2a, Plate XIII.)
In Mexico, H. ceiichroides is used in decoction as a popular remedy to purify the blood especially in cases of skin disease.
(Bull.Torr.
Bot.
Club, XIV, p. 100).
7.
(3133).
Arundinella Deppeana Nees in Boniihimlia, 1S55, p. 84.
Steud.
Syn.
Gram., p. 115; Fourn.
Mex., PI.
Enuiu., (Jram., p. 54.
Same as 1552 C. Wright, Cuban collection (^.
Cubensis (iriseb.
PI.
Wr., p. 53;5).
No.
2615 Pringle, 1889, is the same.
Hemsley (Biol.
Contr.
Am.
Bot.
Ill, p. 252) unites A. Auletica Rupr.
and A. latifolia and A. scop iria Fourn.
with A. Deppeana.
First glume about as long as the third (2"2-2-5 mm.)
acuminatepointed, scabrous on the keel above, 3-nerved ; third glume 3'5-3'8 mm.
long, 5-nerved below, drawn out to a narrow and truncate or emarginate apex ; fourth glume about 1*8 mm.
long (including the obtuse and hairy callus).
Awn very slender, about 9 mm.
long, not flattened nor twisted below*, once geniculate, bending at a point about 2 mm.
above the glume (ch.
ex.
spec.
Pringle).
About the ledges of a cascade at the head of Tamasopo Canon in the mountains midway between San Luis Potosi and Tampico.
June 24.
I refer Pringle's No.
3133 to A. Deppeana from the characters given by Fournier (1. c.) which it may be well to reproduce here.
"Culmo gracili, 3-pedali, foliis angustis, glaucis ssepe convolutis, sumrao a panicula reraoto, glabris cum vaginis, ligula truncata, pilosa ; pedicellis nudis, paniculte laxse radiis patulis infra remote verticillatis, supra sparsis raris ; gluma superiore caudata inferiorem suj^erante, aristse genu nunquam attingente, arista gracili, lequa, glumam superiorem plus quam duplam iequanti, post maturum florem refracta flexuosa."
In Plant.
Cubensium, Grisebach reduces A. Cubensis to A. Brasiliensis Kaddi, probably on account of the opinion expressed by Munro in regard to it.
According to Triuius' figure (Icon.
Gram, tal)., 266) of A. Brasiliensis, as well as the descriptions given of this species, I must consider Pringle's plant distinct from it.
A. Brasiliensis is a stouter grass with broader leaves, and tlie awns of the spikelets are much shorter, stouter, strongly flattened and twisted below the geniculation, similar to that shown in Plate XIII, figs.
9b and 9c, drawn from a spikelet of No.
1746 Pringle, 1888.
8.
3129 I. Paspalum conjugatum Berg., Act.
Helv.
VII, p. 129, PI.
8 ; Trin, Icon.
tab.
1111': ('hajiiu.
So.
Flor.
Suppl.. p. 666: Vasev in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club, XIII, p. 163.
By streams at Las Canoas in the valley at the head of Tamasopo Canon.
July 8.
9.
(3343).
Paspalum gracile Rudge?, Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum., Gram., j).
a. Culms erect or ascending from a geniculate or subrepent base, branched below, 20-35 cm.
high.
Leaves narrowly to broadly lanceolate (3-8 cm.
long by 1-1"5 cm.
broad) acute, cordate at base, thinly pilose on both sides and ciliate-scabrous on the margins ; sheaths lax, pilose along the margins.
Spikes 7-15, solitary or in pairs along the main axis, spreading 1-3 cm.
long, nearly sessile, pilose in the axils ; rhachis flat, 2-3 mm.
broad, scabrous on the inner face and margins, back smooth.
Spikelets pale greenish-white, smooth, biseriate, appressed, obtuse, 2-2'3 mm.
long ; pedicels about O'o mm.
long, jiilo.se-scabrous on the outer side.
Wet meadows about Lake Patzcuaro.
November 9.
No.
240 Rusby, 1886, fjom Bolivia, is the same.
According to Trinius (Panic.
Gen., p. 78) Paspalum gracile Rudge, is an exceedingly variable species, differing much in its several forms in height of culm, length and breadth of leaves, number and length of spikes, pubescence, etc.
He describes the spikelets as acute while in our plant they are obtuse.
In other respects the characters agree very well.
Our i)lant should be compared with P. pallidum HBK., which Trinius (1. c.) regarded as only a low growing variety of P. gracile Rudge.
No.
1696 Fendler, from Venezuela, which was distributed as P. pallidum HBK.
is rather P. candidum HBK.
: note the uni-seriate and obtuse spikelets, characters which Kunth specially points out as distinguishing P. candidum from P. pallidum.
(HBK.
Nov. Gen. et.
Sp.
I, p. 73).
10.
3336).
Panioum paspaloides Pers., PI.
I, p. 81; Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum..
(iram., p. 18; Chapm.
So.
Fl..
Suppl., p. 666 : Va.sey Bull.
8 (Bot.
Div.
U. S. Dept.
Agr.)
p. 23.
Shallow water of Lake Patzcuaro, State of Michoacan.
October 22.
The Indians gather this grass to feed their donkeys, oxen, etc., by pulling out of the water the thick stems which are nearly six feet long (Pringle.)
11.
(3403).
Panicum divaricatum Linn, in.Elingr, PI.
.Jam.
Pugil., No.
9; Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum., Grain., p. 32; Chapm.
So.
Fl., p. 575; Vasey Bull.
8 (Bot.
Div.
U. S. Dept.
Agr.)
p. 39.
Very different from No.
1732, collection of 1888.
Ledges, Tamasopo Caiiou.
July 1.
12.
(3449).
Panicum hians Ell., var.
purpurascens var.
nov.
The three lower glumes dark purple.
Branches of the panicle shorter, spikelets longer (nearly 3 mm.)
and generall}' more crowded, and outer glumes more obtuse than in the species as found in the Southern States.
Sparsely jiilose near the base of the leaves, otherwise smooth throughout.
Wet hollows in prairies of Flor de Maria, State of Mexico.
September 4.
— F. hiavs Ell.
is remarkable for the unusually large, subcoriaceous and obovate palea of the neutral floret.
13.
(3452).
Panicum sulcatum Aubl., PI.
(iuian..
I, ).. 50: Griseb.
Flor.
Brit.
West Iml., p. 547; Heiusl.
Biol.
Cent.
Am., Botany, III, 496 (and p. 506 .sub Setaria).
Setaria sulcata Raddi var., Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum,, Gram., p. 42, Wet shaded ledges, Tamasopo Canon.
September 30.
14.
(3320 1.
Leersia hexandra Sw., Prod.
FI.
Ind, Oce., p, 21 ; Chaj.m.
So.
Fl., p. 549; Fourn.
ilex.
PI.
Enum., Gram., p. 2; -L. Mexicana HBK., Nov. Gen. et.
Sp., PI.
I, p. 195.
Shallow water.
Lake Patzcuaro, State of Michoacan.
October 25.
15.
(3274).
Stipa tenuissima Trin.
(corresponds with Havard's Texan sjieeimens so named by l>r.
Vasey.
Contbr.
U. S. Herb.
II, p.
55.)
Culms slender, simple, erect from a perennial root, 60-80 cm.
high ; leaves slender filiform, elongated, scabrous ; ligule 2 mm.
long ; panicle 12-20 cm.
long, slender, base enclosed in the upper leafsheath, branches in threes or 'fives, erect, 1-5 cm.
long.
Empty glumes with long-attenuated or subulate, hyaline and colorless tips, about 1 mm.
broad at the pur])lish base, three-nerved, lateral nerves short ; the first glume 6*5-8'5 mm.
long, the second usually a little shorter ; pedicels strongly scabrous.
Flowering glume 2 mm.
long, minutely tubercu lateroughened, crowned with a few short bristles and with a line of short appressed hairs on the back below; callus short and obtuse, pilose.
Awn very slender 6-7 cm.
long, minutely scabrous, strongly geniculate at about 2 mm.
from the base, the long upper part flexuose.
Palea rather delicate, less than one-half as long as its glume.
Cameras Pass, Coahuila, on limestone liills.
September 20.
Neither Hemsley nor Fournier recognize S. tenuissima Trin.
as Mexican.
Among the species described by Fournier, Stipa snbulata (Mex.
PI.
Euiim., Gram., p. 75) comes nearest to inchidiugour grass according to the characters that are given, Trinius (Act.
Petrop.
1836, p. 36 and Stipac, p. 41) says of the South American plant, (the type was collected in Mendoza) " radix fibrosa, annua.
Paniculne angustissimje tenera*, radiis subsolitariis."
In our plant the root is evidently perennial and the rays of the panicle are in threes or fives; in all other respects, however, the excellent description given by Trinius for S. tenuissima applies most closely.
16.
(3316).
Muhlenbergia Boargaei Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum., (Tram., jp.
s6.
(Same as 11 00 Bourgeau in herb, m.) Annual.
Culms much branched and leafy below, slender and naked above, 15-30 cm.
high, Ligule acute, hyaline 3 mm, long.
Leaves flat, 1-3 cm, long, 1 mm, or less broad, very finely scabrous on the margins and minutely pubescent on the upper side along the nerves.
Panicle 3-5 cm.
long, rather narrow, branches solitary, ascending, the lower ones l'5-2*5 cm, long.
Empty glumes unequal, the first lanceolate, acute, one-nerved, about 1*5 mm.
long ; the second much broader, 2 mm.
long, three-nerved and acutely three-toothed at the apex.
Flowering glume 3 mm, long, pilose below at the back and sides, scabrous above, awned just below the entire or bidentate apex; awn 8-12 mm.
long, scabrous and strongly flexuose.
Callus pilose.
Prairies of Flor de Maria.
September 4, In the closely allied M. ClomenaTr'm.
(824Pringle 1886, and 932 Parry and Palmer 1878), the culms are usually about 8-12 cm, high, the main axis of the short panicle and also its branches are strongly flexuose, at least at maturity.
The second empty glume hardly 1*5 mm.
long and scarcely exceeded by the flowering glume which is broader in proportion to its length and more pilose than in M. Bourgcei.
17, (3444).
Muhlenbergia SchafEheri Fourn.
var.
longiseta.
{Af.
Schaffneri .■^eribner, Bot.
Gaz.
IX, p. 187.1 Empty glumes scarcely one-half the length of flowering glume, awn 10-18 mm.
long (2-3?
times longer than the glume).
The apex of the flowering glume .
is often bifid, the divisions setiform ; <ii visions 0'5-l"5 mm.
long.
20 298 [1891.
Foot hills of the Rio Hondo, ten miles west of the City of Mexico, growing on thin soil of ledges.
August 25.
Fouruier (Mex.
PI.
Enum., (iram., p. 85) describing Ji.
Schaffneri says, "glumis insequalibus, inferiore profunde bidentata, brevi(jr, superiore acuta iequaute spiculam ; palea inferiore Integra, subulatorostrata, seta a?quante spiculam."
These characters include my M. depauperata (Bot.
Gaz.
IX, 187), which, therefore, must be abandoned.
18.
(3477).
MuMenbergia articulata, n.
?]..
Perennial.
Culms simple, erect, 60-80 cm.
high, enveloped at the base, as are also the numerous innovations, by the old, ])ersistent, and somewhat compressed leaf-sheaths which are terminated by the rigid ligules that project beyond the articulation where the fallen blades were attached.
Leaves elongated, folded, terete, filiform, the upper one nearly equalling the panicle, smooth without, densely strigose-pubescent within, distinctly articulated with • the sheath.
Sheaths finely pubescent on the back above, at least when young, margins smooth, striate.
Ligule rigid, 6-10 mm.
long, entire, distinctly twokeeled, with broad, striate and decurrent margins, persistent on the old sheaths after the blades have fallen.
Panicle pale-green or straw-colored, strict, elongated (30-40 cm.
), rather densely flowered ; liranches numerous, short (2-4 cm.
), erect.
Spikelets lanceolate, subterete, erect on slender pilose-scabrous pedicels.
Empty glumes lanceolate, acute, onenerved, ciliate-scabrous on the nerves above, the second usually subulate-pointed and nearly as long as the floret, the first a little shorter and narrower.
Flowering glume lanceolate, acute, 4-5 mm.
long, threejr/fc»/a/a.
's'!uppe'^ nerved, slightly scabrous on the raid-nerve above and siieath°Lg°LigiMl:Slioi"tly pilose autcriorly on the distinct callus; awn ^helam^naT.'
point strictly terminal, slender, subflexuose, 20-30 mm.
°nrwith''the" heath!
lo^gPalca lanceolate, acute, about as long as the floral glume, two-nerved, nerves approximate, especially near the tip where they are slightly scabrous, smooth below.
Calcareous banks, Cardenas, State of San Luis Potosi.
October 7.
19.
(3381 1.
Perieilema crinitum Presl, in Rel.
Hsenk.
I, 2.3.3. t. 37 : Kunth Enum.
PI.
I, p. 2:55: Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum..
Gram., ji.
'.):'..
Spikelets one-flowered, the $ surrounded at the base with numerous bristles or delicate bracts and a few $ spikelets.
Flowering glume three-nerved, pilose at the base, long awned ; nerves of the palea almost coalescing above.
A slender, branched annual 20-80 cm.
high, often rooting at the lower joints; leaves long and delicate ; spikelets crowded in dense clusters forming a more or less interrupted spike-like panicle, 8-20 cm.
long.
Shaded ledges of a barranca, near Guadalajara, State of Jalisco.
October and November.
20.
(3317).
Sporobolus repens Presl, Rel.
Ha;nk.
I, 241.
Vilfa repens Trin.
Ajirost.
I, ji.
80 : Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum., Gram., 101.
Same as 3285.
Borgeau.
Shallow ponds (then sterile and the stems and leaves floating on the surface of the water), and in wet soil about the borders of these (then i-ooting and fruiting), prairies of Flor de Maria, State of Mexico.
September 4.
21.
(3197).
Sporobolus argutus Kunth, Enum.
PI.
I, p. 215: Vilfa argtitus Nees, Agr.ist.
Bras.
395 : Trin.
Agrost.
I, p. 40 : Vilfa hiimifusa HBK.
var.
B major, Fourn.
Mex.
I'l.
Enum., Gram., p. 1)7.
Same as 816 Pringle, 1886.
Low meadows, Valley of Mexico, Federal District.
July 27.
22.
(3130.)
Sporobolus minutiflorus Link ?
; Kunth, Enum.
PI.
I, p. 214.
Vdfa minuttflora Trin.
Agro.st.
I, ]).
63; Doell Flor, Brs.
fasc.
LXXIX, p. 31.
Culms 20-40 cm.
high, slender.
Leaves flat, 3 mm.
or less broad, 3-10 cm.
long.
Ligule very short, ciliate.
Panicle exserted, pyramidal, 8-16 cm.
long ; branches solitary or (rarely) in pairs, the lower ones 4-6 cm.
long, naked below ; s])ikelets rather crowded above and along the secondary branches on short unequal pedicels.
Spikelets 1 mm.
long; second glume about 0*5 mm.
long, rounded, obtuse, broader and a little longer than the first ; flowering glume and palea equal, obtuse and nerveless.
Thin soil of limestone ledges, hills above Las Canoas, State of San •Luis Potosi.
23.1,3335).
Epicampes Bourgaei Fourn.
1 (Mex.
PI.
Enum., Gram., j), 88) : Sporobolus complanatus Scribner, as distributed.
Perennial.
Culms rather stout, simple, erect, 1"5 mm.
high, compre.ssed below, smooth, nodes pruinose.
Leaves with smooth carinate sheaths longer than the internodes ; ligule delicate, hyaline, 10 mm.
long, acute or lacerated ; lamina elongated (60 cm.)
attenuatepointed, flat, 3-6 mm.
wide, scabrous on both sides and roughserrulate along the margins.
Panicle diflS'use, 45 cm.
long ; branches irregularly scattered along the main rachis, capillary, naked below for one-half their length, the lower widely spreading, 10-15 cm.
long, shorter and more erect above.
Spikelets not at all compressed, 1*5-2 mm.
long, one-flowered.
Empty glumes ovate or oblong, obtuse, subequal, distinctly one-nerved, minutely roughened on the back, equalling or a little shorter than the floret.
Flowering glume distinctly three-nerved, rather broadly obtuse, occasionally shortmucronate pointed by the extension of the mid-nerve, smooth at the base.
Palea as long as its glume, two-nerved, embracing (not adherent to) the caryopsis in fruit.
Stamens three.
Stigmas projecting from the sides of the floret.
Fruit a caryopsis, smooth, subterete, obtuse, nearly as long as the fruiting glume and loosely held in the floret by the broad margins of the palea.
(PI.
XIII, figs.
4-4dj.
Under cool cliffs of a barranca, near Guadalajara, State of Jalisco.
November 3.
This grass differs from Epieampes as described by Bentham and Hooker (Gen. Ill, p. 1148) in its widely diffuse panicle which, with its small spikelets, resembles an Agrostis.
The irregular (spiral ?)
disposition of the branches, the firm texture of the flowering glume, large palea and terminal awn or mucro, separate it from that genus.
The strictly adherent pericarp alone separates it from Sporobolus.
From Miihlenhergia it is distinguished by its loosely enclosed caryopsis, this being held chiefly by the palea, to which however, it is not at all adherent.
As understood by Fournier, the grass in question certainly belongs to Epicampes, and it is probably his E. Bourgcei.
From his imperfect descriptions, however, one is hardly enabled to positively determine the species.
Unfortunately I am not able to compare Pringle's specimens with those of Bourgeau and Liebmau, referred to by Fournier as types of his E. Bourg<ei and E. expansa, 24.
(3445).
Deschampsia Pringlei, Scribn.
(in Pringle"?
coll.. 1SS7.
no.
1429.)
Culms slender, erect, very smooth, 60-70 cm.
high.
Sterile shoots (innovations) numerous, extravaginal, leaves of these rather short and narrower than those of the flowering culm.
Sheaths smooth, shorter than the internodes.
Ligule membranous, about 2 mm.
long, obtuse, broader than the leaf-blade.
Leaves flat, 5-12 cm.
long, 1-3 mm.
(usually about 2) wide, scabrous above and along the margins, somewhat rigid at the involute apex.
Panicle 7-12 cm.
long, strict, densely flowered, somewhat interrupted below ; branches erect, appressed, the longer ones 2-3 cm., covering the internodes of the main rhachis.
Spikelets 2-flowered with a minute prolongation of the rachilhi behind the second floret, on short (usually very short) scabrous pedicels ; empty glumes longer than the florets, subequal, about 5 mm.
long, lanceolate, acute, one-nerved, or the second, -which is a little broader than the first, mdistinctly three-nerved below, scabrous along the keels to near the base, margins broadly scarious ; flowering glumes oblong, rounded on the back, texture rather firm below, faintly five-nerved (nerves visible only by transmitted light ) two-lobed at the apex, lobes scarious, rounded and minutely erose dentate ; callus short, subacute, pilose with short stiff" hairs ; internode between the florets very short, awn from near the base of the flowering glumes, 6-7 mm.
long, geniculate, twisted below ; palea f as long as the glume, delicate.
(PI.
XIII, figs.
1, la).
Damp soil of plains.
La Honda, State of Zacatecas.
August 19.
The type (Xo.
1429, 1887) was found growing in wet places, pine plains, at the base of the Sierra iladre in the State of Chihuahua.
The plant from La Honda has rather narrower glumes, both empty and flowering, the latter nearly equalling the former in length, and the prolongation of the rachilla above the second floret is more conspicuous.
25.
(3279).
Danthonia Mexicana "p. hot.
Culms 70-90 cm.
high, erect, slender, wiry.
Leaves strongly involute, erect, rather rigid, pungent, scabrous without, strigosepubescent within ; ligule 2-3 mm.
long, laciniate, auricled.
Panicle strict, 15-20 cm.
long; branches solitary or in pairs bearing 1-3 spikelets, slightly pilose in the axils.
Spikelets about 15 mm.
long, 3-4 flowered ; empty glumes lanceolate, very acute or mucronatepointed, 7-9 nerved, slightly unequal, the first about 12 mm.
long, the second a little broader and longer, scariou»-margined ; flow'ering glumes rounded on the back, pilose with silky hairs on the lower half, bifid at the apex the divisions subulate-pointed, 9-nerved, the three middle nerves approximate and extending into the geniculate awn which is about 14 mm.
long, flat and twisted below ; callus subacute, densely pilose; palea narrow, about 7 mm.
long, ciliatescabrous on the nerves above.
Ovary about 3 mm.
long with a pubescent, cushion-like summit.
(PI.
XIII, figs.
7-76).
Very unlike any other Xorth American species.
Dry limestone ledges, Carneros Pass.
September 20.
26.
I 3465 ;.
Microchloa setacea R.
Br., Prod.
Flor.
Nov.
Hoi., p. 286 : Benth.
Flor.
Austr.
VII.
|i.
60S; HBK.
Nov. Gen. et.
Sp.
I, p. 84, t. 22: Doell in Mart.
Flor.
Bra.=.
II.
?,, p. 75. t. 21 : S. Wats, in Proc.
Am.
Acad.
XVIII, II.
176.
Spikelets 2-2*5 mm.
long, acute, strictly one-flowered, awnless, sessile and closely imbricate along one side of the rachis forming a slender terminal, more or less falcate spike 3-8 cm.
long.
Empty glumes nearly equal, persistent, one-nerved.
Flowering glumes shorter, hyaline, three-nerved, and somewhat irregularly threetoothed at the broad apex, lateral nerves nearly marginal, ciliate on the back below and on the margins (with longer hairs) to the summit.
An annual with slender, densely tufted culms, 8-20 cm.
high.
Sandy soil, Valley of Mexico.
July 27.
27.
I 3451 1.
Spartina densiflora Brongn.
in I>upr.
It.
Bot., p. 14: E. I>e.<v.
in C. <!ay Fl.
Chil.
\'I, p. 372.
(From description.)
Allied to S. gracilis Trin., but quite distinct.
Brackish marshes.
Las Tablas.
July 8.
Spartina Gouini Fourn.
is apparently the same; the characters given for this species (Mex.
PI.
Enum., Gram., p. 135) certainly embrace our plant.
28.
(3174).
Bouteloua stolonifera, B. scorpioides Lag.
?
S. Wats, in Proc.
Am.
XVIII.
p. 176.
Same as 1010 SchafiFner.
Plants strongly stoloniferous.
Spikes readily deciduous as a whole.
Spikelets distinctly pedicellate.
Callus of the 5 floret shortly pilose, and near the middle of the pedicel of the long-awned (10-15 mm.)
upper empty glumes there is a minute tuft of short hairs, glumes otherwise smooth.
Plains, State of Zacatecas, between San Luis Fotosi and Aguas Calientes.
August 19.
Fournier refers Lagasca's plant {B. scorpioides Lag.)
to Chondrosium tenue Beauv.
(B. tenuis S.
AVats.)
but it is quite impossible to identify B. scorpioides by the meager description — " cubno erecto, filiformi, monostachyo ; spica lineari-oblonga, spiraliter revoluta " — given by Lagasca.
So far as they go, however, these characters are rather more applicable to B. temds than to 3174 Priugle or 1010 Schaffher.
29.
(3252).
LeptocMoa Mexicana sp.
nov. Culms simple, terete, solid, erect, 1 m. or more high from a strong creeping root-stock.
Sheaths longer than the internodes.
Ligule a ring of stiff" hairs, 2-3 mm.
long.
Leaf-blade flat, 30-40 cm.
long, lanceolate, 1-2 cm.
broafi, tapering gradually to the very acute tip, glabrous ; mid-rib Avhite and prominent below, evanescent above.
Panicle pyramidal, 30-40 cm.
long with a strong, sulcateangular and smooth rachis ; branches simple, rather slender, ascending, solitary or the lower subverticillate, tri(juetrous, scabrous on the angles, the lower 20-27 cm.
long, becoming shorter above.
Spikelets 10-14 mm.
long.
3-4-flo\vered, erect and racemose along the outer side of the branches, remote below, approximate above ; pedicels mostly shorter than the spikelets ; empty glumes membranaceo-chartaceous, broadly lanceolate, acute, one-nerved, unequal, the first 4-5 the second 6-7 mm.
long, scabrous on the nerve ; flowering glume 3-nerved, nerves densely silky-villousfor one-half or two-thirds their length from the base, mid-nerve extending into a short awn beyond the acute and entire apex, the nearly marginal lateral nerves evanescent above.
Palea two-toothed, pilose on the nerves below, finely scabrous above.
Callus densely pilose.
Joints oftherachilla about 2 mm.
long, pubescent above.
Stamens three.
Stigmas plumose, projecting from the sides of the florets.
Ovary smooth.
A tall reed-like, perennial grass with solid culms which are somewhat frutescent below, broad flat leaves and ample panicle.
About dry ledges, Tamasopo Caiion.
September 28.
This gra.ss might be classed as Diplachne if compared with the American species referred to that genus by Bentham, rather than with the characters Avhich he has assigned to it.
In defining the genus Diplachne both Bentham and Hackel describe the flowering^ glume as one-nerved.
Molinia serotina (Festuca serotina L.), referred to Diplachne by Bentham (Gen. PI.
Ill, p. 1176), has 5-nerved flowering glumes ; all the American species which the same author refers to this genus have the flowering glumes distinctly three-nerved.
These American species clearly possessthe peculiar inflorescence which alone serves to distinguish the Chloridese from the Festuceog.
To me the genus Diplachne is not only poorly established, but really stands in the way of a simple and natural classification, and all attempts to maintain it are most likely to result in confusion.
As •already stated, the North American species which have recently been referred to or placed in Diplachne belong, by their inflorescence, to the Chloridete and ought to be referred to Leptochloa.
Beauvois' genus, Diplachne (Agrost., p. 80, t. XVI, f. 9) was founded upon Leptochloa fascicularis Gray.
Beauvois says nothing of the nervation of the flowering glumes ; these are, hoAvever, distinctly three-uerved ; nor does be mention the disposition of the spikelets, but they are manifestly arranged along one side of the branches of the simple panicle.
Adding these characters to his description there is nothing left to distinguish Diplachne from Babdochloa Beauv.
(Agrost, p. 84, t. XVII, f. 3) which Bentbam has very properly referred ((ien.
PI.
Ill, p. 1173) to Leptochloa.
Leptochloa spicata {Diplachne spicata Dq?11) connects Leptochloa on the one side with Microchlon, from which it differs by its less crowded and several flowered spikelets, and on the other side with Triodia, from which it is separated by its one-sided inflorescence and more distinctly keeled flowering glumes ; from the recognized species of Leptochloa it differs only in its more simple inflorescence.
Leptochloa rigida jNIunro {Diplachne rigida Vasey) is an Eragrostis {E. rigida Scribn.)
30.
(3448).
Leptochloa dubia Xees, Agrost.
Bras., p. 433 ; Chapm.
So.
Flor., \>.
.
).3y : Diplachne dubia Benth.
ex.
8.
Wats.
Proc.
Am.
Acad.
XVIII, p. 181 ; Vasey Grasses U. S,, p. 35.
Cardenas, State of San Luis Potosi.
October 7.
31.
(3267).
Leptochloa spicata.
— Diplachne spicata Doell on Mart.
FI.
Bras.
II.
3, t. 28: Benth.
Notes on Gram.
Trans.
Linn.
Socy.
XIX, p. 111 ; D. Reverchoni Vasey, Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club, XIII, p. 118; Triodia Schaffneri S.
Wats., Proc.
Am.
Acad, XVIII.
p. 181 : Triplasis setacea (Jriseb., ex Benth.
1. c, et Gen. PI.
Ill, p, 1177.
Hills near San Luis Potosi.
September 7.
32.
32841.
Eragrostis pectinacea Steud., Syn.
Gram., p. 272; Gray Man.
Bot.
5 (3il., ]).
t;.
'!2 ; Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum., Gram., p. 114.
Cardenas, State of San Luis Potosi.
October 7.
33.
(3472).
Eragrostis ciliaris Link, Hort.
Berol.
I.
)>.
192: Chapm.
Flor.
So.
U. S., p. 536.
Las Palmas, State of San Luis Potosi.
June 5.
34.
(3334).
Eragrostis Vahlii Nees, Agrost.
Bras., 499: Doell in Mart.
Flor.
Bras.
II, 3, p. 154: a7nceiia Presl.
Rel.
Haenk.
I, p. 275, ex Kunth Enum.
I, p. 342 (sub.
Poa) : Megastachya amcena Fourn.
Mex.
PI.
Enum., Gram., p. 118. j£'ra^roj//j /*/-««^/W Scribn.
as distributed.
Annual.
Culms ctespitose, erect or ascending, 5-30 cm.
high, simple or with flower-bearing branches below.
Leaves flat, attenuate-acuminate, smooth on the upper surface, usually pilose ; sheaths slightly compressed, striate, pilose at the throat.
Panicle short (3-5 cm.)
and subspicate, or elongated (10-15 cm.)
with the solitary lower branches remote and more or less spreading, spikelet bearing to the base, axils pilose.
Spikelets very short-pedicellate, crowded or fasciculate, erect or somewhat spreading.
5-25 mm.
long, linear or linear-oblong, much compres.sed, many (10-50) flowered.
Empty glumes lanceolate-acuminate or acute, subequal, a little shorter than or nearly equalling the adjacent floral glumes, onenerved, scabrous on the keel.
Fhjwering glume 2 — 2"5 mm.
long, ovate-lanceolate, strongly acuminate-pointed, distinctly three-nerved, scabrous on the keel above.
Palea i shorter than its glume, finely ciliate along the keels.
(PI.
XIII, figs.
8, 8a.)
Sandy plains, near (luadalajara, State of Jalisco.
October and November.
36.
(3243).
Briza subaristata Lam.
I, 187: Doell in Mart.
Flor.
Bras.
II.
3, j).
134.
Chascolytrum sttbaristratum Desv.
in .lourn.
de Bot.
Ill, p. 71 ; Kunth.
Revis.
Gram.
I, p. 347. t. S7: Briza rotundata Steud.
Gram., p. 284; S. Wats, in Proc.
Am.
Acad.
XVIII.
j).
182: Hemsl.
in Biol.
Cent.
Amer.
Ill, p. 579.
Perennial.
Culms rather slender, 40-60 cm.
high, erect or slightly geniculate at the lowermost joints.
Panicle narrow, 6-10 cm.
long, Isranches and spikelets erect.
Spikelets thick, ovate or subrotund, 3-5 mm.
long, 6-10 flowered.
Empty glumes cymbi«form, nearly equal, shorter than the first florets, scabrous above, the first threenerved, the second seven-nerved, much broader and subcordate at base.
Flowering glumes nearly as broad as long (3-3"5 mm.)
deeply cordate at the base; very abruptly short-acuminate (rostratoapiculatcd) the apex minutely two-toothed with a short awn or mucro between the teeth, strongly convex on the back below, this portion being coriaceous, shining and very often minutely pubescent, the troad, flat margins whitish or purplish (B. violesceyis Steud.?).
Palea roundish-oblong, exactly covering the inflated portion of the flowering glume.
(See PI.
XIH, figs.
10-lOd.)
Calcareous bluffs, Flor de Maria and Rio Hondo.
August and September.
36.
1 3443).
Brachypodiam pinnatum Beauv.
var.
caespitosua.
Culms ctespitose, slender, somewhat geniculate and more or less branched below, 50-80 cm.
high ; nodes closely and downwardly pubescent; sheaths slightly scabrous, the overlapping edge conspicuously ciliate, the lower sheaths occasionally .sparingly pilose ; ligule 1-1*5 mm.
long, fimbriate, broader than the leaf-blade; lamina flat, 2-4 mm.
wide, very acute, scabrous, pilose with scattered hairs on the upper surface ; raceme 6-8 cm.
long, bearing 4-6 spikelets on short (2 mm.)
and finely pubescent pedicels ; spikelets erect or spreading, 2-2'5 cm.
long, 6-9-flowered ; first glume 6 mm.
long, 5-nerved, the second a little broader and longer (7-7"5 mm.
), 7-9-nerved, both very finely serrate on thescarious marji;;iii.« near the rather blunt or subacute tips ; first flowering glume about 9 mm.
long, 7-nerved, rounded on the back and terminating in a short (3-6 mm.)
awn ; palea strongly 2-nerved, 2-keeled, ciliate on the keels above.
Ovary crowned with a thickened, villous appendage which extends down the sides to the base.
Caryopsis broadly sulcate, adherent to the palea which it nearly equals in length, crowned w'ith the remains of the villous appendage of the ovary.
Embryo small.
Lodicules conspicuous, obliquely pointed with ciliate margins.
(See Plate XIII, figs.
5-5e.)
Wet meadows about Lake Patzcuaro.
November 9.
This gra.ss comes too near the European B. pinnainrn (as represented in my herbarium) to be separated from it specifically; it is, however, rather more distinctly Ciespitose in habit, and in my specimens there is no evidence of a creeping rootstalk, the presence of which is given a.s one of the characters of the species.
//.
Species collectedi7ilS90,bythe Expedition from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, under Prof. A. Heilprin.
1.
(172i.
Andropogon saccharoides Sw.
Prod.
Flor.
Ind.
Occ, p. 26; Flor.
Ind.
Occ.
I.
]i.
2(lj.
Near the City of Mexico, Mexico.
April 11, 1890.
2.
(67).
.Egopogon geminiflorus HBK., Nov. (ien.
et Sp.
PI.
I, p. 13.3, t. 43: Fourii.
,Me.\, PI.
Eiiiiin., (iraui., p. 71.
Dry rocky places.
Town of Orizaba, Mexico.
March 28, 1890.
3.
(274).
Chloris ciliata Sw., Flor.
Ind.
Occ.
I, p. 197 : l»oelI in Mart.
Flor.
Bras.
II.
;;.
p. 66: Kunth Enum., PI.
I, p. 263: Trin.
Icon, (iram., t. 307.
Calcehtoh, Yucatan.
March 11, 1890.
4.
(184).
Bouteloua Americana Seribn.
Aristida Americana Sw., Obs.
41, t., f. 2 (1791) ei Kunth.
Dimhra Americana Beauv., Agrost.. p. 98, t. XVI, f. 3 (1812.)
Dinebra repens HBK.
!
Nov. Gen.
I, 172, t. 52 (1815.)
Atheropogon repens R.
AS., Syst.
Veg.
II, p. 416 (1817.)
Bouteloua bromoides Lag., Blench., p. 5 (1815) ex S. Wats.
Proc.
Am.
Acad.
XVIII.
pp.
177 et 179.
B. litigiosa Lag.
(according to S])eciinen in my herbarium from Porto Rico, so named bv HackeL) B. Humboldhana Griseb.
PI.
Wr., p. 132. excl.
Syn.
Note.
Aristida Americana L., cited by Kunth (Enum.
PI., p. 281) as a synonym of his Eatriana juncifoUa, is a true Aristida which Trinius named A. dispjersa, according to Munro in his enumeration of the grasses in the Linnsean herbarium.
Dr. Watson (1. c.) united under Bouteloua bromoides LtSig., Heterostegajuneifolia Desv.
in Bull.
Soc.
Phil.
Dec. (1810), and Boutelona Humholdiiana Griseb.
Tekanto, Yucatan, February 28, 1890.
5.
(210).
Bouteloua Triaena Scribn.
Triatia racemosa HBK., Nov. Gen. et fep.
I, p. 179, t. 61.
Kunth.
Enum.
PI.
I, ji.
2S4.
Atheropogon Triana Spreng., Syst.
I, p.
29.
'?, ex Kunth ; Bouteloua Triathera Benth.
Journ.
Linn.
Soe.
XIX, p. 104 (in jiart.)
Culms slender, branched at the base.
Leaves flat, sparingly pilose, at least the lower ones, as are also the sheaths ; ligule a ring of dense short hairs.
Spikes distichously-racemose along the upper part of the culm from which they readily fall at maturity, partial rachis continued beyond the solitary spikelet into a bristle-like prolongation lying close to the lower glume which it nearly equals in length.
Empty glumes narrowly oblong, one-nerved, somewhat inequilateral and slightly retuse at the blunt point, the first about 2 ram.
long, the second about 3'5 mm.
long.
Flowering glume 3-nerved, 5-6 mm.
long, slender-acuminate-pointed, scabrous on the keel above, and sometimes w'ith a few short scattered hairs on the back (seen under the lens).
Palea nearly as long as its glume, entire or bimucronate at the narrow tip.
Second floret reduced to three scabrous, nearly equal awns (about 8 mm.
long) supported on a smooth joint of the rachilla (stipe) which is about one-half as long as the floral glume.
It is doubtless the prolongation of the partial rachis which is often so closely appressed to the back of the lowest glume that Kunth mistook it for a basal awn (" glumfe 2 ; inferior basi aristata," Enum.
PI.
I, p. 284, et HBK.
Nov. Gen. et Spec.
I, p. 179, t. 61, f 1).
Our plant differs too much from the description of Triathera Americana Desv.
(included in Bouteloua Triathera by Bentham) to be classed specifically with it.
In that the culms are very much branched with rigid involute-sectaceous leaves ; the empty glumes are ovate-lanceolate, subulate acuminate and the apex of the flowering glume is trifid with subulate divisions.
In our specimens, the culms are less branched, the spikelets nearer the main axis (more nearly sessile as understood by Kunth) Bouteloua Tritena, i and 2, entire spikelets ; 3, spikelet with empty glumes removed ; a, continuation of the partial rachis supporting the spikelet; b, first empty glume ; d, second empty glume ; e, flowering glume; f, palea ; c, the 3-awned rudiment.
(Original).
than in Tricena racemosa as figured by Kunth, and the glumes are more unequal.
Tekanto, Yucatan.
February 22, 1890.
6.
(170).
Eragrostis lugens Nees, Agrost.
Bras.
.305 ; Doell in part, f lor.
Bras.
ir.
.3, ]).
140.
Near Eragrostis capillaris Steud.
(Poa capillaris Linn.)
San Angelo, near the City of Mexico, Mexico.
April 11, 1890.
7.
(187).
Eragrostis ciliaris Link, Hort.
Berol.
I, ji.
192; Griseb.
Flor.
Brit.
W.
Ind., p. 5.S2 ; Chapm.
Flor.
So.
U. S., p. 563.
Poa ciliaris Linn, in Eling., PI.
Jam.
Pug., p. 1,3; Sp.
PI.
ed.
2, p. 102.
Tekanto, Yucatan.
February 27, 1890.
8.
(169).
Bromus unioloides HBK.
Not.
Gen. et .Sp.
I, p. 151; Doell in Mart.
Flor.
Br*s. II, 3, p. 110.
Kear the City of Mexico, Mexico, April 11, 1890.
9.
(168).
Hordeum jubatum Linn., Sp.
PI.
ed.
I, j), S5 : A, (iray, Man.
Bot.
North.
U. S. ed.fi, (1.S90) p, 672.
Near the City of Mexico, Mexico.
April 11, 1890.
Explanation of Plate XIII, Fig, 1.
A spikelet of Deschampsia Pringlei.
Fig.
la.
The same with the empty glumes removed.
Fig.
2, A group of spikelets of Hilar'm cenchroides var.
ciliata, anterior view.
Fig.
2a.
Posterior view of the same.
Fig.
2b, A group of spikelets of Hilaria cenchroides from no.
493, Pringle, 1885 coll.
Fig.
3, 3a; 3b, Spikelets of Panicum hians Ell., var.
pxirpiirascens, three views.
Fig.
3c, Palea of the neutral floret of same.
Fig.
3d.
Dorsal view of the ??
floret of same.
Fig, 4, A spikelet of Epicampes Bourgm (?).
Fig.
4a, Empty glumes of the same.
Fig, 4b, A dorsal view of the flowering glume of the same.
Fig.
4c.
Anterior view of floret of same, showing the palea.
Fig, 4d.
Caryopsis of same.
Fig, 5.
Empty glume of Brachypodium pinnatum var.
ccespitosum.
Fig.
5a.
Dorsal view of the flowering glume of the same.
Fig, 5b.
Anterior view of floret of same showing the palea and joint of rachilla.
Fig, 5c, Ovary and lodicules of same.
Fig.
5d.
Palea of same.
Fig.
5e.
Caiyopsis of same.
Fig.
6.
Spikelet of Leptochloa Mexicana.
Fig.
6a.
Dorsal view of the flowering glume of same.
Fig.
7.
Spikelet of Danthonia Mexicana.
Fig.
7a.
A single floret from the same showing a joint of the rachilla to the right.
Fig.
7b.
Palea of the same.
Fig.
7c.
Apex of the flowering glume of same with a portion of the awn.
Fig.
7d.
Pistil and lodicules of same.
Fig.
8.
Qpike]et of Era gro-stis Vahlii.
Fig.
8a.
A portion of same showing persistent paleas.
Fig.
9.
A spikelet oi Arundinella Deppeana.
Fig.
9a.
The awned floret of same.
Fig.
9b.
A spikelet of Arumiinella Brasilie7isis (?)
from no.
1746, Pringle, 1888.
Fig.
9.
Awned floret from the same, figure to the left of 96.
Fig.
10.
A spikelet of Briza subaristata.
Fig.
10a.
The empty glumes of same.
Fig.
1(>1).
Dorsal view of the flowering glume of same.
Fig.
10c.
Anterior view of the flowering glume of same with palea.
Fig.
lOd.
Anterior view of palea of same.
Note.
All figures original and drawn by the author from specimens collected by Pringle.
310 [1891.
LAND AND FEESH-WATER MOLLUSKS COLLECTED IN YUCATAN AND MEXICO.
BY HENRY A. PIL.SBRY.
The moUusk-s commented uputi in the following pages, were collected by an expedition from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to Yucatan and Mexico during the monthsof February, March, April, May and June, 1890.
The party consisted of Professor Angelo Heili)rin (in charge), Messrs. AVitmer Stone, J. E. Ives, F. C. Baker and Roberts Le Boutillier.
After touching at Havana, Cuba," the party landed at Progreso, Yucatan ; they penetrated southward in Yucatan as far as Tunkas and Labna.
The accompanying sketch map of northern Yucatan shows the position of the various localities at which collections were made.
* In Mexico proper, collections were made around Vera Cruz, at the town of Orizaba, at the city of Mexico and in its environs, at Lake Patzcuaro, situated near the western edge of the plateau, in the State of Michoacan, and at Yau tepee, in the State of Morelos, lying southward from the city of Mexico, and otf the Mexican plateau.
I have affixed the museum numbers of the specimens collected, after each locality.
1 The marine shells collected on the coast of Yucatan and at Vera Cruz, have been catalogued by Mr. F. C. Baker.
See Proc.
Acad.
Phila.
1891, pp.
45-55.
* See appendix A.
3 See Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1891, p. 136, for descriptive notes on the topography and geology of northern Yucatan.
Family TESTAOELLID^.
Genus GLANDINA Schum.
Glandina cylindracea Phillijjs.
From an examination of an authentic specimen of G. njlindracea I conclude that G. carnea Pfeiffer, is completely synonymous.
The species is abundant throughout northern Yucatan.
Tekanto (61510); Tabi (61503); Ticul (61504); Tunkas (61506) ; Sitilpech (61509) ; Izamal (61501) ; Labna (61507) ; Merida (61508) ; and between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61511).
Glandina spp.
A large species of this genus wa^ collected at Vera Cruz, but the specimens (61638) are in poor condition.
Another species, also represented by bleached examples only, was found at Yautepec (61634).
Still another large species was found at Shkolak, Yucatan (61637) and at Izamal (61636), and another at Purga, Province of Vera Cruz (61635).
Glandina Varicella) speciosa Pfr.
Orizaba (61505).
Glandina (Selasiella) perpusilla Pfr.
Hills around Orizaba (61502).
(Jenus STREPTOSTYLA Shuttl.
Streptostyla Edwardsiana Crosse & Fisuher.
Orizaba (61513).
Streptostyla physodes ShuttL Orizaba (61512).
streptostyla vexans Strebel.
Orizaba (61515).
A small, slender form, apparently belonging to this species.
Several small species have not yet been positively determined.
Subgenus ORYZOSOMA Pilsbry.
The Nautilus, iv, (ii).
May, 1891.
Shell perforated; the columella thickened, simply concave, almost imperceptibly sinuous above.
Streptostyla (Oryzosoma) Tabiensis Pilsbry, n. sp.
(PI.
XV, figs.
6, 7.)
Shell small, ovate-turrited, rather thin, the base deeply indented and minutely perforated.
Spire conic, obtuse; whorls 6, slightly convex ; apical I5 whorls wide, forming a globose nucleus, the following 2 whorl excessively narrow.
Suture simple, narrowly margined.
Aperture small, narrow above, one-half the length of the entire shell; outer lip thin, produced forward in the middle; columella thick, a little reflexed, concave on the apertural side ; receding a trifle above.
Surface polished, scarcely broken by slight growthlines.
Color translucent-whitish, (denuded of epidermis).
Alt.
9-8, diam.
4-8 mm.
Alt.
of aperture 4*8, greatest breadth of aperture 2"5 mm.
Cave in the mountains, near the hacienda of Tabi, Yucatan (61, 630).
Dead and denuded of epidermis.
This seems to be perfectly distinct from all described species in its funnel-shaped, perforate base, and the lack of a convex columellar fold.
(ienus PSETJDOSUBULINA Strel.el A PfeflFer.
Pseudosubulina Berendti Pfr.
Hills around Orizaba (61494).
Pseudosubulina sp.
A very minute form, probably undescribed.
Orizaba (61493).
Pseudosubulina (Volutaxis) Miradorensis Strebel(?)
Orizaba (61545).
Family LIMACIDJE s. lat.
Genu?
ZONITES Montf.
Zonites (Zonyalinai bilineatus Pfr.
Hills, 300-500 ft. above Orizaba (61522); a bandless form (61521) was collected at the same locality.
Zonites (Hyaliniai indentatus Say.
Yautepec (61520).
This easily recognized species seems to inhabit the greater part of North America; it is the niost abundant of the smaller Zonites in Texas.
Zonites (Hyalinia) subhyalinus Pfr.
Hills around Orizaba, about 500 ft. above the town.
(61523.)
Genus STENOPUS Guild.
^Stenopus-\Guppya Morch-\Habroconns C. & F. Stenopus elegans Strebel.
Hills around Orizaba (61550) ; Yautepec (61549).
• 1891.]
KATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIlLADELPniA.
313 Family HELICID^.
Genus HELIX L. I would restrict this genus to those snails having the genital apparatus complicated by the presence of a flagellum upon the penissac, in the male system ; and in the female system a long duct to the receptaculum seminis which frequently l)ranches out into a long blind sac, a dart-sac or sacks, and a pair of accessory mucus or digitate glands.
In some species one or more of these organs may be undeveloped ; but the majority of them are always present.
Helix aspersa MUiler.
This form, introduced from Europe, is very abundant in the environs of the city of Mexico (61585), especially in the jjark at Chapultepec.
Helix?
(Praticola) griseola Pfr.
Vera Cruz (61534).
Genus POLYGYEA (Say) Pilsbrr.
Equals, in part, Anchistoma Ads., Tryon, Fischer and others.
Includes as sections, Pohjgyra, Mesodon, Triodopsis, etc.
I have adopted Pohjgyra as the name for that group of Americar.
Helices characterized by a horn-colored striate shell, with reflected white peristome, usually toothed within ; ribbed jaw ; genitalia simple, without dart-sac or appendages other than the essential organs, penis without flagellum, duct of the spermatheca short.
See, on this genus, Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila.
1889, p. 193.
Polygyra sp.
Yautepec (61554).
Fragments only.
<ienus PATULA Held.
This world-wide distributed genus is characterized bv a discoidal or conical striated shell, usually broadly umbilicated, having a simple sharp lip, not thickened within or reflexed, and by the simple genitalia.
Many of the species are viviparous.
A host of sectional names have been proposed, mostly for groups, of but little systematic value.
I regard Acanthinula as a section oi Patiilu.
Tropical America is inhabited by a group of thin-shelled lightcolored forms of Patida known as Microphysa.
This name being preoccupied, we ma}'^ substitute Thymnophora Strebel, proposed for Mexican species allied most intimatelv to P. incrustata Poev, etc 21.
Of this name, Acanthinida Strebel (not Beck) and Ftychopatula Pilsbry, as well as Microphysa Martens (preoc.)
must be considered synonyms.
Microconus of Strebel is very closely allied, but it may perhaps be considered closer to the section Discus o£ Patula.
The genus Patula has been much more minutely sub-divided than the existing modifications warrant.
Patula coactiliata For.
Tunkas (61489) ; Labna (61488).
Patula Hermanni Pfr.
Hills 500 ft. above Orizaba (61536).
This species has a peculiar aperture.
The dentition should be examined.
It may prove to belong elsewhere than in Patula.
Patula paleosa .'^trebol.
Hills 500 ft. above Orizaba (61556).
Patula granum Strebel.
A specimen apparently of this species but of a clear whitish color was collected at Progreso, Yucatan (Qlbbb).
Patula conspurcatella Morelet.
Merida (61490), Tunkas (61491) aud Tekanto (61487), Yucatan ; Vera Cruz, ^Mexico (61492).
I am unable to sepai'ate the Vera Cruz specimens from those from Yucatan.
Patula impura Pfr.
Vera Cruz (61557) Yautepec (61558) Mexico.
This differs from P. conspurcatella in lacking the delicate, very oblique cuticular folds usually visible on that species, if I am right in my indentification of it.
I believe the Thysanophora impura of Strebel to=P.
conspurcatella.
These species are very closely allied to the Patula (" Microphysa ") incrustata Poey, a species ranging along the Gulf coast from Texas to Florida, originally described from Cuba.
Patula intonsa Pilsbry, n. sp.
(PI.
XV.
fig;;, l, 2.
?>.)
Shell very small, narrowly umbilicated, thin, chestnut-brown, semi-globose.
A\'horls 4, well rounded, separated by very deeply impressed sutures.
Apex obtuse ; last whorl rounded at the j^eriphery.
Surface smooth, very lightly striatulate, having long, whitish, sparsely scattered, delicate hairs, usually rubbed off except at the sutures.
Aperture slightly oblique, oval, parietal wall a little flatteiied.
Lip sharp, acute, very sliglitly expanded at the columelhir margin.
Alt.
2, diam.
I'S mill.
The specimens were collected at Orizaba, Mexico (61986).
The sparsely scattered, partly deciduous hairs are peculiar and characteristic.
Family PUPIDJE.
Genus PUPA Drap.
(Section Bifidaria Sterki.)
Pupa contracta Say.
Typical specimens were collected at Orizaba (61433), and at Yautepec (61432).
Pupa servilis (Juuld.
Merida, Yucatan (61435); Yautepec, Mex.
(61434).
Specimens have been examined by Dr. V. Sterki, who considers them true servilis.
The Yautepec specimens are a trifle slenderer and paler than usual.
(ienus ETJCALODIUM Crosse &, Fi.scher.
Eucalodium i Coelocentrum) filicosta Slmtthv.
Hills around Orizaba (61519).
Family BULIMULID^.
(Ienus BULIMULUS (Leach) Auct.
Bulimulus tropicalis Morelet.
Piuins of Labna, Yucatan (61544).
Bulimulus Dysoni Pfr.
Tabi, Yucatan (61514).
Bulimulus sp.
A large number of species of this genus were collected, which the writer has not yet determined.
Family CYLINDRELLIDJE.
(ienus CYLINDEELLA Pfr.
It is evident that a number of the Cylindrellas of Central America will prove to be merely local races; the distinctions do not seem to be at all well defined.
Cylindrella speluncae Pfr.
(Pi.
XV, figs.
1.3.
1.3a.)
{C. costitlata Morel., not C. B. Ad.i The specimens collected seem to connect this species with C morini Morel.
The localities are: Cave at Tabi (61517); Ticul (61987) ; between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61518).
C. speluncae Pfr., var.
dubia Pilsbry, n. var.
(PI.
XV, figs.
14, 14a.)
A more slender form, always truncated and decidedly smaller, measuring alt.
10, greatest diam.
H to 2 mm., having 12 or 13 Avhorls remaining, was collected at Labna, Yucatan.
There are 17 or 18 riblets on the penultimate whorl, about the same number that the specimens of speluncce before me possess.
Cylindrella Bourguignatiana Aneey.
(PI.
XV.
figs.
1.
'), 13a.)
Annales de Malncologie II, p. 243, 1884-86.
This Species has not heretofore been figured.
The specimens before me (six in number) ai'e part of the original lot collected by Mr. Charles Torrey Simpson on the i.sland of Utilla, Honduras.
The species is allied to C. speluncce, moriiii and subttlis, but is always truncated, having nine or ten whorls remaining; it is compact in form.
There are 17 riblets on the ^penultimate whorl; the base is pinched into an acute carina.
Two specimens measure : — Alt.
lOi, greatest diam.
2^ mm., whorls 10.
Alt.
10, greatest diam.
2n mm., whorls 9.
The base is not so much narrowed as it is in C. speluncce, etc., and the shell is wider than C. speluncce var.
dubia.
Genus MACROCERAMUS (iuilding.
Macroceramus concisus Morelet.
A very abundant species in Yucatan.
Specimens were collected at Izamal (61785), Merida (61553), Tekanto (61552), Tunkas (61551), between Tunkas and Sitilpech (61786), Ticul (61575), Uxmal (61784), Santa Ana, near Calcehtok (61576).
This species .seems to be slenderer than M. Gossei, but it is excessively variable in length.
Macroceramus Gossei var.
arctispirus Ancey, (Annales de ^lalac.
II, p. 242) described from the island of Utilla, is a small form of this species, exactly corresponding with the smaller specimens which occur with typical concisus at Merida, Tekanto, Tunkas, and other localities.
Specimens collected by Simpson are before me, being a part of the original lot.
Macroceramus pontificus <ild.
A single immature specimen collected at Orizaba (61576) may be referred to this species, although with some doubt.
Family LIGUID^.
(ienu.-' Liguus .Muntf.
1810, (Subgenus Orthalicus Beck, 1S37.)
This genus i;» in great confusion owing to the great variability of the shells and the presence of intermediate forms connecting a number of the described species.
Orthalicus princeps ISrod.
Vera Cruz, (61538).
Specimens a little slenderer, but which seem to be not specifically distinct were collected in Yucatan at Shkolak (61539), Ticul (61541), between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61537) and at Silam (61542j.
Orthalicus Ferussaci Martens.
Shkolak (61532) and Tekanto (61540), Yucatan.
Specimens which seem to belong to this species are in the collection of the Academy from Mazatlan.
Orthalicus melanocheilus Val.
ilSSa).
One of the most distinct species of the genus, described originally from " New Spain. "
The Florida specimens differ from the Mexican and Central American in a number of characters and seem to me perfectly distinct as a geographic variety.
0. melanocheilus var.
Floridensis Pilsbry, n. var.
Shell white or slightly stained with brown, having no longitudinal zigzag flames.
The body-whorl has three narrow brown bands, the upper one often broken into spots.
There is a black varix on the penultimate whorl, and one or two on the body-whorl.
The varices are generally not visible icithiu the aperture, but the three spiral bands are conspicuous there.
Lip bordered with blackish-brown ; columella white-edged, but parietal callus deep-brown.
The types of this variety are from near Cape Sable, Florida.
The synonymy of my variety includes: Bulimxs zebra W. G. Binney, Terr.
Moll.
V. S. Vol.
IV, PI.
Ixxviii, fig.
12.
0. zebra W. G. B.
& T.
Bid., Land and Orthalicus melanocheilus var.
Flori__, , i n r> -v-r » it densis.
Fresh-water shells or iS.
A. vol.
1, p. 216, figs, 370, 371, 0. tmdatus W. G. B., Manual of N. A.
Land shells, p. 440, %.
483.
Family STENOGYRIDJE Fischer.
Genus RUMINA Risso, 182fi.
Rumina iSubulinai trochlea Pfr.
Abundant at Izanial, Yucatan (61496).
It is certainly only a variety of S. octona.
Rumina Opeas) Caracasensis Rve.
Hills around Orizaba ; and at Vera Cruz.
Family SUCCINEIDJE.
Genus SUCCINEA Druj,.
Succinea luteola (Jould.
Progreso, Yucatan (61495).
Succinea >]>.
A slender species, quite fragile and light brown in color, was collected at Santa Ana, near Calcehtok, Yucatan.
(61546.)
Succinea ?p.
San Juan, near Vera Cruz (61548).
A single poor specimen.
Succinea campestris Say.
Specimens which I am unable to separate from this species were collected at Lake Texcoco, near the City of Mexico.
(61541.)
Family AURICULIDiE.
(ienus CARYCHIUM Mull.
Carycliium exiguum var.
Mexicanum Pilsbiy.
n. var.
(pi.
XIV, figs.
7,8, 9).
The Nautilus, iv (ii), May, 1S91.
Shell minute, cylindrical, tapering above to an obtuse apex ; waxen whitish, somewhat translucent ; whorls 42, convex, separated by rather deep sutures.
Aperture one-third the length of the shell, rather oblique ; outer lip expanded, thin above, suddenly becoming very much thickened on its outer portion by a heavy deposit of callus upon its face and inner edge ; coluraellar margin having an obtuse projection (scarcely a tooth) below, and an acute entering f(jld above.
Surface having very delicate oblique stride of growth.
Alt.
1*8, diara.
'8 mm.
Hills around Orizaba, at an altitude of about 500 feet above the town.
In The Nautilus for 1891, vol.
IV, p. 109, I gave a brief uotice of the forms of Carychium found within the United States.
In my study of the ^lexican specimens I was obliged to go over the whole subject anew, and to examine very extensive suites of American specimens.
In the present condition of our knowledge, so far as the collections examined permit me to see, three species may be distinguished and two varieties ; viz.
C. exiguum, C. exiguum var.
Mexicanum, C. exile, C. exile var.
Jamaicensis, and C. occidentalis.
Only the collection of specimens from points geographically intermediate between the extremes of the range of this genus, and the examination of such material by a competent person, can finally decide the question of the number of naturally defined species, and which, if any of them, must be considered geographic races or subspecies.
Carychium exiguum .^ay.
(PI.
XIV, figs.
1, 2, .3; pi.
XV, fig.
Ki.)
Shell cylindrical, the last two whorls of about equal diameter.
AVhorls 45.
Aperture decidedly over one-third the total altitude.
Outer lip sinuous, moderately thickened, very strongly arcuate at its upper outer portion.
This is the common East American form, ranging from ]\Iaine southward and westward, the limits of its range not exactly determined as yet.
Carychium exiguum var.
Mexicanum PiNbry (PI.
XIV, figs.
7, 8.
9.)
Shell cylindrical.
Whorls 4^.
Aperture equal to, or a trifle exceeding one-third the total altitude of shell.
Outer lip thickened at and beloic the middle by a very heavy deposit of callus upon its face.
Lower fold of the columella sub-obsolete.
Surface delicately striated.
Orizaba, Mexico.
Carychium occidentalis Pilsbry i Pi.
XIV, tigs.
4, 5, 6.)
Shell distinctly conical, tapering.
Whorls 5.
Aperture very oblique, larger than in C. exiguum, the outer lip flatly expanded, thin, not at all thickened on its face.
Portland, Oregon, is the only locality from which I have seen this species.
Carychium exile H. C Lea.
(PI.
XIV, figs.
10, 11, 12, 13, 14.)
Shell elongated.
Whorls 5-5 j. Aperture small, very oblique, about one-third the length of the shell.
Outer lip more or less thickened.
Surface closely, regularly and very distinctly striated.
Eastern Pennsylvania (H. C. Lea) ; Kent, Ohio (Geo.
W.
Dean.)
Lea found this form on the Wissahickon Creek, near Philadelphia, but I have not been able to rediscover it there.
Carychium exile viir.
Jamaicensis Pilsbry 'PI.
XIV, figs.
1.
"), 16.)
Mucli elongated, similar to C. exile, but the surface smooth, not perceptibly striated.
Jamaica (Robert Swift collection).
Genus MELAMPTJS Montf.
Melampus coffea L. Progreso and Silani (61470), Yucatan.
Melampus coffea var.
microspira I'ilsbrv n. var.
Distinctly shouldered, spire extremely short, the earlier whorls very closely coiled, the last whorl becoming wide ; color uniform pinkisholive.
Alt.
13 mm., diam 82 mm., length of aperture 12 mm.
Progreso, Yucatan (61471).
Family LIMNJEID^.
Genus LIMN5:A l.am.
Limnaea attenuata Say.
Lake Chalco, Mexico (61483).
This common form bears the same relation to our northern L. reflexa, that Planorhis tenuis bears to PL trivolvis.
Limnaea Cubensis Pfr.
Rather small specimens of this were collected in the stream at Orizaba (61482 and 61481).
They vary much in the degree of exsertion of the spire.
A few notes on the synonymy of this and allied species may not be out of place here.
The L. umbilicata C. B.
Ad.
is completely synonymous with L. Cubensis.
Havana specimens of the latter are absolutely indistinguishable from the Vermont L. ambilicaia in our collection, received fi'om Professor Adams himself L. Cubensis (-jumbilicata) is perfectly distinct from L. eaperata Say, and from L. humilis Say, with both of which it has been confused by some authors.
The typical Cubensis ranges at least as far west as the Mississippi River, and eastern Texas.
West and southwest of this it gives place to L. techella Hald., and L. bulimoides Lea.
The last form may be considered a geographic race or subspecies of the Cubensis.
L. techella Hald.
is nearly identical with umbilicata.
The synonymy and range of the forms mentioned may 1)6 summarized as foUow.s : L. Cubensis Pfr.
Syn.
: L. iimhilicata C. B.
Ad.
; L techella Halil.
Habitat : Xew England to Cuba ; westward to St. Louis, Missouri, southwest to Texas and Province of Vera Cruz, Mexico.
L. Cubensis \ ar.
bulimoides Lea.
Haliitat : Western U. S., east to Dakota, Central Nebraska (at Ogallala, coll.
by Simpson), and Western Texas.
The European h. truncatula Miill.
is scarcely separable from Cubensis in conchological characters.
I have retained the European and American forms separate because their areas of distribution are now so distinct that interbreeding can no longer occur.
The L. humilis Say is likely to be confused with small examples of L. Cubensis, but it differs in having the expansion of the columella much narrower and of a wholly different form.
Say's types of L. humilis are before me.
(ienus ANCYLTIS Geoff.
Ancylus excentricus Morelet.
Shkolak, Yucatan (61787).
I may mention here that Ancylus excentricus Morelet has been collected in Comal Creek at New Braunfels, Texas, and therefore may be expected throughout Eastern Mexico.
The same is true of Planorhis cultratus Orb., which I have also received from Southern Texas.
(ienus PLANORBIS ' Guettard.
Planorbis tenuis Phil.
An abundant species in the vicinity of the City of Mexico (61607 ; 61780; 61781; 61625).
The form called var.
Boucardi by Crosse & Fischer intergrades perfectly with the typical tennis in Lake Chalco.
In Lake Patzcuaro a form was collected which is referable to P. tenuis v. Boucardi, but in which the characters of that variety are considerably exaggerated.
One of these (No.
61625 of the collection) is figured 1 Planorbis glabrattis Say has not been found in Mexico; nor does it range in the United States, outside of the peninsula of Florida.
The P. glabratus of authors is not the trut g/abraius of Say.
on pi.
XV, fig.
4.
See, in this connection, the remarks under Physa Patzmarensis.
Planorbis Caribseus Orb.
Shkolak, Yucatan (61778).
The specimens correspond in ev^ery detail with Havana examples of P. CaribcEus received from Arango.
Planorbis tumidus Pt'r.
Vera Cruz (61775; 61591); Orizaba (61779).
Planorbis Maya Moielet.
Merida, Yucatan (61538; 61529).
These are larger than indicated by MM.
Crosse & Fischer, measuring, alt.
2|, diam.
raaj.
IH,.
diani.
niin.
9 mm.
Planorbis orbiculus Morelet (1S49).
(Syn.
PL Haldemani Dkr., 1S50, not C. B.
Ad.
1849.)
San Juan, near Vera Cruz (61593).
Planorbis Liebmanni I»kr.
Vera Cruz.
A form closely allied to the preceding, but smaller, with the last Avhorl wider.
I regard the identification as undoubtedly correct.
This species occurs in Texas also, as far north as Austin.
Planorbis retusus Morelet ?
Specimens probably referable to this species were collected at Shkolak, Yucatan (61777).
Planorbis parvus !^ay.
Specimens in every respect typical were collected at Yautepec, Mexico (61592).
Genus PLANORBULA llald.
Planorbula obstructa Morelet.
Ticul, Yucatan (61589).
This species occurs abundantly in Texas as fiir north as Austin.
Family PHYSID^ Dall.
Genus PHYSA I»rap.
The Mexican Physse have been referred by MM.
Crosse & Fischer to six species, as follows: Mexicana Phil., Boucardi C. & F.,Strebeli C, & F., Berendti Dkr., squalida Morelet and Tehuantepecensis C. & F. Of these names, Boucardi is a synonym of osculans {=Mexicana, vid.
infra) ; Strebeli, Berendti and Tehuantepecensis are very closely allied to squaUda, being perhaps only local forms.
A critical review of the Physse of the United States^ causes me to recognize in that area eleven species and about the same number of local forms or geographic races susceptible of diagnosis.'
Most Mexican specimens of Physa differ from those of the Eastern United States in lacking a thickening or rib within the lipmargin in the adult state.
This is probably due to the far less amount of difference between the seasons, and the consequent lack of periodicity of growth in the shells.
This peculiarity extends, as might be expected, to the Californian species ; but in some arid localities, aestivation during the season of excessive drought produces practically the same shell-structure as that caused by the winter hybernation of our Northern Physie.
Physa osculans Ilald.
LakeChalco, City of Mexico (61627); City of Mexico (61584 and 61586) ; Lake Texcoco (61585) ; Between San Angel and Coyoacan, south of the City of Mexico (61587); Yautepec (61788 and 61526).
An examination of Haldeman's types of Physa osculans (Monog.
Limniades, pi.
2, figs.
11, 12), renders it certain that the Physa Mexicana of Philippi is synonymous.
The fig.
13 of Haldeman's plate is a different species, as the author of the Monog.
Limniades himself supposed.
The Physa Boucardi of Crosse and Fischer is likewise a mere form (no!
a variety) of osculans, the alleged differences having no specific or varietal weight, whatever, in this genus.
Physa osculans is readily distinguishable from the eastern forms P. hetrostropha, Integra and gyrina ; but several described Californian Physas present no differences from the Mexican species, and must be considered synonyms.
Physa osculans vur.
Patzcuarensis Pilsbry.
n. var.
(PI.
XV, fig.
5. i Shell thin, light, obcouic, very broad across the upper part of the body-whorl, narrow below ; spire short, small, acute, composed of four rapidly enlarging whorls, the first one black.
Columella long, vertical, slightly sinuous ; lip strongly arcuate above, thin ; color light-brown or whitish ; surface shining, wholly lacking spiral lines, ^ ?>te Shells of Furest and Stream, a handbook of Northern United States land and fresh-water shell-, now in preparation.
* During the course of my studies of U. S. Physa I have examined type specimens of almost every one of the described species, nearly fifty in number.
obscurely and finely longitudinally plicated.
There are no varieeal thickenings, no internal lip-rib, and the surface is nowhere malleated.
Alt.
15, diain.
11 ; alt.
of apert.
12?, greatest width 6 J mm.
Lake Patzcuaro, Mexico (61629).
Animals of the same suite in alcohol.
This shell resembles the more extreme forms of Pliysa ancillaria Say (known as PA. LordI Bd.
and Ph.
Parkeri Cur.)
; and it perhaps bears the same relation to Ph.
osculans Hald.
that Ph.
ancillariav, Lordi bears toward Ph.
heterostropha.
The relation of my new form to the boreal American types named is, however, only one of analogy ; for the Lordi is demonstrably an extreme development of the heterostropha type, while my Mexican shells belong to the group of PA. oscwZans, being in my opinion a geographic race of that species.
The cause of the dilation of the body-whorl in these shouldered Physas has not been explained.
I would suggest that the form in these cases is correlated with an increase in the capacity of the air sack or lung, which occupies that part of the shell.
Observation of tlie habits of the snail would probably reveal the reason for this additional lung capacity.
It is not unlikely the result of a more continous or ])rolonged subaquatic residence.
Precisely the same modification is found in the Planorbis before me from this same Mexican lake (Patzcuaro), evidently induced by the action of the same causes.
Physa squalida Morelet.
Orizaba (61530; 61583; 61598; 61581); Vera Cruz (61582).
A very abundant species at Orizaba.
This is the Mexican representative of the Physa Integra of Haldeman, a species usually confounded in the United States with P. heterostropha Say.
I have compared the Orizaba specimens with squalida received from Morelet.
This species frequently exhibits varieeal thickenings (indicating former peristomes), like its Northern ally P. integra.
In this respect it differs from PA. osculans.
The more lengthened forms of Ph.
squalida resemble somewhat Ph.
pomilia Conrad.
Uenus APLEXA Flem.
The number of Mexican species of this geinis has been about fifty per cent over-estimated by Crosse and Fischer.
This opinion is founded on an examination of many specimens, and I express it -with all due respect to the authors named.
They seem to have overlooked the description and figure of Physa (^Aplexa) princeps Phillips, described from Yucatan, in tlie Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, III, p. 66, pi.
1, fig.
11 (May, 1846).
The figure is very good.
Aplexa cisternina Morelet.
Izamal (61601), Tekanto (61599), Shkolak (61770) and :\rerida (61524), Yucatan.
Aplexa nitens Phil.
Vera Cruz; San Juan, near Vera Cruz (61771).
Aplexa nitens var.
spiculata Morel.
Merida, Yucatan (61600).
Aplexa sp.
Shkolak (61772, 61773).
Forms I have been unable to identify.
Family CYCLOPHORID^.
(iemis CYCLOTUS (niilding.
Cyclotus Dysoni Pfr.
One of the most abundant land shells of northern Yucatan.
It was collected at Silam (61458; 61461).
Shkolak (61459), Tekanto (61452), Labna (61435), Tunkas (61452), Ticul (61460), Sitilpech (61462), Tabi (61463), and between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61457).
The specimens from Tabi, Ticul and some other localities are prettily varied by numerous dark spiral lines and bands ; these may be named form multUineatus.
Many specimens have the costuke of the surface simple, not all undulating, not anastomosing.
Cyclophorus (Cyrtotoma) — 1 Two broken specimens of a species apparently new, were collected at Orizaba (61486).
Family AMPULLAEIID^.
fienus AMPULLARIA Lam.
AmpuUaria flagellata Say.
My examination of Say's type of this species proves that ^1.
mulleata Jonas is a synonym.
The specimen, now before me, upon which Say founded hi?
species, is a dead shell, lacking the epidermis ; it is moderately but not conspicuously malleated, and on the latter part of the body-wliorl obscurely plicated in the direction of the lip-edge.
It is multifasciate with brown.
The species is excessively abundant in the environs of Vera Cruz (whence Say procured it).
It varies widely in respect to sculpture and color, but the numerous Vera Cruz specimens before me are rather constant in size, agreeing in the main with Say's type, which measures as follows: — Alt.
38 mm.
; diam.
35 mm.
; greatest length of mouth 32 mm.
; width of mouth (measured at a right angle to its length) 21i mm.
The aperture of this specimen is expanded, — a variation not uncommon in the series before me from Vera Cruz.
(No's.
61447, 61446, 61448, Acad.
Coil.)
The illustrations given by Crosse it Fischer on pi.
44, figs.
6, 6a, 6b, 6c, 6d and 6e, of the Exped.
Scientifique du Mex., represent the species as found around Vera Cruz, but smoother forms are also abundant, and spiral dark bands are visible on most specimens.
AmpuUaria sp.
San Juan, near Vera Cruz (61450).
AmpuUaria Yucatanensis Crosse & Fischer.
"Twin cenotas," Shkolak, Yucatan (61456).
Family VALVATID^.
Genus VALVATA Miill.
Of this genus six species are found on the mainland of Xorth America.
Valvata humeralis Say.
Lakes around the City of Mexico (61484).
Lake Patzcuaro, West Mexico (61444) The specimens from the last locality I at first regarded as a distinct species; but making due allowance for the modification undergone by all species of snails found in this lake, I am disposed to consider it a variety of humeralis.
Compared with Say's type specimen of the latter, the L. Patzcuaro shells have the whorls more rapidly increasing, the last whorl being notably of greater diameter than, the corresponding volution of humeralis ; the umbilicus is narrower, the subsutural fiattening, so obvious in Say's shell, is not at all conspicuous.
The obtuse basal carina is as in the type.
No good figure of /iwmera/id' has-been published, that given by Strebel having the spire too much raised ; it is rather obtuse in the shells before me from the City of" Mexico, as well as in Say's type; tlie exact locality of the latter is not given on the label, which is in the fine hand-writing of Mrs. Say, like many of Say's labelled types.
Results of great importance to l)iology might be derived from a study of the conditions of life in Lake Patzcuaro ; the shells of various genera seem to be modified in such definite directions that the problem of the origin of certain forms would probably be presented to the observer in comparatively simple terms.
It is unfortunate that although some hundreds of shells of various species were collected there by Prof. Heilprin and Mr. Baker, their limited time did not permit them to gather information on the physical char.acteristics of the lake.
Family AMNICOLID^ Tryon.i (ienus POTAMOPYRGUS Stimj.-on.
This genus of spinose rissoids is represented throughout Central America and the West Indies by numerous forms ; also extending into Northern South America, and to the northward ranging as far as Comal County, Texas.
The species are excessively polymorphic, and their number can onlv be ascertained after a great numl)er of specimens have been examined.
^\s a rule, without exception, every species (or variety, whichever the forms prove to be) is dimorphic ; there is a spinose, angulate form, and an acuminate, ecarinate one.
Generally both are found in the same locality.
This curious dimorphism has caused at least two names to be applied to every species or form.
Thus, Paladina crystallina Pfr.
is the ecarinate form of P. coronata Pfr.
; Hydrobia Texana Pilsbry bears a like relation to P. spmosa Call & Pilsbrv, etc., etc.
Potamopyrr/us is a genus of great antiquity, extending at least as far back as the early eocene.
It now" comprises all of the freshwater rissoids of New Zealand, a majority of those of Australia, with species in west Africa and tropical America.
As a contribution to the life-history of these interesting little snails, I may mention that the form discovered by me in Texas, P. (^coro)iatus yar f) spinosus C. it P., is viviparous.
The young are globular, translucent, having a little over one whorl at birth.
1 As a seciional term under Amm'co/a I would propose the name CincinNATIA for A. Cincinnaliensis, founding ihe distinction upon its more minute .radula and tiie far liner denticulatiou of the teeth.
As to the number of naturally defined Neotropical species lam in doubt ; but the examination of my material (including as many as a pint of the shells of some species) causes me to believe that there are about four or five, although this may possibly be either over or under estimated.
I do not undertake here a revision of them for the reason that Crosse and Fischer have already reached the Hydrobiidse in the progress of their magnificent work.
Ancey's Pyrgophorus (Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
Fr.
v, p. 188, 192, 1888) is a synonym of Potamopyrgus.
Curiously enough, iSIr.
Ancey does not seem to be aware that any spinose rissoids had been described from America !
He proposes the name P. coronatus {de novo, not of Pfeitfer), for the form found at Vera Cruz, which Strebel calls P. coronatus Pfeifter.
This form is doubtless the same as my P. spinosus from Texas, but it is doubtfully distinct from the species as fuund further South.
Potamopyrgus coronatus Pfr.
Var.
Highly sculptured forra.s, probably referalde to this species were collected at Shkolak (61595), Merida (61597) and between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61576), in Yucatan.
Potamopyrgus Bakeri Pilsbry.
n. sp.
(pi.
XV, figs.
9.
10.
11.)
F. Bakeri Filsbry.
The Nautilus iv, May, 1891.
Shell slender, elongated, tapering, the altitude more than twice the diameter.
AVhorls 5i, very convex, separated by deeply impressed sutures; apex somewhat obtuse.
Aperture small, ovate, its length contained more than three times in the length of the shell ; peristome continuous, thin.
Umbilicus a closed rimation behind the inner lip.
Surface marked by delicate growth-lines, having low, inconspicuous longitudinal folds (sometimes quite regular and well marked on the upper whorls), and encircled by numerous fine, subobsolete spiral strije.
Alt.
4, diam.
1*9 mm.
Dug from the bank of a stream east of Yautepec, Mexico.
(61578).
The specimens being subfossil are denuded of the epidermis and white in color.
They are in sculpture not unlike some feebly sculptured forms of that truly protean species Tryonia protea Gld., but are readily distinguishable from that type specifically, and even, as I believe, generically ; for the present species seems to me to bean aspinose form of Potamopyrgus, differing from all other known species and forms of that genus in its much more slender, narrow contour.
I liave given the name in recognition of the services of Mr. F. C. Baker, who collected the specimens.
(4enus PYRGULOPSIS Call &.
Pilsbry.
Pioc.
Davenport Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
vol.
v, p. 9, May, 1886.
This genus was proposed for a number of small shells which agree in being ovate-conical or turreted, the whorls having a single strong carina at the periphery, which may or may not be concealed on the spire.
The ajjex is acute.
There are 4V to 6 whorls.
Apertnre ovate, peristome continuous.
Axis imperforate.
The dentition is figured in the place cited above.
The genus has nothing to do with Fyrgula, which belongs to a different subfamily (Baikaliince)?
Lyrodus of Doring" may prove more nearly related.
It has been suggested to me that the finding of carinate forms of P. Nevadensis proves that the carinate forms are distorted by the influence of the concentrated waters of the lakes inhabited by the species ; but would any malacologist seriously advocate the view that the smooth spineless forms of Potamopyrgus hold a like relation to the spinose, carinate types?
or that the two Mississippi Valley species of Pyrgulopsis (found in company with perfectly normal specimens of Amnicola, Bytliinella, etc.)
owe their carinate contours to the same cause ?
Besides the original illustrated monograph of this genus by Professor Call and myself in the Proceedings of the Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences for 1886,'^ there has been an "Etude monographique du genre Pyrg}dopsis" (Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
France, v, p. 185) written by Mr. C. F. Ancey.
This paper shows in a high degree the futility of writing about things an author knows nothing about.
The species of this genus are as follows : — p. Nevadensis Stearns.
Pyrotda Nevadensis Stearns, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 17.S, figure, (1883).
—Call and Beeclier, Am.
Nat., Sept. 1884, Vol.
XVIII., pp.
851-85o.— Call, Bull.
U. S. Geol.
Survey, No.
11.
1884.
Pyrgulopsis Nevadetisis Call & Pilsbry, Proc.
Dav.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Vol.
V, p. 10, 1886.— Ancey, Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
Fr.
1888, p. 189.
This form has been found thus far only in northwestern Nevada, in Walker and Pyramid Lakes.
Entirely smooth forms, not dis1 Beecher is wholly in error in referring Pyrgula to the Melaniida ; a family distinguished from AmnicolidcB and Rissoidcz tiy the most obvious external characters, such, for instance, as the genitalia.
* Doring, in Boktin de la Acad.
Nac.
de Cien.
en Cordoba, vii, p. 461,1885 3 In this paper, Potamopyrgus spinosus was considered a Pyrgulopsis.
I had at that time not yet examined its dentition.
See under Potamopyrgus.
22 tiuguishable from Amnicola have been found.
The species is not closely allied to the two following, either of which it would be better to regard as the type of the genus.
P. scalariformis Wolf.
Pyrgula scalariformis Wolf, Amer.
Jouni.
of Conch, vol.
v. p. 198, pi.
xvii, fig.
3.
1869.
Pyrgulopsis scalariformis Call & Pilsbry, Proc.
Dav.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., vol.
v, p. 14, 188(5.
— Pilsbry, Shells of Forest and' Stream, pi.
14, fig.
2«.
— Ancey, Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
Fr.
1888, p. 190.
For description and figures see Shells of Forest and Stream (in preparation).
It has been found only at the original locality, " on the Tazewell shore of the Illinois River."
No living specimens have been taken.
This species it would be best to regard as the type of Pyrgulo'psiB.
P. Mississippiensis Call k Pilsbry.
Pyrgula scalariformis var.
Mississippiensis Pilsbry, Amer.
Naturalist, Jan. 1886; p. 75.
Pyrgulopsis Mississippiensis Call & Pilsbrv, Proc.
Dav.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
vol.
v, p. 13, 188B.— Ancey, Bull.
Soc.
Mai.
France, 1888, p. 191.— Pilsbry, Shells of Forest and Stream, pi.
14, figs.
23, 24, 25.
Of this species I have examined very many specimens, dredged by myself in the Mississippi River, at and just below the mouth of Rock River, Illinois.
It has characters constantly separating it from the scalariformis.
Both are figured and described in my handbook of northern U. S. moUusks, Shells of Forest and Stream.
The following species is referred provisionally to Pyrgulopsis ou account of its similarity in contour to the shells of that genus.
In possessing fine spiral lines it resembles Potaonopyrgus ; and if it is found to have the very characteristic dental characters of the last named genus, and is viviparous, it must be transferred.
Pyrgulopsis ( 1 ) Patzcuarensis Pilsbry n. sp.
(Pi.
XV, fig.
8).
The Nautilus, May, 1891.
Shell turrited-conic, elevated.
Number of whorls unknown, the specimen being broken ; the remaining 3 J whorls are strongly carinated in the middle, concave immediately above and below the keel ; the last whorl is obtusely shouldered midway between keel and suture, and the median carina becomes less conspicuous.
The aperture is oval, not oblique ; peristome continuous, its inner margin thickened.
Umbilicus reduced to a narrow fissure.
Color of epidermis olive ; surface marked by delicate growth lines and excessively fine close spiral striae.
Alt.
5'2, diam.
3 mm.
; Alt.
of apert.
2, width r3 mm.
Lake Patzcuai'o, Mexico (61588).
This form is so distinct that I unhesitatingly describe it, although no perfect specimens were obtained.
In general form the shell recalls the P. Nevadensis Stearns, described from Pyramid Lake, Nevada ; but the encircling carina is less strong, the portion of the whorl above the keel is much more convex.
The fine spiral sculpture of the Mexican shell also distinguishes it.
Genus COCHLIOPA Tiyon.
Cochliopa Tryoniana Pilsbry, (pi.
XV.
fig.
12 .)
C. Tryoniana Pilsbry, The Nautilus iv, p. 52, September, 1890.
Figures are here given of this species, which is the second of the genus described.
It is from Polvon and Rio Fula, Nicaragua.
A large number of specimens are before me.
They vary gr'eatly in form and sculpture.
Sometimes the body-whorl is acutely^carinated, and the surface encircled with numerous acute lirul«, but on some specimens this sculpture is almost obsolete.
Old specimens become thick and solid, losing to a great extent, the spiral sculpture.
The measurements of two specimens are as follows : Alt.
4, greater diam.
4i, lesser 4 mill.
Alt.
3J, greater diam.
4, lesser 3^ mill.
Family CYCLOSTOMID^.
Genus CHONDEOPOMA Pfr.
Chondropoma (Cistula) Largillierti Pfr.
An extremely abundant species in northern Yucatan.
After examining several hundred specimens I find that a separation of the more coarsely ribbed forms from the finely decussated examples is not practicable, and I therefore agree with Dr. von Martens in uniting the Cistula Grateloupi to C. Largillierti.
The apex is sometimes retained perfect in adult specimens of this species, several of these anomalous individuals being before me.
The exact localities are: Labna (61472), Santa Ana, near Calcehtok (61473), Silam (61416), Merida (61466), Tekanto (61468, 61467), Tunkas (61464), Uxmal (61463), between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61475), and at Tabi (61474).
The polymorphism of this species is wonderful.
Adult specimens vary in length from 17 J to 9 mm.
The color varies from a clear yellowish-white with numerous rows of brown spots, to dark red.
The shape also is subject to great mutations.
Family HELICINID^.
Genus HELICINA Lam.
Helicina arenicola .Morelet.
A most abundant sj^ecies in northern Yucatan.
The published illustrations very inadequately represent this beautiful species, which is as variable in coloration as the H. orbiculata Say.
Specimens were collected' at Silam (61442), Ticul (61440), Labna (61438), Tabi (61437), Uxmal (61443), Tunkas (61436), Santa Ana near Calcehtok (61439), and between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61441).
Helicina lirata Pfr.
Numerous specimens taken at Labna, Yucatan (61479).
Specimens were collected by Mr. C. T. Simpson at Utilla Island, oif Honduras.
Helicina fragilis Morelet.
Specimens of a sn)all, thin, greenish-horn colored turbinate species were collected at Orizaba (61478), and at Vera Cruz (61477).
The columella is toothed exactly as in Strebel's figures (referred by Martens to this species), but the color is not as described by Strebel.
Helicina cinctella Shutt.
Orizaba (61480).
Helicina beatrix Angas.
This species was not collected by the Expedition.
From an examination of Gabb's specimens I am led to believe that von Martens is in error in referring this species to H. flavida Mke.
Adult specimens of if.
beatrix measure alt.
10, diam.
9 mm., and differ as much from Guatemala specimens oi H. flavida as most Helicinas do from one another — certainly enough for specific discrimination.
The illustrious writer in the Biologia Centr.
Amer.
probably had not seen authentic specimens.
Sub-genus SCHAZICHEILA Shutt.
Schazicbeila alata Mke.
Orizaba (61485).
Family PROSERPINID^.
Genus PROSERPINA Gray.
Proserpina (Ceres) Salleana Cuming.
Both the red and the buflT forms were collected at Orizaba (61455 and 61454).
APPENDIX A.
During the few hours spent in Havana the following species were collected by Mr. Baker : Oleacina solidula Pfr.
(61605).
Stenogyra octona Ch.
(61573).
Patula vortex Pfr.
(61604).
Polygyra paludosa PlV.
Carocolus (Thelidomusi auricoma IVr., var.
zetaPfr.
(61572.)
Bulimulus sj).
Limnaea Cubensis Pfr.
Vaginulus occidentalis Guild.
The specimens were marked by a longitudinal row of angular black spots on each side of the middle, on most individuals coalescentjinto black stripes.
Ampullaria conica Wood.
(61574.)
explanation of plates.
Plate xiv.
Figs.
1, 2.
Carychium exlguum Say, typical.
Drawn from specimens from Kent, Ohio, collected by Geo.
W. Dean.
3.
Carychium exiguum Say, showing umbilicus.
Specimen from Vermont.
4, 5, 6.
Carycidmn occidentaUsVW^Yy.
Portland, Oregon.
7, 8, 9.
Carychium Mexicanum Pilsbry.
Orizaba, Mexico.
, 11.
Carychium exile H. C. Lea.
Kent, Ohio.
12, 13, 14.
Carychium exile Lea.
Specimen with thick peristome.
15, 16.
Carychium exile var.
Jamaicense Pilsbry.
Jamaica.
(Swift Collection).
Note.
The profile views are all drawn with the shell rolled to the left only enough to bring the plane of the inner and outer lips coincident with the line of vision.
The figures of this plate are drawn to the same scale.
Plate xv.
Figs.
1, 2, 3.
Patula intonsa Pilsbry.
Three views of type, specimen, highly magnified.
4.
Planorhis tenuis Phil.
var.
Boucardi C. & F. Lake Patzcuaro, W. Mexico.
Natural size.
5.
Physa osculans Hald, var.
Patzcuarensis Pilsbry.
Lake Patzcuaro.
Natural size.
6.
7.
Oryzosoma Tabiensis Pilsbry.
Magnified view of the type, with profile of aperture.
Hacienda of Tabi, Yucatan.
8.
Pyrgulopsis f Patzcuarensis Pilsbry.
Magnified view of the type.
Lake Patzcuaro, W. Mexico.
9, 10, 11.
Potamopyrgu.s Bakeri Pilsbry.
Three individuals, showiug variation in contour.
12, Cochliopa Tryoniana Pilsbry.
View of a highly sculptured form, enlarged.
13, 13a.
Cylindrella BourguigncCtiana Kwcey.
Utill a Island, off Honduras.
Specimen collected by Chas.
T. Simpson.
14, 14a.
Cylindrella speluncce var.
dubia Pilsbry.
15, 15a.
Cylindrella spelimcce Pfr.
Specimen from Ticul, Yucatan.
16, Carychium exiguum Say.
Specimen broken to show the internal continuation of the columellar folds.
June 2.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Forty persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — " A Memoir on the Genus Palseosyops Leidy, and its allies," by Charles Earle.
"New American Myxomycetes," by Geo.
A. Rex, M. D. Henry C. Chapman, M. D., was elected Curator to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Dr. Leidy.
June 9.
Mr. Chas.
p. Perot in the chair.
Thirty-three persons present.
"A Memoir of Joseph Leidy, M. D., LL.D.," by Henry C. Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication.
June 16.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
June 23.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Twenty-four persons present.
A paper entitled " Description of a new species of Vampyrops," by Harrison Allen, M. D., was presented for publication.
June 30.
Dr. Geo.
H. Horn in the chair.
Twenty-one persons present.
On the Wings of Bats.
— Dr. Harrison Allen spoke of the manner in which the membranes of bats are sustained in the intervals between the several parts of the normal skeleton.
The so called calcaneum is an accessory process to the tarsus and is designed to support the interfemoral membrane.
Dr. Allen proposed to name this process the calcar.
In Vesperugo noctula he had found a process passing down from the calcar, in the form of a delicate rod, midway between the base and the free end.
An accessory cartilage at the side of the tip of the fifth metacarpal bone, was next alluded to.
It is apparently intended to give additional support to the mesopatagium.
It is absent in Pteropodidie, Megadermadidie and Phyllostomididt«.
In Nyderis the terminal segment to the caudal series is widely expanded and serves to support the margin of the interfemoral membrane.
The fact that the preserving of these various minor adaptations is not universal, suggests the conclusion that the mechanism of the flight of the bats is not the same in all the forms, and that something of the same kind of differences that are known to exist in birds, could be detected if the facilities which are available in case of the latter, existed for their investigation.
Wm.
J. Serrill and B. Alexander Randall, M. D., were elected members.
August Weismann of Freiburg, i.
B. and Elias Metschnikoff of Dorpat, were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be published : —
