NEW AND UNFIGURED UNI0NIDAE
BY H. A. PILSBRY.

Unio Quintardii Cragin.
I'l.
Ylf figs.
1 2 3.
This plicate JJnio presents characters which separate it easily from the numerous Avaved species of the Mississippi basin.
The sculpture consists of a series of superimposed Yshaped waYes the apices of the V's directed towards the beaks.
There are some of the narrow impressed furrows crossing the waves at right angles which form so prominent a character of the sculpture of Uiiio undvlahis Barnes.
The cuticle is dark brown with occasional blackish streaks as in other shells of the same group.
The beaks are eroded and the nacre white.
Other characters are shown in the figure which is drawn from the original type.
This species is from Salt Creek a tributary of the Deep Fork of the Canadian river.
Sac and Fox Reservation Oklahoma Territory.
A description of this shell was published by Prof. F. W. Cragin in the Bulletin of the Washburn College Laboratory of Natural History II No.
8 p. 6 October 1887.
It has not before been figured.
Unio Pilsbryi Marsh Plate YIII tigs.
7 8.
Like the last species this is a member of the plicate group of L'niones.
It is a decidedly compressed oblong shell black in color having very distinctly marked lines of growth which are spaced over the greater part of the disc but become crowded on tlie lower margin.
It has numerous oblique waves which generally bifurcate indistinctly toward the posteriorlower end.
The waves are more or less cut by short impressed furrows as in U. undulatus etc.
The nacre is white and very thick anteriorly but in the cavity of the valves and posteriorly it is thin and stained with blue and olivegreen.
The lateral teeth are also olivegreen.
This species was collected by Mr. Elwood Pleas in the Little Red River Arkansas.
It has been described by Mr. Wm.
A. Marsh in the  Nautilus  V. p. 1.
Unio Pilsbryi is not closely allied to any other American species.
It has a striking resemblance to Unio Leai Gray of China.
Specimens including the individual figured are in the exhibit of United States shells in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Arconaia Provancheriana Pilsbry PI.
'ir figs.
4 5 6.
This species has already been briefly noticed in these Proceedings and a description has been published in the  Xautilus  IV p. 127.
It may be compared in the degree and direction of twist to the variety of Arconaia contorta Lea figured by Heude on PI.
XV fig.
32 of his  Conchyliologie fluviatile de la Province de Nanking et de la Chine Centiale  a Chinese species.
The locality of this species is not known positively but it is supposed to be from China.
The type is No.
63094 of the collection of the Philadelphia Academy.
The Arconaia Delaportei of Crosse and Fischer Journal de Conchyliologie 1876 Pis.
X and XI differs decidedly from the present form in outline and in the winged extremities.
A. Provancheriana may indeed prove to belong elsewhere than in Arconaia as it is not at all produced at the ends as are the species hitherto included in that genus or subgenus.
