PRELIMINARY OUTLINE OF A NEW CLASSIFICATION OF THE HELICES.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY

For several years the writer has been accumulating data bearing upon the natural classification of the Helicoid land snails.
It has been thought desirable to place before students of this group some of the general results attained and to invite their friendly criticism.
It will be understood that the consideration of many important points such as the relations of Helices to certain Bulimoid groups must be omitted from so brief and synoptical a paper as this  the author's aim being simply to place before malacologists the outlines of a classification essentially modern and essentially original.
It can scarcely be expected that an arrangement in which most of the traditions of our Fathers in Conchology have been disregarded will prove acceptable to all or indeed in all respects worthy of acceptance  but it is hoped that it will be found an improvement on'previous systems.
The anatomical details of numerous groups herein for the first time described will be figured in the author's more elaborate work now in preparation to be issued in 1893. The notes given below under each genus must not be taken for complete generic diagnoses.
I hold that for the establishment of genera the characters of the shell must be taken into account as well as those of the genital system and of the jaw and lingual ribbon.
For the formation of groups higher than genera certain modifications of the genitalia seem to be most constant and availaThe principal authorities consulted are the following  Binney W. G. Terr.
Moll.
U. S. vol.
V etc.
Pfeffer Georg Beitr.
zur Kenntniss Mex.
1. u. fr.w.
Conch. etc.
Fischer Paul Numerous papers in the Jour de Conch and Moll.
Mex.
et Guat.
Hedley Chas. Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
Queensl.
and Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. W. Hutton F. W. Trans.
N. Z.
Institute.
V. Ihering H. Morphol.u.
Syst.
des Genit.
von Helix.
This paper ihe erser Thiel of which is before me is a very valuable one and indispensable to the student of Pulmonale morphology.
Lehmann Die Lebenden Schn.
Stettins.
Pilsbry H. A. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 18881892.
Schmidt A. Des Geschlechtsap.
der Stylom.
Schako G. Numerous papers.
Semper C Reisen im Archip.
Phil.
Landmoll.
Suter H. Trans.
N. Z.
Institute.
Tapparone Canefri C Annali Mus.
Civ.
Geneva.
388 1892. ble.
Before proceeding with the descrijtions of genera it may be well to describe briefly the organs to be discussed.
In the accompanying figure representing the genitalia of Helix sp.
Caniisnella platyodon Pfr.
plaiyodon Pfr. a species of the island of Hainan the male system is seen branching toward the right the feinale system towaid the left.
The systems unite below forming the vestibule or atrium sometimes called genital cloaca cl.
 and they are also united above  the hermaphrodite gland or ovotestis giving off both spermatozoa and immature ova which travel through the much convoluted hermaphrodite duct or ovisperm duct to the base of the albumen gland where the duct separates into oviduct and vasdeferens.
The penis p is in its simplest form a muscular sack receiving the vasdejerens v. d. and the retractor muscle r. p. at its summit.
There are often developed upon the penis one or more of the following accessory organs 1 the appendix'' a glandular or flagellumlike organ inserted at the middle or near the base of the penis sack see this volume plate 18 fig.
F at x x.
 2 the penispapilla see p. p. of the annexed figure seen only by splitting the muscular penis wall.
This papilla is perforated near its base for the exit of the sperm atophores  3 the epiphallus epi.
 a See V. Ihering Morphol.
u. Syst.
Helix i p. 396.
In the epiphallus the spermatozoa are gathered into variously covered masses or spermatophores.
nenstrecke. Simroth calls the corresponding organ in the slugs the  Patroslender continuation of the penis backward extending to the insertion of the vasdeferens and usually continuing beyond this insertion as a flagellum.
The retractor is sometimes situated upon the epiphallus instead of at the apex of the penis itself this arrangement being shown in the figure here given.
4 1xq flagellum fl.
a whiplash shaped organ inserted upon either the summit of the penis or upon the epiphallus.
The female system consists of the vagina v. which bifurcates to form the spermatheca or receptamilum seminis sp.
 and the uterus a sacculated organ often containing eggs or young in various states of development.
Surmounting the uterus is the albumen secreting gland at the base of which the hermaphrodite duct enters the oviduct and vasdeferens.
Besides the organs above described the female system in some groups possesses a dart sack or sacks secreting a dart and one or two mucous glands these organs being inserted upon the vagina.
Another organ of rai'e occurrence is the appendicula an elongated simple diverticulum also emptying into the vagina.
This diverticulum is supposed by V. Ihering to be homologous with the appendix of the male system  and it is certainly strong evidence of the correctness of his view that no form yet known possesses both appendix and apjendicula.
It is further held by him that the dart sack in Zouitidce is the homologue of the appendix  but this theory requires before adoption much stronger evidence than has been given.
From the foregoing it will be seen that the following points should be carefully observed when dissecting the genitalia of Helices Shape of the penis and presence or absence of internal papilla and external appendix  presence or absence of flagellum or epiphallus  point of insertion of the retractor muscle and of the vas deferens.
Upon the female system should be noticed the absence or presence and form of dart sacks darts mucous glands or appendicula  the length of the spermatheca duct  the form of the cceca of the ovotestis and whether they are imbedded in the liver or free and finally whether the right eyepeduncle is retracted between the branches of the genitalia or to the left side.
The flagellum the dart sack and accompanying mucous glands and the diverticulum upon the spermatheca duct may be regarded as structures developed since the differentiation of the Helices from other stocks  but the appendix and probably the appendicula when present have been inherited from that primordial stock from which the Helicidre Pupidte Bulimi etc.
have diverged.
As is sometimes the case witli ancient characters we find these features retained in a number of very dissimilar genera.
The characters and value of the jaw as a basis for classification have been much misunderstood in the past and even yet there are a number of unsettled questions concerning it.
On some points however we may speak with considerable confidence.
One such is the fact that ite strongly ribbed type of jaw odontognath intergrades by imperceptible stages with the entirely smooth Zoniteslike type oxygnath.
Examples illustrative of this dictum are numerous the restricted section Caracolus of Eastern Cuba and Haiti and the section Dentellaria being unquestionable instances of intergradation some species of each of these groups being typically oxygnathous others being jjronouncedly odontognathous.
To W. G. Binney is due the credit of first pointing out the fact and insisting upon its implications.
The writer has confirmed it by the examination of numerous additional species.
It is hardly needful to say that in many groups of Helices odontognathy and oxygnathy are therefore controvertible terms as far as classification is concerned and consequently cannot be used for the separation of genera or even subgenera unless supported by other and more stable characters.
 The jaw composed of a number of separate and similar squarish plates more or less overlapping at the outer edges such as that of Punctum' is comparable to an unsoldered jaw of the plaited or stegognath type.
Primarily the Helicoids are divisible into a number of groups as follows  Eggs or young very large at birth 1 to h the diameter of the adult shell Group I Macroon.
Eggs or young smaller or minute at birth.
a.
9 genital system having a dart sack and mucous gland.
Group II Belogona. aa.
9 system lacking accessories  S system with flagellum and appendix on penis  no epiphallus.
Group III Teleophalla.
In some species of Dentellaria the sculpture of the jaw is not even constant as a specific character.
The terms  Haplogon  and  Belogon ' were proposed by v. Ihering Morphol.
u. Syst.
Genitalapparates Helix i p. 401 402. aaa.
 system lacking accessories   system having epiphalluson penis  no appendix.
Group IV Epiphallophora.
aaaa.
 and  genital systems lacking all accessory organs.
b. Jaw soldered into one piece.
Group V Haplogona.
 bh.
Jaw composed of 1624 separate plates.
Group VI POLYPLACOGNATHA.
Group I MACROON Pilsbrj.
Manual of Conchology 2 YI p. 57 1890.
Arboreal or ground living Helicoids reproducing by eggs of relatively very large size onefourth to over onethird the diameter of the adult shell and few in number  sometimes viviparous.
The embryonic shell is correspondingly large and sculptured differently from the subsequent growth.
Some genera now classed with the Bulimi may prove to belong here besides the following  Genus ACAVUS Montfort.
Oviparous  genital organs lacking all accessory appendages  duct of the spermatheca short.
Jaw smooth.
Teeth all simply unicuspid.
Subgenus PYROCHILUS Pilsbry.7 This group will probably prove to be a section or subgenus of the Ceylonese genus as Dr. v. Moellendorff has pointed out.
It is still unknown anatomically.
Genus STYLODONTA C.  J. Viviparous 9 genital system lacking accessory appendages but  system having a flagellum upon the penis  duct of the spermatheca long.
Jaw not ribbed.
Median teeth unicuspid but marginals bluntly trifid.
Distribution  Seychelles Islands.
Genus HELICOPHANTA Fer.
Group II BELOGONA.
Female genitalia provided with one or two dartsacks and mucous glands.
'This name is proposed to supersede Phania Albers 1860 that term being preoccupied for an apparenlly valid genus of Diptera described by Meigen in 1824.
Type  Helix pyrostoma .
Jaw coarsely ribbed odontognath finely ribbed pyenognath or smooth oxygnath.
The ajpendages of the 9 system mentioned above are developed in no other group of Helices. Genus HELIX Linne restricted.
Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1891 p. 313.
Genitalia  9 system having a dartsack or sacks containing darts a pair of mucous glands or one the spermatheca duct long and provided with a long diverticulum   system having a flagellum upon the penis and rarely an appendix.
Jaw stout strongly ribbed.
Teeth of the radula normal.
Shell various  animal ieproducing by many small eggs.
Only in the more highly organized species are all the above characters of the genitalia developed.
In many sections of the genus several of the accessory organs may be absent.
I am disposed to think that in some cases the genital system has arrived at a simple condition by degeneration or loss of the accessory organs.
It is upon this ground that I admit Cressa West.
Pseudocamjjylcea Hesse non Pfr.
to the genus.
The genus is more numerous in species than any other and a large number of subgeneric and sectional groups have been instituted for their classification.
The anatomy of a great number of species has been investigated and a sufficient basis of facts is known to enable us to divide the genus into several wellmarked subgenera all of which are represented in the Paljearctic Region which has been no doubt the birthplace of this type.
As it is not my purpose to enter into the question of the subdivision of this genus here I will simply enumerate the leading groups in the several geographical regions viz.
 1 EurAfrican 2 EastAsiatic and 3 American.
The EurAfric.n area comprises the greatest variety of types both recent and fossil and the genus doubtless originated and developed its peculiarities therein.
The more prominent subgenera or sections are as follows  Arianta Campylcea Elona Ckilotrema Isognomostoma Pomatia Eremina Macularia Tachea Iberiis Hemicycla Leptaxis Plebeeula Eulota Fruticicola Euparypha Xerophila including many sections and a vast number of species v. Ihering holds I believe cnirectly that the socalled darts of Zonitidffi are not homologous with those of these Helices.
See Pilsbry Journ.
de Conchyl. 1891 p. 22. and finally the peculiar forms of the Atlantic Islands  Ochthephila Tedula Craspedaria etc. etc.
Here too belong the tertiary Helices which authors have always referred to Corydu Geotrochus etc. such as H. rugulosa crepidostoma hohemica hortulana etc. etc.
The sadly misnamed subgenera Dentellocaracolns and Prothelidomns of Oppenheim also fall into the restricted genus Heli.v near Macularia and Leptaxis Hemicycla etc.
Boettger has criticised Oppenheim on the conchology of his  PalaontologischZoogeographische Stiidie.
but his zoogeographical conclusions and implications are even more erroneous.
It is time that we heard the last of this habit of going to the ends of the earth to find subgenera for the European fossil Helices
With the exception of a few divergent bi'anches which apparently have left no descendants all of the European tertiary Helices belong to subgenera still occupying some part of the Palfearctic realm or at farthest the Holarctic area.
The supposed Corasia Chlorcea Eurycratera Coryda Dentellaria Ohha thloritis Thelidomus Mesodon Triodopsis etc. which have been reported from the Eocene Oligocene and Miocene of Europe belong in no case to those groups but for the greater part to the genus Helix as above restricted.
Many of them can readily be referred to recent subgenera and sections such as Camjylcea Gonostoma and esjecially to that primitive stock called  Pentatsenia  by Schmidt and Sandberger from which sprung the Tachea Macularia etc. of the recent fauna.
The East Asian area of distribution is in reality connected with the EurAfrican by way of Siberia but as the species of the intermediate region are few on account of its at present unfavorable climatic conditions the connection is not effective in preventing divergence of types.
We therefore find that the East Asian forms belong mainly to distinct subgenera or sections.
The European Eidota however is very closely allied to Dorcasia  Actista of Asia  and the Chinese section Metodontia Mlldff.
is scarcely separable from Fetasia H. bidens etc.
of Europe We also find closely allied species of Vallonia Carocolina etc. inhabiting China and Europe.
Besides the above mentioned groups the following are to be referred here as sections of Helix  Pledotropis Alb. Aegista Alb. Cathaiea Moell. Satsuma Ads. Euhadra Pils.
type H. peliomjjhala Pfr..
iSee Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1892 p. 214 pi.
13 figs.
G. H. In America the genus Helix is restricted to the West Coast until Mexico is reached where the species sjread over the middle portion also.
In South America the species are sparsely distributed.
Iysinoe is the most prominent subgenus including the larger Mexican and Californian species.
Epiphyagmophora occurs in South America  and the West Indian Eurycampta may perhaps belong here.
Among the fossil forms may be mentioned the section Glypterpes Pils. proposed for Helix veterna M.  H. The writer has elsewhere expressed the opinion that the American forms of true Helix reached this continent from Asia by way of a land bridge in the region of Beiing Sea.
Subgenus GONOSTOMA Held.
Differs from Helix in the less comjlex genitalia and the whitelipped shell.
Genus LEUCOCHROA Beck.
This genus is allied to the restricted genus Helix in genitalia and dentition  it differs in having the jaw entirely smooth with a low median projection.
The characters separating it from Helix are not great and have generally been much overestimated.
It has often been said to be near Zonites but this supposition is utterly without foundation.
The species are maiuly circumMediterranean the best known being the common L. candidissima.
Genus ALLOGNATHUS I'ilsbiy.
Man.
of Conch 2 iv j.
121 149 1888.
Kobelt Nachr.
bl.
D. M. Ges.
1891 p. 140.
Genitalia  9 system provided with two digitate glands each twofingered  dartsack having a fourbladed dart  duct of the receptaculum seminis bearing a long diverticulum.
 system having a long flagellum.
Jaw entirely smooth slightly projecting in the middle.
Radula very large  teeth all of the same form Avhich is that of a semicircularly curved strap.
' The genital system is that of Helix s.
str. resembling Cavipylcea as much as anything  but the smooth jaw and especially the extremely peculiar dentition are sufficient to give generic rank.
See Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1888 p. 193. iChecklist of Amer.
Land Shells p. 195. iSee Schuberth Arch.
f. Naturg.
1892.
The only species known is A. grateloupi Grsells grccllsiana Pfr.
 of the Island of Majorca.
Probably H. quedeiifehlti Mts.
belongs here also as Kobelt suggests.
Genus COCHLOSTYLA Fer.
Semper.
Genitalia 9 system having a globular mucous gland united with the dartsack   system usually without a flagellum.
Jaw strongly ribbed rarely smooth.
Brilliantly colored shells of arboreal habits confined with a few exceptions to the Philippine Islands.
Genus POLYMITA Beck Binney.
Genitalia as in Hemitroclmis.
Jaw low wide arched delicately striated without ribs or median projection.
Teeth with a long quadrangular basal plate with gougeshaped expanded cusp.
Shell globose brilliantly colored with simple lip.
This genus holds much the same relation to Hemitrochus that Allorinathus holds to Helix.
The extremely peculiar dentition first made known by Binney is very different from that of ordinary Helicoids but is approached by a number of other fruiteating arboreal snails.
The species are all Cuban.
Genus HEMITROCHUS Swainson Pilsbry.
Man.
of Conch.
2 V. p. 5.
Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
1892 p. 129 pi.
6 tigs.
F G. Genitalia  
system having a dartsack and accessory mucous glands  duct of the spermatheca long simple.
 system having a slender penis at the apex of which the vasdeferens and a long flagellum are inserted  retractor penis lacking.
Jaw highly arched smooth except for some faint vertical striae in the middle.
Dentition of the normal Helix type.
This group includes the sections Hemitrochus s.
str. Plagioptycha Dialeuca Coryda and perhaps Jeanneretia.
Possibly the continental section Oxychona belongs here.
The species are all West Indian inhabiting from Jamaica and Haiti northward to the iUnder Cochlostyla are included the sections enumerated by Semper Land Moll.
Phil.
Arch.
 several additional sections propced by myself Manual of Conch.
2 vii and the curious Helix cepoideso Lea formerly classed in Siylodonta but referred to Cochlostyla by Dr. v. MoellendorfT under the sectional name Ptychosiylus.
This name beinjr preoccupied by Sandberger for a tertiary genus of Melatiiida.
a substitute must be chosen  we propose therefore to designate the group Hypoptychus H. cepoides Lea being the type and thus far the only known species.
Bahamas and Florida Keys.
The fossil species described by Dr. W. H. Dall from Florida belong mainly to Plagioptycha.
Genus GLYPTOSTOMA Binney  Bland.
Genitalia  9 system having an appendicula or a dartsack entering the vagina.
Vasdeferens entering the penis at its middle.
Jaw very low broadly arched having about sixteen strong separated ribs.
Dentition normal.
Shell depressed broadly umbilicated having a simple thin acute lipThe single species known is G. neivherryammi W. G.
Binn. of San Diego California.
The shell is entirely Patuloid in form but not in texture.
Its systematic position is doubtful.
Genus ACANTHINULA Beck.
Said to jossess a dartsack and mucous glands and probably to be grouped here.
Genus VALLONIA Risso.
This genus of minute shells probably belongs here.
A dartsack is present.
Group III TELEOPHALLA.
Female genital system lacking all accessory organs  male organs complicated by the presence of a long flagellum and a welldeveloped appendix.
Jaw thin delicately plaited or distantly striated or smooth .
Besides the two genera given below this group perhajis includes Pararhytlda Ancey an oxygnathous group.
Genus SAGDA Beck.
Genitalia  9 system without accessory organs  duct of the spermatheca long.
Ova rather large few in number with calcareous shell.
S' system having a long penis at the apex of which are inserted the retractor muscle vasdeferens and a long folded flagellum  and at the middle of the penis is inserted a very long but simple flagellumlike appendix.''
The jaw is thin delicate arched composed of narrow vertical plates soldered together.
Dentition typically Helicoid.
Foot long and narrow.
Distribution Jamaica.
iSee Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S. P. 1892 p. 213 pi.
13.
Shell rather glassy with many narrow whorls and thin acute outer lip.
Genus CYSTICOPSIS Morch.
Man.
of Conch.
2 v. p. 5.
7.
Proc.
A. N. S. P. 1892 p. 214 pi.
L3.
Genitalia 9 system without dartsack or mucous glands duct of the spermatheca very long having a diverticulum  uterus much distended retaining the numerous young which are born living.
 system having a long flagellum upon the penis and a glandular appendix which terminates in two long flagellumlike processes.
Jaw vertically striated.
Teeth normal.
Shell thin globose the lip thin acute not expanded or reflexed.
Foot short wide.
Distribution Cuba and Jamaica.
Group IV EPIPHALLOPHORA.
Genitalia  9 system without accessory organs   having the penis continued into an epiphallus which generally bears a flagellum.
Jaw smooth oxygnath or ribbed odontognath.
The species of this group require much more investigation before we shall be in a position to correctly classify them.
Most of the large solid Helices of the tropics and the southern hemisphere belong here.
Tropical A m e r i ca n f cracolus.
forms.
t Cameneila.
'A feathery glandular f qj appendix on penis.
 f Chloritis.
Hadra.
sometimes degenerate. '
Planispira.
Papuina.
AustraloM o 1 u c c a n forms.
 No appendix  epiphallus Genus CARACOLUS Montfort Pilsbry.
Genitalia   system lacking accessory appendages   system having the retractor muscle and a long epiphallus inserted at the apex of the penis the epiphallus continued as a short flagellum beyond the insertion of the vasdeferens.
Duct of spermatheca long or short.
Jaw either smooth or stoutly ribbed  teeth normal.
Distribution West Indies and Northern South America.
The following sections belong here  Caracolus s. s. Lucerna Dentellaria Isomeria Labyi'inthus   Eurycratera Parthena Polydontes Tfielidomus Liochila and probably Cepolis.
Genus CAMAENA Alb.
Pils.
 v. Moell.
Pilsbry Manual of Conch.
2 VI p. 197.
MoellendorflF Nachrichtsbl.
d. D. M. Ges.
1891 p. 195.
Pilsbry .
c. 1892 p. 71.
Genitalia  9 system having no accessory appendages  the vagina is bound to the wall of the bodycavity by a thin muscle band  duct of the spermatheca very long.
 system provided with a very muscular penis containing a penispapilla and continued above in an epiphallus and flagellum  retractor attached to the epiphallus.
Jaw ribbed.
Distribution Southeast Asia Philippines etc.
The specimen dissected by me was sent without the shell by Dr. V. MoellendorfF.
As sections or subgenera of Cctmmna the following may be placed  CamcBna s. s. Pseudobba Phcenlcobius and CamcBnella.
Subgenus CAM.ffiNELLA Pilsbry.
Genitalia as in Camcena but penispapilla very large.
Jaw ribbed.
Marginal teeth of the radula wide low and multicuspid.
Shell see Manual of Conch.
2 VI p. 239.
Type Helix 2latyodon Pfr.
See figure accompanying this paper.
The specimens dissected were sent me by Dr. v. Moellendorft'.
Genus OBBA Beck.
 Obbina Semper.
Genitalia 9 system without accessory organs   system having a flagellum and a featherlike glandular a2pendix.
Jaw smooth  teeth not peculiar.
Distribution Philippines and some adjacent islands.
Genus CHLORITIS Beck.
Genitalia  9 system without accessory appendages  d system having a long epiphallus inserted with the retractor muscle at the apex of the penis and continued beyond the insertion of the vasdeferens as a flagellum.
Jaw stout Strongly ribbed  teeth not peculiar the marginals tricuspid.
Hadra is very closely allied to Chloritis in anatomy and shell and should probably be considered a subgenus.
The groups Papxima and Planispira are also near to Choriiis in anatomical features and if all were united the group would be about equivalent in value to the other groujis herein called genera.
A closer study of specimens may however show differences not known to me.
Contrary to the general rule the presence or absence of a flagellum seems to be a character of very trifling import among the species of the group Chloritis  Hadra f Papuina f Planispira the epiphallus also is lacking in some of the species notably in Cristigibba.
This is a case of degeneration in all jjrobability comparable to the Fruticicoloid forms in which the vaginal appendages are lost or to the section Canistrum of Cochlostyla.
The shells of some species of Chloritis are very like some ofDorcasia but the anatomical characters very widely separate these two groups.
Subgenus HADEA Alb.
Genitalia scarcely differing from Chloritis except that the flagellum is frequently lacking.
Jaw and teeth similar to those of Chloritis.
These like the species of Chloritis are ground snails.
Distribution Australia.
This division I formerly considered a genus but I agree with my friend Hedley who holds that it is scarcely separable from ChloritisGenus PAPUINA Martens.
Genitalia 9 system without accessory appendages   system usually having a flagellum upon the penis but it is sometimes lacking.
Jaw delicate coarsely ribbed.
Differs from Hadra in the shell the exclusively arboreal station and the more delicate jaw.
Genus PLANISPIRA Beck.
Genitalia as in Papxdna the flagellum being present in typical Planispira zonaria absent in sect.
Cristigibba.
Jaw smooth ribless.
Differs from Obba in lacking the glandular appendix  from Papuina Hadra and Chloritis in the smooth jaw  but it will probably be found to intergrade with Chloritis in characters when more species are known anatomically.
Group V HAPLOGONA.
Genitalia entirely lacking accessory organs  penis without an epiphallus jaw smooth oxygnath vertically striated aulacognath or flatly plaited stegognath.
Outer lateral teeth generally multicuspid.
This group may be classified thus  .
   f A mucous pore on the tail ' Endodonta.
Aulacognath or stegogi   Patida nath shell with sini No mucous pore  aulac    111I .1  Anolvpta.
pie sharp lip.
 ognalhous.
 Irochomorpha.
Odontognath  shell havf Polygyra ing reflexed or thick Polygyrella.
ened lip.
.

Praticolella.
Genus POLYGYRA Say Pilsbry.
Proc.
Acad N. S. Phila.
1889 p. 193.
Anckistoma in part of H.  A. Adams Tryon Fischer ei al.
The genital system lacks all accessory organs there being no dartsack no mucous glands no flagellum on penis the duct of the spermatheca is short and simple without an accessory blind sack.
The jaw is strongly ribbed and there is no median projection on its cutting edge.
Oviparous the eggs small numerous.
Shell helicoid varying from globose to lensshaped or planorboid  horncolored or brown sometimes banded the most constant band supraperipheral  striated lip flatly reflected  aperture teeth often wanting but typically three 1 parietal 2 upon the lip  axis perforated umbilicus open or closed.
Distribution North America.
We have every reason to believe that this group has been in the past as it now is exclusively North American. Subdivisions.
 The group is quite homogeneous easy transitions being traceable between the various sections through species which are quite intermediate.
Sections Polygyra s.
str. Dcedalochila Triodopsis Mesodon Stenotrema.
In the  Nomencl.
and Checklist of Amer.
Land Shells 1888 this genus was correctly defined but several groups not agreeing with my diagnosis were included.
These groups were subsequently See Pilsbry Journal de Conchyliologie Paris 1891 p. 22. elimiuated by me Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1890 p. 299  The Nautilus August 1891 and Jour de Conch.
1891 p.
22.
and the genus restricted to its present limits.
Genus ENDODONTA Albers 1850 Pilsbry.
Shell patuloid with or without folds or denticles within the aperture  generally horncolored with radiating or zigzag reddish flames.
Animal having a more or less developed caudal mucous gland and suprapedal furrows.
Genitalia unknown but probably like Patula.
Jaw thin delicately ribbed stegoguath or striated.
Central and lateral teeth as in Patula  marginal teeth low wide having one or several short cusps  rarely pseudozonitoid.
Distribution Oceanica New Zealand Australia.
The elucidation of this group is involved in considerable confusion.
Albers and other early authors give shell characters only in defining their groups.
Hutton first called attention to the anatomy of species related to Endodonta and to the fact that certain of the New Zealand forms possessed a caudal slimegland  and he founded a family  Charopidce  on this peculiarity characterizing numerous generic groups therein.
Suter Trans.
N. Z.
Institute 18801892 made certain modifications and considerably enlarged the limits of the family the name of which he changed to  PheiiacohelicidceJ' The writer made some observations upon the systematic position of these groups in The Nautilus Sept. 1892 and grouped all of the mucouspore bearing genera under the generic name Gerontia Hutt.
A month later proofsheets of Mr. Charles Hedley's article upon Charopidce were received at Philadelphia.
This valuable paper contained a synopsis of all previous publications known to the author upon the subject and the fact that E7idodontaPitys Charopa etc. possess a mucous tail gland like Gerontia etc. was for the first time brought forward.
A brief review of Mr. Hedley's article appeared in The Nautilus for October 1892.
Mr. Hedley does not give the same limits to his Charopidce that the writer gave to Gerontia  nor would it be expected as our papers his in Australia and my own in America ''The credit of the discovery that the Patuloid forms sucli as Charopa herein included posseed a caudal gland rests with my friend Charles Hedley of Sydney N. S. W. whose jb ervations both printed and in letters have influenced larsely the limits here given to this group.
My former views are shown in the  Obiervaiions on New Zealand Helices in The Nautilus for Sept. 1892.
27 were written each in complete ignorance that the other was engaged upon the group in question.
The present genus therefore is the product of our independent labors and is equivalent to Charojndce Hedley phis Gerontia Pilsbry.
It therefore includes Phenacoheiiciclce Suter and Charopidce Hutton.
The choice of the name Endodonta for the genus is inevitable as it is the oldest proposed.
The following groups seem to belong here  Endodonta s. sir.
 Pitys Pse.
non Beck.
Libera Garrett.
Diaglyptns Pils.


 Pitys Beck never defined.
Simplicaria Mouss.
 toothless Endodonta'.
Maoriana Suter Huttonella Suter preoc.
JEschrodo7mis Pils.
 Thera Hutt. preoc.
CharopaAlh.
Gerontia Hutt.
Therasia Hutt.
Calymna Hutt plus Amphidoxa Hutt.
non Alb..
Pyrrha Hutt.
Phenacohellx Suter  Fruticicola Hutt.
non Held.
Allodiscus Pils.
 Psyra Hutt. preoc.
Suteria Pils.
 Patnlopsis Suter non Strebel.
Thalassohelix Pils.
 Thalassia of N. Z. authors 7ion Alb.
 not Thalassia Chevrolat.
Phacussa Hutt.
Genus PATULA Held.
Genital system lacking all accessory appendages.
Jaw vertically striated.
Marginal teeth multicuspid.
This genus includes the typical forms of Europe and America Discus Angwisplra Pyramidula Gonyodiscus and also the subgenus Helicodiscus Morse.
Perhaps Zoogenites Morse.
Various forms of this genus are found in most parts of the world except Oceanica Australia etc Genus TROCHOMOKPHA.
Semper Reisen im Archip.
Phil. Landmoll.
Distinguished from Patula etc. mainly by the keeled and otherwise very different shell and the differently shaped marginal teeth of the radula.
Genus ANOGLYPTA Martens.
Hedley Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. Wales 2 VI p. 22 1891.
Genitalia simple as in Trochomorplia  jaw and teeth also resembling that genus from which this is sundered mainly on account of the peculiar shell.
Distribution Tasmania.
' Group VI POLYPLACOGNATHA.
Genitalia lacking all accessory organs  jaw composed of numerous separate quadrangular plates  lateral teeth bicuspid.
Genus PTJNCTUM Morse.
Genital system like Patula.
Jaw composed of about 1619 separate quadrate plates.
Dentition  central teeth unidentate laterals bi dentate.
Shell discoidal with round ciescentic aperture and thin acute lipDistribution Holarctic realm.
Differs from Microphysa etc. in having the plates of the jaw actually unsoldered but connected by a delicate membrane.
Genus LAOMA Gray Pils.
Genital system unknown.
Jaw composed of 2024 quadrangular papillose plates.
Central tooth uuicuspid side teeth all bicuspid.
Shell more or less trochiforra generally keeled and variegated  aperture rhomboidal lip thin simple.
Section Laoma s. s. aperture with lamellae within.
Section Phrixgnathus Hutton aperture without lamellae.
Distribution New Zealand.
My knowledge of the anatomy of this genus is derived from the writings of Hutton and Suter.
The jaw should be compared with that of Fhacussa Therasia etc.
The lateral and marginal teeth are peculiar and very characteristic.
Genera of Doubtful Position.
Genus STROBILOPS Pilsbry.
Strobila Morse 1864 not Sars 1833.
Strobilus Sandberger et al. not Anton 1839.
Genitalia unknown.
Jaw ribbed.
This genus is represented by many species in the middle and later tertiary of Europe and by several living species in America 404 1892. extending south to Venezuela.
It is therefore like Vallonia Zonitoides Papula etc. a genus of the Holarctic realm.
The New Zealand forms referred to St robila have been separated under the name Maoriana by Mr. Suter.
They are a modification of Endodonta.
Living Species.
S. labyrinthica Say.
Var.
strebeli C.  F. Var.
virgo Pils.
Var.
affinis Pils.
Var.
morsel Dall.
S. salrini Tristr.
S. hubbardi A. D. Br.
Syn.
H. vendryesiana Gloyne.
European Tertiary Species.
S.
wnplicata Al.
Braun.
S. elasmodonta Reuss.
S. diptyx Boettg.
S. costata Sandb.
S. labyrinthictila Mich. S. sublabyrinthica.
Syn.
H. lautrieensis Noul.
S. monile Desh.
S. pseudolabyrinthica Sandb.
S. duvalii Mich. Genus AMPELITA Beck.
Anatomy unknown.
' Genus PEDINOGYRA Alb.
Hedley Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
Queensl.
1889 and Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. Wales 1892.
This genus has characters of groups I and IV with others allying it to Panda.
Genus POLYGYRATIA Gray.
Anatomy unknown.
Genus MACROCYCLIS Beck.
This group is still unknown anatomically.
A single species M. laxata is known.
It may belong to Helix s. str.
Genus SOLAROPSIS Beck.
Manual of Conchology 2 v p. 177.
This genus rests at present wholly upon conchological characters.
A.
.ajjra has been dissected by the author since this paper was written.
It presents peculiar characters which leave the position of the genus problematic.
