On the CHARACTER OF THE StAMENS IN OrNITHOGALUM UMBELLATUM.
It need scarcely be noted that the floral whorls of Liliaceous plants are in sets of three though it is often difficult in the sixleaved perianth to distinguish the threepetaled from the threesepaled series.
In Ornithogalum umbellatum each three are well defined on the outer and the inner whorl though there is no difference between the two except in the smaller size.
The filaments are petaloid.
and the outer whorl of three follows the character of the petals in being of a still smaller size.
But when we come to the fourth series or interior set of three stamens they are found to be larger in their filaments than the three before them.
It is so unusual to find an inner series of stamens more petaloid than the outer that the fact is certainly worth recording.
Few of this genus are odoriferous  this is one of the exceptions.

Note on Barbarea in connection with Dichogamy.
So far as I am aware no botanist but myself has ventured to explain the cause of dichogamy.
I have shown that stamens are called into active growth under a much lower temperature or a less enduring warm temperature than pistils.
Hence a flower which may be proterogynous under a continuously warm period late in spring would be proterandrous under the fitful advent of a few warm days in other seasons.
I have long ago called attention to the fact that the Barbarea vulgaris is proterogynous while Barbarea prcecox is proterandrous.
At that time I had no clue to the reason for this great difference between two species so closely allied that botanists have usually to wait until the fruit is nearly mature before they can positively distinguish them.
12 Both species grow in abundance on my ground and I Lave good opportunity to observe tbeni.
B. vulgaris is confined to the low ground and B. prcecox to the high dry ground among cultivated plants.
It may be found out of cultivated ground or on waste places of much the same character as on the former but I have never seen it in the thoroughly native condition of J5.
vulgaris.
B. vulgaris comes into bloom regularly about the first week in May with little regard to whether February or March is fitfally warm or of a continuously temperate character.
B. prcecox on the other hand is so easily excited that while in some seasons it will be in flower cotemporaneously with the other species in others it is nearly over before the B. vulgaris commences to bloom.
Habituated to localities favoring such varying conditions of temperature it Avould certainly acquire the proterandrous character while the other species under more retardative conditions would become proterogynous.
A habit once formed will we know continue in plants as well as in animals by inheritance long after the causes that induced it have ceased to operate.
It is therefore quite likely that though B. prcecox were to find itself growing beside B. vulgaris in the low and continuously cool atmosphere of a wet meadow it would still show for a time much of the proterandrous character it had formed through its earlier associations with other conditions.
Though I regard environment as having much less to do with the formation of what we must regard as permanent specific characters than is often claimed for it it is generally conceded to be a great factor in permanent change.
The facts here noted certainly indicate its influence in producing dichogamy which would undoubtedly become a fixed character in many instances.
An extremely interesting point in the close study of the two species is that the proterandrous species is evidently so arranged that crossfertilization is well nigh impossible.
On the other hand the proterogynous species seems incapable of using its own pollen until it has had every chance to receive pollen from other flowers.
In the latter case the pistil pushes its way through the unopened perianth exposing the pinhead form of the capitate stigma.
The plants on my ground are in great favor with honey bees which seem scarcely to care to visit any other flowers Avhen Barbarea vulgaris is abundant and the exposed stigmas can scarcely avoid being freely dusted with foreign pollen by these industrious creatures.
On the other hand the stigma is much below the anthers at the time the flower expands in B. prcecox.
The pollen is discharged before the flower opens and when the stigma is brought up through the stamens by the elongation of the ovarium it is found to be dusted by its own pollen.
In this species the flower is surely a selffertilizer.
It certainly must be interesting to the biologist to note two species so closely related possessing such diametrically opposite conditions as regards the fertilization of their flowers  and the teleologist cannot fail to be equally interested as the facts have an intimate bearing on the questions he has to discuss.
To my mind the chief value of the facts related lies in the additional proof they afford that dichogamy to a great extent is dependent on the varying conditions that excite advanced growth in stamens or pistils respectively.
It may be added in connection with the subject of the free visit of honey bees to these flowers that the flowers have no odor perceptible to our senses.
172 proceedings of the academy of 1892.
April 5.


Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Fiftythree persons present.
April 12.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Fortyfive persons present.
April 19.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Thirtyone persons present.
April 26.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Sixtyfive persons present.
A paper entitled On the Mechanical Genesis of the Scales of Fishes by John A. Ryder Avas presented for publication.
Prof. F. H. Giddings was elected a member.

On the Molars of the Pteropine Bats.TR.
Harrison A.llen called attention to the homologies of the cusps of the molars in the pteroine bats.
In Pteropus medius the grinding surface of the parallelogramlike crown of the first upper molar is traversed its entire length by a groove which is bounded externally by a thick ridge and internally by a narrow ridge.
The outer ridge forms an imperfectly developed cusp at its anterior part which is probably the paracone.
The inner ridge is imperfectly divided into two subequal parts of which the anterior is probably the protoconeand the posterior the metacone the heel hypocone being absent.
These identifications agree with the cusps as seen in other mammals.
Owing to the great size of the grinding surface it becomes difficult to understand why the backward extension of the tooth differs from other types in the form of the primary cusps instead of the evolution occurring as is the rule by the appearance of the hypocone.
The commissure which constitutes the anterior and the posterior borders of the tooth are exceptionally well defined and the one last named appears to take the place by adaptation of the region of the hypocone.
A recent observation on Cephalotes has suggested to the recorder that it is probable that the hypocone is really present and that the greater part of the grinding surface may be so named.
In this genus the parts protocone aracone and metacone can be easily discerned.
The protocone according to this identification compels one to accept the cusp named as protocone as in truth the metacone and thus the usual elements of a tritubercular tooth are all accounted for and the remaining extended part of the tooth becomes the hypocone.
By this identification the pteropine molar ceases to be aberrant.
But it must be remembered that tlie process of reduction of the face which takes place in the pteropines is likely to be accompanied with the same disposition to tooth variation as is seen in the Stenoderms among the Phyllostomidce.
In this family the molar teeth are highly aberrant and the commissures at the anterior and posterior borders greatly developed.
The question naturally arises why may not the molar in Cephalotes be acknowledged to be also aberrant and the cusp named above the protocone be in reality nothing but a supplemental cusp projected from the anterior commissure and the parts as defined for the long faced Pterojms be true for all genera 
On the whole Dr. Allen inclined to the opinion that the statement first made was the correct one since it permitted the cusjs to be named with the least amount of violence to accepted views.
The first molar in both Cephalotes and the related Harpyia closely resembles the last premolar so closely indeed as to suggest that it may prove to be one of the premolar series.
But our knowledge of the milk dentition does not permit this identification to be made with certainty.
The transition in all the details is certainly much more gradual than is usually the case between a molar and a premolar.
In Harpyia at least the first molar as defined in accepted descriptions lies under and slightly in advance of the infra orbital foramen a remarkable position for it when the greatly reduced facial axis is borne in mind.
A striking peculiarity is seen in the last upper premolar and both upper molars of Cephalotes in the presence of a longitudinal ridge on the grinding surface of the tooth back of the paracone.
The ridge lies in the middle of the tooth.
It is rudimental in the premolar and the last molar but is trenchant in the first molar.
In the lower jaw' of Cephalotes the teeth present similar peculiarities to those of the upper with the exception that the longitudinal ridge is absent from the last premolar is rudimental in the first and last molar but well developed in the 'second.
The single specimen of Cephalotes examined was a young adult and the premaxillaries were united.
The following were ordered to be printed   BY THEODORE D. RAND WILLIAM W. JEFFERIS AND J. T. M. CARDEZA M. D. The vicinity of Philadelphia has long been famed for the number of its mineral localities and the remarkable abundance and variety of species and specimens.
The fact that these have been found chiefly in mining and quarrying operations of limited extent many of them of short duration added to the fact that the region has rapidly filled up with a dense population so that noted localities have been covered with buildings while others have apparently been exhausted led one of the writers to suggest that those most familiar with the occurrence of these minerals during the last half century should publish jointly and in connected form an account of the localities more nearly complete than any now existing.
In doing this each has taken the region with which he is most familiar assisted however by the others.
No mineral has been mentioned without qualification unless known to one of the writers to have been found at the locality.
It is believed that few omissions will be found but the authors will be thankful for further Information from any one knowing additional facts and such facts will be incorporated in a subsequent paper with due credit.
The authors desire to express their acknowledgment to Messrs. Samuel Tyson John Smedley Joseph Willcox Edward D. Drown and Lewis Woolman for valuable information incorporated in these notes.
