THE AUTOSPORADIC SEEDS OF OXALIS STRICTA.
By Ernest Walker.
The effective metliod this plant has of scattering its mature seeds, in which it proves to be a decided "touch-me-not" seems hitherto to have escai^ed observation.
In Gray's Manual, and other like works, the seeds are spoken of as having a " loose and separating" coat, but the part this envelope plays in dehiscence and in the distribution of the species is not mentioned.
In May, 1891, I made some careful observations, and the following memoranda: — As the seeds of Oxalis stricta L. attain maturity, the erect loculicidal capsule becomes flaccid.
In this condition the least disturbance, as the touch of the hand or shaking by the wind, causes the seeds to be expelled with considerable force, and thrown two or three feet.
Sitting for a few minutes by a plant, the tick of the seeds as they were continually projected could be distinctly heard.
To place a capsule in the palm of the hand, and press it, suggested the bursting of pop-corn.
The shooting of the seed was done so quickly that it was some time before I could make out the manner in which it was j.ccomplished.
The active agent is the outer coat of the seed.
This consists of a translucent, shining, membraneous envelope stretched tightly over the seed.
When it bursts, it suddenly and elastically turns insideout ; after which it becomes flaccid.
This coat is thicker in a line along the ventral margin of the pendulous seed, or along the edge which is next the axis of the capsule.
The rupture is naturally along the opposite edge.
Doubling back against the axis of the upright capsule gives this membraneous coat, or spermoderm the power to project the seed.
Placing some of the seeds under a lens and puncturing the coat with a needle the rupture was found to occur at other parts than the margin, or at any point the coat might be pricked.
In this instance the envelope not having a "back-stop" was often thrown farther than the seed.
When in the capsule the position of the seeds is such as to throw them not only outward but slightly upward.
They are cast farther than if projected horizontally.
Some seeds were found as far as three feet from the capsule from wliich they were thrown.
1892.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
289 September 6.
Dr. Geo.
H. Horn iu the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
September 13.
Mr. UsELMA C. Smith in the chair.
Thirty persons present.
On the Foramen viagnum of the Common Porpoise, and on a Human Lower Jaw of unusual size.
— Dr. Harrison Allen invited attention to two skulls of the common porpoise (^Tursiop tursio) and demonstrated that the foramen magnum in both specimens received no portion of the basi-occipital bone.
The exoccipital bones meet in the median line and the posterior border of the basi-occipital bone lies fully one-half an inch in advance of the foramen.
The arrangement of i)arts thus proved to be an exception to the general statement admitted by leading authorities, namely, that the Mammalia are characterized by the lower border of the foramen magnum being foimed by the basi-occipital element, and by the occipital condyle not being composed entirely by the exoccipital.
Dr. Allen also invited attention to a human lower jaw of unusual size from the Sandwich Islands.
As compared with the lower jaw of an English skull the following measurements will prove of interest.
Sandwich Islands.
England.
INCHES.
INCHtS.
Height of ascending ramus 3?
2?
Width of ascending ramus Its I5 5 2 _8_ 10 Length of horizontal i-amus 3 2t; Goniosymphysal length 41 3° Width of horizontal ramus at first bicuspid Its ^ts Width of horizontal ramus opposite last molar ItV 1 Symphysal height li Ij Coronoid height i Interironial width 3?
3?
Condyloid height "z ?
fr^ It will be thus seen that the greatest contrasts in size between an average bone and the one exhibited are to be found in the rami, and the least contrasts, and in most features none at all, in the proportions of the processes and iu the width between the angles.
290 ' proceedings of the academy of [1892.
September 20.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Thirty-six persons present.
A paper entitled " A Revision of the North American Creodonta with notes of some Genera which have been referred to that Group," by AV.
B. Scott, was presented for publication.
September 27.
^Ir.
Chas.
p. Perot in the chair.
Two hundred and two persons present.
Greenland Explorations.
— Mr. R. E. Peary, U. S. N., made an informal and preliminary report on his exploration of Greenland during the last twelve months.
He announced that he had been able to carry out almost to the letter the plan submitted to the Academy, the merits of which this society, whose practical interest made fruition possible, was the first to recognize.
He had traced the nortliern limit of the interior ice cap of Greenland and settled the northern extension of the main land-mass.
He had completed the surveys of Davis Strait and Inglefield Gulf and he had availed himself of unique opportunities of studying the Arctic Highlanders, a tribe of about two hundred and thirty souls separated from the rest of humanity by the sea and by impassible glaciers, but whose acute ability to obtain their two great necessities: something to eat and something to wear, is not excelled in the world.
Mr. Peary then returned to the Academy the flag presented to him at the setting out of his expedition.
It is the only flag which has been carried across the northern boundary of Greenland, or has floated over the east coast above the 77th parallel.
Prof. Heilprin read the preliminary report of the Relief Expedition, which will be published in detail at a later date.
The following were elected members : — J. Liberty Tadd, George S. Wolf and N. V. Ball, M. D. The following was ordered to be printed : 

