NOTES ON SOME SNAKES FROM TROPICAL AMERICA LATELY LIVING IN THE COLLECTION OF THE ZOOLOGICAL By ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN.
Nearly all of the specimens on which these notes are based, are now in the Academy's collection, but have all been living in the garden of the Zoological Society.
The greater number of them were contained in a collection made by Dr. O'Reilly, of Trinidad, who is responsible for the localities of collection in these cases.
The colors given, were in all cases, taken from the living specimen.
Boa diviniloqua (Lain .).
One specimen from St. Kitts.
65 rows of scales ; ventrals, 266 ; subcaudals, 54; 16 scales in orbital ring; in contact with labials, 15 scales across top of head, between orbits ; thirty-two spots on body; six on tail.
Total length, 1,700 mm.
(tail 152).
Boa imperator Daud.
One specimen, probably from Vera Cruz.
68 rows of scales ; ventrals, 246; subcaudals, 66 ; 19 scales in orbital ring ; in contact with labials on one side, separated by one row of scales on the other ; 13 scales between orbits; twenty-two spots on body, four on tail.
Total length, 1,010 mm.
(tail 105).
Ungualia melanura (Schlegel).
Three specimens from Cuba.
(a).
27 rows of scales, three exterior smooth ; ventrals, 202 ; subcaudals, 40.
Total length, 571 mm.
(tail 76).
Body color dark gray, slightly lighter on sides ; abdomen and five exterior rows of scales, light gray ; a row ot small dark spots alternating on each side of the back ; two rows of black dots on the first and fifth rows of scales, about five scales apart longitudinally.
An occasional similar dot on the ventrals ; top of head, dark ; sides of head, chin and throat, light gray maculated with black.
(6) 27 rows of scales, three exterior smooth; ventrals, 201.
Total length, 533 mm.
(tail broken).
Color very similar to specimen a.
The sides and belly have a salmon tinge and the dorsal spots tend to coalesce into a zigzag line.
There is also a yellowish tinge on the eleventh and twelfth rows, giving the appearance of a broken line of that color.
A dark patch on the frontal and parietals and a line from the nostril to side of the neck.
(e) From Banes, Cuba, 27 rows of scales, four exterior smooth, ventrals, 194; subcaudals, 24.
Total length, 736 mm.
(tail 51).
This specimen is peculiar in coloring, being a bright orange yellow on the whole upper surface, slightly paler on the sides and beneath.
There is an occasional indication of the dark dorsal and lateral dots.
In all these specimens the frontal plate is nearly twice as long as broad and the parietals are separated by one large and one small scale.
Epicrates cupreus Fisch.
One specimen from Venezuela (O'Reilly, coll.
), 51 rows of scales, ventrals, 236; subcaudals, 54; 13 superior and 15 inferior labials, the sixth and seventh labials entering the orbit.
Total length, 1,247 mm.
(tail 133).
Color, uniform copper above, with a rich, plum colored bloom.
Faintly indicated darker mottling on the back and sides.
Beneath, white with a spot of the body color on the base of each scutum near the end.
For purposes of comparison, the scutellation of a small E. angulifer, from Cuba, is given: — Total length, 635 mm.
(tail 63), 63 rows of scales ; ventrals, 274; subcaudals, 50 ; 13 superior labials, not touching orbit; 16 lower labials.
Xiphosoma hortulana (Linn).
(a) From Trinidad (O'Reilly, coll.
), 43 rows of scales; 2 loreals; 13 superior labials, of which eight are pitted; 16 lower labials, eight pitted; 8 to 12 scales across top of head between orbits; ventrals, 264; subcaudals, 112.
Total length, 1,096 mm.
(tail 241).
Color, black with a series of white rings, somewhat alternating on opposite sides of the body, many of them open below and prolonged downward to the ventrals, in the form of two white bars.
(b) From Trinidad or Guiana (O'Reilly, coll.)
41 rows of scales; 2 loreals; 12 superior labials, 8 pitted; 14 lower labials, 6 pitted; 10 to 12 scales between orbits; ventrals, 253; subcaudals, 95.
Total length, 1,012 mm.
(tail 203).
Color reddish brown ; lateral blotches yellowish brown, not forming rings as distinctly as in the black type.
An occasional scale is black or white.
Abdomen yellowish cream color with small dusky blotches, especially towards the tail.
The whole pattern is less distinct than in the ordinary form and is difficult to describe.
Xiphosoma ruschenbergeri (ope.
Two specimens from Trinidad (a, O'Reilly, coll.)
(a) 4. rows of scales ; 2 loreals ; 13 superior and 13 inferior labials; 9 to 12 scales between orbits; 4 large plates on muzzle; ventrals, 261 ; subcaudals, 101.
Total length, 1,680 mm.
(tail 305).
Color, greenish brown above, with an occasional yellow scale.
All the scales narrowly margined with dark brown.
Underneath, bright yellow, clouded with dusky.
A few small black spots towards the tail.
(b) 43 rows of scales; 2 loreals ; 14 superior labials, 8 pitted; 13 inferior, 7 pitted; 9 to 11 scales between orbits.
Six large plates on muzzle.
Ventrals, 258 ; subcaudals, 101.
Total length, 1,655 mm.
(tail 305).
Color similar to specimen a, but without any yellow scales on the body .
Xiphosoma annulata Cope.
(a) Said -to have come from Jamaica, but probably exotic ; 54 rows of scales ; 3 loreals; 12-14 superior labials, 6 pitted; 18 inferior, 9 pitted; 12 to 16 scales between orbits; ventrals, 260; subcaudals, 82.
Total length, 863 mm.
(tail 152).
Color, gray with a series of darker gray rings with lighter centers, on each side.
These rings often coalesce across the back, and become bands on the tail.
Light gray underneath.
Head with a few dark markings and a black band through the eye.
(b) From Bocas del Toro, Columbia; 54 rows of scales; 3 loreals; 14 superior labials, 8 pitted; 18 inferior, 10 pitted; 14 to 16 scales between orbits; ventrals, 252; subcaudals, 80, Total length 990 mm.
(tail 152).
Color much as in specimen a, but with a slightly brownish tinge.
The muzzle in this species is broader than in hortulana, the internasals are shorter and the superciliaries less distinguishable.
Dipsas cenchoa (Linn.).
One specimen from Columbia; 17 rows of scales; median much enlarged ; 1 ante and 2 post-orbitals ; 7 superior, 9 inferior labials ; ventrals, 246; subcaudals, 180 pairs: anal divided.
Total length, 1, 028 mm.
(tail 330).
Color, reddish brown above with blotches of darker brown; yellowish beneath, punctuated with black.
Leptophis liocercus (Neuwied).
One specimen from Venezuela (O'Reilly, coll.)
; 15 rows of scales, those on the body keeled; no loreal ; temporals, 1-2; 8 superior, 10 inferior labials.
Ventrals, 161; subcaudals, 157 pairs; anal divided.
Total length, 1,235 mm.
(tail 381).
Color, bright metallic green above ; belly white, extending to the second or third rows of scales.
Each subcaudal has a minute point of green about the centre.
The dark line through the eye, is very narrow in this specimen.
Herpetodryas carinatus (Linn).
Two specimens from Trinidad, (6, O'Reilly, coll.)
(a) 9 superior labials ; 9-10 inferior labials ; temporals, 1-2; 12 rows of scales; 2 median rows keeled; ventrals, 160; subcaudals, 117.
Total length, 1,373 mm.
(tail 457).
Color, greenish black above with indications of a light dorsal stripe.
Greenish white underneath.
(b) 9 superior, 11 lower labials; temporals, 1-2; 12 rows of scales, all smooth; ventrals, 164; subcaudals, 129 pairs.
Total length, 1,502 mm.
(tail 509).
Color, bluish black above ; bluish white beneath.
Spilotes pullatus (Linn).
Two specimens from Trinidad, (O'Reilly, coll.)
(a) 17 rows of scales; 8 superior and 8 inferior labials; temporals, 1-1; ventrals, 214; subcaudals, 103 pairs.
Total length, 1,930 mm.
(tail 458).
The light markings in this specimen are pure white.
(b) 15 rows of scales: 6 superior, 8 inferior labials ; temporals, 1-1; ventrals, 214; subcaudals, 110 pairs.
Total length, 2,240 mm.
(tail 533).
The light markings are pale yellow.
Spilotes corais melanurus (D. & B.)
One specimen from Mexico ; 17 rows of scales ; 8 labials above, 8 below; temporals, 2-2 ; ventrals, 192 ; subcaudals, 59 pairs.
Total length, 2,105 mm.
(tail 381).
V Spilotes corais xanthurus, subs.
nov. Two specimens from an unknown locality.
There is good reason, however, to believe that they came from Vera Cruz.
(a) 17 rows of smooth scales ; 8 upper, 9 lower labials ; temporals, t -2 ; ventrals, 215; subcaudals, 77 pairs.
Total length, 1,575 mm.
{tail 279).
(6) 17 rows of smooth scales; 8 upper, 9 lower labials; temporals, 2-2 ; ventrals, 204 ; subcaudals, 58 pairs.
Total length, 1580 mm.
(tail 229).
Color is alike in both specimens : The upper surface of head is brownish black, with a yellow shade showing through it.
The upper labials are yellow, margined above and behind with brownish black.
The body is blackish brown above for the anterior twothirds, gradually becoming blotched with yellow, which increases until the posterior third is entirely orange yellow; some scales are with dark edges.
Under surface of head and throat yellow.
The portion of the body which is black above, is a pale dirty yellow beneath, the color of the back showing on the ends of the ventrals ; the posterior portion below, being a clearer, brighter yellow.
In specimen a the lower anterior temporal is long and narrow and on one side is divided, making three on one side and two on the other.
In specimen b the anterior temporals are small, hardly larger than the post-orbitals and ai*e almost separated from the posterior pair by the seventh labial, which is produced upward into a point.
Alsophis angulifer caymanus (Garmaii).
Three specimens from Isle of Pines, West Indies.
17 rows of scales, smooth ; 1 ante, 2 post-orbitals ; a square loreal, not reaching the frontal ; 2 nasals ; temporals, 1-2 ; 8 superior labials, 3d, 4th and 5th in orbit; 10 lower labials; 2 pairs of chin shields ; anal divided.
(a) Ventrals, 172; subcaudals, 109 pairs.
Total length, 1,273 mm.
(tail 356).
{b) " 169 " 81 " " " 1,146 " " 305 (c) " 169 " 80 " " " 1,133 " " 292 Color, pale olive brown above, each scale edged with blackish except towards the tail, where the edging disappears and an occasional scale is wholly black.
The ventrals are slightly lighter, each one on the anterior portion of the body edged with black.
There is an / occasional red patch on the lower abdomen and tail.
A dark blotch on the parietals, frontal and superciliaries.
In all details of scutellation these specimens agree with A. angulifer of Cuba and are precisely similar in color to five other specimens which were in possession of the dealer from whom they were procured.
The form is that described by Garman as A. caymanus (Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
, 1887, p. 276) in which the color variation seems to be well fixed.
One specimen of A. angulifer in the Academy's collection rather tends towards it, however, and it seems best to regard the form as a subspecies from some of the outlying keys and islands.
Helicops angulatus (Linn).
One specimen from Trinidad (O'Reilly, coll.)
; 19 rows of scales ; keeled; loreal 'present ; temporals, 1-3; veutrals, 119; subcaudals, 65 pairs ; anal divided.
Total length, 368 mm.
(tail 89).
Color greenish olive.
The light cross bands widen and end in a red spot on the flanks.
Underneath, orange, with a row on each side, of alternating dark blotches.
Scytale neuwiedi D. & B.
One specimen from Guiana (O'Reilly, coll.
); 19 rows of smooth scales; 8 superior labials, fourth and fifth in orbit; 8 lower labials; 2 nasals, posterior large ; a loreal which is long and narrow, hard to distinguish from the prefrontals; 1 ante, 2 post-orbitals ; temporals, 1-2; ventrals, 188; subcaudals, 83, undivided; anal undivided.
Total length, 914 mm.
(tail 229).
Color, uniform reddish brown above, pearl white beneath ; lustrous and opalescent.
Bothrops atrox (Linn).
Two specimens from British Guiana, (O'Reilly, coll.)
(a) 27 rows of scales ; 7 upper and 8 lower labials ; ventrals, 196; subcaudals, 42 pairs.
Total length, 635 mm.
(tail 89).
(b) 27 rows of scales; 7 upper and 9 lower labials; ventrals, 195; subcaudals, 59 pairs.
Total length, 722 mm.
(tail 121).
Scales broad and with a high, short keel, which does not extend to the tip of the scale.
Color, grayish olive with brown, black edged blotches on the back, widening on the sides.
Interspaces along the back, about equal in length to the blotches.
Abdomen yellow, heavily blotched with dark brown.
Bothrops lanceolatus (Merrem).
Two specimens from Martinique, (O'Reilly, coll. )
(a) 25 rows of scales; 7 upper and 9 lower labials; ventrals, 199; subcaudals, 69 pairs.
Total length, 559 mm.
(tail 101).
(b) 2.)
rows of scales ; 7 upper and 9 lower labials; ventrals, 200; subcaudals, 69 pairs.
Total length, 610 mm.
(tail 114).
Scales narrower than in atro.r, keel less marked and running to the tip of the scale.
Color, gray above with pale brown rbomboidal blotches on the back and small spots on the sides, both very irregular.
Abdomen yellow, unspotted.
Bothrops jararaca (Neuwied. )
One specimen from Brazil, (O'Reilly, coll.)
— 27 rows of scales; 7 upper and 9 lower labials; ventrals, 206; subcaudals, 57 pairs.
Total length, 635 mm.
(tail 101).
Body scale much as in lanceolatus.
Those on the muzzle proportionately rather larger.
Angle of canthus less sharp.
Color, sage green, with dark transverse bands, widening on the sides.
Interspaces along the back are considerably longer than the bands.
An occasional dark spot in the interspaces on the dorsal line.
Abdomen yellow, unspotted.
The specimens of Bothrops given above are identified with some hesitation.
In fact the difficulty of finding any marked, substantial characters, distinguishing these three species, suggests a doubt of their right to full specific rank.
In case they should be regarded as subspecies of one widely ranging form, B. atro.r, (Linn) would have priority.
436 proceedings of the academy of [1893.
December 5.
The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair.
One hundred and thirtyeight persons present.
A paper entitled ' ' Earthenware of Florida, Collections of Clarence B. Moore," by W. H. Holmes, was presented for publication.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a communication on his recent visit to the Hawaiian Islands.
(No abstract).
Heredity in the Social Colonies of the Hymenoptera.
— At the meeting of the Academy held May 23 Prof. Edw.
D. Cope, referring to the question of heredity in the social colonies of the Hymenoptera, remarked that perhaps the strongest case that can be made out against the theory of useinheritance has been presented by Mr. W. P. Ball, * viz.
: that of the variety of structure displayed by the neuter members of the colonies of ants and termites.
Mr. Ball describes these briefly as follows: "But there happens to be a tolerably clear proof that such changes as the evolution of complicated structures and habits and social instincts can take place independently of useinheritance.
The wonderful instincts of the working bees have apparently been evolved (at least in all their later social complications and developments) without the aid of useinheritance nay, in spite of its utmost opposition.
Working bees, being infertile "neuters," cannot, as a rule, transmit their own modifications and habits.
They are descended from countless generations of queen bees and drones, whose habits have been widely different from those of the workers, and whose structures are dissimilar in various respects.
In many species of ants there are two, and in the leaf-cutting ants of Brazil there are three kinds of neuters which differ from each other and from their male and female ancestors "to an almost incredible degree."
1 The soldier caste is distinguished from the workers by enormously large *The Effects of Use and Disuse.
Nature Series, 1890, P. 24.
Origin of Species, pp.
230, 232; Bates' Naturalist ou the Amazons.
Darwin " is surprised that no one has hitherto advanced the demonstrative case of neuter insects, against the well-known doctrine of inherited habit, as advanced by Lamarck."
As he justly observes, "it proves that with animals, as with plants, any amount of modification may be effected by the accumulation of numerous, slight, spontaneous variations, which are in any way profitable, without exercise or habit having been brought into play.
For peculiar habits confined to the workers or sterile females, however long they might be followed, oould not possibly affect the males and fertile females, which alone leave any descendants."
Some slight modification of these remarks, however, may possibly be needed to meet the case of " factitious queens," who ( probably through eating particles of the royal food) become capable of producing a few male eggs.
heads, very powerful mandibles, and "extraordinarily different instincts.
In the driver ant of west Africa one kind of neuter is three times the size of the other, and has jaws nearly five times as long.
In another case " the workers of one caste alone carry a wonderful sort of shield on their heads. '
' One of the three neuter classes in the leaf-cutting ants has a single eye in the middle(?)
of its forehead.
In certain Mexican and Australian ants some of the neuters have huge spherical abdomens, which serve as living reservoirs of honey for the use of the community.
In the equally wonderful case of the termites, or so-called "white ants," (which belong, however, to an entirely different order of insects from the ants and bees) the neuters are blind and wingless, and are divided into soldiers and workers, each class possessing the requisite instincts and structures adapting it for its tastes.
Seeing that natural selection can form and maintain the various structures and the exceedingly complicated instincts of ants and bees and wasps and termites in direct defiance of the alleged tendency to use-inheritance, surely we may believe that natural selection, unopposed by useinheritance, is equally competent for the work of complex or social or mental evolution in the many cases where the strong presumptive evidence cannot be rendered almost indisputable by the exceptional exclusion of the modified animal from the work of reproduction."
"Ants and bees seem to be capable of altering their habits and methods of action much as men do.
Bees taken to Australia cease to store honey after a few years' experience of the mild winters.
Whole communities of bees sometimes take to theft, and live by plundering hives, first killing the queen to create dismay among the workers.
Slave ants attend devotedly to their captors, and fight against their own species.
Forel reared an artificial ant colony made up of five different and more or less hostile species.
Why cannot a much more intelligent animal modify his habits far more rapidly and comprehensively without the aid of a factor which is clearly unnecessary in the case of the more intelligent of the social insects."
The explanation of this phenomenon will be probably some day found by paleontologic discovery.
We may suppose, on the basis of discoveries already made in other animals, that the primitive ants and termites presented homogeneous colonies, and that the varied structures which they present to-day have been primarily due to the usual process of specialization through use-inheritance.
It is reasonable to suppose that the varied functions of the different members of the community have modified the structures of the parts essential to their performance.
It is probable that the earliest ants in an early geologic period, became soldiers under the usual exigencies of their struggle for existence, and having thus secured a place in the economy of nature, certain members of the communities underwent degenerative changes, appropriate to their respective functions, of a less exacting character.
In a second stage of evolution the community would present the character of a family of varied forms all of whose members would produce any or all of the types of form to be found in it, under slight diversities of condition, just as now, all species produce young of two sexes.
The differences between the members of an ant community are considerable in appearance, but not so great essentially as that between sexes.
Finally, in a third stage of the history, the function of reproduction came to be the special office of a few members of the community.
This may have been due to a deficiency of food accessible to certain individuals aborting the reproductive powers ; but whatever may have been the cause, a majority of individuals became sterile.
The reproducing members of the community, however, have continued to produce all of the forms of the community.
They produce sterile workers and soldiers, sometimes of several forms, through hereditary influences.
But this, says Mr. Ball, is evidence that inheritance can have no share in the process.
He believes that each one of the structural types of the community is produced by the treatment accorded to the young by the workers, each generation for itself.
How excessive additions to structure can be produced by starvation, he does not attempt to show.
As we have seen that the embryonic and paleontologic histories distinctly negative the idea that each generation has been produced by itself without inheritance, let us endeavor to read the riddle in the light of the knowledge we have gained from paleontology.
We assume that the most specialized types, the soldiers, represent the fertile type of the species in Liassic time, when the family first appears, or soon after.
The process of change into workers and breeders has been degenerative.
In ants, as in the case of the many other animals, slight differences in the supply of nutritive energy may prevent or produce these degenerative processes, as it appears to do in the case of the production of the sexes.
(Experiments on lepidopterous larva?
have shown that excessive food supply produces females and deficient supply produces males).
In bees, the larvae of the female (queen) receive the largest food supply; those of the males less; and those of the neuters the least of all.
How the food supply came to be varied so as to produce the several types, in accordance with the exigencies of the community, is a question to be solved by future research.
Perhaps it was due to variations in the supplies available at particular times of the year; and perhaps the ants thus acquired a habit of feeding and came to practise it intelligently.
It is enough for the present purpose to have shown that it is more probable that the basis of the entire community, the original fertile soldier, acquired his characters in the usual way: by use, and that all other forms have been derived from him by inheritance, modified by disuse or degeneracy, under the influence of variations in the food supply.
1893.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
439 December 12.
The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair.
Thirtyseven persons present.
The death of James Wood Mason, a correspondent, May 6, 1893, was announced.
December 19.
The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair.
One hundred and fiftyfive persons present.
The death of General William Lilly, a member, Dec. 1, 1893, was announced.
Prof. William Libby, Jr. made a communication on the physical geography of the Hawaiian Islands.
(No abstract. )
December 26.
Rev Henry C. McCook, D. D., in the chair.
Thirtyfive persons present.
A paper entitled "Homologies of the Alisphenoid and Petromastoid Bones in Vertebrates," by Henry C. Chapman, M. D. was presented for publication.
The Publication Committee reported in favor of the publication of the following papers in the Journal: Extinct Bovidae, Canidre and Felidw from the Plistocene of the Plains.
By E. D. Cope.
Earthenware of Florida, Collections of Clarence B. Moore.
By W. H. Holmes.
The following were ordered to be printed :
