A CONTRIBUTION TO THE LIFE HISTORY OF THE ALLEGHENY CAVE RAT NEOTOMA MAGISTER Baird.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
In 1857 Prof. S. F. Baird described a fossil Neotoma from the bone caves of Pennsylvania in a final paragraph under caption of Neotoma occidentalis on page 498 of his work on the Mammals of North America.
It reads  The bone caves of Pennsylvania have furnished me with several lower jaws of a fossil Neotoma considerably larger than the largest specimen even of any recent species which I have seen.
The body could not have been less than twelve inches in length  it differs from the others in the wider and more massive molars the lobes of which are all more nearly equal than in the rest and all rounded not angular.
The inner and outer sides of the molars are very nearly symmetrical and the indentations or folds of nearly equal depth.
The axis of the condyloid process is quite oblique and the condyle below the level of the coronoid.
The species may be called N magister.
In 1893 Mr. Witmer Stone received two specimens of a cave rat in the flesh from South Mountain Cumberland County Pennsylvania taken at an elevation of 2000 feet at a point known as Lewis's Rocks about six miles from the village of Pine Grove in the same county.
These he described' under the name Neotoma pennsylvaniea making no comparisons in the description lietween his new species and N. magister the type specimens of which came from a valley cave about 20 miles distant from Lewis's Cave.
Since then a large series of fossil specimens of N. magister included among the complete collections from Hartman's and Durham Caves and on which Prof. Joseph Leidy based his paper on Fossils in Caves and Crevices of the Limestone Rocks of Pennsylvania have been found stowed away in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Among them is a mandible of N. magister labeled from  Harrisburg Cave presented by the Smithsonian Institution and no doubt from the type lot on which Baird based his original notice of magister.
Besides ' Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Pliila. 1895.
.
Hi.
2 Eep.
Penna.
Geoi.
Surv. 1887 pp.
120. these the Academy possesses another collection from Hartman's Cave made last year by Mr. H. C. Mercer during his ieexploratiou of that cave and containing among others the only extant cranium of magistey in which the nasal bones are intact.
There are also two alcoholic specimens of a cave rat from Wythe Co. Virginia collected in 1868 by Prof. E. D. Cope.
These together with Mr. Stone's types of N. pennsylvanica two stuffed skins of the same from the Pennsylvania Alleghenies and an alcoholic specimen shown me from Mammoth Cave Kentucky by Mr. G. S. Miller form the basis of my examinations respecting the relationships distribution and proballe identity of magister and pennsylvanica.
Prof Leidy has enumerated the entire collections from these caves among which he records  92 mandibular rami 13 pairs of upper maxilhe numerous limbbones etc. of  Neotoma fioridana' which he states appear to accord with similar remains referred by Prof. Baird to a supposed extinct species with the name of Neotoma magister.
Most of these still exist in the Academy.
The Durham Cave material is more scanty but includes a more complete cranium No.
8542 than any from the Stroudsburg Cave.
This cranium lacks nasals pterygoids right squamosal malar and occipital bones and is from a rat hardly one year old.
The subjoined table of measurements in millimeters of the best of this material together with those of N. fioridana kindly furnished me by Messrs H. H.  C. S. Brimley may be considered ample enough for a critical comparison between the forms in question  3 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1894 p. f6.
 Italics mine.
1894.
215 s.iniom .lo.woi ilUMw KtutJH  s Si  to o o o 02 H D CO  P o o J
O O OS lO 'O CO  to CO CO D fi CO cr CA CO CO lO 125 U5 iC o CO CO 5 S5 Il.JSUOQ .to.iajui IIJ3U3I 1BS13I lisi3uojil0o 00 CO OJ 05 CO O 00 U3 go' 05 oo' H H H C m o O N IM 1  lO iC U.WO.ID luo.Tj .n3 looj 'H 'Uvz O   I inSnai itijox O 115 Th CO 52 o Q Qi p a o n ti 9 i D  y rS s O in tfJ 3 J  .
aSiasii S  ti 3  3 cS 5 .Sj oj cS  '..
'.  3
Ojt
O
k k   fl  o cs So  a .XI oS  i'C S'   5 3 5 'Sib'd  'C  a cs I C ' as M Oh  a a o   2 2 g 3  r ' rs C r
 .
i .3 .
 CC tr.
u    a 3  0 S S S    xi lz S  S5  D ' f i 
 b   .
a .. o  '  Sr it  prQiri  2  c3   t '  a   2Vifo s o r p  '15  rh r M 2w 3 5 i  .i  8 o o 6 o a o c5  M  M M a o o a o o O o o o o c a a C 3 cS c CS c3 Maj3w X tK X e o s s  C C tH  tC tM  23 S a e e 35 cM M a i  .a' r 5J. 0 
 f J    aaaa ..Kj k..   f V O CHO CMxag ON anSoi'B'BQ ljjIj i     McoiiOJOt50 cgiiC3JS to IC 0 0 0 0 lO O  H i ri  t COCOCOCOCOCOCO  Ol  t o eq N 1 f iH 30 O lO t o Prof. Baird's description of marixter aims to distinguish it from all forms of the genus known to him by its large size and massive rounded molars.
So far as I have examined the species of Ncotoma now known and which number five times as many as were recognized in Baird's day I find maglder to be somewhat larger than any other.
It has a comparatively short tail but the length and girth of body considerably exceeds that of other species whose total length may average more than in a series of magister.
It is a satisfaction to thus confirm the appropiiateness of Baird's specific name.
As to its cranial characters magider presents us with the largest skulls I have examined in this genus but the comparative size and shape of the molars as given by Baird cannot be said to be diagnostic.
It is probable when Prof. Baird made these comparisons he only possessed specimens of old individuals in which this peculiarity of the molars is always apparent and does not vary to any great extent among specimens of N. fuscipes floridami  or cinerea of same age and is of the same general character in all.
The same may be said of the folding and indentations of the enamel in very old specimens.
Younger specimens of maglder both fossilized and recent show a very close resemblance in tlieir molar dentition to fioridana and cinerea of same age.
The incisors and rostral portion of the skull in magider however are much wider and heavier than in any other Neotoma I have seen.
Compared with N. Jioridaria to which magider both physically and geographically shows the closest alliance it may be noted from the table of measurements that the recent and fossil crania of the cave rat are much larger than in the wood rat.
In superficial proportions the difference is less apparent but in the following particulars their divergence is constant and specific   1.
The postpalatal notch of magider is acuminate often sharply so at other times hearing in its ajex a minute blunt point directed posteriorly  in fioridana the postpalatal margin is broadly and evenly rounded or nearly square cut between the opposing last molars the pterygoids being more divergent and ielatively shorter.
2.
In magider the slits separating the palatal from the sphenoid bones are often nearly anchylosed  in fioridana they are more widely separated.
3.
The interorbital depression and supraorbital ridges of the frontals in younger specimens oi' magider are very decided  in fioi'idaiia nearly obsolete.
4.
As above stated the greater relative breadth of incisors maxillaries and njisals in magister.
Externally maglster is most conspicuously known from floridana by its densely hairy and sharply bicolored tail.
This member is relatively shorter than in Jioridana and the lateral divergence of tlie longer hairs gives it a depressed appearance which is almost exactly repioduced in halfgrown examples of the bushy tailed ashcolored rat of the northern Rocky Mountains.
The correlation of development in this character and in the shorter ears between animals of such widely separated but similar environments both of which trace their ancestry to progenitors inhabiting a seraitropical climate is a significant fact.
In body colors magister is readily distinguished from florldana by its plumbeous grayness and lack of brown above by the fulvous areas of opposing sides of lower hind neck reaching nearly across the throat and by the blackish areas around the eyes and at base of whiskers.
It therefore appears that we have in N. magider a large cave rat quite distinct from the wood rat of the Gulf States and which so far as existing remains are known to us at this date is the same animal as N. pennsylvamca Stone.
As it now stands however the case is a peculiar one.
The evidence in favor of making peiinsylvanica a synonym is conclusive so far as it is based on known facts but the impossibility of ascertaining the perishable external characters of those individuals whose fossilized remains formed the types of Prof liaird's description establishes a possibility that they represent an animal we would now consider separable from the living form.
Were the specific peculiarities of the different members of the genus Neotoma based on cranial characters of constant value the identity of magister and pennsylvaniea would be clearly estalilished ly my examinations but as yet they have not been so distinguished by anatomists.
That it is probable good cranial characters can be formulated for the species of this genus deserving recognition I feel confident.
On this basis as recently applied by Dr. Merriam it is apparent to me that pennsylvaniea will not stand as a specific name nor can it from the very nature of the case be a candidate for subspecific honors.
The points confirmatory of the identity of fossilized and living specimens of iV.
magister already demonstrated by cranial characters may be stated  ' Proc Biol.
Sot..
Wiisli. 1S94.
i.
117128.
1.
Recent date of fossil remains taken 11 contact or direct association ivith Neotoma magister in.
Pennsylvania caves.
 While no data have been preserved as to the relative position in Hartman's Cave of the extinct Dlcotyles pennsylvanicns and CaMoroidex ohioensis witli respect to more recent remains it is interesting to note that the following mammals yet existing in America were found in association and in precisely the same stages of recent or ancient preservation in the shallow upper layer of the cave floor  Lynx canadensis.
Arviaolapinetorum.
Lynx rufus.
Sltomys aniericanus.
Urocyon cinereoargeuteus.
Neotoma magister.
Vtdpes pennsylvanicus.
Arctomys monax.
Canis luptis nnbilus.
Sciurus niger cinereus.
Mephitis mephitica.
Sciurus carolinensis jyennsylvan icas Patorius erminens.
Sciurus Imdsoniciis.
Procyon lotor.
Tamias striatus.
Ursus amevicanus.
Lepus sylvaticus.
Scalops aquaticus.
Lepus americaiius.
Blarina talpoides.
Bisoi bison.
Adelonycteris fuscus.
Alces americanus.
Vespertilio gryphus.
Kangifer caribou.. Castor fiber canadensis.
Cariacus virginianus.
Fiber zibethicus.
Cervus canadensis.
Erethizon dorsatus.
Equus caballus.
Mus decumanus.
Homo sapiens.
Arvicola pennsylvanica.
2.
The Sonoran derivation of the Genus Neotoma indicates its comparatively recent postglacial advent into North Temperate latitudes.
 Dr. Coues has attempted to trace by the scant evidence then known to him the probable derivation from magister of the four existing species of Neotoma recognized in the jNIonograph of North American Rodentia.
' The evidence now had exactly reverses his hypothesis.
3.
The presence of living N magister in the caves where fossilized remains of same occur in various stages of preservation and antiquity.
 Magister does not now exist in the Carlisle valley cave.
It may have existed there in the early colonial days of Pennsylvania or its life there may date back to a time when the crests of South Mountain  Mou.
N. AmiT.
Jiod. 1S77 29 30. now infested by it were yet in the loosening grip of the ice age.
Mr. Paret writes me that he has no knowledge of the recent existence of a cave rat in Hartman's Cave.
I have been told that such an animal is found among the cliiis and rocky crests of the Kittatinny range on the opposite side of the Delaware River in AVarren Co.  New Jersey.
4.
The lack of any trace of guaiviiir apoit the bones of mammals from Hartman Cave not now existing in America as contrasted with the uniformly rateaten condition of the bones of those knoivn to have inhabited Pennsylvania in he history of man.
 The specimens of Dicotyles pennsylvaniciis and Castoroides ohioensis from Hartman's Cave are ungnawed as is likewise the ramus of caribou there taken while those of the beaver elk and bison animals recently exterminated in Pennsylvania show the unmistakable marks of a rat's teeth.
It therefore appears that the evidence so far as we know it tends only to establish the identity of the fossil Neotoma of Baird with the species now living in the same localities.
On the other side the argument is purely presumptive and if we admit a distinction no differences being proven between magister and pennsylvanica the fossilized remains of foxes wolves beavers and other animals found in association with the rat bones in the Carlisle and Stroudsburg caves are as fully entitled to specific separation from their living Pennsylvania representatives as are the rats.
No one who would be unwilling to thus follow such a precedent to its logical conclusion can consistently endorse the precedent.
Had Prof Baird been aware of the facts as we now know them the question would never have arisen or if it had would have been decided in the case of the rat as it was decided in that of the fox and wolf and beaver.
Habits and distribution of Neotoma magister.
 I paid a visit to Lewis's Rocks the type locality of Mr. Stone's specimens of jennsylvanica in the spring of 1893 for the purpose of obtaining some knowledge of the animal's habits.
The rocks lie at the top of the mountain and form the culminating point of a rocky outcrop topping the ridge for a mile or more in this locality and which at intervals assumes a very rugged and castellated outline.
The cave rats live in the more inaccessible fissures and clefts of these rocks selecting for their dormitories those which are most secure from the approach or entrance of the predaceous animals which abound in such situations.
The entrances and passageways to these abodes are loosely barricaded with sticks stones leaves feathers bones horse and cow dropjjings buttons glass tin eggshells cai'tridgecases and other castaway evidences of the sojourn of men and animals in this spot.
Many of the sticks are three to four feet long and an inch in diameter and must have required the concerted strength of several rats to move and not a little ingenuity to convey up and over the precipitous clefts to their restingplace.
The bones were those of deer smaller carnivora birds and other animals brought thither by man and beast or which had sought refuge among the clefts to die.
I was unable from the nature of their fastnesses and lack of time and proper implements to penetrate their dormitories and owing to tlie pilfering foxes lost the only specimens that got into my traps.
One halfgrown rat was seen running among the rocks.
It was lighter gray than adult specimens.
Quantities of gnawed acorn hulls strewed their hiding places and were the chief evidences of the diet of this species.
These acorns grow abundantly on the scrub oaks Qnercvs banisteri characteristic of these mountain tops.
While its main food supply is vegetable no doubt these rats are omnivorous and take every opportunity to satisfy their carnivorous appetite.
The gnawed condition of the bones of recent mammalia found in Pennsylvania cave deposits is to my mind almost solely due to the work of this quadruped a critical examination of these marks showing not only their rodent origin but that their size and character tit no tooth so well as that of maglster.
I am informed by Mr. H. C. Mercer whose recent explorations of Virginia caves has been ably outlined in a Bulletin of the University of Pennsylvania dated July 4 1894 that the Virginia cave rats build a subglobular nest of grass etc. on the cave floor and that these are so well made internally as to resist considerable kicking about.
Prof. E. D. Cope who secured the two specimens of iii.
i.4er tabulated above fi'om a cave in Wythe Co. Virginia tells me that these nests are placed at or near the sides of the cave and are often large enough to fill a bushel basket.
The habitat of living Neoioma maglster cannot be verified by a representative series of specimens from connected localities but from those now in possession and the testimony of several of my correspondents in Pennsylvania niid New Jersey it is coordinate with the Alleuiieiiiau Fauna as restricted by Dr. J.
A. Allen' and extends northward toward the Canadian Fauna as far as Potter County Pennsylvania in the west and probably along the Blue Ridge to the Delaware River.
It is possible that it may be found in northern New Jersey.
The specimens of Neotoma taken on the Hudson River by Jolm G. Bell and mentioned by Baird in his work on mammals are apparently from the table of measurements large N. jioridana.
It is doubtful if X macjider ever inhabited the State of New York and the specimens taken by Mr. Bell were probably imported in a cargo of southern lumber.
Probably the earliest reference to the Allegheny cave rat in literature is made by the Swedish naturalist Peter Kalm in 1759 in his book of Travels where he quotes John Bartram of Philadelphia as authority for the existence of such an animal in the  Blue Mountains.
This reference is quoted by Pennant in his History of Quadrupeds page 441 under caption of American Rat as follows   Mr. Bartram in Kalm's Trav. ii 48 mentions the rat but does not determine the species which lives among the stones and caverns in the Blue Mountains far from mankind comes out at night and makes a terrible noise but in very severe weather keeps silent within its holes.
William Turton in his Systema Naturte 1802 p. 80 enumerates an American rat to which he gives the name Miu amerieanus.
His description is mainly a quotation of Pennant's account above cited of the same animal.
Were not Turton's binomial antedated by the Mm agrarius var.
amerkanas of Kerr Syst.
Nat. 1792 231 now accepted as the first tenable name for the eastejrn whitefooted mouse Sitomys amevicanwi.
Kerr it would have a strong claim in the light of our present knowledge to precedence over Baird's specific name magister. '
Bull.
Amcr.
Mus.
N. Hist.. 1892 pi.
viii.
22 proceedings of the academy of 1894.
August 7.
Mr. John G. Rothermel iu the chair.
Eleven persons present.
A paper entitled Further Notes on the Embryonic Whorls of the Muricidiv.
' by Frank '.
Baker was presented for pullication.
August 14.
Mr. Charues Morris in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
The death of George A. Binder August 13 1894 was announced.
AuiusT 21.
Mr. Louis Woolman in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   A New Sufamily of Murine Rodents  the Neotomine  with description of a New Genus and Species and a Synopsis of the Known Forms by C Hart Merriam.
Descriptions of Four New Species and Two Subspecies of WhiteFooted Mice from the United States and British Golumbia  by Samuel N. Rhoads.
AuciUST 28.
Dr. C. Newlin Peirce in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
A paper entitled Descriptions of Eight New Species of Pocket Mice Genus Perognathus by C. Hart Merriam was presented for publication.
The following were ordered lo be printed  1894.
223
