THE BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA WEST INDIAN EXPEDITION OF 1890 AND 1891.
BY E. D. COPE.
The species enumerated or described in the following pages were collected in the course of a yachting expedition conducted by Professor J. T. Rothrock at that time Professor of Botany in the University of Pennsylvania among the northern islands of the West Indies.
Collections were made at the following islands of the Bahama group New Providence Eleuthera Watlings Island Crooked Island and Great luagua.
They next touched at the eastern point of Jamaica at Port Morant and later at Port Luce at the western extremity.
The last collections were made at Gi'aud Cayman Island.
The zoologist of the expedition was Mr. J. Percy Moore now Instructor in Comparative Anatomy and Zoology in the University of Pennsylvania.
To his care we are indebted for an excellent series of the vertebrata of the islands visited.
The collection of Batrachia and Reptilia enumerated in the following pages is one of the best ever made in the region.
Collections from Crooked Island and Inagua are especially welcome as but little was previously known of their vertebrate fauna.
Mr. Moore has furnished me with notes of his observations which are added in their places in quotation marks.
New Providence.
Trachyceplialus septentrionalis Tsch. 
This large tree toad was met with abundantly everywhere in the Bahamas and on Grand Cayman.
About the sisal plantations on New Providence great numbers could be taken one or more being concealed beneath the bases of the thick fleshy leaves of almost every plant.
Their cry when taken in the hand is very startling having much of the force quality and pitch of the cry of a young infant.
They are said to spawn in the wells.
Anolis principalis Linn.
Anolis sagrae D.  B. 
This is one of the most widely distributed and abundant of Bahaman Anoles.
The species is most characteristic of the more northerly islands of those visited by us they are very abundant on New Providence fairly swarming on Eleuthera and less common on the islands south and east.
We failed to find this species on Fortune Isl.
and Great Inagua.
They are equally at home on the ground and in trees preferring to seek their food on the former.
They are very pretty when raised high on the forelegs with head elevated and body in a quiver of excitement they pause to detect the movement of an insect upon wdiich they spring with much agility and devour in an instant.
Their principal food is ants which they seek along fences by the roadside among the trees and in and about houses.
Like the other Anoles they are fond of sunning themselves and lie on stones or fences with the legs stretched lazily along the sides of the body.
On the island of Eleuthera where they are known to the natives by the name of Iquana they are fond of lying on the branches of bushes overhanging the freshwater ponds.
Outside of the Bahamas A. sagrce was met with in Jamaica where they are particularly abundant on the north shore about Port Lucea. 
Anolis distichus Cope. 
Common on New Providence and less so on Eleuthera.
Their habits in general resemble those of A. sagrce but the species is especially common on the ground in banana and sisal plantations.
Anolis oligaspis sp.
nov.
Plate XI fig.
5.
Tail little compressed at the base mostly lost and with a larger median dorsal row of scales.
Scales minute a few dorsal rows scarcely larger  ventrals much larger smooth.
Tibia about as long as head to posterior border of orbit.
Occipital plate oval larger than ear opening transversely divided in the single specimen separated from supraorbitals by one row of scales.
The supraorbitals are in contact and they are continued as a row of two large scales only between the anterior one which borders the orbit and the scales of the can thus rostralis.
The first pair of these two large scales is separated by a single row of small scales the second is separated by three rows of which the median is the largest and continues to between the nares.
Thus at the second large scales there are five rows of scales across the muzzle between the canthal scales of which the lateral and median are larger than the other two.
All scales of muzzle without keels a shallow basin between large rows.
Canthal scales three.
Supraoculars forming a disc of seven smooth scales which is in contact throughout its inner border with the supraorbital series.
Loreals in five rows.
The muzzle is rather short and the extended hind limb reaches to the orbit.
There are thirteen laminae beneath the second and third phalanges of the third and fourth toes.
The only specimen is a female and it is greenishgray with a brown band on each side of the vertebral line which is similar in color to the sides.
Throat with longitudinal series of blackish spots.
Length to vent 44 mm.
 do.
to line of meatus auditorius 14 mm.
Length of fore limb 19 mm.
 do.
of hind limb 34 mm.
 of hind foot 14 mm.
This species is remarkable for the reduction in the number of its head scales.
It resembles no other species nearly unless it be the AnoUs krugii Peters of Porto Rico which I have not seen.
There are numerous discrepancies in the description of the latter.
For instance in A. krugii the ventral scales are keeled the superciliaries are separated by a row of scales the supraorbitals are keeled there are four enlarged dorsal rows and the color is quite different.
Amiva thoracica Cope.
A common and conspicuous species especially in the northernmost of the Bahama Islands.
Like its allies this is essentially a ground inhabiting species living among the loose coral boulders in the crevices of which secure shelter and concealment may be found.
They love to lie on stones basking in the warm sunshine but are ever alert and dart away like a flash their course being indicated by a blue streak.
They are extremely difficult to catch and although very abundant on Cat Isl. and almost equally so on Eleuthera only a very few specimens were taken.
TJngualia maculata D.  B. Alsophis vudii Cope.
Cat Island Alsophis vudii Cope.
Port Howe.
Eleuthera.
Anolis principalis L. Tarpum Bay.
A most beautiful species of essentially arboreal habits.
Widely distributed but apparently not very common anywhere.
They are found among the smaller trees and bushes leaping actively about and performing many interesting acrobatic feats in pursuit of insects.
New Providence Governors Harbour and Tarpum Bay Eleuthera Port Howe Cat Isl. French Wells Crooked Isl. and Fortune Isl.
Anolis sagrae D.  B. Tarpum Bay.
Ungualia maculata D.  B. Tarpum Bay. '
' This species is common throughout the Bahamas visited by our party but the U. cana was found only on Great Inagua.
The species have similar habits.
They are found during the day coiled up under stones in the dryest hottest places with such incompatible company as centipedes scorpions and tarantulas for they are very mild tempered little snakes.
Crooked Island.
Anolis principalis brunneus subsp.
nov.
Plate X fig.
3.
This form is allied to A. principalis.
It has the same shaped head and the same squamation of the body with similar proportions of limbs.
It falls outside the usual range of variation of A. principalis in some points of squamation of the head and in the color.
Thus the supraorbital rows of scales are continued forward to between the nostrils not reaching the canthus rostralis and are in contact throughout except an occasional separation by a single scale.
Thus there are but 45 rows across the front instead of 78 in principalis.
There are but three loreal rows the middle one consisting of but one or two scales while there are 57 in the A. principalis.
The six or seven supraocular plates are of subequal size and are obscurely keeled and are in immediate contact with the supraorbitals  in A. principalis they are of unequal size and are separated from the supraorbitals by a series of small scales.
On the inferior side of the second and third phalanges of the fourth digit of the posterior foot there are 18 20 lamella in the A. principalis there are 24.
The color is different from that of any stage or variety of the A. principalis.
Above and on the sides leatherbrown.
On each side two dark brown stripes the superior the wider and sending cross processes towards the middle line of the back.
Posteriorly it is broken up into a series of dark brown spots which become wider and finally unite in crossbars on the tail.
Below light yellowish the throat indistinctly lined with darker.
Total length 123 mm.
 do.
to vent 43 mm.
 to line of auricular meati 14 mm.
 of fore limb 15 mm.
 of hind limb 27 mm.
 of hind foot 12 mm.
Liocephalus carinatus Gray.
Scales in 46 rows 56 supraoculars 3 introfrontonasal scales.
Generally distributed throughout the Bahamas this species is especially abundant on Crooked Isl.
 were Anoles are comparatively uncommon.
The larger vegetation is very sparse here and loose piles of coral rock near the shores are overgrown by a comparatively open bush or scrub.
It is here that the species abounds scurrying about on the ground and only rarely climbing into bushes.
They are very inquisitive creatures and come close up to look at one then running back a yard or two pause again and raising themselves on the forelegs look about with elevated heads a strange admixture of curiosity and timidity ready to run again at the slightest alarm.
While in running the Anoles only slightly raise the tail from the ground and the Ameivre drag it straight out behind this species elevates the tail high over the back where it forms piglike a spiral coil which peculiarity has gained for them the name of curltail lizards.
This species hides among the rock crevices and large numbei's take advantage of the burrows of the land crab  Gecarcinus as places of concealment.
Though active they are easily caught in the hand or by means of a grass noose.
Their tails part very readily and one is frequently rewarded for his pains with only that squirming member.
Highly carnivorous and very voracious they apparently do not pause even at cannibalism as was illustrated once when a detached tail fell from my hand to the ground where its movements attracted the attention of an individual of the same species which ran down from the rocks fully twenty five feet away picked up the tail and bore it off.
A few minutes later it was seen with the tip of the still squirming tail of its neighbor hanging from between its teeth.
On another occasion a warbler which was shot and had fallen to the ground was found guarded by a large curltail which seemed about to attack it.
Great Inagua.
Anolis moorei sp.
nov.
Plate XI fig.
4.
Characters those of a prevalent West Indian type i.e. tail compressed and with a larger median superior row of scales and ab29 dominal scales smooth.
The affinities are with the A. cy botes Cope of San Domingo but the scales of the sides and most of the back are twice as large and the median dorsal rows are not abruptly larger than those adjoining.
Frontal ridges low and median basin shallow.
Tibia shorter than length from muzzle to ear.
Scales of muzzle moderate smooth.
Superciliary rows separated by one row of scales except for a short distance where they are in contact.
Supraoculars 1315 smooth those of internal and adjacent rows subequal the whole separated from the supraorbitals by small scales of different sizes.
Occipital plate equal auricular meatus separated from supraorbitals by three rows.
Five loreal rows  four canthal scales the latter connected Avith anterior supraorbital Jjy two rather large scales which are separated by four rows of scales.
In front of the basin there are nine rows of scales counting across the muzzle of which the median row is much enlarged.
In A. cybotes there are but two or three rows in the frontal basin and the middle row on the muzzle is not enlarged.
Twentyfour lamellae under the second and third phalanges of posterior fourth toe.
Fan of male reaching to between humeri.
Male with postanal plates rudimental.
Color ashen thickly mottled with small black spots on the sides and back and upper surfaces of limbs.
Spots smaller on nape.
A black band from nostril through lower eyelid to ear.
Fan greenishblack in alcohol.
In a smaller specimen perhaps a female as the fan is small there is a dark band across the supraoculars and the occiput is reticulated with black.
The median dorsal region is covered by a dark brown baud.
Total length of male 195 mm.
 do.
of head to ear 10 mm.
 do.
to vent 72 mm.
 do.
of fore limb 31 mm.
 do.
of hind limb 55 mm.
 of hind foot 23 mm.
This species differs from its nearest ally the A. cybotes in the larger scales the different arrangement of the muzzle plates the more numerous supraorbitals and mostly widely in the coloration.
In size it exceeds that species.
It is dedicated to my friend Mr. J. Percy Moore Instructor in Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania who captured the type specimens.
This handsome species was found only on Great Inagua where it is quite common.
They are distinguishable at sight during life from any species met with elsewhere by their comparatively large size and pale graybrown spotted color which on occasion changes to a more or less intense brown.
Though very active in their movements they are readily approached and captured but have an uncomfortable habit of seeking shelter among the thick clumps of a very spiny Agave.
Anolis cinnamomeus sp.
nov.
Plate XII fig.
6.
Tail compressed with enlarged median dorsal row  ventral scales keeled.
A few keeled median dorsal rows nearly equal to ventrals but soon graduating into the smaller laterals.
Caudal scales keeled.
Tibia shorter than head to ear  extended hind leg reaching to eye.
Fifteen laminae on second and third joints of posterior fourth toe.
Occipital plate equal to auricular meatus and separated from supraorbitals by three roAvs of scales.
Supraorbitals in contact with each other the anterior separated from the canthal row by two large scales.
Between the latter is a shallow basin containing two series of scales.
Three canthal scales.
Between them on the front part of the muzzle may be counted seven scales of which the median is large being one of a median longitudinal row.
Scales of muzzle smooth.
Supraocular few only six large ones and a few small ones at their external border  not or faintly keeled and separated from the supraorbitals by a single row of small scales.
Five and four rows of loreal scales.
The muzzle is of intermediate length.
Color above brown  sides pale brown  inferior surfaces pale.
Back sides and throat speckled with rather coarse black dots which are on the back rather frequently fused into short lines both longitudinal and transverse.
A black spot on the loreal region  the lower eyelid dark.
Top of muzzle in front of orbits pale.
Length from muzzle to vent 45 mm.
 to posterior line of ears 13 mm.
 of fore limb 19 mm.
 of hind limb 24 mm.
 of hind foot 15 mm.
This rather small species is allied to the A. cybotes and the A. moorei.
It agrees with the latter in the character of its scales but differs from both in the small number of both the supraocular plates and the subdigital lamellae and in the contact of the supraorliital plates and the reduced number of the scales on the muzzle.
It is darker colored than the A. moorei but is similarly speckled with black.
Two specimens were collected by Mr. Moore which from the small size of their fans I suspect to be females.
Liocephalus sp.
A distinct Liocephalus probably L. schreibersii Gray was plentiful on Great Inagua but the specimens have been mislaid.
It is a rather smaller more active soecies which carries the tail elevated but not curled.
TIngualia cana Cope.
On comparison of this species with others of the genus I have occasion to reassert the distinctness of the U. Indiana Cope from the U. macxilata with which it is united by Boulenger in the Catalogue of Snakes in the British Museum Vol.
I.
In the original description Proceed.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc 1879 p. 273 the statement is made that the scales are in twentyseven longitudinal rows which they are at some points  but at the stoutest part of the body they are in twentynine rows.
In U. maculata they never exceed 25 rows and are usually 23.
There are no interparietal plates  these are always present in the TJ.
maculata.
In the genus Ungualia the anal claws are of irregular occurrence.
In seven specimens before me they are present in only three.
The same is true of the genus Charina also usually regarded as peropodous.
In two specimens before me they are wanting.
Amiva leucomelas sp.
nov.
Plate XII fig.
8.
Ten rows of abdominal scales.
Caudal scales oblique diverging backward and outward on each side of the median series keeled the keels parallel to the middle line.
Nostril within the border of the internasal plate.
Nasal triangular small  one very large loreal plate one preocular plate descending to the fourth superior labial four suborbitals in contact with the labials except the fourth.
Six narrow superciliaries  four supraorbitals frontal not transversely divided.
Two parietals on each side of the interparietal which they do not quite equal in length while each is about equal in size to the rather elongate interparietal.
Two rows of small smooth postparietals.
'Gular scales nearly uniform some larger ones at the middle of the mesoptychium.
Dorsal scales coarsely granular round.
Three rows of plates on the forearm the external much the widest one row on the humerus with a much smaller row on each side of it the former not continuous with the large row of the forearm.
Three large and a few small preaual plates which are continuous with the 1894.
naturaIj sciences of philiAdelphia.
437 abdominals.
Femoral pores thirteen.
Thirtyfour transverse rows on the abdomen.
.
Median dorsal region brown becoming blackish and then black anteriorly the lateral border pale brown posteriorly but becoming white anteriorly.
A broad black lateral band from orbit to above femur bounded below by a narrow white stripe.
Head brown on sides and above limbs lead colored above.
Inferior surfaces bluishwhite  tail with the scales darker at the base than elsewhere.
Near the base of the tail the darker color is leaden but at the middle and beyond it passes to bluish and blue  and the pale portion varies in a corresponding way to pale blue.
No black lines on posterior face of femur.
Length to vent 57 mm.
 do.
of fore limb from axilla 16 mm.
 do.
of hind limb 35 mm.
 of hind foot 21 mm.
This very handsome species is allied to the A. polops Cope of St. Croix but differs in several respects.
The median dorsal scales are not enlarged as in that species and there are five fewer femoral pores and the lateral caudal scales are keeled not smooth.
The coloring is quite different.
In the A. polops the dorsal region is olivegray and there are three white longitudinal lines on each side and a pair of black lines on the posterior face of the femur.
This handsome species was found only on Great Inagua where they occur very commonly.
The colors are very bright during life and this fact as well as their activity makes them very pretty objects to watch.
Much smaller than Ameiva thoracica which was not found on Inagua and perhaps even more active they are extremely difficult to catch and specimens were only secured by recourse to the shotgun.
They frequent the paths and roadsides and the rocks about the shores.
Jamaica.
Bufo agua Daud.
This great toad is very common in the meadows along the streams about Lucea Jamaica where they are called frogs.
Quite nocturnal in habit they spend the day in burrows beneath stones and rubbish and at night come forth to splash through the water and rank grass along the shores of streams.
When the light from a bullseye lantern is flashed on them they crouch and attempt to conceal themselves.
In the water they are quite at home and swim easily but on land progress in a very lumbering way the legs seeming too weak to propel the heavy body.
Young ones were found concealed under rubbish.
 Hylodes martinicensis D.  B.
Port Lucea and Blue Peak.
Lithodytes lentus Cope.
A single example of this handsome black and orange treetoad was taken at Port Lucea clinging to a shrub overhanging a stream.
Xiphocercus valenciennei D.  B.
Port Morant.
This fine species was rarely met with and was collected only at Port Morant and Port Antonio Jamaica.
At the former place lizards of all kinds are uncommon owing to the abundance of the mongoose which animal has exerted a marked influence on the reptilian fauna of Jamaica.
Snakes of all kinds have been exterminated so completely that we failed to find a single specimen.
The same is true of the larger groundinhabiting lizards.
The present species lives on and about the trunks of cocoanut trees.
Anolis grahamii Gray.
Port Morant Port Antonio Port Lucea.
Notwithstanding the mongoose this species is generally abundant about the coast of Jamaica and on Grand Cayman though noticeably more so in thickly settled districts where they are familiarly known as the clucking lizards and welcomed into houses over the walls and ceilings of which they run with apparent ease.
Their habits were studied about Kingston and elsewhere.
At midday in the hot sunshine along fences they are seen at their best.
They extend and retract the brilliant scarlet goitre in a regular rhythmical way as a flattened fold the body meantime passing through a remarkable series of color transitions from rich brown or almost a chocolate color through pale browns grays dull greens to bright bluegreens some individuals retaining more of one color some more of another sometimes plain sometimes spotted until one almost wearies in counting the variations and changes.
The colors are more or less related at any moment to the colors of surrounding objects.
This is a very active lizard which runs with great swiftness along the fences and branches of trees often taking flying sidelong leaps of surprising length but clinging surely by means of the adhesive disks by which they are enabled to cling even to such smooth surfaces as window panes.
At Port Morant they were especially abundant in the cocoanut groves concealing themselves when alarmed beneath the matting which envelops the bases of the leaf petioles.
Their food in the vicinity of Kingston is largely ants and wood ticks.
Anolis flabellatus sp.
nov.
Plate XII fig.
7.
Allied to A. grahamii but with the abdominal scales smooth the supraorbital scales continued as a distinct series of larger scales to the canthus rostralis the scales of the muzzle not keeled.
The occipital scale is about as large as the auditory meatus and it is separated from the supraorbitals by one or two rows of scales instead of four or five as in the A. grahamii.
Supraorbitals separated by one row of scales  supraorbitals 1314 keeled and of various sizes becoming smaller externally.
The frontal ridges are not elevated as in the A. lineatopus Gray but the front is flat nearly as in A. grahamii.
Three scales separate the anterior supraorbital from the canthus rostralis which itself is marked by five scales.
Seven rows on the muzzle between the canthus  ten rows in the A. grahamii.
Twentyone lamellae under third and fourth phalanges of posterior fourth toe.
The tibia is shorter than from the muzzle to the ear and the extended hind foot reaches to the eye.
The dorsal and lateral scales are of equal size.
The fan is large extending posterior to the axillae in males.
Color above brown lighter on the sides and marbled on both regions with darker brown.
Below pale with darker reticulations on the chin.
Color of fan not dark.
Length to vent 46 mm.
 to ear 13.5 do.
of fore limb 21 mm.
 of hind limb 36 mm.
 of hind foot 15 mm.
This species need only be compared with the A. grahamii to which it is allied.
Besides the characters mentioned it is smaller and is of a different color the A. grahamii being more or less green and not tending to brown.
It resembles more strongly the A. grahamii conspersus of Garman which is rather intermediate between the A. flabellatus and the A. grahamii.
The A. g. conspersus is as large as the latter and is peculiar in coloration.
From Port Morant and Port Lucea abundant.
A slender pretty species found on the north shore of Jamaica at Port Antonio and Port Lucea.
It is not very common and is found  chiefly among the dense masses of aerial roots which hang from the trunks and branches of the Indian fig Ficus indica where it drives the wouldbe collector almost to distraction by quietly slipping into au ever present crevice just as his hand descends on the spot where in his mental image it still rests.
Its slender form and brown color admirably fit it to its habitat.
This species was also found just within the entrance of a cave at Port Antonio. '
' Anolis sagrae D.  B.
Port Lucea.
Aristelliger praesignis Hallow.
Port Morant.
A small gecko perhaps the young of this species was taken by Mr. Moore at Port Morant about January 12 1891.
Its colors are much more elegant than those of any specimen either adult or young which I have seen but the scale characters are the same.
The color is light fawn darker on the head a dark band through the eye lips whitish spotted.
A black scapular spot with a small yellow center on each side behind it a delicate vertical yellow line.
Narrow vertical yellow lines on the sides and indistinct brownish dorsal crossbars behind the middle of the length.
Length of head and body 27 mm.
Sphaerodactylus goniorhynchus sp.
nov.  Lateral and anterior surfaces of rostral plate separated from superior surface by a curved solid right angle which is not continued posteriorly.
Dorsal scales about equal to ventrals acute imbricate keeled.
Scales of top of head similar but smaller.
Ventral and pectoral scales similar to dorsal keeled.
Tail covered everywhere with similar scales whose free apices give it a chaffy appearance.
Eyelid covered from middle of front to superior posterior border with large chaffy scales which are larger than those on the front.
Upper part of rostral plate split.
Labials .
Muzzle short its length from orbit equaling from orbit to auricular meatus.
Color dark marone above below light reddishbrown the colors blending on the sides of the body but separated by a sharp undulating line on each side of the tail.
An indistinct undulating pale line extends from the neck on each side of the back and dorsal surface of the tail which sends short processes inward especially on the tail.
This line is only clearly seen in the dead animal when it is ill spirits.
Gular region paler uniform.
Total length 43 ram.
 length of body and head 23 mm.
This species is well distinguished by the form of the end of the muzzle and by the keeled ventral scales.
The superciliary scales are also entirely peculiar as they present several free points upwards and backwards in place of the spinelike process found in the other species.
Port Antonio.
Grand Cayman.
Trachycephalus septentrionalis Tsch.
Anolis grahamii conspersus Garman.
Very common on Grand Cayman where they occur in great numbers about the gardens and banana orchards.
Liocephalus varius Garman.
Found only on Grand Cayman where it is common among stones by the roadside and in stone walls.
Habits similar to L.
carinatus.
Aristelliger praesignis Hallow.
Only one specimen taken on Grand Cayman.
It clung so firmly to the tree trunk on which it rested that much of the skin of the bark was torn away in removing it.
The habits of this gecko are similar to those described for its allies  while its sluggishness and stupidity distinguish it sharply from the other lizards here described.
Alsophis angulifer caymanus Garman. '
' This snake is very common on Grand Cayman and I recall one stone wall by the roadside that was fairly alive with them.
On the top stones many were lying warming in the sunshine while from crevices everywhere heads protruded.
Their movements and general actions resemble what is most familiar in our garter snakes.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES X XI AND XII.
Plate X.
Fig.
1.
Holarehus dolletjanus Cope about 1.5 natural size.
Fig.
2.
Trimerodytes balteatus Cope about 2.5 nat.
size.
Fig.
3.
Anolis principalis brunneus Cope about 2.5 nat.
size.
Plate XI.
Fig.
4.
Anolis moorei Cope about 2.
5 nat.
size.
Fig.
5.
Anolis oligaspis Cope about 2.5 nat.
size.
Plate XII.
Fig.
6.
Anolis cinnamomeus Cope about 2.5 natural size.
Fig.
7.
AnoUs flahellatus Cope about 2.5 nat.
size.
Fig.
8.
Amiva leucomelas Cope about 2.5 nat.
size.
Lettering.
a Head from above b do.
side e do.
below d scales from the side e median dorsal scales  anal region g hind leg and anal region  h posterior foot from below.
December 4.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the Chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
A paper entitled  The Sadsbury Steatite  by Theodore D. Rand was presented for publication.
December 11.
The President General Isaac J. WiSTAlt in the Chair.
Thirty persons present.
The death of J. Bernard Brinton M. D. a member was announced.
December 18.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the Chair.
Thirtyfive persons present.
December 25.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the Chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a paper entitled The Osteology of Hysenodon by Wm.
B. Scott in the Journal of the Academy.
The following was adopted   REPORT OF the COMMITTEE ON THE HAYDEN MEMORIAL GEOLOGICAL AWARD.
The Committee appointed to recommend to the Academy a suitable recipient of the Hayden medal for this year begs leave to report that in examining the claims of the many savants from those countries which have not yet been represented by an award the attention of your Committee was naturally arrested by Gabriel Auguste Daubree of France whom it has selected by unanimous vote for the honor.
Your Committee takes great pleasure in recommending that the Hayden Medal of this year be awarded by the Academy of Natural Sciences to Professeur Gabriel Auguste Daubree Membre de I'lnstitut et Grand Officier de la Legion d'Honneur.
Very respectfully J. P. Lesley Bekj.
Smith Lyman Angelo Heilpein Theo.
D. Rand Persifor Frazer Chairman.
 Gabriel Auguste Daubree was born in Metz June 25 1814 and is therefore now in his eightyfirst year.
He graduated from the Ecole Polytechnique in 1834 and immediately received a commission to assist in the geological exploration of Algeria.
He was called to the chair of geology in Strasbourg in 1839 and was Dean of its Scientific Faculty in 1852.
He was appointed EngineerinChief in 1855.
In 1861 upon the death of the distinguished Cordier he was selected to replace him in the Museum of Natural History and as Professor of Mineralogy in the Ecole des Mines as well as in the Academic des Sciences in Paris.
He was Director of the Ecole nationale des Mines for a number of years and while filling this responsible office was invariably courteous and generous in allowing foreigners the privilege of using its collections and library and in assisting them in all ways to attain what they sought.
His writings have been numerous original and important and it is to his genius and patience that we owe much of our insight into the intricate causes of crystalline structure and the creation of the branch of experimental geology.
In 1841 he published his Amas des minerals d'etain in which a new theory was announced of the origin of the puzzling distribution of tin in its ores.
In 1846 he published researches in Norway and a theory of the occurrence of gold in the Rhine valley.
At intervals he published a long series of memoirs of exceptional originality and interest among which may be mentioned Arsenic in combustible minerals Volcanic rocks Sea water Thermal springs and metallic lodes Chemical composition of planetarybodies and finally the crown of his labors La geologie experimentale Recherches experimentales sur les forces qui ont du produire le metamorphisme 18571860 and the classic work of recent years Les eaux souterraines. 
He has also published a valuable work Experiences synthetiques relative aux meteorites and Classification adoptee par le Musee de I'Histoire Naturelle de Paris.
The following were ordered to be printed   A KEW INSECTIVORE FROM THE WHITE RIVER BEDS.
BY W. B. SCOTT.
The American Tertiary formations have yielded a surprisingly scanty insectivorous fauna.
Many names have it is true been proposed but for the most part these names have been given to such fragmentary and uncharacteristic specimens that they remain mere nomina nuda.
Only one family the Leptictida' is at all well understood and the ancestors of even the peculiarly American recent types are still quite unknown.
During the past summer Mr. M. S. Farr of the Chicago University Expedition to the White River bad lands of South Dakota had the good fortune to discover an insectivorous type new to the American Tertiary fauna and representing an undescribed genus.
For the opportunity of studying and describing this very interesting specimen I am indebted to the kindness of Professor Baur to whom I desire to express my very sincere thanks.
The specimen consists of the facial region and mandible Avith nearly complete dentition of a small animal which upon examination proves to be a member of the family Soricidce or shrews though not altogether agreeing with the definition of that family as usually given.
This is the first of the family to be found in any Tertiary horizon of North America.
The genus may be called Protosorex and is defined as follows Maxillary dentition much as in Sorex hut with less reduced third molar and smaller internal cusps on last premolar.
Mandible with four minute teeth between the molars and the large procumbent incisors.
In all other known Soricidce the number of such teeth is two except in one species of Myosorex which sometimes has three.
The species P. crassus sp.
nov. is characterized by the rather short and broad face vaulted palate straight alveolar border and by the relatively large size.
The type specimen is of an individual rather advanced in life and all the facial sutures have disappeared.
The upper surface of the frontonasal region is tiaighter broader and more flattened than in the recent species of Sorex.
The zygomatic arches have already completely disappeared the suborbital portion of the maxillary terminating in a rounded surface.
The infraorbital foramen is very large and occupies the usual position above P and 5.
In advance of p4 the muzzle is quite sharply constricted and narrowed.
The palate is quite deeply vaulted and concave transversely  between the molars of the two sides it is broad but narrows rapidly in front of them.
No foramina or failures of ossification are visible in the palate.
The posterior nares have a similar shape and position to those of Sorex but differ in the raised and thickened front border.
The anterior portion of the muzzle is slender and tubular and the narial opening is small and terminal.
The horizontal ramus of the mandible is proportionately stout and bears a single conspicuous mental foramen beneath the first molar.
Condyle and angle are missing.
In the upper jaw the crowns of the anterior teeth are broken away leaving only the fangs.
The first incisor was large and compressed like that of Sorex but it is impossible to determine whether it had the basal cusp found in that genus.
This is followed by four minute singlefanged teeth the homologies of which are doubtful.
The last premolar is as large as though much less complicated than a molar it resembles the corresponding tooth of Sorex but the internal cusp deuterocone is relatively less expanded and basinshaped.
The molars have the same construction as in Sorex the last molar is much the smallest of the series though less reduced than in the modern genus.
The large lower incisor has lost most of its crown but it w'ould appear to be less entirely procumbent than in Sorex.
Behind this tooth come four minute and closely crowded teeth with compressed chisellike crowns of which the first and the fourth are slightly larger and more prominent than the others.
As in the upper jaw the molars are like those of Sorex.
Measurements.
Length of upper dental series exclusive of 1st incisor JNI.
0.009   molar series .... .004  lower dental series exclusive of incisor .
.007   molar series .... .005 Length of palate .
.
.
.
.
 .010 Breadth of palate at 5 .004 Measurements  continued.
Breadth of face at orbits ..... M. .008 p3 .005 Depth of maudible at 5 .0025 Protosorex represents the most primitive type of Soriddce which has yet been discovered as is shown by the large number of teeth which it has retained.
It is however not the most ancient form of shrew known the phosphorites of Quercy which are as old or older than the White River beds having yielded species of Sorex Amphisorex Filhol This points to a very high antiquity of the family.
PTERODRILTJS A REMARKABLE DISCODRILID.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
Among a number of additional new species of Discodrilidse which have come into the writer's possession are two which differ so remarkably from the known type of structure of these interesting parasites that an immediate description of their peculiarities seems desirable.
A new genus Pterodrilus is proposed for them characterized by the presence on certain of the postcephalic somites of paired dorsal ajpendages chiefly developed from the muscular layers of the body walls.
The genus resembles American Discodrilids hitherto described in the presence of a second pair of vasse deferentiaj in the Vlth postcephalic somite in addition to the pair in the Vth somite which alone is present in the Eui'opean Branchiobdella.
Both pairs open to the exterior in the Vlth somite by the usual form of efferent apparatus.
The dorsal and ventral cuticular jaws are similar to one another and each is normally bilaterally symmetrical though not infrequent variations affecting this symmetry are notable.
The external openings of the anterior pair of nephridia are united in a common muscular vesicle having an outlet on the dorsum of somite III.
In the two species at present known the spermatheca is a simple sac with glandular and muscular walls opening on the ventral middle line of the Vth somite.
The atrium shows the usual division into bursa penis sheath and glandular atrium the vasa deferentia opening into the latter which is short and stout.
The ovaries are attached to the posterior face of the septum VIVII and the ovipores are situated between the major and minor annuli of somite VII.
As usual in the Discodrilidie the nervous system consists of a doubly bilobulate supraoesophageal ganglion united by partly ganglionic ci reninoesophageal connectives with the ventral nerve cord which develops three pairs of deeply bilobed cephalic ganglia eight pairs of double postcephalic ganglia and a posterior nerve mass composed of three fused pairs of double ganglia making a total of eleven postcephalic ganglia corresponding to the eleven biannulate body somites.
30 The vascular system presents the usual supraintestinal vessel with its anterior portion modified to form a heart a supraneural vessel a perienteric blood sinus four pairs of vascular arches in the head one pair each in the 1st and Vllth postcephalic somites and one pair uniting the longitudinal trunks posteriorly in the IXth and Xth somites.
Two pairs of cephalic and eight or ten of caudal adhesive glands are present as well as circumoral and hypodermal mucous glands.
An inconspicuous clitelluni is developed on somites VI and VII.
No salivary gland such as is found in Bdellodrilus illuminatus is present.
Regarding the function of the dorsal organs there is little to say.
A priori one would expect them to be respiratory but the apparent entire absence of bloodvessels which are unrevealed after a careful study of sections would tend to throw strong doubt upon such an interpretation.
Irregular spaces are evident here and there between the muscle fibres but these appear to be continuous with the intermuscular spaces which are developed betweeu the circular and longitudinal muscle fibres of the body walls and have not been traced into any communication with the body cavity.
Until an opportunity is afforded of studying living examples in their proper habitat and observing the uses to which these organs are put no opinion can be vouchsafed.
The two species are ot relatively minute size and were at first regarded as larval stages of another Discodrilid until sections revealed the presence of perfectly mature spermatozoa and ova some of which latter were in the course of extrusion through the ovipores.
Pterodrilus alcicornus sp.
nov. PI.
XIII fig.
1 profile of entire animal from a mounted specimen about half extended showing also the course of the alimentary canal the spermatheca atrium and vasa deferentia the position of the ovary and ovipores of the right side and the dorsal gland in the Vlllth somite.
X 145.
Fig.
1 one of the jaws.
X 640.
Fig.
16 transverse section through the anterior part of the Vlllth postcephalic somite passing obliquely into the ventral part of the Vllth  the ovary is cut on one side and the muscular septum on the other the intestine and nerve cord are shown  a intermuscular space.
X 200.
Fig.
If a longiti'dinal section uear the median line of the dorsal organ of somite VIII a intermuscular spaces.
X 500.
Fig.
Id section of a terminal portion of a dorsal appendage.
X 640.
In this species which is described from sections and specimens mounted entire the body is terete throughout or owing to the increase in thickness of the dorsal walls of the major annuli appears somewhat compressed at these points.
The somites VI VII and VIII are of about equal diameter those anterior and posterior to them tapering respectively toward the head and caudal disk.
Biannulation of the body somites is very marked.
The head is rather slender and consists of a circumoral anuulus divided into thick entire dorsal and ventral lips and two similar postoral rings.
The caudal sucker is a muscular disk of simple form and about the diameter of the 1st postcephalic somite its axis coincides with that of the body somites.
Dorsal organs are highly developed in this species on postcephalic somites III IV V and VIII.
Somites VI and VII and in less degree II also exhibit slight dorsal thickenings of the body musculature.
On the dorsum of the major aunulus of somite III the body walls rise into a high compressed transverse ridge or plate which fades out on the sides of the somite and is produced laterally into a conspicuous forwardly projecting trilobed wing the anterior division of which flares outward and extends far forward over somite II usually ending in a slightly bifid expansion.
The remaining lobes are simple conical tines which project upward and slightly outward.
The two wings flare so strongly that the distance between their apices is about Ih times the diameter of the somite.
Their shape is very strongly suggestive of the antlers of a young moose hence the name given to this species.
The generic name was also suggested by this species in which the dorsal organs have a winglike aspect not seen in the other species.
The dorsal appendage of the Vlllth somite is also highly developed and similar to the one just described.
Its lateral wings however are less conspicuous and are directed posteriorly instead of antei'ioi'ly and also flare outwai'd more conspicuously.
The whole organ is strongly concave behind while that on the Ilird somite is similarly concave before.
A small gland closely resembling a clitellar gland is sometimes present in two out of three series of sections embedded in the base of the organ on each side.
On tlie IVth and Vth somites the appendages are less highly developed but are similar the low dorsal ridges bearing on each side a pair of slender and simple cylindrical processes.
An examination of figures lb Ic and Id will make the structure of the characteristic dorsal appendages clear.
The transverse dorsal ridges are built up chiefly of short thick longitudinal muscle fibres which extend between the anterior and the posterior covering of hypodermis.
Spaces partly filled with a connective tissue network are observable among the fibres and a similar more extensive space a figs.
16 Ic separates the muscles of the dorsal organ from the longitudinal muscles of the body walls.
A few vertical muscle fibres are also developed in the lateral margins of the ridges.
Over this firm muscular basis the hypodermis with the circular muscle layer extends and this alone with a core of loose spongy tissue probably derived from the subderiiial connective tissue forms the terminal processes and lobes fig.
Id.
In the formation of these dorsal appendages from the body walls it would seem that the loose fold of hypodermis and circular muscle fibres that rises freely from the longitudinal muscle fibres is pinched up as it were at several points from which the skin and connective tissue underlying it proliferate to form the marginal processes while the space remaining becomes filled save for a few narrow clefts with muscle fibres that proliferate from the ends of the longitudinal muscle fibres of the body walls at the points where these meet the hypodermis.
The alimentary canal is enlarged to form a saccular stomach in the four anterior body somites while posteriorly it is narrow and tubular and with the exception of a slight transverse loop in the Vllth and Vlllth somites proceeds directly to the anus on the dorsum of somite X.
The jaws are small measuring .02 mm.
in breadth.
They are of similar form being quadrideutate with a median pair of long sharplyconical widelyseparated and divergent teeth bent at a nearly right angle from the plane of the somewhat quadrangular basal plate.
In extreme lateral positions are a pair of inconspicuous blunt teeth.
When in position the basal plates are fixed in the cuticle of the pharynx and the points of the teeth of the two jaws cross in the pharyngeal lumen.
The spermatheca lies in tlie Vth somite to the left of the intestine.
1894.
naturaIj sciences of Philadelphia.
453 Its lower half is narrow and cnlindrical its upper abruptly expanded.
The copulatory bursa is rather thin walled and with the penis is capable of complete invagination.
The penis sheath is relatively short and exhibits no muscular atrial enlargement at the upper end.
The glandular atrium is short nearly spherical and thick walled.
It receives the vasse deferentire which are of the usual form.
In the mounted specimen from which figure 1 was drawn the atrium was twisted so that in the figure the anterior end is directed posteriorly.
The common opening of the anterior pair of nephridia is located on the doisum of the major annulus of somite III immediately posterior to the dorsal appendage.
The largest examples found among about a dozen specimens measure about 1 mm.
in length.
This species was found on Cambarus aeuminatus in the Johns River Watauga Co. N. C.  in the summer of 1893 but what part of the crayfish it inhabits was not determined nor have cocoons been found.
Pterodrilus distichus sp.
nov. PI.
XIII fig.
2 profile of entire animal showing intestine spermatheca atrium ovary and ovipore of one side etc.
X 145.
Fig.
2a a jaw.
X 340.
Fig.
2h transverse section through the Vlllth somite showing the dorsal appendages and the thickening of the body wall with the intestine nerve cord and portion of a nephridium.
X 145.
Fig.
2c the male efferent apparatus figured from a dissection   glandular atrium b copulatory bursa c penis sheath d bursal glands.
X about 200.
Fig.
2d section across the glandular atrium.
X 500.
In form this species is similar to P. alcicornus but the head is rather more robust and the Vllth somite is of greater diameter than VI or VIII.
Dorsal appendages are present on postcephalic somites II to VIII inclusive and are much simpler than in P. alcicornus.
The dorsal ridges are not compressed and platelike and are similar on all the somites.
On somites II to VII each bears a pair of bluntly pointed cylindrical lateral appendages while somite VIII bears two pairs they become somewhat larger anteriorly.
These appendages contain no longitudinal muscle fibres and the ridges on which they rest are largely formed as shown in fig.
26 of a muscular network derived from the circular fibres.
In somites VII and VIII a complete transverse loop is developed on the intestine which is otherwise as in P. alcicoruus.
The jaws are also very similar but diflfer in the shorter median pair of teeth and the stouter form of the basal plate.
These distinctions are exaggerated in the figures owing to the fact that they are represented in slightly diflferent positions fig.
2a being somewhat foreshortened.
The spermatheca is slender and clavate and regularly tapers fi'om blind end to mouth.
It lies to the left of the intestine.
The copulatory bursa is nearly spherical with thin muscular walls and larger bursal glands than P. alcicorniis.
Its inner surface is thrown into deep ridges among which the penis lies.
The whole structure when evaginated is shaped not unlike a mushroom and resembles the corresponding parts of Bdellodrllus philadelphicus.
The glandular atrium is remarkable in being divided by a deep cleft into two similar lobes the structure being flattened in a plane perpendicular to this cleft giving the organ a shape much resembling the conventionalized heart.
The penis sheath is short and lacks a sacular dilation.
The anterior nephridial pore is on the crest of the ridge of the Ilird somite.
In other iespects this species resembles P. alcicornus.
The largest example from which the dissection fig.
la was made from among upwards of fifty specimens measured 1.5 mm.
in length the usual size being about 1 mm.
Some small cocoons which may belong to this species were found attached to the setae at the bases of the thoracic appendages of the crayfishes from which the specimens were obtained.
Unfortunately the animals were not discovered while yet alive.
P. distichus was found in great numbers with Bdellodrllus philadelphicus B. vianus n. s. and Branchiohdella iastabilla upon specimens of Cambarus bartonii from western New York for which I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. Albert E. Lewis.
THE SADSBTJRY STEATITE.
BY THEODORE D. RAND.
Under this name I purpose describing outcrops of steatitic rocks most conspicuously exposed in West Sadsbury Township Chester County Pa. in the adjoining township of Sadsbury Lancaster Co. and less so in Valley West Cain and West Brandywine Townships Chester Co.
These though known to archeologists seem to have escaped the notice of geologists though known locally and made use of in the building of limekilns and in the lining of iron furnaces.
Long anterior to this use they were evidently of value to the aborigines whose tools are still to be found at the outcrops together with fragments of vessels manufactured by the Indians from the steatite.
My attention was directed to these exposures by Mr. Harry Wilson of Gum Tree Chester Co. who had visited the localities in the study of archaeology and who kindly took me to the most prominent outcrops.
North of the Cambrian sandstone which forms the mass of the prominent North Chester Valley Hill is a peculiar rock often resembling a pegmatite often a very feldspathic gneiss or schist occasionally a hornblende or a mica schist.
North of this is a very heavy bedded hard highly crystalline gneiss that recognized in this portion of Pennsylvania as the most ancient gneiss probably of Laurentian age identical with that of the Highlands of NewJersey and with that of the ridge which extending southwestward from near Trenton N. J.  to near Willow Grove and there bifurcating sends its southerly arm southwestward through Montgomery Delaware and Chester counties to North Brook five miles southwest of West Chester and its northerly through northern Chester County where it widens greatly.
It is this northerly arm which is referred to above.
In all its extent the rock is very compact and hard unless decomposed highly crystalline rarely if ever schistose except from decomposition and usually showing the characteristic blue quartz.
On the contrary the rock next north of the Cambrian sandstone is sometimes schistose and while often gnesssic is not nearly so densely crystalline.
The quartz is usually colorless or white.
The rock varies greatly though the quartz  orthoolase variety of coarse texture is most abundant.
AVhile as a whole differing from any other gneiss of southeastern Pennsylvania it is more unlike the ancient gneiss than it is unlike those southeast of the Trenton  North Brook ridge that is the gneisses of Rogers' first belt Mr. Hall's Philadelphia and Manayunk schists and gneisses.
To the last as a whole the resemblance is not close but the I'ock of some strata in each bear a resemblance.
It is the rock referred to by Dr. Frazer as  a rock of doubtful signification called alternately conglomerate feldspar porphyry etc.
C p.
221.
Although Dr. Frazer in his text differentiates this rock on the map it as well as the schists between the Cambrian and the limestone are colored the same as the ancient gneiss though Dr. Frazer queftions whether it is not really lower Cambrian. At Valley Forge and eastward there is in the same relation to the Cambrian sandstone a coarse conglomerate of pebbles chiefly of bluish and pinkish quartz which has been referred with little doubt to the lower Cambrian.
Could we be sure that this quartz feldspar rock represents the conglomerate a point would be gained but inasmuch as they are extremely unlike although exposed within five or six miles of each other I think we need proof of their identity.
The best exposure is along the west branch of the Braudywine north of Coatesville where they dip quite irregularly but with a prevailing southeast dip of 70 and upwards.
As this rock resembles closely no other southeast of the red sandstone and occurs so far as I am aware only in Chester County and the adjoining county of Lancaster I propose for it provisionally the name of the Chester County gneiss.
It is in this gneiss that most if not all of the outcrops of the Sadsbury steatite occur and apparently in two lines somewhat irregular.
The easternmost outcrop of the northerly line is on the farm of Mr. Thomas H. Windle on the left bank of the West Branch of  Second Geol.
Surv.
Peuna. vol.
C pp.
221 225 228 257 263.
' C pp.
257 258.
 I am under obligations to Mr. Windle for aid in this investigation.
the Brandywine iu West BVandywiue Township about half a mile N. 55 E. of Wagoiitown.
There are large loose masses some of them of a schistose variety of the gneiss containing apparently hornblende and mica and not soft and others of similar appearance but soft enough to be cut readily with a knife a steatite.
No fast rock was visible.
To the north of it a hard heavy bedded hornblende gneiss occurs.
I was informed by Mr. Windle that considerable quantities of steatite have been obtained from this point and used in the furnaces at Coatesville.
The next locality is a half mile or less N. 75 W. of Wagontowu or a little over threefourths of a mile due west from the Windle outcrop.
These measurements and orientations are estimated from the township map published by Breou 1883 but a sighting of the localities on the ground by compass magnetic variation allowed for gave the direction N. 65 E.  an inexplicable difference of 25.
This emphasizes the need of an accurate topographical map like that of the New Jersey survey.
This locality on the farm of Abraham Brubaker is immediately north of the Lancaster road which passes through Wagon town not the Lancaster Pike an approximatively parallel road a mile and a half to the southward.
An area of several acres of ploughed land is strewn with numerous masses of steatite mostly of small size while occasional fragments of basins and pots and more rarely picks made from trap rock give evidence that the red man had a workshop here.
No rock certainly in place was seen in this field but a resident informed me that forty years ago a quarry of soapstoue was wrought at this place out of which large blocks were taken for use in furnaces.
With the steatite are small masses of schistose gneiss also quartz some of it containing tourmaline.
In the steatite octahedral crystals of magnetite occur rarely.
On the westerly edge of this field is a ridge of loose sandstone rock only fifteen or twenty feet wide looking as if hauled and dumped along a fence line but the size of the slabs and their similar orientation showed that they had not been moved far or by other than natural forces.
A few hundred feet to the westward there appeared a high steep ridge of Cambrian sandstone precipitous on its southern side.
The rock at Brubaker' s is evidently the eastern termination of this ridge of sandstone as it does not appear on the Brandywine in the line of strike.
It apparently extends westward to Compassville being known further west as Sandy Hill.
 On the north side of this ridge the highly crystalline hard older gneiss appears and in it as usual considerable trap an outcrop of which appears about threeeighths of a mile north of the ridge and about a half mile north of West Cain Meetinghouse.
The next outcrop of the northern series is on the farm of William Paxson on the Philadelphia and Lancaster turnpike in West Sadsbury Township near the northwest branch of the Octorara Creek.
It is very insignificant and poorly exposed.
On the Breou map it is five miles S. 70 W. from the Brubaker outcrop.
The easternmost outcrop of the southerly line is also poorly exposed and insignificant.
It is in Valley Township on the farm of E. S. Umstead one mile N. 70 W. from Coatesville and about a mile and a half nearly south of the Windle outcrop. The next is also in Valley Township.
It is on the farm of William Hoofman about a mile N. 45 E. of Pomeroy and two miles S. 65 W. from the first.
There is a large amount of the rock here strewn in fragments over the surface.
One mass only was apparently in place striking N. 65 E. the dip uncertain.
Here cubic crystals of probably limonite pseudomorph after pyrite were found.
The steatite is in smaller masses softer and apparently more nearly approaching pure talc than at the other localities.
The third is the most extensive of these outcrops.
It is in West Sadsbury Township five miles S. 85 W. from the second and a mile and a half N. 7 W. from Atglen.
Here on the Strasburg road is the Swan Tavern.
North of it the Chester County gneiss is exposed and beyond this the steatite a short distance south of the Swan Public School.
The steatite here accompanied by chlorite and a very compact rock of a dull bluish color soft but very tough is in great quantity but wholly in loose masses.
On the road to Atglen south of the schoolhouse a white finegrained highly feldspathic gneiss dips N. 30 E. 60  an anomalous dip if the rock is iu place as it appears  This prominent sandstone hill is not shown on the map in C though mentioned in the text on jiage 262 Wagonville being evidently a typographical error for Wagontown and on p. 20 where it is referred to as an eastern extension of Copper Mine Tidge though on p. 161 it is included in the gneiss area.
 This is in the area colored yellow on the map in ' where this color representing the sandstone or quartzite is widened suddenly and greatly after an equally great narrowing northwest and north of Coatesville.
If the typical Cambrian sandstone is indicated my observations would not agree with this widening while if the  hester  'ounty gneiss is intended to be included they would not agree with the narrowing.
 C p. 270. to be.
Very close to this are two depressions out of which soapstone is reported to have been quarried.
Mr. Wilson informed me that basins of Indian manufacture were found here in comparative abundance.
At the school a public road runs nearly east.
Along this on both sides for a quarter of a mile and then on the north side the steatitic and serpentine rocks abound but none were seen certainly in place.
With these was much gneissoid rock and rusty quartz also in loose masses.
A mile east of this a large mass of steatite is visible in the road and I am informed that it occurs a half mile farther east on the Limestone road the dividing line between the townships of Sadsbury and West Sadsbury.'
Between a quarter and a half mile north of the steatite the older gneiss is visible in a road running north between two branches of the Octorara.
The fourth and westernmost of the southerly outcrops is the one which has furnished probably the greatest variety and number of specimens of Indian handiwork their quarries being still partially visible.
It is situated on the farm of George Williams in Sadsbury Township Lancaster County about one mile west of Christiaha and three miles S. 70 W. from the Swan outcrop.
The only adjacent rock visible is a feldspathic gneiss of the Chester County variety.
This is shown in numerous loose masses in a line nearly northeast from the steatite outcrop.
The steatite is strewn in fragments some of them quite large over an area of several acres and there are two places where quarries evidently existed but which have been used as dumping grounds for the adjacent rock.
In these I am informed the rock in place was exposed.
The steatite from all these localities is much alike generally schistose quite soft though impure and containing a large number of small cavities as if from the weathering out of a contained mineral.
No crystalline form was observed in the cavities they often contain ferric oxide.
The particles of talc are usually comparatively large and irregular making the rock on a casual inspection resemble a mica schist more than the talc schists of the Lafayette steatite.
The color is usually dull gray more rarely greenish.
Except at the Swan outcrop it is not visibly accompanied by serpentine.
At '' West Sadsbury was set ofiF from Sadsbury in 1878.
The dividing line is the Limestone road an old Indian trail and an important highway which is the west line of the borough of Parkesburg.
Christiana it contains garnets at Brubaker's magnetite and at Hoofraau's altered pyrite.
At Hoofman's in small quantity is a cryptocrystalline variety very soft very pale green nearly white in color and resembling the talc schist of Lafayette.
At the Swan outcrop chlorite in large folia occurs also a rock apparently one of the hornblende family changing into steatite or chlorite.
At the Windle outcrop the masses of steatite so closely resemble the adjacent masses of schistose gneiss that one is in doubt until he tests for hardness and there appears to be a gradation from the very hard to the very soft rock.
I have stated that these outcrops are in the Chester County gneiss but to this the William Paxson outcrop may be an exception.
There is an outcrop of the ancient gneiss to the southwest of it.
The exposures do not suffice to indicate much more than its certain existence.
There is one other outcrop of steatite to which my attention was called by Mr. Windle further north than any of those already mentioned and apparently isolated.
It is on the farm of Samuel Holmes and on the south branch of Birch Run an affluent of the west branch of the Brandywine in West Cain Township Chester Co.  and is in the course of the ancient gneiss which ranges north of the sandstone north of the Chester County gneiss in West Cain.
As usual the exposure is poor consisting of but a few loose masses of steatite with masses of schistose gneiss resembling it in appearance.
Perhaps the most striking feature at all these outcrops considered in relation to those on the southerly side of the valley is the rarity of serpentine.
At all other steatite outcrops in S. E. Pennsylvania of which I have knowledge serpentine rocks abound and the steatite rocks are subordinate except perhaps in the Lafayette steatite belt but in it serpentine is abundant though the steatite predominates.
In these outcrops north of the valley however serpentine is quite rare hemg found at the Swan outcrop only.
The resemblance of the steatite to the gneiss found with it is very similar to the occurrence at Chestnut Hill north of Easton Pa. and my observations lead me to the conclusion that the genesis is the same in both instances the alteration of a gneiss containing probably a large proportion of a magnesian mica and this perhaps derived from the hornblende as is certainly the case on the Schuylkill above Girard Avenue Bridge Fairraount Park Philadelphia.
 Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. Mar.
25 1890 p. 95.
1894.
NATUKAI SCIENCKS OF PHILADEI.PHIA The followiug annual reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee  REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The interest in the meetings of the Academy has been well sustained during the past year and the work of the Publication Committee the report of which it is customary to include in that of the Recording Secretary has been of more than the usual inportance.
The attendance at the meetings has averaged thirtysix.
Verbal communications have been made by Messrs. Sharp Ryder Dixon Libbey Chapman Cope VVillcox Wistar Pilsbry Holman Goldsmith Rand Mercer Brinton Allen Heilprin Woolman A. E. Brown Ball Sangree Eakins Morsell McCook Wilson Rhoads Morris Johnson Rex and McFarlane.
Such of these communications as have been reported by their authors have been published in the Proceedings.
During the year 192 pages of the Proceedings for 1893 and 376 for 1894 illustrated by 13 plates have been published.
The first and second numbers of the tenth volume of the Journal composed of two elaborate memoirs by Clarence B. Moore on the sand mounds of Florida and consisting of 246 pages and 33 plates have also been issued and distributed.
Material is now in the hands of the Publication Committee for the completion of the ninth volume which has been delayed in consequence of the character of Mr. Moore's papers and it is hoped that the last number will be distributed to subscribers and correspondents early in the spring.
There will then remain in the hands of the Committee for the continuation of the tenth volume a memoir on the development of the brain in the Anthropoids by the late Dr. Andrew J. Parker and one on the crania of the Sand Mounds of Florida by Dr. Harrison Allen the latter to be elaborately illustrated through the liberality of Mr. Clarence B. Moore to whom the Academy is also indebted for the fine plates accompanying his own communications.
The Manual of Conchology has been continued by the Conchological Section 482 pages and 79 plates having been published in the two series of which the work consists while 340 pages and 10 plates of the Entomological Kews and 344 pages and 8 plates of the Transactions of the American Entomological Society have been issued by the Entomological Section.
Fortythree papers have been presented for publication as follows Samuel N. Rhoads 7 Edw.
D. Cope 4 Wm.
B. Scott 3 Thomas Meeban 2 H. A. Pilsbry 2 Witmer Stone 2 Clarence B. Moore 2 A. Ortraann 2 C. H. Merriam 2 T. D. A. Cockerell 2 W. H. Holmes 1 Henry C. Chapman 1 David Starr Jordan 1 H. F. Moore 1 Henry C. Mercer 1 E. Goldsmith 1 Arthur E. Brown 1 Thos.
Eakins 1 Harrison Allen 1 G. C. Davis 1 F. C. Baker 1 C. W. Johnson 1 Wm.
J.
Fox 1 J.
B. Ellis and B. M. Everhardt 1 and J. Percy Moore 1.
Thirtyeight of these have been reported on favorably for the Proceedings and five for the Joui'nal.
Twentynine members and one correspondent have been elected.
The deaths of thirteen members and five correspondents have been announced.
Nine reegnations of membership have been presented and accepted.
Mr. Gavin W. Hart having resigned his position in the Council of the Academy Dr. C. N. Peirce was elected to fill the vacancy April 3a.
The ByLaws were amended February 27th by the addition of the following words to Article XIII of Chapter 5  Should any Section be dissolved become extinct or cease to exist for any cause whatever all the property and effects of such Section shall be held by the Academy for its own use in such of its departments as it may deem most appropriate preferring those nearest related to the objects of such Section except such property or parts thereof as may be subject to conditions or limitations by deed devise bequest or special agreement in which case such property shall be disposed of in accordance with such condition limitation or agreement. 
On the report of the Committee on the Hayden Geological Memorial Award the medal and accumulated interest on the fund have this year been voted to Prof. Gabriel Auguste Daubree of the Institut de France.
By permission of the Academy meetings have been held on the premises during the year by the Geographical Club the Botanical Club the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis Pennsylvania Forestry Association Woods Holl Biological Association and the United States Veterinary Medical Association.
During the absence of the Recording Secretary in Europe the duties of the office were acceptably performed by Mr.
Win.
J.
Fox.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw.
J. Nolan Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the year commencing December 1st 1893 he has received from eightytwq societies museums etc. one hundred and fortysix acknowledgments of the receipt of the publications of the Academy and from fifty four societies editors etc. sixty three notices of the forwarding of their own publications to the Academy together with fifteeij applications to exchange publications for reports etc. asking for missing numbers of the Academy's publications and one lo discontinue the exchange with the Academy.
Thirtyeight letters on various subjects have been received and thirteen written.
Fifteen circulars and invitations to the Academy to participate in congresses or meetings have been received and answered.
During the year one correspondent has been elected and notified.
The deaths of five correspondents have been reported.
Six certificates have been sent to correspondents.
Seven hundred and fiftysix acknowledgments for gifts to the library and one hundred and twentyeight for gifts to the museum have been forwarded.
Respectfully submitted Benj.
Sharp Corresponding Secretary.
464 1894.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
The additions to the library received during tlie past twelve months have shown a gratifying increase over the accessions of the year before.
They number 4866 consisting of 4335 pamphlets and partsof periodicals 475 volumes 46 maps and 10 photographs.
They were derived from the following sources Societies 2pi0 j W. W. Jefferis 6 Editors 998 i Geological Survey of PeunI. V. Williamsm Fund .
.
671 sylvania 6 General Appropriation .
.
.
420 Authors ISO United States Uep.
of Interior 78 Smithsonian Institution .
56 Hon.
D. W. Voorhees ... 51 United States Department of Agriculture 45 Geological Survey of Sweden 33 Rev.
L. T. Chamberlain .
.
20 Pennsylvania State Library 19 Wilson Fund 19 United States Department of State 18 Dr. Sajnuel G. Dixon.
.
.
17 United States Treasury Department 16 Chas.
P. Perot 15 Minister of Public Works France 12 Tennessee State Board of Health 12 9 9 9 9 9 8 Colorado Scientific Society Superintendent of the Census India Geological Survey of Italy E. L. Giiliams Thomas Meehan University of Kiel .... United States War Department Department of Mines NewSouth Wales Dr. H. C. Chapman .
.
.
Geological Survey of India 8 6 California State Mining Bureau Dr. Beuj.
Sharp Secretary of State India .
H. A. Pilsbry United States Department of Labor Kew Botanical Garden .
.
J.
A. Lintner Pennsylvania State Board of Health Geological Survey of New Jersey Geological Commission of France United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Department of Geology Indiana Norwegian Government .
.
Charles E. Smith Department of Works Mexico Costa Rica National Museum Geological Survey of Minnesota I llinois State Bureau of Labor Statistics Dr. John Eckfeldt Massachusetts Commissioners of Inland Fisheries .
Maryland State Weather Service Geologi.
'al Survey of Georgia 6 5 5 5 4 4 a 2 2 2 2  2 2 1894.
465 Geological Survey of Alabama 1 United States Fish Commisiou 1 Ujiited States Civil Service Commissiou 1 Department of Mines Nova Scotia 1 Upsal Observatory i S. R. Roberts 1 Dr. Henry Skinner .... 1 Dr. M. V. Ball 1 Directors of City Trusts Philadelphia 1 Australian Museum .... l They were distributed to the follows  Iowa Geological Survey .
.
Mrs. H. Carvill Lewis .
.
Angelo Heilprin East Indian Government .
Venezuelan Government .
Norwegian Meteorological Institute Illinois State Board of Agriculture Dr. H. C. Wood American Humanitarian League Comit6 M6t6orologique International John L. Peyton several departments of the library as Journals 3910 Geology 234 Botany 133 Conch ology 113 General Natural History .
58 Anthropology 54 Entomology 48 Mammalogy 28 Anatomy and Physiology .
27 Mineralogy 22 Voyages and Travels ... 19 Ornithology 18 Agriculture 15 Physical Science 14 Encyclopedias 11 Herpetology 10 Ichthyology .
.
Chemistry .
.
.
Helminthology Bibliography .
Geography .
.
9 8 7 5 1 In addition to these 127 works having no relation to science have been received and catalogued for future disposition by the Library Committee.
The increase in the number of accessions is due to replies received to 258 applications for deficiencies and 62 propositions for exchange of publications.
The latter included letters written to all the scientific societies and journals not yet on the Academy's exchange list the names of which could be ascertained.
The results of the correspondence have been encouraging.
The binding has been confined almost entirely to the department of journals and periodicals 403 volumes having been bound during the year while 86 volumes are now in the hands of the workmen.
Much still remains to be accomplished although the good results of the last two years' comparatively liberal appropriations for binding are 31 evident.
The volumes are always carefully collated in the Academy before being sent out of the building.
The work was interrupted during the summer in consequence of the Librarian's absence in Europe.
He took occasion to visit such libraries of scientific societies as could be reached in the cities visited and is glad to be able to state that no library devoted purely to natural history seen by him was superior either in extent or in convenience of arrangement to that of the Academy.
Perhaps the most important bibliographical aid to the scientific student is the Royal Society Catalogue of Scientific Papers.
The ten volumes now issued embrace an alphabetical arrangement of authors with the titles of their contributions from 1800 to 1883.
It has long been felt that a catalogue of these papers arranged according to subject was a most important desideratum but one which must necessarily be the work of cooperation among the scientific societies and bibliographers of the world.
Attention was called to the desirability of such a compilation in the report of the Librarian of the Academy for 1889 and it is therefore now a cause of congratulation that the subject is under consideration by the Royal Society of London.
A circular having been received from the Society asking for cooperation and suggestion a committee was appointed consisting of Messrs. Philip P. Calvert Henry Pilsbry Stewardson Brown Benjamin Sharp and Theodore D. Rand with the Librarian as Chairman to which the document was referred.
A report was adopted by the Academy to the effect  1.
That a catalogue of scientific papers as proposed by the Royal Society is desirable and that international cooperation should be engaged in its preparation.
2.
That in order to secure uniformity in all parts of such a catalogue a central bureau as suggested by the Committee of the Royal Society appears to be necessary rather than that separate portions of the catalogue should be prepared by various institutions such central bureau to be under the direction of the Royal Society from which the proposition emanates all publications of societies and monographs to be sent to such central bureau  the expenses to be met by returns from the sale of copies of the catalogue.
3.
That such a catalogue should be classified and should be issued at least once a year each volume to be provided with an alphabetical index.
4.
That the scope of such a classified catalogue should embrace the various yearlv bibliographies of special sciences now issued.
5.
That whenever translations or summaries are believed to be desirable English should be made the basis of the catalogue.
The Academy is indebted to George Vaux Mary M. Vaux George Vaux Jr. and Wm.
S. Vaux Jr. for a fine portrait in oil of the late Wm.
S. Vaux whose long connection with the Academy as Curator VicePresident and member of various executive committees for over forty years together with his permanent association with the mineralogical and archaeological departments of the Museum of Avhich the Wm.
S. Vaux Collections form an important part renders this memorial of unusual interest.
Special acknowledgment is due to Mr. Wm.
J.
Fox for his efficient and faithful discharge of the duties of the office during the Librarian's absence.
Means were again provided by friends of the Academy for the employment during the summer months of Signor Emauuele Fronani much of whose time was devoted to the correspondence regarding deficiencies and exchanges.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edward J. Nolan Lihrarion.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators report that the museum so far as regards the preservation of the specimens is in the satisfactory condition described in their last annual report while important progress has been made during the year in the rearrangement marking and cataloguing of the collections.
It is also a satisfaction to report the completion of the new museum building and the transference of some of the collections to the new galleries.
It was deemed most desirable to devote the first floor of the new museum to the departments of Archaeology and Mineralogy and in accordance with this plan the entire Vaux collection numbering 33 cases has been transferred under the direction of the Curators and Mr. W. W. Jefferis the special curator of this collection.
Mr. JeflTeris has given many valuable minerals to this great collection during the year  and thanks to his untiring energy the entire cabinet is now in systematic order.
The arrangement of the specimens in the Vaux archaeological collection will also soon be completed.
Mr. Clarence B.
Moore generously presented six handsome exhibition cases made under the direction of the Curators for the Moore collection of Indian pottery and mound relics from Florida which have been placed in the new building next to the Vaux collection.
Mr. Moore has personally superintended the transference and arrangement of his specimens which now constitute probably the most valuable archaeological series from this region in existence.
The Academy has also purchased four additional cases like those in which the Moore collection is placed and in these have been arranged the celebrated Poinsett collection of Mexican antiquities deposited by the American Philosophical Society and the Haldeman Indian collection.
In addition to these the eases of Eskimo implements and clothing have been removed to the new building and numerous spears shields kyaks and canoes have been placed in position on the walls and pillars.
In a short time the remainder of the archaeological material will be removed to the new building.
This floor will then be ready for exhibition.
The archiological department of the museum as finally arranged will form one of the finest exhibits in the country being only surpassed in value by those at Cambridge and Washington.
Containing as it does many unique specimens this department which for lack of space has been so long neglected will now be placed in good condition.
The Academy's cabinet of minerals will be transferred as soon as suitable cases can be secured.
It will be arranged contiguous to the Vaux collection of minerals.
In addition to the transference of these collections to the new building an important rearrangement has been effected in the old museum.
Nine cases have been removed to the room over the Lecture Hall which has been set apart to illustrate the natural history of Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
The mammals of these States have been selected from the general collection and many new specimens have been especially prepared for it while the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club's collection of birds with nests and eggs mounted to show their life history has been removed from the ornithological gallery and arranged here to much better advantage.
A local collection of reptiles and mollusks has been presented by Messrs. Brown and Stone while a series of the local lepidoptera is being prepared for presentation by Dr. Henry Skinner so that there will soon be an exhibit of the natural history of Pennsylvania and New Jersey much more complete than has heretofore been displayed and which will constitute a representative State Museum.
Among other work accomplished duiing the year may be mentioned the rearrangement of the mammalian osteological collection many of the disarticulated skeletons being placed in drawers where they are more available forstudy.
The large amount of unclassified palreontoJogical material stored in drawers on the main floor has also been reexamined roughly classified and labeled thus greatly facilitating the final disposition of the material.
In cataloguing the museum important progress has been made especially in the department of birds where 5907 specimens have been carefully examined identified and catalogued the types and duplicates unnecessary for display being removed from the stands and placed in cabinets those desirable for exhibition being remounted.
In this work the Curators have followed the practice adopted in all other large museums and endorsed by letters from the leading ornithologists of the world.
A more detailed account of the work of the ornithological department will be found in the report of the Section.
The collection of reptiles and batrachians numbering 3939 jars has also been carefully examined during the year the jars numbered and a rough catalogue prepared.
The entries however have not yet been copied into the regular catalogue pending a revision of the identifications.
In the mineralogical department through the valuable assistance of Mr. J. E. Richardson the entire collection of over 8000 specimens has been permanently numbered with painted figures and a considerable portion catalogued.
The importance of this work cannot lie overestimated as it will when completed preclude all possibility of loss of data by the misplacing of specimens.
The department of invertebrate palaeontology has profited by the liberality of the Rev.
Dr. L. T. Chamberlain who has provided a handsome mahogany case for the display of the Isaac Lea collection and has sent an expedition to the fossilbearing beds of the Southern States.
A rich collection numbering over 500 species has been secured and is now being unpacked and classified.
Dr. Chamberlain has also generously provided cases for the valuable slabs of fossil foot prints presented by Isaac Lea.
During the year Dr. Chamberlain was appointed special conservator of the eocene fossils.
The remainder of the Pennsylvania State Geological Survey collection is also being unpacked and arranged so that all the material will soon be available for study.
During the latter part of last year Dr. Benj.
Sharp in conjunction with Prof Wm.
Libby Jr. conducted an important expedition to the Hawaiian Islands.
As he returned too late to prepare his collections for presentation in time for the last annual report no mention of them was made at that time.
During the past year these collections have been arranged in the museum where they form a valuable addition comprising many archiBological specimens of interest as well as a fine series of volcanic rocks and lavas and a series of dried plants.
The Academy's taxidermist Mr. D. N. McCaddeu besides spending much time during the year in remounting the birds has prepared a large number of new specimens mainly received in the flesh from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia.
These have been mounted for the museum or converted into skins or skeletons as the circumstances warranted.
The accessions during the year have been of great importance.
Besides the gifts already mentioned the Martindale collection of lepidoptera comprising appoximately 16000 specimens was purchased by the Academy with the assistance of a number of generous contributors and this together with the Peale and other collections already in its possession places the Academy in the front rank in this department.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continually added to his collection of Indian mound relics and has had collectors at work in Ohio and Florida during the year.
The Zoological Society of Philadelphia presented numerous valuable specimens of mammals and birds while the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has added numerous groups to the special collection of local birds and nests.
An important collection of post pliocene fossils has been obtained by Dr. S. G. Dixon and Mr. H. C. Mercer from a fissure in the limestone rocks at Port Kennedy Pa. where they have made excavations and collected a large amount of valuable data.
So far specimens of Megalonyx Mastodon Tapir Peccary Deer etc. have been obtained full accounts of which will be published in the near future.
The museum during the year has furnished aid to many specialists who have been offered every facility within the power of the Curators while the interest of the general public in the exhibits would appear to be greatly stimulated.
This is largely due to the custom inaugurated during the past year of placing new and attractive specimens in a prominent place on the main floor of the museum for some days before putting them in their final positions as well as to many popular articles which have appeared in our daily papers.
Specimens have been loaned during the year to Mr. T. Wayland Vaughan Dr. AVm.
H. Dall Austin C. Apgar B. W. Evermanu Prof Jas.
Hall Messrs. F. W. True F. M. Chapman C. W. Richmond and Dr. Geo.
Bauer.
The departments of botany and entomology have been under the care of the special conservators Mr. John H. Redfield and Dr. Henry Skinner respectively to whom the Curators are indebted for their valuable aid.
Acknowledgment is also due to Mr. W. W. Jefferis Curator of the Vaux Collections and Messrs. Shultz Boyer and Woolmau who have done valuable work in classifying and labeling the collection of diatoms.
The unusual progress thus recorded is largely owing to the earnestness and fidelity manifested by the assistants Messrs. Witmer Stone and Samuel N. Rhoads Mr. D. N. McCaddeu taxidermist and the Jessup Fund students Messrs. J. E. Richardson Howard Y. Pennell and Henry W. Fowler.
Samuel G. Dixon Curatorincharge.
REPORT OF BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
During the year nine regular meetings of the Section have been held at which communications were made and microscopic slides exhibited.
Among the communications of special interest were those of Dr. B.
Sharp on his expedition to Hawaii and on the fertilization of plants  those of Dr. Geo.
A. Rex on bacteria in the Myxomycetes  of Mr. Amos P. Brown on hairs on Mentzelia and Mr. Boyer's description of a new form of diatom named by him Rhahdonema Woolmanii.
At the joint meetings with the Academy the Section has always been represented by its members and important communications have been made as follows  John A Ryder preparation of nervous tissue formation of brain convolutions Geo.
A. Rex M. D.  Plasmodium of Myxomycetes Diachcea Thomasii  Benjamin Sharj PhD. curious growth on a treeroot from San Salvador fertilization of plants in Hawaii C. S. Boyer on cyclosis  Lewis Woolman remarks on diatoms S. G. Dixon M. D.  protection from tuberculosis D. S. Holman remarks on Myxomycetes S. Trenner exhibition of centrifugal machine M. V. Ball M. D.  remarks on tetanus and the antitoxin crystals formed by bacteria skulls of criminals.
The donations to the collection have been few  One slide of barking sand by Dr. Rex and ten slides of histologic subjects by Mr. Leedora Sharp.
Five new names have been added to the list of members and contributors.
One death has been announced and two members have resigned leaving the number of members and contributors sixtyfour.
The average attendance at the regular meetings was eight.
The Treasurer's report shows a balance of 239.39 in the treasury.
Dr. Geo.
A. Rex the Conservator of the Section reports as follows  The property of the Section is in good condition.
The microscopes and accessory apparatus are in working order and have been freely and frequently used at the stated meeting of the Section.
No addition has been made to the apparatus during the year.
The slide collection is also in good order but it is to be regretted that but few additions have been made since the last report.
Some inconvenience results from the crowded condition of our cabinet especially in the space devoted to the large binoculars and the Leidy stands but it is hoped that this will be remedied when space in the new building is available.
The following gentlemen were elected to fill the various offices for the ensuing year  Director ..... Benjamin Sharp M. D. ViceDirector .... John C. Wilson.
Treasurer ..... Chas.
P. Perot.
Corresponding Secretary .
.
John G. Rothermel.
Conservator .... Geo.
A. Rex M. D. Recorder M. V. Ball M.D.
Respectfully submitted.
M. V. Ball Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
During the year 1894 specimens of mollusca have been received from 45 persons and a large number of species new to the collection have been added to the museum as well as a few new to science.
As usual a great many specimens illustrating geographic distribution and variation have increased the study series and as the growth of this series which is arranged in drawers under the exhibition cases exceeds the growth of the exhibition series we are again in urgent need of space for its proper disposal.
The principal accessions during the year have been several sendings from Dr. J. C. Cox of shells from Australia and Tasmania a large series of marine shells of Japan which we have been allowed to select from the collection of Mr. Frederick Stearns a series of Japanese land mollusks in alcohol and a very valuable collection of shells from the Liukiu Is.
 also due to the liberality of Mr. Stearns.
A considerable number of South Australian land shells and chitons we owe to Mr. W. T. Bednall.
Finally the Conservator with the cooperation of Mr. C. W. Johnson was enabled to collect very extensive series of the mollusks of the middle St. Johns River Florida.
Many thousand specimens were collected from numerous localities and the material amassed will prove of great importance in the study of the variable and illdefined species of Floridian Unionidse.
An especial object of the journey was to procure certain peculiar local races of Vivipara  and a number of varieties new to science were found including one of the most divergent forms of the genus yet discovered in any country which adds an entirely new phase to the series of variations known in the family Viviparidse.
The success of these researches is attributable to the excellent facilities placed at our disposal by Mr. Clarence B. Moore.
Accessions to our series of American shells have been received from Messrs. A. G. Wetherby E. G. Vanatta Morris Schiek H. F. Stupakoif H. E. Sargent C. W. Johnson O.
A. Ny lander S. N. Rhoads W. J. Raymond and numerous others whose names appear in the list of accessions to the museum.
A collection of New Jersey shells has been made and presented by Messrs. Witmer Stone S. and F. H Brown.
It is now arranged in the Pennsylvania and New Jersey department of the museum.
From Prof. H. W. Gwatkin of Cambridge England we have received a large number of mounted radulae of mollusks in exchange for material for mounting.
Mr. H. Suter and Prof F. W. Hutton of New Zealand and Mr. C. Hedley of Sydney New South Wales have continued during the year to send us new and rare forms of antipodal mollusks.'
A series of Sandwich Island forms collected by Dr. B.
Sharp has added seveil rare or new species.
Except in the proper placing of new material in the cases and the determination of new and old material but little work has been done in the museum during the year this has been owing partly to the pressure of other work but mainly to the fact that little can be done advantageously until more space is allotted to the Conchological department.
It is believed that this will be accomplished during the coming year.
Respectfully submitted H. A. PiLSBRY Conservator.
REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
The regular monthly meetings have been held during the year except in July and August.
The average attendance of members at meetings has been ten persous.
Interesting verbal communications on entomological subjects have been made by nearly all the members and associates.
The publication known as the Entomological News and Proceedings of the Entomological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has been continued and 1894.
475 volume five completed with three hundred and forty pages and ten plates.
One new memher has been elected and one associate.
At a meeting held Dec. 10 1894 the following were elected to serve as officers for the coming year  Director ViceDirector Recorder Treasurer Conservator Pu hi.
Committee  Geo.
H. Horn M.D.
Chas.
S. Welles.
Henry Skinner M.D.
Ezra T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner M.D.
j James H. Ridings  Chas.
W. Johnson.
Henry Skinner Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The Botanical Section respectfully reports that it is in a prosperous condition has held regular monthly meetings at which valuable communications have been presented and discussed and that it is wholly free from debt.
The herbarium owing to the assiduous labors of the Conservator Mr. John H. Redfield is in a highly prosperous condition containing about 33000 species of flowering plants and ferns of which 452 new to the herbarium were added last year.
The herbarium is hampered by want of room all of which is set forth in detail in the Conservator's annual statement which is appended as part of this report.
The officers elected for the ensuing year are   Director ..... Thomas Meehan.
ViceDirector Recorder Cor.
Sec'y and Treasurer Conservator Charles E. Smith.
Charles Schiiffer M.D.
Stewardson Brown J. H. Redfield.
Respectfully submitted Thomas Meehan ViceDirector.
The Conservator of the Botanical Section reports as follows  This is the nineteenth year since a change of the ByLaws of the Academy placed the care of its herbarium with the Conservator chosen by the newly formed Botanical Section instead of with a committee chosen by the Academy as formerly.
Certainly the continued and rapid giowth of the collection and the improvement of its condition during that period have not been excelled in any portion of the Academy's earlier history.
Those who remember the narrow dark and cramped accommodations afforded the botanical collections in the old Broad Street building and the unwieldly portfolios in which they were arranged under the old Linnjean system can now congratulate the working botanists upon the improvement in the accessibility and usefulness of the herbarium which resulted from the change of quarters and from more modern methods of arrangement.
At the time of that removal the estimates of the extent of the collection were vague and exaggerated.
The careful and conservative enumeration which has since been made of the flowering plants and ferns places the number of species at the present time at over 33000.
If we add to these the cryptogamic collections which have not been so carefully enumerated the total would probably approach 40000 species.
Nearly onehalf of these have been received since we have been in the present quarters.
But the number of new species received gives a very inadequate idea of the growth a large part of which consists of additions of species previously represented but now in fuller suites from new and wider localities and in better condition.
The collections removed from the old building were all in loose sheets or speciescovers and had consequently suffered much in handling from the brittleness of age  and many of the subsequent additions were necessarily placed in the same way.
But soon after the removal it was determined that it was allimportant that the whole should be properly and permanently affixed to sheets with collector's tickets securely preserved.
The task was a great one with the little help at command but it has been steadily pursued during the time not required for the care of new accessions.
The separate North American collection is all thus mounted and about onefourth of the larger general herbarium.
The number of plants received during the past year reaches 2119 species of which 204 belong to the lower cryptogams and 1915 are phanerogams and ferns.
Of the latter 489 are N. American species 311 Tropical American 191 European 684 Asiatic 150 African and 90 Australian and Polynesian.
452 of these are new to our collection and 30 of thera represent new genera.
It is hoped that the additional space soon to be at command of theAcademy will enable the Curators to provide some means for the expansion of the botanical collections.
When we took possession of the present cases large room was left for growth but nineteen years have crowded the shelves to the point of injury to the contents.
If the present shelf room were doubled there would still be very moderate space for that future increase of the herbarium which may be reasonably expected.
The present cases though so much in advance of previous accommodation do not afford adequate protection from dust and should be fitted with dusttight doors and all new cases should be of the best dustproof construction.
Respectfully submitted John H. Redfield Conservator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
Meetings of the Section have been held regularly during the year except during the summer months.
The attendance has not been large but this has been due in great part to illness and absence from the city of several active members.
There has been no lack of interest.
The additions to the museum have been satisfactory.
It is hoped that in the new building space and cases may be provided for a display of the minerals and rocks of the vicinity of our city for it is believed that the present small and poor local collection could easily be increased so as to be a most valuable and interesting feature of the museum.
The following officers have been elected for the ensuing year  Director ..... Theodore D. Rand.
ViceDirector Conservator Treasurer Correspondhui Secretary Recorder W. W. Jefferis.
W. W. Jefferis.
John Ford.
Chas.
Schiiffer M.D.
Chas.
Schiiffer M.D.
Respectfully submitted TiiEO.
D. Rand Director.
REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Section is pleased to report that the Ornithological Department of the Museum is in excellent condition as regards the preservation of the specimens and to note important progress in the work of renovating the collection on the plans outlined in a previous report.
The question having arisen as to the policy of remounting the type specimens and duplicates unnecessary for display as has been the custom during the past two years the Conservator consulted several of the leading ornithologists of the world and obtained their unqualified endorsement of the plans for the renovation of the collection recommended by the Section and adopted by the Curators.
In view of the endorsement of R. Bowdler Sharpe Robert Ridgway and other high authorities we feel fully justified in the course we have pursued and are convinced that the proper preservation of our collection of birds is absolutely dependent upon the continuance of the treatment that we have already outlined.
Owing to the miscellaneous duties of the Conservator in his position as Assistant to the Board of Curators his work on the ornithological collection was mainly resti'icted to the summer months.
At this time also the Academy's taxidermist Mr. David N. McCadden was enabled to devote his entire time to this department and with the further valuable assistance of Messrs. Howard Y. Pennell and Henry W. Fowler it was possible to make greater progress with the work of renovation than in any previous year.
In all 5907 mounted specimens were examined catalogued and labelled and then remounted or reduced to skins as the circumstances warranted.
These included the Cicouiidte Gruidse Limicolse Gallinie Colurabse Dendrocolaptidoe Formicariidse Paridee Bucerotidte and part of the Fringillidse.
In addition specimens of the Corvidse Paradisteidse Icteridie and Tanagridie which had previously been catalogued were remounted for exhibition.
Several temporary lists were also copied into the regular catalogue duiing the year aggregating 7029 entries while all the accessions have been labelled and placed in the proper places.
The entire study series of American birds has been carefully examined and found to be in excellent condition.
The principal accessions during the year have been small collections from Lower California California and Florida received in exchange or by purchase and also numerous specimens from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia among which may be mentioned specimens of Struthio molyhdophanes and Dromius irroratus.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has added many attractive groups to the collection of Pennsylvania and New Jersey birds which is rapidly approaching completion.
At the annual meeting of the Section held December 17 1894 the following officers were elected  Director .
. '
.
ViceDirector Recorder Secretary Treasurer and Coiiservator Dr. Spencer Trotter.
Geo.
S. Morris.
Stewardson Brown.
Chas.
E. Ridenour.
Witmer Stone.
Respectfully submitted Wither Stone Conservator.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports that as heretofore he has delivered his regular spring courses of lectures twentyfive in number the attendance at w'hich has been larger than in any previous year.
These lectures embracing in great part the physiographic features of the region about Philadelphia were supplemented by weekly field parties and by two special summer class excursions one to the region of the Shawangunk and Delaware Mountains the other to the Bermuda Islands.
On the first of these excursions the methods of topographical surveying were practically demonstrated in addition to the regular work in geology and paleontology.
Two new fossilbearing localities in the Trias were discovered in the course of the spring excursions.
The collections in the department of Invertebrate Paleontology have not been materially augmented during the year nor has their condition been very greatly changed.
Much has been done toward determining and redetermining unidentified or doubtful forms and from many specimens hitherto unofficially labelled  i.e. not named hv the author of the species in question  the labels have been removed.
In a few cases too the authors' labels were found to be incorrect or at least so doubtful as to necessitate the affixing ot an interrogation mark to the identification.
The general changes that had been made on the floor of the museum broke into the continuity of the arrangement that formerly existed and necessitated a considerable reversal in the disposition of the series.
An almost full readjustment has been made for the time being but it cannot be said to meet the actual requirements of the collection.
Very nearly double the caseroom that the collection now occupies is needed for a proper display of and to meet additions to the American fossils alone and the European collection which is very disadvantageously stored away in drawers would occupy about as much space as the American collection occupies at the present time.
It is hoped that with the occupation of the Academy's new building the proper relief will be afforded this department.
The additions to the collection during the year are included in the list of accessions to the museum.
Respectfully submitted Angelo Heilprin Prof of Invertebrate Paleontology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND ARCHEOLOGY.
I have to report that in the early months of the year I delivered a course of lectures on general archaeology.
They were six in number and were free to the public.
The attendance was unusually large and a general interest was manifested in the subject.
The collections in this department have been increased by valuable accessions which will be specified in the reports of the Curators.
The whole collection is now in process of rearrangement in a favorable location in the new building.
D. G. Brinton M.D. Professor of Ethnology and ArchBology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF LOWER INVERTEBRATA.
The Professor of Lower Invertebrata respectfully reports that during the past year he has delivered lectures on the results of the Hawaiian Expedition.
The additions to the museum during the year have been neither numerous nor important.
Work has been carried on in the carcinological department in relabelling and rearranging specimens.
AVith the help of Dr. A. Ortmann the Porcellanidse have been correctly determined and relabelled.
A course of lectures ten in number is planned to be delivered wmetime during the spring on general zoology.
Respectfully submitted Benj.
Sharp Professor of Loiver Invertebrata.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF HISTOLOGY AND MICROSCOPIC TECHNOLOGY.
The Professor of Histology and Microscopic Technology respectfully reports that he has conducted less than the usual work in the bacteriological laboratory than in past years owing to the fact that the greater part of his time has been devoted to his duties as Executive Curator.
Some satisfactory work however has been accomplished in bacteriological examinations of drinking waters in the State of Pennsylvania and in continued investigations upon the various lines heretofore suggested for the prevention and cure of tuberculosis and other germ diseases.
Original investigations made during the winter on the relationship between Tuberculosis and Nitrogenous Metabolism have been communicated to the Academy and published in the Therapeutic Gazette for December 15 1894.
Microscopic examinations have been made of the viscera of animals which have died at the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens.
The bacteriological laboratory has been freely used by members of the Academy who desired the privilege while the society has not 32 been called upon directly or indirectly to defray the expenses incurred for equipment or maintenance.
Instruction has been given in the use of the microscope but no work has been done in histology.
Samuel G. Dixon Proj.
of Histology and Microscopic Technology.
REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WM.
S. VAUX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the Wm.
S. Vaux Collections respectfully reports that the cabinets have been in good condition during the past year.
They have however been inspected by but few persons owing to the unfavorable situation of the rooms in which they were arranged.
No additions have been made in the archceological section since the donor's death.
At the present time it is being iemoved into the new building where it will attract attention in connection with the collection of Mr. Clarence B. Moore and others belonging to the Academy.
Since the last report 158 specimens have been added to the collection of minerals several being new species.
Their removal into the new building has been completed without loss or injury to any of the specimens.
The cabinet has been placed in good order.
It has been arranged on the first floor of the new building where in consequence of the abundance of light it can be exhibited to advantage.
Respectfully submitted Wm.
W. Jefferis Curator.
1894.
483 The election of Officers Councillors and Members of the Finance Committee to serve during 1895 was held with the following result President VicePresidents Recording Secretary Corresponding Secretary Treasurer Librarian Curators Councillors to serve three years.
Finance Committee General Isaac J. Wistar.
Thomas Meehau.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook D.D.
Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Benjamin Sharp M.D.
George Vaux Jr. Edward J. Nolan M.D.
W. S. W. Ruschenberger M.D.
Henry C. Chapman M.D.
Samuel G. Dixon M. D. Arthur Erwin Brown.
Charles P. Perot.
Dr. C. Newlin Peirc'e.
Theodore D. Rand.
George H. Horn M.D.
Charles Morris.
Charles E. Smith.
Uselma C. Smith.
William Sellers.
Charles P. Perot.
