DESCRIPTIONS OF FOUR NEW SPECIES AND TWO SUBSPECIES OF WHITE-FOOTED MICE FROM THE UNITED STATES AND BRITISH COLUMBIA.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
The North American genus SUomijt<, comprising the white-footed or deer mice, has received accessions in the last ten years which bring the combined number of species and subspecies from twelve, in 1885, to thirty-seven in 1884.
It may appear presumptive to offer for consideration six additional names to this already rather appalling list of rodents belonging to a single genus.
It is somewhat assuring, however, to read the statement of Dr. J.
A. Allen,' in his paper on Recent Progress in the Study of North American Mammals, that most of these forms are not only "well founded," but that he is "cognizant of still undescribed forms entitled to recognition in nomenclature.'
' It may be stated, that in every case the following diagnoses are based on a critical comparison of both external and cranial characters with a large series of allied forms from the same region, and in the case of full species the separation has been mainly founded on the characters of the skull.
Sitomys megacephalus is represented by a single adult and two young specimens in alcohol from northern Alabama, While it is desirable that more specimens should be examined, its characters diverge so widely from its nearest geographic allies, I can offer no apology for presenting it now.
Sifomijs insolafus is based on a single individual from the Mohave Desert, California, while a second specimen from the Mohave River in transitional pelage is provisionally referred to it.
The collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences contain a large series of Sitomijs from the neighboring regions of Southern California, and the same is undoubtedly the case with the collections of the Department of Agriculture; yet I find in insolatus no close correspondence to any other mouse I have yet seen or read description of 1 Proc.
Liun.
Soc, N. Y., 1894.
Sitoiiijis Iirrroiii iiiijilliis is an easily recognized mountain race of the long-andnaked tailed species, which I described a year ago from the San Bernardino Valle}'.
<S7fo;»//>' inacrorJiuiHS and tS'tfoim/s krenii were severally taken on the mainland coast and outlying islands of northern British Columbia, by the Rev.
Mr.
Keen, a missionary stationed on Graham Island of the Queen Charlotte Group.
Their separation from each other, and from northwestern forms previously known, is based on an examination of more than one hundred skins and crania of Sitomijs taken by me in 1(S!
)2 at numerous localities in British Columbia and Washington, including a large series from Puget Sound at the type locality of S. a. ansterus; also from Vancouver Island, Lulu Island, and the Cascade Mountains of Washington and British Columbia.
Sitoiinis ainerlcanns artcmisUe is founded on a series similarly taken by the writer in the arid region east of the C'ascade Mountains in southern British Cohnnbia, comparisons being further made with series of *SVto»(//,s from Lac La Hache in the boreal realms, 100 miles farther north, and with those captured in the Selkirk and Rocky Mountain Ranges, eastwajd.
Aiicmwn: is to the northern Great Basin fauna what S. a.
)H'l)nisri'iisls is to that of the northwestern Great Plains.
The color characters given for these northwestern species are of greater diagnostic value, because nearly all the specimens were taken in May, June, and July, a period when seasonal changes of pelage are less pronounced than in a later or earlier period of the same duration.
Incidental to these studies, it is of interest to note the occurrence of a form, apparently inseparable from the Hudson Bay type of Sitomi/s aiiieric(uni.-< ardlcKs, upon the higher mountain ranges of southern British Columbia, thus adding a lifth mendoer of the genus to the varied fauna of this great Province.
1.
Sitomys megacephalus sp.
iiov.
Type, ad.
9.
^"■^•535, Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sd., I'hiia.
Wdudville, Alabama; Sprinj;, 1804.
Col. by H. E. .Sargont.
De-fcriptioii.
— Size large; feet small; ears large; tail about length of body without the head.
Color above, dark blackish-cinnamon, lined with gray, darkest on back, brownest on sides.
Lower surfaces dirty white, the hairs plumbeous basally.
The tail is sparsely haired, and colored above and beneath to match the body.
Inside of hams phnnbeous.
Hind feet white from heel; forefeet and forearm white.
The cinuamon of ueck forms a point, downwards, invading the throat.
Ears dusky and very sparsely haired.
Whiskers long and coarse, reaching far behind the recumbent ears.
Skull very large; its relative dimensions as in S. americanns with two notable exceptions, viz : 1, the alveolar length of molars is less than that of average aiiicricamts, though the skull of niegacephalus is more than a third larger; 2, the coronoid pi-ocess, always developed in amer lean us (and in all other Sitovit/s I have seen), as a reflexed, claw-like process, whose posterior face is iivirr perpendicular, is reduced in me(/<Mrphalns to a thickened knob rounded posteriorly and rising but slightly above the plane of the condylar shaft, and presenting a strong resemblance to the articular terminus of the condyle ; in other words, having not only the appearance but the character of a miniature condyle set upon the base of the true one.
Meamirrinents.
— Total length, 184 mm; tail vertebra?, 81; hind foot, 21-5 ; ear from crown, 14.
Skull — Total length, 30-2 ; basilar length, 2o ; zygomatic width, 15-5; length of nasals, 12; incisors to postpalatal notch, 12; length of mandible, 16-3; greatest width of mandible, 7-6.
I have selected from a series of forty P^'lorida S. a.
(/o.<'<ijpi)ii(.
'< and a series of nearly two hundred typical S. (nnerica)ui.<, eight of the lai'gest fully adult crania of each form.
Average measui-ements of these, in the order just given above for the skull of megaccphalus, are as follows : — Sltomijs americanns: 25-9— 1!» -9— 13-4— 10-— 10-5— -13-7 — H-1.
S. «.
rjo.-i.vipinus : 27-3— 20-5— 13-9— 10 -610 -5—14 -1— (r 4.
It will l)e seen that the Alabama S})ecies has a skull nearly five millimeters longer than average adult americanus.
It is furthermore about four millimeters longer than the longest skull of a series of three hundred of the aincrminit.-' group which I have examined.
Compared with f/ossi/jnuas, whose average, it will be seen, somewhat exceeds typical ainericainis, the differences are still very great.
The ty])e is a very old female, which was sent, in company with two young (apparently her own), among a miscellaneous collection of alcoholic animals from Jackson County, northern Alabama.
They were the only specimens of Sitoiniis sent by INIr.
Sargent, and owing to his sulisecfuent absence from the State, I have been unable to secure any more specimens, to determine if this be the prevailing form in that region.
I have since received a large white-footed mouse from Pasco ('oiinty, Florida, whose characters so nearly duplicate those of the Alabama specimen, I am inclined, in spite of its different faunal position, to consider it the same.
The colors ^iven for ine(/acrphalus may l)e relied upon, though taken from a spirit specimen after drying.
The good condition of the alcohol and the whiteness of the belly hairs show them not to have been affected in the least by their recent immersion.
In the two half-grown young, accompanying the type, the same increased relative size of the cranium, compared with americanus of same age, is noticeable.
2.
Sitomys insolatus sp.
uov.
Type, No.
.3,495, ad.
^,('oll.
Acart.
Nat.
Sci.. Phila.
Oro Grande, Mohave Desert, Keru Co., California, Nov. 9th.
1893.
Col. by R. B. Herron.
Description.
— Size smallest of the genus west of the Mississippi River, with exception of S. taylorl.
Tail and feet very short, the former shorter than the body minus the head, much attenuated along distal half, the dark upper stripe very narrow and not reaching tip.
Pelage very soft, long, and dense.
Upper half of head and body of a uniform grayishochre or fawn color, not darker dorsally nor more ochraceous on sides.
Uuder parts }Hii-e white, the hairs of chops white to their base, those of remaining under parts i)lumbeous basal ly.
A lanuginous tuft at superior base of ear colored like the head, remainder of outer ear dusky gray, the hairs longest on anterior border, very short and sparse posteriorly.
Narrow, upper tail-stripe dusky, like ears its color at base in decided contrast with the fawn of rump.
Hind feet and ankles white, the soles fully haired to proximal tubercle.
Forelegs and feet white.
Whiskers reaching tip of recumbent ears.
Skull smaller than in ainericanus, more nearly approaching ereiiilcits, but relatively wider.
Nasals wide, anterior to, and bluntly wedged between, the nasal premaxillary processes, as in eremicus.
The width of the mandible of Insolatus equals nearly half its length, and the coronoid process is relatively nearly as large and hooked as in Oin/cho)nys nonoiia, in the first character resembling eremicus, and in both departing radically from aiiin-lnoiux.
The anterior loop of the first upper molar is a strongly indented trefoil, the inner foil being twice as large as the middle one, which, in turn, is twice as large as the outer foil.
Measuremetits.
— Total length, 15<'S ram; tail vertebrie, 76; hind foot, 19-5; ear from crown, 12.
Skull — Total length, 24-8; basilar length, 18-8; zygomatic width, 13; length of nasals, 9-8; incisors to postpalatal notch, 9-8; length of mandible, 12-8; greatest width of mandible, (5.
This mouse, of which I have received but one specimen among a considerable sei'ies of manmials from the same region, is strikingly different from any Sitomi/.
'^ that I have seen or can find description of It is not merely a desert form of some group already known, but if more specimens prove its characters, as given above, to be constant, it represents a section intermediate in character between Oiu/cJiomiis and SItomi/g.
Its relationships, however, are much closer to Sitomys.
In its six tuberculate hind feet, the elongate lower molar, the prominent coronoid process, and proportionate length of tail to body, insolatus is a B(iioiii;is,''\mt the trefoil character of its first upper molar is in another direction.
The subgenus Baiomys, separated from Sttomijs almost solely on its welldeveloped coronoid and short tail, is of very questionable value, as many ^Sitomijs show a tendency to the first character which have very long tails while other short-tailed species show the reverse.
In fact a large series of Sitomys amerlcanus from Pennsylvania and New Jersey, which I have studied, show individual variations in these characters among themselves, which suffice to very closely connect Baiomys with the typical form.
In case further material should show the dental peculiarity of insolatus to be constant, I would propose that it be placed in the subgenus Trinodoidonys (Subgen.
nov.) with characters as already given.
3.
Sitomys herroni nigellus subsp.
nov.
Type.
No.
3,496, ad.
J* , Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.. Phila.
West ("ajon Pass, San Bernardino Mts., California, Jan. 11th, 1894.
Col. by E. B. Herron.
Description.
— General characters as in Sitomys herroni,^ the buffygray of that species being deeply lined and shaded in the subspecies by a predominance of long black hairs, the blackish shade being most pronounced across the posterior half of body.
The pelage is longer, denser, and more harsh than in herroni, the tail and ears much darker, the buft' of sides and cheeks of herroni becoming in nigellus deep fawn and the bufiy cast of belly purer white.
Skull as in herroni.
True, Proc.
Nat.
Mas.
XVI, 7.57.
3 Ehoads, Amer.
Nat., 1893, 832.
18 Measurements.
— Total length, 197mm,; tail vertebne, 114; bind foot, 22.
Skull — Total length, 26*2; basilar length, 19; zygomatic width, 12-7; length of nasals, 9*2; incisors to post-palatal notch, 10; length of mandible 13-1; greatest width of mandible, 6-1.
Four specimens of this race were taken on the foothills of the San Bernardino Range at the entrance to Cajon Pass connecting the San Bernardino Valley with the Mohave Desert.
They represent the dark mountain form of herro)d, the latter being typical of the lowlands.
The four specimens are remarkably uniform in all the characters given.
4.
Sitomys keeni sp.
nov.
Type, No.
768, ad.
J, Coll.
S. N. Eboads.
Masset, Queen C'luirlotte Is., B. V., 1892.
Col. by Eev.
J. H. Keen.
Description.
— Size larger than S. americanus austents, ears smaller, feet much larger, tail more than the length of head and body.
Colors above, uniform grizzled blackishbrown lacking the darker dorsal area so prominent in austeriis.
Feet and lower parts ashy-white, abruptly defined against dark upper colors.
Ears, upper half of tail, and ring around eyes, sooty black.
Fur dense and short, this character and the colors of upper parts giving it an Arvicoline cast.
Skull large for size of body.
Brain case relatively very large, deep, and rounded, inflated behind above plane of the orbits as the skull rests on a horizontal surface, so there is a decided descent from a point just anterior to the parietals toward the nasal bones, and a depression at the interorbital constriction.
In all.
other forms examined this horizontal elevation of the parietals is not greater than that of the frontals between the orbits, and is often less.
The nasals are short, doublepointed, and broadly wedged posteriorly and not reaching behind the naso-preniaxillary processes.
The anterior zygomatic width is much narrower than the squamosal, and the antorbital foramina are thereby much contracted, giving the skull a more tapering, triangular contour than in allied forms.
The ratio of squamosal-zygomatic breadth to total length in keeni, expressed in millimeters, is 14 "3 to 26*3, in austerus 12-5 to 25.
In keeni the greatest parietal breadth is 12-5, in austerus 11.
Measurements.
(From spii'it specimen.)
— Total length, 170 mm; tail vertebrre, 88; hind foot, 24; ear, from crown, 10*5.
Skull — Total length, 26 -3; basilar length, 20 '5; zygomatic width, 14-3; length of nasals 10-2; incisors to post-palatal notch, 11-3; length of mandible, 14; greatest width of mandible, 6*3.
Five specimens of this mouse, two adult and three somewhat immature, were received by me through courtesy of Mr. James Fletcher, of the Canadian Experimental Farm, at Ottawa.
Mr. Fletcher received them from Mr.
Keen, who resides on the Queen Charlotte Islands.
I take pleasure in naming the animal after its discoverer, and trust it may be some incentive to more extended researches in this interesting and imperfectly known department of northwest zoology.
The specimens were sent in carbolized spirits.
The purity of the white after drying them out, shows their colors not to have altered, and indicates that a series of well-preserved skins would show keeni to be the darkest colored Sitomijs yet brought to notice, a condition of affairs which our knowledge of their humid, insular environment would lead us to expect.
5.
Sitomys macrorhinus sp.
nov.
Type, No.
1,381, ad.
9, Coll.
S. N. Rhoads.
Skueiiii Kiver, British Coltiiubia, July 20th, 1893.
Col. by Eev.
J. H. Keen Description.
— Size much larger than S. americanus.
Tail considerably longer than head and body, feet large, ears medium.
Colors much as in keeni (1. c. ), but grayer and lighter hued above, without the sooty cast of Iceeni.
The tail is more coarsely hairy and the hairs longer than in keeni, forming a distinct pencil not seen in that species.
Skull, viewed above, of the same triangular type as keeni, due to its antorbital constriction, but departing widely from any other Sitomi/s I have examined, in the great relative length of the rostrum (or that portion of the skull anterior to the interorbital constriction ) to the total length of the skull.
In all others examined this dimension is less than that of the post interorbital region, taking for the central point of measurement the narrowest constriction point of the froutals.
In macrorhinus this condition is reversed.
The relative length of the nasal bones in this species is not great, but the slenderness of the rostrum and the anterior compression of the jugal arch increases their apparent length and the relative prominence of this portion of the cranium.
These differences, coupled with the large size of the skull, strongly define macrorhinus from any of its geographic allies.
Measurements.
— Total length, 210 mm; tail vertebrae, 112; hind foot, 25; ear from crown, 15; tail pencil, 6.
Skull — Total length, 29; basilar length, 22-4; zygomatic width, 14-5; length of nasals.
■ ll'O; incisor to post-palatal notch, 12-4; length of mandible, 14*5; greatest width of mandible, 6'8.
Two adult, nursing females of this species, were sent to Mr. Fletcher, of the Ottawa Experimental Farm, by Mr.
Keen, and were forwarded to me in spirits.
Their grayness, large size, and long tails serve to distinguish them externally from any other boreal or northwestern form I know of.
Eight specimens of Sitoiiujs, trapped at an elevation of 6,000 feet, on the Cascade Mountains of northern Washington, are, perhaps, referable to this species.
They depart therefrom in somewhat smaller size, but in all other respects are much nearer to it than to aiisterus, of Puget Sound.
The climatic conditions of the Cascades where these were taken, are, with the exception of a more rigorous winter, quite the same as those prevailing at Skeena Harbor, the type locality of viacrorhiuus.
6.
Sitomys americanus artemisiae sp.
nov.
Type, Xo.
368, ad.
^ , Coll.
S. N. Khoads.
Ashcroft, J5ritish ('oluoil)ia, June fith, 1802.
L'ol.
by S. N. R. Description.
— Size large, exceeding typical americanus.
Tail short, hardly equalling body without the head.
Ears medium and sparsely haired.
The hind feet are small and densely haired to the distal half.
Colors above, tawny ash, inclining to fulvous on sides and rump and darkening with an increase of blackish hairs along the back.
Upper third of tail sooty, the lower two-thirds white and tipped with a pronounced pencil.
Lower parts a soft, clear white, with basal half of belly hairs plumbeous.
3feasureinenfs.
— Total length, 170 mm ; tail vertebrio, 70 ; hind foot, 20 (average of 8 adults — Total, 164; tail, 68; foot, 20).
Skull — Total length, 26; basilar length, 20; zygomatic width, 102; length of nasals, 11*1; incisor to postpalatal notch, 11; length of mandible, 14; greatest width of mandible, 6.8.
The nearest ally of this subspecies is probably S. a. nebrascensis, as defined by Dr. Mearns,* from specimens taken at Calf Creek, INTontana, from which it differs in not having dark well-haired ears and in the absence of white patclies in front of ears.
With nebr(i.
'<censis it coincides in short tail, larger body, long full pelage, hairy sole, and light colors as contrasted with americanus of the east and austerus of the west.
The Ashcroft specimens represent the northern limit of a Great Basin form of americanus, whose habitat probably extends far * Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
N. H., Vol.
II, Art.
xx, 285.
• into the United States, at least to southern Idaho, western Washington, and Oregon.
Xebrascensi.s represents that of the western Plains.
It is probable that artemisife is included in the list of " Hesjyeromys lei(copi(y," given by Dr. Merriara in N. American Fauna, No.
5, from Idaho, which he states may "eventually merit separation into two or three subspecies."
Artemisice was taken in the open, semi-arid foothills and lower mountain slopes around Ashcroft, their burroAvs often being situated on a bare hillside, a mile or more from other shelter than that afforded by the scant growth of dwarf sage, which here nearly reaches its northernmost limit of existence.
Note ox Sitomys Americanos Arcticus.
The series of White-foote<^l Mice taken at Nelson, in the Selkirk Mountains, B. C. , and at Field, in the Rocky ^lountains, B. C. , at elevations of from 3,000 to 5,000 feet, fit so well Dr. Mearns' diagnosis (vid.
sup.
cit.
)of aS.
a. arcticus from the Hudson Bay Territory, I feel almost assured, without the type before me, that they are the same.
Those from Vernon, a locality intermediate in its faunal characters between those of Ashcroft and Field, are intergrades between artemisice, with its short tail and light fulvous colors, and arcticus, with longer tail and dark mouse-gray shades.
It is reasonable to expect that the vast boreal regions of interior N. America, bounded on the east by Hudson Bay, on the west by the Cascade Mountains, and south by the higher mountain ridges which invade the northern border of the United States, is tenanted by no other race or species of the S. amerlcauus type than arcticus.
DESCRIPTIONS OF EIGHT NEW POCKET MICE (GENUS PEROGNATHUS).
BY DR. C. HART MERRIAM.
Among the Pocket Mice belonging to the collection of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, now numbering upwards of 1,400 specimens, are several that have not been named.
Through the courtesy of the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, Dr. Chas.
W. Dabney, Jr., I am enabled to publish the accompanying descriptions and illustrations in advance of their publication by the Department.
Respecting the eight forms here proposed, it may be stated that P. baileyi is a type very different from any heretofore described.
It is a large animal with a peculiar skull, which suggests affinities with P. jmradoxiis on one hand, and with P. fonnosus on the other, though much nearer the latter than the former.
P. columbianus is a peculiar local form of the oUvaceas group.
P. nevadensis, panaviiiithius, and inexlcaiiiis are small forms with much swollen mastoids, belonging to the favus-Ioiif/hneiiibri^ group.
P. nehoni, stepheusi, and canesGens belong to the penicillatus group of the subgenus Chijetodipus.
Tlie large series of specimens from Mexico, in the Department collection, carry the range of the genus southward over Sonora in the west, and in the east over the states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, Tamaulipas, Durango, San Luis Potosi, Zacatecas, and the Valley of jNIexico.
Perognathus baileyi sp.
nov. (Fig.
1).
Type from Magdalena, Sonora, Mexico.
No.
}^-?ll, 9 , ad., U.
8.
Nat.
Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected November 3, 1889, by Vernon Bailey.
(Original number 633.)
ilfea*-M/r;»(^'>//.s(taken in flesh}.
— Type: Total length, 210 mm; tail vertebne, 122; hind foot, 27.
Ear from anterior base, 11 (in dry skin).
Average measurements of 8 specimens from type locality : Total length, 215; tail vertebrie, 120; hind foot, 27.
General characters.
— Size large ; tail long and moderately crested 1894.]
263 on distal half; pelage moderately coarse, but no spines on rump or elsewhere; ears large; tragus higher than broad ; hind foot very large; skull unlike any known species.
P. hailexji is a wide departure from the previously known members of the group.
Externally it resembles P. formosus, but its skull is of a different type, resembling that of paradoxus in size, height, solidity, and general form, but having the large audital and mastoid bullte of formosus.
Color.
— Upper parts drab-brown, abundantly lined with black hairs; under parts white; a pale lateral stripe; tail bicolor, pale dusky above, white beneath.
Fig.
1.
P. biiileyi.
Craninl eharacters.
—SknW large, heavy, and high, resembling paradoxus in general form and solidity, but with much larger mastoid and audital buUie, the latter nearly meeting anteriorly below basisphenoid ; interparietal squarely pentagonal, broadest anteriorly, ratio of length to breadth about 64.
Total length of skull of type specimen, 29-5; mastoid breadth, 15-5; basal length, 24; basilar length of hensel, 20-5; greatest zygomatic breadth (posteriorly), 15-5; length of nasals, 11-5.
Note.
— Specimens have been examined from Magdalena, Sonora, and from New River, Mammoth, and a point 75 miles S. W. of Tucson, in Arizona.
Perognathus columbianus sp.
no v. (Fig.
2).
Type from Pasco, Plains of Columbia, Washington (on east side of Columbia river, near mouth of Snake river).
No.
^''^^l, S , yg.
ad., U. S. Nat.
Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected May 9, 1891, by Clark P. Streator.
(Original number 768.)
Meaxnrements (taken in flesh).
— Type: Total length, 187 mm; tail vertebrre, 96; hind foot, 23.
Ear from anterior base, 9 (in dry skinj.
Average measurements of 11 specimens from type locality: Total length, 170; tail vertebne, 89-4; hind foot, 22.
General characters.
— Size large; coloration pale; tail long, tapering, rather scant haired; mastoid bulhe much swollen; pelage soft.
Color.
— Upper parts smoke gray, darkened oji the back by admix264 [1894. tare of dark tipped hairs and sometimes showing an olivaceous tinge ; under parts and feet white; lateral stripe faint; tail bicolor, white below, dark above, but pale on proximal half.
Some specimens have a pale fulvous band along the side of the tail between the dark upper side and the white under side.
Cranial characters.
— Skull large, and agreeing in the main with other members of the olivaceus group, but differing in the large size of the mastoid bullte, which are much more swollen than in any of the others.
The audital bulhe meet or nearly meet anteriorly below the basisphenoid.
The interparietal is strongly pentagonal and short transversely.
Fig.
2.
P. columbianiis, ^ .
Perognathus nevadensis sp.
nov. (Fig.
3).
Type from Halleck, East Humboldt Valley, Nevada.
No.
54,828, $ , ad., U. S. Nat.
Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected July 4, 1893, by Vernon Bailey.
(Original number 4,070.)
Measuremenis (taken in flesh).
— Type: Total length, 127 mm; tail vertebne, 72; hind foot, 19.
Ear from anterior base 7 (in dry skin).
Average measurements of 24 specimens from type locality: Total length, 133; tail vertebra, 72-4; hind foot, 18*7.
General characters.
— Size small; tail long; pelage silky; color grayish.
Similar to P. longiiiieinbi'u but with shorter tail, and color grayish instead of buffy ochraceous.
Color.
— Upper parts buffy gray, everywhere darkened by an abundant admixture of fine blacktipped hairs; a dull buffy-ochraceous lateral stripe which spreads out over the belly, leaving only the throat and pectoral region white; tail indistinctly bicolor, dark above (darkest near tip), buffy ochraceous below.
Cranial and dental characters.
— Skull small, mastoid bullte large; interparietal pentagonal.
Skull siniilar to that of P. longimembris but lower premolar decidedly larger than last molar, and m i larger than m yFig.
;i I", dcnsii^ lirvilPerognathus longimembris panamintinus siibsp.
nov. (Fig.
4).
Type from Perognathus Flat, Panamint Mts., Califoraia.
No.
■!9.HM' ^' yS^^-f ^^^^fMuseum, Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected April 16, 1891, by Vernon Bailey.
(Original number 2,675.)
Measi()rmenfs(ta.ken'm^es\\).— Tiipe: Total length, 152 mm; tail vertebrtt, 83 ; hind foot, 20.
Ear from anterior base 7 (in dry skin).
Average measurements of 29 specimens from type locality: Total length, 143; tail vertebra-, 78; hind foot, 19-8.
General characters.
— Size small ; pelage silky ; tail long, decidedly longer than head and body; skull long and slender, particularly the rostrum.
Compared with lonc/iwembrls the ground color of the upper parts is paler (pale buffy ochraceous instead of pale fulvous), but the upper parts as a whole are darker from the more liberal admixture of blacktipped hairs; the ears are smaller, the hind feet longer, the tail much longer and better haired; the pelage longer and more silky.
Color.
— Ground color of upper parts pale ochraceous-buff, everywhere (except on lower sides) obscured by black tipped hairs; under parts and feet white; tail incompletely bicolor : dull ochraceous below, dark above.
Sometimes the proximal half is concolored all around, the distal half only being dark above.
Oranial characters.
— Skull similar to that of longimembris in general characters, but much longer and more slender, particularly the rosti'al part.
Tiie pentagonal interparietal is broader transversely than in longimembris, and the audital bullse meet anteriorly in a symphysis.
Perognathus flavus mexicanus snbsp.
uov.
(Fig 5).
Type from Tlalpam, Valley of Mexico (Federal District.)
No.
50,714, yg.
ad., U. S. Nat.
Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected December 4, 1892, by E. W. Nelson.
(Original number 3,978.)
Measareiiumts (taken in Hesh).
— Type: Total length, 118 mm; tail vertebrae, 55; hind foot, 17-5.
Ear from anterior base 6 (in dry skin).
Average measurements of 12 specimens from type locality: Total length, 116; tail vertebrte, 53-7, hind foot, 17-4. .
4. r. iiauainintinns.
266 General large [1894. ; color Fig.
5.
P. moxi ciuns.
characters.
— Size small; raastoifl bulla?
fuliginous in winter pelage.
Color.
— Winter pelage : Upper parts fuliginous or dusky ; under parts and feet white ; a rather large patch behind each ear, and a broad lateral stripe (reaching from side of face to hind legs) ochraceous; tail indistinctly bicolor, pale dusky above, whitish beneath.
Summer pelage: Upper parts ochraceous, obscured by the profuse admixture of black-tij)ped hairs.
Cranial characters.
— Skull as in P. jiavm, but audital bulla?
separated anteriorly by breadth of basisphenoid.
Perognathus (Cheetodipus) nelsoni sp.
uuv.
(Fi^.
<j).
Type from Hacienda La Parada, San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
No.
50,214, 9 , old, U. S. Nat.
Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected August 19, 1892, by E. \\.
Nelson.
(Original number 3, 207. )
Measurements (taken in tlesh).
— Tz/pe; Total length, 190 mm; tail vertebrae, 105; hind foot, 24.
Ear from anterior base, 8 (in dry skin).
Average measurements of 14 specimens from type loealitv : Total length, 178; tail vertebne, 101; hind foot, 23.
General characters.— ^\ZQ rather small; ears rather long; tail of medium length and moderately crested on distal half; pelage rather coarse, with a few slender spines on the rump (the spines are absent in the young and in certain conditions of the molt).
Apparently C. nelsoni is an offshoot from the intermedinsohscniras type, from which it differs widely in external appearance and less markedly in cranial characters.
Color.
— Summer pelage coarse : Upper jDarts grizzled yellowish-brown from admixture of coarse huffy' and black hairs.
Winter pelage finer, and grayish black in color.
Under parts and feet white; tail bicolor, white below, brownishdusky above, becoming blackish distally.
Cranial characters.
— Skidl similar to that of intermedins, but somewhat larger; maxillary arms of zygomata more squarely spreading; nasals decidedly larger and longer.
Fig.
(>.
I Perognathus (Chaetodipus ) strphensi sp.
iiov.
(Fig.
7).
Type from N. W. Arm of Death Valley (Mesquite Valley), California.
No.
§^3, S , ad., U. S. Nat.
Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected April 6, 1891, by Frank Stephens.
(Original number 258.)
Measurements (taken in flesh).
— Type: Total length, 177 mm; tail vertebne, 96; hind foot, 21.
Ear from anterior base, 7'5 (in dry skin).
Average measurements of 2 specimens from type locality : Total length, 177; tail vertebra, 95; hind foot, 21.
General characters.— S\ze small; tail vertebrjB slightly longer than head and body; tail scantily crested; ears medium; tragus higher than broad ; pelage rather soft ; no spines on rump or elsewhere.
This species is evidently a dwarf of the penicillatus group, though the area it inhabits is completely isolated from the range of the penicillatus type.
Color.
— Upper parts butty-drab varying to pale drab-brown; a rather large pale ring around eye; under parts, feet, and fore legs white; no lateral line; tail bicolor, slightly darker than back above and terminally, white beneath.
Cranial characters.
— Skull similar to that of inFig.
7.
P. stetermedius, but much smaller and flatter, with interpheiisi.
parietal broadly and flatly pentagonal instead of strap shaped, and audital bullte more slender.
In size and general form the skull agrees most closely with arenarius from the middle region of the Peninsula of Lower California.
It ditters from arenarius in having the rostrum and nasals much broader and the audital bulla?
much less swollen.
Perognathus (Chaetodipus) intermedius canescens subsp.
nov.
Type from Jaral, Coahuila, Mexico.
No.
51,016, S , yg.
ad., U. S. Nat.
Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected January 14, 1893, by Clark P. Streator.
(Original number 2,557.)
Measurements (taken in flesh).
— Ti/pe : Total length, 1 93 mm ; tail vertebra, 117 ; hind foot, 22.
Ear from anterior base, 8 (in dry skin).
Average measurements of 2 specimens from type locality : Total length, 189; tail vertebme, 111; hind foot, 22.
General characters.
— Similar to interinedins, but slightly larger and much grayer.
Color.
— Upper parts drab-gray, plentifully lined with dusky on median ])art of back and over rump; under parts and feet white; lateral line obsolete ; tail bicolor, brownish above, becoming dusky distally ; white beneath.
Cranial characters.
— Skull similar to C. intermedium obscvriis, but narrower anteriorly (across maxillary arms of zygomata); interparietal broader anteroposteriorly ; ascending branches of premaxillie reaching posteriorly behind nasals; frontals considerably narrower between orbits.
ILLUSTRATIONS.
(Skulls all enlarged li.)
Fig.
1.
Perognathus baileyi, 9 , No.
24,775.
Type.
Magdalena, Sonora, Mexico.
Fig.
2.
P. columhianus, $ ,'^o.2,d,Ab^.
Type.
Pasco, Washington.
Fig.
3.
P. nevadensis, $ , No.
54,565.
Halleck, Nevada (type locality).
Fig.
4.
P. longimembris paiiamintimts, S ,1^0.
W,H6Q.
Type.
Panamint Mts.
, Calif Fig.
5.
P. fiavus mexicanus, 9, No.
50,713.
Tlalpam, Valley of Mexico (type locality).
Fig.
6.
P. (Clurtodipus) nelsoni, 9 , No.
50,214.
Type.
Hacienda La Parada, San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
Fig.
7.
1\ (Ch(etodipus) stepheusi, 9 , No.
39,874.
N. W. Arm Death Valley, Calif, (type locality).
Septembkr 4.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chaix-.
Twenty-three persons present.
September 11.
Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
The death of H. T. Cresson, September 6, 1894, was announced.
September 18.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twentyfive persons present.
September 25.
Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — "Descriptions of a New Subgenus and New Species of Arvicoline Rodents from British Columbia and Washington," by Samuel N. Rhoads.
"Recent Mound Exploration in Ohio," by Clarence B. Moore.
"List of the Diptera of Jamaica, with Descriptions of New Species," by Charles W. Johnson.
Observations on Blarina brevieauda.
— Dr. Harrison Allen drew attention to several structural features in this animal.
The lower jaw articulates with the skull, not only by the tem])oromandil)u]ar joint, but by a sphenoido-maudibular.
The one last named was described as being much the larger and apparently more important of the two.
The mandibular surface is placed on the inner side of the ascending ramus, and the sphenoidal surface is situated at the base of the pterygoid process.
It forms a deep recess, the mouth of which is directed outward, the bases of the pterygoid processes are convex and opposed to one another on either side of the mesopterygoid fossa.
The occipital condyles are without division : the appearance is quite the same as in the Cetacea, and suggests a similar mechanism of the atlanto-occipital joint, namely, a cranium which is deviated scarcely at all from a horizontal plane.
The anterior annular ligament of the ankle-joint is ossified, and constitutes part of the tibia.
The astragalus is nearly flat on proximal surface, and the patellar trochlea is low and wide.
These two characters probably co-ordinate, and establish Blarina as an animal whose posterior extremity is of low specialization, and one which supports the trunk imperfectly.
The absence of the pubic symphysis probablv is associated with the above conditions.
The biceps femoris and gracilis constitute one muscle, and the two enclose the slender semitendinosus in a manner suggestive of the tenuissimus of Lepus.
The following were ordered to be printed: —
