DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUBSPECIES OF TROUT FROM McCLOUD RIVER, CALIFORNIA.
BY DAVID STARR JORDAN.
Salmo gairdneri stonei, siibsp.
nov. Allied to the form called Shno irideiis, but distinguished by its small scales, the number of scales in a longitudinal series lieing about 155, 82 before dorsal, where they are small and imbedded, 25 above lateral line.
Teeth fewer and smaller than in var.
irideus, those on the vomer in a single zigzag series.
Axillary scale of ventral small.
Pectoral 1+ in head.
Eye large, 4^ in head.
Maxillary 2 1-10.
Upper parts plain greenish.
Spots small and sparse on dorsal, adipose fin and caudal; a few spots only on posterior part of the body.
A faint red lateral band; cheeks and opercles with red; no red between branches of lower jaw.
Depth 4 in length.
Anal rays 11.
Described from a specimen (No.
900 Mus.
Stanford Univ.)
14 inches in lengtli collected by Livingston Stone in McC'loud River at Baird, California This form is well known to the Indians and to fishermen on the Upper Sacramento According to Mr. Stone the Indian fishermen say tliat it is abundant in the McCloud River about eight miles above Baird.
They are larger in size than ordinary irideus, one having been taken weighing 12 pounds.
It is known to the Indians as No-shee or Kissuee.
The subspecies is named for Livingston Stone, Director of the 11.
S. Fish Hatchery at Baird.
February 6.
The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair.
Thirty-seven ]iersons pi-esent.
A paper entitled " Ol^servatious ou the Geology of adjacent parts of Oklahoma and northwest Texas," by Edw.
D. Cope, was presented for publication.
A Neu> Central American Papa.
— Mr. H. A. Pilsbry exhibited specimens of a small land shell from Pol von, Nicaragua, and offered the following description : Pupa polvonensis n. sp.
(PI.
I, fig.
11).
Shell cylindrical, somewhat tapering above, opaque gravish-white with obli(]ue brown streaks.
Whorls oh, somewhat convex; aperture small, without intei-nal plica?
or denticles; lip thin, simple, the columellar margin dilated, partly concealing the round and rather large umbilicus.
Alt.
2, diam.
1-3 mm.
This species resenddes I\ shnp/ex Gld.
in the toothless aperture and thin lips, but differs in coloration, the larger umbilicus, etc.
February 13.
The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair.
Thirty persons present.
February 20.
The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair.
Thirty-nine persons present.
The death of Edward 8.
Whelen, a member, was announced.
Papers under the folloAving titles were presented for publication : — " Tanais robustus, a new species of Auisopoda."
By H. F. Moore. "
List of Port Jackson Chitons collected by Dr. Cox, with a revision of Australian Acanthix-hitidse. "
By Henrv A. Pilsbrv.
February 27.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Thirty-nine persons present.
A paper entitled " Re-exploration of Hartman'sCave in 1898," by H. C. Mercer, was presented for pulilication.
W. Graham Tyler and Ruth Clement, M. D., were elected members.
The following were ordered to be pinnted : —
