HOMOLOGIES OF THE ALISPHENOID AND PETROMASTOID BONES IN VERTEBRATES.
BY HENKY C. CHAPMAN M. D. To those unfamiliar with modern views upon the morplioloiify of the skull it may not be known that any difference of opinion still prevails among anatomists as to what bones in the skull of the lower vertebrates should be regarded as homologues or representatives of the great wing of the sphenoid and petromastoid in the skull of Man and other mammalia.
Considering the numerous and important paheontological and embryological researches made in recent years and in view of the fact that the remains of extinct animals and the development and structure of existing ones have been described so elaborately it might naturally be supposed that the question of the special homologies of the bones of the skull would have long since been definitely settled.
So far however from this being the case as a matter of fact anatomists in certain instances at least on the one hand designate the same bone by different names and on the other different bones by the same name.
The confusion of ideas thus engendered by obscure nomenclature makes it often very difficult to understand what particular bone is referred to especially when the description relates to the cranial bones of some extinct animal.
Apart from this consideration it is obvious that unless the special homologies of the bones of the skull of different vertebrates are determined and identical bones be designated by the same name it will be impossible to assign to an animal its proper position in the order of Nature or determine its phylogeny in the light of evolution especially if the animal be au extinct one and its natuxal affinities obscure.
The hope of dissipating some of the confusion prevailing as to the nomenclature of certain of the bones in the skull of Man and other vertebrates prompts the author to submit a resume of some wellknown osteological fsicts with however an interpretation of the same not hitherto presented at least as far as known to him.
Even if the latter be not accepted the determination of the synonyms of the bones in question may at least not prove superfluous hereafter to coworkers in this field of research.
The prevailing view among anatomists at the present day appears to be that the petromastoid portion of the temporal bone is developed in Man from three distinct centres of ossification named respectively prootic opisthotic and epiotic that the prootic and opisthotic coalesce to form the pars petrosa the epiotic giving rise to the specially mastoid part of the pars mastoidea and later joining the other two.
According to this view the homologues of these three centres of ossification of the petromastoid of Man exist in the skull of the lower vertebrata either as distinct bones or more or less coalesced with each other or with adjacent bones.
The bone formerly considered as the homologue of the great wing of the sphenoid or the alisphenoid Figs.
1 2 a is regarded as the prootic or the homologue of the upper part of the human pars petrosa.
The alisphenoid proper t is often but little developed or even absent in the skull of the lower vertebrates  the bone formerly named occipital externe or parFiG.
1.
Side view of human skull.
occipital is regarded as the homologue of the opisthotic or epiotic while the latter is often represented by a small ossification coalesced with the supra occipital.
So far as known to the author Kerckringius is usually regarded as ss having been the first anatomist to describe the petromastoid portion of the temporal 1 bone as developed from three centres of ossification.
Unless the author has misunderstood the meaning of the text however that which Kerckriuirius refers to as being developed from three centres of ossification is not the whole petromastoid but only that part of the pars petrosa which constitutes the maramillary process or pars mastoidea the pars petrosa proper having been more or less deFiG.
2.
Interior view veloped before and independent of the three of humau skull.
centres.
lu the fifth chapter of his Osteogeuia Foetorum published in 1G90 Kerckringius observes   Ossis petrosi pars ilia quae processum mammilluarem constituit terna de novo acquisivit ossicula unum pyriforma acutiore sui parte squamoso annectitur alterum scutum ovale referens magnitudine priori vix cedens media cartilagine ab eo separatur uti c.  tertium ab utroque quam vis hoc magnitudine neutri sit aequiparandum vix aciculae majoris caput adaequans sunt autem eo situ ordiue collocata queni tabula foetus v mensium usurpata oculis facilius ad mentem quam verba transmittet.
.
.
.
Constat ergo os temporuni hoc quinto mense sex distinctis ossiculis osse videlicet squamoso anulo osse interuam civitatem efformante Ac tribus notabilibus quae hoc mense ex orta esse diximus.
Sexto mense pyriforrae c. ovale scutiforme coalueruntinuuum tertium uon nihil auctum est magnitudine.
Septimo mense jam tertium illud ossiculum duobus mense superiors inter se coalitis accessit.
That these three centres of ossification viz. the pyriforma scutum ovale and tertium do not correspond exactly to the prootic epiotic and opisthotic centres in the sense in which these terms are used by modern anatomists appears from the text of the latter part of the passage quoted beginning  constat ergo the temporal bone being said to consist at the fifth month of six distinct ossicles which would be impossible if two of the tribus notabilibus coalesced to form the osse internam cavitatem efformante which however as.
we shall see hereafter they do a little later.
That by the osse internam civitatem efformante is meant that part of the pars petrosa developed before and independent of the appearance of the three distinct ossicles becomes evident from the description of the state of the development of the temporal bone at the previous or fourth mouth Kerckringius stating that the bone at the end of that month consists of three ossicles  annulo  osse squamoso and illo jam commemorato the latter being the  osse internam  or that part of the pars petrosa developed at that period. '
' Quarto mense mirum visu quam cito  quanto perfectione os squamosum magnam partem factum sit osseura.
Os petrosum jam rubicunda cartilaginesignavit cavitatis suae formam orgauorum audituscapacem nihil tamen adhuc praesefert osseum praeterquam uuam in longitudi1 Theochjii Kerckriugii Osteogeuia Foetuum.
Bibliotheca Anatomica T. II Genevae 1685. nem proteusam crassiusculara  inaequalem lineam annulo sen circulo autea nomiuato subjectara c. paulo lougius pvotensam.
Os itaque teinporum hoc meuse tribus constat ossiculis annulo scilicet' osse squamoso et illo jam comraemorato.
Further according to Kerckringius the pyriforma prootic coalesces at the sixth month with the scutum ovale epiotic to form one bone the latter being joined at the seventh month by the  tertium illud ossiculum opisthotic whereas as we shall show it is the opisthotic and not the epiotic that combines with the prootic to form the pars petrosa.
As to what Kerckringius meant by his  tria petrosi ossis distincta ossicula we will try to make clear in our description of the manner in which the petromastoid develops in Man.
The work ' ' De Aure Humana  by Cassebohm appeared in 17341735.
The description of the development of the ear given by this author while agreeing in the main with that of Kerckringius differs from it in some respects.
Cassebohm recognized however with Kerckringius the fact of the pars petrosa being more or less ossified before the appearance of the tria ossicula as shown by numerous passages in his text as well as by his excellent figures.'
In the judgment of the author Meckel rather than Kerckringius or Cassebohm was the first anatomist to describe the petromastoid of the temporal bone as arising from three distinct centres of ossification.
According to this author the first part of the labyrinth to ossify is that immediately surrounding the fenestra rotunda whence ' Kerckringius loc.
cit.
Tractatus Quatuor Anatomici de Aure Humana.
Halae Magdeburgicae 1734 p. 19Kerckringii relatio de osse temporuni in foetu trium meusium cum mea observatione de tbetu totidem couvenit excepto.
.
.
.
Idem ille porro in foetu quinque mensium partem petrosam circa processum mastoideuni tria ossicula habere refert quorum due mense sexto coaulere  verum in his mensibus.
in loco indicate nulla ossa peculiariased cartilaginem vidi Tab.
3.
Fig.
22 lit.
K. Tractatus tiuatuor c. p. 45  Antetiuam tympani membranam removebam cochleae tnler membranae hujus partem superiorem  niediam tangebat  tiuani vis cartilaginem esset foraminis tanien rotundi quod ad cochleam  ducit  pertiuet margo erat osseus partem que annuli posteriorem attingebat.
.
.
.
.
Cochleae que tuber ex fusco juem habebat colorem nigrum acquisivisset tunc foraminis rotundi margo allius osseus que apparebat.
Tractatus Quintus Anatomicus.
Halae Magdeburgicae 1735 p. 15    In foetu trium mensium cochleam circa foramen rotundum osseam reliquam vero cochleae partem cartilagineam.
In foetu quatuor mensium cochleam vidi osseam excepta lamina spirali quae cartilaginea erat  banc in foetu quinque mensium osseam demum conspexi.
 Handbuch der Menschlichen Anatomic Band 4.
Halle  Berlin 1820 p. 49. the spreading ossification produces the floor of the labyrinth.
The second centre of ossification arising at the extreme end of the superior vertici
canal gives rise to the internal auditory meatus and the floor of the cochlea.
The third centre of ossification begins as a scale upon the middle of the internal vertical semicircular canal.
It is to be inferred that Meckel supposed the mastoid is developed from the latter centre for though he does not say so in the passage just referred to as he had some years previously expressed the view that the mastoid is developed from a special centre distinct from that forming the pars petrosa and as the latter is formed according to Meckel from the first two centres the only centre remaining to form the mastoid is the third centre that beginning as a scale upon the internal vertical semicircular canal.
In his well known work on the temporal bone Kallmann also expresses the view that the mastoid portion is developed from a special centre of ossification offering as a proof thereof the fact of his being able to scrape off in certain specimens of the dried skull the third oval centre of ossification without injuring the semicircular canal.''
In 1848 Rathke in describing the development of the turtle regarded the two bones the rocher and occipital externe of Cuvier which according to this author form the labyrinth as corresponding when taken together to the pars petrosa of the temporal bone of higher vertebrates   Die Knorpel Kapsel welche sich auch bein den Schildkroeten um den hilutigeu Theil des Ohr labyrinthes bildet und anfangs eine sehr einfache Form und nur sehr diinne Wandung hat bleibt in ihrer gegen das Gehirn gekehrten Halfte bei raehreren Bchildkrceten namentlich in den Gattungen Emys und Chelonia wenn nicht gar bei alien zeitlebens knorplig.
Ihre iiussere und groessere Halfte hingegen verknochert allmaehlig so jedoch dass in ihr zwei Knochenstiicke einstehen von denen ein jedes einen Theil des hiiutigen Ohrlabyrinthes namentlich Theile der halbzirkel formigen Kanale einschliesst und von denen nur das eine mit dem Namen des Felsenbeins belegt das andere von Cuvier nicht recht 5 Archiv Band 1 1815 p. 636.
Die vergleichcnde Osteologie des Schlafenbeins Hannover 1837. p. 3    Dieser Knoclien kern zcigt sicb am trocknen skelet als ein dvales Knopicben das ich leiebt abkratzeu konnte oline die kanale zn verk'tzen znui zeicbeu dass dieser Tbeil als ein besonderes stiick entsteht.
'' Alispbenoid Prootic.
 Paroccipitiil Opisthotic.
passend 0.s oceipitale extenuuii genaunt vvordeu ist.
Beide Knochenstiicke nun die zusamnieiigenomnien eigentlich niclits anderes als das Felseubeiii der hohern Thiere vorstellen.
About the saine time the late Professor Owen' in referring to the views of Kerckringius as to there being tria petrosa ossis distincta ossicula called attention to the primary independence of the base of the processus mastoideus as  a fact of much more significance than its brief and transitory manifestation would lead the author to divine.
He further observed that in the cold blooded vertebrates the mastoid retains with a few exceptions its primary embryonic distinctness as an independent element of the skull.
It should be mentioned in this connection however that as Professor Owen regarded the bone now considered in the lower vertebrata as the squamosal to be the homologue of the special centre of ossification of the human pars mastoidea he called it accordingly the mastoid.
In 18G1 the view of Meckel as to the original distinctness in the embryo of the three parts of the petromastoid portion of the temporal bone was confirmed by Kolliker in his description of the development of that bone in Man.
Finally Professor Huxley in his lectures as Hunterian Professor at the Royal College of Surgeons of England in 1863 and embodied substantially in his  Lectures on the Elements of Comparative Anatomy ' developed at length and in detail the view that the petromastoid portion of the tempoi'al bone in man is developed from three centres as described by Meckel and Klliker and further that these three centres are reresented in the lower vertebrata as more or less distinct bones as hekl by Rathke and Owen.
The two bones described by Rathke as forming in the turtle the felsenbein were named by Prof. Huxley the prootic'' and opisthotic that regarded by Owen as the mastoid was considered by Prof Huxley to be the squamosal'' and the specially mastoid part of the pars mastoidea the scutum ovale referens of Kerckringius was named by Prof. Huxley the epiotic'.
' Ui'beilit Eiitwickcluii der Sehildkrotcu.
BrauiischweiK 1S48 p. 52.
'Ou the Archetype aiul Uumologies of the Vertebnite Skeleton.
London 1848 p. 29.
' Eutvvickhuig.igeschichte des Menschou imd der Hoheren Thiere.
Leipzig p. 32.
1London 1864.
 Op.
cit.
p. 222.
'Op.
cit.
p. 222.
'Op.
cit.
p. 230.
'Op.
cit.
p. 155.
The view of the morphology and terminology of the periotic capsule and adjacent bones as sustained by Prof. Huxley and most other anatomists of the present day is based upon two assumptions  1st.
That the petromastoid portion ot the temporal bone in Man develops from three distinct centers of ossification named respectively prootic opisthotic and epiotic and represented in the skull of the the lower vertebrata by three bones bearing respectively the same three names and more or less coalesced with each other or adjacent bones.
2d.
That the bone lying in front of the exit of the inferior maxilliary division of the fifth nerve should be regarded in the lower vertebrata as the homologue of the great wing of the sphenoid in Man and named the alisihenoid and the bone lying behind such exit as homologous with the upper part of the pars petrosa of Man and named the prootic.
The conclusion that follows if these two assumptions be admitted will be that the alisphenoid or homologue of the great wing of the sphenoid is often but little developed or may be even absent in the skull of the lower vertebrata its place being supplied by the prootic bone or the homologue of the upper part of the pars petrosa of man.
Notwithstanding the high authority of Meckel Kolliker Huxley and others among whom may be mentioned the late W. Kitchen Parker universally conceded while living to be the highest authrity on all luestions pertaining to the develoiMuent and morphology of the skull the threefold development of the petromastoid portion of the temporal bone has been denied by anatomists and notably by the late Dr. Joseph Leidy. '
The author having had occasion recently to study the development of the temporal bone in Man has satisfied himself at least that the mastoid portion of the petrosal is not developed from a special centre of ossification but from the petrosal and siuaiiiosal portions of the temporal as described by Leidy' and that there is no homologue therefore in the skull of Man of the bone described as the efiotic in that of the lower vertebrata.
J'urther while there is no doubt that the petrosal part of the temporal in INlan is developed as we shall Science Vol.
1.
No.
18.
June 8 1883 p. 507.
18 Op.
cit.
p. 507 Human Anatomy 1889 p. 116. see presently from two distinct centres of ossification these two centres in the judgment of the author are not so exactly represented in the skull of the lower vertebiata that the names prootic and opisthotic can be given them.
At a period about the middle of the fifth mouth of intrauterine life the temporal bone exhibits according to the dissections of the author three distinct ossifications  the squamosal the tympanic and a ring surrouudiug the foramen rotundum ot the otherwise cartilaginous labyrinth.
A little later a second centre of ossification makes its appearance at the extreme end of the superior vertical canal.
From these two centres of ossification which Ave will name the upper and lower otic as indicating their situation in Man there arise due to progressive ossification extending through the labyrinth the pars petrosa and twothirds of the pars mastoidea of the temporal the remaining third of the latter being developed from the squamosal.
From the lower otic ringlike ossific centre surrounding the foramen rotundum arise all that part of the pars petrosa seen beneath the cranium viz.
 the lower part of the cochlea the promonotoiy and lower part of the fenestra ovalis the fenestra rotunda the lower arm of the posterior semicircular canal the lower part of the facial canal jugular fossa the carotid canal and the floor of the tyrapannum.
From the upper otic ossific centre that appearing on the superior vertical canal arise all that part of the pars petrosa seen within the cranium except that entering into the formation of the jugular fossa viz.
 the upper part of the cochlea including the cupola and the base the internal auditory meatus the upper part of the fenestra ovalis the ujjper arm of the posterior and the superior and vertical semicircular canals the upper part of the facial canal the tegmeii tympani.
The various structures just described as respectively produced from the two ossific centres having coalesced about the eighth month or even earlier to form the osseous labyrinth there is developed as a continuous outgrowth of the latter the pyramidal and mastoid portions of the petrosal the mastoid being formed more especially by outgrowths from the posterior and external semicircular canals.
The outgrowth from the posterior semicircular canal appears as an elliptical islet  'It should be mentioned in this connection that it is often impossible to determine exactly the age of a foetus since foetuses of the same age vary as regards length weight and develoiinu'iit.
Epiotic Huxley Op.
cit.
p. 155.
40 1894.
Fii'.
3 4 
 in the cartilage situated between the squamosal parietal and occipital bones and constituting therefore part of the wall of the cranium.
The elliptical islet having been developed a second quadrate  islet Fig.
3 4 q now appears in the cartilage and more particularly in the part of it lying between the elliptical islet and the squamosal.
The two islets the elliptical and quadrate subsequently uniting together form the mastoid Fiff.
3.
Temporal bone of human .
 ' .
.
   foetus.
portion oi the petrosal.
It the latter be developed in the manner just described then the  pyriforma  and scutum ovale of Kerckringius would be the parts described by Leidy as the elliptical and quadrate islets since the former like the latter coalescent in unum but not to the prootic and opisthotic centres since the latter are developed and coalesce before the islets even appear and for the reason already given that it is the pyriforma or prootic and the scutum ovale or epiotic that unite according to Kerckringius not the prootic and opisthotic.
The third ossicle of Kerckringius however the vix aciculye niajoris caput adaequans corresponds to that part of the lower otic or opisthotic that growing outward and backward makes its ap I pearance at the edge of the tympanic ring at an '  early period of intrauterine life and which soon combines as we have seen with the upper otic or prootic to form the pars petrosa the latter subsequently uniting with the squamosal to form the mastoid portion of the temporal.
If however there is no distinct mastoideus or epiotic centre of ns.sification in the temporal bone of Fig.
5.
Upper auterjyjjj  interpretation is there to be offered as to lor jjortion oi .skull ' of codfisli.
the homologies of the bones present in the fish and Fig.
4.
Temporal bone of human foetus.
1894.
41 Fig.
j.
Side vit'w of skull of codfish.
turtle and described by Cuvier ' as mastoideus and occipital externe bv Owen ' as mastoid and paroecipital and by Huxley ''' as squamosal and epiotic in tlie tisli and squamosal and opisthotic in the turtle
In reply to such query in the judgment of the author the bone No.
8 Figs.
5 6 7 8 described by Cuvier as mastoidien and bv Owen as mastoid in the skull of the lower vertebrates should be regarded as it is by Huxley and most modern anatomists as the homologue of the squamosal Fig.
3 s of the tenqjoral of iMau.
The bone No.
4 Figs.
5 8 the occipital externe perch Cuvier the paroecipital of Owen the epiotic of Huxley in fish opisthotic in turtle is not however represented as a distinct bone in the skull of Man but as the eminentia aspera of the occipital bone or the scabrous ridge extended from the middle of the Cjndyle towards the roots of the mastoid process.
 The name occipital externe or its English equivalent external occipital may as well then be retained for the bone No.
4 as simply expressing the fact that there exists in  Fig.
7.
Skull of python.
the skuU of the lower vertebrates a bone lying external to the supra and exoccipital irrespective of any preconceived hypotheses.
The names paroecipital and epiotic should be discarded as the former implies that the bone No.
4 is the parapophysis of the first cranial vertebra the latter that it is the honnjlogue of the special centre of ossification of the mastoid in Man.
It has been urged iu favor of the bone No.
4 being called the epiotic in the fish that it eaters into the formation of the earchamber its inner surface being excavated for the reception of part ot the posterior and external semicircular canal.
Such argument however loses all force when it is remembered that the exoccipital is similarly  Histoire Naturelle des Poissons Tome 1 p. 236.
2 Anatoniv of Vertebrates Vol.
1 p. 97.
23 Op.
cit.
p. 174.
8.
T. H. Soenimeriiis De Corporis Himmui Fabrica T. 1 1704 p. 105.
25 Alexander Monro.
The Anatomy of the Humane Bones Edinburgh 1732 110.
4 42 1894. excavated and that the latter bone together with the alispheuoid prootic petrosal opisthotic Suamosal and postfrontal bones enter into the formation of the otocrane.
It should be mentioned in this connection that the external occipital bone No.
4 Figs.
5 and 8 though piesenting in the turtle the same characters and similar relations as in the fish is usually described in that animal and in the alligator etc. as the opisthotic bone the epiotic being supposed then to be represented by an independent centre of ossification which while distinct at an early period of life later coalesces with the supraoccipiFig.
8.
Posterior view of tal No.
3 Fig.
9.
skull of turtle.
Even if such be universally the case it would only prove that either the supraoccipital develops in reptilia from two centres in the embryo or that there exists a bone epiotic in the skull of reptiles that has no homologue in that of fish or Man not that the bone No.
4 is the opisthotic.
Indeed as we shall see presently there is no reason to believe that an opisthotic bone that is the supposed homologue of the rocher or petrosal in the fish cod of the lower part of the pars petrosa of Man exists in the skull of the reptile turtle at all.
Admitting that the petromastoid portion of the temporal bone in Man develops from two centres of ossification it remains now to determine whether there exists in the skull of a codfish snake turtle or alligator the homologue of these two centres two bones to which the names prootic and opisthotic can be appropriately given and which taken together represent therefore the pars .
petrosa of the of the temporal bone in Man.
In considering this question let us begin by first pointing out in what respect the bone No.
6 Fig.
6 in the cod resembles and differs from the prootic or upper portion of the human pars petrosa Fig.
2 p.
It resembles it in its inner concavity usually supporting the anterior part of the vestibule and the anterior vertical semicircular canal.
It differs from it in not presenting a fenestra ovalis a cochlear roof osseous semicircular canals internal auditory meatus or tegmen tympani no such parts being present in the cod and in not transmitting the portio dura of the seventh nerve the latter also not existing in the codfish.
 If the bone No.
6 in the codfish be compared however with the great wing of the sphenoid in Man Figs.
1 2 a it will be observed that it agrees with the latter alisphenoid in articulating vath.
that part of the basicranial axis corresponding to the basisphenoid and with the parietals in entering into the formation of the lateral wall of the cranium supporting the mesencephalon and in being notched anteriorly perforated iu the carp for the transmission of the superior and inferior maxillary branches of the fifth nerve.
The bone No.
6 in the cod differs from the alisphenoid in Man as already mentioned in supporting part ot the membranous labyrinth and in the notch transmitting the inferior maxillary branch of the fifth nerve being situated in the anterior part of the bone rather than in the posterior part as is the case in Man.
In the consideration of the relative posterior of the notch v in the bone No.
6 in the fish and that of the foramen ovale in the alisphenoid of Man Fig.
2 fo the fact appears to have been entirely lost sight of that the notch or foramen in the fish corresponds to two distinct foramina in Man  the foramen rotundum Fig.
2 r and the foramen ovale Fig.
2 fo transmitting respectively the superior and inferior maxillary branches of the fifth nerve and that the part of the notch in the fish Fig.
6 V corresponding to the foramen rotundum in Man is situated anteriorly just as is the case in Man.
The situation of the exit of the superior maxillary nerve is therefore substantially the same in the bone No.
6 in the cod and absolutely so in the carp as in the alisphenoid of Man.
The objection that might still be urged that that part of the notch corresponding to the foramen ovale is situated anteriorly in the fish but posteriorly in  The author is familiar with the view entertained by some anatomists that hyomaiulibular branches of the fifth nerve represent in the fish the branches of the portio dura of the seventh nerve or facial in Man.
Such an interpretation is however untenable being based upon the assumption that the quadrate bone jujral caisse hypotympanic in the fish is thehomologue of the incus in Man the articulare corresponding then to the malleus.
As the quadrate and malleus are however developed as ossifications oi the proximal ends of Meckel's cartilage mandibular arch the quadrate must be the homologue of the malleus not the incus if it be homologous with either of the ear bones.
The hyomandiliular bone temporal mastoidien epitympanic in the fish is homologous with the incus these bones Ix'ing developed through the ossification of the proximal ends of the hyoid arch.
It must be admitted however that this last view leaves still uncxplaini'd why the articulare in the mandibular arch of the fish and the same bone together with the others entering into the formation of the lower jaw of the alligator are not represented in Man.
Mail has no significance since in Man and mamtnals generally there is always a small portion of the alisphenoid behind the foramen ovale amounting indeed in the sheep to about onehalf the bone.
The statement often made that the bone lying behind the exit of the fifth nerve is the homologue of the upper part of the human pars petrosa is simply not correct so far as concerns Man and mammals.
In view of the facts just mentioned some anatomists have considered the bone No.
6 in the fish as the homologue of the alisphenoid in Man and have so named it.
Other anatomists on the other hand impressed with the fact that the bone suports a part of the membranous labyrinth have regarded it as the homologue of the upper part of the human pars petrosa and called it accordingly prootic.
In the judgment of the author an insuperable objection to accepting the latter view is that it involves the inevitable but absurd conclusion that its homologue or the prootic portion of the pars petrosa must transmit the superior and inferior maxillary branches of the fifth nerve.
On the other hand it might be urged that the bone No.
6 cau not be the homologue of the alisphenoid in Man since the latter never supports any part of the membranous labyrinth.
In reply to the latter objection though at the risk of committing a petitio priucipii the author must say that it is just in this respect that the skull of the codfish differs from that of INIan  The bone No.
6 in the fish the homologue of the alisphenoid in Man protects the anterior part of the labyrinth as is done by the upper part of the human pars petrosa the difference being conditioned by the part of the membranous labyrinth being Fig.
9.
Interior view of auditory region of alligator relatively enormously developed in the fish the osseous covering but little so whereas in Man the labyrinth is but little developed while the pars petrosa is much so.
If this view be correct then the bone No.
6 in the fish must be regarded as the hoinologiu
of the alisphenoid in Man and the name given to it by Cuvier of grand aile or its English equivalent alisphenoid Owen retained.
If the bone No.
6 in the skull of the python Fig.
7 turtle Fig.
10 alligator Figs.
9 11 be compared with that so numbered in the codfish Fig.
6 it will be found that while it resembles the latter in articulating with the basisphenoid and parietal bones entering into the formation of the lateral wall of the cranium presenting a notch or foramen for the transmission of the superior and inferior maxillary branches of the fifth nerve and protecting the anterior part of the organ of hearing it differs from it in transmitting the filaments of the portio dura and mollis of the seventh nerve and in forming the anterior half of the fenestra ovalis of the vestibule.
In the latter respects and in protecting the anterior part of the labyrinth the bone No.
6 in the reptile certainly resembles Fig.
10.
Interior view of auditory region of turtle.
the upper or prootic part of the human pars petrosa and would be more appropriately named therefore the prootic than the bone No.
6 in the fish.
The fact however of this bone in the reptile transmitting by notch or foramen' the maxillary branches of the 2 It should be mentioned in this connection that there are present in the skulls of certain fishes salmon and carp three bones which have been regarded as the prootic alisphenoid and orhitosplienoid.
As the latter bone the most anterior of the three is however inconstant and as we regard it when present as an interorbital bone not the orltitosplienoid its presence or absence will not affect the argument as stated above the socalled prootic in the carp for example being the alisphenoid and the alisiihenoid being the orbitosphenoid.
2 It will be observed in the case of the python Fig.
7 that the two foramina in the bone No.
6 are as well marked as the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale are in the alisphenoid of Man.
fifth uerve is irreconcilable as in the case of the fish with the idea that it is the homologue of the upper prootic portion of the human pars petrosa.
On the other hand if the bone No.
6 in the reptile be regarded as the homologue of the alisphenoid in Man the difiiculty presents itself that the former enters into the formation of the fenestra ovalis and transmits in the reptile the filaments of the facial and acoustic nerves which the alisphenoid of INIan never does the fenestra rotunda and the nerves being confined to the pars petrosa.
With the view of reconciling these difiiculties the bone No.
6 in the reptile has been regarded by some anatomists as consisting really of two bones fused into one the anterior and posterior parts being viewed respectively as alisphenoid and prootic bones.
The study of the development of the reptilian skull offers some confirmation of this view since as a matter of fact according to Parker'' the bone No.
6 in the snake develops from two centres the anterior of which is regarded as the alisphenoid the posterior as the prootic.
If the latter view be accepted the result of development in the skull of the suake is very different from that in Man since the prootic ossification instead of combining with the opisthotic to form the pars petrosa unites with the alisphenoid to form one bone.
Further it does not follow because the bone No.
6 develops from two centers of ossification that it must necessarily be regarded as consisting of two distinct bones any more than the basi sphenoid must be regarded as consisting of three bones because it develops from three centres. It seems to the author that the view most reconcilable with the facts of development as well as those relating to the adult condition of the skull is to regard the bone No.
6 in the reptile as the homologue of the bone so numbered in the fish and of the alisphenoid in Man.
In the absence of a pars petrosa in the skull of the reptile and bird some other bone or bones must fulfil the functions of that bone in supporting and protecting the labyrinth and in transmitting the facial and acoustic nerves.
These functions are filled in the reptile more or less by the bones Nos.
6 4 2 3 which we regard as the alisphenoid external occipital exoccipital and supraoccipital or.
29 The Morphology of the Skull London 1877 p. 204.
 One for the mediau basisphenoid two for the symmetrical basitemporals the homologiies of the liugulae sphenoidal es of Man.
in regard to the latter more particularly its inferior and internal part epiotic No.
3  Fig.
9.
There remains now for consideration the question as to how much of the lower portion of the human pars petrosa is represented in the skull of the lower vertebrata.
In other words is there any distinct bone in the skull of the lower vertebrata to which the name opisthotic can be appropriately given 
In the skull of the codfish as in that of the Gadidae generally there exists though often but little developed or even absent in many fishes a large and conspicuous bone No.
16 Fig.
6 which articulates with the basioccipital basisphenoid exoccipital paroccipital squamosal and alisphenoid bones and forms the posterior lateral wall of the cranium.
This bone.
No.
16 on account of supporting that part of the membranous labyx'inth containing the otolithes has been usually regarded by anatomists Cuvier Owen Huxley as corresponding to the whole of the human pars petrosa or at least to some part of it and has been accordingly named rocher petrosal opisthotic etc.
In the fish the labyrinth however is not exclusively and entirely enclosed by a special osseous covering as in Man.
The cavity enclosing the organ of hearing is formed not only by the bone No.
16 but by the alisphenoid exoccipital paroccipital squamosal and postfrontal bones as well.
It opens widely into the cranial cavity.
It presents nothing comparable to the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda of the pars petrosa.
Such being the case it is impossible to determine whether the bone No.
16 in the fish represents the whole or only a portion and more particularly the lower or opisthotic portion of the human pars petrosa.
The author would therefore prefer to call the bone No.
16 in the fish simply the rocher or its equivalent the petrosal as indicating the probability of it corresponding to some part of the human pars petrosa.
The term opisthotic is objectionable as not only implying that the bone No.
16 in the fish corresponds to the lower or opisthotic part of the human pars petrosa for which view there is no evidence but further for the reason already given that it is the bone No.
4 in the fish not the bone No.
16 that is the homologue of the external occipital the socalled opisthotic in the turtle.
Indeed the bone No.
16 of the fish does not appear to be represented as such either in 1 Even Parker admits that  in some fonus the periotic bones do not arise separately but the supraoccipital and cxoccipitals extend into the epiotic and opisthotic regions respectively.
0.
cit.
p. 349.
48 PROCEEDIKUS OF THE ACADEMY OP 1894. the reptile or in the higher vertebrata.
In some respects it is a peculiarly ichthyic bone though not invariably present even within the limits of the class as already mentioned.
The earchamber in reptiles is more or less closed internally at least in the adult condition by three bones separated by a Yshaped suture distinctly visible in the longitudinally divided skull Fig.
9.
The two lower.
No.
2 6 Fig.
9 of the three bones are situated on either side of the vertical stem of the Yshaped suture the third remaining bone No.
3 within the diverging branches of the latter.
Externally the osseous vestibule presents a fenestra rotunda fnr Fig.
11 situated entirely within the bone No.
2 and a fenestra ovalis fno the posterior half of which is formed by the margin of the bone just mentioned the anterior half by that of the bone No.
6.
The membranous labyrinth consists of a vestibule semicircular caual and in the turtle and alligator of a rudimentary cochlea.
The fenestne are closed by membranes in the living animal and to that of the fenestra p ovalis is attached a colJ umellarlike bone which on account of being connected with the membrana tympani is regarded as the homologue of the stapes of the human ear.
The membrana tympani is attached in turn to bone No.
28 Figs.
7 10 usually called the quadrate and regarded as representing either the tympanic bone or the malleus in Man.' The tympanic membrane being so superficially situated neither external auditory meatus nor external ear can be said to exist in reptiles.
The nearest appi'oach to an external ear is seen in the ci'ocodilia which are provided with two cutaneous folds situated just 117 2.
Fig.
11.
External view of auditory region of alligator.
'' Some of the reasons that may be regarded in favor of accepting the latter hypothesis as the correct one have already been stated.
1894.
49 outside the membrana tynipaui which when approximated close the entrance thereto.
In the crocodilia each tympanum Fig.
12 T is not only provided with its own lateral Eustachian tube proper LE but the two tympana communicate directly with each other superiorly by means of a passage traversing the supra occipital bone S and inferiorly by anterior Fig.
12.
Diagram of tympauic canals of lateral passages C descending alligator.
from the floor of the tympanum into the anterior branch.
A of median Eustachian tube ME situated just behind the posterior nares and indirectly by posterior lateral passages B given off on either side from the lateral Eustachian tubes proper LE and terminating in the posterior branch P of the median Eustachian tube ME.
Further passages extend from each tympanum Q through the quadrate thence by a membranous tube into the articulare of the lower jaw.
' In the turtle the most posterior of the two lower bones entering into the formation of the earchamber is a distinct bone.
No.
4 Fig.
10 and for reasons already given is regarded by the author as homologous with the external occipital of the fish and is therefore similarly numbered and named.
In the lizard python and alligator the functions of the external occipital bone of the turtle No.
4 Fig.
10 are however filled by what appears in the adult skull at least to be a part of the exoccipital bone No.
2 Fig.
9.
At an early period of development in the snake and possibly in all reptilia this part of the exoccipital exists as a distinct bone notwithstanding that in later life it may have coalesced to such an extent with the exocciiital that its original distinctness is entirely lost.
If such be the case which is not at all improbable then that part of the exoccipital in the alligator No.
2 Fig.
9 entering into the formation of the internal earchamber should lie regarded as the homologue of the external occipital No.
4 Fig.
10 in the turtle.
The only essential 33 Windischmann.
De Penitiori auris in Ampliibiis structura 1831.
Owen Phil.
Trans. 1850.
Stannius Haudbuch der Zootomie Zweite Aufl. Zweites Buch 18.56 pp.
58 164. difference in the two would then be that in the alligator the external occipital coalesces with the exoccipital whereas in the turtle it remains a distinct bone throughout life.
It will be observed however whether the osseous part in question be regarded as an outgrowth of the exoccipital or as a distinct bone coalescing with the latter that in neither case would the name opisthotic be ajpropriate since this bone or part being homologous with the external occipital should be so named.
It has already been mentioned that that part of the supraoccipital entering into the formation of the earchaiuber is said to be developed from a special centre of ossification.
No.
8  Fig9 and in accordance with the idea of it being the homologue of the epiotic centre of the human mastoid named the epiotic.
As there is no reason however for supposing that such a third centre of ossification exists even if the part in question be characteristic of reptiles the name epiotic should be discarded lecauseitis misleading.
Finally as the author regards the bone No.
6 Figs ti 7 9 10 not as the prootic but as the homologue of the alisphenoid in Man Figs.
1 2 a there is no reason for retaining the names prootic opisthotic and epiotic. Indeed the periotic bones or bone so named should not be regarded as constituting any part of the proper cranial wall ut as special ossifications of the earchamber depending upon the extent of the development of the organ of hearing.
In a general way it may be said that the transitory conditions through which the human ear passes in the course of its develoment are more or less permanently retained as such in the organ of hearing in the lower vertebrata.
Such being the case we cannot expect to find the protective osseous covering of the ear in the higher vertebrata equally well developed in the lower ones.
On the contrary in proportion as the ear is undeveloped we may expect to find any of the adjacent bones forming the wall of the cranium protecting and entering into the formation of the earchamber just as the tymjanum is formed in birds by the basisphenoid squamosal and exoccipital rather than by the pais petrosa as in Man.
There is no more reason for supposing that there is an archetypal temporal bone ''The author does not refer to the skulls of birds siuce the latter heiug specialized reptiles the disposition of the parts in question as might be expected is essentially the same.
It should be nienlioued however that the membrana tympani is not attached in birds to the quadrate bone as in reptiles but to the outer margin of the tympanum.
the different parts of which must exist in all vertebrata than for believing that there is an archetypal vertebra and that the skull must consist of several of the same at least in a GoetheOken sense.
It does not follow however because a difference of opinion may prevail among morphologists as to the special homologies of certain of the bones of the head that there sliould be any question as to the truth of the general doctrine of the unity of organization of the skull so firmly established by Cuvier and others.
On the supposition that the higher vertebrata have descended from the lower it is to be expected that the general structure of the skull should be the same in both the fundamental characters of the skull of the former having been acquired by inheritance from that of the latter.
On the other hand the skull should present greater or less modifications according to the special nature of the different vertebrata such modifications being induced by the causes of variation incidental to different kinds of life.
The skull like the organism in general is not made according to a Platonic idea or pattern but grows its characters lieing acquired by inheritance as modified by variation.
52 1894. g Synonyms of Certain of the Bones of the Head According TO French German and English Anatomists.
CUVIER 1.
Occipital lateral.
Occipital superieiir perch reptiles ami birds.
Occipital externe percli reptiles apophyse mastoid mammals.
Grand aile fishes birds mammals roeher reptiles.
Mastoidien fishes and reptiles temporal birds and monotremes.
Aile orbitaire.
Roeher fishes birds and mammals.
Jugal.
Temporal lizards croco dilesand mammals Juga birds monotremes.
Caisse ophidia crocodiles mammals.
Os tympanique lizards s carre birds.
Temporal fislies Tympanique batrachia.
Symplectique fishes.
Tympanal fishes.
Jugal fishes and batrachia.
1 Lecons d Anatomic Com lar'e.
R'gne Animal.
Histoiie Natnrelle dts Pois.sons.
Ossements Fos.siles.
MECKEIj 2.
Seitliehes unteres Hintcrhauptbein.
Hinterhauptschuppe.
Seitliehes oberes HInter hauptbein.
Felsenbein fishes and reptiles Grosserkeil beinriiigel mammals.
Zitzenbein.
birds and Grosserkeilbeinttiigel.
Felsenbein fishes.
Jochbein.
Schlafenbeinschuppe.
Pauke.
Oberesgelenkbein.
Grittelformiges Stiick des Schliifenbeins.
Scheibenformiges Stiick des Schlafenbeins.
Unteresgelenkbein.
2 System der vergleichen den Anatoinie OWKN 3.
Exoccipital.
Huxley 4.
Exoccipital.
SuperoccipitalSnpraoccipital.
Paroccipital.
Alisphonoid.
Mastoid.
Orbitospenoid.
Petrosal.
Malar.
Squamosal.
Tympanic.
Epitympanic fishes.
Mesotympanic fishes.
Pretympanic fifshes.
Hypotympanic fishes.
3 Archetype of Vertebrate Skeleton.
Anatomy of Vertebrates.
Epiotic in fish Opisthotic in reptile.
Piootic.
Squamosal.
Alisphenoid.
Opisthotic.
Jugal.
Quadratojugal.
Quadrate.
Hyomandibular fishes.
Symplectic fishes.
Metapterygoid fishes.
Quadrate fishes.
4 Elements of Comparative Anatoniy Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals.
10 16 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 1894.
53 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFEHISTORIES OF PLANTS No.
X.
By THOMAS MEEHAN.
THE Origin of Coreless Apples.
There are apple trees whicli have occasionally apetalous flowers and bear fruit which is as popularly stated coreless.
The precise morphology of this condition has never been explained.
Recently some specimens were presented to the Academy by Mr. Anchutz of Arch Street Philadelphia from a tree growing on the grounds of Captain F. J. Williams in PleasantsCo. West Virginia.
Though bearing fruit abundantly every year it never had lieen known to have a blossom that is to say petals.
The corrugated appearance of the apex of the apple suggested the course of growth which results in the navel varieties of orange explained in Proceedings of the Academy July 25 189o p. 292 and an examination showed that a similar explanation applies to the apple as well as the orange.
The ordinary apple is simply an arrested branch in which the leaves with the axis have been transformed into the succulent or carpellary structures FiK.
1.
Fig 2. which go to make up the fruit.
But in these coreless apples the growthwave resulting in the production of fruit did not become so fully arrested but made a renewed though weaker rhythm.
This was sufficient to draw nutrition from the original fruiting wave and perhaps interfere with its proper pollination thus permitting the formation of an upper carpellary system  weak certainly but sufficiently well situated to secure pollen and produce a few very small seeds in the upper section.
The illustrations explain the process ly which this coreless condition is brought about.
Fig.
1 gives an external view of the apex of the apple.
In the ordinary apple we havs the dry remains of five small sepals in this we have three series of five alternating with each other in a perfectly normal manner.
The interior series of five are quite fleshy and as they are evidently the aical portions of the five sectional protuberances in the apple we may safely conclude that it is this series which has chiefly aided in the development of the fleshy portion of the fruit.
It should have been the matrix of the petals in the normal apple and we may infer that in this fruit as we generally have it with the calycine and petaliferous verticils combined it is the inner or petal bearing series that gives the apple its chief succulency.
In the normal apple the cariellary structure commences at a Fig.
2 but in this case by the imperfectly arrested growth of the axis it has been carried up to b  and even then not wholly brought to rest as it has made another step c resulting finally in a small system capable at least of seedlearing though having lost most of its power to give succulence to its calycine series.
We may say that a coreless apple is morphologically speaking but a restless attempt on the part of the tree to develop several carpellary systems instead of confining itself to the perfection of one as in ordinary cases.
This phenomen is not unusual in plants.
The rose a near relative of the apple is not infrequently seen with another small rose growing from its centre the explanation being of the same character as here given for the apple.
It may be tersely stated that navel oranges and coreless apples are feeble attempts at proliferation.
The Relations Between Insects and the Flowers of ImPATIENS Ft'LVA.
Along a small stream on my grounds masses of Lnpatlens fit ha abound growing in great luxuriance.
The humming bird visits the flowers as freely as various insects.
I frctjuently amuse myself by standing perfectly still in the midst of a uass of flowers and have these little creatures iest on my shoulder or even on my hand when I kept it still above the flowers.
While thus enjoying myself I have been led to note many items of interest worth recording.
Variations in species are often referred to the visits of insects.
They bring pollen from other Howers and intermediate forms necessarily result.
Quite early in the modern discussions of this subject' I showed that variation must first occur and that the insect visitor was rather a conservative agent than a factor in variation  bringing back towards the original that which had departed.
I have published many papers showing that variation is at least as great in monotypic species as where there are numerous closely related species or varieties to cross with.
Iwpatieiis fiilra is another illustration.
It is not necessary to recount the character of the variations.
One may fairly say that no one character can be named that does not show variation in some individuals.
Even the glaucous leaves are sometimes bright green at others almost silvery.
The flowers not only vary in color and markings but the several parts of the flowers are changeable.
The spur particularly is sometimes of remarkable lengtli at others well warranting the remark of Dr. Gray spur rarely wanting.
Aside from the fact that there is no other species near to get any aid to variation in that way many of the colonies on my grounds are from last years' seeds.
The observations on tliis plant confirm records I have made during the past quarter of a century that there is an innate power to vary coexistant with the species itself independent of any conditions of environment.
This may be granted without prejudice to the proposition tliat changes can and do occur at times by tiie influence of environment for which there is abundant evidence.
It seems proper to present the strong facts on the former side because of the modern tendency to exalt the latter as the prime motor in evolution.
The amount of nectar secreted at the base of the spur is considerable.
By cutting off the apex and stripping down the tube as in milking a globule as large as a pin's head will form at the cut.
A large proportion of flowers especially in the latter part of the season are cleistogeue.
But even in these cleistogamous flowers spurs are formed.
An interesting fact Avas that the nectar formed as freely in the spurs of the cleistogene flowers as in those which we should call normal and fully adapted to insect visitors
Is there any necessary relation between the nectariferous structures of flowers and the visits of insects
The cases in which the relationship appears close are numerous but equally numerous ' On the Agency of Insects in Obstructing Evolution.
Proc.
Ac.
Nat.
Sciences.
1872 pp.
235237. are tlie cases on tlie other side aud this cleistogamoiis case is one.
But ill the normal flowers only a few insects could work to advantage.
The spur of the nectary is incurved and only creatures with a long and flexible tongue could reach the sweet deposits stored mostly at the base of the tube.
In my Flowers aud Ferns of the United States Series II p. 44 1880 Prof. W. W. Bailey is quoted on the authority of a friend of his that the sacs were all perforated by bumble bees.
Numerous species have their sacs perforated in this way and all have been charged even by myself to bumble bees.
Dr. J. H. Schueck of Mount Carmel Illinois suggested to me that this is probably a mistake and that species of Xylocopa carpenterbees and not Bombiis are responsible for this act.
Watching these flowers I found the slits were made by a wasp Vespa maculata that some species of Xylocopa and also the honey bee took advantage of the work of the wasp but the only species of lumble bee I noticed W'orking on the flowers Bombiis Pennsylvanicns entered the flower every time by the flower's mouth and got the nectar from the curved spurs as best it could.
Properly speaking the openings made by the hornet are not slits but rough openings chewed out.
The slits proper appeared to have been made by the small carpenter bees.
It is evident that in view of the many insects these flowers support no advantage is received by the flowers in return.
The relation of Bomhus to fertilization was next examined.
The longitudinal streak of white pollen on the back of the visitingbee gave it a picturesque appearance.
That he could carry pollen from one flower to the other was very apparent.
It seems impossible for the visiting bee to reach the stigma as these are protected by conuivent scales under the anthers which form a close cap covering the stigma.
Usually the earlier petaliferous flowers are infertile.
In these plants early in August numerous flowers had perfected fruit though the great majority were infertile.
In what manner did the bee or the humming bird aid in the pollination
Examining a number of flowers after these creatures had retired I was satisfied that they did not aid in any way.
I have had evidence in other cases that where sufficient moisture exists pollen tubes can reach the stigma without actual contact witli it.
There is abundant nioisture around the stigma and it is not improbable that the pollen tubes by the aid of this moisture pass over the membranous border in many cases to reacli the stigma and effect fertilization.
The positive fact gained by these observations is that neither humming birds nor bumble bees in any way aid in pollenizing the petalbearing flowers.
They are as absolutely selffertile as the apetalous cleistogene ones.
An especially interesting olservation was the existence of many plants bearing wholly cleistogene flowers among the normal petalbearing ones.
These plants wei'e not as tall or vigorous as the petalbearers and could be readily distinguished from a distance by a yellowishgreen tint indicative of imperfect nutrition.
It had been before suggested to me by an incidental remark of Mr. Willis in the Proceedings of the Cambridge England Philosophical Society that in some unexplained way there is a relation between imperfect nutrition and cleistogamy  a point which this observation confirms.
The sum of these observations is that in Lnpat let s fidvav arhxtion is innate and not dependent on environment that bright color and sweet secretions have no relation to the visits of insects that the petalbearing flowers are selffertile and that cleistogamy is the result of impaired nutrition rather than of any mere laborsaving iuHueuce.
Apetalism and seed Propulsion in Lamium purpureum.
Lam ill 11 purpureinn a wellknown European species is somewhat common as a weed on my grounds at Germantown near Philadelphia.
It exists in two forms one with small pale lilac flowers the other with flowers more rosy and larger.
While examining the flowers witii u lens to trace any difference that might exist I was surprised to have my face peppered by the seeds which had been expelled from the calyx with considerable force.
Examining plants with an abundance of seed vessels it was seen that most of the calices were empty though still comparatively erect.
The seeds or properly nutlets could not easily have fallen out and doubtless propulsion is the usual method by which they are distributed.
Examining plants in the early part of July I found large numbers of the upper flowers apetalous.
The calyx was perfect the stamens were of the usual length and the anthers profusely laden with ollen  the pistil seemed in every respect perfect but not the slightest trace of corolla existed.
The stamens normally borne on the 5 corolla were now wholly iudependeat of each other and hypogynons.
This is probably the first case of apetalisni recorded in Labiatie.
Fruiting of Robinia hispida.
In descriptions of Robinia hinplda no reference is made to the legumes.
In cultivation they are not known ever to be fox'med.
The writer has searched for them in his botanical collectings in Tennessee without finding any and it is a general belief that they are rarely produced when the plant is growing either in a wild or cultivated state.
Mr. David F. Day of Buffalo New York notices that the anthers are destitute of iollen in the flowers he examined from cultivated jilants in that region a condition often found in most plants of Lafhynis jramllfioius and some other Leguminose plants.
In an excursion around Linville North Carolina in July 1893 Mr. C. F. Saunders of Philadelphia found a number fruiting some specimens of which have been deposited in the Herbarium of the Academy and in the Royal Herbarium at Kew.
The Vitality of Seeds.
Antirrhinum glcuidaloinn.
Exact facts in regard to the power of seeds shortlived under ordinaiy circumstances to retain vitality when deeply imbedded in the earth or under some other specific 'inditions are not numerous.
Hence many controversies occur between the  practical man  who Aow they will live an indefinite time and the man of  science who as firmly believes they will not.
The writer of this has frequently been among the doubting ones simply because the facts adduced for long vital power could bear other interpretations.
Ten years ago his friend the late Dr. C. C. Parry gave him some California seeds.
Antirrhinum glandalosum was raised from them.
The following year the plot was required for buildings and covered with earth from the cellar several feet deep.
No jlant of it has to a certainty been there since until this season when the earth in one spot being turned up a few feet in depth one plant came up and flowered.
Dimorphic Flowers in Labiatte.
Dracocephtdiim nidaiis.
 I have shown in various papers that a tendency to dioecism is not uncommon in Ldhiattc.
Another addition Meehan's Monthly TIT p. 118.
1894.
NATL'KAl.
SCIKNCES OF PHIJ.ADEI.PHIA.
59 to the list is Dracocephalnm nutans a European plant which has many individuals with all the anthers sterile.
The plants which bear the highly polliniferous anthers are much larger and more showy that what may be called the female flowering plants a fact I have noted in other dimorphic species.
Some European works have noted a mixture of species or marked varieties of this plant in a wild state.
The dimorphic character is the probable explanation.
Apetalism in Sisymbrium Thaliana.
Apetalism is not common in Crucifene.
I have noted tendency in this direction in Cakile and in Raphanus.
Early in the present season 1893 the plant being a common weed in my garden I found apetalous flowers very common.
Numerous instances of flowers with only one two or three petals were also observed.
Later in the season there was seldom found any variation from the normal condition.
No difference in strength position or any other condition could be observed that would satisfactorilv account for the abortion.
