DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW SUBGENUS AND NEW SPECIES OF ARVICOLINE RODENTS FROM BRITISH COLUMBIA AND WASHINGTON.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
Tetramerodon' siibgen.
nov.
Type Arvicola ( Tetrai?ifrodoii) tchamcrtis Rlioads, sp.
nov., Victoria, B. C. Sahgeneiic characters.
— Dentition as in the subgenus Myuomes Rafinesque'^ as restricted by Dr. Coues-(Mon.
N. Ainer.
Rodentia, 1877, p. 153), but differing therefrom in the middle upper mohir lacking a [)OStero-internal trianglar loop.
This tooth is composed of an anterior loop, a closed antero-extei'ior triangle, a closed median inner triangle, and a postero-exterior triangle.
Other characters as in Mynomes.
See, below, dentition of A. borealis, Fig.
1.
This section of the genus Arvlcola includes a larger number of species than any other, whereas typical Mynomes is restricted to very few.
Among those which class under Telramerodon may be mentioned A. xatdJiogiiathus, chvoiorrhinus, borealis, loiu/icaiidus, altieolas, mogollonensls, mordax, nanus, macropus, pauperrinius, townsendi, tetramerus (1. c. ), edax, pJueus, and operarius.
Of Mynomes we have A. pemisylvanicus, terrcenovoi, aztecus, and drummondii f Prof. Baird characterized the subgenus Hemiotomys (= Myonomes of Coues) as having the middle " upper molar with five closed triangles, the last two sometimes subconfiuent," taking no notice of the species then known, as edax, town send i, xantJiognathas, and borealis, in which, to a greater or less degree, the posterior triangle shows no indication of the subdivision seen in ^4.
pennsylvanicus.
The four-triangled species greatly outnumber those which possess five, and it is fully in accord with the system that they should be either separated subgenerically from Alynomes or that this subgenus be recharacterized.
1 From Teframe^-es -^ {ouv-piivtt'd, iiud Odoiis = toi)th.
''■ Dr. Coues' reasons for changing Ratiuesqiie's original spelling to Myoiio)nes are insufficient.
If retained at all, it must remain Mynomes.
1894.]
NATHRAL SCIENCES OF PHII>ADELPHIA.
283 If the latter course be adopted, we still have an inexact diagnosis to accommodate the three or four exceptional species which develop the fifth triangle, and the name 3Iijiwme.% based by Rafinesque on a five-triaugled species, becomes inapplicable.
On this account, it seems to me quite consistent with the exact subdivision of the other members of the genus Arvkola, as well as necessary, that the subgenus Tefnonerodon be adopted.
Arvicola (Tetrainerodon) tetramerus sp.
nov.
Type Xo.
3-27, ad., ^ , Coll.
of S. X. Ehoads, Beacon Hill Park, Victoria, British Columbia, Mav 19, 1892.
Coll.
by S. X. R. Desen'ption.
— Size medium, about the same as A. pe)insi/lvcmicus.
Tail rather long.
Color above, grizzled blackish-brown, beneath clear ash.
Feet grayish-brown.
Tail bicolor, matching corresponding surfaces of body, well-haired and penicillate.
Dentition as in Mi/novie.^, but lacking the posterior fifth section of middle upj^er molar, typical of that subgenus.
Measurements (of type).
— Total length, 170 mm; tail vertebrae, 50; hind foot, 23.
Average of five adults — Total, 175; tail, 48; foot, 22.
Skull — Total length, 26-5; basilar length, 24; zygomatic breadth, 15; length of nasals, 7-5; incisors to postpalatal notch, 14-2; interorbital constriction, 3-4; length of mandible, 16; width of mandible, 8-5.
Ten specimens of this species were taken in the suburbs of Victoria, in the dry, grassy woods of Beacon Hill Park, overlooking the Strait of Fuca.
They most nearly resemble townsendi from Puget Sound in essential characters.
Compared with toivnseiidi the Victoria voles may be readily distinguished by their much smaller size, blacker coloration above, the greater relative width of the interorbital region, the supraorbital ridges never meeting medially as in old towii.-tendl, and the posterior margins of the frontals being rounded and but slightly encroaching upon the parietals.
This species differs essentially from A. occidentalis and A. californicus as defined by Baird in its lack of red or yellow tints.
From A. montaiius Peale (fide Baird) tetramerus differs in the greater relative length between the upper molars and incisors, also in the posterior upper molar having four outer, salient angles instead of three.
Prof. Baird states there is a great similarity between the colors of montanns and edax and that the former is grayer than townsendi.
In tetramerus the colors are much darker.
Evotomys pygmseus sp.
nov.
Type Xo.
247, ad.
9, (Wl, of S. N. Rhoads, montli of Xisqually Eiver, Pierce Co., Wasliington.
Col. by S. N. R. Description.
— Size smallest of any described species of the genus.
Color above a rusty gray, lighter than c/cqjperi, dai'kei^t along the top of head and back ; sides and belly muddy ash-gray.
Margins of ears and upper third of tail sooty.
Feet light gray.
Skull short and wide, with relatively wide and flaring zygoma and brain case and broad interorbital region.
The audital bulUie are very much inflated, spheroidal, separated medially by less than 1 mm.
, their greatest transverse diameter being only 1 mm.
less than the longitudinal.
The dentition is intermediate between that of E. orcideiitalis and JE.
californium, with the anterior lower molar of califomicus and the posterior upper molar of occidentalls.
In the latter case, however, the two anterior lateral triangles are completely closed in jyygmmiis, the second not connecting with the third as figured by Dr. Merriam^ for occidentalis.
The nasals do not i*each the posterior points of the premaxillai'ies by li mm.
MeasnremenU.
— Total length, 120 mm; tail vertebrse, 34; hind foot, 16.
Skull — Total length, 21 ; l)asilar length, 18'4; zygomatic width, 12; length of nasals, 6; incisors to post-palatal notch, 9; interorbital constriction, 4-1 ; length of mandible, 12.
The single specimen on which I have based the above diagnosis is the only one of the genus secured by me in the Pacific coast district of the northwest.
It was captured under a log in the dense spruce forest which covers the blufi' overlooking Puget Sound, at the mouth of the Nisqually River.
It is fully adult, with well-worn teeth.
This species may be known externally from its nearest geographic congeners by its small size.
In color it is much lighter than occidentalis, and (from the description) even paler than californicus.
Evotomys gapperi saturatus sulwp.
nov.
Type No.
483, ad.
9. foil, of S. N. Rhoads, Nelson, British C'oluinbia, Aug. 17, 1892.
Col. by S. N. R. Description.
— Size and proportions of E. gapperi, but much darker, the " red" of back being dark chestnut, the sides and belly dark grayishplumbeous without ochraceous tints of gapperi.
The upper half of tail sooty black, strongly defined against gray of lower half.
Compared with that of gapperi, the skull is relatively narrower, the nasals longer, the nasal premaxillary processes reach' N. Amer.
Fau., No.
4, Plate II, Figs.
1 and 2.
1894.]
NATURAI^ SCIENCES OF PHILADEI^PHIA.
285 ing considerably behind base of nasals; the audital bullae are also narrower, elonuate, and depressed.
The dentition does not ditter from that of gapperi, but the other characters of the skull of type, as above defined, show such considerable differences from gapperi of eastern Canada that the question of its specific value is yet an open one.
Measurements.
— Total length, 141 mm; tail vertebrre, 41; hind foot, 19.
Skull— Total length, 23-o; zygomatic width, 12-1; length of nasals, 6*5; incisors to post-palatal notch, 10; interorbital constriction, 4-2; length of mandible, 18-2; width of mandible, (r2.
One female (the type) was trapped on the banks of a small stream flowing into Kootenai Lake, in the town limits of Nelson, in the Selkirk Mountains.
Two others were taken in the Rocky jNIouutains, at Field, on the banks of the Kicking Horse River.
Evotomys [^gapperil daicsoiii Merriam, the west Arctic representative, differs from saturatus in the opposite light phase of coloration, a parallel case to that exhibited by the Hudsonian Chickadees, Paras hudsonicKS, P. h. stoneyi, and P. h. columbianus.
Notes on Boreal Arvicolas of Uncertain Status.
Arvicola borealis Richardson.
Rich., Zool.
.Tour., No.
12, is^s, .517 ; Faun.
Bor.
Anu-r., I, 1839.
127.
And.
and Bach., Quad, N.
Amer., 1854, 134.
Since the publication of the Monograph of North American Rodentia, this species has been classed, on the authority of Dr. Coues, as a subspecies of Arvicola j3ennsylvanicus.
Several specimens from the material examined by Dr. Coues in the preparation of his monograph of the Arvicoliiue were subsequently presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Among them I find two skins with skulls and one specimen in alcohol enumerated in Dr. Coues' tabulated lists of Arctic Arvicolas, which, after a careful study of Richardson's two descriptions of A. borealis, I am convinced should be referred to that species.
The characters exhibited by these specimens are those of an animal quite distinct from pennsylvanicus and justify restoring borealis to the full specific rank originally given it.
Audubon and Bachman (sup.
cit.)
have clearly restated the external characters of this vole from a personal examination of Richardson's types.
Its cranial characters remain undefined, and may be described as follow : — 286 [1894.
Arvicola borealis.
Toimtype, No.
1,908, ad.
9, Coll.
of Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Phila.
(No.
S,4(»8, Sm.
Inst.
: vid.
Cones, N. A.
Eod., p. 206, t. li).
Fort Anderson, North of Great Bear Lake (no date), E. McFarlane, Collector.
Skidl.
— Remarkably angular, shallow and flattened, its anterior jugal breadth exceeding the squamosal, much as in Synaptomys.
Posterior ends of frontals produced in ii long, slender, strapshaped process, beginning just behind the interorbital constriction, between the projecting anterior corners of the squamosal bones and terminating in a dove-tailed Fig.
I. Skull and molar teeth of process between the acutely pointAiz'icola dorca/is Rk'h.
■, i , i i , • ^ TT«„„,.
r.^^fi 1^ e ■ 4 / T +■+ ed and extended anterior corners a.
Upper pronle ot cranium.
* />.
Lett mandibular series.
c. Left maxillary of the parietals.
Interorbital ^^"*?
*^constriction narrow, acutely compressed, its single median ridge depressed below the frontal plane.
Audital bulhe subtriangular, depressed, long and narrow.
Dentition as given (1. c.) for the subgenus Tetramerodon, of which, with A. xanthogiiafhus and A. chrotorrhinus, it forms a typical representative in the lack of any attempt at a posterior inner fold, or angle, in the middle upper molar.
The anterior trefoil of the first lower molar is less deeply indented than in any Arvicola I have examined.
The mandibles present no peculiar characters.
An incipient groove can be detected, almost evenly dividing the face of each upper incisor.
Arvicola drummoudi Aud.
and Bach.
Five specimens of meadow mice, three taken on the shores of Lac La Hache, B.
C, and two from the valley of the Kicking Horse River, at Field, B.
C, I had {n-eviously described in manuscript as new, under the name Arvicola {Mynomes) microcephalus.
The description of A. driimmondi (Aud.
and Bach., Quad.
N.
Anier., 1854, 166) I have since found to correspond so closely in every particular with the characters of these specimens, it seems far preferable to make tiiem the basis of a full restoration of driimAbout one and one-half times natural size.
mondi to a place in nomeuclature.
It may lie stated that Richardsou's A. novebonicen^ls (Raf.
), the name under which that author described the type of flntmmondi was said by him to have come from the dry uphmds of tlie Rocky Mountains inhabited by A.
.noithognathus.
This woukl indicate a locality far north of that from which ray specimens came, also a less aquatic environment, and a somewhat ditierent faunal region.
Audubon and Bachman give, * ' Valleys of the Rocky Mountains," as the habitat of dnonmondi.
More complete collections from the whole length of the intermediate country may show that the Lac La Hache animal is separable from the northern one ; in such an event the name microcephahis may still be applicable to it.
Arvicola (Mynomes) drummondi.
Topotype Xo.
418, arl.
^.
Coll.
of S. X. Elioads; Lac La llacbe, B. Columbia, Juuc 30th, 1892.
Vol.
})y S. N. E. Description.
— Size considerably less than that of A. pennsijlvanicus; ears moderate ; tail short and scantily haired ; skull small, highly arched, compressed and elongate, the orbits much narrowed liy the compression of the zygoma ; eyes very small, as in Pitymys ; feet as originally described by Richardson.
Teeth of typical Mynomes, the postero-internal section of middle upper molars as large as its opposing outer triangle.
Color above grizzled black-brown, beneath a clear hoary plumbeous, lacking the muddy wash mentioned by Aud.
and Bach.
Tail sooty above, grayer beneath.
Measurements.
— Total length, 155 mm; tail vertebrae, 40; hind foot, 20 (average of four adults — Total, 153 ; tail, 39; foot, 19).
►Skull — Total length, 24-2 ; Jia-silar length, 22 ; zygomatic width, 13-5; length of nasals, 6-6; incisor to post-palatal notch, 12-2; interorbiial constriction, 4 ; length of mandible, 14-8; width of mandible, 8-2.
This species resembles A. nanus,^ but its possession of a five triangled middle upper molar distinguishes it from that species, which, as Dr. Merriam expressly states, has but four triangles.
The two specimens from Field show no differences from the one above described.
Incidental to this rather cursory study of the principal group of North American Arvicolince it is worthy of mention that the large vole captured by Mr. Drummond " at the foot of the Rocky Moun' Merriam, N. Amer.
Fau., No.
5, 1891, 63. tains," and described minutely by Richardson (Fan.
Bor.
Amer.
, 1829, 120), under caption of "Arvicola riparins (Ord?
)," is almost certainly a member of the genus Aidaeomijs.^ A comparison of the description of this animal given by Richardson and that given by Audul)on and Bachman,' when they renamed it A. richirdsoni, with my type of Aviacomys arvicoloides, leaves very little room for doubt that the two are generically the same.
Their specific differences consist in the much longer tail of arvlcololde><, its tail also being black above and nearly unicolor, its feet black, and the mouth and chops grayish-brown, like the surrounding parts.
An examination of Richardson's introductory notice of Mr. Drummond's travels, coupled with the statement that the specimen was taken in summer, fix the type locality of A. richardtionl within, say, fifty milffe of Athabasca Pass in the Rocky Mountains, among the foothills traversed by the Columbia Portage trail connecting the head waters of the Athabasca, Saskatchewan, and Columbia Rivers, in latitude 53°.
^4.
arvicoloides was taken somewhat east of the dividing ridge of the Cascade Mountains in latitude 47°.
Should the correctness of this interpretation be proved, Drummond's specimen should stand as Axdacomys richardsonl (Dekay).
** « Ehoads, Amer.
Nat., Feb. 1894, 182. '
Quad.
N.
Amer., Ill, 1853, 163. s N. Y.
Zool., I, 1842.
91.
October 2.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Fifty-four persons present.
A paper entitled "A proposed Classification of the Fossorial Hymenoptera of North America," by William J.
Fox, was presented for publication.
October 9.
Mr. Useljia C. Smith in the Chair.
Thirtytwo persons present.
The deaths of Joseph Hyrtl and Oliver Wendell Holmes, M.D., correspondents, were announced.
A paper entitled ' ' A Study of the Systematic and Geographical Distribution of the Decapod Family Atyidoc Kingsley," by Dr. A. Ortmann, was presented for publicatiou.
October 16.
Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair.
Sixty-six persons present.
A paper entitled " New Species of Fungi from various Localities," by J.
B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart, was presented for publication.
Dlaoluea Tliomasll Rex.
— Du.
Geo.
A. Rex presented specimens of Diachcea Thomasii, a species of Jtlyxomycetes recently described by him, and commented upon the variations of the species and its relations to the adjoining genera.
The specimen's differed in some respects from the original specimens from which the diagnostic description had been drawn, making it advisable to supplement that description.
The new specimens were a part of some recent gatherings made by ^Ir.
Lancaster Thomas at the original locality for the species at Cranberry, N. C, in July and August of this j^ear.
The sporangia of the type specimens were frequently grouped in clusters, but with rare exceptions they grew upon separate stipes.
20 In the receut gatherings, however, the sporangia show a reniarkalile tendency to aggregation into clumps of from twelve to twenty, the stipes growing together to form a thick compound stipe surmounted by the densely clustered sporangia.
In some cases these are distorted by crowding, having their adjoining walls grown together, constituting stipitate iethalia.
The clustered sporangia have usually a purplish metallic lustre rather than the silver or bronze lustre of the single forms.
The capillitium differs from the type only in the presence of au extraordinary number of snudl dark-violet colored bulbous thickeniugs occurring upon the threads in their course, similar to those found in the capillitium of certain species of DUhpnimii and Ghoiidrioderiiia.
These thickenings are ellipsoidal, turbinate or conical in shape and occur more frequently near the ends of the threads.
The speaker thought that these peculiar tliickenings were of special interest on account of their bearing upon the relative position of the genus DiacJuen in the systematic classification of the JNIyxomycetes.
As they are almost exclusively found in certain species of the Didymiaceie and the single species of the genus Sjniinafla, this species at least, of the genus Diaclura would seem to be connected with the CalcareiL' by good structural characters other than the mere existence of granules of lime in the stipes and columellas of the sporangia.
The bulbous thickenings were also found in the capillitium of the type specimens but not conspicuously, or to a greater extent tlian they are sometimes found in the other species of Dlarhaa.
The speaker concluded that the genus DiacJicca was properly associated with the Order Didymiaceie (including the genus *S)j/(»(orm) notwithstanding its points of resemblance to the genus Lamproderma suggesting its possibly closer relationship to the Order Stemonitacea'.
The differences between the present gatherings and the former ones were probably due to climatic causes, the excessive rainfall and great atmospheric humidity prevailing in the North Carolina mountains during July and tiie early part of August of the present year, causing an exuberant development of plasmodium wliich resulted in a growtli of unusually" aggregated and icthalioid forms October 28.
Dr. 0.
N. Tkirck in the Chair.
Twenty-five persons present.
A paper entitled "Notes on the Mammals of Monroe and Pike Counties, Pennsylvania," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for {)ublication.
The death of F. Oden Horstmann, a member, was announced.
1894.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
291 October 30.
Mk.
Charles P. Perot in the Chair.
Thiit\'-three persons present.
Thedeath of William Ik.
Lejee, a men)l)er, was announced, A paper entitled "On a Collection of Batrachia and Reptilia from the Island of Hawaii," by Edw.
I).
Cope, was presented for publication.
Mr. Horace Binder was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed: —
