A PROPOSED CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSORIAL HYMENOPTERA OF NORTH AMERICA.
BY VILLIAM J.
FOX.
The arrangement of our Fossores contained in the following pages I trust will be of some service to students of these insects.
It has been evident for some time that the existing arrangement that contained in Cresson's Synopsis is of little value as it is too superficial.
Entirely too many families without characters to substantiate them were recognized  the Sphegidie for instance which were divided into no less than nine families.
Accepting these nine families would it seems to me necessitate tlie erection of families for such genera as Neolarra BotJujnostdltus Trypoxylon and others which stand more or less isolated and yet possess characters which connect them in one wa' or another with the formerly existing families and would form more distinct families were they so recognized than say the Mellinidas Ampulicide Nyssonide or Bembicidie.
How these nine supposed families have been disposed of the following pages will show.
Saussure's recent classification'is not satisfactory inasmuch as it is incomplete and moreover his conclusions particularly regarding the Pompilidte are not well founded.
He makes two tribes of this family the Pompiliens and Pepsiens separating them on a very trivial character  the position of insertion of the first recurrent nervure in the second submarginal cell a character which in my experience has always proved variable.
Under the first mentioned tribe he includes Cerojiales which he seems to consider as not worthy of more than generic rank while he forms a tribe for the reception of Pepsis which should be placed with the Pompiliens if anywhere.
The Mutillidre and Sapygidoc are considered as subfamilies of the Scoliidse these are ranked as families in this paper.
The old families Pemphredonida and Crabronidtc and Oxijhelus he considers as tribes of equal value to the Nyssonidse Bembicidie and Larridte 1 Mr. Cresson states that this was simply compiled from the works of other authors.
 Grandidier's Hist.
Madagascar XX.
all of which are ranked as tribes of the Sphegidae.
The two families mentioned and Oxijbelus are treated as subfamilies in this paper as they are more distinct than are the numerous tribes of the Bembicime and Sphegiuiie.
It is hoped that the paper may at least call forth improvements on the classification suogested.
5i5 MUTILLID.
I regard this as a welldefined famil disagreeing with some authors who place it as a subfamily of the Scoliidte.
The wingless females are in my ojnnion sufficient to separate these insects from the Scoliidiv.
In the latter family the intermediate coxe are widely separated while in the Mutillidaj they are not separated by a distance equalling their width.
In the generic table below Plwtopsis Elake is considered as synonymous with Sphairophtlialma Blake as a comparison of the two genera fails to show any differential characters.
The family can be separated into two tribes as follows  Females as far as known .without ocelli marginal cell of  J  wings more or less short not reaching by any means the apex of Aving  some of the nervures generally obsolete particularly those forming the third discoidal cell MUTILLINI.
Females with ocelli marginal cell of 
wings long and pointed reaching almost the apex of wings all the nervures distinct never obsolete MYllMOSINl.
Tribe I. MUTILLIXI.
.
Contains the genera Psammotherma Mat'dla Spliaerophthahna   Photopsls m it.
 Brachycidis and Chyphotes and is defined as above.
The genera may be tabulated as follows  1  Antennae simple in both sexes 2 Antennae of male flabellate Psammotherma Latr.
2  'Eyes ovate emarginate w'ithin the   entire in 9  thorax of 9 generally oblong in shape truncate behind.
Muiilla Linn6.
Ejes round entire thorax generally ovate rounded posteriorly 3 3  Intermediate tibite w ith two apical spurs 4 Intermediate tibisy with but one apical spur w ing stigma very large body smooth glabrous marginal cell usually shorter than stigma autennfu longer than head and thorax Brachycistis Fox.
 Probably does not occur in America the species described being very likely erroneously reported from Florida.
4  Abdomen at most subpetiolate thorax of 9 divided into more than two parts bodj at least the thorax coarsely seulptnred.
2 Sl'T13K01MI'rHALMA Bl.
Abdomen connected by a long slender petiole thorax 9 divided into two distinct parts only  unknown.
4.
'IIVI'IIOTES BI.
Trile II. MYRMOSINI.
Proposed for the genera Mijrutom and Mefliocn and is characterized chiefly by the females jiossessing distinct ocelli.
Ihit few species have been described from America.
Apex of abdo7Ben J I unarmed wings with three snbmargiual cells '' cubital nervure of hind w iiigs received by the submedian cell at apex thorax J coin posed apparently of two parts body rugose  9  Myrmosa Latr.
Aex of abdomen   
armed with a curved spine two submarginal cells cubital nervure of hind wings received considerably before the apex of submedian cell thorax 9 divided into three parts body smooth shining and very antlike.
rKTiiocA Ijatr.
If the genus Thyiuius occurs in America as reported by Patton Ent.
News III 104 another trile will have to be added to this family.
I doult liowever the existence of American representatives.
SCOLIIDJE.
This family is sufficiently characterized by both sexes being winged to separate it from the iMutillida.
The North American representatives comprise three tribes as follows  Ejes emargjnate spur of fore tiliijc large strongly curved dilated and truncate at end intermediate tibiie w ith one spur abdomen of  armed with three spines at apex SCOLIINI.
Eyes entire  spur of fore tarsi not much curved or dilated either pointed or bifurcate at end  intenuediate tibijc witli one or two spurs abdomen of  with but one spine at apex.
Sexes similar in form  marginal cell broadened toward the base in our genera the 9 ' have tlie marginal cell open at apex  antenme short in both sexes TYPHllNl.
 This may ultimately prove but a division or sulyenus of Jlfni7Ia.
 There are really four snbuiarjinals as the cubital ncr ure extends out to the apex of wing.
8 After Saussure.
8exes dissimilar in form  9 robust J loug aud slender  marginal cell  9  narrowed toward base in our genera the marginal cell is always closed antennaj in 9 sbort in  long and slender as long or longer than head and thorax MYZIINr Yesu7es Sauss.
Tribe T. tCOLIINI.
Two genera occur in our fauna as follows  Anterior wings with only one recurrent nervure .... Scolia Fabr.
Anterior wings with two recurrent nervures Elis Fabr.
Each of these genera may be divided into subgenera by the number of submarginal cells.
In the subgenus Triscolia there are three cells while in DcoUii there are two.
In Trielis three in Dielis two.
Tribe II. TIPHIINI.
The lirst and second submarginal cells merged into one through the disappearance of the first transversocubital nervure  base of tirst aljdominal segment produced angularly or dentate on each side intermediate tibite with one spur Tiphia Fabr.
Three submarginal cells the first transversocubital nervure present but abbreviated not reaching the cubital nervure base of first abdominal segment not produced or dentate at base  intermediate tibife with two spurs EPOMIDIOPTERONSichel  Pr '.
Trie III. MYZININI.
This trile is identical with Saussure's Section des Plesiites. 
Plesta seems to be synonymous with Mijzlne Latr.
The latter has priority being described two years in advance of Plesia.
But one genus Mizine is found in America which may be distinguished by the tribal characters given above.
SAPYGID.
Intermediate coxi3e contiguous  legs except tibial spurs unarmed  no pygidiul area  apex of   
abdomen without spines.
These characters seem sufficient to keep these insects distinct from the preceding family to which they have been assigned by some authors and moreover the first and second ventral segments are contiguous while in the Scoliidie they are widely separated.
Sapijya our only genus has the eyes emarginate within the intermediate tibiie with two spurs.
For several species having the vertex tuberculate the name Eusapyga has been proposed bj Cresson but these form only a subgenus at the most.
POMPILIDJE.
This is a distinct family characterized by the very long posterior legs long antenujB and by the first and second ventral segments being not widely separated.
The species possess no pygidium.
I would separate the fiimily into three tribes placing the Ceropalini first as I consider the genus Ceropales as being closest to the Sapygidas.
Sting sheath of 9 projecting prominent  eyes slightly emarginate within near the top labrum large projecting  autennpe never curled after death situated well above the clypeus '.
CEROPALINI.
Sting sheath of 9 not projecting  eyes entire.
First discoidal cell not longer than first submarginal  submedian cell of anterior wings longer than the median on the externomedian nervure  second discoidal cell not half the size of the third labrum exserted longer than the clypeus abdomen compressed apically NOTOCYPHlNI.
First discoidal cell longer than lirst submarginal  labrum not exserted  length of inedian cell of anterior wings variable second discoidal cell at least half the size of the third abdomen rarely compressed POMPILINI.
Tribe I. CEROPALINI.
This tribe contains but a single genus Ceropales having the characters given above.
The species are always more or less ornamented with yellow some being extremely handsome.
Tribe II. NOTOCYPHlNI.
The genus NotQcyphus constitutes this tribe which differs chiefly from the Ceropalini by the nonexserted sting sheath.
Tribe III. POMPILINI.
The Pompilini contains the tjpical forms of the family and is by far the largest tribe.
Pepsis which Saussure considers as a tribe should in my opinion be placed in the tribe Pompilini as its characters will not warrant a tribal distinction.
Parapompllus Cress non Sm.
 Planiceps Latr. and Ajyorus Spin. seem to be merely groups of the genus Pompilus as has been pointed out by Kohl.''
Epipom Verb zool.bot.
Gesell. Wien XXXIV pp.
3358.
3ilus Kohl is scarcely worthy of generic distinction and should be treated as of equal value as Parapompilus Cress.
1  Anterior wings with three subiuarginal cells 2 Anterior wings with two submarginal cells 9 2  Third ventral segment with a transverse furrow indistinct in the  of some species 3 Third ventral segment without a transverse furrow 6 3  First recurrent uervure received by the second submarginal cell in or about the middle.
Hind tarsi  not flattened .... 4 First recurrent nervure received by the second submarginal cell not far from its base and considerably before its middle.
Hind tarsi    flattened.
Fifth or fifth and sixth ventral segments  S nearly always with long stiff hair often forming two tufts.
ISIetathorax with a more or less developed tubercle before each stigma Pepsis Fabr.
4  Hind tibiie not spinose or scarcely so submedian cell of fore wings generally but slightly longer than the median on the externomedial uervure 6 Hind tibice more or less spinose generally serrato spinose most strongly so in the 9 5 o  Submedian cell of fore wings longer than the median on the externomedial nervure.
.
.
.
Salius Fabr.
 PrioGnerais Sch..
Submedian cell of fore wings of the same length as the median on the externomedial nervure eyes converging somewhat towards the vertex Calicurgus Lep.
' 6  MaxilltB of 9 with a bunch of long hair at the base  Agenia' Schiodte Maxillse of 9 naked Pseudagenia' Kohl.
7  Prothorax shorter than the metathorax 8 Prothorax longer than the metathorax head very flat and transverse the clypeus planate .
PARAPOMPiLrs Cress non Smith.
8  Legs strongly spinose  prothorax on the sides not strongly depressed fore femora not swollen Pompilus Fabr.
Legs except tibial spurs not spinose prothorax strongly depres.sed on the sides fore femora somewhat swollen  .
.
.
.
Epipompiei'S Kohl.
 Second ventral of some authors.
9 I have not seen this genus. '
I can find no characters to separate the 's oi Agenia and Pseudagenia as the characters given by Kohl are not constant.
The size of the second and third submarginal cells varies and while some species of ylgenia have the wings banded in others they are clear.
Of our species of Agenia Cress. cjipidus congruits and accepius are Pseudagenia.
A new genus may have to be erected for A. Belfragei Cress.
Cameron is mistaken in referring A. nubifer viexicanus chloris floridiis auripilis and subvirescens to Pseudagenia as they all have the bunch of hair at base of maxillse.
9 iletathorax posteriorly not eniargiiiute not produced anterior femora swollen their tarsi also rather thick  abdomen subcompressed ri.AXiCEPS Latr.
letathorax iosteriorly strongly emarginate produced on each side into a strong tooth fore femora and tarsi not thickened alidomen not at all compressed Aponrs Spin.
SPHEGID.
I would divide tliis vast family into five subfamilies as follows Spheginte PemphredoniuiTe Bembicinte Oxybelime and Crabroniuic.
I have thought it best to unite under one head the Larridte Bembicidse Nysonida Mellinida and Philanthidte as it is impossible to find characters by which these families socalled can be limited even as subfamilies.
The reader is referred to Handlirsch's paper on Nysson and Bemhex. It may seem out of place to put the FemphredonintTS close to the Sphegina
 yet I feel justified in doing so on account of tlie abdominal petiole which is peculiar to both subfamilies.
Abdomen connected  ith the thorax ly a slender pedicel of variable length and never sessile with the following segment.
Intermediate tibite with two apical spurs claws nearly always more or less dentate within SPHEGINI.
Intermediate tihiic with but one apical spur claws never dentate within PEMPHREDONIN.E.
Abdomen never connected w ith the thorax by a slender pedicel at the most subpetiolate as in Melius. More than one submarginal cell if not then the eyes are emarginate within neuration of posterior wings complete.
BEMBICIN.E.
Onljoue submarginal and two discoidal cells e'es entire.
Metathorax with a long projection'' at base postscutellum with a squama on each side submarginal cell confluent with tirst tfiscoidal cell eyes elongateovate fully three times longer than they are broad medially and converging towards the vertex . 
OXYP.ELIN.E.
Metathorax and postscutellum without spines or squamte  submarginal cell not confluent with the first discoidal cell eyes very broad not more than twice as long as the width of their broadest jiart and strongly diverging towards the vertex.
CRABRONIN.E. ''
Sitzuugsb.
K. K. Akud.
der Wisseii. Wien XCY Abtli.
1.
12 This is variously shaped being sometimes bifurcate and agaiu spinose.
1894.
XATr'HAL SCIENt'ES OF PIIILADKI.PHTA.
299 Subfamily SPIIEGIN.
Represented liy two tribes as follows   Metatliorax uiiarnied never dentate yiHEiINI.
Metathorax armed with two strong teeth .
.
.
.
AMIM'IjICINI.
Tribe T. SPHEGINI.
Three genera belong to this tribe.
They have numerous subgenera or groups of species which at one time were regarded as genera.
Kohl's admirable paper Die Hymenopterengruppe der Spheciden '' will be of much value to the student of this group.
Our genera may be reparated in the following manner  Second submarginal cell receiving but one recurrent uervure 9 with or w ithout tarsal comb Sfhex Linnf'.
Second Bubmarginal cell receiving both nervures.
o without tarsal coml Sceliphkon King.
O with tarsal comb Ammophila King.
As Kohl's work is probably inaccessible to most workers I give here a table of groups of the three genera   Genus SPHEX Linne'.
Second submargiual cell small much higher than liroad.
Claws with a single tooth in middle of inner margin species more or less metallic Gi.
Chlokion.
Claws with lio teeth on inner margin species not metallic.
Last ventral plate  9  compressed almost keeled medially claws bidentate clj'peus produced medially with a deep sinus on each side Gr.
Paemode.s.
Last ventral plate  9  convex not comiiressed claws 25 dentate clypeus entire or emarginate medially .
.
.
Gr.
Harpactopps.
Seccmd submarginal cell as broad as high rhomboidal or rectangular.
Metathorax without stigma
furrow tarsal comb  9  wanting petiole long and generally bowed Gr Isodontia.
Metathorax with exception of aS'.
Lucce with a stigmal furrow tarsal comb 9 present petiole straight Gr.
Spiiex.
Genus SCELIPHRON Klug.
Prothorax longer than the dorsulum.
Head from above not triangular not much produced behind the eyes the prothorax is but little longer than the dorsulum.
Gr.
Podium.
1' Annaleu d. K. K. Xaturliistor.
Hofinuseum Wien V 2o.
2 3.
Head from above triangular greatly produced behind the eyes the prothorax is longer than the dorsukuu soutellum and postscutelluni combined jr. Thigonopsis.
Prothorax not as long at any rate not longer than the dorsuluni ' Gr.
ScEEiPHRON Pelopocus.
Genus AMMOPHILA Kirby.
Wings with two submarginal cells Gr.
'oloptera.
Wings with three submarginal cells.
Second aldominal segment elongate forming with the first segment a long petiole Gr.
Ammophii.a.
Second abdominal segment more or less campanulate the petiole composed of but one joint Jr. Psammophila.
Tribe II. AMPULICINI.
The genus Ampulex is represented in North America by the subgenus Rhinopsls Westw..
It is distinguished by the rostrate clypeus and by having two submarginal cells.
The prothorax is long as in Trigonopsis the metathorax is many ridged and has very strong transverse strife above and possesses two strong teeth.
The first submarginal cell is twice the length of the second.
Marginal cell with an appendiculation at apex.
Subfamily PEMPHREDONIIsT.
The MimesidiB are here considered as representing a tribe of this subfamily and Miinesa Shuck as a synonym of Pseu Latr.
It is impossible to separate these two genera as their characters vary particularly the neuration.
It is true that the inner spur of hind tibicC of Mimesa is peculiarly shaped but this development will be found in Psen although in a lesser degree.
Anterior wings ith three submarginal cells antennte situated far above the clypeus PSENINI.
Anterior wings with two submarginal cells  antenne close to base of clypeus PEMPHIIEUONINI.
Tribe I. PSENINI.
Psen  Miinesa the only genus of this tribe is easily distinguished by the characters given in the above table.
The Psenini further differ from the Pemphredonini bj' the peculiar inner spur of hind tibiie.
Tribe II. PEMPHREDONINI.
The tribe Pemphredonini comprises the greater number of the genera of this subfamil'.
The following table is bafed chiefly on that in Creson's  Synopsis   Anterior wings witli ttiree discoidal cells therefore with two recurrent nervures.
 Abdomen with a tolerably long petiole .
.
.
Pemphredon Latr.
Abdomen with the petiole not longer than the hind coxae.
Posterior tibiae spinose or subserrate  labium emarginate at tip.
' DiouoNTUs Curt.
Posterior tibiae excepting the calearia unarmed  labrura pointed at tip Passalcecus Shuck.
Anterior w ings ith two discoidal cells therefore only one recurrent nervure Anterior wings with one subniarginal cell .
Aimoplanus Giraud.
Anterior wings with two submarginal cells.
Petiole short recurrent nervure joining the first transversocubital nervure Spilomena Shuck.
Petiole long recurrent nervure received in the middle of the llrst submarginal cell Stigmus Jur.
Subfamily BEMBICIJMJE.
Under this head I unite the Larrida Bembicidte Nyssonide Philanthidie and Nlellinidte.
The characters of these supposed families are not sufficient or constant enough to sustain them in such a rank and are valueless in some cases even as characters of minor importance.
As in the case of the Bembicidte it is easy to take such types as Bembex Monedula forms with rostrate clypeus and separate them into a family apparently distinct from the Nyssonidie and Larrida if these genera are compared say with Larra and Nissoi but certain genera will be encountered Xeolavra and Buthynostethus for instance whose proper position will remain undetermined.
Neolarra combines both Larrid Bembicid and Nyssonid characters yet it will fit in neither of the families defined.
Bothijnostethus inclines to both the Larridie and Nyssonide and seems to be a connecting link between them.
Sflzus and Sphecui. although placed in the Bembicidie possesses the neuration and nonrostrate labrum characters which bind them to the Nyssonidie.
It must not be forgotten that the labrum of the Nyssonidre is prominent indeed in Gonjtcs very prominent.
Thirteen tribes of this subfamily seem to be indictated which number will undoubtedly have to be reduced in the future.
 I have not seen Poleinistus Sauss. described as occurring in Madagascar and Mexico.
It is related to Passahxcus and Diodoiitiis.
302 prcepdings of the academy of 1894.
1  Labruin projecting in such a manner aw to cover the mandibles when closed wxmelinies rostriform 4 Labriim projecting more or less'' but not covering the mandibles never rostriform  antennje situated close to or not far fiom base ff clypeus  if the latter is divided into three lobes the middle lobe is not greatly enlarged 2 Labrum not at all projecting hidden from view by mandibles  antenuse situated far above the clypeus  middle lobe of latter greatly enlarged PHILANTHINI.
2  Mandibles emarginate on outer nuirgiu except iu Trypoxylon .
o Mandibles not emarginate o 3 Three submarginal cells intermediate tibiie with two spurs.
Second submarginal cell not petiolate aiical joint of antennae  normal MELLININI.
Second submarginal cell petiolate  apical joint of antenuje    peculiarly shaped NYSSONINI.
Two submarginal cells  intermediate tibie with one spur.
NEOLAKRINI.
4  Intermediate tibia armed with two siurs at apex submedian cell of posterior wings extending far beyond the median on the externomedial nervure labrum shorter than the clypeus generally rounded anteriorly ocelli distinct STIZINI.
Intermediate tibie with but one spur at apex submedian cell of posterior wings not extending beyond the median on the externomedial nervure labrum longer than the clypeus rostriform  ocelli more or less imperfect EEMBICINI.
5  Hind ocelH normal 6 Hind ocelli more or less distorted LARRINI.
6  Eyes entire 7 Eyes emarginate within TRYPOXYLONINI.
7  Second submarginal cell not petiolate 8 Second submarginal cell ietiolate 10 8  Middle tibiae armed with two spurs at apex 9 Middle tibite with one spur at apex LYRODINI.
iJEyes  touching above second submarginal cell receiving both recurrent uervures AST ATI XI.
Eyes  not touching on the vertex widely separated first and second submarginal cells each receiving a recurrent nervure .
.
DIPLOPLECTRIXI.
10  No pygidial area two submarginal cells .... MISCOPHINI.
A pygidial area three submarginal cells .
BOTHYXOSTETHIXI.
Tribe I. PHILAXTHINI.
Hind femora more or less thickened at apex truncate and produced beneath Cerceris Latr.
7icercem Cr..
' Astatiiii and Uioploploctriui seem to be cxeeptions to this lefiiiitiin or else the hilnim projeels so little a.s to he iiuliseernihle.
Hind femora more or less narrowed at apex not truncate and not produced beueath.
Abdomen with first segment nol at all petiolate.
Eyes entire within submedian cell of posterior wings much shorter than the median on the externomedial nervure J with a distinct pygidial area Aphilantjioi'S Patt.
Eyes more or less emarginate within submedian cell of posterior wings as long or slightly longer than the median on the externomedial nervure 9 without a pygidial area.
 PiiiLAXTHUS Fabr.
Abdomen with hist segment subpetiolate as in MelUnus.
Th ACHY PUS Kl.
Trile II. MELLIXIXJ.
In this tribe I include MelUnus and Gorifes separating them from the Xyssonini chiefly because the apical joint of the i antennrc is normal and is not crescent or otherwise shaped as in the Nyssonini also because the second subniargiual cell is not petiolate as in that tribe.
Antenme well separated situated close to base of clypeus anterior margin of clypeus denticulate a recurrent nervure received by the third submarginal cell abdomen always with first segment always petioliform NIkllinus Fabr.
Antcnnic approximate generally w ell separated from base of clypeus anterior margin of cljpeus rarely or never dentate third submarginal cell never receiving a recurrent nervure abdomen rarely with the hist segment itetioliform .
.
.
Gokytks Latr.
The genera Hoplist Dienoplux and Euspougns are identical with Gorytea Tribe III. NYSSONINI.
Prothorax above subtjuadrate longer than dorsulum metathorax not strongly spiuose posterior femora beneath at apex produced into a stout tooth form slender.
Submedian cell of anterior  ings much longer than the median on the externomedial nervure abdomen without a pale spot on each side of the second dorsal segment .
.
.
Didineis Wesm.
Submedian cell of anterior wings a little shorter than the median on the externomedial nervure abdomen with a pale spot on each side of second dorsal segment Alyson Jur.
Prothorax aboe very narrowly transverse metathorax ith two long sjiines tooth of posterior femora not so strong as in the jueceding two genera form robust NvssoN Latr.
In the foregoing table Paranysson and Hypomsson are considered synonymous with Nyssou.
The lack of the thiid submargiual cell in N. Ilyponysson hicolor is simply an anomaly.'' I have recently received another anomalous species which is new from New Mexico which lacks the second petiolated submarginal cell.
Tribe IV. STIZINI.
Marginal cell about tA ice as long as the first submargiual spurs of hind tibiie enlarged in the 9  and the pygidium well developed abdomen    with a single spine at apex .
.
.
Sphecius Dhlb.
Marginal cell much shorter than the first submarginal spurs of hind tibipe short in both sexes not enlarged no pygidium at the most with two short ridges on each side of apical portion of last dorsal abdominal segment abdomen  with three spines at apex Stizus Latr.
Bembecinus and Mecjastizus are considered synonymous with Stizus in the foregoing table.
Tribe V. BEMBICINI.
Anterior ocellus linear transversely arcuate.
Maxillary palpi sixjointed labial palpi fourjointed.
Metathorax excavated posteriorly compressed laterally last ventral segment    with three spines Bembidula Burm.
Maxillary palpi fourjointed labial palpi twojointed metathorax flat or convex behind not compressed laterally last ventral segment    with a single spine Bembex Fabr.
3ficrobembex Patt..
Anterior ocellus elliptic roimd or reuiform.
Maxillary palpi threejointed labial palpi onejointed anterior ocellus longitudinally elliptic maxillae very long reaching the hind coxje Steniolta Say.
Maxillary palpi sixjointed labial palpi fourjointed anterior ocellus round or reniform macillse short .
.
Monedula Lair.
Tribe VI. NEOLARRINI.
This tribe is based on a single genus Neolarra Ashm.
which may be distinguished by its tribal characters.
I have not examined this genus during the preparation of this classification but if my memory serves me right it should be placed here between the Bcmhicinl and Bothiostethhii.
16 See Handlirsch.
i'i.. K. Akxl.
Wissensch. Wien.
Math.natnrw.
Classe XCV Abth.
1 p. 293.
1 See Handlirscli 1. u.Cl p. itiit.
Tribe VII. BOTHYNOSTETHINI.
Marginal cell truncate with an appendiculation eyes converging towards vertex hind femora not thickened at apex PLENOCULLiS Fox.
Marginal cell pointed at tip without appendiculation eyes diverging towards vertex  hind femora especially in 9  thickened at apex BOTHYNOSTETHI'S Kohl.
Tribe VIII. ASTATINI.
This tribe is formed of the genus Astatnx and is based chiefly on the strantre disposition of the eyes of the male sex  they meet on the vertex a characteristic not found in any other genus of the fossorial Hymenoptera and not as far as I know in any genus of tlie Order.
Tribe IX. DIPLOPLECTRINI.
The genus Diploplectron forms this tribe.
The chief characters are that both sexes have the middle tibiio two spurred the veiy short subniarginal cell and the prominent and very long prothorax.
It is evidently allied to the European genus Dinetus which probably belongs to this tribe.
As the latter is the older genus the name proposed for this tribe will have to give way to Dinetini but as Dinetus does not occur in North America and as this is simply a classification of the forms inhabiting that region I prefer to use the name proposed above.
Tribe X. MI8COPHINI.
Wings with two subinarginal cells the first receiving a recurrent nervure marginal cell acuminate not appendiculate eyes converging but little or not at all towards vertex .
.
.
Miscofhts Jur.
Wings with three subniarginal cells both recurrent nervures being received by the second subniarginal cell marginal cell elongate truncate at apex and appendiculate eyes strongly converging towards vertex Niteliopsis tSaund.
Tribe XI. LYRODIXl.
Lyrodn upon which this tribe is based might be placed in the Larrini were it not for the regularly formed and distinct ocelli.
The only other character worth mentioning in which it differs from the following tribe is the peculiar shape of the prothorax above which is lieiag apparently twice emarginate with the intervening space strongly developed.
21 Tribe XII. LARRINI.
Under this head are placed all those genera of the old family Larrida3 which have the hind ocelli distorted and more or less obsolete.
Just within the inner eye margins there is a more or less developed longitudinal fold or swelling.
Mundiljles not dentate within outer side of anterior tibia
armed with strong spines pygidium  9  not pubescent .
.
.IjAkra Fabr.
Mandibles armed with one or two teeth within.
Pronotum drawn under the dorsulum especially at the sides  metanotum longer than the dorsulum anterior femora i not emarginate near the base pygidiai area covered with a hoarfrostlike pile NoTOGONiA Costa.
Pronotum not drawn under the dorsulum  metanotum shorter than the dorsulum anterior femora  enuirginate near the base as in Tuchyspliex and some species of Tdchites pygidiai area on apical portion with short stiff hairs.
Ancistnomma Fox.
Within the inner eye nuirgins there are no signs of a swelling or fold.
Coml on anterior tarsi 9 composed of stifl tolerably short thorns pygidiai area entirely covered with pubescence hind ocelli linear hooked ar upper end fore femora of  either emarginate or not enarginate near the base beneath .
Tachytes Pz.
Comb on anterior tarsi  9  composed of very long flexible spines or bristles pygidiai area naked hind ocelli oval fore femora    always emarginate near the base beneath .
Tac'HY.shhpa' Kohl.
Triie XIII. TRYPOXYLONINT.
Anterior wings witli three submarginal cells abdomen short sessile.
Female with a welldeveloped pygidium nuuginal cell shorter than the first submarginal antenna' of i more or less dentate PiSONOPSIS Fox.
Female without a pygidium marginal cell nearly as long as the three submarginal cells united antennpe of  not dentate.
.
.
PisoN Spin.
Anterior wings with two submarginal cells abdomen long clavate Trypoxyi.on Latr.
Subfamily OXYBELINiE.
In my opinion the peculiar armature of the metathorax and postscutellum tojiether with the form of the eyes and neiiration justifies the retention of the genus 0.rihclis in a subfamily.
Saussure forms a trilie of it.
1894.
NATUKAT SSCIENCES OF PHILADEIjPHIA.
307 Subfamily CRABRONIlSr.
Eyes hairy niaudibles eniargiuate exteriorly.
Entomogxathus Dhlh.
Eyes not hairy mandible not emarginate externally.
Second discoidal cell long narrow obtusely pointed at apex longer than the first discoidal cell form short robust abdomen beneath tiat or suLx'oncave ANAcVtABKt Pack.
Second disioidal cell broadest at aex shorter than the iirst discoidal form elongate abdomen convex beneath.
Ckabko Fiihr.
  Bhopn Km.
RECENT MOUND EXPLORATION IN OHIO.
BY GERARD FOWKE AND V.
K. MOOREHEAD.
During the psmt summer 1894 a number of mounds have been explored in Ohio in lehalf of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The reports of Mi.
Gerard Fowlce relating to the Van Meter mound and of Mr. Warren K. ISIoorehead as to the Metzger mound are appended.
Clarence B. Moore.
Mounds in Pike County Ohio.
 Three miles south of Piketon half a mile from the point where Beaver Creek discharges into the Scioto river on the farm of J. M. Van Meter' is a 'double mound ' on the highest terrace.
The larger part measuring after being plowed over for a number of years 75 feet in diameter and 10 feet high has its west base just at the brink of the terrace at a point where the bluff is 50 feet high quite steep with the creek at its foot.
The smaller south of east from the first is six and onehalf feet above the surrounding level and 56 feet in diameter.
At the junction of the two the top is three and onehalf feet above the general level.
A trench 10 feet wide was started in the east sid of the smaller mound gradually widening until it was 25 feet at the center and then drawing in until it was 20 feet Avide at 15 feet west of the center.
Beneath the middle part was a core 20 feet across and 8 feet high of soil placed and packed or much tramped while wet it was somewhat darker than the loam composing the remainder of the mound quite hard and broke off in clods.
On the original surface of the ground beginning about five feet east of the center was a burned place a little over 20 feet across at the widest part and reaching 20 feet west of the center or nearly to the lowest point between the mounds.
A fire had been burned over this area for a short time only and with a small amount of wood as the burned earth was nowhere more than an inch thick most of it much less while the charcoal and ashes varied from a mere streak  See Catalogue of Prehistoric Works East of the Rocky Mountains byCyrus Themas page 182.
C. B. M.
1894.
i09 to a little more than an inch except in one place where a short log six inches in diameter was converted into charcoal.
Except an arrow and a spear found loose in the dirt there was not a relic of any description nor the smallest fragment of a human bone.
A few pieces of much burned bones of small animals or large birds were in the charcoal at the center and many small pieces of burned stone were scattered all through the mound.
The eastern Section of deep grave 20 feet south from center of larger mound on Van Meter farm.
1.
Body of mound 6 feet.
2.
Soil 1 foot.
3.
Subsoil 3 feet.
4.
Gravel to bed of river.
4a.
Gravel thrown from excavation.
XXXXX.
Position of human bones.
Scale.
.18 of au inch equals 1 foot.
half contained a large amount of ashes and much eliarcoal thrown in with the dirt to help fill up.
In the larger mound a circle forty feet in diameter was laid oft with the apex as the center.
This brought the circumference about four feet below the top.
In the cap 12 feet east of center were decayed human bones with a few rough beads and fragments of pottery at the same distance southwest of center were others with a spear or knife by one femur aud a flint chisel polished at the sharp end near the skull.
None of the bones were entire and being so close to the surface were as soft as ashes.
Six feet southeast of center a fiint knife lay near fragments of a skull and at the place where the chest bones would have been were fragments of a pot that seemed to have been etitiie when deposited.
Less than a foot from the apex were fragmentary human bones.
A knife and a loatshaped slate ornament with a crease around the middle were loose in the dirt.
Nothing further was found in the upper iortiou.
A well wrought flint spear 8i inches long and a hematite hemisphere were found on the top of this mound some years ago  perhaps plowed out.
All the loose earth was now scraped away and concentric circles five feet apart laid off on the level surface of the top.
In the outer ring on the northern and western sides within a foot or less of the top were traces of six skeletons intrusive burials  nothing was found with any of them.
A little west of south from center with its inner nuirgin 17 feet from that point was an elliptical grave dug before the mound was begun.
It measured a little more than nine feet long anil a little more than five feet wide with the longer axis very nearly east and west.
At about 18 inches below the original surface along the center line of the grave a body had been placed.
Only fragments of the teeth and skull remained except that a few small pieces of the pelvis and finger bones were preserved by the action of five small rectangular coppeiplatesthat had evidently been fastened around the wrist.
These plates were in a little mass of very loose dark earth probably remains of some sort of fur or fabric stained in a few places with red ochre.
Nothing else was found in the grave until at the bottom more than a foot below the upper level of the gray sand which here lies fouifeet under the proper surface.
At this level lay a few decayed pieces of bones of a medium sized person extended on the back head east exactly under the upper skeleton.
The body had been covered with baik or wood which extended to the margin of the grave on every side and gave a reddishbrown tinge to the lower two inches of filledin earth.
This earth was from a swamp or low bottom being black and sticky and evidently packed in wet causing the entire deay of the skeleton which would otherwise have been well preserved ly the dry sand in which it lay.
The grave wall was cut down straight for See note.
'.
B. M. two feet below this the ends drew in somewhat while the sides were slijhtly overhanging pvoliahl from caving in f the gravel while it was being dug.
The work was done from the south side as most of the earth was thrown to that side the remainder being iled at the two ends.
At 15 feet north of the center began a streak of burned earth charcoal and ashes which gradually thickened toward the center.
It proved to be nearly circular in outline and 20 feet across.
For three or four feet around the margin the ashes seem to have been swept toward the center as the natural earth of the mound had been deposited directly on that burned without any ashes or charcoal intervening.
At eight feet north of center the mass thickened to a foot and held this thickness for six feet farther and for nearly eight feet east and west.
The material forming the charcoal varied from sedge grass to small trees the largest piece being a pine log a foot in diameter and six feet long.
The inner portion of this was in its natural tondition the charred outside having preserved the iart to which the tire had not reached.
Much of the charcoal was frjm wood burned while green and was bright as polished metal where it had been kept tolerably dry.
There were a few fragments of animal bone here and there and enough small pieces of human bone to show that a body or skeleton had been ciemated some of them being like cinder others scarcely charred.
The thinness of the ashes and the amount of the charcoal showed that the fire had been smothered while much of the fuel remained on it.
Iying on the to of the charcoal where it was thickest was a considerable quantity of charred cloth showing at least four distinct methods of weaving  there was also much of what seemed tb be fur or some such material  the latter was soft as soot while some of the cloth was fairly well preserved a very little of it showing scarcely any mark of burning.
Except as noted above no relics of any description were found anywhere in the lower part of the mound.
Gerard Fowkk.
The five rectangular sheets of copper found with human remains by Mr. Gerard Fowke beneath the base of the larger Van Meter mound near Piketon Pike Co. Ohio consisted of sheet copper oxidized and carbonated to a certain extent though a large percentage of metal was uuati'ected.
These sheets though not exactly similar as to 312 PROOEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 1894.
Yegetale fabric with sections.
Larger Van Meter .Mound.
cDcuilile size.
length and breadth do not vary materially so that the measurement of one namely 25 inches by 32 inches may be considered to apply approximately to all.
That they had been portions of a sheet or sheets of larger size was evidenced by at least one closely ground edge on each specimen contrasting markedly with the rough line of separation of the other margins.
No ornamentation like the beaded margin and the repousse work of Florida and Tennessee was apparent though the marks of numerous blows from a convex blunt cuttingedge were visible on all the specimens.
Exfoliation was noticeable near the edges.
The sheets were of irregular thickness averaging about 1 mm.
Notwithstanding these indices of aboriginal origin so solid was the appearance of the copper that though no believer in a postColumbian origin for mounds as a rule I admit having experienced a feeling of doubt as to the origin of this copper a doubt which a thorough and careful analysis made by Ledoux and Company of New York speedily dispelled.
The result is given in detail  Copper 999130 Silver 00198 Arsenic 00026 Antimony Trace Iron .
.
00233 Nickel and cobalt .... 00080 Note  The above analy.sis was made after removing the superimposed film of oxides and carbonate from the sample.
Special examination fur lead bismuth and zinc shows that none of these is present. '
' It is quite evident that here we have to do with native copiper of a purity greater than is ordinarily produced at the present time by any smelting process and consequently of a still higher degree of purity than would be the product of early processes of smelting the arsenical sulphide ores of Europe.
.loreover the introduction of lead in refining though not an invariable custom was extensively practised iu Europe especially in copper intended for sheet or wire and its  All smelted copper contains from three to ten lunulredths of one per cent of combined oxygen.
  For full details as to aboriginal copper the reader is referred to Certain Sand Mounds of the St. John's Eiver Florida Part II Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci .
Vol.
X.
314 PROC'KEDJNGS OF THE ACADEMY OK 1894. absence in connection with freedom from consideralle quantities of arsenic or antimony or botli may always he rejLanied as a'ood es'ideace against an early European origin.
Clakkxck Ji.
looKE.
Thic MjcrzGER VouKD.
 This structure the property of Mr. Jliarles Metzger is located on Deer Creek about two miles from Yellow Bud southwest.
Situated upon a hill one hundred and fifty or one hundred and sixty feet in altitude the mound commands a fine view of the surrounding country.
The plains stretch away towai'ds the Scioto three miles distant and continue two miles east of the river where they terminate in high hills.
The mound is very nearly round and is thirtyfour feet in height by two hundred feet in diameter at the base.
Alongside of it is a horseshoe or crescentshaped embankment and two small mounds.
On August 20 1894 work was begun upon the structure.
The mound had been originally opened by some farmers.
When they began work the structure stood forty feet in height.
They sank a circular shaft eight feet in diameter from the apex downwards.
Our men first reduced the height of the mound about ten feet.
This gave a platfoim fifty feet in diameter and twentyfour feet above the surroiuiding surface.
The ground in the center of the structui'e where the previous excavation had been sunk we found to be very damp and heavy and as we proceeded downward we became convinced that the log pen found by the original excavators in the center of the structure would be in a bad condition and that we must depend on other pens were we to take out any logs entire.
The structure was composed of ordinary hill clay.
At the top it was not stratified and as it varied but slightly in color it was extremely diflficult to distinguish any of the ' dumps.'
' On August 22nd a very fragmentary skeleton was found about twelve feet below the top and four feet southwest of the central excavation.
The body had been originally buried in bark which percolation of water from above had utterly decomposed.
With the bones was a spoolshaped button of copper about an inch in diameter heavily coated with copper oxide.
The 25th two teams were put upon the mound and they together with the shovels reduced it rapidly.
When within four feet of the  A  dump  represents the load deposited by one man.
 C. B. M.
1894.
NATU1A SCIKNCIOS OF PHI rADKLPHIA.
315 top of the log pens we liipens'Ml with the teams and used the shovellers tor the ivmainder of the work.
One or two arrowheads svere found liirinr the course of the excavations. 
At eighteen feet from the to and eight feet north of the center was a fairly well preserved skeleton surrounded by pieces of saplings and logs two to four feet in length.
These were originally laid one altove the other to the height of about a foot.
These logs being of small size when decayed had broken beneath the weight of earth.
The bones of the skeleton were unusually yellow.
No relics were found with the remains.
We saved some samples of the wood which experienced timber men pronounced oak and walnut.
''On the 27th and 2Sth numerous bunches of fine roots and undergiound moss were encountered.
Samples of the moss were preservel.
There were also several deposits of boulders made without appaient reason.
The mound at this point  twentythree feet from the top nine feet from the bottom appeared to be stratified and the eartli was veiy soft in places.
The log pen in the center of the mound and the one northwest of it remained for manv vears before thev caved in.
That is.
the t Metzger Mound diagram showing banded structure of portion of east wall of trench when partially excavated.
Wood did not decay for a long period of time.
In the case of the first or largest pen central one the earth was kept out of a space 12 X 15x4 feet.
The second pen occupied a space about SxlO and about 6 feet high and was constructed differently from the fii'st being very small at the top.
These pens existed long enough for the eartli above them to be packed into large clods which did not fall into the cavity when the wood decayed but gradually settled forming an arch.
The second arch was about 8 feet in diameter at the bottom and 7 feet high.
The cavity was filled with underground moss.
There was no evidence that moisture had ever entered the 116 1894.
im SeVvenson.
J.
Meizycr .MdUiid.
 iirain ni' horizontal section showing size ami sliape of basket dumps.
Sie of section 3x6 feet.
Colors of the earth found within limits of this diagram were black light and dark brown yellow and bluish gray.
little cave.
It was perfectly dry with fine dust in the bottom.
The moss would blaze when touched with a match.
In the central pen the conditions were entirely different.
The excavation sunk by the farmers permitted water to penetrate entirely over 15x20 feet of the base of the mound. 
As the main trench was continued we noticed several small ash pits and patches of dark and also burnt earth.
In these were ashes pottery fragments animal bones mussel shells and flint chips.
This village site refuse was not considerable. 
Below the upper portion different colors in the mound showed plainly the 'dumps' which contained from a peck to a third of a bushel each.
They clearly showed the mound to have been constructed entirely by manual labor and that about as much earth as could be conveniently carried by one person was deposited in each load.
The drawing B shows the section three by six feet which has been carefully ' scalped' and smoothed to bring out the shades. 
The trench at this point was about fortyfive or fifty feet in width and was level throughout.
The last three or four feet taken out by the teams were removed from the center and when the shovellers began the trench dipped from either end to the center.
In working to the original base line a large bed of ashes was uncovered.
The log pen itself extended 12 feet east and west to 15 feet north and south.
The statement of the original excavators we can hardly verify.
It appears that the pen was composed of smaller logs than they state.
Two large logs have left a broad thick strip of decayed wood on the narrowest side of the pen.
One corner of the pen ran over into the ash pit.
The logs at the southeast corner seem to have been somewhat larger than the others and were badly decayed but we managed to dig around them and bring them into relief Drawing C shows the pen as far as we w ere able to trace it.
There were here and there fragments of I'ed pottery.
About one foot below the remains of the logs were original yellow clay and shale clay the natural hill soil.
The decayed logs and the reddish earth resulting from their decay would fill four or five barrels.
This will give an idea of the bulk which they originally represented.
It was our opinion from the excavation that most of the logs were saplings and that the pen was not as large as claimed by the original explorers.
While as large north and east it certainly was not more than four feet high.
318 1894.
The side
of the trench were miderminedas much as was consistent with safet'.
It was found that there was nothing in the first  Syliiwt C. Metzger .Mound. Iia'raiii of surface of cxcavaliou sliowiuj jini two feet above base of mound.
or main trench save the pen described the refuse tlie two fragmentary skeletons the cpjer ear lUttoii and a few arrowheads.
1894.
NATUKAf SCIKNCKS OV PiniADRI.l'III A.
310 The trench was cleaned to the oritriiial surface anl cxperiniental holes were sunk even to the shale.
There were no lurials leUw the original surface.
The ground had been levelled and burnt thus giving he mound an even floor or base.
In nearly all mounds of the lower Scioto this peculiarity of construction is observeil.
It is therefore very easy to keep upon the base line.
A bed of ashes was discovered about four feet from the lottom on the northwest side of the trench.
In it were bits of charcoal of exceedingly bright lustre and as hard as bituminous coal.
The asii bed was everywhere covered with a thin layer of reddish bark.
It was impossible to preserve the bark in sections larger than two ly three inches.
The earth below the ashes was burnt a bright brick red.
The ashes varied from three inches in thickness to a feather edge but a quarter of an inch thick.
The earth covered by them extended over ten by six feet. 
It was near the northwestern edge of the asli bed that we found the end of a large log.
Numerous small logs were found above and around this large one but it did not appear that they were laid with any regularity.
They did not seem to be as large as those reported by the men who dug the first hole in the mound.
3Iost of them were six or eight inches in diameter and six feet in length.
They were badly rotted and only a few fragments were saved.
Possibly by the use of plaster of Paris sections might have been secured several feet in length but the ends were so decayed that they would not have shown whether or not they wei'e cut by stone axes.
As soon as tlie end of the log was uncovered the men were set to work upon the ash bed with hand trowels and they dug over the ground very carefully for more than a day but found nothing of importance.
The ashes were very white and resulted from the burning of large quantities of wood. 
When the end of the log was uncovered it appeared to be fifteen or sixteen inches in diameter and being accidentally struck by a pick we were rejoiced to hear it ring as though of sound fresh wood.
Wo were compelled to spend three days more and to cut down the bank between the log and the edge of the mound outside so that the teams could pass in and out.
By these two excavations both were widened we moved twothirds of the earth in the mound.
Near the log the earth on all sides was very loose and in the frni of clods and large ctiunks rather than fine soil.
It appeared that a circle of saplings had been placed about the log. 
The log must have been cut at a distance and carried to the mound.
There is no cedar within ten miles of the structure at the present day and none was seen by the early settlers.
However it may be that cedar grew upon this hill in preColumbian times.
Tlie trench extending to the northwest and uncovering the log was 35 feet in width and somethina over 100 feet in lensth.
On Tuesday September 4th the excavation reached the bottom of the log and measurements gave its length as 18'5 feet with a circumference of 54 feet.
Immediately below the log was a skeleton.
The saplings or small logs constructing the pen had been planted in the earth around this skeleton somewhat after the form of a tepee.
The skeleton itself lay upon the original shale in an excavation two feet below the surface of the ground.
It was 20 feet from the slope of the mound directly above or 36 feet below the level of the summit.
The skeleton lay with head to the north arms at the sides and legs extended.
Around each wrist were two copper bracelets.
At the neck and upon the chest were several hundred shell beads.
There were also the tusks of some large animal.
The dry ashes with which the remains were covered and the great depth from the surface aided in the presei'vatiou of such substances as usually decay.
Traces of hair were aljout the skull the brain' dried and shrivelled was found within it and cloth buckskin and rude matting and bark covered the remains.
All of these were carefully removed and boxed. 
A rough count made on the spot gave the number of beads as 480.
After removing the skeleton the log was sawed into two sections and carried out and shipped.
The outline of the pen was photographed and drawn and the whole base of the trench down to the original shale carefully dug over.
The loose and partly arched earth on either side of the trench was carefully taken out.
The possible presence of other pens in the mound was settled in the negative.
The sides were undermined at considerable risk and the walls were allowed to fall.
Another inspection showed the absence of other burials in the structure.
 This remarkable preservation of the brain is as yet unexplained though a number of authorities have been consulted.
A paper will be devoted to it.
 C. B. M.  Subsequently work of filling up began and when completed the mound stood about 15 feet in height flat on top and about 250 feet base. 
The crescent and the small mounds near it were carefully opened but nothing of importance was discovered.
Three holes were dug in the crescent one at each end and one in the center.
The crescent averaged three feet in height was 118 feet across from end to end 10 feet in width and 250 feet around.
There is no evidence of a considerable village site near either of the mounds or the crescent.
Warren K.
Moorehead.
22 NEW SPECIES OF FUNGI FEOM VARIOUS LOCALITIES.
BY J.
B. ELLIS AND B. M. EVERHART.
 HYMENOMYCETES.
Crepidotus albidus E.  E. On bark of Tiliay.
Ann Arbor Mich. May 1894 A. J. Pieters.
Pileus resupinatesessile nearly white glabrous il cm.
across margin incurved when dry.
Lamelke not crowded thin broad for the size of the plant pallid becoming yellowishbrown radiating from a lateral point spores yellowishbrown subinequilaterally elliptical about 5 x 3i'.
Polyporus pachycheiles E.  E. On the side of a rotten maple Acer rubrum stump Newfield N. J. Nov. 1893.
Imbricated small lj2 cm.
wide 1 cm.
long milkwhite at first margin soon turning yellow mostly narrowed behind the pilei connected by a resupinate layer surface apparently velutiuous but not tomentose hardly depressed behind.
Pores minute 23 mm.
long 120150.
wide round or by the splitting of the walls here and there subsinuate margins even not laceratetoothed.
Flesh of pileus thin not over 1 mm.
thick and like the pores and the whole plant toughcartilaginous.
Surface of pileus faintly zonate toward the margin more distinctly so in drying.
The pores are nearly as long in front as behind thus thickening the margin of the pileus hence the specific name.
Poria inermis E.  E.  On dead shrubs and limbs of various deciduous trees Newfield N. J.
Received also from Michigan Canada Nebraska and Louisiana.
Issued in N. A. F. No.
313 as Polyporus obliqmis from which it is quite distinct.
Resupinate adnate seriate extending along the limb for six inches or more and about one inch wide yellowishbrown 24 ram.
thick in the middle margin thin narrow lightyellow when fresh and closely adnate.
Pores small round extending down to the underlying wood.
Spores ferruginous subglobose 45'.
diara.
1894.
NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEJ.PHIA.
323 Mucronoporus fulvidus E.  E. Ou dead limbs of Alnus Berkeley Gala. Jan. 1894 W. C. Blasdale No.
181.
Resupinate adnate tawnyyellow extending along the limb for 68 or more centimeters and 34 cm wide margin velvety tomentose narrow sterile adnate.
Pores short 1 mm.
or less round extending down to the matrix without any distinct subiculum.
Spores hyaline subglobose about 2 diam.
Spines tolerably abundant 2535 x 34 rather pale.
Has the aspect of Poria inermis E.  E. but surface of pores more uneven and spiny within.
Hydnum Washingtonianuin E.  E. On the ground in deep coniferous woods Tracyton Kitsap Co. Wash. Dec 1893 Adella M. Parker No.
214.
About 4 cm.
high pale orange carnose subviscose.
Stipe central 3 mm.
thick subatteuuated below.
Pileus about 4 cm.
across slightly depressed in the center thin glabrous wrinkled when dry.
Aculei subulate cylindrical 35 mm.
long pale yellow nearly white when fresh decurrent half way down the stem.
Spores angularglobose white 67a diam. borne on clavatecylindrical basidia 2022 X 6 with 4 erect slender sporophores about 6 long.
From H. repandum to which it is closely allied it differs in its decurrent aculei and tougher substance.
Tremellodon piisillum E.  E. On rotten wood among coniferous trees Tracyton Wash. Dec 1893 Adella M. Parker No.
212.
Small stipitate gelatinous white and nearly transparent.
Pileus subreniform membranaceous 11 2 cm.
across smokybrown above and sparingly clothed with weak pale hairs.
Teeth not crowded white subcompressed about 2 mm.
long narrowed gradually from the base with a few obtuse short lateral tuberculiform branches or processes.
Spores ovateglobose 56 x 354 consisting of a thin transparent sack containing a single large globose nucleus.
Stipe lateral cylindrical slender equal hirtopubescent 1 cm.
long 2 mm.
thick smokybrown.
T. hirneoloides B.
 C. is a much coarser stouter plant with stipe 18 mm.
long 8 mm.
thick at the base.
Coniophora capnoides E.  E. On bark of dead maple London Canada Sept. 1892 Dearness No.
2004.
Very thin purplish margin of the same color much resembling outwardly Corticium fumigatum Thuni. only not at all cracked and of a darker color.
Spores brownish smooth globose 33i'.
diam. or short elliptical 325 x 33 j borne singly on the apices of short brown basidia or rather emitted successively from these basidia in which several spores already formed may be distinctly seen.
The subhymenial hyphie are very scanty and the bark has the appearance of having been for some time exposed to smoke.
Peniopliora Atkinson
E.  E. On bark of some deciduous tree Syracuse N. Y.
Prof Geo.
F. Atkinson.
Closely adnate thin smokylilac or smokydrab color surface uneven 13 cm.
across.
Cystidia subulatecylindrical slightly roughened above 3040 x 57 projecting above the hyraenium 1220.
Spores hyaline compressed elliptical when viewed in front 45x23 suballantoid when seen edgewise 45xlili'.
Corticium alboflavescens E.  E. On dead standing trunk of Kalmia latifolia Nuttallburg W. Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
365.
At first orbicular subpezizoid 12 mm.
diam. becoming more irregular in shape and 1 cm.
or more diam. lower stratum milkwhite consisting of loosely interwoven branching threads and extending out beyond the paleolivaceous or yellowish membranaceous hymenium so as to form a thin subfimbriate white margin.
Spores abundant globose with a single large nucleus 46.
diam. slightly colored.
The hymenium has only a slight tinge of olive and is perhaps better described as lightdrab color.
Dacryomyces flabella E.  E. On a decaying stump Mercer Island near Seattle Wash. Nov. 1893 Adella M. Parker.
Fanshaped deep orange color gelatinous l22 cm.
broad and high with a short lateral stipe suberect with the opposite margins incurved so as to bear some resemblance to Peziza onotica Pers. subtuberculiform or otherwise irregular in shape when young.
Spores oblongcylindrical with an oblique apiculus below obtuse and rounded above yellowish about 7septate 1518 x Qp. about the same as in D. stillatus from which its fanshaped form and lateral stipe will readily distinguish it.
  PYRENOMYCETES.
Capnodium caespitosum E.  E. On living leaves of PJiotinia Japonica Pasadena Cala. July 1894 Prof A. J. McClatchie No.
748.
Perithecia subulatecylindrical simple or branched 300400 x 6070. collected into compact convexhemispherical clusters 13 mm.
diam. scattered over the upper surface of the leaf and bristling with the projecting points of the perithecia.
There is no mycelium spreading over the surface of the leaf only a few erect moniliform threads mingled with the perithecia.
Sporidia sporules
ovate 3septate and subhyaline at first finally submuriform and darkbrown 1220 X 710.. We have not been able to make out the asci with any certainty.
Nectria pallida E.  E. On dead bark of Carya alba Missouri Oct. 1891 C. H. Demetrio No.
276 partly.
Stroma mucedinous white forming small jl mm.
white tufts or subeffused.
Perithecia 620 on a stroma globose or slightly ovateglobose minutely pulverulent about 150.
diam. paleyellow with the ostiolum obscure.
Asci clavatecylindrical subsessile 40 X 67. paraphysate.
Sporidia biseriate or obliquelyuniseriate oblongfusoid 34nucleate hyaline apparently becoming uniseptate but not constricted 68 x 22.
Sometimes the perithecia stand singly or 23 together on scattered shreds of the white mucedinous stroma.
Venturia vaccinii E.  E. On dead leaves of Vaccinium ovatum Seattle Wash. Dec 1893 C. V. Piper No.
225.
Perithecia hypophyllous scattered astomous globose 80100ji diam.
 rather sparingly clothed with stout straight black spines 3060.
long.
Asci lanceolate 2535 x 67 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate fusoid hyaline subinequilateral faintly uniseptate 1012 X 224.
Chaetomium pallidum E.  E. On au old yeastculture made on a piece of carrot Loudou Cauada March 1893 J. Dearness No.
2245.
Perithecia superficial thin membranaceous pale ovate 150200 diam. with a conicpapilliform ostiolum.
Asci not distinctly made out but judging from the arrangement of the sporadia oblougclavate 3035 x 1012.
Sporidia biconical brown becoming nearly opake 1418x1012 narrowed and obtusely apiculate at the ends.
Differs from the usual type of Chaetomium in its pallid perithecia sparingly clothed with spreading white hairs but by exposure and age the color of the perithecia becomes darker.
Lasiosphaeria hystrix E.  E. On decaying limb of Sallx Ohio Morgan No.
1021.
Perithecia gregarious depressedhemispherical  mm.
diam. clothed all over except the broad tuberculopapilliform ostiolum with straight spreading stout snuffbrown hairs 100250jt long and 6 TJ
thick at the base.
The matrix is also overrun with a subiculum of finer interwoven branching hairs.
Asci clavatecylindrical shortstipitate paraphysate 8spored 120160 x 20.
Sporidia lying parallel in the asci fusoidcylindrical hyaline multinucleate becoming 715septate nearly straight ends obtuse 4565 x 81 0y Comes nearest L. caesariata C.  P. but that is black and shining and beset with 'scattered black hairs it also has smaller 57 septate sporidia.
Rosellinia limoniispora E.  E. On dead leaves of Fraxinus Rockport Kansas Aug. 1894 E. Bartholomew No.
1545.
Perithecia gregarious superficial ovate about I mm.
diam. often flattened or depressed above clothed except the black mammiform ostiolum with a thin pruinosetomentose coat which soon disappears leaving the surface minutely granularroughened.
Asci p.
sp.
7075 X 9'. with a short stipe 8spored paraphysate.
Sporidia obliquely uniseriate limoniform i.e. acutely elliptical the ends submucronate 1215x78 darkbrown.
The absence of any subiculum and the smaller differently shaped sporidia separate this from B. medullaris and R. mastoidea.
Boseliinia caespitosa E.  E. Ou lead limbs of Celtis occldentalk Rockport Ks. Nov. 1893 Bartholomew No.
1252.
Perithecia densely gregarious or cespitose minute 175200x diara.
ovateglobose rough with conical or couicpapilliform ostioluiu.
Asci cylindrical 6079 x 8 when the sporidia lie obliquely.
7590.
long when they lie end to end paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uuiseriate rather acutely elliptical brown continuous 913x67.
Distinguished by its small rough clustered perithecia.
Rosellinia bicolor E.  E. Ou rotten wood Louisiana Langlois.
Perithecia gregarious hemispherical blackbrown 2 mm.
diam.
 thin and fragile seated on a white subiculum of interwoven branching hyphae.
Asci cylindrical 125140 x 8 8spored paraphysate.
Sporidia uuiseriate broadfusoid subinequilaterai 34 nucleate hyaline becoming brown 2023 x 67.
Perithecia only about half as large as in R. morthien Fckl.
 and not flattened at the apex.
Ostiolum minute papilliform.
Eosellinia ostiolata E.  E.  On bark of Ulmus Americana Rockport Kansas Apr.. 1894 Bartholomew No.
1429.
Perithecia scattered or subgregarious superficial ovateglobose 4 mm.
diam. black minutely granularroughened slightly narrowed at the base with a stout obtuse shortcylindrical or coniccylindrical ostiolum.
Asci clavatecylindrical 150x25 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia rhomboidelliptical longitudinally rugose brown continuous 2538x2022.
Some of them smaller and suliglobose but this may be a deformity.
Rosellinia pinicola E.  E. On a weatherbeaten pine board Rockport Ks.
 Feb. 1894 Bartholomew No.
1379.
Perithecia loosely gregarious erumpentsuperficial ovateglobose grayishblack  mm.
diam.
Ostiolum minute papilliform sometimes slightly compressed.
Asci cylindrical 6065x45 p. sp.
4045.
long paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uuiseriate elliptical 58 X 34 the shorter ones subglobose brown 23nucleate.
Differs from R. ovalis Ell.
in its smaller perithecia and sporidia.
Melanomma asterostomum E.  E. On bark of beech roots Grauton Ontario Canada Jan. 1894 J. Dearness No.
2238.
Perithecia gregarious ovateconical rough black 43 mm.
diam. with a conicpapilliform often distinctly radiatesulcata 45 cleft ostiolum.
Asci clavatecylindrical 8spored paraphysate p sp.
4550 X 810.
Sporidia crowdedbiseriate oblongfusoid 3septate often constricted at the septa and one of the inner cells smaller pale olivaceousbrown nearly hyaline at first 1215 x 34.
Differs from M. fuscidulum Sacc.
 in the shape of the perithecia and very different ostiolum.
Melanomma moricolum E.  E. Perithecia gregarious scattered semierumpent subglobose 1 mm.
diam. with a minute papilliform ostiolum.
Asci clavatecylindrical short stipitate paraphysate 8spored p. sp.
4045 x 7.
Sporidia biseriate oblongfusoid slightly curved subobtuse yellowishbrown 1215 X 34 mostly not constricted but when mature some of them distinctly so.
Differs from M. Mori H. Fabre in its much shorter asci and rather smaller biseriate sporidia.
On dead small limbs of Morns Rockport Kansas Bartholomew No.
1447 partly.
Melanomma alpestre E.  E. On dead twigs of Ardostaphylos Nevadensis Mt.
Paddo Wash. July 1886 Alt.
60007000 ft. W. N. Suksdorf No.
268.
Perithecia scattered hemispherical 111 mm.
diam. carbonaceous black glabrous superficial flattened with a minute papilliform ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical shortstipitate paraphysate 110150 x 1012.
Sporidia overlappinguniseriate or in the longer asci lying end to end oblongcylindrical obtuse slightly curved 3septate brown 1822x56.. One perithecium contained two distinct ascigerous nuclei seeming to indicate that the outer black shell described above as a perithecium is in reality a stroma but the material was too scanty to enable us to settle this point definitely and we havQ therefore referred the specc.
to Melanomma.
Melanomma dealbatum E.  E. On old decorticated bleached and weatherbeaten cottonwood logs Rockport Kansas Feb. 1894 Bartholomew No.
1369.
Perithecia scattered erumpeutsuperficial black glabrous ovateglobose 200225.
diam. at length more or less collapsing above.
Ostiolura papilliforni minute.
Asci oblongcylindrical shortstipitate paraphysate 75110x1012.
Sporidia overlapping uniseriate or more or less perfectly biseriate obovate hyaline becoming palebrown 3septate 1215x67.
Some of the perithecia are subelliptical.
Differs from M. obliterans B.
 Br.
in its habitat on wood of deciduous tree and its constricted sporidia from 31.
CaUllus Sacc.
in the character of the sporidia and smaller perithecia nor does it seem referable to any other species with 3septate sporidia.
Trematosphseria vitigena E.  E. On old decaying wood of Vitis rupestris Nuttallburg West Va Apr. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
454.
Perithecia gregarious sunk in the wood all except the obtuse convex apex 5I mm.
diam. depressedglobose the buried part rather thinwalled the erumpent convex apex thick solid like the stromatic shield of Clypeosphcer'vj.
Ostiolum papilliforni soon perforated.
Asci clavatecyliudrical paraphysate 8spored 86100 x 1012.
Sporidia subbiseriate fusoidoblong 3septate and constricted subacute palebrown 2025x67.
Trematosphssria Fraxini E.  E. On dead limbs of Fraxinus viridis that had lain for some time in water Rockport Kansas Feb. 1894 Bartholomew No.
1373 Perithecia scattered semierumpent small elliptical on a horizontal section 300500 x 250300 the base sunk nearly to the wood the erumpent apex closely embraced by the epidermis.
Ostiolum papilliforra soon deciduous and then perithecium perforated.
Asci clavate shortstipitate paraphysate 7080x1215 8spored.
Sporidia overlapping below biseriate above fusoidoblong brown 3septate and constricted at all the septa often with one cell swollen slightly curved 2027 x 68.
The specc.
of Sphceria vielina B.
 Br.
in Rab.
F. E.  1835 have perithecia ovateconical h mm.
diam.
and sporidia uniseriate 46nucleate not constricted straight 2230x1215 and are certainly different from this.
Teichospora Teichosporella Ohiensis E. E. On hard wood Ohio Morgan No.
1012 330 I'KOCKEDINGS OF THE ACADPJMY OF 1894.
Pei'ithecia densely gregarioas superficial grayishblack rough ovateglobose 300400.
diani with a broad papilliform soon perforated ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical shortstipitate 5562 x 78. 8spored paraphysate
Sporidia uniseriate shortelliptical yellowishhyaline obscurely 1 3septate and uiuriform 1012 x 68.
Has the general aspect of Roselliiiia pulveraeea Ehr.
.
Teichospora tuberculata E.  E. On vvoud of LIriodendron Ohio Morgan No.
1004.
Perithecia gregarious superficial minute about 300.
high and 200'.
broad ovateconical sessile on the flattened base coarsely tubercularroughened black.
Ostiohun obtuse perforated and often 4sulcatecleffc.
Asci ciavatecylindrical shortstipitate 110 x 20 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia irregidarly biseriate oblongelliptical multiseptate and muriforni hyaline at first tardily becoming brown slightly constricted in the middle 1922 x 1113. ends obtuse.
Distinguished from the other species by the ovateconical tubercularroughened perithecia.
Teichospora araygdaloides E.  E. On bark of Salix amygdaloldes Rockport Ks.
 July 1894 Bartholomew No.
1507 Perithecia scattered or subgregarious erumpentsuperficial subglobose 250350' diam.
 soon flattened above and at length more or less collapsed.
Ostiolum papilliform.
Asci subventricose subsessile paraphysate 8spored 7585 x 1821.
Sporidia mostly crowdedbiseriate obovate about 5septate and constricted in the middle with a longitudinal septum running through 2 or more cells hyaline and uniseptate at first finally yellowbrown 2022x10 13..
Differs from T. obdueen. Pers. 
in its scattered gi'owth subcollapsing and mostly rather smaller perithecia and shorter asci with crowded sporidia.
Teichospora clavispora E.  E. On bark of Nerioido aceroides Rockport Kansas July 1894 Bartholomew No.
1509.
Perithecia scattered erumpentsuperficial ovateglobose rough 250300 diam. with a pailliform ostiolum.
Asci ciavatecylindrical 100120 X 1415' paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia obliquely uniseriate clavate or narrow obovate 810septate and muriform brown 3035 x 1012 narrowed almost to a point below.
Teichospora rliypodes E.  E On decorticated Bhus Ann Arbor Mich. Apr. 1893 L. N. Johnson No.
1545.
Perithecia gregarious enimpeutsuperficial conichemispheiical  mm.
diatn. with a papilliform or conicpapilliform ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical 100110x12 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate oblougelliptical yellowbrown 67septate with a more or less perfect longitudinal septum running through several of the cells 1518 X 78 slightly constricted in the middle ends obtusely pointed.
Accompanied by pycnidial perithecia Macrophovia rhoina E  E. smaller and depressed with fusoidoblong hyaline sporules 1822x67.
The ascigerous perithecia are more or less covered below with the remains of the decomposing fibers of the wood and have a dirty look.
Teichospora crossota E.  E. On the weathered inner surface of elm bark Rockport Kansas Apr. 1894 Bartholomew No.
1437.
Perithecia gregarious erumpentsuperficial ovateglobose rough black 150200 diam. fringed around the base with short creeping brown hyphse not collapsing.
Ostiolum papilliform.
Asci cylindrical or clavatecylindrical about 75 x 1012 abruptly contracted below into a short crooked stipe paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia subbiseriate obovateelliptical yellowbrown 3septate and more or less constricted in the middle 1215 x 89 ends obtuse.
Allied to T. pygmcea E.  E. but perithecia gregarious and fringed and sporidia longer and acute below.
Teichospora piriospora E.  E. On outer bark of living Fraxinus viridis Rockport Ks.
 March 1894 Bartholomew No.
1233.
Perithecia erumpentsuperficial subglobose I mm.
diam. with a papilliform ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical 100110 x 1518 subsessile paraphysate 8spore4.
Sporidia overlappinguniseriate piriform 611septate and muriform yellow'brown 3545 x 1215 the terminal cells a little paler.
Teichospora nubilosa E.  E.  On outer bark of Celtis occidentalis Rockport Kansas Nov. 1898 E. Bartholomew No.
1249.
Perithecia scattered superficial ovate minute 250x220 rough black with a papilliform ostioluni at length collapsing above.
Asci clavatecylindrical 7075x1012'. 8spored with filiform paraphyses.
Sporidia uniseriate elliptical or ovate 3septate and submuriform constricted at the middle septum hyaline at first but soon becoming brown.
The perithecia are mostly seated on a thin black crust which overspreads the surface of the bark giving it a clouded appearance.
Pleosphaeria cortioola E.  E. On outer bark of Pinus rigida Nuttallburg West Va.  June 1894 L. W. Nuttall.
Perithecia scattered superficial ovate 300400.
diam.
 carbonaceomembranaceous pilosestrigose hairs 100200 x 56 soon opake very faintly and sparingly septate here and there collected into closely compacted fascicles resembling stout bristles.
Ostiolum papilliform obtuse.
Asci oblongcylindrical abruptly shortstipitate 80100 x 2025.
Paraphysate
Sporidia crowded acutely elliptical nearly hyaline at first becoming olivebrown and 57septate and muriform but not constricted.
Comes near P. strlgosa Sacc but perithecia rather smaller not depressed and hairs fasciculate.
Lophiostoma Lophiosphsera
asperum E.  E. On outer bark of Ulmus Ainericana Rockport Kansas June 1894 Bartholomew No.
1487.
Perithecia scattered superficial ovate tubercularroughened except around the prominent narrow compressed ostiolum 400450 high 300350 broad slightly narrowed around the base.
Asci clavatecyhndrical shortstipitate 90100 x 12. paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate mostly overlapping or oblique yellowishhyaline uuiseptate and constricted 1821 x 78 ends subacute or when free obuse and rounded.
Lophiostoma speciosum E.  E. On bark of Fraxiiuis viridis Rockport Kansas March 1894 Bartholomew 1406.
Perithecia scattered erumpentsuperficial globose grayishblack i ram.
diam. with a narrow compressed deciduous ostiolum.
Asci clavatecylindrical 150200 x 2225. p. sp.
112130 long jniraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate oblongelliptical with the ends subacute olivebrown 1011septate.
not constricted 4055 x 1316a.
Lophidium pachystomum E.  E. On outer bark of Popalus monilifera Kansas Bartholomew.
Perithecia gregarious erumpentsuperficial depressedglobose 41 mm.
diam. base slightly sunk in the bark rounded above at first and without any visible ostiolum but finally with a stout shortcylindrical obtuse scarcelv compressed ostiolum h mm.
Ion.
Sometimes two or three perithecia are confluent.
Asci clavatecylindrical 110120x1822 p. sp.
100110.
 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate clavateoblong or obovateclavate 2750x1215 612septate and muriform becoming darkbrown sometimes shriveled and deformed.
Distinguished by its turretlike ostiolum.
Lophidium nitidum E.  E. On dead shoots of cultivated grapevines Nuttallburg West Va.  Jan. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
295.
Perithecia scattered semierumpent small 200250.
diam.
 black and shining subhemispherical the flattened base immersed in the bark.
Ostiolum compressed thin narrow sometimes obsolete.
Asci cylindrical short810 stipitate about 100x1012 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate oblongelliptical yellowbrown 57septate with a longitudinal septum running through two or more cells 1922 x 810 ends mostly rounded and obtuse not at all or only slightly constricted in the middle.
Lophidium purpurascens E.  E. On old paper lying by the roadside Ann Arbor Mich. March 1894 L. N. Johnson No.
1564 partly.
Perithecia gregarious on purplish spots ovate 400450 diam. the apex emergent and crowned with the obtuse compressed ostiolum.
Asci clavatecylindrical 100150x1520. p. sp.
80100i long paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate above oblong or fusoidoblong attenuated towards each end 710septate slightly curved not at all or only slightly constricted 2 or more of the cells divided by a longitudinal septum olivebrown 2225 x810.
Often in some of the asci the sporidia appear shriveled and are nearly opake.
Lophidium confertum E.  E. On decorticated decaying limbs of Fraxinus viridis Trego Co. Kansas Apr.
1894 Bartholomew No.
1457.
Perithecia crowded superficial with the base broadly adnate conical somewhat shining above 300400 diam.
Ostiolum obtusely conical mostly more or less compressed with the opening elongated subhysteriform.
Asci clavatecylindrical 100110x1215.
 with a short crooked stipe and abundant paraphyses.
Sporidia uniseriate shortelliptical pale yellowbrown 3septate obtuse more or less constricted at the middle septum coarsely niuriform 1215 X 1012.
Sometimes the sporidia are smaller and darker with a shriveled look.
On account of the slightly compressed ostiola this approaches TeicJtospora.
Cucurbitaria borealis E.  E. On bark of dead limbs of Salix sp. Alcove N. York C. L. Shear No.
216.
Perithecia cespitose 612 together in compact groups 23 mm.
diam. seated on the surface of the inner bark and loosely surrounded by the ruptured and upturned epidermis 32 mm.
diam.
 black rough subglobose with a prominent ostiolum soon perforated.
.
Asci cylindrical shortstipitate paraphysate 8spored 90110 x 1516.
Sporidia uniseriate or subbiseriate above elongated ovateelliptical about 7septate and niuriform somewhat constricted in the middle yellowbrown obtuse 2027 x 1214.
Differs from C. salicina Fckl.
in its cespitose perithecia and larger 7septate sporidia.
Sphaerella hypsicola E.  E. Perithecia scattered or subgregarious ovateglobose 8090'.
diam. subcuticular or superficial by the falling away of the epidermis pierced above with a small round opening.
Asci oblong sessile fasciculate 2535 x 78' 8spored.
Sporidia crowdedbiseriate oblong or clavateoblong scarcely constricted hyaline 911 x2i3'.
On dead stems of Trollins lax us Cameron Pass N. W. Colo. July 1894 alt.
10200 ft. Prof. C. S. Crandall No.
4.
Sphasrella coerulea E.  E. On dead stems of Aquilegia ccerulea Junction of Big South and Cache la Poudre Rivers Colo. July 1894 Prof. C. S. Crandall No.
11 alt.
9000 ft. Perithecia evenly scattered subcuticular but promiuent deressedhemispherical 100120 diam. pierced above.
Asci fasciculate aparaphysate oblong mostly broader near the base sessile 8spored.
Sporidia 23seriate crowded clavateoblong obtuse uniseptate and slightly constricted at the septum 1520 x 324'.
Difters from S. Aquilegice E.  G. in its depressed perithecia and narrower sporidia.
Didymella Myricae E.  E. On dead twigs of Myriea cerijera Kiamensie Del. July 1894 Commons No.
2503.
Perithecia scattered adnatesuperficial depressedhemispherical 100120.
diam. with a papilliform ostiolum.
Asci obovate subinequilateral sessile aparaphysate 40 x 20'.
Sporidia biseriate oblong hyaline uniseptate and strongly constricted at the septum ends obtuse each cell 2uucleate 20 x 68.
The cells easily separate.
Didymella Physocarpi E.  E. On dead Wmhs o Physocarpus optdifolius Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
488.
Perithecia gregarious covered by the pustuliform epidermis about i mm.
diam. white inside depressedglobose the papilliform ostiolum barely penetrating the epidermis.
Asci clavatecylindrical shortstipitate 8590 x 1012 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate fusoid 4nucleate uniseptate constricted at the septum hyaline 1922x45 mostly a little curved.
Didymosphaeria populifolia E.  E. On fallen leaves of Populus angidata Shore of Lake Huron Ontario Canada May 1894 Dearness No.
2263.
Perithecia gregarious in suborbicular hypophyllous groups about 1 cm.
across not on any definite spots 80100 diam. innate only the subcouoid minute ostiolum projecting.
Asci cylindrical shortstipitate 6575x810 8spored paraphysate
Sporidia uniseriate oblong pale brown uniseptate slightly constricted upper cell a little broader 1214 x 3A41.
Pleospora Richtophensis E.  E. Perithecia tliickly scattered subcuticular globose or elliptical 300400i diam. finally more or less collapsing the papillilbrm ostiolura barely piercing the epidermis.
Asci clavateoblong shortstipitate paraphysate 8spored 85110x2022.
Sporidia biseriate oblongelliptical 5septate and muriform mostly constricted in the middle yellowbrown end cells paler and subacute 2535 x 1214i.
On dead stems of Helianthus Mt.
Richtophen N. W. Colo. July 1894 C. F. Baker No.
238.
Pleospora alpestris E.  E. On decaying stems of TroUins laxus Cameron Pass N. W. Colo July 1894 Prof C. S. Crandall No.
4 partly.
Perithecia scattered innateerumpent ovateglobose 250 diam. with a papilliform ostiolum.
Asci thin evanescent 150x2530 2spored in the specc.
examined.
Sporidia oblongelliptical or ovateoblong 5065 x 1624 mostly a little constricted in the middle multi912 septate and muriform deep yellowbrown.
The perithecia have a scanty fringe of coarse brown mycelial threads around the base.
This differs from PL polyphragmia Sacc.
in its smaller glabrous perithecia not collapsing and its larger sporidia with fewer septa.
Pyrenophora Canadensis E.  E. On sheaths of Phleum pratense London Canada July 1894 J. Dearness.
Perithecia scattered buried with the apex erumpent ovate 250300.
diam. the apex around the scarcely prominent ostiolum loosely clothed with spreading brown continuous hairs 5080 x 56.
Asci cylindrical 150190 x 2832 p. sp.
110120.
Paraphyses not seen.
Sporidia 48 oblongelliptical or ovateelliptical nearly hyaline obtuse 3septate scarcely constricted when mature one or two of the cells divided by a longitudinal septum 4055 x 1520.
Leptosphgeria sambucina E.  E. On dead Sambucus melanoearpa Cameron Pass Colo. alt.
10000 ft. July 1894 C. F. Baker.
Perithecia buried ovateglobose 350400.
diam. iaising the epidermis into pustules which are whitish at first with the minute black papilliform ostiolum visible in the center.
Asci clavatecylindrical 100120x12 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia fusoidcylindrical slightly curved uniseptate and constricted at first finally 68eptate and constricted at the septa generally with one cell near the middle swollen 2227 x 671 goldenyellow.
Differs from L. agnita Desm.
in its broader goldenyellow Bporidia.
L. Samhaci in Roum.
F. Gall.
5960 has 3septate sporidia.
Leptosphaeria papyricola E.  E. On old pasteboard lying by the roadside Newfield N. J Aug. 1894.
Perithecia gregarious buried with the acutely conical ostiolum erurapent llOloO diam.
 ovateglobose.
Asci p.
sp.
6070 x 5a with a siender stipe 3040 long paraphyses obscure.
Sporidia biseriate fusoid dull yellow slightly curved 3septate often constricted at the middle septum with the next cell above swollen 1420 mostly about 15 x 213.
Differs from au' form of L. eustoma Fr. 
in its conical ostiolum and constantly narrower sporidia.
An Ophiobolus with asci 110120 x 5 spoi'idia filiform 80110 X lo also occurs on the same matrix.
Ophiobolus fragilisporus E.  E. Perithecia scattered erumpentsuperficial ovateconical brownishblack 350450 high 300350 thick  narrowed above into the prominentpapilliform or shortcylindricaj black ostiolum.
Asci linear gradually narrowed below 150200 x 55.
Paraphyses filiform evanescent.
Sporidia nearly as long as the asci yellowishbrown 11 thick readily separating into joints 812 long.
Allied to 0. rudis Riess.
 but sporidia only half as thick and perithecia ovateconical.
On dead herbaceous stems on overflowed land Walton Creek Colorado July 1894 alt.
6500 ft. Prof C. S. Crandall No.
40.
Linospora Brunellae E.  E. On living leaves of Brunella vulgaris Columbia River W. Klikitat Co. Wash. Apr.
1886 W. N. Suksdorf No.
267.
Perithecia thickly scattered amphigenous luried in the substance of the leaf but raising the epidermis into little black tubercles about i mm.
diam.
 and pierced above by the papilliform or shortcylindrical ostiolum.
Asci clavatecylindrical 8090x1215 8spored paraphysate
Sporidia fasciculate lying parallel clavatecylindrical yellowishhyaline 3septate not constricted 5565 x 3.
23 Hypospila Brunellae E.  E. On leaves of Brunella vulgaris Seattle Wash. Sept. 1892 C. V. Piper.
Perithecia buried in the substance of the leaf h mm.
diaro. the base hemisphericalprominent below the conicpapilliform ostiolum erumpeut through the slightly tubercularelevated epidermis above.
Asci clavatecyliudrical 90110 x 12' 88pored with tiliform paraphyses.
Sporidia cylindrical crowded nearly straight faintly 13septate obtuse 5562 x 34.
Anthootomella hypsophila E.  E. Perithecia gregarious buried in the bark globose black 2 mm.
diam. raising the surface of the bark into distinct pustules which are barely pierced by the papilliform ostiolum.
Asci cylindrical 90110x12' paraphysate 8spored stipitate.
Sporidia uniseriate narrowelliptical deep brown and finally opake 1518 x 810.. On dead stems of Loaicera involacrafa Cameron Pass N. W. Colo. alt.
10000 ft. C. F. Baker.
Anthostomella suberumpens E.  E. On inner surface of loosened elm bark Rockport Kansas Nov. 1893 Bartholomew No.
1244.
Perithecia gregarious sunk in the bark with the stout conical ostiolum and often the apex of the perithecium erumpent 250320 diam. with tolerably thick walls.
Asci cylindrical shortstipitate 90110 X 78 8spored with filiform paraphyses.
Sporidia uniseriate elliptical brown becoming nearly opake 12x68.
Distinguished from other species by its stout conical ostiolum and suberumpent perithecia approaching RoseUinia.
Diaporthe Chorost.
stereostoma E.  E. On dead branches of SimpJwricarpon occidentalis Rockport Kansas June 1894 Bartholomew No.
1482.
Stromata scattered or subcoufiuent enclosed in a thin black subcarbonaceous crust conical or subpulvinate 13 mm.
diam. seated on the wood and covered by the thin bark which is raised into pustules and pierced by the fascicle of stout black coniccylindrical ostiola which are 2I mm.
long.
Perithecia 312 in a stroma subglobose about i mm.
diam.
 slightly sunk in the surface of the wood which is marked by a cluster of shallow cupshaped cavities 1894 NATURAI.
SCIENCES OF PHIIjADELPHIA.
339 when the perithecia are removed.
Asci p.
sp.
4550 x 78 clavatecylindrical paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate oblong 34nucleate slightly constricted in the middle obtuse hyaline 1012 X 8i4.'..
Very distinct from D. Ryckholtii which is also found on SympJioricarpos.
Diaporthe Chorostate tetraptera E.  E. On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall.
Stroma cortical 12 mm.
diam. surrounded by a black line which does not penetrate the wood.
Perithecia 412 circinate 5 mm.
diam. sunk to the wood and leaving their impress on its surface but not penetrating it.
Ostiola obtusely rounded and perforated erumpent in a compact fascicle and closely surrounded by the ruptured epidermis.
Asci clavatecylindrical 7580 x 12.
Sporidia biseriate oblougfusoid slightly curved subobtuse hyaline uniseptate and constricted at the septum each cell with a large nucleus 1922 X 57.
Differs from D. Haleske E.  E. in its smaller perithecia not sunk in the wood and its much larger sporidia.
Diaporthe Chorostate Halesiae E.  E. On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall.
Perithecia 48 loosely circinate f mm.
horncolor inside becoming nearly black sunk in the wood necks converging with their obtuse smooth hemisphei'ical ostiola erumpent in a close fascicle closely surrounded by the ruptured epidermis.
Asci slender 5560 x 67 shortstipitate.
Sporidia subbiseriate fusoidoblong hyaline 24nucleate becoming uniseptate and slightly constricted straight 12 15 X 2i3.
There is no distinct circumscribing line around the stroma but the inner surface of the bark is uniformly blackened.
Diaporthe Araliae E.  E. On dead limbs of Aralia spinosa Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
312.
Stroma buried in the wood and circumscribed by a penetrating black line elliptical about 5x4 ram.
Perithecia buried in the stroma few 610 globose AJ mm.
diam. their shortcylindrical ostiola projecting from a black tubercular disk seated on the surface of the wood and perforating the pustuliformelevated epidermis but scarcely rising above it.
Asci clavatecylindrical 4045 x 56'i paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate oblong 4nucleate becoming uniseptate and slightly constricted hyaline obtuse 1213x2i3.
Allied to and resembling D. ocularia C.  E. Valsa ribicola E.  E. On dead Ribes aureitm Rockport Kansas Aug. 1894 E. Bartholomew No.
1530.
Perithecia eircinate 1012 buried in the unchanged substance of the inner bark not penetrating to the wood or circumscribed by any black line 230250 diam. ovateglobose with slender necks converging with their rounded black finally subumbilicate ostiola eruinpent around the margin of a dirty white disk.
Asci clavatecyliudrical about 60 x 8.
Sporidia biseriate above allantoid hyaline obtuse moderately curved 1215 x 34a.
The white disk is only the top of a grayishwhite central column around the base of which lie the perithecia in a circle 12 mm.
diam.
This cannot easily be mistaken for V. ribesia Karst. which has sporidia only about half as large and differs also in other respects.
Valsa Chionantlii E.  E. On dead limbs of Chionanthus Virginica Nuttallburg West Va. March 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
228.
Perithecia 410 globose h mm.
diam. buried in the unchanged substance of the bark with convergent necks terminating in shortcylindrical obtuse perforated ostiola erumpent in a close fascicle perforating and slightly raising the bark.
Asci clavate p. sp.
4045 X 810' 8spred paraphysate
Sporidia allantoid hyaline 1215x34i.
 biseriate above.
Spermogonia  Cytispora Chioncmthi E.  E  buried in the bark flaskshaped o diam. nuiltilocular the cells soon confluent the apex erumpent and perforated by a single pore.
Sporules allantoid 46x11' borne on basidia branched above the branches erect straight nucleate 710 long.
Valsa Diospyri E.  E. On dead limbs of D'wspxjros Virriniaiia Nuttallburg West Va. Dec. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
253.
Stroma consisting of the slightly blackened substance of the bark convex about 2 mm.
diam. not circumscribed.
Perithecia 41 in a stroma subglobose i mm.
diam. necks converging and united above in a small black disk which perforates the pustuliformelevated epidermis but does not rise above it.
Ostiola short coniccylindrical with a smooth round opening crowded and finally obliterating the disk.
Asci clavatelanceolate p. sp.
25 x 5'j. 8spored paraphysate.
Sporidia allantoid hyaline 810x12.
Spermogonia Cytispora in the young stroma multilocular gray inside opening by a single central pore.
Spermatia allantoid hyaline moderately curved 45 x lia.
Valsa etherialis E.  E. On dead limbs of Acer rubrum Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
373.
Stromata cortical thickly scattered convex 11  mm.
diam.
Perithecia 612 together circiuate buried in the unaltered substance of the bark small 150250'a diam. their short necks terminating in an erumpeut compact fascicle of obtuse black slighly unbilicate ostiola closely embraced by the epidermis and scarcely rising above it.
Asci p. sp. 
fusoid 1522x442 stipitate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate allantoid hyaline curved slender 56 x about 1j..
When well developed the epidermis is raised into subdiscoid pustules in which the slight protuberances indicate the position of the subjacent perithecia.
V. delicatitla C.  E. has fewer larger perithecia and broader sporidia.
V. mierospora Cke.
 Plowr.
bas also larger perithecia and yellow'ish sporidia and the ostiola are more or less distinctly sulcate indicating its close relationship to Eutijpella.
In F. etherialis the sporidia both in and out of the asci are perfectly hyaline.
Eutypella densissima E. fe E. On dead limbs of Aralia spinosa Nuttallburg W. Va.  Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
363.
Stromata scattered cortical depressedconical 23 mm.
diam. not circumscribed but staining the bark olivegray.
Perithecia numerous often 5070 in a stroma 100120 diam. closely packed their slender necks terminating in obtusely conical 4cleft black densely crowded ostiola erumpent in a brown disk surrounded by the ruptured epidermis.
The disk is soon obliterated so that only the crowded black subshining ostiola are seen.
Asci clavatefusoid p. sp.
2530x4.. Sporidia biseriate allautoid hyaline moderately curved 810x12.
Eutypella carpinicola E. .
E. On dead limbs of Carpimis Americana Alcove N. Y. Oct. 1893 C. L. Shear No.
190.
Stromata cortical flat subconfluent 112 mm.
diam.
 formed from the scarcely altered superficial layer of the inner bark below which the substance of the bark and surface of the wood i.s uniformly blackened.
Perithecia subcircinate 36 together f mm.
diam. with thick coriaceous walls their short necks erumpent in a small flattened tubercular black disk which pierces the papilliformelevated epidermis and appears like a small black speck on its surface.
Ostiola erumpent through the disk broad flat soon stellately cleft.
Asci slenderclavate p. sp.
4050x5 or including the slender stipe 80100'.
long paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate allantoid yellowish slightly curved obtuse 810x2.
The perithecia lie in the superficial layer of the inner bark and when the epidermis is pulled off this layer and the imbedded perithecia adhere to and come off with it.
The perithecia are then seen to be surrounded by a thin white layer apparently formed from the substance of the bark.
Calosphaeria cornioola E.  E. On dead limbs of Cornus asperifolia Rock port Kansas May 1894 Bartholomew No.
1470.
Perithecia scattered or loosely collected in subvalsiform groups of 35 minute 200250 diam. buried in the unchanged substance of the inner bark covered by the epidermis which is raised into little pustules and pierced by the papilliform ostiola.
Asci clavate 2732x662 rounded above and gradually narroved to the base.
Paraphyses linear nucleate much longer than the asci.
Sporidia biseriate cylindrical hyaline curved obtuse 1012x27..
Differs from C. minima Tul.
also on Cornus in its sporidia twice as long and rather broader.
The scattered mode of growth is like that of C. microtheca C.  E. Endoxyla aoericola E.  E. On rotten maple wood Granton Ontario Canada Jan. 1894 Dearness No.
2235.
Perithecia scattered or subvalsiforraaggregated globose black.
1894.
naturaIj sciences of Philadelphia.
343 300o50'x diam. entirely buried iu the unchanged substance of the wood their shortcylindrical or coniccylindrical ostiola exserted either singly or in loose fascicles.
Asci cylindrical 130140 x 12.
p. sp.
901 10'.
 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate oblongcylindrical 3septate and constricted at the septa obtuse not curved brown apparently roughish 1822 x 8 10.
Pseudovalsa viticola E.  E. On dead shoots of Vitii riparla Roekport Kansas April 1894 Bartholomew No.
1454.
Perithecia buried in the unchanged substance of the inner bark either singly or 24 together globose soft if mm.
diam. raising the epidermis into distinct pustules which are pierced by the papilliform or tubercularpapilliform ostiolum.
xsci cylindrical shortstipitate 8spored paraphysate 100120x1012.
Sporidia uniseriate oblongcylindrical straight or very slightly curved obtuse 3septate and slightly constricted 1520x89' light yellowbrown.
Valsaria allantospora E.  E. On dead Xegundo aceroides Roekport Kansas April.
1894 Bartholomew No.
1450.
Stroma cortical elliptical in a horizontal section 47x3 mm. or subseriateelougated for 12 cm. formed from the substance of the bark which becomes of a lighter color than the surrounding parts and is limited by a black line which penetrates the wood to the depth of about 1 mm.
Perithecia 612 in a stroma globose black thick walled not sunk in the wood f1 mm.
diam.
Ostiola erumpent slightly projecting conical black not sulcate not crowded connected by a thin black crust.
Asci clavate shortstipitate p. sp.
5562x810 paraphysate
Sporidia biseriate cylindrical slightly curved yellowish and 2nucleate at first becoming brown and uniseptate but not constricted 1215x832.
Diatrype celastrina E.  E. On dead stems of Celastrus scandens Roekport Kansas May 1894 Bartholomew No.
1472.
Stromata scattered cortical light woodcolor within depressedconical 23 mm.
diam. raising the epidermis into distinct pustules ruptured above with a small elliptical opening by the darkgray disk.
Perithecia 412 iu a stroma subcircinate ovate about ixf mm.
diam.
Ostiola scattered or erumpent around the margin of the disk flat with au irregularly shaped openiug.
Asci clavatecylindrical 6070x78.
p. sp.
3035v long paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate cylindrical smoky yellowbrovvn slightly curved obtuse 1012x23.
Stroma circumscribed by a black line which does not penetrate the wood.
This can hardly be the Sphceria dolom Fr. said by Schw.
to occur on Celadrm.
It is certainly different from the spec so labeled in Sydow's Mycotheca Marchica.
Anthostoma formosum E  E. On bark of dead Geltis occidentalis Rockport Kansas June 1894 Bartholomew No.
1492.
Stromata scattered cortical thickconvex 24 mm.
diam. orbicular or elliptical formed from the scarcely altered substance of the bark.
Perithecia 1220 buried in the stroma but not penetrating to the wood ovateglobose with thick cartilaginomembranaceous walls black and shining inside about 1 mm.
diam. their slender necks converging their stout coniccylindrical ostiola with smooth rounded tips erumpent in a close fascicle and projecting when fully developed for 1 mm.
or more or quite as often merely raising and rupturing the epidermis but scarcely rising above it.
Asci cylindrical stipitate paraphysate p. sp.
6070x45.
Sporidia uniseriate oblong dark brown subhyaline and nucleate at first straight obtuse 710x34.
Anthostoma micrcecium E.  E. On dead limbs of Asimina triloba Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall.
Stroma cortical faintly circumscribed 11 2 mm.
diam. orbicular convex.
Perithecia 48 in a stroma globose minute 200250' circinate necks slender short converging with the minute papilliform ostiola erumpent in a small black hemispherical disk which barely pierces the pustuliformelevated epidermis and is closely embraced by it.
Asci cylindrical 80110 x 810 paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate elliptical brown continuous 2nucleate 1214 X 67.
Distinguished by its very small stroma and perithecia.
Diatrypella prunicolaE E. On dead limbs of Primus Pennsylvaniea Alcove N. Y. Feb. 1894 C. L. Shear No.
298 partly.
Stroma seated on the inner bark convexhemispherical 34 mm.
diara. tobaccocolor inside not circumscribed crowded above with the dense flattopped orbicular or elliptical fascicle of hemispherical smooth soon broadly and irregularly perforated ostiola which raise and pierce the epidermis with an orbicular opening or oftener protrude through transverse cracks.
Perithecia irregularly polystichous small 110150.
 black and shining inside numerous subglobose.
Asci clavatecylindrical shortstipitate 6570x810 polysporous paraphysate.
Sporidia irregular crowded yellowish in the mass allantoid 56x1.
Phyllachora asterigena E  E. On living leaves of Aster oblongifolws Rockport Kansas Aug. 1893 Bartholomew No.
1040.
Stylospores. 
Forming orbicular or elongated black patches 26 mm.
in extent on the under side of the leaves.
Stroma thin gray inside surface roughened by the prominent conichemispherical perforated ostiola.
Ascigerous cells numerous subglobose about 100 diam.
Sporules oblong or cj'lindrical hyaline uniseptate slightly constricted at the septum obtuse 15 25 x 44 1..
This does not seem to be Dothidea Haydeni B.
 C.  which is represented as growing on the stems and having sporidia linear attenuated at each end.
Dothidea Solidaginis Schw.
has a different habit stromata numerous scattered tuberculiform and mostly less than 1 mm.
diam.
Hypoxylon occidentale E.  E. On dead limbs and trunks.
Pasadena Cal.
Prof. A. J. McClatchie.
Stroma hemispherictuberculiform superficial sessile 210 cm.
diam. surface roughened by the large hemispherical ostiola and clothed with a thin coat of short olivaceous hyphse bearing globose ovate or oblongcylindrical conidia nearly hyaline and continuous at first finally pale brown and 13 septate 415x45'.
Perithecia peripheral llixll mm.
Asci cylindrical 120150 p. sp.
about 100 x67' paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate oblongelliptical subinequilateral olivebrown 1416x67'.
Has the aspect of Daldinia concentrka but not zonate withi the inner substance consisting of a compact mass of radiating sooty black fibers with a silky luster.
The species is allied to H. malleolus B.
 R.  from which it is distinguished by its more prominent ostiola not surrounded by any distinct annular depression and by its broader sporidia and the presence of a conidial layer.
Hypoxylon Nuttallii E.  E. On bark of dead Magnolia Fraseri Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
477.
Stromata gregarious subconfluent depressedhemispherical or strongly convex 36 mm.
diam. purplishblack mammillose.
Perithecia small about  mm.
 scattered irregularly through the stroma which is rather soft and brownish withiu.
Ostiola crowning the mammillose projections on the surface of the stroma papilliform soon deciduous leaving a round perforation.
The asci in the specc.
examined had disappeared.
Sporidia brown oblongelliptical subinequilateral 78x34'.
exceptionally '9x5'.
Hypoxylon atroviride E.  E. On bark of dead tree Betiila or Querciis Nuttallburg West Va. Dec. 1893 L. W. Nuttall No.
275.
Stroma pulvinate 11  cm.
across and about 4 mm.
thick orbicular covered above with a thin i mm.
carbonaceous crust which is soon covered by a dark green layer of the ejected spores laterally and internally dirty umber color.
Perithecia which constitute the entire inner substance of the stroma ovate compressed and including the long stout neck about 3 mm.
long and 1 mm.
broad below.
Ostiola papilliform soon covered and obscured by the ejected sporidia.
Asci cylindrical 100x324  p. sp.
4045 long paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate oblongelliptical pale brown under the microscope 2uucleate 452 x 27.
This is a wellmarked species.
The substance of the stroma except the superficial carbonaceous layer is friable and in this respect as well as the color resembles H. Petersii B.
 C.  from which however in other respects it is very distinct.
Hysterium cedrinum E.  E. On weatherbeaten wood of a white cedar post Rockport Ks. March 1894 Bartholomew No.
1422.
Scattered erumpent narrowelliptical minute 1i mm.
 black subrugulose not polished lips thin loosely closed when fresh open exposing the darkcolored disk.
Asci oblong obtuse above abruptly contracted below into a short stipe 4655x163 7' paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate ovateelliptical 3septate scarcely or only very slightly constricted obtuse at the ends subinequilateral 1821x78 the cells uniformly brown and each with a large nucleus.
Conies near H. vuhjare De Not.
and H. ellipticum Fr. but both of these have oblong sporidia and the former has shining perithecia besides their different habitat.
Hypoderma tunicatum E.  E. On dead branches of Ardostaphylos Nevadensu Gray Mt.
Paddo Wash. July 1886 W. N. Suksdorf No.
268.
Perithecia oblong or lanceolate prominent 13 x fl mm. brownishblack ends subacute entirely closed at first finally opening by an irregularly torn longitudinal fissure along the top exposing the pale disk.
Asci clavate 150200x1820 8spored with filiform branching paraphyses.
Sporidia biseriate hyaline oblongelliptical slightly curved 3septate and including the broad hyaline envelope 22x810 the septate body of the spore being about 20x3 24'.
On the tips of the branches was found Melanomma alpestre E.  E. Hypoderma Cassandrae E.  E. On dead stems and branches of Cassandra calyculata Ann Arbor Mich. April 1893 L. N. Johnson.
Perithecia scattered or gregarious erumpent elliptical or oblong 1 Ijxif mm. membranaceocoriaceous black bordered by the ruptured and upturned epidermis lips thin incurved and closed when dry so as to hide the grayishblack disk finally deciduous.
Asci clavate narrowed gradually below into a stipelike base 4560 x 1012 above rounded at the apex paraphysate.
Sporidia biseriate oblong or oblongelliptical hyaline mostly a little curved obtuse continuous 1016x46.
Not to be confounded with Lophoderynhim  Cenanghmi Cassandrae Pk.
 which has much longer linear or filiform sporidia.
   DISCOMYCETES.
Barlaea lacunosa E.  E. On bark Notre Dame Bay Newfoundland May 1894 Rev.
A. C. Waghorne.
Sessile 2I2 cm.
broad orangecolor hymenium deeply lacunose yellowishwhite outside and minutely tomentose margin undulate and narrowly incurved.
Asci cylindrical p. sp.
7090 8spored.
Paraphyses gradually thickened upwards hyaline 33.
thick at the apex.
Sporidia uniseriate perfectly globose hyaline 810 diam.
Comes near B. epichrysea Beck but asci and sporidia smaller and hyraenium lacunose.
Ciboria juncigena E.  E. On dead stems of Juncus Falcon Valley Wash. May 1883 W. N. Suksdorf No.
371.
Stipitate shallow cupshaped thin 45 mm.
diam. glaucouspruinose outside disk winecolored subumbilicate.
Stipe about 1 cm.
long 1 mm.
diam.
below black and longitudinally wrinkled for about t the way up fleshcolor above base flattened and attached to the culm but not penetrating it.
Asci clavatecylindrical about 60 X 45. paraphysate 8sjored.
Sporidia subbiseriate allantoid slightly curved hyaline continuous 78 x 1 i. Ciboria Johnsoni E.  E. N. A. F. No.
3131.
Growing from decaying thorn apples fraits of Cratmgus more or less buried in the ground Ann Arbor Mich. May 1893 L. N. Johnson No.
626.
Stipe slender 1025 mm.
long subundulate slightly enlarged above into the strongly concave 38 mm.
diam. light dirty brown ascoma.
Asci cylindrical shortstipitate paraphysate 8spoied.
Sporidia uniseriate mostly overlapping and oblique sometimes subbiseriate ovateelliptical subacute hyaline continuous 810x45.
The disk in drying becomes grayishwhite.
Lachnella rhizopMla E.  E. On decaying roots of Rhus diversiloba Columbia River W.
KlikitatCo. Wash. Jan. 1894 W. N. Suksdorf No.
306.
Gregarious subsessile dirty white cupshaped and 2I mm.
diam.
when fresh contracted and closed when dry at flrst subglobose and nearly closed outside clothed and margin fringed with straight rough pale brown under the microscope sparingly septate hairs 100150 X 4.
Asci cylindrical shortstipitate 8spored.
Paraphyses filiform scarcely thickened above about as long as the asci.
Sporidia overlappinguuiseriate or biseriate fusoid hyaline 23nucleate 1012 x 3.
The ascomata remain cupshaped with the margin erect.
Disk pale without any distinct shade of vellow.
Lachnella Virginica E  E. On decaying wood of Magnolia Fraseri Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
380.
Gregarious sessile 41 nim.
diam.
Disk pallid concave nearly closed when dry margin fringed with brown septate hairs 100125 X 3' outside clothed with shorter reddishbrown hairs.
Asci about 50 x 5' clavatecylindrical shortstipitate paraphysate 8spored.
Sporidia subbiseriate oblong 68x125.
Pseudohelotium laricinum E.  E. On decaying needles of Larix in a Tamarack Swamp Northfield Mich. June 1893 L. N. Johnson No.
657.
Ascomata sessile thin almost membranaceous carnose orange colored flatdiscoid 35 mm.
diam. darker outside and minutely pubescent margin incurved when dry beset with short compound conical processes formed by the prolongation of the cellular structure of the ascoma.
Asci cylindrical about 758 with filiform paraphyses not thickened above 8spored.
Sporidia uniseriate oblongelliptical obtuse hyaline continuous 810x45 mostly about 4.
n old partly weathered specc.
the color becomes a lighter orange.
Cyathicula alpina E.  E. On dead stems of Pedieularis and culms of Elymus condensatus N. W. Colo. July 1894 alt.
9500 ft.
Minute about f mm.
high stipitate ascomata shalloAv cupshaped when fresh closed when dry about  mm.
diam. disk and margin pallid structure fibrous the extremities of the fibers prolonged and subfasciculate so as to make the margin of the ascoma obscurely dentate.
Stipe about  mm.
high whitish.
Asci clavatecylindrical shortstipitate with filiform paraphyses scarcely thickened at the apex.
Sporidia oblongcylindrical hyaline continuous 810 x 12'.
The outside of the cups is more or less farinose and becomes quite dark.
This is very near Helotium nigrescens Cke. which lacks the dentate margin and has larger asci and sporidia besides being much darker.
Mollisia Gaultheriae E.  E. On living leaves of Gaultheria Shallon Seattle Wash. Dec. 1893 Adella M. Parker No.
185 in part.
Spots large l'2 era.
 orbicular dirty brown paler and purple margined above sometimes ii'regular in shape and occupying the greater part of the leaf.
Ascomata araphigenous but more numerous below superficial on paler parts of the spots small 2 mm.
diara.
 dark livercolor nearly black when dry margin nodulosedentate or subentire glabrous concave.
Asci clavateoblong 4555 X 1012' with a short nodular stipe and filiform branched paraphyses.
Sporidia biseriate oblong hyaline continuous 1012 X 382. ends obtuse.
Allied to M. priiticola E.  E. but differs in several respects.
Tapesia Coloradsnsis E.  E. On bark of Sambucus melanocarpa Cameron Pass Colorado July 1894 alt.
10000 ft. C. F. Baker 236 partly.
Ascomata scattered or subgregarious sessile seated on the epidernis or on the surface of the inner bark 12 mm.
diam. glabrous nearly black outside disk glaucouswhite or lividwhite at first becoming nearly black when dry margin paler thin and subundulate.
Asci clavatecylindrical 4555 x 810 narrowed below into a short thick stipe 8spored with stout but evanescent paraphyses.
Sporidia biseriate oblongcylindrical smokyhyaline often slightly curved continuous obtuse 811 x 2232.
The ascomata are surrounded by a thin brown subiculum more or less distinct composed of slender pale brown sparingly septate interwoven hyphae.
Allied to T. fusca Pers.
.
When dry the opposite sides of the ascomata roll together in a hysteriform manner.
Helotiella pygmsea E.  E. On old cornstalks Ohio Morgan No.
993.
Gregaiious minute pallid yellowish outside sparingly clothed and margin fringed with pale slender hairs.
When moist convexdiscoid i mm.
diam. pallid when dry urceolate and yellowish attached to the matrix by a central point and by light colored hairs.
Asci p. sp. 
about 30 x 6.
paraphysate
 8spored.
Sporidia biseriate fusoidobloug hyaline 4nucleate becoming uniseptate and sometimes slightly constricted 1014 x 332.
Differs from H. carnosnla Rehm in its smaller size and absence of any clavate paraphyses.
Helotiella papyricola E.  E. On old paper lying by the roadside Ann Arbor Mich. March 1893 L. N. Johnson No.
1564 partly.
Found also at Newfield N.J. Ascomata gregarious sessile or contracted below into a very short stipe pale orange of a .soft waxy consistency discoid when fresh and 200300  diam. subspherical and nearly closed when dry outside sparingly furfuraceous margin fringed with short spreading hairs.
Asci oblong very shortstipitate obscurely paraphysate 8spored 2530 x 12 or elongated 5060 x 8'.
Sporidia biseriate cylindricfusoid hyaline slightly curved siibobtuse 24nucleate becoming uniseptate but not constricted 1215 x 3.
The paper is stained orangered around the groups of ascomata.
Helotiella major E.  E. On rotten wood Ann Arbor Mich. June 1893 F. E. Langdon Comm.
L. N. Johnson No.
12.
Ascomata gregarious often subconfluent sessile 12 mm.
diam. dirty orange inside dirty white outside and sparingly clothed the whitish margin more densely so with short pale glandular hairs expanded when mature and fresh margin incurved when dry attached to the matrix by spreading white filaments which also form a thin subiculum when the ascomata are crowded.
Asci oblonsfcylindrical sessile paraphysate 8spored 6570 x 78.
Sporidia mostly biseriate oblongcylindrical slightly curved hyaline uniseptate not constricted 1216 x 2i3'.
H. cornida Ell.
is much smaller and has the sporidia apiculate.
H. Niittallii E.  E.  to which this is closely allied is also smaller with the ascomata of fibrous structure and clothed with longer and much more abundant hairs.
Occasionally a spore is 3septate but the texture of the ascomata is caruose not waxy or coriaceous as in Dermatelht.
Helotiella Nuttallii E.  E. On rotten wood Nuttallburg West Va. March 1894 L. W. Nuttall 397.
Ascomata gregarious sessile flathemispherical ll mm.
diam. cupshaped when fresh contracted and subspherical when dry with only a small round apical opening orange color tljroughout disk watery orange outside and fringed margin paler.
Substance fibrous the fibres prolonged above so as to make a marginal fringe of pale yellow roughish straight hairs.
Asci clavatecylindrical sessile curved 5060 x 56.
Paraphyses filiform hardly thickened above with a series of orangecolored globose nuclei.
Sporidia biseriate oblong hyaline obtuse uniseptate but not constricted 810 x 253.
The outside of the ascomata is slightly hairy so that the specc.
might be referred to Solenopeziza if that is really worthy of generic distinction.
Dermatella viticola E.  E. On dead shoots of Vitis cult.
 Nuttallburg West Va. Jan. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
295 partly.
Sessile convexdiscoid and pale when moist concave and fleshcolor when dry and then scarcely projecting above the surface of the bark jf mm.
diam.
Asci clavatecylindrical about 70 x 12. with filiform paraphyses 8spored subsessile.
Sporidia subbiseriate oblongelliptical hyaline 13septate 34nucleate at first 1518 X 66 i'.
Belonium arabicolum E.  E. On dead stems of Arabls furcata Mt.
Paddo Wash. alt.
67000 ft. July 1886 W. N. Suksdorf No.
347.
Ascomata erumpentsuperficial sessile orbicular black 300400.
diam. subdiscoid marginate Asci clavate 80100 x 910 with filiform paraphyses broadly curved at the tips.
Sporidia filiform nucleate becoming septate
4060 x 11.
Resembles outwardly Pyrenopeziza atrata Pers..
Tympanis Oxydendri E.  E. On dead limbs of Oxydendrum arboreum Nuttallburg West Va. Dec. 1893 L. W. Nuttall No.
258.
Cespitose 35 together erumpent at length deciduous black jif mm.
diam. contracted below into a short thick stipe margin subundulate.
Asci cylindrical 110130 x 1518 including the short stipe.
Paraphyses slender abundant.
Sporidia numerous minute oblong hyaline or yellowish 223 x 1.. Allied to T. fasciculata Schw. but asci larger and sporidia smaller.
Stictis Vaccinii E.  E. On dead leaves of Vacclnium ovatum Tracyton Kitsap Co. Wash. Dec. 1893 Adella M. Parker No.
217.
Hypophyllous gregarious erumpent generally on an indefinite.
pale spot which is often visible also on the upper side of the leaf but often without any spot orbicular or somewhat irregular in outline f1 mm.
diam. with a prominent light colored 34cleft margin Hymenium glaucous white plane.
Asci clavatecylindrical sessile 7075 X 6'.
Paraphyses filiform branched at the tips and bearing minute subglobose hyaline conidia.
Sporidia filiform multinucleate hyaline 5055x127..
This is a more robust species than S. quercifolia Cke. which also has longer asci and narrower sporidia but the two are closely allied.
Stictis chrysopsis E.  E. On dead stems of Ceanothus integerrimus Columbia River W. Klikitat Co. Wash. Jan. 1894 W.N.
Suksdorf No.
309.
Ascomata scattered immersed exposed above and at first covered with a thin white membrane soon open urceolate exposing the deep orangecolored disk 11 o mm.
diam.
Asci cylindrical 200225 x 810.
Paraphyses filiform about as long as the asci simple scarcely thickened above about 1 thick.
Sporidia filiform multinucleate nearly as long as the asci li 2 thick hyaline interwoven.
Schizoxylon compositum E.  E. On dead twigs of Quercus coccinea Newfield N. J. and on dead twigs of Symphoricarpos occidentalis Rockport Kansas Bartholomew.
Ascomata erumpentsuperficial discoid white pruinose flj mm.
diam.
Disk when the white pruinose layer disappears distinctly olivaceous.
Asci fusoidcylindrical or lanceolate 150200 x 810 8spored shortstipitate.
Sporidia linear 100150 x 34.
Separating into elliptical or oblong joints 58 x 34.
This differs from all the other species in the excipulum containing often 26 distinct ascigerous nuclei resembling on a horizontal section so many imbedded perithecia.
The paraphyses are filiform and more or less recurved and branched above.
Sphaeropeziza Coloradensis E.  E. On decorticated stems of PotentUla frxiticosa.
North Park Colo.  July 1894 Prof C. S. Crandall No.
30.
Ascomata scattered erumpentsuperficial about f mm.
diam. subglobose and closed at first then depressed and dehiscent above with the fimbriatelacerate margin incurved.
Asci clavate 4550 X 56 sessile and closely surrounded and overtopped by the con24 glutinate paraphyses.
Sporidia biseriate oblongcylindrical hyaline 25mostly 3 septate not constricted ends rounded 1014 x 33 J.
Patinella macrospora E.  E. On dead stems of Geum Rossii mountains above Cameron Pass N. W. Colo. alt.
12000 ft. July 1894 Prof C. S. Crandall No.
24.
Ascomata gregarious discoid superficial attached by a central point oliveblack glabrous about f mm.
diam. disk flat with a thin narrow entire erect margin.
Asci clavatecylindrical 100110 X 1520'.
8spored.
Paraphyses stout simple olivaceous above and enlarged into an obovate olivaceous head 67 x 56.. Sporidia uniseriate below sulbiseriate above elliptical hyaline smooth 2nucleate about 20 x 10 apparently not fully matured.
Differs from P. hyalophcea Sacc.
principally in its much larger sporidia.
Scleroderris orientalis E.  E. On dead limbs of Cedrus Libani cult.
 Newfield N. J. April 1894.
Ascomata erumpent cespitose obconical dirty white small 300400'.
diam. pulverulent closely crowded together or more rarely single with much the same habit as S. pallldala Cke. and Dermatea carnea C.  E. Disk plane or convex immarginate.
Asci clavateoblong stipitate p. sp.
5560 x 1214' iaraphysate.
Sporidia biseriate oblong obtuse straight or slightly curved 3septate not constricted hyaline 1823 x 810.
.
    SPHROPSIDEiE.
Phyllosticta lindericola E.  E. On leaves of Lindera Benzoin Nuttallburg West Va. Sept. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
593.
Spots various punctiform and minute without any definite border or irregular in shape 1 mm.l or li cm.
diam. or marginal forming a narrow strip along the edge of the leaf for half its length pale brown nearly the color of weatherbeaten wood with a dark almost black border.
Perithecia epiphyllous hemispherical 100120.
diain. covered by the blackened epidermis which is raised into pustules barely pierced at the apex.
Sporules oblongelliptical hyaline 47 X 23..
This differs in almost every respect from Ph.
Liiuleni' E.  E. Phyllosticta Brunellse E.  E. On leaves of Brunella vulgaHs Seattle Wash. Sept. 1892 Prof. C. V. Piper.
Spots rusty brown of irregular shape subaugular 34 mm.
diam. or often much larger occupying half or more of the leaf definitely limited but without any distinct border.
Perithecia buried in the substance of the leaf minute dark colored scarcely visible.
Sporules cylindrical 33 x sf straight obtuse slightly swollen at each end much like those of Ph.
osteospora Sacc which however has sporules 67 x 1.
Phyllosticta ferax E.  E. On fading leaves of Lupinus albifrons Pasadena Cal. Apr.
1894 Prof A. J. McClatchie 682.
Spots subindefinite epiphyllous dark dirty brown more or less confluent blackening and killing the leaves.
Perithecia epiphyllous abundant scattered over the spots and over the green parts of the leaf semiemergent globose of rather coarse cellular structure 110150'diam. perforated above.
Sporules abundant hyaline continuous 34 x 11 i.
Phyllosticta macrospora E.  E. On leaves of Liriodendron Tulipifera Nuttallburg West Va.  Aug. 1894 L. W. Nuttall.
Spots few suborbicular ferruginousgray 35 mm.
diam. with a narrow raised darker border.
Sporules oblongelliptical hyaline nucleate 1530 mostly 2025 x 67..
Phyllosticta allantospora E.  E. On leaves of Cakile Americana Sandy Hook N. J. June 1892 F. L. Stevens.
Spots suborbicular woodcolor brown 34 mm.
diam. margin broad greenish subindefinite.
Perithecia epiphyllous subdiscoid perforated 100110i diam.
Sporules oblong or shortcylindrical hyaline obtuse mostly a little curved 35 x H.
Phyllosticta Araliae E.  E. On leaves of Aralia spinosa Nuttallburg West Va. Sept. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
588.
Spots suborbicular light brown with the margin a little darker j1 cm.
diam.
Perithecia epiphyllous somewhat flattened 100150.
diam.
Sporules oblongelliptical hyaline 2nucleate 1015x56.
Phyllosticta Aplectri E.  E. On leaves of Apledrum hyemale Naaman's Creek Del. Apr.
1894 Commons No.
2408.
Spots of irregular shape whitish with a shaded purple border 1 cm.
diam.
Perithecia crowded in the spots erumpeut depressedglobose 7590. with a distinct papilliform ostiolum of a coarse cellular dark olivaceous texture.
Sporules elliptical hyaline 69 x 5' filled with small nuclei.
Accompanied by Fusicladium Aplectri E.  E. on the same spots.
Phyllosticta rhoicola E.  E. On leaves of Rhns ToxicodeidronuttahuYg West Va.  Aug. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
567 partly.
Spots 46 mm.
diam. deciduous grayishwhite with a narrow black border.
Perithecia epiphyllous scattered 100110 diam. convexprominent above visible also below.
Sporules narrowelliptical hyaline 2nucleate 56 x 23.
Differs from P. toxirui.
E.  M. in its larger deciduous spots with a narrow border and its narrowelliptical sporules.
Phyllosticta Anemonis E.  E. On leaves of Anemone Pennsylvanica Ann Arbor Mich. Oct. 1893 Harriet L. Merrow.
Perithecia gregarious hypophyllous depressedglobose erumpentsuperficial 90110 diam. subastomous on light brown dead looking areas of the leaf more or less distinctly bounded by the veinlets.
Sporules shortcylindrical slightly curved obtuse 57 x li.
This is different from Phyllachora Anemonis Fr.
 which is found both on the petioles and leaves and has the characteristic stromata of the Dothideaceie the single stromata being about twice as large as the perithecia of our Phyllosticta.
and each containing sec.
spec in F. G. 192 36 ascigerous cells.
Phyllosticta QuercusPrini E.  E. On leaves of Quercus Prinus Nuttallburg West Va. July 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
542.
Spots orbicular rusty brown definite with a very narrow border 23 mm.
diam.
Perithecia epiphyllous scattered erumpent 90110 diam.
Sporules ovate or oblong hyaline mostly a little curved 56 x 22i'.
This comes verv near Ph.
Lndoviciana E.  E. J. M. II p. 130 but in that species the spots are larger perithecia more prominent below and sporules rather larger.
Ph.
marginalis E.  E. also has similar sporules but the perithecia are hypophyllous.
Phyllosticta Castaneae E.  E. On leaves of Castanea vesca near Nuttallburg West Va. July 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
570.
Spots orbicular rust coloi with narrow darkshaded margin.
Perithecia epiphyllous scattered on the spots dark semierumpent 100 diam. often collapsing.
Sporules oblong hyaline 57x2Phoma negundinioola Thum. var.
ramicola E.  E. On dead limbs of Negundo aceroides Nuttallburg West Va. Apr.
1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
466 Delaware Commons.
Perithecia evenly but not thickly scattered globose small JJ mm.
diam. covered by the slightly ruptured epidermis but distinctly prominent.
Sporules oblongelliptical or ovate hyaline with a single large nucleus 1013 x 452'.
Differs from the typical form on the dead peduncles in its broader 2J3' sporules.
Phoma Pennsylvauica E.  E. On dead limbs of Acer Pennsylvanicum Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 Nuttall No.
318.
Perithecia numerous evenly scattered subepidermal i mm.
diam. whitish inside raising the epidermis into minute pustules but 8carceh' rupturing it.
Sporules subglobose 671.
diam. nearly hvaliue.
Phoma pedunculi E.  E. Ou old peduncles of MarpioUa Fraseri Nuttallburg West Va. Jan. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
297.
Perithecia scattered flattish pustuliform i mm.
diam. with a prominent papilliform ostiolum.
Sporules fusoidoblong hyaline 23nucleate 711 x 22 ends acute.
Differs from Stagonospora peduncAili E.  E. in its larger flatter perithecia and fusoidoblong not cylindrical rather shorter sporules.
Phoma ohscurans E.  E. Ou leaves of Fragaria cult.
 Nuttallburg West Va. and Newfield N. J.
Spots 58 mm.
diam.
 with a ferruginous center and broad purple border paler below.
Perithecia few scattered convexpromiiieut.
Sporules oblong elliptical hyaline 2nucIeate 4i5i x 122.
Basidia simple lanceolatefusoid 812 x H.
Phyllosticta fragaricola Desm.
has similar sporules but sec.
specc.
in the various exsiccati the spots are much smaller with a white center.
The basidia also indicate Phoma and not Phyllosticta.
Aposphaeria alpigena E.  E. On dead stems of Sambucus nielanocarpa Cameron Pass Colo. July 1894 C. F. Baker.
Perithecia scattered superficial globose or elliptical 150250jt diam. mostly depressed obscurely papillate.
Sporules elliptical hyaline enucleate SSi x IjDiffers from A. fuscidula Sacc.
in growing on the bark not on decorticated limbs and in its smaller sporules.
Aposphaeria pezizoides E.  E. On decorticated wood of Platanus Liqvidambar Fraxinus Acer Salix nigra and S. falcata Nuttallburg West Va. April.
1894 L. W. Nuttall.
Perithecia erum pentsuperficial seriateaggregate hemispherical about 4 mm.
diam. with a distinct papilliform ostiolum at length collapsing and pezizoid or discoid.
Sporules elliptical or ovoid 46 X 2 ends obtuse.
This seems to grow exclusively on abrasions below highwater mark made by driftwood on small trees.
Spliaeroiiema Physocarpi E.  E. On dead stems of Phy so carpus op rdifolitis Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
484.
Perithecia gregarious erumpentsuperficial hemispherical 150 diam. with a straight stout beak 90115 long.
Sporules narrowelliptical hyaline 23nucleate 79 x 2hij.. Sirococcus Halesiae E.  E. On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
376.
Perithecia scattered or 23conuate erumpent subglobose about J mm.
diam. black with a minute papilliform ostiolum.
Sporules subglobose about 3 diam. greenishhyaline 36concatenate the terminal sporule oblong and paler.
Chains simple or sparingly branched arising directly from the proligerous layer without any distinct basidia collected in stellate clusters.
Pyrenochsete papyricola E.  E. On old pasteboard lyiug by the roadside Newlield N. J. July 1894.
Perithecia scattered subglobcse 1 0011 0i diam. clothed with black bristlelike hairs.
Sporules subglobose or subelliptical hyaline 33.
in the longer diameter.
Piacosphaeria Arctostaphyli E.  E. On dead twigs of Arctostaphylos Nevadensin Mt.
Paddo Wash. alt.
60007000 ft. July 1886 Suksdorf.
Stromata erunijientsuperficial pulvinate lt mm.
diam. flattened and mostly depressed iu the center dotted with piinctiform ostiola closely embraced by the epidermis multilocular.
Sporules oblongcylindrical hyaline continuous 56 x 222.
Has the stroma of Dothidea producing only stylospores.
Fusicoccum Tilise E.  E. On dead limbs of Tilia Americayia Naaman's Creek Del. Aug. 1894 A. Commons No.
2517.
Stromata scattered buried conicovate 250350 diam. onecelled gray inside raising the epidermis into acute pustules perforated with a round opening.
Sporules oblongfusoid hyaline 2nucleate 7102 x 3.
Fusicoccum ilicinum E.  E. On dead limbs of Ilex opaea Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
496.
Stromata cortical convex about 1 or li mm.
diam. multilocular whitish inside the tuberculiform apex pierced with a single pore rupturing the epidermis and slightly raising it.
Sporules fusoid hyaline nucleate 1522 x 2 i 3.
Cytisporella pinicola E.  E. On bark of limbs of Abies Enxjelniaiini N. W. Colo. July 1894 I'rof C. S. Craudall No.
6.
Stromata erurapentsuperficial verruciform 11 i mm.
diam. easily deciduous.
Perithecia peripherical.
Sporules minute elliptical hyaline 3 x lA' borne on much branched basidia 1520 x 2.
The habit is that of Dothiorella but the minute sporules are those of Cytisporella.
Cytispora caryigena E.  E. On dead limbs of Carya alba Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
513.
Stroma cortical convex l22 ram.
diam.
 slaty black 46celled cells yellowishwhite subglobose small.
Sporules allantoid hyaliue 34 2 x ll.
Spermogania of Valsa caryigena B.
 C. 
Cytispora exasperans E  E. Oil dead limbs of Acer rubrnm Newfield N. J. and on Acer Pennsylvanieam Nuttallburg West Va. Nuttall.
Stroma buried in the bark orbicular about 1 ram diam. 46celled at length onecelled prolonged above into a stout conical beak opening by a single round pore at the apex.
Sporules oblong or allantoid hyaline 57 xli.
Cytispora Celtidis E.  E. On dead limbs of Celtis Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
314.
Stroma valsoid flat thin li2 mm.
diam. only peuetrating the surface of the bark multilocular gray inside raising the bark into small pustules and finally rupturing it cells resembling perithecia.
Sporules allantoid 67 x 11 2.. Cytispora plilyctsenoides E.  E. On dead limbs of Corylus Avellana Newfield N. J. June 1894.
Stroraata cortical conicconvex 11 J mm.
diam. indistinctly multilocular pale inside with the enclosing layer darker raising the epidermis into numerous small pustules which are soon ruptured opening mostly through a single pore.
Sporules fusoid hyaline 2nucleate 69x224' straight.
Basidia simple attenuated and curved above about 20 x Ij resembling the sporules of Phlyctcena.
Cytispora Negundinis E.  E. On dead limbs of Negundo aceroides Rockport Kansas April 1894 Bartholomew No
1449.
Stroma cortical conicconvex 1H mm.
diam. slaty black multilocular the cells ovateglobose numerous 1520 or more all opening through a single pore in a central column which pierces the epidermis and raises it into little pustules.
Sporules allantoid hyaline slightly curved 527 x 1 il 2.
On branched basidia 20' long.
This is different from C. macilenta Rob.
and Desm.
 as shown by a comparison of the specc.
From C. Pseiidoplatani Sacc.
 it differs in its longer sporules and branching liasidia.
Cytispora Halesiae E  E. On dead limbs of Halesia tefraptera Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall.
Stromata convexconical sunk in the bark orbicular about 1 mm.
diam.
 white inside unilocular the inner surface of the cavity lined with simple straight basidia about 15.
long bearing the oblongfusoid hyaline 2uucleate straight 57x11 sporules which are expelled through a single orifice perforating the raised epidermis.
This probably is the sperraogouial stage of Diaporthe Salesice or D. tetraptera both of which are found in company with it.
Sphaeropsis Coryli E.  E. On dead limbs of Corylus Avellana Newfield N. J. June 1894.
Perithecia thickly scattered globose subcuticular about 2 mm.
diam. raising the epidermis into small pustules which are finally ruptured at the apex with a round or elongated opening.
Sporules oblongelliptical or the longer ones slightly curved and subcylindrical 1520x810.. Sphaeropsis Asimiuse E.  E. On dead limbs of Asimina triloba Nuttallburg W. Va.  Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
370.
Perithecia scattered or subseriate buried in the bark which is raised into little pustules over them and soon ruptured.
Perithecia small 4mm.
 thickwalled with an obscurely papilliform ostiolura.
Sporules oblongelliptical brown obtuse 1822x810'.
Sphasropsis Neilliae E.  E. On Physoearpus opulifoUus London Canada May 1893 J. Dearness.
Perithecia scattered or sometimes 23 confluent small 200' covered by the blackened epidermis semierumjent with a black shining papilliform ostiolum.
Sporules small acutely elliptical or ovateelliptical pale brown 1216x45.
Sphaeropsis Physocarpi E.  E. On dead Plnjsocarpus opulifoUus Nuttallburg West Va May 1894 L. W. Nuttall Nos.
482 and 486.
Perithecia scattered  nini.
diam. buried in the inner bark with their apices and papilliform ostiola erurapent white inside at first sometimes as in the pi'eceding species 23 confluent.
Sporules varying from shortelliptical 1215x10 to oblongor obovateelliptical 1520x10.
Differs from the preceding in its huried perithecia and much larger spornles.
Sph3eropgis Ipomcea E.  E. Ou dead peduncles of Ipomcea pandurata Nuttallbiirg West Va. Dec. 1893 L. W. Nuttall No.
249.
Perithecia scattered ovateglobose 250300x diam. the upper part prominent and closely covered by the shining black epidermis.
Sporules elliptical brown 1823x1013 on pedicels of about the same length as the sporules.
Coniothyrium infuseans E.  E. On dead stems of Valerimuf edulit Eastern slope of Rabbit Ear Range Colorado July 1894 Prof. C. S. Craudall No.
10.
Perithecia densely gregarious blackening the stems ovateglobose membranaceous black erumpentsuperticial 170200.
diam.
Sporules globoseelliptical brown 68 in the longer diam.
Haplosporella alpiaa E.  E. Cameron Pass Colorado July 1894 10000 ft. alt.
C. F. Baker No.
236.
On dead stems of Sambucus vielanocarpa.
Stroma convexhemispherical erumpentsuperficial black 300400'.
diam.
Perithecia cells buried in the stroma 1001507 diam. their papilliform ostiola visible on the surface of the stroma.
Sporules globose 5 or elliptical 67x5 brown.
Apparently the pycnidial stage of some dothideaceous fungus Anerswaldia' Haplosporella Araliae E.  E. On dead limbs of Ardla spiiiosa Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 Nuttall No.
375.
Stromata seriateconnate erumpent through longitudinal cracks in the bark and extending from 45 mm.
to 2 or more centimetres.
Perithecia ovateglobose buried in the black subcarbonaceou stroma 36 in each single stroma about ' mm.
diam.
Sporules elliptical brown 2025x1012.
This may be the pycnidia of BotryospJueri fuliginosa M.  N..
Haplosporella Celtidis E.  E. On dead linds of Celtis.
West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
315.
Perithecia mostly in valsoid clusters of 310 small 200 white inside slightly sunk in the inner bark their papilliform ostiola rupturing'' the epidermis.
Sporules elliptical brown continuous 1822x1012' on basidia of about the same length as the sporules.
Diplodia Kansensis E.  E. On weatherbeaten bleached bark of Juniperus Vhgbnava Rockport Ks. Dec. 1893 E. Bartholomew No.
1292.
Perithecia scattered subglobose erumpentsuperficial il mm.
diam.
Sporules ovateelliptical uniseptate constricted the septum below the middle brown becoming nearly opake 2027 x 1215.
Differs from D. Juniper
West and D. Virginiana Cke. in its larger ovate sporules.
Diplodia caryigena E.  E. On dead limbs of Cana alba Canada Dearness and West Va. Nuttall.
Perithecia subseriate sunk in the inner bark covered by the epidermis which is raised into pustules and ruptured about i mm.
diam. black.
Sporules elliptical brown uniseptate scarcely constricted 1520 X 810'.
Pycnidia of Valsa caryigena B.
 C.
Diplodia infuscans E.  E. On bark of dead limbs of Fraxinus Americana Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
459.
Perithecia ovateglobose small 110150.
diam.
 thickly scattered blackening both the outer and inner surface of the bark.
Ostiolum not conspicuous obscurely papilliform.
Sporules oblongelliptical 1215 X 810 scarcely constricted.
In D. inquinans West the sporules and perithecia are larger and the bark is not blackened within.
Diplodia Cercidis E.  E. On dead limbs of Cercis Canadensis Nuttallburg West Va. Apr.
1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
449.
Perithecia subseriate globose J
mm.
diam. slightly sunk in the inner bark and splitting the epidermis with short longitudinal clefts.
Sporules elliptical 2023 x 1015' on stout basidia uniseptate.
Botryodiplodia acerina E.  E. On dead limbs of Acer Pennsylvanicii.m Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 Nuttall No.
319.
Perithecia erumpent in botryoidal clusters often seriately confluent for 1 or more cm. about 2 mm.
diam. white inside flattish above with a broad papilliform ostiolura.
Sporules elliptical brown uniseptate 2025 x 1215 on basidia of about the same length.
Ascoohyta veratrina E.  E. On dead leaves and petioles of Veratrum Galifornicum Pullman Wash. Nov. 1893 Prof C. V. Piper No.
145.
Perithecia scattered sunk in the substance of the leaf with the apex and conicpapilliform ostiolum erumpent about I mm.
diam.
Sporules cylindrical obtuse 34nucleate becoming iiniseptate hyaline about 12x253..
Differs from A. Veratri Cavarra Fungi Langobardise No.
98 in its larger ostiolate perithecia not on any spots and in its smaller straight sporules.
Ascocliyta achlyicola E.  E. On leaves of Achhjs triphylla Seattle Wash. Aug. 1892 Prof C. V. Piper No.
114.
Spots suborbicular or irregular 315 ram.
diam. with a dirty white center and a broad shaded purple margin.
The white center is more or less deciduous.
Perithecia epiphyllous innateprominent small 75 few on a spot.
Sporules elliptical 2nucleate hyaline 58 x 253. soon becoming uniseptate.
Ascocliyta Asclepiadis E.  E. On leaves of Asdepias Cormdi Pleasant Hill Del. May 1894 Commons No.
2420.
Spots amphigenous suborbicular 1 mm.
diam. grayish with darker zones and a shaded darkbrown border.
Sporules oblongor ovate ellimcal hyaline 68 x 3' becoming faintly uniseptate.
Perithecia epiphyllous innate black pierced above 100110 diam.
Heudersonia stygia E.  E. On decorticated bleached wood of a Cottonwood log Rockport Ks. Dec. 1893 E. Bartholomew.
Perithecia erumpentsuperficial scattered ovateglobose 2 mm diam. or hysteriiform 1 ram.
or raore long at first with a prorainent papilliforra ostiolum lut soon broadly open above the upper part finally disappearing leaving the cupshaped base filled with abundant sporules and then raore resembling acervuli than perithecia.
Sporules ovateelliptical subinequilateral abruptly narrowed at the euds 35septate but not constricted the inner cells nearly opake the small terminal cells subhyaline 1215 x 68..
The species is anomalous in the imperfectly developed perithecia the upper part soon falling away and leaving the cupshaped base.
Hendersonia falcata E.  E. On bark of fir trees Exploits Newfoundland Dec. 1893 Rev.
A. C. Waghorne No.
10.
Perithecia cespitoseerumpent 610 together united below in a thin stroma broadly perforated and subcollapsed above.
Stromata small 1 mm.
 subconfluent and subseriately arranged.
Sporules falcate more abruptly curved or bent above yellowishhyaline granular becoming 13septate subattenuated below on pedicels shorter than the sporules 2022 x 57'.
Differs from Hendersonia rostrata S.  E. in its stroraatic growth and broader shorter sporules.
Stagonospora petiolorum E.  E. On dead petioles of Aralia spinosa Nuttallburg West Va.  Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
357.
Perithecia scattered innate small slightly prominent and covered by the shining blackened epidermis 150250diam. mostlysubelliptical.
Sporules oblong hyaline nucleate becoming 1or moreseptate 1220x35'.
Stagonospora Physocarpi E.  E. On dead stems and limbs of Physocarpas opnlifolius Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
485.
Perithecia scattered depressedhemispherical 200250'.
diam. sunk in the bark with the upper part prominent but covered by the epidermis which is pierced by the papilliform ostiolum white inside.
Sporules linear multiseptate hyaline 2535 x 34'.
Stagonospora Liriodendri E.  E. On decorticated wood of Liriodendron Talipifera Alcove N. Y. June 1893 C. L. Spear No. 304.
Perithecia superficial evenly scattered or 24 subconfluent obtusely conicglobose about i mm.
diam.
Sporules cylindrical hyaline 810 x 222 nucleate but not visibly septate though a central nucleus causes them to appear uniseptate.
Basidia slender 2535'.
long profusely and subverticillately branched.
Camarosporium Celtidis E.  E. On dead limbs of Geltis oceidentalis Rockport Ks.
 March 1894 Bartholomew No.
1400.
Perithecia scattered or cespitose ovate A nim.
diam.
 ofteu seriate covered b the epidermis at first with the shortcylindrical obtuse ostiola erumpeut.
Sporules oblong or oblongelliptical or even cylindrical brown mostly oseptate 1215 x 45. but some of them 56septate with one or two cells divided by a longitudinal septum 1520 X 57..
There is also a Teichospora accompanying tjut too scanty to admit of accurate description.
Septoria Echinocystis E.  E. On leaves of Echinocystis marah Ukiah Mendocino Co. Cala. May 1894 W. C. Blasdale No.
220.
Spots subangular limited at first by the veinlets and greenish becoming light brown with the margin darker 35 mm.
diam.
Perithecia innate globose about 80a diam. thin imperfectly developed brown.
Sporules linear hyaline nearly straight or subundulate becoming faintly 12septate 2550 x 253.
Septoria solanicola E.  E. On leaves of Solanum lunheUifermn Ukiah Mendocino Co. Cala. May 1894 W. C. Blasdale No.
241.
Spots scattered or confluent orbicular 23 mm.
diam. pale brown with darker border.
Perithecia epiphyllous numerous pale brown collapsing 100110 diam.
Sporules bacillary hyaline faintly nucleate 2030x112.. Diflers from the other species on Solanacece in its shorter continuous sporules.
Roumeguere in F. Gallici 722 has a Septoria labeled S. Solani Roura. on Solanum nigrum but the spec is entirely sterile.
Septoria alnifoiia E.  E. On leaves of Alnus rubra Seattle Wash. Aug. 1893 Prof C. V. Piper No.
82.
Spots redrusty brown orbicular or irregular mostly with a narrow dark raised bordering line 25 mm.
diam. more obscure below.
Perithecia epiphyllous innateprominent black minute 80100.
 not abundant.
Sporules linear hyaline with a row of nuclei mostly curved to a semicircle.
3555 x 3.
Of the three described species on Almis S. Alni Sacc.
has bacillary sporules S. alnicola Cke.
has oblong sporules and S. alnigena Sacc.
has no spots.
Septoria solitaris E.  E. On leaves of Rhododendron occidentale Mill Valley Cala.
 July 1893 W. C. Blasdale 172.
Spots amphigenous iounifhite with a purple boi'der numerous about 2 mm.
diam.
Perithecia mostly one in the center of each spot globose 120150 diam. visible on both sides of the leaf.
Sorules abundant bacillary hyaline continuous straight or subundulate or bent obtuse about 20 x 2.
Septoria Rhododendrl Cke.
has the perithecia aggregated or circiuate and sporules 40.
long.
Septoria Enanthis E.  E. On leaves of Enanthe sarmentosa Seattle Wash. Aug. 1892 Prof C. V. Piper No.
50.
Spots scattered small 13 mm.
 white subangular definite.
Perithecia few on a spot 36 small 75.
 black yellowbrown under the microscope subastomous.
Sporules fusoidcylindrical hyaline nucleate 2035 x l22 ends subacute slightly curved.
Septoria saccharina E.  E. var.
occidentalis.
On dead leaves of Acer glahrum Fairhaven Wash. Aug. 1892 Prof C. V. Piper No.
57.
Differs from the type in having the small white spots on which the perithecia are seated not so evenly distributed over the leaf but collected on rusty brown yellowmargined subindefiuite spots 34 mm.
diam.
Septoria circinata E.  E. On leaves of Acer circinatuni Everson Wash. Aug. 1892 C. V. Piper.
Spots orlicular scattered 23 mm.
diam. pale yellowishwhite definite but without any distinct border.
Perithecia amphigenous few 410 subcircinately arranged around the whitish center of the spots small 75 diam.
Sporules abundant filiform variously curved and bent 3060x1. nucleate but not septate.
Seems quite distinct from the other species on maple.
Septoria Tecomae E.  E. On leaves of Tecoma radicans Nuttallburg West Va. Aug. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
580.
Spots light browu wood color irregular in shape small I22 mm.
 inconspicuous and indistinctly margined.
Perithecia immersed small 6570 barely visible with a lens.
Sporules 4050 x 22 not strongly curved nucleate hyaline.
Septoria Ludoviciana E.  E. On leaves of Laduca Ludoviciana Fort Collins Colo. June 1894 C. F. Baker No.
257.
Spots angular limited by the veinlets woodbrown 25 mm.
diam. often confluent.
Perithecia punctiform minute black epiphyllous 7580.
diam. apex erumpent.
Sporules cylindrical more or less curved obtuse not septate 1525 x 2.
Differs from S. unicolor Winter in its lighter colored angular spots rather larger perithecia and thicker sporules differs also in several respects from S. Laduca Pass and S. laducicola E.  M. Septoria Trautvetterise E.  E. On Trantvetterla palmata Nuttallburg West Va.  July 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
564.
Spots irregular subangular partly limited by the veinlets of the leaf often elongated and acute at one end brownishblack with an irregularly shaped white center which is well defined angular 35 mm.
in the longer diam.
Perithecia epiphyllous but also visible below small 6575.
 scattered dark.
Sporules abundant nearly straight or slightly curved continuous 2230 x 2.
Differs from S. Aiemonis Desm.
in its broad dark margined white centered spots and rather longer aud thicker sporules.
Septoria Polymniae E.  E. On leaves of Folymnia Uveclalla Nuttallburg West Va. July 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
543.
Spots scattered angular limited by the veinlets 24 mm.
diam. dirty green.
Perithecia epiphyllous minute 75.
diam.
 scattered innate inconspicuous.
Sporules filiform continuous 3550 x 1U'.. Septoria hyalina E.  E. On Viola lanceolata Massachusetts Miss Clarke on V. primulafolia West Va. Nuttall and on V. hlanda Michigan Hicks.
Spots minute 1 mm.
 white with a dark purpleshaded border.
Perithecia punctiform black epiphyllous subglobose 6575'.
diam. not abundant.
Sporules filiform nearly straight or slightly curved.
hyaliue uucleate not visibly septate 2040 mostly 2535 x 1S. Violce West has yellowishbrown perithecia on pale zonate spots with a reddishbrown border.
Septoria micropuncta E.  E. On leaves of Osmorrhiza Washington D. C. 1891
E. A. Southworth.
Spots small II2 mm.
 subangular white with a broad dark colored border.
Sporiiles cylindrical slightly curved not septate or visibly nucleate 1827 x lila.
This is very different from S. Osmorrhizce Pk.
which has the spots larger perithecia also larger subdiscoid and amber colored and sporules 3555 x 22J. uniseptate.
Septoria Megarrhizae E.  E. On leaves of Megarrhiza Oregana Benton Wash. July 14 1892 C. V. Piper No.
112 partly.
Spots orbicular dirty white with a broad dark colored border 35 mm.
diam.
Perithecia epiphyllous light colored innatesubprominent subastomous thin SOllOJt diam.
Sporules filiform nearly straight hyaline faintly nucleolate 4060x223'.. Phleospora Megarrhizae E.  E. Same host and collector as Septoria Megarrhizce.
Spots greenish at first the central portion 13 mm.
diam. 
becoming dirty white with a faint dark purple margin.
Perithecia epiphyllous subdiscoid thin perforated above light colored becoming darker 150 diam.
Sporules oblong obtuse 13septate hyaline sometimes narrowed in the middle 1327 x 68.
Distinguished from Septoria Megarrhizoe even without microscopical examination by its much smaller subangular white spots.
Phlyctaena IpomoBa E.  E. On calyx lobes of Ipomcea pandurata Nuttallburg West Va. Dec. 1893 L. W. Nuttall No.
250.
Perithecia scattered subcuticular 7580 diam. covered by the blackened slightly raised epidermis.
Sporules linear hyaline curved above 1520 x 11.
Hysteromyxa corticola E.  E. On inner surface of old Cottonwood bark Rockport Ks. Dec. 1893 E. Bartholomew No.
1306.
25 Perithecia erumpent superficial gregarious membranaceous yellowishbrown and pustuliform when fresh collapsing to concave nearly flat when dry and then darker colored the disk or center with a faint fleshcolored tint 43 mra.
diam.
Sporules globose 68'jdiam. yellowish with a tinge of rose color.
Difi'ers from H. effugietis S.  E. in its different habitat and the darker color of the perithecia.
Dothichiza Cassandrae E.  E. On dead limbs of Cassandra ealyeulata Ann Arbor Mich. May 1894 L. N. Johnson No.
1591'.
Perithecia erumpent surrounded by the ruptured epidermis ovateglobose and closed at first i mm.
diam. then irregularly ruptured and subcupulate '.
mm.
diam.
Sporules fusoid hyaline continuous straight acute 1014 x22i'.
Apparently the spermogonia stage of Cenangium Cassandrce Pk.
Gloeosporium tremuloides E.  E. On leaves of Populus tremuloides Racine Wis. Sept. 1893 Dr. J. J. Davis.
Spots amphigenous suborbicular scattered or subcoufluent definite dark brown 24 mm.
diam.
Acervuli innate globose or oblong 7585.
diam.
 dark erumpent on both sides of the leaf often C'jvered above by the loosened silvery epidermis.
Conidia elliptical 1013x526 2. continuous.
G. Treiniike G. Sihiricum and G. Populialbce have fusoid or cylindrical conidia  G. icevioides Romell  Sacc.
Grev.
21 p. 68 has ovateoblong conidia 3085x1012 so that this seems sufficiently distinct from all the other species on poplar leaves.
Gloeosporium officinale E.  E. On leaves of Sassafras officinale Smyrna Del. June 1894 Commons No.
2438.
Spots irregular in shape 5I cm.
diam. dirty whitish in the center with the border nearly black.
Acervuli minute numerous innate erumpent on both sides of the leaf lut more abundant below the expelled spores forming little subglobose pale orange colored suhconfluent heaps.
Spores oblong or clavateoblong or ovate 815 X 45.
This is quite distinct from Gl.
Sassafras Cke  Gl.
affiue E.  K. in its much larger spores and the different character of tlie spots.
If as seems probable Phyllosticta affinis E.  K. in Am.
Nat. Nov. 1883 is the same as Ph.
Sassafras Cke.
in Grev. Sept. 1883 the specific name Sassafras will have precedence and affine already preoccupied by Saccardo will be dropped and Gl.
affine E.  K. will become Gl.
Sassafras Cke.
 the fungus being a Gloeosporium and not a Phyllosticta.
Gloeospormm Sanguinariae E.  E. On leaves of Sanguinaria Canadensis Nuttallburg West Va. July 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
555.
Spots yellow oblong or irregular 35 mm.
diam. situated near tiie apex of the leaf which is more or less uniformly blackened.
Acervuli epiphyllous numerous innate yellow and inconspicuous.
Conidia oblong hyaline continuous mostly a little curved 815 x 35i.
Gloeosporium alboferrugineum E.  E. On leaves of Acer saccharinum Peoria Ills. July 1894 F. E. McDonald.
Spots numerous small subangular partly limited by the veinlets.
12 mm.
diam. deep reddishbrown whitening out.
Acervuli 100150 diam. hypophyllous becoming dark.
Conidia oblong hyaline continuous 1214x33j'.
Differs from G. saccharinum E.  E. in habit and in its conidia twice as long as in that species.
GloBOsporium Trillii E.  E. On leaves of Trillium sessile Berkeley Cala. April 2 1894 W. C. Blasdale No.
212.
Spots amphigenous scattered small 12 mm.
 dirty white leaf becoming yellowish around them finally subconfluent causing the leaf to wither and die.
Acervuli epiphyllous rather large yellowish erumpeut often only one in the center of the spot.
Conidia oblongcylindrical slightly curved 1015 mostly 1012 x 23.. Gloeosporium serotinum E.  E. On leaves of Prunus serotina Smyrna Del. June 1894 A. Commons No.
2439.
Spots suborbicular 310 mm.
diam. deep brickred definite soon confluent covering the entire leaf which is then of a deep redbrick color.
Acervuli amphigenous numerous flesh color.
Conidia oblong straight obtuse 1215x45.
Differs from G. pruaicolum E.  E. J. M.
III. p. 129 principally in the much larger conidia.
Myxosporium seriatum E. fe E. On maple bark Nuttallburg West Va. June 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
523.
Nuclei pallid orbicular about 1 mm.
diam. seated on the surface of the inner bark  surrounded by a thin layer of smoky colored radiating hyphse from the inner extremities of which the botuliforra or oblong 68x22i'. hyaline conidia are produced.
The nuclei are seriately arranged and the pale fleshcolored flattish cirrhi are erumpent through narrow longitudinal cracks in the bark.
Myxosporium platanicclum E.  E. On dead limbs of Platanus Nuttallburg West Va. April 1894 L. W. Nuttall 467.
Acervuli subcutaneous vesiculoid pale 1 mm.
diam. raising the ruptured epidermis into pustules but not erumpent.
Sporules oval or oblongovate hyaline nucleate at first 1012 x 56 on stout basidia.
CoUetotrichum Ehexice E.  E. On leaves of Rhexia Virginica Kimensi Del. Aug. 25 1894 Commons No.
2534.
Spots orbicular small 12 mm.
 dirty white with a reddishpurple border.
Acervuli mostly epiphyllous spheriteform erumpent 250350' diam. surrounded or clothed with black bristlelike hairs 6070x331.. Sporules oblong obtuse binucleate about 12x4 and very short basidia.
Cylindrosporium Crataegi E.  E. On leaves of CraUegus Nuttallbuig West Va.. July 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
571.
Leaves more or less mottled with rusty red at length uniformly of this .same color.
Acervuli innate erumpent on both sides and whitening the surface of the leaf with abundantly discharged conidia which are 75100 x 33j nearly straight or more or less undulate and curved nucleate and faintly 35septate.
Cylindrosporium ulmicolum E.  E. On leaves of Ulmus alata Starkville Miss. Nov. 1893 Prof S. M. Tracy.
Acervuli numerous small pale buried in yellowish faded areas of the leaf visible from above but erumpent below.
Conidia cylindrical moderately curved slightly narrowed toward the ends hyaline multinucleate 4565 x 4 expelled in small white tufts on the lower side of the leaf Melanconium stenosporum E.  E. On bark of Carya Ohio Morgan No.
1002.
Stroma subcuticular sunk in the surface of the inner bark orbicular 12 mm.
diam. convex white inside but covered by a layer of the narrow brown oblong slightly curved 1315 x 34.
Conidia which are erumpent in black hemispherical finally flattened heaps or masses 12 mm.
diam.
Melanconium acerinum E.  E. On dead limbs of Acer maerophyUmn Pasadena Gala.
Prof. A. J. McClatchie.
Acervuli buried in the bark convex orbicular 11 5 mm.
diam. raising and rupturing the epidermis.
Conidia ovate nearly opake 20 X 15.
Marsonia Wyethise E.  E. On leaves of Wyetkia glabra Santa Rosa Cala.
 May 1894 W. C. Blasdale.
Acervuli amphigenous but mostly hypophyllous small 6575a orbicular erumpent nearly white at first becoming flesh color crowded in small angular patches mostly limited by the veinlets of the leaf which in these places soon becomes brown the brown color finally spreading over a great part of or over the entire leaf Conidia oblongovate hyaline uniseptate scarcely constricted 1827 x 1013.
Marsonia Fraserse E.  E. On leaves of Frasera thyrsiflora Latah Co. Idaho July 1892 C. V. Piper No.
133.
Spots orbicular yellowishbrown i 1 cm.
or more diam. with a broad dark colored border.
Acervuli scattered irregularly on the spots erumpent above 150200 diam. pale.
Conidia oblongcylindrical hyaline uniseptate and more or less constricted at the septum 1220 x 56' ends obtuse.
Marsonia Veratri E.  E. On leaves of Veratrum Californicum Pullman Washington Aug. 1893 C. V. Piper No.
158.
Spots amphigenous small 23 mm.
 whitish with a broad dullpurple border which is often elongated in the direction of the veins of the leaf for 23 cm. with the ends acute finally more or less confluent the entire leaf becoming brown and dead.
Acervuli small occupying the centre of the spots or irregularlj' scattered over them.
Conidia clavatecylindrical curved upper end subtruncate lower end attenuated and subacute uniseptate hyaline 1822 x 335..
This is not to be confounded with Cylindrospormm veratrinnm Sacc.
 Winter or with Ascochyta veratrina E.  E. Pestalozzia zonata E.  E. On decaying fruit of Cydonia Newfield N. J.  Sept. 1890.
Acervuli subepidermal punctiform black raising the cuticle into small pustules scattered on concentrically zoned decaying spots on the fruit.
Conidia fusoid 4septate slightly constricted at the septa the two end cells conical and hyaline the apical one crowned with a spreading crest of three hyaline bristles 1525 long the two cells next below quite dark so as to obscure the septum between them the cell next below these nearly hyaline.
Pedicels very short.
Pestalozzia Polygoni E.  E. On living leaves of Polygonum Virginianum Stanton Del. Aug. 1894 Commons No.
2560.
Spots dull brickred very irregular in shape and size mostly elongated 210 x 14 mm. definite but without any colored border.
Acervuli punctiform black suberumpent epiphyllous scattered.
Conidia cylindrical or fusoidcylindrical pale 34septate and more or less constricted at the septa which are often indistinct 1822 x 4 end cells rounded lower one with a short slender pedicel upper one bearing a crest of three spreading bristles 1015.
long.
Pestalozzia toxica E.  E. On leaves of Rhus Toxicodendron Nuttallburg West Va. Aug. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
567 partly.
Spots and perithecia as in Phyllosfida rhoicola E.  E. Sporules clavateoblong 4septate 1215 x 45 3 intermediate cells pale brown end cells short conical hyaline the upper cell with a crest of 3 short spreading hyaline bristles 67' long.
Distance between the two extreme cells 12.
Pedicels shorter than the spores.
Coryneum oupulatum E.  E. On dead limbs of Tsuga Canadensis Nuttallburg West Va. Dec. 1893 L. W. Nuttall No.
272.
1894.
NAI'lHAI SCIKNCES OK PH I LADEI.PHIA.
'75 Eriimpent superficial.
Acervuli tuberculiform black 11 2 mm.
diam. hollowed out so as to be cupshaped above.
Conidia clavate sessile 69septate brown 6080 x 1215.
Coryneum abietinum E.  E. On bark of fir trees.
Exploits Newfoundland May 1894 Rev.
A. C. Waghorn No.
35.
Acervuli erumpent flat rovnishblack IJS mm.
across surrounded by the upturned epidermis.
Conidia pale brown fusoidobloug 34septate about 20 x 10 on pedicels of about the same length.
     HYPHOMYCETES.
Bctrytis torta E.  E. On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri Nuttallbiirg West Va.  Dec. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
257.
Hyphse simple sparingly branched twisted above as in B. streptothrlx or in Streptothrix atra B.
 C brown 80100 x 34 forming numerous small brownishblack tufts eflused or gregarious on both sides of the leaf.
Conidia elliptical brown 56J x 332..
Differs from B. streptothrix C.  E. in its much smaller conidia and more dwarfish growth.
Ovularia Vancouverise E.  E. On leaves of Vancouveria hexandr a Cazadero Gala. May 1894 W. C. Blasdale No.
213.
Spots amphigenous angular limited by the veinlets 12 mm.
diam. dark brown above paler below.
Hyphse hypophyllous fasciculate simple 3035x3 appearing like a white pruinose coating.
Conidia varying from acutely elliptical to oblong and from 1020x46.. Not to be confounded with 0.
Berheridis Cke.
Ramularia Castilleiae E.  E. On leaves of Castilleia miniata Mts.
of Skamania Co. Wash. Aug. 10 1886 W. N. Suksdorf No.
288.
On subferruginous indefinite spots 23 mm.
diam.
Hyphae hyaline simple mostly thickened above 1525 x 34 arising from a tubercular base from which they project on all sides forming light flesh colored sphperiseform tufts and bearing at their tips the narrowelliptical oblong or cylindrical hyaline continuous or uniseptate 1525 x 34A conidia.
The Raniularia occupies the central part of the spots and is surrounded by subprominent black small immature perithecia with which it appears to be generically connected.
Ramularia Psoraleae E.  E. On leaves of Psoralea macrostaehya Ukiah Mendocino Co. Gala. May 1894 W. C. Blasdale No.
221.
Spots small round pale rusty brown 12 mm.
diam.
Hyphse fasciculate simple or sparingly branched above hyaline becoming brownish continuous or faintly 18septate subgeniculate above.
Conidia fusoid hyaline uniseptate and often slightly constricted rather abruptly narrowed at the ends 1230 x ooJ.
Ramularia contexta E.  E. On living leaves of Menisperimim Canadense Ann Arbor Mich. Aug. 1885 Prof. V. M. Spalding.
Hyphe slender hyaline interwoven so as to form a thin subseparable weblike layer subangular in outline 12 ram.
across dirty white at first becoming whiter and thicker.
Fertile hyphse erect 1525 X 22J continuous mostly simple.
Conidia clavatefusoid hyaline continuous at first becoming 1septate 815 x 23.
Has something the aspect of Erineum.
Helicoma monilipes Ell.
 Johnson.
On oak bark Ann Arbor Mich. Oct. 1893 L. N. Johnson No.
666.
Ciespitose in minute punctiforra brown tufts about  mm.
diam. appearing under the lens like minute flattened perithecia of about the same color as the bark.
Creeping hyphre nearly obsolete  fertile hyphjie cespitose erect nearly hyaline irregularly or subdichotomously branched above closely septate and constricted at the septa so as to appear submoniliform 4050 x 34.
Conidia terminal or becoming lateral by the prolongation of the hyphie pale brown closely and permanently involute forming a coil 1215 diam. the cylinder or thread which forms the coil being 34 thick and coiled about IJ times.
Chastopsis roseola E.  E. On oak bark Ann Arbor Mich. March 1894 L. N. Johnson No.
156.
Mycelium inconspicuous or none.
Fertile hyphjje simple erect straight septate subulate paler and attenuated above 200250 long browa.
Brauches issuing from tlie middle portion of the hyphffi spreading simple or 2oparted hyaline at first becoming brown 1530 x 22 faintly septate bearing at their tips the cylindrical hyaline straight obtuse 34nucleate 810 x l22.
conidia.
The effused hyphe appear like a thin pale rosecolored pubescence on the bark.
Closely allied to C. stachyobola Sacc but the color is different the branches often divided and the hyphse not perceptibly swollen at the base.
Stachylidium carioinum E.  E. On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
335.
Hyphse fasciculate brown septate 600700 x Sis simple or occasionally forked above towards the top with shortcylindrical hyaline branches opposite or in whorls of thiee beaiing at their tips the elliptical hyaline 45 x 122 conidia collected into a globose head 1012 diam.
Coniosporium microsporum E.  E. n. sp.
On dead herbaceous stems Senecio triangularis Medicine Bow Kange Colo. July 1894 Prof C. S. Crandall No.
23.
Acervuli at first covered by the thin epidermis soon erurapent 13 mm.
diam. black consisting of a mass of minute 3 globose olivebrown conidia.
Torula Tracliytora sporodesmoides E.  E. On bark of dead limbs Pasadena Cala.
 Jan. 1894 Prof A. J. McClatchie No.
622.
Pulvinate or subeffused pulvinuli hemispherical sooty black if mm.
diam.
Creeping mycelium scanty hyaline at first sending up short fertile branches from which the concatenate conidia are formed by constriction.
Conidia elliptical 810 x 56 nniseptate but not constricted yellowishbrown at first becoming nearly opake and distinctly roughened.
Often where 2 or more threads lie in contact the cells of the different threads become laterally connate forming irregularly shaped aggregations of conidia resembling Sporodesmiiim.
This differs from T. dimidiata Penz.
in the nniseptate rough conidia.
Fusicladium Staticis E.  E. On living leaves of Sfatice Limonmrn dwe May N J. Sept. 1894 Commons No.
2565.
Spots orbicular 25 mm.
diam. purplish at first then rubigiuou with a purplish border becoming paler in the center and finally subdeciduous.
Hyphse epiphyllous fiiseiculate 4060x4 brown septate subgeniculate above.
Conidia oblong with the ends obtusely pointed subolivaceous 1exceptionally 2 septate 1016x34.
The tufts of hyphse are crowded in the central part of the spots.
Fusicladium Aplectri E.  E. On leaves of Aplectrnm hyemrile Naaman's Creek Del. Apr.
1894 Commons No.
2408.
Spots irregular whitish with a shaded purple border 1 m. diam.
Hyphe fasciculate olivaceous simple 23septate 6575 x 56 mostly twisted or abruptly bent at the tips olivebrown.
Conidia terminal elliptical greenish granular continuous at first becoming 1septate 1215x67.
Cladosporium aterrimum E.  E. On rotten wood Rockport Ks. Nov. 1893 Bartholomew No.
1256.
At first densely tufted tufts soon effused forming an oliveblack velvety stratum 1 or more cm.
in extent.
Fertile hyphe slender sparingly septate 100150x22' nearly straight simple.
Conidia terminal at first elliptical 35.
long and continuous then oblongcylindrical uniseptate 57x2 ends obtuse.
Probably the subiculum of some Pyrenomycete.
C. lignatile Schw.
is said to have the hyphse very short  brevissimis .
Cercospora Cercosporella albomaculans E.  E. On leaves of Brasslca eampestris Berkeley Cala. Feb. 1894 W. C. Blasdale No.
201.
Spots suborbicular white with a narrow darker margin .1 cm.
diam.
Hyphre amphigenous tufted short 812x2 hyaline continuous.
Conidia cylindrical hyaline straight or slightly curved of about equal thickness throughout 4065 x22i' becoming faintly 3septate.
The tufts are very minute.
Distinguished from the other species on Cruciferce by its large white spots and cylindrical conidia which resemble the sporules of Septoria.
1894.
XATnAI.
SCIENCES OK PHILADEJPIIIA.
379 Cercospora Cercosporella Fraserae E. it E. Ou leaves of Frasera speciosa mountains west of Bear Valley.
Colo. July 1894 Prof. C. S. Craudall No.
65.
Spots lare Al cm.
 pale brown with a narrow black border.
Hyphse in scattered tufts appearing under the lens like minute pale white granules continuous hyaline 1520x3.
Conidia gradually attenuated above hyaline faintly 14septate 80110 x 33.
The general appearance is about the same as that of Marsonia Frasercn E.  E.  but this is quite a diffei'cnt thing.
Cercospora Borreriea E.  E. On leaves of Borreria micrcmtha Biloxi Miss. July 1893 Prof. S. M. Tracy.
Hypophyllous.
Tufts effused forming a thin olivaceous coating.
Hypha
slender undulate or crisped and geniculate 100120x3Sip. brown nucleate and indistinctly and sparingly septate.
Conidia slender lanceolate hyaline 35septate 3545 x 335.
Cercospora ribicola E.  E. Ou leaves of Ribes sanguineum Seattle Wash. Aug. 1893 C. V. Piper No.
81.
Spots numerous subangular and partly limited by the veinlets definite but without any distinct border redrusty brown 24 mm.
diam.
Tufts mostly epiphyllous sphseriseform not eifused appearing like small clustered superficial perithecia.
Hypha
densely fasciculate pale brown continuous simple 2535 x 354.
Conidia lanceolate hyaline nucleate and 13septate 3580 x 34.
Quite different from C. marginalis Thum.
Well characterized by its redbrown spots and sphseriseform tufls of hyphse.
Cercospora Cirsii E.  E. On Cnicus remotifolius  Skamania Co. Wash. Aug. 1886 W. N. Suksdorf No.
291.
Spots dark brown paler below suborbicular 35 mm.
diam.
or by confluence irregular and larger often marginal definite.
Hyphte epiphyllous tufted the small black tufts thickly covering the spots short simple pale brown nearly entire 1530x34.
Conidia slender hyaline 46septate 5080 x 3i.
Cercospora Baccharidis E.  E. On Baceharis Douglasii Berkeley Cala. June 1894 W. C. Blasdale No.
254.
Tufts effused at liist ou irregular areas of the green leaf partly bounded by the veinlets the part of the leaf occupied soon becoming brown and dead.
Hyphoe densely cespitose simple hyaline mostly continuous 2540 x 5.
Couidia cylindrical hyaline obtuse at the ends l33eptate often constricted at the septa.
The tufts of hyphse are of a pale rose color nearly white and are found on both sides of the leaf Cercospora melanochasta E.  E. On leaves of Celastrus scandens Louisville Kansas Oct. 1893 E. Bartholomew No.
1210.
Spots amphigenous slaty black with the center whitish and the margin shading off into rusty brown suborbicular 1 cm.
diam.
Hyphne dark brown septate subundulate above 4060x34 forming dense sphseriseform tobaccobrown tufts on the whitish center of the spots on both sides of the leaf.
Conidia clavatecylindrical brown 358eptate 4070 x 45.
The dark part of the spots especially below is covered with numerous black sterile perithecia.
Cercospora columnare E.  E. On dried up leaves of Phaseolus cult.
 Newfield N. J. Sept. 1894.
Amhigeuous but mostly hypophyllous.
Hyphse erect fasciculate forming a compact bundle or tuft like Isariopsis 150230 x 4 brown sparingly septate.
Conidia oblongcylindrical 15septate not constricted brownish mostly a little curved 4060 x 56.
C. Phaseoloruiii Cke.
is said to have the hyphge short  abbreviatis   which can hardly apply to this.
Cercospora Enotherse E.  E. On leaves of GEnothera hiemm Nuttallburg West Va.  Oct. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
599.
Spots irregular mostly elongated grayishbrown subangular 35 x 23 mm.
 subconfluent.
HyphtTe amphigenous subhyaline continuous or faintly 12septate 1520 x 3 in minute scattered tufts few in a tuft spreading subundulate.
Conidia linear or only slightly attenuated above smokyhyaline nucleate and faintly 35or moreseptate 2580 x 22J'. straight or only slightly curved.
Cercospora Merrowi E.  E. On Isopynmi hiteniatum Ann Arbor Mich. Oct. 1893 Harriet L. Merrow.
Hypophyllous on dead blackened parts of the leaves.
Hyphte loosely tufted subeffused simple clavate continuous 1530 x 4 yellowish to the naked eye nearly hyaline under the microscope.
Conidia 13septate hyaline 1560 x 46j.
The shorter ones are cylindrical and mostly 1septate and resemble the conidia of Ramularia Actaxi' but the longer ones are narrowed above and 3or more 
septate.
Cercospora Briareus E.  E. On leaves of Acerates viridifiora near Elkton Md. Aug. 1894 Commons No.
2537.
Spots amphigenous dull lividpurple small subelongated 13 x 1 mm. subindefinite or partly limited by the veinlets.
Hyphae amphigenous loosely tufted spreading subundulate simple equal olivebrown continuous or 13septate obtuse 3545 x 56.
Conidia slender 4080 x 324. 68septate nearly straight slightly brownish.
The spots especially on the under side of the leaf are not perceptible the hyphiB spreading over green areas of the leaf enclosed by the veinlets.
Heterosporium eaiilicolum E.  E. On dead stems of Rumex occidentalis North Park Colo. July 1894 Prof. C. S. Crandall No.
72.
Tufts effused.
Hypha
cespitose stout olivebrown under the microscope septate torulose subgeniculate above 80110x45.
Conidia elliptical or oblong pale yellowishbrown 13septate 1226 mostly about 15 x 71 Ov minutely echinulateroughened.
Appears like a coarse black pubescence on the stems.
Heterosporium sphseriseforme E.  E. On dead stems of Eriogomm Fort Collins Colo. C. F. Baker No.
270.
Hypha
as in H. caulicolum E.  E. but not as rigid and collected in dense scattered olivaceous sphserioeform tufts il mm.
diain. resembling a Fuccinia or Sphceria.
Conidia elliptical or oblong 14.
f mostly 12 septate 1230 x 812 minutely echinulateroughened pale yellowbrown.
Heterosporium Eucalypti E.  E. On dead leaves of Eucalyptus California Nov. 1893 A. J. McClatchie No.
542.
Hypophyllous forming small 12 mm.
 oliveblack orbicular patches scattered over the lower side of the leaf.
Hyphiv
subfasciculateetfused pale yellowishbrowu coutinuous or sparingly septate 7080 X 45j. geniculatesubimdulate slightly swollen at the tips.
Conidia oblongelliptical 12septate pale yellowish echiuulate 1527 X 1012.
Heterosporium oladosporioides E.  E. On brown paper exposed by the roadside Ann Arbor Mich. May 1894 L. N. Johnson No.
1599.
Maculiform.
Hypha erect subfasciculate brown 90110x45 ' septate subundulate or subnodulose above.
Conidia terminal hyaline and continuous at first then pale brown and minutely echiuulate 12septate 1016 x 57 not constricted.
The hyphaj form small black scattered patches about 2 mm.
diam.
Heterosporium Triliii E.  E. On leaves partly dead of Trillium ovatum Latah Co. Idaho July 1893 C. V. Piper No.
128.
Spots at first suborbicular gray with a whitish margin soon confluent overrunning and killing the leaves which then become rusty brown.
Hyphty fasciculate short 3050 x 56 variously toothed and shouldered above and more or less crooked sparingly septate.
Conidia oblongcylindrical 1230 x 58 13septate minutely echiuulate yellowbrown.
Maorosporium hybridum E.  E. On bark of decaying Sambucus glauca Pullman Wash. Oct. 1893 C. V. Pipe.r No.
151.
Forming black subelongated patches or irregularly scattered.
Hyphte cespitose olivebrown coarse 100110 x 67' geniculate and subtorulose above finally closely septate.
Conidia variable at first oblongelliptical and mostly uniseptate 815 x 57 pale yellowishbrown then oblong 23septate and constricted granular 1225 X 812.
Other conidia are globose 1215 sarcinuliforra with two septa crossing each other at right angles others again broadclavate 5 9septate and muriforra 5070 x 1215.
The members of this genus are so variable that we have ventured to describe onl' forms with marked and recognizable characters.
Maorosporium iridicolum E.  E. On leaves of Iris Missouriensis Moscow Idaho May 1894  Prof L. F. Henderson No.
2640.
Hyphaj short tufted obovateobloug contiauous 1215 x 56 pale yellowish.
Conidia clavate 510septate and muriform 40120 X 2025 including the stout cylindrical persistent stipe.
It is possible that what we have taken for hyphge are tufts of young conidia  if so the conidia aie sessile.
This is quite distinct from 3Iarrosporium Iridis C.  E. The tufts are at first scattered and distinct but finally confluent forfiiiug pulverulent black patches consisting entirely of the free conidia.
Macrosporium Pelargonii E.  E. On leaves of Pelargonium cult Pasadena Gala. Feb. 1894 Prof. A. J. McClatchie.
Spots orbicular 13 mm.
diam.
 greenish at first then rusty brown with a narrow raised margin causing them to appear discoid.
HyphiB amphigeuous but more abuudant above eff'used or sparingly fasciculate yellowbrown erect 23septate swollen at the tips 2530 X 56' bearing' the terminal obovate or subquadrate 3septate and muriform 2030 x 1822.
conidia which are mostly constricted at the middle septum and have no pedicel.
Macrosporium tabacinum E.  E. On leaves of tobacco North Carolina Oct. 1891 Prof. Gerald McCarthy INIissouri Miss Clendinin.
Spots amphigenous numerous small irregular or suborbicular definite thin white with a narrow raised margin 13 mm.
diam.
Hyphpe amphigenous fasciculate tufts effused septate geniculate above ferruginousbrown 3050 x 34 crooked and spreading.
Conidia obovateclavate stipitate 39septate and muriformly divided 5090 x .015'.
The smaller conidia are often without any stipe while the larger ones have a persistent stipe from 825 long.
This is closely allied to 31. candatum C.  E. It is called by the planters white speck and with Phyllosticta tabaci Pass is very injurious to the plants.
Macrosporium olivaceum E.  E. Parasitic on Sphcvropsis Asimince E.  E. on dead limbs of Admina triloba Nuttallburg West Va. March 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
388.
Forms a light olive veliitinous coat over the pustules of the SpJurropsis.
Hyphse tufted yellowishbrown under the microscope septate erect nearly straight or subundulate 80100 x 45.
Conidia obovate or obpiriforra 35septate and muriform brown 2438 X 1520 terminal sessile.
Conidia also occur subcubical or subglobose 1520 diara.
with 2septa crossing each other at right angles.
Sporodesmium fructigenum E.  E. On decaying apples.
Las Cruces New Mexico Oct. 1893 E. W. Wooton.
Appears like a thin dark colored velvety coating appearing first around the stem end but finally spreading over the greater part of the apple Conidia subglobose or elliptical stipitate yellowish and uniseptate at first finally nearly opake and muriform 1226'.
in the longer diameter.
The conidia have a berrylike structure like that of S. Rauii E.  H. or S. moriforme Pk.
The pedicels which are 1215 x SJt are deciduous.
Sporodesmium subcupulatum E.  E. On dead Sambucus melanocarpa Cameron Pass Colorado July 1894 C. F. Baker No.
236 partly.
At first tuberculiform minute ik mm.
diam.
 erumpent and surrounded by the ruptured epidermis becoming concave and often oblong 12 mm.
long o mm.
wide slaty black conidia olivaceous muriform subglobose 1015 diam. or subelliptical or clavateoblong 2030 X 1012 sessile or with a short thick pedicel.
In the concave stage the acervuli and conidia are paler.
Sporodesmium tuberouliforme E.  E. n. sp.
On dead stems of Sambucus racemosa near Rabbit Ear Pass N. W. Colo. alt.
10000 ft. July 1894 Prof C. S. Crandall No.
15.
Sporodochia tuberculiform black inside and out about 1 mm.
diam. flattened above.
Conidia irregular in shape and variable in size subcubical subglobose subelliptical consisting of 220 subglobose cells variously conglomerated so as to form the conidia 820 diam.
The tubercular mass consists almost entirely of the compacted conidia which are more perfectly developed in the superficial layer.
Podosporiella E.  E. n. gen. of Phczostilbece PhragmosporcB .
Stroma cellular soft not carbonaceous shortcylindrical.
Hyphse short simple arising from all parts of the stroma.
Conidia terminal oblong or cylindrical brown 2or moreseptate.
Differs from Podosporiuvi in its simple cellular stroma stipe.
Podosporiella humilis E.  E. On leaves of Garrya Veitchii Echo Mt. Cala. July 1894 Prof. A. J. McClatchie No.
736.
Spots orbicular brown with a definite dark margin 24 ram.
diam.
Stroraata hypophyllous scattered on the spots black shortcylindrical or coniccylindrical about 1 mm.
high and 2 mm.
thick of membrauaceocellular structure.
Hyphje spreading on all sides from the stroma pale brown simple continuous 1520x45'. bearing the terminal solitary oblongcylindrical palebrown uniseptate at first then 24septate 1527 x 67a conidia.
Illosporium csespitosum E.  E. On rotten wood Nuttallburg West Va. Dec. 1893 L. W. Nuttall No.
231.
Sporodochia globose 100110'.
diam. cespitose forming tufts about 1 mm.
diam.
Hyphoe 68 thick branched the branches curved or tortuous.
Conidia globose or ovate 6127.
diam.
Differs from I. coccinellum Cke.
in its color and larger cespitose sporodochia.
Illosporium album E.  E. On cypress bark Louisiana Langlois No.
284.
Sporodochia gregarious milkwhite ovate 140160x100110'.
Hyphte imperfectly defined free and mostly curved above united below into a coarsely cellular mass.
Conidia peripherical subglobose 810 diam.
Differs from I. palUdxim Cooke in its smaller sporodochia imperfectly defined hyphe and milkwhite color.
Trichaeg'um nodulosum E.  E. On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri Nuttallburg West Va.  Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
333.
Erumpent tufted becoming subeffused black tufts gregarious forming subvelutinous patches 24 mm.
across or when standing singly the hyphje and conidia forming a compact mass 5I mm.
diam. and resembling somewhat the sorus of a Puecinia.
Hyphse simple sparingly fasciculate brown septate often swollen at the 26 septa about 4 thick and 200300 long.
Conidia near the base of the hyphc at first elliptical yellowishhyaline iiniseptate 810x61 II soon becoming 46septate nuirif'orni and opake 1025.
diam. subglobose obovate or elliptical.
Pilacre gracilipes E.  E. On rotten wood Nuttallburg West Va. Dec. 1893 L. W. Nuttall No.
274.
Scattered stem slender whitepruinose 3 mm.
long i mm.
thick.
Head subhemispherical olivaceous about 1 mm.
diam.
Fertile hyphae hyaline dichotomously branched 2lhiJ.
thick bearing the conidia laterally.
Conidia globose or subglobose yellowbrown under the microscope 45j.
diam.
Smaller and of a more slender growth than P. Petersli B.
 C. Tubercularia hamata E.  E. On dead limbs of Celtis occidentalis Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
313.
Depressedhemispherical umbonate soon becoming black 214 mm.
diam.
Conidia oblong slightly curved hyaline 58 x 122 on slender simple sporophores 3040.
long incurved or involute at the tips.
Hymenula cerealis E.  E. On wheat straw Nuttallburg West Va. May 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
495.
Sporodochia gelatinous orbicular yellowishamber color becoming darker at first subpulvinate becoming depressed or flattened f mm.
diam.
Basidia slender 2530x11 simple or oftener branched the branches erect.
Conidia hyaline oblong minute 34x111.. Microcera erumpens E.  E. On dead limbs of Tsuga Canadensis Nuttallburg West Va. Feb. 1894 L. W. Nuttall No.
371.
Sporodochia depressedglobose 2 mm.
diam. at first covered by the epidermis soon exposed and bare orangered at length disappearing and leaving cupshaped cavities in the bark.
Conidia falcate nucleate and finally 3or moreseptate 7583 x 34. hyaline borne on short 2035 sporophores which are more or less branched above.
Differs from M. coccophila Desm.
in the shape of the sporodochia and their subcuticular origin.
