CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ZOOLOGY OF TENNESSEE.
No.
1 REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
The following is the first of a series of papers treating of the collections of Mammals Birds Reptiles and Mollusks made for the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by the writer during a trip through Tennessee in the months of May and June 1895.
Entering the northwestern corner of the State April 29th collecting was carried on at the following stations in order of sequence.
1.
Samburg Wheeling Obion County April 30th to May 6th a small village on the eastern shore of Reelfoot Lake at the mouth of Indian Creek.
This region lies at the foot of the Mississippi Bluff which makes its nearest approach to the lake at this point the strip of intervening land on which the village is built being about a quarter of a mile wide.
The bluff is precipitous rising more than 100 feet above the lake in this vicinity and clothed with fine forests of beech oak and chestnut the first largely predominating.
The bottom lands surrounding the lake increase in extent both north and south of the Indian Creek confluence and their whole extent to within a few rods of the bluff is annually flooded during high water in the Mississippi River.
The flora of these bottoms is of the most luxuriant description immense growths of of cypress cottonwood gum and maple fringing the shores and extending in unbroken areas back to the deforested crests of the escarpment.
Beneath these is an undergrowth of vines and cane which is almost impenetrable except where the annual brush firing by the farmers and woodsmen has opened a passage way or the grazing of sheep and cattle and the rooting of swine have destroyed the underbrush.
The lake itself is eighteen miles long its width varying from onehalf to three miles the greatest breadth being directly along a line passing a little north of west through Samburg.
It covers a region which prior to the earthquakes of 181112 was a heavily timbered swamp traversed by Reelfoot Creek which flowed south into the Mississippi and was interspersed with numerous ponds and bayous.
Owing to the convulsions at that period this tract was submerged partly by the subsidence of the swamp partly by the filling up of the outlet of the creek and thousands of acres of forested land were permanently flooded from one to ten feet in depth.
The original vigor of this splendid growth is still evidenced by the innumerable stumps and blasted tree trunks which stand in and out of the water in every direction and which render the navigation and fishing of these waters so vexatious to a novice and combiue to make the most weird and impressive bit of scenery to be found along the Mississippi Valley.
In such an environment we are not surprised to find animal life abounding in a remarkable degree.
Collecting at Samburg was confined to the immediate vicinity but observations and records were made on the route between the lake and Obion and Union City.
2.
Raleigh Shelby County April 8th to 14th.
A post village located on the banks of Wolf River nine miles east of Memphis.
The hilly uplands which surround the village rise above the alluvial bottoms and bayous of the river much as the same formation Bluff Loam or Loess does at Samburg and the faunal and floral peculiarities of the two regions are very nearly identical with perhaps a more obvious austral commingling than is presented at Reelfoot Lake.
Short bicycle expeditions of five to ten miles were made into the surrounding country east and west of Raleigh.
3.
Bellevue Davidson County May 17th to 24th.
A post village on Big Harpeth River twelve miles south of Nashville.
The vicinity of Bellevue lies within the western edge of the fertile central basin of middle Tennessee the country between it and Nashville closely resembling in soil topography and faunal and floral features the bluegrass region of Kentucky.
The soil is a disintegrated limestone with abundant rocky outcrop of the same and supports fine growths of poplar walnut ash oak hickory and chestnut.
A range of high hills runs east and west between Bellevue and Nashville separating the two branches of the Harpeth.
The mean elevation of this region is from 600 to 700 feet above sea level its mean depression below the Highland Rim lands lying westward between the central basin and the Tennessee River is from 300 to 400 feet.
Trips were made from Bellevue to Nashville and southward into adjoining parts of Williamson county.
4.
Chattanooga and Sawyer's Springs Hamilton County May 24th to June 2nd.
Owing to their proximity and the fact that my visit to Sawyer's Springs lay within the above dates May 28th 29th aud 30th I include both localities under one division.
Chattanooga lies between the southern base of Walden's Ridge belonging to the Cumberland Mountain system and the northern base of the Lookout Mountain range on the eastern bank of the Tennessee River.
Its elevation above the sea is about 800 feet  the elevation of Lookout Mountain being 1600 feet higher and that of Walden's Ridge about 1800 feet above the sea.
The Tennessee Valley at Chattanooga is much narrowed and circumscribed by the mountains.
The bottom lands are very fertile supporting formerly a heavy growth of poplar oak gum ash and walnut  among the foothills pines and chestnut oaks are abundant.
The valley formation is limestone  that of the mountains limestone overlaid by horizontal strata of the coal measures and topped by the sandstone tablelands which form the Cumberland plateau.
Sawyer's Springs is a health resort on Walden's ridge about twelve miles north of Chattanooga.
Its elevation and sandy soil present us with a marked change in climatic conditions as contrasted with the Tennessee Valley immediately below it.
Laurels rhododendrons and hemlocks fringe the streams oak chestnut holly juniper and shortleafed pines give the mountains much the aspect of such elevations in northeastern Pennsylvania and the fauna is of a similar character.
Walden's Ridge bounds the Tennessee Valley from Chattanooga northwest to and beyond Harrimau its precipitous walls formiug the eastern escarpment of the Cumberland plateau its width ranging from five to fifteen miles.
Collecting around Chattanooga was greatly facilitated by the use of a bicycle trips being made to the Georgia line up the Tennessee and up the valley on the western side of the river.
5.
Harrimau Roane County June 2nd to 5th.
A town on the east bank of Emory River near its junction with Clinch River situate among the foothills vt' the northern extension of Wahlen's Ridge at an elevation of 1200 feet.
The climate and natural productions of this region are much the same as those of the higher hills around Chattanooga.
The country around Harrinian is well wooded and some of the highest elevations of the Cumberland range in Tennessee are found to the north and west in Scott and Cumberland counties Cross Mountain being 3 300 feet above the sea.
A day's trip was made to Clinch River near Kingston at the junction of the Clinch and Tennessee rivers.
6.
Allardt Fentress County  June 5th to 8th.
A village on the Cumberland plateau five miles east of Jamestown the county seat.
The table land for many miles around Allardt is remarkably level and divides at this point the drainage north and south into the Cumberland and Tennessee rivers.
The soil is rather poor supporting a growth of oak chestnut and pine the latter often monopolizing large tracts.
The elevation may be estimated at an average of 1800 feet.
Records were made and some specimens taken on the bicycle trip from Sunbright Morgan County to Allardt and on the return journey from Allardt to Rugby Road in Scott County.
7.
Kuoxville Knox County  June 9th to 14th.
On the north bank of the Tennessee River three miles below the junction of the French Broad and Holston Rivers.
Owing to its elevation above the sea the mean temperature at Kuoxville is about the same as that of Philadelphia but the summers are cooler and winters milder.
The region is very similar to that of parts of the valley of East Tennessee already described the fauna and flora partaking more decidedly of the Alleghenian elements found in the outlying spurs of the Chilhowee and Bay Mountain ranges on the southwest.
Most of the region about Knoxville is fertile rolling limestone farm land with occasional barren outcrops and ridges covered with wood.
Several trips to the Holston River and one up the east bank of that river in the direction of Swampond Creek were made.
8.
Johnson City Washington County June 15th to 17th.
A picturesque town among the outlying ridges and foothills of the Great Smoky Mountains at the junction of the E. T.  W. N. C. Narrow Gauge Railway leading up into the Smoky Range with the Southern Railway System.
Animal and plant life show a decided admixture of species which abound on the distant mountain sides 1000 feet higher and some common eastern species not hitherto met with in the State are recorded.
Deciduous forests are the rule but lowland clearings are often covered with a dense growth of pines.
The elevation of Johnson City is not given in any work accessible to me but approximates 1400 feet.
9.
Roan Mountain Carter County June 18th to 23rd.
The Tennessee and North Carolina State line forms an acute angle on the summit of Roan Mountain the northwestern third of the peak belonging to Tennessee.
The elevation of the peak above Roan Mountain Station at is base is 3000 feet  the total elevation being 6394 feet.
Roan Mountain Station is twelve miles from the top of the mountain and the country lying between these points along the valley and canon of the Doe River formed the field of investigation in this region.
On the return journey a walk of thirty miles was taken down the headwaters of Rock Creek twelve miles and thence across to the Doe River Valley and Roan Mountain Station.
This ended the Tennessee trip so far as it related to field work in natural history.
On the summit of Roan Mountain we have a reproduction with local variations of the fauna and flora of the Canadian zone.
This gives place at a lower elevation of 4500 feet to 5000 feet above the sea to the deciduous flora of the Alleghenian region with a corresponding change in animal life and this gradation from the biological conditions of the north to those of the Carolinian fauna is illustrated in a wonderful manner as one descends the mountain and proceeds along the Doe River and valley to Johnson City.
The climatic conditions found on the summits of the Appalachian system in this region differ markedly from those found in New England and the Middle States in their greater humidity due to the frequent precipitation and presence of clouds and fog.
To a person who has visited both mountain systems there is a marked resemblance in this respect between the climatic conditions of the southern Alleghenies and those of the Cascade Range in Washington and British Columbia and the fauna and flora of the two show a like differentiation.
Another factor which probably has much to do with the peculiar biological features of this region is the equability of temperature.
Roan Mountain for example being always cool often cold but never hot in the sense of the extreme heat to be found in summer among the White Mountains neither are its plants and animals subjected to those frigid winter temperatures which their New England congeners must suffer.
In consequence there is a correlation in the animal and plant life of these distant localities without identity.
In some cases this variation amounts to specific values in others only subspecific but in all owing to their isolation the habitat is clearly definable.
Tennessee comprises within its limits an unusually varied topography and owing to its proximity in the west to the influence of the Gulf of Mexico by way of the Mississippi and in the east to the lofty mountain ranges the State presents a fauna and flora of great diversity and unusual interest to the biologist.
The greater pait of what is popularly known as West Tennessee is in the Louisianian fauna including all the country lying west of a line running north from Lawrenceburg Lawrence County to the intersection of the Kentucky state line by the Tennessee River.
Animals characteristic of this fauna which rarely if ever are found in Middle Tennessee are the two Marsh Hares Lepus aquations and L. palustris  a Cotton Rat
Sigmodon  a small Mole Shrew Blarina a large Deer Mouse Peromyseus the Swallowtailed Kite Eleanoides forficatus  Mississippi Kite Ictinia mississippiensis  Snake Bird Anhinga anhinga  Prothonotary Warbler Protonotaria citrea  Louisiana Treefrog Hyla cinerea semifasciata  Say's Chain Snake Ophibolus getulus sayi  Louisiana Triton Diemyctylus viridescens mridionalis  Cyclops Water Snake Natrix eyclopion and the Alligator Snapper Macroclemys lacertina.
From the western boundary of the Louisianian fauna as above defined the whole of Middle and East Tennessee below an altitude of 30U0 feet is included in the Carolinian fauna.
Characteristic animals of this fauna in Tennessee are the Opossum Didelphys marsupialis  Pine Mouse Microtus pinetorum  Least Mole Shrew Blarina 
and typical forms of the eastern Deer Mouse Gray Squirrel Wood Rabbit and the Gray Fox also the Acadian Flycatcher Empidonax acadicus  Yellowbreasted Chat Icteria wrens Kentucky Warbler Geothlypis formosa  Bluewinged Warbler Helminthophila pinus and Bewick's Wren Thryothorus Zoogeographic nomenclature used is that of Dr. J.
A. Allen.
Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
N.
Hist. IV Art.
XIV 1892. beivickii.
Among reptiles may be mentioned the Pinetree Lizard Sceloporus undulatus  Nebulous Toad Engy stoma corolinense  Pilot Snake Coluber obsoletiis and Box Tortoise Terrapene Carolina.
Many of these are found in the Louisianian fauna but attain their maximum development and numbers in the Carolinian.
Elevations between 3000 and 5000 feet in the Cumberland Plateau and the Unaka and Great Smoky Mountain systems of East Tennessee are in the Alleghenian fauna.
Some of the representative animals of this area are the Red Squirrel Seiurus hudsonius  Mole Shrew Blarina talpoides  Brown Shrew Sorex personatus  Canadian Warbler Sylvania canadensis Least Flycatcher Empidonax minimus  Wilson's Thrush Turdus fuscescens  Dusky Salamander Amblystoma jejfersonianum  Black Salamander Desmognathus nigra and northern Spring Frog Rana clamitans melanota.
On the highest mountain tops in the evergreen timber belt above 5000 feet elevation are found a few animals whose position belongs more strictly to the Canadian than the Alleghenian fauna.
These are the Mountain Deer Mouse Peromyscus 1 Great Redbacked Vole Evotomys carolinensis Bog Vole Synaptomys t  Winter Wren Troglodytes hiemalis  Goldencrowned Kinglet Regulus satrapa and Common Crossbill Loxia c. minor.
A few of the Alleghenian reptiles extend into the Canadian fauna to the very summit of Roan Mountain.
The following annotated list of the reptiles and amphibians of Tennessee includes only those species collected by me during the recent trip.
To this is added a list of twentyfive species not observed by me of which there exist authentic records as having been observed or taken in the State.
I have also appended a let of twentynine species of which we have no Tennessee record but which are likely to be found there.
There is no area of similar extent in the eastern United States whose zoology is so little known as that of Tennessee.
State geological surveys with the exception of those of Gerard Troost published between the years 1835 and 1838 have made no attempt to treat of the fauna and flora of Tennessee nor can we find in zoological literature anything which can be said to have reference to the State in a faunal sense.
I have been aided in making out the list of additional recorded species of reptiles and amphibians by reference to Dr. Holbrook's Herpetology and to the checklists of Yarrow and Cope of the collections in the National Museum.
I have largely adopted the nomenclature and sequence of orders and genera used by Professor Garman in his valuable Synopsis of the Reptiles and Amphibians of Illinois.
The code of nomenclature of the American Ornithologist's Union is responsible for any apparent idiosyucracies of names or spelling that may appear.
The collection numbers 270 specimens classed as follows  CheIonia 45 Sauria 27 Ophidia 46 Anura 63 Urodela 89.
So far as I have been able to discover the whole number of species and subspecies of Reptilia and Amphibia recorded from Tennessee is 77 of which 52 are represented in the collection besides these there are about 30 species which are likely to be found in the State limits making the approximate number of Tennessee species and subspecies 107.
REPTILIA.
 Order CHELONIA.
Family EMYIDJE.
Genus TEBRAPENE Menem.
1.
Terrapene Carolina L..
Box Tortoise.
Not observed in west Tennessee but found in the middle and eastern districts and abounding among the foothills of the Cumberlaud and Great Smoky mountain ranges.
Mr. W. E. Taylor bus recently 1 suggested that Kentucky and Tennessee specimens of this animal may possibly be entitled to rank as a variety of T. Carolina.
If by variety a geographic race or subspecies is meant the five specimens recorded below show that such a conclusion would be untenable the individual variations of Tennessee Box Tortoises being as numerous and undefinable as those of a like series from the Middle States.
A large specimen from Chattanooga has an ebony black plastron the unkeeled carapace is of the same ground with numerous spots and small irregular figures of gold scattered over each plate marginal plates each with a large orange spot top of head and anterior surfaces of fore legs yellow spotted.
Two younger specimens from 1 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVII 1895 p. 5789.
Bellevue are of the orange and black type with yellow and black plastron and strongly marked keel typical of eastern examples of same age and the same color pattern is exhibited by the adult specimens from Johnson City in which the keel has almost disappeared.
Specimens  Bellevue 2 Chattanooga 1 Johnson City 2.
Genus PSETJDEMYS Gray.
2.
Pseudemy3 elegans Maxim.
Wied.
Wied's Turtle.
Very abundant at Reelfoot Lake as attested by numerous shells lying about the marshes.
The young from one to two inches in diameter were swarming in the tributaries of the lake.
In all of these the red neckstripe was strongly marked.
Of numerous large turtles seen in the Wolf River bottoms near Raleigh some were probably of this species.
Specimens  Samburg 2 ad.
 15juv.
3.
Pseudemys concinna Le C. .
Le Conte's Turtle.
A specimen from the Wolf River has remarkably long slender nails on the three inner toes of the fore feet the fourth being quite short.
Specimens  Raleigh 1 ad.
 Samburg 1 juv.
Family KINOSTERWIDJE.
Genus KINOSTERNON Spix.
4.
Kinosternon pensylvanicum Gmel..
Mud Turtle.
One adult specimen from Reelfoot Lake is not distinguishable from the typical eastern examples of this species.
Specimen  Samburg 1.
Genus AROMOCHELYS Gray.
5.
Aromochelys odoratus Latr.
.
Musk Turtle.
Specimens  Samburg 1 Chattanooga 1.
6.
1 
Aromochelys carinatus Gray.
Carinated Musk Turtle.
A Musk Turtle collected in Emory River at Harriman Roane County is very doubtfully referred to this species.
Description  Carapace strongly keeled convex rounded and serrate posteriorly and covered throughout with imbricated plates.
Posterior borders of marginal and dorsal plates acute strongly produced forming a serrate dorsal and posterior outline.
Plastron subtriangular widely truncate anteriorly narrowed and ernarginate ventrally.
Minute gular plate scarcely projecting beyond anterior margins of postgulars the latter squarely cut in front their lateral apices each forming the apex of an ohtuse angle whose anterior side is formed by the transverse anterior face of the postgular and the oblique lateral face of the pectoral plate.
Pectoral plates rhomboidal their median suture longer than the anterior pectogular suture and their posterior pectoabdominal suture equalling the length of the lateral margin of the plate.
Abdominal plates rhomboidal transversely elongate their lateral margins slightly convex posterior margins truncate.
Upper mandible emarginate with a well defined hook.
A triangular emarginate rostral shield reaches median line of orbits.
A pair of barbels at symphysis of lower jaw the cervical folds and tubercles nearly obsolete.
Crown and rostrum olive blackspotted rest of dermal surface bluishwhite the upper head and neck streaked and spotted with irregular black lines.
Two black bands pass back from the eye across and above tympanum and join on foreneck reachiug thence to forearm continuous black stripes above and below this reach from the temples and base of mandibles to base of neck.
Superior surface of legs and feet and tail irregularly marbled with black.
Plastron mandibles and claws olive yellow.
Plates of carapace olive with black margins.
The skull viewed laterally shows a depressed interorbital convex frontal and depressed occipital profile.
Measurements Length of plastron median 41 mm.
 greatest width of bridge interaxillar width 35.5 width of carapace between anterior margins of seventh pair of marginal plates 53.
Greatest length of skull 23 greatest width of skull 14.5.
The specimen above described was found dead in the Emory river and had evidently just been thrown there by one of the numerous urchins who were fishing near the place.
The anterior half of the carapace was missing.
The animal was apparently twothirds grown.
A comparison with several alcoholic specimens of A. odoratui of the same age taken near Philadelphia by Dr. Jos.
Leidy shows so many decided peculiarities in the Tennessee example that I have been almost induced to give it a new name.
The most prominent of these is the truncated shape of the plastron and the rhombic outlines of the abdominal and pectoral plates the former wholly lacking the deeply cleft emargination of the axillary border.
The shape of the skull is quite different and the carinated and serrate carapace and peculiar coloration very marked.
From A. carinatus it is distinguished by its dermal coloration though it resembles it in the imbrication of the carapace.
Not having specimens of carinatus I am unable to make the necessary comparisons but I find Professor Boulenger's diagnosis of that species taken from Gray's types to correspond too closely to the Harriman specimen to warrant naming it anything else.
Professor Garman states that carinatus has no stripes on sides of head which my specimen has.
The southwestern habitat of carinatus is another reason for suspicion that the Harriman turtle is distinct.
Family CHELYDRIME.
Genus CHELYDRA Schweigger.
7.
Chelydra serpentina L..
Snapping Turtle.
This species abounds at low altitudes throughout the State.
Specimeus  Samburg 6juv.
 Johnson City 1 ad.
Family TRIONYCHIDJ.
Genus ASPIDONECTES Wagler.
8.
Aspidonectes spiniferus LeS.
.
Soft Shelled Turtle.
Very abundant in West Tennessee.
Specimens  Samburg 1 halfgrown lOjuv.
Order SAURIA.
Family IGXJAjSTIDJE.
Genus SCELOFORUS Wiegmann.
9.
Sceloporus undulatus Bosc.
Daud..
Brown Swift Tree Lizard.
Represented all over the State below an elevation of 3000 feet.
Specimens  Samburg 3 ad Raleigh 3 ad Sawyer's Springs 4 ad  Harriman 1 ad  Allardt 1 ad Knoxville 1 ad.
Family TEIDJE.
Genus CNEMIDOPHORUS Wagler.
10.
Cnemidophorus sexlineatus L. .
Sixlined Lizard.
This active lizard was numerous in the suburbs of Chattanooga along railroad embankments.
I saw none elsewhere and was unable to capture any.
Family SCINCIDJE.
Genus EUMECES Wiegmann.
11.
Eumeces fasciatus L.
Bluetailed Lizard Scorpion.
I found this species in the western lowlands only.
Proc.Acad.Nal Sci.Phila.1895.
PI ate X.
WHO Slieppard.de Lit BALDWIN ON ACHATINELLA.
Proc Acad Nat .Sci.Phila 1895.
Plate X 4 41  42 51 33 34 35 NtfS  3 2 i r 07 56 oheppard del e.t Lith BALDWIN ON ACHATINELLA.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
I895.
Plate XI i DDDDDDDg KELLER ON PELTANDRA.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phi la.
 1895.
Plate XIII MOORE ON FRIDERICIA.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1895.
Piate XIV.
FOX ON BEMBICINI All the color variations defined by Professor Garman 1 are found in the series collected.
The  Scorpion  is well known and much dreaded by the people of Tennessee.
Specimens  Samburg 4 juv. 1 ad Raleigh 3 juv.
 2 ad.
Genus OLIGOSOMA Girard.
12.
Oligosoma laterale Say.
Ground Swift.
Distribution identical with that of Sceleporus undulatus.
Abundant.
Specimens Raleigh 3 ad Sawyer's Springs 1 juv.
ad.
Order OPHIDIA.
Family COLUBRIDJE.
Genus THAMNOPHIS Fitzinger.
13.
Thamnophis ordinatus L..
Common Garter Snake.
Very few specimens of this genus were met with.
A specimen of typical 
ordinatus was taken on the Cumberland plateau near Clear Fork Creek in the northern corner of Morgan County but it escaped from my pocket.
A small iiividual in bad state of preservation was examined at Samburg and thrown away.
Specimens  Samburg 1 juv.
ad.
14.
Thamnophis ordinatus obscurus Cope.
Plain Garter Snake.
A large garter snake which I found in a mutilated condition on the road from Cloudland to Roan Mountain Station is doubtfully referred to this variety.
It has nineteen rows of scales and seven labials and was originally about 30 inches long and an inch in diameter at the thickest part.
The color of the back is a uniform greenish bronze without spots or lines saving a yellowish vertebral stripe covering the median row and half of each of the two adjoining rows of dorsal scales.
The gastrostegal scales are of a uniform deep greenish azure hue.
The head is dark bronze without markings.
Specimen Base of Roan Mt.
3500 ft. Carter Co. 1 ad.
Genus NATRIX Laurenti.
15.
Natrix sipedon L..
Spotted Water Snake.
The series of smaller water snakes from Reelfoot Lake plainlv demonstrates that the socalled  varieties fasciatus and rhombifer 1 Kept.
 Amphib.
of Ills.
p. 2589.
27 have no correlation with faunal or geographic conditions but are the result of individual variation of age and in some instances of sex and season.
No specimens of variety erythrogaster were taken but the same remarks are undoubtedly applicable to that phase also.
Strictly speaking these names have no place in nomenclature save as pure synonyms of sipedon the first name applied by Linnaeus to this species.
As trinomials they are inapplicable for the same reason and the sooner herpetologists are willing to confine the use of trinomials to geographic races of constant and definable characters the better it will be for that branch of science.
In the case of N. sipedon the use of these varietal names even in the liberal sense of a color phase is objectionable as there are innumerable intermediate variations between the forms so designated which defy classification and which are as fully entitled to varietal rank as those already proposed.
An instance of this is exhibited by one of the Samburg specimens which so closely resembled a blacksnake that I had originally put it in the same jar with a Bascanion from that locality.
This specimen apart from its color is a typical N. sipedon.
In life it was dull black over the whole upper surface below clear white with fine mottling and shading of steel blue across the bases of the gastrosteges.
There are no traces of spots or bands above either on the outer dermal covering or on the portions of the underlying skin which have been exposed by handling.
Prof. Garman mentions that sometimes the upper colors are uniform from which I infer he means without spots but Prof.
Cope 1 makes no mention of such a phase.
The whiteness of the lower parts in the Samburg specimen seems ininconsistent with the idea suggested to me by Mr. A. E. Brown that it is an example of melanism.
It may be stated in this connection that Mr. Brown who has perhaps seen and handled more of these snakes than any one in America had never seen a black one before.
See however Tropidonotus niger of Holbrook.
Of the specimens from middle and east Tennessee all belong to the sipedonfasciatus types some with the dorsal bauds continuous on the sides.
In one from Walden's Ridge some of the dorsal bands are continuous interspersed by large quadrate lateral blotches alternately distributed on either side with their upper corners meeting along the vertebral line.
1 Chars.
 Vars.
Snakes N. A. Proc.
N.
Mus. XIV 1892.
Two specimens from the Nolachucky and Tennessee Rivers are alike in their rusty olive upper shades and orangeyellow bellies finely spotted with sparse black dots.
In one of these the dark dorsal blotches are rhombiform and confluent in the other they are square separated by light transverse bands and alternated along the sides by smaller squares of the same color.
In another specimen from the Nolachucky the general appearance is similar to these but the belly is white nearly spotless anteriorly but darkly blotched and tesselated with black distally.
The dorsal pattern is a curious mixture of those exhibited by the two specimens described in the preceding paragraph.
Young specimens from Bellevue and Roan Mountain show similar inconsistencies with any popular or scientific classification.
Specimens Samburg 6 ad.
 Bellevue 2 juv.
 Sawyer's Springs 2 ad.
 Harriman 1 juv.
 Knoxville 1 ad.
 near Greeneville Nolachucky Riv.
 2 ad.
 Doe River 4000 ft. 1 juv.
16.
Natrix cyclopion Dum.
Bibr..
Cyclops Water Snake.
Four specimens of this huge water snake from Samburg are remarkably uniform in coloration.
The upjier ground is dark olive.
Beginning at the base of the skull irregular squarish blotches of black alternating with patches of the ground color extend almost to the end of the tail and occupy the middle eight rows of dorsal scutes.
On the sides opposite the olive dorsal squares and touching the corner of the black dorsal squares are squares of the same size and color reaching to and invading the abdominal scutes.
The whole effect is a regular checkerboard pattern.
The lower head and neck are yellow unspotted.
Remainder of lower parts becoming paler yellow distally and increasingly blotched with alternating double and treble rows of rounded spots on the bases of the gastrosteges until at the ventral region they assume a checkerwork pattern similar to that of the back.
The three largest specimens have twentyseven dorsal scale rows the smallest twentyfive.
The largest specimen was nearly five feet long and contained two catfish one of which would weigh a pound and a half and whose pectoral spines protruded through the skin of the snake nearly an inch on either side of the abdomen.
This species was abundant on the shores of Reelfoot Lake and its large triangular head thick body and similar color pattern prevent its being distinguished by the natives of that locality from the deadly moccasin with which they almost invariably confound it.
The original spelling of the specific name for this species cyclopion should be adhered to.
Specimens Samburg 3 ad.
 1 juv.
17.
Natrix leberis L..
Sevenstriped Water Snake.
Not seen except in the central basin.
In a large specimen from Bellevue there are no black dorsal stripes.
The back is uniform olive brown with a pale whitish stripe along margins of outer dorsal scutes succeeded by a blackish stripe on edges of abdominal scutes which is distinct from the next yellow stripe anteriorly but is merged ventrally with the inner black stripe of belly.
The median yellow inferior stripe disappears on the abdomen and wholly fades in the black of the ventral and caudal regions.
This results in the diminution of the pectoral pattern of five light and four dark stripes to an abdominal striation of two obscure light lateral lines and an unbroken intervening dark area formed by the confluence of the seven light and dark median stripes of the pectoral region into a single band of black.
Two young taken with this specimen show faint vertebral and costal stripes and in all other respects are normal.
The above description seems to show an approach to grahami but its nineteen dorsal scale rows and color pattern are nearer leberis.
Its peculiarities lend some color to the idea that grahami is not specifically separable from leberis and Prof.
Cope's diagnosis of the two Proc.
Nat.
Mus. XIV p. 667 shows when compared with that of Prof. Garman Rept.
 Amphib.
Ills. p. 272 that their characters are quite variable and this too in the direction of each other.
Specimens  Bellevue 1 ad. 2 juv.
 Richland Creek near Nashville 1 juv.
Genus OPHEODRYS Fitzinger.
18.
Opheodrys aestivus L..
Green Summer Snake.
Reported from all over the State but only seen by me on the Cumberland plateau in Scott and Fentress counties.
It is probable most of the Green Snakes of east Tennessee are Liopeltis vernalis De KayHarl.
 none of which were taken.
Specimens  3 m. W. Rugby Road Scott County 1 juv.
 8 m. E. Allardt 1 ad.
Genus BASC ANION Baird Girard.
19.
Bascanion constrictor L..
Black Snake.
Fairly abundant in sparsely settled districts.
Specimens  Sam burg 1 ad.
 Bellevue 1 ad.
Genus COLUBER Linnaeus.
20.
Coluber obsoletus Say.
Pilot Snake.
I found this the most abundant snake throughout the State.
The large specimen from Fentress County has only twentythree rows of dorsal scales all the others have twentyfive bringing the average far below the normal number for this species which is never less than twentyfive and often reaches twentynine rows.
In the twent fiverowed specimen the prevailing color is black with slight marbling of gray above.
The supralabials and anterior lower scutes are white becoming heavily blotched with alternating quadrate spots of black on the belly.
The lower caudal region is quite black.
The dorsal color pattern is rhomboidal and there is a tendency to striation in the gray lateral markings of the fore part of the body.
The specimen was nearly five feet long.
It is plainly referable to the form described by Holbrook as Coluber alleghaniensis.
A young specimen from the same locality has the same color pattern but is much lighter.
Three specimens from Samburg exhibit very instructive characters.
The smallest a half grown specimen has a gray black ground with a black dorsal row of separated rhomboid blotches and a similar row of blotches on each side which are alternate to the dorsal ones but do not touch them.
The belly is white with alternating tesserae of black spots on either side in short longitudinal rows from three to five scutes in length and oneeighth to onesixteenth of an inch in width.
Another large specimen is similar but darker the dorsal blotches less defined and the lateral ones merged into a dark longitudinal band with a superior narrower band of gray traversing almost the entire length.
The under side is white mottled with dusky anteriorly but with a continuous median light stripe to tip of tail.
It is intermediate between allegheniensis and quadrivittatus.
A large Chattanooga specimen is intermediate between the Allardt and Samburg examples.
No specimens of the very dark form of typical obsoletus were seen though I examined several other Samburg specimens which were not preserved.
A study of Professor Boulenger's diagnosis of this species 1 corroborates my own observations and belief that individuals which may be severally classed under the varietal synonyms allegheniensis lindheimeri and spiloides may be found associated in both Carolinian and Austroriparian districts.
As in the case of Natrix sipedon these facts defy any attempt to define geographical races of obsoletus or to apply names to them in the trinomial sense.
Ophidians are not subservient to the same fixed laws of geographic variation which apply to birds and mammals and which have enabled us to define with scientific exactness the faunal areas over which they are distributed to designate these races by trinomials and even to predict the character of subspecific variations in a given area upon our knowledge of the physiographic and climatic conditions there obtaining.
Though recent attempts to classify the North American Reptilia and Batrachia by the code of trinomial nomenclature adopted by the American Ornithologists' Union has in many cases been a failure it is not improbable that when reptiles are collected in large series and at different seasons from continuous areas of country we may be able in most cases to define geographic races on structural characters quite as constant as the superficial ones afforded us by subspecies of birds and mammals.
Specimens  Samburg 2 ad. 1 juv.
 Chattanooga 1 ad.
 Allardt 1 juv.
 1 ad.
Genus OPHIBOLUS Baird Girard.
21.
Ophibolus triangulus Daud..
King Snake Milk Snake.
The only specimen taken has twentyone dorsal scales and in nearly all minutiae corresponds to Boulenger's description of triangulus.
It seems desirable and proper that these characters should be considered sufficient to specifically separate this snake from the doliatus of Linnaeus.
In doing this Prof. Garman has made the curious blunder of using the name doliatus of Baird and Girard for a variety of triangulus.
Specimen Bellevue 1 ad.
22.
Ophibolus getulus sayi Holbr.
.
Chain Snake.
The only specimen is the dark phase of sayi with minute dots on a black ground and a heavily blotched yellowish belly.
The distinctions between typical getulus of the east Carolinian district 1 Cat.
Snakes B.
Mus. II 1894 pp.
50 51. and sayi of the west are so constant as to deserve trinomial recognition.
Specimen Samburg 1 ad.
Genus HETERODON Beauvais Latreille.
23.
Heterodon platyrhinus Latr.
Hognosed Snake.
Of the three Samburg specimens one adult is noteworthy in having the body and tail a uniform grayish olive above and ashy white below without markings.
The head and neck have the normal black markings.
Specimens Samburg 2 ad.
 1 juv.
Genus CARPHOPHIS Gervais.
D'Orbigny.
24.
Carphophis amoenus Say.
Ground Snake.
In the Raleigh specimen there are no internasal scutes.
In one from Sawyer's Springs the right internasal is partly developed and in the other both internasals are present.
Specimens Raleigh 1 ad.
 Sawyer's Springs 2 ad.
Family CROTALIDffi.
Genus CROTALUS Linnaeus.
25.
Crotalus horridus L. Timber Rattlesnake.
I did not actually meet with this snake but secured the rattle of a specimen killed near Samburg during my stay.
They are numerous in West Tennesseee.
Genus AGKISTRODON Beauvais.
26.
Agkistrodon contortrix L. .
Copperhead.
This snake is abundant in the western half of the State.
Two specimens were caught in the runways of mice in the small Cyclone traps which were used for trapping mammals.
This would indicate that small rodents are a favorite food of the Copperhead and are systematically pursued in their burrows.
Specimens Samburg 2 ad.
 Raleigh 1 ad.
 Sawyer's Springs 1 juv.
27.
Agkistrodon piscivorus Lacep..
Water Moccasin.
Though the Moccasin is accounted abundant by the people of Reelfoot Lake I did not secure or positively recognize more than one specimen.
Specimen  1 halfgrown.
AMPHIBIA.
Order ANURA.
Family BANID.
Genus RANA Linnseus.
28.
Rana pipiens Sclireber.
Leopard Frog.
The small series at my disposal prevents any discussion of the supposed characters of the subspecies recognized by Prof.
Cope in his Batrachia of North America.
The inconstancy of some of these characters however is patent enough and the multiplication of new trinomials quite unwarranted.
Specimens Saraburg 1 ad.
 Raleigh 2 ad.
 Chattanooga 1 juv.
29.
Bana palustris LeC.
Pickerel Frog.
Only found in east Tennessee.
Specimens Harriman 1 ad.
 1 juv.
 Roan Mt. 3500 ft. 1 ad.
 1 juv.
30.
Rana olami tans Bosc Mss. Sonn. Latr.
Southern Spring Frog.
The most abundant of the genus throughout the State.
Specimens near Bellevue 3 juv.
ad.
 Chattanooga 1 ad.
 Harriman 1 ad.
31.
Rana clamitans melanota Eaf.
.
Northern Spring Frog.
Two large frogs from a spring on the summit of Roan Mountain and within a few yards of the Tennessee State line in Mitchell County North Carolina showed such striking differences from clamitans of western Tennessee that I was inclined to consider them a distinct species.
Similar specimens were seen on the banks of Doe River during the ascent of the mountain but none were secured.
The Roan Mountain specimens are almost precisely in color and measurements like Holbrook's figure of Rana horiconensis from Lake George and without doubt represent the same phase of variation from the typical southern clamitans 1 which we find in that species in the northern States and Canada.
Dr. Holbrook compares his horiconensis with fontinalis clamitans remarking on its size and color and then says it cannot be the Rana melanota  as it wants the 'yellow streak on the sides of the head.'
1 The type locality is Charleston South Carolina.
Rafinesque's description Annals of Nature 1820 p. 5 is as follows   25.
Ranaria Rana L melanota.
Back olivaceous black a yellow streak on the sides of the head chin throat and inside of the legs whitish with black spots belly white without spots.
A pretty frog living in Lake Champlain and Lake George vulgar name Black Frog  total length two and a half inches.
Eyes large iris gilt violet.
The anterior feet have four free toes and the hind feet five palmated ones.
There is little doubt that Rafinesque had in hand the same large dark variety of clamitans which Holbrook had  the yellow streak on the side of the head which is faintly developed in the figure of horiconensis and which is seen in the Roan Mountain frogs as an irregular whitish yellow stripe from the nostril under the eye to the angle of the mouth is not a valid objection to this view.
The fact that Holbrook' s type also came from Lake George and that the name of Black Frog is applicable to it is further proof of their identity.
The same frog from Lake Superior was named Rana nigricans by Agassiz in 1850.
Professor Cope does not think the variation of the northern form of clamitans constant and he cites a a dark Louisiana example.
I am inclined to believe however that we have in eastern North America a light colored smoothskinned mediumsized Springfrog in the Carolinian fauna and a large dark shagreened Springfrog peculiar to the Canadian fauna.
The name and description of fontinalis of Le Conte is not more applicable to the northern form than the southern and he gives no habitat.
The name clamitans was first given to this species in Sonniui and Latreille's Natural History of Reptiles in 1802.
Daudin who generally gets the credit of this name spelt it clamata in his Natural History of Reptiles in 1803 and gives himself the credit of naming it in Latreille's work above cited.
Bosc would appear to have sent this name when he sent the types and description to Latreille and Daudin from South Carolina and so far as I can discover he has a right to some credit for the name.
To accord this to him and at the same time indicate the publishing author I have adopted the formula Bosc Mss. Sonu. Latr.
The spelling clamitans will have to be adopted as it has priority.
It is not only bad form but unscientific and misleading to indicate the authorship of published manuscript names by only giving the name of the manuscript author and it is to be hoped that a proper formula for such names will be proposed by the A. O. U.
32.
Rana catesbiana Shaw.
Bull Frog.
Abundant in all lowlands throughout the State.
A very large Samburg example is remarkably dark beneath the entire lower parts being coarsely ocellated and vermiculated with black on a white ground  the head quite black above the body sooty black.
A smaller specimen from the same locality is light olive above and nearly immaculate below.
Specimens  Samburg 2 ad.
 Nolachucky River Greene County 1 juv.
Family ENGYSTOMIDJE.
Genus ENGYSTOMA Fitzinger.
33.
Engystoma carolinense Holbr.
Nebulous Toad.
The specimens taken were found under logs in woodland near running water.
Specimens Raleigh 1 ad.
 near Chattanooga 1 ad.
Family BUFONIDJE.
Genus BUFO Laurenti.
34.
Bufo lentiginosus Shaw.
Southern Toad.
Specimens from southern Tennessee approach nearly to those found in the Gulf States but the majority are intermediates.
Specimens Bellevue 1 ad.
 Sawyer's Springs 2 ad.
35.
Bufo lentiginosus americanus Le C Mss.
Holbr..
Northern Toad.
Two typical examples were taken on Roan Mountain.
They partake of the characters found in so many of the animals of this humid Canadian  environment viz. the large size and saturated coloration.
One was found on the summit.
Specimens Roan Mountain 6300 ft. 1 ad.
 5000 ft. 1 ad.
Family HYLIDJE.
Genus ACRIS Dumeril Bibron.
36.
Acris gryllus Le C. .
Cricket Frog.
Examination of nearly forty specimens from widely separated localities in Tennessee and Kentucky fails to reveal any constant distinctions between gryllus and crepitant if both forms are found in the State.
Prof. H. Garman considers the size of gryllus 1.4 in.
as given by Le Conte as the only reliable difference.
This is much larger than any in my series and as the Samburg specimens are smaller and more slender than those from the Cumberland plateau the theory that the southwestern frogs are larger than northeastern ones is contradicted.
Le Conte defines the habitat of gryllus in the south Atlantic States and that of crepitans in the remainder of the eastern United States but Prof.
Cope's identification of the Smithsonian series allots specimens of both forms to both sides of the Allegheny Mountains in such a way that faunal definitions lose their significance.
Such being the case I have lumped the entire Tennessee series under the original specific name.
Specimens Samburg 10 ad.
 Chattanooga 2 ad.
 Sawyer's Springs 12 ad.
 Greeneville 4 ad. 4 juv.
Genus CHOROPHILUS Baird.
37.
Chorophilus triseriatus Wiedni..
Chorus Frog.
A male and female were taken together in a pool on the'Chickamauga battle field eight miles from Chattanooga.
I heard the voice of this species in other parts of the State but do not remember it west of the central basin.
The specimens have been mislaid.
Genus HYLA Laurenti.
38.
Hyla cinerea semifasciata Hallow..
Hallowell's Tree Frog.
The name of the typical eastern form of this species has a rather peculiar history.
Later authors have adopted the name carolinensis of Gunther Cat.
Bat.
Sal. B. M. 1858 p. 105.
Giinther in his synonymy quotes a Calamita carolinensis Penn. Zool.
Arct.
II p. 331 and contrary to good rules our most noted writers in this branch of science have used the name binomially as  Hyla carolinensis Pennant.
Reference to the Arctic Zoology shows us that Pennant not only never imposed original binomials or polynomials on previously unnamed species but that the Calamita carolinensis of Gunther is mythical.
The entire reference to it by Pennant is as follows Fr.
og with the back gibbous ciuereous and smooth belly yellow and granulated on each side from the nose to the rump is a line the same on the outside of the thighs and legs toes bullated at their ends.
Inhabits Carolina.
On the margin of the same page he gives the number 13 and the English specific name Cinereous belonging to the description.
He gives no synonymy nor reference to Catesby as in the description of frogs immediately preceding this one and there is little doubt that he based this Cinereous Frog on a specimen in his possession preserved in spirits and sent him from Carolina.
On a preceding page he considers the same frog as figured by Catesby viz.
 the Green Tree Frog Catesby II 71 to be identical with the  Rana arborea of Linnaeus.
How Giinther could have imposed such a forgery as  Calamita carolinensis Pennant on himself seems inexplicable and that this nomen spurium should have been perpetuated to the present day as a valid name is scarcely less astonishing.
Professors S. and H. Garman seem to have had doubts about the name carolinensk and the former in his work on the Herpetology of Illinois rightly adopts the name einerea of Schneider Calamita cinerea Schn. Hist.
Amph.
1799 p. 174 for this species.
On examining Schneider's description the mystery is largely explained.
Under the division XI Oinereus' n of his genus Calamitce  it begins with the following sentence  In Pennanti Zoologia Arctica II p. 331 edit.
sec.
Calamita Carolinensis describitur subeodem nomine veluti species nova.
The remainder of Schneider's description is a latinized version of the one given by Pennant above quoted.
Giinther mistook Schneider to mean that Pennant had given the Cinereous Frog a binomial and without verifying the reference ' ' Calamita Carolinensis  gave it precedence over Schneider's name cinerea 
Prof. Garman in trying to correct Giinther' s error has committed a precisely similar one by construing Schneider to mean by the phrase describitur subeodem nomine  that Pennant had used the name Cinereous in a binomial sense so he makes it Synop.
Rept.
Amph. Ills. p. 346  Hyla cinerea Pennant.
I found this species abundant on the margins of Reelfoot Lake.
The specimens taken strongly emphasize the validity of the western semifasciata form described by Hallowell as compared with Carolina and Florida examples of cinerea.
Among the more constant distinguishing characters shown by my series is the large size robust form obtuse snout relatively short hind leg heel not reaching end of nose short wide blackbordered costal stripe no femoral stripe back yellowspotted.
Should a larger series from the Mississippi Valley and the Gulf States show no intergradation semifasciata is a good species and in any event has evident subspecific claims .to a place in nomenclature.
Specimens Samburg 3 ad. 1 juv.
39.
Hyla pickeringi Storer.
Pickering's Tree Frog.
Storer's description and name Rept.
of Mass. 1839 p. 240 of this species are the first published ones.
He was indebted to the manuscript Journal of the Essex County Natural History Society for the description.
This journal was afterward published in 1852 and the manuscript referred to is given in the table of contents as Remarks on Hyla Femoralis Pickeringii observed in the North Parish of Dan vers.
By Andrew Nichols.
... p.
593.
Storer was a good friend of Holbrook.
He does not seem to have published his  Hy lodes pickeringi  as new as he omits the nobis used after such species.
He also omits giving any author's name but gives the synonymatic reference N. A. Herpet.
 Vol.
III.
This refers to the first edition of Holbrook's work which probably had not been issued from the press when Storer wrote his description.
This accounts for Storer not giving the page reference.
Holbrook's Herpetology came out in 1838 one year before the date of Storer's work but it contains no reference to H. pickeringi.
In the second edition published in 1842 the description and plate appear but there is no reference to Storer.
The whole thing is difficult to interpret but so far as our evidence goes Storer has the best of it and sole claim to the name.
It is probable however that Holbrook had suggested to Storer that the animal would be named after Dr. Pickering in his forthcoming third volume of the N. A. Herpetology and Storer innocently so used the name in his manuscript and inadvertently allowed it to get into print in that form before Holbrook had published it.
Holbrook's disregard of Storer's previous use qf.
the name is inexplicable.
Only heard in the mountains of the eastern region.
Specimen Roan Mt.
6300 ft. Mitchell Co. N.
Car. 200yds.
east of Tennessee line 1 ad.
 .
Order URODELA.
Family PLEURODELIDJE.
Genus DIEMYCTYLUS Eaflnesque.
40.
Diemyctylus viridescens meridionalis Cope.
Spotted Triton.
About forty of these Newts were brought alive to me by a boy who had takeu them in a stream flowing into Reelfoot Lake.
They were the only specimens observed by me in Tennessee.
The series is remarkably uniform in size averaging about three inches in length.
The coloration is likewise remarkably constant dark olive above with round dots of black evenly distributed becoming clouded on the tail.
Lower parts clear light yellow dotted with black.
Tail strongly keeled above and below.
The entire series lacks any indication of the lateral red blackringed ocelli so uniformly present in viridescens.
The name miniatus given by Rafmesque to this species in the same issue of the Annals of Nature containing his description of viridescens must give place to the latter name which was the first in the order of sequence.
The occurrence of the meridionalis type of this species in the Mississippi bottoms of Tennessee is of much interest and seems quite parallel to that of Hyla cinerea semifasciata above mentioned both cases showing the close faunal relationship of this region with eastern and southeastern Texas.
Specimens Samburg 14.
Family DESMOGNATHIDJE.
Genus DESMOGNATHUS Baird.
41.
Desmognathus nigra Green.
Black Salamander.
Found only in the eastern part of the State.
Specimens Sawyer's Springs 8 juv.
 Roan Mountain 3500 to 5000 feet 2 ad. '
42.
Desmognathus fusca Raf.
.
Dusky Salamander.
Specimens Roan Mountain 500 feet 1 ad.
 ditto 6300 feet 1 ad.
43.
Desmognathus ochrophaea Cope.
Gray Salamander.
I doubtfully refer two specimens to this species.
Specimens Harriman 2 ad.
Family PLETHODONTIDJE.
Genus SPELERPES Rafinesque.
44.
Spelerpes ruber Sonn.
Latr..
Red Salamander.
The large specimens from Sawyer's Springs were found under logs in dry woodland.
The color in life was light brownish red darkly and thickly spotted with black.
The larval Roan Mountain specimen was taken in a quiet pool of water.
A well defined slender black vertebral line reaches from the shoulders to end of tail.
In other respects it is like Prof.
Cope's diagnosis of S. r. montanus to which variety subspecies
it undoubtedly should be referred.
A specimen was seen in a spring on the summit of Roan Mountain.
Specimens Sawyer's Springs 3 ad.
 Roan Mountain 4000 feet 1 juv.
45.
Spelerpes bislineatus Green.
Twostriped Salamander.
Very abundant under logs just below the fir belt on Roan Mountain.
Specimens Roan Mountain 4500 to 5000 feet 7 ad.
Genus GYRINOPHILUS Cope.
46.
Gyrinophilus porphyriticus Green.
Porphyritic Salamander.
The only specimen coming to notice was taken under the upper bark of a huge hemlock log in the deciduous belt of Roan Mountain at about 4000 feet elevation.
Its length is not quite five inches.
A threadlike black vertebral line extends from shoulders to root of tail.
The dorsal spotting is minute the lower parts immaculate save the border of the lower jaw.
A dark line from nostril to eye.
Color above in life pale salmon.
This species is not essentially an aquatic animal as the above capture proves the nearest stream of water being fifty yards from the tree on which I found the specimen.
Specimen Roan Mountain near Rock Creek 1 ad.
Genus PLETHODON Tschudi.
47.
Plethodon glutinosus Green.
Viscid Salamander.
This is the most abundant and uniformly distributed salamander in Tennessee.
None were found on Roan Mountain.
Specimens Samburg 1 ad. 1 juv.
 Raleigh 7 ad.
 Sawyer's Springs 5 ad. 5 juv.
 Knoxville 1 juv.
48.
Plethodon aeneus Cope.
Webfooted Salamander.
This species was found associating with glutinosus on the Cumberland table land near Chattanooga which is in the type region.
The specimens were taken under the bark of rotten tree stumps about three feet from the ground.
Prof.
Cope states the terminal phalanges are truncate and slightly expanded at the tips as in the P. glutinosus In my specimens this truncation and expansion is greatly exaggerated especially on the hind feet the tips of the toes being nearly twice the diameter of the phalanges  the latter are distinctly webbed and the soles and palms wider than long.
The inner toes of both hind and fore feet do not stand out from the plantar circumference save as a rightangled border being practically nonfunctional as compared with the same members in glutinosus.
In other characters including measurements my adult specimen is a duplicate of the type.
The young individual is twentyfive millimeters long but in all respects except size corresponds to the adult.
Specimens Sawyer's Springs 1 ad. 1 juv.
49.
Plethodon erythronotus Green.
Redbacked Salamander.
So far as I can identify the specimens on hand this species is found in both middle and west Tennessee.
The series appears to confirm the belief based on collections from Pennsylvania that the form einereus is not a geographic but an individual variation which may often be found in direct association with erythronotus in a single colony.
Erythronotus on account of its precedence over einereus in Dr. Green's original descriptions should stand for the species einereus becoming a synonym.
Specimens Bellevue 1 juv.
 Roan Mountain 3000 to 5000 feet 14 ad.
and juv.
Family AMBLYSTOMIDjE.
Genus AMBLYSTOMA Tschudi.
50.
Amblystoma jeffersonianum Green.
Plumbeous Salamander.
These sluggish salamanders are very numerous under logs below the fir belt on Roan Mountain and a few even wander to a greater elevation.
They seem to replace P. glutinosus in this locality.
The series is very constant in coloration bluish black above dusky below with a brownish yellow chin and throat.
There is no spotting but a close examination shows a light blue pitting along the sides and tail and over the chest and abdomen.
Specimens Roan Mountain 4000 to 5200 ft. 13 ad.
51.
Amblystoma opaoum Gravenhorst.
Ladderback Salamander.
Specimen Raleigh 1 ad.
Family CRYPTOBRANCHID.
Genus CRYPTOBRANCHTTS Leuckart.
52.
Cryptobranohus allegheniensis Latr..
Hellbender.
A specimen was taken from the interior of a water snake Natrix sipedon.
The anterior half of the body is much macerated but the remainder is in good condition.
The animal is about twothirds grown the ground color a greenish olive spotted in strong contrast with irregular transverse bands and blotches of black.
The abdomen is sparingly spotted with the same shade.
In all other specimens I have examined the general shade was leaden and the marbling obscure or absent altogether.
Specimen Tennessee River near Knoxville 1 juv.
ad.
List of Reptiles and Amphibians Recorded from Tennessee not Mentioned in the Preceding Annotated List.
Order CROCODILIA.
1.
Alligator mississippiensis Daud..
Alligator.
I was assured by Mr. J.
A. Craig of Sam burg that he had seen Alligators in the Mississippi near Memphis.
Order CHELONIA.
2.
Pseudemys troosti Holbr..
Troost's Terrapin.
The type was sent to Dr. Holbrook from the Cumberland river probably near Nashville.
Troost mentions this species in his list of Tennessee reptiles.
1 3.
Pseudemys hieroglyphica Holbr..
Hieroglyphic Terrapin.
The above remarks also apply to this species.
The type of hieroglyphica is in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
4.
Malaclemys geographica Le Sueur.
Map Terrapin Holbrook and Troost record it the former from the Cumberland river.
1 7th Geol.
Rep.
Ten . 1844 p. 39.
28 5.
Macroclemys lacertina Schweig.
.
Alligator Snapper.
Numerous in Reelfoot Lake.
This is the  Chelonura Temminekii of Troost's list.
It is probably found throughout west Tennessee in the larger streams.
6.
Amyda mutica Xe S. .
Leather Back Turtle.
This is Troost's  Trionyx milieus' ' in the list of Tennessee reptiles.
7.
Aspidonectes nuchalis Agass.
Tennessee Softshelled Turtle.
The types of this species came from the Cumberland river near Nashville and young of the same are recorded by Agassiz from the headwaters of the Tennessee River.
I observed an Aspidonectes perhaps this species in the Tennessee River at the junction of the Holston and French Broad.
The validity of this species is not well established.
The Trionyx ferox of Troost's list refers chiefly to A. spinifervs which was then confounded with ferox.
Order SAURIA.
8.
Ophisaurus ventralis L..
Joint Snake.
Recorded by Troost and likely to be found in Tennessee anywhere west of the higher mountains.
9.
Phrynosoma cornutum Hark.
Horned Toad.
This is given on the authority of Troost' s list.
I am not aware of any record east of the Mississippi River.
Troost's record may have been based on a specimen escaped from captivity as it is impossible he could have mistaken some other Tennessee reptile for this characteristic species.
10.
Anolis carolinensis Dum.
Bibr.
.
Carolina Chameleon.
I was frequently told of the presence of this species in western middle and southeastern Tennessee.
Troost records it.
After considerable search through the literature I am best satisfied to discard Linnaeus's name principalis which Dumeril and Bibron have gone to considerable pains to prove was probably applied to this animal.
Cuvier did not apply a binomial to it as is implied by Dumeril and Bibron.
Order OPHIDIA.
11.
Storeria dekayi Holbr..
De Kay's Snake.
Recorded from Tyree Springs in Dr. Yarrow's list of Reptilia and Batrachia in the U. S. National Museum.
12.
Diadophis punctatus L. .
Ring Snake.
Yarrow 1. c. records it from Tyree Springs and Troost includes it in his list.
13.
Virginia valeric Bd.
Gir.
Valeria's Snake.
Yarrow's list names a specimen from Tyree Springs.
14. 
Agkistrodon atrofuscus Troost.
Highland Moccasin.
So far the specific peculiarities of this snake depend solely on the statements of its describer.
I saw or heard nothing of such a snake that did not apply to A. contortrix.
It is not impossible that the animal may be rediscovered but the probabilities are strongly against it.
The type came from Maury County Tenn. 15.
Crotalophorus catenatus Raf..
Massasauga Rattlesnake.
Troost includes the  Crotalus miliarius Lin. in his list of Tennessee Reptiles undoubtedly referring to this species which represents miliarius in the Mississippi Valley.
Order ANURA.
16.
Scaphiopus holbrooki Harlan.
Spadefoot Toad.
This is the 8. solitarius of Troost's list.
17.
Hyla versicolor Le C. Common Tree Frog.
Specimens from Roane Claiborne and Shelby counties are recorded in Yarrow's list.
Troost also gives it.
Order URODELA.
18.
Diemyctylus viridescens Raf. 
Spotted Triton.
This is the  Triton dorsalis Harl.
of Troost's list Typical viridescens undoubtedly replaces the race meridionalis in middle and east Tennessee and is the form referred to by Troost whose researches were chiefly devoted to the region around Nashville.
19.
Spelerpes longicaudus Green.
Longtailed Salamander.
The Salamandra longe caudata of Troost's catalogue refers to this species.
See also Batr.
N. Amer.
1889 p. 170.
20.
Spelerpes guttolineatus Holbr.
.
Holbrook's Triton.
Another species admitted on Troost's authority.
21.
Amblystoma punctatum L. .
Spotted Salamander.
The  Salamandra venenosa of Troost's list is this species.
A specimen from Knoxville is in the National Museum.
22.
Cryptobranchus fuscus Holbr..
Brown Hellbender.
The type of this species was taken by Prof. Mitchell in the Tennessee River near Knoxville.
Yarrow records a specimen from Nolackijcky River.
23.
Amphiuma means Garden.
Congo Snake.
Listed by Troost.
The most northerly record I can find.
24.
Necturus maculatus Raf.
.
Mud Puppy.
Specimens from Tyree Springs are listed.
Troost also gives it a place in his list under the name Menobranchus lateralis Say.
Order TRACHYSTOMATA.
25.
Siren lacertina L. Siren.
This species is given in Troost's list List of Reptiles and Amphibians likely to occur in the State but not yet recorded therefrom.
Order CHELONIA.
1.
Onychotria triunguis Agass..
Threetoed Tortoise.
2.
Chrysemys picta Herrmann.
Painted Turtle.
3.
Chrysemys marginata Agass..
Western Painted Turtle.
4.
Malaclemys lesueuri Gray.
Le Sueur's Terrapin.
5.
Aromociielys carinatus Gray.
.
Carinated Musk Turtle.
6.
Aspidonectes ferox Wagler..
Southern Softshelled Turtle.
Order OPHIDIA.
7.
Thamnophis saurita L..
Riband Snake.
8.
Thamnophis ordinatus L..
Variations going under the names sirtalis parietalis obscura and graminea.
9.
Thamnophis radix Bd.
Gir.
.
Transition Garter Snake.
10.
Natrix sipedon L. .
Variations erythrogaster ancP rhombifer.
11.
Natrix taxispilota Holbr..
Great Water Snake.
12.
Natrix grahami Bd. Gir..
Graham's Leather Snake.
13.
Tropidoclonion lineatum Hallow..
Lined Snake.
14.
Storeria occipitomaculata Storer.
Storer's Snake.
15.
Abastor erythrogrammus Daud..
Redlined Snake Hoop Snake.
16.
Farancia abacura Holbr..
Redbellied Horn Snake.
1 17.
Liopeltis 2 vernalis De Kay.
Green Snake.
Spring Snake.
18.
Pituophis catenifer sayi Schl..
Bull Snake.
19.
Coluber guttatus L. Corn Snake.
20.
Heterodon simus L..
Hognose Snake.
21.
Haldea striatula L..
Little Striped Snake.
22.
Virginia elegans Kenn.
.
Kennicott's Brown Snake.
Order ANURA.
23.
Ran a sylvatica Le C. Wood Frog.
24.
Hyla squirella Bosc.
mss. Sonn.
 Latr.
Squirrel Frog.
Order URODELA.
25.
Hemidactylium scutatum Schl..
Fourtoed Salamander.
26.
Chondrotus microstomus Cope.
Smallheaded Salamander.
27.
Amblystoma tigrinum Green.
Tiger Salamander.
28.
Amblystoma conspersum Cope.
Sprinkled Salamander.
29.
Amblystoma talpoideum Holbr..
Mole Salamander.
Order TRACHYSTOMATA.
30.
Pseudobranchus striatus Le C. .
Striated Siren.
1 Mr. B. C. Miles of Brownsville Tennessee writes me that he has taken this snake in the bottoms.
2 1 here adopt Fitzinger's genus in good faith.
He made Herpetodryas tricolor of Schlegel the type of this genus.
Should it prove that Prof.
Cope's assertion Proc.
A. N.
Sci. Phila.. 1860 p. 560 that this species is generically similar to our vernalis is incorrect there seems to be no other generic name strictly applicable to it.
Prof.
Cope's appropriation of Fitzinger's genus Liopeltis as his own Proc.
N.
Mus. Vol.
XIV p. 620 is not only inconsistent with his wellknown views on the  catalogue names  of that author but is in plain violation of the  Code.''
408 1895.
PRELIMINARY NOTE ON A NEW ALKALI MINERAL.
BY WARREN M. FOOTE.
While searching recently at Borax Lake California for the rare species Sulphohalite Mr. C. H. Northup discovered what he considered to be a new form of that mineral.
The crystals were found during a laborious working of the tailings which came from an exploratory boring known as the New Well made by the Borax Lake Mining Company and were formed in a clay which was reached at a depth of about 450 feet.
They were at once forwarded to Dr. A. E. Foote to whom the writer is indebted for the material used in this examination.
Crystallization etc.
 The mineral crystallizes in bright and perfect octahedrons of a diameter rarely exceeding one centimeter.
Fractured crystals show in the interior a cross formed of faint lines running perpendicular to the octahedral faces.
Dark planes which were sharply defined in the interior of every specimen examined lie parallel to cubic symmetry thus passing through the angles of the octahedron and dividing it into eight parts each part containing a distinct group of striae.
The same thing is noticeable in the clearest of the complete crystals a bundle of lines coming from the central nucleus to the centre of each face.
The accompanying sketch will give an idea of the interior structure as appearing in a broken crystal.
This remarkable phenomenon is strikingly similar to that observed in Boleite cubes figured by Bombicci in a memoir on Mimetical Pyrite Bologna 1893.
Again triangular markings on the surface and a frequent parallel grouping of the octahedrons suggest a form of interpenetration twinning where the twinning axis is cubic as in diamond.
Color varying from milky pale yellow and greenish gray to brown.
Cleavage imperfect.
Fracture brittle and uneven.
Lustre vitreous.
Hardness 3.5 to 4.
Chemical Examination.
 Easily fusible.
In a closed tube decrepitates violently and gives off water finally fusing to a gray mass.
Fragments and powdered mineral are almost unchanged by long standing in water and the powder soluble with difficulty on boiling.
Readily soluble with effervescence in cold dilute hydrochloric acid.
Qualitative tests made on clear crystals showed the presence of carbon dioxide chlorine and sodium with slight traces of calcium and potassium making it essentially a chlorocarbonate of sodium a composition quite as remarkable as that of other species peculiar to this locality.
Though found sparingly it is hoped that material can be obtained for a further and more complete investigation than the writer is at present able to give.
The name Northupite is proposed for this new species since it was entirely due to Mr. Northup's indefatigable zeal in collecting that the mineral was brought to light.
