NEW SUBSPECIES OF THE GRAY FOX AND SAY'S CHIPMUNK.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
Urooyon ciaereoargenteus floridanus subsp.
nov.
Type yg.
ad.
  No.
1.837 Col. of S. N. Rhoads.
Tarpon Springs Florida.
Col. by W. S. Dickinson Dec. 1894.
Description.
 Smaller than cinereoargenteus of the Middle States with relatively shorter hind foot tail and ears and harsher pelage.
Skull characters not appreciably different from the typical form.
Crown from between eyes including space between ears and eyes to black malar stripe upper neck back rump sides upper surfaces of legs and feet mixed silvergray much as in the northern animal.
Chin margin of lips whisker patch upper line and tip of tail and an indistinct double stripe reaching from the nose through and under eyes and joining on cheeks black.
Hind ears sides of neck to forelegs broad band across throat and under surface of foreleg rusty brown.
Throat and cheekstripe from anterior canthus of eye white.
Anterior upper lip adjoining muzzle brownishwhite.
Breast belly vent inner surfaces of hams and inner base of forelegs pale rusty fulvous a few grayishwhite hairs near vent.
Soles of feet cinnamon with dusky borders.
Measurements of type taken from dry skin.
 Total length 900 mm.
 hind foot 125  tail vertebra 260 ear from crown 60  Of old adult topotype length 910 foot 125 tail 310 ear 63.
SkullTotal length 114 basilar length 103 zygomatic expansion 65 interorbital expansion 35  length of nasals 41  length of mandible 86  width of mandible 33.
Two specimens male and female from the vicinity of Tarpon Springs one in winter and the other in summer pelage show such wellmarked differences from the Gray Fox of Virginia and the Middle States I feel no hesitation in considering them sufficient indication that the fox of southern Florida should be separated from the northern animal.
Besides the difference in dimensions already stated in the description the Florida fox may be recognized by the paleness of the fulvous color of breast and belly and by the almost entire absence of white on these parts so conspicuous in specimens from Virginia and New Jersey.
It lacks entirely the white stripe on the inside of hind legs and the rusty throat patch is much longer 3 or 4 inches than in cinereoargenteus in which it often forms a narrow collar scarcely dividing the white of lower head and throat from that of hreast.
As I have already pointed out 1 priority in naming the Gray Fox belongs to Midler who described it in 1776.
Probably in the same year a plate of this animal had been published by Schreber Saugthiere Tab.
XCII  on which he used the name  Canis cinereoargenteus Briss.
The text belonging to the volume Band III in which this plate was bound bears the date 1778.
In the text Schreber nowhere imposes the Latin name because of his expressed doubt whether Der Grisfuchs might not be the same as Der Virginische Fuchs which he named Canis virginianus.
It is therefore apparent that cinereoargenteus was not adopted by Schreber but was merely quoted on the plate to denote the animal which he considered the same as the Canis cinereoargenteus of Brisson.
Schreber's plate of Der Virginische Fuchs is copied from the preposterous one of Catesby while that of Der Grisfuchs is not a bad representation of the Gray Fox and his description of the animal pp.
360 361 is the first accurate one published in fact it would be hard to find a more reliable diagnosis of the external characters of the northern form than this of Schreber's taken from a furrier's pelt sent from America to Germany.
Returning to Midler's description we find the additional statement that his Canis cinereoargenteus is based on Brisson' s animal as well as on Schreber's plate above mentioned but he gives no habitat.
Brisson Regne Animal 1756 p. 241 gives it Habitat in Carolina  Virginia in cavis arboribus. 
The Gray Foxes which I have examined from North Carolina and Virginia are essentially like those of the Middle States and it is therefore proper to apply Midler's name to the northern as contrasted with the extreme southern form.
It is probable that there is little intergradation between the two north of southern Georgia and that typical floridanus is confined to peninsular Florida as is the case with otber mammals in these regions having the same distribution.
Tamias lateralis saturatus subsp.
now Type ad.
  Col. of S. X. Kboads No.
1365.
Lake Kicbelos Kittitas Co. Washn.
elevation 8000 ft..
Col. by Allan Kupert Sep. 1893.
Description.
 Size large tail very long foot and ear in the same 1 Reprint of Ord's Zoology 1894 Appx. p. 8. proportion colors darkest of the T. lateralis group.
Top and sides of head and sides of neck to and including forelegs chestnut shaded with black  eyelids pale buff in marked contrast to their surroundings lips throat breast sides of belly and hams rusty feet paler rusty  back from occiput to and including root of tail and defined laterally by red of neck and black of inner body stripe and posteriorly by white of middle stripe including flanks and upper hind legs grizzled rusty black.
White body stripe longest reaching from base of neck nearly to tail  inner black stripe shortest about half the width and length of outer stripe which latter is the same width as white stripe and about twothirds as long.
Belly and chest uniform grizzled black the bases of hairs sooty their tips fulvous.
Tail above like back on proximal third becoming more distinctly margined with a subterminal black band which becomes broader and blacker at tip the outer tips of hairs rusty  beneath the tail is lighter with a broad central area of reddishyellow within the black border.
Skull not appreciably different from that of lateralis except in its larger size.
Measurements of type in millimeters.
 Total length 317 tail vertebrae 114  hind foot 46 Average of five adults length 305 tail 112 foot 46.
Skull  Total length 46 basilar length 38 zygomatic expansion 28.8 interorbital constriction 12 length of nasals 15.7 length of mandible 28 width of mandible 16.2.
Seventeen chipmunks taken by Mr. Rupert in the months of July and September in the vicinity of Snoqualmie Pass Cascade Mts. Washington show closest affinities in many respects with T. lateralis einerascens 9 in the red phase described by Dr. Merriam.
They differ from einerascens in the fact that there is no gray phase the adults of both sexes being similarly colored.
They are also blacker and browner throughout and have a relatively smaller body larger foot and longer tail than einerascens and the median lateral stripe does not reach the ears as in that form and in lateralis.
The very close agreement of the skulls of lateralis and saturatus indicates that the latter is nothing more than the usual Cascade representative of a Rocky Mountain type and it is probable that the relationship of einerascens to lateralis is quite as close.
2 Merriam N. Amer.
Fauna No.
4 1SU 20.
