PROTOPTYCHUS HATCHERI, A NEW RODENT FROM THE UINTA EOCENE.
BY W. B. SCOTT.
[Investigation aided by a grant from the Elizabeth Thompson Fund of the A.
A. A.S.] Mr. J.
B. Hatcher, Curator of vertebrate palaeontology in the Princeton Museum, who is at present (April, 1895) collecting in the Uinta beds, (upper Eocene) of Utah, has lately discovered a small rodent-skull of a previously unknown type, and recognizing its importance, has sent it in to me for examination and description.
The skull proves to be of unusual interest and brings to light some very unexpected facts, which I hasten to bring to the attention of students of the rodents.
The Dentition.
— Only the teeth of the upper jaw (fig.
3) are represented in the specimen, the mandible having been lost.
The dental formula is: II CO PI M3.
As the front end of the rostrum is broken away, only a transverse section of the incisors is visible in the specimen and here they are seen to be rather small and laterally compressed; there is nothing to indicate that these teeth were sulcate.
The premolar, p4, is of only moderate size, not quite so large as ml.
Owing to its somewhat abraded condition, the pattern of this tooth is rather difficult to make out and all that can be clearly seen is a narrow invagination of enamel from the external side, which extends across about half the transverse width of the crown, and on the inner side is an extremely shallow enamel indentation.
The first molar a little exceeds in size any of the other cheek-teeth, though there is not much difference between any of the series in this respect.
In its present condition of wear, this tooth displays a deep invagination of enamel from the outer side of the crown, and a very shallow one from the inner side, which, however, is distinctly better marked than in the premolar.
The second molar is slightly smaller than the first, but of similiar conformation.
The third molar, perhaps in consequence of the fact that it is less worn than the others, is of a somewhat different pattern.
In addition to the enamel invagination from the inner and outer sides, it has two low transverse crests, with a 270 [1895. shallow depression in front of the anterior one and behind the posterior one.
These teeth are all very brachyodont, with transversely oval crowns, and form a slightly curved series with the convexity outward, so that those of the two sides converge at both ends and are most widely separated in the middle.
It is difficult to find among modern rodents any type of dentition which altogether corresponds to the one here described.
The transverse crests visible on mo of Protoptychus (and doubtless in the unworn state of the other teeth, also) have a certain resemblance to the teeth of the squirrels and spermophiles, but the fundamental character of the toothpattern is given by the enamel invaginations, which tend to divide it into two prisms.
This arrangement is most like that found in Pedetes, the Heteromyidce and Geomi/idtr.
The resemblance of the Uinta form to the John Day genera, Entoptyehus and PleuroliFig.
1.
Protoptychus Hateheri; Skull from left side: natural size.
Fig.
2.
Protoptychus Hateheri; Skull from above ; natural size.
cits, especially to the latter which is brachyodont, is decidedly marked.
The Skull.
— It will be3t serve the purposes of this description to consider first the skull as a whole, and then the individual elements which make it up.
Its general aspect suggests various affinities : on the one hand, it has very marked resemblances to the skull of Dipus, especially in the anterior portion, while the posterior portion strongly recalls the corresponding region in Perognatlms, Crieetodipvs, and even Dipodomys.
The skull is quite depressed and elongate and broadens less abruptly toward the hinder end than in those existing genera of Dipodidce and Heteromyidce in which the mastoids are largely inflated.
Seen from above, the outline of the skull has considerable resemblance to that of Heteromys, though with much more prominent mastoid bulhe than in the latter.
In front of the orbits the face is deeply constricted to form the rostrum, which, so far as it is preserved, is not unlike that of Heteromys in shape, but the proportions of the different bones which compose it resemble more the arrangement which obtains in LHpus.
The rostrum is also less tapering and acuminate than in the recent Heteromyidce.
The transverse width of the skull is greatest in the mastoid region, though these bones project but slightly beyond the line of the zygomatic arches and thus the width is nearly uniform from the front of the orbits to the occiput.
In all of the existing Dipodidce the skull is widest across the zygomatic arches.
In Protoptychus the skull is long and narrowas compared with that of Dipus, though not far removed from the proportions of Zap us.
The interorbital constriction is very slight, much as in Heteromys, and thus decidedly less than in Zapus.
Aside from the inflated mastoids, the broadest part of the cranium is across the parietals and behind the orbits.
The hinder part of the cranium displays very large, rounded and swollen mastoids, such as occur in the recent Dipodidce and Heteromyidce, though their shape and construction are more like what we find in the latter family than in the former.
The mastoids encroach more upon the roof of the skull and the occipital plane than in Perognathus or Cricetodipus, and quite as much as in Dipus, though in a somewhat different way and with a different effect upon the surrounding cranial bones from the latter.
In spite of the great size which the mastoids have already attained, small, but distinct temporal fossae are preserved, such as persist in Heteromys, but in no other member of that family.
More of the squamosal is retained on the walls of the cranium in the existing Dipodidce than in Protoptychus, but not such distinctly marked temporal fossie.
The consistency of the bones of the skull, their ridges and angles are much as in Dipus and have not that excessively thin and papery appearance which characterizes Zapus and the recent Heteromyidce.
There is no indication of a sagittal crest.
Viewed in profile, the highest point of the skull is behind the orbits, at the slightly swollen and gently convex parietals, as is also true of Zapus and Perognathus] from this point the upper contour descends gradually in front to the rostrum and behind to the occiput, though the curvature of this surface is but slight.
The inferior surface of the cranium is rendered different in appearance from that of any of the Heteromyidce by the larger size and more spherical form of the tympanic bullae, which have much the same shape as in Dipus, but the bullae are not separated from the neighboring cranial bones by such fissures as occur in the latter and in Pedetes, as well as in Dipodoniys, conforming more in this respect to the condition of Zapus.
The large incisive foramina constitute another point of resemblance to Dipus.
Taking up the structure of the skull more in detail, we find that the rostrum is narrow, decidelv more so than the interorbital space, and quite deep vertically, its diameter in this dimension exceeding the transverse.
The nasals are considerably broader than in Heteromys or Perognatlius and have more the relative width found in Dipus, but they extend much farther back than in any living genus of either family, reaching along their external borders to the middle of the orbits, slightly behind the termination of the ascending processes of the premaxillaries.
In the Dipodidce the nasals cease in front of the orbits and they extend but little more backward in the Heteromyidce.
The hinder ends of the nasals are deeply emarginated to receive the long nasal processes of the frontals, which are far more conspicuous than in either of the modern families named.
Posteriorly the nasals are slightly concave transversely; farther forward they become strongly convex in the same direction and together form a semicylinder.
This anterior convexity is more pronounced than in Dipus and it may indicate a tubular prolongation of the rostrum in front of the incisors, such as occurs in the Heteromyidw.
The nasals are accompanied for nearly their entire length by ascending processes of the premaxillaries, which articulate suturally with the frontals.
On the top of the skull these processes are, as in the Dipodidce, very narrow strips, much narrower than in the Heteromyidce.
Their extension backward is more prolonged than in either family, as they reach almost to the middle of the orbits.
The frontals are short, shorter than in Zapus or Heteromys, except in the median line, where the nasal processes add materially to their length ; they have, however, attained no such degree of shortening as is found in Dijmx.
The interorbital space has about the same relative width as is found in Heteromys, but the supraorbital margin has not the beadlike thickening which occurs in that genus.
Postorbital processes are entirely wanting.
The parietals are not altogether like those of any of the modern genera which have been mentioned; they are longer than in Perognatlius and have not the nearly regular pentagonal shape characteristic of that genus; they are somewhat shorter than in Heteromys and have, as also in the latter, a distinct ridge or angulation running along their external margins, which form small temporal fossa 1 , more distinctly marked than iu any other member of the family.
In Dipus and Pedetes the parietals are very short and wide, while in Zapus they retain much the same proportions as occur in Protoptychus, though they have not the external angulation, nor the concave temporal fossa?
found in the latter.
In the fossil the parietals are slightly swollen and gently convex in both directions, with a shallow depression in the median line.
The interparietal is very large and of a somewhat different shape from that of any 'of the recent genera of the two families.
In the Heteromyinoe this bone is very wide and of varying shapes in the different genera.
Thus, it is elliptical in Perognathus, pentagonal in Cricetodipus, and in Heteromys broadly cordate.
In the Dipodomyinae this bone has become very small and is longer than wide, a condition due to the great encroachments made upon the cranial walls by the enormously inflated mastoids.
Dipus has a broad Fig.
3.
Protoptychus Hatcheri; Skull Fig.
4.
Protoptychus Hatcheri; from below; natural size.
Skull, occipital surface; natural size.
shield-shaped interparietal, Pedetes one which is very short and wide and of peculiar shape, while in Zapus it is a wide ellipse.
The interparietal of Protoptychus differs from that of all the genera named, being very large and of nearly square outline, though the breadth slightly exceeds the length; the latter diameter is, however, much greater relatively than in any of the recent genera, while the narrowing is obviously due to the expansion of the mastoids.
The external ridges of the parietals are continued over upon the borders of the interparietal, which otherwise is nearly plane, but is thus made slightly concave.
The occipital surface is almost flat, except for the protuberances formed by the mastoids, and is considerably higher than wide, the inflated mastoid bulla?
having greatly narrowed it, In general appearance the occiput is quite like that of Pleurolicus diplophysus of the John Day; (see Cope, Tertiary Vertehrata, PI.
LXIV, fig.
9 C ), but in the latter the mastoids are not so much enlarged and the occiput is, consequently, wider than high.
The su preoccipital of Protoptych us most resembles that of the Heteromyidce ; it appears on the top of the skull only as a very narrow strip and, so far as can be judged from the specimen, it does not send out spurs which embrace the interparietal between them, such as are found in Perognathus and ( 'ricetodipus.
On the plane of the occiput the su preoccipital occupies a little more space, but even here it is very narrow from above downward, nearly the whole of this surface being formed by the large exoccipitals.
In Dipus the spurs which enclose the interparietal are very peculiarly shaped, for they are produced downward over the mastoid bullae and articulate with narrow processes given off from the squamosals.
In Pedetes there are no such spurs from the supraoccipital and so far there is a resemblance to the fossil, but the distinct angle made by the occipital plane with the top of the skull in the latter is heteromyine rather than dipodine in character.
In the Uinta genus the foramen magnum is very large in proportion and of subcircular shape, while the occipital condyles are exceedingly small, widely separated from each other and so closely applied to the great bulla?, that it is difficult to see how they could conveniently articulate with the cotyles of the atlas.
No distinct paroccipital processes are observable.
Such processes are distinct in Dipus and still more so in Pedetes, but in Zapus, as in the Heteromyidir, they are exceedingly minute.
The basioccipital and basisphenoid are reduced to excessively narrow, slender rods, which are more attenuated than in any of the Heteromyidce, not even excepting Dipodomys.
In Dipus these two bones form together a wedge-shaped piece, which narrows rapidly forward; the basisphenoid is thus as slender as in Protoptyehus, but the basioccipital is broader.
Much the same statement will apply to Perognathus.
This difference is due to the fact that in the fossil the largely inflated tympanic bulke are of a different shape, and in particular, have a greater transverse diameter proportionately than have any of the modern forms mentioned.
The mastoids are very greatly inflated and form large portions of the auditory bullae, which ai e the most conspicuous and striking features of the skull.
The shape of these structures has resemblance both to the Heteromyidas and the Dipodidce.
The relative size of the mastoids is about the same as in Dipus and Pedetes, but they have a less extension vertically and a greater one antero-posteriorly than in those genera.
In Zapus the mastoids are but moderately inflated, and in Heteromys they are in much the same condition, so as not to form conspicuous parts of the cranial walls.
In Perognathus these bones are much more swollen and conspicuous, but they form comparatively little of the top of the cranium, do not bulge out strongly from the sides of the skull and project but slightly behind the plane of the occiput.
In this genus the mastoid articulates extensively with the parietal and helps to give it its' characteristic pentagonal shape.
In Oricetodipus the mastoids are still more swollen and project so decidedly backward that the proper occipital surface appears like an emargination.
In the Difiodomyince the mastoids are inflated to a most extraordinary degree, reducing all the other cranial bones of that region to mere strips.
In Protoptych us these bones are dilated much more than in either Perognathus or Oricetodipus, though not approximating the enormous size which they attain in Dipodomi/s, and form very conspicuous prominences, which project both laterally and posteriorly.
They do not, however, articulate with the parietals, from which they appear to be separated by the narrow prolongations of the squamosals which form the temporal foss:e. The parietomastoid articulation occurs in the modern forms of both the Dipodidce and the Heteromyidce, even in those genera in which the mastoid is only moderately inflated.
The construction of the mastoid bulhe in the fossil has most resemblance to that of the lleteromyidce.
In Dipus and Pedetes this structure, is high vertically, not much elongated antero-posteriorly and not so divided into chambers that the division is clearly visible from the outer side.
In the fossil, as in Oricetodipus, the mastoid bulla is laterally compressed and more extended antero-posteriorly than laterally; it is divided by partial septa into chambers, two of which are plainly shown, even externally, being bounded by deep grooves.
Of these two chambers, the hinder one is short, high and narrow and lies behind the auditory meatus, while the anterior one is longer, lower and broader and lies above the auditory meatus, the two divisions meeting at nearly a right angle.
In Dipodomys the arrangement is similiar, but the anterior chamber is much more strongly inflated and, in particular, is very much wider.
20 The tympanic portion of the auditory bulla is more swollen and of a different shape from that of any of the recent Heteromyidoe and more resembles that of Dlpus.
It is relatively very large and of hemispherical form, with nearly equal transverse, an teroposterior and vertical diameters, and differs markedly from the elongate, somewhat depressed and flasklike form characteristic of the pocketmice.
The front ends of the two bulla?
are quite near together, but they have not the narrow prolongations, corresponding to the neck of the flask, which are found not only in the pocket-mice, but also in the lower Miocene genus Entoptychus, which I regard as one of the forerunners of the Qeomyidce.
The tympanies are in close apposition to the hasi-occipital and hasi-sphenoid, as in Zapus and Perognathus, not isolated by the fissures which occur in Dip us and Dij»>ilomi/s.
The opening of the auditory n/eatus is nearly circular and forms even less of a tube than in Zapus or Perognathus.
The crowding and displacement of the cranial bones which result from the great development of the mastoid bullae has already in Protoptychus attained a remarkable degree, more advanced than in several of the existing genera.
Compared with the skull of Dipus, in the fossil we find that the elements which lie in front of the mastoid are more reduced.
This is due to the much greater relative size of the brain in the modern genus, which has broadened the f'rontals and parietals in a very striking way, and probably even the greater width of the basi-occipital is due to the same factor.
The Heteromyidce exhibit many differences among themselves in this respect, the displacement being extreme in the Dipodomyince and very moderate in the Heteromyince.
Having reference to this feature only, Protoptychus stands midway between the two sections of the family.
The squamosal is pushed almost entirely into the orbit, but, as has already been mentioned, it appears to send out a process between the parietal and the mastoid, which articulates with the interparietal.
The sutures in this region are, however, so far obliterated as to render this somewhat uncertain, but, at all events, there is at this point a narrow, perfectly distinct and slightly concave temporal fossa, such as exists in Heteromys and in no other member of either of the modern families.
In both the Dipodidce and the Heteromyidte a long spur of the squamosal extends back over the auditory meatus, along the line of suture between the mastoid and the tympanic.
In the fossil this spur is not shown, but as this region has suffered slightly from weathering, it may have been present originally.
If so, it must have been exceedingly tine and thread-like, as it is in Dipodomys.
There is no postorbital ridge or plate, such as is found in Dipus, though not in Zapus.
The zygomatic process is longer and in every way better developed than in the Heteromyidce, hut it does not project out so far from the sides of the skull as in Dipus or Pedetes, but has about the same degree of proportionate development as in Zapus.
It is separated by a considerable interval from the tympanic.
The jugal has been largely weathered away from the specimen, but the anterior portion remains, as well as the imprint of the entire hone on the matrix tilling the orbit of the left side, which allows its shape and connections to be determined with a fair degree of accuracy.
The horizontal portion is longer than in the recent genera of Dipodidce or Heteromyidce, and though very thin and compressed, forming a vertical plate, it is stouter than in any of the modern forms, except Pedetes.
The ascending portion is decidedly broader and is continued up along the anterior edge of the orbit and forms a suture with the lachrymal, as in the recent jumping-m ice.
The form of this process is most like that of Zapus, among the existing genera; it is a wide plate, with recurved external border, convex externally and concave internally, somewhat as in Zapus, though owing to the smaller size of the infraorbital foramen, it is less attenuated.
In Dipus the edge of the plate is not recurved, hut projects directly outward and helps to give the extraordinary breadth which the face has at this point — the widest part of the skull.
The anterior portion of the zygomatic arch is at a lower level than in the recent jumpingmice and here the arch is less horizontal; nor has it the decided downward curvature found in Dipus; in front the arch is not so widely separated from the alveolar portion of the maxillary as in the recent genera.
The zygomatic process of the maxillary is much like that of Zapus.
The infraorbital foramen is a large aperture perforating the zygomatic process; in shape it is high, narrow and somewhat pyriform, resembling that of the typical Muridce, except that its position is reversed, being narrower above than below.
There is no separate canal, or even notch, for the nerve, such as is found in the recent jumping-mice.
The zygomatic process arises a little in advance of the premolar, as it does also in Zapus; in Dipus it is shifted somewhat farther forward, while in Pedetes it extends so far anteriorly that the ascending process of the jugal appears to rise out of the middle of the zygomatic arch.
The zygomatic process of the maxillary is thus merely a slender frame-work enclosing the infraorbital foramen and strengthened on the outer side by the ascending process of the jugal.
This is quite different from the perforated plate of the true mice and still more from the imperforate plate of the Heteromyidce and Geomyidce.
The lachrymal is a very small bone, which is placed at the anterosuperior angle of the orbit and articulates with the frontal and the jugal.
The premaxillaries are large and quite heavy bones, very narrow, but of considerable vertical extent; their palatal surface is reduced to two narrow rods, one on each side of the very large incisive foramina.
The maxillo-premaxillary suture is just in advance of the zygomatic process, as is also the case in Dipus and Zapus, and thus the sides of the rostrum are formed almost entirely by the premaxillse.
The incisive foramina are very large, though the apparent size is increased by the loss of the premaxillary spines; they deeply emarginate the palatal processes of the maxillaries and extend back as far as ml.
The John Day genus Paciculus and several of the recent Dipodidce, such as Zapus, Dipus, Alactaga, etc., have a similar conformation of the incisive foramina, but in the latter they do not cut so deeply into the maxillaries.
This appears to be due to the growth of the part of the maxillaries in front of the premolar which accompanies the forward shifting of the zygomatic process, in Pedetes, in which this shifting has attained its maximum, the foramina have become quite small.
The maxillaries form singularly little of the facial region.
The alveolar portion is low, but quite dense and heavy and forms posteriorly a broad, shelf-like floor of the orbit, which is much larger and heavier than in the recent genera, The bony palate is short from before backward, quite broad and gently arched from side to side.
The limits of the palatine bones cannot be made out in the specimen.
The posterior nares have much the same shape and position as in Zapus, being broad and extending forward to the middle of mo.
The pterygoids abut against the tympanies and there are quite large pterygoid fossa 1 .
The cranial foramina are not satisfactorily displayed in the specimen.
A large sphenoid tissure is visible in the orbit, but the alisphenoid canal, if originally present, has been destroyed.
The new genus and species may he defined as follows: PKOTOPTYCHUS.
Gen. nov. p : , in L, cheek-teeth brachyodont, in the worn condition with deep enamel invagination from outer side and shallow depression on inner side of crown.
Infraorbital foramen large, pyriform, perforating zygomatic process of maxillary.
Jngal articulating with lachrymal (?).
Mastoids much inflated, in degree intermediate between those of Cricetodipus and Dipodomys; tympanies much inflated and hemispherical.
Interparietal nearly square.
Incisive foramina very large.
P. Hatcheri n. sp.
Length of skull about as in Perodipus Ordi.
Internal enamel invagination of p i much less marked than in m grinding teeth of nearly equal size, m _L slightly larger than the others.
Nasals wide.
Occiput higher than wide.
This species is dedicated to its discoverer, Mr. J.
B. Hatcher, whose long and arduous labors in behalf of palaeontology have been crowned with such brilliant success.
Length of skull from inion to zyg.
proc.
of max.
Breadth of skull at mastoids Breadth of skull across zygomatic arches Breadth of skull at interorbital space Width of rostrum at base .007 The Affinities of Protoptychus.
It has been remarked that fossils do not aid materially in clearing away morphological difficulties, because they raise as many problems as they solve.
Such a stricture, while not justified in the case of a nearly complete phylogenetic series, is only too applicable to isolated genera, such as Eloiheriwn, or in the case of a few scattered and widely separated links in a phyletic chain.
To the latter class, unfortunately Protoptychus belongs and there is much about it that is extremely puzzling.
It is, in the first place, altogether unexpected to find that the curious and highly specialized family of the Dipodidoe should extend back with so little change to the upper Eocene.
This Measurements.
M.M.
M.M.
Height of'rostrum at base .009 0.027 Interparietal, length .007 Interparietal, width .009 .020 Occiput, height .0095 Occiput, width .008 .0175 M/)lar premolar series, length .008 .010 Molar series, length .0055 is, however, only another instance of the continuity of the American rodent fauna, which, scanty as it is, pursues a much more unbroken course than that of Europe.
Still more surprising is it to find that one of the peculiarities which especially mark this family, namely, the inflation of the temporal region and the concomitant reduction of the adjoining cranial bones, have already attained such an advanced degree.
Finally, to add to the confusion, we observe that with features characteristic of the Dipodidce are combined certain structures resembling those of the Heteromyidce, such as the dentition and the shape and divisions of the mastoid bullae, while the infraorbital foramen is like that of the Muridce.
That Protoptychus is an ancestral form of the Dipodidce seems abundantly clear.
The long, narrow and incapacious cranium, though in strong contrast with that of Dipus, is not very unlike the cranium of Zapus, and these differences are just what the analogy of other mammalian groups would lead us to expect.
The character of the infraorbital foramen offers no difficulty to this view, for its gi-eat size in the modern jumpingmice cannot be a primitive feature and the condition found in Protoptychus is a starting point from which the modern character of the family could easily be derived.
The teeth are, it is true, quite different from those of any of the recent genera, and yet the amount and kind of change necessary to produce the latter are not greater than have demonstrably occurred in many other families.
Among the existing jumpingmice there is great diversity in, the structure of the molars, which it is difficult to reduce to any common plan.
As yet no member of the family has been detected in the White River formation, but in the succeeding John Day beds the line is carried forward by Paciculus.
This genus cannot well be directly ancestral to any of the recent genera, because it has lost all the premolars; but in all other respects, in which its structure is known, it stands in an intermediate position between Protoptychus and Dipus.
The molar pattern is already very similar to that of Dipus; the infraorbital foramen has become very large and its lower portion Conns a distinct notch for the passage of the nerve.
The interorbital constriction is much deeper than in Dipus, but the cranium has commenced to widen much more markedly than in Pnotoptychus.
The incisive foramina and posterior nares remain very much as in the Uinta genus.
The posterior part of the cranium in the only known skull is so much injured that the character of the mastoids cannot he made out, though they could not have been as large as in Protoptychus, but the tympanies are seen to form large, hemispherical bullae, with very large mental openings, which do not form tubes.
The lateral view of the skull bears considerable resemblance to that of Neotoma, as an ancestor of which Padculus is regarded by ( 'ope.
If the view as to the systematic position of Protoptychus which is here advocated be correct, it follows that the Dipodidce were separated from the true mice at a very early period, and that they form a very distinct line.
It offers, however, no objection to the inclusion of the jumping-mice among the Myomorpha, tor the special peculiarities of the infraorbital canal in the former are shown to be derivative from the murine type.
The articulation of the jugal with the lachrymal is probably a primitive feature, which the Dipodidce have retained; this articulation is not only usual among the mammals generally, but is also found in the earliest rodents, such as Paramys.
Another conclusion which follows from the reference of Protoptychus to the ancestors of the Dipodidce is in regard to the position which should be assigned to Zapus.
This genus displays the skull characteristics of the Dipodidce in a much less extreme degree than the other existing members of the family.
This is especially true of the auditory bulla, the mastoid portion of which is very small and but little inflated.
If Protoptychus be really ancestral to the Dipodidce, then Zapus either must have suffered a degradation and reduction of the mastoid elements, or it is not related to the jumping-mice at all.
The first alternative is much the more probable one.
This mode of development, namely, the advance of a certain structure up to a maximum, followed by a decline in that structure, is not an uncommon occurrence, and is so familiar that it would be superfluous to cite examples here.
Such an alternation in the development of one or more parts is compatible with the continually advancing ditiereutiation of the organism as a whole.
If this conclusion be well founded, then Zapus is not, in any sense, a connecting link between the Muridce and the Dipodidce, but a simplified member of the latter.
We have, as yet, no means of determining how far the footstructure of Zapus retains its primitive characters, but judging from the analogy of other groups, it is probable that the foot is primitive rather than retrograde.
In very many, perhaps the majority of cases, the skull is modernized earlier than the feet.
A very much more difficult problem is to determine what relation, if any, exists between Protoptychus and the Heteromyidce.
In most schemes of classification this family and the Geomyidce are referred to the Myomorpha, but several authorities deny the propriety of such a reference.
Winge/in particular, rejects the division of the simplicidentate rodents into three sections, and founds his arrangement of the order principally upon the characters of the masticatory muscles and upon the modifications of the skull which accompany these characters.
On account of the anterior position of the infraorbital foramen and the imperforate zygomatic process of the maxillary, the "Sacomyidce" (which include both families) are brought into relation with the beavers, marmots and squirrels.
The obvious objection to this method of classification is that it ignores the possibility of the independent acquisition of similiar structures in widely separated series, through convergent or parallel development, processes, the reality and frequency of which are not open to question.
All available evidence goes to show that in the primitive rodent type the zygomatic process of the maxillary was perforated by a large opening, and that the jngal extended up along the anterior edge of the orbit to the lachrymal.
There is nothing impossible in the suggestion that the condition of these parts found in the Geomyidce and Heteromyidce may have been derived from some such arrangement as that which occurs in Protoptychus.
In the latter the dentition and the structure of the cranium also suggest a relationship with the Heteromyidce.
It is, however, not at all probable that the Uinta genus is directly ancestral to any of the latter family, because the condition of the incisive foramina is so totally different.
Until the connecting links are recovered, it will not be possible to decide whether the suggestive resemblances between Protoptychus and the pocket-mice are due to any actual relationship, or are merely instances of convergence.
As a contribution to this question, it may be of use to consider the relationship between the Geomyidce and the Heteromyidce.
In contrasting these two families, Cones 2 has enumerated the following points 1 Winge, If.
Rongeurs fossiles et vivants tie Lagoa Santa, Miuas Geraes, Bresil.
E Museo Lundii.
I. Copenhagen, 1888.
2 Cones, /'.. and J.
A. Allen, Monographs of North American Kodenls.
U. S. Geolog.
Survey of the Territories, Vol.
XI, pp.
492-3. of difference between them.
Certain of his categories are here omitted, as not hearing upon the points to he discussed and some verbal changes have been made to render the nomenclature consistent with that used in the body of this paper.
GEOMYIDiE.
1.
Skull massive, angular, in 1. general of an arvicoline superficies.
2.
[nterorbital space narrower than rostrum.
:;.
Skull widest across zygomatic :'•.
arches.
4 Palate sloping strongly down4. ward, far below level of zygomata.
5.
Nasals not produced beyond 5. incisors, rostrum broad, blunt, parallel sided.
6.
Frontals compressed.
6.
7.
Parietals compressed, irregu7. larly linear, remote from orbits.
8.
Squamosal roofing most of cerebral cavity, from roof of which mastoids are excluded.
'K Auditory meatus contracted, 9. tubular.
10.
Tympanic bullae widely discrete.
11.
Supraoccipital broad, forming 11 most of occipital plane, but not mounting on top of skull.
12.
Molars rootless.
12.
13.
Large, erect, falcate corouoid, 13. ovei topping condyle.
14.
Lower jaw large and strong.
14.
15.
Fore-limbs highly fossorial; 15. claws much enlarged, fitted for digging.
16.
Eyes and ears minute.
16.
17.
Habits completely subter17. raneau.
HETEROMYIDjE.
( excl.
Heteromys. )
Skull delicate, with rounded oil angles and slight ridges, if any.
Luterorbital space much wider than rostrum.
Skull widest across mastoids.
Palate nearly horizontal, little, if any, below level of zygomata.
Nasals produced beyond incisors, rostrum compressed, tapering, acute.
Frontals very broad.
Parietals broad, triangular or pentagonal, coming to edge of orbits.
Squamosals mostly or wholly restricted to orbits; mastoids roofing much of cerebral cavity.
Meatus inflated, vestibular.
Tympanies approximated or in contact at apices.
Supraoccipital contracted, scarcely or not entering occipital plane, but mounting to top of skull to there embrace interparietal between its forks.
Molars rooted (except in Dipodomyince).
Small, sloping, prickle-shaped corouoid, below condyle.
Lower jaw small and weak.
Hind-limbs saltatorial.
Foreclaws not enlarged or specially fossorial.
Eyes and ears large.
Habits exposed.
The two families agree in the following respects: (1) The mastoids are much inflated (except in Heteromys) and occupy much of the superior or occipital surfaces of the skull, or both.
(2) The infra284 [1895. orbital foramen is small and perforates the maxillary far in front of the zygomatic process, which is expanded and imperforate, much as in the Sciuromorphs.
(3) The hinder end of the incisor makes a protuberance on the mandible below the condyle.
(4) There are large fur-lined cheek-pouches, opening externally.
That the Geomyidce and the Heteromyidce are closely related to one another is admitted by all who have studied them, almost the only difference of opinion on the subject being as to whether they should be grouped in one family or in two.
Just wherein this relationship consists is another and less simple question and it may be answered in one of three ways: (1) The Geomyidce have descended from the Heteromyidce; or (2) the latter have descended from the former; or (3) both should be derived from a common ancestor which was not sufficiently differentiated to be properly referred to either family.
Improbable as it may appear, the evidence distinctly favors the first of these three alternatives.
To regard the manifold resembhmces between the two groups as due to parallelism or convergence is a mere assumption which is without any evidence to sustain it.
The belief that the Geomyidce have descended from the Heteromyidce involves the inference that the comparatively small size of the mastoid in the former is the result of reduction from a more exaggerated development.
The John Day genera Entoptychtis and Pleurolicus, which differ from each other Fig.
5.
Pleurolu us diplophysus ; cranium, from above: natural size.
From Cope.
Fig.
C. Pleurolicus diplophysus ; occiput, from behind; natural size.
From Cope.
only in the fact that the latter has rooted and the former rootless molars, throw much light on this question.
In skull structure they arc so nearly intermediate between the two families, that the reference of them to either seems somewhat arbitrary, though, on the whole, they incline distinctly to the Geomyidce, as is shown in the following points of resemblance: (1) The interorbital space is narrower than the rostrum; (2) the palate is sloping and below the level of the zygomatic arches; (3) the nasals are not produced beyond the incisors and the rostrum is broad, blunt and parallelsided; (4) the frontals are very narrow; (5) the parietals are narrow, linear and do not extend to the orbits: (6) the supraoecipital does not extend upon the top of the skull; (7) the lower jaw is large and strong; (8) the skull is massive and angular, with well defined ridges and in some species with a sagittal crest.
On the other hand, the resemblances to the Heteromyidoe are confined to the.
temporal and occipital regions.
(1) The greatest width of the skull is across the mastoids; (2) the auditory meatus is inflated and in some species vestibular; (3) the tympanies form large bullae and have the anterior flask-like prolongation found in most of the recent Heteromyidoe, but their apices are more widely separated; (4) the mastoids are largely inflated and appear on the top of the skull, but roof in less of the cranial cavity than iu most of the recent genera; (5) the occiput is almost square and much narrowed by the encroachment of the mastoids.
The shape and position of the infraorbital and incisive foramina and the protuberance on the mandible formed by the end of the incisor are as in the modern members of both families.
The coronoid process of the mandible is intermediate in character, being larger and higher than in the recent Heteromyidce, smaller and lower than in the Geomyidce.
A difference from both is in the shape of the mandibular angle, which is large, falciform and but little • verted.
The limb-bones, so far as they are known, resemble those of Thomomys, except for the presence of the third trochanter on the femur.
These John Day genera are quite inexplicable except upon the hypothesis that they are ancestral to the Geomyidce ; to regard them as an offshoot of the Geomyidce which have in some respects paralleled the Heteromyidce is a purely gratuitous assumption unsupported by any evidence.
The existing Geomyidce are all exclusively subterranean and fossorial in their habits, with very small eyes and ears, and in them any extreme delicacy of hearing would be out of place.
Further, the inflated mastoids of the existing pocket-gophers are intelligible enough as a character acquired under different circumstances of life and retained now in a reduced degree, while it is difficult to see how such a character should ever be acquired by burrowing animals.
Another fact pointing to the same conclusion is that, as Merriam 3 has shown in his admirable monograph, the ;1 Merriam.
C. H. Monographic Revision <>f the Pocket Gophers, etc.
U. S. Dep't of Agriculture, North American Fauna, No.
8, Washington, 1895. mastoid bullae are filled with cancellous bone, which there is reason to believe is a sign of degeneracy.
Similar reductions of the tympanic bullae are not infrequent.
To give but one example out of many, iu the recent peccaries the tympanies form small bullae filled with cancellous hone, while in the White River ancestor of the group, Perchcerus, the bullae are hollow and largely inflated.
It is altogether unlikely, on the other hand, that Entoptychus and Pleurolicus can be ancestral to the Heteromyidce, because, in the first place, the skull and skeleton are too fur advanced on the line of the pocket-gophers and indicate that the burrowing habit had already been more or less perfectly acquired, and, in the second place, because in the imperfectly known White River genera Gymnoptychus and Heliscomys we seem to find distinctly marked forerunners of the pocket-mice.
SUMMARY.
(I ) Protoptychus, a now rodent from the Uinta Eocene, is an unexpectedly modernized form, which has already acquired very large mastoid bullae, a rostrum, incisive foramina and posterior nares greatly resembling those of the jumping-mice, and, as in that family, the articulation of the jugal with the lachrymal is retained.
The infraorbital foramen is of the murine type.
The dentition and the shape and construction of the mastoid and surrounding parts of the cranium most resemble those of the Heteromyidce.
i 2) The genus is probably to be regarded as the ancestral type of the Dipodidce and indicates an American origin for this family, being much more ancient than any known representative of the group in the Old World, which it appears to have reached by a comparatively late migration.
Paciculus of the John Day beds is a somewhat aberrant number of the same line.
(3) It is not improbable that the Heteromyidce were derived from some form related to Protoptychus, though not from that genus itself.
( I ) The Geomyidce are descended from early forms which may West he referred to the Heteromyidce and in which the tympanies and the mastoids were already greatly inflated.
The assumption of subterranean habits of life brought about a reduction in this region of the skull and led to the acquisition of the many peculiarities which characterize the recent pocket-gophers.
Pleurolicus and Entoptychus represent stages in this change and are more or less directly ancestral to the modern Geomyidce.
