NOTE ON A UNIFORM PLAN OF DESCRIBING THE HUMAN SKULL.
By Harrison Allen M. D. In a recent study of the human skull I attempted to frame a method of uniform description which answers a useful purpose.
Assuming that the skull presents a norma frontalis a norma basilaris a norma lateralis and a norma verticalis the followiDg order of procedure is recommended.
Beginning at the norma frontalis and proceeding from above downward I note the following  The degree of prominence of the glabella and supraorbital ridges by defining an arc between nasion and ophryon by a piece of flexible wire drawing a chord for the arc and measuring the versed sine.
In a given case it would read as follows  g. and s. o. r.5 mm..
Next the degree of deflection of the supraorbital margin is recorded on a protractor.
In a given case s. o. m.40.
The nasal bones yield three portions  iQ frontal portion whicH is bounded above by the frontal bone the maxillary portion which lies between the frontal bone and premaxilla  the jireviaxillary portion which lies in contact with the premaxilla.
The frontal portion is measured from the union of the nasal bone and the ascending process of the maxilla to the proximal free end of the lateral margin of the nasal bone.
The maxillary portion constitutes the greater part of the bone and lies entirely in contact with the ascending process of the maxilla.
The premaxillary portion is the least well defined and lies on the lateral margin of the bone a few millimeters above the free distal margin of the bone.
The suture between the premaxilla and maxilla is never found after an early stage of development  notwithstanding this the manner in which the premaxilla and the nasal bones unite in the apes taken together with the ranges of variation in this same line as noted in the human subject give the observer an accurate imjression of the extent of nasopremaxillary junction.
The texture of the nasopremaxillary suture is distinctive.
The nasal bone is further divided into two parts that which lies in contact with the frontal bone and the ethmoid bone and is outside of the nasal chamber and that which lies below the one last named and is entirely within the nasal chamber  the first part will receive the name of radix and the last part the name of salient.
The degrees of angulation of both radix and salient being measured on a protractor we have in a given ease the following formulae n. f. 4 mm n. mx.
10 mm.
 n. pr.
2 mm.
 r. 7 mm. 90 s. 10 mm. 40.
The next region in order is the vestibule of the nasal chamber which is accepted as the nasal aspect of the premaxilla as seen at the floor of the nose.
When the parts of this region are as in the child it is called pcedomorphic but when the psedomorphic features have not been retained the departures from this type are defined as follows  The height and elevation of the vestibule just in advance of the incisive foramina receives the name of incisive eminence the degree of definition of the line extending from the sides of the anterior nasal aperture to the anterior spine receives the name of the alveolar line since it defines the alveolus proximally the alveolus measured from the alveolar line to the alveolar point of Broca a.15 mm..
The nasal vestibule may be in addition macrolophic microlophic or analophic depending upon the degree of development of the incisor crest.
This is held to be a better classification of the parts than that present by writers.
The most primitive type is the analophic  the most frequent in modern cultivated races is the macrolophic.
The North American Indian tends to be microlophic and passes from this infrequently to the analophic.
He is rarely macrolophic.
Turning to the norma basilaris and describing from before backward the hard palate is described in the terms of Broca hyperbolic parabolic or Ushaped.
The choanre are either psedomorjhic or broader at base than at apex  the diameter is to be taken ch.
psedom.
diam.
22 mm..
The pyramidal process of the palatal bone measures in length in a given case 12 mm.
pyr.
pr.12 mm..
The spinous process of the sphenoid bone whether it separates from or unites with the tympanic bone is to be noted  if united with this whether the line of union is posterior to that of the Gasserian fissure.
In a given case sp.
pr.
not in contact with tym..
The foramen lacerum medium whether open or closed is to be observed.
In a given case f. 1. m. open.
The petrosal part of the tympanic bone whether narrowed or broad by being inflated on the median aspect.
In a given case p. inflated.
Passing now to the norma lateralis it is noted that the temporal ridge is found interrupted at the stephanion  in a given case Sinterruption10 mm.
and that the temporal ridge is divided into two parts the frontotemporal ridge and the parietaltemporal ridge In a given case fr.
t. r. spinose pt.
r.
nil..
The parietotemporal ridge as it reaches the lambdoidal suture begins to be slightly raised above the plane of the parietal bone and is joined to the occipital bone near the asterion by a harmonic suture  or as it reaches the lambdoidal suture it has no influence in changing the serrated character of this line which extends to the asterion in the manner described by writers.
In a given case we have p. t. r. harmonic near A. 3 mm..
The posterior margin of the frontal process of the malar bone may be produced in a conspicuous process the marginal process or it may be absent.
In a given casemarg.
pr.
trenchant.5 mm.
high.
If desirable the height of theprocess could be measured by a line drawn across its base.
The interruption of the temporal ridge at the stephanion the harmonic character of the lambdoidal suture near the asterion and the large size of the marginal process correlate with the size of the temporal muscle.
The line of the parietosquamosal suture at its junction with the portioji of the temporal bone back of the squamosa may be marked by a mortise which answers to the summit of the petrosa as it joins the side of the skull  thus we have m.3 mm..
The term  sconce  is used to express in a general sense the region on the norma verticalis which lies between the parietotemporal ridges.
This diameter at its narrowest part is recorded in a given instance as sc.
110 ram..
The lower jaw yields at the condyloid process two facets the lateral which articulates with the zygoma and the median which articulates with the squamosa beneath the braincase.
The median facet is more variable than the lateral and may be horizontal and inclined upward or horizontal inclined downward.
In a given case condyl.
pr.
med.
fac.
horizontal.
The coronoid process may project at base so far forward as to conceal in whole or in part the third molar when the parts are seen in norma lateralis or it may lie so far back as to permit the third molar to be seen.
In a given case or.
pr.
concealing 3 mm..
The mental foramen may be on a line with the first molar in the interval between premolar and first molar on the line of the second premolar or on a line between the first and second premolar.
In a given case m. f on line of 3 m..
The masseteric impression ends on a line answering to the angle of the jaw or stops at a distance proximal to it  the area between those two lines constitutes the lemurme process.
In a given instance Im.
pr.3 mm.
wide.
The genial spine may be single or double.
The genial crest trenchant rudi mental or absent.
In a given case g. s. double  g. c.
nil..
In reviewing the characters which have been thus employed the glabella and supraorbital ridge g. and s. o. r. almost universally constitute male characters of low grade.
We expect in primitive man this character to be better developed than in more recent man and be more apt to enter into composition of the supraorbital margin s. 0. m..
No doubt is felt in accepting these important features in the descriptions of skulls.
The degree of declination of s. o. r. is of importance in distinguishing long slender from broad flat faces indeed it stands as a sign of character of face.
Analysis of the nasal region needs no defence since craniologists are of one mind that on the whole the best characters separating crania are to be found in this region  hence the care taken to define the relations of the nasofrontal the maxillary and the premaxillary portions.
For the terms radix and salient I am alone responsible.
The value of the vestibule would appear also to admit of no argument.
The distinction between ptedomorphic and other forms in the writer's judgment is the best means of separating the types of the anterior nasal apertures from one another.
The value of the alveolus and the shape of the hard palate as defined by Broca needs no comment at this place.
The length of the pyramidal process has been neglected by writers.
I find it of value in the comparative anatomy of race.
The shape of the choanse having been defined I recognize two types one of which is psedomorphic and is oval and the other in which the base is wider than the apex.
The group last named may be subdivided by the rectangular form in which the basal and the lateral contour unite to form a right angle and the produced in which the basal contour is extended downward and outward beyond the line of the lateral contour.
The study of the choanse is of importance  the limitations have not been satisfactorily determined.
The degrees of development of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone have likewise been neglected.
It overlaps the line of the Gasseriau and the sphenoidotympanic fissures forward to a remarkable extent and for the mosl part sex can be distinguished the process being large and prominent in males and rudimental or absent in females.
The divisions of the temporal ridge ioto two parts the frontotemporal and the parietotemporal and an interruption between the two is one of the best characters by which sex can be distinguished  the same is true of the conversion of the asterionic portion of the lambdoidal suture from a serrated to a harmonic tyje.
The value of the marginal process of the malar bone in distinguishing sex is conceded.
The mortise in the squamosoparietal suture and the division of the condyloid process into two facets are of secondary value.
The degree of concealment of the third molar has been overlooked considering the significance that this relation possesses in studies of the horizontal ramus.
It is evident that the degree of concealment of the third molar is in direct ratio to the reduction of size of the dentigerous portion of the bone and all things being equal is an evidence of the departure from the primitive type.
The phylogenetic value of the socalled lemurine process of Albrecht needs to be defined.
I have noted this process in the gibbon.
The position of the mental foramen with respect to the sockets of the premolars and the first molar teeth is a character in osteology not to be gainsaid.
In view of the results of Topinard in studying the region of the mental symphysis in primitive man it is necessary to describe accurately all structural variation at this place hence peculiarities in the shapes of the genial spine and the genial crest are given.
