NEW SPECIES OF THE HELICOID GENUS POLYGYRA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
At the request of Mr. John Ponsonby of London, the determination of a series of Polygyras of unknown or doubtful specific identity, from his collection, was undertaken by the writer.
In the course of this work, the Mexican species of the genus were reviewed, the identification of the Academy's material verified, and several specific forms, hitherto nameless or under incorrect names, were studied.
The following communication relates to species of that characteristic " Lower Sonoran " group of Polygyra, of which P. plagioglossa and P. ventrosula represent approximately the extremes in the cycle of form changes.
The types of P. latispira, matermontana and eiighjpta' are in the collection of the Academy.
The types of P. Ponsonbyi are in the same collection and that of Mr. Ponsonby ; and the type of P. albicostulata is in Ponsonby's collection.
These five species, with P. Mearnsii and P. chiricahuana Dall (Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1895), and P. solidens and P. triangularis Mabille (Bull.
Soc.
Philomath, de Paris, 1895) complete the list of Polygyras given in the Guide to the Study of Helices, pp.
73, 74.
P. latispira n. sp.
PI.
Ill, figs.
13, 14, 15, 16.
Shell depressed, with convex spire, rounded but noticeably shouldered periphery and convex base; unibilicated, the umbilicus within deep and cylindrical, about "8 mm.
diam., at the last whorl rapidly enlarging, 2"3 mm.
diam., or contained about five times in the diameter of the shell, conspicuously grooved inside.
Surface very closely and regularly rib-striate, moderately shining.
Light yellow or buff" in color.
Whorls 52, closely coiled, slowly widening, rather convex, having an oblique impression behind the outer, and an excavation behind the basal lip.
Suture well impressed, descending only a trifle at the aperture.
Aperture quite oblique, roundly lunate, the lip forming two-thirds of a circle, rather narrowly reflexed ; outer lip bearing an inwardly projecting pointed tooth ; basal lip with a slightly keeled face along its outer half, the inner part bearing a rather long, low, callous tooth with the summit a trifle flanged outwardly.
Deep within the aperture a lobe-like tooth may be seen on the columella.
Parietal tooth small, V-shaped, the outer ridge of the V extremely short.
Alt.
6, greater diam.
lit, lesser IO2 mm.
The specimens serving as types were collected some years ago (about 1880) by Dr. Horatio C. Wood in western Texas, either in the " Great Bend " of the Rio Grande or near El Paso, exact locality not noted.
The species is somewhat allied to P. plag log lossa, having about the same general contour and agreeing in the proportions of the parietal lamella; but the armature of the basal lip is conspicuously different, and there is a deep-seated lamella on the columella, such as well developed examples of P. Mooreana show, but apparently united by a low ridge with the inner end of the basal tooth.
This lamella corresponds to the groove within the umbilicus, and is not visible in the drawings.
P. matermontana n. sp.
PI.
Ill, figs.
10, 11, 12.
Shell depressed, with low, convex spire, rounded periphery and convex base ; umbilicated, the axial perforation small and deep, at the last whorl rapidly enlarging to about one-fifth the diameter of shell.
Surface shining, faintly wrinkled by growth-lines and showing under the lens superficial close spirals in some places; light horn colored.
Whorls 5i, quite convex, the inner slowly increasing, narrow, the last decidedly wider, notably convex above, with the periphery above the middle ; deeply and narrowly constricted behind the lip.
Suture well impressed, abruptly deflexed in front.
Aperture quite oblique, rounded oval, the lip forming over twothirds of the circumference ; outer lip broadly expanded, flaring, bearing a concave lamella with a denticle at the lower end on its inner edge ; basal lip reflexed, with a compressed, slightly entering tooth.
Parietal callus a translucent film, bearing a V-shaped lamella not connected with the peristome, the outer branch of the V very short.
Alt.
5"2, greater diam.
9*5, lesser 8 mm.
Colima, Sierra Madre Mts., Mexico.
Besides the types from above locality, there is one specimen in the collection of the Academy labelled " ^Mexico " differing in size, alt.
6*1, greater diam.
11 mm., and having 6 whorls.
It agrees in all other characters and is doubtless the same specifically.
Two other specimens labelled "Texas" are altogether like the types.
P. matermontana is like texasiana in the notch between the two lip-teeth, but the outer tooth is a more pronounced and shorter lamella, the parietal " V " is less developed, and the upper surface is not costalate.
The parietal lamella is much alike in matermontana and laUsjiira, the outer branch being much less developed than in Ixichardsoni, veidrosula or bicru7-is.
The umbilicus is like that of latispira, being slightly more ample than in texasiana, and with the central well, or perforation decidedly larger.
This species and the three following have nearly the same form of aperture teeth and are very similar to other species grouping immediately around P. ventrosula in this respect.
The comparative width of umbilicus, the sculpture, and to a less extent, the contour, differ in the several forms.
The inverted T shaped tooth upon the outer lip, formed by a lamella parallel to the lip-edge with a shorter one at its lower end, transverse to it, is characteristic of the group.
P. Ponsonbyi n. sp.
PI.
II.
figs.
1, 2, .3.
Shell globose-depressed, with low conoid-convex spire, rounded periphery and convex base.
Umbilicus one-sixth the diameter of shell, with flattened, nearly vertical w^alls, narrowing to a perforation beyond the last whorl.
Surface shilling, smooth except for extremely faint growth-wrinkles ; corneous-brown, with a chestnutbrown super-peripheral band on the bodywhorl, appearing on the spire as a narrow sutural margiuation.
AVhorls 5?, convex, slowly widening, the last decidedly wider, tumid on the latter half of the base, deeply and narrowdy constricted behind the outer and basal lips.
Suture well and evenly impressed, abruptly and deeply deflexed in front.
Aperture very oblique, rounded-oval, the lip forming three-fourths of the circumference.
Outer lip broadly flaring, its inner edge bearing a short concave lamella, with a projecting compressed tooth at its lower end ; basal lip reflexed, with a similar compressed tooth.
Parietal wall bearing a short, erect, straight lamina parallel with the basal lip, and having a very short V-branch at the outer end ; the inner termination not extending to the columella insertion.
Alt.
5, greatest diam.
8*2, lesser 7*2 mm.
Types from Mexico, exact locality not known, in the collections of John Ponsonby and the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philad.
Like ventrosula and Richardsoni in the teeth of the lip, but more globose than either, parietal tooth with only a trace of the outer branch of the V, base more tumid, and umbilicus of last whorl more well-like.
P. euglypta n. sp.
PI.
II, figs.
7, 8, 9.
Shell obese, with low conic spire, rounded-angular peripherynear the top of last whorl, sloping outer wall and convex, tumid base.
Umbilicated, a central perforation expanding at last whorl to form an umbilicus about one-sixth the diam.
of shell, and with the wall rising almost vertically from its suture.
Surface of outer 1^ whorls sculptured with sharp, strong and regular thread-like sigmoid riblets, subobsolete and more numerous by intercalation in the immediate vicinity of the umbilicus ; the inner whorls of spire smooth.
Whorls 4^-41, the inner slowly increasing, last whorl much wider, very deeply constricted and excavated behind the outer and basal lips.
Suture impressed, deeply descending in front.
Aperture extremely oblique, transversely oval, the lip forming three-fourths of the circumference, upper and basal margins subparallel.
Outer lip broadly flaring, with a short lamella on its inner edge, formed of a compressed, slightly entering portion joined T-like to a short lamella parallel to the inner lip-edge ; basal lip reflexed, bearing a compressed, entering tooth similar to the lower portion of the T on outer lip.
Parietal tooth like a narrow, slanting V, the two branches united with the ends of the lip.
Alt.
5*3. greater diam.
9"5, lesser 8'2 mill.
Alt.
4"3, greater diam.
7"5, lesser 6'4 mill.
Cinaloa (larger form) and Mazatlan (smaller form).
A member of the P. ventrosula group, distinguished from veyitrosula, Hindsi, Richardsoni and bicruris by the very strong, sharp ribstriation of the last IJ whorls.
P. albicostulata n. sp.
PI.
II, figs.
4, 5, 6.
Shell obese, with convex spire, periphery much above middle of body-whorl, and tumid base.
Umbilicated, the umbilicus narrow and deep, with vertical walls, not much enlarging at last whorl, where it measures about one-ninth the diameter of the shell; within the umbilicus the last Avhorl has a deep spiral furrow, obliquely passing into the groove behind the basal lip.
Surface shining, the latter two whorls sculptured with coarse whitish riblets with corneous brown spaces ; inner whorls nearly smooth, corneous brown.
Whorls 54, weakly convex, the last very obtusely angular at its origin, becoming rounded and tumid on the latter half, deeply and narrowly constricted behind the outer and basal lips.
Suture slightly impressed, rather abruptly and deeply deflexed in front.
Aperture oblique, oblong, the upper and basal margins subparallel ; outer lip reflexed, its inner edge bearing a concave lamina ending below in a denticle ; basal lip reflexed, impinging on the umbilicus, with a compressed tooth separated from the lamella on outer lip by a deep squarish sinus, a gentle swelling to the left of it.
Parietal wall glazed with a translucent film, and bearing a long Vshaped tooth, the outer branch of which is short and not connected with the upper insertion of outer lip.
Alt.
5*5, greatest diam.
85, lesser 7'5 mm.
Type in collection of Mr. John Ponsonby of London.
It is said to be from Mexico, and has the appearance of a northern Mexican shell.
The strong, whitish rib-strise, narrow and nearly regular umbilicus with spiral groove within on the last whorl, and the aperture much as in euglypta, Riehardsoni and ventrosula, are a combination of characters amply sufficient to distinguish this species from other forms now known ; and while I am opposed on principle to the description of species without exact locality record, it seems best in some cases to depart from this salutary rule.
I do not think any one will have difficulty in recognizing the species, as no other Polygyra having the apertural characters of this one, presents a similar umbilicus or sculpture.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES II and III.
Polygyra Ponsonbyi n.
sp., seen from below.
Polygyra Ponsonbyi n.
sp., anterior view.
Polygyra Ponsonbyi u.
sp., aperture, the plane of peristome at a right angle to line of vision, Polygyra albicostulata n.
sp., from below.
Polygyra albicostulata n.
sp., anterior view.
Polygyra albicostulata n.
sp., aperture, the plane of peristome at a right angle to line of vision.
Fig.
7.
Polygyra euglypta n.
sp., aperture, the plane of peristome at right angle to line of vision.
Fig.
8.
Polygyra euglypta n.
sp., seen from below.
Fig.
9.
Polygyra euglypta n.
sp., anterior view.
Fig.
10.
Polygyra matermontana n.
sp., anterior view.
Fig.
11.
Polygyra matermontana n.
sp., seen from above.
Fig.
1.
Fig.
2 Fig.
3, Fig.
4 Fig.
5, Fig.
6, Fig.
12.
Polygyra materraontana n.
sp., seen from below.
• Fig.
13.
Polygyra latispira n.
sp., anterior view.
Fig.
14.
Polygyra latispira u.
sp., seen from below.
Fig.
15.
Polygyra latispira n.
sp., seen from above.
Fig.
16.
Polygyra latispira n.
sp., aperture, the plane of peristome at a right angle to line of vision.
DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSKS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Marginella Veliei n. sp.
Shell oblong, the body-whorl tapering (somewhat Conus-like) from the rounded shoulder to the base, spire conic.
Surface brilliant, enamelled over the sutures and throughout, pale olivaceous-buff, slightly bluish around the middle of body-whorl, the outer lip white.
Whorls about 5, nearly flat, the last convex above, rather flattened in the middle.
Aperture about four-fifths the length of shell, its upper half narrow, lower half about twice as wide ; pale buff" inside ; outer lip slightly retracted at the two ends, smooth within, thickened by a moderate white callus outside, which is not proM. VelieiX^^uced upward to the preceding suture.
Columella bearing four plaits, the lower three subequal, upper one slightly smaller and more deeply inserted.
Alt, 15, diam.
7*1 ; alt.
of aperture 12 mm.
Alt.
14'(3, diam.
7'5 ; alt.
of aperture 11*8 mm.
Boca Ciega Bay, Florida (Dr. J. W.
Velie!).
This species resembles M. Hindsi Petit in outline, Imt the callous rib of the outer lip is not continued upward as in that species.
It is notable for the rather slender and tapering form of the bodywhorl and slight inward bend of the outer lip.
It is somewhat remarkable that so large a Marginella as this has until now escaped notice on our Florida coast.
Siphonalia semiplicata n. sp.
Shell fusiform, tapering about an equal distance above and below, solid and strong, gray with some indistinct brownish patches.
Whorls about 8, nucleus smooth (partly lacking by erosion) ; 5* later whorls sculptured with cord-like spirals about equal to their intervals in width, about 11 in number on penultimate and three preceding whorls; last Ih whorls having short, sometimes indistinct, subvertical waves at the shoulder, the preceding whorls merely convex, with no vertical folds.
Last whorl contracted and produced at base as usual, the siphon nearly straight, a little recurved.
Aperture livid brown within, contained 1"8 times in length of shell ; outer lip regularly arched, multilirate within, the lirse extending to within about I2 mm.
of lip-edge; columella concave above, straight, vertical and more heavily calloused in the middle, slanting to the left below.
Alt.
47, diam.
24 mm.
Yokohama, Japan.
Allied to S. ficsoides, fiiscolineata, etc., but in this species the vertical waves of the shoulder are entirely absent on the spii e ; the canal is nearly straight.
In this connection it may be well to call attention to the fact, kindly communicated to me by Mr. J. Cosmo Melvill, that Siphonalia Stearnsii Pilsbry is identical with S. psexidohuccinum Melv.
and S. hyperodon Pils.
is the same as IS.
Mikado Melv.
Mr. Melvill's names were proposed in the Journal of Conchology (Leeds), V, p. 348, Ischnochiton aspidaulax n. sp.
Shell oblong, slightly narrower in front, moderately elevated, carinated, the side slopes nearly straight.
Surface somewhat shining, and (a) dark olive at the sides, a light olive band dappled with darker spots along the ridge, or (6) light dull bluish dappled with brown, and with some snow-white patches on valves ii, iii, v and vi ; yellowish at the apices of valves.
Median valves not beaked, the sutures concave.
Lateral areas well defined, but only a trifle raised, sculptured with numerous distinct, unequal radial grooves, not extending to the apex, and parted by unequal spaces, densely sculptured with oblique or Y-shaped scalelike granules, the apices of the V's directed toward the beaks.
Central areas very densely and minutely sculptured with longitudinal irregular wrinkles, somewhat converging, becoming finer toward the ridge, coarser in front of the diagonal line.
Posterior valve with the mucro slightly projecting, somewhat in front of the middle, posterior slope somewhat concave.
Interior bluish, with olive stains behind the valve-callus.
Sinus rather i\arrow, straight and smooth, angular at the sides.
Valve i with 10, valves ii to vii with 1-1, valve viii with 10 slits.
Teeth rather long, sharp and smooth.
Eaves narrow, deeply grooved above the teeth.
Girdle covered with compactly, irregularly imbricated glossy scales, very weakly striated, and measuring "8 to '25 mm.
in width ; each scale olive-blackish with a broad outer border of white.
In a general view, the girdle appears light olive with an ill-defined dusky bar opposite each valve.
Length 18, breadth 9 mm.
(exclusive of girdle).
Angle of divergence 119°.
Panamic region, exact locality not known.
Specimens of this elaborately sculptured Ischnochiton were received from Mr. W. J. Raymond some years ago.
Mr. E. R. Sykes, of London, has kindly compared it with the type of/, dispar Sowb., and informs me that it is quite distinct, confirming the opinion I had already formed from a study of the description and figures of that species.
From other West American species it is readily distinguished by the peculiar sculpture, dorsal keel and the coloration of the girdle scales.
Sagda (?)
Gabbi n. sp.
Shell depressed, with low, conoid-convex spire, round periphery and somewhat flattened, convex base, rather deeply indented around the minute umbilical perforation ; solid though rather thin ; whitish corneous or faintly buflf; the surface rather dull though shining, smooth except for irregular, very faint growth-marks.
Whorls about 5i, convex, slowly widening, the last decidedly wider, not descending in front.
Suture impressed and narrowly translucentmargined below.
Aperture subvertical, a little oblique, lunate ; peristome evenly curved, sharp-edged, the columellar margin lined with white callus inside, and reflexed in the vicinity of the umbilical perforation, nearly concealing it.
Alt.
7, greater diam.
11, lesser diam.
10 mm.
(Type).
Alt.
8, greater diam.
12, lesser diam.
10'8 mm.
(specimen in Ponsouby Coll.).
San Domingo (W. M. Gabb !).
Compared with Helix effusa Pfr.
(Monographia, V, p. 105, Tryon, Manual II, p. 163), of which part of the original lot collected by Smith are before me, this species is more solid, with smaller perforation, smoother surface and fewer, more rapidly widening whorls ; but it is especially distinguished by the different form of the peristome.
In effusa the basal lip (in a ventral view of the shell) is seen to bend forward in a broad convex lobe, the outer point of the curve extending as far forward as the insertion of the outer lip ; and upon^ the base the usual direction of the arcuate growth-lines is reversed.
In the new species, while there is a slight bend, no such effuse condition of the basal lip is developed.
This species is described from four specimens collected by Gabb (the types), and one in the collection of Mr. John Ponsonby, of London.
The latter is slightly larger, and, at first glance, seems to have the aperture more vertical, but this is caused by the breaking away of the upper portion of the lip-edge.
The columellar callus becomes a little heavier, slightly convex, toward the lower end of columella.
Upon breaking a specimen a minute embryonic shell was found.
The species is therefore probably viviparous, as I have shown some other species of Thysanophora and Sagda to be.
The callous lining of the interior in the columellar region is conspicuous in this species but absent in H. effusa Pfr.
Both species seem to me referable to Sagda rather than to Thysanophora; but the two genera are intimately allied.
THE BEES OF THE GENUS PEKDITA F. Smith.
BY T. D, A. COCKERELL.
Ill attempting to teach entomology to the students of the New Mexico Agricultural College, the difficulty was early felt, that there existed no work treating in an adequate manner of any group of insects obtainable in the vicinity.
While it was possible to indicate the outlines of the subject without any very profound knowledge of the insects which were collected and studied, it appeared to the writer that this superficial method of work could not lead to the best results.
It is quite true that an ordinary student has not time to master even the families of insects ; but the writer has long felt persuaded that the plan of teaching the elements without entering into detail is essentially a vicious one, calculated in extreme cases, even to convey a totally false impression of the true lessons of biology.
In the first place, the main purpose of biological study in education is not so much to load the mind with information, as to prompt a habit of observation and deduction.
Owing to the unfortunate trend of the present educational system, the students almost invariably come to the entomology class prepared to learn by heart any lessons that may be assigned to them, but very ill-prepared to notice what has not been actually pointed out.
It is, perhaps, not an exaggeration to say that the average junior or senior student in a college possesses less inclination and ability to notice and compare than a child of from five to ten years of age.
The entomological studies, if successful, should tend to break down this acquired mental habit, and restore in some measure the inquisitiveness of childhood.
Therefore, nothing can be worse than limiting the student's knowledge by what may be written in a textbook, and checking his budding interest in every direction by " I don't know," with the implication that it is no use trying to find out.
The idea that some facts are to be regarded by the student, and all others ignored, is an entire perversion of the proper spirit of biological inquiry.
Another consideration is, that after all the cell, the individual and the species are the three natural units in biology, without a just conception of which, all reasoning must be futile.
The orders, families, genera and other higher groups do not stand at all on the same plane, being essentially artificial arrangements for convenience in classification.
Consequently a student who might be thoroughly acquainted with the higher groups and ignorant of species, would be very little prepared to form just conceptions of the phenomena of life.
When these ideas dawned upon the writer, he was somewhat disconcerted to reflect that in the whole range of zoology he possessed an intimate acquaintance with only two series, the slugs in Mollusca and the Coccidse in Insecta.
Of the former, which might have been used in zoological studies, there is but one species in New Mexico, and that not found in the neighborhood of the college ; of the latter, the species are more numerous, but very unsuited for the purpose required, since they are exceptions to almost every ordinary entomological rule.
It is perfectly true, that there already exist many very admirable monographs of North American insects of diflfereut groups ; but there are two reasons why even the best of these do not entirely serve our purpose.
The first is, that comparatively little collecting has been done in southern New Mexico, so that many of our very common species are even unknown to science, and, therefore, not to be found in the monographs ; the second, that very few of the published writings contain anything like a careful account of the habits of the species.
One of the very first lessons that the student has to learn is that structure is as intimately related to environment, as lock to key, and a work which practically ignores one side of this question cannot be entirely satisfactory.
The nearest approximation to what is wanted is found among the higher lepidoptera, which are illustrated by such admirable works as those of Scudder and AV.
H. Edwards.
Yet these insects are not very easily studied by a beginner, except in a superficial way, nor is their classification yet upon a perfectly sound basis.
So finally, it was concluded to take up the bees and endeavor to work them up in such a manner that they might be used as desired.
They are good typical insects, their principal structural characters are easily observed, their habits are most interesting, and they abound in New Mexico.
Moreover, the bee-studies go very nicely hand-in-hand with flower-studies undertaken in botany, the relations between bees and flowers being among the most fascinating phenomena in natural history.
The present essay on Perdita is the first step toward the realization of the above mentioned ideal.
Imperfect as it undoubtedly is, it has grown like a mushroom under the hands of the writer ; so that the probability of finishing the whole series of bee-genera seems remote indeed, if each is to increase in a similar fiish ion.
Seventeen North American species of Perdita were known before the writer began to study them ; of these, two are not considered valid, but 55 have been added, bringing the list up to seventy !
Thus, in number of species described, Perdita becomes at a bound the largest of North American bee genera.
MATERIAL EXAMINED.
By far the greater part of the material studied has been collected by the writer in New Mexico.
With great kindness, Mr. AY.
J.
Fox loaned a series of specimens containing his Lower Californian types, and all the species of Cresson except cephalotes, as well as several herein described as new.
In various other ways, such as comparing types, Mr. Fox has throughout the whole investigation given invaluable assistance.
Mr. C. F. Baker was so good as to send me the specimens he and his wife had collected in Colorado, which included some new forms.
Mr. C. Robertson has given some very valuable information regarding the habits of the two eastern species.
Some interesting species have been found by students of the college.
Miss Mae Gilmore, Miss J. E. Casad, Mr. Alfred Holt and Mr. C. Rhodes, as duly indicated below.
My botanical colleague, Professor Wooton, found one new species.
The writer has seen all the species treated of, except cephalotes, halictulus and bicolor.
Of the 70 species, 26 are known in both sexes, 26 only in the ^ , 18 only iu the 9 .
23 are at present only known from uniques.
The flower-visiting habits of 50 species are known.
The nesting habits are as yet unknown.
CHARACTERS USED.
It is hoped that those who may have occasion hereafter to describe species of Perdita will read this section, as a study of the published descriptions shows that some important characters are almost always omitted.
The coloration of the head and thorax is black, green or blue ; frequently the parts are not colored alike, the metathorax especiallybeing usually bluer than the mesothorax and scutellum.
The metallic color does not extend on to the abdomen, except to a slight extent in intermpta.
The sculpture of the metallic portions differs, and a good character is found in the smoothness or otherwise of the mesothorax ; in some it is very smooth and shining, in others granular or striatulate and comparatively dull.
The dulness or otherwise of the front, and the puuctation of the area close to the ocelli^ may also be used.
The pale markings may be absent ; when developed they are from pure white to deep yellow, never red, though the yellow of many males may be reddened by cyanide.
The reddest color observed is in the bright orange-rufous of the latter end of the abdomen in crotonis, and the orange-rufous legs of foxi.
The abdomen, as in latior, may be bright ferruginous.
These colors are entirely different from the scarlet induced by cyanide.
In some species which live on yellow flowers {hdeola, heata, larrece) the whole body -color is deep yellow, the dark markings being reduced to a mininmm.
No species is known similarly white, nor is any species all rufous like some forms of Noinada.
The head may be comparatively small, round, or broader than long or longer than broad ; in some species it is very large and subquadrate.
The males may or may not have a conspicuous tooth or spire on the cheeks beneath ; this character appears to be a valid specific one, but appears in species which are not closely allied, (e. g., larrece and pulchrioj-'), while it distinguishes certain forms from their closest allies, as pulchrior from pallidior, the latter having unarmed cheeks.
It is to be observed that in the Mutillid genua Sphcerophthahna a similar state of affairs occurs, only it is the females that possess the armed cheeks.
Thus *S. montivaga is extremely like S. megaeantha, but lacks the spine on the cheeks.
S^towneyi also differs from its allies by its spinose head.
The character is, therefore, one of those which has been termed " kaleidoscopic."
The mandibles may be bifid at the tip (latior, texana), or may be notched within (sphceralcece 9 ) or even present a distinct tooth on the inner side (oRneifrons).
They are, however, usually simple, and more slender in the males.
In the females of the albipennis group they are very stout and strongly elbowed, quite different from the males.
There is also a marked sexual difference in the mandibles of venfralis.
The tongue differs in length and in the degree of development of the hairs.
As will be seen below, the tongue has on two or three occasions proved useful in distinguishing allied forms (as affinis and senecionis), but it has not been studied throughout the series.
In one instance, a useful distinction was found in the relative lengths of the joints of the maxillary palpi.
The form of the clypeus differs very much both between the species and the sexes of the same species (e. g., ventralis).
For convenience I have compared the shapes noted to the outlines of different kinds of hats.
The degrees of hairiness of the face and cheeks, as also of the thorax (especially of the mesothorax) offer useful characters.
The hairs are usually white, but may in part be grayish or brownish, or even, in a yellow species (beata), yellow.
They are very rarely (cdbovittata) dense enough on the face to obscure the markings.
The antennae present different grades of color (usually paler beneath) from yellow and orange to black.
In the albipennis group the color of the flagellum has served to distinguish the males of allied forms.
The face markings at first seem complicated and hard to describe, but are easily reduced to a simple system.
The face may be wholly dark, but if the pale marks are much reduced they are generally seen to linger last upon the clypeus.
An exception to this is found however in semiccerulea, with its shining yellow mark on each side of a perfectly dark clypeus.
The clypeus may be wholly light, usually retaining a black dot on each side near the margin.
The clypeal dark markings appear frequently in the form of two longitudinal black bars, as in numerata.
The lateral light markings of the face are commonly triangular, the inner angle being about opposite the dot on the clypeus, and the upper angle usually on a level with the antennal socket on the orbital margin.
Soaietimes the lateral mark extends up along the margin of the orbit much further ; and it may terminate variously, being either pointed or truncate.
The shapes of the lateral face marks afford excellent specific characters.
Above the clypeus, between its upper border and the level of the anteunse, is the siipradypeal mark, which differs very much in its degree of development, and even in its shape in some allied species.
It may be produced upward in the median line to an enlarged yellow mark ou the front, the frontal mark, but this is not very common.
Finally, just below each antenna may be a small subtriangular mark, which I have called the dog-ear mark, because of its resemblance to the ear of a hound, first observed In the $ form described as canina.
In the males the face is frequently all yellow or white up to the level of the antennce; and then good characters are found in the degree of its further upward extension, and in the form of its upper limit.
The face markings are nearly always conspicuously different in the sexes, but not so in alhovittata and the albipermis group, nor in luteola, nor the texana group.
The pale markings of the thorax are confined to different degrees of yellow on the prothorax, often affording good characters, and occasional very characteristic yellow patches on the pleura, except in mexicanorum, which has a yellow postscutellum, and luteiceps, which has a little yellow on mesothorax and scutellum.
Two species, punctoslgnata and cephalotes, have the thorax yellow with black markings ; marcialis has it yellow with green markings, the mesothorax being green with yellow lateral margins.
The wings may be simply hyaline or milky-hyaline, or slightly smoky; never really dark and never spotted or banded.
The nervures and stigma may be dark brown, light brown, yellowish or colorless ; the stigma is usually hyaline centrally.
In the texana group the stigma is hardly developed.
Very good characters are 'found in the venation.
The marginal cell differs greatly in size and length, but I never saw one so long as to suggest the condition of Calliopsis.
It may be obliquely or squarely truncate.
It may have the portion below the stigma (substigmatal) longer than that beyond ( poststigmataV), but usually they are about equal or the latter is longer.
There are but two submarginal cells ; and the shape of the second, whether triangular or how much narrowed to the marginal, should in each case be noted.
The so-called second submarginal is morphologically the third, the true second of genera with three submarginals being absent.
On one side of the type 9 of obscui-ata, the true second submarginal actually appears, small, triangular and petiolate, much as in the Larrid genus Plenoculus.
The third discoidal cell may be very weak or even entirely wanting, according to the development of the second recurrent nervure.
The legs may be dark or yellow, or variously marked with these colors, and the proportions of dark and light, though variable, afford good characters within reasonable limits.
The anterior tibise are usually yellow in front at least.
The abdomen differs somewhat in shape, and may be either wholly dark or variously banded or spotted.
In every case it should be carefully described, and the color of the ventral surface should also be mentioned.
The $ genitalia differ in one or two species I have examined, but I have not studied them sufficiently to be able to introduce them into the classification.
In addition to the above structural and colorational characters, too much stress cannot be laid on the importance of noting the exact localities and the flowers visited.
Without the assistance derived from such information, it would have been impossible to unravel the mentzelke series, or satisfactorily arrange the forms allied to affirds.
Further, facts of this kind are invaluable in the difficult task of correctly associating the sexes.
The time of flight should also be carefully noted.
Some species are vernal, others (the great majority) fly in late summer and autumn.
GEOGRAPHICAL AND VERTICAL DISTRIBUTION.
The species of Perdita are characteristic of the arid region of North America.
Of the 70 species, 49 are found in New Mexico, and of these, no less than 34 are in the Mesilla Valley, in the Middle Sonoran (= lower part of Upper Sonoran) zone, at 3,800 feet.
Ascending the Valley of the Rio Grande, four species were taken at San Marcial, one at Socorro and nine at Albuquerque, but at none of these places was more than a few day's collecting done.
One species was found at San Augustine, on the east side of the Organ Mountains, but has since been observed in the Mesilla Valley.
There can be no doubt that Perdita abounds throughout the Upper Sonoran zone in New Mexico.
At Santa Fe, 7,000 feet, in the transition zone of New Mexico, a good deal of collecting was done in two seasons, but the species of Perdita do not appear to be so numerous as in the Upper Sonoran.
Only seven species were taken, although one or two were very numerous in individuals.
In the mid-alpine zone no species were seen, either in New Mexico or in the three years residence in Colorado.
In Colorado, species of Perdita have been found at La Junta, Fort Collins, Estes Park and Glenwood Springs.
On August 12, 1887, I found a species at Cottonwood Creek, Pleasant Valley, Fremont County, Colorado ; it was sent to Mr. Ashmead, but the species WAS not determined.
In my note-book I recorded that it was 3^ mm.
long, head black, thorax gray, abdomen red-brown; surely it was a new species, different from any herein described.
A few species of Perdita have been found in other parts of the west — three in Lower California, three in California, three in Nevada.
Two are known from Texas, one from the State of Chihuahua, Mexico.
Two vaguely from Mexico.
In the Eastern States, Perdita is represented by only two species, odomaculata of the northern region, from Illinois to New Hampshire ; and obseurata in the south, Georgia and Florida.
One of the Rocky Mountain species, alhipennis, extends northeastward to South Dakota.
As regards vertical distribution, one species, spJueralcece, extends from the Mesilla Valley to Santa Fe, but the Santa Fe form is an easily distinguishable race.
P. lepachidis extends unaltered from Socorro to Santa Fe ; and zebrata and chamcesarachcB extend from Albuquerque to Santa Fe.
P. austini and bigelovice extend from the Mesilla Valley to Albuquerque.
THE FLOWERS VISITED.
It may be laid down as a general rule that each species of Perdita visits normally but one species of flower, but occasional specimens may be found on flowers to which they do not normally belong.
The exceptions to this rule are found in P. odomaculata visiting Solidago, Coreoj^sis and Aster ; P. cladothricis visiting various Compositee as well as Cladothrix ; P. pedidis visiting Pedis, Tribulus and Wedelia; P. fallax visiting Bigelovia, Verbesina and Pedis; P. phyiiiatce visiting Bigelovia and Gutierrezia ; and P. seviicrocea visiting Solidago, Bigelovia and Gutierrezia.
In the case of several uniques, it is not certain that they normally belong to the flowers on which they were found.
Thus a single P. pnlchrior was found on Bigelovia at Las Cruces, and it would have gone in as a Bigelovia species but for its previous discovery on 3feiitzelia at Albuquerque.
In the Mesilla Valley, toward and at the base of the Organ Mountains, are many species of flowers which should by all analogy have their species of Perdita.
But theopportuiiity has not offered to make excursions to determine this at the right season, and we can only surmise that some of the uniques taken on Verbesina, Bigelovia, etc., will be hereafter found abundantly attached to some other plant in the neighborhood.
The flowers visited are cited in their systematic order, following the arrangement of Eugler and Prantl, as recently adopted in the A.
A.
A. S. list.
The number of known Perdita flowers is 25, of which 13, more than half, are Compositie.
Twelve species of flowers have furnished more than one Perdita species, the greatest number (12) being from Bigelovia ivrightii.
It is to be explained in reference to the names used for the flowers, that the writer is in favor of using the earliest generic name in every case, when not jireoccupied by a valid homonym ; and also the earliest specific name when not preoccupied by a valid homonym in the same genus.
But he is entirely opposed to the practice of ■displacing names because antedated by synonyms, which are not and never were deserving of recognition ; and he does not consider a varietal name invalid because previously used for a different species, or a variety of a different species, in the same genus.
He thus objects to the substitution of Chondrophora for Bigelovia (or Bigelowia), or of Covillea for Larrea.
Likewise of ya.r.
jnlosus for var.
villosus of Aster ericoides* SALICACE^.
(1).
Salix.
The willow-frequenting bees at Las Cruces in May are Perdita salicis, P. nnmerata, Andrena salicinella Ckll., Andrena n.
sp., Halictus sp., and Prosopis sp.
P. salicis abounds, but of numerata only one was taken.
AMARANTHACEJE.
(2).
Cladothrix cryptantha S.Watson.
P. cladothricis abounds on this ; it was rather surprising to find so simple a flower so abundantly visited by a particular species of bee.
The genus Cladothrix has cited in the Index Kewensis only two species, both from Western North America.
NYCTAGINAOE^.
(3).
Wedelia iNCARNATA (L.) Kuntze.
Visited by P. pectidis.
The Boerhaavia, common at Las Cruces, is not visited by Perdita; while the large purple mirabilis is, of course, a moth flower, and is visited by Deilephila lineata.
CAPPARIDACEiE.
(4).
Cleome serrulata Piirsh, This is not found growing wild at Las Cruces, but it abounds from Albuquerque to Santa Fe and northward into Colorado, being visited in great numbers by Perdita zebrata.
There is a not uncommon white-flowered form ( C. albiflora) which I observed at WatrouB, N. M., and other places.
While P. zebrata is the only Perdita of the Cleome, it has to compete with numerous bees of other genera.
At Santa Fe, on August 2d, I noted that Nomia punctata was in full force on ihe^Cleome, its hind legs loaded with the green pollen.
Other Cleome bees at Santa Fe are Melecta miranda, Anthophora, Megachile, Melissodes and Bombus.
At Albuquerque a Calliopsis is common on the Cleome ; and I saw at this locality on August 16th, a humming-bird visiting it.
LEGUMINOSJE.
(5).
Prosopis juliflora var.
glandulosa (Torrey).
The mesquite furnishes Perdita exclamans and P. punctosignata.
Mr. Alfred Holt has also taken an Anthidium on mesquite at Las Cruces, It will be noted that the generic name of this plant is the same as that of a genus of bees.
This inconvenience might be avoided by spelling the bee-genus Pi'osapis, as has already been done by Mr. Ashmead (Hym.
Colo., p. 31).
The botanical genus has priority.
The mesquite extends in modified form to sea-level in the neotropical region ; it is, in fact, essentially a neotropical type.
ZYGOPHYLLACEJE.
(6).
Tribulus maximus L. Visited by P. pectidis.
The plant cannot be other than maximus, but it does not agree in detail with published descriptions.
I have found the plant (though not the bee) as far north as La Junta, Colorado.
(7).
Larrea DivARiCATA var.
TRiDENTATA (DC).
At San Marcial were found on this P. marcialis, P. larrece, P. larrearum and P. semicmndea.
The P. larrece is colored yellow like the flowers of the plant.
The genus Larrea consists of four or five species, confined to the Mexican region and the Argentine Republic.
Our species is a variety of one of the Argentine ones.
EUPHORBIACE^.
(8).
Croton texensis (Klotzch) Muell.
Arg.
At Albuquerque I found numbers of P. crotonis on this.
The same plant is common at Saata Fe, but yields no Perdita.
The constancy of Perdita spp.
to their proper flowers was well illustrated at Albuquerque, where on the Cruton was only P.crotonis, while on the Cleome only 8 paces distant was only P. zebrata.
At Las Cruces, Croton neomexicanus is common, but I found on it no Perdita, or even bees, only Larridse and especially Philanthidce, including Aphilanthops taurulus.
This was on September 25th, and only staminate flowers were to be found.
Croton is a very large genus, with many neotropical species, but also found in the tropics of the Old World.
MALVACEiE.
(9).
Sph^ralcea angustifolia Spach.
Abundant and variable from Las Cruces to Santa Fe, in the former locality furnishing P. latior and P. sphceraleece ; in the latter a distinct race of sphceralcecB.
At Santa Fe the Sphceralcea is visited also by Epeohis, Bombxis, Colletes, Melissodes, etc.
At Las Cruces it is principally visited by Dladasia.
LOASACE^.
(10).
Mentzelia nuda (Pursh) Torr.
and Gray.
Visited at Santa Yi by P. mentzelke, and at Albuquerque by P. paUidior and pulchrior.
It is a favorite i?ow6its flower.
The genus goes south to Chili.
UMBELLIPERiE.
(11).
Hydrocotyle umbellata L. Mr. Robertson reports P. obscuraiaiYom this.
I have never myself found any Perdita on an Umbellifer.
SOLANACE^.
(12).
Cham^saracha coronopus (Dunal) A.
Gray.
P. cIuwkbsarachce abounds on this at Albuquerque, and was also taken on it at Santa Fe.
The genus is a small one, the Index Kewensis cites 1 Texas, Mexico, 2 California (here includiug our coronopus), 1 Mexico, and 1 Japan.
Thus it is not apparently of neotropical origin.
COMPOSITE.
(13).
GuTiERREZiA SAROTHK.E (Pursh) Britt.
and Rusby.
At Albuquerque were found on this, one each of P. austini, gutierrezice and pallidior — the last doubtless accidental.
(14).
GuTiERREZiA SAROTHR.E var.
MiCROCEPHALA (Gray) Coulter.
This is common at Las Cruces, and has furnished P. austini, semicrocea, luteola, phymatce, tarda and cladothrieis.
On September 25th, a single 9 verbesince was also taken on 36 [1896 it, but this was undoubtedly accidental, as verbesinoe was extremely numerous on Verbesina close by, and if it had anything to gain by visiting Gutierrezia, it would be seen there more than once.
The genus Gutierrezia goes south to the Magellan Strait region.
It is moderately numerous in species in the Mexican (Sonoran) region and arid region of the U. S., and again in in the southern part of the neotropical region, as far north as Chili.
(15).
SoLiDAGO CANADENSIS L. Fig 1.
This common Goldcn-rod has a wide range over the continent, and extends from Las Cruces to Santa Fe, being usually seen on or about the acequia banks.
Mr. Robertson records it as one of the plants visited by P. octomaculata in Illinois ; in Colorado Mr. Baker has taken from it bakerce, affinis, sexmaculata var.
and rectangulata.
At Las Cruces it furnished fair numbers of semierocea, and a single grandiceps.
It is worthy of note that it is not at all visited by luteola, or indeed any of the Bigelovia species except semicrocea.
(16).
Bigelovia WRiGHTii Gray.
Fig.
2.
This is the very abundant Bigelovia of comparatively dry sandy ground between the river bottoms and the benches at Las Cruces and Albuquerque, N. M. Hitherto it had been confounded by us with B. rusbyi, owing to a specimen, apparently quite identical with our plant, having been so named at the California Academy of Sciences.
As I was somewhat uneasy about this determination, Professor Wooton at my request sent a specimen to Columbia College, and word comes back that it is assuredly ivrighiii and not rusbyi.
This explanation is needed, because I have sent out various insects labelled as from B. rusbyi.
Besides being most prolific in Perdiia species, this plant is wonderfully attractive to many kinds of insects.
At Albuquerque I got from it P. bigelovice, and among other things the ant, Tapinoma anale Andre, and quantiFiG.
2. ties of a pretty Chalcidid, Orasema viridis Ashraead (Det.
Dep.
Agric).
The latter is new to the U. S. Fauna, having been only lately described from a specimen found at Tepic, Mexico (Proc.
Cal.
Ac.
Sci., 1895, p. 553).
At Las Cruces I found on B. lorightii plenty of P. luteola especially, accompanied by semicrocea, oeneijrons, phymatce, fallax, higelovi(je, nilidella, austini, while cladothrieis, pulchrior, macidipes and pellucida were occasional.
Here the flowers are peopled by the same species of ant, Tapinovia anale Andre (det.
Ernest Andre) as was found on them at Albuquerque ; its color is such as to render it inconspicuous.
Three species of beetles are particularly noticed on the flowers, Chauliognathus Scutellaria Lee, Crossidius pulchelhis Lee, and Clems abruptus Lee.
(det.
Wickham), of which the first two are yellow like the flowers, with some black ; and the last (appearing in October) is beautifully marked with red, resembling at a glance Sphcerophthalma heterochroa, which is found in the same vicinity, though never on flowers.
Sundry Coccinellidje, Chrysomelidse and Bruchidre also frequent the flowers.
Some Heteropterous insects found on the flowers are colored yellow to escape observation ; one of these, Phymata fasciata, is predaceous, and a serious enemy of the bees.
So there are also yellow or yellowish Thoniisidse, and certain Bombyliidie and Trypetidse among the Diptera which visit the Bigelovia flowers are more or less strongly yellow — more especially the beautiful little Phthiria sulphurea Loew (see Psyche, January, 1895, p, 188).
Among Hymenoptera, besides various bees, are found several Philanthidpe, Scoliidse, Eumenidpe, Chalcididse, Chrysidida^, etc., some of the species being new or rare in collections, for example, Aphilanthops taurulus Ckll., A. quadrinotahis Ashm.
(heretofore only known from a specimen found at Denver, Colo.), Acanthochalcis nigricans Cam., and Chrysis mesillce Ckll.
The genus Bigelovia belongs especially to the arid region, but there are two species in Ecuador.
(17).
Chrysopsis villosa (Pursh) Nutt.
This is properly a mountain plant (abundant, for example, in the mid-alpine of Colorado), but several vigorous plants are growing in a dry watercourse near the N. M. Agricultural College, the seeds having doubtless been washed from the Organ Mountains.
On one of these I caught the unique of P. vespertilio.
At Santa Fe I watched some Chrysopsis villosa, but only got one specimen of an Antlwphora.
(18).
Aster ericoides var.
villosus (Michx.)
Torn and Gray.
Mr. Robertson reports this as visited by P. octomaculata.
38 [1896.
(19).
Aster CANEscENs var.
viscosus (Nutt.)
Gray.
Fig.
3.
At Las Cruces this is freely visited by P. asteris.
Two species of Aster which are common at Las Cruces, A. spinosus and A. hesperkis, have produced no Perdita.
The former is a weed of waste grounds, the latter occurs on the acequia banks, so they may not be natives of the immediate region.
It has occurred to me that by watching the bees on a flower, some evidence might be obtained as to the length of time the flower has grown in the locality.
Thus, to take an extreme class of cases, garden exotics are visited by comparatively few bees, and of course have none peculiar to them, as P. asteris to Asler caneseens var.
(21).
(22).
(20).
Lepachys tagetes ( James)Gray.
Visited by P. lepachidis ; also, at Santa Fe, by Melissodes, Agaj)ostemo7i, Halictus and Bemhex.
-/ffScfe Helianthus annuus L. Fig.
4.
The sunflower is the flower of P. albipennis ; very rarely a verbesince may also be found upon it.
Other sunflower bees ixrePanurgiis,3Ielissodes and Andrena, all at Las Cruces.
Phymata fasciata also occurs on the sunflower heads.
It is to be noted that the Andrena found on sunflowers at Las Cruces is not the same as Mr. Robertson's Illinois A. heliantld.
Verbesina encelioides (Cav.)
Gray.
Fig.
5.
At Las Cruces this produces commonly P. verbesinoi, rarely beata, perpulchra Fig.
4. and albovittata, and occasionally or accidentally albipennis, var.
vagans, latieeps and fallax.
In October I noticed Apis mellifica visiting the flowers in numbers ; the honey-bee flies longer and visits more species of flowers than any wild bee I know, and m^ust surely prove rather a serious competitor of the wild species.
The competition would be most severely felt, of course, in those years when, owing to unfavorable weather, the flowers were less numerous than ordinary.
The yellow bug Phymata fasciata Gray, abounds on the Verbesina ; on September 28th, I found one which had caught a P. verbesince.
This Phymata not only preys on bees, but the butterfly, Lycama exilis, the house fly, Musca domestica, and doubtless many other insects.
Another enemy of bees which is found on Verbesina is a Thomisid spider ; on September 22d, I found one of these had caught a P. verbesinw.
There are various other Verbesma bees, including the pretty Agapostemon melliventris, which also appears in the spring, then visiting Sisymbrium and Streptanthus.
(23).
BiDENs ARisTOSA (Michx) Britt., (= Coreopsis ARiSTOSA Michx).
Mr. Robertson cites this as visited by P. octomaculata.
39 tlG.
5.
(24).
Senecio douglasii DC.
On this Professor Wooton found P. senecionis, as also an Anclrena and other bees.
(25).
Pectis papposa Gray.
This is visited by P. pedidis, but cladothricis, fallax and biparticepshave also been taken on it, while once only a luteola was seen in the net after sweeping Pectis.
The flowers are frequented by an ant, Dorymyrmex pyramicus Rog.
(det.
Andre).
One also finds upon them Panurgus (commonly) and Epeolus (rarely), as well as sundry Philanthidpe and Bombyliidae, etc.
The genus Pectis has many neotropical species, extending even south to the Argentine Republic.
It has also AVest Indian representatives in Cuba, San Domingo and Cura9oa.
In reviewing the above list of plants, it will be readily seen that Perdita does not usually frequent the boreal types of flowers, but rather those which extend northward from the neotropical region.
This, taken with the known distribution of the genus, strongly suggests that in the main we have to do with an austral series of types, which have spread northward and become largely differentiated into species since the glacial epoch.
P. octomaculata, however, must be looked upon as a survival from preglacial times ; and here it is especially significant that affinis and senecionis, which more especially represent octomaculata in the west, are the very ones which visit boreal flowers, Solidago and Seneeio to wit.
Further, bakerm which does indeed visit Solidago also, shows every indication of being a recent derivative from the Cleome type zebrata ; an instance, in fact, of the neotropical immigrants adapting themselves through modification to subboreal conditions.
Another thing that deserves notice is the relationship between the size of the bees, the length of their tongues, and the kinds of flowers.
It would appear that a longer tongue is not always developed independently to meet requirements, but that the total size of the bee may be increased, and with it the tongue.
Or conversely, the size of the bee may be reduced.
Speculations of this kind are, perhaps, not very profitable, but it will be advantageous to give the facts which suggest them.
Close to the N. M. Agricultural College Verhesina encelioides und Bigelovia ivrigJitii grow in the utmost profusion.
In September collections were made off both, the plants being but a few yards from one another, with the following results: — Verbesina : — Perdita, Calliopsis, Pamir'gus, Melissodes, CcelioxySy Andrena, Epeolus ; but on October 5th when the Bigelovia was getting over, Halidus ligatus, H. pedoraloides and Agapostemon inelliventris.
Bigelovia: — Perdita, Agapostemon, Anthophora (small species), Megachile (one), Colletes, Halidus $ , Halictus stultus 9 , Prosopis^ Nomia nevadensis.
Thus it will be seen that the bees of these two plants were almost entirely of different genera in September, those on the Verbesina being Apidte with few exceptions, those on the Bigelovia largely AndrenidjB.
But as the Bigelovia began to be over, the large Andrenidre visited the Verbesina, which had given a second crop of flowers.
Now although Perdita appears equally in both lists, the species are different, and if we except unique specimens, as we justly may, those on the Verbesina are of larger size, those on the Bigelovia comparatively small.
The abundant larger verbesince is never seen on Bigelovia, nor the not less abundant smaller luteola on Verbesina.
And when we come to look at the Perdita spp.
of the Gutierreziay they average still smaller than those of the Bigelovia.
I am fortunate in being able to present some figures of the flowers of some of the Perdita Compositfe, drawn by Miss Mae Gilmore under the supervision of Professor E. O. Wooton.
As they are all on the same scale, (diam.
x 5) the reader will be able to form his own conclusions by studying them in connection with the facts above cited. "
The honey ... in Compositse is secreted by a ring surrounding the style at the base of a narrow tubular corolla, and as it accumulates it rises up into the wider part of the corolla where it is accessible to the most short-lipped insects, and where the anthers shelter it from rain."
— (Hermann Miiller).
In the Blgelovia, Aster and Solidago the tube is seen to be narrow, permitting the rapid rise of the nectar, and probably preventing the insertion of the tongue of large bees.
Hence, these flowers are visited only by the smaller species of Perdita, with other small Apidse and Andrenidse.
In Verbesina and Helianthns the tube is wider, doubtless permitting the larger bees to readily insert their tongues ; but it it is narrower at the neck than Blgelovia or Solidago, preventing small insects from so readily thrusting their heads inward to stretch for the nectar.
The wider tube also may prevent the nectar from rising so far, while in Helianthus there is a large bulb to contain it.
Solidago canadensis is commonly cultivated in gardens in Europe and there H. Miiller mentions only flies as visiting it (Fertilization of Flowers, p. 321), though he gives a further reference to a paper which 1 have not seen.
With us, as has been shown, it is native and visited by several bees.
THE NATURE OP SPECIFIC DIFFERENCES.
It is a commonplace observation that specific characters are of all kinds, and may be either strongly marked or diflScult to discern.
A very small amount of study teaches us that there is no essential difference between those characters called specific and those called' varietal ; in fact, the very same kind of difference which marks species in one group, may only mark varieties or mutations in another.
Thus we come to see that the essential distinctions between species are physiological, the morphological ones being only valid for diagnostic purposes just s© far as they happen te* coincide with the physiological.
There are even what I have termed " physiological species," i. e.^ species separated only by habit ; not at all, so far as we can judge,.
by structure, or if at all, in only a very slight degree.
I have elsewhere cited examples of this kind in Coccidge, but in Hymeoopterai we find many instances in which the tangible characters are reducedl to a minimum.
Thus, Schmiedeknecht cites the case of Bomhus: silvarxnn var.
$ nigrescens Perez, a submelanic mountain form^ which is only to be separated from B. pratorum by an examination of the genitalia.
Among the European Sphecodes also, a study o£ 4 microscopical characters has led to a remarkable increase in the number of recognized species.
Only the other day, I received a new part of Marshall's Monograph of British Braconida?, in which the following paragraph is sufficiently significant : — " Nearly a dozen species [of Asj)ilota] have been indicated or described ; tiieir inconstant characters render precise definition extremely difficult, and tabulation almost impossible.
.
.
.
Accident has brought to light some facts relative to one species, nervosa Hal., from which it appears that the varieties mentioned by that author [Haliday] belong almost certainly to several distinct species.
The fascicornis Hal., requires to be elucidated in a similar way, for the capture and examination of isolated examples of unknown origin, lead to very uncertain results."
(Tr.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond., 1895, p. 375).
Now in Perdita precisely the same state of afiairs occurs, and it will thus be found that while certain species (e. g., crotonis, luteola) are very easily recognized, some others (e. g., bakerce, verbesmce) are almost as well to be called races or varieties as species.
In the opinion of the writer, we have indeed the process of evolution going on under our eyes, the puzzling forms being those which have only lately segregated themselves, and have not yet developed striking peculiarities.
Take for example bakerce, the closest ally of the Cleome species zebrata.
It does not appear to diflTer more from zebrata than the mutations of the latter do from one another, and in the female is practically identical with it so far as outward signs go.
But the S bakerce has a slight but constant difference in its wider supraclypeal mark, and it also differs in its genitalia.
These differences would never have been noticed, in all probability, had not bakerce been observed to differ in its habits from zebrata, to frequent not the Cleome, but Golden-rod.
In fact, the similarity is so great that Mr. Fox, after seeing specimens, expressed the opinion that bakerce was a synonym of zebrata.
Another case, not less perplexing, is found in the albipennis-verbesince-lepachiclis series.
The males of this series, placed in a row, readily separate into those which have narrow yellow bands on the abdomen and those which have not.
Those with the bands separate into a series with the flagellum orange, and one with it blackish, and it is seen that the former are from Verbesina, the latter from Helianthus.
Now the females of this series (that of lepachidis being unknown) separate at once into those with broad distinct yellow abdominal bands, and those with the abdomen only spotted.
The former are from HeManthus (rarely from Verhesina), the latter very abundant on Verhesina.
But now we find, to our surprise, that some of the males with yellow on the abdomen belong to the spotted females, and come from Verhesina ; while others (with the dark flagellum) belong to the well banded Helianthus females.
Further than this, other males without the yellow belong to other well banded Helianthus females from a different locality.
Thus among the Helianthus forms (alhipennis) the females from two localities (La Junta and Las Cruces) are hardly at all different, while their males are decidedly different ; and the male of the Las Cruces form more resembles the $ of verhesince, which is common on Verhesina in the same locality.
But the Las Cruces males differ from verhesince in the color of the flagellum ; while the La Junta males, differing from verhesince in the abdomen, resemble it in the antennae !
The difficulty is still further increased by the occurrence of individual varieties presenting other combinations of the "specific" characters.
In such a case as this we should be hopelessly adrift without biological observations.
There is no apparent reason why the variations in clypeal markings should not be just as " specific" as those in the color of the flagellum, or (as in lepachidis) in the color of the head and thorax.
Mr. Fox, after examining a series, concludes that we do not know the $ of alhipennis, and that my alhipennis $ , verhesina' and lejmchidis are all varieties of hyalina.
But all this is contradicted by actual observation of the insects on the flowers.
The characters which I have used occur uniformly in series from the same flowers, except in the case of widely separated localities, where they are still uniform for a given flower in a given locality.
There will be very rarely an individual proper to one flower found on another, as one or two helianthi on Verhesina, but such exceptions do not vitiate the general rule.
Some characters, as the difference in clypeal markings, belong especially to no one of these series, and hence have no specific value.
If, as believed, evolution is in progress among the species of Perdita, we are naturally led to seek for evidence of natural selection.
In some cases, as of the yellow lideola, heata and marcialis, all on yellow flowers, we note at once the utility of the peculiarity ; and when we see the yellow predaceous bug Phymata also on the flowers, the whole matter seems clear.
Yet it must be confessed that on Verbesina the yellow beata is extremely rare, while the dark verbesince abounds.
The face-markings, so distinctive of species, differ greatly as a rule in the sexes, and in most species are very constant.
There is every probability that they serve as recognition marks ; and it is here significant that when they are very variable, as in 9 zebrata, there is no other species of Perdita on the same flowers that could be confused with the varying one.
The species appear to be all single brooded, but the great resemblance between the vernal numerata and the late summer bigelovice, suggested the possibility of double-brooded seasonally dimojphic species.
The strongest fact, however, that militates against this idea is that there are so many more late summer and autumn species than vernal ones, while the eastern odomaculata is represented by no congener at all in the spring.
Another question arose as to the possibility of dimorphism in the males of some species ; references to this matter, which deserves further study, will be found under the species concerned.
It will be observed that the grouping of the species is arbitary, those being associated which the student is likely to meet with on the same flowers, or in the same part of the country.
This was done because it was felt that no natural arrangement could yet be arrived at, and a purely artificial one, based solely on considerations of convenience, was better than one which might give a false idea of relationships.
The difficulty arises in many cases from the so-called " kaleidoscopic " characters, the possession of which by two species does not necessarily imply descent from an ancestor exhibiting them.
Thus hiteola and beata are colored alike in almost every detail (except the black on the pleura of beata), and are extremely diflferent from any other Perdita.
But beata in its size and hairy mesothorax approaches the albipeunis group and departs widely from hdeola.
The character of armed cheeks has already been referred to, and several others might be cited.
How strangely the several "specific" characters may appear or disappear, is shown well in the series of alblpennis and verbesince.
There is, however, one natural group, that of texana and latioVy which is very distinct and may ultimately be regarded as forming a distinct genus.
F. Smith's generic name Macrotera has been used for texana, but perhaps incorrectly.
Summing up, the writer has to express the opinion that variations in Perdita certainly do not occur indefinitely in all directions, but that they do occur independently, so that the several species differ from one another hardly soliuich in absolute characters, as in the various combinations presented of similar or identical characters Furthermore, it is apparent that the earliest distinctions between species are at least often of a very subtle character, so that the workings of natural selection during the actual process of segregation are anything but easy to observe.
And this need not surprise us when we reflect that among ourselves constitutional characters, not easily identified by any coincident structural features, play so large a part in determining our ability to reach manhood and beget offspring.
ARTIFICIAL KEY.
(Note.
— The numbers before the specific names coincide with the numbers of the same in the descriptive portion.)
Entirely yellow, with no conspicuous markings 1 Yellow or orange, with dark markings 3 Head and thorax dark 5 1.
8 mm.
long, mesothorax pubescent, pleura with a black patch 63 beata $ About 4 mm.
long, head very large, cheeks armed 15 larrece $ Over 5 mm.
long, head ordinary, cheeks unarmed, mesothorax not pubescent 2 2.
Antennae dark above, a black line before the eyes, 55 hiteola 9 Antennse not dark, a black dot before the eyes .
55 luleola S 3.
Extremely small, cheeks armed, mesothorax mostly green, 16 'inarcialis $ Not so small, vertex with a black band from eye to eye, thorax with black markings 4 4.
Size 6 mm., head very large, abdomen without distinct bands 34 cephalotes $ Size 4i mm., head not very large, abdomen with distinct bands 35 puiietosignata $ 5.
Abdomen orange, or orange-brown, or ferruginous; not banded, unless at base 6 Abdomen dark brown, or black, or spotted, or banded .
.
13 6.
Head large, abdomen short and broad, ferruginous, marginal cell obliquely truncate, mandibles bidentate ... 7 Not so 8 7.
Head brown, thorax black 1 texana $ Head and thorax dark green 2 latior $ 8.
Cheeks toothed beneath, legs entirely yellow .
14 pulchriov $ Cheeks unarmed , 9 9.
Face all dark 10 Face partly pale 11 10.
Nervures colorless, abdomen orange .... 54 semicrocea 2 Nervures fuscous, abdomen dark testaceous, 32 halictoides ?
Nervures ferruginous, abdomen ferruginous .
.
33 hicolor $ 11.
The pale color confined to clypeus and triangular marks at side of face 20 chamcesarachce 9 Face all light below antenure ; length 3?
mm 12 12.
Area between eyes and ocelli smooth and shining likemesothorax,2d segment of abdomen with a dark band, vertex and mesothorax not blue 54 semicrocea S Area between eyes and ocelli di.stinctly granular, much duller than the shining mesothorax, 2d segment of abdomen without a band, vertex and mesothorax dark blue, 20 cham(esarachce $ 13.
Clypeus entirely dark 14 Clypeus not entirely dark 24 14.
Abdomen piceous with yellow spots or dots, legs with yellow markings 15 Abdomen not spotted ](> 15.
Length about 6 mm., abdomen with only 4 pale dots .
.
26 var.
punctata 9 Length about 5 mm., abdomen with 6 pale yellow spots or blotches 26 sexmnculata 9 16.
Abdomen black with pale yellowish bands 17 Abdomen not banded 20 Abdomen dark brown, with a short white band on 2d segment; size very small, less than 4 mm.
.
41 cladothricis 9 Abdomen testaceous with suffused bands, mesothorax smooth, shiny 6 ventralis 9 17.
Stigma brownish, mesothorax hairy, size larger, 7 mm.
or over 18 Stigma entirely pallid, mesothorax practically nude, size smaller, not over 6 mm 19 18.
Nervures almost colorless 22 sp}iceralce(e 9 Nervures dark brown 22 y.alticola 9 19.
Anterior femora mostly black, abdomen with heavy dark bands 12 mentzelice 9 Anterior femora entirely pale, abdomen with evanescent bands 13 pallid'wr 9 20.
Head and thorax piceous, marginal cell obliquely truncate, abdomen ovate, size rather large 1 texana 9 Thorax black except the green metathorax ; head green, front feneous 53 (eneifrons 9 Thorax black except the blue metathorax ; head blue ; a yellow spot on each side of clypeus ... 18 semmerulea 9 Head and thorax green 21 21.
Females 22 Males, size small, nervures and stigma testaceous, fore tibise yellow in front 4 arcuaia $ 22.
Abdomen broad, mandibles bidentate, marginal cell obliquely truncate 2 latior 9 Not so 23 23.
Small, about 4?
mm.
long, nervures brown .
.
52 phymatiz 9 Larger, nervures nearly colorless 68 v. nigrior 9 24.
Face below level of antenn?e all yellow or white, except clypeal dots in some.
Males 25 Face below level of antennae not all pale 43 25.
Face below antenna; white 2(i Face below antenme yellow 28 26.
Last three segments of abdomen rufous, the other banded 19 crotonis.
Abdomen yellowish-white, banded, face below antennre pellucid white, first 4 legs all dull white except a dark streak on middle tibiae 50 pellucida.
Abdomen dark brown with white m"arkings 27 27.
Abdomen with about 6 white marks, or fewer yellowish spots 42 pectidis.
Abdomen with two more or less developed w'hite bands, 41 cladothricis.
28.
Legs black with a little yellowish 25 affinis.
Anterior and middle femora marked with black, cheeks unarmed .
.
.
.
29 Anterior femora all yellow, the 4 anterior tibite not all yellow 33 First 4 legs all yellow, or at least not marked with black or brown 34 29.
Nervures pallid 22 sphceralcece.
Nervures dark 30 30.
Face and disc of mesothorax nearly bare, face below anteuiise bright yellow 31 Face and disc of mesothorax hairy 32 31.
Very small, abdomen yellow with pale suffused brown bands 43 biparticeps.
Larger, abdomen dark with clean-cut interrupted light bands 27 redan gulata.
32.
Head broader than long, distal band on 2d abdominal segment broadly continued to lateral margin, dog-earmarks with more or less of a dark border below .
22 v. alticola.
Head round, distal band of 2d abdominal segment failing some distance before lateral margin .... 38 hirsuta.
33.
Face all yellow (except the anteorbital spots) up to middle ocellus 29 hdeiceps.
Face not all yellow up to middle ocellus .
.
49 maculipes.
34.
Legs entirely orange-rufous, abdomen black, nervures brown 21 Joxi.
Legs not orange-rufous, abdomen banded 35 So.
The yellow extending above antenna in median line ... 36 The yellow not extending above antennae in median line .
41 36.
The yellow extending above across the face 37 The yellow extending above only at sides and middle line .
39 37.
Larger, about 5 mm.
long, face-markings resembling ^»<terrezioe 48 bigelovice.
Smaller, about 4 mm.
long 38 38.
Face yellow up to anterior ocellus 37 martini.
Face not yellow up to anterior ocellus ... 45 cjntierrezke.
39.
Upward extension of yellow in median line narrow, shaped like a spear-head, abdomen above with only 3 or 4 bands, 40 salicis.
Upward extension of yellow in median line broader ... 40 40.
Incursion of blue downward terminating at a right angle ; pleura dark 47 nltldella.
Incursion of blue terminating at an acute angle ; pleura largely yellow 36 exclamans.
41.
Cheeks armed, abdomen heavily banded .
.12 mentzelioi.
Cheeks unarmed 42 42.
Abdomeu not heavily marked 13 pallidior.
Abdomen piceous with ill-defined yelloAvish bands .... 10 ohscurata.
43.
The pale color confined to clypeus and sides of face ... 44 The pale color not confined to clypeus and sides of face .
.
72 44.
Abdomen dark, not banded, or the bands discontinuous .
45 Abdomen with continuous bands 63 45.
Larger species, length over 6 mm 46 Smaller species, 6 mm.
or less 51 46.
Mesothorax practically nude 47 Mesothorax hairy 49 47.
Abdomen dark brown without pale marks .
.
.56 nuda 9 Abdomen with pale marks, clypeus pale with two black bars, 48 48.
Abdominal markings yellow 11 odomaculata 9 Abdominal markings creamy white .... 58 seneeionis.
9 49.
Female ; abdomen more or less spotted .
.
68 verhesime.
Males 50 50.
Head and thorax brassy-green 70 lej)achidU.
Head and thorax rather bluish-green .
.
.
()9 albipennis.
51.
Abdomen without distinct light markings 51a Abdomen with yellow or white markings .
58 51a Pale face-marks reduced to a spot on clypeus; nervures brown 52 phymatce var.
9 Pale face-marks not so reduced, lateral marks present .
.
52 52.
Nervures brown, Californian species 53 Nervures pallid 54 53.
Lateral face-marks with their upper angle a right angle.
3 californica $ var.Lateral face-marks with their upper angle a very acute angle 31 trisignata 9 54.
Clypeus with two large dark patches on hind margin, upper angle of lateral face-marks a very acute angle, mesothorax very hairy 57 asteris 9 Clypeus pale except the usual dots 55 55.
Anterior tibiae black in front ; face extremely hairy .
.
.
65 albovittata S Anterior tibiie yellow or rufotestaceous in front 56 ■56.
Marginal cell with the substigmatal portion very much longer than the poststigmatal, size very small 17 larrearum 9 Marginal cell ordinary 57 57.
Larger (4i mm.
), face less hairy, lateral face-marks shaped like the main-sail of a schooner 66 vagans $ Smaller (4 mm.
), face more hairy, lateral face-marks triangular 59 vespertilio <?
58.
Abdomen with 6 or 8 white marks 59 Abdomen with yellowish markings 60 59.
Mesothorax shiny ; clypeus dark with a light spot ; facemarkings white 42 pectidis $ Mesothorax dull; clypeus light with dark spots or bars; face-markings yellowish 51 fallax 9 60.
Face-markings white, 1st segment of abdomen largely blue, 5 interrupta $ Face-markings yellowish or yellow 61 61.
Postscutellum yellow 7 mexicanorvm $ Postscutellum not yellow H2: 62.
Nervures dark brown, lateral face-marks truncate above, clypeus light marked with dark, mesothorax dullish, abdominal marks very pale 25 affinis 9 Nervures colorless, lateral face-marks pointed above, clypeus dark marked with light, mesothorax shining, abdominal marks yellower 10 obscnrata 9 63.
Larger species, length over 6 mm 64 Smaller species, 6 mm.
or less 68' 64.
Males, abdominal bands narrow, inconspicuous, dull yellow, emarginate at sides 65 Females, bands conspicuous 66 65.
Front comparatively shining, flagellum blackish 69 var.
heliantld $ Front dull, flagellum orange 68 verbesiiice $ 66.
Abdomen white with black bands, clypeus white with two black dots 64 perpulchra 9 Abdomen dark with yellow bands 67 67.
Nervures dark 67 sparsa 9 Nervures colorless 69 albipennis 9 68.
Clypeus hairy, legs black, face-markings and abdominal bands white 65 albovittata 9 Not so 69 69.
Yellow at sides of face extending above level of insertion of antennae : size very small 44 mistini $ Yellow or whitish at sides of face only extending to level of insertion of antennie ; size not so small 70' 70.
Abdomen dark Avith light bands 48 bigelovice 9 Abdomen light with dark bands 71 71.
Mesothorax very shiny, dark blue-green ... 47 nitidella 9 Mesothorax dull, hairy, brassy-green 28 snowii 9 72.
Dog-ear marks absent 73 Dog-ear marks present, or at least represented by dots .
.
88 73.
Abdomen with the last two segments bright rufous, the others white with black bands 19 crotonis 9 Not so 74 74.
Bands of abdomen at least mostly entire 75 Bands of abdomen all interrupted 80 Abdomen dark without bands 82 75.
Stigma solid dark brown or black, clypeus with two broad black bars, lateral pale areas of face pinkish, 39 numerata 9 Stigma hyaline, at least centrally 7t> 76.
Anterior legs entirely yellow, mesothorax dull, sides of face broadly yellow up to level of antennoe, then for a short way suddenly very narrowly 27 rectangulata 9 Anterior legs partly black 77 77.
The black bands of abdomen not united on lateral margin, anterior tibiae all yellow, lateral pale triangle of face coming to a point above, face-markings lemon-yellow .
.
8 zonalis 9 The black bands of abdomen more or less united on lateral margin, anterior tibire with a black mark behind .... 78 78.
Lateral triangle of face obliquely truncate above ; a bluer species 48 bigelovice.
9 var.
Lateral triangle of face coming to a point above, but narrower than in zonalis, face-markings pallid ; a greener species 79 79.
Supraclypeal mark broad, notched in middle .
24 bakerce 9 Supraclypeal mark narrower, or reduced to two spots .
.
23 zebrata 9 80.
Female, flagellum only pale testaceous beneath 25 affinis 9 var.
Males 81 81.
Flagellum dark; species of eastern U. S. .
11 odomaculata.
Flagellum mostly yellow ; species of Lower California .
.
.
67 sparsa.
82.
Head large, quadrate, face very hairy .... 62 latlceps $ Head ordinary, face not so hairy ... 57 asteris 9 var.
83.
Abdomen black or dark brown, without pale marks ... 84 Abdomen not banded, but with yellow marks 86 Abdomen distinctly banded 87 84.
Cheeks armed, head large, clypeus with a narrow median line and broad anterior border yellow, two yellow spots above clypeus 60 grandiceps $ Cheeks unarmed, clypeus all pale except the usual dots .
.
85 85.
Lateral corners of clypeus reaching base of mandibles, marginal cell shorter 3 californica $ Lateral corners of clypeus not reaching base of mandibles, marginal cell longer 61 crassiceps $ 86.
The yellow abdominal marks oblique, dog-ear marks represented by dots only 9 nevadensis 9 The yellow abdominal marks small and straight .
46 tarda S 87.
Males 88 Females 92 ^^.
Cheeks armed 6 ventralis.
Cheeks unarmed 89 89.
Mesothorax granular, abdominal bands without lateral bulgings on proximal margin, face-markings deep yellow, 22 sjyhoiralcece var.
Mesothorax smooth and shining 90 90.
Middle and posterior femora yellow, without black patches, abdominal bands regular, though with sublateral bulgings on proximal margins, marginal cell longer, 30 duhia S Middle and posterior femora with black spots or patches, marginal cell shorter 91 91.
Siipraclypeal mark very little broader than long, 23 zebrata $ Supraclypeal mark nearly twice as broad as long .... 24 hakerce $ 92.
Nervures colorless ; pale stripe along anterior orbits not extending to level of middle ocellus .... 40 salicis.
Nervures dark ; pale stripe along anterior orbits extending to level of middle ocellus 36 exclamans.
Species of Texas and Mexico, ivitli the mandibles bifid at tips, the head large, the digma subobsolete, the abdomen broad, rufous in the S , black or piceous in the 9 • 1.
Perdita texana (Cr.)
Cr., Cat.
Hym., 1887, p. 296.
9 Macrotera texana Cr., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1878, p. 70.
(Hab., Texas).
cf Macrotera me<jacephala Cr., 1. c, p. 71.
(Hab., Texas).
This species was discovered by Mr. L. Heiligbrodt, who took three of each sex.
I know of no other specimens, and nothing is known of the exact locality or habits.
The dark chocolate-brown head and black thorax at once separate this species from P. latior.
In both species the marginal cell is obliquely truncate.
2.
Perdita latior n. sp.
Fig.
6, (part of wing).
S 9 , length 52-6 mm., broad, head large, broader than long ; head, thorax, legs and tip of abdomen with pubescence consisting of dull white erect hairs : punctuation of vertex, mesothorax and scutellum very fine and close; upper surface of nietathorax bare, shining, minutely granular; dorsum of abdomen very minutely punctured, the punctures on Fig, 6. first segment very sparse.
Tegulse pale testaceous ; ■wings hyaline, nervures pale brown, stigma little developed, 3d discoidal present, marginal about as long as 1st submarginal, 2d submarginal narrowed more than half to marginal.
$ .
— Clypeus prominent, with a minute tooth on each side.
Head and thorax dark green, metathorax strongly tinged bluish.
Mandibles except their dark tips, clypeus, lower corner of face, and a broad transverse band between antennae, dull testaceous.
The punctuation, which is close before the ocelli, becomes sparse behind them.
Antennae dull testaceous, more or less suffused with blackish.
Legs dark piceous, the front of the anterior tibiae and all the tibial spurs, dull testaceous.
Abdomen shining, ferruginous ; first segment more or less suflTused with blackish.
9 .
— Head and thorax dark green, face almost black, dorsum of mesothorax and scutellum purplish, dorsum of metathorax bluish.
Antennae dark brown, the last 7 joints of flagellum beneath becoming dull testaceous or ferruginous.
Mandibles yellowish-ferruginous, dark at tips.
Legs colored as in ^ .
Abdomen brownblack, the margins of the segments subtestaceous.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., middle of August, 1895, on flowers of Sphceralcea angustifolia, 3^,3?.
(Ckll., 4,806, 4,809, 4,814, etc.)
It was associated with Diadasia and Halictus.
Ohs.. P. arcuata Fox, the description of which reads rather like latior, is of a different group, viz.
that of californica, etc.
Species of California and Mexico, with the cly2yeus in the $ narroivly produced at the sides to the bases of the mandibles, resembling in, shape a panama hat.
8.
Perdita californica (Cr.)
Cr., Cat.
Hym., 1887, p. 296.
^ Macrotera californica Cr., Tr.
Am.^Ent.
Soc, 1878, p. 71.
(Hab., California).
Three specimens are known, collected by Edwards and Crotch.
Nothing is known of exact locality or habits.
The following notes were made from one of the types.
Clypeus panama-hat-shaped, as in interrupta.
Cheeks unarmed.
Dog-ear marks distinct, but supraclypeal mark wanting.
Head quite large.
Mandibles simple.
The lateral face-marks have their upper angle a right angle, and are so placed as to be exactly level with top of clypeus, the dog-ear marks projecting a little above the same level.
The mesothorax is tolerably shiny, but quite closely and strongly punctured.
The stigma and veins are brown, not very dark ; marginal long, obliquely truncate, appendiculate, poststigmatal portion considerably longer than substigmatal.
Stigma small.
2d submarginal large, narrowed fully one-half to marginal.
3d discoidal distinct but rather weak.
The following tables separate calijornica from two species presenting a certain superficial resemblance to it.
A.
(1).
Upper margin of face-marks forming nearly a straight line.
Head larger.
Marginal cell appendiculate.
Margins of abdominal segments very distinctly reddish-testaceous, =californica $ .
(2).
Upper margin of face-marks forming a broad W. Head smaller.
Marginal cell not appendiculate.
Margins of abdominal segments not reddish-testaceous, =asteris 9 • B.
(1).
Larger.
Supraclypeal mark absent.
Lateral face-marks not reaching level of insertion of antennse.
Clypeus shaped like a panama hat, .... =californica $ .
(2).
Smaller.
Supraclypeal mark present.
Lateral face-marks going above level of insertion of antennse.
Clypeus shaped like a rather low cork helmet, .
.
=tarda $ .
4.
Perdita arcuata Fox, Proo.
Cala.
Acad., 1893, p. 18. cf (Hab., Calmalli Mines, L.
Cala., in April).
Two specimens known, found by Mr. Haines.
From one of these I noted as follows: Mandibles simple; cheeks unarmed.
Diflfers from semicoerulea, phymatce and latior in having margins of abdominal segments broadly rufotestaceous, exactly as in californica.
In the shape of the head, and general structure, it precisely agrees with californica ; but differs from that by its entirely dark face, the labrum and the base of the mandibles only being yellowish.
The vertex is well punctate, and it and the mesthorax are quite dull.
5.
Perdita interrupta Cr., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1878, p. 70.
$ (Hab., California).
Three specimens were found by Crotch ; we have no information as to exact locality or habits.
From one of the types I noted the following : • Cheeks unarmed, quite densely (for a Perdita) white pubescent.
Face more hairy than usual.
Clypeus with two black dots.
Lateral pale patches efface forming nearly right-angled triangles, the upper angle being the right angle.
Mesothorax granular, dull.
Wings distinctly smoky, nervures dark brown.
Marginal rather long, substigraatal portion equal topoststigmatal.
Second submarginal narrowed about or hardly one-half to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Fir.st segment of abdomen, except its distal margin, blue, granular, in strong contrast with the piceous remaining segments.
P.fallax, which presents a certain superficial resemblance to interrupta, differs as follows : (1).
Its clypeus is shaped like a felt hat, not like a pauama hat as in interrupta.
(2).
The upper angle of lateral face-marks is a very acute angle.
(3).
The poststigmatal portion of marginal cell is distinctly longer than the substigmatal.
(4).
The head and thorax are green, whereas they are blue in interrupta.
6.
Perdita ventralis Fox, Proc.
Gala.
Acad., 1893, p. 17. cj (as $ ex.
err.)
; Proc.
Gala.
Acad., 189.^, p. 116 9.
The original types, three specimens, were found by Mr. Haines on Margarita Island, L.
Cala., in March.
Later, the same collector obtained numerous examples including females, on Magdalena Island, also in March.
These islands are close together, a little south of the 25th parallel of latitude.
The $ has the cheeks armed, and the clypeus panama-hat shaped.
In the 9 the cheeks are unarmed, and the clypeus differently shaped.
In the $ the mandibles are very slender, pointed ; in the 9 stout, notched within.
In view of these differences, it is at first hard to believe that they are sexes of one species, for all that they agree in the abdomen with its suffused banding, in the mesothorax, etc.
P. ventralis is smaller than mentzelice and pallidior, and differs by the suffused banding of abdomen.
P. mentzelice and pallidior have the mesothorax microscopically tessellate, with distinct sparse punctures ; ventralis has it very shiny, smooth, hairless except the anterior third, which is sparsely hairy and punctured.
The thorax shines distinctly blue in ventralis $ , but in the 9 it hardly goes off a pure black.
The $ resembles californica in its face-markings, but is so much smaller, and the dog-ear marks are much more prominent.
The vertex is minutely roughened in the same way in $ and 9 .
The face in the 9 is all dark, not so in the $ .
The S has the lateral face-marks much broader than long, the dog-ear marks welldeveloped, but the supraclypeal mark represented only by a dot adjacent to each dog ear mark.
It is to be regretted that ventralis is the only undoubted member of the californica group of which we know the 9 • The-sexual differences in Perdita are very unequal in the different species, whether occurring as face-markings or as structural characters.
In the undoubted sexes of P. verbesuue, the elypeal differences are not so great as in ventralis, but the difference in the mandibles is actually much greater.
7.
Perdita mexicanorumn.
sp.
$ .
— Length about 5J ram.
Head and thorax dark blue.
Head rather large, cheeks unarmed, clypeus panama-hat shaped, glossa very long and unusually hairy.
Cheeks and face very sparsely hairy with short hairs.
Vertex strongly granular, and with rather close but shallow punctures.
Antennae entirely sepia-brown, the same color above as below.
Mandibles yellowish, subtestaceous, dark at tips, simple, not particularly slender.
Face-markings sulphur-yellow ; clypeus yellow with the usual two black dots very small and near the edge, and its proximal margin (the crown of the panama-hat) broadly dark, the edge of the yellow somewhat irregular and medially emarginate.
Supraclypeal and dog-ear marks absent.
Sides of face with large squarish yellowish patches, their upper margins truncate and rather irregular, about level with the top of the clypeus.
Inwardly, these patches do not join the elypeal margin, but leave a thin wedge of dark color between.
Thorax dark blue, the mesothorax slightly inclined to greenish.
Prothorax and tubercles entirely dark ; postscutellum sulphuryellow.
Mesothorax moderately shining, but distinctly granular and punctuate, median groove distinct.
Metathorax shining but very distinctly granular.
Tegulse testaceous ; wings slightly smoky, nervures and stigma dull brownish-ochreous, stigma not centrally hyaline.
Marginal cell rather loug, very distinctly appeudiculate, poststigmatal portion a little longer than substigmatal.
Second submarginal rather large, narrowed hardly one-half to marginal, the narrowing more proximal, than distal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Cubital and subdiscoidal nervures produced almost to wing-margin.
Legs sepia-brown ; anterior tibise in front, and a stripe on middle tibiae, yellow.
Abdomen shining, sepia-brown, darker toward the apex ; venter nearly the same.
There are well-defined yellow marks at sides of segments 2-5, partly passing over to the venter.
Hab.
— Mexico, one example sent by Mr. Fox.
Unhappily we know nothing of the exact locality or habits of this interesting species.
It is the only Perdita I know with a yellow postscutellum.
Two species from Nevada, known only in the $ ; exact locality and habits unknown.
8.
Perdita zonalis Cr., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1879, p. 202.
9 (Hab., Nevada).
Ten specimens were collected by Morrison.
From one of these I have noted as follows : Clypeu?
low cork-helmet type, reaching base of mandibles.
Mesothorax excessively shiny, dark brassy-green, very sparsely but distinctly punctured.
Face markings pale yellow.
Upper margin of clypeus medially truncate, not rounded.
Clypeus all yellow except two dark dots.
Supraclypeal patch well-developed, broad, but not twice as broad as long.
No dog-ear marks.
Sockets of antennse narrowly ringed with yellow.
Lateral face marks triangular, rather broad, coming to a point at level of insertion of antennse.
Upper margin of face marks not forming a W but V V. Stigma and nervures pale testaceous, stigma large, marginal cell with poststigmatal portion longer than substigmatal.
Second submarginal large, narrowed one-half to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Abdomen above yellow with four black bands, and a black mark on each side of first segment.
The abdomen is peculiar for the black bands being very distinct, neither notched nor interrupted in the middle, and narrower than the yellow between them.
From zebrata and bakerce it may be known by the black bauds of abdomen not being united on lateral margin, the anterior tibiae all yellow, the lateral triangle of face broader and the face markings lemon-yellow.
From salicis 9 it is distinguished at once by the very much broader lateral face-marks.
5 9.
Perdita nevadensis n. sp.
9 .
— Length almost 6 mm.
Head so dark green as to seem black ; thorax pitch black, with the metathorax green.
In certain lights the prothorax and anterior part of the mesothorax present a greenish lustre.
Head moderately large, broader than long, depressed on vertex ; clypeus shaped like a rather low cocked-hat, flattened at the top, the teeth of anterior margin dark and rather long.
Vertex dull, rugulose.
Face and cheeks with sparse inconspicuous hairs.
Antennae dark brown ; the flagellum paler, inclining to yellow beneath.
Face-markings pale dull yellowish ; clypeus pale with two broad divergent black bars and a black dot distad of each, supraclypeal mark represented by two round or suboval spots; dog-ear marks represented by obscure small spots, not alike on both sides ; lateral pale patches triangular, the upper angle an acute one and level with the insertion of the antennae, the shortest side of the triangle at least two-thirds the length of the longest.
Mesothorax shiny, hardly granular, sparsely hairy and punctate.
Thorax all dark, except the tubercles, which are pale yellow.
Metathorax granular.
Tegulsepale testaceous.
Wings hyaline, faintly smoky, uervures and stigma pale brown, stigma centrally subhyaline.
Marginal cell moderately long, obliquely truncate, poststigmatal portion a very little longer than substigmatal.
Second submarginal large, narrowed on its distal side one-half to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Legs dark brown, anterior knees, anterior tibiae in front and stripe on middle tibiae, yellow.
Abdomen rather broad, above and below piceous, segments 2-4 above with distinct oblique lateral yellow marks.
The mark on the 2d segment is on one side broken into two.
Hab.
— Nevada, one specimen sent by Mr. Fox.
The following tables will separate nevadensis from some species which it superficially resembles.
A.
(1).
Lateral marks efface triangular, terminating in a point, ^=^nevadensis $ .
(2).
Lateral marks of face truncate at end and notched within, =affi7iis 9 • B.
(1).
Face-markings whitish, lateral marks narrower, abdominal marks white, ..... =Jallax 9 .
(2).
Face-markings yellow, lateral marks broader, abdominal marks yellow, .... =^nevadensis 9 .
C. (1).
Larger, clypeus higher, siipraclypeal mark absent, lateral marks notched within, .
.
.
odomaculata 9 .
(2), Smaller, clypeus lower, siipraclypeal mark present, lateral marks not notched within.
.
.
^nevadensis 9 .
Species found east of the 95th meridian.
10.
Perdita obscurata Cr., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1878, p. 70. cf ?
(Hab., Georgia).
One male and one female were found by Morrison.
I have made the following description from the female ; the student will observe that in some points it disagrees with that of Cresson, notwithstanding that it is from the same specimen.
$ .
— Head and thorax dark bluish -green.
Clypeus broad, not much attenuate at sides, reaching base of mandibles.
Face-markings pale yellow, lateral marks very narrow, inversely club-shaped, reaching as far as level of insertion of antennae.
Clypeus without marks, except a very distinct central one, shaped like an inverted egg-cup with the egg in it, the base at posterior clypeal border, the apex not reaching anterior border of clypeus.
Mandibles except tips pale yellow.
Mesothorax shiny.
Tubercles rather pale brownish.
Hind margin of prothorax with two small yellow spots.
Wings hyaline, stigma very large, pale yellowish, veins colorless.
Marginal cell with the substigmatal portion a little longer than the poststigmatal.
First submarginal very long, longer than marginal.
Second submarginal short, suboval and high, narrowed about onehalf to marginal.
On one side there is a small petiolate submarginal •cell between normal 1st and 2d submarginals, it receives the first recurrent nervure, and is approximately an equilateral triangle.
Third discoidal distinct.
The broadly interrupted narrow fascise on abdomen are not obscure or suffused, but clean-cut and distinct.
It differs from the 9 of affinis by the lateral face-marks being pointed above, the clypeus dark marked with light, the mesothorax shiny, the nervures colorless, and the abdominal marks yellowish.
The $ I have not seen ; Mr. Fox has kindly sent me a sketch of the face-markings, showing the face entirely yellow below the level of the antennae, the yellow not extending upward at all in the median line, but obliquely extending upward at the sides from the antennal socket to the orbital margin, where it ends at an angle of about 50°.
The cheeks, Mr. Fox informs me, are not armed.
Mr. Charles Robertson tells me that at Orlando, Florida, on March 16th, he captured a $ obscurata on lowers of Sydrocotyle icmbellata.
11.
Perdita octomaculata (Say).
Cr., Cat.
Apidse, 1879, p. 216.
PanurguB 8-maculatiis Say, Long's 2d.
Exped., ii, p. 350, 1824.
^$ (Hab., U, S.).
I have a 9 from New York State, sent by Dr. Skinner, and a ^ from southern Illinois, sent by Mr. Roberston.
Mr, Fox informs me that he has seen specimens from the White Mts., N. H., collected by Mrs. Slosson,New York, New Jersey and Virginia.
He has taken it in southern New Jersey, but sparingly.
Prof. J.
B. Smith reports it from Westville, N. J., on Cresson's authority.
Of its habits, nothing has been recorded, but Mr. C. Robertson informs me that he has taken it from Aug. 13th to Sept. 20th, on flowers o^ Solidago canadensis, Coreopsis aristosa and Aster ericoides var.
villosus.
Three allied species found on Mentzelia in New Mexico.
12.
Perdita mentzeliae n. sp.
$ .
— About 5j mm.
long.
Head rather large, quadrate, broader than thorax, mandibles simple, cheeks beneath with a prominent tooth, lower margin of clypeus nearly straight; vertex finely rugulose, with sparse feeble punctures between the ocelli and the antennae ; eyes narrow.
Color very dark blue-green, with the whole of the face beneath the antennse, and the lower half of the cheeks, including the spines, orange-yellow.
On each side of the face the yellow extends upward, narrowing to a point on the orbital margin about two-thirds the length of the scape above the level of the insertion of the antennae.
Mandibles yellow with ferruginous tips.
Antennae yellow, becoming deep orange toward their tips ; the flagellum slightly marked with blackish above.
Thorax shiny, very dark blue-green, becoming black on the scutellum and hind part of mesothorax, metathorax tinged with blue.
Collar, tubercles, under side and part of hind border of prothorax orange-yellow.
Mesothorax with only a few scattered indistinct punctures.
Metathorax minutely granular.
Pleura, anterior border of mesothorax and sides of metathorax with scattered white hairs, Tegulse hyaline ; wings hyaline, nervures very pale yellowish.
Marginal cell about or hardly as long as stigma.
Second submarginal not narrowed one-half to marginal.
Third discoidal hardly perceptible.
Legs orange ; posterior femora with a brown patch behind ; posterior tibiae and tarsi mostly brown.
Abdomen orange-yellow, first segment almost all black, segments 2, 3 and 4 with broad suffused black bands.
Venter orange, immaculate.
Quite as often, perhaps more frequently, the abdomen is shining black above, except the terminal segment which is testaceous, and the more or less obviously testaceous distal margins of the other seo:ments.
9 .
— Somewhat larger ; head rounder, not broader than thorax.
Punctures of mesothorax distinct but scattered.
The pale markings all yellowish-white instead of yellow.
Face dark, clypeus black contrasting with the green upper part of face.
An irregularly triangular yellowish-white patch on each lower corner of face between clypeus and orbit.
Coxje black, their ends whitish.
Femora black, their tips whitish.
Tibise whitish, middle and hind tibise largely suffused with black.
Dorsum of abdomen with the black nearly covering the segments, leaving transverse white areas or bands, not continued to lateral margin, on segments 2-4.
Venter whitish, not banded.
Hab.
— Santa Fe, N. M., close to the Denver & Rio Grande depot, at flowers of 3Ienzelia nuda, Aug. 3, 1895, many specimens.
They were associated with Bomhus (abundant) and Andrena (rare).
13.
Perdita pallidior n. sp.
S .
— Resembles the $ of mentzelice, but differs in the cheeks being unarmed beneath, in the smaller head, the second submarginal cell more narrowed above, the legs entirely yellow, the abdomen above orange-yellow, with the first segment nearly all dark brown or black, and a dark brown band on segments 2 and 3, that on 3d failing some distance before the lateral margin.
9 .
— Resembles the 9 of mentzelice, but differs in the legs being all yellowish-white, except a dusky shade on inside of anterior femora, and outside of middle and posterior tibise.
The white subtriangular marks on sides of face are rather more produced upward along the orbital margin.
The abdomen above is yellowish-white, the first segment with a broad brown-black ring, the second and third segments with dark bauds, the fourth segment with a pair of dark spots, suffused in outline.
Hab.
— Albuquerque, N. M., close to Prof. Hadley's house, abundant on flowers of Mentzelia nuda, Aug. 15, 1895.
A single 9 was also swept from Gutierrezia sarothrce (det.
E. O. Wooton) at the same time and place.
No other bees were then found upon the Mentzelia, except Perdita pulchrior.
On the G^ltierrezia were found also Perdita gidierrezice and P. austini, one each.
14.
Perdita pulchrior n. sp.
Fig.
7, (part of wing).
$ .
— Resembles the ^ of pallidior, but rather larger and stoutly built, with the cheeks armed below with a pi'ominent spine.
Head large and subquadrate.
Second submarginal not so much narrowed above.
Legs entirely yellow.
Abdomen above shiny pale orange-yellow, the first segment mostly black, second with a pair of dark spots ; no dark bands.
The second Fig.
7. segment may have its lateral margins also dark, and the third segment may show spots.
Hab.
— Albuquerque, N. M., on Mentzelia 7n(f?a,same time and place as pallidior, two males (Ckll., 4,537, 4,538).
On Sept. 12th, I was surprised to take another example, also a male, on Bigelovia wrightii close to the Agricultural College, Las Cruces, N. M. This speciesmay possibly represent 9. dimorphic $ of pallid lor ; the 9 is either unknown, or not to be separated from those presumably referable ta pallid ior.
Four species found on Larrea in Neiv Mexico.
15.
Perdita larreae n. s}).
Fig.
8.
(stigma etc).
$ .
— Hardly 4 mm.
long, bright orange-yellow, smooth and shiny • pubescence consisting of sparse white hairs on vertex, cheeks beneath^ mesothorax, pleura, tibise, tarsi, apex and venter of abdomen.
Head very large, considerably larger than the small thorax, subquadrate ; clypeus joroduced into Fig.
8.
^ spine at each lower corner, cheeks with a stout spine beneath, eyes rather small and narrow.
Wings small, hyaline, nervures white, stigma hyaline in middle.
Marginal cell narrow but hardly produced beyond stigma, not quite as long as first submarginal, appendiculate.
Second submarginal very small, triangular, coming to a point at its junction with marginal.
First recurrent joining, first transverse cubital.
Third discoidal cell wanting.
The mandibles are elongate, simple, dark at tips.
The ocelli are more or less dark, with some dark marbling about them.
Tongue about as long as head.
Hab.
— San Marcial, N. M., close to Mr. Shope's house, at flowers of Larrea divaricata var, tridentata, June 28, 1895.
Five specimens.
16.
Perdita marcialis n. sp.
$ .
— Size and form of P. larrece.
Anterior margin of clypeus not so broad, with the spines longer and parallel ; whereas in larrece they are divergent.
Wings as in larrece, but the marginal cell rather more produced beyond stigma.
A keel between antennae, giving place to a groove running upward to middle ocellus.
Color deep orange, with dark markings.
A black spot before the upper part of each anterior orbital margin ; a large green-metallic patch on vertex, enclosing the two posterior ocelli, but just escaping the anterior one or only partly enclosing it ; mesothorax shiny metallic olive-green, except rather broad yellow lateral margins ; dorsum of metathorax dark green ; a large round dark patch on sides of thorax beneath.
Abdomen above more or less suffused with brown, which is dark at base of first and apex of second segments, and becomes reddish on last two segments.
Hind legs tinged with brown.
Mandibles simple as in larrecB.
Hah.
— San Marcial, N.
j\I., on Larrea at the same time and place as P. larrece.
One specimen.
17.
Perdita larrearum n. sp.
9 .
— 4 mm.
long.
Head dark brassy-green, thorax black, pleura and metathorax bluish, abdomen dark sepia-brown.
Head rounded, rather large, vertex conspicuously roughened, cheeks and occiput with a rather dense fringe of white hairs, clypeus and sides of face very narrowly pale yellowish-ferruginous, the pale color continuing along orbital margin some distance above level of antennae, but so thin that its termination is difRult to trace.
Antennae blackish above, yellowish beneath.
Tubercles and hind border of prothorax narrowly, yellowish.
Anterior portion of mesothorax curiously ornamented with appressed pure white hairs.
Mesothorax appearing granular, microscopically reticulate, with very sparse shallow punctures.
Legs brown, anterior tibiae and tarsi dull yellow.
Tegulae yellowish-hyaline.
Wings hyaline, nervures white or colorless.
Marginal cell with its substigmatal portion fully twice as long as the poststigmatal.
Second submarginal triangular, bulging without, narrowing to a point at marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Abdomen above sepia-brown, the proximal ends of the first two segments slightly yellowish.
Venter dull brownish-yellow.
Hab.
— San Marcial, N. M., on Larrea at the same time and place as P. larrece.
Three specimens.
There are three possibilities regarding the last three species : (1).
That they are three distinct species.
(2).
That the males represent two valid species, and larrearum the 9 of one of them.
(3).
That there is only one species, larrece, marcialis being the dimorphic $ and /arreor»9?i the normal $ of the same.
While I incline to one of the latter suppositions, the difference between the three forms is very great, so that ia the absence of further evidence they must be provisionally regarded as species.
18.
Perdita semicaerulea n. sp.
9 .
— Length 6 mm.
Unusually hairy, the pubescence erect and white.
Head of ordinary size, dark greenish-blue, bluer at sides of face, more brassy-green between antennre.
Vertex finely rugulose, punctured.
Clypeus high, pitch-black, smooth with large moderately close punctures.
The only face-markings consist of a shining, hairless, bright sulphur-yellow oval patch on each side of the clypeus, separated from the eye margin by a distance at least equal to its own diameter.
Antennse dark-brown, scape black, last joint of flagellum becoming pale.
The antennse are rather conspicuously enlarged toward their ends.
Mesothorax and scutellum smooth and shining, but with deep, large and rather close punctures.
Thorax all black, except the metathorax which is l)lue.
Pleura with quite long white hairs.
Tegulse hyaline.
Wings milky-hyaline, stigma very pale yellow, hyaline in middle, nervures colorless, costal uervure black.
Marginal cell rather short, appendiculate, poststigmatal portion hardly longer than'substigmatal.
Second submarginal large, narrowed about onehalf to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Legs brown-black, a little yellow on anterior tibipe and knees.
Abdomen shining, brown-black above and beneath.
Sides of first segment, and in a less degree those of the others, with tufts of white hairs.
Dorsum of last three segments more or less hairy, that of the last one considerably so.
Hab.
— San Marcial, N. M., on Larrea, at the same time and place as P. larrece.
One specimen.
(Ckll., 3,077).
This species is easily recognized by the dark clypeus, with a shining, smooth, yellow spot on each side of it.
It is not nearly related to P. larrece, but rather to P. phymake, which, however, has not the yellow spots.
A species uith the end of the abdomen rufou.
'<, found on Croton.
19.
Perdita crotonis n. sp.
9 .
— About 5 mm.
long.
Head rather broad, shining, dark blue or greenish-blue ; clypeus except two black dots, a transversely elongate mark adjacent to hind border of clypeus, narrowing medially, and a triangular patch on each side of face, not quite reaching to level of insertion of antenna, white.
Mandibles white with rufous tips.
Cheeks rather densely white-hairy.
Antennje with the scape black above, white beneath ; funicle and flagellum black or very dark brown, last joint of latter pale at tip.
Thorax shiny, rather <lensely pubescent for a Perdita, mesothorax very dark bottle green, median groove very distinct.
Tubercles and posterior median border of prothorax white.
Tegulse brownish, with a white spot on anterior half Scutellum quite brassy-green.
Metathorax dark blue, distinctly rugulose.
Pleura smooth, dark blue.
Legs white; with the femora except ends, most of hind coxae, a patch behind each of the four anterior tibise, the hind tibiae except basal third, and the hind tarsi, black.
Wings hyaline, nervures fuscous, stigma margined with fuscous.
Marginal cell with thepoststigmatal portion about or hardly as long as the substigmatal ; second submarginal narrowed about one-half to marginal ; third discoidal distinct.
Abdomen above and below with the last two segments entirely rufous, without markings.
Segments 1-3 above white, with black bands at proximal and distal margins of segn'ients, those on proximal margins of segments 2 and 3 very narrow, and that on distal margin of 3d represented only by a line of mottling.
(Ckll., 3,262, etc.)
Mut.
9 .
— Clypeus with two longitudinal black lines or bands in addition to the marks above described.
(Ckll., 3,259).
S .
— The whole of the face beneath the level of the antennae white, except the two black dots on clypeus.
Along the orbits the white is further produced a short distance, rapidly narrowing to a point.
Second submarginal narrowed distinctly more than half to marginal.
Last three segments of abdomen rufous.
Cheeks unarmed.
(Ckll., 3,261).
Hah.
— Albuquerque, N. M., June 30, 1895, in numbers at flowers of Croton texensis.
In August, Miss Myrtle Boyle found a single specimen at La Tenaja, near Santa Fe.
I looked for it at Santa Fe, but failed to find it, though the Croton is abundant.
A small species vith orange or orange-rufous abdomen found on Ch ama'saracha.
20.
Perdita chamsesarachae n. sp.
S .
— 3i mm.
long.
Head and thorax shining dark blue, abdomen brownish-orange.
Vertex granular.
Head rounded.
Face below antenna yellowish-white, the upper border of the pale color coincident with the loAver level of the insertion of the antennje, except that on each side of the dog-ear plate there is a notch formed by an incursion of the dark color.
Clypeus Avith a small black spot on each side.
Mandibles rufous at tips.
Antennae dark above, below dirty yellowish, the scape whiter.
Sides of face with appressed white hairs.
Cheeks unarmed, rather densely clothed beneath with erect white hairs.
Sides of metathorax, and postscutellum, with similar hairs.
Tubercles yellowish-white, tegulse hyaline.
Wings hyaline, nervures very pale straw-yellow, third discoidal very weak, second submarginal narrowing about one-half to marginal.
Legs pale yellow, a dark patch on anterior femora, and middle and posterior femora and tibiae largely dark.
Abdomen above bandless, first segment dark at base.
Venter entirely orange.
(Ckll., 4,568, etc.).
9 • — Closely similar, but the dog-ear marks and pale mark above clypeus wanting, i. e., the pale color on face is confined to the clypeus and triangular marks at sides of face.
(Ckll., 4,573).
Hab.
— Albuquerque, N. M., in the old town at flowers of ChamoBsaracha coronopus, Aug. 16, 1895, abundant.
Also at Santa Fe, in the capitol grounds, on flowers of C. coronopus, Aug. 2, 1895, two specimens.
At Santa Fe it was associated on the flowers with Halictus S and Colletes.
This species resembles P. semicrocea, but that has the face dark in the 9 .
A species from the transition zone in New Mexico, habits unknoum.
21.
Perdita foxi Ckll.
Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1895, p. 18.
^ (Hab., Santa Fe, N. M.) The unique type, taken on June 25th, is only known.
The species may be known by its orange-rufous legs, and black unhanded abdomen.
A species found on Sphoiralcea, very different in the sexes, ranging in modified form over 3,200 feet altitude.
22.
Perdita sphaeralceae n. sp.
9 .
— Length 7 5 mm.
Head and thorax dark greenish, abdomen black with three light bands.
Head rather small, rounded, somewhat broader than long, vertex and occiput dark olive-green, granular; a shining brassy prominence between the antennse; clypeus black, shining, sparsely punctured toward the sides.
No pale marks on face, except a small yellow spot on extreme lower corner.
Mandibles brownish, ferruginous at apex, sharply and squarely notched on inner side near end, but not actually bifid.
Cheeks quite densely hairy.
Antennie dark brown, almost black above.
Tubercles, and hind border of prothorax more or less, very pale yellowish.
Mesothorax bulging in front, not very shiny, dark brassy, hardly green, quite pubescent with erect whitish hairs.
Sides of metathorax with tufts of hairs, but i^ostscutellum not conspicuously hairy.
Teguke hyaline.
Wings hyaline, nervures very pale yellowish, almost colorless, stigma margined with brown.
Marginal cell rather long, poststigmatal portion distinctly longer than substigmatal.
First submarginal not nearly so large as first discoidal.
Second submarginal large, narrowing hardly one-half to marginal.
Third discoidal quite distinct.
Legs black ; anterior knees, anterior tibiae in front, middle tibise at tip behind, dull yellow.
Abdomen rather narrow, black ; second, third and fourth segments at base with a broad pale yellowish band, slightly notched in middle behind.
Venter dark brown.
The abdominal bands have a slightly greenish tint, so that when the insect is alive on the flowers it rather suggests a miniature Nomia similar to N. punctata.
$.
— Length 6 mm.
Cheeks unarmed.
Light markings all deep saffron-yellow, instead of pale greenish-yellow.
Mandibles simple, yellow with ferruginous tips.
Face beneath antennae all yellow, except two black dots on clypeus, the yellow moreover extending upward at sides of face, coming to a point at an angle of about 50°, not quite so far up as the length of the scape above level of insertion of autenme.
Antenna yellow; funicle, flagellum and end of scape above, dark brown.
Yellow hind margin of prothorax connecting with yellow tubercles.
Legs yellow; part of middle coxae, posterior coxae except ends and a spot behind, a large patch on anterior and middle femora behind, a patch on both sides of hind femora, a large patch on middle tibiae, and outer side of hind tibiae and tarsi, black.
Pleura with a round yellow patch, not very conspicuous, in front.
Abdomen above shining, dark brown, with rather broad yellow bands at proximal margins of segments 2-5, that on 4 narrowest, that on /) broadest, and notched behind medially.
Sixth segment dull rufous with a brown rather suffused band.
Venter dull orange.
Hah.
— Las Cruces, N. M., common at flowers of Sphceralcea angustijolia, middle of August to middle of September, 1895.
P. sphaeralceae, race alticola.
9 .
— Nervures dark brown.
A light spot on each side of 5th abdominal segment.
(Ckll., 3,850).
The spots on 5th segment may be absent as in the type.
$ .
— Nervures dark, as in the 9 • The dog-ear marks have more or less of a dark border below.
Mut.
SUFFUSA.
$ .
— Abdomen above suffused with brown, only the yellow bands on segments 2 and 3 remaining.
Dog-ear marks reduced, their lower half often wanting.
Mut.
9 • — Only 6 mm.
long.
Abdominal bands narrow^ that on segment 5th present though interrupted in the middle, (Ckll., 3,849).
This may be the proper 9 of mut.
suffusa.
Hah.
— Santa Fe, N. M., common at flowers of Sphceralcea angustifolia; the males much more frequent than the females.
The species was first taken in Mr. Boyle's garden on July 25, 1895; 2 normal S alticola, 2 <^ sxiffnsa.
On July 27th were taken several males, about equally divided between alticola proper and suffusa, and also two females.
The latest date I have is Aug. 8th, a 9 taken by Miss Myrtle Boyle.
The S differs from zehrata $ by its very dark (not bluish) thorax, much yellower light markings, darker stigma, and rather differently shaped face-markings.
A species found on Cleome serrulata (C. integrifolia).
23.
Perdita zebrata Cr., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1878, p. 69.
$ (Hab., Colorado).
S Perdita canina Ckll., Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1895, p. 17.
(Hab., Santa F6, N. M.).
Figs.
9, 10, (face-marks and <} genitalia).
Originally described from seven specimens taken by Ridings and Morrison.
The $ was not known until described by me as canina.
My No.
1,270 (1. c, p. 18) proves to have been the true 9 , and is identical with at least some of Cresson's types of zebrata, though it is possible that under this name more than one species was included.
The matter is complicated from the variability of 9 zebrata on the one hand, and the discovery of I', bakeroi on the other, the latter species being easily distinguished in the $ , but only with ex-.^ treme difficulty in the 9 • Mr. Fox has sent me a 9 Fig.
10.
Qf zebrata from the Magdalena ^'^^• Mts., N. M., Aug., 1894, collected by Snow.
Mr. C. F. Baker sends it from Fort Collins, Colorado, where it was collected in August ; this is the most uorlhern locality known for it.
The most southern locality is Alma, Socorro Co., N. M., where it was found by Mr. Alfred Holt.
I have myself collected it as follows : (1).
Albuquerque, June oOth and Aug. 16, 1895.
(2).
Lamy, N. M., July 2d and July 13th.
(3).
Santa Fe, N. M., July 5th to Aug. 3d.
(4).
Watrous, N. M., July 13th.
(5).
Las Vegas, N. M., July.
(6).
lia Junta, Colo., July.
Everywhere it is found in great abundance on flowers of Cleome serrulata, and on nothing else ; whereas the closely allied P. bakerce is found on Solidago.
On July 12th, at Santa Fe, I saw them settle on the stamens of the Cleovie, climb to the top, and collect the pollen.
At Watrous I saw one inserting its tongue in the base of the flower, running down the inner surface of the petals.
In the $ s the face-markings are very constant, but frequently the light bands of the abdomen will be interrupted on segments 3 and 4.
The 9 s vary much in the clypeal marks, from no marks on the clypeus but the usual pair of dots, to two black bars or even an almost wholly black clypeus.
These variations do not seem to have any reference to the environment.
Mr. Fox has examined for me all Cresson's type specimens of zehrata ( 9 ) and reports that they have the supraclypeal spot notched above, except one, which has it divided in two.
This last was the one Cresson actually had in hand when describing, as may be seen from his description.
The clypeus in four specimens is bispotted with black, in one entirely yellow.
A species very like P. zehrata, found on Solidago in Colorado.
24.
Perdita bakerae n. sp.
or race.
Figs.
11, 12, (head and cf genitalia).
$ .
— Like the $ of P. zehrata, but seems to average smaller, the pale bands of the abdomen are small and interrupted, at least on the third and fourth segments, and the supraclypeal mark is nearly twice as broad as long.
Sometimes the abdominal bands are entire, but the supraclypeal mark still affords a distinguishing character.
9 .
— Seems to diflTer only from 9 zehrata in its broader supraclypeal mark, notched in the middle.
Hah.—¥on Collins, Colorado, 12 $, 3 9, sent by Mr. C. F. Baker.
They were collected as follows: (1).
On Solidago canadensis, Aug. 8, 1895, both sexes.
(2).
On Solidago canadensis, Aug. 15, 1895, a $ .
(3).
On sticky flower-buds of Helianthiis annutis, Aug. 20, 1895, two ^s.
70 [1896.
When Mr. Baker sent me this species, with the statement that it was found on Solidago, I could hardly believe there had not been some mistake, as it so nearly resembled P. zebrata, which I have Fig.
12.
Fig.
11. found always on Cleome, never on Solidago.
Mr. Baker, however, assures me that there has been no mistake ; and on re-examining the series I find that it differs from zebrata, in the males at least, by the average greater reduction of the pale bands of the abdomen, and constantly in the broader supraclypeal mark.
We thus appear to have a species in the early stages of difterentiation, perhaps hardly to be regarded as more than a race of zebrata.
I have taken the liberty of naming it after Mrs. Baker, who has collected part of the material received from Fort Collins.
Since the above was written, I have examined the $ genitalia of canina (zebrata) and bakerce, and find apparently good distinctions.
See fig.
12.
Three species found on Solidago in Colorado, one being also found at Santa Fe, N. M. 25.
Perdita affinis Cr., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1878, p. fi'j.
c?
5 (Hab., Colorado).
Five specimens were collected by Ridings ; I have examined one of the types.
Mr. Baker sends me two 9 s taken at Fort Collins, Colo., one on Aug. 8th, the other on Aug. 15, 1895.
The latter was on Solidago canadensis.
Cressou's description is not entirely satisfactory.
The nervures and stigma (except the hyaline centre) are dark.
The clypeus in Mr. Baker's examples has two black bars ; in the type specimen examined these bars are present, though not so much developed.
The vertex and mesothorax are dark green, granulai', dull.
The clypeus is not hairy.
The wings are slightly smoky ; the marginal cell has the poststigmatal portion appreciably longer than the substiofmatal, the third discoidal is distinct.
From P. pedidis, it differs thus : (1).
Larger, niesothorax dull, granulated, markings of face and abdomen yellowish, ..... z=zajffinis 9 .
(2).
Smaller, niesothorax smooth, very shiny, markings of face and abdomen white, ..... =pectidis 9 • In its face-markings, dull mesothorax and dark nervures P. <(ffinis 9 agrees precisely with octomaculata 9 , but it differs thus : (1).
Larger, markings of abdomen chrome-yellow, wings tinged smoky or yellowish, .... =octomaculata 9 • (2).
Smaller, markings of abdomen creamy or yellowish-white, wings clear or nearly so, .
.
.
.
=^affinis 9 • I have not seen the $ of affinis.
Mr. Fox kindly sends me a sketch of the face-markings, showing the face all yellow below the level of the antennse, the yellow extending above in the median line as a small rounded projection, and at the sides obliquely from the antennal sockets to the orbital margin, where it ends at an angle of about 50".
Thus the face-markings of affinis $ differ at once from those of octomaculata $ , which has the yellow confined to clypeus and sides of face, except a couple of small spots or streaks in the place of the supraclypeal mark.
26.
Perdita sexmaculataCkll., Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1895, p. 12.
9 (Hab,, Santa Fe, N. M.).
The unique type was taken on July 25th ; it could hardly have been on Solidago, which would not, I think, be in flower at Santa Fe at that time.
I have a note in my diary that on Aug. 2, 1895, Solidago canadensis was only beginning to flower, and was visited by a few Halictus.
The form found on Solidago in Colorado represents a variety, as follows : Var.
punctata $ .
Length about 6 mm.
; abdomen with only 4 pale dots, on segments 3 and 4.
As it is possible that this will prove to be a distinct species when a good series is collected, the following additional particulars are oflered : Head and thorax greenish-black, metathorax blue-black.
Mandibles yellowish with rufous tips.
Face and mesothorax very little hairy.
Vertex and mesothorax granular, quite distinctly dark greenish.
Clypeus black, minutely granular, sparsely and irregularly punctate.
Scutellum with the granulations becoming obsolete on the shining disc.
Wings slightly smoky, nervures and stigma dark brown, stigma not hyaline in middle.
Marginal cell short,, distinctly appendiculate, the poststigmatal portion shorter than the substigmatal.
Recurrent and transverse cubital nervures broken by hyaline dots.
Third discoidal distinct.
Cubital and subdiscoidal nervures produced far beyond the cells, the latter to the margin of the wing.
Four middle tarsi rufotestaceous, as also the anterior knees, and anterior tibiie before.
The light dots on abdomen are inconspicuous, so that it appears at first sight immaculate brownblack.
Hah.
— Fort Collins, Colorado, Aug. 8, 1895, on Solidago canadensis ; one example, sent by Mr. Baker.
The head is shorter than in affinis, and the pale face-marks are wanting ; the marginal cell is also shorter.
27.
Perdita rectangulata n. sp.
Fig.
13, (face-marks).
$ .
— About 5^ mm.
long.
Head and thorax dark brassy -green , granular, dull ; metathorax bluish.
Head of ordinary shape and size.
Clypeus, supraclypeal mark, lateral face-marks, and spot midway between antennse and middle ocellus, lemon-yellow.
Between the supraclypeal mark and the frontal spot, the usual facial keel is well-developed, slightly intruding into the spot.
The supraclypeal mark is approximately rectangular, clear cut, about twice as broad as long.
The dots on the clypeus are obscure.
The lateral fiicemarks are broad at base, reaching the point on the clypeus next to the dot, gradually narrowing upward, until at a point about level with the upper edge of the antennal sockets they are squarely truncate nearly to Fig T' the orbital margin, but still are continued upward along the latter as a narrow stripe a little longer than the width at the truncation.
The clypeus is rather of the Panama-hat type, with the lateral narrow prolongation to the base of the mandibles, but the central portion (crown of the hat) is higher.
The face is nearly hairless.
Mandibles stout, simple, curved, pale yellow with dark tips.
Antennse with the scape entirely yellow ; funicle and flagellum dark brown above, yellow below.
Mesothorax moderately hairy for a Perdita.
Collar, hind border of prothorax and tubercles connecting with it, yellow.
Tegulse yellowish-hyaline.
Wings hyaline, nervures and stigma pale yellow ; marginal cell with the poststigmatal portion longest ; 3d submarginal large, narrowed more than half to the marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Legs yellow, tarsi pale testaceous ; spot on middle femora and tibiae, a large blotch on hind femora, and hind tibiae except basal third, black.
Abdomen above lemon-yellow, the last segment slightly orange.
First segment with two black spots ; rather broad black bands at hind margins of segments 1-4, intruding a little, especially at sides, on the base of the segment following, not at all notched, nor joined together.
Venter yellow without bands.
S .
— Differs as follows : Scape with a small black stripe above.
Face below antennae all yellow, owing to the space beneath the antennat being filled in by well-developed dog-ear marks, and to the supraclypeal mark being higher.
The lateral face-marks are rather obliquely (not squarely) truncate, and are scarcely at all produced along the orbital margin above the truncation.
The frontal pale spot is wanting.
The collar is not yellow, and the yellow border of prothorax is reduced to two marks, the tubercles also remaining yellow.
The nervures and stigma are dark brown, the marginal cell is longer, and the second submarginal less narrowed above.
Legs black, with the knees and anterior femora and tibiae in front, yellow.
The abdomen is black, with orange or yellow clean-cut interrupted bands on segments 1-4.
Venter dark.
The cheeks are unarmed.
Hab.
— Fort Collins, Colorado, Aug. 15, 1895, on Solidago canadensis; one 9, one $ , sent by Mr. Baker.
The S is so different from the 9 , that it may be a distinct species ; but the face-markings are exactly such as might belong to the sexes of a species, and there are several points of similarity in structure.
In a case of this sort, one decides partly by the circumstances of the capture, the two sexes having been taken from the same flowers on the same day.
Three other species from Colorado, habits unknoicn.
28.
Perdita snowii n. sp.
9 .
— Length 5* mm.
Head and thorax dark brassy-green, dull and granular, metathorax bluish and more shining.
Head fairly large, approximately round ; face very little hairy, although the mesothorax and other parts of thorax are quite hairy, the hairs being of a pale brownish color, dirty white on the under parts.
Mandibles stout, simple, yellowish with rufous ends.
Antennae dark brown, scape pale beneath.
Clypeus, and sides of face rather nar6 rowly up to level of antennae, dull pale yellowish.
The face-marks at sides are abruptly truncate at their upper end, the truncation a little oblique.
Supraclypeal and dog-ear marks wanting.
Tubercles and two spots on hind border of prothorax, pale yellowish or subtestaceous.
Wings dull hyaline, iridescent, nervures and stigma rather dark yellowish-brown, stigma centrally subhyaline.
Marginal cell large, appendiculate, poststigmatal portion longest.
Second submarginal large, narrowed more than one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Tegulse hyaline.
Legs brown-black, hairy ; anterior femora at ends, and anterior tibise, except a patch behind, yellow; anterior tarsi, middle and hind knees, and much of middle tibise, yellowish testaceous.
Hind tibise in the type specimen with a mass of dull orange pollen.
Abdomen above dull brownish-white ; first segment black at base ; segments 1-4 with broad brown-black bands on their hind halves, these bands not at all interrupted, those on segments 2-3 conspicuously thickest in the middle, those on 1-2 joined laterally by a longitudinal line ; 5th segment hairy, with a rudimentary band.
Venter brown.
Hab.
— Estes Park, Colorado, August, 1892 (F. H. Snow, No.
210).
One specimen, sent by Mr. Fox.
The abdomen may have been more brightly colored in life.
P. snotvii differs from nitidella 9 at once by its dull hairy mesothorax; from bigelovice 9 it differs in shape of lateral marks of face, as well as in abdomen.
29.
Perdita luteiceps n. sp.
$ .
— Length about 5 mm.
Cheeks unarmed.
Head moderately large, rounded, somewhat broader than long, deep yellow with dark green markings.
There is a spot close to each anterior orbital margin above the level of the antennae (as in pundosignata) , the ocelli are situated on an irregular transverse dark patch, and the occiput is dark, from it also coming a narrow dark stripe toward, but not reaching, the upper end of the eye.
Labrum and mandibles yellow.
Antennae yellow, funicle with a black patch above, joints of flagellum slightly darkened above.
Thorax dark bronzy -green, very granular, moderately dull, metathorax a bluer green.
Prothorax yellow except a transverse dark stripe.
A transverse yellow patch near hind border of mesothorax, and a little yellow along hind border of scutellura.
Pleura hairy, dark with a moderately small yellow patch.
Mesothorax hairy in front, nearly hairless behind.
Tegulse yellowish hyaline.
Wings hyaline, nervures and stigma (except its hyaline centre) very pale yellow.
Marginal cell rather long, substigmatal portion about as long as poststigniatal ; a linear appendiculate nervure longer than the marginal itself; 2d submarginal rather large, narrowed a little more than half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Legs yellow ; a blackish patch on middle femora and tibiae bebehind, hind legs blackish except knees.
Abdomen above yellow ; first segment narrowly dark at base; at the sutures of all the segments is a narrow black band, which takes the form of two transversely elongate spots on the hind margin of each segment, adjacent to a narrow entire band on anterior margin of the next.
None of the bands are united laterally.
The yellow is much more developed in proportion to the black than in martini.
Venter yellow, immaculate.
Hab.
— Glen wood Springs, Colorado, Aug. 24, 1894.
Collected by Prof. Gillette ; sent to me by Mr. Fox.
The unique specimen is unfortunately reddened by cyanide.
P. luteiceps is very near martini, but differs by the brassy-green (not blue) thorax, the vertex with a transverse yellow band above the ocelli, and in the greater development of yellow on the abdomen.
It is to be added that martini is a spring species, while luteiceps was caught in late summer.
It is curious that among the numerous late summer species of Per dita at Las Cruces, the locality of martini, none resemble it so closely as luteiceps.
30.
Perdita dubia n. sp.
^ .
— About or slightly over 5 mm.
long.
Very like the 3' of hakerce or zebrata, resembling them in the shining mesothorax, color of head and thorax, face-markings, etc.
The mesothorax is a rather yellower-green.
The supraclypeal mark is heart-shaped with the apex cut off, thus differently shaped from that of bakerce or zebrata, but nearest to zebrata.
The dog-ear marks are a little reduced, leaving a perceptible amount of dark color between them and the clypeus.
The lateral face-mark, formed as in zebrata, presents an obscure dark streak on its upper portion.
The sides of the face are more hairy than in zebrata or bakerce.
The cheeks are very hairy.
The labrum presents a conspicuous pit.
The thorax is rather more hairy than in bakerce or zebrata.
The posterior and middle femora are entirely yellow, except for the slightest indication of black on the posterior ones; otherwise the legs resemble those of bakerce.
Wings hyaline, nervures sepia-brown, stigma hyaline in middle.
The marginal cell is distinctly longer than in bakerce or zebrata, and has the poststigmatal portion longest.
Second submarginal large, narrowed one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal absent.
Abdomen above with nearly equally broad bands of yellow and black.
First segment all black ; then follow four black bands at the junction of the segments, none interrupted, nor joined at the middle or the sides.
Tip blackish.
Venter yellow, with a little black along the sutures.
Hab.
— Glenwood Springs, Colorado, Aug. 24, 1894.
Collected by Prof. Gillette, sent by Mr. Fox.
Like the last, taken at the same time, it is reddened by cyanide.
It is unfortunate that we know nothing about the habits of this species, and have only a single specimen.
It will be recognized by the regular entire abdominal bands, the coloration of the legs, etc.
A species from California, habitat unknown, S unknown.
31.
Perdita trisignata n. sp.
Fig.
14, (face-marks).
9 .
— Length about bi mm.
Head and thorax blue-black or greenish-black, the tint difficult to define.
Head of ordinary size, nearly round, somewhat depressed on vertex ; face very sparsely hairy, cheeks not so hairy as in many species.
Vertex dull and very distinctly granulose.
Middle ocellus in a distinct depression.
Mandibles stout, yellowish, with rufous tips and bases.
Clypeus brown-black, contrasting with the distinctly green face above it ; in shape high, something like a cocked-hat.
Face-markings pale lemonyellow, consisting of a longitudinal median stripe on clypeus, starting from its hind-border but not reaching its anterior border ; and the lateral marks, elongate-pyriform, with the upper end pointed and level with the sockets of the antennse.
The clypeal mark suggests that of obscurata.
Antennse dark brown.
Mesothorax only sparsely hairy, distinctly granular and punctured, the punctures sparse but distinct.
Fig 14.
Metathorax granular, very dull, duller than scutellum and postscutellum.
Pleura hairy, with white hairs.
Tubercles and two spots on hind margin of prothorax yellow.
Tegulse testaceous, subhyaline.
Wings rather small, yellowish-hyaline, nervures and stigma testaceous.
Stigma small and narrow ; marginal cell very large, poststigmatal portion noticeably longest.
Second submarginal large, narrowed more than one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Legs dark brown with the tarsi testaceous ; anterior and middle tibiae in front, and corresponding knees, dull yellow.
Abdomen above and below dark reddish-brown, without markings.
Hab.
— California, collector and exact locality unknown ; sent by Mr. Fox.
One specimen, known by the yellowish wings, abdomen Avithout markings, etc.
Two species described by F. Smith, exact locality and habits unknown.
32.
Perdita halictoides Sm., Br.
Mus.
Cat., Vol.
I, p. 128, (1853).
$ (Hab.
North America).
The description indicates that this species is similar to P. semierocea, but differs in having the nervures fuscous (in semicrocea they are colorless), the abdomen dark testaceous, and the legs rufotestaceous with the tarsi pale.
33.
Perdita bicolor (Sm.).
Macrotera bicolor Sm., Br.
Mus.
Cat., Vol.
I, p. 130, (1853).
"9" (Hab.
Mexico).
The description shows that this species is twice as large as the last, the head and thorax black and the abdomen ferruginous, more or less fuscous at base.
It might, perhaps, be confused with M. texana, but the abdomen is elongate-ovate and the mandibles are rounded at their apex, simple.
The wing nervures are ferruginous.
P. texana has a ferruginous abdomen only in the i .
As the description of this insect did not enable me to ascertain definitely whether it belonged to the group (or genus) of P. texana = megacephala and P. latior, I applied to Mr. E. A. Smith, of the British Museum, asking him to kindly examine his father's type, and report on certain points specified.
He handed my letter to Lt. Col. Bingham, who very kindly examined the typical specimen, and reported as follows : " 1.
The type is a ^ , not a 9 .
It has the two basal segments fuscous, the 3d and following segments ferruginous, with the apical one, which is very small and somewhat hidden by the fimbria of pale hairs on the posterior margin of the 6th segment, black. "
2.
The mandibles are deeply grooved on the outside from near the base to the apex, which, however, does not appear to be bifid.
"3.
The figure of the marginal cell given in Part I, pi.
V, f. 22, of Smith's Catalogue, is fairly good, the cell may be a little more obliquely truncate at apex, perhaps. "
4.
From Cresson's description of 31. megacephala $ , Smith's type of bicolor difiers as noted above in the basal segments of the abdomeu being fuscous, and in the posterior tibise being clothed with a ' a thin scopa ' of pale yellow pubescence, as Smith described, which has now faded to a dirty white."
While I am not yet certain, I am decidedly inclined to suppose that we may after all recognize Macrotera as a valid genus, with these species, M. bicolor Sm., 31. texana Cr., and 3/.
latior (Ckll.).
A species from Nevada, yellow loith black markings, habits unknown^ 9 unknown.
34.
Perdita cephalotes (Cr.)
Cr., Cat.
Hym., 1887, p. 296.
Macrotera cephalotes Cr., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1878, p. 71. cT (Hab.
Nevada).
Described from a single specimen, collected by Mr. Hy.
Edwards, It has a very large head, after the manner of grandiceps and crassiceps, but the markings are very like those of punctosignata.
Two specimens were obtained by the Death Valley Expedition in the Panamint Mountains.
(N. Amer.
Fauna, No.
7, 1893, p. 246).
Tivo species found on mesquite in New Mexico.
35.
Perdita punctosignata Ckll., Suppt.
to Psyche, Sept., 1895, p. 6. cf .
(Hab.
Las Cruces, N. M.).
Two specimens are known, both from mesquite; one taken by Miss J. Casad, the other by Mr. Alfred M. Holt.
The latter specimen has a large yellow patch on dorsum of metathorax, instead of two spots.
The eyes are pale coffee-color Avith a purplish tint.
36.
Perdita exclamans (Ckll.).
Perdita 7iitidella var.
exclamans Ckll., Suppl.
to Psyche, Sept., 1895, p. 5.
^.
(Hab.
Las Cruces, N. M.).
This and the last are spring species, found in May.
P. nitidella^ which frequents Bigelovia in the late summer and early autumn, is unquestionably distinct from exelamans.
'Of the latter we know four specimens, 3^,1?.
Prof. Townsend took a $ some years ago ; this is the specimen formerly reported in error as nitklella.
Miss Casad found the type specimen, and the other two were obtained at the same locality by Mr. A. M. Holt in 1895, a <?
on a young Cottonwood tree, not in flower, and near some mesquite bushes, May 9th, and a 9 on mesquite.
May 13th.
The 9 may be described as follows : 9 .
— Larger, about 6 mm.
long, Antennre dark brown above^ yellow beneath.
Clypeus cocked-hat shape, flattened above, very pale yellowish with the usual two dark dots.
Supraclypeal yellow mark well-developed, produced above into a narrow stripe widening into a large frontal patch, so that the whole has the shape of an hour-glass.
The frontal patch is separated by a moderately wide interval from the anterior ocellus.
Dog-ear marks present but small, their tips about level with the top of the clypeus.
Lateral ftice-marks receding from the clypeus close to the dark dots, leaving a wide band of dark color between them and the upper part of the clypeus, etc.
; at the level of the antennal sockets they are suddenly narrowed, ascending the orbital margin as a thin band, rather suddenly widening opposite the middle of the frontal patch, and terminating roundly and abruptly at the level of the hind margin of the anterior ocellus.
Lower part of cheeks pale yellow.
Prothorax and narrow lateral borders of mesothorax yellowPleura entirely dark.
Metathorax blue, rugulose, contrasting with the scutellum, postscutellum and mesothorax, which are brassygreenish, very smooth, shining, polished, the scutellum with distinct sparse punctures.
The vertex is green, but rugulose and punctured.
Legs as in $ , but hind tibia and tarsus all brown.
Wings with 3d discoidal cell distinct ; 2d submargiual narrowed less than half to marginal.
Abdomen -above yellow ; markings dark sepia, first segment dark at base, connecting with a blotch on each side, hind margins of segments 1-4 with dark bands, connecting laterally with a spot on proximal margins of 3 and 4, but these spots lacking on fifth segment, while the bands on 1 and 2 are broadly confluent along lateral margin.
Vertex yellow, immaculate.
This is very different from the 9 of nitidella.
Two species found in spring in the Mesilla Valley, N. M., habits unknown, 9 unknown.
37.
Perdita martini Ckll., Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1895, p. 14. c?.
(Hab.
Las Cruees, N. M.).
The unique specimen was taken on April 26th.
38.
Perdita hirsuta n. sp.
$ .
— Length about 5 mm.
Head and thorax blue, granular, unusually hairy with white hairs, but the disc of metathorax, and yellow face below antennre, bare.
Head of ordinary size, rounded, a little broader than long; cheeks unarmed.
Face just above the level of the antennae conspicuously hairy, the hairs arranged so as to appear to radiate from the antennse.
Antennre black above, yellow beneath, the scape with only a black blotch above.
Mandibles very straight, very pale yellowish with rufescent tips.
Clypeus rather cocked-hat shape, flattened above, with the sides very rapidly descending and the prolongation to the base of mandibles very narrow.
Face below antennae all lemon-yellow, except the usual clypeal dots.
Above the antennre the yellow extends only as a small projection in the median line, and a little along the orbits, so that the upper angle of the yellow with the orbital margin is about 50° instead of a right angle.
Lower half of the cheeks with a yellow band along orbital margin.
Collar and hind margin of prothorax connecting with tubercles but failing in the middle line, yellow.
Tegulse hyaline.
Wings hyaline, nervures sepia-brown, stigma margined with brown.
Marginal cell moderately long, appendiculate, the poststigmatal portion about as long as substigmatal.
Second submarginal not narrowing quite one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal fairly distinct.
Legs yellow, anterior and middle femora and tibice with a black patch behind, hind femora and tibiae black with a yellow stripe in front, hind tarsi blackish.
Abdomen above with about equally broad bands of black and yellow.
First segment basally black.
The five dark bands are not interrupted, nor joined medially or laterally.
Sixth segment with three dark spots.
Venter yellow, immaculate.
Hah.
— Las Cruces, N. M., on the College Farm, May 2d, 1895.
One specimen collected by A, M. Holt.
Two species found on willow in the Mesilla Valley, N. M. 39.
Perdita numerata Ckll., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1895, p. 296.
?.
(Hab.
Las Cruces, N. M.).
One specimen is known, taken on May 2d, associated with P. salicis.
It resembles most the 9 of bigelovice, but the stigma is entirely dark and the clypeus has two broad black bars.
The marginal cell is short, appendiculate ; the 2d submarginal is large, very broad below, narrowed considerably more than half to marginal.
40.
Perdita salicis n. sp.
9 .
— Length 5 mm.
Head and thorax shining dark green ; head bluish-green, mesothorax and scutellum brassy-green, metathorax dark blue.
Head rounded, of ordinary size; vertex minutely roughened, cheeks only sparsely hairy ; clypeus except two black dots, the area between clypeus and antennae, and sides of face narrowly terminating in an acute point about half the length of the scape above the level of insertion of antennae, dull pale yellow.
In the median line the pale color is sometimes carried upward as a narrow stripe about two-thirds of the distance between insertion of antennae and middle ocellus.
Mandibles simple, unusually stout, blunt at tips, dull pale yellowish with rufous ends.
Mouth parts only moderately elongated.
Antennae black above, yellow beneath, the yellow predominating on scape, the black on flagellum.
Mesothorax very shiny, sparsely punctured.
Prothorax including tubercles either entirely yellow, or the anterior and posterior borders broadly yellow, leaving a narrow transverse dark band.
Legs entirely yellow, except hind tibiae and tarsi, which are brownish.
The middle tibiae sometimes show a brown patch.
Tegulae yellowish hyaline.
Wings hyaline, costal nervure and margin of stigma dark brown, tiie other nervures practically colorless.
Marginal cell rather obliquely truncate, the substigmatal portion about as long as poststigmatal ; 2d submarginal not or hardly narrowed one-half to marginal, the degree of narrowing variable ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Abdomen above black, with five very regular yellow bands, the first slightly interrupted.
The black and yellow are nearly of equal width, so that the abdomen might be said to be alternately black and yellow-banded.
Venter entirely yellow with an orange tinge.
$ .
— Length 4 mm.
Cheeks unarmed.
More pubescent, antennae more yellow.
Mandibles pointed but not slender, the shining rufous tips very distinctly separated from the yellowish portion.
Face all pale yellow up to level of antennae, the yellow extending further upward, in the median line as a narrow mark of the shape of a spear-head, scarcely the length of the scape, and at the sides about the length of the scape along orbital margiq, but very obliquely truncate, and notched on its inner side below the truncation.
Prothorax with more black.
Mesothorax and scutellum bluer.
Hind femora with a dark brown patch near the end.
Nervures brown ; 3d discoidal very indistinct.
Abdomen above with only four bands; these narrower, and divided or deeply notched in middle.
Sometimes the abdomen has only three bands.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., in the town, numerous at flowers of narrow-leaved willow and another species of willow, May 2, May 3, May 5, 1895.
They are associated on the willows with Halictus, Andrena and Prosopis.
The small ■■species of the Pedis and Cladothrix.
41.
Perdita cladothricis n. sp.
9 .
— Length 3i-3S mm.
Head and thorax shining, very dark peneous, face entirely dark, clypeus and metathorax black.
Abdomen dark sepia-brown, with a transversely elongate mark or band of white at base of second segment.
Legs dark brown, the anterior knees and the tarsi, pale or whitish.
Antennae dark brown.
Vertex very minutely sculptured.
The usual pale hairs are very little developed anywhere, except at sides of end of abdomen ; the postscutellum and the sides of the metathorax are bare and shining.
Wings hyaline, beautifully iridescent, nervures fuscous, stigma pale brown, 3d discoidal cell distinct, marginal with the substigmatal portion longer than the poststigmatal, 1st submarginal broad, 2d submarginal small and triangular, narrowing to a j^oint at junction with marginal.
S. — Length 2j-3 mm.
Cheeks unarmed.
IDiffers from the female at once by the foce, which (with the mandibles except their reddish tips) is entirely ivory-wliite below level of antennse, the white moreover extending a short distance above the antennse, in the form of a narrow line between them, and a broad prolongation on each side between the antennse and the orbits, not quite as long as the scape, and ending in an abrupt truncation.
The antennse are mainly white beneath.
The tubercles, and the border of prothorax adjacent and in front, and a portion of the anterior part of the pleura, are white.
The coxse, a considerable portion of the anterior and middle femora, and part of the anterior tarsi, are white.
The abdomen, in addition to the white band of the 9 , usually shows a longer and narrower white band at base of 3d segment.
Venter dirty whitish, becoming brown at base and apex.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., very abundant on Cladothrix cryptantha (det.
E. O. Wooton), Sept. 15, 1895.
On this occasion I took 6 ^,12 9 ; I do not think the males were really less numerous, but owing to their small size and incessant activity they were less easily caught than the females.
The earliest date I have for this species is a ^ taken on Cladothrix, associated with a new Oxyhelus, in the beginning of September.
Stray examples Avill be found at times on other plants.
On September 17th, four 9 were obtained by sweeping from Pedis papposa, but Cladothrix was growing within a few feet of the Pedis.
On September 2od, a 9 Avas obtained from Bigelovia wrlghtii.
On September 25th, a few 9 were caught on Gutierrezia sarothrce v. microcephala.
42.
Perdita pectidis n. sp.
9 • — Head and thorax black, vertex greenish.
Head of moderate size, rounded, somewhat depressed on vertex.
Sides of clypeus and sides of face adjacent to orbital margin with sparse but large and deep punctures.
Vertex minutely rugulose, with sparse small punctures.
Cheeks less hairy than usual.
Mandibles rufescent, whitish at base, with dark tips.
Clypeus with three rather large white marks, the central one longitudinally oval.
Sides of face with an irregularly subtriangular white patch, narrowing to a point above, about the upper level of the sockets of the antennae.
Antennae with the scape black, the flagellum sepia-brown.
Mesothorax smooth, sparsely punctured, very shiny.
Metathorax blue-black.
Collar, tubercles, and a couple of small spots on hind border of prothorax, white.
Tegulae hyaline subtestaceous.
Femora black, knees whitish.
Tibiae and tarsi brown ; anterior tibiae in front, and a stripe on middle tibiae pale yellow.
Wings smoky, nervures and stigma sepia-brown.
Poststigmatal portion of marginal cell hardly as long as substigmatal ; 2d submarginal narrowed more than half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Abdomen above very dark brown, segments 1-4 each with an oblique white stripe on each side.
Pygidial area dark subrufescent.
Venter dark brown.
S. — Wings clear.
Metathorax quite blue.
Mandibles white with rufescent tips.
White markings of face as in cladothricis $ .
Pale marks of abdomen reduced, sometimes to 4 or 5 small spots, which are then pale yellowish.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., in numbers on Pedis papposa, Sept. 17, 1895.
It is closely allied to cladothricis, but differs at once by the face of the 9 iiot being all dark, and the different abdominal markings.
On September 20th, I took four 9 P. pectidis from flowers of Trihulus maximus, and two, also 9 > from flowers of Wedelia incarnata.
With the P. pectidis on Pedis papposa were a few P. fallax, 9 which I at first supposed to be a variety of it.
P. fallax is, however, distinguished by its greenish head and thorax (or at least the mesothorax more or less greenish), scape pale yellowish below or with a yellow stripe, face-markings tinged distinctly yellowish, clypeus pale, sometimes with two black bars, diverging below, and the usual black dots, wings clear, abdominal markings inclined to be smaller, or wanting on 4th segment.
43.
Perdita biparticeps n. sp.
S .
— Length SJ mm.
Head and thorax very dark blue; thorax practically black, except the metathorax.
Head large in comparison with the small thorax, rounded, somewhat broader than long, cheeks unarmed.
Face below antennae, labrum and mandibles except their slightly rufescent tips, lemon-yellow.
The yellow extends above the antennae a short distance (and equally) in the median line and at the sides, almost exactly as in the $ of affinu, the limit of the lateral extension marked by a small pit close to the ocular margin, where the yellow forms an angle of about 55°.
Cheeks yellow below, the yellow extending furthest upward along the orbital margin.
Antennae sepia above, yellow below, the scape all yellow except end above.
Vertex granular.
Mandibles simjDle.
Mesothorax shining but noticeably sculptured, the surface liueolate rather than granular.
The mesothorax, as also the face, is very free from hairs ; and even on the pleura and sides of metathorax there are comparatively few.
The upper part of the cheeks, however, exhibits conspicuous white hairs.
Tegulae hyaline ; wings slightly smoky, nervures and stigma sepiabrown, the latter pallid in middle.
Marginal cell rather large, appendiculate, substigmatal portion about as long as poststigmatal ; 2d submarginal rather large, narrowed one-half to marginal; 3d discoidal distinct.
Legs yellow, anterior and middle femora and tibiae with a dark brown patch behind ; posterior femora brown with yellow ends and an obscure yellow stripe in front, posterior tibiae brown with the proximal fourth pallid, tarsi whitish.
Abdomen above pale sepia-brown, shining, with rather obscure and suffused yellow markings, namely a patch on disc of 1st segment, and bands at bases of segments 2-4, the last two of these shorter and emarginate posteriorly.
Venter dull yellow, brownish toward tip.
Hub.
— Las Cruces, N. M., on Pedis paj^posa, Sept. 17, 1895, one example.
Differs from rectangulata by its small size and shiny mesothorax, as well as the markings of the abdomen.
The pleura has not the yellow patch seen in maculipes.
Small species found on Gutierrezia, 9 unknown.
44.
Perdita austini Ckll., Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1895, p. 13. cf • (Hab., Las Cruces, N. M.).
The type was taken in September.
The cheeks are unarmed, the mandibles simple, the clypeus of the Panama-hat type, with the crown higher, more like a Puritan's hat.
The mesothorax is shiny, it and the face nearly bare; but the cheeks and pleura, as well as the thorax beneath generally, with conspicuous white hairs.
The marginal cell is rather long, but the substigmatal portion is noticeably longer than the poststigmatal ; the second submarginal is narrowed nearly to a point above.
I took one specimen at Albuquerque, N. M., on Gutierrezia sarothrce, Aug. 15, 1895.
At Las Cruces it is quite rare so far as observed.
Mr. C. Rhodes took one on Bigelovia wrightii, toward the end of September.
I took it on Gutierrezia sarothrce var.
microcephala on Sept. 25th.
The 9 is unknown.
45.
Perdita gutierrezise n. sp.
or variety.
S .
— About 4 mm.
long, size and appearance of nitidella S .
Cheeks unarmed, but projecting at base of mandibles so as to simulate a small tooth.
Face entirely yellow up to nearly the length of scape above level of insertion of antennte, the yellow enclosing a black spot on each side at its extreme upper border close to margin of eye.
On each side, midway between the eye and the median line, the yellow is depressed by a slight invasion of the blue, which forms thereat an angle considerably greater than a right angle.
Lower half of cheeks broadly yellow, pleura with a yellow patch, which is wanting in nitidella; 2d submarginal cell more narrowed above than in nitidella ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Veins dark brown.
The rest much as in nitidella.
Hah.
— Albuquerque, N. M., one specimen on Gutierrezia sarothrce, August 15th.
This is certainly distinct from nitidella, but it may be only a variety of bigelovice ; see below under macidipes.
46.
Perdita tarda n. sp.
S .
— Length 42 mm.
Head and thorax dark blue.
Head moderately large, distinctly broader than long, cheeks unarmed, vertex rugulose and punctured.
Face very free from hairs, except sides near antennie, where they are rather conspicuous ; cheeks thickly clothed with long white hairs.
Antennse dark brown above, yellowish beneath, the scape all yellow beneath and at base above.
Mandibles very little curved, yellow, rufescent at ends.
Clypeus approximately cocked-hat shaped, the lateral prolongations broad.
Face below antennse all lemon-yellow except a notch of the dark color distad of each dog-ear mark, and not quite so large as it.
The supraclypeal mark is roundly emarginate above.
The clypeus has the usual two dark dots.
Along the orbital margins the yellow ascends about half the length of the scape above the level of the antennse, and ends in an oblique truncation ; this upward band of yellow is a little wider than the scape.
The cheeks are entirely dark.
Mesothorax smooth and shining, though minutely lineolately sculptured, nearly black ; mesothorax finely sculptured, very distinctly blue.
Pleura all dark.
Tubercles yellowish.
Tegulse pale brown ; wings slightly smoky, nervures and stigma sepia-brown, the latter pale in middle.
Marginal cell large, appendiculate, poststigmatal portion longest; 2d submarginal narroAved less than half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Transverse cubital nervures more or less broken by hyaline dots.
Legs black, all the knees, anterior and middle tibiae in front, and base of hind tibiiB> yellow ; tarsi pale brownish, the anterior ones yellowish.
Abdomen above piceous, w'ith narrow whitish bands, interrupted in the middle, rather obscurely indicated on disc of 1st segment, and at base of segments 2 and 3.
The markings are in the form of narrow straight stripes, not oblique ones as in some species.
Venter dark brown.
Hah.
— Las Cruces, N. M., one specimen on Gutierrezia sarothrce var.
microcephala, Sept. 23, 1895.
Allied to P. biparticeps, from which it differs at once in the face-markings, the abdomen, etc.
From austlni it differs radically in the face-markings.
Small species found on Bigelovia wrightii, having the abdomen banded.
47.
Perdita nitidella Ckll., Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1895, p. 16.
(f.
(Hab., Las Cruces, N. M.).
On Bigelovia wrightii at Las Cruces, several males on September 2d, one 9 on September 11, 1895.
The latter is herewith described : 9 .
— Length 5 mm.
Face-markings creamy-white.
Clypeus white with two black dots, the anterior margin narrowly brown, and traces of the two longitudinal bars in brown.
Sides of face with an irregularly subtriangular white mark, the upper obliquely truncate end of which is level with the insertion of the autennie.
Cheeks quite densely white-hairy.
Prothorax with less pale marking, the tubercles not connected with yellow of margin of prothorax.
Nervures dark brown ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Legs about as in austini, but anterior femora partly black in front, and middle femora with less black.
Abdomen banded as in ^ , but the banding yellowish-white.
48.
Perdita bigeloviae n. ?p.
$.
— About 5 mm.
long.
Resembles nitldella $, but larger; face-markings as in gutierrezice $ , but the black spots close to eyes above are not enclosed, but only produce a notch in the yellow ; and the yellow is in the middle-line rather more produced upward, not reaching the ocelkis, but terminating some distance before it in an emarginate truncation.
Venation as in nitidella, with 3d discoidal cell very indistinct.
Pleura largely yellow, the amount of yellow on it variable.
Legs and abdomen as in nitidella.
Cheeks unarmed.
(1 S% examined.)
9 .
— Length 6mm.
Similar to nitidella 9 , the pale marks of fiice rather inclining to pinkish-brown ; and the marks of sides of face distinctly notched on inner side, and sometimes also at end.
Sometimes there are two pale spots above the clypeus ; 3d discoidal cell distinct.
Abdomen brown-black, with creamy-white bands on segments 1-4, that on 1 interrupted ; 5 with a rudimentary linear broken band, or frequently with a distinct broad band.
Hah.
— Albuquerque, N. M., several of both sexes between the old and new towns, on Bigelovia ivrightii, Aug. 16, 1895.
The males of this lot were unfortunately reddened by the cyanide ; but the females, collected in the same bottle at the same time, were not so affected.
On September 11th, a specimen of each sex was taken on Bigelovia ivrightii close to the Agricultural College at Las Cruces.
The 9 is very similar to that of P. mmierata.
49.
Perdita maculipes n.
sp., or variety.
S • — A small form, 4 mm.
long, similar to nitidella, anterior and middle femora all yellow, anterior and middle tibise each with a black patch.
From nitidella it is readily separated, thus : (1).
Median and lateral upward extensions of yellow on face irregularly truncate ; anterior and middle tibiie with a black patch ; pleura with a large yellow patch ; bands of abdomen united at sides ; lower part of cheeks broadly yellow, ^^ maculipes S .
(2).
Median and lateral upward extensions of yellow on face not truncate, or lateral ones notched and subtruncate ; anterior and middle tibise all yellow ; pleura without a large yellow patch ; bauds of abdomen not united (or only the first two or three united) at sides; lower part of cheeks very narrowly yellow =niiidella S .
From biparticeps it is thus distinguished : (1).
Size smaller, abdomen suffused ; pleura without yellow patch, == biparticeps $ .
(2).
Size larger, abdomen not suffused ; pleura with a large yellow patch : median face-marks more developed above antennae, = maculipes S .
It is very much like gutierrezice, but differs from that in its longer marginal cell, the abdominal bands joined laterally, and the upper margin of the yellow of face much more distinctly trifid, besides the marks on the tibia?.
It resembles fjutierrezicB in the broadly yellow lower part of cheeks, and the yellow blotch on pleura.
From small examples of $ bigelovice it is distinguished by the abdominal bands being united at the sides, the fiice-markings as already mentioned, and the tibiae with dark marks — though the middle tibite of bigelovice sometimes show a small spot.
The marginal cell is as in bigelovice.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., one example on Big loviawrightii, Sept. 5, 1895.
(A.M.Holt.)
The above form allies itself very closely with bigelovice and gutierrezice, which have the cheeks more or less broadly yellow and the yellow patch on the pleura.
The more one studies these forms the more apparent does it become that nitidellay with its dark pleura and narrow yellow line only on the cheeks, is distinct ; while bigelovice, gutierrezice and maculipes run each other so close that they seem to be varieties of one species.
Yet I leave them as they stand, not because I think that they are what would be called good species, but rather to draw attention to the divergence which may represent an early stage in species-formation.
It will be noted that mactdipes, while retaining the essential characters of bigelovice, departs in its face-markings toward the condition of nitidella.
50.
Perdita pellucida n. sp.
$ .
— Length about 5 mm.
Head very dark blue, thorax black except the dark blue metathorax.
Head of ordinary size, rounded, broader than long; cheeks unarmed, mandibles moderately stout, simple.
Vertex granular.
Face with rather conspicuous but very scattered hairs, a tuft of erect hairs behind the ocelli being most noticeable, Clieeks with long white hairs.
Face below antennae semitransparent dull white, the clypeus prominent and shining.
The upper margin of the white is not very clearly defined, but it ends abruptly in the median line at the lower level of the antennal sockets, while at the sides of the face it ascends rather broadly not quite the length of the scape above the level of the autennie.
Thus the pale color of the face is distributed as in obsctirata $ , except that it perhaps ascends a little higher at the sides.
(In bigelovice and nitidella it ascends al)ove the level of the autennre in the median line).
Clypeus narrowly produced at sides to bases of mandibles, but higher than in the Panama-hat type.
Mandibles white with rufous tips.
Antennse pale testaceous ; flagellum, funicle and end of scape becoming dark brown above.
Lower half of cheeks narrowly white along orbital margin, thus recalling the cheek-marking of nitidella.
Thorax with sparse but rather conspicuous hairs.
Mesothorax shining, appearing slightly bluish in some lights, very finely lineolately sculptured, median groove distinct.
Metathorax microscopically reticulate.
Part of collar, and whole hind margin of prothorax, connecting with tubercles, but very narrowly interrupted in median line, white.
The margin of the prothorax below the tubercles is broadly white.
Pleura hairy, dark except a white spot about as big as a tubercle, anteriorly, Tegulfe hyaline.
Wings hyaline ; costal nervure, margin of stigma, and marginal nervure, sepia-brown, the other nervures colorless.
Marginal cell unusually long, poststigmatal portion considerably the longest, minutely appendiculate.
(In nitidella and higelovice the marginal is conspicuously shorter.)'
Second submarginal narrowed more than one-half to marginal; 3d discoidal very weak.
Four anterior legs yellowish-white, tarsi becoming testaceous middle tiliia?
with a dark brown line behind.
Hind legs with the basal two-thirds of coxa^ above, most of distal half of femora above and behind, and tibise except anterior margin, dark brown; the tarsi brownish.
Abdomen above with nearly equally broad bands of dull white (becoming pale brownish toward tip) and dark sepia-brown ; these bands not interrupted, nor united at sides or in the middle, nor notched.
First segment all brown-black except the hind margin narrowly.
The dark bands are four in number, the sixth segment 7 having no band.
Venter pale yellowish, slightly orange toward the tip.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, IST.
M., one specimen on Bigelovia ivrightil, close to the Agricultural College, Sept. 12, 1895.
(Ckll.
5,100).
The type specimen may be a little immature, but it is clearly distinct.
Small species found on Bigelovia tvrightii,the abdomen not banded.
51.
Perdita fallax n.
sjj., or race.
9 .
— 5 mm.
long.
Head and thorax dark green, dullish, rather hairy but the hairs short, face below antennae bare and shining.
Head of ordinary size, rounded, not broader than long, occiput and cheeks well fringed with short hairs, vertex granular.
Clypeus moderately high, flat above, with the sides very narrowly produced.
Face-markings yellowish-white ; clypeus all pale except the two usual dots, and two dots near the upper margin, representing the ends of the bars seen in some species, or the bars may be even fairly well-developed.
Supraclypeal mark absent, though there may be a pair of scarcely perceptible pale specks close to upper border of clypeus.
Dog-ear marks absent.
Pale lateral marks at first rapidly narrowing, and then gradually, ending in a narrow truncation at the level of the antennte.
Cheeks dark, mandibles rufous at tips.
Autennre dark brown, yellow beneath, the sutures of the flagellar joints dark.
Mesothorax minutely lineolately sculptured.
Pleura all dark.
Tubercles and two spots on hind border of prothorax white.
Teguhe hyaline subtestaceous.
Wings hyaline, nervures and margin of stigma sepia-brown.
Marginal cell appendiculate, poststigmatal portion a little the longest.
Second submarginal large, narrowed a little more than one-half to marginal ; od discoidal distinct.
Legs brown-black ; anterior knees and anterior tibia?
in front pale primrose-yellow.
Middle and hind knees whitish.
Al)domen rather broad and flat ; above piceous, with an oblique white mark on each side of segments 1-3, those on 1 very narrow and closely approximating in the median line.
Tip orange, or to be more precise, the pygidium is orange with the border colorless and hyaline, the tip emargiuate, as is also the case in affinis.
Venter piceous.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., on Bigelovia ivrightii, Sept. 23, 1895, two specimens (Ckll.).
This is, in all respects, very closely allied to P. affinis, but it is smaller, the abdominal markings are white and the abdomen is not so conspicuously marked.
Yet in all essential particulars it agrees so nearly with affinis that it might well be deemed a southern race of it.
The clypeal markings vary as in affinls.
On Sept. 20th, I took one example of P.Jallax on flowers of Verbesina encelioides, and on Sept. 17th, three on Pedis 2)apposa.
52.
Perdita phymatae Ckll., Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1895, p. 12.
$.
(Hab., Las Cruees N. M.).
In the original description the legs are described as dark brown without markings, but in the normal form of the species the knees are all pallid and the anterior tibia?
are yellow in front, as in fallax.
The original type specimen, now in Coll.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, was examined for me by Mr. Fox, who reports that the yellow is represented by pale testaceous.
The mesothorax is minutely sculptured, though shining.
The second subraarginal cell is large, and narrows more than half to marginal; 3d discoidal distinct.
The clypeus is strongly punctured, and frequently presents a small yellow median spot.
Glossa not hairy.
This species was common on Bigelovia xvrightii at Las Cruees, Sept. 23, 1895, but the $ has not been observed.
It was also taken on B. wrightii on Sept. 2d, together with P. nitidella, P. hdeola, Halidus stultus and Prosopis.
On Sept. 25th, it was taken on Gutlerrezia sarothrce var.
inicrocejihala, together with P. semicrocea, etc.
53.
Perdita aeneifrons n. sp.
9 .
— Length 5 mm.
Head dark green with the front very distinctly brassy, and the clypeus black ; thorax pitch black, with the metathorax dark green.
Abdomen black, shiny, without bands or spots, venter dark subolivaceous brown.
Head rounded, of ordinary size, not broader than long, vertex minutely rugulose and very sparsely punctured.
Clypeus shining prominent, high, but not produced laterally to bases of mandibles, very sparsely punctured on its lower portion.
Mandibles pale yellow at base, rufescent otherwise, with a distinct tooth on inner side.
Face all dark, medially free from hairs, laterally with short hairs.
Cheeks moderately hairy.
Antennae dark brown.
Mesothorax shining, perfectly smooth, bare ; except its anterior border, which presents short hairs and is very feebly sculptured, and even presents in some lights a vague greenish tinge.
Scutellum bare, postscuteilum with a thin fringe of white hairs.
Metathorax granular.
Prothorax, even including tubercules, wholly dark.
(In phymakc the tubercles are more or less pallid.)
Tegulse hyaline.
Wings milky hyaline, nervures and stigma almost colorless, the latter yellowish.
(In its pallid wings it resembles semicrocea.)
Stigma large ; marginal cell short, substigmatal portion longest, 2d submarginal narrowed about one-half to marginal ; 3d discoidal distinct.
Legs black, knees pallid, anterior tibise in front, anterior tarsi and an obscure stripe on middle tibire, yellow.
Tip of abdomen rounded or subtruncate, not emarginate.
(It is emarginate in fallax.)
Hub.
— Las Cruces, N. M., on Bigelovia wrightii, Sept. 23, 1895, in some numbers with P. phymatce.
Its superficial resemblance to phymatce is such that when catching the specimens I thought I had only one species, but a careful examination shows striking differences in the head, thorax and wings.
The $ was not found.
54.
Perdita semicrocea Ckll., Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1895, p. 13.
$.
(Hab., Las Cruces, N. M.).
In 1895 this species has been taken commonly at Las Cruces ; on Bigelovia ^vrightii, Sept. 2d and Sept. 12th ; on Solidago canadensis, Sept. 3d ; on Giitierrezia sarothrce var microcephala, Sept. 25th.
The original specimen was taken in October.
P. semicrocea is less strictly limited to one flower than most of the genus, being taken rather freely on all the plants mentioned — perhaps most freely on the Solidago.
The ^ differs in having the face below the level of the antennae entirely yellowish-white, except the clypeal dots.
The pale color does not extend further upward, but is slightly notched on each side of the antennse, the outer margin of the notch being a little higher than the termination of the pale color on the orbital margin.
The cheeks are unarmed.
The narrow tip of the abdomen is very narrowly truncate, not em*arginate.
The anterior and middle legs are yellow, except a dark patch on the femora behind.
66.
Perdita luteola Ckll., Ent.
News, 1894, p. 328.
S(Hab., Las Cruces, N. M.).
Very abundant on Bigelovia wrightii, Sept. 2d, etc.
On Sept. 23d, I caught several on Gutierrezia sarothroe var.
microcephala.
I have found them on no other flowers, except that once I saw one in the net after sweeping over Pedis papposa.
The 9 differs in having a black line in place of a black spot before the eyes, being really the groove usually seen in that situation, wholly black ; a similar black line placed longitudinally on each side of the anterior half of the second segment of the abdomen ; and the antennpe brown-black or dark brown above.
The ^ has the cheeks unarmed.
When left too long in a damp cyanide bottle the $ turns a brilliant crimson all over.
A species found in Neiv Mexico, habits and exact locality unhiown.
56.
Perdita nuda n. sp, 9 .
— Length 7i mm.
Head and thorax green, legs and abdomen dark chocolate-brown.
The body in general is remarkably free from hairs ; the face is bare but the occiput and cheeks present scattered short hairs; the thorax is practically bare, even including the pleura and sides of metathorax ; the tip of the abdomen has a fairly dense fringe of hairs ; the tibise and tarsi are quite hairy, the hairs of a dull whitish color.
Head of ordinary size, a little broader than long, dark green, the face very flat, vertex granular, clypeus punctured.
There are no face-markings except an oblong dull yellow spot on the clypeus.
Basal ))ortion of mandibles yellow with a large dark spot.
Glossa not hairy.
Antennre brown-black ; flagellum whitish, scape and funicle testaceous beneath.
Thorax dark olive-green, metathorax bluish ; the whole rather dull and finely sculptured.
The pleura is quite shiny, but still sculptured.
There are no pale marks on the thorax, but the tubercles, quite prominent, are dark brown.
Teguloe hyaline with an opaque spot in front.
Wings milky-hyaline, nervures and stigma dark brown, the latter pallid in middle.
Marginal cell with the poststigmatal portion as long or a little longer than the substigmatal.
Second submarginal large, narrowed more than one-half to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Anterior knees, and anterior tibise in front, pale yellow.
Abdomen above and below dark brown, without any pale markings.
Tip eraarginate.
Hab.
— New Mexico, one specimen sent by Mr. Fox.
Locality, «tc., unknown.
It resembles P. phymatce, but is much larger than that or asteris.
P. asteris has a hairy raesothorax ; phymatce has a nude mesothorax, but is much more shiny as well as being so much smaller.
P. semiccerulea has a hairy mesothorax.
A species found on Aster eanescens.
57.
Perdita asteris u. sp.
9 .
— Length about or hardly 6 mm.
Head very dark blue, thorax very dark green, metatborax dark blue.
Both bead and thorax are very hairy, with short hairs ; the disc of metatborax bare, and the disc of clypeus seeming bare, but seen, when sideways, to have a fine down.
Head rather large, rounded, about as broad as long.
Vertex very finely granular, punctate ; sides of clypeus punctate.
Mandibles with the basal two-thirds very broad, whitish, becoming rufesceut ; the terminal third black, comparatively slender, coming to a point.
Antennie dark brown above,^ yellowish beneath.
Pale markings of fi\ce yellowishwhite, restricted to clypeus and sides of face.
Clypeus high, pale with the usual dots^ but with a dark blotch on each side above, so that the yellowishwhite color rapidly narrows, but instead of coming to a point,^ broadens a little to an abrupt truncation on the upper clypeal margin.
Lateral marks of face broadly triangular, the inner angle of the triangle being opposite to the point on the clypeus where the pale color suddenly narrows, and the upper angle (of about 30°) on a level with the antennal sockets.
Thorax with a very narrow yellow line on hind border of prothorax, and a very small yellow stripe on tubercles.
Mesothorax dullish, granular.
Tegulffi pale, testaceous ; wings milky-hyaline, nervures and stigma very pale yellow, nearly colorless, the latter centrally hyaline.
Marginal cell moderately long and narrow, with its poststigmatal portion a little the longer.
Second submarginal rather large,^ narrowed more than half to marginal, being not far from an equilateral triangle.
Third discoidal distinct.
Legs pubescent, black ; the tarsi all white with a testaceous or yellowish tinge; hind margin of first joint of hind tarsi blackish, anterior knees and anterior tibia^ in front pale yellow.
Abdomen above shining piceous without markings, the hind margins of the segments a little rufescent.
Venter dark brown.
* Mut.
9 .
— Clypeus all yellowish-white except the usual dots and two ill-defined brown spots above.
A semilunar dull yellowish supraclypeal mark.
One specimen.
Hah.
— Las Cruces, N. M., Sept. 19, 1895, four specimens on flowers of Aster canescens var.
viscosus.
Prof. E. O. Wooton took one on the same flowers as late as the middle of October.
A species found on Senecio doughmi.
58.
Perdita senecionis n. sp.
9 .
— Length about 7 mm.
Head and thorax dark, dull olivegreen, even including the metathorax ; conspicuously granular.
Head a little longer than broad ; face practically hairless, cheeks and occiput with short' whitish hairs.
Vertex depressed between ocelli and orbits.
Mandibles stout, simple, gradually tapering, blunt at tips, pale yellowish with the apical half rufescent.
Antennae very dark brown, dull pale yellowish beneath.
Face-markings cream color, very distinct, restricted to clypeus and side's of face.
Clypeus high, flattened above, prominent, cream color with broad black bars.
Supraclypeal region dark, elevated, convex.
Lateral face-marks club-shaped, rapidly narrowing and continuing upward, to a subtruncate termination on a level with the antennal sockets.
Thorax nearly hairless, as in P. nuda ; the greater part of tubercles, and a broadly triangular patch on each side of hind margin of prothorax, shining pale yellow.
(In nuda these pale markings are lacking.)
Tegulse hyaline, with a kidney-shaped pale yellow opaque patch.
AVings slightly smoky, uervures and stigma dark brown, the latter pallid in center.
Marginal cell rather long, appendiculate, its poststigmatal portion a little the longest.
Second siibmarginal large, subtriangular, narrowed more than half to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Legs black, knees ])allid, anterior tarsi testaceous, anterior tibise yellow in front, middle tibiae with a yellow stripe in front.
Abdomen above black, with eight creamy-white marks, just like those of affinis.
Venter piceous.
Mut.
9 .
— The abdominal pale marks reduced to six, the last two failing, one specimen.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., six examples on flowers of Senecio douglasii, collected by Prof. E. O. Wooton, Oct. 9, 1895.
This interesting species is extremely close to affinis, and would be taken for it upon superficial examination.
It differs, however, by the somewhat longer head, the narrower lateral face marks, the larger size, and especially by the glossa presenting only a small patch of hairs near its tij), whereas in affinis it is strongly hairy for a considerable distance.
P. odoinaculata has the glossa also more hairy than in senecionis.
A small species found on Chrysopsis villosa.
59.
Perdita vespertilio n. sp.
S .
— Length about 4 mm.
Head and thorax shining black.
Cheeks unarmed.
Head rather large, especially.
in comparison with the small thorax, when seen from the front almost precisely circular.
Front quite hairy, with white hairs ; cheeks hairy.
Antenna dark brown above, pale yellowish beneath.
Clypeus rather cockedhat-shaped.
Pale markings of face cream color, confined to clypeus and sides of face, with, of course, the labrum and basal portion of mandibles.
Seen all together, they suggest the head of one of the long-eared bats, whence the specific name.
The darkened upper portion of the labrum represents the bat's mouth.
Clypeus creamcolor, with the usual dots obscui'e.
Lateral face-marks broadly triangular, the inner angle opposite the clypeal dots, the upper one (of al)out 45°) on a level with the antennal sockets.
Thorax shining, smooth, tolerably hairy.
Prothorax, including tubercles, dark, the tubercles brownish.
Teguloe hyaline ; wings hyaline, iridescent, nervures colorless, stigma margined with very pale yellowish.
JNIarginal cell fairly long and narrow, the poststigmatal portion a little the longer.
Second submarginal subtriaugular, narrowed a little more than half to marginal.
Third discoidal absent.
Legs dark brown with the tarsi brownish-white ; anterior tibiae yellowish except a suftused brownish patch behind, middle tibiae pallid in front.
Abdomen short and broad, above dark brown without pale markings, but the distal margins of the segments more or less pale.
Venter brown, Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., Oct. 5, 1895, one specimen on Chrysopsis villosa.
No more could be seen.
The locality is about a mile southeast of the Agricultural College.
This little species has some resemblance to californica and its allies, but a glance at the face will distinguish it.
Three -yjecies ivith larr/e heads, from New Mexico, found on Compositce.
60.
Perdita grandiceps n. sp.
$.
— Length about 5 mm.
Form stout; head quadrate, extremely large, larger than the thorax, eyes nari'ow, cheeks armed with blunt teeth.
Face flattened, very sparsely and inconspicuously hirsute, cheeks hairy beneath.
Color of head very dark bottlegreen ; vertex granular, it and front looking almost silky, cheeks much more shiny.
Mandibles stout, curved, scimitar-shaped, base pale yellowish, end rufescent, blackish on inner side.
Antennre blackish above, yellowish-brown beneath ; scape piceous, with a light yellowish spot at base in front.
Clypeus rather low, anterior margin not produced into spines.
Face-markings dull sulphur-yellow.
Clypeus with a yellow longitudinal band, uniting with the broadly yellow anterior portion — or one might say, clypeus yellow with a pair of large triangular dark patches, the triangles having one side coincident with the hind margin.
The extreme anterior edge of the clypeus is bordered with a black line.
The supraclypeal mark is represented by a pair of squarish yellow patches ; the dog-ear marks, on each side of these, are not much larger.
The lateral yellow face-marks would form nearly equilateral triangles, but that the innermost angle is narrowly produced.
The upper angle scarcely reaches the level of the antennal sockets.
Thorax not very shiny, the surface granular.
No pale markings.
Prothorax with prominent shoulders.
Color of thorax black with a slight metallic tinge, becoming distinctly brassy-green on anterior half of mesothorax ; metathorax blue-black.
Pleura and sides of metathorax with white hairs ; mesothorax with sparse hairs.
Tegul?e hyaline subtestaceous.
Wings milky-hyaline, nervures (except the dark costal nervure) practically colorless ; stigma very pale yellowish.
jNIarginal cell obliquely truncate, substigmatal portion a little the longer.
Second subnjarginal narrowed hardly one-half to marginal, third discoidal excessively weak.
Legs shining black, with white hairs.
Anterior coxoe with a very noticeable tuft of white hairs.
Tarsi becoming brownish.
Anterior knees, and anterior tibiie in front, yellow.
Abdomen oval, shining piceous without light markings.
Margins of the segments a little rufescent.
Venter brown.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., on Solidago canadensis, 8ept.
3, 1895, one specimen (Ckll., 4,746).
It was associated on the flowers with Melecta maculata, Anthophora maculifrons, Perdita semicrocea, Colietes, Heriades, Prosojns 2 spp., Oxyhelus 2 spp., Fhilanthus and Odynerxis.
61.
Perdita crassiceps n. sp.
Fig.
15 (head.)
S .
— 6 mm.
long.
Smooth and shiny ; head and thorax so dark green as to seem black, metathorax very dark blue.
Head quadrate, extremely large, eyes comparatively small and narrow.
Vertex minutely granular, but nevertheless shining, with a transverse ridge behind the ocelli.
The punctuation is sparse.
Cheeks unarmed ; mandibles rather long, scimitar-shaped, blunt at tips, pale yellowish becoming rufescent distally, the tips blackish.
Antennae dark brown above, yellow beneath.
Clypeus wholly pale yellowish, except the usual black dots, and a pair of obscure suffused brownish spots adjacent to hind margin.
Supraclypeal mark wanting.
Dog-ear marks present.
Lateral face-marks white, broad, subquadrate, the lower border occupied by a black line, the upper border passing somewhat obliquely from the point on orbital margin opposite the antennal sockets, to slightly below the upper end of the dog-ear marks.
Thorax smooth and shining, mesothorax sparsely punctured ; hairs on thorax above sparse, brownish, those on pleura white.
No light markings except that the tubercles are pale yellow with a dark spot, and the collar shows a little yellow.
Tegulfe pale testaceous ; wings hyaline, nervures Fig.
15. jaractically colorless, stigma very pale yellowish.
Marginal cell rather long and narrow, its poststigmatal and substigmatal portions about equal.
Second submarginal subtriangular, narrowed more than half to marginal.
Third discoidal very weak.
Legs black with the knees and tarsi testaceous ; anterior and middle tibiae testaceous in front.
Abdomen above shining dark brown, the hind margins of the segments a little pale; no light marks.
Venter light brown.
Hab.
— Albuquerque, N. M., June 30, 1895, one specimen on a yellow-flowered species of Corapositpe not identified.
(Ckll., 3,253.)
62.
Perdita laticeps n. sp.
S .
— 5i mm.
long.
This greatly resembles cfrassiceps, in fact I had regarded them as the same until a close examination was made when writing the description of the latter.
P. laticeps diflTers from crassiceps as follows : The head is a little larger, the face is much more hairy, the sides of the cheeks are covered with short hairs (whereas in crassiceps they are bare and shining), the clypeus is distinctly panama-hatshaped, the supraclypeal mark is represented by a narrow transverse line, adjacent to the upper border of the clypeus, the dog-ear marks are absent, the antennae are dark brown above and below, the mandibles are stouter, the anterior and middle tibiae are not testaceous in front, the hind tibipe are more hairy, the abdomen is considerably shorter and broader, with the hind margins of the segments broadly hyaline.
The tip of the abdomen is narrowly but abruptly truncate.
There is no transverse ridge behind the ocelli,^ but this area shows strong punctures, which are wanting in crassiceps.
The wings are as in crassiceps.
Hah.
— Las Cruces, N. M., one collected by Mr. A. M. Holt on Verbesina encelioides, Sept., 1895.
This species is allied to wterrupta and californica.
Species found on Verbesina encelioides in the Mesllla Valley, N. M. 63.
Perdita beata n. sp.
9 .
— Length 8-8* mm.
Entirely bright canary-yellow ; except the flagellum blackish above, the usual clypeal dots, an obscure black line round the lower part of the dog-ear marks, especially on the inner side ; a black band, not quite as long as the scape, before each orbit ; a short black line on each side of second abdominal segment ; a dark shining pit on the hind part of the raetathorax ; and the lower (ventral) half of the pleura black.
Wings hyaline, nervures.and stigma very pale yellow.
Marginal cell large, poststigmatal portion longest.
Second submarginal narrowing hardly onehalf to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Hind tibiae and tarsi very hairy.
Mesothorax, scutellum and postscutellum with short dense erect yellow hairs.
Ocelli dark.
Ends of mandibles dark, the mandibles being quite abruptly bent before the dark portion.
Terminal portion of glossa not hairy.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., on flowers of Verbesina encelioides.
The first was taken in September, 1895, by Mr. A. M. Holt.
On Sept, 20th I took one, and again another on Sept. 28th.
This lovely insect is a sort of gigantic P. luteola ; but the mesothorax of luteola is bare, while that of beata is very bristly ; luteola also does not show the black on under part of pleura.
64.
Perdi?a perpulchra n. sp.
9 .
— Length 82-9 mm.
Head and thorax bronzy-green, densely covered (except the smooth disc of metathorax and middle of face) with short erect pale yellowish hairs, v/hich become longer on the the pleura and cheeks beneath, and sparse on the vertex.
Head of ordinary size, subtriangular or broadly subcordiform ; vertex dullish, granular ; clypeus approximately cocked-hat-shaped.
The conspicuous white hairs on face are arranged so as to seem to radiate from the antennae ; but the disc of the clypeus, and the area above it and between the antennae, are bare.
Mandibles abruptly bent before their dark ends.
End of glossa with a conspicuous brush of hairs.
Antennae yellow ; flagellum, funicle and end of scape black above.
Clypeus (except the usual pair of dots) and lateral facemarks yellowish-white.
No supraclypeal or dog-ear marks.
Lateral pale marks subtriangular, the inner angle next to clypeal dot, the upper one (of about 30°) on a level with the antennal sockets.
Mesothorax dullish, finely punctured as well as very bristly.
Disc of metathorax bare and shining, with very fine striatulate sculpture.
Prothorax (including tubercles) yellowish-white, except a transverse dark line widening centrally into a large dark patch.
Tegulte hyaline.
Wings hyaline, nervures and stigma very pale yellowish.
Stigma small ; marginal cell long, its poststigmatal part much the longest.
Second submarginal large, subtriangular, narrowed considerably more than half to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct.
Legs yellowish-white, posterior tibia very hairy ; anterior femora below, except at distal end, a patch on anterior tibire behind, middle femora below, a patch on middle tibiae behind, hind femora with a band above and an oblique streak near base within, hind tibire, except proximal fourth and middle and hind tarsi, black.
Abdomen above white with black bands.
First segment with two black spots in front, and a large broad black triangle, having for its base the whole distal margin of the segment.
Segments 2-4 each with a distal black band, which is swollen in front sublaterally, and behind laterally, the swelling or patch in the latter case being on the next segment.
Tip of abdomen dark brown, the pygidial area smooth and shining, though microscopically subpunctate, extreme tip rather broadly truncate, subemarginate.
Venter mostly black, with a white spot on hind margin of each segment, and the sides largely whitish.
Mut.
9 • — The dark triangle on first abdominal segment with a small central light triangle.
Abdominal bands broader, and continuously invading the segment following.
Hah.
— Las Cruces, N. M., on flowers of Yerbesina encelioides, one taken by Mr. A. M. Holt in the fall of 1895, and one by myself on Oct. 5th.
A very beautiful and distinct species.
It differs at once from albovittata hy \ts larger size, non-hairy clypeus, lateral facemarkings narrowing above, etc.
65.
Perdita albovittata Ckll., Proc.
Phila.
Acad., 1S95, p. 15.
$.
(Hab., San Augustine, N. M.).
The two specimens taken at San Augustine on Aug. 29th are both females, not ^ and 9 , as formerly stated.
Miss Mae Gilmore took a 9 in the Mesilla Valley, close to the Agricultural College, Sept. 23d, on Verbesina encelioides.
♦ On Oct. 4th, at the same locality, Mr. C. Rhodes was so fortunate as to find a $ on Verbesina encelioides.
The glossa of the 9 shows two brushes of hairs, separated by an interval ; that of the $ is bare.
The S is only about 4i mm.
long ( $ 5i), and differs at once by the abdomen, which is short and broad, black, with the margins of the segments appearing broadly whitish because hyaline.
The sides of the first three segments show obscure whitish marks — all that is left of the bands of the 9 .
The venter resembles the upi^er surface.
The tip is rufous, produced, narrowly truncate.
The face-markings, differently from most species, are as in the 9 .
The antennse are entirely brown-black.
Cheeks unarmed.
There is a singularly close resemblance between the $ of albovittata and laticeps, so that the idea suggests itself that laticeps may be a dimorphic large-headed $ of albovittata.
But this could not be taken as proven without positive evidence, or at least some analogous case in the genus to guide us.
Cresson has referred to a ^ specimen of texana (megacephala) in which the head was unusually large, but it may have been a different species.
66.
Perdita vagans n. sp.
$ .
— Length 4-2 mm.
Head and thorax shining, blue-black, with sparse hairs which are quite long behind the ocelli.
Head moderately large, rather broader than long, cheeks unarmed, vertex shiny though feebly microscopically granular ; clypeus panama-hatshaped, with the crown rather high.
Cheeks wholly dark ; labrum and mandibles pale yellowish.
Clypeus pale yellow with the usual black dots.
Dog-ear and supraclypeal marks wanting, though the former are represented by hardly noticeable pallid specks.
Lateral pale yellow face-marks subquadrate, nearly the shape of the mainsail of a schooner, though shorter, the upper outer angle (of about 50°) about on a level with the antennal sockets.
Antennae sepiabrown above, yellowish beneath.
Thorax smooth and shining.
Tubercles, and a couple of small spots on hind margin of prothorax pale yellow.
Pleura not very hairy.
Tegulse hyaline.
Wings hyaline; stigma pale yellow, nervures colorless.
Marginal cell rather long, its poststigmatal portion a little the longest.
Second submarginal nearly triangular, narrowed more than half to marginal.
Third discoidal absent.
All the femora, and the hind tibite, black with the ends subtestaceous yellowish.
Anterior and middle tibi?e yellowish with a dark patch behind.
Tarsi all pale yellowish testaceous.
i Abdomen rather broad, dark sepia-brown, without light markings, the distal margins of the segments more or less pallid.
Venter pale brown.
Tip pale testaceous.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., one on Verhesina encelioides, Sept. 28, 1895.
I had considered the possibility that this might be the $ of asteris, but it differs too much from it for this to be likely, I think.
Group of P. alhipennis.
67.
Perdita sparsa Fox, Proc.
Cal.
Ac.
Sci., 1893, p. 16. cf ?
(Hab., Margarita and Magdalena Islands, L.
Cal.)
Collected by Mr. Haines in March, being, therefore, distinct from the other members of the group by its vernal appearance.
I have examined a 9 from Magdalena I., March, 1889, one of the types.
It is very near to albipeiinis, and the difference of punctuation, mentioned by Mr. Fox, is not a very satisfactory character.
It is, however, readily distinguished thus : P. alhipennis 9 • Nervures colorless.
Stigma not so margined.
Median mark broadening above to a T-shape.
P. sparsa 9 • Nervures dark.
Stigma margined with brown.
Size a little smaller.
Median mark of clypeus broad, lance-head-shaped, going to a point above.
Three yellow bands on abdomen, first entire, the other two with a linear interruption.
68.
Perdita verbesinae n. sp.
5 .
— Length 7 mm.
Head and thorax green, abdomen black, wings milky-hyaline.
Head rounded, moderately small, unusually pubescent, especially on occiput and cheeks, the hairs on occiput pale fulvous, those on face and cheeks white.
Face and vertex brassy-green, vertex rather strongly rugulose, and sparsely punctured.
Mandibles rufescent, yellowish at base, simple but strongly elbowed ; clypeus black, punctured, with a longitudinal central yellow line, not always produced to the margins, and a more or less developed yellow patch on each side at anterior margin.
Sides of face below, adjacent to clypeus, with a yellow patch.
These facemarkings are of essentially the same pattern as those of alhipennis.
Antenna3 blackish, a yellowish spot at base of scape beneath, and flagellum yellowish below.
Mouth-parts much elongated, glossa almost naked, or with the terminal half hairy.
Thorax shining brassy-green, pubescent as in albipenms, and with the yellow also more or less developed on collar and hind border of prothorax, but not on tubercles, except in the form of a very small spot, which may be absent.
Metathorax dark green, sometimes a little bluish.
Legs dark, pubescent, the hairs on posterior tibiae especially long and dense, as in albipennis ; tips of anterior femora, upper twothirds of anterior tibise in front, yellow.
Tegulse yellowish-hyaline.
Stigma very pale yellowish, nervures almost colorless, the portion of marginal cell beyond stigma conspicuously longer than that below it; second submarginal narrowed about one-half to marginal, third discoidal distinct.
Abdomen above black, nearly naked, except the last segment, Avhich is densely fringed with white hairs.
Fourth segment with two yellow spots, absent in specimens lacking the face-markings (mut.
nigrior).
Pygidial area conspicuously rufous.
Venter dark.
Mut.
9 ) nigrior.
— Stigma colorless, pale marks of head and thorax absent, pubescence of mesothorax white instead of yellowisli, vertex a slightly bluer green, metathorax tinged with blue above, last joint of antennie with a slight hook, abdomen without yellow spots.
(Ckll., 4,908.)
Mut.
9 , intermedia.
— Stigma pale yellow ; vertex rather more brassy, lateral pale marks of clypeus absent.
Abdomen with segments 2-4 each with a pair of yellow marks, those on 2 and 3 transversely elongate, those on 4 larger and rounder.
First taken by C. Rhodes on Verbesina.
Sometimes the spots on segment 2 are lacking.
The lateral pale marks of clypeus may also be more or less developed.
$.
— Head larger and broader, cheeks strongly bulging below but not spined ; antenna?
with the scape and funicle black above and yellow beneath, flagellum orange with the first two joints black or blackish above.
Lower corners of face, and clypeus, yellow, the clypeus with two longitudinal black marks, and a black dot on the outside of each, after the manner of P. numerata.
In some examples the clypeus is black with a median longitudinal yellow line, and the lower corners broadly yellow, the yellow sometimes enclosing a black spot near its upper limit.
(Ckll., 4,906, 5,054.)
Prothorax without any yellow, except on collar above.
Tarsi mostly pale, in addition to the pale leg-markings of the 9 .
Ends of middle tibite also pale.
Abdomen without the two spots of the $ , but the distal margins of the segments hyaline, with narrow dull yellowish bands, broadly emarginate on each side proximally.
Mut.
$ , macxdata.
— Hind margin of prothorax with two small yellow marks.
(One on Verbesina encelioides, Sept.
28th.)
Mut.
$ , cyanella.
— Size small.
Metathorax blue.
(One on Heliatithus annuiis, Sept. 21st).
This agrees with true $ verbesince in the dull front, orange flagellura, absence of spots on hind border of prothorax, etc.
Hab.
— Las Cruces, N. M., abundant on flowers of Verbesina encelioides, Sept. 11th to 20th of October.
On Sept. 28th, after wet weather, they were freely copulating on the flowers.
One had been caught hy a Phymata.
On Sept. 21st, a 9 of mut.
intermedia and the S mut.
cyanella were taken on Helianthus annuus.
69.
Perdita albipennis Or.. Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1868, p. 386.
$ (Hab., New Mexico, Colorado).
<?.
Perdita hyalina Cr., Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1878, p. 68.
(Hab., Colorado).
The original type of albipennis was taken in 1867 by Dr. Samuel Lewis, on a journey from Fort Wallace, Colo., to Fort Craig, N. M. The types of hyalina were taken by Messrs. Ridings and Morrison.
In the latter part of July, 1895, I took the typical form, in both sexes, on flowers of UeliaMJms annuus at La Junta, Colorado.
The males have the flagellum mostly orange, spots on hind margin of prothorax, front shiny.
P. hyalina is apparently a slight variety.
Var.
helianthi.
$ .
— Differs from verbesince $ by its comparatively shining front, blackish flagellum, and two spots on hind border of prothorax.
Differs from albijiennis $ by having the yellow marking on abdomen as in verbesince, and the dark flagellum.
9 .
— Abdomen striped as in albipennis, from which it is hardly to be distinguished.
In helianthi the stigma, when well colored, is lemon-yellow, while in albipennis it becomes pale orange, and is quite large.
From verbesince, the 9 helianthi differs by its wellstriped abdomen, and the head is a little larger.
The var.
helianthi is occasionally taken (at least the 9 s) on Verbesina encelioides (Oct. 5th, etc.
), at Las Cruces, N. M., but it is the usual form in that locality on Helianthus annuus (Sept. 22d, etc.).
Of 46 $ s from Verbesina, 43 are verbesince and 3 helianthi.
The The earliest date for helianthi is July 29, 1893.
(CklL, 339, a ^ .)
On Aug. 26, 1893, I took both sexes at Juarez, Mexico ; these were recorded as alhipennis and hyalina in Ann.
Mag.
N.
Hist., Feb., 1895, p. 206.
Mut.
^ , pasonis.
— Length 8J mm.
Resembles verbesince in its dull front and the absence of spots on hind margin of prothorax.
Resembles typical albipennis by the absence of yellow on the abdomen.
Resembles helianthi by the dark flagellum which is black above, dull testaceous below.
Maxillary palpi with the last four joints practically equal.
Front and mesothorax olive-green, cheeks and metathorax greenish-blue or prussian-green, in strong contrast.
Tip of abdomen unusually broad.
Marginal cell somewhat longer than usual.
I took one specimen of this at El Paso, Texas, Aug. 25, 1893.
I was a little perplexed whether to refer it to verbesinoi or albipennis.
Mr. Fox named it hyalina Cr., and indeed it must come very near the form so named by Cresson, which had the dark flagellum, though the head and thorax were bluish-green.
Var.
$ lingualis.
Length about 10 mm.
Abdomen above with yellow bands on segments 2-4, the first two narrowly interrupted in the middle, the last two failing some distance before the lateral margin.
Metathorax dark blue, head dark blue-green, mesothorax and scutellum dark olive-green.
Front moderately shiny.
Hind border of prothorax marked with yellow.
Stigma inclining to pale orange.
Second subraarginal cell not narrowed half to marginal.
Flagellum dark.
Clypeus yellow with two black blotches above, sufficient to mark out the yellow T. The above characters are probably, in part, individual ones, but the glossa is very conspicuously hairy all along, thus differing from that of helianthi, albipennis type, and verbesince, in which it is comparatively naked, except the terminal half in some examples oi verbesince.
When using a compound microscope to more accurately determine the character of the glossa, I was surprised to find also a difference in the maxillary palpi.
In lingualis the last two joints of these palpi are short and of equal length, while the two before them are long and also equal.
In helianthi the last joint is long, the two before it short and equal, and the two before them long and equal to one another and to the last.
The var.
lingualis is founded on a single 9 from Fort Collins, Colorado, Aug. 8,'1895.
(Baker.)
8 The known range of P. albipen7iis is greatly extended by a 9 sent to me by Mr. Fox, caught in Nowlin Co., South Dakota.
The name of the collector does not appear on the label.
The clypeus is marked practically as in lingualis, but the glossa is not hairy.
Stigma pale orange.
Second submarginal cell narrowed fully onehalf to marginal.
Since the above was written, Mr. Fox has examined for me Cresson's types of hyalina ( <?
), and reports that one has the abdominal marks as in verbesince and helianthi ; but the other must be held to be the true type, as Cresson does not mention the marks.
The form above, described as pasonis, has only a very small clypeal mark, so it is in all respects very similar to what we must call albipennis var.
hyalina (Cr.).
Many years ago, P. albipennis was taken by Belfrage in Bosque Co., Texas.
(Cresson, Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, 1872, p.
261.)
This is a little east of the 98th meridian.
70.
Perdita lepachidis n.
sp., or race.
$.
— Length about 6 J mm.
Resembles the $ of albipemiis, hut head and thorax brassy-green, not at all bluish-green.
Vertex quite densely and deeply punctured.
Clypeal markings reduced to a yellow median line and yellow lower corners, occasionally the whole anterior margin of clypeus yellow, connecting with the longitudinal line.
Mandibles simple.
Metathorax rather inclined to bluish.
Wings and abdomen as in ^ albipennis.
The flagelkim is orange, the two spots on the hind margin of prothorax are feebly developed, the front is fairly shiny, not nearly so dull as in verbesince.
Hab.
— On flowers of Lepachys tagetes (James), Santa Fe, N. M., July 30, 1895, and Socorro, N. M., June29th.
I do not know how late it flies, but the Lepachys is over sooner than the Verbesina or Helianthus.
The characters of this species or race are slight, but constant in the specimens examined.
The 9 is unfortunately unknown.
Appe7idix : Species received since the above paper was ivritten.
Perdita utahensis n. sp.
9 .
— Length 8 mm.
Head dark blue-green, thorax brassy-green ; Metathorax green, not blue, but so dark as to be almost black.
Head of ordinary size, about as broad as long ; face and cheeks hairy, the hairs dull white, those on occiput gray.
Front strongly granular, with moderately close punctures ; facial ridge with a median linear groove, extending down on the ridge as far as the level of the anteunal sockets, Clypeus cocked-hat-shaped, but rounded and broad above, and unusually high, entirely pale yellow except the usual two dots.
Lateral pale yellow face-marks triangular, the inner angle opposite the clypeal dot, the upper angle (of about 40°) level with the antennal sockets, on the orbital margin.
The inner side of the triangle is straight or nearly so, not notched as in bigelovloi.
Supraclypeal and dog-ear marks absent.
Mandibles simple, with the basal three-fifths very broad and pale yellowish ; and the terminal two-fifths strongly bent inward, dark rufous-brown, slender, coming to a point.
Antennae with the scape all yellow, funicle yellow with a brown blotch above ; flagellum brown, dark above, pale below, first joint all yellow below.
Thorax, including mesothorax and pleura, quite hairy, disc of metathorax bare.
The abundant short bristles on the mesothorax have a yellowish tinge.
Pleura all dark.
Collar and hind border of prothorax broadly, connecting with tubercles, pale yellow.
The prothorax is thus practically all yellow except a large wedge-shaped portion on each side.
Mesothorax shiny.
Tegulse hyaline, with a yellowish opaque subreniform mark.
AVings hyaline, nervures and stigma pale brown, the latter not centrally hyaline.
Marginal cell long and rather narrow, squarely truncate, its poststigmatal portion much the longest.
Second submarginal large, not narrowed half to marginal.
Third discoidal distinct, rather narrower below than is usual.
Legs hairy ; femora yellow, middle femora with a little brown at base below.
Tibiae and tarsi pale brown ; anterior tibiae yellow in front and with a yellow streak behind.
Abdomen above with about equally broad dull yellow and black bands, the latter five in number, but the last not so well-defined.
First segment with an oblique black mark on each side before the band.
The first baud touches on each side a black longitudinal groove such as is seen on the side of the second segment in luteola 9 .
The second and third bands present a small lobe on each side below.
The fourth band below has a median projecting tongue.
Venter pale dull yellow, broadly mottled with brown medially.
Hab.
— Southwest Utah, collected by Mr. Palm, sent by Mr. C. F. Baker, one specimen.
Type in coll.
Baker.
This, the first Perdita recorded from Utah, belongs near albipennis, etc., but will be readily I'ecognized by the characters I have italicized.
THE MOLTING OF BIEDS WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE PLUMAGES OF THE SMALLER LAND BIRDS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA.
BY WITHER STONE.
The lack of definite information regarding the seasonal plumages of our birds which characterizes most of the works on North American ornithology, as well as the scarcity of recorded facts relative to the methods by Avhich the plumages are assumed, must have impressed all who have had occasion to seek for information upon these subjects.
This is unquestionably due, in a great measure, to the scarcity, in collections, of molting specimens and adults in fall or winter plumage.
Molting specimens are only to be obtained during July and August in this latitude, and collecting at this season is not only difficult on account of the retiring habits of the birds during the period of molt, but also exceedingly unpleasant, being the height of our hot season.
Furthermore, professional collectors have not been encouraged to collect molting birds since the most marketable specimens are full-plumaged spring birds.
To this cause, too, is probably due the great scarcity of North American birds from the tropics, showing the progress and nature of the early spring molt, since collectors visiting these regions have paid more attention to securing fine specimens of the native species.
In view of the state of our knowledge of molts and seasonal plumages and the scattered nature of the literature bearing upon the subject, I have prepared the following pages, more with the hope of attracting attention to this branch of ornithological investigation, than of assuming to present a finished treatise.
For some years past I have been paying special attention to the acquisition of a series of molting specimens of our eastern North America birds and my own collection, together with that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, furnishes a considerable amount of such material.
I have also examined a large number of specimens in the United States National Museum, and additional series have been kindly loaned by Mr. Robert Ridgway of the above institution, Mr. Wm.
Brewster, of Cambridge, Mass., and Dr. J.
A. Allen of the American Museum of Natural Hisfory.
In spite of this, however, I have frequently been confronted with questions which can only be settled by the acquisition of additional material.
Owing to this lack of specimens, I have no doubt that alterations will have to be made in my accounts of the molt in several species, in the light of future investigation.
I nevertheless think it desirable to publish, at once, such information as I have collected, as a basis for future work.
In the first part of this paper will be found a general account of the methods of plumage change, based upon my studies, and all statements will be understood to refer only to the groups here under consideration.
As no general paper on molting has aj)peared recently, it seemed best to treat the subject at some length in this connection ; but it must be understood that I do not claim originality for all the statements given below as many of the facts have long been known.
I have, however, made no statements that have not seemed to be verified by my own investigations.
The second part consists of brief accounts of the molts and seasonal plumages of most of the smaller land birds of eastern North America, from the Cuckoos through the Passeres in the order of the American Ornithologists' Union Check List.
The Raptores, Columbse, Gallinse and all the Water Birds have been omitted for want of sufficient material for their proper study, though they will probably exhibit still more interesting facts than those furnished by the groups here under consideration.
The difficulties that present themselves in a study of this nature are many.
Chief among them is the impossibility of telling the age of most of the specimens upon which we must base our investigation.
The study of live birds is, of course, out of the question, and even were it possible the results would not prove satisfactory, as it has been shown that plumage changes in captive birds are often abnormal.
Thrown back upon a study of prepared skins, our only method of telling what year in the life of the bird a certain plumage represents, is by having a sufficient series of specimens, taken while actually in the molt, to connect the various known plumages.
Such series are at present very hard to obtain, as has already been stated, and we are, therefore, often forced to judge from comparison of series taken before and after the molts, which is of course much less satisfactory.
Many specimens, however, which are apparently not molting, often show traces of an old plumage which has just been lost or a new one just appearing, when the feathers are carefully raised on various parts of the body ; and much of ray information has been gained from such specimens.
It is generally considered, and in many cases actually proven, that the most perfect and brilliantly plumaged individuals of a species are the oldest, or at least are birds of several years of age, and I have followed this idea in treating of the species in the latter part of the present paper.
It is, however, quite likely that certain individuals, whether from excessive vitality or some other cause, assume the adult dress at an earlier period in their life than others and that certain other individuals never attain the highest development of plumage coloration exhibited by the species.
The scarcity of adult birds in winter plumage (i. e. the dress assumed at the end of the breeding season) has already been mentioned.
The fact that the number of these birds taken in September and October is often so remarkably small as compared with the birds of the year, seems to me good evidence that they not only start on their southward migration sooner than the young, but that they make a more continuous journey with fewer and shorter stops.
The diti'erence in the numbers of these birds taken by autumn collectors is real and not imaginary.
Mr. C. W, Beckham in 1887 called especial attention to it\ giving the above explanation.
He stated that between Sept. 1 and Nov. 22, 1886, he collected 367 birds of which 348 were birds of the year, the determination of age being based upon examination of the skeleton.
In the fall series that I have examined, where the difference between the bird of the year and adult was clearly indicated by the plumage, I find the proportion of old birds very small ; but I think that careful collecting carried on through August will result in the discovery of a large number of adult birds present at that time, which leave before the usual fall collecting begins.
As a result of the studies given in detail farther on, the following generalizations may be made : 1.
The annual molt at the close of the breeding season is a physiological necessity and is common to all birds.
II.
The spring molt and striking changes of plumage effected by abrasion are not physiological necessities and their extent is dependent upon the height of development of coloration in the adult plumage, and does not necessarily bear any relation to the systematic relationships of the species.
It naturally follows that closely related species may differ materially in the number and extent of their molts, and that 1 Auk, 1887, p. 79. males and females of the same species differ greatly in this respect when the nuptial plumage of the adult male is highly developed as compared with that of the female or with its own winter plumage.
III.
The amount of change effected in the plumage at any particular molt varies considerably in different individuals of the same species and sex.
IV.
Some species which have a well marked spring molt in their first and second yeard may discontinue it afterwards, when the adult plumage has once been acquired.
And, on the other hand, some individuals may continue to molt in the spring, while otliers of the same species cease to do so.
V. The remiges are molted less frequently than any other part of the plumage.
As a rule, they are only renewed at the annual molt (exception Dolichonyx).
VI.
Variability in the order of molt in the remiges and presence or absence of molt in the flight feathers at the end of the first summer are generally family characters i. e., Ceryle differs from any other species treated of in this paper in the order of molt in the primaries.
All Picidse and all Icterid?e except Icterus, (and Dolichonyx'^) molt the flight feathers with the rest of the first plumage.
None of the Oscines except IcteridjB (as above), some (all?)
Hirundinidse, Otocoris and Cardinalis molt the flight feathers at this time.
Some other exceptions to the above statements no doubt occur, but they cover the vast majority of cases.
In connection with the second statement attention should be called to Ammodramus sandwichensis savanna which has practically the same plumage at all seasons, but which has an extensive molt of the body plumage in spring.
3Ielospiza fasciata, which closely resembles it in plumage at all seasons, has scarcely a trace of spring molt.
Avwwdramus caudacntus is the only other species that shows any considerable spring molt, and in which the sexes are not strikingly different.
As stated above, the number and extent of the molts do not of necessity bear any relation to the systematic position of the species.
The Friugillidse include species which exhibit the simplest series of molts as well as some examples of the most complicated molting known among the Passeres.
The species of certain families do show practical uniformity in their molts, but in such cases there is also uniformity in the relative development of plumage of the sexes.
The Icterid^e exhibit the greatest number of exceptions to the general rules of molting and are more complicated in their molts than any other family.
In most families complicated molting is the excejJtion, in the Icteridse it is the rule.
ORDER OF MOLT.
The molt is occasioned by the growth of new feathers from the old papillse, each new feather forcing out the old one on its tip.
The point of attachment, however, is so brittle that the old feather is almost immediately broken off, but in young birds molting from the first plumage into their winter plumage, the old feathers are not infrequently found still attached to the tips of the new ones.
A young Meadow Lark, Sturnella magna, in my collection shows this very nicely, and Mr. William Palmer mentions a young Hooded Warbler, Sylvania mitrata, in which the down of the nestling was to be seen at the tip of the first-plumage feather while it was in turn attached to the new feather of the winter plumage (PI.
IV, figs, 5, 6).
The feathers are, of course, not all shed at once, but the new feathers on certain parts of the body have nearly completed their growth before those on the other parts make their appearance.
The first body-feathers to appear, in our passerine birds at least, are those of the abdominal tracts, forming a conspicuous V-shaped patch against the old plumage of the rest of the lower surfoce.
Almost coincident with these appear the feathers of the interscapulary region and shortly afterward those of the throat and crown ; there is, however, a good deal of variation in the order of appearance of the other body feathers (in fact, of all, after the development of the abdominal tracts) in different sj^ecies and also, I think, a good deal of individual variation.
This will be seen in the table on page 115.
In the molting of the wings, the feathers are shed one or two at a time, and symmetrically from the two wings.
The first of the quill feathers to molt are the two innermost primaries which are probably shed at almost the same time, as they are at nearly all stages of about the same size (PI.
IV, figs.
1, 2 and 3).
Following these the primaries are shed at short intervals, one at a time, finishing with the outermost.
The only exceptions that I have noticed to this order are in the Belted Kingfisher, Ceryle alcyon, and the Snow Bunting, Plectrophenax nivalis.
2 The Auk, 1894, p. 287.
The Kingfisher is strikingly different from any other bird examined, in that the first wing feather molted is the fourth primary followed successively by the third, second and first (PI.
V, fig.
3).
Three specimens taken at Sicamous, British Columbia, July 18, 1892> show precisely the same order of molt and are in almost the same stage.
How the molt proceeds after the first primary is shed, I am unable to say, though the fifth is probably the next to be renewed, followed by the others in regular order inward.
One male Piranga erythromelas shows the 7th and 8th primaries molted first, followed by the 6th ; while the 9th was shed simultaneously with the 5th.
This, however, seems to have been an individual exception.
In the Snow Buntings two molting females (Disko, Greenland, Aug. 11th) show that the innermost primary is lost first, followed by the next four almost simultaneously and then the others in rapid succession.
The loss of all these feathers occurs so nearly at the same time, that all but two of the old primaries are shed before any of the new ones have grown as long as the secondaries (PI.
V, fig.
4), The first secondary feather to be molted is the outermost, followed by the others in regular order.
The secondaries, however, do not begin to molt until the primaries have nearly all been renewed, the first new secondary appearing simultaneously with the 4th or 5th primary — i. e. when only three or four of the old primaries remain (PI.
V, fig.
5).
The first tertial generally appears a little before the first secondary.
The primaries and secondaries seem to be the most persistent of the bird's feathers, and when they are shed, there is always, so far as I have been able to ascertain, a complete molt.
The tertials on the other hand are frequently renewed independently of the other wing feathers during the spring, when there is a partial molt in some species.
As regards the molt of the tail, it has generally been stated that the feathers are shed symmetrically and successively a pair at a time while this may be true it is nevertheless a fact that in many, probably most, of our smaller land birds, the molts of the successive pairs occur in such rapid succession that the bird is for a brief time practically tail-less, and the half grown feathers a[)pear to be all of nearly the same size as in the case of the first tail of the nestling, when partly grown.
In other words the first pair of new tail-feathers does not reach a functional length before the last pair of old feathers is shed.
In cases where there is an appreciable difference in the time of shedding the different pairs of tail-feathers, it is the general rule that the outermost pair is the last to be shed, and birds are not infrequently found with the new central pair of tail-feathers halfgrown, while the old outermost pair is still retained (PI.
V, fig.
2).
The swallows are especially good examples of this, as the molt of the tail in this group seems to be very gradual (PI.
IV, fig.
4).
In Quiscahis and some other birds the central pair is the last to be molted, all the others having nearly completed their growth before the old middle feathers are shed.
In the Woodpeckers the molt begins with the pair next to the middle' and extends outward while the central pair is the last to be shed (PI.
V, fig.
1).
In this family the tail has a particular function, — i. e. in climbing; hence the slow molt, as the birds would be at a great disadvantage if the whole tail was lost at once.
The central pair of feathers are of particular importance, and the old ones are, therefore, retained until the new quills of the next pair have become sufficiently developed to temporarily take their place during their own renewal.
The tail-feathers generally correspond with the primaries and secondaries in the number of molts which they undergo during the year, but in some cases where there is a spring molt of the body feathers, together with the tertials, there is also a complete molt of the tail, while the primaries and secondaries are not renewed.
This takes place — in certain individuals at least — in the Sharp-tailed Finch, Ammodramus caudacutus.
Another peculiarity of the tail-feathers is their renewal at times other than those of regular molt, when they have been lost through accident.
This does not occur in the wing feathers so far as I am aware.
Perhaps owing to the fact that the wing feathers are so much more firmly rooted than any of the other feathers, they are rarely if ever lost through accident, and hence the necessity for renewal does not arise ; while the tail-feathers on other hand are the most frequently lost of any of the feathers, for, owing to their position, they are often caught and pulled out by beasts or birds of prey.
Having considered the order of the molt in the body-feathers, wing and tail separately, it remains to consider the relative time of molt ^ In one specimen of Dryohaleti puhescens examined, this pair and the next outer pair were shed simultaneously.
1896.]
US in the three.
So far as I can judge from the material that I have, the first two or three primaries are generally shed before the feathers of the abdominal tracts are expanded and the outermost primary is lost at about the time that the body-plumage is completely renewed, while the tail in the majority of species is shed just previous to this — i. e. when one or two of the old primaries still remain.
A knowledge of these relations is very valuable in determining whether early fall specimens are adults or birds of the year.
In the former the outer primary will be found not quite completely grown, or at least with remains of the embryonic sheath at its base, while in the birds of the year no trace of recent growth or immaturity will be found in the wing or tail feathers, except in a few species which molt the remiges and rectrices of the first plumage in the fall.
* As regards species in which the molt of the tail occurs gradually the first tail feathers are shed about the same time as the sixth primary, while the last are shed simultaneously with the last or next to last primary.
In the Tyrannid?e, the body feathers begin to molt sometimes before the first flight feather is shed, and in young Sphyrapicus much of the first plumage is retained till long after the flight feathers have been renewed.
The following tables show the relative molting of the feathers in some of the specimens examined, and referred to above : — I.
RELATIVE MOLT OF BODY PLUMAGE.
""ZT^'^^r Interscapul Piranga erythromelas, 1,904, W. S just appearing.
Sturnella magna, 1,191, W. S nearly complete.
Colaptes auratus, 1,532, W. S nearly complete Quiscalus quiscula, 154,1 W. S !
nearly complete Plectrophenax nivalis, 26,987, A.N.
S complete.
Dolichouyx oryzivorus,!
32,783, A. M. N. H j complete.
just appearing.
complete.
sprouting.
just appearing.
half renewed.
complete.
Top of Head.
half renewed.
half renewed.
just appearing.
no molt.
just appearing.
complete.
Throat.
just sprouting.
no molt, just appearing.
no molt.
just appearing.
center of abdomen not molted.
NUMBER AND TIME OF MOLTS.
When the young bird emerges from the egg, it is enveloped in a more or less complete covering of down ; in ptilopsedic birds the cover* In any case, a specimen showing molt or evidence of recent molt in the bodj'-feathers, while the rectrices and remiges present no signs of molt, may be regarded with certainty as a bird of the year.
116 II.
SHOWING RELATIVE MOLT OF RECTRICES.
[1896.
Adults in Annual Molt.
Dryobates villosus, 26,644, A. N. S Old.
Dryobates pubeseens, 30,750, A. N. S Old.
Middle Pair.
Dryobates villosus, 20,646, A. N. S Colaptes auratus, 26,694, A. N. S , Colaptes auratus, 26,69.3, A. N. j Dryobates pubeseens, 26,651, A. N. S. Old.
Old.
2.5 2.0 E.G.
E.G.
2.5 2.0 E.G.
E.G.
E.G.
E.G.
4 5 Old Old Old.
Old.
Old.
Old.
1.5 1.5 E.G.
.2 E.G.
E.G.
.1 E.G.
F.G. E.G.
F.G. Tachycineta bicolor, 28,-595, A. N. Tacbvcineta bicolor, 1,660, W. S.. Tachycineta bicolor, 1,921, W. S.. !
.7 Old.
Old.
Old.
Old.
F.G. .3 1.3 Old.
Old.
E.G.
F.G. F.G. F.G. .2 Old.
Old.
1.0 Cyanocitta stelleri, 30,92.3, A. N. S 3.2 Spizella pusilla, 1,170, W. S 2 Plectrophenax nivalis, 26,987, A. N. S 2.0 Passerina cyanea, 28,516, A. N. S 1.5 Myiarchus cineraseeus, 29,456, A. N. S E.G.
Lanius ludovicianus, 1,429, W. S E. G. Seiurus aurocapillus, 1,138, W. S 1 Icterus galbula, 28,096, A. N. S !
F.G. Melospiza fasciata, 1,667, W. S ' F.G. Ammodramus caudacutus, 1,155, W. S | E. G. 3.5 .5 2.0 1.5 .3 .5 .1 F.G. F.G. F.G. Old.
.8 2.0' 1.5 .5 1.7 .1 E.G.
F.G. F.G. Old.
1.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 1.8 .1 .1 F.G. E.G.
Old.
1.7 2.0 1.5 1.5 2.2 .2 .2 F.G. E.G.
Old.
Old.
2.5 1.7 2.2 2.5 .5 .6 .2 .1 Quiscalus quiscula, 28,117, A. N. S Old.
3.6 2.0 1.5 1.2 1.0 The four divisions represent four styles of molting.
Numerals denote the amount in inches that the new feathers lack of their full growth. "
E. G." denotes " Full Grown."
Dashes show that the old feather has been shed but the new one has not yet appeared.
III.
SHOWING RELATIVE MOLT OF WING FEATHERS.
Molothrus ater, 28,028, A. N S.* Agelaius phoeniceus, 1,.579, W. S Dolithonyx oryzivorus, 28,000, A. N. S Piraiiga erythromelas, 1,904, W. S Colaptes auratus, 1,.532, W S Quiscalus quiscula, 1,900, VV.
S.* Quiscalus quiscula, 1,541, W. S * Sturnella magna, 1,191, W. S Chaetura pelagica, 1,521, W. S Plectrophenax nivalis, 26,987, A. N. S Dolichonyx oryzivorus, 32,783, A. M. N. H.. f. Melospiza fasciata, 1,667, W.S Tachycineta bicolor, 1,921, W.S Last Primary Shed.
Molt in Secondaries.
Molt in Tertials.
Molt in Greater Coverts.
Molt in Lesser Coverts.
6 none.
none.
complete.
nearly comp.
6 none.
none.
complete.
just begun.
5 none.
half grown.
half grown.
none.
5 none.
mid.
shed.
none.
just begun.
5 first 3^ gr.
y^ grown.
complete.
complete.
a first sprouted.
sprouted.
complete.
nearly comp.
4 first H gr.
sprouted.
complete.
nearly comp.
4 none.
inner spr't'd complete.
nearly comp.
4 Vi grsprouted.
partly molted.
partly molted.
3 none.
complete.
complete.
partly molted.
2 1st and 6th.
complete.
complete.
complete.
1 nearly comp.
complete.
complete.
complete.
1 nearly comp.
complete.
complete.
complete.
* Molt from first plumage, t Spring molt.
All others are adults in annual molt.
ing is complete, while in psilop?edic birds it is but very slightlydeveloped.
In prsecocial species the downy dress is retained for a considerable time before the first feathers appear, but in altricial birds it is soon replaced by what is known as the "first plumage."
The reraiges and rectrices of the first plumage are usually the same as those of the adult, but the body feathers, while of the ordinary structure, are much more pJumulaceous than the covering of the adult.
This first plumage is retained for some time (three or four months) in some species, but in others it is very soon replaced by a more permanent winter plumage in which all the feathers are of the same structure as those of the adult.
The entire body plumage is molted at this time as5 well as most of the wing coverts ; but the rectrices, remiges and the primary coverts are, in the great majority of our smaller land birds, retained until the next annual molt.
The species in which all the first plumage feathers are molted are the following : Otocoris alpestris, Cardinalis cardinalis, Agelaius phceniceus, Quiscalus q^dsciila, Molothrus ater, Sturnella magna, Scolecophagus carolinus, Tachycineta bicolor and all the Woodpeckers.
Of Ceryle, TrochUus, Chcetura and a few Oscines I have been unable to examine sufficient specimens to speak with certainty on this point.
In early spring, probably about the time of revival of sexual activity and immediately preceding the vernal migration, there is in the vast majority of birds a more or less complete molt.
Sometimes, as in the case of the Bobolink, the change is absolutely complete, but as a rule the remiges and rectrices are not renewed, while in other species the molt may only amount to the acquisition of a few new feathers on the throat or sides of the head.
The tertials are often renewed at this time and seem to correspond more with the body feathers than with those of the wing as regards their molting.
It is at this season that many birds acquire marks of maturity which are lacking during the first winter of their life, as for instance, the yellow superciliary and loral stripes of certain finches, while markings characteristic of the breeding season as opposed to the winter, also appear at the time of spring molt.
In studying the species of our smaller land birds which molt in the spring it will be noticed that of necessity, species which difl^er radically in their spring and fall plumage, have the most complete spring molt ; while, as a rule, in those in which the plumage is nearly the same throughout the year, the spring molt is least marked.
The Savanna Sparrow and Sharp-tailed Finch are interesting exceptions to the latter statement.
The annual molt which occurs at the close of the breeding season, in late summer or early fall, is common to all birds, and is generallycoincident with the molt of the first plumage of the young birds of the first broods, varying, however, in this respect in diflferent species.
The annual molt is always complete, and when the new feathers are assumed, the plumage is richer in color and fuller than at any other time.
In the breeding plumage, the colors may be in stronger contrast, but this is generally due to the wearing away of the blending colors of the tips of the feathers^ which necessarily makes the plumage rougher.
CHANGE OF COLOR BY ABRASION.
During the time intervening between two molts, the feathers undergo a certain amount of abrasion.
In such birds, specimens taken just before the annual molt, present a very dilapidated appearance, and the abrasion, combined with bleaching, has generally altered the appearance of the plumage very materially from that of the preceding fall.
While this effect of abrasion is seen in the plumage of all birds just before the annual molt, the feathers of some are so constructed as to render possible a complete change in the color of the exposed plumage by abrasion, long before the time when the eflTects of the general wear and tear above described are apparent.
These feathers have their terminal portion difierently colored from the basal, so that when the plumage is in its normal " shingled " position, only the terminal part of each feather is exposed, and the general color of the plumage is the same as this portion of the feather.
By the loss of this terminal portion, the diflTerently colored base of the feather comes into view and the general color of the plumage is thus completely changed (PI.
IV, fig.
7).
This result is attained by general wear and tear and also, doubtless, by the agency of the bird itself in preening its feathers.
The diflTerently colored tips to these feathers wear off very rapidly, and generally disappear entirely before any perceptible wear is noticeable on other parts of the plumage which are uniform in color.
This would indicate that the terminal portions of these feathers are more brittle than the basal part, especially as the breadth Except when a complete spring molt occurs.
I 1896.]
119 of the terminal portion varies on different feathers, while the abrasion always takes place exactly to the line of demarcation of the colors.
In the bodyfeathers, the terminal part is less perfectly pennaceous in structure than the base, and many of the barbs are entirely free at their tips, which naturally makes them more liable to rapid abrasion down to the point where the strongly pennaceous structure begins.® This is particularly well seen in the Snow Bunting.
A Fig.
1 .
Tips of several barbs from feather of Snow Bunting showing the difierence in structure between the light and dark portions (greatly enlarged ) Photograph by Dr. A. P. Brown.
Fig.
2.
Same, further enlarged, with the barbs undisturbed showing the interlocking of the barbules in the black area.
Somewhat diagrammatic, after photograph by Dr. Brown.
microscopical examination of these feathers, conducted at my request by my friend Dr. A. P. Brown, shows further that the booklets on these terminal parts are fewer in number and less perfectly developed, while the basal portion of the feather where the dark pigment begins is thicker and probably tougher in structure, the barbules and booklets being here well developed (Fig.
1 and 2).
* A paper by Mr. Frank M. Chapman has appeared since the above was written " On the Changes of Plumage in the Snowfiake, Plectrophenax niralis," Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist , VIII, pp 9-12.
In this he reaches exactly the same conclusions as are here set forth by the writer and Dr. Brown, and the fact that we were working entirely independently gives additional interest to the statements.
Certain wing feathers show a still more interesting phase of abrasion.
In the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, as is well known, secondaries and tertials in autumn and winter are marked on their edges with spots of white (Plate V, figs.
7, 8), while in the Meadow Lark and Curlews at the same season, many of the feathers have regular toothlike indentations of lighter color along the sides (Plate IV, figs.
8, 9).
By the time the breeding season has arrived these light-colored areas have been completely lost, while the dark parts remain intact, the line of demarcation having been followed as closely as if cut by a pair of scissors, except that some curved lines become straight owing to the whole barb breaking off beyond the light colored area (Plate IV, fig.
9).
In these feathers, both portions are equally pennaceous, and do not exhibit any difference in structure, so that we must regard the light portions as peculiarly brittle.
It is a noticeable fact that in all the birds that have been examined, the black feathers or black parts of a feather seem less subject to abrasion than those of any other color.
In most cases where marked abrasion takes place, the lighter tips serve to produce the blended appearance characteristic of the winter plumage of all birds, while their loss brings out the strong contrast of colors characteristic of the breeding season, and produced in other species by actual molt.
The case of the Bobolink is of particular interest in this connection, diflTering from that of any other species, unless it be some individuals of the Rose-breasted Grosbeak.
It has a complete spring molt, but instead of assuming the breeding plumage at this time, as in the case of most birds which molt in the spring, it assumes a dress almost as dull and blended as its winter attire, but which is transformed to the breeding plumage by the abrasion of the long buff tips which adorn all the feathers.'
The utility of such a process is difficult to see.
The long tips are " acquired to be lost " as it were ; they begin to break off immediately and within two months have disappeared.
SEASONAL PLUMAGES.
The number of recognizable plumages, which a bird may assume, is obviously dependent upon the length of time that is required for it to acquire the mature dress.
The simplest case is where this is accomplished when the first-plumage is molted or at the end of the ' See Chapman, Auk, 1890, p. 120. summer in which the bird is hatched.
In such a species then, there are only three plumages : 1.
First Plumage.
2.
Winter Plumage.
3.
Nuptial Plumage ; — the latter being acquired in early spring, either by actual molt or abrasion.
Sometimes it is so like the winter plumage that they can scarcely be distinguished, but this is the exception, for even when no molt takes place, the abrasion gives such a different appearance to the plumage by wearing off the blending shades that the spring and fall birds can easily be separated.
In other species the winter plumage of the young bird is not absolutely like that of the adult, every shade of difference existing from those that are scarcely se2:)arable to those that are radically difllerent.
In such cases there are, of course, four or five recognizable plumages: 1.
First Plumage.
2.
Plumage of First Winter.
3.
Plumage of First Nuptial season.
4.
Adult AVinter Plumage.
5.
Adult Nuptial Plumage.
In most species the Adult Nuptial Plumage is assumed at the first spring molt, in which case there will be only four distinct plumages.
Sometimes the number of plumages is still further increased by the fact that the bird does not acquire the complete adult dress for three or four years.
The changes, however, do not progress as regularly in these instances after the first year, a greater or less amount of the adult plumage being assumed at each molt by different individuals ; so that a large series instead of being divisable into several lots, each characterized by distinctive marks, represents on the contrary a complete gradation from the bird of the year to the adult.
Such instances have been made to serve as examples of the alleged change of plumage by direct change in the coloration of the feathers.
Another point bearing upon the plumages of species that require several years to acquire the mature dress, is the question whether there are not some individuals which never do acquire this plumage.
The fact of the remarkably small proportion of birds in fully adult plumage in such species as the Purple Finch, Pine Grosbeak, Whitethroated Sparrow, etc., lends weight to such a theory, although its actual demonstration is, perhaps, impossible.
Then again, there are occasional peculiar plumages, which, though they may be abnormal, are nevertheless by no means unique, such as the bright orange plumage of the male Scarlet Tanager, the Black-headed plumage of the female Rose-breasted Grosbeak, and 9 the occasional extremely brilliant plumage of the male of the same species, etc.
The two latter instances may be considered as: 1.
Partial adoption of the characters of male plumage by the female; and 2.
Extreme development of color in the male probably due to excessive vitality.
Another complicated series of plumages pointed out by Mr. F. M. Chapman® exists in the case of the Bobolink.
In these birds there arefour distinct plumages : 1.
First Plumage.
2.
Winter Plumage.
3.
Early Spring Plumage.
4.
Nuptial Plumage."
This early spring plumage is acquired by direct molt, and passes into the Nuptial Plumage by an extensive abrasion of the differently colored tips.
DIRECT CHANGE OF COLOR IN FEATHERS.
There have always been, and are to-day, ornithologists who believe thoroughly that feathers actually change their color, and that the change from the winter plumage to the nuptial dress in some species is accomplished solely in this manner without either molt or abrasion.
Schlegel, one of the greatest exponents of this theory, considered the phenomenon as nearly universal, and Gtitke, another of its staunch supporters, seems to be of much the same mind.
Other writers while supporting it, have regarded it as of much less general application and some consider it of very rare occurrence.
If such a change actually does take place, it would seem strange if it should not play a very important part in plumage-changes, and, if we admit that it does occur in any species, we may as well grant its possibility in a great number.
The importance of the question warrants a very careful consideration, and, in order not to be misunderstood, I may state at the outset that in spite of the instances that have been cited to illustrate this phenomenon, I have not yet found a single case that cannot be otherwise accounted for, and, cannot, therefore, admit that we have any proof of an actual change of color in a feather apart from what may be produced from abrasion or bleaching.
In most instances which have been cited in support of this theory, the writers have, it seems to me, fallen into the same error — i. e., they have taken a series of specimens, showing all sorts of mottled intergrades from one plumage to another, as indicating that each 8 Auk, 1890, p. 120.
® If we consider the birds of the year as recognizably distinct from the fall adults we must regard "2" as First Winter Plumage and add "5".
Adult Winter Plumage.
individual bird passed through all those gradations ; or they have taken a series of feathers from different individuals or different parts of the same individual, which show regular gradations from one style of coloration to another, as proof that each feather passes through all those gradations.
As a matter of fact, these mottled plumages are permanent for the time being, and at each regular molt a greater proportion of the adult plumage is assumed.
Scarcely any two individuals, however, correspond exactly in the amount of change that is effected at a given molt ;'" hence a series of breeding birds taken during the late spring or early summer, representing individuals of different age, will often show a nearly complete series of intergrades between the two styles of plumage, and there will, of course, be no signs of a molt.
A study of several of the more recent examples that have been brought forward to illustrate the actual change of color in feathers, will be of interest in this connection.
Dr. R. Bowdler Sharpe, in the Catalogue of Birds in the British Museum, seems to regard this alleged phenomenon as of rather common occurrence, and in some instances goes into much detail with regard to the subject.
This is especially the case in treating of Motacilla lugens,^^ in which he claims, not only a change from gray to black in the plumage of the back, but also a remarkable change in the color of the primaries and secondaries from brownish to pure white, the adult plumage being assumed according to Dr. Sharpe's theory, in the first spring.
With the same material examined by Dr. Sharpe, and a little more showing the molt in progress.
Dr. Stejneger'^ shows conclusively that this species requires several years to acquire the fully adult plumage, and that the changes in the color of the wing feathers is effected by actual molt and not by a change in the color of each individual feather.
This shows conclusively the importance of having specimens in the molt for examination and comparison, and what a different aspect they may put upon the case.
While combating the theory of direct color change in Motacilla ^"It is not intended that only a part of the plumage is changed ; while this may be true of the spring molt, the annual molt is always characterized by a complete change, but, in the cases referred to, part of the new plumage comes in exactly like the old, while in other parts the color of the new plumage is ■diflerent.
1^ Cat.
Eds.
Brit.
Mus., X, 1885, p. 474.
12 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1892, p. 307. lugens, Dr. Stejueger, nevertheless admits it in the case of Zanthopygia narcissina,^^ on what seems to me insufficient evidence.
This bird he believes changes without molt from an olive plumage to one of brilliant orange-yellow and black, while the wings and tail change from a dull brownish-gray to a deep black.
I have examined the series which Dr. Stejneger had in hand, and I fail to see anything it in that cannot be found in a similar series of Icterus spur i us or any other species that acquires its mature plumage by successive molts, the mottled plumage being permanent for the time.
So far as 1 can see, an actual molt of black and yellow feathers might occur in early spring, or patches of them might be acquired at the annual molt at the end of summer.
As there are no specimens in Dr. Stejneger's series taken earlier than the 29th of April, and no fall adults, it is hardly justifiable to conclude that the change in color does not take place by a direct molt, either in early spring or in late summer.
Furthermore, a specimen of the closely allied Z. tricolor,^* which agrees very well with Dr. Stejneger's most advanced "transition'^ specimens, having a few patches of olive-brown feathers above and brown remiges, but otherwise adult, shows by the presence of numerous " pin feathers" that the yellow breast, and the black on the head have just been assumed by direct molt.
That this specimen is an early spring bird I assume from the fact that the remiges and rectrices show no signs of recent molt, which they would do if it was the annual molt that had just occurred.
In regard to the remiges and rectrices of Zanthopygia, which Dr. Stejneger thinks change suddenly from dull brown to deep black, piecisely parallel cases are to be found in Piranga erythromelas and Hahia ludoviciana, and a series of either collected in May or June will show just the same variety of color in the quills as in the case of Zanthopygia.
In these species the dull colored quills are retained during the first spring when the winter body plumage is molted for the adult dress, but at the annual molt the jet black quills are assumed and there is certainly no direct change in the color of the feathers.
Giitke in his "Heligoland," gives us the most recent endorsement of the theory of actual color-change, a theory of which he was always a strong advocate.
The instances which he treats in detail are " isproc.
U.S.Nat.
Mus., 1892, p. 334. "
791, Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
almost entirely from the water birds, and we are not informed of the exact character of the material which came under his observation, all that we have is his interpretation of the facts.
The species to which he calls especial attention are the Dunlin, Knot and Sanderling. "
In the Dunlin " he says " the change of colour develops itself in the following manner : In the ash-grey feathers of the back the shaft first becomes black ; this color spreads rapidly over the feathers, finally leaving only broad gray margins.
The latter at first change to a dull rusty-grey, which, however, subsequently passes into a beautiful ferruginous color.
At the same time the dull ashgrey tips of the feathers pass into a whitish-grey, their margins being simultaneously rounded off to their former entirety."
How such a theory could have been advocated, after the examination of a large series of specimens, I cannot understand, for a series of spring examples of the American Dunlin taken on the coast of New Jersey show the black and rusty feathers coming in abundantly and supplanting the worn gray feathers of the winter plumage.'"
In the Sanderling Giitke states there is a change from a uniform light gray to a deep black, and from a beautiful ferruginous color to a pure white.
Here again spring specimens, from the coast of New Jersey and Florida, show the black and ferruginous plumage molting in and superceding the light gray plumage of winter.
Gatke says (p. 163) that he " confines his description to what actually takes place, without embarking on any hypothetical conjectures."
In this, however, I cannot agree with him ; lie does not claim to have seen the change in color actually take place in any individual feather, and to make the assertion that feathers change from one style of coloration to another when the only facts before him are that he has feathers which represent those styles of coloration, one of which might change to the other, involves entirely too great an assumption.
In his chapter on "colour-change without moulting" Gatke supports another theory, also originally advanced by Schlegel, but which '^ Since the present paper was presented to the Academy for publication (see Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1896, p. 12), Mr. F. M. Chapman has published an article on " The Changes of Plumage in the Dunlin and Sanderling" (Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., VIII, p1—8), in which he criticises Griitke's statements on the same grounds as above.
Here again, it is interesting to note that Mr. Chapman and the writer working independently, arrived at exactly the same conclusions.
Gatke formerly repudiated, and oue which other advocates of the " color-change " theory have generally left untouched, i. e., the theory that simultaneously with the change in color there occurs a rebuilding of the worn edges of the feathers which restores all the even contours and gives them the appearance of newly molted feathers.
The acceptance of the theory of color-change without molt or abrasion, necessitates the adoption of some such theory as this, since the bright spring feathers are generally much more perfect in outline and often in striking contrast to the worn winter plumage from which Schlegel and Gatke would have us believe they have been produced.
A slight knowlege of the development of feathers would tend to show the absurdity of such a theory as this, since the barbs of a feather do not continue to grow out from the shaft like the limbs of a tree, but are really formed from the tip inward toward the shaft.
And once being unfolded from the sheath of the " pin feather," no further structural development can possibly take place in them.
Too many writers have made arbitrary statements and then questioned the accuracy of the investigations of histologists because they did not support them.
In investigating these questions, we must accept at the outset the testimony of physiologists and histologists, that from the very nature of the structure of a feather it is incapable of renewing its barbs or barbules, and that after the contents of the quill have once dried up there is no connection between the vanes of the feather and the life fluids of the bird.
This at once precludes the change of pigment, except by chemical action from without, and it is difficult to see how this should only exert an influence during a certain short period and have no effect at other times.
It has been suggested that the presence of innumerable bubbles of air would tend to obscure the pigment in a feather and cause it to appear white, while the expulsion of air from a white feather might bring out a dark pigment previously concealed.
In the case of the Motacilla, however, portions of the plumage turn white and other parts black at the same time and it is hard to understand how an external action could affect different feathei's in an exactly opposite manner, and if there was proved to be exhalation from the body into the feather, the structure of the feather would preclude a passage of air into the barbs from the quill.
It might further be added, that the yellow feathers of Zanthopygia, which should according to this theory contain a concealed dark pigment, have really no pigment at all, as has been ascertained by careful microscopical examination by my friend Dr. Thos.
H. Montgomery.
The only instance where I know of an actual change of color in the plumage, except by fading, is in the case of certain delicate pink tints on the breasts of gulls, which disappear after death, but this color, I think, is probably due to a peculiar surface structure which is destroyed or altered by the drying out of the plumage, when removed from contact with water or the oil of the bird.
PLUMAGES AND MOLTS OF THE SMALLER LAND BIRDS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA.
Below I have recorded such facts as I have been able to gather regarding the molts and plumages of our smaller land birds.
In a number of species I have been unable to ascertain the exact extent of the molts or their number from lack of necessary material, but have thought it best to give such facts as I have rather than to omit the species altogether.
Some species on the other hand I have been able to treat with much detail, and have referred to them in describing others with a similar series of molts.
I have as a rule omitted any detailed description of the plumages, as these can be obtained from any of the manuals or general works on North American birds, and have made my remarks as to colors, etc., mainly comparative.
Where I had sufficient material to warrant it, I have given after each species a list of its plumages, considering three as the smallest number of plumages exhibited by any species.
In many, however, the winter and nuptial dresses are practically alike except for a slight abrasion.
Where male and female are not definitely indicated their molting is the same.
Family CUCULIDJE.
Coccyzus erythrophthalmus (Wilson).
Black-billed Cuckoo.
Coccyzus americanus (Linn.).
Yellow-billed Cuckoo.
I have been unable to examine any adult Cuckoos in the molt.
The young molt the body plumage the last week in August.
I am inclined to think that there is no spring molt in either species.
Spring and fall specimens it is true are scarcely distinguishable, but I do not consider the unworn appearance of spring birds as a necessary proof that there has been a spring molt, as an examination of late summer specimens, just previous to the annual molt, shows that abrasion produces scarcely any effect in the Cuckoos.
The sexes are alike in molts and practically so in plumages.
Family ALCEDINID^.
Ceryle alcyon (Linn.).
Belted Kingfisher.
The Kingfisher presents several peculiarities in its molting and I have not yet been enabled to examine sufficient material to satisfactorily describe it.
So far as my material goes I think the rufous edgings to the breast band belong only to the bird of the year, as old birds in the annual molt have the new feathers of the breast band plain bluish slate or slightly edged with white.
Whether the young molt the flight feathers with the rest of their first plumage I cannot say, but the wing feathers of the rufous tipped fall birds are very fresh and perfect, whicli may be considered evidence that they do.
That there is a partial molt in early spring is evidenced by the fresh feathers in spring specimens which are in strong contrast to the older worn plumage, especially on the pectoral band.
The wing feathers of some spring birds are unusually bright with the white tips scarcely worn and one example, (June, 1881, Palo Alto Co., Iowa, No.
26,640, A. N. S.), has the remiges all of this character, except the innermost pair of primaries and one of the secondaries on the leftside, which are very much worn and abraded.
This may indicate a spring molt of the wings in some individuals but in the majority it apparently does not occur.
The peculiar order of molt in the primaries has already been noticed.
Family PICIDJE.
The North American Woodpeckers,^" as already pointed out by Mr. Brewster, (Bull.
Nutt.
Orn.
Club, 1878, p. 179), always molt the wing and tail feathers along with the rest of the first plumage.
The molt of this plumage, especially on the head and breast, goes on slowly and the birds start on their southward migration before it has been entirely renewed.
In some individuals indeed the molting is not completed till well into the winter.
Dryobates villosus (Linn.).
Hairy Woodpecker.
Male.
— Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
All plumages of this bird are very similar.
There is no spring molt apparent in any specimens examined and but little effect is 16 And probably all of the family.
produced by abrasion.
Female molts exactly as in the male, but its plumage lacks the red nuchal band.
Dryobates pubescens (Linn.).
Downy Woodpecker.
]Molts and plumages as in the last.
Some spring specimens show a renewal of some of the breast feathers, but this may also take place in v'lUosus.
A fall specimen of each species exhibits a remarkably worn " moth-eaten " appearance on the breast and flanks probably due to a peculiarity in the habits of these individuals.
Sphyrapicus varius (Linn.).
Yellow-bellied Sapsucker.
Male.
— Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
The molt of the first plumage of the head and breast of this species continues all through the fall and winter and one taken April 8th, (Philadelphia, Pa.), shows a few new feathers appearing on the crown and throat.
The winter plumage is, therefore, a mottled one.
The breeding bird is hardly different from the full plumaged spring individual, as abrasion produces but little effect.
Female molts like the male.
Adult plumage diflTers in having the throat white, some individuals have the crown black, others red ; whether this is due to age or .purely individuality I cannot determine.
Ceophloeus pileatus (Linn.).
Pileated Woodpecker.
Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
This species shows but little variation in plumage.
There is no spring molt, but the nuptial dress is somewhat abraded and browner than the winter plumage.
Melanerpes erythrocepbalus (Linn.).
Red-headed Woodpecker.
Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
The first plumage is retained for a long time ; of four specimens showing the transition to the adult, only one has data,!, e., Haddonfield, N. J., Dec. 2, 1880, No.
1,405 Coll.. W. Stone.
This I think is probably the regular time for the molt, as specimens taken in October show no signs of a change.
The annual molt of the adult occurs during the middle of August as usual.
Whether they have any spring molt I am unable to say positively.
The plumage is but little affected by abrasion, so that the unworn appearance of spring birds is not necessarily an evidence of a recent molt.
Very highly colored individuals have a red patch on the center of the abdomen.
Melanerpes carolinus (Linn.).
Red-bellied Woodpecker.
Without a satisfactory series I am unable to describe the molt of this bird in detail, but it is apparently the same as in the preceding species.
Colaptes auratus (Linn.).
Flicker.
Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
The molt from first plumage begins in July, a specimen taken August 9, 1893, in Montgomery Co., Pa. shows it about half completed.
The annual molt of the old birds occurs at the same time.
I can find no trace of spring molt and abrasion produces little effect upon the plumage until after May.
Mr. F. M. Chapman has described in detail the variation in the upper tail coverts in this genus."
Unfortunately I have been unable to examine a sufificient series of the Macrochires to give a complete account of the molting of any of the species, but have included such notes as I have.
Family CAPRIMULGID^.
Antrostomus vociferus (Wils.).
Whip-poor-will.
As shown in Wilson's figure this bird has an early downy plumage which almost immediately gives place to the usual " first" plumage, a specimen taken at Haddonfield, N. J., July 2, 1893, (Coll.
W. Stone), shows the transition.
As regards the number and time of molts, a comparison of specimens would indicate that they are the same as the following.
Chordeiles virginianus (Gmel.).
Night Hawk.
Mr. Wm.
Brewster has described transition specimens from the early downy plumage to the first plumage and similar ones are in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia from Florida.
A specimen taken Sept. 10, is in the first plumage, with many new feathers appearing on the breast and elsewhere, but no molt of the flight feathers; how complete this molt is I cannot not say.
An adult specimen taken Sept. 1, shows much renewal of the body plumage, but no trace of it in the wings or tail.
It would seem from this that the molt was quite late, and the loss of the flight feathers relatively later than in most birds.
I have seen no trace of spring molt.
Family MICROPODIDJE.
Chaetura pelagica (Linn.).
Chimney Swift.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
The annual molt in this species occurs from Aug. 1 to the first week of September and there seems to be no spring molt.
Abrasion " Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
Ill, p. 311. does not produce much effect upon the plumage but it loses the bright metallic luster which characterizes the fresh winter dress.
I am inclined to think that the young do not renew the flight feathers at their first molt.
Family TROCHILIDJE.
Trochilus colubris (Linn.).
Ruby-throated Humming-bird.
The only molting specimens of the Humming-bird that I have seen are spring birds taken at Labna, Yucatan, March 15th, in which the feathers on the throat are being renewed.
Probably, tlie young males acquire the ruby throat at this time.
Family TYRANNIC^.
The Tyrant Flycatchers show scarcely any seasonal variation, the first plumage being nearly the same as the adult, while the feathers are very little affected by abrasion.
There are, therefore, as a rule only three plumages ; first, winter and nuptial.
Tyrannus tyrannus (Linn.).
Kingbird.
Adult Kingbirds, taken August 21, show some molt on the body but no trace of renewal of the flight feathers, which would indicate that the annual molt is not completed until quite late.
Some spring specimens show a few new feathers appearing on the breast and back, but whether there is a more extensive renewal of the plurbage before the birds start north from their winter quarters I cannot say.
Abrasion plays little or no part in changing the plumage of this species.
The first plumage gives way to that of the adult late in August but no molt occurs in the wing and tail.
Myiarchus crinitus (Linn.).
Crested Flycatcher.
The annual molt in this species begins early in August and is indicated in the wings before any new feathers appear on the body, differing in this respect from the last.
There seems to be no spring molt.
The young birds of the first brood begin to renew their body plumage early in August.
All the plumages of this bird are very similar.
Sayornis phoebe (Lath.).
Pewec.
There is no spring molt in the Pewee but much abrasion takes place during winter so that the sulphur tint of the under surface, which is characteristic of fall specimens, is nearly lost by the breeding season.
The molt of first plumage in the young is restricted to the body feathers.
Contopus virens (Linn.).
AVood Pewee.
I am unable to say, from an examination of spring specimens, how much of a molt this species undergoes before its northward migration.
Compared with specimens of the preceding they appear much less abraded, which indicates that a partial spring molt occurs.
Contopus borealis (Swains.).
Olive-sided Flycatcher.
The above remarks apply equally well to this species.
Empidonax.
The species of this genus all resemble Contopus in the appearance of their seasonal plumages.
The freshness of the spring feathers seems to indicate a partial spring molt at least, but without a satisfactory series of winter specimens ; it is not possible to decide this point.
The renewal of the body plumage at the annual molt, as in Tyrannus, begins before there is any molt of the flight feathers.
Family ALAUDID^.
Otocoris alpestris (Linn.).
Horned Lark.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
There seems to be no spring molt in this species, but a great deal of abrasion takes place during winter and spring, by which the light edgings to the black crown and throat patch are lost and the other colors brought into stronger contrast.
The young birds molt the flight feathers at the end of summer along with the rest of the first plumage.
Family CORVIDJE.
Cyanocitta cristata (Linn.).
Blue Jay.
Plumages, three; first, winter and nuptial, though, except for the slight effects of abrasion, there is no difl^erence between the last two.
There is no spring molt and the young molt only the body plumage at the end of their first summer.
Perisoreus canadensis (Linn.).
Canada Jay.
Three plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
I have not been able to examine a satisfactory series of this species but feel pretty sure that its molt is the same as in the preceding.
Corvus oorax principalis RiJgw.
Raven.
^ 1 have been unable to prove the number of molts in the raven by actual examination of molting specimens, but such material as I have before me indicates a precisely similar molt to that of the crow.
A molting specimen from Sitka, Alaska, June 15, 1895, shows that the central tail feathers are the first to be renewed, and are well grown before any of the others are dropped, Corvus ossifragus (AVils.).
Fish Crow.
Corvus americanus (Aud.)
.
American Crow.
Three plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
The Crow has no spring molt so far as I can ascertain ; the annual molt is quite early, occurring in June or July, while the young birds molt the first body plumage about the end of the latter month.
As in most black birds abrasion is but little marked.
Many specimens, however, are dingy and have the tips of the wings bleached to a brown tint.
The Fish Crow apparently molts exactly the same.
Family ICTERIDJE.
The Icteridse may be arranged in three groups as regards their molt.
Doliclionyx has two complete molts each year standing alone among our smaller land birds in this respect.
The young probably has no molt of flight feathers at the close of its first summer.
The two species of Icterus have a more or less complete spring molt of the body feathers the first year at least, and the young do not molt the flight feathers in August.
The rest of our species have no spring molt whatever, but the young have a complete molt at the end of the first summer, including both wing and tail.
This occurs in only three other instances among our Passeres — i. e., in Cardinalis, Tachycineta and Otocoris.
Doliclionyx oryzivorus (Linn.).
Bobolink.
Male.
— Plumages, first, winter, early spring, nuptial.
The molting of this species has been so carefully treated by Mr. F. M. Chapman who was the first to describe the early spring plumage and the manner in which it is acquired, that it is hardly necessary to go into details in this connection.
When the young bird has acquired the bufl' winter plumage it is practically undistinguishable from the winter adult.
Early in spring (March 1st,) this plumage is entirely molted even to the wings and tail and a new black plumage is assumed, all the feathers of which are so broadly edged with brownish buff* that the general plumage appears to be of this shade.
By the breeding season the aspect of the plumage is again changed, this time entirely by abrasion, and the bird appears in its black and white dress.
The Bobolink furnislies the only instance known to me, among the species here treated, of a molt of the remiges in the spring.
The molt of the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, with this exception, is almost parallel for the first season, though the buff edgings which are lost by abrasion are not quite so much developed.
Afterward, however, the Rose-breast has a winter plumage quite different from that of the first year while the Bobolink, year after year, returns to the buff " Reed-bird " garb.
The old winter birds are perhaps of a little different shade of buff and I think it is only the old birds that show the occasional black feathers in fall.
Mr. Chapman's specimen in the spring molt as well as specimens in the annual molt have been examined.
I have been unable, however, to ascertain whether the young bird molts the wing and tail feathers with the rest of the first plumage or not.
Female.
— Plumage always similar to winter dress of male.
I have not been able to ascertain whether there is any spring molt or not, the breeding plumage, however, is much lighter than the winter dress owing to abrasion.
A curious plumage is shown in a specimen from Raleigh, N. C. May 2, 1893, No.
M, Coll.
W. A. Shryock, in which there are many black feathers on the breast, belly and head, evidently an approach to the male pattern of coloration.
Molothrus ater (Bodd.).
Cowbird.
Male.
— Plumages ; first, winter and nuptial ; the last two, however, are scarcely distinguishable, owing to the very small effect produced by abrasion in this species.
There seems to be no spring molt whatever, and almost the only effect of the abrasion is to emphasize the line of demarcation between the brown head and the black back.
The young molt the wing and tail at the end of summer with the rest of the plumage.
Female.
— Molts as in the male.
The adult plumage is entirely gray and the abrasion is very marked in spring, presenting a " clipped " appearance exactly as in Ammodramus maritimus.
There is no change in the coloration of either sex of the Cowbird after the first winter dress has been assumed.
Agelaius phoeniceus (Linn.).
Red-winged Blackbird.
Male.
— Five fairly marked plumages may be distinguished: — first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter and adult nuptial, the last two, however, as in many other species, differ very slightly.
At the end of the first summer the entire plumage of the young bird is shed, including the wing and tail, and a black dress broadlyedged with brown is then assumed.^® This becomes almost entirely black by the breeding season through abrasion.
Owing to the extent of the abrasion, however, the plumage presents a somewhat worn .
appearance and there is always more or less trace of the brown edgings present.
The subsequent winter plumages show much less of the brown borders and eventually this dress is nearly pure black ; except, of course, the shoulders.
This is well shown in a fall male of A. phceniceus sonoriensis in the U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Coll.
Whether the brown edges are ever entirely lost at the second annual molt or whether birds in such plumage are always several years of age I cannot say, but incline to latter view.
The less brown margins to the winter plumage, the less abrasion takes place and the nuptial plumage appears relatively smoother.
The depth of color of the red shoulder patch is not necessarily an index of the age, as some birds in the first year have deep red shoulders.
Mr. Brewster describes (Z. c.) an occasional, though not unique plumage, which has a " crescentic patch of pale yellow tinged with rose-color ujiou the breast," Avhich he regards as an " exceedingly high phase of ornamentation."
Females.
— Vary considerably in the tints on the throat ; the buffest ones I take to be birds in their first year and those with the pinkest throats are probably the oldest.
The red on the shoulder of the females increases in proportion to that on the throat.
The molts are exactly the same as in the male, and the abrasion in spring always well marked.
Sturnella magna (Linn.).
Meadow Lark.
3Iale.
— Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
The Meadow Lark, as in the preceding species, molts both wing and tail at the end of the first summer.
There is no spring molt, the change to the breeding dress being produced entirely by abrasion.
All the under surface is veiled in winter with long brownish or buff tips.
The bright yellow and black tips are only brought out when these are lost.
On the upper surface the abrasion affects the light margins to the body feathers and the light bands and indentations on the tertials, which become worn in a most remarkable manner (see Plate IV, figs.
8 and 9).
There is some variation in the extent i«First described by Mr. Wm.
Brewster, Bull.
Nutt.
Orn.
Club, 1878, p. 175. of the brown margins of the winter plumage, birds showing the least being probably the oldest.
Female.
— Like the male in molts and plumages.
Icterus galbula (Linn.).
Baltimore Oriole.
The males of this species assume four distinct plumages.
The first plumage is ashy on the back passing into dull orange on head and rump and whitish below, wings suffused with yellow-brown bordered with white and tail dull orange.
The body feathers of this dress are soon shed and the plumage of the first winter assumed, generally by the middle of August.
In this the back is dull orange, brightest on the head and rump and mottled with dark-brown on the interscapulum ; below nearly uniform bright orange-yellow.
These two plumages are remarkably similar, the latter being uniformly brighter and richer and easily distinguished by the different structure of the feathers.
In early spring there is a molt which as usual varies exceedingly in its extent in different individuals.
Usually the entire black body plumage of the adult is assumed covering the back, entire head and throat, also the reddish-orange on the breast, sides of the abdomen and a certain amount on the rump.
The middle of the abdomen and the greater part of the rump, however, retain the old yellowish winter plumage.
There is great irregularity in the molt of the tail as well as the tertials and greater wing coverts.
All but one of the specimens examined show some molt in these feathers, but in none is it complete.
One has renewed all the tail but the four outer feathers of the left side, another has renewed only the middle pair and one other; and still another retains three old feathers on the right side.
The specimen which shows the least molt in the first spring (No.
25,734, Coll.
A. N. S. May 24, 1864, Republican Riv., Kas.
), has only acquired part of the black bead, the old yellow plumage remaining in a large nuchal patch, while below the reddish-orange feathers have appeai-ed only on the breast.
There has been no molt, whatever, in the wing or tail.
The black interscapulary plumage, which is assumed by the Baltimore Oriole at the first spring molt, shows the same variation as exhibited in the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, i. e., in some individuals the feathers are uniform black while in others they are bordered with orange.
At the annual molt in July the entire plumage is renewed and the perfect plumage is acquired.
This is like the previous dress, but the whole abdomen and rump and lesser wing coverts are bright reddish-orange, while the black is more intense.
All the other wing feathers are jet black bordered with white ; the two middle rectrices are black, the next pair largely black, the others orange with move or less black on the base.
The interscapulary feathers are generally slightly tipped with orange.
In the second spring there is no molt, unless there may be a renewal of some of the scattered feathers but the light tips of the interscapular feathers are entirely lost from abrasion and the white on the wings is greatly reduced and on the tertials entirely lost from the same cause.
Icterus spurius (Linn.).
Orchard Oriole.
Notwithstanding the large amount of material that I have examined, I have been unable to procure specimens which show conclusively the history of the molts of this bird.
The large series, aggregating several hundred skins, contained in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, National Museum, American Museum of Natural History and the private collection of Mr. William Brewster, contains all together only four specimens in the molt, of which but two bear the date of capture.
In view of this scarcity of molting birds, we are compelled to judge of the molts mainly from comparing specimens taken before and after the plumage has been renewed.
Male.
— The young birds change the first plumage for that of the first winter in July or August.
This dress is as a rule scarcely different from the first plumage.
Some few individuals, however, show a few black feathers on the throat.
In February or March there is a molt of the feathers of the head and throat, and all the males that reach us from the south in the spring have a black throat, the extent and purity of the black varying in different individuals.
I have no green males in the annual molt nor after the molt is completed.
One specimen (No.
91,034, U.S.Nat.
Mus.
Coll.
), taken in Nicaragua, Feb. 23, 1883, shows the throat and head to be molting.
That this bird is not in its first spring molt is shown by the fact that some old throat feathers which have not yet been shed are black.
The plumage of the second spring is similar to that of the first, but the black throat is more complete and there are traces of chestnut on the breast.
The tail is also clouded with black, but as the specimen just referred to is not molting the tail, I think that this change is effected at the preceding annual molt.
It is probably at the next annual molt that 10 138 [1896. the chestnut and black plumage is acquired.
It is impossible to tell from an examination of spring males in the green plumage, how many years they remain in this dress, as the individual variation in the amount of change effected at a given molt is so great, that there is a complete series of intergrades from one extreme to the other.
Between the most advanced specimen and the adult chestnut plumage, however, there is quite a gap, and I have never seen any specimens like those figured by Wilson and Audubon.
The variation in the marking of spring birds is shown by the following table : Males, 1st.
and 2nd.
Years.
Tail green.
Tail partly black.
Trace of chestnut on rump.
Trace of black on head.
Throat-patch incomnlete (4) 4 13 5 1 7 1 1 12 Throat-patch c o mplete, little or no chestnut (14) Considerable chestnut on breast (12).
4 12 The spring molt is generally confined to the head and throat but in some second year birds it is more extensive and in one, (122,073, U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Washington, D. C, May 2, 1887), the body molt must have been nearly complete, while the tertials and indeed the wing feathers show scarcely a trace of abrasion.
Old chestnut colored birds have the plumage, especially above, edged with buff, which is lost by abrasion before the breeding season.
Female.
— Remains as the male in first winter.
Spring specimens differ in showing much abrasion but there is little if any spring molt.
Scolecophagus carolinus (Miill.).
Rusty Blackbird.
Male.
— Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
Only one molt a year, the change from winter to nuptial dress is effected entirely through abrasion.
Female.
— Molts as in the male.
Adult plumage always gray instead of black.
I have seen no molting birds of either sex, but Dr. J, A. Allen writes me that the young renew the flight feathers at their first molt, as in the allied genera.
Quiscalus quiscula (Linn.).
Purple Grackle.
Male.
— Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
The young birds molt the wing and tail along with the first body plumage and assume the adult plumage in its entirety the first winter.
There is no spring molt and very little effect is produced by abrasion, owing to the uniform color of the plumage, so that the nuptial plumage is scarcely distinguishable from that of winter.
Female.
— Molts as the male.
Plumage always duller.
Family PRINGILLID^.
A summary of the molting of the species of finches described below shows that thirteen species have no spring molt, while six species have a spring molt of the body feathers.
In Spinus tristis, Passerina cyanea, Ammodramus sandivichensis savanna, A. princeps and A. caudacutus, this seems to occur regularly every year.
In ^ the first two a radical change of color is eflTected, in the last three the new plumage is the same as the old.
In Hahia ludoviciana the extent of the molt varies, probably decreasing in succeeding years.
In four other species, Zonotrichia leucophrys, Z. albicollis, Spizella socialis and Melospiza georgiana, a partial spring molt occurs, less marked after the first year.
Hahia ludoviciana molts the tail the first spring, Ammodramus caudacutus molts it in many cases though probably not regularly.
Cardinalis cardinalis molts both wing and tail with the first plumage at the end of summer and Passerina cyanea and Ammodramus caudacutus molt the tail at this time.
Carpodacus purpureus (Gmel.).
Purple Finch.
Male.
— Plumages, first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter, adult nuptial.
I have not been able to examine any molting specimens of Carpodacus, but a large series of winter and spring specimens shows that no spring molt occurs.
The change to the pink plumage is evidently effected at an annual molt either the second year or still later.
The birds retain the brown dress during the first breeding season at least.
Fall specimens in brown plumage difier from spring examples in the loss of buflf" tints through abrasion, while pink birds lose the gray or brown edgings of winter in the same way.
The great predominence of brown birds makes it seem at least possible that some never acquire the pink plumage.
Female.
— Retains the brown plumage permanently ; there is no spring molt.
Pinicola enucleator (Linn.).
Pine Grosbeak.
So far as I can judge from winter specimens the account of the Purple Finch applies equally well to this.
Loxia curvirostra minor (Brehm).
American Crossbill.
Lozia leucoptera Gmel.
White-winged Crossbill.
The molting of the Crossbills is more complicated than would appear at first sight and there is probably great individual variation as to the time and extent of the change in coloration of the plumage.
Mr. W. E. D. Scott has shown that some males assume the red dress immediately upon losing the first plumage, while others are known to breed in the yellow or green dress.
The tints are subject to great individual variation, as also the purity of the red plumage, many specimens showing a greater or less mixture of green.
Furthermore, the red plumage may be partly replaced by green at a subsequent molt, as one molting specimen has the throat quite red while a majority of the new throat feathers, just coming in are green.
The annual molt of the Crossbill begins about August 1, (Somerset Co., Maine).
There seems to be a slight spring molt, most pronounced on the throat and breast.
Female.
— Retains the green plumage at all seasons.
AcantMs linaria (Linn.).
Redpoll.
While I have no molting specimens of the Redpoll for examination, I think from a comparison of a large winter series, that the change of plumage is effected in the same way as in Carpodacus.
The variation in the extent of the pink color on the breast of males is probably largely individual.
It is generally stated that the crimson patch on the head is intensified by a "scaling off" of the surface of the feathers but I cannot furnish any evidence upon this point.
Spinus tristis (Linn.).
American Goldfinch.
Male.
— Three j^lumages are recognizable, first, winter and nuptial.
The birds of the year seem to have more brown on the edges of the wing feathers which in the older birds are nearly pure white, but I am not sure that this is constant.
Annual molt occurs between the middle of September and the middle of October, and at about the same time the young bird renews its body feathers.
There is a complete molt of the body feathers in spring from about the middle of April to the middle of May, but none of the "wing feathers, not even the tertials, are renewed at this time.
Throughout the winter and spring the white edgings to the tail and wing feathers are being lost by abrasion, so that in the summer breeding dress the wings are almost entirely black.
The Goldfinch continues to have these two molts every year throughout its life, and the molting specimens present a very peculiar appearance in their mottled dress of brown and yellow.
Female.
— The female has exactly the same number of molts and plumages as the male.
Spinus pinus (Wils.).
Pine Siskin.
Plumages, first, winter and breeding.
So far as my material goes, there is indication of but one molt a year in this species, i. e., the annual molt at the end of summer.
Some abrasion takes place during the winter and spring, by which the buflf edgings to the feathers are lost and the markings are thus intensified in the breeding plumage and more strongly coustrasted with the white of breast.
The white edgings to the wings are also lost by abrasion.
A male taken Jan. 28th, (Cape May, N.
J.
), has the feathers of the throat and breast very much suffused with brown, so that the dark stripes are almost obliterated.
"Whether this is a peculiarity due to age or purely individual I am unable to say.
Plectrophenax nivalis (Linn.).
Snow Bunting.
3fale.
— Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
In the series which I have examined I have not detected any constant differences between the young of the year, and the adults.
There seems to be no spring molt in the Snow Bunting, but the remarkable change from the winter to the nuptial dress is effected entirely by abrasion, which probably is more marked in this species than in any other.
Furthermore, the abrasion is scarcely apparent until after the middle of February .^^ Female.
— Molts as in the male.
Poocsetes gramineus (Gmel.).
Vesper Sparrow.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
Molting exactly as in Melospiza fasciata which it so closely resembles in plumage.
Young of the year seem rather buffer than old birds.
^®See Stone, Science, 1893, p. 52; Chapman, Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., 1896, p. 9.
Ammodramus princeps (Mayn.).
Ipswich Sparrow.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
Molting exactly as in A. sandwichensis savanna.
Specimens taken March 15th, Atlantic City, N. J. and March 29th, Cape Charles^ Va., show the spring molt in progress.
Ammodramus sandwichensis savanna (Wils.).
Savanna Sparrow.
• Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
Another winter plumage occurs much browner than the usual one which may be characteristic of the birds of the year.
A complete annual molt occurs at the end of the breeding season, and a more or less complete molt of the body feathers takes place in spring.
Birds taken just before the spring molt show eflTects of abrasion, especially on the tertials and resemble July birds.
After the molt new tertials have been acquired and a general renewal of the feathers of the breast, head and rump has taken place, so that the birds are in most respects indistinguishable from September specimens ; the yellow stripe over the eye is also acquired at this molt.
Whether this spring molt is universal with all the individuals or occurs every year, I cannot say with certainty.
A series of specimens taken January 25-26 (Cape May, N.
J)., shows a good deal of variation in the amount of abrasion.
Ammodramus savannarum passerinus (Wils.).
Grasshopper Sparrow.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
After the annual molt the plumage of this species is subject to continued abrasion which materially alters the depth of colors by the following breeding season, the under surface becoming much lighter and losing much of the brown cast while the colors elsewhere are in sharper contrast.
In such material as I have examined I can find no trace of a spring molt.
The spotted first plumage is retained until about the middle of August.
A specimen taken Aug. 10, in Chester Co., Pa., shows the beginning of the molt of the body feathers while another Aug, 26, from the same locality, shows no sign of molt, this, perhaps, belonging to a later brood, Ammodramus henslowii (Aud.).
Henslow's Sparrow.
Such specimens of this species as I have been able to examine indicate molts and plumages exactly parallel with the last.
Ammodramus caudacutus (Gmel.).
Sharp-tailed Finch.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
After the annual molt the Sharp-tailed Finch is subject to great abrasion of plumage, which by March presents almost as worn an appearance as characterizes most birds in July or August.
In April occurs a complete molt of the body plumage, together with the tertials and sometimes the rectrices ; a specimen taken April 16 at Atlantic City, N. J., shows the new tail about half grown.
After the completion of this spring molt the birds are indistinguishable, except upon close examination of the wing feathers, from October specimens.
The feathers soon begin to show the effects of abrasion again and by August, just previous to the annual molt, the birds present about as dilapidated an appearance as can be found among any of our species.
The wear and tear upon the plumage of this species is doubtless due to its habit of living entirely among the coarse grass and sedges of the salt marshes, which may also have something to do with the unusual extent of the spring molt.
The young birds generally, but, perhaps not always, renew the tail when the first body plumage is molted at the end of summer.
The remiges are not renewed at this time.
The series of specimens, upon which the study of this species was based, consisted of upward of one hundred skins, taken at -Atlantic City, N. J., during every month of the year by Mr.
I. Norris De Haven and myself Ammodramus maritimus (Wils.).
Seaside Finch.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
In this species the spring plumage differs from the winter plumage only by abrasion, there being but one molt a year.
Not only are the blending olive and brown tints of the fresh fall dress quite worn away, but the whole plumage presents the appearance of having been trimmed with a pair of scissors.
It seems strange that in this species there should be no spring molt whatever, while in its nearest relative, the Sharp-tailed Finch, it should be so extensive.
Zonotrichia albicollis (Gmel.).
White-throated Sparrow.
Male.
— Five plumages may be distinguished, i. e., first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter, adult nuptial.
The difference between second and third, and fourth and fifth is often very slight, especially in the case of the latter two.
After the change to the first winter plumage the bird has a fairly well marked white throat, but the black crown stripes are much mixed with brown and the central stripe is quite dull.
In spring a partial molt occurs, practically confined to the thi-oat and head.
At this time many black and pure white feathers appear in the crown, the yellow superciliaries receive bright fresh feathers and more pure white feathers are acquired on the throat.
The black stripes of the crown are, however, still mixed with brown posteriorly, for the first season at least.
Subsequently, whether at the following annual molt or later I cannot say, the plumage of the head becomes still brighter, with the crown stripes iet black reaching back on the neck while the white throat is sharply defined against dark gray cheeks and breast.
I do not think there is any spring molt after the first year, but subsequent increase in the brightness of the markings takes place at the annual molt.
The bright markings when once attained are not lost again, as some of the handsomest specimens examined are fall birds, although it is possible that some birds never acquire the brightest markings to which I have referred.
Mr. W. E. D. Scott states that some birds acquire the highly colored feathers immediately after shedding the first plumage, judging the age of fall birds by osteological characters.
Female.
— Apparently has no molt in spring, and though it attains the yellow eye-brow and partly black crown stripes, it does not approach the brilliancy of the old male.
Zonotrichia leucophrys (Forst.).
'White-crowned Sparrt)w. Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
Besides the annual molt, a molt of the crown, tertials and many of the breast and intescapular feathers occurs in spring.
This is very marked in the first spring when the brown and buff crown is replaced by black and white.
Whether it continues to the same extent in subsequent seasons I cannot say positively, though the appearance of spring specimens would indicate that some molt always occurred at this season.
The full plumage once attained is not lost again, and spring and fall adults are hardly distinguishable.
Spizella monticola (Gmel.).
Tree Sparrow.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
There is only one molt a year, though a few odd feathers are often replaced during spring, probably when lost or damaged.
Breeding specimens show great abrasion, which brings the colors into much stronger contrast, but this is not apparent until after April 1st, so that there is scarcely any variation in specimens taken within the winter habitat.
Spizella socialis (Wils.).
Chipping Sparrow.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
When the young bird loses the spotted first plumage, at the end of summer, it acquires a winter plumage practically identical with that of the old birds except in the purity and extent of the chestnut crown.
In spring the dusky feathers of the throat are replaced by pure white ones and those of the crown by new ones, which are richly colored and have no dark spots.
Apparently the older birds do not molt at all in spring, the pure chestnut crown being gained entirely by abrasion of the dusky tips of the feathers.
Adults vary, however, in the purity of the chestnut crown acquired at the annual molt, some of them showing much mottling of brown.
In consequence of this a partial spring molt may be necessary in some individuals after the.
first season.
Some change is effected in the other plumage during spring and winter by abrasion.
Spizella pusilla (Wils.).
Field Sparrow.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
After the annual molt the winter plumage changes gradually by abrasion, and there is no spring molt except the occasional renewal of odd feathers.
The contrast between October and August specimens is striking.
The former have the back buff with reddishbrown centers and black shaft streaks, while the latter have reddishbrown backs with distinct black streaks.
Junco hyemalis (Linn.).
Snow Bird.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
No spring molt is apparent in the Snow Bird.
The brown tints of autumn disappear entirely through abrasion, but this is not marked until after May 1st.
Birds of the year are probably always browner than old birds.
Melospiza fasciata (Gmel.).
Song Sparrow.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
No spring molt occurs but abrasion is very marked, all the buff tints being lost in the spring bird,^ while the black streaks on the breast appear as if their ends had been cut off with a pair of scissors.
Melospiza georgiana (Lath.).
Swamp Sparrow.
Male.
— Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
The molt of this species appears to be precisely like that of Spizella socialis, which it so closely resembles in the pattern of its plumage.
The chestnut crown is acquired in spring as well as a certain proportion of white throat feathers.
The chestnut crown once acquired is not lost at the annual molt but some individuals do not seem to acquire it in its entirety, at least until the second year.
No spring molt seems to occur after the full chestnut crown is attained.
As in most Fringillida\ abrasion causes marked change in the general plumage during winter and spring.
Female.
— Apparently like the male, though generally with the crown patch less pure.
Passerella iliaca (Merr.).
Fox Sparrow.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
Apparently no spring molt occurs in this species apart from a slight renewal of the throat feathers in some examples.
The rusty red tints are to a great extent lost, especially on the head and neck, by the breeding season, but the abrasion is scarcely noticeable up to the time the bird leaves its winter habitat, so that specimens taken there, from November to March, are hardlv distinguishable.
Pipilo erythrophthalmus (Liun.).
Towhee.
Male.
— Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
There is apparently only one molt a year in the Towhee and, although the feathei*s are subject to abrasion during the winter .
and spring, scarcely any change is eflected in the coloration owing to the fact that they are not parti-colored.
The young birds assume the adult winter plumaije about the end of August, when they present a very peculiar mottled appearance.
The wing and tail as usual are not renewed at this time.
Female.
— Molts as in the male, the only difference in plumage being the substitution of brown for black in the adult.
Cardinalis cardinalis (Linn.).
Cardinal.
Male.
— Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
There is no spring molt ; the winter plumage shows extensive gray margins to the feathers of the back which are lost by the nesting season through abrasion.
In some specimens, evidently younger birds, these ede:iu2:sare brownish rather than grav.
Contrarv to the rule which governs others of our Fringillidre, the young Cardinal renews the rectrices and remiges at the end of the breeding season.
A specimen obtained Sept. 18, 1881, at Haddoufield, N. J. shows the first plumage nearly lost.
The primaries have all been renewed as far as the third, while the new tail, still showing the sheaths at base, is nearly full grown, except the middle pair of feathers, which are not quite two inches in length.
The renewal of the flight feathers in the first autumn in this species is a matter of great interest (see p. 117).
Female.
— Molts as in the male, a young female changing from the first to winter plumage (Tarpon Springs, Fla., Aug. 11, 1891), shows the wings beginning to molt as described above in the case of the male.
The adult plumages differ from those of the male in intensity of coloration, being generally gray and brown, though some Florida specimens are quite red.
Much of the brown tint of the lower surface in winter is lost by abrasion.
Habia ludoviciana (Linn.).
Rose-breasted Grosbeak.
The Rose-breasted Grosbeak exhibits probably the most complicated series of plumages of any of our smaller Xorth American birds.
Five regular plumages of the male and three of the female are recognizable, while the great range of individual peculiarity in the amount of change effected at a given molt produces many other variations.
I have treated the plumages and molts of this species at ranch length and have referred to them in other parts of this paper.
As some of my deductions may not meet with universal endorsement, it seems proper to state at the outset the nature of the material at my disposal while writing the paper.
This is as follows : First plumage, 1 ; first plumage, molting, 2.
Males in first winter, 12 ; in first spring, 10 ; in first annual molt, 2 ; in second winter, 5 ; in second spring molt, 2 ; in second spring, 12.
Females in spring, 8 ; annual molt, 1 ; winter, 2.
Besides this, I have examined the entire series in the U. S. National Museum, the numbers of which I have not recorded.
Male.
— There is in this species a complete annual molt and a more or less complete molt of the body feathers in early spring, generally including a molt of the tail in the first season.
Much abrasion occurs between these two molts and in feathers not molted in the spring it continues until the next annual molt.
The recognizable plumages are as follows : First Plumage [30,236, Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
July 1, 1892.
Beaverkill, N.
Y.].
Beneath white.
Above, head dull black, with buflTy superciliary and median stripes, all meeting on the hind neck.
Rest of upper surface olive-brown, mottled with blackish-brown.
Wing and tail (about half grown) olive-brown with spots and bands buffy-white.
First Plumage Molting [31,924, A. N. S. Phila.
July 6, 1891.
E. Hartford, Conn.].
Similar to the above, but with wnngs and tail of full dimensions, while the breast and abdominal tracts are newly molted buff feathers with dark centers.
The head and throat are also beginning to change to the following plumage.
Plumage of First Winter [28,502, A. N. S. Phila.
Aug. 10, 1879.
Winnebago Co., Iowa].
Beneath buff, throat somewhat suffused with pink, and bellywhite, many of the feathers with a central dash of blackish-brown.
Above much as in first plumage, but feathers of back and head more strongly edged with buffy-brown.
No specimens showing the molt from this plumage to that of the following spring have come under my observation ; birds in the latter plumage are as follows.
Plumage of First Breeding Season [1,029 Coll.
W. Stone].
Below, abdomen Avhite, breast pink, throat black, mottled with pink and white.
Above black, w'ith more or less traces of buff edgings, rump white somewhat mottled with black, flight feathers generally as in first plumage, greater coverts and generally the tertials black, tail partly black.
Annual Molt [1,028, Coll.
Wm.
Brewster.
Aug. 20, 1874.
Upton, Oxford Co., Maine].
Below, as in the following specimen, but with many black feathers remaining on the throat, above as in first breeding plumage, except the back which has molted into fall plumage.
Wings entirely molted except secondaries and outermost primaries.
The old wing feathers are olive-brown, the new jet black.
Winter Plumage of Second Year [1,027, Coll.
Wm.
Brewster.
Sept. 1871.
Mt.Carmel, 111.].
Differs from first fall plumage as follows : Belly whiter and throat and breast much more pink, feathers on back black, with comparatively narrow buff edgings.
Wing and tail jet black, with pure white spots.
Breeding Plumage of Second Year [34,225, A. N. S. Phila.
Haddonfield, N. J.
May 16, 1882].
Differs from first year as follows : Throat uniform, black down to the breast, which is brilliant pink.
Wings and tail jet black, with spots pure white, head and back solid black, rump pure white.
While the above descriptions give a pretty accurate idea of the seasonal variations of plumage in the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, they by no means cover all the peculiarities of plumage found in this variable species.
It seems quite possible that the male requires three years to gain the perfect plumage described above as the " breeding plumage of the second year " ; but different individuals differ so much in the amount of change that they undergo at the spring molt, that they present an almost unbroken series from one extreme type of spring plumage to the other.
It is, therefore, quite impossible to do more than separate them into two groups, with brown and black remiges respectively, the former representing one year old birds, the latter those of more than one year.^" The remiges, I think, are only shed at the annual molt, as is the rule in nearly all passerine birds.
The brown wing feathers of the fledgling are, therefore, retained until August of the next year.
I think they are all replaced by jet black feathers at this annual molt.
One spring specimen (1,029 Coll.
W. Stone), it is true, has one black feather in an otherwise brown wing, but this is evidently an exception, and the black feather may have been assumed in spring ; in any case, it can hardly be considered as evidence that the brown wings are retained for more than one year.
Furthermore, all the brown-winged birds I have examined which show the annual molt in progress, have new black feathers coming in.
The tertials, as usual, do not accord with the primaries and secondaries in the time of their molt.
Birds in the first winter plumage (i. e., with brown wings) almost always molt the tertials with the body feathers in spring, the new ones being jet black with white spots.
Two specimens before me, however, retained the old brown tertials throughout the breeding season.
An example of the other extreme is a specimen (No.
501 Coll.
W. Stone), a bird of the year, shot in September, which has just completed the molt from the first plumage to that of the first winter, has lost the brown tertials and greater wing coverts and has a new set of black ones which still have the embryonic sheaths adhering to the base of the quills.
Old birds, as a rule, do not renew the tertials in spring, though some of the most highly plumaged examples seem to have done so In judging of the renewal of these tertials, I have based my opinion on the condition of these feathers in spring specimens.
In some birds they are very much abraded so that the white spots appear to have been cat away, while in others they are fresh and show no abrasion at all (PI.
V, figs.
7 and 8).
The former I regard as acquired at the previous annual molt and latter at the spring molt.
^^ As already stated, the most perfect plumage may not necessarily denote an old bird, but perhaps one of exceptional vitality.
Though it is undoubtedly the fact that the successive plumages of an individual become more perfect, up to a certain point, at least, it is also quite likely that some individuals never reach the so-called perfect plumage.
The tail is generally shed at the first spriug molt and a new black one assumed,^^ though sometimes only a few of the feathers are changed, frequently only the middle pair.
In these latter cases the complete black tail is assumed at the next annual molt.
As regards the spring molt of the body plumage there is a great deal of individual variation.
In some specimens, especially in birds in their first spring plumage, this molt is practically complete, as far as the body feathers are concerned, while in others, a good many of the old feathers, showing much abrasion, are retained.
This often gives a mottled appearance to the interscapular region, while in the pink breast patch the old feathers may be recognized by their worn whitish tips.
One curious specimen (No.
31,922, A. N.S.
Coll., E. Hartford, Conn., May 11, 1891), has the pink of the breast thickly spotted with black.
Careful examination shows that but little molt has taken place on the breast ; the buflf margins, however, which bordered the feathers in the winter plumage, have been completely worn away, while the black portions being apparently less brittle have withstood the abrasion and remain as prominent as in the winter bird (see PI.
V, fig.
6).
Furthermore, the feathers of the interscapular region, which are acquired at the spring molt, seem to vary in character, some are jet black throughout, while others are bordered with very light buff on the sides.
These might be considered to be remnants of the winter plumage, but in many spriug specimens (notably in 1,029, Coll.
W. Stone, May 8, 1892) the feathers are fresh and perfect while if they had been acquired at the previous annual molt they would certainly have shown more or less abrasion.
These bufl^-edged feathers in spring birds do not necessarily denote younger birds than those having the the pure black feathers, since in the specimen (28,499, Coll.
A. N. S., June, 1881) which shows the least amount of spring molt of any in the series, such new feathers as have been acquired on the back are entirely black.
Female.
— Molts and plumages quite different from male.
So far as my material goes, there seems to be a partial molt in spring in addition to the annual molt at the end of the breeding season, but in many individuals the nuptial plumage is much abraded and shows but little renewal of the feathers.
There is a curious plum'^ I have not seen any specimen which shows this molt of the tail in progress, but I have seen such a specimen illustrating an exactly similar molt in Piranga erythromelas.
age of the female which I do not regard as belonging to the regular cycle of changes, but rather an abnormal tendency toward the color pattern of the male.
This differs from the normal female plumage in having the head and forepart of the back, sides of neck, and chin black, slightly edged with gray, the median crown stripe being obsolete.
Below white slightly tinged with yellow on the breast, where are also a few narrow shaft streaks.
The specimen described was taken in Chester Co., Pa., May 5, 1888 (No.
1,957, Coll.
W. Stone).
A similar one is in the U. S. Nat.
Museum Collection.
Passerina oyanea (Linn.).
Indigo Bird.
Male.
— Four distinct plumages are recognizable in this species.
First Plumage.
Much like the following but distinguished by the different structure of the feathers.
Plumage of First Winter.
[No.
841, Coll.
W. Sfone.
Sept. 30, 1891.
Chester Co., Pa.].
Reddish-brown above, with darker shaft lines on back, below quite buff, brownish on breast, with distinct dark shaft lines.
Breeding Plumage.
Brilliant blue above and below, varying as described below.
Winter Plumage of Adult.
Reddish-brown above, shaft stripes obscure, rump feathers more or less blue with brown tips below, tinged with brown, many feath■ers with bluish bases, which give it a mottled appearance.
Some specimens have much blue on the bases of all the feathers above.
The breeding plumage exhibits a great range of variation and the most brilliant and perfect dress is certainly not acquired before the second or third year.
The primaries and secondaries are only renewed at the annual molt, but the tertials and some of the rectrices are often molted in spring, when the brown body feathers are lost and the blue plumage acquired.
It is the irregularity in the extent of this molt that causes the variety in the breeding plumage of different individuals.
Old brown tertials of the winter plumage are frequently retained through the breeding season and also many of the old coverts as well as brown patches or single feathers on various parts of the body.
The white belly of the winter plumage also frequently escapes molt in the spring.
Individual variation in the extent of the molt is so great that the specimens cannot be separated in definite groups.
Fourteen spring and summer males show only six in which the molt of body feathers has been complete and no trace of brown feathers remain, but even some of these have one or two brown wing-coverts.
Eight of the fourteen have renewed the tertials in the spring molt while three have partially renewed them and three retain the old feathers.
Winter specimens of more than one year also show a good deal of variation in the amount of blue on the feathers.
Some which appear brown superficially, have the bases of the feathers quite blue ; while others have broader brown margins and but little blue.
Much abrasion takes place between the annual and spring molt but a scarcity of winter specimens and general lack of dates on such as I have, prevents a careful study of this matter.
The young birds of this species molt the tail at the close of the summer when they renew their body plumage but do not molt the wing feathers.
Females.
— Have but one molt a year, and the change in the nuptial plumage is due entirely to abrasion.
Whether the young renew the tail at the end of the summer, as in the male, I am uncertain.
Spiza americana (Gmel.).
Dickcissel.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
No spring molt occurs in this species, unless in the first season.
Family TANAGRIDJE.
Piranga erythromelas Vieill.
Scarlet Tanager.
The seasonal changes of this species are analogous to those of the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, though the individual variations do not seem to be so great.
Five regular plumages of the male are recognizable, as follows : 1.
First Plumage [No.
1,906, Coll.
W. Stone.
Aug. 17, 1895.
Chester Co., Pa.]."
Above olive, below yellowish-white, yellow on middle of the abdomen and crissura, breast and sides of abdomen coarsely spotted and streaked with olive.
Wings half grown, tail one-quarter grown.
2.
Plumage of First Winter [No.
830, Coll.
W. Stone.
Sept. 18, 1891.
Haddonfield, N.
J.].
Above olive, below olive-yellow, wing and tail brown, edged with olive, except the greater median and lesser wing-coverts, which are jet black.
3.
First Breeding Plumage [No.
34,001, Coll.
A. N. S. Chester Co., Pa. May 18, 1881].
Above and below scarlet, tail jet black, wings brown, edged with olive, except greater median and lesser coverts and tertials which are jet black.
4.
Plumage of Second Winter [No.
19,688, Coll.
Wm.
Brewster, Buncombe Co., N. C. Sept. 15, 1886].
Above olive, below yellow-olive, wings and tail entirely jet black, 5.
Breeding Plumage of Second Year [No.
716, Coll.
W, Stone.
Harvey's Lake, Pa, June 16, 1891], Above and below scarlet, wings and tail entirely jet black.
From these descriptions it will be seen that the dull brownish wing feathers of the first plumage are retained until the first annual molt, except the tertials which are molted in the spring when the red body plumage is first assumed.
The jet black tail is also acquired at this time in all the specimens that I have examined, except one.
In this the molt of the tail has been incomplete, only three black feathers having been assumed.
In many birds in the first breeding plumage a few olive feathers persist on the sides of the body and flanks and more rarely on the back.
Specimens in the plumage of the second winter also frequently show a few red feathers on these parts.
A peculiar plumage of the male which does not belong in the regular cycle, but which is of more than casual occurrence, has the scarlet of the normal plumage replaced by bright orange.
Other peculiarities, which are of rather frequent occurrence, are the presence of fed or orange feathers among the lesser wing coverts.
Specimens taken in August, showing the annual molt in progress, are striking looking birds.
One of these before me is about half molted ; the crown, ear coverts, interscapiilum, throat, sides of the abdomen, and spot on the breast are olive, while the hind neck, sides of head, rump, breast, center of abdomen and crissum are scarlet.
Specimens showing the spring molt are, of course, exactly the reverse of this, but the only one that I have seen was so far advanced that nearly all the green plumage was lost.
It was a bird entering upon its first spring, and showed the jet black tail about half grown while the brown remiges were retained and showed no signs of molt.
Specimens examined : First plumage, 1 ; first winter, 5 ; spring molt, 2 ; first breeding plumage, 14 ; annual molt 4 ; second winter 2 ; second spring molt, 1 ; second breeding plumage, 11.
Female.
— I have been unable to examine any specimens in the winter, but from a comparison of spring and fall birds, I should 11 think there was at least a partial molt in spring.
Family AMPELID^.
Ampelis cedrorum (Vieill.).
Cedar Waxwing.
Plumages : first, winter, nuptial.
Only one molt a year occurs in this species and but little effect is produced by abrasion, except that the plumage becomes lighter, especially above.
The molt is very late ; in a specimen taken Sept. 27, it has just begun while young birds molt the first plumage (?)
of the body in November as shown in specimens taken Nov. 2-22.
Family HIRUNDINID^.
The swallows exhibit certain peculiarities in their molt which have already been described (p. 111).
In addition to this they differ from most Passerine species in having the first plumage better developed and more nearly like that of the adult.
This plumage is generally retained much longer than in most birds and the young of most of our swallows seem to start on their migration with little or no molt having taken place.
Sharpe and Wyatt think that swallows molt in their winter quarters, but in the case of Tachydneta and Chelidon this is certainly an error and Dr. J.
A. Allen^^ has shown that it is equally erroneous in the case of Stelgidopteryx.
Some individuals probably start on their migration before the molt has begun.
Certainly great quantities of swallows, mainly Tachydneta smd Chelidon, congregate along the southern New Jersey coast in August, the majority of which are surely migrants, and many of them are molting.
In the same way, molting Tachydneta occur in abundance in the lower Delaware Valley in October, where there are none in the summer.
An adult Chelidon erythrog aster, taken at Philadelphia, Sept. 1, with the one described beyond, had just begun to molt on the head, but showed no trace of shedding any flight feathers.
This bird would hardly have staid to molt, as this species is rarely seen here after that date.
Progne subis (Linn.).
Purple Martin.
The Martin apparently has no regular spring molt, but some young males acquire scattered black feathers on the under parts at this time.
The complete steel-blue plumage is not acquired till the end of the second summer (or perhaps the third ?).
•" Auk, 1895, p. 37-1.
Petrochelidon lunifrons (Say).
ClifT Swallow.
From such series of this bird as I have examined, I should judge that it had no spring molt ; whether the young molt the flight feathers at the close of the summer I cannot say, as none of my specimens show any molt.
Chelidon erythrogaster (Bodd.).
Barn Swallow.
The scarcity, in collections, of adults in winter plumage or in the molt prevents a complete account of the molting of this species.
I have only one specimen showing the annual molt in progress, which was taken Aug. 7, 1878, at Philadelphia.
New feathers are coming in on the breast, throat, and back, and the tail is just beginning to molt.
None of the remiges have been cast.
Another specimen, taken Sept. 1 at the some locality, shows a complete molt just finished.
As I am not sure whether the young molts its flight feathers with the rest of its first plumage I cannot say whether this is an adult or bird of the year, but my impression is that the young do not molt the wing and tail at this time and that the specimen is, therefore, an adult.
In any case it presents one curious question : The outer rectrices are only .35 in.
longer than the next pair (as in all young summer birds).
Now all the spring birds that I have examined have the feathers much longer (.75-1.25 in.
longer than the next pair), so that there must be a molt of part of the tail at least, in the spring.
I do not think there is any spring molt of the wnngs or body feathers.
Tachycineta bicolor (Yieill.).
White-bellied Swallow.
Plumages : first, winter, nuptial, adult winter.
Male.
— A large series of this species, collected in southern New Jersey illustrates the changes of plumage very satisfactorily.
The annual molt in the adults takes place from July 20 to September 1, at which latter date the winter plumage is generally completed.
The birds of the year do not begin to molt until the first week of September and are in full plumage, indistinguishable from the adults, by October 15.
Apparently there is no spring molt, but the whitetips to the wing feathers disappear by abrasion.
Female.
— Two plumages of the female are found, one indistinguishable from the male, the other much duller and quite brown in the spring.
The latter, I think, is the plumage of the first year ; at any rate, in one specimen, it is certainly assumed at the molt of the first plumage.
Clivicola riparia (Linn.).
Bank Swallow.
I can find no evidence of a spring molt in this species, but the plumage shows considerable abrasion at this season.
I have seen no molting specimens.
Females.
— Resemble the males at all times.
Stelgidopteryx serripennis (Aud.).
The above remarks apply equally to this species.
Family LANIID^.
Lanius borealis Vieill.
Northern Shrike.
There seems to be a partial molt in spring, but not extensive enough to produce a change in the plumage.
One specimen, taken March 20, shows new feathers coming in on the breast and head.
Lanius ludovicianus Linn.
Loggerhead Shrike.
A specimen taken October 20, Haddonfield, N. J.
(No.
1 ,429, Coll.
W.iS.
), which shows no sign of molt on the wings, except the tertials, and appears, therefore, to be a bird of the year, has nearly completed the body molt aud has likewise renewed the tail.
Spring specimens show a slight renewal of feathers, as in the preceding species.
Family VIREONID^.
The uniform coloration of the feathers in the Vireos helps to obscure what little abrasion takes place in the plumage ; and notwithstanding the fresh appearance of the spring dress, I do not think there is a spring molt of any great extent.
The few winter specimens that I have examined show no signs of molt.
The young in the first winter are like the adults, and the males and females are alike.
There arg, therefore, only three plumages : first, winter and nuptial, the last two are often scarcely distinguishable.
Vireo olivaceus (Linn.).
Red-eyed Vireo.
Spring birds are, perhaps, duller colored, but show but little signs of wear.
A specimen taken Aug. 27 has nearly completed the molt of body feathers while it is also molting the tail.
The wings show no signs of molt, except the tertials which are generally renewed with the body plumage, so that the specimen must be a bird of the year.
Vireo gilvus (Vieill.).
Warbling Vireo.
Vireo philadelphicus (Cass.).
Philadelphia Vireo.
Molt as in the preceding.
The winter plumages have respectively more buff and olive-yellow beneath than the nuptial dress.
No young birds in the first molt have been examined.
Vireo flavifrons Vieill.
Yellow-throated Yireo.
Vireo solitarius (Wils.).
Solitary Vireo.
These two birds seem to correspond exactly in the condition of their plumages.
The tertials of some individuals show so little abrasion and have the light edgings so perfect that it seems as if they must be renewed in the spring.
A young V. flavifrons in the first molt, is renewing only the body plumage.
Vireo noveboracensis (Gmel.).
White-eyed Vireo.
A young bird in first molt is renewing its tail exactly as in V. olivaceus.
Spring specimens show more abrasion than any of the other Vireos, and the edge of the tertials are very much worn, in striking contrast to the last two species.
Family MNIOTILTID^.
A more or less complete spring molt of the body plumage seems to be the rule in the Warblers but as is usually the case with spring molts we have a very unsatisfactory series of specimens available for study, and are thrown back largely upon a comparison of spring and autumn material.
Species of which I have actually seen specimens in the process of molting in spring are Dendroica blackburnice, D. discolor, D. castanea, D. palmarum, D. tigrina, D. eoronata, and Geothlypis trichas.
The question of course arisesas to the extent of this molt after the first year.
The young of most Warblers in the first autumn differ materially from the adults, and an extensive molt is necessary in the following spring, but upon once gaining the adult plumage they do not change their appearance materially at the next annual molt and, therefore, a complete spring molt in subsequent years is not necessary.
Some species, however, change regularly, twice a year.
Probably nearly all Warblers have some spring molt, but in many it is restricted to the head and breast after the first season.
Regarding the relation of their seasonal plumages, the species may be grouped as follows : 1.
Adult male at all seasons and young of the year practically alike, Seiurus, Helmitherus, Sylvania mitrata (winter plumage with light tips on black parts).
2.
Winter and nuptial dress of adult male different : Mniotilta varia, Dendroica pensylvanica, D. maculosa, D. striata, D. castanea, D. hlackhurni(E. 3.
Adult males alike at all seasons, young of the year different : Geothlypis, Sylvania canadensis, S. pusilla, Setophaga, Helminthophila pinm, H. ruficapilla, Dendroica cestiva, D. virens, D. ccerulescens, D. vigorsii, D. tigrina, D. discolor, Compsothlypis.
Regarding a few I ara in donbt.
So far as I know, no Warblers molt the flight feathers in spring, nor do the young molt them with their first plumage.
Mniotilta varia (Linn.).
Black and White Warbler.
Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
31ale, — The worn condition of the plumage of some birds would indicate that the spring molt is not as complete as in most Warblers.
Some individuals do not molt the tertials at this time while others certainly do.
The plumage of the first winter has only the sides of the body streaked and the streaks dull.
The adult winter plumage is as heavily marked as the nuptial dress but has the throat white.
Female.
— Remains in the plumage of the first winter.
Helmintliophila pinus (Linn.).
Blue-winged AVarbler.
Plumages: first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter, adult nuptial.
Male.
— Spring birds are always much worn on the tertials and back, and probably have only a partial spring molt.
The yellow cap is wanting in the first winter, the lores are dull and the under surface quite dull.
Some spring males are dull and tinged with olive below, with the cap ill-defined, these I take to be first year birds.
Adults are brilliant yellow.
Female.
— Like male, with the same two forms of spring plumage.
Helmintliophila chrysoptera (Linn.).
Golden-winged Warbler.
Apparently the same plumages as the above.
What I take to be the plumage of the first spring is tinted with yellow below.
The female has the black replaced by gray.
Helminthopliila ruficapilla (Wils.).
Nashville Warbler.
Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
The plumage of this species shows still more abrasion in spring, and there would seem to be little or no spring molt at this season, after the first year.
Birds in the first winter lack the pure gray on the head, and show little or no chestnut on the cap.
Helminthophila peregrina ( Wils.).
Tennessee Warbler.
Apparently has the same number of plumages and molts as the last.
Spring birds are much worn.
Helmitherus vermivorus (Gmel.).
Worm-eating AVarbler.
Plumages : first, winter, nuptial.
There is scarcely any variation in the plumage of this species after the nestling stage.
Spring birds show but little abrasion.
Compsothlypis americana (Linn.).
Parula Warbler.
Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
The spring molt is probably not very marked, as the birds show much abrasion.
Fall adults have the breast markings fringed with yellow, which is lost by the breeding season.
How much variation there is in the nuptial plumage I cannot say.
I had thought the dark-breasted individuals to be birds of the second or third year, but Mr. Brewster has shown that they represent a geographical race, C. americana usnece.
Perhaps the younger birds of this race will still be found to be lighter colored.
Dendroica tigrina (Gmel.).
Cape May Warbler.
Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
A nearly complete spring molt of body plumage takes place the first spring, and a good deal of abrasion follows during May, which brings out the spots on the back and throws all the markings into stronger contrast.
Birds in the first winter are very dull and tinged with gray, while adults in winter diflTer little from spring birds, except that all the feathers are broadly bordered with olivegray or yellow.
This plumage changes to the adult nuptial dress wholly by abrasion, which is very strongly marked in spring adults.
Dendroica sestiva (Gmel.).
Yellow W'arbler.
Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
There is a complete molt of body feathers the first spring, but it is probably not so extensive in subsequent years, as some spring birds show that the tertials have not been renewed.
Young in first winter are very dull, with the top of the head quite green.
Adults in winter are scarcely distinguishable from spring birds.
Dendroica caerulescens (Gmel.).
Black-throated Blue Warbler.
Plumages : first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
The freshness of the flight feathers in some spring specimens seems to indicate that they are sometimes renewed with the rest of the spring plumage.
Others are so worn that they probably molted but little at this time.
Most fall adults have white edgings to the throat feathers, but others are absolutely indistinguishable from the the freshest spring specimens.
Females are always in the brown plumage, like the males in the first winter.
One old (?)
specimen (May 19, Coll.
A. X. S., No.
29,592) is quite gray above.
Dendroica ooronata (Linn.).
Myrtle Warbler.
Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter, adult nuptial.
A good series of winter and spring examples of this species from southern Xew Jersey shows the spring molt very satisfactorilv.
The entire plumage of the head and breast is renewed as well as the greater part of the iuterscapulum.
The tertials are not molted.
Old birds, in fall, have more or less gray feathers on the back and black centered feathers on the breast, but they all continue to molt in spring.
A spring bird, which I take to be of the second or third year, has the black on the breast uniform, not broken up by white edgings to the feathers.
Dendroica maculosa (Gmel.).
Magnolia Warbler.
Plumages and molts as in the last.
Adults in winter difler from birds of the year in the heavy stripes on the sides of the bodv, and large black centers to feathers of the back.
Spring birds of the second or third year have the interscapulum solid black, all the way to the yellow rump.
Dendroica pensylvanica (Linn.).
Chestnat-sided Warbler.
Plumages, first, fii-st winter, nuptial, adult winter.
Spring molt rather more extensive than in the last two species, and the adult in fall always more distinct from the nuptial plumage, only difiering from the bird of the year in the chestnut stripes on the sides.
The tertials are not renewed in spring.
Dendroica caernlea (Wils.).
Cerulean Warbler.
According to the British Museum Catalogue, the winter adult is practically like the spring bird, so that the plumages will be as in D. ccemle^eens.
Dendroica castanea (Wils.).
Bay-breasted Warbler.
Exactly like D. pensylvanica in number and relations of plumage.
Dendroica striata (Forst.
), Black-poU Warbler.
Plumages, first, first nuptial, first winter, adult winter, adult nuptial.
This species, unlike the preceding, renews the tertials in spring.
^^ hat I take to be the first nuptial plumage shows remains of the olive winter dress on the crown and sides of the neck.
Adults in fall are much whiter beneath than the young and have heavier streaks above.
Females remain in a plumage like that of winter.
I am uncertain as to the extent of molt in spring.
Dendroica blackburniae (Gmel.).
Blaekburnian AVarbler.
Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
Some individuals molt the tertials in spring, others do not.
Adults differ from young in winter, in the brighter yellow throat and breast.
Dendroica virens (Gmel.).
Black-tbroated Green Warbler.
Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
After the first season, the spring molt is much less extensive than in the' species just preceding and in some individuals there seems to be little or no molt.
Adults in fall have the black throat as in spring, but all the feathers are edged with white, which is afterwards lost by abrasion.
Dendroica vigorsii (And.).
Pine Warbler.
Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
After the first year there is little or no spring molt.
Winter adults are nearly like summer examples.
Dendroica palmarum hypochrysea Pvidgw.
Yellow Palm Warbler.
Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
The spring molt is restricted to the breast and crown, and the back shows much abrasion.
Dendroica discolor (Vieill.).
I'rairie Warbler.
Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
The adult birds in autumn are practically like spring specimens but have the black stripes on the breast obscured by yellow edgings.
Birds in their first winter plumage lack the chestnut on the back and have but few black streaks below.
The tertials are not renewed in spring.
Seiurus aurocapillus (Linn.).
Orenbird.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
Spring birds are practically indistinguishable from autumn examples and there is probably a pretty extensive spring molt.
June and July specimens show much abrasion compared with those taken in April.
Seiurus noveboracensis (Gmel.).
Water Thrush.
Seiuras motacilla (Vieill.).
Louisiana Water Thrush.
The above remarks apply equally well to these species but without a series of winter specimens it is impossible to ascertain the extent of spring molt in any Seiurus.
Geothlypis trichas (Linn.).
Maryland Yellow-throat.
Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
The spring molt seems confined to the breast, throat and sides of the head.
Adults in winter have the hood much obscured by lighter edgings, while young have it reduced to a patch on the ear coverts and sides of neck.
Female.
— Sometimes has no spring molt whatever.
Geothlypis Philadelphia (Wils.).
Mourning Warbler.
Plumages and molts apparently as in the preceding species.
Geothlypis agilis (Wils.).
Connecticut Warbler.
Plumages and molts as in G. trichas.
The spring molt is mainly restricted to the throat.
Adults in spring and autumn are practically indistinguishable below, but the former show abrasion above.
Young in the first winter have the throat and breast brownish instead of gray.
Geothlypis formosa (Wils.).
Kentucky Warbler.
Plumages and molts as in G. trichas.
I have no specimens of the young in their first winter and cannot say whether the black mask is complete then or not.
Icteria virens (Linn.).
Yellow-breasted Chat.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
There is scarcely any difference in spring and autumn specimens, except that the former show abrasion above.
The spring molt ia probably restricted to the under surface.
Sylvania mitrata (Gmel.).
Hooded Warbler.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
jNIr.
Wm.
Palmer,^^ has shown that the male of this species acquires the full black hood the first year, and that the female varies in succeeding molts in the amount of black, finally attaining the full hood also.
Sylvania pusilla (Wils.).
Wilson's Warbler.
Plumages, first, first winter, nuptial, adult winter.
Spring and fall adults are practically alike, and there is evidently a spring molt.
Young of the year lack the black cap.
Females 23 Auk, 1894, p, 237. have more or less black on the head and perhaps sometimes attain the full plumage of the male, as in the last species.
Sylvania canadensis (Linn.).
Canadian Warbler.
Plumages and molts as in the last.
The adult in autumn is exactly like the spring bird.
Setophaga ruticilla (Linn.).
American Redstart.
Plumages, first, first winter, first nuptial, adult winter, adult nuptial.
Spring molt is mainly restricted to the under surface in the first season at least and probably afterward.
Young in their first nuptialdress differ from that of the first winter only in the acquisition of a few scattered black feathers ; new tertials are sometimes acquired in spring also.
Some winter adults have gray edgings to the black feathers, others are indistinguishable from spring birds.
Family MOTACILLID^.
Anthus pensilvanicus (Lath.).
Tit Lark.
PlumageSj first, winter, nuptial.
There is considerable molt of the body plumage in spring.
Specimens taken in January and February are much abraded and resemble June birds.
Family TROG-LODYTIDiE.
Mimus polyglottos (Linn.).
Mocking-bird.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
There appears to be no spring molt, at least no specimens show traces of it.
April birds show much abrasion, especially on the plumage of the back, and the buff" tints of winter disappear entirely from the lower surface.
Galeoscoptes carolinensis (Linn.).
Catbird.
Plumages and molt apparently as in the last.
Some spring birds have the plumage quite fresh, but abrasion produces very little effect in this species, as shown by a comparison of spring and midsummer examples, so that I do not consider this as indicating a spring molt.
Furthermore, none of the winter specimens examined show any indications of molt.
Harporliynclius rufus (Linn.).
Brown Thrasher.
Plumages and molt as in Mimus.
Spring birds are somewhat abraded, especially on the head, while the spots on the breast appear " clipped " at the tip and somewhat bifurcate.
Some fall birds are rather pruinose on the head and back.
One of these specimens in the molt is proved to be an old bird, while other undoubted old birds have the more tawny plumage, so that I am not sure whether this slightly different coloration represents a bird of any particular age or is merely an individual variation.
Thryothorus ludovicianus (Lath.).
Carolina Wren.
The molts and plumages of this bird are exactly parallel to those oi Harporhynclms rnfxis aud, so far as I can ascertain, there is no spring molt.
The feathers of the crown are much abraded in all spring birds, and in late summer the abrasion of the entire plumage is extreme.
Troglodytes aedon Vieill.
House Wren.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
There is no spring molt in the House Wren and the contrast between spring and fall specimens, caused by abrasion, is striking.
Troglodytes hiemalis Yieill.
Winter AVren.
Plumages and molt exactly as in the House Wren.
Cistothorus stellaris (Licht.).
Short-billed Marsh Wren.
Plumages, first, Avinter, nuptial.
There is a complete spring molt of the body feathers in this bird as shown in a series taken at Tarpon Springs, Fla., April 15th.
They become very much abraded by July.
Cistothorus palustris (Wils.).
Long-billed Marsh Wren.
Molts as in the preceding.
* Family PARID^.
Sitta carolinensis Lath.
White-breasted Nuthatch.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
There is no spring molt, and, excepting on the flight feathers, abrasion is not very apparent until after the breeding season.
Sitta canadensis Linn.
Red-bellied Nuthatch.
Molt as in the preceding.
Parus bicolor Linn.
Tufted Titmouse.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
No spring molt, and but little eflfect produced by abrasion.
Parus atricapillus Linn.
Black-capped Chickadee.
Parus carolinensis Aud.
Carolina Chickadee.
Molt as in the preceding, all plumages very similar to each other.
* Cerihia apparently molts exactly as in Troglodytes aedon.
.Family SYLVIIDJE.
Begulus satrapa Licht.
Golden-crowned Kinglet.
Plumages, first, wiuter, nuptial.
No spring molt.
Begulus calendula (Linn.).
Ruby-crowned Kinglet.
Plumages and molt as in the last.
Mr. C. W. Beckham-* states that the young male generally acquires the red crown patch when the first plumage is molted but not always, and that the female never acquires it.
Several variations in the color of the red patch have also been described.
Polioptila cserulea (Linn.).
Blue-gray Qnatcatcher.
Plumages, first, Avinter, nuptial.
While none of the February or April specimens show signs of molt, I think that some individuals have a partial molt in spring and I have examined a specimen of P. albiveiitris Lawr., showing the spring molt in progress (March 19th.).
Family TURDIDiE.
Turdus mustelinus Gmel.
Wood Thrush.
Plumages, first, winter, nuptial.
Although I have no winter or early spring specimens of the Wood Thrush, I consider that there is only a slight spring molt if any.
Turdus aliciae Baird.
Gray-cheeked Thrush.
Turdus ustulatus swainsonii (Cab.).
Olive-backed Thrush.
The above remarks apply equally to these species.
Turdus aonalaschkae pallasii (Cab.).
Hermit Thrush.
I have examined a large series of Hermit Thrushes, including winter specimens, and can find no traces of a spring molt.
The abrasion is more marked than in the last two species.
Turdus fusoescens Steph.
Wilson's Thrush.
Plumages and molt as in the preceding.
Merula migratoria (Linn.).
Robin.
Sialia sialis (Linn.).
Bluebird.
Plumages, first, winter and nuptial.
No spring molt occurs, but some abrasion is seen in spring birds.
2*Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1885, p. 625.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
Plate IV.
Fig.
1.
Wing of Merula migratoria with molt started ; shaded parts represent the new feathers.
Quill No.
6 has been shed but the new feather has not yet appeared.
Fig.
2.
Wing of Tachycineta bicolor ; molt of primaries well advanced.
Fig.
3.
Wing of Chcetura pelagica, with molt of primaries well advanced.
Fig.
4.
Tail of Tachycineta bicolor, with molt of rectrices half completed.
Fig.
5.
Breast feather of Antrostomus vocifertis, first plumage, bearing a down feather at its tip (much enlarged).
Fig.
6.
Tip of breast feather in sheath of Sturnella magna, winter plumage ; forcing out a first plumage feather on its tip (enlarged).
Fig.
7.
Feather from breast of DoUchonyx oryzivorus Ad.
$ showing light border which is lost by abrasion.
Fig.
8.
Terminal part of tertial of Sturnella magna, winter plumage.
Fig.
9.
Same in late summer, showing loss of entire terminal portion even with the tips of the secondaries ; also loss by abrasion of all the light border and spots, including the entire terminal part of the barbs, from where the light color beo^ins to their extremities.
■^o Plate V. Fig.
1.
Tail of Dryobates pubescens showing the beginning of the molt.
The third quill has just been shed and the tip of the new one has not yet appeared.
Fig.
2.
Tail of Galeoscoptes carolinensis showing the molt under way.
Fig.
3.
Wing of Ceryle alcyon showing the beginning of the molt with the fourth primary, instead of the innermost as is usually the case.
Fig.
4.
Wing o^ Plectrophenax nivalis with molt of primaries and tertials in progress.
Fig.
5.
AVing of Dendroica cestiva showing molt of primaries and tertials almost complete, while the secondaries are about half grown.
Dotted line represents the position of feathers when the growth is completed.
Fig.
6.
Feather from breast of Habia ludoviciana showing the unworn projecting black tip.
Dotted line indicates the original size of feather, the edge having been lost by abrasion (enlarged).
Fig.
7.
Terminal portion of tertial of Habia ludoviciana in winter plumage showing white border spot.
Fig.
8.
Same from spi'ing specimen with white portion lost by abrasion.
February 4.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair, Twenty-one persons present.
The deaths of the following members were announced : — Peter F. Rothermel, August 15, 1895; Henry Hazlehurst, January 11, 1896; Jesse S. Walton, January 30, 1896; H. Ernest Goodman, M. D., February 3, 1896.
February 11.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
The death of Charles Wachsniith, a correspondent, February 7, 1896, was announced.
A paper entitled " A Note on a Uniform Plan of Describing the Human Skull," by Harrison Allen, M. D., was presented for publication.
February 18.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair Thirty-six persons present.
A paper entitled "Contributions to the Life History of Plants, No.
XII," by Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication and referred to the Publication Committee.
February 25.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Forty-five persons present.
The death of Owen Jones Wister, M. D., February 24, 1896, was announced.
Papers entitled as follows were presented for publication: — " The Coloring Matter of the Aril of Celastrus Scandens," by Ida A. Kellar.
"The Crystallization of Molybdenite," by Amos P. Brown.
The following were elected members: — Homer E. Hoopes, A. Feldpauch, Vickers Oberholtzer, J. Edward Farnum, George L. Farnum, H. W. Wenzel, Morris Earle and Arthur N. Leeds.
The following were ordered to be printed : — 12
