SYNOPSIS OF THE POLAR HARES OF NORTH AMERICA.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
Owing to the extreme scarcity of specimens of skins and skulls with reliable data of our American Polar Hares in the museums of this country or of the Continent no attempt has yet been made to study this group in a comprehensive Avay.
To this fact together with the prevailing opinion that the Arctic representatives of our land mammal fauna retain their specific constancy throughout the breadth of their habitat the animals which form the subject of this paper owe the neglect and consequent misconception of their relationships which have so long existed.
Having occasion to identify a summer specimen of Polar Hare from Alaska recently presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by Dr. Benjamin Sharp I was led to a critical examination of the series in our museum.
The subject proved of so much interest that I secured the loan of some specimens from the Smithsonian Institution which finally led to a general correspondence with collectors in this country and in England and the examination of a series of skins skulls and alcoholic specimens of American Polar Hares representing over thirty individuals together with about fifteen specimens of Siberian and Swedish Polar Hares.
Besides these I secured data from correspondents which covered the examination of nearly thirty more specimens more than half of which were American species.
Especial mention is due to the courtesy of Messrs. Goode and True of the Smithsonian Institution for their liberal assistance in the loan of their specimens and furnishing of data.
To Mr. Outram Bangs I am indebted for a most valuable set of Newfoundland specimens and the use of a set of drawings of the type skull of L. a. bangsi executed by Mr. Blake.
Messrs. Walter Faxon of the Museum of Comparative Zoology William De Winton of the British Museum and Lud wig Kumlien of Milton CollegeWisconsin have also furnished me with timely aid in the loan and examination of specimens and the use of private field notes and references to literature.
The illustrations on plates VI VII and VIII are reproductions of an exceptionally fine set of photographs made by H. Parker Rolfe of Phila1elhia.
Plates IX and X contain figures of the type skull of L. a. bangsi drawn by Mr. J. H. Blake of Boston.
The remaining figures on Plate X were drawn by myself.
Although the series of specimens which I was enabled to bring together for study is much larger than any yet examined it is very deficient in examples from certain parts of America especially Baffin Land the Arctic Archipelago and the interior of British America.
On this account some of the opinions advanced in this paper may be found to need revision but it is believed that sufficient material has been examined to establish the main conclusions arrived at and also to indicate the direction in which our further investigations of these mammals should be turned.
HISTORY AND NOMENCLATURE.
Owinoto the confusion of some authors as to the difference between the European and American Polar Hares it will be necessary first to briefly outline the nomenclature of the former.
Linnaeus in the tenth edition of the Sijstema Naturce was the first author to impose a tenable name upon the Polar or Arctic Hare of Europe the Lepus alhus of Brisson.
He gave it the name Lepus timidus including under that title both it and the Common Hare Lepus europcBus Pallas. Pallas in 1778 in distinguishing between the two not only gave a new name to the Common Hare but renamed the Polar Hare Lejms variabilis and by this name it has since been known to most authors.
Tlie description of Linnseus unmistakably refers in all particulars to the Polar Hare rather than to the Common Hare which however he included under the name timidus.
Pallas' name for the latter should be retained while that of Linnaeus continues to belong to the former.
No series of the Polar Hares of Russia Siberia or the mountains of Central Europe being available for study in this country attempt will not be made to give a synopsis of their status or nomenclature.
While there is no doubt that the Old AVorld is represented by at least three forms of the timidus group for which there are available names in literature it only concerns us in this connection to fix the type form and habitat of L. timidus for sake of comparisons beiSyst.
Nat 1758 p. r7.
'Nov.
Sp.
Glires 1778 p. 30.
Hbid pp.
130. tweea it and the hares of North America.
A careful consideration of the question induces nie to adopt the Scandinavian animal as the type of L. timidus from the fact that Linnteus' conception of the Arctic Hare when he wrote his original diagnosis was based primarily on those frequenting the localities near his Swedish home.
 Captain John Ross was the first author to publish a description and new name for the American Polar Hare. Owing to the fact that he gave this animal the name  Lepus arcticus Leach and that Leach a few pages further on names and describes the same specimen as  Lepus glacialls some confusion of synonymy has resulted.
Owing to the scarcity of the work in which these descriptions occur and to make the status of the case more clear they are herewith giveu. Later authors recognized the American Hare as distinct from the European but none of them until Gray in 1843 used the name arcticus for it but adopted Leach's later name glacialis. In 1877 Dr. J.
A. Allen revived Ross' name on account of the priority of  Linnaus' 1758 description refers to Fauna Suecica 1746 No.
19 p. 8.
Ross' Voy. 1819 2d octavo ed..
Appx IV p. 151 Written by Ross.
 Ibid p. 170 Under caption   Desc.
JV.
Sp.
Anim. Discov.
   in Arc.
Keg.
by Dr. W. E. Leacli . '
Ross' description p. 151 1. c is as follows  Genus Lepus Hare.
Species Leus arcticus Leach.
The only one of this species was shot in lat.
73 37 on the west side of the Straits.
It was nearly the same size as Lepus timidns the common Hare  the body was white except that a few solitary black hairs longer than the rest were dispersed over every part and which appeared to be rapidly coming away  the tips of the ears and the short hairs within the ears were black  tail short and white.
It was shot on the first of September.
Another shot by a Master of a Whaler in May at Hare Island Greenland
 differed very little from the above.
Dr. Leach thinks it to be very distinct from the common White Hare of Scotland  Lepus alhus Brisson and equally so from the Lepus variabilis Pallas.
See Appendix No.
V. Ross' reference to  Appendix No.
V is a mistake as Leach's description comes in the latter part of appendi.x IV page 170.
It reads as follows   Genus Lepus of Authors iHare. ''
Species Glacialis.
Albus vertice et dorso pilis nigricante fuscis albo fasciatis sparsis collo lateribus nigricante abloque raixtis auribus apice extremo nigris.
''This animal which will neither agree with the iepns aZM.s of Brisson nor the Lepus variabilis of Pallas both of which are now before me is of the size of the common Hare Lepus timidas and of a white color.
The back and top of the head are sprinkled with blackishbrown hair which is banded with white  the sides of the neck are covered with hairs of the same color interspersed with white.
The extreme tips of the ears are tipped with black intermixed with white  the insides of the ears have a few black hairs mingled with the white. 
I am sorry that the skeleton which would in all probability have furnished a good specific distinction was not brought home.
 See Baird Mam.
N.
Amer. 1857 p. 577 foot note.
paging of bis description of arctlciis.
Dr. Allen further gave Leach sole credit for this name and was induced by the difficulty of specifically separating the American from the European Hare to constitute the former a  variety  of the latter so as to make it stand trinomially Lepus timidus arcticus Leach.
As I have already attempted to show our American forms are quite distinct from those of Europe and the most proper formula for typical arcticus north of Baffin Land is Lepus arcticus  Leach  Ross.
In the same paper I have described two new forms Lepus arcticus bangsi representing the dark southeastern race of arcticus and Lepus grmnlandkns a strongly characterized species which appears to be peculiar to Greenland and Grinnell Land.
To these is now added a fourth Lepus tschuktschoncm Nordquist from the west coast of Alaska.
A skin without skull feet or limbs from near Great Slave Lake N. W. Territory dated May 1877 No.
13350 Sm.
Inst.
 and in full summer pelage indicates the existence of an interior geographical race so much lighter in color than L. a. bangsi as to indicate that it should be separated under another name.
The most diligent search in this country however has failed to reveal another summer skin from that region and the condition of the one in hand does not warrant its use in this connection.
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION AND VARIATION.
The American Polar Hares confine their habitats very closely to the faunal areas designated by Dr. J.
A. Allen' as the  Barren Ground and Alaskan Arctic.
The most southern points of their distribution yet recorded beginning in the east are Bay St. George Newfoundland 1. c. Solomon Island and Ungava Labrador 1. c.  Fort Churchill' Fort Rae 1. c Great Bear Lake' Yukon Valley and mouth of Kuskoquim River' Alaska.
A line connecting these points runs northwest from latitude 47 in Newfoundland to latitude 57 in northern Labrador thence directly west across Hudson Bay to Fort Churchill and northwest along 9 Araer.
Nat. 1896 pp.
251 252.
10 Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. 1892 PI.
VIII And.
 Bach. Quad.
N. Amer 1846 I p. 248 state it is reported from Nova Scotia.
Tliis is not authenticated.
'Richardson Faun.
Bor.
Amer  iSliO I p. 221.
'3 Nelson Rep. N. Hist.
Alasita 1887 p. 271.
Richardson 1. c p. 222. the eastern drainage of the Mackenzie to its mouth in latitude 67.
The distribution between Great Bear Lake and Nulato is uncertain but may be restricted to the Yukon drainage southwestward to Kuskoquim Bay BehringSea in latitude 60.
North of this line the Polar Hare is likely to be found in greater or less abundance as far as explorations have reached.
The Greenland Hare according to Fabricius' abounds throughout that country.
His observations were probably restricted to the southern half of Greenland but they equally apply to the nortliern sections.
It is also found on the west side of Robeson Channel and Hall Basin in Grinnell Land and on the northeast coast of Greenland in latitude 75.
The Baffin Land Hare in its typical form occupies the northern half of the Barren Ground Fauna of America north of latitude 70 exclusive of Alaska and the habitat of grcenlandicus.
Its subspecies bangsi may be provisionally restricted to the country east of Hudson Bay including south Baffin Land.
The Polar Hares of the southern interior west of Hudson Bay as already stated probably constitute another race of ardicus while the SiberioAlaskan species occupies the remaining portions of the  Alaskan Arctic  range of the Polar Hare in the northwest.
The causes of geographic variation in arcticus and its subspecies are nowadays so well understood as far as they relate to color characters as to need little comment.
It is interesting to note however how they are correlated with the variations of some other animal forms inhabiting the same areas.
In the extreme north where it is never dissociated from snowcovered areas ardicus practically retains its winter coat throughout the year.
In those southern areas where snow largely disappears for a short summer season we find an assumption of colors to correspond with the environment blackest in rocky fogclouded Newfoundland and hoary in the arid gray wastes of the interior.
On the verdant humid shores of Alaska a very distinct Old World species in sootybrown summer dress takes the place of its eastern congener.
When we come however to inquire into the origin of the Greenland species with the peculiar dental characters which seem to separate it not only from its Polar allies but from all other members of the genus the problem is more difficult.
It is not unlikely that 5Faun.
Gronl. 1780 p. 25.
'Teilden in Nares' Voy. 1878 II Appx. p 204.
 Zweite Deutsche Nordpolarf. II 1874 pp.
165167. the character of the food procurable in extreme nortliern Koalities as compared with that ot' tlie more southern has been a factor in the devehipnient of the sUnider protruding incisors.
In northern Greenhuui.
phuitlife is not only greatly reduced in size and number of species from that of Labrador but the ditticulty of procuring it is enhanced by the depth and long continuance of the snow in the former locality.
For many months in the year the Greenland Hare must subsist entirely on dwarfed plants whicli it uncovers auil reaches by scratching away the snow' while the Labrador animal is living without exertion on the twigs leaves and branches of a large variety of bushes and shrubs.
The character of the iliet in each instance naturally accounts for the relatively weaker dentition of the northern animal and we may believe that the projecting form of incisor was the outcome of the needs of the animal in rooting among snow and stones for its scant repast.
To insure such an armature the arc of the tooth must have a larger radius and hence the tooth itself a greater length bringing its root farther back upon the maxillary than the sharply curved perpendicular massive form of the twigeating animal.
Again we see how the projecting form of incisor tooth meeting its opposing member at a triturating angle of 45.
must of necessity have a greater relative vertical resistance than opposing pairs of teeth which meet on the same plane or at an angle scarcely appreciable.
As a result we have the narrow deep incisors of granlandicus and the long slender premaxillary and ramus enclosing them.
By this means the incisor sulcus is not only diminished but the weakness resulting from its possession is remedied by a special functional provision which tills it with the cenientumlike scale as the animal approaches maturity.
It may be stated that the Polar Hares of America contrary to the rule of specific stability in circumpolar animals have proved no exception to the protean character of the many members of the genus Lepus on this continent.
On the other hand they emphasize that fact and form a group apparently more sensitive to the minute alterations of a Polar environment than any other of the Arctic vertebrata.
Contrary to what we should expect it does not appear that our Arctic Hares decrease in size as we go south.
The average measurements of Xorth Greenland Hares are less than those of the series taken in Newfoundland and it will be noted that the See Feilden.
in Appx.
Nares' Voy.
1S7S.
11. pp.
204 205. west Alaskan Hares are considerably larger than any others from either liigher or lower latitudes.
The length of ear which the laws of variation lead us to suppose would increase southwardly is actually less in Newfoundland than in Labrador Baffin Land and Greenland while the hind foot follows a reverse order being longer in the south than in the north.
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON SEASONAL 8E5UAL AND JUVENILE PHASES OF COLOR.
The Polar Hares of all countries and latitudes undergo a double annual moult of the entire pelage taking place during late spring and early autumn.
Throughout their more southern distribution the contrast between the perfect summer and winter coats in color texture and quantity is very marked.
As their habitat nears the Pole these sea.sonal differences diminish so that it is difficult to distinguish at a distance the midsummer hares of North Greenland and the Arctic Archipelago from the same animals in their snowy winter dress.
There is but one color character which remains constant to all members of the group at all ages and seasjns the world over namely the black extreme lips of the ears.
In winter this is the only exception to the prevailing whiteness which characterizes every American form of Polar Hare.
In Scotland Ireland and parts of Europe and Asia the autumnal change of color is incomplete in the Polar Hares which inhabit the more temperate parts of the range of Lepus timidia of the Old World.
This peculiarity scarcely assumes the dignity of a racial or geographical character owing to its inconstancy some individuals in a given neighborhood changing to a pure white winter pelage while others acquire the grayishbrown or hoary dress which was named canescens.
by Nilsson' for the Swedish variety and hibernicus by Bell' for the Irish animal.
In America I have found no instances which may be said to be analogous to this variation.
The Newfoundland Polar Hare reaches a more southerly distribution than any of the Old World forms but I have seen no specimens nor know of authentic instances of its failing to become pure white in winter unless a few gray hairs on the fore part of the ears may be called an exception.
The number of skins showing intermediate stages of the molt which would enable me to outline the process of change from winter  Ofver.
Ved.
Akad. 1844 p. 1.33.
20 Brit.
Quad. 18.37 p. 341. to summer and from summer to winter dress is very small in the series available and those which I have seen appear to differ in the manner of moltinfj from that outlined by Dr. J.
A. Allen for the American Varying Hare Lepus amerieanus. An adult female taken at Bay St. George Newfoundland October 16th 1895 No.
3756 Col. of E. A.
 0.
Bangs appears to be undergoing a bleaching process which affects with remarkable uniformity every part simultaneously.
There is no ragged appearance caused by the pres.
ence of patches of old hair anywhere.
The summer fur appears to have uniformly about half fallen giving place to a growing but still short underfur of white which will speedily lengthen into the mature winter fur.
The feet and hinder bases of ears are unmixed white.
The leaden gray of inner flanks and lower head and neck and the ashygray head are little changed from midsummer shades but the whole back sides and ears are about two shades lighter throughout owing to the disposition of the old over fur and the outgrowth of the new.
There are no specimens in the series illustrating the style of spring molt.
In general terms the spring change of more southern American examples consists in the acquisition of black ears a tawny gray head and dark ashygray upper parts including the chin throat neck and breast  the feet and belly are also more or less shaded with gray and leaden hues but the greater part of the belly and tail remain white.
This diagnosis applies to the eastern subspecies L. ardicus bangsi and in great measure to the pallid form which frequents the southern Barren Grounds west of Hudson Bay.
In species L. tschuktschorum of Alaska and northeast Siberia the ears are marbled blackishbrown and white and the upper parts head and neck are blackishbrown resembling much more closely the colors of the Asiatic and European than the American type.
In typical northern arcticus and grcenlandicus the summer coat never 
attains a dark appearance except in the young but close examination shows a greater or less admixture of clear gray hairs over the upper parts most numerous on the head and ears where it is generally accompanied by a tawny suffusion.
In some instances these gray hairs are so sparse as to make the animal practically indistinguishable save in texture and density of fur from winter specimens.
2Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
N. Hist 1894 pp.
107128.
So far as I am able to determine there are no secondary sexual color characters in the Polar Hares of America.
The young at birth as well as in the more advanced foetal stage are as dark or even darker colored than their parents in full summer pelage.
In grcenlandicus they are fully and thickly haired some time before birth and resemble in color and color pattern much faded summer skins of arctlcus from Great Slave Lake.
The inner posterior half of the ears is white their tips and inner borders broadly marked with black the remainder of the ear rusty gray.
The pelage is remarkably long and well developed for an embryo.
The soles of the hind feet are as dark as the back their uppers white.
The forefeet and the tail are white throughout.
With increasing age the young of the northern forms assume a lighter colored pelage and it becomes nearly as white as that of their parents ere the winter fur begins to replace it.
In the south the halfgrown young are marked very similarly to their adult associates but with a stronger fulvous or brownish tinge among the gray.
HABITS.
I find very few satisfactory accounts of the habits of any of our American species of Polar Hare.
The literature on this subject mainly consists of brief allusions to the animal by Arctic explorers and some of the most observing of these seem to have formed a very imperfect acquaintance with the animal.
Richardson's account in the Fauna Boreali Americana is the best one relating to Lepus arcticus of the interior of British America.
He says   It is not found in wooded districts hence it does not come further south on the line of the Mackenzie and Slave Lake than latituds 64.
It was found in latitude 75 on the North Georgian Islands.
Although it does not frequent thick woods it is often seen near the small and thin clumps of spruce fir which are scattered on the confines of the Barren Grounds.
It seeks the sides of the hills where the wind prevents the snow from lodging deeply and where even in the winter it can procure the berries of the Alpine arbutus the bark of some dwarf willows or the evergreen leaves of the Labrador teaplant ledum.
It does not dig burrows but shelters itself amongst large stones or in the crevices of rocks and in the winter time its form is generally found in a wreath of snow at the base of a cliff.
The Polar Hare is not a very shy animal and on the approach of a hunter it merely runs to a little distance and sits down repeating this manoeuvre as often as its pursuer comes nearly within gunshot.
   According to Indian information the Polar Hare brings forth once in the year and from two to four young at a time.
Respecting the Greenland Hare Captain Koldewey of the GermanArctic Expedition of 186970 writes' The European hare is remarkable for its long and rapid hasty flight.
The Greenland Hare on the contrary sits as if nailed down in its rocky refuge however near the hunter may pass to him.
Sometimes one sees the mountain slopes dotted with white spots which from their motionlessness might be taken for snow  but they are only white hares.
They are about the size of our own hares but their flesh like that of the Alpine Hare is insipid.
Hare hunting in Greenland often gives rise to the drollest scenes.
Their hearing appears to be even weaker than their sight.
Payer once stood near a hare which was startled by repeated firing but had confined its flight to a few steps.
The creature was nibbling the moss quietly.
Payer took out his sketch book and drew it in all the different positions which in its uneasiness at the conversation and laughter of his companions it assumed.
This relates to the hares of northeastern Greenland.
H. W. Feilden in the Appendix to Nares' Voyage to the Polar Sea thus describes the Hares of north Grinnell Land   The Polar hare was found though in scanty numbers along the shores of Grinnell Land and its footprints were seen on the snowclad ice of the Polar Sea by Captain Markham and Lieutenant Parr in lat.
83 10' N. a distance of about 20 miles north of the nearest land.
    On February 14 two weeks before the sun reappeared at midday the temperature minus 56 I started one from its burrow a hole about four feet in length scraped horizontally into a snowdi'ift.
I have no doubt the same burrow is regularly occupied as this one was discolored by thefeet of the animal and a quantity of the fur was sticking to the sides  all around the hare had been scratching up the snow and feeding on Saxifraga opposUifolia.
Even where exposed to the wind this hardy plant had delicate green buds showing on the brown withered surface of last year's growth.
The hare does not tear up this plant by the roots but nibbles off the minute green shoots.
The number of young that we found in gravid females varied from seven to eight which is much in excess of that produced in Great Britain by Lepus variabilis from whicli naturalists have found dif22 Germ.
Arc.
Exp. Mercier's transl. 1874 p. 483. ficulty in separating the Arctic species.
    We find Lepus glacially inhabiting the most northern land yet visited and attaining its normal weight eight to ten pounds under apparently very adverse circumstances.
Still I must say it is sparsely diffused and we found that after killing a pair or two out of each valley that afforded any vegetation the race seemed to be extirpated in that district.
Referring to the Alaskan Polar Hare Lepus tscJmktschorvm Mr. E. W. Nelson says '  The open country of the Yukon delta is their place of greatest abundance so far as I was able to learn.
There in May 1879 I found thern very common.
The snow was nearly gone and while travelling along the small channels between the islands in the pale twilight which marks the nights at that season we saw many hares playing about on the banks.
They were often in small parties of from three to five or six and were not very shy.
 '1  While camped in this vicinity at that time I found them to be almost entirely nocturnal in their habits rarely moving about in daytime even during the gloomy days when the sky was obscured by dense low lying clouds.
Although they are nocturnal in their habits they see very well in the day and it is extremely difficult to surprise one in its form.
Usually it spies the hunter before he gets within gunshot and leaves the spot in great haste. 
During most of the year these animals are essentially solitary but during April and May they gather into small parties and sometimes as many as a dozen or more may be found on a single hillside.
After declaring that he is sure this hare voluntarily takes to the water and crosses streams 30 yards in width in its wanderings Mr. Nelson continues   In severe winter weather they seek the shelter of willow or alder patches on the slopes of sheltered ravines or in other comfortable situations but as a rule they are characteristic of the open Arctic barrens and on the wide expanse of desolate snow their tracks are among the few evidences of life the traveller finds in crossing the Alaskan tundras in winter.
KEY TO SPECIES AND SUBSPECIES Cranial characters.
I.
Upper and lower incisors strongly and regularly curved meeting within the arc of a circle mutually described by their ex Eep.
Nat.
Hist.
Col. Alaska 1887 pp.
271273.
24 posed outer faces.
Upper incisors rooted ou the inferior bases of the premaxillaries.
Diameter of upper incisor wider than deep its face strongly and broadly grooved.
la.
Nasals Compressed and narrowed anteriorly  bony palate longer than width of postpalatal fossa  narrow incisive foramina terminating opposite anterior alveolus of pm.
1  narrow premaxillary process falling short of base of nasal  breadth of rostrum ojjposite bases of pm.
T shorter than distance from alveolus of W to alveolus of posterior incisor total length of adult skull never exceeding 100 mm.
95 to 99 mm.
 molars narrow rounded  arcticns.
lb.
Similar to la  hangd.
Ic.
Nasals broad equilateral flattened  bony palate shorter than width of postpalatal fossa  the wide incisive foramina reaching nearly opposite base of P5L2 broad premaxillary process reaching to or beyond base of nasal  breadth of rostrum equal to or greater than distance between alveolus of pm.
1 and the base of corresponding secondary incisor  total length of adult skull always exceeding 100 mm.
101 to 115 mm.
 molars very broad and angular  tsehuktschorum.
II.
Jaws prognathous  upper and lower incisors meeting at angles of 35 to 50 degrees.
Upper incisors rooted on the anterior floor of the maxiliaries.
Diameter of upper incisor deeper than wide its slender sulcus filled with a functional indurated striate cementum approaching the consistency of enamelled dentine at the cutting edge.
2a.
Nasals compressed and narrowed anteriorly  bony palate shorter than width of postpalatal fossa  incisive foramina reaching opposite anterior alveolus of pm J  narrow premaxillary process falling short of base of nasal  breadth of rostrum opposite bases of pm.
1 equal to or shorter than distance between the base of pm.
1 and the apex of the incisive foramina  total length of adult skull exceeding 100 mm.
 molars broad angular very massive as compared with slender incisors  grcenlandicus.
External characters.
I.
Size medium length of hind foot h times that of ear from crown.
Tail always white.
Upjier body fur in summer dark tawny gray to nearly pure white.
la.
Summer fur ears black hack and sides dark gray rump blackish  bangsi.
lb.
Summer fur  ears grayishblack  back and sides hoary gray belly and vent pure white  Interior subspecies 
Ic.
Summer fur  ears grayishwhite  back rump and sides.
white sprinkled with gray ardicus.
Id.
Similar to Ic  grcenlandicus.
II.
Size very large  hind foot 1 times as long as ear from crown.
Tail dusky above in summer.
Upper body fur in summer grayish or blackishbrown.
2a.
Summer fur  ears sooty brownishblack and gray their posterior margins white back blackish smokebrown becoming grayishbrown on sides rump darker  tschuktschoi'uni.
Genus LEPUS Linnaus.
Lepiis Linnaeus Systema Naturae 1758 p. 57.
Type L. tiniidus L. 1.
Lepus aroticus '' Leach  Ross.
Baffin Land Polar Hare.
Lepiis arctictis'Ros Ross' Voy. 8vo ed. II 1819 appx.
iv p. 151.
Type from lat.
73 87 Baffin Land southeast of Cape Bowen.
Lepus glacialis Leach Ibid  Under Chap.
'Descr.
N. Sp.
Anim.
Disc in Voy.
to Arc.
Keg.
' p. 170.
Same type.
Lepus timidiis var.
arcHcus J.
A. Allen Mon.
N. Amer.
Rod. 1877 p. 288 in part.
Lepus arcticus  Leach  Ross Rhoads Amer.
Nat. 1896 p. 252.
Geographic distribution.
 Northern Baffin Land and the Arctic Archipelago  intergrading southeastward into subspecies bangsi and southcentrally into a gray pallid race.
Habitat.
 Open rocky barrens and tundras preferring in summer the borders of thickets  most abundant on rocky and hilly sea coasts  always avoiding the shelter of trees or bushes but retreating to rock crevices for escape from an enemy.
Color.
 Summer pelage white interspersed over back moie or less sparsely with long grayblack and brownpointed hairs but not sufficiently to greatly alter the prevailing whiteness.
Ears and face grayer with a tawny shade the former with black tips.
nter pelage pure white everywhere except tips of ears which are black.
Summer pelage in more southerly districts darker intergrading into subspecies bangsi.
Cranial characters.
 Total length of skull twice the greatest breadth.
Nasals broad and flattened posteriorly narrowed and compressed anteriorly their greatest breadth 2i times greatest length their bases reaching behind the superior prolongation of premaxillaries.
Supraorbital frontal processes widely and deeply indented posteriorly highly and broadh' arched and upraised above the frontal plane.
Posterior interorbital constriction tumid arched high above anterior frontal plane and wider than alveolar length of molar series.
Upper anterior incisors rooted at the inferior maxillopreraaxillary sutures the termini of incisor roots marked by decided lateral osseous convexities of the rostrum.
Incisors broader than deep transverse exceeds the longitudinal diameter the anterior upper pair each deeply and widely grooved by a single sulcus on the inner face.
With the skull minus mandibles resting on a pilane horizontal surface the chord of the arc described by the exposvd incisors is vertical and the radius of this arc is about oneeight.h iVo 6 basilar length of skull. Lower incisors rootedi anterior to proTI.
Incisive foramina reaching to pm.
1  suddenly broadening and then contracting at base.
Palatal bridge longer than width of incisive foramina.
Palatal foramina opposite dividing alveoJus of second and third premolars.
For measurements see table pages 374 375 General remarks.
 As only one specimen of the Baffin Land' Hare and that consisting merely of head and neck skin with the skull of a j'oung adult animal has come to hand it is impossible to furnish a description and measurements of typical adult arcticus as compared with its southeastern subspecies bangsi.
The descriptions of older authors who have handled summer specimens however agrees substantially with the above diagnosis.
The skull which was taken from the above mentioned skin by myself I have considered typical of the form described by Ross and on this basis rests the separation of the Greenland Hare from arcticus.
Mr. Ludwig Kumlien referring to the hares of south Baffin Land states that  Many do not undergo any change of color during summer and I doubt if it be more than a partial change with any.
I have seen pure white specimens during all the summer months and occasionally one about half gray.
 In a communication dated Milton Wis. March 4 1896 Mr. Kumlien writes me   I saw no gray hares at any season and I was told at Washington by Dr. Emil Bessel that Capt.
Hall made the same observation For a comparison between the cranial and external characters ot arcticus and timklus see Amer.
Nat. 1. c pp.
252 253.
 Notes on Mam.
of Cumb.
Sd. Smiths.
Misc.
Coll. No.
15 1879 p. 53. as regards the hares of Baffin Land.
This statement was included in my mss.
of Bulletin No.
15 1. c. and crossed out by the final proofreader leaving my bare statement.
Mr. Kumlien brought four specimens of Cumberland Gulf hares to the United States.
One of these No.
12946 Sm.
Inst.
 a skin in white pelage lacking head is the only one remaining the rest having been lost or acci dentally destroyed by fire at the Wisconsin University.
No other Baffin Land specimens being discoverable we are forced to rest our assumptions of the cranial characters of the hares of that region on the single skull which has come to hand.
The apparent discrepancy between the dark color of this summer specimen and that reported by Mr. Kumlien in the above quotations is explainable.
An examination of the itinerary of the Howgate Polar Expedition shows that Mr. Kumlien was absent from Baffin Land between the 6th of July and the 31st of August which more than covers the short period in which the Polar Hares of that latitude retain their full summer pelage.
The  gray  phase noted by him was the intermediate condition of molt.
Cajjtain Hall's statement may have related to the more northern form.
Lepus ardicHS and its subspecies bangsi may be cranially distinguished from timidus of Sweden by the greater relative height and breadth of skull to its length by the upraised anvilshaped supraorbital processes and the relatively short broad incisive foramina.
Taking summer specimens of southern Sweden and Labrador strictly comparable on account of latitude the external characters separating arcticus from timidus are striking the former being dark plumbeousgray above with black ears and unicolor white tail the latter rusty brownishblack with darker ears of the same color and bicolor gray and white tail.
Typical arcticus undoubtedly resembles closely in summer pelage the hare of North Greenland L. yrcenlandicus.
Specimens examined.
 Baffin Land Niatilik 1 bead and neck skin with skull.
Interior form N. W. Territory 1 skin 2 skulls.
Lepus arcticus bangsi Rhoads.
Newfoundland Polar Hare.
PI.
IX figs.
1 2 fe 3.
PI.
X figs.
1  2.
Lepus arcticus 3ifjV Rhoads Araer.
Nat  1896 p. 253.
Type from Codry Newfoundfound No.
3752 ad.
 Col. of E. A.
 O. Bangs.
Collected by Ernest Doane Aug. 3 1895.
Geographic distribution.
 Newfoundland northeastern Labrador and southern Baffin Land.
Habitat.
 Hiding by day in rock piles on the coasts of Cumberland Gulf.
Starting up out of range and running up the mountain sides to escape the hunter.
 Kumlien.
High rocky hills of Newfoundland descending in severe winters to lower grassy levels but never in woodland.
Hiding by day among rocks or under a bush.
 Doane.
Color.
 Adult summer pelage entire back and upper sides including neck shoulders and outer surfaces of thighs uniform dark grizzled gray faintly suffused with tawny.
A pinch of hairs from near the middle of back shows the following color pattern  under fur fine tawnywhite basally becoming tawny at distal end  overfur white or black at base in about equal proportions the coarser blackbased hairs black throughout the finer whitebased hairs with terminal half black interrupted by a subterminal band of white or pale tawny.
Lower head including chin lower neck nape forebreast to forelegs lower sides edges of thighs and rump dark pluhibeous gray flecked with very long slender white hairs.
Lower breast belly vent and tail white bordered by a nearly clear plumbeous edging which separates the ventral from the abdominal regions and joins the dark rump along the inside of thighs.
Inner anterior border of hams sides of hind feet and toes and lower surfaces of forelegs white thinly intermixed with leaden.
Outer surfaces of fore and hind legs and superior surfaces of the feet tawny gray.
Ears and space between them black becoming grayish at base and with a narrow whitish outer posterior margin from near base to tip.
Upper head including cheeks and nose grizzled huffy gray appreciably lighter than the gray shades of the back.
Eyelids wliitish edged with black.
Whiskers weak and sparse white and black in equal proportions the longer black hairs tipped with white.
Winter pelage entire fur exclusive of ears white.
Extreme tips of ears black the median anterior borders of ears grayish  inside of ears blackish.
Summer young twothirds grown very similar to adults of same season but more fulvous above the ears grayer the basal half of back hairs leaden their terminal half tawny brown with gray and black tips.
Cranial characters. ' ot distinguishable from those already given for arcticns.
Measyrementi taken in flesh  average of four adults total 26 For measurements of type hangsi see table pp.
374 375. length 600 millimeters hind foot 164 ear from crown 84  tail vertebrre 60.
Skull total length 97  greatest breadth 49  greatest diagonal length of nasal 41  greatest length of mandible 76  greatest breadth of mandible 47  alveolar length of upper molar series 17.8.
General remarks.
 This form has the most southern distribution of the Arctic Hares of America.
It is found about eight degrees farther south than the most southerly locality inhabited by the Lepns timidus group of the Old World and twelve degrees south of the southernmost habitat of our Alaskan representative.
As already stated it is quickly distinguishable from timidus by its clear blackishgray summer coat and black ears.
It owes its separation from arcticus to the greater average temperature and humidity of its environment intergrading with the parent stock across the barren grounds of Baffin Land.
From L. tschaktschonim it is easily separable on account of smaller size and its black ears and bluish grizzled cast contrast decidedly with the sootybrown shades of the Pacific coast animal.
From the form inhabiting central British America the exact amount of difference is not determinable owing to lack of specimens.
Specimens examined.
 Newfoundland 5 skins 6 skulls  Labrador 5 skins 10 skulls.
Lepus groenlandicus Rhoads.
Greenland Polar Hare.
Pis.
VI VII  VIII figs.
1.
Pi.
X. figs a 6 7LepHs lacialis Peters Die Zweite Deutsch Nordpolarf. II 1874 pp.
164167 pi.
2.
Lepus grmilandiais Rhoads Amer.
Nat. 1896 p. 254.
Type from Robertson's Bay lat.
78 Greenland.
No.
1486 ad.
 
 Col. of Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila.
Collected by C. E. Hite for the Peary Relief Exp. Aug. 2 1892.
Geografhic distribution.
 Greenland and Grinncll Land.
Iceland 
Habitat.
 Everywhere quite numerous in southern Greenland but preferring secluded places and the snowy mountains.
 Fabricius.
Rocky hillsides keeping closely to snow patches in summer.
 Heilprin.
On the plains and mountains at all seasons though never numerous.
 Dr. Pansch fide Peters 1. c.
Color.
 Adult summer pelage of type white suffused anteriorly with light tawny and sparingly sprinkled with gray over upper head and ears  back with scattering black gray and tawnytipped hairs.
Tip of ears black.
Tail sides and lower surfiices pure white.
Whiskers black and white.
Halfgrown young in July Misspelled ' Robinson's Bay ' in the original description.
and August like adult but darker owing to greater abundance of gray and tawny hairs and the leaden underfur.
Appearance of young and old at a distance at all seasons white.
A pinch of hairs from near middle back presents the following color pattern  short underfur very fine and silky white  overfur silky white with rarely scattering blackpointed hairs and a few very long spinous hairs with the basal twothirds black and the terminal onethird white with a black tip.
Winter pelage No.
1047 A. N. S. Phila.
Port Foulke Greenlaud pure white throughout except the black ear tijs which are mixed with white hairs.
Whiskers white.
Cranial characters. ToioX length of skull twice the greatest breadth.
Nasals narrow compressed their greatest breadth half their greatest diagonal length.
Superior premaxillaries barely reaching bases of nasals.
Supraorbital processes more greatly developed and widely flaring than in arcticus.
Posterior interorbital constriction narrow its width considerably less than alveolar length of upper molar series.
Upper anterior incisors rooted on the maxillaries nearly halfway from the inferior maxillopreraaxillary sutures to pm.
1  the termini of roots lying within the inferior lateral plane of the rostrum but forming a marked interruption of the inferior rostral profile viewed laterally.
Incisors slender prolonged deeper than broad transverse less than longitudinal diameter the anterior upper pair in adults multistriate the normal sulcus of inner face peculiar to all other members of the genus being so filled with a calcareous process as to obliterate the depression the face of tlie tooth presenting a more or less even rounded and enamelled contour marked where the groove normally belongs by irregular longitudinal striae.
With the skull minus mandibles resting ''' I have submitted teeth oi jrrvnlandicus to my friend Dr. J. C. Curry a dentist of Philadelphia for examination of this character.
He defines it in the following words   The groove on the face of the tooth is filled with a grayish opaque homogeneous substance which on first examination would appear to be continuous with the enamel.
As it approaches the cutting edge its density increases and it is more striated in appearance.
A continued maceration of the tooth however will enable the operator to separate this structure from the enamel groove with a clear line of cleavage and with care the part may be removed entire.
In the alveolus this structure is not contintious throughout the length of the root but seems to have its beginning in a little triangular flap about one quarter of an inch from the entrance of the tooth pulp into the base of the incisor.
Like the tooth itself this sulcus filling has a higher per cent of inorganic matter as it approaches the cutting edge varying from about 40 per cent organic at base to 10 per cent at tip.
At the incisive edge its composition seems more closely allied to that of the cementum of the osseupright on a horizontal plane the chord of the arc described by the exposed incisors forms an angle to the horizon of 45 to 50 degrees and the radius of this arc is about onefifth  lo the basilar length of the skull.
Roots of lower incisors extending to base of pra.
2.
Incisive foramina terminating opposite pm.
1  widest at or near base.
Palatal bridge shorter than greatest width of incisive foramina.
Palatine foramina opposite middle of pm3 .
Meaaurements.
'  Average of four adults hind foot 147 millimeters  ear from crown 98.
Skull  total length 102  greatest breadth 48  greatest diagonal length of nasal 41  greatest length of mandible 75  greatest breadth of mandible 49  alveolar length of upper molar series 19.
General remarks.
 The peculiar incisor dentition of this species so far as I have been able to compare it with other members of the genus Lepus is quite unique not only in the obliteration of the sulcus of the upper anterior pair but in the extension of the roots of both upper and lower incisors the former being planted far behind the inferior anterior maxillary border and the latter reaching the bases of the second premolars.
Externally grwnlandicus will probably not be found to differ materially even in its summer dress from typical northern arctieus.
Pabricius whose experience was mainly confined to southern Greenland twice asserts that its summer coat does not change in color from that of winter.
Whether green landicus will prove to be entirely distinct from the hares inhabiting Iceland and the extreme ous tooth than anything else.
While a formation analogous to this structure is seen in some adult specimens of all the species of Polar Hares I have examined in no case does it assume the prominent and functional character which it invariably attains in adult gnenlandi.cus.
In the others it manifests itself as a liomogeneous deposit along the bottom of the sulcus  in the Greenland animal it is a laminate bistriate structure having its inception near the base of the tooth in a honeycombed hastate flap which lies within but does not touch the sides of the sulcus and which as it extends toward the crown of the tooth increases in density and calibre and is closely cemented within the groove.
Un the exposed surface of the incisor it often overtops the contour of the face of the tooth and widens up on the tooth face in the form of a protuberant lamina with from one to three irregular longitudinal striae upon its enamellike surface.
In nearly mature foetal specimens of gnenlandicus there is not the slightest indication of this incisor groove layer.
In young granlandicus one month old the cementum has begun to form closely along the bottom of the groove and reaches along the median third of its length to the alveolar edge of the premaxillary.
At this period its consistency is that of indurated cartilage.
In specimens apparently but lately arrived at maturity the sulcus is partly filled to the tip and in very old skulls the groove is obliterated as described above.
For measurements of type grnlandicus see tables pp.
374 375.
North Polar regions westward is an interesting problem which lack of specimens prevents me from answering.
That it is radically distinct from any American or Old World species represented in the collections at my disposal is certain.
Through the courtesy of Mr. William De Winton of the British Museuu I am in receipt of the following information about the hares of Grinnell Land   The collection is rich in specimens of old and young from more northern localities and those from Discovery Bay Lincoln Bay etc. have the characters of grcenlandicus mentioned in your letter viz.
 the pi'ojecting narrow slightly grooved incisors.
Accompanying this Mr. De Winton sends a full length tracing of an upper incisor from a skull from Lincoln Bay 82 7' Grinnell Land which unmistakably belongs to the grcenlandlcus type.
He further says that these incisor  characters are not so marked in the small brown young and that  Greenland specimens are more curved so far as our collection shows but they seem to me to get straighter with age till the angle of meeting is considerably less than a right angle.
In all particulars Mr. De Wiuton's examinations not only confirm but emphasize my own.
Respecting the color of the young which he incidentally mentions as  brown it is of interest to note that while haligrown individuals are very light bluishgi'ay nearl' white the newly born young and fully developed embryos collected by Dr. Hays at Port Foulke Greenland in the Academy's collection are quite dark and resemble in color and color pattern miniature summer specimens of L. timidus but are grayer.
The embryos are densely clothed with long hair.
The number of specimens in each litter above mentioned is four.
Whether the full complement in each case was preserved I am unable to state.
The most satisfactory and reliable account of the Greenland Hare that I have seen is the one by H. W. Feilden already referred to in which he treats of these animals in Grinnell Land as observed by the Nares Expedition.
The specimens secured by Mr. Feilden are those referred to above by Mr. De Winton which I have identified as grcenlandicus.
Feilden found the young of the year to have become nearly pure white by the end of July.
The number of young in a litter was seven to eight.
Tracks of this Hare were seen on the Polar Sea in lat.
83 10' twenty miles north of the nearest land.
Specimens examined.
 Port Foulke Greenland 1 mounted skin and skull 1 skull and 8 embryos in alcohol.
Robertson's Bay Greenland 3 skins 7 skulls.
Lepus tschuktschorum Xordquist.
Bering Sea Polar Hare.
Pis.
VI VII  VIII figs.
3.
PI.
X figs.
3 cfe i. Lepus iimidus var tschuktschorum Nordquist Vega Exped. II 1883 pp.
84 90 tigs.
8 9 10 p. 88.
Type locality Pitlekaj lat.
67 Ion.
173 N. E. Siberia.
Geographic didribution.
 Northwestern Alaska from the mouth of the Kuskoquim River northward.
' Northeast Siberia.
Habitat.
 Aboiiuding in the open coast country and in the interior open barrens of the river valleys  seeking the shelter of ravines and willow scrub in severer weather but often found at such times in the open barrens.
 Nelson.
Color  Adult summer pelage No.
3780 A. N.
S.Phila. Choris Peninsula Alaska  upper surfiices of head and body blackish smoke brown becoming grayishbrown on the sides of body neck and head.
iMedian line of back smokyblack sparsely tipped with dull tawny  rump purer black.
Crown to nape like median line of back.
Region around eyes cheeks and nose dull rustyblack grayer on lower jaws and with a white orbital ring.
Chin and forethroat lower surfaces of limbs and feet lower neck chest belly vent and tail white.
Lower abdominal region clouded by a faint band of black hairs.
Lower neck blackishgray suffused with tawny.
Upper limbs and feet tawny gray the hind feet nearly white.
Median outer surface of ears sooty brownishblack sprinkled with dull tawny tawny gray and black on the inner surfaces and white along the posterior borders  tips of ears black with brown and gra' intermingled.
Whiskers white.
A few black hairs at upper base of tail.
A pinch of hairs from near middle of back about two inches from the vertebral line shows the following color pattern  underfur coarse grayishwhite at base brown or sooty at distal end.
Overfur black with or without a subterminal brown zone intergrading into black spinous hairs which form nearly twenty per cent of the dorsal pelage.
Winter pelage No.
13887 Col. Smiths.
Inst. St. Michaels Alaska pure white except extreme tips of ears which are black with rustybased hairs.
Whiskers white.
Cranial characters.
 Total length of skull less than twice its greatest breadth.
Nasals very wide flattened nearly as wide anteriorly as at base their greatest breadth more than half their greatest diagonal length.
Superior premaxillaries heavy broad reach29 See Nelson Rep. Nat.
Hist.
Col. Alaska 1887 p. 271. ing behind bases of nasals.
Supraorbital processes as in bangsi.
Posterior interorbital constriction narrow its relative width to alveolar length of upper molar series as in grcenlandicus.
Upper anterior incisors rooted as in arcticus their roots not forming decided maxillar convexities owing to the great relative width of rostrum.
Form and position of incisors as in arcticus but heavier.
Molars much heavier.
Incisive foramina as in arcticus.
Palatal bridge as in grcenlandicus.
Palatine foramina as in grcenlandicus.
Measurements.
 Average of three adults bind foot 176 millimeters ear from crown 96.
Skull total length 103.5  greatest breadth 54  greatest diagonal length of nasal 42.5  greatest breadth of nasals 23 width at tip of upper incisors 66 alveolar width of upper incisors 9.8  alveolar length of upper molar series 20  greatest length of mandible 80  greatest width of mandible 51.
General remarks.
 The Polar Hare of West Alaska as will be seen by its measurements represents the maximum development of the Arctic group in America.
Added to great size we have in tschuktschorum several cranial and external characters which separate it from arcticus and its eastern subspecies so plainly that there is little doubt of their specific value.
Among these we may note an approach in color to timidus of Sweden but the uniformly broad flattened nasals the great relative width of skull and large calibre of the dental armature and the anvilshaped upraised supraorbital processes induce me to specifically distinguish it.
A skull from Plover Bay Smith.
Inst. No.
7180 should be classed strictly as tschuktschorum.
Reference to the table of measurements shows its dimensions to be of the largest.
The relative zygomatic width is narrower but in all other respects the Siberian skull is typical of the Alaskan as contrasted with the Scandinavian and Baffin Land animals.
The researches of Radde' and Middendorff show that the Polar Hares of east Siberia do not specifically diflfer from the European species either in color or in cranial characters the latter mentioning the occurrence of this species in the Stanovoi Range which extends into the Tschuktschee country.
Four skulls from Karatchatka in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution show beyond question that the small timidus type of Polar Hare inhabiting that region is very different from the hare which frequents the 'Reisen im OstSibirien I 1862 pp.
207211.
'' Sibirische Reise II 1853 p. 115.
Plover Bay territory.
Brandt says that  Wossenessenski observed the true form of Lepus variabilis iu Kaintchatka and the coast provinces of Okotsk Sea to be entirely white as far as the tipa of the ears   but the reference is of little value except in regard to the distribution and winter pelage of this hare in the maritime provinces of southeast Siberia.
Schrenck says the Amoor Land hares are not separable from the Polar Hare of Europe except that he regards the southern form as a variety of the northern applying to it the name canescens of Nilsson in which the normal change from the dark summer pelage to the white of winter presents an intermediate gray phase of coloration which is retained the whole winter season.
As we would naturally expect from the known character of the west Alaskan fauna it furnishes us not only with the largest of our American Polar Hares but with the darkest colored example of the whole group of Arctic Leporidce I have yet seen.
 Nordquist's description of the Tscuktschee Hare leaves no room for doubt as to its specific identity with the Alaskan animal.. Owing to my lack of summer skins of this hare from Siberia it is impossible to say whether the Alaskan animal is separable as a darker race though such a state of affairs is likely to exist.
The elaborate table of measurements given by Nordquist confirms my own conclusions regarding the great size of the Bering Sea Hare the relative shortness of its ears the great length of the hind foot and the strong peculiarities of the cranium.
I am informed that this hare in common with some other species of the mammal fauna of these regions is frequently known to cross Bering Strait on the ice in the winter.
Specimens examined.
 Alaska 3 skins 4 skulls  Siberia 2 skins winter furs without feet 1 skull.
'Eeisen im Amur.Lande 1 159 p. 1845.
 Bern.
Wirbelth.
Nord.
Eur.
Kussl. p. 44.
374 1896.
Pi  K o iz hH   g s o hH a 25 1 o h1 o o hJ hi  M CO  I  H tzi  O 03 H iz M en  2 a aiqip uBra JO qip'Bajq s81'B9J 8Tq ipuBra JO qnaj isajBajo S8IJ8S juiora jaddn jo mSnai juioaAiy sjosioni jaddn jo qipi.u.
JBioaAjy SJOSIO nt J8ddn jo do ye qjpiM.
siBsun JO mpeajq s3'Baj siBSBn JO qjpcajq saBajr qjSnai jbox xag o .a o u 'S.
a  m S u  u  ZLM  w i.
ots S 1     c a CJ3 o a o 5 5'S 5 a O  i' s. s a a s . .
u 1  s  5   o f  J  5.
...
 i   .
 .
 tj S '     Z 'SJ..t 'Sec Of ' 00   5  i' S' fS .c .0 S  . ' o Vj a a   u  ffca a a 11 .5 V.
K d i' ' V ts.
 v C ts.
 i i  o   '  '  
  ' CO t lo  o 00 10 18.8 19.2 19.1 19 17.2 17.8 17.8 18 17.4 18 18 17.5 19 19 20.7 20.5 19 7 to t l IC 06 CO d C 00 00 00 QO 06 CC 00 C5 X tH S oi  c to CI   .
.0 T0. m m rG.
rt to  Tfi CO CO cj a  ic  icio 10 o to ic to to ic eo o to to t to to to to tCCOl N t to to CO to to' a 10 lOlOiO CCICCO C XGO C Lt iC IC 00 li
10 GO C1  Tf 3i    2 f j Tf Tp jc i22'iiSl  CO c 10 C L xcoQOcoo5Ciwa5'oaioo'Cixi'CNcc.oococo Sz5toooooiOtoQOrtcootorcoorooO'oio OOOO05C5CS0asflasCTi05OOOOOOwi0saiOOa5 0DCh0 'SdO  t.
fc t C8 ci oi e
cs K X cc u r c c    0000 EC  X X  T t t '5 ' Qj 0 a  O O O O r  e5 K w .
.
.
.
.
C c a    4 tS cs cs a c a a a a OJ Qj a  t. K  t. cj cooom V 0 1 bo be W h  M coo 0 a oj J j  S 
s Sma   S thHHHfi CS Oj CS Cj .
.
.
bxj bjD be bjo 'O TD frt .ccacaaac TOsr d a a  .2 H  .ii   c3 rS ra a a t. t. ..a. b h h 000 '2'H'3'2ooo M cs  CS .
'I' Jl' i  hJ J hj hj 
 z  Z t t a a a a  a' a a a a oj a I 5  5  5 o  Z 'J X S cs ZZ 0 te TI rn a rt  01 a a 3 V v.u .. a a 5 o rt  sg  a a q qj OJ C3 aj 
 a o Qi aj So 5 Ss   wcococo X W tf3 W bobebc bo a a a s cS r
tS c noo8noo z2zz .'..
.00000 .
.
.
.cocBcnccict'ayjcc .
WWW a ftO.
OQ  M X 03  hH hH W W Hi hH hH hH hH hH y .ojco gjgjcocdcdxcoa .
jaquinn aiiSoiBjBQ 1896.
375 BODY MEASUREMENTS OF TWENTY ADULT AMERICAN SIBERIAN AND SCANDINAVIAN POLAR HARES.
S3 a a  d g i 0 3 a Locality.
J5 g Remarks.
S  s a  t4 4 o S 3  C3  '3 w B  H H 1486 A. N. S. Greenland Robertson's Bay. 9
143 97 Type o L. rceiiitnticus 
relaxed.
1520 A. N. S. Greenland Robertson's Bay.

144 100 Dry.
3779 A. N. S. Greenland Robertson's Bay.
520 1.55 Skeleton only ligamentous.
1047 A. N. S. Greenland Port Foulke.
d 148 100 Mounted dry.
12456 S.I.
Baffin Land Niautilik.
95 Head and neck dry.
14151 S.L Labrador Solomon Is. Da1 vis Inlet.
145 95 Dry.
14149 S.I.
Labrador Ft. Chirao.
140 102' Relaxed.
1479.3 S.I.
Labrador Ft. Chimo.
140 100 53 Dry.
1187 E. A.O.Bangs Newfcxmdland Bay Samt t George.
586 170 85 45Meas.
in flesh.
37.52 E. A.
 0.
Bangs Newfouudland Codry.
 626 160 8563 Type ot L. a. bangsi.
3754 E. A.
 0.
Bangs Newfoundland Bay Saint 1 George.

603 167 8567 Meas.
in flesh.
3756 E. A.
 0.
Bangs Newfoundland Bay Saint George.
583 159 82 65 Meas.
in flesh.
3780 A. N. S. Alaska Kotzebue Sound.
180 98 Relaxed.
13886 S. I. Alaska St. Michaels.

175 95 Dry.
13887 S.I.
Alaska St. Michaels.
d 173 95 Dry.
Vega Exp.
N. E. Siberia near Pitlekaj.
9 747 179 110 75 Typical L. tschuktschor1 um tide Nordquist.
Vega Exp.
N. E. Siberia near Pitlekaj.
d 720 170 100 80 Typical L. tschuktscltorum fide Noruquist.
408 S.L Sweden near Stock liolm.
9 165 114 Relaxed.
409 S.L Sweden Helsingland.
 165 108 Relaxed.
411 S.L Sweden Hellestad.
d 160 112 Relaxed.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
Plate VI.
Fig.
1.
Lepxis groenlandiciishodidis.
Robertson's Bay Greenland.
Topotype No.
3779 Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila..
Fig.
L Lepustimiduslj.
Near Stockholm Sweden.
No.
408 U.S. Nat.
Mus..
Fig.
3.
Lepus tschuktschorum Nordq..
St. Michael's Alaska.
No.
1588 U. S. Nat.
Mu.s..
Plates VII  VIII.
Figs.
1 2 and 3.
Inferior and sujjerior views of the same skulls figured in Plate VI in the order there named.
Plate IX.
Figs.
1 2 and 3.
Lateral superior and inferior views of Lepus arcticua bangsi Rhoads.
Codry Newfoundland.
Type No.
3752 9 .
Col. E. A. and O. Bangs.
Plate X. Figs.
1 and 2.
Lepiis arcticus bangsi Rhoads.
Type.
Mandible and super anterior view of rostrum.
Fig.
3.
Lejms tsckuktschorum Nordq..
No.
1588 1. c.
Mandible.
Fig.
4.
Upper incisor typical of tiniidis and arcticus types.
From a specimen of Alaskan L. tschuktschorum.
Fig.
5.
Lepus grcenlcmdicus.
No.
3779 1. c.
Upper incisor.
Fig.
6.
Lepus g7cenlandicus.
No.
3779 1. c.
Mandible.
Fig.
7.
Lepus gnenlandicus.
No.
3779 1. c.
Super anterior view of rostrum.
Fig.
8.
Lepus timidus L. No.
408 1. c.
IMandible.
July 7.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Thirteen persons present.
A paper entitled  New and littleknown Mammalia from the Port Kennedy Bone Deposit by Edward D. Cope was presented for publication.
July 14.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Fourteen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   Insular Landshell Faunas as illustrated especially by the data obtained by Dr. G. Baur in the Galapagos Islands.
By William Healey Dall. 
New Species of Fungi from various localities.
By J.
B. Ellis and B. M. Everhardt.
July 21.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
July 28.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Fifteen persons present.
A paper entitled  The Hemipenes of the Sauria by Edward D. Cope was presented for publication.
The following were ordered to be printed   25
