A CONTRIBUTION TO THE MAMMALOGY OF NORTHERN NEW JERSEY.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
The following notes on New Jersey mammals are based on personal experience had during three collecting trips in the northern portion of the State.
In some cases I have added to ray own observations those of people living in the localities named, whose testimony was considered thoroughly reliable.
Trip number one was made during the last week in May, 1893, to Nolan's Point, Lake Hopatcong, Morris County, collecting being confined within a radius of three miles from Nolan's Point Villa, on the east shore of the lake.
The second trip included a brief stay of five days daring the last week in August, 1893, at a place near Delaware Gap station in the western corner of Warren County.
Trapping was restricted to a line of woodland and meadow connecting a lake (Sunfish Pond) 2 miles distant, with the farm-house in which I lodged near Delaware Gap.
The third and most important trip covered a period of three weeks, extending from the sixth to the thirtieth days of October, 1896.
It included three stops of one week each ; the first at Culver's Lake, Sussex County, the second at Unionville, Orange County, New York, just across the northern boundary of Sussex County near the Walkill Valley, and the third at the southern end of Greenwood Lake in Passaic County.
Considered in their faunal, geological and topographic relations, there is a great similarity in all the localities named, lying as they do within the Alleghenian life region, as restricted by Dr. J.
A. Allen, and moulded by the powerful agencies of the glacial period which has left its characteristic impress upon the greater part of northern New Jersey.
The mountains of Warren, Sussex and Passaic Counties are the highest on the eastern side of the Delaware River, several attaining the height of nearly 1,900 feet.
The Kittatinny Range, in its continuation northward from the Water Gap, runs close to two stations named in the above itinerary, viz., Delaware Gap on the western slope and Culver's Lake (Culver's Gap) on the eastern.
The mountain at these places is covered mainly with deciduous trees, alternating with pines and occasional hemlock in swampy localities, isolated bogs of tamarack and rhododendron and fir affording retreat for animals more characteristic of the Canadian fauna.
The lakes of New Jersey are numerous ; Culver's Lake and Long Lake together cover a considerable tract, and with their surroundings of swamp and mountain form a natural forest game preserve that is well worth the future attention of the legislators of the State.
At Lake Hopatcong, the largest of all, the country is less mountainous, and the fauna and flora shade somewhat into the Carolinian elements, but at Greenwood Lake the western range of Greenwood Mountain shows the most marked Canadian features noted in the State, frequent swamps and bogs of white cedar, fir, pine, hemlock and tamarack nestling among the depressions of the summits.
The excursions of which the following pages form a summary are part of the author's plan to make a comprehensive zoological survey of all the counties of New Jersey and Pennsylvania, with special reference to mammalogy and herpetology.
About half of this labor has been completed.
1.
Didelphis marsupialis virginiana (Kerr).
Virginia Opossum.
No specimens of opossum were taken.
Its rare occurrence at Greenwood Lake, where I was informed by the hunters that two had been captured in the last two years, is of interest as showing the presence of this animal in the most boreal surroundings which the State affords.
An examination of the large opossums of North and South America which belong to the marsupialis type of Linnseus, shows a specific difference in the character of the last premolar.
In Brazilian and Surinam specimens this tooth is a retrorse, blunt, rounded cone with slight trace of a shoulder above the cingulum on the posterior border.
In examples from the eastern United States and Mexico the tooth is sharply and abruptly conical, compressed laterally and entirely surrounded by a tuberculate basal shoulder.
Independently of other marked characters, this is sufficient at once to divide specifically the composite group marsupialis as defined by Oldfield Thomas 1 into two sections.
A study of Linnaeus' description 2 leads me to adopt Hernandez's Mexican animal as the least composite type of marsupialis with definite given habitat.
D. karkinophaga, ^at.
Marsup.
Monot.
B.
Mus., 1888, pp.
323-327.
-Syst.
Nat., 1758, p. 54.
Zimmerman 3 is the first name given to the South American species from Cayenne ; D. aurita Max.
Wied 4 (=D.
azarce Temm.)
becoming under the ruling of Thomas (la), D. karkinophaga aurita (Max.
Wied).
2.
Dorcelaphus virginianus (Bodd.).
Virginia Deer.
It has been many years since one of these animals was killed in any of the localities visited.
Several are confined in a game preserve surrounding Sunfish Pond in Warren County, and a few in the Dalrymple preserve on the east side of Long Lake in Sussex County.
3. ?
Cervus canadensis (Erxl.).
Wapiti.
A hunter near Delaware Gap declared that his grandfather, who "killed the last Elk shot in Pike County," Pennsylvania, stated that sometimes the hounds would drive both elk and deer across the Delaware River onto the Kittatinny Mountain.
That the latter species has quite recently been known to find temporary refuge in Sussex County on this account is easily proved, and it is probable that in this manner the Wapitihas either voluntarity or involuntarily become a member of the New Jersey fauna within the present century.
4.
Lepus americanus Erxl.
Varying Hare.
Once pretty numerous in the tamarack swamps of northern New Jersey, this species now seems to be exterminated.
Mr. Larkin Hazen stated that he shot one about six winters ago on Greenwood Mountain just across the State line in Orange County, New York.
They used to frequent a small swamp near Culver's Gap, but I was unable to find any trace of them there.
5.
Lepus sylvaticus Bachm.
Wood Hare.
No specimens of this common species were secured.
On this account I am unable to say whether the subspecies transitionalis is found in northern New Jersey.
6.
Synaptomys cooperi Baird.
Cooper's Vole.
Four specimens of Cooper's Vole were secured.
The first, an adult male, was trapped in a wet meadow close to woodland among sphagnum and tussocks of Juncus ; and the second, an adult nursing female, under a heap of stones along the edge of dry wood-land but quite near swampy ground.
Both these specimens were caught | 3 Geog.
Gesch., 1870, p. 226.
* Beitr.
Nat.
Bras., 1826, p. 395.
3 near the head of Long Lake, adjoining Bear Swamp, October 8th and 15th, 1896.
Two additional examples were trapped October 29th at Greenwood Lake, the first in a wet pasture lot at the south end of the lake, the last along a deep ravine in Greenwood Mountain, among sphagnum and grass by the road-side.
In no case have I seen this species out of easy reach of sphagnum or removed a stone's throw from woodland, even when wet meadows afforded it a tempting diversion into open country.
The specimens are esentially like those of this species taken in Pennsylvania and New England, being uniformly lighter colored than those found in the bogs of southern New Jersey at the same season, to which I gave the name Synaptomys stonei in 1893, and which a full series of specimens is likely to prove separable from cooperi as a subspecies.
I believe the above record of typical cooperi is the first for New Jersey, though it is probable that Cooper's original specimen was taken in the northern section of the State.
7.
Microtus pennsylvanious (Ord).
Wilson's Meadow Vole.
As was expected, the common meadow mouse proved very abundant in all visited localities.
Of the ninety specimens taken, none show any remarkable variation from the typical form found in southeastern Pennsylvania.
Several females contained embryos, while young of all stages of growth were secured.
It is not likely that the severest winter weather puts any effectual period to the reproductive powers of this animal.
In old nursing females the fall moult seemed to be sometimes almost wholly arrested, their pelage presenting a very ragged and faded appearance.
8.
Microtus pinetorum (LeC).
Pinewoods Vole.
Comparison of two specimens of this vole taken at Delaware Gap shows no differences of even subspecific value to separate them from individuals taken in the pine barrens of southern New Jersey.
Unless South Carolina and Georgia specimens differ markedly from any I have yet taken in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, the conclusion of Audubon and Bachman, that scalopsoides is a synonym of pinetorum, holds good.
The individual and seasonal variations in this species among specimens from the same locality are very great, making it necessary that a large suite of skins from Florida to Massachusetts be consuited to determine this point.
In any event, all the Pine Voles of Pennsylvania and New Jersey belong more properly to the northern type.
No specimens were taken except at Delaware Gap.
9.
Evotomys gapperi (Vigors).
Gapper's Wood Vole.
Thirteen specimens were trapped in and about Bear Swamp near Long Lake, and six more in a hemlock swamp in the bottoms of the Walkill about two miles south of the New York State line.
They are similar to specimens from Quebec, being lighter colored than those taken by Mr. Stone at May's Landing, New Jersey, in 1893.
I am convinced that the reason this species was not taken near Greenwood Lake, was my neglect to set traps in the more retired and deep-shaded hemlock swamps.
10.
Fiber zibethious (L.).
Muskrat.
No specimens of this abundant species were taken, except at Lake Hopatcong.
11.
Peromyscus leucopus (Raf.).
Deer Mouse.
A large series of deer mice from every locality mentioned in the itinerary of this paper closely conform in character to those of other parts of New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
Though abundant in localities where Evotomys was found, no specimens of P. canadensis were secured among them, showing that the mountains of northern New Jersey lack the more typical Canadian elements which are found in isolated places in Pennsylvania where I have taken canadensis.
There is a marked racial difference between leucopus of Pennsylvania and New Jersey and the type of leucopus found in Massachusetts and northern New York, the latter being smaller and brighter colored with a narrower dark dorsal stripe and more hairy tail.
Pennsylvania and New Jersey specimens are practically identical with those collected by me in west Tennessee and Kentucky, where the type form of leucopus defined by Rafinesque is found.
It has been proved by Mr. G. S. Miller, Jr., 5 that the Cricetus myodes of Gapper applies to the smaller short-tailed deer mouse of Canada which is apparently identical with those of northern New York and New England.
These facts induce me to revive the name myodes for the small deer mouse of the eastern Canadian fauna, making it read Peromyscus leucopus myodes (Gapper).
5 Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., 1893, pp.
59, 60.
12.
Neotoma magister Baird.
Allegheny Cave Rat.
The occurrence of this rat in the Hudson highlands near New Jersey, and in Massachusetts also, has for some years led mammalogists to believe that its distribution across the intervening country would be found continuous in favorable localities.
Save the discovery of their remains in the cave deposits of Monroe County, Pennsylvania, there has been no definite record to my knowledge which would connect their habitat in the Allegheny Mountains with that on the Hudson River.
I was informed, however, by a hunter at Delaware Gap, that he knew of such an animal on the Kittatinny Mountain in Warren County.
This statement I was unable to verify, owing to my short stay at that place.
It is very likely that this rat will also be found on the Kittatinny range near Culver's Gap, but during my visit no exploration of the summits was made.
Soon after my arrival at Greenwood Lake, I was told by a local sportsman that he had once caught a "wood rat'" on the mountain in a deadfall set for skunks.
The summits of Greenwood Mountain at the south end of the lake are made up exclusively of great masses of glaciated conglomerate and shale with perpendicular fissures and steep faults running parallel with the northeast and southwest trend of the range.
Chestnut and scrub oaks and dwarfed pines and hemlocks sparingly cover the nakedness of this desolate but picturesque locality.
Owing to their perpendicular cleavage, I found the rocks rarely afforded the proper shelter for the abode of the cliff rat, and it was only after nearly two days of climbing that I stumbled upon an escarpment from which the rock masses had so fallen into the gorge as to form a roof.
Beneath this, unmistakable signs of the rats were found, and in the two following days an adult male, a very old female and a young male, about two-thirds grown, were secured.
These specimens differ in no respects from a series from the Pennsylvania Alleghenies taken at the same season.
They form the first New Jersey record of this interesting native rat.
13.
Mus decumanus Pallas.
Norway Rat.
14.
Mus musculus L. House Mouse.
Specimens of the House mouse were taken.
Of the status of the Black Rat, M. rattus, no notes were secured.
15.
Zapus hudsonius (Zimm.).
Meadow Jumping Mouse.
Ten specimens from Lake Hopatcong and three from near Culver's Lake represent this animal.
The latter were taken in a wet swamp grown up with Juncus and grasses.
The temperature fell on two nights when these were taken to near 32°, forming heavy frosts.
Their absence from my traps in the Walkill Valley and at Greenwood Lake was undoubtedly due to the low temperature having driven them all to their winter repose.
A thick layer of yellow fat completely covered the bodies of these Culver's Lake specimens, adhering so firmly to the skin that it was very difficult to preserve the specimens.
16.
Zapus insignis Miller.
Woodland Jumping Mouse.
I secured four beautiful specimens of this Zapus in woodland along a small rocky stream connecting a rhododendron swamp with Lake Hopatcong, near Nolan's Point.
All were trapped close by the water's edge, precisely as described by Mr. Miller in his later account of the species.
I have never taken this animal in open situations such as are preferred by its kinsman of the meadow.
* The most persistent trapping in likely places at Culver's and Greenwood Lakes did not reveal the presence of insignis there.
It seems probable that it is more sensitive to frost than hudsonius and had gone into winter quarters before my arrival at Culver's Lake.
At Greenwood Lake a dormant jumping mouse, evidently of this species from the description given me by the finder, was dug out of a gravel bank during my stay.
I visited the spot, and from its situation in deep woodland near a brook, I am morally sure it was insignis.
The narrator of the incident stated that he knew the meadow species very well, but that this one was " much redder."
These particulars are given to show not only that insignis is found in Passaic County, but to prove that it hibernates earlier than hudsonius.
The presence of a persistent premolar in all other known species of the genus as contrasted with its absence in Zapus insignis may eventually entitle the latter to separate subgeneric rank.
17.
Castor canadensis Kuhl.
American Beaver.
Numerous localities in northern New Jersey are pointed out as the traditional sites of beaver colonies.
This animal was so early exterminated in these places that I found it impossible to secure any data relating to the time of their extinction.
18.
Arctomys monax (L.).
Woodchuck; Ground Hog.
Very abundant on the Delaware slope of the Kittatinny Mountain ; less so in other localities named except at Lake Hopatcong.
No specimens were taken.
It seems strange that the unmistakable difference in size and color obtaining between the woodchucks of the Hudson Bay regions and those of Maryland, the type locality of monax, should not have been officially recognized.
With Dr. Allen's excellent analysis ot its nomenclature 6 as a basis, I see no objection to designating the woodchucks of eastern North America by the following formulae : — 1.
Arctomys monax (Linnaeus), Syst.
Nat., 1758, p. 60; Maryland Marmot.
Size small ; color gray-brown, feet brown.
Habitat.
— Carolinian fauna, intergrading northward through the Alleghenian and Canadian fauna into 2.
Arctomys monax melanopus (Kuhl), Beitrage, 1820, p. 64 ; Hudson Bay Marmot.
Size large ; color brown-black, feet black.
Habitat.
— Hudsonian fauna, intergrading southward with typical monax.
19.
Tamias striatus (L.).
Carolina Chipmunk.
Forty specimens, representing every locality visited, show neareraffinities to the Carolinian than the Canadian form of our eastern chipmunk.
Those from Delaware Gap are scarcely separable from southern New Jersey examples, the Greenwood Lake series being nearest to lysteri of Maine, but much darker.
This animal is very abundant in Warren, Sussex and Passaic Counties, but not so numerous at Lake Hopatcong.
A temperature of 28° during my stay at Greenwood Lake did not wholly silence them, though it greatly lessened their activity and apparent numbers.
Contrary to what I expected, no really fat specimens were procured, and all seemed most busily intent on gathering and storing acorns at a season when they are generally supposed to go into their winter sleep.
About twenty per cent of those taken had the tail shortened or injured in some manner.
20.
Sciurus hudsonicus loquax Bangs.
Carolinian Chickaree.
Numerous everywhere ; abundant in the deeper evergreen forests.
21.
Sciurus carolinensis pennsylvanicus (Ord).
Northern Gray Squirrel.
Not common except in the vicinity of Long Lake.
Even the former existence of the Fox Squirrel in northern New Jersey rests on such unreliable evidence that I am unwilling to include it in this paper.
Monog.
N. A.
Eod., 1877, pp.
915-917.
22.
Sciuropterus volans (L.).
Carolinian Flying Squirrel.
A female and three young taken at Lake Hopatcong, and a male from near Culver's Lake, show no tendency to gradation with the northern animal.
23.
Procyon lotor (L.).
Raccoon.
Not rare.
A special object of sport among the natives of Greenwood Lake.
24.
Lutra hudsonica Lacep.
Canadian Otter.
The otter continues to exist in all the more secluded bodies of water in the counties under consideration.
Specimens had been taken at Hopatcong, Culver's and Greenwood Lakes within a year of my visits to these places.
25.
Putorius vison lutreocephalus (Harlan).
Southeastern Mink.
None of this species were seen.
The hunters everywhere reported them scarce.
26.
Putorius noveboracensis Emmons.
Carolina Weasel.
Not common and rarely becoming white in winter, even at Greenwood Lake.
27.
Mephitis mephitica (Shaw).
Northern Skunk.
Not having specimens, I am induced to include the skunks of northern New Jersey under the above name, solely on geographical grounds.
They are fairly abundant in the region.
28.
Ursus americanus Pallas.
American Black Bear.
No bears were reported to me as still existing in the localities visited.
The recent killing of bears at Port Jervis, makes it possible that they occasionally wander into the northwestern corner of Sussex County.
29.
TJrocyon cinereoargenteus (Mull.).
Northern Gray Fox.
Reported to be rare by hunters.
Outnumbering the red species at Lake Hopatcong.
30.
Vulpes pennsylvanicus (Bodd.).
American Red Fox.
Numerous in the rocky, mountainous districts.
31.
Canis nubilus Say.
American Timber Wolf.
This destructive animal was exterminated in northern New Jersey so long ago that I could obtain no definite data of its disappearance.
32.
Lynx ruffus (Gueldenstaedt).
7 Eastern Bay Lynx.
Not yet exterminated in Sussex and Passaic Counties, but very rarely taken.
I have been unable to get any record of the Canada Lynx for this region, though it probably wandered thither in earlier times.
33.
Felis ooncolor (L.).
Puma.
The same remarks which I have previously made regarding the wolf are applicable to this animal.
34.
Scalops aquaticus (L.).
Carolinian Mole.
Not rare in suitable localities.
None were secured.
35.
Condylura cristata (L.).
Star-nose Mole.
An old female and four nearly mature young were taken in the same trap on successive days in the underground passage-ways of a spring near Nolan's Point, Lake Hopatcong.
The wrist and forearms of the female are encircled by a clear bufly band.
The throat, breast and median abdominal line are suffused with dark orange.
36.
Blarina brevicauda (Say).
Northern Mole Shrew.
This Blarina is exceedingly abundant in all sorts of situations.
In Sussex and Passaic Counties it approaches closely in size to the Canadian specimens.
7 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia having recently come into possession of the series of " Novi Co7nmentarii" of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg, I am enabled to consult for the first time the reference made by Schreber in Volume 3 of the Saugtliiere, to the original description of the Felis ruff a of Gueldenstaedt.
Schreber's reference on p. 412 of the Saugthiere to Gueldenstaedt is faulty.
It reads " Felis rufa Guldenst, Nov. Comm.
Acad.
Imp.
Sc.
Petr., torn 20, p.
499."
The specific name rufa should be ruffa, and Gueldenstaedt's name should have an e in the first syllable.
Baird's reference (Mam.
N. A., 1857, p. 90) quotes ruffa correctly.
In common with other writers, Baird may have thought Gueldenstaedt's spelling ruffa, a typographic error ; in any event he adopted the more modern spelling, rufusAn examination of Gueldenstaedt's article " Chaus Animal Feli Affine Descriptio" in the twentieth volume of the journal referred to, shows that he based his new Lynx solely on the figure and description of the " Bay Cat," species number 136 of Pennants' Synopsis of Quadrupeds.
Pennants' references to this animal point unmistakably to the wild cat of " New York " as the type of Gueldenstaedt's Felis ruffa.
That the latter intended to use the spelling ruffa instead of rufa can hardly be questioned, as the word is so spelt six times in his paper.
An examination of older Latin lexicons shows that this construction of the word is perfectly admissible.
The names of our North American Lynxes of the ruffus type may be listed as follows : 1.
Lynx ruffus (Gueldenstaedt).
Eastern Bay Lynx.
2.
Lynx ruffus floridanus (Rafinesque).
Florida Bay Lynx.
3.
Lynx ruffus texensis (J.
A. Allen).
Texas Bay Lynx.
4.
Lynx rilffus baileyi (Merriam).
Great Basin Bay Lynx.
► 5.
Lynx ruffus fascialus (Rafinesque).
Pacific Bay Lynx.
37.
Sorex personatus Geoff.
St. Hil.
Masked Shrew.
A specimen of what I suppose to be this shrew was taken at Delaware Gap.
38.
Sorex fumeus Miller.
Smoky Shrew.
One was taken near Culver's Gap, another near Greenwood Lake.
True Sorex is apparently a great rarity in northern New Jersey.
39.
Vespertilio lucifugus LeC.
Little Brown Bat.
One specimen was taken at Delaware Gap and several seen at other stations.
It is the commonest species in these regions.
40.
Adelonycteris fusca (Pal.de Beauv.).
Greater Brown Bat.
An abundant species.
41.
Atalapha borealis (Mull.).
Red Bat.
Several were noted.
OBSERVATIONS ON TARSIUS FUSCUS.
BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia possesses an adult female of Tarsius fuscus which through the courtesy of the curators I have recently dissected.
The specimen was purchased of Mr. H. A.
Ward of Kochester, and is without locality.
I propose to describe the superficies, auricle, rugae, bones and muscles, and compare them especially with the account of the corresponding parts in the allied species Tarsius tarsius, as given in Burmeister's monograph.
1 This memoir, elaborately detailed and beautifully illustrated by the author, stands in such high repute that anatomists have accepted the account of the genus as final.
Mivart and Muir in their descriptions of the structure of the Lemuroidea 2 omit Tarsius.
Nevertheless, I have been induced to make this record because of the specific independence of the Academy's specimen, as well as for the reason that variations in structure should be made the subject of special scrutiny.
Apart from these considerations, I believe the warmest admirer of the memoir will admit that the teeth are imperfectly described, and the references to the mechanism of the limbs inadequate.
When a muscle is not described in this essay, it will be understood that Burmeister's account has been found to agree in all respects with my own.
The abdomen had been opened, the symphysis pubis divided and the organs of generation, as well as the greater part of the intestines, removed before I received the specimen.
THE SUPERFICIES.
The fur generally is long and silky.
The tips on the back and sides are dark brown, on the crown and sides of the neck gray, with a disposition to become lighter in hue toward the rump.
The hair of the head has a subtip of obscure chestnut, elsewhere with the exceptions named, the basal two-thirds are dark plumbeous.
On the under surface of the trunk the fur is light at the tips, while on the inner side of the thigh it is almost white.
The inner parts of the 1 Beitrilge znr niiheren Kenntniss der Gattung Tarsius, von Hermann Burmeister.
Berlin, 1846, 4°, pp.
140, pis.
vii.
s Zool.
Trans., VII, 1866. forearm, the leg and the tarsus as far as the midtarsal line, are covered with sparse short unicolored light gray hair ; the face is well covered with short hair, the snout alone being naked.
The tail at the basal inch is marked by the same character of hair as the rump.
The proportion of plumbeous hair at the base is, however, less.
The remaining part of the tail is hairless, except at the terminal three inches where a conspicuous pencillated arrangement of obscure black hair is seen.
The flexor surfaces of contact of the thigh and leg are naked, as also are the palms and soles.
REMARKS ON THE SPECIES OF TARSIUS.
Burmeister gives an elaborate synonymy of T. spectrum, as denominated by him — the T. tarsius of this essay — and refers to* and figures a second species which he names T. fischeri.
I find the Academy's specimen answers to the description of the species last named.
But Burmeister had previously described this form under the names of T. fuscus.
Geoffrey subsequently named it T. fuscomanus.
Forbes 3 decides without criticism that the names T. fuscomanus and T. fischeri are synonyms of T. fuscus.
In the same volume T. spectrum is changed to T. tarsius.
I have accepted this plan of naming the two species, and thus the Academy's specimen becomes T. fuscus.
Mr. Lyddeker informs me by post, that while he uses the name T. fusco-manus in his work on Geographical History of the Mammalia, he would now accept T. fuscus.
A.
B. Meyer* employs T. fusco-manus, though changing it to T. fuscus in a later publication, which unfortunately is not to be found in the libraries of this country.
The author last named, described in the above series a new species under the name T. philippensis, characterized by possessing naked tarsi and tail.
Professor Meyer writes that he has since described a fourth species under the name T. sangirensis, an account of which has not come to hand.
The genus, therefore, now contains four accredited species, T. tarsius, T. fuscus, T. philippensis and T. sangirensis.
In discussing the synonymy of T. spectrum, Burmeister states that T. daubentonii is " blackish and ash-gray " in color ; T. bancamis 5 recalls in its dark colored fur the foregoing.
T. spectrum is " yellow 3 Allen's N. H.
Libr., Primates, 1894,1, p. 21.
4 Abhand.
u Berichte des Kongl.
Zool.
u Anthropolog.-Ethn.
Museums zu Dresden, 1894, I.
5 1 have carefully studied the account of Tarsus bancanus Horsfield (Nat.
Hist.
Java).
It has minute lateral incisors and no upper central incisors.
The premolars and molars together number but five ; it is probable that the first premolar is absent.
The tarsus is less elongated, the ears are smaller and the tail less pencillated than in T. fuscus.
The form is most likely immature.
36 [1897. brown-gray " with a light dash of " red-brown " on the forehead, the back and upper side of the thigh ; the sides of the head and neck are dark brown, the breast whiter.
The tip-of the tail is yellow and bristle-like.
T. fischeri (the T. fuseus of this paper) is of a reddish yellow-gray, with brown-gray side of head and neck, a clear yellowwhite spot on the base of the ear, and a red-brown tip to the tail.
Two conclusions can be drawn from these excerpts: one that Burmeister's account of the specific distinctions is not satisfactory, and that the Academy's specimen is remote from T. tarsias.
It is in the broadest possible way contrasted with the coloration of the figure in Burmeister's memoir.
Here the fur of the body and the limbs is of a uniform yellow-gray, the head being somewhat darker, the tip is scarcely more densely furred than the rest of the tail and not differently colored.
THE AURICLE.
Fig.
1.
The auricle of Tarsius tarsius after Burmeister.
The auricle is more rounded than in T. tarsius.
A distinct internal basal lobe is present, which, however, is folded in against the auricle.
The outer border ends abruptly at the middle of the large, rounded external basal lobe, which is absent in the species just named.
The antitragus is convex and projects but to a less degree than the foregoing, and is separated therefrom by a deep notch (indsura auris).
The parts are carried well down toward the neck, thus forming a true conch.
It is marked within, as in T. tarsius, by four transverse ridges, the lowest of which (antitragus) forms a conspicuous lobe.
The above comparison is based upon the figure in Burmeister's memoir and the original of the Academy's specimen.
Burmeister states that the ear on the whole resembles in part that of bats and of rodents.
Concerning the first named it certainly bears a comparison with the Pteropodidse, and (in less degree) the Rhinolophidoe in the absence of the conspicuous fold at the border of the external auditory meatus held by the writer to be a rudiment of the tragus.
In no bat, however, is the large transverse fold (antitragus) known.
Fig.
2.
The auri cle of Tarsius fuseus THE HANDS AND FEET.
The nails of both hands and feet, with the exception of those of the second and third toes, are almost entirely concealed by epidermis.
They are, indeed, mere scales, which apparently represent the lowest possible phase of development.
Those of the feet are as in the hands, excepting those of the second and third toes.
The well-known prorect claws have been aptly compared to thorns on a rose bush.
They stand at an acute angle to the sharply flexed second phalanges and permit the broad toe-tips to project to a greater extent than in other toes.
I venture in this connection to make a suggestion as to the use of these claws.
They are fur dressers and parasite searchers for the head and shoulders.
It is a matter of common observation that ecto-parasites are prone to fix themselves about the face and ears.
A palmate-finger-tipped animal would be placed at a disadvantage at the toilet.
It is probable that when the claws are in use the fourth and fifth fingers are flexed.
The palmar callosities are marginal to the thenar and hypothenar eminences.
The basal pads in the digits are large — one is proper to the fourth digit.
Burmeister simply states concerning the two basidigital pads that they lie at the base of the middle and following finger.
In the foot the hallucal and hypothenar pads are strictly marginal.
They join at the wrist.
A metatarso-phalangeal pad lies axial to the third digit.
A large pad lies axial to the phalanges of the hallux.
It projects into the first inter-digital space and is well displayed when this space is defined from the dorsum.
All three pads are in effect callosities to the metatarsal and the metatarso-phalangeal joints except the first, which overlies in part the powerful Adductor pollicis.
The pad of the first toe is opposed to that of the fifth toe.
The manner of insertion of the Adductor pollicis would naturally have a tendency to pull the entire digit to the ulnar border while flexing the phalanges.
The location of the tendon is seen without dissection.
The hallucal pad overlying this muscle in part is an interesting structure.
This portion of the manus and pes in mammals generally?
so far as I know, is free from callosities.
But in T. fuscus the pad is the largest in the foot and projects toward the sole so as to suggest an important function in grasping.
Burmeister does not acknowledge the marginal pads to be present, but describes three unequal elliptical pads which answer in part to the free basal segment ; the middle corresponds to " den beiden ersten Zehen " (second and third digits), the third, the smallest but longest on the outer (fibular) border of the " zwei letzten Zehen " (fourth and fifth digits).
Thus no statement is made of the extent to which the pollical pad overlies the first inter-digital space, as is seen in the Academy's specimen, and of the third pad lying to the outer side of the last two toes.
In the Academy's specimen it is distinctly interdigital.
THE SKULL.
The skull of T. fuscus differs from that of T. tarsius in the tympanic and petrous portions of the temporal bone being greatly inflated, in the orbital border of the malar bone being notched instead of perforated, and the orbital plate of the frontal bone being smooth instead of furnished with a tuberosity over the inner border of the optic foramen.
A skull of T. tarsius in the possession of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is older than that of T. fuscus, yet the position of the para-conules and the meta-conules is cleanly defined.
.
The infra-orbital canal is minute; the post-glenoid foramen is conspicuous.
The union of the external pterygoid plate with the petrous portion of the temporal bone is met with in some short faced types in Chiroptera.
The interesting comment is made that in those human crania in which the external pterygoid plate unites with the spinous process, which in its turn joins the squama and lies directly against the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the essential features of Tarsius are repeated.
THE TEETH.
The Lower Teeth.
— I have lately concluded that anatomical descriptions should be framed when practicable on the basis of etiology.
Assuming that the shapes of the upper teeth are results of dynamic forces acting through and by means of the lower teeth, the last named teeth should be described first.
The incisors are conical, acicular, and do not touch in the median line ; the canines are larger than the incisors and slightly inclined forward.
The premolars are contiguous and gradually increase in size from the first to the third.
In the molar series the small paraconid and larger protoconid are opposed and merge so as to form a trenchant transverse ridge on the 1897.]
39 crown.
The molars increase in size from the first to the third, the last named alone having a marked posterior commissural cusp, though a faint rudiment of it second.
can be discerned in the first and Fig.
3.
The Lower Teeth of Tarsius fuscus.
The anterior eminence is seen in all, though it is least conspicuous in the first tooth.
The large metaconid is separated from the small hypoconid by a deep valley.
The sharp posterior commissure is continuous with the apex of the hypoconid.
In the first and second molars the commissure is straight and transverse, but in the third tooth it is prolonged backward ; beyond it, the swollen contour of the tooth projects and yields the impression of being a supplemental cusp ; so that the series when viewed from buccal aspect gives to the first and second molars two denticles, while for the third molar there are three.
A cingule is sharply defined at the basis of the paraconid and metaconid.
All the lower teeth have cingula.
In the incisors, canines and premolars they are entire or nearly so ; in the molars they are buccal only.
The Upper Teeth.
— The conical central incisors are separated from one another at their apical thirds.
They are sharply worn on the posterior surfaces and faintly grooved on the outer.
The lateral is contiguous to the central, but separated from the canine by a narrow interval.
The tooth is minute, higher than the central, its tip being on the level of the cinsrulurn of the tooth last named.
The canine is smaller than the central incisor.
The premolars abruptly increase in size from before backward ; the first two are ridged on palatal surface like the canine ; the third alone presents on palatal surface a broad basal cusp.
The molars are trituberculate with acicular cusps.
Slight indications exist of the beginnings of cusps (conules) on the commissures uniting the protocone with the paracone and metacone.
The ciugulum is not complete in any of the molars, though nearly so in the first and third.
In the second no trace of it exists on the palatal aspect of the second molar, the figure represents the line with too much emphasis.
Fig.
4.
The Upper Teeth of Tardus fuscus.
The protoconids andparaconids are received in interdental spaces of the upper jaw.
The hypoconids occupy the valleys of the upper molars.
The valleys of the lower molars embrace the protocones.
The interdental spaces of the lower jaw are occupied by the metacones.
The minute cusps on the ridges connecting the paracone and mesocone with the protocone are met with also in Lemur.
The disposition is an ancient one, since it is seen in Chriacus of the Puerco beds.
In Anaptomorphus and Pelyeodus it is less marked, if indeed indubitably present.
Theo.
N. Gill 6 and Max Schlosser 7 place Tarsius in a group distinct from the Lemuroidea, but closely related thereto.
C. E. Hubrecht 8 removes the form absolutely from proximity to the lemurs, and gives it a place in the phyllum of the monkeys and men.
C. Earle 9 considers Tarsius to be an annectant type between the apes and lemurs.
The wear is first on the ridges between the protoconids and paraconids and the anterior of the two ridges of the molars, and between the hypoconid and the posterior of the two ridges.
10 THE RUG^E.
The palatal ruga?
are nine in number.
The first five lie between the premolar and canine teeth ; they answer to the abruptly narrowed part of the hard palate, and while composed of right and left parts are irregular and crowded.
The remaining four are regular and undivided.
Directly back of the incisors is a median part with two minute depressions.
THE BRAIN.
The cerebrum is without sulcus on the spheno-temporal lobe.
The olfactory lobe is much larger in Burmeister's figure than in the Academy's specimen.
The flocculus is large and is received in a deep recess on the temporal bone.
Burmeister states that the flocculus is present in T. tarsius, as we would expect ; but according to his figure it must have had an absolutely different form from that seen in T.fuscus.
6 Arrang.
Fam.
Mam., Smith.
Inst.
1872, 54.
7 Beitragzur Paliiontolog.
Osterreich-Ungarn, 1888, 54.
8 Hubrecht's position is elaborately given in Gegenbaur's Festschrift 1896, 163.
The teeth are compared and figured but not described.
The conules of the upper molars are not defined and thus one of the characters distinguishing Tarsius from Anaptomorphus is not given.
9 Science, 1897, 60.
10 The superior upper incisor, lateral incisor and premolar in a specimen in the American Museum of Natural History are exactly as in that of the Academy.
THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW.
Unlike other forms of temporal muscle, the superficial and posterior fascicle overlies to a slight extent only the anterior and deeper part, but in the main arises separately from the skull.
It can be raised easily by the director just above the auditory meatus and separated from the anterior fascicle by a little artificial dissection.
The masseter muscle arises from the inferior orbital margin.
The anterior surface as it overlies the lower jaw reaches a line answering to that of the third molar, almost as far as the anterior edge of the line of origin of the muscle.
But its insertion is strictly confined to the angle of the jaw; thus a probe can be passed between the anterior third of the muscle and the lower jaw.
The digastric muscle is without tendinous intersection, and is inserted almost the entire length of the lower jaw.
THE MUSCLE OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY.
The muscles which are attached to the occiput and cervical vertebras on the one part and the shoulder girdle and the side of the chest, humerus and bones of the forearm on the other, constitute a natural system, though they are variously distributed in the generally accepted myologic scheme.
I place in this system the following muscles, the grouping by brackets indicating the association through annectant fascicles : f Sterno-cleido-mastoideus.
( Trapezius.
j Splenius.
( Scalenus anticus.
f Transversalis colli.
-< Pectoralis major.
(^Serratus magnus.
f Deltoideus.
-< Pectoralis major.
(_ Brachialis anticus.
Rhomboideus.
Levator anguli scapulas.
Latissimus dorsi.
The Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus is a sheet whose fold 11 lies at the median border.
The clavicular and sternal origins are continuous, 11 For an opinion entertained respecting muscles which are composed on the plan of a folded sheet, see a paper by the author on the Muscles of the Limbs of the Kaccoon (Procyon lotor), Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, May, 1882.
4 and are concealed by the upper margin of the Pectoralis major.
The clavicular sheet makes up the bulk of the muscle and constitutes the superficial fascicle.
The sternal sheet is thicker than the foregoing and constitutes the deep fascicle.
The Splenitis lies in part between the two fascicles.
The extent of the insertion of the muscles, namely, along the entire length of the occipital ridge (linea semicircularis ossis occipitis of Burmeister) is noteworthy.
The Trapezius sends a slip to the posterior border of the foregoing sheet at a point answering nearly to the level of the axis.
Burmeister gives two distinct origins with a triangular interval between them.
No mention is made of the clavicular and sternal fascicles being united at the median border of the muscle.
The Trapezius is without a capitate slip.
The upper fascicle, confined to the cervical region, is small and inconspicuous.
The middle fascicle is continuous with the foregoing and ends abruptly about on the line of the inferior end of the vertebral border.
The Splenius is a broad simple sheet.
It sends a small fleshy slip to a superior angle of the scapula and a broad tendinous slip to the Scalenus anticus.
The Transversalis colli can be traced to the junction of the superficial and deeper parts.
The deep fascicle merges with the above near the insertion ; both fascicles are beautifully delineated in Burmeister's plate.
The terms in which the Pedoralis major are defined present a scheme as simple as any found elsewhere in the mammals.
It is of interest, therefore, to find two parts, a superficial and a deep part present, and also to note that the muscle can not be separated absolutely from the Transversalis colli and the Deltoideus without artificial dissection.
The Pectoralis major is small and composed of two fascicles.
The sheet is not folded.
The superficial fascicle consists of an upper and lower congeries of fibres, which are distinguished by their trend rather than by relation.
The fibres of insertion are continuous inferioriy with the Deltoideus.
The Transversalis collis is traceable to the under surface of the Pectoralis major.
This is in harmony with the plan seen in Felis The Serratus magnus is directly continuous with the Transversalis colli, and demonstrates in a satisfactory manner that these two muscles form parts of the same sheet.
The Deltoideus acts at the insertion of the outer (acromial) fascicle as a muscle of union between the Pectoralis major and the Brackialis anticus.
Accepting this union as valid, the cephalo-humeral system ends by the insertion of the Brachialis anticus upon the ulna.
The Brachialis anticus is a large, powerful muscle ; it arises by two heads, one in continuity with the Deltoideus at the pectoral ridge, and the other (the larger) from the outer surface of the shaft just below the origin of the outer head of the Triceps.
It has a broad tendinous insertion on the ulna.
It is more important apparently than the Biceps, and unlike the same muscle elsewhere in the mammalia it is not associated with the Triceps.
The Rhomboideus is small without capitate slip.
An important difference is here noted in Burmeister's description.
The Rhomboideus is figured with an accession about the position of Rhomboideus major, and a large muscle resting on the Splenius named Levator posticus scapulm which is the same as the capitate fascicle of later writers.
The Academy's specimen shows no muscle intervening between the Sterno-cleido-mastoideus and the Splenius.
The Levator anguli scapu lot arises from the transverse processes of the fifth to the seventh cervical vertebra?, and is inserted on the superior angle of the scapula.
A muscle arises from the front of the atlas in association with the Longus colli, and is inserted upon the acromion in connection with the Trapezius.
This is the Levator anticus scapuloz of Burmeister's figures, but is not described.
The Latissimus dorsi is without axillary arches and arises entirely from the dorsal aponeurosis, where the muscle is 23 mm.
wide.
This is also the case in Burmeister's specimen.
The slip to the olecranon is in close union with the connective tissue over the median nerve and brachial artery, and the impression is received that the slip protects these structures from the effects of friction and pressure.
The other muscles not embraced in the preceding group are the following : The Omo-hyoideus is broad, conspicuous and without intersection.
The Biceps flexor is relatively a weak muscle.
The association with the Coraco-brachialis conforms to the primate type.
The Triceps muscle is fully described by Burmeister who, however, includes it in the slip to the olecranon from the Latissimus dorsi.
The third head (Anconeus tsrtius) arises from the supra-condyloid ridge in part.
The three heads do not form a single tendon of insertion.
The first two heads are almost separate and measurably distinct from the third.
The Anconeus constitutes a thick mass of minute fibres occupying the interval between the humerus at the epicondyle and the olecranon.
The Supinator long us is inserted on the dorsal aspect of the trapezium and not on the distal part of the radius, though it is held down firmly to that bone.
This result has been obtained after a careful dissection.
According to Burmeister the tendon runs along the edge of the radius and turns toward the carpus — before reaching this region, however, it is attached to the outer and lower end of the radius, being somewhat broader as it does so.
It passes under the ligamentum carpi dorsalis.
In his account of the Supinator brevis Burmeister does not mention the ossicle in the tendon of origin, which was present in the Academy's specimen.
The Palmaris longus is in closer relation to the Flexor carpi ulnaris than is the muscle first named to the Flexor sublimis digitorum.
The Flexor sublimis digitorum and Flexor profundus digitorum are distinct with the exception of a delicate tendon which unites the muscles as they cross the wrist.
The Flexor profundus digitorum consists of two divisions ; one for the first and second digits is the main mass and arises from the radius, the other passes to the remaining digits.
Each division is made up of two heads.
The above account is distinct from the one elaborately stated by Burmeister, who gives three heads for the muscle, the first as in this essay, the second two heads and an ulnar spindle-shaped fascicle.
It is at the junction of the last named part with the others at the wrist that the conjugate tendon is fixed.
The Flexor longus pollicis arises by two heads, one from the epitrochlea and the other, a long one, from the proximal one-half of the shaft of the radius.
It sends a delicate slip to the Flexor profundus digitorum at the wrist and another to the Flexor sublimis digitorum at the metacarpophalangeal joints.
The Extensor carpi radialis brevior arises in common with the Extensor communis digitorum and quite distinct from the Extensor carpi radialis longior, and, therefore, trends from the epicondyle itself.
The Extensor carpi radialis longior is in common origin with the Supinator longus and, therefore, trends from the bold crest over the epicondyle.
The carpal extensors are not related to each other, but to the adjacent muscles which lie in separate physiological grouping.
The radial carpal extensors are inserted upon the radial side of the base of their respective metacarpal bones.
These facts are significant since they point to flexion of hand or forearm, while the latter is semi prone, which is the position proved by the study of joints to be characteristic.
The Extensor carpi radialis longior goes with the Supinator longus since the two are united, and the Extensor carpi radialis brevoir goes with the Extensor communis digitorum, but the Extensor carpi ulnaris does not go with the Extensor minimi digiti in the sense that the two are united.
The Extensor communis digitorum.
— This muscle is the more superficial of the two extensors.
It does not supply the first finger.
It is composed of two slips which separate at the proximal third of the forearm and are far apart at the wrist ; the inner (radial) passes to the second, third, fourth and fifth fingers, and the outer (ulnar) to the fourth and fifth.
Thus the fourth and fifth fingers are doubly supplied.
Burmeister separates the last named divisions Under the name of the Extensor digiti quarti et quinti, but the remaining part is not the Extensor digiti indicis et medii unless we accept this fascicle as having a wider range of insertion than is normal to T. tarsius.
Assuming that all the extensors (excepting those of the first finger) described by Burmeister are embraced in the above account, a large muscle in the Academy's specimen remains undescribed.
This muscle which is analogous to the Flexor profundus digitorum is much smaller than the Extensor communis.
It arises from both bones of the forearm but not from the humerus, and is inserted into all five fingers.
The tendon to the first finger is given off high up, but unites with an aponeurotic layer which holds together the tendons to the second, third and fourth fingers.
The tendon to the fifth finger is next longest to the first and is without aponeurosis.
The Extensor communis digitorum sends a slip high up from the belly ; it passes through a separate sheath at the wrist (at the head of ulna) and goes to the fourth and the fifth digits.
This probably is the Extensor minimi digiti.
The main muscle is distributed to all the digits.
The Extensor minimi digiti arises entirely from the ulna and supplies all the digits.
Hence the fifth digit receives three extensor tendons.
The Extensor pollicis longus.
— This muscle is normal to T. tarsius.
It is the same as the Abductor pollicis longus of Burmeister.
The Extensor pollicis longus of Burmeister is not present in T. fuscus.
It may be found in the pollical slip of the deep extensor as named in the foregoing paragraph.
The Flexor pollicis brevis and the Abductor pollicis brevis form one muscle.
Burmeister separates them.
The Abductor pollicis arises from the fibrous tissue deep in the palm over the Palmar interossei.
It has no bony origin whatever.
Burmeister assigns an origin from the third metacarpal bone.
His figure gives the impression of an origin from the fourth metacarpal.
The Opponens pollicis is absent.
Burmeister describes and figures this muscle.
The Abductor indicis is a small muscle ; it is described by Burmeister.
The Abductor minimi digiti embracing the Flexor brevis minimi digiti are as in Burmeister's description.
The muscles are imperfectly differentiated.
The Palmar interossei.
— The muscles occupy the opposed sides of the second and third digits, and of the third and fourth digits as given by Burmeister.
The pair of muscles for the third and fourth fingers form a fleshy union at the distal end of the first phalanx and the proximal end of the second.
Traction flexes the finger powerfully.
The muscle to the fifth finger does not flex the finger but extends and abducts it.
For the fourth and fifth fingers the arrangement is as follows : A muscle arises from unciform bone and lies on the radial side of the distal end of the fifth metacarpal bone.
(1).
A fleshy muscle extended forward to the distal end of the first phalanx of the fifth finger.
(2).
From the samehypothenar mass with the foregoing muscles is of a spindle shape, which lies at the ulnar side of the fourth finger ; it becomes a fine thread at the second phalanx into which it is inserted.
Of this group Burmeister briefly says, "the third pair is inserted on the opposed sides of the fourth and fifth fingers."
The Dorsal interossei are four in number and arranged as follows : Second and third fingers one to each side of the first and second phalanges ; one to the radial side of the fourth digit.
All the foregoing have spindle-shaped bellies, which arise from the proximal ends of the respective metacarpal bones.
A somewhat distinct muscle is pyramidal and arises from nearly the entire length of the fifth metacarpal bone as well as the palmar aspect of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones.
The palmar association of the dorsal muscle is marked and confirms Ruge's thesis that these muscles are derivative 1897.]
47 from a palmar group.
Burmeister gives the numeration as above, but the muscles are too closely united to agree with T.fuscus, while the difference in the ulnar muscle of the fourth finger is not given.
In reviewing the muscles of the hand, both intrinsic and extrinsic, one is struck with the fact that the ulnar division of the hand is more highly endowed than the radial.
The extensors of the fingers are connected with the first interphalangeal joints by broader and more powerful bands on the ulnar than on the radial sides.
The Palmar interossei are much larger and more powerful on the ulnar than on the radial sides of the third and fourth fingers.
The Dorsal interosseous muscle for the ulnar side of the fourth finger is much broader and thicker than its fellows.
THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY.
The Biceps femoris arises in common with the Semitendinosus from the ischial tuberosity.
It is with scarcely any disposition to extend down on leg, either in tendon or aponeurosis.
The entire process stops at the proximal fourth of the leg.
One sheet of aponeurosis passes to the crest of the tibia, and to the intermuscular septum between the Gastrocnemius and the Peroneus long us.
The relations of the muscles are quite as in other mammals.
The Semimembranosus is without transverse inscription.
The Semitendinosus possesses one, or at least the belly is digastric.
The muscle last named with the Gracilis and Sartorius form one tripartite muscle.
The extremely weak Biceps, which secures no independent origin, forces one to the conclusion that it is related to the ham strings only, and not to the Gluteus maximus whose relations to the femoral shaft are secured through another associate, namely, the sheet I call the "Annectant Mass."
Burmeister's account of the Biceps is quite different from the foregoing.
The muscle arises from the ischial tuberosity and receives a few fibres only from the Semitendinosus.
The difference is more Fig.
5.
The hamstring muscles of T. fuscus : a, gracilis ; b, sartorius ; c, semimembranosus ; d, semitendinosus ; e, biceps.
apparent than real.
It might with exactitude be said that both Biceps and Semitendinosus have a common ischial stem.
Certainly it cannot be said, as Burmeister asserts, that the Biceps is the most powerful of the bam strings.
The " Annectant Mass " between the Gluteus maximus and the Semimembranosus arises from the transverse processes of the caudal vertebrae just below the sacrum by a line 7 mm.
in breadth, as well as from the tuberosity of the ischium above the origin of the ham strings.
It is inserted by fleshy fibres on the shaft of the femur for a little over one-half of its length.
At the caudal origin it is in contact with the Gluteus maximus at its ischial origin with the ham strings and at its insertion with the Adductor magnus, if, indeed, it may not be said to merge with this muscle.
It cannot be freed from fascia without artificial dissection, being continuous with the fasciculation anteriorly and with the firm connective tissue layer over the Semimembranosus posteriorly.
Burmeister names this muscle the Pyriformis.
The mutilation of the Academy's specimen in the region of the pelvis prevented a satisfactory study being made of the muscles arising from the sacrum and inserted on the bones of the inferior extremity.
This fact does not prevent the observer from deciding for himself the identity of the muscle here described.
The well known disposition of the Semimembranosus to secure an origin from the vertebral column makes it probable that a muscle in the same general region which arises from the vertebral column to be inserted upon the femur might be allied to this ham string.
I propose to separate it from the Pyriformis and place it in a position annectant between the Gluteus maximus and the Semimembranosus.
The Gemelli and Obturator internus answer to Burmeister's descriptions.
The Pectus femoris is small and weak and is but one-sixth as wide as the main mass of the Quadriceps extensor.
The origin of the Rectus is tendinous with an aponeurotic extension which proceeds upward over the outer surface of the Iliacus.
The Vastus externus is the largest part of the muscle and is almost divided into an inner and outer part.
The inner part receives two important accessions from fascicles having extensive fleshy origins from the femur, but the main body of the enormous Vastus externus is free from the femur except at the great trochanter and the head of the tibia.
The Vastus internus resembles the Vastus externus, but receives no accessions.
The mass arising from the lower half of the front of the femur is normal.
The leg can be extended on the thigh scarcely to a right angle.
Yet the great bulk of the Quadriceps is requited to do this much.
The patella is small (4 mm.
-(2b mm.)
while the patellar groove on the femur is deep and long.
This notch is much deeper on the outer than the inner side.
The patella scarcely occupies the groove but lies well toward the intercondyloid notch.
The Plantaris passes almost entirely to the first toe, a fibrous band passing to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe and another joining the Transversalis pedis superficialis.
The Extensor longus digitorum pedis passes to the outer side of the tibia as the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus pollicis pass to the inner side.
It lies beneath the annular ligament and directly in front of the ankle joint, though above the calcaneum it passes under a special ligament which holds it close to the bone last named.
At the mid-tarsal region it again passes beneath a special ligament and forms two aponeurotic expansions, the inner supplying the second, third and fourth, and the outer the third, fourth and fifth digits.
Tracing these tendons back to their origin it is found that the outer division retains the largest fleshy fascicle.
The Peroneus longus (Peroneus primus of Burmeister).
— This muscle exerts no action on the entire foot except in its effect on the first metatarsal bone.
Traction pulls the bone forcibly inward by a bold free motion.
It has no effect on the cuboid bone.
The Flexor communis digitorum is a large, powerful muscle.
It arises from the tibia by fleshy fibres half way down the posterior surface of the shaft.
It unites with the Flexor longus pollicis pedis to form one tendon at the mid-tarsal region.
At this point a strong tenaculum (which serves as a check to extreme contraction) attaches itself to the under surface of the common tendon and holds it to the calcaneum.
I venture to call the Lumb'ricales the para-fascicles.
The first toe has none ; the second one ; the third three ; the fourth two ; and the fifth toes one para-fascicle.
The Tibialis posticus is very small ; it arises high up in the leg and is chiefly derived from the fibula and the interosseous membrane.
The slender thread-like tendon is inserted upon the scaphoid bone.
The Abductor externus minimi digiti is the same as described by Burmeister.
The Abductor interims minimi cligiti of Burmeister could not be traced further than the proximal end of the metatarsal bone, while Burmeister states that it extends along the border of the metatarsus together with the sheath of the Flexor long us to be inserted upon the first phalanx.
The Abductor hallucis arises from the distal end of the scaphoid bone and is inserted on the fibular side of the first phalanx.
The Flexor brevis hallucis profundus takes origin from the cuneiform bones as described by Burmeister, but the two heads named by him do not exist nor is there connection with the first metatarsal as he describes.
It is inserted on the fibular side of the first phalanx.
The Abductor minimi digiti and the Interossei interni are as described by Burmeister.
The Flexor brevis pollicis brevis is a thick, stout mass arising from the cuneiform bones and inserted upon the fibular side of the base of the first phalanx.
Parallel to the foregoing, near the Transversalis pedis and inserted just in advance of it, lies a muscle which corresponds in the respects named to the Transversalis pedis profundus of Burmeister.
But it arises from the ecto-cuneiform bone and has no connection in origin with the shafts of the metatarsi.
Even the Transversalis pedis is without origin from the second or third metatarsi, but arises from the base of the second metatarsus and thus recalls the Abductor pollicis.
The Abductor pollicis pedis arises from the tibial side of the head of the second metatarsal bone.
It is joined by the Transversalis and a slip passes with this muscle to the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, but the main belly is inserted into the second phalanx of the great toe.
Burmeister's account of the "Abductor /la/ZftciV is quite different from the above.
The muscle arises from the cuboid bone, is intimately associated with the plantar aponeurosis, passes obliquely across the sole, and is inserted on the under part of the first phalanx of the great toe, as well as on the sheath of the tendon of the Flexor long us pollicis.
Thus the muscles of the toes are arranged sufficiently different from those of T. tardus to suggest a distinct origin.
The thumb is drawn more powerfully toward the center of the wrist than toward the fifth toe.
In a word it is less opposable than is the case in T. tardus.
The fibres which yield the Abductor are not separable from other fascicles which pass from the ecto-cuneiform forward, and are inserted as one continuous sheet upon the bases of the second and third metatarsi.
Nothing comparable to these fascicles are described by Burmeister.
The Abductor pollicis pedis is quite as described by Burmeister.
Burmeister gives an account of a muscle named by him Abductor hallucis which arises from the plantar fascia and is inserted upon the fibular side of the first phalanx on a level with the foregoing.
No such muscle is found in T.fuscus, but a number of tendinous fibres pass in its place from the plantar fascia to the Transversalis pedisThe Flexor brevis digitorum sends a large fascicle to the toe, and it is possible it is this slip which Burmeister has named separately.
The Abductor digiti minimi extensor and the Abductor digiti minimi internus are distinct muscles corresponding exactly to Burmeister's description.
The Abductor digiti minimi arises by two distinct heads instead of one as described by Burmeister.
Both muscles touch the belly of the Palmar interossei instead of permitting an interval to be defined between them.
The Extensor brevis digitorum pedis in addition to its origin from the calcaneum yields a slender tendon from the belly of the Extensor longus pollicis high up on the leg.
Burmeister does not mention this slip nor is it figured by him.
The first, second and third digits possess separate extensors which are specializations from the Extensor brevis digitorum of human anatomy.
The Plantar interossei.
— Seven muscles are seen on the plantar aspect.
The first muscle is inserted on the tibial side of the second metatarsal bone ; the second and third muscles on opposed sides of the second and third bones ; the fourth and fifth muscles on opposed sides of the third and fourth bones ; the sixth muscle on the fibular side of the fifth metatarsal bone.
The Dorsal interossei.
— Three muscles are seen on the dorsal aspect.
One on the tibial side of the second metatarsal bone answers to the first Plantar interosseous.
One on the tibial side of the third metatarsal bone answers to the third Plantar interosseous; one on the tibial side of the fourth metatarsal bone answers to the sixth Plantar interosseous.
The dorsal muscles are those which at the same time are the most powerful of the plantars.
In other words the plantars which are the more powerful occupy in their surfaces of origin the sides of the metatarsal so completely as to be visible from the dorsal aspect of the foot.
They uniformly arise more superficially on the plantar surface and in part overlap the others.
The more powerful muscles tend to abduct the metatarsi ; the weaker to antagonize these and to adduct the metatarsi.
Burmeister reverses the proportions of the two sets of muscles.
The figure (fig.
11, taf.
5) expressly shows the adducting set and named by him the plantar to be the larger and more superficial.
NOTES ON THE MECHANISM OF THE LIMBS.
The superior extremity is small and weak.
12 Flexion of the elbow is but 10 mm.
as measured by the excursus of the head of the ulna.
The bones of the forearm do not agree with Burmeister's description, while his figure of the relation of the radius and ulna are again quite different from that in T. fuscus.
Instead of a wide interosseous space the specimen shows a narrow one, the bones are almost in contact except at the middle third where the interval is but onehalf mm.
The radius moves scarcely at all on the ulna, so that pronation and supination are not as marked as would be inferred from the size of the Pronator radii teres and the two supinators.
The presence of a bold ridge on the outer side of the humerus above the epicondyle answers to the large Supinator longus in alliance with the Extensor carpi radialis longior.
The hand lies at right angles to the forearm by extreme dorsal traction ; the first row of phalanges is semi-flexed, the second row is acutely flexed, while the third row is extended.
The thumb is not opposable, but the metacarpal bone is sharply adducted so that the phalanx lies under the index finger.
The metacarpo-phalangeal articulation is very loose.
On p. 49, statements are made to account for the longitudinal grasp of the foot.
This position places the Peroneus longus in admirable phase for drawing the tibial margin of the foot in toward the plane of support.
The weight of the body bears not only through the astragalus to the astragalo-scaphoid ligament, but the calcaneum is supported on the sling-like Plantaris as well as on the Gastrocnemius and Soleus.
The amount of strain in the position is indicated by the smooth concave pulley-like surface on the calcaneum, and the insertion of 12 In a skeleton of Tarsius which I identify as that of T. fuscus in the American Museum of Natural History.
New York, the presternum was found to be cartilaginous.
the muscle last named on the lower edge of the bone.
Observation of the specimen when flayed shows a decided antero-posterior curvature of the cervical vertebrae.
The singularly small innominate bone indicates that no correlation can be established between it and the rest of the enormous inferior extremity.
The following are the measurements of the bone : Tuberosity to pubis 15 mm.
; center of acetabulum to vertebrate margin 2i mm.
; width and length of sacral facet 3 mm.
; length of ilium 22 mm.
The ischial spine is very prominent and shows exceptional power in the Obturator internus and Gemellus superior.
While the bone is but 28 mm.
long the rest of the limb measures 183 mm.
13 The knee joint is remarkable for the great contrast between femoral condyles, the outer being twice as large as the inner.
The patellar notch, as already noted on p. 49, is extraordinarily long and deep, being 7 mm.
long, while the condyle is but 3 mm.
The groove appears to represent on the front of the joint the obliquity of the outer tibial tuberosity on the back.
The fibula joins the shaft of the tibia at the beginning of the distal third.
The position of the head is indicated.
Burmeister's description corresponds to the above, though from the figures it could be inferred that the shaft of the bone was outlined throughout, i. e., never having been lost in that of the tibia.
The excursus of the heel (taken as a measurement of the range of knee joint) is 29 mm.
; that of the mid-tarsal joint (taken as a measurement of the ankle movement) is 7 mm.
The astragalus is one-third the length of the scaphoid bone.
The scaphoid at the astragalus rests in front and over the calcaneum, but at the mid-tarsal joint the scaphoid is on the same plane with that of the calcaneum.
The motion between the scaphoid bone and the astragalus recalls that between the radius and the humerus, the position at rest is semipronation, and the excursus is to yet deeper pronation ; there is no supination.
The general aspect of the plantar surface is like that of the forearm in most mammals if the scaphoid and the calcaneum might be compared to the radius and the ulna, while the cuboid and entocuneiform bones might be compared with the pisiform bone and trapezium.
In Tarsius both the cuboid and the ento-cuneiform 13 The thigh, tibia and foot are each about 60 mm.
long when dissected, but in the undissected limb, owing to the flexing of the finger, the foot is 52 mm.
long.
bones form conspicuous projections into the sole, and thereby define the sides of a depression in which lie the conjoined tendons of the Flexor longns digitorum and the Flexor longus pollicis pedis.
The ligamentum plantar e longum ol Burmeister is the same as the suspensory ligament.
It extends pari passu with the elongation of the scaphoid bone and bears a close resemblance to a tendon of a muscle.
It attaches itself to the tibia and the distal end of the scaphoid bone, some fibres being held to the calcaneum opposite the astragalus, others being merged with those forming the posterior ligament of the ankle joint.
The metatarso-phalangeal articulations are extremely loose and the toes are so disposed as to show tibial deflection, the longer ones overlapping the shorter.
The thumb on the other hand shows fibular deflection being drawn toward the palm by powerful muscles.
The first row of phalanges is not extended on that of the metatarsus (as the first row of phalanges is extended on that of the metacarpus) but is on the same line.
The second to the fifth toes resemble the fingers in motion and position, but the great toe remains extended.
The weakness of the foot support is doubtless harmonized with the extent of the knee flexion.
Hence the muscles of the calf practically disappear in the deep recess between the ham strings.
The inclination forward of the trunk is checked by the great mass of the Erector spince muscles, with which the deep groove between the dorsal and broad transverse processes of the thoracic and lumbar vertebra?
correlate.
The tail and its muscular power, especially at its base, may be taken as a balance of weight to that of the trunk, the hip joint being accepted as the fulcrum.
When the limb is extended the hind feet yield a support too feeble to hold up the body.
When the limb is flexed the line of support passes from the foot to the ischium ; even then the trunk inclines forward.
This inclination is checked by the ham strings.
The " spring " consists in the extension from extreme flexion.
Although extension at the knee is greatly restricted, the power necessary to the end is expressed in the enormous Vasti.
According to De Blainville the respective lengths of the calcaneum and scaphoid bone as seen in Tarsius is repeated in Otolienus.
Recalling the fact that these forms are now to be placed in different phylla, we recognize that the elongatiou of the two bones is an adaptive character.
A reasonably good conception of the mechanism of the foot is secured by placing it longitudinally on the upper surface of a small rounded stem.
The pollex holds to the side of the stem, the short second and third digits to the top, and the longer fourth and fifth digits to the outer side.
These dispositions show how well adapted the foot is for both support and prehension.
The method of progression accepted by the animal is not so well shown.
But doubtless the "spring" of the limb enables the foot to quickly let go its hold.
The arrangement might be called one for longitudinal perching as contrasted to the transverse perching of birds and the chameleon.
If the view here expressed be accepted, the positions in which the foot is drawn by Burmeister and Brehm are erroneous.
In Burmeister's memoir the grasp is that of the human hand, the thumb being on one side of a small bough and all the other digits on the other.
In the main figure of Brehm u the foot is transverse to the bough.
In the smaller figure it is longitudinal.
But the bough is so large in the illustration that it makes but little difference what the position of the foot may be.
Cuvier 15 represents the foot in the position here claimed on anatomical grounds to be correct for small boughs.
The inference to be drawn is the following : Tarsius is specially adapted to spring lightly along small boughs and limbs of trees by the longitudinal perch.
It may modify the grasp on large, broad su rfaces.
"Thierleben, I, 274.
15 Regne Animal.
