MARGARITA SHARPII A NEW ALASKAN GASTROPOD.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY Margarita Sharpii n. sp.
Shell thin of lowconoid form with extremely broad funnelshaped umbilicus and very rapidly expanding whorls.
Color dull salmon or brickpink becoming ashy on the spire and within the umbilicus.
Sculpture numerous spiral cords and threads which on the spire are strong alternately smaller then with a tertiary series intercalated the whole becoming less pronounced on the last whorl where by further intercalation of threads the spirals become very numerous in some individuals and in others mostly obsolete  the base with close strong spiral cords outside the edge of the umbilicus the whole surface with fine crowded and somewhat lamellar growthstria the spire with some spaced coarser radial riblets.
Whorls 44 very rapidly exFig.
1. panding the last at the aperture about three times the width of the preceding seen from above  gently convex  periphery angular  base convex the umbilical region broadly excavated nearly as large as the aperture.
Aperture large very oblique salmon colored within with brilliant green reflections but having a wide border within the lip appearing dull whitish from in front but showing red and white reflections seen from below.
Peristome thin deeply excised in the umbilical region above the excision produced forward as a low wall curving around the umbilical edge continuing as far as the posterior termination of the outer lip.
Alt.
7.5 greater diam.
14 lesser 11 mm.
Operculum concave externally with about 8 closely coiled whorls with slightly free overlapping edges.
Dutch Harbor Unalaska Dr. B.
Sharp June 21 1896.
The relations of this species are with M. umbilicalis Brod.
 Sowb.
and 31. vorticifera Dall.
1 The former of these is a Greenland species with the glossy surface and rounded whorls of the North Atlantic Margaritas.
M. vorticifera is found in the Aleutian Islands and Manual of Conchology XI p. 288 pi.
59 f 4850 was taken by Dr. Sharp at Unalaska.
It resembles M. Sharpii closely in color texture and sculpture but differs from it in the following particulars of form  Seen from above the whorls of M. Sharpii increase in breadth very much more rapidly the last becoming far broader near the aperture.
The umbilical area in M. vorticifera is broad and excavated but the umbilicus proper is comparatively small round and deep  while in M. Sharpii the excavated area is not only much larger but the entire cavity is widely open to its beginning.
In M. vorticifera the columellar margin of the peristome is broadly concave along the margin of the funnel passing into a subtriangular dilation above well shown in the front view of Dall's original figures which impinges upon the circular umbilicus and to a small extent vaults it over as in many Helices.
In M. Sharpii the columellar margin is much more deeply excised and its continuation above forms a raised wall curving around the entirely open and far wider umbilicus.
Types are No.
70 554 of the conchological collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
488 1898.
December 6.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
The death of Redwood F. Warner a member Nov. 29 aged 81 years was announced.
Dr. Florence Bascom made a communication on petrographical methods of rock determination illustrated by the Philadelphia belt of crystalline rocks.
No abstract.
December 13.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Thirtyfour persons present.
December 20.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
One hundred and thirty persons present.
A paper entitled Synopsis of the United States Species of the Hymenopterous Genus Centris Fabricius by Wm.
J.
Fox was presented for publication.
Prof. Angelo Heilprin made a communication illustrated by lantern views on the geology and physical geography of the Klondike Gold Mining Region with incidents of a journey to Dawson City.
No abstract.
December 27.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Twentynine persons present.
The following was ordered to be printed 
