A NEW GRASSHOPPER MOUSE FROM NEW MEXICO.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
Among the ten species and races of shorttailed mice of the genus Onychomys known to inhabit the United States we find a surprisingly small amount of color variation or of difference in size and external proportions from the type of the genus 0. leucog aster from Dakota.
The short nearly unicolor blunt tail rounded microtine ears dense silky pelage and buff'gray colors are more or less characteristic of all the species ranging from the Saskatchewan to the Mexican boundary.
A careful study of their cranial characters is thus necessary in determining their relationships.
A specimen of Onychomys in superficial appearance almost identical with leucogaster was recently forwarded to the writer from Mesilla Dona Ana Co. New Mexico by Mr. T. D. A.
Cockerel for identification.
Four specimens of Onychomys from Clapham Union Co. New Mexico prove to be identical with the Mesilla specimen and on comparison with their nearest geographical allies leucogaster brevicaudus and longipes prove to belong to a distinct and undescribed species.
It may be known by the following diagnosis   Onychomys arcticeps sp.
nov. LongNosed Grasshopper Mouse.
Onychomys leucogaster subsp.
 Allen Bull.
Araer.
Mus.
N. H. 1893 p. 74.
''Onychomys leucogaster brevicauda  Allen ibid 1896 p. 253.
Type No.
1529 ad.
  col. of S. N. Rhoads taken by E. E. Thompson at Clapham Union Co. New Mexico Nov. 7th 1893.
General characters.
 About the size of leucogaster with slightly longer tail and ears deeper fulvous less gray coloration above narrower cranium and long slender rostrum.
Color.
 Above uniform ochraceous buff 1 heavily lined with blackish lightest along sides blackest on top of head and around eyes.
A blackish oval spot on upper outer margins of ears.
Tail white with an illdefined narrow stripe of blackishbuff on superior proximal twothirds.
Color of sides at the white margin and on lower rump and thighs deeper ochraceous buff.
Lower parts tawny white as contrasted with the clear pure white of leucogaster.
1 Ridgway's Nomen.
of Colors PI.
V No.
10.
Cranial characters.
 Skull viewed from above contrasted with leucogaster long and narrow the brain case high compressed elongate ovate the rostrum much narrowed and the nasals slender and projecting decidedly beyond the anterior tips of the premaxillaries.
No distinct supraorbital bead as contrasted with longipes from Texas.
Palate ending posteriorly with a convex edge as in torridus as contrasted with the strongly developed median spine of leucogaster.
Measurements of type.
 Total length 150 mm.
 tail vertebrse 45 hind foot 21 ear from crown dry 11.
Average of four topotypes iu same order as above  152  46  22.
Skull  total length 28.6  nasal length 11.3 zygomatic expansion 14.7 mastoid expansion 12 interorbital constriction 4.7  length of mandible 15.3.
