A NEW CHIPMUNK FROM NORTHEASTERN CHINA.
BY GERRIT 8.
MILLER, JR.
In a paper recently published in these Proceedings (1898, pp.
120-125) Mr. S. N. Rhoads refers two chipmunks from the Province of Pechili, northeastern China, to Eutamias asiaticics (Gmelin).
Through the kindness of Mr. Witmer Stone I now have the specimens before me.
They agree perfectly — allowance being made for difference in pelage — with a skin in the United States National Museum taken near Peking, and differ widely from published descriptions of Eutamias asiaticus 1 and from a skin of the latter (in the National Museum) labelled ' Fort TJlba, Siberia.'
2 Considering the isolation of the region inhabited by the Pechili Chipmunk, and the extreme plasticity of the genus Eutamias, it is not surprising that the animal should prove to be distinct from its Siberian congener.
The question immediately arises, however, as to what true Eutamias asiaticus really is, and at present it is impossible to give a wholly satisfactory answer.
Gmelin based his Sciurus striatus a asiaticus primarily on the Sciurus striatus of Pallas, 3 a composite of the Asiatic and American species, but composed chiefly of the former.
The range of the Asiatic animal extends, according to Pallas, from the Dwina River in Russia, east through the whole of Siberia.
That only one species of Eutamias occurs in this vast area is almost beyond the possibility of belief.
But however many forms there may be, and whatever one Pallas may have had in hand when he wrote his description, the animal that he described was approximately like the ' Ulba ' specimen, and consequently very unlike the Chinese form.
Roughly speaking, the Chinese animal is a pale, grayish, brown-striped form much like Eutamias merriami and E. senex, while the ' Ulba ' specimen, together with those usually re1 See, for instance, Allen, Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., Ill, pp.
71, 72, June, 1890.
2 This locality I have been unable to find on any map.
In the Government of Tomsk, however, there is a river whose name is variously spelled as Uba, Ouba and Ooba.
The name on the Museum label may be a lapsus pennse for Uba.
s Glires, p. 378. garded as true asiaticus, resembles the members of the brightly colored, black-striped quadrivittatusgroup.
That Pallas had before him a specimen of the latter type, is clearly proved by his excellent description.
The back he says is marked with five black stripes, of which the middle one extends from nape to base of tail, the outer from shoulder to thigh.
4 The specific name asiaticus, based on this description, is obviously inapplicable to an animal which has only one, or at most three, black dorsal stripes.
The Chinese form, on account of its striking resemblance to the American Eutamias senex may be called : Eutamias senescens sp.
nov. Tamias (Eutamias) asiaticus Rhoads, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia, 189S, p. 122.
(Nee Sciurus striatus a asiaticus Gmelin, 1788, nee Tamias asiaticus Allen, 1890).
Type.— Adult 9 (skin and skull) No.
83,395, United States National Museum, collected August 21, 1896, on low barren hills fifteen miles west of Peking, China, by Geo.
D. Wilder.
General characters.
— Much paler and grayer than Eutamias asiaticus ; only the middle part of central dark stripe constantly black ; feet larger than in a specimen of supposed asiaticus from * Fort Ulba, Siberia.'
Color.
— Type specimen in fresh post nuptial pelage : sides pale yellowish-brown, becoming grizzly gray at shoulders, rump tinged with orange rufous; crown slightly browner than shoulders and nape ; sides of head yellowish-gray, with the usual stripes, the latter light brown and ill defined ; ears concolor with crown, a whitish stripe along posterior border on outer side, a faint yellowish wash within, belly soiled whitish ; tail with three bands of color, a broad, pale yellowish, median area, followed by a black subterminal band and a white border, the pattern very distinct beneath but obscured on the dorsal surface, where in addition to the three color bands normally present, the hairs have dusky bases ; median dorsal stripe extending from nape to base of tail, dusky brown anteriorly, becoming black near middle and fading to pale reddish-brown posteriorly ; second stripe shorter and slightly paler than first; outer stripe broader than either of the others, much paler and less well defined ; outer white stripe dusky whitish (about like belly), slightly broader 4 " Dorsum fasciis quinque nigris, longitudinalibus striatum, quarum media a nucha ad caudam, proxima?
a cervice ad clunes, extimje a scapulis ad femora protenduntur."
than inner, which is much the same color as grizzle of neck and shoulders ; whole back sprinkled with black and reddish hairs, the latter most numerous along the edges of the dark stripes.
Adult female in worn winter pelage (No.
4,601, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Tung Ching Tzu, Pechili, China, May 30, 1897.
Skin considerably over-stuffed) : ground color throughout much paler than in the type, rump scarcely tinged with reddish ; dark stripes on both head and body more conspicuous ; the second dorsal stripe black in middle, the median white stripes paler ; tail much less bushy but similar in arrangement of colors, except at base where new hairs are coming in.
The other specimen ( $ ad.
No.
4,602, Sian Lang Kou, Pechili, China, June 18, 1897), likewise in worn winter pelage is similar to the last, but a shade less pallid.
• Measurements.
— The material at hand furnishes a rather unsatisfactory basis for measurements.
The following, however, are fairly accurate.
Number sex total length tail hind foot front foot m.m.
m.m.
m.m.
m.m.
83,395 9 297 127 40 24 4.601 9 38 22 4.602 $ — 38 23 The 'Fort Ulba' specimen measures: hind foot, 36; front foot, 20.
General remarks.
— The cranial characters of Eutamias senescens have been sufficiently described by Mr. Rhoads in his paper, to which reference has already been made.
This paper is published here by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
July 5.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Nine persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — " Contributions to Neotropical Herpetology."
By Robert Baird McLain. "
Critical Notes on a Collection of Reptiles from the Western Coast of the United States."
By Robert Baird McLain. "
The Eastern Reptiles in the Collection of the Museum of the Leland Stanford University, Zoological Department."
By Robert Baird McLain.
July 12.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
A paper entitled "Descriptions of Three New Rodents from the Olympic Mountains, Washington," by C Hart Merriam, was presented for publication.
July 19.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Twelve persons present.
A paper entitled "A New Land Snail from Clarion Island," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication.
July 26.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
Charles M. Burk, M. D., was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : —
