NOTES ON A FEW NORTHWEST AMERICAN LAND SNAILS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Through the kindness of the Rev.
George W. Taylor, I have recently been able to examine some of the smaller land snails of Alberta and British Columbia, and to compare them with types or typical specimens of species originally described from the United States.
In most cases the northwestward extension of these forms has already been recorded by Mr. Taylor, in several valuable lists published by him in Canada.
A feAV have not hitherto been noticed in print.
Vitrea binneyana Morse.
The specimen from Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, agrees exactly with those from Maine, but the shell reported from Nanaimo as Patula (Pla)iogyra) asteriscus is not that very distinct Maine shell, but Pimdum clapjn Pilsbry.
This extends its northward range a considerable distance.
Mr. Taylor believes that he collected the typical asteriscus at Comox, B.
C, twelve years ago.
I have not seen these specimens.
Vertigo gouldii lagganensis n. v. Fig.
l. Resembles V. gouldii in size and general characters, but the form is more slender ; palatal teeth subequal, the lower one more immersed ; upper segment or ' ' auricle ' ' of the outer lip much more pronounced.
Alt.
2.1, diam.
of last whorl above aperture 1.17 mm.
Laggan, Alberta, collected by the Rev.
George W. Taylor.
V. ventricosa, to which this form Avas formerly referred by Mr. Taylor, is a very much more ventricose, shorter species, with shorter palatal folds.
Pupa decora Gld.
also occurs at Laggan, the specimens having formerly been recorded thence as P. hoppii.
It is evidently a wide spread species in British America and Canada, as specimens in the collection of the Academy from Labrador, Alberta and Alaska attest.
Among other interesting shells received from Mr. F. H. Andrus, were examples of an apparently new Vertigo, a description of Avhich follows: Vertigo andrusiana n. sp.
Fig.
3.
Shell cylindrical ovate, but slightly tapering above, obtuse; glossy, of a dark chestnut color, becoming lighter and somewhat gray on the upper Avhorls.
WhorLs 5h, moderately convex, the last with a moderate crest or ridge, and then a rather wide constriction behind the slightly expanded lip, a slight furrow crossing the constriction and terminating in a slight entering angle on the outer lip.
Aperture rounded and truncate, obstructed by five white teeth; the parietal rather high, short, the columeUar situated rather high, a small denticle close to the base of the columella, and two subequal palatal laminse (their positions indicated by slight indentations outside), the lower one more deeply situated.
Alt.
2.46, diam.
of last whorl above aperture 1.33 mm.
Douglas county, southwestern Oregon, collected by Mr. F. H. Andrus.
Compared with V. binneyana Sterki, this species differs in being much larger, with the outer lip scarcely incurved to define an upper arc of the peristome, and with the palatal folds subequal, the lower one not conspicuously longer.
It resembles Pupa decora Gld.
somewhat in size and color, but is readily separated by the different dentition of the aperture and the transverse groove behind the lip characteristic of Vertigo.
For comparison I figure a specimen of V. binneyana (fig.
2) from Winnipeg, Manitoba, No.
60,465, Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Shells from Helena, Mont., and Seattle, Wash., are perceptibly more cylindrical than that figured.
LEUKOGNATHUS MAEMORATA, A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF
