ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The forms described below occurred in a collection of Japanese mollusca obtained by Marshall K. Gaines, President of Tillotson College, Austin, Tex., while resident and engaged in educational work in Japan some years ago.
They were chiefly collected by his pupils; and being accompanied by exact locality data, are a substantial addition to our knowledge of the terrestrial mollusks of Japau.
Diplommatina tenuiplica n. sp.
Shell similar in form, size and external sculpture to D. collarifera Schra.
and Bttg,, but of a reddish brown color, the columellar lamina within the whorl decidedly thinner and weaker, less oblique ; lamina within the outer wall (visible through from the outside on the front of the last whorl) distinctly shorter.
Crest behind the lip less developed and nearer the lip.
Kashima, Harima (Marshall R. Gaines).
Ennea Iwakawa n. sp.
PI.
XXI, fig.
10.
Shell small, cylindrical, with small, deep, circular umbilicus, the latter 3 or S^ whorls of about equal diameter, those above convexly tapei'ing; white ; surface sculptured with numerous strong but slender longitudinal laminar riblets, curving to the left above, to the right below, and about 27 in number on the last whorl, absent on the apical 1^ whorls.
Whorls 6^, slightly convex, the last tapering below, obtusely keeled at the base.
Aperture small, subtriangnlar, wider above; peristome continuous, narrowly reflexed, emarginate at the position of the parietal lamella, the outer lip with a short rounded sinus above; the cavity contracted by an oblique, deeply placed fold on the columella, two nodular teeth upon the outer lip, the upper one submarginal, the lower further within, and a long, high sinuous parietal fold, which runs about one-half of a whorl inward, bending to the left a short distance within.
Alt.
3.2, greatest diam.
1.5 mm.
; length of mouth 0.8 mm.
Named in honor of Mr. T. Iwakawa, the author of a meritorious essay upon the Japanese species of Viviparus.
Enlota (Acusta) Gainesi nom.
nov. Helix IcEta Gld.
1859, not Helix loeta.
Pfr.
1854.
Vide Novitates ConchologiciE, pi.
143, figs.
17, 18, 19.
This species differs from the typical forms of the subgenus Acusta in having the peristome distinctly reflexed in adult examples.
The figures cited above, represent a specimen not quite mature and less strongly wrinkled than my type.
The color is either olive brown or olive yellow without bands, or varied by two broad bands.
The interior of the aperture is blue gray, the columella pinkish lead color, pale pink at the outer edge, like the whole outer lip.
The surface is glossy, coarsely wrinkled along the lines of growth, showing spaced engraved spirals under the lens, and an extremely minute, dense criss-cross scratching throughout when not obliterated by wear.
Whorls 5^.
Alt.
27, diam.
32 mm.
; aperture 22 mm.
long, 20 wide (measured outside peristome).
Ushika, Prov.
Tishio.
Eulota luna n. sp.
PI.
XXI, figs, l, 2, 3.
Shell low-conic above, flattened below, with a large well-like umbilicus, one-eighth the diameter of the shell, very slowly contracting as it penetrates; white under a thin, pale yellow cuticle, with two narrow chestnut bands, one above, the other below the periphery, the former visible above the suture on the whorls of the spire.
Surface rather glossy, with fine irregular growth wrinkles and some subobsolete spiral lines above.
Spire conic with convex lateral outlines.
Whorls 6|^, slowly, regularl}'^ widening, convex, the last rather more descending, with rounded periphery and base, not deflexed in front.
Aperture oblique, lunate oval; peristome acute, outer margin slightly and the basal more expanded, dilated at the columellar insertion, impinging upon the umbilicus.
Alt.
16^, greatest diam.
20^, least 19i mm.
Yurdamisawa, Prov.
Ishikari (Gaines).
This species, while probably a Euhadra, does not belong to the hichuana group.
It reminds one of Fyramidula solitaria (Say).
I do not know of any closely allied Japanese species.
Eulota (^gista) aperta n. sp.
PI.
XXI, figs.
7, 8, 9.
Shell perspectively umbilicate, the umbilicus exceeding onefourth the diameter, at first rapidly widening, showing much of the penultimate whorl, then gradually narrowing.
Corneous brown.
Surface dull, with fine wrinkles of growth, bearing cuticular laminae which are in large part rubbed off in the specimens described, and under a lens fine subobsolete spiral striae may be seen on the base, at least in places.
Spire low conoidal with slightly convex lateral outlines.
Whorls 5^, moderately convex, slowly increasing, the last decidedly wider, rounded at the periphery and beneath.
Aperture quite oblique, subcircular, but little excised by the penultimate whcrl; peristome thin, very slightly expanded, more so below and on the columellar margin, the latter scarcely dilated at the insertion.
Alt.
8.4, greatest diam.
14.2, least 12.3 mm.
; length and width of aperture 6.2 mm.
(including peristome).
Toyonishikami, Prov.
Nagato (Gaines).
This is one of those Japanese Helices of uncertain position, Avith the peristome less developed than in JEgista, more as in the European " Fruticicolas. "
It is distinguished by the large umbilicus and the minutely sliaggy cuticle.
It has the form but not the texture or color of Helix viacrocycloides Kobelt.
Eulota cavicollis n. sp.
PI.
XXI, figs.
11, 12, 13.
Shell openly and deeply umbilicated, the umbilicus ample, showing all the whorls, its diameter contained 3i or four times in that of the shell.
Corneous brown.
Surface dull, when quite unworn clothed above with short compressed cuticular laminae which gather and hold dirt, but usually these are worn off", leaving the surface finely striated, the striae a little stronger toward the sutures, base smoother.
Spire elevated, the lateral outlines convex.
Whorls 6^ to 7^, very narrow, closely coiled, slowly widening, the last one abruptly and very deeply deflexed in front, constricted behind the peristome.
Aperture nearly horizontal, truncate oblong; peristome thin, narrowly reflexed throughout, the upper margin of the outer lip somewhat straightened or sinuous.
Alt, 4, greater diam.
6^, lesser 6 mm, Alt.
4.7, greater diam.
6, lesser 5.7 mm.
Kyoto (Marshall R. Gaines), A very peculiar little shell, not like anything hitherto reported from Japan, and probably typical of a new subgenus which pending anatomical details may be subordinated to Eiilota, and thus defined: Coilorus, n. s.-g. Mound-shaped, with numerous narrow whorls, ample umbilicus, and subhorizoutal aperture Avith thin, reflexed, discontinuous peristome.
Eulota rudis n. sp.
PI.
XXI, figs.
4, 5, 6.
Shell depressed-conoid, umbilicated, the umbilicus a little over one-fifth the diameter of the shell, rather narrow within, rapidly expanded at the last whorl.
Solid ; dull reddish brown, with irregular whitish lines and some darker streaks.
Surface irregularly striated, the strife stronger at the margin of the umbilicus.
Spire conoidal.
Whorls 6^, slowly widening, the last whorl rather wider, decidedly descending in front, somewhat tubular.
Aperture oblique, rounded, slightly excised by the penultimate whorl ; peristome a trifle thickened, the outer lip somewhat expanded, basal and columellar margins more expanded; terminations consid-erably approaching.
Alt.
11, greater diani.
14, lesser 12.5 mm.
; width of aperture 6.5, oblique height 6 mm.
Omi, Japan (M. R. Gaines).
A rude-lookiug, dark reddish shell, with somewhat the aspect of a Pyramidula.
I know of no closely allied species.
Ganesella satsuma n. sp.
PL XXI, figs.
20, 21, 22.
Shell globose trochiform, narrowly and obliquely perforate, thin, translucent, the internal pillar faintly visible through its substance ; whitish-corneous, tinted a little with brown on the base.
Surface rather glossy, with light, irregular growth wrinkles, cut by fine, close incised spirals which are distinct on the earlier, subobsolete on the last whorl.
Spire elevated, with convex lateral outlines.
Whorls 6^, convex, slowly widening, the last distinctly though shortly deflexed in front, rounded at the periphery, convex beneath, indented around the axis.
Aperture oblique; peristome white, expanded, thickened within, the basal and columellar margins reflexed; basal margin straightened, sloping, with a slight callus within ; columellar margin very short, subvertical, concave, dilated and nearly closing the umbilicus, which it wholly conceals from below.
Alt.
19, greater diam.
19, lesser 17 mm.
Kyoto (Marshall R. Gaines).
Closely allied to G. japoniea, and to some extent a transition species betAveen the japoniea and the 'papillifonnis groups of Ganesella.
It differs from G. japoniea in the greater elevation, completely rounded periphery and almost closed umbilicus.
Ganesella ferruginea n. sp.
PI.
XXI, figs.
14, 15, 16.
Shell shaped much like G. japoniea, russet brown, paler near the suture and outer lip, girt at the periphery with a chestnut band bordered below by a corneous one; umbilicus pale corneous within.
Surface slightly shining, striatulate, seen under a strong lens to be covered with a dense fine granulation, the granules point-like, in places arranged in oblique rows sweeping nearly at right angles with the growth lines, but on the base this arrangement is nearly lost.
Spire convexly conic; whorls 5^, the last rounded at the periphery and beneath, hardly deflexed in front.
Aperture oblique, the lip expanded, thickened within, white; basal lip refiexed, straightened, with a slightly convex caDus within; umbilicus deep, moderately wide, about one-third covered by the dilated columella.
Alt.
13, greater diam.
17J, lesser 16|mm.
Okayama, Prov.
Bizen (Gaines).
Similar to G. japoniea, from which it differs in the russet color nnd minute sculpture.
Ganesella heteroglypta n. sp.
PL XXI, figs.
17, 18.
19.
Shell somewhat trochiform, narrowly and almost closed umbilicate, thin, somewhat translucent, yellow-corneous, with a shght olivaceous tint, a faint darker peripheral band, light-bordered below.
Surface with a dull silken lustre, produced by a clothing of microscopic papillae or low elongated granules, irregularly and densely placed.
Spire elevated, with convex outhnes.
Whorls fully 6, moderately convex, swollen just below the sutures, Ihe last whorl obtusely angular at the periphery, becoming rounded on the latter portion, convex beneath, very slightly deflexed in front, and constricted behind the peristome.
Aperture oblique; outer lip expanded, thickened within, basal hp refiexed, straightened, calloused within; columellar lip very short, dilated, nearly covering the umbilicus.
34 Alt, 16^^, greater cliam.
17, lesser 15 mm.
Fukura, Pro v. Awaji (Gaiues).
Like the two preceding species, this is allied to G. japonica, having the same form of aperture.
It differs from G. satsuma chiefly in the fine sculpture, which consists of a dense granulation, without spiral incised lines.
It differs from G. japonica in sculpture and the reduced umbilicus; from G. ferruginea in the pale coloring, small umbilicus and different sculpture.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXI.
Figures 1-3.
Eulota luna.
4 — 6.
Eulota rudis.
7-9.
Eulota (JEgista) aperta.
10.
Ennea Iivakaiva.
11-13.
Eulota (Coelorus) cavicollis.
14-16.
Ganesella ferriiginea.
17-19.
Ganesella heteroglypta.
20-22.
Ganesella satsuma.
The following annual reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee: REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The average attendance at the meetings during the year has increased to 29.
A quorum Avas lacking twice in midsummer, while the largest attendance at any meeting was 143.
The plan of sending postal card notices of the meeting has been continued with good results.
When the communications have been records of original observations they have been reported by the authors and published in the Proceedings.
Such, of course, are of most importance, but in their absence it has been found desirable to secure re'sumes of progress in various fields of science, reports of collecting trips and explorations, remarks on current additions to the museum and other matters not strictly original, but yet of interest to those who find in them sufficient reason for attendance at the meetings.
Communications have been made by Messrs. J. C. Morris, Goldsmith, Dixon, Keeley, Calvert, Schumo, Heilprin, Pilsbry, Dall, Woolman, Boyer, Stone, G. Vaux, Jr., William S, Vaux, Jr., Miller, C. Morris, Mercer, S. Brown, Holt, Sharp, Holmau, Skinner, Morsell, A. E. Brown, Bryant, MacFarlane, Harshberger, Cockerell, Rand, Lyman, IT.
C. Smith, Schaeffer, Hamilton, Rhoads, Palmer, Moore, H. C. Chapman, F. M. Chapman and James.
Five hundred and thirty-eight pages of the Proceedings, illustrated by eighteen plates, and the second number of the eleventh volume of the Journal have been published, the latter consisting of one hundred and thirty-eight pages and five plates.
In addition forty-nine pages of the third number of the volume profusely illustrated by text figures, a continuation of Mr. Clarence B. Moore's papers on southern burial mounds, have been printed in advance at the expense of the author.
Forty-one papers have been presented for publication, as follows: H. A. Pilsbry 6, H. W. Fowler 4, Witmer Stone 4, William J.
Fox 3, Gerrit S. Miller 3, E. G. Vanatta 2, J. Percy Moore 2, Phihp P. Calvert 2, James Francis Abboit 2, C. W. Johnson 1, Thomas Meehan 1, Katherine J. Bush 1, T. D. A. Cockerell 1, Harry C. Oberholser 1, John W. Harshberger 1, Rev.
William T. C." Morsell 1, Clarence B. Moore 1, Theodore D. Rand 1, C. N. E. Eliot 1, George and William S. Vaux, Jr., 1, H. A. Pilsbry and T. D. A. Cockerell 1, H. A. Pilsbry and Edw.
G. Vanatta 1.
Thirty-seven of these have been printed in the Proceedings, one ia the Journal, two remain to be acted on, and one was withdrawn by the author.
The Entomological Section (American Entomological Society) has issued 306 pages and 7 plates of the Entomological News, and 309 pages and 5 plates of the Transactions.
The first series of the Manual of Conchology having been completed last year, the publications of the Conchological Section have been confined to the section of Pulmonata, as it has been deemed advisable to postpone, for the present, work on the marine bivalves, which will constitute the continuation of this important contribution to conchology, if the resources of the Section will warrant the undertaking.
One hundred and seventy-six pages of Vol.
XII of the second series, Pulmonata, illustrated by 46 plates, have been published.
The Academy's publications, therefore, during the year, have amounted to 1416 pages and 81 plates, a gratifying increase over the issue of last year.
The statistics of distribution are as follows : Proceedings, mailed to subscribers, .
.
.... 78 " mailed to exchanges, 102 " sent to exchanges through the International Bureau (Smithsonian Inst.
), .
.
.
442 622 Journal, mailed to subscribers, 37 " mailed to exchanges, 14 " sent to exchanges through the International Bureau (Smithsonian Inst.
), .... 54 105 The edition remains as heretofore, 1,000 copies of the Proceedings and 500 copies of the Journal.
Cases have been erected on the upper floor of the museum building for the storage of the stock of the Academy's publications remaining on hand.
It is hoped they may remain here until disposed of by sale or exchange.
The plates damaged by the flood of last year have not yet been reprinted.
Eleven members have been elected since the last report.
During the same period the deaths of fourteen members have been announced, five have been dropped for non-payment of dues, and seven resignations have been recorded, making a net loss of fifteen.
Twelve correspondents have been added to the roll and the deaths of twelve have been recorded.
A proposition to revise the By-Laws was referred to the Council, February 21.
After careful consideration at one stated and two adjourned meetings an amended code was reported to the Academy.
It was adopted after reading, at meetings held April 27, May 2 and 9.
The most important changes embodied in the new code are the substitution of Assistant Curatorships, the titles and duties of which are to be defined by the Council, for the Professorships, the repeal of the clause limiting the possible continuous term of the presidency to four years, and providing for the appointment of a Committee on Accounts in addition to the Committee on Finance.
Numerous verbal alterations were also made, redundancies removed and related clauses placed in juxtaposition, resulting, it is believed, in a clearer and more explicit code than that which it replaces.
The thanks of the Academy were voted to Miss Adeline S. Tryon for her generosity in satisfying a mortgage of $5,000 on a property devised to the Conchological Section by her brother, Mr. George VV.
Tryon, Jr. A committee consisting of jNIessrs.
Nolan, Montgomery, Sharp, Pilsbry and Fox was appointed at the request of the representative of the committee on the proposed international catalogue of scientific literature, to consider the preliminary announcement, and to advise as to the desirability of the provisions and methods embodied therein.
The committee presented a report March 28, 1899, which was adopted and ordered to be forwarded as the action of the Academy.
The lecture hall and library were used for the annual meeting of the American Ornithologists' Union, the most successful, it is believed, in the history of the society, and for the first autumn ession of the Pennsylvania Library Club.
Miss Harriet M. Wardle was appointed a Jessup Fund student under the provision for females made by the late Mrs. Bloomfield H. Moore as an addition to the trust endowed by her father.
A committee has been appointed by the President, at the instance of the American Philosophical Society, to represent the Academy at a meeting to be held in commemoration of the late Dr. D. G. Brinton, who held the position of Professor of Ethnology and Archseology in the Academy from February 25, 1884, until his death.
The Anthropological Section, not having held sessions or presented a report during the preceding twelve months, was, under the By-Laws, declared at the meeting of the Academy held December 27, 1898, to be no longer in existence.
Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
During the past year, commencing December 1, 1898, there have been received from one hundred and ten societies, museums, libraries, etc., one hundred and eighty-six acknowledgments of the receipt of the publications of the Academy, and from forty-four societies, libraries, etc., fifty-six notices that their publications have been forwarded to the Academy.
Fourteen applications for exchange and for supply of deficiencies in sets of the Academy's publications, logether with eleven circulars and invitations to the Academy to participate in congresses or meetings, and seven announcements of the deaths of scientific men, have also been received, and when necessary, answered.
The deaths of twelve correspondents have been recorded.
Four hundred and twenty-nine acknowledgments of gifts to the library have been forwarded.
Respectfully submitted, Benjamin Sharp, Corresjjonding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
535 Since the first of December, 1898, the accessions to the library, properly catalogued and placed, have amounted to 4,874.
Of these, 4,213 were pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 647 volumes, 13 maps and one photograph.
This is an increase of 405 pieces over the growth of the previous year.
They have been received from the following sources: Societies, .... 2,045 I. V. Williamson Fund, 1,216 Editors, 855 Authors, 179 U.S. Department of Agriculture, James Aitken MeigsFund, U. S. Department of the Interior, Wilson Fund, .... Pennsylvania State Library, Department of Agriculture, Cape of Good Hope, F. W. Lewis, M.D., .
.
U. S. Department of State, Henry C. Chapman, M. D. , Geological Sui'vey of Missouri, Trustees of the Indian Museum, Comite Geologique Russe, Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning, .... Department of Mines, New South Wales, .
Trustees of the British Museum, United States Treasury Department, .... 128 69 33 32 29 10 Geological Survey of North Carolina, .
Geological Survey Georgia, .
Commission Geologique de Finlande, William J.
Fox, Ministry of Public Works, France, .... U. S. Dept.
of Labor, Conchological Section the Academy, Angelo Heilprin, .
Biuroului Geologicu, Ron mania, .
.
.
.
, Geological Survey of In dia, Department of Mines, Vic tori a, Thomas Meehan, .
Geological Surveyof Mich igan, Geological History Canada, Sydney J. Hickson, .
Geological Commission, Portugal, U. S. Fish Com.
.
.
, Volta Bureau, Washing ton, D. C, .
.
.
, and Natura Survey 536 [189&.
Bentham Trustees, Kew Geological Commission of Gardens, 2 Mexico, 1 Secretary of State, Mexico, 9 William Beer, .... 1 Department of Marine Mary S. Schively, .
.
1 and Fisheries, Canada, 2 International Geological Library of Congress, .
.
2 Congress, 1 Illinois State Bureau of Geological Surv.
of Iowa, 1 Labor, 2 Geological Survey of New U. S. War Department, Jersey, 1 U. S. Coast and Geodetic Trustees of the Australian Survey, Museum, 1 U. S. Civil Service ComSanta Ana Chamber of mission, Commerce, .... 1 Francis J. Duffy, .
.
.
Cambridge Univ.
Press, 1 Charles E. Smith, .
.
.
Bernice Pauahi Bishop Maryland Geol, Survey, .
Museum, 1 W. W. Jefferis, .
.
.
New Zealand Government, 1 Government of New Miss E. Field, .... 1 South Wales, .
.
.
Department of Geology, Geological Survey of AlaIndiana, 1 bama Clarence B. Moore, .
.
1 C. H. Vinton, M.D., .
Jacob Cox Parsons, .
.
1 Department of Mines, Geological Survey of ISTova Scotia, .... West Virginia, ... 1 Pittsburg Filtration ComGeological Survey of mission, Minnesota, .... 1 H. C. Wood, M.D., .
.
Henry A. Pilsbry, .
.
1 Messrs. Little, Brown & L, Doderlein, .... 1 Co., 1 They were distributed according to subjects to the several departments of the library, as follows: Journals, .
.
.
.
3 878 Geology, 210 Botany, 182 Agriculture, .
.
.
.
109 General Natural History, 104 Voyages and Travels, .
52 Miscellaneous, .... 44 Conchology, .... 40 Entomology, .... 38 Mammalogy, .... 34 Anatomy and Physiology, 33 Ornithology, .... 31 Anthropology, .... 26 | Mineralogy, .... S Medicine, 23 i Ichthyology, .... 8 Physical Science, ... 17 : Bibliography, .... 7 Helminthology, .
.
.
11 Chemistry, 6 Geography, 10 1 Encyclopaedias, ... 3Two hundred and forty-nine volumes have been bound, nearly all at the expense of the special funds.
A much larger appropriation than is at present available for this work is a pressing necessity.
The additional shelving supplied by nine new cases on the entresol floor has measurably relieved the crowding in the English and a part of the German sections of the library of periodicals and journals.
The remaining portions still remain so crowded as to make the contents difficult of access.
It is hoped that additional room may be secured during the coming year.
About five hundred volumes of industrial and miscellaneous reports, in no way related to the natural sciences, were, by direction of the Council, transferred to the Free Library, where they Avill be placed at the service of those interested in them, thus increasing their usefulness and making available the space occupied by them for the arrangement of works of more importance to the Academy.
Like ends were secured by the printing and distribution of a catalogue of the duplicate books which had been accumulating for years.
The list embraces 1,154 titles of 1,061 volumes and 1,470 pamphlets.
An intimation having been received from Washington after the issue of the catalogue that government publications could not be thus disposed of by societies to which they had been sent, all such volumes and pamphlets were withdrawn from sale so as to prevent misunderstanding, although some of those on the list were gifts from other sources than the departments of the government and some were paid for by exchange.
The sales, Avhile not very numerous, have much more than repaid the cost of printing and distributing the list.
With the cooperation of the Free Library of Philadelphia, a transcript of our card catalogue of periodicals has been made as a contribution to a proposed cooperative catalogue of journals in the libraries of the city.
The Academy's contribution consists of upward of 2,500 titles, many of them not found in other collections.
When issued the work will be a most important contribution to bibliography.
It will not only inform the student of sources of information, but also prevent unnecessary and often expensive duplication, the possessions of one library being at the service of the patrons of the others, of course under the rules governing the several associations.
The October meeting of the Pennsylvania Library Club was held in the hall of the Academy.
Your Librarian made a communication on the history and resources of the library, concluding with a short contribution to paleoutological history, which, while not germane to the objects of the Club, seemed to interest those in attendance.
Dr. Sharp reports that the lantern slides of which he has charge now number 980.
The collection embraces subjects in all departments of natural history and furnishes most desirable illustrations for the courses of lectures delivered under the auspices of the Academy.
It again gives me pleasure to acknowledge the efficiency of my assistant, Mr. William J.
Fox.
Edward J. Nolan, Llhrarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The general collections, with all the additions of the year in the care of the Curators, are in an excellent state of preservation.
A large amount of work has been accomplished since the last report in rearranging the specimens in the old building.
The dry invei'tebrates have been placed in new cases, so far as they could be arranged therein, though some of the geographic series have had to be temporarily stored in packing cases.
The display series has been cleansed and entirely relabelled.
The remaining cases in the upper gallery have been removed from the damp walls, which have been whitened, thus securing additional light.
The many large specimens of minerals formerly displayed in the gallery have been placed in a case on the first floor where they have been labelled and arranged to much better advantage. '
On the floor devoted to the mammals in the new building, a new mahogany and plate-glass case has been provided for the Carnivora, and another large one for Ungulates through the Mary Jeanes Fund, while another case of similar character has been presented by Dr. Francis W. Lewis for the reception of birds on the upper floor.
Four large storage cases have been j)rovided for mammal skins, and placed on the fifth floor of the new building.
In the department of Archaeology, Mr. Clarence B. Moore has presented one upright mahogany case with plate-glass sides and shelves, and one horizontal case for the accommodation of his rapidly increasing collection, and Dr. Dixon has provided a showcase for the display of certain human remains.
Besides these additions, considerable work has been done in improving the building, the entire vestibule on Race street having been repainted, and the lavatories all completely renovated, and modern flttings introduced.
Through the liberality of jNIr.
Clarence B. jNIoore, our museum has, for the first time in its history, been thrown open to the public on Sundays between the hours of one and five o'clock.
This innovation has met with popular approval, the attendance of visitors being very large, and composed mainly of persons who would otherwise have been unable to view the collections.
The progress in adding to, rearranging, classifying, labelling and caring for the collections during the year has been satisfactory.
The Conservators of the several Sections have devoted much time to the care and classification of the specimens in their respective departments.
Valuable work has been perfox*med by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry in the Conchological ; by Messrs. Thomas Meehan and Stewardson Brown in the Botanical ; by Dr. Henry Skinner, Dr. Philip P. Calvei-t and ]Mr. Charles Liebeck in the Entomological, and Messrs. Lewis Woolman and Theodore D. Rand in the Geological departments.
Rev.
L. T. Chamberlain, special Curator of the Isaac Lea collection of Eocene Mollusca, has continued to add valuable material during the year, bringing the total number of entries up to 5,161.
Dr. Chamberlain has now enlarged the scope of the collection to include the Oligoceue.
About one hundred and sixty species from the Vicksburg and Red Bluft' horizons have been already incorporated, while much foreign Oligocene material, not yet labelled, is on hand.
He proposes to send a collector to the principal exposures to procure new material.
Mr. C. W. Johnson has continued his work on the collection, completing the arrangement of the Eocene material.
Mr, Theodore D. Rand, special Curator, has spent much time in the arrangement and cataloguing of the William S. Vaux collection of minerals.
These services are more specifically set forth in the reports of the several sections.
Important service has also been rendered by Mr. Witmer Stone, assistant to the Curators, in all departments of the museum, especially in that of Ornithology.
Assistance in the arrangement and care of the collections has also been received from the students of the Jessup Fund.
Mr. H. W. Fowler has made a systematic study of many of the families of fishes in the collection, and identified a large number of unlabel led specimens.
Mr. E. G. Vanatta has done excellent work on the mollusca and other invertebrates ; Mr. S. H, Hamilton on the minerals and Mr. A. F. Satterthwait on the insects.
The additions to the collections during the year have been important.
The valuable Hoopes collection of North American Birds renders the Academy's material in this department equal to any in the world.
A series of American birds presented by Dr. S. W. Woodhouse contains much of historic interest.
The collection of local fishes I'eceived from Mr. H. W. Fowler, comprising several thousands of specimens, is a valuable accession, containing in large series many forms previouslv but poorly represented in the museum.
The series of painted casts of American snakes presented by Mr. Clarence B. Moore is equal to any other such representation of Ophidia in this country.
The Zoological Society of Philadelphia has presented many valuable specimens, the mounting of which by the Academy's preparator illustrates strikingly the advance in taxidermic art, Avhen compared with the objects formerly composing the cabinets.
Specimens have been loaned during the year to Lewis Woolman, F. L. Scribner, G. A. Boulenger, J. M. Coulter, G. S. Miller, H. M. Smith, W. H. Osgood, T. Waylaud Vaughau, Robert Ridgway, H. C. Oberholser, J. Dwight, Jr., R. H. Howe and C. L, Lochman.
Henry C. Chapman, Chairman.
KEPORT ON THE WILLIAM S. YAUX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections would respectfully report that a rough list of all the species in the collection, with the number of specimens iu each, has been prepared, and that a fair copy of it is being transcribed in a book to be kept as a catalogue.
In addition to this, a large number of labels have been corrected.
The additions to the collection have numbered but twenty-seven, but some of them are very tine specimens, particularly two of barite, one of fluorite and one of rhodochosite, said to be the finest ever found.
A great deal more time than the present Curator' can possibly give to it, ought to be spent upon this valuable collection to make it as nearly perfect as possible.
He desires to acknowledge the valuable assistance of Mr. George Vaux, Jr., in the procuring of specimens, and in advice, and of Mr S. Harbert Hamilton in the cataloguing, etc.
Respectfully submitted, Theodore D, Rand, Curator.
REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
The Section has held ten meetings during the year with the usual average attendance.
A large Beck binocular microscope, with outfit of numerous objectives and accessories, was received by bequest, for the use of the Section, from the late Dr. Joseph J. Kirkbride.
Numerous communications were made during the year, and the following papers and communications were presented at the meetings of the Academy: " Evolution of the Microscope," by Dr. J. Cheston Morris. "
Diatomaoeous Deposits at the Mouth of Peusauken Creek," by Messrs. Lewis Wool man and C. S. Boyer. "
Nematode Worms," and " The Oyster Crab," by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. "
SeAvage Poisons," by Mr. Holman. "
Parasites of the Oyster," by Mr. T. S. Parvin. "
On the Structure of Diatoms," by Mr. T. C Palmer.
The communications of importance made to the Section were by Mr. F. J. Keeley, on the spectrum analysis of diatomine, on a Holothurian Parasite by Dr. J. C. Morris, and on observations of various material contributed by Mr. S. A. Schumo, Mr. John A. Shulze and Mr. Lewis Woolman.
The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Director, .... J. Chestou Morris, M.D.
ViceDirector, .
Treasurer, Conservator, Corresponding Secretary, T. Chalkley Palm.er.
Lewis Woolman.
F. J. Keeley.
John G. Rothermel.
Recorder, .
.
.
.
C. S. Boyer.
Charles S. Boyer, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The main activity of the Conchological Section, as in former years, has been expended upon the continuation of the Manual of Conchology, which has now reached the thirteenth volume of the second series.
The Conservator has been chiefly occupied during the year with the revision of the family Bulimulidai, the work on American species being now completed, the specimens relabelled and returned to the museum.
Various changes have been made in the museum, the principal one being the removal of the land shells of the United States (excepting Succinea and Pupa) from the gallery to the study room on the library floor.
This collection was formerly crowded into thirty-six drawers under the cases of fresh-water shell?, and had long since outgrown the space available.
It now occupies eighty -one drawers, leaving the space formerly used for the expansion of the fresh-water shells.
The accessions to the museum number about 4,000 trays and bottles, including many species new to science, as well as a larger number new to our collection.
None of this material has been purchased, and but an inconsiderable part was obtained in exchange, nearly the whole having been sent by correspondents of the Section in America and abroad for identification, or with the understanding that it be worked up, or to further the work in progress in the Manual of Concliology.
It will therefore be seen that much time must be devoted to this work, in order to keep the collection of the Academy abreast of others able to purchase freely.
Among the more important accessions may be mentioned a large series of land and fresh-water shells collected by Mr, S. N. Rhoads in Florida and Mexico, a series of Samoan Opisthobranchs collected and given by Mr. C. N. E. Eliot, and a valuable lot of exotic slugs, given by the R^v.
A.
B. Kendig, adding greatly to what is now by all odds the largest collection of slugs in America.
The collection made by Mr. Rhoads, obtained in exchange for identification, contains the types of some twenty-five new species.
That of Mr. Eliot the types and figured specimens.
Dr. J. C. Cox, Mr. H. Suter, Dr. H. von Ihering and others have continued their gifts of foreign mollusks, while the American series has profited by the sendings of about seventy -five persons, among whom Rev.
E. H. Ashmun, Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, Messrs. George H. Clapp and L. N. Frierson may be mentioned as contributing material of especial value.
The Conservator, in company Avith Dr. Montgomery and Prof. Conklin, made a collection of marine invertebrates in Biscayne Bay, Florida, and later made a vacation journey to the Great Smoky Mountains.
A very large collection of the mountain mollusks was made, including some rare and new forms of excessively restricted range.
Mr. J. H. Ferriss has contributed a valuable series from mountain localities south of those visited by myself.
The Conservator acknowledges valuable assistance received from Mr. C. W. Johnson, of the Museum Committee, and has also been aided throughout the year by Mr. E. G. Vanatta, Avhose efficient Avork deserves high commendation.
The officers elected to serve during the ensuing year are as follows : Director, ..... Benjamin Sharp, M.D.
ViceDirector, .... John Ford.
Recorder, Edw.
J. Nolan, M.D.
Corresponding Secretary, .
.
Charles W. Johnson.
Treasurer, .
.
.
.
S. Raymond Roberts.
Librarian, .... Edw.
J. Nolan, M.D.
Conservator, .... Henry A. Pilsbry.
Respectfully submitted, H. A. Pilsbry, Conservator.
REPOBT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
During the present year the regular meetings of the Section have been hekl and the average attendance was twelve persons.
The verbal communications have been of interest and have had scientific value.
The collections have been cared for and are in a good state of preservation.
Many spacimens have been acquired both by purchase and donation; the more important being the Griffith collection of exotic Coleoptera, numbering 10,000 specimens purchased from the heirs of the late Dr. H. G. GriflSth; donations from H. A. Pilsbry, 212 specimens from Florida and Tennessee; E. G. Vanatta, 460 specimens from Maryland; Dr. A. D. Smith, J. E. and G. Farnum, 103 specimens from Manchuria; R. Weber, 93 specimens from Palestine; H. Skinner, 178 specimens from Utah; H. W. Wenzel, 150 specimens from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
The Academy has purchased two handsome mahogany cases for the plaster casts of butterflies presented by Mr. C. H. Hutchinson.
The Entomological News, the journal of the Section, has been continued, and the volume for the year completed with 304 pages and six plates.
One member has died, and three associates were elected.
The Section needs more room space, and a Conservator who can devote all his time to the exacting work required to care for the collections and incorporate the large amount of new material constantly being acquired.
At the annual meeting held December 28, the following officers were elected for the year 1900 : Director, ViceDirector, Treasurer, .
Conservator and Recorder, Secretary, .
Philip Laurent.
.
H. W. Wenzel.
.
E. T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner, M. D. .
Wilham J.
Fox.
Henry Skinner, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The slow but steady progress that' has marked the history of the Botanical Section for several years still continues.
The meetings have been held at the regular stated periods, distinguished botanists have been present, and communications of interest received and discussed.
Field meetings in connection with allied societies in the city have been found of much value in bringing together those with a community of interest.
The proposition to raise $20,000 as a herbarium fund in memory of our lamented fellow -member, John H. Redfield, reached about one-fourth of the amount ; arrangements were being made to increase the fund, when it became desirable for the Academy to make a strenuous effort to raise money for another purpose.
Not to divide the interest it was thought best to defer the Section's effort.
It is, however, pleasant to record that from this fund the collectiona of C. C. Pringle for the past three years have been secured.
Contributions of specimens have been made by Steward son Brown, C. F. Saunders, William M. Cauby and Anna C. Hartshorne.
The genera formerly composing the North American herbarium have been brought into proximity with the same genera in the general herbarium.
The plants are still kept in their separate genera covers, but the j^resent arrangement favors comparison.
This work has been accomplished by the Conservator, aided by Mr. Uselma C. Smith.
The North American herbarium has been enriched by the tine herbarium of the late Mr. William Wynne Wister, a gift from his family.
The specimens are in an admirable state of preservation.
The work of mounting and verifying the specimens in the general herbarium, assumed by the Director since the death of Mr. Redfield, has reached only a few orders beyond those recorded last year, the Director having given the season chiefly to labelling, mounting and distributing the collections long on hand, Schlechter's South African plants, Sharp's Arctic plants, and the magnificent collections by Bang in Bolivia, have thus become an integral portion of the herbarium.
In the early part of the summer Prof. Gandoger offered to exchange a copy of his unique work, the Flora of Europe, in twenty-seven volumes, for its value in North American plants.
The Section has never had the time to arrange for such exchanges.
In this instance Mr. U. C. Smith generously undertook to collect from botanical friends nearly 1,200 species of plants required, 35 They were properly labelled and shipped, and the volumes received in exchange have been transferred by the Botanical Section to the library of the Academy.
At the annual meeting in December the following officers were elected to serve for the enpuing year : Director, ..... Thomas Meehan.
ViceDirector, .... Charles E. Smith.
Conservator and Treasurer, .
.
Stewardson Brown.
Corresponding Secretary, .
.
Joseph D. Crawford.
[ Recorder, ..... Charles Schiiffer, M.D.
Respectfully submitted, Thomas Meehan, Director.
Report of Conservator.
— In making his report for the year, the Conservator of the Botanical Section is pleased to be able to state, that the work in the herbarium has been carried on in the usual satisfactory manner, though the amount accomplished has been necessarily limited.
The rearrangement of the herbarium, referred to in last year's report as in progress, was completed in the early part of the present year, bringing all the flowering plants, with the exception of some special collections, together in the two rooms on the library floor.
This arrangement will be found of great convenience to those making use of the herbarium for comparative study.
The work of mounting the general herbarium has been continued during the year, the specimens being prepared and names verified as usual by Mr. iNIeehan.
The additions received have been the herbarium of the late Wilham Wynne Wister, presented to the Academy in the early part of the year by his family, and comprising several thousand plants, mostly North American.
The specimens are all in an excellent state of preservation and will make an interesting addition on account of containing specimens from many localities in or around the city, which have now been destroyed.
Six hundred specimens of Mexican plants have also been added through purchase from the interest of the Redfield Fund, together with about three hundred specimens of Pennsylvania plants from Pike and Somerset counties, presented by Messrs. C. F. Saunders and Stewardson Brown, a number of North American plants from Mr. William M. Canby, and one hundred and fifty California plants from Miss Anna C. Hartshorne.
Were more time at the Conservator's disposal it would be an easy matter to materially increase the herbarium as well as library througli the medium of exchanges as is done in other institutions, and it is to be hoj)ed that some arrangement may be efiected in the near future that will make this possible.
The Conservator wishes to express his thanks to the membei's of the Section in general and to Messrs. Thomas Meehan and Uselma C. Smith in particular for the valuable assistance rendered during the year.
Respectfully submitted, Stewardson Brown, Conservator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section would respectfully report that nine meetings of the Section have been held during the year, with a marked increase of interest and of value in the communications.
The Section is especially indebted to Dr. Florence Bascom, of Bryn Mawr College, who gave a lecture on the minerals of rock sections, illustrated by excellent slides shown by electric light, through the courtesy of the Franklin Institute, at its hall, the polariscope being furnished without charge by Messrs. Queen & Co. Two interesting and largely attended excursions were made, one to Doylestown, Buckingham Mountain, and New Hope, the other to Bridgeport, Henderson Station and Port Kennedy.
Additions to the museum have been less than usual.
It is worthy of consideration whether this may not be due to the fact that a large part of the collection formerly displayed is now .where it cannot readily be seen.
It is hoped that when means can be secured for the better display a greater interest may be developed.
The following officers were elected for the ensuing year : Director, Theodore D. Rand.
ViceDirector, .... William W. Jefteris.
Conservator, .
.
.
.
.
F, J. Keeley.
Corresjjonding Secretary and Recorder, Charles Schiifier, M.D.
Treasurer, ..... Emma Walter.
Respectfully submitted, Theodore D. Rand, Director.
REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The ornithological collections of the Academy remain in practically the same condition as last year, lack of cases still preventing the removal of the main exhibition series to the new building, where it is evenmally to be displayed.
This collection has, however, been carefully examined during the year and the specimens in each family systematically arranged, which adds materially to the ease of consulting them.
The Delaware Valley Club collection has been largely increased and entirely relabelled, full information being given regarding each specimen, and a card added, on which the distribution and abundance of each species in Pennsylvania and New Jersey are described.
The Club has met regularly during the year at the Academy, and on November 13-16, 1899, the American Ornithologists' Union held its annual congress in the building.
This is the first time that a congress has been held in Philadelphia, and it is gratifying to know that the attendance of members and the number of papers presented was greater than on any previous occasion.
The most important accession during the year has been the Josiah Hoopes Collection of North American land birds, which was already on deposit, and which has now been purchased by friends of the Academy.
This collection of eome 8,000 specimens renders the Academy's series of North American land birds nearly complete, and adds a large number of species heretofore lacking.
The Fowler collection of Pennsylvania and New Jersey birds has been added to the Stone collection already deposited, and being rich in water birds the two form a very complete local study series.
Dr. S. "W. Woodhouse also presented a valuable collection formed by him many years ago, which contains much of historic interest.
The main collection of skins has been carefully examined during the year, and found to be in an excellent state of preservation.
Better accommodations are, however, badly needed for a number of families of Old World birds which are temporarily stored in packing cases, but which should be arranged in air tight tin cases to ensure their safety.
The Conservator wishes to acknowledge much assistance from Mr. H. W. Fowler, student of the Jessup Fund, and to Mr. J.
A. G. Kehn, who has throughout the year voluntarily given his assistance in the care and arrangement of the ornithological collections.
The collections have been very extensively consulted during the year, and many specimens have been loaned to ornithologists in other institutions.
At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 18, 1899, the following officers were elected : Director, .... Spencer Trotter, M. D. Vice-Director, .
Secretary, .
Recorder, .
Conservator and Treasurer Respect George Spencer ]\Iorris.
William A. Shryock.
Stewardson Brown.
Witmer Stone, ully submitted.
Wither Stone, Conservator.
550 [1899.
The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Committee on Accounts to serve during 1900 was held with the following result : President, Vice-Presidents, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Seartary, Treasurer, .
Librarian, .
Curators, Councillors to serve three years, Committee on Accounts, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. Thomas Meehan, Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D.D.
Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Benjamin Sharp, M.D.
George Vaux, Jr. Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry C. Chapman, M.D., Arthur Erwin Brown, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D.
Thomas A. Robinson, Chax'les H. Cramp, Charles Morris, Isaac J. Wistar.
Uselma C. Smith, Charles Morris, William L. Baily, Harold Wingate, Lewis Woolman.
COUNCIL FOR 1900.
Ex-qfficio.
— Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., Thomas Meehan, Rev.
Henry C. McCook.
D.D., Edward J. Nobn, M.D., Benjamin Sharp, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry C. Chapman, M.D , Arthur Erwin Brown.
To serve Three Years.
— Thomas A. Robinson, Charles H. Cramp, Charles Morris, Isaac J. Wistar.
To serve Two Years.
— Charles E. Smith, Uselma C. Smith, John Cadwalader, WilHam Sellers.
To serve One Year.
— Charles Schaeffer, M. D. , Dr. C. Newlin Pierce, Theodore D. Rand and Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D.
