NEW SPECIES AND VARIETIES OF MOLLUSKS FROM MIAMI.
FLORIDA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Bifidaria rhoadsi n.
sp. figs.
1 aud 2.
Shell rimate very minute cyliudrical blunt at the ends especially above glossy brown somewhat translucent  obliquely delicately striated.
Whorls nearly five the third and fourth extremely convex the last less so somewhat compressed laterall' behind the lip marked there with a slight furrow extending from the lipedge to about the position of the upper palatal lamella.
Aperture rounded truncate above obstructed by five teeth or lamellre  two upon the parietal wall one slightly connected with the right termination of the lip the other more deeply placed  columellar lamella strong spirally entering outer lip with two short lamellse.
Peristome broadly expanded the outer lip somewhat incurved about the middle.
Alt.
1.92 diam.
0.92 mm.
Miami Dade coimty Florida.
Collected by S. N. and M. C. Rhoads February 1899.
This very minute species is somewhat allied to certain forms of Mexico Xew Mexico and Arizona remarkable for the partial or complete separation of the two parietal lamellse which in the ordinary Bificlarke such as conirada rupicola or armifera are united to form a single bifid lamella.
The disposition of the lamellae is best shown by fig.
2 the shell being viewed obliquely from the base.
In this separation of the two parietal folds B. rhoadd somewhat resembles B. ashmuni B. dalliana and B. jyrototyims but in none but the first of these is the separation so complete.
B. ashmuni however has the folds stronger and the latter part of the last whorl contracted as in B. contmcta.
B. dalliana is a whitish species with the parietal folds distinctly united and a basal denticle developed while B. jrrototypus is a larger form with smaller and united parietal folds.
In having the parietal folds quite separated B. roac.stresemles several east Asian representatives of Bifidaria which are more primitive than most of the American species.
The figures are from camera lucida drawings.
Strobilops hubbardi stevensoni n. var.
Shell similar to S. hubbardi A. D. Brown but darker smoother more widely umbilicated and constantly with three lamellae within the basal wall.
Dark reddish chestnut very glossy sculptured with very fine striae above the base smoother with microscopic spirals.
Whorls 4 quite convex the last well rounded at the periphery which is above the middle umbilicus wide the latter third of the last whorl deviating tangeutially somewhat as in many Polygyras.
Through the base at the last fourth of the bodywhorl may be seen three lamellee the outermost below the periphery rather long and somewhat oblique the others shorter.
Parietal wall showing one strong emerging lamella above and a much weaker one below the latter emerging only in fully mature shells both of them running inward about onethiixl of a whorl.
Aperture broadly lunateoval oblique with whitish expanded and subrefiexed lip.
Miami Florida.
This form differs from S. hubbardi chiefly in its wider umbilicus and smoother surface though the darker color and smaller number of lamellee visible through the base are further distinguishing features Nlr.
Webster Nautilus vii pp.
84 94 has shown hubbardi to vary in the number of lamellaj.
At Mr. Rhoad's request it is named in honor of Mr. James Stevenson an energetic naturalist of Miami Florida.
Glandina truncata minor n. var.
Similar to the typical form but constantly much smaller.
Whorls 5f .
Alt.
31 diam.
13 longest axis of aperture 18 mm.
Alt.
32 diam.
13 longest axis of aperture 17 mm.
Alt.
30 diam.
11 longest axis of aperture 16 mm.
Miami type locality and Lemon City Dade county Florida.
Very large series collected by Mr. Rhoads as well as the specimens taken by myself are constantly far smaller than the typical form although they occur in a region where the country rock is limestone.
I found only the typical G. truncata at Palm Beach.
The small variety seems to be confined to ihe calcareous reirion in the extreme South.
September 5.
Mr Charles Morris iu the Chair.
Seven persons present.
September 12.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Twelve persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of Brazil.
No.
7.
Eumenidse by William J.
Fox  Notes on the Geology of Southeastern Pennsylvania y Theodore D. Rand.
September 19.
Mr. Charles Morris in the' Chair.
Eight persons present September 26.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D.  in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
The death of Dr Adolf Ernst a correspondent was announced Charles B Penrose MD. and Carl V Yischer M.D were elected members.
The following was ordered to be printed 
