PARALLELISMS IN STRUCTURE BETWEEN CERTAIN GENERA OF ODONATA FROM THE OLD AND THE NEW WORLDS.
BY PHILIP P. 'ALVERT PH.D.
The African genus Pseudomacromia Kirby has been compared by Dr. Karsch with the neotropical Macrothemis Hageu.
In the identification of the species of P'seudomacromia P. Donaldsoni n. sp.
 described in the preceding paper I have studied the other species of this genus as well as those of the genera Zygonyx Selys and Schizonyx Karsch chiefly with the view of learning to what extent these three Old World groups parallel in their structure the New World Macrothemii and its allies.
As a basis for this comparison I have used a recent paperin which I have shown that the five American genera Dythemis Paltothemis Scapanea Brechmorhocja and Macrothemis form a group of the subfamily Libel luliure the chief pecuUarity of which is  the modification of the armature of the second and third femora in the males and of the tarsal nails in both sexes the details of the modification being characteristic for each genus Dythemis being the least modified Macrothemis the most modified of the five.
The reason for the comparison of Schizonyx Pseudomacromia and Zygonyx with Macrothemis etc. is that they show similar modification of the femoral armature and of the tarsal nails.
The following species are referred to these three genera respectively  To Schizonyx Karsch luctifera Selys type of the genus  To Pseudomacromia Kirby torrida Kirby type of the genus Donaldsoni Calvert hova Rambur speciosa Karsch and pretiosa Karsch f 1 Eatomologiscbe Nacbrichten xvii p. 73 1891  Berlin Eat.
Zeits. xxxviii.
p 21 1893.
 The Odonate Genus MacrotJiemis and its Allies.
Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. xxviii pp.
301332 2 pis. July 1898.
3 Speciosa and pretiosa described from male and female respectivelj are perhaps one and the same species for Mr. McLachlan writes me under date of March 3 1899   I come round to the opinion that these are probably To 2'gonyx Selys ida Selys type of the genus and iris Selys.
In order that the structure of these species may be compared most readily with that of their American analogues the following tabular form used on pages 303 and 304 of my Macrotheynis paper is also employed here   5 9 of onespfcies but the spining of the legs is considerably different.
A difference in the same parts of the two sexes is found in Macrotliemis.
Ps.
luxuriosa Karscb was later stated by him to be a synonym of Zygonyx ida Selys Ent.
Nach. xxi p. 203.
Tyriohapta Kirby placed by its author Trans.
Zool.
Sec.
Lond. xii p. 262 next to Jfacrothemis has I believe nothing to do with the genera here considered.
248 1899.
S Isb .
N' llA m IS 3 t a 'd O 1 c 1   5 3 a    g 2 a h aj 11 t 1 i 1 c s 1   s o 1 1 '3 a 1 1 r ii o  lis o  fl S3t 1.
Si 3 ft bill 5   a1 ft i u  aj 11  1 1 11 e k 01 E S O .
 tc C w    a .  U r3 fc4 111 i llll Itl  cs 3 a g  5S iS 5l8 .
C3 
n'l 0.73 'e O     go a a   5 Cm S t   g.ft t O   a e k il S5  a a 11 si re w o 1ltl 'O o o S  2 8  J ' W s a i r c3 1 n n  a c3 S 'i  a  
5H 3 Eh S  i o a y  CO1899.
249 'C r TS 2 S  ID oj 5 O 1 V H eg S c   . 1 'C   r  1 .
13 1 p. C r  a O io     Si 5 CO 7J H  1  M  a o a Ci 1   E .1 5 1 1 1 CO i 2  1 t a  3 g 1 C O a C o 1 p 1 CO .s j c o c  a  o j j r 3 'rt CO .
 a   S 05    1 4 1 5 CO 1 C 1 02   fl o V a CO  .
 c . 1 a O u i 1 g 1 o  a 0 4 s a  a   TS   OJ 0 c3 a o 3 1 O  1 CO H H 'S .
OJ   Ta a 1 fid i1   5   a SI'.
oj D  o o  1 H  1 m  5 fc S 5  f CO H 5.
Nodal sector at its middle.
3.
Number of rows of cells in the mifklle of the held between the snbnodal sector and thesupplementary sector next below.
a a  '0 a Is a   a2 1 .
c3 1 LO.
Discoidal triangle of hind wings.
1.
Internal triangle of Iront Avings.
2.
I'osttriangu05 11 So.2 JE.2  .
g cs 'ar  ' M S a 'bcj cs   o K g g Bemarks on the ptrceding table  Characters 14 and 15 which have no corresxnding entries in the table in the Maerothemis paper quoted show some differences of these species from the  Common characters of the Genera Dythemis etc. listed on p. 301 I.e.
Ill all other respects that list of Common Characters is to be understood to apply to the species here tabulated although occasional individual variations exist.
Thus I noted that the last antenodal on one front wing of one female Z. ida was continued to the median vein Baron de Selys has a similar note for Z. iris Mr. Kirby mentions the existence of one hypertrigonal supratri angular vein in one wing of one male Pseudomacromia torrida.
ScMzonyx.
The data given for S. luctifera in the table are based on personal examination at various times of seven males two females.
9 is crossed in one wing of two males 11 is 12celled in three males 12 sometimes begins with three cells or is interrupted by three cells 13 in some begins Avith three cells.
For bibliography of luctifera see Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila. 1898 p. 146.
Schizonyx differs from Pseudomacromia and Zygonyx not only in some of the characters tabulated but also in having a slight enlargement on the posterior margin of the eye such as is found in the Corduliure and in its pterostigma being shorter on the hind wings than on the fi'ont wings Pseudomacromia torrida Kirby.
The data given in the table and those which follow on variations are derived entirely from JNIr.
Kirby' s descriptions and figure Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
Loud. xii p. 262 299 840 pi.
lii f. 7.
As Ps.
Donaldsoni so closely resembles torrida in other respects it will probably be found that the few data lacking for torrida are as in Donaldsoni.
As to the variations of torrida  8. two crossveins in one wing out of twentyfour wings 10. crossed in two wings out of twelve 11. fourcelled in three wings out of twelve.
Pseudomacromia hova.
Lihellula hova Rambur Nevr. p. 92 1842 doubtfully referred to Onychothemis by Mr. Kirby Cat.
Odon. p. 24 1890 was placed with Pseudomacromia by Dr. Karsch Berl.
Ent.
Zeit. xxxiii p. 369 1890 xxviii p. 21 1893.
 These numbers refer to the numbered characters of the table.
I examined Rambur's type now in the University Museum Oxford England September 3 1896 and made some notes upon its venation some of which are incorporated in the above table while the others follow here Front wings with 10 right 11 left antenodals the last one not continued to the median vein 7 postnodals.
Hind wings with 7 antenodals 8 postnodals inner basal side of the triangle a little nearer than the arculus with which if produced it would form a small angle two or three posttriangular rows rather irregular and not symmetrically developed on right and left wings.
Total length of body 47 mm. abdomen 32 front wing 38 pterostigma 3.5.
The data given for hova iji the table are based on the type male and on a male from NossiBe INIadagascar coast given me by Baron de SelysLongchamps.
Pseudomacromia speciosa rj and pretiosa Q.
The data given for characters 3 613 are drawn from Dr. Karsch's and Mr. McLachlan's descriptions and figure Ent.
Nach. xvii pp.
73 74 taf.
ii 1891 I'd 1
 Ent.
Mo.
Mag.
2 ii p. Ill 1891 2 d 19.
For Nos.
13 5 and 6 I am also indebted to a letter from INIr.
McLachlan in which he expresses his opinion already quoted that these two nominal species are reaUy one.
Variations of speciosa 8.
Of the three males known one has two submedian crossveins in both hind wings McLachlan .
c. .
10.
Dr. Karsch mentions that it is free on the left wing of the male he examined.
Variations of liretiosa  6.
Mr. McLachlan in his letter ivrites  one or two asymmetrical double cellules in the posterior wings.
8.
Dr. Karsch mentions two on the left front wing of his type Mr. McLachlan three on the right hind wing of his specimen.
The species of Pseudomacromia fall into two groups as regards the tarsal nails one see the table character No.
3 comprising torrida and Donaldsoni the other hova and speciosa with pretiosa as 9 .
Hova differs from speciosa in character No.
2 and perhaps also in its' superior appendages  munis en dessous et un peu lateralement ii I'endroit de leur epaisseur d'une pointe trfescourte Rambur a point easily seen in the male I possess.
Ps.
Donaldsoni lacks this  point and its presence is not mentioned fof speciosa.
It may perhaps be questioned whether all five of these species are congeneric but until a study is made of the male genitalia of torrida and of sjjeciosa it will be advisable to retain them as they here stand.
Zygonyx ida Selys.
The data for characters 17 are based on personal examination of a male and a female from Java by Herr Fruhstorfer given me at the Konigliche Museum fiir Naturkunde at Berlin and a female from Trong Lower Siam by Dr. VV.
L. Abbott in the U. S. National Museum.
For Nos.
813 the descriptions of Baron de Self's Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. xxxv CR. p. ccxxviii 1891 13 d 5 9 and Dr. Karsch Berl.Ent.
Zeit. xxviii p. 21 1893 9 d 4 9  Ent.
Nach. xxi p. 203 1895 are also available.
Variations 3.
Distinctly shorter on the second tarsi only of the Siamese female.
6.
Two double cells in one front wing of the male and of one front wing of one female one double cell in all the wings of the other female.
7.
A little nearer in three out of the twelve wings.
8.
One in one front wing of one male.
9.
Crossed in three females Selys.
10.
Crossed in seven males five females free in six males Selys  in some free in some asymmetrically or symmetrically crossed Karsch.
11.
The statement in the table is from de Selys I.e.
 I find it onecelled in one wing of one male and of one female.
Zygonyx iris Selys.
The statements in the table are all drawn from Baron de Selys' description I.e. p. ccxxxi.
Variations 3. 
Asymetriquemeut un peu plus courte a I'un des tarses Selys.
CONCLUSIONS Owing to the small number of individuals of these species which it was possible to examine I have thought it undesirable to calculate the percentages of variations as was done for Macrothemis.
When the exclusively American Dythemis PaUothenm Brechmorhoga Scapmiea and 3facrothemis are compared with Schizonyx ' I was in error when I stated by implication Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. xxviii.
p. 303 that the nodal sector of Scapaica is invariably not Avaved.
In some individuals it is waved as Mr. McLachlan has pointed out to me by letter but I am mt able to say which of these two conditions is the predominant one owing to inability to examine a long series of specimens.
Pseudomaeromia aud Zijgomjx genera confined to the Old World it is evident that in spite of the resemblance in many peculiarities no comlete parallelisms in structure exist.
Thus Macrothemis the most specialized of the former group agrees with Zygonyx ida in characters numbered 3 6 9 12 and 13 but differs from Z. ida in Nos.
2 10 14 and 15 it agrees with Pseudomaeromia speciosa pretiosa 9  in Nos.
2 3 6 and 1 4 but differs therefrom in Nos.
9 10 12 and 13 it agrees with Ps.
hova in Nos.
3 6 10 and 14 but differs therefrom in Nos.
2 9 and 12.
Similar results follow a comparison of the other genera.
Dr. Karsch has pointed out a fui'ther analogy between Pseudomaeromia and Macrothemis  the females have a strong tendency to colored wings the males to hyahne wings although in the Libellulinse as in other insects it is usually the reverse.
As regards climatic distribution both the American and the Old World genera are inhabitants of the tropical and subtropical zones the northern and the .southern boundaries of the latter being formed by the annual isotherms of 20 C. The one exception to this statement appears to be a male from Chile referred to variety typographa of Macrothemis inequiunguis.''
I believe that we do not yet know enough of the relationships of the Libellulinse to enable one to form an opinion on this question  Have the peculiar forms of the tarsal nails and of the femoral armatures been independently acquired by these New World and these Old World genera or are they inheritances from a common ancestor 
Of the physiological significance of these structures we know absolutely nothing and we await the observations of some naturalist on the living insects to supply us with such information.
 Ent.
Nach. xvii p. 73 1891. '
Proc Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. xxviii p. 319.
WEST AMERICAN ETJLIMID.
BY EDWARD G. VANATTA.
Eulima lowei n. sp.
K. XI figs.
 10.
Shell .mall smooth shiniug white one or two median whorls pink tinted from the animal dried within opaque spire bending forward the outline nearly straight in front convex behind.
In the face view the shell appears straight.
Apex decollated and .small.
Suture impressed slightly ascending toward the aperture.
Ten whorls remaining the last four each having an impressed varix near the right side.
Whorls of the spire a little convex body whorl slightly and very obtusely angular at the periphery rather flattened above and below this angulation base sloping slightly convex.
Aperture trapezoidalovate outer lip thickened sharp reversed sigmoid in profile inner lip angular at the junction of the columella and parietal wall.
Columella heavy concave  parietal wall with a thin callus convex.
Alt.
6 85 diam.
2.66 length of aperture 2.09 breadth of aperture 1.33 mm.
Long Beach California.
Mr. H. N. Lowe.
Type in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences No.
57262 A compact species resembling E. bistorta but differs in being bent forward only not laterally distorted also in having four varices instead of three and in the stouter more conic form.
It differs from E. thersites Cpr.
in having more whorls and being bent forward and not toward the right.
Eulima bistorta  fPPIXI fig.s.
7 8.
Shell small smooth shining opaque bluish white apex yellow tinted spire bending forward and toward the right the outline nearly straight on the right side convex on the left front outHne nearly straight rear outline convex.
Apex decollated small.
Suture impressed slighlly ascending toward Ihe aperture.
About nine and onehalf whorls remaining of which each of the last three has an impressed varix thickened behind on the right side.
Whorls of the spire convex the body whorl is rather cylindrical and much bent to the right and forward giving the penultimate whorl a swollen appearance.
Aperture irregularly oval outer lip sharp thickened bow shaped in profile columella and parietal walls forming a concave arch parietal callus nearly straight thin.
Alt.
5.9 diam.
2.16 length of aperture 1.9 breadth of apert.
1.2 mm.
Monterey California  on a starfish.
Type in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences No.
65881.
This species differs from E. thersites Cpr. of which I have not seen a specimen in being narrower having more whorls a longer body whorl and in having varices.
It differs from E. loivei n. sp in having three instead of four varices and in being bent forward and also to the right and in having a more cylindrical body whorl.
Eulima compacta Cpr.
PI.
XI figs.
11 12.
Shell small stout smooth shining pinkish white opaque the outline of the spire straight conical.
Apex decollated of moderate diameter.
Sutures linear not ascending toward the aperture.
About six and onehalf whorls remaining whorls of the spire flat the body whorl oval.
No varices.
Aperture ovate outer lij sharp not thickened in profile it is nearly straight to the periphery then bent backward.
Columella rounded slightly concave parietal wall a Httle convex forming a slight obtuse angle with the columella parietal callus moderate Alt.
6.7 diam 2.45 length of aperture 2.27. bieadth 1.27 mm.
Pt Abreogos Lower California H Hemphill.
The specimen figured is in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences No.
57263.
This species may be easily distinguished by its stout straight  Carpenter's diagnosis of this species is translated as follows ''Shell small very short whitish arcuate very much distorted right margin of the spire nearly straight left strongly excurved  nuclear whorls decollated whorls remaining 6 smooth nearly flat the suture distinct base strongly arched aperture suboval produced toward the right peritreme continuous heavily calloused lip sinuous. 
Long .21 long spir.
13 lat.
.09  5 25 3.25 2.25 mm.
 div.
40.
Sta.
Barbara Jewett.
Preeminent for aberration among the distorted EulimidiE.
Ann Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 3d Ser. xv 1865 p. 396. conical form and the simple curvature of the outer lip.'
The specimen figured from Lower California seems to fulfil the requirements of Carpenter's too brief description.
Eulima randolphi n. sp.
PI.
XI figs.
13 14.
Shell smooth rather slender shining bluish white when empty but when the animal is dried in the spire is orange colored above pink in the middle with sometimes a slight yellowish band on the body whorl  opaque  outlines of the spire straight conical.
Apex blunt rounded of moderate size suture impressed no varices.
Seven or eight whorls the body whorl ovate whorls of the spire a little convex.
Aperture ovate outer lip sloping to the right nearly straight in profile it is moderately arched forward below and sometimes retracted very slightly above.
Columella slender concave below convex above forming an angle with the convex parietal wall parietal callus very thin.
Alt.
6 diam.
2.3 length of aperture 2.1 breadth 11 diam.
of apex .3 mm.
Unalaska Alaska under stones P. B. Randolph.
The type is in the collection of the Academy of Xatural Sciences No.
73729.
This is the species mentioned by Mr. Randolph in the Nautilus for February 1899 p. 112 as being very plentiful under stones.
It is a rather slender species distinguished from E. micans Cpr.
by its smaller size more impressed sutures straighter profile of the outer lip and the blunter apex.
It is distinguished from E. rutila by its blunter apex fewer whorls stouter form in being oaque and having the sutures more impressed.
It also lacks any trace of varices.
Eulima micans  Cpr.
Reeve.
PI.
XI figs i 2.
U. micans Cpr. Reeve Concb.
Icon. Vol.
xv Eulima pi.
iv sp.
33 Dec 1865.
This is the largest California species of Eulima.
It is generally of a bluish white color below and lead colored above.
The apex is often orange tinted is quite sharp and seldom decollated.
Carpenter has decribed ''Ealitna 
var.
com pacta from San Pedro a3 similar to young E. micanis but mucb less terete margins of the spire little excurved apex lost seven whorls remaining base and aperture elongated the lip little sinuated.
It measures .25 X .09 inch  6.25 X 2.25 mm.
 with the spire .15 long  3.75 mm..
The divergence 22.
Proc.
Cat.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Vol.
iii 1866.
The sutures are linear.
Whorls about thirteen or fourteen.
The lip is concave above and convex below.
There are several very fine impressed lines indicating former lips irregular in position either on the right or left side or on both.
Keeve's figure being small and poor I have given a camera drawing of a specimen from San Pedro Bay No.
72674 of the Academy's collection.
Carpenter reports this species from Puget Sound Vancouver Cataline Island 3040 fms.
 Sta.
Barbara and San Diego.
The specimen figured measures alt.
11.4 diam.
3.2 length of aperture 3.2 breadth 1.9 mm.
Eulima rutila Cpr.
PL XI figs.
5 6.
Similar to E. mieans but smaller more slender and with five very fine varices three on the right and two on the left side.
The specimen figured is from San Diego No.
57264 of the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences and measures alt.
6.41 diam.
1.83 length of aperture 1.91 breadth .83 mm.
The Academy has also one tray of this species from Scammon's Lagoon Lower California.
Carpenter thus describes Eulima 
var. 
rutila Cpr.
 Shell similar to young E. mieans but more terete highly polished rosy and livid tinted nuclear whorls as in E. mieans  following whorls 10 elongate very slender base and aperture greatly prolonged columella more twisted lip very sinuous a callus running backward above the suture lip narrow.
Long.
26 long spir.l9 lat .07 6.5 4.75 175 mm.
 div.
20.
Monterey Cooper Proe.
Cal.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. 1866 p.
221.
A NEW AUSTRALIAN EULIMA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The group Lambertia reckoned by Try on and Fischer a subgenus of Eidima was instituted by Souverbie for a peculiar pupiform Eulimid with mucronate apex from New Caledonia.
Only one species has been described so far as I know but in a sending of shells from Port Stephens N. S. W. from Dr. J. C. Cox another form referable to the same group occurred.
As the name Lambertia had already been used in zoology when Souverbie wrote by RobineauDesvoidy in Diptera 1863 I would propose the name Hypermastus for the species described below the new group probably including Souverbie' s New Caledonian form also.
It is clearly distinct from Mucronalia.
Eulima Hypermastus Coxi n. sp.
PL XI figs.
3 4.
Shell small pupiformcylindrical glossy translucent white with an opaquewhite band midway between the sutures spreading downward spire convexly tapering slightly so for the greater part of its length but more suddenly above leaving the initial whorl projecting like a mucro or teat which is tilted or oblique.
Whorls five exclusive of the apical mucro not in the least impressed at the sutures the suture slightly ascending and then deflexed at the aperture base tapering.
Aperture semioval acuminate above peristome bending forward a little below somewhat inflexed above columella concave passing without angle into the parietal margin which bears a thin callus.
Length 4 greatest diameter 1.43 length of aperture 1.4 mm.
 diameter of apical  button  .15 mm.
Port Stephens New South Wales Australia collected by Dr. J. C. Cox.
Type is No.
71306 coll.
A. N. S. P. The general contour differs considerably from that of Lambertia Montrouzieri Souv. which is moreover a far larger species.
The surface is unbroken by varices and the white line running midway of the whorls looks deceptively like the suture.
Mr. Charles Hedley the malacologist of the Australian Museum tells me that he knows of no description of an Australian Eulima resembling this one.
I am indebted to Mr. Vanatta for camera hicida drawings which show the form of the shell better than any description.
SOME NOTES ON COCCID.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL.
The following paper is the result of some work done in the Division of Entomology Department of Agriculture while on a brief visit in the spring of 1899 I am greatly indebted to Dr. Howard and his staff for the facilities and assistance kindly given me.
LLAVEIA Sign.
Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France 1875 p. 370.
Ortonia Sign. Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France 1875 p. 367 not Ortonia Wood 1869  nor Ortonia Nich. 1873.
Protortonia Twns. Jn.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc 1898 p. 169.
These are all one genus the species of Avhich when adult have normally 11jointed antennre.
I believe it AviU yet be necessary to sink Llaveia as a' synonym of Monophlehus  especially since Herrera La Naiuraleza 1884 says the cT of Llaveia axin has eight  cerdas terminales  on the abdomen which I suppose to be the filiform processes of the cf Monophlehus.
Mounts made by Mr Pergande from topotypes of Ortonia mexicanorum and primitiva show 11 segmented antennae.
The locality of mexicanorum is Mixcoac not  Misebac.
Duges described the antennte of the 
Llaveia axin as 10segmented but Herrera declares there are 11 segments.
I have only seen the third stage 9 segmented and larva.
The following table will separate the adults of Llaveia  Size very large length 15 mm.
or over 1 Smaller length of adult 9 cleared and mounted 7 mm .
.
.3 1.
Pubescence scanty length 1518 mm.
 antennas short segments broader than long except the last Ljlaveia bouvari Sign .
Pubescence abundant  length 2325 mm 2 2.
Legs and antennre reddish Mexico.
.
Llaveia axin Llave.
Ecuador  separated by no tangible characters from the last so far as known  perhaps identical with it.
LJaveia uhleri Sign..
3.
Skin very thickly covered with short hairs antennae long none of the segments unless the first twice as broad as long those after the sixth conspicuously longer than broad eleventh narrow cylindrical.
192 ij.
long.
Llaveia primitiva Twns.
.
Skin with very many round glands but hairs very minute sparse scarcely noticeable autennse shorter the first 8 segments twice as broad as long 9 and 10 considerably broader than long 11 oval .
.
.
Llaveia mexicanoruin CkW..
The antennpe and legs of primitiva and mexieanormn are very dark sepia brown even in the immature stage this is very different from the clear ferruginous of axin.
The antennae of the third stage of axin are of the type of mexieanormn but the skin is very hairy as in primitiva.
Margarodes polonicus Linn..
Porphyrophora polonica Auct.
The genus Porphyrophora Braudt is essentially the same as Margarodes the latter name having priority.
There is a good figure of both the 
and the  ' pearl ' ' of M. polonicus in Van F. Houttuyn's Natuurlyke Historie 1766 Vol.
10 pi.
Ixxxiii.
COCCUS Linn6.
Syst.
Nat. Ed.
x 1758 p. 455.
The first species mentioned is hesperidum Lecaniimi.
The last is cacti.
The other species belong to Chrysomphalus Kernies Pulvinaria Mytilasjns Chionaspis Eulecanium Ceroplastes Porphyrophora and some Dactylopiiue genus.
The Coccus cacti of Syst.
Nat ed.
x is a Monophlelid so the Coccus of Signoret is not the Linnean genus in any sense.
The first to divide Coccus L. Avas GeofFroy who used Chermes for the Lecaniinse and Diaspinaj this is not the true Chermes Ijinn. which is Psy Ha and restricted Coccus to Ihe Coccince.
Under Coccus he described three species C. adonidum etc. which is a Dactylopius C. phalaridis which is some Dactylopiid and C. ulmi etc. which is Gossyparia.
Only one of these is in the Syst.
Nat. ed.
x and that is jhalaridis which thus becomes the type of the genus.
For a description of C. phalaridis we may refer to the Fauna Suecica ed.
1761 p 266.
It is said to live at the roots of Phalaris eanariensis and to be attended by Formica rubra.
The description runs  Animal maguitudine seminis cannabis exalbidum solis pedibus parum incarnatis.
Antennae vix corporis J partem adtingunt.
Rostrum inflexum.
Anus retusa vix villosa.
This should be easily identified when collected again in Sweden  most likely it is a Bipersia.
The insect seen by Geoffioy was possibly not the same as he says it is  un peu couleur de chair.
Lichtenstein suggested that phalarldis might well be the Coccus radicumgraminis Fonsc for which he proposed the generic name Fonscolombia.
Coccus Signoret will stand as Pseudococcus Westwood not Pseudococcus Sign. which is Phenacocciis Ckll..
Coccus adonidum Gmelin.
There is no such thing as Dactylopius adonidum Linne' In the early editions of the Fauna Suecica Linnd had a Pedieulus adonidum but finding out that it was not a Pedieulus and apparently not knowing what to do with it he omitted it altogether from the Syst.
Nat. ed.
x from Avhich our nomenclature starts.
I also fail to find any trace of it in the twelfth edition but in Gmelin' s edition Coccus adonidum appears with a description.
The description however refers to a longitudinal dorsal elevated line and other characters which belong evidently to some Orthezia 
GeofFroy's  Coccus adonidum corpore roseo farinaceo alls setisque niveis is on the other hand 'nQuty o Dactylopius but his name is not a binomial.
Dactylopius adonidum must therefore disappear from our lists.
Coccus cacti Linno.
Syst.
Nat. Ed.
x 1758.
Some of the works cited by Linne e. g. Re'aumur relate to the true cochineal insect but the whole of the Linnean description pertains to a Mouophlabid
The specimens described were collected in the island of St. Eustache by Daniel Rolauder and sent alive to Upsala in 1756.
At the same time Rolauder sent a number iu alcohol to DeGeer who 3Iem. Vol.
vi p. 449 gave a full account of them with a figure.
The alcoholic specimens were yellow ochre or pale rose  Linne having seen them alive says the abdomen is purplish.
The antennse and legs are black antennae 11 segmented mouth parts present.
The shape is long oval like Llaveia or Ortonia.
Linne says nothing about any ovisac or cottony covering so it was doubtless absent.
This species seems not to be identical with anything known to modern coccidologists but it is probably a Llaveia or closely related form.
It Avill doubtless be rediscovered when looked for in the type locality.
The cochineal insect can stand as Pseudococcus co.cii Burm. Handh.
der Entom. 1839 Vol.
2 p. 72.
Burmeister's citations of literature belong to the cochineal and he ignores the Syst.
Nat ed.
x.
His description of the  agrees with the cochineal but his  with caudal setae is doubtful.
The locality is given as Mexico and it is definitely stated that it is the animal which produces the scarlet pigment.
SPHEROCOCCOPSIS u. g. Type S. influtipcn Sphmroeoccus inflatipes Maskell Trans.
N. Z.
lust. XXV p. 238.
This is Avidely separated from Sphmrococcus by the presence of welldeveloped legs in the adult   the first four small the hind pair very large.
The margin is beset Avith spines.
PHCENICOCOCCUS n. g. Type P. marlatti n. sp.
Adult .
Skin tuberculate but Avithout conspicuous glands spiracles small antennae reduced to a mere tubercle otherwise like Sphcerococcus.
The anal ring is hairless in larva and adult.
Larva with four long caudal bristles instead of only two.
No lateral or dorsal spines.
Phoenicococcus marlatti n sp.
Adult V  broad oval or plumshaped winered when alive fide Marlatt 1 to 1 mm.
long occurring packed in great numbers in little cavities about 10 or 12 mm.
long by 4 or 5 broad on the midribs of the leaves communicating with the air by a narrow longitudinal slit.
Skin transpai'ent after boiling with only a faint brown tinge its surface beset with numerous hyaline tubercles Avhich make it seem tessellate but no spines or hairs and only a very few scattered glands except laterad of the spiracles where there are numerous small round glands grouped more or less in a semicircle.
Spiracles formed as in Sphcerococcus but small.
Antennae mere minute dark protuberances.
Mouth parts well developed.
Rostral loop bent suddenly near the base.
Larva elongate more than twice as long as broad without lateral or dorsal spines anteume 6 segmented formula 6 12 35 4 6 long.
cylindrical  1 very large.
Segment 6 has two very long hairs at the end.
Interval between the antennae less than the greatest diameter of the first segment.
Candal tubercles little produced each with two bristles.
Femora much swollen legs otherwise ordinary.
Hah.
 On date palms Phcenix imported from Algeria found by Mr. C. L. Marlatt Avho made some study of it years ago.
Mr Marlatt informs me that on the living plants the slight swellings containing the insects are extremely inconspicuous and very likely to be overlooked even on close examination.
Since the above description was written P. marlaiti has been found by the WTiter in great numbers on the insides of the sheathing bases of the leaves of a date palm just imported from Algeria.
Here it is not beneath the epidermis.
Dactylopiine Genera.
After a consideration of the larval characters I am willing to recognize five genera of Dactylopiini with the legs and antennje rudimentary or absent.
It is interesting that the larvae of these forms which are so degenerate in the adult stage differ more than do the larvae of ordinary coccids  and moreover their differences are just such as separate the adults of the genera which retain their legs and antennae to the last.
The following table will separate the genera mentioned  Newly hatched larva elongate after the manner of Rhizcecns and Pergandlella antennae 6segmented 1 Newly hatched larva oval or elliptical 2 1.
Terminal antennal segment of larva oval little longer than the one before Pseudolecanium Ckll Terminal antennal segment of larva very large as long as the three before Ch.etococcus Maskell.
2 Larva with 5 segmented antennae anal ring of adult with 4 hairs Cryptococcus Dougl.
Larva with 6segmented antenna
 anal ring of adult with 6 hairs Antonina Sign.
Larva with 7 segmented antennre anal ring of adult and larva with 17 hairs Kermicus Newst.
Sphcerococcus tohionu CkW..  Bull.
4 Tech.
Ser. Div.
Ent. will stand as Pseudolecanium tokionis.
Fonscolombia radicumgraminis Fonse..
Fonscolombia graminis Licht. Ent.
Mo.
Mag. 1877 July pp34 35.
This insect described by Fonscolombe in 1834 is found in France at the roots of cereals.
The 9 has Gjointed antennje and the  is apterous.
Lichtenstein suggests that this may be the Coccus phalaridis but this is at present doubtful.
Should it be phalaridis it will belong to Coccus L. but otherwise Lichtenstein' s genus Fonscolombia is valid and has priority over Pseudochermes and Apterococcus proposed for a congeneric species.
Fonscolombia fraxini Kalt.
Riper sia Apterococcus fraxini Newst.
.
This insect was first described by Kaltenbach in J 874.
In 1895 Nitsche proposed for it the subgeneric name Pseudochermes.
Newstead when describing the insect as new used the same specific name as that of Kaltenbach.
Phenacoccus mespili.
Signoret in 1875 described this insect for the first time but called it Pseudococcus mespili Geoffroy.
The Chermes mespili serico alho of Geoffroy as well as the Coccus mespili Gmelin Syst.
Nat 1788 based upon it are manifestly referable to Pulvinaria.
Geoffroy says his insect appears not to differ from his Chermes carpini serico alho which is also a Pulvinaria.
Signoret also cite Fonscolombe' s supposed Coccus cratcegi described iu 1834 but that is also a Pulvinaria.
Signoret has suggested that the Cocem pjruni Burm.
 1849 may be Pseudococcus mespili.
The description of Burmeister is quite inadequate to demonstrate this and differs in the statement that the insect is greenish gray P. mespil Sign being reddish.
The Phenacoccus is therefore nameless but it is here proposed to use for it the name mespili which will not conflict vith Geoffroy' s name the latter pertaining to a different genus.
Phenacoccus 
farinosus Gmel..
Coccus farinosus alni DeGeer Mem  Vol.
vi 1776 p. 442 pi.
28 figs.
1720.
Coccus farinosus Gmelin Syst.
Nat. Ed.
xiii 1788 p. 2220.
This is a Dactylopiine found on the alder  clear rather reddish brown mealyfarinose eventually covering itself except the head with a cottony sac in the hind part of which the eggs are laid.
In the subadult stage it has short lateral tassels but no long caudal ones.
This should be easily recognized when found again iu Europe.
Rhizaecus 
terrestris NTewst..
Ripersia terrestris Newst. Ent.
Mo.
Mag. 1895 p. 213.
This has in common with Rhizcecm falcifer the peculiar elongate shape the 5segmented antennae the elongated mentum and the prominent caudal tubercles.
Newstead figures no eyes nor mentions them.
The terminal segment of the antenna has not the curious falciform spines observed in R. falclfer and elotl.
Rhizaecus 
mammillariae Targ.Tozz..
Dactylopius mammillarUe Targ.Tozz..
Westwoodia sp.
n.

 Targ.Tozz. Annali di Agricoltitra 1884 pp.
402 403 figs.
Found at the roots of Mammillaria.
TargioniTozzetti at first called it Dactylopius mammillarue but later left it without a specific name.
He says his material was immature but the tibia is considerably larger than the tarsus pointing to a subadult condition at least.
The insect differs from Pergandiella in any stage by the elongate mentum  in this it agrees with Rhizcecxis but it differs from that in having well developed eyes and in lacking the falciform spines on the antennae.
The antennae though 6segmented resemble more those of R.  
ferredris than typical Rhizacus or Pergandiella.
Apparently this insect Avill form a new genus.
Oudablis parietariae Licht..
BoisduvaliaimrktaruB Licht. Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
France 1881 p. cxv.
This species has been overlooked by later writers.
The c
is clear red the 
mealy white.
It is found on Parietaria diffusa.
Sugarcane Mealybugs.
 In the collection of the Division of Entomology at Washington I find mounted specimens of Dactylopius calceolarice and D. sacchari from new localities identified by Mr. T. Pergande.
While recording these I take the opportunity of giving detailed measurements not hitherto published for these species.
It will be seen that although superficially similar and having similar habits the insects are very distinct in structure.
Dactylopius calceolariae Mask.
On sugarcane Florida November 7 1898 No.
6832.
New to the U. S. Shape long oval.
Measurements in p.  Middle leg coxa 197 femur  trochauter 331 tibia 223 tarsus very short
 90 claw 30.
Anteunal segments 1 60 long and 86 broad 2 6870 long 3 3943 4 3034 5 43 6 3239 7 4347 8 96100.
The specimens were sent to the Div.
Entomology by R. E. Rose from Narcoosee Fla. Dactylopius sacchari Ckll.
On sugarcane Bayamon Porto Rico January 1899 J..
Females full of embryos.
Measurements in   Middle leg coxa 133 femur  trochanter 236 tibia 146 tarsus 73  claw 30.
Antennal segments 1 3443 long and 82 broad 2 3943 long 3 2630 4 3039 5 2630 6 3439 7 7793.
The antennae have only 7 segments.
PERGANDIELLA n. g. A Dactylopiine coccid with a long parallelsided body  antennse 8 segmented stouter and shorter than in Dadylopius  eyes present anal ring with six large bristles mentum short no projecting caudal lobes.
Type P. americana n. sp.
Includes also P. pernsii  Westivoodia perrisii Sign. 
from France.
This is identical with Weshvoodia Sign. Signoretia Kraatz and Bergrothia Kraatz but all these names are preoccupied I formerly misunderstood its generic characters and was later led thereby to place it as a synonym of Dactylopius.
It is appropriately dedicated to Mr. Theo.
Pergande who has all along maintained its validity and who discovered the type species.
Pergandiella americana n. sp.

Mr. Pergande's mount.
 Length 3f breadth 1 mm.
 eyes distinct  caudal tubercles not produced each with many small round glands and a pair of short stout spines also about 15 short hairs and one long one this last Hke the bristles of the anal ring but longer.
Skin with small round glands and scattei'ed hairs not numerous enough to form a noticeable pubescence rostral loop reaching to about midway between first and second pairs of legs  mentum broader thau long breadth 104 length 92 p. legs very sparsely hairy  hairs on tibia and tarsus very short  claws simple ordinary.
Bristles of anal ring 108 a long.
The following measurements of the legs and antennae are in v.  Antennal segments 1 52 2 4448 3 2832 4 2024 5 32 6 2224 7 2832 8 7688.
Formula 812 537 64.
Middle leg coxa 116 femur  trochanter 240 tibia 168 tarsus 84 claw 22.
Diameter of femur 72 of tibia 36.
Anterior leg tibia 140  tarsus 80.
Posterior leg  tibia 200  tarsus 92.
Larva.
 Dactylopiine  antennae 6 segmented 6 longer than 3  45 as 13 is to 10 tarsus excluding claw longer than tibia as 11 is to 10 caudal tubercles slightly produced mentum not very long length to breadth as 11 is to 10.
Hah.
 Washington D. C on ash November 4 1898 Pergande Div.
Ent. No.
8200.
Differs from P. jicriisii principally by its smaller size scarcely pubescent legs and in being arboreal whereas jaerrmi was found on grasses.
Its color is also different.
This interesting insect ought to have been published under Mr. Pergande's name as he had carefully examined it and noted its peculiarities before I saw it.
It is only after urging him to publish it without result that I now with his consent make it known.
I am permitted to supplement my description by the following extract from Mr. Pergande's notes  Found in cracks of bark on the trunk of an ash on the Agricultural Department grounds three specimens of a species of Westwoodia one of them still crawling about.
The others were infested by a hymen opterous parasite though both were still living.
The active 
was very slender about 4 mm.
long by 1 mm.
in diameter and of a brownishred color but covered with a mealy excretion Avhich gave it a grayish or moldy appearance.
The other two were in addition to the mealy substance covered by a woolly excretion which was rather sparse anteriorly but became very dense toward and around the end of the body There was also found in one of the cracks a mass of white and woolly excretion containing eggs and young larvoe of this species all of which were of a pale purplish color With the eggs were also found one minute specimen of a bright red species of Scirus and one minute species of Gamasidse of a faintly yellowish color.
They were feeding on the eggs  Pergande MS..
Gossyparia spuria Modeer.
Coccus uliiti Olivier Encycl.
Meth. Vol.
vi 1791 p. 97.
This species was well figured by Re'aumur and is the Coccus ulmi corpore fuMo serico albo of Geoffi'oy.
Geoftroy'sname is not a binomial so the proper name of the insect is that given by Modeer which was in general use before Signoret's time.
The Coccus alni Modeer 1778 is a Lecanium and has nothing to do with Gossyparia see Douglas Ent.
Mo.
Mag. September 1886 pp.
80 81.
Eriocoecus palmeri n. sp.
.
 Sac li2 mm.
long of the usual oval shape of closely Avoven pure white cottony secretion with many loose threads on the surfaces producing a kind of pubescence.
Caudal aperture quite large.
.
 Boiled in KHO does not stain the liquid.
Antennse uniformly 6 segmented with 3 longer than the subsequent segments together.
2 1 and 6 subequal in length 4 and 5 subequal and shortest.
Antennse and legs pale brown.
Dermal spines crowded and very large.
Femur rather stout tibia and tarsus long and slender tarsus somewhat longer than tibia with two long bristles on its inner side.
Claw long curved.
All the digitules filiform those of the claw extremely slender those of the tarsus extending a little beyond end of claw.
Claw with a minute denticle on the inner side jusi before the tip.
Caudal tubercles long cylindrical.
The following measurements are in p. Dermal spines 3747.
Antennal segments 2 32 3 75 4 22 5 22 6 35.
Middle leg coxa 120 femur f trochanter 180 tibia 104 tarsus 112 claw 40 Hind leg tibia 116 tarsus 120 claw 36.
Hah.
 Collected by Dr. Palmer on Carmen Island off the east coast of Lower California February 1891.
Found on Bourreria sonorce Wats. and also on Euphorbia hlepharostipula Millsp.
Types in Coll.
U. S. Dept.
Agric Div.
Ent. No.
4898.
This is the smallest American Eriocoecus but it is not so small as E. lepiospermi Maskell.
Eriococcus ericae Sign.
Finding in the collection of the Dept.
Agriculture a slide of this species from F Richter of Moutpellier I give the measurements in  of the antennse and legs.
Antennal segments 1 30 2 36 3 36 4 21 5 18 6 28.
Legs coxa 86 femur  trochanter 133 tibia 73 tarsus 109 claw 12.
Longest dermal spines about 43 v.. Asterolecaninm epidendri Bouche.
Lecaniuin epidendri Bouche Stett.
Ent.
Zeit. 1844 p. 300 not L. eipirfewcZr
 Bouche Stett.
Ent.
Zeit. 1851 p. 112.
The 9 described by Bouche is evidently our .
oncidii  it is said to be probably from the West Indies.
Bouche' s cf is perhaps some other species.
Asterolecanium rhamni Kieffer.
Bull.
See.
Ent.
France 1898 pp.
214 215 figs.
Found on Rhamnus in Algeria forming galls.
This supposed Coccid is manifestly a psyllid and Mr. Schwarz to whom I showed the description and figures immediately recognized it as a Trioza.
Asterolecanium variolosum Ratzeburg.
Asterolecanium qiiercicola Sign et Auctt.
not Lecaninm quercicola Bch..
Coccus variolosus Ratzeburg MS. Hagen Canad.
Entom. 1837 p. 60 no descr..
Lecanium qiiercus 'L.
not of Linne Altum Forstzoologie iii Insecten 1881 p. 365.
Coccus variolosus Ratzeburg Tharander Jahrbuch xx 1870 p. 187 not seen  fide Judeich and Nitsche.
Coccus quercicola ''Sign. Judeich and Nitsche Lehrbuch der Mitteleur.
Forstinsektenkunde Vol ii 1895 p. 1252 good figures.
Asterodisjis variolosus Boas Dansk Forstzoologi 189698 p. 395 fig.
Bouche described his quercicola as elevated rough and dark brown.
Whatever it may have been it was hardly the A.sferolecaniam.
The name proposed by Ratzeburg is very appropriate.
KERMES Boitard.
Manuel d'Entomologie Vol.
ii 1828 pp.
171 172.
The name Kermes had been used in a popular sense from early times but Boitard is the first author I find using it as a genus in scientific nomenclatu re.
He includes in it Kermes variegahis K. ilicis and K. reniformis as well as species of LeccDiium etc.
Mr. T. Pergaude suggests that Kermes is in reality allied to Eriococcus.
This had not occurred to me but after going over the characters with this thought in mind I am inclined to agree with him.
ilicis L.Coccus ilicis L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
x 1758 p. 455.
Linne gives no description but cites Reaumur.
The insect described and figured by Re'aumur is the globular black species later named K. hauhinii not the K. vermilio.
The latter therefore remains valid.
Kermes quercus L..
Coccus quercus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
x 1T58 p. 4.55.
Linne gives no description but cites  Re'aum.
ins.
4 t. 6 f. 14 and alia f. 8 9 10.
Reaumur's figures 14 represent Kermes renifornm of Signoret and authors which must therefore fall as a synonym of K. quercus.
The figures 8 9 10 are of a large Pulvinaria also found on oak.
Kermes quercus Newst.
MS. wnll need a different name.
The Lecanium quercus  L.  of Signoret is not the Linuean insect.
Fseudokermes armatus Ckll..
Lecanium armatum Ckll. Am.
Mag.
N.
Hist. June 1898 p. 436.
Mr. Pergande made a mount of the second stage from out of the original lot.
It is 1 mm long approximately and has the legs and antennae mere stout conical protuberances extremely small skin Avith numerous figureof8 glands anal plates large mouth parts welldeveloped.
Lecanium coiFeae Walker.
ListHomop.
Ins.
B. M. 1852 p. 1079.
This is said to have transverse ridges which suggests oleee  but it is flat and only 2 mm.
long so it must be in the second stage only and therefore may be hemisphcericum.
Tradition in Ceylon identifies it with hemisphcericum and I have used the name coffece for that insect accordingly.
Mr. Pergande however tells me he saw specimens in the Berlin Museum labelled coffece and believed to be authentic and they were olew.
On the whole the name coffece had better be dropped.
Lecanium ulmi Gmelin.
Coccus ulinl Gmel. Syst.
Nat. p. 2217 not Coccus ubni L.This is the Lecanium fasciatum Costa with transverse brown bands in the manner of L. perornatum.
It is DeGeer's Coccus ovatus albus fuseo transverse striatus ulmi figured on pi.
28 f. 7.
It is also the Chermes ulmi rotundus of Geoffroy and Olivier' s Chermes ulmi.
Olivier says he found it in Holland in May 1735.
Douglas Eat.
3fo.
Mag. September 1886 p. 79 remarks that in England are found only wholly brown scales of L. ulmi such as were also known to Signoret in France.
He queries whether the bands may not be peculiar to the immature stage but it seems probable that they are retained to the last as in L. perornatum.
In that case the English L. ulmi will require a new name being apparently a distinct species unless as Douglas suggests it may be identical with L. alni Modeer.
Lecanium liriodendri Gmel..
Coccus liriodendri Gmelin Syst.
Nat. 1788 p. 2220.
It has long been supposed that this might be identical with our L. tulipifene Cook but nobody appears to have been able to consult the description Hamburgisches Magazine xii 1753 pp.
324 quoted by Gmelin on which the specific name is based.
Fortunately I have been able to obtain the work at the Library of Congress it proves to be an article by Dr. John Hill of London relating to a Lecanium he found on the tulip tree in a plantation of American trees at Goodwood and afterwards on the same kind of tree in Burlington Gardens Chiswick England.
Not being able to make very much out of the article myself I asked Mr. Pergande to read it which he did also without any definite result.
It is plain that the insect was a Lecanium and it is perhaps probable that it was Ij.
tulipiferce but the description is so vague besides containing some apparently inaccurate statements that there can be no certainty.
It is however very desirable that some one should ascertain whether any tulip trees Ijiriodendroi are still living at the places named and if so whether they are infested by this Lecanium.
Lecanium castilloae Ckll.
I have examined a mount of the second stage prepared by Mr. Pergande from some of the original material collected by Prof. 272 Townsend ou Cadilloa at Froutera INIexico.
The margin has numerous short rather thick spines 10 p. long and 21 p. apart.
Stigmatal spines in threes two very short about 17 p the other very long 73 p.. Close to the margin on each side are five Avellmarked round glands 14 p diam. consisting of a small ring within a larger.
Antennse well developed 7segmented the segments measure thus in 1 2634 2 34 3 6064 4 7377 5 3439 6 3034 7 4351.
Anterior legs with the tibia 94 p tarsus excl.
claw 81 p width of femur 51 p. PULVINARIA.
The following measurements will assist in the determination of the species  they are all in p  Ante nn a I Segmen ts .
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 P. c u pan ice Ckll. ou akee Kingston Jamaica Ckll...
39 39 77 43 39 26 26 43 P. a u r a n t i i Ckll. on orange Tokio Japan Takihashi .. 3447 4755 6477 4751 4351 2126 26 4755 P. psidu Mask. ou coffee 
 K a i I u a Hawaii 1893 Div.
Ent...
.
39 64 111107 6064 64 3943 34 55 P. ribesm Sign.
 Lancaster England Newstead .
.
.

47 73 73 55 34 30 47 P. fl a vie a n s Mask. Murray Bridge Australia A'ofeie.. 3943 43 47 3943 3447 2126 1721 3439 P. '' camellicola on Euonymus Macon Georgia 1892 Bonn.

4351 5564 55 3034 30 26 3951 P. big el ov ice Ckll. Los Angeles CalifornaDiv.Ent..

51 60 51 43 39 30 39 Legs of the same Specimens.
Length of Tibia.

Length Breadth of Tarsus 1 f S.il excl.claw.j f Femur.
P. cupanioe anterior leg P. aurantii anterior leg P. psidii anterior leg P. ribcsicB anterior leg P. ' ' ctimellirola ' ' 172 155 258 180 163 193 94 86 107 103 82 124 68 73 90 69 73 90 P. bifjdovicB middle leg P. cnpanice aurantii and jysidii are superficially similar and are liable to be confused.
In cujmnice and jdii the marginal spines are about 21 Jt long and more or less fimbriate at the ends in aurantii they are simple only those next to the spiracular incisions being slightly flattened and inclined to be fimbriate at the ends.
Ou the other hand by the antennae aurantii and ciqmniie are close together and psidii differs greatly by the long 3 as also in the very long tibia.
The marginal spines of flavicam are sharp and quite simple those of ribesice are also quite simple very slender the longer ones 43 .
The marginal spines of the  camellicola' are simple very slender 3960 n apart and 3447 fjlong.
The bigelovice has the antennae practically as in  camel icola' but the legs will distinguish it.
The species marked  camellicola  may possibly be the insect intended by Signoret but his description does not agree.
I have considered it rather a form of my P. simulans  vide Canad.
Entom. 1895 p. 258.
Aulacaspis coccois Licht..
Diaspis coccois Licht. Bull.
Soc.
Eut.
France 1882 p. xxxvi.
This is presumably the insect afterwards described by Morgan as D. teniaculatus.
The exuviae are distinct and almost central.
Chrysomphalus aonidum Linn.
Coccus aonklum L. Syst.
Nat  Ed.
x p. 455.
The description reads  Habitat in Asire arboribus sempervirentibus ut in Camellia aliisque.
Prajcedenti Jiesperidum'jm.mor 18 sed similis.
Testa orbiculata planiuscula atropurpurasceus centro f. vertice tuberculo rotundo rubro quod in senescentibus aperitur.
This seems to me to apply excellently to one thing and one only viz. C hrymmp halus ficiis Ashm.
Signoret naturally could not recognize the species because he did not have it.
It seems probable that the insect is after all a native of A.sia with C. dictyosperini  while the group of C. persece etc. is truly neotropical.
Chrysomphalus rossi Maskell.
Manila Philippine Is. on an orchid quarantined by Mr. A. Craw at San Francisco.
The material was very scanty but was examined by Mr. Marlatt and the writer and identified as rossi.
This is the first coccid record from the Philippines.
Aspidiotus acuminatus Targ.Tozz.
This species Avas omitted from my Check List.
It is a species of Hemibeilesia and so far as I can see identical with A. rcqxix Comst.
Aspidiotus euonymi Targ.Tozz.
This is also an Hemlberesia and has been referred to A. rapax.
It is however one of the A. cydonke group having four groups of circumgenital glands.
Aspidiotus saccharicaulis Zehntner.
This is an Odonuspix and hardly more than a variety of A. secrelm.
The following table will separate the three races of secretus  1 Two groups of circumgenital glands not connected above by a line of glands.
.
.
A. secretus var.
from Ceylon Green.
2 Groups of circumgenital glands connected above by a line of glands A. secretm Ckll. type from Japan.
3 Groups of circumgenital glands connected above by a median group which is three deep in the middle.
A. secretus race saccharicaulis Zehnt.
.
A new locality for A. secretus is Honolulu Hawaii on bamboo 1899 Geo.
Comp  in coll.
Div.
Ent.
Dept.
Agric.
Mytilaspis abietis Sign.
Signoret in Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
France 1882 p. clxxxiv admits that his  3fytilasjns abietis Schr.
is not Schrank's insect the Jatter being an Aspidiotu'.
He then proposes that the name abietis be retained for the Mytilaspis with himself as its author.
This must hold and the name confusus proposed by Horvath will fall as a synonym.
Mytilaspis ulmi L..
Coccus ulmi Linue Syst.
Nat. Ed.
x 1758 p. 455.
Mytilaspis pomorum Bouche et Auctt.
Linne gives no description but cites  Reaum.
ins.
4 t. 2 5. f. 57 and alia t. 7. f.
110.
Reaumur's pi.
5 figs.
57 represent the Mytilaspis of the elm which is now considered identical with that of the apple they are in fact the very figures which Geoffroy cites for his Coccus arborum linearis.
R'aumur's pi.
7 figs.
110 represent Gossyparia spuria iilmi.
Mytilaspis beckii E.Newman.
Coccus beckii E. Newman Entomologist Feb. 1869 pp.
IT 218.
Mytilaspis citricola Pack  Comst.
et Auctt.
The name beckii is based on Beck's figures and notes which are unmistakable.
Newman erroneously supposed the apple Mytilaspis to be the same.
Parlatoria proteus var.
crotonis Dougl.
Ent.
Mo.
Mag. April 1887 p. 242.
The species found so commonly on crotons described as crotonis pergaidei var. 
by the present writer appears to be the same as that of Douglas.
I had overlooked the latter' s article on the subject.
Diaspis pentagona Targ.Tozz.
Rivista di Bachicoltiira 1886 No.
11  reprhited in Bull.
Soc.
Eat.
Ital. 1887 pp.
184186. u. syn.
Diaspis amygdali Tryon.
The probability of this synonymy had occurred independently to Mr. Marlatt and the present writer an examination of Italian material of pentagona confirms it.
TargioniTozzetti's 1886 account is of a very general nature but will hold the name.
In a pamphlet published in INIilan in 1890 he gave a scientific description with figures.
There is also a description in Ball.
Soc.
Ent.
Ital. xxi 1890.
