CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE HYMENOPTERA OF BRAZIL NO.
6.A COLLECTION FROM RIO GRANDE DO SUL AND SAO PAULO.
BY WILLIAM J.
FOX.
The small collection on which the present paper is based was received for identification from the Museu Paulista of Sao Paulo Brazil and is of interest through the large number of species which are not represented in the Herbert Smith collection on which the previous papers of this series are based which would seemingly indicate that the fauna of the southeastern region of Brazil differs considerably from that of the more inland northern States Matto Grosso and Para where the Smith collection was largely made.
Unless otherwise stated the specimens were collected in Rio Grande do Sul.
The types of new species are the property of the Museu Paulista.
Elis hyalina Sauss.
Elis nigra Sauss.
Elis regina Sauss.
Elis costalis Lep.
Elis Servillii Lep.
Elis Gerstaeckeri Sauss.
Elis Lucasia Sauis.
The specimen before me agrees with Saussure's description except that it is much larger than any of his specimens it measures 45 mm.
in length.
Tiphia cayennensis Spin.
Pepsis nuda n. sp.
d'.
 Bluegreen legs bluest antennae with first two joints bluish the third to seventh or eighth fuscous the remaining joints fulvous wings black with purplish and bluish iridescence crossed by a broad yellowish white band which is separated from base of wing by a distance almost equalling its width and its outer margin is just about in the centre of anterior Aving in the hind wing this band is somewhat broader pubescence throughout dark Clypeus emarginate but not deeply frontal impression strong.
Middle segment raised somewhat down middle of upper surface with coarse irregular transverse rugae extending to but not on the sides and are weakest in the depressed portion of upper surface  the latter is scarcely separated from the posterior face or vertical part the two uniting rather evenly transverso median fold distinct short and rather high lateral teeth not strong blunt stigmatubercle obtuse rounded  horizontal surface not rugose.
Abdomen fusiform narrowest anteriorly fourth and fifth ventral segments highly polished entirely nude subgenital plate a little widened apically and truncate not keeled third submarginal cell at top somewhat broader than at base.
Length 16 mm.
Rio Grande do Sul.
One example.
Allied to and resembles P. dimidiata Fabr.
 but the abdomen lacks the ventral bristles and the wing fascia is widely separated from base of wings.
Pepsis pulchripennis Mocs.
Pepsis dimidiata Fabr.
Pepsis clirysoptera Burm.
Pepsis aurimacula Mocs.
Rio Grande do Sul and Estado do Sao Paulo.
Pepsis vitripennis Sm.
Pepsis amabilis Mocs.
Pepsis planifrons RLuc.
Pepsis pubiventris RLuc.
Pepsis discolor Tasch.
Rio Grande do Sul and Ypiranga.
Pepsis sinnis R. Luc.
Salius Cyphononyx notatipennis n. sp.
.
 About equally blue and black head black shining thorax and legs changing from blue to black in certain lights  abdomen black with blue pile on basal segments wings fuscous more or less yellowish  all the cells except median and submedian spotted with yellow costal cell and base of wing blackish apex subhyaline hind wings yellow darker apically head sparsely punctured with four depressed aieas one at each side of front and another between ocelli and eyes antennae short and thick clypeus transverse coarsely punctured anteriorly subtruncate bearing a few long black hairs pronotum almost square anteriorly middle segment subtruncate in shape lather square coarsely striated the upper surface depressed medially and more broadly near sides the posterolateral angles rather prominent the pile on first two dorsal segments gives them a striated appearance dorsals 35 very sparsely punctured  second ventral distinctly impressed transversely near base  ventral segments sparsely and last dorsal densely with black hairs.
Length 22 mm.
One specimen.
Allied to S. brevicornis Tasch.
Salius Priocnemis carinatus Lep.
.
 Bluish flagellum mandibles and labrum lack middle segment purplish wings black with bluish and purplish reflections the nervures ferruginous  clypeus incurved medially first joint of flagellum about as long as second and twothirds of third joints  eyes slightly converging above the space between them at top slightly exceeding length of first flagellar joint pronotum strongly swollen on each side middle segment coar.sely striated medially impressed above and with a large tubercle just behind each stigma second ventral segment with two transverse widely separated tubercles which are connected by a smooth fold in the form of an arch between these tubercles the segment is depressed abdomen beneath and apically with long black hairs.
Length 2526 mm.
iji.
 First joint of flagellum a little longer than second middle segment above bearing three longitudinal deep furrows the two outer diverging somewhat abdomen beneath with large spai'se punctures the tubercles obtuse or absent the second ventral bearing a strongly sinuous fold subgenital plate elongate obtusely truncate punctate and indistinctly impressed down the middle.
Length 22 mm.
Numerous specimens.
Resembles bituberculatus Guerin but the color is a lighter blue and the flagellum is entirely black.
The subgenital plate in bitubercidatm is a broad apically rounded area raised medially.
Salius Priocnemis apicipennis n. sp.
cJ.
 Bluish changing to black in certain lights middle segment mandibles aud first two joints of flagellum black flagellum joints 3 and following fulvous the two apical joints fuscous wings black with purplish reflection apex of anteriors whitish veins black clypeus incurved scutellum high middle segment coarsely striated with two approximate parallel raised lines on carina extending down middle of upper surface to posterior face where they suddenly diverge and extend beyond its middle no tubercle behind stigma second segment constricted at base the ventral surface not tuberculate subgenital plate large broad rounded at apex covered with short black hairs.
Length 22 mm.
Ypiranga.
One specimen.
Salius Priocnemis tinctipennis n. sp.
.
 Bluish Avith blackish or purplish reflections in lights middle segment purplish mouth and first two joints of flagellum black remaining joints fulvous anterior wings fuscoferruginous  black at extreme base then ferruginous  yellow predominating as far as marginal cell then fuscous with the apex whitish hind wings yellow margined apically and posteriorly with fuscous clypeus incurved bearing long black hair eyes distinctly converging above the space between them at vertex a little greater than the length of second joint of flagellum the latter joint not twothirds as loug as the first joint pronotum strongly swollen laterally scutellum bearing loug black erect hairs middle segment coarsely striated transversely not strongly impressed medially not tuberculate second ventral with two small widely separated transverse tubercles which slope toward base of segment.
Length 2328 mm.
Three specimens.
This species reminds one of a Pepsis especially Pepsis discolor Tasch.
Salius Priocnemis Iheringii n. sp.
.
 Black including fii'st two and base of third joints of antennse remainder of antenuce fulvous wings fujvous reddish medially black at extreme base clypeus with large shallow punc tures anteriorly its fore margin subtruncate not or but slightly incurved middle segment coarsely striated second abdominal segment with shallow sparse punctures basally the ventral surface not tuberculate but with two flat raised areas separated by a depression.
Length 2223 mm.
Rio Grande do Sul and Estado do Sao Paulo.
Three specimens.
Close to S. dumosus Lep.
 but larger the clypeus not or scarcely incurved and second ventral not tuberculate.
Salius Priocnemis flavipennis Lep.
Salius Priocnemis carinatus Lep.
Rio Grande do Sul and Estado do Sao Paulo.
Salius Priocnemis tomentosus Tasch.
Ypiranga.
Salius Priocnemis dumosus Lep.
Rio Graude do Sul and Estado do Sao Paulo.
Pompilus erubescens Tasch.
Pompilus bituberculatus Spin.
 vnlpes D. T..
The Pompilus bituberculatus of Guerin belongs to the genus Salius.
Therefore the changing of the name of Spinola's Pompilus bituberculatus by Dalla Torre is unnecessary and not to be followed Pompilus argenteus Ta8ch.
Ypiranga.
Pompilus areatus Tasch.
Pompilus amethystinus Fabr.
Ypiranga.
Pompilus Hempelii n. sp.
9.
 Black wings pale yellow with a pale fuscous apical band head convex in front impressed clypeus very short transverse subtruncate its fore margin shining antenme inserted close to base of clypeus tolerably short not as long as head and thorax the flagellum tapering but little to apex the first joint a little longer than second eyes somewhat converging above thorax narrow and elongate pronotum indistinctly subangulate posteriorly middle segment not impressed above very indistinctly so posteriorly  tibise spinose but the hind pair feebly so  no tarsal comb  claws armed with a tooth within near base abdomen with black hairs at apex  cubital vein of hind wings originating beyond apex of submediau cell first recurrent vein received by second submarginal in about middle  second recurrent vein sinuous received by third submargiual before middle the latter cell narrowed aljout onehalf above.
Length 11 mm.
Ypiranga August 16 A Hempel.
According to Kohl's tables of the Pompilidie this species falls into his Group 7 of the genus Pompilus.
Ammophila abbreviata Fabr.
Sceliphron fistulare Dhlb.
Spbex subhyalinus n. sp.
9.
 Black head and thorax with black pubescence no silvery spots wings hyaline very faintly tinged with yellow and with darker apical margin the nervures forming the submargiual and discoidal cells brownish inner eyemargins parallelclypeus very similar to that of S. fuliginosus  space between hind ocelli if anything very slightly less than that between them and eyes  scutellura flat not impressed  postscutellum impressed  middle segment almost smooth subopaque  metatarsus of fore leg bearing at least nine long spines outwardly petiole fully as long as second joint of hind tarsus  aljdomen shining nude with the exception of a few long black hairs beneath and apicglly.
Length 28 mm.
Ypiranga.
One specimen.
Related to fuliginoms and caliginosus but easily distinguished by pale wings entire scutellum etc.
Sphex caliginosus Er.
Sphex fuliginosus Plug Sphex ruficaudus Taach.
The single specimen in the collection represents a variety with dark wings  S. proxinm. Sm..
Sphex dubitatus Cress.
Sphex ingens Sm.
Sphex Chlorion hemiprasinus Sichel.
Larra americana Sauss.
Monedula surinamensis De G. Monedula signata Linn6.
Monedula magnifica Party.
Monedula punctata Fabr.
Iguape December 21.
Monedula arcuata Burm.
Tachytes scalaris Tasch.
Trypoxylon fuscipenne Fabr.
Sao Paulo.
Trypoxylon ornatum Sm.
Sao Paulo.
Cerceris basalis Sm.
Montezumia sepulchralis Sauss.
