MOLLUSCA OF THE GREAT SMOKY MOUNTAINS.
BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY.
The material recorded aud described in tliis paper was gatliered by a party of live naturalists Messrs J. H. Ferriss Bryant Walker George H. Clapp H. E. Sargent and myself who visited the mountains in July and August of 1899. Some account of the wanderings and adventures of this band has been given elsewhere aud it will suffice here to give their itinerary as briefly as may be.
From Knoxville Tenn the rendezvous travel was by wagon through Chilhowee Gap to Cade's Cove' in Blount county Tenn. a valley adjacent to the main range of the Great Smokies.
Thence with guides pack mules and camping outfit we ascended Thuudcrhead camping at  Spencer's Cabin and collecting both near the summit and at various lower levels.
Ferriss made a day's journey to Block House Mountain a peak ruuuing up to some 5500 feet nameless on the Geological Survey topographic ' All of those mentioned have contributed valuable notes and specimens toward this paper so that it really represents our joint and several observations which I have correllated and systematized.
To this end most of the smaller or more critical specimens have been generously entrusted to me for examination to the number of some six or eight thousand shells including thoe collected by myself.
It should Ije mentioned that Mr. Ferriss had previously made several vacation journeys to the Great .Smokies and Mr. Clapp was there in 189S.
The richne.s of the region in moUuscan life was tirst made kuown by Mrs. George Andrews of Knoxville although Kugel many years ago.
evidently ventured within the mountain fastnesses and Miss Law visited the outlying ridges.
 Nautilus 1900.
 A mountain valley becomes a  cove  on the tongue of the mountaineer.
Some of the  coves  are of considerable extent and nearly level  the soil is fertile and the farms productive andbeautiful.
Cade's Cove is also the name of a postolhce in the valley.
Tlie localities Sugar Cove.
Rose Cove Brannon's Rowan's.
Laurel Creek are all in Cade's Cove or subsidiary vallevs thereto.
During our stay in Cade's Cove we were indebted to Mr. Blair for numerous courtesies which are here gratefully acknowledged.
map but shown ou the Kuoxville sheet due south of Thuuderhead with which the 4 700 foot contour connects it.
From Thunderhead the trail follows the ridge along the TennesseeNorth Carolina boundary over Briar Knob an outrageous climb and Proctor's Knob to the south end of Miry Ridge.
Thence over Siler's Bald to Clingman Dome 6600 feet altitude still upon the interstate boundary.
The main collecting ground on Clingman was a few hundred feet below the summit along the north side.
This was the last camp of Messrs. Clapp Walker and myself but Mr. Ferriss and Mr. Sargent explored beyond first visiting Andrews Bald an outlier of the Clingman mass and then returning to Siler's Bald they followed the crest of the great ridge ramifying southwest to Welch Bald which reaches 5000 feet elevation.
From this peak they descended the Welch Bald Branch to Chamber's creek and down to the Little Tennessee river.
Crossing the river into Graham county N. C.  they ascended Tuskeegee creek collecting en route and on  Tuskeegee Mountain  not named on the Nantahala topographic sheet a spur of the Cheoah Mountains which projects northward between the headwaters of Tuskeegee creek and Yellow creek.
Most of the shells here came from a valley called  Ramp Cove on the Yellow creek side.
Along Yellow creek they followed the road to the Cheoah river.
From here they entered the Unaka Mountains ascending the twin peaks Hangover and Mt.
Hayo 5200 feet and Stiatton Bald 5400 feet  this peak named for Robert Stratton being locally known as  Bob's Bald.
Some collecting Avas then done in  Glen Cove nameless on the Geological Survey map but readily located as one of the heads of Slick Rock creek in Tennessee.
They then turned northward in Monroe county Tenn stopping at Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee river at Caringer Tenn. where they collected on the south side of the river finally returning across country to Cade's Cove.
 Mr. Sargent made a journey by rail to Hayesville Clay county N. C  This Unaka range mast not be confused with another socalled on some maps lying to the west of Koan Mountain.
 No ordinary atlas gives an adequate idea of the extent or complexity of this mountain region.
Recourse must be had to ihe excellent topographic maps published by the U. S. Geological Survey.
The localities mentioned ou the route described above will be found on the Kiioxville Mt.
Guyot Nantahala Murphy and Loudon sheets.
the malacological results of which have been incorporated in this list. In the region where collecting was done the country rock is mainly sandstone and a coarse gray conglomerate.
The coves are said to have a floor of limestone but it is evidently buried deeply as I noticed no exposures.
There is a good exposure of the Hazel Slate on the dizzy knifelike ridge connecting Siler's Bald and Clingman Dome.
The strata along the boundary ridge dip deeply to the south and southeast and the debris of the broken edges falling down the northern and northwestern decliNnties makes more abundant shelter for rockloving snails on this than on any other slope.
Springs can be found almost anywhere up nearly to the mountain tops and frequent I'ains or cloudmist hanging about the summits keep the ground moist and the deep moss holds water like a sponge.
Kelationships of the Great Smoky Mouxtaix Fauna.
The Appalachian mountain system is divided in the south by the broad valley of eastern Tennessee into two divisions unlike in their physical features and geological structure.
The level strata of the Western Division or Cumberland Plateau though more or less dissected by stream erosion never become so rugged as the steeply tilted strata forming the noble mountains of the Eastern Division.
Faunally the two divisions have hitherto been considered to constitute a zoogeographic unit under the title of the  Cumberland Subregion.'
The inclusion of both the Eastern and Western Divisions under one zoogeographic term would lead one to suppose a numerically important part of the characteristic species composing the fauna to be common to the whole tract  but the collector on the ground finds this to be far from the truth.
A certain number of land snails extend over the whole mountain region and far east and west of it but of those restricted to the Appalachian system we find that the Cumberland Plateau has its own set of species and the eastern mountains another.
The characteristic  It may be meotioned here that the shells Ferriss collected in 1898 and labeled Unaka Mts. 
were taken on Citico Creek in Monroe county Tenn. ' See W. G. Binney Manual American Land Shells p. 33. species those which give the mouutain regions individuality as contrasted with the lowlands are very largely different on the two sides of the great valley.
I would submit then that the Cumberland Subregion  as understood hitherto is not a faunal unit but contains two faunulge as diverse from one another as either is from the lowland fauna to the west or the east of the mountains.
Characteristic forms illustrating this diversity are as follows Eastern Division.
Western Division.
Roan Mt.
to the Great Smokies. 
Cumberland Plateau. 
Polygyra chilhoiveensis Polygyra plicata  siibpalliatu ' ' ferrissii ' ' clarlcii ' ' andreivsce ' ' tvheatleyi ' ' christyl ' ' lawoe  depilata ' ' barbigera  hirsuta altispira   pilula ' ' maxillata.
Omphalina rugeli  subplana ' ' andrewsce.
Vitrinizonites.
Zonitoides jmtuloides.
Gastrodonta lasmodon  ccelaxis ' ' andrewsce  clappi ' ' walkeri.
Pyramidula alternata costata '  bryanti.
The list could be increased but these main genera sufficiently illustrate the distinctness of the faunas.
It seems that the depres8  dorfeuilliana ' ' fatigiata ' ' troostiana ' ' tridentata complanata ' ' wetherbyi  obstrida  sargentiana ' ' doivniecma  spinosa ' ' labrosa ' ' edgariana ' ' edvardsi  stenotrema exodon.
Omphalina inornata.
Zonitoides latewnbilicatus.
Gastrodonta collisella.
Pyramidula alternata earinata  cumber landiana.
sion of the East Tennessee valley practically prevents iDtermingling of the mountain species and has doubtless been a barrier far back into Tertiary time.
Further north in the Virginias and Pennsylvania the distinction is almost obliterated  partly owing to the absence of an intervening tract so markedly differentiated physically and partly because if the northward extensions of the eastern and western divisions of the mountain system ever had special faunas they were obliterated by the severe conditions of the Ice Age far beyond the southern border of the actual ice sheet and there has not been time for the differentiation of new faunas in the North.
The Eastern Division with which we have particularly to do extending in a great ridge from northeast to southwest between Tennessee and North Carolina is cut transversely into several sections by rivers breaking through the highest ranges  the upper Nolichucky the French Broad and Little Pigeon and the Little Tennessee.
The mollusk fauna of the section above the Nolichucky is fairly well known by the researches of many naturalists on Roan Mountain and in its vicinity Mrs.
George Andrews and Mr. A. G. Wetherby having contributed most largely to our knowledge.
The Great Smokies proper as far east as Clingman and the mountains along the southern side of the Little Tennessee are now fairly known by the work of Mrs. Andrews and our party of five and especially by Ferriss' explorations though no doubt the lists of species will be largely augmented in future.
The mountain region between the Nolichucky and Clingman s Dome a distance of about seventyfive miles as the crow flies w wholly unknown malacologically so far as I know.
We may reasonably expect the forms common to Roan and the Great Smokies to occur in this intermediate tract but in 'iew of the extreme local differentiation specific and varietal in the known areas how many splendid snails never yet seen by man still lurk in their rocky shelters along these mountain tops 
Comparing the fauna of Roan Mt.
and its environs with that of 8 For the fauna of Roan I take Wetherby's papers Some Notes on American Land Shells Jouru.
Cincinnati Soc.
X. H. IV.
1881 and Natural History Notes from North Carolina.
in the same Journal XVI.
18'J3.
p. 87 and XVII 1894 pp.
69 and '209.
These articles containing the observations of an experienced naturalist give as good an idea of the fauna as could be obtained without actually working over the giound.
the Gi'eat Smokies below Clingman shows the following forms common to the two tracts exclusive of those occurring also in the Cumberland Mts.
or elsewhere  Polygyra andreivsm Vitrea sculptilis ' ' wheatleyi Zonitoides elliotti.
Vitrinizo7iites latissimus Philoimjcus wether hyl.
Omphalina subplana Special to the Roan Mountain neighborhood are Polygyra suhpalliata Gastrodonta andrewsoe  hirsuta altispira  ccelaxis Omphalina rugeli Pyramidula bryanti.
And the following forms have hitherto been found only in the Great Smokies and adjacent ranges along the Little Tennessee river  Polygyra chilhoweensis Zonitoides paiuloides  ferrissii Pyramidula alternata costata  depilata Punctum blandiaman  edwardsi magnifumosa Gastrodonta lamellidens  hirsuta piliua  tvalkeri Omphalina andrewsoe  clappi.
And also some varietal forms of various other species.
Vertical Distribution of Species.
Our data on Polygyra andrewsce show that mere altitude has little if any influence within the limits afforded by the region investigated.
Thus on the flanks of Thunderhead Mt. the shells up to fully 4000 feet do not differ in size or other characters from those of Cade's Cove at half that elevation.
At Proctor's Knob 5000 feet and Miry Ridge 45005000 feet the average size and solidity of the shells is undoubtedly somewhat greater than at the lower stations though the conditions do not diflfer much and the country rock is not greatly different.
What favorable local cause works this change is not clear.
It is only near and at the exposed mountain tops themselves that the shells suddenly diminish in size and solidity as among the scrubby beeches at the stormswept summit of Thunderhead or along the lofty ridge of Clingman from 5500 to 6500 feet elevation.
Polygyra wheatleyi also a species of wide distribution is similar to P. andrewsce in its variations.
The toothed form with wide lip occurs throughout the region except along the ridge of Clingmau where a more dehcate and toothless form replaces the ordinary one.
For the rest it varies greatly in size and without reference so far as I can see to altitude or exposure the other factors of soil and vegetation being probably more potent.
Extremely small specimens occurred in the Tuskeegee Mountains between Yellow creek and Tuskeegee creek at a small elevation and very large ones on Stratton Bald over 5 000 feet above the sea.
The only locality in which anything like racial characters are appearing however is on Clingman as mentioned above the only locality so far as I know where the forest is coniferous.
Polygyra ferrissii has been found so far only at elevations above 4000 feet on the Clingman conglomerate which crowns Miry Ridge and Clingman' s Dome though probably some of the lower stations are on the Thunderhead conglomerate lithologically the same.
An equilateral triangle with sides about seven miles long the angles at Miry Ridge Andrews Bald and Welch Bald includes all known localities though it certainly does not occur over much of the small area thus enclosed.
The researches of our party along the high ridge west from Miry Ridge and Ferriss' and Sargent's search to the south make it probable that the species has no great extension in these directions.
It remains to be seen whether it extends along the interstate boundary ridge toward Mt.
Guyot and the Big Pigeon river gap but such extension is likely.
Polygyra depilata has occurred so far only along the interstate boundary ridge from Thunderhead to Clingman's Dome reappearing south of the Little Tennessee river on Stratton Bald.
Pyramidula alternata costata has been found only along the south side of Cade's Cove.
The small Gastrodouts are probably more widely distributed than existing data indicate.
List of Species.
HELIOINID.
Helioina occulta Say.
Rowan creek Cade's Cove.
A single rather thicklipped small specimen diam.
5 mm. was taken by Ferriss and two more by Sargent.
This is further south than any previous record.
HELIOIDu.
Polygyra tridentata Say.
Practically typical specimens of this species occur in the upper Tennessee Valley in eastern Tennessee.
In the Great Smokies however a divergence occurs which I have not seen from any other locality.
The basal tooth is split into two denticles  either distinctly or obsoletely or without being bifid the tooth has a callous slope or buttress against its outer side.
This tendency to double the basal tooth evidently characterizes a mountain race but I doubt whether the race be yet firmly enough established to require recognition in nomenclature.
The localities are  Roe's Flat in Cade's Cove Ferriss and Clapp 1898 diam.
16 to 18 mm.
Brannon's Sugar Cove off Cade's Cove one specimen basal tooth very heavy.
Hannah Mt.
Ferriss 1898.
Welch Bald on the Forney Ridge diam.
ranging from slightly over 13 to nearly 18 mm.
 basal tooth nearly as simple in a few specimens as in tridentata distinctly double or buttxessed in others.
Ten specimens collected by Ferriss.
A single P. fraudulenta with typical aperture was taken with them.
P. tridentata also was taken on Welch Bald branch of Chamber's creek and on Chamber's creek down to the Little Tennessee.
South of the Little Tennessee in Graham county Ferriss took specimens on Yellow creek and Bob's Bald in both localities the basal tooth was double or calloused. 
Other characters of the mountain form of P. tridentata are the tubercular upper tooth and the flattening of the basal lip.
Another variety of tridentata from Oakdale Morgan county Clapp 1899 and Concord Knox county in the James H. Lewis collection has the apertxire of var.
complanata with very small and widely spaced teeth but is striated like typical tridentata.
Largest from Concord diam.
23 mm. alt.
10 mm smallest diam.
19 alt.
9 mm.
Largest from Oakdale diam.
20 alt.
9 mm.
 smallest diam.
19 alt.
10 mm.
 .
H. C. Polygyra fraudulenta Pilsbry.
Welch Bald Swain county N.C. One specimen diam.
13 mm.
Polygyra rugeli Shuttl.
An abundant species.
Tuckaleechee Cove at about 1200 feet elevation two rather small shells 11 mm.
diam.
Cade's Cove very abundant usually about 14 mm.
diam. the ordinary variation 12 to 15.
One umbilicated specimen taken and one slightly less than 9 mm.
diam. the smallest rugeli on record.
Ferriss took a specimen in 1898 which is distinctly carinated at the periphery this being from  Roe's Cove.
Of ten specimens collected at Brannon's Sugar Cove off Cade's Cove by Ferriss five measure 9 to 10 mm. one 10 and four 13 to 14 mm.
Some of these are among the smallest specimens of the species seen.
On Thuuderhead in the Eagle creek region N. C probably between 3500 and 4500 feet the extremes in a series collected are 11 and 15 mm.
diam. 
Quite common on Miry Ridge in 1898 probably about 4000 feet about same size as Cade's Cove specimens average.
The smallest shell of this species which I have seen is from Russellville Ala. Lewis collection 8 mm.
diam.
From Scott county Va. I have two specimens of 9 and 9 mm.
diam.
respectively.
 G.H.
C. It occurred also on Andrews Bald Welch Bald and Chamber's creek.
On the Little Tennessee river at mouth of Chamber's creek Mr. Ferriss collected small specimens 11 to 12 mm.
South of the Little Tennessee river specimens were taken on Cheoah creek and in Glen Cove in the Unakas twenty one specimens varying gradually from 10 to 14 mm.
diam.
At Tallassee ford.
Little Tennessee river in Monroe county Tenn. a dozen specimens taken by Ferriss vary from 12 to nearly 13 mm. being thus vexy uniform in size.
Polygyra cMlhoweensis Lewie.
This magnificent species is characteristic of the Gieat Smoky Mountains having been described from an outlying ridge the Chilhowee Mountain which rises some 2000 to 2500 feet  about the elevation of the slopes of Cade's Cove.
In large series collected by the party of 1899 and in those taken by Ferriss and Clapp in 1898 no intergradation with P. sayii Binn.
was observed.
P. chilhoiceensis is always larger with broader lip and more obsolete teeth or none.
P. sayil is not known to occur in the region though Wetherby has taken it at Roan Mountain.
Of many specimens taken by our party 1899 in  Sugar Cove off Cade's the largest I have seen measures 39 mm.
diam. the smallest 31 mm.
Mr. Ferriss gives 40 and 27 mm.
as the diameters of his largest and smallest specimens.
At Eagle creek N. C on Thunderhead 35 mm.
diam.
Proctor's Knob on the Tennessee North Carolina boundary between the south end of Miry Ridge and Briar Knob 33 mm.
diam.
South end of Miry Ridge 8134 mm.
Ferriss' 27 mm.
shell was from Iiry Ridge.
On Clingman's Dome it is rare occurring on the western end probably at about 4800 feet.
We did not find it near the summit.
South of the Little Tennessee Ferriss found it on Yellow creek Graham county N. C and in Glen Cove one of the heads of Slick Rock creek in the Unaka Mountains.'
'Mr.
Clapp furnishes the foUowinoj table of measurements of specimeas of P. suyii and P. chilhoweensis in his collection  Polygyra sayii Binn.
Gr.
diam.
17 lesser 15 alt lOJ mm.
New York.
19  17 1 .
Hi ' North Carolina.
20  17  13  New York. 
20  IH  11  North Carolina.
20  17 It 11  11 2U  19  13  New York.
23  20 11 13i 11 Ontario Can.
23  19 u 13  Pennsylvania.
23 1 20 11 13  Ohio.
24i  21 11 15 ' West Virginia.
25 Ik 22 u 14 Virginia.
This specimen has a double parietal tooth.
m  24 11 16 Kentucky.
28  24 1 16 ' ' Virginia.
28i  24 '' 17 '  11 Polygyra cMlhoiceensis Lewis.
Gr.
diam.
31 lesser 26 alt 21 mm.
Miry Ridge.
Tenn. 3H  27 20  The Balsams.
33  28 181 Braden Mt. Campbell county.
33 11 28 21i Miry.
35 11 30 21 Toothed.
Campbell county.
35i u 30 22 Cade's.
36i u 31 20 11 11 36i  1 31 21 Cade's. 
36i  32 24 Unaka Mountains.
37i  32 22i Campbell county.
38 u 33 24i Toothed.
Cade's.
39  33 24 Miry.
39i  33 24j Unaka Mountains. 
42 11 35 26 Bald Mountain 6 000 feet Blount county Tenn.
This last giant is in the Lewis collection and Dr. Lewis says  Cubic dimensions 9.65 of H. diodonta of the size of Say's type.
I think the altitude given for Bald Mountain 6000 feet is a mistake.
 G. H. O. Polygyra albolabris Say.
Cade's Cove at  Roe's Flat  and  Laurel Creek  Ferriss and Clapp Blount county Tenn. South of the Little Tennessee in Graham county N. C Ferriss reports the species from Tuskeegee'Mountain at the head of Yellow creek Yellow creek and the Cheoali river.
We did not find alholabris on the mountains and it probably does not ascend over 2500 feet if so high as that in this region being confined to the coves.
The specimens from Cade's Cove are heavy solid shells 32 to 35 mm.
diam. of beautiful texture the microscopic sculpture being sharply developed.
jNIauy of them blush with a distinct rose tint above the base pale yellow.
The white peristome is strongly developed.
I have been disposed to refer these shells to the variety major the typical form of which occurs in Georgia and western extrapeninsular Florida but the dividing line between alholabris and major is at best an exceedingly indistinct one and we may perhaps be nearer the truth if we consider the shells of this region as a transition between alholabris and major.
A specimen from Johnson City in the valley of East Tennessee measures 38 mm.
diam.
Polygyra exoleta Blnn..
Cade's Cove abundant Glen Cove Unaka Mountains X. C.  Tallassee ford Caringer Tenn.  welldeveloped shells of the normal form.
It was not found by us on the mountains but in the coves and apparently does not ascend much above 2000 feet. 
The Cade's Cove shells vary in color some having a very dark spire shading to nearly white on the base while others are either uniform dark or light. 
 G. H. C. Polygyra ferrissii Pils.
This beautiful species can never become common so rugged and remote are its mountain haunts.
To the north and northwest of the summit of Clingman's Dome the slope is steep frequently precipitous and covered with a talus of great blocks of rock deeply carpeted with sphagnum and shaded by great balsam firs.'
Like the other mountains of this ridge Clingman seems to be a mouo Besides the balsam fir or she balsam Abies fraseri the Picea rubens Sargent is mingled with it in the Clingman forest.
I am indebted to Mr. Thomas Meehau for the id ntifications based on cones and foliage.
cliue the massive conglomerate beds dipping steeply to the south or southeast.
This results in a rocky talus on the north or northwest slopes from disintegration of the faulted or eroded edges of the strata while the other slope is less rugged.
Mossy trunks lie in every direction making progress slow and difficult.
It is on the wet and bare under surfaces of blocks resting free from the ground that Ferriss' Mesodon hves.
Kneeling or lying at length on the wet nioss and peering or crawling into these black crevices we found the snails on the rock roofs of the cavities but only in small numbers.
Candles were occasionally of use.
A few specimens were taken among the rank herbage covering the ground near the summit of the ridge where they live with Clapp's variety of Poligyra andreivse. Besides this locality near the summit of Chngman a few specimens were taken from a similar station about one and a half miles down the west end of the mountain on the Tennessee side probably near the 4000 foot contoui.
This spot was reached by a desperate climb in the bed of a leaping brook through a dense laurel thicket the way led by the indomitable Ferriss.
This locality is a jolly good place for hard work but a poor one for snails.
Ferriss and Sargent found P. ferrissli on Andrews Bald which is really but a spur of the Clingman mass.
Another spot at which P. ferrissii has been taken is on  Miry Ridge on the western slope from a quarter to a half mile below the point where the ridge leaves the boundary range.
The situation is very similar to that described above for Clingman except that many of the fallen stones are smaller and the bulk of the collecting was done by ' quarrying.'
On the southern side of the main range Ferriss found a few specimens in 1898.
These two localities are so close together that they may be considered as practically the same.
 G. JET.
C Along the great ridge ramifying southward from Siler's Bald Ferriss and Sargent found P. ferrissii at Welch Bald.
This peak rises to 5000 feet and is connected with Miry Ridge and Clingman by the 4000 foot contour.
P. ferrissii does not show much variation so far as known.
Ferriss found a single albino a lovely lightgreen shell wliich he gave to the Academy and Sargent found two lightcolored shells one of which was albino in 1899.
Of the specimens taken on Clingman the largest measrures 2Sh the smallest 19 mm.
diam.
Polygyra palliata Say.
Taken by Ferriss at Laurel creek Cade's Cove.
It is apparently wanting in the mountains along the interstate boundary but reappeared in the Little Tennessee region on Chamber's creek and at its mouth on Bob's Bald Stratton Bald at Glen Cove Unakas and Tallassee ford Monroe county Tenn. Mr. Clapp observes that the southern specimens are less hairy than the northern.
Polygyra appressa perigrapta Pi's.
Tuckaleechee Cove Cade's Cove Eagle Creek Thunderhead about 4000 feet Block House The Balsams west end of Chngman about 6000 feet Welch Bald creek and Chamber's creek to the Little Tennessee.
Everywhere well developed typical specimens.
South of the Little Tennessee FerrLss took specimens on Tuskeegee creek Cheoah creek Bob's Bald and in Glen Cove.
We found P. appressa sculptior Chadw.
on the bluffs of the Tennessee opposite Knoxville.
Polygyra clarkii Lea.
Cade's Cove.
Fine specimens were taken about 1000 feet below the summit of Thunderhead on the North Carolina side though it is far from common.
The largest and smallest shells measure Alt.
10 diam.
14 mm.
 alt.
.10 diam.
13 mm.
Clingman's Dome and Andrews Bald  Welch Bald branch of Chamber's creek and south of the Little Tennessee on Tuskeegee and Cfieoah creeks in Glen Cove and at Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee. 
Ferriss and I found this species on liry Ridge in 1898 at about 4000 to 4500 feet.
Decidedly scarce.
Largest alt.
12 diam.
15f mm.
Largest from Thunderhead.
just below Spencer's Cabin alt.
10 diam.
15i mm.
Largest from Cade's Cove alt.
11 diam.
15 mm.
 .
H. C. Polygyra thyroides Say.
We did not find this species along the TennesseeNorth Carolina boundary but Ferriss found it in North Carohna at Welch Bald and ou the Little Tennessee at mouth of Chamber's creek and at Tallassee Ford I picked up a specimen at Porter's Academy Blount county Tennessee.
Polygyra andrewsae W. G. Biuney.
This species was originally described from the thin small greenish horncolored form occurring on the upper 2000 feet of Roan Mounlain.
This form is in reality a local race of a species widely spread along the mountain ridge between Tennessee and North Carolina and eastward probably throughout the mountains extending into Georgia.
Just what its westward limit may be is uncertain biit apparently it does not invade the valley of eastern Tennessee watered by the Holston Nolichucky and Tennessee rivers.
In Blount county Tenn.  we did not find it below about 2000 feet first encountering the species on the slopes of ade's Cove.
Whether it occurs at lower levels or in the isolated Chilhowee ridge remains to be seen as no exploration has been made.
It is obviously not a species of the Cumberland elevation in the proper restriction of that term.
Typical P. andreiosce will of course be restricted to the small Roan Mountain race first described and well represented by Mr. Binney's figures Man.
Amer.
Land Shells fig.
321.
For the larger more solid yellowishbrown or slightly greenish form with wider lip and a more or less distinct prominence hardly a tooth on the columella the varietal name normalis may be used the types being from Cade's Cove Blount county Tenn.
The typical P. andrewsce is not known to occur in the Great Smoky Mountains.
P. andrewsae normalis n. var.
This is the form occurring throughout the Great Smokies in the coves and on the mountain sides up in some places to 4500 feet as at the southern end of Miry Ridge or even higher at the western end of Clingman's Dome.
Specimens with a parietal tooth are very rare and have only a small or indistinct tooth.
No example of var.
normalis with a band is known.
Our collecting gave the following data Cade's Cove.
The snails five on densely wooded mountain sides in the subordinate coves on the Thunderhead side at an elevation of about 20002500 feet.
We found them crawling on the ground and especially on logs or sticks.
The lip is broad  none show a parietal tooth and none are banded or dark colored.
Largest of a series of seventyfive 34J mm.
diam.
 smallest 29 mm  average of the entire lot 31 mm.
Seveutyfive per cent of the shells measure 3133 mm.
diam.
Eagle creek on the South Carolina side of Thunderhead from about 3500 to 4000 feet.
Station similar to Cade's Cove but sometimes crawling up trees four to six feet.
The shells are similar to the preceding lot but there are apparently more very pale or albino specimens among them.
Largest of a series of nineteen 33 mm.
diam.
 smallest 29 mm  average of the lot' 31 mm.
diam.
Twothirds of the shells are 3132 mm diam.
Proctor's Knob on the TennesseeNorth Carolina boundary west of Miry Ridge It.
about 5000 feet.
The shells taken are solid and large measuring 32 33 33 34 35 mm.
 diam.
 average 33J mm.
South end of Miry Ridge 45005000 feet altitude on the boundary trail.
Sixteen specimens two with a very slight trace of a parietal tooth A few show a slight channel at the upper termination of the outer lip.
They occurred on logs of a former camp.
Largest specimens 33 mm diam.
 smallest 30 mm.
 average of the lot 32 mm.
diam.
The shells are more solid than at Eagle creek or Cade's Cove. 
Miry Ridge in Tennessee.
In 1898 Ferriss and I followed out the ridge a few hundred yards and then down the western angle probably 2000 feet.
According to the ' Knoxville sheet' Miry is 5000 feet high Avhere it leaves the boundary.
We collected normalis all the way down but found it most plentiful on top.
It was a very wet season and the snails were all over the ground and weeds and even on the trees several feet above the ground.
My largest from Miry is 36 mm.
diam.
 smallest 31 mm.
diam.
INIany of the shells were very globose two measuring alt.
27 diam.
32 mm. and alt.
28 diam.
34 mm respectively.
One shell 33 mm.
diam. has a strong parietal tooth and two others have faint teeth  G. H. C. Western end of Cliugiuau's Dome at about 56005800 feet.
Specimens of the large variety normalis' are rare here only two being found by me to nineteen of the small variety 'see below during a long search.
These measure 32 and 33 mm ai'e rather solid toothless without a groove at the upper insertion of the lip and quite similar to specimens from liry Ridge Clapp writes of the specimens from this locality  Shells from 'The Balsams' are large and very heavy largest 35i mm. smallest 30 mm.
diam.
As at the second Miry Ridge locality it occurs here with the var.
altivaga but only sparingly.
It was taken also at Andrews Bald and on Chamber's creek by Ferriss.
South of the Little Tennessee Feniss took specimens on Tuskeegee creek and Yellow creek Cheoah river and in Glen Cove one of the heads of Slick Rock creek.
In the Unaka Mountains not far froin Citico creek the shells are large and solid toothless or with the slight trace of a parietal tooth lip not grooved at its junction above.
Diam.
3336mm.
A series would probably show them to be perceptibly larger as well as more solid than the Miry Ridge shells which excel those of other localities mentioned above.
P. andrewsae altivaga n. var.
This is the form of the higher muuntain tops.
It is characterized by the small size globose contour compact coiling of the whorls which scarcely exceed five in number the striation being very fine and delicate parietal wall unarmed or with a small acute tooth lip flat and rather wide the internal rib interrupted near the upper termination leaving a slight channel at the angle of junction more or less obvious in different specimens.
Shell thinner in adults than in adults of var.
normalis  colors typically darker and richer but varying to pale with a dark band above the periphery.
Types from near the summit of Clingman'a Dome with'P.
ferrissii.
Mr. Clapp first directed attention to this form which he and Mr. Ferriss took at the summit of Thunderhead and at Miry Ridge in 1898 While there is no sharply defined single character separating it from the ordinary form of F. andrewsoe normalis yet among some hundreds of specimens of F. andrewsce I have examined I find it easy to distinguish this form which is by all odds the handsomest of the varieties of P. andrewsce.
The following details relate to special localities  Clingman Dome near the summit 6500 feet elevation.
On herbage and moss on the ground shaded by balsams.
The shells are often dented while alive and mostly appear to complete their growth in two seasons the second period of growth beginning of a lighter color and slightly coarser texture than the preceding growth.
Of thirtytwo specimens the largest has a diameter of 28 the smallest 24 mm. eighty per cent being from 25 to 27 mm.
 the average of the lot is 26 mm.
Thirty per cent are more or less distinctly banded.
Mr. Clapp writes of the specimens taken by him that  out of thirtysix shells nineteen are dark and seventeen banded some of the latter with only the peripheral band others with an additional subsutural band.
Largest 29 mm.
 smallest 24 mm diam.
West of ' Double Springs ' I got one specimen 31 J mm diam alt.
24 mm  Andrews Bald south of Cliugman Dome and connected with it by a high ridge alt.
about 5 800 feet.
Forms entirely like that on Clingman were found here by Ferriss.
West end of Clingman between 5500 and 6000 feet Shells similar to those from top of Clingman but usually paler colored.
Fewer specimens are banded one with two distinct bands and a few specimens show a minute but sharply defined parietal tooth quite near the upper end of the lip.
The largest of nineteen examples is 28 mm. the smallest 24 mm.
diam.
 average of the lot 26 mm.
Miry Ridge  ' In the same locality as ferrissii and either under the rocks or in the moss overhanging the edges of the rocks on the western angle of the ridge I think the Miry Ridge shells collected last year are more typical than those from Clingman as they are more mature and heavier.
Out of fifteen Miry Ridge specimens in my collection six have the parietal tooth strong three have it faint and six are toothless.
These shells also show the channel much better than those from Clingman on account of the lip being fully formed.
Of the fifteen shells three are dark six are light we did not get tliis color variety on Clingman two have a peripheral band one has a faint line between the band and the suture and three are what Ferriss calls  half and half  that is the band extends from the periphery to the suture.
Largest Miry shell diam.
30 alt 2U mtn.
 smallest diam 26 alt.
1S mm  H. a The specimens vary from the pale greenishyellow tint occasionally with a band above to a dark reddishbrown color similar to the Clingman form.
The largest of twelve specimens is 2S the smallest 25 mm.
diam.
 average of the lot 27 mm.
diam.
Thunderhead at the summit in a sparse growth of scrub beeches under bunches of moss on the trunks.
The shells ar ' e pale green or tiutecl with red.
frequently with a reddish band and sometimes having an indistinct band at the suture.
The largest of six shells measures 25 mm.
 the smallest 22 mm.
 average of the lot 24 mm.
Mr. Clapp found nine shells which measure ' Largest 26 mm. smallest 23 mm.
 average of lot '24h mm.
One is dark red four light three with a single band and one dark above lighter beneath.
One has a faint parietal tooth.
The shells inhabit a grove of beeches at the edge of the  bald.
The trees are dwarfed by the exposed situation and look as one approaches the grove like an old country orchard.
The shells differ from those of Clingman in being smaller on the average and paler colored.
The form is that of the Clingman iltivaga.
Polygyra wheatleyi Bid..
A characteristic and widespread species in this region.
It is allied to P. ferrissii rather than to the species with which it has hitherto been grouped.
The specimens vary considerably in size and in presence or absence of the parietal tooth the variations being mainly local rather than indiscriminate.
Specimens from Cade's Cove 2000 feet and Thunderhead up to 5300 feet are of good size 13 to 16 rarely 18 mm diam. moderately solid with very broad lip and a welldeveloped parietal tooth when mature.
Similar specimens occur on Block House Mountain south of Thunderhead diam.
16 to 17 mm.
Ferriss found some beautiful greenishwhite albino specimens in Cade's Cove.
Miry Ridge.
Quite common in 1898 and intermediate between the Thunderhead and Clingman forms the lip being narrow and the parietal tooth small.
Smallest of five 14 mm.
 largest 15 mm.
diam.
Found down the western slope from 4000 to 4500 feet. 
 G.
H. C. On Clingman Dome the shells are all small diam.
12 to 14 mm.
 thin xoithout a parietal tooth the aperture more rounded and the lip less flattened.
This seems quite a wellmarked local form.
It occurred from out camp near the western end to the summit.
On Welch Bald the shells are like those from Cade's diam.
1416 mm.
Ferriss took it also along Chamber's creek.
South of the Little Tennessee specimens were taken by Ferriss on Tiiskeegee Mountain north of Tuskeegee creek where they are remarkably small diam.
1212 mm. but the lip is wide and a parietal tooth developed in fully adult shells.
They are not like the form from Clingman.
At Bob's Bald near Mt.
Hayo in Graham county N. C the shells are very large 2023 mm.
diam.
 the parietal tooth present but small.
On Hangover Lead four miles east of Mt.
Hayo they are 12 13 mm. and all dentate.
Mt.
Hayo 1617 mm. dentate.
At Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee river the specimens are like those from Cade's Cove.
It occurs also in Glen Cove.
Polygyra christyi Bid..
Roes Cove and Rowan's in Cade's one specimen taken on Clingman's Dome.
South of the Little Tennessee Ferriss and Sargent found it on Tuskeegee creek and Cheoah river.
Subgenus STENOTKEMA.
The various interrelations of the Steiiotrema species have been discussed in more or less detail by Bland Wetherby and Binney.
Probably the primary division of the group should be based upon the ejidermal sculpture the first five species of the Catalogue Amer.
L. Shells  spinosa labrosa edgariana edvardsi and barbigera to which depilata should be added  having no erect hairs whatever above but short curved epidermal lamina running with the growthlines while stenotrema hirsuta and the rest have either erect hairs above or arc nude.
Species of the first division aie more or less carinated or angular at the periphery at least in front of the aperture those of the second division usualjy are rounded though sometimes subangular.
This division of the group separates depilata from P. stenotrema.
of which it has hitherto been considered a variety and as there are several other characters of importance sundering the two it will be better to treat depilata as a distinct species.
The distinguishing characters of depilata and stenotrema and the varieties of the latter are shown in the folloving key a.
 Surface with short processes parallel tvith the groicthlines above but no erect hairs anywhere  parietal lamella slighter and straighter than in stenotrema the inner end not bending in to meet the basal lip outer end not passing under the asal lip when viewed from below no callous ridge beiween the lamella and the peripheral termination of the outer lip  space between lamella and lip wider than in stenotrema  basal lip with a shallow median notch but no notch or tooth on the outer arc of the lip fulcrum quite small spire high periphery angular surface hairless with faint spiral strise and a silken lustre below.
P. depilata Pils.
a'.
 Surface tvithout laminar processes above hearing erect hairs or none parietal lamella very strong crescentic its inner end curving in and terminating at the axis close to the inner end of the basal lip outer end also strongly incurved.
P. stenotrema Fer.
 Pfr.
b.
 Surface densely though shortly hirsute or beset with the scars of hairs both above and below.
c.  Outer lip with a deep notch for the reception of the outer end of the deeply incurved parietal lamella a distinct tooth outside of the notch fulcrum long form depressed pale colored fi X 10 mm.
Woodville Jackson county Ala. P. stenotrema exodon Pils.
c'.
 Outer lip less notched and less distinctly or not toothed fulcrum decidedly shorter form more globose more elevated and usually dark colored.
Typical stenotrema.
h'.
 Surface without hairs or their scars other characters of typical stenotrema 6 X 10 mm.
Nashville Bellevue and Johnson City Tenn. P. stenotrema nuda n. var.
Polygyra depilata Pilsbry.
This species was first found by Mrs Andrews.
It is not closely allied to P. stenotrema with which I formerly associated it but to P. edvardsi.
It is known from high up in  Sugar Cove on the Thunderhead side of Cade's Cove one specimen  near the summit of Thunderhead where all our party took specimens and The names jlobosa Nautilus  p. 77 and subglohosa Catalogue p. 14 are to be suppressed.
Both are purelj nomina nuda.
As not a word of definition has been published and as they are quite inapplicable to the depressed variety here defined from Woodville Ala. no good purpose would be served by their perpetuation.
Both typical steiotrema and var.
exodon were collected at Woodville by Mr. H. E. Sargent.
9 where Mrs. Andrews first found it and Clingman Dome near the summit. 
Ferriss and I found it on Miry Ridge in 1898 same locality as P. ferrissii.
Occasionally on trees in moss.
 G. H. C. It also occurs on Andrews Bald a spur of Clingman in Swain county N. C and south of the Little Tennessee river in the northeastern Unaka Mountains on Stratton Bald Sargent.
In the specimens from this peak collected not far from the 5000foot contour the notch in the basal lip is shallower and wider from the obsolescence of the callus between it and the axis.
 It lives in Avet moss and on rocks  not around logs like our northern Stenotremes.
In size it varies but little the extremes being 910 mm.
diam.
The conic spire is lower in some individuals there being sometimes as much as 1 mm.
variation in height in specimens of the same diameter.
The silky sheen of the surface seems invariable.
Some albino specimens from Thunderhead are light green.
Polygyra edvardsi magnifumosa n. var.
Shell small dark brown and lustreless often with some golden streaks or spots  the perijihery angular in front  whorls 4 to oh  the upper surface distinctly wrinklestriate not hairy but when unworn showing short cuticular lamina
like those on F. spinosa lower surface smooth showing fine slight spiral striiie and sometimes very short hairs or hairscars.
Aperture much as in P. stenotrema the parietal lamella well developed curving downwards at both ends a callous ridge running from it to the peripheral insertion of the outer lip notch of the basal lip median of moderate size  no tooth developed on the callus withiu the outer lip.
Alt.
4.7 to 5 diam.
7 to 7 mm.
Brannon's and Chestnut Flats in Cade's Cove Blount county Tenn. one specimen an albino  Welch Bald on the Forney Ridge one specimen and Welch Bald branch of Chamber's creek nineteen specimens Chamber's creek four all in Swain county N. C. Also south of the Little Tennessee river in Graham county N. C on Tuskeegee creek three specimens and on the Cheoah river near the confluence of Yellow creek thirtyone specimens. 
Bob's Bald  three specimens.
Clay county N. C.  at Hayesville fortythree specimens.
In all 105 specimens from some eight localities the exti'eme points about forty miles apart.
Its vertical range is from about 4500 feet on Welch Bald to a little below 2000 feet at Hayesville Chamber's creek Cheoah river etc.
Despite the varying localities the specimens are remarkably uniform in character.
The largest specimen was taken on Chamber's creek measuring 5.7 mm.
alt. 8.8 mm.
diam  otherwise typical.
The pecuhar sculpture of the upper surface resembling that of P. spinosa depUata edvardsi etc. and wholly unlike Pstenotrema or P. hirsida amply distinguish it from the latter species.
Compared with P. edvardsi described from West Virginia the var niagnifiimom differs in the following features the parietal lamina is higher stronger and more sinuous with a stronger callus between it and the upper end of the peristome the lip notch is deeper and wider and the periphery is less angular.
P. edvardsi was collected at Burnside Pulaski county Ky. by Messrs. Ferris and Sargent the specimens differing fi'om the West Virginians in the welldeveloped lip notch.
P. barbigera Red.
A single half grown shell from Hayesville Clay county N. C Avas taken by Ir.
Sargent  and while the peristome is still sharp and simple the shaggy cuticle fringed at the sutures indicates this rare species Polygyra stenotrema 'Fer.'
Pfr.
Practically typical specimens occur throughout the region but in some localities noted below huge fellows larger than ever have been recorded were found by Mi Ferriss.
The localities are Tuckaleechee Cove and Cade's Cove including the dependent Sugar Cove Thunderhead the specimens being very densely hirsute above and below 911 mm.
diam. and have an extremely small notch in the basal lip.
Chamber's creek Swain county X. C. Diam.
varying from 8.7 to 10 mm.
Densely hirsute the notch very small in two quite large in three specimens the latter smaller.
Another lot from same locality consists of eight very large densely hirsute specimens normal in form varying from 7 X 11 to 8.2 X 12.3 mm. whorls oh to 6.
Some of these shells are the largest I have seen of the species.
Tuskeegee creek Graham county N. C small specimens diam.
9 and 10 mm. the form typical Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee river iMonroe county Tenn. Several large globose shells 1112 mm.
diam. and some decidedly smaller 8 10 mm.
diam.
Yellow creek Mt.
Hayo Stratton Bald and Glen Cove Graham county and Hayesviile Clay county are other North Carolina localities where Ferriss or Sargent took specimens.
Polygyra hirsuta pilula n. var.
Smaller than typical hirsuta Avith more elevated spire whorls nearly 5 the last with wellrounded periphery surface beset with rather long curved hairs.
Parietal tooth sinuous connected mth the peripheral end of the outer lip by a callous ridge.
Basal lip 3toothed the median notch much deeper thau in hirsuta with raised edges the outer tooth small.
Alt.
4 diam.
6 mm.
The smallest specimens measure alt.
4 diam.
5 mm.
Thunderhead Mountain from near the summit to Cade's Cove.
This form is not only smaller and more globular than F. hirsuta but the armature of the basal lip is difierent.
The median notch is much deeper and instead of being a mere notch in a straight calloused edge it appears as a deep sinus between two wide irregular teeth.
This form seems to be confined to the Great Smoky Mountains.
It was first found in June 1895 by Mrs. George Andrews.
Subsequently Messis. Ferriss and Clapp collected specimens and the party of five collected it in 1899.
We found it in  Sugar Cove  Lead Cove Rowan's and Laurel creek in Cade's Cove and on Thunderhead near the middle summit among the rocks where Gatrodonta lamellidens was found.
Sargent found it on Welch Bald and Ferriss took specimens on Tuskeegee creek below the Little Tennessee river in Graham county N. C. It apparentl' does not descend below 2000 feet above the sea.
This variety must not be confused with a small form of the species which occurs in the mountains of Pennsylvania Maryland and Virginia which is more depressed than var.
pilula and hi not the peculiar basal lip described above.
In the West Michigan Illinois Iowa etc. a 'form decidedly larger than that of the Middle States occurs still retaining the normal shape of the basal lip.
lu the region of Roau Mountain ascending to about 5000 feet P. hirsuta is represented by another wellmarked subspecies P. h. altispira Pils.
This form is large diam.
9 alt.
7 mm. with high conoidal spire and broad deep labial notch.
It occurs also in the Black Mountains IST.
C. Hemphill and in its area apparently replaces the true P. hirsuta as the subspecies p7wZa does in the Great Smokies.
It has the habits of P. depilata according to Wetherby living in damp moss not under logs and sticks like the lowland P. hirsuta.
Polygyra monodon cincta Lewis.
Found very sparingly at Chamber's creek Church on Yellow creek Cheoah river iu Glen Cove and at Tallassee foi'd of the Little Tennessee river.
The specimens are nearly typical of the variety which has more striking peculiarities of form than of color.
In the James Lewis collection there are specimens from Hayesville N. C. It was found to be a very rare shell by Ferriss.
PUPIDiE.
Bifidaria contracta Say. 
Sugar Cove  and Laurel creek in Cade's Cove Ferriss Clapp and Walker Thunderhead Clapp one specimen.
It is rare in the mountains.
Vertigo bollesiana Morse.
Cade's Cove Ferriss and Clapp  Tuskeegee Mountains between Yellow creek and Tuskeegee creek Ferriss.
Very rare in the mountains and apparently quite typical.
Strobilops labyrinthicus strebeli Pfr..
Cade's Cove Clapp et al.
 Tuskeegee creek Ferriss.
AOHATINIDffi.
Cocblicopa lubrica Mull..
Sugar Cove in Cade's Cove Blount county Tenn. and ' Ramp Cove between the headwaters of Tuskeegee and Yellow creeks Sargent.
Very rare iu the mountains a single specimen found at each of the two localities.
OIROINARIIDiE.
Circinaria concava Say.
Cade's Cove  Thunderhead  Clingman's Dome to near the summit Welch Bald Chamber's creek.
South of the Little Tennessee it was taken by Ferriss on Tuskeegee and Yellow creeks Cheoak river in Glen Cove and at Tallassee ford.
After his visit to the mountains in 1898 Mr. Clapp called my attention to the fact that there are two forms of this species in the Smokies a larger and a smaller.
This however seems to be a case of Avide range of individual variation in size.
Thus of five adult specimens taken in the lily patch near the summit of Clingman the largest is 15 mm.
diam. with o whorls the smallest 12 mm.
diam. with 4 whorls.
Two others are 13f and 14 mm.
in diam.
A larger series taken on Thunderhead in the Eagle Creek region N. C between 3500 and 4500 feet contains larger shell the measurements of four being 18 16 15 and slightly under 14 mm.
There seems but little variation in the specimens from Cade's Cove adults measuring about 16 mm.
diam.
Of course only specimens with the peristome completely developed are considered.
Mr. Clapp' s note follows  Largest from Cade's 18 smallest 13 mm.
diam.
Largest from Thunderhead 20 mm. with 5 whorls smallest 14 mm. with 4 whorls.
The small shells have a proportionately Adder umbilicus.
It may be merely an optical illusion but the last whorl of the small shells appears to be subangular around the umbilicus.
A specimen from Philadelphia Loudon county Tenn. in the Lewis collection measures 22 mm.
diam.
ZONITID.
Omphalina fuliginosa polita Pils.
Fine specimens up to 28 mm.
diam.
occur in Cade's Cove.
Those from Thunderhead near the summit are not so large diam.
2526 mm.
Mr. Ferriss took it also at Chamber's Church at the mouth of Chamber's creek Swain county X. C. In 1898 Clapp collected specimens along the bluffs of Little river in Tuckaleechee Cove.
They are much smaller than the Great Snuky shells the largest being only 20 mm.
in diam.
Omphalina laevigata 'Raf.'
Beck.
Mcsouiphix Ictvigata Raf. Beck Index Molluscorum p. 7 1S37.
Helix Icevifjata Fer. Pfr. et anct. not Helix IcEvigata Fenuaut.
1T7T.
The name of this species has been long preoccupied as a Helix but I propose to avoid the obloquy of changing it by dating it from Beck who really first defined the species by a reference to Ferussac's figures and whose publication was anterior to that of PfeifFer who has generally been cited as authority for the name.
The synonomy has been ably discussed by Mr. W. G. Binney who however does not ci'edit Beck with the name.
The type locality is Kentucky.
Not uncommon in Cade's Cove attaining 20 mm.
diam.
Those from high on Thunderhead are rather smaller the color being decidedly green.
Mr. Clapp took one specimen on the west end of Clingman.
Mr. Ferriss took duskier specimens on the Cheoah river Graham county N. C. Two notable varieties occur near the Litlle Tennessee river.
0. laevigata perlaevis n. v. Whorls more convex beneath than in typical Icevigata the last whorl much smoother above not ribstriate its width at the aperture measured above less than onethird the diameter of the shell.
Aperture roundedlunate almost as high as wide.
Alt.
9 diam.
17 mm.
This is from Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee river Monroe county Tenu.
Omphalina laevigata latior n. v. Broad and depressed more broadly excavated around the umbilicus than the typical form the last whorl uider its width at aperture measured above onethird the diameter of the shell and far smoother than in Icevigata being wrinkled irregularly but without the close deeply cut and subregular ribstrise of the typical form of that species.
Aperture ovallunate far wider than high.
Color yellowish green.
Alt.
IS diam.
24 mm. or as large as 14 X 27 mm.
Tallassee ford Little Tennessee river 3Ionroe county Tenn.  also Chamber's creek Church at juiution of Chamber's creek with the Little Tennessee river.
A large flattened and very gieen form in which the ribstriie are obsolete on the last whorl and the aperture decidedly oval.
In 0.
I. perkevis the base is more convex around the umbilicus the mouth much more nearly round and the last whorl narrower.
.
I. latior has an elegant microscopic sculpture which gives the upper surface a somewhat silky lustre.
Omplialiiia subplana Biuney.
In this species the apex and inner whorls are striated as in 0.
Icevigata not smooth as in inornata.
Splendidly developed specimens occur in the Smokiest tlie largest taken by myself in Cade's Cove measuring 21 mm.
diam.
On the flanks of Thunderhead equally large specimens occur nearly to the summit one in Clapp's collection measuring 23 mm.
diam.
A clear green albino is among those collected there.
As on Roan Mountain it lives with Vitrinizonites but is not rare.
The shells are hard to clean scarcely ever  pulling well.
It occurs but rarely on Clingman's Dome.
Ferriss took specimens on Block House Mountain and Welch Bald and south of the Little Tennessee river on Tuskeegee creek Cheoah river Mt.
Hayo and in Glen Cove.
Omphalina andrewsse Pilsbry.
A very characteristic shell of the Great Smokies in Blount county replacing here the 0. inornata of the Cumberland Plateau.
The largest taken by myself in Cade's Cove is 16 mm.
diam. but Clapp took one 17mm.
diam.
On Thunderhead near the summit about 5400 feet they are smaller diam 12 mm. and rather thinner.
Specimens with a dark band above the periphery occasionally occur.
It is one of the most beautiful shells of the region.
Specimens were taken by Clapp on Miry Ridge in 1808 diam.
of the largest 17 mm.
Also collected by Ferriss on Block House Clingman's.
Welch Bald Welch Bald branch Chamber's creek and south of the Little Tennessee river on Tuskeegee creek Cheoah river It.
Hayo in Glen Cove and at Tallassee ford.
It therefore seems generally distributed in the Great Smokies and northeastern Unakas.
0. andrewsae montivaga Pils.
This form seems to show no intergiadatiou with andreivsa and is chiefly notable for the prolonged form of the aperture.
The largest taken in Cade's Cove measures 19 mm.
diam. and it is usually over 17.
They are smaller 15 to 17 mm. near the summit of Thunderhead.
Mr. Ferriss took specimens on Welch Bald and Chamber's creek and south of the Little Tennessee on Cheoah river.
Clapp took it in 1898 on 3Iiry Ridge diam.
18 mm.
Vitrinizonites latissimus Lewis.
Slopes on south side of Cade's Cove about 20002500 feet elevation near summit of Thunderhead lurking in deep moss covering the damp rocks Block House Mountain just south of Thunderhead Clingman's Dome not far from the summit in moss on the Polygyra ferrmii and P. andrewsct altivaga ground Welch Bald and below the Little Tennessee Ferriss took one specimen on Stratton Bald in the northeastern pai't of the Uuaka range.
The species is ubiquitous in the Great Smokies everywhere above 2000 feet though not found in great numbers and restricted to moist places where moss carpets the rocks or logs.
These conditions are met on the lower levels vhere the mountain slopes are densely shaded but on the cloudtouched heights not much shade is necessary.
The shell of V. latissimus is often deficient in calcareous stiffening in the region near the axis behind the columella and it is more or less shrunken or dented there.
This is a significant feature showing that Vitrinizonites is varying toward the condition of shell we find in Cryptoslrakon Peltella Gceotis and some forms of Girasia in all of which decalcification has aiFected the same region of the shell.
The following form however shows more impartial decalcification or to be more exact want of calcification.
Vitrinizonites latissimus uvidermis u. var.
Near the summit of Thunderhead and Clingman's Dome in the wet moss covering the rocks there lives a form of Vitrinizonites of about the size of hdissimus but almost wholly lacking any calcareous layer of the shell.
The cuticular test is more or less dented and distorted in the living snails and when  cleaned the shell collapses like wet paper unless stuffed with cotton.
The surface is usually less brilliant than in V. latissimus and the last halfturn of the suture deviates somewhat more tangentially.
The color varies from as light as the ordinary V. latissimus of the region to a very dusky even blackish shade.
These  grapeskin Vitrinizo7iites as we called them live with the normal form but are apparently always easily distinguished as above indicated.
A cleaned shell quite resembles the empty skin of the ordinary free' See Manual of Conchology XII second series p. 211. skinned Concord grape.
The form was first found by Ferriss and Clapp in 1898.
It is not improbable that a study of the soft parts which I hope to find time for before long will show it to differ specifically from V. latissimus.
Vitrea petrophila pentadelphia n. var.
Shell about the size of V. indentata  glossy pinkbrown openly umbilicated convex above composed of 4h whorls those of the spire slowly widening the last much wider surface sculptured with many unevenly spaced radiating grooves similar in character to those of V. indentata but more numerous and there are some strise intermingled the spire being more closely striate.
Xj mentionable spiral strife seen with an enlargement of fifty diameters.
The grooves continue upon the base but are weaker there.
Aperture broadly lunate.
Alt.
2 greatest diam.
5 mm.
Cade's Cove Blount county Tenu. in many places   Roe's and  Sugar Coves  Rowan's and Laurel creeks  from about 1800 to 2200 feet elevation.
Apparently wanting in the higher region at least not found by us along the crests and peaks but taken by Ferriss and Sargent on Stratton Bald in the Uuaka Mountains Graham county N. C at what altitude not known and at or below the level of Cade's Cove on the Cheoah river near the junction of Yellow creek and in Monroe county Teun. at Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee river near Caringer.
This Vitrea may be briefly characterized as similar to V. petrophila but with only 4 instead of 50 whorls in shells of the same size slightly wider umbilicus less embracing and therefore less deeply lunate aperture and usually pinkish instead of whitishcorneous color.
F. rhoadsi is a smaller shell with decidedly narrower umbilicus.
V. petrophila is not known to occur in the Great Smoky ountains.
Judging from specimens taken by Mr. Clapp and myself at Knoxville Tenn. and part of the oiiginal lot received from Bland as well as other specimens collected by Ferriss and Sargent at Burnside Ky.  that species is very constant in charactei's.
F. p. pentadelphia seems equally constant in the considerable number I have now seen collected by Mrs. Andrews and the members of 1' The form reported thence in the Catalogue of American Land ShcUs p. 27 No.
2G3 was var.
pentadelphia.
our party of 1899.
It is the memoiy of this journey of five conchologists which the name seeks to perpetuate.
Vitrea carolinensis Ckll..
This species has been discriminated from V. sculptilis in the published accounts but it is very much more closely allied to V. indentata.
Indeed it becomes an extremely difficult matter ta separate the smaller form of carolinensis such as prevails in the Great Smoky Mountains from V. indentata.
There is however one usually decisive criterion V. carolinensis when examined with a very strong handlens or better a compound microscope with an enlargement of 25 or 50 diameters shows a minute sculpture of very even close clearcut spiral engraved lines.
In V. indentata the same magnification only brings out an extremely weak striation or none only rarely does it approach the condition of T' carolinensis.
This microsculpture is so minute tliat an ordinary pocket lens even a very good one rarely reveals it.
But I have seen very few specimens which could not be definitely referred either to carolinensis or indentata when examined with a compound microscope.
The sculpture is visible only in the  highlight  or point of reflection.
Common throughout the Great Smoky ranges wherever explored.
In Cade's Cove and the dependent valleys it has been taken in many places Rowan creek diam.
6 mm Brannon's ' ' Chestnut Flats ' ' diam.
6 mm.
 Laurel creek diam.
oh to 7 mm.
 Sugar Cove diam.
6 mm.
 most of these having been collected by Ferriss the localities lying between 1800 and 2200 feet.
On Thunderhead near the summit at 53005400 feet on Block House Mountain and on the western end of Clingman Dome 6000 feet they measure 5 to 6 mm diam.
 Welch Bald diam 6 mm.
 and on Chamber's creek adults 5 to 6 mm.
diam.
South of the Little Tennessee river specimens were taken by Ferriss and Sargent on Tuskeegee creek and Cheoah river diam 7 mm  Hayesville diam 5 mm.
 Stratton Bald in the northeastein Unakas alt.
about 5000 feet.
In Monroe county Tenn. it occurred at Tallassee ford diam.
 mm.
It was taken on Miry Ridge in 1898 by Clapp whose largest specimen measures 8 mm.
diam.
Besides these mountain localities Mr. Clapp collected V. carolinensis at Oakdale Morgan county Tenn and Mr. Ferriss obtained at at New Pittsburg Teuu.
6 mm.
diam.
 and at Burnside Ky. diara 6 to 7 mm.
I found a specimen among shells Clapp and I collected on the south side of tlie Tennessee at Knoxville.
Vitrea sculptilis Bid..
This strikingly distinct species Avas taken in Cade's Cove and on Thunderhead Mountain up to the spot near the summit where Gastrodonta lamellidetu was found.
The largest from this locality is 7 mm.
diam.
Ferriss and Sargent add the localities Block House Andrew's Bald Chamber's creek in Swain county and Cheoah river and Stratton Bald in Graham county X. C. Also Tallassee ford and Welch Bald.
It was described from somewhat below these localities in the Anantahely Mountains N. C. Under a strong lens the surface of this species is seen to be granulosa in spiral series and the edges of the radial grooves seem somewhat raised.
This is usually more prominent on the spire than on the last whorl Vitrea capsella Gld..
Probably most of the examples from the Great Smokies are referable to the variety placentula Avhich is larger than typical capsella with an additional whorl but one lot of seven shells from '' Sugar Cove oft' Cade's Cove is typical capsella.
The largest shell measures 5 mm.
diam.
 and has 6 J whorls.
Sargent took it in  Ramp Cove on Tuskeegee lountain between the headwaters of Tuskeegee and Yellow creeks in Graham county N. C. V. capsella placentula Shnttl..
Cade's Cove Thunderhead near summit a little smaUer.
It occurs also on Chamber's creek Swain county N. C. It is very difficult to draw a line between capsella and placentula.
Conulus chersinus Say.
Cade's Cove Ferriss and Clapp.
Zonitoides arboreus Say.
Cade's Cove at many points Laurel and Rowan's creeks Roe's Braunou's etc.
 but not common Thunderhead at Spencer's Cabin under dried cowdung and near Eagle Creek  Block House Mountain south of Thunderhead  west end of Cliugman at about 5800 feet on logs.
Chamber's creek and AVelch Bald Swain county and south of the Little Tennessee on Tuskeegee creek Graham county Ferriss and Sargent and at Hayesville Clay county Sargent.
Also Tallassee ford.
It is common at Knoxville.
Seems to occur throughout the mountains though far more sparingly than on lower country and apparently varies from the Northern shells in being somewhat smaller and frequently more widely umbilicated.
Zonitoides patuloides Pilsbry.
I found one specimen under cliips in Cade's Cove on the Thunderhead trail.
Ferriss and Clapp took one or two specimens each in various parts of Cane's Cove in 1898 and Sargent in 1899.
It is one of the rarest snails.
Zonitoides elliotti Redfield.
Cade's Cove Thunderhead near the summit Welch Bald and Welch Bald branch Chamber's creek down to the Little Tennessee south of which Ferriss and Sargent took specimens on Tuskeegee creek Cheoah river and Mt.
Hayo.
Also Stratton Bald and Hayesville N. C. Sargent Z. elliotti is evidently allied to the preceding species not to the Gastrodontas where I formerly placed it.
It has the footgrooves and caudal pore of the Zonitidce as Binney has stated and the resemblance of the shell to Circinaria is therefore meaningless.
Messrs. Ferriss and Sargent took specimens of Zonitoides lateumbilicafus Pils.
at Burnside Pulaski county Ky.
This species has not hitherto been reported from elsewhere than the type locality in Jackson county Ala.  where it was discovered by Mr. H. E. Sargent.
GASTRODONTA The genus Gastrodonta is a most interesting one to the evolutionist presenting a considerable number of local forms.
These are of all grades between the shghtest deviation from the historic types of the species and strongly marked subspecies or forms which apparently could be called specific.
Taking the group exclusive of Taxeodonta as enumerated in the Catalogue recently published by the Nautilus it divides naturally into three parts  the group of G. ligera containing intertexta acerra demissa cerinoidea and lujera the rjrouj of G. cjularis containing collisella gularis suppressa ccelaxis lawce and lasmodon  and finally the group of G. interna comprising that species alone. 
G. elliotti  evidently does not belong here but to Zonitoides next to Z. patuloides  and G. macilenta Shuttl. not W. G.
Biun.
is a synonym of G. lasmodon.
It is often an excessively difficult matter to separate young G. gularis from G. supjiressa yet they cannot reasonably be united specifically.
Gastrodonta intertexta Binu..
Cade's Cove Blount county Tenu.
Also taken by Ferriss on Welch Bald branch Chamber's creek and Tuskeegee creek and by Sargent at Hayesville N. C. Clapp found one sjecimen an albino on the west end of Clingman.
Gastrodonta acerra Lewis.
Commonly distributed in the Smokies.
Cade's Cov variable in size and form measuring from alt.
10 diam.
16 to alt.
11 diam.
14 mm.
 the high beehive shaped form prevailing Thunderhead 5400 feet and Clingman Dome 6500 feet somewhat thinner and smaller diam.
121.3 mm.
 and in North Carolina at Welch Bald Chamber's creek in Swain county and south of the Little Tennessee river on Cheoah river Mt.
Hayo and in Glen Cove Graham county and Hayess'ille Clay county N. C.  also at Tallassee ford Monroe county Tenn. Ferriss and Sargent.
The form of acerra prevalent in the mountains is generally smaller and more elevated than Dr. James Lewis' specimens from Monroe county Tenn. and the last whorl seen from above is not so wide.
Occasional specimens however may be found almost exactly like the IMonroe county shells though the average or norm of the mountain sheUs is perceptibly different.
Mr. Walker got a sinistral specimen in Cade's Cove.
Gastrodonta demissa Binn..
Rowan creek Cade's Cove with G. gularis Ferriss.
Also taken at Chattanooga Tenn. by Mr. Ferriss and at Stratton Bald Graham county N. C and Harrimau Tenn by Mr. Sargent.
Gastrodonta gularis Say.
The very large series examined shows considerable variation in height of the spire but is constant in the barely perforated umbilicus.
The teeth vary as usual ofteu curving strongly toward each other but sometimes nearly straight.
The same sort of shell prevails throughout naost of the localities thus far explored in the Great Smokies about 400 shells from that region having Ijeen individually examined.
The localities are as follows Monroe county Teuu. Tallassee ford and on Citico ci'eek Blount county.
Cade's Cove in many places.
Along the TeunesseeXorth Carolina boundary at Thunderhead and Clingman's Dome.
Swain county N. C at Welch Bald and on Chamber's creek Graham county K. C on Tuskeegee creek and Cheoah river and on Strattou Bald 5000 feet.
At Hayesville Clay county N. C. slightly below 2000 feet a series of over 100 specimens collected by Sargent shows somewhat more variation than occurs in the other localities enumerated above.
The umbilicus varies from a very minute perforation in nearly all examples to one about .8 mm.
wide in a very few and of two specimens mth a diam.
of 8 mm. one is 5 mm.
high with fully 8 whorls another 4 mm.
with 7 whorLs.
All intermediate contours occur.
The high examples do not have the full basal whorl of G. colliseUa and are true gularis in the mouth parts.
Gastrodonta interna Say.
Apparently does not occur abundantly in the mountains along the Tennessee Xorth Carolina boundary.
Ferriss found it on Welch Bald Chamber's creek Church and south of the Little Tennessee on Tuskeegee creek Cheoah river and Bob's Bald.'' Section TAXEODONTA.
This little group comprises the thin little Gastrodonts allied to G. multidentata.
Comparison of the shells and soft anatomy should be made with the toothed Conulus and with certain toothed individuals of the Y. capsella group.
Aside from these the group stands well apart from others.
G. significans and G. andreivsce are comparatively large and robust forms the former widely distributed and with teeth in pairs the latter belonging to the Eoan Mountain region and with numerous teeth.
Then we have in the Great Smokies several peculiar species ' Ferriss lists G. interna from  Brandon's Cove probably Brannon's Cove subsidiary to Cade's Cove.
Gastrodonta clappi Pilsbry.
Described from Miry Ridge where it was taken by Ferriss and Clapp in 1898 but most of the few shells taken that year were found at the lamellidens locality on Thunderhead.
In 1899 we found it at the western end of Clingman at about 5800 feet alt. on wet stones some distance below the surface.
Mr. Ferriss found a single halfgrown but unmistakable specimen on Block House Mountain a peak nameless oa the Geological Survey topographic map lying south of Thunderhead and Sargent took specimens on Thunderhead in the G. knnellidens locality.
Xo specimens yet seen either old or young have internal teeth or barriers.
It is very distinct from the following forms by its mucli larger size and conspicuously coarser sculpture wider whorls etc.
The type measures alt.
3 diam.
5.5 width of umbilicus .23 mm. whorls 6.
The spire is slightly raised.
The Thunderhead examples agree with the type in having a very small umbilicus the spire being slightly convex.
A specimen taken by Clapp on Clingman measures alt.
3 diam.
G.2.
width of umbilicus .54 mm. whorls G the spire nearly plane.
Below  The Balsams  on the western end of Clingman a few hundred feet down the Tennessee side I found two halfgrown specimens of about 3.8 mm.
diameter also having the umbilicus somewhat wider than in the Miry Ridge type though less wide than Clapp' s specimen and the spire nearly flat.
It is unsafe to draw conclusions from the three specimens thus far known from Clingman but perhaps that peak has a race with more depressed spire and wider umbilicus.
Four localities are now known for this species the Thunderhead Miry Ridge and Clingman shells coming from a little north of the interstate boundarj in Tennessee the Block House shell from south of the boundary in Xorth Carolina.
None of the localities are far from the 5000foot contour and the extremes He about thirteen miles apart.
The shells are extremely fragile like most forms living on the Clingman and Thunderhead conglomerates.
The most assiduous search by our party of five in 1899 resulted in finding fourteen specimens most of them immature.
About as many were found by Messrs. Ferriss and Clapp in 1898.
G. lamellidens Pilsbrj.
A very glossand brilliant dark reddishbrown shell with the closely coiled whorls and size of G. multidentata but differing from that species in never having radial rows of teeth but having obliquely radial laminae three in young rarely more than one or two in adult shells.
This armature is constant in a large number of specimens that I have examined collected by Ferriss Clapp and myself.
Mr. Clapp has a similarly armed shell very light colored but otherwise typical from Deering N. H. collected by Mr. E. W. Roper and there is one No.
57106 in the collection of the Academy from Greenwich N. Y.
The question arises are these not mere occasional variations of G. multidentata which appear sporadically rather than a distinct species 
In this case lamellidens is to be regarded as a race in which this rare variation has become a fixed and so far as can be proved by about 150 shells examined probably a constant character.
And in this connection the possible relationship to these forms of Conulus dentatus Sterki which has similar armature needs investigation.
In G. lamellidens the surface shows no spiral striation under an enlargement of 50 or 75 diameters it is rather deeply closely and regularly costul ate striate  and the width of the umbilicus is contained about ten times in the diameter of the shell.
The type locality is a steep slope close to the middle summit of Thunderhead deeply covered with a talus of angular stones small and large in the interstices of which there is considerable mould which supports a herbaceous growth.
Vitrinizonites Gastrodonta acerra and a few Polygyra depilata are the chief dwellers among the moss of the superficial stones but as Ferriss wrote last year a  quarry must be opened to find G. lamellidews.
Each one of the wet stones must be closely examined on all sides before it is thrown out and once in a long while one or two of the snails may be found if one is in luck.
They occur from a few inches to a foot or more below the surface of the talus.
Specimens have also been found by Mr. Ferriss at Block House Mountain near and south of Thunderhead Swain county and at  By an error of my own the locality Clingman's Dome  was given in the Classified Catalogue p. 29.
Xo specimens are yet known from Clingman though it will probably be found there.
10 Strattou Bald and ou the Cheoah river Graham couuty K. C.  Sargent also took it at Stratton Bald.
Gastrodonta walkeri n. sp.
Size of G. lamellidens and genei'al contour about the same whorls 5f  umbilicus much wider and more open its diameter contained about bh times in that of the shell surface rather dull to the naked eye under strong magnification seen to be extremely finely and irregularly plicatulatestriate the strice cut into minute heads by close decussating impressed encirclinrj lines lo internal aminse or teeth in adults or with two transverse curved barriers as in G. lamellidens.
Alt.
1.45 diam.
2.9 width of umbilicus .5 mm.
Cheoah river near junction of Yellow creek Graham county N. C. three specimens taken by Ferriss. 
Ramp Cove on Tuskeegee Mountain between the heads of Tuskeegee and Yellow creeks several taken by Sargent.
This form differs from G. clappi in the sculpture and in size.
It resembles G. lamellidens and multidentata but is ornamented with densely ci'owded spiral lines and very conspicuously finer growthstrise and has a wider umbilicus.
A halfgrown specimen of the type lot has two curved internal laminre hke G. lamellidens with finely denticulate edges the others have no internal armature.
Four specimens from Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee Monroe county Tenn. have Ihe spirals rather more spaced and each has two internal denticulate transverse laminai umbilicus about oneseventh the diameter of shell.
Of the specimens taken by Sargent one from Ratnp Cove has an internal barrier another none and those from Sam.
Blair's at Tallassee Ford vary in the same way.
The decussated sculpture is constant.
The species will be most easily recognized by the finer radial sculpture and wider umbilicus than lamelUdem s the spirals are nearly or quite invisible under an ordinary lens though their development is an essential specific character.
G. multidentata Binn..
Oakdale IMorgau county Tenn. one specimen Clapp.
Though not in the Great Smoky lountaiu area this is included as showing the southward distribution of the species.
G. significans Bid.. 
Ramp Cove Tuskeegee Mountain between the headwaters of Tuskeegee creek and Yellow creek.
Typical specimens taken by Ferriss and Sargent.
LIMACID.
Agriolimax campestris Binn..
Thunderhead Mountain near the summit common.
PHILOMYCID.
PMlomycus carolinensis Bosc.
Tuckaleechee and Cade's Coves Blount county Tenn.  Thunderhead to the summit crawling on trees Cliugman Dome.
This species is common throughout the Great Smoky Mountains and the individuals reach a very large size.
In the humid atmosphere of the mountain tops Philomycm lives in the open on trees and logs not concealed beneath the bark as in dryer localities.
PMlomycus hempMUi W. G. Binney. 
Sugar Cove in Cade's Cove at over 2000 feet elevation Thunderhead near the summit on moss etc.
 Clingman's Dome.
The coloration of this species reminds one of Amalia hewstoni the back being black fading on the sides to Avhitish beneath.
The jaw in a specimen examined has a group of four contiguous ribs near the middle.
The specimens collected were drowned but all collapsed in alcohol and probably some other method of ireservation would be better.
ENDODONTID.
Pyramidula alter nata Say.
Andrews Bald Welch Bald Cheoah river Tuskeegee creek and Mt.
Hayo IST.
C. At Glen Cove Unaka Mountains Graham county N. C. Ferriss a distinctly depressed form but not more carinated than typical shelJs occurred.
Tjpical specimens of P. alternaia carinata Pils.
were taken by Ferriss at Burnside Pulaski county Ky. Large specimens up to 22 mm.
diam.
This form is very strongly carinated but rather more finely ribbed than typical alternata.
See Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1896 p. 490.
The types of the variety were taken by Mr. S. X. Rhoads on the Emory river near Harriman Tenn.
It is a race of the Cumberland Plateau.
Pyramidula alternata costata Lewis.
We took this strongly marked variety in Cade's Cove and on Thuuderhead.
It has not been found elsewhere see Clapj Nautilus XIII p. 41.
Ferriss found a sinistral specimen in Sugar Cove off Cade's.
Pyramidula perspectiva Say.
Cade's Cove near summit of Thunderhead and near summit of Clingmau's Dome.
Ferriss adds the localities Welch Bald Chamber's creek Tuskeegee creek Cheoah river Mt.
Hayo and Tallassee ford.
Typical and in Cade's Cove very abundant under slabs at an old sawmill near Blair's place.
Beautiful albino specimens were found in  Sugar Cove.
P. hryanti does not appear to occur in the Great Smokies.
Helicodiscus lineatus Say.
The mountain specimens are well developed but practically typical.
Specimens Tvere taken iu Cade's Cove at various points near the summit of Thunderhead at Block House on the west end of Clingmau and south of the Little Tennessee on the Tuskeegee Mountains north of Tuskeegee creek on Bob's Bald and on Mt.
Hayo.
Punctum blandianum n. sp.
Fig.
1.
Ir.
Clapp found two specimens of Punctum somewhere in Cade's Cove probably in the dependent  Sugar Cove which differ markedly from P. pygmceum.
The umbilicus is much wider than in P. pigunvum.
its width contained between 2f and 2f times in the total diam.
of the shell.
The aperture is smaller than in P. jnjgmccum.
Whorls 3 color brown surface sculpture about as in P. pjgmcvum  very fine but rather sharp strire along the growthlines and nearly obsolete spiral strire.
The spire is low conoidal about as in P. pygmrum.
Alt.
.6 diam.
1.15 mm.
Fig1It is named in honor of Thomas Bland whose excellent work on Ameiicau land shells materially advanced the science.
SUCCINEID.
Succinea obliqua Say.
A rather thin form of this species occurs near the summit of Thunderhead on leaves of herbage.
Also found on Clingman's Dome.
PLEUROOERATID.
The mountain streams aliove two or three thousand feet in the Great Smokies are apparently barren of molluscau life though full of trout.
The following occurred at lower levels.
Pleurocera aratuin Lea.
Little Tennessee river at Tallassee ford MonroeBlount counties Tenn. Ferriss.
Pleurocera hastatum Anth..
Little river in Chilliowee Gap Blount county Tenn. AValker Clapp and Pilsbry.
Goniobasis proxima Say.
Welch Bald branch of Chamber's creek Swain county Tuskeegee creek Graham county and Mission creek Hayesville Clay county X. C. Ferriss and Sargent.
Goniobasis safFordi Lea.
Chamber's creek Swain county X. C. Ferriss.
Appendix.
In The Nautilus for January 1898 Prof. W. H. Dall mentions without description a new variety of Vitrea wheatleyi under the  varietal name of V. elingmaui based upon  the large form of Z. wheatleyi referred to by Binney Manual p. 222 as collected by Hemphill at Clingman's Peak IS.
C. When on Clingman Dome our party searched diligently for this shell but without success.
On applying to Mr. Hemphill for information I learned that the  Clingman's Peak  of his label is not Clingman Dome of the charts but a local name for a peak northeast of Asheville.
Hemphill did not visit the Great Smoky range.
He writes as follows  Black Mountain Station is on the railroad east or northeast of Asheville.
From this station I walked into the mountains north about ten or twelve miles and stopped at a house near the foot of It.
Mitchell aud also near the Pinnacle of the Blue Ridge In company with two other persons I Aveut to the summit of Mt.
Mitchell and ' Chngman's Peak' as they called it and remained all night.
We carried our provisions and blankets.
It took nearly all day to get to the summit and I had but a few hours for collecting the next morning.
If my memoiy serves me faithfully I got but little material on that trip but judging by the name I suppose the shell called Z. wheatleyi cUngmani was collected at that place and time.
The specific name does not of course refer to the mountain but is to honor Thomas L. Clingman who made valuable observations on the geology and topography of North Carolina and further served that State with distinction in the U. S. Senate before the civil war.
The following diagnosis and camera lucida outlines have been supplied by Prof Dall  Vitrea clingmani Dall.
Fig.
2. 
Shell extremely thin and fragile of a translucent greenish color polished with five rather inflated whorls suture well marked the enveloping whorl rising slightly above it and not suturally appressed  sculpture in harmony with the incremental lines consisting of at first rather closeset regular wrinkles which are obsolete on the base and more distant in the adult near the last part of the last whorl  spire and base somewhat flattened periphery rounded peristome acute the upper lip but little produced beyond the basal part umbiliJf cus narrow deep nucleus very small smooth major diam Co minor diam.
5 alt.
2.5 mm  Habitat Black Mountain jS C near Clingman' s Peak Hemphill.
Types 38910 U. S. Nat.
Mus. 
This form was referred to Zonite icheatleyi by Binney from whose original specimens this diagnosis is drawn but as pointed out to me by Dr. Pilsbry the species to which our shell is most closely allied is Vitrea jietrophila.
The latter is of a waxen whitish or pale straw color verging toward brownish but 1'.
cIukjmani is distinctly greenish V. petrophila though a smaller shell has in all the specimens I have been able to examine a larger and more funicular umbilicus and the lumen of its whorls is more circular ' ' MALLOPHAGA FROM ALASKAN BIRDS.
BY VERNON L. KELLOGG AND SHINKAI I. KUWANA.
The Mallophaga described and identified in the following notes were collected by Nfr.
E. A.
Ecllhenny from birds shot by him at Point Barrow Alaska.
The determinations of the birds were made by Mr. Mcllhenny.
The two references given for each identified species are first to the original description and second to a complete list of the Mallophaga from North American birds recorded up to the time of the publication of this paper.
In this list can be found for each species all of the references to the occurrence of the parasite on North American hosts and also a complete list of all the hosts North x.merican and foreign from which the parasite is recorded.
Docophorus lari Denny Monograph Anoplur.
Brit. 1842. p. 89 pi.
V fig.
9.
Ke Hogg A List of tlie Biting Lice Mallophaga taken from Birds and Mammals of North America 1899 Proc.
U.
8.
Nat.
Mus. vol.
XXII p. 44.
From Larux sp.
Previously recorded by Kellogg from a dozen or more species of Larus from Kansas California and Alaska.
Docophorus alaskensis n. sp.
PI.
VII fig.
1.
A single male taken from a Ross's Gull Bkodostethia rosea Point Barrow Alaska.
This species closely resembles montereyi but differs in having the abdomen but little wider than head while in mordereyi the abdomen is onefourth wider than head.
It also differs markedly in shape of signature and somewhat in shape of clypeus and the lateral abdominal bands present noticeable differences.
Description of male Body length 1.6 mm. width .6 mm.
 head large dark brown thorax with dark lateral borders abdomen a little wider than head dark brown with black lateral border.
Head length .55 mm. width .5 mm.
 uncolored front of clypeus very slightly expanded flatly rounded with three short marginal hairs on each side in front of the suture trabecuLx' large reaching almost to the distal end of the second antennal segment yellowish brown antenna with segment 2 longest segments 3 and 4 shortest segment 5 a little shorter than segments 3 and 4 together dark brown with distal end of each segment paler eye flat with a long hair and a short prickle  temporal margins with two long hairs and a fine prickle occipital margin nearly straight or slightly concave signature shield shaped with produced acuminate posterior angle reaching the mandibles anterior margin very slightly concave  antennal bauds blackish brown distinct posterior ends turning diagonally inward anterior ends where interrupted by the suture turning in toward the base of the point of the suture occipital bands blackish brown narrow uniform diverging and separated from the antennal bands by a pale diagonal space  region contiguous to the eye dark.
Prothorax short broad with slightly diverging sides and rovmded posterior angles with one hair lateral marginal bands blackish brown bending inwards along posterior margin.
Metathorax broadly pentagonal with a series of seven pustulated hairs on each lateroposterior margin beginning at lateral angles  a dark lateral blotch in each lateral angle extending inward along lateroanterior sides.
Legs concolorous with body with darker markings.
Abdomen elongate ovate segments 2 to 8 with one or two hairs in posterior angles  segments 28 with broad black lateral bands which are narrower on the posterior segments segments with long transverse dark brown blotches barely separated medially by a paler line widest on segments 3 and 4 and narrowing on each successive segment transverse blotches confluent medially on segment 1 with a small medial angulated uncolored emargination on anterior margin  transverse blotches confluent medially on segment 8  a narrow darkbrown transversal line behind the series of hairs in each segment segments 25 with three to four pustulated hairs along the posterior margin on each side of the middle segments 1 7 and 8 with one pustulated hair segment 9 paler posterior margin with slight emargination and a few short hairs.
Docopliorus melanocephalas Burmeister  Handb.
d.
Ent. 1S39 II p. 16  Kellogg List 1899 p. 11.
From Stercorarius parasiticus and straggler 
Oidemia sp.
Point Barrow Alaska.
Previously recorded by Kellogg from Sterna maxima Bay of Monterey Cal. 
by Kellogg and Chapman from Stercorarius jomarinus same locality.
Recorded by European authors from three species of Sterna and two of Laru.
Docophorus ceblebracliys Nitsch  ed.
Giebel Zeitsch.
f. ges.
Naturwiss. 1861 vol.
XVII p. 528  Kellogg List 1899 p. 48.
From Nydea nydea Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Previously recorded by American and European authors from same host various localities in North America and Europe.
Docophorus cursor Xitzsch  Burmeister Handb.
d.
Eut. 1839 II p. 426 Kellogg List 1899 p. 48.
From Asio aecijntrinus Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Previously recorded by Osborn from Asio wilsonianus Ames la. and Lincoln Neb by Kellogg from JBubo virginianns Lawrence Kans.
 and by Kellogg and Chapman from Asio xnkonianus Ontario Cal.
.
Recorded by European authors from Strix bubo S. otus and S. brachijotm.
Nirmus triangulatus Xitzscla  ed.
Giebel Zeitsch.
f. ges.
Naturwiss.. 1866 vol.
XXVIII p. 378  Kellogg List 1899 p. .3.
From Stercorarius jjra.7cN Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Previously recorded by Kellogg and Chapman from Stercorarius jomarinus Bay of Monterey Cal..
Recorded by European authors from Lestrls Stercorarius and Larus.
Nirmus infectus n. sp.
PI.
VII fig.
2.
A single female taken from a Red Phalarope Crymojihilus Julicarius Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Description of female Body length 1.55 mm. width .42 mm.
 pale yellowish white dark brown head border blackish lateral abdominal bands slight indications of the abdominal blotches segments 26 with small darkbrown median markings.
Head length .37 mm. width .26 mm.
 elongate conical with narrow parabolic front  four short weak hairs along margins of forehead a short hair in front of the trabecuh antenna
short segments 4 and 5 most colored segment 3 longest segment 5 longer than segment 4 with a few short hairs on the segments trabecule short but distinct eye flat with a long hair and prickle clypeus transparent temporal margins with two long bairs and a fine prickle between the long hairs occipital margin nearly straight with a few fine prickles signature distinctly colored nearly pentagonal slightly convex in front posterior margin weakly rounding a darkbrown cross band in anterior middle of the signature anteunal bands distinct rather broad bending inward at the suture  temporal margin for a little distance behind eye with darkbrown border which narrows posteriorly temporal bands indistinct.
Prothorax short rectangular with a single hair in posterior angles blackish brown lateral borders which extend inward along anterior maigin.
Metathorax almost as wide as head with flatly rounding posterior margin with one long hair in angle and two groups of two each on each lateral half blackish brown lateral borders.
Legs concolorous with the body tibiae darker than femora.
Abdomen elongated elhptical  each segment of 17 with distinct narrow lateral blackish bands slightly expanding at front of segment and projecting across the sutures  abdominal blotches very slight  segments 26 with small darkbrown ventral median markings  two or three hairs in the posterior angles and a series of four longish hairs on the posterior margin of each of segment 26 and 8 segment 1 without hair segment 7 with two hairs segment 9 short and with slight angular posterior emarginations two hairs on the posterior margin.
Nirmus complexivus Kellogg and Chapman  Mallophaga from Birds of California in New Mallophaga III 1899 p. 78 pi.
VI fig.
4  Kellogg List 1899 p. 51.
From Trbuja eamda Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Previously recorded by Kellogg and Chapman from Trbuja m'niutilla and Calidris arenaria Pacific Grove Cal.
.
Lipeurus ferox Giebel Zeitsch.
f. ges.
Naturwiss. 1867 vol.
XXIX p. 195 Kellogg List 1899 p. 59.
From Diomcdea nigripes Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Recorded by Kellogg from Dioviedea alhatrus Bay of Monterey Cal.
 by Osborn from D. brachyura locality 
 and by European authors from D. exulans melcmophrys and brachyura.
Lipeurus confidens Kellogg Mallophaga from Biids of Panama Baja California and Alaska iu New Mallophaga III 1899 p. 'JS pi.
Ill lig.
2 Kellogg List 1899 p. 59.
From Dioviedea nigripes Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Lipeurus densus Kellogg New Mallophaga I 1896 p. 114 pi.
VII figs.
1 2 Kellogg List 1899 p. 59.
From Diomcdea nigripes Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Recorded by Kellogg from D. albatrus Bay of Monterey Cal.
 and from D. nigripes ott' Kodiak Alaska.
Lipeurus macilhennyi n. sp.
PL VII fig.
3.
A single female taken from a Blackfooted Albatross Dloiaedea nigrijjes Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
This Lipeurus is a very wellmarked species differing strongly in shape of head and body and in markings from the other Lipeuri of the Albatrosses.
Description of female Body length 3.6 mm. width .88 mm.
 whole body chestnut brown with sharply defined blackish brown marginal marking on abdomen and thorax and distinct antennal and occipital bands on head  body long widening posteriorly to fourth and fifth segments  head small and shorter than wide forehead only onethird of length of entire head clypeus broadly and flatly rounded  legs unusually large and stout.
Head length .53 mm. width .55 mm.
 decidedly short and broad for Lipjeurus clypeal front flatly rounded with six short marginal hairs on each side of the front a short hair on the margin in front of the antennae which are short trabecule small but distinct uncolored segment 2 of the antennae longer than segment 1 segment 5 slightly longer than segment 3 or 4 the anterior end of segment 3 and segments 4 and 5 pale fulvous a few short hairs on the segments eyes prominent with a distinct ocular fleck temples flatly convex with three short prickles occipital margin nearly straight without hair or prickle whole head brown antennal bands broad and blackish continuing beyond the suture temples bordered by a very narrow line of blackish brown slightly broader just below the eyes conspicuous ocular blotch blackish brown two large blackish triangular blotches on the occipital margin no uncolored clypeal region and no signature.
Prothorax very much wider than long the angles very weakly rounded segment chestnut brown with dark brown lateral border extending inward but leaving the middle portion of the segment paler posterior angles slightly projecting two blackish brown lateral blotches on the suture of pro and metathorax.
Metathorax with lateral margin slightly concave before the middle  longer than broad segment chestnut brown with large lateral marginal blackish brown blotch in front of the middle and margin behind the blotch dark  four hairs in posterior angles and set closely together in a small uncolored space posterior margin slightly concave.
Legs large stout concolorous with thorax with distinct dark border front legs short femora wide with small dark brown marginal markings second and third pair of legs long coxee of third pair unusually large and flat projecting laterally beyond the sides of metathorax femora long and broad with darkbrown border tarsi short and Inoad at middle with dark brown border  claws pale brown several scattered hairs and spines on the legs.
Abdomen widening posteriorly to segments 4 and 5 which are widest segments 6 and 7 a little narrower than segments 4 and 5 and segments 8 and 9 narrowing more rapidly first four segments with single hair in posterior angles segments 5 and 6 with two hairs and long hairs increasing in length and number on posterior segments segment 9 short and pale segments almost wholly covered by large brown lateral blotches which leave a median paler longitudinal space and distinct transverse pale sutural lines lateral marginal bands with conspicuous roundheaded blackish brown processes projecting inward segment 1 with a single pair segments 2 to 7 with two pairs none in segments 8 and 9.
Lipeurus laculatus Kellogg and Chapman Mallophaga frtm Birds of California in New Mallophaga III 1899 p. 93 pi.
VIII fig.
1  Kellogg List 1899 p. 59.
From Stercorarius sp.
Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Recorded by Kellogg and Chapman from S. jyontarinus and Putfinn'' creatopus Bay of Monterey Cal..
Lipeurus protervus Kellogg Mallophaga from Birds of Panama Baja California and Alaska in New Mallophaga III 1899 p. 31 pi.
Ill fig.
4  Kellogg List 1899 p. 63.
From Lagopus lagopus Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Recorded by Kellogg from same host Kodiak Island Alaska.
Although these specimens are from the same host and the host from the same region as in the case of the type specimens there is a noticeable and constant difference in the shape of the head between the specimens of the two lots.
The Point Barrow specimens have the clypeal margin distinctly flatter and it is in the character of this clypeal margin that specific ditlerences are most readily recognized among the Lipeuri of the Grouse.
This case simply emphasizes the fact referred to in the senior author's former Iapers on the jNEallophaga of the fiexible character of specific hues in this group of insects.
The peculiar habits of the Mallophaga producing isolation of all degrees from slight to nearly absolute renders their svstematic study an intricate but interestiujr matter.
Eurymetopus brevis Dufour Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France 1835 vol.
IV p. 671 pL xxxi fig.
3  Kellogg List 1S99 p. fJ.
From Diomedea nigripts Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Recorded by Osborn from D. exulans Albatross expedition by Kellogg from D. alhatrm Bay of Jlonterey Cal. 
and D. nigripes North Pacific Ocean off Alaska.
Recorded by European authors from D. exulans nigripes and brachyura.
Colpocephalum pingue Kellogg New Jlallophaga 1 1896 p. 114 pi.
XII fig.
5  Kellogg List 1S99 p. 72.
From Diomedea nigripes Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
Recorded by Kellogg from D. albatrus Bay of Monterey Cal..
Colpoceplialum paetulum n. sp.
PL VII fig.
4.
A single male from Arenaria interpres Pt.
Barrow Alaska.
This small Colpocephalum belongs to the group of species including ochraceum N. and Piaget's species related to ochraceum occurring on shore birds but diflers obviously from all of the hitherto described members of the group.
The long hairs arranged in transverse series on the dorsal surface of the abdomen are pustulated thus differing from ochraceum P. and umbrinum P. there are two to three transverse series in each abdominal segment of the male thus differing from spinulosum P. with but one such series there are no pustulated hairs on the head thus differing from pustulosum P. Description of female Body length 1.7 mm. width .45 mm.
 elongate with comparatively large head and legs head golden brown with darkbrown ocular blotches yellowish brown transverse blotches on the abdomen  a distinct pale submarginal longitudinal line parallel with the lateral margin of the abdomen two or more transverse rows of pustulated hairs on segments 38.
Head length 37 mm. width .45 mm.
 front rounded almost a semicircle four hairs between the middle of front and the latere anterior angle of which the last hair is the longest a very short hair in front of the projecting tip of palpus five hairs in the lateral angle in front of the ocular emargination of which the first is the longest ocular emarginations deep narrow the eyes undivided but with a distinct medial emargination  the ocular fringes prominent four long hairs in the temporal margin  occipital margin slightly concave with four long hairs color golden brown ocular blotch dark brown and narrow darkbrown border on outer temporal and occipital margin indistinct narrow brown occipital bands the darkbrown occipital margin expanded at their bases.
Prothorax broad nearly twice as wide as long with a spine and two long hairs in produced lateral angles posterior border rounded with a series of eight hairs color golden brown with darkbrown lateral border and a narrow transverse line across the segment in front of the middle.
Metathorax showing no marginal constriction at line of union of mesothorax and metathorax  sides bare posterior angles with a long hair and spine posterior margin straight with a row of long hairs color golden brown with narrow dark lateral border.
Legs large stout  femora greatly thickened and margined with golden brown  with scattered prominent hairs.
Abdomen elliptical several short hairs on the lateral margins of the segments some long hairs in the posterior angles  a row of unpustulated hairs along posterior margin of segments 12 two rows of pustulated hairs on segment 3 and three rows of pustulated hairs on segments 48 which are not strictly arranged in definite rows except the most posterior ones  color golden brown  lateral marginal blotches dark brown separated from the median transverse blotches by a pale submarginal band which is parallel with the lateral margin of the abdomen  median transverse blotches yellowish brown  last segment rounding with numerous hairs on the posterior margin two long hairs in each lateroposterior angle and a few scattered hairs color paler.
Menopon corporosum n. sp.
PI.
vil fig.
5.
Several specimens from a Red Phalarope Crimophilus fulicarius Pt.
Barrow Alaska and one specimen straggler
from a Turnstone Arenaria interpres same locality.
Ditlering markedly from the few other species of Menopon taken from the Grallatores in the very broad abdomen.
Description of female Body i.
'i mm. width .8 mm.
 small head mth obovate abdomen color light chestnut brown with darkbrown lateral abdominal borders.
Head length .29 mm. width ...
 mm.
 front rounded with shght indication of median angulation eight hairs between middie of front and the ocular region  palpi projecting by the length of their terminal segments temporal margin vith three long hairs one slightly shorter and five short ones  occipital margin concave with four hairs on the middle third color pale brown dark occipital margin and black ocular blotches.
Prothorax broad short with lateral angles much produced and bearing two spines and one long hair  posterior margin flatly convex with ten long hairs  color golden brown.
Metathorax as wide as head narrow anteriorly with rapidly diverging sides mesothorax distinctly separated by marginal constriction and dark transverse line posterior angles of mesothorax bare sides of mesoand metathorax bare  posterior angles of metathorax with four spines  posterior margin weakly convex with a series of hairs metathorax with broad transverse yellowish brown band like those of abdomen.
Legs pale brown with dark margin femora thick with rather long hairs.
Abdomen obovate posterior angles of segment with one or two strong hairs and adjacent short ones a series of hairs along posterior margin of each segment color pale at sutures black interrupted lateral bands and a yellowish brown transverse band on each segment a distinct pale and submarginal longitudinal line ninth segment rounded behind with narrow transparent margin thickly set Avith a fringe of short shaijjpointed transparent hairs.
Menopon infrequens Kellogg New Mallophaga I 1S95 p. 161 pi.
xv fig.
5  Kellogg List isgy p. 75.
From Oidemia sp.
probably a straggler from a gull.
Recorded by Kellogg irom.
Lams glaucescens Bay of Monterey Cal.
and by Kellogg and Chapman from Larus delawarensis same locality.
EXPLANATIOX OF PLATE VII.
Fig 1.
Docophorus alaskensis Kellogg and Kuwana cj'.
Fig 2.
Nirmiis infedus Kellogg and Kuwana 
.
Fig.
3.
Lipexinis macilhennyi Kellogg and Kuwana 9.
Fig.
4.
Colpocephalum 2cetulion Jellogg and K.ivana cj.
Fig.
5.
3enopoi co7oro.saj Kellogg and Kuwana 9
