NEW SOUTH AMERICAN LAND SNAILS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
For most of the specimens described the Academy is indebted to Dr. H. von Ihering whose work in developing the zoology of southern Brazil continues with unabated vigor.
Others weie collected by Mr. J.
B. Steere in Peru and submitted to me by Mr. H. E. Sargent. STREPTAXIDffi.
Scolodonta interrupta Suter.
PI.
XII figs.
6 7 8.
Size and general form much as in Zonitoides nitidiis.
Umbilicus showing all the whorls within its width contained nearly 4 times in the diameter of the shell.
Surface glassy subtranslucent white scarcely showing growthlines but with several former peristomes at unequal distances each indicated by a slightly sinuous distinct groove with a whitish streak behind it.
Whorls 5 slowly inci'easing the last decidedly wider rounded at the peripheiy and beneath sutures moderately impressed.
Aperture roundlunate about onethird of the circle excised by the preceding whorl slightly oblique peristome a little sinuous a trifle thickened within unexpanded the columellar margin a little dilated.
Alt.
3.5 greater diam.
6.5 lesser 5.6 mm.
Os Perns Prov.
Sao Paulo Brazil Dr. H. von Ihering.
A small whitish species Xo.
1186 of von Ihering' s register.
Happia Iheringi n. sp.
PI.
XII figs l 2 3.
Shell umbilicated depressed discoidal translucent coueous.
Surface glossy showing very slight fine growthwrinkles under the lens and occasional white lines indicating the positions of former peristomes.
Spire concave very narrow its width contained 3 times in that of the shell.
Whorls slightly exceeding three the last very wide rounded at the periphery convex beneath umbilicus narrow rapidly contracting its width contained 4 times in the diameter of the shell.
Aperture broadly lunate  Since this paper was in type I have received an advance copy without plates of a paper by Mr. H. Suter published in Portuguese anticipating several of the species I had described as new.
I have substituted Mr. Suter's Dames for my own.
25 deeply excised by the preceding whorl a little oblique peristome thin and simple.
Alt.
2 greater diam.
5 lesser 4.3 mm.
Os Perus Prov.
Sao Paulo Bra2il Dr. H. von Ihering.
A small nautiloid species Ko.
1185 of Dr. von Ihering' s catalogue.
He notes in liU. 
that it has a small jaAv and a radula of typically cainivorous type with the formula 13.
1.
13.
The presence of a jaw suggests the pertinence of Hapjna to the family Circinariidce rather than to Streptaxidce  but we are still profoundly ignorant of the anatomy of the South American Streptaxes.
Happia vitrina Wagner.
Cubatao Alto do Serra Sao Paulo No.
1.184 of Dr. von Ihering's register.
It is Strejitaxis tumescens of Suter.
Another Happia No.
807 of von Ihering's register is somewhat like H. vitrina Wagner but with wider less depressed spire wider umbilicus and rougher wrinkled surface diam.
15 mm. habitat Piquete Sao Paulo.
This is evidently undescribed but as the lip of the single specimen sent is broken I defer its formal characterization.
It is No.
71247 Coll.
A. N. S. P. Guppya seminlini Moricand.
Os Perns Sao Paulo No.
1183 of von Ihering's register.
Dr. von Ihering remarks in litt.
that he can see no reason for referring sejnmim to a different genus from i'us and while it is customary to separate the tropical and South American species of this form as a genus Guppya it must be acknowledged that there are absolutely no differential generic characters in the sheik between the two species mentioned above.
The typical forms of Guppya have a fleshy prominence or horn above the caudal gland which so far as I know is wanting in the North American and Paliearctic Comdiis.
However the name Conulns is preoccupied by Rafinesque and although his Conulus is a synonym of Comis Linne' still the name cannot be revived.
It is also in use in Echinodermata.
Under these circumstances it seems that Gujjna will stand as the generic name for the tropical and South American species.
A rapid survey of the South American species in the collection of the Academy shows that they are more numerous than the literature would indicate and often various forms appear under one or another of the older names.
The true seminlini has an excessively minute sculpture giving a silky lustre to the upper surface while the base is glossy with extremely fine close superficial circular striae.
A specimen measures alt.
3.7 diam.
4.6 mm whorls 5.
A smaller species or variety alt.
2 diam.
2.6 mm. from Os Perus Xo.
1182 of von Ihering's register is allied to seminlini Moric 2y''i'guayana Pfr. anguina Anc.
and martinezi Hid.
The form is much as in seminlini  whorls a trifle over 5 the last angular surface with a silky lustre above and a band of the same just below the periphery just as in  Conulus  chersinus var.
pobjgyratus Pils.
The rest of the base is glossy but under sufiicient magnification shows spiral stride in places.
This may be called var.
sicbseminlini.
ENDODONTID.
Stephanoda pleurophora Moricand.
PI.
XII figs.
4 5.
This species described from the Province of Bahia has been found by von Ihering at Sao Paulo.
As the original description and figures leave much to be desired new figures are here given.
There are 4 whorls the earlier one and onehalf smooth the rest with raised lamellar ribstrire which are sinuous and about 8 to a millimeter on the front of the last whorl becoming more crowded near the aperture.
The width of the umbilicus is contained nearly four times in the diameter of the shell.
Alt.
2.3 diam.
3 mm.
 width of umbilicus .5 mm.
The jaw and radula have been examined by Dr. von Ihering.
The former is but little arcuate composed of twenty wellunited narrow plates being like that of CharojM Endodonta etc.
The radula has the formula 15.
1.
15 the central teeth tricuspid with the middle cusps much shorter than the basal plates laterals also tricuspid the middle cusps longer than the .basal plates marginals wide multicuspid the cusps being split into some five acute denticles.
Stephanoda patagonica Suter.
PI.
XII.
figs.
9 10 11.
Shell minute depressed subdiscoidal umbilicated the width of the umbilicus contained nearly four times in the diameter of the shell.
Spire slightly convex  whorls 3f  convex separated by deep sutures the earliest Ih whorls smooth the rest finely and densely ribstriate the strise rather low straight about 20 in the space of a millimeter on the last whorl last whorl rounded at periphery and below.
Aperture roundedlunate slightly oblique.
Alt.
1.15 greater diam.
nearly 2 mm.
 width of umbilicus .5 mm.
Santa Cruz Patagonia No.
1181 of Dr. von Ihering's register.
The specimens of this very minute species were obtained from dried mud.
It is smaller than any other described form from the region.
HELICID.
Polygyratia Sargenti n. sp.
Shell planorboid flat above having a deep broadly funnelshaped or conical umbilicus below  yellowish corneous subtranslucent glossy finely striatulate and showing some faint spiral lines visible only under a strong lens above.
Whorls 7 to 8 the first one wider than the next very closely coiled and slowly widening the last whorl deviating and somewhat descending toward the aperture rounded peripherally and below flattened and impressed behind the upper lip.
Umbilicus half the width of the shell or a little less.
Aperture irregularly bilobed quite oblique peristome shghtly expanded more so below a little thickened the upper margin straightened and bearing a conic median tubercle outer margin arched basal margin nearly straight or only weakly arcuate the terminations widely separated.
Alt.
11 diam.
3 mm.
This species is alhed to P. Ortonl Crosse from which it differs in the smaller size paler color decidedly narrower and more conical umbilicus and greater height compared to the diameter.
It has one or two whorls less than specimens of P. Orioni before me from Boya Peru.
The aperture resembles that of P. Ortoni.
It is named in honor of Mr. H. E. Sargent.
Polygyratia aflBnis n. sp.
Shell planorboid flat above and somewhat concave in the middle having a broadly conic umbilicus below pale yellow very glossy faintly striatulate whorls 8 excessively closely convoluted the last whorl about four times as wide as the preceding rounded at the periphery tangentially deviating and somewhat descending near the aperture.
Aperture quite oblique deeply lunate the peristome simple and unexpanded the upper margin someAvhat straightened sloping outer and basal margins arcuate.
Alt.
4 diam.
11 mm.
 width of umbilicus 5 mm.
Peru.
CoU.
A. K S. P. No.
57671.
This species was in the collection of the Academy under the name H. stenogyra Pfr.
It is nearly allied to P. 2yolijeycla Morel.
 but is less depressed the last whorl wider and the umbilicus is much narrower.
In P. systrojjhia the last whorl seen from above is much narrower.
P. stenogyra is an allied but larger and otherwise differing species.
Polygyratia stenostrepta var.
declinata n. var.
Similar to stenostrepta but with the last whorl much more deeply deflexed anteriorly the suture terminating at the middle or lower third of the height of the whorl groove above the upper lip strongly developed basal lip well expanded.
Whorl 9f.
Alt.
4 diam.
13 mm.
Alt.
4 diam.
11 mm.
Peru.
Types No.
78140 Coll.
A. N. S. P. piph.ragmophora oresigena var.
bemardius v. Ihering n. var.
Shell similar to E. oresigena Orb.
 but smaller and lighter colored yellow or greenishyellow with three blackishbrown bands two above the periphery one wider band on the base.
Whorls 4 the last subangular at the periphery surface liratemalleate the wrinkles tangential to the last whorl of the suture.
Aperture white or purplish and banded within the lip white umbilicus partly or nearly covered.
Alt.
17 diam.
30 mm.
Alt.
16 diam.
28 mm.
Serra da Bocaina State of Sao Paulo Brazil Dr. H. v. Ihering.
The typical E. oresigena is a larger heavier and darker shell from the northeastern slope of the eastern cordillera and the province of Yungas Bolivia.
It will probably prove to be a variety of the still larger E. audoidnii Orb. from the same region.
The types of var.
hernardius are No.
71253 Coll.
A. N. S. No.
872 of Dr. von Ihering' s register.
Strophocheilus oblongus Miiller.
The geographic range of this species is greater than that of any other Strojjhocheilus.
In he north there is one insular variety alholahiaia E. A. Smith of Tobago.
In the south there are several varieties as follows Var.
erassus Albers.
Parana region Orbigny Giilich.
Var.
alba Smith.
As large as the type but pure white lip rosepink.
Pampa Ruis Bolivia Orbigny.
Var.
sanckepauli v. Iher.
and Pils.
 n. v. Very slender and elongated not compressed between face and back with narrow produced spire.
Substance of the shell reddish with light subsutural baud  cuticle persistent  surface typically costulate but later two whorls without microscopic granulation.
Aperture small half the shell's length pink within peristome brilliant rose colored.
Whorls 6.
Alt.
84 diam.
43 mm.
 alt.
of aperture 43 mm.
Botucatu Sao Paulo Brazil von Ihering.
This variety resembles S. santacruzii someAvhat.
Dr. W. H. Rush found the tyjiical form of oblongus at Fray Bentos on the Uruguay river and with it a small solid race with obtuse spire and small brilliant I'oselipped aperture.
Strophocheilus paranaguensis Pils.
and v.
Iher. n. sp.
PI.
XI Hgs.
1 2.
Shell ovate decidedly compressed dorsoventrally moderately solid the spire short obtuse.
Shell substance dull pink with a pale band below the sutures  cuticle mainly retained on the later two whorls yellow below the sutures and back of the outer lip elsetvhere yelloivishchestnut with rather numerou.s narrow obliquely longitudinal chestnut streaks.
Surface moderately shining irregularly strongly ivrinklecostulate as in S. oblongus  showing under the lens a microscopic granulation similar to that of the spire of S. oblongus which is largely or entirely lost on the last half whorl.
Nepionic whorls finely costulate as in S. oblongus.
Whorls 51 the earlier five regularly and moderately widening with slightly oblique sutures the last half whorl in a dorsal view rapidly descending its suture extremely oblique.
Aperture somewhat oblique whitish inside peristome well expanded brilliant rosecolored  columella with a moderate fold.
 The synonymy of this variety is as follows  Bonis oblongus var.
albus Miill. W. G. Binuey Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci. iii p. 115 jaw and teeth shell not described.
Bulimus oblongus var.
albolabiatus E. A. Smith Proc.
Malac.
Soc.
Lond. i p. 137 1894.
Strophocheilus oblongus var.
tobagoensis Pilsbry Man.
of Couch 2Ser.
 X p. 30 Tl.
14 f. 70 1895.
Alt.
92 cliam.
maj. 55 min.
47 mm.
 length of aperture 62 mm.
Paranagua coast of Prov.
Parana Brazil.
With the sculpture of S. ohlongus this species unites the contour of S. ovatus.
It differs from ohlongus in the streaked cuticle dorsoventral compression short spire and very oblique last suture.
It is more obese than S. fjranulosus Rang with less pronounced granulation coarse surface costulation and closer apical riblets.
Strophocheilus globosus Martens.
The locality of this species has hitherto been unknown.
It occurs subfossil at Montevideo Uruguay whence specimens have been sent by Dr. von Thering.
It will doubtless be found living in the same region.
The apical sculpture is that of the S. ohlongus group.
Some specimens are so globose as to suggest the European Helix aspersa.
BULIMULID.
Bulimulus Steerei u. sp.
Shell umbilicate and broadly rlmate ovateconic with straightsided spire and convex last whorl the hase angular around a large umhilical excavation solid and strong opaque soiled white with indistinct brown stains in most specimens and usually an indistinct whiter girdle at the periphery the apex white.
Surface lustreless finely wrinkled longitudinally and densely granose in spiral series as in B. proteiis or B. Montezuma  the granules small but strongly expressed.
Apex obtuse earlier lt whorls strongly vermiculatewrinkled the wrinkles anastomosing and largely transformed into a netted pattern.
Sutures not impressed being filled by the peripheral keel of the young shell.
AYhorls 6 the first two convex those following almost completely flat the last whorl convex without trace of a peripheral angle or carina usually ascending in front.
Aperture subvertical ovate built forward nearly to the level of the ventral convexity brown tinted within  peristome broadly expanded thickened within brown or white acute at the edge.
Columella oblique making an angle with the hasal margin its edge dilated parietal callus moderate or slight whitish.
Alt.
38 diam.
21 longest axis of aperture 20i greatest width 13 mm.
Alt.
35 diam.
20 longest axis of aperture 21 greatest width 13 mm.
Alt 36 diam.
19 longest axis of aperture 20 greatest width 12 mm.
Peru J.
B. Steere expedition.
Types in Coll.
A. N. S. No.
78144 and Coll.
University of Michigan.
The granose surface gives this species some resemblance to B. Proteus but it differs in the characters of the aperture and the flat whorls of the spire.
The young and half grown shell is evidently acutely carinate at the periphery.
In this respect B. Steerei is like B. Cora Orb.
 and other forms referred to the genus Neopetrceus  but it has the apical sculpture of a true Seidalu wholly unlike that of Neopetrceus.
The deeply excavated tract behind the columellar lip leads to a tubular umbilicus which is evidently large and open in the immature shell but is more or less constricted in most adults.
Bulimulus haematospira n. sp.
Shell rimate plllar8hajed the last If tvhorls of about equal diameter and white those above tajyering and deepening to a bloodred color thin but moderately strong opaque nearly lustreless.
Apex obtuse the earlier If whorls convex and sculptured with delicate spaced and straight longitudinal riblets next whorl or two nearly smooth with merely some series of long granules longitudinal ribs gradually appearing the ivhiie cylindrical portion of the shell being sculptured ivith strong arcuate ribs narrower than their intervals and several spiral series of long narrow crowded granules.
Whorls 8 to 9 the earlier convex the later 3 or 4 somewhat flattened.
Aperture small oval longer than wide white within  peristome simple and uuexpauded.
Length 16 diameter above the aperture 3 length of aperture 3 mm.
Length 16.3 diameter above the aperture 3 length of aperture 3 mm.
Length 15 diameter above the aperture 3.1 length of aperture 3 mm.
Locahty unknown probably Peru.
Types in Coll.
A.
2s.
S. No.
78135 and in Coll.
University of Michigan.
This beautiful little Bumuus would be considered a Perivurw from its narrow form and calcareous texture were it not for the apical sculpture which is like Kiesiotus Protoglyptus and Orthotoviium.
This shows it to be not a Peronceus but a stock of different ancestry parallel to that group such as I have shown to exist in various Bulimulid groups.
Odontostomus kuhnholtzianus Crosse.
PI.
XII fig.
12.
Ad enlarged view of the aperture is given to show the arrangement of teeth.
The specimen figured is from Montevideo collected by J. Arechaveleta Director of the National Museum of Montevideo No.
1015 of Dr. von Iheriug's register 78037 Coll.
A. N. S. P..
HELIOINID.
Helicina iguapensis n. sp Shell depressed the diameter about twice the altitude lensshaped acutely keeled  very pale yellow the apex and basal callus white.
Surface lightly striate irregulai'ly grooved and finely striate spirally this sculpture weaker on the last whorl finer beneath.
Spire low conic whorls 5 the first smooth the last slighty convex becoming concave above the acute peripheral keel.
Base evenly convex.
Aperture oblique subtriangular white within peristome rather broadly reflexed white angular at the terminatioTi of the peripheral keel the upper margin nearly straight basal margin moderately arcuate columella very short vertical produced below in a jrojeding angle.
Callus thin white.
Alt.
8.5 diam.
16 mm.
Operculum scarlet outside fading to whitish at the nucleus lightly striate irregularly triangular the nucleus marginal nuclear edge straight with reflexed scarlet margin.
Iguape S. Paulo Brazil.
Type from Dr. H. von Ihering No.
78028 Coll.
A. N. S. P. 940 v. Ihering's register.
This species resembles H. carinata Orb angulata Sowb. and gonochila Pfr.
in the salient angle or tooth in which the columella terminates below  but it is a far larger and more depressed shell.
In general form it is almost exactly like JET.
caracolla Moric which differs in completely lacking any trace of an angle at the base of the columella.
The sculpture above seems to consist of rather low flat lira over which much finer spiral strise run.
This is best developed on the next to the last whorl.
Helicina inaequistriata nsp.
Shell thin subglobosedepressed rather bluntly carinated varying from a dull reddish color to pale sulphur yellow.
Surface dull sculptured with fine growth lines and numerous unequal low and flattened spiral line with a sculpture of fine spiral strife over them giving the appearance of groups or fascicles of more prominent alternating with bands of less prominent spiral striae.
Spire low conic Avhorls ih slightly convex the last decidedly angular at the periphery convex not descending anteriorly.
Aperture subtriangular the outer angle rounded peristome white narrowly subreflexed its face thickened in old specimens  upper margin but slightly arcuate basal margin strongly arched forming a right angle with the straight and vertical columella the base of which is outwardly angular.
Basal callus rather small whitish.
Alt.
7 diam.
9i mm.
Raiz da Serra Sao Panlo.
Brazil.
Types from Dr. H. von Ihering No.
78038 Coll.
A. N. S. 938 von Ihering's register.
Appendix Description of a New Stkophocheilus by Dr. H. von Ihering.
Strophocheilus Pilsbryi n. sp.
PL XI fig.
4.
Shell perforate oblong moderately solid chestnut brown with a blackish line followed by an illdefined yellow band below the suture irregularly plicatulate and beautifully granose microscopically throughout the granulation barely 'isible to the naked eye and arranged in regular spiral series spire thick obtuse.
Yhorls 5 the first one planorboid the next tumid above last whorl oval convex its later half more descending shortly ascending at the aperture.
Aperture ovate bluish within peristome reflexed red columella oblique and straight above concave below its margin dilated above almost closing the narrow perforation.
Length 48 diam.
24 mm.
 aperture 25 mm.
long.
Piquete SeiTa da Mautigueira Sao Paulo Brazil.
This species seems to be allied to S. rhodocheibi Reeve but has not the colorpattern or columellar fold of that species the aperture is smaller and the surface irregularly plicatulate as well as granulous.
