OBSERVATIONS UPON THE ANATOMY OF HYLOBATES LEUCISCUS AND CHIROMYS MADAGASCARIENSIS.
BY DR. HENRY C. CHAPMAN.
HyLOBATES LEUCISCUS.
An the opportunity of dissecting a gibbon is comparatively rare it is hoped that a brief account of the results of the dissection of the young individual that recently died at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden may prove acceptable to the Academy.
The gibbons of which there are several species are found as well known over a considerable area of Eastern Asia and the falay Archipelago.
Together with the gorilla chimpanzee and orang they constitute the group of Anthropomorpha or anthropoid apes of Avhich they are the least anthropoid in their nature resembling man more particularly in the character of the thorax.
The gibbons are the smallest of the anthropoids rarely attaining a height of more than three feet.
The head is small and the body and limbs are slender.
Thev are the only anthropoids that exhibit ischial callosities.
The most striking peculiarity of the animal externally is the length of the upper extremities the fingers touching the ground wdien standing erect which it often does.
While they can run very rapidly putting the sole of the foot flat upon the ground which they often do the genus is naturally arboreal in its habit passing quickly from bough to bough in the forests which it inhabits the movements being executed by means of its long arras with marvelous accuracy and force twenty feet and more being covered at one bound.
Notwithstanding the small size of the gibbons all observers agree as to the great volume of their voice the cry of the Siamang Hylobates syndactijlus being heard in its native woods miles away its vocal sound beiug more powerful than that of any human singer.
It may be also mentioned in this connection that the gibbon is the only mammal that can be really said to sing.
The Wouwoo Hylohates agilis has been heard to emit at the London Zoological Garden the rising and falling scale of the semitones of the J octave. The gibbon presented to the Academy by the Philadelphia Zoological Society and upon the dissection of which this communication is based is that known to zoologists according to Mr. Arthur E. Brown Secretary of the Society as Hyhhates lenciscus the silvery gibbon.
As the anatomy of the gibbons is more or less well known attention will only be directed to those parts of the economy of the animal under consideration which differ more particularly from those of man and the remaining anthropoids.
Muscular System.
 Our gibbon a young male measured from the crown of the head to the heel 21.75 inches 55 centimeters.
The length of the upper extremity from the shoulder to the tip of the middle finger was 17 inches 43 centimeters that of the lower extremity from the hip to the tip of the middle toe only 13.25 inches 33.5 centimeters.
The muscles of the face were undifferentiated.
In the cervical region the levator claviculte was obser'ed extending as in the other anthropoids from the transverse .
process of the atlas to the acromial end of the clavicle.
The biceps arose by two heads both however being humeral in origin the small head arising from the lesser tubercle of the humerus instead of from the coracoid process as in man.
The latissimo condyloideus extended to the condyle of the humerus not merely to the centre of the humerus as stated by Hartmann. The brachialis anticus was well developed though its presence was not noted in the gibbon described by Bischoff. The pronator radii teres arose by one head.
There was nothing especially noticeable about the flexors sublimis and profundus digitorum.
The slip from the tendon of the flexor profundus supplying the ring finger split however into two tendons one of which that ordinarily present perforating the tendon of the sublimis the other the accessory one being inserted into the first phalanx of the index finger.
The latter disposition was probably an abnormal one.
The part of the flexor profundus supphang the thumb was so completely separated from the rest of the muscle that it might almost be regarded as a distinct flexor longus pollicis as is the case in man. '
C. L. Martin A General Introduction to the Natural History of Mammiferous Animals etc. 1841.
Owen The Anatomy of Vertebrates Vol.
Ill p. 600.
Anthropoid Apes p. 164. '
Beitrage zur Anatomie des Hylobates leuciscus.
All of the muscles of the thumb  viz. the abductor opponeas flexor and adductor poUicis  were present and well developed.
In addition to the muscles of the little finger usually present the abductor flexor and opponens it was also supplied by a distinct extensor proprius minimi digit i.
There was nothing particularly noticeable about the muscles of the dorsal surface of the upper extremity.
The extensor indices split into three tendons which supjlied the ring middle and index fingers.
The extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis gave off two tendons one of which passed to the metacarpal bone the other to the trapezium as is.
of ten the case in man and monkeys.
The extensor primi internodii pollicis was absent the extensor secuudi was so inserted however as to act on both the first and the second phalanges of the pollex.
The luinbricales were well developed.
Of the contiatentes digitorum or the little muscles passing from the deep fascia over the metacarpal bones to the digits two were observed those supplying the second and fifth digits.
The palmar and dorsal interossei were much developed indeed remarkably so considering the size of the hand.
The nerves of the upper extremity were exceedingly well developed the median ulnar and radial especially so.
There vas nothing especially to be noted about the muscles of the hip and thigh.
The soleus was observed to arise from the fibula alone and not as in man from both fibula and tibia.
The plantaris peroneus tertius and flexor accessorius were absent.
The flexor longus hallucis gives a strong tendon to the big toe and three perforating tendons to the second third and fourth toes with lumbricales for the third and fourth toes only.
The flexor longus digitorum contributes to the formation of the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis and supplies the third fourth and little toes the tendons supplying the third and fourth toes only being perforated by the two corresponding tendons of the flexor longus hallucis.
The flexor brevis digitorum appears to supply the second toe only it is perforated by the corresponding tendon of the flexor longus hallucis.
The tendon to the fifth toe corresponding functionally to that of the flexor brevis digitorum in man appears when present to be derived from the flexor lougus digitorum as well as the deeper tendon from the same nuiscle already referred to.
The muscles of the big and little toe usually present were noticed.
Of the contratentes digitorum that supplying the little toe was the only one observed.
The interossei were not as well deveoied in the foot as in the hand.
The Larynx.
 In accord with what has just been 
aid as to the voice being so powerful in the gibbon one would naturally expect to find the larynx large and well developed Avith its lateral ventricles dilated into enormous air sacs as seen in the gorilla chimpanzee and orang or some modification of the hyoid apparatus such as occurs in the South American Howler Mycetes alouetta.
As a matter of fact however in our gibbon the larynx was not unusually large nor were the vocal membranes or ventricles specially well developed.
Not a trace of a laryngeal sac was to be seen either as sacs communicating with the larynx by the ventricles or by openings in the thyrohyoid membrane as is said to be the case in the Siamaug.
 Indeed it is only in the latter species of gibbon that a large air .sac has been found the sac in this species being globular and to be regarded morphologically as a development of the thyroid hyoid membrane.
It must be admitted that the manner in which the loud voice is produced in the gibbons is not understood.
That a laryngeal sac exerts but little influence in this respect is shown by the fact that the voice of the gibbon in which the sac is absent is as loud as in that in Avhich it is present.
Indeed beyond the statement that a laryngeal sac acts as a resonator there is little to be said as to the function even of the enormous sacs present in the remaining anthropoids.
Origin of the Great Blood Vessels.
 The manner in which the great blood vessels are given off from the aorta in the gibbon difiers from that in man.
In the gibbon the aorta gives off an innominate and a left subclavian artery the innominate in turn giving rise to the right subclavian and the two common carotid arteries the disposition being similar to that observed in the orang.
Alimentary Canal.
 There was nothing especially remarkable in the anatomy of the alimentary canal.
The salivary glands were large and the rugae of the palate were very prominent.
The absence of a uvula was noted.
The stomach Avas rather of a globular form and resembled the human stomach much more than that of the  Huxley Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals p. 412.
27 orang which is much elongated.
Valvulte couuiventes were absent  the patches of Peyer were however well developed.
The urogenital apparatus did not present any remarkable peculiarity.
The kidney exhibited as in the case of the orang only one papilla.
There was one pancreatic duct and it opened into the duodenum close to that of the hepatic duct.
The gall bladder was large and elongated which was possibly due to the presence of gall stones.
The vermiform appendix was present measuring three centimeters 1 inches but was both relatively and absolutely smaller than that of other anthropoids.
The Brain.
 The brain in the present individual as in the gibbons generally was small.
Unlike that of the Siamang however the posterior lobes of the cerebrum covered completely the cerebellum as was also the case in the brain of the silvery gibbon described and figured by Bischoff. There was nothing particularly noticeable about the gyri and sulci the principal ones being identified.
It should be mentioned however that the calcarine fissure passed continuously into the hippocampal fissure the gyrus fornicatus being separated therefore fxom the hippocampal gyrus a disposition which according to Ecker does not obtain in the genus Hijlobates.
The parietooccipital fissure did not reach the calcarine the two fissures being separated by the convolution known as the  deuxieme plis de passage interne of Gratiolet or the  untere innere sheitelbogenwindung  of BischofT.
The ventricle was well developed and contained the hippocampus minor and what appeared to be the remains of the eminentia collateralis.
The brain of the gibbon resembles in some respect that of the Semnop'dhecus and in others that of the orang.
Indeed so much so is this the case that it may be regarded as bridging over to a considerable extent the gap in cerebral development between the two.
The study of the organization of the gibbon a resume of which has just been given leads to the conclusion long since reached by the author that the proposition advanced by the late Prof Huxley that the difterence between man and the anthropoids is less than that between the anihropoids and the remaining Simia except as regards the skeleton is not true.
The gibbon for exam Flower Phil.
Trans. 1862 I p. 185.
 Op.
cit. S. 76.
 The Cerebral Convolutions of Man.
Translated by K. T. Edes.
M.D.. p. 76. pie as regards the general character of the brain in the piesence and absence of certain muscles in the origin of the great bloodvessels and in other respects resembles the lower Simise more than it does man.
Further the association of the four anthropoids in one group Anthropomorpha as contrasted with the remaining Catarrhine or Cynomorpha is an artificial not a natural one since there is no evidence to show that the anthropoids have descended from a common ancestor or are directly related genetically to each other.
On the contrary it is much more probable that each anthropoid has descended from some highly specialized Catarrhine  the gorilla for example from some Cynocephalus Macacque or like form the gibbon from a Semnopithecoid one and so on the gibbon and orang being closely related on the one hand the chimpanzee and gorilla on the other.
Chiromys madagascariensis.
The Aye Aye so called on account of the natives uttering that exclamation the first time the animal was seen was discovered by Sounerat in the island of Madagascar about the year 1785 and was first described and figured by that naturalist.'
For a long time after its discovery considerable diflference of oiiuion prevailed among systematists as to its exact zoological position.
According to Sonnerat the animal resembled a squirrel in some respects in others a lemur.
Buffou regarded it as a squirrel Cuvier as a squirrel with quadrumanous afliuities Schreber as a lemur etc.
Indeed it was not until the year 1863 nearly a century after it was discovered that the Aye Aye was shown conclusively by the researches of the late Prof. Owen to be essentially in its nature a lemur.
As our knowledge of the organization of the Aye Aye is somewhat limited the only works treating of its anatomy so far as is known to the author being the monograph of Owen just cited and the later supplementary account of Peters it is hoped that the following observations will not be regarded as superfluous.
The individual upon whose dissection the present communication is  Voyage aux Fades des Orientales et a La Chine.
Paris.
1806.
Tome IV p. 121.
Plate 92.
On the Aye Aye Trans of the Zoological Society.
Loudon Vol.
V 1866.
 Ueber die Sdugethiergattung Chiromys.
Abhdlg.
d. Berliu.
Akad. 1865.
420 1900. based though preserved in alcohol for several months was in fairly good condition.
It was a female and measured from crown of head to the heel 45 centimeters 18 inches.
The length of the upper extremity from shoulder to tip of middle finger measured 22.5 centimeters 9 inches that of the lower extremity from hip to tip of middle toe 30 centimeters 12 inches.
Nervous System.
 Owing to the softened conditifn of the brain necessitating its removal enclosed in the dura mater and to the subsequent unsuccessful hardening of the same we have but little Fis1.
Fiff.
2. to say about it other than that in the general configuration in the presence of a welldeveloped corpus callosum in the simple character and paucity of fissures and in the almost entire exposure of the eerebellura the posterior lobes of the cerebrum being so little developed it resembled that described aud figured by Owen.
As the nerves of the extremities are not described by either Owen or Peters it should be mentioned that as regards the distribution of the nerves to the hand it was observed that while the thumb and index finger were supplied by the median nerve and the little and ring fingers by the ulnar nerve the middle long slender finger was supplied by two branches which came from somewhat of a plexus formed through the union of the median and ulnar nerves as shown in Fig.
2.
It need hardly be mentioned that such a disposition is an unusual one the little finger and ulnar side of the ring finger being supplied in fivefingered animals by the ulnar nerve the radial side of the ring and remaining fingers and thumb by the median nerve.
We shall see however presently that the middle slender finger is not only supplied by nerves derived from both the median and ulnar nerves but by a greater number of muscles than ordinary.
Such disposition appears to be correlated with the function of the long middle finger which as is well known the Aye Aye makes use of in searching for its food inserting it into pieces of wood containing the grubs upon which the animal preferably feeds.
That the view just offered as accounting for the rich nervous and muscular supply of the middle finger is the correct one is further shown by the fact that in the case of the foot the big toe second middle and tibial side of fourth toe are supplied by the internal plantar nerve and the little toe and fibular side of the fourth toe by the external plantar nerve Fig.
1.
Muscular System.
 As the muscular system of the xVye Aye has been described with considerable detail by Prof. Oweu attention will be directed more particularly to such muscles as were not noticed by that anatomist or which diftered in regard to their disposition.
Of the muscles of the cervical region and upper extremity two were observed not mentioned by Owen.
They are especially interesting as being found in all lemurs and monkeys from the Aje Aye to the gorilla.
These are the elevator clavicular extending from the transverse process of the atlas to the acromial end of the clavicle and the latissimo condyloideus passing from the latis simus dorsi to the internal condyle of the humerus.
The three short muscles ordinarily supplying the little finger and the four short muscles supplying the thumb were all well developed.
The tendon o' the flexor longus pollicis came oflf however from the tendon of the flexor profundus digitorum the muscular belly of the pollicis being entirely undifferentiated from that of the profundus.
The four tendons of the sublimis were perforated as usual by the four tendons of the profundus four lumbricales being given off by the latter as was observed by Owen instead of three the usual number.
The interossei were well developed.
The extensor muscles of the hand were four in number  an extensor communis digitorum supplying the four fingers a second extensor situated beneath the communis supplying the ring and middle fingers an extensor indicis supplying the index and middle fingers and an extensor minimi digiti supplying the little and ring fingers.
It will be observed therefore that the middle finger is supplied by three distinct muscles an unusual number the significance of which has been already referred to.
In addition to the four extensor muscles just mentioned there were present two long extensors of the thumb an extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis and an extensor secundi internodii pollicis.
Regai'ding the muscles of the lower extremity and more especially of those of the leg and foot it may be mentioned that the tibialis anticus the extensor proprius hallucis the extensor longus and brevis digitorum were well developed.
In addition to the peroneus longus and brevis two other peronei muscles were observed not noticed by Owen viz. a 'peroneus quarti digiti and a peroneus quinti digiti the two muscles being inserted into the terminal phalanges of the fourth and fifth toes respectively.
The two short muscles of the little toe and the four short muscles of the big toe were well developed.
No trace was found however of the extensor brevis hallucis described and figured by Owen.
The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis enteis largely into the formation of that of tlie tendon of the longus digitorum the former supplying more particularly the big toe and the second and fifth toes the latter the third and fourth toes.
The only portion of the flexor brevis digitorum observed arising from the calcaneum was the muscular slip supplying the fifth toe the three remaining slips coming off from the conjoined tendons of the longus digitorum and longus hallucis.
All four tendons of the flexor sublimis were perforated by the tendons of tiie longus hallucis and longus digitorum.
Four lumbricales were present as in.
the case of the hand and the interossei were equally well developed.
The Viscera.
 There was nothing especially noteworthy regarding the alimentary canal and its appendages other than what have already been described by Owen and Peters.
The caput coli however at least in the specimen dissected by the writer exhibited a decided constriction into two parts a proximate portion corresponding to the csecum and a terminal one much narrower about 2.5 centimeters 1 inch in length resembling very closely the vermiform appendix of man and the anthropoids.
The great blood vessels arose from the aorta as described by Peters the right subclavian and the trunk of the common carotids springing from an innominate the left subclavian separately from the aorta.
No trace of a laryngeal pouch such as that descriled by Owen was observed its absence being perhaps due to the fact that the animal was a female.
The urogenital apparatus agreed essentially in its structure with that described by Peters the urethra passing into the vagina through the anterior wall of the latter instead of perforating the clitoris as is usually the case in lemurs.
The clitoris and external orifice of the vagina were concealed externally by a circular fold of integument.
It is an interesting fact that while the imperforate condition of the clitoris in Chiromys is exceptional among the lemurs on the other hand the perforated condition of the clitoris as in Capromys is exceptional among the Rodentia the urethra passing in the latter into the vagina.
According to many systematists the lemurs including Chiromys together with the Simiada and man are classed together as Primates according to others the lemurs are separated from the Simiadfe and man and classed apart as half apes or Prosimii and are regarded as being the ancestors of the Simiadte Insectivora Cheiroptera and Rodentia.
If the latter view be adopted then the slender LoHs may be regarded as the ancestor of the SimiadjB Tarsiiis of the Insectivora Galeopitheeus of the Cheiroptera and Chiromys of the Rodentia the rodent afiinities of Chiromys being shown not only by its general resemblance to a squirrel and the form of its incisor teeth but by the character of its alimentary canal and urogenital apparatus.
June 5.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Sixteen persons present.
A paper entitled Notes on Hyacinth Roots by Ida A. Keller was presented for publication.
A Collapsing Crater.
 Mr. Edw.
Goldsmith referred to his communication on a volcanic crater of the Mesozoic age near Pottstown a locality within easy reach by trolley cars.
In fact it is a popular resort because of the peculiar formations occurring there.
Several years ago the crater in question had a perfect cauldronlike contour within but this has changed in such a way as to indicate its gradual collapse.
The southern and western sides apparently remain intact but all of the northern and part of the eastern sides show the recks to have moved toward the centre of the crater.
The huge rocks which have moved inward were two years ago in a vertical position lut were cracked straight down to the bottm of the crater prolally from the main mass in situ.
These cracks at that time presented an opening of an inch more or less but now since their movement toward ihe centre they have become so large that a man can crawl through the gap.
Three masses standing on edge and weighing in the aggregate one huudred tous or more have taken part in the movement.
As the iuner contour remains there is evidence of the actual former existence of a crater although the clear cauldronlike form is changed.
When further movement takes place it will entirely disappear leaving an irregular pile of rocks grouped in the greatest disorder upon which the weather will work its smoothing effects just as is now observable in a number of places on the same hill ail of which are as he had formerly demoustrated collapsed craters.
That they were craters is clearly evidenced by the existence of the enormous fragments of basaltic columns by the taohvlite which is an opaque obsidian by the four lavaHows forming the terraces and by the amygdaloidal rocks.
The last crater in that locality is now working toward its own annihilation.
1900.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
425 June 12.
Chaeles Schaeffer M.D.
 in the Chair.
Thirteen persons present.
A paper entitled ' Note on the Australian Pupidse by Henry A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
June 19.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chaii.
Sixteen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   A New Crayfish from New Mexico by T. D. A. Cockerell and Wilmatte Porter. '
' The Structure of the Diatom Girdle  by T. C. Palmer and F. J. Keeley.
June 26.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Seventeen persons present.
A pajDer entitled ' ' On the Osteology of Vulpes raacrotis ' ' by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt was ordered to be published in the Journal.
The following were ordered to be printed 426 1900.
NOTE ON THE AUSTRALIAN PUPIDl.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
To ascertain the geographic range of the genus Bifidaria I was led to examine the Australian species in the collection of the Academy and as no author seems to have indicated their place in the system it may be as well to iut the facts on record.
Four genera of the family Pupidce are represented of which one Cylindrovertilla has been found in Australia and New Caledonia only the others being widely distributed.
Fig.
1.
Fig.
2.
Fis.
Fig.
4.
Fig.
1.
Pupoidea paeificus Pfr.
 Facing Isl. Queensland.
Fig.
2.
Pupa ficnlnea Tate Palm creek central Australia.
Fig.
3.
CylindrotertUln kinqi Cox Sydney N.S.W.
Fig.
4.
Bifidaria strangei Pfr.
Narrabri N. S.Wales.
Key to Genera.
Aperture toothless except for a nodule angle lamella usually developed at the posterior angle peristome expanded or reflexed shell brown tapering above 5iuH.ishaped PUPOIDES tig.
1.
1900.
427 a  Aperture with a parietal and a coluinellar lamella and one or two palatal folds or toothless  form cylindric blunt at the ends the whorls narrow hardly oblique Pupa fig.
2.
a  Angle lamella developed no parietal a small columellar lamella and upper palatal fold.
Sinistral and minute Cylindeovertilla fig 3.
a.
 Angle lamella and a more immersed parietal lamella developed the two converging and usually more or less united a columellar lamella and two or three palatal folds generally present.
Shell whitish teeth white Bifidaria fig.
4.
Lamella Supracolumellar Columellar Subcolumellar  Suprapalatal Upper palatal W J J  1   Interpalatal y j ' Lower palatal ' Infrapalatal Fig.
5.
Xomenclature of lamellae and folds.
The nomenclature of folds is indicated in Fig.
5.
The palatals may be identified when the normal number of three is reduced by remembering that the lower palatal fold is about equidistant from the columellar and parietal lamella and straight lines connecting these three teeth form an approximately equilateral triangle.
There are sometimes accessory folds within the lip designated infrapalatal interpalatal or suprapalatal according to their positions.
I have confined my observations on Australian species to those in the collection of the Academy referring merely to Dr. Cox's Monograph Mr. Smith's paper on Western Australian shells and Prof. Tate's report on the Horn Expedition for confirmation of the identifications.
A wider reference to the literature would probably increase the nuniber of species but is unnecessary for my present purpose.
Genus PUPOIDES Pfr. 1854.
Besides its distribution in the two Americas and Antilles this genus is represented in southern Asia P. ccenopietus P. lardeus in tropical Africa P. senegalensii and in Australia where it is represented by P. pacifieus Pfr.
 P. adelaidce A. and A.  P. contrarlm Smith P. isehnus Tate and I suppose P. lepidulus A. and A.
described as Chondrula and P. myoporince Tate the latter two not known to me by specimens.
Some Australian and African species are sinistral and at least one P. contrarius Smith either sinistral or dextral.
Prof. Tate's P. ischnus is perhaps the most aberrant of the Australian group lut they all seem closely allied.
Genus PUPA Drap. 1801.
The Australian species exhibit the common characters of this genus which though wanting in Polynesia and South America is pretty generally distributed elsewhere.
Even when toothless like the original type of P. miiscontm the contour of the shell readily distinguishes it from Pupoides.
Generally a pai'ietal and a columellar lamella and the lower palatal fold are developed frequently the upper palatal also in Australian forms.
Pupa australis A. and A. P. ficulnea Tate and P. liucolnieims Cox belong here and also judging from description and figure P nelsoni Cox.
Genus CYLINDROVERTILLA Boettgcr 1881.
The arrangement of folds is quite peculiar in this group which was founded for the New Caledonian P. Jabreami Crosse.
The single lamella upon the parietal wall is not the usual parietal lamella but the supraparietal or angle lamella  and the larger denticle on the palatal side is apparently tiie upper palatal fold rather than the usually persistent lower palatal.
C. hlmjl Cox the only Australian species is shorter more oval than fabreaiia but both species are alike in being sinistral and quite minute.
The dentition varies somewhat a lower palatal fold often being developed.
Genus BIFIDARIA Sterkl 1889.
The converging often united angle and parietal lamellae and the whitish shell with white teeth are characteristic.
The extraAustralian distribution of the genus is wide though less extended than that of Pupa or Pupoides.
In America the greatest modifications as well as most species occur  but in eastern Asia from Japan to India it occurs and B. pediculus or slight modifications thereof are widely spread in Polynesia and the East Indies.
The Australian group of species is closely allied to B. pediculus and falls into the typical section of Bifidaria.
Some American forms such as B. jyi'ototypus Pilsbry and B. dalliana Sterki are very similar though in most other American as well as the Chinese forms of the typical section of Bifidaria the angle lamella and parietal lamella are more intimately united forming a single sinuous bifid or emarginate lamella.
But this varies by easy stages from complete union to separation of the lamellae.
Some of the Australian species like B. larapinta Tate and B. rossiteri Braz. have the form of the American B. jjrocera group with teeth like B. prototypus while others are rather more conic.
B. strangei Pfr.
is usually sinistral but not aberrant in dentition.
In B. mooreana Smith the angle lamella is much reduced or even absent a reduction parallel to what has taken place in the American B. pilshryana and B. pentodon.
I have not seen P. ivallabyensis Smith P. macdonneUi Braz  P. margareke Cox and P. moretonensis Cox species probably referable to Bifidaria the latter two certainly belonging there.
The occasional presence of an infraparietal lamella in some Australian species is unlike most of the Americans in which this tooth is very rarely developed.
I do not regard Bifidaria as related to the Polynesian groups of which P. lyrata Gld.
and P. tantilla Gld.
are representatives further than by the general bond of common ancestry which connects Bifidaria Hypselostoma Torquilla Faxila and these Polynesian forms.
Summary.
 Three of the four Australian genera of Pupidxe are common to that continent and IndoChina extending thence to Africa and America and one Pujm' to Europe.
One genus Bifidaria is represented also in Polynesia by the widely spread species pediculus.
' The only local group is CylindroveHiUa which occurs elsewhere in New Caledonia.
There is no Antarctic type in the Piqndce.
So far as their Australian distribution is concerned the Pupidce agree with the Epiphallogonous Helices and probably reached Australia by the same land connection and at the same time from the northward.
 Probably the range of B. pedicnlus has been greatly extended by human agency.
