A NEW WEASEL FROM WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA.
BY SAMUEL N RHOADS.
One of the most unlookedfor results of recent systematic field study of smaller mammals inhabiting the settled and populous areas of th Eastern States is the discovery of a small weasel in the regions contiguous to the city of Pittsburgh.
Fortunately three specimens have been secured each representing a phase of pelage characteristic of the seasonal moult.
This weasel is allied to the minute Arctic and Canadian Putorius rixosus Bangs being somewhat larger than rixosus and less than half the size of P. cieognani the smallest species hitherto recorded from the Middle States.
It may be diagnosed as follows Putorius allegheniensis sp.
nov. Allegheny Weasel.
Type 0.
6195 adult Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Captured by Robert Hawkins near Beallsville Washington county.
Pa. about the year 1885 or 1886.
Description of the Type.
 In size and color it resembles Putorius rixosus Bangs from the Saskatchewan B.
A. but larger darker and more thinly furred.
Skull broader and flatter with interorbital space high tumid and constricted posteriorly.
No supraorbital ridges.
Color summer pelage.
 Upper parts walnutbrown abruptly separated from the pure white of under parts the line of demarcation running from nasal pad along border of upper lip through base of whiskers just below base of ear along median lateral line of neck to anterior base of shoulder thence down anterior profile of foreleg to elbow rising thence along posterior profile of leg to and along median lateral body line to flank thence to heel and posterior thigh as on foreleg rising and encircling anal region to lower base of tail.
Tail colored like back with some scatteiing white hairs at tip extreme tip apparently missing.
Forefeet and 1 Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
WasJm. 1896 p. 21. lower foreleg white hind feet while only on toes atid inside border.
Whiskers mixed brown and white.
The color areas occupied respectively by brown and white are almost exactly divided in equal parts.
Compared with the type of rixosus and another summer specimen from Moose Factory Hudson Bay the type of alleg heniensis is much darker and duller hued.
MeasuremenU of type a wellmounted specimen but undoubtedly stretched.
 Total length 199' tail without hairs of tip 19 hind foot 20.
Skull Basilar length 29 zygomatic width 15.3 mastoid width 14 interorbital constriction 6 greatest mandibular length 16.5.
Descrijytion of two other specimens.
 Xo.
4279 Coll.
of S. X. Rhoads young adult sex undetermined cotype in late winter early pelage collected by aforesaid R. Hawkins near Beallsville Washington county Pa. about the year 1885 or 1886.
Color.
 Everywhere pure white except on head where brown summer fur is appearing also about 15 dark brown and blackish hairs at tip of tail.
Measurements specimen is a mummy preserved without skinning having been eviscerated poisoned and wired to a stand erect on its haunches.
Ou this account its tail and body measurements are of real value after allowing an increase of five per cent for shrinkage of intervertebral tissue.
 Total length 145 tail vertebrie 22 hind foot 20.
Skull Basilar length 28 zygomatic width 14.7 greatest mandibular length 15.8.
No.
'  adult female.
Coll.
of the Carnegie Museum collected by William Seager near Leetsdale Allegheny county Pa. April 25 1898.
This interesting specimen is in the shape of a cabinet skin with anterior half of skull attached to lips and without sex mark or measurements on label.
1 have determined its sex by the series of teats evidently those of a female having nursed young the previous season.
The skull and teeth indicate full maturity.
The jelage is changing from winter to summer garb this change appearing to have but recently begun.
Color.
 White except an irregular mottled stripe of brown well defined on head between nose eyes and ears narrowing along neck and back with wider areas at shoulders and hips and disappearing on liiud rump.
Tail white with about 20 brownblack ' All measurements iu millimeters.
hairs at tip almost concealed by surrounding white hairs.
A faint mottling of brown is appearing on all four legs and the upper hind feet.
Measurements skin stretched.
 Total length 175 tail 22 hind foot 20.
The two Beallsville specimens were kindly loaned to me October 27 1899 by Mr. Jacob Nease of Washington Pa. in response to a circular widely distributed in the State requesting information concerning certain rare mammals.
The size of these tiny weasels so different from anything to be expected from that region raised the question of their being a genuine Pennsylvania product and I wrote Mr. Xease for particulars.
In answer Mr. James S. Nease who conducted the entire correspondence on the subject for his father Jacob Nease to whom the specimens belonged sent me the following letter   Beallsville Pa. 1161899.
Mr. Jas.
S. Nease ' ' Washington Pa.  Dear Sir   In reply to your letter of 2d inst. I have consulted father in regard to the weasels which he sent your father to have stuffed.
They were caught under deadfalls set for skunks and of course were wild as any weasel.
Father remembers well of catching them and sending them up and got one or two he did not send but has not seen any since then some ten or fifteen years ago if memory serves him right.
They were caught when the bounty was on hawks and owls. Very truly  J. W.
Hawkins.
While there seemed to be no question as to the statements of the gentlemen above mentioned the publication of them was deferred nearly a year when I was unexpectedly confronted with the specimen in the collection of the Carnegie Museum.
As it had been taken along the Ohio river only a few miles below Pittsburgh by a resident collector regularly employed by the Museum it was accepted as conclusive evidence that these weasels are indigenous and living in those parts.
 This bounty act was passed in May 1885 and repealed about eighteen months later.
Regarding the affinity of allegheniensis with rixosiis it mav be stated that the nearest localities from which the latter has been recorded are Moose Factory Ontario and Pembina Minnesota the latter being the specimen mentioned by Prof. Baird under  Pidor ius pusillm Dekny  in the Pacific R. R. Reports.
It will be seen that there is an immense stretch of irritory between these places and Pittsburgh besides the great difference in the faunal position of the localities.
That the habitat of these weasels shall prove to be continuous through the Appalachian system from Ontario southward is not impossible but that specimens from the intermediate country have as yet escaped notice is indeed strange.
The facts now known to us as to the differences between rixosvs and its southern ally in size cranial proportions and color are sufficient to indicate specific values.
It is singular that all the known specimens of rixosus and allegheniensld appear to be females though in every case the sex has not been absolutely determined.
If any of them are males the great difference in size between the sexes so notorious in all other species is not apparent among the least weasels.
Mr. Baugs in his monograph of these mammals gives us a special character of rixosus  Ta'l not tipped with black   but I find that his type of that species has several distinctly blackish hairs among the brown ones at the tail tip so also has the specimen examined from Moose Factory.
I am indebted to the Messrs. Nease for consenting to part with the type on condition that it be preserved in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia as well as for their cooperation in this investigation Mr. Outran
Bangs generously loaned me the two specimens of rixosus mentioned above one of them lielonging to the Museum of Comparative Zoology of Cambridge Mass.
