NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSKS FROM SOUTH AFRICA AND BURMA.
BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY.
The Academy has received from the Rev.
H. W. Winkley good series of an Ampullaria and a Vivijyara from Henzada Burma which though without striking features do not seem referable to any of the numerous described species. Vivipara henzadensis n. sp.
PL V fig.
i.
Shell umbilicate broadly ovateconic olivegreen with some narrow slightly darker streaks surface glossy and smooth under a lens showing fine delicate and spaced spiral strife which become crowded and somewhat granulose on the base.
Spire short obtuse the earlier whorls eroded the eroded portion reddish tipped with black.
Sutures deeply impressed the whorls strongly swollen just below them last whorl angular at the periphery in front the angle disappearing on the last half whorl which is rounded umbilicus narrow excavated behind the columellar lip surrounded by an angle.
Aperture oblique roundedovate bluish white inside peristome narrowly expanded at the edge blunt black with a blackish border inside and out continuous across the parietal margin.
Alt.
23 diam.
16117 mm.
Operculum chestnutbrown and slightly wrinkled outside with a conspicuous raised or reflexed cuticular border inside with a conspicuously raised and minutely roughened ovate area nearer the columellar side radiating stria on the outside of this area and a raised border all around.
This species closely resembles the African T'.
helieiformis Ffld.
in form and color.
It belongs however to a group of south From Cochin China and neighboring countries Fischer enumerates no less than fifteen species of Ampullaria and thirtyeight of Paludina in his useful Catalogue et Distribution Geographique des Moll.
terr.fluv.
et marins d'une partie de I'lndoChine Autun 1891.
To this number a few additions have been made since the publication of that catalogue.
eastern Asia in which the operculum is peculiarly modified as described above.
This subgeneric group I propose to call Idiopoma the abovedescribed species being the type.
AmpuUaria Winkleyi n. sp.
PiV figs.
2 ..
Shell narrowly umbilicate globose yellowish olive uniform or with few or numerous dusky olive spiral bauds the earlier whorls eroded blackish or ruddy.
Surface smooth somewhat shining under a strong lens seen to be very densely microscopically striated spirally the strife minutely granulose spire lowconic sutures impressed the whorls flattened below them elsewhere symmetrically convex.
Aperture vertical semirotund narrower above reddishtawny and sometimes banded within becoming white near the lip peristome a trifle expanded below white or dirty yellowish the outer margin equably curved columella concave blunt and more or less thickened but not reflexed parietal callus rather thin white thinner within.
Alt.
58 diam.
50 longest axis of aperture 43 mm.
Operculum fig.
3 thick and solid concave externally and partially covered with a thin yellowishbrown cuticle.
Inside bluish with a micalike gleam the scar of attachment sunken the columellar side concentrically striate the enclosed eminence narrow curved and smooth.
Henzada Burma.
Types No.
76011 Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
It is somewhat allied to A. Begini Morlet.
Donax Bertini n. sp.
Shell long and narrow the height contained about 2 times in the length thin polished the color varying from pure white through various tints of pink to purple beaks situated at the posterior third of the length  anterior end rounded posterior end obliquely truncate rounded at the extremity  the upper margin anterior to the beaks straight basal margin but slightly curved  ridge defining the posterior area rounded.
Surface sculptured with slight growth wrinkles and faintly showing some fine radial strife which however are almost completely obsolete though plainly visible by looking through the shell except near the anterior end the posterior area is sculptured xdth deep oblique grooves the summits of the intervening ridges cut by finer radial strife.
Interior smooth or radially striate pallial sinus exteuding nearly to the middle of the shell's length  the margin finely crenate.
Length 15.5 all.
6 diara 4.5 mm.
Found by Mr. J. G. Malone in ballast from South Africa.
Types are No 79532 Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
This species is somewhat allied to D. Oweni Gray but the beaks are nearer the posterior end the valves are not keeled  the posterior costulation extends further and between and upon the riblets fine radial strise are conspicuous  finally the basal margin is finely and strongly crenulated inside and the shell is smaller.
It is named in honor of M. Victor Bertiu whose excellent Revision des Donacidees 1881 and various other papers on bivalves give evidence of a well trained and acute mind unfortunately lost to science by death at the beginning of a useful career.
The following species of Donax occurred with D. Bertini  D. Madagascar iensis Wood D. bipartittis Sowb. D. spiculum Rve. D. Erythrceensis Bertin.
Fossarus capensis n. sp.
PI.
V fig.
13.
Shell perforate turbinate white the last whorl encircled by three very strong compressed flangelike keels the largest peripheral in position the smallest surrounding the columellar region another of intermediate fize between these two.
Surface irregularly striatulate with some lamellar riblets toward the aperture densely spirally striate especially between the keels.
Spire acute whorls about 0 the last three showing the peripheral keel above the sutures Ajerture semicircular the peristome continuous notched at the terminations of the keels.
Alt.
fi diam.
4 mm.
In ballast from South Africa.
Type in Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. No.
79820.
The spire is more elevated than in F. ambiguus L or F. pusillus GId.
 MaPvCH 5 Mr. Charles Roberts iu the Chair.
Twelve persons present.
March 12.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Browx VicePresident in the Chair.
Seventeen persons present.
A paper entitled  Observations made in 1900 on Glaciers in British Columbia by George and William S. Vaux Jr. was presented for publication.
March 19.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D.
 in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication  New Mollusca from Japan Formosa and the Philippine Islands by Henry A. Pilsbry. 
The Forficulidre Blattidje Mantidse and Phasmidse collected in Northeast Africa by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith by James A. G. Rehn. 
The Limits of Variation in Plants by John W. Harshberger M.D.
JVARCH 26.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Twentythree persons present.
The death of E. O. Thompson a member on the 21st inst. was announced.
F. S. Manderson was elected a member.
.
Y. Hirase of Kioto and Carlos de la Torre of Havana were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be printed  NEW MOLLUSCA FEOM JAPAN THE LOO CHOO ISLANDS FORMOSA AND THE PHILIPPINES.
BY HEKRY A. PILSBRY.
The discovery of tbe major portion of the species herein defined is due to the untiring industry of Mr. Y. Hirase of Kyoto Japan whose researches bid fair to surpass those of any previous naturalist in the extent of his additions to our knowledge of the Japanese molluscan fauna.
Illustrations of the following species will accompany a continuation of this paper now in preparation.
HELICID.
Eulota succincta var.
amblytropis n. Differs from succincta in havins the peripheral keel obsolete on the latter part of the last whorl which is quite rounded.
Pale yellowish with a dark reddishchestnut peripheral band and two somewhat lighter reddish bands one alcove the other wider midway between periphery and umbilicus.
Surface rather smoother than in succincta.
Alt.
17 diam.
26 mm.
Alt.
16 diam.
23 mm.
Alt.
14 diam.
21 mm.
Formosa.
Coll.
A. N. S. P. No.
78187 and Univ.
of Michigan.
Eulota Sargentiana n. sp.
Shell narrowly umbilicate globoseturbinate rather thin slightly shining light yellowish brown with a narrow redbrowa band or line at the periphery and reddish within the umbilicus.
Spire elevated conic the apex acute whorls 6 somewhat convex slowly increasing the last angular at the periphery in front becoming rounded on the latter half rather swollen below but distinctly flattened around the umbilicus especially just behind the basal lip.
Aperture quite oblique irregularly lunate  peristome thin 13 distinctly though narrowly expanded the basal lip straicrhtened reflexed  rather suddenly dilated at the columellar insertion half covering the umbilicus parietal callus scarcely perceptible.
Alt.
22 diam.
28 mm.
Formosa.
Coll.
A. X. S. P. Xo.
78188 and Univ.
of Michigan.
This species belongs to the group of E. succincta differing from that form in the more globose and conic shell rather acute spire and straightened basal lip.
It is named in honor of Mr. H. E. Sargent the efficient curator of the museum of the University of Michigan.
ZONITID.
Lamprocystis spadix S and B. var.
cinctus n. v. Shell white with a supraperipheral redbrown band.
Formosa J.
B. Steere.
Numerous examples of the typical X.
6xfZi'.r were also taken by Mr. Steere.
Vitrinoconus Moellendorffi n. sp.
Shell highconic thin light broAvn  rather strongly but irregularly striate the strire slightly arcuate weaker beneath and disappearing on the early whorls outlines of the spire almost straight the apex obtuse.
Whorls 9 very slowly increasing very slightly convex the sutures filled by a seamlike cord  last whorl acutely keeled the keel compressed projecting base slightly convex.
Umbilicus contained 34 times in the total diametea of the shell welllike with flattened sides bordered by a projecting and compressed cordlike keel.
Aperture oblique small acutely angular at tlie position of the peripheral keel and emarginate where the umbilical keel terminates the basal margin arcuate peristome perceptibly thickened the outer lip simple basal and columellar margins a little expanded.
Alt.
7.7 diam.
10 mm.
 umbilicus 3 mm.
Alt.
8.2 diam.
10 mm.
 umbilicus 3 mm.
Panay Philippines J.
B. Steere Exped.
.
This species belongs to the group of V. cyathellus in Dr. on Mdlleudorfi's excellent arrangement of the genus Semper' s Reisen VIII p. 42 and to the first division of that group in von Molleudorff's key which to accommodate this species may be supplemented thus A.
 Umbilicus bounded by an angle  a.
 Umbilical angle simple wliorls 8 .
V. goniompho.lus.
a'.
 Umbilical angle bearing a cordlike keel b.
 Alt.
twothirds of the diam.
Width of umbilicus contained 4 times in diam.
of base.
Whorls 9 V. omp halotrop is.
h'.
 Alt.
somewhat exceeding threefourths the diam.
Umbilicus contained 3 times in diam.
Whorls 9 V. Moellendorffi.
Besides the difierences between Moellendorffi and omphalotropis given in the above table the former has the base decidedly more flattened.
SUOCINEID.
Succinea ogasawarse n. sp.
Shell short and broad for the genus squarishoblong very thin translucent and corneous with whitish streaks and clouds rather coarsely wrinkled in harmony with the lines of growth.
Sjjire excessively short obtuse flattened above there being barely two whorls separated by a commashaped suture the last whorl quite convex its earlier portion very convex.
Aperture very large eleventwelfths the greatest length of the shell very broadly ovate in form.
Greatest length of shell measured obliquely to the axis 12.5 greatest width measured at right angles to preceding 85 convexity 4.
8  longest axis of aperture 11.5 width 8 mm.
Ogasawara Bonin Islands Mr. Y. Hirase No.
617a.
A remarkable species in which the spire is reduced to a mere papilla and the last whorl is large and convex.
If the measurements were taken in the conventional manner the diameter would about equal the altitude but in a species so oblique in two planes as this one I have preferred to give measurements not involving the direction of the columellar axis.
Succinea punotulispira n. sp.
Shell ovate very thin and fragile pale yellow subtranslucent the spire sometimes slightly tinted with red sculpture of moderately coarse growth wrinkles and upon the spire and earlier portion of the last whorl minutely and densely punctate the pits arranged in spiral series.
Spire rather short and conically projecting composed of 2 whorls the first one very convex last whorl convex distinctly dilated or bellshaped at the mouth.
Aperture regularly ovate the outer lip evenly curved columellar lip simple and 196 rROCEEDiNGS OF THE ACADExMY OF March narrow.
Leugth measured in the ordinary manner 13 diam.
9 longest axis of aperture 11 width 7.5 mm.
Largest specimen in type lot 14.5 mm.
long.
Ogasawara or Bonin Islands Mr. Y. Hirase Xo.
6176..
I am no enthusiast on the subject of specific differentiation in the genus Succinea but the two species described above diflfer from those previously known so strongly that they become of some interest.
It is questionable whether these species are of common ancestry with S. lauta or S'.
horticola the two Japanese Suceineas.
I incline to the view that they have no direct relationship.
Some years ago the Abbe A. Vathelet gave me specimens of Succinea lauta under the name  S. Vatheleti Mabille.
I do not know that this supposed new species has been published.
COLUMBELLID.
Columbella polynyma nn. Oolumbella misera Sow. Dunker Index Moll.
Mar.
Jap. p. 54.
Not C. miser Sowb. Thes.
Conch. I p. 129 bis PJ.
38 fig.
111.
Columbella japonica Martens Conchol.
Misc. in Archiv f.
Naturg. LXIII 1897 p. 170 PI.
16 fig.
6.
Not C. japonica Reeve Conch.
Icon. 1858.
Shell shortfusiform solid yellow or orangeyellow typically with a subsutural white band irregularly marked with blackbrown or redbrown the slender lower portion of the base also whitish with dark or reddish dots or stripes two white lines or girdles likewise darkdotted upon the intermediate part of the last whorl but sometimes the dark markings are faint or in part wanting.
Surface glossy sculptured with very short longitudinal folds above scarcely reaching the suture and not extending below the periphery the folds on the spire becoming weak at both sutures.
Base spirally lirate.
Whorls about Qh.
Aperture rather narrow the outer lip thick and furnished with a series of short folds within columella smooth.
Length 11 diam.
5.3 length of aperture 5.5 mm.
Kumihama prov.
Tango Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80556 coll.
A. N.
S. P. from 1097 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This pretty liltle Columbella has fared ill in the matter of names as the references above bear witness.
It is closely related to the true C misera oi Sowerby but that species has stronger folds especially those upon the spire and a white or nearly white groundcolor profusely marked with blackishbrown the summit of each fold having a vertical line or a spot of that shade.
In C. polynyma the folds are weaker and the colorscheme quite different.
C. niisera Avas taken in some numbers by Mr. F. Stearns at Kamakura prov.
Sagami.
The specimens vary from completely typical to a broader form.
The habitat of the type was unknown but from the exact agreement of Japanese examples with the original figure it may not unlikely have been from Japan.
I know of no other positive locality for the species.
Prof von Martens has quoted the figures of C. miser Duclos in Chenu Illust.
Conclujl. PI.
21 figs.
1310 as representing his C. japonlca but these figures show the characteristic spots on the ribs of C. misera and in my opinion do not represent any form of the present species.
BUCCINID.
Chrysodomus intersculptus var.
frater n. Shell differing from C intersculptus Sowb. in having fewer and comparatively stronger spiral ribs the intervals densely and finely striate spirally the anterior canal longer more slender with no appearance of a siphonal funicle.
Length 84 diara.
45 length of aperture 50 mm.
Kizennuma prov.
Rikuzen Mr. Y. Hirase.
Typical C. intersculptus comes from the west coast of the main island.
This form probably replaces it on the east or ocean coast.
FASCIOLARIID.
Peristernia ustulata var.
luchuana n. Similar in form and sculpture to P. ustulata Rve from the Fiji Islands but with fewer and larger longitudinal folds 7 on the last whorl fleshy buff usually with a brown spot in each interval at the periphery the aperture yellow and lirate within the end of the anterior canal blackish purple.
Columella with two folds stronger than in P. ustulata.
Length 28 diam 12 length of aperture 14 mm.
Loo Choo Islands Mr. Y. Hirase.
This form resembles Peristernia infracincta Kobelt in coloration but differs in wanting the subcentral stronger spiral on the upper whorls and four larger spirals below the pei'iphery of the last whorl which Kobelt found constant in ten specimens of his  Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
7 IV p. 371 Nov. 1899.
Mr. Hirase sends this species from Kumihama prov.
Tango.
 Conchylien Cabinet Turbinella  p. 92 157. species.
P. iistulata in the wide limits given by Tryou has a somewhat extended range in the southwest Pacific but it has not before been reported fi'om so far north as the Loo Choo group.
LITTORINID Echinella Cumingi var.
luchuana nov.
Shell similar to E. cuminrii Phil in having a circular deep umbilicus bounded by a while marginal rib but narrower with the last whorl less depressed the two peripheral series of tubercles much less prominent some coarse subtuberculate cords revolving between them and also below the sutural series.
Base more convex tvith finer and not granose spiral stride below the subperipheral series of granules.
Fleshcolored violet or bluish the tubercles whitish.
Aperture orangebrown inside dark brown with the columella purple in violet or bluish shells.
Alt.
16 diam 14 mm.
' Alt.
13 diam.
11 mm. '
Loo Choo Islands Frederick Stearns Y. Hirase. 
This is the form I reported from the Loo Choo Islands in Catal.
Mar.
Moll.
Jap. p. 175.
I have seen a great many specimens but none approach the real Cumingi of Polynesia.
TURBONILLIDiE.
Turbonilla varicifera n. sp.
Shell long and slender white composed of at least 15 whorls the nuclear portion broken off.
Sculpture of close rather stout rounded ribs only very slightly sinuous or oblique about 19 in number on the last whorl which ends with a broad varix as wide as or slightly wider than the intervals and stopping abruptly just below the periphery the somewhat convex base very faintly striated spirally.
Scattered among the ribs there are a few stout wide rounded varices at intervals of several whorls.
Aperture small subtrapezoidal the columella straight and vertical.
Length 11.8 diam.
2.6 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hirase.
This rather large manywhorled and varicose species differs from T. varicosa in having the columella straight above not  superne valde sinuata  as Duuker describes his species.
Manual of Conchology III p. 84.
TROOHID.
Cantharidus  Phasianotrochus  Hirasei n. .
Shell ovatepyramidal solid of a uniform olive or brownisholive color or belted with numerous reddish spiral bands.
Smooth except for faint growthlines above the base scored by 5 or 6 narrow spaced concentric grooves stronger near the axis.
Spire conic whorls 6i convex the last subangular at the periphery convex beneath.
Aperture oblique brilliantly green inside with a dusky submarginal band the edge pale columella opaque white rounded  the umbilical region imperforate or with a very minute perforation.
Alt.
10 diam.
6.5 to 7 mm.
Hirado Hizeu Mr. Y. Hirase.
This is a true Phasianotrochm the first made known from Japan having the green nacre of the interior iridescent with the characteristic splendor of the subgenus.
The other species of this division are from Australia and Tasmania.
In one banded specimen the earliest three whorls are variegated with pink and white like a Phasianella and assimilating to some Australian species of Phasiaiiotrochu.s.
Cantharidus bisbalteatus n. sp.
Shell elevated conic imperforate or minutely rimate glossy.
Encircled by a crimson or scarlet lelt at the periphery and another bordering the suture below continuous or interrupted by white streaks or spots and roseate around the umbilical tract the intervening spaces somewhat olivaceous with a few narrow spirals of alternate blue or white and redbrown dots two or three of these spiral lines ascending the spire.
Sculpture of slight growthlines and fainter or wholly obsolete fine spiral stria above and about 6 finespaced grooves around the umbilical region stronger toward the middle.
Spire conic the apex acute  whorls about H quite convex separated by an impressed suture the last whorl subangular at the periphery convex beneath.
Aperture oblique roundedrhombic pearly and iridescent within with green or green and red reflections scarcely showing any appearance of sulcation.
Columella white concave above somewhat straightened in the middle  columellar area excavated white.
Alt.
12.5 diam.
8.5 to 9 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hirase.
Compared with the excessively variable C. japonicus A.
Ad.
 described as Zmjphhius japonicus the present species differs in being shorter and broader with more convex whorls less angular periphery and smoother base the concentric grooves being finer and not extending outward so far.
Clanoulus gemmulifer n. sp.
Shell lowtrochiforra solid angular at the periphery slightly convex beneath.
Groundcolor red or dull red.
Sculpture of spiral cords cut into smooth rounded beads these cords a little narroAver than the intervals on the upper surface smaller on the base and about equal in width to their intervals.
Above the periphery on the last Avhorl there are five beadrows all of them dotted either having a black interval between two white beads or with a black and a white bead the intervals consisting of two or three red beads base similarly variegated but the dots are sometimes brown.
Furrows between the beadrows finely and densely decussate by spiral and oblique raised strire or threads.
Spire straightly conic the apex acute roseate.
Whorls about 6 the last deflexed in front.
Aperture oblique contracted by a simple rather compressed fold at the foot of the columella and another near the upper end of the outer lip several small folds between them.
Columella contorted above deeply entering the falseumbilicus the margin of which is toothed.
Parietal callus strongly plicate.
Alt.
7.5 diam.
9 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hira.se.
Closely related to C. marfaritarius Phil. which occurs at the same locality but is larger and more elevated with more whorls and further differs in the trifid coluraellar tooth more rounded periphery and in having the first and third beadrows unspotted except close to the aperture.
A well grown specimen of C. marffaritarim measures alt.
15 diam.
16 mm.
C. imedo is a more elevated species with heavier columellar fold and some unspotted beadrows.
Clanculus microdon var.
ater n. v. Shell black with a few inconspicuous whitish dots and bright rose apex the coloration resembling C. atropnrpnreas Gld.
Spiral lira' about 17 on the last whorl with threads or minor lire in some of Ihe intervals.
Whorls of llie spire angular by the prominence of the middle beaded cord.
Whorls 6.
Alt.
11 diam.
13 mm.
Hirado Hizeu Y. Hirase.
Seems to agree with C. mlcrodon except in coloration greater number of spiral cords and other characters given above but will probably be considered a separate species eventually.
From the Polynesian C. atrojmrpweits which von Martens reports from the Mergui Archipelago it is distinct in sculpture etc.
Clanculus hizenensis n. pShell turbinate moderately solid alternately whitish and dark brown in broad radial flames above whitish profusely speckled with olivebrown beneath.
Sculpture of four coarse spaced beaded spiral cords above separated by intervals of their own width sharply and densely striate by the growthlines the base with 9 much smaller closer concentric cords slightly cut by obliquely radial grooves the outer cord larger.
Whorls nearly 6 the last rounded at the periphery slightly convex beneath.
Aperture oblique rounded the outer lip usually weakly plicate Avithin in fully mature shells columella having a weak fold above and inserted on the right side of the umbilicus terminating below in a strongly projecting simple toothlike fold.
Marginal rib of the umbilicus having a few weak nodules.
Alt.
7 diam.
7.5 mm.
Hirado Hizeu Mr. Y. Hirase.
Closely resembles the more plaincolored specimens of C. Thomasi Crosse from New Caledonia but the spirals above are less unequal more strongly beaded and more spaced with sharply striate intervals.
It is a somewhat larger shell than C. Thomasi.
Sometimes one or two of the spaces between the cords of the upper surface bear a minute thread.
Euchelus ruber A.
Ad. var.
brunneus n. v. Shell similar to E. ruber but dull brown or fleshy brown with scattered brown dots.
Alt.
6i diam.
6 mm.
Hirado Hizen.
Similar to E. ruber in sculpture but as all the Japanese specimens I have seen are diflerent in color it is probably distinguishable as a dullcolored race.
Chlorostoma argyrostomum var basiliratum n. Shell imperforate smaller than the typical form Tith coarser corrugation above the base strongly Urate concentrically.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hirase.
This form is intei'mediate between the finely corrugated Chinese argyrostomum and the coarsely sculptured Japanese species of Chlorostomi.
I know of no authentic record of C. argyrostomum from Japan.
ACMID.
Acmaea Heroldi var.
signata uov.
About the size and form of A Heroldi.
Nearly smooth or with very low weak radial ribs white with eight gray rays variegated with brown.
Interior white or brownish within the musclescar the edge dotted and maculate with brown.
Length 13 breadth 10 alt.
4 mm.
Otoshima prov.
Bitcliu Mr. Y. Hirase.
A form from Kamakura taken by Mr. F. Stearns seems referable to this variety.
It is smaller and higher length 9.5 breadth 7.5 alt.
4 mm. without a marked internal margin or central area the rays showing through.
It may be well to say in this connection that the Patella jyallida of Gould formerly referred by me to Helcioniscus is a true Acmcea in shell characters.
Mr. Hirase has sent specimens from Mashike Teshio in Hokkaido.
Patella grata Gould has ' about the contour of Helcion'iscus eucosmius Pils.
 is quite acutely conic with strongly spinose ribs according to a note I made on the type.
No 1965 U. S. National Museum.
PATELLID.
Patella luchuana n. sp.
Shell small solid roundedoval conic the altitude nearly half the breadth apex erect and acute situated a little in front of the centre anterior and posterior slopes somewhat convex.
Surface dull sculptured with many narrow riblets several inconspicuous radial threads in each interval.
Greenish gray indistinctly speckled with dark brown.
Interior bluish or livid white the area within the muscleimpression large calloused the impression distinct impressed.
Edge beveled having a narrow gray or greenish border and profusely or sparingly dotted with blackbrown.
Length 12 breadth 10 alt.
4.5 mm.
Length 13 breadth 10.5 alt.
4.5 mm.
Loo Choo Islands Mr. Y. Hirase.
A small species with inconspicuous sculpture but so solid that I take the specimens to be adult.
The base is curved in some specimens as though they had lived on shells while in others it is nearly level.
None of the species described from the region resembles this one.
CHITONIDuE.
Onithochiton Hirasei n. sp.
Oblong moderately elevated not carinate the dorsal ridge being rounded side slopes straight smooth and glossy yellow marbled with whitish having a chestnut triangle or some chestnut dots at the ridge of each valve several blue and olive clouds or blotches in front of the diagonal lines and with more or less variegation of the same colors on the lateral areas.
Anterior valve having black eyes arranged in about 10 primary radii with many others irregularly scattered or in shorter rows.
Valve ii as usual longer than iii to viii all intermediate valves beaked having the lateral areas indistinctly defined the diagonal ridge inconspicuous except near the beaks growthlines fine curving backward on the ridge and adults have several .spaced deeper concentric grooves near the sides and anterior margin of each valve  near the beaks the diagonal ridge becomes raised and beaded and there are irregular forivardlyconverg ing zigzag grooves upon the pleural tracts.
A narrow line of eyes radiates along the anterior part of each lateral area and there are pits as large as the eyes but not pigmented scattered sparsely upon the pleural tracts.
Valve viii depressed triangular with the usual terminal apex and linear rugose posterior area the breadth of the tegmentum twice its length.
Interior white stained with dull purple and puuctulate in the middle valvecallus heavy reflexed border rather wide sinus rather wide finely denticulate insertion plates moderately long finely pectinated outside slits 9 in valve i 11 in valves ii to vii a wide flat ledge in place of the insertionplate in valve viii.
Girdle dark brown Avith irregular buff patches smooth to the eye but seen to be microscopically granulose under a strong lens.
Length about 36 width 20 mm.
Hirado prov.
Hizen.
Types Xo.
80571 coll.
A N. S. P. from No.
1176 of Mr Hirase's catalogue.
This is the first species of the genus described since the publication of my monograph in 1892 and the only one known from north of the equator.
The sculpture of the valves is unlike any described Onithochiton.
A very young specimen was reported as  Tonicia sp. 
in the JVautilus XII p. 50.
It is named in honor of my esteemed Japanese correspondent.
CRYPTOPL ACID .
Two species of Cryptoplax the first known from north of the equator have been found by Mr. Hirase at Hirado Hizeu.
One of them which I call C. japonicus n.
sp. has valvesculpture like C. Gunnii Rve. 
of South Australia and the spacing of the valves along the back is similar but in the Japanese species the last four valves are smaller valve viii being scarcely longer than valve ii while in C. Gunnii and G. striatus it is a fourth longer.
The girdle is densely spiculose much as in C. striatus.
The articulamenta are green.
Length of dried animal about 26 breadth 5.5 mm.
In another species C. rhodoplax n. sp.
 the valves are spaced about as in C. japonicus but are sculptured much as in C. larvceformis with low irregular ridges jDarallel to the lateral margins of the valves the articulamenta being bright rose colored.
Valve vi is the smallest.
The posterior insertionplate of valve viii is vertical  and the sutural laminte and insertionplates of all the valves are much shorter than in C. larvceformis.
Length of the dried animal 28 mm.
A full account of these species will be given later and meantime I hope to procure alcoholic specimens for description and illustration PBTRIOOLID.
Petricola cyclus n. sp.
Shell solid white subcircular though with somewhat irregular outline swollen the beaks full projecting turned forward situated at about the anterior third of the length.
Periphery convex throughout the posterior end sometimes a little produced.
Sculpture of slightly irregular radial riblets about efual to their intervals often stronger posteriorly gradually weakening anteriorly and vholIy obsolete on the anterior half or third of the valve rude crowded bluntly lamellar circular striae everywhere minutely rougrhening the surface.
Interior white the pallial sinus large and rounded extending to about the middle of the shell's length.
Hinge rather strong the right valve with two diverging rather compressed and long erect cardinal teeth the posterior one the more slender left valve with an erect triangular bilobed cardinal with a subobsolete diverging tooth on either side.
Ligament short almost entirely immersed.
Length 15 alt 15 diam.
12 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80580 coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1199 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A very short subglobular species somewhat related to P. lithophaga Retz.
of Europe but rounder with more deeply immersed ligament stouter hinge different shaped and stronger teeth.
The sculpture in some specimens is not dissimilar.
As usual in the genus the teeth are liable to fracture and when broken often do not show plainly that they are injuied.
In a variety which may be called var.
sculpturata the posterior end is more prolonged and the entire surface of the valves ribbed.
The teeth agree with P. eyelus.
Types from Puttalam Ceylon Coll A N. S. P..
One specimen from Hirado Hizen seems to belong here.
Petricola cyclus belongs to the section Rupellaria as defined by Prof. Dall in his exposition of the Pelrlcolidce   the section Clandiconcha being represented in Japan by P. monstrosa and the section Petricolaria by P. ceqiiistriata Sowb.
VENERID.E.
Venus Hirasei n. sp.
Shell rounded oval ventricose inequilateral very solid and strong creamwhite clouded and maculate with dull brown.
Surface lustreless sculptured with 24 to 28 strong curved radial FleurieuBellevu Journ.
de Phys. LIV 1802 p. 345 Bidl.
Soc.
Philomath de Paris III 1802 p. 106.
 Trans.
Wagner Free Institute of Science III.
Pt.
5 i December 1 1900 p. 1058. ribs fully double the width of the interstices closely and irregularly creuulated by low concentric blunt crowded luminiTe which on the later growth are obsolete in the grooves but toward the beaks are narrower and sharper less crowded and continuous across ribs and intervals.
Beaks full projecting curved forward.
Lunule heartshaped dark brown ribbed and defined by a groove.
Area well sunken ribless and wide in the left vilve indistinct in the right.
Anterior end short rounded  posterior end more broadly rounded.
Interior pure white the right valve with three diverging cardinal teeth the posterior two grooved left valve with two cardinals the anterior one slender posterior stouter shorter and deeply grooved.
Cavity of the beaks deep.
Pallial sinus small triangular narrow and acute.
Valve margins except the hinge line very weaklv fluted and closely crenulate.
Length 43 alt.
37.5 diam.
29 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hirase.
This species resembles V. jedoensis Lischke but has hardly more than half as many and stronger ribs.
There is a specimen before me from Susaki Awaji Island besides several from the type locality.
Tapes platyptycha n. sp.
Shell oblong compressed the length somewhat exceeding 2times the diameter white profusely marked with angular redbrown reticulating lines grouped into triangular spots or with inverted Vshaped markings and four radial series of brown blotches alternating with white spots.
Sculptured with concentric ridges wider than their intervals broad and flattened toward the lower margin and especially posteriorly fine and close toward the beaks.
Beaks low yellow or purple situated at about the anterior fifth of the length the dorsal margin behind them nearly straight posterior end obliquely truncate bluntly regular at its junction with the upper and basal margins.
Anterior end short rather attenuated much as in T. adspersa.
Lunule narrow indistinctly defined by an impressed line flattened marked with some oblique brown lines.
Area depressed transversely maculate with groups of dark lines.
Interior white tinted with sulphur yellow within the pallial line.
Pallial sinus broad and rounded not quite reaching the middle of the length of the shell.
Anterior cardinal tooth iu each valve compressed and simple the middle one stouter bifid.
Length 54 alt.
37 diam.
21 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hirase.
This species stands near T. qafidrinidiata Desh. differing in the coarser sculpture more distinctly truncate posterior end and decidedly shallower pallial sinus.
The color of the interior is also different.
T. deshaijesii Hanley has a narrower and deeper pallial sinus.
Tapes phenaz n. sp.
Shell oblong rather swollen the diameter contained 2 times iu the length pale yellow densely reticulated with angular reddishbrown and purplish lines darker in four wide rays which are more or less blotched with brown pale flesh tin ted or whitish toward the beaks.
Sculpture of fine crowded concentric ribstrise.
Beaks moderately prominent at about the anterior fifth of the shell's lensrth.
Dorsal margin moderately curved posterior end rounded basal margin well arched  anterior end short rounded.
Lunule rather broadly lanceolate defined by slight grooves dark with irregular darker lines.
Area lanceolate sunken smooth variegated.
Interior white ar the margins ochre or reddishyellow' in the cavity.
Pallial sinus broad and deep reaching the middle of the shell's length or slightly past it.
Length 46 alt.
31 diam.
20.5 mm.
Loo Choo Islands Mr. Y. Hirase.
7his handsome species is far more finely sculptured and more inflated than T. quadrimdiata Desh. but in my opinion it is the form identified as quadriradiata by Roemer iu his magnificent monograph of Venus Part 2 PI.
18 fig.
2.
The crowded ribstrite of the surface do not become wider on the lower and posterior portions of the valves as they do in T. quadriradiata Desh. and the posterior cardinal tooth of the right valve while grooved at the tip is not broadly bifid as in Deshayes' species.
DONACID.
Donaz kiusiuensis n. sp.
Shell small rather thin white with one or two illdefined ochraceous rays or yellow with some dusky concentric streaks the beaks browntipped  irregularly triangular the length somewhat less than twice the altitude and nearly three times the diameter anterior end longer tapering rounded posterior end slightly convex bluntly angular below the beaks situated at about the posterior twofifths of the length.
Surface glossy sculptured with slight growthlines and exceedingly fine subobsolete radial stria angular posteriorly the posterior area sculptured ivith strong smooth radial ribs narrower than their flat intervals and terminating on the angle.
Ligament very short and swollen.
Interior white with brown stains near the ends posterior lateral tooth strong basal margin finely ut distinctly crenulated.
Length 9 alt.
5.5 diam.
3.3 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hi rase.
A small species belonging to the section Chion chiefly distinguished by the strong sculpture of the posterior end.
ANATINID.
Anatina impura n. sp.
Shell oblong fragile rather ventricose widely gaping posteriorly but slightly so in front  sculptured with low irregular wrinkles and where unworn with the usual granulation.
White and pearly above where worn through the very thin porcellanous coat covered at the margins with a dirty yellowish cuticle which is more persistent and lamellose on the posterior rostrum.
Beaks at the middle of the shell's length not turned forward contiguous one of them worn through both slit as usual.
Anterior end broadly rounded dorsal margin almost straight posterior end narrow the margins hardly expanded basal margin parallel with the upper margin except posteriorly where it rises suddenly.
Interior whitish slightly wrinkled the chondrophore and buttress as usual.
Length 38 alt.
20 diam.
15 mm.
Kamakura province of Sagami types No.
68536 and 70812 coll.
A. N. S. P..
This species differs from A. japonica Lischke in the median position of the beaks and different shape of the posterior end.
Lischke has figured two somewhat diverse forms under the head .4. japonica.
That represented in his figs.
9 10 has been taken by Mr. Hirase at Hirado Hizen.
Having before me all of the species of Anatina credited to Japan as well as most of the Philippine forms I find myself unable to place the specimens described above in any of the accepted species.
A. kamakurana of which I have seen a good many specimens differs constantly in its long form and the different shape of the posterior end.
LIMID.
Lima Hirasei n. sp.
Shell inequilateral thin white broadly gaping anteriorly slightly so posteriorly compressed the valves but little convex beaks a trifle in front of the middle of the short hingeline.
Anterior auricle minute triangular acuminate bent inward posterior auricle narrow.
Cavity of the beaks rather deep.
A strong rib runs along the posterior margin slightly within the edge.
Surface closely and very finely striate radially the stxiation obsolete anteriorly and on the posterior slope and auricle.
Length 18 alt.
21 diam.
7.5 mm.
 length of hingeline 6.5 mm.
Hirado prov.
Hizen Kiusiu Japan Mr Y. Hirase.
L. orientalis Adams and Keeve and most of the other small Oriental species are much more coarsely sculptured than this species.
L. Dunkeri E. A. Smith is evenly striated throughout the stride slightly diverging from a median line and it is nearly equilateral.
In L. Hirasei striation gradually becomes obsolete on the anterior half of the valves is abruptly discontinued at the posterior slope and there is no divarication from a median line.
The shell is conspicuously inequilateral.
The species is named for my esteemed Japanese correspondent.
L. Dunkeri also occurs at Hirado Hizen whence specimens have been received from Mr. Hirase.
Area Scapharca nipponensis n. sp.
Shell of medium size thin inflated the left valve decidedly larger the beaks full moderately elevated incurved and turned slightly forward situated at the anterior twofifths of the hingeline.
Sculpture the same in both valves consisting of 37 or 38 equal radial ribs which are nearly flattopped at least near the periphery and separated by interspaces narrower than the ribs the whole marked by slight growthlines in denuded shells.
Covered with a thin chestnut cuticle which is densely minutely striate and bears spaced bristles in the intercostal spaces on the median and posterior portions of the valves and on the anterior 14 portion is lamellose and bears flat triangular processes in the interspaces.
Toward the beaks the cuticle is worn off.
Hingeline twothirds the greatest length of the shell straight strongly angular at both ends.
Anterior margin evenly rounded basal margin wellarched the posterior end noticeably arcuate oblique meeting the basal margin in a blunt augle.
Cardinal area very narrow sunken behind the beaks with an elevated margin slightly wider and less sunken in front.
Hinge teeth small and vertical in the middle well inclined and larger toward the two ends a distinct though narrow ledge below the posterior teeth.
Interior pure white slightly grooved and delicately striate radially in the cavity of the valves becoming very deeply grooved toward the margins the summits of the intervening ridges concave.
Length 45 alt.
36 diam.
29 mm.
 sometimes larger length 55 all.
46 mm.
East coast of Hondo Miss A. C. Hartshorn.
Types No.
79009 coll.
A. K S. P. This species of which we have six specimens from two sources Nos.
79009 78749 70970 is distinguished by its wellrounded contours unusually narrow cardinal area the marked disparity in size of the valves and the large number of ribs.
Tt is somewhat allied to A. disparills Reeve  of which we have specimens from Singapore but that is less orbicular with more of a ridge or augle defining the posterior slope and densely lamellose not bristly in the intercostal spaces.
In some specimens of A. nipjyonoisls the cuticle is greenish in places.
.
disprilis ol Kobelt's monograph is clearly a species different from that of Eeeve.
NOTE ON THE ODONTOSTOMIDiE.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Dr. Pilsbry Conservator of the Couchological Section of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has called my attention to the fact that the name Odontostomus was first proposed foi mollusca in the Index Molluseorum prcesentis cevl Musei Principis aiigustissimi Christiani Frederici edited by H. Beck in 1837 thus having one year of priority over its use in ichthyology.
I take pleasure in dedicating the necessary changes to Dr. B. W. Evermann the distinguished ichthyologist of the United States Fish Commission and joint author of that monumental work The Fishes of North America.
The natural derivative Evermannia is already used in ichthyology so I propose Evermanella.
The changes with nearly all of the synonymy will result in the following Family EVERMANNBLLID.
OdontostomidcB Gill in Goode and Bean Oceanic Ichthyology 1896 p. 121.
OdontostoviidcB Jordan and Evermann Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
47 I 1896 p. 597.
Genus EVERMANNELLA.
Odondostomus Cocco Nuovi Annali delle Scienze Naturali Bologna II 1838 p. 192.
Odo7ito8tomus Giinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. V 1864 p. 417.
Odontostomus Giinther Rep. Sci.
Res.
Voy.
Challenger Zool.
XXII 1887 p. 200.
Odontostomus Alcock Desc.
Cat.
Ind.
Fish Investigator 1899 p. 166.
Odontostomus Garman Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. XXIV Fish XXVI 1899 p. 402.
1.
Evermannella balbo Risso.
Scopelus Balbo Risso IVIem.
del.
Reale Accad.
del.
Sci.
Torino XXV 182022. p. 263 PI.
X fig.
3.
Scopelus balbo Risso Hist.
Nat.
Eur.
Merid. Ill 1826 p. 466.
Odontostomus balbo Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesci Europei 1846 p. 37.
Odondostomus hyalinus Cocco Nuovi Anuali delle Scienze Naturali Bologna II 1833 p. 192 Tav.
VIII fig.
11.
Odontostomus hyaUnus Bonaparte Fauna Italica Pesci Tomo III XXVII 1840.
139 PI.
120 fig.
6.
Odontostomus hyalinus Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesci Europei 1846 p. 37.
Odontostomus liyalinus Cuvier and Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. XXII 1849 p. 315.
Odontostomus hyalinus GiintherCat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. V 1864 p. 417.
Odontostomus hyalinus Giinther Kep.
Sci.
Res.
Voy.
Challenger Zool. XXII 1887 p. 200 PI.
LII fig.
A. Odontostomus hyalinus Goode and Bean Oceanic Ichthyology 1896 p. 121 fig.
145.
Odontostomus hyalinus Garman Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. XXIV Fish. XXVI 1899 p. 402.
2.
Evermannella atrata Alcock.
Odontostomus atratus Alcock Journ.
Asiatic Soc.
Bengal LXII Pt.
2 1893 p. 182 PI.
IX fig.
4.
Odontostomus atratus Alcock Desc.
Cat.
Ind.
Fish Investigator 1899. p. 167.
Odontostomus atratus Garman Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. XXIV Fish. XXVI 1899 p. 402.
Odontostomus atratus Alcock lUust.
Zool.
Investigator Fish. Part VII 1900 PI.
XXXIII fig.
3.
Genus OMOSUDIS.
Omosudis Giinther Eep.
Sci.
Kes.
Voy.
Challenger Zool. XXII 1887 p. 201.
Omosudis Goode and Bean Oceanic Ichthyology 1896 p. 122.
Omosudis Jordan and Evermann Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
47 I 1896 p. 598.
Omosudis Garman Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. XXIV Fish. XXVI 1899 p. 401.
1.
Omosudis lowii Gunther.
Omosudis Zowu Giinther Rep. Sci.
Ees.
Voy.
Challenger Zool. XXII 1887 p. 201 PI.
LII figs.
C C. Omosudis lowii Goode and Bean Oceanic Ichthyology 1896 p. 122 fig.
150.
Omosudis loicii Jordan and Evermann Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
47 I 1896 p. 598.
Omosudis Lowii Garman Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. XXIV Fish. XXVI 1899 p. 401.
OBSERVATIONS MADE IN 1900 ON GLACIERS IN BRITISH COLUMBIA.
BY GEORGE AND WILLIAM S. TAUX JR.
While the glaciers noted in the following report form but a small fraction of the hundreds in the Rocky Mountains of Canada their continued recession may be taken as an indication of the changes which are taking place in the glaciers of the region A moderate winter followed by an early and warm spring melted the snow and flooded the rivers at an early date.
The continued wet and stormy weather which extended far into the spring and summer did much to increase the amount of melting.
So far as it has been possible to determine all the glaciers of this region are still receding.
One exception to this rule was reported but the advance could not be proved with any certainty.
 Victoria Glacier.
The rocks marked last year to determine the motion and shrinkage of this glacier were again noted on July 24 1900.
The large block of limestone about one mile from the tongue marked  VX '99 appeared to have moved 147 feet while a large block of sandstone near the terminal moraine had an apparent motion of 115 feet.
The general condition of the glacier appears practically the same as last year.
Measurements taken on the northwest side indicate a shrinkage of about six feet for the year.
Several very fine glacier tables were noted one being a block of sandstone eighteen inches thick from ten to twelve feet in diameter and elevated not less than five feet from the surface of the surrounding ice.
AsuLKAN Glacier.
This glacier has receded perceptibly since last year the tongue being twentyfour feet further up the valley than when last noted.
There has also been a marked shrinkage in everv dimension.
Illecillewaet Glacier.
The very small recession in the tongue of the Illecillewaet Glacier during the summer of 1899 was found to have been largely made up in 1900 so that the average of the two years was not far from that of the past thirteen as previously noted A distinct shrinkage was observed in all dimensions but this was most noticeable at the tongue which was now 140 feet above the rock  C nearly twice the distance of the previous year.
Our work the past summer consisted  a in taking the test picture of the lower part of the glacier which was made under unfavorable conditions on August 7 1900 b location of the border of the ice on the map of 1899 and c location and measurement of motion of line of plates across the glacier.
a.
Of the test picture nothing need be added except that the series is now complete for three consecutive years and furnishes a most interesting illustration of the comparatively slight and yet none the less constant changes in the contour of the ice.
b.
The position of the edge of the ice was easily located with reference to the several fixed rocks laid out on the general survey of 1899.
The plotting of this border line showed that the glacier had receded an average of not far from twenty feet on the sides and sixtyfour feet on the extreme tongue.
At one point the ice seemed to have changed but little since last year while at others the recession was more than 100 feet.
This constant yearly recession has been proved to be in progress at least since 1887. c. The location and measurement of the line of eight plates across the glacier which were first laid out on July 31 1899 and had consequently been on the ice almost exactly one year was taken up on the 6th of August 1900 on which date plates Nos.
1 2 3 4 5 6 and 7 were located.
Plate No.
8 could not be found and it was not discovered till several days later when its position also was obtained.
All the plates seem to have moved in lines almost parallel with the centre line of the glacier.
The following table shows the motion of the plates for the year and also repeats for comparison the motions determined in the fall of 1899 after the plates had been on the ice but thirtysix days.
It will be noted that the con P'oceedmgs of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 1899 p. 124. cave or northeast side has a greater daily motion than last year while the onvex or southwest has not moved at quite so rapid a rate.
Whether this change is accidental or is the result of peculiar conditions has not been determined.
While the plates were left on the surface of the glacier it is hardly likely that future measurements will be of great value should the plates be again found.
They are approaching a much rougher portion of the glacier broken by crevasses deep wells and seracs and even should they remain on the surface in many instances it will 'be impossible to see them from the base line.
They have however served their purpose in demonstrating that the average motion of nearly two feet per day as determined by Dr. W. S. Green in 1888 was either much greater than the actual motion or was the result of conditions which do not now exist.
TaUe showing Total Average Daily Motion of Line of Plates on lllecillcicaet Glacier Glacier House B. C. Number of Plate.
Total Slotion from July 31 1899 to August 6 1900372 daysinches.
Average Daily Motion from July 31 1899 to August 6 1900372 days inches.
Average Daily Motion from July 31 1899 to September 5 1899 30 days inclies.
1 1063 2.86 2.56 2 1488 4.
3.90 3 1677 4.51 5.51 4 2172 5.84 6.77 5 2256 6.07 6.06 6 2364 6.36 6.79 7 1902 5.11 6.16 8 2040 5.48 6.
DESCKIPTIONS OF NEW BEES COLLECTED BY MR. H H. SMITH IN BRAZIL.II.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL.
Lithurgus corumbae n. sp.
.
 Length 7 mm. black with silverywhite pubescence dense on the face except the elevated portion Avhich is bare and cheeks rather dense on metathorax except basal area and middle of sides and pleura hind margin of prothorax and tubercles edged with dense white hair forming a conspicuous white line lateral hind margins of abdominal segments 1 to 3 and the whole hind margins of 4 and 5 with snowwhite hairbands apical segment of abdomen and dark parts of the two previous segments with some short black hair but it is very inconspicuous and there is no apical fimbria ventral scopa white tinged with ferruginous on the fifth segment legs with white hair that on hind tarsi long and slightly ferruginous  femora and basal two segments of abdomen dark ferruginous facial eminence rather low but distinct obscurely bituberculate  head and thorax strongly and densely punctured autenuai short flagellum stout and obscurely brown beneath tegulre dark reddishbrown wings brownish nervures and stigma piceous hind tibire with numerous short spines on the outer side as usual in the genus spurs white.
Hah.
 Corumba April.
This is the smallest Lithurgus I have ever seen but L. nifipes Sm. from South Africa is nearly as small.
The genus is new to the fauna of Brazil.
The stigma of L. cornmbce is somewhat larger than is usual in the genus.
The marginal cell is shaped as in the North American and European species not acutely pointed as in the Indian L. atratiis Sm.
Ceratina maculifrons Smith 1853.
Chapada January.
1  .
 Length 6 mm.
 differs from Smith's description by having no yellow on the four posterior tibise the sides of the metathorax having no white pubescence and the hind femora having an apical tooth or projection.
The peculiar facemarkings the tooth on the outer side of the hind tibia near the base etc. are as described by Smith and I have little doult that the identification is correct.
Smith's description reads as if the thorax were yellow but of course this was not intended.
A different Ceratma also taken at Chapada in December is apparently the uudescribed 9 of C. vlridula Sm It is a brilliant insect and the face is without light markings.
Temnosoma metallicum Smith var.
chapadae n. var.
9.
 Differs from Smith's description of metallicum by the larger size about 8 J mm.
 mandibles green at base scape green mesothorax closely and more or less confluently punctured  wings little iridescent not noticeably clouded at apex tarsi practically black basal joint of hind tarsi green abdomen with purple reflections basal margin of second and third segments brilliant purple.
Enclosure of metathorax sculptured as Smith describes for metallicuDi.
S'.
 1 mm.
long similar to the  abdomen with scarcely any purple.
Hah.
 Chapada March d and  also in November.
Probably a valid species but I leave it as a variety until I can compare it with authentic material of T. metallicum.
The following table will facilitate the determination of Temnosoma  Abdomen impunctate T. Icevigatwn Sm.
Abdomen punctate 1 .
1.
Margin of metathoracic enclosure smooth T. ceruginosumSm.
Margin of metathoracic enclosure transversely striate  .
2.
2.
Wings smoky Mexico T. smaragdinum Sm.
Wings almost clear Brazil T. vietallicwn Sm.
and var.
chapadce Ckll.
T. smaragdinum occurs as far north as San Rafael Vera Cruz Mexico where Townseud took it at flowers of Cordia at the end of June.
Corynura atromarginata n. sp.
.
 Length Sh mm. dull from the excessively close punctures black lateral projections of prothorax hind margin of mesothorax very narrowly postscutellum and metathorax greenish sides of basal segment of abdomen and extreme base of second segment also green clypeus prominent with rather sparse large punctures on a tessellated surface mandibles long and dark antennae dark scape long flagellura brownish beneath and delicately pubescent tegulffi very dark brown base of metathorax with oblique radiating strife Avings hyaline the costal margin including the marginal cell very broadly dark fuliginous as in some Tachinidaj legs very dark reddishbrown abdomen with long white hairs beneath puuctures of first dorsal segment of abdomen stronger and less dense than on second which has the punctures minute and as close as is possible hind spur of hind tibia pectinate with three large teeth.
Hah.
 Chapada March and April five specimens.
Very close to the Mexican C discolor Smith thus adding another to the now rather numerous instances of Brazilian bees representative of but not identical with those of Mexico or the adjacent parts of the United States.
This might be held to differ subgenerically from the type of Corynura but in that case Cacosoma Smith is not available because of the prior Cacosoma Felder 174.
C. atromarg Inata is one of five species flying at Chapada all having the first recurrent nervure interstitial with the second transversocubital and the mesothorax very densely punctured.
These species are readily distinguished as follows  Costa fuliginous from base to marginal cell atromarginata n.
sp. 9.
Costa not fuliginous from the base or not at all .... 1.
1.
Abdomen long and narrow clavate like Baccha clavata .
2.
Abdomen oval or suboval hardly or not clavate ... 3.
2.
Head and thorax bright goldengreen pseudobaccha n.
sp. cf.
Head and thorax dark suliused with olivegreen jucmida Smith cf.
3.
Marginal cell fuliginous .... semimarginatan.
s. .
Tip of wing only fuliginous .... chapadicola u.
sp. 9.
Corynura jucunda Sinith'i n. syn.
C. senigma Gribodo.
Hah.
 Chapada December 2 cJ.
So far as I can make out C. jucunda and cenigma are the same and identical with the insect now before me.
This gives it a range from S. Paulo and Chapada Brazil to Rioja Argentine Kcpublic the extremes being about 1250 miles apart.
In view of what Sichel states about the two sexes of Corynura it seems likely that C. semimarg inata or C. chapadicola may prove to be the 9 of C. jucunda but as I have no proof of this I treat both for the present as distinct.
Corynura pseudobaccha n. sp.
cJ.
 Length about 8 mm.
 size and form of C. jueunda but easily distinguished by its very brilliant goldengreen head and thorax the green of the abdomen also is bright occupying the sides of the first segment the bases of the second third and most of the fourth and fifth segments.
Clypeus very prominent with large punctures on a shining surface cheeks and sides of face with short white hair antennae very long flagellum ferruginous beneath tegulas bright reddishtestaceous wings dusky at tips nervures and stigma very dark brown second submarginal cell narrow femora and tibiie green knees ends of tibire and all of tarsi light ferruginous.
Hab.
 Chapada January and November 3 d.
Corynura semiinarginata n. sp.
9.
 Length about 8 mm.
 rather robust black with green on sides of face hind edge of mesothorax scutellum poslscutellum upper parts of metathorax and basal portions of the abdominal segments  first abdominal segment subpetiolate decidedly longer than broad bright ferruginous at its extreme base antennse dark scape long redbrown wings with the marginal cell and beyond fuliginous stigma and nervures dark brown  second submarginal cell not so narrow as in the last species inner loNAer angle of third submarginal less than a right angle whereas in pseudobaccha it is quite a right angle  basal area of metathorax with oblique radiating striie and some transverse ones posteriorly recalling the sculpture of Temnosoma vietallicum  first abdominal segment with sparse weak punctures second finely rugulose with close minute punctures  hind spur of hind tibia pectinate with large teeth.
Hab.
 Chapada April and November 2.
Allied to C. agile Smith.
Corynura' cliapadicola n. sp.
.
 Length about 8 mm.
 robust black sides of face and hind margin of mesothorax very narrowly dark green  legs very dark reddishbrown with the pubescence mostly black or nearly so abdomen uith the first two segments black the extreme base of the second green the remaining segments golden green largely covered with very fine appressed yellowish pubescence with black bristles intermixed  antenniie dark brown flagellum ferruginous at extreme tip  tegulre very dark brown  Aviugs hyaline apex fuliginous nervures and stigma sepiabrown clypeus with large sparse punctures on a tessellate surface  mesothorax microscopically tessellate dull with numerous minute punctures and scattered black liairs  basal area of metathorax not defined with feeble oblique stride  lower inner angle of third submarginal cell less than a right angle most of basal segment of abdomen smooth and shining but its apical portion and all of second segment rough and minutely sculptured under side of abdomen with long yellowishwhite hair hind spur of hind tibia pectinate with three large blunt teeth.
The basal segment of the abdomen is broader than long thus much broader than in the last species.
Hah.
 Chapada January March September November December 83 specimens.
The middle of the third abdominal segment is often black.
This species evidently belongs with Corynura  but at least in Ihe  it has the abdomen formed as in Augochlora.
The maxillary palpi have six subequal joints the first two stout the third subtriangular.
In all the species of Conjnura the anterior part of the mesothorax overlaps the middle of the prothorax and in C. chajKidicola this is particularly well marked the projecting portion being bilobed.
CORYNUROPSIS n. subg.
First recurrent nervure received by second submarginal cell before its end mesothorax smooth and shining with strong very sparse punctures its anterior morgin prominently overlapping prothorax hind spur of hind tibia of 9 pectinate with large teeth.
Type C. danvini n. sp.
Corynura Corynuropsis darwini n. sp.
.
 Length about 7 mm.
 head circular a trifle broader than thorax dark ellowishgreen eyes emarginate sides of face with appressed pale plumose hair clypeus short it and the supraclypeal area with numerous very large punctures ocelli small and close together front densely and closely punctured labrum biuodulose mandibles ferruginous at apex mesothorax shining purpleblack with large sparse punctures parapsidal grooves very deep other parts of thorax dark green pleura with thin white pubescence base of metathorax smooth and shining with a deep transverse 1901.
ATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA.
221 sulcus truncation of metathorax with a deep longitudiaal groove tegule shining redbrown not punclured wings rather dusky especially at tips minutely but conspicuously hairy  nervures and stigma dark brown second submarginal cell narrow legs dark redbrown anterior tibite and tarsi ferruginous abdomen with a decided constriction between first and second segments first segment only moderately narrowed at base first two segments piceous first with very large close punctures second with large and small punctures on its anterior half extreme base greenish remaining segments greenish pruinose with a short pubescence their hind margins testaceous antennie dark flagellum ferruginous beneath at apex.
d.  Length about 6 mm.
 similar to 9 but narrower especially the abdomen  antennse much longer flagellum dark at apex anterior femora tibiae and tarsi entirely bright ferruginous second abdominal segment with large punctures like first fourth ventral abdominal segment emarginate.
Hab.
 Chapada 4cJ 1
 January December.
Corynura Corynuropsis sublata n. sp.
9.
 Length about 8 mm. more robust than C. darwini with the first abdominal segment broader eyes somewhat more parallel mesothorax more decidedly purplish  wings perhaps a little browner supraclypeal area more or less coppery red.
Hub.
 Chapada 1 9  December.
Perhaps only a variety of the last but it is larger and seems distinct.
The pleura is roughened and has also sparse shallow punctures.
In C. darwini the second abdominal segment is conspicuously wider than the first widening from its base to iis nind margin in C. sublata the second segment has nearly parallel sides and is very little wider than the first.
AugocMora calli chroma n. sp.
.
 Length about 5 mm.
 head and thorax brilliant golden green legs honeycolor abdomen pale ferruginous with darkbrown blotches small at sides of first segment large at sides of second covering all of third except a variable patch on disk and also occupying the whole of fourth and fifth segments so that the hind portion of the abdomen is dark brown at each extreme side of segments 2 to 5 quite at the base is a clear yellow triangle with its apex directed mesad clijpeus icith a broad apical yellow band which sends a projection upward in the middle line mandibles yellow.
feiTuginous at ends labial palpi 4ioiuted ihe last joint smallest antennse dark brown above yellow beneath the scape long and slender mesothorax with very numerous minute punctures scutellum sculptured like mesothorax basal area of metathorax microscopically tessellate the lines mostly running in a transverse direction abdomen impunctate hind spur of hind tihice pectinate with only three teeth tegulre pale testaceous wings faintly dusky at tips nervures and stigma dark brown first recurrent nervure not quite interstitial with the second transversocubital being just the least before it.
Hab.
 Chapada December January five examples.
This may be compared wuth A. nana Smith and A. festivaga Dalla Torre but it is quite distinct by the yellow markings on the abdo men and other characters.
It has a certain superficial resemblance to the genus Nomioides.
AugocMora beatissima nsp.
.
 Length 5 mm.
 head cordate shining yellowishgreen  eyes only shallowly emarginate clypeus with strong scattered punctures its anterior half testaceous its lower margin with a fringe of orange hairs supraclypeal area smooth and shining with a very few punctures  mandibles yellowish dark at apex and extreme base scape piceous flagellum dull orangetestaceous except at base thorax brilliant bluishgreen the mesothorax and scutellum purple the hind margin of the mesothorax very narrowly the margins and a central band of the scutellum golden tubercles yellow tegulse testaceous yellow at base mesothorax and scutellum minutely lineolate with very sparse weak punctures basal area of metathorax not at all defined minutely transversely lineolate pleura with scattered short white hairs legs reddishbrown more or less dark anterior femora apically anterior tibiae and tarsi chrome yellow hind spur of hind tibia pectinate wings dusky nervures and stigma very dark brown lower inner angle of third submarginal cell a trifle greater than a right angle abdomen piceous scantily hairy posteriorly the hind margins of the second and third segments broadly dark ferruginous.
Hab.
 Chapada January one 9.
A beautiful little thing.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE TYMPANOEITSTACHIAN PASSAGE AND ASSOCIATED STRUCTURES IN THE COMMON TOAD BUFO LENTIGINOSUS.
BY HENRY FOX.
A perusal of the literature relating to the subject reveals the Existence of considerable diversity of opinion among investigators as to the exact morphological significance of the tympanoEustachian passage of the higher vertebrates.
So far as its adult structure and relations are concerned the passage would seem to be the homologue of the spiracle or hyomandibular cleft of the elasmobrauch fishes.
Both structures occupy the same relative position between the mandibular and hyoid arches and moreover above the dorsal margin of each the facial nerve divides into its two main branches one of which the ramus palatiuus courses in front of the cleft or tube as in the higher forms while the other the ramus hyomandibularis extends ventrally along its posterior wall.
Embryologists however in studying the development of the tympanoEustachian passage in various species of the higher vertebrates have found that its homology with the hyomandibular cleft is not so clearly expressed as the mature structure of the organ would lead one to infer so that certain morphologists basing their conclusions on the facts revealed by embryology hold that the tympanoEustachian passage is a structure entirely or in large part independent of the hyomandibular cleft.
In order to determine if possible the exact relation of the tympanoEustachian passage to the hyomandibular cleft I undertook to follow out its entire embryonic history in the common toad of ihe eastern United States Bufo lentighiosus. Contributions to the knowledge of the development of the structures under consideration had been made in the case of the Anura by Goette  The investigations have been made in the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania.
 Entwkklungsgcschichte der Unke Bomhinator igneus Leipzig 1875.
Villy and Gaupp.''
Shortly after I had begun the present research a very important paper on the subject by Dr. Hans Spemann appeared treating of the earlier stages in the development of the Eustachian tube in Rana temporaria. All the investigators mentioned state that the development of the tympanoEustachian passage in the forms studied is a very indirect one and that it can be traced only v.'ith considerable difficulty.
This difficulty is attributed to the almost complete atrophy of the hyomandibular cleft which at an early period becomes so greatly reduced as to be readily overlooked unless special attention is bestowed on it.
Of the investigators mentioned Goette correctly described the degeneration of the hyomaudibular cleft but his other results concex'niug the development of the Eustachian tube may be disregarded since his investigations were conducted at a time when less favorable methods were at his disposal than we have at present.
From the results arrived at by the other three investigators a fairly complete history of the Eustachian tube may be made out in the case of Rana temjoraria.
Of these the work of Villy covers fairly well the period of the metamorphosis although his descriptions are somewhat inexact and his conclusion that the Eustachian tube '' has almost certainly nothing to do with the hyomaudibular cleft and that  the evidence oliered by the frog tends to show that the two organs have no connection whatever with each other is certainly unsound since such a connection between the two has been established by the very careful work of Spemann on the earlier stages of ihe tube in the same species.
The correctness of Spemann' s conclusions are corroborated by the results which I have obtained in Bufo.
Gaupp's chief contribution consists in his calling attention to the appearance of the tubal Anlage at a stage earlier than that in which it was first observed by Villy.
For further information concerning the results arrived at by these investigators the reader is referred to the papers mentioned.
 The Development of the Ear and Accessory Organs in the Common Frog Kana temporaria Quar.
Jour of Micros.
Sci. 1890.
  Beitriige zur Morphologic des Schiidels I Primordialcranium von Kanafusca 3forph.
Arb. Y 2 1893.
'Spemann  Ueber die erste Eutwicklung der Tuba Eustachii iind des Kopfskelets von Eana temporaria Zoologische Jatrbijcher 1898.
 As for instance he speaks of the tube as extending forward beneath tbe palatopterygoid bar which it never docs but instead passes beneath the quadrate.
Moreover his figures shoAV it in the latter position.
I. Observations and Results.
I now turn to the description of the development of the tjmpanoEustachian passage in the common toad.
In this undertaking I shall first treat in detail the condition and relations of the structures under consideration in the different stages beginning with the earliest and then at the end of the paper summarize the chief features of this development.
Stage I PI.
VI fig.
1.
 I begin at a stage when the hitherto almost spherical embryo has elongated and when the tail has grown out as a short stump.
No external gills are as yet apparent.
The head has become diffei'entiated from the boJy proper and the region immediately posterior to it is marked by two or three slight dorsiventral grooves indicating the position of the future branchialclefts.
PI.
VI fig.
1 is a coronal section of the anterior portion of an embryo of this stage.
The section is slightly oblique the right side being cut at a higher plane than the left.
In this figure one will notice that the anterior extremity of the pharynx is still separated from the exterior the conjoined eudoderm and ectoderm forming at this point a solid partition of cells  the stomatodeal plate si..
From this region posteriorly the cavity of the pharynx gradually widens out until it forms a spacious chamber the sides of which are marked by four dorsoventral grooves marking the inner openings of the visceralclefts.
Just back of the fourth visceralcleft the cavity narrows very suddenly to form the lumen of the oesophagus.
As shown by the figure there are only four visceralclefts Hym. 24 v..
marked out at the present stage.
With the exception of the fourth each of the clefts extends outward as a solid doublelayered plate of eudoderm continuous at its inner end with the epithelial lining of the pharynx and externally in contact with the deeper layer of the ectoderm.
Only the medial portion of each cleft shows a lumen.
The fourth visceralcleft resembles the others except that it does not as yet quite reach the epiblast.
 In the drawing the distal extremities of the clefts are shown separated by a narrow clear area from this layer but this coudiiion I think uiust have been produced by shrinkage a supposition which receives support froni the rough and irregular character of the distal edge.
15 Between the visceralclef ts intervene the visceralarches.
The interior of each arch is made up of a mass of rather compact mesenchyme consisting of scattered cells containing numerous large yolkspheres barely distinguishable from those occurring in the endodermic lining of the pharynx.
From this circumstance the limits of the endoderm are somewhat difficult to define clearly and accordingly considerable care had to be taken in outlining it.
The endoderm is however much more densely crowded with yolkspheres and hence appears as a darker layer more or less clearly marked off from the surrounding lighter mesenchyme.
Four visceralarches are clearly differentiated the two anterior of which are the mandibular k.m.
and hyoid h.in.
arches while the other two are the tirst and second branchialarches.
In the former two a somewhat dense patch of mesenchyme can be seen occupying the centre of each.
These patches are the Anlagen of the future muscles of these arches h.m. and h.m..
An examination of the remaining sections of the series to which fig.
1 belongs shows that the pharyngeal cavity retains approximately the same size throughout its entire dorseventral extent and that throughout their entire length the visceralclefts have about the same direction and relations as shown in the figure.
Hence we may look upon the clefts as being solid folds of endoderm compressed anteroposteriorly and elongated dorsoventrally.
Throughout their entire extent the first three clefts arc apparently in contact with the deeper layer of the ectoderm.
The first or hyomandibular cleft resembles the other clefts in all essential respects except that it extends slightly forward whereas the second extends transversely outward while the remaining two course obliquely backward.
A section of the cleft in almost any coronal plane presents the condition shown in the figure.
Immediately dorsal to the outer extremity of the cleft the distal portion of the facial ganglion becomes continuous with the deeper or sensory layer of the ectoderm.
Stage II Pis.
VI VII figs.
27. In this stage all five visceralclefts are present none of which opens to the exterior.
The mouth is still separated from the pharynx by the stomatodeal plate.
The external gills have budded forth as two minute blunt undivided processes from the sides of the first and second visceralarches.
In specimens of the present stage the Anlagen of thft various structures have so far differentiated that they are in most cases readily recognizable.
The mesenchyme is less compact than hitherto.
The Anlagen of the muscles are particularly well marked out as prominent patches of densely aggregated mesenchyme cells containing numerous yolkspherules.
The bloodvessels also have begun to form in the head region.
PI.
VI figs.
2 3 and 4 are coronal sections of a tadpole of this stage.
Of these fig.
2 was taken at a plane a slight distance above the floor of the pharynx.
Comparing it with fig.
1 we find that anteriorly the stomatodeal invagination d. has deepened very considerably although as yet not communicating with the pharyngeal cavity.
The latter has much the same form as in fig.
1 except that posteriorly an additional visceralcleft is present.
Of these clefts the most anterior the hyomandibular Stjm can be seen as a narrow solid diverticulum of the pharyngeal wall extending outward and terminating bluntly in the mesenchyme a short distance below the external ectoderm.
All the remaining cleft outgrowths reach to and blend with the external ectoderm although as yet not opening to the exterior.
Within the body of each of the two anterior visceralarches i.e. mandibular and hyoid  the muscles can be made out as ixTegularly defined patches of denser mesenchyme.
That in the mandibular arch is the Anlage of the muscles of mastication k.m.
 while that in the hyoid arch is the Anlage of the depressor mandibulse  depressor ossis hyoidei' h.m..
Anterior to the first cleft is a small vessel the mandibular aortic arch m.a.
 while on the left of the figure another vessel is to be seen posterior to the cleft.
The latter is the hyoidean aortic arch i..
.
PI.
VI fig.
3 is taken at a considerably higher level.
On the right side we have passed above the dorsal margins of the visceralclefts so that the latter are shown only on the left side.
This section passes in a plane approximately on a level with the base of the brain the small dark patch in the median hue in front of the pharyngeal cavity being the floor of the iufuudibulum inf..
The hyomandibular fold can be seen extending outward and slightly forward.
It will also be noticed that its distal end approaches the ' Spemann includes these two muscles under the term  orbitohyoideus. '
 A word of explanation is necessary concerning my use of the terms distal and proximal.
Ordinarily these terms are used only in connection skin more closely than in fig.
2.
In fig.
4 we see the fold at it dorsal origin from the pharyngeal wall Hym..
Here it is to be seen as a rather wide shallow blunt diverticulum of the latter.
In the sections intervening between this and fig.
3 the distal end progressively moves peripherally as we pass down until it comes to occupy the position shown in the latter figure.
Hence the dorsal edge of the cleft is higher in its proximal portion than in its distal part.
In fig.
4 it will also be noticed that the proximal portion of the cleft in its dorsal portion approaches very closely to the origin of the second visceral cleft.
In the other two figures the cleft is separated throughout by a considerable interval from the second cleft.
It follows from this that as it descends the plane of the first cleft moves forward also.
Grouping the facts so far obtained we find the hyomandibular cleft as a solid twolayered diverticulum of the pharyngeal wall which extends outward and somewhat forward to a point a short distance removed from the external ectoderm.
Here it terminates in a blunt rounded edge extending downward and slightly forward and presenting throughout its course no wellmarked indentations or depressions.
Above and below however the outer edge gradually recedes more and more from the skin until it blends imperceptibly with the lining of the pharyngeal cavity.
The edge thus has the form of a gentle arch.
In general the cleft outgrowth is elongated dorsoventrally but it also is directed obliquely forward.
This forward direction is more pronounced in its dorsal than in its ventral portion.
In its lower portion the cleft is widely separated from the second visceralcleft but in its dorsoposterior portion it approaches the latter very closely particularly in its proximal internal part.
These observations are further confirmed by transverse sections Pis.
VI VII figs.
57.
In fig.
5 the hyomandibular cleft can be seen as a short blunt diverticulum from the inferior outer angle of the pharynx Hym..
The cleft here is cut through its anterowith processes or appendages of the body.
In the present paper however I designate by distal Ihatpoition of the hyomandibular fold or of its deriative.
the Eustachian cord vvhicli is farthest removed from its connection with the pharynx wliile I eniphy the term proximal  to denote tliat part of the same structure which is nearest the point of orijiin from the pharynx.
My use of thee terms in connection with the structure mentioned is due to the necessity of liaving some fixed term to apply to each of its extremities the relative position of which vary in the difiereut stages.
ventral portion.
In the fifth section posterior to this fig.
6 the cleft is cut throughout the greater part of its dorso ventral extent and hence appears as a broad solid mass extending out from the side of the pharynx and reaching nearly to the skin where it all but meets a slight papilla projecting inward from the latter Hyih..
This figure also reveals another feature of the cleftoutgrowth which is of particular importance.
Il will be noted that it is the upper portion of the cleftfold which approaches most nearly the skin whereas the ventral portion recedes gradually from it as we descend.
About the middle of this ventral portion is a small indentation in the outer edge occupied by a small bloodvessel x.
.
It will be also noticed that the proximal inner portion of the cleft is situated at a. higher level than in fig.
5.
From this it follows that the line of origin of the fold from the pharynx extends from below upward and backward.
Posterior to this region the hyomandibular fold bends more sharply backward and accordingly in transverse section appears considerably narrower fig.
7 Hipn. right side.
We next obtain the cmdition shown in fig.
5 left side where the fold Hym.
ig cut approximately at right angles to its surface and hence appears extremely narrow.
Below the fold is a large oval mass the Anlage of the hyoidean muscles i.e. depreisor mandibuhe and depressor ossis hyoidei h.m.'.
Spemanu has noticed a relation between the subsequent development of these muscles and the degeneration of the hyomandibular fold.
I have found the same relation to exist in Bnfo but shall call attention to it later.
The fold next enlarges somewhat and then gradually receding moie and more from the exterior blends imperceptibly with the pharyngeal wall.
These stages are show'n consecutively in figs.
6 and 7 left sides.
The transverse sections also show some structural features which are of impurtance in tracing certain stages in the subsequent history of the cleftfold.
Anterior to the cleft is the efferent mandibular aortic artery a branch from the carotid.
At the present stage this vessel is rather difficult to trace but with some care can be worked out.
Since owing to the general antei'oventral direction taken by the plane of the hyomandibular fold the anterior wall of the latter faces forward and also upward it follows that in transverse section structures anterior to the fold will be seen dorsal to it.
Thus in the figures the region immediately dorsal to the fold is the mandibular arch whereas that ventral to it is the hyoid arch.
In fig.
7 the efferent portion of the mandibular aortic arch can be seen as a transversely placed vessel m.a'.
just above the roof of the pharynx and extending outward above the hyomandibular diverticulum.
Internally the vessel unites with the carotid car..
The course of the mandibular aortic arch can be followed by comparing the figures.
At first it is very small as seen in fig.
5 n.a'..
Tracing it forward however it is soon found to be continuous with a much larger vessel with a Avellmarked lumen.
This vessel is the afferent portion of the mandibular aortic arch m.a.
Immediately beneath the antcroinferior extremity of the hyomandibular fold the mandibular aoitic arch is joined by the hyoidean aortic arch and the common trunk thus formed communicates with the large inferior jugular sinuses beneath the mouth.
The other structure to which I desire to call attention is the hyomandibular ramus of the facial nerve.
The facial ganglion at present lies just back of and above the dorsal margin of the hyomandibular fold.
The anterior edge of the ganglion is in actual contact with the outer margin of the fold fig.
7 vii.
From the ventral surface of the ganglion the hyomandibular ramus fig.
6 vil h. is given off as a large nerve supplying the muscles of the hyoid arch.
It is hence posterior to the hyomandibular fold.
Stage Pis.
VII VIII figs.
1014 1618. Young tadpole.
External gills prominent and considerably branched not covered as yet to any marked extent by the opercular fold.
Third visceralcleft opening to the exterior.
Mouth communicating with pharynx.
The tail has attained its full development.
A considerable departure from the conditions observed in the preceding stage is shown in the present.
The different organs are uite clearly differentiated while the Anlngen of the more important cartilages can be made out as dense aggregations of the mesenchyme.
The first visceralcleft especially has undergone marked modifications.
We can follow out its course by comparing figs.
1014.
Consulting fig.
10 we notice that the pharyngeal wall is separated from the exterior by a considerable interval occupied by scattered mesenchyme cells which in the region immediately surrounding the pharynx are segregating to form the AnJagen of the skeletal structures.
Since it will be necessary hereafter in studying the development of the Eustachian tube to take into consideration the modifications undergone by the neighboring skeletal parts it may be well to point out these parts in the present stage.
The very dense segregated mass which may be seen in fig.
10 3.
and Q.
 immediately external to and beneath the pharynx is the Anlage of the cartilagiuous mandibular arch.
That portion of the arch which underlies the pharynx is the mandibular or leckel's cartilage M. while that external to it is the quadrate or suspensorium Q.
In the figure there is no distinct separation between these two portions but more anteriorly the mandibular Anlaxje can be seen to be separated from the quadrate b'' a slight space in which the mesenchyme cells are less densely aggregated fig.
11 M.  shown here owing to the oblique section the left side being cut more anteriorh'than the right.
In fig.
10 i. 
only the most posterior part of the mandible can be seen.
The mandible as in all anuran tadpoles extends transversely beneath the floor of the mouth.
External to the lateral wall of the pharynx right side is the quadrate cartilage  Q.
 which ventrally becomes continuous with the mandible and at the same point sends upward and outward a strong process the orbital process or processus muscularis Pr.M.
Gaupp.
This process with the inner portion of the quadrate forms a deep concavity underlying tlie eye and containing the muscles of mastication.
That portion of tlie quadrate which lies in contact with the pharyngeal wall is the palatopterygoid process or commissura quadralocranialis anterior of Gaupp fig.
11 Pr.q.c.a..
At its dorsal extremity this part approaches but is still separated from a patch of dense tissue in immediate contact with the dorsolateral border of the pharynx the Anlage of the trabecula cranii Tr..
On the right side of fig.
11 fourth section posterior to that of fig.
10 the mandibular cartilage has been passed and in its stead we find a very slight aggregation of mesenchyme forming a portion of the cartilaginous hyoid bar.
The trabecula cranii of the same side has become much less distinct and in the third section following fig.
12 has ceased to be any longer distinguishable from the surrounding mesenchyme.
The trabecule cranii at present are thus mai'ked out only in their more anterior portion.
Of the quadrate cartilage we have only the body with its processus muscularis having passed beyond the transversely placed commissure quadratocranialis anterior palatopterygoid.
Of the quadrate the outer distal portion of the processus muscularis is most distinct at the present stage.
Above this process are the muscles of mastication .m.
already mentioned while to its outer or ventral surface are attached two muscles the depressor mandibula
m.d.m. and depressor ossis hyoidei m.d.h..
Between these two muscles courses the ramus hyomandibularis of the facial nerve vii h..
Both of these muscles belong to the hyoid or second visceralarch and have been differentiated out of the common muscle mass of that arch.
The quadrate in the region posterior to that just considered blends gradually and imperceptibly with the surrounding mesenchyme.
This can be followed by examining the figures consecutively.
We will now turn to the consideration of the hyomandibular fold in the present stage.
In fig.
12 the rhomboidal cavity of the pharynx is sharply prolonged at its right veutrolateral angle and from the wall of the cavity immediately above this prolongation a narrow solid cord rep'esenting an extension of the wall extends upward and outward in close contact with the ventral surface of the processus muscularis Eu..
Just internal to its blind distal extremity can be seen a small vessel interposed between the cord and the cartilage.
This vessel is the mandibular aortic arch.
Ventral to the cord is a semicircular mass of procartilage in the hollow of which is placed the depressor mandibulffi.
This is the Anlage of the hyoid a more complete view of which can be obtained in fig.
13 H.'.
The hyoid like the mandible is a stout thick bar placed transversely beneath the floor of the pharynx and separated from its fellow in the midline by a less compact tissue.
Anteriorly the two aie searated by the thyroid gland outgrowth TA..
At its outer extremity the hyoid turns sharply upward as a flattened plate with a concave outer surface in which is lodged as already mentioned the depressor mandibuhw Its inner surface is closely applied to the outer and ventral wall of the hyomandibular fold Eu..
In the region posterior to that shown in fig.
12 the hyomandibular fold presents much the same appearance as in tiie last stage compare figs.
13 and 14 with G and 7.
It will be noticed howver that the fold is considerably narrower than in the precednig stage and also that its distal extremity is much farther removed from the external surface.
This condition Avill be more fully coiisidered presently.
The narrowing of the fold however is more apparent than real.
If one will bear in mind the statement already made that the fold extends downward and obliquely forward a true explanation of the difference will suggest itself.
Naturally a section which passes through in the same plane as that of the fold will show the latter as a broad mass.
This explains the appearance of the fold as shown in fig.
6 right side.
In this figure the section on the right side passes through the eye whereas on the left side it passes some distance behind the eye.
Hence the section traverses the right side in an obliquely forward direction thus coinciding in the main with the plane of the fold.
In the same specimen the fold on the left side is cut throughout transversely so that except in its most posterior portion it appears as a narrow twolayered lamina.
It is in its distal anterior portion that the hyoraandibular fold has undergone its greatest modification.
In fig.
12 the fold is continuous with the wall of the jharynx.
In fig.
11 which is the third section anterior to that of fig.
12 this connection no longer exists.
The fold appears as a solid somewhat flattened cord Ea.
 closely underlying the upper outer extremity of the processus muscularis.
Its internal surface is in intimate contact with the mandibular aortic arch m.a.
 while externally the two muscles of the hyoid arch  i.e. depressor mandibulaj m.d.m.
and depressor ossis hyoidei m.d.h.
 approach it very closely.
The proximal portion of the anterior part of the fold can be seen in the figure as a relatively broad diverticulum from the wall of the outer inferior angle of the pharynx Hym..
Anterior to the region just considered this cordlike extension of the fold extends forward a short distance and then bends sharply outward in front of the two muscles just mentioned fig.
18 Hym. right side.
In this region it enlarges considerably and finally terminates as a blind bulbous sw'eDing in the mesenchyme a short distance below the external epithelium.
This part is shown in fig.
10 Tym.
 also in fig.
17 Ttjm..
Perhaps a clearer conception of the state of the fold may be gained by a comparison with some coronal sections.
In fig.
16 we have sucli a section in which however the phiue is lower on the light side than on the left.
Commencing below we observe on the right of the figure a short blunt diverticulum of the pharyngeal Avail extending outward and slightly forward between the Anlafen of the mandibular and hyoid cartilages.
This part corresponds to broad proximal portion of the fold shown in fig.
11 as continuous with the pharyngeal wall.
In the fourth section dorsal to this fig.
17 the same portion of the fold is still seen and just external to its distal extremity is an elongated strand of like nature Ttm.
' somewhat swollen in its outer portion where it terminates just beneath the external epithelium.
This part is the swollen poriion of the cleft which as already mentioned extends out in front of the hyoidean muscles and forms the distal expanded portion of the cordlike extension of the fold.
In the second section above this fig.
18 these two parts of the fold join so that it now appears continuous throughout Htn..
The present section gives a very good view of the course taken by the hyomaudibular fold.
One will observe that it has a very broad origin from the pharyngeal wall and that from this point it extends outward and also considerably forward.
In its middle portion the fold is considerably constricted while in its distal outer extremity it is enlarged to form the swollen bulbous portion which curves outward in front of the hyoidean muscles as is well shown in the figure.
One notices that in fig.
18 the outer distal extremity of the fold is farther removed from the exterior than in fig.
17.
If the left side of fig.
16 Hym.
 which represents a plane slightly more dorsal than that of the right of fig.
18  be now consulted it will b3 seen that this portion is still farther removed from the exterior and by comparing the same fold Hym.
in the following two figures 17 and 18 the distance between the two will be seen to be still more increased.
In the latter two figures the fold approaches very closely the proximal portion of the second visceralcleft 3 V.J.
 a feature to which we have already called attention.
Bringing together the facts so far obtained relating to the third stage we shall now endeavor to form a conception of the hyomandibular fold as a whole.
It arises as a solid fold of the wall of the pharynx and extends downward and obliquely forward as a thin plate between the first and second visceralarches.
Its origin from the pharynx extends downward and forward beginning above just anterior to the dorsal origin of the second visceralcleft figs.
14 17 18 Hijm.
and terminating at the position of the future quadratomandibular articulation fig.
10 Hym..
The outer or distal border begins dorsally in continuity with the roof of the pharynx fig.
14 Hym.
 and then extends in a gentle curve downward outward and forward until it reaches the point where the distal cordlike extension is given off and which I shall now designate as the  diverticulum.
The latter is at first a flattened cord fig.
11 Eu.
 which at first extends forward a short distance but when it reaches the anterior border ot the depressor ossis hyoidei turns sharpl' outward and slightly dowuwai'd in front of the latter and then expands to form a solid bulbous swelling which terminates blindly in the mesenchyme a short distance below the external ectoderm figs.
10 17 Tym.
 also fig.
18 Hym..
This portion of the hyoraandibular fold is the only part which comes into close proximity with the external epithelium.
The remainder of the fold lies at a considerably deeper level.
The distal border of the latter below the origin of the  diverticulum bends downward and inward and at its ventral end blends with the floor of the jDharyux figs.
10 11 Hym.
 12 13 14 Hym.
leftside 16 17 right.
This portion of the distal border is continuous with the ventral border of the  diverticulum and owing to the slightly downward direction taken by the latter forms with it a shallow sinus or depression the concavity of which faces downward and outward.
By its anterior surface the hyomandibular fold is in close contact with the quadrate although partly separated from it by the mandibular aortic arch Qm.a..
Owing to the obliquely anterior direction taken by the hyomandibular fold this surface faces both forward and upward so that in transverse sections it appears as the dorsal border.
Hence it follows that all structures found above the fold are anterior to it whereas those ventral to it are posterior.
The posterior surface faces backward and downward and has in close relation the Anlagen of the hyoid cartilage and associated muscles.
Between the two muscles is the ramus hyomaudibularis of the facial nerve vii h. which occupies its definitive position posterior to the hyomandibular fold.'
'The reader will do well to consult figure 3 of Dr. Spemann's paper which shows a reconstructiou of the hyomandibular fold of liana teni'poraria at a similar s'age.
I find tbat the fold in B'lfo lentiyinosus is in all essential respects similar.
It now remains for us to oint out the differences between the hyomandibular fold in the present and preceding stages and if possible to ascertain how such differences have been produced.
In the first place one will recall that the outer border of the fold in the last stage described a gentle curve arching from above downward and forward and that throughout the greater part of its length this boi'der approached very closely the external epiblast.
In the present stage the arch described by the outer border ie interrupted about its middle by a clubshaped  diverticulum which again is the onl portion of the fold which approaches closely the external epithelium.
The remainder of the outer border lies a considerable distance below the skin.
Again a comparison of coronal sections shows that the anterior extension of the fold is more marked than in the earlier stage.
Hence there are at least three differences to be accounted for i.e. 1 the recession of the outer border of the fold from the external epithelium 2 the formatiou of the blind distal  diverticulum which still retains the original position of the fold near the skin and 3 the more anterior dii'ection taken by the fold.
In order to account for these changes it is evident that at least two factors must be borne in mind.
These are 1 the growth process  i.e. the general increase in size of the parts in accordance with the growth of the individual  and 2 the differentiation of new structures.
First as regards the recession of the outer border of the fold from the skin By comparing the figures illustrating the two stages one will observe that a considerable increase in the transverse diameter of the head has taken place whereas little if any increase has occurred iu the vertical plane.
On the other hand the pharynx has not increased concomitantly in size but instead has undergone an actual decrease so that it is not only relatively but also absolutely smaller in size than in the earlier stage.
However between the points of origin of the hyomandibular fold the pharyngeal cavity ietains approximately its original width a feature due to the fact that in this region it forms a pair of shallow evaginatious fig.
16.
The smaller size of the pharyngeal cavity can be readily made out in the transverse sections compare figs.
57 with 1014.
This reduction is in all probability connected with the increase in amount of mesenchyme and particularly with the segregation of the latter to form the Anlajen of the cartilages and muscles.
The cartilages are laid down close to the wall of the pharynx and with their increase in size the latter is naturally reduced while at the same time the increase in amount of the general mesenchyme accounts for the increase in width of the entire head.
As a consequence of the retarded growth of the pharynx and of the increase in width of the head it follows that unless there is sufficient rapidity of growth in the fold to compensate for the arrested growth of the pharynx the distal extremity of the hyomandibular fold will be removed more and more from the exterior and that ultimately it will come to lie quite deeply.
To such causes I think must be attributed the recession of the hyomandibular fold from the exterior.
The head has increased in width while the pharynx has remained stationary and even been reduced in size so that its appendage the fold quite naturally recedes from the ectoderm.
But this explanation suggests another problem Why does the fold not exhibit sufficient rapidity of growth to enable it to retain throughout its original position near the external epithelium as in the case of the remaining visceralclefts and moreover why does it retain this position at one point i.e. where the blind bulbous diverticulum terminates
This question brings us to our second topic  the formation of the  diverticulum.
This part is not I consider a new formation but merely that portion of the fold which has managed by its normal growth to retain its original position near the ectoderm.
In this connection I wish again to call attention to the condition in stage II.
The distal border then formed a gentle arch which for a considerable part of its extent was in close proximity to the skin.
However at both its dorsal and ventral extremities this border recedes progressively more and more from the exterior until finally it blends at both ends with the lining of the pharynx.
Hence in sections the dorsal and ventral portions of the distal border are seen at varying levels below the ectoderm while the crown of the arched plate is situated near the latter compare figs.
27.
Fig.
6 is instructive in this connection.
Take the fold as shown on the right side.
It will be seen that the distal edge is in close proximity to the ectoderm for a considerable part of its length.
However the upper portion of this border is closer to the ectoderm than the remainder.
This part represents a region slightly dorsal to the middle portion of the distal border.
Below this the edge recedes to a slight extent from the exterior and in its middle portion forms a slight barely perceptible depression.
If we now conceive that in the future growth of the animal all the lower portion of the distal edge remains stationary and that the middle depression deepens considerably while the upper portion alone remains in proximity to the ectoderm then we should obtain a condition very similar to that shown in fig.
12 except that complete outward extension of the fold is not shown in the figure see instead fig.
10.
In fig.
12 the arrested ventral portion can be seen as an extension of the right inferior angle of the pharynx while the concavity between it and the plateliiie hyomandibular fold is the muchdeepened depression see also fig.
11.
In the latter figure the lower portion of the fold can be seen as a blunt extension from the ventre lateral wall of the pharynx while the flattened oval mass external to and above it is the dorsal portion or as we have temporarily termed it the  diverticulum.
More posteriorly as shown in fig.
12 this  diverticulum  becomes continuous Avitli the proximal portion of the fold and accordingly the area embraced between these two portions anteriorly represents the depression which we saw beginning in fig.
6.
One will notice that in this area a muscle  the depressor mandibulse m.cZ.m.
 has just attained attachment to the Anlacje of the quadrate cartilage while external to it its companion muscle the depressor ossis hyoidei Qm.d.h.
 has acquired attachment to the tip of the processus muscularis.
The ''diverticulum lies between these two muscles and as already mentioned extends anteriorly between them until it reaches the anterior surface of the outer muscle depressor ossis hyoidei around which it curves outward fig.
10 also 17 and 18.
In the behavior of these two muscles lies the clue to the solution of the problem under consideration.
One will recall that both of these muscles belong originally to the hyoid arch and consequently their acquirement of attachment to he quadrate is a later affair.
In stage II the original hyoidean musclemass from which these two are subsequently differentiated extends in its long axis almost vertically and is situated entirely behind the hyomandibular fold see figs.
27.
Later however as the muscle increases in size its long axis becomes extended in an obliquely anterior direction tlie superior border faciDg forward.
At this time the commou muscle divides into an inner and anterior mass the depressor mandibular and an outer and posterior mass the depressor ossis hyoidei.
With subsequent growth both muscles extend forward more and more until one of them  the depressor mandibulse  invades the area intervening between the skin and the inferior portion of the distal edge of the hyomandibular fold at the point indicated by the slight depression shown in fig.
6 x.
Here its anterior extremity comes into close relation with the segregating Anlage of the quadrate at a point just in front of and below the fold.
The outer muscle  the depressor ossis hyoidei  also acquires attachment to the quadrate Anlage but at a point above and posterior to the fold.
I have just mentioned that the depressor mandibulae extends forward in the space between the lower portion of the distal border of the hyomandibular fold and the skin.
With this invasion an effective barrier is interposed betw'een the two  and as a result of the subsequent increase in size of the muscle and of the extension in Avidth of the head it follows that this lower portion of the hyomandibular fold will be arrested in its growth and will consequently come to be more and more removed from the exterior.
At the same time the segregation of the mesenchyme to form cartilage Anlagen interposes additional barriers to the outward growth of the fold.
Hence it is possible to understand why it is that the lower part of the fold should lie so far beneath tiie ectoderm as shown in the present stage figs.
11 16 17.
On the other hand the dorsal portion of the hyomandibular fold  i.e. that which forms the  diverticulum   is situated above the depx'essor mandibule so that the latter does not interfere with its normal growth and as a result this portion of the fold still retains its proximity to the skin.
With the increase in width of the head it has been carried outward with the skin.
In its proximal portion however this part also has been encroached upon by the developing depressor mandibulffi and as a result it presents the form of a longdrawnout cord narrow and flattened in its proximal part and swollen in its terminal part where it is not encroached upon to any great extent by the surrounding structures.
Along the dorsal edge of the fold no wellmarked changes so far as I have been able to determine seem to have taken place.
111 the figures particularly figs.
17 and 18 leftside one will notice that the distal extremity is removed some distance from the skin but this appearance I consider is simply produced by the obliquely ventral direction taken by the dorsal border as has been already described.
This brings us to our third problem i.e. the more pronounced anterior extension of the fold.
This I consider is correlated with the growth anteriorly of the two hyoidean muscles.
Naturally as these extend forward they carry the fold with them.
As a result of this the posterior surface of the fold comes to face outward and the anterior inward.
Hence in transverse sections structures external to the fold are also morphologically posterior whilst those internal to it are morphologically anterior compare transverse with coronal sections of present stage.
Stage IV.
 Young tadpole.
Opercular fold well developed ending freely posteriorly and with the ends of the external gills protruding beyond its posterior margin.
The various tissues for the most part clearly differentiated.
True cartilage developed in the mandibular and hyoid arches PI.
VIII figs.
15 19 PI.
IX figs.
23 24.
Beginning anteriorly the distal blind extremity of the  diverticulum  appears as a transversely extended cord of cells somewhat expanded distally lying in the loose mesenchyme some distance below the external epithelium fig.
24 Ttm..
This cord is clearly distinguished from the surrounding fibrous tissue by its greater density which naturally causes it to stain more deeply and also by the presence within its substance of yolk spherules and numerous pigment granules similar to those found in the mucous membrane of the pharynx.
In the present stage the yolk spherules although still present are much less numerous than in the earlier stages and they soon disappear altogether so that the dark pigment becomes the distinguishing feature of the cord.
The lower proximal portion of the hyomandibular fold can be seen in the figure as a shallow protrusion JLjm.
from the ventre lateral angle of the pharynx compare with figs.
10 and 11.
In the region immediately posterior the proximal portion is practically blended with the wall of the pharynx figs.
15 and 19.
In fig.
19 right side it again becomes distinguishable and soon becomes continuous with the prominent diverticulum JEii.
left side of fig.
19 .
I will now return to the  diverticulum  in order to trace its further course.
From its distal extremity the  diverticulum  extends inward and slightly backward in close contact with the anterior surface of the depressor ossis hyoidei vi.cl.h. fig.
24 Tym.
 and then ascending slightly to pass over a large vessel the mandibular aortic arch m.a.
 it comes into close relation with the external surface of the processus muscularis of the quadrate.
As it progresses inward the cord gradually decreases in diameter so that when it reaches the quadrate it is reduced to about a half or even a third of the diameter of its distal expanded portion.
After reaching the external surface of the quadrate the reduced ' ' diverticulum ' ' turns sharply posteriorly at the inner edge of the depressor ossis hyoidei as a minute cylindrical cord ties.
23 15 19 Eu..
Here it is closely applied to the processus muscularis of the quadrate.
Below and internal to it is the mandibular aortic arch m.
a.
 while bounding it externally is a small accessory slip from the depressor mandibulie fig.
15 vi.d.m'.
 the main body of which is attached to the quadrate anterior and internal to the cord fig.
24 m.cl.m..
The cord extends posteriorly in the same position usually closely applied to the quadrate and showing more or less reduction in size so that in certain parts of its course it is difficult to trace clearly.
Throughout its entire extent however it contains numerous pigment granules the presence of which facilitates considerably the tracing of the cord as does also the scattered yolkbodies apparent for the last time in the present stage.
In fig.
15 the cord can be seen much reduced just under the transversely extended processus muscularis and external to the mandibular aortic arch m.a..
In fig.
19 right side the cord Eu.
still occupies the same relative position.
Just external to it is the ramus hyomandibularis of the facial nerve vii h..
Internal to it the mandibular artery m.a.
intervenes between it and the pharyngeal wall.
At this point the mandibular aortic arch begins to turn inward in order to reach the carotid.
Immediately behind the artery the cord fuses with the distal extremity of the diverticulum extending up from the pharyngeal wall see fig.
19 Eu. left sixle.
Here both the cord and proximal portion of the hyomandibular fold become continuous.
The fold becomes more prominent in the following sections fig.
23 Ea.
and ultimately 16 blends with the wall of the pharvnx dorsal to the inner opening of the first branchialcleft.
To recapitulate briefly the state of the hyomandibular fold at the present stage  we have found the ventral portion of the fold present only as an inconspicuous protrusion of the veutrolateral angle of the pharynx.
Only the dorsalmost portion of the original fold is well developed and from this tlie greatly prolonged diverticulum extends forward as a solid coi'd of cells.
The latter originates posterior to the quadratohyoid articulation.
Throughout the greater part of its length the cord is closely ajiplied to the outer surface of the processus muscularis.
Anteriorly however it bends sharjly outward in front of the depressor ossis hyoidei and terminates blindly as a somewhat bulbous enlargement in the subcutaneous tissue.
I may here describe briefly the condition of the neighboring skeletal structures since in the present stage these have acquired the relations which they retain throughout the entire larval period.
The animal has now passed beyond the procartilage stage and consequently the cartilages can be readily traced.
In most cases they already show a welldefined perichondrium.
The quadrate cartilage is prolonged in an an teroposterior direction almost parallel with the corresponding trabecula cranii.
Its course is thus quite the reverse of that which characterizes its adult condition.
Its distal articular end is prolonged as the jirocessus articularis downward and forward to a point beneath the anterior surface of the eye and at a later period still farther forward.
At its distal extremity it bears the transversely placed mandibular cartilage Meckel's.
The greater part of the quadrate is prolonged upward and outward as a stout plate immediately underlying the orbit  the processus muscularis  to the outer side of which are attached the depressor mandibular and depressor ossis hyoidei.
In the concavity formed in the inner and upper surface are lodged the muscles of mastication fig.
24 k.m..
On the ventral surface near the point of junction between the body of the cartilage and the processus muscularis there is forming at the present stage a shallow concave articular surface for the head of the hyoid cartilage.
The latter is a stout bar of cartilage extending transversely beneath the floor of the pharynx and joined to its fellow of the opposite side by the intervention of a median plate the copula.
In its outer portion the hyoid turns sharply upward to form au ascending process which articulates with the quadrate.
In its anterior portion  i.e. where the processus articularis is given off  the quadrate is joined to the tiabecula of the same side by an ascending bar of cartilage the commissura quadratocranialis anterior Gaupp or palatopterygoid bar.
Posteriorly again the quadrate bends sharply upward and then as a stout bar processus ascendens fig.
19 Pi.A.
extends inward back of the eye and in front of the auditory capsule to join with the trabecula just in front of the basilar plate parachordal.
There is no distinct separation between these connected cartilages the matrix of each being perfectly continuous with that of the others.
It now remains to connect the conditions observed in the present stage with those seen in the preceding.
The chief differences between the former and the latter are briefly these 1 The relatively much greater length of te  diverticulum a condition associated with the removal of the part connecting it with the pharyngeal wall to a point more posterior i. e.  back of the quadratohyoid aiticulation 2 the reduction in size of the middle portion of the  diverticulum and 3 the almost complete obliteration of the ventroanterior portion of the hyomandibular fold.
These ditferences are I believe correlated with a continuation of the same processes treated of under the description of the preceding stage.
These are chiefly the modifications undergone by the neighboring muscles and cartilages.
The general growth of the animal has had little if anything to do in producing the differences between the two stages.
There has been a considerable increase in width of the head  an increase in which however the contained structures have taken part.
The greatea length of the  diverticulum  has been produced by the continued increase in depth of the depression in the distal border of the fold.
In stage III this depression was relatively shallow so that the  diverticulum  was very short and blunt.
In the present stage the  diverticulum  is very long having the form of a long narrow cord somewhat expanded at its distal extremity.
The insinking of the disial border was associated with the growth of the depressor raaudibulse in consequence of the latter' s acquisition of a point of attachment to the quadrate in front of and below the distal border of the hyomandibular fold.
In the present stage this muscle has increased in size and extended its area of attachment to the quadrate.
It has also given off an accessory slip which extends upward external to the cordlike diverticulum to attach to the processus muscularis fig.
15 m.cl.m'..
Moreover immediately behind the posterior edge of the depressor mandibulie the hyoid cartilage is drawn up to form an articulation with the quadrate and following this the enlarged mandibular aortic arch turns inward to join with the carotid fig.
19 7n.a.
just in front of the point where the diverticulum joins the extension from the pharyngeal wall fig.
19 JEu. left side.
Thus changes in three structures have been instrumental in producing the deepening of the depi'ession i.e. 1 the increase in size and area of attachment of the depressor mandibuhe 2 the articulation of the hyoid to the quadrate and 3 the increase in size of the mandibular aortic arch.
The reduction in size of the middle portion of the  diverticular cord compare figures vilth.
fig.
11 of last stage has been associated with two factors 1 the increase in size of the accompanying mandibular aorta and 2 the differentiation and growth of the outer accessory slip of the depressor mandibulas.
By examining figure 15 one will notice the reduced cord tighlly wedged in between the enlarged artery internally and the accessory slip externally.
The decrease of the ventroanterior portion of the hyomandibular fold to form a mere shallow protrusion of the ventrolateral angle of the pharynx fig.
24 Hym.
has in all probability been produced by the deepening of the depression and its final blending with the pharyngeal wall.
Naturally as the depression deepeued its deepest part would ultimately blend with the pharyngeal wall so as to be no longer distinguishable fig.
15.
As the ventroanterior portion of the fold formed the lower border of the depression it would naturally be drawn in with the deepening of the depression until it formed the shallow protrusion mentioned fig.
24 Hym. 
.
This decrease is also accelerated by the increase in size and density of the skeletal and muscular parts.
Stage V.  Young tadpole of about 9 mm.
Opercular cavity communicating with the exterior by a single opening on the left side.
No external gills.
The condition of the hyomandibular fold is essentially similar to that in the precediug stage.
The tissues of the animal are more compact and definitely limited than iu the last stage.
The external distal extremity of the  diverticulum or as I may now term it the Eustachian cord since the structure under consideration ultimately gives rise to the greater part of the tube of that name has the same general appearance as before.
It however does not extend so far out from the processus muscularis as before a condition probably produced by the increase in size of the process.
A slight reduction has also taken part in this portion of the cord  diverticulum .
More marked however has been the change in the middle portion of the cord.
After extending inward to the processus muscularis the cord rapidly degenerates becoming greatly flattened and much reduced in size so that for a part of its course it is very difficult to recognize the presence of scattered nuclei and numerous pigment granules alone serving to mark its existence.
This great reduction has been associated with a continuation of the processes described in the last stage i.e. the growth of the hyoidean muscles depressor maudibuloe and depressor ossis hyoidei the articulation of the hyoid with the quadrate and the inci'ease in size of the mandibular artery PI VII fig 8 and PI IX fig 25 En..
The cord retains the degenerate condition just described until it reaches a point just back of the region where the nmudibular aorta turns inward to join the carotid.
A good idea of the condition of the cord can be obtained from coronal sections fig.
8.
In such it appears as a faint narrow cord .
 coursing in an anteroposterior direction in contact with the outer surface of the processus muscularis.
This cord contains no lumen and shows no indication of a tubal character.
It contains throughout its course scattered nuclei arranged end to end and it is largely colored by numerous black pigmentgranules.
The yolkspherules have now disappeared entirely.
There is very little substance to the cord and in places where nuclei and pigment are lacking it becomes very ditScult to trace.
Immediately posterior to the inflexed mandibular aorta the Eustachian cord is joined to the pharyngeal wall by a narrow strand of somewhat elongated cells.
These cells are not easily distinguishable from the cells of the surrounding connective tissue but they form a iather dense patch in the latter stretched between the pharyngeal wall and 'the tubal Anlage.
Immediately beyond this region this conuecting'portiun broadens out considerably to form a rather shallow bulging of cells from the roof of a lateral recess fig.
25 l.r.
or pouch of the pharynx from the outer extremity of which the thymus gland is given off.
This  lateral recess  is really formed by an extension outwaxd of the branchial portion of the pharynx over the internal branchial openings sothat the latter are now situated on the floor of the cavity.
In the preceding stage this  lateral recess was just beginning to form as a slight bulging beneath the proximal portion of the tubal Anlage.
With the extension externally of the  lateral recess the proximal portion of the Eustachian cord comes to appear as an inconspicuous protuberance over the inner part of the roof of the  recess fig.
25 immediately internal to vii h.
Stage VI.
 Tadpole of 18 mm.
Posterior limbs appearing as minute buds below the root of the tail PI.
IX fig.
26.
In this stage the Eustachian cord has about reached the height of its degeneration.
The cord still maintains the same general relations to the surrounding parts as before.
Its distal expanded extremity remains distinct and from thence the cord can readily be traced to its characteristic position next to the outer surface of the processus muscularis.
Here however it soon becomes very small and then can be traced only with the greatest difficulty.
The cord lies immediately above the mandibular aorta and by following the latter it may be traced as a minute more or less flattened pigmented patch which in certain parts contains one or two nuclei not readily distinguishable from the nuclei of the surrounding fibrous tissue fig.
26 En..
Immediately posterior to the quadratohyoid articulation the cord again enlarges slightly and can be traced thence for a considerable distance.
Then in the region where the ramus hyomaudibularis begins to come into close relations with its external surface all distinct traces of the cord are lost.
Nothing more of the cord is to be made out until we come to the region where the mandibular artery turns inward where for a short space the cord is again revealed and then terminates without forming any clear connection with the pharyngeal wall.
This most posterior fragment of the cord is situated below the quadrate dorsal to the upper anterior end of the  lateral recess  of the pharynx.
There is no distinct proliferation from the dorsointernal wall of this portion to indicate the proximal connecting part of the tubal cord.
The proliferation has very likely opened out with the formation of the  lateral recess and has been merged into the dorsal wall of the latter.
It thus appears that in the present stage the Eustachian cord for the greater part of its length has undergone remarkable fragmentation having broken up into a number of sections of variable length.
Each of these fragments however retains exactly the same relations to the surrounding structures that the corresponding part of the cord showed in the preceding stage.
It is quite possible that the various fragments may still be connected by the transparent cellwalls of the cord and in that case the apparent fragmentation is simply due to the restriction of the more vital stainable portions to areas less subject to the action of unfavorable forces.
I am somewhat inclined to consider this the actual condition in the present stage since in a longitudinal series I have been enabled to follow out with great care a pale almost transparent cord connecting some of the fragments.
Posteriorly this cord approaches very closely the wall of the pharynx.
I have not been able to make out any distinct connection between the two but their proximity would incline me to believe such a union to exist.
Still I have not been able to satisfy myself on this point.
I have not been able to determine to my satisfaction the factors which have been concerned in the degeneration of the Eustachian cord.
One of them is probably to be found in the pressure exerted by the surrounding structures particularly by the two muscles already mentioned.
Owing probably to its unfavorable position the tubal cord appears to have little if any power of independent growth.
It therefore may have been acted on by the growth anteriorly of the head whereby a pull has been exerted on it causing its wall to extend and its contents to be restricted to more or less limited regions of the cord.
Stage VII.
 Tadpole of 21 mm.
Hind limbs well developed.
This stage very closely resembles the preceding.
Owing to an accident the more anterior sections of the Eustachian cord in the specimen examined are lacking but I have no doubt but that this portion of the cord in the present stage corresponds in all essential respects with that in the preceding since in the succeeding stage the anterior portion is very similar to that in stage VI.
80 far as the reraaiuing parts are concerned they present the same fragmentary character as in the preceding stage being in certain locations almost unrecognizable.
I noticed in the present series and likewise in several later ones that there is no necessary correspondence either in the number length or distribution of the fragments of the two sides.
In the case of the specimen of the present stage examined the sections were almost exactly transverse so that the same parts were cut on both sides.
Yet the tubal cord may be present for a considerable distance on one side and apparently altogether absent on the other.
This irregularity is a marked feature during the entire metamorphic period.
I find that there is also marked individual variation in this respect.
This variability would seem to indicate that the character of the fragmentation is not due to some inherited tendency but is produced by mechanical forces exerted by the surrounding structures.
Posteriorly the Eustachian cokI terminates suddenly in the usual position dorsal to the anterior extremity of the  lateral recess  of the branchial portion of the pharynx.
In the same region a prominent proliferation arises from the dorsal wall of the  recess and extends upward to the same relative position as that occupied by the cord in the more anterior sections.
This structure may represent the same mass of cells which originally established the connection between the tubal cord and the wall of the pharynx but of this interpretation I am uncertain since I was unable to discover any sign of such proliferation in the preceding stage or in a number of later stages.
Possibly its occurrence or absence is a matter of individual variation.
There has been but little change in the skeleton since the last period.
Posteriorly however the quadrate has developed a posteriorly projecting processus oticus which comes in contact with the ventral surface of the auditory capsule.
The processus oticus arises at the angle formed by the body of the quadrate with the processus ascendens.
The stapes appears for the first time as an oval chondrification within the membrane closing the fenestra ovalis.
There are no distinct traces of a columella auris.
Stage VIII.
 Tadpole of 21 mm.
Preceding the appearance of the forelimbs.
At this time we have the earliest distinctppearance of the annular cartilage PI.
IX lig.
28 An..
About opposite the point where the pteiygopalatiue bar processus quadratecranial is anterior joins the quadrate a very coaspicuous proliferation from the perichondrium of the latter occurs.
This proliferation forms a dense strand of cells which reach outward in the subcutaneous tissue and aggregate themselves in a somewhat concentric fashion about the distal expanded termiuatiou of the Eustachian cord Tym..
The dense patch there formed is the Anlage of the future annular cartilage.
From this region the Eustachian cord pursues the same course that characterized the preceding stages.
The cord is however much more distinct than in any of the latter and its tubular character is plainly indicated by its nuclei which are now grouped about the periphery of the cord thus giving the latter the appearance of a duct with an obliterated lumen PI.
XI fig.
29 En..
In certain parts of the cord slight indications of a central lumen can be made out but as a rule any cavities that do appear are neither very extensive nor pronounced.
The cord however as in the preceding stages becomes smaller as it extends posteriorly and in the region of the quadratohyoid articulation disappears.
It soon reappears however.
Posterior to the hyoid articulation the cord again becomes much reduced but does not lose its continuity with the most posterior portion.
In the most posterior part of its course the cord again enlarges becomes clearly tubular and exhibits a more or less welldefined lumen.
In this portion the cord occupies its characteristic position ventral to the quadrate cartilage and internal to the ramus hyomandibularis which in the region of the quadratohyoid articulation ascends from the ventral portion of the hyoid arch to come into close relation with the outer wall of the cord.
From the dorsal wall of the  lateral recess  of the pharynx a conspicuous strand of cells arises the dorsal end of Avhich closely approaches the Eustachian cord but before actual contact takes place the cord rather suddenly terminates.
I am not certain of the significance of this strand.
It may be the part which originally connected the cord with the pharynx but of this I am uncertain since I found no evidence of it in stage VI.
Stage IX.
 Tadpole of 18 mm.
Both fore and hind limbs present.
This stage marks the commencement of the metamorphosis.
Since the changes which the Eustachian cord or tube undergoes during this period are obviously correlated with modifications takiDg place simultaneously iu the skeletal structures it is necessary in order to follow the former to obtain a right conception of the latter.
Hence in the present stage I will first treat of the essential skeletal parts.
In the first place the axis of the quadrate extends in a more dorsoventral direction than formerly so that noAv the mandibular articulation lies below the anterior edge of the eye instead of being entirely in front of it as before.
This position implies that the lower part of the quadrate has moved or rotated backward through a slight angle.
The processus quadratocrauialis anterior pterygopalatine is now considerably elongated in an anteroposterior direction a change obviously associated with the backward rotation of the quadrate.
The processus muscularis orbital begins to show signs of degeneration especially along its dorsoexternal edge.
The hyoid still articulates to the ventral surface of the quadrate.
Posteriorly the processus ascendens has degenerated and consequently the quadrate has lost its connection with the wall of the braincase but instead it now joins by means of its processus oticus the wall of the auditory capsule anterior to the fenestra ovalis.
In the membrane closing the latter the stapes now appears as a large oval mass of fully differentiated cartilage.
The columella auris is a delicate rod of primitive cartilage closely applied to the wall of the capsule.
Anteriorly it terminates without forming any connection whatever with either the quadrate or any portion of the Eustachian tube and posteriorly it unites with the stapes.
The columella is most distinct and its tissue most compact in its posterior portion so that it cannot be regarded as a derivative of the quadrate.
As a consequence of the posterior rotation of the distal portion of the quadrate the distal extremity of the Eustachian cord is now situated somewhat posterior to its former position but its relation to the immediately surrounding structures is the same as before since these likewise have been affected by the quadrate's change of axis.
The annular cartilage now a dense cellular mass is situated under the anterior margin of the eye and above the mandibular articulation.
To its ventral sui face the more anterior fibres of the depressor ossis hyoidei have acquired attachment.
Imbedded in the cartilage is the distal end of the Eustachian cord the future tympanic cavity.
The general appearance of the cord is similar to that in the preceding stage.
The cord still shows fragmentation allliougli the length and distribution of the fragments differ on the two sides.
No connection between the cord and the pharynx can be determined with certainty although the proliferation attached to the dorsal wall of the lateral recess is still present.
Stage X.
 Tailed toad of 15.5 mm.
Fore and hind limbs well developed.
This stage very closely resembles the preceding the most marked differences being the greater auteroposterior elongation of the processus quadratocranialis anterior and the associated greater posterior rotation of the quadrate.
The Eustachian cord also is very distinct particularly in its anterior and posterior portions.
In the region just back of the quadratohyoid articulation it is greatly reduced and traceable only with difficulty.
In several places the cord shows a distinct lumen.
There are no distinct signs of a proliferation attached to the pharyngeal wall extending toward the cord.
Stage XI.
 Tailed toad 6.8 mm. tail 1.5 mm.
Close of the metamorphosis.
The processus quadratocranialis anterior has now increased considerably in length so that it extends in a direct antero posterior direction as in the adult toad.
The axis of the quadrate has attained an almost vertical direction but it still extends somewhat forward its distal articular end being located under the middle or posterior part of the eye.
The hyoid still maintains its union with the quadrate.
More posteriorly in the region of the auditory capsule the columella auris can be traced farther forward.
At its anterior distal extremity it is prolonged forward as a dense strand of cells which forms a connection with the posterior surface of the quadrate.
Only the more posterior portion of the columellar rod is formed of true cartilage the anterior portion being as yet only a dense undifferentiated mass of cells.
The most conspicuous changes which the tympanoEustachian tube has undergone since the preceding period have been associated with the change of axis of the suspensory cartilages.
As a result of this the tympanic portion of the tube together with the annular cartilage has moved backward to a region below the posterior portion of the eye.
The tube as a whole exhibits the same fragmentary character as hitherto and I have remarked here.
as in a number of other stages a ciitlerence in the coudiliou of the tubes of the two sides.
Posteriorly the tube terminates without forming any connection with the phax'ynx.
The proliferation from the pharynx is not very distinct.
It probably tends to disappear in connection with the degeneration of the branchial apparatus.
Stage XII.
 Tailed toad 7 mm.
Close of metamorphosis.
The quadrate cartilage now stands almost vertical its distal articular extremity lying under the posterior border of the eye.
The hyoid bar has separated completely from the quadrate and its dorsal extremity is now joined by the intervention of a dense strand of cells to the base of the auditory capsule.
The distal part of the tympanoEustachian tube now lies immediately posterior and ventral to the eye.
Since the distal portion of the quadrate rotates backward more rapidly than the remaining part it results that the posterior hitherto ventral surface of the cartilage forms a shallow concavity.
From this behavior it follows that the distal expanded portion of the tube  i.e. tympanic portion comes to lie farther posterior in relation to the rest of the cord so that the latter no longer presents an almost direct anteroposterior course but instead now hes in an almost transverse plane except for a slight antei'ior inclination.
The tympanic region of the tube is thus brought into relation with the auditory capsule.
In the present period it has not quite reached the region of the latter but is not far removed being located just back of the eye.
Another feature shown by the present stage is the union of the various fragments of which it was hitherto composed.
This union is also probably to be connected with the quadrate's change of axis since this would result in carrying the more anterior fragments backward and thus bringing thera into closer relation with the posterior parts.
At present the tube can be traced without a break throughout its entire course.
This fact speaks strongly for the view that these parts have all along been united by an attenuated cord.
The fragments are simply the contents of this cord which have been restricted to certain areas.
As a result of the backward rotation of the quadrate the stretching to which the cord had hitherto been subjected is relieved and accordingly the various fragments of the substance flow together thus producing the union described.
Proxiraally however ' the tube forms no connectiou vitll the pharyngeal wall Jjut immediately internal to its proximal termination the pharynx sends out a narrow cleft between the hyoid and the base of the auditory capsule.
Posteriorly the tube ceases immediately in front of the dense strand connecting the hyoid cornua with the auditory capsule so that at this stage the tube occupies its definitive position between the quadrate and hyoid cartilages.
As a result of the changes that have taken place in the hyoid its nerve the ramus hyomandibularis now lies ventral and posterior to the tube  a position which characterizes it in the adult condition.
lu the branchial region the entire branchial apparatus including the  lateral recess of the pharynx has become largely obliterated.
Stage XIII.
 Young toad G mm.
Metamorphosis complete.
This period marks the close of the metamorphosis.
The inferior articular portion of the quadrate extends more posterior so that the quadrate on its posterior surface shows a marked concavity.
The general course of the quadrate is about as follows Dorsally from its union with the base of the auditory capsule it extends forward and downward for some little distance it then describes a wide curve downward and backward for the remainder of its length so that its distal end bearing the mandibular cartilage now comes to lie under or even slightly behind its dorsal proximal extremity.
Tiie hyoid arch is now fused completely with the auditory capsule the intervening cellular strand having become cartilaginous.
The annular cartilage is now located posterior to the eye and ventral to the anterior portion of the auditory capsule.
It closely underlies the skin and is external to the outer surface of the quadrate.
The Eustachian tube itself differs but little from its condition in the preceding stage except that its lumen where present is more distinct and extensive.
A short distance above the tube the distal extremity of the columella auris may be observed as a dense cellular mass which posteriorly grades into true cartilage.
Stcuje XF.
 Young toad about 9 mm figs.
30 31.
In this stage the tympanoEustachian passage has the same general position and relations that distinguish it in the fully mature animal.
Relatively it is not so large as in the latter nor is its lumen complete throughout but in all other respects it is essentially like the advilt structuie. Figs 30 and 31 illustrate the condition of the tube at this time.
In fig.
30 we have a tiansverse section through one side of the head immediately back of the eye.
To the outer side is shown the quadrate cartilage which in the present stage stands almost vertical and hence is shown in the figure cut throughout the greater part of its length.
External to the upper portion of the cartilage is the tympanic portion of the Eustachian tube showing a slight lumen Tijm..
I have another specimen of approximately the same age in wdiich the lumen is much larger forming a considerable cavity.
Underlying this portion is the tympanic or annular cartilage which in its ventral portion at least is completely chondrified An..
The fully formed cartilage does not however form a complete ring.
Internally the tube approaches the outer surface of the quadrate as was the case in the earlier stages.
Applied to the dorsoexternal wall of the tympanic cavity is the distal extremity of the columella auris at present a very compact cellular mass not yet differentiated into true cartilage CI..
The apparent inclusion of the columella within the tympanic cavity is produced by the subsequent growth of the latter around this portion of the cartilage.
Attached to the ventral surface of the annular cartilage are fibres of the depressor ossis 'hyoidei m.d.h..
The attachment of the muscle to the cartilage was acquired soon after the earliest Anlage of the latter had appeared.
At its ventral end the muscle has lost its attachment to the hyoid cartilage and has acquired a new insertion into the angle of the mandible so that like the depressor mandibulse it serves to depress the latter compare also fig.
31.
The bulk of the muscle lies posterior to the Eustachian tube.
Internal to the muscle and between it and the quadrate are two bloodvessels which correspond to the original mandibular aorta m.a..
This vessel as we have seen was an important one during the tadpole period but during the metamorphosis it underwent some profound changes.
Its middle portion largely degenerated so that the vessel became divided into a proximal and a distal half.
The vessel undergoes other changes but these I have not been able to follow satisfactorily with the material at hand.
Fig.
31 shows a section thiough the tympanoEustachian tube near its posterior boundary.
The quadrate q. 
is here seen in two separate portions a dorsal and a ventral.
This condition can be readily understood by referring to the description of tlie cartilage as given in stage XIII.
It suffices to mention that the section passes back of the point where the quadrate curves backward on itself so that the dorsal is the jroximal the ventral the distal portion of the cartilage.
The distal portion bears the mandible.
Underlying the proximal portion is the Eustachian tube Eu.
 here shown in three detached segments.
Other sections however show these segments continuous so that the tube is now complete.
jMoreover the proximal innermost segment is continuous with the pharynx and in reality represents a diverticulum cUv.
from the latter.
In the other specimen that I have of this stage this portion is continuous with the pharynx but its distal extremity ends blindly without forming a connection with the Eustachian tube.
In the toad of stage XIII this diverticulum of the pharynx was also present and connecting it with the widely separated tubal Anlage was a dense strand of connective tissue cells whose long diameters were extended in a direction coinciding with a line drawn between the separated parts.
By means of this diverticulum the tympanoEustachian tube is now united to the pharynx.
The tube presents throughout an irregular lumen bounded by a welldefined columnar epithelium.
That portion of the tube which is most externally situated is the posterior pari of the tympanic cavity Tym..
Attached to the dorsal wall of the latter is the columella auris C.
.
The ramus hyomandibularis of the facial nerve is not shown in this section since owing to the posterior flexure of the quadrate and the separation of the hyoid from the latter the nerve now lies entirely posterior to the tube.
SUMIMAPvY.
The results recorded in the preceding pages may be briefly summarized as follows  1.
The tympanoEustachian passage is in the main derived from the dorsalmost portion of the hyomaudibular fold cleft.
2.
In the earliest stages described the hyomaudibular fold is present as a solid platelike fold extending outward and forward beneath the eye region and terminating laterally in a free edge situated a short distance below the ectoderm.
Its attachment to the ectoderm is lost at about this stajre.
3.
At first the outer or distal edge of the hyomandibular fold is smooth and uubrokeii throughout its entire extent.
Later this edge becomes interrupted in its middle portion by the formation of a progressively deepening depression which ultimately reaches the pharyngeal wall and divides the hyomandibular fold into two parts  a dorsal cordlike portion the future tyrapanoEustachian passage and a ventral portion forming a shallow sacculation to the ventrolateral portion uf the pharyngeal cavity.
4.
The ventral portion of the hyomandibular fold ceases to be recognizable after the late tadjole stages.
It is this portion which Villy considers as the last remnant of the hyomandibular fold.
5.
The earliest evidence of the degeneration of the hyomandibular fold is afforded ly the recession of its outer edge from the neighborhood of the external ectoderiu.
Only the dorsalmost portion of the fold continues in intimate proximity to the skin.
The Avithdrawal of the remainder is associated with 1 the reduction in size of the pharynx in consequence of the segregation of the surrounding mesenchyme to form the Anlagen of muscles and cartilages and 2 the development of the muscles of the hyoid arch  the depressor mandibuke and ossis hyoidei.
Of these muscles the depressor maudibulre extends forward between the skin and the outer border of the hyomandibular fold and acquires attachment to the developing quadrate cartilage in front of the fold.
It thus interposes an effective barrier to further outward extension of the fold.
Only the dorsalmost portion of the fold remains unimpeded by the muscle and this accordingly retains its proximity to the ectoderm and in the subsequent growth of the head is cari'ied outward as a narrow cordlike strand expanded at its outer extremity into a clubshaped swelling.
This portion I have designated the diverticulum.
It is th. Anlage of the tympano Eustachian passage.
6.
The outer hyoidean muscle the depressor ossis hyoidei also acquires attachment to the quadrate Anlage at a point above and posterior to the hyomandibular cleft.
The diverticulum or Anlage of the tympauoEustachian passage thus comes to he between the two hyoidean muscles.
7.
The growth anteriorly of the hyoidean muscles produces a marked anteroposterior extension of the hyomandibular fold and of its derivative the tyrapanoEustachian Anlage.
This anteroposterior direction taken by the tubal Anhuje is cliaracteristic of it during the entire larval period 8.
The further degeneration of the hyomaudibular fold is correlated with the subsequent increase in size of the muscles already mentioned the union of the hyoid cartilage with the quadrate and the enlargement of the mandibular aortic arch.
9.
After the degeneration of the hyomaudibular fold the Anlage of the tympauoEustachian passage persists as a minute solid cord extending along the outer surface of the piocessus muscularis of the quadrate.
Posteriorly it is attached to the wall of the pharynx at a point posterior to the quadratohyoid articulation.
Anteriorly and distally it expands to form the clubshaped Anlage of the tympanic cavity.
10.
During the active tadpole period the tympanoEustachian Anlage undergoes marked degeneration.
This degeneration is confined to the middle and posterior parts of the Anlage the distal expanded portion retaining its original relative size throughout the entire larval period.
The degeneration is in all probability connected with the growth of the two muscles  depressor mandibule and ossis hyoidei  between which it lies.
Owing to the lack of space it is unable to keep pace with the surrounding structures in the subsequent growth of the animal.
11.
In the early tadpole period the tympanoEustachian Anlage is continuous posterioily with the wall of the pharynx.
Later the connection between the two apparently disappears though the time of its disappearance seems to vary in different individuals.
An indistinct strand may continue to unite the two parts but this I have been unable to demonstrate.
12.
The degeneration of the tympanoEustachian Anlage is carried to an extreme in the later tadpole stages.
Xi this time it is apparently broken up into a number of fragments of varying length.
This fragmentation is probably more appareuC than real being produced by the restriction of the more vital staiuable substance of the tubal Anlage to areas less subject to the pressure of the neighboring structures.
The irregular distribution of tha fragments both in different individuals and on different sides of the same individual favors the view that a compressed transparent cord still connects the apparently separate parts.
In one specimen 17 tadpole of about 18 mm.
I have been enabled to trace out such a connecting cord.
13.
Regeneration of the tyrapanoEustachian Anlage begins at a period immediately precedina the period when the forelimbs break out of the opercular cavity.
14.
The later metamorphosis of the tubal Anlarje is connected with the modifications of the neighboring skeletal structures particularly Avith the posterior rotation of the quadrate.
By this means the tubal cord comes into relation Avith the auditory region of the skull and the various fragments are brought closer together so that they can readily unite.
15.
The acquisition of a lumen by the tubal Anlage takes place gradually beginning at the close of the metamorjhosis.
Details apparently vary in diflerent individuals.
16.
Completion of the tympanoEustachian passage is efiected by an outgrowth from the pharynx which unites with the tubal A7ilage.
17.
The final position of the tympanoEustachian tube between the mandibular and hyoid bars is produced by the separation of the latter from the juadrate and its attachment to the auditory capsule posterior to the tube.
18.
The annular cartilage arises at a stage immediately preceding the protrusion of the forelimbs.
Its Aiilage forms a dense cellular strand derived from the perichondrium of the quadrate and surrounding the tympanic portion of the tubnl Anlage.
It does not begin to form fully dififerentiated cartilage until after the close of the metamorphosis.
19.
The stapes arises within the membrane closing the fenestra ovalis.
It has no connection with any of the visceral arches.
20.
The columella auris is first met with in the early stages of the metamorphosis as a compact cellular strand extending forward from the stapes and terminating imperceptibly in the connective tissue.
It continues to grow forward and acquires connection with the quadrate.
Continued growth brings it in contact with the tympanic cavity.
Choudrificatiou begins in the posterior portion of the rod.
1901.
259 EXPLANATION OF PLATES YI VII VIII IX.
The drawings were outlined by aid of the camera lucida and Avith the exception of figures 26 and 29 were all drawn to the same scale.
With the exception of the two mentioned they are also slightly diagramatic  those on plates VIYIII reduced onethird  on plate IX onehalf.
Reference Letters.
An.
 Annular cartilage.
Aud.
 Auditory capsule.
Car.
 Carotid artery.
C7i.
 Chorda.
CI.
 Columella auris.
dio.
 Diverticulum from pharynx.
E.Eje.
Eu.
 Eustachian cord or tube.
Ext.
 External gill.
.
 Hyoid cartilage.
h.a.
 Hyoidean aortic arch.
Ji.rii.
 Hyoidean muscle mass.
Hym.
 Hyomandibular fold.
inf.
 Infundibulum.
k.m.
 Muscles of mastication.
l.r.
 Lateral recess of pharynx.
M.  Meckel's cartilage.
m.a.
 Mandibular aortic arch.
m.a'.
 Its efferent portion.
m.a'.
 Its afferent portion.
m.d.h.
 Depressor hyoidei.
m.d.m.
 Depressor mandibulse.
m.d.rii' .
 Its accessory slip.
01.
 Olfactory depression.
Pr.A.
 Processus ascendens.
Pr.q.c.a.
 Commissura quadratocranialis anterior.
Pr.M.
 Processus muscularis.
Q.
 Quadrate.
St.  Stomatodeal plate.
T't. Thyroid.
Tr.
 Trabecula cranii.
Tym.
 Tympanic distal portion of Eustaohian cord.
X.
 Small bloodvessel connecting mandibular and hyoid aortic arches.
T.  Small bloodvessel external to ramus hyomandibularis.
2 S 4 5 v.f.
 Second third fourth and fifth visceralclefts.
V.  Trigeminal ganglion.
V.
 Ophthalmic ganglion.
V.
 Maxillary ganglion.
V.m.
 Maxillo mandibular nerve.
VII.
 Facial ganglion.
vii h.  Ramus hyomaudibularis.
'eii pi.
 Ramus palatinus.
Plate VI Fig.
1. Coronal section through the pharynx and visceralclefts of an embryo of stage I.
Fig.
2.
 Coronal section through the same region of a slightly older embryo stage II.
Fig.
3.
 Coronal section of the same embryo at a somewhat higher ijlane.
Fig.
4.
 Coronal section through the dorsalmost portion of the pharynx of the same embryo.
Fig.
5.
 Transverse section through the head of an embryo of approximately the same stage as the last.
The section on the right side passes through the extreme anterior portion of the hyomandibular fold Hym..
The plane of section is considerably farther posterior on the left side.
Fig.
6.
 Transverse section of the head of the same embryo.
On the right side the hyomandibular fold is cut throughout the greater part of its length Hym..
The dorsalmost portion of its outer distal border approaches most closely the skin.
On the left the facial ganglion gives off the ramus hyomandibularis just external to the outer end of the fold vii h..
Plate VII Fig.
7.
 Transverse section of the head of the same embryo slightly posterior to the last.
Fig.
8.
 Coronal section of head of tadpole of stage V. One side alone shown.
Fig.
10.
 Transverse section of the head of a young tadpole of stage III.
The section is through the anterior end of the pharynx.
The plane of section is more posterior on the right side than on the left.
Fig.
11.
 Fourth section posterior to that of Cgiire 10.
Eu.
designates the 'diverticulum while at Ihjm.
is the auteroinferior ijortion of the hyoinandibular fold.
Fig.
12.
 Third section posterior to the last.
The diverticulum Eu.
i now continuous with the anteroiuferior portion Jlim.
of the hyomandibular fold.
Between the two is the depression lodging tlie muscles m.d.m.
and m.dJt..
The snall vessel above Eu.
is the mandibular aortic arch.
Fig.
13.
 Sixth section posterior to the last.
The mandibular aortic arch is dorsal o llym.
Plate VIII Fig.
14.
 Third section posterior to last.
The mandibular aortic arch on the right side is just internal to vii pi.
Fig.
15.
 Transverse section of head of tadpole of stage IV in the region immediately posterior to that shown in figure 24.
Fig.
16.
 Coronal section of the head of a young tadpole of stage II.
On the right side the section passes a slight distance above the floor of the pharynx Avhiie on the left it is consideraldy higher.
The small vessel in front oi Ilym.
is the mandibular aortic arch.
Fig.
17.
 Fourth section dorsal to the last.
On the right side the little protrusion of the pharyngeal wall just internal to Tym.
is the anteroinferior portion of the hyomandibular fold jiist below the point where it becomes continuous with lym.
The space between the two is the depression.
Fig.
18.
 Coronal section of the head of the same animal a slight distance below the roof of the mouth.
Fig.
19.
 Transverse section of the head of a tadpole of sttge IV in the region of the processus ascendens.
Plate IX Fig.
23.
 Transverse section of the head of a tadpole of stage IV passing through a region slightly anterior to the auditory sac.
Fig.
24.
 Transverse section of the head of a tadpole of stage IV showing the anterior expanded portion Tym.
of the Eustachian cord.
Hym.
denotes the proximal anterior portion of the hyomandibular cleft.
I'ig.
25.
 Transverse section of the head of a tadpole of stage V. On the left the section is immediately posterior to the eye.
The minute upgrowth from the dorsal wall of l.r.
just internal to vii h. is the Eustachian proliferation.
Fig.
26.
 Transverse section of a portion of the right side of the head of an old tadpole of 18 mm.
stage VI.
This section is considerably more magnified than the others and is intended to show the extremely rudimentary character of the Eustachian cord at this stage.
Fig.
28.
 Transverse section of the right side of the head of a tadpole at the beginning of the metamorphosis stage VIII showing the formation of the annular cartilage.
Fig.
29.
 Transverse section of a portion of the right side of the head of the same animal.
The section was drawn with the same degree of magnification as figure 26 and is intended to show the Eustachian cord when it begins to regenerate.
Fig.
30.
 Transverse section through one side of the head of a young toad stage XV.
The section passes through the region immediately in front of the carcapsule.
Fig.
31.
 Transverse section through one side of the head of the same animal.
The section passes through the anterior portion of the earcapsule.
FUKTHER STUDIES ON THE CHROMOSOMES OF THE HEMIPTERA HETEROPTERA.
BY THOMAS II.
MONTGOMERY JR. PH.D.
The present account deals with the relatioas of the chromosomes in the spermatogenesis of certain Hemiptbva and is practically a continuation of a previous paper of mine. In the present paper will be found a description of the chromosomal relations as far as they could be determined in certain species not heretofore examined.
The material was collected last summer at Woods Holl Mass.
 and was kindly identified for me by Dr. Philip E Uhler of Baltimore.
The testes of some of the species Tingis clavata Corixa verticalis Cyvius luridus Lygus jnatensis' were fixed simply in Couklin's picroacetic mixture and this fixation not allowing successful staining with Hermann's safiraninegentian violet method the relations of the nucleoli and of the chromatin nucleoli could not be determined.
But in the remaining species Nabis annulatus Coriziis alternatus and Harviostes reflexulus the testes were fixed in Hermann's platinic chlorideosmicacetic mixture Avhich allowed the saffraniueviolet stain so that for these species the distinction of nucleoli and chromatin nucleoli could be made.
As in my preceding paper I. c.  on this subject the term  chromatin nucleolus  is applied to that peculiar nuclear element which is a chromosome peculiarly modified in preserving its form and dense structure which chromosomes as a rule show only in the height of mitosis throughout every stage of the spermatogenetic cycle.
With the saffranineviolet method the chromosomes proper stain red only in mitosis and violet in other stages but the chromatin nucleolus maintains the red stain in all stages.
1.
Tingis clavata Stal.
Three testes were studied none of them showing spermatogonic monaster stages. '
A Study of the Chromosomes of the Germ Cells of Metazoa to be published in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society.
Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis PI.
X fig.
1 show seven chromatin elements of relatively equal volume and lateral views of the chromosomes in this stage show that they are all dumbbellshaped and hence probably bivaJent fig.
2.
This mitosis results in a transverse reduction division of all these elements.
Very frequeutly one of them is seen to be characterized in having its two components of very unequal volume.
Since these preparations were stained merely by the ironhtemotoxylin method the presence of chromatin nucleoli could not be positively determined owing to the lack of difitrential staining.
But in the prophases of the first maturation mitosis can be seen a large true nucleolus and two smaller rounded bodies generally of different volumes which are soiuetimes in mutual apposition and sometimes not.
If the latter are chromatin nucleoli they are much smaller than any of the seven bivalent chromatin elements of the maturation division so that the latter are possibly all unmodified chromosomes.
This species of the Tingitidce in having such a small number of chromosomes may be regarded rather as a specialized than a jrimitive form.
2.
Corixa verticalis Fieber.
The chromosomes could not be counted in the monaster stages of the spermatogonia.
Two testes were examined.
Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis PI.
X fig.
3 in which two of the chromosomes are seen laterally show twelve chromatin elements of which one regularly is placed in the centre of a circle composed of the remaining eleven.
Lateral views fig.
4 in which four of the large and two of the small elements are shown show that all these elements are dumbbellshaped and hence probably bivalent.
Three are much smaller than the remaiiiing nine and the very smallest is the one that occupies the centre of the chromosomal plate.
All these elements divide by a transverse reduction division and in the daughter cells second spermatocytes the chromosomes are arranged all close together in the equatorial plane  it is the case in a number of species of the Hemiptera that the chromosomes show different plan
of arrangement in the two maturation mitoses.
In the postsynapsis stage there is found in the nucleus a peripheral compact densely staiuiag body of dumbbell form Pi.
X fig.
5 the chromatin reticulum not shown in this figure.
This possibly represents a true nucleolus and a chromatin nucleolus in apposition but this point could not be determined.
Similarly I could not ascertain whether the three small chromatin elements of the maturation mitoses are chromatin nucleoli.
3.
Cymus luridus Stal.
There were no spermatogouic mitoses in the two testes examined of this Lygfeid.
Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis show fifteen chromatin elements of very varying volumes fig.
6 though one N. 2 f is always much smaller than the others and by analogy with many other Hemiptera probably represents a chromatin nucleolus.
Lateral views of the same stage show that all these elements are dumbbellshaped and so probably bivalent fig.
7 showing the smallest and four of the larger elements.
All these elements become transversely divided.
In the growth period of the spermatocytes preceding the maturation divisions the micleus contains a large true nucleolus very irregular in form and peripheral in position.
There are also found as many as four smaller rounded bodies two of which are frequently mutually apposed if these be chromatin nucleoli there would be potentially two bivalent chromatin nucleoli in the resting spermatocyte four univalent ones though apparently only a single bivalent one in the maturation mitosis.
This species has a larger number of chromatin elements in the first maturation mitosis than does the closely similar G. angustatus which I have shown to possess only thirteen.
4.
Lygus pratensis Linn.
The individuals of this species of Capsid were labeled by Dr. XJhler  Lygus 2ratensis ya.v.
' whether Dr. Uhler regarded them as simply showing slight differences in color or as a good geographical variety I cannot say.
In the two testes studied there were no spermatogouic monasters.
In the monaster stage of the first maturation division are found eighteen chromatin elements PI.
X figs.
8 9 namely sixteen larger and two JS 2 much smaller while in the monaster of the second maturation mitosis fig.
10 are present seventeen elements sixteen larger and one smaller N. 2.
The sixteen larger elements in the first mitosis are all bivalent and probably are all true chromosomes they all divide transversely.
The two small elements those marked JV.
3 in the figures of this mitosis do not divide but one of them goes nndivided into the me daughter cell second spermatocyte the other one into the other  this explaining why in the first spermatocytes there are eighteen elements in the second only seventeen.
On account of these small elements not dividing each of them must be considered univalent  for 60 far as my observations on the Hemiptera have gone all bivalent elements divide transversely in the first maturation mitosis.
The species of Capsidce thus far examined compare the preceding paper l. c.  show a remarkable agreement in the number of their chromosomes.
Thus if we count each bivalent chromatin ' element of the first maturation mitosis as two there would be the following number of univalent elements counting in also chromatin nucleoli in this mitosis of the following species Lyg us 21X11611sis 34 Leptopterna dolobrata 34 Calocoris rapidus 33 Poecilocpsus lineatas 35
 P. goJiipJiorus 34 or 36.
There is not found in the Capsidce such a disparity in the number of chromosomes as is found between the species of some other families e.g. the Lygceldce and Coreidin so that the Capsidce wouJd appear to be a mure homogeneous group.
Then if the number of the chromosomes may be loosely taken as a criterion of the degree of specialization a smaller number of chromosomes marking a more specialized stage and this I hold to be true within certain bouuds the Capsidce like the Reduviidce and Phymatidce may be considered relatively prindtive Hemiptera heteroptera in comparison with the Pentatomidcc Lygceidce and Coreidce.
This it seems to me is a vital interest in the study of the chrotnosomes  to find critei'ia for testing relationships.
6.
Nabis annulatus Kent.
I had only a single testis for examination and it showed no spermatogonic mitoses.
There is no complete rest stage in the growth period of this species in which regard it is like certain of the Coreidce.
In the late telophase there is found in the nucleus PI.
X fig.
11 a large usually centrally placed chromatin nucleolus iNT.
2 with more or less uneven contours and attached to it is a smaller true nucleolus X. 
which disappears in the following prophase by gradual decrease in volume.
Somelimcs there are two cliromatin nucleoH generally of different volumes since in such cases neither of these has the volume of the single one they probably represent separated parts of the latter.
In the prophases of the first maturation mitosis which follow immediately upon the stage just described the chromatin nucleolus shows itself to be composed of four dumbbellshaped hence bivalent parts of unequal volumes arranged close together N. 2 fig.
13 Necessarily all four parts must have been present in the preceding stage but have been optically inseparable  the apparently single chromatin nucleolus of the growth period is made up in reality of four bivalent ones.
There is great divei'sity in the mode of mutual apposition of the latter in the prophases sometimes the long axes of all may be parallel but more frequently they cross one another at varying angles no case was seen where all four lie in the same plane.
Quite frequently there are only three chromatin nucleoli in mutual contact near the centre of the nucleus while the fourth is separated from them and placed against the nuclear membrane fig.
12.
All four are true chromatin nucleoli maintaining throughout the growth period their dense structure even contours and red stain with the saffranineviolet method of Hermann while the chromatin of the chromosomes proper stain violet.
In the prophase we are considering are found also six bivalent chromosomes portions of all of Avhich are seen in fig.
13  these are tetrads with very wide longitudinal splitting of the type characteristic for Aiiasa Coreid Toward the close of the prophase these chromosomes shorten and become much more compact structures.
Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis fig.
14 show in every case ten chromatin elements of comparatively large size.
Four of these must correspond to the four chromatin nucleoli and six to the six chromosomes proper of the preceding stages since there has been no loss nor multiplication of any of these elements.
Of the ten elements of the stage of fig.
14 one j.
oa pole view always appears round on lateral view p. fig.
16 it shows a simple dumbbell shape this one much smaller than any of the others probably represents one of the chromatin nucleoli.
The nine remaining elements are likewise all dumbbellshaped but on pole view of the spindle fig.
14 each of them appears elongate sometimes showing a split in the long axis.
On lateral views of the spindle figs.
15.
16 they sometimes appear bipartite sometimes quadripartite.
As a study of them in the preceding prophases demonstrates each becomes placed in the equatorial plane of the spindle so that the transverse split the line of junction of the two component univalent cluoraosomes lies in the equator of the spindle and the longitudinal split of each univalent chromosome lies perpendicular to this plane.
Thus the nine larger chromatin elements of fig.
14 appear elongate on pole view of the spindle because each of these bivalent chromosomes is composed of two univalent chromosomes with their long axes parallel to one another and to the equatorial plane of the spindle.
Hence on pole view of this spindle we see a plate of univalent chromosomes each seen longitudinally  Avhereas such a view in the other Hemiptera studied by me shows the chromosomes seen from their ends since in other Hemiptera it is the general rule that two univalent chromosomes are joined end to end and not as in Nahis side to side.
All ten elements divide transversely in this mitosis so that whole univalent elements become separated from one another.
A pole view of one of the plates of daughter chromosomes resulting from this division fig.
17 shows one smallest element .
 the half of the corresponding element of figs.
14 and 16 and nine larger elements the halves of those of fig.
14.
In fig.
17 each of the nine larger univalent elements shows a wellmarked longitudinal split which had been uauilly hiddvn in the preceding monaster stage fig.
14  it is a general rule in the Hemiptera that the longitudinal split becomes temporarily hidden in the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis.
One point needs to be emphasized there are in the prophases four chromatin nucleoli and six chromosomes and in the monaster stage of the first mitosis again ten elements that is ubviously the same as those in the prophases.
But the four chromatin nucleoli of the prophases figs.
12 13 are smaller than any of the chromatin elements of the monaster stage fig.
14 except the small element in the latter marked p. Accordingly three at least of the chromatin nucleoli must have increased in volume 1901.
NATUEAIi SCIENCES OF I'JIIEADELPHIA 2G7 before the latter stage.
This is remarkable since in all'other Hemiptera studied by me the chromatin nucleoli regularlydecrease somewhat in volume generally to considerable degree before they take their position in the equator of the spindle.
In Coriscus ferns Linn. the only other species of the Nabidce studied I found preceding paper .c. 
in the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis nine bivalent chromosomes and one bivalent chromatin nucleolus.
In tlie growth period preceding there is present in the nucleus one bivalent chromatin nucleolus oflarge size and a smaller one but not a group of four bivalent chromatin nucleoli as in Nabis.
If the chromatin nucleoli be regarded'asdisap peariug chromosomes for which view I have given reasons then we may conclude that Nobis annulatus by virtue of showing four of the chromatin elements on the Avay to disappearance has advanced beyond the stage of Coriscus fents.
6.
Corizus alternatus Say.
Five testes of this species were studied.
Only two clear cases of spermatogouic monasters were found where all the chromatin elements could be readily counted each of these showed fourteen elements.
As PI.
X fig.
18 shows two of the elements are rounded and much smaller than the others N. 2 and these are chromatin nucleoli.
Of the twelve elongate chromosomes proper two those marked A fig.
18 are considerably larger than the others and one of these appears always to have the form of a rod while the other has a bent Vshape.
All fourteen elements are halved in the metakinesis.
In the early portion of the growth jeriod each spermatocytic nucleus contains a clearly bipartite chromatin nucleolus representing a union of the two chromatin nucleoli derived from the spermatogonia each of its univalent components appears occasionally longitudinally split which is unusual in the Hemiptera. In the rest stage following there is a complete rest stage in this species the nucleus fig.
19 contains a bivalent chromatin nucleolus N. 2 which has increased in volume and generally is ovoid in outline but sometimes during the whole growth period the two 'Dr.
F. C. Paalmier who has worked out the spermatogenesis of Anasa iristis De G. has demonstrated to me a longitudinal splitting of the chromatin nucleolus in the growth period of the Lygaiid Myodocha serripe Oliv.
univalent chromatin nucleoli may remain entirely disconnected.
In this rest stage the nucleus contains also one or two larger irregularly shaped true nucleoli fig.
19 N. which are not apposed to the chromatin nucleolus.
Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis PI.
X fig.
20 show seven chromatin elements and lateral views of such cases show that all seven are dumbbellshaped and hence bivalent.
The smallest of these elements is the chromatin nucleolus N. 2 figs.
20 21 and as is generally the case in Hemipiera this divides in metakinesis before the chromosomes do.
Of the six chromosomes proper one is always much larger than the others figs.
20 21 and this one evidently represents the union of the two largest univalent chromosomes of the spermatogonia in fig.
21 is shown besides the chromatin nucleolus X.
2 thi largest chromosome and three of the five smaller cliromosomes  and one chromosome is much smaller than the others often little larger than the chromatin nucleolus this is the one lying nearest to the largest chromosome in fig.
21.
All these elements are transversely divided in the metakinesis.
Occasionally pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis show eight chromatin elements instead of seven this is due to one of the seven bivalent elements having precociously divided into its univalent components.
In the second spermatocyte are regularly found seven univalent elements.
Corizus annulatus in its spermatogenesis thus shows a ver' close similarity to C. lateralis Say previously described by me.
7.
Harmostes reflexulus Say.
The individuals collected at Woods IIolI were marked by Dr. Uhler '' Harmonies reflexulus Say variety  whether a geographical race was thereby intended I cannot say.
Five testes were examined.
Tlie whole process of spermatogenesis seems exactly similar to that described by me previously for individuals of this species from Pennsylvania.
This is one of the Hemiptera with an uneven normal number of chromosomes there being found in the spermatogonia thirteen chromatin elements namely two smaller chromatin nucleoli N. 2 of figs.
'11 and 23 and eleven larger chromosomes proper.
The uneven normal luimber of chromosomes being a relatively rare phenomenon it having been observed so far only in four species of Hemiptera described iu my previous paper l. e.  I have counted iu the testes of the Woods IIoll individuals the chromatin elements in all the cases of spermatogonic monasters which were favorable for such counting with the following results Nine spermatogonia showed exactly thirteen elements in one case I could not determine whether thirteen or fourteen were present.
These cases from four different testes as well as those from four testes of Pennsylvania individuals previously described by me are sufficient to show that the uneven number is not an individual variation due e.g.
to some pathological condition but is probably characteristic of every individual of the species.
The uneven normal number of chromosomes which I have demonstrated also for Protenor belfragei Ahjdus eurinus and Edancala clorsalis represents a stage in the change of the number of chromosomes from one even number to the next successive even number.
For Protenor I have shown that the uneven spermatogonic number is produced by a failure of two of the spermatogonic chromosomes to separate from one another.
This I can now prove for Harmostes also.
For Avhile in most of the monaster stages as in fig.
22 all eleven chromosomes appear more or less simply rodshaped in a few cases as in fig.
23 one of the eleven shows a wellmarked transverse constriction.
Were this constriction a complele division there would be the even number twelve.
Hence for Harmostes the ancestral number of chromosomes must have been twelve and if as is the case in Protenor the odd bivalent chromosome is destined to change from a chromosome into a chromatin nucleolus in the course of time ten chromosomes will be the number for the species.
In conclusion I would again call attention to the importance of studying the chromosomal relations comparatively in a large number of species of a group.
By such investigations not only may much of importance be obtained regarding the evolution of cell structures themselves but by implication a criterion may thereby be obtained for testing genetic relationships.
In opening up this line of research I have drawn attention so far mainly to the numerical relations of the chromosomes and to the chromatin nucleoli as representing chromosomes on the way to disappearance during progressive evolution.
These are the facts most easily determined and there is the surety in such study that the chromosomes are relatively large structures which exist in fact and are not artificially produced by the mode of preparation necessary for their study.
The chromosomes are not apparently formed de novo  at least there is as yet no good proof in any case that they are so formed while on the contrary there is a considerable amount of evidence to show that they are structures which persist from generation to generation even though this is a persistence nvolving a great amount of metabolic change.
Astral radiations appear and disappear or at least disappear as radiations  nucleoli are apparently accumulations of metabolic substances of no morphological regularity as I have shown in another place' and recent experimental studies would show though perhaps in contradiction to the anatomical studies that the centrosomes may be formed anew.
But the chromosomes show more fully than any of these cellular structures a certain degree of morphological stability and this fact taken in connection with their greater adaptability for study entitles them to a basic place in the study of the cell's evolution as well as in the study of evolution in general.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE X.
All figures liave been drawn to the same scale with the camera lucida at the level of the base of the microscope with the Zeiss homogeneous immersion yV ocular 4 tube length 180 mm.
The bounding line in figs.
14 610 1418 and 2023 represents the cell membrane  in figs.
5 1113 and 19 the nuclear membrane.
In lateral views of the mitotic spindles figs.
2 4 7 15 IG 1 the mantle fibres are the only achromatic elements shown and are represented thicker than they are in reality.
Plate X fig.
1.
 Tingis clavata pole view of monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis.
Fig.
2.
 Idem lateral view of the same stage.
Fig.
3.
 Corixa verticaiis pole view of monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis.
Fig.
4.
 Idem lateral view of the same stage.
Fig.
5.
 Idern nucleus in postsynapsis stage.
P'ig.
G.  Cymus luridus pole view of monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis.
Fig.
7.
 Idem lateral view of the same stage.
Figs.
8 9.
 Lygus pratensis var. pole views of monaster stage of first maturation mitosis.
Fig.
10.
 Idem pole view of monaster stage of second maturation mitosis.
Fig.
11.
 J'abis aimulatus nucleus in growth period late telaphase  Journal of Morphology Vol.
XV 1898.
Figs.
12 13.
 Fdetn nuclei in prophases of first maturation mitosis.
Fig.
14.
 Idem pole view of monaster stage of first maturation mitosis.
Figs.
15 16.
 Idem lateral views of melakinesis of first maturation mitosis.
Fig.
17.
 Idem pole view of one plate of daughter chromosomes early anaphase of first maturation mitosis.
Fig.
18.
 Corizus alternatus pole view of monaster stage of a spermatogonium.
Fig.
19.
 Idem nucleus of first spermatocyte rest stage.
Fig.
20.
 Idem pole view of monaster stage of first maturation mitosis.
Fig.
21.
 Idem lateral view of the same stage.
Figs.
22 23.
 Harmostes reflexuliis var. pole views of monaster stage of spermatogonia.
272 pkoleedings of tbe academy of Aprils April 2.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Twenty persons present.
April 9.
The President Samuel G. Dixox .D.
 in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
April 16.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Twelve persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   The Identity of the Gordiaceaa Species Chordodes morgan
and C. pueriHs by Thomas H. Montgomery. 
Description of a NeAV Hemiramphid  by H. W. Fowler.
April 23.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Twentythree persons present.
A paper entitled  A Study of the Genus Ceuturio by James A. G. Rehn was presented for publication.
April 30.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Fourteen persons present.
A paper entitled  Certain Aboriginal Remains of the Northwest Florida Coast Parti by Clarence B. Moore was preseutedfor publication.
Mr. Anthony W. Robinson was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed PILSBRY.
CRUSTACEA OF THE NEW JERSEY CRETACEOUS.
PLATE II.
HIGGINS.
GIZZARD OF ODONATA ZYGOPTERA.
PLATE III.
HIGGINS.
GIZZARD OF ODONATA ZYGOPTERA.
PLATE IV.
HIGGINS.
GIZZARD OF ODONATA ZYGOPTERA.
PLATE V. VANATTA.
NEW MARINE MOLLUSKS.
PILSBRY.
NEW MOLLUSKS.
PLATE VI.
FOX.
TYMPANOEUSTACHIAN PASSAGE OF TOAD.
PLATE VII.
rr.dh.
FOX.
TYMPANOEUSTACHIAN PASSAGE OF TOAD.
PLATE VIII.
is    FOX.
TYMPANOEUSTACHIAN PASSAGE OF TOAD.
PLATE IX.
...' FOX.
TYMPANOEUSTACHIAN PASSAGE OF TOAD.
PLATE X. MONTGOMERY.
CHROMOSOMES OF HEMIPTERA HETEROPTERA.
PROC.
A. N. S. PHILA.
1901.
THE FORFICULID BLATTID MANTID AND PHASMID COLLECTED IN NORTHEAST AFRICA BY DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH.
BY JAMES A.
4.
REHN.
The material of Avhich the present paper is a study was collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith on his two expeditions into northeast Africa and presented by hira to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The first of the expeditions was made in the years 1894 and 1895 and extended as far west as Lake Rudolf the whole account of which has been published in book form. The last expedition was made in 1899 and 1900 the route being by Lake Kudolf on through the unknown to the Nile.
On this last expedition but two specimens of Orthoptera were collected.
The total number of specimens of Orthoptera secured is 239 perhaps the most important collection ever brought from that country.
The remaining portion Acrididie Locmtidce and Gryllidce will shortly be reported upon.
Family FORFICULID.
Labidura sp.
Three immature specimens  Sheikh Huseiu Gallaland September 23 and 27 October 3 1894.
Anisolabis moesta Serville.
1839.
Forficesila moista Serville Orthopteres p. 28.
One specimen c
 between Ginea and Dada near the Darde river Gallaland November 20 1894.
Anisolabis sp One immature female Sheikh Husein Gallaland September 23 1894.
Apterygida buseinae n. sp.
Types one male and two females  c October 5 1894 Sheikh Husein Gallaland.
 September 23 1894 Sheikh Huseiu Gallaland.
9 September 21 1894.
Sheikh Huseiu Gallaland This species apparently has no close affinity with any of the described forms.
1 Ihrough Unknown African Countries by A. Donaldson Smith.
18 .
 Size large.
Autenute composed of nineteen segments.
Pronotum quadrate the posterior angles moderately rounded lateral margins somewhat extended posterior section with a distinct median sulcation tumid anteriorly with a moderate depression centrally the posterior portion being moderately scabrous.
Elytra rather elongate the posterior margin very broadly rounded the whole with the small exposed portion of the wing scabrous.
Abdomen entirely punctate  anterior segments with the posterior margins rather indistinctly beaded each segment laterally with two longitudinal indistinct tuberculations.
Anal segment transverse somewhat glabrous centrolly with a broad sulcus the median portion of the posterior margin truncate.
Forceps not quite half as long as the body widely separated at the base the shafts directed inward the tips incurved the internal margin bearing centrally a wellmarked tooth.
Subgenital plate Avith the posterior margin triangularly extended the apex truncate.
9 .
Size large.
Antennse composed of twentyfour to twentysix segments Subgenital plate with the posterior margin rather broadly rounded.
Forceps straight tips incurved the internal margin dentate anteriorly crenulate posteriorly.
General color blackish brown the lower surface of head and pronotum dull ochraceous in one specimen this is entirely suffused with dark brownish.
Limits dull luteous washed with blackish.
Meamrements.
  Length of body with forceps .
.
21 mm. 22 mm.
Length of forceps 5.75  5  Length of pronotum 2  275 '' Length of anal segment 2.1  2.1  Length of elytra 4  3.75  Width of elytra 3.5 '' 3.75  Family BLATTIDffi.
Aphlebia algerica Bolivar.
1881.
Aphlebia ibjerica Bolivar Ami.
Soc.
Esp.
Soc.
Nat. X p. 499.
Two females Roka and Luku Gallaland September 11 and 17 1894.
Theganopteryx senegalensis Saussure.
1868.
Blatta senegalensis Saussure Revue et Magasiu de Zoologie 2 XX p. 354.
One female Sheikh Husein Gallaland October 3 1894.
Blatta germanica Linnaeus.
1767.
Blatta germanica Linnaeus Syst.
Nat. XII ed. II p. 688.
One male Sheikh Huseiu Gallalaud October 6 1894.
Ischnoptera picea Sehulthess.
1898.
Ischnoptera picea SchulthessSchindler Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Qeuova XXXIX p. 166.
One male Daro Mountains between Ginea and Dada Gallaland November 19 1894.
Periplaneta atricollis Sau.ssure.
1899.
Periplaneta atricollis Saussure AbhandL d. Senckenb.
Naturforsch.
Gesellsch. XXI p. 580.
Four specimens Sheikh Husein Gallaland September 21 and 25 and October 10 1894.
Deropeltis autraniana Saussure.
1895.
Deropeltis autraniana Saussure Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Genova XXXV p. 78.
Two females Jara southern Gallaland October 23 1899.
These two specimens were the only Orthoptera collected by Dr. Smith on his last expedition.
Deropeltis schweinfurthi Saussure.
1895.
Deropeltis schweinfurthi Saussure Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Genova XXXV p. 79.
One female Daro Mountains Gallaland November 18 1894.
Deropeltis wahlbergi Stal.
1856.
Periplaneta waUbergi 8ta. Ofv.
Vet.Akad.
Forhand. p. 167.
Two males between Luku and Dago Tula Gallaland September 18 1894.
Heterogamia africana Linnaeus.
1764.
Blatta africana Linuaus Mus.
Lud.
Ulric p. 108.
One female Gagap near Milmil Somalilaud July 30 1894.
Heterogamia sp.
One female no data.
This specimen resembles S. dohmiana Saussure from North China to a very great extent.
In the absence of material and in the face of the widely diflerent localities it seems best not to attempt to make any definite statement regarding its possible identitv.
Oxyhaloa ferretti Reiche and Fairmaire.
1847.
Blatta ferretti Reiche and Fairmaire Ferret and Galinier's Voy.
en Abyssin'ie III p. 420 PI.
27 IJgs.
1 2.
Two males one Sheikh Huseiu Gallaland October 1 3 894 the other without data.
Nauphoeta gestriana Saussure.
1895.
Naupliata gestrieina Saussure Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Geneva XXXV p. m. Three specimens Sheikh Husein Gallaland October 1 and 0 1894.
Stenopilema capucina Gerstaecker.
1873.
JJerocalymriui capucina Gerstaecker in Van der Decken's Reise III Abth.
II p. 8.
One male and one female the former Avithout data  the latter Sheikh Husein Gallaland October 1 1894.
Stenopilema somali Saussure and Zelintner.
1895.
Stenopilema somali Saussure and Zehntner Eevue Suisse Zoolog. Ill p. 27.
One female no data.
Derocalymma erythrenia Saussure and Zehntner.
1895.
Derocalymma erytJirenia Saussure and Zehntner Revue Suisse Zoolog. Ill p. 31.
Three females two Hargesa and Bodele Somaliland July 21 and August 15 1894 the other with no data.
These specimens range from 12.5 to 20 mm.
in otal length.
Calolampra aptera Schulthess.
1898.
Calolampra aptera SchultbessSchindler Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Geneva XXXIX p. 169.
Three females Daro river near Laga Somaliland November 28 1894.
Phenacisma peltata Kar.sch
189G.
Phenacisma peltata Karscb Entomol.
Zeitung LVII p. 243.
One female immature Tug Terfa Somaliland August 21 1894.
This specimen is referred here with some doubt.
Family MANTID.
Eremiaphila somalica nv1899.
E. spec.
vie.
arahicce SchultbessSchindler Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Genova XXXIX p. 170.
Types two females one The Hand July 13 1894 and the other without locality or date there can be little doubt but that it was taken in the same general region.
Apparently approaching E. arabica Saussure but differing in numerous details with E. aristides Lucas from Suez the relationship is also close but that species is described as wingless.
The specimens or at least one of them were collected in the same character of country frequented by the other species of the genus  barren and waterless plains or absolute deserts.
Size medium.
Head with eyes wider than deep excluding the clypeus anterior border viewed superiorly truncate antennae slender.
Pronotum sparsely tuberculate broader anteriorly than long posteriorly converging anterior border with a broad low central convexity which is perceptibly impressed in the median section ihe margin free angles rectacute augulate posterior border apparently truncate.
Tegmina as in E. arabica except that the main veins ramify and become lost in the reticulations of ihe posterior portion of the tegmina.
Wings well developed extending to the tips of the tegmina.
A.bd'men with the supraanal plate transverse subsinuate centrally subgenital plate rather elongate the apex broadly rounded.
Limljs sparsely tuberculate the tubercles sometimes arranged in regular series.
Anterior tibise with four rather blunt spines on the external margin.
Median and posterior femora each with a row of blunt teeth along the posterior margin the distal extremities bearing a moderatesized spine.
Posterior tibise slightly longer than the femora.
General color ranging from purplish brown on the head and pronotum to clay yellow on the abdomen.
Eyes labrum and lower part of clypeus ferruginous.
Exposed surface of tegmina pale clay yellow becoming dull reddish centrally lower surface with a liar of blackish purple.
Limbs and lateral borders of pronotum pale yellowish pink in one specimen The Hand July 13 1894 the tibiae are obscurely ringed with whitish in the other unknown locality and date the temora are decidedly clay yellow at the bases.
MeasuremenU.
Q The Haud.
713 '94.
9 
Total length 16.5 mm. 18 mm.
Length of pronotum 3  3  Anterior width of pronotum ... 5  4.75 Length of tegmina 7  7.50  Width of abdomen 7  6.75  Length of hind femora 9.25  9.50  This portioa was somewhat damaged in both specimens by the iasertiou of the piu.
It is interesting to know lliat E. arabica has been recorded from Webithal Ogaden by Schulthess' later the same author considers specimens from Obbia somewhat removed from true arabica.
Tarachodes smitM  H'Types male and female the latter immature Tug Terfa and Tug Berka northern Somalilaud August 21 and 23 1894.
This rather peculiar species is evidently allied to T. media SchulthessSchindler and T. ccstuans Saussure systematically and geographically fitting between the two.
From media it differs in the form of the head which is anteriorly truncate instead of irregularly arcuate and the presternum which is unifasciate instead of trifasciate  from sstuans it differs also in the form of the head and in the form and size of the joints of the cerci.
c.
 Size rather large moderately robust.
Head with vertex transverse subtruncate.
Pronotum about twice as long as the greatest width considerably narrower posteriorly than anteriorly the anterior and posterior margins broadly rounded the lateral margins sinuate the whole spineless dorsum bearing four obsolete tubercles centrally.
Tegmina long surpassing the abdomen about four times as long as broad.
Anterior limbs with the femora rather stout and heavy the external margin bearing five large and twelve small teeth the internal margin bearing twelve teeth alternating in size.
Median and posterior limbs lightly built hirsute.
Abdomen rather slender.
Cerci damaged.
General color grayish brown suffused excefi the tegmina with dull purplish brown.
Clypeus labrum and facial shield ochraceous with four transverse blackish bars the superior pair continued upon the olivetinged eyes Pronotum with the suffusing tint arranged in a pair of broken parallel lines along the mediaa section posteriorly tinged with green the lateral margins being thickly speckled.
Limbs irregularly marked with the suffusing tint except the anterior coxse and the lower surface of the tibiae which are pale yellowish the internal section of the tibire being broadly lined with black.
Below dull yellowish except a single band of black across the prosternum.
Tegmina hyaline the longitudinal veins blackish irregularly broken by whitish spaces.
Zool.
Jahr. Syst. VIII p. 69.
 Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Genotn XXXIX p. 170.
 Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Genova XXXIX p. 171.
Ibid.. XXXV.
B.
91.
.
 Size medium robust.
Head with vertex transverse truncate.
Pronotum less than twice as long as the greatest width  the anterior margin rather broadly rounded the posterior truncate with the angles cut off the lateral margins sinuate spined throughout their length one large spine anteriorly the dorsum with two obsolete tubercles near the anterior margin and six paired tubercles placed equidistant from the sulcus to within about three millimeters of the posterior margin.
Tegmina and wings short and undeveloped.
Anterior limbs with the tibije very deep and robust the external margin bearing five large and ten small spines the internal bearing ten spines.
Median and posterior limbs rather heavy hirsute the femora rather angular.
Aldomen with a median ridge and each segmeni with four crescentic crenulations the median ridge on the four anterior segments lobulate posteriorly.
Cerci rather long the terminal segment almost as long as the preceding two.
General color above wood brown irregularly suffused with darker bi'own strongest on the abdomen weakest on the anterior limbs.
Eyes intense brownish black.
Clypeus labrum and facial shield barred as in the male but not so distinctly.
Below pale yellowish clouded with blackish on the abdomen the prosternum with one broad transverse blackish band.
Measurements.
Total length 40 mm. Length 0 body 36.5  29 mm.
Length of tegmina 29  Length of pronotum 9.25  7.8  Greatest width of pronotum .
.
.
4.40  4.25  Length of anterior tibite .... 8  6.6  Tarachodes schulthessi n. n. 1895.
Chiropaclca modesta SchulthessEecbberg Zool.
Jabrb. Syst. VIII p. 69.
1898.
Tlarachodes' modesta ScbulthessScbindler Arm.
Mus.
Civ.
Genova XXXIX p. 173 not of Gerstaecker 1869.
Two males Sheikh Husein Gallaland September 24 and October 1 1894.
The name Tarachodes modesta was first used by Gerstaecker' for a species of the genus from Zanzibar  later Schulthess in ''ArcMv.f.
Naturgesch. XXXV p. 208. describing a species of Chiropacha applied the name modesia to it and later he used it under Tarachodei.
The maintenance of two identical names in the same genus not being permitted I have dedicated this species to its original describer Taracliodes sp.
One immature specimen  Gagap near Milmil northern Somaliland July 30 1894.
This specimen is too immature to make any definite statement regarding its specific affinities.
Elaea somalica Schulthess.
1898.
FAcen somalica SchulthessScbindler Ana.
Mus.
Civ.
Geuova XXXIX p. 170.
Three specimens two males one female Selou and Lafarok Somaliland August 6 and 13 1894 Fertza Gallaland September 12 1894.
Compsotliespis falcifera n. sp.
Type one specimen near the Darde river Raia Wacheli eastern Gallaland September 1 1894.
This species differs from C. cmomala Saussure in the much greater size in the nonmamillate eyes the smaller and weaker forelimbs and various other details.
Form slender.
Head elongate with a broad low median ridge vertex not at all prominent ocelli small eyes subelliptical antennae filiform.
Pronotum rather elongate slightly broader posteriorly than antei'iorly the length being more than six times the greatest width lateral margins almost straight slightly constricted anterior to the insertion of the coxse finel' tuljerculate anterior and posterior margins arcuate the latter flattened centrally with an obscure eraargination  the whole surface finely tuberculate.
Tegmina abbreviate semihyaline rather coriaceous at the base.
Abdomen depressed narrow the lateral margins almost straight the basal and median segments one and a half times as long as wide terminal segments short the posterior margins with a median rounded lobe.
Supraanal plate triangular moderately produced the apex truncate subemargiuate and obscurely carinate centrally the latter flanked by two longitudinal depressions each of which is laterally bordered by another carinas.
Cerci broad compres.sed 'Zool.
Jahrh. Syst.
VIII p. 69.
 Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Qenota XXXIX p. 173. composed of six segments increasing in lengtii the tei'minal one almost half again as long as its predecessor the whole bearing an obsolete median ridge.
Subgenilal plate compressed deeply folded the central inclosure very narrow styles moderately long subspatuiate.
Anterior limbs very slight and weak the coxce and femora being about the same length and bulk the outer margin of the latter bearing four very minute spines discoidal spines numbering three tibice not half as long as the femora the margin not dentate  metatarsi about as long as the tibia.
Median and posterior pairs of limbs very long and slender the median femora each bearing two genicular spines tibiae longer than the femora.
General color pinkish brown the limbs touched with dull brownish eyes testaceous lower surface of the pronotum suffused with dull reddish  elytra decidedly pinkish at base anterior femora with a line of reddish black on the lower margin.
Measurements.
Total length 41 mm.
Length of pronotum 13.25 mm.
Greatest width of pronotum 2 mm.
Gi'eatest width of abdomen 3 mm.
Length of tegmina 15.5 mm.
Length of anterior femora 5.75 mm.
Length of posterior femora 12.2 mm.
Length of posterior tibiae 14 mm.
Ligaria producta n. sp.
Type one immature female Sheikh Husein Gallaland September 30 1894.
Closely allied to T. trlgoncdis Saussure' from South Africa but differing in the shape of the pronotum.
The pronotum of trigonalis is described as having  parte antice lata ac late rotundata .... marginibus baud dentatus while in the specimen before me the pronotum is somewhat produced antei'iorly the margin being very narrowly rounded.
Size medium.
Head from the facial aspect about equally long and broad occiput subtruncate eyes subfusiform liltle attenuate superiorly.
Pronotum about twothirds as broad as long centrally with moderate dilations the borders crenuladentate  anterior section diminishing in width the margin narro wly rounded  '' Abhajid.
Senckenb.
Nat.
Gesdlsch. XXI p. 596. posterior section slightly constricted the margin truncate.
Anterior femora stout and heavy the inner margin spiued very much as in L. trigonalls the apical spines being alternately large and small except the two terminal spines which are large with a diastema between them tibite armed with seven spines tarsus with the first joint metatarsus about equaling the otlier four.
iMedian and posterior limbs slender the apical spines equally visible on each the first tarsal joint metatarsus of tJie median pairsh'ghtly shorter than the other segments.
Abdomen depressed with a central carinal fold which is more elevated posteriorly than anteriorly on each segment the four anterior segments having the 0sterior margin centrally emarginate while the others have the same truncate.
Subgenital plate somewhat produced broadly rounded with minute styles.
General color dull wood brown irregularly sprinkled with blackish spots.
The occiput bears a transverse line of grayish which is visibly continued to a greater or less extent upon the eyes.
The upper surface of the abdomen is tinged with yelloAvish while the limbs are obscured with blackish brown.
Measurements.
Length of body 15.5 mm.
Width across eyes 3 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.25 mm.
Width of pronotum 2.25 mm.
Length of anterior femora 4.00 mm.
Sphodropoda rudolfae n. sp.
Type one female near southern end of Lake Rudolf western Gallaland September 1 1895.
Allied to S. trhnacula Saussure but differing in the shape of the anterior portion of the pronotum and the general thickness of the shaft besides the much shorter tegmina.
Size smaller than S. irhnucxda but very stoutly built.
Head rather long the facial aspect broader than deep occiput slightly arcuate  facial shield as wide as deep superiorly obtuse angulate the extreme tip truncate centrally with a pair of very obscure carinse eyes rather large globose the lower margin somewhat produced.
Pronotum over twice as long as the greatest width which is anterior to the middle  the shaft bearing a prominent median carina and somewhat constricted posterior to the dilation the width here being but half that of the latter the collar rather acuminate the anterior angle rather narrowly rounded the posterior margin truncate the dilation having dentate margins.
Tegraina moderately long not quite reaching the tip of the supraanal plate the marginal field coriaceous the stigma large and opaque the discoidal and anal fields semihyaline the costal margin pectinate.
Anterior coxie bearing on the proximal extremity a blunt toothlike projection the inferior margin bearing five large spines a small one occupying each diastema femora rather heavy the external margin with four spines fifteen on the internal with some of the apical ones reduced in size and presenting a formula which would give for the anterior spines reading posteriorly Iiili  tibise almost half as long as the femora bearing ten spines on the external and fifteen on the internal margins.
Median and posterior limbs moderately slender the tibite much lighter and more slender than the femora the first tarsal joint metatarsus very much elongate and equaling the succeeding segments.
Supraanal plate very broad and shallow the margin broadly rounded.
Subgenital plate very large the posterior portion deeply folded and supplied with short thick fleshy styles.
General color dull ochre yellow tinged with dragon's blood red ' on the posterior border of each abdominal segment and on the limbs the median and posterior tibire being little sufiused.
Head obscurely suffused with olivaceous this tint being especially noticeable on the eyes clypeus and mandibles.
Tegmina dilute dragon's blood red palest at the anal lorder richest around the stigma which is cream colored.
3Ieasurements.
Length nf body 50.5 mm.
Width of head 9.5 mm.
Length of pronotura 17.25 mm.
Greatest width of pronotum 7 mm.
Least width of pronotum 3.75 mm.
Length of tegmina 26.5 mm.
Greatest width of tegmina 10 mm.
Length of anterior femora 16.5 mm. 
Ridgway's Nomenclature of.
Colors.
Sphodromantis bioculata Burmeister.
1833.
Sphodromantis bioculata Burmeister Handb.
d.
Eat. Bd.
II Abth.
II Pt.
I p. 537.
One female immature  Sheikh Husein Gallalaud October 8 1894.
Mantis sacra Thunberg.
1815.
Mantis sacra Thunberg Mem.
Acad.
St.
Petersb. V p. 239.
One male Sheikh Husein Gallaland September 30 1894.
Hoplocorypha bottegi Saussure.
1395.
Hoplocoi'ypha bottegi Saussure Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Genova XXXV p. 91.
One immature specimen Aimola Gallaland March 16 1895.
Hoplocorypha rapax Bormaas.
1381.
Hoplocorypha rapax Barmans Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Genova XVI p. 211.
One immature specimen near the Daro Mountains between Ginea and Tulu Gallaland November 18 1894.
This specimen is referred here with some little doubt the character '' tibiis tarsisque posticis nigro multipilosus  not being at all appreciable.
Miomantis fenestrata Fabricius.
1781.
Mantis fenestrata Fabricius Spect.
Ins  I p. 319.
One female immature and one male  Luku Gallalaud September 17 and 18 1894.
Miomantis spOne female immature Sheikh Husein Gallaland October 1 1894.
Fischeria sp.
One male Sheikh Mahomet Gallaland October 30 1894.
This large specimen is unfortunately headless.
Ischnomantis media  sp.
Type female somewhat immature  near the upper Wobi Shebeli Gallaland December 24 1894.
Closely allied to 7. spinigera Schulthess 'but differing in the length of the supraanal plate which in the new form is less than the length of the anterior coxse while in splnigera it equals the anterior femora.
' Ann.
Mns.
Civ.
Qenova XXXIX p. 17o.
Size large.
Head viewed facially much bi'oadcr than deep the occiput arcuate eyes prominent clypeus bearing a transverse ridge.
Pronotum four times as long as its greatest width the lateral margins dentate anterior to the dilation denticulate posterior to the same anterior margin somewhat produced rounded posterior margin truncate the angles obliquely trimmed median carina visible on the shaft replaced by a sulcus on the collar.
Anteiior coxaj with the lower margin dentate the other margins denticulate femora rather elongate five spines on the external margin fifteen spines anteriorly and eleven to twelve denticules posteriorly on the internal the superior margin with a very slight concavity tibire Avith nine spines on the external margin with a basal diastema fourteen on the internal.
Median and posterior pair of limbs very slender and light tibito with the internal margins spined metatarsus of the posterior limbs very much longer than the other tarsal joints and closely spined beloAv.
Abdomen with lateral elongate crescentic convolutions.
Supraanal plate elongate lanceolate the apex narrowly rounded centrally keeled the whole shorter than the anterior coxfe.
General color wood brown' sprinkled and finely mottled with umber the ground tint being purest on the anterior limbs.
Eyes walnut brown mottled with blackish.
Anal region and lower surface of abdomen tinged with ochraceous.
Co in pa ra tive Measurem ents.
 media.
 spinigera from Schulthess.
107.5 mm.
113 mm.
30.5  30 7  6.3  12.5  20 .
19.5  24  '.
35.75  Length of body Length of pronotum .
Greatest width of pronotum Length of supraanal plate.
Length of anterior coxe .
Length of anterior femoi'a.
Length of posterior femora.
Paraspliendale minor Schulthess.
1898.
Paraspliendale viinor SchulthessSchindler Aou.
Mup.
Civ.
Geneva XXXIX p. 177.
Two females one immature Sheikh Husein and Tulu Gallaland September 29 and November 22 1894.
 Ridgway's Nomenclature.
Oxyophthalma gracila Saussure.
1861.
Oxyophthalmus gracilis Saussure A.nn.
Soc.
Ent.
France 4 I p. 470.
One male Bodele Tug Terfa Somaliland August 20 1894.
As far as it i
possible to judge from Saussure' s description and figure this specimen is identical with his gracilis except that in the specimen before rae the eyes are not so mammillate as in his figure.
Oxypila annulata Serville.
ISSl.
Oxypila annulata Serville Rev.
Orthopt. p. 23.
Four specimens one male three females one immature  Sheikh Husein 3 and Diibuli 1 Gallaland September 16 and October 6 1894.
Pseudocreobotra amarae n. sp.
Type female headwaters of the Burga river near Dagugi country of the Amara western Gallaland April 24 1895.
This species is related to P. tmhlbergii Stal from Zanzibar but it is larger and differs in the form and comparative size of the pronotum.
Size rather large.
Head transverse the vertex prolonged into a shallowly bifid peduncle ocelli very large and prominent clypeus and labrum carinate the former triangularly produced into falcate extensions eyes very rominent bluntly acuminate each flanked on the posterior margin by a blunt tubercle.
Pronotum with two lateral and one posterior prominent rounded lobe.
 the anterior margin being broadly rounded the central section heavily bossed forming four tubercles the large anterior one being considerably cristate the lateral lobes thin coriaceous and ascending.
Tegmina long and moderately broad central and basal sections opaque apical section hyaline.
Anterior coxse finely scalrous the lower margin with both large and small spines to the number of 6 or 7 femora bearing four spines on the exlernal margin each spine being thick and heavy at the base the tip being constricted and subuugiculate the internal margin with nine .spines the second third and fifth being reduced in size metatarsi superiorly lamellate the external margin sulpectinate the internal margin with fourteen spines increasing in size from the proximal extremity.
Median and posterior limbs rather slender the femora with apical rotundate dilations on the posterior margin.
Abdomen broad and heavy each segment with a lateral angular production.
Subgenital plate broadly rounded with a central depression and a posterior median emargination.
General color between gamboge yellow and lemon yellow' strongest on the head pronotum limbs and tegminal rings.
Head with the superior aspect clouded with greenish  eyes walnut brown clouded with blackish palest inferiorly.
Pronotum with the posterior half deeply suffused with dull greenish.
Tegmina basally pale peagreen with a blotch of chromium green'' the characteristic rings surrounded by the latter tint the rings arranged as follows a central black spot a moderately broad ring of chromium greeu followed by a bar of slightly greater width of modified lemon yellow and externally a narrow black ring.
Limbs all ringed with narrow bands of dull emerald green the lower surface of each of the anterior femora with two spots of orange.
3feasurements.
Total length 33. mm.
Width of head 6 Length of pronotum 6.75  Greatest width of pronotnm 9  Length of elytra 32.5  Greatest width of elytra 7.5  Length of anterior femora 10.5  Length of posterior femora 8.
25  Pseudoharpax virescens Serville.
1839.
Creobroier virescens Serville Orthoptores p. 162 PI.
3 fig.
7.
Four specimens one male three immature females Sheikh Husein Gallaland September 28 and 30 October 9 and 10 1894.
The male has a broad dorsal median stripe of black on the pronotum.
Popa undata Fabricius.
1793.
Mantis xindata Fabricius Eut.
Syst. II p. 19.
Three specimens two males one immature one larval one female Sheikh Husein Gallaland and near Tug Lomo between Milmil and Bodele Somaliland August 12 September 30 and October 10 1894.
The males have the supraanal plate apically truncate while that portion of the female is much more acuminate.
.
 Ridgway's Nomenclature.
 The data with this specimen reads Smith River VIII 12 94.
Smith River cannot be found on any of Dr. Smiths charts and the locality above s that of the datfe.
Empusa egena Charpentier.
1841.
Empusa erjena Charpentier Germar's Zeitsebr. Ill p. 297.
One larval female Laga Gallalaad November 29 1894.
Idolomorpha dentifrons Saussure.
1895.
Idolomorpha dentifrons Saussure Grandidier's Hist de Madagascar Orthopteres Pt.
I p. 244.
One female  Daro Mountain.
 between Ginea and Tulu Gallaland November 19 1894.
Blepharis cornuta Schulthess.
1895.
Blepharis cornuta SchulthessRechberg Zoolog.
Jahrb. Sjst.
Abth. A'lII p. 72.
Two immature females vicinity of Laga Gallaland Xovember 28 and 30 1894.
The two specimens before me differ somewhat from the figure of cornuta the anterior tibiae being longer than those figured though this may be due to foreshortening in the figure.
On the whole the variations amount to so little that there is no doubt as to their identity.
Family PHASMID.
Palophus reyi Grandidier.
1869.
Ischnopoda reyi Graudidier Revue et Magasia de Zool.
2 XXr p. 292.
One female no data.
Total length 202 mm.
Length of tegmina .
25 Length of wings 67 Length of anterior femora 5G Length of median femora 42 Length of posterior femora 54 Clonaria gracila Burmeister.
1838.
Bacillus fjracila Burmeister Handb.
d.
Ent. II Abtb.
II Pt.
I p. 561.
One male Berbera Somaliland July 3 1894.
The collection also includes four female specimens of Phasmidce taken at the following localities  Sheikh Huseiu Gallaland October 8 1894.
Sheikh Mahomet Gallaland October 30 1894.
Luku Gallaland September 17 1894.
Between Tug Lomo and Bodele Somahland August 12 1894.
These are damaged to such an extent that determination is very difficult or impossible many of the portions used in classification being absent or badly damaged.
