ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA.-V. BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The descriptioa of Japanese ClausiliidoB is resumed in the preseut paper.
Enough material is dow at hand to permit some work looking beyond merely descriptive treatment, while every sending from Mr. Hirase adds to the data on one or another of the problems presented by these intricately constructed creatui-es.
I have below considered the evolution of the " lunella," as shown in some newly discovered species of Stereophcedusa, in which young shells show a series of distinct palatal folds, like the European tertiary Clausiliidoi and the more primitive forms of Eastern Asia, while old shells have a true lunella.
A similar transformation has likewise been observed in a Mcgaloph(edusa just received.
The evidence indicates that the lunella has been independently acquired, in different phyla, by a process of parallel evolution.
Diagrams showing chief modifications of the palatal armature in EemiphiBdusa : Fig.
1, C. aulacophord ; fig.
2, C. crenilabmm ; fig.
3, G. attrita ; fig.
4, C. hakonensis ; fig.
5, C. hyperolia ; fig.
6, C. shikokuensis ; fig.
7, G. perifjnobilis ; fig.
8, G. munus : fig.
9, G. micropeas ; fig.
11, G. firaeilispira.
I must again express ray deep obligation for material to Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan.
His tireless researches, critical eye for detecting species, and exactness in recording localities are worthy of high commendation.
Without these qualities the new and relatively exact literature of Japanese land mollusks would not exist.
Section HEMIPH^DUSA Boettger.
The system of groups set forth by Dr. Boettger in the Clausilienstudlen, while sufficient at that time, is quite inadequate for the classification of the great number of Chinese and Japanese species now known.
For Japanese species my studies lead me to adopt the arrangement offered below.
The clausilium in all the groups is rounded or tapering at the end, and not thickened or only slightly so.
a.
— Inferior lamella spirally ascending within, visible in a front view, receding less deeply than in other Hemiphiedusoi ; shell rather large ; superior lamella continuous with the spiral.
h. — Interlamellar space corrugated; lucella united to the middle of a lower palatal plica, contiguous to or united with an upper pala'al plica near the middle (fig.
2).
Clausilium tapering below, recurved and spoutlike at the apex, Group of C. ptychochila.
h\ — Interlamellar space smooth; luuella curving inward above, uuited below to the middle of the lower palatal plica (figs.
3, 4).
Clausilium narrowly tongue-shaped.
Group of C. platyauchen.
a\ — Inferior lamella receding, inconspicuous or not visible in a front view.
b.
— Several palatal plicie; no lunella (fig.
11), Group of C. validluseida.
6\ — A short or rudimentary lunella below one or two palatal plicje; no lower palatal plica (figs.
9, 10), Group of C. suhlunellata.
h'\ — A lunella developed.
c. — No palatal plicje; plica principalis subobsolete or wanting; superior lamella separated from the spiral lamella (fig.
5), .
Group of C. hyperolia.
(•'.—Superior continuous with the spiral lamella; principal plica well devel 'ped ; an upper palatal plica px'esent.
Clausilium curved, concave on the inner face.
d. — Lunella bow-shaped (fig.
H) or J-shaped (fig.
7), united to the upper palatal plica, curved inward below; superior and spiral lamelkc united, Group of C. awajien--<i-^.
624 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACxVDEMY Ol' [DeC. , d'.
— Lunella slightly curving inward below, not united above with the upper palatal plica (fig.
8).
Clausilium rapidly tapering to the mucronate apex, Gronj) of C. vinnus.
d\ — Lunella straight, joined to the middle of the upper and lower palatal plicse, like the letter I (fig.
1), .
.
.
Group of C. aulacophora.
c^ — Superior and spiral lamella?
contiguous or separated; lunella curving inward below, joining the short palatal plica above.
Clausilium unusually straight and flat, rounded at the apex, Group of C. Pinto.
A somewhat different sequence of groups would result from using the characters of the clausilium for the primary divisions, but while probably more natural, such an arrangement would be more difficult in practical use.
The clausilium is variously specialized in the groups of C ptychochila, G. munus and G. Pinto, much alike in the other groups.
The only species, so far as I know, not provided for in the above key is C. platydera, which belongs without doubt to the platyauchen group, but has the receding and sti'aightened inferior lamella of the other division; but there are also some forms partially intermediate between the groups of G. validiuscula, G. -mhlunellata and C. aulaeophora, and further knowledge will doubtless reveal various other intermediate species.
The group of G. validiuscula is probably a composite one.
Group of G. .nibluiiellata.
Clausilia sericina var.
rhopalia n<'v.
Shell rimate, fusiform, rather obese below, the upper half attenuated; pale yellow; very finely striate throughout, the sculpture not coarser on the last whorl.
Outlines concave above, the apex obtuse.
Whorls 10, moderately convex, the last compi'essed laterall v. Aperture ovate, somewhat oblique; peristome continuous, white, reflexed and thickened, the upper margin in contact with prc(!cding whorl.
Superior lamella oblique, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella which ascends to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella thick and forming a rather conspicuous fold deep in the aperture, straightly ascending within, and penetrating as far as the ?i)iral lamella.
Subcoluraellar lamella deeply immersed, terminating about a half whorl withiu.
Principal plica visible deep in the throat, ascending to a lateral position.
Upper palatal plica narrow, oblique, lateral, well separated from the straight, oblique, low aud narrow lunella.
Lower palatal plica subobsolete or wanting.
Length 18.3, diain.
4.3 mm.
Length 17, diam.
4.3 mm.
Clausilium very narrow, parallel-sided, a little excised on the palatal side of the apex.
Mikuriya, Suruga.
Types No.
82,298 Coll.
A. N. S. P., from No.
7365 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This somewhat club-shaped form is noticeable for its fine striation and pale color.
The narrow lunella is longer than in other species of the group which I have seen.
C. sericiaa, which has not been figured nor very fully described, seems to be its nearest relative.
Group of C. aivajiensls.
This group comprises Hemiphcedusce in which the lateral or latero-dorsal lunella is J-shaped or bow-shaped, its upper end l)eing united to the middle, or sometimes to the lower end, of a short upper palatal plica, the lower end curving inward.
The clausilium is typical of Hemiphcedusa, being parallel-sided, not oblique or thickened at the distal end, and usually it is emarginate on the columellar side of the filament.
The species are numerous on Shikoku Island, and will probably prove difficult to limit when more localities are explored aud further slightly differentiated races come to light.
Others are known from Awaji, western Nippon aud Kiushiu.
None have come to my hands from middle or northern Nippon, or from Yesso.
Species with J-shaped lunella: C. awajiensis Pils., C perignobilis and var.
koehiemis Pils., C. ii^chna aud var.
neptis Pils., C. .iubawantiaca Pils., C. harimensis Pils.
and C. higoends Pils.
Species with bow-shaped lunella: C. ignobllis Sykes, C. shikotaenf^is Pils.
Clausilia higoensis Pilsbry.
PI.
XXXV, figs.
1, 2, 3, 1.
Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, p. 499 (October 2, 1901).
Distinct by its inflated shell, attenuated above, and with a more or less developed wave or crest behind the outer lip.
In some specimens this is strongly developed (PI.
XXXV, fig.
3), much as in 40 6'.
oxijcyma ; in others (fig.
4) it is hardly noticeable; but there are intermediate specimens.
The type locality is not oNIidumate, as at first announced, but Minamata, Higo.
The specimens figured are from that place.
Perfectly similar forms have been sent from Togo, Satsuraa, Xo.
760 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Clausilia ischna Pilsbry.
PI.
XXXV.
figs.
15, 16. rils})ry, these Proceedings for 1901, Vol.
LIII, p. 500 (October 2, 1901).
Shell rimate, fusiform, very slender, the length about five times the diameter, attenuated above, brown or pale brown, somewhat glossy, finely striate, more coarsely so behind the lip.
Whorls 11^, moderately convex, the last somewhat flattened above, having a low swelling some distance behind the lip, a little produced forward.
Aperture piriform, small, slightly oblique.
Superior lamella rather strong, marginal, slightly oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella receding, not visible in a front view, but in oblique view seen to be quite strong; straightly ascending within the last whorl, and giving off a distinct branch toward the spiral lamella; its spiral portion weak, shorter and much lower than the spiral lamella, reaching inward to a ventra position.
Subcolumellar lamella deeply immersed, its lower end barely visible or not visible within the aperture.
Principal plica visible in the throat, extending inward a little past a lateral position.
Lunella lateral, straight and joining the middle of a very short upper palatal plica above, curving strongly inward below.
Peristome reflexed, continuous, emarginate at the termination of the superior lamella.
Clausilium long and parallel-sided, deejily emarginate on the columellar side of the filament.
Length 1G.5, diam.
3.3, length of aperture 3 mm.
Length 15.7, diam.
3 mm.
Kochi, Tosa, Shikoku Island (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
657a).
Types No.
81,580 Coll.
A. N. S. P. The somewhat stouter, paler var.
JiejMs is similar to C. ischna internally.
This species is more slender than any other known member of the group of C. awajiensis, and has more whorls.
The closing apparatus is similar to that of several other species of the group.
It differs from C. subaurantiaca from Deyai, Nagato, in the follow ing respects: The surface is more coarsely striate: the last whorl does not have a convex belt aboVe the position of the principal plica, and has more of a swelling on its latter portion; the spire has one more whorl.
It remains to be seen whether intergrades exist between this species from Shikokn and subaurantiaca from the Province of Nagato in western Nippon.
They are certainly closely related.
Group of C. Phito.
Small, solid Hemipluedusw with the clausilium unusually straight and flat, rounded or a little tapering at the apex, abruptly bent near the filament and emarginate or excised on the columellar side thereof.
Superior lamella contiguous to or separated from the spiral lamella, which is short, barely reaching the ventral side.
Inferior lamella deeply receding, straightened and strong inside.
This group has some affinity to Zaptijx in both shell and clausilium, but it has not the accessory lamellae and plicre of that section.
It is not closely related to other Hemiphredusan groups.
Two species, from the islands Tane-ga-shima and Yaku-shima, are known : C. Pinto, in which the last whorl is normal, and C. jdychocyma, which has a wave or crest and several strong wrinkles behind the outer lip.
Clausilia Pinto Pilsbry.
PI.
XXXV, figs.
12. i:;, IJ.
Pilsbry, these Proceedings, Vol.
LIII, p. 501 (October 2, 1901j.
Shell very small, fusiform, solid and strong, flesh-colored, weakly marked with slight growth-wrinkles, eroded in irregular spots.
Spire regularly tapering to a rather small apex.
"Whorls about 8, the last without crest or bther conspicuous sculpture behind the lip.
Aperture small, squarish-ovate, the lip somewhat reflexed, very thick, white, hardly free above.
Superior lamella marginal, contiguous to the spiral lamella, which penetrates barely to the ventral side.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding, high •and stout within the last whorl, subvertically ascending, a trifle sinuous, extending inward as far as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Principal plica less than a half whorl long, extending shortly beyond the lunella.
Lunella lateral, straight and joining a short upper palatal plica above, curving well inward and ending in a slight nodule below.
Length 9.5, diam.
2.6 mm.
Length 8.5, diam.
2.3 mm.
Clausilium (PI.
XXXV, iig.
13) remarkably straight, rounded at the apex, abruptly bent near the filament, and very doeply excised on the columellar side of the latter, Tane-ga-shima, CJsumi, in the northeastern group of the Riukiu Islands.
Types Xo.
82,553 Coll.
A. X. S. P., from Xo.
663 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A smaller species than C. j^tychocyma, with the last whorl plain and normal, not strongly sculptured, as C. piychocyma is.
The solid, smoothish shell, short spiral and columellar lamella, and peculiarly flat clausihum are the same in both species.
At the time I wrote a preliminary account of the Tane-ga-shima and Yaku-shima snails these points of relationship were not appreciated, and I took a wrong view of the affinities of C. pinta.
Clausilia ptyjjhocyma Pilsbry.
PI.
XXXV, figs.
7.
8, 9.
Pilsbry, these Proceediurja for 1901, Vol.
LIU, p. 501 (October 2).
Shell obesely fusiform, rather acutely tapering above, buff or in part pale reddish, extremely solid and thick, weakly striate, almost smooth.
Whorls 9, the latter part of the last whorl having a strong wave or crest, accompanied by several smaller but strong wrinkles, behind and parallel to tiie outer lip.
Apei'ture small, squarish-ovate, the peristome slightly expanded, thick, hardly free above.
Superior lamella low and small but stout, separated from the spiral lamella, which runs inward barely to the ventral side.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding, strong and obliquely ascending inside, penetrating as far as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella immersed, its lower end visible in an oblique view in the aperture, sometimes very weakly emerging.
Principal plica rather short, visible deep in the throat and extending shortly past the lunella.
Lunella lateral, weak, straight above, curving inward below and joining or contiguous to a very short, nodulelike lower palatal plica.
Length 11, diam.
8 mm.
Clausilium (PI.
XXXV, fig.
10) parallel-sided, remarkably straight in profile, tapering on both sides and slightly acuminate below, excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Tane-ga-shima, Osumi.
Types No.
81,932, Coll.
A. X. S. P., from No.
664a of Mr Hirase's collection.
An exceedingly solid lictle Clausilia, quite unlike C. tanegashinuc in its immersed or nearlv immersed subcolumellar lamella, and especially iu the clausilium, which is unusually straight and not in the least oblique at the apex.
Clausilia ptychocyma var.
yakushimae Pilsbry.
PI.
XXXV, fig.
11.
Pilsbry, /.
c. Yaku-shiraa, Osumi.
Types No.
81,934 Coll.
A. N. S. P., from No.
6646 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA Pilsbry.
Clausilium obliquely truncate distally, the columellar side of the apex slanting, strongly thickened along the inner face.
Shell having the superior and spiral lamelliTC contiguous or separated, the inferior lamella deeply receding, straight or obliquely ascending inside; spiral and columellar lamella usually continued within past the ventral side; luuella united to both upper and lower palatal plicse or separated from the upper plica, usually latero-ventral or ventral in position.
Type C. mikado Pils.
The characters of this section were only imperfectly perceived when it was originally proposed last year.
Further investigation shows it to be quite distinct from HemlpJucditsa (which resembles it in the receding inferior lamella), by the oblique and thickened end of the clausilium.
Moreover, the lamellae extend further inward, the closing apparatus retreats more deeply: there is often a crest on the neck parallel to the outer lip, and in some species the lip is plicate in the subcolumellar region, and there may be interlamellar folds.
The section includes three groups of species, distinguished as follows : a.
— A strong ci'est behind the outer lip, Group of C. tauegashimce.
a*.
— No distinct crest.
h. — Lunella curving inward above (coucrescent with the outer end of the upper palatal plica), Group of C. hilahratu.
b\ — Lunella straight ; together with the palatal plica^ forming an I-shaped barrier, or separated from the upper palatal plica, Group of C. viikado.
Group of C. hilahrata.
Tyrannophpedusse of ordinary form, with the clausilium oblique and thickened at the apex, excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Superior and spiral lamella?
sepai-ated or nearly so, the spiral and inferior extending inward to or past the ventral side.
G3y Pll()CEEDIX(;8 OF THE ACADEMY Ol" [DcC.
, Inferior lamella obliquely or somewhat spirally ascetidiug withiu.
Siibcolumellar lamella emerging, usually in a group of lip-folds.
Lunella ventral or lateral, rather straight above, united below to a lower palatal plica.
No upper palatal plica.
The oblique end of the clausilium, disconnected superior and spiral lamellte, and frequent development of a group of lip-fold'^ are the chief characters of this group.
It differs from the mikado group ])y the absence of an upper palatal plica and the discontinuous superior and spiral lamelko.
The plication of the lip in the region of the inferior and subcolumellar lamellce varies from strongly developed to obsolete in each of the species known among individuals from most localities.
a.
— Peristome notched on the left side of the superior lamellaShell obese below, the upper, attenuated portion thick, apical whorl large; length about 15 mm., .
C sururienska\ — Peristome not notched or emargiuate near the superior lamellab.
— Early whorls almost always self-amputated in adults.
Length 17-25 mm., dependent upon the number of whorls retained, as well as upon the size of the individual; diam.
4^-6 mm., .
.
.
.
C. bilabrata.
b^.
— Apex entire; shell slender, acutely tapering above, the first whorl minute; length 12-15, diam.
3-3^ mm., C. Oscariana.
Clausilia bilabrata Smith.
PI.
XXXM, figs.
17-24.
ClausiU'a bilabrata E. A. Smith, Quarterly Jouru.
of Conchology, I, p. 120.
Boettger, Jahrb.
d. D. Malak.
Ges., 1878, p. 103, wUh var.
ptycholmna, PI.
4, fig.
6.
Kobelt, t. c, p. 96, PI.
9, fig.
12.
Molleudor£f,Nachr'bl.
d. I).
Malak.
Ges., 1900, p. 109.
As no good illustration of this species has appeared, it is figured here for comparison with the two new forms of the same group, and to show the local variations.
The shell is strong, almost always truncate and plugged in adults, 7 to 10 whorls usually remaining.
It varies in color from straw-yellow to rather dark brown.
It is very finely striate, attenuated above, the last whorl laterally compressed.
Aperture ovate, the peristome reHexed and well thickened, very shortly free above, usually but not always corrugated by several or many folds grouped around the subcolumellar lamella.
The superior lamella is marginal, rather small, and separated from or sometimes almost continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates past the ventral side.
The inferior lamella recedes very deeply, is not visible 1901.
J NATLliAJ.
SCIENCES OK I'lIILA UELl'IIIA.
Hoi from the mouth, except for a slender continual ion across the lip parallel with the subcolumellar lamella in most specimens, but often wanting.
It ascends rather straightly but obliquely inside, and continues inward as far as the spiral lamella.
The principal plica is almost a whorl long, approaching the aperture, and continued within past the ventral side.
The luuella is latero-ventral or almost ventral, oblique, almost straight, but curved a trifle inward above, and connected with a strong lower palatal plica very near its inner end.
The clausilium (PI.
XXXVI, figs.
20, 21) is parallel -sided, very obliquely cut off and thickened on the columellar side of the apex.
It is deeply emargiuate or excised on the columellar side of the filament.
I have received specimens from the following localities: Nippon — Kobe, Setsu; Takaya, Bitchu; Toyonishikami, Nagato.
Senzan, Awaji.
Shikoku: Ushirogawa and Okinoshima, Tosa, Kiushiu : Fukuregi and Yatsushiro, Higo.
The distribution of C. hllabraia includes southwestern Nippon, Awaji and Shikoku Inlands, Kiushiu and the Iki Islands; the latter locality on the authority of Dr. ().
von Mollendorff, who records specimens collected by Fruhstoi'fer.
While there is some variation fi*om place to place, I do not see grounds for the definition of any races or subspecies, except the variety defined by Boettger, which I have not seen.
The degree of plication of the right margin of the peristome is subject to wide individual variation in C. hilahrata, C. Oscariana and C. suruSpecimens from Kobe are pale colored, retain 7^-9 whorls, and either have the right margin plain, except for the emerging inferior and subcolumellar laraellie (fig.
17), or many-folded (fig.
19).
They measure between, alt.
22.5, diara.
5.5 mm., whorls 9, and alt.
20, diam.
4.8 mm., whoi-ls 8.
At Takaya, Bitchu, the shells are larger, and vary from a single emerging lamella, the subcolumellar.
to three or four folds.
Alt.
25, diam.
5.8 mm., whorls 8i; alt.
21, diam.
6 mm., whorls 7^.
They are corroded, and more or less clothed with green ajgre on the back (figs.
23, 24).
Toyonishikami, Nagato.
Dark reddish-brown, with the lunella decidedly fa^ero-ventral, and the px-incipal plica shorter; lip with numerous folds.
Alt.
23.5, diara.
5.Q mm., whorls 9i.
Senzan, Awaji.
Like Kobe' shells, but sometimes smaller.
Alt.
20, diam.
5 mm., whorls 8; alt.
17, diam.
4.5 mm., whorls 7^.
Okinoshima, Tosa.
Specimens like those from Kobr, but the lip is sometimes appresse(l,,i]ot free above, aud the superior lamella scarcely marginal.
Plication of the subcolumellar region variable.
Ushirogawa, Tosa.
Slightly smaller than Kobe shells and, like the preceding lot, more opaque, the lunella not visible from the outside.
One specimen, sent at a different time from this locality (PI.
XXXVI, fig.
22), retains the apex perfect, is reddish-brown, slightly translucent, and has a much shorter principal plica, extending but a short distance beyond the lunella.
There are 18 whorls, the earlier ones translucent-white.
Length 25.5, diara.
5.9 mm.
Fukuregi, Higo, Kiushiu.
Rather small, with few or many subcolumellar plications.
Alt.
19, diam.
5 mm., whorls 9.
Yatsushiro, Higo.
Larger than the preceding; peristome often somewhat more solute than in Kobe shells, and the mouth a little narrower.
Alt.
2.4, diam, 5 mm., whorls 10^; alt.
21, diam.
5 mm., whorls 8^.
Clausilia plicilabris var.
ptycholsema Boettger.
'* Shell larger, more distinctly striate, the last whorl more strongly rib-striate.
Aperture longer, the peristome less calloused andreflexed.
Length (decollate) 20^27^, diam.
5^-6£ ram."
" Seluchi, between Hiuga and Bugo " (Rein).
Clausilia Oscariana Pilsbry.
PI.
XXXVI, figs.
30, 31. rilsbry,iu these ProceediiKjs for 1901, Vol.
LIU, p. 409 (Octol)er 2, 1901).
Shell rimate, fusiform, rather acutely attenuated above, the early whorls retained in adults; dingy brown; finely striate.
Whorls 10^ to 11^, slightly convex, the last perceptibly constricted behind the lip.
Aperture ovate-piriforra, the sinulus a little retracted; peristome very shortly free above, not emarginate at the position of the superior lamella, reflexed and thickened, crossed by several folds {sometimes subobsolete) in the vicinity of the subcolumellar lamella.
Superior lamella marginal, rather low, slightly oblique, widely separated from the spiral lamella, the latter reaching a ventral position within.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding, scarcely visible from the mouth, extending inward nearly as far as the spiral lamella.
Subcoluinellar lamella emergin>j to the liji-edge, several folds usually grouped around it.
Priucipal plica strong, reachiug from the dorsal to the ventral side.
Lunella lateral, strong, slightly curving inward above, united below to the lower palatal fold near its inner end.
Length 14.7, diam.
3.5 mm.
Length 12, diam.
3 ram.
Fukuregi, Province Higo, Kiushiu.
Types No.
81,930 Coll.
A. N. S. P., from No.
674 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Related to G. bilabrata Smith, but only about half as large, with fewer whorls, not subject to truncation, and more attenuated above.
The lunella is more lateral.
In C. suriigensis the spire is much less slender.
Named in honor of Dr. Oscar Boettger.
Clausilia surugensis n. sp.
PI.
XXXVI, figs.
25, 26, 27.
Shell rimate, obese below, attenuated above, whitish under a pale brownish-yellow cuticle, which is mainly eroded from the specimens examined; finely striate.
Whorls 10, the first rather large, next three or four scarcely increasing in diameter, the last two or three whorls quite swollen.
Aperture piriform with rather distinct sinulus, peristome narrowly refiexed and thickened, varying from nearly smooth to densely j^licate along the columellar margin ; notched to the left of the superior lamella.
Superior lamella rather small, a more or less distinct groove on each side of it, and a very small fold or lamella close to it on the left; not continuous with the spiral lamella, the latter continued inward past the ventral side.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding, strongly spiral within, continuing inward as far as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Principal plica a half whorl long, extending from a dorsal to a ventral position.
The lunella is subventral, curves inward above, and is weakly united with, or slightly separated from, the middle of a i-ather long, oblique, lower palatal plica.
Length 15, diam.
3.7 mm.
Length 14.3, diam.
3.8 mm.
Clausilium (PI.
XXXVI, figs.
28, 29) oblique and somewha thickened at the apex, a little excised or emarginate on the columellar side of the filament.
Mikuriya, Suruga.
Types No.
81,902 Coll.
A. N. S. P., from Mr. Hirase's No.
688.
This species is much smaller than C. bilabrata, which is not known from so far north or northeast.
It is more attenuated above, and the peristome is notched on the left side of the terra iaiation or the superior lamella.
Group of C taiief/ashimce.
Solid and strong Tyrannophcediisw with the clausilium oblique and thickened distally, the superior lamella separated from the spiral lamella, which penetrates past the ventral side, accompanied by the inferior lamella; lunella subventral; subcolumellar lamella strongly emerging.
There is a strong ridge or crest behind the outer lip, parallel with it.
Similar to the group of C. bilabnda in internal structure, but differing in the crest behind the lij).
Species are known from the northeastern grou{) of Riukiu Islands, and from southern Kiushiu.
Species two: C. oxycyma, with a distinct upper palatal plica developed, length 14 mm., and C. tanegashinuc, which has the upper palatal plica represented only by an inward bend of the upper end of the lunella, length 16-18^ mir.
Clausilia oxycyma n. sp.
P).
XXXVII, ligs.
35, 36, :',7, M^.
Shell rim ate, fusiform, rather slender, attenuated above, glossy, rather dark red-brown when unworn ; finely striate, a little more coarsely so pn the last whorl.
Whorls 9!^ to nearly 11, moderately convex, the last three whorls of almost equal diameter, last whorl compressed laterally, tapering, rising into a strong, rather acute ridge or crest a short distance behind the lip and parallel with it.
Aperture piriform, slightly oblique, brown within; peristome narrowly reflexed, continuous, white, scarcely emarginate at the position of the superior lamella.
Superior lamella small, marginal, slightly oblique, not continuous u^ifh the spiral lamella.
Spiral lamella very high within, of equal length with the inferior lamella, both continuing past a ventral position.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding, twisted within.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, bounded by grooves.
Principal plica strong, reaching from the dorsal to the ventral side.
Lunella latereventral, oblique, joining the middle of strong, rather long, oblique, upper and lower palatal plicse.
Length 14, diam.
3 to 3^ mm.
Clausilium (PI.
XXXVII, figs.
41, 42) moderately curved, the iyOl.]
NAirUAL S( IKXCKS OF I'HILADELl'IIIA.
035 <listal end very oblique and thickened ou the columellar side, the proximal end emarginate on the columellar side of the filament.
The middle of the palatal margin project r*.
Kagoshima, Satsuma, in southern Kiushiu.
Types No.
81,925 Coll.
A. N. S. v., from Mr. Y. Hirase's No.
695.
Similar to C. tanec/ashiina' and C. ptychocyma in the strong crest behind the outer lip, but different from both in palatal armature.
No other Japanese species has any similar structure of the last whorl.
Clausilia lanegashimae Pilsbry.
I'l.
XXXVII, figs.
:'.■_>, 33.
3i.
Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, Vol.
LIII, p. 500 (October 2).
Shell fusiform, rather acutely tapering above, very solid, somewhat glossy, brown, very weakly striate except the last whorl.
"Whorls about lOi, moderately convex, the last having a strong, acute ridge or crest a short distance behind the outer and basal lips.
Aperture ovatepiriform, the sinulus a trifle retracted ; peristome reflexed, somewhat thickened, very shortly free or almost adnate above.
Superior lamella small, vertical, marginal, widely .separated from the spiral lamella, the latter extending inward past the ventral side.
Inferior lamella emerging in a slender cord parallel to the subcolumellar lamella, otherwise very deeply receding, within very strong and obliquely ascending, penetrating as far as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lipedge, bounded by grooves.
Principal plica about a half-whorl long, extending from a dorsal position (visible within the throat) to just past the lunella.
Lunella w'ell developed, subveutral, somewhat curved inward above, connected below with the inner end of a long oblique lower palatal plica.
Length 18.5, diam.
4.2 nun.
Length 16, diam.
4 mm.
Length 16.2, diam.
o.T mm.
The clausilium (PI.
XXXVII, %s.
89, 40) is similar to that of C. bllabrata, being oblique and thickened at the apex, and excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Tane-ga-shima, ( )sumi.
Northeastern Group of the Riukiu Islands.
Types No.
81,933 Coll.
A. N. S. P., from No.
662 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also occurs on Yakushima, No.
0626 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a much larger species than C. ptycJiociiina, with emerging subcoluraellar lamella aud sharper, higher crest behind the outer lip.
C. oxyeyma scarcely differs from fanega-'thimre externally except in its smaller size, but it has a well developed upper palatal plica, which is represented in tanegashimce by only a short inward bend of the lunella.
The palatal marfiin of the clausilium is straight in C. tanegashinue.
Specimens from Yaku-shima agree with those of Taue-ga-shima in solidity and size.
The lunella is losv above and its inward bend above, though low, is rather pliciform.
I did not receive these specimens until recently, or I would have named the species differently, since it proves to extend beyond Tane-ga-shima.
Group of C. mikado.
This group is well developed in the provinces about the upper (eastern) end of tne Inland Sea.
Probably C. plicilahrls A.
Ad., described from Tanabe, Kii, will prove to belong here, near C. aurantiaca and the following species.
I formerly thought it might be identical with C. bilabrata Smith.
Clausilia orthatracta n. sp.
PL XXXVII, figs.
44, 45, 46.
Shell rimate, slenderly aud straightly fusiform, rather solid, of a pale brown tint.
Surface lusterless, finely striate, the stride perceptibly coarser, though still fine and close, on the latter part of the last whorl.
The upper whorls are almost smooth from wear in the specimens seen.
Spire nearly straight-sided, attenuated and nearly cylindric above, the apex rather large.
Whorls 12, the earlier convex, the later ones Hatteued, last whorl compressed laterally, noticeably constricted behind the lip, especially near and at the base; and there is generally a stronger riblet where the expansion of the lip begins (fig.
45).
Aperture obli(|ue, retracted at the base and sinulus, piriform and small.
The peristome is continuous and stands forward free from the preceding whorl; is white, thickened, expanded and reflexed, weakly emarginate at the position of the superior lamella or not noticeably so.
Superior lamella marginal, oblique, continuous with tlie spiral lamella, which is low at first, but rises high in the region of the closing apparatus, and penetrates inward past the aperture to a lateral position on the left side.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply, though the lower end continues to the lip-edge.
It is straightened within, and peneI rates nearly or quite as deeply as the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lip-edge, is bounded by grooves, and there is sometimes some weak crenation of the lip below it.
The principal plica approaches the lip, and is about one whorl long.
The narrow, straight lunella stands in a ventro-lateral position, and is connected above and below with short but higher upper and lower palatal plicse (fig.
46).
Length 16, diam.
nearly 3, length of aperture 3 mm.
Length 15, diam.
3, length of aperture 3.2 mm.
The clausilium (fig.
43) resembles that of C. oxycyma ; the palatal edge being a little swollen in the middle.
The distal end is oblifjue and strongly thickened, as usual.
Akasaka, Province Mino, Japan.
Type?
No.
82,273 Coll.
A. N. S. P., from No.
748 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This TyvannoplKedusa stands between C. aurantiaea Bttg.
and C. iotapty.c Pils.
It is more slender than either, and differs from them in the shape of the spire and the relatively smaller aperture.
Compared wilh C. mirantiaca var.
Iiypoptychia Pils., the present species is seen to differ in the straigliter lateral outlines and larger apex.
Section .STEKEOPH.EDUSA Bttg.
This section comprises four groups of species: The group of C. valida, restricted to the middle Riukiu Islands;^ the group of C. japonica, known from Nippon and Shikoku; the group of C. brevior, now known from Nippon, Kiushiu and the Riukiu Islands, and the gi'oup of C. eutospira, containing a single species from Tane-ga-shima.
The group of C. japonica includes the following large species: 1.
C. japonica Crosse.
Synonyms of the typical form are C kobensis Smith and C. nipponensis Kobelt.
There cannot be much doubt that C. eurystoma v. Mart, is a pathologic individual of the same.
A var.
pallens has been distinguished by von Mollendorff, and I have defined var.
interplicata.
There remain several other more or less well-marked races, which it seems to me inadvisable to name until their distribution can be more fully studied.
In Idzurao Province a large, dark race occurs, which ' These Proceedinys for 1901, Vol.
LTII, p. 410. agrees with C. Hilgemlorfi v. Mart, iu everythiuir except the sutural plica which is said to characterize that species.
2.
C Hllgendorfi V. Mart.
Probably a subspecies of C. ./o/jom'm.
3.
C. oostoma v. Moll.
I have considered my C. japoniea var.
surugce to be this species.
The latter has a synoriyin, C. eurystoma subsp.
brac/u/ptychla Mlldff.
4.
C. subjaponica Pils.
The group of C. hrevior consists of smaller species, of which the first two, from the middle part of Nippon, have no lunella, while in C. Stearnsii, Addlsoni, Jacobiamc and hondana a lunella is developed, at least in some individuals.
5.
C. brevior v. Mart.
Includes C tetrajAiix Mlldff.
6.
C nikkoensis Mlldff.
7.
C. hondana Pils.
8.
C. Stearnsii Pils.
9.
C. Jaeobiana Pils.
10.
C. Addisoni Pils.
11.
C. stereoma Pils.
with varieties nar/ax and cocjnata.
I have elsewhere described and figured C hondana and C. Stearnsii.
C. nikkoensis I have not yet seen.
The other species of the brevior group are described below.
In the typical Stereophcedusce there are either several palatal plicre, or only the upper and low'er.
In C. hondana, Addisoni, Stearnsii, Jaeobiana and stereoma a low, straight lunella stands between the upper and lower plicie.
This lunella, in fully adult individuals, is a smooth ridge, without higher points or irregularities; but in some individuals, viewed from the outside, a row of short light markings is seen, as though a series of palatal plicw stood in place of the lunella.
When this is not obvious from the outside, it appears Avhen the shell-wall and lunella are viewed by transmitted light.
This indicates local differences in the substance of the shell, affecting its refracting qualities; and it occurred to me that a row of plicre is firsi; formed, and subsequently the spaces between them are filled in.
Upon examining specimens of C. Jaeobiana not quite mature, in which the peristome was not fully formed, I found that this was what actually takes place.
Such shells have no lunella whatever, but in its place a series of four or five short plicie (Pi.
XXXIX, fig.
68).
These facts indicate that the ancestral Strreophcedus(K had a palatal armature of short palatal plicte, precisely similar to the structure still extant in certain other groups, Megalophadimt for instance.
This became modified in two modes: (1) The intermediate plicte degenerated, resulting in such forms as typical C. japonica, in which only the upper and lower plicfe remain, or (2) the intermediate plicte coalesced to form a lunella.
That the loss of an even series of plicte has been a very recent one in Steveophmdasa is indicated by several facts.
In species which normally have but two palatal plicre so'metimes individuals or races occur in which small intermediate plicie are developed ;^ and in species with a lunella, the earlier structure of a row of plicte is perfectly developed in the stage of growth immediately preceding the adult stage.
Incidentally I may observe that the ])erplexiug structural variation I formerly recorded in describing C. hondana is at least partially explained by what I find to occur in the Stereophcedusce of Kiushiu and Tane-ga-shima.
I was dealing with a small series of shells, part of which were not absolutely mature.
Clausilia brevior v. Martens.
PI.
XXXVIII, tigs.
47, 4s, 49, 50, ^A.
Vou 3Iarten.s.
Sitzungsberichfce der Ges.
Natnrforsch.
Freuiule in Berlin, 1877, p. 109.
Kobelt, Fauna Moll.
Extramar.
Jap., p. 78, PI.
9, fig.
4 (bad).
C. tetrnptyx v. Mollendorff, Journ.
Asiatic Soc.
Beng., LI, p. 7, PI, 1, fig.
7 (188:2); 1885, p. 61.
This species is not recognizably figured in Kobelt' s work.
For the purpose of more exact comparison with C. Addlsoni, a fuller account of the species than has been published is given below.
The shell is thin, obesely fusiform, much afieniuded and concave-sided near the apex, the last three whorls inflated, the last half of the last whorl more or less compressed, often conspicuously narrower than the preceding whorl, as in the " nipponejisis ^ ' form of C. japonica.
Pale yellowish brown; sharply, very obliquely striate or rib-striate.
Whorls about 9i, the apex minute, but the following whorl disproportionately large; next few whorls very slowly increasing.
Aperture squarish-ovate, the peristome expanded, somewhat reflexed, thickened and w^hite, hardly free above, the upper margin parallel to Ihe sutures.
Superior lamella thin and high, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella which ''The evidence of this will be presented in a future paper dealing with the C. japonica group of Stereophcedusa.
penetrates to or past the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella approaching the superior, forming a strong, subhorizontal fold; inside it ascends with a broad spiral trend, and j)enetrate3 nearly or quite as far as the superior lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lip-edge.
The principal plica is visible <leep in the throat and ascends to a latero-ventral position.
Palatal plicae three or four, the first and fourth long, oblique ; the second shorter; third very small or wanting, leaving a space.
Length 14 to 17, diam.
4 mm.
(Von Martens' type).
Length 17.2, diam.
4.3 mm.
; length 14, diam.
4 mm.
; length 13.4, diam.
3.5 mm.
; specimens from Tokyo.
Length 14.
5, diam.
4.1 mm.
; length 12, diam.
3.5 mm.
; specimens from Nikko.
Length 17, diam.
3.7 to 4 mm.
; specimen from Numazu, Suruga.
Clausilium (PI.
XXXVIII, figs.
52, 53) short and wide, broadest below, strongly arcuate, a little tapering and thickened at the apex, somewhat excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Misaki, Sagami, at the mouth of the Bay of Tokyo (Hilgendorf, type locality); Ashima, Izu (Hirase); Yokohama (B. Schmacker); Tokyo (F. Stearns); Nikko, Shimotsuke (Loomis); Fujisawa (Hungerford, type locality of C. tetraptyx): Isumazu, Suruga (Hirase).
The small size for a Stereophcedusa, strongly attenuated early whorls, and thin shell are the more prominent differences between ('.
hrevlor and other species of the group.
The area of distribution so far indicated is a rather restricted district in middle Nippon.
Mr. Hirase's fruitful researches in the southwestern half of Nippon and in Shikoku have not revealed the species there; uor has it yet appeared from as far north as the Province Uzen, whence a considerable number of small species have been sent.
It seems to be a very abundant shell in the region about Tokyo Bay.
The variety tetraptyx Mlldff.
is a little darker brown, the peristome brown-tinted, at least in part, the palatal plicie slightly longer than in typical brevior ; but in the lot of some hundreds of specimens I have seen, these characters, except as to the tint of the lip, vary by insensible degrees, so that I do not see that tetraptyx has a valid claim to varietal distinction.
One of the original specimens of tetraptyx, collected by Hungerford, is before me, kindly lent from the collection of Mr. E, R. Sykes.
Clausilia Addisoni Pilsbry.
PI.
XXXVIII, iigs.
5G, 57.
C. brevior var.
Addisoni Pils., these Proceedings for 1900, p. G77 (January 28, 1901).
C. Addisoni Fils., t. c, p. 502, under C stereoma.
Shell obesely fusiform, much attenuated and with concave outlines above, inflated below, the last whorl narrower and tapering.
Light brown or corneous.
Rather strongly and coarsely striate, more coarsely so on the last half whorl.
Aperture squarish-ovate, the lip reflexed, somewhat thickened, white.
Lamelhe about as in C. hrevior.
The subcolumellar lamella barely emerges or is continued to the lip-edge.
The three palatal plicre are slightly shorter than in C. hrevior, and there is a very low, subobsolete, straight lunella, or at least a low callous deposit between the second and the lowest plic?e, and connected with the latter.
Length 18, diam.
4.2 to 4.7 mm., whorls 9^.
Length 16, diam.
4.5 mm., whorls 9.
Ari-mura, a village on the southern side of Sakura Island, in Kagoshima Bay (Addison Gulick) ; Kagoshima and Kajima, Satsuma (Mr. Hirase); Isshochi, Higo (Hirase); all in southern Kiushiu.
This form is very much like ('.
brevior, of which I at first considered it a variety.
It is slightly stronger, larger than any but the largest specimens of brevior, and difiers in having a callous pad or rudimentary lunella above the lower palatal fold, and in the decidedly coarser striation.
The clausilium is thicker at the apex, and the palatal side is more convex (figs.
54, 55).
Geographically it is very widely separated from all parts of the range of C. brevior; and as Mr. Hirase has not found either species at any of the multitude of intermediate localities explored by him or his collectors, it seems unlikely that there are any connecting forms in the intermediate territory — the southwestern half of Nippon and northern Kiushiu.
It is named in compliment to Mr. Addison Gulick, formerly of Osaka.
Clausilia Jacobiana r\.
sp.
PI.
XXXIII, figs.
58-r.-> ; PI.
XXXIX, figs.
66-09.
Shell thin, brown, rimate, fusiform, the upper half rapidly tapering, several earlier whorls attenuated, the penultimate whorl 41 swolleu, latter half of the last whorl compressed.
Surface glossy, sculptured with strong, threadlike oblique strite, 3 or 4 earlier whorls smooth, usually worn or eroded.
Whorls 9 to 0^, quite convex, and separated by deeply impressed sutures.
• Aperture slighlly oblique, ovate-piriform, the peristome very shortly free above, expanded and reflexed, whitish, slightly emarginate at the position of the superior lamella, the sinulus a little retracted.
Superior lamella slender, vertical, continuous with the spiral lamella, which extends iuward to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella forming a rather small but subhorizontal fold, not reaching out upon the hp, extending inward as far as the superior lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella varying from barely immersed to rather weakly emerging.
Principal plica a half-whorl long, extending from a dorsal position (visible deep in the throat) to a latero-ventral position.
Upper and lower palatal plicae rather short, lateral.
Below the upper palatal plica there is a delicate second plica, from the outer end of which a low straight lunella runs to the lower palatal plica.
Length 15.5, diam.
3.6 mm.
; length 13.6, diam.
3.5 mm.
The clausilium (PI.
XXXIII, figs.
61, 62) has the general shape and curvature of that of T*.
hrevior and Addisoni, but differs fr(jm both in having the apex more pointed, and it is more concave on the ])alatal side of the apex.
The end is also more thickened than in ('.
brevior.
Tane-ga-shima, Osumi.
Types No.
82,277 Coll.
A. X. S. P., from No.
754 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Yaku-shima, No.
778 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is related to (J. Stearnsli Pils.
of Okinawa and ( '.
Addisoni Pils.
of southern Kiushiu.
It is much more slender than the latter, with more convex whorls and a more pointed clausilium.
(.
Stearnsii is a longer species, in which the early whorls are not so attenuated.
These three species have a low and more or less welldeveloped lunella when adult, a structure occurring also in some specimens of C hondana, but otherwise unknown in the StcreopJuedasi^e of Nippon.
In immature shells a row of short palatal plicae stands in place of the lunella (fig.
68).
This Claimlia has the thin shell of the other species of the brevior group, while all other ClauiiUtc known from Tanc-gashima are extremely thick and strong.
It is named in honor of Dr. Arnold Jacobi, author of excellent papers upon the soft anatomy of Japanese snails, the fauual relationships of Japan, etc.
The specimens from Yaku-shima are more solid than those from Tane-ga-ghima, and the palatal armature seems to be less developed, the lunella being less distinct or absent.
There are three palatal plicse below the principal plica, the first, second and lowest.
The sculpture and shape are not noticeably different, the largest and smallest sent raeasuriag: Length 13.8, diam.
3.3 mm.
Length 11.3, diam.
3 mm.
Clausilia stereoma Pilsbry.
PI.
XXXIX, (igs.
70, 71.
Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, Vol.
LIII, p. 502, with varieties nugax and cognata (October 2, 19Ul).
Shell rimate, obeselij fusiform, the spire tapering rapidly, its tipper fourth venj slender; thick and e.vtre)nely strong ; olive yellow, glossy; the spire distinctly striate, last two whorls smoother except near the suture.
Whorls about 8^, convex, the penultimate whorl swollen, latter half of the last whorl compressed, tapering.
Aperture ovate, vertical, flesh-tinted w^thiu; peristome white, reflexed and thickened within, continuous, though almost in contact with the preceding whorl above.
Superior lamella rather slender, oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella strong, subhorizontal, approaching the superior lamella, strongly spiral within, both spiral and inferior lamellic penetrating to the middle of the ventral side, Subcolumellar lamella emerging but not extending to the lip-edge.
Principal plica very short, lateral; palatal plicae four, the upper one long, converging inwardly toward the principal plica, the lower plica shorter, strong, a little curved; two intermediate plicw minute, punctiform, hardly perceptible.
Length 2H, diam.
G mm.
Length 19i, diam.
5^ mm.
Clausilium very short and broad, acuminate and thickened distally, very strongly arcuate (PI.
XXXIX, figs.
03-65).
Yaku-shima, Osumi, in the Northeastern Group of the Piukiu Llan>ls.
Types No.
81,737 Coll.
A. N. S. P., from Xo.
(hO of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This fine species is the most solid and strong Stereophcedma kuown.
The obese lower whorls and strongly attenuated spire show relationship to C. Adduoni Pils.
of Kiushiu, and (\ hrevior V. Mart, of middle Nippon — both com])aratively thin shells.
The two intermediate palatal plieie are likely to prove inconstant.
Clausilia stereoma var.
nugax rilsbry.
PL XXXIX, figs.
78, 79.
]\Iuch smaller and more slender than the type, which it resembles in color and sculpture.
Very solid.
Length 13^ to 14^, diam.
4 mm.
Length 16^, diara.
4\ mm.
Also from Yaku-shima, probably from a different locality.
Types No.
81,576 Coll.
A. N. S.' P., from No.
671 of Mr. Hi rase' s collection.
Clausilia stereoma var.
cognata Pilsbry.
Rich reddish-brown, thinner than the types, though still very strong, with about 9 whorls.
Palatal plicre four or five, the intermediate ones very small.
Length 23|^, diam.
6^ mm.
Length 22, diam.
6^ mm.
Length 21|, diam.
6^^^ mm.
Tane-ga-shima.
Types No.
81,578 Coll.
A. N. S. P., from No.
661 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
As in the type, the palatal plicie are often visible through the shell, and from the outside appear longer and more prominent than they are found to be on opening the shell. '
' " ''/[ Group of C. entospira.
Shell thick, small, the inferior lamella thick and squarish below (not forming a spiral fold on the columella, as in other Stereo2}hiedime), very strongly spiral within; a stout, lunate lunella developed, but no palatal plica) except the principal one.
Clausilium very strongly arcuate, slowly and much tapering below to the subacute, thickened apex, wide above, deeply eraargiuate on the columellar side of the filament.
The single species known of this very distinct group has obviously arisen from the Stereopha^dusan stock; but it is more specialized than any other known member of Stereopluedusa, both in palatal armature and clatisilium.
1901.]
>^\TURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPiriA.
645 Clausilia entospira Pilsbry.
ri.
XXXIX, figs.
72-75.
Pilsbry, tlieso Proceedings, Vol.
LIII, p. 501 (October 2, 1901).
Shell rathei" obosely fusiforin, attenuated, with somewhat concave outlines above, extremely thick and strong, nearly .smooth, glossy, the latter half of the last whorl becoming coarsely striate; fleshcolored with buff patches and streaks, eroded in spols.
Whorls about 8^, convex, the last tapering below.
Aperture long-ovate, the peristome slightly reflexed, very much thickened within, shortly free above.
Superior lamella small but rather stout, marginal, very widely separated from the spiral lamella, which is quite small, short and latero-ventral.
Inferior lamella receding, in oblique view (fig.
72) appearing very prominent and squarish; very dronrjhj spiral xvltlun, heavily thickened at the lower end, ascending merely to a lateral position.
Subcolumellar lamella immersed, interrupted within.
Principal plica slender, short and low, lateral.
Lunella latero-ventral, oblique, curved, running inward below, tapering at the ends, exces-nvehj thick and strong in the middle.
No palatal plicise Length scarcely 10, diam.
2.4 mm.
Clausilium (PI.
XXXIX, figs.
76, 77) moderately long, but being strongly curved near the middle, nearly at a right angle, it appears short; distal half rapidly tapering, straight along the palatal, convex at the columellar side, thickened at the apex.
Proximal half rather wide and parallel-sided; deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Tane-ga-shima, Osumi, one of the Xortlieasteru Group of the Riukiu Islands.
Types Xo.
82,558 Coll.
A. X. S. P., from Xo.
663a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A few examples were with the specimens of ('.
Pinto.
Mr. Hirase remarks that it is very rare.
It is an excessively peculiar species, and I was formerly at a loss as to its affinities.
The broadly spiral trend of the inferior lamella, which is moreover very short within, the weak, short spiral lamella and principal plica and the peculiar lunella are a cirabination of features unlike any Oriental species known to me.
The squarish lower end of the infei'ior lamella is sometimes visible in a front view (fig.
74), but in other specimens it recede-9, and is seen, only in oblique view (figs.
72, 73).
The clausilium is quite unlike that of any other known Japanese species.
The lunella might almost as well be considered a greatly developed lowei' palatal plica, as it is no doubt iu part homologous Avith that.
The shell is excessively solid aud thick, sti'onger in fact than any other species of such diminutive stature known to me; but unusual solidity is a characteristic of the Clausiliffi of Tane-ga-shima and Yaku-shima, common to the StereopJuedusa', Hemiplwdusa' and TyramioplueduHa' alike, aud clearly to be correllated with some factor in the environment acting upon the entire series.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES XXXV-XXXIX.
Plate XXXV (Hemiph^edusa).
Figs.
1-6.
— ClausiUd Mgoensis.
Types.
Figs.
7-10.
— Ctausilid ptychocyma.
Type.
Fig.
11.
— Clausilia ptychocyma vav.
YakusMince.
Type.
Figs.
12-14.
— Olaiisilia Pinto.
Type.
Fig8.
15, 16.
— Clausilia ischna.
Type.
Plate XXXVI (Tyraxnoph^edusa).
Figs.
17-21.
— ChtusiUa hilabrata.
Specimen-^ Irom Kobe, the type locality.
Fig.
22.
— Clausilia.
hilabrata.
Specimen retaining the apical whorls, from U.shirogawa, Tosa, No.
81,926 Coll.
A. N. S. P. Figs.
23, 24.
— Clausilia hilabrata .
Specimens from Takaya, in which the snrlace is corroded, covered with algse dorsallv.
No.
79,719 Coll.
A. N. S. P. Fig>.
25-29.
— Clausilia surugensis.
Types.
Figs.
SO-31.
— Clausilia Oscariana.
Types.
Plate XXXVII (Tykaxxoph.edusa).
Figs.
32-34.— Claasilia tanegasMmce.
Type.
Figs.
35-38.
— Clausilia oxycyma.
Types.
Figs.
39, 40.
— Clausilia tanegashitna.
Clausilium.
Figs.
41, 42.
— Clausilia oxycyma.
Clausilium.
Fig.
43.— Clausilia orthatracta.
Clausilium.
Figs.
44-46.
— Clausilia orthatracta.
Type.
Plate XXXVIII (Stereoph^edusa).
Figs.
47, 48.
— Clausilia brevier.
Specimen from Coll.
E. R. Sykes Figs.
49-53.
— Clausilia brevior.
Specimens from Tokyo.
No.
18,801 Coll.
A. N. S. P. Figs.
54-57.
— Clausilia Addisoni.
Types.
Figs.
53-62.
— Clausilia Jacobiana.
Tancgashima, Osumi.
Plate XXXIX (STEREOPHYf:r)USA).
Figs.
03-65.
— Clausilia stereoma.
Clausilium, Fig.
64, from the coiumellar edge.
Fig.i.
66-69.
— Clausilia Jacobiana.
Fig.
68 represents the palatal armature of an immature shell.
Figs.
70, 71.
— Clausilia stereoma.
Type.
Figs.
72.
73.
— Clausilia entospira.
Fig.
72 is an oblique view in the aperture, from below and the left side.
Figs.
71-77.
— Clausilia entospira.
Type.
Figs.
76, 77 reconstructed from a broken clausilium.
Figs.
7S, 79.
— Clausilia stereoma var.
nugax.
Type.
CATALOGUE OF THE CLAUSILIID5: OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.'
BY HENRY A. PILSBKY.
The general sequence of species in the following list is from primitive to specialized forms; but this end is only imperfectly attained, as there are several highly specialized groups terminating wholly independent phyla, making a serial arrangement quite arbitrary.
The forms with narrow clausilium and sevei'al palatal plicte in place of a lunella are the more primitive, retaining the structure of early Tertiary groups.
Meg alop heed usa and the typical Hem ij) heed usee are of this kind.
Zaptijx, Luchuphcedusa and Ti/rannojjheeelusa seem to be three independent specializations from an early Hemipha^dusan stock.
Stereophcvdusa stands a little more remote; while Pseudonenia, Eaphaxlusa and Reinia probably separated from the pro-Hemipha^dusan stock at a still earlier period.
The East Asiatic ClausiU'uhe are much more closely related to early Tertiary than to modern European groups.
The evidence indicates that, like the Belogonous Helicidte, a common stock of Clausiliida: spread over Asia and Europe, at least as early as the Eocene.
Subsequent evolution has been along independent lines in the East and the West; and just as I have demonstrated in the Helicidce, the European stock has forged ahead, while the Oriental looks backward, many a group retaining old characters.
Ninety-three well-established species of Clau-nlia are now known from Japan, more than half of them first described in this journal.
Of this number forty-four were brought to light by jVtr.
Hirase.
The localities of many others, previously uncertain, have been ascertained from specimens collected by him.
In addition to these species, thirty-five subspecies or varieties have been described.
The list of species is encumbered with eleven additional .specific names, standing for forms so inadequately described that their relationships with other species are not ascertainable from published 1 Exchisive of Formosa.
648 rPvOCEEDixGS of the academy of [Dec, (lata, though part of them can be identified specifically when specimens jVo^j the original localities come to competent hands.
Section MEGALOPH.EDUSA.
Bttg.
C. Martensi ' Herklots ' v. Mart.
(^ C. yokohaviensis Crosse and ('.
Reiniana var.
, Kob., Jahrb.
iii, PI.
5, f. 8).
Yokohama (Crosse); Hakone Mountains (Schmacker); Mikuriya, Suruga; Gojo and Kambe, Yamalo; Kobe, Setsu; Kashima, Harima.
Form TiNCTiLABRis Pils.
Nachi and Tomisato, Kii (Hirase).
Var.
Reiniana Kobelt.
Ibuki, Omi (Hirase); Aichi (U. S. Nat.
Mus.
).
C. MiTSUKURii Pils.
Tomisato, Kii.C. DDCALis Kob. "
Interior of Nippon" (Rein); Miya-mura, Hida (Hirase), Var.
DORCAS Pils.
Kiyomi-mura, Hida (Hirase).
C. VASTA Bttg.
Nagasaki (Rein, Schmacker); Seluchi (Rein); Fukuregi, Higo (Hirase).
C. FuLTONi Sykes.
Shikoku: Kinnayama, type locality; Ushirogawa, Tosa; Nametoko, lyo; Goto, Uzen (Hirase).
C. HiRASEANA Pils.
Okiuoshima, Tosa, Shikoku (Hirase).
Section HEMIPH.EDUSA Bttg.
Group of C. ralidiusenla.
C. DECUSSATA V. Mart.
Tsukuba-sau, a mountain in Hitachi Province, north of Tokyo (Hilgendorf).
A species of uncertain position in the system.
C. VALiDiuscuLA V. Mart.
Seluchi, Kiushiu (Rein).
Var.
I!ILa:\iellata Bttg. "
Seluchi, between Hiuga and Bugo" (Rein).
C. l^TERLAMELLARrs V. INIart.
Kiushiu.
C. .ETHiops Mlldff.
Near Nagasaki, Kiushiu.
C. viRiDiFLAYA Bttg.
"Interior of Japan," "Kiushiu" (Rein).
^Smaller than Martensi; somewhat Buliminus-shaped.
Whorls 9J, the upper ones not amputated.
Aperture about as in Martensi.
Length 29, (liam.
8 mm.
C. HicKoxis Bttg " Interior of Nippon " (Rein).
Var.
BixoDiFERA Bttg. "
Interior of Nippon" (Rein).
C. NoLANi Pils.
Fukura and Ikari, Awaji (Hirase).
C. GRACiLisPiRA Mlldff, Near Kobe, Setsu.
C. CARYOSTOMA MlldfF.
Kobe, Setsu.
Var.
Jayi Pilsbry.
Jo, Kii (Hirase).
C. TOSANA Pils.
Ushirohawa, Tosa, and Nametoko, lyo,^ Sliikoku Island.
C. Oracle Pils.
Nacbi, Kii (Hirase, No.
794).
Group of C. suhhuiellata.
C. suBLUNELLATA Mlldff.
Nikko Mountains (Hungerford).
C. HETEROPTFX Pilsbrv.
Toiuisato and Naehi, Kii (Hirase).
C, OPEA8 Mlldff^, Nikko Mountains (Hungerford).
C. MiCROPEAs Mlldff.
Nikko (Hungerford) ; Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase).
Var.
PERPALLiDA Pils.
Nisbigo, Uzen, Var.
HOKKAiDOENSis Pils.
Kayabe, Ojima, Hokkaido.
C. suBULiNA Mlldff.
Nikko Mountains and Lake Chusenji, Sbimotsuke.
Var.
LEUCOPEAS Pilsbry.
Ikoma and Samotonakamura, Kii (Hirase).
C. SERiciNA Mlldff.
Lake Cbusenji, Sbimotsuke and Yuniagaaisbi (Hungerford).
Var.
RiioPALiA Pilsbry.
^Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase).
Group of (J. hyperoUa.
C. iiYPEROLiA V. Mart.
Uweuo, near Yeddo (Hilgendorf, type locality).
Oshima, Izu ; Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase).
Var.
RECTALUNA Mlldff, Kamatokogiro.
Var.
APTYCniA Mlldff'.
Hakone and Cbusenji.
Var.
PLANULATA Mlldff'.
Kobe.
Group of C. mvajiensls.
C. AWAjiENSis Pils.
Fukura, Awaji.
C. HARiMEXSis Pils.
Kasbiwa, Harima; Sbirono, Buzen.
^ In tbe specimens of C. tosana from Nametoko, lyo, the intermediate palatal plicae coalesce to form a somewhat I-shaped lunella.
They are a transition form to the group of C. aulacophora.
C. PERiQNOBiLis Pils.
Okinoshinia, Tosa; Dogo, lyo.
C. KOCiiiENSis Pils.
Kochi, Tosa; ^liuamata and Yatsushiro, Higo; Togo, Satsuma.
(C. higoe^uis Pils.
is a synonym. )
C. SUBAURANTIACA Pils.
Deyai and Toyonishihami, Nagato.
C. i.sciiNA Pils.
Kochi, Tosa, Shikoku Island.
Var.
XEPTis Pils.
Kochi, Tosa.
C. iGNOBiLis Sykes.
Kinnayama, Shikoku.
C. siHKOKUEXsis Pils.
Ushirohawa, Tosa, Tairiuji, Awa, and Nametoko, lyo, Shikoku Island.
C. STRICTALUNA Bttg.
Nagasaki (Lischke).
Var.
MAJOR Bttg.
Seluclii, between Hiuga and Bugo (Rein).
Var.
XAXA :Mlldff.
Nagasaki.
Group of C. aulacopliora.
C. AULACOPHORA Pils.
Fukura, Awaji (C hrevlluna MWAH.)
.
0. riGRA Pils.
Kashima, Harima (Hirase).
Group of C. platyauchen.
C. PLATYAUCHEN V. Mart.
(C. fuscmgensis Mlldff.
).
Tsukubasan, a mountain north of Tokyo (Hilgendorf, type locality) ; Lake Chusenji (Schmacker) ; Nishigo, Uzen; Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase) ; Prov.
Suruga (F. Stearns); Prov.
Yamato (Rein).
€.
ATTRiTA Bttg.
Japan (Rein); Ibuki, Omi, and Kiyomimura, Hida (Hirase).
Var.
INFAUSTA Pils.
Nachi, Ikoma, and Jo, Prov.
Kii (Hirase).^ C. HAKONENsrs Pils.
Hakone Mountains (B. Schmacker); Oshima, Izu (Hirase).
C. scHMACKERi Sykes.
Kinnayama (Sykes) ; Kochi, Tosa (Hirase); Shikoku Island.
C. r.uscHii Kiister.
Japan (Siebold).
Position uncertain.
C. PLATYDERA V. Mart.
Kobi' (Schmacker); Prov.
Yamato, at Gose, Matsunotoge, Kambe and Nara, and Hieisan, west of Lake Biwa (A.
Gulick!).
Var.
LAMBDA Bttg.
Japan (Rein); Nohara, Yamato (Hirase).
* Somewhat smaller than altritd ; the subcohimellar lamella immersed, inferior lamella contiuned inward decidedly farther than the si^iral lamella.
Other characters substantially as in nttrita.
Var.
KIIENSI8 Pils.
Kurozu, Naclii and Tomisato, Prov.
Kii (Hirase).^ Grovp of C. ptychochi/a.
C. BERNARDii Pfr.
[Siaui ?
liiukiu Islands ?]
0.
CRENiLABiUM Pils.
Prov.
Kunclian, Okinawa (Hirase).
C. PTYCHOCHiLA Bttg.
[China ?
Kiukiu Islands ?]
C. EXCELLENS Pfr.
( ( '.
pivrc/ara Gld.
preoc.
).
Okinawa (U. S. N. P.
Exp.).
Group of C. Pinto.
C. Pinto Pils.
Tane-ga-shima, Osumi (Hirase).
C. PTYCHOCYMA Pils.
Taue-ga-sliima, Osumi (^Hirase).
Var.
YAKLTSHiM.E Pils.
Yaku-shima, Osumi (Hirase).
Group of C. munus.
C. MUNUS Pils.
Oshima, in the Piukiu Islands (Hirase).
Section ZAPTYX Pilsbiy.
C. HiRASEi Pils, Kagoshima and Sakura Island, Satsuma (Hirase).
Var.
KiKAiENSisPils.
Kikaigashinia, Osumi (Hirase, Nos, 557, 5576\ C. HYPEROPTYx Pils.
Okinawa; Yaeyama (Hirase).
C. HACHiJOENSis Pils.
Hachijo Island, Izu.
Section TYEAXNOPH.EDUSA Pilsbry.
Group of C. mikado.
C. MIKADO Pils.
(C omiemis Mlldff.
).
Ibuki, Onii, and Akasaku, Mino (Hirase).
C. lOTAPTYX Pils.
Ibuki and Ryozen," Omi (Hirase).
Var.
CLAVA Pils.
Senzan, A^yaii; Ikoma, Kii (Hii-ase).
C. ORTHATRACTA Pils.
Akasaka, Mino (Hirase).
^Smaller than platydera ; more swollen below and more attenuate aboveWhorls 8i-10.
Lenfith 16-17, diani.
4i mm.
"Specimens of C. iotapti/x irom liyozen, Omi, have 12 to 13 whorls, but otherwise are like the types from Ibuki, Omi.
The shells from Ikoma, Kii, are somewhat intermediate between iotaptyx and clava, but nearer the latter.
C. AURANTiACA Bttg.
"Interior of Nippon" (Rein); Kobe (Schmacker) ; Naclii, Kii, Ikari, Awaji, and Suimura, Awa (Hirase), Var.
HYPOPTYCHiA Pils.
Kashima, an iskind near Tanabe, Kii (Hirase).'
Var.
Eeberi Bttg.
(minor MMR.).
Nara, Nohara and Gojo, Yaraato; Chlkubushima, iuLakeBiwa; Kashiraa, Harinia; Tomisato, Aiga, and Kurozu, Kii (Hirase).
Group of ('.
bllabrata.
C. PLiciLABRis A.
Ad.
Tanabe, Kii.
(Subgeneric position doubtfuk ) C. BiLABRATA Smith.
Kobi', type locality; southern half of Nippon; Shikoku, Kiushiu and Iki Islands.
Var.
RTYCHOL.EMA Bttg. "
Seluchi, between Hinga and Bugo " (Rein).
C. OscARiANA Pils.
Fukuregi, Higo, Kiushiu (Hirase).
C. suRUGESSis Pils.
Mikuri3'a, Suruga (Hirase).
Group of C. tanegashima'.
C. OXYCYMA Pils.
Kagoshima, Satsuma, in southern Kiushiu (Hirase).
C. TANEGASHiM.E Pils.
Tane-ga-shima and Yaku-shiuia, Osumi (Hirase).
Section LUCHUPH/EDUSA Pilsbry.
C. CALLiSTOCHiLA Pils.
Prov.
Kunchan, Okinawa (Hirase).
C. MIMA Pils.
Oshima, Rinkiu Islands (Hirase).
C. NESiJTHAUMA Pils.
Oshima, Riukiu Islands (Hirase).
C. 0SHiM.EPiIs.
Nase, Oshima (Hirase).
C. PSEUDOSiiiM.E Pils.
Furuniya, Oshima (Hirase).
Section STEREOPH/EDUSA Bttg.
Group of C. valida.
C. VALIDA Pfr.
Okinawa.
Var.
FASCiATA Sykes.
Okinawa.
Var.
PERFASCIATA Pils Pro\\ Kunchan, Okinawa.
Var.
STRiATELLA Pils.
Okinawa.
'Larger than aurantiaca, with narrower, less developed lip, more whorls, and several plica in the subcolumelhir ret^ion.
Group of C. japordca.
C. JAPONICA Crosse.
Middle aud southern Nippon; AAvaji and Shikoku Islands.
(Includes ('.
kobensis Smith, type loe.
Kobe; C. nipponensis Kobelt; aud C. eury stoma v.
Mart., type loe., Tsukuba-sau, a mountain north of Yeddo, in Hitachi Province, Hilgendorf. )
Var.
FALLENS INIDdff, " Koma-kasunga."
Var.
PEROBscuRA Pils.
Shirono, Buzen (Hirase).
Var.
iNTERPLiCATA Pils.
Nishigo, Uzen; Takeya, Idzumo; Kyozen, Omi (Hirase).
C.^MiLGENDORFi V. Mart.
Prov.
Idzumo (Hilgendorf).
C OOSTOMA Mlldff.
Hakoue (?
('.
japonica var surugce Pils.
+ ('.
eurystoma subsp.
hrachyptyehia Mlldff., both from Mikuriya, Suruga; also occurs at Kashiwa, Awaji).
C. SUBJAPONICA Pils.
{= ('.
fultoni subsp.
clavula Mlldff.).
Ibuki, Omi; Tomisato, Kii (Hirase).
Group of C. hrevior.
C. BREViOR V. Mart.
(('.
tetraptyx Mlldff.).
Misaki, Sagami (Hilgendorf); Yokohama (Schmacker) ; Tokyo (Stearns); Nikko, Shimotsuke (Loomis) ; Oshima, Izu, and Goto, Uzen (Hirase).
C. NiKKOENSis Mlldff.
Near Nikko (Eastlake).
C. HONDANA Pils.
Coast of Prov.
Suruga (F. Stearns).
C. Jacobiana Pils.
Tane-ga-shima and Yakushima, Osumi (Hirase).
C. Addisoni Pils.
Provinces Satsuma and Higo, Kiushiu.
C. S EARNSii Pils.
Okinawa; Yayama (Hirase, Stearns).
C. STEREOMA Pils.
Yakushima, Osumi, south of Kiushiu.
Var.
COGNATA Pils.
Tane-ga-shima, Osumi, south of Kiushiu.
Var.
NUGAX Pils.
Yaku shima.
Group of C. eritospira.
C. EN.ospiRA Pils.
Tane-ga-shima (Hirase).
Section PSEUDONEXIA Boettger.
C. siEBOLi>i Pfr.
Kashiwashima, Tosa; Toyonishikami, Nagato; Sasebo, Hizen; Yatsushiro, Higo (Hirase).
Section EUPH^DUSA Boettger.
Group of C. jos.
C. SUB9IBBERA Bttg.
Japau.
C. EXPAXSILABRIS Bttg.
Var STKOPiio^TOMA Bttg.
laterior of Nippon (Rein).
Var.
NANA Bttg.
Interior of Nippon (Rein).
C. ONCAUCHEN Mlldfl.
Tsu-sliima (Fruhstorfer).
Group of ('.
shanghaiensis.
C. ACQLUS Bans.'
Nagasaki (Rein) ; also China.
C, DiGONOPTYX Bttg. "
Interior of Nippon " (Rein); Manabe, Hitachi; Takasaki, Kozuke; Yaraaguchi, Tajinia; Nishigo, Uzen.
C. TAU Bttg.
(C. j)roha Mlldff., 1885, not A.
Ad.).
Kyoto (Rein, Hirase); Nohara and Gojo, Yamato; Takasaki, Kozuke (Hirase) ; Tokyo ; Yokohama.
C. COMES Pils.
Kashinia, Harima (Hirase).
C. Tryoni Pils.
Hachijo Island, Izu (Hirase).
Group of ('.
Hungerfordlana.
C. HuNGERFORDiANA Mlldff.
Nara, Yamato.
C. MONELASML's Pils.
Kayabe, Ojiraa, Hokkaido.
Group of ('.
euholodoma.
C. EUHOLOsroMA Pils.
IMikuriyn, Suruga (Hirase).
C. HOLOTREMA Pils.
Nachi, Kii (Hirase).
* Section IJEINIA Kobelt.
C. VARiEGATA (A. xVd.
). "
Tago " (A.
Ad.
); Uweno, near Tokyo; Tokyo; Takasaki, Prov.
Kozuke; Hirado, Hizen.
Var.
NESioncA Pils.
Hachijo Island, Izu.
* C. holotrema resembles G. euholostoma, but is larger, purplish-brown with a yellow bslt below the sutures, the bise yellowish.
^Principal and I)alatul pliciie longer.
Whorls 8|.
xilt.
12, diam.
o.
"2 mm.
Species of unknoivn suhgeneric positio)i.
The following forms have been too imperfectly characterized to permit their reference to siibgeneric groups: C. ciNCTicoLLis Ehrmann.
Province Tosa, Shikoku.
C. CRASSiLAMELLATA Ehrmann.
Province Tosa, Shikoku.
C. GouLDii A.. Adams.
Tago.
C. IJIM.E Ehrmann.
Province Tosa, Shikoku.
C. LiRULATA A. Adams.
Mososeki.
C. XODULIFERA V. Mart.
Nippon, probably from near Yeddo (Donitz).
Based upon a single, perhaps abnormal, specimen.
C. PiNGUis A. Adams.
Kiuo-o-sima.
C. PROBA A. Adams.
Kino-o-sima.
C. SPRETA A. Adams.
Tago.
C. STENOSPIRA A. Adams.
Kino-o-sima.
C. sriMPSONi A. Adams.
Tsu-sima and Awa-sima.
APPENDIX.
The following species have been received since the preparation of the foregoing list, bringing the, number of I'ecognized species to 99, with 37 subspecies or varieties ; exclusive of 11 species of indeterminate position, enumerated above.
Section HEMIPH.EDUSA Bttg.
C.
!
?UBiGNOBiLis Pils."
Hirado, Hizen (Y. Hirase).
C. TANTILLA Pils.
'° Goto, Uzen (Y. Hirase). '
O. snbignobilis n.sp.
Rather stout, fusiform, light brown, lightly striate, compoieil of 9^ \vhorls.
Spire strongly attenuated above, the apex small.
Aperture subfrapezoidal, the lip reflexed and thickened.
Superior lamella rather small, infeiior very deeply receding, subcolumeliar emerging.
Principal plica rather short.
Lunella lateral, arcuate or bow-shaped.
Length 15, diam.
3.3 mm.
Like C. ignobilis Syke.-;, but with smaller tarly whorls.
^° 0. tantllla n.sp.
Small, brownish, fusiform, striatulate, the last whorl distinctly striate ; whorls 8, the second nither large.
Apertun* small, squarish-ovate, the lip well retiexed, somewhat thickened.
Superior lamella small, iuferior deeply receding, subcolumeliar either immersed or emerging.
Luuella oblique, united above with the middle of a short upper palatal plica.
Length 9.5, diam.
?..5 mm.
C. AULACOPOMA Pils."
Hirado, Hizen (Y. Hirase).
C.
BioENERi?)
Pils.
'Goto, Uzen (Y. Hirase).
Section TYRAXNOPH^EDUSA Pils.
C. DALLi Pils/' Tairiuji, Awa, Shikoku Island (Y. Hirase), Section STEREOPH^DUSA Bttg.
C. UNA Pils.H Goto, Uzen (Y.
Hirase.)
1' C. aulaco'poma n.sp.
Fusiform, slowly tapering above to a subacute apex, light reddish brown, -weakly striatulate, the last whorl somewhat produced forward.
Whorls 9^.
Aperture piriform, the lip well reflexed, thickened.
Superior lamella low ; inferior deeply receding ; subcolumellar emerging to the lip-edge.
Principal plica long.
Upper palatal plica short, joined in the middle to the lunella, which is curved inward below (j-like), with a nodule at its inner termination.
Clausilium somewhat spout-like disfally, but wider there than in species of the ptycltocftila group.
12 C. biyencris n.sp.
About the size and shape of C. ignobilis ; palebrownish, faintly striate.
Subcolumellar lamella immersed ; lip broadly reflexed.
Principal plica rather short, dorsal and lateral ; upper palatal plica oblique, almost joined in the middle to a long, slender lunella, the lower end of which curves far inward.
Length 14.3, diam.
3.5 mm.
^' G. Dalli n.sp.
With the general form of (J. inikado, the aperture is much as in C. iotaptyx.
Whorls 14 to 16.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges stronglj^, and sometimes the lip is puckered above it.
Lunella as in C. hilabrata.
Length 18.5, diam.
4 mm.
Thi.s excee<lingly peculiar many-whorled Clausilia belongs to the group of G. bilabrata by its palatal armature, but in contour it resembles species of the group of G. mikddo.
1* G. una, n.sp.
General contour of G. oostoma MUdlL, pale yellowishcorneous, striate.
Whorls Hi.
Entire inferlamellar margin of the lip closely and deeply plicate.
Upper palatal plica short, oblique ; lower long and arcuate, a short, rudimentary lunella rising from it.
An extraordinary fStereop/iwdusa, with' interlamellar p ication like Luchujj/nedusd callistochila.
ZYGEUPOLIA LITORALIS, A NEW HETERONEMERTEAN.
BY CAROLINE BURLING THOMPSON, PH.IX I.
Introduction.
1.
Methods.
2.
Habitat.
3.
The liviuj^ worm.
II.
A.NAT0MY.
1.
Body wall.
a. Epithelium.
b. Cutis.
c. Musculature.
2.
Nervous system.
o O.
Sense organs.
a. Cerebral organs.
b. Lateral grooves.
4.
Rhynchodfeum.
5.
Rhynchocrel and proboscis sheath, 6.
Proboscis.
7.
Blood vascular system.
8.
Excretory system.
9.
Alimentary system.
10.
Reproductive system.
11.
The caudicle.
III.
Parasites.
IV.
General Conclusions.
V. Literature List.
VI.
Explanation of Plates.
Plate; 3 XL-XLIV.
I.
Introduction.
At the end of August, 1899, four specimens of Zygeupolia litoralis were discovered by the writer at Wood's Hole, Mass.
The following summer the worms wei'e found in great abundance in the same locality, and from fifty to one hundred specimens were obtained.
The work on this paper has been mostly done in the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania, under the direction of Prof. E. G. Conklin and Asst.
Prof. T. H. Montgomery, Jr., and it is a pleasure to express my thanks to both for their interest ^ Contribution from' the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania.
42 and generous assistance.
To Dr. ISIontgomery, who has more directly supervised my work and kindly helped me in many ways, I am especially grateful.
I would also thank Dr. C. O. Whitman for the courtesies extended me at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Wood's Hole, and I am indebted to Dr. Wesley R. Coe for many kindnesses.
Methods.
— Owing to the great contractility of the Neraerteans, it is best to use some stupefying agent before fixation, otherwise the specimen becomes so twisted that it is unfavorable for sectioning.
After removing the shme sheaths with a needle, the worms were usually placed in a shallow dish of sea-water, and crystals of magnesium sulphate were slowly added.
If dropped in too quickly they will irritate the worms and fragmentation will occur.
In this solution the worms were left until they ceased to respond when touched, the time varying from one and a half to three hours, according to the amount of the sulphate.
When the worms were sufficiently relaxed the water was drawn off, and the killing fluid added; or they Avere lifted out of the water with brushes and placed in the fixative.
The fixatives used are (1) corrosive sublimate, a concentrated solution in fifty per cent, alcohol, for thirty minutes; an excellent general fixative, and one that has been extensively used in this Avork.
(2) Gilson's mercuro-nitric mixture, formula ac<;ording to Lee (1896), for about half an hour; to be highly recommended, especially for the structure of gland cells and connective tissue.
(3) Flemming's fluid (chromo-aceto-osmic acid), for twenty-four to sixty hours; especially good for nerve tissue and cilia.
(4) Flemming's fluid (stronger mixture), for forty-eight hours, followed by pyroligneous acid for twenty-four hours.
After employing this method the material may be sectioned and mounted without staining.
It is excellent for tracing nerves, and for the gross anatomy of most parts, but it is not adapted for histological or cytological details, except for cilia.
Specimens fixed in this way may afterward ^be stained with iron-hiematoxylin, but the results are not so good as when Flemming's fluid alone is used.
(5) Ninety -five per cent, alcohol ; a good fixative, except for the body epithelium.
The stains used are Ehrlich's h?ematoxyhn, undiluted, fifteen minutes to one hour, washed with alcohol containing a few drops of ammonia and followed by eosin in concentrated aqueous solution, three to five minutes.
This is the stain that has been most used, and is a very satisfactory one.
The longer time in hoematoxylin is best for nerve fibrous tissue and epithelial structures.
The Biondi-Ehrlich mixture, three hours, has been employed, but is not very satisfactory except for connective tissue.
The ironhrematoxyliu method together with Bordeaux red is an excellent stain after a Flemming fixation, and the Hermann triple stain — saffronin twenty-four hours, gentian violet six minutes, iodine three hours — has also been used.
Habitat.
— Zygeupolla was found at Wood's Hole, in a sandy beach of limited extent, bordering on a little arm of Buzzard's Bay that is sepax-ated from the main bay by the point of land known as Penzance.
Here, just in the angle made by the bay shore and Penzance, the sand has drifted in, replacing the usual stony or pebbly beach; and in this small area, which is uncovered at low tide, are found, together with many other marine worms, especially Annelids, several genera and species of Nemerteans.
Both Gerehratulm leidyi Verr.
and C. ladem Verr.
occur there, but the latter not abundantly; Mlcrura cceca Verr., Cephalothrix linearis Oers.
and Carinoma tremaphoros Thomp.
With such a rich supply of material in a spot very convenient to the INIarine Biological Laboratory, it seemed unprofitable at that time to work over any other localities, so I am unable to say anything in regard to the distribution of Zygeupolia.
Dr. Coe found this genus last summer in Quisset Harbor, about two miles farther north on Buzzard's Bay, in a very similar habitat.
When the sand, either above or below the low-water mark, is turned over, Zygeupolia may be found, usually about a foot below the surface.
The turning up of the sand frequently breaks the worm, but a number of })erfect specimens have been preserved.
The Living Worm.
— In life the worms vary considerably in length, chiefly owing to different states of contraction, so that it is difficult to say accurately what the true length is.
The same worm seems to have two normal states, beside that of actual contraction.
The first is that of comparative rest, seen in PI.
XL, figs.
5, 6, which are sketches from living worms.
In this condition, as when lying undisturbed in a dish of water, the average length is from 6-8 cm.
.
But Avhen in motion, crawling along the sides of the dish, the worm becomes greatly extended, so that the individual that in rest measured 6-8 cm.
may now be 10-12 cm.
or longer.
A change in color accompanies the elongation.
At rest the body has a decidedly pink color ; in extension the body is more transparent and dull brownish.
This may be seen by comparing the extended worm in fig.
4 with figs.
5 and 6.
As the pink color is most pronounced in the contracted condition, becomes less so at rest and disappears in extension, it is probably due to muscular contraction.
The width varies in different specimens from 1^3 mm.
; it also varies in the same specimen according to the state of contraction.
In the living worm, PJ.
XL, figs.
4, 5, 6, four different regions may be distinguished: (1) the head, (2) the anterior part of the body, (3) the posterior part of the body, and (4) the caudicle.
The head is about 6 mm.
long, not sepai'ated from the body, pure white and tapering to a very fine point.
There are no lateral slits, the ciliated pits of the cerebral organs opening directly to the exterior.
The mouth is a very small round opening on the ventral surface.
The shape and color of the head, together with the absence of lateral slits, are good criteria for determining the genus.
The anterior part of the body is the region extending from the mouth to the beginning of the lobed middle intestine.
The length is from 1^3^ cm., and the color varies from pale yellow to pinkish.
It is rounded and more or less swollen, owing to the presence there of the greater part of the proboscis.
The posterior part of the body is the most extensive.
It is somewhat flattened in life but is always rounded in preserved specimens.
The color varies from rose color to pale yellow, light brown and chocolate brown, A pinkish median line on the dorsal surface represents the rhynchoco}!
; the alternating cross lines of light and dark on each side of the median line, fig.
5, are the gonads and intestinal cseca respectively.
A series of observations were made to ascertain if there are any appreciable color variations corresponding with sexual maturity or difference of sex.
The conclusions reached are (1) that there is no difference in the color of sexually mature and immature individuals, except that the increased size of the gonads in the mature specimen causes the cross lines mentioned above to be more pronounced; (2) that the general color of the body is the same for males and females; (3) that the color of the inteslinal cieca is dependent upon the amount and character of the food contents.
The intestine in freshly taken worms is much darker in color than in specimens that have been kept in an aquarium for several days without food.
The caudicle in life appears as a slender white thread at the posterior end of the body, figs.
4, 5, 6.
It is usually much twisted and is easily broken oft".
It should be mentioned here that in none of the four specimens that were first obtained in 1899 was the caudicle preserved, so that the presence of this appendage is not mentioned in my preliminary note, Thompson (1900 a).
The wdiite spots in the posterior part of the worm, slightly exaggerated in fig.
6, are parasites and will be described under that heading.
On account of its transparency the living worm is a most favorable and interesting object for study with the low powers of the microscope.
It should first be slightly stupefied to prevent excessive movements and contractions, so that when it is placed on the slide with a few drops of sea-water and covered, the muscles relax and it lies quietly there, fully extended.
With a magnification of about 70 diameters, it is possible to study the brain lobes and commissures, the cerebral organs, the blood vessels of the head, the proboscis and rhyuchoda}um, the alimentary system and the gonads.
In only two cases could the nephridia be distinguished, but nothing was determined as to their structure.
Several attempts were made to study the worm by treatment with methylen blue, after the method of Burger (1891, p. 327, footnote), but without success.
The results obtained from the study of the organs in life will be incorporated in the several sections relating to the different organ systems.
II.
Anatomy.
Body Wall.— a.
Body Epithelium.
— The body epithelium, fig.
2, is a high one-celled layer, consisting of ciliated supporting cells, S.C, and gland cells, Gl.-i, GL^, resting upon a basement layer, B.L.
Interstitial connective tissue cells are always present in varying numbers between the bases of the epithelial elements.
The supporting cells, fig.
1-1, are about .035 mm.
in height, brotul at the free distal eiuls where the cilia are borne, and tapering proxinmlly to a slender stalk, st., which constitutes about twothirds of the length.
In fig, 15, drawn from a sublimate preparation, the stalk is somewhat shrunken and appears less than half the length of the expanded distal part; in fig.
14, a Flemming's fluid preparation, the stalks are relatively longer, and probably more as they appear in life.
The oval nucleus, N., lies in the tapering part of the cell, just above the stalk.
The chromatin forms a prominent reticulum.
The cilia, CiL, are about as long as the expanded distal part of the cell.
Each cilium is composed of several parts.
The basal knob, fig.
14, b.k., rests on the distal surface of the cell, and is connected by a fine thread with a second smaller granule, the upper knob, u.k., which bears the terminal hair of the cilium.
The cilium is continued into the cytoplasm by a line of very fine granules, fig.
14, x., which seem to reach the nucleus.
This, however, can only be seen with a very high magnification.
The gland cells are abundant in the body epithelium, and are uniformly distributed throughout the body.
Two types may be distinguished, in the first the secretion stains with eosin, fig.
2, Gl.i, in the second with hsematoxylin, fig.
2, Gl...
In both types a delicate cell membrane is present, the nucleus is small and lies at the base of the cell embedded in cytoplasm.
The relative amounts of cytoplasm and secretion depend upon the phase of the cell.
In fig.
2 the bluestaining cell on the left contains less secretion and more cytoplasm, and is therefore in an earlier phase than the blue-staining cell to the right.
In like manner, the red-staining cell on the right of the figure contains less secretion and is in an earlier stage than the red-staining cell on the left.
The red-staining secretion is homogeneous, evidently fluid or viscous ; the bluestaining secretion apparently contains flaky masses within a fluid.
The latter cells are more apt to assume the flask-like shape, the former are oftener rodshaped.
Cells are frequently found with the secretion entirely discharged from the delicate cell membrane, the nucleus remaining at the base.
The basement layer, fig.
2, B.L., separates the epithelial cells from the underlying musculature.
It is not a true basement membrane, being not the product of the bases of the epithelial cells, but a formation from the interlacing fibres of connective tissue cells.
The nuclei of the component connective tissue cells are seen with difficulty, but occur here and there embedded in the fibres.
With a low power the basement layer has a homogeneous, rather gelatinous appearance, but with higher magnification its true fibrous structure is seen.
The avei'age height of the basement layer in the head region is about .006 mm., but it is not a layer of uniform thickness, for its outer surface is thrown into a series of small elevations and depressions.
The ridges on the surface bear the stalks of the supporting cells, while the gland cells are inserted into the pits or _ depressions.
The basement layer does not stain with hsematoxylin-eosin, but takes a faint pink with the Biondi-Ehrlich stain.
An epithelial musculature of circular muscle fibres, fig.
2, Ei^.m., is present immediately beneath the basement layer.
It is especially well developed in the head region, consisting of a number of fibres like those of the body wall.
Posterior to the oesophageal region the epithelial muscle layer becomes very thin and finally disappears, but reappears at the posterior end of the body.
h. The Cutis.
— The cutis is defined by Burger (1895) as the subepithelial glandular layer, usually containing numerous nmscle fibres, which is found in the Heteronemerteans.
In Zygeupolia any distinction between the outer longitudinal muscle layer and the cutis would be merely an artificial one.
The fibres of the outer longitudinal muscle layer extend from the circular layer out to the epithelium of the body wall, and although subepithelial gland cells are present, frequently in great numbers, they are not restricted to the peripheral portion of the layer, but often extend in as far as the circular muscle.
It is thus evident that in Zygeupolia the term cutis is synonymous with outer longitudinal muscle layer.
In this respect Zygeupolia differs greatly from the genus Eupolia, in which a cutis distinct from the outer longitudinal muscle layer is present.
The finer structure of the cutis, or of the outer longitudinal muscle layer, may be seen in fig.
2.
Each longitudinal muscle fibre, L.M.j., is surrounded by a sheath of connective tissue, composed of the slender processes of the connective tissue cells which are present between the muscle fibres.
These cells are greatly branched, their nuclei, Cn.T.N., are oval, and contain a small amount of chromatin.
Slender radial muscle fibres, r.m.f., traverse the cutis, aud here aud there detached circularly running fibres, M.S., occur.
The subepithelial gland cells, or, as Burger terras them, the cutis gland cells, are present throughout the body in the outer longitudinal muscle layer.
Two, and possibly three, types of glands may be distinguished.
The first type is a multinucleate structure, fig.
2, Cu.Gl.2, staining with hematoxylin.
Such a gland is the probable result of the fusion, phylogenetically, of several simple cells.
The proximal portion resembles a bunch of grapes, each grape representing a cell with its nucleus ; the distal part is a long, slender duct, opening to the exterior between the epidermal cells.
The length of the bluestaining cells varies in different parts of the body.
In the head region, fig.
2, they are very long, extending in from the epithelium nearly to the rhynchodajum.
In the posterior part of the body, fig.
15, Cu.Gl.2, their length has diminished more than one-half.
The second type is a cell, staining red with eosin, having the shape of a very slender flask with a long neck, figs.
2, 15, CuGl.i.
Only one nucleus is present, at the basal end of the cell, and a delicate cell membrane may be distinguished.
Two quite distinct appearances have been observed in the redstaining cells.
These may be morphologically different cells, or merely phases of the one type.
In the one, figs.
2, 15, (Ju.Gl.i, the granules are very fine, close together, and stain a rose red ; in the other, fig.
15, Chi.Gl.n, the granules are large, rounded and a brighter, more metallic red.
The facts that no transition stages have been observed, and that the two varieties have a slightly different distribution, may indicate that they are morphologically different.
The distribution of the cutis gland cells is a point of some interest and, so far as I am aware, has not been worked out in any detail among the other Nemerteans.
In certain parts of th6 body the gland cells are aggregated into very prominent zones, and it seems probable that these glandular areas have some important physiological function, which is as yet undetermined, aside from the usual one of producing the slime sheath for the body.
Diagram 1 illustrates the distribution of the cutis gland cells.
1901.]
665 It is seen here that the most anterior part of the head is entirely free from cutis gland cells, but that about 0.5 mm.
behind the tip the blue-staining cells are very abundant, distributed uniformly on all surfaces of the body.
The red -staining cells occur in small numbers and ax'e mostly on the ventral surface; they are of the finely granular variety.
From the mouth back to some distance behind the nephridia the bluestaining cells are quite numerous, interspersed with the redstaining cells.
Just behind the great rhynchoccelomic expansion, where the circular muscle of the body wall is considerably thickened, comes a region that might properly be called a glandular zone, Gl.Z., owing to the enormous increase in the number of the cutis gland cells.
The whole outer longitudinal muscle layer is so crowded with them that in a cross section the muscle fibres seem nearly obliterated.
The cells increase also in size, or perhaps are more distended with secretion.
The blue-staining cells are more abundant than the red.
This zone extends backward for about 3 mm.
, then suddenly ends, just in front of the two lateral grooves, L. G. In the lateral groove region, fig.
23, Ca.Gl.,, Cu.Gl.,, the blue cells are confined to two tracts, one on eacn side of the body, above the lateral nerves.
The red-staining cells are in four tracts, dorsal LG Diagram 1.
— The head and part of the body of ZygeupoUa, illustrating the distribution of the cutis gland cells.
— The outline of the alimentary tract is given as a means of orientation.
Gl.■^, red-staining cutis gland cell ; Gl..^, blue-staining cutis gland cell ; Gl.Z., glandular zone; L.G., lateral groove; M., mouth.
and veutral to the lilue tracts.
The red -staining cells in this region and in the preceding glandular zone are of the coarse granular variety.
After the beginning of the middle intestine and its pouches, the l)lue-staining cells are no longer present, except at the most posterior end of the body.
The four tracts of red-staining cells, however, continue along the entire length of the intestine.
Owing to the increased size of the intestinal cieca and the gonads, the body wall is stretched and the muscular layers are thin, so that the red gland cells can reach down only a short distance, and are consequently short, often appearing more like epithelial cells.
At the extreme posterior end of the body both red and blue cells are present in great numbers all around the body.
The red cells are the more abundant, and are considerably larger than the blue (see fig.
15).
Both fine and coarse varieties occur.
There is no cutis in the caudicle, so that cutis gland cells are necessarily absent.
c. The Body Musculature.
— The entire region of the head in front of the brain, Plate XLI, fig, 18, from the epithelium, Ep., in to the rhynchodseum, Rd., is made up of longitudinal muscle fibres, L.M., with interlacing radial muscle fibres, r.m.J.
Except for the cerebral nerves, C.N., and the cutis gland cells, Cu.Gl.2, and probably some very fine blood lacunse, no other organs are present.
The wall of the rhynchodieum, which will be described under that heading, contains four stout bundles of longitudinal muscle, Ed.
31.
Just anterior to the attachment of the proboscis to the body wall, the inner ends of the radial fibres interlace more closely about the rhyuchodreum, until a ring of circular muscle, fig.
18, CM., is formed, which becomes the circular muscle of the proboscis sheath.
Behind the attachment of the proboscis, fig.
19, y., the outermost circular fibres separate off from the rest, thus forming the circular muscle of the body wall, fig.
19, CM., outside the proboscis sheath.
The longitudinal fibres lying between, fig.
20, i.L.M., represent the beginning of the inner longitudinal muscle.
Both dorsal and ventral brain lobes, fig.
19, D.L.
and V.L., lie outside the circular muscle, CM., in the outer longitudinal layer; but the cerebral organs, fig.
21, C Org., which are directly behind the dorsal lobes and receive their nerve supply from them, lie within the circular muscle, in the iuuer longitudinal layer.
At the posterior end of the dorsal lobes the followiug changes may be uoted.
The circular fibres, figs.
19, 20, CM., at first all ruu along the inner surface of the end of the dorsal ganglion and beginning of the cerebral organ, then a few fibres bend out and curve around the sense organ on its outer side, until finally all the muscle fibres lie ou the outside of the cerebral organ, fig.
21, CM.
The ventral ganglia lie as before, outside the circular muscle.
Just in front of the mouth a strong baud of muscle, fig.
21, H.M., runs from side to side, beneath the rhyuchocoel and above the median blood vessel.
In the oesophageal region, fig.
22, there is nothing unusual in the structure of the muscle layers; the outer longitudinal, o.L.M., is the thickest, and next the circular, CM.
This arrangement continues past the nephridia into the region of the expanded rhynchoctel, where all layers of the body wall are greatly stretched, and consequently very thin.
A short distance anterior to the middle intestine the rhynchocoelomic dilation ceases aud the diameter of the rhynchocwl is about equal to that of the oesophageal region, while its walls are frequently folded and constricted.
In this part of the body the circular muscle of the body wall becomes greatly thickened (see Plate XLIV, fig.
62, CM.).
Inner Circular Muscle.
— Fig.
23, Plate XLI, is a cross section of the body just antecior to the beginning of the middle intestine.
The diameter of the body is less than in the (esophageal region (of.
fig.
22)j and much less than in the great exjianded portion which is not figured.
The outer longitudinal muscle in fig.
23 needs no description ; the circular muscle is relatively thicker than in the anterior part of the body, but not greatly enlarged.
The circular muscle of the proboscis sheath has increased greatly in size and some of its outer fibres ruu ventrally, making a baud of circular muscle, i.CM., that encircles the stomach, S. Other fibres, apparently from the circular muscle of the body wall, join with these, running dorso-ventrally, and crossing the inner longitudinal layer dorsal ly and ventrally.
In short, an inner circular muscle layer is here present; and muscular crosses occur between it and the outer circular layer, both dorsally and ventrally (see fig.
23, D.m.cr., V.m.cr.).
A few sections posterior to the one figured in fig.
23, tl e inner circular muscle layer suddenly ends and the first pair of cfeca of the middle intestine appear.
On examining the sections anterior to fig, 23, it is found that the inner circular muscle extends forward for about 1.8 mm.
as a very thin layer of a few fibres (see Plate XLII, fig.
30, i.C.M.
), the thickened region, as in fig.
23, only extending over a few sections.
At its beginning the inner circular muscle, as seen in cross sections, measures about .006 mm.
dorso-ventrally; over the greater part of its extent the measurements range from .012— .017 mm.
; then suddenly increase from .023 to .06 in about five sections of 6/x each; finally just before the end, fig.
23, the layer is .087 mm.
thick.
The inner circular muscle encloses a band of longitudinal muscle fibres on the dorsal side of the stomach, below the rhynchocoel, Plate XLII, figs.
23, 30, i.L.M.
The fibres of the inner circular muscle layer are direct continuations of fibres from the circular layer of the proboscis sheath.
Furthermore, in the anterior part of the layer, the fibres come from the inner surface of the proboscis sheath, bend out, ci'oss the outer fibres and then continue down around the stomach.
This bending out and crossing is shown in fig.
30, z.
In a more posterior position, the inner circular layer becomes thicker and consists of fibres from the outermost part of the proboscis sheath, together with fibres from ihe circular muscle of the body wall.
It is thus seen that the partial origin of the inner circular muscle layer of Zyge^ipoUa from the proboscis sheath circular muscle is beyond a doubt.
An inner circular muscle layer has not been heretofore described, as such, for any Heteronemertean.
I have found a very similar layer in Micrnra cteca, with a considerable thickening at the posterior end, but this has not Ijcen mentioned in any published work, so far as I am aware.
Coe (1901) describes in Micrnra alaskensis a structure that might properly be called an inner circular muscle layer.
He says, p. 72: " The delicate layer of circular and longitudinal muscular fibers which surrounds the epithelial lining of the esophagus in most of the Heteronemerteans becomes remarkably developed in this species.
At the very posterior end of the esophagus — just anterior to the first intestinal pouches — the circular muscles of the esophagus increase so greatly in number that they form a most conspicuous layer.
In the region of its maximum development this layer becomes nearly half as thick as the circular layer of the body walls in the same section.
In no other species of the Lineidse has this muscle been found of even approximately this thickness.
Its fibers connect in part with the circular layer of the body walls and to a lesser degree with the circular muscles of the proboscis sheath.
But few fibers lie on the dorsal wall of the esophagus, so that this organ is largely bound up with the proboscis sheath in a continuous layer of muscles, and one cannot fail to see the striking resemblance between this circular layer and the inner circular muscles that are so highly developed in precisely the same region in Carmoma."
Since, as Dr. Coe says, the I'esemblance between this muscular layer and the inner circular layer of Cariiioma is so striking, why should we not regard them as one and the same structure, that is, as homologous ?
In what particulars do they differ ?
Biirger (1895), p. 234, gives the following definition for the inner circular muscle layer of the Protonemerteans and Carinoma.
*' Die Leibesmusculatur.
Zu dieser recline ich einen aus Riugfibrillen zusammengesetzten Muskelschlauch, welcher bei den Protone.
mertinen, vor allem bei Cariaina grata, und Carinella polymorpha, superha und linearis, und unter den Mesonemertinen bei Carinoma armandi um Vorderdarm und Rhynchocolom entwickelt ist, diese beiden Hohlcylinder einschliessend.
Diesen Muskelschlauch nenne ich die inuere Ringmuskelschicht."
Biirger also states that the fibres of the inner circular muscle differ in no way from those of the body wall.
Biirger further speaks, p. 235, of the crossing of fibres that frequently occurs in the dorsal and ventral median line of the body, between the inner circular and the outer circular layer of the body wall. "
Eine sehr merkwiirdige Erscheinung wird dadurch hervorgerufen, dass die innere Kingmuskelschicht in Beziehung zur iiusseren Ringmuskelschicht, also der Ringmuskelschicht des Hautmuskelschlauchs tritt.
Das geschieht, indem dorsal und ventral in der Medianebene des Thierkorpers von links und rechts Muskelfasern aus dem Verbande beider Ringmuskelschichten heraustreteu, und, die Liingsmuskelschicht des Hautrauskelschlauchs durchdringend, die von der eiueu Ringmuskelschicht kommendeu iiber Kreuz an die andere hinantreten."
The definition, then, of the inner circular muscle is a layer of circular muscle fibres that encloses the rhynchocoel and anterior intestine, the individual fibres being just like those of the body wall.
Since there is a common agreement Avith Burger's definition among the three muscle layers under discussion, namely, that in Mlerura alaskensis, that in Zijrjeupolia, fig.
23, i.C.M., and that in Micnira cceca ; and furthermore, since all three layers have muscular crosses between themselves and the circular muscle of the body wall, I can see uo reason why each should not with all propriety be termed an inner circular muscle layer, homologous with that of the Protoand Mesonemerteans.
The only difference between the inner circular muscle layer of Zygeupolia and that of the Carinellas and Carinoma is in the amount of surrounding connective tissue, the body " parenchym " of Burger.
In Zygeupolia this tissue is present only around the blood vessels, so that the inner circular muscle layer adjoins the inner longitudinal muscle layer, except where the blood vessels intervene.
In this particular Zygeupolia resembles Carinina, for in Carinina the inner circular muscle borders directly on the longitudinal muscle, and there is no intervening layer of " Leibespareuchym."
The presence of the inner circular muscle layer and the muscular crosses in Zygeupolia and Micrura is important when viewed from a phylogenetic standpoint.
This peculiar region of the body, just in front of the middle intestine, is by far the most interesting part of the whole trunk, for it has unaccountably remained in a primitive condition, as comparison with other Nemerteans will show.
Diagram 2 is a representation of the stages, illustrated by living, more primitive genera, through which the inner circular muscle of Zygeupolia and Micrura may have passed.
A, represents the most primitive condition, found in Carinella annulata, in which the inner circular muscle is a thin layer of uniform thickness, extending throughout the body; in B, Carinella polymorj)ha, the muscle is co-extensive with the body, but is thickened in a certain region ; in C, Carinella linearis, the muscle ends shortly behind the thickened region; in D, Carinoma, the muscle ends 671 B D Diagram 2.
—Showing the comparative extent of the inner circular muscle layer fn certain Nemerteans.— A, Carinellu an/iulata ; B, Carinella 2iolymorpha; C. Carinella linearis; D, Carinoma ; E, Zygenpoha and Micrura cmca.
The heavy lines represent the extent of the inner circular muscle, the broken lines the outline of the alimentary tract.
with an enormous thickening just in front of the middle intestine; E, shows the condition in Zygeupolia and Micrura.
In the last two forms the inner circular layer is absent from the entire oesophageal I'egion, and is represented merely by the thickened part in front of the middle intestine, and a short, thin, anterior extension of this."
In this connection it is interesting to note that in Cephalothrix aliena, a new species from the Maldive Islands recently described by Punnett (1901 a), a very delicate inner circular muscle layer is present in the oesophageal region.
From the facts just enumerated it is evident that the inner circular muscle of the Heteronemerteans may be regarded as the remnant of a layer once continuous throughout the body.
The accompanying table shows the comparative extent of the inner circular muscle layer in the different genera in which it occurs.
The second part, relating to the muscular crosses between inner and outer circular layers, shows that there is great variation in this respect in the genus Cavinella.
^ The facts in regard to the .distribution and structure of the inner circular muscle in the genus Carinella have been obtained from Burger's monograph.
1901.]
673 Inner Circular Muscle.
Carinina grata, CarineUa— a. superba, b. annulata, CarineUa banyulensis, CarineUa rubicunda, CarineUa polymorpha, CarineUa Unearis, Structure.
thicker in nephridial region uniform ness uniform ness lliickthickthinner in nephridial region thinner posterior to uephridial region thicker in nephridial region, very thin posterior to nephri dia thicker in ne phridial region thin posterior to nephridia CaUinera thinner behind biirgeri Berg., | " rhynchoccel muscle sack " Hubrechtia, Carinoma, luniformly thin great thickening at nephridia Cephalot.hr ix aUwery tliin, delioia Punnett, i cate layer ZygeupoUa, Micrura, absent in oesophageal region, ap pears as a thin layer about mm.
anterior to middle intes tine, very thick at posterior end absent in resophageal region, appears as a tliin layer a short distance in front of the middle intestine.quite thick at posterior end Extent.
throughout body (?)
throughout body throughout body throughout body throughout body throughout body from the mouth to nephridia, and a short distance behind them from the mouth to close behind the "rhynchoccel muscle sack" Crosses between Inner Circ.
Muscle and Outer Circ.
Muscle.
Position of Crosses.
ventral cross only in region posterior to nephridia dorsal and venthroughout body tral dorsal only throughout body dorsal cross only in uephridial region wanting dorsal cross faint, throughout body ventral cross wanting wanting wanting throughout body wanting (?)
' from mouth to dorsal and venfrom the mouth endof nephridial region (esophageal region only extends forward for 2 mm.
just anterior to middle intestine tral (?)
dorsal and ventral extends forward!
dorsal and ven a short distance I tral in frontof middle intestine to end of uephridial region at posterior end of the inner circular muscle at posterior end of the inner cirj cular muscle The question now arises, can the so-called " oesophageal muscle " (Darmmusculatur, Burger) be correlated in any way with the inner circular muscle ?
43 674 [Dec, Burger (1895), p. 257, speaks of a musculature ("Darmmusculatur") that is developed in the Meso-, Metaand Heteroneraerteans around the posterior part of the esophagus, consisting of both longitudinal and circular fibres, the fibres being more slender than those of the body wall.
On p. 237 the same writer says that the dorso-ventral fibres that occur so frequently between the intestinal cseca, and also in the anterior part of the liody, may be regarded as parts of a formerly continuous inner circular muscle layer. "
Wir konnen die dorsoventrale Musculatur als eine innere Kingmuskelschicht, welche in lauter, in gewissen Abstilnden aufeinanderfolgende Ringe zerlegt wurde, vorstellen."
He adds that sections of Eupolia and Lmeus geniculatus, the latter figured on Taf.
20, Fig.
V, strengthen this opinion.
In L. geniculatus the dorso-ventral fibres have bent around the intestine, on its dorsal as well as on its ventral face, making a continuous ring of circular muscle, and a crossing between these fibres and the circular muscle of the body wall takes place in the median ventral line.
P S ^CAf i C M I nt Diagram 3.
— Cross section through the body of Ccrehratulus lacteus, illustrating the deflection of the dorso-ventral muscle fibres into the inner circular muscle layer around the intestine.
— P.S., proboscis sheath ; o.
CM., outer circular muscle ; Int., intestine ; i.
CM., inner circular muscle ; I)v.f., dorso-ventral muscle fibres.
From my own observations upon Cerehratulus lacteus, Lineus lacteus and a Lineus sp.
, all preparations kindly lent by Dr. Montgomery, 1 find there is frequently quite a considerable layer of circular muscle fibres beneath the intestine, and also on its dorsal 1901.]
675 side.
These fibres may he almost invariably traced out of the circular sheath around the intestine into dorso-ventral fibres coming from the circular muscle of the body wall, or else into the circular muscle of the proboscis sheath.
This is illustrated by Diagrams 3 ^nd 4.
The same is true in regard to the scattered fibres occaPS oC M Dv f B /;// Diagram 4.
— Cross section thronoh the body of Linens sp.
; illustrating the deflection of the dorso-ventral muscle tibres into the inner circular muscle layer around the intestine.
— P.S., proboscis sheath; o.C.M., outer circular muscle ; Int., intestine; i.C'.M., inner circular muscle; Dv.f., dorso-ventral muscle tibres.
sionally found above or below the oesophagus in Zygeupolia, which come from the body wall or the proboscis sheath, see Diagram 5.
It therefore seems that, if we accept the view of Biirger that the dorso-ventral fibres are derived from an original inner circular muscle layer, we may profitably go a stej) farther and say that the " Darmmusculatur " or " esophageal muscle," found around the dorsal as well as the ventral side of the oBSophagus, is derived from the dorso-ventral fibres which have turned aside from their dorso-ventral course and have curved around the oesophagus so as to partially encircle it.
If this is accepted we may then say that the " oesophageal muscle" is secondarily derived from the inner 676 [Dec, circular muscle, two steps being involved in the phylogeuy: first, the inner circular layer breaks up into detached groups of dorsoventral fibres, then the latter turn out of their course and bend around the intestine to form the encircling " oesophageal muscle."
.
o C Af ^ iC M A Inf Diagram 5.
— Cross section through the body of Zygcupolia, illustrating the deflection of the dorso-ventral muscle fibres into the inner circular muscle layer around the intestine — P.S., proboscis sheath; o.C.M., outer circular muscle; Int., intestine; i.C.M., inner circular muscle; Dv.f., dorso-ventral muscle fibres.
This view is foreshadowed by Hubrecht (1887), p. 71, where he says: " I will not at present attempt to decide whether any of the muscular layers of the oesophagus, noticed both in Eapolia and Cerebratulus' (PI.
VI, fig.
9, ce.m.
; PI.
XIII, fig.
6, mto.
), may also be looked , upon as derivatives of this inner circular layer.
.
, .
;" and "Here, too [alluding to the Schizonemerteans], I would be tempted to hazard a comparison between the absent inner circular layer and the musculature of the proboscis sheath."
To briefly summarize my views in regard to the presence and 'The Cerebratulus here alluded to is C. corrugatm ^= Lineu8 corrugatus, described by M'Intosh (1879).
origin of the iauer circular muscle layers iu the Heterouemerteans : (1) the more or less delicate layer of circular muscle fibres encircling the alimentary tract in the oesophageal region of Zygeiqyolia and Micrura is a primitive structure, the remnant of a once extensive layer; (2) further investigation will probably demonstrate the presence of similar primitive remnants of an inner circular muscle layer in other Heterouemertean genera; (3) the *' oesophageal muscle " fibres that frequently encircle the alimentary tract in the higher Lineidse are continuations of deflected dorso-ventral muscle fibres.
They are not primitive but of more recent structure, secondarily derived from the inner circular muscle layer by a breaking down of the latter into groups of dorsoventral fibres.
The inner circular muscle layer ends with its great thickening just in front of the beginning of the middle intestine, so that posterior to this region the body musculature consists of the usual three layers — outer longitudinal, circular and inner longitudinal (see figs.
24, 25, 26) — which are very thin in the region of the gonads.
Histology of Muscular System.
— Very little neel be said in regard to the histology of the muscle.
Each muscle fibre, as Burger first demonstrated in 1890, is a single cell.
The nuclei are long and stain deeply.
In Plate XL, fig.
13 is shown a portion of the circular muscle layer from the posterior end of the body, drawn from a section stained with iron-haematoxylin.
At regular intervals, dark areas, contr., are seen, alternating with light areas.
The dark portions represent the most contracted part of the layer, the light a region of less contraction, or of rest.
In the middle of the light areas, very faint indications may be seen of a smaller region of contraction.
The contraction caused by fixation has evidently occurred in waves, as the regular intervals show.
These contracted areas were first noticed in the jS^emerteans by Hubrecht (1887).
Wagener (1863) describes "striated" muscle from a Nemertean, the genus of which is not mentioned.
He says the striated areas (*' Querstreifungen ") alternate with thinner, lighter parts, and that the cross-striping merges into a non-striated portion.
A fibre separated from the bundle has a series of swellmgs ( " Ansehwellungen " ) on its surface.
Wagener's Fig, 1, Taf.
IV, shows that what he regards as cross striatious are evidently merely swollen, i.e., contracted areas of the fibres.
2.
The Nervous System.
— a. Anatomy.
— Burger (1895) divides the nervous system of the Nemerteans into a central and a peripheral system.
The former comprises the brain and lateral nerve chords, which have a thick investing layer of ganglion cells; the latter, all other nerves and nerve layers, provided with a thick ganglion cell envelope.
Montgomery (1897 b), p. 382, includes in the central nervous system all parts provided with ganglion cells, namely: " (1) the dorsal and ventral brain lobes and commissures; (2) the lateral nerve chords .
.
.
; (3) the paired oesophageal nerves; (4) the longitudinal nerves of the proboscis .
.
.
; (5) the dorsal, unpaired, larger median nerve of the body wall; and probably also (6) the lesser, unpaired median nerve. '
' The anatomy of the brain of ZijgeupoUa may be readily studied in life from a specimen compressed beneath a cover glass, for the head is so transparent that the parts are easily distinguished (see figs.
1, 16).
The brain lies about 4 mm.
behind the tip of the head, directly in front of the mouth, encircling the rhynchocool, and consists of four lobes or ganglia of about equal size, two dorsal and two ventral.
A^iewed from the dorsal surface, the dorsal lobes, fig.
10, D.L., are most prominent, and at their posterior ends are situated the pear-shaped ce/ebral organs, C.Org., which are about one-third the length of the dorsal lobes and about onehalf their width.
The dorsal lobes are connected above the rhyn choctel by a slender commissure, which is very difficult to see in life, figs.
1, 16, D.Comm., but is easily made out from sections.
Its dorso-ventral measurements vary in different specimens from .04-07 mm., probably owing to diftereut states of contraction, or to the plane of the section.
In the sections of one si^ecimen, fig.
19, the dorsal commissure appeared to be composed of fibres coming from both dorsal and ventral lobes, an unusual condition, and one not previously described in Nemerteans, so far as I am aware.
The ventral lobes are united by a stout commissure, about 14 mm.
measured dorso-ventrally, that in life may be plainly seen, figs.
1, 16, shining through the rhynchocciel, which lies above it, and extending backward posterior to the dorsal commissure.
Measured from side to side, both commissures are short, owing to the close proximity of the braia lobes.
The dorsal and ventral lobes of each side are connected anteriorly, as may be seen from sections, but the conuectiou ends just posterior to the end of the ventral commissure, and from this point backward the dorsal and ventral lobes are quite separate.
In life the ganglion cell layer appears distinct from the fibrous core of the brain and lateral chords, the former as a greenish-yellow investing layer, the latter as a clear silverygray central mass.
From sections it may be seen that both dorsal and ventral lobes are continued forward into the tip of the head as numerous slender nerves, which are approximately represented in Plate XL, fig.
1.
No especial nerve endings have been observed.
The dorsal lobes terminate as such just in front of the cerebral organs, and from their posterior ends arise the nerves that supply the cerebral organs.
Immediately in front of the cerebral organ, the dorsal lobe gives off on its dorsal side a horn or prolongation of the fibrous core surrounded by ganglion cells.
This horn ends shortly and is replaced posteriorly by the cerebral organ, but there is no connection between the two structures, for the cerebral organ derives its nervous matter from the ventral part of the dorsal lobe.
The cerebral organ nerve enters the cerebral organ on the ventral side and afterward branches and ramifies, so that the nervous material is well distributed throughout this sensory organ.
The ventral lobes are continued backward throughout the body and caudicle as the lateral nerve chords (" Seitenstiimme "), fig.
1, L.N., but do not unite posteriorly in an anal commissure.
The paired cesophageaJ nerves, fig.
16, Oc.N., arise from the ventral lobes in the same frontal plane as the cerebral organs, but considerably ventral to them.
A slender commissure, fig.
16, Oe.N.
Comm., is formed between them, .08 mm.
behind their origin, outside the circular muscle layer, just anterior to the mouth, 31.
]5ehind the commissure the nerves pass through the circular and inner longitudinal muscle into the tissue around the mouth, occasionally giving off branches, and continue backward into the oesophageal region.
Here they break up into numerous fine branches which ramify in the walls of the oesophagus, not only on the ventral side but also laterally, and which are very abundant on the dorsal side.
From the dorsal commissure arises the median unpaired upper dorsal nerve, first termed by Hubrecht the " Riisselsclieidennerv, " later the "medullary nerve;" by Biirger denominated the " oberen Riickennerv. "
The dorsal nerve extends throughout the body and ends about .06 mm, in front of the anal opening.
No connection could be traced between the end of the dorsal nerve and the lateral nerves, but it is probable that a delicate plexus exists.
The position of the dorsal nerve is constant, just above the circular muscle in the median plane of the body.
A second doi*sal nerve (" Riisselscheidenucrv," Hubrecht; " unterer Riickennerv," Burger), separates off from the first shortly after its origin, passes inside the circular muscle of the body wall and lies just above the proboscis sheath.
Both nerves are of fair size, about .017 mm.
in diameter in the anterior part of the body, but both become much enlarged in the region of the muscular crosses between the greatly thickened inner circular muscle and that of the body wall, Plate XLI, fig.
23.
Here for a short distance the diameter of the inner nerve reaches a thickness of .03-.
06 mm.
There is considerable variation in the respective sizes of the two nerves in different specimens.
Sometimes the upper nerve is the larger one, but more often the lower nerve attains the greate" size.
The greatest size observed was in a specimen whose lower dorsal nerve measured .117 ram.
dorso-ventrally and .058 mm.
across; the upper dorsal nerve measuring .017 mm.
iu both directions.
This enlarged condition coincided with the thickest part of the inner circular muscle layer.
The same coincidence has been noted in the Protonemerteans and OaH/io?Ha by Hubrecht (1887), who says, p. 80: '' The fact that in this (oesophageal) region of Carinoma the proboscidian sheathnerve comes into the foreground so strongly that it might easily be mistaken for the medulla, may probably be ascribed to the massive development of the inuer circular muscular layer 8, which iu Carinina, Carinella and Carinoma acts at the same time as part of the wall of the proboscidian sheath.
The fact was already noticed as a peculiar feature of the species by INI'Intosh (1875), when he first described Carinoma (under the name of Valenciniaarmaiidi)."
Posterior to the region of the iuner circular muscle the two dorsal nerves resume their normal size, and then gradually decrease until they terminate near the end of the body.
Throughout the greater part of the body the lateral nerves are connected with each other and with the upper dorsal nerve by a nervous layer of fibrous substance (" plexus " of Ilubrecht, " Nervenschicht " of Burger), situated outside the circular muscle.
It is especially strong in the (esophageal part of the body, and in the inner circular muscle region, fig, 23, n.p.
Posteriorly the layer is very thin, or may be entirely absent.
In one specimen a peculiar condition of the lateral chords was observed, Plate XLIV, fig.
62, L.N.
A part of the fibrous substance extends toward the centre of the section in between the fibres of the circular muscle, CM.
: the fibres in the same radial line as the nerve are bent out of their course, and in the space thus formed is the apparent branch of the nerve, running inward.
This condition was not confined to a few sections, but extended over several slides, a distance of at least 1.5 mm.
It at first seemed as if a series of nerves was being given oflf from the inner lateral face of the nerve chord, instead of from tlie dorsal and ventral sides, the usual method in Nemerteans (Burger), Several other specimens were examined, but this peculiarity was not found in them, and I am unable to account for it.
The proboscis is innervated by two slender branches that arise from the dorsal surface of the ventral commissure and immediately run dorsally into the proboscis, which is attached at this point to the body wall.
The two proboscis nerves, Plate XLII, fig.
35, P.N., are distinct in the anterior part of the proboscis, but in the " middle region," as will be described in that section, they become a continuous nervous layer, fig.
40, n.p., separating again near the end of the proboscis into, two distinct nerves, fig.
41, P.N.
h. Histology of Nervous System.
— The brain lobes, as described by Burger (1895) and Montgomery (1897 b), consist of (1) the fibrous core, (2) the inner neurilemma, (3) the ganglion cell layer, and (4) the outer neurilemma.
There is little to be said in regard to (1) and (2), as these structures in Zygeupolia conform to the usual Nemertean type.
In the ganglion cell layer of the brain occur the three types of nerve cells, the small, the medium-sized and the large, described by Burger and Montgomery and denoted as I, II and III.
Montgomery describes the cells of the first type, p. 385, as " densely massed together and of a shortened pyriform shape.
The nucleus is very large in proportion to the cell body, in fact, nearly filling it .
.
.
."
This de.-cnption may also be applied to the cells of the first type in Zijfjeupolia, figs.
20, 9, G.C.u which are found abundautly on tlae dorsal and outer lateral sides of the dorsal lobes, and on the outer lateral sides of the ventral lobes.
They are very numerous around and in the cerebral organs.
The cells of the second type, figs.
20, 10, G.C.n, are elongated and pear-shaped.
The cytoplasm is more abundant than in I, the nucleus is oval and centrally placed, containing relatively less chromatin than that of I.
These cells are arranged usually in radiate clusters, and their distribution in Zygeupolia agrees with that described for other Nemerteans by Biirger and Montgomery, namely, on the ventral lobes and along the lateral chords, never in the dorsal lobes.
The cells of the third type, figs.
20, 8, G. C. i„, are much larger than either I or II, but vary considerably in size.
They are long, pear-shaped cells, with the greatest diameter proximally.
The nucleus is lai'ge, round, and centrally placed, with a large nucleolus, and the chromatin distributed throughout the nucleus.
Montgomery states that " while the cell bodies vary considerably in size, their nuclei remain of nearly uniform dimensions."
These cells are found in both dorsal and ventral lobes and along the lateral chords.
A fourth type of cell has l)eeu discovered and named by Burger (1894), namely, the colossal neurochorcl cells.
Burger (1899), p. 105, states: " Neurochordzellen fand ieh bei alien von mir uutersuchteu Cerebratuleu, ferner bei Lanrjia formosa.
Das Gehirn besitzt stets nur ein eiuziges Paar von Neurochordzellen, welches an der medialen Fliiche der ventralen Ganglien dort gelagert ist, wo die Schlundnerven entspringen.
Zahlreiche Neurochordzellen befindeu sich indessen im GanglienzellbelagderSeitenstiimme .
, , ."
Biirger also found in the Metanemerteans Drepanopliorus and Prosadenoporus one pair of neurochord cells in the braiu, but none along the lateral chords.
The presence of neurochord cells in Cerebratalus lactem has been demonstrated by jNIoutgomery (1897 6), who found that " the colossal ganglion cells (IV) of Cerebndidas are present in three pairs in the ventral brain lobes, and are distributed irregularly along the lateral chords, but are wholly absent in both ends of the latter (namely, in the oesophageal region and in the caudicle)."
In ZijgeupoUa a pair of large cells is found on the median sides of the ventral braiu lobes, about .00 mm.
behind the ventral commissure.
Both cells lie in the same transverse plane.
In one very favorable specimen the nerve tubule of one coll could be traced into the fibrous core of the ventral lobe.
These cells are elongated, with the greatest diameter at the rounded proximal end, and surrounded by a sheath of connective tissue fibres, Plate XL, fig.
3, Cn.
T. S. The length of the cell body is about .058 mm., the greatest width about .029 mm., the diameter of the nucleus .012 mm.
The cytophism stains a pale violet, htematoxylin and eosin stain, and has a slightly granular appearance.
The somewhat oval nucleus is proximally placed, the chromatin is distributed around the periphery, and one large nucleolus is present.
From the position, size and structure of these cells it seems not unfitting to term them neurochord cells.
Biirger has observed that neurochord cells occur in those forms that swim freely, and he thinks there may be some correlation between the occurrence of neurochords and the swimming habit.
While it would be hasty to say that Zjgeupolia has not the power of free swimming, it has not been observed swimming, either in nature or in captivity.
In its native habitat it is always found below the surface of the sand, and while in an aquarium it never rises to the surface, but remains on the bottom, burrowing in the sand, if there is any present, and surrounds itself as soon as possible with a slime sheath to which particles of sand adhere.
When placed in a shallow dish of water the head is usually kept erect and continually swaying about, but there is little or no movement of the body as a whole.
It should be mentioned here that one pair of large ganglion cells, from their structure and position evidently neurochord cells, has lately been observed by the writer in Micrura caxa.
It is not improbable that the occurrence of these cells among the Nemerteans is more common than is generally supposed.
The outer neurilemma is but slightly developed in Zijgeupolia .
It is found around the ventral lobes, but does not occur to any extent around the dorsal lobes or along the lateral chords.
3.
Sense Organs.
— a.
The Cerebral Organs.
— The cerebral organs appear in life, Plate XL, figs.
1, 16, ('.
Org., as rather pearshaped bodies situated at the posterior ends of the dorsal brain lobes, above the ventral lobes.
They are silvery gray, except the posterior ends, which are dark greenish and contain large globules that have an oily appearance, the secretion from the posterior gland cells.
The large blood vessels, in which the posterior ends of the cerebral organs lie, are very noticeable in life, fig.
16, C.Org.V.
They are usually expanded, and the floating blood corpuscles may be seen even with a low power.
Each cerebral organ consists of the following parts: (1) the ciliated pit, opening directly to the exterior; (2) the ciliated canal, leading from the jDit to the anterior end of (3) the cerebral organ proper.
The ciliated pit is the most anterior part of the cerebral organ.
It is a flask-shaped cavity, lined with a ciliated epithelium that is differentiated histologically into several regions which will be described below.
The pit opens directly on the surface of the head, there being no lateral slits, and in life is usually widely expanded, the long cilia beaiing vigorously.
In fixed preparations the pit has a small external aperture, a narrow neck and the inner flaskshaped portion, Plate XLI, fig.
21, Cil.P.
The ciliated canal, Cil.C, is a narrow duct, a continuation of the inner end of the ciliated pit.
It extends in the transverse plane of the body from the ciliated pit to the anterior end of the cerebral organ proper, then, making a sharp turn at right angles to itself, it enters the cerebral organ and continues backward to the posterior end, where it terminates blindly.
The cerebral organ proper is a, pear-shaped structure, wide at the anterior end and gradually becoming narrower at the posterior extremity.
The cerebral organ nerve, which arises ventrally from the posterior end of the dorsal brain lobe, enters the anterior end of the cerebral organ on the dorsal surface, just in front of the entrance of the ciliated canal, and then ramifies throughout the organ.
The basement layer of the body epithelium is continued beneath the epithelium of the ciliated pit and forms around the cerebral organ an envelope of connective tissue, fig.
21, Cn.T.S., of a thickness about equal to that of the inner neurilemma of the brain lobes.
In fig.
21 the thickness of the basement layer and cerebral organ sheath is slightly exaggerated.
The most anterior part of the cerebral organ is completely surrounded by muscular tissue — the inner longitudinal muscle on the inner surface, the circular muscle on the outer side.
The change in the relative position of the circular muscle in respect to the dorsal brain lobes and the cerebral organs has already been described, the circular muscle lying on the inner side of the dorsal lobe, but, with the beginning of the cerebral organs, bending out so as to adjoin their outer surfaces (cf.
figs, 19 and 21).
From fig.
16 it may be seen that the cerebral organ vessels, C.org.
v., lateral branches from the median vessel, J/.
V., run forward, partly encircling the cerebral organs and ending blindly near their anterior ends.
The anterior part of the cerebral organ (see fig.
21, right side) is but partly surrounded by the blood vessel, while the posterior end,* fig.
21, left side, lies nearly free in the blood vessel, being attached at the extreme tip to the body wall.
A noticeable thinning of the connective tissue envelope accompanies the increase of the surface in contact with the blood vessel, and at its posterior end the cerebral organ is covered only by a low epithelium of square flattened cells, except at the point of attachment to the muscular wall, where a small portion of the connective tissue sheath persists, fig.
21, left side.
Histology.
— The epithelium of the ciliated pit consists of three sharply differentiated regions: (1) the epithelium of the outer part, or the neck of the pit; (2) the epithelium lining the median jDart of the pit; (3) the innermost epithelium, 'adjoining that of the ciliated canal.
These three regions may be seen in fig.
21, Oil.
P. The epithelial cells have the same general structure in all three regions, except that the cilia of the cells in the median part (2) are much longer.
A cell from the median part (2) is shown in fig.
7.
It is a slender cell, with an expanded distal end on which the long cilia, CiL, are borne, and tapering into a fine stalk at the proximal bae^^al end; the small nucleus, N., lies just above the stalk.
Each cilium consists of a basal knob, an upper knob and a ciliary thread.
Between the ciliated supporting cells of the outer (1) and inner (3) regions, numerous large interstitial connective tissue cells are present, and their nuclei, fig.
21, Cn.T.N., are very noticeable in sections.
The median (2) region is characterized by its longer * The section drawn in fig.
21 is rather obliquely cut, so that on the right the plane of the section passes through the ciliated pit and the beginning of the cerebral organ, while on the left only the posterior part of the cerebral organ is seen.
cilia and the complete absence of the interstitial connective tissue cells.
In a horizontal section of the ciliated pit the contrast between the three regions is very marked.
In a preparation stained with hiematoxylin eosin, the outer and inner regions are studded with the deep-blue nuclei of the connective tissue cells, while the median region appears pink, from the cytoplasm of the supporting cells, their small nuclei being very inconspicuous.
The epithelium of the ciliated canal is a one-celled layer.
The cells are much lower and wider than those of the pit and bear shorter cilia.
The anterior part of the cerebral organ proper, fig.
21, right side, is richly provided with gland cells, GL-^.
These are large pear-shaped bodies with long slender ducts that open into the ciliated canal.
The cytoplasm is abundant, especially at the base of the cell where the large spherical nucleus is situated.
The secretion is homogeneous and stains red, hrematoxylin-eosin stain.
The posterior part of the cerebral organ, fig.
21, left side, contains other gland cells of a different character, Gl.^.
The cytoplasm is inconspicuous, the nucleus is small, and the secretion has the form of large globules that stain a faint bluish-gray.
These cells are prominent in life, evidently containing oily globules.
The cerebral organs are well supplied with nervous substance.
Ganglion cells of the first type, fig.
21, G. Cu ^^^ very numerous.
b.
The Lateral Grooves.
— The lateral grooves are two shallow elongated pits extending horizontally, one on each side of the body, above the lateral nerve chords.
Each has a length of about 1.5 mm.
The grooves are constant in position in the different specimens examined, always beginning at the posterior end of the glandular zone, Diagram 1, Gl.Z.
and L.G., and ending about 1.5 mm.
in front of the great thickening of the inner circular muscle and the beginning of the middle intestine.
The lateral grooves are distinctly seen in cross sections of this region of the body, appearing as small pits or depressions in the epithelium external to each lateral nerve chord, but they are not macroscopically distinguishable in cither living or preserved specimens, although they have been repeatedly sought.
The shallowness of the grooves has probably rendered them indistinguishable except by the microscope.
The lateral areas of sections of the eutire body have beeu carefully examined, but no indication of any constantly recurring depressions could be found in any other region of the body, either anteriorly or posteriorly.
Here and there, of course, as in most Nemerteans, are small depressions of the surface due to contraction and shrinkage, but their extent is very limited, and they may occur in any position, dorsal, ventral or lateral.
Fig.
62 is a cross section of a portion of the body wall through one of the lateral grooves.
It shows that the lateral groove, L.G., is a depression both of the body epithelium, Ep., and of the outer longitudinal muscle layer, o.L.M.
The epithelial cells in the groove are rather closely crowded together, and the individual cells are not distinguishable with the magnification used.
With a higher magnification, it may be seen that the epithelium is composed of supporting cells, gland cells and interstitial connective tissue cells, just like the rest of the body epithelium.
There is no differentiation of the epithelial cells in the groove.
Culis gland cells of the blue-staining type, Cu.Gl.^, are present in the outer longitudinal muscle layer around the lateral nerve chord below the groove, and their ducts open between the epithelial cells of the groove.
The peculiar appearance of the lateral nerve, as shown in fig.
62, has already been discussed.
The question now to be considered is, What are the lateral grooves ?
Are they the result of contraction — i.e., artifacts — or are they organs of the body ?
The question whether the lateral grooves are merely contractions seems to me to be disposed of by the facts of their constant position, extent and regular occurrence in several individuals.
The alternative, then, is that they are paired organs of the body ; but with what function ?
When these grooves were first observed, I believed that they were sense pits, comparable to the lateral sense organs ("Seitenorgane") of the Protonemerteans, and I hoped that further study, both upon living worms and sections, would demonstrate the presence of sensory cells and possibly of nerves.
The careful study of sections has not revealed any differentiations of the epithelial cells of the lateral groove, although no especial nerve technique, such as the Golgi or methylen blue methods, has been employed.
The possibility remains that under such treatment nerves and sensory cells may yet be demonstrated.
The strongest evidence in favor of considering the lateral grooves as sense organs is the fact that dermal sense organs — aside from the well-known lateral sense organs ( " Seitenorgane" ) of the Protonemerteans, and the frontal organs of other forms — have lately been discovered in certain Nemerteans.
In the anterior part of the body of ParapoUa aurantiaca Coe^ there occur paired structures, resembling the lateral grooves of Zygeupolia, and in the same relative position — that is, in the sides of the body posterior to the nephridia and anterior to the middle intestine.
Plate XLIV, fig.
03, represents a transverse section of a part of the body wall of ParapoUa through one of the lateral grooves.
From this it may be seen that the outer longitudinal muscle, just outside the lateral nerve chord, contains an abundance of large swollen cutis gland cells, Ca.
Gl..>.
These cells stain blue with hfematoxylin and are present only in the vicinity of the lateral nerves, being absent from the rest of the cutis.
The section figured shows that the " lateral groove" is elevated above the general surface level, but in other sections it is depressed into a groove.
This elevation and depression of the "groove" is interesting when one recalls that, according to Burger (1895), the Protonemertean lateral sense organs and the Metanemerteau frontal organs may be both invaginated and everted.
]N"o differentiated sense cells or nerves are distinguishable in the " grooves " of ParapoUa.
The length of the groove of ParapoUa is about the same as that of ZijgeupoUa, and they are probably homologous structures.
In the twelve dermal sense organs of the head, lately described by me (1900 b) for Carinoma tremaphoros, although undoubted sensory cells are present, only in one case could a nerve, running to the pit, be demonstrated.
The recent discovery of a pair of lateral sense organs in the new Ileteronemertean Micrella rufa Puunett (1!
)01 b) is of great interest and value.
Punnett describes " a lateral sense organ on either side (fig.
2) shortly behind the excretory pore.
In the pre^ Dr. Coe has very kindly allowed me to exaiiine the slides of his tj'pe specimen of ParapoUa and to make drawings of the sense organs.
One of these is shown on PI.
XLIV, fig.
63. served animal it is conspicuous as a small longitudinal slit (fig.
5) about .75 mm.
long on either side.
It is lined with characteristic glandular epithelium, resembling that found in the head slits (fig.
6)-" These facts suggest the possibility that the lateral grooves of ZijgeupoUa may be sense organs that are cither in process of formation, or that have degenerated and lost their sensory character.
There remains one other interpretation of the lateral grooves, which has been suggested by the presence of the great glandular zone in front of the grooves and the situation of the gonads posterior to them.
The glandular zone may have a function like the clitellum of the Annelids, and the lateral grooves may be like the grooves found along the sides of the body of an earthworm, and serve to conduct the mucous secretion to the Qgg cells.
This last hypothesis could be substantiated only by a careful study of the habits of Zygeupolia.
4.
The Rhynchod.eum.
— Immediately behind the tip of the head on the ventral surface may be found a very small opening, the proboscis pore (" Rtisseloffnung "), which is the external opening of the rhynchodieum.
The rhynchodseum is the rather cylindrical cavity that extends through the head from the point of attachment of the proboscis with the body wall, Plate XL, fig.
1, y, forward to the proboscis pore, P.J)., at the tip of the head.
It is the path of exit for the evaginated proboscis.
A transverse section through the rhynchodseum shows that its walls are provided with four stronf?
bundles of longitudinal muscle, seen in Plate XLI, fig.
18, Rd.M., and that it is lined with a ciliated epithelium.
This lining is very delicate and liable to be torn away, and usually can be seen only at the most anterior part of the rtiynchodieum.
It may persist farther back, but the cilia are mostly broken off in the preparations that have been sectioned.
The cilia of this epithelial lining are considerably longer than those of the body epithelium.
5.
Rhyxchoccel axd Proboscis Sheath.
— The proboscis, fig.
1, P., lies in a spacious cavity, the rhynchocrel.
Be, the muscular walls of which form the so-called " proboscis sheath."
The rhynchocoel is cl jsed anteriorly by the attachment of the proboscis to 44 the body wall, figs.
1, 16, t/, and posteriorly ends blindly about .8 mm.
in front of the anus, fig.
17, Re.
In the brain region the rhynchocoel i3 very narrow, passing between the dorsal and ventral commissures, fig.
20, Re.
A constant widening of the rhynchoccel takes place in the esophageal region, fig.
22, and the widest, most expanded part usually lies above that portion of the body extending from the nephridia to the beginning of the middle intestine (see fig.
1).
At the latter point the great increase of the circular muscle layer of the proboscis sheath and of the inner circular layer causes a sudden constriction of the rhynchocoel, fig.
23.
Posterior to this narrowed region, which is quite short, the rhynchocoel again widens, then gradually narrows more and more until near the end of the body the cavity is scarcely demonstrable.
The rhynchocoel is filled with a fluid in which float numerous long narrow cells, fig.
43, the " rhynchocoel corpuscles" of Biirger, " Navicula " of Quatrefages (1846) and Keferstein (1862).
These cells are long and spindle-sha^Ded, larger in the middle where the nucleus lies, and tapering to a fine point at each end.
They are flattened and ribboulike, as may be seen when the cell is twisted.
Biirger (1892) has described an "attraction sphere" in the cytoplasm by the side of the nucleus.
These do not appear in my preparations and, unfortunately, the rhynchoca^ corpuscles were not studied in life.
In one cell, however, the nuclear membrane curves in on one side, and a lighter zone in the adjoining cytoplasm may be seen, but there are no astral radiations.
In another cell, fig.
43, jS\, two nuclei are present, probably the result of amitosis.
A second, smaller type of cell, fig.
42, is also found in the rhynchoc(cl, resembling the free corpuscles in the blood vessels.
These cells are rouTided, with finely granular cytoplasm and prominent nuclei.
The layers of the proboscis sheath are as follows (see figs.
20, 50;: 1.
The circular muscle layer, C.M.p.s.
2.
The longitudinal muscle layer, L.M.p.s.
3.
The basement layer, B.L.
4.
Tli(!
epithelium, Rc.Ep.
The muscular layers are rather thin in the head region, except when especially contracted.
The basement layer is a homoj^eneous, gelatinous-looking, fibrous connective tissue layer, resembling that of the proboscis and body epithelia.
The epithelial cells in the anterior part of the rhynchoccid, Plate XLllI, fig.
50, are not in close contact with each other and do not form a flattened endothelium.
They are small, slender, pear-shaped cells, attached by their proximal ends to the basement membrane, with the nuclei at their distal ends, which project freely into the rhynchocoel.
Farther back these cells become a flattened endothelium.
The dorsal blood vessel in this region is bordered on its ventral surface by numerous bundles of longitudinal muscle, evidently derived from the longitudinal muscle of the proboscis sheath.
From the end of the (esophageal region to the beginning of the middle intestine the rhynchocoel is usually greatly dilated, the pro boscis is intricately coiled and much of the rhynchocoelomic fluid is centred here.
Frequently the entire proboscis is drawn forward into this region, leaving the posterior part of the rhynchoco?l quite empty.
The proboscis sheath in the expanded region is stretched to its greatest extent, so that it appears in cross section as an extremely thin sheet of tissue, and its component layers are scarcely distinguishable.
In the posterior part of the rhynchocrel — t.e., in the part lying above the middle intestine — the circular muscle is the predominating layer in the proboscis sheath, the longitudinal muscle being represented by a very small number of fibres.
A word may be said here in regard to the comparative extent and character of the rhynchocad and proboscis sheath in the different groups of Nemerteaus, and of its position in respect to other organs.
In the Protonemerteans the rhynchocal is short, its extent being only about one-third that of the body.
It is widest in the nephridial region, then l)ecomes constricted, owing to the thickening of the inner circular muscle, but again widens somewhat before its termination, just in front of the beginning of the middle intestine.
In the words of Burger (1895), p. 95 : ** Das Rhynchocolom ist vor der Xephridialregion am geriiumigsten, in derselben wird es durch die miichtig angeschwollene innere Kingmuskelschicht sehr beti-iichtlich eingeengt und erweitert sich wieder etwas, nacliflem jene abgenomraeri hat, hiuter den Nepbridien."
In Huhrecldia the rhynehoca'l is short, ending just in front of the beginning of the middle intestine.
To quote Burger again, p. 106: " Der Mitteldarm von H, beginnt in der hinteren Region des Rhynchocoionis.
In diesera vordersten Abschnitt des Mitteldarms erscheinen die Taschen nur als flache seitliche Ausbuchtungen des ^ehr geriiumigen centralen Darmrohres.
Sobald das Rhynehocohini aufhort, verengt sich aber das centrale Rohr, und uunmehr werden die Taschen sehr umfangreich, sie erfiillen die Korper fastvollig."
Cur'nioma has the rhynchoca>l extending throughout the body, but the character of the proboscis sheath is very diverse.
In no other Nemertean is the inner circular muscle so highly developed, and as this muscle layer increases in thickness, the muscle of the proboscis sheath becomes thinner and finally disappears altogether.
But with the ending of the inner circular muscle in the nephridial region, the proboscis sheath again acquires a musculature of its own.
This region is also the beginning of the middle intestine — " Sowie der Vorderdarm aus dera inneren Ringmuskelschlauch herausgetreten ist, beginnt der Mitteldarm," Burger (1895), p. 113.
In Callinem hurgeri, Bergeudal (1900 a), the rhynchoecx;!
ends in the anterior part of the middle intestinal region by a great muscular swelling of its lateral and ventral walls.
Bergendal, p. 314, describes this as follows: " Das Rhynchocoelom besitzt schwache Wiinde, bis dasselbe sich dem zweiten Drittel des Korpers nlihert.
Da erhiilt es zuerst eine sehr starke Grundschicht, die bald weiter nach liiuten wieder verdiinnt wird und in einen miichtigen Muskelsack eindriingt Die dorsale Wand des Rhynchocoeloms schwindet und bosteht nur in einer etwas verstiirkten Gi'undschicht.
Die seitliche und ventrale Wand wird um so dicker und besteht aus sehr schonen bogenformigen ^luskelbiindern .... diese Schicht ist beinahe so niiichtig wie die halbe Dicke des Kurpers. "
From these daia it is seen that in Nemerteans with a short rhynchocoel, the termination of the latter is near the end of the nephridial region and the beginning of the middle intestine, and usually ooinciding with the thickening, when present, of the inner circular tnuscle.
Carlnoma is no exception to this, for we may regard its long rhynchocffil as merely a secondary development backward behind the usual point of termination.
The same may be said of Zygeupolla.
The exjianded rhynchoca-l is constricted in the region of the inner circular umsclc at the beginning of the middle intestine, and instead of ending here, as may have been the case primitively, has secondarily developed backward through the whole length of the body.
6.
The Proboscis.
— The proboscis, Plate XL, tigs.
1, 16, P., is attached to the body vrall in the brain region, just anterior to the dorsal commissure.
It lies in the rhynchoctel, Re, bathed by the rhynchocoelomic fluid.
The posterior end is not attached to the wall of the rhynchoc«d but is entirely free, there being no retractor muscle.
In regard to its histology the proboscis may be divided into three regions, which, however, pass very gradually into one another.
These parts are (1 ) the anterior region, which is comparatively short, being of about the same length as the (lesophagus, above which it lies; (2) the middle region, comprising the greater part of the proboscis; and (3) the extreme posterior region, only a few millimeters in length.
In the following description the nomenclature of Burger (1895) will be followed, by which in the unevaginated proboscis the layers nearest the central cavity are termed the inner layers, those toward the periphery the outer.
The Anterior lieyiou.
— This part of the proboscis is usually straight and the average diameter is 0.116 mm.
A cross section, Plate XLII, fig.
85, has the following layers: 1.
The outer epithelium, o.Ej).
2.
The subepithehal layer of circular muscle fibrils, Ep.M.J.
3.
The outer basement layer, o.B.L.
4.
The longitudinal muscle layer, L.M.
5.
The lateral nerves, P.N.
6.
The inner basement layer, l.B.L.
7.
The inner epithelium, i.Ep.
The outer epithelium, fig.
44, o.Ep., in the most anterior part of the anterior region, consists of low, rather brick-shaped cells, in which the cytoplasm is quite abundant, and whose nuclei are large and prominent.
Farther back the cells are lower and finally form a flattened endothelium, that is frequently toi-n away in my preparations.
Just beneath the outer epithehum is a layer of very fine muscle fibres, Ep.m.f., running circularly around the proboscis.
These may be termed the subepithelial circular muscle layer'' of the proboscis.
In a cross section of the proboscis, fig.
35, these fibrils are in longitudinal section, but in a longitudinal section of the proboscis, fig.
38, they are cut transversely, ana it may be seen that the layer is only one fibril thick.
The basement layer, or ground substance, is a homogeneous, gelatinous-looking structure of considerable thickness.
It is a product of the fibres of connective tissue cells, and their nuclei may be found scattered here and there among the fibres.
The thickness varies considerably in different specimens.
It may be most favorably studied in a specimen fixed with Gilson's fluid, one of the best fixatives for connective tissue.
The region of the greatest thickness is always in the anterior part of the proboscis and rapidly diminishes toward the middle region.
The longitudinal muscle layer, L.M., consists of bundles of fibres, about eight to ten fibres in each.
The two jiroboscis nerves, P.N., are distinct from one another, each surrounded by a sheath of connective tissue.
The structure of the inner basement layer, i.B.L., is similar to that of the outer layer but is only about one-third as thick.
The inner epithelium, i.Ep., is a one-celled layer.
The cells are square in cross section, the cell-membranes distinct and the nuclei large and rounded.
Between the epithelial cells are numerous gland cells, Gl.^, the contents of which stain dark blue with hsematoxylin.
The central cavity of the proboscis is quite large in this region.
The transition stages between the anterior and middle regions are characterized by the decrease in thickness and the almost total disappearance of the outer basement layer.
Its diminution is coincident with the establishment of a circular muscle layer on the axial side of the longitudinal muscle.
A considerable amount of connective tissue appears Avithin the new circular muscle layer, forming the core of the papilhc into which the inner surface of the proboscis is now raised.
A considerable increase in the ® The subepithelial muscle fibrils are uot seen in fig.
14, which represents a portion of the proboscis only a few sections behind its point of attachment, but they begin a short distance farther back and I'orni a continuous layer to the posterior tip of the proboscis.
height of the inner epithelial cells may be noticed, and gland cells are becoming more numerous.
The Middle Region.
— The proboscis is usually greatly twisted and coiled, and the maximum diameter is found here, about 0.4 mm.
The layers are as follows (see figs.
38, 40) : 1.
The outer epithelium, o.Ep.
2.
The subepithelial layer of circular muscle fibrils, Ep.m.f3.
The outer basement layer, o.B.L.
4.
The longitudinal muscle layer, L.M.
5.
The circular muscle layer, CM.
6.
The nervous plexus, n.-p. 7.
The connective tissue of the papillse, Gn.
T. 8.
The inner epithelium, i.Ep.
1, 2, 3, 4 and 7 have essentially the same structure as in the transition stages.
The notable features of this region are found in the circular muscle and the inner epithelium.
Shortly after the appearance of the circular muscle layer, there is a crossing of the circular ^fibres at one point out through the longitudinal layer.
DX JDX yx Diagram 6.
— Zygcupolin, cross section of "middle region" of proboscis, with one muscular cross — D X, dorsal muscular cross ; i.Ep., inner epithelium.
Diagram 7.
— ZygeiipoUa, cross section of "middle region" of proboscis, -with strong dorsal and faint ventral muscular cross — D.X., dorsal muscular cross ; V.X., arm of ventral cross ; i.Ep., inner epithelium ; Ji., abnormal, enlarged region of longitudinal muscle.
The fibres of the cross are very thin, and after crossing are apparently continued as the subepithelial circular layer of fibrils before described.
It is a fact worthy of note that although the crossing of the circular fibres takes place first in the middle region, the subepithelial layer of circular fibrils extends almost to the anterior end of the proboscis.
In some specimens the muscular cross is present on the dorsal surface only (see Diagram 6, D.X.
), in others there is a weaker cross on the ventral side, fig.
40, and in still other specimens the two arms of the ventral cross are very faint, and lie about 120° apart (see Diagram 7, V.X.).
In this latter case there is an exceptional arrangement of the longitudinal muscle fibres of the proboscis.
The dorso-ventral diameter is about .145 mm., and almost one-half of the area of the proboscis is occupied by the circular muscle of the ventral side, Diagram 7, K. The muscle fibres have, increased enomiously on this side, and spaces filled with a connective tissue reticulum separate the wide part of the layer from the narrower, normal part.
Through these connective tissue areas run the fibres of the ventral cross.
The lateral nerves are separate at the beginning of the middle region, I)ut farther back they spread out into a thin nervous layer, fig.
40, n.p., which forms a continuous ring around the proboscis, along the inner surface of the circular muscle.
The glandular inner epithelium of the middle region is characterized by a structure that will be termed the glandular ridge, Plate XLTI, fig.
40, Gl.B.
The dorsal surface bears an elevation consisting of a core of connective tissue, C'n.
T., which is continued throughout the middle region.
The epithelium clothing the ridge is very specialized.
The entire surface of the ridge is thrown into a series of lesser elevations, or knobs, covered by masses of rodshaped bodies that are aggregated in clusters, each cluster on a small papilla.
With hiematoxylin-eosiu these rods stain a bright red, and are evidently glandular secretions.
Biii-ger (1895) has descril)ed and figured, from the probosces of living worms, very similar structures, which he has termed rhahdites.
Burger considers each rhabdite as the product of a single cell.
As the redstaining bodies in Zijgeupolla bear a close resemblance to the rhabdites of Biirger, they will receive the same term.
Unfortunately the proboscis of Zygeupolla was not studied in life, so that the descriptions here given are based wholly on sections.'
' The best fixation for the rhabdites is 95 per cent, alcohol ; their structure is also shown, but not so well, with corrosive sublimate and 50 per cent.
Fig.
36 shows a small branch of the glandular ridge, on the surface of which are several clusters of rhabdites.
The section has passed through the centre of the branch, exposing the central connective tissue core, the lightly shaded area, Cn.
T. No nuclei have been seen in the rhabdite cells, probably owing to the great number and the close proximity of the glandular secretions.
The inner epithelium of the ventral surface is of quite a different character.
A certain amount of interstitial connective tissue is present at the base, but there are no elevations.
The most prominent constituents of the epithelium are the large pink-staining (hrematoxylin-eosin) gland cells, fig.
40, GL^.
These cells are quite elongated, the distal ends are large, and the proximal ends are narrowed into a slender stalk.
The cell body is entirely filled with the granular secretion, and the nucleus lies just above the stalk.
Between the gland cells are very slender cells, somewhat resembling epithelial supporting cells in shape.
The nucleus is at the base of the slender cell body, and in the distal cytoplasm may be found one, or sometimes two, rods shaped like a thorn, with flat base and pointed end.
The base is embedded in the cytoplasm, the pointed ends project beyond the cell.
These structures, fig.
40, Th., stain a deep blue, hrematoxylin-eosin ; brownish with the Ehrlich-Biondi stain.
The Posterior Region.
— The diameter of the proboscis in the posterior region, fig.
41, is constantly decreasing, until at the extreme tip it measures only .04 mm.
The outer epithelial cells, fig.
39, o.Ep., like those of the extreme anterior region, are ratlier brick-shaped cells with abundant cytoplasm, and do not form a flattened endothelium.
The muscle layers have decreased relatively to the other tissues; and instead of the nervous plexus of the middle region, there are, again, two separate lateral nerves, P.X.
The amount of connective tissue, Cn.
T.N., has increased, and as the nuclei of these cells are large, with but little cytoplasm, the effect produced is that of a layer of undifferentiated tissue.
The glandular ridge has disappeared, and the inner epithelium is of a uniform character, consisting of pinkstaining gland cells, GV.j, like those in the ventral epithelium of the middle region.
alcohol ; while they are ewollen and quite unrecognizable with Flemming's fluid.
At the extreme tip of the proboscis the muscular layers ahnost disappear, the couuective tissue cells become even more abundant, and the gland cells of the inner epithelium are replaced by low, flattened endothelial cells.
7.
The Blood Vascular Svstem.
— The anterior part of the head of Zijgeujjolla differs from that of most Nemerteans in being quite devoid of blood vessels, and even of blood spaces that are large enough to be seen, although there is no doubt a network of capillaries too fine to be distinguishable either in life or in fixed preparations.
Tlie blood system makes its first appearance in the brain region, just behind the insertion of the proboscis, Plaie XL, fig.
16.
In the blood system the following parts may be found (see figs.
16, 17): (1) The fine paired head vessels, H.V.,* which unite to form (2) the unpaired median vessel, M. F.; (3) the paired cerebral organ vessels, C. Org.
V.; (4) the unpaired dorsal vessel, D. V.; (5) the paired lateral vessels of the body, L. V.; (6) the ventral, connectives of the lateral vessels (fig.
22), V.bl.con.
; (7) the paired dorso-lateral vessels at the posterior end of the body, derived from the forking of the unpaired dorsal vessel, DI.
V., and (8) the central blood lacuna in the caudicle, Bl.L.
In sections of the brain region, fig.
19, H. Y., the head vessels appear as two irregular clefts running dorso-ventrally, one on each side of the proboscis, just behind its insertion.
These narrow slits lie in the limited area between the proboscis sheath and the circular muscle of the body wall, and in the vicinity of the veurral brain commissure their ventral ends coalesce, forming an unpaired crescent-shaped vessel, the median vessel, which encircles the lower half of the proboscis sheath, fig.
20, M. Y.
The median blood vessel extends from this point backward as far as the mouth.
In its course it becomes considerably deeper dorsoventrally, and is very noticeable in sections of this region.
It assumes a horseshoe shape, with the apex pointing ventrally and the two long slender arms prolonged dorsally.
In the vicinity of the cerebral organs, fig.
21, the arms are cut off by a horizontal band of muscle fibres, H.M., that lies beneath the cerebral organs ' The reference line from H.V., in fig.
16, should extend in as far as the red lines indicAtin"; the head vessel.
and the rhyuchocwl, so that only the triangular middle part of the median vessel now remains.
Immediately behind the ventral brain commissure the unpaired dorsal blood vessel arises from the median vessel, figs.
16, 21, D. V. It passes up through the muscle layers of the proboscis sheath into the rhynehoccel, and continues in this position — on the floor of the rhynchoca?l in the median line, but bounded dorsally by the rhynchocoilomic epithelium — until about the middle of the nephridia} region, fig.
22.
Here the dorsal vessel passes down through the proboscis sheath and out again into the tissue that is just beneath the rhynchociel and above the alimentary canal; and this position is retained throughout the remainder of its course, figs.
23, 24.
In ihe anterior tesophageal region the lateral blood vessels are united beneath the oesophagus by ventral connectives.
In one specimen the connectives are broad and dilated, fig.
22, V.hl.con., in others they are almost entirely shrunken together.
The ventral connection of the lateral trunks is continued throughout the ffisophageal region, forming a network of fine anastomosing branches.
It is probably further continued, in the remainder of the body, but I have been unable to follow it in my specimens.
In the oesophageal region the lateral trunks he on the dorso-lateral side of the alimentary canal; in the middle intestinal region they have moved ventrally and lie on the ventral side of the intestine.
No connection between the dorsal vessel and the lateral trunks has been observed, except at the extreme posterior end of the body.
Some little distance in front of the end of the body proper (see fig.
17) the dorsal vessel divides into two, which for a time lie side by side, their walls adjoining.
They then move apart, and lie in about the same relative distance from one another as do the two ventral lateral trunks, so that in a section of this region, fig.
26, four vessels ai-e present, symmetrically placed.
Just anterior to the anal opening the two dorsal vessels, or rather the dorso-lateral vessels, descend and unite with their ventral fellows in a large blood lacuna, fig.
27, Bl.L.
This lacuna now occupies most of the area inside the body musculature, for the intestine curves dorsally and shortly opens to the exterior on the dorsal surface of the body.
The large lacuna passes on into the caudicle, fig.
17, Bl.L., and continues throughout its length.
It has no definite walls, but is bounded bv the muscular wall of the caudicle, on the inner surface of which are irregular groups of large raesenchym cells, figs.
27, 28, mes., many of which become detached and float freely in the lacuna.
Hidolocjii.
— The wall of the median blood vessel is a one-celled layer, fig.
29, of low, somewhat flattened cells that are wider than high.
The nuclei are oval and vather prominent and the cytoplasm clear and hyaline.
In places the wall becomes a flattened endothelium, often appearing in cross section like a thin membrane, along wh'ch the nuclei lie.
The lining of the cerebral organ blood vessels is of a similar character.
The dorsal blood vessel, as already mentioned, lies, in the anterior part of its course, in the mid-ventral wall of the rhynchocoel, and posteriorly, beneath the rhynchoccel.
Fig.
50, a section through the dorsal blood vessel shortly behind its origin, shows that the vessel is surrounded ventrally and laterally by bundles of longitudinal fibres, which are more numerous here than on the other surfaces of the rhynchoco?l wall, and probably take part in the contractions of the vessel, while the dorsal surface of the vessel is bounded by the epithelial lining of the rhynchnccel, Rc.Ep.
The wall of the dorsal vessel consists of an endothelium.
End., of low, rather brick-shaped cells with large nuclei.
The cells of the ventral part of the wall are very regularly arranged, Plate XLIIl, fig.
50, but the regularity of the dorsal wall is interrupted by the proliferation of numerous blood-forming cells, Bl.f.
C, that project into the lumen of the vessel and remain for some time attached to the dorsal wall by their slender stalks.
The boundary between the dorsal wall of the blood vessel and the epithelium of the rhynchocud is marked by a fine line, Bl.M., that varies in distinctness in different preparations.
After the luematoxylin-eosin stain it appears pink, after iron-hrematoxyliu, black, so that it is probable that a few muscle fibres are present here, forming a very delicate circular layer around the dorsal side of the vessel.
This line might also represent a deeply stained connective tissue layer, but, since the dorsal vessel after leaving the rhynchocfel has a well-defined muscle slieatli, it seems more likely that this is the beginning of a muscle layer.
The blood-forming cells are evidentlv enlarged endothelial cells.
that gradually separate off and become free.
At first pear-shaped, with a slender stalk, they later become rounded and are frequently amoeboid in outline, fig.
51, Bl.f.
C. The cytoplasm is finely granular in appearance and quite f)rominent.
In the anterior (rhynchoca?lomic) part of the dorsal vessel the blood-forming cells arise only from the dorsal side, but posteriorly from all sides of the dorsal vessel (cf.
figs.
50, 51).
The dorsal blood vessel after leaving the rhynchoccel lies beneath it and above the intestine, figs.
22, 2S, immediately surrounded by a network of connective tissue cells.
The wall, fig.
51, consists of an inner endothelium, End., and an outer circular muscle layer, BLM., that in this region is continued around the entire vessel, and is not confined to the dorso-lateral surface, as in the anterior region.
The muscle fibres are very fine, but are clear and distinct, and are especially well seen in tangential sections of the vessel.
The endothelium.
End., is very irregular, being interrupted by the proliferation of cells from all sides of the vessel.
In places, many consecutive sections of the vessel may be examined without finding a single true endothelial cell, while numerous blood-forming cells are present in each section.
Two explanations for this are possible: either all the endothelial cells have been changed into bloodforming cells, or the endothelium has been rubbed or torn off.
The latter is supported by the fact that a thin lining of cytoplasm may nearly always be seen on the inner side of the muscular layer, even though no nuclei are present.
The two dorso-lateral vessels at the posterior (:nd of the body, figs.
26, 49, have the same histological structure as the dorsal vessel — the outer, circular muscle layer, and the inner, more or less interrupted endothelium and numerous blood-forming cells.
The lateral vessels, figs.
46, 47, L.V., and their ventral connectives, V. hi.
con., are lined anterioi'ly by low, brick-shaped cells like those of the median vessel, with prominent nuclei and hyaline cytoplasm.
This endothelium soon becomes more flattened and membraneous.
Here and there a blood-forming cell is given off, fig.
46, Bl.f.C, but there is no abundant proliferation of these cells as in the dorsal vessel.
In the nephridial region the endothelium of the lateral blood vessels is discontinuous, being absent from the surfaces of the terminal bulbs.
Xo muscular layer is present in the anterior part of the lateral vessels, the wall consistIng merely of the endothelium.
Outside of the membraneous endothelium, in the more posterior part of the lateral vessels, fine librils are seen.
These may be either fine muscular fibrils, or the end processes of the branched conpective tissue cells that are so numerous around the blood vessels.
From their general appearance, and from the absence of muscle fibres in the more anterior part of the lateral vessels, I am inclined to regard them rather as connective tissue fibres.
8.
The Excretory System.
— The paired nephridia,' fig.
1, Nph., lie in the anterior part of the body, about 6-7 mm.
behind the mouth, bordering on the ventral surface of the lateral blood vessels and running parallel with them; they are about 2.5 mm.
in length, and there is no communication between the two nephridia.
Each nephridium may be briefly described as a slightly convoluted tube (the main duct) that opens to the exterior by a narrow duct (excretory duct) at its posterior end, and which anteriorly gives off a number of slender, thin-walled branches (the ductules), each of these ending blindly in a group of specialized cells, known as a terminal l)alb (" Eudkiilbcheu, " Burger).
The most anterior part of the nephridial system, consisting of the terminal bulbs, fig.
47, T.B., and their ductules, Nph.d., is found along the ventral surface of the lateral blood vessels, L. V., and their ventral connectives, Plate XLI, fig.
22, Y. hi.
con.
No main duct is present in this region, and the irregular network of the fine ductules and their blind ends at first seemed a hopelessly confused mass of tissue, but by the careful study of serial sections the relative arrangement of the parts has been made out.
The terminal bulb, Plate XLIII, fig.
47, T.B., is the blind enlarged end of the fine ductule, N2)h.d., coming from the main duct.
fig.
46, Npli.D.
Each bulb consists of a number of cells, probably eight to ten or more, but it is difiicult to determine this exactly as a bulb does not always lie wliolly in one section.
The cells of the bulb are placed side to side about a central lumen, so that the walls of the bulb are one cell thick.
The height of the cells — that is, the 'Several attempts were made to study the nephridia in life, but they could be seen in two specimens only.
In these, merely the presence of the main duct was made out, and in one case the excretory dnct.
The methyleu blue metliod, employed ])y Biirger (1892, p. 327, Ibotuote) for the study of the nephridia of Eapoliu and various Metanemerteaus, was tried ])ut without success, so that the following description is based entirely upon the study of sections.
distance faora the lumen to the periphery of the bulb — is greater than their width.
The peripheral ends are considerably enlarged and often irregular in outline; the luminal ends are frequently produced into long slender processes that seem to take some part in the formation of the stem of the bulb.
The cytoplasm of the peripheral (proximal) end takes a bright pink, hsematoxylin-eosin stain; the distal processes, however, stain very faintly.
The nucleus is large and fusiform, but appears round in cross section, and is situated in the expanded proximal end of the cell.
After finding the terminal bulb cells so well preserved in sections, it seemed most probable that the long branches of vibratile cilia, the " ciliary flames " (" WimperQammen, " Burger), present in the terminal bulbs of other Nemerteans, might also be found; but although they have been carefully looked for, they have net been seen.
Cilia, fig.
46, Cil., are found on the cells of the nephridial duct and of the ductules, and generally in a good state of preservation, so that it seems improbable that the cilia of the bulbs should have been destroyed by fixation.
On the other hand, the analogy with the terminal bulbs of those Nemerteans that have been exhaustively studied is in favor of their presence in Zyf/eujjolia also.
The bulbs project freely into the blood vessel all along its ventral surface, and in one case a ductule was observed that passed through the vessel, so that its bulb came to lie on the opposite, dorsal, surface.
The epithelial lining of the blood vessel is frequently broken and discontinuous in*' the region of the bulbs, figs.
46, 47, and in no place are the bulbs covei'ed by it, so that the ends of the bulbs are directly bathed by the blood.
The absence of the blood vessel epithelium from the ends of the bulbs may facilitate the absorption of waste substance from the blood, and this may account for the disappearance of the lining from around the bulbs of the nephridia.
No internal openings between the nephridium and the blood vessel, such as Oudemans describes in Carinoma armandi, have been seen.
The nephridial ductules, figs.
46, 47, Npli.d., the slender tubes that connect the terminal bulbs and the main duct, are very sinuous, and it is probable that several terminal bulbs may connect with one ductule.
Some ductules are quite long, especially those that run along the ventral blood connectives.
The wall of the ductule is a one-celled layer and encloses a narrow lumen.
The cells are wider than high, with but little cytoplasm and elongated nuclei.
The cell surface turned toward the lumen bears cilia.
No basement membrane is present.
About 3-4 mm.
behind the first appearance of the terminal bulbs the main nephridial duct begins, fig.
46, Nph.D.
It is situated on the ventral side of the lateral blood vessel, in the angle made by the junction of the ventral connective with the lateral vessel; the main duct does not project into the blood vessel, but merely adjoins it with one surface, the other surfaces being surrounded by the fibres of the inner longitudinal muscle layer.
The main duct is about 2 mm.
long and composes the greater part of the nephridium.
Into its anterior end for some little distance the ductules open, but behind that there are no diverticula until the excretory duct at the posterior end is reached.
The main duct is thick-walled, fig.
46, and slightly convoluted throughout its length.
The cells of the wall are considerably higher than wide, with quite sharply defined cell membranes.
The nuclei are prominent and are situated near the outer or basal side of the cell, i.e., away from the lumen of the duct.
The outer surfaces of the cells are usually irregular, and often bear amoeboid processes, no basement membrane being present.
The surface bordering on the lumen is ciliated, and the liasal knobs of the cilia are very distinct.
In the cells of the main duct and ductules of one specimen that had been fixed in a solution of sublimate in 50 per cent, alcohol, and stained with hjeraatoxyliu and eosin, were found numerous prominent red-staining bodies of the same size as the nucleus, but neither larger nor smaller ones.
Wherever these red bodies occurred they were found one to a cell, and at first it seemed as if they were degenerating nuclei.
Careful examination, however, detected the nucleus in each cell, of normal size, but staining less deeply than usual.
It is possible that these bodies may be excretory masses, but their absence from the lumen of the duct and the fact that no intermediate stages in their formation have been seen would discredit this view.
Burger (1890), p. 93, describes in the uephridia of Carinella what may be similar masses: " Schon in den Zellen der .... Endkaniilchen und Eudkolben, fielen mir bis kerngrosse glunzende griine Konkremente auf.
Ueber ihre Natiir musste ich im Unklareu bleibeu ; niemals beobachtete ich solche im Excretioiisgcfassliiinen selbst."
The excretory duct, figs.
1, 45, Exc.d., is the small, thin-walled tube that connects the main duct with the exterior.
Its course is in a plane at right angles to the plane of the main duct, and it opens to the exterior just dorsal to the lateral nerve chord.
Since the excretory duct runs in a direct line to the epidermis with but little turning or twisting, its length is merely the distance from the main duct to the surface of the body wall.
The cells composing the wall are much lower than those of the main duct, and are wider than high, the height being about .006 mm.
Cilia are borne on the ianer surface.
No basement membrane is present.
The cells of the excretory duct meet those of the body epithelium at the surface of the body, there being little or no invagination of the epidermis.
A good deal of evidently foreign matter from the exterior is usually found in the excretory duct.
9.
The Alimentary System.
— The alimentary canal of the Heteronemerteans is usually divided into the following regions: (1) The mouth; (2) the a^sophagus, or anterior intestine (" Vor.
derdarm," Biirger), a straight tube without lateral diverticula; (8) the middle intestine (" Mitteldarm," Burger), with lateral outgrowths or cieca throughout its length; (4) the anal portion of the intestine ("Enddarm"), a short region where the lateral cceca ar no longer present, terminating in (5) the anal opening.
Burger (1895), p. 240, says: " Wir nennen den uugegliederten vorderen Darmabschnitt Vorderdarm, den gegliederten, welcher der mittleren und hinteren Korperregion characteristisch ist, den Mitteldarm.
Wir bezeichnen feruer am Mitteldarm den rohrenformigen Theil als axiales Rohr, die peripheren Ausstiilpuugeu desselben als Darmtaschen."
According to Biirger, the (esophagus (Vorderdarm) has frequently two regions, an antei'ior and a posterior, that differ histologically from one another.
In Garinella Biirger finds the epithelium of the anterior part of the "Vorderdarm" very rich in gland cells, while the posterior part consists mostly of supporting cells with a few scattered gland cells; and in Cerebratulus marginatas he finds the same differentiation of anterior and posterior parts?
45 only in this genus the anterior glandular part is more extensive than Ihe posterior part.
Burger's own words, p. 250, are: ** Im Vergleich mit Carinella setzt sich das Driisenepithel der j\Iundhohle, welches dort ja ganz ahnlich wie bei Cerehratulus marginatus beschaffen ist, aber nur die Mundhohle und den allervordersteu Abschnitt des Vorderdarnis auskleidet, bei den Ccrebratulen weit nach hinlen fort Aber es fehlt auch nicht jener zweite Abschnitt des Vorderdarnis bei Cerehratulus, welcher sich durch seine Driisenzellen wesentlich von dem ersten unterscheidet und den Uebergang in den bei den hoheren Formen durch die Darmtaschen auch morphologisch von dem vorderen Darmabschuilt differenzirten Mitteldarm bildet Es giebt also bei Cerehratulus, just wie bei Carinella, einen iiusserst driisenreichen vorderen und einen auffalleud driisenarmen hinteren Vorderdarmabschnitt. "
In Zygeupolla the differences between the anterior and the posterior parts of the tube-like portion of the alimentary canal (Vorderdarm) are so great that in this description the two parts will be termed respectively the oesophagus and the stomach.
My reasons for this are partly for the sake of brevity and clearness, since the expressions "anterior part of anterior intestine" and " posterior part of anterior intestine" are lengthy and awkward to use; and partly to emphasize the very considerable differences in the structure of the two regions.
It is my belief that while the oesophagus is evidently derived from the ectoderm, the stomach, together with the middle intestine, owes its origin to the entoderm.
The term stomach is not altogether a happy one, since it at once suggests the " Magendarm" or stomach intestine of the Metanemerteans, which may have a different embryological history; and yet, on the other hand, the function of both is evidently digestive, and the resemblances in the histology very striking.
Both have a truly glandular epithelium, as will be seen by comparing the section of the epithelium of the " Magendarm" oi Drepanophorus latus, figured by Burger (1895), Taf.
27, Fig.
17, with the epithelium of the stomach of Zygeupolia, Plate XLII, figs.
32, 33.
Thei'efore, in Zi/geupolia the alimentary canal will be subdivided into the following regions (see fig.
1): (1) The mouth, 31.; (2) the oesophagus, Oes.
; (3) the stomach, S. ; (4) the middle intestine, 3I.I.
; (5) the end intestine, E.L (Enddarra), and (6) the anus, fig.
17, A.
The mouth, figs.
1, 16, 31. , is situated on the ventral surface of the body, shortly behind the brain, and about 5 mm.
from the tip of the head.
lu a passive condition the mouth is a small round opening, with crinkled edges forming a kind of circular lip, but it is capable of great ex])ansion, enabling the worm to swallow prey nearly as large as itself.
The tissue immediately encircling the mouth is conspicuous in life by its greenish hue, caused by the secretions of the numerous gland cells, figs.
16, 31, w., that are situated in the subepithelial tissue of the anterior oesophageal region.
A cross section of the body through the mouth opening shows that the mouth is lined with an epithelium of ciliated suj^porting cells resembling those of the body epithelium, but with longer cilia.
No gland cells could be distinguished in the epithelium of the mouth-opening proper, nor in the cutis beneath it.
In the semi-transparent living Zygeupolia the oesophagus and the stomach may be easily seen under a low power in a slightly compressed specimen.
The diflEerenl degrees of refraction of the two parts makes them easily distinguishable.
The oesophagus, fig.
1, Oes , appears rather light, while the stomach, *S'., is darker, denser tind of a more granular appearance.
It will be seen from fig.
1 that the oesophagus is rather shorter than the stomach.
These two regions do not pass gradually into one another, but there is a sudden transition which might be indicated by a straight line drawn at right angles to the long axis of the alimentary canal (see fig.
1), and sections show that there is an abrupt change in the cell elements.
In life there is an appearance of a fold at the beginning of the stomach, which probably serves as a valve.
Fig.
33 is a somewhat oblique cross section of the alimentary canal through the line of division of oesophagus and stomach.
The slight obliquity takes the section through both oesophagus and stomach; the oesophageal epithelium, Oe.Ep., being present on the ventral surface, the stomach epithelium, S.Ep., on the dorsal surface.
In the upper right hand part of the figure indications of a fold, /., are seen, where the oesophageal epithelium apparently passes over the stomach epithelium.
The beginning of the stomach has a constant relative position, occurring always in the same frontal plane with the anterior nephridial region (see fig.
1).
This fact is helpful in trying to find the nephridia in life.
The oesophagus extends backward from the mouth a distance of about 9-12 ram., according to the size of the worm.
The wall of the oesophagus, figs.
31, 33, consists of an epithelium oE ciliated supporting cells, S.C., and gland cells, GL^, about .023 mm.
in height, very similar to that of the epidermis (cf.
figs.
2 and 31).
The supporting cells are like those of the epidermis, only more slender.
The gland cells are flask-shaped, with finely granular contents that stain a bright pink, htematoxylin-eosin staiu.
Bluestaining gland cells are entirely absent.
Both supporting and gland cells rest on a delicate basement membrane, B.M., and some interstitial connective tissue cells are found between the bases of the epithelial cells.
At the extreme posterior end of the oesophagus some of the epithelial cells become much higher, but otherwise their structure is the same.
The subepithelial gland cells, that have been described above as giving the greenish color in life to the circular "lip" of the mouth, are present in great numbers immediately around the mouth, and less abundantly throughout the greater part of the oesophagus.
A group of these cells, w., is shown in fig.
31, from the anterior part of the oesophagus.
The gland cells are large, the cell bodycontaining a secretion that is probably fluid in life, but appears finely granular in the fixed preparations and stains rose red, hsematoxylin-eosin stain.
Some cells seem to have but one nucleus, others more than one, but the latter case may be due to the crowding together of the cells or to the presence of the adjacent connective tissue nuclei, so that this point has not been definitely settled.
The ducts, dt, are long and slender, and open into the oesophagus between the epithelial cells.
Farther back in the oesophagus these subepithelial gland cells entirely disappear.
The inner surface of the oesophagus is usually thrown into numerous high papillre, especially the ventral surface (see fig.
33).
The papillse are formed chiefly of hmgitudinal muscle fibres, but contain also connective tissue cells and the subepithelial gland cells, when they are present.
The papilla) come to an end together with the oesophagus (cf.
the dorsal and ventral surfaces of fig.
33).
A few isolated strands of circularly running muscle fibres, fig.
33, M.S., are frequently found beneath the papilla), partly encircling the oesophagus, but no continuous " oesophageal " muscle layer is formed.
The origin of these strands has been traced in some cases to the circular muscle of the proboscis sheath, in other cases to dorso -ventral fibres coming from the outer circular muscle of the body wall.
The change between the oisophagus and stomach is not only a sudden but a very marked one (see fig.
33).
Instead of the oesophagus, with its low epithelium and its great extent of surface caused by the high papillte, there is the stomach, without folds or papillse and consisting of a very high epithelium, about four times higher than that of the oesophagus, in which the large gland cells are the principal element.
The ciliated supporting cells, S. C. , are present, apparently in equal numbers with the gland cells, but are so small and inconspicuous that they are easily overlooked.
In fact, four specimens were studied before their presence was detected, and they were seen for the first time in an overstained specimen, where the deep blue stain taken by their cytoplasm and their ciliary bases was in strong contrast to the pink of the adjacent gland cells.
The gland cells of the stomach, fig.
32, Gl.-i, are large, measuring .087 mm.
in height and .011 mm.
in width.
The distal end is slightly narrowed into a neck, and the basal end into a slender process that is inserted into the basement membrane, -B.il/.
The cell membrane is very distinct, and the cell body is filled with a network of cytoplasm, in which are embedded large homogeneous secretion globules that stain pink with eosin.
Some slight color differences seem to indicate difierent phases in the secretion, and a few cells appearing lighter in color had evidently discharged most of their secretion.
The rather small oval nucleus, N., lies near the base of the cell, not far above the basal process.
Alternating with the gland cells are the small ciliated supporting cells, fig.
32, S. C. They have a small cell body, about .004 mm.
in width, cm a very long stalk, *S'^., the basal ends of which are inserted into the basement membrane.
The cilia are short and their structure could not be determined.
A surface view of these cells shows that there is one stout cilium in the middle of the cell, while the other more slender ones ax'e arranged in a ring around the periphery of the upper surface.
The stouter cilium may occasionally be seen in sections, and then appears slightly longer than the peripheral ones.
A few small interstitial connective tissue cells are present among the bases of the gland and supporting cells, and are demonstrable chiefly by their nuclei.
The basement membrane of the stomach rests directly upon the inner longitudinal muscle of the body wall.
The stomach is frequently greatly flattened by the pi*essure exerted by the expanded rhynchocoel.
For the study of this region, a specimen from which the proboscis has been cast out is the most favorable.
The middle intestine, M.I., according to definition, begins with the first pair of lateral intestinal creca, but the cells that are peculiarly characteristic of the middle intestine are not found in the most anterior caeca or pouches, which are lined by cells similar to those of the stomach.
In other Avoi'ds, the most anterior pouches of the middle intestine belong histologically to the stomach.
The transition from the gland cells and ciliated supporting cells, exactly similar to those of the stomach, that are found in the most anterior pouches, to the absorptive cells characteristic of the middle intestine is a very gradual one, and varies in different individuals.
In some specimens the transition begins in the second pair of cicca, in others it takes place farther back.
There is no abrupt line where gland cells end and absorptive cells begin, like the sharp line between the end of the (esophagus and the beginning of the stomach, but the gland cells and their companion supporting cells gradually become less numerous and are replaced by the absorptive cells that belong to the middle intestine.
Throughout the course of the middle intestine, here and there are found gland cells, fig.
34, Gl.i,, just like those of the stomach and the anterior pouches.
It is the presence of these gland cells, characteristic of the stomach, in the anterior pouches and scattered through the rest of the middle intestine, that has led me to believe that probably the stomach and the middle intestine have a common origin from the entoderm.
The fact that there is not a well-defined histological dividing line between the cell elements of the two regions, but a gradual replacement of the gland cells by the absorptive cells, is in confirmation of this opinion.
And furthermore, to return to the difterences between (esophagus and stomach, here we do find a sharply defined and sudden transition from an epithelium resembling that of the outside of the body to a truly glandular epithelium; also, the opening to the stomach provided with a primitive valvular fold.
Here is certainly the division line between ectodermal and entodermal derivatives.
The characteristic absorptive cells of the middle intestine, fig.
34, Abs.C, are long slender cells, about .14 mm.
high, rather flattened at the base and inserted by slender lateral processes into the basement membrane, B.M., and bearing several very long cilia, CIL, on the distal surface.
The cilia are about as long as the cell, and are inserted on a basal knob.
The nucleus is rather elongate, and is situated near the base of the cell.
The cell contents are of a variable nature; usually the cell is filled with a finely granular pink -staining substance, h?ematoxylin-eosiu stain, in which are numerous spherical masses that stain a dark red.
Other cells present a vacuolated appearance, as if filled with a foamy fluid substance.
Since the function of these cells is absorption, the different appearance of the contents should correspond to the different stages in the absorptive process.
Throughout the greater part of the middle intestine the cells are swollen with the food contents, and so closely pressed together that it is impossible to make out the details of a single cell.
All cell walls have apparently disappeared, and the result is a chaotic mass of cytoplasm filled with globules and granules of food, bordered by cilia on the side toward the intestinal lumen, and with a row of nuclei along the base, above the basement membrane.
The gland cells that have been mentioned as occurring occasionally in the middle intestine, fig.
34, Gl.i, cannot be distinguished from the absorptive cells — except by their absence of cilia — in preparations stained with iron-hsematoxylin, since with this stain both the secretion globules and the absorptive particles stain black.
With the hi3ematoxylin-eosin staia, howev^er, the differences are strongly brought out, the food granules staining a brighter red, and having a different degree of refraction from that of the glandular secretion globules.
It has already been mentioned that the two anterior pouches consist of different histological elements from the subsequent ones.
They are also somewhat smaller and are deflected slightly forward (see fig.
1).
In the more anterior part of the middle intestine, the ca?ca are but little deeper than the axial part of the canal, but farther back the cseca increase in depth at the expense of the axial portion.
In the breeding season, when the gonads are swollen and enlarged, the intestinal ctcca are under suchpressure that their opposite walls are frequently in contact.
Wilson (1900) believes that the lateral ca^ca do not function under these conditions, and quotes the statement of M'Intosh (1873), that " the glandular elements in the wall of the digestive tract undergo a certain amount of atrophy during the period of reproductive perfection."
Wilson adds, in respect to (Jerebratulus ladeus, p. 115: " For a long time, therefore, these intestinal pouches can function very little, if at all, and so they contribute nothing to the nourishment of the body."
I should be unwilling to state that the lateral pouches in Zygeupolia take no part in the absorption of food, for I have found some cells of the lateral cseca that evidently contained food vacuoles, in spite of the fact that the ctecum was greatly pressed by the adjoining gonads; but the cells of the creca are certainly under great disadvantages at this period.
• Toward the posterior end of the body (see fig.
17), the lateral cseca decrease more and more in size, until finally the intestine is once more a simple tube, Plate XLI, fig.
26, E.I.
This portion of the alimentary tract is variously termed the "anal portion of the intestine," the " end intestine" ("Enddarm," Burger) and the "rectum" (Coe, 1895 a).
The end intestine, as it will here be termed, in Zygeupolia is about .8 mm.
long.
The cells are the same absorptive cells that are found in the middle intestine, with an occasional gland cell, so that histologically the end intestine is the same as the middle intestine, and may be regarded as merely the terminal portion of that region.
At the junction of the caudicle and body, fig.
27, the intestine curves dorsally and opens, by the anus, to the exterior on the dorsal surface of the body.
The anal opening, fig.
17,^1., is small, and the edges are clothed with cilia.
10.
The Reproductive System.
— Zijgeupolia is dioecious.
The gonads, figs.
1, 24, 25, are found between the pouches of the middle intestine, metamerically arranged, throughout its length, the first pair of gonads occurring between the first and second pairs of intestinal CiTca, and so on regularly, the gonad of one side lying between two consecutive intestinal ca^ca, and opposite to its fellow of the other side.
Near the end of the middle intestine, about 7 mm.
anterior to the anus (see fig.
17), where the caeca become more and more shallow and finally disappear altogther, leaving the simple tube of the end intestine, the gonads terminate (cf.
fig.
26).
The Testis.
— The testis is a simple sac, the wall consisting of a one-celled layer of large, rather flattened cells with prominent nuclei.
In cross section, Plate XLI, fig.
24, the wall of the gonad appears like a membrane, along which the nuclei are placed; in tangential section, Plate XLIII, fig.
53, the cells appear elongated, dovetailing into one another, with strong cell walls which are wavy in outline, and granular cytoplasm that stains pink with the haematoxylin-eosin stain.
Each testis has a single duct, figs.
24, 55, T.d., opening on the dorsal surface of the body, very near the side of the rhynchoca'l.
The duct passes dorsally from the testis through the inner lougitudinal and circular muscle layers, and then expands into a bulb-like portion with slightly thickened walls, fig.
55, h, and again narrows before opening to the exterior.
The duct meets the body epithelium at the surface, and no bending in of the latter has been observed.
The youngest male cells are found at the margin of the testis, attached by their bases to the gonad walls, figs.
24, 57.
The youngest cells are the largest — .023 mm.
long, .005 mm.
wide.
They are rather pear-shaped cells, fig.
57, with the distal end rounded and the basal end prolonged into a slender stalk.
The nuclei, N., are large, with a prominent chromatin reticulum and one nucleolus, n. The cytoplasm is finely granular and no cell membranes are present.
From their size it is probable that these cells are spermatogonia.
They form a layer, one or two deep, around the periphery of the testis, and are occasionally found far in toward the middle.
On the median side of the spermatogonia comes a zone of smaller cells, arranged in radial rows.
These are probably spermatocytes.
Many of them are in division stages, and the tiny spindles are very distinct, but are too minute for any exact study.
In the innermost part of the testis the spermatozoa, Plate XLI, fig.
24, Spz., are found, and near them very small cells that are no doubt the spermatids.
The spermatozoa are about .06 mm.
long, and three parts may be distinguished in them, the head, the middle piece and the tail, Plate XLIII, figs.
58, 50.
The head is longer than wide, and is slightly broader at its posterior end.
It stains deep black with iron-ha3matox3'lin, and blue with hieraatoxylin-eosin.
In some iron-hsematoxylin preparations that had been strongly destained, the head appeared ashy gray with a minute black point at the tip, fig.
58.
The middle piece, m.b., is a four-lobed etructure.
In fig.
59 there is a middle piece that has been detached from a spermatozoan and which resembles four small spheres.
In side view only two of the lobes are seen.
The middle piece stains black with iron-hfematoxylin, and red with hsematoxylin-eosin.
The tail is a slender filament, in which no structure could be made out, many times longer than the head.
The Ovary.
— The wall of the ovary, like that of the testis, is a flattened epithelium, fig.
54, Gon.
W. No ovarian duct has been found, although several specimens of different ages have been examined.
It is possible that a duct may form in an older stage than those studied, but it seems more probable that the eggs are discharged by rupture of the wall.
The latter view is supported by the fact of the difficulty in keeping the body wall intact while studying living females with large ova.
When a perfect specimen was placed on a slide with sea water and covered, a method that was repeatedly used without difficulty for males, and for females with smaller ova, the posterior part of the body would almost invariably fragment.
It was also difficult to fix and harden a mature female without rupturing the body wall.
No especial importance was attached to these facts at the time, but since finding from the study of sections that there is no preformed ovarian duct, I am inclined to believe that the fragmentation observed in the female specimens w^as caused by the rupture of the body wall above the gonads, the break then extending farther around the body wall.
Closely pressed against the wall of the ovary and attached to it by their broad bases are the youngest egg cells."
Fig.
54 is a cross section of a portion of the wall of one of the youngest ovaries.
Although most of the smallest ova are distinct cells, here and there several are seen, so close together that their boundaries cannot be distinguished, and it is therefore probable that the ova arise from a '"As all the material exainineil was quite advanced in age, I liave had no opportunity to study the youngest stages of the ova, so that therefore the cells that are here describe!
as the youngest are probably well on in their development.
cell syncytium.
The smallest separate egg cells, O.,, are rather square, having as yet no stalk.
The cytoplasm is clear and slightly granular, with no yolk granules, and there is a delicate cell membrane.
The nucleus is round, about .0058 mm.
in diameter; a small nucleolus is present, but no chromatin is demonstrable, probably on account of admixture with plastin, and the whole nucleus takes a plasma stain, pink with hsematoxylin-eosin.
In the next stage, the young ovum, 0..,, has lengthened, the distal end is somewhat rounded and the proximal end more slender, so that the whole cell is now pear-shaped.
The proximal end constricts more and more until it becomes a slender stalk, by which the rounded distal end or cell body remains attached to the gonad w'all.
The nucleus has enlarged, measuring about .023 mm.
in diameter, likewise the nucleolus, in which scattered vacuoles are forraiug.
Yolk granules are beginning to appear in the cytoplasm.
After the appearance of the yolk the cytoplasm has quite a difierent look, being denser with the fine yolk granules scattered throughout.
The nucleus of this stage, O.3, is much larger, .035 mm.
The nucleolus has not increased much in size, but the small scattered vacuoles have fused into one large disk-shaped vacuole, n.vac, at the periphery of the nucleolus.
The ovum is now surrounded by two egg membranes, the outer of which, o.O.mh., is considerably thicker than the inner and stains blue, while the inner takes a faint pink, ha3matoxylin-eosin stain.
The formation of the egg membranes has not been followed with any exactness, but I believe that both membranes are formed by the egg.
Bohmig (1898) believes this is the case in Stichostemma gravense.
Montgomery (lo95) states that in S. eilhardl only the inner egg membrane is a " yolk membrane," the outer being derived from the germinal epithelium and is therefore a true chorion.
The oldest stage found, figs.
25, 52, is that of a free ovum iu the centre of the gonad, no longer attached to the wall by its stalk.
Both membranes are present, the outer one, fig.
52, 0.
O.mb., being often broken and discontinuous, as if it were about to be sloughed off.
This appearance, however, may be an artifact, as the specimen from which it is drawn was badly shrunken.
At this stage the gonad contains twenty or more ova of equal size, in such close contact with each other that they assume a polygonal form.
This is seen in fig.
56, a slightly younger stage, drawn from life.
It is likely that several or many ova ripen in one gonad tit once, and not one at a time as in many Nemerteans.
The cytoplasm of this oldest stage stains a bright pink with the hiematoxylin-eosin stain, and is charged with yolk; the nucleus is very large, its diameter being about half that of the cell, the greater part of its contents still taking the plasma stain.
The nucleolus is either one large rounded body, usually placed peripherally, or it is broken up into numerous small fragments, which lie around the periphery near the nuclear membrane, fig.
61, n. Several vacuoles of varying size are present in the nucleolus.
The attempt has been made to determine whether there is any priority in the ripening of the sexual products of either end of the body.
No difference in the respective ages of the gonads of the two ends has been observed in the specimens studied.
In any one immature gonad different stages may be found, the youngest cells lying pei'ipherally, attached to the gonad wall, the older cells toward the centre and free.
11.
The Caudicle.
— The caudicle, a term suggested by Montgomery (1897 a) as a translation of Burger's "Schwanzchen," may be defined as the slender, thread-like process at the posterior end of the body of certain Heteronemerteans."
The caudicle of Zygeiipolia in life, figs.
4, 5, 6, appears as a slender white filament, and a low magnification reveals a ciliated surface and what seems to be a quite regular segmentation.
A closer examination, however, shows that the apparent annular constrictions are merely the result of muscular contractions, and are constantly varying in size and position.
A light area along the mid-line, bordered by denser areas, indicates the presence of a central cavity — the blood lacuna.
In connection with the caudicle, a description of the position of the organs in the extreme posterior end of the body may be of interest.
The division of the dorsal blood vessel into two has already been mentioned, and the subsequent fusion of the four vessels into a central blood space; the termination of the rhynchoccel; the disappearance of the gonads and the dorsal opening of the anus.
A short distance in front of the anus the lateral nerves ^^ It will be shown in the historical review of the literature of the caudicle, that the structure described as a caudicle by Montgomery (1897 «) is in reality a regenerating posterior end.
assume a more ventral position, finally lying on the ventral surface of the body, Plate XLI, i\g.
27.
In this position they pass over into the caudicle.
In the caudicle, fig.
28, C.L.N., the nerves lie latero-ventrally, and extend to the posterior end.
The transition from the end of the body to the caudicle is also marked by the sudden disappearance of the cutis and outer longitudinal muscle layer.
This is seen in fig.
27, a slightly oblique cross section, that passes through the wall of the body dorsally and the wall of the caudicle veutrally.
A cross section through the caudicle, fig.
28, shows that it is a hollow tube with the following structure: (1) the epithelium, (2) the two lateral nerves in the epithelium, (3) the circular muscle, (4) the inner longitudinal muscle, and (5) mesenchyme cells bordering on the central blood space.
The epithelium is composed of ciliated supporting cells, fig.
12, «S'.
C, very similar to those of the body, but with a smaller cell body and longer stalk (cf.
figs.
2 and 12) ; large gland cells, fig.
11, lying mostly on the dorsal surface, the secretion staining red with eosin, with very large nuclei at the base and abundant cytoplasm enclosing the secretion ; and very numerous interstitial connective tissue cells between the bases of the epithelial cells, above the basement membrane.
The epithelium of the caudicle as a whole is slightly higher than that of the body, measuring about .04 mm.
in height.
The nuclei of the connective tissue cells, fig.
28, Cii.T.N., are so prominent and the cells so numerous that the effect is like that of undifferentiated tissue.
Biirger^(1895), p. 239, .says in this connection: " Es lasst der Reichthum an Kernen wohl keinen anderen Schluss zu, als dass die Zellelemente der Gewebsschichteu und des Parenchyms des Scliwiinzchens im Vergleich zu denen des Korpers ganz ausserordentlich klein sind."
The lateral nerves, fig.
28, C.L.N.
, lie in the epithelium outside the circular muscle layer, latero-ventral in position.
No ganglion cells could be detected around the fibrous core.
The circular muscle layer, CM., is reduced to a very thin layer of two or three fibres; the longitudinal muscle, i.L.M., is also a layer of but little thickness.
The central blood space, Bl.L., is bordered by scattered mesenchym cells, mes., large pear-shaped cells, attached at first to the muscular wall, but later floating freely in the lacuna.
'For the sake of clearness the great numbers of the connective tissue cells in the epidermis are not represented in fig.
28.
It is thus seen that the caudicle of Zygeupolia is a structure from which many organs of the body are absent, namely: the alimentary canal, the gonads, the rhynchocoel, the outer longitudinal muscle layer and the cutis.
The significance of the caudicle, however, is not clear, and several explanations may be suggested : (1) The caudicle has remained in a simple, primitive or embryonic condition, while the rest of the body has become differentiated.
(2) The caudicle is a degenerate structure, the degeneration of certain organs having begun at the posterior end and continued gradually forward.
(3) The caudicle is a coenogeuetic structure, with a certain physiological function.
Of these views, no positive proof can be brought forward in regard to the first two.
The varying complexity of the caudicles of different genera — for example, that of Zygeupolia and the caudicle described by Burger (1895; for Cerebratulus marginatus, containing all the organs of the posterior end of the body — might support the view of degeneracy, but this argument may hardly be used until we know more of the origin and phylogeny of the caudicle.
It seems much more probable that the caudicle of the Nemerteans has arisen coenogenetically, and an explanation of its mode of origin has been suggested by the comparison with a Rhabdocoel Turbellarian, Macrostoma hystrix Oe., described by Graff (1882), and figured on Taf.
IV, Fig.
1.
In this worm the posterior end is expanded laterally and provided with abundant gland cells, making an adhesive surface.
Graff says, p. 240, the body is " hinten in einen platten spatelformig erweiterten Schwanz ausgezogen. "
It would not be difficult to imagiue this posterior end becoming elongated and more slender, until it is finally a thin filament.
In a similar way the Nomertcan caudicle may have arisen from a posterior end, originally differentiated as au adhesive surface.
The observations of Johannes Muller (1854) and M'Intosh (1869) show that at the present time the end of the caudicle frequently acts as a sucker.
M'Intosh (1869) believes that the central space in the caudicle of Micrura purpurea is connected with the -circulatory system.
This, as stated above, is certainly true in Zygeupolia.
The fact that the large hlood lacuna occupies the entire space within the muscular wall of the caudicle of Zijgeupolia, and that the mesenchym — blood-forming — cells are very abundant, suggests that one function of the caudicle may be the formation of new blood cells.
This, however, also takes place throughout the blood vessels of the body.
The large blood lacuna of the caudicle is probably a means of aerating the blood, making respiration another possible function of this jiroblematical structure.
Literature of the Caudicle.
— The caudicle has been known in literature under various other names, and considerable confusion has arisen from the multiplication of terms, and from the fact that the caudicle, which is an adult structure, has been confounded ^vith the regenerating " papilla" so frequently found at the posterior end of Nemerteans that have been broken.
For this reason an account of the history and synonymy of the caudicle and the differences between the true caudicle and the regenerating posterior end will be given, at perhaps greater length than the importance of this small structure demands.
The following papers will be separated under two headings I, those describing the true caudicle; II, those in which other structures have been mistaken for the true caudicle.^' I. Ehrenberg and Hemprich (1831) describe the new genus Micrura with " anus sub caudo," and Micrura fasciolata nov. sp.
, " .
.
.
.
anus terminalis sub processu caudali parvo, albo."
Busch (1851) (cited by J. Miiller, 1854) mentions and figures, Taf.
II, Fig.
8, a Nemertean with a caudicle (" Schwanzanhang").
The worm is described under the name of Alardus caudatus.
Diesing (1851) refers to Micrnira Hemp, et Ehr.
= Nemertes Oersted, as with a " processu terminali postico filiformi brevissimo. "
He describes the new species Meckelia Knerii Diesing, ' ' corpus depressuni retrorsum parum augustatum processu brevissimo filiformi."
Dalyell (1853), Vol.
II, (cited by Krohn, 1858), describes under the name Gordius four Nemerteans that would now be '^ lu this review of the history of the caudicle some of the earliest and some of the most important papers in Nemertean literature are referred to, but no attempt has been made to give a complete list of all the observations on the subject.
recognized as Micrurce.
They are G. viridis spinifer, G. purpureii» spinifer, G. frarjUls spinifer and G. fasciahis spinifer.
Johannes Miiller (1854) reports finding a young worm within the larva Pilidium gyrans, and also others in the water which have a " Schwanzanhaug, " 'and resemble the Alardus caudatus Busch.
The latter is figured, after Busch, on Taf.
IV, Fig.
2.
Miiller says " Mit dem Schwanzauhang kann sich das Thierchen auf dem Glase anhalten und wie festleimen und ist dann schwer von der Stelle zu bringen."
He believes that the young worm within the larva, resembling the Alardus of Busch, is the same as Micrura faseiolata Ehr.
et Hemp.
Miiller also quotes a letter from A. Krohn, dated November 19, 1851, in which Krohn speaks of finding at Naples a young worm within the Pilidium yyrans: " Der Leib desselben ist liinglich oval, nach voru zu etwas verschmiichtigt.
Mitten am hinteren Ende findet sich ein ganz kurzer cylindrischer Anhang, der durch wenige aufeinander folgende Querwiilste wie gegliedert erscheint.
Die Oberfliiche des Leibes, so wie audi die des Anhanges ist wie bei den Turbellarien dicht mit schwingenden Cilieu besetzt. "
Krohn (1858), referring to the young worm within the Pilidium gyrans, says: " In Helgoland sah ich 1854 mehrere arteu von Pilidium Der Schwanzauhang wird an den mehrsten Nemertinen von Pilidien beobachtet, und wird nur selteu vermisst Die Nemertinen mit Schwanzauhang gehoren zu der Gattung Micrura Ehr., vioxmt Alardus Busch identisch ist."
On p. 300, Krohn gives a list of the Micrurce found in the North Sea, and an account of the synonymy of the genus.
Leuckart (1858) summarizes the work done on Neraerteans.
On p, 186 he mentions the " Anwesenheit eines retractilen Schwanzfadens " in a Nemertean.
Leuckart and Pagenstecher (1858) describe a new Pilidium, P. auriculatum: " Ein Schwanzfortsatz, wie er so hiiufig bei den in Pilidien gebildeten Nemertinen gefunden wird und nach J. Miiller auch bei dem Sprosslinge eines Helgoliinder Pilidium vorkommt, fehlt unserm Thier. "
Metschnikoff (1809) mentions the presence of a caudicle on the young worm within the pilidium.
This is figured on Taf.
X, Fig.
15.
On p. 55 he says: " Es bildet sich am liinterrande der jungcn Nemertine ein kleines konisches Schwiinzchen, welches 1901.]
NATUKAL SCIENCii;S OF PHlLADELt-HlA.
721 einen einfachen Auswuchs der Korperwaud darstellt, uud wie diese mit Flimmerhaaren bedeckt erscheiut. "
M'Intosh (1869) desci'ibes the following structure: " The posterior end of the body in Micrura {Stylus) requires special mention, since there is superadded a peculiar elongated and contractile style.
This appendage seems to be formed by a prolongation of the cutaneous and part of the muscular (longitudinal and circular) textures of fhe body wall of the animal.
The entire organ in contraction has a granular appearance, the coarsest granules and occasionally a few circular masses of brownish pigment, being at the tip.
Within these coats is a circular chamber, which undergoes various alterations in size, and contains a transparent fluid.
This cavity is not connected with the digestive tract, which opens by a terminal pore at the base of the process, nor can proboscidian discs be seen therein its connection with the circulatory [system] appears most probable."
M'Intosh (1874) says that the genus Micrura has " a soft filiform caudal process, capable of attachment."
He further alludes to " a pale caudal filament" and " a slender styliform process attached to the tail " which " can be elongated to an extreme degree. '
' Hubrecht (1887) used the term " caudal papilla " throughout his description of the caudicle.
Verrill (1893), in defining the genw?, Micrura, says: "Posterior end of the body provided with a median slender cirrus, above the anus.
This genus, as here defined, differs from Lineus in little else than the presence of a well-marked contractile anal cirrus, which may often be distinguished even in alcoholic specimens.
From Cerebratuhis, which also has the anal cirrus, it differs in the form and muscular structure of the body posteriorly. "
In other parts of this work the terms " anal papilla," " caudal papilla" and " caudal filament " are indiscriminately used.
Verrill (1895) employs the expression " caudal cirrus."
Burger (1895) describes " ein diinnes 5-15 mm.
langes, meist borstenartig starres, weissliches Anhiingsel," which he terms " das Schwanzchen."
On p, 24, in reviewing the work of Dalyell, Burger employs another term, saying that Dalyell " den Appendix beobachtet und gut gezeichnet hat."
46 Coe (1895 a), in regard to Cerehratulus lacteus, says : " The amis is at the end of the body, just beneath the caudal papilla."
Coe (1901) gives as one of the generic characters of Cerebratulus, ".
.
.
.
the posterior end extremely flattened and provided with a delicate caudal cirrus, which extends beyond the opening of the intestine."
Wilson C.B.
(1900) uses Hubrecht's term "anal papilla" for the caudicle of Cerehratulus lacteus.
Punnett (1900) speaks of a " caudal appendage."
11.
O. F. Muller (1788) describes and figures, p. 38, tab.
68, figs.
18, 20, a Planaria filaris : " Planaria linearis cauda filiformi contractili."
The length of the " cauda filiformis coutractilis " in fig.
20, equal to the length of the body, suggests the thought that it may be the evaginated proboscis.
Burger (1895), p. 8, says that this worm is probably a Tetrastemma.
Grube (1855) describes two new species of Mechelia.
The first, M. annulata, resembles the 31.
Knerii Diesing.
Grube thinks that the " processus terminalis " described by Diesing is more probably a regenerating end ; he says : ' ' Der processus brevissimus filiformis konnte ein reproducirtes noch junges Schwanzeude sein."
The second species, M. aurantiaca, has the following characteristics: " Der Korper verschmalert sich nach hinten sehr allmahlich, und endete bei einem Exemplare in ein viel diinneres, warscheinlich vor kurzem reproducirtes Schwiinzchen."
Montgomery (1897 a), Taf.
2, Fig.
16, has described as a caudicle what is evidently a regenerating posterior end."
The characters that make the structure described by Dr. Montgomery in Cerehratulus lacteus, and figured by him on Taf.
2, Fig.
16, a regenerating posterior end rather than a true caudicle are (1) the size, (2) the presence of the alimentary canal, (3) the presence of the outer longitudinal muscle layer, and (4) the presence of the three distinct blood vessels with definite walls.
The chief external differences between the true caudicle and the regenerating papilla of Cerehratulus lacteus are in size and general "My attention was called to this error by Dr. Montgomery himself, who has suggested that it be rectified.
Dr. Montgomery has kindly lent me his own preparations upon which the observations were made, so that I have been able to compare them with slides of my own, made from a Cerehratulus lacteus found in life with a good -sized regenerating papilla, which bore a short caudicle at its posterior end.
appearance.
The true caudicle is slender and thread-like, contractile and usually twisted; the regenerating papilla is stouter and rod-like, and does not twist and contract like the caudicle.
C. B. Wilson (1900) contrasts the two structures as follows.
On p. 116, alluding to the regenerating end, he says: " Such a papilla is slender and almost pure while in colour.
At first it it is difficult to distinguish it from the true anal papilla with which the body normally terminates, but it may be recognized by the fact that it always possesses a very broad base which fades gradually into the body wall, while the anal papilla is narrow and ends abruptly at the emargination. '
' The papilla on the Cerehraiulus found by the writer was about 7 mm.
long, light in color and rather rounded, not yet having assumed the typical flattened shape of the body.
At its posterior end a short, but in all respects a true caudicle was borne.
A cross section through this true caudicle shows that it consists merely of a thin body wall enclosing ia central blood space.
The body wall is composed of the epidermis, in which the two lateral nerves lie, and of the circular and inner longitudinal muscle layers.
The blood lacuna has no definite lining, but is bordered by numerous mesenchym cells.
From the caudicle of Cerebratulus lacteus, like that of Zygeupolia, the alimentary canal, the gonads and the rhynchoccel are absent.
A cross section through the regenerating papilla of my Cerebratulus has the same structure that is found in the section figured by Dr. Montgomery.
The outer longitudinal muscle layer and the alimentary canal are present, and three blood vessels — one dt^rsal and two lateral — instead of the central blood lacuna.
This proves finally that the structure observed by Dr. Montgomery is a regenerating posterior end and not a caudicle.
In both worms the end of the body tapers quite gradually into the regenerating portion, and it would be difficult to say where the old tissue ends and the new begins, as differentiation has evidently gone on for some time in the anterior part of the new tissue.
The most posterior sections of Dr. Montgomery's worm show that a true caudicle had likewise begun to form there, but had subsequently been broken off just at its base.
It is seen from the measurements of the two worms that there is an abrupt change in size between the end of the body proper and the caudicle, the caudicle measuring less than half the width of the body.
The diminution in size is due to the sudden disappearance of the outer longitudinal muscle layer, and to the ending of the alimentary canal with the body.
A word must be said here in regard to the relative position of the anus and the caudicle.
Verrill (1893) states that the caudicle of the genus Mlcrura is above the anus, and Coe (1895) says the same in regard to Cerehratulus lacteus.
From my study of sections of Micrura coeca and Cerebratulus lacteus I find that the anus undoubtedly opens dorsally above the caudicle, Nothing is easier than to confuse the dorsal and ventral surfaces of a living worm, but in serial sections, with definite structures for orientation, there can be no such difficulty.
The anus in Zygeupolia hkewise opens dorsally above the caudicle, and Burger (1895) states that the dorsal position of the anus is usual in Nemerteans.
From these data it seems likely that a thorough investigation of all species with caudicles will prove that the dorsal position of the anus is of general occurrence.
Burger (1895), p. 238, says in regard to the caudicle of Cerebratulus, Micrura and Langia: " Morphologisch stellt das Schwanzchen uichts anderes dar als das stark und meist plotzlich verjiingte hintere Korperende, in das sich von Organen der Darmtractus, die drei Blutgefiissstamme, die Genitaltaschen und die Seitenstarame fortsetzten, und in welchem wir auch alle Schichten der Korperwand bis auf die Cutis, welche giinzlich verschwunden oder in ihrer Ausbildung fast unterdriickt ist, antreff^en."
According to this all the organs of the posterior part of the body are represented in the " Schwanzchen," except the rhynchoccel, and even this organ, Burger states, is present in the anterior part of the caudicle of Cerebratulus marginatus.
The observations of M'Intosh (1869) in regard to Mici-ura purpurea^ those of Verrill (1893) on the whole genus Mier-ura, and my own upon M. cceca are contradictory to the above statement of Burger.
In like manner Coe's work upon the American species of Cerebratulus and my own upon the one species Cerebratulus lacteus show that the caudicles of these forms cannot be regarded as merely " verjiingte hintere Korperenden."
From the very limited space devoted to the subject of the caudicle in Burger's great monograph, it is likely that his study of this structure was hasty, aiid the question has arisen in my mind, could Burger have mistaken a regeneratin<)j posterior end for a true caudicle ?
Without wishing to criticise the statement of this distinguished investigator, it seems probable that a further investigation of the caudicles of the European species of Mlcrura and Cerebratulus will result in an agreement with the structure of the American species.
III.
Parasites.
A monocystid Gregarine in its adult form is frequently present in the middle intestine of Zijgeupolla.
Large cysts, surrounded by a thick cuticle and containing various developing stages, are also found in the iutestiue.
From their proximity to the adult Gregarines, and from their resemblance to the stages figured by different authors, it seems likely that these are Gregarine cysts.
Outside of the cyst, in the lumeii of the intestine, are small amoeboid masses, resembling some of the stages within the cyst.
These amoeboid masses also penetrate between or into the cells of the intestinal wall and probably into the gonads.
In some living specimens large white spots may be noticed among the gonads, fig.
6.
They are so large that they are easily seen with the unaided eye.
They appear stalked, like the ova, and have a large nucleus with one or more nucleoli.
Fig.
56, a horizontal optical section drawn from life, shows one of these structures in a gonad together with several ova.
In life the cytoplasm appears denser and darker than that of the small ova, and the conclusion first reached after studying these living bodies was that they were the oldest, nearly mature ova.
The examination of sections in which these large bodies are present has shown that the first conclusion was erroneous and has proved that they are the encysted stages" of some parasites within the cytoplasm of the ovum.
Fig.
60 is a transverse section through the body wall and the wall of the gonad, showing the cyst, surrounded by egg cytoplasm, ey., and attached to the gonad wall, Gon.
W. The cyst is surrounded by a striated cuticle, " CtL, and outside the cuticle is a delicate membrane staining like the cell membrane.
In the cytoplasm of the base are two egg ''' The reference line from CtL, fig.
60, only extends as far as the egg membrane, instead of to the cuticle within.
nuclei, N. The cytoplasm of the cyst has a very diSerent staining reaction from that of the egg, staining a faint violet with hoematoxylin-eosiu, and having a finely granular appearance.
The nucleus of the cyst, N.par., is irregular in outline, in some specimens with amoiboid processes.
It stains homogeneously a bright red, hajmatoxylin-eosin, while the nucleoli are darker and frequently vacuolated.
The presence of the additional egg nuclei in the cytoplasm at the base, of the cyst render it probable that the parasite entered the cytoplasm when the ovum was in a syncytium.
The presence of the parasite may have caused an abnormal growth of the egg cytoplasm, or the latter may have merely expanded with the growth of the cyst.
In its appearance the cytoplasm around the cyst is like that of the normal, uninfected eggs.
Figs.
48, 61, show two infected egg cells from a different individual, with amoeboid, probably earlier stages of the parasite, Par.
In tiiis particular worm almost every Qgg has been infected.
As a rule, the gonads of the male specimens that were studied were not infected, but in a few worms the testes contained large bodies that were evidently parasites, and that resembled some of the stages found in the ovaries.
The relation, if any exists, between the amoeboid masses found in the intestine and those within the egg cells has not as yet been worked out, as it is not within the scope of the present jjaper, but in consideration of the prominence of these parasites and of their position in the ova, this brief description has been given.
If sufficient material can be obtained for the intermediate stages, this subject may later be studied in detail.
The presence of adult Gregarines in Nemerteans has been known for a long time, and they are mentioned and described by several of the earlier Nemertean writers — Frey and Leuckart (1847), Kolliker (1848) and Johnston (1865), Appendix, p. 290.
I have found no references in literature to any structures quite similar to those found in the ova of Zygeupolia.
M'Intosh (1867) and Wheeler (1896) describe parasites that have a certain degree of likeness.
M'Intosh found adult Gregarines in Borlasia octoculata = Lineus sanguineus and Borlasia olivacea = Lineus gesserensis.
Besides the adult Gregarines, M'Intosh found what he called " certain ova that accompany the Gregarines. "
The "ova" measured about 5^(j inch in diameter and each contained an "embryo" that made evident movements.
They have two coats, an inner faintly striated and an external without markings.
The contained " embryo " is finely granuhxr and has a large pale nucleus.
M' Intosh regards these ' ' ova ' ' as altogether diSerent from the true ova of the Borlasia.
Wheeler found in the body cavity of the Annelid Myzostoma glabrum great numbers of amoeboid masses that he regards as possibly the young stages of some Gregarine.
The body cavity was distended with ova, and among them occurred the parasites.
He says: " In most cases the uniformly staining and rather shrunken body of the parasite was produced into a long fine point which had penetrated the cytoplasm of an ovum.
In a few instances a single amoeba had two points, each entering the body of an adjacent ovum (fig.
54). '
The cytoplasm of the ova thus attached contained large granules which took up the hsematoxylin with avidity.
These granules were larger and more numerous than those which occur in normal ova of about the same size."
The amoebae are also found outside the ova.
IV.
General Conclusions.
The description of the organs of Zygeupolia given in the anatomical section of this paper makes it evident that this genus is a primitive one and that it has affinities with both Protoand Heteronemerteans.
The questions now to be discussed are (1) the relationship of Zygeupolia to other orders, especially the Protonemerteans ; (2) the position of Zygeupolia within its own order.
The following characters undoubtedly entitle Zygeupolia to a place in the order of the Heteronemerteans: the position of the lateral nerves, outside the circular muscle layer; the presence of the cutis and outer longitudinal muscle layer ; the situation of the mouth behind the brain; the absence of stilets in the proboscis and of a blind intestine.
The alimentary system of Zygeupolia conforms with the general Heteronemertean plan, which, however, is essentially the same as that of the Mesonemerteans and such Protonemerteans as Carinina and Hubrechtia.
The blood system of Zygeupolia is of the Heteronemertean type, Huhreclitia being the only Protonemertean that approaches it ia any way, namely, in the presence of a dorsal blood vessel.
In the structure of the nervous system and the cerebral sense organs Zygeupolia is again a Heteronemertean ; but by no means the highest tj'-pe of brain or sense organ is represented, Zygeupolia having a very simple Heteronemertean brain and cerebral sense organ.
The presence of muscular crosses in the proboscis and its general structure are further characters in common with certain Heterouemerteans.
The absence of lateral slits is a primitive character, and one common to all the Protonemerteans and to the more primitive Heteronemerteans.
This character, as we know, is possessed by Zygeupolia.
The inner circular muscle layer of Zygeupolia is, in my belief, a primitive character, and the short extent of the layer is explicable on the grounds that the thickened region in front of the middle intestine is only the remnant of a layer that was once continuous throughout the body.
The presence of this muscle layer in a limited region in Micrura ccBca, and of a similar layer in M. alaskensis, Coe (1901), shows that an inner circular muscle layer exists in two genera of the Heteronemerteans.
The dorso-ventral fibres of the Heteronemerteans, regarded by Burger as derived from an inner circular layer, and the so-called "oesophageal muscles" ("Darmrausculatur") which, according to my view, are derived from the deflection and bending around of dorso-ventral fibres, are other evidences of the remains of an inner circular muscle among the Heteronemerteans.
The lateral grooves of Zygeupolia, if they are sense organs, may possibly be homologized with the side organs of Carinella.
Their position in the median lateral line of the body, and their character as epithelial grooves, both agree with the side organs; but until their undoubted sensory character is proved, the comparison should not be emphasized.
A brief summary of the structure of Zygeupolia shows that it is a Heteronemertean, on account of the presence of the outer longitudinal muscle layer, the position of the lateral nerves, the structure of the alimentary system, of the blood system, of the nervous system and cerebral sense organs, and of the proboscis; while the affinities with the Protonemerteans — and certain Heteronemerteans — are in the absence of lateral slits, in the presence of an inner circular muscle layer and of crosses between this layer and the outer circular, and in the lateral grooves, if souse organs.
The general simphcity of its Heteronemertean structure and the several Protonemertean characters bring Zijgeiqjolia very near to the Protonemerteans, and through Zygeupolia the whole Heteronemertean ordex is more closely connected with the Protonemerteans.
The question now arises, To which of the families of the Heteronemerteans does Zygeupolia belong — to the Eupoliida?, or to the Lineidie ?
'* The chief characteristics of the two families Avill now be giv^en, according to Biirger (1895): The Eupoliidce.
— (1) No lateral slits in the head, the cerebral canal opening directly outward or into shallow ventral furrows.
(2) No muscular crosses in the proboscis.
(3) The proboscis musculature consists of two layers, an outer circular and an inner longitudinal muscle layer.
(4) A head gland is prominent, the gland cells reaching back into the oesophageal region.
The Lineida'.
— (1) The canal of the cerebral organ opens usually, not directly outward, but into deep, or sometimes shallow, lateral slits in the head."
(2) Two muscular crosses in the proboscis.
(3) The proboscis musculatur consists of three layers — longitudinal, circular and longitudinal muscle layers; if any one of these layers is absent it is the inner longitudinal one.
(4) The head gland is represented by a few gland cells, and does not extend posterior to the brain.
^^In my preliminary note upon ZygenjJoUa ''1900 a) this genus is placed in the Enpoliidse, on account of the absence of lateral slits and the supposed absence of muscular crosses in the proboscis.
As I have since found muscular crosses in the proboscis, I wish to correct this error. "
Biirger's own words in regard to the lateral slits are here given (1895, p. 613): ''Der Canal des Cerebral organs miindet in der Kegel nicht direct nach aussen, sondern in tiefe laterale hoiiznntale Taschen, welche durch die Kopfspalten gebildetslnd.
Die Kopfspalten sind wechselnd tief : sie schneiden haufig bis auf das Hirn ein, aber sie sind auch, obwohl in seltenen Fallen, nur durch flache laterale Langsbuchten angedeutet."
The Lineidse are subdivided into the Araicrurse, forms without a caudicle, and the Micrune, forms with a caudicle.
Zygeupolia agrees with the above description of the Eupoliidse in one point only, i.e., in the absence of lateral slits iu the head.
The number of the muscle layers of the proboscis is the same iu both, but the position of the layers is reversed in Zygeupolia, the longitudinal muscle being the outer; the circular, when present, the inner.
It will be recalled that the circular layer is absent from the " anterior region " of the proboscis of Zygeupolia.
The structure of the proboscis musculature of the " middle region" in Zygeujiolia agrees with what Biirger evidently regards as the less common condition in the Lineidte, namely, in the absence of the innermost of the three muscle layers.
Muscular crosses are found in the proboscis of Zygeupolia ; but this is a very variable character, for different individuals may have a dorsal and ventral cross of equal size, a strong dorsal with a faint ventral cross, or a dorsal cross only.
The absence of a definite head gland and the presence of a caudicle are common to both Zygeupolia and the Micruran Lineidse.
The neurochord cells of Zygeupolia are an evidence of specialization, for hitherto these cells have been found only in highly organized genera.
It is evident that Zygeupolia agrees best with the exceptional members of the Lineidre — i.e., with those Lineidse whose cerebral canals open directly to the exterior, and from whose probosces the inner longitudinal muscle layer is absent.
When we therefore consider the position of Zygeupolia in respect to the Eupoliidse and the Lineidse, it seems to belong entirely to neither, but to have affinities with both.
It possesses the leading characteristic of the Eupoliidse, but all the other attributes of that family are greatly modified.
In general structure Zygeupolia comes nearest to the Micruran Lineidse, although it is evident that it must be regarded as an aberrant member of that family.
But is Zygeupolia a retrograde member of the Lineidse, or merely a more simple, primitive form in process of becoming more complex ?
It is generally accepted that the Eupoliidre are more primitive than the Lineidre.
Now Zygeupolia, in the absence of the lateral slits, possesses a character that is general in the Eupoliidse and exceptional in the Liueid^e; the number and arrangement of the muscular layers of the proboscis make a second character only occasional in the Lineidu>, and, finally, variations occur in the number of the proboscis crosses in ZijgeupoUa, a character that is constant in the Lineidie.
Therefore Zygeupolia, with one primitive character, a second corresponding to a reduced number of parts in the Lineidte, and a third that varies in different individuals, is undoubtedly a form in transition from a more simple and primitive condition to a complex state.
It may be regarded as the most primitive member of the Lineidse yet described."
In general external characters, Zygeupolia comes nearer to the genus Mierura than to any of the other genera of the Lineidse.
The generally small size, the body more or less rounded poste-" riorly and the presence of a caudicle are characters common to both.
To Mierura caca, Zygeupolia bears a most striking resemblance in size, shape and color, and the two can scarcely be distinguished except with a hand lens, which reveals the presence of lateral slits in the former and their absence in the latter.
The relation of the Heteronemerteans to the Protonemerteans is an interesting question.
The position of the lateral nerve chords is relatively the same in both, the outer longitudinal muscle layer of the Heteronemerteans being merely a later formation from the ectoderm (Burger, 1894), and the cutis glands being formed by the sinking beneath the surface of certain epithelial gland cells.
Lateral slits are absent among the more simple Eupoliidse, and I hope to have shown in this paper that an inner circular muscle layer, or its derivatives, is quite common among the Heteronemerteans.
It seems to me that the Heteronemerteans are very closely related lo the Protonemerteans, the Lineidai being connected by forms like Zygeupolia, the Eupoliidse and HuhrechUa, and that the Metanemerteans and the Mesonemertean Cephalothrix are widely divergent forms.
'* Since the above was written the new Heteronemertean, jll/tcre?
?a ?•«/« Punnett (1901 6), has been described as the most primitive member of the Lineida-.
But Zygeupolia, in entering the family of the Lineida% must assume the lowest position until an even more primitive form is discovered.
Within the last few years so many new Nemertciin genera have been found that we may look confidently lor further additions to the group.
lu regard to Carinoma, I agree with the view recently advanced by Bergendal (1900 b) that it is more of a Protouemerteau than a Mesonemertean, for its points of agreement with the Protoneraerteans are far more numerous than with Cephaloihrix.
Bergendal's suggestion to retain Hubrecht's broader order of the Palseonemertini, including the four families of the Cariuellidce, Carinomidoe, Hubrechtidse and Cephalotliricidse, seems a very excellent one.
This suggestion is based upon a comparative study of Carinoma and upon the discovery of the interesting form Callinera burgeri, a true Protouemerteau, in which the cerebral organs are absent.
In all zoology, as our knowledge advances and more and more new forms are discovered, the gaps between old and once widely separated families and groups are gradually filled and the results tend toward a more elastic and broader classification.
The view is held by some zoologists that the Kemerteans, on account of their general uniformity, are a comparatively recent group, so that a large number of the members are probably still inexistence.
If this is true, we may expect some day, when our present species are better known and all the intermediate forms have been added to them, to see our existing lines of classification laid aside, and in their place one broad comprehensive group.
Literature.
[The papers not seen by the writer are marked with an asterisk.]
1900rt.
Bergendal, D. Ueber ein Paar .sehr eigeuthiimliche nordische Nemertioen.
Zool.
Am.
Bd.
23, No.
617.
1900/^.
Bergendal, D. Bor ordingen Pateow^wer^/zi/Hubrechtuppdelas i tvjinne ordningar Friitoiieincrtini och Mesonemertini?
Kongl.
Vetenskaps-Akad.
ForhandUugar, No.
6.
Stockholm.
1900c.
Bergendal, D. Till kannedomeu om de nordiska Nemertinerna.
Kongl.
Vetenskaps-Akad.
ForJuindUngar, No.
5.
Stockholm.
1898.
BOHMIG, L. Beitiiigezur Anatomie und HistologiederNemertiuerna (Stichostemma grsecense [Bohmig], Geonemertes chalicophora [Graff]).
Zeit.f.Wiss.Zool.
Bd.
64.
1890.
BtJRGER, O. Untersuchungen iiber die Anatomieund Histologic der Nemertinen, nebst Beitriigen zur Systematik.
Zeit.
f. Wiss.
Zool.
Bd.
50.
1891.
BtJRGER, O.
Die Enden des excretorisehen Apparates bei den Nemertinen.
Zeit.f.
Wiss.
Zool.
Bd.
53.
1892.
BtiRGER, O. Wassind die Attractionsphihen und ihreCentralkorper?
Anat.
Am.
Bd.
7.
1894.
BiJRGER, O. Studien zii einer Revision der Entwicklungsgeschichte der Nemertinen.
Ber.
d. Nat.
Ges.
Freiburg.
Bd.
8.
1895.
BiJRGER, O.
Die Nemertinen des Golfes von Neapel.
Flora u. Fauna des Golfes von Neetpel.
XXII.
Monographie.
1897-99.
Burger, O. Nemertini.
Bronns Klassenu.
Ordnungen.
Bd.
IV, Suppl.
*185l.
BUSCH.
Eeobachtungen iiber Anatomic uud EntwickluDg einiger wirbellosen iSeethiere.
Berlin.
1895ff.
CoE, W. K. On the Anatomy of a Species of Nemertean ( Cerebratulus lacteus Verrill), with Remarks on certain oUier Species.
y'rans.
Connect.
Acad.
Vol.
9.
18956.
CoE, W. R. Description of Three New Species of New England Palaeonemerteans.
Ibid.
lyOl.
CoE, W. R. Papers from the Harriman Alaska Expedition.
XX.
The Nemerteaus.
Froc.
Wanhingion Acad.
Sci.
Vol.
8.
*1853.
Dalyell, J. G. The Powers of the Creator.
London.
1851.
DiESiXG, C. M. Systema Helminthum.
Vol.1.
Vindobonse.
*1847.
Frey, H., and R. Leuckakt.
Beitrage zur Kenntniss wirbelloser Thiere.
Braunschweig.
1882.
V. Graff, L. Monographic der Turbellarien.
1.
Rhabdocoelida.
Lei pzig.
1855.
Grube, E. Bemerkungen iiber einige Helminthen und Meerwiirmer.
Arch.
f. Naturges.
Jahrg.
21.
1831.
Hemprich et Ehrknberg.
Symbolai Physicre.
Animalia evertebrata exclusis Insecta percensuit Dr. C. G. Ehrenberg.
Berolini.
1887.
HuBRECHT, A.
A. W. Report on the Nemertea collected by H. M. S. "Challenger" during the years 1873-1876.
"Challenger" Report, Vol.
19.
1865.
JonxsTON, G. A Catalogue of the British Non-Parasitical Worms in the Collection of the British Museum.
1862.
Keferstein, W. Untersuchungen iiber niedere Seethiere.
Zeit.
f. Wiss.
Zool.
Bd.
12.
1848.
KoLLlKER, A. Beitrage zur Kenntniss niederer Thiere.
Zeit.
f. WiSS.
Zool.
Bd.
1.
1858.
Krohn, a. Ueber Pilidium und Actinotrocha.
Arch.
f.
Anat., Physiol, und wiss.
Mtd.
Jahrg.
25 1896.
Lee, A.
B.
The Microtomist's Vade-Mecum.
London, 4th ed.
1858.
Leuckart, R. Bericht iiber die Leistungen in der Naturgcschichte der Niederen Thiere wiihrend des Jahi es 1858.
Arch.
f. Naturges.
Jahrg.
25, Bd.
2.
1858.
Leuckart und Pagen.stecher.
Untersuchungen iiber niedere Seethiere.
Arcli.
f.
Anat., Physiol, u. iciss.
Med.
Jahrg.
25.
1869.
Metschxikoff, E. Studien iiber die Entwicklung der Echinodermen und Nemertinen.
3Iem.
de V Acad.
Imp.
des Sci.
de St. Petersbourg.
VIP Ser., T. 14.
1867.
M'Intosh, W. C. On the Gregariniform Parasite of Borlasia.
Trans.
R. Micr.
Soc.
London.
Vol.
15.
1869.
M'lxTOSH, W. C. On the Structure of the British Nemerteans and some new Biitish Annelids.
Trans.
R. Soc.
Edinburgh.
Vol.
25.
1874.
M'lxTOSH, W. C. A Monograph of the British Annelids.
Pt.
1 continued.
The Nemerteans.
London.
Ray Society.
1875.
M'Intosh, W. C. On Valencinia Armandi, a new Nemertean.
Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London (2).
Vol.
1.
1879.
M'lXTOSH, W. C. Marine Annelids from Kerguelen Land.
Phil.
Trans.
Roy.
Soc.
London.
Vol.
168.
1894.
MoxTGOMERY, T. H. Stichostemma eilhardi nov. gen., nov. spec.
Eio Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Nemertinen.
Zeit.
f. Wiss.
Zool.
Bd.
59.
1897a.
MoxTGOMEEY, T. H. On the Connective Tissue and Body Cavities of the Nemerteans, with Notes on Classification.
Spengel's Zool.
Jahrl.
Vol.
10.
734 [Dec. , I897i.
Montgomery, T. H. Studies on the Elements of the Central Nervous System of the Heterone martini.
Journ.
Morph.
Vol.
13.
1854.
MuLLER, J. Ueber ver.^chiedene Formen von Seethieren.
Arch.
f.
Anat., Physiol, u. wiss.
Med.
Jahrg.
21.
1788.
MiJLLER, O. F. Zoologica Danica.
Havnifc.
1855.
OUDEMAXS, A. C. The Circulatory and Nephridial Apparatus of the Nemertea.
Quart.
Journ.
Micr.
Sci.
Vol.
25.
1900.
FuxxETT, E. C. On a Collection of Nemerteans from Singapore.
Quart.
Journ.
Micr.
Sci.
Vol.
44.
1901a.
PUNNETT, R. C. Nemerteans.
Fauna and Georj.
of Maldive and Laccadive Archipelaf/oes.
Vol.
I, Pt.
1.
19016.
PuNNETT, R. C. On Two New British Nemerteans.
Quart.
Jonr.
Micr.
Sci.
Vol.
44.
1846, QuATREFAGES, A. de.
Etudes sur les types inferlenrs de I'embranchement des Anueles.
Ann.
des.
Sci.
JVat.
(3) T. 6.
1900a.
Thompson, C. B.
Preliminary Description of Zygenpolia litoralis, a new Genus and new Species of Heteronemertean.
Zool.
Am.
Bd.
23, No.
610.
19006.
Thompson, C. B. Carinoma tremaphoros, a new Mesonemerteaa Species.
Zool.
Am.
Bd.
23, No.
631.
1893.
Verrill, a. E. The Marine Nemerteans of New England and Adjacent Waters.
Trans.
Connecticut Acad.
Vol.
8.
1895.
Verrill, A. E. Supplement to the Marine Nemerteans and Planarians of New England.
Trans.
Connecticut Acad.
Vol.
9.
1863.
Wagener, G. K. Ueber die MuskelfaserderEvertebraten.
Arch.f.
Anat., Physiol, u. wiss.
Med.
Jahrg.
30.
1896.
Wheeler, W. M. The Sexual Phases of Myzostoma.
Mitt, aus der Zool.
Stat, zn Neapel.
Bd.
12.
1900.
Wilson, C. B.
The Habits and Early Development of Cerebratulns lacteus (Verrill).
Quart.
Jour.
Micr.
Sci.
Vol.
43.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES XL-XLIV.
All figures, except fig.
63, refer to Zygeupolia.
The outlines of all figures, except figs.
1, 4, 5, 6, have been drawn with the camera lucida of Zeiss.
The following reference letters are used in the figures : A., anus.
Abs.C, absorptive cell.
b., swollen portion of testis duct.
B.L,, basement layer.
P.M., basement membrane.
PI.
31.. muscle of blood vessels.
P. W., body wall.
b.k.., baoal knob.
Pl.f.
C, blood-forming cell.
Pl.L., blood lacuna.
C, caudicle.
C. W., caudicle wall.
C.L.N., caudicle nerve.
Cn.T., connective tissue.
Gn.T.N., count'ctive tissue nucleus.
Cn.T.S., connective tissue sheath.
Contr.
, contracted area.
Chr., chromatin.
Gil., cilia.
Ctl., cuticle.
Cu.Gl.-i, red-staining cutis gland cell — coarse type.
Cu.
Gl-iy, red-staining cutis gland cell — fine type.
Cu,.
Gl.2, blue-staining cutis gland cell.
Gy., cytoplasm.
C.-V., cerebral nerve.
G.
Org., cerebral organ.
G. Org.
v., cerebral organ blood vessel.
CM., circular muscle.
C.M.p.s., circular muscle of proboscis sheath.
Gil.
C, ciliated canal.
Cil.P., ciliated pit.
D.
Comni., dorsal commissure.
D.L., dor.sal lobe.
D.N., dorsal nerve.
D.V., dorsal blood vessel.
1901.]
735 D.m.cr., dorsal muscular cross.
Dl.
V-, dorso-lateral blood vessel.
(It., duct.
E.I., end intestine.
Ep., epithelium.
Ep.3I., epithelial muscle.
Bp.p.s., epithelium of proboscis sheatb.
Ep.m.f., epithelial muscle fibrils.
End.., endothelium.
Exc.d., excretory duct.
G. C, ganglion cell.
O.C.i, ganglion cell I. G. Cii, ganglion cell II.
G. Cm, gang ion cell III.
Gl-i, red staining gland cell.
01.2, blue-staining gland cell.
Gl.R., glandular ridge.
Gon., gonad.
Gon.W., gonad wall.
H.M., horizontal muscle.
H. v., head blood vessel.
i.
CM., inner circular muscle.
i.L.M., inner longitudinal muscle.
i.B.L., inner basement layer.
i.Ep., inner epithelium.
i.
O.mb., inner egg membrane.
f.
Cce., intestinal caecum.
L.O., lateral groove.
L.M., longitudinal muscle.
L.M.f., longitudinal muscle fibre.
L.M.p.s., longitudinal mu.
?cle of proboscis sheath.
L.N., lateral nerve.
L. F., lateral blood vessel.
I.D.N.
, lower dorsal nerve.
mes., mesenchym.
M., mouth.
m.b., middle piece.
M. v., median blood vessel.
M.I., middle intestine.
M.S., muscle strand.
N.J nucleus.
N.^, nucleus that has divided amitotically.
N.Par., nucleus of parasite.
n., nucleolus.
n.tiac., nucleolar vacuole.
n.p., nerve plexus.
Nph., nephridia.
Nph.D., nephridial main duct.
NpJi.d., nephridial ductule.
Oes., oesophagus.
Oe.N., oesophageal nerve.
Oe.NComm., oesophageal nerve commissure.
Oe.Ep., cesophageal epithelium.
Oo., ovary.
0., ovarian egg.
<7 ,, youngest ovarian egg figured.
0.2, slightly older than 0,.
0.3. slightly older than O^.
0.
O.mb.
, outer egg membrane.
o.Ep., outer epithelium.
0.
CM., outer circular muscle.
O.B.L., outer basement layer.
P., proboscis.
P.N., proboscis nerve.
P.S., proboscis sheath.
P.p., proboscis pore.
Par., parasite.
Pc, rhynchoccel.
Rd., rhyncbodajum.
Rd.m., rhynchodseum muscle.
Rc.Ep., rhynchocoel epithelium.
Rhb., rhabdites.
r.m.f., radial muscle fibres.
8., stomach.
S.Ep., stomach epithelium.
S. C, supporting cell.
Sec, secretion.
St., stalk.
Spff., spermatogonia.
Spz., spermatozoa.
1\, testis.
T.d., testis duct.
Th., secretions (?)
of proboscis epithelial cells.
T.B., terminal bulb.
U.D.N., upper dorsal nerve.
it.k., upper knob.
V.
Comm., ventral commissure.
V.L., ventral lobe.
V.bl.con., ventral blood connective.
V.m.cr., ventral muscular cross.
w., subepithelial cesophageal gland cells.
.v., intracellular ciliary prolongations.
A'(/., dorsal muscular cross of proboscis.
Xv., ventral muscular cross of proboscis.
y., attachment of proboscis to body wall.
yk., yolk.
s., bending out of fibres from inner part of proboscis sheath.
Plate XL, Fig.
1.
— Diagrammatic horizontal optical section of the anterior part of the body.
Fig.
2.
— Combined drawing of parts of a cross section of the body epithelium and the outer longitudinal muscle layer, from the brain region.
Gilsoa's fluid.
X 601.
Fig.
3.
— Ganglion cell IV (ueurochord cell), from the ventral brain lobe.
X 1120.
Fig.
4.
— Sketch of living worm, natural size and color.
This represents the appearance of the worm in extension; the posterior end is thin and flattened and the colors are dull.
The light colored median line represents the rhynchoccel.
Fig.
5.
— Sketch of living worm, natural size.
The worm is at rest, but not contracted, and the colors are brighter than in the extended s'ate.
The cross lines in the posterior part indicate the intestinal caica and the gonads.
Fig.
6.
— Sketch of living worm, natural size, at rest.
The white spots in the posterior part represent parasites.
Fig.
7.
— Supporting cell from the epithelium of the ciliated pit of the cerebral organ.
X 1120.
Fig.
8.— Ganglion cell III, from the brain.
X 1120.
Fig.
9.
— Ganglion cell I, from the brain.
X 1120.
Fig.
10.
— A cluster of ganglion cells of type II, from the ventral brain lobe.
X 1120.
Fig.
11.
— Two gland cells from the epidermis of the caudicle, in an early phase of secretion.
X 1120.
Fig.
12.
— Portion of a cr<)ss section of the caudicle epidermis.
X 604.
Fig.
13.
— A part of the circular muscle layer from the posterior end of the bo ly, in longitudinal section.
Flemming's fluid, iron-haematoxylin.
Gontr.
represents the contracted fibrillar areas which occur at regular intervals, with light non-contracted regions between.
Smaller contracted streaks may be seen half-way between the larger ones.
X 320.
Fig.
14.
— Two supporting cells from a cross section of the body epithelium.
Flemming's fluid, saffronin, gentian violet and iodine.
The stalks are relatively longer than in preparations from different fixatives, x. indicates the intracellular ciliary prolongations.
X 32U0 circ.
Fig.
15.
— Cells of the body epithelium and cutis gland cells, from posterior end of the body.
The blue-staining cutis glands of this region are much shorter than the red-staining glands, and both are smaller than the similar glands of the anterior end.
Gilson's fluid.
X 604.
Fig.
16.
— Optical horizontal section of the brain and mouth region.
The main outlines drawn from life and diagrammatized.
The blood system (in red) and the oesophageal nerve commissure are reconstructed from sections.
X29.
Fig.
17.
— Optical horizontal section of the posterior end of the body and the caudicle.
The main outlines drawn from life and diagrammatized.
The blood system (in red) is reconstructed from sections.
X 29.
Plate XLT, Fig.
18.
— Part of a cross section through the head, anterior to the brain.
The rhynchodajum, Rd., surrounded by four bundles of longitudinal muscle, lid.
in., occupies the centre of the section.
From the interlacing of the radial muscle fibres, r.itif., a layer of circular muscle, CM, is formed, which becomes the circular muscle of the proboscis sheath, x 70.
Fig.
19.
— Part of a cross section of the brain through the dorsal comtnissure, showing that the dorsal commissure in this .
"pt-cimen is composed of fibres coming from both dor.
*al and ventral lobes.
The attachment of the proboscis to the body w.ill is also shown.
X 70.
Fig.
20.
— Part of a cross section of the body through the ventral brain commissure.
The section is rather obliquely cut, so that the right and left sides are not quite similar.
X 70.
Fig.
21.
— Part of a cro.ss section of the body through the cerebral organs.
The section is quite oblique, so that its plane paKSses through the anterior part of the cerebral organ and the ciliated pit, Oil.P., but through the posterior end of the left cerebral organ.
X 70.
Fig.
22.
— rart of a cross .section of the body through the oesophageal region.
The anterior end of tlie uephiidial main diut, NjiIlD., is shown, and the large expanded \eutral blood connectives, V.bl.con., are very prominent.
X 70.
Fig.
23.
— Part of a cro«s section of the body immediately in front of the beginning of the middle iutestine, showing the inner circular muscle layer, i.O.M., and the dorsal and ventral nni.scular crosses, D.m.cr., V.m.cr., between the inner and outer circular muscle layers.
The much enlarged upper and lower dorsal nerves, u.D.N., I.B.N., are very prominent.
X 70.
Fig.
24.
— Part of a cross section of the body of a male in the region of the gonads.
The plane of the section passes througli one of the intestinal cscoa, I.Cae., and the narrower part of the testis.
The duct of the right band testis is shown, T.d.
The sexual products of this individual are only partly mature, most of the cells being in the spermatogonic stage, Spg.
X 70.
Fig.
25.
— Part of a cross section of the body of a female in the region of the gonads.
The oldest ova, 0., are free in the centre, the youngest are attached to the wall of the gonad.
Two encj'sted parasitic bodies, Far., are present in the left-hand ovary.
X 70.
Fig.
26.
— Cross section through the posterior region of the body, showing the simple end intestine, E.I., without lateral caeca, and the two dorsolateral blooil vessels, DL V., that have resulted from a forking of the dorsal vessel.
The gonads are absent from this region.
X 70.
Fig.
27.
— Cross section through the junction of the caudicle with the body; the upper part of the figure belongs to the body, the lower part to the caudicle.
The different character of the walls of the two parts is very evident.
The end intestine, -£'./., has a dorsal position, and is about to open into the anus.
Fig.
28.
— Cross section through the caudicle, showing the caudicle wall and the central blood lacuna, Bl.L.
The great numbers of connective tissue cells, Cii.T.N., actually present are, for the sake of clearness, only approximately represented.
X 320.
Plate XLII, Fig.
29.
— Portion of a cross section of the epithelium of the median blood vessel.
X 604.
Fig.
30.
— Part of a cross section of the proboscis sheath, about 1.8 mm.
in front of the beginning of the middle intestine, showing the origin of the inner circular muscle layer from circular fibres of the proboscis sheath.
The innermost circular fibres of the proboscis sheath bend outward at z. and run beneath the stomach, thus forming the inner circular muscle layer, x 240.
Fig.
31.— Part of a cro~s .section of the epithelium of the oesophagus, from the anterior region, showing the subepithelial gland cells, w. X 604.
• Fig.
32.
— Portion of the epithelium of the stomach, from a cross section.
X 604.
Fig.
33.
— Half of a cross secetion of the alimentary tract through the junction of the oesophagus and the stomach.
The upper part of the figure shows the epithelium of the stomach, S.Ep.
; the lower part that of the oesophagus, (Je.JEp.
A fold, /., probably represents a primitive valve.
X 320.
Fig.
34.
— Part of a cross section of the epithelium of the middle intestine from the posterior region.
The cilia are slightly diagrammatic, being usually massed together in fixed preparations.
X 604.
Fig.
35.
— Cross section through the "anterior region" of the proboscis.
X 320.
Fig.
36.
— Cross section through a portion of the "glandular ridge" of the proboscis, showing several aL'gregations of rhabdiies, lihb.
X 604.
Fig.
37.
— Tangential section of a portion of the proboscis from the " mid47 die region," showing the longitudinal muscle, L.M., with the subepithelial muscle fibrils above, running transversely.
X 004.
Fig.
38.
— Part of a longitudinal section of the proboscis, from the "middle region," showing the subepithelial muscle fibrils in transverse section.
The outer flattened epithelium is extremely thin.
X 1120.
Fig.
39.
— Part of a longitudinal section of the proboscis, from the " posterior region."
The outer epithelium, o.Ep., is composed of cells of considerable height, with abundant cytoplasm.
The subepithelial muscle fibres, Ep.m.f., are thickened in this region.
X 1120.
Fig.
40.
— Cross section through the "middle region" of the proboscis, showing both dorsal and ventral muscular crosses, Xcl., Xc.
The lateral nerves form a continuous plexus, n.p.
The glandular ridge of the dorsal surface is very prominent, Gl.R.
X 330.
Fig.
41.
— Cross section through the " posterior region " of the proboscis, some distance anterior to its termination.
The proboscis nerves are again separate, P.N.
X 320.
Fig.
42.
— Small "rhynohocoel corpuscles."
X 1120.
Fig.
43.
— Large cells from the fluid of the rhynchocoel, "rhynchocffil corpuscles."
The two nuclei, N., are probably the result of amitosis.
X 1120.
Fig.
44.
— Portion of a cross section of the proboscis immediately posterior to its insertion, showing the regular brick-shaped cells of the outer epithelium, o. Ep.
The subepithelial muscle fibrils are absent from this, the most anterior, region.
X 604.
Plate XLIII, Fig.
45.
— Portion of a cross section through the body wall, showing the excretory duct of the left nephridium.
Excel.
X 128.
Fig.
46.
— Portion of a cross section of the body, showing the left lateral blood vessel, L. V., with the adjacent nephridial main duct, Nph.D., and a ductule, Nph.d.
X 320.
Fig.
47.
— Portion of a cross section of the body, showing the right lateral blood vessel, L. V., into which project two terminal bulbs of the nephridia, T.B.
The epithelium of the blood vessel is not continued around the ends of the terminal bulbs.
X 604.
Fig.
48.
— Cross section of an ovum infected with a stage of a parasite older (?)
than that shown in fig.
(Jl.
X 604.
Fig.
49.
— Cross section of one of the dorso-lateral blood vessels.
X 604.
Fig.
50.
— Portion of a cross section through the anterior part of the rhynchocoel, showing the dorsal blood vessel.
The endothelium.
End., of the ventral wall of the vessel is very distinct, but that of the dorsal wall is interrupted by the proliferation of blood-forming cells, Bl.f.
C. X 604.
Fig.
51.
— Cro-ss section of the dorsal blood vessel after it has left the rhynchocoel.
A network of connective tissue cells, Cii.T.N., surrounds the blood vessel.
X 604.
Fig.
52.
— Cro.ss section of the oldest stage of an immature ovum, free in the centre of the gonad.
The thick outer, o.
O.mb., and the thin inner, i.
O.mb., egg membranes are shown.
X 604.
Fig.
53.
— Surface view of the gonad epithelium.
X 604.
Fig.
54.
— Portion of a cross section through an ovary, containing only young stages.
O.j represent the youngest ova figured, O.j and 0.^ older forms.
X 240.
Fig.
55.
— Portion of a cross section of the body wall, showing a testis duct, T.d., with an expanded distal portion, h. The longitudinal muscle layers of the body wall are not indicated.
X 320.
Fig.
56.
— Horizontal optical section of a portion of the posterior body region.
Drawn from life, showing gonads filled with ova between the intestinal caeca.
The large body, Par., in the middle gonad is the cyst of a parasite.
X 70.
Fig.
57.
— Portion of a cross section through the testis, showing the marginal spermatogonia.
X 6()4.
Fig.
58.
— Spermatozoa, the middle piece seen in side view and appearirg bilobed.
A minute point is present at the tip of the head.
Iron-haimatoxyliu, strongly destaiued.
X 1120.
Fig.
59.
— Spermatozoan, and a detached middle piece, m.h., which is fouriobed.
Iron-hiBniatoxyliu, not strongly destaiued.
X 1120.
Fig.
60.
— Portion of a cross section through the body wall and ovary, showing an encysted stage of a parasite, P*^?'.
The stiiated cuticle, Ctl., is surrounded by a delicate membrane.
Two egg nuclei, N., are to be seen in the cytoplasm at the base of the cyst.
'^ The nucleus within the cyst, N.Far., is amcEboid.
X 320.
Fig.
Gl.
— Cross section of an ovum infected with a young (?)
stage of a parasite, Par.
x 604.
Plate XLIV, Fig.
62.
— Part of a cro^s section of the body wall through one of the •' lateral grooves," L. G. The individual cells of the groove are not clearly distinguishable with this magnification.
95 per cent, alcohol.
X 320.
Fig.
63.
— Portion of a cross section through the body wall of Partipolia mii'antiaca Coe, showing the "lateral gioove."
The " lateral groove " is here everted, and appears as an elevation above the general surface level.
The cutis glands, C>i.G[.„ of the "groove" are large and ai e not found in other parts of the section.
X 40.
^'The reference line from Ctl.
only extends as far as the egg membrane, instead of to the cuticle within.
The following reports were ordered to be printed : REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT.
Upon the removal of the Academy to its present location in 1876, the President, Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, prepared a brief history of the institution, with a summary of its collections and publications, which appeared in the popular guide to the Museum in that year.
Subsequently throughout his term of office, Dr. Ruschenberger presented a President's annual report, the last appearing in the Proceedings for 1881.
His successors having discontinued this practice, there has been no summarized account of the operations of the Academy during the past twenty years, and it is my purpose, to present such a resume in the following pages.
During this period three members have occupied the President's chair, Dr. Joseph Leidy, Gen. Isaac J. Wistar and Dr. Samuel G. Dixon.
William S. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, Henry C. McCook and Arthur Erwin Brown have served as Vice-Presidents ; William C. Henzey, Isaac C. Martindale, Charles P. Perot and George Vaux, Jr., as Treasurers; George H. Horn and Benjamin Sharp as Corresponding Secretaries, while Edward J. Nolan has continued as Recording Secretary and Librarian throughout the entire period.
To the membership there have been added 505 names, while 374 have been lost by resignation or death.
Among the latter are many of the Academy's staunchest supporters, to whom her present prosperous condition is largely due, and many of her most brilliant students, who by their labors have spread her reputation to aU parts of the world.
During this period the regular weekly meetings of the Academy have been held, the attendance decreasing as natural history became more and more specialized.
Verbal communications of importance have been made both by members and visitors, and various explorers have by request presented reports of their expeditions before the society.
The specialists have continueJ to hold their independent meetings with most satisfactory results.
Of late years, by a mutual arrangement, the several Sections have been given precedence at certain specified meetings of the Academy, with the object of bringing before the general meetings the more important communications presented at the less formal Section meetings.
■ With the object of fostering and encouraging small scientific organizations, especially those composed of younger students, the Academy has freely granted the use of its halls for meetings, and during the past decade the Geographical Society, Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, Philadelphia Botanical Club, Students' Mineralogical Club, Students' Entomological Society, Myeological Club, Leidy Association, Philadelphia Moss Chapter, Wood's Hole Biological Association, Odontographical and Auti -Tuberculosis Societies and Pennsylvania Audubon Society have availed themselves of this privilege, thus bringing many people in touch with the Academy and eventually adding to its membership.
Besides these organizations, a number of State and National societies have, during this period, been invited to hold their conventions in the building, notably the American Society of Naturalists, in 1891; the Pennsylvania Veterinarian Society, in 1894; and the American Ornithologists' Union, in 1899.
The Proceedings and Journal of the Academy have been issued continuously since 1881, as previously.
Twenty-one volumes of the former and four of the latter have appeared, comprising in all 12,100 pages.
These contain contributions not only from the members of the Academy, but from eminent scientists from various parts of America and Europe.
During the past twenty years the Proceedings have been sent in exchange to a constantly increasing list of scientific societies throughout the world.
Beginning with the year 1900 the Academy, through its increased endowment, has been enabled to distribute the volumes to its inembeis, a course that had long been desired.
There have also been issued from the Academy and allied societies the Transactions of the American Entomological Society, the Entomological News, and the Manual of Conehology, while the Nautilus has been edited by the Conservator of the Conchological Section.
In 1885 the Committee on Lectures and Instruction established an annual series of lectures by men of eminence iu various branches of science, as well as afternoon classes conducted by the Academy's professors.
For both series a charge was made to cover expenses.
These courses were held annually until the w'inter of 1896-7, when a proposition was made by the Ludwick Institute, whereby the Committee of the Academy should cooperate with the Institute in an'angiug courses of lectures on natural science and allied subjects, to be given in the Academy's Lecture Hall and to be free to the public, though primarily for the benefit of public school teachers, the Ludwick Institute bearing all the expenses.
„ Under this arrangement six to eight courses of five lectures each have been given annually by members of the Academy.
The Jessup Fund, originally established iu 1860 for the assistance of young men fitting themselves for scientific work, has during the past tw^enty years aided many students, who have in turn rendered most important assistance to the Academy in the care and arrangement of collections.
In 1888, Mrs. Clara Jessup Moore established a similar fund of S5,000 for the assistance of young women, three having up to this time profited by this endowment.
From 1890 to 1899 a medal and cash payment were annually bestowed by the Academy upon the geologist who had accomplished the most meritorious work during the year.
Since then a gold medal has been awarded triennially.
This award, known as the Hayden Memorial, is secured by a fund given by Mrs. Hayden in memory of her husband, Dr. F. V. Hayden.
Up to the year 1900 the Academy's growth had far exceeded its endowment.
The funds at the disposal of the institution were entirely consumed in the expenses incident to supporting the museum, the publications and the library.
The salaried assistance was wholly inadequate to the needs of the institution, and, as previously, most of the work of arranging and caring for the collections was performed voluntarily or by students of the Jessup Fund.
Members had always been most liberal iu contributing to special funds for the purchase of collections, but the Endowment Fund, owing to the broadening of the work of the Academy, became yearly less adequate.
Since 1890, however, the Academy has received liberal bequests.
which have been of the utmost importance hi the consummation of plans for future development.
George S. Pepper, in 1900, bequeathed to the Academy S25,000 and a percentage of his residuary estate, the amounts to be held in trust, the income only to be applied to the uses of the institution.
The James Aitken Meigs Fund was erected on the legacy of John G. Meigs, of $20,000, and the library of his son, James Aitken Meigs, M.D., a former Librarian of the Academy.
Ten thousand dollars of this was left for the care and increase of the library and the remainder without condition.
From Miss Anna T. Jeanes was received the gift of $20,000, to be known as the Mary Jeanes Fund, the interest to be used for the care and increase of the museum.
In addition to amounts noted in earlier reports, S16,650 have been received from the Henry N. Johnson estate for the general purposes of the Academy.
Robert T. Lamborn, M.D.
, who died iij 1895, bequeathed his estate to the Academy, " to be used in biological and anthropological researches, the income only to be Uf^ed and the principal reinvested."
A question as to the validity of the will under the New York State law having been raised by the heirs-at-law, a compromise was effected on the basis of onehalf the estate coming to the Academy and the balance to them.
Up to the present time $365,000 have been realized for the society.
A conservative estimate places the value of the Academy's portion of the estate at half a million.
Charles E. Smith, in 1900, bequeathed his botanical books, maps, collections and one-sixth part of the sum realized from the sale of refjl and personal property, the interest accruing from such sum to be applied to and expended on maintenance and for no other purpose whatever.
Twenty -five thousand dollars have been realized from this source to date, with the certainty of important additions in the future.
As soon as the earlier of tliese legacies became available, steps were at once taken to broaden the work of the institution in various directions.
The Proceedings were distributed to members; the salaries of the scientific staff were increased; three new assistants engaged; improvements were made to the buildings; new cases were substituted for those originally erected in the museum, and important additions to the shelving capacity of the library were provided.
The work of expansion is still in progress, and to understand properly the advance that has been made it is necessary to revert again to the removal of the Academy to its present quarters in 1876.
At that time only a ])art of the building as originally planned had been completed, and the collections and library of the Academy even then practically filled all the available space.
The constant inci'ease during the subsequent ten years caused such overcrowding that the systematic arrangement of the museum became an impossibility, and much valuable material was practically inaccessible.
In 1889 and 1891 two appropriations of 650,000 each were secured from the State Legislature.
These sums, together with private subscriptions, made possible the much-needed additions to the premises.
The Lecture Hall was completed the following year, and formally opened on February 22, 1892.
Lectures previously given in the Library have since then been delivered in the new Hall, which has been furnished with a lantern and screen and seating accommodations for 350 persons.
The new wing of the museum was not completed until some years later and was finally opened on October 20, 1896.
Owing to the lack of funds only two floors could then be opened, and only a part of one of them was furnished with new cases.
Since then, however, new cases of plate glass with oak or mahogany woodwork have almost entirely replaced the old ones on these floors, as well as in portions of the old building, and the furnishing of the third floor of the new Museum is so far advanced that it will be opened during the coming year.
In the character and care of the various collections the greatest changes have taken place, mainly since the recent increase in our endowment, though in several departments the plans were laid and work begun several years ago.
The old idea of exhibiting every specimen has been dispensed with, and the need of study collections of large series of specimens has been recognized.
Large numbers of birds and mammals, especially types and unique specimens, have been unmounted and stored in moth-proof cabinets, free from light and dust, and their preservation insured.
These have been arranged in the study rooms, whei'e they can be easily examined, while still larger numbers of similar study specimens have been added by purchase and gift.
A corresponding arrangement of the mollusca has also been instituted.
The entire series of alcoholics has been removed from the exhibition rooms and placed in compactly arranged cases in the basement, where some 100,000 specimens are within easy reach of the student who desires to consult them, being at the same time largely shielded from the light, the great destroyer of pigment.
For exhibition there is being installed by the liberality of Mr. Clarence B. Moore a series of plaster casts of snakes, colored and mounted amid natural surroundings, which are far more instructive to the general public than the alcoholics that have been removed.
In the Botanical department the modern plan of mounting the specimens upon uniform standard herbarium sheets, begun some time ago, has been finished during the present year, with the exception of certain special collections.
The museum catalogues are the Avork of recent years.
In 1893 uniform catalogues were provided for all departments, except Entomology and Botany.
In some only the accessions since that date have beeu entered, but in the cases of the mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes and minerals every specimen has been numbered and entered in its respective catalogue.
In the case of disarticulated skeletons every bone has been numbered.
These catalogues are necessarily ouly accession lists, but a systematic card catalogue of the mammals has been prepared, showing at a glance exactly what the Academy possesses in this department of the museum.
The character of the exhibition specimens has also beeu much improved.
In 1892, a taxidermist was employed and all mammals and birds since prepared for exhibition have been mounted in the most approved manner.
A large number of mammals have beeu jn-epared during the past ten years, and so far as the larger forms are concerned, they have replaced the grotesque and faded stuffed specimens of earlier years, while a local collection of birds, mounted in groups, with nests and eggs, has replaced the old series.
The Academy's efforts of late years have been mainly devoted to the renovation of the museum, the increase of the collections and library, and the expansion of the publications.
Nevertheless, a number of expeditions have been sent out in its interest through special subscriptions, while many private individuals have contributed results of their explorations to the institution.
Under the former head may be mentioned the expeditions to Bermuda in 1888, Mexico in 1890, under the leadership of Angelo Heilprin; the Greenland Expeditious of 1891 and 1892; Prof.
Cope's trip through the fossil beds of the "West in 1893, and many minor collecting ti'ips.
Among private expeditions may be mentioned those of Dr. Benjamin Sharp to Hawaii and Alaska, Dr. W. L. Abbott to Africa, Dr. A. Donaldson Smith to Somaliland and Lake Rudolf, the Messrs. Faruum to Mongolia, while Mr. Alfred C. Harrison and Dr. H. M. Hiller are at present exploring Sumatra, partially in the Academy's interest.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore's archaeological explorations in Florida and Georgia ; the exploration of the Port Kennedy fossil deposit, in the years ] 894-96, under the direction of Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, assisted by Mr. H. C. Mercer; Mr. C. W. Johnson's expeditions to the Southern fossil beds, under the direction of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain, and Mr. Henry G. Bryant's expeditions to Labrador, Greenland and Alaska have also been productive of important results.
The increase in collections, especially since modern methods have been instituted in the Museum, has been so continuous and important that it is impossible even to summarize it in this brief space.
Some idea, however, may be gained from the statements furnished by several special departments.
The Ornithological collection, which was formerly regarded as the Academy's most notable department, contained at the time of Dr. Ruschenberger's last report 24,000 specimens; to-day it numbers 46,000.
The Conchological department since 1887 alone has added 30,000 lots to what was before regarded as the leading collection in the world.
Other collections have increased at nearly the same rate, as illustrated by 6,000 additions to the department of reptiles, mainly the private collection of Prof. Edward D. Cope, and one prepared by Mr. A. E. Brown; 14,000 to the collection of butterflies; the William S. Vaux Collection of Minerals; the Isaac Lea Collection of eocene fossils, for which we are indebted to the Rev.
Leander Trowbridge Chamberlain, D. D., and the Clarence B. Moore Archreological Collection.
Only passing mention has been made of the growth of the library, not because of any lack of development in this department, but because the Librarian purposes, in his annual report, to review the history of the library since the organization of the society.
The development of this important section of the Academy, it will be seen, has kept pace with that of its other departments.
The present condition of the society, in its museum, its library and the work of its Publication Committee, is most encouraging, and gives every assurance of future success in maintaining the high standards established by the devoted men who have contributed so much intellectually and financially to the advancement of science.
Sajiuel G. Dixon, Pre-ndent. '
REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The meetings of the Academy have been held during the year with three intermissions, due to the lack of a quorum on July 30, August 13 and September 17.
The average of attendance at the sessions that were held was sixteen.
Verbal communications were made by Messrs. Rand, Rhoads, Pilsbry, Arthur E. Brown, Harshberger, Woolmau, MacElwee, Sharp, Chapman, Dixon, Roseberger, U. C. Smith, Skinner, J. Cheston Morris, T. H. Montgomery, Calvert, Conklin, Seiss, Gerson, Keeley, J. P. Moore, Goldsmith, Lyman, Keller, Murlin^ Stone, Palmer, Kraemer, Crawley, S. Brown, Ravenel and McCarthy.
Interesting discussion occasionally followed these communications, the substance of which was frequently embodied in the more formal papers presented later for publication, hence but few of the verbal contributions to the meetings have been prepared for the published Proceedings.
Seven hundred and thirty pages of the Proceedings, with thirtyfour plates, have been issued since the last report.
The fourth number, or the conclusion of the eleventh volume of the Journal, consisting of ninety-eight pages, copiously illustrated by text figures, was also published, the expense of printing and il lustrations being defrayed by Mr. Clarence B. Moore, to whom the Academy is again indebted for this proof of his continued interest.
The Eatomological Section (American Entomological Society) has published two hundred and seventy six pages of the Transactions with ten plates and three hundred and twenty-eight pages of the Entomological News with thirteen plates.
The Manual of Conchology has been continued under the auspices of the Conchological Section, two hundred and seventy-one pages and sixty plates having been issued during the year.
The published contributions to science by the Academy and its Sections during the year amount, therefore, to 1703 pages and 117 plates.
The statistics of distribution are as follows : Proceedings, delivered to members, 548 " exchanged for other publications, .
.
.
.
574 ' ' sent to subscribers, .
.
40 1,162 Journal, exchanges, 68 " subscribers, 34 102 The published edition of the Proceedings is 1,500; of the Journal, 500.
Fifty-six papers have been presented for publication during the year, as follows: Henry A. Pilsbry, 10; Henry W. Fowler, 6; James A. G. Rehn, 4; John W. Harshberger, 4; Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., 3; Clarence B. Moore, 2; T. D. A. Cockerell, 2; Arthur E. Brown, 2; Adele M. Fielde, 2; S. N. Rhoads, 1; Helen T. Higgins, 1; A. E. Ortmann, 1; Walter M. Rankin, 1; Edward G. Vanatta, 1 ; Henry Fox, 1 ; George and AVilliam S. Vaux, 1: Thomas Meehan, 1; Henry C. Chapman, 1; Caroline B. Thompson, 1; Ida A. Keller, 1; Henry Kraemer, 1; Benjamin H, Smith, 1 ; A.. M. Reese, 1 ; M. Louise Nichols, 1 ; Harold Heath and M. H. Spauldiug, 1 ; Carrie B. Aaron, 1 ; Thomas L. Casey, 1; C. W. Johnson and A. W. Grabau, 1; E. Goldsmith, 1 ; Nathan Banks, 1.
Forly-seven of these have been printed in the Proceedings, two in the Journal, three were withdrawn by the authors, one was returned to the author, one was transferred to the Entomological Section, and two await action.
A communication from F. Rynchowski, of Lemberg, embodying his researches on the " Electroid (Eceroid) " was, with the author's consent, referred to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
The first year of the new century sees the completion of the fifty-third volume of the Proceedings and the eleventh volume of the quarto or second series of the Journal.
The first series in octavo, in eight volumes, extended from 1817 to 1842.
The Academy's entire serial contributions to science, therefore, now consists of seventy-two volumes.
The earlier issues, especially, formed almost tbe only means by which the working naturalists of America could communicate with those of kindred interests elsewhere, and much of the results of the original investigations of Say, Ord, LeSeuer, Nuttall, Maclure, Horner, Mitchell, Rafiuesque.
Lea, Hentz, Troost, Vanuxem, De Schweinitz and many others of the leading naturalists of America are to be found in these volumes.
An index to this collection of scientific papers is manifestly desirable, and would j^robably be regarded by students as a valuable aid in their work.
The present time is especially appropriate for its publication, because it would not only form a guide to all that the Academy has given to the world during the last century, but it would be continued without break or repetition by the proposed index to scientific literature which is about to be prepared under the auspices of the Royal Society of London, as the result of international cooperation.
The compilation is recommended of an index that will be a complete and reliable guide to the contents of the Academy's serial publications, consisting of perhaps three sections devoted to author, subject and species entries.
It does not seem desirable in the course of the work to attempt the decision of questions of priority or the determination of synonymy.
Fourteen members and five correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of five members and six correspondents have been announced and the following members have resigned: Edw.
H. Coates, Robert S Davis, Edw, Gideon, William DeCou, Vickers Oberholzer, A. H. Stewart, W. E. Barrows and Thomas Stesvardson.
A severe loss was sustained in the death, November 19, of Mr. Thomas Meehan, whose conscientious devotion to the welfare of the Academy, and especially of its Botanical department, during more than for(y years of membership, is warmly appreciated by his associates.
A minute embodying the Academy's sense of its loss has been published in the Proceedings and a biographical notice, to be read at an early meeting, is in course of preparation by Dr. John MacFarlane.
A reception was tendered to Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, to whom the Academy is indebted for valuable additions to the Museum, on his last return from Africa.
The occasion was enjoyed by many who were interested in Dr. Smith's work as an explorer.
The President has appointed Mr. Clarence B. Moore a?
a representative of the Academy to serve on the General Committee of x\rrangements for the International Congress of Americanists to be held in New York next year.
Messrs. Vaux, Nolan, Wistar, Roberts and Schaeffer have been appointed a committee to consider and report on the subject of memorial tablets to contain the names of benefactors of the Academy, and to be placed at the entrance to the Museum.
All of which is respectfully submitted, Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
During the past year, there have been received from ninety-five societies, museums, libraries, etc., one hundred and sixty-three acknowledgments of the publications of the Academy, and from thirty-seven societies, libraries, etc., fifty-two notices of transmission of their publications.
Fourteen applications for exchange of publications and for supplies of deficiencies, together with six circulars and invitations for the Academy to participate in congresses, etc., and five announcements of the deaths of scientific men, have also been received.
Four correspondents have been elected during the year, and the deaths of six have been recoi'ded.
Six letters on miscellaneous subjects have been received and eleven written.
752 [Dec, Seven hundred and one acknowledgments of gifts to the library and museum and three diplomas to correspondents have been mailed.
Respectfully sabmitted, Benj.
Sharp, Corresponding Secretary.
KEPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
The growth of the Library, as far as the ordinary current accessions are concerned, has been unprecedented during the past year.
A total of 6,184 additions have been received, classified and catalogued; 4,678 of these are pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 1,380 are complete volumes, 124 maps, and one photograph.
Thev have been received from the following sources: Societies, .... 2,293 I. V. Williamson Fund, 1,309 Editors, 861 General Fund, .... 846 Authors, 169 U. S. Department of the Interior, 160 Meigs Fund, .
.
.
.
145 U. S. Department of Agriculture, 121 Wilson Fund, .... 37 U. S. Department of State, 16 Special Exchange, .
.
27 Geological Surv^ey of New Jersey, 11 Ministere des Travaux Publics, France, Albert I, Prince of Monaco, Pennsylvania State Library, Royal Geographical Society, London, 11 9 Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada, .... Library of Congress, H. C. Chapman, .
Thomas Meehan, .
Henry G. Bryant, Comite Geologique Russe, Kommissiou zur wissenschaft lichen Untersuchungen der deutschen Meere in Kiel und der Biologischen Anstalt auf Helgoland, .
Pauline L. Neidhard, Geological Survey of India, William J.
Fox, .
Department of ]\Iines (Geological Survey), Victoria, H. A. Pilsbry, .
.
.
Biuroului Geologicu, Rou1901.]
Maryland Geological Survey, Trustees of British Museum, Department of Mines, New South Wales, .
.
U. S. Treasury Department, U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries, .
.
.
Conch ological Section, Academy, .... Geological and Natural History Survey, Minnesota, U. S. War Department .
U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, U.
S, Board on Geographical Names, .... Koyal Swedish Academy of Sciences, .... 'sLands Plantentuin, Java, Department of Mines, Nova Scotia, .... Bentham Trustees, Kew Gardens, Comission Geologica.
Mexico, Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Basel (special).
Academic des Science de Cracovie (special), Trustees of Indian Museum, Botanical Survey of India, Geological and Natural History Survey, Wisconsin, 48 75.3 Mrs. Jonas Gilman Clark, 1 Government of Uruguay, 1 Geological Survey of Michigan, .... 1 Commissioners of Inland Fisheries and Game, Massachusetts, ... 1 Department of Agriculture, Cape of Good Hope, 1 Samuel G. Dixon, .
.
1 Smithsonian Institution, .
1 Financial Publishing Co., Philadelphia, ... 1 Geological Survey of Georgia, Government of India, R. Academia di Ciencias, etc., Barcelona, .
E. R. Sykes, .... Council of the Fridtjof Nansen Fund for the Advancement of Science, 1 Geological Survey of Missouri, 1 Bergeu's Museum, ... 1 A. W. Vogdes, ... 1 California State Mining Bureau, 1 K. Akaderaie der Wissenschaf ten, Wien (special), '^1 Department of Geology, etc., Indiana, ... 1 W. N. Newton, ... 1 Illinois State Board of Labor, 1 Messrs. Werner and Swasey, 1 754 [Dec, Madras Government Museum, 1 Home Secretary's Office, Queensland, .... 1 Hungarian Central Bureau for Ornithology, , .
1 Geological Survey of Iowa, 1 Commission des Travaux G^ologiqucs, Portugal, .
1 Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum, 1 Edward J. Nolan, Societe HoUandaisc des Sciences (special), .
Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia (special), Royal Society of Denmark (special), .
.
.
.
Geological Survey of Alabama, Department of Marine and Fisheries, Canada, They were distributed to the several departments of the library, as follows: Journals, .... 4,866 Geography, .
.
28 Geology, .... 345 Ichthyology, 21 Botany, 282 Medicine, 16 General Natural History 146 Mammalogy, 14 Voyages and Travels, 76 Physical Science, 13 Agriculture, 67 Bibliography, .
13 Encyclopaedias, 47 Helminthology, 12 Entomology, 44 Mineralogy, 10 Anatomy and Physiology 41 Chemistry, .
7 Ornithology, .
.
.
39 Herpetology, 6 Conchology, 34 Mathematics, .
1 Anthropology, .
28 Miscellaneous, .
28 Fourteen hundred and seventy-two volumes have been bound, making a noticeable improvement in the library, especially in the department of periodicals.
Only those who have been compelled to consult unbound sets of journals, the numbers unavoidably mixed and the indexes probably misplaced, can appreciate the comfort of working with volumes bound to date.
Large appropriations for the work arc still required, nearly three thousand volumes in the department of periodicals alone still requiring binding, but it is a cause of sincere congratulation that they will now be handled as rapidly as the necessary collation will permit.
An important addition to the cases has been provided in the central entresol room, relieving for the present the pressure on some of the more crowded sectionvS of the periodicals.
The growth of the library in this department, as indeed in all the others, is likely to be so rapid in the future, in view of the comparatively liberal appropriations which can now be made, that the question of additional shelving and room for its accommodation will soon become a pressing one.
Another important need is a case for the arrangement and storage of maps, the necessity of which was brought to the attention of the Academy as early as 1889.
Among the more important accessions of the past year have been a number of early sets of journals secured from the catalogues of second-hand dealers.
As the Academy has special reason to set store by what is believed to be its well-nigh unequaled collection of journals and transactions, it is desirable that desiderata be secured as promptly as possible, as the opportunities of doing so are yearly becoming fewer because of the very liberal means at the disposal of many scientific libraries recently started and the vigor of their administration.
The Academy has had the advantage of being early in the field, and, though having no means of its own for many years, the devotion of William Maclure and Thomas B. Wilson secured for it bibliographical treasures which can no longer be bought.
A list of the serials now received in exchange or subscribed for is appended.
The works on Philology have been selected from the Meigs Library and from the department of Anthropology, and uow^ form a separate section containing 296 volumes.
The card catalogue is being carefully revised and certain unavoidable duplications and irregularities are being corrected.
A portrait of the late Thomas Meehan, in oil, by James L. Wood, was presented by Mr. Chai-les Roberts in May.
While it has distinct value as a work of art, it forms a most desirable memorial of the senior Vice-President, whose recent death is referred to elsewhere.
Dr. John G. LeConte presented a crayon portrait of Mr. Charles E. Smith, a benefactor whose death was announced last year.
The picture has been placed in the herbarium.
The present extent of the library, determined by a careful count, is as follows : 756 [Dec, Journals Geology General Natural History .
.
.
.
Botany Voyages and Travels Anatomy and Physiology .
.
.
.
Entomology Anthropology , .
.
.
Conchology Medicine Ornithology Encyclopedias, Dictionaries, etc , Physical Sciences Mineralogy Mathematics Bibliography Geography Agriculture 23,007 3,039 2,860 2,429 1,870 1,719 1,207 1,120 1,073 903 863 816 630 554 551 428 421 407 Ichthyology 323 Mammalogy 304 Miscellaneous 299 Philology 296 Helniinthology 295 Chemistry 275 Herpetology 186 Meigs Library (miscellaneous) 1,916 Warner Library (miscellaneous) 128 American Entomological Society Library (Entomological Section) ■ 3,160 Unbound pamphlets, 2524, forming volumes 170 51,249 In considering the growth of the library since the last enumeration, it must be remembered that about 450 volumes, bibliographical and non-scientific, have been, by direction of the Council and the Library Committee, transferred to the Free Library, Many of the works in the library of the Entomological Section (American Entomological Society) are duplicates, while those in the James Aitken Meigs Library are foreign to the purposes of the Academy, being retained under an agreement with the legatee.
It may not be out of place, at the beginning of the new ceutur}", to review briefly the history of the library, so as to determine with some degree of clearness what has been accomplished by this department of the Academy during its ninety years of existence.
It will be remembered that on the evening of January 25, 1812, " a meeting of gentlemen, friends of science and of rational disposal of leisui'e moments," was held to consider the advisability o£ forming a scientific society.
After mature deliberation it was decided that such a society was desirable, and preliminary steps were taken toward its organization.
The men who met on that occasion took themselves with entire seriousness, as is evidenced by the dignified wording of the minutes and the care with which they were kept by the fii-st Recording Secretary, Dr. Camillus McMahau Mann.
They evidently attached due importance to the formation 1901.]
NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA.
757 of a library, for a committee consistiDg of Messrs. Troost and Shiun was appointed to consider, among other weighty matters, " which are the fittest periodical works to engage in the first instance for the accommodation of the society."
No report seems to have been received from this, the first Library Committee, but under date of March 17 of the same year, a memorandum records tliat " Mr. Shinn will accommodate the society with the Mlneralogical Journal of Dr. Bruce ; Mr. Speakman will furnish the National Intelligencer ; Dr. Parmentier, the Aurora and a map of Switzerland; Dr. Mann, the Monthly Magazine for 1807.
Drs.
Troost and Parmentier have engaged for account of the society the Annales de Chymie and the Annales des Arts et de Commerce.
Mr. Shinn is commissioned to procure for account of the society the Archives of Useful Knoivledge of Dr. Mears, and the Medical Museum of Drs.
Mitchell and Millar.
Agreed to procure the Repertory of Arts from London."
On April 18, " the Secretary makes homage to the Academy of The Bureau, weekly newspaper recently commenced, which he has subscribed for. "
A.t the same meeting it was "referred to the Committee to purchase at least one portfolio, for the purpose of depositing extracts from newspapers announcing recent discoveries and extraordinary facts, with a view to have them afterward arranged in a proper book and inquiries instituted thereupon."
The Secretary was requested " to procure a report of Prof. Davy of the Loudon Institution's lectures lately delivered on the subject of Zoology."
He was also requested " to procure report on Prof. Davy's experiments and conclusions on the subject of the oxymuriatic acid, and to require report from Dr. Mitchell at time of writing to that gentleman his letter of notification."
It was ordered, Mr. Troost seeming to have dropped out, " that Mr. Shinn be requested to make his report on the periodical works eligible for the Academy, and if possible to procure the latest number of Nicholson's Journal.''
Then more definitely, on August 15, the Secretary was " required to obtain the following works on science : Nicholson' s Journal from the commencement of the year 1810; a periodical work said to be conducted by Dr. Thompson, of London, from its commencement; Repertory of Arts from the beginning of 1810; Murray's Chemistry, last edition; Thompson's Chemistry, edition of 1810, if none since published; Davies' Elements of Chemistry; Tilloch's Magazine from the beginning of 1810; best comparative statement of the experiments relative to the oxymuriatic acid."
These are the brief records concerning the library in the earliest minutes of the Academy.
It will be seen that they all relate to intentions for the future, except in the one case where the Secretary " makes homage" or presents The Bureau, a periodical for which he had recently subscribed, and of this, curiously enough, no record is to be found in the earliest published catalogue of the library.
The list of desiderata indicates how largely the first members were concerned with physics and chemistry, subjects which now receive little or no attention in the Academy.
The growth of the library was slow until 1816, when Mr. William Maclure, who was elected President the following year, began his liberal donations, which in 1819 had reached nearly 1,500 volumes.
A contemporary notice of the Academy says: " The valfte of these acquisitions was enhanced by the fact that they were possessed by no other institution on this side of the Atlantic.
The Academy, therefore, derived from this source a prosperity and prominence which, under other circumstances, must have been extremely slow and uncertain; while science at the same time received an impulse which has never faltered and which has been subsequently imparted to every section of our country."
Mr. Maclure transferred his library at New Harmony to the Academy in 1834.
Dr. Pickering, then Librarian, the following year superintended the conveyance of the collection, embracing 2,259 volumes on science, literature and art, to the Academy.
A catalogue of the library was begun in the first issue of the Journal in 1817, and was completed in the fourth volume, published in 1824.
The collection then seems to have consisted of 1,675 volumes, embracing 672 titles.
Another catalogue, published in 1836, gives the number of volumes then in the library, excluding a collection of historical documents, at 6,890, of which no less than 5,232' are thankfully credited to Mr. Maclure.
The classification was practically that which is still maintained, but the collection embraced hundreds of volumes on finance, law, morals, literature, religion, amusements, military art and other subjects not at all pertinent to the Academy, and which have long since been disposed of by sale or exchange.
In a note to Morton's biographical notice of William Maclure, prepared in 1841, it is stated that the library then consisted of 7,000 volumes.
At this time certain designated books were permitted to be borrowed, but the Committee expresses grave doubt as to the advisability of continuing the practice, as serious loss of works which could not be replaced had been detected during the preparation of the catalogue of 1836.
It was strongly recommended, in harmony with the desire of Mr. Maclure, that the library should be exclusively for use within the building.
It was considered, however, that this was scarcely practicable until the services of a salaried Librarian could be secured.
In May, 1845, Dr. Thomas B. Wilson presented Owen's History of British Fossil Mammalia and Birds, and from that date until bis death, March 15, 1865, more than 10,000 volumes in all branches of natural history were received from this liberal patron of the Academy.
These formed the rarest and most expensive portions of the library — complete sets of early transactions and superbly illustrated monographs.
Week after week the Wilson package was examined with delight, as it was sure to contain not only contributions indispensable to the workers, but also gifts of the highest artistic value, such as Gould's Monographs, Wolf .s Zoological Sketches, Chenu's Illustrations Conchy liologiqties, Reichenbach's Xenia Orchidacea, Lindley and Moore's Ferns of Great Britain, etc.
Dr. Wilson's earlier contributions were placed with the society on deposit, but were given outright in 1850 on condition that they should not be removed from the building, a rule which was then extended to the entire library.
Dr. Thomas B. Wilson was not the only member of his family who took an active interest in the Academy.
Between the years 1850 and 1857 his brother, Mr. Edward Wilson, residing in England, presented to the society 4,184 rare volumes and pamphlets of the last century, and after Dr. Wilson's death a valuable selection from his library was received from another brother, Mr. Rathmell Wilson.
Nor did the benefit derived by the Academy from the liberality of Dr. Wilson cease at his death.
He bequeathed to the society §10,000, directing that S300 of the annual income should be contributed toward the payment of the salary of the Librarian, the balance to be expended for the continuation of his subscriptions and for the purchase and binding of kindred books.
By means of this fund the Academy has been enabled from time to time to add to the library many costly monographs which, until quite recently, it would otherwise have been unable to procure.
In 1850 the collection had increased to 12,057 volumes.
Apart from these gifts and olhers from friends of the society, the growth of the library had depended on a system of exchange with other scientific societies, begun in 1817 when the Journal of the Academy was first issued.
This important source of supply has since been maintained, with the result of securing the earliest information regarding original research from all parts of the world.
Very inadequate sums for the purchase of books were secured from time to time by subscriptions or sales of material not germane to the Academy.
The historical documents received from Mr. Maclure were sold to the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in 1861 for $500.
This was known as the Maclure Fund.
A motion to invest the amount and expend the interest only was voted down and the entire sum was placed at the disposal of the Library Committee for the purchase of books.
The Conarroe Fund was a small amount arising from the sale of books presented by George M. Conarroe.
Sums of money for special needs were frequently contributed by Mr. Joseph Jeanes and a Library Fund was started in 1860, to which twenty-seven subscribers contributed $25 each annually until 1868.
Some duplicates were sold in 1870 for SlOO, and others were exchanged for a copy of Elliott's Birds of North America.
These were all helps, but a permanent endowment was sadly needed, for the income from the Wilson Bequest, after the sum toward the salary of the Librarian had been deducted, did not always yield a sufficient balance to pay the subscriptions.
It can therefore be readily understood with what joy Mr. Isaiah V. Williamson's gift in 1875 of S25,000 in ground rents was received.
The income only was to be expended on the purchase of scientific books, and the I. V. Williamson Fund, inaugurating a period of prosperity up to that time unknown, continues to yield an important part of the resources at the disposal of the Library Committee.
In 1882 eighteen hundred and ninety-seven volumes — 1,272 on religion, history, politics, general literature, 422 duplicates and 201 on fine arts and architecture — were sold for $1,825.14 By an arrangement with Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., one-half this sum was devoted to the Conchological Section, and the other was appropriated for binding.
The Warner Library, consisting of 1,045 volumes and 1,200 pamphlets, mostly on mathematics, came into the possession of the society in 1892, on the coming of age of Mr. Warner's daughter and heiress.
The library of James Aitken Meigs, consisting of 5,089 volumes, 1,916 of which were on other than scientific subjects, was bequeathed to the Academy by his father, John G. Meigs, who also left to the society $20,000, one-half for the exclusive use of the library.
Before his death Mr. Meigs intimated his desire that even the volumes not pertinent to the Academy should be kept together as the James Aitken Meigs Library, and this desire has been so far complied with.
The first catalogue of the library was published, it will be remembered, at irregular intervals in the first four volumes of the Journal from 1817 to 1824. , ]Nb classification is indicated in this list.
The carefully compiled catalogue of 1836 is divided into broad subject sections.
Dr. Fisher reports the beginning of a new catalogue in 1859, but the intention, it would appear, was not carried out.
The catalogues then in use were manuscript hand-lists, arranged alphabetically for each separate department.
They were not kept strictly up to date.
They were added to and copied by a special clerical assistant in 1863 and 1864, and were again transcribed in 1878.
They remained in use until 1885, when they were finally replaced by a card catalogue which, in a very crude form, had been begun in 1874 and completed in 1880.
The numbering of the library was begun with the Conchological Department in 1869, and gradually extended, as a matter of convenience, to the other sections of the library in connection with the preparation of the card catalogue.
Shelf lists of the several departments, indispensable for the proper placing of the books and in accounting for missing volumes, were also prepared.
From 1883 to 1894 much-needed clerical assistance was secured in a more or less intermittent way.
The expenses were defrayed by subscriptions secured by Mrs. Annis Lea Wister and Dr. Henry M, Fisher.
The old card catalogue was transcribed on regulation library cards, arranged in drawers in three sections devoted to authors, subjects and periodicals.
It was begun in 1885, is the basis of the catalogue now in use and meets measurably the requirements of modern library administration.
The clerk also did much good work in the endeavor to secure supplies of deficiencies from corresponding societies.
Mr. William J.
Fox was appointed messenger March 26, 1888.
Proving himself intelligent and trustworthy in the performance of such work as was assigned him, he was promoted to the position of Assistant Librarian in 1890, and has since been efficient iu forwarding the interests of the Academy.
To provide for the supposed wants of students the experiment of keeping the library open until 10 P.M. was begun in 1873 and continued until 1876, when it was abandoned as not serving any useful end on account of the extremely limited number of members using the books in the evening.
A catalogue of duplicates was printed and distributed in 1899.
A number of sales have been effected, but the larger part of the collection remains yet on hand.
Up to 1847 the library had been arranged in connection with the Museum, manifestly to the great discomfort of students who, as Dr. Zantzinger says in his report for that year, were excluded from the hall when it was open to the public.
The society then occupied the building at the corner of Broad and Sansora streets (Plate C), into which it had moved from Twelfth and Sansom streets (Plate B) seven years before.
During the year mentioned the books were arranged in a department expressly designed as a library and meeting room at the western end of the ground floor.
The Librarian was then required to be on duty during part of the forenoon, his place being supplied in the afternoon by the Chairman of the Curators.
The eastern hall, in which the collections of minerals and fossils had been arranged, was given up to the Library in 1855, and was used from 1857 as a meeting room.
Finally the western section, formerly used for this purpose, was divided in two by a partition of cases erected from time to time by the liberality of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, thus providing on the floor and gaUery additional room and placing the library in the condition in which it remained until removal to the present building in 1876.
The present system of alternating alcoves and study rooms with the spacious gallery above for the arrangement of periodicals is well known to all now using the library.
The accompanying plates, D, E and F, illustrate the ground-plaa of the building vacated in 1876 and the present distribution and aspect of the library.
The first Librarian was John Speakmau, who was elected Novem.
ber 29, 1814, and served until December 26, 1815, when he was succeeded in rapid succession by Caleb Richardson, Jacob Pierce, S. W. Conrad, Charles Pickering, Paul Beck Goddard, Joseph Carson, Robert Bridges, Alfred L. Elwyn, Joseph Leidy, and William S. Zantziuger.
Several of these served only one or two years.
Dr. Zantzinger alone reaching an incumbency of ten years.
Then came Dr. James Aitken Meigs, from August, 1856, to May, 1859, and Dr. James C. Fisher, from June 28, 1859, to August 27, 1861, when he entered the army as contract surgeon and was succeeded by Dr. R. E. Griffith, who served only one year.
It was becoming hard to find any one who was willing to take the office.
There were certain duties which manifestly had to be performed.
As exchanges came in and the Wilson packages were delivered, the accessions, must be shelved and recorded, even though they were not systematically catalogued, and some few, from time to time, had to be prepared for the binder.
Dr. Robert Bridges devoted much time at irregular intervals to the latter duty, although not officially.
He deserves, also, the grateful remembrance of the Academy for his supervision, in connection with Mr. William S. Vaux, of the distribution of the Proceedings and Journal to subscribers and exchanges, the editorial work being performed by Dr. Joseph Leidy, then and until his death, Chairman of the Publication Committee.
Mr. J. Dickinson Sergeant was finally prevailed on to take the Librarianship, but only on condition that an assistant should be engaged to perform the routine duties of the office.
The financial resources of the Academy were not such as to permit the engagement of a trained bibliographer, and a boy was employed who owed his selection to the good offices of Mr. John Cassin.
The Assistant's first record of accessions was made February 4, 1862, within a few days of the beginning of the second half century of the society's history.
Mr.
Sergeant held the Librarianship until December, 1867, when the Assistant, who had in the meantime taken a degree from the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania, under the preceptorship of the" beloved Leidy, was appointed to the ofBce which he has held continuously ever since.
If the situation be unchanged, therefore, in February of next year, he will have had the supervision of the Academy's Library, in conjunction with the Library Committee, as Assistant and Librarian for forty years.
He begs to be allowed,' on this occasion, to put on record his obligation to his first and only chief, J. Dickinson Sergeant, for the kindly forbearance, helpful council and unfailing courtesy and encouragement which filled the life of the boy with interest and gladness and turned the daily task which, under an unsympathetic master, might well have been irksome enough, into a labor of love.
Dr. Leidy, also, was invariably helpful and encouragiug, and the Librarian is unceasingly thankful thai early in his life it was given to him to know, and in a measure to appreciate, the high ideals embodied in those two men.
A like acknowledgment of obligation is, in a measure, due to nearly every one with whom he has been brought into association during his forty years of service in the Academy.
Only the most cordial associations are called up by the names of Lea, Wilson, Bridges, Hays, LeConte, Slack, Cassin, Tryon, Vaux, Jeanes, Allen, Horn, Redfield and Meehan, not to mention the dear friends who are still met with every day, to all of whom he is indebted for kindliness, courtesy, and forbearance.
His paths have been made by them paths of pleasantness.
The Librarian hopes that he may be forgiven these personalities.
It can be safely asserted that he will not have an opportunity, after an additional equal term of service, to record his obligation to his associates living and dead.
The statistics presented above show that the Academy possesses, including all the books in the building, except duplicates set apart for sale, a library of over 50,000 volumes.
Their arrangement is practically what the present Librarian inherited from his predecessors in 1862.
It is far from meeting the requirements of modern library classification, but in practice it has been found to be not far short of what is wanted by the worker.
Books as they are received are placed under their respective headings, for the most part consecutively, a separate running number being used iu each department.
The subject catalogue in a measure supplies the needs of a more philosophic arrangement, and it is easy to make a memorandum of the position of books on a giv^en subject.
Still, the adoption of the decimal system of arrangement would be, in some respects, desirable ; but reclassification and recataloguiug will involve great inconvenience and a heavy expense, as the employment of a corps of trained assistants will be unavoidable.
It may be that some one interested in the welfare of the library will volunteer to defray the cost of making such a change in the prompt way which would involve the least discomfort, or the Academy in the future may find itself in a position to make the required appropriations.
Until that time arrives it is a satisfaction to know that few or no complaints are heard from the earnest workers who use the library in yearly increasing numbers, and who are intelligently informed as to what they desire in the prosecution of their work of original research.
The statistics of work and growth for the year are sufficient evidence that this department is actively benefitted by the improved financial condition of the Academy.
Every book added to the shelves as the result of the judicious administration of its resources is a memorial of the liberal and enlightened men who have selected the Academy as their agent iu the advancement of science.
Mr. William J.
Fox has continued to render intelligent and willing assistance to the Librarian, and also in many important ways to "the Recording Secretary.
All of which is respectfully submitted, Edward J. Nolan, lAbrarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators are able to report many iraprovemenis in the museum and buildings of the Academy during the past year, as wcill as important advances in the arrangement and growth of the collections.
In the early part of the year, through the increased funds at their disposal, the services of Dr. Henry Skinner and Mr. E. G. Vanatta were secured as Assistants ; Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry was appointed Special Curator of Mollusca, while Mr. Henry W. Fowler has been employed identifying, arranging and caring for the collection of fishes.
With these additions the salaried staff of the Academy is now greater than ever before, and the work accomplished ■ during the year has been correspondingly increased.
During the summer the outside woodwork of the buildings, which has been for some time badly in need of attention, has been entirely repainted, and necessary repairs have been made to the roofs.
A number of cases have been erected for the extension of the library and for the accommodation of additions to the herbarium and the study collection of mollusks, while eighteen moth-proof tin cases have been purchased for the study series of birds and mammals, in addition lo five large wooden ones uniform with those provided last year.
In the museum seven plate glass cases have been constructed from the general appropriations and the income of the " Mary Jeanes Museum Fund."
Three of these are of large size, two for birds and one for mammals, and cover collectively over six hundred square feet of floor space.
Two other cases hiive been presented by Mr. Clarence B. Moore, uniform with those already installed, to accommodate the accessions to the " Moore Archaeological Collection."
The large slab of fossil ferns presented by Mr. C. B. Nichols has also been enclosed in glass.
The opening of the museum on Sunday afternoons has been continued throughout the year, to the gratification of large numbers of persons who are unable to visit it on weekdays.
During the past summer the Academy has for the first time maintained a table at the Wood's Hole Biolot^ical Laboratory.
It was occupied through the season by Mr. H. W. Fowler.
Much of the work accomplished during the past year in the arrangement of the collections is described in detail in the reports of the Botanical, Conchological, Ornithological and Mineralogical Sections which follow, while the more important work of other departments is briefly outlined below.
Mr. Stone has spent the greater part of the spi'ing and summer in the arrangement of the reptiles and batrachians, with the result that all the groups uot handled last year have been catalogued and systematically arranged and many unidentified specimens named.
Mr. Fowler has continued his study of, and completely rearranged and relabeled the carp-like and deep-sea fishes, the eels and their allies, and the Cypriuodonts, comprising about two-fifths of the entire collection.
During the year the whole series of alcoholic vertebrates have been carefully examined and the alcohol replenished.
The mammalian skeletons and skulls have all been relabelled wil h special tags and a systematic card catalogue of all the mammal collections, has been prepared by Mr. Reha.
In the Archaeological department Miss H. N. Wardle has catalogued and arranged a large number of specimens, including most of the Haldeman Collection, Through the generosity of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain, Mr. C. W. Johnson has continued his care of the Isaac Lea Collection of Eocene Mollusca.
Six hundred and fifteen species have been added during the year, mainly through exchange.
Many important additions to the collections have been received since the preparation of the last report.
The Zoological Society of Philadelphia has presented a number of specimens, one of the most notable being a full-grown Indian Rhinoceros, which has been mounted by Mr. David McCadden, the taxidermist.
Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, has continued to add most liberally to ihe conchological collection, furnishing many rare and hitherto unknown species.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown has added largely to the department of reptiles, while a fine series of Porto Rican fishes was received from the United States Fish Commission.
Dr. A. Donaldson Smith presented a number of valuable birds, mammals and mollusks secured during his recent expedition to Lake Rudolf, Africa.
Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller, who are at present conducting an expedition in the interior of Sumatra, have generously promised to the Academy such of their collections as are pertinent to its work, a portion of the material having been already shipped.
The Curators would express the indebtedness of the Academy to the late Thomas Meehan, Dr. P. P. Calvert, Theodore D. Raud, Lewis Woolman, Charles Liebeck and other members for aid in various departments, as well as to the students of the Jessup Fund, Miss H. N. Wardle, Edward G. Vanatta, James A. G. Rehn and H, L. Viereck.
Besides the frequent consultation of the collections by visiting naturalists, specimens have been loaned for study to C. D. Beadle, E. L. Morris, W. B. Scott, G. S. Miller, Jr., M. J. Rathburn, C. H. Ball, W. B. Clark, W. D. Matthew, B. L. Robinson, E. D. Merrill, J. W. Gidley, G. C. Martin, H. M. Smith, R. Ridgway, M. W. Lyon, Jr., J. Dwight, Jr., O. P. Hay, R. Bowdler Sharpe, R. Arnold, R. H. Howe, Jr., E. A. Mearns, A. W. Evans, B. G. Wilder, D. G. Elliott and Alpheus Hyatt.
Henry C. Chapman, Samuel G. Dixon, Arthur E. Brown, Henry A. Pilsbry, Curators.
REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. VAUX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections would respectfully report that the specimens added have been fewer than in prior years, but have been unusually fine.
Among them may'be particularly mentioned a crystallized native copper from Lake Superior ; five tourmalines, including an unusually fine achroite, two showing cat's-eye reflections ; an excellent green tourmaline and rubellite, and a very remarkable opal from Australia.
Much interest has been manifested in the collections by the visitors to the museum.
Respectfully submitted, Theodore D. Rand, Curator.
H I m > o > D m < O Tl z > H C > r CO O > 5 ^ ?
H z -I I S I < I ?
H < • ° o o o 0580 o o o 5 BROAD ST. •133yiS H1N3313N1N gssssg « » 5i^ < V HOCO^Zp >0>?
OcioTTT " S c o "" "5?
C) O I > o < J 2 Z I = O 5 i; o O I 2<o2 H<OmO cm J [ 1.
1 I I 3 D L=J I M ¥ REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
The Section has held the usual meetings during the year with increased membership.
It has lost by death a valued member, Mr. David S. Holman.
The Conservator reports that the apparatus and slides belonging to the Section are in fair condition, and some progress has been made in cataloguing the latter.
Additions during the year include thirty-six slides of wood sections purchased and twenty-six volumes, principally of microscopical journals, presented by Mr. Jo';n C, AVilson.
At a joint meeting with the Biological Society of the University of Pennsylvania, the latter was represented by Prof. Conkliu, who spoke upon " Fertilization and Inheritance," and the Section by Mr. Frank J. Keeley, who gave a history of the " Development of the American Microscope."
Dr. Morris also spoke upon the " Theory of Vibration."
Communications have been made by Mr. Palmer on Spirogyra and desmids; by Mr. Keeley on rock-inclusions, various appliances of the microscope, and the Abbe diffraction theory; by Mr. Woolman on artesian well deposits, by Mr Boyer on diatoms; by Dr. Stewart on white blood corpuscles and bacteria, and by Dr. Morris on pathology.
At the meetings with the Academy Dr. Benjamin Sharp spoke upon the " Food of the Cod;" Dr. Pilsbry on the " Relationships of the Genus Neobeliscus ;" Mr. Keeley on the "Structure of Diatoms" and "Colored Illumination," and Drs.
Ravenel and McCarthy on the ' ' Pathology and Treatment of Rabies. '
' The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Director, .... J. Cheston Morris, M.D.
ViceDirector, Treasurer, Conservator^ .
Corresponding Secretarn, .
Recorder, 49 T. Chalkley Palmer.
Lewis Woolman.
Frank J. Keeley.
Silas L. Schumo.
Charles S. Boyer.
Charles S. Boyer, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The growth of the collection of mollusks during the year has been satisfactory.
The total number of accessions, 2,705, although less than in several years, comprises a large amount of material preserved in alcohol aud also more species new to the collection than has'e been added in any year since the A. D. Brown Collection was received.
The chief accessions are as follows: Over 800 species of Japanese mollusks received from Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan; a large lot of South Sea shells collected by C. D. Voy in 1872-3, and presented by Mrs. Annie P. Cope; a small series of shells from Hawaii and Torres Strait, sent to our Treasurer, Mr. Roberts, by Mr. D. Thaanum, consisting largely of species new to the collection, aud a second collection from British East Africa from Dr. A. Donaldson Smith.
The series of American mollusks has been increased by about 200 species from the Galapagos and Cocos Islands, collected by an expedition from Leland Stanford, Jr. University; a selected series from the Gulf of California from Mr. J. G. Malone, and a small series of C. B. Adams' Panama shells; while Messrs. E. H. Ashmun, A. C. Billups, G. H. Clapp, T. D. A. Cockerell, M. J. Elrod, J. H. Ferriss, Dr. Henry Skinuer, Bi-yant Walker, aud many others have added valuable material to the collection of United States mollusks, both dry and in alcohol.
A portion of this material has been worked up by Mr. Vanatta and the Conservator in special papers.
The Academy purchased 328 species of air-breathing prosobranch snails new to the collection.
Progress has been made in the rearrangemcmt of the Pelecypoda and the alcoholic collection.
The remainder of the Bulimulid(z and the geuus Cerion have been revised in the progress of monographs of these groups.
The officers elected at the annual meeting, held December 5, 1901, are as follows: Director, ..... Uselma C. Smith.
ViceDirector, Recorder and Librarian, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, .
Conservator, John Ford.
Edward J. Nolan.
Charles W. Johnson.
S. Raymond Roberts.
Henry A. Pilsbry.
The continued assistance of Mr. E. G. Vanatta has largely increased the work accomplished in the department.
Advice and assistance have also been rendered by Mr. C. W. Johnson and other members of the Museum Committee.
H. A. PiLSBRY, Conservator.
KEPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
The usual meetings liave been held and entomological communications of interest and scientific value have been made by members and associates.
The attendance has been good, the average being fourteen persons.
Seven associates have been elected during the year.
The Entomological News and Froeeedings of the Entomological Section of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has been continued with increased success.
During the year the twelfth volume has been completed with three hundred and twenty-eight pages and thirteen plates.
The Section has had a very eventful year, due to the large and valuable additions of specimens to the collections of the department.
Two representative collections of Hymenoptera have been presented: the Cresson Collection and the collection of Gallflies made by INIr.
Homer F. Bassett, of Waterbury, Conn.
The former collection contains 2,867 types and 3,511 species and the number of specimens is estimated at 87,775.
The Bassett Collection contains 315 boxes, estimated to contain 6,300 specimens and over 300 types.
The collection of Orthoptera made and presented to the Section by Mr. J.
A. G. Rehu numbers 1,653 specimens.
In addition the Academy has purchased 3,500 specimens.
These collections, in conjunction with the material already in the possession of the Section, form the best museum collection of these insects in America.
The Conservator has added over a thousand specimens collected in San Miguel county, N. M., during the summer.
About forty species of these are new to science, and many are new to the collection.
The specimens added to the cabinets during the year will number nearly 104,000.
772 [Dec.
The collections are in a good state of preservation, but additional cases are needed and more space for the department is desirable.
At the annual meeting, held December 26, the following were elected to serve as officers for the year 1902: Director, ViceDirector, Treasurer, .
Recorder and Conservator, Secretary, Publication Committee, .
Philip Laurent.
H. W. Wenzel.
E. T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner.
C. W' Johnson.
J. H. Ridings, C. W. Johnson.
Henry Skinner, Conservator.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The Botanical Section reports that the herbarium is in a generally satisfactory condition.
Much progress has been made in the work of arrangement during the year.
About 5,500 specimens have been added to the collections, largely through purchase, the most important being a portion of the collections of Mr. A.
A. Heller, from Virginia, North Carolina, Texas, Arizona, Wyoming, Idaho, Washington, Oregon and California, numbering twenty-five hundred specimens and containing about 250 types, cotypes and authentic specimens, with many from original tyj^e localities.
These will add very materially to the North American series of plants.
Other purchases have been 129 specimens of Porto Rican plants from A.
A. Heller, 190 specimens of Mexican plants from C. G. Pringle, 776 specimens of Canary Island plants from Dr. Theodore Bornmuller, and 250 specimens of West Australian plants from Dr. Pritzei.
Donations numbering about 2,000 specimens have been received from Col. C. A. H. McCauley, William M. Canby, Benjamin H. Smith, Uselma C. Smith, C. F. Saunders, Witmer Stone, E. G. Vanatta and Stewardson Brown.
The mountinsr of the general herbarium was completed in September, largely through the untiring efforts of the late Mr. Meehan, it having been his expressed desire to see this work accomplished during his life, and strangely enough it was practically the last work he was able to do in the herbarium.
In the early part of the present year the Curators had constructed eleven additional cases in the north room, which has enabled the Conservator to rearrange all the specimens of the Anthophyta in the two rooms on the library floor, the Pteridophyta being arranged for the present in the south room on the gallery floor.
All of the cases have been marked on the outside with printed labels, in brass holders with transparent fronts, greatly facilitating the reference to specimens.
The mounting of the Charles E. Smith Herbarium was completed during the year, the local material being arranged in one of the cases in the south room on the gallery floor ; the balance of the specimens will be incorporated with tlie general collections during the coming year.
During the year much work has been accomplished on the C. W. Short Herbarium, about ten thousand sheets having been mounted, all of which will be incorporated with the general collections as rapidly as possible.
It is the desire of the Conservator to push this w^ork during the coming year, so that the many valuable specimens contained in this collection may be made available for study at as early a date as possible.
At the meeting of the Botanical Section, held on Monday, December 9, 1901, the following were elected as the ofiicers to serve for the coming year : Director, ..... Benjamin H. Smith.
ViceDirector, .
Corresponding Secretary, .
Recorder, Treasurer and Conservator, Joseph Crawford.
John T. Pennypacker.
John W. Harshberger, Stewardson Brown.
Respectfully submitted, Stewardson Brown, Coiiservator, REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section respectfully reports that nine meetings have been held during the year, besides six excursions to points of geological or mineralogical interest.
The average attendance at the meetings has been eight members, on the excursions thirty-two.
Additions to the Academy's collection of mineral and geological specimens include many of interest, though in number not as great as in previous years.
An elaborate paper was read before the Section by Mr. John S. Ash on the Buckingham Fault, which elicited considerable discussion, participated in by Messrs. Lyman, Woolman and others.
There were read also other papers on Arizona lignite, New Jersey gravels, and on various questions relating to the geology of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Frank J. Keeley exhibited a number of rock sections prepared by himself, and made remarks upon them, particularly upon their inclusions.
The first excursion was made to Langhorne and vicinity, for the examination of the New Red Rocks in that neighborhood, and to Van Artsdalen's quarry ; the second and third to the vicinity of Yardley and New Hope, the fourth to Lodel creek, near Grater's ford on the Perkiomen, and to Skippack creek.
At Lodel creek a slab was obtained showing ripple marks and reptilian and amphibian footprints.
The fifth was to West Chester, where the cabinet of Mr. W. W. Jefferis was inspected and also Mr. Sharpless' collection of Indian relics, after which a number of localities in Ihe vicinity were visited.
The sixth excursion was to the fossil beds in the Mattewan and other formations in the vicinity of Swedesboro and Mullica Hill.
The following officers of the Section for the ensuing year were elected : Director, ..... Theodore D. Rand.
Vice-Director, Treasurer, Conservator, Recorder, Benjamin Smith Lyman.
Emma Walter.
F. J. Keeley.
Charles Schiiffer.
Respectfully submitted, Theodore D. Rand, Director.
REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION.
Duriug the past year a large part of the Conservator's time has been occupied by his (kities as assistant to the Curators in other departments.
It has, however, been possible to make considerable progress in the rearrangement of the ornithological collections.
All of the mounted water bu'ds, with the exception of the Anatidcz and Laridw, have been carefully examined by the taxidermist, relabeled with both common and technical names, and installed on the ornithological floor of the new building.
They completely fill the large case erected last year, and show to much better advantage than they did in the old gallery.
During the close of the present year three additional cases have been furnished by the Curators, which it is estimated will accommodate about one-third of the entire mounted collection.
Labels for most of the remaining water birds have ah-eady been prepared, and it is expected all the new cases will be filled and the new floor opened to the public in the spring.
For the study collection eighteen moth-proof cans and three large wooden cases have been purchased, permitting the abandonment of almost all of the temporary storage boxes that we were forced to make use of some years ago.
With a similar provision next year the entire collection of bird skins will be accommodated in modern cases and rendered absolutely safe from moths and dust.
Considerable time has been required to effect the systematic arrangement of the skins in the new cases, but as a result they are now more accessible than ever before.
The Mcllhenny collection of Alaskan birds, which was formally acquired early in the year, has been incorporated with the general collection, as also a valuable local collection of water birds, the gift of Mr. H. W. Fowler.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania Audubon Society have continued to hold their meetings in the building and have done a great deal to stimulate the study of birds at the Academy.
Much aid has been rendered during the year to ornithologists in other institutions, both by correspondence and by loan of specimens, and many visiting naturalists have made use of the collections.
Among other important additions to the department may be mentioned a series of birds from Lake Rudolf, Africa, from Dr. 776 [Dec, A. Donaldson Smith; a series of several hundred skulls and sterna of American birds from H. W. Fowler and Witraer Stone, and a valuable collection of nests and eggs from Robert T. Young.
At the annual meeting, held December 18, 1901, the following officers were chosen: Director, ..... Spencer Trotter, M.D.
ViceDirector, .
Secretary, Recorder, Treasurer and Conservator, George Spencer jNIorris.
William A. Shryock.
Stewardson Brown.
Witmer Stone.
Respectfully submitted, Wither Stone, Conservator.
The election of Officers, Councilors and Members of the Committee on Accounts to serve during 1902 was held with the following result: President, Vice-Presidents, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian, Curators, .... Councilors to serve three years.
Committee on Accounts, .
Samuel G. Dixon, M.D.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D. Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. George Vaux, Jr. Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Henry C. Chapman,M.
D. , Arthur Erwin Brown, Samuel G. Dixon, jNI.D.
, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D.
Uselma C. Smith, Charles Roberts, John Cadwaladf^r, AVilliam Sellers.
Uselma C. Smith, Charles JMorris, William L. Baily, Harold Wingate, Lewis Woolman.
1901.]
n I COUNCIL FOR 1902.
Ex-officlo.
— Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., Arthur Erwin Browu, Edwin G. Couklin, Ph.D., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry C. Chapman, M.D.
To serve Three Years.
— Charles Roberts, Uselma C. Smith, John Cadwalader, William Sellers.
To serve Two Fear^.
—Charles Schaeffer, M.D., Dr. C. Newlin Pierce, Theodore D. Rand, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. To serve One Year.
— Thomas A. Robinson, Charles H. Cramp, Charles Morris, Isaac J. Wistar.
Curator of Mollusca, Assistant Librarian, Assistants to the Curators, Taxidermist, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D.
William J.
Fox.
Witmer Stone, Henry Skinner, M.D.
, Stewardson Brown, J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. Edward G, Vanatta, Charles W. Johnson.
David McCadden.
Jes.mp Fund Students, J.
A. G. Rehn, ^^ H. L. Viereck, Edward G. Vanatta, Harriet Newell Wardel, Janitors, Charles Clappier, John Mcllhenny, Daniel Heckler.
