NEW JAPANESE MARINE LAND AND FRESHWATER MOLLUSCA.
EY HENRY A. PILSBRY'.
The present paper contiuues the description of new species of mollusks discovered by INIr.
Y. Hi rase.
I have taken this opportunity to illusti'ate the Japanese marine shells described in a former communication. PLEUROTOMID.
Daphnella fragilis var.
articulata nov. PI.
XXI fig.
26.
General form of D. fnajilis Rve. 
or D. lymnceformis Kien.
.
Apical two whorls smooth several whorls following sculptured with unequal spiral cords as coarse as those on the last whorl densely crenulate or beaded by close fine longitudinal laminae much less prominent and closer than the spirals.
Last whorl densely and evenly latticed by alternately larger and smaller spiral cords intersecting scarcely less prominent but rather closer longitudinal ribstria.
Pale brown every fourth cord marked with browu in narrow lines along the cord alternating with diffused white spots a row of alternately brown and white squarish spots below the suture the early whorls lrown.
Aperture smooth witliin the outer lip thin regularly arcuate rather strongly retracted above.
Length 19 diam.
7 largest axis of apei'ture  11 mm.
Hirado Hizen in western Kiusiu Mr. Y. Hirase No.
903 types No.
80634 Coll.
A. N. S. P. Kamakura just below Tokyo Bay on the eastern side of Hondo Acad.
Coll..
Mr. Tryon has lumped several totally distinct species under D. lyhimejormis but the form so called by Kiener is less plump than articulata with even close spirals and inconspicuous longitudinal sculpture on the last whorl while the spire has comparatively strong costae and rather coarse spirals.
The color well shown in Kiener' s figure is whitish Avith tawny waved and anastomosing longitudinal stripes.
D. fragilis has not yet to my knowledge 'ThesQ Proceedings p. 193.
25 been adequately defined but the form I have considered to be that species has a small elevated nucleus of 2 Avhorls followed by about three costate whorls the ribs crossed by two or three coarse spiral cords after which the sculpture becomes comparatively fine.
If I am correct in this identification then articulata is a distinct species but as Hedley has lately hinted many of the more critical or difficult species of the  London School of conchologists of which A. Adams and Reeve were shining lights can be identified with certainty only by visiting the British Museum.
Under the circumstances I subordinate my form from Japan to D. fragilis as a variety content to have a name for this wellmarked shell evidently of wide distribution in Japanese waters.
D. supercodata of E. A Smith seems from a specimen before me to belong near fragilis though clearly distinct in both form and sculpture.
D. oruata Hinds fi'om Xew Guinea is evidently allied though with a different colorpattern.
MITRIDu.
Mitra Costellaria hizenensis n. sp.
ri.
XXI fisr.
31.
Shell slender solid dusky olive with a brown or orangebrown and rather prominent subsutural line and an illdefined white zone at the shoulder in which the summits of the ribs are transversely marked with short scattered brown lines the narrow portion of the base is pale yellow with brown spots and dots.
Surface rather glossy sculptured with rounded longitudinal ribs nearly or quite as wide as their intervals 13 or 14 in number on the penultimate whorl becoming gradually weaker below the periphery of the last Avhorl and in adults obsolete toward the aperture the concave in tervals csed by very low flat spirals rather wider than the shallow oblong pits between them and about G in number on the penultimate whorl.
The last whorl is attenuated below and has a number of large spiral ribs and small cords and strioe the largest rib continuous with the upper columcllar plait.
Whorls about  apex dark.
Aperture small dark purplebrown within the lip thin whitebordered multilirate inside.
Columella with four simple plaits.
Length 14.5 diam.
5 longest axis of aperture 7.5 mm length 17 diam.
6.5 mm.
 Or by imposing upon the pre.sent custodian of the collection of Mollusca wbose gocl nature is admitted to be wellnigh inexhaustible.
Hirado Hizeu western Kiusiu Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80475 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from G88 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Near M. fiiscoapicata E. A. Smith but it has more and shallower spiral sulci in the intervals between the ribs which are fewer in number it is smaller the upper two plaits of the columella are not grooved and the coloration is somewhat different.
M. gotoeiisis and M. colluisoni have more numerous ribs.
In adult specimens of M. hlzenensis the latter third of the last whorl is smooth the costre disappearing.
Mitra Costellaria vanattai n. sp.
ri.
XXI tig.
2S.
Shell rather slender solid brownish olive with a wide darkbrown baud below the periphery and a light brown line at the shoulder the base biowu.
Surface rather glossy sculptured with rounded longitudinal ribs as wide as the smooth concave intervals 14 in nuuiber on the penultimate whorl obsolete on the latter half of the last whorl  the attenuated base sculptured with spiral cords the largest continuous with the upper plait of the columella those below it about 4 progressively smaller a few small spirals above the large cord.
Whorls remaining 8 the apex being eroded somewhat convex.
Aperture bluish and finely lirate deep within purple brown toward the whitebordered ihin p.
Columella with 5 plaits the upper strong not grooved.
Length 17 diam.
7 longest axis of aperture 8 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80470 from 6886 of Ml'.
Hirase's collection.
This species was sent with the preceding from which it is easilv separated by the want of spiral sculpture between the ribs.
Somewhat allied to JL semisculpta but it differs in the smooth intervals.
M. anaogica Reeve has fewer plaits according to the descrijtion.
MURICIDuSl.
Tritonidea submenkeana n. sp.
pi.
xxi fig.
24.
Shell shortfusiform very solid and strong.
Sculptured with longitudinal ribs 12 to 15 in number on the last whorl the last rib very much larger forming a large swollen varix behind the lip crossed by spiral cords which are low in the intercostal spaces but rise and widen into transverse oblong glossy tubercles where they cross the ribs the penultimate and earlier whorls having three such spiral cords the last whorl with ten counted just behind the outer lip  the intervals between the spiral cords everywhere densely finely striate.
Surface lustreless black Ihe intervals between ribs and a peripheral belt largely white the tubercles of the subsutural cord are mostly bi'own the others chiefly black.
Whorls about 8 but slightly convex the spire being rather straightly conic last whorl impressed below the suture concave below the periphery produced and spirally striated anteriorly.
Aperture less than half the length of the shell bluewhite inside the lip beveled with a brown spot at the termination of each spiral cord thickened within and contracted by six rounded teeth the upper one more widely separated than the others the second from above largest.
Columellar margin concave above with a pliciform tooth near the posterior angle straightened and rather wide below bearing five or six transverse tubercles.
Length 15 diam.
7 longest axis of aperture 7.5 mm.
Hirado Hizen Avestern Kiusiu Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80538 Coll.
A. K S. from 1087 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This little blackandwhite species groups with T. menkeana Dkr. a shorter shell with similar coloration.
The unusual prominence of the tubercles on the columellar lip and the sculpture of ribs tuberculate at the intersections of spiral cords give it much the a2pearance of a S'lstrum.
PURPURA.
The luteostoma group of Purpura was too much lumped in my Catalogue of Japanese Marine Mollusks.
From a renewed study of them with much moi'e material it seems that the following four Japanese forms are recognizable P. luteostoma Chemn.
Dillwyn P. hronni Dkr. P. clavigera Kiister P. tumulosa var.
problematica Baker  tumulosa Lischke not Reeve.
I formerly followed ISIr.
E. A. Smith' in referring the latter to P. alveolata Reeve but I am now convinced that alveolata is as Reeve stated a Panamic species.
We have specimens from Panama in our collection exactly like his figure.
Mr. Hirase sends the Californian species P. saxicola Val.
from Kisennuma Rikuzen on the east coast of Hondo.
RZ.
S. 1879.
Euthria hokkaidonis n. sp.
PI.
XIX fig.
17.
Shell slender fusiform moderately solid yellowish or purplish ashen.
Surface lustreless sculptured with slightly oblique longitudinal rounded folds as wide as their intervals 13 or 14 in number on the penultimate whorl wanting on the base of the last whorl where they disappear just below the periphery crossed by spiral cords alternating with threads or strife of which there are usually two in each interval the coarser cords about 5 iu number on the whorls of the spire slightly widening as they cross the longitudinal folds the spirals alone developed on the base.
Spire high whorls about 9 very convex separated by deep sutures the last whorl concave below produced in a slender somewhat recurved rostrum siphonal ridge convex.
Apei'ture small ovate acuminate above livid dull purple inside with 8 to 10 acute folds within the thinedged outer lip canal short and open.
Length 22 diara.
8.5 length of aperture 10 mm.
Length 22 diam.
8 length of aperture 9 mm.
Nakauta prov.
Teshio Hokkaido Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80394 from Xo.
102 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Apparently related to E. fmcolahlata E. A. Smith from which it differs conspicuously in the much more slender figure.
COLUMBELLID.
Columbella misera Sowerby.
PI.
XXI figs.
37 3S.
C. miser Sowb. Thes.
Conch. I p. 129 bi PI.
38 fig.
111.
This species is figured to illustrate its difference from the following.
It was taken iu some numbers at Kamakura province Sagami below the mouth of Tokyo Bay by Mr. Frederick Stearns.
It is very strongly ribbed especially on the spire the ribs being about half the width of the interstices about 11 or 12 in number on the penultimate whorl or on the last wheu they are not obsolete on its latter part which is frequently the case.
On the front of the last whorl these ribs extend well over the periphery but they become much shorter on its latter half or wholly obsolete.
The base is sculptured with coarse spiral cords which become increasingly weaker and obsolete as they appi'oach the periphery.
Color white ivith one or tico dark brown spots on each rib and a checkered striped basal zone the back of the last whorl irregularly striped or reticulate a white zone UfUully brov.
'udotted on each rib revolvcs below the suture.
The form varies widely.
Alt.
11 diam.
5.2 mm alt.
12 diam.
6 mm.
Figured specimens are No.
70765 Coll.
A. IST.
S. P. from Kamakura Sagami.
Columbella misera var.
polynyma Pils.
I'lXXI fis'.
39.
This vol. p. 196 Types No.
80556 Coll.
A. K S. P. from No.
1097 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Study of more specimens causes me to doubt whether the characters of this form are constantly different enough from misera to require specific rank.
The follovviiig variety connects them to some extent.
Columbella misera var.
californica Reeve.
PL XXI fiir.
36.
ColiiinheUii californica Reeve Conch.
Icon. VI.
fig.
165 1859.
Kobelt Coiichyl.
Cab. p. 59 PI.
8 figs.
8 4.
Not C. californiana Giiskoin P. Z. S. 1851 p. 12.
Specimens agreeing exactly with Reeve's figure were taken by .Mr.
Hirase at Hirado Hizen.
They are larger than C. misera but agree with that in sculpture except that there are one or two more ribs to a whorl.
The coloration is much darker.
There is a white subsutural zone pied with black and a white basal area striped with blackbrown the intermediate space being more or less suflfused with rich brown and copiously lineated with blackbrown.
The ribs are black below the subsutural zone.
Whorls over seven.
Alt.
13.5 diam.
6.5 mm.
 alt.
14 diam.
6 mm.
Prof von Martens has quoted this race as a synonym of his C. jajonica but I think incorrectly.
It is much nearer the true misera and in my opinion is a southern variety of that species.
The name given by Reeve is unfortunate as it is not a Californian species.
The sjecimen figured is No.
80597 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1230 of Mr. Hirase's collection C misera inhabits the ocean coast of Hondo C. misera var.
polynyma the opposite shore of the same island and both C. misera var.
jiohjnyma and C misera var.
californica occur in southwestern Kiusiu.
FASOIOLARIID.
Peristernia ustulata var.
luchuana I'ils.
PI.
XIX fig.
is.
See p. 197.
Type is No.
80418 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
298 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
P. crocea Gray scabrosa Reeve xaidhostoma Nutt.
and various other forms of the Polynesiau chlorostoma Sowb.
are all markedly shorter shells.
The variety of scabrosa figured by Kobelt Conchyl.
Cab.
Tavbinella PI.
23 f. 4 p. 96 may possibly be the same but it is nameless.
BUCOINID..
Chrysodomus intersculptus var.
frater I'ils.
PI.
XX fig.
21.
See p. 197.
Type is No.
80379 Coll.
A. K S. P. from No.
59 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Buccinum Hirasei n. sp.
PI.
XX fig.
22.
Shell solid turreted lartly covered with an olivebrown cuticle composed of about 8 whorls which are convex at the periphery contracted below and channeled above the channel rather wide flat bounded by a strongly elevated slightly uneven carina.
Sculpture of faint growthlines and a few low spiral cords hardly noticeable on the last whorl.
Aperture slightly ovate angular at the termination of the carina the basal notch not very deep.
Outer lip smooth not thickened somewhat expanded.
Operculum unknown.
Length 104 diam.
43 longest axis of aperture 37 mm.
Kizennuma Rikuzen Mr. Y. Hirase No.
556.
This magnificent species is known to me by the single specimen figured which was collected dead.
The outer lip is broken above the middle so that its true outline in that part is not given in the figure.
The cuticle has nearly all been lost and the shell is overgrown with Pulyzoa Sjiirorbis etc.
The conspicuous channel at the suture is formed almost exactly like that of Chnjsodomus pericoehlloii Schrenk a species occuriing with B. Hirasei at Kizennuma.
The similarity is so great that I have figui'ed Schrenk' s species for comparison.
Chrysodomus pericochlion Schrenk.
PI.
XX fig.
23.
The specimen here figured is longer and less inflated than the original type of the species as figured by Schrenk.
The dark olive cuticle wanting from the base of the shell resembles that of Buccinum Hirasei and reminds one of the cuticle of such freshwater snails as Viviparus or Campeloma.
CERITHIID.
CLAVA Martyii.
This genus has been used to cover certain species formerly referred to Potamides by Jousseaume in 1884 and by Dollfus and Dautzenberg in 1891 and for the group long known as Vertagus by Dall in 1892 The latter usage I find to be correct.
In the first volume of the Universal Co7icholofij Martyn introduces Clava for the Cerithiidce known to him  a group which had ireviously been referred to Miirex by Linnaeus.
He gives the following species Clava rugata Martyn  Cerithium lineatum Lam..
Otava herculea Martyn  Cerithium eheidnum Brug.
.
Clava maculata Martyn  Cerithium maculosum auct.
.
Clava rubus Martyn  Cerithium echinatum Lam..
In following volumes of the same work Martyn adds still other forms of Clava.
But it is obvious that a type for the genus must be selected from species contained in his first volume.
Now the C. herculea of his list was made type of the genus Pyrazus by Montfort in 1810' under the name Pyrazus baudini Montf.
C. rubus falls into Cerithium as now restricted.'
This leaves C. maculata and C. rugata to bear the name Clava.
The two species are not closely related and the latter may be considered type of Martyn's genus.
The name Vertagus used for this group by many authors had no standing in binomial nomenclature until long after the foundation of Clava.
Bull.
Soc.
Zool.
de France IX 1884 p. 191.
 Journ.
de CJonchyl. 1899 p. 2.
 Trana.
Wagner Free Iristitute of Science III p. 290. '
Conch.
Syst. II pp.
458 459.
8 CeritJiium was established by Bruguiere to contain species of Vertagus and Potamides of authors as well as the forms to which it is now restricted.
Clava rubus of Martyn is the wellknown Ccritldnm echinatum of Lamarck which name it must replace.
It is not the Cerithium rubus of English monographers or of Tryon.
who followed their error.
Kohelt in his monograph in the new edition of Chemnitz's Conchylien Cabinet p. 213 quotes C. rubus I'ilsbry Manual IX p. 103 PL 23 fig.
9 as a synonym of C. serratum Wood.
I was not responsible for volume IX of the Manual my work beginning in volume X.
With a 
he also quotes Clavus rubus Martyn.
But Martyn's Clava rubus was a totally different shell the C. echinatum of authors a common Polynesian species.
The failure on the part of monographers to recognize this fict was due to want of care  neither the Universal Concltology nor Chenu's reprint have been consulted by them.
 C. maculata is the C. maculosum of English monographers and of Tryon  another curious error.
No species of the type proposed by Dr. Jousseaume and Messrs.
Dollfus and Dautzenberg was contained in Martyn's original list.
Their use of the name Clava is therefore without proper foundation while Ball's course is clearly supported by the evidence of Martyn's original work.
The Vertagus pfefferi of Dunker is not a Vertagus or Clava but a true Cerithlum which I have received from Hirado prov.
Hizeu Japan collected by Mr. Hirase.
and from Hong Kong B. Schmacker.
It is very close to C. granosum Kiener not of Searles Wood 1848 which was described from the Red Sea and has been reported by Lischke Jap.
MeeresConchyl. I p. 68 from Nagasaki.
C. mitrceforme Sowb.
seems to differ but little if at all and C. eximium Sowb.
and rubus of Sowerby and Tryon may be the same thing.
As there is great uncertainty about the species of Kiener and Sowerby I prefer to use the name given by Dunker based upon Japanese specimens and with a good description and figures for the Japanese form.
Cerithium chemnitzianum n. sp.
PI.
XIX figs.
14 15.
Shell oblongconic strong pale yellow sparsely maculate and densely dotted with rich brown.
Sculptured with many very low spiral cords which are weakly gianose the grains irregularly alternating brown and white the upper two cords with stronger grains.
There are about 10 of these cords on the latter part of the last whorl 4 on the penultimate and 3 on each of the earlier whorls.
The intervals between cords are densely striate spirally the strise usually very unequal a median one generally larger sometimes nearly as large as the primary cords and browndotted.
Outlines of the spire convex below becoming straight above.
Whorls remaining 8 the apex being eroded the upper ones flattened the last three somewhat convex just below the sutures the last whorl having a very strong tumid oblique varix on the back and another less elevated one strengthening the outer lip.
Aperture slightly oblique the base being a little advanced white within outer hp strongly arched almost forming a semicircle.
Columellar  That the English monographers and Tryon should have identified this small species as Martyn's Clava rubus is inexplicable.
Jliirex serratus of Wood in the Index Testaceologiciis PI.
28 fig.
158 is a much reduced and poor figure of the true O. rubus Martyn  but C. serratum of the English and German monographs is quite another thing.
lip calloused bearing a strong entering callous ridge above.
Canal very short deep and narrow.
Length 27 diam.
13.5 longest axis of aperture 11.5 mm.
Length 29 diam.
14 longest axis of aperture 11.5 mm.
Loo Choo Islands Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80631 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
279 of Mr. Hirase' s collection.
The sculpture is much more feeble than in C. morus or its immediate allies though some forms referable to morus resemble this species in form.
The figure of C. janellii var.
in the zoology of the Astrolabe d Zelee Atlas PL 24 fig.
22 resembles C. chemnitzianum somewhat but differs iu the plicate spire.
la the monographs by Reeve Tryon and Kobelt I fail to find anything much like the present species.
This shell is named for the author of the most extensive shell iconography of the eighteenth century a work of utility up to this day.
Would that A. Adams a hundred years later had defined his species lialf as well
is one's thought on working with Japanese mollusks.
LITTORINID.
Echinella cumingi var.
luchuana Pils.
PI.
XIX fig.
IG.
See p. 198.
Types are No.
70902 Coll.
A. N. S. P. This variety resembles Tectarius spinulosa Phil.
Abbild.
Ill Littorina PI.
6 f. 24 but that is imperforate while this has an open cylindrical umbilicus.
PYRAMIDELLID.
Syrnola bacillum u. sp I'l.
XXI fig.
25.
Shell slender rodlike marbled reddishbrown and white with a uarrow baud of alternate brown and white spots revolving midway between sutures and on the middle of the upier surface of the last w'horl which has a white peripheral belt this coloring sometimes very faiut.
Nuclear whorl standing obliquely on edge the very short spire iuclined downward subsequent whorls 12 or 13 flat separated by deeply cut sutures sculptured with faint growth lines and an impressed line revolving below the suture some very faint spirals showing elsewhere iu certain lights.
Periphery rounded the base convex subperforate.
Aperture small narx'owly ovate columella bearing a single strong fold.
Length 9.7 diam.
2 longest axis of aperture 2 mm.
 diam.
of the upturned apical whorl .27 mm Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hi rase.
Types No.
80605 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1239 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A very narrow species with a particular style of coloration which at times however is very faint.
The widely distributed Syrnola brnnnea also occurs at the same locality.
S. aciculata A.
Ad. of which I have compared specimens from Fiji is a larger species with more convex whorls.
TURBONILLID.
Turbonilla varicifera Pils.
PI.
XXI fig.
27.
See p. 198.
Types are No.
80603 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1238 part of Mr. Hirase's collection.
EULIMID.
Eulima dunkeriana n. sp.
PI.
XXI Alt.
30.
A glossy white straight species remarkably thick above being thus somewhat cylindric.
Whorls 9 a trifle convex the linear suture being margined below at least on ihe upper half of the shell with a translucent band sometimes enclosing a white band onefourth to onethird the width of the whorl the lower margin of which in some lights looks like the suture itself though there is no impression at that place.
At the last halfwhorl there is an impressed varixline  another in liue with it is on the preceding whorl while the next earlier whorl shows a similar impression somewhat in advance of these.
On another specimen about 1 mm.
shorter and evidently not full grown there is on the last whorl a single varixline.
The aperture is narrowly and acutely ovate lip simple a little obtuse.
Length 11.2 diam.
2.6 longest axis of the aperture 3.2 mm.
Hirado Hizen Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80637 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1222 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Close to E. philippiann Dunker' which was taken at Kamakura by Mr. Frederick Stearns but E. dunkeriana dilfers in the much broader foim. E. philipjnana has not been well figured.
A specimen from Kamakura before mo has an impressed varixline near the end of the penultimate whorl and only falling a little  Erroneously referred to the genus Eulimella by Danker.
short of corrcspoading with the position of the peristome another ou line with it is upon the preceding whorl the next earlier whorl has a varixline near its beginning almost a whorl being thus without a varix A young shell 6 ram.
long has one varixline on the back of the penultimate whorl.
E. jhilippiana measures alt.
10.2 diam.
2.15 longest axis of aperture 2.67 mm Dunker gives alt.
11 diam.
2 mm.
for the type.
Evidently these species have resting stages at irregular intervals and the varixlines are inconstant in position and number.
Both of these species are remarkable for the thickness of the upper part of the spire though this feature is more exaggerated in E. dunkeriana.
Eulima luchuana n. sp.
PI.
XXI fig.
2i.
Shell white and glossy conic curved slightly to the right that margin being about straight while the left side is a little convex regularly tapering 9 whorls remaining the apex being decollate slightly convex the penultimate whorl having an impressed varixline at its last sixth the preceding whorl with one on line with the peristome the next earlier whorl with a varixline corresponding in position to that on the penultimate whorl the varices thus being all on the right or incurved side.
Apei'tuie ovateacuminate the lip a little obtuse.
Alt.
12 diam.
3.85 longest axis of aperture 4.15 mm.
Loo Choo Islands Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80628 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1275 of Mr. Hirase' s collection.
The aperture is longer than in E. nitidula A.
Ad. which though a smaller species is described as having 11 whorls.
Assiminea angustata n. spShell minute imperforate or nearly so long ovateconic solid redbrown glossy and smooth.
Whorls about 5i rather flattened the last one convex.
Aperture small roundedovate oblique peristome simple the columellar and parietal margins somewhat thickened.
Length 3 diam.
1.7 longest axis of aperture 1.2 mm.
Rishiri Kitami Mr. Y. Hirase No.
1277 of marine mollusk list.
Unusually lengthened for Assiminea but with the color aud texture of that genus though it may possibly be Rissoid.
NERITID.
Nerita martensiana n. sp.
Shell globose small solid rather bright sulphur yellow paler and somewhat mottled with gray or blackish toward the aperture.
Surface dull sculptured with low rather coarse spii'al cords about 15 on the last whorl the upper one appressed against the preceding whorl.
Spire short whorls about 3 the last a little depressed below the suture which is bordered below by a somewhat more prominent cord.
Aperture semicircular yellow or Avhitish liprib smooth with a small tubercle above and another well within near the base of the columella.
Columellar area white or yellowish flat and smooth the outer border well defined edge of columella straight with two or three low subobsolete teeth the upper one strongest.
Alt.
10 diam.
9.5 mm.
Loo Choo Islands Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80489 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
729 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Small as this species is the specimens are apparently adult.
The smooth columellar area wnth welldefined outer margin weak deuticulatiou and smooth rib within the outer lip are its more prominent characters.
I find no species agreeing with these sjecimens in the monographs the best of which is that by Prof von Martens in the new edition of Chemnitz.
Nerita helicinoides var.
tristis nov.
Shell black with some white spots along the basal margin and sometimes a few angular pink and white spots elsewhere.
Columella threenotched in the middle area smooth yellowtinted in the middle liprib weakly crenulate a small denticle near its upper end.
Alt.
13 diam.
11 mm.
Loo Choo Islands Mr. Y. Hirase No.
218.
Types No.
80406 CoU.
A. N. S. P. This variety is like tne typical form in the deuticulatiou of columella and lip.
In var.
Icevilabris Pils.
the liprib is smooth throughout and the columellar denticles very weak these characters being constant in a large number of specimens.
N. helicinoides is apparently closely related to the small form of y. striata Burrow described by Prof von Martens in the new edition of Chemnitz p. 39 PI.
7 figs.
19 20.
TROCHID.
Cantharidus hirasei Pils.
Page 199.
PI.
XXI fig.
32.
Cantharidus bisbalteatus Pils.
Page 199.
PI.
XXI fig.
33.
Clanculus gemmulifer Pils.
Page 200.
PI.
XXI fig.
34.
ClaECulus hizenensis Pils.
Page 20i.
PI.
XXI fig.
35.
Some of A. Adams' blanket descriptions might cover these species but none of them indicate the specific characters of either of them.
The sane judgment of scientific malacologists now demands that a description shall describe.
TURBINID.
Leptothyra rubra var.
laevicostata nov.
Shell depressedglobose coralred with pale and red dots alternating on the ribs.
Whorls 4 the last deeply descending anteriorly.
Sculpture of about 8 rather strong almost smooth spiral ribs above and upon the I'ounded peripheral region with one or several fine threads in some of the interspaces 8 to 10 smaller closer smooth ribs upon the rather flattened base.
Alt.
hardly 4 diam.
5 mm.
Northern shore of province Tango western side of Hondo M. R. Gaines.
Types No.
70704 Coll.
A. N. S. P. Specimens from Mr. Hirase taken at Hirado Hizen vary from coralred to almost purple and some of them are rather larger with the .spire elevated the largest measuring alt.
5.2 diam.
5.5 mm.
This form difiers from L. rubra Dkr. 
in the smoothness of the spiral ribs which are not rougher than in the Mediterranean L. sanjuinea L.  and in the smaller size rubra measuring alt.
scarcely 6 diam.
6 to 6 mm.
In L. sangalnea the ribs of the base are not noticeably smaller as they are in all of the Japanese Lejitothyras I have seen.
Perhaps this variety is what Dunker and others have reported from Japan as sanrjainea L. AOMuEID.
Acmaea heroldi var.
signata Pils.
PL XIX figs.
10 11.
See p. 202.
Types No.
80497 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
748 of Mr. Hirase' s coJiection.
SOLENIDuE.
Solen roseomaculatus n. sp.
PL XIX lig.
13.
Shell small thin moderately curved the upper aud lower margins parallel both ends truncated with rather rounded angles compressed open at both ends glossy and smooth except for faint growth sti'ite.
White with very irregular more or less confluent purplishroseate maculation throughout the spots coarser toward the distal end.
Beaks roseate.
Anterior end obliquely truncate the margins narrowly expanded or flaring thickened within.
A single prominent erect tooth in each valve that in the right valve anterior to the other and compressed that in the left triangular being buttressed posteriorly.
Length 31 alt.
6.3 diam.
3.8 mm.
Hirado Hizen western Kiusiu Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80565 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1014 of Mr. Hirase' s collection.
This rosevariegated little Solen is curved like an Ensis and has some similarity to S. pidus Philippi'S. vaginoides Pbil. non Lam.
 S. jhillppkums Dkr. 
and S. asperstis Dkr.
' Solen pictus is comparatively shorter and markedly inflated or cyliudric while the present Japanese species is strongly compressed.
S' pldlippianiis measures 66 by a little over 10 mm.
 2 8' lang und wenig iiber b' hoch and is thus a narrower shell and it is more attenuated anteriorly with smeared coloration according to the figure.
S. aspersua is decidedly more slender and anteriorly below it is more squarecornered.
The proportions of the three species are as follows the altitude aud diameter being compared with the length Lcii.ijth.
Alt.
Diam.
S. roseomaculatus 1 I  of the length.
S. jihilippianus 1  . 
 S aspersus 1      S. jnctm 1 I i  'Philippi ZeUschr.f.
Malal 18iS p. 17 i. Habitat nuknowii.
It has not been figiired to my knowletlge.
Philippi Ahhild.
v. Beschreib etc. I Solen PI.
1 fig.
3.
From Xew Holland.
' Dunker Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond  1861 p. 420 under S. aspersus.
' Dunker I. c Australia.
The type has been figured in Conch.
Icon. XIX Solen PI.
7 fig.
'iZa.
PETRICOLID.
Petricola cyclus Pils.
PI.
XIX figs.
3 4.
Seep.
204.
Types are No.
80580 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1199 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
It has .some merely superficial resemblance to P. typica Jonas.
Petricola cyclus var.
sculpturata Pils.
PI.
xrx fig.
7.
See p. 205.
Types are No.
10130 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from Puttalam Ceylon.
VENERID.
Venus Hirasei PHs.
PI.
XIX flg l  PI.
XX flg.
20.
See p. 205.
Types No.
80447 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
492 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
It is curiously like the Panamic T.
columbiensis Sowb. but ditiers in having fewer ribs separated by much wider intervals and a deeper narrower pallial sinus.
The cardinal teeth are more deeply bifid than in V. columhiensis.
The largest specimen I have seen measures length 52 alt.
44 diam.
33 mm.
It is from Oyama Tsushima.
Tapes platyptycha Piis.
PI.
XIX fig.
6.
Page 206.
Types are No.
81218 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1196 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Tapes phenax Pils.
PI.
XIX fig.
5.
Page 207.
Tpes are No.
80436 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
432 of Mr. Hirase's collection DONACIDuE.
Donax kiusiuensis Pils.
PI.
XX fig.
19.
Page 207.
Types are No.
80505 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
847 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
TELLINID.
Tellina Merisca pristiformis .
sp.
PI.
XIX.
fig.
8.
Shell equilateral subtriangular slightly inequivalve the posterior end being bent to the right moderately convex solid white.
Surface dull and lustreless sculptured with densely crowded fine concentric lamelhe a little stronger and more spaced toward the two ends the intervals sculptured with fine subobsolete radial striae which are fainter in the middle and often hardly perceptible anywhere even with a lens.
Beaks somewhat prominent small and in contact.
Anterior end rounded the slope above straight posterior slope straight or slightly convex finely serrate the posterior end narrowly subrostrate and bi angular the right valve having two prominent posterior keels the space between tliem concave left valve with one posterior keel a narrow furrow close before it with a slighter second depression the basal margin well rounded ascending and sometimes slightly sinuous behind.
Lunule lanceolate very deeply cut bounded by acute ridges that of the right valve rising well above the left and with a wider excavation.
Area also deeply excavated bounded by keels the ligament prominent.
Interior white the hinge strong with two cardinal teeth in each valve the left anterior tooth and the right posterior bifid.
Left valve without laterals right valve with low distant anterior and posterior lateral teeth.
Hingeline straight behind the beak concave in front.
Pallial sinus very large reaching to within a millimeter or two of the anterior adductor scar confluent with the palUal line below for about half its length.
Scars of the cruciform muscle distinct.
Length 38 alt.
29.5 diam.
11.5 mm.
Inland Sea of Japan.
Types No.
71029 Coll.
A. N. S. P. This species is closely related to T. pridis Lam.
and T. concentrica Gld It has a Avider lunule than the former its bounding keels without the irregularity  ' saw ' ' or serration seen in T. prisfis.
The posterior area is more deeply excavated the posterior keel of the right valve is stronger and the end is much more bent to the right.
The hingeplate is wdder and the anterior lateral tooth is further removed from the cardinals.
Finally the dorsal slopes are steeper meeting at a smaller angle and hence the whole outline is more triangular.
In T. concentrica Gld.
Fiji Islands the form is more elongate the lunule and posterior area far less impressed and the interior is more glossy with shallower less distinct muscular scars and the shell is thinner.
T. diaphana Desh.
difiers by having the pallial sinus abut against the anterior adductor scar according to Deshayes' description.
T. siamensis v. Martens is a longer less high species by the description.
It has not been figured so far as I can learn and is doubtfully distinct from T. diaphana Desh.
26 ANATINID.
Anatina impura I'ilsPiXIX tig.
0. rage 208.
Types are Nos.
68536 and 70812 Coll.
A. N. S. P. LIMIDiE.
Lima Mans var.
hirasei Pils.
PI.
XIX fig.
12.
Page 209.
Types No.
80525 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
901 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Closely allied to L. Mans Gm.
of Europe but the sculpture is finer the gape of both ends less widely open and the anterior rib inside is not so strong.
ARCID.
Area nipponensis Pils.
PI.
XIX fig.
2.
See p. 209.
Types are No.
79009 Coll.
A. N. S. P. Land and Freshvater Species.
Buliminus reinianus var.
hokkaidonis nov.
Similar to reinianus except in being shorter and broader with very obtuse apex the upper part of the spire broader.
Whorls 8.
Length 23 diam.
above aperture 8 longest axis of aperture 9 mm.
Kayabe and Shukunobe prov.
Ojima Hokkaido.
Typical B. reinianus is not known from Hokkaido Island.
I now believe that it will be difficult if indeed practicable or desirable to distinguish extorris or omiensis as races distinct from the variable reinianus though typically the forms are separable.
There is also a rather small and more striate form of the species occurring at Okinoshima and some other places in Shikoku Island but I have not seen enough specimens to be satisfied that it requires varietal distinction.
HELICID.
Mandarina mandarina var.
ponderosa nov.
Shell large and very heavy reddishbrown or purpleblack with a light umbilical patch whorls 5 the last one distinctly carinated at the periphery.
Surface coarsely decussate the impressed spiral lines being much stronger than in the typical form.
Alt.
21 diam.
28 ram.
 alt.
19 diam.
26 mm.
Ogasawara Bouiu Islands Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80812 Coll.
A. N. S. from 4676 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
As yet we know nothing of the distribution of species on the several islands of this little group the investigation of which will be of the greatest interest.
We look to Mr. Hirase to throw light upon it.
Trishoplita daoostag var.
awajiensis nov.
Shell depressedconoicZ thin hardly glossy corneous with a faint brown tint often in streaks paler or a little whitish below the sutures.
Spires somewhat elevated whorls 5f the last obtusely subangular in front.
Sculpture of slight rather irregular growthstrine a strong lens showing some almost obsolete spiral striae near the umbilicus.
Aperture oblique shortoval almost round a little excised by the parietal wall.
Peristome thin narrowly expanded and subreflexed.
Alt.
6.2 diam.
9 mm.
 width of umbilicus about 1 mm.
Anaya Awaji Island Mr. Y. Hirase No.
6415.
This form is duller more couoidal with the last whorl more depressed than T. goodwini var.
kyotoensis.
It is smaller than T. dacoske with the aperture less rounded.
It is the first Trislioiilita known from Awaji Island.
Trishoplita goodwini var.
strigata nov.
Shell similar in general characters to T. goodwini but rather faintly streaked obliquely with brown on a whitish corneous ground usually whitish below the suture.
Finely obliquely striate and densely decussate by close spirals.
Whorls 5f to 6.
Alt.
9 diam.
13 width of umbilicus 1 mm.
Hirado Hizen in western Kiusiu Mr. Y. Hirase.
Type No.
78844 Coll.
A. N. S. P. No.
344 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form was recognized as somewhat ditferent from the typical T. goodidni of Hondo when received from Mr. Hirase about a year ago but I did not then think it desirable to distinguish it by name.
Since such forms of goodidni as tosana and daeostce have beeti so distinguished it would seem advisable to recognize this also.
Upon the whole it is well to have names for these subspecies which have become differentiated in various areas of the empire.
T. goodwini var.
strigata differs from tosana and daeostce by its decussate surface.
ZONITID.
Kaliella subcrenulata n. sp.
Shell narrowly perforate depressedtrochiform pale brown somewhat trauslucent.
Sculpture of very flue close threadlike stride and subobsolete spiral stria the base smooth.
Spire conic the apex obtuse.
Whorls 4 nearly flat the last acutely carinate in the middle the carina smoothedged base very convex.
Aperture narrow somewhat rhombic peristome simple.
Alt.
1.5 diara.
2.4 mm.
Kochi Tosa Shikoku Island Mr. Y. Hirase.
Similar to K. cremdata Gude but much more depressed.
It occurred with specimens of K. cremdata Gude and an elevated variety of K. midfiolvis Pils.
K. ruida Pils.
is a larger and more coarsely sculptured but evidently allied species.
Kaliella lioderma n. sp.
Shell perforate pyramidal with flattened base obtuse apex and straight lateral outlines pale yellowishcorneous.
Whorls 7 rather convex the last acutely carinate somewhat convex below.
Surface glossy smooth except for slight growthstrije.
Aperture basal rhombic nearly twice as wide as high peristome simple the margins remote the columellar margin reflexed.
Alt.
2.5 diam.
2.2 mm.
Kashima Harima Mr. Y. Hirase.
More elevated than K. cremdata and distinguished by its plain smooth surface.
Kaliella harimensis n. sp.
Shell perforate obtusely conoidal fragile amber colored translucent.
Whorls 5 Comdex slowly increasing the nucleus rather large last whorl obtusely subangular in front elsewhere rounded at the periphery the base convex.
Sculpture of extremely fine densely crowded threadlike stria3 above giving the surface a somewhat silken lustre almost obsolete on the glossy base which shows weak spiral stride near the middle.
Aperture truncatecresceutie the peristome thin a little reflexed at the perforation.
Alt.
2 diam.
2h mm.
Kashima Harima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
655.
This species is much more depressed than the allied K. pagoduhides Gude.
It has not the peripheral keel of K. fraterna Pils.
REALTID.
Omphalotropis japonicus n. sp.
Shell narrowly umbilicate acutely ovateconic rather thin yellowish brown surface glossy and smooth.
Spire straightly conic the apex rather acute.
Whorls 6 convex the last with a strong basal keel around the umbilicus.
Aperture slightly oblique ovate the outer and basal margins of the peristome a trifle expanded columellar margin reflexed.
Length 5.8 diameter 3.5 length of aperture 2.5 mm.
Kashiwashima Tosa Shikoku Island Mr. Y. Hirase No.
588.
This is I believe tlie first Omphalotropls found in Japan.
AMNICOLID.
Bithynia striatula var.
japonica nov.
Shell pale amber tinted or corneous glossy similar to B. striatula of China but differing in sculpture the spiral ridges being much stronger 3 or 4 large and irregularly spaced ones above the periphery those on the base smaller and closer.
Alt.
10 specimens with the early whorls lost by erosion diam.
6.5 mm.
 longest axis of aperture 5 mm.
Manabe Hidachi type locality and Osaka Mr. Y. Hirase.
Types No.
80683 Coll.
A. N. S. from No.
152 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Specimens from Osaka have less strong sculpture than those from the province Hidachi though it is still stronger than in any Chinese specimens of B. striatula in the series before me.
The peristome is rather less expanded too though well thickened in adults and either black Manabe or pale Osaka.
B. striatula has already been reported from Japan by Prof von Martens'' who in ltt60 found it at Yokohama on the muddy bank of the small river at the first bridge in quite fresh water.
I suppose it was this strongly sculptured form which he found.
The Vega Expedition collected shells identified by Westerlund as B. striatula at Jokogava near Tokyo and at Lake Biwa Vega Exp. IV p. 182.
In China the species is widely diffused from the Yangtse to the Amur drainages and Pere Heude has split it into some four species.
Of i Sitzungsber.
nnturf.
Freunde zu Berlin 1877 p. 114.
B. striatula was described from Clnisan as Paludina BiiJiinia striatula Bens. Journ.
Asiat.
Soc.
Beng. XXIV 1885 p. 131.
Schmacker found it at Shanghai.
1' Memoires concernant V Hist.
Nat.
de l' Empire Ohinois pp.
171 172. these his B. chineisis seems to me to be typical B. striatxda while B. spiralis is a more slender B. scalaris a stouter form perhaps not more than varietally distinct.
B. striatula Bens of Heude is a strongly keeled form certainly not the typical striatula of Benson.
His identification of it was possibly due to a remark of von Martens in Jahrb.
D. Mai Ges. 11 1875 p. 133.
I have no great faith in the distinctness of any of these supposed species  but if several Chinese forms are to be distinguished the Japanese shells evidently deserve at least varietal rank.
They are nearer B. striatula Heude non Benson than to any other of the Chinese varieties.
SPHRIIDJE.
Sphserium inutilis n. sp.
Shell oval much inflated thin equilateral grayishbrown with a pale basal zone glossy minutely striate anterior end curved in a semicircle posterior end a little more obtuse though still well curved.
Beaks small projecting  calyculate  or tipped with a distinctly demarked protoconch.
Interior bluishwhite cardinal teeth subobsolete extremely compressed parallel with the hingeline divided in the right valve single in the left lateral teeth moderately strong double in the right single in the left valve.
Length 10 alt.
8.6 diam.
6.2 mm.
Nishigo Uzen Mr. Y. Hirase.
Three species of Sihceriuni are now known from Japan  S.
jcfponicum Westerlund ' S. heterodon Pilsbry and the present sjecies.
All belong to the subgenus Cahjeulina.
S. jajjonicum is an elongate  subtrapeziform  species.
S. inutilis differs from S. heterodon in having higher beaks a more curved hingeline rounded ends and it is more globose.
No Pisidium or Cyrena is yet known from Japan proper although the latter genus occurs in the middle group of the Loo Choo Islands.
CYRENID.
Corbicula sadoensis n. sp.
Shell triangularoval moderately inflated solid glossy nearly black in adults sculptured with very close irregularly raised and  Calyculina japonica West. Nachr''bl.
d. D. Malak.
Ges. 1883 p. 58 April Vega Exp. IV p. 216 PI.
6 fig.
31 from Jokogava near Tokyo.
 Catd. Mar.
Moll.
Jap. p. 159 PI.
3 figs.
15 16 17 from Hizen in Kiusiu.
threadlike concentric striae.
Beaks moderately raised and full deeply eroded in adults.
Interior whitish or light violet outside of the pallial line.
Hinge rather narrow the cardinal teeth slightly grooved at their summits  anterior and posterior laterals of equal length single in the left double in the right valve.
Length 33 ale.
27 diam.
18 mm.
Sado Japan Mr. Y. Hirase.
It fills me with sadness to add another Corbicula to the Japanese fauna but these specimens cannot without violence be referred to any of those known.
C. martensi Clessin is perhaps the nearest but aadoeusis is more transverse the lateral teeth diverge at a wider angle and the stripe are far closer.
The very close comparatively fine striation is the chief differential character of the species distinguishing it from all the other forms.
Corbicula awajiensis n. sp.
Shell oval compressed the diameter about half and the alt.
threefourths the length bright yellowish green with buff spotsand patches toward the beaks strongly and regularly ribbed concentrically.
Beaks rather low not projecting much eroded and deep violet.
iSTearly equilateral the anterior end sometimes slightly narrower the two ends about equally rounded upper and lower margins equally and similarly curved.
Interior dark violet with a darker often lightbordered spot under the beaks.
Hinge delicate the cardinal teeth small anterior and posterior laterals of about equal length somewhat curved very strongly crenulate double in the right single in the left valve.
Length 16 alt.
12 diam.
8 mm.
Noda Awaji Mr. Y. Hirase.
The valvemargins newed from within are seen to form a symmetrical oval figure the upper and lower borders having almost exactly the same curvature and the anterior and posterior ends beiug about equal.
There is no suggestion of the subtriangular shape of most Japanese species of Corbicula.
The beaks are low and the sculpture strong and regular.
It is a small species the first known from Awaji Island and seems quite distinct from any other.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES XIX XX XXI.
Plate XIX figures natural size Fig.
1.
 Vemis Idrasei.
pp.
205 400.
Fig.
2.
 Area nipponensis pp.
209 403.
Figs.
3 4.
 Petricoln cyclus pp.
204 400.
Fig.
5.
 Tapes plienax p. 207.
Fig.
6.
 Tapes platyptycJui p. 206.
Fig.
7.
 Peiricola cyclus var.
scuJpturata p. 205 Ceylon.
Fig.
8.
 Tellina pristiformis p. 400.
Fig.
9.
 Anatina wipura pp.
208 402.
Figs.
10 11.
 Acmcea heroldi vkv.
njiiatt p. 202.
Fig.
12.
 Lima Mans var.
hirasei pp.
209 402.
Fig.
13.
 Solen roseomaculatus p. 399.
Figs.
14 15.
 CeritMum chemnitziaiium p. 393.
Fig.
16.
 Echinella cumingi hichuana pp.
198 394.
Fig.
17.
 Euthria Jiokkaidonis p. 389.
Fig.
18  Peristernia tistulata var.
luchuana pp.
197 390.
Plate XX fig.
19 much enlarged the others natural size Fig.
19.
 Donax kiusiuensis p. 400.
Fig.
20.
 Venus hirasei p. 400.
Fig.
21.
 Girysodomus intersculptus a.T.
frater pp.
197 391.
Fig.
22.
 Buccinmn Jiirasei p. 391.
Fig.
23.
 Chrysodomus pericocJilion p. 391.
Plate XXI figures much enlarged.
Fig.
24.
 Tritonidea submenkeana p. 387.
Fig.
25.
 Syrnola bacillum p. 394.
 Fig.
26.
 Daphnella frag His var.
artieulata p. 365.
Fig.
27.
 Turhonilla taricifera pp.
198 395.
Fig.
28.
 Mitra vanattai p. 387.
Fig.
29.
 Eulima luchuana p. 396.
Fig.
30.
 Eulima dunkcriana p. 395.
Fig.
31.
 Mitra hizenensis p. 386.
Fig.
32.
 Cantharidus hirasei p. 199.
Fig.
33.
 Vanthctriilus hislalteatus p. 199.
Fig.
34.
 Clanculus jemmulifer p. 200.
Fig.
35.
 Clanculus hizenensis pp.
201 398.
Fig.
36.
 Columhella misera Yx.
calif arnica p. 390.
Figs.
37 38.
 Colmnhella miser a p. 389.
Fig.
39.
 Columhella misera var.
polynyma pp.
196 390.
