NEW LAND MOLLUSCA OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Eulota (^gista) aperta v.u-.
trachyderma Pils.
and Gurte, iiov.
Resembling E. aperta iu general characters, but smaller, more depressed, less distinctly angular at the perij^hery in front, whorls 5^ to 5f ; base a little more widely umbilicate.
Surface densely clothed with short, crowded, thread-like cuticular processes, visible only under a lens, and in large part rubbed off of most specimens.
Peristome thin, expanded, narrowly reflexed below.
Alt.
6f, diam.
12 mm.
Alt.
5, diam 10^ mm.
Ikoma, Kii.
Types No.
82,464, Coll.
A. N. S. P, from No.
787 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Eulota (Euhadra) luhuana var.
pachya nov. A fossil form characterized by the thickness of the large shell, the somewhat swollen latter third of the base, which is also swollen immediately around th6 umbilicus.
The peristome is very thick and heavy, especially along the columellar margin.
Traces of a reddish band above the periphery, and copious opaque-white streaks and flecks are visible on some specimens.
The type measures, alt.
23, diam.
46 mm.
Kikai-ga-shima, Oshiina group, Osumi.
Types No.
81,921, Coll.
A. N. S. P., from No.
682 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Eulota luhuana var.
nesiotica nov.
In this race the shell is rather small, comparatively smooth and glossy, with slightly flattened base, passing into the umbilicus in a regular curve, not in the least angular.
Umbilicus much smaller than in any other known form of luhuana, rapidly contracting within.
Yellow, either uniform or with reddishbrown bands according to the formuhv 00300, 00340, 00345.
Alt.
22^, diam.
35, diam.
of umbilicus 3 mm.
; whorls 6^.
Alt.
20^, diam.
30|, diam.
of umbilicus 2§ mm.
; whorls 6.
Tane-ga-shinia, Osumi (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
736).
The absence of any trace of angulation around the umbilicus, and the small size of the latter, give this race an appearance of distinctness.
Clausilia ducalis Kobelt.
This magnificent species was described from a specimen of unknown locality further than the indefiDite " interior of Nippon " which served as habitat for Rein's Japanese collection.
The type is described as yellowish horn-colored, and 36 mm.
long, 8 wide, the aperture 9 mm.
long.
Mr, Hirase has lately sent specimens from Miya-mura, in Hida Province, which agree with ducalis in the brilliant gloss and large apex, but have the last two whorls <iark vinaceous-browu, with a yellow sutural border and sprinkled with fine yellow dots; the two next earlier whorls are rather bright yellow, still earlier ones are worn.
Length 32 J to 34^, diam.
8 mm.
It is a magnificent species.
At Kiyomi-mura, Hida, an interesting variety occurs, the shell being longer and narrower, less glossy, the surface more striate, last whorl more cylindric.
Color light olivaceous yellow.
Length 35, diam.
6i mm.
; whorls 11|^.
This race I call var.
dorcas.
Some specimens are shorter, length 28^, diam.
6^ mm.
; whorls 10.
Truncatella kiusiueusis n»]>■ Shell nearly cylindric, slightly tapering, pale red, composed of 4^ Avhorls, the upper one truncate and plugged.
Sculpture of strong, regular, nearly straight ribs, about 20 on the last whorl.
There is a high, narrow rib behind the outer and basal lips, and a rounded rib or prominence around the umbilical region.
Aperture oval; the inner lip covered with a heavy callus.
Alt.
7, diam.
2.6 mm.
Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
844a).
Also Taue-gashima (Hirase, No.
811c).
This is one of the few Old World species of Truncatella in which there is a rib or crest behind the lip.
It differs in this respect from T. valida Pfr., which is found in Okinawa or Riukiu Island.
The latter is also larger and has more numerous, smaller ribs.
Tnmeatella Pfelferi 3Iarteus is the only species of the genus hitherto reported from Japau.
It was described from a specimen or specimens in the Leyden ]\Iuseum, collected by Siebokl, and bearing the locality " Japau."
It has not been figured, but from the description it differs from T. kiusiuensis in being shorter and wider, with the ribs disappearing on the last whorl.
No crest or rib behind the lip is mentioned.
