NOTICES OF NEW LAND SNAILS FROM THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.
EY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Continuiug his zoological researches in the islands south of Kiusiu, Mr. Hirase has had the two principal islands of the *' Northeastern group " of the Loo Choo chain explored for land snails.
These islands, Tane-ga-shima and Yaku-no-shima (Yakushima), belong politically to the Province of Osumi, and hence in Japan are not ordinarily included in the Loo Choo Islands.
I shall discuss their faunal relations more fully at another time, but it may be said here that while there is one species of land snail, Trochomorpha Gouldiana Pils., identical with a species of Oshima, the rest of the fauna, though composed almost wholly of endemic species, is more nearly related to that of Kiusiu than to the Loo Choo fauna proper.
OYOLOPHORID^.
Spiropoma Nakadai n. sp.
Shell discoidal, with very wide, bowl-shaped umbilicus, and nearly flat spire, except that the first whorl projects when not worn; solid, yellowish-brown, rather dull, sculptured Avith slight growthlines only.
Whorls 4^, convex, the last one very deeply descending in front.
Aperture quite oblique, nearly circular, the peristome built forward, becoming free from the preceding whorl, and a little contracted.
Diam.
10, alt.
4.8 mm.
; diam.
9, alt.
4.7 mm.
Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
658).
In the larger S. jcqmnicum the last whorl descends much less in front; the peristome is expanded and not so much, usually not at all, built forward.
It is named for Mr. Nakada, an earnest and successful collector for Mr. Hirase.
Spiropoma is a new name recently substituted for Cozlopoma, which was found to bo j^reoccupicd.
Pupinella rufa var.
tanegashimae nov.
Smaller than P. rufa from Hondo, Awaji or Kiusiu, or the Tsushima or Iki forms; whorls 6; peristome very heavy.
Alt.
9.5, diam.
above aperture 4.3 mm.
; alt.
8.3, diam.
4 mm.
Pupinella Funatoi n^]iThis species differs from P. rufa in being much smaller, with only 5^ whorls, the spire more abruptly tapering above; more solid; darker colored.
The aperture is vertical, the lower margin not in the least carried forward as it is in P. rufa.
The whole peristome is exceedingly thick and strong, with an inner elevated rim about the orifice.
The posterior orifice is not channel-like; and the columellar orifice is a small slit, which does not deeply penetrate the lip, as it does in P. rufa.
A glossy callus spreads much further up on the ventral face of the whorl than in P. rufa.
Length 7^, diam.
above aperture oh mm.
Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
665a).
It seems curious that there should be a slightly differentiated race of the widespread P. rufa, and a well-characterized species of the same genus, on so small an island as Tane-ga-shima.
This species is named for Mr. Funato, one of the efticient assistants who have enabled Mr. Hirase to make such notable additions to our knowledge of Japanese mollusks.
Diplommatina tanegasliimse n. sp.
Shell small, obese, pupiform, light red, composed of 5^ convex whorls, the penultimate whorl widest, those above tapering regularly; last whorl much contracted.
Sculpture of widely spaced, delicate riblets on the spire, the last two whorls with very much finer, far closer rib-strire.
Aperture circular, the peristome expanded, thickened Avithiu, slightly duplicate.
Columellar tooth strong and acute; palatal plica short, distinct, situated above the columella.
Length 2.6, diam.
1.6 mm.
Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
668).
Somewhat allied to D. saginata, of Oshima.
HELIOINID^.
Helicina yaeyamensis n. sp.
Shell very small for the genus, thin, rather pale red, dull, faintly marked with growth-lines, and a few spiral striae are usually developed ; shaped like H. verecunda.
Whorls 4i, con32 vex, the last rounded at the periphery, a little compressed above and below.
Aperture oblique, semicircular, the outer lip simple, unexpanded, 7iot thickened.
Umbilical callus whitish, rather large and densely pitted.
Alt.
2.2, diam.
3.3 mm.
Yaeyama, in the southwestern group of the Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase, >so.
624).
Types No.
80,967 Coll.
A. N. S. P. About half the dimensions of H. verecimcht of Okinawa, but with tlie same number of whorls, and a simple, unexpanded lip.
I at first supposed the specimens were young, but the receipt of a second lot from Mr. Hirase, agreeing in size and other characters with the first, indicates that they are full grown.
ZONITIDuE.
Microcystina Hiraseana nsp.
Shell trochiform, with minute, nearly covered perforation; brown, glossy and smooth, slightly transparent.
The periphery has a narrow, acute, projecting keel, visible in the suture above.
Spire conic, the apex obtuse.
Whorls 5^, quite convex ; base convex, narrowly impressed in the centre.
Aperture shaped like a crescent with truncate ends, slightly oblique; peristome simple and acute, the columellar margin reflexed at the perforation, thickened within with a white callus, sometimes sinuous.
Alt.
3, diam.
3.5 mm.
Tane-gashima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
667).
This species resembles 31. ceratodes (Gude) in general features, but is more elevated, with more exserted keel, a less varnish-like gloss, and more closely coiled whorls.
MacrocWamys tanegashimae n. sp.
Siiell small, depressed, minutely perforate, smooth and glossy, rich brown, somewhat translucent.
Spire low-conoidal, obtuse at the apex.
Whorls 4^, moderately convex, rather closely revolving, appressed at the suture, which appears margined; the last whorl nearly double the width of the preceding, rounded at the periphery, moderately convex beneath.
Aperture crescentic, slightly oblique, the lip simple and thin, abruptly reflexed at the columellar insertion.
Alt.
nearly 2, diam.
3.8 mm.
Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
666).
About the size and general appearance of the shell I called Vitrea Iiariiaeusis, but which I subsequently decided to be young Macrochlamys Doenitzi (Reiuh.
); but the species from Tane-gashima has a narrower umbilical perforation, and the spire is more developed, with an additional whorl.
CLAUSILIID^.
Clausilia oscariana n. sp.
Shell fusiform, rather slender, not subject to truncation, brown, finely striate, the last whorl more coarsely so.
Whorls lOi to 11-|, the upper part of the spire decidedly attenuated.
Aperture piriform, the peristome thickened and reflexed, with several more or less distinct folds on its face, adjacent to the subcolumellar lamella.
Superior lamella rather small, oblicpie, not connected with the spii'al lamella.
Inferior lamella deeply I'ecediug, straightened and subvertically ascending within.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Principal plica long.
Lunella curved inward above, straightened and connected with a short palatal plica below, being thus shaped like an inverted letter J.
Length 12-14.5, diam.
2.8-3.3 mm.
Fukuregi, Province of Higo, Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
674).
This Hemiphcedasa belongs to the group of C. plieUabris A.
Ad.
(bilabrata Smith), but this is a much smaller species and difters in various structural characters.
It is named in honor of Dr. Oscar Boettger, the acute and lucid master in the study of ClausiliidoB.
Clausilia higoensis Q. sp.
Shell fusiform, very much attenuated above, brown, finely striate, the last whorl tapering.
Whorls 10, the last more coarsely striate dorsally, having a low, inconspicuous wave or prominence behind the outer lip.
Aperture piriform, the peristome slightly reflexed, somewhat thickened.
Superior lamella rather small, oblique, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella deeply receding, rather straightly ascending inside.
Subcolumellar lamella immersed, or nearly emerging.
Principal plica extending beyond the lateral lunella.
Lunella strongly curved inward below, straightened above, where it joins the middle of a short, oblique upper palatal plica.
Length 14-15, diam.
3.7— 3.8 mm, Midumate, Province of Higo, Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
677).
A species of the Hemiphaedusan group of C. aivajiensis, perignobills, etc., more attenuated above than any of the known species except C. awajiensls, Avhich is a more obese form with narrow lip and emerging subcolumellar lamella.
Clausilia ischna n. ?p.
A slender and elongate member of the group of C. aivajiensis, the length five times the greatest diameter; rather thin, brown, ■with about 11^ wliotls; finely striate.
Aperture small, the i:)eristome reflexed, rather narrow.
Superior lamella compressed, oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding.
Subcolumellar lamella deeply immersed.
Lunella curved inward below, straightened above, and connected with a short, oblique upper palatal plica, being shaped like the letter J.
Length 16.5, diam.
3 to 3.3 mm.
Kochi, Tosa (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
657a).
More slender than any other known species of the group of C. awajiensis.
Clausilia ischna var.
neptis nov. Paler, nearly corneous or whitish; less slender, the last whorl more coarsely striate; peristome broader; sinulus more retracted.
Whorls 11.
Length 15.5 to 16.5, diam.
3.5 mm.
Occurred with the preceding.
Clausilia tanegasMmae n. sp.
Fusiform, rather slender, obsoletely marked with growth-lines, the last whorl striate, pinched up in a rather acute strong wave behind the peristome.
Whorls 10^.
Aperture ovate, the peristome well expanded.
Suj^erior lamella small, oblique, marginal.
Inferior lamella receding, not visible from in front.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Lunella curved inward above, straight below, its lower end joined to a lower palatal plica near its inner end.
Length 18i, diam.
4^ mm.
or smaller, length 16^ mm.
Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo.
602).
The Hemlphcedusce of the northeastern Loo Choo Islands belong to several groups special to those islands.
The group of C. tanegashimce has the internal structure of the plieilahris group, l)ut there is a strong wave or crest behind the outer lip parallel with it.
The shell is very solid and strong.
Clausilia ptychocyma n. sp.
Obesely fusiform, nearly smooth except the last whorl, which has a wave-like ridge aud several strong wrinkles behind the lip.
Whorls about 8-|.
Aperture squarish-ovate, the peristome thick, narrowly reflexed.
Superior lamella small and obtuse.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding.
Subcolumellar lamella immersed.
Lunella very low, narrow, straight above, curved inward and meeting the outer end of a short lower palatal plica below.
Length 11, diam.
3 mm.
Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
6()4a).
Clausilia ptychocyma var.
yakushimae nov. Wrinkles on the latter part of the last whorl more numerous aud less prominent; superior lamella often subobsolete; subcolumellar lamella less deeply immersed, or emerging.
Lunella more distinct.
Yakushima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
6646).
The following species belong to another group of Ilemiphcedusa, characterized by the very strongly spiral inferior lamella.
Clausilia entospira n. sp.
Fusiform, rather slender, yellowish, smooth, the latter half of last whoii coarsely striate, whorls about 8i, moderately convex.
Aperture small; peristome narrowly reflexed, very much thickened, flattened.
Superior lamella small, remote from the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella forming a prominent, heavy fold rather deep within the mouth, strongly spiral within the last whorl.
Subcolumellar lamella immersed.
Lunella very strong, strongly curved inward below, straight, above.
No palatal plicae except the principal plica.
Length 10, diam.
2^ mm.
Tane-ga-shima, Clausilia pinto n. sp.
Shell small, fusiform, dull brownish-olive, nearly smooth.
Whorls 8, moderately convex.
Aperture small, squarish-ovate; peristome thick, expanded, subreflexed.
Superior lamella small, vertical, marginal, barely continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella very deeply receding, straightened within the last whorl.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Lunella connected above with the middle of a short upper palatal plica, strongly curving'inward at its lower end, being shaped like the letter J. Ivength 9.3, diam.
2.4 mm.
Tane-ga-shiraa (Mr. Y. Hirase, No.
663 j.
This species looks like a Zaptyx, but wants the accessory lamellse and plici^e of that group.
I am disposed to consider it a degenerate^member of that subgenus.
Otherwise, the receding inferior lamella would cause it to be ranked as a Hemiphcedusa.
Clausilia (Stereophgedusa) stereoma n. sp.
Excessively strong, glossy, olive-yellow, weakly striate ; very obese below, the upper third very much attenuated, latter half of the last whorl compressed.
"Whorls about 8^.
Aperture piriform, the peristome thickened, narrowly reflexed.
Superior lamella rather small, continuous with the spiral lamella; inferior lamella forming a strong, subhorizontal fold; subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Principal plica rather short, lateral; upper and lower palatal plicae of moderate length, oblique, two minute palatal plic?e between them.
Length 21i, diam.
6 mm.
Yaku-shima (No.
670 of Mr. Hirase' s collection).
Specimens from Taue-ga-shima, which may be called var.
cognata, are referable 'to the same species.
They are a little larger, reddish-brown, perceptibly thinner than the types though still very strong, and with 9i whorls (No.
661 of iMr.
Hirase's collection).
There is also a Avell-marked variety found ou Yaku-shima, much smaller, length 14^^ to 17 mm., more slender, but the color of the type.
This may be called var.
nugax.
These forms closely resemble C. brevior v. ]\Iart.
in the obese contour, very much attenuated above; but they are excessively strong, while brevior is thin.
One species of the brevior group occurs in southeastern Kiusiu, C. Addisoni Pils.
This was originally described as a variety of C. brevior, but on opening additional specimens I find that there is a more or less distinct, straight lunella between the second and lower palatal plicte, not present in C. brevior.
jNIoreover, C. brevior seems to be widely separated geographically from Addisoni.
I think therefore that the latter will stand as a distinct species.
