PECULIARITIES OF THE TERRESTRIAL LARVA OF THE URODELOUS BATRACHIAN, PLETHODON CINEREUS Green.
BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR., PH.D. To the -writer's knowledge no description has been published of the larval stage of this strictly terrestrial species, which occurs through the United States of America east of the Mississippi river.
Cope^ states: " Its habits are entirely terrestrial, as it is never, even in the larval stage, found in the water.
It is abundant under stones and logs in the forests everywhere, and does not occur in open fields.
The eggs are laid in a little package beneath a stone in a damp place.
When the young emerge they are provided with branchiae, but these soon vanish, and they are often found in this young stage apparently quite developed."
I have collected several hundred individuals near West Chester, Pa., at all seasons of the year, and have never found, them in streams or boggy places, but most generally in woods on hillsides at varying elevations above water-courses, sometimes several hundred feet from any water, and occasionally in open fields and hillsides which in the summer season become very dry.
For the most part they are found beneath wood and stones, and even in mid -winter may be found in these places, though at that time generally deeper in the ground than in summer.
This being, then, such a strictly terrestrial species, it was to be anticipated that its larval stage would show deviations from the larvse of the other Urodelea which develop in the water.
In July ■of the present year I found five eggs of Plethodon einereus under a stone, and curled around them, on guard, an adult which dissection proved to be a female; these ova were larval stages, and the examination of them showed many interesting modifications, as follows: The eggs are relatively very large for the size of the species, and.
•each enclosed in gelatinous envelopes.
Active movements of the heads and tails of the larvae could be observed within the innermost membrane.
But the striking peculiarity, even to the naked eye, i"The Batrachia of North America," Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., No.
34, 1889. is a large, uearly spherical yolk-mass arouud which the larva is curled, or rather into which it is pressed by the tension of the egg-envelopes.
Plate XXX, fig.
1 shows a larva freed from its envelopes before killing so that it had straightened out; and fig.
2, an older larva, similarly treated, but which had still retained much of its normal position.
The surface of the yolk -sphere is well supplied witli blood-vessels, as shown in fig.
1, an antero-ventral one being particularly prominent.
The figures show' that there are three pairs of gills present (in fig.
2 only one gill is shown on the right hand, for the sake of clearness) ; and in the older larva the gills are of great size, much branched, the first the smallest, the second largest, lamellar and richly vasculated.
The fore and hind limbs are already well marked, the toes on both faintly outlined; but most remarkable is the fact that the posterior limbs are larger than the anterior, which might indicate that the former develop first, in contradiction to what is known of other Urodelea.
The head, the limbs, and all the trunk region of the embryos, except the end of the tail, are dorso-ventrally flattened, due undoubtedly to pressure against the yolk-sphere, but become more cylindrical after removal from the egg-envelopes.
The head and trunk are pigmented with dark-brown chromatophores, which in the trunk region are arranged metamerically, while the yolk-sphere is not pigmented and of a yellow color; and as the figures show, the eyes are very large.
A mouth was present in'^both cases, but there appeared to be no sucking disks upon the lower side of the head.
In fig.
3 is shown a camera drawing of a section through a stage somewhat younger than that of fig.
1 ; this section was made through an embryo curled closely around the yolk-sphere, in such a manner that the anterior region of the head, shown on the upper side, is cut medially, while a portion of the bend of the trunk, seen on the right-hand lower side, is cut obliquely.
This figure is to illustrate the relations of the intestine to the yolk-mass.
The mouth {Mo.)
leads through the pharynx (Ph.)
and oesophagus ( CE-s.) to the stomach (St.), and posteriorly to the latter is a short diverticulum (-D.).
The small intestine (/ui. )
is seen to be tubular in its proximal portion, but more distally to pass over into the wall of the yolk-mass (Yk.).
The yolk-mass of this stage is seen to be composed of large yolk-cells, the boundaries of which are very distinct.
In this fig.
3 the relative diniensions of yolk-mass to the body are not shown, since the head hides a part of the yolk-raass, and since the head is cut obliquely and so appears larger than it would he in strictly median section.
But the relations of the intestine to the yolk-mass are more clearly shown in the camera drawings 4 and 5, which are dorsal portions of cross-sections of the larva shown in its entirety in fig.
1.
Fig.
4 is in a plane behind the gill region, and shows how the intestine (Int.)
is connected with the yolk-sphere {Yk.').
The epitheMum of the intestine, the nuclei of which are shown as black spots, expands ventrally into ihe yolk-sphere on the dorsal aspect of the latter.
The epithelium of the intestine ends abruptly against the peripheral layer of the yolk-sphere, and does not pass over into it gradually.
The nuclei of the yolk-sphere are much smaller and peripherally placed, and in places are found small clusters of nucleated cells.
The yolk-mass of this larva shows that the cell boundaries of the yolk-cells have disappeared, and consequently the latter are undergoing regressive changes ; the yolk appears as a mass of globules of different volumes suspended in a structureless fluid and without nuclei.
Fig.
5 represents the dorsal half of a cross-section through the same larva, in a plane about half-way between the anterior and posterior limbs.
In this region there is no tubular intestine, nor any open groove of intestinal epithelium upon the yolk-sphere, the entoderm being represented simply by the yolk-sphere (Yk.
), the small nuclei of which are on its periphery.
These sections make clear the nature of the yolk-mass, and its relation to the intestine.
From the mouth to the commencement of the small intestine the alimentary tract is tubular, and has the same appearance in* its epithelial lining as in like stages of other Batrachia; the same is true also for the rectal region of the alimentary tract, which is likewise tubular.
But the middle region of the intestine is composed of the yolk-mass, which in the earlier stage shown in fig.
3 is made up of large yolk-cells, and in the latter stage of figs.
4 and 5 of a mass of yolk-globules with a peripheral layer of small nucleated cells.
Accordingly the large yolk-sphere is not a yolk-sac, since it is an integral part of the intestine.
The larva shown in fig.
1, of which figs.
4 and 5 represent sections, is in quite an advanced stage.
Externally can be seen the gills aud l)oth pairs of limbs.
The sections show that prouephroi are present in the anterior trunk somites, and metanephroi (M. T., fig.
5) in the posterior somites.
There is a cartilaginous brain capsule, cartilaginous vertebral arches {V.C., figs.
4 and 5), and cartilages for the bones of the limbs.
The notochord {N. C. ) is undergoing degeneration; the somatic mesoderm (*So.J/. )
is divided into its various components — muscle somites, sclerotom, etc.
The segmental ducts {S.D.)
extend posteriorly and open into the rectum.
The coelom ( C) is large, the median* mesenteries well formed (J/.
), the liver (L.) aud hepatic ducts present.
The epidermis (Ed.)
is thick and glandular on the dorsal side of the body, aud the genital ridges (G.R., fig.
5) developed.
All these points show an advanced stage of development, Avhich makes it the more remarkable that the middle iutestiue should be represented by a large yolk -sphere.
The sides aud ventral aspect of the yolk-sphere are covered with a very thin envelope composed of three cell layers closely apposed, the flattened ectoderm (Ect, figs.
4, 5), the somatic mesoderm (So.
31.)
and the sphlanchiuic mesoderm (»S/;.Ji.
).
The fact that the body wall is excessively thin upon the ventral side of the yolksphere, svould show perhaps that this wall had extended around the yolk not until late in the development.
The blood-vessels of the yolk-sphere have their position iu the mesodermal layers.
In conclusion, we find the principal modification of these larval stages to consist in the presence of a large yolk-sphere, which is an integral part of the mid-gut, while the anterior and posterior portions of the gut are tubular.
Peculiar also is the great size of the posterior limbs and of the gills (fig.
2), and the continuance within the egg-envelopes after a time v/heu in other Urodelea the larva has emerged from them.
All these modifications must be referred to the terrestrial life; and the great size and long continuance of the yolk-sphere may l)e accredited the value of a source of nourishment.
A life under still dryer surroundings, and longer life within the egg-envelopes necessitating a larger yolksphere, might lead to the formation of a yolk-sac in the strict sense by the holoblastic cleavage becoming mesoblastic.
The case of Pletliodon cinereus is but another to show how readily developmental processes become modified by change of the environment, and how much care must be used iu interpreting them in the search for affinities.
1901.]
NATUIIAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA.
507 A number of cases are known in the Anura of terrestrial ]arva3 with a large yolk-sphere, Avhich have been collected together in a contribution by Miss L. Y. Sainjjson,^ but terrestrial development in the Urodelea appears to be much less frequent.
In the Ca^cilian genus, IcJithyophiii, the embryology of which has been carefully studied by the Sarasins/ there is a large yolk-sphere, which at first becomes segmented only peripherally and not until much later through its entire mass, so that here the development is at first mesoblastic much as in a Sauropsidan.
That may perhaps be found to be the case in Plethodon also Avhen its early cleavage is studied.
In Ichthyophls the intestine lies at first as a straight open groove upon the yolk (cf.
the chapter in the Sarasins' monograph.
Das Schicksal des Dotters) ; then the yolk bends into a number of lobes, which later become elongated and entirely covered by the body wall.
The intestinal groove of Ichthijophis is supposed by these investigators to become a closed tube without growing round the yolkmass, but they did not have the necessary stages to show the final fate of the yolk.
The Sarasins laid particular stress upon the peculiar development of the Civcilia in discussing their relationships, as, e.g., in allying them with Amphiuma, which Hay^ has shown to have quite a similar development.
But the fact that Amphiuma, the Cceeilia and Plethodon show great similarity in their development, might prove rather that the formation of a large yolk-mass with the embryo curled around it may be merely the consequence of terrestrial development, and the similarity express rather a case of convei'gence than of phyletic affinity.
The relationshi[)S of the Amphibia must be shown from comparative anatomical standpoints, and not from the larval development which obviously may be easily modified by change in environment, as is particularly well shown in the Anura.
Brauer, who studied the development of the Ccecilian genus Hypocjeophis from the Seychelles, where it lives wholly terrestrial, concludes:* " Wenn auch kein Zweifel dariiber aufkommen kann, ^ "Unusual Modes of Breeding and Development Among Anura," Amtrican Naturalist, 34, 1900.
^ '' Ergebnisse naturwisseuschaftlicher Forschungen auf Ceylon,'' Wiesbaden, 1«87-1890. "
Observations on Amphiuma and Its Young," American Naturalist, * '' Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Entwicklungsgeschichte und der Anatomie der Gymnophiouen,'' Zool.
Jahrh., 10, 1897.
(lass die grosse Dottermasse bei den untersucliten Gymnophiouen erst secuudiir erworben ist, uachdem die Entwicklung iiicht mehr im Wasser ablief, sondern ganz aiif deni Laude, .... so ist deslialb audi die Annahme, dass die Entwicklung durch die grossere Dottermasse derart modificirt sei, dass eiu Yergleich mit den iibrigen Amphibien nicht beriehtigt sei, meiner Ausiclit nach niclit zutreftend Aus diesen Betrachtungen ergiebt sich somit, dass der Keim der Cocilien im Wesentlichen denselben Ban am Ende der Furchung hat wie der iibrigen Amphibien und dass die scheinbar meroblastische Furchung in Wirklichkeit uur eine durch den grossern Dottergehalt bedingte Variation der iniiqualen Furchung anderer Amphibien ist. '
' The only other case known to me of a Urodele with terrestrial development (except the European viviparous Salamandra maculosa) is that of the Californian Autodax lugubris, as described by Ritter and Miller.^ In this species the eggs are laid attached by pedicels to stones on the land, there is a large yolk-sphere, large gills, and apparently quite close similarity to the larval stages of Flethodon.
®"A Contribution to the Life History of Autodax luyulris Hallow.,'' American Naturalist, 33, 1899.
CYMBTJLIOPSIS VITREA, A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROPOD.
BY HAROLD HEATH AND M, H. SPAULDING.
Ou tlie 27th of Deceral)er, 1900, a large number of iudividuals of the species about to be described were taken at or near the surface of Monterey Bay, California, and twice since that lime great shoals have been noted in the same locality.
With the use of formalin, formalin-alcohol and picro-formalin their natural appearance and structure have been ^ireserved with exquisite fidelity, and will be more fully discussed in a later paper.
This species falls naturally into the genus Cymbiiliopsis proposed by Pelseneer^ which was made to embrace the two species C. ovata and C. calcola, but differs from these in several important respects.
The " shell " or casque (Peck),^ slightly asymmetrical, possesses the characteristic slipper form and bears on its external surface numerous small rounded tubercles which become smaller and more closely grouped together near the posterior-dorsal surface.
Its aperture is large, unarmed and much wider than in C. ovata, but is almost identical with that of C. calceola, and as in the latter, its large cavity extends to the dorsal extremity.
The maximum length of the casque is 4 cm., with a width of 2.5 cm.
The broad, perfectly symmetrical flattened proboscis constituting the head region is in contact with the upper surface of fin, yet free from it to a point immediately in front of the central nervous system.
Its edges are grooved and lead into the wide funnelshaped mouth and oesophagus.
Dorsal to the latter and symmetrically placed are the tentacles having the form of small knob-like projections, each of which is supplied with a strong nerve from the cerebral ganglia.
Peck noted the occasional absence of these ^ Report ou the Pteropoda collected by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876, Part LXV, p. 96.
Vide also The Nautilus, III, p. 30, 1889, where Dall shows CymhuUopsis to be identical with his earlier genus Corolla.
^ Peck, J. I., "On the Anatomy and Histology of Cymbuliop^is calceola," Studies from the Biological Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University, Vol.
IV, No.
'6.
structures in C. calceola, but it was found to be present in each of the fifty specimens of C. vitrea examined on this point.
The oesophagus leads directly backward into the visceral mass, where it joins the relatively voluminous stomach provided with five large and several small teeth.
The intestine makes one turn on the ventral surface of the stomach and opens into the mantle cavity shghtly to the left of the median line.
The remainder of t the visceral mass is composed of the large liver and the gonad, which has the form of a thin sheet investing the surface of the visceral mass except at its forward extremity, where the albumen 'gland and seminal receptacle are situated.
Cymbulioj)sis vitrea, ventral view, natural size.
C, casque or "shell ;" /., foot or fin ; k., kidney within mantle cavity represented by stippled line ; tt., nucleus or visceral mass, showing termination of intestine and pigmented cap ; p., pallial gland.
The mantle cavity is placed on the ventral side of Ciimbuliopsis, and anterior to the visceral mass a portion of the bounding epithelium is modified into the pallial gland.
This is crossed by one complete and two incomplete transparent bands.
Peck states that the pallial gland is " almost symmetrical in this genus, being twisted somewhat to the right, but the asymmetry was not marked."
In C. vitrea the asymmetry is not especially apparent, but it is twisted in the reverse direction to that described and figured bv Peck, and it also differs iu being relatively larger and mucli nearer the anterior margin of the casque.
Beyond the pallial gland the mantle cavity narrows and again enlarges to form the space surrounding the visceral mass, kidney and heart.
Peck's figure of C. calceola represents the foot as extending to the anterior border of the casque, while in G. vitrea this organ is relatively much larger and projects beyond the shell almost half its width.
Three sets of muscles operate it as in the other species of the genus, and a large number of pigment spots, probably sensory in function, are scattered along its maro-iu.
September 3.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, iu the Cliair.
Eight persons present.
A paper entitled " On the Probable Age of the Alabama White Limestone," by Thomas L. Casey, was presented for publication.
The death of Adolf Eric Nordeuskiold, a correspondent, was announced.
September 10.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Ten persons present.
September 24.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twelve persons present.
A paper entitled " Further Study of an Ant," by Adele M. Fielde, was presented for publication.
The following was ordered to be printed : PLATE XI.
^^^w-oxc^ ^ 1.
— ' \ \ \ \ \ \ ;2.
1 ' ^-^ 5.
— ^viiii4iiiA!^ AinUViAMA .
"MW^i^ 7.
^.
— , 1 I 1 1 m " 11 ~~~~^^-^ MONTGOMERY ON CHORDODES MORGANl AND C. PUERILIS.
PLATE XII.
FOWLER.
TYPES OF FISHES.
PLATE XIII FOWLER.
TYPES OF FISHES.
PLATE XIV.
FOWLER.
TYPES OF FISHES.
PLATE XV.
FOWLER.
TYPES OF FISHES.
PLATE XVI.
MAGNOLIA ACUMINATA.
