DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW LITTLE KNOWN AND TYPICAL ATHERINIDE.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The material on which the present paper is based is all contained in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
ATHBRINID.
Subfamily Atherininse.
Premaxillaries freely protractile skin not continuous with that of forehead.
ATHERINA Linnaeus.
Subgenus ATHERINA Linnaeus.
Type Atherina hepsdiis Linnaeus.
Rami of mandible elevated inside of mouth.
Atherina lacustris Bonaparte.
Fauna Italica Pesc III xvii xviii 1836 descr. PI.
91 fig.
3.
Albano Nemi.
Lakes in Italy.
Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. 1846 p. 57.
Lace.
Nem.
Alb.
Bols.
No descr.
Head 4i depth Q D. VIII1 10 A. I 12 P. 1 12 V. I 5 scales 48 to base of caudal 21 before spinous dorsal 10 between latter and base of ventral width of head 2 in its length depth of head 1 snout 4 eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital space 34 pectoral If ventral If  caudal peduncle from last dorsal ray a little shorter than head  least depth of caudal peduncle 4.
Body elongate slender and greatest depth about base of ventral fin.
Side compressed somewhat flattened.
Caudal peduncle elongate compressed and least depth near base of caudal.
Head elongate rather deep and blunt in front.
Width of head posterior to eyes much wider than anterior portion and a little wider than any portion of trunk.
Sides of head compressed somewhat constricted below.
Snout above and interorbital space flattened and with three low longitudinal ridges but not extending posteriorly beyond eyes.
Top of head posterior to eyes convex.
Snout rather large conic not much broader than deep.
Eye rather large anterior hardly impinging on upper profile.
Mouth moderately large oblique and lower jaw protruding.
Taxillary narrow reaching below front rim of orbit.
Mandible rather small not broad and each ramus elevated inside of mouth.
Teeth minute jaws forming a thin narrow cutting edge.
No teeth on vomer and palatines.
Tongue far back in mouth rather small elongate free along sides and miited by median frenum with floor of mouth.
Nostrils lateral in front of eye above.
Interorbital space a trifle broader than snout and flattened.
Postocular ridge distinct.
Gillopening large carried forward till about under front rim of orbit.
Rakers long slender and numerous on first arch.
Filaments numerous about equal to rakers in length.
Pseudobranchia large much longer than filaments.
Isthmus long and narrow.
Branchiostegal membranes united by narrow frenum in front.
Lower surface of isthmus with a shallow groove.
Scales large thin cycloid and not imbricated.
Three rows on cheek.
Opercles scaled and top of head posteriorly scaled to eyes.
Snout interorbital space jaws and lower hyal region naked.
Snout both above and on sides together with interorbital space with cavernous bones ridges connected by soft membranes.
This region also furnished with pores.
Pectoral without flap.
Ventrals with rather short scaly flap between their bases and each with a small short axillary scale.
Origin of spinous dorsal nearer tip of snout than base of caudal by length of ventral.
Spines pungent slender third and fourth longest and subequal.
Soft dorsal inserted a little behind anal much nearer origin of ventral or spinous dorsal than base of caudal and second ray highest.
Anal inserted nearer base of caudal than origin of pectoral and anterior rays highest.
Caudal rather small deeply emarginate.
Pectoral broad level with eye and reaching over origin of ventral.
Ventral reaching under posterior portion of spinous dorsal or half way to origin of anal.
Anus well posterior or a little nearer tip of ventral than origin of anal.
Color in alcohol pale brown sides of head and trunk more or less pale silvery.
Back specked with small dark brown dots.
Side with longitudinal narrow silvery band about as wide as pupil of eye extending to base of caudal.
Fins plain pale brown.
Peritoneum black.
Length caudal damaged 4yginches.
Type of Atherina lacustris Bonaparte No.
9953 A. N. S. P. Italy.
Bonaparte Cofl.
No.
341.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Twentyone cotypes with same data.
Thirtyeight examples also from Italy with the same data except that the lake from which they were taken is not given.
No.
348.
Three examples from Bracciaiio the data otherwise like preceding.
No.
348.
Ninetyfive examples from Italy also with same data.
No.
412.
This species originally from the lakes in the State of Rome is easily distinguished from the other species of Atherina by the slender body.
Atherina sardinella sp nov.
Plate XLI upper figure.
Head 4 depth 5 D. VIII 11 A. I.
13 P. I 12 V. I 5 scales 46 to base of caudal  20 before spinous dorsal  10 between spin.
ous dorsal and base of ventral  width of head 2 in length  depth of head 1 snout 3 eye 3 maxillary 2f  interorbital space 3 pectoral 14 ventral 2 caudal peduncle from base of last dorsal ray a little shorter than head least depth of caudal peduncle 4.
Body elongate fusiform greatest depth about ventral fin.
Sides compressed slightly flattened.
Caudal peduncle elongate slender compressed and its least depth near base of caudal.
Head elongate attenuate compressed not broad behind eyes where greatest width is found.
This is also widest part of body.
Side of head more or less flattened and constricted below.
Snout above and interorbital space flattened with three low longitudinal ridges extending posteriorly over latter but not beyond eyes.
Top of head posterior to eyes and interorbital space convex.
Snout long conic pointed and not broad.
Eye moderately large anterior and hardly impinging on upper profile.
Mouth moderate oblique and lower jaw protruding.
Maxillary narrow slightly curved and reaching posteriorly a little beyond front rim of orbit.
Mandible conspicuous moderately large not broad and each ramus elevated somewhat inside of mouth.
Teeth distinct small sharppointed conic and in several series forming narrow bands in jaws.
Vomer with conspicuous patch of small conic pointed teeth.
Palatines with short narrow band of similar teeth.
Tongue with small patch of minute pointed teeth rather far back.
Tongue small far back in mouth elongate free along sides and united with floor of mouth by a median frenum.
Nostrils lateral rather high and in front of eye above.
Interorbital space a little wider than snout.
Postocular ridge distinct.
Gillopening large and carried forward till nearly below front rim of orbit.
Gillrakers long compressed slender numerous and longer than longest gillfilaments on first arch.
Gillfilaments numerous and short on hypo and ceratobranchials.
Pseudobranchiic large much longer than longest gillfilaments.
Isthmus long narrow branchiostegal membrane united by a narrow frenum in front.
Lower surface of isthmus with rather broad groove.
Scales large thin cycloid and not especially imbricated.
Two rows on cheek.
Opercle and top of head till behind eyes and interorbital space also scaled rest of head naked.
Snout and interorbital space more or less cavernous bony ridges connected by soft membranes furnished with pores.
Pectoral without scaly flap at axil.
A single rather small scaly flap between bases of ventrals.
Origin of spinous dorsal nearer tip of snout than base of caudalDorsal spines slender third probably longest and fin reaching about f of distance to origin of soft dorsal.
Soft dorsal inserted posterior to origin of anal much nearer origin of spinous dorsal than base of caudal and anterior rays much higher than others.
Anal with anterior rays longest.
Caudal emarginate.
Pectoral rather broad high and reaching about opposite root of ventral entral small inserted much nearer origin of anal than posterior rim of orbit.
Anus placed about first third of space between tip of ventral and origin of anal.
Color in alcohol pale brown more or less dull silvery especially below.
Side of body with a narrow silvery longitudinal band nearly as wide as pupil of eye extending to base of caudal.
Fins pale brown without markings.
Each scale on back with a number of fine dark dots.
Peritoneum silvery.
Length caudal damaged 4yg inches.
Type No.
15397 A. N. S. P. Italy.
Bonaparte Coll.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Twentynine cotypes with same data.
Ten examples.
Same data.
No.
345.
Identified as  Atherina sarda.
This species may be found identical with Atherina sarda Valenciennes but the latter is said to have D. VI9 A.
10.
The description like that of Atherina coryieda Rafinesque is too imperfect to permit of identification.
Sarclinella diminutive of Sarelinei a sardine.
ATHERINOMORUS subgen.
nov.
Type Atherina laticeps Pocy.
Rami of mandible not elevated inside of mouth.
Anus well anterior to tips of ventrals.
Head broad.
Eyes large.
 'e'ry Atherina otiopo
 near.
ISCHNOMEMBRAS gen. nov.
Type Ischnomembras gabunensis sp.
nov. A single row or series of scales on cheek.
Mandible slightly protruding.
Mouth curved in profile.
Eye large.
Scales moderate.
Peritoneum pale.
Anal rather long.
Apparently near Chirostoma.
lry. slender Mea3pa Membras an old name congeneric with Atherina.
Isclmomeinbras gabunensis sp.
nov.
Plate XLII upper figure.
Head 3 depth 6 D. VII 9 A. I 16 P. I 13
 V. I 5 scales about 40 squamation injured to base of caudal about 14 before spinous dorsal  7 between second dorsal and origin of anal  width of head 21 in its length depth of head If  snout 3f eye3i maxillary 3 width of mouth 4 interorbital space 3 pectoral U ventral 2 length of caudal peduncle a little less than head least depth of caudal peduncle 3.
Body rather elongate compressed and slender.
Sides slightly convex.
Caudal peduncle elongate compressed and its least depth about f its length.
Head large elongate conic depressed above compressed laterally and broadly constricted below.
Greatest width also greatest width of body at postocular region.
Side of head more or less flat.
Top of head smooth without conspicuous ridges and shghtly convex till behind eyes.
Snout rather long pointed and broadly depressed.
Eye rather large anterior and close to upper profile.
Mouth large oblique and mandible slightly protruding.
Premaxillaries protractile.
Front of upper jaw depressed.
Mouth curved in profile.
Maxillaries narrow small and not reaching opposite front rim of orbit.
Mandible expanded anteriorly till as wide as upper jaw and each ramus elevated rather high inside of mouth.
Teeth minute in narrow bands along edges of each jaw and none on vomer and palatines.
Tongue moderately long flattened free in front and placed rather far back.
Nostrils well separated lateral anterior circular about halfway in length of snout and posterior a small slit above eye in front.
Interorbital space scarcely wider than snout.
Postocular ridge distinct.
Gillopening large carried forward below middle of orbit.
Rakers short small not much more than half of length of filaments and moderate.
Filaments long.
No pseudobranchise.
Isthmus narrow and trenchant below and anteriorly gillmembranes united across for short distance.
Scales small thin cycloid and somewhat imbricated.
Top of head scaled but scales not extending forward to eye.
Opercles scaled and row of broad scales on cheek.
Snout and interorbital space naked not especially cavernous and without any ridges.
Origin of spinous dorsal nearer tip of snout than base of caudal.
Dorsal spines weak somewhat pungent and when depressed fin reaches f of distance to soft dorsal.
Second and third spines longest.
Soft dorsal inserted before middle of base of anal and anterior rays highest.
Anal large inserted much nearer base of caudal than tip of snout and first rays highest.
Pectoral elongate pointed and reaching a little leyond root of ventral.
Ventral rather small reaching about f of space to anal fin.
Caudal emarginate.
Anus placed nearer tip of ventral than origin of anal fin.
Color in alcohol uniform pale brown with traces of silvery especially on lower surface and side of head.
A narrow silvery band not wider than pupil extending along side to base of caudal.
Fins pale brown.
Peritoneum silvery.
Length 2 inches.
Type No.
14934 A. N. S. P. Gabun river Gabun country West Africa.
P. B. DuChaillu.
Two examples inclusive of type.
Gabunensis of the Gabun river.
PHOXARGYREA gen. nov.
Type Dioxargijrea dayi sp.
nov. Peritoneum silvery otherwise close to Menidia.
Po tapering 'Apyupia Argyrea an old name applied to Menidia from silver or made of silver.
Phoxargyrea dayi sp.
nov.
Plate XLI lower figure.
Head 4 depth 6 D. IVI 10 A. I 24 P. I 13 V. I 5 scales 48 to base of caudal 28 before spinous dorsal counting from interorbital space  about 9 obliquely between spinous dorsal and anal  width of head 2 in its length depth of head If snout 3 eye 3f  maxillary 3 interorbital space 3J pectoral 1 ventral 2 length of caudal peduncle from last dorsal ray a little over length of head  least depth of caudal peduncle 3.
Body elongate slender compressed and greatest depth about origin of anal.
Side compressed and more or less flattened.
Caudal peduncle elongate narrow compressed and its least depth midway in its length.
Head elongate compressed attenuate rather narrow flattened above in front then convex posteriorly and sides flattened.
Top of head smooth without ridges.
Snout elongate conic and somewhat flattened above.
Eye moderately large a little anterior and not impinging on upper profile.
Mouth rather small oblique and jaws subequal in closed mouth.
Premaxillary broad posteriorly its edge strongly curved.
Corner of mouth about midway between tip of snout and front rim of orbit.
Mandible rather small not forming a beak with upper jaw and each ramus elevated inside of mouth.
Lips thin fleshy at corner of mouth.
Teeth small in jaws those in front of upper curved downward.
Vomer and palatines edentulous.
Tongue far back flattened elongate rounded and free in front.
Nostrils lateral above and in front of eyes.
Interorbital space broad slightly convex.
Postocular ridge not distinct.
Gillopening rather large carried forward till below middle of eye.
Rakers fine numerous and slender on first arch.
Filaments moderately long or about equal to rakers and numerous.
No pseudobranchiae.
Isthmus a long narrow sharpedged keel anteriorly.
Branchiostegal membranes united for short distance at first also adnate by means of frenum to anterior portion of isthmus.
Scales small cycloid not imbricated and smooth.
Head scaled with exception of jaws snout and under surface.
Bones of snout and front of head above more or less cavernous.
Several pores present.
Axil of pectoral without flap.
Ventrals close together without median scaly flap.
Origin of spinous dorsal a little nearer tip of snout than base of caudal.
Dorsal spines pungent slender rather weak and first and second longest.
Origin of soft dorsal nearly midway between that of spinous dorsal and tip of last depressed anal ray.
Anterior rays highest.
Anal long beginning just above base of last dorsal spine or a little nearer base of caudal than tip of snout.
Length of its base a little less than  of body without caudal.
Anterior rays highest.
Caudal broad emarginate.
Pectoral large elongate reaching well beyond root of ventral but not to origin of dorsal.
Ventral shorter reaching to anus or not quite to origin of anal.
Anus directly in front of anal fin or at tip of depressed ventral.
Color in alcohol pale more or less uniform brown.
Side of body with a welldefined narrow silverywhite longitudinal band about width of pupil and extending to base of caudal.
Fins uniform pale brown.
Peritoneum bright silvery.
Length caudal damaged 3 inches.
Type No.
10177 A. N. S. P. India.
R. Coates.
One example the type.
Named for Dr. Francis Day among late Iclithyologists a most able author of many papers on Indian fishes.
BASILICHTHYS Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 198 microlepidotus .
Basilichthys regia Humboldt and Valenciennes.
Atherina regia Humboldt and Valenciennes' in Humboldt and Bonpland Rec.
Obs.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp. II 1833 p. 187.
Surtout dans I'OceanPacifique pres du Callao de Lima.
Atherina latidavia Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. X 1835 p 351.
Valparaiso.
M.
d'Orbignv.
La lagune de Taguatagua du Chili.
M.
Gay.
Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XVII 1878 p. 44.
Callao Bay.
Peru.
Prof. James Orton.
Atherinichthys latidavia Ciunther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. Ill 1861 p. 402.
Salt water Valparaiso.
Mr.
Bridges.
Falkland Islands Port Louis.
Haslar Collection.
Chirostoma latidavia Steindachner Zool.
Jahrb. Suppl.
IV Fauna Chilensis 1898 p. 313.
Tumbes Talcahuano .
Head4 depth 4 D. VIIII 50 A. I 18 P. I 14 V. I 5 scales 92 in lateral series to base of caudal 50 before spinous dorsal 16 in transverse series between root of ventral and middle of back before spinous dorsal width of head 2 in its length depth of head 14 snout 3 eye 5 tip of upper jaw to corner of mouth 5 to end of maxillary 3 interorbital space 3f  length of depressed spinous dorsal 3 first dorsal ray 2h base of soft dorsal 2h second anal ray 2 base of anal If pectoral If ventral 2f  least depth of caudal peduncle 3 length of caudal peduncle from base of last dorsal ray l.
Head large elongate compressed greatest depth about tip of pectoral.
Sides compressed somewhat flattened or only slightly convex.
Caudal peduncle elongate compressed its least depth near base of caudal.
Head elongate conic compressed rather broad posteriorly so that greatest width is about midway in postocular region also widest part of body.
Side of head more or less flattened though broadly constricted below.
Snout rather long flattened above and with jaws produced some distance beyond.
Eye small high not impinging on upper profile and posterior rim a little posterior in head.
Adipose eyelid slightly developed.
Mouth rather small horizontal and jaws equal.
Maxillary expanded distally till f of pvipil upper portion more or less concealed below preorbital and not reaching opposite front rim of orbit.
Teeth conic rather large and in two rather irregular series in jaws.
No teeth on vomer or palatines.
Tongue small narrow pointed rather thick and free in front.
Mandible moderately large with each ramus well elevated inside of mouth.
Lips thin.
Anterior  Credited to Humboldt on the authority of Valenciennes.
The paper in which this species is described is by these authors jointly but later Valenciennes credits to Humboldt.
nostril circular about last third of space between tip of upper jaw and front rim of orbit.
Posterior nostril slitlike and a little before front rim of orbit above.
Interorbital space broad slightly convex.
Top of head posterior to interorbital space evenly convex.
Gillopening large extending forward nearly opposite front rim of pupil.
Rakers long slender compressed 8  25 on first arch longest about f of longest filaments.
No pseudobranchise.
Isthmus long narrow trenchant and branchiostegal membranes not united across.
Scales small thin cycloid and rather narrowly imbricated.
No lateral line.
Head with exception of snout jaws and space in front of eyes scaled.
About five series of scales on cheek.
Base of caudal covered with small scales none on other fins.
Between bases of ventrals several small scales and each fin with a small axillary scale.
No pectoral flap.
Spinous dorsal a little posterior its origin a little nearer base of caudal than tip of upper jaw weak depressable in a groove and reaching I of distance to soft dorsal.
Soft dorsal with anterior rays elevated and inserted about midway between base of caudal and origin of ventral or over middle of base of anal.
Anal inserted posterior to tip of depressed spinous dorsal and anterior rays longest.
Caudal moderately large forked and lobes rounded.
Pectoral small high and reaching about f of distance to origin of ventral.
Ventral small inserted nearer origin of anal than origin of pectoral and reaching hardly halfway to anus.
Anus as far from tip of ventral as length of that fin or just before origin of anal.
Color in alcohol pale brown below darker above and each series of scales longitudinally with a narrow dark band.
A broad brassy land as wide as pupil more or less olivaceous along its upper margin extending from pectoral to base of caudal.
A pale median olivaceous streak from occiput to first dorsal and continued posteriorly to base of caudal.
Lower surface of head brassy.
Fins more or less uniform ale brown.
Peritoneum black.
Length 8 inches.
One example identified as Atherina latidavia by Cope.
Callao Bay.
Peru.
Prof. James Orton.
Presented by Prof. E. D. Cope.
Dr. Smitt has recently figured an example identified as Atherinichthys regia var.
latidavia. However it shows about 70 scales in a lateral count to base of caudal.
Basilichthys microlepidotus is also united with regia.
' Bih.
Kon.
Sven.
Vet.Ak.
Hand.
Stockholm XXIV iv. 1899 p. 31 PI.
4 fig.
30.
THYRINA Jordan and Culver.
Contr.
Hopkins Lab.
Biol. I 1S95 p. 419 etcrmanni.
Thyrina guatemalensis Giinther.
Plate XLIII lower figure.
Atherinichthys guatemalensis Giinther Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1804 p. 151.
Lakes of Huamuchal.
Mr.
Salvin.
Giinther Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1868 p. 443.
Same examples.
Chirostoma guatemalensis Gill and Bransford Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1877 p. 187.
Lake Nicaragua.
No description.
Menidia guatemalensis Jordan and Evermann Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Fish N. Mid.
Amer.
No.
47 I 1896 p. 801.
Copied.
Thyrina guatemalensis Jordan and Evermann Rep. U. S. Fish Com. 1896 p. 332.
Reference.
Head 4i depth 4 D. IVI 9 A. I 22 P. i I 12 V. I 5 scales 40 to base of caudal 27 before spinous dorsal 8 in transverse series between origin of anal and spinous dorsal width of head If in its length depth of head 1 snout 3 eye 2f  maxillary 3 mandible 3 interorbital space 3 length of spinous dorsal 3 first dorsal ray 2  first anal ray 1  pectoral 1  ventral 2  least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  length of base of anal a little less than  of length of body.
Body elongate strongly compressed greatest depth at origin of anal and lower profile forming obtuse angle at this point.
Upper profile evenly convex.
Abdomen strongly compressed and edge not sharp or trenchant but rather narrowly convex.
Greatest width of trunk a little less than that of head and found at bases of pectorals.
Head elongate conic rather obtuse in front sides compressed and constricted below.
Snout broad and flattened above.
Eye large anterior and close to upper profile.
Mouth small oblique and superiorly terminal.
Jaws nearly equal when closed and premaxillaries protractile.
Maxillary slender and reaching posteriorly below front edge of eye.
Teeth rather large conic sharppointed and biserial in jaws.
No teeth on vomer and palatines.
Tongue small rather narrow and free in front.
Each ramus of mandible elevated inside of mouth.
Lips thin.
Anterior nostrils lateral about midway between tip of snout and orbit posterior above front rim of orbit.
Interorbital space flat.
Top of head posterior to eyes convex.
Top of snout somewhat cavernous.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite first f of eye.
Rakers long slender and numerous.
Filaments numerous and long.
No pseudobranchiffi.
Isthmus narrow constricted and trenchant.
Scales large rather thin cycloid with uneven margins and somewhat imbricated on side of trunk.
Scales of head extending on interorbital space where they become enlarged.
Single row of large scales on cheek.
Scales on sides of head above large.
Snout and jaws naked.
No pectoral flap.
Ventrals with rather broad scales between bases and each with short basal scaly flap.
Origin of spinous dorsal well behind that of anal or much nearer tip of snout than tip of caudal small spines weak and when depressed reaching nearly f of distance to soft dorsal.
Soft dorsal inserted a little nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral first ray undivided and longest.
Anal inserted a little nearer base of caudal than tip of snout base long and base of last ray distant from base of caudal more than half of length of base of fin itself.
Extending posteriorly beyond base of last dorsal ray anterior rays elongate and first longest.
Caudal rather long emarginate and both lobes apparently sharppointed.
Pectoral long falcate sharppointed and falling a little short of tip of ventral.
'entral small united posteriorly and reaching almost to origin of anal.
Anus placed a little before tips of ventrals.
Color in alcohol pale strawrown.
A few.
of scales along dorsal surface sprinkled with brown dots.
Lower surface more or less pale silvery.
A broad silveryleadcolorecl band as wide as pupil extending from axil of pectoral to base of caudal.
Upper edge of band more or less dark.
Dorsal and caudal grayishbrown.
Peritoneum brownish.
Length 2yV inches.
One example.
Nicaragua.
Dr. J. F. Bransford.
Probably one of the examples recorded by Drs.
Gill and Bransford.
Subfamily Atherinopsiinae.
Premaxillaries not freely protractile the skin continuous mesially with forehead.
PROTISTIUS Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1874 p. 66 semotilus.
Teeth simple pointed in bands in jaws and also present on vomer.
A single small dorsal spine.
This genus was first provisionally referred to the Mugilidce by Cope which was certainly in better propinquity than his final attempt tO' nicrge it in the 'Cyprinodontidce.
Protistius semotilus Cope.
Plate XLIV.
L.c.
Some portion of the Peruvian Andes from an elevation of twelve thousand feet.
Head 4 depth about 5 D. II 10 A. I 13 P. i I 15 V. I 5 about 75 scales to base of caudal in lateral series width of head If in its length snout 3 eye about 5 maxillary about 2 interorbital space 2f  pectoral If ventral 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f.
Snout projecting a little beyond mandible.
Teeth rather elongate 47 pointed and a small patch present on vomer.
Tongue small and not free from floor of mouth.
Nostrils well separated.
Gillopening extending forward nearly opposite front rim of orbit.
Rakers slender rather numerous and shorter than filaments.
Isthmus trenchant narrow.
Middle of base of pectoral about opposite lower rim of orbit.
Anal beginning a little in front of second dorsal.
Anus close in front of anal.
Peritoneum llackish.
Length 5 inches.
Type of Protistius scmotUus Cope No.
14404 A. N. S. P. Peruvian Andes from an elevation of twelve thousand feet.
GASTEROPTEEUS Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XVII 1S7S p. 700 archceus.
Pisciregia J. F. Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 342 beardsleei .
Differs from Protistius chiefly in the presence of more than one dorsal spine.
Originally confounded with the Mugilidce by Prof.
Cope this genus has recently been redescribed by Mr. J. F. Abbott under the name of Pisciregia.
Gasteropterus archaeus Cope.
Plate XLIII upper figure.
L.c.
At Arequipa on the Pacific slope at an elevation of 7500 feet.
Peru.
CoU.
Prof. James Orton.
Head 4 depth about 6 D. IVI 11 A. I 15 P. iI 16 V. I 5 scales about 86 in lateral series to base of caudal width of head 2 in its length snout Si eye about 5 maxillary about 2 interorbital space 2 pectoral 1 ventral a little over 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f.
Snout protruding a little beyond mandible.
Tongue small rather narrow and a little free in front.
Nostrils well separated .
Gillopening extending forward nearly opposite front rim of pupil.
Rakers shorter than filaments slender and rather numerous.
Pseudobranchiffi rather small.
Isthmus narrow and compressed.
Several irregular lateral series of porous or tubular scales and though lower is broken in places it is more complete than others.
Pectoral extends a little more than f of distance to base of ventral.
Anus about midway between tip of ventral and origin of anal .
Peritoneum deep brown .
Length 6 inches.
Type of Gasteropterus arclucus Cope No.
22002 A. N. S. P. Arequipa on the Pacific slope at an elevation of 7500 feet.
Peru.
Prof. James Orton collection of 1874.
Prof. E. D. Cope.
Alsoa cotype with same data.
Pisciregia beardsleei J. F. Abbott is closely related if distinct and while included in Mr. Abbott's paper on The Marine Fishes of Peru  as evidently having been obtained at Callao could it not have been brought there from the neighboring mountains
There is little to distinguish it in the original account from G. archceus still it may be a saltwater representative.
ATHERINOPSIS Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 134 calif orniensis.
Atherinopsis californiensis Girard.
L.c San Francisco Cal.
Dr. A. L.
Heermann.
Atherinichthijs californiensis Giinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. Ill 1861 Chirostoma calif orniense Jordan and Gilbert Proc.
U S Nat Mus III 1880 p. 29.
San Diego California. ''
'  ' Atherina storeri Ayres in Girard I.e. 1856 p. 136.
Head  depth 5 D. IXI 12 A. I 22 P. I 16 V. I 5 scales about 73 m lateral series to base of caudal squamation injured 51 before spinous dorsal about 15 in oblique transverse series between origins of soft dorsal and anal width of head 2 in its length depth of head If snout 3 eye 4 tip of upper jaw to corner of mouth 5to end of maxillary 3f  interorbital space 3 length of depressed dorsal 2 base of soft dorsal 2 base of anal 1 pectoral j ventral 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 3 length of caudal peduncle from' base of last dorsal ray If.
Body elongate well compressed fusiform and greatest depth a httle before origin of ventral.
Sides slightly convex.
Caudal peduncle elongate strongly compressed and least depth close to base of caudal.
Head elongate pointed compressed greatest width in middle of postocular region and also equal to greatest width of trunk at bases of pectorals.
Side of head more or less flattened becoming conspicuously constricted below eyes.
Snout broad jaws produced so that upper is bluntly pointed when viewed from above.
Eye high not impinging on upper profile and posterior rim a little posterior to middle of head.
EyeUd somewhat thick and adiposelike.
Mouth high nearly horizontal and upper jaw slightly longer than lower Posteriorly gape of mouth turns obliquely down.
Premaxillaries not protractile or with a distinct frenum above separating them from snout.
Maxillary narrow its distal expanded portion about half of pupil oblique upper portion more or less concealed below prcorbital and falling well short of front orbital rim.
Articulation of mandible with quadrate nearly opposite front rim of orbit and expanded somewhat m front till equal to orbit.
Each ramus of mandible high and well elevated inside of mouth.
Teeth in jaws small pointed and biserial.
No vomerine or palatine teeth.
Tongue small elongate and free in front.
Anterior nostril circular nearly midway between tip of upper jaw and front of eye.
Posterior nostril well separated slitlike in advance of front of orbit.
Interorbital space broad and slightly conic.
Top of head posterior to eyes conic.
Gillopening large extending forward till nearly opposite front rim of orbit.
Rakers long slender compressed 7  37 on first arch and longest about  of longest filaments.
Filaments numerous and long.
Pseudobranchiae absent.
Isthmus long narrow and branchiostegal membranes not united.
Scales small cycloid somewhat imbricated and with uneven edges.
About six rows on cheek and first three small and close to eye.
With exception of snout jaws and space in front of eye head scaled.
No scaly flaps except small one between bases of ventrals.
Spinous dorsal in groove weak and inserted a little nearer tip of snout than tip of caudal.
Soft dorsal small inserted a little nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral or nearly over middle of base of anal.
Like anal rays anterior highest.
Anal begins about opposite tip of depressed dorsal or a little nearer base of caudal than origin of pectoral.
Caudal forked lobes pointed.
Pectoral high broad at base and falcate tips not reaching base of ventral.
Ventral small pointed and not reaching opposite origin of spinous dorsal.
Anus remote from ventrals near front of anal.
Color in alcohol dull brown paler beneath and all more or less brassy.
An indistinct longitudinal band about as wide as eye from base of pectoral to base of caudal.
Fins plain uniform brown.
Peritoneum black.
Length 7h inches.
Type of Atherinopsis californiensis Girard No.
10208 A. N. S. P. San Francisco California.
Dr. A. L. Heermann.
' Two cotypes with same data also other material from Monterey Bay and San Diego has been compared.
Atherinops magdalenae sp.
nov.
Plate XLII lower figure.
Head 4 depth 5 D. VI 10 A. I.
22 P. I 14 V. I 5 scales 47 in a lateral series to base of caudal 10 scales obliquely back from spinous dorsal to base of anal in front  width of head 2 in its length  depth of head If snout 3 eye 4 maxillary 3 interorbital space 3 pectoral a little shorter than head  ventral 2  least depth of caudal peduncle 2h.
Body well compressed lower profile more convex than uper and 1903.
natural sciences of Philadelphia.
741 greatest depth about midway in its length.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth a little less than half its length.
Head rather small compressed more or less constricted below upper profile nearly straight and lower well curved convexly.
Snout long.
Eye moderate high circular and anterior.
Mouth horizontal jaws subequal or lower only slightly projecting.
Upper jaw broad and depressed.
Teeth uniserial bicuspid and rather small in jaws.
No teeth on vomer.
Tongue small far down and little free in mouth.
Each ramus of mandible well elevated inside of mouth.
Maxillary slender vertically inclined and falling little short of front rim of orbit.
Nostrils well separated.
Interorbital space rather broad and slightly convex.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite front rim of pupil.
Rakers slender rather numerous and shorter than filaments.
No pseudobranchise.
Isthmus narrow trenchant.
Scales of moderate size cycloid and hardly imbricated those on chest smaller and crowded.
Head scaly about three rows on cheek.
Bases of soft dorsal and anal with scaly sheaths.
Base of caudal with small scales.
Several irregular or broken series of tubes on side of body representing lateral system lowest most perfect.
Spinous dorsal inserted a little behind anus small much lower than soft dorsal and second spine apparently largest.
Soft dorsal low anterior rays highest and inserted a little before middle of base of anal.
Anal large similar in shape to soft dorsal and beginning close behind anus.
Caudal damaged evidently emarginate.
Pectoral rather long reaching past base of ventral and first rays longest.
Ventral rather small.
Anus nearly midway between tip of depressed ventral and origin of anal at least distinctly before origin of spinous dorsal.
Color in alcohol dull brown back a little darker.
A broad silvery lateral band equal to f eyediameter and upper half grayish.
Sides of head with silvery reflections.
Fins plain brownish.
Orbit brassy.
Peritoneum silverygray.
Length caudal damaged 3 inches.
Type No.
10206 A. N. S. P. Magdalena Bay Lower California.
W. N. Lockington.
Two examples inclusive of type.
This species appears to be a southern representative of Atherinops aflinis Ayres differing in the anterior position of the vent.
Named for Magdalena Bay Lower California.
Explanation of Plates XLIXLIV Plate XLI.
 Atherina sardinella Fowler.
Type No.
15397 A. N. S. P. Italy.
Phoxargyrea dayi Fowler.
Type No.
10177 A. N. S. P. India.
Plate XLII.
 Ischnomembras gabunensis Fowler.
Type No.
14934 A. N. S. P. West Africa.
Atherinops magdalenoe Fowler.
Type No.
10206 A. N. S. P. Lower California.
Plate XLIII.
 Gasteropterus archceus Cope.
Type No.
22002 A. N. S. P. Peru.
Thyrina guafemalensis Gtinther.
No.
15983 A. N. S. P. Nicaragua.
Plate XLIV.
 Protistius semotilus Cope.
Type No.
14404 A. N. S. P. Peru.
NEW AND LITTLE KNOWN MUGILID AND SPHYR.ffNID.S.
BY HENRY W. FDWLER.
All of the material on which the present paper is based is in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
MUGILID.
Mugil brasiliensis Spix.
Sel.
Gen. Spec.
Pise.
Rrasil 1S29 p. 72.
Oceano Atlantico.
Museo Monacensi.
Head 4 depth 4 D. IVI S A.
Ill 8 scales 33 in lateral series to base of caudal snout 4 in head eye 4 interorbital space 2.
Mandibular angle obtuse.
Ciliiform teeth in loth jaws.
Scales large those on caudal peduncle and below soft florsal but little smaller than others on middle of side.
Soft dorsal and anal with small scales on basal portions of membranes of anterior rays.
Soft dorsal inserted a little behind origin of anal.
Pectoral falling short of origin of spinous dorsal by about  its own length.
Length 8f inches.
Rio Janeiro Brazil.
Dr. Turner.
Other examples from Surinam and St. Martin's W I. have been compared and found to agree.
Mugil cephalus Linnaeus.
Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 1758 p. 316.
Oceano Europaeo.
Examples from Florida Ft. Macon N. C South Carohna Wood's Hole Massachusetts 
Ionte video Uruguay Peru and Beirut Syiia agree.
The only differences are due apparently to age or individual variation.
Mugil kelaartii Gunther.
Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. Ill 1S61 p. 429. Point de Galle.
Sir A.
Smith.
Philippine Islands.
Fowler Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 p. 500.
Sandwich Islands.
Dr. Wm.
H.
Jones.
Head 3 3f depth 3' 3 D. IVM 8 A.
Ill 9 scales 31 in a lateral series to base of caudal snout 4 in head eye 4 interorbital space 2h pectoral lyVOily a small portion of base of soft anal about I in advance of that of soft dorsal.
In smaller example about  of soft anal in advance of soft dorsal.
landibulary angle a little obtuse.
Spinous dorsal inserted a little nearer base of caudal than tip of snout.
Scales large those on snout not extending to its margin and little reduced in size.
Soft dorsal and anal covered with small scales  Spines not VI as given in notes.
744 Nov on their basal portions mostly on memlnancs Iwtwccn rays.
Length 7l inches.
Two examples.
Hawaiian Islands.
Dr. William H. Jones.
They both appear identical with M. kelaartti agreeing largely with Dr. Giinther's account and fiaure. Querimana stages of 
Mugil cephaJus and 2 Mugil curema.
Mugil curema Valenciennes.
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. XI 1S36 p. 64.
Bresil.
Martinique.
M.
Plee.
Cuba.
M.
Choris.
Bahia.
Examples are before me from Wood's Hole Massachusetts Beach Haven and Beasley's Point New Jersey Ft. Macon N. C mouth of St. Lucie river Florida and San Domingo West Indies.
Latter from Prof. W. M. Gabb containing an example in the Querimana stage.
Mugil incilis Hancock.
Plate XLV lower figure.
Quart.
Jour.
Sci.
Lit.
Art.
London 1830 p. 127.
In the trenches or ditches dug for draining the flat lands of the coast of Guiana.
Museum of the Zoological Society of London.
Head 3 depth 4 D. IVT 8 A.
Ill 9 P. ii 14 V. T 5 scales ' Jnurn.
Mus.
Godef. XI vi 1S77 p. 215.
Otaheiti.
Museum von Raiatea.
L.c XV vii 1878 PI.
121 fig.
a.
42 111 a lateral series to base of caudal about 15 scales in an oblique series from origin of spinous dorsal to middle of belly 24 scales before spinous dorsal width of head If in its length depth of head H snout 4 eye 3 maxillary 3 interorbital space 2 second dorsal spine If first dorsal ray 2 third anal spine 2f  upper caudal lobe l least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral If ventral If.
Body fusiform compressed greatest depth about middle of length and profiles more or less evenly convex.
Caudal peduncle compressed and its least depth about If in its length.
Head robust a little constricted below and profiles evenly convex.
Snout broad a little convex above and upper jaw hardly lrnduced.
Eye anterior with well developed adipose eyelids.
Mouth a little inferior corner not quite reaching opposite anterior rim of orbit.
Mandibular angle a right one and symphysis form a process that fits in a depression of upper jaw.
Teeth rather large uniserial ciliiform and present in both jaws.
Tongue fleshy not free.
Maxillary exposed and reaching opposite front rim of orbit.
Lower edge of preorbital denticulate.
Anterior nostril with a small cutaneous rim near edge of snout and space between it and posterior much greater than space between latter and front of eye.
Posterior nostril rather large.
Interorbital space broad and slightly convex.
Gillopening extending forward till about opposite middle of orbit.
Rakers about 50 slender fine equal to about f length of longest filaments which are numerous and also equal to about  of orbital diameter.
Pseudobranchise about half of orbital diameter.
Isthmus narrow with a groove.
Stomach gizzardlike muscular and about size of eye.
Intestine long with many convolutions.
Peritoneum blackish.
Anus close in front of anal fin.
Scales a little small and in more or less even longitudinal series.
Head scaly.
Scales extending down along edge of snout small.
A slender pointed scaly flap along base of spinous dorsal about equal in length to f length of first spine.
Scaly flap at axil of pectoral a little less than half length that of fin.
Ventral with a similar scaly flap and a median one between bases of each of these fins about f their length.
Greater portions of soft dorsal anal and caudal covered with minute scales those at their bases larger.
Spinous dorsal inserted a little nearer tip of snout than base of caudal second spine longest and fourth shortest.
Soft dorsal inserted nearer origin of spinous than base of caudal and first ray longest margin of fin a little concave.
Anal similar to soft dorsal spines slender graduated to third which is longest first much shortest and origin of fin nearly opposite tip of depressed spinous dorsal.
Caudal forked lobes pointed and angular when expanded emarginate.
Pectoral small reacliing origin of spinous dorsal and its origin level with upper margin of orbit.
Ventral inserted a little before middle of pectoral its spine about f length of fin.
Color in alcohol brownish back and upper surface deep dull olivaceousbrown.
A dusky blotch at base of pectoral.
No dark streaks present along series of scales.
Fins pale dorsals and caudal a trifle darker.
Length 4f inches.
One example.
Paramaribo Surinam.
Dr. Hering.
Also fourteen others with same data.
Mugil gilntheri Steindachner is said to have 46 or 47 scales in a lateral series to the base of the caudal.
I am unable to count more than 44 scales in any of the above examples.
LIZA Jordan and Swain.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. VII 1884 p. 261 capita  ramada.
Subgenus LIZA Jordan and Swaiii.''
Type Mugil ramada Risso.
Upper lip thin not enlarged.
Liza cascasia Hamilton.
Mugil cascasia Hamilton Ace.
Fish.
Ganges 1822 pp.
217 380.
Northern rivers of Bengal.
One example from the Ganges river India.
Liza alosoides sp.
nov.
Plate XLV upper figure.
Head 31 depth 3i D. IVI 8 A.
Ill 9 P. ii 15 V. I 5 scales 38 in a lateral series to base of caudal squamation injured  about 13
scales in an oblique transverse series back from origin of spinous dorsal  18 scales before spinous dorsal width of head 1 in its length depth of head 1 snout 4 eye 3 maxillary 3J interorbital space 2 first dorsal spine 2 first branched dorsal ray l'g third anal spine 2 first anal ray If pectoral 14 ventral If least depth of caudal peduncle 2.
Body rather deep well compressed greatest depth about median and profiles evenly and similarly convex.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth about equal to its length.
 Other species examined are Liza ramada Risso Liza aurita Risso and Liza saliens Risso.
Head deep well compressed and becoming more or less constricted below.
Snout rather broad and convex upper jaw projecting a little.
Eye anterior without adipose lids.
Maxillary reaching front margin of orbit and partially exposed.
Mandible with rami forming a right angle exposed median strip on chin rather broad.
Teeth ciliiform uniserial and rather long in jaw.
Symphysis with usual process.
Tongue not free fleshy.
Preorbital finely serrate.
Nostrils well separated posterior closer to upper front rim of orbit than to anterior.
Interorbital space broad and a little convex.
Gillopening extending forward till opposite middle of eye.
Gillrakers numerous fine slender shorter than filaments which are about I of eye.
Pseudobranchice about half of orbital diameter.
Stomach gizzardlike muscular.
Intestine long with many convolutions.
Peritoneum dark brown.
Scales moderately large.
A long pointed scaly flap at ijase of spinous dorsal and another between bases of ventrals.
Soft dorsal and anal covered with small scales over their greater portions.
Base of caudal scaly.
Spinous dorsal inserted nearer base of caudal than tip of snout and second spine a trifle longest.
Soft dorsal inserted nearly midway between origin of spinous dorsal and lase of caudal.
A little less than half of base of anal inserted before origin of soft dorsal third spine longest second but little shorter and first short.
Caudal emarginate lobes pointed and producing a forked appearance when fin is not expanded.
Pectoral inserted a little above upper rim of orbit and falling about opposite origin of spinous dorsal.
Ventral inserted about opposite middle of pectoral and spine nearly f length of fin.
Color in alcohol pale brown back slightly darker and tinged with dull olivaceous.
No traces of streaks on side.
Base of pectoral scarcely darker than rest of fin.
Fins all plain pale brownish.
Length 3 inches.
Type No.
9771.
Gabun country West Africa.
P. B. DuChaillu.
Six cotypes also with same data.
They seem probably related to Liza schlegeli Bleeker but that species is said to have but 30 scales in a lateral series.
Alosa old name of the European shad slfJo resemblance.
Liza caldwelli Fowler.
Mugil caldwelli Fowler.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 p. 524 PI.
19 fig.
4.
Samoa.
Dr. H. C.
Caldwell.
Head 3 depth 3 D. IV5 A.
Ill 9 P. ii 14.
Eyelid narrow ' Nat.
Verh.
Holl.
Maats.
Wet.
Haarlem XVIII 1863 p. 92 PI.
IQ fig.
1.
Guinea Ashantee.
though adiposehkc but not infringing on iris.
Jaws edentulous.
Corner of mouth reaching opposite anterior nostril not a trifle posterior to the posterior nostrils but extremity of maxillary extending a trifle beyond posterior nostril.
Strip on chin between rami of mandible narrow.
Stomach gizzardlike and muscular.
Intestine long with many convolutions.
Peritoneum blackish.
One example.
Type of Miigil caldireUi Fowler No.
9.841  A. N. S. P. Samoa.
Dr. H. C. Caldwell.
OEDALECHILUS subgen.
nov. Type Miigil labeo Cuvier.
Upper lip thick.
01aJo swollen siVji lip.
Agonostomus monticola Griffith.
Mugil monticola Bancroft in Griffith Anim.
Kingd.
Cuv. X lS3i.
Jamaica.
Dr.
Bancroft.
Head 3 depth 3i D. IVI 8 A.
Ill 9 scales 41 in lateral series to base of caudal width of head ly in its length snout 3 eye 5 maxillary 2 interorbital space 3 first dorsal spine 2 pectoral If ventral If least depth of caudal peduncle 2.
Maxillary reaching middle of eye.
Soft dorsal and anal marked by a longitudinal or transverse dusky bar.
Length 9 inches.
Eighteen examples from San Domingo West Indies.
Prof. W. M. Gabb.
Young examples show a slightly convex interorbital space and maxillary reaches a little past front of eye.
In the original account of Agonostoma pcrcoides I am unable to construe the account of the interorbital space.
 The construction of the sentence does not seem to leave it clear that the interorbital space is 7 the length of head.
Besides agreeing in most respects with my San Domingo material all of the examjles mentioned are either halfgrown or adults.
It is possible therefore that percoidcs may be identical with 'monticola.
The length of the adult example examined by Dr. Giinther is not stated.
Joturus picliardi Poey.
Mem.
Hist.
Nat.
Cuba II XLIX 185658 p. 263 PI.
18 figs.
45.
Ce poisson se trouve dans toute I'ile dans les rivieres quiont des cascades.
Cuba.
Head 4 depth 3 D. IVI 9 A.
Ill 10 scales 44 to base of caudal in lateral series  width of head If in its length  snout 2f  e5e  Species examined are Liza prorensalis Risso and Liza labeo Cuvier.
Cnf.
Fiah.
Brit.
Mus.. Ill 1861 p. 465.
6 interorbital space 2 first dorsal spine If first developed anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral 1 ventral 1.
Length 11 inches.
One from eastern San Domingo West Indies.
Prof. W. M. Gabb.
SPHYENID.
AGRIOPOSPHYR'ENA subgen.
nov.
Type Esox barracuda Walbauni.
Scales 90 or less.
Top of head broad flat and interorbital space slightly concave.
Lower margin of orbit midway or above middle of depth of head.
Body rather robust.
'A'ynwTTd' wild Ztfupavja Sphyrcena.
Sphyraena snodgrassi Jenkins.
Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1899 1901 p. 388 fig.
2.
Honolulu.
Drs.
O. P. Jenkins and T. D.
Wood.
Sphyrcena commersoni Fowler Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 p. 501.
Sandwich Islands.
Dr. William H.Jones.
L.c p. 520.
Tahiti.
Dr. J. K.
Townsend.
Not of Cuvier.
Head 3 depth 5f  D. VI 9 A. II 8 scales 80 in lateral hne to base of caudal 8 more on latter snout 2 in head from its tip eye 6 maxillary 2 interorbital space 4f  pectoral 2f  ventral 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 4.
Eye a little longer than deep and its lower margin about midway in depth of head.
Distal extremity of maxillary not quite reaching front rim of orbit.
Jaws forming rather robust or broad angle lower not greatly produced.
Edge of isthmus rounded.
Interorbital space slightly concave.
Dorsals and anal brown on greater portions distally soft dorsal dark.
Length dh inches.
Hawaiian Islands.
Head 2y depth about 6f.
End of maxillary a little short of front rim of orbit.
Dark brown of vertical fins apparently faded.
Tahiti.
Close to S. barracuda of the West Indies apparently differing in the shorter maxillary though I have not had the opportunity to compare examples of intermediate size.
Sphyraena barracuda Walbaum.
Esox barracuda Walbaum Pet.
Art.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 94.
Based on Barracuda Catesby Nat.
Hist.
Flor.
Bah. II 1771 p. 1 PI.
1.
In all the shallow seas of the Bahama Islands.
Two examples from San Domingo West Indies.
Prof. W. M. Gabb.
A Porto Rican example in alcohol shows ten large rnvti bhtches on side and vertical fins with duskv.
Subgenus SPHYR.NA Schneider.
Scales small 100 or more.
Top of head rather narrow usually slightly convex.
Lower margin of orbit usually below middle of depth of head.
Body rather slender.
Sphyraena ensis Jordan and Gilbert.
Bull.
II.
S. Fish Com. 11 1SS2 p. 106.
Mazatlan Mexico.
Charles H.
Gilbert.
Head 3 from tip of mandible depth 7 D. Yl 9 A. II 8 scales about lOS in lateral line to base of caudal 8 more continued on latter snout 2 in head from its tip eye 5 maxillary 2J interorbital space 5i pectoral about 2.
Head slender jaws attenuate.
Eye low lower margin f in depth of head.
Interorbital space a little elevated convcxly two median ridges pronounced.
Maxillary reaching front margin of eye.
Mandible with fleshy tip.
Gillrakers better developed than in guachancho short numerous pointed rather firm.
Pectoral reaching well beyond spinous dorsal.
Spinous dorsal dusky.
Length 17 inches.
One example from Panama.
J.
A. McNeil.
Sphyraena picudilla Poey.
Plate XLVI lower figure.
Mem.
Hist.
Nat.
Cuba II 185658 p. 162.
Havane.
Head 23 fm tip of snout depth 8 D. VI 9 A. II 9 P. I 12 '.
I.
5 scales 110 in lateral line to base of caudal 5 more on latter width of head 4 in its length from tip of mandibles depth of head 31 first dorsal spine 3 pectoral 3 ventral 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 5 snout 2 in head from its own tip eye 6 maxillary 2f  interorbital space 5J.
Caudal peduncle stout compressed its least depth about 2 in its length.
JMandible with somewhat fleshy tip.
First dorsal spine longest though little longer than second.
Pectoral not reaching opposite origin of spinous dorsal.
Tip of lower jaw pale though a little dusky above.
Otherwise like tome.
Length about S inches.
One example.
Sambaia Brazil.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Sphyraena borealis De Kay.
Zool.
New York IV Fish. 1842 p. 39 PI.
60 fig.
196.
Harbor of New York .
Head 3yL depth 8 I.
VI 9 A. II 9 scales 121 in lateral line to base of caudal and about 5 more on latter eye 5 in head from tip of snout maxillary 2f.
One example 15 inches long from San Domingo West Indies.
Prof. W. M. Gabb.
Sphyraena tome sp.
nov.
Plate XLVI upper figure.
Head 3 measured from tip of mandible depth 8 D. VI 9 A. II S P. I 12 V. I 5 scales 135 in lateral line to base of caudal and several 5
more on latter 24
scales in a transverse oblique series between origin of spinous dorsal and that of ventral  width of head 4 in its length depth of head 31 mandible If second dorsal spine 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 6 ventral 3 snout 2 in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 6 maxillary 2  interorbital space 7.
Body rather slender not especially elongate not especially compressed but more or less cjdindrical.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth about 3 in its length.
Head elongate slender attenuate somewhat compressed and becoming a little constricted below.
Profiles similar and nearly straight.
Snout long slightly convex above with two frontal ridges approximated at first then more distant posteriorly and continued well up to top of head behind eyes.
Eye moderately large orbicular and its lower margin about  of distance in depth of head at that point axillary falling far short of front of orbit hardly reaching opposite posterior nostril.
Distal expanded extremity of maxillary equal to about I orbital diameter.
Mandiljle produced well beyond upper jaw and with a slightly fleshy tip.
Teeth uniserial in jaws.
Enlarged compressed and fangHke below and in sides of upper jaw short fine numerous and sharppointed.
A single large fang at symphysis of mandible and four large canines in front of upper jaw.
A single series of teeth on each palatine consisting of several large compressed fangs in front and giving place to small teeth like those in upper jaw posteriorly.
Tongue long slender pointed free mostly in front and with its upper surface finely asperous.
Lips rather broad and thin at corners of mouth.
Nostrils rather near together well in front of and about level with upper margin of eye.
Interorbital space a little less than eye and slightly elevated convexly.
Gillopening extending forward till a little behind front rim of orbit.
Rakers absent replaced by minute asperities.
Pseudobranchiae a little shorter than filaments which are a trifle less than half orbital diameter.
Isthmus roimded.
Scales small.
Head more or less covered with small scales obsolete at present on opercle where they may have fallen and those on cheek small.
Scales on trimk mostly fallen.
Bases of soft dorsal anal and caudal with small scales especially first rays of former two fins.
There they become minute and crowded.
Lateral line straight inclined from upper edge of gillopening to middle of base of caudal and consisting of rather large simple tubes.
Scales mostly remain throughout its course.
Spinous dorsal inserted a trifle before origin of ventral nearer tip of snout than base of caudal and spines rather pungent second longest.
Soft dorsal inserted midway between origin of spinous dorsal and base of caudal anterior or first rays elevated and highest.
Anal similar and its origin about opposite that of soft dorsal.
Caudal emarginate.
Pectoral small damaged though evidently falling well short of spinous dorsal.
Ventral small hardly reaching  of distance to origin of anal .
Anus close in front of anal fin.
Color in alcohol brown above silverywhite below.
Fins all pale brown dorsals and caudal tinted a little with dusky.
Tip of lower jaw blackish.
Eye brassy.
Peritoneum silvery.
Length caudal damaged 8 inches.
Type No.
11463 A. N. S. P.
Sambaia.
Presented by the .Mus.
Comp.
Zool. Cambridge Massachusetts.
One example the type.
I am unable to locate the type locality though subsequent labels refer it to Brazil.
It was found in the same jar with SI.
picudilla and originally identified as Sphyrcena vulgaris.
It differs from S. sphyrcena chiefly in fewer anal rays and from picudilla in same way though with more mnnerous scales in literal line.
Toj.7j that cuts acute.
Explanation of Plates XLV and XLVI.
Plate XLV.
 Liza alosoides Fowler.
Type No.
9771 A. N. S. P. West Africa.
Mugil incilis Hancock.
No.
9827 A. N. S. P. Guiaiia.
Plate XLVI.
 Sphyrcena tome P'owler.
Type No.
11463 A. N. S. P. Sambaia Sphyrwna pimdilla Poey.
No.
11464 A. N. S. P. Sambaia.
November 17.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
The Cause of Inverse Symmetry.
 Dr. Edwin G. Conklin remarked that the fact that animals with totally inverse symmetry may occur within the limits of the same species indicates tlVat the cause of this phenomenon must be an ontogenetic rather than a philogenetic one.
Furthermore in all cases in which the development of an inversely symmetrical animal has been studied the cleavage of the egg is also found to be inverse.
He had found that the inverse cleavage of Gasteropods may be traced back to the very first division of the egg and that this must be preceded by an inverse organization of the unsegmcnted egg.
No inverse organization can be detected in the ovarian eggs of sinistral snails and it is therefore probable that it arises about the time of the maturation or fertilization of the egg.
In dextral snails the polar bodies are formed at what was the free pole of the ovarian egg and if the polar bodies were to be formed at the opposite or attached pole in sinistral forms it would entirely and satisfactorily explain their inverse symmetry.
While such a reversal of the polarity of the egg in sinistral forms has not been demonstrated certain observations have been made which render it probable.
The subject was discussed by Messrs.
Chapman Pilsbry and Skinner.
Morgan Hebard and Henry W. Fowler were elected members.
Hugo de A'ries of Amsterdam Eduard Strasburger of Bonn and Nestor Grehant of Paris were elected correspondents.
The following were accepted for publication  is DESCRIPTION OF A NEW LANTERN FISH.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
MYCTOPHID.
CENTROBRANCHUS gen. nov.
Type CcntrobrancJius choeroccpJialus sp.
nov. Close to Rhinoscopelus Liitken but differing in the gillrakers which are short sparse clusters of asperities on the first arch.
Khrpir prick iSpdyyo giU Centrobranchus choerocephalus sp.
nov. Rhinoscopelus coruscans Fowler Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900. p. 498.
Near the Sandwich Islands.
Dr. William H.
Jones.
Not of Richardson.
Rhinoscopelus oceanicus Jordan and Evermann Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm. 1902 1903 p. 168.
Not description.
Part.
Head 3 depth 5 D. 10 A.
18 scales 35 in a lateral series to base of caudal  about 6 scales in a transverse series at origin of rayed dorsal  depth of head H in its length  width of head 2  snout 4i  eye 3  interorbital space 3 maxillary If least depth of caudal peduncle 5.
Body elongate well compressed slender and tapering posteriorly upper profile a little more convex anteriorly and greatest depth about origin of ventral.
Caudal peduncle long slender and its more or less even depth about 3 in length from adipose fin.
Head shaped somewhat like that of an Anchovy upper profile a little more convex especially at occiput and well compressed.
Snout protruding beyond mouth conic and a little shorter than orbit.
Eye small circular about midway in depth and near first third of head.
Mouth large inferior maxillary narrow or slender of even width and extending posteriorly well beyond orbit.
Mandibular rami formed of rather broad bones and extending far back like maxillary.
Teeth in jaws and on palatines minute and in narrow bands.
Vomer with similar teeth though a little more conspicuous.
Tongue a short conic protuberance in front of mouth.
Interorbital space convex.
A slight mesial elevation in the internasal depression.
Gillopening extending forward opposite middle of orbit.
Rakers about 315 clusters or groups of small inconspicuous prickles on first arch.
Filaments small.
Pseudobranchiae present.
Isthmus narrow and trenchant.
Scales large edges mostly entire cycloid stiff and rather narrowly imbricated along middle of side.
A few small scales on base of caudal fins otherwise naked.
Lateral line not evident.
Three mandibular photophores.
One on lower anterior portion of opercle.
An interorbital photophore.
One at lower base of pectoral and another just below along edge of gillopening.
Five thoracic.
One anterolateral above base of ventral.
One mediolateral low and just a little behind and above tip of ventral.
Another apparently mediolateral two scales behind and a little higher.
Posterolateral inconspicuous median in depth and also about midway between dorsals over breach in anals.
Vcntrals four.
Five anals then a breach and finally four more.
Six more continued along lower side of caudal peduncle without a breach then two more.
Two caudals below.
One caudal above.
Six large supercaudals beginning just behind adipose fin.
Dorsal rather small inserted nearer tip of snout than base of caudal and posterior base opposite front of anal.
Anal long inserted nearly midway between posterior margin of pupil and base of caudal anterior rays highest.
Adipose dorsal small a little before end of base of anal.
Caudal small.
Pectoral small inserted a little below middle of depth of body.
A'entral small inserted near last third in space between origin of pectoral and that of dorsal.
Color in alcohol deep dusky with iridescent bluish purplish and silvery reflections.
Fins plain pale brownish.
Photophores black with bright silvery centers.
Supercaudals with dull yellowish.
Iris dull dark yellowish.
Length IfV inches.
Tpe No.
7972 A. N. S. P. Near the Sandwich Islands.
Dr. William H. Jones.
Also three cotypes with same data and the smallest of these together with the type may probably be males as they are a little more attenuate than the others.
Originally I wrongly identified these examples with Mydophum coruscans Richardson.
Drs.
Jordan and Evcrmann consider them identical with their Rhinoscopelus oceanicus.
If occanicus is correct generically it is certainly distinct from the examples before me of choprocephalus.
Examination of R. coccoi typical of that genus show that it has long slender and numerous gillrakers on the first arch.
R. oceanicus would further differ in the large eye 2h in head and deeper body 4yV in length.
Xnpo pig KtcpaXrij head.
756 Nov. A LIST OF SHELLS COLLECTED IN WESTERN FLORIDA AND HORN ISLAND MISSISSIPPI.
BY E. G. VANATTA.
During February and March 1902 Mr. Clarence B. Moore collected the following species of shells while on an archaeological expedition in western Florida.
Most of the specimens were picked up on the shore.
The numbers after the species correspond to the numbers of the localities as follows 1.
AlHgator Harbor Franklin county Florida.
2.
St. George's Sound Franklin county Florida.
3.
Indian Pass Apalachicola Bay Calhoun county Florida.
4.
St. Joseph's Bay Calhoun county Florida.
5.
Crooked Island off St. Andrew's Sound Calhoun county Florida.
6.
St. Andrew's Bay Washington county Florida.
Those numbered 7 are a collection of shells from Horn Island Mississippi presented to the Academy some years ago.
It is hoped that this list which well covers the western coast of nonpeninsular Florida will be a useful appendix to Prof. W. H. Ball's Bulletin 37 of the U. S. National Iuseum.
I wish to thank Prof. W. H. Dall Mr. C. W. Johnson and Dr. H. A. Pilsbry for their assistance in identifying some of the species of this collection.
Class PELECYPODA.
Osirea virginica Gmel.
2 4 5.
Anomia simplex Orb.
4 5 7.
Plicatula gibbosa Lam.
4 5 7 Peden gibbus irradians Lam.
1 3 4 5 6 7.
Atrina rigida Dillw.
4.
Atrina serrata Sol.
Sowb.
4.
Mytilus exustus L. 5.
Modiolus tulipus L. 14 5.
Modiolus demissus Dillw.
4.
Area ponderosa Say.
1 3 4 5 7.
Area transversa Say.
3 5 7.
Area ineongrua Say.
1 3 4 7.
A rca campeeJiiens is Gmel .
134 .
4.
5.
Area seeticostata Reeve.
4 Glycimeris americana Defr.
Leda acuta Conr.
3 4 5.
Cardita floridana Conr.
1 5 Cuna dalli Van.
3 4 5.
Crassinella lunulata Conr.
3 Anisodonta elHptiea Reel.
5.
Erycina floridana Van.
5.
Lucina chrysostoma Phil.
4 .5.
Phacoides trisideatus Conr.
5.
Phaeoides nassida Conr.
4 5.
Phacoides floridanus Conr. 4 5.
7.
Phaeoides radians Conr.
4 5 7 Phaeoides erenella Dall.
3 4.
5 7.
1903.
757 Phacoides amiantus Dall.
4 5 7.
DivariceUa quadrisulcata Orb.
5.
Diplodonta punctata Say.
5 7.
Chama arcinella L. 4.
Cardium rohustuyn Sol.
3 4 5 67.
Cardium isocardium L. 1 4 5.
Cardium muricatum L. 3 4.
Cardium scrratum L. 3 4 5 7.
Cardium mortoni Conr.
6.
Venus mercenaria L. 14.
Fe7us mercenaria mortoni Conr.
3 5 7.
Fenws cribraria Conr.
4 5 7.
Fewws cancellata L 4 5 7.
Feius pygmcea Lsun.
4 5 7.
Fems cuneimeris Conr.
4 5.
Gemma gemma purpurea Lea.
4.
Parastarte triquetra Conr.
4 5.
Meretrix simpsoni Dall.
4 5.
Meretrix eucymata Dall.
7.
Meretrix conradiana Dall.
4 5.
Meretrix texasiana Dall.
3.
Callista nimhosa Sol.
1 4 5 6 7.
Dosinia discus Rve.
1 4 5 7.
Petricola pholadiforynis Lam.
45.
3 5.
1 3 7.
0 .
7.
45.
Donax variabilis Say.
1 3 4 5 67.
Donax obesa Orb.
3 4 5 7.
Tagelus divisus Spengl.
3 5.
Tellina magna Spengl.
Tellina alternata Say Tellina tenera Say.
3.
Tellina polita Say.
4.
Tellina consohrina Orb.
Tellina lintca Conr.
5 Tellina pauperata Orb.
Macoma constricta Broug.
3 Macoma brevifrons Say.
7.
Macoma tenia Say.
5.
Tellidora cristata Reel.
5.
Strigilla flexuosa Say.
4 5 ilfeis intastriata Say.
4.
A6ra cequalis Say.
3 4 5 7.
Ervilia concentrica Gld.
4 5.
Semele bellastriaia Conr.
4 Spisida solidissima similis I 3 4 5 7.
Midinia lateralis Say.
3 Labiosa canaliculata Say Panopea bitruncata Conr.
Ensis directus Conr.
5.
Barnea costata Sav.
3.
Say.
4 5.
7.
137.
5.
Class SOAPHOPODA.
Dentalium disparile Orb.
4 5.
Class GASTROPODA Tornatina candei Orb.
4 5.
Cylichnella bidentata Orb.
3.
Bullus occidentalis A.
Ad.
5.
Melampus coffea gundlachi Pfr.
6.
Terebra dislocata Say.
4 5.
Mangilia cerina K. and S. 4 5.
Cancellaria reticulata L. 5.
OZiw literata Lam.
1 3 4 5.
Olivella mutica Say.
4.
Olivella pusilla Marr.
4 5.
Marginella apicina Menke.
5.
Fasciolaria tulipa Lam.
4 5.
Fulgur pyrum Dillw.
4 5.
Fulgur perversa L. 4 5.
Melongena corona Gmel.
4.
Tritonidea cancellaria Conr.
7.
Nassa acuta Say.
4 5.
Columbella avara Sav.
5.
758 Nov. 6.
Litorina irrorata Say.
4 Rissoina broivniana Orb.
5.
Crepidula jornicata L. 3 4 5 6 Crepidula plana Say.
4 5.
Crepidula aculcata Gmel.
3.
Natica pus ill a Say.
4 5.
Polinices duplicatus Say.
57.
Sigaretus perspectivus Say 45.
Turbo castaneus crentdatus Gmel 5 6.
Teinostoma cryptospira Verr.
5 Vitrinella mooreana Yan.
5.
1.
3 4 1 3 Columbella obesa Say.
4 5.
Murex fulvescens Sowb.
3.
Purpura hcemastoma L. 7.
Pyramidella crenulata Holmes.
45.
Turbonilla conradi Bush.
3 4 5.
Cassis inflata Shaw.
4 5 6.
Pyrula papyratia Say.
3 4 5.
S trombus pug His L. 4 5.
Strombus pugilis alatus Gmel.
46.
Seila adamsii H. C. Lea.
5.
Ccecum pulchellum Stimp.
5.
CoBcum cooper i Smith.
5.
Meioceras nitida Stimp.
5.
The following species are believed to be new  Vitrinella mooreana n. sp.
Fig.
i.
Shell umbilicate discoidal with about 4 whorls.
The first whorl is yellow and smooth the remaining are white and sculptured with heavy spiral cords of which there are 5 on the penultimate whorl and 7 on the body whorl above the periphery.
The granulate interstices are about as wide as the spiral cords.
The base is sculptured with very faint spiral striae.
The aperture is oblique and suborbicular with the columella broadly thickened.
Alt.
1.2 diam.
2.75 aperture alt.
1 diam.
1 mm.
This species was collected by Mr. Clarence B. Moore on the gulf side of Crooked Island off St. Andrew's Sound Calhoun county Florida.
The types are No.
84611 A. N. S. P. It is named in honor of its collector Mr. Moore.
The species seems to be near V. multistriata Verr. but differs in having 7 strong spiral cords above the periphery and a nearly smooth base.
It differs in having a thickened columella.
Fig.
1. from V .
striata Orb Erycina floridana n. sp.
Fig.
2.
Shell small white thin subquadrate with the ends nearly evenly rounded almost equilateral beaks low surface sculptured with irregular lines of growth.
Hinge with a central pit and rather large lateral 1903.
759 teeth four being in one valve and two in the other.
The adductor scars are rather large connected by an irregular pallial line.
Alt.
5 length S.25.
thickness of 1 valve 1.75 mm.
This species was collected by Mr. Clarence B. Moore on the gulf side of Crooked Island Florida.
The types are No.
83876 A. N. S. P. Prof. W. H. Dall kindlcompared it with his species from the Florida Pliocene.
It is very near E. kurtzii Dall but seems to be more delicate with stronger laterals and more evenlv rounded ends.
Fig.
2 Fig.
3.
Cuna dalli n. sp.
Fig.
3.
Shell subtriangular ineciuilateral purple in the center becoming lighter near the edge surface sculptured with concentric costse ventral margin smooth adductor muscle scars rather large hinge strong and broad.
The right valve has three cardinals the anterior is long and low the central large and triangular the posterior short and narrow situated at the edge of the large ligament pit.
In the left valve the anterior cardinal is long and low the curved central is smaller than the central of the opposite valve the posterior cardinal is a small ridge at the edge of the ligament.
I'allial line entire.
Alt.
2.5 length 2.4 thickness of one valve .8 mm.
The types of this species are No.
84612 A. N. S. P. They were collected by Mr. Moore at Indian Pass Apalachicola Bay Florida he also collected the same species at St. Joseph Bay and on the gulf side of Crooked Island off St. Andrew's Sound Florida.
This species is more rounded and inequilateral than Parastarte triquetra Conr. and lacks the crenulation on the ventral margin.
It has a broader hinge than Gemma gemma Totten but the surface sculpture is very similar.
It is more inequilateral than Cuna concentrica Hedley but the hinge is similar.
Cuna particula Hedley is more rounded and truncate with a slightly different hinge.
769 proceedings of the academy of dcc December 1.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Twentyfour persons present.
The deaths of the following members were announced  Enoch Iewis November 15 1902 Charles W. Trotter August 5 1903 Mrs. J. Edgar Thomson November 24 1903 and Charles Schacffcr M.D. November 23 1903.
On the announcement of the death of Dr. Charles Schaeffer the following minute was unanimously adopted  Conscious of the loss it has sustained in the death of Dr. Charles Schaeffer the Academy desires to place on record a minute to that effect.
Since his election to membership in 1861 Dr. Schaeffer had been lojally interested in the wellbeing and growth of the society.
He served acceptably as a member of the Council and of the Library Committee.
His efficiency as Secretary of the Botanical the Mineral ogical and the Biological and Microscopical Sections is proof of the wide sphere of his naturestudies while his skill in photography enabled him to permanently place the results of his work in the cabinet and in the field at the service of his fellowstudents.
He thus alike recorded with loving care and exquisite fidelity the floral beauties of the fields and dells he had known from childhood and the glories of the distant snowclad peaks of the western mountains where for many years he periodically drew store of health and inspiration.
He made the needs of the Academy at large matters of personal concern and was ever ready with wise counsel and practical encouragement while in his intercourse with his fellowmembers he was notably gentle courteous and sympathetic.
His memory will be held in affectionate regard.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a communication on the fishes of Nantucket.
It will be incorporated in a paper to be published in the next volume of the Proceedings.
Ganglia of Odonata.
 Dr. Philip P. Calvert spoke of the abdominal and thoracic ganglia of dragonflies Odonata stating that the eight pairs constituting the abdominal portion of the ventral nerve cord of young larvse are reduced to seven in later larval life by the fusion of the first pair wuth the third thoracic Mschna Anax.
The second abdominal pair move forward to lie in the first abdominal segment leaving the second segment alone of the first eight without ganglia.
This later condition is likewise that of the adults of the suborder Anisoptera as far as known.
Adults of at least some species of the suborder Zygoptera show some differences Calvert Proc.
Calif. Acad.
Sci. 3d series I p. 410 1899.
The following were accepted for publication  MEXICAN LAND AND FRESHWATER MOLLUSKS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The following report is based chiefly upon material collected by Mr. S. N. Rhoads during two expeditions to Mexico the first in February March and April 1899 the second undertaken early in 1893 and unfortunately cut short by his recall to Philadelphia after only a few days in the field.
Occasion has been taken to include sundry notes upon and descriptions of new Mexican and Central American mollusks in the collection of the Academy worked up in the course of study upon Mr. Rhoads' collection the whole being supplemental to the great works upon this fauna of Fischer and Crosse E. von IMartens and H. Strebel. The species of greatest interest in Mr. Rhoads' collection is that I have elsewhere described as Metostracon mima an extraordinary sluglike snail which contributes not only a genus new to Mexico but a totally new line of differentiation in the family Helicidce.
From the faunistic standpoint the collections made at 'ictoria in Tamaulipas and at lonterey and the adjacent mining village of Diente in Nuevo Leon are of great importance confirming the northward extension of the Neotropical region in east Mexico already mapped on the evidence of the birds of that district.
The localities mentioned are sufficiently alike in their faunse to be considered together.
In a total of 46 species.
Fifteen arc identical with characteristic species of Vera Cruz Province Three are identical with species of the States of Mexico Jalisco etc.
 Ten are identical with species of Texas Five of the above occur from Vera Cruz to Texas Twenty are species special to Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas.
but belonging to Vera Cruzian genera or smaller groups  Three are species special to Nuevo Leon and TamauliiDas but belonging to groups ranging from YersL Cruz to Texas.
 As the literature has been fully cited by these authors I have thought the insertion of references to be needless except in dealing with new species described in my previous paper on Mr. Rhoads' collection and in a few other cases inadequately treated in the larger works or omitted therefrom.
There are therefore 33 distinctively Neotropical species 5 species as characteristic of the Texan fauna and 8 species with a wide distribution in both regions or lelonging to groups with such a distribution.
Part of the latter are doubtless of Neotropical origin ultimately but in two cases Zonitoides arboreus and Bifidaria curvidens truly Palsearctic.
HELIOID.
Helix aspersa Mull.
Tlalpam State of Mexico and Pueblo State of Pueblo at both places in abundance.
AtTlalpam they are all small diam.
24 to 29 mm. and similar to Kobelt's fig.
364 of Plate 69 in Vol.
Ill n. F. of Rossmassler's Iconographie except that there are 5 or 4 bands as in fig.
350 of PL 67.
The shells from Pueblo are larger 26 to 33 mm.
diam. with band formulae varying from 1 2 3 4 5 to 1 2 3 4 5.
Lysinoe humboldtiana buffoniana Pfr..
Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
Adult shells measure from 27 X 33 to 37 x 42 mm.
Trichodiseina cordovana Pfr..
Texolo V. C caiion 4 miles west of Victoria Tamaulipas Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
The last two localities extend the range of this species far to the north.
Metostracon mima Pilsbry.
Proc.
Malac.
Soc.
London IV p. 27 PI.
3 figs.
111.
Morelia and Uruapam iMichoacan.
Xanthonyx salleanus Pfr.
Texolo V. C. Praticolella berlandieriana Moric.
Around Victoria Tamaulipas and at lonterey and Topo Chico Nuevo Leon.
Praticolella griseola Pfr..
Antigua V. C. Praticolella ampla Pfr..
Texolo V. C. Praticolella strebeliana Pils.
PI.
LI figs.
6 6a.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 394.
Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
Polygyra plagioglossa Pfr.
Patzcuaro Michoacan Pueblo State of Pueblo.
Polygyra suprazonata Pils.
PI.
LXI figs.
1 la 16.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 393.
Tzintzimtzan State of Michoacan.
Polygyra rhoadsi Pils.
PI.
LXI figs.
2 2a 26.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 392.
Topo Chico near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
Thysanophora conspurcatella Morel..
Antigua V. C. Thysanophora impura Pfr..
Antigua V. C. Thysanophora proxima Pils.
PI.
XLIX figs.
2 2a.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 394.
Uruapam Huingo Patzcuaro and Morelia in the State of Michoacan the types from the former locahty.
Thysanophora horni Gabb.
'ictoria State of Tamauhpas in chaparral Topo Chico near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
The specimens have been carefully compared with the types from Arizona and are undoubtedly this species which when fresh has a sparsely hairy cuticle.
See Nautilus XIII 98.
It is new to the Mexican fauna.
Thysanophora coloba Pilsbry.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1893 p. 403 figs in text.
Polvon department of Chinandega western Nicaragua McNiel expedition.
A minute species diam.
L8 mm. overlooked by the authors of the Biologia and Mission Scientifiqiie and inserted here to rescue it from oblivion.
In this connection it may be mentioned that Pupisoma americanum Mlldff. Nachrhl.
d. d. vialak.
Ges. 1899 p. 91 is apparently a synonym of Thysanophora caeca.
Thysanophora fischeri n. sp.
PI.
XLIX figs.
G 6a.
Shell umbihcate depressedconic thin pale brown.
Surface dull sculptured with thin cuticular laminse more oblique than the lines of growth.
Spire conic the apex obtuse.
Whorls 4 very convex the last rounded peripherally and beneath.
Umbilicus contained about 7 times in the diameter of the shell.
Aperture quite oblique roundedlunate the peristome thin and simple columellar margin dilated.
Alt.
1.5 diam.
2.4 mm.
Tamaulipas in a cafion about 4 miles west of Victoria.
Tjpes No.
85911 A. N. S. P. collected by S. N. Rhoads 1903.
This species is almost exactly intermediate between T. granum Strebel and T. conspurcatella Morel..
It is lower than the former species with a larger umbilicus and higher than the latter with the umbilicus narrower.
It unites the group of species referred to Acanthinula by von Martens with the typical forms of Thysanophora.
Named in honor of one of the authors of the volumes on mollusks in the Mission Scientifique au Mexique.
Thysanophora tatei Pilsbry.
PI.
XLIX figs.
3 3a 36.
Helix blakeana Tate Amer.
Jour of Conch. V p. 155 PI.
16 fig.
3 1870.
Not H. blakeana Newc 1861.
Thysanophora tatei Pils.
Shell depressed discoidal the spire but slightly convex openly umbilicate the width of the umbilicus contained about 3f times in the diameter of the shell thin slightly translucent grayish corneous.
Sculpture of fine rather close but somewhat irregularly spaced threadlike ribstrise in harmony with growthlines.
Whorls 3 convex slowly increasing to the last which is double the width of the preceding rounded peripherally and beneath.
Suture very deep and conspicuous.
Aperture shghtly oblique roundlunate about onefourth of the circle excised by the preceding whorl lip thin and simple throughout the margins converging.
Alt.
1.8 diam.
3 mm.
Chontales forest Nicaragua.
The unique type is No.
58065 A. N. S. P. collected by Ralph Tate.
The name given by Tate to this species is preoccupied.
It was omitted from Crosse and Fischer's great work and placed in the synonymy of Pseudohyalina minuscula by von iMartens.
It is related to some undetermined species in the collection of the Academy from northern South America but has no very close relatives among Mexican snails so far as I know.
The generic position of this snail is uncertain but it has more the appearance of Thysanophora than of any Zonitid group.
The threadlike ribstria
are not cuticular but more like the striae of Pyramidula.
BULIMULID.
Bulimulus dealbatus Say.
Iontcrey State of Nuevo Leon.
A slender form closely mottled and streaked.
Bulimulus dealbatus schiedeanus Pfr.
Saltillo Coahuila S. N. Rhoads 1899.
The large typical form of schiedeanus.
Bulimulus alternatus mariae Alb.
Monterey State of Nuevo Leon in chaparral near Victoria Tamaulipas.
Specimens from Monterey are like that from Laredo Texas figured in Manual of Conchology XI PI.
17 fig.
24.
Those from near Victoria are similarly marked but are smaller.
Both have the hp thickened and the mouth brown or purplishbrosTi inside the tint rather dilute in some specimens.
Drymaeus emeus Say.
Caiion 4 miles west of Victoria Tamaulipas.
Specimens like von Martens' figures 7 7a of Plate 14 of the Biologia.
This is far north of all previous records.
Drymaeus sulphureus Pfr.
Texolo V. C. Drymaeus hegewischi Pfr..
Texolo V. C. Drymaeus dunkeri Pfr..
Patzcuaro and Tzintzuntzan Michoacan.
XJROCOPTID.
Microceramus mexicanus Marts..
Man.
of Conch.
2 XVI p. 156 PI.
26 figs.
26 27 specimen from Diente.
Around Victoria Tamaulipas and Diente near lonterey NueA'o Leon.
This form is readily distinguishable from both M. concisus on the south and M .
texanus on the north.
It occurred in numbers and is no doubt a widely spread and characteristic east Mexican species.
Subgenus GYROCION nov.
Slender cylindrelloid snails with the axis large hollow and smooth apex smooth and apparently retained entire.
Whorls extremely numerous and narrow some intermediate ones with a spiral lamella within on the basal partition.
Characters of the aperture unknown.
This group is proposed for an imperfectly known snail which cannot well be placed in any of the recognized genera though it apparently is related to Epirohia and Holospira.
The former group differs b its rugose axis and in the absence of a spiral basal lamella.
Further examples of the complete shell and a knowledge of the dentition are necessary for an adequate definition of the position of the group.
Epirobia Gyrocion mirabilis n. sp.
PI.
L figs.
10 10a.
The shell is cylindric below gradually tapering above to an entire apex composed of vermany narrow and strongly convex whorls light brown  finely and closely costulatestriate vertically.
The apex is obtuse smooth and rather globular the following three whorls are equal in diameter the calibre of the shell then slowly enlarges until the cylindric portion has a diameter of 2.5 mm.
The hollow central axis is nearly onethird the diameter of the shell and is smooth.
In the lower part of the tapering portion a low lamella revolves in the middle of the floor or basal wall of the whorls.
Length of the fragment of the tapering portion figured 6 mm.
 whorls 17.
Length of cylindric fragment 4.2 mm.
 whorls about 5.
Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
85914 A. N. S. P. two fragments collected by S. N. Rhoads.
1903.
PUPID.
Pupoides marginatus Say.
Topo Chico near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
Abundant.
Bifidaria contracta Say.
Texolo V. C.
Rhoads.
Hitherto known from only two places in Mexico Orizaba V. C and Yautepec Morelcs collected by the Heilprin expedition of 1890.
Bifidaria prototypus Pils.
PI.
L figs.
7 la.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 400.
The angular and parietal lamellae are more separated than in any other species of the typical group of Bifidaria.
Bifidaria pellucida hordeacella Pils..
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 p. 594.
Antigua V. C.  canon 4 miles from Victoria Tamaulipas.
Bifidaria curvidens Old..
Canon 4 miles west of Victoria State of Tamaulipas.
This species is new to the Mexican fauna.
Strobilops strebeli Pfr..
Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
ZONITID.
Omphalina martensiana n. sp.
PI.
XLVIII figs.
7 7a 76.
Shell depressed shaped about like 0. lucubrata Say umbilicate pale green with a broad maroon band at the periphery another below the suture leaving a palegreen band above the periphery visible on the whorls of the spire just above the suture the first two whorls greenish the base inside the peripheral maroon band is also green.
Surface glossy sculptured above with almost regularly spaced radial grooves in harmony with the lines of growth the base marked with growthwrinkles between the radial grooves there are fine sparse forwardlydescending very minute raised lines which on the base are more 190 767 numerous and in a spiral direction.
Whorls 5 slightly convex regularly widening to the last which is fully double the width of the preceding rounded peripherally.
Aperture oblique roundedlunate.
Alt.
13.5 diam.
22.3 mm.
 width of umbilicus 2 mm.
Guatemala Huehuetenango.
Type No.
85521 A. N. S. P. collected by Mr. Gustav Eisen and communicated to me by Mr. Fred L. Button.
This is a superb OmpJialina perhaps the finest of the genus in color and sculpture.
In proportions it is near 0. lucuhrata Say from which it differs in coloration and sculpture the radial grooves of the upper surface being like those of Vitrea indentata on a large scale.
With the red bands of 0. hilineata it is a much larger shell quite different in sculpture.
Teetli of Omphalina martensiana.
The jaw is like other species of the genus.
The radula has 62.7.1.7.62 teeth the seventh on each side being transitional.
The teeth at the middle of the marginal series fig.
31 have unusually long and graceful cusps.
Omphalina bilincata has fewer lateral teeth only 5 the last being a transition tooth.
The name is to honor the author of the splendid volume on moUusks in the Biologia Centrali Americana.
Omphalina bilineata Pfr..
Near Jalapa V. C. Of 5 specimens four have narrow bands at periphery and suture the other one being bandless.
Omphalina lucubrata Say.
Texolo  C A fine series taken by Mr. Rhoads in 1899.
Omphalina montereyensis Pils.
PI.
XLVIII figs.
6 6a 66.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1899 p. 395.
Diente a village near Monterey Nuevo Leon S. N. Rhoads 1899 and 1903.
A large series shows this to be very constant in shape and in the comparative size of the umbilicus the width of which is contained about 9 or 10 times in that of the shell.
Iost of the specimens are smaller than the t'pe lot.
Alt.
6 diam.
12.5 width of umbilicus 1 mm.
Alt.
6 diam.
10.5 width of umbilicus 1 mm.
Alt.
6 diam.
11.3 Avidth of umbilicus 1 mm.
Omphalina montereyensis victoriana n. subsp.
PI.
XLVIII figs.
5 5a 56.
Similar to the typical form except that the umlDilicus is constantly larger its width contained about 6 times in that of the shell.
Alt.
5.5 diam.
10.5 width of umbilicus 1.7 mm.
Canon 4 miles west of Victoria Tamaulipas.
Types No.
85912 A. N. S. P. Over a hundred specimens show the slight difference between this and 0. montereyensis to be constant.
Oinphalina carinata Strebel.
Jalapa in forest Rhoads.
Vitrea indentata Say.
 Uruapam Michoacan.
Some of the specimens are perforate others apparently closed.
They are rather small hke the common typical form not like the large perforate Texan variety.
Zonitoides arboreus Say.
Diente near lonterey Nuevo Leon Texolo V. C. The specimens from the former place wholly typical that from the latter not quite fullgrown and whiter than usual so that I am not ciuite positive about the identification.
Zonitoides minusculus Binn..
Topo Chico near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon.
Pycnogyra berendti Pfr.
Texolo X. C. Guppya trochulina Morel.
Texolo V. C.  Patzcuaro and Ioreha'Michoacan.
Guppya elegans Strebel.
Diente near Montei'ey Nuevo Leon L'ruapam lichoacan An allied species I have not identified was taken in abundance in a cailon near Victoria Tamaulipas.
Guppya gundlachi Pfr.
Tamaulipas in chaparral near Mctoria and in a canon about four miles west of that place Rhoads 1903.
Also in the collection of the Academy from Polvon Nicaragua collected by Ralph Tate Guppya micra n. sp.
PI.
XLIX figs.
5 5a 56.
Shell distinctly perforate lowtrochoidal the spire low conic obtuse at the summit periphery rounded the base convex yellowish slightly transparent nearly smooth.
Whorls 4 quite convex slowly and regularh' increasing parted b a wellimpressed suture.
Aperture lunate only slightly oblique the columellar margin dilated.
Alt.
1.5 diam.
2 mm.
Patzcuaro Michoacan.
Types No.
85913 A. N. S. P. collected by 8.
N. Rhoads 1899.
Also caiion 4 miles west of Mctoria Tamaulipas.
ENDODONTID.E.
Pyramidula victoriana n. sp.
PI.
XLIX figs.
1 la 16.
Shell depressed discoidal the spire flat base convex openly umbilicate the width of umbilicus contained about 34times in that of the shell thin greenish corneous.
Surface closely and regularly sculptured with oblique threadlike riblets following the direction of growthlines.
Whorls 3 the last double the width of the preceding rounded at the periphery.
Aperture oblique subcircular about onefifth or onesixth of the circle excised by the preceding whorl  peristome thin and simple the ends converging.
Alt.
1.4 diam.
3.4 mm.
Alt.
1.5 diam.
4 mm.
 whorls 3.
Cafion 4 miles west of A'ictoria State of Tamaulipas.
Types No.
85907 A. N. S. P. Also in chaparral near Victoria.
Quite unlike any North American species in the wide last whorl and flat spire as well as the nearly round mouth.
It has the sculpture of Pyramidula and is probably a member of that genus.
The only fresh specimen is figured and probably is not quite mature.
Another bleached and imperfect one is larger with a fourth of a whorl more.
Four specimens were taken.
Sphyradium polvonense Pils..
Pupa polvonensis Pilsbrv Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. 1894 p. 31 PI.
I fig.
11.
Shell openly perforate sulcylindric a little tapering upward the summit rounded.
Whitish above with some narrow dark streaks the last whorl or two olivaceousbrown with narrow darker and light oblique streaks.
Surface shining faintly marked with fine growth lines only.
Whorls 5 or 6 slightly convex the last very convex beneath.
Aperture quite oblique truncateovate.
Outer lip thin and simple columellar lip Ijroadly dilated above.
Length 2.5 diam.
1.3 mm.
49 Western Nicaragua  Pol von.
in the department of Chinandega.
Types are No.
5096 A. N. S. P. collected by the McNeil expedition.
Compared with the Holarctic Sphyradiu7n cdentulurn this tropical species is less cylindric tapers more and the whorls are much less convex moreover the color is different.
It was figured in these Proceedings under the name Pupa polvonensis many years ago.
A description is now supplied.
It is the first Neotropical species of the genus but until jaw and teeth are examined the generic position ill remain uncertain although the shell has the form of Sphijradium.
Pyramidula liermaniii Pfr.
Moreha Uruapam and Patzcuaro Michoacan Rhoads 1899.
PHILOMYOID.
Philomycus crosseanus Strebel.
Texolo V. C. A single specimen.
GLANDINID.
The detail figures of sculpture in all cases are taken from the front of the last whorl immediately below the suture.
Except where otherwise indicated on the plates the other figures of Glandina are natural size.
Glandina vanuxemensis Lea.
Pueblo State of Mexico.
Glandina michoacanensis Pils.
PI.
XLVII figs.
1 la 1.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 397.
Uruapam Michoacan.
Types No.
77181 A. N. S. P. The figures show adult and young shells.
Glandina huingensis n. sp.
PI.
XLVII figs.
2 2a 2.
Shell obese oblong rather solid fleshybrown in color.
Surface glossy sculptured with irregular growthwrinkles which are strengthened into folds at the suture which is sharply irregularly denticulate.
Spire short very obtuse at the summit.
Whorls 5 the first 2J smooth next whorl narrower the followmg ones rapidly widening the last halfturn of the suture more obliquely descending.
Aperture twothirds the length of the shell.
Columella deeply concave.
Length 31 diam.
17 length of aperture 21.7 mm.
Huingo Michoacan.
Types No.
77179 A. N. S. P. collected by S. N. Rhoads 1899.
This species resembles G. indusiata Pfr.
in shape and it may prove to be a variety of that species  but there is no trace of the epidermis described and figured by Fischer and Crosse nor of the spiral striation.
It seems therefore advisable to describe the Huingo form.
Glandina victoriana n. sp.
PL XLVII figs.
4 4a 46.
Shell cylindricoblong slender rather thin very glossy fleshybrown marked at wide intervals with opaquewhite longitudinal lines.
Sculptured throughout with close regular smooth and rounded ribstriae as wide as their intervals and somewhat denticulating the suture.
Spire convexconic the apex obtuse.
Whorls 7 the first 3 smooth.
Aperture about half the length of the shell narrowly acuminate.
Outer lip arched forward a little in the middle.
Columella concave oblique below and truncate as usual.
Length 37 diam.
11.7 length of aperture 19 mm.
Length 44 diam.
14 length of aperture 21 mm.
Canon 4 miles west of Victoria State of Tamaulipas.
Types No.
85918 A. N. S. P. collected by S. N. Rhoads 1903.
This species is distinguished by its narrow elongate shape smooth regular and close riblets without spiral lines and the occasional white lines marking temporary growtharrests.
It is related to G. texasiana but differs in the markedly elongate shape etc.
Glandina rhoadsi Pilsbry.
PI.
XLVII figs.
3 3a 36.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 395.
Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77172 A. N. S. P. An additional lot collected by Mr. Rhoads in 1903 shows some variation in the shape of the columella which may be either nearly straight below or decidedly curved.
The darker streaks mentioned in the original description are never conspicuous and often are seen only on close examination.
The striation is not clearly enough indicated in fig.
3.
Length 54 diam.
19 length of apertme 29 mm.
Length 50 diam.
17 length of aperture 25 mm.
Length 53 diam.
18.5 length of aperture 26 mm.
Length 47 diam.
17 length of aperture 25 mm.
Glandina delicata n. sp.
PI.
XLVIII figs.
1 la 16.
Shell pale yellowishcorneous thin and delicate fusiform tapering toward both ends.
Surface closely ribstriate the costulse about as wide as the intervals and slightly weaker at the base.
Spire tapering to a rather small apex the first 3 to Zh whorls smooth.
Aperture more than half the shell's length the outer lip thin but slightly arched forward receding at base.
Columella short and nearly straight abruptly truncate.
Length 23. diam.
9 length of aperture 14 mm.
Tamaulipas Canon 4 miles west of Victoria.
Types No.
85917 A. N. S. P. collected by S. N. Rhoads January 21 1903.
A small sharply striate species.
The aperture is larger than in G. delicatula.
Another specimen of the type lot has a somewhat shorter spire measuring length 22.5 diam.
9 length of aperture 13.3 mm.
Glandina delicata alticola n. subsp.
PI.
XLVIII fig.
2.
Shell smaller and more cylindric than G. delicata with comparatively stronger sculpture 6 whorls and decidedly curved columella.
Length 17 diam.
6.5 length of aperture 10 mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77174 A. N. S. P. collected by S. N. Rhoads.
Glandina oblonga tamaulipensis n. subsp.
PI.
XLVII figs.
6 6a 66.
Shell narrowly oblong the last whorl somewhat cylindric spire slowly tapering to a rather large obtuse apex.
Surface very glossy smooth except for irregularly spaced rather distinct and unequal impressed lines in the direction of lines of growth and the suture is bordered with fine short and close folds.
Whorls fully Ih regularly increasing the last suture not more obliquely descending.
Aperture about half the length of the shell the outer lip arched forward in the middle basal lip retracted columella short very concave above and convex below.
Length 15 diam.
5.7 length of aperture 7.5 mm.
Length 15 diam.
5.3 length of aperture 7.3 mm.
Tamaulipas in a canon about 4 miles west of Victoria elevation about 3000 feet.
Types No.
85910 A. N. S. P. collected by S. N. Rhoads January 21 1903.
A single specimen taken at Diente also seems to belong here.
This form which was found in abundance is evidently close to G. ohlonga Pfr. but it is less plicate below the suture and the columella is more curved.
Fig.
6 represents a young shell.
Glandina dalli Pilsbry.
PI.
XLVII figs.
5 5a.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 396.
Diente near lonterey Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77173 A. N. S. P. Glandina monilifera Pfr.
Glandina iheringi Pils. Nautilus XIV p. 4 May 1900 is a synonym of this species.
Salasiella joaquinse Strebel.
Several specimens taken at Diente near Monterey N. L. seem referable to this species described from the Province of Vera Cruz.
2 Biologia CcntraliAmer. Moll. p. 69 PI.
5 fig.
6.
1903.
77 73 Salasiella perpusilla Pfr.
Figs.
2 3.
Diente Nuevo Leon.
Figured for comparison with the following species.
The specimens from Orizaba formerly identified by me as S. perpusilla appear on renewed study with more material to be S. modesta Pfr.
As Strebel has pointed out .S.
perpusiUa is more convex below the suture than S. modesta and the same feature distinguishes it from S. minima and S. suhcylindrica.
The specimen from Diente shown in fig.
3 measures length 3.3 diam.
1.4 length of aperture 1.9 mm.
Salasiella modesta Pfr.
Figs.
4 5.
Glandina Salasiella perpusilla Pilsbry Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1891 p. 311.
Two specimens from Orizaba an adult and a young one are figured.
Fig.
1.
Salasiella suhcylindrica.
Diente near Monterey.
Figs.
2 3.
Salasiella perpusilla.
Diente near Monterey.
Figs.
4 5.
Salasiella modesta.
Orizaba.
Fig.
6.
Salasiella minima.
Orizaba.
All figures drawn with camera lucida to tlie same scale.
the latter for comparison with S. minima the former with S. sihcylindrica.
The specimen drawn in fig.
4 measures length 3.7 diam.
1.47 length of aperture 2.1 mm.
Salasiella minima n. sp.
Fig.
6.
Very minute cylindricoblong almost equally obtuse at both ends  thin corneous and transparent showing the internal partitions through the shell.
Surface glossy and but very faintly marked with gro'thlines.
Whorls 4 suture with a narrow margin by transparence.
Other characters as usual in the genus.
Length 2.6 diam.
1 length of aperture 1.6 mm.
 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1891 p. 311.
Hills around Orizaba about 500 feet above the town.
Type No.
58070 A. N. S. P. collected by Witmer Stone of the Heilprin expedition of 1890.
This smallest species of the genus is not unlike S. modcsta in shape liut it is built on a much smaller scale.
For comparison I figure a young specimen of S. modcsta the different contour of which may be readily appreciated.
Salasiella subcylindrica n. sp.
Fig.
1.
Shell distinctly cylindric the rather long spire tapering to an obtuse apex corneouswhite smooth except for a few impressed lines following the direction of growthlines.
Whorls 4f  slightly convex the last flattened peripherally.
Suture margined by transparence.
Aperture of the usual shape  outer lip strongly arched f orward in the middle retracted above and below.
Columella as in other species of the genus.
Length 5.6 diam.
1.8 length of aperture 3.15 mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77169 A. N. S. P. collected by S. N. Rhoads 1899.
This species is larger and more cylindric than S. modcsta and the columella is less concave.
Its contour is quite unlike that of S. perpusilla which also occurred at Diente.
Strebelia berendti Pfr..
Texolo State of Vera Cruz Rhoads 1899.
Streptostyla novoleonis Pilsbry.
PI.
XL VIII figs.
3 3a.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 397.
Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77153 A. N. S. P. It is rather abundant and the locality is far to the north of any former record for the genus streptostyla edwardsiana C. and F. Texolo Prov.
Vera Cruz Rhoads 1899.
Mr. Ancey has recently added two more sjDecies of this genus S. sumichrasti and S.
clavatula.
 Pseudosubulina berendti Pfr..
Jalapa V. C in forest.
Pseudosubulina berendti occidentalis Pils.
PI.
L fig.
1.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1S99 p. 398.
Uruapam Michoacan.
Types No.
77161 A. N. S. P. Pseudosubulina texoloensis Pils.
PI.
L fig.
2.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 398.
Texolo V. C. Types No.
77104 A. N. S. P. The collection made  Nautilus XVII p. 56. by Mr. Rhoads contained several other species of Pseudosubulina not yet identified.
STENOGYRID.
Opeas octonoides C B.
Ad.
Antigua V. C. Opeas micra Orb.
Antigua V. C. Opeas rhoadsae Pils.
PI.
L fig.
4.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1S99 p. 399.
Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77103 A. N. S. P. The specimen figured measures 3.1 x .7 mm.
Opeas odiosum Pils.
PL L fig.
3.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1S99 p. 399.
Patzcuaro Michoacan.
Types No.
77100 A. N. S. P. Opeas patzcuarense Pils.
PI.
L fig.
5.
Patzcuaro Michoacan.
Types No.
77151 A. N. S. P. Tlie specimen figured measures length 3.35 diam.
.9 mm.
Ir.
Rhoads also collected about a dozen species of minute Stenogyroid snails not yet identified several of them found in some abundance.
Spiraxis uruapamensis Pils.
PI.
L fig.
9 and the fig.
between 9 and 10.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 398.
Uruapam Michoacan.
Types No.
77160 A. N. S. P. Spiraxis 
borealis n. sp.
PI.
L figs.
6 6a.
Shell wholly imperforate very slender and long regularly tapering to the obtuse summit thin whitishcorneous.
Sculptured with close vertical threadlike riblets about half as wide as the intervals or a little more crowded.
Whorls 12 convex separated by deep sutui'es.
Aperture small ovate the lip thin and simple columella thin concave passing without angle or notch into the basal margin.
Length 10 diam.
2 length of aperture 2 mm.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77166 A. N. S. P. This species agrees fairly well with the description of S. acus Shuttl. from Cordova V. C except in the smaller size.
That species has not been figured.
In sculpture S. borealis is not unlike S. intermedins Strebel.
The generic position is uncei'tain.
Six specimens taken.
Leptinaria mexicana Pfr..
Texolo V. C. Leptinaria tamaulipensis n. sp.
PI.
L fig.
s. Shell perforate ovateconic pale yellowishcorneous.
Surface finely and closely irregularly and weakly striate glossy.
Spire straightly conic the apex quite obtuse.
Whorls 5 convex.
Aperture less than half the total length.
Columella vertical refiexed with a rather small fold in the middle.
No parietal lamella.
Length 6.8 diam.
3.7 mm.
Tamaulipas in a canon alout 4 miles west of Victoria elevation about 3000 feet.
Types No.
85909 A. N. S. P. collected by Mr. R. N. Rhoads January 21 1903.
This species is related to L. mexicana and L. martensi but differs from both in wanting spaced riblets.
No Leptinaria has hitherto been reported from north of Misantla V. C so that the range of the genus northward is greatly extended b the discovery of this species.
Five specimens were found.
SUCCINEID.
Succinea tlalpamensis Pilsbry.
PI.
XLVIII.
figs.
4 4a.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1899 p. 401.
Near Tlalpam State of Mexico.
Types No.
77207 A. N. S. P. The figures show the extremes of variation in the t3qe lot.
Succinea tlalpamensis cuitseana Pils.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 401.
Lake Cuitseo near Huingo Michoacan.
Types No.
77208 A. N. S. P. Succinea virgata Marts.
Texolo State of Vera Cruz.
Many of the shells want the white rays entirely and in some others they appear only on the spire.
AURICULID.
Carychium exiguum mexicanum Pils.
Texolo State of 'era Cruz and Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon.
LIMNIDiE.
Limnsea attenuata Say.
Tlalpam near the City of Mexico.
Limnaea columella Say.
Lake near Uruapam State of lichoacan.
Pale 3'ellowishcorneous specimens about the size of var.
cJumipioni Maris. but somewhat shorter and of lighter color.
The spiral sculpture is well developed and tj'pical.
The species has not before been reported from this part of Mexico.
Limnsea desidiosa Say.
Saltillo State of Coahuila.
The specimens are small reaching a length of only 7.3 mm. but they seem to me to be typical in all other characters.
The species is new to Mexico.
Limnsea palmeri Dall.
Biologia Cent.
Amer. Moll. p. 377.
This species has been removed from the Limnceidce by Dall Avho refers it to the marine genus Reduzia.
Planorbis tenuis Dkr.
Tlalpam State of Mexico and Acamlaro State of Guanajuata.
Planorbis tenuis exaggeratus Marts.
Lake Patzcuaro Michoacan.
A large series collected by Ir.
Rhoads shows the characters of this subspecies to be remarkably constant.
No P. tenuis were found in the lake.
Planorbis liebmanni Dkr.
Topo Chico near Monterey Nuevo Leon.
ANCYLID.
Ancylus exoentricus Morelet.
Lake La Prassa near Uruapam State of Iichoacan.
Ancylus papillaris Martens.
Uruapam Michoacan Tlalpam.
State of Mexico Monterey Nuevo Leon.
This gies this wellcharacterized species a wide distribution.
It has heretofore been known onlfrom Rio Ameca State of Jalisco.
An Ancylus similar to haldcmani was taken at Ionterey one specimen.
PHYSID.
Physa osoulans Hald.
Tlalpam State of Mexico and in the State of Michoacan at Morelia Lake La Prassa near Iruapam Lake Cuitseo near Huingo also from a hot spring near the same place and a ditch near Lake Patzcuaro.
Acambaro State of Guanajuata.
Physa osoulans rhyssa Pils.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1S99 p. 401.
This form is much smaller than P. o. plicata C. and F. Saltillo Coahuila and Topo Chico near Monterey N. L. Physa osculans patzcuarensis Pils.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat Sd.
Pliila. 1891 p. 323 PL XV fig.
5.
Physa me.xirana var.
coniformls Strebel Tieitrag I p. 52 1S73 Xot Physa coniformis Tryon 1866.
Lake Patzciiaro Rhoads 1S99.
Numerous specimens were taken like the types collected by Hcilprin.
At the time I described the latter I Avas not aware of the previous description of the same form by Strebel.
He used a preoccupied name which laid in amlush in a dense thicket of text.
Physa berendti Dkr.
Texolo and near Jalapa State of Vera Cruz.
Physa lacustris Clessin.
At Texolo State of Vera Cruz in a small stagnant pond and under a cascade a very short spired Physa occurred which seems identical with Clessin's species.
The specimens from the small pond reach a length of 10 mm. and are much eroded having lost most of the cuticle.
Those from under the cascade are 6 to 1h mm.
long and more globose.
It seems to be a wellmarked species.
Clessin gives ''Centralamcrika See Coatcpeque as the locality.
There is a Coatepeque in western Guatemala but Dr. von Iartens says E. Mexico Lake Coatepec probably the correct locality.
VALVATID..
Valvata humeralis Say.
PI.
LIT figs.
9 12 12a.
T'.
humeralis Say X. H.
Diss. II 244 Martens Biologia Cent.
Amer. Moll. p. 426.
V. humeralis Say humerosa Say Strebel Beitrag I p. 33 PI.
4 fig.
42 not good.
V. strebeli Crosse and Fischer Miss.
Scient.
au Mex. Moll. II p. 304 based upon preceding reference .
Say's tjpe specimen is here drawn figs.
12 12fl.
It agrees with specimens before me from the city of Mexico Heilprin expedition and from Lake Xochimilco fig.
9 in the valley of Mexico E. D. Cope 1SS5.
The figures given by Strebel show a raised acute apex but as he expressly states that the apex is obtuse I suppose these figures to be incorrectly drawn.
It may be added that Strebel's description agrees fully with some specimens of V. humeralis.
This being the case V. strebeli C. and F. based solely upon Strebel's account will become a pure synonym of V. humeralis.
Prof. v. Martens has already treated it as a variety of that species.
It may further be noted that jMessrs.
Crosse and Fischer had seen neither V. humeralis nor the form they ' Lake Xochimilco is tlie west end of Iake Clialco from wliicli it has been artificially separated.
call V. strebeli but base their conclusions upon the published descriptions only.
V. humeralis varies somewhat in the amount of flattening lelow the suture but that character is always noticeable and the early whorls often appear angular in the middle on account of it.
The striation is rather irregularly developed but always low never sharp as in V. sincera.
Some specimens show a few very low subobsolete spiral cords or threads near the periphery of the last whorl but these are exceptional.
The base is indistinctly subangular around the umbilicus.
Measurements are as follows Alt.
4.2 diam.
5.2 mm. whorls 3f L. Xochimilco.
Alt.
4 diam.
5 mm. whorls 3 to 3f Strebel.
Alt.
3.2 diam.
4.7 mm. whorls 3 L. Xochimilco.
Alt.
3 diam.
4 mm. whorls 3 Say's type.
I have treated this species at some length because with the exception of Strebel none of the waiters upon this fauna have seen specimens of Valvata from Mexico.
Valvata humeralis pilsbryi Martens.
PI.
LII figs.
5 5a.
Valvata humcTalis specimens from Lake Patzcuaro Pilsbrv Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1891 p. 326.
Valvata humeralis var.
pilsbryi Martens Biologia p. 427 September 1899 based upon the preceding reference.
Valvata humeralis var.
patzcuarensis Pilsbry Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 392 October 5 1899.
This form is smoother and more elevated than V. humeralis but still has an obtuse summit the subsutural flattening of that species while noticeable on the spire of this is minimized on the last whorl and finally the umbilicus is narrower in specimens of the same diameter.
Alt.
5.1 diam.
5 mm. whorls slightly over 4.
Alt.
4.3 diam.
5 mm. whorls 3f .
Alt.
4 diam.
4 m.m. whorls 3.
Lake Patzcuaro Michoacan.
Several hundred specimens were taken by Mr. Rhoads in 1899.
All were collected dead but in good condition covered with a light brown cuticle.
A few of the freshest are of a rather bright green color.
Types of this variety are No.
61444 A. N. S. P. collected by Heilprin and Baker in 1890.
The varietal name patzcuarensis was proposed by me before Prof von Martens' work on the same form reached America but it is apparently of later date if the signature lines of the Biologia indicate the actual dates of publication.
AMNICOLID.
Pyrgulopsis patzcuarensis Pilsbry.
PL LII figs.
G 7 8.
The Nautilus V p. 9 May 1S91  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1891 p. 330 PI.
15 fig.
8.
Mission Scient.
au Mex. Moll. II p. 277.
Lake Patzcuaro Michoacan the type locality.
This was originally described from mutilated examples.
A series of over 60 specimens taken by Mr. Rhoads in 1899 enables me to complete the description and to illustrate perfect shells.
All are empty shells and I am therefore unable to examine the dentition to ascertain whether the species is a true Pyrgulopsis or a Potamopyrgus.
All of the shells agree in having the first two whorls smooth and convex.
Then a strong median keel sets in continuing 2 or more whorls and there is also a minor keel which may be visible just above the suture or concealed by the next whorl.
Both keels usually become weaker mere angles on the last whorl or more or they may completely disappear leaving the whorl rounded.
The keel is always even and smooth.
There are nearly 7 wdiorls in fullgrown shells.
The aperture is regularly ovate the outer lip is sinuous being retracted above.
The largest shell measures length 7.7 diam.
3.2 mm.
I have seen some thousands of specimens of Potamopyrgus from Texas Mexico and Central America Venezuela and the West Indies embracing a great variety of forms  but I have not seen this particular type of shell except from Lake Patzcuaro.
It seems to me to be a reasonably distinct species.
The form called Amnicola coronata var.
unicarinata by von Martens' is not an uncommon variation in the spinose Potamopyrgus and like the smooth ecarinate phase it is not a racial or subspecific modification nor is it sexual for I have foiuid the unborn young in smooth carinate and spinose shells when opening them for the radulse.
American species of Potamopyrgus are dimori3hic or trimorphic like some butterflies owls etc.
The gentis Potamopyrgus is amply distinguished from Amnicola by its viviparous reproduction Amnicola being oviparous.
I fail to see the advantage of lumping them as some recent authors have done.
Chondropoma martensianum Pilsbry.
PI.
LII figs.
4 4a.
Nautilus XIII p. 140 April 1900.
fountains of Poana Tabasco Jose N. Rovirosa.
Illustrations are now given of the type of this species which has not before been figured.
 Biologia p. 433 September 1899.
Amnicola panamensis Tryon.
PI.
LII fig.
11.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1863 p. 146.
The type of this species is a single specimen from Panama collected by Capt.
Field U. S. N. It is of the whitishcorneous color of A. cincinnatiensis Anth. has 4 whorls which are very convex below the sutures and the axis is perforate.
It is extremely similar to A. cincinnatiensis but differs in being only about half the size of wellgrown examples of that species.
Length 3.4 diam.
2.7 longest axis of aperture 1.8 mm. An entirely different species collected by Prof. Ralph Tate in Nicaragua was subsequently referred to A. panamensis and this erroneous extension of the range of the species has naturally been repeated in the Biologia.
Amnicola tryoni n. sp.
PI.
LII fig.
10.
Amnicola panamensis Tryon Tate American Journal of Conchology V p. 153.
Shell openly perforate ovateconic thin corneous and somewhat translucent the surface smooth scarcely showing growth striae.
Spire conic the apex slightly obtuse.
Whorls 4h those of the spire very convex below the suture the last whorl not swollen there.
The aperture is of the usual ovate contour svibangular above peristome adnate to the preceding whorl for a short distance above.
Length 2.3 diam.
1.6 longest axis of aperture 1.2 nmi.
Nicaragua at the roots of plants in a swampy pool near Javali in the Chontales district at an elevation of 1750 feet.
Types No.
58066 A. N. S. P. collected by Ralph Tate.
The specimens are encrusted with a ferruginous deposit so thick as to materially alter the shape of the shell.
The one figured has been cleaned.
It seems to be closely related to A. guatemalensis Crosse and Fischer from Lake Amatitlan but A. tryoni is a smaller species with more convex whorls smoother surface and a more prominent spire.
1 .
guatemalensis is not known to me by specimens.
A. stolli JMartens'' seems also to belong to the same group of species but it is more conic than the others mentioned above the last whorl being dilated peripherally according to Prof von Martens' figures.
HELICINID.
Helicina turbinata Wiegm.
Antigua.
State of Vera Cruz. '
I have every reason to believe this specimen marked in Tryon's own hand to be the original type although it does not agree with the original measurements.
 Miss.
Scient.
Mex. Moll. II p. 264. '
Biologia Centr.
Amer. Moll. p. 645.
Helicina succincta Martens.
Texolo V. C. Helicina orbiculata tropica Jan. Monterey State of Nuevo Leon.
Similar to Texan examples.
Helicina fragilis Morel.
Antigua State of Vera Cruz.
Helicina lirata Pfr.
Antigua V. C. Helicina sowerbyana Pfr.
PI.
LIV figs.
7 8.
Caiion 4 miles west of Victoria Tamaulipas.
Twelve specimens of this fine species measuring 18 to 21 mm.
diam. were taken the first since the original lot many years ago.
I am much inclined to doubt the locality Guatemala of the Cumingian type specimen as the snails of that country are mainly of different species from those of Tamaulipas and no specimens of this large and conspicuous species have been found in the intermediate territory part of which is the most fully explored portion of Mexico.
H. sowerbyana probably does not range south as far as the State of Vera Cruz.
The rather conspicuous spiral sculpture does not show in the photographic figures.
Helicina zephyrina Duel.
Texolo at the falls State of Vera Cruz.
Helicina zephyrina var.
dientensis n. v. Similar to zephyrina except that the bodywhorl is more depressed and the base less convex.
Alt.
14.5 diam.
11 mm.
Alt.
12 diam.
9.5 mm.
Alt.
14.3 diam.
11.4 mm.
Diente near Monterey N. L. Types No.
77238 A. N. S. P. Trochatella simpsoni Ancey.
PL XLIX fig.
4.
Annales de Malacologie II p. 253.
One of the original specimens from the series of Utilla shells presented by Mr. C. T. Simpson is figured.
This is the only Trochatella known from the mainland of Mexico or Central America or islands adjacent thereto.
It was collected on Utilla Island off the north coast of Honduras by Mr. Simpson.
The shell figured measures 2.6 mm.
diam.
and alt.
Schasicheila fragilis Pilsbry.
PI.
LI figs.
7 7a.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 391.
Diente near Monterey State of Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77237 A. N. S. P. Since the publication of my description I have obtained specimens of S. minuscula Pfr.
 one of which is figured for comparison PI.
LI fig.
3.
S. fragilis is much more depressed than minuscula with more distinct spiral lines when the hairs arc rubled off.
The two species are quite distinct.
Schasicheila vanattai Pils.
PI.
LI figs.
5 5a.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1899 p. 391.
Same locality as the preceding with which it occurred.
Readily distinguished by the strong peripheral angle.
The sinus is slightly deeper than in S. fragilis.
Schasicheila vanattai tricostata subsp.
nov. PI.
LI fig.
4.
Last whorl with three large obtuse rounded carinae or spiral ribs the surface concave between them and below the lower one  cuticular spirals weakly developed.
Pale yellowishcorneous.
Whorls 3.
Alt.
3.7 diam.
4.5 mm.
Caiion 4 miles west of Victoria Tamauhpas.
Type No.
85908 A. N. S. P. One adult and one immature specimen collected.
In the absence of a series sufficient to show whether the remarkable features above described are constant I prefer to rank this as a variety of S. vanattai.
No other known Schasicheila has spiral ridges and sulci of this kind.
Schasicheila hidalgoana Dall.
PI.
LI figs.
8 8a.
Schazicheila hidalgoana Dall. Nautilus XI p. 62.
Shell depressed conoidal above convex beneath strongly angular at the periphery.
Yellowishcorneous usually pink toward the apex under a thin brown cuticle which is very densely and minutely roughened by close cuticular spiral threads conspicuously longer ones fringing the periphery.
These cuticular processes hold sufficient dirt to make the whole surface of fresh shells blackish.
Under the cuticle the surface is glossy striatulate obliquely and densely striate spirally.
Whorls 4V slightly convex the intermediate ones with an impression above the suture.
Last whorl wide strongly angular peripherally a little impressed in the middle of the base.
Aperture of the usual halfrotund shape the outer lip narrowly expanded with a deep triangular excision or notch above.
Umbilical pad small and somewhat sunken.
Operculum with processes rojecting Ijcyond the lip at both base and upper sinus bluish gray indistinctly roughened externally.
Alt.
9 diam.
14 mm.
Alt.
8.7 diam.
12.3 mm.
Canon 4 miles west of Victoria State of Tamaulipas.
No.
85919 A. N. S. P. collected bv S. N. Rhoads.
1903.
A large series was collected.
It resembles S. vanattai in shape liit is about double the linear dimensions of that species and has a proportionally larger lip notch or sinus.
In S. nicoleti the periphery is less strongly angular the spiral lirse more widely spaced and the operculum sharply granulose externalh The specimens have been compared by Prof. W. H. Dall with the unique type of his S.
hidalgoana from Encarnacion Hidalgo and pronoimced to be identical.
Since that species was described from a dead bleached specimen I have given a new description of a fresh shell and figures of a specimen from near 'ictoria.
SPHRIID.
Crosse and Fischer have shown that the species of Sphariiun known from lexico fall into three subgenera Sphcerium s.
str. Muscidium Link Calyculina Cless.
 and Eiipera Bgt.
The third group has been raised by von Martens to generic rank.
No species of Eupera was taken by Ir.
Rhoads but the other groups mentioned are represented in his collection by numerous forms the study of which necessitates some revision of the group.
The following Mexican and Central American species have been admitted in the Biologia Centrali Americana S. triangvlare Say.
S. suhtransversum Pme.
S. martensi Pils.
S. luridum Marts.
S. costaricanum Marts.
The lastmentioned species is not known to me by sjecimens.
From the description and figures it seems to be very different from the others and a good deal like a Pisidium.
The other Mexican species are very well characterized and readily distinguishable.
They may be tabulated as follows a.
 Shell very thin and fragile delicately striate  beaks usually showing a distinctly defined prodissoconch.
b.
 Shell oblong the alt.
about threefourths the length diam.
half the length or less S. suhtransversum.
h' .
 Shell subrotund the alt.
exceeding threefourths the length diam.
more than half the length S.
novoleonis.
a' .
 Shell varying from thin to moderately strong striate or costulate without distinct prodissoconch.
h.  Beaks regularly costulafe.
Alt.
more than threefourths the length  diam.
decidedly over half the length  hingeline more arcuate than the basal margin solid with stout lateral teeth and rather coarse sculpture .
.
.
S. triangularc.
6'. Beaks nearly smooth alt.
about threequarters and diam.
about onehalf the length of the shell  basal and hinge margins about equally arcuate finely striate c Subequilateral the two ends almost equally rounded olivaceousgray with chestnut beaks and usually yellow basal margin S. jalayensis.
c'Inequilateral the posterior end noticeably wider yellow becoming fleshygray at the beaks thinner S. martensi.
Sphaerium triangulare Say.
PI.
LIII figs.
4 4a.
Figures are here given of one of the two type specimens of this species PI.
LIII figs.
4 4a.
It measures length 13 alt.
10.3 mm. agreeing with Say's measurements.
 The sculpture of concentric ridges or coarse striiB is strong and a little irregular.
The beaks are strongly regularly sculptured as in S. striatinum.
This is a very characteristic feature of the species.
The beaks arc nearly median the dorsal margin of the valve is much more arcuate than the ventral and the anterior end tapers somewhat the posterior being broadly rounded.
The anterior and posterior lateral teeth are of about equal length single in the left double in the right valve.
The anterior pair is decidedly heavier than the posterior the latter being finely crenulated.
The types are both dead and have lost the cuticle but are otherwise well preserved.
They are probably from one of the lakes near the City of Mexico as there is a tray of specimens in the collection exactly like them and in the same condition from Lake Texcoco.
In Lake Patzcuaro Michoacan the shells are smaller but somewhat thicker PI.
LIII figs.
3 3a PI.
LIV fig.
2.
The cuticle is very glossy bright greenishyellow with some gray streaks or graybrown  with or without a yellow zone below.
Sculpture as already described but in these fresh shells some indistinct radii are visible.
The beaks are large and full.
The ligament though largely immersed is conspicuous externally.
There is a narrow slightly sunken escutcheon and a wide short lunule bounded by faintly impressed lines.
The teeth PI.
LII fig.
3 right valve of this form are a trifle heavier than in typical S. triangulare but otherwise similar.
On the right valve the lower laterals seem to be borne on ridges running out from under the hingeplate.
They are very short high and triangular.
Length 11.5 alt.
9 diam 7 mm.
1 Prime expressed doubt about the specific identity of the two specimens given to the Academy by Mrs. Say after Say's death solely because the shell is not especially triangular but since these specimens agree completely with the original description and measurements and were labeled by Say there seems to be no good reason for doubting their authenticity.
.50 Specimens from Acambaro State of Guanajuato are similar two measuring length 12 alt.
9 diam.
7 mm. and 10.2 8 6 mm.
The species described from Ameca Jalisco under the name S'.
luridum jIarts.
seems to be very near S. triangulare if not actually identical therewith.
Sphaerium martensi Pilsbry.
PI.
LIII figs.
2 2a  PI.
LIV fig.
4.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 401 1899.
Biologia p. 552.
When cleaned of the ferrous deposit which coats this shell it is light yellow becoming pinkishgray in the neighborhood of the beaks.
The sculpture is a very fine sharp striation over the lower twothirds the lcaks being nearly smooth with minute glossy tips sometimes slightly marked off by a barely perceptible depression.
The differentiation of the prodissoconch seems hardly tangible enough to warrant a reference of the species to the subgenus JuscuUum and moreover the shell while thin is not fragile as in MuscuUimi.
The cardinals are double in the right valve PI.
LII fig.
2 as well as the laterals.
The latter are rather small and low and not crenulate.
In the left valve the lateral teeth are single.
The shell is less solid than S. triangulare but decidedly stronger than S. suhtransversum.
It does not seem very closely related to any other species.
Length 15.6 alt.
11 diam.
7.7 mm.
Known only from the type locality Tzintzimtzan.
Lake Patzcuaro State of Michoacan.
Sphaerium jalapensis n. sp.
PI.
LIII figs.
1 la PI.
LIV fig.
3.
Shell oval somewhat compressed the diameter about half the length ends almost equally rounded but the anterior is a little more narrowly so upper and basal margins equally arcuate beaks projecting but slightly above the dorsal margin glossy finely irregularly striate and very minutely rugose or subgranulate.
There are also obscure radii visible in a suitable light.
Olivaceousgray with a yellow border and fully adult shells are bright chestnutcolored toward the eroded apices.
Escutcheon narrow lanceolate and perceptibly flattened or excavated lunule indistinct.
Interior bluishwhite.
Right valve PL LII fig.
la with a small oblique bifid anterior and minute posterior cardinal tooth anterior laterals double strong elevated and triangular posterior laterals double more slender and crenulate.
Left valve PI.
LII fig.
1 with a bifid posterior and small simple anterior cardinal laterals single the anterior short high and triangular posterior lateral single more compressed. 
Biologia Cenfr.
Amer. Moll. p. 552.
Length 14.5 alt.
11 diam.
7.2 mm.
liCngth 13.2 alt.
10 diam.
6.4 mm.
Pond at Jalapa State of Vera Cruz.
Types No.
77191 A. N. S. P. collected b S. N. Rhoads 1899.
This species is most nearly related to S. sulcatum I.am.
 ut it differs in the following respects.
S. jalapensis is more compressed and greater in altitude  it is more finely sculptured and more glossy.
The lateral teeth are less elevated.
The outline of S. jalapensis is less angular than that of S. rhomboideufn.
S. luridiwi Martens from the State of Jalisco is much smaller about the size of a halfgrown specimen of this species.
The teeth are figured as very stout but from the description they would seem to be not very unlike those of S. jalapensis.
S. fabale is at once distinguished from all these species by its broad peculiarly compressed shape.
In the specimen figured PI.
LII figs.
1 la the anterior lateral teeth are reversed.
In all others examined they are as described above.
Sphaerium Musculium subtransversum Prime.
PI.
LIII figs.
6 6a 66 I'l.
LIV fig.
5.
Prime Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1860 p. 322 Monogr.
Am.
Corbiculidse p. 62 Sowerby in Conch.
Icon. XX f. 38.
Not S. subtransversum Crosse and Fischer Moll.
Mex. II 652.
Tlalpam State of Mexico Morelia Michoacan Rhoads.
This is an elongate fragile species with distinctly  calyculate  beaks  gray with a yellow zone below.
The surface is shining and very finely delicately striate.
The upper and lower margins are about equally arcuate and the anterior end is more tapering than the wider posterior end.
The right valve has two diverging cardinal teeth and double laterals fig.
6a  the left valve has a single cardinal and single laterals.
The large specimen figured from Tlalpam measures length 15 alt.
10.8 diam.
7.5 mm. but most of the lot are smaller length about 11 mm.
An average shell from Morelia measures length 9.3 alt.
7 diam.
4.2 mm.
In my opinion the figures given by Crosse and Fischer do not represent this species.
The dimensions given by Prime are length .30 alt.
.20 diam.
.10 inch.
These must have been taken from a ciuite young shell but certainly it was lower and more compressed than Crosse and Fischer's subtransversum which ' measured  length 10.5 alt.
8.5 diam.
6 mm.
The figure given by Sowerby while too small to show any details yet agrees with Prime's description in contour.
Sphaerium Musculium novoleonis n. sp.
PI.
LIII figs.
5 5a 56 PI.
LIV fig.
6.
Shell fragile short and rather globose the diameter slightly more than half the length thin anterior end rounded posterior end wider obliquely subtruncate upper and lower margins subcqually arcuate beaks full and prominent with rather indistinct caps lunule and escutcheon are not differentiated.
Surface glossy finely and rather obsoletely striate.
Yellowishgray.
Interior bluishwhite.
Right valve PI.
LIII fig.
5 with two small diverging cardinal teeth and double anterior and posterior laterals the former stouter.
Left valve with the cardinal tooth small the laterals single.
liCngth 11 alt.
9 diam.
6 mm.
Monterey State of Nuevo Leon.
Types No.
77190 A. N. S. P. collected by S. N. Rhoads 1899.
This species is similar to S. partumcium in general characters.
The beaks are not distinctly capped as in that species and the anterior lateral teeth are shorter and much closer to the cardinal.
In my opinion the shells figured by Crosse and Fischer as S. suhtransversum belong to this species.
Pisidium abditum Hald.
Lake Prassa near Uruapam and Tlalpam State of Mexico Texolo State of Vera Cruz Rhoads  also Orizaba V. C. Heilprin expedition .
These localities go far to connect the Central American range given by v. Martens with the range of the species in the United States.
UNIONID.
TJnio plexus Conrad.
'era Cruz State of Vera Cruz.
Lampsilis umbrosus Lea.
Vera Cruz V. C. Lampsilis rovirosai Pils.
PI.
LIV figs l la.
Nautilus XIII p. 140 April 1900.
Laguna de Atasta near San Juan Bautista State of Tabasco collected by Sr. Ing.
D. Jose N. Rovirosa a naturalist of Tabasco especially interested in botany whose death December 23 1901 I regret to record.
The figures are natural size from photographs of the type.
No.
58916 A. N. S. P. Reference to Plates XLVIILIV.
Plates XLVII to LIII loere drawn with camera lucida by Miss Helen Winchester plate LIV was repro' duced from photographs.
Plate XLVII Figs.
1 la  Glandina viichoacanensis Pils.
Fig.
h.
 Newborn young of the same.
Figs.
2 2a 26.
 Glandina huingensis Pils.
Figs.
3 3a 36.
 Glandina rhoadsi Pils.
Figs.
4 4a 46.
 Glandina victor iana Pils.
Figs.
5 oa.
 Glandina dalli Pils.
Fig.
6.
 Glandina oblonga tamaulipensis Pils. young shell.
Figs.
6a 66.
 Glandina oblonga tamaulipensis Pils.
Plate XLVIII Figs.
1 la lb.
 Glandina delicata Pils.
Fig.
2.
 Glandina delicata alticola Pils.
Figs.
3 3a.
 Streptostyla novoleonis Pils.
Figs.
4 4a.
 Succinea tlalpamensis Pils.
Figs.
5 5a 5b.
 Omphalina montereyensis victoriana Pils.
Figs.
6 6a 66.
 Omphalina montereyensis Pils.
Figs.
7 7a lb.
 Omphalina martensiana Pils.
Plate XLIX Figs.
1 la lb.
 Pyramidula victoriana Pils.
Figs.
2 2a.
 Thysanophora proxima Pils.
Figs.
3 3a 36.
 Thysanophora tatei Pils.
Fig.
4.
 TrochateUa simpsoni Anc.
Topotype.
Figs.
5 5a 56.
 Guppya micra Pils.
Figs.
6 6a.
 Thysanophora fischeri Pils.
Plate L Fig.
1.
 Pseudosubulina occidentalis Pils.
Fig.
2.
 Pseudosubulina texoloensis Pils.
Fig.
3.
 Opeas odiosum Pils.
Fig.
4.
 Opeas rhoadsce Pils.
Fig.
5.
 Opeas patzcuarense Pils.
Figs.
6 6a.
 Spiraxis
borealis Pils.
Figs.
7 7a.
 Bifidaria prototypus Pils.
Fig.
8.
 Leptinaria tamaulipensis Pils.
Figs.
9 9a.
 Spiraxis uruapamensis Pils.
Figs.
10 10a.
 Epirobia mirabilis Pils.
Plate LI Figs.
1 la 16.
 Polygyra suprazonata Pils.
Figs.
2 2a 26.
 Polygyra rhoadsi Pils.
Fig.
3.
 Schasicheila minuscula Pfr.
Fig.
4.
 Schasicheila vanattai tricostata Pils.
Figs.
5 5a.
 Schasicheila vanattai Pils.
Figs.
6 6a.
 Praticolella strebeliaiia Pils.
Figs.
7 7a.
 Schasicheila fragilis PUs.
Figs.
8 8a.
 Schasicheila hidalgoana Dall.
Plate LII Fig.
1.
 Sphoerium jalapense PQs. left valve la right valve.
Anterior teeth are reversed in this specimen.
Fig.
2.
 Sphcerixim martensi Pils.
Right valve.
Fig.
3.
 Sphcenum triangulare Say.
Right valve.
Lake Patzcuaro.
Figs.
4 4a.
 Chondropoma martensianum Pils.
Figs.
5 5a.
 Valvata humeralis pilsbryi Marts.
Figs.
6 7 8.
 Pyrgtdopsis patzcuarensis Pils.
Fig.
9.
 Valvata humeralis.
Lake Xochimilco.
Fig.
10.
 Amnicola tryoni Pils.
Fig.
11.
 Amnicola panamensis Tryon.
Type specimen.
Fig.
12 12a.
 Valvata humeralis Say.
Type specimen.
Plate LIII Figs.
1 la.
 Sphcerium jalapense Pils.
Figs.
2 2a.
 Sphcerium martensi Pils.
Figs.
3 3a.
 Sphcerium triangulare Say.
Lake Patzcuaro.
Figs.
4 4a.
 Sphcerium triangulare Say.
Type specimen.
Figs.
5 5a 56.
 Sphcerium novoleonis Pils.
Figs.
6 6a 66.
 Sphoerium subtransversum Prime.
Plate LIV.
 Figs.
1 la.
 Lampsilis rovirosai Pils.
Fig.
2.
 Sphcerium triangulare Say.
Lake Patzcuaro.
Fig.
3.
 Sphcerium jalapensis Pils.
Fig.
4.
 Sphoerium martensi Pils.
Fig.
5.
 Sphcerium subtransversum Pme.
Fig.
6.
 Sphoerium novoleonis Pils.
Figs.
7 8.
 Helicina sowerbyana Pfr.
A NEW HAWAIIAN LIMNA.
BY HENRY A. PJLSBRY.
Limnaea hawaiensis n. sp.
The shell is dextral very narrowly rimate oliliqviely ovate thin and light brown suiface very closely finely and distinctly striate longitudinally.
The spire is extremely short and obtuse there being scarcely three whorls in all searated by a deeply impressed suture.
The last whorl is convex below the suture then slopes outward and is full and sacklike at the periphery and base.
The broad ovate aperture is oblique and nearly as long as the shell.
The columellar lip is reflexecl and indistinctly folded alcove.
Length 6.5 diam.
5.3 length of aperture 5.5 mm.
Hawaii in small streams in the moimtains on the Hilo side.
Types No.
85380 A. N. S. P. collected by R. C. McGregor in 1900.
The shell of this species approaches Erinna newconihi H. and A. Ad. described from Hanalei river Kauai in contour but it is evidently more closely related to Limncca affinis Souleyet.That species was described from streams on the island of Oahu and is said to be toujours senestre while every one of the 30 or 40 examples of L. hawaiensis taken is dextral.
Although Pease claims that some of the Hawaiian species are indifferently sinistral or dextral it seems to me that the alleged constant sinistral coiling of the Oahu form and the equally invariable dextral convolution of this form from Hawaii indicate that the two islands are peopled by separate species of these shortspired Limnaeas.
Pease includes L. affinis Soul and L.  sandwichensis Phil.
sandwicensis Phil.
under L. oahuensis Soul as synonyms. It is evident that he had never seen Souleyet's L. affinis or even the figures of it for it is as remote as possible from oahuensis.
L. scmdicicensis Phil is a much more lengthened species than L. hawaiensis.
None of the species described by Pease and by CloukP are closely related to L. affinis and L. hawaiensis.
 Genera of Recent Mollusca II p. 644.
 Voy.
Bonite Zool. II p. 528 PL 29 figs.
4244.
 American Journal of Conchology VI p. 5.
 Pease t. c pp.
5 6.
 U. S. Exploring Expedition Mollusca Atlas figs.
140 112.
The radula has about 15.8.1.8.15 teeth.
The central tooth in each row is small and unicnspid.
The laterals are bicuspid the inner ones have the inner cusp wide and obtuse or slightly emarginate evidently composed of entocone  mesocone.
The two cusps become subequal on the outer lateral teeth.
The inner marginal teeth have three cusps the outer ones four by splitting of the entocone.
The jaw is arcuate with small lateral appendages as usual in Limncea.
It is smooth.
The teeth of this snail differ from those of Holarctic species of Limncca in the structure of the laterals but the radula is not that of the Planorhina The dentition is known in so few Limnseid species outside of Europe and the United States that no useful comparisons of this peculiar Hawaiian type can be made.
The animals as contracted in formalin resemble LimncEa externally having short wide tentacles and a short foot.
December 15.
The President.
Samuel G. Dixox M.D. in the Chair.
Thirtyfour persons present.
The death of Samuel B. Howell M.D. December 12 1903 was annoimced.
He was elected a member in 1855 and held the office of Recording Secretary from February 1867 to December 1874.
The following was accepted for publication SOME PELAGIC POLYCHTA NEW TO THE WOODS HOLE FAUNA.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
The pelagic annelid fauna of southern Xew England has received but little attention and with the exception of larval forms some Sillidffi and the epitokous phases of some nereids etc. practically nothing relating to it has been recorded.
With the exception of Tomopteris all of the genera discussed in the following pages are new to the region.
AmpMnome pallasii Quatrefages.
From several logs covered with goOse barnacles Lepas anatifera which came ashore in Vineyard Sound on August 4 and 5 1903 a large number of examples of this species were taken.
Most of them measured from 2 to 2 inches in length and their size and peculiar bluishbrown color served to conceal them admirably among the stalks of the barnacles and in the crevices to which they clung.
Several were observed to squeeze between the valves of barnacles and to feed on their soft parts and the digestive tracts of others were filled with a soft pasty substance apparently composed of the tissues of those animals.
There can be no doubt that these specimens are of the species described and figured under the above name ly Ehlers in his Florida Anneliden and which is probably a regular Gulf Stream waif.
Under the name of A. rostrata Pallas IMcIntosh describes an AmpMnome taken from a floating log near the Bermudas.
From his description the Woods Hole specimens differ most obviously in having the short notopodial seta with serrated tips more slender instead of stouter than the longer notopodial setffi and in the different form of the terminal knobs of the very short spines.
The shape of the cephalic caruncle and the arrangement of the seta
also present slight divergences but in all other respects the resemblance is very close.
Prof. Mcintosh apparently considers the two species identical.
Hipponoe gaudichaudi Aud.
and M. E. On the same floating logs that yielded the Amphinome ere found many fine examples of this species which agree perfectly with the original description and with Mci ntosh's  detailed account and figures.
1 Challenger Reports XII p. 21.
2 Challenger Reports XII p. 30 Unlike the Amphinomc most of these were found on the under side of the logs away from the light associated with crabs and nudibranches and less frequently among the barnacles on the sides and upper surface.
By means of their strong neuropodial hooks they cling most tenaciously and move very sluggishly.
The larger ones were of a deep orangered color due to the great number of small spherical ova with which the body wall was distended and the expulsion of which caused the color to quickly fade.
Again unlike the Amphinome which is a common annelid in the littoral zone of the West Indies this species probably finds its normal habitat on floating objects.
The original examples of Audouin and MilneEdwards' came from Port Jackson while the Challenger took the species in the Atlantic Ocean 100 miles north of Bermuda and also in the North Pacific in one case attached to a log and in the other among masses of Lepcis fascicularis floating at the surface.
BaircP also notes that the British Museum contains specimens taken amongst barnacles on a floating log near Madeira and others from within the valves of Lcpas fascicularis from near St. Helena.
Drieschia pellucida n. sp.
This is a slender species the single representative of which has a total length including the protruded proboscis of 14 mm. a maximum breadth of body of about 1 mm. a width between the tips of the parapodia of 2.8 mm.
and between the ends of the longest setae of 6 mm.
The prostomium PI.
LY fig.
1 is of the Lcpidonotus type is  as long as broad regularly convex laterally slightly concave posteriorly and deeply cleft anteriorly to accommodate the ceratophore of the median tentacle on each side of which the frontal prolongations reach nearly to the same distal level a broad shallow median depression reaches almost to the posterior margin.
The eyes are rather small circular and black and because of the beautifully transparent tissues very conspicuous they are well separated on the sides of the head the anterior pair at the place of its greatest width and the posterior close to the posterolateral angles and about twice their own diameter from the anterior ejes.
The style of the median tentacle is lost.
As in Lepidonotus the lateral tentacles arise directly from the frontal processes without any distinct ceratophores  they are about H times the length of the head very slender and taper regularly to acute jxjints without any subterminal enlargement or terminal filament.
The palpi are widely separated at their origin beneath the sides of the prostomium ' Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
1 XX 1830 p. 1.59.
 Jour.
Linn.
Soc.
Lon. X 1S6S p. 239. rather stout at the base tapered gradually to the terminal fourth and then rapidly to a short filamentous ti  they are about twice the length of the head and the dorsal surface is marked by two longitudinal ciliated lines.
No setee occur on the buccal parapodium.
The ceratophores of the tentacular cirri reach beyond the prostomium their styles are subequal more than 4 times the length of the head slender and regularly tapering to fine tips.
Crowded between the bases of the tentacular cirri the prostomium and first elytrophore on each side is a small ovate lobe.
The protruded proboscis measures 1.5 mm.
long and .7 mm.
wide is nearly terete and bears 13 acute ovate papillae fig.
6 above and a like number below.
Just proximad of these is a circular ridge terminating on each side in a small prominence.
No peculiarities are presented by the interlocking fanglike jaws.
Besides the peristomium and pygidium there are 25 very distinct setigerous somites in the slender elongated body fig.
1 which tapers very gently both ways but quite rapidly near the pygidium.
Owing to the ver delicate musculature the body walls are thin and inflated and so transparent that even in the alcoholic specimen the entire arrangement of the parapodial muscles is distinctly visible.
Except a few at each end all of the somites are partialh biannulate through a crossfurrow just anterior of the parapodia.
No nephridial papillae are visible.
The small truncated pygidium is slightly annulated as though composed of several somites and bears a pair of minute caudal styles above the somewhat dorsally directed anus.
All of the 25 pairs of setigerous parapodia figs.
25 are uniramal consisting of neuropodia alone.
They are elongated and prominent those of the middle region very nearly equaling the width of the body.
Of a nearly cylindrical form they are somewhat enlarged at the end where they terminate in a longer more pointed presetal process and a shorter thicker postsetal process which is rendered slightly less transparent than the rest of the organ by a small aggregation of gland cells.
Toward the ends of the body the parapodia diminish in size and the last one is a mere short cylindrical tubercle.
ntral cirri occur on all parapodia.
They arise from the middle of the ventral surface and are always slender and regularly tapered  on a few of the anterior somites they reach to the tip of the parapodia but typically are only  as long as their parapodium.
The dorsal cirri PI.
LV figs.
1 2 5 are borne on all parapodia not occupied by elytra and because of their unequal development are very characteristic.
Each springs from a slight elevation of the body wall above and slightly caudad of the parapodium.
The ceratophores are subcylindrical but are somewhat constricted at the base and tapered more or less distally thinwalled and hollow with less transparent integuments than the body.
Typically they are of large size many of them much exceeding their parapodia which they may totally conceal from above.
The second on somite VI is the largest being twice as long and much thicker than the corresponding parapodiimi.
The next two are successively slightly shorter and from this point to near the posterior end large and small cirri regularly alternate short ones whose ceratophores barely equal the parapodia occurring on XII XVI and XX long ones with ceratophores much exceeding the parapodia on XIV and XVIII that of XXII though of reduced size also belonging to the latter group by reason of its long style.
On XXIV the dorsal cirri arc greatly reduced.
The styles are slender and tapering to the ends those of the larger cirri being whiplashlike and from Ih times to twice the length of the ceratophores and the smaller ones little exceeding their ceratophores and apparently more rigid.
The style on XXIV is conical that of XXV short ovate.
Whether somite XXVI bears a cirrus or an elytron is uncertain as only a small tubercle is present.
Twelve pairs of elytrophores occur on somites II IV V and then on every alternate somite to XXIII inclusive and the small tubercle on XXVI may possibly indicate a thirteenth.
The elytrophores are remarkable for their length and slenderness figs.
3 and 4.
In the alcoholic specimen they are much contracted as indicated by the Tinkles furrows and nodules upon their surfaces particularly of the last two.
When the specimen was first taken they were extended and the parapodia were raised high above the body.
The elytra are attached near the middle by a very limited area and are readily detached.
They are perfectly plain and smooth without papillae cilia or processes of any kind or any pigment.
Instead of having the usual scalehke form the elytra when the specimen was taken from the townet and still alive were inflated and spherical being mere thinwalled vesicles filled with fluid but certainly entirely closed and without any communication with the coelom.
That this condition may have resulted from rough handling in the net is possible but seems improbable from the fact that every elytron is in the same condition.
An area surrounding the scar of attachment is finely granular elsewhere the el5dron is perfectly transparent.
A large part of the back is exposed the elytra having the aspect of a series of floats attached along its sides.
Typical parapodia bear seta of two kinds the one elongated and slender the other short and stout but both are essentially of the type found in the neiu'opodium of Lepidonoius and its allies though the slender ones superficially resemble the notopodial form.
Both kinds are colorless and vitreous.
The former kind fig.
7 are arranged in a spreading fanshaped fascicle and manj of them are exceedingly long and slender their total length equaling or exceeding the entire transverse distance between the tips of the parapodia.
Aery frequently the inner ends of those of the two sides of the body touch or even overlap in the ccclom beneath the intestine and their protruded portions reach beyond the parapodia to a distance equal to or even twice its length.
For the greater part of their length they are smooth and of an even diameter but at a point on the exposed part a variable distance from the end a more or less distinct enlargement occurs beyond which the seta tapers very gradually into a fine usually slightly curved tip the convex margin of which is marked by a series of minute appressed scales.
The length of this tip varies greatly even in setae which are contiguous in the bundle.
The shortest setae of this kind occmin the ventral portion of the anterior bundles and the longest in the middle portion of the posterior bundles.
The number is greatest in the middle somites and diminishes each way the last parapodium having but one in this specimen.
The stout setae figs.
9 to 12 recall the form of those of Scalesdosus.
They are 2 or 3 times as thick as the slender ones and very much shorter.
Near the end is a rather abrupt enlargement beyond which they taper somewhat irregularly into a short somewhat hooked tip provided in newly formed setae with a flexible appendage which in most instances is quickly worn away.
On the dorsal side of the thickening is a short transverse fringe followed along the same or concave side of the tip by 4 or 5 pairs of delicate combs reaching about halfway to the tip.
Almost invariably 3 stout setae are found in the ventral part of the parapodium and the dorsalmost one only is accompanied by a slender seta.
On the first parapodium II are a few setae of an intermediate type fig.
8 the vcntralmost one is the stoutest the dorsal one most attenuated.
The two kinds are well difTerentiatcd on III.
The alimentary canal is slender and thinwalled with regvilar enlargements at the septa.
A few degenerating ova in the ccelom establish the sex.
As indicated above the specimen is colorless and pellucid with distinct pigment in the eyes only.
The only known specimen was taken in the surface townet 70 miles southeast of Nomans Land Massachusetts on the border of the Gulf Stream on July 31 1902 along with Salpae several species of pteropods and mediissc and other constituents of that strictly pelagic fauna.
Though this locality is not strictly within the limits of the Woods Hole region it is frequently visited by expeditions sent out from Woods Hole by the U. S. Fish Commission and members of its fauna are every summer carried into Mneyard Sound by favoralle winds.
The discovery of a species of Drieschia in oinwaters is of exceptional interest as the type and hitherto onl known species of the genus was described by Michaelsen''' from the neighborhood of Ceylon and has not been found since.
Like the new species it is pelagic and pellucid but differs decidedly in specific characters.
D. pelagica has 28 somites and 13 pairs of elytra the palpi are as long as the tentacular cirri and 2 times the antennse the dorsal cirri are all alike and have very thick but short ovate ceratophores and the stout setse are strongly curved and of a quite different shape.
The elytra have the same peculiar inflated character tlescribed for D. jeUucida though apparently less pronounced.
Tomopteris helgolandica Greef.

Several specimens of a perfectly limpid siecies of Tomopteris were taken in the townet lowered nearly to the bottom in 17 fathoms at Crab Ledge east of Chatham Massachusetts on August 19 and again on August 22 1902.
The same species was also taken at the surface at Woods Hole in July 1903.
Prof. Verrill has recorded the occurrence of the young of Tomopteris in Vineyard Sound and an unidentified species of the genus from the Gulf Stream material collected bthe Albatross in 1883. These appear to be the only published records of the capture of this interesting annelid in this region.
Miss Katharine Bush has kindly compared one of my specimens with those from the Gulf Stream in the Yale Museum and states that they are of the same species a conclusion which I am enabled to confirm througli Prof. Verrill's courtesy in sending to me an unpublished drawing of his species.
After a careful examination of the very considerable literature of the genus I am still in doubt concerning the identity of the Massachusetts examples.
Notwithstanding Apstein's excellent monographic work there are still wanted careful descriptions of the changes undergone by many of the species during growth and of the very considerable variations which occur among the mature worms of the limits of which  Mitteilungen Naturhis.
Mus.
Hamburg IX 1891 p. 6.
 Invertebrates of Vineyard Sound p. 332 626. '
Rep. U. S. Fish Commission for 1883 1885 p. .594.
 Alciopiden und Tomopteriden der Plankton Expedition.
but little is known.
From all of the species which have been accurately described with the single exception of that to which Greeff has given the name of T. helgolandica the Massachusetts form is clearly differentiated.
7'.
helgolandica it resembles closely in all of those technical characters such as the distribution of rosetteorgans and parapodial fin glands the form of the parapodia relative length of the cirri etc. which have lxen most relied upon for the discrimination of species by the best students of this group  Apstein Greeff and Vejdovsky.
On the other hand there are many minor points of difference most of which are constant in the 8 specimens at hand but which are of such a nature that they may be temporary or local and not specific.
The specimens vary in length from 6 mm. in one having 10 pairs of parapodia to 18 mm. in one having 16 pairs of parapodia besides a caudal appendage of 3 mm.
on which occur 8 additional pairs.
These and the intermediate growth stages exhibit the changes in the proportions of cirri etc. which have been described by Carpenter and others.
In all except the largest example the rosetteorgans are limited to a single one situated in the broad fin membrane near the apex of each ramus of the foot exactly as in T. helgolandica but the largest specimen only possesses the third one on the anterior side of the base of the neuropodia of the first and second feet generally present in that species.
In these the dorsal ramus of the parapodia fig.
13 is the longer while T. helgolandica is always figured as having the ventral ramus longer.
The fin membranes and the neuropodia
gland exhibit no differences.
The 4th and 5th jmrapodia are the longest and all except the first two have their finned ends turned sharply caudad.
Differences in the shape of the prostomivmi which has a more slender median part and longer horns in the shape of the base of the second pair of cirri which has an anterior shoulder and a longer interval between the second pair of cirri and the first parapodia may be due to a different state of contraction of the preserved specimens.
In all excepting the second of these respects the resemblance to the figures of 7 rolasi Greeff is closer.
The Woods Hole specimens were collected by Mr. Edwards and were studied only after preservation in formaline but no red or yellow pigment was apparent.
The Crab Ledge specimens while alive had no red pigment and the central body of the rosetteorgans was brown and not yellow moreover these organs appear to have a less regular structure than in T. helgolandica Ijut for the study of these as well as the lenses of the llackpigmented eyes and the brain fresh material is required.
In all of the specimens the alimentary canal largely fills the coelom the muscular pharynx reaches nearly or quite to the first parapodium and except in two or three the proboscis is everted and has the shape of an elliptical dish.
Ovaries are present in both rami of developed parapodia arising from near the apex of the outer wall and are actively proliferating spherical groups of ova and nursecells many of which float freely in the coelom.
There is little indication of the predominance of one cell in each of these groups so that none of the specimens shows evidence of approaching maturity.
From the foregoing it is evident that the specific identity of our species with that so well known from northern European waters under the name of T. onisciformis Eschscholtz is by no means certain.
Greeff's name is employed in the belief that future more thorough knowledge of the species of this genus will probably justify it though the grounds upon which he splits Eschscholtz's species into two and altogether abandons the latter's much earlier name are quite insufficient.
Southern New England is within the already known geographical range of T. hdgolandica.
In the western Atlantic Apstein found it abundantly in the plankton taken off Newfoundland and records it from as far south as the mouth of the Amazon river.
T. smithii errill from Eastport Maine is probally founded on adult examples of this species and if the black spots shown at the bases of the parapodia of the West Indian Tomopteris figured by Agassiz represent the ncphridial pores there is no apparent reason for considering that to be any other species.
By far the most generally distributed species in the warmer parts of the western Atlantic according to the records of the German Plankton Expedition is T. keferstinii but no American planktologist has recorded this from the surface fauna of the Gulf Stream.
Andrews states that immature individuals of a Tomopteris reseml jling T. rolasi occur at Beaufort North Carolina but no description of them has been published.
 Zeit.
.
wiss.
Zoo. XXXII p. 264.
'sis 1825 column 736 PI.
5 fig.
5. 
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. II 1879 p. 182.
 Tliree Voyages of tfie Blatxc Vol.
I p. 192.
'' Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XIV 1891 p. 300.
1903.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
801 Explanation of Plate LV.
Figs.
1 to 12.
 Drieschia pellucida.
Fig.
1.
 Dorsal view of entire worm with the elytra removed.
X 11.
Figs.
2 to 5.
 Parapodia of somites X IV IX and XIV respectively viewed from the posterior face XIV only with the setee.
X 24.
Fig.
6.
 Front view of the proboscis showing jaws and papillae.
X 56.
Fig.
7. One of the shortest of the slender setaj from the ventral margin of somite XIV.
X 250. a a small portion of the same.
X 440.
Fig.
8.
 Face view of a seta from the middle of the first parapodium II.
X 360.
Figs.
9 to 11.
 The tips of three stout setse from .somite X 9 having the pennantlike tip 10 the most ventral and 11 the most dorsal of the group.
X 360.
Fig.
12. Face view of a stout seta with tip intact from somite XIV.
X 360.
Fig.
13.
Outline of a typical parapodium fV of a mediumsized Toynoptrrif from Crab Ledge showing the rosetteorgans dr and vr the fin gland gl and the ovaries o the latter being represented diagrammatically.
X 24.
51 The following reports were ordered to be printed  REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
Twentyeight meetings of the Academy were held since the beginning of last December with an average attendance of thirty.
Verbal communications were made by Messrs. Woolman Harshberger Palmer Davis J. C. Morris Hamilton Chapman Pilsbry Keeley Montgomery Calvert A. E. Brown Strong Taylor Kennedy Hopper Dixon Sharp Conklin DuBois Phihps Fowler Strong and Stone.
Without attempting to estimate the comparative importance of these it may be noted that the remarks of Messrs. Chapman and Brown made at the meeting of November 3 on the fine collection of anthropoids presented by Dr. Thomas Biddle attracted the largest assembly of the year.
Fiftyfive papers have been presented for publication as follows Henry W. Fowler 7 Henry A. Pilsbry 5 John W. Harshberger 4 James A. G. Rehn 4 T. D. A. Cockereil 3 Howard Crawley 3 Ralph V. Chamberlain 2 Thomas L. Casey 2 Arthur Erwin Brown 2 Clarence B. Moore 2 Thomas H. Montgomery Jr. 2 J. Percy Moore 2 Adele M. Fielde 2 T. Chalkley Palmer 1 Witmer Stone 1 Witmer Stone and J.
A. G. Rehn 1 WiUiam Morton Wheeler 1 Henry Skinner 1  Edw.
B. Meigs 1  Frederick W. True 1  Nathan Banks 1  Persifor Frazer 1  Carl H. Eigenmann and C. H. Kennedy 1  E. G. Conklin 1  Dana B. Costeel 1  J.
A. G. Rehn and T. D. A. Cockereil 1  and E. G. Vanatta 1.
Three of these one as yet presented only by title lelong to the Journal.
Two of those intended for publication in the Proceedings have been withdrawn three have been returned to the authors one was transferred to the Entomological Section and one has been held for the next volume.
The others will constitute the volume for the current year.
Nine hundred and twelve pages of the Proceedings for 1903 illustrated by 44 plates 340 pages and 15 plates of the Entomological Aeivs 472 pages and 8 plates of the Transactions of the American Entomological Society Entomological Section of the Academy and 322 pages accompanied Iw 62 plates of the Manual of ConcJiology pulDlished by 803 the Conchological Section have been issued.
In addition we are indebted to Ir.
Clarence B. Ioore for the pubhcation of No.
3 of VoL XII of the Journal consisting of 136 pages profusely illustrated with text engravings.
Under the auspices of the Academy therefore there have been issued during the year 2182 pages and 129 plates of scientific matter.
The statistics of distribution are as follows Proceedings delivered to members '  exchanged   to subscribers  1150 7fl Journal exchanged '  to subscribers  104 Thirteen members and five correspondents have leen elected.
The deaths of seven members and three correspondents have been announced and the following members have resigned William H. Roberts Thomas G. Iorton Charles D. Lippincott E. Shirley Borden and Miss Ethel Smith.
The most notable event in the year's history was the adoption Iay 5 of a revised code of ByLas providing for several changes in administration.
The most important of these relate to the meetings of the Academy and the duties of the Committee on Publication.
Instead of a meeting every Tuesday evening throughout the year sessions are now held on the first and third Tuesdays from October to May inclusive thus decreasing the number from fift3'two to sixteen.
It was held that the constantly increasing tendency to the division of scientific interests into specialties and the consequent organization of sections and special societies interfered with attendance on general meetings and that all interests involved would le better secured hy meeting less frequently.
It is perhaps premature to pronounce ait opinion on the results of this important change but it is quite apparent that the interest of the meetings held since last October has been better sustained than for some years previous.
The reference of papers direct to the Pullication Committee instead of indirectly to the Academy a change unavoidable in view of the decrease in the luimber of meetings if promptness of publication were to be secured has been found in practice to be desirable as the interval between the reception of a paper and its appearance in print has been much reduced  has been in fact reduced as far as seems to be at present practicable while it is considered essential that authors should examine when possible one proof and frequently a revise.
This rule of course sometimes involves delay over which the Connnittee can have only indirect control but results in such good that there can be no question of its advisability.
A resolution was adopted February 24 requesting the Pennsylvania Topographic and Geologic Survey Commission to survey and prepare maps at an early date of the quadrangles of Coatesville Phoenixville Supplee Oxford and New Holland.
An invitation to meet in Philadelphia dming the approaching Christmas vacation has Ijeen accepted by the Society of American Zoologists the American Physiological Society the Society of Plant Morphologists and Physiologists the Society of Bacteriologists and the Eastern Branch of the American Society of Naturalists.
A number of the smaller related societies continue to a'ail themselves of permission to meet in the rooms of the Academy.
The resignation of Dr. Thomas H. Montgomer'.
Jr. has created a vacancy in the Committee on Instruction and Lectures and the death of Dr. Charles Schaeffer one in the Committee on Librar.
Edward J. Nolan Recording Secretanj.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
Continuing the inquiries begun last year concerning Correspondents whom the postal authorities reported as removed from the recorded addresses the whereabouts of several have been ascertained during the year.
In many cases the reported decease of Corresjjondents has been authenticated.
The assistance of the many persons who furnished biographical and other data in connection with this work is gratefully acknowledged and especial mention should be made of the War and Navy Departments.
During the year the deaths have lcen regretfully announced of Augustus Radcliffe Grote the American entomologist who had resided for many years in Germany Carl Gegenbaiu the eminent comparative anatomist and Julius Victor Cams the zoologist and bibliographer.
Correspondents of the Academy.
On the other hand the luster of our rolls has been increased b' the addition of the names of Theodor BoTri.
William Morton Wheeler Nestor Grehant Eduard Strasburger and Hugo de 'ries.
who have been awarded the Academy's diploma in recognition of their distinguished .services in the field of scientific research.
A marked increase in the interest manifested by its Correspondents in the affairs of the Academy has been evident.
Twentysix photographs and twentythree biographical sketches of living Correspondents were received during the year but a number have still failed to contribute to this record.
Copies of the Annual Reports were sent to 243 Correspondents some of whom in returning acknowledgments took occasion to congratulate the Academj' on its work.
Letters of felicitation were forwarded to the Roumanian Geographical Society upon the receipt of a medal commemorating the twentyfifth anniversary of its founding and to the Silesian Society for National Culture upon the completion of the first century of its existence.
To the Entomological Society of Belgium a letter of sympathy was sent upon the announcement of the death of its President PierreJules Tosquinet.
Other correspondence with foreign societies was chiefly of a routine nature.
Following is a summary of the correspondence for the fiscal 3'ear COMMUXICATIOXS RECEIVED.
Acknowledging the Academy's publications 198 Transmitting publications 48 Requesting exchanges and the supply of deficiencies 5 Invitations to participate in meetings etc. 3 Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions research funds etc. 7 Notice of death of scientific man 1 Photographs of Correspondents 26 Letters from Correspondents .32 Miscellaneous letters 47 Total received 367 COMMUXICATIOXS FoR WARDED.
Acknowledgments of gifts to the Library 743 Acknowledgments of gifts to the Museum 113 Acknowledgments of photographs 26 Requests for the supply of deficiencies 69 Copies of Annual Reports 243 Correspondents' diplomas and notices of election 11 Letters of congratulation and sympatliv 3 Letters to Correspondents 115 Miscellaneous letters 67 Total forwarded 1390 Respectfully submitted J. Percy Moore Corresponding Secretarj.
806 Dec REPORT OF THE LIBRARLX The growth of the Library during the past year is represented by 6737 additions.
This is an increase of 651 over the accessions of last year and is beheved to be more than the receipts of any other year except when entire private hbraries have been added by gift or bequest.
Of these additions 5512 were pamphlets and parts of periodicals 1017 were volumes and 208 were maps and sheets.
They were derived from the following sources  Trustees of the British Museum.... 4 Geological Survej' of Canada 4 Geological Survej of Georgia 4 Monsieur le Due de LoulDat 4 Philippine Exposition Board 4 Department of Mines New South Wales 3 Joseph MacFarland M.D 3 Department of Mines Nova Scotia 3 Comission Internacional de Limites entre Mexico y los Estados Unidos 3 United States Commission of Fish and Fislieries 2 United States Coast and Geodetic Survey 2 Department of Marine and Fisheries Canada 2 Wilham J.
Fox 2 Ministry of Works Peru 2 Commission des Travaux Geologique Portugal 2 Queensland Government 2 Imperial Geological Survej Japan 2 Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum.. 2 Messrs. Schaeffer  Koradi William E. Meehan John Crerar Library William L. Abbott M.D Massachusetts Commissioners of Inland Fisheries Librarv Association of Australia.. Rev.
H. C. McCook D.D Geological Survev of Alabama Societies 2490 I. V. Williamson Fund General Appropriation Editors 1285 874 828 United States Department of the Interior 97q Authors '77 Meigs Fund 130 Wilson Fund United States Department of Agriculture University of Chicago East Indian Government 97 89 74 36 Geological Survey of Sweden George de Schweinitz M.D 22 19 Department of Agriculture Cape of Good Hope 17 Comite Geologique Russe State of Pennsylvania Library of Congress United States Department of State 17 16 15 13 Department of Mines Victoria.... Minister of Public Works France Henry C. Chapman I.D 13 12 12 Mexican Government Conchological Section of the Academv 8 7 Geological Survey of India Samuel G. Dixon M.D 6 G Wisconsin Geological Survej Geological Survey of New Jersey.. Maryland Geological Survey Philip P. Calvert Ph.D 5 5 5 5 United States War Department.. Bureau of American Ethnologv... 4 4 Geological Survey of Minnesota.. 1 Stewardson Brown 1 Philadelphia Commercial MuDepartment of Geology and Natseums 1 mal History Indiana 1 Geological Survey of Michigan ... 1 Thomas Biddle M.D 1 Trustees of the Indian Museum... 1 Joseph Willcox 1 Geological Survey of Iowa 1 j They have been classified catalogued and arranged in the Lilrary under the following heads  Journals 5057 j Mammalogy 43 Geology 469 Bibliography 42 Botany 246 Conchology 41 General Natural History 161 Ichthyology 39 Agriculture 93 Helminthology 34 Entomology 73 Phj'sical Sciences 24 Anatomy and Physiology 69 Encyclopedias etc 17 Anthropology 66 Chemistry 16 Voyages and Travels 56 Herpetology 11 Ornithology 49  Mathematics 10 Geography 45 Medicine 8 Mineralogy 44 i Unclassified 24 The collection of lanternslides which is becoming year by year of more importance as illustrations for the courses of lectm'es delivered under the auspices of the Academy has been increased by the addition of 262 views the entire collection now numbering 1243.
A new cabinet to hold 1000 slides has been provided and a card catalogue has been prepared by Dr. Benjamin Sharp.
The additions of the year have been derived from the following soiuces Charles Schaeffer M.D. 25 Benjamin Sharp M.D. 19 Henry Skinner M.D. 7 purchased 211.
A large collection of maps which had accumulated since the founding of the Academy and which was practically inaccessible have been cleaned trimmed and backed with linen 2128 pieces forming upward of 9000 square feet have thus been treated.
A case of drawers has been provided for them and they have been roughly classified and placed therein to be more carefully arranged as soon as time can be found for the w'ork.
An important part of the journals and periodicals reported has been received in answer to applications for deficiencies written in the course of preparing sets for the binding.
Among the more interesting of such acquisitions is a complete set of the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of the Lincei of Rome efforts to secure which had been made intermittently since 1883.
Sixtyone volumes of Government publications and 45 maps either duplicates or not pertaining to the Academy's work have been returned to the Government Printing Office.
It is proposed to dispose in like manner of a large accumulation of State reports etc. received from Harrisburg.
Seventeen hundred and fortytwo volumes have been bound and an additional 157 volumes arc now in the hands of the binder.
Much the greater part of this work has been devoted to journals and transactions thus securing a notable improvement in the appearance of this portion of the Library and adding greatly to the convenience of those consulting it.
Notwithstanding the curtailment in the number of meetings the weekly accessions have been recorded catalogued and placed for inspection by those interested in them every week as usual.
The entries in the card catalogue have been prepared including the titles of the smallest pamphlets before the additions are placed in the Library.
The entire catalogue is being carefully revised by the Assistant Librarian to whom I am indebted as usual for efficient help during the year.
Edward J. Nolan Librarian .
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators report that the Museum and collections are in excellent condition with many additions and advances in the arrangement as well as in the identification of the specimens.
The most conspicuous improvement during the year has been the opening of the new Ornithological gallery in which more than half the collection of mounted birds some 6000 specimens  has been arranged and labelled.
The remainder of the collection will be prepared for exhibition and transferred to its new quarters as fast as cases can be produced.
Plateglass and mahogany cases providing 4343 cubic feet of exhibition space have been erected during the year for birds mammals invertebrates and fossils while Mr. Clarence B. Moore has presented one case for the valuable additions to his archseological collection.
A number of storage and herbarium cases have also been provided for the accommodation of various study collections making in all the greatest advance in the refurnishing of the Museum that has been effected in any one year.
The section of the basement of the new building in which the alcohohc collections are arranged has been materially enlarged to relieve its overcrowded condition.
The alcoholic mammals have been entirely rearranged.
Improvements have been made to the steamheating plant by the addition of radiators in the old building and the elevator in the new musevun has been altered to meet requirements of the municipal laws.
An additional watchman has been employed.
Messrs. Henry W. Fowler and James A. G. Rehn have been added during the year to the staff of Museum assistants.
Mr. Fowler has made important progress in the rearrangement of the general collection of fishes but has devoted most of his time to identifying the large Sumatran collection recently received from Sir.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Ir.
Rehn besides assisting in various departments has arranged and catalogued the Rhoads collection of mammals brinoing the entire series of the smaller mammalian skins into excellent order.
Details of the year's work will be found in the appended reports of the sections.
Dr. Moore has continued his work on the helminthological collection during the year and Miss Wardle has made considerable advance in the cataloguing and arranging of the archaological material.
During the spring Dr. H. A. Pilsbry made a trip through portions of Arkansas Indian Territory and Texas in the interests of the Academy and secured valuable series of mollusks reptiles and plants many of which were new to the collection.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued to add to his unique and comprehensive collection of Indian antiquities from Florida and Georgia.
His expedition of last winter proved to be unusually successful and the results make his department one of the most important in the Museimi.
Most notalle among the many additions to the zoological department was the magnificent collection of mounted anthropoid apes and skeletons presented to the Academy by Dr. Thomas Biddle.
A valuable series of fishes which fills many gaps in our collection was presented by the U. S. Fish Commission.
Dr. Henry C. Chapman has added a large number of specimens to the collection of marine invertebrates previously presented by him and Mr. Joseph Willcox has contributed a notable series of fossil mollusks from Florida.
An extensive series of fossils from the Oligocene marls of Bowden Jamaica has been added ot the Isaac Lea collection of Eocene and Oligocenc molhisca.
This collection now affords facilities for the paleontologist unequalled elsewhere.
Numerous specimens of birds manmials and reptiles were received from various sources including the Zoological Society of Philadelphia.
These have been prepared in the taxiderraical department.
A pair of mounted specimens of the wild goat of Persia have been received on deposit from Mr. Lloyd Griscom.
Besides the services rendered by the Museum staff the Curators are indebted to Dr. Philip P. Calvert Mr. Erich Daecke and Mr. Carl Fenninger for valuable assistance in the Entomological department as well as to the students of the Jessup Fund Miss H. N. Wardle Messrs. J.
A. G. Rehn and Raymond Winter.
In importance the museum research and lecture work of the year exceeds that of any other in the history of the society.
During the year the Mycological Club Philadelphia Botanical Club AntiTuberculosis Society Pennsylvania Audubon Society Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and American Ornithologists' Union have held their meetings in the Hall of the Academy.
The collections of the various departments have been studied during the year by many specialists from other cities who have visited the Academy while material has been loaned to Paul Bartsch C. D. Beadle W. H. ball C. H. Eigenmann D. G. Elhott E. M. Walker H. W. Fowler J.
B. Hatcher J. C. Merriam G. S. Miller Jr. H. F. Osborne C. V. Piper J. N. Rose S. N. Rhoads C. W. Richmond Robert Ridgway T. W. Vaughan Bryant Walker.
Henry C. Chapman Arthur Erwin Brown Henry A. Pilsbry Samuel G. Dixon.
REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS.
MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Section has suffered three peculiarly heavy losses by death this year.
Mr. Lewis Woolman died March 13 1903.
He had been for about ten years a highly energetic promoter of the excursions and other activities of the Section.
Theodore D. Rand died April 24 1903.
He had been an enthusiastic member and the principal founder of the Section and was its able Director from the beginning.
Dr. Charles Schaeffer died November 23 1903.
He likewise was one of the early zealous members of the Section and had been its skillful and diligent Recorder for about fifteen years.
Notwithstanding these severely crippling losses the Section has kept up its meetings and field excursions with almost undiminished ardor.
There have been nine meetings with an average attendance of eight and nine field excursions with an average attendance of twentynine.
At the meetings communications were made b Miss Emma Walter on the Florissant Col. region by Dr. Florence Bascom on the geology of the neighborhood of Philadelphia by Prof. Oscar C. S. Carter on the old copper mines near the Perkiomen and on the climate of Manitoba by Mr. S. Harbert Hamilton on' the geology of eastern Cuba and on petroleum by Mr. Lyman on jade by Mr. F. J. Keeley on crystal flviid inclusions containing solids with Brownian movement and on fossil bones and shells from a cave in the Cambrian limestone of Durham Furnace  by Messrs. Carter Hamilton and Lyman on the trap  besides a number of shorter communications.
The field excursions visited 1.
The Cambrian New Red and ancient gneiss rocks near Edge Hill and northeastward to the Pennypack 2.
Certain crystalline rocks near Westchester and eastward to Darby creek 3.
Crystalline rocks schists and Camlrian near Pennypack creek 4.
The New Red and crystalline rocks of Buck Ridge proper and southward through the Neshaminy Gap 5.
Crystalline rocks near the Neshaminy from the Gap to Flushing 6.
The New Red section along the canal from New Hope to Point Pleasant 7.
The crystalline rocks and Cambrian sandstone of a crosssection of Buck Ridge near the Buck Hotel 8.
The New Red and trap near Pottstown 9.
The crystalline rocks with numerous minerals between jIedia jMineral Hill Blue Hill and Newtown Square.
Some mineral specimens were obtained for the Academy's collection.
The interest shown in the meetings and in the field excursions seems amply to justify the encouragement given the Section by the Academy.
Aside from the value of any original work done for the direct increase of the world's science it is unquestionably useful to promote by these gatherings and discussions the love of the natural sciences.
It is out of a large body of comparatively inconspicuous lovers of the natural sciences that issue from time to time the neccssarity small select percentage of devoted and able workers in that field and also the generous benefactors of the Academy and kindred institutions.
In addition there is room for a feeling of satisfaction that something not wholly unimportaut has been accomplished toward the romotion of science.
The following officers have been elected for the year 1904 Director ...... Benjamin Smith Lyman.
ViceDirector George 'aux Jr.
Recorder and Sccrridri .
.
.
Miss Mary S. Holmes.
Treasurer ...... liss Emma Walter.
Conservator ..... Frank J. Keeley.
Benjamin Smith Lyman ViceDirector.
The Biological and Microscopical Section.
Nine regular and several informal meetings have leen held during the year showing increased interest among the members who now mmiber thirtyfive.
The Conservator reports that the instruments of the Section are in their usual good working order and have been in regular use during the year.
The following additions have been made  Eightynine slides principally rock and mineral secti5ns received from the Curators of the Academy.
Two slides of quartz with inclusions presented b Ir.
Hugo Bilgram.
One Zentmayer Army Hospital Microscope and outfit purchased.
Two small Queen Microscopes with objectives purchased.
ne Demonstration Microscope purchased.
One Acme No.
3 Microscope stand formerly the pro5erty of Mr. AVoolman purchased.
Among the verbal communications and papers the following may be mentioned  New Species of Trachelomonas by Ir.
T. C. Palmer Myxomycetes and liquid inclusions in quartz by Mr. Hugo Bilgram stained diatoms and models of microscopes and accessories by Ir.
F. J. Keele'  butter making and A'arious pathological subjects by Dr. J. C. Iorris remarks on specimens obtained in his travels by Mr. S. L. Shumo photographs of diatoms by Dr. T. S. Stewart slides of diatoms by Mr. W. B. Davis Mr. John A. Shulze and Mr. C. S. Boyer.
The Section has lost by death Dr. Charles Shaffer a learned and valued member and Mr.
Lewis Woolman who by his genial activity had become the jjersoual friend of every active member of the Academv.
 The officers elected for the following year are as follows Director JCheston Morris.
M.D.
ViceDirector .
.
  T. Chalkley Palmer.
Conservator .
    t  J  Iveelej .
Recorder.
C. S. Boyer.
Corresponding Secretarij .
 fL. Schunio.
Treasurer Thomas 8.
Stewart.
M.D.
Charles S. Boyer Recorder.
CoXfHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Conservator respectfully reports that the increase of the collection during the year has been very satisfactory as shown by the list of accessions to the Museum.
The general condition of the cabinet is practicallv unchanged from last year and no substantial improvements in the arrangement of material can be made until more cases are supplied.
As it does not seem desirable to enlarge our exhibition series of shells it is recommended that a number of cases in the form of stacks and about as high as the cases in the library e built to contain series which it is not advisable to exhibit either from the small size of the shells the external uniformity of large numbers of species or other reasons.
These stacks may be placed in an enclosed space on the upper gallery or better on the lower floor of the Museum.
In March and April of this year the Conservator made a conchological reconnaissance of portions of the Ozark uplift in western Arkansas and Indian Territorv and of western Texas.
The collection made comprises aliout 660 lots of mollusks 163 reptiles of 34 species.
300 sheets of plants and small collections of fossils fishes etc.
It is believed that this collection adds materially to our knowledge of the mollusks of the Southwest.
The study of this material is not yet completed.
Other collections worked upon during the year have been received from Mr. Hirase including a large number of new species and affording a great mass of valuable' zoogeographic data.
A collection obtained ly klr.
Clarence B. Moore in western Florida reported on by IIr.
Vanatta adds considerable to our knowledge of the molluscan fauna of the north shore of the Gulf of Mexico.
Many smaller accessions have also been determined and reported upon.
The Conservator has completed systematic studies on the families Urocoptidce and Mcgaspiridce the results being published in the Manual of Conchology of which 322 pages and 62 plates have been issued during this 3'ear.
Throughout the year Mr. Vanatta has rendered invaluable assistance in the work of the department.
Respectfully submitted H. A. PiLSBRY Conservator.
The Extomological Section.
The Section has received many valuable additions to its cabinets during the year about to close the largest being the collection of lepidoptera presented by the heirs of Ir.
Charles A. Blake.
This is contained in 70 bookboxes and numlers al30ut 6.000 specimens.
Important collections of orthoptera have been purchased to the number of 1.360.
They came from New Mexico Arizona Costa Rica Argentina Japan and Mexico.
Mr. Morgan Hebard has presented an interesting and valuable collection of orthoptera from lichigan numbering over a thousand specimens.
Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell has donated 596 hymenoptera from New Mexico and Mr. Henry I.
Viereck has added 1879 insects from various parts of the United States.
The total number of specimens received by purchase or donation was 16.597.
Some of these were types of new species and genera and a considerable number were new to the collection.
Nine new genera and 56 new species were described by members of the Section during the j'ear.
The greater portion of the material received has been relaxed mounted furnished with data labels and incorporated in the various collections.
One hundred and twelve Schmitt boxes have been purchased and four tin moth and dustproof cases to hold them.
Ten meetings of the Section have been held with an average attendance of fourteen persons.
Thirty verbal communications have been made at the meetings and the proceedings of the meetings have been jniblished in Entomological News.
One member died and two associates have been elected.
Entomological News and Proceedings of the Entomological Section has been completed to the end of volume fourteen with 340 pages and 15 plates.
The collections and library have been used to a greater extent than ever both by students here and from other institutions.
At the annual meeting held December 17 the following were elected to serve as officers for 1904  Director PhiUp Laurent.
ViceDirector Treasurer .
Recorder and Conservator Secretary .
H. W. Wenzel.
Ezra T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner.
Frank Haimbach.
Henry Skinner Recorder.
The Botanical Section.
The Botanical Section reports that its meetings have been held regularly during the year with a fair attendance of members.
A number of interesting and valuable communications have been made many of which have been repeated before the general meetings of the Academy.
The Conservator reports that during the year considerable progress has been made on the work of arranging the collections.
Special effort being directed to put in order the unmounted material which has accumulated in recent years resulting in the poisoning of about 15000 sheets which have been mounted numbered catalogued and distributed in their proper places through the Herbarium.
Early in the summer new cases were erected in the center of the north room on the library floor.
They are so arranged that their tops form two tables each eighteen feet long by three feet broad.
This has added twentyeight closets of twelve compartments each to the Herbarium space which has resulted in reheving the overcrowded condition of a considerable portion of the collection.
During the year all of the Authophytes have been rearranged to conform to the family sequence of Engler and Prantl commencing m the new cases above referred to sufficient space being left to allow for additions to the families arranged in this room for some time to come The cases in the south room are however still much crowded and will require additional cases for their relief.
Dr. Krout began during the summer the arrangement of the Mosses and Hepatics in the Academy's Herbarium.
Thus far about 1 500 specimens having been put into pockets and mounted on sheets these have been placed in cases in the south gallery room.
It is hoped to complete the arrangement of this portion of the collection during the coming year so that it may be rendered available for study.
The additions to the Herbarium during the year have amounted to over 3000 specimens of these the Botanical Section has purchased from the income of the Redfield Fund 951  693 of these from Mr. A.
A. Heller collected by him in California during the past year and containing a number of valuable additions in cotypes and specimens from original type localities.
The remaining 258 specimens were purchased from Ir.
Charles L. Pollard collected by himself and Messrs. William and Dr. Edward Palmer in the Province of Santiago Cuba during the early part of 1902 this collection also adds mvich of interest to the Herbarium in the way of new material.
The Academy has purchased 280 specimens of Mexican plants collected by Ir.
C. G. Pringle for 1901 and 1902.
The Academy's expedition to Arkansas Indian Territory and western Texas early in the year under Dr. Pilslry brought back about 300 sheets of plants which will form an interesting collection from this region.
The balance of the additions have been received as donations from sundry individuals the most noteworthy being collections from Washington and Idaho presented by Mr. C. .
Piper from California and New Mexico presented by Mr. C. F. Saunders from the northwestern United States and British Columbia presented by Dr. James Darrach and a collection of Mosses from various parts of the United States presented by Mrs. Anne Morrill Smith with others a detailed list of which will be found in the additions to the Museum.
The Conservator wishes to acknowledge assistance received in the arranging of the collections from Miss Ada Allen assistant in the Herbarium and Ir.
Raymond Winter a Jessup Fund beneficiary.
The Philadelphia Botanical Club has continued to hold its meetings in the Academy its members having added about 300 specimens to the local Herbarium during the 3'ear.
At the meeting of the Section held Monday Decemler 14 the following Avere elected as its officers to serve for the ensuing year Director Benjamin H. Smith.
ViceDirector Joseh Crawford.
Recorder .
.
.... Dr. Ida A. Keller.
Treasurer and Conservator .
.
.
Stewardson Brown.
Stewardson Brown Conservator.
817 The Ornithological Section.
During the past year the Conservator has completed the arrangement of the mounted collection of water birds and Gallinacea in the new Ornithological gallery four additional cases having been provided for their accommodation.
Three other cases now about finished will permit of the transference of the Ostriches and Birds of Prey early in the coming year.
The gallery was opened to the public on November 12 and has attracted much attention as the specimens are displayed to far better advantage than formerly.
Beside the labelling of the individual specimens large explanatory cards have been prepared for the various families  giving their geographic distribution number of species and some of the most striking characteristics.
The further systematic arrangement of the study cohection of skins has been facilitated by the provision of five tin cases and two large wooden cases so that the entire series is now preserved in modern mothproof cases except the Anatida Tyrannidffi Cuculidaj and Birds of Prey.
The overcrowded condition of several of the cases has also been relieved.
A fine series of California skins numbering about 700 specimens was purchased by the Academy early in the year.
The collection illustrates many of the plumages of our Western birds not hitherto represented and contains quite a number of geographic races new to the cabinet.
In return for aid in identifying the collection of birds in the Philadelphia Commercial Museums the Conservator obtained a fine series of specimens from South America and Africa of which the Academy was much in need.
Another valuable collection was presented by Mr. Adolf van dcr Wielen and a fine collection of eggs of North Dakota birds was received from Dr. William E. Hughes.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has added several specimens of the now nearly complete collection of local birds and nests presented some years ago.
All the material received during the year has been catalogued and labelled making an addition of about 1100 specimens.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held their meetings in the building during the year and on November 1619 the American Ornithologists' Union 818 rDec.
held their Annual Congress at the Academy the meeting proving the largest in the history of the organization.
Much aid has been given during the year to ornithologists of other institutions both by loan and by placing our material at the disposal of visiting students.
In the work of the department the Conservator is much indebted to Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn for valuable assistance.
The officers elected for the ensuing year are  Director ViceDirector Secretary .
Recorder Treasurer and Conservator Spencer Trotter M.D.
George Spencer Morris.
William A. Shryock.
Stcwardson BroMi.
Witmer Stone.
Respectfully submitted WiTJiER Stone Conservator.
The election of Officers Councillors on Accounts to serve during 1904 was President VicePresidents .... Recording Secretary Corresponding Secretary Treasurer Librarian Curators Councillors to serve three yearCommittee on Accounts and Members of the Committee held with the following result  Samuel G. Dixon M.D.
Arthur Erwin Brown E. G. Conklin Ph.D. Edward J. Nolan M.D.
J. Percy Ioore Ph.D. George Vaux Jr. Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Henry C. Chapman M.D.
Arthur Erwin Brown Samuel G. Dixon M.D.
Henry A. Pilsbry D.Sc.
C. Ncwlin Peirce Phihp P. Calvert Ph.D. Thomas Biddle M.D.
Charles Morris Harold Wingate Samuel N. Rhoads Philip P. Calvert Ph.D.  Vacancies unfilled out of respect to the memory of Dr. Charles Schaeffer wlio was nominated for these offices.
1903 J 819 COUNCIL FOR 1904.
Exofficio. Samuel G. Dixon M.D. Edwin G. Conklin Ph.D. ArthrnErwin Brown Edward J. Nolan M.D. J. Percy Moore Ph.D. George VaiLX Jr. Henry A. Pilsbry D.Sc and Henry C. Chapman M.D. '
i To serve Three Years. Br.
C. Newhn Peirce Philip P. Calvert Ph.D. Thomas Biddle M.D.
To serve Two Years.
 Thomas A. Robinson Charles Cramp Charles Morris and Isaac J. Wistar.
To serve One Year.
 Thomas Fenton M.D. Edwin S. Dixon John Cadwalader and WiUiam Sellers.
Curator of Mollusca Assistant Librarian Assistants to the Curators Taxidermist Jessup Fund Students Henry A. Pilsbry D.Sc.
Wilham J.
Fox.
Witmer Stone Henry Skinner M.D. Stewards on Brown J. Percy Moore Ph.D. Edward G. Vanatta Henry W. Fowler J.
A. G. Rchn.
David McCadden.
J.
A. G. Rehn Harriet Newell Wardle.
Janitors.
Charles Clappier Daniel Heckler James Tague Jacob Aeblev.
