A LIST OF ARACHNIDA FROM HAYTI, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES.
BY NATHAN BANKS.
During the spring of 1899 Mr. R. J.
Crew collected some spiders in Hayti, mostly from the vicinity of Port-au-Prince.
Comparatively few spiders have been recorded from this island, and many of these are from other parts and are large spiders.
According to my instructions Mr.
Crew collected the smaller species, and thus secured a number of new forms, as well as others unknown from the region.
In all 63 spiders and 3 Phalangids were taken.
The Epeiridce with 17 species and the Attidse with 15 species are more fully represented than the other families.
Most of the spiders are known only from the West Indies, but about 17 species occur also in the southern United States.
The follomng is the list: Araneida.Scytodes longipes Lucas.
Scytodes fusca Walck.
Nops coccineus Simon.
Pholcus tipuloides Koch.
Widfila parimla Banks.
Chiracanthium indusum Hentz.
Aysha tenuis Koch.
Anyphcena gracilipes Banks.
Hypsijiotus humilus Keyserlins.
Trachelas hicolor Keyserling.
Eutichurus insulanus Banks.
Theridium studiosum Hentz.
Theridula sphcerula Hentz.
Theridula triangularis Keyserling.
Floronia coccineus Hentz.
Argyrodes argyrodes Walck.
(tiephilce Tacz.).
Argyrodes trituherculatus Becker.
Ulohorus geniculatus (31ivier.
Miagrammopes sp.
(immature), Tetragnatha sp.
(female).
Argyroepeira argyra Walck.
Argyroepeira bigibhosa Keyserling.
Alcimosphenus licinus Simon.
Epeira theisii Walckenaer.
Epeira circulata Walck.
{halaustind%iQ,Co6k) .
Epeira fusco-vittata Keyserling.
Epeira undecim-tuberculata Keyserling.
Epeira foliata Hentz.
Eustala prompta Hentz.
Singa crewii Banks.
Cyclosa walckenaeri Keyserling.
Wagneria tauricornis Cambridge.
Acrosoma armatum Fabriciiis.
Gasteracantha hilaris Thorell.
Gasteracantha tetracantha Linnaeus.
Gasteracantha cancriformis Walck.
Gasteracantha sexserrata Walck.
Misumena asperatus Hentz.
Misumena sp.
(immature).
Stephanopis rugosa Taczanowski.
Isaloides toussaintii Banks.
Olios antiguensis Keyserling.
Heteropoda venatoria Linnaeus.
Selenops insularis Keyserling.
Dolomedes -marginellus Koch.
Oxyopes salticus Hentz.
Peucetia viridans Hentz.
Hamalatiwa grisea Keyserling.
Wala vernalis Peckham.
Wala peckhamce Cockerell.
Plexippus paykulli Aud.
and Sav.
Metacyrba pictipes Banks.
Nilakantha cocker elli Peckham.
Prostheclina perplexa Peckham.
Prostheclina morgani Peckham.
Prostheclina signata Banks.
Pellenes locuples Simon.
Mogrus cephalotes Simon.
Cybele haytiensis Banks.
Icius separatus Banks.
Synageles sp.
(immature).
Lyssomanes viridis Hentz.
Lyssomanes antillianus Peckham.
342 proceedings of the academy of [^i^y, Phalangida.
Cynorta obscura Banks.
Cynorta v-album Simon.
Stygnus insidanus Banks.
Descriptions of New Species.
Wulfila parvula n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish, black around eyes; mandibles redbrown; sternum yellowish; legs and abdomen paler, unmarked.
The posterior eye-row procurved, P.iM.E.
fully diameter apart, about as far from the rather smaller P.S.E.
; A.M.E. quite small, once and onehalf their diameter apart, scarcely as far as the larger A.S.E., the latter close to and plainly smaller than the P.S.E.
, quadrangle of M.E.
higher than broad, and broader behind than in front.
Mandibles quite large; in the male very much elongate, nearly as long as femur I, tapering and divergent beyond middle, porrect, bearing a row of teeth below.
Legs long and slender, three pairs of spines under tibiae I and II, two pairs under these metatarsi.
Male palpus long, on the upper side of the tibia is a row of short black spines, and a group of similar spines at the tip.
Length, d^ 3.2 mm.
; 9 2.8 mm.
Several specimens of both sexes.
Anyphsena gracilipes a. sp.
Pale yellowish throughout; dorsum of abdomen rather more grayish, with a few indistinct elongate gray streaks above; eyes on black spots.
Eyes subequal in size, except those of the anterior median pair which are much smaller than the others.
Posterior eye-row procurved; P.M.E.
fully diameter apart, nearly as far from the equal P.S.E.
; A.M.E. about diameter apart, very small, a little farther from the much larger A.S.E.
Mandibles moderately long, but not porrect.
Legs extremely long and slender, the anterior tibia nearly twice as long as the cephalothorax ; the tibia and metatarsi I and II have each two pairs of very long spines beneath.
Abdomen quite slender; the ventral furrow much nearer to the vulva than to the spinnerets.
The epigynum shows two dark almond-shaped cavities, their pointed ends toward each other and curved backward.
Length 6 mm.
One specimen, female.
Singa crewii n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish, with a median blackish stripe, darker around eyes.
Mandibles yellowish-brown; sternum pale, sides brownish.
Legs pale yellowish, tips of tibise dark; palpi pale on base, blackish beyond.
Dorsum of abdomen pale grayishwhite, with a broad gray folium, distinct in outline, but pale within, its anterior edges broadly marked with black, this black in front connects to the basal ends of the black side stripes, these stripes are broad black ones on each upper side of abdomen, below them the sides are pale yellowish; on the middle of the venter is a large black area, containing a central square pale spot.
It is of the usual structure of the genus, the legs, however, rather longer than usual.
Length 4 mm.
One female; a very pretty species.
Isaloides toussaintii n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellow, more brownish on the sides; mandibles, palpi and sternum pale yellowish; hind two pairs of legs pale yellow; anterior pairs more red-brown, with a pale spot beyond middle of tibia; abdomen pale gray, with a broad brown stripe from base to tip, with irregular sides, and covering the tubercles ; venter pale, rather darker in the middle.
Cephalothorax flat above, eye-region but little elevated; clypeus low; no dorsal' groove ; posterior row recurved, P.M.E.
about one and one-half diameter apart, and fully as far from the P.S.E.
; A.M.E. much lower down than A.S.E.
so that the eyes are really in three rows, A.M.E. not half the size of P.M.E., but fully twice the diameter apart; A.S.E.
fully twice as large as P.M.E.
and about two diameters apart.
Four pairs of spines under tibiae I and II, three pairs under these metatarsi.
Length 6 mm.
Several specimens ; diflfers from I. octoperlata Sim.
in the shape of the vulva, as well as in minor characters.
Metacyrba pictipes n. sp.
Cephalothorax dark red-brown, a narrow white side-margin; abdomen greenish-brown, with a pair of parallel submedian pale lines above, made up of dots, rather indistinct; sternum dark red-brown; venter greenish-brown, with indistinct pale lines each side ; tips of palpi white ; mandibles reddish-brown; yellow hairs around eyes and on clypeus.
Legs brown, tarsi white, a pale spot beneath on trochanters, patellae above are almost wholly pale yellowish, an indistinct pale line above on femora and tibiae, scarcely visible on the anterior pair.
Structure similar to M. tceniola Hentz.
Length 3.8 mm.
One male specimen, closely related to M. tceniola, but the male palpus has but one long projection on the tibia, the other is quite short; the legs are very differently marked than in M. tceniola.
Cybele haytiensis n. sp.
Cephalothorax reddish-yellow, with a median white spot with an extension each side and behind; eyes on large black patches; clypeus pale; mandibles pale, with a brown band across middle; sternum and legs pale, the latter with some small brown patches at base of joints and on the tibia near middle; abdomen pale, with gray-brown dots and an irregular stripe each side; venter pale.
Male similar, but the side stripes from the median pale mark are indistinct; the anterior pair of legs is infuscate ; the mandibles are brown ; the venter is black ; and there is a black stripe on the ventral side of each coxa.
The epigynum shows two large circular marks quite close to each other, and in front two divergent curved lines; the male palpus is quite simple, the tibia is long and with a long, straight projection on the outer side at tip.
Length, ?
7 mm., c?
5.5 mm.
A few specimens of both sexes.
Evidently related to C albopalpis Peck., from Jamaica.
Icius separatus n. sp.
Cephalothorax yellowish-brown, clothed with white and yellowish scales and scattered long black hairs; eyes on black spots, and a transverse black patch in the middle of the eye-region.
Mandibles redbrown; sternum pale; legs very pale, the anterior pair more yellow, and its joints tipped with blackish, other legs unmarked.
Dorsum of abdomen pale gray, with several large median brown spots forming an incomplete median stripe; each side are many small brown spots; the sides of the abdomen with brown lines ; the venter pale ; the spinnerets reddish.
The cephalothorax is rather low and flat, and cpite short; the eyeregion is plainly broader behind than in front, and about once and a third broader than long; the A.S.E.
are as high as the A.M.E., the latter very large and touching; the eyes of second row are nearer to lateral than to dorsal eyes.
Leg I, which is rather longer than leg IV, is much enlarged, five stout spines on femur I, three pairs under tibiae I and II, two pairs under same metatarsi; metatarsus III spined only at tip; anterior coxae separated by width of lip; abdomen short and flat.
Length 3.2 mm.
One female specimen.
Explanation of Plate XV, Fig.
1.
— Cybele haytiensis.
Fig.
2.
— Wulfila parvula, vulva.
Fig.
3.
— Isaloides toussaintii, vulva.
Fig.
4.
— Wulfila parvula, palpus.
Fig.
5.
— Icius separatus, eyes.
Fig.
6.
— Anyphcena gracilipes, eyes.
Fig.
7.
— Metacyrha pictipes, palpus.
Fig.
8.
— Singa crewii, vulva.
Fig.
9.
— Cybele haytiensis, vulva.
Fig.
10.
— Anypha;na gracilipes, vulva.
Fig.
1 1 .
— Icius separatus, vulva.
Fig.
12.
— Cybele haytiensis, palpus.
