OBSERVATIONS ON TUPAIA, WITH REFLECTIONS ON THE ORIGIN OF PRIMATES.
BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D.
According to many anatomists, "the Twpaice possess a large coeciim.
"^ It appears Avorthy of mention, therefore, that on opening recently the abdominal cavity of a specimen of Tupaia ferruginca from Borneo not a trace of a coecum was to be seen (PI.
IX, fig.
1), confirming the statement recently made by the writer^ that the coecum was not invariably present in that Insectivore, nor was it present in a recently examined specimen of T. pictum.
It may be stated, in a general way at least, that in mammals in Avhicli the stomach is large the coecum is small, and vice versa.
This inverse relation of the stomach and coecum as regards size appears to be conditioned by the fact that in cases where gastric action is limited by the small size of the stomach, the lack of digestion is made up by the digestive action that goes on in the coecum.
It is not to be supposed, howeA'er, that the coeciun secretes a digestive juice like that of the stomach, but rather that the proteid elements of the food and the acids developed from the latter by fermentation act upon the residue of the food in the coecum like the pepsin and hydrochloric acids of the gastric juice.
In cases, therefore, in which the stomach is large, as in that of the Tupaia examined, it might be expected that the coecum would l^e found to be small, or even altogether absent".
As a matter of fact, in the specimen of Tupaia dissected the stomach was relatively large, measuring in its long diameter 5 cent.
(2 inches), the animal itself, from the vertex to the root of the tail, measuring only 20 cent.
(S inches).
The stomach was found disteraded to its utmost capacity, presenting an almost globular form, and filled with what ay)peared to be principally the remains of vegetal^lc food, though some remains of insects were present.
As gastric digestion appeared to be largely accomplished by the stomach in the case (",f the Tupaia examined, the entire absence of a ca'cum becomes, after what has just been said, intelligible.
The intestine, measuring 71.2 cent.
(28.5 inches), exhibited throughout a luiiform diameter, and was loosely suspended from the duodenum to the rectum by a continuous fold of peritoneum.
1 Huxley, Anat.
of Vertebrated Animals, 1872, p. 383; Carus, Zoologie, 186875, S. 89.
^ Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phlla., 1902, p. 249.
1904.]
149 The liver was divided into four lobes, the gall bladder lying as if in a hole in the cystic fissure.^ The common bile duct passed into the intestine .5 cent, (one-fifth of an inch) from the pylorus, that of the pancreas about an equal distance from the orifice of the bile duct.
As Tupaia is usually regarded as being in its affinities the most lemurine of the Insectivora, and Tarsius the most insectivoroiis of the lemurs, the alimentary canal of Tarsius spectrum recently dissected by the author (PI.
IX, fig.
2) is submitted for comparison with that of Tupaia.
It will be observed that in Tarsiiis a distinct coecum is present, though not large, and that the stomach is very small.
In previous communications made to the Academy, the author called attention to the affinities of Chiromys and the Rodentia,* Galeopithecus and the Chiroptera.^ If the structure of these animals has been correctly interpreted, and it be further admitted that Tarsius stands in a similar relation to the Insectivora, and Loris (Stenops) to the Simiae, the phylum of these various orders would be related to each other somewhat as follows : Homo Gorilla Chimpanzee Pithecanthropus Gibbon Orang CatarrhinsE Arctopitheca Platyrrhinae Rodentia Chiroptera .1 I Chiromys Galeopithecus Loris Insectivora Tarsius Lemuravidse Adapidse Hyopsodinje ' Hunter, Essays and Observations on Nat.
History, edited by Owen.
^Proc.
of Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900. s Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902 If speculation be fui'ther indulged in as regards the manner in which the descendants of cretaceous or eocene lemurs could be transformed into Platyrrhine monkeys like those living at the present day, it is readily seen, as suggested by Leidy,® ''that but little change would be necessary to evolve from the jaw and teeth of Nothardus that of a modern monkey.
The same condition which would lead to the suppression of a first premolar in continuance would reduce the fangs of the other premolars to a single one.
This change with a concomitant shortening and increase of depth of the jaw, would give the character of a living Cebus.
A further reduction of a single premolar would give rise to the condition of the jaw in the Old World apes and man."
In the imion of the rami of the jaw at the symphysis, in the small size of the condyle, in the number of the incisors, canines and true molars, nearly alike in their constitution and in their crowded condition, the lower jaw of Nothardus resembles most strikingly that of a Platyi'rhine monkey.
Like Leidy, both Cope and Marsh regarded the Platyrrhine monkeys, on the one hand as the descendants of extinct lemurs, and, on the other, as the ancestors of the Catarrhinse.
Thus Cope,^ basing his \dew upon the structure of Tomitherium, offered as a possible phylum the following: Homo I Sitniidae 1 Cebus I Hapale I Lemur Tomitherium though later, as we shall see presently, he modified the above view^ somewhat, finally regarding man and the anthropoids as having probably descended directly from extinct lemurs hke Anaptomorphus.
By similar reasoning from the study of closely affiliated, if not identical, Lemuroid genera: Limnotherium (Tomitherium), Antiacodon (Anaptomorphus), Marsh,® in referring to the origin of the Primates, was led to the conclusion that "we may justly claim America for the birthplace of the order."
Why the Old World apes, when difterentiated, did not come to the s Extinct Vertebrate Fauna, 1873, p. 90, ' Mammalia Educabilia, Am.
Phil.
Soc, 1873.
.
*' Lemuroidea, etc., American Naturalist, 1885, p. 467.
^ Vertebrate Life in America, 1877, p. 52. land of their earlier ancestry is readily explained by the then intervening oceans, which likewise were a barrier to the return of the horse and rhinoceros.
Man, however, came doubtless first across Behring's Straits, and at his advent became part of our fauna as a mammal and primate.
As a confirmation of the view that the Platyrrhinse have descended from monkeys, it may be mentioned that while the remains of Cebus, Mycetes, Callethrix, and Hapale have been found, according to Ameghino,^" in the Pleistocene strata of Brazil, extinct lennn-s, such as Notopithecidffi and Homunculidge, have been discovered recently, according to the same high authority, in the eocene deposits of South America."
Indeed, according to Ameghino," the Homunculidce are to be regarded as the ''ancetres de tous les singes du nouveau que de I'ancien continent les lemurs excepte."
Cope appears to have taken the same view as that expressed by Ameghino.
In speaking of certain extinct forms of monkeys found in Patagonia, he remarks that they ''appear to be ancestors of the existing South American monkeys (Cebidffi), and possibly of the Old Yvorld m.onkeys also.
"^^ It should be mentioned, however, that these fossils are regarded by some paleontologists as being rather the remains of Platyrrhine monkeys than lemurs.
Should such prove hereafter to be the case, it will not weaken the argument, since in that case the forms in question^ if not lemurs, would be intermediate in character between the latter and Platyrrhine monkeys.
The remains of Catarrhine monkeys, such as Papeo, Macacus, Semnopithecus, and possibly even of the chimpanzee and orang, have been found in the Pliocene deposits of India."
Such facts are, however, not inconsistent — indeed, have little or no bearing upon the question of the derivation of Catarrhine from Platyrrhine monkej^s — since the only assumption that would be necessary would be to suppose that the Platyrrhine ancestors of the fossil Pliocene Catarrhines existed once in India or elsewhere.
It may be said, however, that this is assuming the very question at issue, a case of petitio principii; but the reverse proposition, that the Platyrrhine have descended from the Catarrhine monkeys, is untenable, being inconsistent with the w^ell-established fact that the more ancient members of a group of animals had always more teeth than the later more recent 1" Adas Sciencia.
'i Cordoba, T. VI, 1S89, p. 101. "
Bol.
Acad.
Nac.
Buenos Aires, T. XVII, 1902, p. 7.
12 Op.
cif., T. XIII, 1902, p. 265. "
Organic Evolution, 1896, p. 154.
1* Flower and Lyddeker, Mammals Living and Extinct, 1891, pp.
723, 727 738. members of the same.
Thus among the Prosimige, for example, the oldest members of the group, the Hyopsoclinse, possessed 44 teeth = 3 ' I ' ^ 3 in each jaw, the more recent Adapidae 40 teeth = | ' i\' ^ , the most recent LemuridjB 36 teeth = |^ ^ | | , the Platyrrhin^e 36 teeth with the exception of the Arctopitheca 32 teeth = ^ 132' ^'^^^ filially the Catarrhinse, including the anthropoid apes and man, 32 teeth = g ' ^ ' ^ 3 .
It is highly improbable, if not impossible, therefore, to say the least, that Platyrrhine monkeys with 36 teeth should have descended from Catarrhine ones i^rovided with only 32; that 4 premolar teeth, absent in the ancestors, once lost, should reappear again in their descendants — an objection that ecjually applies to Cope's derivation of Cehus with 36 teeth from Hapale with 32, as previously mentioned.
Further, the Platyrrhine monkeys resemble lemurs in many more respects than in the mere number of the teeth, thus showing their inferior position in zoological rank as compared with the Catarrhines.
Thus, for example, the oblique ridge extending from the anterior internal cusp (protocone) to the posterior external cusp (metacone) of the upper molars in Ateles and Mycetes, and many other South American monkeys, is present in certain lemurs, such as Nycticehus, Ardocebus, Loris, as also in anthropoid apes and man, though absent in the remaining Catarrhines.^^ Now the presence of this oblique ridge in the upper molars of lemurs, apes and man was regarded by so high an authority as Cope as such an important feature in their structure that it largely influenced that great paleontologist in suggesting the view, already alluded to, that man and apes are the direct descendants of lemurs rather than of Catarrhines.
It is obvious, however, that if Cope's argvmient is of any force in the above instance, it must be of even greater cogency in showing that Platyrrhine monkeys have descended from lemurs, since lemurs and Platyrrhina?
not only exhibit the "oblique ridge" in their molars, but possess many other structiual features in common, whereas lenuu's are relatively so low in the zoological scale that they are not regarded liy most anatomists as being primates at all.
Indeed, Cope might just as well have argued that man has descended from a Platyrrhine monkey as from a lemur, the evidence adduced being about as good for the one view as the other; for even if the "centre of motion" of the vertebral column and the " anticlinal vertebra, " the number of vertebrae entering into the formation of the sacrum, etc., are only the same in man, anthropoids and Nycticebidce,^^ nevertheless in other respects — in fact, 1^ Tomes, Dental Anatomy, 1876, pp.
7, 370.
1® Flower, Osteology of Mammalia, 1870, pp.
47, 24, 60. in the totality of tlieir organization — man and anthropoids resemble the Catarrhine monkeys far more than lemurs.
Had Cope, at the time he described Anaptomorphus, been aware that the placenta of Tarsius, a closely affiliated lemur, was discoid in form and highly complex in structure rather than diff\ise and non-deciduous, as in other lemurs, his view of the lemuroid descent of man would have been strengthened l^y an argument of far more weight than one based upon the presence of an oblique ridge on certain teeth and the number of sacral vertel^rse, which vary even in different individuals of the same or closely allied species.
Apart from the number of the teeth being the same in Platyrrhines and lemurs, the lemuroid character of dentition of the former is clearly manifested by the long narrow inferior incisors of the South American Saki (Pithccea).
Further, in all Platyrrhine monkeys, as in most lemurs, the base of the petrosal bone is excavated by that part of the lateral cerebral venous sinus terminating at the postglenoicl fossa.
Similarly in both lemurs and Platyrrhines the malar bone is perforated by that branch of the facial nerve known to the classical anatomist as the "nervus subcutaneus malse."
Again, in many Platyrrhines — as, for example, in Cebus, Ateles, Nyctipithecus — a small unossified vacuity is exhibited in the bony plate separating the orbital from the temporal fossa, evidently the relic of the space by which the two fossa freely communicate in the lemurs.
In all the South American monkeys the tympanic bone retains more or less its primitive ring-like form, the cavity of the tympanum lyingclose to the external wall of the cranium, its inferior surface, together with that of the anchylosed penotic bone, exhibiting a very swollen appearance.
In this respect the Platyrrhine monkeys agree with the lemurs, in which the inferior surface of the tympanum presents a large rounded bulla, and differ from all Old World monkeys, in none of which an auditory bulla is ever present.
The otosteals of the Platyrrhines resemble those of lemurs more than those of Catarrhines, monkeys, apes or man.
It is an interesting fact, also, that while the macula lutea is present in the eye of man, apes and Catarrhines, it has never been found, so far as known to the writer, in any Platyrrhine or lemur.
As reference has been made to the character of the vertebrae in man and Nycticebidffi, it may be as well mentioned in this connection tliat in the lemur Galago the posterior edges of the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebra3 present a pair of processes which, projecting backward, clasp the anterior edges of the succeeding spinous process, and that similar processes, though not so well developed as in Gcdago, are present in certain species of South American monkeys, as, for example, in Lagoihrix and Mycetes.
The presence of these processes is quite as strong a proof that Platyrrhines have descended from lemurs as are the peculiarities in the vertel^ral column already referred to that man has descended directly from a lemur.
It is well known that while the supracondylar perforation of the humerus is not found in any Old World monkey, nor in Hapale, Ateles or Mycetes among those of the New World, nevertheless such perforation is found in the Cebida3 and most of the lemurs.
It would be tedious to show in farther detail that, as regards the muscular system, the character of the brain, the larynx, the alimentary canal, and in many other respects, the Platyrrhine monkeys are less specialized than the Catarrhines, whicli has induced the majority of anatomists to regard the New World monkeys as of higher rank zoologically than the lemurs, but lower in the scale of life than the Catarrhines, occupying an intermediate position between the two.
This is consistent with the view that they are the descendants of the one and the ancestors of the other.
This conclusion has l^een confirmed in late years by the remarkable researches of Selenka," Strahl,^" and others, who have shown, in a general way at least, that the transitory stages through wdiich the placenta of man and anthropoids pass are permanently retained as the placenta of certain marsupials, lemurs, Tarsius, Platyrrhines, Catarrhines, illustrating the law that in the development of the placenta the ontogeny is as elsewhere the epitome of the phylogeiiy.
Thus while in marsupials like Macropus the allantois remains free, as first shown by Owen," and nearly fifty years afterward by the writer ,^° in Perameles and Deisyunis the allantois, it is said, adheres to the mucous wall of the uterus, forming at least the beginning of a placenta, without, however, a decidua or chorionic villous process being developed.
In lemurs, while no decidua is as yet developed, the chorion exhibits villous processes which insinuate themselves into the mucous wall of the uterus.
In Teir-sius, however, the allantois begins to form a true disk-like placenta with a veritable decidua — "nicht eine lockere gross zottige diffuse Placentation wie Lemur und Nycticebus sondern eine hoch komplicirte und diskoide Placenta besitzt.
"^^ ^' Selenka, Studien iiber Entwickelungsgeschichte der Tiere, 1900, S. 176. '
'^ Strahl, in O. Hertwig's Entivickelungslehre der Wirbeltiere, Dritte Lieferung, 1900, S. 235.
19 Phil.
Trans., 1834, 27.
^°Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1881.
-1 HuBRECHT, Die Keimblase von Tarsius, 1896, S. 15.
The placenta of the New World monkeys exhibit a step further in advance the difference from the placenta of Tarsius, being however, one of degree raiher than of kind.
In the Old World monkeys the allantois forms a double placenta, a primary large dorsal one and a secondary small ventral one (Plate X).
While this appears to be normally the case, it should be mentioned that the writer observed but one placenta in the case of a pregnant female of Macacus cynomolgus examined by him, though the pregnancy was far advanced in both instances.
^^ n ^m j^q observed that in the case of the Macacus (Plate X), the two placentas are not entirely separated as is usually the case in Catarrhines, being joined by a small body of tissue.
It is also a significant fact that while two umbilical veins and two umbilical arteries are always present in the umbilical cord of the New World monkeys, but one umbilical vein is present in that of the Old World ones.
Finally, the placenta of the anthropoids agrees essentially with that of man.
In the opinion of the writer, therefore, the phylum submitted at p. 149, essentially that of Haeckel," expresses about the truth as to the descent of man, etc., so far as can be learned at present from the facts of palaeontology, comparative anatomy and embryology, that bear upon the question.
That the ancient Prosimise, Hyopsodinse, Adapida?, etc., have descended from some ungulate type of life is manifested by their affinities with the latter group of mammals.
Indeed, Cuvier described .4c/apis as "un autre genre de pachyderme — et que je nommerai provisoirement Adapis,"^* while, according to Leidy, Notharctus tenebrosus was "a, small extinct pachyderm, resembling that of some of the existing American monkeys quite as much as it does that of any of the living pachyderms.
"^^ It is quite possible that future researches may show that there is no genetic connection between Chiromys and the Rodentia, but that the rodent-like teeth of the former and of the wombat may have been acquired independently by a process of natural selection, it being easy to see, according to Tomes,^^ ''how a rodent type of dentition is beneficial to its possessor by rendering accessible articles of food wholly unavailable for creatures which have no means of gnawing through' a " Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
PMla., 1879, p. 146.
^^ Anthropogenie, Zweiter Band, 1903, S. 650.
^■^ Ossemens Fossiles, Tome 5"'', 1S35, p. 460.
^^ Leidy, op.
cit., pp.
86, 89.
2« Op.
cit., p. 249. shell or other hard body," the theory being, according to Darwin, that a small variation arising in the dentition through some nutritive change, and being of advantage in the struggle for life, would be intensified in successive generations until, in the end, a type of tooth would be evolved such as is presented in the case of the wombat, Chiromys, and Rodentia living in far distant parts of the world.
Finally, in the judgment of the writer, man cannot have descended from either the gorilla, chimpanzee, the orang or gibbon, since, apart from the structural difference between any one of them and man being too great to warrant such an hypothesis, the three great anthropoid apes are obviously degenerates leading to no higher form of life, but ra]3idly dying out, as shown by the fact that these apes resemble man much more when Yevj young than when adult.
While it is true that the gap between man and the gibbon is greater than between man and the remaining apes, nevertheless, as Pithecanthropus erectus, whatever its real nature may be, is something more than a gibbon, and yet something less than a man — more ape-like than any man, and more man-like than any ape ^^ — by a method of exclusion the conclusion is reached that the man and gibbon are related in some way.
It must iDe admitted, nevertheless, that the question of the exact origin of man is largely as yet one of speculation, and that future researches may show that our ancestors may have been extinct Catarrhine or Platyrrhine monkeys or even lemurs.
-' E. Dubois, Pithecanthropus Erectus, 1894.
O. C. Marsh, On the Pithecanthropus, etc., 1895.
ScHWALBE, Studien iiber Pithecanthropus erectus, Zeits.
fiir Morph.
v.
Anthr., 1899, S. 16.
SABELLID5: AND SERPULIDJE FROM JAPAN, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF SPIRORBIS.
BY J. PERCY MOORE and KATHARINE J. BUSCH.
In these Proceedings for 1903 was published a paper describing most of the Polychseta taken in Japanese waters and elsewhere in the North Pacific in the spring of 1900 by the U. S. F. C. steamer Albatross.
The present paper is a continuation of that contribution, and is based on the same collections.
A third part will some time deal Avith a number of species belonging to various families, the descriptions of which are withheld until some desirable comparisons can be made.
Among the species previously described a considerable admixture of circumboreal forms was found, most of them from the more northern stations.
That none such is found among the Sabellidee and Serpulidse probably results from the fact that all of the species described in this paper came from the southeastern coast of Honshu, and especially from Station 3,707, on a sandy and gravelly bottom in Suruga Bay.
Saint-Joseph's revision of these families was largely used as a guide in the generic references, but even with this help much difficulty was found in satisfactorily placing several of the species, and it will be noticed that some of them, and particularly Sabella japoiiica and Pomatoceras aurituhis, depart widely from the generic types in some respects.
In the enumeration of segments the collar setse have been counted as belonging to the first of peristomial somite.
I take this opportunity to state that Maldane coronata and Axiothea campanulata of my former paper are synonyms respectively of M. gotoi and Cbjmene harai Izuka.
Although Izuka's paper was published some months before mine it was not seen by me luitil after the correction of the final proofs.
Sabella japonica n. sp.
(PI.
XI, fig.s.
l, 2; PL XII, figs.
39, 40.)
Without the branchiie the type specimen has a length of 25 mm., of which the thorax takes 5 mm., and is 2.5 mm.
in diameter; the detached branchia?
are 7.5 mm.
long.
A second specimen without branchiae is 23 mm.
long.
As the branchiae are detached some doubt attaches to them.
They are much twisted, with 15 pairs of rather short, thick radioles slightly coiled inward at the ends; the barbs are double-ranked, veiy close together, and have a nearly uniform length of 1.3 mm.
to the end of the radioles.
No eyes are visible.
The second radiole from the dorsum of the right side terminates in a membranous vesicle which is probably pathological, but which would act much like the operculum of Apomatus.
The branchial lobes are slightly involute ventrally.
The collar is stiff and erect, separated by the entire width of the body dorsally, but prolonged ventrally as a pair of abrupt prominent narrow lobes in contact at the base.
Except for very slight lateral emarginations the margin is entire.
The thoracic region is nearly terete, the abdominal somewhat depressed and of a uniform width except at the tapering caudal end.
There are 8 setigerous thoracic and 55 or 56 abdominal somites, mostly distinctly marked and uniannulate.
Thick and very distinct ventral plates occupy the neural third of the boch^ Those of the thorax are tmce as wide as long and undivided, except the first, or peristomial one, which is as wide as long and of a sugar-loaf shaped outline.
The first abdominal ])late is pentagonal, the others are divided into two equal squares by the fffical groove which is very distinct ventrally, but, after turning to the right in the fiu'row '^/ x, and bending forward on IX, disappears totally on the side of the latter below the setse.
There is no trace of the dorsal groove.
The setigerous and uncinigerous tori are strictlj' lateral and not elevated above the general surface of the body; the latter diminish in size caudally.
The body cavity is filled with rather large eggs.
All of the setse (PI.
XI, fig.
1) are of the winged capillary type, but differ considerably in length, slenderness and width of the wing.
They are very nearly straight, ver}^ acute, and, although obliquely striated, the wings have entire margins.
Both avicular and pick-shaped micini occur on the thoracic, the former only on abdominal somites.
Their number is alwa5^s small — e.g., 27 of each on III, 21 on VI, and 20 on Vm, while never more than 18 of the avieukie only occur on abdominal somites.
In both regions they rapidly diminish in size from the end of the tori nearest to the setae, the smallest in the abdominal tori not exceeding ^ the size of the largest.
In the thoracic region the same statement applies to the pick-shaped hooks.
The thoracic avicular uncini (fig.
39) have elongated bodies, about eciualling the elevated neck and head, the posterior process slender and produced, and the breast small, but abrupt and strongly convex.
The neck meets the body nearty at a right angle, is high and erect, and curves broadly and regularly into the stout tapering beak \\dthout any distinct enlargement into head or crest.
The crest is represented by a fine striation near the vertex without anv elevation or free teeth.
The sinus is very open with nearty straight parallel sides.
On the abdominal somites these iincini (fig.
40) differ in the much reduced posterior I^rocess, the deeper, more sloping breast and the more wedge-shaped sinus.
The figure is, however, somewhat foreshortened.
The smaller imcini (fig.
2) have a peculiar form, which is transitional between the avicular and the usual pick-shaped uncini.
The slender stem or body is bent strongly and slightly thickened, but lacks a distinct breast.
The head is slightly enlarged with a very short, stout, slightly decurved beak and a prominent cap-like crest, much subdivided; from the base of the beak projects a slender angulated filament.
In the form of the small uncini this species departs widely from the typical Sabellce.
Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms.
Type and one other.
Potamilla acuminata n. sp.
(PI.
XI, figs.
3-6; PI.
XII, fig.
41.)
This species is elongated and slender, a complete example having a total length of 56 mm., of which the branchise are 20 mm.
and the thorax 5 mm., the diameter being 1.9 mm.
The branchiffi are more than ^ of the total length, and when retracted into the tube are not at all or very slightly twisted and coiled.
Two specimens have 19 radioles on the right, 17 on the left, the other having 15 and 16 respectively.
They are straight, slender, of nearly uniform diameter, without eye-spots, and bear barbs nearly or quite to the tips in the dorsalmost radioles, but have a free end devoid of barbs and of considerable length in the ventral ones.
Most of the radioles are provided with a short membranous wing on the inner side of the base, but there is no trace of a connecting web.
The barbs have the usual biserial arrangement and equal or exceed the diameter of the body, with little diminution toward the distal end.
The bases are entirely simple.
The collar is scarcely evident dorsall}', but becomes prominent opposite to the dorsal setse line, just below which is a barely distinguishable fold.
On each side of the median ventral line is a broadly roiuided, flat, somewhat tliickened process, about as long as the first somite.
In the retracted specimens these overlap medially.
The entire ventral portion of the collar, except the ventral lobes, is extremely thin and delicate.
Between the bases of the branchise is a small roimded prostomial lobe, from which a broad folded memibrane extends laterally around the mouth and joins the bases of the branchise.
Connected with the inner side of the latter also are the so-called tentacles, consisting of a pair of processes about twice as long as the second somite, with the leaf-like basal part folded longitudinally to form a groove, and the terminal ^ attenuated.
The complete specimen has 8 setigerous thoracic and 68 abdominal somites.
The body is nearl}' terete throughout and has a nearly uniform diameter, except at the posterior end.
Anteriorly the parapodia are not at all elevated, but become rather prominent posteriorly.
Except the peristomeum all somites have sharply defined ventral plates.
In one specimen all, and in the others all but the first 8, are divided into 2 equal squares by a ventral groove.
The pygidium has the form of a slightly oblique welt-like fold, which bounds the anus dorsally and laterally.
The fsecal groove is well-marked ventrally from the anus to the somite IX, on which it passes caudad of the ventral plate to the right and then bends sharply forward and passes obliquely anterior to the seta bmidle to the dorsum, where it disappears.
All of the setae and uncini are of a pale glistening yellow color and have the arrangement usual in the genus.
The seta^ of II are all of the winged capillary type, but differ in length, width of wing and degree of curvature or bending.
The more slender and regularly curved ones are dorsal.
The 7 succeeding thoracic somites bear both ca]>illary in the dorsal and paddle-shaped setse in the ventral part of the bundles.
The former (fig.
3) have the characters just described, but the more ventral ones exhibit transitions toward the broad form in the tendency of the wing to widen and split into two divergent symmetrical plates.
The two kinds are, however, always distinct.
The paddle-shaped setse (fig.
5) are arranged in a short, close phalanx.
They have relatively stout, shghtly tapering, striated stems, with the short, broad wings together forming a thin ovate expansion which tapers distall}' into a mucronate tip, whose length equals the greatest Midth of the blade and which is bent out of the plane of the latter.
On the abdominal somites only capillary setae (fig.
4) again occur, and in graduallv diminishing number.
The more slender, elongated, nearly wingless ones are usually paired with shorter broader ones.
On the thoracic segments the uncinigerous tori are flush with the surface of the body and bear the two kinds of uncini in parallel vertical rows, the aviculae being anterior.
On somite III there are 44 of each, on VI 32, and a further reduced number on VIII.
The avicular uncini (fig.
41) have the slender posterior process aiid the erect portion equal and meeting at a right angle; the breast nearly hemispherical; the neck erect and straight; the beak moderately long, acute and straight.
and inclined sharply downward with the lower margin ])arallel to the breast; the crest elevated and much subdivided, with about .5 distinct teeth along the profile.
The pick-shaped imcini (fig.
6) are more characteristic.
They have slender, slightly curved stems, shghtly increasing in diameter toward the distal end, and exceed the total length of the avicular uncini.
The head is small, with a rounded back, and a short blunt beak, enclosed in a delicate and transparent hood, the base of which is often inflated, and the distal part prolonged at right angles to the stem into an exceedingly delicate and attenuated process, which, though varying considerably in length, always much exceeds the length of the head of the avicular uncini.
The latter only occur on the abdomidal somites, where they form short vertical series of from 12 to 18.
Except that the upper outline of the breast is more sloping, they have exactly the form of the thoracic ones.
In the form of its setse this species closely resembles Sahella {Pota■milla?)
assimilis Mcintosh, but the pick-shaped uncini of that species have not been described.
It was dredged by the Challenger in 600 fathoms off Buenos Ayres.
It also agrees fairly well with the Potamilla torelli of Marenzeller and Langerhans, but not with JMalmgren's original description.
The tube is circular and tortuous, of a tough cartilaginous consistency, covered evenly with very fine sand and has a clear line, evidently of attachment, along one side.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms., 2 specimens and fragments of a third, with tubes.
Hypsicomus lyra n. sp.
(PI.
XI, figs.
7-13; PI.
XII, fig.
42.)
The type is very long and slender, having a total length of 84 mm., the thorax 6 mm.
and the gills 20 mm.
; the diameter is 1.6 mm.
As seems to be usual in the genus, the basal lobes of the gills are quite prominent, about equalhng the length of the first 3 somites, and their somewhat membranous dorsal and ventral margins overlap in the middle line.
The distal end is strietl}^ transverse and even, so that the radioles all arise from the same level.
The radioles are long, slender, straight, not winged, and united by a web for the basal |.
The double-ranked barbs are very numerous, slender and long, their length about equalhng the diameter of the bod}^, l^ut diminishing somewhat before the short, naked tip of the radiole is reached.
A conspicuous zone of reddish-brown eye-spots occupies about the third -^-^ of the branchiae, though they exhibit much irregularity in arrangement, and seldom occupy this entire distance on individual radioles.
Each radiole bears a series on each outer luargin, but the number varies from 5 to 20 or more, and they may be widely separated, jnuch crowded or 11 even coalesced.
They also vary much in size, and the two series on a radiole are seldom symmetrical.
The collar is simple, cleft, but in contact and slightly inturned dorsomedially.
The dorsal half is low, of an even height, and has a shghtly wavy margin.
The ventral half rises very gradually to the apex of the triangular lobes which nearly meet in the middle line l^ut diverge distally.
There are no lateral incisions.
A pair of prominent tentacles are united with the middle of the inner face of the undivided base of the palpi.
They rise freeh' to a length exceeding that base, and consist of a foliaceous proximal ^, and a narrow ligulate distal |.
Besides these a pair of minute processes occur side by side on the middle of the head disk, and probably represent the true prostomial tentacles.
The 174 to 184 somites, of which S are thoracic, form a slender, elongated body, terete anteriorly, but very strongly arched above and with a sole-like ridge formed by the ventral plates in the posterior part.
The lozenge-shaped anus is situated in a small pygidium.
In the thoracic region the segments are longer and distinct ; in the abdominal they are very short and posteriorly much crowded.
Here the body walls are very thin and distended by the w^ell-filled intestine.
The ventral plates of the thoracic region are not elevated above the general surface, but occupy the entire area between the tori.
Thej^ are separated from each other l)y deep transverse grooves, and the first from the peristomial collar by a deep brown or black, apparently chitinous line.
The first is about 4 times as broad as long, the second 3 times, and the others not over 1^ times.
The first al^dominal plate is about f as long as the last thoracic, the second is polygonal, and the others become successively shorter to the caudal end and form a deeply pigmented, narrow, sole-like ridge, divided from the anterior margin of the third one to the anus by the faecal groove.
The facal groove divides the ventral plates continuously to the posterior margin of somite X, around which and IX it passes obliquely to the right, and then along the middle of the dorsum of the thoracic segments, on Avhich, however, it is very faint.
Dense tufts of setie occupy the dorsal portion of the setigerous tori on II to VIII inclusive, and smaller tufts of very prominent setse project from the ventral side of those of all abdominal somites.
On somite I are two setigerous lines shaped like the sides of a lyre, which begin wdth a just perceptible curve slightly dorsad of the succeediiig tuft of seta?, and diverge oljliquely forward in a nearly straight line to the base of the collar, on which they extend as an intiu-ned loop of very minute setse.
The thoracic uncinigerous tori are strictly vertical, and ventral to the setaj, and occupy an area on each side about equal to the ventral plates.
The abdominal tori are dorsal to the setse and quite short.
On somite I the collar setse are arranged in a double series along each line.
Those of the dorsalmost series (fig.
8) are stouter, nearly straight, and are terminated by an elongated conical hood or sheath more or less inflated at the base, and usually bent or wavy in the slender distal half.
They are evidently intermediate in structure between the pickshaped uncini and limbate setse.
Those of the ventralmost series (fig.
7) are more slender, sharply curved at the end, and provided on the convex side with a short but broad obliquely striated wing.
The remaining thoracic somites contain curved limbate setse in the dorsal part of the fascicles and paddle-shaped spatulate setse ventrally.
The former (fig.
9) present no noteworthy features.
The latter are arranged in close double file, those of the cephalic file (fig.
10) being stouter with , very broad, truncate, usually more or less asymmetrical blades; those of caudal (fig.
11) row have nearly circular blades, which usually bear a smooth-edged mucronate tip as long as or slightly longer than the blade.
In the abdominal fascicles are 2 or 3 slender, nearly or quite wingless capillary setse, and a small number of paddle-shaped setse (fig.
12), with small ovoid blades and a' prominent, stout, fringed terminal process 2 or 3 times as long.
There are about 60 of each kind of uncini in the thoracic rows beginning with II.
The avicular form (fig.
42) has the base straight, much prolonged posteriorly, and with a small rounded breast.
From the base the short, somewhat tapering neck inclines forward at an angle of about 120°.
There is no enlarged head, but the vertex is high, prominent and narrow, with the rather short, straight conical beak bent down at a sharp angle.
The crest is scarcely difterentiated, the front of the vertex being only faintly striated and not at all subdivided.
Pick-shaped uncini (fig.
13) are well differentiated and regularly paired with the larger ones.
They have straight, column-like stems, and hollow sheath-like heads (sometimes slightly inflated), running into slender, tapering processes nearly at right angles to the stem.
The abdominal uncini are fewer, smaller, and have longer necks than the thoracic avicular uncini, but are otherwise c^mte similar.
The tube is slightly sinuous, nearly roimd in section and about 2.3 mm.
in diameter.
It has a peculiar tough horny texture, is thinwalled and deep brown or almost black.
From H. phwatccnia (Schmarda) Marenzeller this species differs especially in the presence of mucronate paleee in the thoracic tori and in the greater number of setae and palese in the abdominal somites, as well as in the form of the palea and pick-shaped uncini and the arrangement of the eyes.
Sm-uga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms., 4 specimens, with tubes.
Dasychone japonica Mcintosh.
The specimens have a length of 40 mm., the branchiae being 13.
There are 8 setigerous thoracic and 76 abdominal somites and 28 to 30 branchial plumes.
With the exception of occasional variations having a second small accessory tooth, the uncini are exactly as figured by Mcintosh.
The tentacles are lanceolate, + the length of the branchiae and thickly spotted ^\^th reddish-browm.
Two specimens, one in a membranous tube to which various foreign bodies are attached, from an imknown station.
The first dorsal appendage of each branchial radiole is fully twice as long as and much thicker than any of the others, and is single, and not paired, as the others are.
The collar begins dorsally as a prominent lobe, which includes the first fascicle of setae; ventrally it is thickened and the ventral lobes overlap medially for nearly their entire width.
There are no lateral incisions.
Laonome tridentata n. sp.
(PI.
XII, fig.
44.)
The type and only specimen is 44 mm.
long without branchiae, which are 9 mm.
in length; the thorax is 7 mm.
long and 4 mm.
diameter.
The detached branchiae found in the same bottle are not known with absolute certainty to belong to this species.
The basal part of each palp forms an undivided plate about twice the length of the peristomium and of a scroll-like form with a slightly spiral roll.
Each bears 15 rather thick short radioles not exceeding twice the diameter of the thorax.
The longest barbs or filaments at the base have a length equaUing about ^ of the body diameter, and they diminish toward the end, where the radiole terminates in a slender naked filament longer than the longest barbs.
There are no eyes.
The peristomial collar is about as long as the second somite, slightly more produced on the ventral side and consequently somewhat oblique.
It is deeply cleft in the middle line dorsally and slightly so ventrally, but without lateral incisions.
It is thick and stift^, with the margin entire and slightly produced, but not lobed ventrally.
There are 8 setigerous thoracic and 62 abdominal somites.
The body is slightly flattened, with a nearly uniform width, tapering somewhat toward the posterior end, where it terminates in a slightly oblique pygidiiim with a somewhat ventral anus.
The peristomium and the base of the collar are dusky with numerous minute spots, which continue also on to the sides of several of the succeeding somites.
No distinct ventral plates are developed, but the entire body wall appears to be somewhat glandularly thickened.
Throughout the abdominal region the fascal groove is very narrow but distinct.
Reaching the ventral middle line of IX it bends to the right and passes obliquely across that segment to the level of the setffi, then in the furrow VIII / IX for a short distance, and obliquely across the dorsum of VIII to its anterior border at the dorsal middle line, from which point it continues forward, becoming very deep on II and I, and finally disappears in the dorsal collar cleft.
The thoracic setigerous tubercles are quite prominent and the uncinigerous tori very long, the most anterior ones nearly meeting ventrally and the posterior not much shorter.
The abdominal tori are about ^ as long as the anterior thoracic.
The setas occur in strong tufts, but all are broken short off at the body surface.
A few fragments of the terminal parts indicate that they are short and stout, with broad blades distinctly denticulated on the margins.
Both thoracic and abdominal somites bear rather large uncini, all of one kind and arranged in a single series.
A torus on somite V contains 112, all of one size; on the abdominal somites they are about f as large, and 41 were counted on somite XI.
They have the form (fig.
44) represented by Malmgren for the type of the genus and quite unlike that figured by Marenzeller for his Laonome japonica.
The base is abruptly truncated posteriorly, nearly continuing the direction of the posterior line of the neck, but is produced anteriorly into a remarkably prominent breast that reaches beyond the tip of the beak.
A short, thick, erect neck is surmoimted by a scarcely enlarged head with a prominent, acute, slightly recurved beak nearly parallel with the opposite border of the breast, from which it is separated by a sinus much narrower than the diameter of the neck; the elevated crest is composed of 3 or rarely of 4 very distinct, acute, solid teeth of diminishing size.
Suruga Bay, 3,707, type only, without tube.
Euchone alicaudata n. sp.
(PI.
XI, figs.
14-16; PI.
XII, fig.
43.)
The single example was taken from a tube and is regularly rounded and of equal diameter, with the somites very indistinctly indicated, except at the caudal end, where the body is flattened and tapers abruptly.
The total length is 38 mm., the thorax 6.5 mm., and the branchia 13 mm.
There are eight setigerous thoracic and twenty-five abdominal somites.
The thoracic and most of the abdominal somites are obscm-ely equally biannulate.
Ventral i3lates are confined to the thoracic segments and are divided into two equal parts by the transverse interannular furrows.
The last eight abdominal somites are more distinctly differentiated, and decrease rapidly in diameter to the short rounded pygidimn.
From them the broad caudal membrane arises just ventrad of the setffi, continuing anteriorly around the ventral surface nearly to the middle hne, but posteriorly spreading widely as a horizontal plate with a median emargination in which the pygidium lies.
The basal part of the membrane exhibits distinct metameric thickenings which disappear toward the margins.
The anus is situated slightly ventrad in a small slit, from which the very faint fsecal groove passes forward between the ventral cleft of the caudal membrane to the posterior margin of somite IX, where it turns to the left, passes obliquely across the side of this somite and disappears in front of the setigerous area, but reappears in the dorsal middle line of VIII and continues to the peristomium, where it turns slightly to the left and disappears finally on the collar.
The collar is ver}^ peculiar.
It is thin and rather high, its margin even all around, but, owing to the obliquity of the peristomium due to the prolongation forward of its ventral plate, the height of the collar appears to be about twice as great dorsally as ventrally.
The median ventral part is injured so that the character of the ventral lobes cannot be ascertained.
Laterally at the level of the sides of the ventral plates is an abrupt thinning, folded in the form of a little niche terminating at the base in a minute pit; but there is no actual incision.
Dorsally a somewhat similar condition exists, each half of the collar being adherent to the median line by a very delicate membranous fold, so that no actual cleft is present, The fold of the right side overlaps the left broadly, and thus deflects the end of the feecal groove toward the latter side.
No eyes nor otocysts are visible on either the peristomium or pygidium.
As indicated by the measurements the branchice are relatively elongated, contributing about ^ of the total length.
The basal lobes are exceedingly short and are entirel}^ concealed Avithin the collar.
There are 15 branchial radioles on each side, arranged strictly in one row and of equal length.
They show no tendency to coil or twist.
The radioles of each half are connected for ^ of their length by a delicate membrane, to which they stand in the relation of the ribs to the cover of an umbrella, and which is continued as a delicate wing, especially wide on the most dorsal and ventral member of each group, along each radiole and expands at their ends into a leaf-like appendage, through which the naked end of the radiole passes like a mid-rib, and l^eyond which it forms a short mucronatc tip.
The filaments present the usual paired arrangement and are numerous and exceedingly long, the length of the basal ones being at least 1^ times the diameter of the thoracic segments.
Besides the ordinary filaments a number of very mucli larger ones occur within the radioles, one apparently being attached to the base of each of several of the latter.
Though none is perfect, they often equal ^ of the length of the radioles.
As they bear slight wings and have distinct cartilaginous axes, they probably represent a second set of naked radioles.
The region is so brittle that a thorough study of the specimen is impossible.
The tentacles are apparent!}'
short ovate-lanceolate in shape.
Very small eggs completely fill the body cavity.
The setse of the first thoracic fascicle and the abdominal somites are apparently all slender, winged capillary, those on the latter with extremely narrow wings.
On the other thoracic somites there are two forms; distinguished by the breadth of the wings and not always to be sharply separated.
Those in a dorsal group (fig.
14) have slender, longitudinally striated shafts, more or less bent and drawn out to a very fine tip, the winged margin fringed, confined to one side, of varying width and reaching far out toward the end of the shaft.
Those of a ventral group (fig.
15) are shorter, stouter, with short, broad, usually asymmetrical, obliquely striated double wings and an acuminate tip.
The internal structure is similar to the more slender setee.
The thoracic uncini (fig.
16), which are arranged in single rows, have long, slender, curved stems with a slight shoulder at the surface of the body and beyond it a neck; the head has a long, rather slender, slightly recurved beak and a crest from which three larger spines are separated on each side below, the rest being finely divided.
The abdominal uncini (fig.
43) are truncate behind, somewhat as in Laonome, but with a slightly produced process ; the breast is both high and prominent with a nearlj^ square anterior margin ; the sinus is very small ; and the beak acute, surmounted by a crest exhibiting 6 or 7 teeth of diminishing size along the profile.
The somewhat horny, stiff tube is covered with coarse sand grains and minute bits of shell.
Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms., type only.
Protula geniculata sp.
nov. (PI.
XI, figs.
17, IS; PI.
XII, fig.
38.)
The tAvo specimens upon which this species is founded were taken from the tubes, and are consequent!
}^ in a rather poor state of preservation and altered in shape by the constraint.
Except for the flattened and tapering caudal end the form is completely terete and the thoracic membrane is wrapped closely about the body.
Following are the measurements of the type : Total length, 27 mm.
; branchite, 5 mm.
; thorax, 5.5 mm., and diameter of thorax, 1.2 mm.
Branchiae remain in the type specimen only, and are so fragile that a complete study is impossible.
Their bases are short and simple, concealed by the collar ventrally but exposed dorsally.
The radioles number about 18 on each side, arise strictly in one row, although in the retracted condition some of the dorsalmost ones are turned inward and spirally twisted, so that they appear partly in a double row.
Most of the radioles are rounded in section, Init the dorsalmost one on each side is flattened.
There is no basal web.
At the base of the radioles the barbs are as long as one-half of the diameter of the thorax, but become gradually shorter toward the tip, where they leave naked a filamentous portion of the radiole about as long as the basal barbs.
There is no operculum.
The strictly ventral collar is produced directly forward to a length about equal to an anterior thoracic somite ; the margin is smooth and entirely without trace of any folds or incisions and with short rounded lateral lobes.
The thoracic membrane is rather prominent and produced anteriorly beyond the collar, but not overlapping its lateral lobes.
Dorsally the two sides overlap considerably in the middle line, and are thrown into deep oblique folds at each somite, owing to the stowing of a large surface within the small space of the tube.
Posteriorly they reach beyond the last thoracic somite and join in a closely appressed ventral fold covering the first abdominal somite below.
There are sev'en setigerous thoracic somites and seventy abdominal somites.
The bundles of thoracic seta are all at the same level and of similar size; the uncinigerous tori are short, equal and widely separated ventrally on all somites.
The sides of the thoracic somites between them are transversely wrinkled.
On the abdominal region the anterior tori are nearer the dorsal than the ventral side, but posteriorly they are strictly lateral.
At the posterior end the body is beveled toward the dorsal side and is provided with low lateral ridges, but no distinct caudal membrane.
Dorsally this flattened region bears a narrow but thick shield plate which tapers to an acute point anteriorly and is partly metameric.
It occupies about 20 somites and is white and chalky in appearance.
In another specimen this plate is less attenuated anteriorly.
The body throughout is much tinged with reddishorange which was probably the natural color.
All of the thoracic setre are of the limbate type with rather short narrowh^ lanceolate ends, especially slender on those of the smaller collar tuft; all are colorless, very slight!
}^ curved and of more uniform size than usual.
The abdominal, except at the caudal end, bear two geniculate setse (fig.
38) on each side.
They are transparent and colorless, with broad, short, A'ery thin and pointed blades, bent nearly at right angles to the shaft, and which appear to have the margin perfectly smootli.
On the caudal somites the sette occur in tufts of three, but occasionally two; they are long, slender, capillary, tapering and curved, but wingless at the tip.
The uncini are relatively small, very delicate, and much crowded, with about 26 distinct and some smaller obscure teeth, all strongly bent downward and overlapping.
The upper part of the toothbearing margin with the larger teeth rises prominently above the body of the vmcinus.
The thoracic micini (fig.
18) have the body quach'ate with the truncate lower margin on a level with the elongated lower tooth, while the abdominal uncini (fig.
17) have nearly triangular bodies with the somewhat angulatcd margin not nearly reaching to the end of the long tooth.
This tooth is really a projection of the body of the uncinus and itself bears a fringe of fine teeth on its basal half.
Two nearly complete tubes are present in the collection.
They were evidently attached at the base only, with the greater part upright and straight or slightly sinuous, gradually increasing in diameter, perfectly terete, the walls thick, porcellaneous, with a thin, somewhat rough, chalky surface marked with distinct lines of growth, but without any ridges or other special sculpturing.
Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms., 2 specimens.
Vermilia ctenophora n. sp.
(PI.
XII, figs.
21-25.)
A complete example has a total length of 27 mm., the operculum 6.5 mm., gills 5.7 mm., and thorax 5 mm.
An incomplete specimen is larger.
The branchife are considerably contracted and very compactly packed into the tube, without any trace of a spiral twist.
The undivided base is relatively prominent, composing about ^ of the total length of the gill.
Wlien the branchiae are retracted the distal margin is decidedly oblique and much longer ventrally.
Radioles 20 on each side, in the contracted state folded by the doublinoof the base dorsad into an inner and an outer series, the barbs of wliich face each other.
The radioles are thick and short, with a short, thick, finger-hke termination lacking barbs, and in one specimen, not enclosed in a t\ibe, are curled inward at the ends.
There are no branchial eyes.
Except near the end, where they become shorter, the barbs have a length of about f the diameter of the thorax and are numerous and crowded.
Three or four of the dorsalmost radioles each bear at the base a larger barb, about 3 times as thick as the ordinary ones and somewhat longer.
Near the median line and at a somewhat more dorsal level is the pair of tentacles of similar form but somewhat stouter.
A membranous fold encircles the base of the gills within and surrounds the mouth.
The last three features were clearly made out on the incomplete specimen only, not on the type.
The operculum (figs.
21, 21a) is dorsal antl dextral.
It has a slender, ■wi'inkled, somewhat flattened stalk very slightly broader at the distal end and without wings or membranous margins.
The body of the operculum is broadly egg-shaped, the basal f with soft non-chitinous walls somewhat longitudinally folded, the distal f a smooth, bro\An and firm chitinous dome with a narrow thickened double ring at the base and the surface with traces of a rough calcareous incrustation.
In the type the stalk measures 4 mm.
in length, .7 mm.
in diameter, and the body is 2.5 mm.
long and 2 mm.
thick.
On the larger specimen these measurements are respectively 4.5, .7, 2.5 and 2 mm.
On the type the collar and thoracic membrane are closely folded about the body from contact with the tube, but evidently fully agree with the following description, based on their expanded state in the larger cotype.
The collar is produced directly forward for a distance of 1 mm.
from the prostomium for the entire width of the space between the ventral margins of the setigerous tubercles.
At the sides short round lobes are produced, but there are no other processes and no clefts.
The thoracic membrane extends as a broad modulating fold from the first to the fifth torus inclusive, overlapping its fellow medially, the lateral margin of the collar anteriorly, and the sixth torus caudally.
The first setigerous tubercle is included in the base of the thoracic membrane; the others form, with the uncinigerous tori, freely projecting flaps which increase in size and prominence from the second caudally, the last being especially large, nearly twice its predecessor, and almost reaching the median line ventrally, while dorsally it partly covers and conceals the, in this case, detached setae tuft.
The body is slightly flattened and tapers to the caudal end, where the nearly terminal or slightly ventral anus occupies a notch.
A thickened dorsal shield plate, of a pink color and elongated elliptical form, occupies about 26 somites.
There are in all 7 setigerous thoracic and about 100 abdominal somites, though the number could not be 'accurately determined, owing to an injury to the only complete specimen.
The thoracic setse present the same general features as in V. pluriannulata, but are throughout more slender, delicate and acute, and have narrower wings; the number of nearly or quite wingless ones is also greater.
Throughout the greater part of the abdominal region l3ut two setsB (fig.
23) occur in each bundle.
These are delicate, colorless and of the same type as in V. pluriannulata, but have narrower, less angulated and less curved blades, which in the case of one is almost perfectly straight.
The arrangement and form of the thoracic uncini (fig.
24) is also A^ery close in the two species, the chief difference being that in this the teeth are usually 15 in number and exhibit a more exact alignment with the basal plate.
Very often a minute tooth occurs on the basal plate just below the large truncate tooth, and the overlapping of the latter by the preceding tooth is often very marked.
Abdominal "uncini (fig.
25) differ still less, but the number of acute teeth is 11-13.
The caudal setae are all broken short off.
Only a small piece of the tube is present.
It is thicker than that of Vermilia pluriannulata, measures 3 mm.
in diameter at the mouth, which is broken, and 2.5 mm.
at the opposite end.
The single flange present extends only halfway around the tube on the free side, but is very prominent and flaring.
The surface of the tube is marked by rough transverse lines of growth with a slightly spiral turn, and on the flange section onl}^ by 5 rough longitudinal ribs.
Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms., 2 specimens with fragments of tubes.
Vermilia pluriannulata sp.
nov. (PL XII, figs.
26-32, 45; PL XI, fig.
19.)
The single example from which this species is described measures: Total length, 1 9 mm.
; branchiae, 4.5 mm.
; thorax, 3 mm., and diameter, 2.4 mm.
The branchiae are in bad condition, but show 19 radioles on each side, w^hich are shorter and have relatively longer and more slender naked tips than in V. ctenophora.
The operculum is developed from the left dorsal branchial radiole, and the stalk and body each measure 2.5 mm.
long.
The former is of nearly uniform diameter, very slightly depressed and marked with numerous transverse wrinkles, as though in contraction.
The body (figs.
26, 27, 28) is broadly elliptical in face views, but in profile shows a nearly parabolic ventral and a slightly convex dorsal outline.
It is divided into two nearly equal halves, the proximal of which is soft and longitudinally wTinkled, with a delicate ehitinous enclosing membrane, the distal very firm and ehitinous, marked by 6 very narrow dark ehitinous annular thickenings which have a slightly excentric arrangement, as a result of which they are much crowded dorsally and more widely separated ventrally, leaving a nearly circular, slightly excentric, convex, pale-colored terminal disk.
Probably the entire distal half, with the exception of this disk, was originally covered with a calcareous coat; rough fragments of such an incrustation remain especially on the ventral surface.
The collar is higher and its lateral lobes more prolonged than in V. ctenophora, but is otherwise similar.
The thoracic membrane is also similar, but much higher, fully equalling the dorsal distance between the setae tufts.
As in V. ctenophora its base ends at the fifth seta tuft, but a free lobe projects much beyond this to the seventh.
There are 7 setigerous thoracic and about 110 abdominal somites, the posterior ones very short and much crowded.
For most of its length the body is nearly terete, but at the posterior end is slightly depressed and tapering.
The extreme caudal end is slightly curved ventrad, so that the anus looks downward and is somewhat covered by the posterior margin of the dorsal plate.
The latter is much thickened and of an ovate form, covering about 25 somites with the Inroad end tow^ard the head.
The thoracic setse are numerous, except in the collar fascicle, and form conspicuous pale yellow tufts.
Those of the first fascicle are mostly wingless or nearly so, the limbate ones being more slender and with the wings narrower than usual in succeeding tufts.
On the succeeding thoracic somites the number of wingless setse is much reduced, and most of them (figs.
29 and 30) are stouter and distinctly limbate on the convex side and, while differing considerably in length, curvature and breadth of wing, they have the wings const antl}^ wider and more dehcately striated than in V. ctenophora.
With the exception of those near the caudal end each abdominal fascicle bears but three colorless setse (fig.
31) with slender stems and rather broad but exceedingly thin and delicate blades.
The ends are tapering and curved, with a distinct angle at the base of the convex side, which is fringed for f of its length.
These setse are always stouter, more angulated and less distinctly fringed than those of Vermilia ctenophora, and the 3 exhibit a closer similarity of form and size.
A number (about 25) of the segments at the caudal end bear tufts of 4 or 5 long, slender, colorless capillary setse of a quite different form (fig.
45).
They about equal or exceed the body diameter, are strongly directed ventrad, and for the greater part of their length they are gently, and near the tip more sharply, curved; and here are also flattened and provided with a delicate wing, beyond which they taper to an acute point.
The tori of somite III contain about 90 uncini and more posterior thoracic somites a much greater number.
They are rather large trapezoidal plates (fig.
32), coarsely striated transversely.
The pectinate margin bears 14 or occasionally 13 acute teeth, of which the 4th, 5th and 6th are the largest, the upper ones becoming shorter and the lower or cephalic ones especially more slender, the former more hooked, and the latter straighter but more imbricated and appressed, and the last 2 or 3 successively wider, flatter and more curved in the transverse plane.
The last tooth is much larger, tubular and truncate, and in man}^ cases is more or less closely embraced by the preceding one.
The anterior abdominal tori bear about 20, the caudal ones as many as 50 uncini (fig.
19), which are only about h as long and much more delicate than the thoracic ones which they resemble closely in form.
The apical offset from the plate is more prominent, the number of teeth usually 13 or sometimes 12, and the truncate tooth is more closely embraced by the one next to it than in the thoracic uncini.
Fragments of the tube are 3.5 mm.
in diameter at the mouth, 2 mm.
in diameter at a distance of 30 mm.
from the mouth.
Externally they are marked by a series of wide flaring flanges, sometimes completely encircling the tube, sometimes coalescent with it or incomplete on one side.
The surface is marked by a varying number of delicate but rough, undulating parallel longitudinal ridges about .7 mm.
apart, the number being usually limited to about 6, confined to one, but not always the same, side.
On the free flaring portions of the flanges these ridges become broken into flat spines, many of which are arranged transversely.
Suruga Bay, 3,713, 45 fms., type and portions of tube.
Pomatostegus latiscapus Marenzeller.
Two specimens of a Pomatostegus agree closely with Marenzeller's description of all parts except perhaps the collar, concerning which it is simply stated that it is produced directly forward and has no lateral incisions.
In the Albatross specimens the collar has a very irregular and ragged border, with a long median ventral process and somewhat smaller dorso-lateral processes at the level of the setse; but no actual incisions.
The setse and operculum agree perfectly.
In one specimen the operculum bears 4, in the other 7 platforms, and in the latter is completely enveloped in a growth of sponge which forms a spherical mass fitting the lumen of the tube.
Suruga Bay, 3.707, 63-75 fms.
; 3.740, 65 fms.
Pomatoceros auritubis sp.
nov. (PI.
XII, figs.
33-37; PI.
XI, fig.
20.)
This species is known only from a single specimen without tube which measures IS.
5 mm.
in total length, of which the gills are 6 mm., the operculum nearly 7 mm., and the very short thorax, without the collar, 2.5 mm.
The branchiae have 26 radioles on each side, and each half is rolled inward in a somewhat scroll-hke fashion clorsally and ventrally.
The radioles are somewhat thick and are terminated by a short filament free from barbs, the basal ones of which are about ^ the length of the radioles, A tolerably well-developed web connects the basal f of the radioles.
The operculum (figs.
33, 34, 35) is developed from the dorsalmost left radiole.
Its stalk is broad and flat with prominent lateral wings extending its entire length and increasing in wddth to the distal end, where they terminate in narrow, pointed processes embracing the sides of the opercular body.
The stalk is attached excentrically to the dorsal side of the body of the operculum, which is bent strongly ventrad.
The body is hemispherical with somewhat flaring margins, and bears by a short thick stalk on its distal face a membranous circular concave plate with broad, thin, flaring margins, and a low, slightly rounded central eminence.
There are no spines, but two slight marks may be the scars of attachment of a pair.
The free margins of the disk are chitinoid, l^ut there is but little indication of calcareous infiltration, the body of the operculum having about the consistency of a rather soft cartilage.
The collar is high and prominent, about equalling the length of the first two somites.
Laterally it begins at the level of the first setse tufts in a pair of lobes which are much overlapped by the dorsal membrane.
Its margin is much folded and serrated, finely on the dorsal, coarsely on the ventral part, and in the median ventral region is produced forward as a slender lanceolate lobe, but is nowhere deeply incised.
The thoracic membrane is low posteriorly, with a very delicate ventral fold, but becomes high anteriorly wdth the dorso-anterior angle thrown into a tuft of folds and overlapping the lateral collar lobes.
The anterior pair of thoracic setse tufts are widely separated from the others, embedded in the thoracic membrane and project forward.
Succeeding setigerous and uncinigerous tori of the thoracic region are at first placed at a high level, but sink lower and lower until on the last thoracic somite the latter are entirelv on the ventral side aiid much inclined forwarcV and inward.
The last two especially have their ventral ends entirely free, and those of the last meet in the middle line.
The ventral plates, which are included in the area between the tori, consequently form a nearly equilateral triangle with the apex caudad.
All of the abdominal somites are short and crowded, especially posteriorly, and no caudal plate or membrane is developed.
The anus is terminal.
No pigment remains in the specimen.
Somite I bears a compact slender tuft of pale, ghstening, lanceolate, limbate setse.
They differ considerably in length, width of wing and curvature, but all have the margins very distinctly serrated.
On the other thoracic somites the setse are of the same form, but the wings are generally shorter and broader, the bmidles less compact and more spreading, and more distinctly arranged in tw^o rows, one of larger, the other of smaller setse.
Abdominal somites generally bear three delicate colorless setae of the form shown in fig.
36.
They are apparently not trumpet-shaped, but spatulate, with one angle of the flattened end prolonged obliquely into a conspicuous spine upon which the dehcate teeth are continued.
The stems are delicately longitudinally striated.
The posterior abdominal sette are all broken off.
The thoracic uncinigerous lines begin at the seta tufts and are rather long, that of somite II containing a few more than 200 uncini, which decrease in size toward the ventral end.
Abdominal tori contain little more than | as many.
The uncini are delicate pectinate plates.
Those of the thoracic somites (fig.
37) have quadrate plates bearing 13-15 strongly decurved, very acute teeth; the lowermost scoop-tooth is broad, opens toward the uncinial plate and projects freely beyond the lower margin of the latter.
Abdominal uncini (fig.
20) are about •i as large and have only 11 or 12 acute teeth besides the scoop-like one, and the plate is triangular, with its lowermost angle produced into a process about j as long as the lowermost tooth.
Suruga Bay, 3,713, 45 fms., type only, without tube.
The Spirorbes in the collection w^ere submitted for study to Miss Katharine J. Bush, of the Yale University Museum, who has kindly furnished the following descriptions: Spirorbis argutas Bush sp.
nov. Tube coiled in a low discoid sinistral form with large central cavity, spreading around the base in a thin layer, the whorls radially enlarging and ornamented by one large median keel which renders the surface on each side slightly concave, all crossed by distinct transverse lines.
Smaller specimen about 1 mm.
in diameter; larger^ about 1.5 mm.
176 [Jan..
Fig.
a. S. argutus, operculum mounted in gh^cerine.
Branchiae too much matted to determine their number.
Operculum (fig.
a) a thin transparent elongated membranous bulb, flat on top and protected by a thin calcareous disk slightly thickened in the center, borne on a long, very slender peduncle.
Thorax with three fascicles of setae and two rows of uncini on each side.
All the setae simple tapered blades (fig.
b), so small and delicate as not to be clearly seen under a 7 objective, showing no serrations on the edge of the blade even under y"^ oil immersion.
Uncini very narrow, hnear, the teeth appearing as but slight roughnesses on the surface, even under the highest power.
Abdominal uncini in the first series or segment not appreciably smaller than those on the thorax; setae not found.
Two specimens on one of the red algae with the following (S. jo-raminosus), at Station 3,730. in 34 fathoms, May 16, 1900.
Spirorbis foraminosus Bush sp.
nov. Tube coiled in a similar manner to that of S. argutus, but in the opposite direction, and larger, with the surface ornamented with three distinct carinae, the middle one the most prominent, the surface on each side, or the interspaces, slightly concave and punctured by minute holes or foramina, apparently caused by the erosion of the thin epidermal layer; the immature forms probably having the entire surface crossed by numerFigb. ous prominent transverse lines.
Branchiae, the number of which is not determined, are long and folded about, partially covering or protecting the large operculum (figs, c and d), which is in the form of an elongated (apparenth' stiffened b}a very thin deposit of Hme) cylinder-like broodpouch filled with eggs ; the end protected by a calcareous disk with flaring edge and an inner enlarged basal portion, showing the length of the ventral area attached posteriorly to the secondary calcareous disk on the end of the operculum proper, which is formed of many longitudinal muscles spreading S. argutus, seta from 3d thoracic somite.
1904.]
177 from a short peduncle, which is apparently differentiated from the longitudinal ventral muscular layer of the body-wall and separated from the branchial lobes.
Thoracic setae simple tapered blades with but little color in three fascicles on each side with two series of uncini.
Those on the collar (fig.
e) somewhat broader and less regularly tapered than the others; no odd ones found in the second or third bundles.
Uncini distinctly yellow or delicate horn-color with numerous fine teeth, clearly seen under a 7 objective, those on the abdomen much shorter and associated with a single similarly colored seta.
Two specimens on one of the red algae with S. argutus, at Station 3,730, in 34 fathoms.
May 16, 1900.
Figs, c and d. S. foraminosus, front and rear views of operculum, filled with eggs.
Fig.
c. S. foraminosus, seta from collar fascicle.
Spirorbis bellulus Bush sp.
nov. Tube small, regularly coiled, dextral, with small central cavity, the rounded whorls ornamented with three, sometimes four, unequal, rounded threads, the one on the summit being more prominent than the others.
Specimens from 1 to 1.5 mm.
in diameter.
Branchiae peculiarly developed, probably abnormal, broad, thin, flattened, with few pinnae.
Operculum (figs.
/ and g) on a very long peduncle, with somewhat squarish calcareous plate with deep erect thickened rim.
Setae (fig.
h) long and slender simple blades, similar in all the fascicles which are three on each side of the thorax with two series of uncini, those on the collar showing a few comparatively 12 Figs.
/ and g. S. bellulus, operculum, front and rear views.
178 [Jan., coarse serrations on edge, seen under a 7 objective, Uncini very narrow, the teeth too fine to determine.
Abdominal setse and uncini not seen.
Steamer Albatross, May 8, 1900, at Station 3,707, off the coast of Japan, in 63-75 fathoms.
Five specimens on fragments of mollusks and pebbles.
Spirorbis dorsatus Bush sp.
nov. Tube small, regularly coiled, dextral, differing from the preceding (S. bellulus) in having but one very prominent keel on the middle of the whorls, rendering the tube three-sided.
A small nematode worm and sand filled the tube, but no animal was found.
Three specimens were found with the preceding, at Station 3,707, in 63-75 fathoms.
As no animals were found, it is impossible to determine whether or not these tubes may not be the young of S. foraminosus.
Fig.
h. S. bellulus, seta from collar fascicle.
Explanation of Plates XI and XIT.
Plate XI, Fig.
1.
— Sabella japonica.
Slender lanceolate seta from ventral part of the fascicle of V, X 480.
Fig.
2.
— Sabella japonica.
Small imcinus from the dorsal part of the torus of V, X 480.
Figs.
3-6.
— Potamilla acuminata.
Fig.
3.
— Slender seta from dorsal part of VI, X 335.
Fig.
4.
— Face view of a slender seta from XL, X 335.
Fig.
5.
— Two views of a spatulate and mucronate seta from ventral part of VI, X 335.
Fig.
6.
— A pick-shaped uncinus from VI, showing a slender tip of about the average length, X 600.
Figs.
7-13.
— Hypsicomus lyra.
Fig.
7.
— Limbate seta from the ventral series of the collar fascicle, X 480.
Fig.
8.
— Hooded seta from the dorsal series of the same, X 480.
Fig.
9.
— Limbate seta from the dorsal part of V, X 335.
Fig.
10.
— Plain paddle-shaped seta from the ventral part of V, X 335.
Fig.
11.
— Mucronate paddle-shaped seta from the same, X 335.
Fig.
12.
— Bilimbate pointed seta from a posterior abdominal somite, X 335.
Fig.
13.
— Pick-shaped uncinus from VI, X 480.
Figs.
14, 15, 16.
— Euchone alicaudata.
Fig.
14.
— Outline of slender seta from the dorsal part of V, X 480.
Fig.
15.
— One of the more symmetrical broadly bilimbate setse from the ventral part of V, X 480.
Fig.
16.— A crochet from VI, X 480.
Fig.
17-18.
— Protula geniculata.
Abdominal and thoracic uncini respectively, X 800.
Fig.
19.
— Vermilia pluriannulata.
An abdominal uncinus, X 600.
Fig.
20.
— Pomatoceros auritubis.
An uncinus from the middle abdominal region, showing also the outlines of the front and back faces of the large gouge-shaped tooth, X 600.
Plate XII, Figs.
21 to 25.
— Vermilia ctenophora.
Figs.
21, 21a.
— Dorsal and lateral views respectively of operculum, X S. Fig.
22.
— An average limbate seta from VI, X 250.
Fig.
23.
— The smallest and most curved seta from an abdominal pair, X 440.
Fig.
24.
— Uncinus from V, X 440.
Fig.
25.
— An uncinus from the middle abdominal region, X 440.
Figs.
26 to 32.
— Vermilia pluriannulata.
Figs.
26, 27, and 28.
— Dorsal, ventral and lateral views respectively of the operculum, X 13.
Figs.
29 and 30.
— Long and short slender limbate setse from VI, X 250.
Fig.
31.
— The middle seta of the three on somite XXX, X 440.
Fig.
32.
— An uncinus from V, X 440.
Figs.
33 to 37.— Pomatoceros auritubis.
Figs.
33, 34, 35.
— Dorsal, ventral and lateral views respectively of the operculum, X 8.
Fig.
36.— Middle abdominal seta, X 440.
Fig.
37.— Uncinus from IV, X 440.
Fig.
38.
— Protula geniculata.
Seta from middle abdominal region, X 250.
Fig.
39.
— Sabella japonica.
Uncinus from dorsal part of VI, X 360.
Pig.
40.
— Sabella japonica.
Uncinus from ventral portion of a middle abdominal uncinus, X 250.
Fig.
41.
— Potamella acuminata.
Uncinus from VI, X 360.
Fig.
42.
— Hypsicomus lyra.
Uncinus from VI, X 360.
Fig.
43.
— Euchone alicaudata.
Uncinus from XXI, X 360.
Fig.
44.
— Laonome tridentata.
Uncinus from XVI, X 360.
Fig.
45.
— Vermilia pluriannulata.
End of a capillary caudal seta representing about \ of the exposed part, X 250.
180 proceedings of the academy of [feb., February 2.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Seventy-four persons present.
The death of Karl Zittel, a correspondent, January 5, was announced.
The Pubhcation Committee reported that the following communications had been received: "On the Germ Cells and the Embryology of Planaria simplissima Curtis," by N. M. Stevens (January 23).
"A Study of the Mammalian Genus Chilonycteris," by James A. G. Kehn (January 30).
Mr. H. Clay Bordex made a communication on the Moki Indians, their habits and customs, with special reference to their religious dances, (No abstract.)
The following were accepted for publication : A STUDY OF THE MAMMALIAN GENUS CHILONYCTERIS.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The following paper is the result of a study of an exceedingly interesting series of one hundred and three specimens, of which twentyfour w^ere preserved as skins, the remainder being in alcohol.
Of this representation forty-three were from the collection of the United States National Museum, thirty-six from that of the Biological Survey, eighteen from the American Museum of Natural History, and a smal but exceedingly important series from the collection of the Academy.
The author wishes to express his indebtedness to Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., of the United States National Museum, Dr. C. Hart IMerriam, of the Biological Survey, and Dr. J.
A. Allen of the American Museum of Natural History, for their kindness in securing and permitting the use of specimens from the collections under their charge.
CHILONYCTERIS Gray.
1839.
Chiloyiycteris Gray, Ann.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p. 4.
September, 1839.
Tjrpe — Chilonycteris MacLeayii Gray.
1840.
Chilonycteris Wagner, Suppl.
Schreber's Saugthiere, I, p. 448.
1840.
Lobostoma Gundlach, Archiv fiir Xaturgeschichte, VI, bd.
I, p. 357.
[Part.]
1843.
Chilonycteris Wagner, Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, IX, bd.
I, p. 367.
[Part.l 1843.
Chilonycteris Gray, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1843, p. 20.
1843.
Phyllodia Gray, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1843, p. 50.
Type— P%^ lodia parnellii Gray.
1850.
Chilonycteris Wagner, Abhandlungen Mathem.-Physik.
CI.
Akad.
Wissenschaften, Miinchen, V, p. 179.
[Part.]
1851.
Chilonycteris Gosse, Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica, p 326.
1854.
Chilonycteris Burmeister, Thiere Brasiliens, I, p. 74.
[Part.]
1855.
Chilonycteris Wagner, Suppl.
Schreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 677.
[Part.]
1861.
Chilonycteris Gundlach, Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin.
1861, p. 154.
1861.
Chilonycteris Tomes, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1861, p. 65.
1872.
Chilonycteris Peters, Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 359.
1878.
Chilonycteris Dobson, Catal.
Chiropt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 447.
[Part.]
1879.
Chilonycteris Alston, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 34.
[Part.]
1880.
Chilonycteris Dobson, Rep. Brit.
.\sso.
Adv.
Soc, 1880, p. 195.
1894.
Chilonycteris J.
A. Allen, Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., VI, p. 247.
1902, Chilonycteris Miller, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 400.
Generic Characters.
— Crown of the head moderately elevated above the face line; ears separate, lateral; rostrum moderately depressed; nostrils superiorly with a more or less distinctly developed cutaneous ridge; lower jaw with two transverse chin-lappets.
Skull with the brain-case moderately elevated above the rostrum, and with basicranial axis but slightlv raised from the facial axis.
Dentition 2=^2 1-1 2-2 -^3-3 ' 2—2' ^1—1' !
''• 3—3' 3—3' Mistonj.
— The genus CMlonycteris was founded by Gray in 1839 on the Cuban C. madeayii, the describer believing the genus to be intermediate between "the Saccopteri and the genus Mormoops," the latter genus being considered by him a member of the tribe Noctilionina.
In 1840, Gundlach described the genus Lobostoma based on two species, one of which is the Cuban representative of the genus Mormoops, the other a synonym of CMlonycteris madeayii.
The same year Wagner, in the first supplementary volume of the Saugthiere, associated the genus with Mormoops, and placed them in the tribe Brachyura of the Gymnorhina.
During the year 1843 this genus received considerable attention from Wagner and Gray, the former of whom described C. personata, C. ruhiginosa and C. gymnonotus, all from Natterer's Brazilian material.
The last of these three species has since been removed to Dermonotus {=Pteronotus auct.).
Gray's work consisted of the description of the Haitian C. fuliginosa and Phyllodia parnellii from Jamaica, the rather different character of the latter form having impressed him to such an extent that he created a genus for it.
In commenting on Phyllodia he says it is "& Noctilionine bat, with an apparent nose-leaf, bearing a much greater resemblance to the Leaf-nosed Bats (Phyllostomina) than even Mormoops, which, when he first described it, Dr. Leach referred to that group."
The Jamaican C. grisea was the next form described, Gosse also giving us a figure.
Burmeister, in 1854, in his system of Brazilian mammals, associated CMlonycteris and Dysopes, and placed them in the Gymnura; while Wagner, in 1855, placed it and Mormoops with the Noctilionine bats in the section Brachyura of the Gymnorhina.
The year 1861 witnessed the description of two more species of the genus, C. boothi from Cuba by Gundlach, and C. osbiirm by Tomes from Jamaica, the latter being Gray's Phyllodia parnellii.
Koch in 1862-63^ used the term Mormopida in an indefinite way, apparently for this association of genera; while Ciray, in 1866,^ used the term Mormopsina for Mormoops, and Phyllodiana for Phyllodia, CMlonycteris and Pteronotus.
Peters, in his synopsis of the Mormopes, published in 1872, associated CMlonycteris with Mormops in the above group.
Gill, in the same year,^ proposed ^Jahrb.
Ver.
Naturkunde Nassau, Wiesbaden, XVII-XVIII, p. 358.
^Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., XVIT, p. 93.
^Arrangement of the Families of Mammals, p. 16. the family name Mormopidce.
Dobson, in his historic catalogue, considered Chilonycteris and Mormops to comprise the group Mormopes, which is coextensive with his subfamily Lobostomince.
The same author also describes the peculiar C. psilotis from an unkno\\Ti locality.
In 1892, Harrison Allen* raised Dobson's Lobostomince to family rank, the Lobostomidoe.
In 1902, Miller separated the Mexican type of the rubiginosa group as C.mexicana, and distinguished a Porto Rican representative of the boothi group as portoricensis.
While treating the genus Mormoops, the author, in the same year, considered Mormoops, Chilonycteris and Dermonotus representatives of a subfamily, for which the name Mormoopince was used.
General Relations.
— ^The general relationship of the genus Chilonycteris to the other members of the Mormoopince has already been considered.^ Of the species in the genus the boothi and rubiginosa groups present the greatest superficial resemblance to Mormoops, particularly in the broad flattened head and the general form of the chin-lappets; but that these resemblances are not supported by other characters is evident on studying the skulls and structure of the ears and head appendages.
On the other hand, the relationship of C. psilotis with Dermonotus is evident from the structure of the skuU, while the rubiginosa group is seen to possess a skull having the same general characteristics.
The arrangement of species in the following portion of this paper is in accordance with the general characters exhibited by the skull, running from the slender arched type of C. macleayii to the heavy short depressed skull of C. psilotis.
There are several objections to such an arrangement, but there appears to be no good evidence to support any other classification.
Dobson's psilotis is no doubt the most aberrant member of the genus,' and, while in some tooth characters it appears to differ from all the other species, and also from Dermonotus, its position in the genus is easily found by the shape of the skull.
Wagner's personata 1 have not seen, and probably it is closer to psilotis than my treatment would lead one to suppose.
This point can, of coiu-se, only be settled by the examination of the specimens in the Vienna and Berlin Museums, or by the acquisition of further material.
Remarks.
— Probably the most striking fact noticed on examining a large series of specimens of this genus is the presence of two wellmarked color phases, one rufous, the other dark brown.
This dichromatism is evident in every form of which an extensive series is *Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XV, p. 437.
5 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 161. available.
The two extremes are sometimes connected by a series of intermediate individuals possessing to a greater or less degree the dull rather purplish-brown of one type and the rich golden rufous or warm red-brown of the other.
This dichromatic coloration is also found in Mormoops and Dermonotus.
Key to the Forms.
a.
— ^^External margin of the ear with a distinct notch at or slightly below the middle.
h. — Internal margin of the ear basally thickened and bearing a distinct angulate notch.
c. — External margin of the ear abruptly convex at the commencement of its lower third forming an acute-angulate notch; forearm 35-44.5 mm.
d. — Forearm less than 43 mm.
in length; cutaneous ridge surmoimting the superior margin of the nostrils without a deep median emargination.
€.
— Length of head, body and tail considerably over 56 mm.
; calcaneum not less, usually much more, than 18 mm.
in length.
/.
— Skull rather elongate and slender; greatest zygomatic width usually less than half the total length of the skull ; rostrum and braincase about equal in length, macleayii Gray.
* ff.
— Skull abbreviate; rostrum inflated; greatest zygomatic width more than half the total length of the skull; rostrum not as long as the brain-case, .
.
m. inflata n. subsp.
ee.
— Length of head, body and tail about 56 mm.
; calcaneum not over 16 mm.
in length, m. fuliginosa (Gray).
dd.
— Forearm 43 mm.
or more in length; cutaneous ridge surmounting the superior margin of the nostrils with a deep median emargination, .
.
m. grisea (Gosse).
cc.
— External margin of the ear abruptly convex at the commencement of its lower third, forming a rectangulate notch; forearm 45.7 mm., .
.
.
personata Wagner.
bh.
— Internal margin of the ear not basally thickened and without a distinct angulate notch, c. — Nose wdth a comparatively high erect tubercle; tragus apically obtuse-angulate with a large accessory lobe; skull wath the rostrum slender.
d. — First low^er premolar in contact with third, the second crowded out of the toothrow on the lingual side; skull with the rostrum high ; foot rather slender, parnellii (Gray).
* The females of this form closely approacli ???.
inflata, but the males are quite distinct.
dd.
— First lower premolar not in contact with tliird, the second in the toothrow though usually displaced toward the lingual side; skull wdth rostrum of moderate height; foot rather robust.
e. — Size large, total length 83-85 mm.
; skull with the rostrum rather slender, brain-case slightly depressed, p. boothii (Gundlach).
ce.— Size rather small, total length 74-79 mm.
; skull with the rostrum somewhat bullate, brain-case evenly arched transversely, p. portoricensis (Miller).
cc.
— Nose with a low rounded tubercle ; skull with the rostrum comparatively short and broad; tragus apically produced, with a slight accessory lobe.
d. — Size very large; forearm not less than 59 mm.
in length; head and body not less than 72 mm., ruhiginosa Wagner.
dd.
— Size medium; forearm not more than 59 mm.
in length ; head and body not more than 63 mm., r. mexicana (Miller).
aa.— External margin of the ear without a distinct notch at or slightly below the middle, psilotis Dobson.
Chilonycteris macleayii Gray.
1839.
Chilonycteris MacLeayii Gray, Ann.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p. 5, PI.
1, fig.
2.
September, 1839.
[Cuba.]
1840.
Ch[ilonycteris] MacLeayii Wagner, Suppl.
Schreber's Saugthiere, I, p. 448.
[Cuba.]
1840.
[Lobostoma] quadrtdens Gundlach, Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, VI, bd.
I, p. 357.
[Cuba.]
1850.
Ch[ilonycteris] Mac-Leayii Wagner, Abhandlungen Mathem.-Physik.
CI.
Akad.
Wissenschaften, Mtinchen, V, p. 186.
[No locality.]
1855.
Ch[ilomjcteris] MacLeayii Wagner, Suppl.
Schreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 678.
[Cuba.]
1855.
Ch[iIonycteris] quadridens Wagner, Suppl.
Schreber s Saugthiere, V, p. 678.
[Cuba.]
, , ^^^.
1872.
Chilonycteris MacLeayii Peters, Monatsber.
K Preuss.
Akad.
\\ issensch.
Berlin.
1872, p. 360.
[Part.]
[Cuba; Jamaica; Haiti.]
1873.
Chilonycteris Mac-Leayi Gundlach, Anales Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat , I, cuad.
3, p. 244.
[Cuba.]
1878.
Chilonycteris macleayi Dobson, Catal.
Chiropt.
Bnt.
Mus., p. 449.
[Part.]
[Cuba; Port au Prince, Haiti (type of fuliginosa Gray); Jamaica (type of grisea Gosse).]
1904'.
Chilonycteris macleayii Miller, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXVII, p. 342.
[Guanajay and Baracoa, Cuba.]
Type Locality.
— Cuba.
Distribution.— C\\h&, apparently covering the greater part of the island, specimens from such extremes as Baracoa and Guanajay having been examined.
Gundlach (L c), in speaking of this species, says: Very common, they frequent the houses in the country; observed also in caves, where they sleep in clusters.
General Characters.— Size rather small (for the genus) ; ears elongate, sublanceolate, internal margin with a distinct submedian shoulder, external margin with a prominent submedian dentiform shoulder ; nostrils surmounted by a sinuate ridge bearing a series of small pads, nostrils flanked by a subacute protuberance.
Head.
— Moderately elongate; rostrum considerably depressed.
Ears elongate, sublanceolate, the lower margin extending considerably forward but failing to reach the angle of the mouth; internal margin of the ear attached to the head anterior to the small eye, internal ridge distinct, arcuate, passing by a moderately rounded shoulder into the internal margin of the ear, distal two-thirds of the internal margin of the ear straight, bearing several distinct spiniform points superior to the shoulder of the internal ridge ; external margin and lower margin ample, bearing a distinct acute notch at a point about opposite to the shoulder of the internal ridge, distal portion of the external margin straight, except the extreme apical portion which is gently concave; apex subfalcate, rounded.
Tragus subelliptical ; external margin with a slight nodular shoulder; internal margin bearing a subapical whorllike accessory flap, which lies in a plane at right angles to the body of the tragus; apex rather narrowly rounded.
Nostrils ovate, bordered by a low ridge, superior margin slightly depressed centrally and bearing six distinct sucker-like tubercles,' lateral margins flanked by an erect subdentiform flap.
Labial chin-lappet transverse, forming broadly rounded lobes laterally, the median portion of the inferior margin broadly and evenly concave, median portion of the lappet strongly papillose and margined superiorly by a small rounded nonpapillose area.
Posterior chin-lappet slight, adpressed, rounded and consisting only of a fold of skin.
Limbs.
— Forearm moderately long, rather strongly bowed in the proximal half; third digit rather short.
Femora, tibiae and feet rather slender; calcaneum very long, half again as long as the tibiae.
Membranes and Fur.
— Membranes rather heavy and leathery ; transverse nerves very regularly disposed in the endopatagium and mesopatagium; propatagium large, the anterior border totally free; uropatagium very large, extending beyond the enclosed portion of tail a distance about equal to the same.
Fur of moderate length, soft and silky; throat and chin with the fur floccose; endopatagium partially and slightly furred above ; upper hp and muzzle with the hair bristlelike in character.
Color.
^ — Rufous phase : above mars-brown suffused on the back and '' This character is subject to more or less variation, as in some specimens the individual character of each protuberance is lost.
^ From skins.
scapular region with burnt-umber, a slight silvering of pale hairs scattered irregularh' ; beneath uniform fawn color.
Brown phase: above sepia, around the head and neck paler as there the ecru under color is very apparent; below pale Isabella color, the hair seal-brown basally.
Membranes ranging from vandyke-brown to almost pure black in color.
Skull.
— Rather fragile in character; elongate, zygomata not markedly expanded ; brain-case considerably elevated above the moderately depressed rostrum; foramen magnum placed slightly above the basicranial axis.
Brain-case subglobose, crests but slightly marked; auditory bullae considerably inflated, of medium size.
Rostrum rather low, of moderate length, evenly expanded; nasal depression considerably excavated and visibly compressed; palate subequal in wddth, moderately excavated, posterior projection extending but little beyond the major portion, the cleft narrowly rounded; pterygoids rather strongly divergent.
Mandible with the ramus rather strong, ascending ramus low and comparatively weak; condyle small; coronoid process very weak and not elevated above the condyle ; angle of the mandible strongly developed and directed laterally, forming a pronounced subfalciform process.
Skulls of females are considerably smaller, and have the rostral portion much more buUate than in the males, in this respect approaching the race inflata, from wMch they can, however, be separated by the slenderer skull and narrow palate.
Teeth.
— Central pair of upper incisors much larger than the lateral pair, broad, cutting edge bilobate; lateral incisors with a single acute posteriorly placed cusp; upper canines conoid, very slightly diverging; first upper premolar subreniform in basal outline, the posterior portion lying against the internal border of the second premolar smaller than the anterior portion ; second upper premolar with a large hastate posterior cusp, basal outline subpentagonous ; first and second upper molars subquadrate, protocone and hypocone developed as low pointed cusps; third upper molar strongly transverse, protocone developed as a jagged elevation, para-hypoconoid ridge N-shaped.
Lower incisors crowded, equal in size, trilobate; canines slender; first lower premolar unicuspidate, the labial face considerably excavated; second lower premolar very minute and crowded between the first and third and displaced toward the lingual face; third lower premolar unicuspidate, slightly more acute than the first premolar; molars equal in size.
Measurements.
— Average of series f Total length [5] 61 mm.
(59-65) ; ^ Numbers in brackets designate the number of specimens examined for that particular measurement.
This is necessitated by the condition of material, as some alcohohc specimens are shriveled to sucli an extent that but few measurements can be taken.
Figures in parentheses have their usual significance as extremes.
length of head and body [2] 41.2 (41.5-44); head [3] 16.4 (15.8-17); ear [3] 13.6 (12-16) ; tragus [3] 4.8 (4.5-5) ; forearm [10] 39 (37.5-41.5) ; thumb [3] 6.5 (6-7) ; third digit [3] 60.6 (60-62) ; tibia [10] 14.6 (12-16) ; calcaneum [2] 22.7 (22.5-23) ; foot [10] 8.8 (8-9.2) ; tail [3] 19.3 (18-20).
Total length of skull [6] 15.4 mm.
(14.1-16.1); greatest zygomatic width [7] 7.7 (7.5-8) ; interorbital width [7] 3.2 (3-3.5) ; height at base of second premolar [7] 3.3 (3-3.5); height of brain-case [6] 6.1 (6-6.3); width of palatal constriction [7] 1.4 (1.3-1.5); length of palate [7] 6.5 (6-7); width of palate including teeth [7] 5.7 (5.3-6); greatest length of mandible [7] 11.1 (10-11.6).
Remarks.
— This species is not liable to be confused with the other species of the genus, but its three subspecies are all, with the possible exception of C. m. grisea, quite closely related.
From madeayii grisea the true madeayii may be separated by its smaller size and the shape of the superior margin of the nostrils; from m. juliginosa the larger size and heavier build will distinguish it; from vi.
inflata the shape of the rostral portion of the skull, as well as the general slenderer character of the palate and zygomata, will serve to differentiate it.
The most striking variation exhibited by this species is the occurrence of two forms, one considerably smaller than the other.
This fact was first noticed by Miller (l. c), and, as he states, it appears to be independent of age or sex.
The series studied, while a picked lot from the series he examined, do not give the extreme dimensions he cites, but the two forms can very readily be distinguished.
Another very striking variation is in the shape of the skull, and is apparently sexual.
The skulls of the females examined are shorter and more inflated in the rostral portion than those of the males.
In this respect they approach the Porto Rican m. inflata, but the skull of that form appears, in both sexes, to be more inflated and robust proportionally than the smaller females of madeayii.
Specimens Examined.
— Eleven alcoholic specimens and seven skins : Guanajay, Pinar del Rio, Cuba.
(U. S. N. M.) [6.]
Baracoa, Santiago, Cuba.
(U. S. N. M.) [4.]
Eight miles east of Baracoa, Santiago, Cuba.
(U. S. N. M.) [8.]
Chilonyoteris madeayii fuliginosa (Gray).
1843.
Chilonycteris fuliginosa Gray, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1843, p. 20.
[Haiti.]
1855.
Ch[ilonyderis] fuliginosa Wagner, Suppl.
Schreber's Siiugthiere, V, p. 679.
[Haiti.]
1872.
Chilonycteris MacLeayii Peters, Monatsb.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 360.
[Part.]
[Cuba; Jamaica; Haiti.]
1878.
Chilonycteris macleayi Dobson, Catal.
Chiropt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 449.
[Part.]
[Cuba; Port au Prince, Haiti (type of fuliginosa Gray); Jamaica (type of grisea Gosse).]
Type Locality.
— Port au Prince, Haiti.
Distribution.
— The island of Haiti and San Domingo.
No specimens possessing exact data available.
General Characters.
— Allied to the Cuban macleayii but the size smallest in the genus, skull smaller than in macleayii and comparatively slender, and calcanea shorter.
Head.
— As in C. macleayii.
Limbs.
— Except for the generally smaller size of the forearm and tibia, no difference is noted from the same portions of macleayii.
The calcaneum is distinctly shorter, not at all or but slightly exceeding the tibia in length.
Membranes and Fur.
— As in macleayii.
Color.
— The available alcoholic specimens have been preserved for quite a long time and the coloration exhibited by them may be somewhat abnormal.
General color above cinnamon-rufous; below sealbrown; volar membranes prout's-brown ; ears wood-brown.
The single skin available is mummified and has been in a liquid preservative at some time ; the colors are as follows : above pale mars-brown ; below isabelline, becoming ecru-drab on the throat; membranes drab.
Skull.
— Similar to C. macleayii but smaller, the males with the whole form comparatively more robust than in the same sex of macleayii.
The singular abbreviate skull of the females of macleayii approaches m. fuliginosa very much, but the latter has a slenderer rostrum and more compressed zygomata.
One specimen (5072, A. N. S. P.) bears a comparatively high sagittal crest.
Teeth.
— Essentially as in C. macleayii with the following exceptions : first upper premolar simpler in outline, more ovate than reniform; second upper premolar more transverse in outline than pentagonal, the anterior shoulder not as strongly developed as in macleayii.
Measurements.
— Average of series: Total length [1] 56.2 mm.
; length of head and body [3] 40.5 (39.5-41) ; head [1] 17.1 ; ear [2] 13.6 (13.2-14) ; tragus [2] 4.5; forearm [5] 37.7 (35-40); thumb [4] 6.2 (6-7); third digit [5] 62.2 (58.5-68); tibia [5] 15.1 (14.5-16); calcaneum [2] 15 (14-16) ; foot [5] 8.3 (8.9) ; tail [5] 18.8 (17-20).
Total length of skull [2] 14.1 (14-14.3) ; greatest zygomatic width [1] 7.2 ; interorbital width [3] 3 ; height at base of second premolar [3] 3 ; height of brain-case [2] 6 ; width of palatal constriction [2] 1 .4 ; length of palate [2] 6.1 (6-6.2); width of palate including teeth [3] 5.1 (5-5.2); greatest length of mandible [2] 10.5 (10-11).
Remarks.
— This form of macleayii, while not at all sharply defined, can be recognized by the unusually small size, short calcaneum and rather different skull.
In a number of characters which reach their extremes in macleayii and m. inflata, m. fuliginosa is intermediate, as might be expected from the distribution of these forms ; but that the three types are entitled to recognition will generally be admitted on examining representatives of the several races.
Specimens Examined.
— Five, one skin and four alcoholic specimens: Haiti.
(A. M. N. H.) [1.]
San Domingo.
(A. N. S. P.) [4.]
Chilonycteris macleayii inflata n. subsp.
1878.
Chilonycteris Mac-Leayi Gundlach (not of Gray), Anales Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat., VII, cuad.
I, p. 140.
[Bayamon and Mayaguez, Porto Rico.]
Type.
— Adult cJ^ ; Cueva di Fari, near Pueblo Yiejo, Porto Rico.
No.
6,234, A. N. S. Phila.
March 19, 1900.
Collected by Drs.
C. W. Richmond and L. Stejneger.
Distribution.
— Apparently the whole island of Porto Rico, specimens from a cave near Pueblo Viejo and Mayaguez having been examined.
General Characters.
— ^This form is distinguished from true macleayii by the short and bullate rostrum of the skull and the rather expanded zygomata.
Head, limbs and fur very much as in macleayii, l3ut the distal half of the ear is shorter and broader, the apex more blunt, and not so falcate, the external margin being straighter.
Color.
— Rufous phase i^" above rather dark cinnamon; below woodbrown, the fur basally mummy-l^rown.
Brown phase: above bistre, the short hair on the nape and sides of the neck silvery-wliite, the latter also apparent in the general bistre tint, caused by scattered unicolored hairs and also by the silver}^ median bands of the darker hairs ; below with the hair basally bistre, apically drab, becoming wood-brown on the chin and throat and whitish on the abdomen.
Membranes dull blackish.
One specimen examined appears to be intermediate between the two phases.
Skull.
— Similar to that of C. macleayii, but with the rostrum shorter and broader, the brain-case higher and the zygomata more expanded.
The rostrum is considerably shorter than the brain-case in length and the lateral margins are rather strongly and evenly arcuate ; brain-case strongly inflated and elevated above the rostrum a distance more than equal to the height of the rostrum at the anterior margin of the orbits.
Palate considerably broader than in macleayii.
The skulls of females of rnacleayii are, of course, very similar to the males of m. inflata in general appearance, but they lack the extreme characters of the rostrum and the high brain-case is pecuhar to inflata.
The skull of the female of inflata, how^ever, is practically indistinguishable from that of macleayii, though the latter is somewhat smaller. '"
Type in this phase.
Teeth.
— Similar to maclcayii but for the following exceptions : median upper incisors very broad and very distinctly bilobate ; first upper premolar small and low, considerably crowded; second lower premolar shorter and broader, the basal outline more rounded and not so oblong as in macleayii.
Measurements.
— Type: Total length 63 mm.
; head and body 45.5; head 17.3; ear 12.5; tragus 4.S; forearm 38.5; thumb 7; third digit 63.5; tibia 16.5; calcaneum 18; foot 8.5; tail 18.
Average of series: Total length [3] 64.3 (61.5-68.5) ; head and body [5] 48.7 (41-52) ; head [2] 16.9 (16.5-17.3); ear [2] 12.2 (12-12.5); tragus [2] 4.5 (4.3-4.8) forearm [6] 38.7 (38-40); thumb [2] 7; third digit [2] 62.2 (61-63.5) tibia [5] 15.6 (15-16.5) ; calcaneum [2] 19.7 (18-20.5) ; foot [6] 8.4 (8-9) tail [4] 19.6 (17-23).
Type skull: Total length 15.3 mm.
; interorbital width 3.5; height at base of second premolar 3.5 ; height of brain-case 6.4 ; width of palatal constriction 1.5; length of palate 6; width of palate including teeth 5.5; greatest length of mandible 11.
Average of series of skulls : Total length [5] 14.8 (14.2-15.3); greatest zygomatic width [3] 8 (7.9-8); interorbital width [5] 3.2 (3-3.5) ; height at base of second premolar [5] 3.3 (3.1-3.5) ; height of brain-case [5] 6.4 (6.1-7) ; width of palatal constriction [5] 1.4 (1.3-1.5); length of palate from anterior foramina [5] 6.1 (6-6.4) ; width of palate including teeth [5] 5.3 (5.1-5.5) ; length of mandible [5] 10.8 (10.6-11.1).
Remarks.
— The foregoing description presents the differential characters of inflata so that no general remarks are necessary.
The phyla represented by m. fuliginosa and m. infiata reaches its extreme type in the latter race, the most apparent diagnostic character of which is the inflated rostrum.
Specimens Examined.
— Two alcoholics and four skins : Cueva di Fari, near Pueblo Viejo, Porto Rico.
(A. N. S. P. and U. S. N. M.) [5.]
Mayaguez, Porto Rico.
(U. S. N. M.) [1.]
Chilonycteris macleayii grisea (Gosse).
1851.
Chilonycteris grisea Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica, p. 326, PL VI, fig.
1.
[Phoenix Park, Jamaica.]
1861.
Chilomjcieris quadridens Tomes, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1861, p. 65.
[Oxford Cave, Jamaica.]
1872.
Chilonycteris MacLeayi Peters, Monatsb.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 360.
(Part.)
[Cuba; Jamaica; Haiti.]
1878.
Chilonycteris macleayi Dobson, Catal.
Chiropt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 449, PI.
XXIII, fig.
1.
(Part.)
[Cuba; Port au Prince, Haiti (type of fuliginosa Gray) ; Jamaica (type of grisea Gosse).]
1880.
Chilonycteris macleayi Dobson (not of Gray), Rep. Brit.
Asso.
Adv.
Sci., 1880, p. 195.
[Environs of Kingston, Jamaica.]
Type Locality.— Vhcemx Park, St. Ann Parish, Jamaica.
Distribution.
— The island of Jamaica, specimens having been recorded from the type locality, Kingston and Oxford Cave, while other individuals have been examined from Lucea, Hanover Parish, in the extreme northwestern part of the island.
General Characters.
— Size quite large, largest of the madeayii group; nostrils with the superior margin deeply and squarely emarginate centrally.
Head.
— Similar to C macleayii with the following exceptions: Nostrils with the superior margins bearing two low quadrate peg-like projections, between which is a deep emargination completely separating them; process flanking the nostrils elongate, sublanceolate in character.
Dobson's figure {vide supra) represents these characters very clearly and was no doubt taken from the type specimen presented by Gosse, as that was the only Jamaican specimen studied by him.
Limbs.
— Similar in character to C. macleayii, but, of course, larger, though the proportions are practically the same.
Membranes and Fur.
— As in macleayii, but the free margin of the uropatagium very curiously tucked and thickened by short longitudinal thickenings, a character well exhibited in Gosse's original plate of the species.
Color.
^^ — Rufous phase: above ferruginous; below chestnut, becoming pale on the chin; ears and cephalic processes vinaceous-cinnamon, the former becoming pale drab apically; volar membranes mummybrown.
Brown phase: above bistre, sprinkled and suffused with silvery-white as in the brown phase of the other races of the macleayii group; beneath clove-brown; membranes as in the rufous phase.
Skull.
— Elongate, somewhat compressed; rostrum slenderer, comparatively, than in any of the other forms of the macleayii group; brain-case moderately inflated.
Teeth.
— As in C. macleayii, except for the first lower premolar which is broader, with the external margin more rounded than in the typical form.
Measurements.
— Average of series: Total length [4] 68.7 (66.5-74); head and body [4] 45.4 (44.5-49) ; head [2] 18.3 (18.2-18.5) ; ear [4] 15.2 (14-16.3); tragus [4] 5.6 (5-6.5); forearm [4] 43.8 (43-44.5); thumb [4] 7.5 (7-8); third digit [4] 73.7 (72.5-75); tibia [4] 16.3 (16-17); calcaneum [4] 23 (20-26) ; foot [4] 9.7 (9.5-10) ; tail [4] 23.2 (22-25).
Total length of skull [2] 16.9 (16.8-17); greatest zygomatic width [2] 8 (8-8.1); interorbital space [2] 3.5; height of second premolar [2] 3.5 (3.5-3.6) ; height of brain-case [1] 6.3; width of palatal constriction ^' From alcohol.
[2] 1.5 (1.5-1.6); length of palate from anterior foramina [2] 7; width of palate including teeth [3] 6; greatest length of mandible [2] 12 (11.9-12.1).
Remarks.
— The Jamaican form of the macleayii group is so very distinct from the other associated races that no general summary is necessary.
Specimens Examined.
— Four alcoholic specimens: Lucea, Jamaica.
(A. M. N. H.) Chilonycteris personata Wagner.
1843.
Chilonycteris personata Wagner, Archiv fiir Naturgeschiclitc, IX, bd.
I, p. 367.
[Matto Grosso.]
1850.
Chilonycteris personata Wagner, Abhandlungen Matliem.-Physik.
CI.
Akad.
Wissenschaften, Miinchen, V, p. 185.
[St. Vincent jNIatto Grosso.]
1854.
Chilonycteris personata Burmeister, Thiere Brasiliens I, p. 76.
[St. Vincent, Matto Grosso.]
1855.
Ch[iIonycieris] personata Wagner, Suppl.
Rchreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 680.
[Matto Grosso.]
1872.
Chilonycteris personata Peters, Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 360 [Brazil; Venezuela; Guatemala.]
1878.
Chilonycteris persona'a Dobson, Catal.
Cliiropt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 451.
[Guatemala; Venezuela; Matto Grosso, Brazil.]
1879.
Chilonycteris personata Alston, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 35.
[Guatemala; Venezuela; Brazil.]
Type Locality.
— Matto Grosso, Brazil.
As Wagner afterward particularly mentioned St. Vincent, Matto Grosso, it is quite probable that it was the exact locality from which the type was obtained.
Distribution.
— This species has a very extensive distribution, but as specimens appear to be extremely rare and none are now at hand, the records mentioned above constitute the only information.
It will be seen to range from Matto Grosso, Brazil, to Guatemala, and eastward to Venezuela.
Description.
— As no specimens have been examined in this connection, Wagner's description and notes in the Miinchen Ahhandlungen {vide supra) are here given : "Die Beschaffenheit der Ohren, der Klappe, der Nase, des Lippenbesatzes imd der Schneidezahne ist ganz dieselbe wie bei Ch.
fjymnonotus.^"^ Die Sporen sind ebenfalls, aber nur sehr wenig, an den imtern Theil des Schienbeins geheftet, und auch die Fliigel setzen sich etwas tiefer an.
Der Hauptunterschied liegt in der Behaarung, indem der Riicken bei dieser Art eben so behaart ist als der iibrige Korper.
Die Farbe des Pelzes kann nicht mit Sicherheit angegeben werden, da das einzige Exemplar in Brauntwein aufbewahrt ist.
Sie scheint oben schwarz oder dunkelbraun zu seyn, unten lichtbraun, indem hicr die Haarspitzen weit heller sind.
Mit Ch.
ruhiginosa kann der verschied'■-' This is Dermonotus fulvus.
13 enen Farbung und der geringeren Grosse wegen keine Verwechslung vor sich gehen.
Korper 2" V" Schwanz 0" IV" Hohe 1 8^ FreierTheildesselben.. 3 Kopf 7 Schenkelflughaut 1 1 Ohrlange 6 Yorderarm 1 8 Ohrbreite 4 Schienbein 7h Sporen 10 Flugweite ohngefahr.... 10 6 "Das beschriebene Exemplar, ein Mannchen, riihrt von St. A'inconte ill der Provinz Mato grosso her.
Steht mit Ch.
Mac-Leayii in naher A'erwandtschaf t ; wenn jedoch, wie es alien Anschein hat, Gundlach's Lobostoma quadridens mit der Gray'schen Art identisch ist, so ist von ihren die unserige schon deshalb spezifisch verschieden, weil zwar die untere Hiilfte des Vorderrandes des Ohrs ebenfalls erweitert ist (was mit zu den generischen Kennzeichen zu gehoren scheint), aber die Erweiteriing bildet nicht 4 Zahnchen, sondern ist wie bei voriger Art ganzrandig."
Chilonycteris parnellii (Gray).
1843.
Phyllodia Parnellii Gray, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1S43, p. 50.
[Jamaica.]
1855.
Ch[ilonycteris] Parnellii Wagner, Suppl.
Schreber's Saiigthiere V, p. 680.
[Jamaica.]
1861.
Chilonycteris oshurni Tomes, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1861, p. 66, PI.
XIII.
[Sportsman's Cave, Jamaica.]
1865.
Chilonycteris sp.
Osborn.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1865, p. 68.
[Sportsman's Hall Cave; Oxford Cave, Manchester, Jamaica.]
1865.
Chilonycteris oshurni Sclater, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1865, p. 68, footnote.
1866.
Phyllodia Parnellii Peters, Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin, 1866, p. 678.
[No locality.]
1872.
Chilonycteris Parnellii Peters, Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 360.
(Part.)
[Cuba; Jamaica.]
1878.
Chilonycteris parnellii Dobson, Catal.
Chiropt.
Brit Mus., p. 452.
[Jamaica.]
1902.
Chilonycteris parnellii Miller, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 401.
Type Locality.
— Jamaica.
Distribution.
— Apparently restricted to the island of Jamaica, the only definite records being from the Sportsman's Hall and Oxford Cave, while a series of specimens examined in this connection are from Liicea, Hanover Parish.
Osbm-n (I.e.)
has given us an interesting account of the species in captivity.
General Characters.
— Size rather large; ears large, subacute; the internal margin arcuate, the external margin with a distinct submedian shoulder ; tragus rounded with a distinct accessory lobe ; nostrils superiorly margined by a slight cutaneous ridge; nose bearing; a distinct high fleshy protuberance.
Head.
— Rather elongate, depressed; rostrum rather broad.
Ears large, rather broad, the lower flap broad and extending forward almost to the corner of the mouth; internal margin evenly arcuate, attached to the head above the posterior corner of the small eye, internal ridge distinct, the inferior lobe truncate ; external margin of the ear basaliy arcuate, a distinct though slight submedian shoulder, distal half faintly arcuate with a subapical concavity which throws into relief the rather blunt though slightly recurved apex.
Tragus rather short, the apex blunt and roimded, the external margin with a sUght submedian shoulder; accessory lobe distinct and represented by a curved fold on the internal side parallel with, but distinct from, the main portion of the tragus.
Nostrils somewhat inflated, and each svirmounted and internally bordered by a low arcuate row of obscure tubercles.
Lateral portions of the muzzle thickened and forming a moderately elevated ridge which gradually passes into the lateral portions of the upper lip.
Rostrum surrounded by a high rounded excrescence.^' Labial chinlappet rather narrow, strongly transverse, the median portion strongly papillose, the superior margin around the semicircular chin-pad bearing the largest papillae; inferior margin very faintly concave.
Posterior chin-lappet a simple flap almost equal to the labial lappet in width, depressed.
Limbs.
— Forearm of moderate length, slightly curved in the proximal portion; thumb rather heavy.
Tibia rather heavy and stout (for the genus) ; foot slender, the toes strongly compressed ; calcaneum not quite half as long again as the tibia.
Membranes and Fur.
— Membranes rather tliin but strong, the endopatagium and mesopatagium with the nerve rami longitudinal; uropatagium moderately large and with a great number of transverse lines of hair; propatagium deep proximally, margin entirely free.
Fur rather thick and rather woolly in character on the lower surface, the throat sparsely haired, the upper surface of the endopatagium with a considerable proximal area furred.
Hair on the chin-lappets and muzzle rather setif orm ; ears with an irregular covering of white flocculose hairs.
Color.
— This species appears to possess two color phases, which are not quite so clearly defined as in some of the other forms of the genus.
Brown phase ■}* above between cloveand vandyke-brown ; below clove'^ This curious outgrowth is exceedingly interesting.
It is possibly analogous to the nose-leaf of the Phyllostomatine bats, but this appears to be doubtful, and probably it should be considered as representing a structure similar to that found in some Vesper tilionine bats such as Aritrozous and Corijnorhinus.
'* From alcohol.
brown, the hair with a silvery or wliitish suffusion; membranes and muzzle mars-brown, the latter portion rather pale and tending toward cinnamon.
Rufous phase: above dark mars-broT\Ti, the hair pale at base ; below with the hair between vandyke-brown and sepia basally, the apical portion light and rather silvery in character; membranes a little paler than in the brown form.
Skull.
— Robvist and strongly built.
Brain-case moderately elevated above the rostrum, somewhat depressed longitudinally, but rather evenly arched transversely; auditory bi-illse rather prominent; zygomata little cm'ved, simple, greatest width posterior.
Rostrum rather high, appearing somewhat compressed when viewed from the anterior aspect, merging into the brain-case with a very slight angle ; nasal depression slight, shallow; palate rather deeply excavated, posterior extension short and with the cleft acute-angulate.
Mandible rather slender, symphysis and anterior portion hea\y; ascending ramus low; angle bluntly and slightly recurved.
Teeth.
— Median upper incisors quadrate in outline, very obscurely bilobate; lateral upper incisor circular in basal outline and touching the anterior margin of the incisor, cusp very low; upper canine conoid, very slightly recurved ; fost upper premolar reniform in basal outline, cusp rather low; second upper premolar trigonal in basal outline, cusp moderately liigh, caniniform, internal cingulum rather strongly marked ; first and second upper molars with the proto-hypoconoid ridge well marked, the hypocone considerably the lower.
Lower median incisors distinctly trilobate, laterals bilobate or obscurely trilobate, all short and rather crowded; lower canines somewhat divergent and slightly recurved; first lower premolar rather oblong in basal outline, cusp rather acute; second low^er premolar small, circular and crowded between the first and third premolar and forced to the internal side of the toothrow, which when viewed from the labial aspect exhibits Uttle or no space between the first and third premolar; third lower premolar compressed, elongate when viewed from above, the cusp erect and somewhat recurved with a slight anterior accessory cusp; low^er molars similar in character to one another, the first the largest in the series, the posterior molar with the entoconid very low when compared v ith that cusp of the other teeth.
Measurements.
— Average of series of eight alcoholic specimens: Total length 76 (73.5-81) mm.
; length of head and body 56.7 (53-60.5) ; length of head 23.5 (22-25); length of ear 20.6 (19.5-21.5); length of tragus 5.3 (4.5-6) ; length of forearm 53.5 (52-54) ; length of thmnb 8.2 (7.5-8.5) ; length of third digit 85.8 (84-87) ; length of tibia 19 (18-19.5) ; length of calcaneum 23 (21-24) ; length of foot 12.7 (12-13.4); length of tail 20.9 (17-25).
Average of three skulls: Total length 20.6 (20.2-21); greatest zygomatic width 11.1 (11-11.5); interorbital width 4 (4-4.1); height at base of second premolar 4.9 (4.8-5) ; height of brain-case 7.6 (7.2-8) ; breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 10; width of palatal constriction 1.4 (1.4-1.5); length of palate from anterior foramina 8.6 (8.3-9); width of palate including teeth 7.1 (7.1-7.2); greatest length of mandible 15.5 (15.2-16.)
Remarks.
— This species is not liable to be confused with any of the forms of the genus except its own subspecies.
From both of these it may be separated by the crowded second premolar, the high rostral portion of the skull and the rather slender foot.
Specimens Examined.
— Eight alcohohc specimens: Lucea, Jamaica.
(A. M. N. H.) Chilonycteris parnellii boothi (Gundlach).
1861.
Chilonycteris Boothi Gundlach, Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch., Berlin, 1861, p. 154.
["In Fundador, audi in Guines."]
1872.
Chilonycteris Parnellii Peters, Monatsber, K. Preuss.
Akad, Wissensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 360.
(Part.)
[Cuba; Jamaica.]
1873.
Chilonycteris Boothi Gundlach, Anales Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat., I, cuad.
3, p. 245.
[Cuba.]
1902.
Chilonycteris boothi MiUer, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 401.
1904.
Chilonycteris boothi Miller, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXVII, p. 341.
[Baracoa, Santiago, Cuba.]
i Type Locality.
— Fundador, Matanzas Province, Cuba.
Gundlach states that the species was also found at Guines, but Fundador was fixed as the type locality by Miller and Rehn.^^ Distribution.
— ^The species has been recorded from Guines, Havana Province; Fundador, Matanzas Province, and Baracoa, Santiago Province, From these records it would appear that the species is rather generally distributed through the island.
Gundlach, in speaking of the species, says : Observed and not rare in various caves of the departments, also gathering at night in houses in the country.
General Characters.
— Similar to C. parnellii, but differing in the disposition of the lower premolars, the more depressed rostrum and the more robust form.
It is also very closely related to C. p. portoricensiSj from which, however, it is separated by its larger size, slenderer rostrum and rather depressed brain-case.
Head.
— Similar to C. parnellii, but with the ear slenderer, longer and with the apical portion decidedly falcate.
Limbs.
— Much as in C. parnellii, except that the foot appears to be .
\ 1^ Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXXI, p, 125. rather stouter and heavier.
As the comparable material of C. p. hoothi is very limited, this may prove to be incorrect when a larger series is examined and compared.
Membranes and Fur.
— As in C. parnellii.
Color.
— As far as published references and available material goes, no rufous phase is known in this race.
This is no doubt due to the limited material available, and further work wall probably show the rufous type is also present in the Cuban form.
Hair of the upper surface silvery-gray at the base, apically dark walnut-brown, rather pale on the nape and sides of the neck, w^here the under color shows through and considerably weakens the brown tint; below Avith the hair of the chest and abdomen bistre at the base, the tips of the hair on these parts and all the hair on the throat and chin ecru-drab, this color appearing stronger on the throat than on the other parts ; membranes seal-brown.
Skull.
— Similar to C. parnellii, but slightly larger, the rostrum slightly slenderer and lower, while the nasal impression is not as marked as C. parnellii.
Teeth.
— Essentially as in C. parnellii, except that the second lower premolar is not as crowded, having a place in the toothrow {i.e., placed so that it is distinctly visible from either the labial or lingual aspect of the tooth series), though still somewhat displaced toward the lingual side.
Measurements.
— Average of a series of four specimens : Total length 81.2 (76-88) ; length of head and body 64.4 (60.5-68) ; length of head»« 24.8 (24.2-25.5); length of ear^^ 22 (21.5-22.5); length of tragus^' 5.6 (5.3-6); length of forearm 52 (51-53.5); length of thumb 8.7 (8-9.1); length of third digit 86.7 (85-90); length of tibia 19.5 (19-20); length of calcaneum 21.8 (21-23); length of foot 11.6 (11-12.5); length of taiP" 21 (19.5-22.5).
Average of two skulls: Total length 21 (20.8-21.2); greatest zygomatic width 11.2 (11.2-11.3); interorbital width 4.2; height at base of second premolar 4.8; height of brain-case 7.4 (7.3-7.5); breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 10; wddth of palatal constriction 1.4 (1.3-1.6); length of palate from anterior foramina 8.7 (8.6-8.8); width of palate including teeth 7.2 (7.2-7.3) ; greatest length of mandible 15.7 (15.5-16).
Remarks.
— The differential characters of this form have already been given under the key of the species and general characters of the race.
'• From two specimens.
Specim.eyis Examined.
— Four specimens, two skins, two alcoholic individuals: Baracoa, Santiago, Cuba.
(U. S. N. M.) Chilonycteris parnellii portoricensis (Miller).
1902.
Chilonycteris portoricensis Miller, Proc.
Acad.
Nat, Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 400.
[Cave near Pueblo Viejo, Porto Rico.]
Type Locality.
— Cueva di Fari, near Pueblo Viejo, Bayamon district, Porto Rico.
Distribution.
— Known only from the type locality, but probably found in suitable localities throughout the island.
General Characters.
— Similar to C. p. hoothi, but the size is less, while the skull is somewhat inflated.
Head.
— Essentially as in C. p. hoothi, except that the ears appear to be slightly smaller with the apical portion blunter and less falcate.
Limbs.
— Except for the slight difference in proportions, essentially as in C. p. hoothi.
Membranes and Fur.
— As in C. p. hoothi.
Color.
— Above dark brown, between Ridgway's mars-brown and bistre, pale on the nape where the ecru-drab under portion of the hair is very evident ; below dark gray, the base of the hair on the abdomen and chest seal-brown, on the throat and chin pale Isabella color; membranes blackish-brown.
The remarks made under C. p. hoothi concerning color phases also apply to this form.
One specimen shows a slight approach toward the rufous form.
t* Skull.
— Similar to that of C. p. hoothi, except that the brain-case is more arched transversely and the rostrum is distinctly broader and heavier.
This character is interesting, as it is paralleled by a similar development in the Porto Rican form of the macleayii group.
Teeth.
— Essentially as in C. p. hoothi.
Measurements.
— Average of series: Total length [5] 77.3 (74-79); length of head and body [5] 57.8 (54-66) ; length of head [4] 23 (21.524.3) ; length of ear [4] 20.5 (19.7-22) ; length of tragus [4] 5.3 (5-5.7) ; length of forearm [5] 50.7 (49.6-51.5) ; length of thumb [5] 8.2 (8-8.5) ; length of third digit [5] 81 (79-82); length of tibia [5] 18.4 (18-19); length of calcaneum [4] 22.9 (19-25) ; length of foot [5] 11.8 (10.5-12.5) ; length of tail [4] 21 (19.5-23).
Dimensions of one skull: Total length 20.5; greatest zygomatic width 11.1; interorbital space 4; height at base of second premolar 4.8; height of brain-case 7.5; breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 9.8; width of palatal constriction 1.4; length of palate from anterior foramina 8.7; width of palate including teeth 7.5; greatest length of mandible 15.6 Remarks.
— This race needs special comparison with only one form, C. pamellii boothi.
From it portoriccnsis can be distinguished by the rather smaller size and the form of the skull.
Tlie ears do not seem to be as good a diagnostic character as those given here, but still there is a slight difference in the shape of the same.
From C. jxtrncllii the same characters that distinguish C. p. boothi can be applied to this subspecies.
Specimens Examined.
— Five, one skin, four alcoholic specimens: Cueva di Fari, near Pueblo A'lejo, Porto Rico.
(U. S. N. M.) Chilonycteris rubiginosa Wagner.
1843.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Wagner, Archiv fiir Naturgescliichte, IX, bd.
I, p. 367.
[Caigara, Brazil.]
1850.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Wagner, Abhandlungen IMathem.-Physik.
CI.
Akad.
Wissenschaften Munchen, V, p. 181, taf.
Ill figs.
2-6.
[Caicara, Brazil.]
1854.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Burmeister, Thiere Brasiliens, I, p. 75.
[Caicara.
Brazil.]
1S55.
Ch[ilonycteris] rubiginosa Wagner, Suppl.
Schreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 679.
[Matto Grosso.]
1872.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Peters, Monatsbericlite K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissenscli., Berlin, 1872, p. 360.
[Brazil; Guatemala; Costa Paca.]
1878.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Dobson, Catal.
Chiropt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 452, PI.
XXIII, fig.
3.
1879.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Alston, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 35.
(Part.)
[Mirador, Mexico; Duenas, Ciudad Vieja, Guatemala; Costa Rica; Colombia; Brazil.]
1892.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Thomas, Journal Trinidad Field Naturalists' Club.
J, p. 162.
[Port of Spain, Trinidad.]
1902.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Miller Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pbila., 1902, p. 402.
[Chontales, Nicaragua; Trinidad.]
Type Locality.
— Caigara, ujDper Amazon, Brazil.
Distribution.
— Upper Amazon region of Brazil, north to Guatemala, east at least to Trinidad.
The specimens from the latter island may, when further material has been examined, i^rove to be a distinct race.
This form no doubt intergrades with C. r. mexicana, as specimens of the latter race from southern Mexico approach true rubiginosa in proportions.
The specimen from Guatemala measured by Dobson (L c.) was without doubt true rubiginosa.
General Characters.
— Size large (largest in the genus) ; ears with the internal margin entire; tragus apically produced and with a slight accessory lobe; nose with a low rounded tubercle.
Head.
— Moderately long, depressed; crown moderately elevated above rostrum.
Ears erect, apically acute; internal margin evenly arcuate, the inferior lobe rectangulate; external margin slightly concave in its upper half, median notch rectangulate, rather small, the angle of the inferior shoulder rounded, lower portion of the external margin evenly rounded and carried forward to near the angle of the mouth, at which point it rather abriii)tly and squarely terminates.
Tragus sublanceolate; apex acutely produced: external margin evenly rounded, with a shght emargination and thickening of the proximal portion; internal margin thickened and bearing a slight accessory lobe, which takes the form of a subarcuate longitudinal thickening of the internal margin.
Nose, a distance back from the nostrils, with a rather low, rounded, subtransverse excrescence, anterior from which extend three impressed lines, the lateral ones strong, extending down to and flanking the nostrils, median one fainter and dividing the nostrils.
Nostrils subovate, each crowned by a very low transverse fleshy ridge, each bearing several very poorly defined flat disk-like structures; median line between the nostrils flanked by a row of several indistinct nodular processes.
Labial chin-lappet strongly transverse, arcuate; lateral portions without papilla; median portion strongly and very distinctly papillose, and margined superiorly by a semicircular imim}:)ressed area.
Posterior chin-lappet a simple adpressed fold half the wddth of the labial chin-lappet.
Limbs.
— Forearm moderately long, slightly and evenly bowed; third digit of medium length.
Forearm, tibise and feet rather robust, the toes occupying about half the length of the foot; calcaneum rather short, exceeding the tibise by a fifth the length of the latter.
Membranes and Fur.
— Membranes leathery, but not heavy; veins of the endopatagium and mesopatagium regularly longitudinal, those of uropatagium irregularly radiating from the point of exit of the tail ; uropatagium large; propatagium deep, free its entire length.
Fur uniformly distributed over the body, and extending a moderate distance on the endopatagium, both above and below; hair around the muzzle rather setiform in character.
Color."
— Above mars-brown, with a slight hoary frosting posteriorly; below prout's-brown posteriorly suffused with pale ochraceous.
Membranes sepia.
The red phase is also present in this species, as both Wagner and Dobson mention it.
Wagner possessed two specimens, one in each phase.
He describes the red phase as follows: The color of the tipper and the tinder side is a uniform rusty cinnamon-red, that of the upper side of the body by the nape and the breast brighter, on the belly lighter with scattered spots of light brown.
On the upper side the hair is tmicolor for its entire length ; on the belly the greater under part is dark with lighter tips.
The flying membranes are brownish, the nails of the hind foot soiled horn-brown.
The second example is a dark color.
^' From one Nicaragua skin.
Skull.
— Rather strongly built; moderately elongate, zygomata but little expanded; brain-case moderately elevated above the short and broad rostrum.
Brain-case subglobosc, somewhat depressed, crests faint.
Rostrum of medimii height, comparatively short and distinctly expanded, considerably less than the brain-case in length; nasal depression distinctly though shallowly excavated; palate subequal in width, moderately excavated, posterior projection extending but little beyond the major portion, the cleft narrowly rounded; pterygoids considerably divergent.
Mandible with the ascending rami low and quite weak, the angle being considerably elevated and moderately produced laterally.
Teeth.
— Median upper incisors moderately large, shallowly bilobate.
the external lolje considerably smaller than the internal; external upper incisors over half the size of the median pair in basal outline, the cusp very low and weak, no space present between the incisors and canines; upper canines very slightly divergent and moderately recurved; first upper premolar reniform in basal outline, the greatest length of the tooth oblique, cusp low and simple ; second upper premolar crudely triangular in basal outline, the apex anterior, cusp caniniform; first and second upper molars with the protocone and hypocone distinct and acute.
Lower median incisors trilobate; lower lateral incisors bilobate, not half the size of the median pair and crowded between them and the canines; lower canines considerably divergent, slightly recurved ; first lower premolar subquadrate in basal outline, cusp moderately elevated, compressed; second lower premolar low, circular and strongly crowded between the first and third premolar; third lower premolar oblong in basal outline, the single cusp acute; third low^er molar smaller than the two preceding teeth and the entoconid and hypoconid somewhat weaker when compared with the para-proto-metaconid group.
Measurements.
— ^Averages of series: Length of head and body [3] 67.5 mm.
(62.5-72) ; total length [4] 89 (80-95) ; length of head [3] 25.3 (24-26.1) ; ear [3] 2L5 (21-22) ; tragus [3] 5.7 (5.5-6) ; forearm [4] 60.6 (59-63); thumb [3] 10.7 (10.3-11.5); third digit [3] 96.6 (92-101): tibia [4] 22.1 (22-22.5); foot [3] 14.5 (14-15); tail [3] 24.9 (23-26).
Total length of skull [averages from two skulls] 22.7 mm.
(22.5-23); greatest zygomatic width 12.9 (12.5-13.3) ; breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 11.2 (11-11.5); interorbital width 5; height at base of second premolar 5.4 (5.3-5.5); height of brain-case 8.5; width of palatal constriction 1.8 (1.7-2); length of palate from anterior foramina 9.7 (9.6-9.8); width of palate including teeth 8; greatest length of mandible 17.8.
Remarks.
— This species is unlikely to be confused with any form of the genus except the race mexicana, which can readity be separated liy the size and the intensity of the coloration in the brown phase.
From the boothi group it can readily be separated by the characters given in the key of species.
Specimens Examined.
— Four, one skin and three alcoholic individuals : Port of Spain, Trinidad.
(U. S. N. M.) [2.]
Costa Rica.
(U. S. N. M.) [1.]
Chontales, Nicaragua.
(U. S. N. M.) [1.]
Chilonycteris rubiginosa mexicana (Miller).
1879.
Chilonycteris rubiginosa Alston, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 35.
(Part.)
[Mirador, Mexico; Duenas, Ciudad Vieja, Guatemala; Costa Rica; Colombia; Brazil.]
1894.
Chilonycteris riibiginosus J.
A. Allen.
Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., VI, p. 247.
(Not of Wagner.)
[South shore of Lake Chapala, Michoacan, Mexico.]
1902.
Chilonycteris mexicana Miller, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 401.
[San Bias, Tepic; Hacienda Magdalena, near city of Colima, Colima; Chacala, Durango; Ameca, Bolanos, Jalisco: near Ometepec, Guerrero; Morelos; Huil tepee, Oaxaca; Mexico.]
Type Locality.
— San Bias, Tepic, Mexico.
Distribution.
— Specimens have been examined from localities reaching from Tehuantepec and Huiltepec, Oaxaca to Chacala, Durango, while individuals from Mirador, A^era Cruz, are perfectly typical.
To the south, no doubt, this form grades into true rubiginosa, as the specimens from southern Mexico average larger than those from around the type locality.
Miller says of this form: ''At San Bias Chilonycteris mexicana was very common in a small narrow cave which extended like a deep crevice into the base of the cliff on the hillside facing the town."
General Characters.
— Similar to C. rubiginosa.
but smaller, and the brown phase of coloration lighter.
Limbs.
— As in rubiginosa, but for the smaller size.
Membranes and Fur.
— As in rubiginosa.
Color.
— Bro-wn phase : above prout's-brown , rather pale on the nape; below with the hair seal-brown basally with broccoli-brown tips, the color weak on the throat due to the thinner character of the pelage.
Ears and membranes clove-brown.
Rufous phase: entire body and head rich tawny-ochraceous, the hairs of the under surface brown at base (varying from cinnamon on the throat to mummy-brown on the abdomen).
Ears and membranes clove-brown.
The two color phases appear to run together as several specimens examined are almost intermediate, for while the upper surface will incline toward the brown phase, the lower surface strongly resembles the rufous form.
The type, described by Miller, apparently does not represent the extreme of the brown phase.
From the specimens examined the brown phase may l^e said to be commoner than the rufous form.
Skull and Teeth.
— Except for the difference in size, the skull and teeth are as in Ch.
rubiginosa.
Measurements.
— Average of representative series of fourteen specimens: Total length 78.8 (77-85); length of head and body 58.8 (56.5-63.5); length of head 23.6 (22..5-24.5) ; length of ear 20.5 (18.522.1); length of tragus 5.8 (5-6.4); length of forearm 56.5 (54-59); length of thumb 9.8 (9.1-11); length of third digit 93 (87-97); length of tibia 20.2 (19-22); length of foot 12.9 (12.5-13.5); length of tail 21.2 (19.4-23.5).
Average of eleven skulls: Greatest length 21.2 (20.9-22); greatest zygomatic width 11.8 (11-12.5); interorbital width 4.4 (4.2-4.8); breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 10.3 (10.1-10.5); height at base of second premolar 4.8 (4.6-5.1); height of brain-case 8 (7.8-8.2); width of palatal constriction 1.6 (1.4-1.8); length of palate from anterior foramina 8.5 (8.3-9.2) ; width of palate including teeth 7.4 (7-7.9); greatest length of mandible 15.8 (15.4-16.5).
Remarks.
— This race can easily be distinguished from true rubiginosa by the difference in size.
Specimens Examined .
— Forty-six specimens; eight skins, thirty-six alcoholic individuals, one odd skull: Near Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[L] Huiltepec, Oaxaca, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[1.]
Ometepec, Guerrero, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[3.]
Morelos, Mexico.
(U. S. N. M.) [4.]
Mirador, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
(U. S. N. M.) [1.]
CoHma City, Cohma, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[2.]
Hacienda Magdalena, Colima, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[5.]
Ameca, Jalisco, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[5.]
Bolahos, Jalisco, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[4.]
South shore of Lake Chapala, Michoacan, Mexico.
(A. M. N. H.) [4.]
San Bias, Tepic, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[11.]
Chacala, Durango, Mexico.
(Biological Survey.)
[5.]
Chilonycteris psilotis Dobson.
1878.
Chilonycteris psilotis Dobson, Catal.
Chiropt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 451 PL XXIII, fig.
2.
1902.
Chilonycteris psilotis Miller, Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., XV, p. 249.
December 16, 1902.
[Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Mexico.]
Type Locality and Distribution.
— Dobson's types (cJ' and ?)
came from an unkno-^Ti locality, and until the recent record of the species by Miller (vide supra) nothing was known regarding its habitat.
The Isthmus of Tehuantepec is according^ the only locality from which the species is known.
General Characters.
— Size medium; ear without distinct notch on the external margin ; toes distinctly longer than the remainder of the foot.
Head.
— Rather short and broad; rostrum moderately depressed, bearing on its superior aspect a distance back of the nosa a transverse, arcuate fleshy ridge, equal in width to the nose-pad itself.
Ears moderately elongate, rather broad (for the genus), apically sublanceolate, the lower margins extended considerably forward, but failing to reach the angle of the mouth; internal margin of the ear attached to the head superior to the eye, internal ridge distinct, thickened, slightly arcuate, evenly rounded inferiorly and passing by a well-marked shoulder into the internal margin of the ear, distal twothirds of the internal margin arcuate, slightly sinuate toward the apex and furnished about half-way between the apex and the shoulder of the internal ridge with a series of four small tooth-like projections ; external margin basally convex, apically concave, without any distinct notch; apex rather slender, subfalciform, narrowly rounded.
Tragus oblong, apex rather acute, accessory flap small and rounded.
Nostrils transversely ovate, superior margin with a rather low ridge which is divided into about six parts by shallow incisions, lateral margins flanked by low rounded fleshy folds.
Labial chin-lappet strongly transverse, bearing a raised margin lateralh%" inferior margin verj^ broadly and slightly concave, median portion of the lappet with rather obscure papillae; superior margin with a deep median emargination, which lodges the simple lip-pad.
Posterior chin-lappet slight, a simple fold equal in width to the labial fold, against which it is closely set.
Limbs.
— Forearm moderately long, considerably bowed in the proximal half.
Femora and tibise moderately robust (for the genus) ; foot elongate, somewhat compressed, considerably more than half the length of the foot occupied by the toes ; calcanea but slightly longer than th*^tibise and provided with a free apex.
Membranes and Fur.
— Membranes thin and rather papery in character; transverse nerves of the endopatagium and mesopatagiiim very regularly disposed ; propatagium much as in madeayii, but the distal portion is rather narrower ; uropatagium rather large, extending beyond the enclosed portion of the tail a distance equal to the same.
Fur of moderate length and extending evenly a short distance out on the dorsal surface of the endopatagium ; both surfaces of the endopatagium and uropatagium with scattered inconspicuous hairs; muzzle ^\ith a number of long setiform hairs.
Color.
— As the only available specimen is an old alcoholic individual, the colors are possibly not what might be seen in fresh specimens.
Above vandyke-l^rowii, rather pale on the loins ; l^eneath drab, with a clouding of pale whitish.
Muzzle, naked spots on head and ears woodbrown, the latter rather darker than the other portions.
IMembranes mummy-bro'^Ti, paler on the propatagium, proximal portions of the endopatagium and uropatagium than on the remaining sections.
Dobson describes the color as follow's: "Fur orange above and beneath with orange-brown extremities ; darker above, paler beneath."
Skull.
— Comparatively short and robust, the rostral portion moderately inflated and the nasal depression rather broadly and deeply excavated.
Brain considerably inflated and moderately elevated above the rostrum, into wliich it evenly descends, crests hardly visible; zygomata moderately expanded ; interorbital constriction not strongly marked.
Palate subequal in width (not including teeth), moderately arched, posterior projection of little extent, the cleft obtuse-angulate ; pterygoids strongly divergent.
Mandible very similar to that of C. rnacleayii, but the length is less, the build heavier and the angle distinctly falcate.
Teeth.
— Upper median incisors broad, rather faintly bilobate; lateral upper incisors small and closely pressed to the median pair and separated from the canines by a considerable space ; upper canines moderately long, very slightly curved ; first upper premolar oblong in basal outline, longitudinal disposed and bearing a single low cusp; second upper premolar subpentagonal in basal outline, the single cusp acute and subcaninif orm ; first and second upper molars with the hypoconid region developed into a rather projecting rounded lobe which is very apparent.
Lower incisors small, trifid; lower canines straight; first lower premolar subrotundate in basal outline with the cusp rather blunt; second lower premolar minute and displaced to the inner side of the toothrow; third lower premolar subquadrate in basal outline; lower molars very much as in C macleayii.
Measurements}^ — Total length 62 mm.
; head and body 46; ear (from meatus) 15.8; tragus 5; forearm 44; thumb 8; third digit 71; tibia 17; calcaneimi 19; foot 9 (8); tail 16.
Total length of skull 15 mm.
; greatest zygomatic width 8.2; interorbital width 3.7; height at base of second premolar 4; height of braincase 6.5; width of palatal constriction 1.2; length of palate 6; width of palate including teeth 5.5; greatest length of mandible 10.5.
Remarks.
— This species hardly requires comparison ^^'ith any in the genus, being smaller and differing in general aspect from the boothi and ruhiginosa group, while the macleayii type may easily be separated by the form of the ear.
The skull closeh^ resembles that of Dermonotus, but it is slenderer with a narrower interorbital region and different shaped premolars.
As the species seems to approach Dermonotus in some characters, I have placed it at the end of the genus, all the other forms appearing to l^e more homogeneous, a fact rather strongly demonstrated by the form of the skull.
Specimens Examined.
— One alcoholic; Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Mexico.
(U. S. N. M.) ^^ As some measurements of the only available specimen have already been published by Miller {I. c), I have used his information, only filling out the proportions required to make the measurements uniform with those of the remainder of this paper.
ON THE GERM CELLS AND THE EMBRYOLOGY OF PLANARIA SIMPLISSIMA.. BY N. M. STEVEXS.
This planarian, which is found in small streams about Bryn Mawr.
was identified provisionalh' in 1900 by Woodworth as Planaria luguhris, and has since figured under that name in several of Prof. T. H. Morgan's papers on regeneration; also in my "Notes on Regeneration in Planaria lugubris" (Stevens, '01).
On looking up the European species (P. luguhris) as described and figured by Schmidt ('59, PI.
Ill, figs.
5 and 6), and by Kennel ('79, PI.
VII, fig.
8), I felt sure that Woodworth must have been mistaken as to the species; but I was unable to find any correct description or figures, either of the external characters of the animal or of its reproductive organs, and I was inclined to call it a new species.
In September, 1903, after this paper was written, I came across an article by Curtis ('00) on the reproductive organs of Planaria simplissima n. sp.
The reproductive organs of this species were so strikingly like those of the form on which I had been working that, although there was considerable difference in form, size and color, I was convinced that the two worms must be closely related, if not local varieties of the same species.
In answer to m^^ inquiries about Planaria simpUssima , Prof. Curtis has recently written me that after studying specimens sent to him b}' Prof. Morgan from Brjoi Mawr, and sectioning others of the same species found near Baltimore in 1900 and 1901, he concluded that the Williamstown form, P. simplissima (fig.
B), and the Bryn Mawr form P. {luguhris), (fig.
A) belonged to the same species.
Prof. Curtis desires me to state that his description of the external characters of P. simplissima was made from fixed material, living specimens not being accessible when he discovered that he was dealing with a new species.
Later observations on living specimens from Williamstown made it apparent that his description was at fault, especially with regard to the lateral cephalic appendages which are more marked than was evident in fixed material.
A careful sketch, made at this time from the living animal and sent to me with his letter, is a good representation of a young specimen of the Bryn Mawr form (figs.
A and B) 1904.]
209 Fij^.
A.
Outline sketch of a large mature specimen of Planaria simplissima, a^gray sensory area on the lateral auricular appendage.
7J=:pharynx.
(7=genital opening.
Fig.
B.
Outline drawing from Curtis's sketch of a. small specimen from Williams town.
and, I think, leaves no doubt that we have the same species, which may be described as follows: Planaria simplissima Curtis.
Length of mature specimens 7-15 mm.
; breadth 2-4 mm.
Color a nearly uniform seal-brown'(occasionally grajdsh) with an inconspicuous gray area on each'cephalic appendage.
Eyes gray with a crescent of black pigment on the median side.
Both anterior and posterior ends blunt.
Lateral^cephalic appendages blimt and inconspicuous as compared with P. macvlata.
Body thick as compared with P. maculata.
Pharynx just posterior to the middle point of the longitudinal axis of the worm.
Ovaries two, ventral, somewhat lobed, and situated about half-way from the anterior end of the animal to tlic pharynx.
14 210 [Feb., Testes four or five on each side, unpaired, dorsal, and irregularly distributed from the region of the ovaries to the posterior end of the pharynx (figs.
C and D).
Penis long and slender, not filling the ^pi) •'^''gC. Median longitudinal section of Planaria simplissima showing reproductive organs.
Parts out of the plane of the section are shown in dotted lines.
a=antrum.
6 — brain.
o=;ovary.
cc/^^oviduct.
p=penis.
/= testis.
w= uterus.
W=vas deferens of one side.
a;= ciliated tube opening into uterus.
v=:vagina.
Fig.
D. Reconstruction from several cross-sections 'showing ovaries (o), oviducts {od), nerve cords {n) and testes (t).
antrum.
Uterus consisting of a chamber lined with glandular epithelium, dorsal to the antrum, and with an anterior prolongation in the form of a narrow ciliated tube with no enlargement at its anterior end.
Vasa deferentia two, opening separately into the anterior enlargement of the lumen of the penis.
Oviducts two, ventral and parallel with the nerve-cords, uniting before entering the uterus (figs.
C and D).
Vitellaria extending from the region of the ovaries to the posterior extremity of the animaL Foimd on the under side of stones and leaves along the margin of small streams.
1904.]
211 The original object of this paper was a discussion of the reproductive organs, ovogenesis, spermatogenesis and embryological development of Planaria {luguhris).
The discovery that it is not P. luguhris but P. simplissima Curtis renders further discussion of the reproductive organs unnecessary, and I shall therefore confine my attention to a study of the germ-cells and the embryology of this species, which presents some peculiarities not fully described by Ijima ('84) and Hallez (79).
Fertilization.
— Copulation has not been observed in this species, but there is every reason for supposing that it occurs, for spermatozoa are found only in the vasa deferentia, the lumen of the penis, the uterus and the oviduct.
In nearly every specimen the anterior end of the oviduct is crowded with spermatozoa (PI.
XIII, fig.
1, od), while only occasionally one is found in the posterior part of the duct or in the uterus.
The spermatozoa are never found among the oocytes in the ovary, and it is probable that each egg is fertilized as it enters the oviduct, for the spermatozoon is always found in the eggs of a forming capsule, and no spermatozoa are found among the eggs and yolk.
I should therefore agree with Ijima in regarding the uterus as a gland for forming the cocoon shell, and not as the place where fertilization occurs (Hallez), or as a receptaculum seminis (Kennel).
When an egg-capsule is forming, the antrum, uterus and the tube x (fig.
C) are all thrown into one chamber, which is filled with eggs and yolkcells, the penis being pushed back against the anterior wall of the antrum (fig.
E) and the antrum l^eing separated from the pharynx-chamber by so thin a layer of tissue that it is often broken through in fixed specimens, and yolk-cells are found in the pharynx-chamber.
Ovogenesis.
— The early stages in the development of the oocytes evidently should be studied in the summer after laying-time, for the ovaries are practically unchanged in appearance from October to laying-time in April.
Figure 1, drawn from a section cut in November, shows nearly all of the odcj^tes in the same condition as in sections containing the first maturation-spindle (cut in April and May).
The cytoplasm of the oocytes stains deeply with hsematoxylin and Fig.
E. Median longitudinal section through an individual containing an eggcapsule (c).
od= oviduct.
p= penis contains here and there a 3'olk-granule in a vacuole (fig.
2a, y).
The nucleus is very large and shows but little stainable chromatin, and that in the form of fine granules on threads of linin.
The large nucleolus, which stains deeply with orange, contains one or more vacuoles.
As in my previous work on the histology of planarians (Stevens, '02), the best results were obtained by fixing the material with sublimate-acetic and staining -^dth Delafield's hsematoxylin and orange.
The first maturation-spindle is found in the ovary about twentyfour hours before laying.
In an eciuatorial stage the spindle is near the centre of the egg.
The asters are very large, but there is no evidence of centrosome or sphere.
The chromosomes are V-shaped, and split longitudinally, giving V-shaped daughter chromosomes, as in figs.
3a and 36.
Only four specimens in this stage were obtained out of a large number sectioned; and of these, three had either 3 chromosomes in an equatorial plate (figs.
2a and 25) or 6 daughter chromosomes (figs.
3a and 35), and one had 4 in the equatorial plate (fig.
4).
Time and material were lacking to trace the egg from the ovary to the uterus, after it was ascertained that an interA-al of about twenty-four hours occurred between the formation of the first and second polar bodies.
By removing the capsule before the shell is formed and staining with Schneider's aceto-carmine, the second maturation-division can be more advantageously studied than in sections.
Figs.
8-11 were made from such preparations; figs.
5a, 55 and 6, from sections.
In only two cases was the first polar body observed (figs.
6 and 8), and it seems probable that it is usually lost as the egg passes down the oviduct.
The number of egg-chromosomes is 3 in most cases.
In two eggs from the same capsule the number was 6 (figs.
9 and 10), and in a few others 4 and 5 w^ere observed, indicating that, as in Ascaris mcgalocephala and Echinus 7nicrotuberculatus , there may be two forms which occasionally interbreed, one having twice as many chromosomes as the other.
"J'hus an egg having 6 chromosomes fertilized by a spermatozoon having 3 would give an individual having 9 somatic chromosomes and probably 5 chromosomes in germ-cells after reduction.
Union of germ-cells having 3 and 5 chromosomes respectively woiild result in an individual having 8 chromosomes in somatic cells, and 4 in oocytes and spermatozoa.
Figure 8 shows an egg in which there was no doubt about the number 3 in the first polar body (p\), and at the poles of the second maturationspindle (p^ and e).
Figure 7 is a somatic cell containing 6 chromosomes.
Six have also been counted several times in the first segmentation-division.
That the second maturation-division of the chromosomes is longitudinal like the first one is evident from the form of the chromosomes and from the pairs seen at a and h in fig.
10.
Figure 1 1 shows the second polar body separating from the egg.
Spermatogenesis.
— ^As in the case of the ovaries, the testes should be studied in summer after laying-time, in order to follow the development of the spermatogonia, but occasional divisions of spermatogonia and both spermatocyte-di visions may be observed in material preserved at any time during the autumn and winter.
My best material was fixed about the first of December.
PI.
XV, fig.
15, shows a part of the section of a testis which contained dividing spermatogonia (a) , both maturation-divisions (e and /), spermatids in all stages {g,h, i, k, I), and ripe spermatozoa.
In this animal the number of chromosomes in the maturation-divisions was 4, in the spermatogonia 8.
In several others only 3 were found in the spermatocytes (figs.
20 and 22).
Various phases of the first maturation-division are showii in figs.
16-21 and of the second in figs.
22 and 23.
The form of the chromosomes in all phases of both divisions is the same, a Y-shape, easily distinguishable from the V-shaped and U-shaped chromosomes of the spermatogonia and somatic cells.
There is no evidence of a transverse, or reducing, division.
In an anaphase (figs.
20 and 22), each daughter chromosome appears to be drawn toward the pole of the spindle by a single fiber attached to the stem of the Y.
The spindle is composed of very few fibers, and neither centrosomes nor asters have been demonstrated.
The spermatocytes before division appear as in fig.
15, d, and nothing corresponding to the synapsis stage described by various authors has been found.
The spermatogonia in both resting and division-stages closely resemble the so-called embryonic or parenchyma cells which are scattered through the planarian body and play a conspicuous role in regeneration (fig.
15, a).
Figs.
24—32 show^ various stages in the development of the spermatozoon.
The nucleus of the spermatid contracts, forming a small ball of nuclear material which stains deeply and uniformly (figs.
24r-27, a).
This concentrated nucleus gradually elongates (figs.
27, b-29), and finally leaves the cytoplasm tail first (figs.
15 and 29).
Many empty spermatid cells are shown in fig.
15; n. The spermatozoon appears to be formed wholly from the nucleus of the spermatid, and stains like chromatin throughout.
The spermatozoa in the oviduct near the ovary have a knob-like appendage near the anterior end (fig.
32) This appears to be a late development, as it is not found on the spermatozoon in the testes, vasa deferentia, or lumen of the penis.
Emhryological Development.
— As stated above, the first maturationdivision of the egg occurs in the ovary; fertilization probably takes place in the oviduct; and the second maturation-division is found in the forming capsules.
The eggs of capsules just laid always show the two pronuclei with very large nucleoli, as in PI.
XIII, fig.
12, and a few hours later the pronuclei are fused as in fig.
13, but the two nucleoli are distinct.
The development of the eggs during the first day can be best studied in aceto-carmine.
Sections of these and of older capsules may be obtained by piercing the shell with a needle and fixing in sublimate-acetic.
The sheU must be removed before embedding.
The rate of development varies greatly in different capsules, and even among the eggs of the same capsule.
Laying occurs in the morning from daylight to ten o'clock.
In one case the first cleavage-spindle was found at 10.30 A.M. in one egg of a capsule, in which all the others showed the pronuclei not fused.
In other capsules eggs containing the pronuclei were foimd as late as 5 P.M. Two, foiu and eight-celled stages were also occasionally found late in the afternoon.
Figure 14, a, was from an egg stained wdth aceto-carmine at 4.30 P.M.
There were 6 chromosomes at each pole, as shown in fig.
14, h, obtained by focussing down on one end of the spindle.
As in the maturationdivisions, neither centrosome nor sphere could be demonstrated.
The peculiar positions taken by the blastomeres in 2, 4 and 8-celled stages is showTi in PL XIII, figs.
33-36.
Fig.
35 is a reconstruction from five successive sections.
Fig.
36 is a section of a 32-celled stage in which the yolk-cells near the group of blastomeres have begun to break down in the region x x.
The next stage (PI.
XV, fig.'
37) shows a section of an embryo, consisting of a syncitial yolkmass {y^), distinct from the surroimding yolk-cells and disintegrated yolk-material.
The group of blastomeres is always irregular in orm and eccentrically situated, coming to the surface on one s^ide of the yolk-mass.
Some of the blastomeres soon begin to wander through the sjmcitium, and may be found dividing at any point.
A section of a capsule at this stage frequently shows sections of three or four such embryos.
The embryonic yolk-mass gradually increases in size, as may be seen by comparing figs.
37-40, all drawn with the same magnification.
The embryo is partly or wholly surrounded by a region of disintegrated yolk-ceUs (fig.
37, a), from w^liich material for the embryonic syncitium is evidently dra^^^l.
In some cases whole yolk-cells appear to be taken into the syncitium in amoeboid fashion.
In fig.
38, p\ the first cells of the embryonic pharynx are distinguished from the surrounding blastomeres by their different staining qualities.
Figs.
39-41 show the characteristic structure of such a pharynx which is well developed, but not yet functional.
Fig.
40 is a median vertical-section throughthe pharynx, fig.
39 a median cross-section through the central cells (h), and fig.
41 a cross-section through the four inner cells (d).
The cells which surround the lumen of the pharynx are twelve in number — four somewhat flattened surface cells (a), four cylindrical central cells (6), and four nearly spherical inner cells (d).
MetschnikofT ('83) suggests that the latter group of four cells, supposed by some to represent the primary endoderm, may serve as a valve to prevent the escape of yolk-cells.
The central cells are surrounded by a considerable number of smaller cells radially arranged and supposed to be muscle-cells serving to open the pharjmx.
Figs.
39 and 40 also show wandering blastomeres in all parts of the sjmcitial yolk-material of the embryo.
A few of these are flattened to form a partial epithelium.
Fig.
42 is a section through a functional pharynx taking in yolk-cells (y^).
The central cells (6) are much flattened to form the lining of the lumen, and the muscle-cells are lengthened radially.
The two inner cells shown in dotted outline belong to the next section.
Up to the time when the embryonic pharynx becomes functional, the embryo is a solid ball of yolk in the form of a syncitium containing scattered blastomeres, with the developing pharynx at one side, in the region where segmentation began.
Here and there over the surface are flattened blastomeres forming an incomplete epithelium (figs.
39-40).
As the yolk is sucked in, the embryo becomes a hollow ball filled with yolk-cells (figs.
43-47).
[In these and the following figures the space occupied by the yolk cells sucked in by the embryonic pharynx — the secondary j^olk (i/^) — is not filled in.]
Fig.
43 is a section of a nearly spherical embryo from a capsule in which some yolk still remained around the embryos.
Fig.
44 is a cross-section of a flattened embryo of full size, all the yolk outside of the embryos having disappeared.
In these sections the blastomeres (b) are scattered in the primary yolk-material (y^) of the embryonic surface layer of the embryo, and still possess the characteristics of the earlier blastomeres, deeply-staining cytoplasm and large nucleus containing a conspicuous nucleolus.
Figs.
45 and 46 show parts of sections from somewhat older embryos, where the embryonic pharynx (p^) is degenerating and the blastomeres have multiplied so as to nearly fill the embryonic layer, very little yolk remaining among them.
The embryonic pharynx disappears completely before the adult pharynx begins to form, but its relation to that pharynx appears to be the same as in P. maculata, as recently described by Curtis ('02).
In fig.
45 the ventral side of the embryonic layer is easily distinguishable from the dorsal side by its greater thickness, and the degenerating pharynx (p^) is on the dorsal side, as in Curtis's fig.
51, PI.
17.
The embryonic pharpix disappears so early, when many of the embryos are quite irregular in form, that it is impossible to tell whether it has a fixed position relative to the permanent pharynx or not, but my impression is that its position is variable.
There is no evidence whatever that the embryonic pharjmx serves as a tube leading to the anlage of the permanent pharynx, as described by Metsclinikoff ('83) for Planaria polychroa.
Fig.
47 is from a 4-day embryo in which the pharynx-chamber appears as a split in the thickened ventral region of the embryo.
In this stage pigment and rhabdites have begun to appear in the surface epithelium-cells, and rhabdite-cells are found among the embryonic cells, which are no longer like the early blastomeres, but closely resemble the embryonic cells of newly regenerated regions of adult planarians.
Figs.
48 and 49 are sections of an older embryo (5-6 daj^s), showing the permanent ectoderm well developed and full of pigment and rhabdite-cells.
So far as I am able to determine, the ectoderm is formed from the outer embryonic cells and not by division of the earlier scattered epithelium-cells.
There is considerable evidence that rhabdite-cells migrate from the interior to the surface and become a part of the ectoderm.
In this embryo (figs.
48-51) the pharjTix (p^) is quite large and has a lumen connected with the central yolk-area (fig.
50).
The yolk-area is being gradually divided up by strands of cells extending inward from the surface layer of embryonic cells to form the boundaries of the axial gut and its principal branches.
Fig.
52 is from an older embryo (7 or 8 days), in which the development of the digestive tract is quite far advanced.
In fig.
49 there is a section of a very young eye (e), the pigmented cup consisting of only 5 or 6 cells.
No brain is yet distinguishable, but the lateral nerve-cords are represented by a few strands of nerve -fibers (?i).
In fig.
52 the e3'e is much further advanced and the nerve-cords are larger.
The eyes in all embryos of this age are situated much deeper in the tissue than in the adult.
There is as yet no definite endoderm, but here and there are cells with nuclei like those of adult endoderm-cells, and processes extend out from them among the yolk-cells as seen in fig.
51, e. Fig.
53 is a cross-section of an embryo just before hatching (12th dav).
The lumen of the digestive tract is still full of yolk-cells and the endoderm-cells also contain masses of yolk {y-).
Figs.
55 and 56, endoderm-cells containing large masses of yolk, were taken from the same embryo as Fig.
53.
Fig.
57 shows a similar endoderm-cell from a young planaiian one day old.
This cell contains one of the large vacuoles {v) characteristic of adult endoderm-cells, and the yolk is much disintegrated.
Thus it is perfectly plain, in this form at least, that the yolk-cells do not serve as a "vicarious endoderm" (Metschnikoff) ; but endodermcells, developed from the embryonic cells of the one genu laj'er, consume the yolk-cells in the same manner as they do other food material later on.
Fig.
54 is a section from the head region of the same embryo as fig.
53, showing brain (6) and eyes (e).
By the fourth day after birth the yolk has all disappeared from the lumen of the gut, but masses of it are still to be seen in the endoderm-cells.
The late embryos and young planarians contain a very large proportion of embryonic cells and few muscleand gland-cells compared with mature animals.
The tissue of the whole body resembles that of recently regenerated parts of adult planarians.
It is interesting to note that the interval between egg-laying and the developmejit of the permanent pharynx, eyes and ner\ous system in the embryo is about the same as between merotomy and regeneration of the same organs in pieces of adult planarians.
The reproductive organs develop late, and as yet have been studied in only two specimens.
In one yoimg planarian, 8 weeks old, one ovary was found, but no other reproductive or genital organs.
In another, 10 weeks old, there was a small antrum with the penis just forming, but no genital pore; one ovary and three testes were found.
The oocytes in these j^oung ovaries were small and only just distinguishable from the cells of the yoke glands, which were quite well developed.
In the testes there were already mature spermatozoa.
Summary.
The points that seem to need especial emphasis are : 1.
In Planaria simplissima division of the chromosomes in both maturation-divisions is longitudinl.
2.
The number of chromosomes in the maturation-divisions of the germ-cells varies frrom 3 to 6, but is usually 3.
3.
In the embrj^ological development there is nothing corresponding to the typical blastula and gastrula.
After several segmentation divisions the blastomeres form an irregular group embedded in a syncitial yolk-mass which forms a part of the embryo.
Some of the blastomeres form the embryonic pharynx; others wander through the syncitium.
4.
The embryonic layer which covers the secondary yolk (if) takerv in by the embryonic pharynx, in no way corresponds to the ordinar}gastrula-stage.
The sohd embryo has, by sucking in yolk through it-phar3mx, become a hohow ball filled with secondary yoke-cells (i/).
The embryo now consists of a single layer of spicitial yolk-material, containing scattered blastomeres which feed on the primary yolkmaterial and multiply until they occupy the whole space previoush' filled by the primary yolk (figs.
43-46).
Then the inner embryonic cells begin to serve as endoderm-cells to absorb the secondary yolk.
5.
The axial gut and its principal branches are formed by ingrowths from the embryonic layer, dividing up the central space which is filled with secondary yolk (y^).
6.
Ectoderm, endoderm, permanent pharynx, eyes, nervous system, reproductive organs, glandand muscle-cells are ah formed by direct differentiation of the embryonic cells of the ojie embryonic or germlayer.
There is no formation of two or three distinct germ layers, nor are anjof the organs formed by folding as in most other forms.
Literature, Curtis, W. C. '00.
On the Reproductive Sj^stem of Planaria slmplissima, :-.
new species.
Zool.
Jahrb., Bd.
13, 1900.
'02.
The hfe history, the normal fission, and the reproductive organs o;" Planaria maculata.
Proc.
of Boston Soc.
of Nat.
Hist., Vol.
30, 1902.
Hallez, p. '79.
Contributions a I'histoire naturelle des TurbeUaries.
Tra'-.
de Vinstitut zool.
de Lille, Fasc.
2, 1879.
Ijima, I.
'84.
Untersuchungen iiber den Bau und die Entwicklungsgeschichte der siisswasser-Dendrocoelen (Tricladen).
Zeit.
f. wiss.
Zool, Bd.
40, 1884.
Kennel, J.
VON.
'79.
Die in Deutsclilandgefundenen Land-planarien, u. s. w. Arb.
Zool.
Inst.
Wiirzburg, Bd.
5, 1879.
Metschnikoff, E. 'S3.
Die Embryologie von Planaria polychroa.
Zeit.
j. iviss.
Zool., Bd.
38, 1883.
Schmidt, 0.
'59.
Die dendrocoelen Strudelwiirmer aus der Umgebung von Graz.
Zeit.
/.
u't.ss.
Zool., Bd.
X, 1859.
'61.
Untersuchungen liber Turbellarien von Corfu u. Cephalon.
Ibid.. Bd.
XI, 1861.
'61.
Uber Planaria torva, auct.
Ibid.
Stevens N. M. '01.
Notes on regeneration in Planaria lugubns.
Arch.
f.
Entwickelungsmech., Bd.
VIII, 1901.
Description of Plates XIII, XIV, XV axd XVI.
Plate XIII, Fig.
1.
— Ovary showing large oocytes and oviduct full of spermatozoa (od) Bausch and Lamb, obj.
^ in., oc.
C, camera.
Fig.
2, a and b.
— Ovarian egg showing first maturation-spindle with S chromosomes, y = yolk granule.
B. and L. -^-C.
Fig.
3, a and b.
— Same as above with 6 daughter chromosomes.
Fig.
4.
— Same with 4 cliromosomes (a part of one chromosome in next section).
Fig.
5, a and h. — Egg from section of a capsule before laying, showing second maturation-spindle and 3 chromosomes, s = sperm.
Fig.
6.
— Same as above, showing first polar body and 3 chromosomes.
Fig.
7.
— Somatic cell from a regenerating piece of Planaria lugubris, showing 6 chromosomes.
B. and L. ju-C.
Fig.
8.
Egg from a capsule before laying, stained with Schneider's acetocarmine.
p^ = 1st polar body, p'^ = chromosomes of 2d polar body, s = sperm, e = egg-chromosomes.
B. and L. |-C.
Fig.
9.
— Similar egg with 6 egg-chromosomes (e) and 6 chromosomes for the 2d polar body (p^).
Fig.
10.
— Egg from same capsule as 9, showing longitudinal division at a and b.
Fig.
11.
— Similar egg showing 2d polar body (p^), sperm (s) and egg-chromosomes (e).
Fig.
12.
— Egg from capsule just laid showing pronuclei.
Fig.
13.
— Egg from capsule 3-4 hours after laying, showing pronuclei fused but nucleoli distinct.
Fig.
14a.— Egg from a capsule 8-10 hours after laying, showing first segmentation-spindle with 6 cliromosomes at each pole.
Fig.
146.
— Optical cross-section of polar plate, showing two cross-sections of each of the 6 chromosomes.
Figs.
33-35.
— 2-celled, 4-celled and 8-celled stages from sections of capsules, showing the peculiar relative positions of the blastomeres.
Fig.
35 is a reconstruction from five sections.
B. and L. |-C.
Fig.
36.
— Section of a 32(?
)-celled stage, yolk-cells breaking down at x, x.
B. and L. J-C.
Plate XIV, Fig.
15.
— One-half of a cross-section of an unusually large testis.
a = dividing spermatogonium, b = small spermatagonium after di\ision.
c = resting spermatgonium.
d = resting spermatocyte of the first order, e = first maturation division.
/ = second maturation division.
g= young spermatids, /i, i.
A; = spermatids in later stages.
I == spermatid apparently twice the usual size, m = spermatozoa.
n = empty spermatid cells.
B. and L. ^-C. Figs.
16-21.
— Various phases of first maturation divisions, showing 3 and 4 chromosomes.
B. and L. rj— C. Figs.
22 and 23.
— Second maturation division.
Figs.
24-29.
— Spermatids in various stages.
Figs.
30-31.
— Spermatozoa from the testis.
Fig.
32.
— Spermatozoon from the oviduct near the ovary.
B. and L. xV~C.
Plate XV, Fig.
37.— Section of a slightly later stage (64-celled)(?
), showing an irregular mass of blastomeres (b), a definite embryonic yolk-area (y') and a region of disintegrating yolk-cells (a).
B. and L. ^-C.
Fig.
38.
— Section of a still later stage, showing larger embryonic area containing yolk-nuclei (i/), yolk-cells (i/), wandering blastomeres (6), and the beginning of the embryonic pharynx (p').
Same magnif.
Fig.
39.
— Cross-section through the central cells (b) of an embryonic pharynx (pi), well-developed, but not yet functional, c = muscle-cells, yi = yolk-nucleus, bl.
= blastomeres scattered in the yolk of the embryonic area, e = flattened blastomere on the surface of embryo.
Fig.
40.
— Longitudinal-section through an embryonic pharynx of the same age as 39. a = two of the 4 large surface cells bounding the lumen.
b = two of 4 central cells, c = muscle-cells, d = two of the 4 inner lumen-cells, e = a blastomere partly on the surface of the embryo.
7j^ = yolk-nucleus.
B. and L. ^C.
Fig.
41.
— Cross-section of the 4 inner lumen-cells of the embryo shown in Fig.
39.
Fig.
42.
— Functional pharjmx, lumen open and yollv-cells entering.
Same magnif.
Fig.
43 — Section of embryo which has sucked in a large amount of yolk (y^) but is still surrounded by yolk, p^ = functional phar^mx closed.
& == a blastomere in embryonic layer, y^ = yolk-nucleus of embryonic layer.
B. and L. 1-C Fig.
44.
— Section of embryo from a capsule where all the yolk has been absorbed, embryo somewhat flattened.
]/ = yolk taken in by pharynx.
Fig.
45.— Part of a section of an older embryo showing blastomeres filling the embryonic layer, slightly thicker ventral side, and degenerating embryonic pharynx (p').
Fig.
46.
— Small part of section from same embryo showing dividing blastomeres or embryonic cells, very little yolk and few j^olk-nuclei (t/) among the embryonic cells.
B. and L. 3— C. Fig.
47.
— Later embryo (4th day) showing a very early stage in the formation of the permanent pharynx (p^).
e == ectoderm-cell containing pigment and rhabdites.
r = rliabdite-cell.
B. and L. 1-C.
Fig.
48.
— ^Sections from an older embryo (6th day) showing later stage of the pharynx (p-), well-developed ectoderm, and stands of embryonic cells beginning to divide off the central yolk-region into axial gut and its branches, a = endoderm-cells beginning to take in yollccells.
e = very young eye, optic cup of about 5 pigmented cells.
n = first appearance of nerve-cord.
Plate XVI, Fig.
49.— The same as fig.
48.
Fig.
50.
— Another section of pharynx (p^) from same embrj'o.
Fig.
51.
— Section from same embryo, showing endoderm-cells (e) sending out processes among the yolk-cells (//-).
B. and L. i-C.
Fig.
52.
— Section from an older embryo (7-8 days) showing older eye (e), larger nerve-cord (n) and formation of gut more advanced.
Fig.
53.
— Cross-section of 12th day embryo ready to hatch, showing welldeveloped pharjTix (p-) and gut still filled with yolk-cells {y'^).
B. and L. 1-C.
Fig.
54.
— Another section from same embryo showing well-developed eyes and brain (To) Figs.
55-56.
— -Endoderm-cells containing large masses of yolk (y-), from same embryo as Fig.
53.
B. and L. x'— C. Fig.
57.
— Similar endoderm-cell from a young planarian one day old, yolk considerably disintegrated.
Fig.
58.
— Longitudinal section of young planarian, one day old, tail-region shorter than in adult, (e = eye.
h = brain, g = gut.
p= pharynx B. and L. 1-a.
1904.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
221 February 16.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Seventy-eight persons present.
The PubHcation Committee reported that the following communications had been received : "The Fossil Land Shells of Bermuda," by Addison Gulick (February 3).
"Xew, Little Known and Typical Berycoid Fishes," b}^ Henrj^ W. Fowler (February 8).
"Description of a new Race of Notropis chalybseus from Xew Jersey," by Henry W. Fowler (February 8).
"The Larval Eye of Chiton," by Harold Heath (February 10).
Prof. Arthur W. Goodspeed made a communication on radium and the relation of its phenomena to general physical laws, especially those of radiant matter.
(No abstract.)
The following were accepted for publication :
