THE COMPARATIVE AGE OF THE DIFFERENT FLORISTIC ELEMENTS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA.
BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D.
The historic element must be considered in a phytogeographic study of any country.
Many questions concerning the present distribution of plants depend upon the character and extent of the past distribution of the species of any region or formation.
The degree of invasion of new species into a region is determined by the presence or absence of vegetation.
If vegetation is present, then the botanist is compelled to account for its presence by a consideration of the physiographic history of that part of the earth's surface, the association of species and the probable origin of these species, whether indigenous or derived.
The determination of the indigenous and derived species of a formation or larger division is of the utmost importance, as it enables us to retrace the steps by which the formation has reached its present condition and association of species, and to reconstruct formations that have long since disappeared.
The methods which must be adopted in scrutinizing the flora of a country are several: 1.
The botanist must determine the past and present physiography of the region concerned.
2.
He must determine, if possible, the geologic time at which the recorded physiographic changes took place.
3.
He must recognize the indigenous species by eliminating the derived.
4.
A study of the distribution of species will enable him to determine to some extent the age of the different fioristic elements, and the application of the following criteria will also aid him in the solution of questions such as are considered here.
a.
Location of greatest differentiation of type.
b.
Location of dominance or great abundance of individuals.
c. Location of synthetic and closely related forms.
d. Location of maximum size of individuals.
e. Location of greatest productiveness and its relative stability.
/.
Continuity and convergence of lines of dispersal.
g. Location of least dependence upon a restricted habitat.
39 h. Continuity and directness of individual variations, or modifications radiating from the centre of origin along the highways of dispersal.
i.
Direction indicated by biogeographic affinities.^ 5.
Old regions, botanically speaking, may be determined where the number of specific forms of single genera is small, and new regions may be determined where the number of species of single genera is ordinarily very large.
6.
Drude's classification of endemic plants, as corresponding and as relict, is of great assistance to the botanist in determining the age of floristic elements.
Plants are corresponding when the original continuous area of a variable species has been interrupted in such a way as to form several smaller areas occupied by subspecies or new species, while relicts are those species originally of extensive distribution able to maintain themselves in a limited area only on account of changed conditions of life.
Having enunciated these general principles, I will endeavor to apply them in the determination of the age of the different floristic elements of eastern North America.
All of eastern America north of the great terminal moraine which marks the southern boundary of the great ice sheet, with the exception of the nunataks, has been tenanted by plants which have migrated into the territory abandoned by the great continental glacier.
Geologists believe, from evidence afforded by the time that it has taken for the river to cut the gorge at Niagara, that 10,000 or 15,000 years have elapsed since the close of the glacial period.
If their deductions are sound, then the flora of the northern part of eastern America cannot be older than 15,000 years at the outside.
Some of its elements may be much older, and we have reason to believe that many boreal plants existed as such on the nunataks, which were unglaciated areas above the great ice sheet.
The first wave consisted of the distinctly glacial flora, which skirted the border of the ice sheet.
The second wave, younger as a floristic element of the North, consisted of boreal plants, many of which, as bog plants, tenanted the bogs and margins of the glacial lakes that were formerly much more abundant in the North than at present.
These bog and tundra types pushed early into the barren ground left by the retreating ice.
The tundra was closely followed by the coniferous forests on the western and eastern sides of the glaciated areas and these trees constitute a third floristic element, much younger in point of the time in which they have occupied the North.
These trees, and those forming a still younger element, surrounded the bog plant societies which were trapped by the surround' Adams, Chas.
C, Biological Bulletin, III : 122. ing tree vegetation, and as the bog was gradually transformed by biologic influences into firmer ground gradually encroached on the bog plant associations.
Present bog habitats are continuations of similar habitats which existed in early postglacial times, when tundra conditions and tundra vegetation were dominant.^ The fourth element just mentioned consisted of deciduous shrubs and trees, oaks, hickories and the like, which at present are south of the great coniferous belt of forest.
In the East, among the highlands, exceptional circumstances were afforded for the preservation of the northern forms.
The flora of Mount Washington is perhaps an exception to this.
During the glacial period it was a nunatak, and during this time it was tenanted by such plants as Sile^ie acaulis L., Arenaria groenlandica Sprang., Geum radiahnn Michx., Solidago virga-aurea L. var.
alpina Bigel., Prenanthes bootii Gray, Cassiope hypnoides Don, Bryanthus taxifolius Gray, Diapensia lapponica L., Oxyria digyna Hill, Salix phylicifolia L., Salix uva-ursi Pursh, Salix herbacea L., Phleum alpinum L., Lycopodium selago L., etc., which have remained as permanent tenants of this mountain.
If w^e take Mount Washington as a mountain, the summit flora is older than that of the lower alpine slopes of the mountain above timber-line, and the flora, therefore, of these slopes is in turn older than that of such gorges as Tuckerman's Ravine, Huntingdon Ravine and Great Gulf, which probably supported local glaciers for many centuries after the great ice sheet had retreated from the Presidential Range.
Mount Katahdin, 161 miles northeast of Mount Washington, has a less number of alpine plants than that mountain, and most geologists believe it to have been buried entirely beneath the glacial^ ice sheet.
If that is so, then the alpine flora of Mount Katahdin is, as a floristic element, much younger in point of time than that of Mount Washington.
The same differential arrangement of the plants on Mount Katahdin is found as on Mount Washington.
The place where the boreal flora, upon the retreat of the continental ice sheet, encroached upon Mount Katahdin is determined largely by the physiography of the mountain.
The glaciers occupying the various basins of the mountain retarded the re vegetation of the mountain, but with a favorable opportunity the encroachment perhaps began from the southwest and west.
This idea seems to be confirmed by the present distribution of the spruce and fir which ascend higher on this side and their apparently greater age.
As to the east side of the mountain, ^'Transeau, E. N., Botanical Gazette, XXXVI: 401. and in particular the basins, it seems probable that the great basin^ was first tenanted by plants, and that the North Basin opposed this migration a much larger time for the reason that this basin, which presents a scene of desolation, was the seat of a local valley glacier which was, perhaps, the last to disappear.
As a consequence, the basin presents an appearance even more xerophytic and alpine than some of the upper parts of the mountain itself.
The pucker bush (Krummholz) reaches here an unusual development, with the trees lying in most places prostrate and gnarled and twisted to a high degree.
The swamp societies of the northern America stand in contrast to the bog societies made up of more southerly forms, and must be considered to be the normal hydrophytic vegetation of present climatic conditions.
The swamps of the North have had a much later origin than the bogs, for we find that if the depressions provided with water have existed since the days of the tundra they may show a bog flora to-day; if they are of recent origin the plants will correspond to the normal swamp plants of the present climatic conditions.
Another interesting problem which presents itself is that of the presence of typical seashore plants on the coasts of the Great Lakes.
Such plants as Ammophila arundinacea Hast., Sabbatia angularis Piu'sh, Lathyrus 7naritimus Bigel., Hudsonia tomentosa Nutt., Cakile americana Nutt., Hibiscus moscheutos L., Gerardia purpurea L., Euphorbia polygonifolia L., Myrica cerifera L., Strophostyles peduncularis Ell.
are found not only on the shores of the Great Lakes, but some of them near the Lake of the Woods.
The most satisfactory explanation seems to be that in post-glacial times the valleys of the St. Lawrence, Hudson, Lake Champlain, and probably also Lakes Ontario and Superior, were then occupied by the sea, because of the northeasterly depression of the land.
During this period of submergence the typical seashore plants gained access to the interior of the continent.
The country south of the great ice sheet shows some interesting problems of geographic distribution in line with the subject of this paper.
The northward extension of the pine barren flora on Long Island and Staten Island is a case in point.
* The soil of the region is generally sandy, but is occasionally more firm where strata of clay approach and form the surface.
The geological formations to the south and southeast of a line drawn from a point below Long Branch to another near the head of Delaware Bay ^ Harvey, L. H., "A Study of the Physiographic Ecology of Mount Katahdin, Maine," University of Maine Studies, No.
5, December, 1903.
^Cf.
N. L. Britton, on the "Northward Extension of the N. J. Pine Barren on Long and Staten Islands," Bulletin Torrey Botanical Club, VII, 81, July, 1880. are Tertiary, while those to the north of it are Cretaceous.
The Tertiary soils extend southward along the Atlantic to Florida.
As the soil over both the Cretaceous and Tertiary is composed of similar materials, it is impossible to say, from surface indications, where one ends and the other begins.
We will deal with the flora of the northern extension of these sandy stretches of Cretaceous age.
On Staten Island these strata are exposed in its extreme southern portion.
They doubtless extend over the entire southern and eastern sections, but are mostly covered by a layer of material of variable thickness derived from the glacial drift.
On Long Island, the great terminal moraine occupied a position marked by a range of hills extending throughout its whole length at an average distance of ten miles from the Atlantic.
South of these hills sandy plains prevail, the material composing them having been formed partly from the modified drift of the hills, partly from the underlying Cretaceous strata.
Those species detected on the Cretaceous soils of Staten Island, and not on the drift, are thirty-four in number: Magnolia glaiica L., Hudsonia ericoides L., Ascyrum cnix-andrece L., Arenaria squarrosa Mich., Polygala lutea L., Tephrosia virginiana Pers., Desmodiuvi Icevigatum D. C, Desmodium viridiflorum Beck, Rubus cuneifolivs Pursh, Crataegus parvifolia Ait., Eupatorium rotundifolium L., Asteynemoralis Ait., Aster concolor L., Chrysopsis mariana Nutt., Gnaphalium purpureum L., Gaylussacia dumosa J. and G., Andromeda mariana L., Kalmia angustifolia L., Ipomoea pandurata ^leyer, Phlox suhulata L., Asclepias^ohtusijolia ]\Iichx., Eupliorhia ipecacuanha; L., Quercus nigra L., Quercus prinoides Will., Quercus phellos L., Spiranthes simplex Gray, Juncus scirpoides Lam.
var.
macrostemon, Xyris flexuosa Muhl., Cyperus cylindricus N. L. B., Stipa avcnacca L., Glyceria ohtusa Tin., Panicum verrucosum Muhl., Andropogon macrourus Michx., Lycopodium inundatum L. var.
higelovii Tuck.
Of these the following four have been detected in Suffolk County, Long Island : Desmodium viridiflorum Beck, Rubus cuneifolius Pursh, Ipomoea pandurata Meyer, Phlox subulata L. In addition to the above list, however, the following sixteen additional species have been detected in Suffolk county, Long Island : Drosera filiformis Raf ., Ascyrum stans Michx., Eupatorium hyssopifolium L., Eupatorium leucolepis T. and G., Eupatorium album L., Aster spectabilis Ait., Solidago puberula Nutt., Chrysopsis falcata Ell., Helianthus angustifolia L., Coreopsis rosea Nutt., Utricidaria subulata Le Conte, Cupressus thyoides L., Juncus pelocarpus E. Meyer, Xyris caroliniana Walt., Eleocharis melanocarpa Torr., Sporobolus serotinus Gray.
Thus it appears that thirty-four of these characteristic pine barren 'plants grow in the southern part of Staten Island, and that forty-six of them have been detected in Suffolk county, Long Island.
It would seem that these species have a tendency to follow the course of the two more recent geologic formations throughout their whole extent along the Atlantic coast.
Another fact which stands out prominently in this connection is that not a single one of the above-mentioned plants, growing, as we have seen, along the edge of the glacial drift, is native of Europe, but belong to a true American flora, which had its origin in the southern part of the continent and migrated northward into Staten Island and Long Island at the close of the great ice age.
In contrast to this fact we have another one, equally prominent, and that is, that of the species of plants growing on the morainic material about one-third are common to northern Europe and America, thus pointing to a common origin of each in the territory now occupied by the ice and snow of the Arctic regions.
The flora north of the morainic line in Staten Island and Long Island clearly antedates in point of occupancy of the country the more southern and American pine barren flora, wliich migrated northward at a date subsequent to the migration of the flora with strong European affinity.
Another interesting illustration of the historic factors instrumental in plant distribution is afforded by the peculiar flora of the Kittatinny or Shawangunk mountains of northwestern New Jersey, This mountain chain forms a wall of almost constant altitude, averaging over 1,200 feet in height, along the eastern side of the Delaware river from Port Jervis to the Delaware Water Gap.
Its summits and western slopes are composed of a coarse or fine, very hard silicious conglomerate or sandstone, with little soil but that derived from the limited disintegration of these rocks, and it is therefore highly silicious.
While the mountain sides are extensively glaciated there is very little glacial drift on the ridge.
On these mountains exist a number of plants which are also found in great numbers in sandy soil along the Atlantic coast.
Among the species which are thus noteworthy, as discovered by N. L. Britton, are: Juncus greenii Oakes and Tuckerm., Solidago puberula Nutt., Orontium aquaticum L., Tephrosia virginiana Pers., Lespedeza hirta Ell., Lupinus perennis L., Quercus ilicifolia Wang., Corema conradii Torrey.
At Culver's Gap were found by Britton : Polygala polygama Walt., Gerardia pedicularia L., Lechea racemulosa Michx., all abundant in sandy soil along the coast, and Prumis pumila L. At Sunfish Pond, northwest of the Water Gap, occur Juncus militaris Bigel., Lycopodium inundatum L., Vibwnium nudum L. While all along the mountains grow Aster linariifolius L., Quercus ilicifolia, Gaylussacia resinosa |Tott and Gray, G. frondosa Torrey and Gray, Vaccinium vacillans Sol., Epigcea repens L., Gaultheria procumbens L., Cassandra calyculata Don and Rhododendron viscosum Torrey.
Another peculiarity is the substitution of Pinus rigida ^lill on the mountains for the Piniis slrobus L. of the surrounding country.
The ridges of the Green Pond system, known at Greenwood Lake as Bearfort and Bellvale mountains, and in New York as the Skimnemunk, have a somewhat similar summit flora, consisting of Quercus ilicifolia Wang., Solidago puberula Nutt., Tephrosia virginiana Pers., Lespedeza hirta Ell., Arctostaphylos uva-ursi Spreng, Aster linariifolius L., various huckleberries, blueberries and other sand plants.
The reason for the somewhat remarkable similarity of the pine barren and summit mountain floras is usually attributed to the similarity of the soil on the mountains to that of the plains bordering the coast.
It is probably true that the plants occupy these areas because they have adapted themselves to growing in soils of silicious sands, but to say that the soil is the prime factor in their distribution is putting the case too strongly.
The writer believes, from an investigation that he has made of the problems involved, that the flora of the mountaiixs is peculiarly an endemic one, showing relict endemism, and that the flora of the pine barren is a derived one, and is an illustration of Drude's principle enunciated above.
The crest of the Kittatinny Mountains represents the level of a plain that existed prior to the great period of erosion which carved out the mountain ranges and has been several times elevated and depressed.
During the period of its more extensive plain character, the plants above mentioned were distributed over the area now represented by the crests of the Shawangunk Mountains in New Jersey and the Skunnemunk Mountains in New York.
With the wearing away of the plain this more ancient flora remained in a relict form on the summits of the mountains mentioned.
This antedated many years the upheaval of the New Jersey coast plain, which was, after its appearance above the surface of the sea.
an open field for the migration of plants from nearby formations.
The pioneers into the elevated coastal plain were those species nearest at hand and most mobile and, by reason of occupancy of a similar soil, well adapted to meet the new conditions of environment.
If we apply these principles to the prolslem in hand, we naturally reach the conclusion that certain plants of the coastal flora are derived from the formations nearest at hand which present similar environmental conditioas, and are, therefore, for the coastal region comparatively new, so that the summit flora of the mountains may be looked upon as relatively older in point of time than that occupying the territory along the sea coast.
An interesting confirmation of this position is found in a study of the succession of the floras on the Pocono Mountain plateau, following the destruction of the original forest by lumber operators.
The original vegetation of this plateau consisted, as far as I have been able to determine, of four elements, viz.
: a forest of pitch pine, Pinus rigida Mill., which covered the looser morainic material of the great terminal moraine in the eastern and southern parts of the plateau; the broadleaved deciduous forest with its oaks and associated species on the eastern slopes and edge of the tableland ; the chestnut and black locust forest which occupied Laurel Ridge along the western rim of the plateau, and a forest of white pine with a thicket of Rhododendron maximum L. beneath, mixed in many places with the black spruce, Picea nigra Link, the red maple and other plants characteristic of the Catskill mountains and farther north, grading over to a hemlock forest in the region of Tobyhanna.
The open sphagnum bogs culminated in the presence of the larch, Larix americana Michx., with which were associated Kalmia glauca Ait., Ledum latifolium Ait., Rhododendron rhodora Don, and other northern plants.
With the destruction of the white pine, hemlock and pitch pine forests, the vegetation of this tableland has undergone an entire change.
The succession of the species has not been worked out in detail, but what has been observed is instructive.
The botanist is impressed by the general appearance of the landscape.
The flora over the eastern half of the i^lateau in aspect resembles that of the pine barren regions of southern New Jersey, from which the original pitch pine and Jersey pine have been cut.
A study of the species shows that this appearance is due to the close similarity of the flora in the plant species w^hich constitute the tw^o regions.
We have an instructive example of mass invasion of such plants as Quercus ilicifolia Wang., Pinus rigida Mill., Gaylussacia resinosa Torr.
and Gray, Vaccinium vacillans Solander, Epigcea repens L., Gaultheria procumbens L., Rhododendron viscosuni Torr., Kcdmia angustifolia L., Lilium philadelphicuni L., Amianthium musccBtoxicum Gray, Lycopodium inundatum L., etc., from the morainic hills westward into the region occupied by the white pines.
We naturally inquire from what locality the pitch pine formation has proceeded, and it seems to me we are forced to conclude that this association of species has been derived, not from the barrens of New Jersey, but from the nearby mountains northwest of the Delaware Water Gap which, as previously mentioned, support such a flora.
This relict flora on the Kittatinny and other highlands has been under iini;siial stress of circiims-tances, and when more favorable, but on the whole similar, edaphic conditions were supplied, a mass invasion from these mountain highlands took place at two different and widely divergent periods of time in two directions.
After the uplift of the Jersey pine barrens region, the nearby flora of the upland plateaus being edaphically better adapted to the new region, supplied the barren ground with a vegetable covering.
Similarly, when the glaciers retreated a mass invasion of pitch pines and associated species moved from the unglaciated Kittatinny Mountains on to the sandy gravelly soil of the great moraine, and when the lumbermen disturbed the forest these plants, adapted to growing in sandy soils and exposed to xerophytic conditions, supplied the constituent elements of the present flora in the greater part of the eastern half of the plateau.
A consideration of the strand flora of New Jersey, upon which I have spent considerable study, reveals the fact that the time element is important in an explanation of the distribution of the seashore plants.
If we contrast the character of the association on the northern and southern shore of New Jersey, we find that the formations on Barnegat beach, for example, are usually open, while those on Wildwood beach are closed and have culminated in the forest type of vegetation.
This argues for a greater age of the strand flora of Wildwood, as compared with that, for example, at Sea Side Park in the north.
This conclusion is substantiated by the fact that the bays behind the sandy sea islands are converted into salt marshes in the south, while in the north they are wide and still open bays of brackish or salt water.
Physiographically and botanically the coast line from Bay Head south to Ocean City is younger than the coast south of the latter place extending to Cape May.
The latest periods of submergence and uplift had a powerful influence on the distribution of sea-coast species.
The present distribution of the swamp rose-mallow, Hihisms moschevtos, in the Atlantic coastal plain illustrates this.
The plant normally occurs in brackish marshes from Massachusetts to Florida and Louisiana and on lake shores in saline situations locally in the interior to western Ontario.
When it occurs in fresh-water swamps it is reasonably certain that these swamps represent a converted salt marsh present during a former time of submergence.
New Jersey shows this best.
During the Pensauken submergence southern central New Jersey was an extensive sea island separated from northern New Jersey by Pensauken Sound.
Hibiscus moscheutos in its present distribution in New Jersey follows the former shore line of that ancient island, for it occurs in the salt marshes of the coast, on both banks of the Delaware river to the head of tide water, and also in fresh-water marshes along the New York Division of the Pennsylvania Railroad between Trenton and Newark, the roadbed between these cities being laid upon the geologic site of the Pensauken Sound.
South of New Jersey the region, including southeastern Pennsylvania, may be divided historically according to the age of the flora into several well-marked divisions.
1.
The flora of the Southern Appalachians and its northeastern extension into southern and southeastern Pennsylvania, The facts presented in two former papers-^ all argue for the great antiquity of the flora of North Carolina and southeastern Pennsylvania, because this flora, in all probability, represents the more or less modified descendants of that characteristic flora which in later Eocene or Miocene time extended to high northern latitudes.
2.
The flora of the coast plain occupied by the long leaf pine with its associated species, which probably represent the ultimate stages of successions initiated at the time of the final elevation of the sea bottom along the coast line.
These plants probably entered the elevated coastal region by a mass invasion from a circimiscribed area contiguous to the Atlantic shore line, for it has been established that contiguous vegetation furnishes 75-90 per cent, of the constituent species of an initial formation.
The reason for this is to be found not only in the fact that adjacent species have a much shorter distance to go and hence will be carried in greater quantity, but also in that species of the formations beyond must pass through or over the adjacent ones.
In the latter case, Clement states that the "number of disseminules is relatively small on account of the distance, w^hile invasion through the intermediate vegetation, if not entirely impossible, is extremely slow, so that plants coming in by this route reach the denuded area only to find it already occupied.
"*^ 3.
Plants of probable Neotropic origin which have, according to Kearney, in all likelihood made their first appearance in the Appalachian region in geologically very modern times, probably after the close of the so-called glacial epoch.
* Harshberger, J. W.", "An Ecologic Study of the Flora of Mountainous North Carohna," Botanical Gazette, XXXVI, 241-258, 368-383, 1903, and "A Phytogeographic Sketch of Extreme Southeastern Pennsylvania," Bulletin Torrey Botanical Club, XXXI, 125-159, March, 1904.
* Clements, Frederick E., "Studies of the Vegetation of the State, III.
— The Development and Structure of Vegetation," Botanical Survey of Nebraska, 1904.
4.
A relict flora of a former widespread plateau region, similar to the one mentioned for northeastern Pennsylvania, in which we find a close similarity between the flora of some of the higher mountain summits and the flora of the coastal plain.
We have previously mentioned in the physiographic changes which have taken place in this mountain region an explanation of such peculiarities of distribution.
The presence of Hudsonia montana Nutt.
on the summit of the Table Rock is probably thus explained, for Table Rock represents an undenuded remnant of a former jDeneplain.
It is likely, therefore, that Hudsonia montana Nutt.
was once more extended in its distribution, but has been isolated by the erosion of the plain on which it formerly grew in abundance.
The presence of LeiophyUum buxifolium Ell., Xerophyllum asphodeloides Nutt., Amianthium rnusccBtoxicum Gray on the mountain summits and on the coastal plain is also similarly explained.
5.
The distribution of plants in the southern extremity of Florida is an interesting confirmation of the historic development of a flora.
Seven plant formations can be recognized, viz.
: (1) The sea-strand formation; (2) The mangrove swamp formation; (3) The everglade formation; (4) The grassland (" prairie " ) formation; (5) The savanna formation; (6) The pine-land formation; (7) The hummock-land formation.
Historically the sea-strand formation and the hummock-land formation are the oldest, floristically speaking.
The strand flora, consisting of such plants as Uniola paniculata, Panicwn amarurti, Ipoincea pes-caprce, Batatas littoralis, Iva imhricata, Cakile maritima, Agave decipiens (ontropic section), has existed as an element of the flora of peninsular Florida since the land was elevated above the sea, and perhaps was derived from an earlier seashore flora which existed along the shore of the mainland or the coasts of the larger and more elevated sea islands.
Nearly all the tropic species recently added to the flora of the United States were discovered in or about the hummocks, which are essentially duplicated by similar formations in the West Indies.
The total area of the hummock-land is relatively insignificant when compared with the pine-lands, yet the flora, as shown in the enumeration below^, is as rich, if not comparatively richer; Pine-lands, 43 per cent.
Hummocks, 42 " Everglades, 15 " The hummocks consist of isolated groups of hardwood trees, shrubs and vines.
These hummock formations with an overlying soil thicker than the pine-lands, due without doubt to the accumulation of vegetal detritus, vary in size from an acre to many hundred acres, and are scattered as islands in the everglades and pine forests instead of surrounded by the ocean, as they formerly were before the sea bottom between them became dry land by elevation.
The trees, shrubs and woody vines harbor an almost incredible growth of plants of various categories.
The growth of epiphytes is especially striking, for in numerous cases the tree trunks and branches are completely clothed with air plants, and so prolific are the orchids and bromeliads that many individuals are forced to growth on the ground and on the neighboring pine trees.'
Here occur the great majority of flowering plants now known to be common both to the West Indies and the mainland of North America.
As the rock of New Providence Island, of the Bahama group, is essentially identical with that of the Florida south of Miami, and as there are many trees and shrubs common to the two regions, as well as to Cuba, while many species are endemic to each of the three regions, we are forced to conclude from the evidence that the flora gives that geologically and to a certain extent floristically the hummocklands formed originally part of the Antillean region.
The hummocklands, perhaps, represent part of the ancient system of Keys which existed at the time when the Gulf Stream left the American Mediterranean through a channel which existed across the northern half of Florida.
It was when these islands formed an extended archipelago coextensive with the Bahamas that the hummocks were occupied by their present flora, which, therefore, shows the closest relationship to that of the nearby Bahama islands.
With the elevation of the land through the epeirogenic movements of the earth's crust, through the agency of coral polyps, vegetation, ocean and wind currents, the Gulf Stream was directed into its present channel and the sea islands which now exist in south Florida in the form of hummocks were connected by dry land or by partially submerged banks to form the present peninsula of Florida.
With the appearance of level plains by the removal of the shallow sea over a sandy bottom, the isolated trees and herbaceous plants which associated together constitute the savanna formation appeared and clothed the ground.
Imperceptibly these savannas were transformed by the appearance of trees into the pine-land formation.
This formation is characterized by a scattering growth of Pinus heterophyUa ' Consult the articles by J. K. Small, and N. L. Britton, in Journal New York Botanical Garden, III, No.
26, February, 1902; IV, No.
39, March, 1903; V, No.
51, March, 1904; V, No.
5.5.
July, 1904; V, No.
56, August, 1904, to which the writer is indebted for many facts herein set forth under the new cloak of generalization.
and numerous shrubs, shrubby herbs and herbaceous perennials, together with a few annuals.
Four species of palms belonging to the genera Sabal, Serenoa, Coccothrinax, and the Sago palm, Zamia floridana, are prominent representatives of the pine-land formation.
These pine-lands are light and any, with comparatively thin soil.
The growth of timber is scattered and the plants found in this formation are not duplicated in the West Indies.
Relatively, then, the flora of the pine-land formation is younger than that of the hummocks, and may be older or younger than the everglade formation, according to whether this association of species encroached on elevated plain land or whether it captured grassland or an everglade formation.
The evolution of the pine woods may be represented for sake of clearness diagrammatically as follows : Very Shallow Water Dry Elevated Sea Bottom Swamps I Savanna Grassland Pine Woods The culmination from either condition has been a pine forest.
The everglades, then, historically speaking, may be older than the pine woods, or they may be younger.
WTiatever their position in point of time, they cover an area of about one hundred miles wide and perhaps one hundred and fifty miles long, the elevation being about eighteen feet above sea-level.
This area consists of an extended saw-grass swamp traversed by winding river channels, and covered with scattered hmnmock-lands.
Its flora consists of grasses, sedges and other herbaceous plants, among which are many aquatic and mud-inliabiting plants.
The vegetation of the everglades is of a more northern character than that of the hummock-lands.
The mangrove formation represents an important element in the flora of southern Florida.
The mangrove swamps are particularly abundant along salt or brackish shores and along the sea islands, the so-called Florida Keys.^ Their vegetation is confined almost exclusively to the mangrove trees and such few Tillandsias and orchids as grow upon their branches.
Frequently on the borders of these swamps occurs a large showy species of AcrosticJium with leaves often six to eight feet long.
The area shut off from the sea by the fringe of man* Phillips, O. P., "How the Mangrove Tree adds New Land to Florida," The Journal of Geography, II, 1-14, January, 1903.
614 [Sept., groves becomes dry ground and eventually grassland (in Florida " prairie" ).
The results of this survey as to the southern extremity of Florida may be arranged below: Ancient Strand Flora Ancient Sea Island Flora Northern Element Plain Flora Swamp Flora Savanna Flora -^ Grassland Present Strand Flora \ > Pine-land Flora Present Hummock Flora Lastly are the ruderal plants and weeds that, introduced by the hand of man, have become established in America.
The history of the introduction and spread of many of these plants is known to an exactness, whereas many have appeared and become established the history of which is involved in considerable doubt.
The time which has elapsed since the advent of these outsiders does not exceed two or three hundred years, and yet in that time many American varieties of common European plants have by mutation or otherwise arisen to demarcate the American from the European forms.
I have endeavored to present in this paper the fact that the component elements of the flora of eastern North America have had an historic development, and I have attempted to give the methods of determining their relative or comparative age, as well as the philosophic reasons underl3ang their distribution.
The outcome of these observations may be tabulated and arranged as follows, the top of the table representing the oldest elements of our flora: 1904.]
615 fH ^ w a CQ u e O eo S -s § -ta a <u a a> ^-4 S f=^ ;z; DESCKIPTIONS OF NEW LAND SNAILS OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.
BY H. A. PILSBRY and Y. HIRASE.
In January of this year collecting was begun in Tokuno-shima, Osumi, in the Riukiu chain, by ^Ir.
Nakada, whose laurels as a collector have been won by his able campaigns in the Islands of Izu (1903) and other parts of the empire.
His work was continued in the islands southward, Okinoerabu-shima and Yoron-jima, completing the chain from Oshima to Okinawa or Riukiu.
Kume-jima, Riukiu, an islet west of Okinawa, was then visited.
No land mollusks had been collected from any of these islands ; and Mr. Nakada's results, as they are studied, are found to add enormously to our zoogeographic data on the Riukiu group.
The Miyakojima subgroup of the Southwestern islands was also further explored, and some remarkable species of genera or subgenera new to the fauna were obtained, such as Pledopylis hirasei, a species of Chinese type, and Diplommatina vespa P. and H. The Clausiliidce obtained by ]\Ir.
Nakada greatly enlarge our knowledge, about doubling the number of Riukiuan species, and adding several new endemic groups, especially to the Zaptychoid phylum.
Meantime Mr. Azuma has been collecting in southern Kyushu, chiefly in Satsuma and its islands, particularly the Koshikijima group.
His results are good, although, as was expected, the number of new species discovered was not great.
Some unexpected forms were found, such as Sitala rimicola Bens., a Himalayan species, and Clausilia azumai, a fine snail belonging to the Riukiuan group Luchuphcedusa .
A collector has also been sent to Ivita-iwo-jima, of the Sulphur group, near Ogasawara-jima, but the results were disappointing.
It seems to be, from the faunal indications, a very recent volcanic island.
It will be remembered that Mr. Hatai lost his life a few years ago in an attempt to collect upon these remote islets.
The present paper deals only with the new species and subspecies received, exclusive of the Clausiliidce.
CYCLOPHORID^.
Japonia tokunoshimana n. sp.
Shell turbinate-conic, umbilicate, olive-brown, somewhat shining.
Sculpture of close fine growth-strise, and fine spiral striae with much larger threads at intervals, becoming much weaker on the penultimate and earlier whorls.
Whorls 4^, the last tubular, bearing a series of flat paddle-shaped cuticular processes at the shoulder and another at the periphery.
Aperture circular, the peristome simple, interrupted a short distance where it touches the previous whorl.
Alt.
3.75, diam.
4 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,512, A. X.
8.
P., from No.
1,206 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form is a little larger than J .
barbata Old.
of Oshima, Osumi, and has not the two more conspicuous spiral ridges described for that species.
The flat spatulate cuticular processes upon the last whorl are very readily lost, and probably never perfectly preserved in adult shells.
Alycseus purus n. sp.
Shell much depressed, oblong in contour, Avhite, the first whorl rufous tinted.
Whorls 3 J, convex, those of the spire nearly smooth, the last whorl very closely, finely and delicately rib-striate as far as the neck, which is decidedly constricted and smooth, the whorl enlarging and striate again beyond it.
The last half of the last whorl is much enlarged and straightened, making the umbilicus oblong.
The sutural tube is long.
The aperture is oblique, circular; the peristome is thin, with a small delicate collar close to the edge.
Alt.
1.7, diam.
3 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,683, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,219 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The sculpture is much finer than in ^1.
tancgashimcc, and the neck is more constricted.
It is more depressed than most Japanese species^ and it is more oblong in outline, viewed from above.
Alycaeus tokunoshimanus n. sp.
Shell depressed, light red.
Whorls 3^, the first smooth and glossy,, the following ones nearly smooth to the last whorl, which is very densely and finely rib-striate, the strise weak or wanting on the neck.
The last half of the last whorl is much enlarged and somewhat straightened,, moderately constricted at the neck, enlarged beyond it and deeply deflexed.
The aperture is oblique, circular; the peristome continuous^ thickened outside and bevelled to the edge.
Alt.
2.3, diam.
3.7 mm.
Tokuno.shima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,505, A. N. S. P., from No.
931a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This shell is sculptured much as in .4. purus, and is nearly as depressed as that species, but it is larger, colored, less oblong in peripheral 40 outline, with the neck nearer the aperture and the peristome stronger.
The sutural "tube" is long, as in A. purus.
Alyoseus laevicervix n. sp.
The shell is rather depressed, light olive greenish.
Whorls 3^, the first projecting and smooth, the rest finely rib-striate and latticed by lower, finer spiral strioe.
The last half of the last whorl is swollen, with closer rib-striaj, the spirals becoming obsolete.
The sutural "tube" is short and irregular.
The neck is moderately contracted, and smooth to the aperture.
Aperture oblique, circular, the peristome somewhat thickened, with a low thin rib close to the edge.
Alt.
3.7, diam.
4 nun.
Kuchinoerabushima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,699, A. N. 8.
P., from No.
1,280 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is related to A. satsumanus, but it is larger, with a shorter sutural "tube," a smooth neck, and more prominent spiral striae.
Pupinella oshimae tokunoshimana n. subsp.
The shell is dirty white, more slender than P. oshimce, and umbilicate, the umbilicus half covered by the lip, and bounded by a very strong keel.
The upper or anal notch of the aperture is narrow, straight and oblique, its two bounding walls of nearly equal length, while in P. oshimce the outer lip of the canal is decidedly shorter than the inner, and the canal is thus enlarged and opens more backwards.
The parietal callous and that at the opening of the anal canal are less extensive than in P. oshimce.
Length 9.3, diam.
above aperture 4, greatest diam.
5 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,506, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,214 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Cyolotus nudus n. sp.
Shell openly umbilicate, lusterless, whitish under a very thin slightly yellov\-ish cuticle, readily lost, with an opaque whitish sutural margin from which short whitish streaks radiate.
The surface is but slightly roughened by growth-lines, and an intermediate whorl of the spire is very finely, closely striate spirally; the last Ih whorls hardly or not showing spirals.
The spire is small and acutely conic.
The first 1^ whorls are brown, project nipple-like, and are distinctly tilted.
Whorls 41 to 4^, very convex, the last tubular, barely in contact with the preceding at the apertiu-e.
The aperture is circular, vertical, the peristome simple.
The operculum is whitish and lodges just within the peristome, is concave externally, with a sunken smooth nucleus and a'spiral lamella closely re^•oh■ing on the other whorls.
Alt.
6, diam.
7.5 mm.
Alt.
5.5, diam.
7 mm.
Miyakojima, Riukiii.
Typos No.
87,633, A. N. S. P.. from Xo.
1,296 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species has a more elevated spire than the related C. minutus of Formosa.
Cyathopoma iota n. sp.
Shell minute, umbilicate, conic, thin, yellowish corneous, subtranslucent.
Surface glossy, nearly smooth.
Whorls 3^, very convex, tubular, parted by a deep suture, the last whorl at the aperture barely in contact with the preceding.
Aperture slightly oblique, circular, the peristome thin and simple.
The operculum lodges a short distance within, is externally somewhat concave, cream-colored, concentrically delicately striate, with a large somewh^^t sunken glossy translucent central spot.
Alt.
1, diam.
1.3 mm.
Kumejima, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,698, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,292 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is intermediate in contour between the Japanese C. micron Pils.
and C. innocens Sykes of Ceylon.
It is much more elevated than the former species.
This species and Cyclotus micron belong evidently to the subgenus Jerdonia of the genus CyatJiopoma, the operculum being discoidal and somewhat biconcave, as in Cyclotus.
Both Cyathopoma and Jerdonia are Indian groups, not hitherto reported from China or from any part of the Japanese Empire.
DIPLOMMATINID^.
The Diplommatinas of Japan and the Riukiu Islands are very closely related to those of China.
Besides Adelopoma,^ two subgenera or sections of Diplommatina are represented.
I.
— Constriction at the beginning of the last whorl, in front, or on the latter part of the penultimate whorl on the right side ; a palatal plica and a parietal or "spiral" lamella developed in front of the constriction, to which the columellar lamella also extends.
Section Sinica Mlldff.
II.
— Constriction in the first part of the penultimate whorl, on the front or left side; the columellar lamella therefore nearly two whorls long; a palatal plica but no parietal lamella developed.
Section Angigaster, type D. vespa P. and H. Sinicaincludes all of the known Japanese and Riukiuan species 1 Nautilus, XVII, p. 59.
2 Vide Jahrb.
D. Malak.
Ges., XII, 1885, p. 369.
The type of Sinica is Diploma matina sculptilis MUdff., from the Chinese province Guang-dung.
except D. vespa.
which represents a line of differentiation parallel to the Bornean Paradianda.
Diplommatina tosana n. .<p.
Shell imperforate, cylindric, the upper third conical, tapering; light red, darker red toward the apex, paler and sometimes more of a yellow tint toward the last whorl; closely, finely and delicately rib-striate throughout, the striae becoming more widely spaced on the cone, the first whorl smooth.
Whorls Qh, the last rounded below, ascending in front.
The weakly marked constriction near the end of the penultimate Avhorl is close to the peristome, being immediately behind it.
The aperture is round-ovate; peristome narrowly refiexed, strengthened by a "collar" or lamella a short distance behind it.
The parietal callous extends nearly to the suture above.
The columellar lamella is strong.
Palatal plica long, visible through the parietal callous, and not extending beyond it.
Length 3, diam.
1.7 mm.
Nogawa, Tosa.
Types No.
84,190, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,026 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The constriction and palatal plica lie farther back than in D. cassa, which is also a more slender species.
Diplommatina tosanella n. .■>]).
This form is very similar to D. kyushucnsis in contour and appearance.
The last two whorls are dull red, the rest of the spire l^right orange-red.
Sculpture of fine close rib-strise on the last two whorls, while on the spire the intervals between riblets are about twice as wide.
Whorls nearl}' 6+, convex, the slight constriction being in the middle of the front side, visible externally as an obliciue light line; the last whorl is rounded below.
Aperture nearly circular, the peristome thickened outside.
Parietal callous rather small, not approaching the suture above.
The columellar tooth is small.
Palatal plica short, wholly to the left of the parietal callous and situated as high as its upper edge.
The columellar and spiral lamellte and palatal plica are low inside, not nearly so strong as in D. kijushuensis.
Alt.
2.6, diam 1.3 mm.
Nogawa, Tosa.
Types No.
87,642, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,026a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
D. cassa is decidedly more cylindrical and more evenly striate than this species.
Diplommatina gibbera n. sp.
Shell cylindric below, the upper half tapering in a rather long straight cone ; varying from dull red with an orange lip to nearly white, with the lip pale yellowish Very delicately and evenly striate throughout.
Whorls 6^, convex, the last whorl very obtusely angular at the base, very much swollen on the ventral face to the left of the parietal callous.
It is distinctly constricted in front, at or shortly in front of the insertion of the outer lip.
The aperture is very irregular in shape, the peristome strongly thickened outside, bevelled and obtuse, the l^ack of the lip-thickening lacing white.
Columellar margin straightened, vertical, the columella bearing a strong tooth.
Parietal callous extending in a rather narrow lobe nearly to the suture.
Palatal plica long, in large part overlaid by the parietal callous.
Alt.
3, diam.
1.6 mm.
Nomimura, Tosa.
Types No.
87,643, A. X. S. P., from Xo.
1,027 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is readily distinguished by the conspicuous swelling of the last whorl in front of the aperture.
The tapering portion of the spire is longer than in most allied species.
Diplommatina goniobasis n. sp.
Shell cylindric l;)elow, tapering and conic above, dull red.
Surface finely and evenly striate.
Whorls 6j, convex, the last ascending in front, becoming biangular on its last half, the angles obtuse, one near the suture, the other bounding the flattened basal area, the surface between the angles being flattened.
The constriction is at the termination of the outer lip.
The aperture is very irregular in shape, the lip heavily thickened with a wide but rather thin external rib.
Columella vertical, short, with a very strong horizontal lamella.
The palatal plica is short and wholly covered by the parietal callous, which extends nearly to the suture.
Alt.
2.7, diam.
1.4 mm.
Irazuyama, Tosa.
Types No.
87,646, A. X'.
S. P., from X'o.
1.178 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also a variety from Onomura, Tosa (l,027o).
This species is very distinct by its irregular aperture, strong columellar lamella and peristome, and the biangular last whorl.
It is related to D. gibhera.
D. g. onoensis n. subsp.
The specimens from Onomura, Tosa, are dirty yellowish in color, with the two angles of the last whorl less strong and the constriction a little more receding, so that it falls behind the insertion of the outer lip.
Diplommatina kyushuensis n. sp.
Shell obesely fusiform, the penultimate whorl largest, those above tapering regularly, the last whorl also smaller.
Pale yellowish-brown, sometimes whitish.
Sculpture of very fine, low and delicate vertical striae, obsolete on the front of the last whorl, and often largely lost by wear.
AYhorls 6^, convex, the constriction at the beginning of the last whorl, above the insertion of the outer lip; last whorl rounded below.
Aperture vertical, subcircular, the peristome reflexcd, thickened within, continuous in a delicate callous with raised edge across the parietal wall; somcAvhat angular at the junction of the columellar and basal margins.
Columellar lamella strong at the mouth and opposite the palatal plica.
Palatal plica strong and long, its inner end only under the parietal callous.
Spiral lamella long but rather low.
Alt.
2.7, diam.
1.5 mm.
Kagoshima, Satsuma.
Types No.
81,896, A. N. S. P., from No.
702 of ]\lr.
Hirase's collection.
It has been sent also from Kami-Koshikijima, Satsuma; Watarimura, Kij^oragi and Fukuregi in Higo; Saganoseki, Bungo; and Obi, Huga.
We formerly considered these forms to belong to D. cassa; but further study has shown them to be shorter and less cylindric than cassa, with a more ventrally situated and more distinct constriction.
D. cassa has not yet been found in Kj^ushu, and D. ky^isJmeyisis has not occurred in Hondo or Shikoku.
The form from Kami-Ivoshikijima, Satsuma, is slightly smaller and more slender.
Most species of these islets show more or less modification.
Diplommatina tokunoshimana n. sp.
Shell conic above, cylindric below, dull reddish, rather closely, finely and delicately striate.
Whorls 6^, moderately convex, the last rounded beloAv, strongly ascending in front.
Constriction slight, just in front of the upper insertion of the peristome.
Aperture circular, with a notch at the base of the columella, the peristome thick, thickened outside.
Columella straight.
Columellar tooth strong.
Parietal callous large, approaching the sviture above.
Palatal plica moderately long, situated under the parietal callous.
Length 3.3, diam.
2 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,649, A. N. S. P. , from No.
1 ,217 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Very peculiar by the spout-like base of the aperture, unlike any other species of Japan or the Riukiu Islands.
Diplommatina ventriosa n. sp.
Shell obese-fusiform, the penultimate whorl large and swollen, the spire conic, last whorl smaller; dull reddish-brown; evenly, closely and almost obsoletely striate.
Whorls 6^, very convex, the last well rounded.
Constriction slight, situated in front of the insertion of the outer lip.
Aperture subcircular.
the peristome expanded, thickened; baso-cohmiellar margin rounded.
Cohunellar tooth small.
Parietal callous rather large.
Palatal plica long, partially covered by the callous.
Length 2.8, diam.
1.6 mm.
Length 2.8, diam.
1.4 mm.
Kumejima, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,629, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,288 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Related to D. oshimcv, but the whole shell is ^yider and the back of the last whorl is convex, not flattened and tapering as in that species.
Diplommatina kumejimana n. sp.
The lower half of the shell is C3dindric, the upper half tapering in a long cone; dull red; evenly, delicately striate.
Whorls 7, convex, the last whorl convex below, ascending in front.
The constriction is at the end of the penultimate whorl, close behind the upper insertion of the peristome.
The aperture is circular; peristome thickened and reflexed.
Columella arcuate, with a small columellar tooth.
Parietal callous approaching the suture above.
Palatal plica moderately long, wholly under the callous.
Length 3, diam.
1.4 mm.
Kumejima, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,654, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,288a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Related to D. oshimce, but the sculpture of the spire is finer, and the constriction is behind the peristome, while in D. oshimce it is in front, above the aperture.
Diplommatina lateralis n. sp.
The upper half of the shell is long-conic, the lower half cylindric, but the penultimate whorl is contracted on the right side.
Dull brownish-yellow, evenly, delicately striate.
Whorls 7^ to 7f, convex, the last well rounded, somewhat ascending in front.
Constriction lateral, on the penultimate whorl some distance behind the lip.
Aperture subcircular, the lip thickened, expanded and reflexed.
Columella bearing a quite small tooth.
Parietal callous not extensive.
The palatal plica is concealed by the suture, from its recession following the constriction.
Length 3, diam.
1.6 mm.
Miyakojima, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,636, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,298 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is well distinguished b}^ the lateral constriction.
Diplommatina immersidens n. sp.
Shell convexly tapering above the penultimate whorl, dull red, evenly sculptured with delicate, not close rib-striiie.
Whorls 7|, convex the last rounded below.
Constriction slight, immediately in front of the upper insertion of the outer lip.
Aperture subcircular, the peristome thin and reflexed, a little thickened within.
Columellar tooth hardly visible in a front view, stronger within.
Parietal callous extensive.
Palatal plica long, partly under the callous, partly projecting beyond it.
Length 3.7, diam.
1.7 mm.
Miyakojima, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,655, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,299 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is the largest Sinica of the Riukiu Islands which we have yet obtained.
The columellar tooth is very small in a front view.
Diplommatina vespa n. sp.
Shell oblong, the upper third conic, the rest sulieylindric; diill red or ashy brown.
Sculptured with delicate rib-strite which are fine and close on the cylindric portion of the shell, much more widely spaced upon the conic spire, the first Ih whorls smooth.
Whorls 8 to 8^, very convex.
The penultimate whorl abruptly contracts in front or on the left side and continues narrow to the end, the last whorl being of normal proportions and very convex throughout.
The aperture is subcircular, the lip broadl}^ expanded and reflexed.
The columellar lamella is rather small at the mouth, but larger inside.
It ascends nearly two whorls, to the constriction, where there is also a rather small palatal plica, but no parietal spiral lamella.
Length 3.9, diam.
1.8 mm.
Length 3.7, diam.
1.7 mm.
Length 3.5, diam.
1.7 mm.
Miyakojima, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,634, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,297 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The closing apparatus recedes much more deeply in this than in other Japanese Diplommatinas, but it does not lie cjuite so far back as in a Bornean group of which D. everetti Smith is typical, called Paradiancta, and subordinated to the genus Diancta by von Mollendorff and Kobelt, whose classification of the Diplommatinidce shows some strange groupings for which no reason is apparent.
The section Metadiancta Mlldff., based upon a series of Diplommatinas from the northeastern frontier of India, has also some similarity.
These forms as described by GodwinAustin are characterized bj' the position of the constriction, which is on the side, near the end of the penultimate whorl, behind the peristome, as in D. lateralis and kuyncjimana, described above, but differing from them in the deficient internal armature.
It seems that in various places forms of Diplommatina have inde625 pendently arisen having a tendency toward recession of the closing apparatus.
HEIilCINID^.
Helicina verecunda degener n. subsp.
Similar to H. verecunda Gld., Except that it is decidedly smaller and somewhat more elevated.
Alt.
3.2, diam.
4.3 mm.
Okinoerabushima, Osumi.
Types No.
87.686, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,255 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Yoronjima.
Osumi (1,255a).
HELIOID^.
Eulota (.Egista) friedeliana var.
humerosa n. n. This name is to replace that of E. friedeliana goniosoma P. and H., preoccupied.
Eulota (JEgista) omma n. sp.
The shell has the general shape of E. ocidus (Pfr.).
It is yellowish olivaceous-brown, densely obliquely striate above, more glossy and smoother below, the first two whorls nearly smooth.
Whorls 7, but •slightly convex, enlarging slowly and regularly; the last whorl slightly deflexed in front, obtusely angular at the periphery, the base very convex.
The deep and ample umbilicus is nearly one-third the diameter of the shell; its last half-whorl enlarges more rapidly.
The aperture is rather small, hardly larger than the umbilicus, oblique, rounded, the preceding whorl excising about one-fourth of the circle.
Peristome narrowly refiexed throughout, the columellar margin very steeply ascending, hardly dilated.
Alt.
10.5, diam.
17 mm.
(Taramajima, Xo.
87,574).
Alt.
11.5, diam.
19 mm.
(Taramajima, fossil.
No.
87,575).
Alt.
10, diam.
18 mm.
(Riukiu, No.
83,917).
Taramajima, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,574, A. N. S. P., from No.
998a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also found fossil in sand at the shore.
No.
^7,575 (Hirase's No.
9986).
This species was at first thought to be the Formosan jEgista suhchinensis 'Nevill' Mlldff.,^ but further stud}' of the description and the finding of a Formosan specimen in the collection of the Academy have shown that material differences exist l^etween the Formosan and Riukiuan forms.
In subchinensis the columellar margin slopes to the insertion instead of rising almost vertically as in E. omma — much more steeply in fact than in E. ocidus, which is the most closely related species.
3 Jahrb.
d. D. Malak.
Ges., XI, p. 355, PI.
7, fig.
8.
In each of the three lots examined a small form occurs with the larger shells.
Three of these smaller specimens measure: Alt.
7.5, cliam.
14.4 mm.
; whorls 6.
Alt.
9, diam.
15.5 mm.
; whorls 6| (fossil).
Alt.
8, diam.
14.5 mm.
; whorls 6.
The color also in the small form is concentrated, being of decidedly darker shade than in the larger shells.
The names E. omma and E. oculus allude to the appearance of the basal aspect of the shell — a dark pupil-like umbilicus surrounded by a brownish band, like the iris of the eye.
Eulota (Euhadra) okinoerabuensis n. sp.
Shell very narrowly umbilicate, moderatel}^ depressed with conoidal spire.
The specimens are fossil.
Avhite with a narrow reddish band above the periphery.
The surface in the best preserved specimens is glossy, sculptured with weak Avrinkles along growth-lines, and very fine, faint, close spiral strisp.
Whorls about 5f, slowly increasing, convex, the last rounded below and at the periphery, very slightly deflexed in front.
The aperture is slightly oblique, lunate, the lip thin, narrowly expanded, slightly refiexed, dilated at the axis, half covering the small umbilicus.
Alt.
21, diam.
27.5 mm.
Alt.
19.5, diam.
26 mm.
Okinoerabu-shima, Osumi.
in sand on the seashore.
Types No.
87,542, A. N. S. P., from Xo.
1.252 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a small, elevated member of the group of E. mercatoria, as yet only found fossil.
The ver}' small umbilicus and elevated spire give it something the appearance of the large form of E. submandarina of Yakushima.
Eulota callizona montivaga n. subsp.
This race resembles E. c. minor Gudc in general appearance, but it is more conic, less globose.
The aperture consequently is lower and wider.
The color is (1) either yellow, with a light reddish-brown peripheral belt, a darker streak at the back of the lip, and some tinting with the same color around the lunbilicus, or (2) greenish-yellow, with three blackish-brown bands, the first one very narrow, bordering the suture, the second wide, at the periphery, and the third is a circular area covering the greater part of the base.
The lip is purplish in all specimens seen.
Alt.
23, diam.
28.5 mm.
Alt.
19, diam.
24 mm.
Irazuyama, Tosa.
Types No.
85,740, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,100 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Eulota (Acusta) despecta ikiensis n. subsp.
A small, rather thin, globose race, less depressed than E. d. kikaiensis, thinner, and with no roseate streaks, the peristome not pink-lipped, though the columella is pale flesh-tinted.
It is weakly, irregularly wrinkle-striate, showing traces of spiral striation in places; pale yellowish-corneous or greenish, with narrow yellowish-brown streaks, the early whorls delicateh^ flesh-tinted.
Whorls 5 to 5^.
Alt.
15, diam.
15 mm.
Alt.
14, diam.
14 mm.
Yawata, Iki.
Types No.
S4,SS1, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,087 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Eulota (Acusta) despecta prsetenuis n. subsp.
This form is very thin and light, like E. sieholdiana, from which it differs by the decidedly open umbilicus (like that of E. despecta) and by being distinctly decussate throughout, with close spiral strise crossing the oblique, irregular growth-wrinkles.
Whorls 5^.
Color light greenish-yellow or yellowish-green.
Alt.
20.5, diam.
25 mm.
Alt.
21, diam.
23.5 mm.
Kuchinocrabu-shima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,559, A. N. S. P., from No.
394a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is one of those perplexing forms which unite characters of two very distinct species.
It might be treated as a subspecies of E. sieholdiana, of E. despecta, or a distinct species, according to the weight one places upon this or that feature.
Indeed, one of us had provisionally ranked it under sieholdiana as a variety.
Its geographic location is between the areas of the two Japanese Acustas — E. sieholdiana ranging from Kyushu north, and E. despecta inhabiting the Riukiu Islands.
Eulota nioyaka n. sp.
Shell umbilicate, globose-depressed, thin, glossy, pale yellowishcorneous, faintly marked with fine growth-wrinkles.
Spire low conoid ; whorls 5, convex, the last rounded peripherally, convex below, slightly descending in front.
Aperture roundly lunate, oblique, the peristome white, thin, expanded and narrowly reflexed.
Alt.
6, diam.
8.6, width of umbilicus 1.5 mm.
Alt.
6, diam.
8 mm, Alt.
5.8, diam.
7.6 mm.
628 [Sept., Toba, Shima.
Types No.
87,656, A. N. S. P.. from No.
5a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a larger species than E. commoda A.
Ad., with less conic spire and better developed peristome.
Trishoplita nitens n. sp.
Shell umbilicate, depressed, with very low conoid spire, obtusely angular periphery and convex base; thin, glossy, rather bright greenish-yellow, the earlier Avhorls denuded and bluish-white.
Surface weakly marked with wrinkles along growth-lines, and showing some very faint spiral striae on the base.
Whorls 5, slowly increasing, the last wide, slightly defiexed in front.
Aperture oblique, oval-lunate, the peristome thin, narrowly expanded.
Alt.
6.5, diam.
11.5, width of umbilicus 2 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,598.
A. N. S. P., from No.
1,231 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A very bright, glossy and depressed species, of a genus not before reported from any island south of Kyushu.
CMoritis obscurus n. sp.
Shell umliilicate, somewhat depressed, the spire low-conoidal; thin, and dull, dark brown.
Surface lusterless, slightly striate and indistinctly punctate in places, the points bearing no hairs and rather irregularly spaced.
Whorls nearly 5, the last about double the width of the preceding, very slightly descending at the aperture, rounded at the periphery.
Aperture broadly lunatooblique, the peristome thin, l^rown, narrowly expanded y / throughout, more broadly dilated at the umbilical insertion.
Alt.
9, greater diam.
13, lesser diam.
11.3 mm.
; umbilicus 1.8 mm.
wide.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Type No.
1,227 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A small, dull species, known by a single specimen, but very unlike any other Riukiuan or Japanese species yet known.
The convex spire and expanded Hp, as well as the very obscure punctulation, are its more prominent characteristics.
(^ Surface X 2.5 ; one square millimeter indicated.
The surface under a strong magnification is seen to be very densely, microscopically, irregularly granulate (this sculpture too small to be shown in the figure), and set with low, rounded or oblong grains arranged more or less obviously in oblique lines, in most places less regular than where the figure was taken, on the upper part of the last whorl, a short distance behind the aperture.
The whitish apical whorl seems to be slightly rugose, but not punctate.
Chloritis tosanus osumiensis n. subsp.
This form agrees in shape and color with C. tosanus, but it differs in being smaller, with the hairs a little more widely spaced.
The spire is somewhat convex, with the apex turned down; whorls 4; lip thin and sharp.
Alt.
9, diam.
14.5 mm.
Koneshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,339, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,248 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Koneshima is a place on the western coast of Osumi, on Kago-shima Bay, about opposite the southern extremity of Satsuma.
Ganesella tokunoshimana n. sp.
Shell narrowly umbilicate, globose-conoidal, thin, the outlines of the spire convex, apex very obtuse.
Yellow, with (1) four black-brown bands, a narrow^ one below the suture, a wide one at and above the periphery, a narrower band midway between peripher}^ and umbilicus, and a fourth band inside the umbilicus, or (2) very pale reddish-brown fading to yellowish near the suture and on the base, with a narrow light band at the periphery.
Surface glossy, the first 2 whorls smooth ; then faint growth-lines and spiral striae appear; these become progressively stronger, the last whorl being covered with close incised spirals.
Whorls 5^, convex, the last but slightly or not deflexed in front, angular or subangular at the periphery in front, becoming rounded on the last half or third, convex beneath.
The aperture is oblique, widely lunate, colored within like the outside.
The lip is thin, narrowly reflexed, white, at least at the edge, dark.
at the ends of the bands, the columellar margin dilated.
Alt.
21, diam.
26 mm.
Alt.
22, diam.
26.2 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Type No.
87,595, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,213 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This beautiful species stands close to G. adelmce of Oshima and G. sororcula of Kikaiga-shima, but differs from both in the obtuse spire, the early w^horls Ijeing depressed.
It is less closely related to G. largillierti of Okinawa, that species having the umbiHcus far smaller, no noticeable spiral striation, and a conic spire.
Ganesella myomphala okinoshimana n. subsp.
Shell imperforate, smaller than G. myomphala, with a much wider (1.5 to 2 mm.)
peripheral dark band.
Whorls 6^ to 6^.
Alt.
23.5, diam.
31 mm.
Alt.
18.5, diam.
28 mm.
Okinoshima, Tosa.
Types No.
80,822 and 87,644, A. N. S. P., from No.
583 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Like G. m. rninor Gude, of Awaji, this is a small insular form, but doubtless independently evolved.
Ganesella selasia textilis n. subsp.
Similar to G. selasia in the somewhat triangular aperture and rather large umbilicus, but differing in the following respects: The spire is lower, more convexly conoidal; the surface is very minutely, obsoletely and irregularly granulose in places, and there are irregular spiral lines on the base, especially near the umbilicus; just above the periphery there is a very faint brown band ; and, finally, the lip is white and thicker than in selasia.
Whorls about 5+, the last slightl}^ deflexed in front and noticeably contracted behind the peristome.
Alt.
12.5, diam.
17 mm.
Alt.
12.7, diam.
16.5 mm.
Arakura, Tosa.
Types No.
84,778, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,035 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Ganesella selasia zonata n. subsp.
The shell is much more depressed than G. selasia or G. s. textilis, openly umbilicate, with low, convexly conoid spire and depressed last whorl, which is almost angular in front.
Surface glossy, very minutely and densely but subobsoletely granulose.
Whorls about 5^, the last wide, slightly deflexed in front, and usually somewhat contracted behind the peristome.
The aperture is sul^triangular, the lip white and somewhat thickened.
The shell is light brown or corneous-brown, with a narrow brown band immediately above the periphery, and ascending the spire just above the suture.
Alt.
14, diam.
19.6 mm.
Alt.
13, diam.
18 mm.
Amasaki, Tosa.
Types No.
85,728.
A. N. S. P., from No.
1,107 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The low spire gives this subspecies an appearance very different from G. selasia.
It is much more closely related to G. s. textilis; and it has affinity to G. wiegmanniana, also a Shikoku species; but both zonata and textilis differ from iviegmanniana in minute sculpture and in the somewhat triangular shape of the mouth — characters allying them to selasia of Ivii.
It is quite impossible at present to fix definitely the status of many of these forms, which often have affinities with several very dissimilar species.
In the series of selasia, textilis, zonata and wiegynanniana the umbilicus is much larger than in G. japonica, G. ferruginea and the forms grouping around them.
STREPTAXID^.
Ennea iwakawa miyakojimana n. subsp.
This race resembles E. i. oshimana, but the parietal lamella is longer and more slender and approaches nearer to the upper palatal tubercle.
The striation is finer and closer.
Whorls S. Length 4, diam.
1.7 mm.
Miyakojima, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,637, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,300 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
VERTIGINID^.
Vertigo hirasei glans n. subsp.
Shell shorter than V. hirasei, with the suture less impressed.
Teeth practically typical.
Okinoerabushima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,689, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,261 of Mr, Hirase's collection.
Vertigo hirasei okinoerabuensis n. subsp.
Shell larger than V. hirasei, with 4^ whorls.
There is an upper palatal plica developed in addition to the teeth present in V. hirasei.
Color pale brownish-corneous, translucent.
Length 1.7 mm.
Okinoerabushima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,690, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,261a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Pupa insulivaga n. sp.
Shell very small, cylindrical, obtuse at the ends, ashy-brownish, thin and smooth.
Whorls 6|-, convex, separated by an impressed suture.
Aperture truncate-ovate, with an obtuse, wide, deeply seated columellar prominence, and a short lower palatal fold in the throat.
The peristome is thin, just perceptibly expanded at the edge; right margin straightened in the middle, arcuate above.
Length 1,7, diam, .8 mm.
Yoronjima, Osumi, Types No, 87,624, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,264 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This minute, cylindrical species is very unlike any hitherto known from the region, but closely resembles P. minutissima Hartm.
of central Europe.
The latter, however, is a slightly larger species with strongly striate surface, while insulivaga is smooth.
The palatal plica also differentiates the snail of Yoronjima from its European relative.
ZONITIDiE.
Trochomorpha cultrata n. pp.
Shell openly umbilicate, much depressed, the spire low-conic, base convex; light reddish-brown, rather thin.
Surface slightly shining^ very minutely striate, the lower surface most minutely decussate wdth spiral striae.
Whorls 6f .
the first two convex, the rest convex below the suture, concave above the following suture.
Last whorl very acutely carinate, concave above and below the keel, distinctly angular around the conic umbilicus.
Aperture small, oblique, rhombic, with thin, unexpanded peristome.
Alt.
7, diam.
20 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,502, A. N. S. P., from No.. 631a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is much more depressed than T. gouldiana, with much more widely open umbilicus.
T. horiomphala Pfr.
is a still more depressed species, with a distinct keel around the umbilicus.
Trochomorpha cultrata esuritor n. var.
Similar to T. cultrata, but decidedly smaller, and somewhat less depressed.
Alt.
6, diam.
16.5 mm.. Avhorls 6^.
Okino-Akimejima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,518, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,246 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Sitala insignis n. sp.
Shell imperforate, trochiform, thin and fragile, pale yellowish.
Surface minutely striate spirally, and with rather coarse, low wrinkles of growth.
Whorls nearly 3, the first 1^ very convex, the rest flatly sloping, the last whorl acutely carinate, base convex.
Aperture large, very oblique, angular at the position of the keel, the peristome thin and simple.
Alt.
1, diam.
1.7 mm.
Irazuyama, Tosa.
Types No.
87,530, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,179 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a remarkable species, not lik{^ any other Japanese or Indian, Sitala known to us.
Though very small, it seems to be mature, and could not be the young of any known species of the region.
Sitala latissima conica n. subsp.
Similar to S. latissima, but paler and more elevated.
Yoronjima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,573, A. N. S. P., from No.
9536 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Kaliella kikaigasMmse n.
.'ip.
Shell imperforate, thin, pale yellowish, somewhat translucent, glossy; trochiform, the outlines of the spire nearly straight, the periphery rounded, and the base convex.
Whorls nearly 5, convex, parted by a deeply impressed suture.
Aperture broadly crescentic, the columella subvertical, "^dth reflexed edge.
Alt.
3, diam.
3.5 mm.
Kikaiga-shima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,578, A, N. S. P., from No.
1,063 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is quite unlike any reported hitherto from the Riukiu Islands.
It is much larger than K. bimaris, the most nearly related of the Riukiu species, the color is paler and the aperture a more ample crescent.
It is the first Kaliella to be found on Ivikaiga-shima.
Kaliella humiliconus n. sp.
Shell perforate, amber-colored, somewiiat dull above, glossy beneath; conic above the spire with nearly straight, slightly convex lateral outlines and obtuse apex, the periphery carinate, base convex.
Whorls 5^, convex, separated by an impressed sutm-e. Aperture truncatecrescentic, the columella vertical, its edge dilated and reflexed.
Alt.
2.6, diam.
3.6 mm.
Gokashomura, Ise.
Types No.
87,928, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,169 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is closely related to K. sororcula, but is smaller and has a vertical, not sloping columella.
It is not so elevated as K. higashiyamana.
Kaliella okiuoshimana n. sp.
Shell imperforate, trochoidal, elevated, amber colored, subtranslucent, glossy.
The outlines of the spire are very slightly convex^ nearly straight.
Apex obtuse ; the periphery has a delicately projecting acute keel, and the base is convex.
Whorls 6^, slightly convex.
Suture narrowly margined above.
The aperture is squarish-oblong, a little curved.
Columella short, subvertical, with dilated edge.
Alt.
4, diam.
4,7 mm.
Okinoshima, Tosa.
Types No.
87,929, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,182 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species stands near K. sororcula, but it has a more glossy surface and the columella is vertical.
It is a larger and more elevated shell than K. humiliconus.
Kaliella bimaris n. sp.
Shell small, subperforate, brownish-yellow, rather dull above, glossy beneath; trochiform, the outlines of the spire slightly convex, the 41 periphery rounded, base convex, deepl}' indented in the middle.
Whorls 5^, very convex, parted by a deeply impressed suture.
Aperture lunate, the columellar margin broadly dilated and reflexed.
Alt.
2.1, diam.
2.-3 mm.
Naha, Okinawa Island, Riukiu.
Types No.
87,580, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,160 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is intermediate in shape between K. pagoduloides and K. modesta.
Kaliella gudei persubtilis n. subsp.
Similar to /v.
gudei of southern Yesso, but perceptibly lower and wider.
Alt.
5, diam.
7 mm.
Toshima, Izu.
Types No.
85,766, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,091a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Kozujima, Izu, No.
1,091.
The islands of Izu have a fauna of great interest, though it is not rich in species.
Some forms, like Zaptyx in the Clausiliidse and the varieties of Eulota submandarina , show close affinity to the Riukiu fauna, and can scarcely have reached these islands in any other way than by drift along the Black Current.
Others, like the present species, are related to Yesso forms, and probably indicate a former extension southward upon the main island of species now northern in distribution.
Kaliella pallida Pils.
This species was described from Hachijo-jima, Izu, in error.
It comes in reality from Mizuma-mura, Izumi.
The types are 83,378, A. N. S. P., from No.
952 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Microcystina vaga n. sp.
Shell almost imperforate, depressed trochiform, amber-colored, subtransparent, smooth and glossy.
Spire low-conic with convex outlines.
Whorls 6, convex, slowly increasing, the last subangular at the periphery, convex beneath.
Aperture lunate, the columella thickened with a white callous within, dilated and reflexed above.
Alt.
3.1, diam.
4.3 mm.
Muya, Awa, Shikoku.
Types No.
84,439, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,006 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also from Iwaya, Awaji (No.
1,006a), Midzuma, Idzumi (606c), Gojo, Yamato (606), and Hakusan, Kaga (973).
There are more whorls than in M. tanegashimce .
M. obtusongida is a more depressed species.
Microcystina lampra n. sp.
Shell perforate, depressecl-trochiform, pale amber colored, subtransparent, smooth and glossy.
Spire low-conoid, with slightly convex outlines; apex obtuse.
Whorls 5^, convex, slowly widening, the last rounded at the periphery, convex beneath.
Aperture crescentic; columella arcuate, calloused within, the margin dilated and narrowly re flexed above.
Alt.
2.9, diam.
4 mm.
Yakushima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,558, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,282 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also No.
1,282a from Kuchinoerabushima, Osumi.
This species closely imitates M. vaga, but it is readily distinguishable by the rounded, not angular, last whorl.
The whorls arc more closely coiled than in M. tanegashimcB, and larger than M. yakuensis.
Some specimens from Matsubara-mura, Echizen (Mr. Hirase's No.
6066), where M. vaga would be expected, seem to be M. lampra.
This group of species is somewhat difficult.
M. tanegashimce is a larger species than M. yakuensis, more depressed than vaga or lampra, with fewer whorls, the last one wider.
M. yakuensis is probably identical with M. nuda, and both stand close to M. hilgendorfii Reinh.
; but that is described as whitish — " albida" — while the others are yellow or amber colored.
M. circumdata differs from all of the above species in being spirally striate.
MaorocMamys dulcis koshikijimana n. subsp.
This form has the shape and microscopic spiral striation of M. dulcis Pils., with the same number of whorls, but the spire is more elevated, and viewed from above it is wider.
Alt.
7, greater diam.
12, lesser 10.5 mm.
; width of spire 7 mm.
Shimo-Koshikijima, Satsuma.
Types No.
87,521, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,236 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
In a specimen of M. dulcis of the same diameter the spire is a millimeter narrower.
MaorocMamys subelimatus n. sp.
Shell perforate, depressed, pale yellow, translucent, smooth and glossy.
Spire very low-conic.
Whorls 4^, slowly increasing, the last very wide, double the width of the preceding, rounded at the periphery and base, indented around the perforation.
Aperture slightly oblique, lunate, the lip thin and simple, a trifle dilated at the columellar insertion.
Alt.
2.5, diam.
4 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,553, A. N. S, P., from No.
1,286 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species differs from M. semisericatus by the more glossy upper surface.
It has a half whorl more, the last one embracing more of the preceding whorl, causing the aperture to be more narrowly lunar.
The last whorl is much wider, viewed from above, than in the species of Microcystina of similar size, Macrochlamys gudei inclytus n. subsp.
Shell similar to M. gudei, but larger.
Alt.
9, diam.
13.5 mm.
Tokunoshima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,509, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,208 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Zonitoides apertus n. sp.
The shell is depressed, widely, openly umbilicate, the spire but slightly convex.
Pale greenish corneous-brown when fresh, " dead " shells light brown.
Surface glossy, closety, deeply and a little irregularly striate throughout except the first whorl which is nearly smooth.
There are no spiral striae.
Whorls 4, slowly increasing at first, the last whorl much wider, double the width of the penultimate, rounded at the periphery.
Aperture oblique, oval-lunate, decidedly wider than high, the peristome simple as usual.
Alt.
2.1, diam.
4.7 mm, Okinoerabushima, Osumi.
Types No.
87,522, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,258 of Mr, Hirase's collection.
Very distinct by its discoidal form, wide last whorl and strongly striate surface.
Hirasea insignis n. sp.
Shell imperforate, depressed, with low-conic spire and convex base, impressed in the center.
Brown.
Very finely and regularly striate radially above, smooth below.
Whorls 5, convex, very slowly widening.
Aperture crescentic, narrow, the lip strengthened by a strong white rib within, abruptly stopping short of the upper insertion.
A long, erect callous lamina stands at the edge of the parietal callous.
Alt.
2, diam.
3.5 mm.
Mukojima, Ogasawara.
Types No.
87,514, A. N. S. P., from.
No.
1,194 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Like Brazieria in its parietal barrier, and the only known Ogasawaran species with this structure.
ENDODONTID^.
Punctum atomus n. pp.
Shell minute, moderately umbilicate, pale yellow, glossy, sculptured with sharp, close strise and very fine spirals.
Whorls 3, convex, separated by a deeply impressed suture, the last whorl well rounded at the periphery and beneath.
Aperture rounded-lunate, the lip simple and acute.
Alt.
.5, diam.
1 mm.
Nishigo, Uzen.
Types No.
87,933, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,266 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is the size of P. japonicum or somewhat smaller, but differs from that by its fine sculpture, without wide-spaced riblets.
Punctum rota n. sp.
Shell moderately umbilicate, pale greenish-corneous or olive-brown, shining, sculptured with delicate, wide-spaced oblique riblets, the intervals finely striate.
Spire low-conic.
Whorls 3^, convex, the last rounded peripherally and beneath.
Aperture quite oblique, rounded, nearly one-third of the circle excised by the penultimate whorl.
Peristome thin, the columellar margin dilated at the insertioiv, Alt.
1, diam.
1.7 mm.
Nishigo, Uzen.
Types No.
87,930, A. N. S. P., horn No.
1,191 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also occurs at Kyoto, Yamashiro, No.
1,221 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form is more elevated and more rounded peripherally than P. jyretiosum Gude.
The umbilicus is larger than in P. morseanum.
Very similar specimens, but of perceptibly darker brown color, were collected on Okinoerabushima, Osumi.
Although so distant from the type locality, I can find no other distinctive characters.
ACHATINID^3.
Opeas brevispira n. sp.
Shell openly perforate, oblong, very short for the genus, corneous, translucent, glossy, finely wrinkle-striate, the striae arcuate.
Spire short, regularly tapering to the obtuse apex.
Wliorls 5 j, moderately convex.
Aperture long, rhombic-ovate, the outer lip arched forward in the middle, columellar lip reflexed, not adnate except at the insertion, columella straight.
Length 6, diam, 3, length of aperture 2.6 mm.
Kashima, Harima (Mr. Y. Hirase).
Types No.
79,097, Coll.
A. N. S. P. Similar to 0. kyotoensis in the obtuse apex, open perforation and striation, but differing in being very much shorter and broader.
The short contour is quite unusual in this genus.
Opeas kyotoensis n. sp.
Shell almost imperforate, turreted, translucent, waxen whitish, glossy, arcuately, inconspicuously wrinkle-striate, smoother below.
General slope of the sides straight, apex very obtuse.
Whorls 7h, quite convex, separated by deeply impressed sutures.
Aperture slightly oblique, somewhat effuse below; outer lip sinuous, thin; columella straight, vertical, the edge reflexed and appresscd except for a minute umbilical chink.
Length 10, diam.
3.3, longest axis of aperture 3.3 mm.
Length 7, diam.
2.8, longest axis of aperture 2.7 mm.
Kyoto, Yamashiro.
Types No.
78,757, A. N. S. P. The chief character of this species is its blunt, rounded apex.
It is very near 0. prestoni 8ykes of Ceylon, but that species is a little less striate and perceptibly more glabrous, Opeas obesispira n. sp.
Shell minutely perforate, turreted, translucent, whitish corneous, the columella visible through the shell; glossy with faint, arcuate wrinkles.
Lateral outlines decidedly convex above.
Whorls about 8^, moderately convex, separated by impressed sutures, which appear to have a translucent margin below.
Aperture subvertical; outer lip thin, arched forward in the middle, somewhat retracted below.
Columella subvertical, with a distinct spiral twist below; its edge reflexed above.
Length 12, diam.
3.3, longest axis of aperture 3.3 mm.
Riukiu.
Types No.
79,093, A. N. S. P., from No.
4566 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is smoother and less distinctly perforate than 0. gracile, and the spire is thicker above, giving quite a different aspect to the shell.
The columellar reflection is narrower than in 0. prestoni Sykes.
All of the shells seen contain rather large white eggs.
