Academy of Natural Sciences VOLUME LVIII 1906 philadelphia : The Academy of Natural Sciences LOGAN SQUARE 1906-1907 ,A The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, February 23, 1907.
I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 190C have been mailed as follows : — Pages 132 mailed May 3 64.
65-112.
113-160.
161-260.
261-292.
293-356 357-420.
421-428.
429-460.
461-508.
509-556.
557-588.
May 18, 1906.
May 19, 1906.
May 29.
1906.
June 20, 1906.
July 24, 1906.
August 21, 1906.
Septembei • 25, 1906.
October 19, 1906.
Novembe " 6, 1906 January 7, 1907.
January 16, 1907 February 19, 1907 March 8, 1907.
EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., Recording Secretary.
PUBLICATION committee: Henry Skinner, M.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, Edavard J. Nolan, M.D.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., cx-officio.
EDITOR: Edavard J. Nolan, M.D.
7n r CONTENTS.
For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index.
PAGE Baxks, Nathan.
New Oribatidte from the United States (Plates XIV-XVIII), 490 Blatchley, W. S. On Some Reptilian Freaks from Indiana, 419 Brown, Stewardson.
Botanizing in the Canadian Rockies, .
429 Chamberlain, Ralph V. A New Lithobius from Colorado, .
3 Fowler, Henry W. Some Cold-blooded Vertebrates of the Florida Keys (Plates III and IV), 77 Further Knowledge of Some Heterognathous Fishes, Part I, 293 Note on the Dusky Salamander (Plate XIII), ... 356 Description of Two New Species of Centropomus, .
423 Further Knowledge of Some Heterognathous Fishes, Part II, 431 Some New and Little-known Percoid Fishes, 510 McIndoo, N. E. On Some Fishes of Western Cuba, .... 484 Moore, J. Percy.
Additional New Species of Polychaeta from the North Pacific (Plates X, XI, XII), 217 Descriptions of Two New Polychseta from Mexico, 352 Descriptions of New Species of Polychseta from the Southeastern Coast of Massachusetts (Plate XIX), .
.501 Oberholser, Harry C. A Monograph of the Genus Collocaha, .
177 Pilsbry, Henry A.
Description of a New Australian Glycymeris, 213 Pilsbry, Henry A., and C. M. Cooke, Jr. On Hawaiian Species of Sphyradium, 215 I'lLSBRY, Henry A., and J. H. Ferriss.
Mollusca of the Southwestern States, II (Plates V-IX), 123 Mollusca of the Ozarkian Faima (Plates XX, XXI.
XXII), .
529 Rehn, James A. G. Studies in South and Central American Acridinse (Orthoptera), with the Descriptions of a New Genus and Six New Species, 10 Records and Descriptions of Non-Saltatorial Orthoptera from British Guiana, 262 Descriptions of Five'New Species of Orthoptera from Tonkin, 279 IV CONTEXTS.
PAGE Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Hebard.
A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Montana, Yellowstone Park, Utah and Colorado, 358 Smith, Burnett, Ph.D. Phylogeny of the Races of Volutilithes petrosus (Plate II), 52 Stevens, N. M., and A. M. Boring.
Planaria Morgani n. sp.
(Plate I), 7 Vaux, George, Jr.,.
and William S., Jr. Observations on Glaciers in Alberta and British Columbia (Plates XXIII et seq.
), 568 Watts, Harvey M. Weather Predictions, 430 OF THE OF 1906.
January 2.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Thirty-four persons present.
The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had been appointed to serve during the ensuing year: Finance.
— John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. Morris, Horatio C. Wood, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr., Treasurer.
Publications.
— Henry Skinner, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc, Witmer Stone, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Library.
— Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Thomas A. Robinson, Thomas Biddle, Jr., M.D., Benjamin Sharp, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr. Instruction.
— Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. PilsJjry, D.Sc, Charles Morris, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Dr. C. Newlin Peirce.
Committee of Council on By-Ia\ws, — Arthur Erwin Brown, Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader and Charles B. Penrose, M.D.
Th e Chair announced the deaths of the following : — Charles T. Yerkes, a member, December 29, 1905.
George Bowdler Biickton, a correspondent, September 25, 1905.
J.
B. Ellis, a correspondent, December 30, 1905.
Mr .
Stewardson Brown made a communication on a botanical trip to the Bermudas taken during the last summer.
(No abstract.)
January 16.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Thirty-four persons present.
Dr. Sharp having taken the Chair, Mr. A. E. Brown made a communication on theories of evolution since Darwin.
(No abstract.)
The following w^ere elected members: H. S. Jennings, Robert G. LeConte, M.D., and Henry Leffman, M.D.
The following was ordered to be printed : A NEW LITHOBIUS FROM COLOEADO.
BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN.
Lithobius harrietse sp.
nov.
Diagnosis.
— Angles of the 9th, 11th, and 13th dorsal plates produced ; articles of antennae 36; ocelli 11-12 in 3 series; prosternal teeth 2-2, 3-3; spines of first legs beneath 1,3,1, of penult 1,3,3,1 with 2 claws, of anal 1,3,3,0 with 2 claws; coxal pores in 1 series, round, 4,6,6,5; length 11.5 mm.
Description.
— Dorsum brown with a l^lack or blackish median longitudinal stripe; head paler especially anteriorly; antennae brown or yellowish-brown, paler distally; legs yellow; venter yellow, darkest over middle portion.
Head wider than long (85 : 78), widely truncate or slightly incurved behind, lateral margins moderately convex behind posterior ehd of eye patch, then converging to bases of antennae, anterior margin of head between antennae substraight; two furrows extending transversely between eyes concave anteriorly, the posterior one usually giving off two branches which converge caudally and meet in a point on the median line; each posterior lateral portion of head marked with one or several sharply impressed curved lines.
Ocelli arranged in an oblong patch in three series ; 11 or 12 in number, 1 -1-4,4,2(3); single ocellus large, vertically elliptical; first eye of upper row larger than others excepting the single one.
Antennae short, consisting of 36 articles of short length, the ultimate conical, in length about equalling the two preceding together; articles in specimens examined nearly glabrous, possibly due to rubbing.
Prosternal teeth 2-2, 3-3; when 3-3 the external tooth on each side more widely separated from the median than the latter from the internal.
Angles of the 9th, 11th, and 13th dorsal plates produced; 1st and 3d scuta considerably sinuate posteriorly, 5th slightly so 7th straight, 8th, 10th and 12th sinuate.
Spines of first legs ^j^;o' ^^ *^^® penult ^^^{, the claw with 1 spine; of the anal qi's 30' ^^^^ ^^^^^ v^'Wh 1 spine.
Coxal pores in 1 series, round, 4,6,6,5.
Gonopods of female with claw tripartite, the lobes rather short; basal spines 2-2, or 3-3, stout, acutely pointed above middle, the inner smallest.
Length of body 11.5 mm.
; width 10th plate 1.6 mm.
; length of antennae 3.3 mm.
; of anal legs 4 mm.
Locality.
— Near Glenwood Springs, Col.
The types consist of four adults.
February 6.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Fourteen persons present.
The Piibhcation Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication: "Mollusca of the Southwestern States, III," by Henry A. Pilsbry (January 24).
"A New Lithobius from Canada," by Ralph V. Chamberlain (January 26).
''Some Cold-blooded Vertebrates of the Florida Keys," by Henry W. Fowler (January 29), "Studies in South and Central American Acrididae (Orthoptera), with the descriptions of a new genus and six new species," by James A. G. Rehn (February 2).
"Further Knowledge of some Heterognathus Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler (February 6).
Mr. Witmer Stone made a communication on certain ornithologists of the past, giving incidents in the lives and commenting on the works of Catesby, William Bartram, Barton, Wilson, Charles Lucien Bonaparte, Audubon, John K. Townsend, William Gamble, John Cassin and Samuel W. Woodhouse.
(No abstract.)
The Council reported that the President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., had been appointed to represent the Academy at the approaching celebration of the 200th anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin by the American Philosophical Society.
February 20.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair.
One hundred and six persons present.
The Publication Committee reported that a paper entitled 'Tlanaria morgani n.
sp.," by N. M. Stevens and A. M. Boring, had been presented for publication (February 14).
The deaths of Charles Smith, a member, March, 1905, and of John C. Wilson, a member, February 19, 1906, were announced.
Mrs. Charles Schaeffer made a communication on the caves and flowers of the Cougar Valley in the Selkirks.
(No abstract.)
The following were elected members: D. H. Tennent, R. E. B. McKenny, and Edward S. Miles.
The following were ordered to be printed : PLANARIA MOEGANI n. sp BY N. M. STEVENS AND A. M. BORING.
Size.
— Length 10-12 mm., width in the region of the pharynx 1.6 mm., at the level of the eyes 1 mm.
Form.
— Head wedge-shaped, no auricular appendages, posterior end obtuse, thickness slight compared with Planaria maculata or P. simplicissima (Plate I, figs.
1 and 2).
Color.
— ^White and translucent; digestive tract often colored green, yellow, brown, or red by food recently ingested.
Eyes.
— ^Two, crescent-shaped, situated far back and near together (PI.
I, figs.
1-4).
Nervous Systejn.
— Cephalic ganglia large and distinct, connected by a broad commissure, lateral nerve cords as in P. maculata, two prominent nerves extending forward from below the eyes (Plate I, fig.
4).
Pharynx.
— Single, much elongated, centrally located in forms with functional sexual organs, posterior to the center in forms which are reproducing asexually (Plate I, figs.
1 and 2).
Digestive tract as in the typical triclads with little anastomosis of branches (fig.
3).
Reproductive Organs.
— Ovaries two, situated ventrall}^ between the anterior axial division of the gut and its first lateral branches, sometimes lobed, and often extending nearly to the dorsal epidermis (Plate I, fig.
4).
Oviducts following a spiral course dorsal and slightly lateral to the nerve cords, back to the region of the atrial organs, where they converge and unite into a short common oviduct which enters the atrium dorsal to the opening of the uterus stalk, instead of entering a vagina as in P. maculata (Cm-tis, '02).
Spermatozoa are often found massed at the anterior end of the oviducts.
Yolk glands lie between all of the main branches of the gut dorsal to the testes.
Testes many, irregular in form and variable in size, scattered between the branches of the gut, for the most part ventral and median to the nerve cords, and extending from the region of the ovaries to the posterior end of the pharynx (fewer and larger than in P. maculata).
Distinct seminal vesicles extending posteriorly from the last pair of testes (y.s., Plate I, figs.
5 and 6).
Vasa deferentia broad, short and only slightly coiled, entering the anterior enlargement of the lumen of the penis nearly at right angles.
Penis short and broad, nearly filling the atrium (similar to that of P. maculata).
Uterus large, dorsal, extending forward nearly to the pharynx chamber; stalk of the uterus passing to the left side, dorsal to the vasa deferentia and oviducts, and entering the atrium laterally and ventral to the entrance of the common oviduct (Plate I, figs.
5 and 6).
Reproduction by Fission.
— Like Planaria maculata, this species reproduces both sexually and asexually.
Indications that fission had occurred were observed in May, 1901-1905.
In May, 1905, while all the individuals in one branch of a certain stream were sexually mature and depositing egg-capsules, those in another branch of the same stream were found in all stages of fission and regeneration (Plate I, figs.
7-10).
During the last week of May and first week of June a few individuals showed regenerating atrial organs.
The same difference, as to sexual matiu-ity and fission, was observed in collections from the two branches of the stream in October, and at the date of writing (February 7th) there are no sexually mature worms among the thirty to forty specimens which were reproducing by fission when brought into the laboratory in October.
About half of the number have divided in the aquarium.
Fission occurs at a point nearer the pharynx than in P. maculata (fig.
7), Regeneration.
— Both anterior and posterior regeneration at all levels proceeds much as in P. simplicissima, but both regeneration and form regulation are more rapid.
Habitat.
— Planaria morgani is found on the under side of stones and dead leaves in a small stream, one branch of which flows through the Bryn Mawr College campus.
The authors have not found it elsewhere.
Explanation of Plate I.
Fig.
1.
Freehand sketch of living planarian, magnified five times.
Atrial organs present (a).
Limits of the digestive tract indicated by dotted outline.
Fig.
2.
Same of an individual without atrial organs.
Fig.
3.
Camera drawing of whole mount, showing pharynx and branches of the digestive tract.
Magnification 10 diameters.
Fig.
4.
Reconstruction from camera drawings of frontal sections, sho^ving cerebral gangUa, lateral nerve cords, cephalic nerves, eyes, and ovaries.
Mag.
35 d. Fig.
5.
Reconstruction of reproductive system from a series of frontal sections, dorsal aspect.
p. =pharynx.
/.
=testis.
od.
=oviduct.
v.s.
=vesicula seminalis.
■u.=uterus.
p.Z.
= penis lumen, pe.
=penis.
a.
=atrium.
c.o.
= common oviduct.
?•.= reproductive pore.
m.s.
=uterus stalk.
Mag.
10 d. Fig.
6.
Similar reconstruction from sagittal sections.
Left-hand aspect.
Ox-iduct and vas deferens of right side omitted.
Lettering as above.
Mag.
10 d. Fig.
7.
Freehand sketch of the anterior piece of a living specimen soon after fission.
Mag.
5 d. Fig.
8.
Similar drawing from a larger anterior piece several davs after fission, showing considerable regeneration.
Fig.
9.
Posterior piece soon after fission, showing the two separate branches of the digestive tract.
Mag.
10 d. Fig.
10.
Similar posterior piece after several days' regeneration (probably about a week).
Branches of digestive tract united and new pharj-nx and eyes formed.
Mag.
10 d. STUDIES IN SOUTH AND CENTEAL AMERICAN ACRIDINiE (ORTHOPTERA), WITH THE DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW GENUS AND SIX NEW SPECIES.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The subfamily treated in the following pages is usually termed the Truxalinse, but the resurrection of the Old World Linnsean genus Acrida necessitates the use of the name Acridinae.
Of this subfamily by far the majority of the South and Central American genera have been studied in this connection and numerous opinions and conclusions regarding their relationship are given in the following pages, while several genera, or subgenera, have been considered untenable and one new one proposed.
The consideration of several wrongly identified or overlooked species caused a shifting of generic names, which necessitated in one case a new generic name.
Twenty-two genera have been considered in more or less detail, and sixty-three species, of which six are new, have been examined.
The material examined numbered six hundred and twenty specimens, of which two hundred and sixty-seven were from the Academy Collection, three hundred and twenty-eight from the Hebard Collection, and twenty-five from various sources.
I wish to express my thanks to Mr. Hebard for the privilege of examining the material from his collection.
HYALOPTERYGES.
HYALOPTERYX Charpentier.
1845.
Hyalopieryx Charpentier, Orthopt.
Descr.
et Depict., tab.
46.
Type.
— H. rufipennis Charpentier.
From its closest allies Hyalopteryx can be separated as follows: from Radinotatum by the presence of well developed tegmina and wings, the caudal expansion of the pronotum and the much shorter rostrum and less produced head; from Achurum by the more robust form, the caudal expansion of the pronotum (more or less pronounced according to the sex), the much broader tegmina and wings as well as the shorter, blunter rostrum and less produced head ; from Eutryxalis in the longer, slender limbs, the somewhat broader tegmina, the shorter rostrum, and the more fenestrate wings of the male ; from Truxalis in the longer, more produced rostrum, the more angulate caudal margin of the pronotum, the slender caudal limbs and the broader, less subequal tegmina; from Orphula in the characters which separate it from Truxalis.
The genus Hyalopteryx appears to connect two extremes of the series, one extreme represented by Radinotatum, a quite peculiar type, and Achurum, and the other by Truxalis and Orphula, Eutryxalis apparently sharing the intermediate position, but really being closer to Truxalis.
The sequence of genera which appears most natural in the Hyalopteryges isRadinotatum McNeill.
Achurum Saussure.
Hyalopteryx Charpentier.
Eutryxalis Bruner.
Truxalis Fabricius.
Orphula Stal.
Hyalopteryx rufipennis Charpentier.
184.5.
Hyalopteryx rufipennis Charpentier, Ortliopt.
Descr.
et Depict., tab.
46.
[Brazil.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
December 13, 16, 19, 1904.
March 7, 1902.
February 13 and 15, March 6, 7 and 9, 1905.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
Eleven d'd', eleven 9 9.
These specimens appear from Charpentier's description and figure to be the same form as he called rufipennis.
The description particularly mentions the distinct lines on the metazona, and states that the lateral carinse are similar to the median, which would hardly have been said if the metazona was irregularly lineato-rugose and the lateral carinse faint and strongly expanded on the metazona, as in the new species here described as H. asinus.
Of the caudal femora he says: "Die Hinterschenkel .... oben eine fein erhabene Linie, die vorn am Knie in eine ganz kleine Spitze ausgeht, woselbst seitwiirts zwey weit grossere hervorragen, wie Stacheln."
From this and the comparative proportions of the structures mentioned above and the subgenital plate as figured in his plate it is very evident that the Sapucay specimens are either Charpentier's rufipennis or a very closely related new species.
Burr's H. exaggerata,^ the only other previously described species, possesses elongated genicular structures as in my new asinus.
The series examined is quite uniform, a little variation in size being * Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
London, 1902, pt.
II, p. 183.
[Chiquitos, Bolivia.]
noticed and a little in the intensity of fine blackish maculations on the dorsum, a few specimens being almost free from the latter while others have a '^salt and pepper" effect.
Hyalopteryx asinus n. sp.
Types: c^ and 9 ; Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo (c?
), Jundiahy, Sao Paulo ( 9 ), Brazil.
September 14, 1900 (c?
), February 24, 1899 ( 9 ).
(Hempel [d^l Schrottky [ ?
].)
[Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.]
Allied to H. rufipennis Charpentier, but differing in the larger size and slenderer limbs in both sexes, and in the male in the bullate metazona, the broader, more acute tegmina, the elongate internal genicular processes of the caudal femora and the extremely elongate subgenital plate.
The Bolivian H. exaggerata Burr is a close ally as Fig.
1.
— Hyalopteryx asinus n. sp.
Lateral view of male type.
(X 2.)
shown by the genicular structures mentioned in the brief original description, but it can be separated by the yellow anal field of the wings and by inference by other characters, as the author says : " In venation and structure, this form resembles H. rufipennis. '
' Size rather large ; form elongate, very distinctly compressed, greatly so in the male ; surface rugulose and covered with scattered whitish hairs, both the character of the surface and the hairs being much more pronounced in the male than the female.
Head about equal to the pronotum in length in the male, distinctly shorter in the female, the occiput much more ascendent in the male than in the female ; f astigium projecting beyond the eyes a distance equal to the width at the cephalic margin of the eyes, lateral margins parallel in the male, slightly converging in the female, the apex with a rounded angle, lateral sections more distinctly depressed and the short medial carina more apparent in the female than in the male; face very strongly retreating in the male, slightly less in the female; frontal costa narrow, moderately 1906.
13 excavated dorsad and mesad, very strongly compressed dorsad, slightly broader and parallel to the ocellus, gently but regularly diverging to the clypeus, the margins in the male all more or less sinuate; antennae of the male distinctly but not greatly exceeding the head and pronotum in length, strongly ensiform, depressed, greatest width not contained more than seven times in length, the proximal section slender and the apex acute; eyes elongate subovoid, much more acute cephalad in the female than in the male, the infraocular sulcus slightly greater than the length of the eye in both sexes.
Pronotum of the male distinctly, but not very greatly, expanded and sub-bullate on the metazona, of the female with the metazona but very slightly broader than the prozona, the lateral carinae slightly and regularly expanding caudad ; cephalic margin subtruncate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate in the male, obtuse in the female but with the angle more acute and the side margins subemarginate ; median carina distinct in both sexes, but apparently more prominent in the female than in the male; lateral carinae of the male parallel on the cephalic portion of the prozona and following the "shoulder" on the metazona; prozona equal to the length of the metazona in the male, Hyaloptcri/x a'^inufi n. sp.
Fig.
2.
— Dorsal view of head and pronotum of male type.
Fig.
3.
— Lateral view of genicular region of caudal femur of male type.
Fig.
4.
— Dorsal view of head and pronotum of female type.
(X 2.)
very slightly shorter in the female; metazona in the male with the dorsal rugae broken, irregular, and not strictly longitudinal, in the female more regular than in the male but not strongly marked ; lateral lobes with the dorsal length very considerably greater than the depth, cephalic and caudal margins converging except for a short parallel ventral section, the ventral margin sinuate-oblique.
Tegmina of the male broad, the greatest width about a fourth the distance from the apex and contained slightly less than four times in the length ; costal margin moderately arcuate, apex acute, the sutural margin straight with the apical fourth obtusely deflected to the apex, which considerably exceeds the tip of the subgenital plate.
Tegmina of the female lanceolate, exceeding the tips of the caudal femora by about the length of the head, greatest width about a third the distance from the apex, which is acute ; greatest width contained about six and a half times in the length; costal margin arcuate distad, the sutural margin straight for about four-fifths the length, the apical fifth obliquely deflected to the apex.
Wing of the male very nearly two-thirds the length of the tegmen; costal margin strongly arcuate, the apex rectangulate ; hyaline ulnar area with the width contained about two and a half times in the width of the entire wing, complete transverse veins eight in number.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes very distinctly longitudinal in the male, subquadrate in the female; interspace between the metasternal lobes narrow, slightly longitudinal in the male, transverse quadrate in the female.
Abdomen more distinctly compressed in the male than in the female; male subgenital plate enormously produced, compressed, the apical section needle-like, the length equal to that of the pronotum.
Cephalic and median limbs slender, femora very slightly arcuate in the male.
Caudal femora very slender and elongate, the greatest width in the male being about nine times in the length, about eight and a half in the female, exceeding the tip of the subgenital plate proximal portion hardly inflated, but almost regularly tapering to the apex, carinse distinct, pattern of the pagina distinct, acute-angulate and but shallowly impressed, genicular lobes in both sexes produced, the dorsal angles of the genicular region produced into broad, somewhat flattened, acute-angulate processes, in the male that of the internal face over twice the length of the external and as long as the femoral depth, in the female the processes of the two sides subequal; caudal tibise slender, very slightly shorter than the femur, lateral margins with seventeen to eighteen spines in the male, nineteen in the female; tarsi with rather small arolia.
General color dorsad russet sprinkled and washed with mummy brown, ventral color pale cinnamon.
Head in the male with the carinse spotted with mummy brown and two rather faint postocular lines of the same color present; eyes in the male mars brown, in the female Vandyke brown.
Pronotum with a pair of irregular dark bars on the lateral carinse.
Tegmina in the male liberally sprinkled with small mummy brown and bistre maculations.
Wings with the costal margin of the hyaline iihiar area and the cross veins of the same canary yellow, the costal section of the wing wood brown clouded with vandyke brown; anal field proximad rather pale scarlet, distal section smoky hyaline, between the two a very distinct and moderately broad bar of hazel.
Caudal limbs of the general color of the ventral surface.
Measurements.
& 9 Length of body, 31.2 mm.
37.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 5.5 " 7.5 " Length of tegmen, 27 " 34.5 " Greatest width of tegmen, 7 " 5.1 " Length of caudal femur, 18.3 " 22 " A paratypic series of three males has been examined in addition to the type.
One is from Jundiah}^ (Schrottky), and the others from Sao Paulo (September 14, 1900; Hempel).
These specimens do not differ appreciably except very slightly in color and in the slightly greater size of the Jundiahy male.
EUTRYXALIS Bruiier.
1900.
Eutryxalis Bruner, Ace.
Gen. and Spec.
Locusts Argent., pp.
22, 24.
Included Metaleptea minor Bruner (not of Giglio-Tos) and Eutryxalis strigata Bruner, of which the former ( = Hyalopteryx gracilis GiglioTos) is the type.
This genus is closely related to Hyalopteryx, but differs in the characters given under that genus.
Eutryxalis gracilis (Giglio-Tos).
1S97.
H[;/alopterij.r] gracilis Giglio-Tos, BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
ed Anat.
Comp.
Torino, XII, No.
302, p. 22.
[San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina ; Caiza, Bolivian Chaco.]
1900.
Eu[tryxalis] minor Bruner, Ace.
Genera and Spec.
Locusts Argent, p. 24.
(Not Metaleptea minor Giglio-Tos.)
[Argentina ; common throughout the provinces north of the Rio Colorado.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 10-15, March 2-10, 1905.
Seven c^c?, ten ?
?
.
[Foster, Hebard Coll.]
These specimens are quite uniform in size, and in color have the browns and greens distributed in the bicolored individuals as seen in Truxalis.
No uniform brown specimen has been examined.
The possession of two males and three females of this species from Carcarafia, Argentina, received from Prof. Bruner and labelled Eutryxalis minor Giglio-Tos, enabled the author to clear up a rather unfortunate and complicated question of misidentification.
A male and female specimen of Metaleptea minor Giglio-Tos, received through Dr. Borelli (the collector of the types) from the Turin Museum, show that the species really is an Orphula and not closely related to Truxalis {Metaleptea Bruner), while the specimens determined by Bruner really are Hyalopteryx gracilis, answering the description very well.
The species is quite distinct from Hyalopteryx and well worthy of generic separation.
From the known records this species appears to be distributed over a large area, extending from Caiza in the Bolivian Chaco to the Rio Colorado, and east to the Paraguay river region.
TETIXALIS Fabricius.
Truxalis brevicornis (Johansson).
Bartica, British Guiana.
May 25, 1901. d" 9 .
(Crew, A. N. S. P.) Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 7 and 14, 1900.
4 d" d", 2 9 9 .
(Hempel, A.N.
S. P.) Jundiahy, Brazil.
9.
(Schrottky, A.N.S.P.)
Corumba, Brazil (lowland).
March.
5&&.
(H. H. Smith, U. S. N. M.) Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 10-17, March 2-21, 1905.
10 d'd', 17 9 9 .
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
This series presents examples of all the color phases noticed in this widely distributed species.
Records for this species include Buenos Ayres and San Lorenzo, Argentina, Villa Rica and Asuncion, Paraguay, and Caiza, Bolivia, as well as numerous localities north of Brazil.
Bruner says it is " found throughout the Republic [Argentine] north of the Rio Colorado, especially along the eastern border.
"ORPHULA St&l.
1873.
Orphula Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 105.
Included pagana (Stal), plebeia (Stal), intricata Stal and punctata (De Geer), of which pagana has been selected as the type by Giglio-Tos.^ Orphula pagana (St&l).
1860.
Gomphocerus (Hyalopteryx) paganus Stal, Kongliga Svenska Fregatt.
Eugenics Resa, Zool., I, Ins., p. 3.39.
[Rio Janeiro, Brazil.]
Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 1 and 5, 1900.
2 9 9.
(Hempel, A. N. S. P.) Chapada, Brazil.
April.
2 c?, 1 9 .
(H. H. Smith, U. S. N. M.) Corumba, Brazil (lowland and highland).
March.
2 9 9.
(H. H. Smith, U. S. N. M.) Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 6-13, ^ Ace.
Gener.
and Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 23, 1900.
3 Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 9.
March 6-19, 1905.
Id" (^,10 9 9.
(Foster, Hebarcl Coll.)
Asuncion, Paraguay.
2 d^c^, 2 9 9 .
(A. N. S. P.) The specimens from Corumba are slightly larger than individuals of the same sex from the other localities.
Considerable variation also exists in the form of the fastigium, the 9 from Chapada having it rather broad, but otherwise inseparable, while one individual from Sapucay has the same portion more acute than usual, in a considerable measure approaching 0. minor.
The tips of the tegmina are sharper and more acute in individuals from Chapada, Corumba and Sao Paulo than in Asuncion specimens, but the series from Sapucay includes practically both extremes.
Some specimens have the dorsal dark lines absent and the coloration but little varied.
The species has previously been recorded from Santos, Brazil, Formosa and Resistencia nel Chaco, Argentina.
Orphula minor (Giglio-Tos).-' 1897.
M[etaleptea] minor Giglio-Tos, BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, XII, No.
302, p. 23.
[San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina; Caiza and Aguairenda, Bolivian Chaco.]
Caiza, Bolivia.
(Borelli, A. N. S. P.) One 6".
Chaco.
(Borelli, A. N. S. P.) One 9 .
These authentic specimens, received from the Turin Museum, show that the species is a member of the genus Orphula and closely related to 0. pagana.
From the latter species it differs in the slenderer head, with less prominent and somewhat longer eyes, and the more acute fastigium.
MERMIRI^.
SYRBULA Stai.
The genus Syrhula presents two extreme types, one represented by admirahilis, and the other by montezuma and eslavoe.
These extremes might with justice be separated, as has provisionally been done by the author (i.e., subgenus Hems), but for the presence of a type like S. acuticornis, which is clearly an annectant form.
Syrbula montezuma (Saussure).
The specimens from Cuernavaca, ^Mexico, previously recorded by the author as *S. valida and eslavoe, and from La Joya, San Luis Potosi, Mexico, are referable to this species, which is closely related to S. eslavoe and differs chiefly in the less constricted lateral carinae of the pronotum.
* Bolivar's Orphula jucunda {Adas Soc.
Espan.
Hist Nat., XXV, p. 15) from the Rio Atalapo is probably a member of this genus, but apparently quite distinct from either 0. pagana, with which it was originally compared, or 0. minor.
2 Syrbula eslavse Rehn.
1900.
Syrbula eslavoe Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, XXYII, p. 90.
[Eslava, D. F., Mexico.]
1900.
Syrbula (Herus) valida Rehn, Ibid, p. 91.
[Eslava, D. F., Mexico.]
These two names were applied to the sexes of the same species.
AMBLYTROPIDIJE.
AMBLYTROPIDIA St&l.
Amblytropidia ferruginosa Stdl.
1873.
A[mblyiropklia] ferruginosa Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 107.
[Brazil.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
December 19 and 20, 1901.
April 30, 1902.
February 13-27, March 2-11, 1905.
9 S'd', 12 9 9.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
These specimens are assigned here with some little doubt, as they are larger than Stal's measvirement of the female type (length 25 millimeters).
The females all show more or less blacki.sh-brown maculations on the tegmina, and the males have the caudal femora strongly rose-colored with the genicular regions blackish.
In the latter respect they appear to approach the very brief characterization of australis, but the antennae are longer and the general coloration rather different.
The latter character is of very uncertain value in this genus, as the extremes of one species are qviite different, considering A. occidentalis a representative form.
Amblytropidia australis Bruner.
1904.
[Amblytropidia] australis Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, pp.
62, 64.
[Argentina.]
Chapada, Brazil.
April and June.
2 d'd", 1 9.
(H. H. Smith, U. S. N. M.) As the original description of this species is extremely brief, little can be gleaned from it to aid in identifying material.
In the material examined the tegmen are darker near the costal margin than elsewhere, and a median dark line is present on the head and pronotum of the female and the pronotum of one male.
The genicular regions are obscured with dark color in both sexes, but more strongly in the male than in the female.
The range of the species is here extended north of its previous limit, Caiza, Bolivian Chaco.
Amblytropidia vittata Giglio-Tos.
1894.
A[mblytropidia] vittata Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 13.
[Luque, Paraguay.]
Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 1 and 7, 1900.
2 ?
9 .
(Hempel, A. N. S. P.) The coloration of these two specimens is generally similar, but one has a longitudinal pale green bar on the proximal portion of each tegmen.
This specimen also has a median line on the head and pronotum quite dark, while the other individual is devoid of any striking markings.
Amblytropidia trinitatis Bruner.
1904.
Amhhjiropidia trinitatis Bruner, Biol.
Cent-Amer., Orth., II, pp.
63, 65.
[Demerara, British Guiana; Trinidad.]
Trinidad, West Indies.
1 o^.
(H. D. Chipman, through Bruner, A. N. S. P.) Venezuela.
1 c?.
A. N. S. P. The Venezuela male is inseparable from the topotypic specimen.
The range of the species is considerably extended by the ^^enezuela record.
Amblytropidia auriventris McNeill.
1897.
[Amblytropidia] auriventris McNeill, Proc.
Davenport Acad.
Xat.
Sci., VI, p. 227.
[Orizaba, Mexico.]
Atoyac, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
December.
1 cJ*.
(Bruner, A. N. S. P.) Amblytropidia mysteca (Saussure).
The material previously recorded by the author as A. mysteca from Cuernavaca, Texolo, Uruapan and Patzcuaro, Mexico, has been reexamined, and in all cases represents mysteca as understood by Bruner.
The genus Sinipta Stal is a rather aberrant member of this group, chiefly differing in the depressed, subensiform antennoe, which, however, does not appear to be sufficient to remove it from association with Amblytropidia, some species of which have the antennae somewhat depressed.
ORPHULELL^.
The genera generally accredited to this group are with two exceptions, Calephorus and Comacris, American.
The genera examined by the author in this connection are given below, with their apparent positions as far as can be expressed in a linear arrangement.
Calephorus Fieber { = Oxycoryphus Fisher).
Parorphula Bruner.
Sisantum Bruner.
OrphuUna Giglio-Tos.
Orphulella Giglio-Tos.
Clinocephalus Morse.
Dichromorpha Morse.
Chloealtis Harris.
Cocytotettix n. n. { = Fenestra Bruner, not of Giglio-Tos).
Toxopterus Bolivar.
Of these ten genera a total of* thirty-six species has been examined.
Several genera like Chloealtis and Toxopterus are rather aberrant and really occupy isolated positions, that of Chloealtis, however, being somewhat modified by Cocytotettix, which is in a way a transition type.
The European Calephorus is also somewhat removed from the nearest ally Parorphula, but its position appears to be in this group and its affinity is clearly with the above-mentioned genus.
The relationship of Sisantum and Orphulina is close, as an examination of the type species of each shows, but, for the present at least, I have considered them distinct.
The only American genus not examined is (Eonomus Scudder, from California.
CALEPHORUS Fieber.
1853.
Calephorus Fieber, Lotos, III, p. 97.
May, 1853.
Included C. elegans Fieber and Gryllus dubius Rambur, both equalling Acrydium compressicornis LatreiUe.
1854.
Oxycoryphus Fischer, Orthoptera Europisea, p. 311.
Type, Acrydium compressicornis Latreille.
This genus is mentioned merely to show its relationship to Parorphula from which it appears to be an offshoot.
Aside from the presence of a distinct intercalary vein no character of great weight is apparent to distinguish Calephorus from Parorphula.
Three females of C. compressicornis from France and Egypt have been examined.
PARORPHULA Bruner.
1900.
Parorphula Bruner, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., pp.
22, 25.
Included P. graminea, pallidinota and strigata Bruner, of which the first, graminea, can be selected as the type.
This genus appears to form a transition type between Calephorus and the Sisantum-Orphulina group.
Parorphula graminea Bruner.
1900.
P[arorphida] graminea Bruner, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 26.
[Provinces of Buenos Aires, Santa Fe and Cordoba, Argentina.]
Carcarana, Santa Fe, Argentina.
3 c?
c^ , 3 ?
9 .
(Through Lawrence Bruner, A. N. S.
Phila., and U. S. N. M.) SISANTUM Bruner.
1904.
Sisantum Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, pp.
30, 69.
Type.
— S. notochloris Bruner.
Sisantum notochloris Bruner.
1904.
Sisantum notochloris Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 69.
[Medellin, Vera Cruz, Mexico.]
Medellin, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
1 (5^.
(T. Heyde through L. Bruner, A. N. S. P.) The genus Sisantum is closely related to Orphulina, and the two form a group intermediate between the Calephorus-Parorphula type and Orphulella.
ORPHULINA Giglio-Tos.
1S94.
Orphulina Giglio-Tos, BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
.\nat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, pp.
8, 9.
Type.
— 0. pidchella Giglio-Tos.
This genus can be recognized without difficulty by the characters given by Giglio-Tos.
The structure of the frontal costa is c[uite distinctive, at least in several species.
Orphulina pulchella Giglio-Tos.
1894.
0[rphnlina] pulchella Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 10.
[San Pedro, Paraguay.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
March 7-11, 1905.
4 9 9.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
Two of these specimens have the dorsum green or tinted with greenish, the other two being dull ochre in the same region.
Orphulina balloui (Rehn).
1905.
Orphulella balloui Rehn, Ent.
News.
XVI, p. 178, pi.
VIII, figs.
2 and 3.
[Bay Estate, Barbados, West Indies.]
This species is really a member of the genus Orphulina and rather closely related to 0. pulchella.
It can be separated by the blunter fastigium, which has both the dorsal and lateral aspects showing a more rounded angle, the slightly more elongate ovoid eye, the slightly less longitudinal and more quadrate interspace between the mesosternal lobes, and the different coloration.
The National Museum Collection contains a single female, labelled "West Indies," collected by the U. S. Fish Commission.
Orphulina veteratoria n. sp.
Types: c?
and ?
; Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 5 ( ? )
and 19, 1900.
(Hempel; No.
216 part.)
A. N. S. P. Allied to both pulchella and balloui, but separated from the former by the more robust form, the less compressed eyes, the slightly less pronounced expansion of the lateral carinse on the metazona and the slightly more acute fastigium.
The male has the interspaces between the sternal lobes much as in Orphulella.
From 0. balloui it can be separated by the smaller size, more acute fastigium, the more prominent eyes and the heavier caudal femora.
This species is not closely related to 0. acuta.
Size small ; form moderately robust.
Head slightly shorter than the 22 [Feb., pronotum, slightly but distinctly ascending; fastigium about as long as the width at the cephalic angle of the eye ( cJ' ) or very considerably Orphulina reteraforia n. sp.
Lateral view of female tj-pe.
(X 3.)
shorter ( 9 ), acute-angulate in the male, rectangulate in the female, an intermarginal depressed lunate area in both sexes; lateral foveolse distinct in the female, much less distinct in the male, cephalic, elongatelanceolate; face moderately retreating with the apex rather truncate; frontal costa rather narrow, subparallel to below the ocellus, very slightly expanded between the antennae, the margins moderately divergent ventrad, moderately sulcate from the antennae ventrad; eyes subovate in the male, ovoid in the female, quite prominent in the male, very slightty longer than the infraocular space in both sexes; antennae slightly longer than ( cJ* ) or subequal to ( ? )
the head and pronotum together, moderately depressed, slightly expanded proximad and very faintly subensiform.
Pronotum with the caudal width contained about once and a half in the -length; cephalic margin arcuato-truncate, caudal margin rounded obtuse-angulate ; median carina distinct, lateral carinas slightly narrowed at the second sulcus and moderately divergent caudad in the male, subparallel to the second sulcus and very slightly divergent caudad in the female; first transverse sulcus not intersecting any of the carina, second intersecting the lateral, and the third intersecting the lateral and median carinae, metazona slightly longer than the prozona in the male, subequal in the female; lateral lobes very distinctly longer than the depth, ventral margin with a considerable oblique cephalic emargination.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly transverse in the male, and slightly longitudinal in the Fig.
6.— Orphulina veteratoria n. sp.
Dorsal view of liead and pronotum of female type.
(X 3.)
female ; metasternal lobes separated by a very narrow space in both sexes.
Tegmina slightly exceeding the tips of the caudal femora, the caudal margin with a distinct but rather small proximal dilation, apex rotundato-truncate; intercalary vein distinct in the female, irregular in the male.
Abdomen moderately compressed ; subgenital plate of male blunt.
Caudal femora moderately robust, considerabh' dilated in the proximal two-thirds, pagina rather deeply sculptvu-ed; caudal tibiae somewhat shorter than the femora, lateral margins bearing ten or eleven spines, arolia small, subtrigonal.
General color of the male bistre, the anal area of the tegmina and the dorsum of the pronotum burnt umber, the lateral angles of the pronotum ventrad and slightly mesad on the pronotum marked with black; eyes walnut brown; ventral siu-face buffy becoming buff-yellow on the abdomen; caudal femora ochre yellow becoming tawny, ochraceous and raw umber distad, caudal tibise dull heliotrope purple, the spines yellowish narrowly tipped with black.
General color of female bistre becoming wood brown ventrad; dorsum of the head, pronotum and anal area of the tegmina pale apple green, the lateral carinse of the pronotum marked with blackish as in the male but more narrowly; eyes raw umber blotched with bistre.
Measure77ients.
Length of body, 14 mm.
19 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3 " 4 " Length of legmen, 12 " 15 " Length of caudal femur, 10 " 11.2 " The types are the only specimens of this species which have been examined.
It is possible that the sexes here described do not represent the same species, and that my association of them is erroneous.
Several characters of the c?
do not appear to be in accord with one's ideas as to what the opposite sex of the ?
type should be, but as neither belongs to an old species of the genus I have thought best to associate them, pending the acquisition of further material.
In case the sexes should prove to represent distinct species I would restrict the name veteratoria to the 9 .
Orphulina acuta n. sp.
Types: d^ and ?
; Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(Hempel; No.
216 part.)
A. N. S. P. Allied to 0. pulchella, but a heavier species with the fastigiiun more acute, the eyes longer, and more compressed when viewed dorsad, the 24 [Feb., tegmina and caudal femora shorter, the latter more robust, and the whole insect lacking the prominent lateral stripe of 0. pulchella.
Fig.
7.
— Orphnlina acuta n. sp.
Lateral view of female type.
(X 3.)
Size small; form somewhat robust, moderately compressed.
Head distinctly shorter than the pronotum, considerably elevated in both sexes, the occiput more rounded in the male than in the female, the latter having it almost straight; fastigium acuteangulate in both sexes, but slightly more so in the male than in the female, the width at the cephalic angle of the eye equal to ( c? )
or slightly greater ( 9 ) than the length, margins distinct, a moderately depressed intermarginal area present on the dorsum, no median carina; lateral foveolae distinct, deep, cephalic, blunt elongate-lanceolate in shape; the front dorsad forming a right angle with the fastigium, ventrad of the antennae considerably retreating; frontal costa narrow in the male regularly but slightly expanding from the fastigium to the clyj^eus, deeply sulcate, particularly dorsad of the ocellus; frontal costa in the female similar to the male but subparallel from between the antennse to the ocellus, the width being greater and the sulcation shallower than in the male; eyes regularly ovoid in the male, acute ovoid flattened cephalad in the female, in both sexes very distinctly exceeding the infraocular sulcus in the length; antennae slightly longer (c?)
or slightly shorter ( 9 ) than the length of the head and pronotum, slightly depressed and expanded proxim ad , being thus very slightly ensif orm .
Pronotum with the greatest caudal width of the dorsum contained once and a half in the length; median carina very distinct, severed in the middle, lateral carinae Una acuta n. sp.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum ot female type.
(X 3.)
parallel to the second sulcus, considerably expanding between the second and third, very slightly expanding to the caudal margin; cephaHc margin subtruncate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate, more rounded in the male than in the female; first transverse sulcus obsolete; lateral lobes of the pronotum with the dorsal length slightly greater than the depth, ventral margin with a considerable cephalic emargination.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes moderately longitudinal in the male, slightly so in the female; metasternal lobes contiguous caudad in the male, separated by a space about a fourth the width of the mesosternal interspace in the female.
Tegmina considerably exceeding the tips of the caudal femora in length, apex rounded, costal margin with a very narrow and slight proximal lobe; hyaline in the proximal third ; intercalary vein irregular and extending the whole length of the area, becoming lost in irregular reticulations ; ulnar area with a distinct longitudinal dividing vein in both sexes.
Wings ample.
Abdomen considerably compressed; subgenital plate compressed with a blunt apical tubercle.
Caudal femora robust, the pagina deeply and strongly sculptured; caudal tibise distinctly, but not greatly, shorter than the femora, the lateral margins armed with ten or eleven spines ; tarsi with large arolia.
General color shading from tawny-olive to burnt umber.
Head and pronotum with postocular bars of vandyke brown, broad and dark in the male, quite narrow and light in the female.
Dorsum of the head, pronotum and closed tegmina lighter than the lateral aspects, tawny-olive in the female, bay in the male.
Venter wood brown.
Limbs varying shades of the general color; tarsi very pale viridian green, with the base of the first, the whole second, the apex of the third, arolium and tips of the claws black; spines on the tibiae tipped with black.
Measurements.
& 9 Length of body, 14 mm.
1S.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3 " 4 Length of tegmen 12.5 " 16.2 Length of caudal femur, 8.5 " 10.7 A paratypic series of two females have also been examined (September 7 and 14, 1900), and differ in no important characters from the type.
One specimen represents a darker and more sooty type of coloration than the other.
ORPHULELLA GisHo-Tos.
1894.
Orphulella Giglio-Tos, BoUett.
Musei Zoolog.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, pp.
8, 10.
Included 0. gracilis Giglio-Tos, punctata (De Geer), intricata Stal and elegans Giglio-Tos.
Of these punctata is the oldest known and the most widely distributed species, and may be considered the type.
The species of this genus are quite difficult to separate and the recognition of almost all the forms can be considered only tentative.
The extent of individual variation is great, both in structure and color, and reliable characters for the separation of species are iew.
The work of Bruner in the Biologia is by far the best treatment of the genus so far published.
Orphulella negleota Rehn.
1900.
Orphulella neglecta Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc, XXVII, p. 94.
[Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico.]
Orizaba, Mexico.
June.
1 d ; type.
(0.
W. Barrett, A. N. S. P.) 2 cJ^cJ*.
(Sumichrast, A. N. S. P. received through Dr.
Saussure.)
Jalapa, Mexico.
August and September.
2 cTc?.
(Barrett, A. N.
S.P.)
Presidio, Mexico.
June.
Id.
(Barrett, A.N.
S. P.) Coatepec, Mexico.
August.
1 d", 1 9 .
(Barrett, A. N. S. P.) This series shows that the species varies somewhat in size (males from 16 to 21 millimeters in total length), but little in color.
All except one d^ from Jalapa are of the same colors, allowance being made, of course, for fading in the Sumichrast specimens, while the Jalapa exception has the usual green dorsum replaced by a dull olive tint, while the pronotum near the lateral lobes is not as distiactly marked as in the other specimens.
The ?
specimen measures as follows: length of body, 22 mm.
; length of pronotum, 4.1 ; length of tegmen, 17; length of caudal femur, 12.9.
This species seems to be a form limited to the Eastern Cordilleras.
Orphulella aouleata Rehn.
1900.
Orphulella aculeata Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc, XXVII, p. 92.
[Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.]
Cuernavaca, Mexico.
June.
1 c^, 3 9 9 including types.
(0.
W. Barrett, A. N. S. P.) This species appears to be quite distinct, and is not an Orphulina as has been thought possible by Bruner.^ Superficially this form considerably resembles 0. viridescens Scudder, but the structural characters are quite distinctive and show that no close relationship exists.
Orphulella gracilis Giglio-Tos.
1894.
Orphulella gracilis Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No, 184, p. 11.
[Province of San Pedro, Villa Rica and Asuncion, Paraguay.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
December 20, 1901 (one specimen).
2 dd.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
5 Biol.
Cent.
-Amer., Orth., II, p. 74, 1904.
The validity of this species appears to be somewhat doubtful, GiglioTos himself ^ considering it a synonym of the North American 0. maculipennis { = pelidna Burmeister).
In this he is of course in error, but it is extremely close to 0. punctata, which is so variable that gracilis may only be an extreme with the lateral carinae more or less obliterated between the first and third transverse sulci.
The form is rather more elongate, however, than in the average individual of 0. punctata.
Orphulella punctata (De Geer).
San Rafael, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
cJ^, 9.
(Townsend through L. Bruner, A. N. S. P.) San Marcos, Nicaragua.
2 9 9.
(C. F. Baker, A. N. S. P.) Trinidad.
d,9.'
A. N. S. P. Bartica, British Guiana.
May 1-27, 1901.
23 d'd', 14 ?
9 .
(Crew, A. N. S. P.) Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 1-19, 1900.
5^^(^,5 9 9.
(Hempel, A. N. S. P.) Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 3-27, March 6-12, 1905. lOd'cJ', 22 9 9 .
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
This large series of specimens, representing a verj'considerable range, I find cannot be divided into species on any one or number of the innumerable characters of variation exhibited.
The green and brown phases of coloration, varied with maculations and distinct bars or uniform with practically no markings, and variations in the shape and strength of the lateral carinae of the pronotum, in the length of the tegmina and wings, in the form of the fastigium and eyes, some slight, others pronounced, are all present, and on superficial examination would appear to furnish good characters for dividing the series.
Attempts along these lines, however, soon show how hopeless it would be to erect species on even the most striking types, as intermediates are present to connect them with any other extreme.
Two specimens from Gualaquiza and Valle del Lamora, Equador, received from the Turin Museum, labelled "Orphula olivacea" and recorded as such by Giglio-Tos,^ are provisionally referred to this species.
They are clearly not 0. olivacea, as comparison with paratypic material shows, and having been preserved in alcohol are badly shrivelled in consequence.^ Orphulella elegans Giglio-Tos.
1S94.
0[rphidella] elegans Giglio-Tos, BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, IX, No.
184, p. 12.
[Resistencia nel Chaco, Argentina; Province of San Pedro, Villa Rica and Asuncion, Paraguay.]
8 BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, XII, No.
302, p. 24, 1897. '
BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, XIII, No.
311, p. 39 1898.
^ Bolivar's Orphula pafruelis (Adas Sac.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat., XXV, p. 15) from the Rio Atalapo I have not recognized, and can give no idea of its proper position.
Four specimens, two of each sex, from Carcaraiia, Argentina, determined as this species by Bruner, I am unable to separate from my series of 'punctata, which includes material determined as that species by Bruner.
Individuals of the latter from Nicaragua, Costa Rica and British Guiana resemble the Carcaraiia specimens very closely.
Orphulella intricata (Stil).
1873.
T[ruxalis\ intricata Stal, Recensio Orthopteromm, I, p. lOG.
[Buenos Ayres.]
Two specimens, c?
and 9 , one from Cordoba, the other from Carcaraiia, Argentina, determined as this species by Bruner, are available for study.
I am of the opinion that this species will prove to be merely a phase of the very variable 0. punctata.
Orphulella mexicana (Saussure).
1861.
Ox[ycoryphus] mexicanus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, p. 314.
[Mexico.]
Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
August.
2 9 9.
(0.
W. Barrett, A. N. S. P.) Coatepec, Mexico.
August.
1 9 .
(Barrett, A. N. S. P.) Texolo, Mexico.
March 13, 1899.
5 d'c?.
(S. N. Rhoads, A. N. S. P.) The above records, with the Jalapa record given by Bruner in the Biologia,^ constitute the sum of our knowledge of this species; It appears to be restricted in its range, as suggested by Bruner, and the taking of five specimens in one day shows it can hardly be called rare.
The species is apparently confined to the country on the lower eastern slope of the Cofre de Perote.
The compressed form of this insect will readily separate it from allied species.
The compression of the male abdomen with its appendages is quite pronounced.
Orphulella tepaneca (Saussure).
1861.
St[enoboth]r[us] tepanecus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, p. 319.
[Mexico.]
Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
July 14, 1891.
1 d", 1 9.
(W. S. Blatchley, A. X. S. P.) This pair was received from Blatchley labelled ' ' Orphulella zapoteca, ' ' but they are clearly not that species and answer Saussm^e's description of tepanecus very well.
This species would appear to be limited in range to the vicinity of Orizaba, Bruner having also recorded it from there.
Orphulella meridionalis Bruner.
San Marcos, Nicaragua.
1 c?.
(C. F. Baker, A. N. S. P.) Chinandega, Nicaragua.
16".
(C. F. Baker, A. N. S. P.) » Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 80, 1904.
These specimens have been compared with the Costa Rican individuals previously recorded by the author.^" Orphulella zapoteca (Saussure).
1861.
Ox[ycorijphus] zapoteca Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, p. 316.
[Mexico.]
Texolo, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
March 3 and 13, 1899.
8 (^(^.
(S. N. Rhoads, A. N. S. P.) The specimens from Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, previously recorded by the author as 0. tepaneca are referable to this species.
The frontal costa, however, is moderately sulcate in all the Tamaulipas individuals.
Orphulella viridescens Scudder.
1899.
Orphulella viridescens Scudder, Canad.
Entom., XXXI, p. 187.
[Mt.
Alvarez, Mexico.]
The specimens previously recorded by the author from Eslava, D. F., Mexico," are now before me.
This species is quite distinct from any other mainland form, and rather closely related to 0. scudderi.
DICHROMORPHA Morse.
1S96.
Dichromorpha Morse, Psyche, MI, pp.
326, 383.
Type.
— Chloealtis viridis Scudder.
Dicliromorplia mexicana Bruner.
1904.
DicJiromorpha viridis Rehn (not of Scudder), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1904, p. 518.
[Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.]
1904.
Dichromorpha mexicana Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 87.
[Sinaloa and Tepic, Mexico.]
A^ide from the longer tegmina and wings this species differs from viridis in the slightly more robust form and ■^he more acute fastigium in both sexes.
The range of this species now covers three States or Territories on the west coast of Mexico — Sinaloa, Tepic and Jalisco.
Dichromorpha longipennis Bruner.
1904.
Dichromorpha longipennis Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 87.
[Mexico.]
Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.
August 20.
1 d^.
(J. F. McClendon, A. N. S. P.) This specimen is uniform brown and does not exhibit the green dorsum mentioned by Bruner as present in the type d^.
This the first definite record of the species.
1" Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.. 1905, p. 802. "
Trans.
Amer.
Entom.
Soc, XXVII, p. 95, 1900 COCYTOTETTIX'^n.
n. 1900.
Fenestra Bruner (not of Giglio-Tos), Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., pp.
22, 30."
Included F. pulchripennis, intermedia and argentina Bruner, of which the first may be considered the type.
This genus is quite distinct from any other, but is nearer to the North American Chloealtis than any South American type.
The Matto Grosso C. linearis " is rather aberrant in the slender form, narrow tegmina, weaker carina and more hyaline wings.
Cocytotettix pulchripennis (Bruner).
1900.
F[enestra] pulchripennis Bruner, Ace.
Gen, Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 30.
[Argentina; open camp.]
Carcarana, Santa Fe, Argentina.
2 cJ^d^.
(Through L. Bruner, A. N. S. P.) Cocytotettix intermedins (Bruner) 1900.
F[enestra] intermedia Bruner, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 31.
[Carcarana, Argentina.]
Carcarana, Santa Fe, Argentina.
2 (^(j, \ 9.
(Through L. Bruner, A. N. S. P.) The cJ* of this species superficially remind one of the males of the certain species of the genus Syrbula.
TOXOPTERUS Bolivar.
1890.
Toxopterus Bolivar, Anales Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Xat., XIX, p. 313.
Type.
— T. miniatus Bolivar.
This genus is rather aberrant and isolated in position in consequence, but its position is in the Orphulellse, and nearer to Cocytotettix than any other genus.
The structure of the antennae is similar to that of Gomphocerus, but such resemblance is also found in Eritettix, which is a member of the Amblytropidise, and are superficial and not of great taxonomic value.
Toxopterus miniatus Bolivar.
1890.
Toxopterus miniatus Bolivar, Anales Soc.
Espaii.
Hist.
Xat., XIX, p. 314.
[Cumbase, Peru.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
January 18, 1903.
January 28, February 625, March 2-10, 1905.
7 d'd', 13 9 9.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
12 -pj-jg genus Fenestra is invalid from Bruner {Ann.
Mas.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova, XXXIII, p. 120, 1893), as he designates no named species for type or included forms.
Tlie first species named under the generic term Fenestra was F. bohlsii GigUo-Tos (Zooi.
Jahrb., Syst., VIII, p. 807, 1895), which, on a subsequent page (p. 32), I will show to be the species later named Dichroatettix viridifrons Bruner, and for which the generic name Fenestra must be used.
13 Kui^vTo^, shrieking, tettie, grasshopper; in allusion to the loud stridulations .
1* Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 374.
This series exhibits considerable variation in the intensity of the coloration, the dorsal aspect ranging in color from dull blackish brown to mottled ochre and umber and again washed with dull green.
The paler lateral bands, including the ventral portion of the lateral lobes, pleura and caudal femora are distinct in all the specimens examined and in several are decidedly greenish; in these cases the gense are also colored.
Some individuals are distinctly maculate, or might really be called tessellate, ochre and umber being the two colors.
Considerable variation in the sharpness of the angle of the fastigium is also noticeable, and in both sexes.
In some females the angle is almost as acute as in some males.
The species has previously been recorded by Giglio-Tos ^^ from Gualaquiza, Cuchipamba and the valley of Santiago, Ecuador.
GOMPHOCERI.
The South American genera of this group are six in number, three previously known and three recognized as the result of the present study.
Of these genera two will be described in a subsequent paper, but they are mentioned here to show their position in the series.
The genera would stand as follows: Fenestra Giglio-Tos {=Dichroatettix Bruner).
Staurorhectus Giglio-Tos.
Isonyx n. gen. Borellia n. gen. Stereoteitix n. gen. Tristira Bruner.
The first genus is quite distinct, as is the second.
The next three genera, Isonyx, Borellia and Stereoteitix, show some characters in common, but differ in a number of others, such as the position of the lateral foveolae and the relative proportion of the spurs.
The last, Tristira, is a quite distinct type, much isolated from the others and immediately recognizable by its peculiar facies.
FENESTRA Giglio-Tos.
1895.
Fenestra Giglio-Tos, Zoolog.
Jahrbiicher, Syst.
Abth., VIII, p. 807.
Type.— F. bohlsii Giglio-Tos.
1900.
Dichroatettix Bruner, Ace.
Genera Spec.
Locusts Argent., pp.
22, 32.
As I have stated on a previous page (p. 30) these names apply to the same genus and species.
As there stated Fenestra is invalid from Bruner, 1893,^® on account of the lack of a type or included named '^Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, XIII, No.
311, p. 39.
»« Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Geneva, XXXIII, p. 120. species.
The only information we have is a footnote to the extent that ' ' Ce genre est fonde sur une espece de Buenos Aires. '
' The next use of the name is by Gigho-Tos, who placed the species in hand in that genus, in spite of the sanguineous wings, which appendages were stated to be hyaline by Bruner.
Bruner was apparently unacquainted with the paper of Giglio-Tos and erected a new genus Dichroatettix for a species, which is undoubtedly the same as F. hohlsii Giglio-Tos, while Fenestra was applied to three species, which therefore require a new generic name, a want supplied on a jM-evious page of this paper.
^^ This genus is related to the North American genera Napaia and Horesidotes.
It can be distinguished from the former by the less expanded antennae, the strongly constricted lateral carinas of the pronotum, the subequal prozona and metazona, the distinctly angulate caudal margin of the pronotum, the longer tegmina with more definite venation and the very peculiar cerci.
From Horesidotes (which has not been examined) it appears to differ in that the occiput has no distinct median carina, the caudal margin is more angulate and the lateral lobes of the pronotum are deeper than long.
Fenestra bohlsii Giglio-Tos.
1895.
F[enestra] bohlsii Giglio-Tos, Zoolog.
Jahrbucher, Syst.
Abth., VIII, p. 807.
[Paraguay.]
1900.
Dichroatettix viridifrons Bruner, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 33, figs.
9 and 10.
[Cordoba and Carcarana, Argentina.]
Cordoba, Argentina.
1 d. (Through L. Bruner, U. S. N. M.) Sapucay, Paraguay.
January 24, 26, February 13 and March 221, 1905.
5 d'd^, 10 ?
?
.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
This series shows that the green color of the face is not present in some of the females, and in such as it is present the lateral lobes of the pronotum are always, and generally also the dorsum, the pleura and the caudal femora, except the apices, of the same color.
All the males examined have the face green.
In some specimens the dorsum of the pronotum is without the velvety black patches seen in others, in fact about half the specimens are without them.
Size, as exhibited " The name Dichroatettix might with justice be used for this genus if the unidentifiabihty of the Brunnerian genus Fenestra precludes its use by GigUo-Tos.
As an unidentifiable name requires different treatment from a nomen nudum the use of Fenestra once in such a way would by some be considered to preclude its subsequent use, its existence terminating as a name when considered unidentifiable.
A nomen nudum, being considered to express nothing definite, can be properly used by a later author from whom it dates.
An unidentifiable name, on the other hand, represents something imperfectly and improperly presented and should be discarded for all time.
I have presented both views, the proper presentation of the name by a later author and the complete elimination of the name, and leave others to choose for themselves.
In any case Giglio-Tos's species bohlsii would stand.
by this series, is subject to little variation.
Some of the females show considerable variation in the angle of the fastigium.
STAURORHECTUS Giglio-Tos.i^ 1897.
Staurorhectus Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, XII, No.
302, p. 25.
Type.
— S. longicornis Giglio-Tos.
This genus is apparently closer related to Chorthippus (Stenohothrns) than to any other genus of the group, the tegmina of the male being rather similar in some species, but the lateral foveolse are very weak, the lateral carinae of the pronotum are much less distinct and the caudal femora slenderer.
staurorhectus longicornis Giglio-Tos.
1897.
S[taurorhectus] longicornis Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino, XII, No.
302, p. 26.
[San Lorenzo and Tala, Argentina; Caiza, Bolivia.]
Campo Santo, Bolivia.^^ 1 d^.
(BorelU, A. N. S. P.) San Lorenzo, Jujuy, Argentina.
1 $ .
(Borelli, A. N. S. P.) Sapucay, Paraguay.
March 2-27, 1905.
12^^(^,37 9 9.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
The interesting series listed above exhibits a very great range of variation with four distinct color forms in the ?
; the cJ^ is more uniformly colored.
These forms I will designate a, h, c and d, lettering from the most diversified to the most uniform type.
Type a.
A median longitudinal line from fastigium to tip of tegmina buff, flanked by lines of blackish brown on pronotum and tegmina, on the latter occupying all except a narrow proximal costal line of pale yellow.
Lateral carinse distinct, light, slightly constricted.
Light bar on head slightly margined with brownish.
Remainder of lateral aspect, and caudal femora except the dorsal blackish line and the reddish distal section, grass green.
Represented by twelve specimens.
Type 6.
Similar to type a, but green replaced by ochraceous brown.
Represented by eight specimens.
Type c. The dorsal median line in this type is almost lost and nearly concolorous with the lateral bars, so that dorsum from the fastigium caudad is nearly uniform.
Represented by six specimens, ^* It is quite possible this may prove to be the same as Compsacris Bolivar {Anales Sac.
Espaii.
Hist.
Nat., XIX, p. 314, 1890) based on one species — C. pulcher — from "Villa Bella en el Peru," which is apparently ViUa Bella, Bolivia, at the junction of the Beni and Mamore rivers.
If such should prove to be the case Compsacris would replace Staurorhectus.
None of the species examined by the author are closely related to C. pulcher judging from the description.
^'Labelled as above, but Campo Santo, Salta Province, Argentina, is probably intended.
Type d. Tegmina colored much as in type a, but head, pronotum, pleiu-a and Hmbs suffused with rose red, the usual markings being only faintly indicated.
Represented by eleven specimens.
The largest 9 specimen (38 millimeters in length of body) belongs to type c, the smallest (30 millimeters) to type a.
The typical ?
received from the Tiu'in Museum has been immersed in a liquid preservative and it is impossible to tell to which type it belongs.
One d^ individual has a coloration which would be con4dered type c. while the other males are of a type which approximates closer to the 9 type h with, however, some greenish, but not on the caudal femora.
The curve of the fastigium of the female varies from arcuate to distinctly angulate, and is more excavated in some than in others.
Staurorhectus glauoipes n. sp.
Type: 9 ; Sapucay, Paraguay.
March 8, 1905.
(Foster; No.
32.)
Hebard Collection.
Allied to S. longicornis Giglio-Tos, but considerably smaller and slenderer with the fastigium more acute, the frontal costa more sulcate, the lateral foveolse of the vertex practically suppressed, the ulnar Fig.
9.
— Staurorhedus glaucipes n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
(X 2.)
area of the tegmina without a distinct longitudinal dividing vein, no distinct continuous intercalary vein present, and possessing a characteristic coloration which does not appear to vary appreciably in a series of ten females.
Size rather small ; form moderately slender.
Head distinctly shorter than the pronotum, the occiput not elevated and gently arched longitudinally; fastigium shorter than the width at the cephalic angle of the eyes, shghtly acute, the apex rounded, margins with a narrow semicircular depression, no median carina present; lateral foveolse not distinct, ventrad ; face considerably retreating, the apex acute when viewed laterad; frontal costa moderately wide, margins subparallel, reaching to the clypeus, sulcate from dorsad of the antennae ventrad; eyes elongate-ovoid, very slightly longer than the infraocular sulcus; antennse considerably exceeding the head and pronotimi together in 1906.
35 length, nearly two-thirds the length of the tegmen, moderately depressed proximad and very slightly dilated.
Pronotiim moderately rounded but with a perceptible dorsal flattening; cephalic margin slightly arcuate, caudal margin broadly obtuse-angulate with the angle rounded, no lateral carinse present, but a moderate shoulder developed on the metazona; greatest caudal width contained about one and twothirds in the length, metazona regularly and closely, but not deeply, punctate; three distinct transverse sulci present on the dorsum, the caudal only intersecting the median carina, which is distinct and regular ; lateral lobes with the dorsal length very considerably greater than the depth, ventral margin sinuato-angulate.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly longitudinal ; interspace between the metasternal lobes hardly narrower than between the mesosternal lobes, pentagonal.
Tegmina very slightly exceeding the apex of the abdomen, but falling considerably short of the caudal femora; marginal field with a very slight proximal dilation, apex rather narrowly rounded, no intercalary vein present.
Wings ample.
Abdomen considerably compressed.
Caudal femora considerably inflated proximad, the distal section quite slender, pattern of the pagina very distinct, regular; caudal tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora, gently sinuate, the external margins with eleven or twelve spines, internal spurs slightly unequal; tarsi with tlistinct, rounded arolia.
General color apple green, becoming more oil green on the caudal femora.
Two broad lines, one on each side, of vandyke brown start from the margins of the fastigium, cross the dorsum of the eyes, extend over the pronotum, and on the tegmina broaden out and occupy the entire discoidal and all except the proximal portion of the marginal fields.
On the head the color of these bars is decidedly blackish brown, about true vandyke brown on the pronotum, becoming dilute and fainter as the stripe broadens on the tegmina, while along the ventral margins of these bars the green is touched with yellowish, while the light proximal section of the marginal field is cream color.
Antennse vandyke brown with the proximal joint green; eyes tawny-olive and bistre mottled; caudal femora with the genicular regions laterad and ventrad black, the pagina with a dorsal longitudinal bar of rhedus glaucipes n.sp.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum of type.
(X 3.)
' olive, except for a pregeniciilar annuliis of clear green; caudal tibise bice green, the genicular section blackish and the distal portion slightly suffused with brownish, spines and spurs tipped with black.
Measurements.
Length of body, 26 mm.
Length of pronotum, 5 " Length of tegmen, 19 " Length of caudal femur, 16.3 " A paratypic series of nine males have also been examined, the dates being as follows: December 21, 1904; January 26, February 15, March 7, 18 and 21, 1905.
This series is rather uniform in size, two females, however, being appreciably smaller than the others.
In color one specimen has the green more glaucous, while several others show a tendency in the same direction.
One specimen has the caudal femora, the lateral lobes and the face suffused with orange vermilion.
The intensity of the longitudinal bars appears to vary very little; on the tegmina, however, some specimens are more strongly colored than others.
ISONYX n. gen.20 This genus probably is closer related to Borellia Rehn ^^ than to Staurorhectus, and may possibly be considered a distinct and separate type with no close relationship to either the above mentioned genera.
The characters are so contradictory and the facies so different that the author does not feel jvistified in making detailed comparisons, but prefers to present the rather striking features of the form in the general description.
It might be added that this position is assigned to Isonyx after studying all the South American Gomphoceri, both genera and species.
Isonyx paraguayensis n. sp.
Types: d^ and ?.
Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 12 ( 9 ) and 27 (cJ^), 1905.
(Foster; Nos.
24 and 165.)
Hebard Collection.
Size rather small; form moderately compressed and slender; surface subsericeous.
Head slightly (cJ^) or considerably (9) shorter than the pronotum, the occiput very slightly elevated and rounded; fastigium subrectangulate in the male, obtuse-angulate in the female, very much shorter than the width at the cephalic angle of the eyes, margins 20 I(Tof , equal; owx, claw.
-1 Proceedings of the U. S. iSational Museum, XXX p. 379.
1906.
37 distinct with a broad sublunate intermarginal depression, no median carina present, fastigium when viewed laterad moderately decUvent: -Isonyx paraguayensis n. gen. and sp.
female type.
(X 3.)
Lateral view of dorsal section of the face vertical, ventrad of the antennae considerably (c?)
or gently (9) retreating; lateral foveolse distinct, cephalic well impressed and excavated, sublanceolate; frontal costa strongly compressed dorsad, regularly expanding ventrad of the antennae to the clypeus, with an additional rotundate expansion at the ocellus, sHghtly sulcate ventrad of the ocellus; eyes subovate in the male, subovoid in the female, flattened cephalad in the latter sex, moderately prominent Fig.
12.
— Isonyx paraguayensis n. gen. and sp.
Dosal \'iew of head and pronotum of female type.
(X 3.)
Fig.
13.
— Isonyx paraguayensis'n.
gen. and sp.
Lateral view of abdomen of male type, (x 6.)
in the male when viewed dorsad ; antennse subequal to the head and pronotum in length in the male, slightly shorter in the female, Pronotum deplanate dorsad, the greatest caudal width contained about once and a quarter in the length; cephalic margin subtruncate, caudal margin obtiise-angulate in both sexes ; median carina distinct but not kigh, severed by the third sulcus shghtly cephalad of the middle; lateral carinse clepsydral, strongly constricted to the first sulcus, absent between the first and second, straight between the second and third, wider spaced caudad of the third sulcus than cephalad of it, arcuate diverging caudad ; lateral lobes with the greatest dorsal length slightly less than the greatest depth, the ventral margin sinuatoangulate, a weak shoulder running diagonally ventro-cephalad on the prozona.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes subquadrate in the male, slightly transverse in the female; metasternal lobes contiguous caudad in the male, separated by a small ovate space in the female.
Tegmina shghtly exceeding the tips of the caudal femora, the tips rounded, costal margin with the proximal lobe small and low; intercalary vein present, distinct but irregular, and becoming lost proximad in the reticulations; ulnar area with a longitudinal dividing vein as distinct as the intercalary in the male, more distinct and regular in the female.
Wings ample.
Abdomen considerably compressed; cerci of the male styliform, apex rather blunt; subgenital plate of the male somewhat contracted and turned in dorsad, apex moderately acute and but slightly produced.
Cephalic and median limbs rather slender, more robust and somewhat inflated in the male.
Caudal femora quite robust, considerably inflated, pagina sharply but not very deeply sculptured ; caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora and with a hardly perceptible sinuation, lateral margins with ten spines in the male and nine in the female, internal spurs moderately arcuate, equal; tarsi with distinct arolia.
General color vandyke brown, mottled and overlaid with seal brown, clove brown and blackish.
Eyes cinnamon (d^) or mummy brown ( ? )
; occiput with two dark arcuate, diverging bars extending caudad from between the eyes.
Pronotum with the lateral carinse, lateral sections of the dorsum of the metazona and the extreme upper portions of the lateral lobes seal brown or blackish, leaving a unicolor median bar extending from the fastigium to the caudal margin of the pronotum, which is more or less hazel in the male and apple green in the female; remaining section of the lateral lobes mottled and hned.
Tegmina with a longitudinal discoidal series of quadrate clove brown spots, the marginal field in the female touched proximad with apple green, and the sutural margin in the male with a touch of vinaceouscinnamon.
Limbs mottled and faintly annulate with the general colors, the caudal femora blackish in the genicular region and with the dorso-lateral face marked with several velvety seal brown spots.
one submesad and another nearer the base; caudal tibiae dull olive with a faint proximal lighter annulus, the spines and spurs tipped with black; tarsi soiled greenish with the proximal part of the first joint, the whole second and the tip of the third blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body, _ 17.7 mm.
21 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.2 " 4.3 " Length of tegmen, 14.5 " 18.3 " Length of caudal femur, 10.7 " 13 " A paratj^ic series of six females has also been examined (February 13, 15 and 27, March 17 and 21, 1905).
This series shows that the species varies somewhat but not greatly in size, and the coloration presents a considerable range of base tones and finer definition of markings without much modification of such pattern as is found in the types.
Two specimens are touched with green as in the ?
type, but both have it weaker on the head and tegmina, and the lateral carinse are broadly marked with the same tint on the metazona, and the caudal femora have distinct oblique blackish bars.
Other specimens have the lighter general colors replaced by ferruginous or wood brown, giving a warm rufescent type or a rather sandy form, while the femoral bars are present as variations irrespectively of color form All the females except the type have the lateral carinse marked with lighter on the metazona.
One of the rufescent type has the dark colors all blackish, presenting a strong contrast with the other ferruginous patches.
SOYLLIN^.
After examining individuals of all the genera of the Scyllinoe except Eupnigodcs McNeill and Zapata Bruner, the following arrangement of the genera seems to be desirable as it appears to express their natural relations : Boopedon Thomas.
Euplectrotettix Bruner.
Scyllina Stal.
Eupnigodcs McNeill.
Zapata Bruner.
Psoloessa Scudcler, Stirapleura Scudder.
Ageneotettix McNeill.
Aulocara Scudder.
Ligurotettix McNeill.
The position of Eupnigodes and Zapata is taken from other authors, while Ligurotettix is placed here instead of in the Epacromioe, as it is quite different from Mecostethus and Epacromia, approaching Aulocara in some respects.
While no doubt somewhat aberrant Ligurotettix is clearly a member of the Scyllinse, the intercalary vein, for example, being no stronger than is the case in many specimens of Aulocara.
EUPLECTROTETTIX Bruner.
1900.
Ewpledrotettix Bruner, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., pp.23; 38 (Eupletrotettix laps.
p. 38).
Included E. ferrugineus, conspersus, schulzi and prasinus Bruner, of which ferrugineus msty be considered the type.
Eupleotrotettix ferrugineus Bruner.
1900.
Euplectrotettix ferrugineus Bruner, Ace.
Gen. Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 39.
[Sandy knolls about Asuncion, Paraguay; Territory of Formosa, Argentina.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 13, 1903; December 16, 1904; January 26, February 10-25, March 2-19, 1905.
9 6'd',lO 9 9 .
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
These specimens are all larger than the measurements given by Bruner, but otherwise do not appear to materially differ.
The series is quite uniform in size, and an average c?
and 9 measure as follows : Length of body, 18.5 mm.
25 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.5 " 4.8 " Length of tegmen, 15.5 " 21 " Length of caudal femur, 11.5 " 15.2 '' Two distinct types of coloration are present, one irregularly mottled and washed with fuscous, the other with a light orange ochraceous median bar on the head and pronotum, flanked by blackish lateral lines, which are filiform on the head and broader on the pronotum.
The tegmina in the latter type also possess a pair of light parallel longitudinal lines on the anal areas.
The indications of femoral bars mentioned by Bruner are quite strong in nearly all the females and several of the males examined, w^hile the blackish genicular region of the cJ' and the orange-red abdomen of the same sex are quite striking.
SCYLLINA St&l.
187 .
Scyllina Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 112.
Included S. peragrans (Stal) and S. viatoria (Saussure) of which the former is the type, the latter having been removed to Plectrophorus {=Plectrotettix) by McNeill.
1895.
Pseudostauronohis Giglio-Tos, Zool.
Jahrb., Abth.
Syst., VIII, p. 808.
Type.— P. brunneri Giglio-Tos.
1897.
Plectrophorus McNeill, Proc.
Davenp.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., VI, p. 198, 251, pi.
4, fig.
21 [not of Ferussac, 1819].
Included Stenobothrus viatorius and gregarms Saussure.
1897.
Plectrotettix ]\IcNeill, Psyche, VIII, p. 71.
Of the various species here considered a series of one hundred and fifty-six specimens have been examined, including typical material of the five species described by Bruner.
Thorough consideration of this material shows that no tangible characters exist for separating Scyllina, Pseudostauronotus and Plectrotettix even as subgenera as proposed by Bruner.^^ The characters on which the subdivisions were there made are: the presence or absence of an intercalary vein in the post-radial area, the cells of this region being accordingly arranged in two series or else irregularly reticulate; the caudal lobe of the pronotum either subequal to or longer than the cephalic; the inner claw of the hind tibiae more or not more than twice the length of the outer, and the number of spines on the outer margin of the hind tibise (9 to 12 or 1.3 to 16).
The first of these characters can usually be depended upon as stable, but in this genus the intercalary vein is by no means a stable character being present or absent in individuals of the same species, and in some cases varying in an individual to the extent that it is distinct on one tegmen and absent on the other.
The proportions of the lobes of the pronotum are also found to vary, as in species belonging unquestionably to the section supposed to have subequal divisions the caudal section distinctly exceeds the cephalic in length, while the reverse is the case in other species.
The length and shape of the tibial claws while diagnostic when the type species alone are compared, is without value when other forms are considered ; specimens of varipes, which is allied to conspersa, has the spurs no longer than is found in Mexican forms referred to Plectrotettix.
The number of tibial spines is a character which appears unworthy of use in separating subgenera, especially when the extent of variation is such as to cause great doubt as to which division a particular specimen belongs.
Wliile the type of the genus Gomphocerus {Epacromia) peragrans Stal,^^ has not been recognized since the original description, a circumstance probably due to the fact that the type locality is an unfre^^Biol.
Cent.
Amer., Orth., II, pp.
99-100.
^' Kongliga Svenska Fregatten Eugenies Resa, Zool., I, p. 343, 1860.
[Puna.
quented one, the description is such that it could be identified with Httle difficulty.
The name Pseudostauronotus was proposed by Giglio-Tos under the impression that the type, hrunneri, was a member of the very insufficiently described genus to which Brunner applied the same name two years previously .^^ As Brunner's name rests on a description of seven words without included species or tjrpe mentioned, it is really a nomen nudum and as such not invalidating the later use of the name by GiglioTos, even when used in misapprehension.
Scudder has shown ^^ from the evidence of material sent him by Brunner that Pseudostauronotus of that author equals his much older Stirapleura.
Some species of the genus appear to resemble species of Boopedon, others forms of Stirapleura and several have a striking superficial resemblance to forms of the Locustine genus Schistocerca.
The following arrangement appears to present their relationship as clearly as possible in a linear arrangement.
Species but little variegated, the coloration rather uniform; lateral carinas of the pronotum moderately arcuate, not prominent; superficially resembling Boopedon.
Scyllina uniformis Rehn.
Scyllina instabilis n. sp.
Types: 6^ and 9 ; Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 5, 1900.
(Adolph Hempel; No.
202.)
A. N. S. Phila.
This species is closely allied to S. uniformis, but differs in the sharper caudal angle of the pronotum, the longer metazona of the pronotum (much longer than the prozona), the slightly narrower interspace between the eyes and the rather different type of coloration.
Size medium ; form robust.
Head with the f astigium broad, rounded rectangulate, depressed area crescentic, interspace between the eyes equal to the interantennal width of the frontal costa, lateral foveolse oblong, punctate, slightly impressed; viewed laterad the fastigium rounds into the frontal costa without' angle; frontal costa broad, subequal, slightly constricted above the antennae, two rows of punctures dorsad; supplementary facial carinas indistinct ventrad; eyes acute reniform, slightly longer than the infraocular portion of the genae; antennae slender, slightly depressed proximad.
Pronotum with the cephalic margin arcuato-truncate, caudal margin obtuseangulate, sharper in the male than in the female; median carina rather high, distinct, cut slightly cephalad of the middle by the " A?w.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova, XXXIII, p. 123, 1893.
« Canad.
Entom., XXIX, p. 76, 1897. distinct transverse sulcus; lateral carinse distinct cephalad and caudad, subobsolete mesad with the constriction slight ; lateral lobes slightly over half as deep again as long, cephalic and caudal margins subparallel, ventral margin rounded obtuse-angulate.
Tegmina distinctly (d^) or moderately exceeding the apex of the abdomen, but only slightly exceeding the tips of the caudal femora; costal expansion slight, ow, apex rotundato-truncate; postradial area irregularly areolate.
Cephalic and median limbs rather slender.
Caudal femora robust, inflated, the distal portion slenderer and with the pregenicular portion constricted, carinse strongly ribbed, pattern of the pagina distinct and regular; caudal tibiae with eleven spines laterad, longer internal spur slightly more than twice the length of the shorter, sharply curved distad but not distinctly hooked.
Figs.
14 and 15.
— Scyllina instabilis n. sp.
Female type.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum and lateral view.
(X 1^.)
General color ranging from ochraceous-rufous (male) to dull hazel and clay color (female).
Head with a blackish postocular bar distinct in the male, slight in the female ; infraocular line very distinct in the male, absent in the female; lateral margins of the frontal costa and ventral portion of the lateral foveolse lined with blackish, more distinct in the male than in the female; face and sides of the head blotched with a darker brown in the female; eyes rather cinnamon in the male, pale Isabella color in the female; antennae of the general color.
Pronotum of the male clear ochraceous-rufous, with the lateral carinae slightly marked cephalad, the lateral lobes with a broad blackish bar extending from the principal transverse sulcus dorsad obliquely ventrad to the ventro-cephalic angle; of the female with a dorsal cross imperfectly indicated by dull hazel on a clove brown ground, lateral lobes reddish clay color with weak longitudinal blotches of broccoli brown.
Tegmina with the anal area obsolete maculations in both sexes, those of the female more distinct than those of the male, remainder with rather narrow rather regularly disposed transverse bars of clove brown, which are weaker distad than proximad in the female, but uniform in strength in the male.
Limbs cream buff marked with clove brown ; caudal femora cream ochraceous-rufous dorsad in the male, not barred, in the female hazel with four rather weak transverse bars of dull brown, carinse of the lateral face dotted with blackish, the pattern of the pagina outline in brownish; ventral face very dark verditer blue; caudal tibise ranging from orange-vermilion (male) or Chinese orange (female) proximad to maroon purple (male) or burnt carmine (female), spine blackish at the tips.
Measurements.
<^ 2 Length of body, 24.5 mm.
33 mm.
Length of pronotum, 5.4 " 6.2 " Length of tegmen 23 '• 28.5 " Length of caudal femur, 18.3 " 21.3 " In addition to the types a paratypic series of five males (September 5 and 14, 1900) have been examined.
Considerable color variation is presented by this series, which is roughly divisible into three types; one (a) with the dorsum of the pronotum unicolorous, which is represented by the type alone, another (h) wdth a rather pale median pronotal line flanked laterad by blackish, represented by three individuals, and a third (c) wath a pronotal cross as in the 9 wdth the caudal margin of the pronotum as pale as the cross, represented by two specimens.
The median pale line is distinctly carried to the tips of the tegmina in one of type b, while the transverse tegminal bars are rather regular and distinct, though not complete in some specimens ; a pale proximal tegminal line is present in two individuals of type h. The dorsiun of the caudal femora is distinctly barred in both of type c, and faintly in one of type b, while the lateral face shows distinct oblique bars in several specimens.
The color of the caudal tibise in all males other than the type is as in the ?
type.
A single 6^ specimen from Sapucay, Paraguay (III 9.05; Foster, No.
195 part), in the Hebard Collection, is referred to this species.
It presents a rather different appearance when compared with the typical series, but the differences are wholly of color.
The dorsum of the pronotum is to a large extent velvety black, broken at the sulci, while the lateral carinse are marked as in specimens of type c, but darker, with the median longitudinal bar present.
Scyllina picta (Bniner).
1900.
P[lectrotettix] pidus Bruner, Ace.
Genera Spec.
Locusts Argent., p. 37, fig.
13.
[Cordoba and Sante Fe Provinces, Carcarana and Rosario, Argentina.]
A topotypic series of three males and three females from Carcarana, collected by Bruner, have been examined.
This species is only known from Cordoba and Sante F6 Provinces, Argentina.
Scyllina brunneri (Giglio-Tos).
Sapucay, Paraguay.
February 13, 1905.
1 d^.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
This specimen is considerably darker than any strongly marked specimen of this species seen.
The whole insect is quite dark except for the light femoral bars, but the pattern is still distinctly visible, the medio-dorsal and lateral bars being present, and the 'tegminal streak clear apple.
green.
The size of this specimen is slightly greater than Matto Grosso specimens.
Scyllina pratensis (Bruner).
1904.
[Plectrotettix] fn-atensis Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 100.
[Pernambuco, Brazil.]
Paratypic specimens, a d^ and 9 .
of this species, loaned by Prof. Bruner, have been examined.
They differ from brasiliensis in the slightly smaller size, rather slenderer form, less divergent carinae of the pronotum and the more acute fastigium.
The color of the caudal tibiae is of little diagnostic value, as in other species of the genus, the male in hand having them wholly red, the female ochraceous with the dorsal surface purplish distad and reddish proximad.
Measurements of paratypcs.
& 9 Length of body, 20.2 mm.
26.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4 " 5 " Length of tegmen, 18.5 " 23.5 " Length of caudal femur, 15 " 17.5 " Scyllina gregaria (Saussure).
1861.
St[enobothrus] gregarius Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, p. 318.
[St. Thomas; Haiti.]
1903.
Plectrotettix gregarius Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Entoin.
Soc, XXIX, p, 133.
[Utuado, Arroyo, Bayamon and Mayaguez, Porto Rico ; Culebra and Vieques Islands.]
A ?
from Vieques Island has been examined in this connection.
The species is closely related to pratensis, but differs in the narrower space between the eyes and the greater interantennal constriction of the frontal costa.
It is interesting to note that the known ranges of these very closely related species are separated by a distance of over two thousand miles, in the land areas of which, as far as at present known, no species of the genus is found.
Scyllina brasiliensis (Bruncr).
1904.
[Pledrotettix] brasiliensis Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 100.
[Southern Brazil.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
1 cJ^, 1 $.
Prof. Bruner's Coll.
Sapucay, Paraguay.
January 28, February 2-27, March 6-10, 1905.
11 d'd', 20 9 9 .
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 1-14, 1900.
4 c^c^, 6 ?
9 .
(Hempel, A. N. S. P.) The Sapucay specimens loaned by Prof. Bruner are marked as types, although the locality southern Brazil is given with the original brief description.
The variation in the intensity of the markings of this species is quite considerable.
The males appear to be, for this genus, rather uniform in coloration, and the variation in size is not very great.
The females, however, vary greatly in the amount and shade of green coloring, some having the dorsal face of the caudal femora, head and the greater portion of the pronotum and pleura rather pale apple green, while others have these parts mottled and overlaid more or less strongly with dull brown.
In a few specimens the green, except the tegminal bar, is wholly replaced with a shade of brown, but in such cases the pattern remains the same.
In the material examined but very few specimens have the characteristic pattern obscured and even in those cases it is not obliterated.
As a series the females are quite uniform in size, one Sapucay female, however, being quite large.
This latter individual is also very deeply colored.
The measurements of Bruner's Sapucay specimens and the large ?
mentioned above are as follows : Bruner.
Bruner.
Large.
6" 9 9 Length of body, 23.5 mm.
30.3 mm.
34.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4.5 " 6 " 6.7 " Length of tegmen, 21 " 26.8 " 29.5 " Length of caudal femur, .... 15 " 20 " 22.3 '' The records of this species given above cover the known region, from Sao Paulo, Brazil, to western Paraguay.
Scyllina conspersa (Bruner).
1904.
[Plectrotettix] conspersus Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer.
Orth., II, p. 100 [No locality.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
December 17, 1901; December 16, 1904.
January 26 and 28, February 8-15, 1905.
9 d'c?, 11 ?
?
.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
Through the kindness of Prof. Bruner I have before me the type of this species, a 9 from Sapucay, Paraguay.
From the material in hand it appears that this species has several color forms, as in brunneri and other species.
The type has the dorsal surface of the head and pronotum uniform wood brown without cruciform markings or longitudinal median stripe, and a majority of the females and several of the males examined belong to this type.
Several males and females have the dorsum dark with weak, but distinct, cruciform pronotal markings and a longitudinal light bar of variable prominence, in some cases absent.
In about half the specimens the heavy blackish markings on the lateral lobes of the pronotum and caudad and ventrad of the eyes are distinct, while the dorsal bars of the caudal femora are distinct in the greater number, weak and interrupted in several others mcluding the type, dorso-lateral carina of the femora marked ventrad with blackish in all specimens, very distinct in some, broken and faint in others, the genicular lobes also blackish.
Measurements of the type.
Length of body, 34.7 mm.
Length of pronotum, 6.9 " Length of tegmen, 32.2 Length of caudal lemur, 22.5 Scyllina sufFusa Rehn.
Scyllina varipes (Bruner).
1905.
Plectrotettix varipes Bruner, Entom.
News, XVI, p. 214.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
Sapucay, Paraguay.
]\Iarch 5 and 15, 1905.
4 6^6^, 5 9 9.
(Foster, Hebard Coll.)
These specimens have been compared with typical individuals kindly loaned by Prof. Bruner.
This species is very richly colored and one of the more easily recognized forms, the distinct femoral bars and the entirely black genicular region being quite striking in all the specimens examined.
Considerable superficial resemblance exists to *S. conspersa, which is found in the same locality, but the angle of the face and the shorter and heavier caudal femora, as well as the color of the caudal tibise, serve to separate it without difficulty.
In the case of this species and S. conspersa the colors of the tibiae appear to be constant, all the specimens of conspersa examined having the distal section dark bluish, while the deep rich crimson of the distal two-thirds of varipes is clear and uniform in the whole series.
Scyllina smith!
Rehn.
Scyllina borellii Giglio-Tos.
Scyllina schistocercoides Rehn.
Scyllina viator ia (Saussure).
Specimens recorded by the author as this species from Texolo, La Joya, San Luis Potosi and Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, when re-examined in the light of recent work on the Mexican and Central American forms of the genus, prove to represent true viatoria.
The males have the dorsal face of the caudal femora distinctly barred, while the females have these parts almost uniform green.
Scyllina calida (Bruner).
1904.
Plectrotettix calidus Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 101 [Cuernavaca, Morelos and Guerrero, Mexico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica.]
Previous records of the author of viatoria from Cuernavaca, Uruapan, Gualajara, Zapotlanejo and Zapotlan should be referred to this species.
The range of variation in size and coloration in this form is very great, some individuals having the colors weak and poorly defined, while other individuals from the same locality are quite richly colored.
The width, number and intensity of the transverse bars of the tegmina also varies greatly as in some individuals they are as broad as the intervening sections, while in others they are broken, imperfect and rather pardaline in character and distribution.
Scyllina excelsa (Bruner).
1904.
Plectrotettix excelsus Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, pp.
101-102.
[Tlalpam and Tacubaya, Mexico.]
A male and two females of this species from Tacubaya show that this is probably the most striking Mexican species.
These individuals have been previously recorded by the author as viatoria.
The rather short tegmina, more robust form and heavier caudal femora will assist in separating this from the allied species.
These specimens show practically no green, the light shades being ochres.
PSOLOESSA Scudder.
1875.
Paoloessa Scudder, Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XVII, p. 512 Included P. texana, jerrughiea and maculipemiis Scudder, of which maculipennis can be considered the type.
Psoloessa maculipennis Scudder.
1875.
Psoloessa maculipeiinis Scudder, Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XVII, p. 513.
San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
August 5, 1903.
1 9 .
(M. E. Hoag.
A. N. S. P.) This species has l^een recorded from Texas, New i\Iexico, Arizona and Cahfornia.
Psoloessa buddiana Brmier.
1889.
Psoloessa Buddiana Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XII, p. 61, t. I, fig.
G. [Carrizo Springs, Southwest Texas.]
Zapotlan, Jahsco, Mexico, July 7, 1902. d", 9 .
(C. H. T. Townsend, A. N. S. P.) These specimens are referred here with some Httle doubt.
The species has been recorded from Montelovez, Coahuila.
STIRAPLEURA Scudder.^s 1876.
Stiraplcura Scudder, Ann.
Rep. Chief of U. S. Engineers, 1876, pt.
3, p. 510.
Type.
— Stirapleura decussata Scudder.
Specimens of all the South American forms of this genus have been examined and the species are here listed to show their relationship.
Stirapleura variabilis Bruner.
Stirapleura signatipennis (Blanchard).
1851.
(Edipoda signatipennis Blanchard, in Gav, Hist.
Fis.
y Polit.
de Chile, Zool., VI, p. 79.
[Coquimbo, Chili.]
Penco, Chili.
December, 1903.
7 9 9.
(C. S. Reed, A. N. S. P.) Concepcion, Chili.
19.
(C. S. Reed, A. N. S. P.) These specimens fully agree with Blanchard's original description.
This is the largest species of the genus, exceeding even the North American S. decussata.
An average 9 measures as follows: Length of body, 25 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4.8 " Length of tegmen, 19 " Length of caudal femur, 16.5 " Stirapleura bruneri n. n. 1900.
Sltirapleura] signatipennis Bruner (not QiJdipoda signatipennis Blanchard), Gen. Sp.
Locusts Argent., p. 34.
[Argentina from the Pampa Central and extending into Uruguay to the eastward.]
This species is quite distinct from signatipennis Blanchard, as six ^* Saussure's Stenobothrus chilensis {Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, p. 319, 1861) is no doubt a member of this genus, and possibly the male of signatipennis, the female being the only sex known to the author.
The size given by him (lengtli with elytra 15 mm.)
is much too large for the male of humilis.
specimens from Carcarana, Argentina, determined by Bruner show.
The Argentine form is smaller, with the lateral carinse of the pronotum more constricted and the coloration more variable than in signatipennis.
This is apparently one of the species on which Brunner erected his insufficiently characterized Pseudostcnironotus,'^'' as specimens received from Saussure from Buenos Ayres bear the manuscript name Pseudostauronotus occidentalis.
Stirapleura humilis (Blanchard).
1851.
Q^dipoda huynilis Blanchard, in Gay, Hist.
Fis.
y Polit.
de Chile, Zool., VI, p. 79.
[Coquimbo, ChiU.]
Penco, Chili.
November and December, 1903, and February, 1904.
17 d'c^, 16 9 ?
, 5 immat.
(C. S. Reed, A. N. S. P.) Concepcion, Chili.
November and December, 1903, and February, 1904.
20 d'd', 7 9 9,3 immat.
(Reed, A. N. S. P.) Coronel, Chili.
January, 1904.
1 d".
(Reed, A. N. S. P.) Longuen, Chili.
February, 1904.
^2d(^, 4 9 9.
(Reed, A. N. S. P.) Guiltio, ChiU.
December, 1903.
2 d" (^ , 6 9 9 .
(Reed, A. N. S. P.) Lota, Chili.
October, 1903.
1 (^ .
(Reed, A. N. S. P.) This large series exliibits a very great amount of individual variation in size and color.
The females range in total length from 13 to 20 millimeters, the males varying proportionately.
The color ranges from a mottled black-brown and gray with femoral bars and weakly lateral carinse of the pronotum, to another with the general color pale with broad dark lateral bars on the dorsum of the head and pronotum with a broad pale median bar, a longitudinal dark bar on the tegmina flanked toward the costa by a pale green line, and the femora with bars and suffused along the dorso-lateral carinse with blackish.
The latter type has the markings of the lateral lobes of the pronotum quite distinct and the genicular regions of the caudal femora and tibise are paler than in the other type, in which these portions are blackish.
These differences are irrespective of locality and date, and are connected by dozens of intermediates.
This species appears to fit Blanchard's form, some specimens agreeing very well with the rather vague description.
It is apparently a common species.
Stirapleura pallida Bruner.
Stirapleura obscura Bruner.
The position of this species is a little doubtful.
In some respects it resembles hnnieri, but its general characters approach brunnea.
Stirapleura brunnea Rchn. "
Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Slor.
Nat.
Genord, XXXIII, p. 123, 1893.
March 6.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
One hundred and twenty-seven persons present.
The death of William W. Jefferis, a member, February 24, 1906, was announced.
The reception of a paper entitled "Phylogeny of the Races of Volutilithes petrosus," by Burnett Smith, Ph.D. (February 23), was reported.
Dr. William P. Wilson made a communication on the Philippine Islands, their resources, their inhabitants and present progress toward independence.
(No abstract.)
March 20.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brow'n, \'ice-President, in the Chair.
Sixty-nine persons present.
Miss Mary S. Holmes made a communication on the Dos Pueblos Caiion, California.
(No abstract.)
Francis William Rawle was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : PHYLOGENY OF THE EACES OF VOLUTILITHES PETROSTJS.
by burnett smith, ph.d. Introduction.
In a recent article * the author has described some of the shell characters which, occurring in the later stages of Gastropod ontogeny and phylogeny, mark the gerontic or senile condition of the individual or of the race.
It was seen that these senile features may at times be as useful to the student of phylogeny as those of the earlier stages, which latter have always received the more attention.
In the paper referred to, the attempt was made to show that the modern Fulgur carica of our New Jersey coast is the descendant of a main F. carica stock, which originated in Miocene time ; and that such forms as F. maxivium and its allies, which had heretofore been regarded as ancestral by Grabau ^ and others, are in reality not so at all, but senile offshoots which at an early period in the history of the stock diverged from the main line of descent.
The paucity of individuals representing the forms considered ancestral, and the extreme abundance of the speci mens of senile forms, was a source of some embarrassment to the author.
It is therefore with considerable satisfaction that I am now able, though in another genus {Volutilithes), to present a series in which the forms comprising the main ancestral stock are nearly as plentiful as those which represent the senile offshoots.
The history of certain of the species of Volutilithes can be well traced in the Eocene of our Gulf States, but nowhere better than in Alabama, where the fine sections along the Alabama and Tombigbee rivers have furnished abundant material for the study of the geological and geographical distribution of these forms.
The races and species studied range from the Matthew's Landing horizon in Alabama to the Jackson horizon in Mississippi, and therefore represent a fair proportion of the phylogenetic units through nearly the whole of the Eocene.
They are likewise restricted to a small geographical area, and the geological sections in which they appear are unusually good.
.
t * Senility among Gastropods, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., May, 1905.
2 Studies of Gastropoda, II — Fulgur and Sycotypus, Am.
Nat., Vol.
37.
The material at my disposal is very full and complete,^ and has enabled me to study large series of individuals.
These series in each case represent the forms in the proportions in which they occur in the field, and therefore offer every opportunity for obtaining the average racial characters in any particular locality or horizon.
Morphology.
The genus Volutilithes is widely distributed throughout our Southern Eocene.
At some localities several sharp and distinct species occur, but at most of the localities Volutilithes is represented by one species and by a particular race of that species.
The term race is used in place of variety, for in these assemblages the individuals frequently differ widely.
There is, however, always an average of characters which stamps the stage of evolution which the race has attained.
Of course, extreme specimens often have more of the features of some other race than of the race to which they belong, but these individuals are always few; and there is never any difficulty in recognizing the general race characters for any particular geographical point, and the phase of phylogenetic development found in the faunule at that point.
In cases of this sort, the introduction of varietal and specific names is to be deprecated, and the adoption of the system of race analysis is strongly urged by the author.
In the forms under consideration, the first two or three whorls are smooth and rounded, constituting the Smooth Stage.
The first ornamental feature to appear on the smooth, rounded whorl is the transverse rib, that is, a slight elevation on the whorl which runs across it from suture to suture.
These early ribs are invariably curved slightly, and each one is simple and uniform from suture to suture.
The curved ribs persist as a rule for about a quarter or a half of a whorl, or even for a much less space; in fact, sometimes we have only one or two of them.
This Curved Rib Stage is short but remarkably constant, and though occasionally much suppressed, has been found in every species and race dealt with in this paper.
The curved ribs, after about one-third of a whorl, change abruptly into the straight ribs of what has been designated the Cancellated * ' It forms part of the Isaac Lea Collection of Eocene MoUusca at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and was brought together largely by Mr. Charles W. Johnson, now of the Boston Society of Natural History.
The collections are a tribute to his skill and perseverance as a collector, and are an example of what museum research collections should be.
* See Dall, Trans.
Wag.
Inst., Vol.
Ill, p. 68.
Stage, which begins by the appearance of two swelhngs or tubercles on each rib.
One of these tubercles is near the suture, and the other at the position which is later occupied by the shoulder angle.
They will be referred to as the suture and shoulder tubercles respectively.
These two tubercles are often of nearly equal size at the start, though frequently the suture tubercle is the larger.
Tubercles other than these two mentioned are seldom visible on an early rib ; but when a sufficiently small shell is obtainable, other smaller tubercles can be seen upon each rib, and the tubercles diminish in size quite regularly from the suture tubercle downward.
Each tubercle is connected with the corresponding tubercle of the next rib by a faint spiral, the first appearance of the definite cancellation which later becomes more pronounced.
In most specialized forms the shoulder angle develops shortly after the appearance of the tubercles.
The cancellated condition is found more or less well developed in all the different races.
In primitive species ^ it may persist as a constant feature to the end of the individual's life; but in most forms it covers only a few whorls and is more variable than the preceding Curved Rib Stage, in that certain of its features change as the shell grows.
These changes are gradual, but they render the end of the Cancellated Stage much less definite than its beginning.
They may be briefly summarized as follows : The tubercles, with the exception of the shoulder tubercle, usually tend to degenerate, and soon disappear, though their corresponding faint spirals may sometimes persist.
The shoulder tubercle, on the contrary, becomes stronger and sharper.
First the ribbing above the shoulder disappears, and later the ribbing below the shoulder shortens, and with its practical disappearance what might be termed the Spiny Stage is inaugurated.
In the Spiny Stage the shoulder tubercle is now sharp and spine-like.
Other tubercles have disappeared and the spirals are, as a rule, restricted to the region of the anterior siphon.
Ribbing has practically gone, but very short rudiments may sometimes still be present below the shoulder spines.
The commencement of this stage.is never sharp, for it is the result of gradual change from the preceding one.® It is 5 In A771.
Nat.
for 1902, Vol.
36, p. 926, Grabau says: "It is perhaps not too much to say that in the majority of the larger phyletic series, except those highly specialized, the radicle is a smooth, round-whorled form, succeeded by types in which the adults are ribbed, and later cancellated, after which progressive modification may be carried further."
'No morphological distinction is made between spine and tubercle.
"The writer considers that the difference between the small rounded tubercle of the early whorls and the large, sharp spine of the later whorl is one merely of degree.
not reached in all species, but occurs usually as the end term of normal progressive development in the ontogeny, and of slow and even evolution in the phylogeny.
The Spiny Stage, then, may sometimes be present as a well-defined stage, but it may also be-accompanied by extreme individual variation and by features of senility.
These latter characterize the Senile Stage, and may follow regularly after the Spiny Stage; but, as stated above, they not infrequently are thrown back by acceleration, and found together in the same whorl with the features of the Spiny Stage.
The Senile Stage, whether following normally after the Spiny Stage or associated with it, is always easily distinguished.
In the forms under consideration its most important features are the following : ^ 1.
Tendency for the shoulder spines to pass into a shoulder keel.
2.
Irregularity of growth lines.
3.
Thickening of the shell.
4.
Encroachment of the anal siphon upward on the preceding whorl.
5.
Protrusion of the mantle m the region of the anal siphon, producing a smoothing of the preceding whorl by a shelly overgrowth.
These five characters are all sometimes found together in one individual or race, but, as a rule, only two or three of them are so associated.
In studying the development of the shell features, each whorl has been taken up in detail, and its particular ornamental characteristics noted.
Of course, this system is more or less arbitrary, and at times K3 Fig.
1.
— Line shows position taken for the end of the first whorl.
inaccurate, on account of the acceleration of features in certain individuals.
In the following study, the writer has endeavored to get the average characters for a certain whorl, except where individual variation is great.
In this latter case the variations are noted.
The word spine is therefore used, throughout this paper, simply in a descriptive sense, and implies no difference from the early tubercle, except that it is larger and sharper.
Both are produced by the same fold in the mantle, and every gradation between the two is observable."
Smith, Burnett, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., May, 1905, p. 347.
This opinion is quite different from that held by Grabau (see Am.
Nat., Vols.
36, 37).
^ For a discussion of senility see Smith, Burnett, Proc.
Acad.
N^at.
Sci.
Phila., May, 1905.
In counting the whorls, it has been attempted to have the end of the first whorl come in about the position shown in the figure.
It is impossible to make an absolutely exact count, but if care is used there will seldom be much of an error in the last whorl.
As stated above, the method is purely arbitrary, but it seemed to the writer to be the only practical way in which the statistics of the development of ornamental features could be arranged.
Fig.
2.
— Volutilithes limopsis Conrad.
Matthew's Landing, Ala. Apex enlarged, showing smooth stage followed by the curved rib stage, which begins in the latter part of whorl four.
Whorl five shows the cancellated stage.
Length = 1.6 mm.
Volutilithes limopsis Conrad.
Locality — Matthew's Landing, Ala.
This species was originally described by Conrad in Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 2d Series, Vol.
IV, p. 292, PI.
47, fig.
24.
Whorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 4 — Smooth and rounded, except toward the end, where the curved rib stage may start.
Whorl 5 — The curved rib stage often commences early in five, persisting as a rule for about a quarter of a whorl.
The cancellated stage follows abruptly with its straight, tubercled ribs.
These tubercles are largest at the suture, decreasing regularly in size anteriorl}^ on each rib.
Each tubercle is connected with the corresponding tubercle of the next rib by a faint spiral.
A shoulder angle is never developed.
Whorls 6, 7 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much like the latter part of five.
Whorl 8 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much like six and seven.
The tubercles nearest the suture are the strongest, and they diminish in size regularly as the rib is followed anteriorly.
The ribs are also less prominent anteriorly, disappearing entirely on the branchial siphon.
Spirals cover the entire whorl.
Whorls 9, 10 — jNIuch as in eight, the cancellated stage still persisting.
The tubercles are a little sharp, and the protruded mantle shows a very slight tendency to smooth the preceding whorl — a tendency which in later forms results in a senile feature.
Remarks.
— This form possesses no stage later than the cancellated stage and never has a shoulder angle.
The suture tubercle is throughout life the dominant one.
The specimens are remarkably uniform, no perceptible individual variation occurring.
The smooth stage is very long.
From its primitive characteristics, and its geological position near the base of the Eocene, the wTiter has no hesitation in assigning to it an ancestral position among the races and species dealt with in this paper.
Fig.
3.
— Volutilithes rugatus Conrad.
Matthew's I>anding, Ala.
Adult individual.
Length = 44 mm.
Volutilithes rugatus Conrad.
Locality — Matthew's Landing, Ala.
This species was originally described by Conrad as Volutilithes rugata in Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 2d Series, Vol.
IV, p. 292, PI, 47, fig.
32.
Whorls 1,2, 3 — Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 4 — Smooth and rounded, except near the end, where in many individuals the ciu'ved rib stage begins.
Whorl 5 — The curved rib stage usually occupies the latter part of four and early part of five.
Its ribs are wide apart and it persists for about a quarter of a whorl.
It is followed by the straight, tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
The two upper tubercles are the largest, those below becoming fainter anteriorly.
The ribs die away anteriorly on the branchial siphon.
Each tubercle is connected with the corresponding one of the next whorl by a spiral.
Whorls 6, 7, 8 — All characterized by the cancellated stage.
Changes, however, take place during these whorls.
At first the ornamentation, is much like that of the cancellated stage in V. limopsis, but later the ribs become relatively farther apart and broader (in a spiral direction).
At the same time many fine riblets are introduced between the primary ribs.
The tubercles are largest near the suture and become smaller as the ribs die away anteriorly.
There is never a distinct shoulder angle.
The whorls are covered with spirals.
Whorl 9 — Individual variation now sets in.
In some specimens the whorl is much as in eight.
In others the rib is swollen into a very rounded, transversely long angle which hardly occupies the position of the shoulder angle of later forms, and in addition the shells become thick.
In all individuals the mantle protrudes in the region of the anal siphon, and tends to smooth the preceding whorl with a shelly overgrowth.
This latter is never extreme.
Wliorl 10 — Much as in nine, though here the forms with swollen ribs predominate.
In many specimens the shells become thick, the growth lines irregular, and the smoothing of the preceding whorl by the shelly overgrowth is quite well marked, though it never becomes extreme as in some forms of later time.
Remarks.
— This species in its earlier stages of growth closely resembles V. limopsis.
It differs radically, however, from that form with the progress of its ontogeny.
Though its individuals vary greatly, it is nevertheless entitled (in the opinion of the author) to rank as a distinct species.
In its later whorls there is great individual variation, accompanied by senile features.
These latter, though never extreme, are well marked.
They comprise protrusion of the mantle in the region of the anal siphon, producing a smoothing of the preceding whorl by a shelly overgrowth; thickening of the shell, and irregularity of growth lines.
There is no spiny stage.
V. rugatus is considered to be a short senile offshoot from V. limopsis.
In the absence of intermediate forms this evolution must have taken place either at some other locality or at some geologically earlier date.
Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
The forms described at the present day under this name represent an assemblage of races.
If every gradation of evolutional development did not exist among them, many of these races would doubtless now be regarded as distinct species.
In fact, there are several discarded specific names which were used in this way by Conrad and Lea.
Each race is an assemblage of individuals, showing more or less individual variation, yet nevertheless possessing on the average definite racial characters.
In other words, the majority of specimens from any one locality or horizon show a certain stage of evolution.
Some of the specimens may show developmental features characterizing either a more primitive or a less primitive race; but these specimens are few, and are not typical of the average of individuals from the locality or horizon to which they belong.
The races of V. petrosus are known to range from the A^anafalia beds to the Jackson beds inclusive.
The original specific description '^ is accompanied by a figure of a member of the Claiborne race.
Though this particular race is perhaps not the most typical expression of the V. petrosus main stock, the writer feels that no better method can be employed than to use the name V. petrosus to designate the assemblage of races under discussion.
Several of the races differ in the development of senile characters from the V. petrosus main stock, but there is every gradation between these and the representatives of the main stock.
On account of this gradation the senile forms are included as races of V. petrosus, in spite of the fact that their old individuals differ greatly in appearance from those of the more normal type.
The young of all the races, senile and otherwise, are remarkably uniform and constant.
The early whorls indicate clearly that they are all descended from a cancellated ancestor, and bear a strong resemblance, especially in the cancellated stage, to the characters of V. limopsis.
In the absence of any record of a V. petrosus being found below the horizon of the Nanafalia beds, the author believes that it is perfectly safe to conclude that all these races in question are descended from the V. limopsis of the Matthew's Landing horizon.
Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Nanafalia Race.
Locality — Nanafalia, Ala.
The only specimen known to the writer from this horizon is not sufficiently well preserved to admit of its accurate study whorl for whorl.
It is, however, a perfectly normal specimen of moderate size and expresses the general characters of the V. petrosus main stock.
It is about the size of the eight-whorled individuals of the Gregg's Landing or the Jackson races.
When it is placed in line with such specimens, the three shells exhibit very few differences.
This Nanafalia individual * Valuta petrosa Conrad, "Fossil Shells of the Tertiary Formations of North America. '
' has spines in its last whorl which make it resemble the Jackson race quite closely.
In this respect it is nearer the Jackson specimens than the Gregg's Landing specimens.
Its mantle perhaps smooths the preceding whorl a trifle more than does the mantle in the Jackson race.
However, in its general features, it is very close to the Jackson form.
The amount which the mantle has smoothed the preceding whorl is about equal to that found in shells of the same size from Gregg's Landing.
Volutilitlies petrosus Conrad.
Gregg's Landing Race.
Locality — Gregg's Landing, Alabama River, Ala. Whorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 4 — The curved rib stage begins early in four.
It persists for a quarter or a third of a whorl, but changes abruptly into the cancellated stage with its straight, tubercled ribs.
The shoulder and suture tubercles are of about the same size at first.
By the end of four the shoulder angle is quite well developed.
Whorl 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much like the latter part of four.
Suture and shoulder tubercles are of about the same size.
The shoulder angle is well developed.
Tubercles are connected by fine spirals.
Whorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage, but changes occur.
The shoulder tubercle is becoming stronger, while the suture tubercle is getting weaker.
The ribbing above the shoulder angle is also becoming weaker.
Whorl 7 — Still characterized by the cancellated stage, but here the suture tul^ercle has disappeared and is only represented by its spiral.
The ribbing above the shoulder angle has gone, though it is still well represented below the shoulder angle.
Whorl 8 — Still characterized by the cancellated stage and much like whorl seven.
Below the shoulder angle the whorl is covered with fine spirals.
There is a very slight smoothing of the preceding whorl by the protruded mantle, for the end of the cancellated stage is not sharp like that of the curved rib stage.
Whorl 9 — From here on individual variation is great.
Some forms have a whorl much as in eight, with the ribbing still well developed below the shoulder, though the shoulder tubercles are more spinelike.
In other specimens the ribbing below the shoulder is gone, the shoulder spines are more extreme, and the anal siphon shows a tendency to encroach upward on the preceding whorl.
In addition, these latter forms have a heavier shell, and the shelly smoothing of the preceding whorl by the protruded mantle is more marked.
Whorl 10 — Here again we have every gradation between forms characterized by the spiny stage, in which the preceding whorl has been only slightly smoothed by the mantle, and forms which show a moderate development of senile features.
These latter show the tendency for the spines to pass into a shoulder keel.
They also possess a thick shell with irregular growth lines, the anal siphon encroaches upward, and the preceding whorl is smoothed by the shelly overgrowth of the protruded mantle.
Though these latter forms possess senile features, these features are only slightly developed.
They are, in fact, just the beginnings of those characteristics which become so extreme in some of the races of later time.
Remarks.
— This race occurs in the Gregg's Landing marl.
The greater number of individuals of the Gregg's Landing race have a perfectly normal ontogeny, and in their later whorls have the spiny stage well marked.
These individuals belong therefore to the V. petrosus main stock, and as they form a majority of the assemblage, they determine the position of the race to be on the main stock.
A minority of individuals, however, show senile featiu'es.
These senile features are not well marked, but they indicate that here in this race was inaugurated the tendency which resulted in the development of the senile races of later time.
In other words, we have here the point where a senile offshoot is starting to branch from the main ancestral stock.
The marks of this tendency are but slight, and the individuals are few; yet, nevertheless, the tendency is plainly recognizable.
Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Bell's Landing Race.
Locality — Bell's Landing, Alabama River, Ala. Whorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 4 — The curved rib stage commences early in four and persists for about a quarter of a whorl.
It is followed by the straight, tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
The suture and shoulder tubercles are about equal in size, and the shoulder angle soon becomes well marked.
Spirals connect the tubercles.
Whorl 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and closely resembles the latter part of foiu'.
Whorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage.
Suture tubercles grow w^eaker, shoulder tubercles grow stronger.
Ribbing above the shoulder also grows weaker, but it is well marked below the shoulder.
Whorl 7 — Much as in six.
Whorl 8 — Still characterized by the cancellated stage, but the suture tubercles and the ribbing above the shoulder have now gone.
Shoulder tubercles are stronger.
Ribbing below the shoulder is weaker.
The beginning of the tendency to form a shelly overgrowth is seen, and the cancellated stage comes to an end.
Whorl 9 — Ribbing is about gone and the shoulder tubercles have become spines.
In other words, the spiny stage has set in.
In most individuals, however, the senile characters are also mingled with those of the spiny stage.
The shell gets thicker, and the mantle protrudes in the region of the anal siphon, and smooths the preceding whorl with a shelly overgrowth.
This latter, though not extreme, often covers the spines of eight, which, however, are visible through it.
Whorls 10, 11, 12 — In these whorls we simply have an exaggeration of the characters of nine.
The features of the spiny stage and the marks of senility are found together in the same whorl.
Toward the end senile characters are quite well marked.
The shell becomes thick, the growth lines irregular, the anal siphon encroaches upward, and the shoulder spines tend to pass into a shoulder keel.
In addition, the shelly overgrowth produced by the protruded mantle is well marked, and in some specimens may be quite thick.
As a rule, however, the spines of the preceding whorl can be counted through the shelly envelope.
Remarks.
— ^This race occurs in the Bell's Landing marl.
Though occasionally a rare specimen may nearly approach the V. petrosus main stock in its general features, the vast majority of individuals show such a development of senile characters that it is necessary to consider the race to be a senile offshoot from the main stem.
These senile marks though typical are not highly developed.
This race unquestionably sprang from the senile individuals which occurred as a minority in the otherwise normal, geologically earlier Gregg's Landing race.
Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Wood's Bluff Race.
Locality — ^Wood's Bluff, Tombigbee River, Ala. Whorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 4 — The curved rib stage appears early in four and persists for about a quarter of a whorl.
It is followed by the straight, tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
The suture and shoulder tubercles are about equal in size.
A shoulder angle soon develops.
The tubercles are connected by spirals.
Whorl 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and closely resembling the latter part of four.
Whorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage.
Ribbing above Fig.
4.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Wood's Bluff Race.
Wood's Bluff, Ala. Apex enlarged.
The first three whorls are characterized by the smooth stage.
In whorl four the passage from the curved rib stage to the cancellated stage can be seen.
Whorl five shows tlie cancellated stage.
It will be noted that the stages are all more accelerated than in text fig.
2.
Length = 1.. 5 mm.
the shoulder growing weaker, though well marked below the shoulder.
Suture tubercles weaker, shoulder tubercles stronger.
Whorl 7 — Much as in latter part of six.
Whorl 8 — Still characterized by the cancellated stage, but the suture tubercles are gone, and are represented only by their spiral.
Ribbing above the shoulder has disappeared, though it is still present below the shoulder.
The ribbing below the shoulder is, however, weaker.
The tendency to form a shelly overgrowth is plainly seen.
Though its end is not w^ell marked, the cancellated stage comes to a close with this whorl.
Wliorl 9 — The spiny stage usually begins with this whorl.
It is, however, accompanied by well-developed senile features, the most marked of wliich is the shelly overgrowth, which is produced by the protrusion of the mantle on to the preceding whorl.
Whorls 10, 11, 12 — Here we have simply an exaggeration of what occurs in nine.
The shelly overgrowth is extreme, obscuring the ornamentation of several of the earlier whorls.
The shell becomes thick, the growth lines irregular, the anal siphon encroaches upward, and the shoulder spines tend to pass into a shoulder keel.
Remarks.
— This is typically a senile race.
No individuals of more than eight whorls ever approach in their general appearance the V. petrosus main stock.
All specimens exhibit senile characters.
These latter are much more extreme than those found in the geologically earlier Bell's Landing race.
It has unquestionably been evolved from the Bell's Landing race by an exaggeration of senile characters.
Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Hatchetigbee Bluff Race.
Locality — Hatchetigbee Bluff, Tombigbee River, Ala.
The series of young individuals at hand is so small, and the ghelly overgrowth produced by the protruded mantle is so great in the old individuals, that a detailed study of the specimens, whorl for whorl, is not practical.
These forms are extraordinarily senile, and have been derived from the geologically earlier Wood's Bluff race by an exaggeration of the senile features.
The shoulder spines tend to pass into a shoulder keel, the shell is thick, the growth lines irregular, the anal siphon encroaches upward, and the preceding whorl is encumbered with the shelly overgrowth.
This last feature is very extreme.
In addition the race is, on the whole, a dwarfed race, the full-grown individuals being smaller than those of the earlier less senile races.
This race is the end term of the senile offshoot which diverged from the V. petrosus main stock in Bell's Landing time.
The author knows of no authentic abnormal senile specimen from beds higher than the Hatchetigbee horizon in Alabama or Mississippi.^ Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Yellow Bluff Race.
Locality — Yellow Bluff, Alabama River, Ala.
Unfortunately the material at hand is not sufficiently well preserved to give a detailed description, whorl for whorl.
Nevertheless, there is no difficulty in making out the following points.
The great majority of individuals possess, in general, the characters of the V. petrosus main stock, and have arrived at little more than that evolutional stage which is typified by the Gregg's Landing race.
Though a few individuals exhibit senile characters, these latter are only very slightly developed, and we are undoubtedly warranted in placing the Yellow Bluff race on the Volutilithes petrosus main stock as the descendant of the Gregg's Landing race.
The exact stratigraphical horizon for this race is unknown to the 'See Trans.
Wag.
Inst., Vol.
Ill, part 1, p. 7.5.
The statement made on this page by Dall is not borne out by a study of full collections.
He says that Athleta "is foreshadowed by the distorted specimens of Volutilithes petrosa to which I have already referred, and which occur from the Lower Eocene of Alabama (Wood's Bluff) up to the Claiborne Sands and the beds known as Jackson, overlying the Claiborne, associated with the undistorted normal form, which is always more numerous."
author.
It cannot, however, be lower than that of the Bell's Landing marl.
If it is at the same horizon, we have an example of a slightly senile race (the Bell's Landing) living at the same period of time not far from a race (the Yellow Bluff) which exhibits, on the whole, main stock characteristics.
If, on the other hand, the Yellow Bluff race occupies a position above the Bell's Landing marl, we have a primitive race overlying a more specialized race.
If this latter is the case, a discordance between the geological and phylogentic successions has been produced by the migration into the section of the Yellow Bluff race.
Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Lower Claiborne Horizon, Claiborne, Ala.
Very poorly preserved specimens are found in these beds.
They are determinable as representatives of the V. petrosus main stock, but a detailed study, whorl for whorl, is not practical.
Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Claiborne Race.
Locality — Claiborne, Ala. Whorls 1, 2, 3 — Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 4 — Early in four the curved rib stage appears.
It is not well marked, persisting for but a short time, and is soon followed by the straight, tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
The shoulder angle soon develops.
The suture and shoulder tubercles are of about the same size.
Wliorl 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much as in the latter part of four.
Spirals not strong.
Suture tubercle weakens, shoulder tubercle becomes stronger.
Whorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage.
The suture tubercle and the ribbing above the shoulder are almost gone.
Shoulder tubercle stronger.
Ribbing below shoulder is weaker.
Whorl 7 — The ribbing and the suture tubercles disappear, and the shoulder tubercles develop into spines during this whorl.
In other words, we have the transition from the cancellated to the spiny stage.
W^iorls 8, 9, 10— All characterized by the spiny stage, but individual variation is great.
Senile features do not appear.
Remarks.
— Occurs in the Claiborne Fossiliferous Sand.
This race exhibits in general the characters of the V. petrosus main stock, though it is probably not the most typical expression of that stock as it existed at the time of the Claiborne deposits.
The most notable features are the shortening of the curved rib stage and the acceleration of the spiny 66 [March, stage, which is long and well developed though accompanied by considerable individual variation.
The curved rib and cancellated stages are very short.
Fig.
5 — Volutilithes sayana Conrad.
Claiborne, Ala. Apex enlarged, showing ornamental features thrown far back by acceleration.
The smooth stage is almost entirely confined to the large first whorl.
In whorl two the transition from the straight untubercled ribs (suppressed curved rib stage) to the cancellated stage is seen.
Whorl three shows the cancellated stage.
Length = 1.8 mm.
Fig.
6.
— Volutilithes sayaria Conrad.
Claiborne, Ala.
Adult individual.
Length = 48 mm.
Volutilithes sayana Conrad.
Locality — Claiborne, Ala.
This species was originally described as Valuta sayana by Conrad.
^° Whorl 1 — Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 2 — Smooth and rounded at first, but soon ribbing begins.
Untubercled ribs are the first ribs, but they are not curved.
Neverthe1" Fossil Shells of the Tertiary Formations of North America.
less they probably represent the curved rib stage and will be assigned to it.
They persist for only a short while and are followed by the tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
At first the svitiire tubercle is considerably larger than the shoulder tubercle.
A shoulder angle soon develops, and by the end of the whorl the suture and shoulder tubercles are about of the same size.
Wliorls 3, 4 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much as in latter part of two.
Changes however occur, for the ribbing above the shoulder and the suture tubercles weaken, though the shoulder tubercle becomes stronger.
The spirals are not well marked.
After whorl four great individual variation sets in.
The cancellated stage may persist through the sixth whorl.
After this the individual variation is still more marked.
Many specimens pass through the spiny stage, though it is considerably modified by the development of numerous secondary spirals and riblets.
In many specimens the shoulder spines are long in a transverse direction and notched by several spirals.
Sometimes the whorl may be of a rounded shape, with the spines blunt, weak and obscure.
Reyyiarks.
— Occurs in the Claiborne Fossiliferous Sand.
This most variable species has an apex very different from those of the other forms considered in this paper.
The smooth stage is nearly all confined to the first whorl, which is extraordinarily large for Volutilithes.
By a careful study of its ontogeny it is plain, however, that this species was derived by acceleration from the Claiborne race of V. petrosus, or else from some form verj'' close to it.
We are forced, then, to the conclusion that shells with rather different apices may sometimes be very nearly related ; in spite of the fact that, as a rule, this condition precludes close affinity.
Though this variable species may have given rise to species and races of later age than the Claiborne, the writer has no evidence to that effect.
The anal siphon does not encroach upward, and the protruded mantle smooths the preceding whorl but little; nevertheless, the thickness of the shell and the irregularity of growth lines in many of the older individuals point to the fact that it is a senile race.
It is well developed in the Claiborne horizon at several points, where it is always variable and more numerous than the Claiborne race of V. petrosus.
From this latter race it was probably evolved during or just before Claiborne time, and may therefore be considered as a senile offshoot from the T^ petrosus main stock.
Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Jackson Race.
Locality — Jackson, ]\Iiss.
An individual of this race was originally described by Conrad as Volutalithes symmetrica}^ Whorls 1, 2 — Smooth and rounded.
^V\rhQj.l 3 — ^xhe curved rib stage commences early in three and persists for about a quarter of a whorl.
It is followed by the straight tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
The suture and shoulder tubercles are about equal in size.
By the end of the whorl the shoulder angle is well marked.
Wliorls 4, 5 — Characterized by the cancellated stage.
Ribbing above the shoulder weakens , as does also the suture tubercle.
Shoulder tubercle gets stronger.
Ribbing below the shoulder well marked and crossed by fine spirals.
Whorl 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much as in five.
Fig.
7—Volutilithes petrostis Conrad.
Jackson Race.
Jackson, Miss.
Apex enlarged.
Whorls one and two show the smooth stage.
Whorl three shows the curved rib stage and whorl four the cancellated stage.
It will be noted that the stages are all more accelerated than in text fig.
4, but less accelerated than in text fig.
5.
Length = 1.3 mm.
Wliorl 7 — Characterized by the cancellated stage.
Ribbing gone above the shoulder, but well developed below the shoulder, and crossed by fine spirals.
Suture tubercles almost gone though represented by a spiral.
Shoulder tubercle stronger and sharper.
Whorl 8 — Much like seven, but toward the end the ribs disappear, the shoulder tubercle becomes a spine, and the cancellated stage comes to a close.
Whorl 9 — Characterized by the spiny stage.
High shoulder spines and no ribs.
Spirals well developed, but strongest on the anterior siphon.
Wliorl 10 — In many individuals the shoulder spines tend to pass into a shoulder keel, the shell thickens, and the growth lines become irregular.
The shelly smoothing of the preceding whorl by the protruded mantle is only slight.
This whorl is characterized by the senile stage. "
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., Vol.
VII, p. 260.
In this case "Volutalithes" is probably a typographical error.
Remarks.
— This race shows a regular and even ontogeny.
The different stages are quite distinct.
The senile characters are not thrown back into the spiny stage but follow regularlj^ after it, and constitute the culminating feature of individual development.
These marks of old age are never extreme.
Acceleration early in life has placed the curved rib stage at the beginning of the third whorl, and the cancellated stage has been correspondingly lengthened.
The cancellated stage is longer here than in any of the other forms considered in this paper except V. limopsis.
This assemblage is the last representative of Volutilithes in the Alabama and Mississippi Eocene.
It fulfills every requirement for position on the V. petrosus inain stem, it is the culminant race of the stock, and has attained its characters by a slow and even phylogenetic development.
Volutilithes haleanus Whitfield.
Locality — Lisbon, Ala. Whorls 1, 2 — Smooth and rounded.
Whorl 3 — Smooth and rounded at fii'st, but later the curved rib stage begins.
This persists for about a quarter of a whorl, and is then followed by the straight, tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage.
The shoulder tubercle is just a trifle larger than the suture tubercle.
The shoulder angle is well marked by the end of the whorl.
Wliorl 4 — Characterized by the cancellated stage.
Shoulder angle.
Shoulder tubercle stronger than the suture tubercle.
Whorls 5, 6 — Characterized by the cancellated stage and much like whorl four.
During these whorls the suture tubercle tends to attain the same strength as the shoulder tubercle.
Spirals not very well marked.
Whorl 7 — From here on the primitive cancellated stage is replaced by what may be called a modified cancellated stage.
The suture and shoulder tubercles are now of about the same size.
The ribs are crowded so closely together that they are almost in contact, being separated by a mere depressed line.
The shoulder tubercles are so close together that the general effect is that of a whorl with a shoulder keel.
Whorls 8, 9 — ]\Iuch as in seven, but toward the end the shell becomes thick and the growth lines slightly irregular.
The protruded mantle produces only an insignificant smoothing of the preceding whorl.
Remarks.
— By a study of its early whorls it is evident that this form was at some time derived from the V. petrosus main stock.
Its cancellated stage closely resembles that of the races of V. petrosus until we reach the seventh whorl.
After that it is quite different in its general 70 [March, characters from every other American species of Volutilithes.
Just when it diverged from the V. petrosus main stock the writer is not prepared to say.
This race has, properly speaking, no senile stage.
In order to show more clearly some of the important correlations between the ontogeny and phylogeny, the following tables are introduced.
The figures stand for the number of the whorl, while the letters are used for the different ontogenetic stages as follows : A — Smooth Stage.
B — Curved Rib Stage.
C — Cancellated Stage.
D — Spiny Stage.
E — Senile Stage.
I — Individual Variation.
This last may appear anjnA^here, but it usually follows stage C. B is exaggerated in all the tables.
V. limopsis.
Matthew's Ldg.
V. petrosus.
Gregg's Lclg.
Race.
V. petrosals.
Jackson Race.
A f ^1 c A B| 1 C t).„ a / \ B| 1 c b ix.i^ 1 E. is very slight.
E. is never extreme Table I.
— Showing slow, even evolution in the main stock, accompanied by acceleration.
V. limopsis.
Matthew's Ldg.
V. petrosus.
Gregg's Lag.
Race.
V. petrosus.
Bell's Ldg.
Race.
V. petrosus.
Wood's Bluff' Race.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 A 1^ 1 c ,iE A 1 1 c Da, al A 1 ^1 c Da A 1 Pi c Ea .dh 1 E. is very slight.
E. is slight.
E. is extreme.
Table.
II.
— Showing senility in an offshoot.
The senility increases, not by an acceleration, but by an exaggeration of senile features.
1906.]
71 10 11 12 T''.
limopsis.
Matthew's Ldg.
T'.
petrosus.
Gregg's Ldg.
Race.
V. petrosus.
Claiborne Race.
V. sayana.
Claiborne.
A I il c A \ ^1 1 c D.,if A 1 ( .
1 D..
I A ft 1 c 1 , Daadf 1 E. is very slight.
I. is great.
D. is much modified.
I. is great.
Table III.
— Evolution of F. sayana through the Claiborne race of V. petrosus.
Shows general acceleration, condensation of B, and reduction in the number of whorls.
12 3 4 5 (•, 7 8 10 11 12 V. limopsis.
Matthew's Ldg.
V. rugaius.
Matthew's Ldg.
A fi \i c. A 1 1 '1 C I E 1 1 r^ rI. is the transition between C. and E Table IV.— Shows evolution of V. rugatus from the primitive ancestral stock by the appearance of senile features in the last whorl or in the last two whorls.
Range and Distribution.
Of the forms considered in this paper Volutilitkes limopsis stands out distinctly as fulfilling all the requirements of an ancestor.
Among other characters, the long smooth stage and the absence of senile features show its primitive state.
The general likeness of the full-grown shells to the young of many later species, together with its low geological position, justifies us in considering it to be the form from which were descended the races which followed Matthew's Landing time.
In the same horizon with V. limopsis we find V. rugatus.
The young of the latter show many of the features of the adult V. limopsis, while the old individuals are often slightly senile and quite different in appearance from the small specimens.
It was undoubtedly derived from V. limopsis, or some closely allied form, and may be considered a short senile offshoot which did not survive the Matthew's Landing.
In the Nanafalia the first member of the Volutilithes petrosus assemblage makes its appearance, and is representative of the V. petrosus main stock.
After the Nanafalia the races of V. petrosus are a prominent feature of the faunas.
Though the adults of these races may differ greatly, the young resemble each other closely, and indicate their common derivation from V. limopsis.
In the Gregg's Landing marl, the Gregg's Landing race represents the V. petrosus main stock, though a few of its individuals show slightly senile tendencies.
In the Bell's Landing marl the Bell's Landing race has separated from the main stock with the evolution of senile features.
It is the first member of a senile offshoot which in later time produces the Wood's Bluff and Hatchetigbee Bluff races.
These latter are evolved from the Bell's Landing race, not so much by an acceleration as by an exaggeration of the marks of senility.
The Hatchetigbee Bluff race is without descendants and the last term of this senile series.
Its individuals are dwarfed and stunted, reflecting plainly the unfavorable conditions under which they lived, and which soon caused the extinction of the race.
While in some localities the members of the Volutilithes petrosus assemblage were following out a line of evolution which resulted in their elimination from the geological record, the main stock was still flourishing in nearby regions.
For instance, at Yellow Bluff on the Alabama river we have a representative of the V. petrosus main stock.
The YeUow Bluff race is indicative of favorable conditions at that locality.
In the Lower Claiborne the V. petrosus main stock occurs, though it is represented only by a few poorly preserved specimens.
The Claiborne, however, not only gives us the Claiborne race but an offshoot from it, namely, V. sayana.
This Claiborne race is an assemblage of rather accelerated and variable forms which probably express the effect of shallow water marine conditions upon the main stock.
By an acceleration of ornamental features V. sayana was derived either from the Claiborne race or from some very closely related form.
Passing now into the Jackson, we find the last member of this phylogenetic series which we have traced up from the Matthew's Landing horizon.
It is the Jackson race of V. petrosus.
This form is the result of the slow and even evolution of the ancestral race which took place in the favorable conditions of a more open sea.
Its ontogeny is normal, each stage following its predecessor in regular fashion.
Though this form is accelerated, there is little mingling of the senile and spiny characters by unequal acceleration.
The senile stage closes a welldeveloped spiny stage.
This race of V. petrosus differs but slightly from the form which we saw in the Nanafalia beds, and demonstrates clearly how little a stock may vary through a long period of time if it is living under favorable conditions.^The phylogeny of the Alabama and Mississippi species of Volutilithcs may be represented by the table on p. 74.
The Yellow Bluff race is provisionally placed in the Bell's Landing horizon.
Summary.
From the Matthew's Landing to the Hatchetigbee inclusive the strata belong to the so-called Lignitic formation.
They consist of thick deposits of cross-bedded sands and clays, often glauconitic, and of lignites alternating with thin beds of marine fossils."
It is evident that these deposits were formed in a great shallow arm of the sea, whose w^aters were sometimes fresh or blackish and at others salt.
The marine faunas which from time to time invaded this Lignitic gulf brought with them, at first, species and races of Volutilithes with normal aspect.
These, however, only represent the dwellers on the edge of the respective Volutilithes communities, the centres of which were farther out in the open sea.
These forms which were subjected to the conditions of the Lignitic eventually followed out a course of evolution which was a direct reflection of their unfavorable environment.
The races of Volutilithes petrosus at Bell's Landing, Wood's Bluff, and Hatchetigbee Bluff make such a series, in which the senility becomes more and more extreme with the course of time."
Occasionally throughout the later Lignitic, as at Yellow Bluff, we find a race which has migrated from a more favorable environment, and which resembles the primitive races of earlier Lignitic waters, as those of Gregg's Landing and Nanafalia.
The grade of phylogenetic development which the Yellow Bluff assemblage has attained also '^ The author has seen forms purporting to come from the Vicksburg horizon which appear to be poorly preserved examples of the Jackson race of V. petrosus.
He does not, however, feel justified (without further evidence) in carrying the range of V. petrosus above the Jackson horizon. "
Bull.
43, U. S. G. S., "Tertiary and Cretaceous Strata of the Tuscaloosa, Tombigbee, and Alabama Rivers," Eugene A. Smith and Lawrence C. Johnson.
^* It is to be noted in this connection that forms occur in the Miocene of Europe which appear to belong to Volutilithes and to possess the shelly overgrowth.
The abnormal American races are produced by local conditions, that is, by those of the Lignitic, and are widely separated not only geographically but geologically from the European specimens.
It is therefore highly improbable that the European forms (if they are Volutilithes at all) are descended from the American ones, In the absence of more definite information, we are justified in regarding the phenomenon as one of parallelism.
74 [March, ^ '^^ « a 02 fcfl bC'O 5j S^K 1^ G ^^ : SPi s 'Stl 9 t^ = W ^ ^ indicates that a normal, slow, and even evolution has been going on in one locality ; while at the same time rapid, senile evolution has taken place among forms subjected to unfavorable conditions in another region.
Where, then, was the centre of this normal phylogeny?
We may well look toward the open sea to find this favorable environment, and the deposits which follow the Hatchetigbee beds furnish us with the desired answer.
With the inauguration of the Lower Claiborne began that movement which finally resulted in the deepening of the sea and the production of the white limestone of the Jackson.
The brackish water conditions disappear and are replaced by those of a shallow water (but typically marine) environment.
The Claiborne race of Volutilithes petrosus shows the effect of such conditions upon the main stock.
The sinking of the sea-bottom proceeded throughout Claiborne time, and finally the Jackson limestone with its relatively deep water fauna is introduced.
The Jackson race of V. petrosus represents the result upon the main stock of slow and even evolution in a favorable environment.
It follows, then, that every stock has some particular set of conditions in which it develops normally.
Contemporaneously with this normal phylogeny a senile evolution in the same stock may occur at some less favored locality.
In the forms we have considered the environment most favorable to a slow and even evolution is an open sea one, in which limy deposits are forming.
It is only, then, in a thick limestone deposit that we could expect to find all the phylogenetic stages of the Volutilithes petrosus main stock and other primitive species.
In conclusion it is interesting to note that one of the only two existing species of the genus, namely, Volutilithes abyssicola Adams and Reeve,^^ is a cancellated form which apparently is quite close in its grade of evolutional development to the ancestral V. limopsis of remote Eocene time.
This recent species is found in relatively deep water off the Cape of Good Hope, and probably is a member of a primitive stock, which iri the favorable environment of a deep and open sea has been able to persist long after its nearest relatives have become extinct.^^ The writer wishes to express his indebtedness to Prof. Henry A. Pilsbry, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of iPhiladelphia, and to Prof. Amos P. Brown, of the University of Penns3dvania, for many ^^ Zoology of the Voyage of the Samarang.
i« See Dall, Trans.
Wag.
Inst., Vol.
Ill, p. 74. helpful suggestions, and to Miss Helen Winchester for care exercised in making the drawings.
In addition the writer wishes to especially acknowledge the kindness of Mr. Charles W. Johnson, of the Boston Society of Natural History, in giving him much valuable information in regard to the range and distribution of the races and species.
Explanation of Plate II.
Fig.
1.
— Volutilithes limopsis Conrad.
Matthew's Landing, Ala.
Adult of moderate size showing the persistence of the cancellated stage throughout the later whorls.
Length = 18.5 mm.
Fig.
2.
— Volutilithes rugatiis Conrad.
Matthew's Landing, Ala. Young individual showing the cancellated stage.
With the exception of the last whorl, the sculpture is very much like that of V. limopsis.
Length = 19.5 mm.
Fig.
3.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Bell's Landing Race.
Bell's Landing, Ala. Young individual showing the cancellated stage.
Length = 20 mm.
Fig.
4.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Jackson Race.
Jackson, Miss.
Young individual showing the cancellated stage.
Length^lQ mm.
Fig.
5.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Gregg's Landing Race.
Gregg's Landing, Ala.
Adult individual showing the general characters of the V. petrosus main stock.
The later whorls show the spiny stage.
Length = 50 mm.
Fig.
6.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Yellow Bluff Race.
Yellow Bluff, Ala.
Adult individual showing the general characters of the V. petrosus main stock.
This is, however, not as typical an expression of the features of the main stock as is seen in fig.
5.
The later whorls show the spiny stage.
Length = 44 mm.
Fig.
7.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Jackson Race.
Jackson, Miss.
Adult individual showing the general characters of the V. petrosus main stock.
The later whorls show the spiny stage.
This is the culminant type of the main stock.
Length = 52 mm.
Fig.
8.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Bell's Landing Race.
Bell's Landing, Ala.
Adult individual showing the slightly developed senile characters.
Length = .52 mm.
Fig.
9.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Wood's Bluff Race.
Wood's Bluff, Ala.
Adult individual showing strongly developed senile characters.
Length = 58 mm.
Fig.
10.
— Volutilithes petrosus Conrad.
Hatchetigbee Bluff Race.
Hatchetigbee Bluff, Ala.
Adult individual showing extreme senility and dwarfed size.
This is the culminant type of the senile offshoot shown in figs.
8 and 9.
Length = 43 mm.
