DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW POLYCHJSTA FROM ALASKA.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
Among a number of Alaskan Polychseta in the collections of this Academy the two of which the descriptions follow are new.
Syllis quaternaria sp.
nov.
This sexual freeswimming form of the type for which Malmgren instituted his genus Chcetosyllis is probably the epitokous form of a true Syllis but it cannot be correlated with any atokous form hitherto described.
The length varies from 7 to 9 mm.
 the width between the ends of the parapodia is .8 mm.
and between the tips of the capillary setsB 4.5 mm. or onehalf the length of the body.
Syllis quaternaria.
 a dorsal view of prostomium peristomium and first two somites bearing capillary setse X 24 6 parapodium from IX with setse cut off X 32  c a long and d a short notopodial seta from X X 600.
The prostomium a consists of a pair of prominent hemispherical lobes separated by a deep narrow median cleft and each again divided by a shallow transverse groove.
A pair of simple unjointed or obscurely wrinkled cylindrical tentacles arise from the latter grooves and incline decidedly toward the dorsum.
They reach a length of 1to 1J times the prostomium.
No other cephalic appendages exist but there are two pairs of dense black or deep brown short spindleshaped eyes each provided with a small cuticular lens.
The dorsal eyes are the more posterior and look vertically upwards  the large ventral pair look downwards forwards and outwards.
Sometimes 1 or 2 small rodlike bodies of pigment occur with the eyes.
The mouth is a minute opening situated at the very bottom of the vertical prostomial cleft near the ventral surface.
The peristomium a is but little modified and a segment just like the others except that the parapodia lack the capillary setae.
The sides of the body are nearly parallel almost to the caudal end where the last 12 to 15 of the total number of 40 to 43 segments taper to the pygidium.
Each segment is about  as long as wide or anteriorly rather more than this.
The small triangular pygidium bears a pair of large stout moniliform cirri of about 25 joints and in the males an additional short slender and un jointed median ventral cirrus.
Excepting the first pair the parapodia b are biramous and all but the first and the last few bear capillary setse in the notopodium.
The basal part is a rather large domeshaped structure from which the neuropodium projects rather prominently and ends in a short slightly curved dorsal acicular process while a postsetal lamina stepped at the ends for the rows of setae forms its more ventral portion.
Two or three straight aciculi support the neuropodium.
From the middle of the ventral surface of the foot arises a short slender tapered and unjointed ventral cirrus.
The notopodium is a very slight conical tubercle which receives the end of a single aciculum strongly curved at the tip and caps a large yellowish setigerous sac from which the capillary setae spring.
Well above and separated from this tubercle arises the dorsal cirrus which is always prominent and strongly moniliform.
With considerable regularity the dorsal cirri are alternately longer and shorter the even numbers being about equal to f of the width of the body exclusive of the parapodia and consisting of 20 to 25 joints whereas the odd numbers are about f as long as they and have only 14 to 16 joints.
As stated above all but the peristomium and the last 5 or 6 segments bear capillary notopodial setae which form dense and very conspicuous bundles.
They are perfectly smooth and simple in structure glasslike in appearance tapered to excessively fine but apparently flattened ends and are more or less curved and sometimes curled and twisted at the ends  the latter condition being probably the result of preservation.
Neuropodial setae are arranged in 5 or 6 horizontal subacicular rows.
They are relatively short and stout and perfectly colorless and vitreous.
The curved stems are deeply cupped and toothed along the more prolonged side.
The blades end in a single rather stout little hooked tooth and the dorsal or shorter side is provided with a moderately strong fringe best developed on the shorter blades which also exhibit an aggregation of some of the terminal hairs to simulate an accessory tooth.
On the ventral setae the blades seldom exceed a length of twice the diameter of the end of the shaft while those of the 3 or 4 setas in the dorsalmost row are narrower and 4 or 5 times as long as the distal end of the shaft.
Although all of the specimens examined are fully mature and have the body cavity filled with ova or sperm the alimentary canal is complete and well developed extending continuously from mouth to anus without exhibiting any of that occlusion or degeneration seen in many sexually mature syllids and other annelids.
The type and about a score of cotypes are No.
1091 of the Academy's collections.
Taken on the surface in a lead 4 miles from shore by Mr. E. A. Mcllhenny at Point Barrow Alaska.
Ammotrypane brevis sp.
nov.
The type of this species is a somewhat contracted specimen 15 mm.
long 1.5 mm.
broad and 1.9 mm.
high in the middle being therefore rather robust and tapering to both ends.
The general resemblance to A. aulogaster is close but if the differences exhibited by the single specimen prove to be constant the two species are readily separated.
Ammotrypane 6re's. Parapodium and gill from somite X X 56.
Instead of being laterally compressed the prostomium is blunt and flattened dorsoventrally.
From it a slight median ridge passes backward and gradually merges into the dorsal curvature of the back.
Below this ridge on each side are the small sensory pits or nuchal organs.
The mouth is a small trifid opening bounded by a pair of small anterior lobes and a single posterior lobe.
Although the body seems to be quite complete and exhibits no indications of regeneration there are only 29 setigerous somites not distinguishable from one another externally except through the presence of the parapodia.
No intersegmental furrows whatever are discernible and the segments pass continuously into one another.
Ventrally a pair of stout muscular bands separated by a deep median groove produce a somewhat solelike surface.
Above this the body is narrower and strongly arched and marked only by the small transverse muscle bundles apparently 4 to each segment.
If perfect as it appears to be the pygidium presents striking characteristics.
The large median spoonshaped lobe of A. aulogaster is absent and represented only by a minute slender process.
The lateral lobes are much larger obliquely truncated above and slightly indented at the end.
The parapodia arise from the dorsolateral surface of the lateral muscle bands and are about equally well developed throughout.
They form small but distinct bluntly rounded tubercles produced into a small conical prominence and apparently unsupported by an aciculum.
They bear only a small ventral cirrus and a prominent dorsal branchia the small dorsal cirrus which has been figured for some species being absent.
Branchise are absent from the first pair of parapodia but are present on all of the others.
They are largest on the middle segments where they exceed a millimeter in length and the parapodium in diameter.
They are slender and slightty tapering in form and provided along one side with a strongly developed longitudinal muscle rendering them very contractile.
The setae are all simple colorless tapering capillary bristles longitudinally fibrillated and soft in texture.
They are arranged in two fascicles a dorsal of 6 to 10 setse which reach f the length of the branchia from the base of which they arise and a ventral which arises from beneath the conical prolongation of the parapodium and contains 5 or 6 setae less than h as long as the dorsal bristles.
Along the sides of the body between the parapodia but nearest to the succeeding one are small black or dark brown and very conspicuous eye spots which are hemispherical in shape and indistinctly facetted on the surface.
The only specimen a female filled with eggs is No.
284 of the Academy's collection taken by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape Alaska on August 17 1895.
NOTE ON THE DUSKY SALAMANDER.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Near Port Allegany in McKean county and in the valleys of the headwaters of the Genesee Allegheny and Susquehanna in Potter county.
Pa. Mr. T. D. Keim and the writer spent a few days studying the fauna in the summers of 1904 and 1906.
Most of the hemlock forests have been cleared off except near Port Allegany where one still has but a short time left to study the animal life in its primeval conditions.
Perhaps the most abundant in individuals among coldblooded vertebrates was the little dusky salamander Desmognathus fusca.
It was found nearly everywhere in the valleys about and in streams and on the comparatively dry mountaintops though there less numerous and more solitary.
About the headwaters of the Genesee they were even more abundant so that we had the opportunity of examining multituds of living examples.
So abundant were they in some localities that as many as four or five would frequently occur under a single small stone.
Owing to the nature of the brooks about the Genesee headwaters which are very swift cold and sinking out of sight in some places to appear again in others very favorable habitats are secured in the comparatively damp intercovirses which are only flooded in times of heavy rains.
Very great range in colorpattern and colorvariation was noted in this species.
Young an inch long had the pale area on the back more or less immaculate pink or pale brown.
The uppermost of the accompanying figures Plate XIII indicates this type.
They varied from these shades into the duskyblack adults.
They did not always appear to change from pinkish to brown as some with pink backs were found equally as large as the larger brownish ones.
The pale colors of the back were not always immaculate many being variously blotched or speckled with darker or brownish.
Very dark or blackish examples not larger than the largest pink or brown ones also occurred though these all showed traces to some extent of the dorsal colorpattern.
Most all fullgrown examples lose every trace of the dorsal colorpattern in the blackish of the back.
A comparison of the types of Desmognathus ochrophcea Cope seems to leave it perfectly clear that it is nothing more than the intermediate brown colorvariety of D. fusca which I have represented in the two lower median accompanying figures.
The identity of D. ochrophcea with D. fusca however was fiist suggested by Mr. G. M. Allen in the Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
N. H. 29 1901 p. 73.
In view of the material examined I am now able to fully endorse Mr. Allen's view as final.
The characters pointed out by Cope in 1889 are certainly not of specific value as they range more or less through most of my material.
The habitat of the ochrophcea stage is not confined entirely to the mountaintops as the animals are found under damp stones about streams and in the valleys.
I do not agree with Cope's suggestion that Salamandra haldemani Holbrook is an unusually spotted Spelerpes hilineatus'' as the tail is somewhat short.
It agrees with some of my examples of D. fusca to some extent in the color of the belly which is usually more or less livid in life.
It had best be regarded as a synonym of D. fusca.
As small and mediumsized examples greatly resemble Plethodon erythronotus which is rather abundant in the dry forests a good character for distinguishing the two species at a glance will be found in the pale or whitish streak extending down from the eye behind.
This is present on most all examples and may frequently be traced to some extent in the blackish adults.
24 A CONTRIBUTION TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE ORTHOPTERA OF MONTANA YELLOWSTONE PARK UTAH AND COLORADO.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD.
During the month of August 1904 the junior author was occupied in collecting Orthoptera at a number of localities extending from eastern Montana to Salt Lake City and from that locality to eastcentral Colorado.
Collecting at some localities was limited to a few minutes search permitted by the stoppage of the train at other localities several days were spent and very extensive and interesting collections made.
The careful study of the Orthoptera of the Yellowstone Park and of Pike's Peak yielded some interesting and scarce species as well as two new forms and a considerable amount of information on the habitat and actions of a number of species.
The number of specimens in the collection studied is about 2800 and 121 species are represented.
Notes on the habits and other information has been given under most of the species by the collector and the chief localities visited have been briefly described to aid in a proper understanding of their conditions and environmental features as well as to aid future students in this region.
A considerable representation of the species treated in this paper has been placed in the Academy's collection by the junior author.
Montana.
Waco Yellowstone Co. elevation 2700 feet.
On the sagebrush plains just east of the foothills of the Rockies.
Grey Cliff Sweetgrass Co. elevation 3900 feet.
In a more rugged character of country than Waco but with a similar vegetation.
Orthoptera appeared to swarm as the specimens collected were taken in less than two minutes.
Billings Yelloivstone Co. elevation 3115 fet.
Specimens taken here were from the dusty main street of the town.
Livingston Park Co. elevation 4488 feet.
Material from this locality was taken among weeds growing in a vacant lot near the station.
Emigrant Daileys Sphinx and Electric Park Co. elevation 48005 1 00 feet.
Dming the brief stops made by the train between Livingston and Gardiner a httle collecting was possible.
These stations are situated in the valley of the Yellowstone river between the Snowy Jlountains and the Gallatin Range.
The vegetation is chiefly sagebrush and other plants which grow in a semiarid soil.
Orthoptera were very plentiful and had time allowed a great quantity could easily have been taken.
Muir Bozeman Tunnel Park Co. elevation 549G feet.
At this point a few minutes' stop afforded an opportunity to collect in the heavy growth of weeds and grasses along the track.
The vegetation was very luxuriant and wholly different from that found in the semiarid sections.
The Orthoptera of regions of this character was always much less abundant than in the sagebrush country.
Three Forks Willotv Creek and Sappington Gallatin Co. and Jefferson City and Whitehall Jefferson Co. elevation 40614529 feet.
During the brief stops made at these towns a few specimens were taken.
The soil was barren and Orthoptera was far less plentiful than in the more eastern portion of the State.
Spire Rock Jefferson Co. elevation 5217 feet.
Among the great boulders on the summit of the mountains near Butte a few specimens were seen and hardly any vegetation found.
This locality was by far the most desolate of any at which collecting was done.
Yellowstone Park.
Mammoth Hot Springs elevation 62157000 feet.
At Fort Yellowstone where the Mammoth Hot Springs are situated a great variety of collecting grounds are within easy reach.
About the fort itself among the weeds and grasses Orthoptera were not very plentiful  but immediately behind the hotel in the dense sagebrush growing on the sides of the foothills vast quantities of Orthoptera of many species were to be found.
Collecting here was somewhat difficult owing to the steep hillside and the agility of the majority of the species as well as the difficulty of following more interesting specimens on account of the quantities of more common species which everywhere swarmed.
At a greater elevation on the sides of these hills the sagebrush gave place somewhat to grasses and other low growing plants where Orthoptera were less prevalent but more desirable.
On the summits however the ground was pebbly and overgrown with sparse and stunted grasses in which situations many most desirable species were abundant and could be easily taken in the scanty vegetation.
In one grass hollow near the top of the foothills among scattered bushes near a thicket of aspen I found species which did not seem present in the surrounding sections among which were Hippiscus maculatus Circotettix rabula Bradynotes ohesa and Mdanoplus alpinus.
At the head of the hot springs I found a plot of marsh grass among the stunted pines which revealed several species of crickets and other Orthopterous insects not found in the surrounding country.
On the summits of the higher foothills nearby an even greater variety of the more interesting forms were found.
Apollinaris Spring elevation 7250 feet.
iMaterial collected here was from dense pine woods.
Fountain Lower Geyser Basin elevation 7230 feet.
Very few specimens could be found here the pine woods nearby revealing nothing whatever while but very few individuals were taken on the geyser formation and in the short grass near the hotel.
This was the most unfavorable locality found in the Park.
Old Faithftd Inn Upper Geyser Basin elevation 7830 feet.
Here two distinct collecting localities were accessible in which few though interesting forms were found.
Between Old Faithful geyser and the Firehole river a space of short grass contained numerous Arphia pseudonietana while on the surrounding geyser formations the same species could be found in very small numbers.
Back of the Inn among the short but thicklygrowing pines several species of Melanoplus M. hruneri and fasciatus were found which were not met with elsewhere in the Park.
Unlike most of the Yellowstone localities long and diligent search was required to secure each specimen.
Norris Pass Continental Divide elevation 82408320 feet.
About the Norris Pass the vegetation was scanty owing to the elevation.
In the more open spaces a short grass grew plentifully and several species of Orthoptera could have been taken in numbers had time permitted.
The Thumb Yellowstone Lake.
About The Thumb on the shore of Yellowstone Lake the vegetation was heavy but owing to the few cleared spaces but few Orthoptera were found.
Exit of the Yellowstone River elevation 7742 feet.
At this point above the high abrupt bank on the left side is a large treeless expanse covered by high plants and shrubs.
In this location all forms of insect life were very plentiful and many varieties of boreal Lepidoptera were noticed.
The Orthoptera of this section differed materially from that found in the more arid geyser regions.
Mud Volcano elevation 7740 feet.
CoUecting here was done on sandy soil.
Near Grand Canon elevation 8000 feet.
The country about the Grand Canon much resembled that about Yellowstone Lake but Orthoptera were less abundant.
As in other parts of the Park very few specimens could be found in the woods Utah.
Vicinity of Salt Lake City Salt Lake Co. elevation 42306000 feet.
About Salt Lake City I found the vicinity of Eixsign Peak top 6000 feet elevation by far the most productive collecting groimd.
There the soil was dry and gravelly but covered with a somewhat sturdy growth of sagebrush and other desert plants.
In this place Orthoptera swarmed and great difficulty was experienced in following scarce specimens among the legions of less desirable ones.
About the foot of the hill was the most productive situations but great numbers were found both on the hillside and at the top.
In a dry field of cut alfalfa some miles south of the city elevation 4230 feet collecting was profitable among the stubble although both there and in the surrounding countiy far fewer species were to be found than was expected and nothing of the variety found in the more barren region about Ensign Peak.
Colorado.
Grand Junction Mesa Co. elevation 4573 feet.
In the dry sandy country at this locality quite good collecting was found though recent freshets had washed over much of the groimd and the only vegetation in most places consisted of tall scraggy bushes.
Antlers Garfield Co. elevation 5310 feet.
An area of cactus and sage at this locality proved very productive in the few minutes spent there.
Debeque Iesa Co. elevation 4935 feet and Newcastle Garfield Co. elevation 5552 feet.
Both localities in the rather arid canon of the Grand River.
Vicinity of Colorado Springs El Paso Co. To the east of the city in the prairie elevation about 6000 feet Orthoptera w'ere present in countless numbers.
The true prairiegrass land revealed many species while the more luxuriant grass about a small stagnant pond produced other species.
This locality while somewhat dry was nothing like the parched sagebrush plains in which collecting was done at other places.
Austin Bluffs elevation 6960 feet rise abruptlj from the prairie land many dry shrubs growing upon them plentifully interspersed with scrub pines.
Vicinity of Manitou El Paso Co.
The mesa elevation 6400 feet at this locality was somewhat like the prairie at Colorado Springs but not nearly as productive.
On the hillside near the Pike's Peak railroad station elevation 6700 feet Orthoptera were plentiful among the high grasses and scrub oak thickets.
The Garden of the Gods elevation 6300 feet proved everywhere unproductive except a small field of tall grass near the Manitou streetcar line.
Many species were to be found here in numbers.
Pike's Peak.
The' summit of Pike's Peak elevation 14147 feet is a mass of huge boulders with no apparent vegetation.
The region about Windy Point 1200012300 feet is treeless and very steep.
A short but sturdy grass grows everywhere that the quantity of huge jagged rocks permit and in this grass a few species of Orthoptera such as Gomphocerus clavatus Melanoplus altitudinum fasciatus and monticola were quite plentiful.
Along the timberline 11578 feet in the stunted vegetation Orthoptera were somewhat more varied but not as interesting as those at Windy Point.
At Middle Hudsonian elevation 10500 feet and above the pump station elevation 10100 feet the forest of quaking aspen was exceedingly unproductive and very few specimens were seen.
In Dark Canon elevation 89009000 feet in spite of an abundance of grass few Orthoptera could be found although other forms of insect life were plentiful.
On the densely wooded upper slope of Dark Canon work was attended with less success than in the burnedover forest.
Cripple Creek Teller Co. elevation 9591 feet.
The few specimens taken at Cripple Creek were from the tailings about the mines.
Fort Morgan Morgan Co. elevation 4338 feet.
A rank growth of weeds along the railroad track at this place swarmed with Orthoptera and in a few minutes a number of interesting forms were taken.
MANTID.
LITANEUTRIA Saussure.
Litaneutria minor Scudder.
Antlers Colorado Aug. 15 1 immature  .
This specimen is referred to this species with some uncertainty as it may represent L. horealis Bruner which however is of doubtful validity. This individual was taken on dry soil among dense beds of cactus and sage.
1 Vide Caudell Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXVIII pp.
463 464.
AORIDID.
ACRYDIUM Geoffrey.
Acrydium granulatum Kirby.
Hill at head of springs Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 2 immature specimens.
Careful search revealed no mature specimens.
Acrydium crassum Morse.
Manitou Colorado 6324 feet Aug. 16 3 d' 8 
 6700 feet Aug. 23' 1 c 1 9.
This species has previously been recorded from localities in northern and northcentral Colorado Fort Collins Laporte Steamboat Springs Poudre river Platte Canyon and Denver.
This species was found among the mountainloving plants in the immediate vicinity of scrub oak bushes.
It appeared to be extremelj local for I found it in but one small area where however it was common.
ACRIDINiE.
SYRBULA Stai.
Syrbula admirabilis Uhler.
St. Louis Missouri Aug. 27 18 d' 12 9 .
These specimens are inseparable from New Jersey individuals.
A common species in the tall weeds of a vacant lot in the city.
ACROLOPHITUS Thomas.
Acrolopliitus hirtipes Say.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park 6215 and 6500 feet Aug. 5 2 d Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 4 d 9 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 17227 J 13 9.
This series exhibits a great range of color variation extending from the typical blotched form to the uniform one tentatively named unijormis by Bruner. The latter does not appear worthy of recognition as the extremes and intermediates are present in both the larger series examined.
This species was quite scarce on the hillsides about the iMammoth Hot Springs being found among sage and mountain plants.
On the prairie outside of Colorado Springs the species was extremely plentiful and  Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II p. 47.
364 Sept. easily capkired.
The insect is not swift of flight and often relies on its strongly protective coloration to escape detection.
' Fig.
1.
 Akentetus unicolor McNeill.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado.
Lateral view of male.
X 5.
AKENTETUS McNeill.
Akentetus unicolor McNeill.
Mannnoth Hot Springs Fig.
2.
 Akentetus unicolor McNeill.
Knob HiU Colorado Springs Colorado.
Dorsal aew of head and pronotum of male.
X 5.
Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 2 .
Akron Washington Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 6.
This scarce species previously recorded only from the type locality Colorado and Lakin Kansas is also represented in the Academy collection by a male from Nebraska and a female from Livermore Larimer Co. Colorado the latter taken July 23 1899.
The pattern of coloration is very similar to that of Amphitornus but the longitudinal bars are narrower.
In the Akron and Mammoth Hot Springs specimens the postocular regions are distinctly infuscate.
The bars on the caudal femora are distinct in all the specimens examined.
The four specimens of this species taken were captured in three decidedly different locations.
At Mammoth Hot Springs one was taken on the hillside among sagebrush.
At Ivnob Hill two were captured on the prairie while at Akron it was taken in a dry situation near the railroad.
AMPHITORNUS McNeill.
Amphitornus coloradus Thomas.
1872.
Stenobothrus bicolor Thomas Prelim.
Rep. U. S. Geol.
Sur.
INIontana p. 465.3 1873.
Stenobothrus coloradus Thomas SjTiopsis Acrid.
N.
Amer. p. 82.
Iammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 4 91 nymph.
Summit of foothills near Mammoth Hot Springs 6500 feet Aug. 5 3 9 .
Hill at head of Mammoth Hot Springs 7000 feel Aug. 5 1 9 .
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 1 9 .
Hill near Salt Lake City 4700 feet Aug. 13 and 14 3 cJ 2 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 1722 4 c 1 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 9 .
The series examined contains both the typical form and the suffused form called Var.
a by Thomas.
This is apparently the first record of the species from Utah.
This species was found in Wyoming Utah and Colorado in almost the same numbers.
Each specimen seen was captured if that was in any way possible.
The insect was found among the sage on hillsides and also among the grasses of the prairie.
OPEIA McNeill.
Opeia obscura Thomas.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 1 9 .
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 65 d' 62 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 2 c 2 9.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 19 1 .
Specimens of this species were received from Prof. C. P. Gillette from Merino Lamar Snyder and Fort Collins Colorado labelled Eritettix variahilis with a query.
The Salt Lake City specimen is apparently the first recorded west of the Rockies.
About Colorado Springs on the prairie this species was to be found in countless numbers.
The males are very rapid in their movements but so common were they that sometimes over a dozen would be taken with one sweep of the net.
CORDILLACRIS Rehn.
Cordillacris occipitalis Thomas.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado 3 Invalidated by Stenobothnis bicolor Charpentier  the combination dating from SelysLongciiamps 1868 Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
Belg. XI p. 31.
Springs Aug. 1822 1 6 2 9.
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Aug. 18 8 c 6 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 d.
This was an extremely scarce species on the grassy prairie but among the low plants growing in a forest of dwarf pines on Austin Bluffs it was quite common.
The insects spring about rapidly and are also able to fly well.
Cordillacris cinerea Bruner.
Sphinx Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 d.
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 2 9 .
This form appears to be hardly separable from the preceding.
The male captured was taken in the sagebrush.
So rapidly did it jump about that several minutes were occupied in making the capture as I had no net at the time.
Cordillacris crenulata Bruner.
Antlers Garfield Co. Colorado Aug. 15 2 9 .
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 8 J 10 9 .
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 9 .
Garden of the Gods Aug. 17 and 19 1 d' 3 9 .
This species was quite plentiful in the grass of the prairie outside Colorado Springs.
It was also taken among cactus and sage in a damp grassy meadow and among the low scattered plants growing in a forest of dwarf pines.
PHLIBOSTROMA Scudder.
Phlibostroma quadrimaculatum Thomas.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 2 d 2 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 566 39 9 .
Manitou Colorado Aug. 23 1 9 .
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 1723 8 d 5 9 .
Akron Washington Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 c 1 9 .
One of the extremely plentiful species found in the prairie.
Hundreds could have been taken in a short time.
 Quite a diversity of coloration occurred in the specimens for among those taken were both brown and greenmarked individuals.
The females were generally of the green form while the males were more of the wholly brown type.
OEPHULELLA GiglioTos.
Orphulella pelidna Burmeister.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 5 d 5 9. .
The separation of 0. pratorum from this form is a task apparently hopeless.
For the present at least we prefer to call these pelidna as pratorum as understood by us on the basis of material from the southeastern States and New Jersey appears to be slenderer with longer wings.
However these differential characters are only averages numerous specimens which cannot otherwise be separated from the usual pratorum type being intermediate in proportions.
The species was found in short marshy grass growing about a shallow pond in the prairie.
Considerable search was required to find the ten specimens captured.
Orphulella salina Scudder.
Grand Junction Colorado Aug. 15 1 6.
This species has previously been recorded from Grand Junction and Montrose Colorado by Caudell and Grand Junction and Delta by Gillette. This specimen was taken in short grass near the Grand river in a locality which had been recently inundated.
No other specimens of Orthoptera were seen about this location.
DICHROMORPHA Morse.
Dichromorpha viridis Scudder.
Table Rock Pawnee Co. Nebraska Aug. 25 1 c 1 9 .
St. Louis Missouri Aug. 27 2 9 .
In both localities plentiful among thick grass and weeds.
CHLOiiALTIS Harris.
Chloealtis abdominalis Thomas.
Summit of foothill of Gallatin Range Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park 7000 feet Aug. 5 4 d 7 9 .
Manitou Colorado 63006900 feet Aug. 23 7 d 4 9 .
The male individuals are inseparable from a specimen of the same sex from Pequaming Michigan while the females are similar to individuals of that sex from Manitoba and Truchas Peak New IMexico.
The Truchas Peak specimen is slightly smaller with rather slenderer caudal limbs.
This species was doubtfully recorded from Colorado by Cockerell  as taken at Willow Creek Cusack Ranch Custer County in September.
At Mammoth Hot Springs I found this species in a small glade at the top of the foothills.
Here in the thick grass growing about a clump of aspen the series listed above was taken with little difficulty.
The males of this species are ery quick and wary but the females are  Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXVI p. 782.
5 Bull.
94 Colo. Agr.
Exp.
Sta. p. 26.
 Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc XX p. 337.
368 Sept. extremely heavy and slow and appear to rely a great deal on their protective resemblance to a bit of twig.
The stridulation of the j Fig.
3.
 ChloeaUis ahdominalis Thomas.
Manitou Colorado.
Lateral Adew of male.
X 4.
 'i.
r Fig.
4.
 CMoeaUis ahdominalis Thomas.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park.
Lateral view of female.
X 3.
males much resembles that of C. conspersa but is not nearly so loud.
At Manitou I found this species in about the same numbers among the scrub oaks and mountainloving plants of a steep hillside.
The 1906.1 369 species appeared to be very local in habitat and if a colony of the insect is not found long search for the species would very probably be useless STATJKODERUS Bolivar. Stauroderus curtipennis Harris.
Muir Bozeman Tunnel ParkGallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 9 .
Sappington Gallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 d.
Hill at head of Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 2 cJ 1 
.
Fountain Lower Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 6 1 6.
Near Grand Canon Yellowstone Park 8000 feet Aug. 10 2 c 2 
.
Yellowstone Lake Aug. 8 5 d' 4 9  Emerald Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 2 c  2 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 17 1 9 .
Manitou Colorado Aug. 16 and 23 5 cJ5 9.These specimens vary considerably in size and somewhat in structure but such variation is paralleled in Eastern specimens from which they cannot be separated.
This species was rather boreal in distribution and was found in numbers in tall marshy grass in a large open pasture on the shore of Yellowstone Lake.
It was also found plentiful at Manitou Colorado in the same locality as Chloealtis ahdominalis.
At Muir Mammoth Hot Springs and Manitou the species was found in dry locations all the other localities in which it was found being more or less damp.
The stridulations of the males resemble siksiksiksik swiftly repeated the sound being neither loud nor sharp.
Fig.
5.
 Chloealtis ahdominalis Thomas.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum of female.
X3.
PLATYBOTHRUS Scudder.
Platybothrus brunneus Thomas.
Lammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 2 d.
Suimnit of foothills near Mammoth Hot Springs.
Aug. 5 4 d 4 9 .
Sunmiit of foothill of Gallatin Range Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 1 d 5 9 . '
This generic name Catal.
Sinopt.
Ortopf.
Fauna Iberica pp.
46 57 1898 should be used in this connection in place of Stenobothrus if we recognize Bolivar's diisions as genera as has been done by Burr Entom.
Record and Journ.
Variat. XVI p. 320 .
If these groups are recognized as of only subgeneric rank Fieber's Chorthippus must be used as the generic term in place of Stenobothrus as has already been done in several previous papers by the senior author.
On geyser formation Iammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 1 9 .
Top of bare hill opposite Devil's Kitchen Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 1 9 .
Meadows near Norris Pass Continental Divide Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 9 .
Near Grand Caiion Yellowstone Park Aug. 10 2 c.
These specimens have the caudal tibiae with pale proximal annuli followed by dull glaucous and with the distal third reddish.
This species is distinctly boreal and apparently uncommon in collections the only definite records being from Fort McLeod southern Alberta several localities in Idaho Fort McKinney.
Wyoming and Estes Park Colorado.
Individuals from all except the Idaho localities have been examined.
The specimens taken were all found among the more boreal forms of vegetation in the Park.
Nowhere was it possible to take a large series of specimens in spite of the fact that when found individuals were easily captured.
The insects move about quite hurriedlj on the ground and when disturbed can also use their wings advantageously.
GOMPHOCERTJS Thunberg.
Gomphocerus clavatus Thomas.
lammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 56 9 .
Summit of foothill of Gallatin Range Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 1 9 .
Manitou Colorado 68007000 feet Aug. 23 2 d' 5 9.
Pike's Peak 10200 feet Aug. 20 1 9  Dark Canon 89209000 feet Aug. 16 8 c
 4 9  above Windy Point 12300 feet Aug. 20 16 d'  8 9  6 nymphs  below Windy Point 12000 feet Aug. 20 6 c
 along timber line 11578 feet Aug. 20 1 d'  Mountain View 9700 feet Aug. 20 2 c 5 9 .
With this series of nearly seventy specimens and twenty others in the collection of the Academy we are unable to find any constant character or characters to separate the three socalled American species of this genus.
We have attempted to apply the characters given by Bruner to distinguish them but the Windy Point series exhibits enough variation to prove the futility of attempting to recognize several species.
The length of the antennje and the angulation of the fastigium vary to a great extent and the inflation of the cephalic tibiae of the males apparently is as variable as in the European species of the genus.
I found this species by no means abundant about the Mammoth Hot Springs but took it in both the highest and lowest locations.
On ' Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II pp.
92 93.
3 the hillside above Manitou Colorado I found the species in about the same numbers as at the Hot Springs.
From Dark Canon to the highest grassy locations on Pike's Peak however the species was common in all favorable locations.
The insects were found most common in all open grassy spots especially above the timberline where short grasses grow everywhere between the scattered boulders.
The males are very active and are constantly stridulating  siksiksiksik  a sound louder but similar to that produced by Stauroderus curtipennis.
The females are slow and clumsy in their movements appearing quite different from the males.
PSOLOESSA Scudder.
Psoloessa maculipennis Scudder.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 1 9 .
This specimen is somewhat smaller than Kansas and New Mexican individuals of the species.
The previous Colorado record of this species was simply Southern Colorado.
While sweeping the prairie grass a single specimen of this species was taken from among the hundreds of more common species.
So great was the number of common Orthoptera in this locality that it was impossible to search for the scarcer individuals but this species was not met with again even though much sweeping was done in the same vicinity.
AGENEOTETTIX McNeill.
Ageneotettix deorum Scudder.
Livingston Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 c.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 1314 9 d 6 
.
Grand Junction Colorado Aug. 15 1 c
.
Antlers Colorado Aug. 15 3 cJ' 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 1722 73 c 87 9.
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Aug. 18 2 9.
Manitou Colorado Aug. 16 3 d 2 9.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 and 19 3 c 3 9 .
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 9 .
Aki'on Washington Co. Colorado Aug. 24 With this extensive series before me I am unable to separate Bruner's scudder i and occidentalis.
The characters given by him in his key of the species of this genus  do not appear to be constant as specimens from the type locality Garden of the Gods cannot be separated from others from the supposed range of occidentalis Salt Lake City Grand Junction and Antlers while a sufficient series from any one locality  Bull 94 Colo. Agr.
Exp.
Sta. p. 58 1904. contains individuals with the characters supposed to be diagnostic of any of the three forms and numerous others which cannot be placed in one or the other of the three ''species.
This was one of the most plentiful species encountered.
It was found in many of the arid locaUties but on the prairie it truly swarmed.
Each sweep of the net would take a dozen or more specimens in this location and so great were its numbers that other scarcer specimens even when seen would often easily escape in the myriads of this species.
AULOCAfiA Scudder.
Aulocara elliotti Thomas.
Gray Cliff Sweet Grass Co. Montana Aug. 4 2 d 4 9 .
Livingston Park Co. Montana Aug 4 1 9 .
Electric Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 
.
Summit of foothills near Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 5 c 6 
.
Top of Ensign Peak Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 and 22 3 c3 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 3 
.
Garden of the Gods Aug. 17 19 and 23 11 d 4 
.
The largest series of this species was taken in a meadow of tall grasses and weeds at the western entrance of the Garden of the Gods.
It was also taken on the prairie at Colorado Springs in dry grass and sage at Gray Cliff and in the other localities in hilly sagebrush locations.
Aulocara femoratum Scudder.
Gray Cliff Sweet Grass Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 cd.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 19 and 23 3 9 .
As stated by Gillette  the females of this species are very similar to the same sex of elliotti and rather difficult to distinguish.
The slenderer caudal femora of femoratum are probably one of the best differential characters.
The Montana record is the most northerly for the species.
The specimen taken in Montana was captmed among the dried grasses in prairie land.
Had I had more time in this locality I think more specimens could possibly have been taken.
In the Garden of the Gods the species was scarce the only individuals taken being captured in the grass near the western entrance.
Aulocara parallelum Scudder.
Hillside at Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 2 d 2 9.
Top of Ensign Peak Salt Lake City Aug. 13 1 d 1 9 .
Antlers Colorado Aug. 15 2 d.
1 Bull.
94 Colo. Agr.
Exp.
Sta. p. 30 1904.
1906.
373 The color of the caudal tibiae which were missing in the types is similar to that of A. elliotti with the pale proximal annuli more disFig.
6.
 Aulocara parallelum Scudder.
Salt Lake City Utah female.
X 3.
Lateral view of tinct in the females than in the males.
The blackish postocular stripe mentioned by Scudder appears to be a variable character and is absent in some specimens and distinct in others.
The Antlers specimens are the first recorded outside of Salt Lake Valley.
This species was scarce in both localities in which it was taken.
I found it on dry soil overgrown with sage and owing to the activity of the individuals not many of even the few seen were taken.
The caudal limbs of this species are so loosely attached that they snap off at the least strain and perfect specimens were consequently difficult to seciu'e.
EDIPODIN.E.
ARPHIA Stl.
Arphia pseudonietana Thomas.
Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 3 6 1 9.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 1 6.
Hillside at Salt Lake City Aug. 14 1 d 1 9 .
Prairie Fig.
7.
 Aulocara parallelum Scudder.
Salt Lake City.
Utah.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum of female.
X 3.
land Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 1 d 1 
.
Akron Colorado Aug. 24 1 c.
This series presents the variation in the intensity of the overlying blotches of dark brown usual in the species and which in specimens of a light base color produces a strongly maculate type.
The specimens from Upper Geyser Basin all have the sutural margin of the tegmina distinctly and broadly marked with pinkish ochraceous.
In the Upper Geyser Basin this species was to be found in small numbers in the small grassy spots between the geyser formations and the Firehole river.
In the other localities the species was scarce.
Its flight is very vigorous and accompanied by a loud clattering.
Arphia arcta Scudder.
Hill at head of Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 o.
This specimen has the wings orange red.
The individual collected was the only representative of the species seen.
CHORTOPHAGA Saussure.
Chortophaga viridifasciata De Geer.
St. Louis Missouri Aug. 27 1  .
ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudder.
Encoptolophus coloradensis Bruner.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 1 d.
The recognition of this distinct species was quite a surprise.
Its closest ally is E. sordidus from which it is separated by numerous Fig.
8. Encoptolophus coloradensis Bruner.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado.
Lateral view of male.
X 3 characters.
The only published record is the original description the type being from Fort Collins Colorado.
This specimen was beaten from the rank growth of weeds about a small waterfilled depression in the prairie.
Owing to the immense number of common species in this place no other specimens of this species was noticed and much beating in the same locality failed to secme additional specimens CAMNULA stai.
Camnula pellucida Scudder.
Waco Montana Aug. 4 3 d 2 
.
Emigrant Montana Aug. 4 1 9  Daileys lontana Aug. 4 1 9 .
Sphinx Montana Aug. 4 1 9 .
Electric Montana Aug. 4 1 9 .
Iuir Bozeman Tunnel Montana Aug. 12 1 c2 9 .
Sappington Montana Aug. 12 1 d.
Spire Rock Montana Aug. 12 1 cJ.
Mammoth Fig.
9.EncopHot Springs Yellowstone Park  hill at head of springs SS BruAug. 5 1 9  on geyser formation at the upper end of ner.
Knob springs Aug. 5 1 c.
Fountain Lower Geyser Basin J
'l' Colorado Yellowstone Park Aug. 6 1 d.
Upper Geyser Basin orado'
Dorsal Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 1 d.
The Thumb Yel' of Ifd ' andpronotum lowstone Park Aug. 7 1 9 .
Near Grand Canon of male x 3.
Yellowstone Park Aug. 10 1 9 .
Yellowstone Lake Aug. 7 1 9 .
Upper slope of Dark Caiion Pike's Peak Colorado Aug. 16 4 d 1 91 nymph.
The specimens from Waco are very interesting as they are exceedingly pale in color some appearing rather uniform dull straw color with the maculations much reduced and quite feeble others have the maculations distinct but the lighter shades all the same color as in the other pale individuals.
The specimen from geyser formation at Mammoth Hot Springs is coated with the mineral deposit.
This species was one of the most plentiful of those found in Montana.
At Waco the insects fairly swarmed in the dry prairie grass and sage.
In this locality the specimens were extremely pale in coloration exactly the color of the plants on which they were found.
I have never seen greater swarms of insects than those of C. pellucida in the sage at the foot of the hills at Mammoth Hot Springs.
The species was everywhere in Montana far more plentiful in the low dry locations but in Colorado I found it only at a considerable elevation in Dark Canon Pike's Peak.
One specimen was found in the Mammoth Hot Springs completely coated by the white formation.
In another spring quite a few specimens of this and other species were found dead killed probably by the fumes.
HIPPISCUS Saussure.
Hippiscus rugosus Scudder.
St. Louis Missouri Aug. 27 1 
.
A single specimen of this species was seen and taken in a vacant city lot overgrown with weeds.
Hippiscus conspicuus Scudder.
Colorado Springs Aug. 17 1 9 .
But one specimen of this species was seen.
Hippiscus maculatus Scudder.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park summit of neighboring foothills.
Aug. 5 1 9  summit of foothills of Gallatin Range Aug. 5 1 9.
A little doubt is attached to the identification of these specimens.
This species was scarce but other specimens could have been taken had not the country been so hilly.
Specimens would rise from the sagebrush hillside and fly some distance much more swiftly than one could follow.
Hippiscus altivolus Scudder.
Near Mountain View Pike's Peak Colorado 10100 feet Aug. 20 1 d .
This is apparently the first additional record of the species since the Fig.
10. Hippiscus altivolus Scudder.
Pike's Peak Colorado.
Lateral iew of male.
X 3.
original description Mt.
Lincoln Colorado above timber 1100013000 feet above sealevel Como Colorado 9500 feet.
This specimen was found on the cogwheel railroad track in a spot where on each side almost the only vegetation was a dense thicket of aspen.
The insect's flight was erratic and exceedingly swift.
Hippiscus neglectus Thomas.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 3 9  summit of neighboring foothills Aug. 5 2 6 4 9  summit of foothills of Gallatin Range Aug. 5 3 9  hill at head of springs Aug. 5 1 6  top of bare hill opposite Devil's Kitchen Aug. 5 1 d 3 9 .
Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 1 9 .
The Thumb Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 1 d.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs 7000 feet Aug. 17 1 9 .
This species varies considerably in size and greatly in the intensity of the color pattern and the sutural stripe.
Individuals from Camas Prairie Idaho have been used for comparison.
About the Mammoth Hot Springs this species was the most plentiful of the larger Orthoptera.
It preferred the hillsides to other locations and owing to its somewhat lighter form than other species of the genus found in that locality it proved swift of flight and not always easy to capture.
The single specimen taken at The Thumb was found in a small grassy space in the woods.
Only one specimen was seen on the grassy prairie at Knob Hill Colorado Springs LEPRUS Saussure.
Leprus interior Bruner.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 1 9 .
Hillside at Salt Lake City Aug. 13 and 14 4 d 7 9.
These individuals agree well with a pair received from Prof. Bruner labelled Salt Lake City and as a series are smaller and more conspicuously colored than a pair of L. cyaneus from Nephista Colorado.
The latter have the dark bars on the tegmina subobsolete the light sutural stripes and a transverse median light bar being the only distinct markings.In the Salt Lake specimens the bars are distinct and rather regular comparatively little variation being exhibited.
Several of the latter specimens have the blue of the caudal tibiae weaker than in the other individuals.
This series was only taken after long and careful search.
There was but one place on the steepest portion of Ensign Peak where the insect could be found and although the females were easily captured when found the males flew vigorously.
So steep was the hillside that it was bare of everything but scattered grasses and an occasional sagebush.
When at rest the insects were wonderfully protected by their coloration.
DISSOSTEIRA Scudder.
Dissosteira Carolina Linnaeus.
Billings Yellowstone Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 6 1 9.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 and 14 2 
.
Grand Junction Colorado Aug. 15 1 d 1 .
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 3 d 2 9.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 6 d 1 9 .
Fort Morgan Morgan Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 9 .
Ever3where common in dusty locations Dissosteira longipennis Thomas.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 and 18 2 c 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 17 and 18 4 d 1 9 .
Specimens have also been examined from Denver Pueblo Fort Morgan and La Junta Colorado and Sidne Nebraska.
A somewhat scarce species and one of the wariest insects collected .
I found the specimens on the prairie and would sometimes be obliged to follow one several hundred yards before an opportunity was offered to capture it.
The flight of this insect is swift and high and often of considerable length.
Dissosteira spuroata Saussure.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 and 14 13 c 5 9 .
This series exhibits a great amount of variation in the intensity of the color pattern some individuals being very dull almost uniform while others have a strikingly contrasted pattern.
As previously remarked by Saussure this species bears a considerable superficial resemblance to Spharagemon venustum.
These specimens were all taken in a field of alfalfa stubble.
Although in this locality the species was abundant specimens were not taken with ease owing to their extreme wariness and their sudden zigzag flight.
Their coloration was of great protective value as when at rest it was almost impossible to distinguish them from the dried alfalfa.
SPHARAGEMON Scudder.
Spharagemon aequale Say.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 and 18 3 d 3 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 d 1 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 d' 4 9 .
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 2 d' 3 9 .
Hillside at Salt Lake City Aug. 14 1 9 .
One specimen onljis collared a female from the prairie at Colorado Springs.
This species was moderately abundant on the grassy plain near Colorado Springs and was easily captured as it was by no means as active as other species of the genus.
Spharagemon bolli Scudder.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado 7000 feet Aug. 17 2 'd.
Manitou Colorado 69007000 feet Aug. 23 5 d 3 
.
These specimens are not separable from New Jersej specimens of the species.
Very few specimens of this species were found on the prairie but it was quite common on a path leading through pine woods on the hills above Manitou.
Spharagemon coUare Scudder.
Billings Yellowstone Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 c.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 and 18 2 d 4 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 14 c 37 9 .
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 d.
The specimen from Billings is assigned here with some doubt.
One of the most plentiful of the large species found on the prairie.
Spharagemon collate angustipenne Morse.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 2 9 .
The two individuals recorded here were taken in the stubble field in which Dissosteira spurcata was abundant.
This form appeared to be quite scarce.
DEROTMEMA Scudder.
Derotmema cupidineum Scudder.
liitehall Jefferson Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 c.
Grand Junction Mesa Co.  Colorado Aug. 15 4 d  3 9 .
Antlers Garfield Co.  Colorado  Aug. 15 9 d 3 9.
These specimens are slightly larger than the original measurements given by Scudder but otherwise fit the description quite well.
The species appears to be readily separable from D. haydeni by the slightly longer and distinctly slenderer caudal femora.
The pectinate character of the metazonal rugosities is not characteristic of haydeni as each of the above series contains specimens in that respect not differing from haydeni but the femora show them to be cupidineum.
The Grand Junction specimens as a series are more suffused than the Antlers individuals.
The previous Colorado records of this species are from Aliite river near the Utah boundary Montrose Grand Junction and Palisades.
The specimens taken at Grand Junction were captured on the recently inundated silt along the bank of the Grand river where numerous specimens were seen.
Those from Antlers were captured on the dry cactus and sage plain.
Berotmema haydenii Thomas.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 8 cJ 7 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 3 c 4 91 immature individual.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 8 c 8 9 .
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 and 23 4 cJ 3 9.
Fort Morgan Morgan Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 d 1 9.
Both red and yellow winged forms are represented in this series.
One of the common prairie species which I often found in large numbers about damp depressions in the prairie and on the sandyborders of several shallow ponds.
MESTOBKEGMA Scudder.
Mestobregma plattei Thomas.
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 2 9 .
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 23 1 9 .
But three specimens of this species were seen although much time was spent searching for additional specimens.
The insects were found around stunted pines and bushes growing on clifflike outcroppings in both localities.
One specimen had just emerged.
The flight of this species is low but swift.
Mestobregma kiowa Thomas.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park top of bare hill opposite Devil's Etchen Aug. 5 1 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 2 d 3 9 .
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 41 c 40 9 .
Manitou Colorado Aug. 16 and 23 3 d.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 15 d 11 9 .
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 9 .
This large series exhibits the usual amount of variation in maculations seen in this species chiefly in the intensity of those on the head and pronotmn and in the line between the discoidal and anal areas of the tegmina.
One female from Knob Hill has the anal area of the tegmina subroseate. 
The authors cannot agree with Prof. Brunei's suppression of the genus Mestobregma Ent.
News XVI pp.
259260 on the grounds that the insect on wliich it was erected was not Edipoda plattei Thomas as stated by Scudder but one later described by Saussure as Psinidia Trachyrhachis pardalina.
Granting this to be so the action of the author and not his intention shoiild alone be considered and as Mestobregma was based on Edipoda plattei Thomas regardless of material in hand it should rest on that specific name.
The question of the apphcation of the bird genus Ixoreus Bonaparte is a parallel case for discussion of which see Sclater Ibis 1903 p. 142 the final ruUng on which case by the American Ornithologists' Union Committee on Nomenclature vide Auk XXI p. 424 being similar to the opinion expressed above.
An extremely abundant species wherever found but swarming in certain grassland locations.
Mestobregma thomasi Caudell.
St. Louis Missomi Aug. 27 3 c
 1 9 .
These specimens are not separable from male individuals from Indiana received from Prof. Blatchley.
Found in a field overgrown with tall weeds in the city.
METATOR McNeill.
Metator pardalinus Saussure.
Waco Montana Aug. 4 1 d 3 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 and 22 1 c 2 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 6 d 2 9.
Of the series here mentioned nine possess red or reddish wings five yellow wings and one Colorado Springs prairie Aug. 18 9  has the wings orange.
The evidence of this material would thus support the view held by Caudell who regards Psinidia maculosa Saussure as merely the yellow winged form of pardalinus an opinion entertained as possible by Saussure in the original description his words being 'Annae prgecedentis varietas
The Waco record is the most northern for true pardalinus but if maculosa is identical the range is extended as far north as Fort McLeod Alberta.
The specimens taken at Waco were captured among the sagebrush where the species appeared extremely plentiful.
I also found this species plentiful at Colorado Springs in the prairie wherever there was a damp depression.
The insect is not swift of flight and may be easily taken with a net.
CONOZOA Saussure.
Conozoa sulcifrons Scudder.
Grand Junction Mesa Co. Colorado Aug. 15 11 d 12 9 .
Several specimens of this species were submitted to Mr. A N. Caudell for comparison with material in the U. S. National Museum and his remarks are quite interesting and worthy of record.
In part he writes  ' ' They are not Conozoa wallula  they are either C sulcifrons or hehrensi ....
I can scarcely tell these species apart.
Behrensi is supposed to have shorter wings and elytra have the median carina of the prozona more deeply cut and have the wingbands wider.
I have 12 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXVI p. 790. typical specimens of it from California .... these are quite distinct but a good series before me grades into the sulcifrons form. '
' Specimens of behrensi from San Diego and Claremont California appear readily separable from the Grand Junction individuals but these are probably typical specimens.
This species has a rather wide distribution having been recorded from Nogales and the Huachuca mountains southern Arizona in addition to the type locality and Grand Junction Colorado.
It would thus appear to be an Upper and Lower Sonoran species.
I took this species on the bare silt along the banks of the Grand river.
In this locality it was plentiful and many specimens could easily have been taken as their flight is short and not vigorous.
The coloration of the insects is undoubtedly of great protective value.
TRIMEROTROPIS Stl.
Trimerotropis bilobata n. sp.
T3pes c and 9  Antlers Mesa Co. Colorado Aug. 15 1904.
Collected by IMorgan Hebard.
Hebard Collection.
Fig.
11.
 Trimerotropis bilobata n. SY.
Antlers Colorado.
Lateral dew of typeX 3.
This species is one of a number which might with almost equal propriety be placed in either Conozoa or Trimerotropis but which we have placed here chiefly because McNeill has considered its allied species as a member of Trimerotropis rather than Conozoa.
The new form is apparently closely allied to T. rebellis Saussure and differs in the absence of a distinct projecting process on the ventrocaudal angle of the pronotum in the apparently less distinct lateral 190G.
383 angles of the pronotum the more distinct ConozoaYike tegminal bars and the color of the caudal femora.
The great elevation of the prozonal section of the median carina of the pronotum immediately separates it from most of the species.
No close relationship exists to Conozoa wallula or any of the recently described species of that genus the whole build being different from that seen in most of the forms of that genus although C. acuminata approaches it very closely in this respect.
Size small form compressed slender and elongate surface finely punctate.
Head with the occiput considerably elevated domed vertex but slightly lower than the summit of the eyes fastigium strongly declivent rather broad in both sexes greatest width very slightly more than the length lateral margins distinct and very distinctly converging cephalad passing into the carinse of the frontal costa without interruption median carina of the fastigium precurrent less distinct than the lateral margins of the same frontal costa rather regularly but not strongly expanding ventrad the margins subparallel for a short distance around the median ocellus median sections distinct sulcate less so dorsad the marginal carinse reaching the clypeal margin  antennse slightly less than twice the length of the head and pronotum slightly depressed eye subovoid moderately prominent particularly in the male slightly greater than male or equal to female the length of the infraocular sulcus.
Pronotum rather narrow cephalic margin of the dorsum very obtuseangulate caudal margin very slightly obtuseangulate median carinae cristate on the prozona and strongly divided into two lobes by the first sulcus the incision being Vshaped and quite broad in the male and very narrow in the female the cephalic lobe is subtrigonal in the male and lower and more longitudinally rounded in the female second lobe equal to the first lobe in height and rounded dorsad in both sexes carina of the metazona subcristate in both sexes prozona about twothirds the length of the metazona lateral angles of the disk very distinct and slightly carinate on the cephalic section of the metazona lateral lobes slightly deeper than long the ventrocaudal angle rounded w'lih.
a very slight indication of a ventral blunt protuberance.
Tegmina elongate narrow subequal in width the costal dilation Trivicrotropis hilohata n. sp.
Wing.
X 2.
slight and rounded apex slightly recurved dorsad rovuided obliquely truncate intercalary vein distinct about intermediate in position except dorsad where it regularly approaches and joins the median vein.
Wings long and narrow the width being contained twice in the length  costal margin evenly and verj gently arcuate in the distal half apex very narrowly rounded axillary field arcuate apically.
Caudal femora quite slender gently tapering the width contained about three and a half times in the length pregenicular constriction not great pagina rather flat the sculpturing regular and quite distinct  caudal tibiae with nine spines on the external margins.
General colors ecru drab overlaid with bistre in the male the lighter color on the head and pronotum hoary white.
Head with the facial and costal carinas maculate with blackish brown a large maculation beneath the base of each antenna and the ventral section of the eye marked with the same color in the male the ventrocaudal section of the gense being washed with the same tint and a postocular stripe indicated while the fastigium is marked with pale cinnamonrufous and a pair of arcuate diverging bars of the same color are present on occiput as well as a blackish interocular bar on the vertex antennse rather broadly annulate with the two general colors.
Female with the head finely sprinkled with blackish spots with a trace of a light postocular bar.
Pronotum of the male with a median bistre area which narrows caudad and the lateral lobes of prozona are strongly washed with bistre forming a contrast Avith the hoary metazona.
Pronotum of the female marked much as in the male but the whole darker and without light colors while the lateral angles of the disk and a distinct oblique bar on the lateral lobes of the prozona are darker than any of the other pronotal markings.
Tegmina with two complete transverse bars one median one at the proximal fourth and an incomplete bar just distad of the median transverse one which is broader mesad than at the costal and sutural margins the bar at the basal fourth toward the sutural margin approaching the median bar and also extending proximad in the intercalarj region distal third with small irregular maculations which are chiefly along the veins.
Wings with the transverse bar bistre and situated in the middle ciuite narrow as the width is not quite a third and a little more than a fourth of the width of the wing caudad the band arches very slightly proximad and only slightly suffuses the caudal margin the stigma broad and heavy and extending about half way to the base  distal section hyaline with the longitudinal veins broadly suffused with bistre toward the apex proximal half primrose yellow.
Cephalic and median limbs ecru drab distinctly annulate with bistre.
Caudal femora ecru drab with three distinct very dark bars and a solidly colored genicular region the bars being paler laterad than dorsad the pregenicular annulus ochraceous bujff caudal tibise rather dull citron yellow touched with spots of fuscous and with the genicular sections bistre and the tips of the spines blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 17 mm.
24 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.5  4.5  Length of tegmen 18.2  26  Length of caudal femur.
9.2  12.5  A series of one male and two female paratypic specimens have been examined in addition to the types.
The paratypic male has the markings slightly more subdued than in the male type.
One of the female specimens is marked as in the male type with strongly contrasted colors except that the tegmina have the bars somewhat obsolete and the anal area with the veins more strongly lined with dark.
The remaining female specimen is colored much the same as the type except that the bars of the tegmina are slightl' less conspicuous.
The female type is slightly larger than the paratypic individuals of the same sex while the additional male is slightly larger than the type.
This species was found in the arid valley of the Grand river near Antlers station where the only vegetation was a heavy growth of low cactus interspersed with occasional sage.
Specimens were by no means uncommon and could have been easily taken in numbers had the cactus not interfered so much with collecting as when alarmed the individuals would invariably seek refuge in the dense beds of cactus.
Orthoptera were not present in great numbers at this locality but the few species represented were quite interesting.
The species yEoloplus chenopodii was the most abundant and most striking.
Trimerotropis gracilis Thomas.
Antlers Garfield Co. Colorado Aug. 15 3 9 .
This very distinct species has been recorded from localities ranging from central Idaho to Salt Lake Valley and Colorado.
Thomas has recorded it also from the northern boundary 49th parallel of Montana and Dakota and Scudder includes Nebraska in its range.
Caudell has definitely recorded this species from Durango Colorado and Gillette credits it to nineteen localities in the same State the most eastern of which are Greeley and Pueblo the majority being west of the divide.
This species was found among the cactus and sage in the dry bottom lands of the Grand river valley.
The insects were by no means plentiful and were also extremely shy Trimerotropis cincta Thomas.
Manitou Colorado 67007000 feet Aug. 23 11 6 4 
.
The above series shows considerable variation in the strength of the median carina of the fastigium some individuals having it strongly marked and in others it is hardly perceptible.
The color of the caudal tibiae is quite variable in this species as already noticed by McNeill and the series in hand exhibits the following  ten with the distal threefourths of the caudal tibise greenish yellow four with the same bluish green and one red.
According to Gillette this species is found in the mountains and foothills of Colorado at altitudes ranging between 6000 and 10000 feet and on both slopes of the divide.
In his series of ninetyfive specimens the hind tibise were without exception bluish or yellowish on the distal portion.
The species has been recorded from Nebraska in addition to New Mexico and Colorado.
The collection of the Academy contains specimens from Salida Manitou Park and Fort Collins Horsetooth Mountain Colorado.
This species was plentiful on a path among stunted pines on the upper slopes of the foothills back of Manitou.
The location would have made it particular difficult to capture specimens had not the individuals apparently trusted to their protective coloration.
A close approach was necessary to cause them to take wing.
Trimerotropis ferruginea McNeill.
Daileys Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 c.
Sphinx Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 3 c 2 9 .
Spire Rock Montana Aug. 12 1 cJ' on bare mountain .
Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 4 d' .
The specimen from Spire Rock is assigned to this species with considerable doubt as it is larger and has a rather different facies but does not appear to be any closely allied form.
The males from Upper Geyser Basin appear rather different from the Daileys and Sphinx specimens being a little smaller and more like the Spire Rock individual in their somewhat more robust form though considerably smaller size.
This species is probably little more than a form of bifasciata and hardly worthy of a name in view of the great amount of individual variation found in most of the species of the genus.
This species was found in rather bare mountainous sections and on the formation about the larger Yellowstone geysers.
Trimerotropis monticola Saussure.
iIammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 
.
Summit of foothills.
Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 1 c
.
These specimens agree quite well with Nebraska Colorado and Wyoming specimens in the collection of the Academy.
The specimens examined present considerable variation in the length of the tegmina.
This appears to be the first record of the species north of Colorado except TieSiding Wyoming from which locality Gillette has recorded it.
These specimens were taken in the more hilly portions about the Mammoth Hot Springs where on account of the character of the country they were captured with difficulty.
The individuals fly swiftly and for long distances when alarmed.
Trimerotropis praeolara McNeill.
Grand Junction Mesa Co. Colorado Aug. 15 5 cJ 1 9 .
This species has the fuscous band of the wing very broad slightly more than onethird the length of the same and well continued around on the caudal margin while the spur is almost absent the disk very pale greenish yellow and the apex hyaline except for the infuscation of some of the veins.
The fight base color is almost bone white in some specimens and distinctly washed with rufous in others.
This species is known only from Salt Lake Utah and Sidney Nebraska in addition to the locality here given.
Among the bushes growing in the silt deposit along the banks of the Grand river these specimens were secured.
The species was by no means as plentiful as T. montana which was found in the same locality.
Trimerotropis laticincta Saussure.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 6 o  5 
.
Knob Hifi Colorado Springs Aug. 1822 7 d 4 9 .
This series exhibits considerable variation in the intensity of the bands of the tegmina and in the shade of the light basic color.
In some the latter is decidedly reddish in others pale yefiowish and in the majority dull ochraceous.
The caudal tibiae are more orange in some specimens than in others and the pronotum varies from dull ferruginous through warm browns to dull olive and in one specimen dull blackishbrown.
As far as can be determined from the material in hand Scudder's T. latifasciata from Utah is the same as this and his name would have precedence.
However as no Utah material is available I prefer to use Saussiire's name provisionally at least for specimens from eastern Colorado.
The evidence given by Cockerell  regarding the difference in color characters of individuals of this species taken in coitu is especially interesting in view of the value which has been attached to the characters there mentioned i.e. bands on the inner face of the caudal femora and the width and curve of the wing band.
Not much latitude is needed in these characters to connect forms like laticincta and latifasciata and melanoptera.
Gillette does not consider latifasciata and laticincta separable from T. citrina. This species has been recorded from Fort Collins Montrose Grand Junction Denver Baileys and Golden Colorado by Caudell.
One of the more common of the larger prairie land species.
The flight of this insect was less vigorous than is usual in species of the genus.
Trimerotropis melanoptera McNeill.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 1 d .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 17 and 18 2 d 1 
.
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 d.
Two of these specimens agree well in the color of the tegmina with a topotypic Silver City male while three have the bars more prominent and contrasting with the lighter base color.
The metazona of the pronotum is paler than the prozona in these three specimens and in two of them the contrast is as great as in T. monticola.
The black areas of the wings appear to be slightly less extensive than the specimens described by McNeill.
The senior author's T. snowi  may prove to be but a form of this with a less extensive black area on the wings.
From the material then in hand it appeared well worthy of separation but the additional material shows variability which weakens its status.
This species was scarce even on the prairie land which appeared to be its favorite habitat.
In habits it much resembled T. laticincta.
Trimerotropis strenua McNeill.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 and 14 4 d 8 9 .
This species is very close to T. californica Bruner and probably ' Proc.
Davenp.
Acad.
Sci.
IX p. 38.
1 Bull.
94 Colo. Agr.
Exp Sta. pp.
3536.
15 Trans.
Kansas Acad.
Sci. XIX p. 223. should be considered nothing more than a race of it.
The bars of the tegniina are usually somewhat narrower and the caudal tibiae not quite so deep in color.
The majority of the specimens have a more or less distinct ferruginous or ochraceous wash suffusing the tegmina while several have the lighter sections without the same and clear bone white in color as in the pair of californica used for comparison.
A pair of specimens from Salt Lake Valley received from Prof. Bruner and labelled by him T. prceclara belong to this species.
Some of the specimens examined have the tegminal bars more distinct and less broken into spots than others while the width also varies as much as the intensity.
A female individual of this species from Salt Lake City in the collection of the Academy has the tegminal bars much broken into annuli.
In nine of the specimens examined a second median bar on the lateral face of the caudal femora is more or less distinctly indicated while in six it is absent or represented only by a very faint clouding.
This beautiful species was quite common in the arid sagebrush region on the outskirts of Salt Lake City and the series was taken with ease.
In spite of the insect's bold coloring it was most inconspicuous when at rest.
Trimerotropis montana McNeill.
Grand Junction Mesa Co. Colorado Aug. 15 10 6 4 9 .
This species if such it might be called is very closely allied to the preceding as has been stated by McNeill.
As far as the material in hand goes it appears to be only a more subdued form with the dark tegminal bars broader and pale areas more ochraceous and in a measure lacking the strong contrast seen in strenua.
The character of the median carina of the fastigium and the proportions of the pronotum do not differ from the series of strenua while the lateral face of the caudal femora in the greater majority have a median band more or less faintly indicated in addition to the constant subapical one.
This species has been previously recorded from Durango and Delta Colorado in addition to Grand Junction as well as Boise City Idaho the type locality.
These insects were taken on the banks of the Grand river on ground that had been recently inundated.
The soil was sandy and clusters of tall bushes grew here and there.
The specimens were active and not taken without difficulty. 
Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc XXVII p. 333.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXIII p. 433.
26 Trimerotropis salina McNeill.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 1 cJ.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 17 3 
.
These specimens are slightly larger than the measurements given by McNeill but we have placed them here chiefly on account of the poorly contrasted tegminal bars and the broad wing band.
The lateral face of the caudal femora presents a median bar of varying intensity in several specimens.
The coloration i.e. blackish bars and suffusion of the ventral sulcus of the caudal femora appears to be too variable to be given the prominence assigned to it by McNeill.
The male individual here studied would be placed in another section of the vinculata group on the femoral coloration while it unquestionably is the same as the three females which have the coloration as described by McNeill.
Instances such as this are by no means confined to this species but can be found in most any large series of a species of the genus.
Trimerotropis fratercula McNeill.
Daileys Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 13 d 6 9 .
Sphinx Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 9  Fountain Lower Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 6 6 d 6 9.
Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 3 d 4 9 .
Mud Volcano Yellowstone Park Aug. 10 1 cJ.
Emerald Spring Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 1 9 .
Yellowstone Lake Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 and 10 1 d  1 9 .
This series is assigned to this species with some little doubt.
Some affinity exists with T. inconspicua Bruner at least as far as published diagnostic characters are concerned.
The coloration of the ventral sulcus of the caudal femora varies in individuals from the same locality and not separable by any other character.
Some present a solid blackish sulcus with a distinct light pregenicular annulus others have a wellmarked additional light median bar and a number of specimens have the black interrupted on the sides of the sulcus but undivided in the middle.
The evidence of this series of fortythree specimens of unquestionably but one species is that the coloration of the sulcus of the caudal femora is of little or no diagnostic importance.
The coloration of the lateral and internal faces of the caudal femora are also unstable in the authors' opinion while the intensity of the tegminal bars and the width of the wing bars are by no means as stable as would be supposed from the importance given them as diagnostic characters.
The series studied presents some variation in size the males from Fountain being somewhat larger than males from Daileys length including tegmina Fountain 28.5 mm. Daileys 25 while the Mud Volcano and Upper Geyser Basin males are slightly smaller than the Daileys specimens 24 mm..
The females appear to be rather uniform in size.
Three of the four females from Upper Geyser Basin are suffused with rufescent while the other female and three males from the same locality are without any suffusion.
The females from Fountain have the colors more contrasted than the majority of the Daileys females while the Emerald Spring female has the contrast just as great.
The males from Fountain have the pale tints more grayish and less ochraceous than in the Daileys males.
The species was so abundant about Daileys that during the iDrief stop of the train nineteen specimens were easily taken.
This was also the most abundant species of Orthoptera found about the geyser formations of the Park.
The insects are wary and rise on the wing with speed.
The coloration of the individuals almost invariably blended exactly with the soil on which they were found.
Trimerotropis vinoulata Scudder.
Electric Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 c.
Muir Bozeman Tunnel Montana Aug. 12 1 9 .
Whitehall Jefferson Co. lontana Aug. 12 1 c
 3 9 .
Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 1 9 .
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 14 1 9 .
Antlers Garfield Co. Colorado Aug. 15 1 d.
Debeque Mesa Co. Colorado Aug. 15 1 d.
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 2 9 .
Manitou Colorado 67007000 feet Aug. 23 4 d 4 9 .
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 19 2 9 .
This series represents a great and interesting amount of variation even for this plastic species 'ariation in size is considerable the largest males being from Electric Debeque and Manitou the smallest from Antlers  the largest female from Salt Lake City the smallest from Austin Bluffs.
These differences in size appear to be individual as the smallest male Antlers is from the same general region as the largest Debeque.
The specimens from Muir and Wliitehall Iontana are large of rather uniform size and but little smaller than the large Salt Lake City individual.
In coloration we find such variation that a detailed account may be of interest.
The Electric specimen has the bands solid and the lighter colors hoary and sharply contrasted the Muir and Whitehall representatives are quite dull the Muir specimen almost blackish while the bands are only moderately distinct in one of the Whitehall individuals broken up into annuli.
The Muir and Whitehall type has the pronotum with little contrast and the caudal femora less variegated than in the Electric individual.
The Yellowstone specimen is overcast with dull hoary the bands very weak narrow and broken into annuli the whole insect being much duller and more inconspicuous than the usual type.
The Salt Lake City female has the bands of about average width but weak and rather broken.
Antlers and Debeque specimens are of the type which might be called normal or typical with the bands distinct broad and solid and the lateral lobes of the pronotum moderately variegated.
Austin Bluffs specimens are overcast with reddish ochraceous one with the bands more distinct and solid than the other Manitou individuals overcast with dull red the bands variable in intensity and solidity but not in width one specimen having the bands quite blackish.
The Garden of the Gods specimens are particularly interesting being entirely washed with brick red the tegminal bands distinct but narrower than usual.
The Garden of the Gods specimens are very interesting as the suffusing tint is the predominating color of that region and in line with this one would expect a uniform very pale type from strongly alkaline regions which does not hold true of the large amount of material of this species seen.
Series from San Diego California one of the original localities Alamogorclo New Mexico and Quartzsite Arizona are extremely variable among themselves and each exhibit extremes as different or nearly so as those in the material here treated.
However no specimens quite as reddish as the Garden of the Gods individual have been seen from other localities.
The band of the wing is quite narrow and weak in some of the Manitou specimens and heavy in Whitehall and Muir individuals.
The species was generally distributed and equally abundant in the localities in which it was collected.
The specimens taken about the Garden of the Gods showed remarkable protective coloration as all were overcast with brick red which blended exactly with the characteristic brick red formation of the Garden.
This was the only species found on these outer oppings.
Trimerotropis coeruleipennis Bruner.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 2 d' 1 9.
Top of Ensign Peak Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 1 d 2 9 .
These specimens of this beautiful species have the tegminal bars uniform in pattern and varying but slightly in intensity except in the female from Salt Iake City in which they are quite dark.
The coloration of the ventral sulcus of the caudal femora varies from black with two light bars in the distal half to but one bar in the region while in ' These may possibly represent one of the other species of the vinculata group several specimens the evanescent bar proximal is present but incomplete.
The coloration of the caudal tibiae varies from the usual light tint to a dark glaucous blue.
The size of the specimens is quite uniform.
This species has been recorded from Washington Yakima Oregon Umatilla Idaho Montana Wyoming Utah and Los Angeles California.
This species was found in the same locations as T. cyaneipennis Avhich species it much resembled in habits.
Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 4 d 4 9 .
Foothills Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 14 3 2 .
This series is quite uniform in size while variation in coloration is chiefly due to the intensity of the broken tegminal bars though one specimen from Salt Lake City is uniforml very pale with most of the markings almost obsolete.
This species has been recorded from the Salt Ijake Valley region and from Grand Canon Flagstaff and Prescott Aiizona.
The two males recorded from Prescott are very considerably darker than any of the Salt Lake A' alley specimens examined.
This species was somewhat common but inhabited the most inaccessible portions of Ensign Peak and owing to the rapidity of its flight specimens were taken Avith no little trouble.
CIRCOTETTIX Scudder.
Circotettix carlinianus Thomas.
Iammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 9 .
Circotettix undulatus Thomas.
Manitou Colorado 6400 and 6700 feet Aug. 23 1 c 1 9 .
pike's Peak Mountain View 9700 feet Aug. 20 1 d' 1 9 .
Cripple Creek Teller Co. Colorado Aug. 19 4 c.
These specimens have been compared with a series of twenty specimens from localities in the mountain regions of New Mexico and one from Utah.
Manitou individuals are more reddish than those from the other localities.
This species was nowhere abundant but several specimens were found on the tailings about Cripple Ci'eek mines.
Circotettix rabulan.
sp.
Types  d and 9  summit of hill at head of springs.
Mammoth Hot ' I.e. a jangling fellow.
Springs Yellowstone National Park Wyoming altitude 7000 feet Aug. 5 1904.
M.
Hebard.
Hebard Collection.
Allied to C. undulatus Thomas and shastanus Bruner but differing from the former in the more robust form the broader head broader heavier and less strongly sulcate frontal costa larger eyes slightly less angulate caudal margin of the pronotum and in details of the coloration as the lighter and usually more variegated tegmina and pronotum and the less distinct fuscous band and spur of the wing.
From shastanus it appears to differ in the heavier form and the structure of the first subjacent radial vein.
The form of the wing of this species is essentially that of C. undulatus and its closest relationship appears to be with that species.
As shastanus is not available for study comparison can only be made with descriptions but the results of such comparisons seem sufficient to separate the specimens in hand especially when we consider the peculiar structure of the first subjacent radial in the older species while in the new one here treated the structure of that region does not differ materially from the type seen in undulatus.
In coloration a number of specimens of this species bear a striking superficial resemblance to C. carlinianus.
Size medium form quite robust surface finely rugulose.
Head with the occiput gently but distinctly arched the interocular region no more elevated than the summits of the eyes and in width but little less than the length of the eye fastigium slightly declivent forming an obtuse angle with the face nearly as wide as long shallow with the median carina rather faint and the marginal carinse but little more distinct frontal costa broad expanded between the antennae and moderately constricted immediately ventrad of the ocellus margins carinate and nearly c or not 
reaching the clypeal margin broadly sulcate ventrad of the ocellus particularly in the male strongly punctate dorsad with a depressed area at the junction with the fastigium eyes moderately prominent rather small very broad ovoid in shape antennae slightly longer than the head and pronotum together somewhat depressed in the proximal section.
Pronotum deplanate dorsad broad distinctly expanded caudad cephalic margin very broadly and obtusely angulate caudal margin rectangulate in the male obtuseangulate in the female the angle finely formed and little rounded in either sex lateral angles rounded and hardly marked on the prozona distinct and heavy shoulders present on the metazona median carina fine little elevated depressed at the principal sulcus prozona about half the length of the metazona lateral lobes slightly deeper than long considerably impressed mesad ventrocaudal angle rounded.
Tegmina rather broad the greatest width contained slightly more than four times in the length  costal lobe very slight and low sutiual margin straight apex obliquely truncate toward the sutural margin the distal third of the costal margin arcuate making the immediate apex rounded rectangulate intercalary vein distinct intermediate in position proximad close to the median vein distad.
Wings moderately falcate broad the breadth being contained about once and a half in the length humeral field with the apex rounded acuteangulate  axillary field with the margin very slightly arcuate and not lobate being no more prominent than the next area in the radiate field  posterior axillary vein with its ramus paralleling closely the anterior axillary vein for a considerable distance but not coalescing with it radiate veins moderately thickened.
Caudal femora rather slender the ventral carina distinctly but slightly produced arcuate caudal tibiae with nine spines on the lateral margins.
General color ecru drab sprinkled spotted and blotched with drab eyes burnt umber antennse of the paler color annulate with bistre dorsum of the pronotum and the lateral lobes marked with the darker color.
Tegmina with traces of three bands of quadrate and ocellate spots these spots being almost wholly formed by the infuscation veins and cross veins the bands being proximad proximomesad and distomesad while the distal third is supplied with scattered quadrate ocelli of the darker color.
Wings with the transverse band very weak and almost severed being chiefly an infuscation of veins and without definite limits extending caudomesad and with a broad moderately distinct stigma which extends half way to the base the color of the band and stigma being drab  distal portion hyaline except for inf uscate veins proximal portion citron yellow.
Cephalic and median limbs of the general colors annulate  caudal femora with a pale pregenicular annulus and with traces of two transverse bars which are more distinct dorsad  caudal tibiae pale infuscate proximad and distad the spines touched apically with blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 27.5 mm.
29.7 mm.
Length of pronotum 6.4  6  Length of tegmen 29.5  28.7  Length of caudal femur 13  13.2  A series of ten specimens in the Hebard Collection have been examined in addition to the types five two males and three females 396 Sept from the type locality and date but taken on geyser formation at the upper end of the springs one male from the immediate vicinity of the Hot Springs August 5 another male from the summit of the first foothill of the Gallatin Range at the type locality August 5 and one Fig.
13.
 Circotettix rabula n. sp.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park.
Lateral view of female type.
X 3.
female from Spire Rock Montana August 12.
These specimens vary slightly in the strength of the tegminal bars which are partially solid in some specimens but all other characters appear to agree well with the types.
Two males and two females received from Prof. Gillette and labelled C. verruculatus are referable to this new form.
They are from Dutch George's and Virginia Dale Larimer Co. Colorado.
This species was by no means plentiful about the Hot Springs and much time was occupied in collecting the ten specimens.
The insects are most swift and shy so that great difficulty was experienced in Fig.
14.
 Circotettix rabula n. sp.
X2.
Wing.
approaching them close enough to strike with the net.
They may be heard high in the air making for several minutes at a time a noise like the whirring of machinery.
The sound is continuous while the insects rise and fall in a most peculiar erratic flight.
I have seen specimens of this species fly for over a quarter of a mile making continually this peculiar sound.
Of all the Orthoptera met with this was without doubt the most vigorous and elusive species.
Circotettix suffusus Scudder.
Summit of foothill of Gallatin Range Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 9 .
Hill at head of springs Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 1 cJ'.
Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 6 62 9 1 nymph.
These specimens are rather uniform in color for representatives of this genus one being more clear grayish than the others and several with a faint suggestion of ferruginous in their general tone.
About the Hot Springs this species was found in the open sagebrush of the hillsides while at the Upper Geyser basin it was found in the small grassy openings in the dense pine woods.
Circotettix verruculatus Kirby.f Muir Bozeman Tunnel GallatinPark Co. Montana Aug. 12 1  1 9.
These specimens do not differ in size the female however being slightly more robust.
The frontal costa in the male is quite broad and similar to the female thus differing from a large number of Eastern specimens examined.
A series of thirtyone specimens covering localities extending from the mountain regions of Pennsylvania and Maine west to the northern peninsula of Michigan Pequaming shows that while considerable variation in color and size is present in a series it cannot well be correlated with locality.
The two Montana specimens are among the largest seen.
These two specimens were taken on a cinder pile beside the railroad.
Their crackling was very noticeable whenever they took flight.
HADROTETTIX Scudder.
Hadrotettix trifasoiatus Say.
Sappington Gallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 d .
Colorado Springs  The type of this species was taken in Latitude 57 N.  and in all probabihty was collected by Drummond who traversed the Athabasca and Peace river region in tliis latitude in western Athabasca and northeastern British Columbia.
If collected by Richardson the other naturalist of the Franklin expedition it was no doubt taken either in the vicinity of York Factory Keewatin or on the Athabasca river south of Lake Athabasca.
Colorado Aug. 17 2 6.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 17 and 18 4 c 6 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 7 d 10 9 .
These specimens exhibit considerable variation in the intensity and width of the bands of the tegmina in the female some having them very weak and broken up into spots while a few have them as distinct as in the males.
The males are quite uniform in the coloration of the tegmina both in width of bars and intensity.
This species was quite common on the prairie.
The flight is slow and specimens may be easily captured even without a net.
BRACHYSTOLA Scudder.
Brachystola magna Girard.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 9 d 4 91 nymph.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 17 5 d 1 nymph.
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 and 19 2 d' 6 91 nymph.
This series of thirty specimens clearly shows that the species has two color phases and that the green phase should not be confused with Charpentier's B. virescens a Mexican species of a quite distinct character as an examination of his plate will show.
Of the series examined eight are of the brown phase and twentyone of the green while one is too discolored to determine its true color.
The green specimens vary considerably in the shade of the green but the males appear to have the richer coloration.
There is considerable variation in the size of the males.
The following color description is made from a female specimen in the green phase from Colorado Springs received alive in Philadelphia and carefully stuffed after death today presenting the same coloration as in life.
Predominating color oil green.
Head dark oil green above becoming paler ventrad on the face and gense the caudal margin of the gense the mandibles and broad band extending from cephalad of the eye ventrad to the clypeal sulcus and the lateral portions of the clypeus pale flesh color eyes clay color sprinkled with bistre antennae dusky margined laterad in the proximal section with pale greenish.
Pronotum with the lateral and median carinse marked with very dark French green on the metazona extending slightly ventrad and somewhat suffusing the lateral lobes lateral carinse bordered mesad by a line of pinkish vinaceous recurved caudal and lateral lobe margins chiefly flesh color.
Tegmina tawny ochraceous with fairsized bistre spots well distributed over them.
Abdomen suffused with bistre dorsad  a pair of rather broad distinct longitudinal lines one on each side of the median carina and a transverse series of spots on the caudal margin of each segment vinaceoiis.
Venter bone white.
Cephalic and median hmbs bone white washed with greenish.
Caudal femora oil green dorsad whitish ventrad the ventrolateral sulcus with quadrate touches of vinaceousruf ous while the internal face is suffused with the same color a median line of French green is present on the lateral face and one of brick red on the internal face genicular region bluish green dorsad with a proximal transverse blackish bar ventrad the arches chestnut caudal tibise lavender laterad vinaceous internally the genicular region bluish the spines bone white tipped with black.
This species was by no means abundant but in the prairie region specimens would every now and then be found.
The insects were so awkward that they seemed to have almost no control over their movements.
Their coloration however undoubtedly proves a great protection to them.
LOCUSTINE. PAROPOMALA Scudder.
Paropomala wyomingensis Thomas.
1871.
Mesops wyomingensis Thomas Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 152.
.long the east base of the Black Hills in the cimty of Cottonwood Creek Fall River Co. South Dakota or Converse Co. Wyoming.
1890.
Mesops cyUndncus Bruner Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XII p. 48.
Valentine Nebraska along the north side of Keya Paha creek also on the bluffs south of Chadron Nebraska.
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 6 cJ' 1  .
As far as can be determined from the material in hand including specimens determined by Bruner as both wyomingensis and cylindricus and the literature bearing on the subject no reason is apparent for separating the two abovementioned forms.
Bruner's cylindricus was based on the brown phase while in addition to the coloration larger size was given as a differential character.
This latter would appear to be purely an individual matter as green specimens have been examined nearly as large as Bruner's measurements of that sex in cylindricus.
All the Roggen males are in the brown phase and the single female in the green.
Material has also been examined from Valentine and Haigler Nebraska and Denver and Greeley Colorado.
These specimens were beaten from some very tall weeds near the railroad track while the train was making a brief stop.
SCHISTOCERCA Stll.
ScMstocerca lineata Scudder.
Brush Morgan Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1904 I  .
This individual is much smaller than the males measm'ed by Scudder.
Gillette  has called attention to the variation in size in this species.
Beaten from thicket of weeds.
HESPEROTETTIX Scudder.
Hesperotettix viridis Thomas.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. IS 1 
.
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 d 2 9.
Hill near cogroad station Manitou Colorado Aug. 16 2 9 .
These specimens vary considerably in size the Manitou females being larger than any of the others and similar to two from Arizona and New Mexico while seven specimens from five other Colorado localities are in size about equal to the Colorado Springs individuals.
The coloration varies very little and then only in the intensity of the blackish head and pronotal markings.
This species was found distributed over a considerable region but was in no place common.
Hesperotettix festivus Scudder.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 and 14 10 c 11 9 .
Hillside at Salt Lake City Aug. 14 1 c 1 9.
Top of Ensign Peak Salt Lake City Aug. 13 2 d 2 9.
This series as a whole has shorter wings than nine individuals from southern Aiizona and in consequence of this the specimens appear somewhat more robust.
The variation in size in the females is considerable the larger type greatly predominating while the males vary appreciably.
The coloration tends in some specimens toward brownish and in a few is distinctly brown.
This is also true of a male Salt Lake City specimen  which has been in the Academy collection quite a time.
This species was by far the most plentiful of the genus Hesperotettix which I found and individuals were quite coimnon in the sage growing from the foot to the top of Ensign Peak.
Individuals of the species were very active but relied chiefly for protection on their jumping ability which was very considerable.
Hesperotettix gillettei Bruner. Newcastle Garfield Co. Colorado Aug. 15 1 9 .
This recently described species is only known from the Grand river drainage. 
Bull.
94 Colo. Agric.
Exp.
Sta. p. 38. 
July 24 1898.
23 Hesperotettix Gillettei Bruner Bull.
94 Colo. Agr.
Exp.
Sta. p. 61 1904.
Rifle Glen wood Springs Delta and Grand Junction Colorado.
During a brief stop of the train at Newcastle I succeeded in capturing a single specimen of this species in the dust beside the railroad track.
Hesperotettix speciosus Scudder.
Akron Washington Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 c.
The median carina of the pronotum of this specimen is deep maroon piuple which depth of coloration is almost equalled in a male from Rocky Ford Colorado.
The specimen was beaten from tall weeds.
OLOPLirS Scudder.
.ffioloplus regalis Dodge.
Fort Morgan Morgan Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 d.
A single specimen was beaten from low bushy weeds growing densely about a water tank.
Vigorous beating for several minutes failed to produce other specimens.
.ffiloloplus chenopodii Bruner.
Antlers Garfield Co. Colorado Aug. 15 11 d 14 9 .
This series varies considerably in the intensity of the coloration some individuals being more ashy than others.
The specimens were easily taken in spite of the cactus in which they invariably sought refuge for their movements were slow and they could jump but a short distance.
The species was abundant.
BRADYNOTES Scudder.
Bradynotes obesa Thomas.
Summit of first foothill behind hotel.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 
.
Top of bare hill opposite DeviUs Kitchen Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 1 c 2 
.
Although much time was spent searching carefully for specimens of this species two days' collecting resulted in but four specimens being found.
All were taken on the gravelly tops of the foothills where vegetation was almost absent.
Their color blended perfectly with the soil and they appeared to rety on this as a means of protection.
PODISMA Latreille.
Podisma dodgei Thomas.
Pike's Peak Colorado at elevations of 9700 Mountain View and 10200 feet Aug. 20 2 d 1 
.
These specimens and the specimen of Hippiscus altivolus were the only Orthoptera seen in the rather barren tract of stunted aspen above the railroad pumping station.
This species seemed to be strictly terrestrial in habitat.
Podisma oreasn.
sp.
Types  cJ and 9  summit of foothill of Gallatin Range Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone National Park Wyoming.
Altitude 7000 feet.
Aug. 5 1904.
Coll.
Morgan Hebard.
Closely allied to P. ascensor Scudder from American Fork Canon Utah agreeing almost perfectly in the form of the abdominal appendages and other characters but differing in the vertex being somewhat elevated the interspace between the eyes in the male over twice as broad as the first antennal joint the frontal costa more sulcate the size slightly larger the antennse reddish and the caudal tibiae differently colored.
Size medium for the genus.
Head with the occiput rounded and distinctly elevated above the pronotum in the c hardly elevated in the 
 fastigium moderately declivent very shallowly and broadly excavated interspace between the eyes in both sexes over twice as wide as the proximal joint of the antennae frontal costa broad hardly c
or very slightly 
narrower than the interspace between the eyes slightly depressed around the ocellus not sulcate biseriate punctate dorsad  antennae rather short defective in the c
 distinctly but not considerably longer than the pronotum in the 9  eyes hardly prominent truncate cephalad distinctly longer than the infraocular sulcus.
Pronotum very slightly inflated very slightly tectate metazona finely punctate cephalic margin subtruncate caudal margin very slightly arcuate no distinct lateral carinae but shoulder angles moderately prominent caudad prozona slightly longer than the metazona in both sexes quadrate in the c slightly transverse in the 9  principal transverse sulcus very well marked median carina more distinct on the metazona than cephalad but not markedly elevated anywhere in its length lateral lobes distinctly longer than broad.
Tegmina slightly less than the pronotum in length sublanceolate twice as long as broad in the c  half again as long as broad in the 
 apex narrowly rounded tegmina well separated dorsad.
Abdomen with the apex but little elevated and not at all recurved furcula about a third the length of the supraanal plate and distinctly longer than the segment from which they spring simple parallel supraanal plate produced trigonal considerably inflated mesad median sulcation and bordering ridges distinct on the proximal half the sulcation obsolete distad  'Opeiai in allusion to its habitat.
1906 403 cerci slender strongly tapering in the proximal half very slightly tapering in the distal half apex blunt and very slightly excavated and falling considerably short of the apex of the supraanal plate subFic i5.Podisma oreas n. sp.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park.
 Lateral ew of male type.
X 4.
genital plate with the apical margin slightly elevated the whole plate evenly tapering to this section which is narrowly subtruncate and with a slight depressed area immediately caudad of the margin.
Prosternal spine erect slightly retrorse thick and rather blunt.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctly broader than long in the c .
over half again as broad as long in the 9  metasternal lobes subattingent in the c separated by a subquadrate interspace in the 9 .
Median and cephalic limbs no more inflated in the d than in the 9 .
Caudal limbs moderately robust femora reaching to the apex of the abdomen caudal tibiffi with eleven spines on each margin.
General color bistre in the 6 burnt umber in the 9 .
Postocular streak rather faint and weak seal brown in color antennse carmine rather dull distad.
Tegmina in the c darker ventrad than dorsad unicolorous in the 9 .
Stripes on the pleura distinct.
Caudal femora with indications of two dark bars chevronshaped on the faces the light color being an ecru drab genicular arches and proximal section of the lobes on the internal face blackish ventral face canary yellow duller in the male than m the female caudal tibitB very dull olive green in the 6 and ochraceous m the 9  except the dorsal face which is gamboge yellow in both sexes spines black.
Fig.
1 6.
 Podlsma oreas n.sp.
Dorsal view of apex of maleabdo' men.
X4.j Measurements.
Length of body 20 mm.
23 mm.
Length of pronotum 4.8 '' 5.5  Length of tegmen A  5  Length of caudal femur 10.5  12  The type specimens are unique.
These two specimens were taken on the pebbly summit of the foothills back of the Mammoth Hot Springs Hotel.
The ground in this region was quite bare but few plants being noticed.
Podisma oregonensis Thomas.
The following localities are represented all in Yellowstone Park Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 4 cJ 1 
.
Summit of first foothill of Gallatin range Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 4 d 8 9 .
Continental Divide near 8300 feet elevation alpine meadow Aug. 7 1 d.
ApoUinaris Spring Aug. 6 1 9 .
Yellowstone Lake Aug. 7 8 d 7 
.
Near Grand Caiion Aug. 10 10 d 4 
.
The specimens from the higher altitudes as the Continental Divide and Grand Canon representatives average smaller than the individuals from lower altitudes.
One male from Mammoth Hot Springs is partially covered with geyser deposit and is larger than any representative of the same sex d seen.
In coloration some specimens have the paler markings more brilliant than in others and some few individuals from Grand Canon are suffused with smoky brown.
This species appeared to be widely distributed and was found quite plentiful in the short grass of all the elevated open lands in the Park.
The species was strictly terrestrial and individuals were invariably active and possessed of considerable saltatorial power.
MELANOPLUS Stil.
Melanoplus lakinus Scudder.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 to 22 6 d 4 9 .
 Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 d 1 9.
Fort Morgan Colorado Aug. 24 11 d 8 9 .
Akron Colorado Aug. 24 2 d.
Several of the above specimens belong to the richly colored green phase described by Gillette.
In all the localities in which I collected on the Colorado prairie where the vegetation was high and rank I found this beautiful species in moderate numbers.
The individuals were very active but could be easily beaten from the weeds in which they had taken refuge.
The green form was noticeable for its brilliancy Melanoplus occidentalis Thomas.
Emigrant Montana Aug. 4 1 d 2 
.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado.
Aug. 17 to 22 7 d 11 
.
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 4 cJ 5 .
Garden of the Gods Manitou Colorado Aug. 17 2 cJ 8 9.
Pike's Peak Colorado Aug. 20 1 d at Mountain View 9700 feet 1 9 at 10100 feet 1 9 at Middle Hudsonian 10.500 feet.
The specimens here recorded from Emigrant Montana are as far as known the most northern definite record except one from Bismarck North Dakota.
The species has been recorded by Gillette from locahties up to an altitude of 8000 feet and in view of the Pike's Peak records here given it will be seen to extend to an elevation of at least 10500 feet and to be truly an alpine species.
In size these Pike's Peak individuals do not appear appreciably smaller than specimens from the vicinity of Colorado Springs and are considerably larger than others from Durango Colorado.
From the material collected this species appears to frequent a variety of habitats from a distinctly arid region at Emigrant to a grassy gully in the Garden of the Gods.
On the whole this form frequented the more sterile sections of the regions in which it was collected.
Melanoplus flabellifer Scudder.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 2 o' .
Garden of the Gods Manitou Colorado Aug. 17 4 c.
These specimens are identical with Scudder's flabellifer in the form of the cerci but the validity of the species is in the authors' opinion questionable.
As Gillette has shown 5 a large series of specimens will contain forms referable to true occidentalis flabellifer and cuneatus and have a number of intermediates between these types as well.
A number of the specimens referred in this paper to occidentalis are not typical of it but were placed there as it is the older species and has priority over flabellifer in case the latter is synonymized.
This action appears to us to be inevitable but the material at hand is not extensive enough to take such action.
No specimens of the cuneatus type are in the series.
The specimens of this species were taken in the same localities as M. occidentalis.
Melanoplus bowditchi Scudder.
Grand Junction Mesa Co. Colorado Aug. 15 3 d'.
Newcastle Garfield Co. Colorado Aug. 16 2 d .
These specimens are quite peculiar in appearance and not at all  Bull 94 Colo. Agr.
Exp.
Sta. pp.
5354.
27 similar in coloration to individuals from eastern Colorado and Nebraska.
The coloration is decidedly brown sometimes gray brownish and little yellow or clear gray is apparent.
The head and pronotum are sprinkled with fine umber dots and the tegmina have distinct quadrate maculations.
The length of the body ranges from 17.5 to 19.5 millimeters.
All of the specimens of this species were found in the valley of the Grand river.
Those taken at Grand Junction were found on silt near the river where very little vegetation was to be seen.
The insect's coloration was extremely protective and the species relied almost entirely on its wings for locomotory power.
Melanoplus flavidus Scudder.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 1722 21 d 10 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 4 9 .
Garden of the Gods Manitou Colorado Aug. 17 and 19 1 cJ 1 9 .
This series shows considerable variation in size and color the latter chiefly in varying intensity of the pattern.
This species was found in the same situations as M. occidentalis but in much greater numbers.
Melanoplus sanguineus Bruner.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 1 c 1 9 .
This striking and beautiful species was recently described from Lamar and Las Animas in the prairie section of the Arkansas valley Colorado.
This record shows it ascends well into the foothills.
The coloration of the caudal femora and tibiae is very striking and serves to readily identify the species.
The female specimen in hand has the head caudal section of the disk of the pronotum and the dorsal face of the caudal femora somewhat suffused with greenish.
The specimens were taken in the high grass of a meadow at the western entrance to the Garden of the Gods.
Melanoplus bruneri Scudder.
Old Faithful Geyser Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7lc.
This single specimen was taken in a small grassy field in the dense pine woods back of Old Faithful Inn.
Melanoplus intermedius Scudder.
Sphinx Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 c5.
Sappington Gallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 d.
Geyser formation Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 cJ.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 6 d  3 9 .
Top of Ensign Peak Salt Lake City Aug. 1 3 5 d  2 9 .
Newcastle.
Garfield Co. Colorado Aug. 16 1 d.
The form of the cerci of the male individuals here placed under this species agree fairly well with Scudder's figure of those parts and notwithstanding his remarks to the contrary the authors believe intermedius is at the most not more than a form of atlanis and probably not even worthy of a name varietal or otherwise.
Numbers of specimens have been examined which seem to connect atlanis and intermedius and all such are here treated under atlanis only those closely approximating Scudder's figure being referred provisionally to intermedius.
Considerable variation in size is noticed males ranging from 18 to 24 millimeters in the length of body.
One male has the caudal tibiae pale reddish all the others varying shades of glaucous.
One of the typical sagebrush species.
In some localities it was quite plentiful.
Melanoplus atlanis Riley.
Livingston Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 3 c 4 9 .
Electric Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 d.
Jefferson Valley Montana Aug. 5 1 9 .
Three Forks Gallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 cJ.
Iammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park up to 7050 feet Aug. 5 2 c 2  .
Fountain Lower Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 619.
Pine woods Old Faithful Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 4 cJ 1 9 .
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 14 c 12 9 .
Hillside 4700 feet.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 14 5 d 1 9 .
Top of Ensign Peak 4900 feet Salt Lake City Aug. 13 3 cJ .
Five miles south of Salt Lake City in alfalfa field Aug. 13 2 c 3 9 .
Grand Junction Mesa Co. Colorado Aug. 15 1 cJ 2 9 .
Newcastle Garfield Co. Colorado Aug. 16 1 6.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 to 22 7 d 2 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 3 d 2 9 .
Manitou Colorado Aug. 23 9 d 1 9  same locality at 6700 feet Aug. 16 4 d 1 9 .'
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 5 d 7 9.
Dark Caiion Pike's Peak 8920 feet Aug. 16 2 9 .
Roggen Colorado Aug. 24 2 9 .
This series exhibits a very great amount of variation in size and coloration and in the form of the cerci many of the males placed here approach intermedius as mentioned in the remarks under that form.
The dullest specimens with little contrasted coloration are from the Garden of the Gods and the palest ones are from the vicinity of Salt Lake City.
However while the majority of specimens of each series from the two above localities are uniformly dark or light a few specimens from each locality are of what might be called the average type.
Quite a number of specimens have the caudal tibite of various shades of glaucous.
A common species in both sagebrush and prairiegrass.
Melanoplus bilituratus Walker.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 1 c
.
Top of Ensign Peak Salt Lake City Aug. 13 1 d.
These specimens are perfectly typical of bilituratus which is probably only a race of atlanis.
This is the first record of this species from Utah and the first one east of Fort Halleck Elko Co. Nevada except one from Weeksville Missoula Co. Montana.
These two specimens were both taken on hilly ground covered with Melanoplus spretis Thomas.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 2  .
Mountain View Pike's Peak Colorado Aug. 20 9705 feet 1 c.
The capture of these specimens is of considerable interest as it shows that this very destructive species is still present either as a migrant or as a native in regions formerly devastated by it.
The absence of recent records of this species from Colorado shows it has become a scarce species.
The material examined has been compared with individuals from Nebraska and North Dakota.
Two specimens from the Garden of the Gods were taken in a grassy meadow while the other specimen was taken in an aspen thicket in sparse grass.
Melanoplus defectus Scudder.
Muir Bozeman Tunnel ParkGallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 2 d.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 c.
Summit of first foothill of Gallatin range.
Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 2 c 3 9 .
Top of bare hill opposite Devil's Kitchen Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 51 6.
This species previously known only from the type locality.
Grand Junction Colorado and Nebraska is quite distinct from the atlanisspretis type the form of the subgenital plate which is considerabh elongate being at a glance sufficient to separate it.
Melanoplus dawsoni Scudder.
Muir Bozeman Tunnel GallatinPark Co. Montana Aug. 12 2 c 8 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 22 2 9 .
Manitou Colorado Aug. 23 1 c 7 9 .
Hillside near Manitou Colorado 6700 feetAug.
16 5c7 9.
Material from Fort Collins Colorado has been examined in this connection.
All the material studied belongs to the shortwinged type of the species.
Taken as a whole the series examined is cuite uniform in size and with such color variation as does exist being chiefly in the lighter or dark shade of the general color.
I found this species quite plentiful in a grassy field choked with many bushes.
In this locality the species far outnumbered any other Orthopteron.
At Ianitou I found it on the hillside where mountainous plants and scrub oaks formed practically the only vegetation.
Melanoplus montanus Thomas.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 3 c 6 9 .
Norris Pass Continental Divide Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 2 9 .
This rather conspicuous species has previously been recorded only from Montana.
The males in the series examined are quite uniform in size and fairly so in coloration.
The females vary considerably in size one from Mammoth Hot Springs being distinctly smaller than the others which latter are slightly larger than the two females from Norris Pass.
The dark colors are more blackish and the browns more rufescent in the Norris Pass individuals than in any others.
A distinctly mountainous species which I found only on the higher hillsides.
The insects were powerful but too awkward to escape captvu'e.
Melanoplus altitudinum Scudder.
Pike's Peak Colorado Dark Canon 8920 feet Aug. 16 16 d 9 9  1 nymph upper slope of Dark Canon 9000 feet Aug. 16 2 c 2 
 below Windy Point 12000 feet Aug. 20 3 d 2 9 .
The Dark Canon specimens are quite uniform in size but the three Windy Point specimens are smaller than any of the former and the males are smaller than any specimens of the species seen.
The smallest Dark Canon male measures 16.2 millimeters in length while a Windy Point specimen measures 14.5.
There is considerable variation in the intensity of color in the series examined but the pattern does not vary to any considerable degree.
The proximal portions of the antennae are more red than orange in all the Pike's Peak specimens.
The ventral sulcus of the caudal femora is dull yellowish in some specimens and suffused with sanguineous in others.
This species was extremely common in grassy Dark Canon while several specimens were also taken in the short grass above the treeline.
The insects were active but easily captured.
Melanoplus fasciatus Walker.
Pine woods.
Old Faithful Geyser Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 3 cJ 6 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 1 9 .
Manitou Colorado 6900 feet Aug. 23 3 d' 2 9 .
Pike's Peak Colorado Mountain View 9700 feet Aug. 20 1 d  Dark Canon 8920 feet Aug. 16 1 d  below Windy Point 12000 feet Aug. 20 1 9 These specimens vary considerably in size as is usual in this species particularly in the females.
No difference is noted between Pennsylvania and New Jersey specimens and those recorded above.
All the individuals here studied have the tegmina falling short of the tips of the caudal femora.
The Windy Point record carries the vertical range of this species a thousand feet higher than previous records.
This was the only species to be found in the dense pine woods back of Old Faithful Geyser and it was one of the very few distinctly sylvan species taken.
One specimen however was captured above the timberline on Pike's Peak and one on the prairie outside of Colorado Springs.
The insects were extremely powerful and vigorous.
Melanoplus femurrubrum DeGeer.
Three Forks Gallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 2 d.
WHlow Creek Gallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 2 d.
Sappington Gallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 3 6 2 9.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 4 d 1 9 .
Geyser crust Old Faithful Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 4 cJ  1 
.
Five miles south Salt Lake City Utah in alfalfa field Aug. 13 1 6.
Grand Junction Mesa Co. Colorado Aug. 15 1 6.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 1722 39 c 21 .
Manitou Colorado Aug. 22 1 c 5 9 .
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 1 cJ' 2 9.
Dark Canon Pike's Peak Colorado 8920 feet Aug. 16 1 cJ.
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 4 6.
Table Rock Pawnee Co. Nebraska Aug. 25 1 .
Hannibal and Louisiana Missouri Aug. 25 2 cJ.
St. Louis Missouri Aug. 27 4 c 1 9 .
The Colorado series contains individuals which are typical of M. plumbeus as understood by Scudder but from this extremely bright type any number of intermediates forming a complete chain and connecting the dull form of femurrubrum found in the East can be selected.
From the Knob Hill series alone the extreme plumbeus type and typical femurrubrum with seven graded intermediates can be selected.
The majority of specimens belong to the intermediate forms the extremes being scarcer in the studied series than the annectant forms.
The authors fully agree with Gillette's remarks  on this species and cannot consider plumbeus as other than brightly colored femurrubrum.
The specimens from Roggen Colorado Nebraska and Missouri do not approach plumbeus.
The specimens from Montana localities are very 2 Bull.
94 Colo. Agr.
Exp.
Sta. pp.
4850. noticeably smaller than the others examined.
No shortwinged individuals have been seen.
This species was found in many localities but nowhere more common than in the prairie grass outside of Colorado Springs.
The brilliantly colored specimens M. plumbeus Dodge were always found in the damper locations where vegetation was most abundant.
Melanoplus monticola Scudder.
Geyser crust Old Faithful Geyser Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 1 9 .
Near Grand Canon Yellowstone Park Aug. 10 2 d'  3 
.
Yellowstone Lake Aug. 7 7 c
 9 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 22 27 c 17 9 .
Pike's Peak Colorado Aug. 20 Mountain View 9700 feet 1 d 1 9  Middle Hudsonian 10500 feet 2 6 along timberline 11578 feet 3 d  below Windy Point 12000 feet 13 cd 12 9.
This large series exhibits a considerable amount of variation in color and size the greater part of Avhich can be attributed to elevation.
The specimens from Pike's Peak are all smaller those from over 11000 feet particularly and the colors are as a rule duller.
Specimens from Windy Point are as small as 15 d and 16  9  millimeters in the length of the body while those from Knob Hill are much larger and range between 17.5 and 22 d and 23 and 30  9 .
One male and one female from Yellowstone Lake as well the majority of the Pike's Peak individuals are very dark in color while some of the females from the latter locality are strongly touched with green.
The specimens from the lower elevations are quite richly colored and this with thenlarger size would seem to indicate another species but no characters of the appendages seem to warrant their separation.
The Middle Hudsonian individuals are perfectly intermediate between the Pike's Peak representatives and the lowland specimens in size and the brilliancy of the coloration.
The species has previously been recorded only from Sierra Blanca Colorado 12000 to 13000 feet and from Windy Point Pike's Peak.
This species was found in exceedingly varied locations.
Not only was it abundant in the alpine herbage above the timberline on Pike's Peak but it was also plentiful on the prairie outside of Colorado Springs.
In the Yellowstone Park the species was found in the decidedly boreal portions.
Melanoplus canonicus Scudder.
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 9 d 4 9.
Hillside at Salt Lake City Aug. 14 2 9 .
Top of Ensign Peak Salt Lake City Aug. 13 2 9 .
Grand Junction Colorado Aug. 15 4 9 .
These specimens agree fully with the description and figures of this species which has been previously recorded only from northern and western Arizona.
There is considerable variation in size 20 to 24 millimeters in the length of body of the  and 24 to 28.5 in the 9 .
The color of the caudal tibise varies from pale glaucous to very decided blue pale laterad while the general color is more besprinkled with fine spots of umber on the dorsum in some specimens than in others.
This species was found almost invariably among the sage.
The color of the insects blends so exactly with the sagebrush that when at rest they are difficult to find.
I noticed that the insects almost always sought refuge in the sage instead of on the ground.
On and about Ensign Peak the species was plentiful.
Melanoplus coccineipes Scudder.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 1722 114 377 9.
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 3 d  5 9 .
Manitou Colorado Aug. 22 2 9 .
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 5 c 2 9 .
Roggen Colorado Aug. 24 7 5 4 9 .
This large series presents a considerable amount of variation in size and color.
The smallest d measures 17.5 millimeters in the length of body the largest 22  the smallest 9 20 the largest 26.
The individuals with the pronotum with a dark median bar superficially much resemble M. packardii.
The general coloration is quite dark in some individuals and very light in others the latter type having all the normal darker markings very weak while some few specimens have the dorsum of the head and pronotum suffused with purplish red.
The Roggen individuals are more grayish than any others examined.
Of the large series examined all but two have red caudal tibiae the color usually pale coral red.
The other two specimens a pair from Knob Hill have glaucous tibise.
The authors are much inclined toward the opinion recently expressed by Gillette to the effect that M. coccineipes represents merely a redlegged form of M. angustipennis.
This was one.
of the species which made up the vast swarms of Orthoptera everywhere to be found in the prairie grasses outside of Colorado Springs.
So great was the number of grasshoppers that it was almost impossible to follow any one interesting specimen when seen.
All of the specimens of this species were taken by sweeping the grass.
Melanoplus packardii Scudder.
Emigrant Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 d 1 9.
Mammoth Hot Bull.
94 Colo. Agr.
Exp.
Sta. pp.
43 46.
Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 9 .
Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 2 c 2 9 .
Top of Ensign Peak Salt Lake City Aug. 13 1 .
Five miles south of Salt Lake City in alfalfa field Aug. 13 1   4 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 1722 18 c  25 9.
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 3 9 .
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 and 23 1 c 1 9 .
Fort Morgan Colorado Aug. 24 1 9.
From the above series it is quite evident that representatives of this species from the general vicinity of Colorado Springs are smaller than specimens from Montana Yellowstone Park Utah and eastern Colorado.
Males from IMontana I'tah and the Yellowstone range between 27 and 30 millimeters in length of body while Knob Hill males measure from 22.5 to 26.
The single female from Fort Morgan however is as large as the average Utah female.
Specimens examined from several Nebraska localities are about the same size as the Knob Hill individuals and smaller than the Fort Morgan representative.
In coloration the Montana Utah and Yellowstone individuals are much more strikingly colored than those from Knob Hill the colors being more contrasted and richer.
In a series of six specimens from Boulder and Fort Collins examined in this connection several are brightly colored  one male the only Boulder specimen being as striking as Utah individuals.
In the series listed above seven specimens have wholly glaucous caudal tibiae while the remainder vary from carmine to pale pinkish including some solferino and very pale purplish tibiae while one Salt Lake City has partially glaucous partially solferino and purple tibiae the glaucous pale and limited to the proximal portion of the lateral faces.
The specimens of this species taken at Salt Lake City were almost all from the luxuriant weeds growing along ditches and drains.
Those from Colorado Springs were captmed in the more heavily weed overgrown spots about damp depressions in the prairie.
The insects were active but often clung tenaciously to the weeds in which they hid and it was consequently easy to capture as man as desired.
Melanoplus conspersus Scudder.
Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 2 cJ 1 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1722 39 cJ 18 9 .
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 2 9.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 1719 13 d' 5 9.
Akron Washington Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 9 .
This species in the highly colored individuals is quite handsome and appears rather different from the duller specimens which differ however only in the replacing of the yellow lighter colors with shades of light brown.
In some individuals the caudal tibiae are much more valgate than in others while the inflation of the ventrolateral carina and the adjacent parts of the caudal femora is quite marked in the male.
A rather striking character of the coloration of this species is the continuation of the internal black vertical genicular bar of the caudal femora on the ventral surface but not on the external face.
A blackish patellar spot is present on the caudal tibise of some specimens and not of others.
The specimens here studied have been compared with paratypic material.
This species was one of those which swarmed in the prairie grass.
In certain localities where the ground was somewhat damp it occurred in countless numbers.
Melanoplus alpinus Scudder.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park 6500 feet Aug. 5 1 d.
This specimen has been compared with material from the Big Horn Mountains Wyoming and found to agree in all important characters.
The specimen was taken on the summit of the first hill back of the Mammoth Hot Springs Hotel.
The ground in that locality was bare being but sparsely overgrown with short grasses.
At the time the specimen was not noticed to be a desirable insect and a search for others was consequently not made.
Melanoplus infantilis Scudder.
Livingston Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 
.
Electric Park Co. Colorado Aug. 4 1 9 .
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 at 6215 feet 3 c 1 9  at 6500 feet 2 d
9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 22 1 9 .
Cripple Creek Teller Co. Colorado Aug. 19 1 d' .
The Cripple Creek specimen of this diminutive species is smaller than the Yellowstone males while the lavingston specimen is more grayish than any of the others.
This species was found chiefly in the more hilly regions where vegetation was not luxuriant and it was nowhere abundant.
Melanoplus minor Scudder.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 17 1 d. Manitou Colorado Aug. 23 at 6300 feet 1 d at 6700 feet 8 d 6 9 .
One female from Manitou has the caudal tibise dull purplish red all other specimens having these parts various shades of glaucous.
With one exception all the specimens of this species were takenon the steep hillside near the cogwheel railway station.
Orthoptera were not very abundant but sufficiently plentiful to make collecting among the moimtainloving plants interesting.
Melanoplus diiferentialis Thomai.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 1 .
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 d .
Fort Morgan Morgan Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 9 .
St. Louis Missouri Aug. 27 2 d .
Very few specimens of this species were seen in Colorado.
At St. Louis however the weeds in every vacant field were filled wdth them.
Melanoplus bivittatus Say.
Gray Cliff Sweet Grass Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 c.
Livingston Park Co. Montana Aug. 4 1 5.
Muir Bozeman Tunnel GallatinPark Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 d .
Sappington Gallatin Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 d. Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 1 cJ 1 9 .
Summit foothill of Gallatin range 7000 feet.
Mammoth Hot Springs Aug. 5 1 9 .
Alfalfa field five miles south of Salt Lake City Utah Aug. 13 4 d  3 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 1 d.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 19 and 23 1 d 1 9 .
Fort Morgan Morgan Co. Colorado Aug. 24 4 d  2 9 .
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 9.
This species was more widely distributed than any other taken.
Although nowhere found in swarms it was almost invariably plentiful about the grasses and weeds growing in somewhat damp locations.
DACTYLOTUM Charpentier.
Dactylotum piotum Thomas.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 1 d 5 9  4 nymphs.
Aug. 19 4d'l 9 3 nymphs.
This species was found in a slightly moist grassy meadow.
Considerable time was occupied in searching for specimens and all adults and nymphs met with were taken.
TETTIGONIDffl.
SCTIDDERIA Stl.
Soudderia furcata Brunner.
Manitou Colorado 6900 feet Aug. 23 2 d 3 9 .
Taken in the oak thickets on the hillside.
The species was quite plentiful but took to flight very readily.
ORCHELIMUM Serville.
Orchelimum vulgare Harris.
St. Louis Missouri.
Aug. 27 8 d.
Taken in a vacant lot overgrown with weeds.
The species was abundant everywiere in this locahty.
Orchelimum longipenne Scudder.
Hannibal Missouri Aug. 25 1 d.
This specimen agrees very well with Redtenbacher's description and measurements of his inerme which he proposed to replace longipenne.
Scudder's original description is brief and unsatisfactory.
The brownish marking on the dorsum of the pronotum is rather pale and nearly uniform in color the lateral bars being extremely weak.
This single specimen was taken from high weeds growing on the banks of the Mississippi river.
XIPHIDION Serville.
Xiphidion fasciatum DeGeer.
Akron Washington Co. Colorado Aug 21 1 
.
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 9 .
Xiphidion saltans Scudder.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 1722 4 d 3 9 .
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 19 1 9 .
Roggen Weld Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 c.
The specimen from Roggen is very much paler than the others the normal green on the sides of the head pronotum and pleura being replaced with bluish white.
These insects were all taken among the grasses growing in moist locations.
Xiphidion strictum Scudder.
St. Louis Missomi Aug. 27 2 d  2 9 .
These specimens have been compared with specimens of this species from Nebraska determined by Bruner.
The specimens were taken from a weedy field.
ANABRXJS Haldeman.
Anabrus simplex Haldeman.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 5 c 4 9 .
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 22 2 9 .
These specimens have been examined by' Mr. Caudell and are considered true simplex by him.
This species was extremely common in the sagebrush about the Mammoth Hot Springs The males sit on the highest twigs and keep up a continuous droning zrrrr  somewhat resembling the sounds produced by Orchelimum vulgare.
When alarmed the insects fairly tumble from their perch and hurriedly seek their holes at the plant's roots.
So quickly can these apparently clumsy insects reach their holes that it is only possible to surprise them still in the bush by approaching with the greatest caution.
The insects are exceedingly poor at jumping and are completely helpless when removed from their home bush.
Anabrus coloradus Thomas.
Manitou Colorado Aug. 2.3 4 cJ 2 .
Hillside at 6700 feet Manitou Aug. 16 1 .
Halfway House Pike's Peak Aug. 2 d.
Mountain View Pike's Peak 9700 feet Aug. 20 1 d.
These specimens have also been examined and determined by Mr. Caudell.
These insects were all taken from low bushes growing in or near the woods on the slopes of Pike's Peak.
Their stridulations were quite long.
STEIROXYS Herman.
Steiroxys trilineata Thomas.
Muir Bozeman Tunnel GallatinPark Co. Montana Aug. 12 1 9 .
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 3 9 .
Summit of foothill of Gallatin range.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park 7000 feet Aug. 5 2 9 .
Near Grand Canon Yellowstone Park Aug. 10 2 9 .
Yellowstone Lake Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 2 9 .
Most of these specimens would by the rather uniform dorsal face of their abdomen be referred to pallidipalpus but the authors do not consider the blackish Vshaped maculations of the abdomen constant enough to use for the separation of the two ' 'forms.
This species was somewhat plentiful under sagebrush.
They inhabited holes at the roots of these bushes in which they sought refuge upon the least sign of danger.
They hopped along awkwardly but disappeared in their holes with surprising speed.
EREMOPEDES Scudder.
Eremopedes balli Caudell.
Austin Bluffs Colorado Springs Colorado Aug. 18 1 c.
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 2 9 .
This species was previously known only from Fort Colhns Colorado and Williams and Flagstaff Arizona.
This species was found on the ground among grasses.
It is strictly terrestrial.
GRYLLID.
NEMOBITJS Serville.
Nemobius fasciatus DeGeer.
Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 2 c 2 9.
Geyser crust Old Faithful Upper Geyser Basin Yellowstone Park Aug. 7 1 d 1 9.
Five miles south of Salt Lake City Utah in alfalfa field Aug. 13 1 d.
St. Louis Missouri Aug. 27 1 9 .
All specimens in this series are brachypterous.
GRYLLUS Linnaeus.
Gryllus pennsylvanieus Burmeister.
On geyser formation at the upper end of Mammoth Hot Springs Yellowstone Park Aug. 5 2 9 .
Brush Morgan Co. Colorado Aug. 24 1 9 .
St. Louis Missoiui Aug. 27 1 9 .
The specimens are brachj'pterous.
The specimens taken at the Hot Springs were lying dead on the geyser formation evidently killed by the fumes issuing from a nearby vent hole.
ECANTHUS Serville.
Ecanthus quadripunctatus Beutenmuller.
Knob Hill Colorado Springs Aug. 1822 5 d.
Prairie land Colorado Springs Aug. 18 1 d.
Garden of the Gods Colorado Aug. 17 1 d. The antennal maculations particularly on the proximal joint vary considerably in shape in one specimen approaching fasciatus and in others approaching pini.
A common species on the higher weeds and bushes growing on the prairie.
Their low but continuous stridulating would be heard often many yards away.
