NOTES ON LANCELETS AND LAMPREYS.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The species listed below are all contained in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
BRANCHIOSTOMID^.
Branchiostoma lanceolatum (Pallas).
Mediterranean (Dr. H. E. Evarts); Bay of Naples (Dr. Benjamin Sharp, Dr. H. C. Chapman) ; Italy (Bonaparte Coll., No.
^).
Branchiostoma caribaeum Sundevall.
Off Vieques, Porto Rico (U. S. F. C).
Branchiostoma californiensis Andrews.
Los Angeles Bay, Cal.
(W. N. Lockington).
Epigonichthys leucayanum (Andrews).
Entrance to Castle Harbor, Bermuda Islands (A. G. Gulick).
EPT ATRBTIDuiE .
Polistotrema StOUtii (Lockington).
Pacific Groove on Monterey Bay, Cal.
(Dr. Harold Heath).
Gill-openings 11 on both sides in 2 examples, 12 on both sides in 3, and 12 on the right side and 3 on the left also in 3.
Polistotrema polytrema (Girard).
Chili (Dr. H. C. Chapman).
Eptatretus burgeri (Girard).
Off Misaki, Japan (D. S. Jordan and J.
0.
Snyder).
MYXINID^.
Myxine glutinosa Linnseus.
Lat.
39° 55' 31" N., Long.
70° 39' N., and Bar Harbor, Maine (Dr. H. C. Chapman).
PETROMYZONID^.
OCEANOMYZON gen. nov.
Type OecdHomyzon wilsoni sp.
nov. Supraoral lamina not especially contracted, its 2 converging teeth well separated and distinct.
Infraoral lamina crescentiform and 462 [Dec, spout-like at middle, with denticles obsolete.
Innermost teeth of disk, or those along each side of orifice, bicuspid, large, and similar to those on supraoral lamina.
Differs from both Bathymyzon and Petromyzon in the above combination of characters.
One species in the open Atlantic, possiblyoccurring at some depth.
('iixea^os'^ ocean; //'^w, to suck.)
Oceanomyzon wilsoni sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head to first gill-opening 6f ; depth 13|^; width of head at first gillopening about 2 in its length; snout 1^; width of disk ly"^; interorbital space 2^; height of first dorsal 6^; height of second dorsal 3; Fig.
1.
— Oceanomyzon wilsoni Fowler.
(Type.)
eye 3 in interorbital space; tail measured from vent to end of caudal fin (damaged) about 3 in rest of body.
Body well compressed, rather slender, flexible, tapering backwards from pharynx, with greatest depth a little after last gill-opening.
A median broad obsolete ridge down back from about opposite first gillopening to first dorsal.
Lower surface of body rounded convexly.
About 72 muscular bands between last gill-opening and vent.
Tail from vent conii)rcsse(l, tapering but little and ending in an abru[)t tip (damaged).
Head rather large, broad, and rather depressed more or less both above and below.
Snout broad, its surface convex, and longer than broad by about an eye-diameter.
Eye rather large, lateral, without lids, or covered by skin of head, a little longer than deep, and placed in last fourth of head measured to first gill-opening.
Mouth large, rounded to rather an ellipsoid shape, and its width thus about 1^ in its length.
Disk thus formed furnished with a fringe of short fleshy tentacles, posterior of which are much longest and edges of each all armed with short fringes.
Longest of these posterior flaps about half of horizontal orbital diameter.
Surface of disk studded with rather numerous teeth, much smaller and more or less imbedded in outer series.
Anterior and on inner sides teeth large and all more or less arranged in concentric radiating series.
Inner enlarged teeth on each side as 4 bicuspids and a single antero-median biscuspid.
Cusps of all these about similarly developed.
Posterior inner dental crescent with its margin converging to a small narrow median trenchant edge, where there are 7 small blunt obsolete closely crowded cusp-like points, so as to appear spout-like.
Anterior lingual tooth with a deep median groove, terminating in an incurved point and with 7 scrratures right and 6 left.
Posterior lingual teeth consisting of two L J-shaped patches of teeth with about a dozen serratures in each.
Nostril with a slightly elevated cutaneous rim and placed midway in intcrorbital space opposite front rim of eye.
Interorbital space broadly convex.
Gill-openings 7 on each side of pharynx a trifle inferiorly, and anterior nearer posterior than tip of snout by about half length of latter.
Gillopenings becoming a trifle larger as they progress posteriorly and about equalh' far apart.
Skin smooth, rather soft and thin.
No evident mucous pores.
Origin of first dorsal about midway between tip of caudal (evidently damaged) and first gill-opening, reaching its greatest height about first I in its length and margin rounded.
Second dorsal distinct from first, not connected basally, and inserted a trifle before last fourth in entire length of body, and its greatest height apparently a little after vent.
Caudal apparently damaged and then healed.
After vent a low thin median cutaneous ridge extending back and apparently joining lower caudal lobe.
Vent with a small papilla.
Color in alcohol plumbeous-brown above, more or less uniform, and shading off on sides to paler or grayish-white, and lower surface all more or less entirely whitish with slight leaden or grayish tints.
Lower surface of tail only narrowly pale.
Dorsals and caudal pale brownish.
Disk pale brownish and teeth all dark or wood-brown.
Iris pale slaty.
Length 12|inches.
Type No.
375, A. N. S. P. Atlantic Ocean.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
This is the only example I have seen.
It is apparently related to Petromijzon (Bathymyzon) bairdii Gill, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, p. 254, but differs, according to the account by Goode and Bean, Ocean.
Ichth., 1895, p. 4, in several characters.
In B. bairdii the tips of the two supraoral teeth are said to be barely perceptible, while in the present species they are equally as well developed as either of the adjacent bicuspids.
In B. bairdii the eye is said to equal a fourth of the interorbital space, while in the present species it is about a third.
These differences hardly seem due to age, as the type of B. bairdii and the present species differ in length by only 1^ inches.
Oceanomyzon will then appear as an annectant form between the true lampreys, or Petromyzon, and the bassalian Bathymyzon.
(Named for Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, for many years a generous patron of the Academy.
Among his numerous gifts may be found much valuable material in the collections of fishes.)
Petromyzon marinus Linnaeus.
Italy (Bonaparte Coll.
); Boston, Mass.
(J. H. Slack); Fannel's Branch near Chestertown in Kent Co. (E. G. Vanatta), and Bacon Hill in Cecil Co., Md.
(H. W. Fowler).
Petromyzbn marinus unicolor (De Kay).
Cayuga Lake Inlet, N. Y.
(S. E. Meek).
Ichthyomyzon concolor (Kirtland).
Two examples without data, and one from the Clinch River in Tennessee (E. D. Cope).
Ichthyomyzon castaneus Girard.
Kiskiminitas River, Pa. (E. D. Cope).
I wrongly identified this example in Am.
Nat., 1907, p. 6, as Lampetra irilderi.
The species is therefore now known for the first time in Pennsylvania.
Entosphenus tridentatus (Richardson).
Willamette Valley, Ore. (0.
B. Johnson).
Lampetra fluviatilis (Linnaeus).
Italy (Bonaparte Coll.
); Europe (Smiths.
Inst.).
Lampetra cibaria (Girard).
San Francisco Market, Cal.
(W. N. Lockington).
1907.]
465 Lampetra aepytera (Abbott).
Fig.
2.
Animocoetes aepi/tern Ablxitt, Pror.
.-Vend.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1860, p. 327.
Xo.
Snl, typo.
Ol.io Rivt-r. Dr. Ilildrctli.
Width of head al)out 2^^ in its lcn,<:;tli, measured to first gill-opening; witlth of disk 2|; intcrorbital spaec o; eye al)out 2 in interorl)ital space.
Bt)dy Avell compressed and edges rather convexly rounded, without distinct keels niedianly.
Muscular bands along side of body distinct, of about even width, and a])out 53 between last gill-opening and vent.
Tail well compressed.
Head sul)cylindrical, soon becoming compressed at pharynx.
Snout broadly convex, its width about IJ in its length.
i\Iouth moderately large, disk-like, rounded and circular.
Edges of disk thus formed rather thick, fleshy, and with a fringe of ;:Kari;iiliii;iMiii i; feK;i;c^.
;;, Fig.
2.
— Lampetra oepytera (Abbott).
(Type of Ammocoetes cepytera Abbott.)
short and rather inconspicuous fleshy flai)S. Teeth few, strong and rather large.
If outer teeth occur over surface of disk they are minute, imbedded more or less, or deciduous, as no traces seem evident now-.
Inner teeth well developed on each side as 3 large cusps, and medianly above apparently as 2 smaller cusps.
Posteriorly teeth form a hard crescentic keel, apparently entire.
Tongue apparently toothless, with a median groove separating fleshy margin on either side.
Interorbital space rather narrowly convex.
Skin thin, firm, not very tough, and without evident mucous pores.
Color faded in alcohol uniform dull brown above and becoming a little paler on under surface.
Fins pale brownish, much paler than belly.
Eye dull slaty.
Length 4| inches.
Type of Ammococtcs ccpytcra Abbott.
In Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 328, following the previous 31 identifications of authors, I was led to erroneously identify this specimen with Ammoccetes concolor Kirtland, a species with which it most certainly is not to be identified.
It is in fact entirely identical with Lampetra wilderi Gage, in Jordan and Evermann, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., No, 47, I, 1896, p. 13.
This will necessitate the suppression of the latter name and thus the small black lamprej^ now becomes Lampetra cepytera.
Grosse Isle and Ann Arbor, Mich. (E. D, Cope); Cedar Rapids, la.
(S. E. Meek) and Brook River (Charles Aldrichs), la.
Lampetra branchiale (Linnaeus).
Italy (Bonaparte Coll.).
STUDIES IN NORTH AMERICAN FULG0RID5;.
BY E. P. VAN DUZEE.
The following studies on the Fulgoridce refer solely to material from the United States and Canada now in my collection or which has recently passed through my hands.
The most practical and useful work in this family has been done by Dr. Stal, and even now we must go back to the synoptical tables published in 1866 in \^olume IV of the Hcmiptera Africana for the determination of new or difficult generic forms.
The key to the subfamilies given below is intended only for the forms known to inhabit the United States and Canada, and would be of little use with the complicated Fulgorid faunas of the tropics, especially of the Old World.
Mr. G. W. Kirkaldy has recently^ given us a new arrangement of these subfamilies that in some respects is probably more in accord with the biological relationship of these closely related groups, but my knowledge of the tropical Fulgoridse is much too limited for me to attempt an adjustment of our genera to the groups there laid down; so for the present I prefer to follow Stal's classification as closely as possible.
This paper is not at all monographic in its character, as I touch only on genera and groups I have had occasion to study in working out certain undetermined material in my collection.
I have added a few synoptical tables in the hope that they may assist students in locating some of the new or little known forms.
Key to the Subfamilies of the Fulgorid.e.
Anal area of the wings reticulated, sides of the clypeus carinate.
1,FULG0RIDA.
Anal area of the wings rarely reticulated, clypeus in this case without lateral carinaj, 1.
1.
Posterior tibite armed with a movable spur, 11, DELPHACIDA.
— .
Posterior tibiaj without a movable spur, 2.
2.
Clavus granulated; costa dilated, the costal membrane transversely venose, 8, FLATIDA, — .
Clavus rarely granulated; costa in this case not dilated, .
.
3. '
Hawaiian Sugar Planters' Assoc, Ent.
Bui.
Xo.
Ill, p. 91, 1907.
3.
Veins of the clavus not attaining the apex, but united with thecommissural margin before the apex, 4, — .
Veins of the clavus either continued to the apex or united with the claval suture before the apex, 5.
4.
Apex of the front without an ocellus; elytra reticulated toward their apex, 2, DICTYOPHARIDA.
— .
Apex of the front usually with a third ocellus ; elytra not reticulated apicahy, ' .
.
5, CIXIIDA.
5.
Elytra ample, held vertical with the costal margin meeting below the abdomen, closely reticulated over the whole surface; the costal and apical margins without transverse veins; front continued over on to the superior aspect of the head without a transverse carina, 7, ACANALONIIDA.
— .
Elytra when broad held more horizontal, not meeting below nor closely reticulated over the whole surface, and the front usually distinguished from the vertex by a transverse carina at the apex of the head, 6.
Head broad, with the eyes nearly or quite as wide as the mesonotum ; pronotum without cariniie or with a median carina only, 7.
Head usually much narrower than the mesonotum ; if as wide the pronotum emarginate behind and tricarinate, .... 8.
Pronotum truncated behind or at most with a shallow rounded sinus, 6, ISSIDA.
Pronotum angulately emarginate behind, .
9, RICANIIDA.
Elytra distinctly ampliated within and overlapping beyond the apex of the clavus, 4, ACHILIDA.
Elytra not ampliated within nor overlapping at apex, ... 9.
Elytral membrane strongly differentiated from the corium with numerous simple longitudinal nervures, 3, TROPIDUCHIDA.
— .
Elytral venation simple, without a distinct closely veined membrane; pronotum very short, deeply angularly emarginate behind, 10, DERBIDA.
Subfamily FULGORIDA Stal.
This subfamily is largely tropical in its distribution; but four genera and five species have thus far been reported from our territory.
Doubtless, however, many of the subtropical forms inhabiting Mexico and the West Indies extend their range across our southern border and must eventually be included in our faunal lists.
Subfamily DICTYOPHARIDA Stal.
This subfamily is better represented in our fauna than the preceding; the large genus Scolops being almost precinctive.
Our genera may be distinguished as follows : Elytra as long as the abdomen or longer, 1.
Elytra much abbreviated, not attaining the middle of the abdomen, 5.
1.
\'ertcx produced ami angulated before or frequently forming a long ceplialic process, 2.
— .
\'ert6X transverse, anterior edge feebly arcuated ; elytra in the short-winged form scarcely exceeding the abdomen, convex; anterior femora foliaceous, .... Piiylloscelis Germ.
2.
\'ertex triangularly produced, rarely more than twice as long as its width between the eyes, with a distinct median carina in our species; pronotum deeply and acutely emarginate behind; color usually green with long greenish-hyaline elytra, DiCTYOPHARA Germ.
— .
Vertex produced in a linear cephalic process, without a distinct median carina; elytra shorter, opaque; pronotum truncated or broadly, obtusely emarginate behind, 3.
3.
Cephalic process abruptly contracted before the eyes; pronotum liroadly, obtusely emarginate behind, 4.
— .
Cephalic process not narrowed before the eyes, its sides corrugated ; pronotum truncated behind, .... Scolopsella Ball.
4.
Rather stout insects of some shade of pale green or testaceous, becoming fuscous brown in certain species, but not black, ScoLOPS Schaum.
— .
Slender black insects with smoky translucent elytra; inhabit California, Belonocharis Uhler.
5.
^'ertex flat, triangularly produced, as long as broad and attaining the apex of the head ; pronotum concavely arcuated behind , Orgerius Still.
— .
^'ertex short, transverse, occupying hardly one-half of the superior aspect of the head ; pronotum very obtusely angularly emarginate behind, Loxophora n. gen. Genua DICTYOPHAEA Germ.
Didyophara curviceps Stal I have not yet seen.
The three species known to me may be separated as follows : Vertex fully twice as long as its basal width, median carina extending a little more than halfway to its apex, the three frontal carinse almost parallel throughout their length, .
microrhina Walk.
— .
\'ertex scarcely longer than its width at base, its median carina almost attaining the apex ; frontal carinae more widely separated above, forming a spatulate compartment, 2.
2.
I/ateral carinse of the front meeting in an acute angle on its base, concolorous at that point; plates of the female long and slender, ligulate and curved upward, attaining the apex of the pygofers, lingula Van ]3.
— .
Lateral carinse of the front meeting at the base in an obtuse angle, together with the marginal carinse lined with black around the apex of the head ; plates of the female short, oblique, and oblong in form, not attaining the apex of the pygofers, .
florens Stal.
Diotyophara miororhina Walker.
In this species the vertex is much longer than in the two other species known to me.
It is a little more than twice as long as its basal width, or judging only by the eye it appears much longer; the three frontal carinse are straight and parallel throughout their length, converging to a point on the subacute base.
The plates of the female are ferruginous, ligulate, but not quite as slender as in lingula, and scarcely attain the apex of the green superior pieces.
The elytra are the same pale greenish hyaline with green nervures that we find in lingula, but in some examples they show a distinct brownish tinge toward their apex; the stigma has three or four areoles.
Length 13-14 mm.
I took this species at Woodbine, New Jersey, in August, 1902, and on Staten Island in August, 1904.
Dictyophara florens St&l.
Vertex a little longer than its basal width ; median carina precurrent, on either side of this is a short lateral carina which is scarcely indicated in Mexican specimens.
Front broad, the margins strongly reflexed and a little expanded before the eyes and next the clypeus; three discal carinas very prominent, the lateral almost attaining the clypeal margin, diverging toward the base where they roundedly converge and meet in an obtuse angle, and together with the marginal carinse are marked with a black line.
Carime of the pronotum and mesonotum distinct, the latter converging and meeting before attaining the pronotal margin.
Valve of the female short, transverse, oblique within; plates oblong, rounded at apex, oblique, not attaining the apex of the pygofers.
Sides of the genital segment of the male slightly oblique at apex, the dorsal angle very obtusely rounded.
I took a good series of this species from a coarse grass at Effingham, Kansas, in July, 1900.
They agree in every respect with Mexican material in my collection, except that the base of the vertex is distinctly tricarinate.
This would throw the species into another section in Stal's synopsis {Rio Jan.
Hemi'p., p. 64), but they certainly are not distinct.
Diotyopliara lingula n. sp.
^Closely allied to florens.
Pale green, lighter beneath and tinged with rufous on the tibiae.
Vertex a little more produced, carinse distinct.
Front somewhat broader than in florens, its sides almost rectilinear, the three discal carinas prominent, slightly diverging to a point before the anterior angle of the eyes, then deflected and running straight to the apex w^here they unite in an acute angle ; apically the}run straight to the clj^peal suture.
Rostrum longer than in florens, distinctly surpassing the posterior trochanters.
Proand mesonotum substantially as in florens, but the former a little broader and more truncated between the eyes; the mesonotal cariiiir more parallel, almost continuous with those of the pronotum.
Elytra a little narrower and more slender, with a closer venation at apex.
Waives of the female l()np;er than broad, parallel at base within; plates long and strap-shaped, curved upwards and reaching the apex of the pygofers.
Sides of the genital segment of the male very oblique, extended to a subacute angle dorsally, the plates long, ovate, obtuse at apex and attaining the tip of the pygofers.
Described from one female and two male examples taken by me at Cape ^lay and Anglesea, New Jersey; one male taken at Wildwood, New Jersey, by Prof. C. W. Johnson; one female from Anglesea, New Jersey, received from Prof. J.
B. Smith; and Mrs. Slosson has sent me a specimen from Florida.
This species is very close to florens, but the genital characters are very tlifferent and the apex of the front is more acute with concolorous carinie.
Genus SCOLOPSELLA Ball.
Scolopsella reticulata Ball.
Dr. E. D. Ball has described both this genus and species in the Proceedings of the Biological Soc.
of Wash., Vol.
X\'II1, p. 118, 1905.
1 have recently received from Prof. J.
B. Smith a fine pair of this interesting insect taken in tiie Colorado Desert.
Dr. Ball's type was collected in Arizona i\v Prof. F. H. Snow.
This insect is dark fuscous varied or tessellated all oxer with pale fulvous brown.
It has much the appearance of a Dictyophara, but the long cephalic process is linear or a little spoon-shaped at apex and corrugated along the sides.
I would place the genus in our fauna between Dictyophara and Seal ops.
Genus SCOLOPS Schaum.
Of this peculiar genus sixteen species have been described from our country, not counting pungens of Germar.
which may prove to be identical with some one of our eastern forms described by our later entomologists.
Of these, thirteen species are now represented in my collection.
For a synoptical arrangement they require a more thorough study than I am now able to give them.
Genus PHYLLOSCELIS Cerm.
This genus is readily distinguished b}' its short vertex and foliaceous anterior femora.
Two species have been described: Phyllo8celi8 pallescens Germ.
Descrilif'd from Peiinsvlvania, but it is common in New Jersev.
The macropterous form has a very simple elytral venation; the longitudinal nervures fork near their base and run straight to the apex, before which they are connected by one series of transverse veins; in the center of each areole is a longitudinal carina simulating a suj)ernumerary nervure.
Phyllosoelis atra Germ.
Described from Pennsylvania, and I have taken it in Xew Jersey and Kansas.
In the macropterous form of this species the radial and outer ulnar nervures run straight and unforked to near the apex, the inner ulnar is forked near the apex; thus making three large subapical and seven or eight very small apical areoles.
The elytra are opaque, impunctate, but minutely shagreened, and want the longitudinal carinae found in pallescens.
Dr. Melichar has described a variety, albovenoso.
of this species that seems alwa3's to be found with the typical form.
It is piceous, with pale legs, scutellum and elytral nervures.
Genus ORGEEIUS St&l.
The only North American species of this genus, rhyparus Stal, was described from California.
Dr. Ball and I took this species in numbers at Rifle and Grand Junction, Colorado, in July, 1900.
Xo long-winged form has yet been recorded.
LOXOPHORA n. gen. Related to Orgerius and Phylloscelis.
Head much narrower than the pronotum.
Vertex short, transverse, foveate, not attaining the apex of the head.
Front long and parallel, its base returned over on to the superior aspect of the head, anteriorly with a raised tricarinate linear median compartment.
Clypeus roundingly narrowed to the apex, distinctly tricarinate.
Antennne placed some distance below the lower angle of the eye.
Pronotum short, roundedly produced between the eyes, hind edge broadly angularly emarginate, carinate on the middle line; sides with one carina behind the eye; pectoral flap very large.
Mesonotimi rather small, tricarinate.
Elytra short, truncated, reaching the apex of the second tergal segment, with three longitudinal carinse, the inner forked before the apex, surface with a few reticulations.
Tergum carinate.
Posterior tibiae with four spines in the male.
This genus has the short and broad form of Orgerius and the short vertex of Phylloscelis.
The tricarinate compartment of the front is narrower and the pronotum is shorter and more emarginate than in either of those genera.
I cannot agree with MeUchar in placing Phylloscelis in the Issida.
It is closely allied to Orgerius and Scolops.
In the macropterous examples the claval nervure is united with the commissural and not continued to the apex as in the Issida.
Loxophora transversa n. sp.
Form of Orgerius rhyparus Stal.
Vertex transverse, abor.t half the length of the superior aspect of the head, differentiated from the base of the front by a transverse, slightly angled carina.
Linear tricarinate compartment of the front attaining the apex of the head, not continued on the reflexed superior base, its lateral carinse diverging at apex on the basal suture of the clypeus.
Pronotum scarcely longer than the vertex, a little wider behind the eyes, distinctly produced anteriorly between the eyes.
Mesonotum short, tricarinate, the lateral widely divergent, following the hind edge of the pronotum for half their length and leaving but a small compartment at either lateral angle.
Elytra feebly reticulated between the longitudinal nervures.
Tergum with three broken carinse on either side of the median, one marginal and two intermediate.
Length to tip of the abdomen 4 mm., greatest width 2^ mm.
Color testaceous brown, base of the vertex with a transverse black line; base and sides of the front, pronotum, lateral angles of the mesonotum and the lateral disks of the tergal segments ornamented with large distinct round black punctures.
Face and sides of the chest crossed by a broad creamy white transverse band between two black ones; the lower of these latter is varied with paler, the upper is deep black and on the disk of the inferior pronotal flap is intensified and brilliantly polished; median compartment of the front above the black transverse band black with white carinse.
Anterior edge of the pronotum beneath the eyes black, the lower edge of the inferior flaps whitish.
Disk of the mesonotvmi between the lateral carinae creamy white with the apex black.
Elytra piceous brown with a broad subapical creamy white band.
Tergum black at base of the apical segments, disk of the fourth segment creamy white between the intermediate carinse.
Venter varied with dark brown and creamy white.
Legs brown, anterior and intermediate femora twice banded with pale, posterior tarsi and tiVjial spines blackish.
Described from one male example kindly sent to me by Prof. H. F. Wickham and labelled "Ch.
Ranch, Utah, July 22."
This strikingly marked insect is so distinct from any other described species I do not h&sitate to describe both the genus and species from a single specimen.
Subfamily TROPIDUCHIDA Stal.
Of tills subfamily but two species have heretofore been recorded from our territory: Tangia sponsa Uhler and Monopsis tabida Spin., both from Florida, but doubtless others will yet be found along our southern border.
I describe below a third species which has been masquerading in our collections under a false name.
Genus PELITROPIS n. gen. Closely allied to Tamhinia Stal and differing principally by its wider head, ecarinate front and different elytral venation.
Head with the eyes as wide as the pronotum or nearly so, laminately flattened.
Vertex produced, flat; base angularly emarginate; sides parallel; margins and middle line carinate.
Front almost horizontal, broad, sides parallel, base angularly rounded, disk a little depressed, ecarinate.
Clypeus a little convex, ecarinate.
Pronotum roundedly produced before, deeply angularly emarginate behind; tricarinate, the lateral carinae curved, almost attaining the posterior angles.
Mesonotum tricarinate, the lateral approximate before, the median terminating in a transverse furrow before the apex.
Elytra long and narrow, parallel, with a very slender costal membrane; radial nervures simple; first ulnar forked behind the middle, second at the middle ; claval nervures united before the middle of the commissural margin, the resulting nervure attaining the apex of the clavus; apex of the elytra subangularl}^ rounded ; inner edge of the membrane almost rectilinear, outer curved : base of membrane separated from the corium by a subangulated line of transverse nervures, behind which eight longitudinal nervures run straight and almost parallel to the apex; these are crossed about halfway to the apex by a second series of transverse veinlets ; a few supernumerary veinlets may occur on the disk either side of this second line, and two short longitudinal nervures are interpolated near the inner angle; apical margin with a very narrow areolate or punctate appendix.
Posterior tibiae trispinose.
Tills genus is very near Tamhinia Stal from Ceylon, and in our fauna should be placed near Monopsis and Tangidia.
Pelitropis rotulata n. sp.
Pale green obscurely varied with brown.
Vertex as long as broad, anterior margin obtuselv angled, almost parallel with the posterior; edge carinate all around, median carina distinct, surface depressed with a few lineations, most conspicuous of which are two on the middle and two on either side anteriorly, placed at right angles to and touching the margin.
Cheeks before the eyes narrow, pointed, together with the plcurjp ami sides of the pronotum deeper ^reeu, marked with black above under the lateral carinae of the vertex and with a short parallel line below from the anterior angle of the eye.
Front almost horizontal, its disk oblong, depressed; its length one-third greater than its width; its sides parallel and its base obtuse!}'
angled, the apical angles cut off in line with the sides of the clypeus.
Clypeus an equilateral triangle, the three sides rectilinear.
Ocelli minute, placed next the lower angle of the eye.
Antenna?
placed against the inferior edge of the eye; base green cylindrical, next joint brown, surmounted by a slender brown seta.
Pronotum of about equal length across its whole width, deeply acutely emarginate behind; carinte distinct, the lateral meeting the median before, curved, at first concentric with the anterior edge, almost attaining the prominent posterior angles; sides tricarinate behind the eyes, the inferior carina bovmded above by a black line, and there are a few obscure marks along the disk anteriorly.
Tegulse small with a black disk.
Mesonotum with some obscure marks on the disk.
Elytra pale greenish pellucid, sparseh' dotted with black along the nervures of the clavus and corium; those along the costa drawn out in oblique false veinlets; tip of the membrane a little smoky with some of the transverse veins brownish.
Beneath deeper green, the legs paler with the tips of the tarsal and tibial sjiines and a mark on the apex of the femora exteriorly blackish.
Length 7 mm.
Described from three examples from Florida.
One is a fine fresh specimen kindly given me by Mrs. Slosson, the other two are old specimens changed to a dull testaceous brown.
This species is frequently determined as Monopsis floriche Walker.
Mr. Otto Heidemann has kindly compared this with National Museum material and sends me the names used here for the genus and species.
These were given by Dr. Uhler, who recognized it as distinct from Monopsis, but who it seems never published either the genus or sj^ecies.
Subfamily ACHILIDA Stal.
Genus HELICOPTERA A. and S. (1843), {Elidiptera Spin.
1S39).
This gcmis was first described as EliiUptcrn by Spinola.
and I can see no valid reason for the change made by Amyot and Serville; but as the more recent name has been almost universally adopted I have thought best to retain it here.
Our species may be distinguished as follows: Color black, front white or banded with white 1.
Color brown or grayish, 2.
1.
Vertex about as long as broad : front wliite with a black basal band, opaca Say.
— .
\'ertex twice as long as broad; front white without a basal band, abdomen red, colorata Van D. 2.
Front transversely banded, 3.
— .
Front imicolorous, perhaps shading a little darker toward the base, not banded, 4.
3.
Front brown, base abruptly darker; elytra narrow, parallel, wider toward the apex, indistinctly variegated or irrorated ; pronotum deeply, angularly emarginate behind, .
.
Slossoni Van D. — .
Front creamy white with a fuscous base and brown clypeus ; elytra expanded, the costal edge quite uniformly rounded; surface distinctly variegated ; pronotum obtusely emarginate behind , pallida Say.
4.
Vertex as long as broad; pronotum strongly produced, truncated between the eyes; elytra brown, very obsoletely variegated; front unicolorous, pale testaceous brown; venter blackish fuscous, septentrionalis Prov.
— .
Vertex distinctly broader than long; pronotum less produced, rounded before between the eyes; front irrorate, shading to darker at base; elytra variegated, .
.
.
variegata Van D. Helicoptera vestita Prov.
is evidently a sj^nonym of opaca Say.
Monopsis floridw and fusca Walker are placed by Stal in Helicoptera, but they are unknown to me in nature.
Helicoptera opaoa Say.
This large and broad species is black with the elytra more brownish and opaque, the areoles closely and minutely dotted with pale and with a pale stigmatal spot; the face is deep black with a broad transverse band of yellowish white covering the front to the superior line of the eyes.
This pale band is extended more narrowly along the sides of the pleurae.
Antennae pale fulvous.
This seems to be a rare and local form.
I took one example at Phoenicia, in the Catskills, in August, 1904, and Mr. John D. Evans, of Trenton, Ontario, has sent me another for study that he took in County Hastings, Ontario.
Mr. Evans' specimen, which is a male, has the pronotum and disk of the vertex obscurely irrorate with pale.
I have seen one or two additional specimens in other collections.
Helicoptera colorata n. sp.
Allied to opaca, but smaller and narrower with a strongly produced vertex.
Black, front and vertex white, venter sanguineous.
Vertex long, moderately narrowed toward its rounded apex, its length a little more than twice its width at base; median line almost obsolete, disk soiled white, margins strongly reflexed, black.
Front long, much narrowed toward the base, precurrent median carinas feeble; reflexed margins expanded tow^ards the base of the clypeus; white wnth the margins black beyoiul the apical angle of the eyes; sides of the head to the lower line of the eyes and the clypeus black; antennal base soiled yellowish white like the vertex.
Pronotum rather obtnsely angnlarly einarginate behind, strongly produced before, the narrow apex truncated before between the eyes; carinae strong, the lateral straight and almost reaching the hind margin; color black, a little piceous between the carina?, the dcflexcd sides edged with white below.
]\Iesonotum black, opaque, the carinae distinct at base, becoming obsolete, the lateral at the middle, the median beyond the middle; metanotum apparently rufous.
Elytra narrow, but little expanded at base, appendix broad ; color black, nervures mostly pale, areoles except along the costa and on the appendix dotted with pale, mostly in a single row in each areole; stigma concolorous.
Wings deep smoky brown with fuscous nervures.
Sternum black anteriorly, pale posteriorly and about the coxae; propleurac edged with white above.
Anterior and intermediate legs black, posterior brown.
Abdomen sanguineous, perhaps somewhat fuscous above; apical pieces paler edged with black.
Sides of the genital segment of the female feebly arcuated, not at all sinuated.
Length 8 mm.
; width across the elytra scant 3 mm.
Described from one female example swept by me from bushes on a wooded hillside at Gowanda, New York, August 7, 1907.
This is a beautiful addition to our Fulgorid fauna.
Its strongly produced head, white front, sanguineous abdomen and narrower and blacker elytra, wanting the stigmatal spots, will at once distinguish this from opaca.
The elongated head seems to ally this species with genus Pseudohelicoptera Fowler, but by itself does not seem to warrant the establishment of a separate genus.
Fowler's species probably is not congeneric with this.
Heliooptera pallida Say.
Mrs. Slosson has sent me specimens of this species and septcntrionalis Prov.
from the White Mountains that show them to be sufHciently distinct.
Pallida is proportionately broader than any of our other described species; the vertex is about as long as broad, being longer than in variegata; the elytra are very pale brown, closely irrorated and reticulated with pale, these colors being about evenly divided; there are a few larger brown spots, about two on the disk of the corium and three toward the apex, the latter somewhat broken by the pale nervures.
The front is pale with its base abruptly, and the clypeus brown.
This pale color is extended along the sides of the pleurae and is bounded above with black.
Abdomen mostly fuscous; metanotum rufous.
Last ventral segment of the female sinuated, subangulated on either side; genital segment quite deeply notched toward its ventral aspect.
Length 9 mm.
; width across the elytra about 4 mm.
Helicoptera septentrionalis Prov.
A little narrower than pallida with the elytra less expanded, the vertex shorter and the pronotum more deeply angularly emarginate.
Front uniformly pale testaceous brown; pleurae marked as in pallida.
Elytra more uniformly colored, the claval and costal nervures distinctly alternated; apical field with three brown points and there are indications of three minute ones along the costal areole; abdomen blackish, pale at tip.
Last ventral segment of the female feebly sinuated, rounded on either side, edge of the genital segment truncated, scarcely if at all sinuated.
Length S mm., width across the elytra scant 4 mm.
This species is very close to pallida, and without the two for direct comparison it would be difficult to distinguish satisfactorily between them.
They are sufficiently distinct, however, and I feel sure that I have rightly identified them here.
Helicoptera slossoni n. sp.
Allied to variegata, but proportionately much narrower and with a slightly longer vertex.
Vertex about as long as the median line of the pronotum.
Front narrower at base which is rounded, as is the apex of the vertex; its sides straight in the female, slightly arcuated in the male ; its color ferruginous brown in the female, yellowish in the male, scarcely irrorate, abruptly darker at base.
Produced anterior margin of the pronotum subtruncated between the eyes ; lateral carinas almost straight, a little curved anteriorly; median carinse short, basal; carina?
of the mesonotum obsolete posteriorly.
Vertex, pronotum and mesonotum fuscous brown, minutely irrorated with pale; deflexed sides of the pronotum deep black edged with white in the male and ferruginous yellow in the female; disk of the mesonotum darker with the extreme tip pale.
Elytra fuscous brown quite regularly irrorated with paler, and marked in the female with a fuscous spot on the stigma and several round points on the disk, arranged three in a row on the costal areole, three clustered in the apical field and two on the disk of the corium at about the middle.
Wings smoky with fuscous nervures.
Lower surface and legs in the female pale brownish varied with flavous on the sides of the pleural pieces, the abdomen fuscous, pale on the apex and in places on the edges of the segments; in the male the lower surface becomes yellowish, with the pleural pieces edged with black above and the abdomen more or less fuscous.
Sides of the genital segment of the female ol)li(iuely truiioatccl, scarcely simiuted.
Length S nun., wiilth across the elytra 3 nmi.
Described from one pair taken on Mt.
Washinfjton by Mrs. Annie Trumbull Slosson.
It affords me pleasure to dedicate tiiis interesting species to Mrs. Slosson as a slight recognition oi licr valuable services to entomology in bringing to light so many new and rare insects.
This species may readily be recognized by its uniformly dark color, slender form and narrow elytra witii the appendix but slightly developed.
Helicoptera variegata n. sp.
Larger than pallida and opaca; grayish varied with pale fuscous brown.
\'ertex shorter than in any other Helicoptera known to me, about the length of the eye in its greatest superior diameter, regularly rounded before, disk pale with a longitudinal furrow, edge reflexed, darker.
Front narrow, contracted l)asally, the sides almost sinuated, distinctly tricarinate and with the clypeus pale brownish shading to darker basally and along the carinae, more or less distinctly irrorated with i)ale; clypeal suture quite strongly angulated.
Pronotum shorter and more deeply emarginate than in pallida, the produced anterior margin rounded between the eyes, lateral carinse broadly rounded outwardly, median carina feeble but almost attaining the anterior margin in one example, upper surface of the pronotum brown or ferruginous brown, closely irrorated with pale, below the carinate edge deep black, bordered with white.
Mesonotum brown or ferruginous, irrorated with pale, becoming darker before the pale apex and marked with a darker line without the base of the lateral carinse close to the basal angles.
These carina feeble, especially the median.
Elytra brown varied with gray patches, most conspicuous of which is one along the base of the inner claval area, about four very irregular and indefinite ones along the median line of the coriiun and another adjoining the blackish apex of the clavus; the dark areas irrorate with pale in places and the nervures more or less irrorated, those at the apex pale; about three fuscous points in the costal area and three others approximate in the apical field.
Wings smoky, darker toward their apex, the nervures fuscous.
Beneath testaceous varied with pale brown; disk of the ventral segments sometimes fuscous.
Legs pale brown with the knees still paler.
Sides of the genital segment of the female quite deeply angularly emarginate.
Length 8 to 10 mm.
; width across the elytra about 4 mm.
Described from one female example taken by Mr. W. Metcalf at Ottawa, Ontario, and a pair somewhat longer and paler taken by Mrs. Slosson at Franconia, New Hampshire.
Airs.
Slosson has also sent me a male taken at Richmond, Virginia, which I believe belongs to this species.
In this the elytra are pale brown, irrorated but scarcely variegated with gray.
This is the species most commonly received from correspondents, and I have formerly determined it as septentrionalis Prov., but a fine series of Helicoptcras recently received from Mrs. Slosson has enabled me to correct this determination.
Genus CATONIA Uhler.
This genus was founded by Dr. Uhler in 1895 {Proc.
Zool.
Soc, p. 61) .
It is certainly very close to Plcctoderes Spinola, which is still unknown to me in nature, but it has a somewhat different aspect and undoul^tedly is sufficiently distinct.
I would distinguish it from Hdicoptera by its narrower, more elongated form and the much shorter pronotum, which forms a rounded flap behind the eyes and not a longitudinal compartment as in Helicoptera.
Dr. Uhler states that the posterior tibia?
are unarmed, but this is not strictly true of any of the species known to me.
All, including intricata, the type species, have a minute spine placed much nearer the base than in Helicoptera, and in fusca there are two such spines.
In Catonia the basal joint of the antennse is almost globular, while in all the Helicopteras known to me this joint is much more elongated.
The three species of Helicoptera described by Fowler in the Biologia evidently belong to this genus.
Catonia cinctifrons Fitch is unknown to me, l)ut our other seven species may be separated as follows : Front conspicuously transversely banded, 1 Front not distinctly banded, 4.
1.
Hind tibiffi with two small spines, elytra uniformly fuscous dotted with pale; inhabits California, fusca Van D. — .
Hind tibife unispinose, 2.
2.
Elytra unicolorous, nervures impunctate, .
impu7ictata Fitch.
— .
Elytra variegated, nervures punctate, 3.
3.
Larger, front strongly narrowed basally, this base scarcely banded, imva Say.
— .
Smaller, front not greatly narrowed basally, transverse bands two, conspicuous, picta Van D. 4.
Larger, elytral areoles with numerous incomplete transverse veinlets, apex of mesonotum with a pair of ocellated black points, grisea Van D. — .
Smaller, elytra maculated, without reticulating veinlets, .
.
5.
5.
Vertex and base of the front broader; elytral areoles almost immaculate, with a whitish transverse band indicated across the apical third of the clavus, pumila Van D. — .
Vortex and ba'^c of tlic froT)t iiarrower; clytral arcoles more varieiiated and minutely dotted with pale in the darker areas; inhabits the West Indies, iuiricala Uhler.
Catonia fusca n. s<i'.
Form and size of grisea; fuscous brown; elytra unicolorous dotted with white; front banded.
Length 5\ mm.
Vertex short, transverse, brown with pale carina?, anterior and posterior margins parallel, hardly arcuated.
Front about as in im'punctaia ; rather broad and but little narrowed basally, the carinae strong, the marginal well elevated ; whitish tinged with fulvous brown on the base and toward the apex of the clypeus ; crossed by two broad black bands; margins scarcely dotted toward their base.
Antennae brown with their seta black.
Pronotum blackish with pale carinse, the lateral concentric as in all the species know^n to me, with about three branches to the hind margin.
Mesonotum fulvous with the three straight parallel carina^ and extreme apex pale, the carinse margined with fuscous.
Elytra uniformly smoky brown, a little paler toward the margins, nervures pale toward the apex, areoles dotted with pale.
Abdomen with pale segmental margins; pleural pieces fuscous varied with pale.
Legs pale brown, becoming a little darker at the knees.
Described from one female specimen collected in San Mateo County, California, by a Mr. Coleman.
Catonia nava Say.
This is a somewhat larger and darker species than grisea, with the front strongly narrowed basally; base brown minutely irrorated with paler, followed by a white transverse median band and then a blackish band next the base of the pale clypeus; the marginal carinse dotted with pale.
Mesonotum tinged with fulvous with a large blackish central cloud.
The elytra quite strongly variegated and dotted on the nervures.
I have taken this species at Hamburg and Gowanda, New York, and have seen others from the Eastern States.
Catonia cinctifrons Fitch.
I have not yet seen anything that just answers to the description given by Fitch, but this seems to be a good species very near to iiava and is perhaps Say's variety "a" of that species.
Catonia picta n. sp.
Allied to nava and cinctifrons.
Face white with two black bands; mesonotum rufopiceous; elytra obscurely banded.
Length 5^ mm.
Front broad, but slightly narrowed at base ; clypeus short, conical, and with the front tricarinate,the lateral carinae marginal, strongly elevated.
32 Vertex short, broader than long, but feebly advanced before the eyes, obtusely angled before; margins and middle line carinate.
Pronotum very short, almost linear, tricarinate.
Mesonotum much longer than the pronotum and vertex together, tricarinate, the lateral carinse rectilinear, very slightly diverging posteriorly.
Color testaceous gray; mesonotum and a large costal spot or indistinct transverse band on the basal third of the elytra obscure rufopiceous, behind this dark band is a broad indefinite whitish vitta; nervures mostly dotted, the dots on the costa and commissure larger; commissure with four black points, two on either margin of the whitish band; ti]) of the scutellum, a chain of points on the pronotum and a few on the vertex whitish.
Beneath pale fulvous.
Front deep black with a broad median transverse band of ivory white; the marginal carina?
dotted with white and an indefinite whitish band crosses the base of the clypeus.
Tip of the rostrum and tarsal spines black; knees discolored.
Described from one example taken at Lakehurst, New Jersey, August 18, and kindly sent to me for study by Prof. John B. Smith.
This may be the variety "a" of Say's 7iava, although that is more likely to be the cinctifrons of Fitch, but it is a very distinct species j Its smaller size, strongly marked front, and less maculated elytra, showing obscure transverse banding, will distinguish it.
Catonia impunctata Fitch.
This species, like cinctifrons, was described by Fitch as a Cixius.
It is a little smaller than 7iava with the elytra testaceous brown, subhyaline, almost immaculate, with the nervures touched with white in places, indicating a transverse band near the middle and on the base of the apical areoles.
Fitch seems to have described the male and included the female as a variety.
The female has the whole basal portion of the face black, with the black marks on the vertex and pronotum scarcely indicated.
I have taken this species at Phoenicia in the Catskills, and have received specimens from Pennsylvania and elsewhere in the Middle States.
The Myndus impunctatus of my Buffalo list was sordidipennis and not the present species.
Catonia grisea n. sp.
Nearest to intricata Uhler, but a little larger and paler; elytra gray varied with white; front pale feebly maculated; mesonotum brown with two black points posteriorly.
Length 6-7 mm.
Front elongated, quite strongly narrowed basally with the sides almost straight and the carinse strong; pale flavous, in the female obscurely irroratcil on the base of the front and dypeus leaving a paler intermediate bantl, indicated on the marginal cariiue by two brownish spots.
Vertex almost square, feebly angled anteriorly, projecting about half its length before the eyes, the lateral fova?
marked wdth a dark point.
Pronotum shorter than the vertex, rather sharply angled and marked with a blackish line beneath the eye.
Mesonotum pale, (|uite strongly maculated with brown in the female, with pale carinae and a black jioint jiosteriorly placed in a pale annulus within the lateral cariiur.
I^lytra whitish tinged with smoky especially toward their tips; the nervures white, the areoles with numerous imperfect transverse white veinlets; on the costa are a few larger brown spots.
Beneath pale, the abdomen fuscous with the segments edged with pale.
Described from a series of both sexes taken at Niagara Falls, Hamburg and Gow^anda, New York, and one female taken on basswood at Ottawa.
Ont., by Mr. W. Metcalfe.
This is our most abundant northern species of Catonia.
It varies some in the extent of maculation on the vertex, pronotum and mesonotum.
but the pair of ocellated points near the tip of the scutellimi seems to be a j)crsistent character.
Catonia pumila n. sp.
Allied to griseo, but much smaller and wanting the ocellated points before the apex of the scutelluni.
Length 4 nun.
Vertex longer and iiai'rower than in grisen, projecting for more than half its length before the eyes, subangularly roimded before.
Front proportionate!}'
a little broader and sliorter than in grisea; carinae distinct, but the marginal not as strongly elevated as in its ally.
Color yellowish testaceous tinged Avith fulvous on the vertex and scutellum and with the carince slightly paler.
Pronotum pale obscurely dotted with brown; front nearly immaculate, the marginal carinse obscurely dotted ; eyes and antermal setie black.
Elytra obscure brownish hyaline becoming fulvous along the costa; a whitish transverse band is indicated before the apex of the clavus, and the apex of the corium and some vague areas along the costa are paler; apical nervure margined within by a fuscous vitta which is broken by the pale veins; all the nervures more or less distinctly dotted with pale.
As in the allied species the wings are smoky hyaline with strong fuscous nervures.
Anterior and intermediate tibiic banded.
Described from one pair taken by me at Milan, Ohio, September 1, 1005, and another male which I took in August, 1904, at Jamaica, Long Island.
This latter has the edges of the ventral segments touched with sanguineous.
This is a neat little species recognizable by its small size and unmarked front.
Catonia intricata Uhler.
This is a small species very close to pumila, but the front is more narrowed basally, pale, closely dotted with brown,, and the elytra are more variegated and minutely dotted with pale, and in some examples are quite decidedly tinged with rufous toward the costa.
Dr. Uhler described this species from the Island of St. Vincent.
I took it in Jamaica and Prof. Ball has received it from Hayti.
So far it has not been reported from the United States, but it is quite likely to be found in southern Florida.
Subfamily CIXIIDA Stal.
This subfamily has a wide distribution in the temperate regions of the world.
Six genera and thirty-five species are now known from this country.
Monorachis Uhler is too insufficiently known to me to be included in this table.
Our other genera may be separated as follows : Posteriortibiaearmed with two or three spines, 1.
Posterior tibise unarmed, 2.
1.
Base of the head broadly sinuated; mesonotum tricarinate, Cixius Latr.
— .
Base of the head angulate-emarginate; mesonotum normally 5carinate, Oliarus Stal.
2.
Eyes sinuated anteriorly, antennse inserted before this sinus, Bothriocera Burm.
— Eyes sinuated inferiorly, or entire, antennce inserted below the eyes, 3.
3.
Base of the head truncated ; vertex very narrow, its sides parallel or wider anteriorly; front and clypeus elongated, .CEdeus StaL — .
Base of the head subsinuated ; vertex broader, narrowed anterio ly ; front and clypeus together elliptical, .
.
.
Myndus Stal.
Genus MONORACHIS T'hler.
Monoracliis sordulentus Uhler.
Mrs. Slosson has very kindly sent me for study a type specimen of this species which unfortunately is without a head.
As nearly as I can judge from the fragment remaining, I believe this is the species afterward described by Canon Fowler as Metabrixia aspersa from Mexico and Vera Cruz.
This may sink the genus Metabrixia as a synonym of Monorachis, although this is by no means certain, as Canon Fowler says, "This species differs considerably from the rest and may belong to another genus."
Mrs. Slosson's specimen seems to be of a shortwinged form.
Genus BOTHRIOCERA Burm.
Bothriocera tinealis Burm.
After a careful study of further material received from Mrs. Slosson and others.
1 am euiiviuced that the species found tiiroughout the West Indies and Florida and listed by nie as B. Signoreti in my paper on .laniaican lleniiptera is really Adana Wcsttcoodi Stal, which Canon i'owler places as a synonym of Bolhrioccra iincaUs Burra.
He states that Siijnordi may be known by its having the apex of the elytra broadl}' hhickish, while in iinadis it is nu;re or less invaded with liyaline.
Bothriecera undata 1 abi.
Described from tlie West Indies.
Mi's.
Slosson has sent me a specimen captunnl by hcv at Lake Worth, Morida.
Genus OLIARUS StM.
Of this cosmopolitan genus nine species have been recorded from North America, of which six are now represented in my collection.
Here we find the vertex longer than in Cixius, almost quadrangular, with the base angularly emarginate.
Generally there are five distinct carinai on the mesonotum.
The following artificial key will assist in placing the species known to me : Elytra pellucid or nearly so, sometimes banded or mottled with brown, 1.
Elytra deep smoky brown, at least toward the apex, .... 4.
1.
Elytral nervures distinctly punctate, 2.
— .
Elytra hyaline or a little dusky at apex where the nerviu-es are then heavy and brown, nervures impunctate or nearly so, .
5.
2.
Front broad, brown with an ivory white area on either margin next the base of the clypeiis; elytra hyaline with the stigma and nervures toward their apex brown, .
.
.
aridus Ball.
— .
Front unicolorous, the clyjjeus sometimes a little paler, .
.
3.
3.
Clypeus scarcely paler than the front; elytra le.ss maculated, the stigma distinct!
\^ longer than broad, .
.
.
vicarius Walk.
— .
Clypeus generally j^aler than the front; elytra more maculated or generally transversely banded, stigma subquadrate, 5-lineatus Say.
4.
Elytra deoji smoky brown, the slender costa and stigma pale, cinnamomeiis Prov.
— .
Elytra smoky at apex l^eyond the stigma, base usually subhyaline, size smaller, humilis Say.
5.
Length S mm., elytra entirely pellucid with fuscous nervures, 'stigma, and basal band, hyalinus Yan D. — .
Length 4-5 mm., elytra nearly hyaline or somewhat infuscated at apex, without a basal band, complectus Ball.
The following Xortli American species of Oliarus are still unknown to me: 0. franciscanus StSl, Frega Eugenes Resa.
Ins., p. 273, 1859.
California.
Seems to be near aridiis Ball.
0. sementinus Ball, Can.
Ent., xxxiv, p. 152, 1902.
Colorado.
A small robust species.
0.
'pimn Kirk., Haw.
Sugar Plant.
Assoc, Bui.
iv, p. 62, 1907.
Arizona.
1.
Oliarus vicarius Walker.
This species is very close to 5-1 i neat us Say.
I separate it by its slightly larger size, less strongly maculatetl elytra, longer and narrower stigma and pellucid wings.
The general color is paler, the rostrum is considerabh^ longer, nearly or quite attaining th§ hind edge of the sixth abdominal segment; and the intermediate carinse of the mesonotum become evanescent or join the median carina some distance from the hind margin of the pronotum.
I took an example of this species at Atlanta, Georgia, in May, 1899, and have seen one pair taken by Mrs. Slosson at Jacksonville and Omond, Florida.
2.
Oliarus quinquelineatus Say.
This is our most ab\mdant and widely distri))uted species.
I took a fine series at Boulder, Colorado, in July, 1903, and have also taken it about Buffalo, New York, and at Cape May, New Jersey, and Atlanta, Georgia.
Prof. Osborn has sent me specimens from Ohio, and I have examined material from other localities as far south as Florida.
0.
5-lineatns is proportionateh' broader and shorter than vicarius, with heavier elytral maculations, a blacker and nearly quadrate stigma and a distinctly broader front.
The general color is darker, almost a piceous brown on the head and thorax, and the wings are quite deeply infuscated toward their apex.
The male genitalia are quite distinct from that of vicarius; the ventral sinus on the genital segment is deeper with the median tooth pale yellowish and slender, reaching to the line of the rounded lateral lobes ; the plates are narrow and abruptly bent and but little widened at apex, and the pygofers are expanded and rounded at apex and considerably longer than the plates, forming a concave dome beyond their tips.
In vicarius the median tooth does not attain the line of the lateral lobes of the genital segment; the expanded apex of the plates are broader and more rounded and strongly reflexed, and the pygofers are narrower, flatter at apex, and but little surpass the tip of the plates.
3.
Oliarus aridus Ball.
A western form of which I have before me only Colorado specimens.
It is of about the size of the preceding species and may be distinguished by its broader vertex, the somewhat indefinite pale spots on the apex of the front and the whitish-hyaline elytra with minutely dotted nervures and slender stifjnia.
The cross veins toward the apex of the elytra are marked with fuscous, the winj^s are milky hyaline with brown nervures and are unclouded, and the intermediate carina of the mesonotum are obsolete anteriorly in my specimeas.
4.
Oliarus hyalinns n. sp.
Most closely related to humeralis Fowler.
Mesonotum tricarinate; elytra hyaline, with fuscous nervures, stigma, basal band and commissural nervure.
Length 8 mm.
Vertex long and narrow, about as in complcctus Ball; blackish fuscous with fulvous carinse and a whitish line either side next the inner margin of the eye.
Front strongly widened below; dark castaneous with pale carinse and a pale area on either side next the clypeal margin.
Clypeus blackish fuscous with pale carina?.
Pronotum very short, linear, acutely emarginate behind almost to the anterior margin ; soiled yellowish clouded with fuscous at the sid&s and under the eyes.
Tegulce pale clouded on their di.sks.
Mesonotum dark eastaneous; intermediate carinse obsolete or very feebly indicated anteriorly.
Elytra long and narrow^ clear hyaline with the nervures brown, under a lens very obscurely and minutely punctate ; marginal and transverse nervures heavier; stigma long and narrow, fascous, darker inwardly and bounded by a whitish nervure anteriorly; base marked by a transverse fuscous band across the apex of the scutellum which scarcely attains the costal margin; claval suture pale; commissural nervure fuscous, heavier for a space on the middle, then whitish to the apex of the clavus.
Beneath blackish fuscoas, paler on the mesoand metapleura and edges of the abdominal segments.
Legs brownish testaceous, darker on the femora.
Ventral sinus of the male genital segment deep, with a short median tooth; its sides obliquely rounded; plates long, but little separated at base; expanded apical plate as long as the slender base, roundedly triangular, inner edges approximate, grooved ; pygofers just as long as the plates and concentric with them at their rounded apex.
Described from one male example taken by Mrs. Annie Trumbull Slosson at Biscayne Bay, Florida.
This species is somewhat anomalous in genus Oliarus by its narrow pellucid elytra, practically impunctate nervures and tricarinate mesonotum, in all which characters it agrees most closely with compleciiis Ball.
It has however the short pronotum, angularly emarginate hind margin of the vertex and frontal ocellus of Oliarus, in which genus I now place it.
It closely resembles Fowler's figure of 0. humeralis (Biologia, pi.
x, fig.
18), but the basal band is narrower and the elytra are pellucid, not milky-hyaline, and the nervures are fuscous.
I believe it quite distinct.
5.
Oliarus complectus Ball.
This small .species has much the aspect of CEcleus dcccns Stal, ])ut the vertex narrows anteriorly not posteriorly as in (Ecleus, and the hind edge is angularly emarginate.
In complectus the intermediate mesonotal carinse are almost obsolete in some specimens.
I have taken this species at Effingham, Kansas, Washington, D. C, Niagara Falls and at other localities about Buffalo.
The eastern specimens differ from those from Kansas in having the wings quite strongly infuscated toward their apex, but the genital and other characters seem to be substantially the same.
This is the only species known to me in which the frontal ocellus is represented only by a scar.
6.
Oliarus cinnamomeus Prov.
This is very distinct from any other species known to me.
It can at once be distinguished by its fuscous elytra with the slender costa and the stigma whitish.
Provancher's type came from Vancouver Island ; Mrs. Slosson has taken it in the White Mountains, and Prof. W. E. Britton has sent me three examples taken at Colbrooke, Connecticut.
It seems to be a rare and local northern form.
7.
Oliarus humilis Say.
This our most abundant northern species is sufficiently distinct from any other.
It varies considerably in size and depth of coloring.
Genus CIXIUS Latr.
Elytra black or nearly so ; commissural margin and the costa slenderly pale; body black above with a broad pale vitta covering the vertex and middle line of the proand mesonotum, dorsalis ^^an D. Elytra hyaline or slightly enfumed, frequently more or less banded or maculated with fuscous; nervures with brown punctures, .
1.
1.
A'ertex distinctly transverse, at most obtusely angled before; elytra proportionately broader; outer sector of the corium forked as near to or nearer the base than is the inner; maculation transverse, 2.
— .
Vertex a little longer than broad, triangular, its apex subacute; elytra proportionately narrower; outer sector of the corium forked farther from the base than is the inner; maculation longitudinal, cuUns Ball.
2.
Vertex broad triangular, obtuse or subacute before, its apex very nearly attaining the apex of the front and almost bisecting the transverse compartment at the apex of the head; front black with the carinse pale; plates and stiles of the male about equalling the pygofers, stigmatus Say.
— .
Vertex short, transverse, rounded before; transverse compartment at the apex of the head much less narrowed, divided by a median carina, 3.
3.
Larger, G-7 mm.
; clypeus paler tliaii flio front; plates and stiles of the male distinctly shorter tlian the i)y,<i;ofers, .... 4.
— .
Smaller, 5 mm.
; face entirely black Avith pale carina; plates and stiles of the male as lonsi; as the pygofers, .
colccpeum Fitch.
4.
Len<Tth 7 mm.
; clypeus al^yuptly paler, at base strongly angled; plates of the male less than half the length of the pygofers; elytra generally quite strongly maculated, their base more or less distinctly fuscous, basalis Van D. — .
Length mm.
; clypeus less strongly differentiated; plates more than half the length of the pygofers; elytra almost immaculate or Avith some small broken spots beyond the middle, base not darker jnJii Fitch.
Cixius basalis n. sp.
Size and general aspect of Oliarus 5-lineatus.
but readily distinguished by the three mesonotal carinse.
Vertex short transverse, arcuated, its anterior and posterior margins about parallel, its outer angles rounded, median carina not pronounced; transverse compartment at the apex of the head but slightly narrowed at center.
Front proportionately longer than in pi7ii.
but shorter than in stigmatus; black with the strong carina fulvous ; clypeus abruptly fulvous, its apex and the tylus blackish, basal margin strongl}^ angled.
Pronotum linear and deeph^ angled as in the allied species; soiled fulvous-yellow as are the carinte of the vertex and the tegulse; mesonotum deep black with a pale point at the posterior end of each carina.
Elytra abruptly widened near the base, then almost parallel to the stigma; whitish hyaline, nervures white conspicuously dotted with black, costal stronger with about 16 larger dots before the stigma, a few of which are grouped where the transverse band touches the margin; the radial forked nearer the base than is the second ulnar.
In fully marked specimens the base of the elytra are deep fuscous or black to behind the tip of the scutellum; a broken linear transverse band crosses about halfway to the stigma and another at the stigma; sometimes there is a costal spot between these bands, and the transverse nervures at the base of the apical areoles are heavily brown.
Frequently the base is but slightly obscured and the anterior band and costal spots or all the markings are wanting or feebly indicated.
Beneath black varied with soiled yellow; legs pale with the femora more or less fuscous.
Abdomen black with the narrow edges of the segments and base of the genital pieces of the female pale; in the male the plates, inferior surface of the pygofers at base and a dot at each incism-e on the edge of the abdomen is pale.
Plates of the male short, slender at base, abruptly expanded above in a transverse oblique plate lying against the slightly oblique apical margin of the genital segment; pygofers extending for more than half their length beyond the plates, estimating from the ventral notch of the genital segments.
Length 7 mm.
Described from twelve examples taken by me at Hamburg and Gowanda, New York; several taken af Quinze Lake, P. Q., by Mr. W. J. Palmer, of Buffalo, and one strongly marked female taken at Como, P. Q., by Mr. R. M. Moore.
This our largest Cixius seems to be distinctively a northern form.
Like the closely allied stigmatiis, pini and coloepeum, it varies greatly in the extent of elytral maculation.
These species are very distinct in the characters of the male genitalia, but it is difficult to so describe them that they may be readily recognized.
I feel tolerably certain of my determination of Say's stigmatus, but have had to place the two species of Fitch more by size and general appearance, and these can so stand until more definitely located by comparison with the types, if they still exist.
Cixius stigmatus Say.
In this species and coloepeum the male plates are not shorter than the pygofers.
In stigmatus the sides of the genital segment are short and rounded, not oblique, the ventral notch broad and shallow, and the expanded apex of the plates are broad and rounded.
Cixius stigmatus seems to be more widely distributed than our other species.
I have taken it about Buffalo, New York, and have received others from Rhode Island, and j\Ir.
Palmer has taken it in numbers along the trail from Temagami, Ontario, to Quinze Lake, Quebec.
Cizius pini Fitch.
In this species as in basalis the male plates are much shorter than the pygofers, bvit here they reach somewhat beyond their middle, reconning from the ventral notch of the genital segment.
The sides of this segment are much more oblique than in basalis, and the expanded apices of the plates are broader and more rounded and compressed about the pygofers.
This species I have taken at Buffalo, Hamburg, Golden and Lake Placid, New York, and Denver, Colorado.
Cixius coloepeum Fitch.
I have placed here a small species with more regularly maculated elytra.
At least they are so in the only specimens I have seen, but doubtless this character is as variable as in the allied species.
Here the sides of the male genital segment are rounded, a little oblique, with a broad shallow ventral notch.
In all our species there is a small median tooth at the apex of this ventral notch.
In coloepeum the maleplates are long, slender at base, expanded at apex in suborbicular disks which just attain the apex of the pygofers.
In this species, pini, and stigmatus the elytra are proportionately broader, with the costa more rouiulotl than in basal is.
I have taken one male of coloepeum at Buffalo and another at Sunset, Colorado, at an altitude of over 8,000 feet.
Cixias dorsalis ".
^i> Color blackish fuscous, paler beneath; front pleurrp and legs testaceous brown, tingoti with ferruginous on the clypeus; front clouded with brown, the carinir paler.
Dorsal surface almost black with a broad pale yellow vitta tinged with fulvous covering the whole vertex the proand niesonotuni between the lateral carinae and the elytral commissure^, where it becomes narrower and more obscured.
Sides of the mesonotuni deep l)lack.
Costa very narrowly pale with a pale spot on the base of the stigma; nervures concolorous, punctured, apical areoles with a few vague paler spots.
Vertex longer than in our other species, transverse, almost quadrangular, widened before by the expanded sides of the front.
Pronotum very short, linear, roundly produced before, the anterior and posterior margins almost parallel, very feebly angled behind; lateral carime very oblique, terminating outside of the mesonotal carince, the latter straight, but little divergent posteriorly; post-scutellum pale across the middle.
Pale commissural vitta of the elytra occupying the interior claval areole.
Wings smoky hyaline with fuscous nervures.
Length about 6 mm.
Described from one female example taken by Mrs. Annie Trumbull Slosson at Biscayne Bay, Florida.
This species is very distinct from any other known to me.
Its black color with broad yellowish dorsal vitta will at once distinguish it.
The above six species of Cixius are all that are known to me to inhabit North America, but Prof. Smith, in his Catalogue of the Insects of Neiv Jersey, enumerates alhicincta Germ, from that State.
I have seen nothing that could be identified with that species, or have I learned of its having been found elsewhere in this country.
(ienus MYNDUS Stal.
Myndus sordidipennis Stal.
The species I have placed under this name is not uncommon about moist springy spots in rich woods near Buffalo.
All my specimens differ from Stal's short and inadequate description in having the abdomen more or less blackish fuscous.
The elytra however agree exactly and I believe my identification to be correct.
Myndus pictifrons St&l.
This is another allied species with banded front, but it may be readily separated from sordidipennis by the Ijrown vitta at the inner apical angle of the elytra.
About Buffalo it is less abundant than the preceding.
Mrs. Slosson has taken it in the Wliite Mountains.
Of our other described species I have or have studied Slossoni and viridis of Ball and radicis of Osborn.
Slossoni and impiger Ball have a brown front almost immaculate; in radicis the front is pale with a basal fuscous band indicated, while viridis Ball and fulvus Osborn are almost unicolorous insects.
Cixius imputictatus Fitch is a Catonia.. Myndus delicatus n. sp.
Closely allied to sordidipennis, but a little smaller and paler.
Vertex a little narrower anteriorly, the sides almost parallel before the middle; in sordidipennis these sides converge nearly to their apex ; black with a broad longitudinal line toward the apex pale fulvous.
Eyes black with their inner edges slenderly pale.
Front rounded ovate; yellowish white with a black band across the base and apex; these bands a little narrower than in the allied species; carinne on the apex of the head pale, lower down on the front the lateral carinse become blackish within.
Clypeus soiled white.
Pronotum about as wide as in the same sex of sordidipennis] the hind edge more angularly emarginate and the humeral angles more rounded; superior disk black with the slender hind edge and median carina pale; sides pale slightly stained, the deflected portion black more or less broadly bordered with pale; in sordidipennis entirely pale in the specimens before me.
Patagia black, fuscous in its ally.
Mesonotum black wdth its side compartments invaded with ferruginous before, the small seutellum pale.
Elytra almost hyaline, slightly smoky at tip; nervures white dotted with concolorous bristle-bearing pits; stigma whitish.
Beneath whitish, a little suffused with flavous on the venter.
Apex of the genital segment oblique, armed with a minute triangular ventral tooth ; in sordidipennis this ventral tooth is larger with the adjoining margin quite deeply excavated ; stiles undulated at base as in sordidipennis but distally approximated to their rounded apex.
In sordidipennis most of the lower surface and genital pieces are black.
Length 5 mm.
Described from two male examples taken at Hot Springs, North Carolina, by Mrs. Annie Trumbull Slosson.
Subfamily ISSIDA.
This subfamily is quite largely represented in our territory.
I notice here one new species taken by Mrs. Slosson in Florida and two western forms.
Peltonotellus decoratus n. sp.
Closely allied to simplex, but with the elytra and abdomen mostly piccous black.
Characters of the front, vertex, proand nicsonotum almost exacdy as in simplex: the anterior etlge of the pronotuni is, however, more regularly roiuided instead of forming an indistinct angle at the inner corner of the eyes; the mesonotum is shorter with its lateral posterior margins much less oblique and the pectoral (lap of the pronotuni is narrower and more transverse.
Immediately below this flap y)r()jects the inferior end of one of the pleural pieces; in decoraius it.s sides are almost at right angles with the emarginated apex which fits around the base of the intermediate coxa?
; in simplex the hind edge of this piece is oblique and the apex is scarcely sinuated; the next adjoining piece is almost square in this new species but subtriangular in sim.plex.
Color fuscous deepened almost to ferruginous in the male in which sex the elytra and al^domen are deep piceous black, almost blue-black on the elytra, with the base of the abdomen and the apex of the genital segments touched with fulvous.
Legs fulvous with the tarsal claws antl the line of fine bristles on the edges of the tibiae blackish; the pustulate border of the front is also slightly infuscated.
In the female the general color is more flavous and this pale color is much more extended over the abdomen and inner field of the elytra.
In the characters of the male genitalia this species is quite distinct.
The ventral aspect of the genital segment is much shorter with the valve small and triangular, not short and transverse as in simplex; the plates (stiles of some authors) are much shorter and more rounded and do not nearly attain the anal tube.
In simplex the plates are longer and thicker, are narrowed to an incurved pointed apex like the strong stout claws of some birds, and in my specimens project almost at right angles to the apex of the segment, and would about reach the anal tube if depressed.
Described from one male and three female examples taken at Charlotte Harbor, Florida, by Mrs. Slosson.
At first sight this looks like a mere color variety of simplex, but the different form of the proand mesonotum, pleural pieces and male genitalia as well as its very distinct coloring will readily separate it.
This species and simplex differ from our three other known species, histrionicus Stal, rugosus liall, and bivittatus Ball, in having a pale clypeus.
t;cnus HYSTEROPTERUM A. and S. Hysteropterum cornutum Melichar.
Dr. Melichar has described this species on p. 1-47 of his Monograph of the Issida.
His specimens were from California, but I found it abundant in Utah and in Colorado west of the Continental DivideTwo other species of this genus have been described from this country : auroreum Uhler and pundijerum Walk., the latter red escribed by Dr. Uhler as aciculatum according to Melichar.
Genus THIONIA St&l.
This genus is well represented in Central and South America.
Melichar enumerates the following from this country : Thionia simplex Germ.
Recorded from Washington, D. C, to Texas.
I have taken it in Ohio.
Thionia elliptica Germ.
Recorded from Washington, D. C, to Missouri.
Thionia transversalis Mel.
Recorded from "N.
Am."
Thionia hidlata Say.
Recorded from New York to Georgia.
I have taken it in numbers at Niagara Falls and Gowanda, N. Y., and Mr. Palmer took it in North Carolina.
Melichar places Issus conspcrsus Walker as a synonym.
Thionia ocdlata Mel.
Recorded from "N.
Am."
I add the following: Thionia producta n. sp.
Form of naso Fowler, but smaller and less elongated.
Vertex much ' longer than broad, almost equally five-sided; the basal portion nearly square, its sides slightly diverging anteriorly, the apical portion produced in an angle a little less than a right angle; sides carinate, hind edge very feebly arcuated, surface flat with a feeble median carina at apex.
Front narrow, much longer than the head, a little narrower toward the angulated base; apex deeply emarginate for the reception of the clypeus; the three carinse distinct, acutely converging at base; clypeus long, strongly convex with a prominent median carina.
Pronotum shorter than the vertex, strongly advanced and rounded anteriorly between the eyes, truncated behind, ecarinate, with two impressed points on the disk.
j\Iesonotum short, not longer than the pronotum, its sides arcuated.
Elytra narrower than in hullata with the costa more angled and the apex more obtusely angled, not obliquely truncated as in that species; venation typical of this genus.
Wings deeply cleft.
Length 6 mm.
Color dull testaceous, paler on the abdomen.
Vertex and pronotum mostly black with a broad median pale vitta; slender edges of the pronotum and some marks behind the eyes also paler; front much invaded with black on the base, sides and apex; clypeus darker, either side with a few oblique lines; cheeks except at base and apex ivory white; pleural flaps of the i)r()notuni white and pruinose below, above black with a pale median cloud ; hind mar<2;in of the eyes pale.
Scutellura pale with the median line, basal angles and a short vitta on either side black.
Elytra with the longitudinal nervures and a broad vitta following the inner margin of the scutellum to behind the middle, black.
Venter marked with black along the middle and sides.
Described from one pair taken at Rifle, Colo., July 26, 1900.
This species and naso of Fowler present a new facies in this genus by their produced vertex, but in every other respect they are true Thionias and should doubtless be retained here.
Subfamily ACANALOXIDA Stal.
T can see no reason for uniting this subfamily with the Issida on one hand or with the Flatida on the other.
Four genera and ten species have been recorded from our territory, but doubtless many others will yet be found.
Genus AMPHISCEPA Germ.
Amphisoepa pumila n. sp.
Form nearly of Hysteropterum, much smaller than any other described species; elytra almost semicircular in outline.
Vertex very short, rounded almost from the base to the front with no transverse carina between the two; anterior and posterior margins parallel.
Front almost quadrate, the lower angles cut off in line with the sides of the clypeus, the sides below a little expanded and reflexed; base of the clypeus strongly angled, reaching almost to the line of the antennae.
Pronotum short, broadly rounded before, almost straight behind.
Elytra but little longer than broad, somewhat tumid toward the base, the costa semicircularly rounded, the whole surface rather closely but not very distinctly reticulated.
Length 4 mm.
; of the elytra 3 mm.
; width of the elytra 2^ mm.
Color soiled brownish testaceous a little tinged with green, paler beneath, commissural and apical margins of the elytra faintly dotted with brownish; tumid basal part of the elytra with a piceous spot.
Spines of posterior tibiae tipped with black.
Described from a single example taken by Mrs. Slosson at Biscayne Bay, Florida.
I have not yet seen Germar's description of this genus, but evidently It was founded for his malina, which Stal places as a synonym of Flata hivittata Say, published the same year.
In three places where Stal mentions this genus he places it in the Issida and states that the hind tibiae are unispinose, but in this he is certainly mistaken, as pointed out by Melichar.
In this genus the head is broader than in Acanalonia, but the longer scutellum and broad vertical reticulated elytra seem to ally it most closely with Acanalonia and I follow Melichar in placing it with that genus.
Through a clerical error Melichar has credited this genus to Say instead of Germar.
Genus ACANALONIA Spinola.
Acanalonia olypeata n. sp.
Allied to viresccns Stal but a little smaller with much narrower elytra.
Vertex horizontal, longitudinally a little concave; slightly conical before, a little more so than in virescens, but with its length distinctlj' less than its width between the eyes; passage to the front rounded.
Front broad, much shortened by the encroachment of the broad truncated base of the clypeus, which reaches above the lower line of the eyes; base tumid, sides well rounded, less angled than in virescens _ Clypeus very large, transversely tumid, polished.
Proand mesonotum about as in viresccns, ecarinate.
Elytra as long as in virescens but much narrower, their length twice their greatest width which is at about the basal fourth, then narrowed and a little sinuated or subparallel to the feebly rounded apex; longitudinal venation strong, reticulations weak and somewhat coarser than in virescens.
Wings as long as the elytra; whitish hyaline or a little infuscated, with prominent nervures.
Length 7 mm.
to the tip of the closed elytra; width across the elytra 3 mm.
Color pale greenish yellow tinged with testaceous on the clypeus; eyes brown; tarsi tinged with rufous; apical spines of the posterior tibiae and antennal setaj black.
Elytra pale pea-green becoming whitish along the base of the costa and with the marginal nervure about the apex very slenderly brown.
Described from a single male example taken at St. George, Utah, in July, by Prof. H. F. Wickham.
This species is very near to delicatula Fowler, but the elytra are still narrower, the vertex is shorter and not separated from the front by a carina, and there are no discernible carinee on the mesonotum.
The large oval and tumid clypeus and narrow elytra are good characters for distinguishing this species.
Subfamily FLATIDA Stal.
Genus CYARDA Walker.
Cyarda Melichari VanDuzee.
A fine series of Cyardas from Florida received from Mrs. Slosson has enabled me to correct one other error of determination in my Jamaica list.
The Florida specimens there mentioned under Cyarda were of Mdichdri {puiictiila Walk, of McliclKuj, l>ut tliose from Jamaica were probably the acuminipennis Spinola.
Tlie Icngtli given by Spinola is about 8 mm., which corresponds with my Jamaican material.
In this Jamaican species there is a blackish cloud beneath and behind the elytral hump, the anterior side of which is piceous; and the elytra are subfalcate at apex, which is cut off ()l)li(iucly and a little arcuated; the vertex is longer and less deeply sculj)turetl than in Mdichari and the base of the front is piceous brown.
In these Florida specimens ol MeUchari the apex of the elytra is narrower, wedge shaped and subacute; the costa is more abruptly expanded at base and the disk wants the infuscation found in the other species.
Here the base of the front is scarcely if at all darker.
I cannot accept Melichar's synonymy of Walker's species he places under acuminipennis, conformis, and punctata.
Genus FLATOIDES (iuer.
Flatoides fusous n. sp.
Form of Flatoides scabrosus Alclichar; dull blackish fuscous, disk of the elytral areoles and all beneath pale yellowish brown.
Length 10 mm.
; width across the elytra 4^ mm.
Vertex a little more than one-half as long as the width between the eyes, disk depressed, anterior margin quite regularly rounded.
Front a little longer than broad, narrowed toward the base, sides broadly reflexed, moderately rounded, basal and clypeal margins parallel, almost rectilinear; clypeus long triangular, a little convex.
Pronotum strongly rounded before between the eyes, of equal length across its whole width, the discal plate formed by the strong curved lateral carinse semicircular with the hind edge rather deeply arcuated.
Mesonotum lozenge shaped, the sides nearly equal, anterior angle rounded, carinse obscure.
Elytra about twice longer than broad, costa straight and parallel with the connnissure, apex regularly rounded ; costal membrane twice wider than the costal areole, broader toward the base where it projects moderately in a rounded lobe; crossed by numerous transverse veins; all the nervures h(^a\-v, those of the disk irregular; toward the apex with two transverse lines, the inner indistinct and irregular; the subbase with a strong l)lackish tubercle.
Plates of the male genital segment long triangular, approximate at base within.
Color blackish fuscous covered with a grey mealy tomentimi which obscures the neuration and other characters; indefinite disk of the vertex and pronotum.
marginal n(>rvuro and disk of all the areoles of the elytra and all beneath dull yellowish brown; base of the front with a blackish band which cros.ses the sides of the face and inferior flap of 33 the pronotum; basal joint of the antennae brown with a pale tip; clypeus tinged with ferruginous, darker toward the apex; anterior and intermediate legs, middle pleural pieces and disk of the ventral segments clouded with darker brown.
Wings smoky with strong fuscous nervures.
Described from one male and two female examples labelled "Colorado Desert" and received from Prof. J.
B. Smith.
In this species the elytra are moderately convex and are held at an angle of about 45 degrees.
This species is very close "to scabrosus Mel., but the vertex is shorter, the colors very different and the elytral nervures stronger and more irregular.
These species are not characteristic of this genus and are intermediate between it and Dascalia.
NEW CLAUSILIIDiE OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE-XI.
^^Y HKXRY A. I'lLSliKV.
The present ])aper^ deals chiefly with species of the Ryukyu Islands and Formosa, and especially with an interesting series of very small Clausilicc relat(Ml to Zaph/x.
This series no\v comprises some twentynine species, all but one of them discovered by Mr. Hirase and his assistants.
No member of tlie Zaptychoid group has been recognized in Cliina.
All are insular; and being among the most specialized of all Clausilia^ in structure, they indicate a greater antiquity for the Ryukyuan fauna than zoogeographers have generally been disposed to atlmit.
Section MEGAL(3PH.T:r)USA Btt-.
Clausilia martensi concrescens n. subsp.
In this form the spaces between the palatal plica) are filled up, making a straight lunella with slightly uneven edge.
Cuticle greenish yellow.
Length 35, diam.
8.5 to 9 mm.
Shishikui, Awa, Shikoku Island.
Types No.
90,044, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,189 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Section LUCHUPHJ^DUSA Pils.
To the nine species of this section already known two are now to be added.
Clausilia inolyta n. sp.
PI.
XXXII, figs.
1-4.
Shell rather slender, gradually and regularly tapering from the penultimate whorl to the small apex; extremely thick and solid ; grayish white, being denuded of cuticle throughout; very coarsely sculptured icitk Htrong straight rounded ribs nearly as wide as their intervals, about 24 or 25 in number on the last whorl, and not coarser on its back.
Whorls about 11, moderately convex, the last smaller than the penultimate, its last half compressed.
Aperture small, vertical, ]:)ii-iform ; peristome * This is the eleventh paper treating exclusively of Japanese Clausiliidaj collected by Mr. Hinvse.
Seven of them appeared under tlie title "Additions to tlie Japanese Land Snail Fauna," the rest under various titles.
A list of them is appended to this paper.
In all 10,5 pages, and 31 plates containing 535 figures drawn by tlie author, have been published.
Isabella-tinted, thick, well expanded and slightly refllexed; the parietal viargin cut into one or several rounded tubercles, the peristome elsewhere smooth.
Superior lamella marginal, suhvertical, thick at its end, thin within and continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates past the aperture to the left side.
Inferior lamella thick but not in the least doubled, forming a prominent fold in the mouth, very strongly spiral within, becoming horizontal and very strong a half whorl inward, then abruptly diminishing, penetrating as far as the spiral lamella.
Suhcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, penetrating inward as far as the other lamella^.
Principal plica not long, latero-ventral.
No upper palatal plica.
Lower palatal plica long, oblique and arcuate, a N'ery oblique, long lunella rising from it near the middle, and curved inwards somewhat at the upper end.
Ijength 26, diam.
6, length of aperture 6.2 nun.
The clausilium (PL XXXII, figs.
3, 4) is well curved, the columellar margin straight, strengthened by a rib which terminates in a straight finger-like apical process; palatal margin arcuate.
Ogimi, prov.
Kunchan, Ryukyu (Okinawa).
Types No.
89,890 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,347 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is more coarsely sculptured than any other known Luchuphcedusa, and is further distinguished by the very long lunella, as in C. lokunoshimana, and the absence of an upper palatal plica, present in the other species.
The clausilium has most resemblance to that of C. mi ma.
In quite mature individuals the sculpture is largely worn from the ventral face of the shell, as shown in the figure.
Clausilia koniyaensis n. sp.
PI.
XXXII, figs.
5-S.
Shell fusiform, the pciuiltimate whorl widest, pale straw-yellow, glossy, •closely and evenly striate, the striir usually a little more si)aced on the back of the last whorl.
Whorls 9^, slightly convex, the last compressed laterally, convex below.
Aperture small, piriform, the peristome white, refiexed and somewhat tliickened, the parietal margin weakly, irregularly crenulated.
Superior lamella marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates past the ventral to the left side.
Inferior lamella more or less distinctly double, forming two contiguous columellar folds; as long inside as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, but rather weak; as long inside as the other lamella\ Principal plica lateral, about a lialf whorl long.
Upper palatal jjlica rather short and very oblique.
Lower palatal plica long, strong and arcuate, a rather long, oblique lunella rising from it in the middle.
TiOngtli 14.8-1 o.;>, (liaiii.
I iniii.
'Uw clausiliiiin (I'l.
X.XXIl, figs.
6, 7) is much twisted, tapering and ac'uniinatc distally, with a notch between the thick terminal point and a smaller point on the palatal side, a short distance from the apex.
Koniya, Oshiina.
Osunii, Types Xo.
94,.
')43, A. N. S. P., from No.
054<?
of .Mr.
lliraso'.s Collection.
This snail is nnicli like C. mima Pils., also of Oshima, but it is slightly larger and more strongly rib-striate, the inferior lamella is usually distinct ly double, the subcolumellar lamella is less dilated below the lower palatal ])lica, and finally the shape of the clausilium is very different, as may be seen by comparing the figures here given with figs.
17, 18 of Plate 22 of these Proceedings for 1901.
C. koniyaensis also resembles C. tokunoshimana, but differs in the shape of the clausilium, the less coarse sculpture, more lateral lunella, etc.
Zaptyciioid phylum.
Numerous new species and groups of this phylum were discussed in the preceding paper of this series, but the modifications of internal armature and clausilium seem to be interminable, and a number of peculiar additional forms must now^ be described.
These require an amplification and various modifications of the key to sections previously given.
The key given below is designed to show the natural relationships of the groups so far as they are now understood.
Key to the Sections of Zaptychoid Clausili^.
I.
— Lunella normally developed, lateral, oblique, above united with or contiguous to the upper palatal plica, which varies from ver)^ long to short or even wanting, but when present this plica projects inward ])eyond the upper end of the lunella.
Clausilium entire and rounded distally, or rarely nuicronate.
a.
— Inferior lamella receding, inconspicuous or invisible from in front, obliquely ascending and straightened within the back of the last whorl.
Remote from the superior lamella.
h. — Shell without sutural plica?, fulcrum or parallel lamella.
c. — Clausilium parallel-sided, flattened, rounded at the end.
Section Hemizaptyx.
c'.
— Clausilium swollen and callous outside near the palatal margin, either angular or rounded at the end.
Section II eterozaptyx.
/('.— Shell thin; sutiu'al plica^, fulcrum and parallel lamella developed.
Distal end of the clausilium rounded.
Section Zaptyx.
a\ — Inferior lamella ascending in a broad spiral curve within the last whorl, approaching the superior lamella.
h. — Clausilium strongly tapering to the angular or narrowly rounded apex, not buttressed externally; fulcrum present ; sutural plica; weak or wanting, Section Stereozaptyx.
b^.
— Clausilium tapering to the blimtly angular apex, buttressed outside by an erect transverse plate; no sutural plica?
or fulcrum; inferior lamella receding, Section Parazaptyx.
U'.
— Clausiliiun wide distally, the apex rounded; smooth outside.
Shell thin, sutural plica?
developed; inferior lamella approaching the superior in the aperture as a thin fold.
Section Metazaptyx.
IT.
— The lunella arises from the middle of a long, arched lower palatal plica, and curves inward at its upper end; superior lamella developed or wanting; inferior lamella spirally ascending within ; sutural plica?, fulcrum and parallel lamella developed Clausilium short, deeply notched on the palatal side near the apex, Section Oligozaptyx.
III.
— The upper palatal plica is ver}'^ long, an extremely short lunella branching from near its inner end; inferior lamella spirally ascending within; superior lamella and sutural plica?
develoi)ed.
Clausilium notched on the palatal side near the apex, Section Diceratoptyx.
I\'.
— The lunella is merely a continuation oblicjuely downwards of the "inner end of the upper palatal plica, and its position is ventral in known species ; no sutural or lower palatal plica?
or fulcrum ; inferior lamella receding, vertical below, then bent to the left within the back of the last whorl.
Palatal margin of the clausilium more or less excised below the middle.
a.
— Peristome entire, the apertiire normally clausilioid; upj^er palatal plica and lunella together much shorter ikan the principal plica, Section Selenoptyx.
a^.
Peristome widely interrupted; shell imperforate, not in the least rimate; the upper palatal plica with the lunella forms a very long, slightly bowed fold, subparallel to the principal plica, but diverging downward towards the inner end, Section Thaumatoptyx.
Section HETEROZAPTYX Pils.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, p. 730, footnote.
Shell like Hemizaptyx; the upper palatal plica either short (as in Zaptyz) or very long, approaching the aperture, and sometimes it is interrupted.
The clausilium is deeply excised on the coluraellar side at the filament, callous and sivollen outside near the palatal margin, and either acuminate or rounded at the end.
Type C. nnams {Heterozaptyx, unlike Zaptyx).
'l\\v two s[)e('ic.s ul" this <;i-()U|) liithciin known were referred to Ilemizaptyx as a second division {Proc.
A. N .
S.
Phila., 1904, p. 825); l)ut the discovery of more species with the same type of clausilium makes it expedient to recognize the group by name.
It is closely related to Ilcniizaptyx in shell features, but dilTers in the peculiar swell and callus along the outside of the clausilium near its palatal l^order.
The species now known are as follows : 1.
— Clausilium rather long, acuminate at the apex, which is a little hooked backward.
a.
— Upper palatal plica interrupted, a short portion being situated at the top of the lunella and a long one in the back of the last whorl, visible in the mouth.
Formosa, C. diacoptyx.
a*.
— Upper palatal plica very long, extending nearly to the lip.
Clausilium unknown.
Formosa, .
.
.
C uraniscoptyx.
a-.
— Upp(npalatal plica short; shell striate.
h. — Shell dark reddish-brown, glossy, and rather thin, 10 to 11 mm.
long, 2 to 2.3 wide, with 1% whorls; sides of the clausilium strongly reflexed.
Tokunoshima, C. hyperaptyx.
¥.
— Shell pale chestnut or browmish corneous, rather thin, 11 to 13 mm.
long, 2.7 wdde, with 9 to 10^ whorls; clausilium distinctly hooked at the apex.
Oshima, C. oxypomatica.
h-.
— Shell browm or yellowish-brown, quite solid when adult, 12 to 15 mm.
long, 3 to 3.6 wide, with 9 to 10 whorls.
Clausilium distinctly hooked at the apex.
Oshima, C. munus.
1 1 .
— Clausilium short, very wide distally, w'here it is broadly rounded and recurved at the edge.
Upper palatal plica very long, approaching the aperture.
Keraina-jima, Ryukyu, C. longiplicata.
CUusilia hyperaptyx ViU.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Piiila., 1904, p. 827.
The clausilium (PI.
XXXII, fig.
10), seen from the palatal side, is licre figured, to show the imusual wddth of the reflexed palatal margin.
The terminal hook is much less developed than in C. oxypomatica [hyperaptyx, with no fold al)Ove).
Clausilia munus Pils.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Pliila., 1901, p. vn.
The clausilium is here figured (PI.
XXXIT, figs.
11, 12) from the type specimen.
It is conspicuously angular at the apex, which is decidedly thickened, and in profile view is seen to be hooked backward.
The columellar margin is regularly arcuate, bordered by a thickened rim.
The palatal margin is rather strongly convex in the middle, and above the middle it is very iiiucli thickened outside, as shown in the profile view.
In some specimens it has a concavity in the inner face corresponding to the external callus.
The main curvature of the clausilium is not far from the origin of the filament; elsewhere it is nearly straight in profile view.
In specimens from Ikejijima, Oshima, the external callosity referred to is weak.
In those from Koniya, Oshima, the clausilium is typical.
The shells from this place are more delicate, thinner than the types of C. munus {muniis, a gift).
Clausilia diacoptyx n. sp.
PI.
XXXIII, figs.
13-19.
Shell fusiform, the apex rather obtuse, whorls 8 to 9, moderately convex, the last tapering downwards.
Surface glossy, smooth, faintly striatiilate, the last whorl rib-striate for a short distance behind the outer lip.
Pale greenish corneous, somewhat transparent.
Aperture ovate, the lip well reflexed and thick.
Superior lamella marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which is high in the lateral region, and extends inward to a point above the superior lamella.
Inferior lamella deeply receding, straightened and obliquely ascending within, shorter than the spiral lamella, or equal to it.
Subcolumellar lamella strongly emerging to the lip-edge, a groove with raised margins on each side of it.
Principal plica somewhat more than a half whorl long, dorsal and lateral, approaching the lip.
Upper palatal plica consisting of two portions, the inner portion short, across the top of the straight, lateral lunella, the other portion widely separated from it, dorsal, visible in the mouth, long, and diverging forward a little from the principal plica.
I.ength 10, diam.
2.3 mm.
8.8 " 2.3 " The clausilium (PI.
XXXIIl, figs.
15, 16, 17) is rather long with snbparallel margins, the columellar margin aljrupth^ excised above, then straight, and near the apex strongly curved towards the palatal margin.
The apex is curved toward the palatal margin and then outward in an acute point, separated from the palatal side by a rather deep excision, which is scarcely apparent in a front view, ])ut is conspicuous in a profile view from the palatal side.
The palatal margin is thick and sliglitly arched.
Sammaipo, Taiwan (Formosa).
Types No.
89,896, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,430 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is probably related to C. uraniscoptyx Schm.
and Bttg., from Bankimtsong, Formosa, but unfortunately the clausilium of that species has not been described.
The present form differs from that (Icscrilx'd by Scluiiackt'r mikI Boci t.<;(Mhy its broadly interrupted upper palatrU plica and the iioii-ascciidiuj:; last whorl.
Clausilia oxypomatica ".
^-i)I'l.
XXXIII, fi^s.
20 24.
Shell cylindric-fusiforin, attenuated towards the rather acute apex, pale chestnut or brownish corneous, slightly transparent, the old shells opaque, very finely but not deeply striate, more coarsely so on the last half whorl.
Whorls 9 to 10^, but slightly convex, the last compressetl laterally, the base tapering.
Aperture rhombic-ovate.
Peristome expanded and reflexed, rather narrow and not much thickened except in old shells; parietal wall free, emarginate above the superior lamella.
The superior lamella is vertical, marginal, thin but rather high, continuous with the spiral lamella, which is very high in the lateral position, and penetrates to a point above the superior lamella.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply, is straight and oblique within the last w'horl, and penetrates inward less deeply than the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges.
Principal plica more than a half whorl long, dorsal and lateral, approaching the aperture.
Upper palatal plica thin but moderately long, with the lunella forming a T-shaped barrier.
Length 13, diam.
2.7 nmi. "
11, " 2.7 " The clausilium (PI.
XXXIII, figs.
21, 22, 23) is not much curved, but is quite concave internally and convex or somewhat baggy externally.
The columellar side is very deeply excised at the filament.
The two sides are about equally arcuate, the apex somew^hat acuminate and projecting, as though a drop were hanging there.
There is a rib inside along the columellar margin, and a more diffuse callus on the outside along the palatal margin.
Oshima, Osumi.
Types No.
89,889, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,336 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species falls into the second division (II) of my key to Ilemizaptyx {Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1904, p. 825).
It differs from both the species of that division (C. hijpcraptyx and C. yyiuniis) in having the upper palatal plica somewhat longer, the lunella joining it in the middle.
It is thinner and more slender than C. muniis, larger, wider, paler and less sharply striate than C. In/pcraptyx {oxypomalicus, having a sharp li<l or "clausilium").
At Koniya, Oshima, there is a variety of C. munus more delicate than the type lot, the shell usually somewhat smaller and more slender.
It is this i'oi-ni which approaches C. oxypomatica.
Clausilia longiplicata ri.
sp.
Pl.
XXXIII, figs.
25-29.
Shell cylindric-fusiform, strong, light yellowish brown, sul)transparent except when old, when it becomes opaque.
Surjace very smooth and glossy, as if varnished, marked with faint growth-lines only.
Whorls 8^, moderately convex, the last a little compressed laterally, pinched into a short low and rounded basal crest.
Aperture rhombicovate, the white peristome a little expanded and narrowly reflexCd, thickened in old shells.
Superior lamella high and compressed, continuous with the spiral lamella which is also exceptionally high, and continues inward to a point above the sinulus.
Inferior lamella receding, low but strong and callous within, at first vertically ascending, then abruptly bent to the left, after which it ascends vertically again, abruptly becoming low on the ventral side, and much shorter there than the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella very slender, emerging to the lip-edge, bounded by grooves.
Principal plica dorsal and lateral, extending nearly to the lip.
Upper palatal plica ver-y long, parallel to the principal plica on the side, but diverging from it on the back, where it approaches the lip, and is seen conspicuously in the mouth.
Lunella lateral, very oblique, slightly arcuate, tapering towards the ends, not reaching the upper palatal plica, or but weakly joining it.
There is no lower palatal plica.
Sutural plica^ and fulcrum are absent.
Length 11, diam.
2.9 mm. ''
10, " 2.3 " '' 10, " 2.6 '' The clausilium (PI.
XXXIII, figs.
25, 26) is very short, spatulate, being broad and rounded distally.
It is excised near the filament as usual in Zaptychoid clausilice; near the distal end it bulges inward, and has a corresponding concavity on the outer face.
It is somewhat calloused along the palatal margin.
Keraraa-jima, Ryukyu.
Types No.
89,892, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,361 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This peculiar snail resembles C. agna in its general form and brilliant gloss, but differs widely in internal structure.
The long upper palatal plica reminds one of C. dolichoptyx, but that species is in everything else a true Zaptyx.
The long upper palatal plica and short lunella suggest Dicerotoptyx, which, however, differs by the shape of the inferior lamella, the different clausilium, etc.
C. uraniscoptyx of Formosa differs from longiplicata by its ascending last whorl {longiplicatus, long-folded, in allusion to the long upper palatal plica).
Soction ZA['TVX Pil.s.
The following .species enlarges our conceptions of Znplijx \)X a stiuctiire not before known in the section; the upper palatal plica being greatly lengthened, as in IlcUrozapti/x, while in the oth(>r known species of Zapti/x it is comparatively short.
Clausilia dolichoptyx n. &p. PI.
XXXIV.
30-33.
Shell slender, fusiform-turrited, chestnut-brown, rather opaque, shining; the spire long, tapering and somewhat attenuate, apex obtuse, whitish.
Whorls 9^ to 10, convex, very slowly increasing, irregularly striatulate or marked with growth-wrinkles.
Aperture narrowly piriform, small; the peristome white, continuous, narrow^ly expanded, the outer lip a little reflexed.
The superior lamella is very small or subohsoletc; the spiral lamella is reduced to a very small, short lamella in the region of the lunella.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply, being hardly visible in the aperture; in the back it ascends obliquely, is low, rather thick and straightened, not continuous with a short portion which lies parallel to the short spiral lamella.
There is a fulcrum and a parallel lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella is usually quite immersed, but sometimes emerges.
The principal plica is short, about a fourth of a whorl long, and in a lateral position.
The upper palatal plica is very long, the lunella joined to it near its inner end ; thence it diverges from the principal plica, running towards the aperture.
The lunella is long and nearly straight.
Two short sutural plicre stand above the lunella.
Length 12.5, diam.
3, length of aperture 2.5 mm. "
10.5 " 2.5, " " " 2 " Clausilium (PI.
XXXIV, figs.
31, 32) with the curvature chiefly near the filament, as usual in Zaptyx; very wide above, tapering distally, rounded at the apex.
It is deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament, and much dilated on the palatal side.
Heda, Kunchan, Ryukyu.
Types No.
90,020, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,3-12 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is readily recognized by the very long upper palatal plica, the small superior lamella very widely separated from the short spiral lamella, and the number of whorls, which is greater than in the other species.
With the exception of the upper palatal plica, the structure is not unlike that of C. hirasei, the type of Zaptyx {dolichoptyx, long fold).
Clausilia dolichoptyx miora n. subsp.
Shell smaller than C. dolichoptyx, nearly smooth except the last half whorl, which is sharply and finely striate, whorls 8 to 8J.
Superior lamella well developed ; subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Length 9.5, diam.
2.3 mm.
8.5 " 2 " Heda, Kunchan.
Types No.
90,021, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,843 of Mr. Ilirase's collection.
Clausilia hyperoptyx Pils.
Specimens from Heanza-jima, Kunchan, are smaller than the types, 8 to 9 mm.
long.
They have the upper palatal plica rather long.
A series from Sezoko-jima, Kunchan, consists in part of typical hyperoptyx, in part of densely striate specimens which would be referable to yaeyamensis, from which they differ only in the slightly finer striation.
The study of these specimens causes me to reduce C. yaeyamensis to a variety of C. hyperoptyx.
It differs only in the striation, and in showing the inferior lamella somewhat more conspicuously as a thin fold, in an oblique view in the mouth.
In hyperoptyx this lamella recedes more.
The superior and spiral lamella?
are weakly continuous (hyperoptyx, fold above) .
Section STEREOZAPTYX Pilsbry.
Shell Zaptychoid, with the inferior lamella strongly spiral within, thick at its base, w^iich recedes more or less ; spiral lamella weak and low; lunella well developed; a nodular fulcrum present; sutural plica?
weak or al^sent.
Clausilium well curved, wide above, strongly tapering to the angular or narrowly rounded apex, abruptly excised on the columellar side at the origin of the filament.
This section differs from Parazaptyx and Metazaptyx in the calloused columellar or inferior lamella, which in both of the others is thin and high.
It further differs from Parazaptyx in lacking a transverse rib on the clausilium, and from Metazaptyx by the strongly tapering distal end of the clausilium; that of Metazaptyx Iseing wide distally.
In the species now known the superior and spiral lamella?
are not continuous.
Clausilia entospira Pil^'.
PI.
XXXII, fig.
9.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 64.3.
A figure is here given to show the internal structure, and especially the fulcrum (/.
), which was overlooked when I first described the species.
It has been found only on Tanega-shima.
Additional specimens received agree with the types.
It is a rare snail {entospira, spiral within).
Clausilia exulaiis n ^i'.
IM.
X.\\l\'.
Tiks.
^o.
11, 42.
Shell fusifonn, the spire attenuated above, rather thin, glossy, yellowish or brownish corneous, somewhat ti-ansparent except when old.
Whorls 9 to 9^, the earlier, atteiuiated ones quite convex, the lai-iier later ones less so, the last whorl tapering, laterally flattened, shortly free in front.
Surface weakly striatulate, the last whorl becoming strongly evenly striate on the back, rounded below.
Aperture small, piriform-ovate, the peristome expanded and reflexed, rather thin.
Superior lamella small, short and thin, broadly separated from the small, low and short spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella deeply receding, appearing as a doubly nodular fold in an oblique view in the mouth.
Inside it is strongly spiral, low, thin, with a callous nodule below ; above it becomes strong and high ; not continued parallel to the spiral lamella, and therefore not nearly so deeply penetrating.
The subcolumcllar lamella emerges.
There is a nodule-like fulcrum.
Principal plica about a half whorl long, extending from the middle of the dorsal to the middle of the ventral side.
Upper palatal plica small and short.
Lunella very strong and high, subvcntral, slightly arcuate.
There is a small sutural plica.
Length 11.
7, diam.
2.25, length of aperture 2.25 mm.
10, " 2 mm.
11, " 2.3 " Clausilium (PI.
XXXIV, figs.
40, 41) strongly arcuate, deeply and abruptly excised on the columellar side of the filament; wide above, strongly tapering to the apex, which though narrow is rounded.
The palatal side is dilated near the filament.
The filament is deeply inserted in the middle of the penultimate whorl.
Nase, Oshima, Osumi.
Types No.
89,888, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,335 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form is closely related to C. entospira of Tanega-shima.
It is a more lengthened, slenderer shell than that, with more whorls; it is much thinner, and there is a weak upper palatal plica, not present in the other; finally, the aperture projects farther forward.
Section OLIGOZAPTYX Pilshry.
Clausilia hedleyi hyperodonta n. subsp.
Similar to C. hcdlcyi, but it differs in having a superior lamella distinctly developed.
Varying in size from Length 9.5, diam.
2 mm., to " 7.5, " 1.7 " Koniya, Oshima.
Types No.
90,019, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,202a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Section SELENOPTYX nov.
Shell with the oblique ventral lunella and the upper palatal plica united into a continuous crescentic barrier, the convex side of the crescent inward and upward; otherwise like Hemizaptyx.
Clausilium excised on the colurnellar side at the filament.
Palatal border reflexed, the lower half more or less excised.
Type C. noviluna.
This group is unlike any other in palatal armature, the inner end of the upper palatal plica passing directly into the oblique lunella, forming a crescent which may be somewhat angular in the middle.
This is ventrally or latero-ventrally situated, and except in old, opaque shells is visible through the front of the shell.
The inferior lamella is remote from the superior, not visible in a front view, vertical within, with a bend to the left in the middle.
The clausilium is peculiar.
Clausilia noviluna n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV, figs.
34-39.
Shell fusiform, attenuate above.
Whorls about lOJ, the upper ones convex, the last flattened laterally.
Surface glossy, brown, densely and very finely striate throughout, the striation not coarser on the last whorl.
Aperature rhombic-ovate, the peristome expanded, thick.
The superior lamella is slightly oblique, thin and rather high, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella which is very low within the back, but high ventrally, penetrating past the aperture.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply, is flattened and ascends vertically within the back, then bends abruptly to the left, and finally ascends again.
It is not continued parallel to the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges.
It is weak throughout.
The principal plica is more than a half whorl long, dorsal and lateral extending nearly to the aperture.
The upper palatal plica is of moderate length, inwardly continuous with the obliquely descending lunella, which is lateroventral in position.
There are no accessory lamellae or plica?.
Length 10.7, diam.
2.8 mm.
8.5 " 2.3 " The clausilium (PI.
XXXIV, figs.
34, 35, 36) is abruptly excised on the colurnellar side of the filament.
In the middle of the palatal margin there is a backwardly projecting point or angle of the recurved margin, below which the edge is notched and irregular.
Iheya-jima, Ryukyu.
Types No.
90,046, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,356 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This curious little snail is related to the following species, having the same kind of palatal plica and lunella, completely united into a single curved barrier {noviluna, new moon, in allusion to the narrow, curved lunella).
Clausilia inversiluna n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV.
fiits.
43.
14.
Shell fusiform.
Ilic lower half rather obese, the spire rapidly tapering, and strongly utteniuitod above.
Whorls 9 to lOV, the upper ones quite convex, the lower less so, last whorl tapering, laterally flattened.
Surface brown, shining, striatulate, the last whorl very finely and densely striate.
Aperture rhombic-ovate, the peristome reflexed, thick, pale brownish.
Superior lamella marginal, sul)vertical, becoming very low inside, where it is w'eakly continuous with the spiral lamella, which becomes high within the ventral side, and penetrates past the sinulus to the middle of the left side.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply.
Within the back it is thick and ascends vertically, then bends inward, but is notcontinued on thcpenultimate whorl parallel to the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges.
The principal plica is three-fourths of a whorl long, extending from near the lip to a point above the sinulus.
The upper palatal plica is of moderate length, and inwardly is continuous with the slightly shorter lunella, which is exactly ventral in position and descends obliquely inward, to the peristome just above the superior lamella.
Length 11.8, diam.
2.8 mm.
10, " 2.8 " 10, " 2.6 " The clausilimn (PI.
XXXIV, fig.
44) is rather wide above, excised at the origin of the filament, on the columellar side; it tapers distally to a narrow, rounded apex, near w^hich it is concave on the palatal side.
Both sides are rolled back.
Kumejima, Ryukyu.
Types No.
90,045, A. N. S. P., from No.
1 ,359 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is closely related to the preceding species (C noviluna), but it differs in being larger, less strongly striate, witii the inferior lamella bent less abruptly within the back; the lunella is situated more deeply, and the clausiliuin is much less specialized, wanting the angular lobe and notch on the palatal margin, so conspicuous in C. noviluna.
The l)eristome reminds one of tlie Formosan C. sheridani {inversiluna, moon inverted).
Section TIIAUMATOPTYX nov. Clausilia^ with discontinuous peristome, the colimicllar and parietal walls covered with an adnate callus, the aperture therefore somewhat Bulimoid.
Inferior lamella receding, vertical below, abruptly bent inward in the middle.
Upper palatal plica and lunella indistinguishahly united into one extremehj long, arcuate fold, subparallel to the pi-iiicipal plica, but curving down at the inner end.
Clausiliuin Zaptychoid, with an angular projection near the middle of the palatal margin.
Type C. hivincta.
{Thaumaloptyx , w^onderful fold.)
This group is proposed for a marvellously specialized ClamUia.
The shell is not in the least rimate, the columellar and parietal margins of the peristome being wholly adnate to the whorl, represented by a thinedged callus spread upon the whorl.
It has some resemblance to Selenoptyx in the deeply receding closing apparatus, the abruptly bent inferior lamella Avithin the last whorl, the shape of the combined upper palatal plica and lunella, and in the form of the clausilium.
Clausilia bivincta n. sp.
PI.
XXXIV, figs.
45, 46.
Shell slenderly fusiform, slowly tapering above to the rather large, obtuse apex; thin, yellowish-corneous, subtransparent.
Surface glossy, faintly striatulate, the last whorl slightly striate behind the lip.
Whorls 8 to 9, the upper ones quite convex, the penultimate whorl largest, the last whorl tapering, constricted around the middle as though bound in by two tightly encircling cords.
Aperture irregularly piriform, the outer and basal lips expanded, narrowly reflexed, not thickened within; outer lip sinuous, being arched forward above the middle, retracted at sinulus and base.
The columellar and parietal lips are, reflexed, and ivholly adnate, appearing only as a whitish callus spreading upon the last whorl.
The superior lamella is very small, thin and oblique, not attaining the margin, continuous with the spiral lamella, which is low within the back, but becomes high on the ventral side.
It penetrates past the aperture to the middle of the left side.
The inferior lamella recedes so as to be invisible from in front; within the back it ascends vertically a short distance, then turns abruptly and horizontally to the left, and then again ascends in a very wide plate to its insertion.
It does not penetrate parallel to the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges.
The principal plica is one whorl long, running from near the lip to the middle of the left side.
The upper palatal plica is as long as the principal plica and subparallel to it, but it diverges somewhat forwardly, where it is visible in the mouth, and its inner end (apparently representing the lunella) diverges still more, running obliquely down to the suture, behind the posterior angle of the aperture.
The principal plica and the upper palatal plica are visible through the shell, and appear like cords causing the constriction of the last whorl.
There are no other palatal plicae, but the subcolumellar Tamella runs up on the palatal wall in the position of a lower palatal plica.
Lentjtli 9, diiun.
l.S nun.
7.;!. "
l.S •■ The clausiliuni is ralhcr wide and sonicwliat r('S('nil)l('S tliat of Cldiisilid norihinii.
It is excised at the lilanicnt on the cohuncllar siilo, and there is a projection or point Jiear tlie middle of the palatal niar<iin.
it Iodides v(>ntrally {hivinctus, twice bound).
Hotawa, 'raiwan ( I'orinosa).
'Fvpes No.
89,894, A. X. S.
!
'., from No.
1,40") of Mr. llirase's collection.
This minute Clausilia is hif;hly specialized, and is without near relatives ainona; known forms.
It is a rare species, of which only five were found.
'I'lie last whorl has the appearance of bein^ bound with two cords about tluMuiddle.
List ov Papers Dkschihixo Jai-axk.si': Clausiliid.e CoLLKCTKn nv Mk.
\'.
IliUASK, 1900 1907.
1.
Additions to the Japanese band Snail Favnm— lb rroc A. X. N.
Philu., liHH), pp.
443-448, PI.
XI\'.
2.
Additions to the Japanese band Snail Fauna— III.
Proc.
A .
S. Pliilti.. 1900. pp.
t)7LMxS:i ris.
XXIV, X.W (1901).
A.
Additions to the Japanese band Snail Faiina — IV.
Proc.
A. X. S.
Phila., 1901 , pp.
465-4S.5.
Pis.
XXVXXVIII.
4.
Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Favina — Y. Proc.
A. X. S.
Philu., 1901, pp.
622-046, Pis.
XXXV-XXXIX (1902).
5.
Tiie band MoUusks of the boo Clioo I.slands: ('la\isilii(he.
Proc.
A.
A.
^S'.
Phila., 1901, pp.
409-424, Pis.
XXII, XXIII.
G. ( 'atalogue of the Clausiliida> of the Japanese Empire.
Proc.
A .
X. S. Phila.. 1901, pp.
647-656 (1902).
7.
Additions to the Japane.se band Snail Fauna — \l.
Proc.
A.
A. ,S'.
Phila., 1902, pp.
360-382, Pis.
XVII-XXI.
8.
Additions to the Japanese T.and Snail Fauna— VII.
Proc.
A.
A .
^'.
Phtla., 1902, pp.
517-533, Pis.
XXVII, XXVIII.
9.
Additions to the Japanese band Snail Fauna— Mil.
I'roc.
A .
A .
S. Philu.. 1903, pp.
315-319, PI.
XIV.
10.
Xew Clausiliida; of the Japane.se Empire— X. Proc.
A. X. S.
Phila., 1904, pp.
809-838, Pis.
bll-bVII (1905).
11.
Xew Ciau.siliid* of the Japanese Empire— Xb Proc.
A .
A .
S. Phila.. 1907. pp.
479-513, PI.
XXXII-XXXIV (1908).
EXPLAXATIOX OF I'latk.s X X X 1 1, X X X 1 1 1 .
X X X 1 W Plate XXXII.
— Figs.
1-4.
— Claunilia inch/ta n. sp.
Figs.
5-8.
— Claustilia koniyaensis n. sp.
Fig.
9.
— Clansiilia enioi^pirn Pils., broken to show interior of la.^t wiiorl; f, fulcrum.
A. N. S., Xo.
84,898.
Fig.
10.
— ClauRilin hi/perapli/.r Pils.
Palatal view of tlie clausilium.
Figs.
11, 12.
— Clausilia iivinus Pils.
Clausilium of the ty])e. Pl.vtk XXXIIb— Figs.
13-19.— CVf'i/.si/iV/ diacophjx n. sj).
Figs.
20-24.
— CluuRilia o.ryj>omatica n. sp.
Figs.
25-29.
— C.lan.^ilia longiplicala n. sp.
Pl.\te XXXIV.— Figs.
30-'S3.— Clausilia dolichoplyx n. sp.
Figs.
34-37.
— Clausilia noviluna n. sp.
Figs.
38, 39.
— Clausilia noviluna, small forn\.
Figs.
40-42.
— Clausilia exulans n. sp.
Figs.
43, 44.
— Clausilia inrptsiluna n. sp.
Figs.
45, 46.
— Clausilia bivincta n. sp.
34 THE EARLY DEVELOPMENT OF A POLYCLAD, PLANOCERA INQUILINA Wh.
by frank m. surface.
Contents.
Introduction.
Materials and Methods.
Nomenclature.
The Li\'ing Eggs.
General Account of the Embryology.
The Unsegmented Egg.
The First Cleavage.
The Second Cleavage.
Segregation of the Ectoblast.
TMrd Cleavage.
Fourth Cleavage.
Fifth Cleavage.
Formation of the Fourth Qiiartet.
History of the First Quartet.
The Apical Cells.
Further Divisions of the First Quartet.
History of tlie Second and Third Quartets.
History of the Fourth Quartet.
The Mesoblast.
The Entoblast.
Discussion.
Summary.
Literature List.
Explanation of Plates.
Tables of Cell Lineage.
It gives me great pleasure to express my deep indebtedness to Prof. E. G. Conklin for his many suggestions and kind encouragement throughout this and other work.
I also wish to acknowledge the many favors I have received from the University of Pennsylvania by which this work was made possible.
My thanks are also tendered to the donor of the University of Pennsylvania room at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Holl during the summer of 1906.
Introduction.
Our knowledge of the development of the polyclad worms is based chiefly on the admirable works of Arnold Lang.
In his extensive monograph of this class of the Turbellaria, published in 1884, Lang has not only summarized the results of all previous investigators, but has himself added very materially to our knowledge of their embryology.
Previous students of polyclatl embryology have shown the undoul^tedly spiral nature of the cleavage up until a late stage of segmentation.
In this respect the de\'elopment of these platodes corresponds closely with the cleavage of annelidan and molluscan eggs.
Wilson (92) says (p. 439): "Up to a late stage in the spiral period (twenty-eight cells) every individual blastomere and every cell division is represented by a corresponding blastomere and a corresponding cell division in the embryo of the polyclad and in that of the gasteropod."
The same practically may be said of the annelid.
This striking resemblance in the early ontogeny of three great groups of animals should not be without some significance.
Yet, according to the accounts of these earlier investigators, the later history of the cells in the polyclad embryo differs very greatly from that of the apparently homologous cells in the annelids and mollusks.
The difference is so marked that Conklin (97) has characterized it as "very great, perhaps irreconcilable."
Wilson (92) has summarized this difference as follows (p. 441): "In the polyclad the first group of micromeres gives rise to the entire ectoblast, the second and third groups to the mesoblast, the macromeres to the entoblast.
In the mollusk and annelid, on the other hand, the second and third groups of micromeres give rise to the ectoblast, like the first set, and the mesoderm arises subsequentl3^" The formation of the ectoderm from the first quartet alone and of the mesoderm from the whole of the second and third quartets has been a serious stumbling block to those embryologists w^ho have attempted to establish cellular homologies.
Wilson in a later paper (94) has cited this case as the climax in the contradictions of comparative embryology.
A number of recent writers have expressed a doubt as to the correctness of Lang's interpretations.
Thus ilead (97) WTites (p. 289): "I am not convinced that the cells described by Lang do give rise to the mesoderm, and I believe it possible that the mesoderm of the polyclad is formed in the same manner and from exactly the same cell as in the annelids with unequal cleavage."
This was the state of affairs until 1898 when Prof. Wilson published in his paper on "Cell Lineage and Ancestral Reminiscences" some observations on a Pacific coast species of Leptoplana.
Wilson's investigations showed that Lang was wrong in certain particulars, but did not fulfill Mead's prediction with regard to the mesoblast.
Wilson found that each of the first three quartets of micromeres contributed to the formation of ectoderm, but also found that the mesoderm arose by inbudding from cells of the second quartet and possibly some from the third.
Wilson's work was not a detailed study of the development, and it lea\-es the impression that there may be something still undiscovered in the embryology of these interesting worms.
Most of Wilson's work and all of Lang's was on the living egg.
P]very student of embryology knows how luisatisfactory this method is for the late stages of segmentation, imless checked by properly fixed and stained material.
In view of these facts it has seemed worth while to enter into a more or less detailed account of the cell lineage of this form and gain, if possible, data to support or refute the theory of cellular homology.
Besides, such data should throw some light on the phylogeny of this class of the Turbellaria.
Lang has given so complete a review of the literature on polyclad embryology previous to 1884 that it would be mere repetition to go over that in detail here.
The earliest investigators were Girard (18461 854) , Vailliant ( 1 866-1 868) and Kef erstein ( 1 868) .
Of these the work of Keferstein was by far the best.
Three other investigators had studied polyclad development previous to 1884.
The first of these was Hallez (1878-1879).
Hallez recognized but one quartet of micromeres.
From this the ectoderm arose.
The macromeres budded off four small cells at the oral pole which he believed formed the mesoderm. '
He described four other later buds at the oral po\e which formed the wall of the gut.
The work of Goette (1878-1882) and Selenka (1881) followed close on that of Hallez.
Goette also observed but one quartet of micromeres in Stylochus pillidium.
When the ectoderm had reached the equator of the egg two to four small cells were formed at the oral pole (lower endoderm).
Later the large macromeres l^uddeil large cells towards the aboral pole.
These cells formed the upper endoderm.
From the upper and lower endoderm the wall of the alimentary canal was formed, while the lai-ge macromeres 'became food yolk.
Goette foiuid no mesoderm.
Selenka (1881) determined that two quai-tets were given off.
According to him the first formed ectoderm and the second the mesoderm.
Four small cells were formed at the oral pole (lower endoderm of Goette), from which he believed the entire wall of the alimentary canal was formed.
He found no upper endoderm.
Lang (1884) found that three quartets of micromeres were formed.
As already stated he believed the first formed the ectoderm, the second and third the mesoderm.
From the large macromeres four small cells were formed at the oral pole (lower endoderm).
Then each of the large macromeres (fourth quartet) budded towards the aboral pole an upper tMidoderni cell, as Goette had found.
He dcii\('<l tlic uliiiientary canal (i\nn the upper and lower endoderni cells, while the niacronieres (middle <'nd()(UM-ni) broke up into food yolk and were absorbed by the other cells.
All of the last four writers found that the posterior niacroniere behaved differently from the otlier three in that it divided with its luiclear s])indle lying horizontally, thus giving rise to five macromeres (foiu'th (piartet).
IMatkuial and Mktiiods.
The follow iiiii' paper is based u])on the study of a species of polyclad, rianocira inquilina, descril)ed l)y Prof. "Wheeler in 1894.
The material was obtained at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, ^Massachusetts, during the months of July and August of 1906.
Planoccra inquilina is i)eculiar among polyclads in that it leads an apparently parasitic life.
These worms are found in the branchial (•haml)er of the large whelk, Sycotypus canaliculatiis Gill.
As Wheeler suggests, it seems probal)le that they live on the excretory or waste products of this gasteropod.
No evidences that they feed on the tissues of the host have been found.
The adult worms were obtained in considerable abundance, averaging about three worms for every Avhelk opened.
The adult pol3'clads were transferred to dishes of sea water, in which the water was changed by means of a system of balanced syphons.
These syphons served to keep the water free from sand and dirt, and also prevented the overflow of the water and the escape of the worms.
The animals usually laitl eggs soon after being brought into the laboratory.
As described by Wheeler, the eggs are laid in spiral, g;elatinous capsules containing anywhere from 100 to 2,000 eggs each.
Each egg is surrounded by a separate egg membrane and the whole is imbetlded in tlie capsule material.
In many cases two eggs are deposited in a single egg membrane, both of which develop normally.
This is the usual way in which polyclad eggs are deposited.
The tough capsule is difficult to penetrate with fixing and staining reagents.
This fact no doubt is one of the chief reasons why so few embryologists have worked on polyclad development.
The eggs of Planocera inquilina seem more favorable in this respect, and with care it is possible to get very good preparations.
The egg capsules were deposited against the sides of the dishes, and it w'as necessary to cut them away with a scalpel.
WTieeler (94) did not succeed in getting the eggs of this species to develop under laboratory conditions.
On the contrary I experienced no difHcultv of this kind.
Stages from the maturation to the free swimming, Miiller's larvae were obtained without difficulty.
I do not know wherein my methods differed from Wheeler's.
He suggested that the water in the laboratory was too warm.
However I made no attempt to keep it cool, and in some cases the sun shone directly on the dishes without apparently affecting the eggs.
The adult animals however would live for only a few days.
After the first day they became very sluggish and their bodies began to break up in a manner similar to that descril^ed by "Wheeler.
Although I studied the question a good deal, I have never been able to ascertain where the eggs of this polyclad are laid imder natural conditions.
The animals w^ere laying throughout the entire simimer from June to September, yet I have never foimd a single capsule except when deposited in my dishes.
I have repeatedly searched the interior of the branchial chamber of the whelks in which adult worms were found, but to no avail.
I have also examined carefully the shells of these gasteropods, both inside and out, but no eA'idence of egg capsules was found.
I found that the worms always laid soon after being removed from the whelk to the dishes of sea water, and it is possible that this is the normal stimulus to egg deposition.
If such is the case the adult animals must deposit their eggs on stones or other smooth objects on the bottom.
In such a case both adult and young would have to rini the risk of again finding a Sycoti/pus and entering its branchial chamber.
The risk seems to be consideral)le, and the number of eggs deposited by an individual is perhaps hardly sufficient to warrant such an hypothesis.
The early divisions up to the forty-eightor fifty-cell stage were followed and figured in the living egg.
The eggs are rather opaque and it is difficult to iDe certain concerning many of the divisions.
This whole portion of the cell lineage was later gone over in the stained preparations and the previous observations on the living material were verified or corrected.
Eggs were fixed in various solutions, among which were sublimate acetic both ac[ueous and in 95 per cent, alcohol, Gilson's murcuronitric, picro-sulphuric, picro-acetic, Perenney's fluid and Flemming's solution.
Of these the sublimate-acetic mixtures and Gilson's fluid proved most valuable.
For staining whole mounts Conklin's (02) picro-hannatoxlyn was used.
Slightly stronger hsematoxlyn than reconniiended by Conklin was found better for these particular eggs.
The eggs were then cleared in xylol and mounted in balsam.
It was impossible on account of their small size to remove the eggs from the capsules, but it was found that they cleared better if the capsules were torn into small pieces.
In stiulying the cell lincaf^e the chief difhculty experienced was in not being able to rotate the eggs under the cover glass.
The eggs are not orientated in any definite direction within the capsules, and it was necessary to pick out for study those eggs which were favorably oriented.
Besides it is particularly difficult to determine the lineage of certain cells if one is able to view them from one side only.
The fact that the eggs could not be rotated accounts for some of the drawings being from a somewhat oblique view.
The results obtained from studying the whole mounts w'ere checked as far as possible by the use of serial sections.
It was found necessary to bleach the Flemming material with peroxide of hydrogen before sectioning.
A number of stains were used for the sections, but Delafield's haematoxlyn, either in toto or on the slide, proved most useful.
A combination of thionin and acid fuchsin also gave good results.
There is too much yolk in these eggs to use Haidenhain's iron-alunihsematoxlyn to advantage.
Nomenclature.
The system of nomenclature followed in the cell lineage of this paper is that used by Chabry (87), Wilson (92) and Conklin (97), wdth slight modifications.
This system is the same as has been used by Child (1900), Treadwell (1901), Casteel (1904), Nelson (1904), and many others.
For the sake of convenience the chief points are repeated here.
Each of the four quadrants of the egg is denoted by one of the first four letters of the alphabet.
The left quadrant is A, the anterior B, the right C, and the posterior D. The four macromeres form the basal quartet ; the first group of four micromeres to be separated from these is the first quartet, and so on.
A micromere is denoted by a lower case letter, while the capital letters are reserved for the corresponding macromeres.
The number of the quartet to which a micromere belongs is indicated by a coefficient, while the cell generation is shown by the exponent.
Of the two cells of any division of a micromere (except 4d), the one lying nearer the animal pole is regarded as the stem cell and receives the smaller exponent.
Thus 2a\ a cell of the second quartet in the A quadrant, will divide into 2a*-^ and 2a^-^.
2a' ' lies nearer the animal pole than 2a^-^.
2a^-^ will divide into 2a^-^-^ and 2a' ■^•^.
In the case of the divisions of the mesentoblast, 4rf, the lower cell is regarded as the stem cell and receives the smaller exponent (Conklin, 97).
A division is to the right, dexiotropic, if the upper cell lies to the right of the lower when viewed by an imaginar}'' observer situatofl at the animal pole and fa(*ui<i; the cell in question.
If the uj^per cell is to the left of the lower the division is Iseotropic ( Lillie, 95).
If the spindle is horizontal, i.e., the cleavage meridional, the cell to the right receives the smaller exponent.
Following Child (1900), the macromeres receive the coefhcient of the quartet to which they last contributed.
Thus 3A gave rise at its last division to 3o.
Further details of the system will become evident by reference to the tables of cell lineage and to the figures.
The Livixc; Eca;.
The living egg of Planocera inquilina consists of a uniformly dense mass of granules which vary only slightly in size, l^etween these granules is a light colored fluid substance.
When the one-celled egg is strongly centrifuged for some time the yolk granules are compacted to one side and a cap of the light colored fluid, in which are only a few granules, lies at the opposite side.
This cap of fluid occupies perhaps one-fourth or a little less of the entire egg.
When the egg is crushed under a cover glass and examined with an immersion lens, minute bodies (microsomes?)
are found in the fluid portion.
These small bodies exhibit a constant "brownian" movement.
When the egg is entire, however, no motion of any kind can be discerned.
The eggs of this species of Polyclad appear perfectly uniform throughout.
Helenka, Goette and Lang have found that in many polyclad eggs there is a darker iiuicr portion and a lighter outer layer to the eggs.
I could make out no such differentiation in these eggs.
Langdid not find this separation of substance in Discoadis tigrina.
Consideral)le time was spent during the summer attempting to experiment on these eggs.
But in all cases where the conditions were varied from the normal the egg dieil in a short time and no results were obtained.
All the early cleavages as well as the matiu'ation divisions occur at intervals of about one hour.
The whole development proceeds rather more rapidly than in most })olyclads.
At the end of the second day or at the beginning of the third the embryo is completely covered by the small ectodermal cells.
Cilia soon begin to form on these and by the third day the embryo begins to slowly I'otate within the capsule.
During the next day or two the cilia become better developed and the embryo rotates faster and faster.
The rotation takes place first in one direction and then after a short pause in another.
Occasionally they cease moving for S(niie time.
The eye spots appear al:)Out the fourth (lay.
During the foui'th and fifth days a number of homogeneous 1!)()7.]
NATllRAI.
SCIEXCES OF IMIILADELrHIA.
521 \-(»lk si)lu'i-ul(<s can !
)(• seen iiisi(l(> the ('iiil)ry().
IW the eml of tlie fiftli (lay the ciliated processes characteristic of the Miiller's larva' begin to appear and the embryo exhibits fre(|ueiit contractions of its body.
On the sixth day the larva> bejiin to ])urst through the egg membranes and to swim ai)out as typical Miiller's larva-.
1 did not succeed in keeping these larva> more than two or three days, during which time they seemed to undergo but little change.
General Accouxt of the Kmbryoi/xjv.
Following the example of many writers on embryology, it seems that the later detailed account can be made briefer and more readily understood if it is prefaced by a brief general sketch of the development.
The segmentation of the egg is total and slightly unequal.
From the first two divisions four cells result, of which one, the posterior, is slightly the largest.
Three quartets of micromeres are then given off in alternating dexiotropic and lajotropic directions.
The large cells of the basal quartet then bud ofT at their lower, vegatative pole four very small cells, which are to be regarded as the macromeres.
The large upper cells of this division form the fourth quartet.
The large posterior cell of this quartet, 4d, behaves very difTerently in its future divisions from the other three.
We may designate this cell as the "mesentoblast," following Conklin's nomenclature.
At the stage with forty-fomcells this mesentoblast buds into the interior of the egg a large cell.
4(1'.
Both of the mesentoblast cells then divide.
In these divisions the nuclear spindles lie horizontally.
From the lower pair of cells the greater part of the alimentary canal is derived.
The upper pair probably contribute a small amount to the alimentary canal, while the larger portion goes to form the mesoderm of the body.
In the later development the chief axis of the egg, i.e., the axis from the animal to the vegetative pole, becomes bent, so that the animal pole comes to lie at the anterior end of the embryo.
From the first (juartet arises the ectoderm, covering the anterior and dorsal jiortions of the body.
From cells of this quartet four strings of cells bud into the interior of the embryo and form the ganglion.
The eyes arise in ectodermal cells of this quartet.
The second <iuartet gives rise to the larger portion of the ectoderm on the ventral and posterior regions of the body.
From cells of this quartet is formed most of the ectodermal pharynx.
A portion of the second quartet is l)udded into the embryo and forms mesoderm.
From this source iU'ises probabh' only that mesoderm found around the l)lastopore and which is later concerned in the structures of the pharynx.
The third quartet consists of small cells from which apparently only ectoderm is derived.
The individual divisions of these cells ha-ve not been traced very far, but there is every reason to believe that they form ectoderm only.
The history of the fourth quartet is peculiar.
As already stated ^ the posterior cell 4d is the mesentoblast, from which the alimentary canal and a portion of the mesoderm arises.
The other three cells of the fourth quartet, 4a, 46 and 4c, do not divide as long as their history can be traced.
They, however, break up into a large number of homogeneous yolk spheres which are absorbed by the endoderm cells..
The large nuclei of these three cells can be traced until the alimentary canal is partl}^ formed.
The nuclei of the small macromeres show evidences of degeneration.
These do not divide as long as they can be followed.
They are carried into the embryo by the pharyngeal invagination of ectoderm, and it seems probable that they degenerate without giving rise to any morphological structure.
The Unsegmented Egg.
The unsegmented egg of Planocera inquilina is nearly spherical in shape and measures about one-tenth of a millimeter in diameter.
In many cases, however, the eggs are pressed out of their normal shape by crowding within the capsule.
The eggs when laid possess a large germinal vesicle wdiich lies slightly to one side of the centre (fig.
1).
This statement is not remarkable in itself, were it not for the fact that the eggs in the uterus of the adult possess a well-developed spindle with equatorial plate, centrosomes, etc.
Apparently this spindle never goes farther than the equatorial plate stage and then degenerates so that the egg when deposited possesses a germinal vesicle.
This phenomenon was first observed in certain polyclad eggs by Selenka (81d), and later Wheeler (94) has recorded it for this species.
Gardiner (99) has studied this phenomenon in Polycherus candaius and concludes that the uterine spindle is due to abnormal conditions of the adult.
I have not attempted to study this phenomenon in detail, but a casual survey shows that in animals which were fixed as soon as possible after removal from the whelk this uterine spindle was well developetl.
Since other animals from these same lots laid eggs which developed normally, one must conclude that if it is not a normal phenomenon it at least does not interfere with the later development.
Selenka (81f/) suggests that this spindle is of use in bringing the yolk granules to the centre of the egg, but, as Wheeler has noted, such could hardly be the case here, since the distrilnitiou of the yolk granules is uniform throughout the egg.
Wheeler (94) has stated that the impregnation is probably what Whitman (91) has called "hypodermic."
I have several times observed animals apparently in copulation.
In this act the two animals remain in contact for some time and move about together.
Most fre([uently the ventral sides of the animals were in contact.
Fertilization is necessarily internal, although the means by which the sperm reach the eggs is not known.
Two matiu'ation divisions occur after the egg is deposited.
The first occurs about one hour after deposition and the second about one hour later.
At eacli of these divisions the egg goes through some of the most remarkable contortions (fig.
2).
The egg becomes very irregular, and processes occur from all sides.
These processes consist of the more fluid substance and contain few yolk granules.
In many cases parts of the egg are cut off entirely.
In one case observed, the egg was actually cut into two, so that I first mistook it for a two-cell stage, but later these parts fused and it then imderwent normal development.
In some cases minute pieces seem to be cut off which do not fuse with the egg, for some time at least, but continue to float about between it and the egg membrane.
The movement of the egg substance is very slow.
It takes about twenty minutes for an egg to pass through such a contortion and regain its normal spherical shape.
The phenomenon is the same at each of the two maturation divisions.
Similar phenomena have been observed b}Hallez (79), Goette (S2) and Selenka (81) in other pol)^clad eggs.
Such ama'boid movements are also quite common in the eggs of other animals, especially annelids.
The First Cleava(;e. About one hour after the second maturation division the first cleavage furrow makes its appearance.
The spindle for the first cleavage lies near the centre of the egg.
The first two blastomeres are not of equal size, although the difference is slight (fig.
4).
In order to make certain that there is a recognizable difference, I have made a number of camera drawings both of living and stained eggs.
In all cases where it was not evident that the egg was pressed out of shape in its membrane the difference in size is quite easily recognized.
According to Lang (84) this difference in size of the first two blastomeres is very constant in polyclads.
Lang says (p. 330): "Ich habe diese allerdings wenig auffallende Verschiedenheit in der Grosse der zwei ersten J^lastomeren, die Selenka l)ci Thysaiiozoon luid Eur}-lei:»ta coiistatirte, niclit nur bei Discocclis tigrina, sondern auch bei alien Pseudt)ceriden unci Eurylepta nachweisen konnen.
Ich glaube, dass sie auch bei alien Leptoplaniden existirt, obschon sie hier schwer nachweisbar ist."
Since the polar l)odies do not remain attached to the animal pole, I have been unable to ascertain whether there is a rotation of the spheres, indicating that the first cleavage is spiral, as Conklin (97) has shown for Crepidula.
With the separation of the two cells their outlines become more or less irregular.
Especially along their line of contact <lelicate protoplasmic processes extend outward.
This is very much less marked than in the case of the maturation divisions, but there seems little doubt but that it is due to the same internal causes, whatever those may be.
The same phenomenon may also be observed in several of the next succeeding cleavages, i.e., at the fouror even eight-cell stage.
But with each successive cleavage the processes are smaller and more delicate and the phenomenon less marked.
The Second Cleavage — Two to Four Cells.
A little less than an hour after the first two cells have separated a furrow appears in each.
These furrows often appear sinuiltaneously, but in many cases one cell begins to divide in advance of the other.
Lang finds that in Discoccelis this is always the larger. "
Die Theilung erfolgt aber nicht ganz gleichzeitig, die grossere Furchungskugel theilt sich vielmehr etwas friiher als die kleinere."
In Planocera this succession is not so marked as in Discoccelis.
In mau}^ cases the two spindles are in the same phase at the same time.
The cells resulting from this second cleavage are much more unequal in size than those of the first division.
Each of the U\o cells buds off a smaller cell in a Iseotropic direction (PI.
XXXV, figs.
5 and 6).
As Lang has found in Discoccelis, the two spindles of this division cross at an angle.
Viewed from the side these spindles form an X (fig.
5).
It thus happens that the two smaller cells lie at a higher level than the two larger.
The former tend to meet in a point at the animal pole (fig.
6).
Before the next division they mo\'e downwards a short distance, so that a portion of the first furrow is visible between them and forms a short polar furrow.
Viewed from the vegetative pole the two larger blastomeres always meet in a line the so-called vegetative ])olar furrow ("Brechungslinie," Rauber (82), or " Querf urche," Rabl (79)).
As in the case of all dextral mollusks and in annelids, this polar furrow turns to the right when viewed in the plane of the first cleavage.
1907.]
NATUHAL SCIENCES OF I'lII LADEI.I'IIIA.
S'iS' The two siii;ill(MMastomcros, .1 and C, are approxiinatcl}' equal in size (fifr.
6).
while of the remaining two, one is significantly larger than the other.
The larger of these, i.e., the largest of the four cells, is the one denoted by /).
and lies on the posterior side of the egg.
The next largest cell, li.
is anterior, while the two smaller cells, A and C, are lateral in position.
It thus hajipens that the larger of the two blastonieres in the two-cell stage gives rise to the posterior and right blastomeres, /) and C, while the smaller forms the anterior and left blastonieres, li and ,1.
Thus the first cleavage separates the posterior and right sides from the anterior and left.
Tnnu) Cleava(;k — Four to I'^ioiit Celt>s.
Th(lliird cleavage is strongly dexiotropic.
The resulting cells, la, \h, ](• and 1(/, come to lie, when completely separated, in the furrows between the macromeres (fig.
8).
They retain this position only until after the next cleavage.
As has been found in the case of other spirally cleaving eggs, the resulting position of the blastomeres here is not due to surface tension alohe.
The s])indles from the moment of the breaking of the nuclear membranes indicate clearly the direction the cleavage is to take (comp.
fig.
12).
It is thus a phenomenon inherent in the cell structure, although surface tension no tlouljt plays a part in giving the blastomeres their final position.
The divisions of the four l)lastomeres do not usually take place synchronously.
Lang gives the following rhythm for Discocaiis.
The largest cell (D) divkles first, next the anterior large cell {B).
and after these have divided the lateral cells A and C divide at about the same time.
In Planocera inquilina as a greneral rule the same rhythm holds true, although there are often exceptions to it.
The spindles are usually i)resent in all four of the cells at the same time, but those of the two larger cells are nearly always more advanced.
The fact that in the great majority of cases this rhythm holds true is exceedingly interesting.
Lang (84) was the first to ])oint out that there was such a constant rhythm in the divisions of embryonic cells.
Lang found that not only did this succession hold good for divisions of the blastomeres where there is an actual difference in size, but also that the descendants of these cells divided in the same order (see quotation p. 526).
Since that time many other observers have found a more or less similar and constant rhythm in various animals, e.g., Lillie (95) in Unio, Jennings (96) in Asplanchna, Child (00) in Arenicola, and Nelson (04) in Dinophilus.
In Unio, Arenicola and Dinophilus the order is D, C, A, B; in Asplanchna it is D, C, B, A ; while in Discoccelis and Planocera it is D, B {A, C), the latter two cells dividing at about the same time.
It is evident that this is correlated with the larger size of certain blastomeres.
It is thus in contradiction to Balfour's (80) law, that a greater amount of yolk retards the rapidity of cleavage.
Kofoid (94) has suggested that this difference in rapidity of cleavage is due to the greater absolute amount of protoplasm in the larger cells.
In general this rhythm can be recognized for six or seven cleavages in Planocera, although, as stated, there are often exceptions to it.
The cells of the first quartet are only slightly smaller than the cells of the basal quartet (fig.
8).
The inequality, while sufficient to be easily recognized, is not so great in this species as in Discocoelis and most other polyclads.
Girard (54) has described the cleavage of Planocera elliptica as total and equal.
In all others so far as known it is unequal.
All the cells of the first quartet are approximately equal in size (fig.
8), notwithstanding the inequality of the cells from which they arose.
Of these cells in Discocoelis Lang says (p. 331) : " Anscheinend sind die vier Ur-Ectodermzellen [first quartet] gleich gross ; es ist aber sehr leicht moglich, dass sie in Wirklichkeit jihnliche Grossenunterschiede zeigen, wie die vier grossen Blastomeren .... well sie bei ihren weiteren Theilungen ganz genau demselben Rhythmus folgen, wie die vier grossen Blastomeren."
Fourth Cleavage — Eight to Sixteen Cells.
The next cleavage is initiated by the division of the largest of the macromeres, ID.
This division is followed very closely by the cleavage of IB (PI.
XXXVI, fig.
9).
Before the daughter cells 2d and 2b have been completely separated spindles appear in the two lateral cells lA and IC The formation of this second quartet takes place in a Iseotropic direction (fig.
9).
By the separation of these cells, the cells of the first quartet are pushed towards the left, thus in the opposite direction from which they were given off.
While the macromeres are dividing the fii'st quartet begins to divide, also in a Iseotropic direction (fig.
9).
These cells divide very nearly synchronously, but in very nearly all cases the spindle of the posterior cell Id is further advanced than that of the others (fig.
9).
The result of this division of the first quartet is eight cells very nearly equal in size (fig.
10).
When the divisions are completed the upper or apical cells have rotated almost 45 degrees to the left, so that they now occupy a position very nearly over their respective macromeres (comp.
fig.
12).
They would no doubt occupy such a position were it not for the inequality of the macromeres, which becomes more marked with the separation of each quartet.
The <listal cells of this division, viz., la^ 16^^ Ic^ and IcP, correspond in their method and time of origin to the "Trochoblasts" of annelids (Wilson, 92) or the "Turret cells" of mollusks (Conklin, 97).
Their future divisions correspond more closely perhaps to the trochoblasts.
Since, however, no structure directly homologous with the prototroch is recognizable in the polyclad larva?, we cannot say that these cells are homologous with those of annelids.
The cells of the second quartet are slightly smaller than the original cells of the first quartet.
Fifth Cleavage — Sixteen to Thirty-two Cells.
In the next cleavage each of the sixteen cells divides so that the ideal thirty-two-cell stage is realized.
Again the cells of the posterior <iuadrant D divide slightly in advance of the others.
The first cell to divide is the large macromere 2D, which sends off in a dexiotropic direction a small cell 3c/; 36 of the anterior quadrant is next separated off.
The other two cells of the third quartet may not come off until after the cells of the first and second quartets have divided (fig.
14).
The cells 2d and 26 begin to divide, shortly after the furrows for Sd and 36 are formed.
The divisions of the second quartet are nearly meridional, but, as PI.
XXXVII, figs.
16 and 19 show, the right cell is slightly higher than the left, so that the division is dexiotropic.
The lower distal cells, 2a^-2d', are the larger (fig.
16).
Before this division has proceeded far the apical or stem cells of the first quartet divide in a dexiotropic manner (fig.
12).
The distal cells, la^-^-lrf*-, are somewhat smaller than the remaining apical cells (fig.
13).
The former lie in the angles between the latter, and the cells la^-ld^ are pushed out until they lie opposite the ends of the apical cells.
By this time the other two cells of the third quartet, 3a and 3c, have usually been constricted off (fig.
14).
Next the remaining cells of the first quartet, la^-lf/^ (trochoblasts), divide in a dexiotropic manner.
In this case tlie lower distal cells, la^-^-bi^-^, are somewhat smaller than their stem cells (fig.
13).
At this stage the cells of the third quartet, 3a-3d, are the smallest cells present.
The formation of this third quartet in polyclad eggs was first observed by Lang, the older workers having overlooked it.
Lang calls this quartet the primitive mesoderm of the second order.
The thirty-two cells are distributed as follows: First quartet 16 cells.
Second quartet, 8 " Third quartet 4 " Basal quartet, 4 " 32 " From the above it is noticeable that the cells of the first (juartet show a tendency towards rapid division.
In a number of moUusks^ e.g., Neritvna (Blochman, 81), Unio (Lillie, 95), Crepidvla (Conklin, 97) and Fiona (Casteel, 04), the first quartet has divided only once before the third quartet is formed.
In Umbrella (Heymens, 93) and Urosalpinx (Conklin, 91) the first quartet does not divide at all until after the third is formed.
On the other hand, in the polyclads so far studied (Lang, 84), in N cries (Wilson, 92), Liniaz (Kofoid, 94), and in Dinophilus (Nelson, 04), the first quartet divides twice before or at the time the third is forming.
As Conklin (97) has pointed out, this indicates the general rate of development of the upper hemisphere.
In Planocera this is exceedingly rapid as its further history will show.
Formation of the Fourth Quartet — Thirty-two to Forty Cells.
After the thirty-two-cell stage the divisions become more or less irregular; certain cells divide several times before others divide at alL After the completion of the thirty-two-cell stage the next cells to divide are the large basal quartet cells, 3D and 3/1 The nuclei of these cells have moved from the upper to the lower edge of cells, and when the spindle forms it reaches from the centre of the cell downward to its lower margin (figs.
15 and 16).
These spindles are very nearly radial in position.
Concerning them in Discocoelis Lang says (p. 335): "Nur sehr schwach ist die Abschniirung in der Richtung einer rechts gewundenen Spirale (wenn wir das Ei so orientiren, dass der orale Pol unten, der aborale oben liegt, und der Beobachter in der Achse dcs Eies steht) angedeutet."
By comparing figs.
20 (PI.
XXW'II).
25 and 26 (11.
XXXVIII) and 30 (PL XXXIX), it will be seen that the small macromeres show a twisting towards the left as seen from below, thus showing that the fourth quartet arose by dexiotrojiic cleavage.
As may be seen from the spindles in fig.
15, the tm-ning of the spindle itself is very slight indeed.
As figs.
20, 25, 26 and 30 show, these lower cells are very small compared to the cells from which they arose.
Wilson (98) has designated these small cells the macromeres, and the large cells from which they arose the foiu'th tiuartet.
As will become evident later on, I have 1907.]
XATUHAli SCIK.\('i:>^ OF PIIir.ADELPIIIA.
529 additional evidence which points to this as the true iuterprotation.
Although the name "macroinere" is evidently a misnomer in this case, it nevertheless seems well to retain the name for these small, cells.
Wilson (98, p. 21) calls attention to the fact that these macromeres "are relatively not very much smaller than in some of the mollusks," for example Plo7iorhis (Rabl, SO).
Judging from the figures, however, the relative size of the cells varies considerably in different species of polyclads.
In Planocern inquUina these cells are relatively very small as compared to the fourth ([uartct.
Hallez (79) first interpreted these small cells at the oral pole (macromeres) as mesoderm.
Selenka in his earlier work called them pharyngeal cells, and in his later papers primitive endoderm cells.
Goette (82) and Lang (84) designate them as lower endoderm.
and believe that they give rise to part of the alimentary canal.
These four cells form one of the chief landmarks np until a very late stage of segmentation.
At a time when the ectoderm is well established in a layer, and just before it begins to invaginate at the lower pole to form the pharynx, one can still make out these four cells.
I"p until this time they have not divided.
Their later history is exceedingly difficult to follow.
I am inclined to the view that these cells do not take part in the formation of any structures in the embryo of Planocera, but that they degenerate and that their substance is absorbed by the endoderm cells.
The reasons for this view are, first, that they cannot be traced to any organ, and, secondly, that the nuclei of these cells from the time of their formation until the last trace that can be found of them show increasing evidence of degeneration.
Soon after these cells are formed it can be seen that the chromatin is massed on one side of the nucleus in a dark staining mass (figs.
17 and 20, PI.
XXXVII, and fig.
25, PI.
XXXVII, etc.).
It is this marked evidence of degenerating nuclei that enables one to follow these cells even until the ectoderm has reached.
this pole of the egg.
In the other nuclei of the egg the chromatin is more or lessevenly distributed in granules often along distinct linin threads.
We thus have the remarkable and unique phenomena of the "maa-omeres"' deqeneratiwj icithoid giving rise to any part of the embryo.
Evidently the function of the macromeres in this case has been taken over by the cells of the fourth ({uartet.
These latter cells, as the figures show, are by far the largest cells in the embryo and contain the great bulk of the food yolk.
In fact three of these cells, 4a, 4b and 4c, probably function entirely as the bearers of yolk, and if they do take part in the formation of the alimentary canal it is only a minor part.
The history of the other member of the fourth quartet, 4d, is of especial interest and will 35 be dealt with later.
From the fact that this cell gives rise to both endoderm and mesoderm we may call it the " Mesentoblast " (Conklin, 97).
History of the First Quartet — Apical Cells.
After the first two macromeres, 4B and 4D, are formed and before the other two cells, 3/1 and 3C, have divided, spindles appear in the four stem cells of the first quartet, la^-^-ld^-^.
The division of these cells takes place in a very marked laeotropic direction.
The results of this division are four very small cells, la^-^-^-ld^*-^, lying at the proximal end of the spindle or just over the animal pole, and four much larger distal cells, W-'-'-ld'-'\ As fig.
18, PI.
XXXVII, shows, the Inotropic direction of the spindle is so marked that the cell la^-^-^ comes to lie in front of Id^-^'^ and 1¥-^-^ in front of la*-^-^ and so on, so that there is a rotation of 45 degrees.
These small cells at the animal pole have been observed by Selenka and Lang in polyclads, and designated by Selenka as the apical or crown cells (Scheitelzellen).
Selenka described these cells as arising from the stem cells of the first quartet, i.e., la*-^-l<i^-^, as I have done.
Lang, on the other hand, says that they arise from the cells which alternate with these stem cells, i.e., ae^, he^, ce^ and de^ of his system, or la*-^, 16^-2, Ic^-^ and Id^-^ of our system.
He states that these cells W-^-ld^-^ send in processes between the stem cells, and from the ends of these processes the small apical cells arise.
Lang describes this process in considerable detail, and while it is possible he is right for Discoccelis tigrina, I think it is very unlikely.
Lang's observations were all made on the living eggs and not checked with stained material.
I first observed these divisions in the living egg of Planocera and came to the same conclusion as Lang, viz., that the apical cells came from the cells la^-^-ld^'^.
It was only later when I studied the preserved material of this stage that it became unmistakably evident that it was the stem cells la^-^-ld^-^ that were dividing (fig.
18).
The appearance in the living egg is very deceptive owing to the great angle through which the spindles turn and to the small size of the resulting apical cells.
These apical cells consist of a well-formed, normal-sized nucleus and a very small amount' of cytoplasmic material.
In the stained eggs it is only seldom that one can see anything at all of the cell boundaries.
Consequently in most of the drawings only the nuclei of these cells are represented.
I, In their method and time of origin and in their relative size these cells correspnml closely with the "apical rosette" of annelids.
In Dinophilus (Nelson, 04) these cells arise by exactly the same division as in Planocera.
In Nereis (Wilson, 92) they arise one division earlier, i.e., by the division of la*-ld^ In many moUusks, cells of this same lineage la*' *-lrf'-'-^ are not formed until much later in the development, e.g., in Crepidula at the eighty-eight-cell stage, in Fiona at the sixty-four-cell stage, etc.
The formation of these small apical cells in the polyclad embryo is an interesting and significant phenomenon, marking in another detail the close resemblance between the early cleavage of these platodes and that of annelids and moUusks.
The fate of the apical rosette in the majority of annelids is the formation of an apical sense organ with an apical tuft of cilia.
In CapiteUa (Eisig, 98) and Dinophilus (Nelson, 04) the apical plate does not bear a tuft of cilia.
Conklin (97) finds that these cells form an apical sense plate in the Crepidula veliger, without, howe-ver, bearing a bunch of large cilia.
As to the ultimate fate of these cells in Planocera, I must again disagree with the previous students of polyclad embryology.
Both Selenka (81) and Lang (84) state that these cells sink down and are finally covered over by the other ectoderm cells.
Thus Lang (p. 337) says : '' Ihre Abschniirung geschieht nicht ganz gegen den aboralen Pol zu, sondern etwas nach innen, gegen die Furchungshohle, so dass sie, wie auch Selenka bemerkt, den Bod en einer napfartigen A'ertiefung am aboralen Pol bilden Da spater in der Nahe der Stelle, an der sich die Scheitelzellen gebildet haben, in besonderen Zellen des Ectoderms die Augen entstehen, so ware es moglich, dass aus ihnen Theile des Nervensystems, vielleicht der sensorielle Theile des Gehirns (oberes Schlundganglion?)
entstiinden."
Again, I believe the deceptive conditions of the living egg have led both Selenka and Lang astray.
It is true that by reason of the small size of these apical cells the surrounding cells somewhat overtower them and form a "bowl-like depression" (PI.
XXXVII, fig.
21).
However I do not find, as Lang states, that by the further division of the first quartet cells the apical cells are covered over and so sink beneath the surface of the ectoderm.
In focusing on an egg from the animal pole in stages shown in PI.
XXXVIII, figs.
22, 23 and 24, the first nuclei to come into view are those of the apical cells.
Furthermore these cells tend to move out from the animal pole and remain on the surface (figs.
24, 29, 31).
In the later stages of segmentation they cannot be definitely distinguished from other cells of the same size which come to lie near them.
The further diA'ision of the ectoderm cells in this region do not show any indications of covering over these cells.
I believe that these apical cells form a part of the ectodermal covering of this region of the embryo.
And furthermore I believe that these are the first of a series of divisions occurring from now on in all the ectodermal cells, by which a small epithelial cell is cut off towards the exterior and a larger cell remains somewhat deeper down.
It is l^y this kind of divisions that nearly all of the later ectodermal layer is formed.
These divisions will be discussed farther on in this paper.
Whether these apical cells form a definite sense organ or not I am unable to say.
It is in this region, as Lang points out, that the eyes arise and that later the tentacles of the adult appear.
However, the exact fate of these cells is mere speculation, since I have found it impossible to distinguish them in the late segmentation.
Further History of First Quartet.
We have so far followed the divisions of the first quartet until it is composed of twenty cells, and to the time when there are forty cells in the embryo.
The last cells to be formed were the small apical cells, la^-^-^-ld^-^-^.
Very soon after this the cells la^'^-ld^-^ divide in a dexiotropic manner into two almost equal cells.
The lower cells, la^-^-^-ld}-^"^, appear slightly smaller than the upper cells (figs.
21, 22).
Next, and sometimes coincident with the last division, spindles appear in the large cells la^-^-^-ld}-^-^.
These divide in a dexiotropic direction into two very unequal cells (figs.
22, 23).
The upper cells, la^-^-^-^Id}-^-^-^, are much the smaller and lie on the surface of the egg between the cells la^-^-^-^-ld^-^-^-^ (fig.
24).
While this division is occurring the cells la^-^-ld^-^ are dividing in a laeotropic direction (figs.
22, 23).
Shortly after these divisions are completed the cells la^-^-ld^-^ divide dexiotropically (fig.
24).
In this case the lower cells, la'-^-^~ld^-^-, form very small cells which lie on the surface of the egg (figs.
24, 27).
At this time there are thirty-six cells in the first quartet and about sixty-six cells in the entire embryo.
This fact indicates clearly the very rapid development of the upper hemisphere.
In Crepidula at the sixty-eight-cell stage there are only sixteen cells in the first quartet.
In Fiona at a similar stage there are twenty cells in this quartet.
In Nereis at the fifty-eight-cell stage there are thirty-two cells in the first quartet, and a similar number in DinopJiilvs at the sixty-five-cell stage.
Soon after the last division the cells la^-^-^-^-ld^-^-^' divide again in a slightly dexiotropic direction (fig.
28).
This time the distal cells, 2^i.i.2.2.2_j^i.i.2.2.2^ are the smaller and lie opposite the cells from whicli thoy have heon derived (I'l.
XXXIX, fi<;s. 29, 31).
At this time there are three circles of four small cells each, lyiiiR on the surface of the e^g and arranged around the animal pole (figs.
29, 31).
These twelve cells have been derived by three successive divisions of the large stem cells of the first ciuartet, la^-*-l(^'\ The imier circle consists of the small apical cells already described.
The middle circle consists of the cells ]^,i.
1.2. i_l^/i.
1.2.1 ^yi)i(^.i^ ^yei-g derived next and are the largest of these twelve cells.
The outer circle was derived at the last division described.
At the next division of these stem cells four more small cells are cut off to the exterior.
At the same time that the last division described is occurring, the cells la^-'-l(/'---^ divide in a keotropic direction (fig.
28) into nearly equal moieties.
With the completion of the above divisions there are forty-four cells in the first ciuartet, eleven in each quadrant.
After a short resting period the cells ia*-i-2i_i(/i-i-2-2.i^ w^hich have been so activel)' dividing, prepare to divide again.
This time they bud into the interior of the egg four comparatively large cells, iai-i-2.2.i.2_2^i.i.2.2.i.3^ the primitive ganglion cells.
The outer smaller cells of this division, j^,i.
1.2.2. i.i_j^^i.
1.2.2.
1.1^ form the fourth circle of small cells about the animal pole.
This is as far as I have been able to follow accurately the divisions of these cells, and it is possible that the cells here designated primitive ganglion cells may still bud one or two generations of ectoderm cells to the exterior.
The four cells which are to form the ganglion divide repeatedly.
Their individual divisions have not been traced, but four strings of cells can be distinguished for some time, each of which is the result of the subdivision of one of these primitive ganglion cells.
These ganglion cells lie at first just above the mesoderm cells, 4(P-^-^ and 4cP-^-^, and it is extremely difficult to differentiate the later divisions of these cells.
In the divisions of this first quartet we have had a number of examples of the process already alluded to, in w^hich a very small cell is budded to the exterior of the egg and partially covers the larger, deeper Ijang moiety.
Other examples of this same phenomenon will be described in the history of the second quartet.
The four sets of four small cells each "which, beginning with the apical cells, are budded off in rapid succession from the large stem cells of the first quartet ,la^-^Id}-^, are among the more striking examples of this phenomenon.
These sixteen cells (and possibly more) very nearly cover the aboral surface of the egg, and by their further divisions the ectoderm of this region is formed.
Other cells of this first quartet show the same process more or less strikingly.
For instance, by the divisions of la'-'-ld--^ a very small cell is cut off at the lower edge (figs.
24, 27).
The same is true of the divisions of la^-^-lcPK On the other hand the cells la^-^-ld}-^ do not show such an unequal division.
These latter cells have been traced accurately through only three or four divisions, but the resulting cells are all more or less equal in size and apparently wall enter directly into the formation of the ectoderm.
This latter process, i.e., the equal division of the ectoderm cells, is much more in accord with what haii been found in annelids and mollusks than is the former.
History of the Second and Third Quartets.
Just after the formation of the apical cells, and at about the time the large cells SA and 3C are dividing, the larger cells of the second quartet, 2a^-2(P, divide in a nearly vertical direction (fig.
17).
In many cases^ the spindles show a slight dexiotropic tiu'n.
Since the resulting distal cells 2a'^-^-2(P-^ come to lie in the furrows between the large cells of the fourth quartet, they are somewhat shifted in position to accommodate themselves to the inequalities of these large cells.
It thus happens that after the cells are separated some may be to the right of the upper cell and others to their left.
The division is always nearly radial, but is still to be considered as belonging to the series of spiral divisions.
With this w^e have traced the divisions of the second quartet until there are twelve cells present, three in each quadrant and all on the surface of the egg.
Just after the mesentoblast cell has divided for the first time the cells 2a^-2d} divide almost vertically but in a slightly Iseotropic direction.
The lower or distal cells, 2a^-^-2d'^'^, are very much smaller than the upper ones (fig.
21).
The former lie on the surface of the latter.
This is another example of the cutting off of a small cell to the exterior.
At about this time, sometimes before and sometimes afterwards, the small cells 2a?-'^-2<p-'^, lying in the furrows between the four primary cells of the fourth quartet, divide.
The direction of the nuclear spindle is nearly vertical (figs.
26, 27).
The two cells seem nearly equal in size.
The lower cells, 2a^-'^-^-2d?-'^-^, reach almost to the upper edges of the macromeres (figs.
26, 30).
The descendants of these cells are the first to reach the lower pole of the egg, and form Avithout a doubt a considerable portion of the ectodermal pharynx.
Shortly after these two divisions the large cells of the second quartet,.
2a?-^-2d?\ divide in a dexiotropic manner, the two cells varying only slightly in size (figs.
25, 27).
At this time there are twenty-four cells in the second quartet, six in each quadrant, and about seventy-eight cells in the entire embryo.
So far all the cells of this quartet lie on the surface of the ejip;.
At the next division in this quartet however the cells 2a'*-2d'' cut off a small cell to the exterior and the major portion of the larger cell pushes inwards (figs.
30, 32), so that they become almost covered by the surrounding cells.
Unfortunately I have not been able to follow the further divisions of these cells with certainty.
At a later stage one finds one or two more small cells lying over these larger, deeper lying ones.
For this reason I am led to suspect that these cells bud off one or two more ectoderm cells.
The major portions of these four cells remain on the interior of the egg and form a portion of the mesoderm.
Since these cells when first budded in are well towards the lower (oral) side of the egg, it is very probable that they form a portion of the mesoderm around the blastopore.
In later stages (PL XL, figs.
36-39) a considerable amount of mesoderm is found in this region.
This later supplies the muscles and other mesodermal structures connected with the pharynx.
The other mesoderm cells found just beneath the ectoderm in these stages are derived from the divisions of -id, as will be descril)ed shortly.
This account of the second quartet agrees closely in its main features with that of Wilson (98) for Lcptoplana.
Wilson, however, believed that these second quartet cells, on the interior, multiplied rapidly and formed the entire mesoderm of the body.
The development of the remainder of the mesoderm will })e dealt with farther on, and it need only be pointed out here that this account confirms Wilson's with regard to ectoderm arising from the second quartet.
In contradiction to Lang (84), who believes that the whole of the second and third quartets formed mesoderm, we find here only a relatively small portion of the second quartet budding to the interior.
By far the greater bulk of this quartet is ectodermal.
With regard to the third ([uartet, this is in all i^robabilit}' entirely ectodermal.
The cells of this quartet when first formed are relatively very small.
These cells divide in a nearly radial direction (slightly dexiotropic) at about the seventy-four-cell stage (fig.
26).
Further divisions of this quartet have not been traced accurately.
At later stages, however, one or both of these cells in each quadrant have divided and all their progeny remain on the surface.
There is no indication that any of these cells pass to the interior.
Their small size and epithelial character indicate that they are purely ectodermal.
History of the Fourth Quartet — The Mesoblast.
Shortly after the apical cells are formed and the cells 2a--2(P have 3SJ* cs' "^^'^g^ ACjLr:ocr cs" P>ee^ Jt — v^ riJfcZjr zcssrr^ ~ 2 ^2" za:=_ ZJLsr*:<e.
sEaar is 1.
1-^ .t— .-r -^sit T-ar '3EiI -=f-.
Very t;*r-w^sL "seise"SW"> eels T^g^ :S gr>'t 3i'JiiETi ^ iiis s'.-± ss»^-^ 2= -•^ "SLse ■=C-:2i.
"-«^y^i -r«s ;;— tf r€g^~.-ir -iiT^ea CS 43.
Si ^=^n?gagjBr to %rr "^ ?
*: 5sr ir2»iei ate •!ET:£;ir:s ir ^=1 tziti.
Tr<=r gsrsf : Two of liiCse their frrt»!r»r '_ ':-'s^3k,-i#-*«id4:--liee: lanes* !
]r m nuBtJi tobaiga v€sy .
3ij.
Tto T^sy wnrj&jip eelite.
Ait-^ SEti -feF-*^, are £^~5raT5 jiTiijv jn^ pio6ii?5i'':jr iio t&ie tott hsnge -£ in -i2i)£: i£i0stases.
la fact' tbese tv-'O) ■ re ^.a.g :: eni m^mi eeik.
rpom tiisr posr frcni i£i€ tiie iDssodescm ©ajs.
iisre usa^ssaei to tins' azies cc ^i!
:; T-;-; ''1^—25 CC <^g» j>e seesa.
L-jinig jiei leiir'^ itl rjCie ' •=?^.^.' ust^r £2iti mi€2iseirr siaiisijis' ;i ntzas-ii/S 'r.^nr .
tii<e c^tiaeT d^*?ei:hiii2ii£ <qb -^ imjt^ "faywsras Tt-e .
__rr ftpfe 43^-asad 4iF-^-^, ir-i:_ li^se =^^^-" s aiTifee.
ai^ x£:'''5r ermreSr na^ailiflasiacAfter m ^ort _ 4£F^^ ssii 4^-„ fr.
-Si Tbe inadea ce ihesr sn 4dr^-irii-ijF-^-".ssa2ii divide.
T_ and 4c are shown in dotted outline.
Just posterior to the nucleus of 46 lie the two small cells 4c/^-^-^ and 4cp-^-^ with the darker staining nuclei.
Just posterior to these cells are the slightly larger cells 4d^-^-^ ' and 4d^-^-^-^ mentioned above.
Finally, extending dorsally and anteriorly from each of these are two cells wiiich represent the results of the division just mentioned and for which the spindles are shown in figure 34.
The resemblance to the so-called "mesoblast bands" of annelids and mollusks is, I think, evident.
In many cases, however, the "band" formation is not so marked as in this egg, which was chosen for drawing on account of its regularity.
In many cases the mesoP.S.c ■mac Fig.
2.
— Schematic optical section of an egg viewed from the posterior side.
To show the relation of the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm.
Mes.
1, Mesoderm derived from 4d^.
Mes.
2, Mesoderm derived from second quartet cells.
JS'nd., Endoderm from 4d'.
e, Entoblasts from 4d^.
p. gr.
c. Primitive ganghon cells.
blast cells do not form such evident bands.
Instead the nuclear spindles in the cells 4d^-^-^-^ and 4(^2-2.2.2 ]jg g^^ varying angles.
This is shown by the direction of the spindles in these cells in fig.
34.
The result tends to be a cluster of cells rather than symmetrical bands.
The lineage of these cells becomes too involved to trace further with any accuracy.
They lie well towards the dorsal side of the egg, and become more or less confused with the cells which are now budding in from the first quartet to form the ganglion.
Nevertheless a fairly definite group of cells can be found in this region during several of the succeeding stages.
I have attempted to represent something of the 1907.]
53^ relation of those cells in the liiugramatic optical section (text fig.
2).
Text fig.
3 represents an actual optical section of a somewhat later stage.
Here the large nuclei of 4a, 4b, and 4c are again shown, while lying just above them is a group of mesotlerm cells derived from the division of -icF.
The mesoderm now consist of a large number of cells.
From this time on these begin to spread out and gradually form a layer of cells lying just beneath the ectoderm.
While 1 have not been able to follow the exact lineage of these cells, I think there is no doubt that the greater portion of the mesoderm of the body arises from the posterior mesoblasts, while as stated before only the mesodermal structures in the region of the pharynx arise from cells of the second quartet.
Mies 2 mes.
I end.
mes .9 tndc Fig.
3.
-Optical section of an egjz; viewed from the posterior side, end, Group of endoderm cells derived from 4<:/^ Below these are the degenerating nuclei of the four niacronieres.
Near the middle of the egg are the three large nuclei of 4o, Ah and 4r.
Above these are shown the nuclei (stipled) of a few of the mesoderm cells derived from A(P, mes.
1.
Toward the vegetative pole are mesoderm cells derived from the second quartet, mes.
2.
Text fig.
3 shows a number of cells lying further towards the vegetative pole than the derivatives of 4cP have yet reached.
These cells undoubtedly arise from the further proliferation of the second quartet cells, 2a*-*-^-2(Z**-^, which, as we have shown (p. 535), were budded into the interior of the embryo (cf.
fig.
32).
These second quartet cells, 2a' ■^•^-2f/^-*-^, when first formed lie considerably below the equator of the egg.
With the overgrowth of the ectoderm they are carried further clown to the region of the l)lastoporo.
Thus the large group of mesoderm cells found later around the i)har3'nx arise, in large part at least, from the second quartet cells.
It is, however, quite possible that some of the derivatives of 4:dr later wander into this region also.
We have now followed the history of the mesoderm from its origin until it forms a layer of cells about the embryo just beneath the ectoderm.
We may leave the discussion and comparison with other forms until after we have traced the history of the endoderm.
The Extoblast.
The alimentary canal of the polyclads has been derived in various ways by different investigators.
Vaillant (68) and Keferstein (68) observed that at the time the embryo began to rotate within its membranes there was a mass of roundish fat-like spheres on the interior.
Hallez (78 and 79) observed drops of an egg-white-like substance on the inside of the embryo, surrounded by a one-cell layer of the alimentary canal.
The cellular elements of the canal he derived rather doul^tfully from the four small cells at the oral pole (macromeres).
Selenka (81c) came to a similar conclusion, i.e., that the entire canal arose from the four small "primitive endoderm cells" (macromeres).
These were carried into the embryo by the pharyngeal invagination and rapidly spread over the large yolk cells (fourth quartet).
According to this investigator these yolk cells break up without nuclear division into a large number of yolk spherules and serve as food for the developing endoderm.
They give rise to no morphological structure of the embryo.
Selenka (81) says that as soon as "die Nahrungsdotterzellen in ein Dutzend oder mehr ungleich grosse kernlose Kugeln zerfallen sind.
beginnen die vier Ur-Entodermzellen (macromeres) ihre Theilung und Wanderung.
Zunachst strecken sie sich in die Lange, entsenden Ausliiufer und breiten sich auf den benachbarten Dotterkugeln aus."
Goette (82) in Stylochus pillidium finds, as already mentioned, vipper endoderm cells.
From these and from the middle endoderm cells (fourth quartet) small cells are separated, which at first contain some of the fat-like yolk.
This soon disappears in these cells and the)' come to form a definite layer of endoderm.
The small lower endoderm cells (macromeres) also take part in forming this layer.
Targe drops of the homogeneous yolk substance separate from the large middle endoderm cells and are gradually absorbed by the cells of the canal.
Lang (84) in Discocoelis, it will be remembered, also finds an upper endoderm as well as a lower and a middle layer.
Like Selenka, he no longer finds any nucleus in the large cells (foui-th quartet) after the upper ami lower eii<li»(leriii have separated off.
^\'ith regard to the inidtlle endoderni cells he says, ]).
35G: "Die in ihnen enthaltenen grobeii Dotterkonier scheinen mitcinaiider zu verschmelzen so dass tlie in Frage stehenden Zellen das Aussehen von beinahe honiogenen, stark lichtljrechender Fettkugeln l^ekamen.
Ich habe in diesen Kiigeln bei ihrem zerfall nie Anij)hiastcr sieh bilden sehen.
obschon ieli aiifnierksani danach gesucht habe."
The breaking up of tliese yoHc cells is very irregular.
The wall of the alimentary caiuU, according to Lang, is formed by the cells of the upper and lower entloderm.
'J'hese increase by division and extend over the yolk spheres.
Finally they unite to form a definite layer in which the cell l)oundaries cannot be distinguished.
The endoderm cells have a more or less amoeboid character and send out protoplasmic processes over the numerous 3'olk spheres.
According to him the middle endoderm (fourth quartet) contains onl}^ yolk granules and does not take part directly in the formation of any organ.
Throughout all these accounts one or two phenomena are constant.
e.g., the yolk breaks up into a large number of spherules which are later absorbed by the endoderm cells.
Witii regard to the development of the canal itself there is some variation.
In all the accounts at least a portion of the canal is derived from the lower endoderm (macromeres).
In some cases (Stylochus and Discoccelis) upper endoderm cells are formed from the large j'olk cells.
The account which I have to offer of the development of the alimentary canal in Planocera inquUina differs from any of the above in several particulars.
At the time when the mesoblasts, Ad-'^and 4d^---^, are preparing to divide, the two large entoblasts, Ad}'^ and Ad^'\ are dividing (fig.
33).
By this division two large cells, Ad'^'^and Ad^'^-, are budded into the interior of the embiyo.
Soon after this these cells divide again.
At a considerably later stage the two cells Ad^-^-^ and Ad^"^-^, -^vhich remained on the surface after the last division, divide again, budding two more large cells into the lower ])art of the embryo.
At this time or shortly afterwards the ectoderm has covered this region, and all six cells and their descendants originally derived from the two primitive entoblasts, Ad^-^ and 4rf'-^, are on the interior of the egg.
Text fig.
3 shows in optical section an egg of a considerabl}' later stage, in which a number of cells are lying just above the vegetative pole.
These cells, of which there are several more in the egg, all came from the primitive entoblasts, 4f/'-^ and 4c/'-.
By examining a large nunib(Mof eggs it is found that these cells are in very active division and soon a large group of cells is found in this region (cf.
fig.
36).
A careful study of the eggs themselves leaves no doubt but that they all arise from the primitive entoblasts.
PI.
XXXIX, fig.
33, shows the spindles for the first division of these cells.
I have repeatedly found eggs showing the second and later divisions of these cells, but in every case it has been found impossible to make an intelligible drawing of the egg.
The fact that these eggs cannot be rotated under the cover glass has added greatly to the labor of finding eggs suitable for study or drawing.
In this case it has effectually blocked all attempts to portray a certain stage.
The material itself, however, leaves no doubt that the divisions take place as described.
I have attempted to embody the essential facts of these divisions in the schematic text fig2.
During all this time the very large nuclei of the three anterior cells of the fourth quartet, 4a, 4b and 4c, can still be found (fig.
34).
Previous to this time there has been some shifting of the relative positions of the fourth cjuartet cells.
At the time the mesentoblast cell is budded into the interior (fig.
19) all the foiucells of this quartet lie in nearly the same plane.
The two lateral cells, 4a and 4c, are perhaps slightly higher than the others.
When 4d^ divides bilaterally these two cells overlap 4a and 4c.
With the further development of the mesentoblast on the interior of the egg and the ectoblast on the outside, the large cell 46 is pressed upwards.
A narrow process from this cell runs along the centre of the egg, and in this, reaching almost from one side of the process to the other, lies the enormous nucleus of 46 (figs.
32 and 34).
The nuclei of 4a and 4c are also pressed up along the sides, but not so high as that of 46.
These three cells are closely crowded together, and while their boundaries remain distinct for some time (fig.
32) they tend to become obliterated.
In the meantime an interesting process has been going on within these cells.
As has been noted by all previous students, the yolk granules tend to fuse together, thus forming homogeneous fat-like drops.
As Selenka and Lang have noted, this breaking up of the yolk is not accompanied by nuclear division.
The process is more or less irregular, but one or two regular features can usually be recognized.
The first one of these spherules to be formed is from the anterior and ventral portion of the cell 46.
At first the centre of these spheres is composed of granules, while around its periphery the granules dissolve into a fluid substance.
Soon j^fterwards smaller spheres appear in this cell and in 4a and 4c.
No nuclear division is concerned in this process, for the undivided large nuclei of all three of these cells can be followed 1907.]
543 to a much later period.
In or near the centre of many of these yolk spheres a diffusely staining substance can be found when the egg is well stained and cleared.
This is not a nucleus, for it has no regular boundaries anil often several such bodies are seen in a single yolk spherule.
They do not stain deeply, but appear as a sort of cloudy material.
These botlies may be merely the small portions of cytoplasm remaining in these large cells or, what seems more likely to me, they may be of the nature of nuclear sap.
If they were of a cytoplasmic nature there is no reason why they should not show in earlier stages.
Instead they became evident only after the yolk begins to break up into spherules.
In many respects they resemble the archiplasmic material often found around a nviclcus just after the nuclear memend Fig.
4.
— Transverse section of an embryo, showing the ciUated lumen of the alimentary canal.
The endoderm cells are spreading over the yolk spheres.
end., endoderm; mes., mesoderm; ph., pharynx; y., yolk.
brane has broken.
Further, the large nuclei, which are at first spherical, in the late stages become irregular in shape or even very much shrunken (fig.
35).
That these yolk granules should be broken up through the action of enzymes coming from the nucleus is not at variance with the modern views of nuclear activity.
In such a case it seems probable that this material would become aggregated at those places where the most rapid dissolving action is going on.
This offers an explanation for the relatively enormous size of the nuclei of these three cells.
These nuclei do not show evidences of degeneration; instead the chromatin granules can be seen scattered through the nucleus, often along distinct linin threads.
After the ectoderm has covered the lower hemisphere of the egg it begins to invagiiiate in the region of the four small niacromeres.
The ectoderm pushes in and forms a small tube, which later becomes the ])harYnx.
Previous to this invagination the endoderm cells derived from the divisions of 4c/^-^ and 4(/'have formed a solid mass of cells in the lower part of the embryo (fig.
36).
Soon after the invagination starts, the beginning of a lumen in the endoderm cells is apparent by the separation of the cells (fig.
37).
This lumen rapidly becomes large and ciliated throughout (PI.
XL, figs.
38, 39, text fig.
4).
The canal is at first bent towards the posterior side of the larva (fig.
38), but with its further development and enlargement it pushes forward under the ganglion (fig.
39).
Distinct cell boundaries can seldom be made out in the endodermal portions of the canal.
The inner borders of these cells surround the large yolk spherules.
In many cases amoeboid cells can be seen spread out on the surface of these yolk spheres.
In the oldest larvse which I was able to obtain (fig.
39) the canal showed noindications of the lateral branches which become evident in the adult worm.
In these larvae some of the reduced yolk spheres are still jiresent.
From the account I have given it will be seen that practically all of the alimentary canal is derived from the two primary entoblasts, 4d^-^ and 4d^-".
Certainly the larger portion of the canal has such an origin.
There are three other possible sources of a portion of the canal, although no one of these forms any considerable amoimt of it.
One is that the pair of small cells, 4cF'^-^ and 4d^-\ derived from the further division of the mesentoblast, may form a small portion of the endoderm.
The chief reason for suspecting this, is that these cells are formed and remain exactly in the path of the future canal.
The second possibility is that the three anterior cells of the fourth quartet, 4a, 46, and 4d, may contribute a small amount to the canal at a late period.
I believe, however, that such is not the case.
The shrunken nuclei of these three cells, which can be seen at the time the canal is forming (fig.
36), indicate that these cells degenerate without dividing further.
That the shrunken condition of these nuclei is not a preparation for karyokinetic division is, I believe, fully establislied by the fact that these nuclei remain in this shrunken condition for a very long time.
Their al^ility to take up the stain gradually becomes less and less, and the last that can be seen of them (fig.
36) shows a faint, very irregularly outlined nucleus, not at all resembling one about to divide by mitosis.
The third possibility in this connection is that the four small macromeres may, instead of degenerating, contribute a portion to the endoderm.
The degenerating character of the nuclei of these cells and the very small aiuoiint of cytoplasm seems to me to preclude such a fate ill Planoccra.
I cannot find or at least cannot recognize these cells after the ectoderm has overgrown the lower pole of the egg, and so 1 am unable to follow tlieir later history.
Text fig.
3 gives an accurate representation of the condition of the nuclei of these cells at that stage, which is about as late as I am able to follow them.
These nuclei have shown this same condensed condition of the chromatin almost from the time of their formation (cf.
figs.
17, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27).
These cells are proljably carried in with the invaginating pharynx and then absorbed by the endoderm.
I have sometimes found what I thought were remains of these cells, but of this I cannot be certain.
Discussion.
We may now return to a comparison of the observations of previous students with regard to the foin-th quartet, and especially Ad, in other polyclad eggs.
As has been already noted (p. 536) the peculiar bilateral division of the posterior cell, Ad, has been known since the work of Hallez (79).
Hallez believed that this posterior cell divided without an amphiaster, and regarded the product as not equivalent to the other four cells, but in the nature of cell sap.
Goette (82) states that in some cases the cells 4a and 4c of our nomenclature also divide, so that there are seven cells, on the surface of the embryo, formed from this quartet.
This happened£only in some of the eggs of Stylochus (Stylochopis) pillidinm.
In other eggs of the same species only the posterior cell divided.
In such cases Goette foimd that this cell often divided twice, forming four cells, all on the surface of the egg.
Lang (84) finds that in Discoccelis all the cells of this fourth quartet divide at about the same time, but in different directions.
The posterior cell divides horizontally as described, while each of the other three^cells buds into the interior of the egg a cell which he calls upper endoderm.
Lang says (p. 337) : "Es treten in ihnen [fourth quartet of our system] Richtungsspindeln auf, und zwar wieder in der oft angeflihrten Reihenfolge.
Die Richtungsspindel der grossten Stammzelle des Entoderms [4a] verliingert sich excentrisch in der peripherischen Verlangerung der Ebene, welche man sich durch diese Stammzelle und die Hauptachse des Eies gelegt denken kann, und welche der jMedianebene entspricht."
.... (P. 338): "Umnittelbar befor sich die grosste Entodermstammzelle [Ad] in ihre zwei seitlichen Hiilften getheilt hat, zeigen sich audi in den drei Uebrigen, Richtungsspindeln, die aber eine ganz and ere Direction haben.
Sie liegen niimlich parallel zur Hauptachse, d. h. sie zeigen eine dorsoventrale Richtung.
Die drei erwahnten Stammzellen ziehen sich in der That gegen den aboralen Pol zu aiis, und schniiren schliesslich je eine Ideine Zelle ab, welche unterdie IMesodermzellen [second and third quartets] zu liegen kommt."
These three cells Lang calls the upper endoderm, while the five cells below he designates as the "mittler Entoderm."
Goette (82) (p. 9) also states that six or seven cells are budded into the interior of the embrj^o of Stylochus as upper endoderm, but does not give further information as to their exact origin.
In Planocera inquilina, on the other hand, the three anterior cells of the fourth quartet, viz., 4a, 46, and 4c, do not divide at this time nor for a long time afterwards, if ever.
The very large nuclei of these three cells can be traced up until just before the formation of the alimentary canal (fig.
36), and at this time they have not divided.
The nuclei of these cells, especially 46, become exceedingly large (fig.
32) and formexcellent landmarks in the later stages.
Wilson (98) finds and figures the bilateral division of 4tZ.
He states that the division of this cell into equal halves is an exception to the rule, and that in about 90 per cent, of the eggs of Leptoplana the division is markedly unequal (cf.
his fig.
6, D, E and F).
Wilson did not follow the future division of these cells.
He says (p. 22): "As regards the iate of these cells, the inequality of 4d^ and 4(P [-id^-^ and M^-^] (often very marked) is itself indirect evidence that they do not give rise to symmetrical mesoblast bands as in the higher types, and I find no evidence that either of them gives rise to mesoblast cells.
Both seem to have the same fate as the other entoblast cells, with which they exactly agree in deutoplasmic structure, and enter into the formation of the archenteron, as Lang has shown in the case of Discoccelis."
It is peculiar that Lang should have observed 'cells budding into the interior of the egg from three cells of the fourth quartet and not from its other member, while I find that it is only this latter cell which divides towards the interior, or in fact the only cell of this quartet that divides at all.
Lang gives figures of the spindles in the three anterior cells of the fourth quartet in Discoccelis and also a detailed description of these divisions.
Although this work was done on living eggs, it does not seem probable that so careful an observer would be mistaken in the facts.
We must conclude, then, that the three upper endoderm cells of Discoccelis are in fact endoderm, and that this species differs from Planocera in the division of the three anterior cells of the fourth quartet.
We would not be surprised to find such a coenogenetic difference in different species of polyclads.
Discoccelis perhaps shows a more primitive condition in this respect, in that cells which are to form part of the alimentary canal arise early from these three cells of the fourth quartet.
In Planoccra apparently most of the protoplasmic material has been separated from the cells 4a, 4b, and 4c in the previous divisions, and they now contain little more than a mass of yolk granules.
Lang, no doubt, overlooked the internal budding of the posterior cell, 4d, if such occurs in Discococlis.
This internal division of 4d in Planocera is very evident and striking.
In other particulars the cleavage of Planocera inquilina is so similar to that of other polyclads that it is difficult to believe that this species differs so fundamentally in respect to 4d.
As stated before, practically all the previous work on polyclad embryology has been clone on the living eggs alone.
Such a division as the internal budding of 4d might easily be overlooked in the living opaque eggs.
On this basis we might well conclude that in all probability such a division was overlooked by Lang and his predecessors.
Wilson, however, who imdoubtedly was on the lookout for just such a division, did not find it in Leptoplana.
Wilson says that he does not attempt to "describe the cleavage of Leptoplana in detail, but only indicate its leading features."
I cannot but believe that in this statement is contained the reason why Wilson did not find mesoderm arising from 4d.
A process so evident and significant as these divisions of 4d in Planocera can scarcely be conceived of as a coenogenetic character of one or even a few species of polyclads.
In annelids and mollusks the bilateral division of 4c?
and the origin of mesoderm bands from these cells is without exception in the numerous species so far studied.
Both Wilson and myself have now shown that the ectoderm of polyclads is segregated in the first three quartets of micromeres, and that the second quartet gives rise to some mesoderm.
This process, so exactly paralleled in mollusks and annelids, can now scarcely be doubted as constant in its main features for all polyclads.
Whether such a uniformity in the origin of the mesoderm from 4d will be found to hold throughout these Turbellaria can onl}^ be proven by further investigations on other species.
I believe that certainly the weight of evidence is in favor of this uniformity.
The resemblance in the behavior of 4d in the polyclads to the homologous cell in annelids and mollusks becomes only more striking as we consider the details of its divisions.
It is true that in annelids and mollusks 4d divides into two bilateral halves before it buds cells into the interior, while in Planocera 4d first buds a single cell into the segmentation cavity and then each of the two di\ddes bilaterally (figs.
19, 25, 26).
In either case exactly the same result is reached, and the delay of the bilateral cleavage for one-cell generation can certainly be very easily accounted for as a coenogenetic modification.
Conklin (97) was the first to point out that in the gasteropod Crepidulas the cell 4d gave rise to both endoclerm and mesoderm.
In Crepidula four approximately equal cells are at first formed from M. The two lower and external are pure entoblasts.
Each of the two upper cells later gives off another entoblastic cell before they give rise to the mesoblast bands.
Since that time numerous observers have found that in both annelids and mollusks the cell 4d is mesentoblastic.
Wilson (98), in the paper so often referred to above, shows that a reinvestigation of Nereis proves that a number of small eutoblast cells are budded off from the two halves of 4d l^efore these form the mesodermal l)ands.
He also shows that a series of stages may be found in different annelids and mollusks, ranging from a single pair of minute "vestigial " entoblast cells in Aricia and Spio to Nereis where from six to ten small cells are budded off, and to the condition in Crepidula where more than half the bulk of 4d forms endoderm.
Around these and other facts Wilson has elaborated a beautiful theor}^ of ancestral reminiscence.
To this series, agreeing very closely with Crepidula, we may add the polyclad Planocera inquilina.
Here, as in Crepidula, the two lower superficial cells derived from 4d are purely entoblastic and, as has been shown, give rise to very nearly all of the alimentary canal.
Two more small cells, 4(F-^-^ and 4d^-^V, derived from the two upper cells of 4r/, are probably added to the endoderm, while the remainder forms mesoderm.
This close, almost astonishing, agreement of Planocera with annelids and mollusks cannot be without some significance.
As Wilson (98) (p. 13) says: "If we accept Lang's view, which is supported by a large amount of evidence, that the platodes are not very far remo\'ed from the ancestral prototype of annelids and mollusks, we should expect to find in the polyclad a mode of cleavage to which that of the higher forms can in its main features be red\iced."
Before Wilson's work this resemblance between polyclads and higher forms had seemed to be "only in the jorm of cleavage and not, so to speak, in its substance."
I believe that now this difficulty has been entirely removed, and the polyclad cleavage not onl}^ conforms to the higher types in its "main features" but, as we have seen, in many of its details.
These facts here set forth cannot l;)ut lend additional W'eight to the view already expressed on comparative anatomical grounds that the polyclads represent an offshoot from the same ancestral branch which later gave rise to the annelids and mollusks.
On the other hand, it is a remarkable and interesting fact that phyla which must have separated from the common stock and from each other long ages ago still show such remarkable resemblances in their I'.X)?.]
NATUltAI.
SCIKXCKS OF IMH r.ADKLI'HI A.
549 •early ontogenies.
Vet I tliink lliis is the only intcrpretaticjn we can put upon the facts.
With our present knowledge of " Entwickelungsniechanilv" we cannot interpet these resemblances as due to external, mechanical conditions.
Why the ectoblast should be segregated in three and only three quartets in polyclads, annelids, mollusks and, as Biglow (02) has shown, in some crustacesc, and why in these same grou{)s mesoderm should arise from the posterior or left posterior cell of the fourth quartet and from no other of this quartet, are questions wliich do not readily lend themselves to a mechanical explanation under our present theories.
We must for the present at least regard these resemblances as facts of heredity and hence of phylogentic value.
The origin of the alimentary canal in Planocera is unique among animals, so far as I am aware.
The whole of the alimentary canal arises from a portion of the posterior cell of the fourth quartet, while the other three cells of this quartet and all four of the macromeres are used as food or degenerate and give rise to no morphological structure.
Not one of the last seven cells mentioned ever divides after its formation at the thirtytwo-cell stage.
Surprising and unique as this phenomenon may be.
it does not necessarily invalidate our present conception of the development of germ layers or their organs.
Since the establishment of celllineage work it has become well known that many embryonic cells are formed in early stages which are destined never to divide again, nor to take any further part in the organization of the embryo.
Compare for example the "turret" cells of certain mollusks as Crepidula {Conklin, 97).
As has been pointed out, it is well known that in many annelids and molluslcs the cell -id gives rise to a portion of the alimentary canal.
In these animals however the other three cells of this quartet as well as the macromeres take part in the formation of the digestive tract.
Indeed these latter cells furnish the major portion of the alimentary tissue.
With these facts in mind, we must regard the condition of the macromeres and the three anterior cells of the fourth quartet in Planocera as reminiscent of a time when all eight of these cells took part in the formation of the alimentary tract.
Thus the embryology shows that this worm is specialized in this respect and must long ago have left the track which led on to annelids and mollusks.
This peculiar development of the alimentary canal in the polyclads offers the suggestion that it may be a step toward the development of 8uch forms as the acoelous rhabdocoeles, in which the alimentary canal is altogether absent.
But tiie embryology of these as well as other turbellaria present such great variations from the type found in the )iolyclads that it is useless to speculate along this line.
550 proceedings of the academy of [dec, Summary.
The cleavage of the eggs of Plcmocera inquilina Wh.
until a late stage (forty-four cells) is strictly spiral in the dextral sequence.
Three quartets of ectomeres are given off in alternating dexiotropic and Iseotropic directions.
At the next division a fourth quartet is formed, the cells of which are of very large size and contain most of the yolk.
The "macromeres" are very minute cells which remain at the vegetative pole until the closure of the blastopore.
The marked degenerative character of their nuclei and the small amount of cytoplasm indicate that they degenerate without giving rise to any structure (p. 529).
At the stage with forty cells there are formed at the animal pole four small "apical" cells, which in their method and time of origin correspond closely to the cells of the same name in annelids and mollusks (p. 530).
At the forty-four-cell stage the posterior cell of the fourth quartet, M, buds a single large cell into the interior of the embryo.
Both of these cells, 4d^ and 4:(P, next divide bilaterally (p. 536).
Of these four cells the two upper and inner give rise to a portion of the mesoderm and possibly a small part of the endoderm (p. 537).
The lower pair of cells, lying on the surface of the embryo, give rise to practically all of the endodermal part of the alimentary canal (p. 541).
Thus the history of this cell, 4:d, shows a remarkable resemblance to its homologue in mollusks and annelids.
The three anterior cells of the fourth quartet, 4a, 46 and 4c, seem to function only as the bearers of food yolk and apparently give rise to no morphological structure.
The very large nuclei of these cells can be followed until the beginning of the pharyngeal invagination.
The yolk in these cells breaks up into spherules, probably through the action of enzymes from the large nuclei.
This liquified yolk is later absorbed by the endoderm cells (p. 542).
A large portion of the ectoderm is formed by the successive budding or delimination of small cells from larger, deeper lying ones (p. 533).
A portion of the mesoderm, chiefly that part lying around the pharynx, is derived from cells of the second quartet, and thus corresponds with the "secondary" mesoblast or "larval" mesenchyme of annelids and mollusks (p. 535).
In the spiral cleavage, the segregation of the ectoblast in three quartets, the formation of a large part of the mesoderm from 4(i, the formation of the apical cells, and in many other details the development of these platodes corresponds to that of annehds and mollusks.
These facts must tend to confirm the view that in their early history these platodes were closely related to the two last mentioned phyla.
On the other hand, in the development of the entire alimentary canal from a portion of the mesentoblast, 4.d, and in the consequent degeneration of the "macromeres" and of the remaining cells of the fourtii quartet, this polyclad is unique.
This peculiar development of the alimentary tract shows that the cleavage of the polyclads, while closely resembling that of other groups, is not a generalized t}'pe.
i^rv2 [Dec, + o3S « I "^ -^ 1907.]
553 + > s o c«=: o a sc M ad o a, So ^ ^ g c^ s; r* g -o •^ '"' '"' :§ 2?
> , ' 2 1 Oi >o >o <M CM K?
Kl Cq CQ k; 554 [Dec, + o asp^ s 5 ' ie 1 '^ C:^ i9o; 555 ^S.
|5|§||S + o 2 it S) «fc3 ^t'K; %s Is 5o6 proceedings of the academy of [dec.
Literature.
BiGFOW, M. A.
1902.
The Early Developiiient of Lepas.
Bull.
Mas.
Comp.
Zoo.
Harvard College, XL, No.
2.
Blochmann, F. 1883.
Beitriige zur Keniitniss der Entwickelungs der Gasteropoden.
Zeit.
f. Wiss.
Zool., XXXVIII.
Casteel, C. D. 1904.
The Cell Lineage and Early Development of Fiona Marine, a Nudibranchiate MoUusk.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904.
CoNKLiN, E. G. 1891.
Note on the Embryology of Crepidula fornicata and Urosalpinx cinera.
John Hop.
Univ.
Circ, X, No.
88.
1892.
The Cleavage of the Ovum of Crepidula fornicata.
Zool.
Am., XV.
1897.
The Embryology of Crepidula.
Journ.
Morph., XIII.
— 1902.
Karyokinesis and Cytokinesis in the Maturation, Fertilization and Cleavage of Crepidula and other Gasteropods.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
iSci.
Phila., 2d Series, XII, 1.
— — 1905.
The Organization and Cell Lineage of the Ascidiau Egg.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., XIII, pt.
1.
Child, C. M. 1900.
The Early Development of Arenicola and Sternapis.
Arch.
Entw.
Mech., IV.
P^isiG, Hugo.
1898.
Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Capitelliden.
Milth.
Zool.
Stat.
Neap., XIII.
Fhancotte, R. 1898.
Recherches sur la Mat.
la Fecond.
et la segm.
chez des Pol3'clads.
Arch, de Zool.
Exp.
et Gen., 3* ser., VI.
Gardiner, E. G. 1895.
The Early Development of Polychoerus caudatus Mark.
Journ.
Morph., XI.
1898.
The Growth of the Ovum, Formation of the Polar Bodies and the Fertilization in Polychoerus caudatus.
Journ.
Morph., XV.
GiRARD, Charles.
1846-7.
Sur I'embryogenie des Planaires.
Bull, de la Societe des Sci.
Nat.
de Neuchdtel, II.
1848.
On the Development of Planocera elliptica.
Pi-oc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., III.
1854.
Researches upon Nemerteans and Planarians.
I. Embryological Development of Planocera elliptica.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Phila., II.
GoETTE, Alexander.
1878.
Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Seeplanarian.
Zool.
Am., I.
1881.
Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Wurmer.
Zool.
Anz.,1.
1882.
Abhandlungen zur Entw.
der Thiere — 1: Untersuchungen zur Entw.
der Wiirmer.
Leipsig, 8°.
Graff, L. V. 1892.
Pelagische Polycladen.
Zeit.
f. Wiss.
Zool, 55.
Hallez, Paul.
1878. a.
Contributions a I'histoire des Turbellaries, V* note sur la d^veloppement.
Bull.
Scient.
du Depart, du Nord.
2'"" ser., 1''* annee, pp.
193-195.
1878. b.
Considerations au sujet de la segmentation des oeufs.
Ibidem, pp.
227-229.
1878. c. Contributions a I'histoire des Turbellaries.
Ibidem, pp.
250-260.
1878. d. Considerations sur la determination des plans de segm.
dans Temb.
du Leptoplana tremellaria.
Ibidem, pp.
264-266.
1879.
Contributions a I'histoire nat.
des Turbellaries.
Lille; also in Trovaux de V Instil.
Zool.
de Lille et de la Stat, rnarit.
de Wi7nereux, Fas.
II.
Heath, Harold.
1899.
The Development of Ischnochiton.
Zool.
Jahrb., Abth.
f. Anat.
u.
Ontog., XII.
Hetmons, Richard.
1893.
Zur Entwick.
von Umbrella medit.
Lara.
Zeit.
f. Wiss.
Zool., 56.
Holmes, S. J.
1897.
Secondary Mesoblast in the Mollusca.
Science, N. S., VI.
1900.
The Early Development of Planorbis.
Journ.
Morph., XVI.
Jennings, H. S. 1895.
The Earlv Development of Asplanchna Herriclci DeGuerne.
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Harv.
Coll., XXX.
Keferstein, Welh.
1868.
Beitrjige zur Anat.
u. Entw.
einiges Seeplanarian von St. Malo.
Abhnnd.
d. Konigl.
Gesell.
der Wiss.
zu Goftingen, XIV.
KoFOiD, C. A.
1894.
On Same Laws of Cleavage in Limax.
Proc.
Am.
Acad.
Arts and Sci., N. S., XXI.
KouscHELT, E., and IIkioek, K. 1893.
Lflirl>ucli dcr vcrglinchcMdru JmiIw.
der Wirbillosseu Tliicre.
8p.
Thcilt-, Jena.
Lang, Ahnolu.
18S-i.
Die I'olycladen, des Golfes von Xeapel.
Fauna, u. Flora d. (Jolfes v.
Neap., XI.
LiLLiE, V. K. 1895.
The Embryology of the Unionidie.
Journ.
Morph., X. Mead, A.
1).
1897.
The Early Development of Marine AnneUds.
Journ.
Morph., Xlll.
Meyeh, E. 1887.
Studien uben den Korperbau dcr Aiuiclidcn.
Mlth.
Zaol.
aiat.
Neap., VII.
— — 1890.
Die Abstammung der Anneliden.
Biol.
Cent., M. X. Nelson, J. N. 1904.
The Early Development of Dinophilus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
iici.
Phila., October, 1904.
Pereyaslawvew.
Mlle.
S. 1885.
Sur le developpement des Turbellari^s.
Zool.Anz., \1II.
Repiachofk, W. 1885.
Nachtrag zu Perevaslawvew's Devel.
des Turbel.
Zool.
Am., Mil.
Selenka, Emil.
1881. a.
Die Keimbliitter der Planarion.
SUzungsher.
der Physik-Medic.
Soc.
zu Erlanger, No.
14.
Trans, in Ball.
Sci.
Dept.
du Nord.
18SI.
b. Tiir Entwickelungsgeschichte der Seeplanarien.
Biol.
Cent., Bd.
1.
1881. c. Zool.
Studien — II: Zur Entw.
der Seeplanarien.
Ein Beitrag zur Keinibliitterlehre und Desocudenz Tiieorie.
Leipsig.
1881. d. Ueber eine eigen Ihuniliche Art der Kernmetamorphose.
Biol.
Cent., Bd.
1.
Suuface, F. M. 1907.
Note on the Origin of the Mesoderm of the Polyclad Planocera inquilina Wh.
Science, \.
S., \'ol.
XXV", p. 732.
TouREY, J. C. 1902.
The Early Development of the Mesoblast in Thalassema.
Anat.
Am., XXI.
1903.
The Early Embryology of Thalassema Mellita (Conn).
Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., XIV.
Tk?
:dwell, a. L. 1901.
The C)'togeny of Podarke obscura Ver.
Journ.
Morph., XVII.
Vaillant, Leon.
1866.
Sur le developpement dvi Polycelis la)\'igatus, Quatref .
L' Institute, I Sect., Tome XXXIV.
1868.
Pemarques snr la developpement d'une Planari^e dendrocele de Quatref.
Mem.
de L'Acad.
des Sci.
et Lettres de Montpellier, T. VII.
\'an' Ben'Eden, Edouard.
1870.
Reserches sur la composition et la Signification de I'oeuf.
Memoires, couromes et mem.
des Savants etranger publics par I' Acad.
Royal, de Belgique, Tome 34, Bruxelles.
Wheeler, W. M 1894.
Planocera inquilina, a Polyclad inhabiting the Branchial (^hamber of Sycotypus canaliculatus Gill.
Journ.
Morph., IX, Whitman, C. O.
1878.
The Embrj-ologv of Clep.sine.
Quart.
Journ.
Micr.
Sci., XVIII.
1891.
Spermatophoros as a means of Hypodermic Impregnation.
Journ.
Morph., IV.
AVir.so.v, E. B.
1892.
The Cell Lineage of Nereis.
Jourti.
Morph., Yl.
1894.
The Embryological Criterion of Homologv.
Woods IIoll Biol.
Lect., 1894.
1898.
Considerations on Cell Lineage and Ancestral Reminiscences.
Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., XI.
— 1899.
Cell Lineage and Ancestral Heminiscences.
Woods [Foil Biol.
Lect., 1899.
Explanation of Plates XXX\'-XL.
All figures of fixed and stained eggs, except fig.
35, were' drawn with Zeiss Camera lucida at table level imder Leitz obj.
j\; oc.
2.
Figures of living eggs (viz., figs.
1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 11) were drawn as above, Init with Loitz obj.
7; oc.
2.
Fig.
35 was drawii with B and L. obj.
^\; oc.
1.
All drawings hav<> been reduced one-third.
Reference Letters.
e., entoblasts 4d^-'-i and -id^-^-K nAb., nucleus of the cell 46.
end., eudodenu.
ph., pharynx.
ey., eye.
r., rhabdites.
g., gangUon.
y., yolk.
mes., mesoderm.
Plate XXXV.
— Fig.
1.
— Living egg before fu-st maturation division, showing large germinal vesicle.
Fig.
2.
— Living egg duiing the second maturation division, shomng amoeboid processes.
Fig.
3.
— Living egg after second maturation division.
Fig.
4.
— Living egg during the first division.
The cell C-D is slightly larger "than A-B.
Fig.
5.
— Stained egg in the second division.
From left side, showing the crossing of the spindles.
Fig.
6.
— Living egg in the four-cell stage, from the animal pole.
Fig.
7.
— Formation of the first quartet.
From right side, showing dexiotropic cleavage.
Fig.
8.
— Living egg in the eight-cell stage.
From animal pole.
Plate XXXVI.
— Fig.
9.
— Lseotropic division of the preceding eight cells.
The spindles in the D quadrant show an advance over the others.
From the animal pole.
Fig.
10.
— Living egg with sixteen cells.
From the animal pole.
Fig.
11.
— Same as fig.
10, but from vegetative pole.
Fig.
12.
— Dexiotropic divisions of cells la^-ld' and of 2a-2d.
From animal pole.
Fig.
13.
— Thirty-two cells.
Dexiotropic divisions of la^-'-ld^-^ From animal pole.
Fig.
14.
— Thirty-two cells, showing dexiotropic formation of 3a and 3c.
Vegetative pole.
Fig.
15.
— Thirty-two cells from vegetative pole, shoTving spindles for formation of 46 and 4d.
Plate XXXVII.
— Fig.
16.
— Same as Fig.
15, from right side.
Fig.
17.
— Thirty-six cells from near vegetative pole.
Spindle in 2c^ 2a^ and 2(P have divided.
Fig.
18.
— Thirty-nine cells.
From animal pole, showang lseotropic formation of apical cells.
Fig.
19.
— Forty-five cells, from the right posterior side.
Shows the first division of the mesentoblast 4d.
2d^ also dividing.
Fig.
20.
— Forty-seven cells.
From vegetative pole.
Fig.
21.
— About the same stage as fig.
20,draT\Ti from the right side, shows the unequal di\asion of 2c' and 2bK Also spindles in Ic^-' and W-^.
la'-^-ld^'^ have divided dexiotropically (see fig.
22).
Plate XXXVIII.
— Fig.
22.
— Slightly older egg than fig.
21, dra-^Ti from left upper side.
Shows division of la'-'-^-ld'-'-^ and of 1¥-'^.
la'-^ and 1¥'^ have divided previously.
Also shows losotropic di^ision of la^-'-ld^'.
Fig.
23.— Still older egg, sho\\ang the same division as fig.
22, but more advanced.
From animal pole.
Fig.
24.
— Egg from animal pole, showing preceding diAdsions completed and dexiotropic division of Id''-''.
Also the bilateral division of 4d^ Fig.
25.
— Similar stage from vegetative pole.
Shows spindle for bilateral division of 4d^ Also lseotropic division of 2a^'-2d^^ 3d preparing to di^^de.
Fig.
26.
— Shows division of 4d^ completed and spindle in 4d'.
Also shows di\asion of 2d^ and 2b^, of 3d and 3b, and of 2a^-\ Fig.
27.
— Similar stage from the left side.
Shows division of 2a^-*, 4d' and 2b--''; also of la^-^-K Plate XXXIX.
— Fig.
28.— Egg from animal pole, showing di^^sions of la'-'-^'Id'-'-^-^; also of la'-^-i and Ic'-'-K Fig.
29.
— Similar vievr of sliKhtly older egg, showing preceding ^divisions completed and the resulting small superficial cells la»-i-2-2-'_id'-'--^'.
Fig.
30.
— Egg from near the vegetative pole, showing division of 4d' completed and budding in of the cells 26'-' and 2d'-'.
Fig.
31.
— Egg from animal pole at slightly later stage than fig.
29.
Shows divisions of 4cP' and 4:d--\ The resulting sniall cells 4cP'-' and 4cP''-^ are probably entoblasts.
Fig.
32.
— Optical section from animal pole, showing the cells 2a|'-2d'-* budding mesoderm to the interior.
Also shows the large nuclei of 46, 4a and 4c.
Fig.
33.
— Later stage, showing the internal divisions of the entoblasts 4d' and 4d\ Not all the cells on the interior of the egg are shown.
Plate XL.
— Fig.
34.
— Optical section of egg from the posterior side.
The entoblasts 4d'-* and 4d'-^ have di\dded once 'and possibly twice.
The two small entoblasts 4fF-'-i and 4fp-2-' are shown vidth dark nuclei.
Aliove these are the two small mesoblasts, while the larger mesoblasts 4f/2-'-^-2 and icP-''-'^-^ are again dividing.
Above these are a number of cells from the first quartet which later form the ganglion.
The large nuclei of 4a, 46 and Ac are shown in dotted outlines.
Fig.
3o.
— Optical section of an egg \iewed from near the vegetative pole.
The derivatives of 4.
(P are stippled.
The division of 4(P-'-^-' and 4cP-2-2-» indicated in fig.
34 are now completed and the beginning of the mesodermal bands is evident.
In many eggs the divisions are not so regular as sliOA\Ti here.
Instead the mesoderm tends to form clusters of cells rather than bands.
Fig.
36.
— Optical section of a much later stage.
From the left side.
The mass of endoderm derived from 4d' Ues just above the future pharynx.
The mesoderm cells have passed to the periphery and the centre of the egg is filled with the homogeneous yolk spheres (?/), in wMch the shrunken nucleus of 46 can be seen"(M.46.).
The two small cells marked (e) are probably the entoblast 4d^-^-^ and 4d'-^-^. '
Fig.
37.— Optical section of an older embryo.
From the posterior side.
'■' Shows ectodermal pharynx and beginning of lumen in the endoderm.
Fig.
.3S.— Actual longitudinal section of a still older embryo, showing the backward turn of the aUmentary canal in this stage.
Fig.
39.
— Longitudinal section of a MuUer's larva.
Nearly all the yolk spheres have disappeared by this time and the ahmentary canal is greatly enlarged but still unbranched.
OBSEBVATIONS HADE IN 1907 ON GLACIEBS IN ALBERTA AND BRITISH COLUMBIA BY GEORGE, JR., AND WILLIAM S. VAUX.
But few vital changes are to be noted from year to year in the glaciers of these regions, and yet a careful observation of what is taking place may in time throw some additional light on the problems of glacier action which as yet remain unsolved.
This can be our only apology for again presenting to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia the results of the work done on the several glaciers in Alberta and British Columbia in August, 1907, which is a continuation of that first begun on the Illecillewaet Glacier twenty years ago.
As a preliminary it may be stated that the winter and early spring of 1907 were cold and backward.
Immense banks of snow collected in the valleys and even covered the glacier tongues till the spring was fully opened ; snow fell much later than usual at normal elevations, and much larger banks were noted on the mountainsides than for many years.
Rain and a deficiency of sunlight retarded melting, so that much more snow remained in the fall, both in the valleys and the higher slopes, and it is probable that many snowbanks had not entirely disappeared before the winter falls set in.
Illecillewaet Glacier.
Glacier House, British Columbia, Recession.
— With the above conditions in mind, it is interesting to note that on August 12, 1907, the tongue of ice of the Illecillewaet Glacier was 382 feet above the marked rock "C," which has been the datum point since August 17, 1898, or a recession of fifty-five feet since July 24, 1906.
The above measurement was made from the datum, rock to the ice along a line parallel with the axis of the glacier.
Measurements made to the nearest ice farther to the east of this line, which was established several years ago, would doubtless show a much smaller recession, but it would seem that in fairness the measurement points should be kept as nearly as possible in the same straight line from year to year.
It, however, appears to be a fact that the tongue or point of greatest extension of this glacier lies many feet to the east of the position of ten years ago.
1907.]
561 'Test Picture.
— The annual test picture was taken from Rock W, on August 19, 1907, and shows a continued shrinkage on both sides and in dei)th of the ton<j;ue.
This last feature is particularly marked when walking over the slopes of ice on a line with the test plates.
When the location for these was selected it was largely on account of the even slope and inicrevassed siu'faces.
Now great crevasses are found, but particularly on the left side, and the slope in places approximates 35 degrees, whereas ten years ago it was but 22 degrees.
A careful study of the rock at the sides of the ice stream and the probable form of the bed on which the glacier flows would indicate that the tongue has now almost reached the upper edge of the nearly flat bed moraine which has been gradually uncovered for at least twenty years, and should recession continue the ice edge will begin to mount over ledges of bed rock which have been worn and polished for ages beneath the glacier mass.
Flow of the Glacier above the Tongue.
— The six steel plates laid out on July 12, 1906, were located again on August 12, 1907, after a period of exactly thirteen months or 396 days.
After a good deal of difficulty they were all found, but it was not possible to triangulate the position of No.
6 on the extreme left of the glacier, which had taken a position on a blade of ice between two very deep crevasses, and so far below the general level of the glacier that a tower forty feet high would have been required to bring the stadia within the field of view of the transit.
The following table gives the total motion of the five plates during the interval of thirteen months, and the average daily motion computed from this total.
In the last cohmm has been repeated the observed daily motion of these plates laid out on July 12, 1906, and located again twelve days later.^ Motion of 1906 Plates on Surface of Illecillewaet Glacier, July 12, 1906, to August 12, 1907.
Number of Plate.
Total motion 396day interval (inches) .
Average daily motion 396-day interval (inches).
Average daily motion twelve-day interval summer of 1906 (inches).
960 1,056 2,136 2,66-4 2,436 Plate lost.
7.00 11.33 9.75 10.25 8.85 » Compare "Observations made in 1906," Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Philn., December, 1900, pp.
573, 574.
37 5G2 [Dec, AsuLKAN Glacier.
Glacier House, British Columbia.
Changes in Tongue.
— The same record of breaking down and recession must be made of this glacier, and indeed the changes noted are more marked than for several years.
The right side is melting rapidly, with the result that the stream of ice is becoming narrower.
On the left side there is not so much change, owing to the mantle of moraine which retards melting.
There is much less ice at the tongue than last year and recession is marked.
The general siurface of the ice is rougher and there are many crevasses at the line of plates where last year even slopes were found.
The large rock marked in 1899 was found to rest in its original position, though heaped all around with fresh moraine.
The distance from this rock on August 15, 1907, to the thin tongue of ice w^as found to be 54 feet 6 inches, showing that amount of recession since last year.^ The Flow of Glacier above Tojigue.
— On August 15, 1907, the position of the plates laid out on July 13, 1906, was determined, giving the motion of the ice for a period of about thirteen months or 398 days.
The results are given in the following table, to which have been added the data obtained in 1906 of the rate of summer motion of the same plates, covering a ten-day interval.
Motion of 1906 Plates on Surface of Asulkan Glacier, July 13, 1906, to August 15, 1907.
Number of Plate.
Total motion 398day interval (inches) .
Average daily motion 398-day interval (inches).
Average daily motion ten-day interval summer of 1906 (inches).
7 8 9 10 11 12 Bowlder.
Lost.
449 Lost.
1,147 1,231 1,245 1.13 2.88 3.10 3.13 2.40 3.90 5.50 6.70 6.70 6.30 8.90 Victoria Glacier.
Lake Louise, Alberta, Canada.
This glacier was visited on August 8, 1907, during a long period of ' Compare "Observations made in 1906," Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., December, 1906, p. 575. storm.
The changes, though not marked, arc all in the line of shrinkage and recession.
The tongue, still buried in moraine, is not different from previous years, but the steep slopes of ice on the left side are gradually retreating and depositing masses of bowlders on the ground moraine below.
The large angular blocks whicli fell from the ice in 1899 are now 126 feet from the edge of ice, which indicates a further retreat of fifty-two feet since July 30, 1906.
The large boulder on the ice surface has moved many feet down with the ice, but owing to the bad weather and dense fog which obscured the line points it was not possible to determine the changes with any accuracy.
YoHo Glacier.
Yorio Valley, Field, British Columbia.
This glacier was visited on August 19, 1907.
It has receded very appreciably the past j^ear, particularly on the left side, where many acres of roches moutonne have been left bare or covered with masses of moraine.
Some of these are glaciated and graved most beautifully, and many small spherical quartzite pebbles about the size of marbles and quite as true w^ere found in pockets where they had been deposited.
The right side of the glacier does not appear to have changed so greatly, probably owing to the form of glacier bed and the increased pressure of ice on this side.
As with other examples in this region, the point of greatest extension of the glacier is a very long blade-like tongue extending in one of the trough-like grooves parallel with the axis of the glacier.
Measuring from the bed rock marked on August 17, 1901, to this ice the distance was found to be 147 feet 4 inches, or a recession of 70 feet for the year.
If, however, the line is taken in the same direction as previous years the distance was 423 feet, or 346.3 feet recession.
This is the greatest change which has been noted in any glacier in this region since observations were recorded.
As a conclusion it may be noted that the yearly average flow of the ice streams continues about as in previous years, but the recession of the tongues, shrinkage and breaking dow^n is increasingly marked.
The Asulkan Glacier, which for several years was stationary or slightly advancing, has this year showed marked retreat and shrinkage, and the same is the case wdth the Victoria Glacier.
Preceded by a cold and stormy winter and a summer with low average of sunshine and low temperature, these conditions point to an interesting series of changes which may ultimately throw some light on the relation between weather conditions and glacier change.
The following reports were orde-ed to be printed : REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRET.AJIY.
Fifteen meetings of tlie Academy were held during the past year, with an average attendance of thirty-seven.
Commmiications, many of which were illustrated by lantern slides, were made by Messrs. George.
Jr.. and William S. Yaux.
H. A. Pilsbn-.
H. E. Wetherill.
Henry Leffman.
Howard W. DuBois, E. G. Conklin.
S. G. Dixon.
A. E. Brown, P. P. Calvert, Henry Skioner, J. W. Harshberger, Joseph Willcox, Burnett Smith.
Witmer Stone.
F. L. Garrison and Benjamin Sharp.
Forty papers have been presented for publication by the following authors : Qarence B. Moore, 4: H. A. Filsbri-.
4: Henry W. Fowler, 3; James A. G. Rehn.
3: Thomas H. Montgomery.
2: J. Percy Moore, 2; Burnett Smith.
2; R. W. Shufeldt, 2: H. E. witherill, 1: H. A. Pilsbry and James H. Ferris.
1: C. P. Gillette.
1: George, Jr.. and William S. Yaux, 1 : James A. Xelson.
1 ; Theodore Gill.
1 : Harold Heath.
1 : Arthur M. Edwards, 1; J. Chester Bradley, 1: Howard Crawley, 1: E. G. Yanatta.
1 ; J.
A. G. Rehn and M. Hebard.
1 : Helen Dean King.
1 : H. ■ E. Enders.
1; E. G. ConMin, 1; Clayton F. Palmer.
1; W. H. Dall.
1; and Witmer Stone, 1.
Four of these have been accepted for pubhcation in the Jousxal, twenty-nine for the Proceedings : six have been rettimed to the authors, and one is stiU held imder advisement.
One hundred and ninety pages of the Peoceedlngs for 1906. with fourteen plates and two maps, and four himdred and sixteen pages and thirty plates, constituting Part 3 of Yol.
58 and Parts 1 and 2 of Yol.
59. have been published and distributed.
The four papers by ^Ir.
Moore f«rm the third number of Yol.
All!
of the Joihbxae, one hundred and forty-three beautifully illustrated pages, for which we are indebted to the author who defraj's the entire cost of pubhcation.
The Entomological Section has published four hundred and fift}-eight pages of the Extomologicajl Xews, with seventeen plates, and two hundred and mnet\--seven pages, with four plates, of the TraxsAcnoxs OF THE AviERiCAX ExTOMOLOGicAL SociETT (Entomological Section of the Academy).
Of the Maxttal of Coxchologt two hundred and twenty-six pages and thirty^even plates have been issued.
Six members and four correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of eight members and three correspondents have been announced.
Eight resignations of membership have been received as follows: Judson Daland, W. P. Stokes, George M. Woodward, Marian G. Nimlet, Lightner "Witmer, L. H. Carpenter, 11.
D. Barclay, and Henry Emerson Wetherill.
Although the iinj^rovetl design for the Hayden Memorial Medal was accepted in 190G.
as stated in my last annual report, the engraved dies were not received from the Gorham Company until last April.
The medal, the work of John Flanagan, of New York, was then cast by Messrs. Krider & Co., of Philadelphia, and has met with general approval, the portrait and the emblematic reverse being regarded as imi)rovements on the design of the token formerly awarded.
The Academy has been forced by a variety of circumstances to defer the actual presentation of the medal to Dr. Wolcott until the first meeting of January, when a reception wdll be tendered the distinguished recipient.
The President was authorized to appoint representatives to the Centenary Celebration of the Geological Society of London, and to the observance of the two hundredth anniversary of the l)irthday of Linnspus by the New York Academy of Sciences.
Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
The Corresponding Secretary regrets the necessity of recording the death during the past year of the following named correspondents: Mr. Frederick C. Stearns, Sir Joseph Fayrer, Prof. Edmund von Mojsisovics, and Prof, Lucien M. Underwood.
There were elected Mr. P. Chalmers ^Mitchell, of the Zoological Society of London; Prof. J. W. van Wijhe, of the University of (ironingen ; Prof. Otto zur Strassen, of the University of Leipzig, and Dr. R. Bowdlcr Sharpe, of the British Museum.
Notices announcing the deaths of five scientific men of prominence were received and suitably acknowledged on behalf of the Academy.
Upon the receipt of official invitations delegates representing the Academy were appointed l)y the President as follows: To the Tricentennial Anniversary of the birth of Ulisus Aldrovandi, Prof. Giovanni Capellini, a correspondent; to the Seventh Liternational Zoological Congress, Prof. E. G. Conklin, Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry Dr. Benjamin Sharp, Mr. Witnier Stone and Dr. J. Perc}^ Moore; to the Centenary Anniversary of the founding of the Geological Society of London, Sir Archibald Geikie, a correspondent; and to the exercises in New York commemorating tlie two hundredth anniA'ersary of the birth of Linnfeus, Mr. Witmer Stone.
Invitations to participate were received for the dedication exercises of the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburg, the eightieth anniversary of the Imperial Geographical Society of Russia, the Fourth International Fishery Congress, the Prehistoric Congress of France, the Delegation for the Choice of an International Auxiliary Language, the Fiftieth Anniversary of the founding of the Parsony Medical and Physical Society, and a memorial meeting to the late Samuel Pierpont Langley.
Suitable letters or addresses were in each case forwarded.
A noteworthy event of late summer was the meeting in this country of the Seventh International Zoological Congress.
Upon the invitation of a committee representing many of the scientific and educational institutions of Philadelphia, and which held its meetings at this Academy, a large delegation from the Congress, including upwards of seventy foreign members, visited this city on September 2 and 3.
Among the visitors were many distinguished zoologists, including two correspondents of the Academy, Dr. Raphael Blanchard, of Paris, and Prof. A.
A. W. Hubrecht, of Utrecht.
The programme of entertainment was very successfully carried out, both at the Academy and the other institutions that were visited, and was very enjoyable to visitors and hosts alike.
An increased number of letters requesting information on subjects of scientific interest were received and answered.
Statistics of the correspondence follow : Communications Received.
Acknowledgingreceiptof the Academy's publications, 162 Transmitting publications, 72 Requesting exchanges or the supplj^ of deficiencies, 2 nvitations to learned gatherings, 9' Notices of death of scientific men, 5 Circulars relating to the administration of scientific institutions, etc., .
.
11 Biographies of correspondents, 6 Photographs of correspondents, 5 Miscellaneous letters, 117 Total received, 389 Communications Forwarded, Acknowledging gifts to the Library 1,02Acknowledgiiiij; gifts to the -Museum, "7 Acknowledging pliotographs and biographies 7 Requesting the supply of defieieneies in journal-^ 85 Correspondents' diplomas and notices of election, 2 Letters of sympathy or congratulation and addresses, 9 Miscellaneous letters, 1 36 Copies of annual reports sent to correspondent;.
213 Circular letters, 95 Total forwarded, 1,646 Respectfully submitted, J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
Additions to the Library have been received during the year as follows : Pamphlets and parts of periodicals 5,790 Volumes 941 Maps 157 Photograpiis, 21 Total 6,909 They were received from the following sources : I. V. WiUiamson Fund 2,406 Societies, Museums, etc 2,377 Editors 640 United States Department of Agriculture 438 United States Department of the Interior 230 General Appropriation 211 Authors 138 James Aitken Meigs Fund 86 AVilson Fund 29 Pennsylvania State Department of Agriculture 25 Geological Survey Department, Canada 23 United States Department of Commerce and Labor 20 MinistSre des Travaux Publics, France 18 Comit6 G^ologique Russe 16 Imperial Geological Survey, Japan 13 United States Treasury Department Ministerio de Colonizacion y Agri coltura, Bolivia United States War Department... Department of Mines, Victoria 10 Department of the Interior, Canada 9 Department of the Interior, Philippines 9 Geological Survey of India 9 Ministerio de Foinento, Peru 8 Trustees of British Museum 8 568 [Dec, Department of Agriculture in India 8 United States Bureau of Fisheries 7 International Bureau American Republics 7 Department of Agriculture, Jamaica 7 Cape of Good Hope, Department of Agriculture 7 Commission Geologique de Finlande 6 Department van Landbouw, Java 6 Western Australia Geological Survey 6 Facultad de Agronomia y Veterinaria.
La Plata 5 Maryland Geological Siu-vey 5 Observatoire Centrale Nicholas 5 United States Public Health and Marine Hospital Service 4 Dr. Thomas Biddle 4 Publication Committee Academy 4 Connecticut Geological and Natural History Survey 4 Wisconsin Geological and Natural History Survey 4 Commission de la Belgica 4 Bureau of American Ethnology.... 3 Biuroului Geologicu, Roumania.... 3 Geological Commission, Cape of Good Hope 3 Geological Survey of New Jersey.
3 Agricultural College Survey of North Dakota 2 Dr. S. Solis-Cohen 2 Department of Fisheries, New South Wales 2 Pennsylvania Department of Fisheries 2 Instituto Geologico de Mexico 2 Illinois Bureau of Labor Statistics 2 Trustees of the Indian Museum 2 Missouri Bureau of Geology and Mines Department of Mines, New South Wales Dr. H. A. Pilsbry Commissioners of Fisheries and Game, Massachusetts Dr. E.J.
Nolan New Zealand Geological Survey.... Library of Congress Board of Agriculture and Forestry, Hawaii South African Government Department of IMarine and Fisheries, Canada Arthur Dransfield Bentham Trustees, Kew Gardens.
New Zealand Government Iowa Geological Survey Witmer Stone Kommission zur Wissenschaftliche Untersuchungen der Deutschen See in Kiel Francis R. Abbot Department of Mines, Nova Scotia Forestry Commissioner of Minnesota Geological Survey of Natal and Zululand Board of Scientific Advice for India Secretaria de Agricultura, Cuba... Geological Survey of Alabama Louisiana Geological Survey East Indian Government Ministerio de Agricultura, Buenos Aires P. Caledon Cameron Department of Geology and Natural Resources, Indiana Dr. Henry Skinner They were distributed to the several departments of the Library as follows: Journals 5,132 Agriculture 455 Geology 330 Botany 230 Geography 138 General Natural History 121 Voyages and Travels 78 Entomologv 77 Bibliography !■'> Chemistry M Physical Science H Mineralogy 9 Matheniatics 6 Herpetology 5 Unclassified 25 Oriiitholog}' 55 Anatomy and Physiology 38 Mainmalogj^ 37 Ih'liuinthology 33 (.
"oiu'hology 32 Iclithyology 24 -Medicine 23 Aiitliropology 21 Two thousantl and twenty volumes have been bound during the year, making a notable improvement, especially in the department of journals and periodicals.
The shelf list in this department has been completed and will be of use, not only in taking stock, but in any rearrangement of the volumes which may be hereafter necessary.
The general card catalogue has of course been kept up to date.
In connection with the preparation of work for the binders constant ■effort is made to secure supplies of deficiencies, in many cases with gratifying success.
The necessity for more room becomes every day more urgent.
The growth of certain departments has heretofore been provided for by encroachment on the study rooms.
This has been so manifestly to the inconvenience of those occupying the rooms that some of these books have been removed to shelving placed above the cases.
These shelves have to be reached by ladders, and the arrangement is only tolerable as a temporary relief from crowding.
It is believed that ample provision for at least storing accessions will be provided in the proposed new building, a large part of which will be designed for the erection of tiers of stacks.
The proofs of the Union List of periodicals in the libraries of Philadelphia have been read, and the work will be issued early in March under the auspices of the Free Library.
It will be of the first importance in cooperative work.
It is gratifying to know that the present arrangement of the Library was warmly commended by the members of the International Congress of Zoologists, who were entertained here last September.
The Librarian read a paper on the use of books on Natural History at the Conference of the American Library Association, held at Asheville in May.
The paper has been published in the first volume of the Bulletin of the Association.
Acknowledgment is again gladly made of indebtedness to the Assistant Librarian, William J.
Fox, for efficient service both in the Library and the Publication Office.
Edward J. Nolan, Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The collections in the care of the Curators remain in an excellent condition and progress has been made in their study and classification.
In June an appropriation of $150,000 was made to the Academy by the State of Pennsylvania, for the erection of a new fireproof liljrary and Auditorium.
Plans for this new building, to be erected south of the present Museum, and for the remodeling of the old Library building for Museum purposes, have been adopted and work will begin early in the coming year.
The rearrangement of the collections in the old Museum building, which was closed to the public while the new roof was being constructed, has been practically completed, but until the new exliibition cases now under construction are installed, it is thought best to keep the building closed.
In rearranging the collections, the fossil Vertebrates and the Leacollection of Eocene fossils occupy the main floor.
The first gallery, where birds were formerly displayed, now contains the collections of fossil Invertebrates arranged in geological sequence.
The exhibit of recent mollusks is to remain on the second gallery.
A temporary partition shuts off the east end of the main floor, forming a room for the arrangement of the rapidly increasing study collection of mollusks.
One hundred white pine cabinets were purchased during the year for the accommodation of this collection.
In addition 720 cubic feet of exhibition cases, uniform with those previously purchased, have been ordered, and a number of moth-proof metal cases for the entomological and ornithological study collections.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore has made additional explorations among the Indian mounds of the Southern States, and added valuable specimens to his collection.
Dr. Skinner, at the instance of the Canadian Government, accompanied Dr. Fletcher on a trip through Saskatchewan during the summer, and made extensive entomological collections for the Academy.
Mr. Rehn, through the liberality of Mr. Morgan Hebard, was enabled to accompany him on a trip through New Mexico, Arizona and California, collecting Orthoptera and reptiles.
All of the latter and half of the Orthoptera became the property of the Academy.
Numerous local trips to various parts of Pennsylvania and New Jersey by other members of the Museum staff have added largely to the herbarium and the collections of fishes reptiles and mollusks.
Among the more important accessions to the ^Museum during the year may be mentioned a series of earthenware vessels from Colombia; a series from tlie WoUaston collection of MoUusca from ^ladeira, the Canaries, Cape Verdes and St. Helena; a collection of Brazilian birds presented by j\Irs.
Thomas Giunmey; a number of valuable mammals presented by the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, and a series of Cirripedes from the United States National Museum.
In addition to the services rendered by the Museum staff, the Curators are indebted to Mr. S. S. Van Pelt for the care and enlargement of the local herbarium, and to Dr. P. P. Calvert, IMessrs.
E. T. Cresson, Jr., and II.
W. Wenzel for aid in the entomological department.
Details of the work in several departments are appended.
In addition Dr. J. P. Moore has continued the study and arrangement of the helminthological collections, and Mr. H. W. Fowler of the fishes, while Miss H. N. Wardle has devoted considerable time to the care of the archaeological department.
The collections have been consulted by many visiting specialists and specimens have been loaned to Dr. F. W. True, H. W. Henshaw, E. W. Nelson, H. C. Oberholser, Dr. W. H. Dall, Dr. James P. Smith, Miss Mary J. Rathbun, Robert T. Young, Dr. G. A. Boulengcr, Dr. Burnett Smith, W. H. Osgood, M. W. Lyon, Dr. C. H. Gilbert, and Dr. C. H. Eigenmann.
Samuel G. Dixox, Executive Curator.
Report of the Special Curator of the Department of Mollusca.
During the year the collection of mollusks which was stored in 1906 has been returned to the second gallery and in part rearranged.
All of the fresh-water shells have been placed in dust-proof cases on the main floor of the Museum, where space has been partitioned off for the temporary accommodation of such part of the collection as is not exhibited.
Large accessions have been made to the collections.
Among the more extensive series are 250 trays of Florida shells collected by C. B. Moore; 100 lots from Victoria, Australia, from Mrs. A. F. Keynon; a series of Mexican shells from A.
A. Hinkley, and a series of 1,320 trays from the Quadras collection of Philippine land shells.
A series from the Lowe-WoUaston collection from the Atlantic Islands, ^ladeira, Canaries, St. Helena, etc., was purchased.
The Special Curator has been occupied chiefl)'' with the preparation of the Manual of Conchology, the volume for the year dealing with 572 [Dec, the family Olcacinidce.
Studies have also been made of the snails collected in Arizona in 1906, an account of which will shortly be ready for publication.
Mr. E. G. Vanatta has given careful and efficient assistance in the work of the department.
H. A. PiLSBRY, Special Curator.
REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS.
The Biological and Microscopical Section.
Nine stated and several informal meetings have been held during the year with the usual attendance.
The following communications were made: On Filaria sanguinis Jiominis, b}'' Dr. T. S. Stewart.
On Amphigyra alabaminensis , and on an apparatus for showing polarized light, by Mr. F. J. Keeley.
On motion of diatoms, by Mr. T. Chalkley Palmer.
A paper "On Consciousness of Micro-Organisms," by Mr. John G. Rothermel, was presented to a large audience by request in the Library Hall.
Dr. Sylvester J. Deehan, by invitation, read a paper "On the House Fly and Its Relation to Public Health."
Shorter communications on various subjects were made by Messrs. J.
A. Shulze, William B. Davis, Silas L. Schumo, Hugo Bilgram, Dr. J. C. Morris and C. S. Boyer.
The semi-centennial anniversary of the founding of the Section will occur on March 30, 1908.
Of the twenty-seven original members but few are now living; it is hoped, however, that the occasion may be the means of some commemoration of the work of the Section.
The following officers were elected for the year 1908: Director, Vice-Director, Recorder, Correspo nd ing Secretary, Treasurer, Conservator, .
J. Cheston Morris, M.D.
T. Chalkley Palmer.
Charles S. Boyer.
Silas L. Schumo.
Thomas S. Stewart, M.D.
F. J. Keeley.
Charles S. Boyer, Recorder.
MlNEUAL(3C;iCAL AND CiKOLOfllCAL SECTION.
The Section lias this season continued its meetings and excursions with renewed vigor and success.
There have been nine meetings, witii an average attendance of ten.
Communications were made by .Mr.
lA'iiwood F. Garrison on gold in pegmatite and related rocks, and on metallic sulphides in volcanic tuffs; by .Mr.
K. T. Wherry on luminescent minerals, and on his summer observations in northern New Jersey; by .Mr.
T. Chalkley Palmer on the geography and geology of the region around Richmond, Va. ; by B. S. Lyman on a trip to the Philippines, and on a new rock-section grinding machine; by Dr. Florence Bascom on some Mexican volcanoes; by Dr. William J. Sinclair on the geology of the Yosemitc ^'alley.
There were a number of shorter communications, besides active discussions.
There were nine field excursions, with an average attendance of over twenty-eight.
The parties examined: (1) The structure of Plymouth Valley, between Camp Hill and Chestnut Hill, Montgomery County; (2) The crystalline rocks and their minerals near i\Iedia, Delaware County; (3) The structure of Plymouth A'alley, between Fort Washington and Glenside, Montgomery County; (4) The crystalline rocks and their minerals between Swarthmore and Lansdowne, Delaware County; (5) The Cambrian and Precambrian roclcs between Edge Hill and Paper Mills, Montgomery County; (6) The New Red rocks in the Perkiomen Valley, Montgomery County; (7) The crystalline rocks between Chester and Morgan Station, Delaw^are county; (8) The New Red and Cambrian conglomerates betw^een Yardley and Fallsington, Bucks County; (9) The crystalline rocks and their minerals between Bethayres and Bustleton, Montgomery and Philadelphia Counties.
The excursions are occasionally enlivened by interesting and instructive discussions of the phenomena observed.
The membership of the Section has increased by two associates, at least one of whom will doubtless next month become a member.
Another associate has already this year become a member.
The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 1908: Director, ..... Benjamin Smith Lyman.
Vice-Director, George ^'aux, Jr.
Recorder and Secretary, Edgar T. Wherry.
Treasurer, Miss Emma Walter.
Conservator, Frank J. Keeley.
Respectfully submitted by order of the Section, Benjamin Smith Lyman, Director.
The Entomological Section.
The regular monthly meetings have been held, except during the months of July and August.
Valuable communications by the members have been permanently recorded in the Proceedings of the Section and published in the Entomological Neivs.
The average attendance was twelve persons, not including visitors.
Eight tin cases containing two hundred Schmitt boxes have been purchased to accommodate the growth of the collection and any new arrangement found necessary.
Over 11,000 specimens have been added to the cabinet during the year.
The most noteworthy additions have been 2,083 insects of all orders from Paramaribo, Surinam; 3,424 Hymenoptera, presented by Mr. Henry L. Viereck; 700 Orthoptera from Florida and 2,500 from the Southwestern United States, captured by Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn and ]\Ir.
Morgan Hebard ; two specimens of the very rare butterfly, Argynnis astarte, from Mt.
Athabasca, were presented by Mrs. Charles Schaffer.
The Conservator of the Section spent five weeks collecting for the Academy in the Canadian provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, and brought home a large amount of material.
Quite a number of the species collected were new to our cabinets, and it is not unlikely that new species will be found when time permits the proper study of this collection.
A large part of the additions came unmounted, and a considerable portion of the Conservator's time was occupied in preparing it for the cabinet.
The usual and necessary work for the care and preservation of the collections has been done, and new and better methods of technic have made this work very much more satisfactory.
The Entomological News, the journal published under the direction of the Section, has been continued and Volume XVIII completed with 458 pages and 17 plates.
Two hundred and ninety-eight pages and 4 plates of the Transactions of the American Entomological Society have been published.
The Conservator wishes to acknowledge valuable assistance in the care and arrangement of special collections from Dr. Philip P. Calvert, Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn and Mr. E. T. Cresson, Jr. Director, Vice-Director, Treasurer, Conservator, Secretary, Philip Laurent.
H. W. Wenzel.
E. T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner, M.D.
J. H. Ridings.
Recorder, Henry Skinner, M.D.
Publication Committee, E. T. Cresson, J. II.
Ridings.
Respectfully submitted, Henry Skinner, Conservator.
The Botanical Section.
During the past year the work of placing the sheets in species covers has been completed for about three-fourths of the herbarium ; ]->ressure of other work and lack of assistance have delayed pro,2Tess for the time being; it is hoped, however, that the arrangement may be completed during the coming year.
Early in the year six new metal cases were received and have been placed in the north gallery room for the accommodation of the ferns and fern allies with the mosses and lichens, the change of arrangement being required by the rapid growth of the local herbarium.
Additions to the collections amount to about 5,500 sheets.
Of these, exchanges have been received from the New York Botanical Gardens of 174, principally from the Bahamas, and the University of Pennsylvania.
147 from Bermuda.
Gifts have been received from the St. Louis Botanical Gardens, 565 numbers of Lindheimer's Texan plants, and about 750 from the following individuals: Edwin B. Bartram, Stewardson Brown, Joseph Crawford, ]\Irs.
Thomas P. Hill, Bayard Long, C. F. Saunders, Benjamin H. Smith, Edward G. Vanatta, Samuel S. Van Pelt and Charles S. Williamson.
The Academy's expedition to Arizona and New I\Iexico under Dr. Pilsbry added 238 sheets, and the following have been added by purchase : By the Academy, a small collection of Surinam plants, and by the Botanical Section, 425 sheets of the Pere Duss herbarium from Martinique and Guadeloupe; from A.
A. Pleller, 470 sheets of California plants, and from C. G. Pringle, 300 Mexican plants.
An increasing interest has been manifested during the year in the meetings of the Philadelphia Botanical Club, its members having added 2,500 sheets to the local herbarium.
Acknowledgment is here made of the efficient work rendered by its Curator, Mr. Samuel S. Van Pelt.
At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 5, the following were elected as officers for the ensuing year : Director, ..... Benjamin H. Smith.
Vice-Director, .... Joseph Crawford.
Recorder, ..... Charles S. Williamson.
Treasurei' and Conservator, .
.
Stew ardson Brown.
Respectfully submitted, Stewardson Brown, Conservator.
The Ornithological Section.
During the past year the remainder of the mounted collection of birds, comprising the ostriches and their allies and the song birds, have been arranged on the new Ornithological floor in cases provided for them, and the work of relabelling the Picariae, Passeres, etc., has been begun.
The greater part of the Conservator's time, apart from general museum work, has been devoted to a thorough revision of the study series of bird skins.
Before installing the extensive Tristram collection it was found necessary to reidentify the old material and bring the nomenclature up to date.
At the same time all species represented in the collection have been checked up in Sharpe's Hand List of Birds, so that it is possible to ascertain at a glance the Academy's desiderata.
This work has been completed from the Parrots to the Song Birds, this portion of the collection occupying eighty of the standard metal cases.
Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn has spent about six months' time in relabelling the Tristram collection, amplifying the tags from the manuscript catalogue, and has completed about one half of this material.
He has also relaxed many of the old unmounted specimens and greatly improved their appearance.
Numerous accessions have been received during the year, among which may be mentioned a collection of Brazilian birds from Mrs. Thomas Gummey, a raven's nest and other specimens for the Delaware Valley Club collection.
A special mahogany and plate glass case was finished early in the year for the display of the Great Auk and the Labrador Ducks, and twelve additional metal cases have been purchased for the studycollection.
1907.1 577 The Delaware "\'alley Ornithological Clul) and Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held tlieir meetings at the Academy during the year, and many visiting ornithologists have made use of the collections.
WiTMER Stone, Conservator.
^ The annual election of OfTicers, Councillors and IMembers of the Committee on Accounts to serve during 1908 was held with the following result : President, Vice-Presidents, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian, Curators, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D.
E. G. Conklin, Ph.D. Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. George Vaux, Jr. Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D.
William S. Vaux, Jr.
Councillors to serve three years, Thomas H. Fenton, M.D.,.
John Cadw'alader, Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D.
Committee on Accounts, .
.
Charles Morris, Samuel N, Rhoads, Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, John G. Rothermel, Howard Crawley, Ph.D. COUNCIL FOR 1908.
Ex-officio.
— Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Arthur E. Brown, Sc.D., Edward J. Nolan, ]\I.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William S. Vaux, Jr. To serve Three Years.
— Thomas H. Fenton, I\I.D., John Cadwalader,, Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D.
To serve Two Years.
— Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D.^ Thomas Biddle, ^LD., and Frederick Prime.
38 578 [Dec, To serve One Year.
— Charles B. Penrose, M.D., Charles Morris, Benjamin Sharp, M.D., and Henry Tucker, M.D.
Curator of Mollusca, Assistant Librarian, Assistants to Curators, HenryA.
Pilsbry,Sc.D.
William J.
Fox.
Witmer Stone, Henry Skinner, M.D., Stewardson Brown, J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., Edward G. Vanatta, Henry W. Fowler, J.
A. G. Rehn, H. Newell Wardle.
Taxidermist, .
Jessup Fund Students, David ]\IcCadden.
H. Newell Wardle, James A. G. Rehn.
Janitors Charles Clappier, Daniel Heckler, James Tague, Jacob Aeblev.
