BERTRAMIA BUFONIS.
A NEW SPOROZOAN PARASITE OF BUFO LENTIGINOSUS.
BY HELEN DEAN KING.
In a paper dealing with the stnictm-e and development of "Bidder's organ," a rounded body found at the anterior end of each testis in various species of Bufo, Knappe^ states that occasionally spermatozoa are found in the cells of this organ which is undoubtedly a rudimentary ovary; he adds, furthermore, that these spermatozoa have probably JDeen formed from small follicle cells which have entered the cytoplasm of the undeveloped ova.
In the course of investigations which I have been making this past winter upon the development of the germ-cells and the structure of Bidder's organ in the common American toad, Bufo lentiginosus , 1 have found one individual in which the cells of Bidder's organ contain bodies, unquestionably parasites, which are very similar to those figured by Knappe as spermatozoa.
It seems probable, therefore, that in the material studied by Knappe the "spermatozoa" are stages in the life cycle of some species of Sporozoa; for in the light of our present knowledge regarding the origin and development of germ-cells it is inconceivable that functional spermatozoa could be formed in or from the cytoplasm of rudimentary ova that are destined to undergo degeneration.
"WTiether the species of parasite found in the American toad is the same as that infecting the European form I have not been able to determine, as details of structure cannot be made out from the figures given by Knappe.
The individual infected by the parasite was a young male which was killed on July 16, 1905, at Owego, X. Y.
Nothing unusual or abnormal about the toad attracted my attention at the time that the animal was killed; and, as material was being collected for a study of the genital organs, only the testes, Bidder's organ, and a portion of the kidneys were preserved.
The material was fixed in Flemming's solution and stained with iron-hsematoxylin followed by orange G. As so few of the organs of the body were preserved, it is impossible to state the extent of the infection.
The parasite is found only in the ova of Bidder's organ, and not in the testes or in the renal tubules, ' Knappe, E., Das Bidder'sche Organ, Morph.
Jahrb., Bd.
XI, 1886.
Judging from the stages that I have been able to find, the parasite is undoubtedly a Sporozoan belonging to the order Haplosporidia.
It does not fit in very well with the present scheme of classification of the Haplosporidia; but until its complete life history is known, I do not think it advisable to create for it a new genus.
I shall, therefore, place it temporarily in the genus Bertramia (Caullery and Mesnil, 1897).
As the parasite is apparently a new species, it may be known as Bertramia bufonis.
The youngest stage of the parasite that I have been able to find is a small, round or oval body with a diameter of about two microns (plate XXII, fig.
1, a).
The cytoplasm is uniformly granular and the nucleus, which occupies the centre of the cell, is round or somewhat irregular in outline.
The nucleus is composed, apparently, of a dense mass of chromatin, as it always appears homogeneous and stains intensely black with the iron-hsematoxylin.
After the young parasite enters one of the ova of Bidder's organ it divides repeatedly, forming a number of cells similar to that shown in fig.
1, a.
Cell division undoubtedly takes place by means of karyokinesis, as I have found several cases like that of fig.
1, b, in which faint traces of a spindle can be seen and also irregular masses of chromatin collected at the spindle poles.
After the division of the chromatin, the daughter-nuclei assume a rounded shape (fig.
1, c), and subsequently division of the cjrtoplasm takes place, (fig.
1, <i).
Sometimes, as shown in fig.
1, e and /, one or both of the cells will have begun a second division before the first division is entirely completed.
All of the stages shown in fig.
1, a-f, may be found in a single section of one of the large ova of Bidder's organ.
The period of multiplication is followed by a growth period in which each of the cells increases enormously in size and the nucleus divides a number of times without any corresponding division of the cytoplasm (figs.
2-5).
The nuclear divisions at this stage of development are evidently also mitotic (fig.
3), although on account of the small size of the spindle and of the chromosomes it is quite impossible to make out any details of the process.
At a comparatively early stage in its development the trophozoite becomes surrounded by a thin membrane (fig.
4), which later forms a cyst wall enclosing the spores (fig.
7).
The full-grown trophozoite has a diameter of 9-11 microns, and contains a large number of deepl}' staining nuclei which are usually irregular in outline (fig.
5).
The multinucleated body soon segments into a mass of spores (fig.
6), which become round or oval as soon as separation is effected (fig.
7).
The mature cysts arc about 15 microns in diameter and they are invariably rounded, unless, as occasionally happens, they are distorted by contact with adjacent cysts.
Each cyst contains at least 30 spores.
As the spores are closely crowded together, I have not been able to make out the exact number in any one cyst or to determine whether the number is constant for all of the cysts.
The young spore has granular cytoplasm and a single, deeply staining nucleus (fig.
7, a).
It resembles somewhat the stage of the parasite shown in fig.
1, a; but as it is considerably smaller and is always enclosed in a cyst, the two stages are easily distinguished.
In their later history the majority of the spores follow one of two clearly marked modes of development, which, for convenience in description, will be designated as Type I and Type II.
The first change that takes place in the spores that develop according to Type I is the appearance of a clear area around the nucleus which occupies the centre of the spores (fig.
7, h).
Owing to the small size of the spores it is impossible to determine whether the nucleus suddenly becomes vesicular at this time or whether the clear area is a fluid vacuole.
Judging from the changes that take place in later stages of development, I am inclined to the opinion that the character of the nucleus does not change at this time and that the clear area around the nucleus is a vacuole.
Soon after the formation of the vacuole the nucleus divides (fig.
7, c) and, as the spore elongates, the two nuclei separate and move to opposite ends of the vacuole which increases considerably in size (figs.
8, 9) ; subsequently the vacuole itself divides and each part comes to surround one of the nuclei (fig.
10).
At the next stage the vacuoles, with the nuclei, are found at the ends of the spore which has now attained its final shape (fig.
11).
The nuclei appear as large and stain as deeply at the stage of fig.
11 as they do in the young parasite; but in a slightly older spore they are considerably smaller and stain much less intensely (fig.
12).
At a later period all traces of the nuclei are lost and the vacuoles appear perfectly clear and transparent (figs.
13, 14).
During all stages in the development of the parasite up to that of fig.
13, the cytoplasm appears granular and stains very faintly.
When the nuclei disappear at the stage of fig.
13, the cytoplasm in contact with the vacuoles shows a strong affinity for the iron-haematoxylin, although the rest of the spore stains as faintly as before.
In a slightly older stage the central portion of the cytoplasm stains as intensely as the end regions, and the entire spore, excepting the vacuoles, appears uniformly black (fig.
14).
Somewhat later the vacuoles begin to decrease in size (fig.
15) and eventually they too disappear.
The mature spore (fig.
16) is about 3 microns long and 1.5 microns wide; the ends are oval and a slight constriction is usually found in the middle region.
In a single section of a cell of Bidder's organ one may find as many as 15 cysts, containing spores in practically all stages of development, from that shown in fig.
7, a, to that of the mature spore shown in fig.
16.
As cysts containing spores that stain very faintly may lie adjacent to cysts in which the spores are all stained black, it is evident that the great affinity of the cytoplasm for the iron-hsematoxylin is not due to an overstaining of the material, but to some change taking place in the substance of the spore itself.
As the more intense staining of the cytoplasm of the spore is invariably coincident with the disappearance of the nuclei from the vacuoles, it would seem as if the two phenomena must be related in some way ; and it is possible that, after the stage of fig.
1 1 , the chromatin substance gradually becomes distributed throughout the cytoplasm and brings about a deeper staining of the spore contents.
Although I have found a large number of spores in which the nuclei are of various sizes and stain with different degrees of intensity at the outer border of the vacuoles, I cannot be certain that the nuclei break down at this place; for I have found several spores like those shown in figs.
24 and 25, in which two nuclei lie in the cytoplasm after the vacuoles have moved to the ends of the spore.
I have not succeeded in finding any stages that would seem to connect fig.
11 with fig.
24, yet it is possible that soon after the stage of fig.
11 the nuclei pass quickly from the vacuoles into the cytoplasm which at once stains more intensely.
From the evidence at hand, I am inclined to believe that the spores shown in figs.
24 and 25 are abnormal and that the nuclei gradually disintegrate at the outer border of the vacuoles.
In the second type of development, which is not as common as the type just described, the nucleus moves to one end of the spore and takes a position as shown in fig.
17.
A vacuole then forms around the nucleus as in Type I (fig.
18), and subsequently the nucleus divides (fig.
19).
Later the two nuclei, which stain as intensely as in the earlier stages, move to opposite ends (figs.
21, 22) or, in some few cases, to opposite sides (fig.
20) of the vacuole.
The vacuole increases in size as the spore elongates ; but, as far as I have been able to determine, it does not divide into two parts, as does the vacuole in the spores that follow the first type of development.
After the disappearance of the nuclei in the stage succeeding that of fig.
22 the vacuole gradually becomes smaller (fig.
23), and the entire spore stains black and appears as in fig.
16.
Deviations from these two types of development are not uncommon, some of the more striking variations being slunvn in figs.
2-i-.31.
The spore from which fig.
24 was drawn seems to be a variation of Type I, in which the nuclei have moved into the cytoplasm instead of towards the outer border of the vacuoles.
It is possible, as I have already suggested, that fig.
24 shows a normal stage in the development of the spore, and that it belongs between the stage of fig.
12 and that of fig.
13.
In the spore shown in fig.
25 it is evident that, when the vacuole divided, both nuclei remained in one of the two vacuoles that were formed (as is shown in fig.
28), and that they passed into the cytoplasm after the vacuole had taken its position at the end of the spore.
As indicated in fig.
25, the cytoplasm surrounding the nuclei stains considerably darker than that in the rest of the spore; and although the nuclei are clearly seen at this time, they are totally obscured in the following stage when the region in which they lie stains black (fig.
26).
A spore in which one nucleus only has left its vacuole is shown in fig.
27 ; while variations in the number, size, and situation of the vacuoles are shown in figs.
28-31.
I can offer no explanation as to the way in which the cells of Bidder's organ become infected with the parasite.
There is no direct means of communication betw^een this organ and the testis, and therefore it does not seem possible that infection was through the cloaca and the kidneys, hence by way of the testis to Bidder's organ.
As Bidder's organ contains a large number of capillaries, it seems most probable that infection took place through the blood.
Although I have^carefully examined sections of the blood vessels containing large numbers of corpuscles, I have found no traces of the parasite either in the corpuscles or in the plasma.
In one instance three mature spores were found in the plasma of a capillary in Bidder's organ ; but it seems probable that these spores were derived from one of the many cysts in the organ containing ripe spores.
As all of the large ova in Bidder's organ eventually degenerate, usually through the rupture of the outer wall and the penetration of a capillary into the interior, it is evident that the spores finally get into the circulation.
How they pass to the exterior and whether they subsequently undergo a further development in another host remains to be determined.
During recent years much interest has been taken in the life history of the Sporozoa which seem to infect many of the invertebrates as well as all classes of the vertebrates.
Interest in this group has naturally centred in the parasites infecting the mammals ; and the amphibians as a class have not been systematically examined, either in Europe or in 19 America, for Sporozoan parasites.
In the list of Sporozoa and their hosts recently compiled by Minchin,^ Bufo lentiginosus is given as the host of one known species, Leptotheca (Chloromyxum) ohlmacheri, a Myxosporidian which was first described in 1893 by Ohlmacher,^ who found it in the renal tubules.
In but two other instances have Sporozoan parasites been found in any species of Bufo, and comparatively few cases of infection have been recorded for the different species of Rana.
As presumably the amphibians are as subject to parasitic infection as are the other vertebrates, they would seem to afford a profitable field of investigation for the discovery of new Sporozoan forms.
Explanation of Plate XXII.
All figures were drawn with the aid of a camera lucida under a Zeiss apoc.
obj.
1.5 mm.
Oc.
8.
Fig.
1.
— ^The young parasite and its division stages.
Fig.
2.
— Trophozoite at the beginning of the growth period.
Fig.
3.
— Mitotic division of the nuclei of the young trophozoite.
Fig.
4.
— Formation of the cyst wall around the trophozoite.
Fig.
5.
— Mature trophozoite before its division into spores.
Fig.
6.
— Division of tlie trophozoite into spores.
Fig.
7.
— Cyst containing young spores.
Figs.
8-16.
— Stages in the development of spores according to Type I. Figs.
17-23.
— Stages in the development of spores according to Type II.
Figs.
24-31.
— Spores showing apparent deviations from the usual modes of development.
^ Minchin, E. A., Sporozoa: A Treatise on Zoology, edited bv E. Ra}' Lancaster, Pt.
I, 1903.
^ Olilmacher, A. P., Myxosporidia in the Common Toad, with Preliminary Observations on the Chromophilis Substance in the Spore, Journ.
Amer.
Med.
Assoc, Vol.
XX, 1893.
ORTHOPTERA FROM NORTHERN FLORIDA.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD, The material treated in this paper was collected by the authors between the 10th and 20th of August, 1905.
The localities at which collecting was done are treated below in detail.
The material has been divided between the collection of the Academy and the collection of the junior author, all types remaining in the latter.
The number of specimens examined is 1,356, representing eighty-nine species, of which four are described as new.
Localities.
Jacksonville, Duval County.
The few specimens taken at this locality were captured in a weed-covered lot near the railroad station, among the shrubbery in Hemming Park, on the street, on the Clyde Line wharf, and at a suburb on the St. John's River known as Riverside.
Pahlo Beach, Duval County.
This small communit}', existing almost entirely as a summer resort, is situated on the Atlantic coast of the peninsula, seven miles south of the mouth of the St. John's River and eighteen miles east of Jacksonville.
The characters of the regions or zones at this locality at which collecting was carried on are quite varied , and a detailed description is necessary.
The beach proper is very wide along this part of the coast, the angle of its slope is very slight, and its boundary formed by rather irregular sand dunes, some of which are thirty or more feet high.
The upper slopes and tops of the dunes are covered with a growth of scrub or saw palmetto (Serenoa serratula).
These dunes while irregular in height are very regular in the line of their steep barrier-like seaward slope.
Landward the (hmes drop into a level tract of sandy barrens varying from one to two or more miles in width and extending for a considerable distance up and down the coast.
The barrens are thickly covered with saw palmetto (Serenoa serratula) and several other low plants, making everywhere a low but thick tangle.
While usually dry in character this open saw-palmetto region has numerous wet spots, some with the sand little more than damp and others with considerable areas of true marsh with some of the accompanying vegetation.
About these marshy spots are frequently bushes ten or fifteen feet in height, which are the only vegetation of any height in the extensive "palmetto scrub," as this region is called in the following pages.
Farther north along the beach, and in a few localities about Pablo Beach, the ground immediately west of the shore dunes is covered with a dense tangle of numerous varieties of bushes, the majority of which are about ten feet high.
It was in these bushes that Cyrtophyllus was abundant.
Inland the broad tract of open country is bordered by another area, bearing a scattering growth of pine and an occasional cabbage palmetto {Sabal palmetto) growing on marshy soil, this zone being distinctly narrower than the preceding one.
West of the scattered pine belt is a strongly marked zone of "hammock" land, the arborescent species of which are varied but in a large part cabbage palmetto, all very closely placed and woven together with numerous lianas.
This zone is almost impenetrable, is about a mile in width and extends for miles up and down the coast, in most places being on higher ground than the immediately surrounding country.
Pablo Creek flows north on the west side of the hammock, emptying into the St. John's near Mayport, and extensive dependent marshes are present on the east side of the stream, between it and the "hammock" land.
In little scattered areas here are marshy pine woods, but in no place in this creek marsh was the collecting found to be good.
Still farther inland, west of the stream and beginning at the w^estern edge of the creek marsh, is the extensive long-leaf pine {Pinus palnstris) forest which stretches westward to the St. John's.
Access to these various zones was gained chiefly by means of a railroad embankment, along the sides of wdiich, in wet drains overgrown with grass and in cleared grass and weed covered right-of-way, much good collecting was done.
San Pablo, Duval Counttj.
This locality is situated in the long-leaf pine forest three miles west of Pablo Beach.
The undergrowth in the woods here was dry and chiefly wire-grass.
This situation was the nearest to Pablo Beach at which typical pine woods collecting could be secured.
The Orthoptera taken at this locality showed a considerable affinity to that taken in the open saw palmetto at Pablo Beach.
Gainesville, Alachua County, is situated in northern Florida, sixtytwo miles in an air-line southwest of Jacksonville.
The region is that of the long-leaf pine {Pinus palustris) and forests of this noble tree surround the town, although large areas have been cleared and are either under cultivation or grown up as characteristic Southern "okl fields."
Excellent collecting was found here in the undergrowth in the pine woods, the gallberry bushes, scrub oaks and wire grass affording excellent cover.
In several flooded sink-holes in the pine woods we found among the surrovuiding marsh grasses such moisture-loving forms as Leptysma, Sienacris and Eotdtix palustris.
Owing to the fact that our stay was limited to a day and a half, the collection from this locality doubtless does not include many species which might be found there, biit the results for that length of time were extremely satisfactory.
Cedar Keys.
Levy County.
On a small coquina islet in the northern Gulf of Mexico, a short distance from the Florid an mainland, is the town of Cedar Keys.
The town is on one of a number of keys to which collectively its name is applied.
The surface of the main key is slightly rugged and the soil poor, owing to the almost bare coquina rock.
Outside of the village scattered groves of short-leaf pine, numerous palmettos and an undergrowth of waist-high bushes comprise the principal floral features of the dry land.
There are many large Indian shell-mounds on the key, and on them the forest growth is thickest.
The key is indented by many lagoons and bays, along the edges of which are many wide areas of salt-marsh grass in which Orthoptera was exceedingly abundant.
Palatka, Putnam County.
The material from this locality was taken in the town proper.
St. Augustine.
St. John County.
The few specimens from this locality were taken in the hotel grounds in the evening.
FORFIOULIDuE.
Anisolabis maritima (Bonaterre).
A pair of this species was taken from under rubbish on a lot in the city of Jacksonville, August 11.
Anisolabis annulipes (H. Lucas).
This widely distributed species was taken at three localities: Jacksonville, August 11, in company with A. maritima, one male; Pablo Beach, August 11 (marsh), one female; Cedar Keys, August 15, one female.
Labia burgessii Scudder.
Three females of this species were taken at Cedar Keys, August 15.
Labia guttata Scudder.
This species is represented by a single female from San Pablo, taken August 13 from under pine bark.
BLATTID^.
Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn.
An adult female of this species was taken at Pablo Beach, August 11, from under palmetto root.
Eurycotis floridana (Walker).
Two females from Cedar Keys, August 15, represent this species.
Periplaneta americana (Linmeus).
This species was noticed at every locality visited in Florida.
Periplaneta australasise (Fabricius).
This species is represented by a nymph from Cedar Keys, August 15, taken under adherent dead petiole bases of palmetto.
Mature individuals were seen at St. Augustine and Palatka.
Periplaneta truncata Krauss.
The evening of August 20 this species was found very abundant on the Clyde Line wharf at Jacksonville.
Portions of the wharf under the electric lights seemed to be their favorite haunts, and when disturbed they scurried rapidly away or hid in the crevices between the planking.
A series of seven males, eleven females and two nymphs are in the collection.
Unquestionably this species is becoming more generally distributed in the Gulf States, and from the evidence in hand its strongholds are probably the larger ports, to which it has no doubt been brought by shipping from the tropics.
The series mentioned above exhibits considerable variation in the length of the tegmina and wings.
Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linnseus).
A series of six females represent this species, the localities being Cedar Keys, August 15, Gainesville, August 17 (in room), Palatka, August 19, and St. Augustine, August 19.
The Cedar Keys specimens are all small and quite dark, with the pale cephalic line on the pronotum broadly interrupted in the middle and much reduced laterad.
The individuals from the other localities have the tegmina paler, the cephalic pronotal margin distinctly and continuously marked and the general size greater.
MANTID^.
Stagmomantis Carolina (Johannson).
This species is represented by five nymphs from Pablo Beach, August 11 and 13 (in grass, palmetto scrub and pine woods), two nymphs from Gainesville, August 16 (undergrowth in pine woods), and one adult female specimen from Cedar Keys, August 15.
The latter specimen, while fully adult, has the tegmina and wings but slightly exceeding the margin of the second abdominal segment.
Thesprotia graminis (Scudder).
One male from Gainesville, August 16 (undergrowth in pine woods), represents this species.
PHASMIDiB.
MANOMERA.'
n. gen. 1900.
Bncunculus Scudder, Proc.
Davenport Acad.
Nat.
Sci., VIII, p. 9.5.
[Not of Burmeister, 1838.]
190.3.
Bacunculus Caudell, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXVI, p. 872.
[Not of Burmeister.]
i , On comparison of material of Scudder's Bacunculus tenuescens with specimens and figures of typical species of Ileteronemia Gray {Bacunculus of authors, but not of Burmeister), it is evident that no close relationship exists in that direction, and affinity really exists with Diapheromera instead of Bacunculus of authors.
The original description given by Scudder omits mention of the very distinct spines present on the median femora of the male, although his figures (pi.
1, figs.
1 and 2) show their presence.
On the basis of Scudder's description, Caudell, who had never seen the male sex, says, in describing the genus, ''Legs of male unarmed."
The spine of the median femora of the male is placed in the same position as in Diapheromera, and is very similar in character but slenderer, the caudal femora, however, being unarmed.
The structure of the abdominal appendages is fundamentally the same as in Diapheromera and not as in Heteroneniia, the subgenital opercule being in no way like the latter genus.
From Diapheromera, Manomera can be separated in the male by the slender head, the absence of caudal femoral spines, the uninfiated median femora and the more elongate abdominal appendages.
Manomera tenuescens (Scudder).
A male from Pablo Beach, August 12, another from San Pablo, August 13, and three males and five females from Gainesville, August 16, represent this peculiar Florida form.
The male from Pablo Beach was swept from marsh grass, but all the other individuals taken w^ere from the wire-grass and other low undergrowth in pine woods, where protective resemblance would appear to be an important factor in the life of the insect.
The specimeas vary considerably in size, particularly in the male sex, ' Mavof, thin; nipa, thighs.
and represent two color phases, brown and green forms.
These forms may be sexual as all the males are of the brown type and the females of the green, but it is hardly safe to assume this to be true on the amount of material in hand.
The base color of the dorsum in the male varies from raw sienna to vandyke brown, the legs in all the specimens being greenish proximad, shading into olive or decided brownish distad.
The lateral yellowish stripe is prominent in all the males, becoming whitish on the abdomen and extending to the base of the cerci.
In the female this stripe is usually less prominent, and in one specimen is almost absent.
Aside from the above records this species has been recorded from Cedar Keys, Capron and Biscayne, Florida.
Anisomorpha buprestoides (Stoll).
Four males and three females from Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, four males and six females from San Pablo, August 13, and one female from Gainesville, August 16, comprise the series of this species.
Except for a Pablo Beach specimen taken in open palmetto scrub, all are from undergrowth in pine woods.
A large part of the specimens were taken in coitu, and in one case two pairs and a single individual were taken from one plant.
From the material in hand it does not appear possible to separate two species, for while typical female specimens of what CaudelP calls ferruginea (Palisot) are in the series from San Pablo and a number of the others are true buprestoides, specimens from Gainesville and Pablo Beach connect the two extremes, the pale ferruginea and the strongly trilineate buprestoides.
All the males collected are unquestionally true buprestoides.
A pair from Osprey, Manatee County, Florida, in the Academy collection approach the pale type.
AORIDID^.
Nomotettix oristatus Scudder.
This species is represented by seven males and one female from Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, one male and one female from San Pablo, August 13, and seven males, four females and two nymphs from Gainesville, August 16 and 17.
In the region examined this species appears to have little preference for one particular environment, as the Pablo Beach series contains specimens taken in undergrowth in open pine woods, on damp sand, in palmetto scrub and in grass.
The San Pablo specimens were taken in pine woods undergrowth, and the Gainesville series in the same character of surroundings except one from the edge of a sink-hole.
^ Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXVI, pp.
880, 882.
Neotettix femoratus (Scudder).
One male and three females from Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13. taken in open pine woods undergrowth and palmetto scrub, represent this species.
All the specimens are short-winged.
Neotettix bolteri Hancock.
An adult female and a nymph from Gainesville, August 16 and 17, belong to this rather scarce species.
One was taken from a marshy sink-hole, the other in pine woods undergrowth.
Apotettix rugosus (Scudder).
A male individual from Cedar Keys, August 15, appears to represent this species.
In the proportions of the pulvilli of the caudal tarsi it does not agree with the description given by Hancock,^ and resembles in this respect the much smaller Apotettix minutus Rehn and Hebard, It is possible this specimen may not be true rugosus, but in all characters but the pulvilli proportions it is fully typical of that species, Tettigidea spicata Morse.
A single male from San Pablo, August 13, was taken in undergrowth in pine woods.
It belongs to the form with the elongate pronotum.
Tettigidea lateralis (Say).
This variable species is represented by a series of eight males and seven females from Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, and one male from Gainesville, August 16.
Individuals were taken in swampland, palmetto scrub, in undergrowth in pine woods and on damp sand.
All the specimens are of the type with the produced pronotum, and considerable variation in the cephalic angle of the pronotum is observed.
Radinotatum brevipenne (Thomas).
This peculiar grasshopper was numerous in localities in pine woods undergrowth at Gainesville, August 16, two males, five females and one nymph being collected.
At Pablo Beach, August 11 to 13, two males and five nymphs were taken in grass, palmetto scrub, pine woods undergrowth, and one of the males in marshland.
Compared with spring experience around Thomasville, Ga., this species is not as common in the summer, but the number of adults is proportionately greater.
Mermiria alacris Scudder.
This strikingl}^ colored species was numerous in pine woods undergrowth and palmetto scrub at Pablo Beach, August 11 and 13, six adult males, four females and three nymphs being collected.
A single female from San Pablo, August 13, and three males from Gainesville, 3 The Tettigidce of N. A mer., p. 104.
August 16, were taken in pine woods.
Cedar Keys is represented by a single male taken August 15.
Mermiria vigilans Scudder.
This species is more distinctly a marsh-loving form when compared with M. alacris, its favorite habitat being tall marsh grass in extensive tracts or narrow marsh drains.
At Pablo Beach this species was common, particularly in a wet grassy drain along the railroad embankment, a series of fourteen males and twelve females being collected on August 11 and 12.
At Cedar Keys, August 15, two males and two females were taken in salt marsh.
In the series studied four females are in the green phase, while several males exhibit a similar tendenc3\ Mermiria intertexta Scudder.
A single male from Pablo Beach, August 13, represents this species, which can be separated from vigilans by the broader, distinctly triangular fastigium and the narrower disk of the pronotum.
Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler).
This species is partial to palmetto scrub and pine woods cover, being common but nowhere abundant at the localities visited.
Pablo Beach is represented by seven males and four females taken August 11 to 13; Gainesville by three males, two females and one nymph; Cedar Keys, August 15, by one male.
All the specimens seen from Georgia and Florida are considerably larger than New Jersey individuals of the same sex.
Maoneillia obscura Scudder.
In a restricted area in long-leaf pine woods at Gainesville, on August 16, this species was found in the undergrowth in moderate numbers, all the specimens seen being taken.
A partiality on the part of the species for low oak growth was noticeable.
The series in our hands from this locality consists of four adult males, six females and four nymphs.
One of the males, two of the females and two nymphs have the median pronotal bar strongly marked, while one male and two females have it weaker but still quite apparent.
Amblytropidia occidentalis (Saussure).
Eight immature specimens from Pablo Beach, August 11-13, and four from Gainesville, August 16, appear to represent this species.
Aside from individuals taken in dry palmetto scrub, these immature specimens were from pine woods undergrowth, in situations such as are favored by the adults in spring.
15)07.]
XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PIIir^ADELPIlIA.
287 Orphulella pratorum Scinldor.
The speciiueus from the locahties given for this species have been compared with material from New Jersey, ^Maryland, Georjjia, Florida and Alabama, all of which is considered by the authors to belong to this species.
The Florida series here studied presents the usual color forms found in the species and was collected in a variety of habitats, ranging from dry pine woods undergrowth to open marsh.
The localities represented are Pablo Beach, August 11-13, eight males, four females; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, six males, four females; Palatka, August 19, one female; Cedar Keys, August 15, two males.
Nymphs were taken at Pablo Beach and Gainesville, and an adult male was taken during a train stop at Fairfax, S. C. August 10.
Orpliulella pelidna (Burmeister).
7 The specimens here referred doubtfull}' to Burmeister's species have been carefully compared with the available determined material of this poorly understood species, and while they differ in a number of features from the other specimens, it can be positively asserted that they are not the allied olivacea or extremely large specimens of the species we consider to be Scudder's pratorimi.
In size these specimens exceed any other North American individuals of the genus seen by us, particularly in the female sex.
The fastigium is shaped much as in Nebraska specimens considered pelidna, but the tegmina and wings are very long, slender and not as broad as in pratorum.
The largest male measures, length of body 20 mm; length of pronotum 4; length of tegmen 18.2; length of caudal femur 12.5; the largest female, length of body 27.5; length of pronotum 5; length of tegmen 23; length of caudal femur 17.
Aside from one male taken at Pablo Beach, August 12, the series of eleven males and twelve females were taken at Cedar Keys, August 15.
Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder).
This widely distriljuted species is represented by a series of twenty specimens, eight of which are in the brown phase.
Jacksonville is represented by three males and six females, taken August 11, on a weedy lot in the middle of the city ; Pablo Beach by three males, four females and two nymphs, taken August 11, 12 and 13, all in marsh except one male and a nymph from palmetto scrub and another nymph from grass ; Gainesville is represented by two males and one female.
August 16, in pine woods undergrowth and meadows.
Clinocephalus pulcher Uchn and Hebard.
This beautiful species is represented by an instructive series of fort yseven males and sixteen females, which show that it is quite closely related to C. degans.
A series of twenty-one New Jersey specimens of the latter species has been used for comparison and the differential characters are here treated separately.
Size.
— This was the first character given in the diagnosis of pulcher, and the series in hand shows that pulcher is almost invariably larger than elegans, one male and one female alone being as small as the largest representatives of their respective sexes in the elegans series.
The majority are as large, in general size, as the measurements of the types of pulcher.
Tegmina.
— In none of the specimens examined are the tegmina quite as long as in the types of pulcher, and in the majority, particularly the east coast specimens, they are decidedly shorter, often no longer proportionately than in elegans.
Fastigium.
— In the series of pulcher here studied the angle of the fastigium is less acute than in elegans.
Some variation exists in the exact form of the angle, i.e., the divergence of the margins; but as a whole, and in the vast majority of individuals, the fastigium is broader and less acute in both sexes.
Frontal casta.
— In both sexes of pulcher the sulcation of the frontal costa is less pronounced and more rounded than in elegans, some of the Cedar Keys specimens having the sulcation very greatly reduced.
Color.
— From a type similar to that found in C. elegans all the forms mentioned in the original description are contained in the series, in addition to which patterns there are several which suggest species of Orphulella in the way the dorsum is washed with rose purple.
.
To summarize, it appears that Clinocephalus pulcher is a southern representative of C. elegans, reaching its maximum of differentiation in southern Florida (Miami), where, as far as present material goes, it is a long-winged, or for the genus a long-winged, form.
The specimens here referred are, on this account, not fully typical, but they are nearer to pulcher than to the small northern elegans.
Gulf coast (Cedar Keys) specimens are as a rule nearer to typical pulcher than east coast (Pablo Beach and San Pablo) specimens, while interior specimens (Gainesville) are rather curious in that the males are similar to Cedar Keys males and the single available female is like east coast specimens.
That elegans and pulcher should be considered distinct appears to be the best way to handle the evidence the specimens give, the form of the fastigium and the depth of the sulcation of the frontal costa being "degree of difference" characters fully worthy of consideration, while the greater size of pulcher, and the complex coloration which it very frequently exhibits and which we have never seen in elegans, are to be given due consideration.
At Pablo Beach this species was abundant in a variety of localities, in dry palmetto scrub and undergrowth in pine woods, in rank grass growing in a wet drain along a railroad embankment and in open marshy spots.
Twenty-four males, eleven females and two nymphs were taken at this locality, August 11 to 13.
In pine woods at San Pablo two females were taken on August 13, and in a similar situation and at a wooded sink-hole two males and one female were taken August 16 and 17 at Gainesville.
Cedar Keys is represented by twentyone males, five females and two nymphs taken, August 15, in salt marsh and in palmetto scrub in open pine woods.
Here the species was more abundant in salt marsh.
CEDIPODIX.E.
Arphia xanthoptera (Burmeister).
A single female of this species from San Pablo, August 13, is in the collection.
It was taken in pine woods undergrowth.
Arphia granulata Saussure.
Five males, three females and one nymph of this species were taken at Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, all captured in open palmetto scrub except one from grass.
There is a perceptible amount of variation in the arcuation of the crest of the pronotum, the majority having it distinctly but slightly arcuate, while the coloration of the caudal tibiae is also variable, a pale disto-median annulus being present more or less distinctly in the majority of the specimens.
With two exceptions the specimens have blackish brown predominating, the others being dull brownish.
Euooptolophus costalis (Scudder).
This species enjoys a much wider distribution in the southeastern States than has usually been supposed to be the case.
The present collection contains representatives from Jacksonville (one female, August 11, on city lot), Pablo Beach (three males, four females, August 11 and 12, palmetto scrub, grass and strand), Gainesville (one male, August 17, palmetto scrub) and Cedar Keys (one male, August 15).
In coloration a great amount of variation is present, the shades of brown ranging to seal brown, while the ochres are equally variable.
One female from San Pablo has the whole head and pronotum, the better part of the caudal femora and patches on the distal portion of the tegmina green, while the Jacksonville individual has some green present on the tegmina, in the same position as on the above specimen.
An examination of available material shows this species to range along the Gulf coast from Texas to eastern Florida and south-central Georgia, the similarity of color phases and general appearance having caused in some instances its confusion with Chortophaga viridifasciata.
Specimens from the following localities can be assigned to this species : Ocklockonee River and Thomasville, Thomas County, Ga. ; Miami, Dade County, and Chokoloskee, Monroe County, Fla. Caudell has recorded it from Key West and Sanford, while the records of Chortophaga viridifasciata given by the authors^ also belong to this species, as a re-examination of the material show^s.
Tampa is the only locality in the latter paper additional to those mentioned above.
Spharagemon boUi Scudder.
Two males and four females from Pablo Beach in open palmetto scrub, August 11 and 12, and a pair from Cedar Keys in palmetto scrub in pine woods, August 15, represent this species.
The variations \isually noticed in any series of this species, i.e., shade of general color and strength of tegminal and femoral bars, are hardly as great as in northern specimens, and as a rule the specimens are more uniform than Maryland and New Jersey individuals.
Spharagemon coUare wyomingianum (Thomas).
A single female from grassland at Gainesville, August 17, represents this race.
The mottling of the head, pronotum, tegmina and femora is less striking than in New Jersey specimens of this form.
Soirtetica picta (Scudder).
A series of four males and two females from Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, and two males from Gainesville, August 17, represent this species.
The Pablo Beach specimens were taken in a variety of habitats — strand, open palmetto scrub and along railroad tracks — while the Gainesville individuals are from palmetto scrub and grassland.
One Pablo Beach specimen is quite vmiform warm brown in color, the pale tegminal markings and the dark femoral bars alone but moderately indicated.
The other extreme type, with great contrast between the bone white markings and blackish brown areas, is represented by one specimen from Pablo Beach, the remaining specimens presenting degrees of coloration intermediate between the two extremes.
This species was noticed but not captured at Riverside, near Jacksonville.
Psinidia fenestralis (Serville).
This sand-loving species was taken at Jacksonville, one male, one * Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, p. 38. female, August 11 and 20; Pablo Beach, three males, two females, one nymph, August 11 and 12, and Gainesville, one male and three females, August 16 and 17.
At Jacksonville it was taken on a city lot and in a sandy field near the city; at Pablo Beach on the strand and in open palmetto scrub, and at Gainesville in palmetto scrub in pine woods and in grassland.
Trimerotropis oitrina Scudder.
This widely ranging species is represented by material from Jacksonville and Pablo Beach.
A single male from the former locality was taken August 11 on a city lot, and six males and four females from Pablo Beach were taken August 11,12 and 13 on the strand, in palmetto scrub and along the railroad track.
The strand was, however, the place of greatest abundance.
A male taken at Swansea, Lexington County, S. C, August 10, in a sandy road is also referable to this species.
LOCUSTIN.t.
Diotyophorus guttatus (Stoll).
This curious grasshopper was numerous in tall weeds along the railroad track a short distance west of Pablo Beach, five males and two females being taken on August 13.
The species was more abundant than the collected material would indicate as the remains of dozens of specimens were found along the track, the majority having been crushed by the wheels of the trains.
The section where they were most mimerous was bordered on the sides by woodland, and in the more open regions the species was not noticed.
A female was captured on the hotel porch at Pablo Beach, August 12, and a single female was taken at Gainesville, August 16, in imdergrowth in pine woods.
Nymphs of this species were not noticed during the trip.
Stenacris chlorizans Walker.
At Pablo Beach, in open marshy spots scattered over the palmetto scrub, this species was numerous in grass of moderate height, and in a swampy area of tall grass north of the railroad track it was equally at home.
In all situations its actions were similar to those noticed in the vicinity of Thomasville,^ except that grass was used as a resting place instead of cat-tails, which did not occur except in the more pronounced portions of the wet areas.
Nine males and five females were taken at this locality, August 11.
Three males and two females were taken at Gainesville, August 17, in a marshy sink-hole in the pine woods.
Over half the specimens collected have the lateral pale bars either distinctly or slightly marked, while the dorsal aspect is strongly pur» Vide Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, pp.
787, 78S.
plish in one male and slightly so in several others.
But four specimens are of the full green coloration, i.e., without lateral pale bars or traces of dorsal suffusion of purplish.
Leptysma marginicoUis (Serville).
This species was found at Pablo Beach associated with the preceding.
Two males, six females and four nymphs, representing two stages, were collected on August 1 1 .
The least developed of the nymphs was taken in palmetto scrub.
The lateral pale bars are strongly indicated in but foiuof the adult specimens.
Sohistoceroa amerioana (Drury).
Two females taken at Gainesville, August 16 and 17, in grassland and in undergrowth in pine woods, represent this species.
Schistocerca damnifica (Saussure).
Two males from Pablo Beach (August 11 and 12), one from San Pablo (August 13) and another from Gainesville represent this species.
The Pablo Beach individuals were taken in open palmetto scrub and the others in undergrowth in pine woods.
An interesting fact concerning this species is that New Jersey specimens have the tegmina and wings distinctly shorter than Florida and Georgia specimens, the tegmina also with distal extremity broad and blunter, while the antennae are usually longer and slenderer in the southern specimens.
This species was noticed but not captured at Riverside, near Jacksonville.
ScMstocerca alutacea (Harris).
The authors being of the opinion that S. alutacea (Harris) and rubiginosa (Scudder) represent color phases of the same species, the two types are here treated together.
Fifteen males and ten females are included in the collection, of which three males and one female represent the alutacea type, the others being similar to northern " rubigitiosa" individuals from the immediate coast, but with longer tegmina and wings than representatives from points in the interior of the pine barrens of New Jersey.
The entire series except one male is from Pablo Beach, taken August 11 and 12, all from open palmetto scrub except one female of the alutacea form taken in a swampy spot.
Two males of the alutacea type — in fact the only males of this type taken at PabloBeach — were collected in the open palmetto scrub in association with ^'rubiginosa" type.
Gainesville is represented by one male of the alutacea type, taken August 17 in grassland.
The "ruhu/inofia" individuals from Pablo Beach are identical with individuals from the coast of southern New Jersey, i.e., Cape May and Anglesea.
The form found in the interior of the New Jersey pine rei>;ion possesses short tegmina and wings and, as a rule, is of smaller size.
If the recognition of alutacea and rubiginosa as distinct species is conceded, it would also be necessary to sej^arate the pine land type from the coast dune type.
Schistoceroa obscura (Fabricius).
This form, which is separated from alutacea by the narrower incision of the subgenital plate of the male and the color of the caudal limbs, is represented by three males and five females.
Of these six were taken at Pablo Beach, August 11 and 12, in tall marsh grass and open palmetto scrub; one female at Gainesville, August 16, in undergrowth in pine woods, and another at Denmark, Bamberg County, S. C, August 10, in high w^eeds.
The males here referred to this species have the subgenital plate with the lateral portions lapped over the incision, while the caudal tibia) are decidedly blackish in all except in one female which has them blackish purple.
The bars on the dorsal face of the caudal femora are indicated more or less distinctly in all the individuals, but in no case are they prominent.
The general base color of all the females, and to a lesser extent of the males, is maroon, while the size appears to be greater in the female than in the average of alutacea.
The coloration of the female of this species is very striking, but the males do not present so rich an appearance.
The real value of this form as distinct from S. alutacea cannot l^e fully determined without the study of a large amount of material, as the single character of the narrower incision of the male subgenital plate alone can be relied upon, the greater length of the antennae, size and coloration being variable in the allied species.
Two female specimens of this species from Maryland have also been examined, one from Chestertown (August 17, 1898; E. G. Vanatta), the other from Druid Hill Park, Baltimore (September, 1902; H. A. Wenzel).
These specimens extend the range of the species considerably to the north of the former northern limit— North Carolina.
Gymnoscirtetes pusillus Scudder.
This peculiar species is represented in the collection l)y a most interesting series of 153 specimens taken as follows : Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, sixty-eight males, fifty-nine females, two nymphs; San Pablo, August 13, seven males, four females; Gainesville, August 17, foiumales and seven females; Cedar Keys, August 15, one female.
As a whole the series shows a considerable amount of variation in 20 size in both sexes, but the extremes of the female are proportionately greater.
The Gainesville series as a whole is slightly smaller than the average of Pablo Beach and San Pablo individuals.
The smallest male and female measure 12.7 and 16.3 mm.
in length of body; the largest 15.3 and 22 mm., all measured individuals being from Pablo Beach.
The structural variations noticed in Georgia specimens of this species® are also present in this series.
The chief color variation in the dried specimens is the depth and extent of the purplish-brown dorsal color.
The habitats frequented bj' this species are open palmetto scrub, open marsh, tall marsh grass, undergrowth in pine woods and grassland, by far the greater number of specimens being taken in the palmetto scrub, and all situations are represented in the Pablo Beach series.
One specimen from the latter locality was the prey of an asilid fly (Diogrmifes, probably winthemi Wied.)
but little larger than the Gynmoscirtetes itself.
The localities at which this species has been taken, in addition to those given above, are Jacksonville (type locality) and De Funiak Springs, Fla., Way cross and Thomasville, Ga. Eotettix signatus Scudder.
This beautiful species is represented by a series of ten males and four females taken at Pablo Beach, August 11, in marshy spots scattered over the palmetto scrub area back of the beach dunes.
In size the specimens are quite uniform, and as the female sex has not been recorded the following measurements of it may be of some interest : Length of body 26.5 mm.
; length of pronotum 6.2; length of tegmen 7.6; length of caudal femur 15.5.
In color the little variation that is appreciable is probably due to discoloration in drying.
The only previous record of this species is the original reference, the typical material being one male from East Florida.
Eotettix palustris Morse.
At Gainesville, in the rank vegetation around a flooded sink-hole in pine woods, five males and five females of this species were taken on August 16 and 17.
In the female sex this species appears to be more variable than E. signatus, but the coloration is, as far as available material goes, constant except for a tendency to suffuse the whole insect with pinkish-red.
The extremes of the female sex measure 20.8 and 25 mm.
in length of body; 5 and 5.2 in length of pronotum; 4 and 4.8 in length of tegmen, and 12.3 and 14.6 in length of caudal femur.
« Vide Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
PhiUi., 1904, p. 789.
The only previous record of this species is from Live Oak, Suwanee County, Fla. Hesperotettiz floridensis Morse.
Two males and a female of this peculiar species were taken at Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, and a second female at San Pablo, August 13.
The Pablo Beach specimens were taken among grass in marshy spots in the palmetto scrub, and in tall grass growing in a wet drain along the railroad track.
The San Pablo specimen was taken in undergrowth in pine woods.
The previous records of this species are from Hastings, St. John County, Fla., and Waycross, Ware County, Ga. Melanoplus propinquus Scudder.
This austral representative of M. femur-ruhrum is represented by a series of thirty-three specimens taken at four localities, at all of which the species was abundant in a variety of situations.
The localities and dates are: Jacksonville, August 11, two males, one female; Pablo Beach, August 11-13, fourteen males, three females; Gainesville, August 16, four males, two females; Cedar Keys, August 15, three males, four females.
At Jacksonville it was taken on a city lot, while the Pablo Beach series was collected in palmetto scrub, open grassy stretches and in tall marsh grass.
Size is a very variable character in this species and does not appear to be correlated with exact environment, one of the smallest and one of the largest males both being from tall marsh grass at Pablo Beach.
Maximum and minimum measurements from Pablo Beach males are as follows : Length of body, 22.2 mm.
17.6 mm.
Length of pronotum, 5.1 " 4 " Length of tegmen, 20.2 " 15.8" Length of caudal femur, 13 " 10.7 " Melanoplus inops Scudder.
A series of sixty-nine specimens represents this species, which was taken at all the points where any amount of collecting was done.
The localities represented are: Pablo Beach, August 11-13, nine males, nine females; San Pablo, August 12, four males, three females; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, twenty males, fourteen females; Cedar Keys, August 15, two males, seven females, one nymph.
At Pablo Beach the species was numerous in the open palmetto barrens; at San Pablo, Gainesville and Cedar Keys it frequented the undergrowth in pine woods, sometimes, particularly at Cedar Keys, among saw palmetto.
The cerci of the males exhibit an appreciable amount of variation, and types with these appendages more curved or straighter than figured b}'' Scudder^ can be found in the series before us.
In some individuals the cerci are more robust, in others slenderer; in some the extreme apex is slightly narrowed, in others obliquely truncate.
The furcula are distinct in the majority of the specimens; in some present as considerably depressed trigonal lobes.
Specimens with the furcula obsolete as described in the type are in the minority.
In size the specimens from the Atlantic side of the peninsula average larger than those from the Gulf coast and the interior pine land (Gainesville), the San Pablo males also averaging as large as the largest Pablo Beach representative of the same sex.
As maximum and minimum measurements may be of interest the extremes of each sex are here given : Cedar Keys, San Pablo, Cedar Keys, Pablo Beach, Aug. 15: Aug. 13.
Aug. 15.
Aug. 11. d & ?
?
Length of body, 14.6 mm.
17.5 mm.
17 mm.
21.6 mm, Length of pronotum, .
3.5 " 4.5 " 4.1 " 5 " Length of tegmen, .
2.7 " 4 " 3.3 " 4.4 " Length of caudal femur, 9 " 10.8 " 11 '' 13 "• In coloration a considerable amount of variation is present in the tone of the general color and the presence or absence of femoral bars.
The dark dorsal sections of the lateral lobes of the pronotum vary considerably in depth, being very prominent and solid in some specimens and almost absent in others, which also holds true regarding the two dark bars on the dorsal aspect of the caudal femora.
These latter are quite broad, strongly contrasted and obliquely disposed in a few specimens, indicated in a less pronounced manner in the majority of specimens and almost absent in others.
These variations as well as those in the tone of the general color are irrespective of locality or sex.
The general tone varies from a grayish tendency through umbers to a burnt sienna type.
This species was described from a single male labelled "Florida," and up to this writing nothing additional has been published regarding it.
A female from Ijcmon City, Dade County, Fla., has also been examined, the tegmina of which are somewhat smaller than those of individuals from northern Florida.
Melanoplus keeleri (Thomas).
Thirteen specimens are referred to this trim species distributed as follows: Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, five males, one female; ' Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, pi.
XXII, fig.
4.
HV^T.]
XATURAL SCIENCES OF IMII I.ADKMMII A .
297 San Pablo.
August 13, two males, three females, one nymph; Gainesville, August 16, one male.
At Pablo Beach the species was found in palmetto scrub, in tall marsh grass and along a sparsely covered railroad embankment, while at San Pablo and Gainesville it was found in the undergrowth in pine woods.
In color the series exhibits a moderate amount of variation, chiefly in the shade of the base color, although the dark maculations also vary somewhat in extent and intensity in proportion to the depth of the base color, being weaker in the individuals with an ochraceous base and well marked in those with a brown general tint.
The caudal tibise are scarlet vermilion in all the adults and glaucous in the single nymph.
The form of the male cerci is as variable in the present series as in the one from south Florida previously studied by the authors,* and the extremes in the series of eight males are well marked and a number of intermediates are also present, the latter constituting the greater part of the lot.
The keeleri extreme with the slender elongate accessory lobe is on the other hand replaced by one with the accessory lobe almost absent, represented in fact by an angulation, while the other specimens when arranged according to their cereal character form a complete transition from one to the other.
On examining the original references of keeleri and deletor it is evident that the claim made by Scudder^ that keeleri is smaller than deletor is refuted by the measurements originally given from typical material.
Thomas gives the measurements of keeleri, a female, as follows : Length of body 1.12 inches (28.4 mm.
), length of tegmen .88 (22.3 mm.
), length of caudal femur .70 (17.7 mm.)
; while Scudder gives the following for deletor: Length of body, male 23.5 mm., female 30.5; length of tegmen, male 21, female 22; length of caudal femur, male 14.5, female 16.
It would appear from the records and evidence of material that this species is small toward the northern limit of its range (at least on the Atlantic coast) in North Carolina, from which region it ranges along the coastal plain and Gulf region to Texas and up the Mississippi to Missouri, reaching in southern Florida its maximum of size.
The type of keeleri was from Florida and those of deletor from Texas, the measurements of the original specimens of both species differing little, being very much the same as found in the material studied in this connection.
On the other hand south Florida (Miami) specimens are imiformly larger,'" an average pair measuring as follows : * Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila., 190.5, p. 40.
» Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mn.^., XX, p. 344. '"
This is also tnio of Mckinoplus puer (vHde Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, p. 40), Miami individuals of which are very considerably larger than north and central Florida representatives.
Length of body, 25 mm.
31 mm.
Length of pronotum, 6 " 7.2 " Length of tegmen, 27 " 25.5 " Length of caudal femur, L5.2 '' 18.2 " As I imagine Scudder's measurements, in his Revision of the MelanopH, were taken from the specimen of keeleri there figured, their small size is due to the fact the individual was from North Carolina.
On the evidence of the material examined I am compelled to consider Melanoplus deletor Scudder a synonym of Melanoplus keeleri (Thomas).
Paroxya atlantioa Scudder.
A series of fortyfive specimens represent this species, the several localities being as follows: Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, twentyseven males, seven females; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, six males, two females ; Cedar Keys, August 15, one male, two females.
At Pablo Beach the species was numerous among the tall grasses growing in extensive wet areas, drains and in the smaller marshy spots in the palmetto scrub, while at Gainesville the vicinity of a sink-hole in the pine woods was frequented.
Salt marsh was the environment in which it was found at Cedar Keys.
There is an appreciable variation in size in the Pablo Beach series, particularly in the males.
In color there is considerable variation in the degree of purity of the yellow color.
The two Gainesville females are deeper in color than the average Pablo Beach individuals, while both Cedar Keys females and one of two from Gainesville have the dorsum of the head, pronotum, caudal femora, face, limbs and ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum washed with, wine purple.
Paroxya floridiana (Thomas).
At Pablo Beach this species was found frequenting tall grass growing along a railroad drain, four males and two females being taken on August 11.
At Gainesville a single female was taken near a sink-hole in undergrowth in pine woods on August 16.
When compared with material from the northern portion of the range of the species the Florida specimens are seen to be much larger, and a comparison of material shows a steady increase in size as one proceeds southward.
In view of this fact comparative measurements of specimens from several points within the range of the species are here given.
No effort has been made in the selection of specimens for measurement to pick only those supporting the view expressed above, as on the contrary the individuals used have been taken haphazard 1907.]
299 wiien more than a single pair was available from the locality which it was desired to represent.
Males.
Length of body, Length of antenna, Length of pronotum, .
Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, Length of body, Length of pronotum, .
Length of tegmen, Length of caudal femur, Arner, Ontario.
20.6 mm.
13 " 4.3 " n.2 " 12 " Hear Swamp, Burl.
(V)., N.J. 22 mm.
13.1 '' 4.5 " 16 " 12 " Females.
Arner, Ontario, 32 mm.
6.5 " 18.6 " 15.8 " Clemen ton, N.J. 33.2 mm.
7 " 17.5 " 17 " Roslyn, Va. 24.2 mm.
16.5 " 5.2 " 16.4 " 14 " Roslyn, Va. 36.1 mm.
7.1 " 18.2 " 18.2 " Pa})lo Hoach, Fla. 32.5 mm.
19.5 " 6.8 " 22 " 17.5 *' Pablo Beach, Fla. 44 mm.
8.8 " 28.2 " 22.6 " Aptenopedes sphenarioides Scudder.
This interesting species is represented in the material collected by a series of eighty-six individuals.
The localities represented are Pablo Beach and Gainesville, the former by twenty-nine adult males, eleven adult females, six male nymphs and eighteen female nymphs; the latter by five adult males, one adult female, eleven male nymphs and five female nymphs.
At Pablo Beach it was taken August 11, 12 and 13, in dry palmetto scrub, undergrowth in open pine woods, in grassland and in tall marsh grass.
At Gainesville, on August 16 and 17, it was found chiefly in undergrowth in pine woods, the vicinity of a sink-hole being inhabited by it.
The nymphs represent two stages and show that the principal color characters of the adults are indicated for a considerable time before the individual is mature.
The size of the adult specimens is quite uniform in the Pablo Beach series, but the Gainesville males show a very appreciable amount of variation, the extremes measuring 18 and 20.8 mm.
in length of body.
Aptenopedes aptera Scudder.
A series of eighty-six specimens represent this interesting species.
Pablo Beach is represented by thirty-eight adult males, nineteen adult females, four male nymphs and nine female nymphs taken August 11, 12 and 13.
At this locality the species was found associated with A. sphenarioides particularly in the palmetto scrub, and but slightly less abundant than the latter species.
At San Pablo, August 13, two males and three females were taken in the undergrowth in the pine woods.
One adult male and five female nymphs were taken at Gainesville, August 16 and 17, in pine woods undergrowth, chiefly scrub palmetto.
Cedar Keys is represented by two adult males, one male nymph and two female nymphs, taken August 15 in pine woods undergrowth.
Two stages are represented in the nymphs from Pablo Beach, only one from the other localities.
This species does not possess two color phases differing markedly as in A. sphenarioides , most of the variation observed being in the intensity of the median abdominal bars and the lateral bars of the pronotum.
The nymphs in several instances have the abdominal bars strongly marked and almost wholly washed with purplish pink.
The Pablo Beach series of adults is quite uniform in size, several females alone being conspicuous on account of their smaller size.
The single Gainesville male, however, is distinctly larger than individuals of the same sex from any other locality, the length of body being 21.3 mm., while the largest Pablo Beach male measures 18.5.
This species has been recorded previously in Florida from Fort Reed, Orange County, Jacksonville, Duval County, and Miami, Dade Coimty.
A male from Gotha, Orange County, has also been examined.
TETTIGONID^.
Arethaea phalangium (Scudder).
A single female of this interesting species was taken in the undergrowth in pine woods at Gainesville, August 16.
This specimen was the only representative of the species noticed and constitutes the first record of the same from Florida.
The previous records are Georgia (Scudder, Brunner), Thomasville, Ga. (Rehnand Hebard), and Victoria, Texas (Caudell).
Scudderia texensis Saussure and Pictet.
This widely ranging species was taken at Pablo Beach and Gainesville, twomales being taken August 13 at the former locality and one of the same sex on Augvist 16 at the latter.
The environment at the first locality was open grassland and the slope of a railroad embankment and undergrowth in pine woods at the second.
Soudderia laticauda Brunner.
At San Pablo a single female of this large form was taken August 13 in pine woods undergrowth.
A series of three males and four females taken August 16 at Gainesville in a similar environment are also referred to this species.
The Gainesville males show close relationUH)7.]
XATruAi.
sriKX(i:s of i'hiladi:lphia.
301 ship in the form of tlie genitaha to the figure of »S.
curvicauda given by ScikUUm-, hut the females are unquestionably laticauda by the size and shape of the ovijiositor.
The males are larger than northern specimens of ctirvicauda, agreeing in this respect with the associated Gainesville females and also with the measurements given by the describer.
Soudderia cuneata Morse.
A single female from Pablo Beach, August 11, in palmetto scrub, represents this species.
A female from Miami has been used for comparison and the Pablo Beach individual differs only in its slightly smaller size.
The range of this species is now known to be from Alabama and southern Georgia (Thomasville) south to southern Florida (Miami).
Symmetropleara modesta Brunner.
This species, previously known only from the male tj^pe from "Carolina" and a female specimen from North Carolina, is represented by a male individual taken from floating water hyacinth {Piaropus crassipes) in the St. John's River by the wharves of Palatka, on August 18.
No other specimen of the species was noticed.
When compared with Brunner's original description the Palatka male is slightly larger than the type, and also differs in having the margins of the tympanum and the caudal margin of the tegmina lined with ochraceous, in addition to the angles of the pronotum mentioned in the original description.
The apices of the tegmina are slightly and the exposed portions of the wings are strongly washed with brownish.
Amblyoorypha floridana Rehn and Hebard.
A series of two males and six females represents this species, the original basis of which w^as chiefly damaged material.
With the material in this series more detailed comparisons can be made with A. ohlongifolia, to which floridana is closely allied.
The less curved form and rather smaller size of the ovipositor will serve to separate the female of floridana from that of oblongijolia, while in the male the tympanum is distinctly narrower, both actually and proportionally, than in ohlongifolia.
The lateral angles of the disk of the pronotum are as a rule by no means as sharply rectangulate as in ohlongifolia and the disk itself is broader caudad in the latter species.
From the evidence in hand it appears that floridana represents the southern extreme of ohlongifolia, as individuals from Thomasville, Ga., are as near floridana as ohlongifolia, the ovipositor being more curved and larger and the pronotal angles more distinct than in floridana, but the narrower tympanum and the comparatively narrower caudal section of the pronotal disk show relationship to the same species."
In no one of the characters, however, is an extreme represented, but an intermediate position is clearly recognizable.
Thus from the evidence in hand true floridana is apparently restricted to Florida, grading north over an undetermined area into true oblongifolia, the type locality of which is Pennsylvania.
The series in this collection was taken at Pablo Beach, August 11 and 13, two males, two females; San Pablo, August 13, one male, and Gainesville, August 16, three females.
At Pablo Beach individuals were taken in salt marsh, swampland and in tall bushes on the dunes, and at San Pablo and Gainesville in undergrowth in pine woods.
The San Pablo individual is in the pinkish phase of coloration.
Other individuals of A. oblongifolia in this type of coloration in the Academy collection are from Absecon, N. J., and Wood's Hole, Mass.
Amblycorypha ulileri Stai.
A single male of this species was taken at Gainesville, August 16, in undergrowth in pine woods.
This is the first Florida record of the species, Cyrtophyllus (Lea) floridensis Beutenmuller.
This interesting katydid was found to be abundant in certain bushes about eight to ten feet high growing on the land face of the dunes at Pablo Beach.
On August 12 six males and on August 13 nine males were captured.
They were taken wholly with the aid of their song which began shortlj^ before evening.
The song, as was stated by Beutenmuller, is distinctly different from that of C. perspicillatus , being much lower, decidedly weaker and consisting of single notes separated by regular intervals.
The generic name Lea proposed by CaudelPis not applied by us, as the characters assigned to the genus do not appear to the authors to be of sufficient weight to have generic value, although floridensis is to our mind worthy of being considered subgenerically distinct from C. perspicillatus.
The color of the living individuals was essentially as in the dried specimens, which were stuffed in the field and have lost but little in consequence.
The general dorsal color is bice green, becoming pale green on the limbs and olive-buff on the head and pronotum, the eyes cinnamon and the lateral margins of the disk of the pronotum and the tympanal fields of the tegmina raw umber.
The thickened anal vein >i Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, p. 795.
'2 Vide Journ.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc, XIV, pp.
34 and 42.
1907.]
XATrUAI.
SCIF.XCRS OF PIIILADKLFHIA.
303 of the male teiiiniiui aiul the sutural margins of the same are yellowish or light grecuisli.
Ill size the species exhibits a considerable amount of individual variation, and the measurements of the extremes of the series of males and also of a female specimen are here given : Length of bodv 30 mm.
40 mm.
38.5 mm.
Length of proriotum 6.4 " 7.5 " 7.5 " Width of caudal nuuiihi of the pronotum 6.3 " 7 " 6.8 " Length of tegmen 32 " 35 " 34.2 " Length of caudal fenun-, .
.
.
23.1 " 24.2 " 26 " Length of ovipositor, .... 18.2 " In addition to the fifteen Pablo Beach males a single female, of which the measurements are given above, from St. Augustine (C. W. Johnson) has been examined.
The range of the species is now known to extend in a narrow strip along the coast from Pablo Beach, Duval County, to the vicinity of Grant, Brevard County, Fla. Belocephalus subapterus Scudder.
A series of eleven specimens, one adult male, three adult females and seven immature individuals, represent this species.
At Pablo Beach it was found on August 11, 12 and 13, in palmetto scrub and in low growth along the railroad track, three of the adults being taken at that locality.
At San Pablo, August 13, one immature individual was taken in pine woods undergrowth.
The remaining specimens were taken at Gainesville, August 16, in pine woods undergrowth.
All the adults taken were in the green phase of coloration.
The range of this species now extends from Thomasville, Ga., to Miami and Chokoloskee, southern Florida, specimens having also been recorded from Fort Reed, Orange County, Fla., in addition to the localities given above.
Conocephalus retusus Scudder.
At St. Augustine a series of four males and two females of this species, were taken from the hedges of a garden on the evening of August 19.
WTien compared with the northern Conocephalus atlanticus Bruner.
this species is seen to differ only in the somewhat greater general size and in the longer caudal limbs.
Probably atlanticus will prove to be merely a smaller northern form of retusus, as a specimen from Roslyn^ Alexandria County, Va. (October 22, 1900; J.
A. G. Rehn), occupies an intermediate position.
Typical females of the two forms and the Roslyn specimen measure as follows : 304 [June, Length of body, Length of pronotum, .
Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur.
Length of ovipositor, .
Phila.
Neck, Roslvn, St Augustine Pa. Va. Fla. .
.
.
26 mm.
25.2 mm.
28.5 mm .
.
.
6.5 " 6.2 " 7.5 " .
.
.
28.S '' 30.5 " 34.5 " .
.
.
20.2 '' 22.5 " 26.5 " .
.
.
31 " 36.2 " 35 " Conocephalus mexicanus Saussure.
A single female of this species was taken at Cedar Keys, August 15.
The caudal femora are slightly longer than in a Tampa specimen, but otherwise the two are inseparable.
Conocephalus crepitans Scudder.
A single female of this species was taken at Warchard, Levy County, August 14, during a brief stop of the train.
It was in undergrowth in the pine woods close to the railroad track.
When compared with a female of the species from Lincoln, Neb., the Florida specimen differs only in the slightly longer legs and ovipositor, being identical in all other characters.
The measurements of the two specimens are as follows : Lincoln, Warchard, Neb.
Fla.
Length of body, 36.5 mm.
36 mm.
Length of pronotum, 8.5 " 8.8 " Length of tegmen, 55 '' 59.5 " Length of caudal femur, 28.8 " 34.8 " Length of ovipositor, 32.8 " 36.2 " The capture of this species in Florida carries its range a considerable distance east, the previously known range extending from Nebraska and Iowa south to Texas and Arkansas.
Conocephalus melanorhinus n. sp.
Type: 9 ; Cedar Keys, Levy County, Fla., August 12, 1905.
(Hebard and Rehn.)
Allied to C. rohustus Scudder and lyristcs Rehn and Hebard, differing from the former in the blunter fastigium which is almost wholly black ventrad, the narrower disk of the pronotum, the straighter tegmina and the slightly deeper and considerably shorter ovipositor.
From lyristes the new species differs in the larger size, the form of the fastigium, the more robust general form and the shorter ovipositor.
Size rather large; form elongate, rather slender.
Head with the fastigium hardly elevated dorsad of the level of the occiput; fastigium l[Kf, XATUK.VL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADKLPHIA.
305 distinctly longer'-' than the greatest width, apex blunt, sulitruncate, ventral tooth separated from the frontal fa,stigiuni; angle of the face very considerable; eyes little prominent, slightly flattened; antenna?
rather short, the length slightly exceeding that of the caudal femora.
Pronotum rugoso-punctate, the dorsum deplanate, the lateral angles distinct caudad but not sharp ; cephalic margin of the disk with a very slight median emargination, caudal margin of the disk moderately arcuate, lateral margins of the disk slightly diverging caudad; lateral lobes of the pronotvmi distinctly longer than deep, cephalic margin considerably oblique, caudal margin with a deep rectangulate sinus ventrad of which the margin is strongly rounded, ventral margin obtuseFig.
1.
— Conocephaliis tnelanorhinus n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
(X li-) angulate.
Tegmina elongate, exceeding the tips of the caudal femora by about the length of the head and pronotum together, narrow, apex narrowly rounded.
Abdomen with the terminal dorsal abdominal segment produced into a pair of spinose processes between which the segment is deeply cleft; supra-anal plate trigonal, produced mesad into a rather long finger-like process ; styles rather short, thick, acute, slightly arcuate; ovipositor slightly shorter than the caudal femora, straight, rather broad and subequal, apex acute; subgenital plate moderately produced, apical margin emarginato-truncate.
Cephalic limbs of medium build.
Caudal femora rather slender, the proximal half moderately inflated, externoventral margin with two to four spines, interno-ventral margin with six to seven spines ; caudal tibise more strongly spined on the dorsal than on the ventral margins ; caudal tarsi quite elongate and slender.
General color apple green approaching oil green in areas on the dorsum of the fastigium and margins of the pronotum, lateral as well as dorsal.
Fastigium marked laterad with maize yellow, ventral aspect of the fastigium black, oil green caudad; eyes ochraceous-buif ; '^ Measurement taken from the interantennal space.
antennae burnt carmine, pale and weak proximad.
R'onotum with the lateral angles marked with maize yellow.
Caudal tibise vinaceous pale on the angles; tarsi of all the limbs with \r\ff the lateral portions dull purplish brown, the median ftl n^ area buff.
Ovipositor ochraceous as is also the abdomen, y V distal two-thirds oil green, touched with brown at the apex, the median suture lined with black for the greater portion of its length.
Fig.
2.
— ConoMcosurcmcnts.
Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), .
35 mm.
'cephalusmeLength of pronotum, S " lanorhinus Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum, .
4.5 '' ii.sp.
Dorsal Length of tegmen, 48 " Length of caudal femur 27 '* Length of ovipositor, 22.8 " viewofhead and pronotum.
(X 2.)
The type of this species is the only specimen seen.
Orohelimum glaberrimum (Burmeister).
This species is represented by seven male individuals taken at five localities: Jacksonville, August 10 and 11, two taken from high bushes in city park; Pablo Beach, August 12, two from wet grassy spots in scrub palmetto barrens ; San Pablo.
August 13, one from undergrowth in pine woods; Gainesville, August 17, one from grassy margin of sinkhole; Cedar Keys, August 15, one from salt marsh.
In size some variation is noticed, chiefly in the length of the tegmina and wings and in the length of the caudal femora.
The tegmen and wing variation is quite considerable, the extremes for the length of the exposed combined tegmina and wings being 27 and 34.5 mm.
Orchelimum nitidum Redtenbacher.i* Two males of this species were taken at Jacksonville, August 11, and Palatka, August 19.
In both cases the specimens were taken in the city.
The absolute identification of Redtenbacher's species is attended with considerable difficulty, as the species here described as 0. molossum is in many respects very closely allied.
The present authors previously confused these two forms and recorded both as 0. nitidum}^ How'^ Attempts to determine material by the presence or absence of spines on the ventral surface of the caudal femora having proved futile, we are compelled to abandon this character, which in our opinion is generally too indi\'idual in its variations to be diagnostic in this genus.
The forms here treated have been recognized chiefly by characters of the genitaha of both sexes, which are more stable and of sufficient diversity to separate the species with the least difficulty.
'5 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, p. 796.
(ThomasAalle, Ga.) iDu; 307 ever, the form of the male cerci is the one character which will enable the student to recognize the two types with certainty and celerity.
Redtenbacher's description says, "Cerci male subacuminati, vix compressi," and this clearly applies to the form for which his name is here used, ().
molossum having the cerci depressed and not even slightly compressed.
The cercus of 0. nitidum is very slightly compressed in the distal half with a slight dorsal keel, and a figure is here given to fix the species with certainty.
Cereal and ovipositor peculiarities are unquestionably among the chief characters to be used in separating the species of Orchelimum.
Measurements of the specimen, of which a cercus is figured, are as follows: Fig.
li.-Orchelimum nitidum R e cite nbacher.
Dorsal \^ew of apex of male abdomen.
(X 4.)
Length of body 22.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 5.8 " Length of tegmen, 23.5 " Length of caudal femur, 20.2 " The range of this species now includes Georgia and Florida.
Orchelimum molossum n. sp.
Tj^pcs : o^ ; Pablo Beach, Duval County, Fla., August 13, 1905.
Q ; Gainesville, Alachua Co., Fla., August 16, 1905.
(Hebard and Rehn.)
Closely allied to 0. nitidum, but differing in the slightly heavier fastigium, the smaller pronotum with narrowt r lateral lobes, the smaller and more delicate tympanum of the male tegmina, the smaller, slightly depressed cerci, which have the tooth about median, and the slightly deeper emargination of the subgenital plate of the male.
Size moderately large (for the germs); form rather slender.
Head rather broad; fastigium moderately broad, slightly elevated and rounded dorso-ventrad.
apex more rounded transversely in the male than in the female, a fine median longitudinal depression present on the apex in both sexes, ventral portion narrowed and in contact with the fastigium of the face; eyes rather large, moderately prominent; antennae extremely long, Pronotum with the dorsum flattened, caudal transverse sulcus impressed; cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate, caudal margin arcuate, lateral angles distinct only on the caudal lobe and there well rounded; lateral Fig.
A.-Orchelirmim molossum n. sp.
Dorsal view of head, pronotum and tympanum of male type.
( X 3.)
• lobe about as deep as long, the ventral margin subrectangulate, elytral sinus shallow and broad, the margin evenly arcuate ventrad of the same, convex callosity well defined in both sexes.
Tegmina elongate, slightly tapering, apex rounded ; tympanum rather light, slightly longer than wide.
Wings projecting beyond the tegmina by less than the length of the head, apex narrowly rectangulate.
Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the male with two median rounded lobes separated by a deep rounded emargination; cerci straight except Fig.
5.
— Orchelimum molosstwi n. sp.
Fig.
6.
— Orchelimum molossum n. sp.
Dorsal \iew of male appendages.
Lateral view of o\'ipositor.
(X 2.)
(X 5).
for a mesad bend at the middle, the proximal half robust, the distal portion tapering, acute, tooth on the internal face on the same plane as the cercus, stout, slightly recurved, acute; subgenital plate of the male ample, scoop-like, reaching about to the teeth of the cerci, distal margin rectangulate-emarginate, provided laterad with distinct but rather short styles.
Supra-anal plate of the female acute-trigonal; ovipositor rather short, falciform, in length slightly shorter than the head and pronotum together, equal in width in the proximal half, tapering in the distal half, apex acute, the margins of the apex wdth slight traces of serrations ; subgenital plate sjiort, buUate, the extreme apex very slightly rectangulate-emarginate.
Cephalic and median limbs moderately robust.
Caudal femora about equal to three-fourths (cJ^) or four-fifths ( 9 ) of the tegminal length, strongly bullate in the proximal half, externo-ventral margin armed with from two to five spines.
General color pale apple green, washed on the dorsum with tawnjochraceous, a weak sub-lyrate pattern on the pronotal disk of the latter color, while the principal vein of the tympanum is also marked with it.
Eyes of the male raw umber, of the female clove brown.
Ovipositor greenish brown, male appendages ochraceous.
Measurements.
c?
9 Length of body, 21.5 mm.
21.8 mm.
Length of pronotum, 5 " 5.6 " Length of tegnien, 24.5 " 25 " Length of caudal femur, 17.6 " 20.8 " Length of ovipositor,^** S " 18 Ventral length.
While this species is closely related to 0. nitidum, it is not possible to refer the specimens here placed under the new form to the older species, and at the same time take proper cognizance of differences in the jrcnitalia.
As far as our available material goes the two forms are perfectly distinct, and for this reason it appears best to regai-d them for the present at least as separate species.
Three males and one female from Florida have been examined in addition to the types.
One male is paratypic with the type of that sex, and the remaining individuals are paratypic with the female (August 16 and 17).
At Pablo Beach the species was found in grass along railroad tracks, and at Gainesville it was taken in fields in the undergi'owth of pine woods around a sink-hole.
The species also ranges into southern Georgia at Thomasville (vide supra).
Such variation as exists in size in the specimens examined is comparatively slight, and in color the chief variation is in the intensity of the paired brown bars on the pronotum.
The latter feature varies from a form with a pair of distinct slightly constricted, sublyrate bars to one in which they are only faintly suggested.
In but one case, however, do they extend upon the metazona.
Experience in the field demonstrated the bulldog-like tenacity with which this species retains its grip when on the defensive, and the specific name has been given for this reason.
In one case its hold was so strong that the head was torn from the body without the jaws relaxing their grip.
Orchelimum fidicinium n. sp.
Types : o ' and ?
; Cedar Keys, Levy County, Fla., August 15, 1905.
(Hebard and Rehn.)
Allied to 0. delicatum and gladiator I^runer from Nebraska and Indiana, but differing from the former in the longer cerci of the male, the shorter subgenital plate of the same sex, and the slightly shorter and slenderer ovipositor.
From gladiator it differs in the much slenderer ovipositor, longer limbs, shorter subgenital plate of the male and the heavier and longer male cerci.
Size small (for the genus) ; form elongate.
Head Mith the fastigium not appreciably elevated above the level of the occiput; fastigium rather long, narrow, subequal, the apex rotundatotruncate when viewed dorsad, moderately rounded when viewed laterad, fastigium of the face in contact with that of the vertex; eyes rather large, somewhat prominent when viewed dorsad ; antennae about three times the length of the body.
Pronotum with the disk but little flattened; cephalic margin slightly emarginato-truncate, caudal margin moder21 310 [June^ ately arciiate, no lateral shoulders present on the prozona, present but rounded on the metazona, transverse sulci moderately distinct ; lateral lobes very slightly longer than deep, the humeral sinus shallow and broad, ventral margin obtuse-angulate, convex callosity moderately distinct.
Tegmina slightly longer than the body, their apices reaching to the genicular extremity of the caudal femora, narrow, apex narrowly rounded; tympanum of the male rather small and weak.
Wings exceeding the closed tegmina by about the length of the head .
Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the male very narrowly divided mesad ; cerci nearly straight, rol^ust in the distal half, apical half tapering, immediate apex blunt, tooth placed inter no ventrad,.
rather long but not stout, recurved, acute; subgenital plate hardly surpassing the base of the cereal tooth, moderately inflated, subcarinate caudo-laterad, caudal short.
Supra-anal plate of Fig.
7.
-OrcheJiwvm fidicinkwi n. sp.
Dorsal view of male type.
( X3.)
margin obtuse-angulate, styles very Fig.
S. — Orchellmum fidicinium n. sp.
Dorsal view of apex of male abdomen.
(X 6.)
Fig.
9.
— OrcheUmum fidicinium n. sp.. Lateral \-iew of ovipositor.
(X 3.).
1007.]
XATI'RAL SCIENCES OF PIIII.
A DKI.IMIIA .
311 the female lanceolate; styles slightly arcuate, tapering; ovipositor slightly less than twice as long as the head and pronotum together^ slightly falcate, moderately broad and subequal in the proximal half,, tapering distad to the acute apex; subgenital plate of the female trigonal, somewhat inflated, the narrow apical portion subtruncate.
Caudal femora consideral)ly inflated proximad, ventral margins unarmed.
General color varying from buff to tawny olive, distinctly greenish in life, the lateral aspects of the head, pronotum and pleura pale olivebuff in the dried specimen.
Eyes broccoli brown; antennae burnt miiber becoming drab distad ; a broad median bar from the fastigium to the caudal section of the pronotal disk burnt umber, broken and irregular in the female; caudal tibia?
with the dorsal face olive.
Measurements.
d 9 Length of body, 18.5 mm.
16 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.8 " 4 " Length of tegmen 20 " 21 " Length of caudal femur, 16 " 16.8 " Length of ovipositor, 10 '* A paratypic series of ten males and nine females have also been examined, as well as a single male taken at Gainesville (August 16; in pine woods).
The series exhibits some slight variation in size and considerable in the intensity of the broad median bar on the head and pronotum.
In several specimens the latter is hardly indicated.
The amount of variation in the shape of the ovipositor is very slight, and practical^ no variation is noticed in the form of the male cerci.
This species was found in the flooded salt marsh among tall grasses.
The individuals displayed great agility in eluding capture, using both their leaping and flying power, tho.^e taken being secured chiefly by beating.
Orchelimum militare n. .^ip.
Types: cJ' and 9 ; Gainesville, Alachua County, Fla., August 17, 1905.
(Hebard and Rehn.)
Allied to 0. delicatmn Bruner and 0. vokmtum McNeill, differing from l)(»th in the very long ovipositor and peculiar cerci.
From ddicatinn it also differs in the larger size and the shorter su])genital plate of the male.
Size medium (for the genus), form moderately slender.
Head with the fastigium very slightly elevated, the fastigium longer than l)road and narrower proximad than distad, apex subtruncate when viewed dorsad, rather narrowly rounded when viewed laterad, the apex sometimes with, a fine impressed medio-longitiidinal hne, fastigium of the face in contact with the fastigium of the vertex; eyes rather large, moderately prominent; antennse at least three and a half times the length of the body.
Pronotum with the disk not strongly flattened ; cephalic margin subtruncate, caudal margin moderately arcuate; lateral shoulders present only on the metazona and there rounded, transverse sulci indicated but not deeply impressed ; lateral lobes about as deep as long, cephalic margin ol)tuse-angulate, ventral margin subrectangulate, humeral sinus shallow and broad, convex callosity elliptical, distinct.
Tegmina exceeding the genicular extremity of the caudal femora by nearly the length of the head, narrow, apex rounded on the costal margin, subtruncate on the sutural margin; tympanum of the male moderately large, slightly longer than the pronotum.
Fig.
10.
— Orchelimum militare n. sp.
Fig.
11.
— Orclielimum militare n. sp.
Dorsal view of apex of male abdoLateral \dew of ovipositor.
(X 2.)
men.
(X 4.)
Wings extending beyond the tegmina by nearly the length of the head.
Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the male narrowly divided for nearly half its length ; cerci elongate wdth a median obtuse angvilation, the proximal half being robust and subcylindrical, the distal half being tapering, slightly falcate and distinctly depressed, the apex rather blunt, tooth on the internal margin mesad, directed strongly proximad, stout at the base, tapering, slightly curved; subgenital plate of the male cymbiform, keeled, hardly reaching to the middle of the cerci, the apical margin subrectangulate emarginate, styles short and tapering.
Ovipositor over twice as long as the head and pronotum together, straight and subequal in the proximal twothirds, tapering and very slightly curved dorsad in the apical third, apex acute and with its margins very faintl}^ crenulate; subgenital plate rather short and broad, bullate, the immediate apex subtruncate.
Caudal femora with the proximal half moderately inflated, in length about equal to two-thirds that of the tegmina, the external face with traces of a loricate pattern, ventral margins unarmed or Avith a single spine.
General color clay-color, distinctly green in life, some traces of the original color rcnuiiiiinsj;; head varying from ochraceous to brick red, particularly along the median area of the face; dorsum of the pronotum and head marked more or less distinctly with a pair of fine ferruginous lines diverging caudad; eyes drab; antenna?
raw umljer finely annulate with Vandyke brown, becoming uniform very dark brown distad.
Measuretnents.
Length of body, 22 mm.
18 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4.6" 4.5" Length of tegmen 25.5 " 25.4 " Length of caudal femur, 17.8 " 17.5 " Length of ovipositor 15.2 " A single paratypic female has been examined in addition to the types.
It is very slightly larger than the female type, but otherwise inseparable.
The three specimens secured were taken from a marsh}' sink-hole in pine woods.
Xiphidion fasciatum De Geer.
A series of twenty-four individuals represent this widely distributed form, taken as follows: Jacksonville, August 11, two males, three females; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, three males, four females; Cedar Keys, August 15, three males, eight females; Fairfax.
Barnwell County, S. C, August 10, one male.
The environments represented are a city lot (Jacksonville), undergrowth in pine woods and sink-hole in the same (Gainesville), and open marsh (Cedar Keys).
Xiphidion nigropleurum Hruner.
Sixteen individuals are referred tentatively to this species, as there exists a possibility that one or more distinct species are included in the Florida material.
The localities represented are: Gainesville, August 16, one female; Pal^lo Beach, August 11, one female; Cedar Keys, August 15, seven males, seven females.
\\lien compared with Nebraska and Indiana males of undoubted nigropleurum the Cedar Keys individuals are as a rule larger; all belong to the brown form described by Blatchley," with the pronotum very dark mesad.
The tegmina are as rule somewhat shorter than in typical nigropleurum males and the cerci are slenderer and slightly more produced, ^'ariability in the divergence of the apices of the ^'' Orth.
nf Iml{nna,p.
376. latter is a very distinct feature, but otherwise the general form of the cercus is much the same in all the seven males.
The Florida females present very puzzling degrees of variation in the curve of the ovipositor.
When compared with two Indiana females of true nigropleurum the ovipositor is seen to be slightly deeper in all the Florida specimens, straight as in the Indiana individuals in one Florida representative, very slightly curved dorsad at the apex in three and gently but appreciably curved in the remaining five.
These types seem to shade one into the other, although the individuals with the ovipositor curved average somewhat larger, one, however, being no larger than in the opposite category.
The tegmina vary from half the abdominal length to equal length, the latter seen only in one specimen.
The variation in the ovipositor is irrespective of locality, both extremes having been taken at Cedar Keys.
Until more evidence is in hand to prove the two extremes distinct, we are under the necessity of considering them purely variations within specific limits, and the same is true with the differences noted between the typical nigropleurum and the Florida forms or variants.
At Gainesville this species was taken in pine woods, and at Cedar Keys in salt marsh grass, where specimens were extremely abundant and although very active easily taken with the net.
The range of this species is here carried south from the Ohio Valley and New York State.
Odontoxiphidium apterum Morse.
A series of 101 specimens represents this very distinct genus and species, taken at the following localities: Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, thirty-five males, thirty-seven females; San Pablo, August 13, one male; Gainesville, August 16, twelve males, twelve females; Cedar Keys, August 15, three males, one female.
Several specimens from each locality except San Pablo are immature, in some cases apparently two stages before the mature condition.
In size there is considerable variation, as previously evidenced ]jy the measurements in the original description, while the color variations are almost wholly in the intensity of the median dark bar and in the extent of pale brown suffusion on the limbs.
A variety of environments are frequented by this species, ranging from dry palmetto scrub and undergrowth in pine woods to grassland, tall fresh marsh grass and salt marsh.
The species was found most plentiful in the low parts of the open palmetto scrub at Pablo Beach.
The insects were noticed to prefer the damp locations, but none were found in true marshlands.
At Gainesville, also, 1907.]
NATL'H.VL 8CIEN-CES OF PITILADELnilA.
315 specimens were abuiulant in the low places in the pine woods where the wire-grass was most luxuriant.
Individuals were usually sufficiently inactive to be caught easily, with or without a net.
The range of this species now extends from Thomasville, Thomas County, and Brunswick, Glynn County, Ga., to Cedar Keys, Levy County, and Sanford, Orange County, Fla. Atlanticus gibbosus ScuiMer.
Four adults, three males and one female, taken at Pablo Beach, August 11 and 14, represent this species.
The individuals collected "svere taken in palmetto scrub and salt marsh and the species was not common.
As the information regarding this species is very meagre, measurements of an individual of each sex are here given.
Pablo Beach, Pablo Beach, Aug. 11,1 90.5.
Aug. 1 1 , 1905 .
& 9 Length of body, 29 mm.
28 mm.
Length of pronotum, 13 " 12.5 " Length of caudal femur, 32.2 " 34.5 " Length of ovipositor, 29.2 " This species possesses greater strength in the jaws than any other North American orthopterous insect known to us.
A single bite can easily pierce the cuticle and cause the blood to flow.
In consequence the field collector quickly acquires a wholesome respect for their defensive a]3ilities.
Individuals showed surprising activity in escaping when alarmed by seeking hiding places under the scrub palmettoes, to which they hurried with seeming ungainliness but nevertheless considerable speed.
GRYLLID^.
Mogoplistes slossoni Scudder.
A single male individual was found August 12, in a bed at the hotel at Pablo Beach where the authors stayed.
The specimen is considerably rubbed and in consequence the silvery scales of the perfect insect are almost entirely gone.
The antennae show no signs of annulations, but the limbs are supplied with imperfect and irregular rings of blackish brown and pale ochre.
The measurements of the specimen are as follows : Length of body, 8 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.8 " Caudal width of ])ronotum, 2 " Length of caudal femur 4 " Length of styles, (k2 " The range of this species now extends from the Biscayne Bay region north to Pablo Beach.
Liphoplus krugii Saussure.
This interesting species is represented by eleven individuals, adults and nymphs, representing two stages.
The localities represented are: Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, two adult males, one immature male, three immature females; San Pablo, August 13, one adult male, two immature females; Gainesville, August 16, one immature male, one adult female.
At Pablo Beach it was taken in grassland, under boards and beaten from weeds; at San Pablo and Gainesville it was found in the undergrowth in pine woods.
The adult male of this species has the pronotum considerably extended over the dorsum of the abdomen as in Cycloptilum and Ectatoderus, but the presence of a tambourine on the cephalic tibiie as well as the divided interantennal process distinguishes Liphoj)his from both of the allied groups.
The measurements of an adult male and female are here given.
Pablo Beach, Gainesville, Fla. Fla. cS" 9 Length of body, 8.6 mm.
8.2 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4.2 " 2.5 " Length of caudal femur, 5.2 " 5.3 " Length of ovipositor, 5.8 " The species is now known to range north into Florida as far as Pablo Beach and San Pablo; Key West, the Bahamas, and Cuba being the only localities from which it has previously been recorded.
Nemobius socius Scudder.
Nine individuals represent this species, which possesses three phases rather similar to those of N. fasciatus.
The localities represented are: Pablo Beach, August 11 and 12, two males, three females; Gainesville, August 16, one female; Bronson, Levy County, August 16, one male; Cedar Keys, August 15, one male, one female.
At Pablo Beach it was found in wet and dry grass, and at Gainesville in the brush in pine woods.
The phases of this species are as follows: A long-winged type with the tegmina reaching nearly to the apex of the abdomen and the wings long caudate; another apparently wingless with the tegmina similar to the first form described; a third wingless and with the tegmina hardly reaching caudad of the middle of the abdomen.
Each of these phases is represented by three individuals in the series before us, and, possibly by coincidence, all the three with the short tegmina are from the CJulf coast or drainage, the previously recorded specimens of this phase also l)eing from that coast at Tampa.
'** However, one of the longwinged type is from lironson, Levy County, not far from the Gulf ,while both types ilescribed first are from Pablo Beach.
Some specimens are decidedly more l)lackish than others, and color pattern visible in the more Ijrownish specimens is obliterated in theblackish individuals.
This species is known to range from Georgia south to Charlotte IIai1)()r, Fla., and west to the Gulf coast of Texas.
Nemobius ambitiosus Scmlder.
This sjiecies, probably the most attractive of our forms of the genus, is represented by a series of thirty-five individuals from the following localities: Pablo Beach, A\igust 12, one immature female; San Pablo, August 13, one female; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, seventeen males, sixteen females.
At San Pablo and Gainesville the undergrowth in pine woods was its favorite habitat, while at Pablo Beach it was found in palmetto scrub.
A very perceptible amount of variation in the shade of the base color of the tegmina and of the cephalic markings is noticeable, some individuals having these parts more brownish than others.
The yellow line bordering the eye caudo-laterad is also absent or faint in several specimens, the same being true of the medio-longitudinal line on the external face of the caudal femora.
In general size there is considerable variation, but the tegmina appear to be of a comparatively uniform length.
This species ranges from southern Georgia (Thomasville) to Miami, D'ade County, Fla.
The localities in addition to the above from which it has been recorded, all in Florida, are Leon County, Fort Reed and Sanford, Orange County; Jacksonville, Duval County; Ormond, \'olusia County; Tampa, Hillsboro County; Charlotte Harbor and Lidian River.
Gryllus rubens Scudder.
The localities at which this species was taken are Jacksonville, August 10, one male; Pablo Beach, August 13, one female; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, two males, one nymph.
At Gainesville both the pine woods undergrowth and open field were the situations in which specimens were taken; at Jacksonville a city park, and at Pablo Beach grassland.
'* Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, p. 50.
(Ecanthus quadripunctatus Beutenmuller.
A male from Cedar Kej^s, August 15, and a female from Pablo Beach, August 13, represent this species.
Both individuals were swept from o;rass.
Anaxipha exigua (Say).
A single male of this species was taken at Gainesville, August 16, from the wire-grass in pine woods, in company with Falcicida.
In size it agrees with Pennsylvania and Delaware males.
Falcicula liebardi Rehn.
This sprightly little cricket was taken at but one locality, Gainesville, August 16.
Here it was abundant in the wire-grass in long-leaf pine woods, ai^parently, however, quite local, and very elusive when located on account of its very protective coloration.
As Gainesville was the only locality aside from San Pablo which is in any way similar to the type locality of the species, the lack of suitable environment was no ■doubt the reason it was not observed elsewhere.
At San Pablo, our stay was too limited to be a fair test of the locality.
The series captured comprises ten males, thirteen females and one nymph.
The range of this species in the southeastern States is from Thomasville, Thomas County, Ga., to Gainesville, Alachua County, Fla. Hapithus quadratus Scudder.
A single male of this species was taken at Pablo Beach, August 11.
When compared with males of H. agitator from New Jersey and Penns^dvania, the Florida form is seen to be larger with distinctly longer caudal limbs, the mediastine vein of the tegmen also having more numerous and more regular rami.^^ Measurements of quadratus and agitator are as follows : agitator quadrat IXLS Riverton, Tinicum, Pablo Beach, Miami, N.J. Pa. Fla. Fla. c?
6" 9 Length of body, 9.8 mm.
10 mm.
9.5 mm.
14.5 mm, Length of pronotum, .
1.5 " l.S " 2 " 2.5 " Length of tegmen, .
5.5 " 5.6 " 6.5 " 9 '' Length of caudal femur.
7.5 " 7.5 " 9.8 " 11.1 " Length of ovipositor, .
7.2 " 9.6 " Hapithus brevipennis Saussure.
A series of four adult males and five immature individuals represent this species, the localities being Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, two " Vide Rehn and Hebard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, p. 52.
H»()7.]
XATL'HAL SCIENX'ES OF I'HILADELl'HIA.
319 ailult.s aiul two nymphs; San Pablo, August 13, one adult; Gainesville, August 16. one ailult and two nymphs, and Cedar Keys, August 15, onenym{>h.
At Gainesville and San Pablo it was found in the undergrowth in pine wooils, at I'ablo Beach in palmetto scrub and along a railroad embankment, and at Cedar Keys in salt marsh.
The range of this species now extends from Louisiana to Georgia, south to I'ablo Beach and Cedar Keys, Fla.
THE EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGTJR: A STUDY OF THE INFLUENCE OF YOLK ON DEVELOPMENT.
BY EDWIN G. COXKLIN, PROFESSOR OF ZOOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.
I.
Introduction.
1.
GENERAL.
It is generally believed that the accumulation of yolk in the eggs of certain animals has greatly modified their original manner of development.
For example, selachians, reptiles and birds are probably derived from animals in which the eggs contained much less yolk than at present in these classes, and in which the development was different in many respects from that which now obtains among these forms.
The effect of the loss of yolk upon development has been studied experimentally by Morgan (1S93), but the influence of an increase in the amount of yolk, while the protoplasmic portion of the egg remains the same, has not been studied experimentally, and may perhaps lie beyond the test of experiment.^ Such experiments, however, nature has performed in several different phyla of animals, but nowhere are natural conditions more favorable for a study of the influence of yolk on development than among the mollusks.
Brooks (1S79) long ago called attention to this fact, though it has not been reinvestigated in the light of the modern cellular study of development.
The comparison of the development of large eggs with that of small ones, with especial reference to the organization of the egg and the history of the cleavage cells, should be of considerable general interest.
Does a great accumulation of yolk change the localization of morphogenetic processes and substances in the egg?
Does it alter the developmental history and destiny of the blastomeres?
Is the yolk itself localized in any definite germinal region of the egg?
In what manner does a great mass of yolk alter the gastrulation and later embryonic development?
These are questions upon which a detailed comparison ' The fusion of different eggs to form giants, such as occurs abnormally in certain cases, is not a case in point, since the relative amount of yolk and protoplasm remains the same in the fused eggs as in the single ones.
of the normal dcvclopinent of large and of small eggs might be expected to shed some light.
Undoubtedly experiments, if they could be successfully performed, would be of great value in answering these questions, but in the case of the gasteropods which I have studied I have not found it possible to test these questions experimentally.
The development of gasteropods is extraordinarily varied in respect to the manner of nourishing the embryo and larva.
In some cases, and these pi-csumably the more primitive, the eggs are small and contain little yolk and the free swimming larva) (veligers) are set free at an early age to shift for themselves {e.g., Crepidula plana, Patella, Acma:a, etc.).
In others the eggs contain a larger quantity of yolk and the free-swimming life is correspondingly reduced {e.g., Crepidula jornicata, Illyonassa, etc.).
In still others the eggs contain a yet greater quantity of yolk and the veliger stage is passed entirely within the egg capsules, the young escaping in practically an adult condition {e.g., Crepidula convexa and adunca, Urosalpinx, Sycotypus, Fid gur, etc.).
A most curious and interesting method by which nutriment is supplied to the embryo is found in those gasteropods in which a large number of relatively small eggs is laid, only a few of which develop, the others being eaten as food by the developing embryos {e.g.. Purpura, Buccinum, Fasciolaria, Neritina, etc.).
For the purposes of the present study the only instances which we shall consider are those in which the food for the developing embryos is contained within the egg in the form of j^olk.
The early development of a considerable number of gasteropods is now well known, but most of these belong to that group having relatively small eggs.
It has seemed to me worth while to compare with these the development of the largest gasteropod egg of which I have any knowledge, viz., that of Fulgur carica.
The eggs of this species are about one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter; those of a closely allied form, Sycotypus canalliculaius, are about one-twenty-fifth of an inch in diameter.
The eggs of Fulgur are about thirteen times the diameter and about 2,200 times the volume of the eggs of Crepidula plana, with which I shall particularly compare them.
I have also studied several other species in which the eggs are intermediate in size between these two extremes, as shown by the following table: Fulgur carica, 1,700 //in diameter.
Sycotypus canalliculatus, 1,000 /jl " Crepidula adunca.
.
: 410 ij. "
" convexa, 280 ,« " " fornicata 182 /« " plana, 136 ,« " The great difference in the sizes of these eggs is not due to a proportionate difference in all their constituents, viz., protoplasm as well as yolk, but almost entirely to the varying amovmts of 3^olk which they contain, and this fact suggests the possibility of examining the influence of yolk upon development by comparing the development of one of the largest gasteropod eggs with one of the smallest.
A paper on the embryology of Fulgur was published by McMurrich (1886) more than twenty years ago.
This paper deals in a general way with the development of this genus, questions of cell lineage and egg organization being at that time almost unknown.
Further reference to McMurrich's work will be made throughout the course of this paper.
A subsequent paper by the same author (1896) deals with the yolk lobe and centrosome of Fulgur.
Some features in the development of this form were also considered by me (1897) in a paper dealing more particularly with Crcpidula.
Other than this the development of Fulgur has not been made the subject of any detailed study.
2.
BREEDING HABITS.
For the sake of completeness I shall here mention some observations on the breeding habits of Fulgur and Sycotypus.
In both of these forms the eggs are laid in peculiar disk-shaped or lenticular capsules w-hich are attached in a series along a central cord.
With the exception of the first few capsules formed, wliich are small and usually contain no eggs, each capsule contains from ten to twenty eggs embedded in a gelatinous substance which fills the capsules.
The method of forming the peculiar string of capsules characteristic of these genera is sufficiently interesting to merit a brief description.
During the process of egg-laying, the foot of the female is contracted and partially withdrawn within the shell.
A mucous-like secretion is then poured out from the nidamental organ through the folds of the partially contracted foot, and this secretion is applied to some solid object to which it adheres, or it is merely buried in the sand.
In the case of Fulgur this first formed portion of the "string" is liiu'ied deeply in the sand ; in certain specimens of Sycotypus which 1 kept in a wooden car, or float, the egg string was attached to the boards of the car.
The first formed capsules on the string are small, far apart and contain no eggs.
Later formed capsules increase in size and in the number of eggs contained in each, and successive caijsulcs lie closer together on the string.
During the process of laying the female is cjuiescent, and is usually bmied beneath the surface of the sand, only the siphon protruding.
The eggs, surroimded by the albimien and the secretion which forms the capsules, are poured out of the ovuluet into a small cavity in the folded foot.
Here the capsule-forming material conies into contact with the sea water and hardens, after which the capsule is releasetl from the foot and another is formed.
The average length of time taken by Sycoti/piis in forming a capsule is about three hours, and as the ''egg string" may contain as many as seventy capsules, the egg laying may cover a period of several da^'s.
The eggs of Fidgur are laid at Beaufort, N. C, during the months of May and June principally.Sycotypus lays its eggs at Woods Hole late in August or early in September.
The rate of development in these gasteroi)ods is very slow.
I can give no definite figures as to the length of the period of development, since the eggs which have been brought into the laboratory do not long continue to develop normally, but from such evidence as I have been able to gather I conclude that the development within the capsules occupies several months; indeed I have frequently found egg strings in midwinter with partially developed embryos, indicating that the eggs which are laid in the fall may not hatch until the following spring.
As might be expected where eggs are so greatly laden with yolk, the entire embryonic and larval development is passed within the egg capsules and the young hatch in practicall}' an adult condition.
3.
METHODS AND MATERIAL.
The eggs of Fidgur and Sycotypus are very soft and are difficult topreserve.
When removed from the \-ery thick jelly in which they are enclosed within the capsules they usually flatten into thin disks under their own weight, or become otherwise distorted.
There are no eo"membranes except those formed by the surrounding gelatinous substance, and the thin pellicle of protoplasm which surrounds the egg is too w^eak to preserve the spherical shape or even to retain the yolk unless the eggs are floating in water or jelly.
Since the jelly must in most cases be removed before the fixation of the eggs, special means must be employed to prevent them from bursting or becoming distorted.
]\Iany rapid fixing fluids, such as hot sublimate, alcohol and alcohol-acetic mixtures, cause the eggs to crack open, or even to split into fragments after they have been apparently well fixed.
After experimenting with many fixing fluids, the only successful method of preservation which I have found, is to open one side of the capsule 1 wish here to acki^nvledgc my indebtedness to Hon.
George ^I.
Bowers U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries, and to Dr. Caswell Grave, Director of the Fisheries Station at Beaufort, for the many courtesies extended to me while L was at the Beaufort Station.
and place the capsule containing the eggs in the jelly in 20 per cent, formalin for an hour or two, and then shake the eggs out of the jelly into a mixture of 20 per cent, formalin and 70 per cent, alcohol, equal parts, afterwards transferring them to 80 per cent, alcohol.
Unfortunately this method leaves shreds of the jelly adhering to the eggs, and as these shreds stain intensely they interfere with the study of the eggs, which are to be stained and mounted entire.
To preserve eggs entirely free from the jelly I have found it advisable to slit open the jelly and allow the eggs to drop out into a tall jar of 20 per cent, formalin, or into a mixtiu-e of pure formalin (40 per cent.)
and a saturated solution of corrosive sublimate, equal parts.
If the jar is quite tall (at least eighteen inches) the eggs may be sufficiently hardened before they reach the bottom to preserve their spherical shape, especially if there is a layer of absorbent cotton at the bottom of the jar.
After a preliminary hardening in this fluid the eggs may be transferred to other fixing fluids or to alcohol.
These eggs were then stained in dilute Delafield's hsematoxylin, and were mounted entire in the manner described by me (1897, 1902) for other kinds of eggs.
II.
Cleavage.
1: THE UNSEGMENTED EGG.
I have made no attempt to study the phenomena of maturation and fertilization in these eggs since they are particularly unfavorable for such work, owing to the difficulties of fixation, already referred to, and to the great quantity of yolk, which make the eggs difficult to section.
The most striking feature of the unsegmented egg is the extremely small ciuantity of the nuclear and cytoplasmic material as contrasted with the yolk.
The area of cytoplasm and the nuclear spindle shown in Plate XXIII, fig.
1, are but little larger than in the egg of Crepidida, though the entire egg of Fulgur is about 2,000 times the volume of the egg of Crepidula.
The great increase in the size of the egg of Fulgur as compared with that of Crepidula is due almost exclusively to the '.increased quantity of the yolk.
2.
FIRST AND SECOND CLEAVAGES.
It is one of the surprises connected with the development of this .egg that although the yolk is so abundant the cleavage is yet holoblastic.
When this work was first begun I had thought that the -cleavage in this egg, which is larger than the eggs of many cephalopods, might show some resemblances to the meroblastic cleavage of the ^cephalopod egg.
However, this is not the case, for the cleavages, at li)07.]
XATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'IIIA.
325 least as far as the oG-cell stage, arc idciitic-ally like those of Crcpidula save for the enormous size of the macroiiicros.
In the positions of the mitotic spindles, the direction and rhythm of division, and the shapes, relative sizes and ninnber of the micromeres these two genera are practically identical.
In the later development of Fw/^ur the yolk cells do not divide, although their nuclei do, and this may be an approach to the condition found in meroblastic eggs.
Many characteristic differences appear l)etween Fidgur and Crepichda in the later cleavages, and this fact is another evidence in favor of the view, which I have maintained elsewhere (Conklin, 1897, 1898), that the form of the early cleavage is more constant than that of the later cleavage; indeed the early cleavage pattern may be reckoned as one of the most conservati^'e features in the development of any gasteropod.
The first cleavage divides the egg into two equal cells, one of \vhich forms the anterior half of the future animal, the other the posterior half (fig.
2).
At the close of this cleavage the nuclei and cytoplasmic areas rotate first in a dexiotropic and then in a laeotropic direction, as in Crepidida, showing that the first cleavage is spiral in character.
During the first cleavage and again during the second a small lobe is formed at the vegetal pole, which again fuses with one of the macromeres at the close of the cleavage.
This is the yolk lobe which has been observed in so many different animals.
In forms in which the first two cleavages are equal this lobe is small, e.g., in Crepidida it is quite inconspicuous, in Fidgur it is larger but still not more than onesixth the diameter of the macromere; in forms in which the first two cleavages are unequal this lobe may be larger than the macromeres, e.g., Urosalpin.v.
McMurrich mistook this lobe for the polar body, but afterwards (1896) corrected this mistake.
The second cleavage is at right angles to the first and divides the egg into right and left hah'es.
It is not possible to affirm that the median plane of the future animal coincides precisely with the second cleavage plane, but it is evident that the two are very nearly, if not exactly, coincident.
In this respect, as also in the laeotropic position of the spindles and the relative positions of the daughter nuclei and spheres, this cleavage is similar to the corresponding one of Crcpidula.
It is a surprising fact that a mitotic figure so small as that shown in fig.
1 can bring about the division of so large a cell.
It does not seem possible that the mechanical influence of the amphiaster could cause so large a result, except as it may serve as a stimulus to other forces.
It is doubtful too whether cytojilasmic movements of a vortical nature are sufficient to explain the division of a cell body in which there is so 22 small an amount of cytoplasm and so large a quantity of j'^olk.
The superficial layer of C3^toplasm is so thin and weak that at first thought it would seem incapable of constricting and ultimately dividing this great cell.
But although the factors named seem inadequate to produce so large a result it must be borne in mind that the yolk is relatively soft, almost fluid, and that a considerable ciuantity of cytoplasm is distributed through the yolk at this stage; furthermore the rate of division is extremely slow, many hours being necessary for the completion of each of the first two cleavages.
These are the only equal divisions of the entire yolk which I have seen.
Although the four macromeres give rise to many cells in the course of development they still constitute the chief volume of the embryo as late as the veliger stage (pi.
XXVIII, fig.
31), thus showing that the yolk content of these cells has remained practically as in the 4-cell stage.
3.
SEGREGATION OF THE GER.MINAL liAYERS.
The third cleavage is very unequal and separates the first quartet of micromeres from the macromeres in a dexiotropic direction (pL XXIII, fig.
4); these cells come to lie in the furrows between the macromeres, and their shape is consequently like the corresponding cells in Crepidula.
The fourth cleavage (fig.
4) separates the second quartet of micromeres from the macromeres in a liieotropic direction.
In anticipation of this cleavage the nuclei with the surrounding cytoplasm rotate Iseotropically until they lie in the upper left-hand corner of each cell, then the mitotic figures appear and the cleavage takes place precisely as in Crepidula and other gasteropods.
The first quartet cells then divide Iseotropically, giving off at their peripheral borders the "turret cells," and a little later the macromeres again divide in a dexiotropic direction, giving rise to the third cjuartet (fig.
5).
Simultaneously the cells of the second quartet divide dexiotropically.
These divisions are shown in figs.
5 and 6.
As a result of these divisions twenty micromeres are formed, of which eight belong to the first quartet, eight to the second and four to the third (fig.
6).
The entire ectoderm comes from these twenty cells.
The micromeres are composed almost entirely of cytoplasm and are relatively free from yolk; in the macromeres the cytoplasmic areas surrounding the nuclei lie at the periphery of the cap of micromeres.
The visible quantity of the cytoplasm has increased very considerably since the beginning of cleavage, as is readily seen by comparing figs.
1 and 6.
This is probably due to the segregation of cytoplasm, originally (listri))uted through the yolk, into the micromeres and cytoplasmic areas of the macronieres, rather than to the conversion of yolk into cytoplasm, since the yolk becomes less fluid and more firm during this: period .
In Fulgur and Sycotypus, as in every other gasteropod so far studied, there are only three quartets of ectomeres.
This is especially interesting in \ic\v of the enormous size of this egg, where we might expect, if anywhere, to find a much larger number of micromeres formed.
.McMurrich supposed that a large number of micromeres were budded off from the macronieres in Fulgur, and that the number of such micromeres varied with the size of the egg.
Viguier (189S) and Fujita (1895) also reached the same conchision, maintaining that the number of c^uartets formed in Tethys and Siphonaria is greater than three.
This view is in my opinion wholly without foundation.
Whether the egg be large or small three cjuartcts of ectomeres are formed, no more and no less, and by the subdivision of the cells of these quartets all the ectoderm of the embryo is formed.
In the cases cited by Yiguier and Fujita it can readily be seen, from their own figures, that they have mistaken the subdivision of certain quartet cells for the formation of new quartets from the macronieres.
Since there are only three quartets of micromeres in Fulgur, and since these cells nuist overgrow the enormous yolk, it would seem reasonable to expect that the rate of subdivision of these quartets would be accelerated, as compared with forms in which the yolk is small.
However this is not the case; the first quartet divides about the time of the formation of the second quartet, and the latter divides coincidently with the formation of the third quartet, just as in Crepidula.
In much later stages the micromeres do divide more rapidly, but the early subdivisions of the three quartets is not more rapid in the case of this largest of gasteropod eggs than in the case of the smallest.
In every respect except the size of the macromeres, the early cleavage of Fulgur is almost identically like that of Crepidula or any other prosobranch.
In the number, position, shapes and relative sizes of the micromeres and in the positions and sizes of the nuclei and spheres there is the closest similarity between the largest and smallest of gasteropod eggs.
The next division is a highly characteristic one for annelids and mollusks.
viz.. the formation of the first member of the fourth ([uartet, 4/-/, by la>otropic cleavage of the left posterior macromere.
After its formation it moves over into the furrow between macromeres D and C, as shown in pi.
XXIV, fig.
8.
This cell, 4c?, is formed in advance of the other members of the fourth riuartet and it contains a considerable quantity of 3'olk.
In all of these regards it resembles the corresponding cell in all annelids and mollusks, with the exception of the cephalopods, in which the cell-lineage has been studied.
But the feature of particular interest in this cell is its destin}^ rather than its origin.
In all annelids and mollusks, so far as known, the anterior portion of this cell gives rise to most of the mesoderm, while from its posterior portion the terminal part of the alimentary canal arises.
This cell is therefore known as the mesentoblast.
The history of this cell in Fulgur conforms entirely to what we know of it in other forms, as will appear later.
With the formation of the mesentoblast the segregation of the substances of the different germinal layers is nearly completed.
I have not observed that the sul^stances composing the mesentoblast differ visibly from those of the ectoblasts and entoblasts, except in the quantity of j^olk which these different cells contain.
But in Limncca, Physa and Planorhis I have been able to distinguish the substance of the ectomeres from that of the mesomeres and entomeres before the first cleavage of the egg.
In these fresh-water snails, therefore, there is a definite localization of the substances of the different germinal layers, and I have elsewhere shown reason for believing that it is the fact of this localization which determines that the ectoblast shall be separated in three quartets, and that the mesoblast shall arise from one cell of the fourth c[uartet.
Since the segregation of the germinal layers occurs in exactly the same Avay in Fulgur as in these other gasteropods, it seems probable that there is here also the same type of localization of the germinal substances of the egg, and that the enormous accumulation of yolk in this egg has not altered in any fundamental way the localization of its various substances.
The other members of the fourth quartet, 4A, 45 and 4C, are not formed until the 50-cell stage (fig.
9).
They are much larger than the cell 4(i and contain a much greater quantity of yolk.
Because of their great size I sliall speak of them as the "secondary macromeres."
These cells are purely entoblastic in character and give rise to a portion of the alimentary canal.
In every one of these details they closely resemble the corresponding cells of Crepidula.
4.
FURTHER HISTORY OF THE ECTOMERES.
The further history of the three c^uartets of ectomeres may now be followed through the development up to the time when they give rise to the first recognizable organs.
About the time of the formation of the cell M all of the twenty micromeres divide so that forty micro1007.]
NATrKAL SCIENCES OF rilTLADEEnilA.
329 lucres arc formed, as shown in fig.
S (in this fiiiurc all the niicronieres have divided or arc tlividing except the two posterior turret cells, which divid(> a little later, fig.
0).
The directions of these divisions and the relative sizes of the daughter cells is the same as in Crepidula, and the time at which the divisions occur is also the same, except that the turret cells divide earlier in Fulgur than in Crepidula.
The latest stage to which I have been able to trace with certainty the lineage of every cell is shown in fig.
9.
At this stage there are present the following cells: Ectomeres -iMesentomeres Entomeres 7 Total 55 Fig.
10 shows si)indlcs in two cells of the second quartet, and when the divisions here indicated are completed in the four c[uadrants the number of cells of known lineage is raised to 59.
As a result of this work on the early cleavage it may be affirmed with confidence that in Fulgur the lineage of every cell up to about the 60-cell stage is itlentically like that of Crepidula.
a.
The First Quartet.
— Fctodermal Cross.
— In Crepidula and many other prosobranchs one of the most striking appearances in the early history of the ectomeres is the formation of the so-caUed ''ectodermal cross."
This cross is composed of all the cells of the first quartet, except the turret cells, and of four cells of the second quartet, one of which forms the tip or terminal cell of each arm of the cross.
The center of the cross lies exactly at the animal pole, and one of the four arms is anterior, one posterior, one right, and one left.
This ectodermal cross, composed of exactly the same cells as in Crepidula, is present in Fulgur also (fig.
9 et seq.).
It is not, however, so distinctly marked ofT from the other micromeres as in Crepidula, and it is therefore much more difficult to trace its subsequent history.
In pis.
XXIV, XXV, figs.
8-16, the outlines of the cross are shown in heavy lines, the center of the cross is marked by a short cross line, and the tip of each arm is lightly stippled.
In fig.
8 the cross consists of three cells in each quadrant, an "apical," a "basal" and a "tip" cell (the anterior tip cell is not yet formed).
In fig.
9 the basal cells in the right and left arms have divided, and in fig.
10 the basal cell of the anterior arm has also divided.
There are at this stage four apical cells and three cells in each arm of the cross, except the posterior one which contains but two.
Later, as shown in fig.
11, the basal cell in the posterior arm also divides and at this stage the cross consists of sixteen cells.
Still later the apical cells bud off small cells between the bases of the arms, the ''rosette" cells of Nereis and Crepidula (fig.
12).
In every one of these details of cleavage the history of the cross in Fulgur is like that in Crepidula.
The latest stage in which I have Ijeen able to identify all the cells of the cross is one slightly later than the one shown in fig.
12.
At this stage the cross consists of the following cells: Apicals 4 Rosettes 4 Basals 7 Middles 7 Terminals 4 Total 26 In later stages the entire cross cannot be recognized ^^•ith certainty.
In figs.
13-16 the center of the cross, where the apical cells meet, can be located, and the terminal cells may be seen more or less clearly, but the other cells cannot always be surely identified.
In fig.
13 the arms of the cross can be plainly seen, each consisting of four cells in a single linear series, as well as the four derivatives of the turret cells which lie between the arms of the cross, but the apical and rosette cells cannot be identified.
In fig.
14 the cross is scarcely apparent at all, and no part of it can be identified with certainty.
In fig.
15 a cross is shown with four cells in a series in each arm, just as in fig.
13.
Fig.
16 shows a central plate of cells surrounded by heavy lines w^hich probably represents the cross; the center of the apical cells may be recognized, more or less doubtfully, at the place marked bj^ the cross line, and the terminal cells are indicated by the stipples.
Midway between the terminal cells on each side of the plate is a group of four cells, also enclosed in heavy lines, Avhich are the derivatives of the turret cells.
There are thirty-six cells in the cross in this latest stage in which it is recognizable, eight of which are derived from the second quartet.
Deducting these second quartet cells and including the turret cells, we find that there are forty-four cells of the first quartet shown in pi.
XXV, fig.
16.
In Crepidida seven large cells of the anterior arm of the cross form a peculiar "apical cell plate," while a number of large ciliated cells derived from the posterior arm and the posterior turret cells form a large "posterior cell plate," which becomes the head vesicle of the larva.
In Fulgur none of these structures are visible at any time, and although the cross may be recognized clearly enough in its earlier stages, it is f[uito ovidcnt tliat it is not so definite' a landmark here as in Crepidula, where its cells may be identified with great certainty iij) to a stage where it consists of sixty-six cells.
The tvn-ret cells in Crepidula grow to an enormous size and remain undivided up to a stage with more than 100 cells; in FuUjur they tlo not become larger than the other cells of the first quartet, and they divide twice before the lOO-cell stage, as shown in figs.
13 and 16. h. Second and Third (Juartets of Ectomeres.
— As far as I have been able to follow the lineage of these cells in Fidgur, it coincides precisely with that of the same quartets in Crepidula.
The first subdivision of the second quartet in Fulgur is shown in fig.
7 ; the first division of the third quartet and the second of the second cjuartet in figs.
8, 9 and 10.
As a result of the divisions indicated in these figures two cells of the third quartet and four of the second are formed in each c[uadrant of the egg.
By the divisions indicated in fig.
10 one additional second civiartet cell is formed in each quadrant, and by the spindles shown in fig.
12 still another cell is formed, making six second ciuartet cells in each quadrant of the egg shown in fig.
12. , All the third quartet cells then divide, as indicated by the spindles in two of the cells in fig.
11, thus giving rise to four third quartet cells in each quadrant.
In figs.
12-16 there are six cells of the second quartet and four of the third in each quadrant.
Every one of these ten cells has its homologue in the corresponding stages of the egg of Crepidida.
This is as far as I have traced the lineage of all the cells of the second and third quartets, though individual cells of these quartets may be recognized in later stages (fig.
17).
These cells of the second and third quartets are in general larger than those of the first quartet, which they completely surround.
The third quartet cells are especially large, and in some cases (figs.
13, 15, 16) are quite as large as the derivatives of 4d.
In the stage shown in fig.
16 there are eighty-eight ectomeres as follows : First quartet cells 44 Second cjuartet cells 28 Third ciuartet cells 16 Total 88 5.
FURTHER HISTORY OF THE MESEXTOMERES.
The cell 4f/, formed at the 24-cell stage by la^otropic division of the macromere D, undergoes dexiotropic cleavage into two equal cells, 4d^ and 4d(fig.
9).
At first these two cells lie to the left of the median plane, but they later shift position so that the plane of division between them comes to coincide with the plane of bilateral symmetry.
The next division of these cells separates an anterior protoplasmic portion from a posterior yolk-laden one (fig.
9), and this process is repeated at a slightly later stage (fig.
12), thus giving rise to six cells derived from the cell 4rf, three on each side of the median plane.
Of these cells the two anterior ones on each side are small protoplasmic cells which lie wholly under the layer of ectodermal cells; these cells give rise to the mesoblastic band of each side.
The posterior cells are nmch larger and contain a consideral^le quantity of yolk; they are only partially covered by the cap of ectodermal cells (fig.
12); they ultimately give rise to the terminal portion of the intestine.
I have not followed in detail the cell lineage of these cells in later stages, owing in part to the fact that they lie close under the thin layer of ectoderm, and it is frequently difficult to distinguish one from the other in surface views.
However it is sufficiently evident that these cells show fundamental resemblances in origin, history and destin}^ to the mesentoblast cells of Crepidula ^nd other gasteropods.
The "mesoblastic bands" of Fulgur do not present a single series of cells, as in some annelids and mollusks, but rather a broad, irregular l^and of cells which has the general form of the letter Y.
The stem of the Y lies in the median plane behind the area of the shell gland, while its two branches diverge on each side of this structure (figs.
19-24).
Some distance in front of the anterior ends of these bands a few cells appear beneath the ectoderm, which are probablj^ the homologues of the "larval mesoderm" of other forms (figs.
19-22).
They are in close relation to the ectoderm cells which give rise to the cerebral ganglia.
I have not followed these "larval mesoderm" cells imtil they give rise to mesodermal structures, but have classed them as mesoderm because they lie beneath the surface and resemble in appearance the cells of the mesodermal bands.
6.
THE ENTOMERES.
Up to a stage when there are approximately fifty cells in the entire embryo the entomeres consist of the four macromeres only.
These macromeres are all of about the same size, and they contain an enormous quantity of yolk as compared with the amount of protoplasm.
Each macromere contains an area of cytoplasm relatively free from j^olk, in which lie the nucleus and sphere.
These cytoplasmic areas lie as near as possible to the animal pole and to the free surface of the cell ; with the extension of the cap of ectomeres these cytoplasmic areas with l!H)7.J NATIKAL SCIIONCES OF I'lII LADKLI'HIA.
333 their enclosed nuclei antl spheres are not ()\er<iro\vn l)y the ectonieres, but they move out over the yolk at the margin of tiie ectodermal cap, and this position they retain until the blastoderm has overgrown much of the yolk (pi.
XXVII, fig.
26).
At a stage of about fifty cells, the macromcres .1, B, and C divide in a la'otropic direction, giving rise to the remaining members of the fourth quartet, 4.1.4/?
and 4C(fig.
9).
These cells are very large and full of yolk, and for these reasons I have called them "secondary macromeres."
The}^ come tQ lie in the furrows 1)etwcen the macromeres, and in this position they are partly overgrown by the advancing ectoderm and partly shoved before it.
They serve as an excellent means of orienting the egg and embryo, since they are found at the right, left and anterior poles only, the posterior pole being occupied by the derivatives of the much smaller mesentoblast cell, id.
The secondary macromeres are purely endodermal in character.
Although their nuclei subdivide (pis.
XXV, figs.
17, 18, et seq.
), their cell bodies usually remain undivided until the closure of the blastopore (pi.
XX^TII, fig.
31).
Throughout all of this period the entomeres consist of the four macromeres and of these three second ar,y macromeres.
Even as late as the gastrula stage, shown in fig.
31, these are the only entoderm cells present except those derived from the cell 4d, which give rise to the terminal portion of the intestine {In., figs.
29-31).
In Crepidula a fifth cjuartet of cells, which are purely entodermal in character, is formed from tlie macromeres about the time of the closure of the blastopore; and at the same time the cells 4A, 4B and 4C divide.
These divisions have not been observed in Fidgur, but, with these exceptions, the origin, history and destiny of the entomeres of Fidgur are almost precisely like those of Crcpidida.
The four primary macromeres are similar in all regards, save only in bulk ; the secondary macromeres arise at the same cell stage and l^ehave in the same manner in these two genera.
In Crepidula, as in Fidgur, these seven cells, together with the entoblastic derivatives of tlie cell 4d, constitute for a long period the whole of the entoblast.
With the stage represented by fig.
17, in which there are about 121 cells, the ectomeres become so numerous that their lineage cannot readily be traced.
At a slightly later stage, regions of the blastoderm begin to differentiate into characteristic structures.
We shall therefore consider this stage as the close of the cleavage and the beginning of the period of organ formation.
In conclusion we find that the cleavage of Fidgur resembles that of Crepidula in almost every detail.
Such slight differences as do exist, as, for example, in the relative development of the "cross" in the two forms, are only such as frequently exist between other genera in which the eggs are about equal in size.
In short the enormous size of the Fulgur egg, which has so greatly altered the relative proportions of cytoplasm and yolk, and of micromeres and macromeres, has not modified in the least the pattern of the cleavage.
It has not modified the localization in the egg and the segregation in the cleavage of the substances of the germinal layers.
In all of these respects the egg of Fulgur is tj'pically like that of other gasteropods, and it shows no approach whatever to the condition found in the eggs of cephalopods.
7.
RELATIVE SIZES OF NUCLEI AND CELLS.
The great quantity of yolk in the egg of Fulgur introduces some interesting cytological conditions.
I have already called attention (p. 325) to the extremely small nuclear sjiindle in the first cleavage, and to the problem of how this little spindle and the small amount of cytoplasm around it can bring about the division of so great a cell body.
Another, though related, problem is found in the relative sizes of the nucleus and cell body at different periods of the cleavage.
In all the early cleavages the nuclei and spindles are very small, even in the macromeres (figs.
1-6).
Indeed the nuclei and spindles in the macromeres are not larger than those in the micromeres during the formation of the three quartets.
After the formation of the third quartet (fig.
7) there is a relatively long resting period for all of the macromeres except D, consequently the nuclei in A, B, and C, fig.
8, have grown to nearly double the diameter of those in fig.
7.
The macromere D divides before its nucleus becomes very large, giving rise to the mesentomere, 4d.
About the 50-cell stage, fig.
9, the macromeres A, B, and C divide, giving rise to the secondary macromeres 4A, 4B, and 4C The mitotic figures for this division are cpiite large and are proportional in size to the resting nuclei from which they arise.
From this stage onward the nuclei of all the macromeres enjoy a long "rest," during which they grow to double their rnaxinuun diameter at any previous stage (figs.
9-24).
The greatest diameter of the nucleus during the 2-cell and 4-cell stages is about 40 //; during the formation of the three quartets the nuclear diameter is not greater than this, but rather smaller; before the formation of the secondary macromeres (fig.
8) the diameter of the nuclei in A, B, and C is about 50 //; at the close of their long rest and just before their next division (fig.
24) the nuclei are about 80 ix in diameter.
liK)?.]
XA'rrUAL SCIKXCES OF IMlILADMLrillA.
335 The diameter of the misejiineuted ejig is about l.TOO/i; that of each of the macromeres during the formation of the quartets about 970 }x\ while in the stages after the formation of the fourth quartet it is somewliat less, say aljout 900 [.l Therefore, although the diameter of the cell body in these later stages is but little more than half that of the unscgmented egg, the nucleaidiameter is twice as great as at any pro\'ious stage.
The ratio of the nucleai' diameter to the cell diameter, the "Kernplasmarelation" (k/p) of Hertwig (1903), is about 1 : 40 in the unsegmented egg; about 1 : 24 in the 4-cell to 24-cell stages; about 1 : 20 just before the formation of the Secondary macromeres; and about 1 : 12 at the close of the long resting period of the macromeres.
shown in fig.
24.
In the micromeres of the 8-24-cell stages the ratio of the nuclear diameter to the cell diameter is about 1:5; and in the later stages, such as fig.
IS, it rises to 1 : 3.
It seems perfectly evident from these figures that the a])solute size of the nucleus is tlependent not only upon the size of the cell, but also \\\)im the length of the resting period; and by the same showing the length of the resting period is not determined primarily by the size of ti\c nucleus.
In all the earlier divisions of the macromeres of Fulgur the division comes on when the nucleus is relatively small (k/p = 1 : 24) ; in later stages it does not come on until the nucleus has grown to twice this size (k/p =^ 1 : 12).
In Crepidula I found (1902) that the si2;e of the nucleus, chromosomes, centrosomes, spindles and asters was, in the last analysis, proportional to the volume of the cytoplasm, and I tried to show that the inmiediate cause of division was the growth of the nucleus to a ])oint where the ratio of nucleus to cytoplasm exceeded a critical limit.
This is certainly not the principal factor w^hich brings on division in Fuhiur: and the fact that mitosis may occur in one cleavage when the nucleus is relatively small and in another not imtil it becomes very large, suggests that the moment of division may be dependent upon some intrinsic condition in the nucleus or centrosome, rather than upon the ratio of nuclear size to cell size.
Support is lent to this viewby the phenomena of oogenesis ; here we have in the germinal vesicle the largest nucleus in the entire life cycle, following upon one of the longest i-esting periods, while the second matui-ation division follows immediately after the first; here also the moment of di\-ision seems to depend upon intrinsic conditions in the cell.
In the division of the cell IdocIv Fnlgur presents some interesting conditicwis.
Attention has been called to the fact that although the spindle in the first cleavage is very small the entire egg divides.
Equally sin-prising is the fact that in the divisions of the primary and secondary macromeres subsec|uent to the formation of the fourth quartet, the nucleus only divides while the cell body remains imdivided (figs.
17-28).
The cell bodies of these entomeres do not divide again until very late in development, if at all ; even in figs.
34 and 35, in which the eml^ryo shows many definitive structures, the furrow between two of the original macromeres can be seen running ol)liquely through the region below the head vesicle {H .
V .).
It seems to me that the following explanation may be offered of this apparent anomaly.
In the early stages of development the cell substance is quite fluid, as has been pointed out (p. 326), whereas in the later stages the substance of the macromeres becomes much more consistent.
In the later stages of development the macromeres do not show the tendency to burst or to undergo distortion during fixation, which is so troublesome in the earlier stages: this is, I believe, due to the greater consistency of the yolk during the later stages.
This same difference in consistency may explain also the curious fact that the entire cell divides in the early stages, whereas only the nucleus divides in later stages.
In this connection attention may be called to the fact that there is apparently a great increase in the ciuantity of cytoplasm in the later stages, as compared with the earlier ones (cf.
figs.
1, 6, 25).
This increased ciuantity of cytoplasm might be due to the liquefaction of the yolk and its transformation into cytoplasm, or it might be the result of the segregation into the ectodermal cap of cytoplasm originally spread through the yolk substance.
It is prol3a]:)le that both of these processes occur, but in view of the increasing consistency of the yolk during the period of quartet formation, it seems very probal^le that most of the cytoplasm of the early stages was present as such, but in a diffused form, in the unsegmented egg.
III.
Organogeny.
It has been shoAvn that there are but few and minor differencesbetween Fulgur and Crepidula in the cleavage up to a stage of about 100 cells (fig.
16).
After this stage the differences in development become more marked.
The first notable difference is found in the number of micromeres; by repeated divisions of the three quartets of ectonieres these cells become very miuierous in FuUfur, as shown in figs.
17, IS, ct scq., whereas in Crcpulula the number remains relatively i^mall.
It is evident that the same cell stages in the two no longer rejM-esent similar stages in differentiation; for example, the shell gland is one of the first organs to appear, and is first visible in Crepidula when tliere are about 250 cells present (Conklin, 1897, fig.
74); while it fii-st becomes visible in Fuhjur when there are about 1,000 cells (fig.
23).
The period of the closure of the blastopore is very different in the two; in (JrcjiiduUi this occurs before any organs are visible (fig.
65), in Fulgur only after almost all the larval and many of the definitive organs are present (fig.
31).
Other striking differences between Fulgur and Crepidula are found in the form and character of the different organs and in the time at which they appear, but most of all in the method of formation of these organs and in their relation to the yolk.
1.
OVERGROWTH OF THE YOTJv AND COXCHESCEXCE OF THE EMimVO.
Owing to the fact that the entomeres are so large in Fulgur, organs begin to differentiate long before the closure of the blastopore, indeed while the blastoderm is still a small cap at the animal pole of the egg (figs.
23-26).
The organ bases are here spread out as in a mercator's chart, whereas in Crepidula the organ bases do not appear until the blastoderm has overgrown the yolk and they occur over the sphere, so that only a few of them can be seen from a single point of view.
In the earlier stages of Fulgur the organ bases occur in the anterior half as well as in the posterior portion of the blastoderm (figs.
21-23) ; later by the very rapid growth of the median anterior portion of the blastotlerm these organ bases are displaced laterally and posteriorly until they come to form a kind of germ ring, or crescent, along the posterior margin of the blastoderm (figs.
24-28).
This germ ring contains the bases of all the future organs, whereas the rest of the blastoderm forms a kind of yolk sac.
The manner of the overgrowth is represented diagrammatically in the accompanying text figure.
The outlines of the blastoderm in successive stages of the overgrowth are indicated by the numerals 1-S. By superimposing on the same figure these different stages of the overgrowth it is possilile to see at a glance the character and relati\'e amount of the movement of the different organ bases.
Thus in 1, the center of the blastoderm is approximately the center of the animal i)ole; in front of this lie the cerebral ganglia (c5) 33S [July, and velar row (v), while the buccal ganglia (be) lie at the right and left_margins of the blastoderm.
Posterior to the animal [pole is Diagram illustrating the more important phases in the overgrowth of the yolk by the blastoderm in Fulgur carica.
The outer circle represents the outline of the entire egg, and the smaller circles, numbered 1 to S, represent the margins of the blastoderm in successive stages of the overgrowth.
The egg is represented as seen from the posterior pole, and in order to bring all stages into one figure the arc through which tiie posterior margin of the Ijlastoderm moves is represented as less than is actually the case.
The outline of the blastoderm and the positions of the organ primordia in stage 1 correspond to figs.
25 and 26, plate XXATI ; stages 2 and 3 correspond to fig.
27; stage -4 to fig.
28; stage 5 to fig.
29; stages 6 and 7 to fig.
30; stage 8 to fig.
31.
In stage 1 the velar cells are represented as a double line of stipples anterior and lateral to the cerel^ral ganglia (cb) ; the buccal ganglia (be) lie at the lateral margins of the blastoderm ; immediately posterior to the shell gland (.s) is the primordium of the intestine; on the left of this is the alidominal ganglion, and on each side of tlie latter are the parietal ganglia, the pleural ganglia, the otocysts and the pedal gangHa.
In stages 2-7 the cerebral ancl buccal ganglia are represented in dotted outlines ; in stages 1 and 8 they are stippled, as are the other primordia.
found an organ complex which includes the shell gland, intestine, abdominal, parietal, pleural and pedal ganglia, and the otocysts.
By the growth of the median anterior portion of the blastoderm, the cerebral ganglia and velar cells and the buccal ganglia are carried around to the successive positions indicated in the diagram, while the organ complex described above undergoes little movement.
The diagram is faulty in that it shows too little movement of the organ complcx of the posterior lip, and tlnis represents the final position of the l)lastt)pore too near the posterior pole, but it represents fairly well the relative movements of the different organ bases during the first four stages sliown (1-4).
Reference to the first and second cleavage furrows l)etween the macromeres, shown in figs.
25-2.S, will show that the posterior margin of the blastoderm remains relatively fixed during this period, while at the same time the blastoderm extends forward and laterally ; still later the blastoderm extends posteriorly also, and finally the blastopore closes at the vegetal pole (fig.
30).
2.
APICAL INVAGINATION.
The first structure which appears in the course of development is an invagination of ectodermal cells just anterior to the animal pole and in the region of the anterior arm of the cross.
This invagination is preceded by a broad depression of the blastoderm (fig.
18), and then the center of this depression becomes deeply cup-shaped (fig.
19), and finally tubular in form (fig.
20).
The axis of this tubular invagination at first runs forward under the ectoderm; then it becomes perpendicular to the surface of the blastoderm ; and subseciuently it runs backward under the ectoderm, its opening being at its anterior end (fig.
20).
The inner, blind end of this invagination lies near the anterior end of the polar furrow, and in some instances, though not in all, a few cells are separated from the invagination at this point.
The anlagen of the cerebral ganglia are formed on the right and left of this invagination, but they do not appear to be derived from it.
Similarly a few mesoderm cells, which probaljly correspond to the "larval mesoderm" of other mollusks, lie on each side of the invagination, though they are not derived from it (see the black nuclei in figs.
19 et seq.).
Subsequently this conspicuous and definite structure completely flattens out and disappears (figs.
21 et seq.
), leaving not a trace behind.
This fact seems so remarkable and the significance of the invagination is so problematical that I have devoted considerable time and effort to the study of it.
It is evident that this invagination is not merely the result of the sinking in of the blastoderm over a cavity in the yolk.
There is frequently a cavity between the macromeres, but this invagination invariably lies anterior to this cavity, and in many cases it actually forces its way into the substance of the yolk.
In some cases also a prominent evagination is formed instead of an invagination, showing that there is very active growth in this region of the blastoderm.
It seems to me probable that this invagination is a mechanical adaptation to secure a rapid extension of the anterior half of the blastoderm over the yolk.
During the growth of the invagination the area of the blastoderm remains stationary, or actually grows smaller; as soon as it flattens out there is a very rapid increase in the area of the blastoderm (cf.
figs.
20 and 21), especially of that portion lying anterior to the first cleavage plane.
Coincidently with this increase in area the secondary macromere, iB, begins to move forward in the furrow between the macromeres and the^ blastoderm rapidly extends forward.
The remarkable extent of the growth of this anterior portion of the blastoderm may be seen by comparing the positions of the organ bases in figs.
19-30.
In the earlier figures the shell gland and the two cerebral ganglia form the angles of an isosceles triangle, the base of which is directed forw^ard (figs.
21 and 22) ; in later stages the ganglia separate more widely and the triangle becomes ec|uilateral (figs.
23 and 24); still later the cerebral ganglia are separated so widely that they lie in line with the shell gland (figs.
27 and 28) ; and finally the cerebral ganglia again approach each other on the ventral side of the embryo (figs.
29 and 30).
The greatest growth of the blastoderm takes place in the area between and in front of the cerebral ganglia, in the very region of the apical invagination, and it seems reasonable to suppose that the remarkable growth of this region is associated with the formation and subsequent flattening out of this structure.
iMcMurrich (1886) described at some length this invagination, and he compared it with a similar formation observed by Blochmann (1883) in Neritina, and by Sarasin (1882) in Bythinia.
He says: "It seems very strange that an invagination so well marked as it is in Neritina and Fulgur should disappear and leave no trace of its existence, but so it seems to do."
His further conclusion that it would be found to occur in most, if not all, of the prosobranch gasteropods has not been justified by later studies.
3.
SHELL GLAND, SHELL AND MANTLE.
The shell gland is one of the earliest and largest of the developing organs, and is the one most instrumental in shaping the form of the embryo.
It appears as an aggregation of ectodermal cells in the median plane posterior to the apical pole (figs.
21, 22).
These cells, which are probably derived from the cell 2d, increase greatly in nimiber and form a saucer-shaped depression (figs.
23-26, Sh.).
This depression then becomes deeper and smaller in surface area (figs.
27, 28) and subsequently it evaginates in the manner characteristic of gasteropods, the margin of the gland forming a ridge, the mantle edge, while the center is covered by the cuticular substance which forms the earhest sliell; l)eneath this sliell is a veiy thin Layer of ecto(hM-in, in which the nuclei are few and far apart.
The niariiin of the shell ^laiid, or mantle eilge, is at first circular in outline; then it Ijeconies uniformly elliptical (figs.
29 and 30); finally it continues to extend in all directions, except where it comes into contact with the organ complex on the ventral side of the embryo; here the growth of tlie mantle edge is arrested, and consequently a notch in the developing shell and mantle appears here, which notch grows deeper as the mantle edge extends farther (figs.
31-36).
The area covered by the shell grows larger continually and the yolk appears to slip through the ring formed by the mantle edge, while at tlie same time the blastoderm and its organ anlagen are retained in front of this ring.
In this way the yolk slips out of the anterior portion of the embryo, and the tension on the blastoderm being relieved in this manner, the latter is free to undergo the foldings necessary to form the head vesicle, velum, larval kidney antl heart ; at the same time the mantle edge, continuing to grow forward on the dorsal side, gives rise to the mantle fold and mantle chamber.
On the ventral side the forward growth of the mantle edge is stopped l)y the organ complex (figs.
35, 36).
In the earlier stages of this overgrowth, the mantle edge and organ complex are apparently bilaterally S3anmetrical ; in later stages it can be seen that the organs are more developed on the right side (left in ventral view) than on the left, and consequently the notch in the mantle edge is displaced from the median plane toward the right.
In this way the assymetry of this gasteropod makes its appearance.
Along the left side of the notch (right in ventral view) a cellular thickening of the blastoderm occurs near the mantle edge (figs.
34, 35, CmM.)
which gives rise to the columellar muscle, while the shell formed along this portion of the mantle edge is the columella.
It is well known that in annelids the ectoderm of the trunk is derived from the ectomere 2d (= X).
In Fulgur, Crepidula and several other gasteropod s, cells derived from the ectomere 2d give rise to the mantle edge and fold and to the layer of cells covering the yolk unfler the shell.
This fact suggests that the elongation of the embryo through the ring of the mantle edge may possibly be comparable to the elongation of the trunk of the annelid.
4.
NERVOUS SYSTEM AND SENSE ORGANS.
In their earliest stages the organ bases may be recognized by the fact that the nuclei are closer together and the i.irotoplasm stains more 23 deeply than in other portions of the blastoderm.
In the case of the nervous system certain of the ganolia are from the first clearly distinguishable, whereas some others in the organ complex posterior to the shell gland (fig.
23) cannot be distinguished until a later stage.
a. Cerebral Ganglia.
— The group of cells which will form the cerebral ganglia appears at a very early stage.
It is shown in figs.
19 and 20 on each side of the apical invagination, and closely connected with the group of cells lying beneath the superficial layer, which I have identified, somewhat doubtfully, with the "larval mesoderm" (fig.
21, Lf7i.).
The cells which give rise to the cerebral ganglia arise in the region of the blastoderm, on each side of the anterior arm of the cross and in front of the transverse arms, probably from the "rosette" cells, exactly as in Crepidula, and they probably correspond in origin as well as destiny to the cells of the "cephalic neural plate" of N'ereis (cf.
Conklin, 1897, p. 110).
With the great growth of the anterior part of the blastoderm, which follows the flattening out of the apical invagination, these cerebral ganglia are carried laterally until they lie near the margin of the blastoderm (figs.
21, 22, Cb.).
In figs.
23 and 24 they lie still nearer the margin, and their protoplasm and nuclei are somewhat more condensed than in the previous stage; the bases of all the organs now stain more deeply and they are all connected together by deeply staining protoplasm (figs.
23, 24).
In all these stages the cerebral ganglia lie anterior to the middle of the blastoderm and are the anteriormost organs present.
Later they are carried back until they lie in the posterior lip of the blastopore and at opposite ends of a transverse line which lies nearly in the plane of the first cleavage, and along which line most of the organ bases of the embryo are found (text fig.
and figs.
27, 28).
Still later, by a continuation of the movement already described, the cerebral ganglia are carried posterior to the first cleavage plane and to the other organs of the posterior lip, and they then approach each other on the ventral side of the embryo, and come to lie on each side of the blastopore (figs.
29.
30).
This movement of the cerebral ganglia may be l^etter described by pointing out their position with reference to the shell gland, v.diich may be considered as a_fixed point.
In earlier stages the shell gl'^nd forms the apex of an isosceles triangle, the other angles being forined by the cerebral ganglia; then by the separation of the ganglia the triangle becomes equilateral, and still later the angle at the apex increases imtil the ganglia and the shell gland lie in one straight line: then by a continuance of the movement of the ganglia a triangle is formed on the.
opposite (ventral) side of the shell <;lii"«l.
which develops in the inverse order of that on the dorsal side (t(>\t figure).
In the stages shown in figs.
30 and 31 the cerohial ganglia lie lateral and slightly posterior to the blastopore; in fig.
32 they lie on the sitlcs of the blastopore, and a process is growing out from each toward the other in front of the blastopore; in fig.
33-36 they lie in front of the blastopore and are closely connected together by the cerebral conunissurc.
Along the posterior edge of each cerebral ganglion a leaf-like process is formed which is the tentacle (figs.
35, 36, T.), and at the outer end of the furrow which separates the tentacle from the blastoderm the eye appears (figs.
34-36).
h. Buccal Ganglia.
— Lateral and slightly posterior to each cerebral anlage is a group of cells which gives rise to the buccal ganglion (figs.
22, 23, Be).
These cells lie at the very periphery of the blastoderm and are probably derived from the ectomeres 2a and 2c.
In the overgrowth of the yolk they accompany the cerebral ganglia, moving from the dorsal to the ventral side in the posterior lip of the blastopore (figs.
27-29), and finally coming to lie along the posterior border of the blastopore (fig.
30).
A\lien the blastopore closes the buccal ganglia of the two sides come into contact on the posterior side of the blastopore (fig.
31 and text figure).
c. Pleural, Pedal, Parietal and Abdominal Ganglia.
— ^The other ganglia of the nervous system form part of the complex of organs lying between the shell gland and the posterior lip of the blastopore.
The l)leural ganglia lie on each side of the shell gland and on the lateral borders of the organ complex (figs.
23, 24) ; the pedal ganglia lie on the median side of the pleurals; close behind the shell gland are the groups of cells which give rise to the parietal and abdominal ganglia.
The anlagen of these ganglia are not clearly separated at this time, and only in the later stages (fig.
28 cl seq.)
are they quite distinct.
When the foot begins to appear (fig.
31) the pedal ganglia are included within it.
and the pleural ganglia lie on each side of the foot, while the otocysts lie between the two (fig.
28 et seq.).
The otocysts are here, as elsewhere, formed as an invagination of the superficial ectoderm.
All the ectodermal organs of this region are derived from the cell 2d, with the possible exception of the pleural ganglia, which lie on the lateral borders of the organ complex and may therefore come, in part, from the cells 3c and Sd.
In aimelids the ectoderm of the trunk region and the ventral neural plate, which gives rise to all the nervous system posterior to the mouth, come from this same cell, 2d, the "first somatoblast."
Lillie (1895) fo\md the same condition among ]amellil)ranchs.
Among the gasteropods this cell is not larger than the other members of the second quartet, but it is destined to give rise to all the important ectodermal organs posterior to the mouth.
In this fact we have a striking illustration not only of the value of cell-lineage in comparative embryology, but also of the fundamental similarity of annelids, lamellibranchs and gasteropods.
The parietal and abdominal ganglia, with their connectives, are recognizable as thickenings of the blastoderm in a stage as early as fig.
28, but they are not clearly distinguishable until a later stage (figs.
30, 33, 34), In these figures the entire nervous system is easily recognizable.
The cerebral ganglia are connected by the cerebral commissure anterior to the mouth, and they are united with the pleurals and pedals by the cerebro-pleural and the cerebro-pedal commissures respectively on each side of the cesophagus.
The parietal ganglion of the left side lies almost directly behind the foot, and is connected with the pleural of the left side by the pi euro-parietal connective; the parietal of the right side lies on the right side of the foot and is connected with the pleural of that side, while the two parietals are connected together by the nerve loop which runs alongside of the intestine and near its middle bears the abdominal, or visceral, ganglion.
In these and the following stages (pi.
XXVIII, figs.
35 and 36) the entire nervous system and the twisting of the parietal loop may be seen with diagrammatic clearness.
This twisting, which is a part of the general movement toward the right of all the organs posterior to the foot, carries the left parietal ganglion to the right side of the foot, where it lies in contact with the right pleural, while the abdominal lies still farther toward the right and the dorsal side (fig.
36) ; at the same time the right parietal is carried up to the dorsal midline, where it lies on the dorsal side of the oesophagus (fig.
36).
The entire nervous system, except the buccal ganglia, Avhich are here hidden from view by the cerebrals, is shown in very nearly its definitive position in fig.
36.
All of the six pairs of ganglia may be recognized in fig.
30, and four pairs are recognizable in fig.
23.
In all of these regards the nervous system of Fulgur shows fundamental resemblances to that of Crepidula.
To one who had not observed the earlier stages in the origin of the cerebral ganglia it might seem that these ganglia, which lie so near the periphery of the blastoderm and so closely connected with the other organs of the posterior lip, could not possibly have arisen from cells of the first quartet anterior to the transverse arms of the cross.
It is only by a study of the early history of these ganglia and their subsequent movements that one can cleterininc that the cerebral gansiUa, and indeed all the gansHa, arise in corres[)ondinj2: parts of the egg in FaUjur and Crepvlula.
Such a study shows that amidst all the differences in the mode of development of these ganglia, there is the most fundamental resemblance in their places of origin in the egg, and that therefore the localization of the germinal sul)stances of the egg in the early cleavage cells follows the same pattern in these two genera.
5.
THE VELUM.
The velum arises in close relation to the cerebral ganglia, and its place of origin furnishes another striking illustration of what are apparently fundamental differences between Fulgur and Crepidula, l)ut which are in reality fundamental resemblances.
In Fulgur the velum is first visil:)le as a dense band of nuclei on the median and posterior sides of the cerebral ganglia (fig.
28, V.).
These velar bands are widely separated from one another and are entirely disconnected.
In later stages these velar bands more completely encircle the cerebral ganglia; each has somewhat the form of a ]iarabola, one liml) of which runs forward in the lip of the blastopore, while the other, which lies posterior to the cerebral ganglion, runs out towards the lateral regions of the embryo and there ends in the general blastoderm (figs.
29, 30).
Subsequently, \\hen the blastopore narrows and closes, the two limbs which run forward in its lips unite in front of the mouth (figs.
31, 32), while the lateral limb turns forward over the sides of that portion of the embryo which will become the head vesicle (figs.
33, 34).
From the posterior side of each band there is given off a branch which runs across the embryo posterior to the mouth and there joins its fellow of the opposite side, thus giving rise to the post-oral band, while that portion of the velum which runs in front of the mouth is the ))re-oral band.
Both of these bands were observed and described by Mc>huTi('li (1S8G).
In subsequent stages the velum is drawn out into a prominent bilaminar fold (figs.
35, 36).
This velar fold or lobe grows out to a very great size, much larger than is shown in fig.
36, the ciliated velar cells being borne around its edge, as in other prosobranchs.
By the beating of these cilia it is probable that the embryos are able to move very slowly within the egg capsules, though they never swim freely, the young escaping from the capsules only after the velar lobe has been absorbed.
The velum in FuUjur is not a highly sensitive and contractile organ, as in Crepidula and in man}' other forms; apparently, it cannot be retracted, even in its most fully developed stage, and it is needless to say that in the stage shown in fig.
36 there is no cavity into which the velum, the head or the foot could be retracted.
From the preceding account it is evident that during the later stages of its development the vehim in Fulgur is much the same as in Crepidula or any other prosobranch.
In its early history, however, it seems to be altogether different.
It appears, as has been said, on the median and posterior side of the cerebral ganglia when these structures lie far apart in the posterior margin of the blastoderm (fig.
28) ; in Crepidtda it first appears about the time of the closure of the blastopore as a transverse row of cells in front of the mouth.
In Fulgur it consists of two bands of cells on opposite sides of the embryo, which are entirely separate from each other ; in Crepidula it is a single structure continuous from side to side.
However, in spite of these striking differences, it can be shown, I think, that the velum has a similar origin in both of these genera.
Traces of the velum in Fidgur may be foimd at a much earlier stage than that shown in fig.
28; thus in fig.
23 a row of what I take to be velar cells may be seen on the lateral and anterior sides of the cerebral ganglia (the nuclei of these cells are shown in heavy outline).
The position of this row of cells indicates that it has arisen from the cells adjoining the ganglion on the anterior and lateral sides, and since the ganglia themselves come, in all probability, from the "rosette" cells, the velar cells must have come from the anterior "turret" cells and perhaps also from the terminal cells of the transverse arms of the cross.
In short, the velar cells arise in Fidgur in the same region and probably from the same cells as in Crepidula.
Here again, as in the case of the cerebral ganglia, there is fundamental agreement between Fulgur and Crepidtda in the early and late stages in the developm.ent of the velum; it is only in those stages of the overgrowth of the yolk, which are undoubtedly highly modified in Fidgur, that we find striking differences between these two genera.
6.
BLASTOPORE, MOUTH AND (ESOPHAGUS.
By the very great growth of the blast oderin in the region of the apical invagination the anterior portion of the blastoderm rapidly surrounds the yolk, while its posterior margin, containing all the organ bases, remains relatively fixed in position near the animal pole (figs.
25-28).
Subsequently this posterior margin also extends over the yolk to such an extent that the blastopore finally lies at the vegetal pole of the egg (fig.
30).
The anterior lip of the blastopore is always composed of an extremely thin layer of cells, and this portion of the blastopore is usually circular in outline; the posterior lip of the blastopore is always composed of a thicker layer of cells than the anterior lip, and it is not circular but is compressed laterally, as shown in fig.
30.
The blastopore then narrows until it is almost if not entirely dosed (figs.
31, 32), and an invagination of ectoderm cells occurs here, which is the stomodieum.
The mt>uth is formed at the very place where the blastopore closes, and the oesophagus is formed by the elongation of the stomodeal invagination (fig.
36, (E.).
In the closure of the blastopore and the formation of the mouth and cesophagus Fulgur completely resembles Crepidula.
7.
INTESTINE AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL.
The intestine is formed from enteroblast cells derived from the mesentomere 4f/.
These enteroblasts lie in the midline behind the shell gland and they constitute the stem of a Y-shaped group of cells, the branches of the Y being the mesodermal bands (figs.
22, 23).
In its earliest stages the intestine is a round, densely staining group of cells, which lies at a lower level than surrounding portions of the blastoderm.
After the posterior margin of the blastoderm has extended over to the ventral side of the embryo, the intestine lies between the margin of the shell gland behind and the visceral nerve loop and abdominal ganglion in front (figs.
28-30).
About the time of the closure of the blastopore the anlage of the intestine elongates toward the right (left in ventral view), becoming at first eUiptical in shape (fig.
31) and then tubular (fig.
32 et seq.).
Up to the time of this elongation it lies in the median plane; after this it, together Avith other organs posterior to the foot, moves to the right.
The end of the intestine which remains nearest the midline is the anal end, though the anus does not form until a much later period; the end farthest to the right is the gastral end.
The intestine lies just in front of and parallel with the edge of the shell ; in fig.
32 its course is nearly transverse to the long axis of the embryo, the notch in the shell being at this stage very shallow.
As the shell grow"s forward on the dorsal side more rapidly than on the ventral, this notch grow\s deeper, and the right edge of the shell becomes parallel v.ith the long axis of the embryo (figs.
33-35) ; at the same time the intestine turns from a transverse to a longitudinal course.
The visceral nerve loop accompanies the intestine in this movement, the abdominal ganglion always lying close to the mesial side of the intestine.
Finally the mantle cavity begins to form on the mesial side of the intestine, and the latter is thus carried into the roof of the mantle chamber, the anal end of the intestine remaining near the mantle edge, while the gastral end reaches to the deepest portion of the mantle chamber (fig.
36).
In all of these details as to the formation of the intestine there is striking similarity between Fidgur and Crepidula.
In Crepidula the gastral end of the intestine o{)ens into a lumen between the yolk cells, which give rise to the stomach and liver.
In Fvlg.ur I have observed no such lun\en between the yolk cells, and while I think it probable that these cells form the stomach and liver in this animal, I have not traced their history far enough to speak with certainty upon this point.
In Fulgur as in Crepidida the secondary macromeres lie at the inner end of the stomodteum (fig.
31), and they prol^ably form that section of the alimentary canal immediately following the stomodieum.
8.
THE FOOT.
The development of the foot is practically the same in Fulgur as in other prosobranchs.
It appears as a thickening of that portion of the blastoderm lying between the otoc3'Sts behind, the blastopore in front, and the pedal ganglia on the sides (figs.
29 and 30).
It is at first wide in -transverse direction and narrow antero-posteriorly and it is bilobed, the two lobes being separated on the side of the blastopore by a groove in which the blastoderm remains thin (figs.
30 et seq.).
The foot then gradually rises above the general level of the blastoderm until it becomes prominent, becoming about half as wide from side to side as in earlier stages (figs.
33, 34); at the same time it takes into itself the pedal ganglia and otocysts.
At the posterior end of the groove between the two lobes an invagination is formed which becomes the pedal gland (P. G., figs.
33, 34).
A transverse furrow on the surface of the f(X)t then constricts off a smaller anterior lobe, the propodium, from a larger posterior one, the mesopodium and metapodium (figs.
35, 36).
9.
LARVAL AND DEFINITIVE KIDNEYS.
Rumiing laterally from the foot a ridge of cells develops on the right and left sides; this ridge lies some distance posterior to the velum, with which it is nearly parallel; its free border, or crest, becomes crenated (figs.
34, 35, Ex.K.).
This is the larval or external kidney and, as in other prosobranchs, consists of large ectodermal cells which become loaded with nitrogenous waste substances.
It is an interesting fact that the larval kidney of Fulgur does not appear until after the basis of the i)ermanent kidney is present (figs.
32, 33), and its relatively small size seems to indicate that it is never an important excretory oriian in this animal.
I have not observed the destiny of these excretory cells in Fiilyur, l>ut in Crcpidula, where they are relatively larger, they are ultimately pinched off and set free with their load of nitrogenous waste.
In Fasciolaria, as Glaser (1905) has shown, the external kidneys become colossal organs, which are filled with nitrogenous waste substance.
Here the great size of these organs is probably associated with high metabolism of nitrogen, the result in this case of the cannibalism of the embryo.
The small size of these organs in Fulgur probably indicates low nitrogenous metabolism in the embryo.
The definitive kidney has no structural connections with the larval ones.
It appears as a single structure near the gastral end of the intestine (figs.
32 et seq.
), and a duct develops from it which runs along the right side (left in ventral view) of the intestine (figs.
34, 35).
As a result of the invagination which forms the mantle chamber, both the kidney and the intestine come to lie in the roof of that chamber, and since the kidney lies near the edge of the mantle it undergoes little movement during this invagination ; the intestine, which lies farther from the mantle edge, moves under the kidney during this invagination, and thus the relative positions of these two organs are interchanged, the kidney coming to lie on the left side of the intestine (fig.
36).
10.
GILL AND HEART.
At its earliest appearance the gill lies on the anterior side of the kidney and in close contact with it (figs.
33, 34).
Before the formation of the mantle chamber it is merely an aggregation of cells and shows no characteristic structure.
After the formation of the mantle chamber it lies on the left side of the kidney and its anterior border becomes crenated, each of these lobules giving rise later to a tentacle-like process.
The larval heart (figs.
35, 36, L.H.)
appears as a blister under the blastoderm at the right of the larval kidney (fig.
34).
The walls of this vesicle contain smooth nuiscle cells and are pulsatile.
I have observed no definite vessels leading to or from this heart, and it probably serves merely to keep lymph moving through irregular channels.
In later stages the larval heart is carried up on to the dorsal side of the embryo behind the head vesicle ami velum (fig.
36) ; this movement is a part of the general twisting of all the organs, which were originally posterior to the foot.
I have not observed the manner of origin of the definitive heart and have not been able to recognize its anlage, unless it may be the dark body between the reference letters M and Pa in fig.
36.
IV.
Conclusions.
The development of the principal organs and organ systems of Fulgur has now been described, with especial reference to their celllineage and topographical relations.
It has not been possible to trace the entire cell-lineage of any organ, owing to the very large number of cells which are present before organs appear, but it is possible to determine the quartet and usually the individual cell of the quartet from which any organ arises.
In a few cases (cerebral ganglion, velum, intestine) organs may be traced back to individual cells of a stage much later than the quartet formation, but in no case is it possible to observe every division of the cells which enter into the formation of an organ.
This lack of a complete knowledge of the cell-lineage is not peculiar to Fulgur, but is general among forms in which the cell-lineage has been studied, and it is not a great hindrance to the study of the localizations of morphogenetic substances and processes of the egg.
If groups of cells which give rise to certain organs can be traced back to certain quartet cells, this is usually sufficiently detailed information as to the cellular oiigin of an organ.
In Fulgur it is unusually easy to trace this connection between blastomeres and organs, owing to the fact that the organs appear while the blastoderm is still a flat i)late.
Next to the resemblances between Fulgur and Crepidula in the early cleavages, there is no similarity between these forms more striking than that which is found in the cellular origin of homologous organs.
Although the organs of these two genera may differ widely in size and early position, there is not a single instance in which there is any good reason for supposing that these organs have arisen from unlike cleavage cells of the early stages.
On the other hand, there is the best of evidence that homologous organs in Crepidula and Fulgur arise from corresponding cells of the different quartets, and even from corresponding cells of much later stages (60-cell stage), even though in still later stages these organs may occupy widely different regions of the embryo, as in the case of the cerebral ganglia.
AVith regard to the later cleavages, it is not only impossible to follow the lineage of individual cells imtil they give rise to organs, but it is certain that the cells of these two genera cannot be individually compared, since there are many more cells in Fulgur at a given stage of differentiation than in Crepidula.
For example, there are about 250 cells in the embryo of Crepidula at the time of the first appearance of the shell gland, in Fulgur there are about 1,000 cells, and in any comparison of the cells at this stage it must be remembered that in general four cells of the latter are equal to one of the former.
Not onlj^ does the number of cells differ in correspond iuju; stages of differentiation in tliesc two forms, but e\cn in the same species there are variations and irregularities in the later cleavages which are not present in the earlier ones.
When these irregularities of the later cleavages are compared with the invariable features of the early ones, such as the segregation of the ectoderm in three quartets of cells and the origin of the mesoderm of the tnmk region from one cell of the fourth quartet, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the early cleavages are of greater morphogenetic value than the later ones.
Furthermore, the conditions found in Fulgiir, as compared with those in Crepidula, show that neither the presence of a large amount of yolk in the egg before cleavage, nor the modifications of the later stages, due to the presence of this yolk, affect the localization of the morphogenetic materials and processes in the earlier stages.
The conclusion seems to be justified that the type of this localization is a more general and fundamental character than the form of gastrulation, or any other relatively late process in the ontogeny.
In Fulgur as in many other animals the egg shows polar differentiation while it is still in the ovary, and even before yolk formation begins.
The yolk is laid down in all parts of the egg, and before matiu-ation one pole is not noticeably richer in protoplasm than another.
Witli the maturation of the egg the segregation of the protoplasm and yolk begins, most of the protoplasm passing to one pole and becoming the future ectoderm, while the yolk remains at the opposite pole and with a relatively small amount of protoplasm gives rise to the endoderm.
In the first tw^o cleavages this yolk is distributed equally to the four quadrants of the egg, and since the blastopore forms at the vegetal pole, the ectoderm must extend equally (but not synchronously) over the yolk in all directions.
In the early stages of this overgrowth the anterior portion of the blastoderm extends more rapidly than the posterior portion, and by this means the cerebral and buccal ganglia are brought into close relation with the other orgaixs present in the posterior margin of the blastoderm.
In many animals the yolk is not distributed equally to the four quadrants of the egg {e.g., Urosalpijix, Nassa, Denlalium, Chdtopterus, etc.
), and wherever this is the case a "yolk lobe" of considerable size is present.
When one macromere is much larger than the others a large yolk lobe is attached to it ; when the cleavage is approximately equal the yolk lobe, if present, is small.
Crampton (1896) has shown that the removal of the yolk lobe causes the absence of mesoderm in Illyonassa; and in his beautiful "Studies on Germinal Localization" Wilson (1904) has found that when the polar lobe of Dentaliuvi is removed the resulting larva lacks the post-trochal region and probably also the mesodermal bands.
Both of these authors found that following the removal of the lo])e the four quadrants of the egg were equal in size.
It cannot be assumed that the size of the lobe is proportional to the size of the somatoblasts 2d and 4rf, or to the size of the post-trochal region, or to the quantity of mesoderm which is formed later.
In Fulgur, Crepidula and ail other cases in which the quadrants are nearly equal in size, the yolk lobe is much smaller than the post-trochal region or the mesentomere 4c?, or even the mesodermal bands; while in Illi/onassd, Tritia, and other forms in which one of the macromeres is much, larger than the others, the yolk lobe is much larger than the cell 4rf.
On the other hand the lobe is usually associated with unequal division of the yolk, and its size is proportional to that inequality.
Therefore I believe that the real significance of the yolk lobe is to be found in its relation to equal and unequal cleavage.
Since the blastopore forms at the vegetal pole in all gasteropods, so far as known, unequal division of the yolk must lead to unequal growth on the part of the blastoderm: if the posterior m^cromere is large the overgrowth must be greater in a posterior direction than in an}^ other; if the anterior macromere is larger than the others, as in certain opisthobranchs, the blastoderm must grow more anteriorly than posteriorly.
When all the macromeres are equal the overgrowth must take place equally in all directions, though the case of Fulgur shows that it may be accelerated at one time in one portion of the blastoderm and at another time in another portion.
The most striking difference Vjetween Fidgur and other gasteropods is found in the manner of this overgrowth, and consequently in the manner in which the different organ bases are carried from theu" point of origin to tlieir definitive positions in the embryo.
In both the point of origin and the definitive position of the various organs there is fundamental agreement between Fulgur and Crepidula, but in the manner of passing from their point of origin to their final position there is marked dissimilarity.
In Crepidula the region of greatest growth of the blastoderm lies on the dorsal side between the anlagen of the cerebral ganglia and the shell gland ; in Fidgur it lies anterior to the cerebral anlagen.
In Crepidula, as a result of this condition, the cerebral ganglia are carried forward around the anterior end of the embryo vmtil they come to lie anterior to the mouth on the ventral side.
In Fulgur the same ganglia are carried backward around the yolk until they finally reach the same position on the ventral side of the embryo.
It.
has been customary hitherto to regard such ])cculiarities of the embryo as primary, and the associated peculiarities of cleavage stages as secondary adaptations to these later appearing peculiarities; but this puts the cart before the horse.
The adaptations of cleavage are adaptations to conditions pre-existing in the egg, and not adaptations to conditions which appear later in the embryo or adult.
Given the enormous yolk of Fulgur or the small yolk of Crcpidida plana, and the embryo must adapt itself to these conditions of the egg; or, in other words, the earlier conditions in ontogeny stand in the relation of cause to the later conditions, and not the reverse.
When I first observed in Fulgur the great modifications in the location of organ bases, which is unlike anything hitherto described, and found, for example, that the cerebral ganglia and velum were located in the posterior lip of the blastopore, I thought, for a time, that here was a new^ pattern of germinal localization, and that the generalization that homologous structures always come from homologous regions of the egg had broken down.
Further study has shown that this is not the case, and that the great modifications in the location of embryonic organs in Fulgur are not primary but secondary, while the localization pattern in the early cleavages is the same as in other gasteropods.
Hence I regard the case of Fulgur as a triumph for the method and doctrine of cell-lineage.
Those who see in this method only 'the counting of cells,' 'mitotic book-keeping,' 'the drudgery of dull minds,' have missed the whole point and significance of this method, which is not to name every cleavage cell, but to determine in what areas of the egg certain morphogenetic processes are located.
To know that such processes may be localized in the egg is valuable information, even though the pattern of this localization should differ for every animal; but to have discovered that through all the multifarious modifications which are found in the embryos and adults of great animal classes, such as the gasteropods or annelids, this same pattern runs unchanged, — this is illuminating.
Summary.
1.
The eggs of Fulgur carica are among the largest of gasteropod eggs, their relatively great size being due almost exclusively to the great quantity of yolk which they contain.
These eggs are thirteen times the diameter and about 2,000 times the volume of those of Crepidula plana, with which particularly they are compared.
2.
The cleavage of the egg of Fulgur is, cell for cell, like that of Crepidula up to the GG-GO-cell stage, the only difference being in the relative sizes of the macromeres in these two genera.
Some of the individual features in which the cleavage of Fulgur resembles that of Crepidula are the following : a.
The direction, rh3^thm and quality of each cleavage is the same.
b.
The first and second cleavages are equal; the first is transverse to the median plane of the embryo, the second coincides with that plane; a small yolk lobe is formed during each of these cleavages.
c. The ectoderm is segregated in three quartets of micromeres.
d. The first formed member of the fourth quartet, M, is the mesentomere; its anterior portion gives rise to the mesodermal bands and its posterior portion to the intestine.
e. The remaining members of the fourth quartet, viz., 4 A, 45, 4C are entomeres and give rise to all portions of the alimentary canal and its outgrowths, save the intestine and stomoda3um.
/.
The first quartet of ectomeres forms a "cross", wdth its centre at the apical pole and with anterior, posterior, right and left arms.
Between the arms are the "turret" cells, and between these and the apical pole are the "rosette" cells; all of these cells are derived from the first quartet, except the "terminal" cells of the arms which are derived from the second quartet.
The cross is formed of exactly the same cells in Fidgur as in Crepidula, but it is neither so distinct in form iwr so persistent.
g. The second and third quartets surround the first and are composed of cells which divide in the same order and direction as in Crepidula.
3.
In later cleavages many more ectoderm cells are formed in Fulgur than in Crepidida at corresponding stages of differentiation.
4.
The overgrowth of the yolk is highly peculiar in Fulgur.
By very great extension of the anterior half of the blastoderm, while the posterior half remains relatively fixed, all the organ bases are carried to the posterior margin of the blastoderm, where they form a kind of germ ring.
Subsequently the posterior margin also moves over the yolk, so that the blastopore is finally formed at the vegetal pole.
5.
Before the extension of the anterior portion of the blastoderm an apical invagination of ectoderm cells is formed in the region of the anterior arm of the cross.
This invagination subsequently flattens out and completely disappears.
Its function seems to be connected with the rapid extension of this part of the blastoderm.
6.
The cerebral ganglia arise on each side of the apical invagination, probably from the anterior "rosette" cells.
The velar cells arise around the outer margins of the ganglia, probably from the anterior "turrot'' colls.
By the rapid growth of the anterior portion of the blastoderm these organ bases arc forced far apart and posteriorly vintLl they come to lie in the posterior margin of the blastoderm, antl by a continuation of this movement they are carried around to the ventral side of the eml^ryo, where the two halves of these organs approach each other and finally unite in front of the mouth.
7.
The paired buccal ganglia arise lateral to the cerebral and probal)ly from derivatives of 2a and 2c; they extend over the yolk in the same manner as the cerebrals and finally concresce on the ventral side of the embryo posterior to the mouth.
8.
All other organs (shell gland, pedal, pleural, parietal and abdominal ganglia, foot, intestine, kidney, gill, heart, etc.)
arise from the median posterior portion of the blastoderm, and chiefly, if not entirely, from the two "somatoblasts," 2d and 4d.
The bases of all of these organs, except the last three, appear when the blastoderm is still a small plate, and in the case of paired organs they are from the first connected across the median plane and do not, therefore, undergo concrescence.
The origin of these post-oral organs from the two somatoblasts is strikingly like the condition found in annelids, and the elongation of the bod}' of the gasteropod through the shell gland is similar to the elongation of the body of the annelid.
9.
All homologous organs arise from corresponding cleavage cells in Fulgur, Crepidula, and probably all other gasteropods.
Great increase in yolk does not modify the type of germinal localization, though it does profoundly modify gastridation and later stages.
10.
This indicates that germinal localization in the egg and in the cleavage stages is more fundamental and primitive than are the later processes of ontogeny.
CYTOLOGICAL.
11.
During quartet formation the nuclei of the macromeres divide at relati^•ely short intervals and they remain relatively small, the ratio of maximum nuclear diameter to cell diameter ("Kernplasma-relation" K/p) being 1 : 24.
In later stages the resting period of the nucleus is very long and the ratio rises to 1 : 12.
The size of the nucleus is therefore dependent not only upon the size of the cell, but also upon the length of the resting period.
There is in this species no fixed ratio of nuclear size to cell size, and the cause of cell division cannot be found in the maintenance of a constant ratio.
12.
After the formation of the fourth quartet the macromeres do not again divide, although the nuclei do.
In the first and second cleavages the macromeres divide equally; this apparent anomaly is 356 [July, probably due to the fact that cytoplasm is distributed through the yolk in the early stages and is lacking in the later ones.
This suppressed cleavage of the yolk in the later stages is an approach to the condition found in meroblastic eggs.
References.
No attempt is made in this paper to review recent important contributions on cell-lineage, foremost among which must be mentioned the important memoirs of Robert (1903) on Trochus, Wierzejski (1905) on Physa, and Carazzi (1906) on Aplysia.
The papers here listed are those mentioned in the body of this work.
Blochmann, F. 1(S82.
Ueber die Entwicklung der Neritlna fluviatalis, Zeit.
wiss.
Zool, XXXVI.
Brooks, \V.
K. 1879.
The Acquisition and Loss of Food Yolk by Molluscan Eggs, Studies from Biol.
Lab.
Johns Hopkins University, Vol.
I. CoNKLiN, E. G. 1897.
Tlie Embryology of Crepidula, Jour.
Morph., XIII.
.
1902.
Karkokinesis and Cytokinesis in the Maturation, Fertilization and Cleavage of Crepidula, Jmir.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., Vol.
XII.
Crampton, H. E. 1896.
Experimental Studies on Gasteropod Development, Arch.
Eutwm., III.
FuJiTA, T. 1895.
Preliminary Note on the Mesoderm Formation of Pulmonata.
Zool.
Mag.
Tokio, Vol.
VII.
Glaser, O. C. 1905.
Ueber den Kannibalismus bei Faaciolaria tuJipa (var.
distans) und deren larvale Excretionsorgane, Zeit.
wi.ss.
Zool., LXXX.
Hertvvig, R. 1903.
Ueber Korrelation von Zellimd Kerngrosse und ihre Bedeutung ftir die geschlechtliche Differenzierung und die Theilung der Zelle, Biol.
Centrcdb., XXIII.
LiLLiE, F. R. 1895.
The Embryology of the Unionid.ne, Jour.
Morph., Vol.
X. McMuRRiCH, J. P. 1886.
A Contribution to the Embryology of the Prosobranch Gasteropods, Studies from Biol.
Lab.
Johns HopkinsUniversity jVol.lJJ .
.
1896.
The Yollc liobe and Centrosome of Fulgur carica, Anat.
Anz., XII.
Morgan, T. H. 1893.
Experimental Studies on Teleost Eggs, Anat.
Anz., VIII.
Sarasin, p. 1882.
Entwicklungsgeschichte der Bythinia tentaculata, Arh.
Zool.
Inst.
Wilrzburg, VI.
ViGUiER, C. 1898.
Contribution a I'etude du development de la Tethys fuiihriata, Arch.
Zool.
Exp., 3, XVI.
Wilson, E. B.
1904.
Experimental Studies on Germinal Localization: I.
The Germ Regions in the Egg of Dentalium, Jour.
Exp.
Zool., I.
Reference Letters.
A, B, C, D, Macromeres.
]a, lb, etc., First quartet cells.
2a, 2b, etc.. Second quartet cells.
3a, 36, etc.. Third quartet cells.
4d, Mesentoblast.
4.4, 4B, 4C, Secondary macromeres.
A.L, Apical invagination.
Bp., Blastopore.
Cb., Cerebral ganglion.
Be., Buccal ganglion.
PL, Pleural ganglion.
Pd., Pedal ganghon.
Pa., Parietal ganglion.
Ab., Abdominal ganglion.
E., Eye.
G., Gill.
H.V., Head vesicle.
/., Intestine.
K., Kidney.
Ex.K., Larval kidney.
L.H ., Larval heart.
L.M., "Larval mesoderm."
M., Mantle.
Ms., Mesodermal bands.
O., Otocvst.
P.G., Pedal gland.
Sh., Shell eland.
T., Tentacle.
V ., Velum.
Cm.M ., Columellar muscle.
Oc, (Esophagus.
])ks, KIl'TION (»F rLATKS XX 1 1 I — X \ \1 1 1.
All till' liiiurcs were drawn at tlic staj:^' IcN'cl witii tlic aid of tlio camera lucida; plates XXIII, XX\ II and XWIII under Zi-i.ss Apoclironiatic Oijj.
Itj nun., Go.
1; plates X.\I\', .\.\V and XX\I with Obj.
S mm., ( )e. 4.
The figures of the former plati's are therefore magnified (12 diameters; of the latter, 124 diameters.
In the process of reproduction the lifiures were reduci'd a little more than half, so that as they appear on the plates they represent a maf^nilication of about 30 diameters and (iO diameters respectively.
All the drawings are of <'ggs or embryos of Ftdgur carica, fixed, stained and mounted as described in the first section of tliis paper.
Plate XXIII.
— Entire eggs; 1-cell to 24-cell stages.
Fig.
1.
— Unsegmented egg, sliowing first cleavage spindle and surroimding cytoplasm.
Fig.
2.^Two-cell stage, showing lajotropic turning of cytoplasm, nuchn and spheres preparatory to the second cleavage.
Fig.
3.
— Four-cell stage; the positions of nuclei and spheres indicates that the transverse furrow is here the second one.
Fig.
4.
— Eight-cell stage, showing first quartet of micromeres which have turned in a dexiotropic direction ; in two of the macromeres are nuclear spindles for the formation of tlie second cjuartct, which arises in a la'otropic direction.
Fig.
5.
— Sixteen-cell stage.
The first quartet ha.s divided heotropically, giving rise to the "apical" cells centrally and the small " turret" cells periplierally.
The seeond quartet cells are dividing in two quadrants, and the third quartet cells are arising dexiotropically from the micromeres.
Fig.
6.
— Twenty-four-cell stage, resulting from tlie completion of all tlie divisions initiated in the preceding figure.
Pl.vte XXIV.
— Blastoderms during the earlier stages of cleavage.
Fig.
7.
— Same stage as sliowii in fig.
6, but magnified twice as much ; twenty micromeres and four macromeres ; the separation of the ectoderm from the macromeres is now complete.
Fig.
8.
— Forty-five-cell stage.
Every cell of the preceding stage has dixided .
or is dividing, except the macromeres A, B and C. The '"apical" cells have given rise to the "basals" of the arms of the cross; one .second quartet cell in each cjuadrant has produced the "tip" cell (stippled) of eacli arm: the tliird ciuartet cells are dividing hrotropically, and the macromere D has produced the mesentoblast cell, -id.
Fig.
9.
— Fifty-five-cell stage.
All divisions initiated in the preceding figure are here' completed, and in addition the basal cells of the transverse arms of the cross have divided.
The mesentoblast (4d) has given rise to six cells (two large and four small ones), and the macromeres A , B and C have given off the other members of the fourth quartet, Aiz., 4.1, iB and 4C.
Fig.
10.
— Fifty-six-cell stage.
Similar to the preceding, but showing the basal cellOf the anterior arm of the cross di\-ided and spindles in sonie of the cells derivecl from tlie second quartet.
The cross is shown in heavy outline; there are three cells in each of the arms except the posterior one.
The centre of the cross is here, and elsewhere, marked by a cross line, the "tip" cells of the arms, by stipples.
Fig.
11.
— Irregular Sl-cell stage; derived from prececUng stage by divi.sion of the basal cell of the posterior arm, of eight cells of the third quartet, of eight cells of the second quartet, and of eight turret cells.
Fig.
12.
— Eight v-five-cell stage: derived from the" preceding by the completion of iill divisions there indicated and by the subdivision of the basal and middle cells in the transverse arms of the cross.
24 PL-4.TE XX^'.
— Blastoderms, showing later stages of cleavage.
Fig.
13.
— Another S5-oell stage, eonsistiiig of 72 ectomeres, 6 mesentomeres ajid 7 entomeres.
Fig.
14.— Stage with 111 cells ; 98 ectomeres, 6 mesentomeres and 7 entomeres.
This is a more advaneed stage than the two following ones.
Fig.
15.. — Stage with 89 cells; 70 ectomeres, 6 mesentomeres, 7 entomeres.
Fig.
16.
— Stage with 104 cells; 91 ectomeres, G mesentomeres, and 7 entomeres.
Fi^"' 17.
— Stage with 121 cells; 101 ectomeres, 10(?)
mesentomeres and 7 entomeres.
Fig IS.
— Stage of about 320 cells.
The ectomeres are very numerous and are somewhat depressed below the general level in the region anterior to the apical pole.
The nuclei of the secondary macromeres, 4A, 45 and 4C, are dividing.
Plate_XXVI.
— Blastoderms, from the time of formation of the apical invagination to the appearance of the primordia of definitive organs.
All nuclei and cell boundaries, where shown, were drawii vnth 'the camera lucida, so that their number and location are fairly accurate.
Fig.
19.
— Stage of approximately 512 cells.
The apical invagination (A.I.)
is a deep pit just anterior to the animal pole.
The mesentoblast (4c/) has given rise to the mesodermal bands (Ms.).
Fig.
20.
— Stage slightly more advanced than the preceding, sho\\'ing the apical invagination as a tubular ingrowth, with its opening near the anterior edge of the blastoderm ; the nuclei of the secondary macromeres (4A, 4B and 4C) are di\'iding a second time.
Fig.
21.
— Stage immediately after the flattening out of the apical invagination, only a trace of which is here sho-mi.
On each side of the latter is a grovip of cells, lying Ijeneath the surface of the blastoderm, and represented with solid black nuclei, whicli are probal^ly "larval mesoderm" cells (L.M.)
; the superficial group of cells in this region ultimately gives rise to the cerebral ganglion (Cb.
), while the aggregation of cells lying between and in front of the mesodermal bands (Ms.) is the primordium of the shell gland.
Two of the secondary macromeres (4.1 and 4C) have, exceptionally, divided.
J7g 22.
— In this and the following figures all traces of the apical invagination have disappeared; in other respects this figure is similar to the preceding one.
Fig.
23.
— Stage of about 1,000 cells, in wJiich the shell gland is plainly -visible as a disk of cells, slightly depressed in the middle, and in which the primordia of the cerebral (Cb.
), buccal (Be), pleural (PL), and pedal (Pd.)
ganglia and of the intestine (In.)
are recognizable as groups of cells.
The row of nuclei on the outer side of each cerebral ganglion probably represents the primordium of the velum, while the more deeply staining area connecting the two cerebral ganglia across the apical pole probably corresponds to the "cephalic neural plate" of annelids.
The nuclei of the secondary macromere (iB) are dividing a third time, but the cell body remains undivided.
Fio-.
24.
— Stage in all regards similar to the preceding, except that the blastoderm has grown larger.
The nuclei in the macromeres have here reached their maximum size (cf.
the nuclei of the same cells in figs.
7 and 10).
Plate XXVII.
— Entire eggs, showing stages from the appearance of organ primordia to the completion of the overgrowiih of the yolk.
Figs.
25 and 26.
— Stages similar to the one sho^^^l in fig.
24.
The primordia of different organs are indicated by the closely stippled areas, the stipples representing nuclei.
Yig, 27.
— Stage in \Yhich the blastoderm has extended through the growth of its anterior portion, over about one-third of the yolk.
The organ primordia are confined to a small area in the posterior margin of the blastoderm.
The nutlei of the macromeres are dividing.
Fig.
28.
— Stage in vvliich the biastoilorm li:i.s overgrown ahrxit one-half of the yolk.
Priniordiu of the following organs are ,sh(jwn: Cerebral ganglia {€!>.
), velum (K.), buccal gangha (Be), i)leural ganglia (PL), pedal gangha (Pd.
), otocysts (between ])lc.ural ami piMhil ganglia), intestine (In.
), parietal gangUa (ou eadi side of intestine), and .shell gland.
Fig.
29.
— Stage in which about two-thirds of the yolk ha.s been overgrown.
In addition to the organ primordia already" named, the foot is also \isible between the two pedal ganglia.
Fig.
30.
— Final stages in the overgrowth of tiie yolk.
The blastopore (Bp.)
is a relatively small area of yolk at the vegetal pole, still uncovered by tlie bhvstoderm.
The secondary macromeres (4A, 4B and 4C) lie in the lips of tlie blastopore, and wliile they contain many nuclei their cell boilies are still undivided.
Th(!
velum has begun to extend forward around the anterior side of the blastopore, while the buccal ganglia (Be.)
lie in its lateral borders.
All the organ primordia named above are plainly \'isible, and in addition the abdominal ganglion may be seen on the left of the intestine.
Plate ^XXVIII.
— Entire embryos, from the closure of the olastopore to the formation of the larv^a.
Fig.
31.— Embryo showing the blastopore very small.
Tiis margin of the shell gland has extended widely, while the area within this margin is covered by the embryonic shell (Sh.).
Fig.
32.
— Stage showing the closure of the blastopore and the establishment of the pre-oral and post-oral velar bands The margin of tlie shell gland sliows a deep notch posterior to the intestine, which grows more pronounced in later stages.
The two cerebral ganglia are approaching each other in front of the blastopore.
The primordium of the permanent kidney (K.) is recognizable.
Fig.
33.
— Older stage, in which nearly one-half of the embryo is covenid by the shell.
The cerebral ganglia are united by a commissure in front of the mouth.
Fig.
34.
— A stage in which about two-thirds of the embryo is covered by the shell.
Fig.
3.5.
— Stage showing head vesicle (II.V.
), larval heart (L.H.
), mantle (M.), columellar muscle (Cm.M.
), external kidneys (Ex.K.)
and tentacles, (T.) in addition to the other organ primordia named in the description of figs.
28-30.
Fig.
36.
— r^ater embryo, showing the formation of the m.antle cavity, gill, velar lobes and the twisting of the nerve loop.
The primordia of all important organs are present at this stage.
