DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF ANNELID FEOM WOODS HOLE.
 BY J. PERCY MOORE Syllides verrilli n. sp.
Form moderately slender slightly flattened and wider in the middle region.
Size small length 2.53 mm. maximum width .2.3 mm.
Prostomium large fig.
1 a depressed slightly wider than long broadly elliptical or subquadrate with rounded corners often slightly emarginate anteriorly and nearly straight posteriorly.
Eyes three pairs reddish brown the first pair minute and situated well in advance of the others just behind and external to the base of the lateral antennae the second and third pairs much larger subequal their diameter about  the wddth of the prostomium both on posterior half of prostomium  the middle pair widest apart and separated by about 5 times their diameter the posterior pair slightly behind and mediad of them near the posterior margin of the prostomium.
Fig.
1.
 Syllides verrilli.
a dorsal view of head with protruded proboscis b ventral view of prostomium and 3 segments showing palps c pvgidium with caudal cirri all X S3.
Fig.
b from No.
2402 all others from No.
2401.
Palpi fig.
1 h very small mammilliform situated on the ventral face of the prostomium and directed downwards invisible or nearly so from above.
They consist of swollen bases and short cirriform distal iortions which alone ever appear in dorsal views.
Tentacles fig.
1 a all short stoutly clavate the middle one arising on a line joining the anterior borders of the middle pair of eyes their length equaling or slightly exceeding the prostomial width their ends bluntly rounded and about twice as thick as the base.
Lateral tentacles arise close to anterior border of prostomium their bases separated by a distance 1007.1 449 nearly equal to A the width of the prostomium their length slightly less than tiie median tentacles and nearly or quite the prostoniial width.
When visible from above the ends of the palpi appear immediately beneath these.
Peristomium obsolete or nearly so dorsally almost completely coalesced with the prostomium below and projecting but little beyond it laterally.
The mouth far forward with prominent posterior lip.
Tentacular cirri figs.
1 a and h like the tentacles from which they differ only in being supported on very short cirrophores the dorsal as long as lateral tentacles ventral slightly shorter.
Metastomial region very slightly depressed the segments increasing in width slightly to the middle.
The first seven as far as the caudal end of the gizzard are short and crowded succeeding ones are longer and contain the gonads.
Pygidium a small ring with rounded posterior outline scarcely distinguishable from the preceding segment.
It bears a short unjointed median ventral style and a pair of very long slender unjointed cirri as long as the greatest width of the body fig.
1 c.
Parapodia fig.
2 a strictly uniramal on the first seven metastomial segments of sexually mature worms and on all segments of immature worms.
They are prominent their length nearly equaling the width of Fig.
2.
 SijUides verrilli.
a parapodium VIII from liohind X 250 h tip of neuropodial aciculum X 600 c average neiiropodial compound seta from X X 600 d profile and rear views of end of simple nouropodial seta X 600.
All drawn from No.
2402. the body slender somewhat compressed at the base the neuropodium becoming conical distally and ending in a salient dorsal angle from which the distal border slopes ventrad and which is supported by a single stout aciculum.
Anterior and posterior short lips embrace the yo bases of the setae which are arranged in a broad vertical fan fig.
2 a.
The first seven pairs of parapodia have no notopodia whatever the succeeding ones on sexually mature worms bear notopodial setigerous sacs on the dorsal face of the base of the neuropodium but there is no distinct notopodial elevation or lobe.
On the first three metastomial segments the notocirri are exactly like the peristomial cirri in both form and size.
Succeeding ones become more slender and tapered with the tip often abruptly more slender and increase in length until they ecjual the width of the segments.
They also become distinctly jointed or even beaded fig.
2 a.
In the middle of the body they are as long as the body diameter and have 78 divisions.
There is a great difference in this respect in different specimens some having the cirri much more strongly moniliform than others.
Sometimes there is a slight but distinct alternation of longer and shorter cirri the former being always the more strongly beaded but these conditions are not constant.
Posteriorly the cirri become again shorter.
Neurocirri fig.
2 a are coalesced with the ventral border of the neuropodia to near the end where the styles become free and reach to the ends of the ventral setae.
They are subconical usually with irregular constrictions and thickenings and a more slender blunt terminal piece.
Aciculum single neuropodial only rather stout tapered straight or slightly curved extending obliquely nearly into the dorsolateral angle of the neuropodium beyond which it projects and terminates in a large flattened and roughened knob fig.
2 b.
Neuropodial sette of two kinds both longer than the parapodium and colorless.
The first fig.
2 d is a single and never more moderately slender simple seta arising dorsal to the end of the aciculum of each parapodium curved and slightly thickened distally finely toothed along the convex side and slightly enlarged and bifid at the end.
The second form is compound fig.
2 c.
These form spreading vertical subacicular tufts which on the more anterior parapodia contain 20 or more in several ranks the number becoming gradually reduced to 10 or 12 on middle segments and 7 or 8 posteriorly.
Shafts more slender than the simple setffi slightly curved deeply unequally bifid distally with a single small accessory tooth on the side of the larger division.
Appendages delicate slender elongated the longest anterior dorsal ones equalling the diameter of the parapodium but diminishing toward the ventral side posteriorly until they are only  as long.
Distally they are divided into two slender unequal slightly curved teeth separated by a narrow cleft.
Apparently the margins are finely fringed but this appearance disappears posteriorly.
Sexually mature specimens bear on all parapodia after 'lll a tuft of extremely delicate capillary seta as Ions 5 the width of the body plus one parapodium.
These do not arise from a special notopodial tubercle but from a notopodial setigerous area at the base of the dorsal and posterior face of the neuropodium and are not even supported by a notopodial aciculum.
AVlien retracted the proboscis occupies the first 3 segments and the gizzard the next 5.
Wlien extended the proboscis fig.
1 a is cylindrical or urnshaped reaching to or beyond the end of the cephalic tentacles the chitinous lining thick brownish with a smooth reflected rim and no tooth.
Just behind the rim is a circle of 10 rather prominent rounded soft papillae.
When the proboscis is protruded the very large gizzard is drawn forward into somites II to VI inclusive.
Body generally colorless when alive the intestine grayish drab and the eyes bright red.
As noted above the sexual forms are simple epitokes with swimniug sette and gonads beginning at somite IX behind the stomach.
Taken rather rarely at the surface at Woods Hole.
Type No.
2402 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
This is the species referred to by Verrill as having been taken at Woods Hole along with S. setosa Rep. U. S. Fish Comm.
for 1882 1884 p. 664 footnote and is perhaps the S. longicirrata Oersted of Webster and Bendict taken by them at Eastport Me. but is not that species as described by European authors.
From typical species of the genus it differs in the small size and ventral position of the palps.
In this respect it stands nearest to S. setosa with which it should probably stand in a separate subgenus.
THE LIFEAEEAS OF SOUTHERN NEW JERSEY.
BY WITMER STONE.
As pointed out by Verrill as early as 1866 the eastern United Statesis divisible into four main parallel faunal and floral belts or lifezones  the Canadian Alleghanian Carolinian and Louisianian or Aiistroriparian.
While the general trend of these belts is east and west they are greatly deflected by the Appalachian mountain chain so that in eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey they run more nearly northeast and southwest.
The Canadian zone is limited to the higher parts of the mountains in Pennsylvania often mere isolated islands present in New Jersey only in the northwestern corner of the State  if at all  the Alleghanian occupies the greater part of Pennsylvania and the northern third of New Jersey while the Carolinian is restricted to the southeastern and southwestern corners of Pennsylvania and central and southern New Jersey.
This would represent roughly the relative position of the three lifezones in these States based upon a study of the birds and mammals though the exact boundaries are hard to trace owing in part to the gradual passage of one fauna into the other the overlapping of the ranges of certain species and the constant changes that are being effected by the destruction of the forests.
These belts may be subdivided into minor areas dependent upon peculiar climatic topographic or geologic conditions.
The study of the distribution of the various species of terrestrial vertebrates is often of little aid in defining these minor lifeareas because the conditions that produce them are not sufficiently potent to act as barriers to the ranges of such freemoving forms.
Plants however are far more susceptible to these influences and their great wealth both of species and individuals offers an enormous amount of data to any one engaged in studying the boundaries of minor lifeareas.
Consequently in the study of the lifeareas of southern New Jersey in which I have been engaged for a number of years I have paid especial attention to plants though I have of course taken advantage of any other data that were availalle.
While I contemplate a much fullor and more exhaustive treatment of the subject in the future it seems desirable to present at once some of the conclusions to which my studies have led.
It would seem that those portions of eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey that we have been accustomed to refer to the Carolinian zone are divisible into several areas running in a general northeast and southwest line parallel to the mountains I.
A hilly or rolling country adjoining the Alleghanian on the west and north and reaching east and south to the flat bottom of the lower Delaware Valley and the old Raritan basin.
II.
The Delaware Valley West Jersey region.'
III.
The Pine Barrens.
1'.
The Atlantic Coast strip including the higher parts of the coast islands.
V. The Maritime meadows and sea beach.
It is with the three middle divisions that this paper has to deal  the Pine Barrens the Delaware 'alley and Coast Strip.
The greater part of southern New Jersey is composed of what is known as the Pine Barren region covering according to current views all the country east and south of a line from Long Branch to Bridgeton.
The flora of the Pine Barrens is very uniform with relatively few species but generally so difTerent from that of the area to the west that the passage from one to the other is easily noticeable even from a moving railway train.
Indeed I am not acquainted with any transition so striking elsewhere in the Middle States.
The West Jersey flora is identical with that of the low grounds on the Pennsylvania side of the Delaware at Tinicum Bristol TuUytown and doubtless also of the lower part of Philadelphia when that was in a state of nature.
This same flora extends northeastward across New Jersey above the Pine Barrens and south of the hilly region to the north.
Indeed the resemllance between the plant life at Tinicum Delaware Co. Pa and from Monmouth Junction to Princeton Junction N. J. is remarkable.
The flora of the New Jersey Pine Barrens has long been familiar to botanists and the species of the south Atlantic coastal plain which here find their northern limit have for the most part been listed for 'Plate XII in Sali.slury's Physical Geographij of New Jersey 1S9S Vol.
IV.
Final Rep. of State Geologist shows a remarkable correspondence witli my floral areas.
Tlie area of Pensauken submergence being almost equivalent to mv Delaware Valley and Coast regions while the elevated Beacon Hill region is the typical Pine Barrens.
many years A feature of the Pine Barren flora however quite as striking as the presence of these southern forms and one upon which Uttle stress has been laid is the absence of very many widely distributed species.
In Dr. N. L. Britton's Catalogue of Plants jound in New Jersey many common species are given as occurring throughout the State which are entirely absent from the Pine Barrens.
Another point of interest is the fact that the Pine Barren flora does not cover the entire southeastern portion of the State.
Along the whole seaboard back of the salt meadows is a strip of varying width supporting a flora essentially similar to that of West Jersey and in the Cape May peninsula these eastern and western strips join together almost to the exclusion of the true Pine Barren flora which occurs only in spots or islands south of the Great Cedar Swamp.
The southern portion of the Cape May peninsula especially on the Delaware Bay side harbors qviite a number of plants that are distinctly more southern than those of the Pine Barrens and would seem to constitute a tinge of the Austroriparian zone which normally reaches its northern limit at the Capes of the Chesapeake.
Some of these plants extend up into West Jersey and others up the eastern coast strip a varying distance but none of them into the Pine Barrens.
Opposed to these two southern elements we have three boreal incursions into the southern New Jersey flora First certain bog species of the Pine Barrens second a number of northern species which occur in West Jersey especially close to the edge of the Pine Barrens and third species which occur in the coastal strip and in the wooded areas that are found here and there on the long narrow islands that form the true sea beach of eastern New Jersey frequently separ ated by five or six miles of salt meadows or bays from the mainland.
While not attempting in the present connection to correlate these lifeareas and boreal and austral incursions with conditions which may have produced them I mention below some of the more characteristic species which distinguish them.
I.
The Pine Barrens.
The characteristic trees of this region are in the dry portions Pinus rigida Quercus marylandica Q. nana Q. jninor Q. prinus Q. prinoides Sassafras sassafras.
In moist spots Chanuvcyparis thyoides Nyssa sylvatica Magnolia virginiana Acer ruhrum Betida populifolia.
Characteristic shrubs are Gaylussacia resinosa G. frondosa G dnmosa 1907.1 455 Vaccinium vascilhnis V. corimbosu Ldicothoe raccmosa Xolisyna ligustrina Kalmia latifolut K. angustijolia Azalea viscosa Cldhra alnifolia Viburnum nudum and Comptonia peregrina.
While the above are the most oonspiciuni' romponents of the flora they are v no means confined to thi.s area.
The followinfi list includes the peculiar Tine Barren species and those which occur southward along the Atlantic coastal plane Init which find their northern limit in the New Jersey Pine Barrens.
A few of them do occur it is true on Long Island  in colonies which seem to constitute northern pine barren islands A few also occur in such spots in West Jersey but in the main these species are absent from both West Jersey and the eastern coast strip and in any case may be regarded as typical Pine Barren species.
Lycopodium carolinianum Lycopodium alopecuroidcs Calamovilfa brevipilis Sporobolus iorreijanus Fanicum sphagnicola Carex walteriana Cjperus cylindricus Rynchospora torreyana Rynchospora gracillenta Rynchospoja oligantha Rynchospora pallida Rynchospora knieskernil Scleria torreyana J uncus marginatus aristulatus Juncus ccesariensis Xyris fimbriata Toficldia raccmosa Abama americana Xerophyllum aspodeloides Smilax walteri Smilax tamnifolia Smilax laurifolia Blephariglottis cristata Lophiola americana Gyrotheca iinctoria Arenaria caroliniana Ascyrum stans Hypericum densiflorum Hypericum virgatum ovalifolium Polygala lutea Polygala brevifolia Meibomia stricta Ilea virginica Dendrium.
buxi folium Pyxidanthera barbulata Sabbatia lanceolata Gentiana porphyria Lobelia canbyi Lacinaria graminijolia pilosa Eupatorium leucolcpis Eu patori u m res inos u m Sclerolepis uniflora Helianthus augustifolius Aster gracilis Aster nemoralis Solidago stricta Solidago fistulosd Solidago erecta llie northern element in the Pine Barren flora consists of the following species which find their southern low ground limits in this region or a little to the soutii of it.
Those market 1 with an asterisk are peculiarly Pine Barren species so far as southern New Jersey is concerned not occurring in West Jersey or the coast strip.
Schiiwa pusilla Blephariglottis blephoriglottis Sporoholus serotinus Coreimna conradii Car ex livida Utricularia clandestina Car ex folliculata Gaultheria procumbens Carex trisperma Chamxvdaphne calyculata Eriophorum polystachion Arctostaphylos uvaursi Juncus pelocarpus Vaccinium atrococcum Juncus mUitaris Chrysopsis falcata Unifolium canadense Among birds we find three species which breed regularly in the Pine Barrens but not in West Jersey i.e. Dendroica vigorsii D. discolor and Compsothlypis americana usnea.
A number of species common in West Jersey are however absent from the Pines.
Among mammals we have two species peculiar to the Pine Barrens Evotomys gapperi rhoadsi and Synaptomys cooperi both boreal incursions and several West Jersey species which are absent i.e. Sciurus carolinensis leucotis and Tamias striatus.
II.
Lower Delaware Valley Region and Coast Strip.
West Jersey from Trenton southward west and southwest of the Pine Barrens supports a far greater variety of trees than the Pine Barrens.
The most plentiful species not found in the latter region are Pinus virginiana Juniperus virginiana Quercus phellos Q. digitata Q. platanoides Q. coccinea Castanea deniata Fagus americana Betula nigra Ulmus americana Hicoria alba H. glabra H. minima Carpinns caroliniana Liriodendron iulipifera Platanus occidentalis Diospyros virginiana Cornus florida Liquidambar styraciflua Prunus serotina and Ilex opaca.
 Those marked with an asterisk are not found on the hilly country which begins just west of the Delaware nor north of the low ground between Trenton and the Raritan.
In this West Jersey district too we meet with many plants common to the Pine Barrens but which do not extend farther north or west.
Such as Woodwardia areolata Euphorbia ipecacuanoe Woodwardia virginica Gerardia purpurea Iris prismatica Eupatorium maculatum Lilium superbum Eupatorium album Poly gala nuttalli  Eupatorium rotund i folium Rhexia mariana    Euthamia caroliniana etc.
1907.
457 There are also a great nuniljer of plants common to tliis rejiion and the iijiland and not found in the Pine liarreus.
The difference in the flora of the two regions as already stated is due quite as much to the absence of these plants as to the presence of peculiar southern species.
A few of the commoner members of this group are Spathyema foetida Arisama triphyllum Erythronhnn virgimcum Anemone nemorosa Ranunculus ahortivus Ra7iunciilus fascicularis Ranunculus recurvatus Thalictrum polygamum Caltha palustris Viola cucullata Viola papilionacea Viola sagittata Asclepias pulchra Lobelia cardinalis Hieracium giganteum Eupatorium purpureum Eupatorium perfoliatum Vernonia noveboracensis Senecio aureus The narrow Atlantic coast strip has practically the same flora as the lower Delaware Valley though many of the trees are absent.
The northern incursions into this flora are as follows most of them local and some of them rare  In West Jersey Filix fragilis Ackea alba Polygonum careyi Pyrola secunda Pyrola chloraniha In Bogs Carex fusca Menyanthes trifoliata On the Coast Strip Sevastana odorata Triglochin maritima Sabbatia angularis On the Coast Islands Geranium robertianum Vaccinium pennsylvanicum Rhododendron maximum Ilicioides mucronata Pedicularis lanceolata Scheuchzeria palustris Limosella tenui folia Trientalis americana Lacinaria spicata Salmonia stellata Among southern species which reach the lower Cape May peninsula and push northward either in West Jersey or along the coast strip may be mentioned the following.
Most of these do not range north of New Jersey those marked with an asterisk not north of southern Cape May county.
None of them are Pine Barren species.
Chcetochloa tnagna Quercus michauxii Brachiaria digitarioides Blephariglottis peramoena Paspalum glnbratum Juncus setaceus Sacciolepis gibba Kosteletzkya virginica Sporobolus asper Silene pennsijlvanica Aristida lonosa Hypericum gymnanthum Erianthus compactus Hypericum adpressum Andropogon argyrceus Euonymus americanus Eleocharis ochreata Gratiola pilosa Eleocharis melanocarpa Tecoma radicans Rynchospora corniculata macrosDiodia virginiana tachya Lobelia puberula Rynchospora rariflora Eupatorium coelestinum Gymnandeniopsis nivca WilloughbcBya scandens Costanea piimila Senecio tomentosa The fact that we have in the West Jersey area a number of birds and mammals not found in the Pine Barrens has already been alluded to.
We have also certain species which correspond to the northern and southern elements just spoken of in treating of the plants.
Zamelodia ludoviciana and Empidonax minimus both breed occasionally as far south as Camden county while in Cape May and southwestern Burlington counties we have the only recorded nesting of Polioptila ccerulea in the State.
In lower Cape May we also have record of the occurrence of Mimus polyglottos Centurus carolinensis and Lanius ludovicianus  while Quiscalus major has occurred once on the coast strip.
The lower part of West Jersey too marks the northern limit of Oryzomys palustris.
While the land and fiuviatile mollusks of such a sandy country as southern New Jersey are necessarily not abundant Dr. H. A. Pilsbry tells me that such species as occur on the east coast strip are depauperate forms of northern types while in the southwestern part of Cape May county he has found Succinea campestris vagans and Bifidaria hordeacclla southern forms not recorded from elsewhere in New Jersey.
The former is a race of Succinea campestris of Georgia and Florida while the latter is not known elsewhere north of the same States.
Among insects distributions have not as a rule been sufficiently well worked out to warrant their use in lefininfj minor lifeareas.
In the Orthoptera however Mr. J.
A. G Relin tells me that certain species seem to conform quite well to the regions I have defined above.
OrphuIcUa oUvocca Clinoccphalus clcgans and Chorthippus curiipennis are found along the coast strip but not in the Tine Barreas while Chloealtis conspcrsa Paroxya scudderi Melanoplus imptidicus and .1.
stonci are restricted to the latter region.
In West Jersey there are a number of species common to the hilly region to the north and west and unknown in the Pine Barrens just such a condition as we find among the plants.
December 3.
Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
Mr. WilHam S. Vaiix reported his observations made during the past summer on the glaciers of British Columbia.
December 17.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
The following were ordered to be printed  
