CONTENTS, For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index.
BoYER, Charles S. A new species of Cymatopleiira (Plate XXVIII), " 554 Brown, Arthur Erwin, 8c.D.
Generic types of Nearcfic Reptilia and Amphibia, 112 Calvert, Philip P., Ph.D.
The composition and ecological relations of the Odonate Fauna of ^Mexico and Central America (Plate XXVI), 460 Chainiberlix, Ralph V. Animal names and anatomical terms of the Goshute Indians, 73 Revision of North American Spiders of the Family Lycosidse (Plates VIII-XXIII), 158 Colton, Harold Sellers.
How Fulgur and Sycotypiis eat Oysters, Mussels and Clams (Plates I-V), .... 3 Some effects of environment on the growth of Limna^a columella Say, ' 410 Fowler, Henry W. Notes on Sharks, 52 A synopsis of the Cyprinidai of Pennsylvania (Plate XX^' II), 517 Harshberger, John W., Ph.D.
The directive influence of Fight on the growth of Forest I^lants (Plates XXIA', XX^') , .
449 IsHiKAWA, Chiyomatsu, Ph.D.
Description of a new species of Scjualoid Shark from Japan, 71 Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr.,\ Ph.D.
Remarks on Prof. Chamberlin's revision of North American Lycosidse, .
513 ^looRE, J. Percy.
Some Polychsetous Annelids of the Northern Pacific Coast of North America.
321 Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D.
Notes on Succinea ovalis Sa}and S.obliqua Say (Plate VII), 45 On the classification of Scalpelliform Barnacles, .... 104 iii IV J CONTENT.S.
A comparison of the Land-Snail Fauna of Korea with the Faunas of Japan and China, 452 On the teeth of Hawaiian species of Hehces, 560 Clausihidse of the Japanese Empire, XII (Plates XXX, XXXI, XXXII), 561 PiLSBRY, Henry A., Sc.D., and Y. Hirase.
Xew Land and Fresh-water Mollusca of the Japanese Empire, ... 31 New Land Shells of the Chinese Empire — I, 37 New Land Mollusca of the Japanese Empire, 586 PiLSBRY, Henry A., and E. G. Yanatta.
Notes on Polinices didyma, with description of a new Australian species (Plate XXIX), 555 Rehn, James A. G. Acrididae (Orthoptera) from Sao Paulo, Brazil, with descriptions of one new genus and three new species, 12 Rehn, James A. G., and IMorgan Hebard.
An Orthopterological Reconnoissance of the Southwestern United States.
Part I : Arizona, 365 Snyder, John Otterbein.
Description of TrachA^^terus scleniris, a new species of Ribbon-Fish from Monterey Bay, California, 319 Stone, Witmer.
^lethods of recording and utilizing BirdMigration Data, 128 Recent additions to our knowledge of the Flora of Southern New Jersey, -157 A review of the Genus Piaya Lesson, 492 True, Frederick W. Remarks on the fossil Cetacean Rha1> dosteus latiradax Cope (Plate YI), 24 Wellman, F. Creighton, M.D.
On the Meloida?
of Angola, .
.
600 Wellman, F. Creighton, M.D., and Walther Horn, M.D.
On the Cicindehnpe of Angola, 505 Young, Robert T. Notes on the distribution of Colorado Mammals, with description of a new species of Bat (Eptesicus pallidus) from Boulder, ....... 403 OF THE OF 1908.
January 7.
The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., in the Chair.
One hundred and six persons present.
The Hayden Memorial Geological ^ledaP was presented to Charles D. Walcott, LL.D.
The presentation address was made by Dr. Persifor Frazer and responded to by the recipient of the award.
A reception was tendered Dr. Walcott at the close of the formal proceedings.
The following Standing Committees were appointed by the Council to serve during the ensuing year : Finance.
— John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B.
!\Iorris, Horatio C. Wood, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr., Treasurer.
Publications.
— Henry Skinner, M.D., Hemy A, Pilsbry, Sc.D,, Witmer Stone, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Editor and Treasurer.
Library.— Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Hemy Tucker, M.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., Benjamin Sharp, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr. ' For an illvistration of the remodelled Hayden Medal see Report of Recording Secretary, Proceedings, 1907, p. 564.
I Instruction.— Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris, Phihp P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Dr. C. Newlin Peirce.
Committee of Council on By-Laws.
— Arthur E. Brown, Sc.D., Thos.
H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader and Chas.
B. Penrose, M.D.
The President is, ex officio, a member of all Standing Committees.
January 21, The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Ninety-seven persons present.
The deaths of Jacob Reese, ]\Iarch 25, 1907, and of ]\Iiss Adeline Try on, January 20, 1908, members, were reported.
Dr. Casey A.
Wood made an illustrated communication on the eyes and eyesight of birds.
(No abstract.)
Dr. William J. Sinclair was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed : HOW FTJLGUR AND 8YC0TYPUS EAT OYSTERS, MUSSELS AND CLAMS.
BY HAROLD SELLERS COLTON.
Since observations on the habits of Prosobranch moUusks are fragmentary and few, I embraced an opportunity of studying Fulgur carica, Fulgur perversa and Sycotypus canaliculatus under conditions as nearly natural as one can hope to have in a laboratorj^ located far from the sea.
j\Iost of the observations were carried out in the Vivarium of the University of Pennsylvania; these were supplemented by studies on fresh material under more natural conditions at the Fisheries Laboratory at Woods Hole.^ The individuals studied in Philadelphia had been in captivity a long time.
All had been there a year and many several 3^ears.
The Fulgur carica had come from Woods Hole and the Jersey coast.
F. perversa I had brought up from Clearwater, Florida, two years and a half before.
Of these latter none had died a natural death during that time.
The salt water aquarium in which they were confined was about five feet wide and eleven feet long.
There was three feet of water over the greater part, but a shallow beach at one end.
On the beach I was accustomed to place oysters that I kept as a stock to feed the animals in this tank.
Every week I chopped up an oyster or two and distributed the juice and fragments all over the tank.
This stimulated the Fulgurs and Sycotypi to activity and to make frequent raids on the Hving oysters on the beach.
This led me to inquire into the kind of food, the amount of food, and method of feeding of these gasteropods.
There is but one actual observation on the manner of feeding of these mollusks that I have been able to discover.
Stimpson (1860), in speaking of Sycotypus, said: "In eating (it) applies end of proboscis to the clam's foot, and with a sudden jerk of the lingual ribbon inward and sidelong takes a strip of flesh."
The "impression" that most persons hold with reference to the manner of eating and the habits of the Sycotypus and Fulgur is expressed by Herrick (1906) : " Since this animal is a great pest to the oystermen and clam-diggers, .... it is of some interest .... to know .... ' I am deeply indebted to the ITnited States Commissioner of Fisheries for the use of a table at the Woods Hole Laboratory, to Dr. F. B. Sumner, the Director, for many favors, and particularly Dr. E. G. Conklin for reading the manuscript of this paper and for many helpful suggestions.
how this gasteropod accomplishes its destructive work of boring through the shells of oysters and clams and rasping out their soft contents by means of the file-like tongue."
Although this is in the introduction, he does not mention again how Sycotypus bores through shells and had only the "impression" that they did bore.
Ingersoll (1884) has given the most detailed description of the food and the manner of taking it that I have been able to discover.
"The food of the conch {Fulgur or Sycotypus)," says he, "being mainly the flesh of other mollusks, its method of killing them is one of brute strength, since it is unprovided with the silicious, file-like tongue by means of which the small drills set at naught the shelly armor of their victims.
The conch is a greater savage than that.
Seizing upon the unfortunate oyster, unable to run away, he envelops its shell in the concave under surface of his foot, and by just such muscular action as you would employ in grasping an object in the palm of your fist, crushes the shell into fragments and feasts at leisure on the flesh thvis exposed.
One planter thought one Winkle {Fulgur and Sycotypus) was capable of killing a bushel of oysters in a single hour.
They do not confine themselves to oysters altogether, of course; any mollusk or other animal sluggish or weak enough to be broken up suffers from their predacity.
I was told in New Jersey by an intelligent man that a conch would even pull a razor clam out of its burrow and devour it.
If this be true the soft shell clam also falls a victim to the same marauder.
The Quahog is generally safe."
I quote this because my observations and experiments unfortunately contradict so many of these interesting statements.
My experiments as to the kind of food were restricted to live Lamellibranchs, because I never was able to observe them eat chopped oyster or chopped meat.
Chopped oyster certainly stimulates them and perhaps they will eat it.
I cannot tell.
Table I gives the results of my studies at Woods Hole and Philadelphia, (x) indicates that the particular bivalve was fed to the conch and eaten; (o) indicates that it was fed to the conch and not eaten ; and (-) means that the particular form was not supplied with the indicated food.
Table I. Sycotypus.
F. carica.
F. perversa.
Mya X X Venus x x Unsis X Modiola x Mytilus X X Ostrea.. .. x x x At Woods Hole Sycotypus and F. carica were found only at places where Ensis (razor clams) were abundant.
I could not find them on any other beach.
Although I did not observe Sycotypus eating Ensis, I think there is every reason to suppose that they do.
The experiments on the amount of food are too few to be definite.
The results, such as they are, are expressed in Table II.
(x) indicates present but not eaten, (o) indicates not present.
Table II.
No.
Conch.
Days.
Ostrea.
Mya.
Venus.
Mytilus.
Modiola.
4 Sycotypus 10 x 13 x 7 x 4 F. carica 10 x x 2 3 1 3 F. perversa 42 7 4 F. carica 42 2 Sycotypus 42 4 1 Sycotypus 2 4 Very often one individual would eat a couple of clams or 03"sters in a day, but as a rule the meals were far apart.
Notwithstanding most persons' "impressions," it is highly improbable that these mollusks ever bore through Lamellibranch shells.
I have never seen a hole that would fit their proboscis, nor does the wearing of the teeth on the odontophore indicate that they were worn down against a hard substance.
Plate I, figs.
3-4 show the median tooth of Urosalphinx which bores rapidly through the shells of mussels.
The former shows a tooth before being worn and the latter a tooth worn down.
These teeth compared with a similar series, Plate I, figs.
1 and 2, showing F. carica, suggest that there are two methods of wear.
In Urosalphinx the teeth are worn evenly off so that a straight line will join the tops.
The large teeth are worn level with the short ones.
In Fidgiir, however, the teeth are broken off in almost any way.
Examinations of the radulse of Nassa ohsoleta, Nassa trivittata, Lunatia and Purpura lapillus seem to substantiate the view.
But with the exception of Purpura and perhaps Nassa ohsoleta, too little is known how they take their food to render any general conclusions tenable.
In the case of these last two, Purpura, which has a radula worn like Urosalphinx, has been observed to bore (Wilcox, 1905) ; and A^assa, with wear such as I have described for Fulgur, has never been seen to bore, but will crawl between the valves of Mya, wedging the valves apart, and devour the flesh (Dimon, 1905).
The other method of attack (I.ngersoll, 1884) is by breaking the shell.
As described by Ingersoll this is utterly impossible.
However, both F. perversa and F. carica do injure the shell of Venus mercenaria (Quahog); and, although they leave marks on the shell of Mytilus (mussel) and perhaps Ostrea, the shell of Mya (soft shell clam) is left without a scratch.
In the case of Sycotypus eating oysters, I have been able to watch the whole process from the beginning to the end without interruption, so I will take this as my first example.
It will be an account of the behavior of a single individual.
The Sycotypus had not been fed for a month or so and was buried in the gravel.
To stimulate, I added some very finely chopped-up oyster to the aquarium.
When it started to crawl out of the gravel, a few minutes after I added the oyster juice, I placed some live oysters in the aquarium with it.
It attacked one of the oysters five minutes after I placed them with it.
Fifty minutes afterward it left the empty shell.
Going a foot to another oyster, it began to attack it twenty minutes after it left the first one.
The Sycotypus crawled on top of the oyster, which closed its valves.
The conch waited two minutes when the oyster opened its valves (Plate II, fig.
7).
Rotating its shell on the axis of the columella through an angle of 70°, it thrust its own shell between the valves of the oyster and introduced its proboscis between the shells (Plate II, fig.
8).
Forty minutes later it left the empty shell.
Sycotypus does not wedge the shells of Mya apart, because it can get at the soft parts without doing so, since the valves gap slightly (Plates II and III, figs.
11, 12).
To test this I introduced an oyster that had had three-quarters of an inch broken from the margins of both valves on the end away from the hinge so that the valves appeared to gap.
I found that Sycotypus attacked this one in the same manner as it attacked Mya and did not wedge the .shells apart (Plate I, fig.
6).
Fulgur eating Venus is a much more complicated case.
The conch {Fulgur perversa or F. carica) grasps the Venus in the hollow of its foot (Plate IV, fig.
13), bringing the margin of the Veiius shell against its own shell margin.
B}^ contracting the columellar muscle it forces the margins of the shells together, which results in a small fragment being chipped from the shell of Venus.
This is repeated many times and, finally, the crack between the valves is enlarged to a width of 3 mm.
or more (text fig.).
The proboscis is normally about 5 mm.
to 8 mm.
in diameter There are three ways in which it may get at the animal.
First, it may flatten out its proboscis so that it will go through the crack; secondly, it may pour in a secretion between the valves which kills the clam.
1908. and, thirdly, it may wedge its shell between the valves of the Venus.
By contracting its coliimellar muscle it may actually wedge the valves apart.
Venus is much more sensitive to mechanical stimuli than is Ostrea.
Venus never opens its valves of itseK when it is in the grasp of a Fulgur, while Ostrea, after the first shock, opens wide its valves as if no danger were near.
Fulgur and Sycotypus often break their own shell when opening oysters and clams, and this accounts no doubt for the irregular growth lines seen on their shells.
This method of inserting the margin of a gasteropod between the valves, of a Lamellibranch has been noticed before.
Francois (1890) Quahog shell clipped by Fulgur.
briefly reports that Murex fortispinna has a special tooth on the margin of its aperture for the purpose of inserting between the valves of Area, It may be that this manner of attacking the soft parts of bivalves is a very common habit of Prosobranch mollusks.
All writers recognize Fulgur and Sycotypus as pests to the oyster men.
How many oysters will be destroyed will depend on the average number eaten in a given time.
Although I have found them to eat two oysters one day and two the next, there follows a long rest period where the individual remains buried in the sand — sometimes for days, sometimes for months.
Notwithstanding that Ingersoll (1884) says, "It is needless to say that they do not burrow at all,"1 find that they are buried about 65 per cent, of the time, the tip end of the black siphon alone projecting above the sand — 5 mm.
— a most inconspicuous object.
The following table gives the records of the activity of nine individuals for a period of six weeks.
It indicates the periods of rest and activity expressed in days.
Plate V shows these periods of rest and activity distributed in space.
Table III.
Gasteropod.
Days active.
Days buried.
Days quiet.
Days of food.
Sycotypus No.
2 21 16 3 2 No.
10 2 38 1 F, carica No.
3 9 25 6 No.
4 5 34 1 No.
5 11 14 No.
6 10 4 26 F. perversa No.
1 7 29 4 1 No.
7 10 30 2 No.
8 7 33 1 These experiments were carried on in Philadelphia and so w^ere not under perfectly natural conditions.
They show how far apart the meal times are.
During these experiments F. carica never ate.
If these observations reflect at all the normal habits of the individual, they cannot, I think, be a very serious oyster pest.
Sycotypus and Fulgur do not always react to their food in the same manner, but they react to different Lamellibranchs in a way best suited to getting at the soft parts of the animals.
Therefore the behavior is adaptive (Jennings, 1906, 1907).
Another question is, are these organisms intelligent?
Jennings (1906) defines intelligence as a modification of behavior in accordance with experience.
The usual way to test this is by habit formation (Jennings, 1907).
"(1) The organism must be presented with a problem to be solved.
(2) The organism must 'try' to solve the problem in several different ways.
(3) It must be able to solve the problem in but one or a few ways."
In accordance with these criteria I presented the mollusks with a simple maze problem with oysters as "bait."
Although without food for a week, they buried themselves in the sand and did not move again.
At the end of two weeks I discontinued the experiment.
To show the normal behavior of these animals I plotted their movements for a period of six Aveeks.
This gave no results except those embodied in the earlier part of this paper.
The diagrams show, however, how very sluggish these mollusks are.
It is probably impossible by any of the ordinary methods to determine the intelhgence of Sycotypiis and Fulgur.
The solution of this problem awaits some ingenious future investigator.
Summary.
1.
Fulgur and Sycotypus are very hardy and hve well in caiotivity.
2.
Fulgur probably attacks any Lamellibranch.
3.
Sycotypus will attack any except Venus.
4.
Oysters are eaten in less than an hour.
Clams in from an hour to an hour and a half.
Quahogs from seven hours to three days.
5.
They do not bore shells with the radula.
6.
They open shells of oysters by wedging their own shell between the valves, and tear out the flesh with their radula.
They probably treat Quahogs in the same way.
7.
Some shells are injured in the process, depending on the amount of gap and the sensitiveness of the organism to mechanical stimuli.
8.
Their meals are far between.
9.
They spend their time between meals buried in the sand.
10.
They may not be as serious a pest to the oj^stermen as previously reported.
11.
Their behavior is adaptive.
As yet we have no proof that these animals are intelligent.
Literature.
1S95.
Cooke.
Cambridge Xat Hist., Vol.
Ill, p. 60.
1905.
DiMON, A. C. Cold Spring Harbor Monographs, V, pp.
31-36.
1890.
Francois.
Arch.
E.rp.G., (2), IX,p.
2-0).
1870.
Gould.
Invertebrata of Mass., 2d.
ed., bj'^ W. G. Binney.
1906.
Herrick, J. C. jMeclianism of the Odontophoral apparatus in Sycotypus canaliculatus, -tHK .Vo^, Vol.
XL, p. 707.
1884.
Ingersoll, E. Fisheries Industries of the U. S., Section I, p. 694.
1906.
Jennings, H. S. Behavior of the Lower Organisms, p. 334.
1907.
Jennings, H. S. Behavior of the Starfish Asterias forreri, U. of Cal.
Pub.
in Zool, Vol.
IV, No.
2, p. 155.
1860.
Stimpson.
Check List, p. 6.
1882.
Tryon, G. W. Structural and Systematic Conchology, p. 137.
1905.
Wilcox, M. A.
Biology of Acmsea testudinahs.
Am.
Nat., May, 1905, p. 325. r Description of Plates I-V. Figs.
1 and 2 were drawn with the aid of a camera lucida and magnified about 72 diameters.
Figs.
3 and 4 were drawn with a camera lucida and magnified about 270 times.
The succeeding figures were drawn free-hand from living animals with the exception of figs.
7 and 8, which are semi-diagrammatic.
They are f natural size.
Plate I.
— Fig.
1.
— Median tooth of Fulgur carica (unused).
Fig.
2.
— ^Aledian tooth of Fulgur carica (worn).
Fig.
3.
— Median tooth of Urosaiphinx (unworn).
Fig.
4.
— Median tooth of Urosaiphinx (worn).
Fig.
5.
Sycolypus eating an oyster viewed from above.
Fig.
6.
— Sycotypus eating an oyster viewed from side.
Tlie oyster had had the end toward the conch broken for about f inch.
Plate II.
— Fig.
7.
— Sycotypus on top of oyster (semi-diagrammatic).
Fig.
8.
— The same a few seconds afterward, showing the margin of the Sycotypus shell wedging apart the shells of the oyster.
Fig.
9.
— Sycotypus wedging apart the valves of an oyster.
Plate III.
— Fig.
10.
— Sycotypus in search of food.
Fig.
11.
— Sycotypus eating Mya.
Plate IV.
— Fig.
12.
— Sycotypus eating Mya.
Fig.
13.
— F. carica eating Venus, showing how it holds the shell.
Plate V. — Diagrams illustrating the wanderings of F. perversa, F. carica and S. canaliculatus during a period of six weeks.
Each square of the diagram represents one square foot.
Each of the diagrams represent an aquarium of salt water five feet by eleven feet.
The plottings w^ere made daily.
The Roman numerals indicate the identification number of the individual welks.
Arabic numerals indicate days at one spot, (o) means an oyster eaten.
(B) indicates that the indiAidual was buried.
February 4.
Dr. William P. Wilson in the Chair.
Thirty persons present.
The Pubhcation Committee reported the reception of a paper entitled "Acrididse (Orthoptera) from Sao Paulo, Brazil, with ■descriptions of one New Genus and three New Species," by James A, G. Rehn (January 27).
WiTMER Stone made a communication on the geographical distribution of plants and animals in Southern New Jerse3^ (No abstract.)
February 18.
Arthur Erwin Brow^n, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Ninety persons present.
The reception of a paper entitled "Remarks on the Fossil Cetacean Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope," by Frederick W. True (February 18), was reported by the Publication Committee.
Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., made a communication on the general results of nine years' study of the dragon-flies of Mexico and Central America for the Biologia Centrali Americana.
(No abstract.)
Burton Chance, M.D., was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be published : ^ ACRIDID^ (ORTHOPTERA) FROM SAO PAULO, BRAZIL, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF ONE NEW GENUS AND THREE NEW SPECIES.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The material treated in the following paper represents the Pyrgoinorphinse and Locustinae of a collection of Orthoptera made at several localities in the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil, by Mr. Adolph Hempel, and presented to the Academy by the author.
The Acridinse belonging to this collection has already been treated, in conjunction with other South American material of that subfamily,, in a paper in these Proceedings.^ PYRGOMORPHIN.E.
OMMEXECHA Serville.
Ommexecha servillei Blanchard.
18.37.
Ommexecha Servillei Blanchard, Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France, V, p. 613, PI.
XXII, figs, 2 and 3.
[Pro\ance of Corriente.s, Argentina.]
Sao Paulo.
September 13 and 19, 1900.
(Hempel.)
Three c7, three 9 .
Reboucas.
September 26, 1900.
(Hempel.)
One c?, one 9.
Previous records for this species are Porto Allegre, Rio Grande do Sul (Karsch), Sierra Geral, Santa Catharina (Karsch), Sao Paulo (Bruner), Matto Grosso (Karsch), Brazil, Asuncion and San Bernardino.
Paraguay (Bruner).
LOCUSTIN.E.
< TROPINOTUS Serville.
Tropinotus affinis Bruner.
1906.
Tropinotus affinis Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 646.
[Sapucay, Paraguay.]
Jundiahy.
April 17, 1898; September 10, 1899.
(Schrottky.)
Two d', two 9.
The bowed lateral carina3 of the pronotum appear to be the chief diagnostic character of this species, unless this is also shared b}^ T. scabripes Stal, which has not been examined.
> Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
10-50.
EL^IOCHLOEA St^l.
Elaeochlora arcuata n. sp.
Types: d and 9 ; Jundiahy, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil.
March 1, 1899 (d').
(Schrottky.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This peculiar species belongs to the section of the genus containing E. trilineata and viridicata (Serville) and humilis and pulchella Rehn, as well as the rather aberrant picticollis (Gerstaecker).
It is readily separated from any of these species by the well elevated and longitudinally arcuate median carina of the pronotum, the tubercles of the pronotum also being blunter and fewer than in the allied species.
The male can also be immediately separated from the above species, except picticollis, by the short acute tegmina.
Size rather large; form of the female quite robust, of the male slenFig.
\,—ElaoMora arcuata n. sp.
Lateral view of male type.
(X 2h.)
derer.
Head with the occiput rounded ; fastigium subhorizontal, very slightly excavated, longer than broad, the apex slightly acute-angulate, the apical margins slightly arcuate in the male; angle of the fastigium when viewed from the lateral aspect narrowly rounded into the moderately (9) or considerably (d") retreating face; frontal costa very much narrowed at its junction with the fastigium, slightly but regularly expanding ventrad to the clypeus, sulcate except in the very narrow dorsal portion; eyes of the male elhptical, oval, of the female ovate; antennee not complete.
Pronotum rugoso-punctate, with the prozona tectate, the metazona with the disk flattened and the carina considerably elevated, the outline of the carina when viewed from the lateral aspect being very slightly arcuate in the female, very considerably so in the male; cephalic margin obtuse-angulate, slightly more marked in the male than in the female; caudal angle aciiteangulate, the apex sharp and the margins slightly arcuato-emarginate ; lateral shoulders marked on the metazona, a continuation descending obliquely ventro-cephalad on the prozonal portion of the lateral lobes prozona of the disk with accessory lateral shoulders, which are less marked than the primary ones, converging from the principal transverse sulcus to the cephalic margin, all the lateral shoulders more marked in the male than in the female ; transverse sulci three in number, all cutting the median ridge, but only the caudal one doing so deeply; greatest median width of the pronotal disk contained about twice in the length; lateral lobes of the pronotum with the ventral margin obtuse-angulate.
Tegmina of the male exceeding the length of the pronotum by about half the length of the head, of the female about equal to the length of the metazona and half of the prozona ; shape of the male tegmina sublanceolate, of the female tegmina sub-rhomboid, the greatest width of the male tegmina contained two and a half times in their length, that of the female tegmina contained once and two-thirds in their length.
Wings much smaller than the tegmina, not functional in either sex.
Prosternal spine erect, conical; interspace between the mesosternal lobes very slightly transverse, the angles of the lobes broadly rounded; interspace between the metasternal lobes distinctly arcuate transverse.
Abdomen compressed in both sexes, distinctly carinate dorsad in the male; supra-anal plate of the male acuteangulate, distinctly sulcate mesad, the sulcus narrowed meso-caudad ; cerci of the male very small, simple, styliform ; subgenital plate compressed, produced, rostrate, the apex elevated and slender.
Cephalic and median Hmbs moderately robust in the male, rather weak in the female.
Caudal femora about one and one-third (9) or one and two-thirds (d^) the length of the pronotum, rather slender, tapering, no appreciable pregenicular constriction, dorsomedian carina sparsely serrato-dentate, pattern of the pagina rather irregular and not deeply impressed; caudal tibiae about equal to the femora in length, armed on the external margin with ten to twelve spines, on the internal with nine to ten spines, those of the internal margin longer than those on the external; tarsi distinctly depressed.
General color olive-green becoming brownish on some areas and brighter green on others, d^.
Face dull oil green, gense and occiput of the general color aside from a dull broad subequal medio-longitudinal bar of russet on the vertex and occiput, bordered laterad by poorly defined blackish areas; eyes burnt umber.
Pronotum veiy dull olivegreen dorsad, the median carina and angles marked obscurely with burnt sienna; lateral lobes with considerable parrot green mesad, the cephalic and ventral margins narrowly and the caudal margins rather broadly margined with ochraceous-buff, the marginal color blending into the general color.
Tegmina blackish, broadl}^ margined, except toward the apex where the paler color narrows until completely absent at the verj^ apex, with ochraceous-buff, principal veins of the median portion of the tegmina apple green.
Limbs distinctly brownish, the caudal tibiae and tarsi vinaceous-cinnamon, tibial spines wholly black on the internal margin, tipped with black on the external margin.
9 .
Head bice-green with a very pale ochraceous-buff occipital and f astigial band as in the male, which band, however, has the lateral defining bars poorly indicated; eyes vandyke brown; antennae pansy purple with the proximal joint of the color of the head.
Pronotum generally more oil green than olive-green; median carina marked with a bar of madder brown which narrows caudad and is poorly outlined cephalad; ventral and caudal margins of the lateral lobes with very faint and poorly defined light margins.
Tegmina oil green with a pale margin similar to the male, in addition to which the green area is outlined by a heavy pencilling of black, quite distinct on all but the ventro-caudal portion, while the sutural margin has a very fine black edging to its proximal half; principal veins of the green area apple green.
Limbs oil green tending toward apple green, caudal tarsi marked with maroon purple dorsad, caudal tibiae with the spines as in the male.
Measurements.
d ?
Length of body, 29.2 mm.
52 mm.
Length of pronotum, ILl " 18.6 " Median width of disk of pronotum, .... 5.5 " 8.2 " Length of tegmen, 12.8 " 13.8 " Greatest width of tegmen, 5.4 '' 8 " Length of caudal femur, 17.9 " 24.2 " A paratypic female has also l^een examined.
It differs from the female type only in the tegmina being more produced and nearer to the type seen in the male.
CHROMACRIS Walker.
Chromacris miles (Drury).
Jundiahy.
(Schrottky).
One 6^.
This individual has the lighter color of the wings rich yellow.
Chromacris nuptialis (Gerstaecker).
1873.
Romalea nuptialis Gerstaecker, Stett.
Entom.
Zeit., XXXIV, p. 185.
[Salto Grande,^ Brazil.]
Jimdiahy.
January 20, 1899 (9).
(Schrottky.)
One d", one 9.
The markings of the tegminal veins in this species remind one of the similar pattern noticed in the otherwise very different C. icterus.
ZONIOPODA St&l.
Zoniopoda tarsata (Serville).
Jmidiahy.
January 28, 1899.
(Schrottky.)
One d^.
This specimen agrees fully with the original description and two Rio Grande do Sul specimens determined as tarsata, received from the late Dr. Saussure.
LEPTYSMA St&l.
Leptysma gracilis Bruner.s 1906.
[Leptysma] gracilis Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 658.
[Sao Paulo, Brazil.]
Sao Paulo.
September 5-19, 1900.
(Hempel.)
Six d, four 9 .
This series shows an appreciable amount of variation in the form of the fastigium, some having the angle more acute than others.
Leptysma filiformis (Serville).
Sao Paulo.
September 1 and 7, 1900.
(Hempel.)
Three 9 .
PARACOKNOPS Giglio-Tos.
Paracornops longipenne (De Geer)?
1773.
Acrydium longipenne DeGeer, Mem.
d'Hist.
Ins., Ill, p. 501, PI.
42, fig.
9.
[Surinam.]
Sao Paulo.
September 14, 1900.
(Hempel.)
Five d^, one 9 .
We have followed Bruner^ in considering this form the same as DeGeer's species, the correctness of which association can be determined definitely only by the examination of Surinam material.
The specimens in hand are brownish instead of greenish as described by DeGeer, but as far as can be determined from his figure they do not differ structurally, and in dimensions they fully agree with those given by him.
^ One of two localities, Salto Grande, Minas Geraes or Salto Grande, Sao Paulo, probablj' tlie latter.
3 The five females from Sapucay, Paraguay, recorded by the author as L. filiformis {Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila., 1907, p. 180) are found on re-examination to be this species.
The absence of male individuals accounts for the error in >determination.
■'Froc.
V. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 662.
OMALOTETTIX Bruner.
Omalotettix signatipes Bruner.
Sao Paulo.
September 1 to 14, 1900.
(Hempel.)
Nine 9 .
These specimens are uniformly, though slightly, smaller than Chapada, Brazil, and Sapucay, Paraguay, females, but in no other respect do they appear to differ from topotypes.
H0MAL0SAPARUS6 n. gen. A member of the Xiphiolce and related to Saparus Giglio-Tos and Xiphiola Bolivar, differing from the former in the less compressed general form, in the form of the frontal costa, the less produced head, the less compressed pronotum, the more rounded tegmina, the more robust limbs and the produced subgenital plate ; differing from Xiphiola n the more compressed form, in the absence of distinct lateral angles to the pronotum, the absence of any costal projection between the antennae, in the broader tegmina, in the narrower interspace between the mesosternal lobes and in the produced subgenital plate and slender cerci.
Vertex ascending; fastigium rectangulate ; frontal costa not projecting between the antennae, becoming obsolete ventrad of the ocellus; face declivent; eyes acute ovoid, hardly projecting; antennae heavy, depressed, very slightly expanded proximad.
Pronotum rugoso-punctate; dorsal transverse sulci three in number; median carina distinct; caudal angle of the disk subrectangulate; lateral angles without carinas.
Tegmina exceeding the apex of the abdomen, rather broad, greatest width in the distal third ; intercalary vein absent.
Prosternal spine erect, slender, apex blunt; interspace between the mesosternal lobes very distinctly longer than broad ; interspace between the metasternal lobes very narrow.
Subgenital plate of the male produced, acuminate, keeled.
Caudal femora moderately inflated; caudal tibiae with nine spines on the lateral margins.
Type.
— H. canonicus n. sp.
Homalosaparus canonicus n. sp.
Type: 6"; Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 13, 1900.
(Hempel.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Size medium; form distinctly compressed ; surface ruguloso-punctate.
Head with the occiput regularly ascending to the interocular region which, with the fastigium, is subhorizontal; interocular region slightly more than twice the wddth of the interantennal portion of the frontal costa; fastigium broadly trigonal, the apex with a short, distinct, median, longitudinal sulcus; angle of the fastigium and vertex, when seen from the lateral aspect, rounded rectangulate, the facial line being 5 'OfiaTiOQ, resembling, and Saparus, a generic name.
2 18 [Feb. subperpendicular to a short distance ventrad of the insertion of the antennae, then considerably declivent; lateral foveolse indistinct, punctate; frontal costa slightly constricted dorsad and obsolete from a point ventrad of the ocellus where it is slightly narrowed, entire length impresso-punctate; eyes acute dorsad, strongly elongate-ovoid Fig.
2.
— Homalosaparus canonicus n. gen. and sp.
Lateral view of type.
( X 2^.)
and somewhat longer than the infraocular portion of the gense, when viewed from the dorsum the eyes are seen to be very slightly prominent; antennae about as long as the head and pronotum together, heavy, distinctly depressed, very slightly expanded proximad and with a very slight expanded distal clavation.
Pronotum about half again as long as the dorsal surface of the head ; cephalic margin subtruncate with an extremely slight median emargination, caudal margin subrectangulate, apex finely angulate; median carina low, distinct, severed three times; lateral shoulders distinct on the metazona, rounded and descending ventro-cephalad on the prozona; lateral lobes about as deep on their greatest dorsal length, ventral margin rotundato-emarginate cephalad, arcuate caudad.
Tegmina exceeding .the tips of the caudal femora by about the length of the head; greatest width at about three-fourths the length from the proximal extremity and contained about four and a half times in the tegminal length: costal margin with a very considerable rounded lobe, distad of which the margin is straight to the point of greatest width and arcuate thence to the apex, sutural margin straight except for a slight proximal arcuation, apical region obFig.
3.
— Homalosaparus canonicus n. gen. andsp.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum.
( X 2i) liquely truncate with the apex rounded rectangulate.
Wings fullydeveloped.
Prosternal spine erect, rather slender, hardly tapering, bluntly pointed.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes broad cephalad, sharply narrowed to about a third the cephalic width, then slightly and regularly expanded with the caudal angles of the lobes rounded, the whole shape of the interspace being like a letter X with the upper portion abnormally expanded and the lower portion drawn out; interspace between the metasternal lobes narrow, inverted, cuneiform.
Abdomen moderately compressed ; supra-anal plate produced subequal in width in the proximal half, distinctly narrowed mesad and thence arcuate to the rather blunt apex; cerci slender, subequal in the proximal half, roundly emarginate on the dorsal margin in the distal half, the apex blunt, the distal fourth seen to be distinctly arcuate mesad when viewed from the dorsum; subgenital plate acute scaphiform, the apex acute-angulate, and the lateral portions of the plate distinctly constricted proximad, ventral aspect with a distinct median keel.
Cephalic and median hmbs rather slender.
Caudal femora about two-thirds the length of the tegmina, the greatest width contained about foiu* times in the length, dorsal carinse serrato-dentate, pattern of the paginae well impressed, genicular lobes acute; caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, lateral margin with nine spines one of which is quite small and apical, internal margin with ten spines, one apical; caudal tarsi comparatively short and with the pulvilli large.
General color prout's brown, tawn3''-olive ventrad and tending toward seal brown on the dorsum of the head, disk of the pronotum and proximal portion of the tegmina.
Head with the face washed with walnut brown, several pale bars crossing between the labrum and median ocellus; labrum ochre; sides of the head ventro-caudad of the eyes washed with seal brown; eyes russet; antennae wood brown dorsad, Vandyke brown ventrad with the tip blackish.
Pronotum shghtly touched laterad with walnut brown.
Tegmina sprinkled rather sparingly with small subquadrate maculations of seal brown; angle of the anal field rather pale.
Wings transparent, tinted with pale brownish.
Caudal femora with an obscm-e pregenicular annulus of seal brown, tubercles on the carinse and pattern of the paginae blackish; caudal tibiae with the spines maize yellow with seal brown tips.
Measurernents.
Length of body, 28.2 mm.
Length of pronotum, 6 " Greatest caudal width of pronotum, 4 " Length of tegmen, 24.8 " Length of caudal femur, 15.8 " A series of five paratypic males have also been examined, taken from the first to nineteenth of September, 1900.
In size they show some little variation, and in color there is a tendency in some specimens to a more grayish coloration than in others, while in one specimen the color pattern is much more contrasted than in the type.
Pale bars on the lateral angles of the pronotum are sometimes present, the ventral half of the eye also being suffused with seal brown in some specimens, while the small tegminal maculations frequently show a tendency to associate in oblique transverse bars well defined or much interrupted and from one to three in number.
SCHISTOCEECA St&l.
Schistocerca gratissima n. sp.
Schistocerca lineata (Stoll)?
according to Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, pp.
675, 676 (1906) .« Type: & ; Sao Paulo, Brazil.
September 14, 1900.
(Hempel.)
[Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.]
Fig.
4.
— Schistocerca gratissima n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
(X H.) Alhed to S. 'pollens (Thunberg) but differing in the shorter, blunter fastigium, the lesser space between the eyes, the broader and more truly elliptical eye, the more arcuate facial outline when viewed laterad and the anomalous pink and green coloration.
Size large ; form rather slender.
Head with the occiput considerably elevated and rounded, descending regularly to the fastigium and rounding into the frontal costa; interspace between the eyes slightly exceeding the greatest width of the fastigium; fastigium about as long as broad, considerably excavated; frontal costa slightly constricted • We do not consider the resemblance of StoU's figure of Gryllus (Locusta) lineatus (Natuurl.
Afbeeld.
Besch.
Springh., PI.
XV [B, fig.
57) close enough to specimens of this species to consider them the same.
While in one or two points resemblance exists, in a number of others the discrepancies are very considerable.
StoU's figure appears to us to be a true Locusta (Acridium of authors).
1908.
21 'dorsad, thence of a uniform width to the clypeus, deeply silicate from between the antennse to near the clypeus ; facial outline when viewed from the lateral aspect slightly arcuate; eyes elliptical oval, distinctly longer than the infraocular sulcus; antennae somewhat exceeding the length of the head and pronotum together.
Pronotum rounded dorsad, hardly constricted, not tectate, disk of the metazona slightly flattened; cephalic margin of the disk very slightly angulate with a hardly appreciable median emargination, caudal margin of the disk nearly rectangulate, the apex very broadly rounded, median carina present but not high, cut by three transverse sulci, prozona and metazona subequal in length, the width of the metazona slightly greater than its length, lateral angles not apparent on the prozona, well rounded on the metazona; lateral lobes considerably longer than deep, narrowing ventrad, ventral margin truncate on the caudal half, obliquely emarginate on the cephalic half.
Tegmina exceeding the apex of the abdomen by a distance about equal to the length of the pronotum; costal margin considerably arcuate in the distal third; apex broadlj^ rounded.
Prosternal spine stout, acute, very considerably retrorse ; interspace between the mesosternal lobes longitudinal, subcuneate, the interspace cephalad being nearly as wide as the lobes; metasternal lobes contiguous.
Abdomen somewhat compressed ; cerci of moderate length, the apex somewhat narrower than the base, subtruncate; subgenital plate moderately produced, the apex rather deeply divided.
Caudal femora about reaching to the apex of the abdomen, rather slender, medio-dorsal carina serrate, paginse with the pattern distinctly but not very deeply impressed; caudal tibise with the spines quite long, nine in number on the external and eleven on the internal margins.
General colors oil green, liver brown and salmon-buff.
Head with the face, an infraocular bar and the fastigium and occiput green, remainder salmon-buff; a poorly defined medio-longitudinal occipital pale band present, bordered laterad by poorly defined darker areas; eyes burnt umber; antennae dull pinkish.
Pronotum with the dorsum green with a subequal median bar of vinaceous-rufous ; lateral lobes vinaceous-pink with a broad oblique bar of green.
Mesothoracic and metathoracic epimera green, mesothoracic and metathoracic episterna and ventral portions of the thorax pinkish.
Tegmina with a costal Fig.
5.
— ScJdslocerca gratissima n. sp.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum of type.
(X li) bar of primrose yellow extending over almost the whole of the costal half of the costal field, the greater portion of the margin of this pale area being narrowly edged with maroon, remainder of the tegmina liver brown, the principal veins maroon, several pale areas, caused by the coloration of adventitious veins, distributed over the median portion of the tegmen; anal field with a rather broad longitudinal band of vinaceous-cinnamon.
Wings slightly infuscate.
Cephalic and median limbs buffy washed dorsad with greenish.
Caudal femora with the dorsal half oil green, the ventral half salmon-buff, the division along the middle of the paginse being indicated by a slightly blackish area, genicular arches chestnut; caudal tibiae and tarsi pomegranate purple, the spines maize yellow tipped with black.
Measurements.
Length of body, 49.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 9.5 " Greatest dorsal width of pronotum, 6 " Length of tegmen, 46.2 Length of caudal femur, 25 Two paratypic males in the Academy Collection and one of the same sex from Surinam (V-IX; Fruhstorfer) in the Hebard Collection have been examined.
This series shows a considerable amount of variation in size and some in color.
One Sao Paulo male is about equal to the type in size, the other two specimens being appreciably smaller.
The additional Sao Paulo individuals agree fully with the type in color, while the Surinam male has the greens much deeper, almost french green, and the pink shades almost replaced by yellowish-white, sometimes greenish-yellow, the purplish color of the caudal tibise being weaker and replaced on the ventral surface by oil greenish.
DICHR0PLU8 St&l.
Dichroplus brasiliensis Bruner.
1906.
Dichroplus brasiliensis Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, pp.
678,.
682.
[Victoria, Brazil.]
Espirito Santo, Brazil.
[Hebard Collection.]
One 9 .
Sao Paulo.
September 14, 1900.
(Hempel.)
One 9 .
The pale bars mentioned in the original description are but faintly indicated in these specimens.
SCOTTJSSA Giglio-Tos.
Scotussa brasiliensis Bruner.
1906.
[Scotussa] brasilie7isis Bruner, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXX, p. 689.
[Sao Paulo, Brazil.]
Sao Paulo.
September 7-19, 1900.
(Hempel.)
Six d", four 9.
These specimens agree fully with the original description except in the number of external tibial spines.
In three of the males both tibiae bear eight spines, and another male has eight on one tibiae and nine on the other.
In consequence the presence of nine spines cannot be considered diagnostic.
BEMAEKS ON THE FOSSIL CETACEAN RHABDOSTEUS LATIRADIX Cope.
BY FREDERICK W. TRUE.
The genus and species Rhabdosteus latiradix were first described by Cope in 1867/ and were based on a rostrum from Charles County, Md., near the Patuxent River, collected b}^ James T. Thomas.
Three teeth were also "with much probability" assigned to the species.
Cope remarked: "Joseph T. Thomas, the discoverer of this cetacean, tells me that he has seen portions of the muzzle between two and three feet long."
No fm-ther original information regarding the species appears to have been published until 1890, when Cope published figures of the type specimen, as restored, and of a tooth.
He remarked, however, that the posterior parts of the maxillary and premaxillary bones "were restored from a different specimen from that represented in the rest of the figures.
"^ This "different specimen" was figured by Mr. Case, in 1904, together with still another rostrum^ and the three teeth.
From an examination of the three beaks, which were ver}'kindly placed in my hands for study by the authorities of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and Mr. Witmer Stone, it appears probable that three species are represented.
The rostrum figured by Mr. Case in PI.
15, fig.
1, is the same as that described by Leid}^, in 1869, as probably belonging to Priscodelphinus grandoevus} I have remarked in a previous paper that the reasons for identifying the rostrum with that species are unsatisfactory f but, however that may be, the rostrum certainly does not belong to the same species as the one called Rhabdosteus latiradix by Cope, nor is it likely that it represents the same genus.
The "different specimen" mentioned by Cope in 1890, and figured by Mr. Case in PI.
15, fig.
2, does not, in my opinion, belong to the species latiradix, nor is it at all probable that it belongs to the genus Rhabdosteus.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1867, pp.
132 and 145.
2 Amer.
Nat., 1890, p. 607, fig.
4.
^ Rep. Maryland Geol.
Surv., Miocene, 1904, PI.
15.
* Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., Ser.
2, Vol.
7, 1869, p. 434.
^ Smithsonian Misc.
Colls., Quart.
Issue, 50, Pt.
4, No.
1782, p. 451, January 27, 1908.
Leaving out of consideration for the moment the rostrum originally .assigned to Priscodelphinus grandcevus (Case's PI.
15, fig.
1), I would remark that the restoration of neither of the other two beaks appears to me satisfactory, and that the figure published by Cope in 1890 is even less so.
As regards the latter, by adding a portion from the second beak to the posterior end of the type, Cope has, in my opinion, produced a figure which does not represent any species which has actually existed, and, furthermore, as the portion added is itself incorrect, the erroneousness of the figure is compounded.
It should also be remarked that in the side view (Cope's fig.
4 (la)) the alveoli are much smaller than in the restoration of the type itself.
Cope's note on the genus Rhabdosteus, published in 1890, is as follows : "The muzzle reaches an extraordinary elongation, and for the greater part of its length forms an edentulous cylinder, which resembles the beak of the sword-fishes.
The few teeth which remain at the base of the muzzle are like those of Platanista, with roots compressed so as to be longitudinal, and crowns compressed so as to be transverse, to the axis of the skull.
The R. latiradix^ Cope is not uncommon in the Miocene beds of Maryland.
Its skeleton is unknown.
The nearest approach to Rhabdosteus is made by the genus Stenodelphis."
After repeatedly examining the type specimen (PI.
VI), I am satisfied that this characterization is only partially correct.
The alveoli, as restored, are horizontal.
They are nine in number, -about equal in size, and situated in advance of the depression in the palate in which a lozenge-shaped area of the vomer usually appears.
Hence, they are hardly likely to represent the posterior end of the series.
That the alveoli should be horizontal in the midde of the series is improbable.
No known cetacean has such a conformation, and on anatomical grounds it appears unlikely to occur.
The lower (or inner) margin of the alveoli and the lower half of the various septa are alone preserved, and this only on one side of the jaw.
No distinct trace of the upper (or outer) margin of the alveoli and septa can he seen on the long rod-like superior portions of the maxillae.
The narrow inferior strip of the maxilla, which bears the incomplete alveoli and septa (already mentioned), has been placed outside the larger piece, which forms the proximal end of the palate, and parallel with it.
Such a combination could be justified only on the ground that the maxilla had split lengthwise, and that the outer and inner pieces represent two parts of one and the same bone.
This is improbable, as the inferior surface of the larger piece is convex, while that of the smaller piece is nearly plane.
The smaller piece is, in my opinion, much more likely to have been anterior to the larger piece originally and in line with it, though this would bring the rather large alveoli farther forward than might be expected.
If the superior, rod -like portion of the maxilla were turned outward on its axis, so as to bring the alveoli nearly or quite to a vertical position, a space would apparently be left between the premaxilla and maxilla.
It is not reasonable to suppose that any such space existed originally.
In view of the circumstances mentioned above, I think it is unlikely that the real form of the rostrum can be determined until additional specimens have been collected, or at least until the type specimen has been taken to pieces, so that all the surfaces of the component bones can be examined.
iMIt should be remarked that at the anterior end of the small piece of the maxilla which bears the alveoli there is a space of 19 mm., in which it is obvious that no alveoli existed, and between this and the first alveolus which is traceable is another space of about 25 mm., in which additional alveoli may or may not have existed.
In any case, the fragment in question bears the end of the series of alveoli, and, if it is properly oriented, the anterior end.
As the fragment bearing the alveoli is much shorter than the rod-like portions of the maxillae above it, this confirms to some extent Cope's assertion that the muzzle "in the greater part of its length forms an edentulous cylinder."
Measurements of the type-beak of Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope.
Total length of beak, as restored, 440 mm.
Greatest breadth of the same, as restored, 39 " Length of longest piece of premaxilla preserved, .... 330 " Length of longest piece of maxilla preserved, .... 277 " Breadth of premaxilla at posterior end, 11 " Breadth of premaxilla at anterior end 7 " Breadth of portion of maxilla above the alveoli at posterior end, 9 " Breadth of alveoli at anterior end, 7 " Greatestbreadthof palate between alveoli, as restored, .
.
21 " Length of the palatal portion of the left maxilla, which contains the alveoh, 166 " Breadth of the same at the anterior end, 4 " Breadth of the same at the posterior end 4 " Length of larger palatal fragment (left), which is internal to the preceding in the restoration, 193 " Breadthof the same at the anterior end, 5 " Breadth of the same at the posterior end, 16 " Length occupied by nine alveoli, 103 " Antero-posterior breadth of largest septum between alveoli, .
5 " Antero-posterior breadth of largest alveolus, 7 " •The "different specimen" mentioned by Cope, and figured by Mr. Case,® consists of two pairs of slender elongated bones, of which the outer pair represents the superior rostral portion of the maxillee, and the inner pair the superior rostral portion of the premaxillse.
The maxillae diverge at both anterior and posterior ends, while the premaxillse diverge at the anterior end and convei'ge at the posterior end.
At the latter point, in the median hne, is inserted a piece of bone which may represent a portion of the vomer or mesethmoid.
After examining this specimen, I am of the opinion that it is not properly put together, especially as a space is left between the maxillaeand premaxillae proximally.
The small fragment inserted between the premaxillae does not belong in that position.
It is unsymmetrical and probably represents some portion of the maxilla.
Traces of several alveoli are visible on the under side of the maxillae, at the proximal end.
That these bones are acuminate at this end is due to the fact that both the inner and outer edges are abraded.
The bones should be turned outward somewhat on their axes, so that the lower free border, which is now directed outward, would be directed downward.
This would bring the maxillae into such a position that the upper surface would be horizontal proximally, very much as in Inia.
The two inner bones are probably premaxillae, although at the anterior end the inner surface is plane or.
slightly convex rather than concave.
At the middle, the inner wall is concave, with traces of a continuous longitudinal ridge.
If they are really premaxillae, they should be transposed, that on the right side being placed on the left and vice versa.
At the same time they should be given a quarter turn on their axes, so as to make horizontal the inner surfaces which are now vertical.
This would also cause the bones to diverge at the posterior end, as they do in /ma and most other Odontoceti, leaving space for the prenarial triangle.
Their shape would then correspond closely to that of the same bones in Inia, except that the sides near the proximal end would be somew^hat more nearly vertical.
The specimen probably represents a genus allied to Inia, but it is impossible without more material to determine its relationships accurately.
It does not agree with any European genus of which the rostrum has been figured, nor with any American genus of which the rostrum is available for comparison.
Rep. Maryland Geol.
Surv., Miocene, PI.
15, fig.
[Feb., The third rostrum (text fig.
1), which is that mentioned by Leidy in 1869 under Priscodeliphinv.s (or Tretosphys) grandcevus,'' and also figured by Mr. Case,^ has, as already mentioned, no close relationship with the other two.
It may for the present be considered as representing a species of Priscodelphimis, although, as explained in a previous paper, ^ the reasons for referring it to that genus are not satisf actor}'.
The principal peculiarities of the rostrum are that the premaxillse are much depressed, but not narrowed, anteriorly, that the anterior alveoli are larger than the posterior ones and directed forward, and that the external free border of the maxillae is rounded (see text figs.
2 and 3).
Fig.
2.
— Transverse section of the s.-ime at the posterior end.
(Nat.
size.)
Fig.
3.
— ^Transverse section of the same at the anterior end.
(Nat.
size.)
In figs.
2 and 3 the maxillse are indicated by horizontal lines and the premaxillce bjoblique lines Fig.
1.
— Rostrum of Pris codelphinus sp.?
from the Miocene of Shiloh , N .
J .
Superior surface.
Q nat.
size.)
The three teeth which were provisionally referred to Rhabdosteus by Cope are preserved in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and were examined by me in 1907.
Very good figures of the largest one were published by Cope ' Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., Ser.
2, Vol.
7, 1869, p. 434.
8 Rep. Maryland Geol.
Surv., Miocene, PI.
15, fig.
1.
^ Smithsonian Misc.
Colls., Quarterlv Issue, 50, Pt.
4, No.
1782, p. 451, January 27, 1908. in 1890.^*" This tooth and one other are blackish in color, while the third tooth is yellowish.
The last mentioned is 21 mm.
long, and that figured by Cope 23 mm.
As mentioned by Cope, both crown and root are compressed, the former at right angles to the latter."
This form of tooth occurs in Stenodelphis and in some genera of DelphinidcB.
The crown is slightly recurved.
The base of the crown is somewhat convex, both internally and externally, and is marked off from the root by a distinct constriction, due in part, no doubt, to wear.
Teeth similar to these in size and form, from Baltringen, Wiirtemberg, Germany, were described and figured by Dr. J. Probst in 1886,^^ under the name of Schizodelphis canaliculatus H. von Meyer.
This species is considered identical with S. sulcatus by Dr. Abel, but the teeth of the latter, figured by Dal Piaz,*^ are certainly different, as regards the shape of the crown and the direction of its compression, from those figured by Probst.
Even with allowance for variation, it seems to me probable that they may represent two different species of the genus Schizodelphis.
The principal difference between the teeth assigned to Rhabdosteus and those figured by Probst is that the crown is shorter in the former.
On the whole, it seems probable that the teeth described by Cope belong to the genus Schizodelphis, but this is not a sufficient reason for considering Rhabdosteus synonymous with Schizodelphis, especially in view of the fact that it is uncertain whether the teeth have any direct connection with the type rostrum of Rhabdosteus.
The most that can be said is that the alveoli of Rhabdosteus indicate that the teeth had flattened roots of the same size as those of the teeth which Cope assigned to that genus.
Explanation of Plate VI.
Plate VI.
— Fig.
1.
— Type specimen of Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope.
Superior surface.
Scale p;.
Fig.
2.
— The same.
Left side.
Scale ^.
Fig.
3.
— The same.
Inferior surface.
Scale ^j.
1" Amer.
Nat., 1890, p. 607, fig.
4 (2, 2a, 2b). "
That the anterior and posterior surfaces of the crown are flat is not due to wear. "
Jahreshefte Ver.
Vaterldnd.
Naturkunde W urttemberg , 42, 1SS6, PL 3, figs.
11-14. "
Palceont.
Ital., 9, PI.
31, figs.
6-2S.
March 3.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Sixty-four persons present.
The reception of a paper entitled ''New Land and Fresh-water Mollusca of the Japanese Empire," by H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase (February 28), was reported.
Dr. John W. Harshberger made a communication on his dendrological studies in Italy, wdth special reference to the influence of vegetation on the building up of the islands on which Venice is placed, and on the condition of the timber foundations of the Campanile as revealed at the time of its fall.
(No abstract.)
March 17.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Fifty-nine persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper entitled "New Land Shehs from the Chinese Empire — I/' by H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase (March 11).
E. G. CoxKLiN, Ph.D., made a communication on some phenomena and causes of heredity.
(No abstract.)
The following were ordered to be published : NEW LAND AND FRESHWATER MOLLTISCA OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.
BY H. A. PILSBRY AND Y. HIRASE.
Among other new forms noticed below, the first Pisidium from Japan is described.
It is from the island of Yesso, where the palaearctic element is much better represented than in other parts of the Empire.
FoRMosAN Species.
Cyclophorus formosaensis Nevill.
This is apparently confined, in its typical form, to northern Formosa.
Numerous specimens from Hoozan, EnsuilvO, Sammaipo and Hotawa — places all in the interior below the middle of the island — differ by having a strong keel at the periphery, and may be known as C. /.
interioris n.
subsp., Sammaipo being type locality.
It is this form which we formerly listed as C. turgidus Pfr.
from Hotawa {Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila., 1905, p. 722).
It differs from C. turgidus in the very much smaller central nipple or mucro on the inside of the operculum.
The shells are practically indistinguishable.
Our former opinion that C. formosaensis is a variety of C. turgidus must be retracted.
We doubt whether C. turgidus occurs in Formosa.
The species of this group of Cyclophori stand very close, and their differences are not of much importance, yet the areas occupied by the several slightly differentiated races are mainly different.
Cyclophorus friesianus Mlldff.
This species has been found at Tapanii, Formosa, the specimens agreeing well with the original description except by their smaller size, alt.
19, diam.
22 mm.
It differs from C. formosaensis interioris only in having numerous low spiral ridges above and below the peripheral keels.
The operculum is like that of formosaensis, evenly convex inside with a very small central nipple.
Species of Japan and the Ryukyu Islands.
Cyclotus tanegashimanus n. sp.
Shell very similar to C. campamdatus Marts., but if specimens of the same size are compared, tanegashimanus is seen to have the umbilicus a trifle larger and the aperture just perceptibly smaller; the lip is less expanded.
The operculum is distinctly convex externally, and much more deeply concave inside, than that of C. campamdatus.
The edge is bevelled and flat between projecting outer and inner laminae.
Alt.
8.5, diam.
12.2 mm.
; whorls U. "
7.1 " 10 " " d. Tanega-shima, Osmni.
Types No.
94,711 A. N. S. P., from No.
54:b of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The Cycloti of this group, represented in Japan by C. campanulatus, and in China by C. stenomphcdus and its allies, are very similar in shape and color.
The form described above is well distinguished by its externally convex operculum, that of C. campanulatus being flat outside and much less concave within.
Spiropoma yakushimanum n. sp.
The shell is depressed, very openly umbilicate, solid, yellowisholivaceous, somewhat brownish on the last whorl, the cuticle much paler or usually wanting on the inner whorls.
Surface glossy where unworn, marked with growth-lines and very indistinct traces of spiral strise.
Whorls fully 4^, quite convex, the first one projecting a little; last whorl tubular, very convex at the base, deeply descending in front.
Aperture oblique, longer than wide.
Peristome contracted, being thickened within and shortly built forward; obtuse, whitish.
It is thickened in the posterior angle, but usually has a small notch there.
The columellar margin recedes rather conspicuously.
The short parietal margin is thick and straight.
Alt.
7.3, diam.
12.5, alt.
of aperture including peristome 5.3, width 4.7 mm.
Alt.
6.3, diam.
11.5 mm.
The operculum is conic, composed of 7^ flat whorls separated by a narrow ledge with raised outer edge, producing a narrow spiral channel along the suture; summit obtuse.
Yaku-shima, Osumi.
Types No.
94,716 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,447 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Compared with S. japoniciim (A.
Ad.
), this form differs in the more descending last w^horl, the deeper umbihcus and more excised or receding columellar lip.
The aperture is longer than wide in yakiishimanum, nearly round in japonicum.
It is perhaps more closeh'' related to *S. nakadai of Tanega-shima, a smaller shell with an operculum of fewer whorls, but having an aperture much as in S. yakushimanum.
Diplommatina gotoensis n. sp.
Closely related to D. cassa, but with longer conical spire, rapidly tapering and conic above the penultimate whorl, which is the largest ; pale reddish or yellowish-corneous; very finely and evenly striate throughout.
Constriction in the middle in front.
Last whorl smaller, only moderately ascending to the aperture.
Aperture subcircular, the outer lip reflexed, duplicate, the two laminae close together, a narrow opaque whitish streak just behind the reflection; indistinctly angular at the base of the columellar lip.
Parietal callus thin with low, thread-like edge, not very distinct, and rising to the middle of the front of the penultimate whorl.
Columellar lamella horizontal, thin, rather long.
Palatal plica quite short and situated wholly to the left of the parietal callus.
Inside, the columellar lamella is evenly high and thin throughout.
Internal parietal lamella low and rather long.
Length 3, diam.
1.5 mm.
; whorls 6^. "
2.7, " 1.3 " " 6^.
Goto, Hizen.
Types No.
84,905 A. N. S. P.. from No.
6046 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species resembles D. nipponensis Mlldff.
in shape and sculptm-e, but differs by the position of the constriction, which is median in gotoensis, above the termination of the outer lip in nipponensis.
In the latter species the palatal plica lies under the parietal callus.
D. cassa is a more cylindric species, the cone of the spire shorter.
D. kyushuensis Pils.
and Hir., a widely distributed species in Kyushu, is closely related to D. gotoensis, but it has a palatal plica about twice as long, and the columellar lamella is much stronger near its inner termination than near the aperture, while in D. gotoensis it is about equally strong throughout.
Eulota (Plectotropis) lepidophora soutifera P. and H., n. subsp.
The shell closely resembles E. lepidophora tenuis Gude, but differs by its more convex whorls and consequently deeper sutures.
The periphery is often a little less angular than in tenuis.
Siu-face, when unworn, copiously covered wdth triangular cuticular scales.
Alt.
4.3, diam.
8.7 mm.
; whorls 5|-. "
4, " 7.3 " " 5i.
Iheyajima, Ryukyu group.
Types No.
94,705 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,2906 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Eulota (Aegista) celsa P. and H., n. sp.
The shell is convexly conic, deeply umbilicate, the umbilicus cyhndric, well-like, the periphery obtusely angular.
Siu-face lusterless, chestnut brown, finely but not strongly striate on the upper surface, the striae indistinct at the base ; on the last part of the last whorl near the aperture the striae are partially interrupted into long granules.
The spire has convex oiithnes and an obtuse apex.
Whorls 6J, convex, very slowly widening, the last one very slowly and slightly descending, indistinctly angular at the periphery in front, becoming rounded on the last half.
The aperture is quite oblique, very much larger than the umbilicus.
Peristome thin ; outer margiji only very slightly expanded ; basal margin deeply arcuate, slightly expanded; columellar margin broadly, triangularly dilated.
The terminations of the lip are widely separated, parietal callus very thin.
Alt.
10.5, diam.
12 mm.
; alt.
and width of aperture 6 mm.
; width of umbilicus 3 mm.
South Nishigo, Uzen.
Type No.
94,740 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,438 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This peculiar Aegista has some superficial resemblance to Trishoplita hilgendorfi Kob.
It is closely related to E. eminens P. and H., but differs in being larger, stronger, with less scaly sculpture, and a little less strongly angular.
It is quite possible that intermediate provinces between Shima and Uzen will be found to have connecting links between E. eminens and E. celsa ; yet at present they seem to be sufficiently distinct.
The type specimen is higher than others in the type lot.
The lower ones have less convex outlines, the spire being less convexly conic; the last two whorls have sculpture of long granules in places ; and the umbihcus is much wider than in the type.
Alt.
9, diam.
13.8 mm.
; aperture 6x6 mm.
; umbilicus 3.5 mm.
wide (celsus, lofty).
Ena reiniana vasta n. subsp.
Shell very large, cylindric.
The cuticle is glossy, yellowish brown, and copiously granulose except on 3 or 4 earliest whorls; but many old shells have lost the cuticle and sculpture in part or wholly.
Whorls 8 to 9^.
Length 37.5, diam.
above aperture 11 mm. "
35 " " " 10.8 " u 325 u u u ^-^2 " S. Nishigo, Uzen.
Types No.
94,686 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,439 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is the largest of the Japanese Buhmini.
It is larger than Ena reiniana omiensis, and copiously granular when unworn.
Ena reiniana ugoensis n. subsp.
Shell very short and obese, reddish on the spire, whitish on the last whorl, under a thin yellow cuticle; granulation only weakly developed.
Whorls 7i.
Length 26, diam.
above aperture 10, length of aperture 10 mm.
u 23, '' '' " 10, '' " 9.2 " Kitaura (Cape of Ojika), Ugo.
Types No.
94,738 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,444 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The obese shape, length about 2h times the diameter, is the chief character of this local race.
Pythia pachyodon n. sp.
This species of the scarabceus group is nearly uniform blackish olive, but with a blackish band below the suture and sometimes with more or less brown suffusion.
The sm-face is rather finely \vrinkle-striate, with some widely spaced spiral lines.
Spire angular on both sides, with whitish streaks in front of the angle.
Whorls 10.
Base perforate or umbilicate.
Aperture with two stout parietal teeth and a strong columellar lamella.
Teeth in the outer margin irregular, three larger, with two or three minute ones.
Length 30.6, greatest diam.
18.5, antero-posterior diam.
13.5 mm.
; length of aperture 18.5 mm.
Loochoo (Okinawa) and Oshima,in the Ryukyu Islands.
Types No.
87,537 A. N. S. P., from Mr. Hirase.
Pythia aegialitis n. sp.
The shell is similar to P. 'pachyodon, but is copiously mottled with dark brown on a pale corneous-yellowish ground; the markings sometimes partially obscured when the surface is superficially worn.
Teeth of the inner margin as in P. 'pachyodon; three teeth in the outer lip.
Length 25.3, greatest diam.
15.6, antero-posterior diam.
11, length of aperture 16.7 mm.
Loochoo (Okinawa) and Oshima, Ryukyu Islands.
The specimens from Oshima are somewhat longer and comparatively less wide than those from Loochoo Island.
While closely related to the P. scarabceus group, which is composed of very poorly characterized species, yet the two Ryukyuan forms do not exactly agree with any of them, and it may be well to have definite designations for them.
Besides these forms, P. cecillei Phil, has been found by Mr. Hirase at Hirado, Hizen, and P. 'nana Bavay was described from specimens taken at Loochoo.
Pisidium japonioum n. sp.
Fig.
1.
The shell is subglobose, rounded-oval, with large, very wide, moderately projecting rounded beaks; surface glossy, very finely, irregularly striate; cuticle light yellow; valves very convex, not very inequipartite, 36 [March, both ends rounded , the posterior shorter and wider.
Hinge very short, the lateral teeth short and wide, rather near together, stout but low, Pisidium japonicum, lateral, posterior and interior views.
only the anterior one projecting above the level of the valve.
Cardinal teeth minute, almost obsolete, narrow, very low and somewhat elongate.
Length 2.37, alt.
2.16, diam.
1.87 mm.
Akkeshi, Kushiro, Yesso, Types No.
94,744 A. N. S. P., from No.
181 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is the first Pisidium to be described from Japan.
It is a very small species, unusually globose, with very large full beaks.
1908.]
37 NEW LAND SHELLS OF THE CHINESE EMPIRE-I.
BY H. A. PILSBRY AND Y. HIRASE.
The following species were collected by Mr. Nakada in the course of several months' work, chiefly in the north.
A more ample report will be published later.
Working chiefly in the densely populated northeastern provinces and not far from the coast, the number of species taken was naturally not great, though some, such as Vallonia patens Reinh., Eulota?
miinieriana Cr.
& Deb., etc., are forms hitherto but little known.
Around Soochow and Hangchow a fauna richer in Clausilice, Helices and Cydophoridce was encountered, most of the species in this region being among those described by Pere Heude and earlier naturalists.
DIPLOMMATINIDiE.
Diplommatina hangchowensis n. sp.
Fig.
1.
The shell is short, cylindric, the summit shortly conic, base rounded ; corneous or pale brownish, somewhat translucent, the upper part whitish or pale red.
Whorls 5^, very convex.
The first whorl is smooth; following whorls are very finely and delicately rib-striate ; on the penultimate whorl the ribs are much weaker, and the last whorl is smooth.
In back view the penultimate whorl is largest, the last whorl much smaller and quite glossy, ascending a little near its end, and constricted in front, above the columella.
A short palatal plica shows through, just left of the parietal callus.
The aperture is nearly circular.
The peristome is expanded and thickened, with a flat face and inconspicuous inner rim; at the base of the columella it is very indistinctly angular; it is interrupted above, the margins joined by a thin parietal callus, with thin adnate edge.
Columellar lamella well developed.
Length 2.4, diam.
1.3 mm., alt.
of aperture 0.95 mm.
Hangchow, province of Che-kiang, China.
Types No.
94,748 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,479a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Fig.
1.
— Diplonvnatina hangchoivensis .
38 [March, This species of the section Sinica is smaller than D. paxillus Gredler, and differs by its smooth last whorl and very short palatal plica.
It is more related to D. hungerfordiana of Formosa, which differs in shape.
D. schmackeri Mlldff.
is unlike hangchowensis by the shape of the aperture.
A variety also from Hangchow may be called D. hangchowensis granum.
It is larger, length 2.7, diam.
1.5 mm., with 6 whorls and pale reddish-corneous color.
The cone of the spire is longer than in D. hangchowensis.
HYDROOBNID^.
The genus Georissa is represented by six species in China : G. hachmanni Gredl., G. sinensis Hde., G. nivea Hde., G. sulcata Mlldff., hungerfordiana Mlldff., and G. heudei P. & H. In all of these except sinensis and heudei the glossy, flat operculum is retracted some distance in the aperture.
This is the normal condition in Georissa.
In G. sinensis and G. heudei the thick, calcareous operculum lodges at the edge of the peristome, as in Bithynia, being larger than in Georissa proper.
We propose to signalize this feature by the erection of a new subgenus Georissopsis, the type being G. heudei.
Georissa (Georissopsis) heudei n. sp.
Fig.
2.
The shell is minutely perforate or subperf orate, conic, higher than wide, gray, more or less reddish in places, sculptured with very fine, close spiral striae, usually in large part lost by erosion.
There are 3^ to 3f whorls, the first corneous and glossy, the rest very convex, separated by deep sutures.
The aperture is subvertical, broadly semicircular, the outer margin very convex, inner margin nearly straight; the basal margin is very broadly rounded, the upper end narrowly rounded.
The peristome is thin, acute; the inner lip is built forward, standing free from the whorl except for a short space near the posterior end, leaving an umbilical area.
Length 3.4, diam.
2.1 mm.
The operculum lodges at the lip-edge.
It is between triangular and Fig.
2.
— G. heudei and outline of operculum, interior view.
semicircular in shape, calcareous, thick, white, with a dark nuclear dot nearer the outer border; around this it has concentric growth-lines.
The inner face is concave.
Near the lower third a stout rib arises about the middle of the width, running to the columellar border where it projects as a short point.
Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China.
Types No.
94,745 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,477 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is very similar to G. sinensis (Hde.)
in characters of the shell, but it differs in the operculum, which is figured as with subcentral nucleus in G. sinensis, while in G. heudei the nucleus is near the outer border.
We have no reason to doubt the accuracy of Heude's figure.
It was drawn by Rathouis, whose faithful drawings have probably never been surpassed.
Unfortunately Pere Heude, who described G. sinensis as a Realia, did not describe the operculum, merely saying that "I'opercule est celui du genre."
Some specimens from Changyang, received as G. sinensis, are much smaller than Pere Heude's type.
They have a dark, subcentral nuclear dot.
G. heudei occurred at Hangchow with the much smaller G. bachmanni Gredl.
HKLICID^.
Eulota laeva P. and H., n. sp.
The shell is sinistral, depressed-globose with conic spire, narrowly half-covered umbilicate, thin, light corneous-yellow.
Surface glossy, smooth to the eye, but under a lens it is seen to have very weak, faint growth-lines, the last two whorls densely, minutely granular, the granufront and dorsal \'iew.s.
lation weak on the upper surface, more distinct on the base ; there are also some weak traces of a few coarse, impressed spirals on the last whorl.
The spire is conic with slightly convex outhnes and obtuse apex.
Whorls 5^, slowly increasing convex, the last descending a little to the aperture and indistinctly angular in front, the base very convex.
The aperture is quite oblique, the upper and baso-columellar margins about equally arcuate, the outer arc more strongly curved.
The peristome is thin, narrowly but well expanded, the baso-columellar margin reflexed, somewhat dilated towards the columellar insertion.
Alt.
12.5, diam.
13.8 mm.
; aperture 7.5 mm.
high, 8 wide.
Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China.
Type No.
94,739, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,475 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a more compact shell than Eulota fortunei and quite different in sculpture.
The generic position is uncertain, until the soft anatomy can be examined.
It may belong to the section Eulotella, or it may be a Ganesella.
The minute granulation is like some species of the G. japonica group.
We do not know of any sinistral Ganesella, but there are many sinistral species of Eulota.
Dead and bleached shells which have lost the cuticle do not show the granulation described above.
The largest example seen measures, alt.
12, diam.
16.5 mm.
It is a dead shell.
Eulota (Plectotropis) scitula P. and H., n. sp.
Fig.
4.
The shell is rather narrowly umbilicate, conic above, convex below, strongly angular at the periphery; uniform chestnut brown.
The surface is rather dull, finely closely and rather weakly marked wdth growthstriae, which in quite fresh, unworn shells bear short adnate cuticular threads on the base, giving it a sparsely scaly appearance.
The last two whorls have also a very close, fine sculpture of beautifully even spiral Fig.
4.
— Eulota (Plectotropis) scitula.
strise.
The outlines of the conic spire are nearly straight.
Whorls 6|-, slowly increasing, moderately convex, the last descending very little or not at all in front, convex beneath.
The aperture is strongly oblique, rounded lunate.
Peristome thin, narrowly but distinctly expanded, the basocolumellar margins a little reflexed, dilated towards the columellar insertion; ends widely separated, joined by a thin film.
1908.]
41 Alt.
6.5, diam.
9.2 mm.
; aperture alt.
4, width 4.6 mm.
; umbilicus 1.7 mm.
wide.
Alt.
6.5, diam.
9 mm.
Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China.
Types No.
94,741 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,471 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A small, beautifully sculptured shell, which we are unable to identify with any of Pere Heude's species from the lower Yangtse valley.
It has some resemblance to E. inornata and belongs to a group of thin, dull species with the shell spirally engraved, cuticular scales small or wanting, and usually with no peripheral fringe.
Other species of tJiis group are E. osbecki, inornata, hachijoensis, fulvicans, lautsi, micra, perplexa, inrinensis, hebes, etc.
Chloritis impotens P. and H., n. sp.
Fig.
5.
Shell depressed-globose, narrowly umbilicate, thin and fragile, corneous-brown.
The surface has a somewhat silky sheen, and under the lens is seen to be densely set with small granules, which are long in the direction of growth-lines, and arranged in oblique, forwardly descending rows, though this arrangement is not everywhere visible, being in part or wholly lost near the mouth.
This granular sculpture extends almost to the apex, only the initial half whorl or less being smoothish, though not glossy.
On the last two whorls the granules Fig.
5.
— C. impotens, basal, front and dorsal views, and sculpture of last whorl below suture.
bear short cuticular appendages in fresh, unworn shells, such as are often present in Mgista and Plectotropis.
The spire is low-conic.
Whorls 5, convex, at first slowly increasing, the last one abruptly becoming much wider, about twice the width of the preceding, not noticeably descending in front, rounded at the periphery.
The aperture is rounded -lunate, moderately obUque.
Peristome thin throughout, the outer and basal margins very slightly expanded, columellar margin broadly, triangularly dilated, half covering the umbilicus.
Alt.
8.7, diam.
12.6 mm.
; alt.
aperture 6.5, width 7.5 mm.
Chifoo, province Pe-chih, China.
Types No.
94,742 A. N. S. P., from No.
1,468 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
42 [March, A thin, fragile shell, with large aperture and densely, minutely granose-scaly sculpture.
In fully adult shells the granulation is more or less worn from the apical and early whorls, and on the last whorl the long granules appear to be glossy, but hardly if at all raised above the dull surface.
The generic position of this snail is uncertain, but it has the shell characters of Trichochloritis rather than of any group known anatomically to belong to Eulota.
PaPILLID^.
Hypselostoma (Boysidia) hangohowensis P. and H., n. sp.
The shell is high-conic, with obtuse apex and convex base, minutely perforate, with a long curved umbilical rimation, dark brown.
The spire is straightly conic, composed of 5^ convex whorls.
The last whorl ascends slowly to the aperture, its latter part being straightened and built forward to the level of the ventral face of the shell.
There is no crest or marked constriction behind the lip.
The aperture is truncate-oval, the upper margin straight.
Peristome thin, well expanded, continuous; with a shallow dent outside at the upper third of the outer lip.
The angular and parietal lamellae are concrescent into one stout straight lamella reaching to the margin, wider in the middle of its length, where it shows traces of its dual composition.
The columellar lamella is strong, slopes obliquely downward as it enters, and the outer end reaches to, but not upon, the expansion of the hp.
There are two short palatal plicae, the lower one somewhat more deeply placed.
Alt.
2.9, diam.
1.8 mm.
; largest axis of aperture 1.3 mm.
Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China.
Type No.
94,743 A. N. S. P., from Mr. Hirase.
Compared with H. (Boysidia) hunana Gredler, this is a much smaller shell, with only two palatal plicae instead of three, and the anguloparietal lamella is less distinctly bifid, as seen in an obliquely basal view.
It is not closely related to other described species.
H. hangchowensis was found with Bifidaria {Bensonella) plicidens (Bens.
), a species not before reported from China, but found in the Ryukyu Islands, as well as in subhimalayan India.
H. hunana as described and figured by Gredler has the last whorl H. hangchowensis.
built forward, carrying the aperture free from the preceding whorl.
We have not seen this form; the specimens of hunana before us, while agreeing with Gredler's description in other characters, do not have the last whorl free in front, though the peristome is continuous.
They are like Pere Heude's figures of hunana.
Dr. von Mollendorff has unnecessarily altered the name hunana to hunanensis.
We share with Gredler the opinion that Boysidia is a section or subgenus of Hypselostoma rather than a distinct genus.
April 7.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., in the Chair.
Thirty-seven persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under the following titles : "Description of a new Species of Squaloid Shark," by Chiyomatsu Ishikawa, Ph.D. (March 18, 1908).
"Notes on Succinea ovalis Say and S. ohliqua Say," by H. A. Pilsbry (March 21).
"Animal Names and Anatomical Terms of the Goshute Indians," by Ralph V. Chamberlain (March 28).
"Notes on Sharks," by Henry W. Fowler (March 28).
"Generic Types of Nearctic Reptilia and Amphibia," by Arthur Erwin Brown (April 7).
The death of Henry Clifton Sorby, a correspondent, March 9, was reported.
Dr. Henry W. Cattell made a communication on Trypanosomiasis in man and animals.
(No abstract.)
April 21.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., in the Chair.
Twenty-eight persons present.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication: "On the Classification of Scalpilliform Barnacles," by Henry A. Pilsbry (April 21).
The death of James M. Ridings, a member, March 7, was announced.
Mr. Harold Sellers Colton made a communication on Charles Wilson Peale and the Philadelphia Museum.
(No abstract.)
Henry H. Donaldson, M.D., was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : NOTES ON SUCCINEA OVALIS Say AND S. OBLIQUA Say.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Since Gould's publication on the Succineas of Massachusetts in 1841, there has been more or less confusion as to the identity of Succinea ovalis Say.
The facts in the case were pointed out by Dr. Binney in 1851, but unfortunately a faulty manner of correcting Gould's mistake was adopted, resulting in two errors of nomenclature in place of one.
Some years ago the writer rectified the current usage, restoring Say's name ovalis to its original significance.
This correction has been accepted by many recent writers, but there are a few conspicuous exceptions ; hence it seems necessary, in the interest of uniform nomenclature, to demonstrate the status of *S. ovalis by giving its history somewhat fully.
Observations on the mantle-markings of Succinea, made in New York several years ago, also find place here.
These color markings are shown to be highly variable among individuals of a single colony, yet the general pattern differs to a greater or less extent in different species.
The subject is worth further investigation, both from the standpoint of variation and also systematically, as an aid in distinguishing species in this difficult genus.
Succinea ovalis Say.
The actual type or types of Succinea ovalis Say are no longer in existence ; but three specimens labelled and mounted on a card by Say are extant, representing what he subsequently considered to be S. ovalis.
The original description must have been drawn from immature individuals, the measurements, ''length nine-twentieths of an inch, aperture seven-twentieths," being only about twothirds to threefourths the ordinary size attained around Philadelphia.
The proportion of aperture to length given by Say agrees with specimens I have measured, but with no other Succinea of this region.
This common Philadelphian snail, still living in Fairmount Park, is indistinguishable from what Lea subsequently described from Newport, R. I., as S. totteniana.
In the Tableau Systematique de la Famille des Limagons, p. 26 (1821), Ferussac records Succinea ovalis Say as communicated to him by Say, and figured on plate XIa, fig.
1 of the Histoire, etc., which was issued in 1822.
The two figures given represent tlie form now commonly known as "S. totteniana^' (but properly called S. ovalis Say), and still found around Philadelphia.
These figures agree perfectly with the specimens labelled by Say in the collection of the Academy.
On the same plate Ferussac figures larger forms ("S. obliqua" of authors) as varieties of S. putris (figs.
7, 8).
He also figures large ovalis (totteniana) from "the islands Miquelon and Saint Pierre, near Newfoundland" (fig.
9).
The species S. ovalis was therefore very well figured by Ferussac, from author's specimens, prior to Say's description of S. obliqua; and there was but scant excuse for mistaking it, except that but few American workers possessed the large and expensive Histoire naturelle generale et particuliere des Mollusques terrestres et fluviaiiles.
Beck, 1837, and other early European writers accepted the species, referring to Ferussac's figures.
Succinea ovalis was correctly recognized also by various early American writers for the form later known as totteniana.
See DeKay's New York Fauna, Mollusca, p. 53, PI.
4, figs.
51, 52.
It was Gould who by error shifted the names, in the first edition of the Invertebrata of Massachusetts (1841).
He recognized three Succineas in that State : S. ovalis, fig.
125 [= S. retusa Lea].
S. campestris, fig.
126 [= S. ovalis Say = totteniana Lea].
,S. avara, fig.
127 [correctly identified].
Gould subsequently recognized his two mistakes, and finding that the names *S. ovalis Say, obliqua Say and campestris Gould, not Say, all applied to one species, he proposed to retain the name obliqua for it, and to use "*S. ovalis Gld.
not Say" for *S. retusa, the snail he had figured in error as Say's ovalis.
DeKay, C. B. Adams and Sager, who used Gould's work, were in some measure misled, especially in regard to *S. campestris.
DeKay (1843), as mentioned above, correctly identified S. ovalis.
In 1851 Dr. Amos Binney lucidly discussed the American Succineas in Vol.
II of the Terrestrial Mollusks, pp.
63, 64.
His exposition of the history of *S. ovalis Say leaves little to be desired, and may well be quoted here : "Succinea ovalis Say.
— This species, diffused universally in the middle and northern States of the Union, is that which is described in the works of Messrs. Gould, Mighels, Kirtland and Sager as Succinea campestris Say.
It varies much in size, and in the divergence of the last whorl from the axis of the shell, and this last variation when 1908.1 47 strongly developed constitutes Succinea ohliqua Say.
Succinea ovalis of Messrs. Gould, Adams, Mighels and Sager is not the ovalis of Say, but a species which was unknown to him.
As, however, the ovalis of Gould is that now most commonly known under the name of Succinea ovalis, we propose to retain it, and to appl}^ to Mr. Say's species his second name, ohliqua."
y^ Fig.
1.
— Tablet bearing Succinea ovalis, mounted -and labelled by Thomas Say.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
2.
— Say's tablet of Succinea ohliqua.
Nat.
size.
The tablet of three specimens of S. ovalis labelled by Say is photographed, fig.
1.
A series of modern specimens from Fairmount Park is shown, fig.
3.
These show a considerable amount of variation in contour, some being as long as Say's types of S. oUiqun, shown in fig.
2.
Philadelphian examples do not attain a large size, rarely exceeding 16 or 18 mm.
in length.
It is a region of crystalline metamorphic rock, deficient in lime, where the land shells generally run under the size usual in New York or the West.
The color is yellowish green, and the shell very thin.
This type of shell is widely distributed, from Ontario to the mountains of North Carolina and west to Minnesota and Missouri.
Fig.
3.
— Succinea ovalis Say.
Fairmount Park, Pliiladelphia.
Nat.
size.
In the examples of S. ovalis taken at Chittenango Falls the upper part of the spire in living animals is whitish with a papery appearance, the last whorl is pale buff, becoming olivaceous and dusky over the lung.
This is in some examples more or less obscured by a gray network, marked with some black blotches, but in others there is a pattern of black streaks very much like that of S. ovalis chittenangensis.
See PL VII, figs.
9, 10, 11, (No.
90,084, 90,085 A. N. S. P.) Succinea ohliqua Say, 1824, also was described from Philadelphia, two cotypes mounted on the cards used by Say, and inscribed with his autograph label, being still preserved.
They are photographed in fig.
2.
These specimens have the spire longer than in ovalis, the suture more oblique, but are otherwise very similar.
They are greenish-yellow, though not quite so green as ovalis, and the abundant series of other Philadelphian specimens before me leaves no doubt that they intergrade perfectly with Philadelphian ovalis.
It will not, I think, be possible to use the name ohliqua in a varietal or subspecific sense, though it might be used to indicate the elongate phase or form which the species often assumes, if a name for that be desired.^ It must be understood, however, that the longer phase occurs with the shorter typical ovalis, and is fully connected therewith by intermediate individuals in the same colonies.
The synonyms of S. ovalis, and early references thereto discussed above, here follow : Succinea ovalis Say, Journ.
A. N. S. Phila.
I, 1817, p. 15.
Ferussac, Tabl.
Syst., 1821, p. 26; Hist.
Nat.
MoU.
Terr., PI.
XIa, fig.
1 (not S. ovalis Gould).
Succinea ohliqua Say, Major Long's Second Exped., II, 1824, 260, PL 15, fig.
7.
DeKay, New York Fauna, Moll., p. 53, PL 4, fig.
53.
Binney, Terrestr.
Moll., II, p. 69.
Succinea campestris Gould, Invert, of Mass., 1841, p. 195, fig.
126.
DeKay, New York Fauna, Moll., p. 53, PL 4, fig.
54 (not S. campestris Say).
Succinea totteniana Lea, Proc.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, II, 1841, p. 32.
Succinea ovalis optima n. subsp.
Fig.
4.
In many localities from New York to Minnesota and Iowa a form much more robust than typical ovalis is found.
The shell has coarser wrinkle sculpture, and yellow predominates rather than green.
The contour is about that of the larger examples of ovalis (such as those Say called S. ohliqua), but varies to nearly or quite as broad as typical ovalis.
The suture is deep, and at the last whorl oblique.
The largest specimens I have seen are from the type locality, Crugers Valley, near Upper Red Hook, Duchess Co., N. Y., collected by Mr. W. S. Teator.
Two of them measure : ^ S. greeri Tryon has been quoted as a synonym of aS.
ohliqua, but it is certainly distinct from that species.
Length 26, diam.
16, length of aperture 18 mm. "
25 " 13.5 '' " 17.5 " This size is not often reached .
In the middle West a length of 20 mm, is near the maximum, and the size of some individuals which seem to be adult is not greater than the largest of the typical form of S. ovalis.
Fio;.
4.
— Succinea ovalis optima.
Xat.
size.
This large race is what has commonly been called S. obliqua Say, but the true obliqua is merely the longer phase of typical ovalis, and the name is not fairly applicable to the form above described.
I have not examined the living animal of this race.
I picked up a single bleached specimen of S. o. optima on the beach at Galveston, Texas, in 1886.
It had probably floated there, as I do not think it exists in the Austroriparian zone.
Sucoinea ovalis ohittenangoensis n. subsi.. Pl.
VII, figs.
1 to 8.
The shell is yellow or pinkish-yellow, much lengthened, with a longer spire than any other race of S. ovalis; suture deep; whorls 3^, the last rather flattened above, not so convex there as in S. ovalis or S. o. optima.
Aperture very oblique, relatively small.
Length 22.5 diam.
11.5, length of aperture 14 mm.
(No.
90,087). "
23.3 " 11.3 " '' 14 " (No.
90,081). "
21 " 11.3 " '' 13 " (No.
90,079). ''
19 " 10.5 " " 12 " (No.
90,083).
Cotypes from a sloping weed-covered talus near the foot of Chittenango Falls, Madison Co., N. Y., No.
90,087, 90,081 and 90,079, A. N. 8'.
P., collected August 27, 1905, by Messrs. Henderson, Walker, Clapp and Pilsbry.
A very large series was taken, associated with a few S. ovalis, from which they are easily separated by the characters given above.
I have seen this form from nowhere else.
The locality is on the Onondaga limestone (coniferous).
4 50 [April, In the living animal the mantle as seen through the shell is pale yellow with a slight olive tint, olive over the lung; the apex is more or less ruddy.
This ground is profusely striped and blotched with black on the last H whorls, as shown in figs.
1 to 5.
Over the kidney the black blotches are interrupted and the ground tint is lighter, making a light streak across the whorl, partially seen in figs.
2 and 5 at the right upper portion of the last whorl.
Very exceptionally the black blotches are almost absent, as in figs.
6, 7, 8.
Fig.
8 represents the least marked individual seen, and probably to be regarded as a case of partial albinism.
The lower edge (collar) of the mantle is gray peppered with white dots.
The foot is pale yellowish, back and flanks gray with slate tesselation, tentacles slate.
The posterior end of the foot is somewhat blackish above.
All figures of plate VII were drawn from living animals.
In alcohol the black and gray pigment remains, but S. ovalis chitlouuiijuciisis.
the yellow tint is fugitive.
The pattern of pigmentation of the lung has clearly been influenced by a tendency of the markings to follow veins; but in many specimens this tendency has been lost to a great extent.
Summary.
(1) Succinea ovalis Say was based upon Philadelphian specimens of the form subsequently described as S. totteniana Lea.
It was well figured by Ferussac from examples sent by Say, as early as 1822.
The proportion of aperture to length given by Say applies to no other Succinea of the region about Philadelphia.
(2) Succinea ovalis Gould, 1841, is a totally different species, which was described as S. retusa by Lea in 1837.
The true identity of S. ovalis was recognized by Dr. Binney in 1851.
(3) Succinea ohliqua Say, 1824, was based upon elongate specimens of S. ovalis Say, also from Philadelphia.
It is an absolute synon5TTi of S. ovalis.
(4) S. totteniana Lea and Binney is absolutely identical with the typical S. ovalis Say.
Explanation of Plate VII.
Figs.
1-S — Succinea ovalis chittenangoensis n. subsp.
1, 2, No.
90,081 A. N. S. P.; 3, No.
90,079; 4, 5, No.
90,080; 6, No.
90,083; 7, 8, No.
90,082.
Figs.
9~n— Succinea ovalis Say, Chittenango Falls.
9, 10, No.
90,085; 11, No.
90,084.
NOTES ON SHARKS.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The species included in this paper are based on material contained in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, unless otherwise stated .
HEXANOHID^.
Hexanchus griseus (Gmelin).
A dried skin without data.
Heptrauchias cinereus (Gmelin).
Head 6f to 6^ ; depth 10 to lOf ; snout 3 in head ; eye 4 to 4| ; length of mouth 2^ to 2 J ; interorbital space 3^ to 3f ; front margin of first dorsal 2| to 2f ; front margin of anal 3f to 4|-; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; front margin of lower caudal lobe 2 to 2^; length 32^ to 35^ inches.
Two examples from Italy (C. L. Bonaparte, No.
245).
Also 2 dried skins without data, the larger 44^ inches long.
HETERODONTIDiE.
Heterodontas japonicus (Dumeril).
Head 5i; depth 7j; depth of head If in its length; width of head 1^; height of first dorsal If; height of second dorsal 1^; height of anal If; lower caudal lobe 1|; pectoral 4f ; tail 4|in length of body; width of pectoral H in its length.
Color in alcohol deep brown with obscure scattered brown spots on trunk, which are however rather sparse.
Length 28 inches.
No data.
Also jaw of another, from Japan in 1891 (Frederick Stearns).
SCYLIORHINIDJB.
Foroderma stellare (Linnaeus).
Head 7f to 8^; depth 8t to 14 ; snout 2^ to 2f in head ; eye 3f to 4f ; width of mouth 2 to 2f ; interorbital space 2^ to 2f ; first dorsal 1^ to 1|; second dorsal 1| to 2^; anal If to 2^; caudal from origin of lower lobe 3f to 4f in rest of body; length 6 to 18 inches.
Eleven examples.
Italy (Bonaparte).
Also 2 dried skins, Nos.
^ and ^, with samedata.
Two other dried skins without data.
This genus must now be known by the above name, as Dr. Gill's specification of Catulus stellaris Smith as the type of Catulus^ is not admissible.
Under Catulus three species are included by Smith, viz.
: Squalus canicula Linn., Scyl.
marmoratum Bennett, and C. edwardii Smith.
The first of these is here considered as the type, thus allowing it to fall a synonym of Scyliorhinus Blainville.
The type of Poroderma Smith may be considered its first species, Squalus africanum Gmelin.
Galeus melastomus Rafinesque.
Head 6yV to 7; depth 10 to 14|; snout 2 to 2f in head ; eye 3f to 4f ; width of mouth ly^o to 2f ; interorbital space 2 to 2f ; first dorsal If to 2|; second dorsal If to 2f ; base of anal 1 to If; caudal from origin of lower lobe 2^ to 3f in rest of body; length 7 to 18|inches.
Ten examples.
Italy (Bonaparte, No.
253).
Also 3 dried skins without data.
The above generic name may be adopted for this genus, as Rafinesque includes but two species.
They are G. melastomus and Squalus uyato, of which the first may be considered the type.
If his intention was to have made S. galeus Linnaeus his type he certainly has missed the opportunity, as that species is not even mentioned, and the inference may be only surmised by reference to his Ind.
It.
Sicil., 1810.
Pristiurus Bonaparte is thus superseded by Galeus Rafinesque.
HEMISOYLLIID^.
Chilosoyllium indicum (Gmelin).
Three examples from Padang (C. H. Harrison, Jr., and H. M. HiUer), Sumatra.
Color when fresh in arrack more or less uniform dull brown, lower surface of head, abdomen, and bases of pectorals and ventrals dirty cream-white.
The largest 21 inches long.
The youngest with very distinct markings.
One specimen now in Stanford University.
Oreotolobus japonicus (Regan).
One example without data.
The Japanese material called 0. harbatus by Jordan and Fowler^ is this species.
GINGLYMOSTOMID^.
Ginglymostoma cirratum (Gmelin).
One from St. Martin's (R. E. Van Rijgersma), W. I.
Three otherdried skins, and one alcoholic, may have the same data.
They are all 1 Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 1861, p. 41.
2 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXVI, 1903, p. 606. uniformly brown and without spots.
The largest is but a little over 2 feet in length.
The St. Martin's example shows: Head 5h; width of head about 1 in its length; snout If; eye 8; width of mouth about 3; interorbital space If; buccal cirrus 6; front margin of first dorsal about 1^; of second dorsal If; of anal If; pectoral 1^; ventral If; least depth of caudal peduncle 4f; length about 23 inches.
Two other examples, probably the Squalus punctatus Schneider, one evidently from St. Martin's (Rijgersma), W. I., and the other from Tortugas (James Roosevelt), Fla.
Both are rather sparsely spotted with deep brown.
Head 5*; depth 7f to 8; snout 1| to 2 in head; width of mouth 2f to S^; interorbital space If to If; front margin of first dorsal If to If; of second dorsal If to 1|; of anal 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 4^ to 5; pectoral 1^ to If; ventral 1| to 2; length 12 1 to 14| inches.
In the preliminary account of this genus by Miiller and Henle^ no species is mentioned, though Drs.
Jordan and Gilbert have designated Squalus cirratus Gmelin* as its type.
Miiller and Henle's next account includes species.^ Dr. Gill designates "Type Ginglymostoma concolor,"^ which may be assumed to be congeneric with the species of the present group, though somewhat confusing as Nebrius Riippell (its type N. concolor Riippell) was admitted to Ginglymostoma by Dr. Gill himself.
CAROHARIID^.
Carcharias littoralis (Mitchill).
Head 5; depth 8f ; length of first dorsal 2 in head ; of second dorsal 2\; of anal 2f ; of lower caudal lobe 2^; pectoral If; tail 12^in length of body; entire length 44^ inches.
Nantucket (B.
Sharp), Mass.
Head of a large example from Sea Isle City (W. J.
Fox), and jaws from Townsend's Inlet (J. D. Casey), N. J., latter wrongly confused by me with Lamna cornuhica'' Also 3 other pairs of jaws without data.
ALOPIID^.
Alopias vulpes (Gmelin).
Head 8f ; depth 8f ; width of head If in its length; depth of head 1-J; snout about 3^; eye about 6; width of mouth 3; interorbital space 2f ; 3 Wiegm.
Arch., 1837, p. 396.
* Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., No.
16, 1882, p. 18.
« Syst.
Besch.
Flag., 1838, p. 23.
« Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 1861, p. 40.
"> Rep. N. J.
State Mus., 1905, p. 56. front margin of first dorsal If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; ventral lyV; about 38 series of teeth in upper jaw and 28 in lower; pectoral reaching + to ventral, and its greatest width 2 in its length.
Color in alcohol dull gray-brown, more or less uniform, lower surface of trunk and head, also of pectoral and ventral, a little paler.
Dorsals and caudal like back.
Iris pale slaty-gray.
Length 49 inches.
Newport, R. I. J. C. Dunn.
Also a large dried skin (Bonaparte ^), probably from Italy?
liAMNID^.
Isurus oxyrinclius Rafinesque.
Jaws of a large example, evidently this species, without data.
Possibly from Italy?
Lamna oornubica (Gmelin).
Head about 5 ; depth about 6 J ; snout about 2f in head ; eye 7| ; width of head about 3; gape of mouth 2^; interorbital space 3f ; height of first dorsal 2f ; length of second dorsal 4f ; of anal 4|; least depth of caudal peduncle 9; greatest width of caudal peduncle 4^; front margin of lower caudal lobe H; pectoral 1^; ventral 3.
Color in alcohol dull gray-brown on upper surface of body, and pale or whitish below, line of demarcation along side of caudal peduncle sharply defined.
Dorsal and upper surface of caudal like back, lower pale like belly, though with more or less grayish.
Upper surface of pectoral like back, lower paler like belly.
Ventral and anal pale, slightly with grayish.
Iris pale olive-gray, eyeball whitish.
Teeth whitish.
Length 27^ inches.
Italy (Bonaparte).
OETORHINID^.
Cetorhinus maximus (Gunner).
Although there is no example in the collection, a large dried mounted skin, said to have been taken in Monterey Bay, Cal., was exhibited in Philadelphia several years ago, and was examined by Mr. Witmer Stone and myself.
GALEORHINID^.
Cynais canis (Mitchill).
Nantucket (Sharp), ]\Iass.
; Newport (J. Leidy and S. Powel), R. I.; Sea Isle City (Fox), Atlantic City (C. W. Buvinger, G. W. Tryon, Jr.), and Great Egg Harbor Bay (Leidy), N. J.; E. Coast U. S. (Smiths.
Inst.
); Italy (Bonaparte).
Mustelus mustelus (Linnaeus).
(M. equestris Bonaparte, Icon.
Faun.
Ital., Pesc.
Ill, pt.
2, vii, 1834, descr., PI., fig.
2, mari d'ltalia.)
Head 6^; depth about 9; width of head 1| in its length; depth of head at posterior margin of eye 2^; snout measured to eye 2f ; eye Sf; width of mouth 2f ; interorbital space 2f ; width of internasal space 6|; front margin of first dorsal 1^; of second dorsal 1|; of anal 2|-; least depth of caudal peduncle 6f ; front margin of lower caudal lobe 2to i upper margin of pectoral lj\ ; front margin of ventral 2.
Body very elongate, depressed in front, sides well compressed, and tapering posteriorly into a long slender caudal, greatest depth about origin of first dorsal.
Edges of body rather slightly convex or depressed, a very obsolete or shght median ridge down back most pronounced on upper surface of caudal peduncle, and down postventral and postanal regions a well-developed deep median groove.
Caudal peduncle slender, compressed, and its least depth about If in its length.
Head well depressed, profiles tapering similarly, and as viewed above rather elongate wdth somewhat attenuately convergent margins though tip rounded.
Snout broadly depressed, edge rather trenchant, and its length but a trifle less than its width.
Eye elongate, large, laterally superior, and placed about midway in length of head.
Mouth rather broad, symphysis of mandible slightly in front of anterior margin of eye, and rami would nearly form a right angle.
Lips thin and hardly developed.
At angle of mouth externally a rather long fleshy fold forming a well-developed flap projecting posteriorly, and though groove distinct posteriorly around it, it extends but very little along outer margin anteriorly.
About 55 series of blunt tubercles or pavement-like teeth in each jaw.
Buccal folds rather narrow.
Tongue large, broad, its surface minutely asperous, and edges all free and sharp.
Nostrils large, well separated on each side of snout below, near last third in length of latter measured to eye, and each with a well-developed flap.
Interorbital space broad, well depressed, and but very slightly convex.
Gill-openings 5, last 2 over base of pectoral, and third deepest or about 2 in interorbital space.
Spiracle small, distinct, and placed behind eye a space equal to about ^ its horizontal diameter.
Body covered everywhere with minute shagreen denticles of uniform size.
Origin of first dorsal much closer to origin of pectoral than that of ventral or a little nearer tip of snout than origin of second dorsal, its apex forming nearly over its posterior basal margin, and a long slender point projecting behind equal in length to width of mouth.
Origin of second dorsal a little nearer posterior basal margin of first dorsal than origin of upper lobe of caudal, base of fin hke that of first dorsal well elevated and fleshy, and fin otherwise similar with posterior point about equal to eye horizontally.
Caudal long and slender, origin of upper lobe begins a little behind that of lower, and its distal expansion about 3^ in its own length.
Lower caudal lobe a little elevated below, and length of its base about 1^ in entire length of upper.
Anal inserted a little behind middle of base of second dorsal, or a little nearer origin of lower caudal lobe than tip of depressed ventral, and similar to second dorsal, only smaller, posterior point equal to horizontal eye-diameter.
Pectoral large, upper margin rather evenly convex, reaching f to origin of ventral, and its posterior margin slightly concave.
Ventral inserted about midway between origin of ventral and that of anal, rather broad, and its lower margin a little concave.
Clasper small, about half length of posterior point.
Color in alcohol dull uniform gray-brown above, merging into grayishwhite tint uniformly over lower surface of body.
Upper fins like back or with grayish, both pectoral and ventral paler below.
Iris pale brassy and pupil slaty.
Length about 26 inches.
No.
617, A. N. S. P., cotype of M. equeslris Bonaparte.
Italy (Bonaparte, No.
248).
From Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Also Nos.
618 to 620, with same data.
They show: Head 5^ to 6^; depth 8^ to 10|; width of head If to If in its length ; snout 2 to 2J ; eye 4^ to 6^; width of mouth 3f to 3^; interorbital space 2^ to 2|; front edge of first dorsal 1| to If; front edge of anal 1| to 2f ; pectoral 1 to If ; length 10^ to 21f inches.
The smallest example is uniform on the back, like the larger ones, and is without any spots or markings.
My confusion of these examples with Galeorhinus galeus^ was due to the original labels being evidently wrongly placed.
I have verified this by an examination of Bonaparte's original catalogue, where they are also wrongly entered in the latter's own handwriting.
Mustelus mento Cope.
Fig.
1.
(Proc.
Am.
Philos Soc.
Phila., XVII, 1877, p. 47, Pacific Ocean at Pecasmayo, Peru.)
Head about 5; depth 7f ; width of head If in its length; snout 2^; eye 5J; width of mouth 3f; interorbital space 2f ; front margin of 8 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 332, PI.
13, fig.
4 (anatomy).
first dorsal ly\; front margin of second dorsal 2f ; front margin of anal about 3; front margin of lower caudal lobe 2h; least depth of caudal peduncle 6i; pectoral If; ventral 2^^.
Body rather well compressed, back elevated, edges rather rounded or convex, a very slight median keel down back and a slight median depression down postventral and postanal regions.
Caudal peduncle slender, well compressed, and its least depth about f its length.
Head broad, depressed , profiles similar, and when viewed above rather narrowly convergent Fig.
1.
— Mustelus mento Cope.
(Tj^ie with rounded tip.
Edges of snout rather trenchant, and its length equal to its greatest width.
Eye elongate, and its center a trifle posterior in length of head.
Mouth moderately broad, symphysis falling but a trifle before front of eye, and rami would form a right angle.
Lips thin and little free.
At each corner of mouth a pointed flap, free behind and with a rather long outer fold.
Teeth pavementlike, in about 50 series.
Upper buccal fold papillose, with a slightly ragged margin, not entire as stated previously, and narrow.
Lower buccal fold entire.
Tongue rather pointed, its upper surface very finely asperous, and margins free.
Nostrils large, inferior, well separated, about last third in snout measured to eye, and each with a well-developed flap.
Interorbital space convex.
Body everywhere minutely roughened.
Origin of first dorsal nearly midway between tip of snout and origin of second dorsal, apex of fin falling about midway in its length, and posterior pointed flap equals eye horizontally.
Origin of second dorsal a little nearer that of first dorsal than last caudal vertebra.
Anal with its apex about opposite its posterior basal margin.
Upper lobe of caudal begins a little after that of lower, and its distal expansion about 2|in its length.
Lower caudal lobe a" little elevated in front, and its height about 3f in its length.
Pectoral reaches f to ventral.
Ventral inserted a trifle nearer origin of pectoral than posterior basal margin of anal, and reaching a trifle more than half-way to anal.
Color in alcohol with under surfaces^of pectorals and ventrals grayish, otherwise fins of more or less uniform tint of back.
Iris pale yellowishbrown, pupil dusky.
Length 12i inches.
No.
21,104, A. N. S. P., type of M. mento Cope.
Pacific Ocean at Pecasmayo, Peru (J. Orton).
Coll.
of 1876-77.
From Cope.
Triakis felis (Ayres).
Santa Barbara (U. S. F. C), Cal.
I adopt Mustelus felis Ayres for this'species, as his name has evident priority.
His paper** was read December 4, 1851, which is in the signature dated December 25.
This was received by the Academy of >fatural Sciences of Philadelphia on February 6, 1855.^° T. semifasciatus Girard occurs in No.
6 of the same volume,^" which was elsewhere" not acknowledged as having been received until February 20, 1855, and therefore this date may be accepted for its publication.
Galeorhinus galeus (Linnaeus).
Head 57; depth about 8-^; snout about 2^ in head; eye 5; length of mandible 3; width of mouth 2^; tip of snout to mandible 2f ; interorbital space 2j; front margin of first dorsal ly^^; of second dorsal Sf; of anal 4f ; least depth of caudal peduncle about 5; pectoral If; ventral 3f; length 17f inches.
Italy (Bonaparte, No.
254).
The other three examples are all smaller, the smallest 9 inches long and showing the attachment of the placenta still in good preservation.
These were confused as Galeus mustelus by me, as already explained.
Also a dried skin, without data, 44 inches long.
« In Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., I.
*° See Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., VII, p. xxii, in donations to the library.
*^ New York Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
Galeorhinus zyopterus Jordan and Gilbert.
(Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XVI, 1883, p. 871, eiddently based on G. galeus Jordan and Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., Ill, 1880, p. 42, San Pedro, California; Jordan and Gilbert, I.e., p. 458, San Francisco, Cal.)
Head 5y; depth 11?
; width of head If in its length; depth of head at posterior margin of eye about 2|; snout 2^; eye 4^; width of mouth at corners 2 J ; interorbital space 21; front margin of first dorsal 2 ; of second dorsal about 2; of lower caudal lobe If; least depth of caudal peduncle 5; upper margin of pectoral 1^; front margin of ventral about 5.
Body elongate, slender, depressed anteriorly and tapering back from head.
Down middle of back, also middle of postventral and postanal regions, a longitudinal groove.
Caudal peduncle slender, its least depth about 2^ in its length.
Head broadly depressed, about equally so above and below, and as viewed from above profile rather elongately convergent with rounded tip.
Snout well depressed, its edge but slightly trenchant, and space between its own tip and front of mouth equal to width of latter.
Eye large, elongate, lateral and its center falling a trifle posterior in length ■of head.
Nictitating membrane large, well developed, and with a deep pocket between itself and eye.
Rami of mandible would nearly form a right angle, though symphysis not quite extended forward till opposite front rim of eye.
Teeth pointed, mostly tricuspid, and directed towards side of mouth, with outer cusp of each of lateral teeth best developed.
About 44?
series of teeth in upper jaw.
Buccal folds rather well developed and papillose.
Tongue large, broad, flattened, rounded in front, and its edge free.
Nostrils rather large, well separated or internasal space about half width of mouth, each with a small fleshy point, and placed about last f in snout measured to front of eye.
Interorbital space broad, a little convex, and depressed medianly.
Gill-openings 5, last 2 over base of pectoral, and third and fourth largest or about If in eye horizontally.
Body covered ever5r^'here with simple shagreen points of moderately small and uniform size.
Origin of first dorsal a Httle nearer that of second than tip of snout, forming a rather rounded lobe with its apex just before posterior basal margin of fin, and point of latter equals eye horizontally.
Origin of second dorsal nearer that of first than end of last caudal vertebra by a space equal to width between outer edges of nostrils, apex of fin forming about over middle of its length, and its posterior point about IJ in eye horizontally.
Origin of anal a trifle after that of second dorsal, its apex forming about first third in its length and its posterior point 1} in eye horizontally.
Origin of lower caudal lobe a little in advance of that of upper, and height of fin at this point about 2f in length of its base.
Upper caudal lobe broad, its expansion at end nearly equal to width of mouth or about 3f in its length.
Pectoral broad, larger than first dorsal, and reaching f to ventral, with posterior margin a little incised.
Ventral inserted a little nearer origin of first dorsal than that of anal, and reaching f to origin of latter.
Clasper equals posterior anal point.
Color in alcohol deep gray-brown on back, becoming paler gray on sides, and lower surface whitish.
Upper surface of snout pale brownish.
Teeth all whitish.
Iris livid grayish and pupil slaty.
Nictitating membrane pale like side of head.
Dorsals pale brownish, upper or outer portion of lobe dusky to blackish and posterior point becoming very pale to whitish.
Caudal pale brownish, end of upper lobe and notch behind lower dusky to blackish, fin otherwise more or less pale.
Pectoral dusky or blackish above, pale to grayish below.
Ventral and anal whitish like lower surface of body.
Length 12| inches.
No.
582, A. N. S. P., cotype of G. zyopterus Jordan and Gilbert.
San Francisco, California (U. S. F. C. No.
27,190).
Galeooerdo tigrinus Mailer and Henle.
Head 6|^; depth llf; width of head If in its length; snout 3; width of mouth 2^jj; space between tip of snout and front of mouth 4; interorbital space If; pectoral H; base of ventral 4J; caudal nearly 2 in rest of body.
Body broad, depressed, and trunk rather slender posteriorly.
Caudal peduncle broad, and side from below second dorsal bluntly keeled till opposite middle of lower elongate caudal lobe.
Head large, very broad, depressed.
Snout broad, rounded.
Length of preoral region about f width of mouth.
Eye anteriorly lateral, with nictitating membrane.
Mouth large, beginning well before eye, and gape extends one diameter behind latter.
Corner of mouth with long outer fold.
Teeth about |f, broad, compressed, directed laterally,, finely serrated along margins, and with five small cusps externally.
Tongue broad, not free.
Lips rather thin.
Nostrils lateral, with small flaps, and nearer front edge of snout than front of mouth.
Interorbital space convex.
Anterior gill-openings large, third largest, and last two over base of pectoral.
Peritoneum silvery.
Shagreen very fine.
First dorsal inserted opposite posterior basal edge of pectoral, with sharp point behind, and height of fin a little less than base.
Second dorsal inserted about midway between caudal pits and origin of ventral.
A narrow median low keel along back between dorsals.
Anal small, inserted below first third of base of second dorsal, its margin deeply concave, and with a sharp point posterioriy.
Lower caudal lobe about 2f in upper.
Caudal notch near tip.
■ Pectoral falcate, margin concave and reaching posteriorly below posterior base of dorsal.
Ventral small, broad, obtuse, and inserted nearly midway between posterior basal edge of first dorsal and origin of second dorsal.
Color when fresh in arrack slaty-gray, paler below.
Upper surface of body and pectoral, also dorsal and caudal, variegated with deep leaden-gray blotches, and many of those on side of trunk more or less elongate and vertical.
Length 39^ inches.
Padang, Sumatra (Harrison and Hiller).
Very large jaws from Guaymas, Mexico; also a pair from Beesley's Point.. N. J.
(S. Ashmead) ; a pair from between Turk's Island and Barbadoes (Dr. W. H. Freeman).
Prionaoe glauca (LinnEeus).
Head 5; depth about 10^; width of head about 2 in its length; snout 2f ; eye about 7h ; width of mouth about 3 J ; interorbital space 2f ; front margin of first dorsal 2^ ; front margin of second dorsal 4§ ; front margin of anal about 4; least depth of caudal peduncle about 7|-; pectoral If; ventral 3^.
Teeth with entire edges, and each lateral tooth of upper jaw followed by about four cusps and in lower by one or two.
Median teeth in each jaw erect, smaller and with a single slender point.
Color in alcohol deep chocolate-brown on back and upper surface, and lower surface pale creamy-white.
Dorsals and caudal, except basally at lower lobe, which is whitish, dark like back.
Upper surface of pectoral and ventral dark like back, though latter paler, and lower surfaces grayish to whitish like belly.
Entire lower surface of head whitish like belly.
Iris grayish-slaty, pupil pale.
Length 23 inches.
Italy (Bonaparte, No.
250).
Another dried skin, without data, is 48 inches long.
Eulamia milberti (Miiller and Henle).
One from Great Egg Harbor Bay (Dr. J. Leidy).
The name Carcharias Rafinesque cannot be applied to this genus, as the only species mentioned for it, and therefore its type, is taurus, a sand shark identical with Agassiz's genus Odontaspis.
Carcharhinus Blainville^^ is next in order.
It is based on commersonii, lamia, lividus, iistus, heterodon, verus, broussonetii, glaucus, cceruleus, megalops, heterobranchialis, cornuhicus, monensis?, vulpes.
Drs.
Jordan and Gilbert restrict the first species {commersonii) as its type, but all the evidence shows it to be a nomen nudum, and their suggestion that it is based on Lacepede's figure of Le Squale Requiii}^ seems only assumption when '=> Bull.
Soc.
Philomath., Paris, 1816, p. 121. "
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., I, 1799, pp.
165, 169, PI.
8, fig.
1.
1908.
63 judged from Blainville's work alone.
If the next of Blainville's specific names are considered, lamia is found first proposed as Carcharias lamia by Rafinesque," without description or diagnosis, and simply as " (Squalus carcharias Linnaeus).
Carcaria lamia.
Pesce Caine, Imbestinu, 6 Lamia."
Thus it would be typified by >S'.
carcharias Linnaeus, which would upset Carcharodon of Smith, in which case I shall consider the Squalus vulpes Gmelin the type of Carcharhinus Blainville.
The next generic name available is Eulamia Gill, which had best be adopted.
^ ■xj Fig.
2.
— Eulamia odontaspis Fowler.
(T;ype.)
Eulamia odontaspis sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 51; depth 8f ; width of head about If in its length; depth of head at first gill-opening If; snout 2f ; width of mouth 24: interorbital space 2; front edge of first dorsal If; of second dorsal 2; of anal 2^; of lower caudal lobe If ; least depth of caudal peduncle about 5 ; pectoral 1-^; ventral 27.
Body depressed anteriorly, apparently rather robust, a slight median Ind.
It.
Sicil, 1810, p. 44. depression down back and another down postventral and postanal regions, greatest depth about origin of dorsal.
Caudal peduncle compressed, and its least depth about 1| in its length.
Head rather well depressed, profiles similar apparently.
Snout well depressed, rather short, when viewed above broadly convex, and its length to front of mouth about f its width at that point.
Eye small, elongately ellipsoid, and its center about first f in head.
Nictitating membrane rather broad.
In profile end of mandible a little l^efore front rim of eye, as seen from below profile of symphysis rather broadly convex in front, and its length f its width.
No grooves at corners of mouth.
Teeth about ff?, similar in both jaw^s, without basal cusps, edges entire, slender, compressed, of rather uniform size and sharply pointed.
Nostrils large, lateral, below on snout near last third of its length.
Interorbital space broadly convex.
Gill-openings 5, second and third deepest or about 5 in head, and last two over base of pectoral.
No spiracle.
Body covered with very fine shagreen, scarcely rough to touch.
Origin of first dorsal about midway between tip of snout and tip of posterior depressed point of second dorsal, and posterior point 2|in length of fin.
Origin of second dorsal about an eye-diameter nearer that of upper caudal lobe than posterior basal margin of first doi-sal, and posterior point of fin 2f in its front margin.
Caudal rather small, upper lobe begins a trifle behind lower, and its length about 3f in rest of body.
A pit on caudal peduncle, both above and below, at origins of caudal lobes.
Anal begins very slightly behind origin of second dorsal, and fin reaching H to origin of lower caudal lobe, tip of posterior process not extending back bej^ond that of end of fin in front.
Pectoral broad, inserted rather low, and when depressed reaching about opposite origin of first dorsal, its greatest width If in its length.
Ventral broad, its origin slightly behind tip of depressed dorsal, and depresserl fin reaching If to anal.
Claspers small.
Color of dried skin dull brown generally, lower surface scarcely paler.
Fins all unicolor.
Length about 20f inches.
Type No.
34,634, A. N. S. P. No data, but probably from the Indian Ocean?
This interesting specimen is probably identical with Day's figure of Carcharias ellioti}^ His description, however, differs in the outer labial groove, serrated teeth with basal cusps, first dorsal beginning ' Fishes of India, IV, 1880, p. 716, PL 189, fig, 2 behind base of pectoral with its base being nearer latter than ventral, inner margin of pectoral ^ of its outer and fin reaching below end of base of dorsal, anal below last f of second dorsal, and caudal 3f in total.
His figure of a skin, 6 feet long, differs in some minor details from my example, which however may be due to age.
('Oduf, tooth, 'fiCTTTif, scale; hence Odontaspis, an old generic name applied to the sand sharks, and here used with reference to the superficial resemblance of this species.)
Eulamia longimanus (Poey).
Head about 6| ; depth 81; width of head If ; snout 2f in head ; width of mouth 21; interorbital space ly\; height of first dorsal 2f ; of second dorsal 7f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; lower caudal lobe 2|-; pectoral 1-J-; ventral 2f ; upper caudal lobe 3f.
Teeth all finely serrated and upper but little notched on outer margins.
Dorsal inserted just after base of pectoral.
Width of pectoral 2 in its length.
Length 39 inches.
Dried skin without data.
Jaws of large example from West Palm Beach (G. B.
Wood), Fla., in 1907.
Another pair of jaws from the Gulf of Florida (Dr. G. Watson) is probably this species.
Eulamia menisorrah (MuUer and Henle).
Head 6|-; depth 8|; width of head If in its length; snout 2|-; width of mouth 2f ; tip of snout to mandible 3 ; interorbital space 2 ; height of first dorsal 1^; pectoral 1; length of ventral to posterior tip ly^j least depth of caudal peduncle 4f ; caudal 3 in rest of body.
Teeth without serrations, each with several small cusps.
Length 25|inches.
Padang (Harrison and Hiller), Sumatra.
Also a very young example with same data.
Edge of first dorsal very narrowly margined with black, also ends of second dorsal and caudal.
Eulamia oxyrhynohus (MuUer and Henle).
Head about 4f ; depth 11^; width of its head 2f in its length; snout about 2Jq ; width of mouth 2|; interorbital space 3f ; front margin of first dorsal 2|-; of second dorsal 4; of anal about 4; of lower caudal lobe 2y^-o ; pectoral If ; length of ventral 3f; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^ in snout; eye 8; upper caudal lobe equals head; length 17| inches.
Dried skin without data, though probably from Surinam?
(Hering?
), It differs a little from Miiller and Henle's figure, most likely in respect to age, in having insertion of first dorsal a little more posterior or opposite posterior basal edge of pectoral, depressed pectoral not reaching beyond posterior basal margin of first dorsal, depressed first 5 dorsal reaching If to ventral, origin of anal slightly before that of second doi-sal, and origin of ventral nearly midway between posterior basal margin of first dorsal and origin of anal.
Scoliodon laticaudus (Miiller and Henle).
A small example, 7^ inches long.
Straits of Malacca.
It agrees largely with Miiller and Henle's figure.
Scoliodon terrae-novse (Richardson).
Bayport (Cope), Fla. Two dried skins, larger 38 inches long, are -evidently this species; no data.
SPHYRNIDiE.
Sphyrna tiburo (Linnseus).
Newport (Powel) R. I.; St. Augustine (W. Blanding), Fla., in May, 1832.
Sphyrna tudes (Valenciennes).
Head 4|; depth 7; length of disk, along its posterior margin, | its width transversely at second undulation; width of head just after hammer 2-^-j^ in head; width of mouth about 3^; third gill-opening 5f; front margin of first dorsal 1^; length of second dorsal 2f ; of anal 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; pectoral If; ventral 2|.
Teeth in about 26 series in' mandible.
Color in alcohol plain pale brown, a little darker on upper surface of body and paler or whitish on lower.
Fins all grayish-brown.
Iris slaty.
Length 8 inches.
Surinam (Hering).
Sphyrna zygsena (Linnaus).
Nantucket (Sharp), Mass.
; Sea Isle City (W. J.
Fox), Holly Beach (Miss Edith Ives) and Grassy Sound (Fowler), N. J. ; Surinam (Hering) ; Panama (W. S. W. Ruschenberger) ; Italy (Bonaparte, 251); Padang (Harrison and Hiller), Sumatra.
Also 4 dried skins T\ithout data.
Sphyrna bloohii (Cuvier).
Head 6f ; depth about 9f ?
; least width of head behind hammer If in its length ; greatest width of hammer 2f in its length, measured along its inner margin ; least width of hammer 4 ; space between tip of snout medianly and margin of upper jaw about 3 in head; width of mouth 2; length of third gill-opening about 4; base of first dorsal 1^; entire length of second dorsal about 1|; base of anal about 2\; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; front margin of lower caudal lobe 1^; length of pectoral 1 ; base of ventral 2f ; clasper If.
Body long, slender, apparently little compressed, but rather rounded or robust, greatest depth about origin of dorsal, and edges of bodydepressed or flattened.
No very evident pits at origins of caudal lobes.
Caudal peduncle rather robust, scarcely compressed, and its least depth 1^ in its length.
Head moderately large, well depressed both above and below and with evenly convex surfaces.
Snout rather broadly depressed and moderately short, as viewed from above front margin undulate with a median emargination where tip would form .
Each side of head produced laterally into a very narrow^ long depressed hammer-like process with its front margin much thicker than posterior, also former as viewed above a little undulate in profile while posterior is nearly straight.
Along anterior margin of each hammer a rather deep groove, extending from nostril half-way to median point of snout and distally to end of hammer.
Eye at anterior external lateral extremity of hammer, elongate, rather small, and its horizontal diameter about 4-^ in distal expansion of hammer.
Nictitating membrane broad, conspicuous, and evidently leaving a deep pocket on each side.
Mouth broad, margin of upper jaw rather evenly lunate or convex, and ramus of mandible would form a very obtuse angle.
Gape of mouth about f its width.
No groove at each corner of mouth.
Teeth all moderately large, directed laterally, entire, rather broadly triangular, and each with an external notch, no basal cusps.
About 28 series of teeth in upper jaw and about 24 series in lower.
Nostril inferior on hammer along its anterior margin near basal fifth of latter, as measured along its posterior margin, or about inner f of space between tip of snout and end of hammer.
Nostril furnished with but a slight flap.
Top of head rather broadly convex.
Gill-openings, first a little nearer posterior margin of hammer basally than origin of dorsal, last two over base of pectoral, and second and third largest.
No spiracle.
Body covered entirely with very minute shagreen denticles of apparently uniform size.
On lower surface of hammer anteriorl}^ a number of more or less conspicuous small pores.
Origin of first dorsal nearer tip of snout than that of second or about opposite first fifth in space between origin of pectoral and that of ventral, fin high, falcate, apex forming above just behind its base which is If in its height, and its posterior point about 3f in head.
Origin of second dorsal a little nearer that of first dorsal than end of last caudal vertebra or about over middle of base of anal, base of fin about I of its total length and long posterior point 3f in head.
Origin of anal a little nearer posterior basal margin of ventral than origin of lower caudal lobe, larger and also inserted well before second dorsal, posterior point about If in its length and anterior lobe about equal to length of base.
Origins of caudal lobes nearly opposite(?
), and distal expansion of upper 7f in its length.
Anterior lobe of lower caudal lobe 2yV in length of latter.
Upper caudal lobe 2J in rest of body.
Pectoral much smaller than first dorsal, interventral space about ^ in length of fin, and greatest width about 2 in latter.
In form pectoral rather falcate and pointed and would reach about f of space to ventral.
Ventral inserted a little nearer origin of pectoral than that of lower caudal lobe, fin low, its greatest height about last fourth of its length, and clasper well developed.
Color of dried skin deep dusky-brown over entire upper surface of body, including dorsals and upper lobe of caudal.
Upper surfaces of pectoral and ventral of same tint.
Entire lower surface of body pale gray-bown, this also largely over remaining portions of fins, anal and claspers.
Teeth whitish.
Length 50^ inches.
Pondichery, India.
June 9, 1840.
Thomas Ryan.
It differs from Cantor's figure^^ in the narrower and longer hammer.
SQUALID^.
Oxynotus centrina (Linnceus).
Head 5f to 5f ; depth 5f to 7|; width of head 1^ to 2 in its length; depth of head 1|to If; snout 2f to 3; eye 3f to 4; width of mouth 3f to 4|-; interorbital space 2yV to 3; first dorsal spine 1^ to If; second dorsal spine 1| to 1^^^; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; height of lower caudal lobe 2 to 2|; pectoral 1 ; ventral 1|to If; length 9|to 12 inches Italy (Bonaparte, No.
242).
From Wilson.
Also another, dried skin, with same data.
No.
^.
Squalus acanthias Linnseus.
Castine (G. B.
Wood) and Mt.
Desert (Dr. H. C. Chapman), Maine; Gloucester (U. S. N. M.), Mass.
; Cape May (H. W. Hand), N. J.; Italy (Bonaparte, No.
246).
Squalus blainville (Risso).
Head 5^; depth 8 to Of; width of head If to H "^ its length; depth of head at first gill-opening If to 2^; snout 2^ to 2f , measured from front of mouth ; eye 3f to 4^ ; width of mouth 2^ to 2^^ ; interorbital space 2f to 2f ; first dorsal spine 2f to 2|?
; second dorsal spine 2| to " Quart.
Journ.
Calcutta Med.
Phys.
Soc, No.
V, January 1, 1838, PI.
1.
2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 7 to 8|; pectoral lyV to If^; ventral li to 1|; teeth in 26 series in jaw; length ISf to 26 inches.
Italy (Bonaparte, No.
249).
Three examples.
Entoxychirus uyato (Rafinesque).
Head 4i; depth 8; width of head If in its length; snout 2f ; eye 3f ; width of mouth 2| ; interorbital space 2f ; first dorsal spine 2| ; second dorsal spine 3*; least depth of caudal peduncle 5|; pectoral If; ventral 2 ; teeth about f ^ ; length 20| inches.
Italy (Bonaparte, No.
241).
Centrophorus granulosus (Schneider).
Head about 5i; depth about 7f; width of head about 1|in its length: snout 3; eye-cavity 4; snout to front of mouth about 2^; width of mouth 3; interorbital space 2f ; first dorsal spine 4; second dorsal spine 4|-; least depth of caudal peduncle 6; pectoral 2 along front margin; length of ventral 2^; teeth |^; length, dried, about 33^ inches.
Italy?
(Bonaparte, No.
42).
Also another example, dried, without data, probably same as above?
Dr. Doderlcin included Squalus uyato Rafinesque" as a synonym of this species.
From the latter's very rude figure,^* though of course of little value, one would be obliged to retain it under Squalus.
Etmopterus spinax (Linnaus).
Head 5yV to 5f ; depth about 6^ to 9f ?
; width of head If to If in its length ; snout 2|to 3^ ; eye 3 to 5 (iris) ; width of mouth 2f to 2f ; space between tip of snout and front margin of upper jaw If to If'o-; interorbital space 2^ to 2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 5f to 6^; height of lower caudal lobe 3f to 3f ; pectoral ly^ to 2yV; ventral If to If; teeth 1^; length lU to 16| inches.
Italy (Bonaparte, No.
243).
Three examples.
Centre scyllium fabricii (Reinhardt).
George's Bank (U. S. N. M.).
A young example.
DALATIID^.
Dalatias licha (Bonnaterre).
Head 6^; depth 8f to 9; width of head If to 1|; depth of head about If to 2|; snout 4f to 4^; eye, to edge of iris, Q^ to 7; space between tip of snout and front margin of upper jaw 3f ; width of mouth 2f to 3f ; interorbital space 2f to 3 ; length of first dorsal U to If ; length of second " Car.
Nuov.
Gen. Sicilia, 1810, p. 13. "
Squalus uyaius Rafinesque, I.e., Pi.
14, fig.
2. dorsal If to If; least depth of caudal peduncle 6 to 6|^; height of lower caudal lobe 2f to 2f ; pectoral 1^; ventral, without clasper, 1^^; length 32 J to 33| inches.
Italy (Bonaparte, No.
240).
Two examples.
SQUATINID^.
Squatina squatina (Linnseus).
Three from Italy (Bonaparte, No.
238) ; one from Bay of Naples (Dr. H. C. Chapman); large example without data.
Also three dried skins, without data.
