NOTES ON THE FLORA OF THE BERMUDAS.
BY STEWARDSON BROWN.
The present flora of the Bermudas, aside from the plants known to have been introduced through the agency of man, probably numbers about two hundred species, of which thirteen vascular forms are endemic, and has undoubtedly been derived through the usual agencies producing insular floras.
On the stretches of sandy beach the same species are met with as characterize similar locations in the West Indies or Florida: Ipomcca pes-capro3 (L.) Sweet, Canavalia obtusifolia (L.) D. C, Sesuvium portulacastrumL., Croton punctatus Jacq., Scccvola Plumieri (L.) Vahl.
and Cakile lanceolata (Willd.)
0.
E. Schultz, while on the rocky shores are Borrichia arborescens (L.) DC, B. frutescens (L.) DC, Chamcesyce buxifolia (Lam.)
Small, and the two characteristic shrubs Suriana maritima L. and Tournefortia gnaphalodes (L.) R. Br.
On the shores of the quiet bays and lagoons the mangrove Rhizophora mangle L. and Avicennia nitida Jacq.
are the dominant species, while in the marshes Osmunda spectabilis Willd., 0. cinnamomea L., Pteridium caudatum (L.) Maxon, Cladium jamaicense Crantz, Eleocharis interstincta (Vahl.)
R. and S., Kyllinga brevifolia Rottb., Typha angustifolia L., Myrica cerifera L. and B acchar is glomeruli} olia Pers.
are more or less generally distributed.
The plants of the higher ground seem more restricted in their distribution for the most part.
Dodonosa angustifolia Sw. is generally distributed through the hills, Randia aculeata L. is known only on the Paget Sand Hills, while the following are found almost exclusively in the Walsingham Tract: Adelia segregata (Jacq.)
Kuntze.
Psychotria undata Jacq., Trema Lamarkiana (R. and S.) Blume, Eugenia monticola D. C and Zanthoxylum flavum Vahl., the last known only from two trees, one on a hill east of Paynter's Vale (B. and B., No.
357, 1905), with several young ones surrounding it, and the other discovered by the writer in one of the sinkholes near the caves at Walsingham.
These, so far as known, are all that survive of the "yellow-wood" of the islands, referred to by early writers as growing in such abundance.
With the exception of the cedar (Juniperus bermudiana L.), which is very abundant in the islands, by far the commonest plants to-day are those introduced by man.
A number of weeds on the roadsides and in the "gardens" and others which do not belong to this class, but have been introduced for their beauty or utility and are now so thoroughly naturalized as to have become an integral part of the flora.
Among these plants the most abundant is the common sage, Lantana involucrata L., said to have been introduced from the Bahamas more than a century ago as a fuel, to take the place of the cedar which was being extensively used for lime burning.
It is now so general throughout the islands that were it not known to be an introduction it might easily be mistaken for a native plant.
Lantana camara L., introduced as a garden flower from Madeira in 1819, is as generally distributed though not quite as abundant, and when in flower is one of the striking plants of the roads and hillsides.
The fiddlewood, Citharexylon quadrangulare Jacq., introduced at Paynter's Vale in 1830 by Archdeacon Spencer, is now abundant everywhere on the main island, having spread from the original tree, which is still standing.
Another of Archdeacon Spencer's introductions at Paynter's Vale in 1840 was the myrtle, Jasminum simplici folium Forst, which now festoons the trees and rocks, forming almost impenetrable tangles throughout the Walsingham Tract, where it has become a great nuisance by smothering many of the more desirable plants, especially the cedar.
Without doubt the birds have played an important part in the spread of these four species through the islands, as all bear a profusion of berries.
Other introductions are prominent features in the vegetation of the islands, but two of the most striking which are integral parts of the flora are the oleander, Nerium oleander L., introduced in 1790 as a rare exotic and now planted extensively for hedges and windbreaks, which is naturalized on the hillsides, and while in flower during the summer months is a gorgeous display of color, and the Life Plant of the Bermudians, Bryophyllum pinndtum (Lam.)
S. Kurz, introduced as a curiosity in 1813 and now abundant everywhere on the roadsides and in the woods, when flowering during the winter months, is hardly less a feature than the oleander.
In 1905, the writer, in company with Dr. and Mrs. Nathaniel Lord Britton, of the New York Botanical Garden, visited the islands between August 31 and September 20, when a collection of more than four hundred species was made, principally in the several marshes and in the Walsingham Tract.
The writer made two subsequent visits to the islands, 1 from February 10 to March 9, 1908, and May 22 to June 1 Investigation prosecuted with the aid of a grant from the Esther Herrman Fund of the New York Academy of Sciences.
2, 1909, when collections of more than three hundred species were made, a majority of which were not included in the former gatherings.
In the present paper, which is based on the observations and collections made during these several visits, only the endemic species among the flowering plants are considered, together with such as have been added to the hitherto published lists.
Juniperus bermudiana L. B. and B., No.
1, September, 1905.
Mt.
Langdon, north shore.
The most abundant tree, growing everywhere throughout the islands, in dry and rocky ground as well as in the marshes.
At the time of flowering during March and early April the staminate trees are a golden color, presenting a striking contrast with the rich blue-green of the pistilate trees.
Thalassia testudinum Koenig & Sims.
B. and B., No.
185, September, 1905.
Spanish Point and Hungry Bay.
Found abundantly in all the shallow bays, and is probably the basis for the record of Zostera marina L. of the lists, as that species was nowhere observed.
Andropogon virginicus L. B. and B., No.
225, September, 1905.
Paget Marsh.
Not observed elsewhere.
Syntherisma violascens (Link) Nash.
B. and B., No.
57, September, 1905.
Hills north of Hamilton.
Polypogon littoralis L. B. and B., No.
301, September, 1905.
Roadside near Warwick Marsh, S. B.. No.
698, 1909.
Middle Road.
Frequent on the roadsides throughout the islands.
Erogrostis major Host.
B. and B., No.
308, September, 1905.
In cultivated ground near Warwick Pond.
Poa pratensis L. S. B., No.
670, May, 1909.
On top of cliffs, south shore, west of Tuckers Town.
Frequent.
Briza maxima L. B. and B., No.
346, September, 1905.
Field near Gibbs Hill Light.
S. B., No.
679, May, 1909.
Middle Road near Wesleyan Church.
Observed at a number of places throughout the island, in the lawns and on the hillsides.
Bromus unioloides (Willd.)
H. B. K. S. B., No.
685.. May, 1909.
St. David's Island, growing abundantly in a field.
Hordeum pusillum Nutt.
S. B., No.
695, May, 1909.
St. David's Island.
Abundant on the roadsides and around St. David's Light.
Cyperus alternifolius L. S. B., No.
578, March, 1908.
Marsh near Tuckers Town.
S. B., No.
726, June, 1909.
Pembroke Marsh.
Although undoubtedly an escape from cultivation, it is thoroughly naturalized and spreading in the localities noted.
Cyperus flavescens L. B. and B., No.
334, September, 1905.
Pembroke Marsh.
Cyperus filicinus Vahl.
B. and B., No.
101, September, 1905.
Serpentine Marsh.
Scirpus Olneyi A.
Gray.
B. and B., No.
304, September, 1905.
Warwick Marsh.
Eleocharis cellulosa Torrey.
B. and B., No.
305, September, 1905.
Warwick Marsh.
Eleocharis pratincola Britton.
S. B., No.
723, June, 1909.
Pembroke Marsh.
Carex bermudiana Hemsley.
B. and B., No.
224, September, 1905.
S. B., No.
649, March, 1908.
Paget Marsh.
At the time of the preparation of the "Challenger" report, this interesting species was known only from a specimen in the Sloan Herbarium at the British Museum, and as no subsequent collections had been made up to that time, Prof. Hemsley expressed some doubt as to whether the species described by him was really collected in the islands.
Our rediscovery of it in September, 1905, at what is likely to be the original locality in Paget Marsh, settles the correctness of Sloan's label beyond a doubt.
The species appears restricted at the present time to this one locality, where, however, it is growing in some abundance.
Carex albolutescens Schwein.
S. B., No.
702, May, 1909.
Eastern end of Devonshire Marsh.
Abundant.
Not observed elsewhere.
Sabal Blackbumiana Glasebrook.
B. and B., No.
217, September, 1905.
Throughout the islands, but varying considerably in appearance according to situations.
33 On the dry exposed hillsides it is more or less dwarfed and of a yellowish color, while in moist rich ground and the marshes it is a handsome tree with rich green foliage.
It is recorded as at one time an abundant tree, forming extensive groves, but it is now found for the most part only in the lawns where it has been preserved.
The finest natural grove observed by us is in Paget Marsh, where hundreds of examples may be seen in varying stages of growth.
Some fine specimens are also to be found in the Devonshire Marsh, probably taller than any others in the islands.
Junous bufonius L. S. B., No.
675, May, 1909.
Cultivated ground, Harrington House.
S. 13., No.
725, June, 1909.
Pembroke Marsh.
Nothoscordium bivalve (L.) Britton.
No.
415, 1905.
Mr. Nicholas Periston, Paynter's Vale.
S. B.. No.
696, May, 1909.
Abundant in a cultivated field near Devil's Hole.
Sisyrinchium bermudianum L. B. and B., No.
2 (fruit).
Mt.
Langdon, north shore.
S. B., No.
661, May, 1909.
Harrington House.
"The Bermudiana," by which name it is known throughout the islands where it is everywhere abundant, growing in all kinds of situations.
During April and May it is a striking flower of the hills, roadsides and lawns.
Peperomia septentrionalis n. sp.
Plant smooth, green throughout, except the peduncles and stems which are frequently rosy when exposed to strong light.
Stems rather stout, 2 to 4 dm.
long, ascending at the tips; leaves alternate, blades leathery, entire, dark green and shining above, glandular punctate, oval to ovate or obovate, slightly emarginate, 4 to 6 cm.
long, 9 to 11 nerved, decurrent at the base, with the petioles 1 to 3 cm.
long; spikes terminal or axillary in the upper leaves, simple or several times branched, .5 to 1.5 dm.
long with peduncles shorter than the leaves, rather densely flowered; nutlets oblong, slightly papillose, 1 mm.
long with a straight or slightly curved beak one-third their length.
In woods usually on moist or shaded rocks, frequent throughout the island from the Causeway to Tuckers Town, among the rocks and around the caves, sinks and fissures; also in the shaded portion of Paget Marsh, growing on the damp ground and over the stones, flowering from late autumn to spring.
Probably most nearly related to P. magnolicefolia microsphyxia Dahlstedt, from which it differs in the relatively broader leaves and the less strongly papillose nutlets which are oblong instead of ovate-globose.
Type, S. B., No.
428, March, 1908.
Herb.
A. N. S. Philadelphia.
From shores of Castle Harbor, Walsingham.
Alternanthera maritima St. Hil.
S. B., No.
487, March, 1908.
Long Bird Island.
Abundant in a little cove on the Castle Harbor side of the island, about a quarter of a mile from the end of the Causeway.
Phytolacca decandra L. B. and B., No.
219, September, 1905.
Paget Marsh.
Alsine Baldwinii Small.
S. B., No.
580, March, 1908.
Sand Hills, Tuckers Town.
Apparently an abundant plant in tins portion of the island, but not observed elsewhere.
Sagina procumbens L. S. B., No.
585, March, 1908.
Top of cliffs near Tuckers Town.
Tissa marina (L.) Britton.
S. B., No.
591, March, 1908.
South shore near Spittle Pond.
Abundant.
Silene nocturna L. S. B., No.
583, March, 1908, and No.
671, May, 1909.
Top of cliffs, south shore, near Tuckers Town.
Frequent.
Silene noctiflora L. S. B., No.
682, May, 1909.
At western end of Causeway.
This species was also observed sparingly near Harrington House, in a piece of grassy woods.
Ranunculus acris L. B. and B., No.
244.
Grassy woods, south shore road, Devonshire, Papaver Rhoeas L. S. B., No.
530, March, 1908.
Cultivated ground, St. Georges, near swinging bridge.
Diplotazis muralis (L.) D. C. S. B. ; No.
686, May, 1909.
St. David's Island.
Abundant.
Pedicellaria pentaphylla (L.) Schr.
B. and B., No.
70, September, 1905.
Cultivated ground north shore.
Potentilla reptans L. B. and B., No.
211, September, 1905.
South shore road.
Devonshire.
Laurocerasus caroliniana (Mill) Roem.
B. and B., No.
220, September, 1905.
Paget Marsh.
A number of trees of various sizes, intermixed with the cedar and Palmetto.
Not observed elsewhere.
Phaseolus lunatus L. S. B., No.
680, May, 1909.
In an open cave near Tuckers Town, growing to a height of 5 to 8 meters, over the cedars and fiddlewoods; flowers white, yellow in fading.
S. B., No.
719, June, 1909.
Joyce's Dock Cave.
Abundant, growing over the trees and rocks; flowers purple.
A Phaseolus from this locality, which is without doubt the same, is recorded in Lefroy's list without specific name.
Poinsettia cyathophora (Murray).
B. and B., No.
296, September, 1905.
Cultivated ground, Walsingham.
Abundant throughout the northern end of the Walsingham region and around Bailey's Bay.
Not observed elsewhere in the islands.
Cissus sycioides L. B. and B., No.
223.
Paget Marsh, climbing over the trees.
Elaeodendron Laneanum A. H. Moore.
B. and B., No.
274, September, 1905 (fruit), Walsingham, near caves.
S. B., No.
453, March, 1908 (flowers).
Walsingham, near caves.
Frequent throughout the Walsingham Tract between Paynter's Vale and the Causeway.
Most abundant in the vicinity of the caves, where it becomes a handsome tree 7 to 10 meters high.
The flowers appear early in March.
Abutilon abutilon (L.) Rusby.
B. and B., No.
183, September, 1905.
Cultivated ground, Spanish Point.
Malvastrum americanum (L.) Ton-.
B. and B., No.
248, September, 1905.
Roadside near Devil's Hole.
Sida rboinbifolia L. B. and B., No.
272, September, 1905.
Walsingham.
Abundant throughout the Walsingham Tract.
Turnera ulmifolia L. S. B., No.
546, March, 1908; No.
713, May, 1909, Walsingham; and Miss Delia Marble, No.
739, April, 1909, Knapton Hill.
Isnardia palustris L. B. and B., No.
337, September, 1905.
Pembroke Marsh.
Abundant.
Hartmannia speciosa (Nutt.)
Small.
S. B., No.
715, May, 1909.
In a cultivated field at Tuckers Town, very abundant.
Pimpinella aniseum L. S. B., No.
535, March, 1908.
On the tops of cliffs, St. George's Island.
Diospyros virginiana L. B. and B., No.
401, September, 1905.
Naturalized on the border of Warwick Marsh and spreading by suckers.
Gomphocarpus physocarpus E. Meyer.
S. B., No.
690, May, 1909.
Escaped to roadside St. David's Island.
Chiococca bermudiana n. sp.
A straggling, weak-stemmed shrub seldom more than a meter high.
Leaves lustrous coriaceous 5 to 12 cm.
long, 2 to 6 cm.
broad, elliptic to ovate, abruptly narrowed at both ends, acute or short acuminate at the apex, cuneate at the base; flowers numerous in racemose panicles, pedicels rather stout 4 to 6 mm.
long, hypanthium 1 to 1.5 mm.
long during anthesis, sepals triangular shorter than the calyx tube, slightly ciliate, corolla light yellow becoming darker with age, 8 to 10 mm.
long, tube funnel form, lobes ovate-lanceolate less than one-third the length of the tube, stamens at the base of the tube, filaments 1 mm.
long, anthers 2 to 5 mm.
long, style the length of the corolla tube; fruit subglobose pure white and lustrous, 7 to 8 mm.
long, slightly broader than long, flattened.
Type, B. and B., No.
181, September, 1905, in Herb.
A. N. S. Phila.
Shaded hillsides, north shore near Flatts.
Frequent throughout the Walsingham Tract from the Causeway to Tuckers Town and sparingly on the wooded hillsides through the central part of the island.
Differs from C. racemosa L., to which it is most nearly related, in the larger leaves, stouter and longer pedicels and larger berries.
Galium bermudense L. B. and B., No.
31, September, 1905.
Paget Sand Hills.
Hillsides and woods throughout the islands, though nowhere abundant.
i Galium aparine L. S. B., No.
461, March, 1908.
Cultivated ground.
Paynter's Vale.
S. B., 640, March, 1908.
Somerset Island.
Urospermum picroides (L.) Schmidt.
S. B., No.
695, May, 1909.
St. David's Island.
In the open ground generally distributed over the eastern end of the island.
Reichardia pioroides (L.) Roth.
S. B., No.
716, May, 1909.
Among the sand hills on the south shore a mile west of Tuckers Town.
Eupatorium adenophorum Spreng.
S. B., No.
541, March, 1908.
Roadside in St. George's, near the docks.
Erigei'on Darrellianus Hemsley.
B. and B. ; No.
26, September, 1905.
Rocks, north shore road, S. B.. No.
497, March, 1908.
Roadside near Harrington House, and No.
59S, March, 1908.
Wooded hillside near Tuckers Town.
On rocks and hillsides more or less generally distributed throughout the islands, varying from a low tufted plant a decimeter or less high to a much branched straggling shrub frequently more than a meter high, flowering during March and April and occasionally with a second flowering in the autumn.
Gnaphalium purpureum L. S. B., No.
588, March, 1908, and No.
672, May, 1909.
Top of cliffs, south shore, near Tuckers Town, fialinsoga parvifiora Cav.
S. B., No.
645, March, 1908.
A weed in the Public Gardens.
Achillea millefolia L. B. and B., No.
403, September, 1905.
Grassy woods, south shore road, Devonshire; also observed in cultivated ground near Hamilton.
1909.]
495 MOLLUSCA OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES, III: THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY and JAMES H. FERRISS.
The Huachuca Mountains stand in the southwest angle of Cochise county, Arizona, their southern foothills reaching over the international boundary.
The highest summits do not quite attain 10,000 feet.
Northward the Whetstone range looms up, a fine if arid mountain mass, as yet unexplored for shells.
On every side lies the desert, barren of molluscan life.
Our purpose is to give an account, incomplete as it now may be, of the molluscan life of this range.
1 The Huachucas have not yet been accurately mapped.
The sketch O Fort Huachuca ' Tanner.
Canon Brown Can'oni RAMiEr Canon Cars Canon rvrezUMA Canon Fig.
1.
Sketch-map of Huachuca Mountains.
1 A few new records are added of species taken in river drift at Benson, Cochise county, some distance northward from the Huachuca range.
These forms were derived from some other district.
Other records from Benson may be found in our Mollusca of the Southwestern States, II, 1906, and in Dall, Proc, U S Nat.
Mus., XIX, 1896. here given shows the general positions of localities mentioned in the text.
The first mollusks collected in the Huachucas were taken by a Mr. Cox, who sent some Helices to Dr. Isaac Lea many years ago, with the locality "Tucson."
These shells are what we now call Ashmunella varicifera.
Nothing is known of Cox beyond his name on the label.
At the time these shells were collected Tucson was no doubt the nearest settlement or post to the Huachucas, and hence was put down as the locality.
It is not unlikely that Cox picked up these shells in the course of a chase from the army post at Tucson after marauding Apaches.
Be this as it may, Ashmunella varicifera is an indubitable Huachucan snail, and was collected at a time when hostile and dangerous Indians occupied that country.
On the death of Dr. Lea the specimens came into the possession of the National Museum, where they are now preserved.
In 1880 Mr.
Bland described a snail, Triodopsis levettei (now Ashmunella levettei), collected by Dr. G. M. Levette, and thought to be from near Santa Fe, New Mexico.
Explorations in that region have shown that the Ashmunellas there are of a somewhat different type, and the true habitat of the species was not known until Mr. Ferriss rediscovered the species in the Huachucas, where it is restricted to the heads of certain canyons.
It is certain, therefore, that Dr. Levette had forgotten where he procured the original specimens, which are now in the American Museum of Natural History, New York.
The first snails actually reported from the Huachucas were collected by Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, U. S. A., a member of the party surveying the Mexican boundary in 1892-1894.
They were described by Dr. W. H. Dall in two papers, 2 published in 1895 and 1896.
Six species were obtained in the Huachuca range : 3 Polygyra levettei [ = Ashmunella I. angigyra].
Polygyra mearnsi [ = Ashmunella mearnsi].
Epiphragmophora hachitana, depressed variety from Tanner Canyon [ = Sonorella dalli].
Patula strigosa var.
[ = Oreohelix s. huachucana].
2 Diagnoses of new mollusks from the survey of the Mexican boundary, in Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XVIII, 1895, p. 1, and Report on the mollusks collected by the International Boundary Commission of the United States and Mexico, 1892-1894, same Proc, XIX, pp.
333-379.
3 Dr. Dall's pioneer work on southern Arizona shells was published prior to the anatomical researches which led to the establishment of new genera for the Helices of that region.
He had only dry shells to deal with, and hence followed the generic nomenclature current at that time.
Patula s. concentrata [ = Oreohelix s. concentrata], Cionella lubrica [ = Cochlicopa lubrica].
Several Huachucan species were figured by Mr. Paul Bartsch in his monograph of Sonorella, 1904, and S. dalli n. sp.
was described.
The seven species of snails mentioned above sum up all that was known of Huachucan mollusks prior to the visit of Mr. Ferriss in 1902.
In 1904 the range was again visited, 4 and again in 1907 Messrs. Ferriss and L. E. Daniels made extensive collections.
Dr. Henry Skinner, the well-known entomologist, made a useful collection of shells in Carr Canyon, in August, 1905, and Mr. C. R. Biederman has contributed a few species from the same place.
The present report is based upon practically all of the material ever collected in the Huachucas.
Through the unfailing kindness of Dr. Dall, the series in the National Museum has been examined.
Dr. Gratacap has permitted a re-examination of the types of Ashmunella levettei; and Dr. Bartsch has assisted with various helpful services.
HELICIDiE.
Genus SONORELLA Pils.
The Huachucan Sonorellas are all distinct specifically from those of other ranges.
So far as known anatomically, they belong to groups special to this range ; hence speak for a long isolation.
Omitting S. huachucana, which is unknown anatomically, the species of the Huachuca and Patagonia Mountains can be determined by this key: a.
— Penis long (about 40 mm.
in a shell 27 mm.
diam.
), with a short hollow papilla containing a tube; epiphallus long, 49-60 mm.
; flagellum present, S. dalli.
a 1 .
— Penis and epiphallus short, the former containing a fleshy, cylindric papilla over half the length of penis; flagellum vestigeal or wanting.
b.
— Vagina about as long as penis; spermatheca and duct about four times as long, S. rowelli.
b l .
— Vagina much longer than the penis; spermatheca and duct not differing greatly from vagina in length.
c. — Penis 5 to 7.5, papilla 3.3 to 5 mm.
long; upper part of vagina muscular, swollen, usually fusiform, S. gramdatissima.
c l .
— Penis 12 to 19, papilla 9 to 13 mm.
long; vagina slender, with a small fleshy node midway, .
.
S. danielsi.
*See Southwestern Shells, Nautilus, XVIII, Sept., 1904, pp.
49-52, and Mollusca of the Southwestern States, Proc.
A. N.S.
Phila., 1895, pp.
211-290.
Sonorella huaohucana Pilsbry.
PL XIX, figs.
16, 17.
S. virilis hiiachucana Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, p. 267, pi.
17, fig.
24.
This is a non-granulose species with conspicuous pale borders along the brown band.
We formerly thought it a subspecies of A. virilis of the Chiricahua range, but since all the other Helices of this range are specifically distinct, it is not likely that huachucana will prove an exception.
It comes from Brown's and Bear Canyons, and must be rare or very local.
None were taken in 1907.
The soft anatomy is unknown.
We therefore know nothing of its relationships with other species.
Fig.
16 represents a shell from Bear Canyon.
Fig.
17 the type from Brown's Canyon.
Group of S. dalli.
Sonorella dalli Bartsch.
Plate XIX, figs.
1, 2, 3.
Sonorella dalli Bartsch, Smiths.
Miscell.
Coll., Vol.
47, p. 193, pi.
31, fig.
1 (Oct. 10, 1904).
Epiphragmophora hachitana, depressed variety from Tanner Canyon, Dall, Proc.
U. S. N. M., XIX, pp.
339, 340, pi.
31, figs.
7, 10 (1896).
Specimens were taken only in Tanner Canyon, the type locality.
It is probably restricted to this place.
It is a fine species, distinguished by the broad, flattened shape, very open umbilicus and much deflexed last whorl.
The largest specimen taken measures 28 mm., the smallest 23 mm.
diameter.
Compared with &.
granulatissima latior, which also occurs in Tanner Canyon, *S. dalli is more openly umbilicate, the aperture is flattened above, the oblique sculpture is coarser.
In some old specimens the front edge of the parietal callus is thickened, a narrow ridge connecting the ends of the lip.
The penis (pi.
XXII, fig.
4) is extremely long, slightly enlarged distally, its walls thin, with most minute and close transverse ruga?.
It contains a smooth papilla, tapering to an obtuse apex, and about one-fifth the length of the penis.
The papilla is hollow with rather thin walls.
Within it a slender tube runs from the epiphallus to the apex, where it opens by a lateral pore.
This tube is lightly attached to the wall of the penis-papilla.
It is indicated by dotted lines in fig.
4.
The epiphallus is extremely long, terminating in a short flagellum.
The penis retractor muscle, 7 mm.
long, is inserted upon it 4 mm.
from the end of the penis.
The long vagina has a slender neck, enlarging moderately above.
The spermatheca is globular, on a duct much shorter than the penis.
In one specimen dissected it bears a minute diverticulum about 1 mm.
long, 2 mm.
from the base of the duct.
In another individual no diverticulum was found, so that it may possibly be abnormal or pathologic.
The measurements of the organs in two individuals preserved in formalin follow: No.
94,384.
No.
94,358.
Length of penis, 39 mm.
41 mm. "
penis-papilla, 8 " 9 " epiphallus, ....... 49 " 60 " flagellum, 4 " 3 " " vagina, 25 " " spermatheca and duct, .... 34 " 27 The jaw (pi.
XXII, fig.
6) has five strong ribs grouped in the middle half of its length.
The radula has about 41, 1, 41 teeth (pi.
XXII, fig.
8).
The central and lateral teeth have mesocones only; on the 17th an ectocone appears.
On the outer marginal teeth the inner cusp or sometimes both cusps are bifid, but the ectocone is not split into several cusps as in some other species.
The excessive length of penis and epiphallus, and especially the hollow, thin-walled papilla containing a separate duct or tube (a structure unique in the genus), are characters which set S. dalli apart from all other known Sonorellas.
It stands alone in its own line of differentiation.
Group of S. granulatissima.
These forms are closely related to the group of S. hachitana, but differ by the thick, quite cylindric penis-papilla, solid except for the minute perforation, and very obtuse or truncate at its distal end, and by having no flagellum or only a minute vestigeal one.
In the hachitana group the papilla tapers, at least at the distal end, and a minute but distinctly developed flagellum is present in known forms.
The distinction is only a small matter, but serves to distinguish the Huachucan forms.
S. rowelli (Newc), from a little farther west, belongs to the same group.
The dimensions of the genitalia in several specimens of each form are given in the accompanying table.
Most of the specimens were preserved in alcohol in the field, and some variation is doubtless traceable to various degrees of contraction.
500 [Nov., Species, Locality and Museum No.
Penis.
Papilla.
Epiphallus 1 FlagelValum.
1 gina.
Spermatheca and duct.
Diam.
of shell.
*S. granulatissima.
Ramsey, 83,257 7.3 6 5.5 6 6 5 7 7.5 18.5 15 12 13.5 4.8 4 4 3.5 4.5 3.3 5 6 0.7 21 24-25 28 22 19 Miller Cn 94 336 21 Carr Cn 90 404 16 18 S. g. latior.
Tanner Cn., 94,387 5 6 4 17 21 14 27 21 27.5 16 21-22 Brown Cn 94 356 18.5 Brown, w. fork, 94, 3£ 9 Salvation 94 395 18 20 Limestone Mt., 94,393 S. danielsi.
Head of Bear, 94,31S 5 Ditto 94 317 23 13 10 8.5 9 10 22 19 18.5 E fork Cave 94 352 17.5 19 19 Miller Pk., 94,337 10 25 18-19 Sonorella granulatissima Pilsbry.
PI.
XIX, figs.
7, 8, 9; pi.
XXI, figs.
1-4.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, p. 262, pi.
17, figs.
21-23; pi.
IS, figs.
41-43, 51-54.
The typical form is found in Ramsey (figs.
7, 8), Carr and Miller (fig.
9) Canyons.
Types were from Ramsey.
The shell is distinguished by its very dense beautiful granulation and the faintness or absence of spiral lines, though on some specimens they are present, but very weak.
I have examined the genitalia in a number of individuals from each of the three canyons mentioned above.
Figs.
1, 2, 3 represents one of the two cotypes.
Fig.
4 is from an example from Miller Canyon.
The chief feature is that the upper part of the vagina has thick muscular walls, the outer layer consisting of glossy circular muscular fibers.
Usually this part is more or less swollen and fusiform.
The lower part of the vagina is thin-walled.
This feature was conspicuous in every one of about 20 individuals of 12 lots of S. granulatissima and S. g. latior which were examined.
The penis is short, its length contained 3 or 4 times in that of the vagina.
It is abruptly truncate distally.
The penis-papilla is quite short, 3.3 to 5 mm.
long, cylindric, truncate at the end, and coarsely wrinkled.
It is fleshy, perforated by a minute pore, which opens at the end.
The rather short epiphallus has no flagellum in any example opened with the exception of one of the cotypes, in which there is a minute, vestigeal flagellum about 0.7 mm.
5 Measured from a fresh, drowned example.
long, and bound to the vas deferens by the outer muscular fascia.
As a rule, with rare exceptions, therefore, the flagellum is absent.
Sonorella granulatissima latior Pils.
PI.
XIX, figs.
4, 5, 6.
Proc.
A. N. S. P., 1905, p. 264, pi.
18, figs.
24-28.
Usually a larger shell than S. granulatissima, the last whorl more depressed, approaching S. dalli in shape.
Originally described from Brown's Canyon, it is now known also from the south side of Limestone Mountain, east fork Salvation Ridge 6 and from Tanner Canyon.
Three cotypes are figured.
The genitalia have been examined in numerous examples from Tanner Canyon (pi.
XXI, fig.
6), Brown's Canyon, east fork of Salvation Ridge and Limestone Mountain.
The characters are identical with those of S. granulatissima.
All of them have the upper part of the vagina swollen, and there is no flagellum.
Measurements of several alcoholic specimens are given in the table.
Fig.
2.
Marginal teeth of >S.
g. latior, Tanner Canyon.
The radula has 38, 1, 38 teeth, with 10 laterals.
The outer marginal teeth have the inner cusp deeply bifid, the outer one sometimes split (fig.
2, No.
94,383, Tanner Canyon).
Sonorella granulatissima parya Pils.
PI.
XIX, figs.
10, 11, 12.
No further information on this small race from the northwestern end of the range has been received.
S. mearnsi Bartsch, from 4 miles south of the international boundary, a few miles east of the San Pedro river, is another form which will probably prove to be closely allied to granulatissima and rowelli when the anatomy can be examined.
Sonorella danielsi n. ap.
PI.
XIX, figs.
13, 14, 15; pi.
XXI, figs.
5, 7.
S. granulatissima (in part), Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S. P., 1905, p. 263, pi.
18, figs.
39, 40, 44 ;pl.
11, fig.
10 (Miller Cn.
); also pi.
18, figs.
36,37,38 (IdaCn.).
The shell is more depressed than granulatissima, yellow with a conspicuous dark band without pale borders, the early whorls fleshcolored; surface glossy, the granulation of the last whorl very weak, 6 Salvation Ridge forms the divide between Brown and Tanner Canyons on the northeast side and what we supposed to be Salvation Camp Canyon on the south.
We collected only on the ridge, which is shown on the map at the heads of Brown and Tanner Canyons.
502 [Nov., nearly effaced, spiral incised lines well developed above the periphery.
Umbilicus wider than in granulatissima.
Alt.
10, diam.
19 mm.
; whorls 4^.
The animal is slaty-blackish, the back paler, brownish-gray, collar of mantle dark slate.
The sole is slate colored at the sides, the middle gray, but the areas are not bounded by lines.
The lung has faint venation ; pulmonary vein breaking up into several large branches.
Fig.
3.
Jaw and teeth of a cotype of Sonorella danielsi.
Genitalia.— -The penis is very large, stout, subcylindric, half the length of the vagina or longer.
It collapses at the base, where not filled by the papilla, and has several strong longitudinal folds inside.
It contains a long cylindric papilla which is abruptly truncate at the end and wrinkled throughout.
There is no flagellum.
The long vagina is rather slender throughout, with an annular swelling or node about midway of its length.
It is longitudinally rugose within, the rugae coalescent at the node.
Other organs as usual.
Fig.
7 was drawn from a drowned specimen which had not been in alcohol (No.
94,318).
The jaw has six or seven very low, wide ribs, parted by narrow intervals.
The radula has about 47, 1, 47 teeth.
In most rows the fifteenth tooth has an ectocone.
No marginal teeth with the ectocone bifid were seen.
The nineteenth tooth, in the radula figured, is abnormal.
One of the outer marginals is shown above it.
Types No.
94,318 A. N. S. P., from head of Bear Canyon; also Miller Peak and east fork of Cave Creek.
Similar forms, but with the ground-color not yellow but pale brown (as in granulatissima), occur in Ida Canyon, Cave Creek and Ash Canyon (pi.
XIX, fig.
18).
This species replaces granulatissima on the south side and east end of the Huachuca range.
It differs from S. granulatissima chiefly in the genitalia, the larger penis and the shape of the vagina being constant features in the series of both species dissected.
Specimens have been dissected from five lots, from the head of Bear Canyon (fig.
7), east fork of Cave, and from Miller Peak (fig.
5).
One individual of several from the latter place seems to have the very minute bud-like vestige of a nagellum.
The shell will be recognized by its yellow, glossy surface and depressed shape.
The brownish forms from Ida and Ash Canyons, mentioned above, require more study, with better fresh or alcoholic material than we can command at this time.
One from Ash Canyon is figured, fig.
18.
Named in honor of Mr. L. E. Daniels, who accompanied Mr. Ferriss in the expedition of 1907.
Genus ASHMUNELLA Pils.
and Ckll.
The Ashmunellas of the Huachuca range, while very diverse in appearance, belong to a single closely related group.
Probably all descended from an ancestral stock not unlike A. levettei angigyra, the most widely distributed form, and the one showing most affinity to species of the Chiricahua and other ranges.
The common ancestry of the whole series is demonstrated by the intermediate stages found among the shells, and by the soft anatomy, which is so much alike in all that it would probably be impossible to tell the species apart without the shells, yet differing characteristically from the soft parts of all Ashmunellas of the Chiricahuas or other ranges by the sacculated or varicose spermatheca and the shape of the penis.
The species and races form a beautiful chain of variations, pretty completely connecting those having most complicated apertures with those in which the aperture is toothless, thus: bifurca — levettei — ursina — heterodonta — varicifera.
Evolution has proceeded from fully toothed apertures towards toothless apertures.
In other words it has been retrogressive, marked by degeneration of complex structures.
Soft Anatomy of Ashmunella.
— Time has not admitted a full examination of the anatomy, but the genitalia of many individuals have been studied.
These organs are so similar in all of the forms that one description will suffice.
The penis (P.) is rather large for an Ashmunella.
Inside it has six unequal fleshy longitudinal ridges, interrupted in the middle (pi.
XX, fig.
6).
This point is marked externally by a slight constriction.
The epi phallus (epi.)
is very long, terminating in a minute flagellum (/?.).
The retractor muscle (rp.)
504 [Nov., is attached to the epiphallus, but sends down a band to the apex of the penis.
The vas deferens (vd.)
is very long and free.
The vagina is short.
Spermatheca (sp.)
is not distinctly divided into head and duct.
The distal two-thirds or more is of about equal caliber, and distinctly varicose or sacculated.
The proximal portion is a little contracted.
This form of spermatheca is special to the Huachucan species, and unlike those of other districts.
The other organs show no peculiar features.
The dimensions of the organs in millimeters are as follows : Species.
A.angigijra, Ramsey Cn A.angigi/ra, east fork I Salvation I A. bifurca, Tanner Cn s A .
ursina < A. ursina, Bear Cn A. heterodonta, Cave Creek A. microdonta, Cave Creek A. varicifera, Wickersham J Rock I Penis.
6 5 5 4.
7 8 5 7 8 7.
6 Epiphallus and flagellum .
24 28 28 34 31 42 43 46 34 40 35 29 Flagellum.
1.3 1.5 1.5 1 1.5 1.8 Vagina.
I 3 4.5 4 4 4 3.5 4 5 7.5 5 4 SpermDiam atheca and duct .
22 22.5) 21 ) 29 1 28 26 32 24 26 27 25 of shell.
13-14 15 16-18 16 16 19 18 17 Museum No.
83,269 94,396 94,388 94,351 94,349 94,350 94,347 94,340 94,341 All the specimens were measured from alcoholic preparations except A. levettei ursina, 94,349, which was dissected fresh.
The figures on plate XX represent the following species : A. levettei ursina, No.
94,351, head of Bear Canyon (pi.
XX, fig.
1).
A. levettei ursina, No.
94,349, head of Bear Canyon (pi.
XX, fig.
4).
Atrium protruding.
A, I. angigyra, No.
83,269, Ramsey Canyon; type lot (pi.
XX, fig.
2).
A. I. heterodonta, No.
94,350, head of Cave Creek.
A. microdonta, No.
94,347, head of Cave Creek; type lot (pi.
XX, fig.
7).
A. varicifera, No.
94,340 and 94,341, Miller Peak, Ash Canyon side (pi.
XX, fig.
3).
Atrium protruding.
Fig.
6, the penis opened.
Fig.
5, spermatheca of another individual.
1909.]
505 Ashmnnella varicifera Ancey.
Fig.
4.
Polygyra chiricahuana, in part, Dall, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XIX, pi.
32, figs.
9, 10, 12.
A. chiricahuana var.
varicifera Anc, Journ.
of Malacology, VIII, Sept. 30, 1901, p. 77 (near Tucson, Cox).
.4.
/.
heterodonta or chiricahuana, Pilsbrv, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 190.5, p. 242, pi.
15, figs.
94, 95.
The shell is depressed, the spire low, varying from convex to lowconoidal, the periphery of the last whorl situated above the middle, obtusely subangular in front.
Color rather light-brown and opaque; or corneous-brown and somewhat transparent (sometimes pure white).
Surface rather glossy, lightly marked with growth-lines and faint traces of incised spiral lines.
Umbilicus rather narrow but open.
Aperture oblique, at about 45° with the axis.
Peristome rather narrow, Fig.
4.
AshmuneUa varicifera Ancey.
reflexed, recurved at the edge, having a low, indistinct thickening of the inner rim of the outer lip, and sometimes the very slight indication of an outer basal tooth.
At resting stages young shells form a callous thickening within the lip, which shows through as a radial streak in some adult shells.
Alt.
8, diam.
16V to 17 mm.
; whorls 5^. "
10^, " 18V " " 6.
South side of Miller Canyon near its head; Wickersham Rock, Miller Peak, and in the east fork of Cave Creek Canyon; also a mountain on the south side of the mouth of Ash Canyon.
These localities, except the last, are indicated by three areas of vertical shading on the map.
Miller Peak is about 9,800 feet high.
This species has not been fully described before.
The "varices" to which the name is due are only occasionally present in adult shells.
They are also seen in A. chiricahuana, which is so similar that until now the Chiricahuan and Huachucan snails were supposed to belong to one species.
The soft anatomy shows at once that we have to do with two species.
A. varicifera has genitalia exactly like A. levettei except that the epiphallus is somewhat shorter.
The spermatheca is not differentiated from its duct, the whole form a long somewhat 33 506 [Nov.. varicose cylindric body, while in chiricahuana the duct is extremely long, swollen at the end.
The proportions vary widely in the two species, as follows : A. varicifera.
A. chiricahuana Length of penis, epiphallus and flagellum, 37 to 44 mm.
73 mm.
Length of spermatheca and duct, .
.
.
25 to 27 " 56 " Length of vagina, 4 to 5 " 9 '" The size of the shells is about equal.
It appears from this that A. varicifera is a simplified member of the A. levettei stock, while A. chiricahuana belongs to another group of species.
The type locality of A. chiricahuana is Fly Park, Chiricahua Mountains.
Extract from Mr. Ferriss' Field Notes.
— On the Cave Creek side we found A. varicifera larger than the lot from Wickersham's Rock on the peak, and generally albino.
Out of one hole containing 29, only two were dark colored.
On the other side of the east fork of Cave Creek they were larger but all dark.
On the south side of the range there is a strong tendency to albinism in the Ashmunellas, Sonorellas and Oreohelix.
Ashmunella miorodonta a. sp.
Fig.
5.
The shell resembles A. varicifera in general appearance, but differs by having fewer whorls, the last wider viewed from above; umbilicus much wider, exposing more of the penultimate whorl.
The lip is toothless except for a very low vestige in tne basal margin in some specimens; but there is a minute tubercular parietal tooth in over Fig.
5.
Asmunella microdonta.
Cotype.
half of those examined, while it is perceptible as a faint thickening in all.
The shell is chestnut colored, usually with one or two varixstreaks on the base; lip white or with its upper half reddish-brown.
Alt 9.5 8.6 8.8 8.2 mm.
Diam 20 19 19 17 Whorls 5i 5i 5 J 5$ " 1909.]
507 Cave Creek Canyon, for one-eighth of a mile at the head.
This is another modification of the levettei stock, differing from heterodonta and varicifera by its wider umbilicus and less closely coiled whorls, from the former by deficient lip teeth, and from the latter by the usual presence of a minute parietal tooth.
In genitalia it does not differ from typical levettei.
While not conspicuously differentiated, we have thought it well to give the form specific rank.
Ashmunella levettei heterodonta Pils.
Fig.
6.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, 241, pi.
15, figs.
81-91. p. 51.
Nautilus, XVIII, This form has the shape of A. levettei, and typically has a low, straight-topped tooth within the outer lip, a small tubercular tooth at junction of outer and basal margins, and a faint prominence in the position of an inner basal tooth.
The parietal tooth is minute or wanting.
There are barely over 6 whorls, which therefore are a little wider than in A. levettei.
We have elsewhere noted the extreme variability of the teeth in heterodonta.
They may be much more developed than described above, or so degenerate that only faint traces of teeth are discernible.
A form-chain connecting levettei and varicifera exists.
Whether hybridism plays a part here remains uncertain.
Fig.
6.
Ashmunella levettei heterodonta.
Cotype.
This form occurs in the heads of Ida and Cave Canyons.
In one place heterodonta goes over the divide two or three hundred feet, but in no other case do these species cross to the other side of the range.
A. levettei or heterodonta are not found in varicifera territory.
There is no mingling of Ashmunellas except large and small forms of levettei.
The peculiarities of habit, variation, etc., of the Ashmunellas, Oreohelices, etc., is worthy of a year's study in the Huachucas.
The area 50S [Nov., of heterodonta is marked H on the map.
Cave Creek Canyon, like that of the same name in the Chiricahna range, has a large basin and many branches.
Ashmunella levettei ursina n. subsp.
Fig.
7.
A. levettei Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, p. 23S, pi.
15, figs.
72-78.
The shell is like A. levettei, capacious and glossy.
The aperture is less obstructed by the teeth.
The parietal tooth is smaller, straight, not curving inward at the axial end, or almost imperceptibly so, and without an outer branch running towards the upper insertion of the lip.
Alt.
9, diam.
18, diam.
aperture 8.5 mm.
; whorls fully 6^.
7.2 16 mm.
; whorls 6^.
Fig.
7.
Ashmunella levettei ursina.
Type.
Head of Bear Canyon, about 7,500 feet elevation.
Types No.
87,089 A. X.
8.
P. It also occurs in the head of Miller Canyon.
In Bear Canyon there are many beautiful albino specimens, occurring with others of the normal chestnut color.
The range of ursina lies westward from that of heterodonta.
This is the race formerly referred by us to typical .4. levettei.
Ashmunella levettei (Bland).
Fig.
8.
Triodopsis levettei Bland, Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, II, 1882, p. 115, cuts.
Binney, Manual of American Land Shells, p. 385, fig.
410.
Gratacap, Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., XIV, p. 383.
The type specimen of this species (fig.
8) was supposed to come from Santa Fe Canyon, New Mexico, but it is distinctly of Huachucan type.
The periphery is rounded.
The glossy surface is marked with fine growth-wrinkles, and on the last whorl very fine and very faint spiral line-;.
The parietal callus is distinct, but thin at the edge.
The parietal tooth is long, high, straight, but at the axial end it becomes low and curves strongly inward.
From the distal end of the tooth a 1909.]
509 low but distinct branch runs towards the outer termination of the Up This branch is brownish, like the callus it rests upon, hence might easily be overlooked.
The outer lip-tooth is slightly emarginate at the top, and curves inward.
The outer basal tooth is compressed and larger than the inner one, which is also somewhat compressed.
Alt.
8, diam.
16 mm.
; diam.
of aperture 7.9 mm.
; whorls 6^.
Description and figure from the type specimen, No.
1,274 of the Binney and Bland Collection, American Museum of Natural History, New York.
We owe the opportunity of studying this specimen to the kindness of Dr. L. P. Gratacap.
Some specimens from Miller Canyon are identical in characters with the type of levettei.
It probably was collected in that canyon.
In Carr Canyon there is a similar race having some differential characters.
Dr. Henry Skinner collected a series of several hundred shells.
They were taken about midway of the canyon as shown in the map.
These shells vary in size: Alt.
6, diam.
13 mm.
; whorls 6\. "
7 " 13 " " 6$. "
7.5 " 15 " diam.
aperture 7 mm.
; whorls 6^.
The last whorl is rather depressed and periphery is slightly angular in front, these being the main differences from typical A. levettei.
In some specimens the shape of the aperture and of the parietal tooth is exactly as in levettei, but most examples have the aperture smaller, the lip-ends approaching somewhat more, and connected by the thickened edge of the parietal callus.
The parietal tooth almost always is recurved at the axial end, and bears a more or less distinct recurrent branch from the distal end, as in levettei.
In some examples, however, the parietal tooth is straight and there is no perceptible outer branch; the upper margin of the lip descends more deeply on the parietal wall than in the type of levettei.
The young snails form a very thick lipcallus at resting stages.
Fig.
s. A, (Bland).
hmunella levettei Type specimen.
510 [Nov., This CanCanyon race is intermediate between typical levettei and hi f urea.
Ashmunella levettei bifurca n. subsp.
In Tanner Canyon the shells resemble those of Carr Canyon.
They are glossy, dark chestnut colored, depressed, the last whorl angular in front.
The aperture is small, the lip-ends connected by a distinct, often heavy parietal cord.
The outer lip-tooth is pushed farther back into the mouth.
The parietal tooth curves inward at its axial end, and usually gives off a distinct branch from the distal end, though this may be weak or wanting in some examples.
The umbilicus is usually wider than in other forms of levettei.
The whorls coil closelv.
Fig.
9.
Ashmunella levettei bifurca.
Type.
Alt.
6.6. diam.
15, diam.
of aperture 6.9 mm., whorls fully 6i.
This race is intensified in the development of apertural teeth.
A. mearnsi (Dall) is more depressed and has less numerous, less closely coiled whorls.
The spermatheca is more slender, scarcely sacculate or less conspicuously so than in other Huachucan species, and is a little enlarged towards the end, the lower part of the duct slender.
Ashmunella levettei angigyra Pils.
Proc.
A. X. S.
Phila., 1905, p. 240, pi.
14, figs.
47-54 (shell); pi.
21, fig.
2S (genitalia); pi.
22, lig.
12 (teeth); pi.
23, fig.
14 (jaw).
Smaller, more depressed than levettei, and more or less angular at the periphery, teeth contracting the aperture more.
The types, described and illustrated as above cited, were from Ramsey Canyon (called "Conservatory Canyon" in the original paper).
Those from northwestward and along the warm dry slopes of the ridge are more typical of the race, being smaller and more angular.
The parietal tooth is straight and rather small, without an outer branch.
It occurs along the northeastern side of the range from northwest to southeast as follows : Babokomari Creek; FortHuachuca; Tanner Canyon, over the range, west fork, and along cliffs south of the canyon; Brown's Canyon; Limestone Mountain, 9,000 feet; Ramsey Canyon ; also over the range on the f oothills of Bear Canyon at about 5,000 feet, where it is very widely separated from other known localities, and very small, diam.
9.5 to 11 mm.
The race from Carr Canyon is intermediate between angigyra and levettei in size and shape of the last whorl.
The examples from LimeAshmunella levettei angigyra.
Cotype.
stone Mountain and Salvation Ridge approach those of Carr Canyon in size and apertural teeth, and would probably be grouped with that race rather than with typical angigyra, if the two be separable.
A. I. angigyra is the common and widely distributed Ashmunella of the Huachucas.
The other forms are very local.
The epi phallus is curiously flattened, dumbbell-shaped in section in several individuals (alcoholic) from east fork of Salvation Canyon, and the lower part of the spermatheca duct is slender.
Ashmunella mearnsi (Dall).
Polygyra mearnsi Dall, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XVIII, 1895, p. 2 (Hachita Grande and Huachuca Mountains) ; XIX, 1896, p. 343, pi.
32, figs.
7, 8, 11.
This species was described as from two widely separated localities.
It differs from all other Huachucan species by having fewer, less closely coiled whorls.
In these features it belongs to a small group of forms from southwestern New Mexico, composed of A. walker i Ferriss and A. kochi Clapp.
We have much to learn about the snails of these alluring desert mountains, but it seems likely that there was a mistake in the locality Huachuca Mountains, and that the species really came from the Hacheta Grande Mountains only.
Genus OREOHELIX Pilsbry.
The Huachucan Oreohelices have been described and illustrated as fully as possible to us in the first paper of this series.
Oreohelix strigosa concentrata (Dall).
Carr Canyon, 7,000 feet ; Limestone Mountain, 8,000 feet ; Miller Peak, Ash Canyon.
The shells from Miller Peak are rather openly umbilicate and have a peculiar fades.
Some greenish-white ones remind one of Circinaria concava.
Oreohelix strigosa huachucana (Pils.).
Ramsey, Brown, Carr, Miller, Cave Creek and Ida Canyons; north side of Miller Peak.
Genus THYSANOPHORA Strobel.
Thysanophora hornii (Gabb).
Manilla mine, near the northwest end of the range, UROCOPTIDiE.
Holospira ferrissi Pils.
Manilla mine, near the northwest end of the range.
The locality Fort Bowie, formerly cited by us, was an error.
LIMACIO^E.
Agriolimax hemphilli ashmuni Pilsbry and Vanatta.
Nautilus, XXII, p. 108.
Limaces are rare in Arizona, but Mr. Ashmun took specimens at Nogales, Pima county, 4,000 ft. elevation, and they were found by one of us in Miller, Brown and Tanner Canyons in the Huachucas.
These slugs belong to the very widely distributed group of Agriolimax Icevis, but we have not been able to refer them directly to any described race.
By the development of entocones on the lateral teeth they differ from A. campestris (including montanus Ing.
), and agree with A. hemphilli (Binney), 7 A. stenurus (Strebel) 8 and A. berendti (Strebel).
9 Whether these forms are specifically distinct or not remains to be determined.
Their distinctive characters do not seem important.
The alcoholic specimens from Miller Canyon have the general aspect externally of A. campestris.
The rounded back is black, flanks sooty brown.
The mantle is large, and more than half of it is free, so that when lifted and turned back it more than covers the posterior adnate portion.
Under it the surface is yellowish.
The sole is very narrow, conspicuously tripartite.
The central tooth is tricuspid.
Laterals have a small entocone elevated on the side of the mesocone; ectocone 7 Limax hemphilli W. G. Binney.
Third Supplement to Terrestrial Mollusks, V, 1890, p. 201, pi.
1, fig.
13; pi.
2, fig.
3; pi.
8, fig.
e (Julian City, Cal.).
Fourth Supplement, p. 166, pi.
3, fig.
1 (var.
pictus Ckll., San To mas River, L.
Cal.).
8 Limax stenurus Strebel, Beitrag Mex.
Land und Siisswasser Conchyl., IV, 1880, p. 21 (State of Vera Cruz, Mexico).
• Limax berendti Strebel, t. c, p. 22 (Coban, Guatemala).
Cf.
also L. jalapensis Strebel, /.
c.
1909.]
513 well developed.
There are 13 lateral teeth, the 13th being transitional to the marginals, which are simple, thorn-shaped.
Jaw as usual.
The penis is large, much twisted, terminates in an obtuse "flagellum" or blind sack, and it has a fleshy sensory papilla in the anterior enlargement, shown by dotted lines in fig.
8 c. In front of this enlargement it is very slender.
It has an extremely slender retractor muscle (p.r.).
Other organs as usual in the group.
Examples from Tanner Canyon have the same genitalia, but differ Fig.
11.
Agriolimax hemphilli ashmuni.
a, b, alimentary canal and genitalia of a specimen from Nogales.
c, genitalia of the type from Miller Canyon.
in external color.
They are pale soiled buff, with a slightly darker reticulation back of the mantle, which is closely flecked with gray.
These slugs are therefore not unlike A. hemphilli pictus Ckll.
According to Mr. Binney, A. hemphilli has 50, 1, 50 teeth with 10 laterals.
This is somewhat unlike our slug, which has more lateral teeth, though of the same shape; moreover, the penis of A. hemphilli seems to differ from the Arizona form, which occurs in a region otherwise wholly diverse in its mollusk population.
A. stenurus and A. berendti of Strebel belong to the tropical fauna.
Since the Arizona form differs materially in dentition from the described alpine slugs of Colorado, we have thought it safest to give a special name to the mountain slug of Arizona, until such time as the several forms can be actually compared by some observer, and their relations to one another elucidated.
The types of A. hemphilli ashmuni are No.
94,366 A. N. S. P., from Miller Canyon, Huachuca Mountains.
ENDODONTICS.
Pyramidula (Gonyodiscus) oronkhitei (Newc).
Wickersham's, Miller Peak; Carr Canyon.
Pyramidula (Gonyodiscus) shimeki cockerelli Pils.
"Reef," Carr Canyon, at 5,000 feet (C. R. Biederman).
Radiodiscus raillecostatus Pils.
and Ferr.
Carr Canyon; Miller Peak, near the top and on the north side, and in Wickersham's Gulch ; Wickersham's.
Helicodiscus eigenmanni arizonensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Found in 1904, no special locality recorded.
ZONITID^.
Zonitoides arborea (Say).
Wickersham's Rock, Miller Peak; Tanner Canyon; Ash Canyon.
Zonitoides minuscula (Binn.).
Wickersham's, Miller Peak; Tanner Canyon; Benson.
Zonitoides minuscula alachuana (Dall).
Ash Canyon; Wickersham's.
Zonitoides milium meridionalis Pils.
and Ferr.
Wickersham's.
Vitrea indentata umbilicata (Ckll.).
Tanner Canyon; Wickersham Gulch; Miller Canyon, one very large example, diam 6.7 mm.
; Ash Canyon.
Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils.
Wickersham's rock, Miller Peak.
Vitrina alaskana Dall.
Wickersham's, Miller Peak.
SUCCINEIDiE Sucoinea avara Say.
Tanner and Ash Canyons.
VALLONIID^.
Vallonia perspeotiva Sterki.
Tanner, Pine and Ash Canyons; Wickersham's, Miller Peak.
Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey.
Wickersham's, Miller Peak.
PTJPILLID^].
10 Pupilla hebes (Ancey).
Wickersham's, Miller Canyon.
|° Pupoides hordacea (Gabb) and Pupilla syngenes (Pils.)
were found in rivei drift at Benson.
Of the latter both dextral and sinistral shells, one of each.
Bifidaria quadridentata Sterki.
Wickersham's, Miller Canyon.
One specimen.
Bifidaria ashmuni Sterki.
Ash Canyon.
Bifidaria cochisensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Tanner Canyon, abundant.
This form and the following will be described in the next paper of this series, in connection with a general review of the group of B. ashmuni.
Bifidaria cochisensis oligobasodon Pils.
and Ferr, Ash Canyon.
Bifidaria pilsbryana Sterki.
Wickersham's, Miller Peak.
Bifidaria tappaniana (C. B.
Ad.).
Tanner Canyon, 6,000 feet; also San Pedro drift at Benson.
11 Vertigo ovata Say.
Ash Canyon; Tanner Canyon, 6,000 feet; also San Pedro drift at Benson.
Vertigo modesta parietalis Anc.
Wickersham's, Miller Peak.
Vertigo conoinnula Ckll.
Wickersham's, Miller Peak; one immature shell.
Vertigo milium Gld.
Tanner Canyon, 6,000 feet; drift of San Pedro river at Benson.
FERUSSACID^J.
Cochlicopa lubrioa (Mull.).
Tanner Canyon, 6,000 feet; Carr Canyon; Wickersham's, Miller Peak.
LYMN^ID^].
Lymnaea parva Lea.
Ash Canyon; a few very young specimens.
PHYSID^J.
Physa virgata Gld.
Small, slender, long-spired examples, clearly of the virgata type, were taken in Tanner Canyon, in a spring at about 6000 ft. 11 Bifidaria pentodon (Say) was taken in San Pedro drift at Benson, Cochise •county, Arizona.
AMNICOLID^.
Paludestrina stearnsiana Pils.
Ash Canyon, one bleached specimen; spring in Tanner Canyon, numerous living examples.
PELEOYPODA.
Pisidium abditum huachucanum Pils.
and Ferr.
Stream in Carr Canyon (C. R. Biederman, type loc); spring in CanCanyon, 7,000 feet; springs in Tanner Canyon at 6,000 and 7,000 feet ; spring at the mouth of Ash Canyon, 4,500 feet ; artificial pond at the mouth of Hunter Canyon, 4,500 feet (L. E. Daniels, October, 1907).
This is, we believe, the only Pisidium recorded from Arizona.
Explanation of Plates XIX to XXI.
Plate XIX.
— Figs.
1, 2, 3 — Sonorella dalli Bartsch.
Tanner Canyon.
Figs.
4, 5, 6 — Sonorella granulatissima latior Pils.
Cotypes.
Figs.
7, 8 — Sonorella granulatissima Pils.
Cotypes.
Fig.
9 — Sonorella granulatissima Pils.
Miller Canyon.
Figs.
10, 11, 12 — Sonorella granulatissima parva Pils.
Cotypes.
Figs.
13, 14, 15 — Sonorella danielsi Pils.
and Ferr.
Cotypes.
Fig.
16 — Sonorella huachueana Pils.
Bear Canyon.
Fig.
17 — Sonorella huachueana Pils.
Type.
Fig.
18 — Sonorella danielsi P. and F., brown variety.
Ash Canyon, Xo.
94,385.
Plate XX.
— Fig.
1 — Ashmunella levettei vrsina Pils.
and Ferr.
No.
94,351.
Fig.
2— Ashmunella I. angigyra Pils.
No.
83,269.
Fig.
3 — Ashmunella varicifera Anc.
No.
94,341.
Fig.
4 — Ashmunella levettei ursina P. and F. No.
94,349.
Atrium and ends of penis and vagina protruding.
Fig.
5 — Ashmunella varicifera Anc.
Spermatheca of another individual.
Fig.
6 — Ashmunella varicifera Anc.
Penis opened.
Fig.
7 — Ashmunella microdonta Pilsbry and Ferriss.
No.
94,347.
One of the cotypes.
Plate XXL — Fig.
1 — Sonorella granulatissima Pils.
No.
83,257.
Cotype.
Fig.
2 — Ditto.
Penis opened to show papilla.
Fig.
3 — Ditto.
Penis, epiphallus and flagellum.
Fig.
4— Ditto.
No.
94,336.
Miller Canyon.
Fig.
5 — Sonorella danielsi Pilsbry and Ferriss.
No.
94,337.
Fig.
6 — Sonorella danielsi Pilsbry and Ferriss.
No.
94,318.
Type.
Fig.
7 — Sonorella g. latior Pils.
"No.
94,387.
Tanner Canyon.
Plate XXII.
— Figs.
1, 2, 3 — Sonorella rinconensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Central,, lateral and marginal teeth.
Fig 4 — Sonorella rinconensis.
Tvpe, genitalia.
X 2.
Fig.
5— Sonorella dalli Bartsch.
'No.
94,384, genitalia.
X 2.
Fig.
S—Sonorella dalli Bartsch.
Jaw.
A NEW SONORELLA FROM THE RINCON MOUNTAINS ARIZONA.
BY H. A. PILSBRY and J. H. FERRISS.
The Rincon Mountains lie near the western border of Cochise County, Arizona, north of the Whetstone Mountains, which are north of the Huachuca range.
In 1907 one of us (Mr. Ferriss) visited the range and procured specimens of a large Sonorella, the first mollusk known from these mountains.
Fig.
1.
Sonorella rinconensis.
Cotypes, nat.
size.
Where visited the range is rather dry.
The rock is granitic, of pre-Cambrian age.
l Besides Sonorella rinconensis onty a few shells were taken, minute forms common to the region.
Sonorella rinconensis was found sticking to large rocks and boulders, a habit not hitherto noticed in the genus.
They are rare, the biggest bag made being six in one day.
Sonorella rinconensis n. sp.
PI.
XXII, figs.
1-4, 7.
The shell resembles S. ashmuni Bartsch in shape.
It is pale brown fading to white around the umbilicus, with a broad chocolate shoulderband, widely whitish-bordered above and below.
The surface is smoothish, marked with delicate growth-lines, and under the lens some faint spiral lines may be traced on the last whorl near the suture.
The embryonic whorls have sculpture of the S. hachitana type.
The whorls increase rather slowly to the last, which is much widened, and well rounded peripherally.
It descends a little in front.
The aperture is rotund-lunate; peristome slightly expanded, dilated at the columella as usual.
Umbilicus about as in S. ashmuni.
Alt.
16, diam.
26.5, width of umbilicus 4 mm.
; whorls fully 5.
The penis is extremely long and slender, and contains a very long papilla.
Its lower end is enveloped in a sheath.
The retractor 1 Cf.
W. P. Blake, Some Salient Features in the Geology of Arizona, with Evidences of Shallow Seas in Paleozoic Time, American Geologist, Vol.
27, 1901 p. 160. muscle is inserted distally on the lung-floor, as usual.
The vagina is excessively long, longer than the penis, and of about equal diameter throughout (slightly over 1 mm.).
The spermatheca is globular, its duct much shorter than the vagina.
The organs of an individual drowned and dissected fresh measure as follows: Length of penis, 55 mm. "
" papilla, 31 " " sheath, 7 " epiphallus, 22 " flagellum, 1.2 " " vagina, 70 " " spermatheca and duct, 31 " The liver is maroon colored when fresh.
Types No.
94,313 A. N. S. P., from Rincon Peak, Rincon Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona; cotypes in coll.
Ferriss.
Specimens were also taken on Mt.
Mica and Wrong Mountain, Rincon range.
The jaw (pi.
XXII, fig.
7) has six or seven strong ribs, projecting on both margins.
The radula has 26, 15, 1, 15, 26 teeth (pi.
XXII, figs.
1, 2, 3).
The central and lateral teeth are unicuspid, the cusps stout and obtuse, longer than the basal plates.
At about the sixteenth tooth an ectocone appears.
Towards the outer edge of the radula the inner cusp becomes bifid; and in many but not all of the outermost six or eight marginals the ectocone is split into two or three denticles (fig.
3).
Conchologically this form stands very close to S. ashmuni Bartsch, from Richinbar, south of Prescott, Arizona; also found at Jerome, and at Purtyman's ranch on Oak Creek, 40 miles from Jerome.
It would probably be scarcely possible to separate the two species by the shells alone.
The genitalia, however, are widely diverse.
S. ashmuni (Oak Creek) has genitalia of the type found in hachitcwia-like Sonorellas of the Peloncillo, Florida and Dos Cabezas ranges, while S. rinconensis has the penis and vagina excessively lengthened While quite unlike any known form, it seems nearer to S. virilis than to other species which have been dissected, but differs from that by its far shorter penis-papilla and by the vagina, which is much longer than the penis, while in S. virilis the penis is longer.
Plate XXII.
— Figs.
1, 2, 3 — Sonorella rinconensis Pils.
and Ferr.
Central lateral and marginal teeth.
Fig.
4 — Sonorella rinconensis.
Type, genitalia.
X 2.
Fig.
5— Sonorella dalli Bartsch.
No.
94,384, genitalia.
X 2 Fig.
6 — Sonorella dalli Bartsch.
Jaw.
Fig.
7 — Sonorella rinconensis.
Jaw.
Fig.
8 — Sonorella dalli.
Teeth.
MELANIID.E OF THE PANUCO RIVER SYSTEM, MEXICO.
BY H. A. PILSBRY and A.
A. HINKLEY.
The Pachycheili of the Panuco River system are all, so far as known, special to that drainage.
* These waters are remarkably rich in fine species, which though not so large as some from Central America, are more varied in shape and sculpture.
In a few species the spire is so short that the shell has a globular or oval shape, like Anculosa or Paludomus ; yet in the structure of the aperture and operculum these aberrant forms agree with more normal species of the same region.
One species, P. pleurotoma, has a Pleurotomoid sinus in the outer lip, somewhat like that of P. dalli Pils., but situated farther up.
The whole group of the Panuco drainage differs from the southern forms of Pachycheilus in the weakness or absence of the regular and close microscopic spiral striation characteristic of the typical species.
The shells are generally abundant.
Of most of the forms several hundred shells at least of each species have been examined.
All were collected by Mr. Hinkley during the past winter.
The descriptions are the joint work of both authors.
The figures are natural size.
Cotypes of the new forms are in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and of Mr. Hinkley.
Since many of the localities mentioned herein are not indicated on maps available in this country, we give here a sketch of the lower portion of the Panuco River System.
2 1 It is possible that P. pluristriatus is an exception, but the record of that species from a West Mexican lake seems improbable.
2 Localities where mollusca were collected during the whiter of 1908 and 1909 are marked on the map with numerals.
These numbered stations are as follows: No.
1.
LaBarra. "
2.
Tampico. "
3.
Cave from which the Choy River issues. "
4.
Taninul, flag station for Hot Spring. "
5.
Hot Spring. "
6.
Catamas Lake. "
7.
Pujal Lake. "
8.
El Abra. "
9.
Valles Station. "
10.
Valles. "
11.
Small falls of the Valles River. "
12.
Ranch of Mr. Willis. "
13.
Chaimi Creek. "
14.
Pujal, Pujal ferry and ford. "
15.
Ford or ferry of the Coy River. "
16.
Alligator Lake. "
17.
First rill in the mountains south of Valles.
520 [Nov., a Baku* MPICO i Fig.
1.
Map of a portion of the Panuco River system, showing localities mentioned in this paper.
I\ T o.
18.
Second rill in the mountains.
19.
Tampamolon.
20.
Ford and ferry of Moctezuma River.
21.
Creek near the ford of Moctezuma River.
22.
Tancanhutz.
23.
Choy ranch.
24.
Casas Viejas River.
25.
Coxcantlan.
26.
Mecos (Micos) and Mecos falls.
27.
Rapids above Mecos.
Lagoon five miles west of Mecos.
Lagoon between mountains, no outlet.
Bluffs north of San Dieguito.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41, San Dieguito.
Cave.
Bluff southwest of San Dieguito.
Ganina River.
Tributary of Ganina River.
Rascon.
Tamosopo.
Mill of Tamosopo Sugar Co. Natural Bridge and Verastagu.
Canyon.
Las Canoas.
According to the railroad map, the elevation of Valles is about 200 feet above the sea; El Abra, 700 feet; Mecos, over 1,000 feet; Tamosopo, 1,300 feet; Los Canoas, 3,300 feet.
Paohycheilus pila n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, figs.
1-5.
The shell is solid and strong, irregularly globose, black, smooth but for inconspicuous growth-lines (except the very young shells which are delicately, closely striate spirally); spire very short, mainly eroded in adult shells, but concavely acuminate when preserved in the young.
Only 2 or 3 whorls remain in adult shells, the last very globose throughout, more or less flattened below the suture near the aperture.
The aperture is large, black within; outer Up thin, much more arcuate than the inner lip, which is only slightly arcuate.
Columellar margin heavily calloused throughout, black, with a white lining on the inner border.
Length 19, diam.
16^ mm., longest axis of aperture 13 mm. "
20, " 15£ " " " " 13 " 19, " 17 " aperture 13£ x 12£ mm.
20, " 17 " " 13x10 mm.
Tamosopo River above and below the "Natural Bridge,'" near Verastagu, State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
The water in the basin above the bridge is in constant agitation, caused by the falls of several small streams feeding it and the narrow outlet, so there are several inches of the rock walls alternately covered and exposed.
The positions occupied by the different species of Pachycheilus were quite diverse, the P. pila always being submerged, while P. atratus and humerosus were higher up and often entirely beyond the reach of the water.
Below the bridge P. pila was on submerged rocks, while the other species were most plentiful at or near the surface.
This is the shortest, most globose species of Pachycheilus known, having the contour of an Anculosa or Paludomus.
The youngest stage examined is about 2 mm.
long, at which time the shape is ovate-conic.
At 5^ mm.
long, with the spire of 5 whorls still perfect, the last whorl has become inflated, and traces of very fine delicate spiral strise remain.
The types (pi.
XXIV, figs.
1 to 5) are from below the "Natural Bridge."
Some examples apparently adult are smaller than the dimensions given above, alt.
13^, diam.
13 mm.
Specimens from a tributary of the Tamosopo River at the Tamosopo Sugar Company's plantation are all smaller.
Specimens measure: Length 14, diam.
12, length of aperture 9 mm. "
' 12, " 11, " " 8.8 " Examples from a rill on the mountain side above the banana plantation at the "Natural Bridge" are very small, adults measuring 8 to 11 34 mm.
long.
This small race might be distinguished as P. pila pilula n. var.
(pi.
XXIV, fig.
6).
Pachycheilus tristis n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, figs.
7-10.
The shell is short, ovate, brown, the last whorl smooth when adult.
Spire conic but deeply eroded in adults, rarely showing more than 3 whorls distinctly.
The last whorl is convex.
Aperture bluish-white inside.
Outer margin thin, strongly arched, forming half a circle; inner margin slightly arcuate, heavily calloused, white throughout or with a brown edge.
The neanic stage, length 10-11 mm., is conic with an elevated spire sculptured with spiral carinse, 3 on each whorl of the spire, one ridge being just below the suture, another below the middle, and the third just above the succeeding suture.
On the last whorl there are 4 or 5 spiral ridges, the lowest one weak, below the periphery.
Subsequently the whorls become more inflated and the spiral sculpture weakens, either disappearing in the penultimate whorl or a single subsutural ridge and sulcus may persist until the beginning of the last whorl.
Length 21, diam.
13.7 mm.
; aperture 11.5 x 9 mm.
20, " 14 " " 11.2 x 9.2 " 23.5, " 16 " " 12.5x10 " 16.2, " 12.5 " " 9.5 x 8 " Tamasopo River at the "Natural Bridge," near Verastagu, State of San Luis Potosi.
Very few found above the bridge, but quite plentiful below.
Adult shells of this species resemble P. pila in shape, but they differ by the brown color, bluish-white aperture and white columella.
Old shells which have lost most of the spire by erosion are hard to distinguish from P. pila.
The characters of the young are wholly diverse, and show P. tristis to be related to P. humerosus and P. atratus.
Compared with P. humerosus, P. tristis differs in lacking a shouldered last whorl, the more ovate shape and the color.
It differs from P. atratus in shape, sculpture and color.
Pachycheilus moctezumensis n. sp.
PL XXIV, figs.
11, 12.
The shell is globose-oval, solid, purplish-black.
The spire is very short, the apex slightly projecting; earlier whorls light brown, the apex eroded.
Whorls of the spire sculptured with several low spiral ridges.
Last whorl oval, smooth, aperture ovate, angular above, 'broadly rounded below, dark within, black near the lip edge.
Inner margin calloused, white, usually with a brown edge.
Length 2(H, diam.
14^, aperture 13 x 11 mm., 4 whorls remaining.
17i ; " 13 , " lHx 9 " 4 " Moctezuma River at the ford south of Tampamolon, State of San Luis Potosi; taken from rocks in shallow water where there was considerable current.
They were scarce.
With some resemblance to P. pila, this species differs by its more oval shape, the last whorl being less convex and larger, the aperture less wide.
P. pila has quite a different facies from the great expansion of the last whorl.
In some examples the spire is longer than in those selected as typical : length 23, diam.
15, aperture 14 mm., whorls 6, the spire being perfect.
Paohycheilus pluristriatus (Say).
PI.
XXIII, figs.
1-5.
Melania pluristrktfa Say, New Harmon)' Dissem., Dec, 1831; Complete Writings, p. 140.
Pachycheilus pluristriatus Say, v. Martens, Biologia Central] Amer., Moll., p. 449, pi.
26, fig.
1.
Melania rubida Lea, Obs.
Gen. Unio, etc., XI, p. 77, pi.
22, fig.
16.
Melania labiosa Wiegmann, in Berlin Mus.
This species is solid, straightly conic, light slate or drab to nearly black in color, glossy, usually with a yellowish band below the suture and sculptured with numerous acute spiral cords narrower and much lighter colored than their intervals, usually 10 to 15 on the last, 6 on the penultimate whorl.
The embryonic whorls are smooth, following ones have a keel above the suture, and soon a thread above the keel; additional threads soon appearing.
The suture is either rather inconspicuous throughout or moderately impressed at the later whorls.
The last whorl is convex.
Aperture purple-brown inside, ovate, acutely angular above.
Outer lip thin, retracted above.
Columella rather narrow.
Parietal callus is rather heavy, or sometimes very thick, white, brown at the edge.
Length 37, diam.
17, aperture 15 mm.
; whorls 8.
33, " 16, " 14 " " 71.
35, " 15, " 13.3 " " 9.
Coy River, San Luis Potosi, on a long water plant in the stream and at the water's edge, quite abundant.
The exact locality of Say's type of this species is not known.
It was taken by Mr. Maclure, who went to Mexico by the Tampico route, and therefore may have obtained the shells from the Coy River or its neighborhood.
The examples taken by Mr. Hinkley agree fully with Say's.
The locality of M. rubida Lea was also unknown.
Prof. von Martens figured a specimen from the Berlin Museum, taken by Ferdinand Deppe between 1824 and 1837.
These examples were labelled as from Lake Chapala, at the western edge of the Mexican plateau, and draining into the Pacific.
It seems unlikely that this snail has any such range, and we are disposed to believe that some mistake about the locality of Deppe's shells has crept in.
They agree fully in shape and sculpture with the Coy River examples, but, like M. rabida Lea, are dead shells, of a reddish color.
Pachycheilus pluristriatus longus n. subsp.
PI.
XXIII, figs.
11, 12.
The shell is longer than pluristriatus, black, sometimes fading to flesh color towards the apex, not glossy.
The keel above the suture is more prominent and the other spirals are fewer and unequal, part of them being very weak, and they are black like the ground color.
The suture is deeply impressed; the base of the last whorl is smooth or weakly sculptured.
Length 37.3, diam.
14.3, aperture 13.5 mm.
; whorls 9^.
36, " 14.5, " 13.3 " " 12.
Ganina River, there miles southwest of San Dieguito, San Luis Potosi.
Pachycheilus pluristriatus tamasopensis n. subsp.
PI.
XXIII, figs.
6-10.
The shell is glossy, black, shaped like P. pluristriatus.
Sculpture weaker, the whole last whorl or its basal half being smooth, without spiral cords, but generally a few spirals persist below the suture.
Length 36^, diam.
17, aperture 14 mm.
; whorls 5^.
38' " 15, " 15 " " l\.
34, " 13, " 14 " " 7i.
Small stream north of the mill of the Tamasopo Sugar Co., San Luis Potosi.
Some small examples with the upper whorls eroded show no spirals whatever, and may possibly belong to another species (pi.
XXIII, fig.
8).
More perfect adult shells or the young stages must be examined.
Examples measure : Length 25, diam.
13, aperture 11.7 mm.
; whorls 3. "
26.5 " 15.2, " 11 " " 4J.
Pachycheilus atratus n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, figs.
13-18.
The shell is ovate-turrited, solid, covered with a very smooth, dense, glossy brownish-black cuticle.
The spire is somewhat acuminate; early whorls smooth; intermediate whorls often showing a few weak spiral cords below the suture and a weak angle at the shoulder.
Last whorl flattened below the very deep suture, elsewhere very convex and smooth, though on some examples faint traces of very minute spiral lines may be discerned.
The aperture is rounded-oval or roundedovate, somewhat livid and translucent within but generally with a black band bordering the Up.
It projects beyond the general outline of the cone.
Outer and basal margins of the peristome are thin, black, and well rounded; inner margin straightened more or less, white within, with a black or brown-black edge; 5 or 6 whorls remain in adult shells, only the tips being eroded.
Length 30, diam.
16 mm.
; aperture 13 x 9 mm.
27, " 15i " " 13 xll " 27, " 14 " " 12^x10 " Tamosopo River near Verastagu, San Luis Potosi, above and below the "Natural Bridge" (pi.
XXIII, figs.
13 to 15).
While clearly related to P. hamerosus, this species is easily distinguished by its rounded whorls.
A large quantity of each was taken.
The type lot consists of beautifully perfect, clean shells from above the bridge.
Those found below the bridge are not so clean.
Specimens from a rill issuing from a cave on the mountain side above Los Canoas are incrusted with a gray calcareous deposit so that adults resemble pebbles, but when cleaned the shell within is found to be almost or entirely perfect (pi.
XXIII, figs.
16, 17, 18).
Fig.
18 represents a cleaned specimen.
They are smaller than the type lot, about 24 mm.
long.
A lot taken in the rill on the mountain above the "Natural Bridge" consists of dwarf shells, adults measuring 19 to 21 mm.
long.
P. pila in the same stream is even more dwarfed.
Pachycheilus atratus ganinus n. subsp.
PI.
XXIII, figs.
19, 20.
A race of P. atratus occurs in the Ganina River three miles southwest of San Dieguito.
The black shell is dull with the middle and lower whorls of the spire ridged or coarsely striate spirally, usually with 5 to 8 striae on the penultimate whorl.
Several of these spiral cords usually continue on the last whorl below the suture.
The upper whorls of the spire are smooth and convex.
The aperture is shaped as in P. atratus.
Fig.
19 represents a cleaned shell, fig.
20 one incrusted.
Length 24, diam.
13, aperture 1H mm.
There are some abnormally shortened shells, length 17, diam.
12, aperture 10^ mm.
The spire is generally covered with a hard calcareous crust, difficult to remove.
P. pluristriatus longus occurs in the same place.
This form resembles P. a. suprastriatus closely, but differs by having smooth post-embryonic whorls.
It is also constantly black in color.
Pachycheilus atratus suprastriatus n. subsp.
The shell resembles P. atratus in shape and aperture.
It is less glossy, brownish black, dark brown or corneous-brown, the whorls of the spire spirally striate, the striae sometimes persisting on the last whorl below the suture.
The earliest post-embryonic whorls are acutely carinate, the carina continuing downward above the suture as additional acute cords arise above it.
On the third from the last whorl, in a cotype, there are 5 equal acute striae!
Length 3(H, diam.
15, aperture 13 mm.
; G whorls remaining.
24, " 13, " 1H " 5 " 24^ mm.
; 1\ whorls remaining.
34, diam.
16 mm.
; aperture 13 x 10 mm.
24, " 13 " " 10 x 7 " Yalles River at I\Iecos falls, and some rapids two miles west of Mecos, State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
The only species of Pachycheilus found in the vicinity of Mecos.
The young differ from those of atratus and ganinus in being carinate; the early whorls of the spire enlarge more regularly, and the color is a dull horn or light shade of brown without the polish of the young atratus.
Taken from the bed of the river in a moderate current, and sheltered pools where there was no current.
Mecos falls are a number of small falls and rapids where the Yalles River comes from the mountains to the valley.
Standing on the railroad track and looking east and a little to the right, Yalles can be seen as a spot in the valley, and still farther in the next range of mountains is seen the rock face of the cut through which the railroad passes and in which lies the village of El Abra.
Paohyoheilus humerosus n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, figs.
21-2.3.
The shell is ovate-turrited, solid, black with pale spiral bands on the ridges, the cuticle smooth and dense.
Spire acuminate when not eroded, the earliest whorls (in young shells) clear brownish, first 5 whorls smooth and not very convex, then two spiral ridges appear, rapidly becoming stronger, a third ridge appearing below the suture about the 8th whorl, and sometimes others between the primary ridges.
A specimen 9 mm.
long with S whorls has 7 spiral ridges on the last whorl, each showing as a white band within the aperture.
One 15 mm.
long with whorls has 7 such ridges and bands on the last whorl.
The whorls then enlarge very rapidly, the suture deepens.
On the penultimate whorl of an adult there are about 5 spiral pale ridges, the lower ones wider and lower.
On the last whorl the ridges weaken, leaving it smooth or nearly so, or they may persist below the suture and at the base; the suture becomes very deep, the whorl below it horizontal, shouldered, the shoulder bounded by a ridge or angle.
The aperture is rounded-ovate, blackish within but pale or banded in the throat; outer and basal margins thin, black, broadly rounded; inner margin more or less straightened, appressed or free and continuous, brown at the edge, the callus white.
3^ to 6 whorls usually may be counted in adult shells.
Length 28, diam.
18, aperture 13^ x 10 mm.
27, " 17. "
14 xl2 " " 25, " ISi, " 14^x12 " " 25, " 16£, " 14 xlOi " The operculum is ovate, with the nucleus about one-third across from the columellar side and below the middle.
Tamosopo River, near Verastagu, above and below the "Natural Bridge."
The light colored cords alternating with purple-black bands makes it a conspicuous shell when seen in the water.
While the general shape is that of P. atratus, this species differs from that by its conspicuous sculpture.
It is more allied to P. tristis, though very distinct.
Pachycheilus monachus n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, figs.
21-25.
The shell is solid, cylindric with conic spire, or turrite-conic, black.
The earliest whorls appear to be smooth; then sharp spiral cords much narrower than their intervals appear, evenly spaced, and five on each whorl; these disappear on the last two whorls, or one to three persist only below the suture, where the whorl is more or less tumid or shouldered.
The spire is rather long and conic; suture deep; last whorl convex or flattened laterally.
The aperture is ovate, whitish inside, black near the lip.
Outer lip sharp and strongly arcuate.
Columellar lip more straightened, heavily white-calloused, usually brownish at the edge.
Length 32, diam.
14.3, aperture 13 mm.
; whorls remaining 8.
28, " 13.3, " 12 " " " 4 25£, " 14, " 12 " " " 4i Coy River, three miles south of Los Palmas.
State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
The Coy River issues from a cave at the foot of the mountain below the railroad track.
Specimens taken near the cave and a short distance within average smaller than those taken lower down the stream, but agree with them in other characters.
They measure 20 to 28 mm.
long.
P. nwnachus has some resemblance to P. a. suprastriatus, but in that the spiral striae are coarser and less regular, the aperture is less angular above, and projects more laterally beyond the outline of the cone, as in P. atratus.
Pachycheilus vallesensis Hinkley.
Nautilus, XXI, p. 25, pi.
5, figs.
1-3, 5-7, 10 (July, 1907).
This species was taken in the Valles River at Valles; most abundant where there is but little current.
Also at the ranch of C. P. Willis.
In all kinds of situations.
In some places the young were very numerous.
The largest ones were on rocks and in the bed of the river where there was little or no current.
The large typical form also occurred in the Panuco River at Pujal, on a rock outcrop in the bed of the river.
This is a wide shallow stream in which there is a large amount of shifting sand.
Few shells were found where the stream was visited.
Very large shells, some 37^ x 18£ mm., were taken in the Moctezuma River at the ford, in the bed of the stream.
P. vallesensis differs from the other stout species of the region by its bluish, ashy or blackish-gray color, reminding one of Goniobasis livescens, and by the white columellar callus.
Pachyoheilus vallesensis attenuates n. subsp.
The shell is livid bluish when clean, smaller and much more slender than vallesensis, with a comparatively longer spire.
Whorls 8 or 9, the upper ones weakly striate spirally, last whorl smooth.
Aperture ovate, acutely angular above.
Parietal callus thick and white, the appressed edge often yellowish or brownish.
Length 26, di am.
11, aperture 9 mm. "
28, " 13i, " m " Chaimai Creek (about halfway between Valles and Pujal) and Casas Viejas River, a tributary of the Valles River, coming from the north of Valles, and emptying into the Valles River some miles east of Mecos falls.
These shells were at first thought to be P. suprastriatus, but they differ in the striae of the young being finer and more numerous; there is also a difference in the aperture and columellar callus, and the outer lip is never extended beyond the line of the spire as in suprastriatus.
In 1907 this form was included in the description of P. vallesensis and figured (see Nautilus, Vol.
21, figs.
4, 8 and 9 of pi.
5).
They are more acute in the spire and thinner than typical vallesensis, also smaller.
The shells taken the past winter were from farther up the stream than those taken two years before.
Not one could be found at the place where they were then.
Chaimai Creek is about two miles down the Valles River from the Willis ranch (where typical P. vallesensis occurs), and begins with a spring about a mile from the river.
The water of the spring is a little warm and the pool there contains no Pachycheilus.
Lower down they were often on and among decaying leaves.
Pachycheilus suturalis n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, figs.
16-20.
The shell is turrited, regularly and slowly tapering, moderately solid though rather thin, black, blackish-brown or brown.
In perfect shells the first (embryonic) 2% whorls are smooth and convex; four or five following whorls have an acute carina below the middle, with an acute thread above and one below it ; on subsequent whorls the carina is reduced and the number of spiral threads increases, so that there is a brief stage of about one whorl where the convex surface has about 6 subequal spirals; the lower spirals then diminish, leaving the last 3 or 4 whorls nearly smooth except for a group of usually three or four spiral cords just below the suture.
Some weak traces of spiral stria?
may often be seen on the smoothish portion, under the lens.
The aperture is broadly ovate, narrower above, but rounded there in adults, broadly rounded below.
The peristome is thin, blackish, noticeably retracted just below the columella, and the outer lip is sinuous, being somewnat retracted above.
The parietal callus is brown or blackish, rather heavy.
Length 28, diam.
13, aperture 11 mm.
; whorls remaining 5+. "
28, " 1H, " 11 " " " ~ 6|. "
24^ " 11, " 10 " " " 6*.
26, " 11£, " 9i " " " 7.
Creek near Tampamolon, with P. pleurotoma.
Also found in the creek at Coxcantlan, a creek one mile above the ford of the Moctezuma River, and in the first and second brooks crossed on the road through the mountains to the Moctezuma River; all in the State of San Luis Potosi.
This species is related to P. pleurotoma, which differs chiefly by its Pleurotomoid sinus.
The only other related species is P. saussurei (Brot), 3 of which two of the original lot, received from Dr. Brot, are 3 See Kuster's Conchylien Cabinet, Melanaceen, p. 43, pi.
5, fig.
7; type locality a swamp in the woods bordering the Rio Grande , which empties into the Lagnna de Meztitlan, State of Hidalgo.
It has no outlet to the sea.
in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
In P. saussurei several whorls following the embryonic shell are convex and smooth, not keeled as in P. suturalis; and lower down the whorls have in addition to the snbsutural group of striae a weak longitudinal plication, which is wanting in P. suturalis.
The largest examples are from a creek about a mile above the ford of the Moctezuma River.
Two measure: Length 34, diam.
15, aperture 13 mm.
; whorls remaining 4. "
33.2, " 12.2, " 12 " " " 7i Those from the creek at Coxcantlan are not quite so large as the type lot, and the shells from the two rills in the mountains are small ; those from the first rill have the lip slightly expanded, and are quite slender, measuring: Length 18.2, diam.
7, aperture 6.2 mm.
; whorls 8^. "
20, " 7.3, " 7 " •" 10 (apex perfect).
They live in the same stream with P. pleurotoma, but were not noticed feeding with that species, seeming to prefer the rocks where there is considerable current.
Those from the second rill are slightly larger and less slender, about 21 x 10 mm.
Pachycheilus pleurotoma n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, figs.
13 15.
The shell is slender, turrited or spire-shaped, rather thin, hair-brown or greenish-olive.
Spire long, slightly attenuate above.
The earliest whorls are smooth and rounded ; then some spiral threads appear, one near the lower suture rapidly increasing to a projecting carina, with one thread below, one to three above it; this stage continuing 3 or 4 whorls.
The carina then disappears, leaving the whorls rounded with about 5 threads, and sometimes a low, indistinct longitudinal plication.
The spiral threads then disappear, leaving the last 2 to 4 whorls convex and smooth except for 3 or 4 spiral cords just below the suture.
The last whorl usually becomes a little shouldered near the aperture.
The aperture is small, very broadly ovate, being somewhat narrower but rounded above.
The outer lip, close below the suture, is retracted to form a deep rounded sinus, much as in the marine genus Drillia.
Elsewhere the lip is thin and simple.
The basal lip is broadly rounded.
Columellar margin straightened or much less arched than the outer margin, moderately thickened.
Length 36 J, diam.
12^, length of aperture 1H mm.
; whorls 10.
« 29, " 10i, « « « 92 u „ 1Q Mountain rill on the road going north from Tampamolon, and several small streams not far from Coxcantlan.
Types from the first rill on the road to the Mocteziuna River.
The shells were found where there was little or no current and seemed to be feeding on decaying vegetation, chiefly on fruit of the wild orange.
This species is distinguished from others of its group by the deep Pleurotomoid notch.
In Pachycheilus this structure is known only in P. dalli Pils., a species very different in other characters.
Perfectshells may have as many as 12 whorls, but the tip is generally Inst in adults.
Explanation of Plates XXIII.
XXIV.
Plate XXIII.
— Figs.
1-5 — Pachycheilus pila n. sp.
Cotypes.
Fig.
6 — P. pila pilula n. subsp.
Cotype.
Figs.
7-10 — Pachycheilus trisHs n. sp.
Cotypes.
Figs.
11, 12 — Pachycheilus moctezumensis n. sp.
Cotypes.
Figs.
13-15 — Pachycheilus pleurotoma n. sp.
Cotypes.
Figs.
16-20 — Pachycheilus suturalis n. sp.
Cotypes.
Figs.
21-25 — Pachycheilus monachus n. sp.
Cotypes.
Plate XXIV.— Figs.
1-5— Pachycheilus pluristriatus (Say).
Coy River.
Figs.
6-10 — Pachycheilus pluristriatus tomasopensis n. subsp.
Cotypes.
Figs.
11, 12 — Pachycheilus pluristriatus longus n. subsp.
Cotypes.
Figs.
13-15 — Pachycheilus atratus n. sp.
Cotypes.
Figs.
16, 17, 18 — Pachycheilus atratus n. sp.
Los Canoas.
Figs.
19, 20 — Pachycheilus atratus ganinus n. subsp.
Cotypes.
Figs.
21-25 — Pachycheilus humerosus n. sp.
Cotypes.
UNIONIDJE OF THE PANUCO RIVER SYSTEM, MEXICO.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The extensive river system emptying by the Panuco River into the Gulf of Mexico at Tampico has a rich mollusk fauna, in which tire Melaniidce and Unionidce are particularly well developed.
A few of the mussels were collected by Dr. Blanding many years ago and described by Dr. Isaac Lea.
Many more were taken by Mr. A.
A. Hinkley in January and February of the present year.
All of the species known from the Panuco drainage are included in the following list.
The localities mentioned may be found on the map, p. 520.
Only four Panuco species are now known to extend southward into the rivers of the neighborhood of Vera Cruz.
There is more affinity with the fauna of the Rio Salado.
The generic relationships of eastern Mexican Unionidce are very uncertain, since Simpson, in his great systematic work, knew the soft parts of very few Mexican forms, and there are no definite generic characters in the shells alone distinguishing the genera Unio, Nephronaias and Lampsilis.
Some species which have been referred to the two former genera seem to me to belong to Lampsilis.
Under these circumstances, it will be understood that the generic references herein are made with reserve, and subject to revision by those who may study these mussels in the flesh.
Quadrula nickliniana (Lea).
Unio n. Lea, Obs., I, 140; III, 72.
Moctezuma River (Dr. Blanding).
This large and handsome plicate species was not found by Mr. Hinkley.
Quadrula semigranosa v. d. Busch.
Unio semigranosus v. d. Busch, in Philippi, Abbild., I, p. 19, pi.
1, figs.
1-3.
Martens, Biologia, p. 493, pi.
30, figs.
1-4.
Rio Panuco at Tampico, type loc.
It has not been found by Mr. Hinkley.
My record of this species from Rio Tuliga in Tabasco, copied into the Biologia by Prof, von Martens, was erroneous, the specimen from that place being U. corium Sowb.
and not semigranosus.
This leaves only the Panuco locality on record for the species, though related forms are known from southern Mexico.
It is an alien in northeastern Mexico.
Xampsilis aztecorum (Phil.).
Philippi, Abbild., Ill, p. 27, pi.
6, fig.
2.
Martens, Biologia, p. 502, pi.
36, figs.
2-4a; pi.
37, figs.
3, 3a,b.
Zimapan, on the Rio San Juan, a southern confluent of the Panuco (Schiede).
Not taken by Mr. Hinkley.
Lampsilis strebeli (Lea).
Obs., XII, p. 78, pi.
51, fig.
131; Martens, Biologia, p. 503, pi.
37, figs.
1, 2 (as a variety of aztecorum).
Nephronaias medellinus Simpson, Synopsis, p. 592, footnote 2.
Valles River, two miles above Mecos, at the head of the rapids.
Taken from crevices in the bed of the stream, where the water was deep and the current so strong that it was difficult to hold one's position.
The shells in this place were so badly eroded that a third were discarded.
This species was described from the State of Vera Cruz.
It has been united with medellinus by Mr. Simpson, and with aztecorum by von Martens, but I think it specifically distinct.
Xampsilis fimbriata Frierson.
Nautilus, XXI, p. 86, pi.
12, figs.
1-3, Den., 1907.
L. salinasensis Simpson, in Dail, Proc.
U. S. Nat, Mus., 1908, p. 101, pi.
30, fig.
3.
Valles River at Valles, at the ranch of Mr. Willis, between Valles and Pujal, and two miles above Mecos, where it occurs with L. strebeli.
"At Valles the water was very shallow, and nearly the whole bed of the stream could be waded.
The shells were found between and under rocks in mid-stream, and a few were taken from a muddy bank across the river from the town."
This fine Lampsilis is related to L. strebeli on the one side, to L. discus on the other.
Lampsilis discus (Lea).
Unio discus Lea, Obs., II, p. 74; III, p. 72.
Von Martens, Biologia, p. 509, with var.
connectens and panucoensis, p. 510.
Unio lapidosus Villa in Kobelt.
Moctezuma River.
"Just below the ford the river is divided by a large island.
The stream on the right has a strong current; that on the left is checked to some extent by a rock outcrop at the lower end of the island.
In this part of the stream quite a bed of this species was found."
(A.
A. H.) The type locality is the Rio Moctezuma.
The varieties described by Prof, von Martens cannot be sustained.
They occur together and fully intergrade.
It is a magnificent species, one of the largest in Lampsilis.
The nacre may be white, salmon or purple.
534 [proceedings of the academy op [Nov., Lampsilis tampicoensis (Lea).
Unio tampicoensis Lea, Obs., II, p. 24.
Von Martens, Biologia, p. 511, pi.
33, fig.
1.
Valles River at Mr. Willis' ranch, about halfway between Yalles and Pujal.
Lampsilis moctezumensis n. sp.
PI.
XXV, figs.
1, 2, 3, 4.
The shell is oblong, the dorsal and ventral margins both arched, the former a little more so; altitude decidedly more than half the length, diameter more than one-third the length; moderately strong but not thick.
The beaks are small and low.
near the anterior fourth of the length.
In young shells they show one or two low, short undulations, being nearly smooth.
Color yellowish brown.
Adult shells hardly showing rays, even by transmitted light, but the young have narrow green rays posteriorly, on a yellow ground, marked with dark concentric streaks.
Both ends are rounded.
Sculpture of growth-wrinkles only, weak on the middle of the valve, but rather emphatic anteriorly.
The interior is white, the nacre thinner and iridescent posteriorly.
The pseudocardinal teeth are moderately stout, blunt and nearly smooth.
In the left valve the posterior cardinal is larger than the anterior.
In the right valve the single cardinal is small.
The lateral teeth are short and widely separated from the cardinals.
The cavity of the beaks are rather deep.
Length 68, alt.
38^, diam.
24 mm.
Moctezuma River, State of San Luis Potosi.
Very few specimens were found.
This species has some resemblance to spatulatus (Lea).
It differs from the related species by wanting corrugation on the posterior slope.
Lampsilis iridella Pilsbry and Frierson.
Nautilus, XXI, pi.
12, figs.
4, 5 (Dec, 1907) ; XXII, p. 81 (Dec, 1908).
Very abundant in the Valles River at Valles and Mr. Willis' ranch.
Also taken in the Casas Viejas River, the Coy River, and Tampamolone Creek.
Most specimens from Valles are larger than the types, brownishyellow or olive-yellow with rays only on the posterior half, when adult, or sometimes rays are entirely wanting.
An adult shell measures, length 61, alt.
31, diam.
19.5 mm.
Lampsilis semirasa n. sp.
PI.
XXVI, figs.
7, 8, 9.
The shell is oblong-reniform, the ventral margin being a little concave in the middle or straight, the upper margin strongly arched; the posterior end is wider in female shells, scarcely so in males.
The altitude is contained about If times in length, diameter about 3 times in the length.
The surface is smoothish except for growth-lines which are strongest near the lower margin and anterior end.
Color various shades of brown, with rather indistinct darker or greenish rays, chiefly on the posterior half.
The beaks are low, at the anterior fifth of the length.
When perfect they have double-looped concentric sculpture.
Valves thin, lined with nacre which is whitish in the cavity and anteriorly, but pink and very iridescent posteriorly (sometimes suffused with pink throughout, darker and purplish below the pallial line, or sometimes silvery white throughout) .
Pseudocardinal teeth compressed, rather small; lateral teeth very short, about one-third the shell's length.
Ligament short.
Length 47, alt.
26i, diam.
16^ mm.
47, " 26, " 15 " Ganina River three miles southwest of San Dieguito, in mud and gravel in clear water about knee-deep, where there was no current.
Also in the Valles River two miles above Mecos.
Some specimens of the type lot are larger, length 55, alt.
28, diam.
16 mm.
There is also some variation in the teeth, which may be more or less stout.
In the Valles River at Mecos the shells are rather small and not incrusted; nacre white, iridescent posteriorly, but not suffused there with pink or purple.
Some of the half-grown specimens are quite fully rayed.
Two miles above Mecos in the Valles River there are large shells with but little incrustation, and rather dull, opaque, white nacre, with but little iridescence.
Two measure: Length 58, alt.
34, diam.
19 mm. "
56, " 28i, " 19^ " L. semirasa differs from L. signata and L. undivaga by lacking corrugation on the convexity of the valves and on the posterior-dorsal slope.
It apparently lives with the shell nearly half buried, somewhat more than the posterior half projecting, and in most localities covered with a hard calcareous coat, as in pi.
XXVI, fig.
9.
Fig.
7 represents a cleaned specimen.
Lampsilis popei (Lea).
Unio popei Lea, Obs., VIII, p. 51 (Devils River, Texas, and Rio Salado, Nuevo Leon, Mexico).
Valles River at Valles, Willis' ranch, and two miles above Mecos.
Abundant.
Tampamolon Creek, one specimen.
The shells have fine purple nacre, coppery and iridescent posteriorly.
I have compared them with the types of popei in U. S. National Museum.
Lampsilis signata n. sp.
PI.
XXV, figs.
5, 6.
The shell is oblong with subparallel dorsal and ventral borders, twice as long as wide, the diameter contained about three times in the length.
The anterior border is rounded, posterior border truncate below, sloping and more or less convex from the truncation to the posterior end of the hinge.
In some specimens the posterior truncation is indistinct, or that extremity may be rounded.
The beaks are low and situated near the anterior fourth of the shell's length.
Adult shells are blackish, but by transmitted light numerous green rays may be seen, fading out towards the lower border; and when unworn the beaks shows a pretty pattern of distinct green rays on a pinkish or creamy ground.
The surface has but little gloss; the cuticle is roughened by growth-lines, which near the edge and on the posterior slope often form cuticular laminae; the middle part of the valves is smoother, but marked with one or more small patches of short corrugations, at right angles to the growth-lines, and near the beaks there are some acute fine radial wrinkles on the posterior-dorsal slope.
The beaks are sculptured with two radial series of short concentric wrinkles separated by a slight depression.
The valves are rather thick in the anterior half, becoming abruptly thinner posteriorly.
The nacre is purple, fading in the cavity, or bluish white, becoming purplish and iridescent posteriorly.
The pseudocardinal teeth are stout, the anterior one in the left valve wedge-shaped, a rather broad rugose heel below it, the posterior one lying directly under the beak; lateral teeth double as usual.
The right valve has a stout, rugose pseudocardinal with a fossa and then a very small, compressed laminar tooth above it; lateral tooth single.
Length 73, alt.
37, diam.
23 mm.
Valles River, " near a small falls about three miles below Valles, in the muddy banks of a pool caused by low water.
Feb. 4, 1909. "
(A.A.H.)
A few smaller specimens were taken in the Moctezuma Kiver, Casas Viejas River and Tampamolon Creek.
A young shell with the corrugation unusually well developed is figured, pi.
XXVI, figs.
5, 6.
Lampsilis undivaga n. sp.
PI.
XXVI, figs.
1, 2, 3, 4.
The shell is oblong, the altitude about three-fifths of the length, diameter slightly over one-third the length ; solid, dull blackish brown, without rays.
The anterior end is rounded, posterior end more or less truncate below, sloping steeply above.
Surface of the valves with sculpture of distinct growth-lines, and sometimes having a patch of very indistinct vertical corrugations near the posterior ridge on the most convex portion.
There is also some fine oblique corrugation on the posteriordorsal slope near the beaks, when not worn off.
Beaks low, between the anterior fifth and sixth of the length; when perfect the tip is acute and sculptured with a series of short folds on the posterior ridge.
The interior is fleshy-purplish, iridescent posteriorly; nacre in the anterior half is very thick, posteriorly thin.
Cavity of the beaks deep and angular.
The pseudocardinal teeth are stout, otherwise formed as in L. signata; laterals curved.
Length 54, alt.
33, diam.
19 mm. "
54, " 30, " 18 " " 50, " 30, " 18 " Valles River two miles above Mecos, in a muddy bank just above rapids.
This species is closely related to L. signata, but the valves are thicker and heavier, the teeth are heavier, and the proportions differ.
It is apparently related to L. aztecorum (Phil.
), 1 but that is described as thin, "valvulis satis tenuibus," whereas in L. undivaga the valves are quite heavy and strong for a Lampsilis of this size.
The nacre is nearly white in a few examples.
It abruptly becomes thick in the posterior half of the shell.
Young shells are conspicuously rayed with green.
One young shell from the Valles River at Valles (pi.
XXVII, fig.
5), seems to belong to this species, though I am not quite sure of the identity.
It is 41 mm.
long, yellowish, nearly covered with green rays, the nacre is pale purple, with a wide darker purple margin posteriorly.
Lampsilis novileonis n. sp.
PI.
XXVII, figs.
1, 2.
The shell is oblong, rather compressed, the upper and basal margins slightly and about equally arcuate, anterior end rounded, posterior end sloping above, truncate and somewhat biangular below, beaks at the anterior two-sevenths of the length.
The surface is convex, without angle or ridge bounding the posterior slope, not very glossy, smoothish for the greater part, but on the posterior slope there is some oblique corrugation in the upper part of the disk.
The epidermis is yellow, sparsely marked in the posterior half with narrow green rays.
The very low beaks are eroded in the type specimen.
The interior is white, thicker anteriorly, very gradually becoming thinner at the posterior end, where opalescent tints are beautifully produced.
The cavity of the beak is rather deep.
The lateral teeth are short and rather widely separated from the stout cardinals, which are double and about equally prominent in the left valve.
1 Unio aztecorum Philippi, Abbildungen und Beschreibungen neuer oder wenig bekannter Conchylien, III, pi.
6, fig.
2.
35 Length 78, alt.
43.5, diam.
22.5 mm.
Casas Viejas River, State of San Luis Potosi.
With some resemblance to L. moctezumensis, this species differs by the slight corrugation of the posterior slope and the more compressed form.
Some young specimens (pi.
XXVII, fig.
7) from the type locality, which seem referable to this species, have the whole valves ornamented with wide green rays.
The beaks have a minute area sculptured with about four concentric wrinkles, which are very weakly bilobed.
Outside of this sculptured portion the green rays are very distinct, as in allied species.
A faint rib or green stripe radiates from the beak in the middle of the posterior slope, which is in part obliquely corrugated.
These specimens measure from 17^ to 36 mm.
long.
Lampsilis coyensis n. sp.
PI.
XXVII, figs.
3, 4.
The shell is oblong, with beaks at the anterior fourth of its length ; slightly wider posteriorly, the posterior end sloping above, bi angular below; anterior end rounded; basal outline moderately curved, convex.
There is a rather distinct angulation from the beak towards the posterior-basal angle, and the indistinct trace of a ridge to the posteriormedian angle.
The beaks are low, with minute, recurved tips sculptured with a few coarse double-festooned wrinkles, the connection between the two curves almost interrupted.
The sculptured portion is not quite two mm.
long.
Subsequent growth is marked with growthlines only, or with a very slight oblique corrugation in places on the posterior slope.
The epidermis is rather smooth but not gloss}^ and is shortly and finely lamellose towards the margins.
Color obscure greenish yellow, indistinctly marked all over with green rays.
Near the beaks the rays are very distinct on a light ground.
By transmitted light it is light yellowish, very profusely marked with green rays.
The interior is white and somewhat thick anteriorly, thin, blue and slightly iridescent in the posterior half.
The teeth are moderately strong.
Length 36, alt.
21, diam.
13.5 mm.
Coy River, State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, collected by Mr. A.
A. Hinkley, January, 1909.
These Lampsilis from the Coy River were found where there was a long mosslike plant growing, the current of the stream keeping it in a constant waving motion.
The water was two to four feet deep.
The Lampsilis were found by feeling in the roots of this moss.
On the moss and bed of the stream were Pachycheilus and Lithasiopsis, but the former were more numerous lower down the stream in a small recess where there was no current.
In this recess were also found the small species taken in this stream.
They were in the sediment, and on water plants and near the water's edge.
The stream is clear, deep and with a strong current.
This may turn out to be a small, rayed variety of L. novileonis, yet specimens from 28 to 36 mm.
long have every appearance of adult shells.
The cardinal teeth in the left valve are stouter and their crests are more united than in L. novileonis.
While L. undivaga, coyensis and novileonis are closely related species, they seem, with present material, to be distinct.
Lampsilis metallica ganina "subsp.
PI.
XXVII, fig.
0.
The shell resembles L. metallica (Say) (Unio cuprinus Lea) in general appearance, but is constantly smaller, more compressed and more reniform.
Near the beaks there are green rays on a pale ground, the rest of the valve being brownish black.
Length 47, alt.
25, diam.
13^ mm.
47^, " 264, " is" " 39, " 21, " 13 " Ganina River, three miles southwest of San Dieguito.
The specimens are heavily incrusted with calcareous matter posteriorly, but are free from erosion.
Glabaris strebeli (Lea).
PI.
XXVII.
fig.
S. Anodonta strebeli Lea, Obs., XII, p. 82, pi.
52, fig.
135 (Vera Cruz).
Tampamolon Creek, two specimens.
Casas Viejas River, one young shell.
The epidermis is very glossy anteriorly, but dull and shortly lamellose on the posterior half.
In the median part there are several rays composed of short threads in the direction of growth-lines, but caught up and interrupted in the middle, as though scored upward when soft.
These peculiar markings occur on some other species of Glabaris, and are constant in all the specimens of G. strebeli I have seen from Vera Cruz and San Luis Potosi.
The anterior end of the shell has a sculpture of threads along the lines of growth.
The sinulus, or glossy area at the posterior end of the hinge-line, is triangular, pointed below, as in Glabaris.
not shallow, as in Anodonta; so that Mr. Simpson's reference of the species to Glabaris is justified.
It ranges north farther than any other species of the genus.
G. cylindraccus (Lea), from the Medellin River, is evidently an allied form.
NEW LAND SHELLS FROM MEXICO.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Most of the species here described were collected by Mr. A.
A. Hinkley early in 1909.
The localities mentioned may be found marked on the map on p. 520.
Schasicheila xanthia n. sp.
Fig.
1.
The shell is conic, thin, of a uniform maize yellow or pale lemon color, rather weakly marked with fine growth-striae ; whorls 4^, very convex, parted by a deep suture, the last whorl well rounded throughout, slightly descending at the aperture.
Aperture slightly oblique; outer lip very slightly expanded.
Inner lip straight, continuous.
Columellar area small, white, the umbilical region deeply impressed.
The operculum is thin, white, a little sunken at the nucleus, the lower angle projecting in a short point beyond the basal lip.
Alt.
4.9, diam.
4.9 mm.
Canyon below Las Canoas, State of San Luis Potosi, in crevices and on ledges of the bluffs, under stones and debris.
Types 99,024 A. N. S. P. This snail is related to S. minuscula Pfr., but on comparison of specimens it is seen that in the new form the spire is higher, more acute, and the suture is deeper.
The operculum is in place in the figured type.
Helicina vanattse n. sp.
The shell is turbinate-globose, similar to H. chrysocheila Binn., white, the upper whorls often flesh colored, the last whorl often having a wide dull purplish or dull red band above the periphery, and partly exposed above the suture on the spire; marked with a bright scarlet streak behind the lip, with usually, in large shells, a more conspicuous streak at the last third of the last whorl, and another on the penultimate whorl.
The spire is conic, apex rather acute.
Whorls 6, slightly convex, the last rounded peripherally.
Sculpture of faint growthlines, very fine, close spiral striae (sometimes subobsolete), and very weakly developed, short, forwardly-descending wrinkles.
Aperture quite oblique; peristome narrowly expanded, white, with a red streak inside.
Basal callus white, weak and small, having a small pit behind the columellar lip.
Alt.
9.5, diam.
10.5 mm.
; whorls 6.
On the sides of the canyon below Los Canoas, San Luis Potosi, under loose rocks and leaves on shelves and in crevices of the bluffs.
Also on the bluff near the mill of the Tamosopo Sugar Co., and on the side of the highest peak south of Mecos falls.
Types No.
99,025 A. N. S. P. This species differs from H. chrysocheila cniefiy in coloration, being marked with scarlet streaks behind the lip and at former growtharrest periods, and in having a white lip, that of chrysocheila being yellow, as tne name denotes.
Some examples are very small, but have an expanded lip, diam.
only 8 mm., with 5 J whorls.
The largest specimen seen measures alt.
12.2, diam.
12.7 mm.
Named for Mr. E. G. Vanatta.
Polygyra matermontana jaliscoensis n. subsp.
The shell is larger than P. matermontana, brown, the last whorl or 1£ whorls weakly rib-striate, with faint traces of spiral striae near the periphery, previous whorls finely striate; umbilicus larger, the central cavity well-like, contracting very slowly, more than half the total width; at the last whorl the umbilicus expands rapidly, and has a nearly vertical side wall.
Whorls 6, the last very deeply and steeply descending in front, and having a rather deep and long spiral furrow within the umbilicus.
The aperture is subhorizontal, the basal and upper margins parallel; teeth somewhat larger than in typical matermontana, similar in shape, but the sinus between the outer and basal teeth is a little narrower.
Alt.
6, diam.
12, width of umbilicus 3 mm. "
5.8, " 11, " " " 2.9 " Guadalajara, State of Jalisco, Mexico.
Types No.
99,512 A. N. S. P. This form differs from matermontana in the coarser sculpture, wider umbilicus which is more deeply grooved within, narrower last whorl (viewed from above), more deeply descending at the aperture, etc.
It has a wider umbilicus than P. nelsoni Dall.
A similar shell except that the color is pale yellowish-corneous with a very faint supraperipheral band, and the sculpture of the last whorl is not quite so coarse, was collected by Mr. C. H. T. Townsend at Zapotlan, Jalisco, in July, 1902.
It is evidently a very closely related race.
Polygyra guadalajarensis n. sp.
The shell is depressed, with slightly convex spire and moderate 542 [Nov., umbilicus (contained about 4^ times in the diameter of shell), which is well-like and enlarges very little at the last whorl, where but a very narrow area of the preceding whorl is exposed.
Surface glossy, marked with growth-wrinkla*, more distinctly striate behind the lip; pale brown.
Whorls 4f to 5, convex, the last subangular in front of the aperture, soon becoming rounded, with the periphery well above the middle; it is deeply contracted behind the outer and basal lips, and descends abruptly in front ; within the umbilicus it is flattened but not furrowed.
The aperture is transversely oblong.
Parietal tooth Y-shaped both branches curved, the outer one slender and nearly but not quite reaching the upper termination of the lip; lower branch stronger, nearly reaching the termination of the columellar lip.
Within the outer lip there is a compressed tubercle with a callous buttress or concave plate above it.
In the basal margin there is a similar compressed tubercle, with a weak callus (scarcely a tooth) between it and the columella.
Alt.
4.2, diam.
8.8, width of umbilicus 2 mm. "
4, " 8 mm.
Guadalajara, State of Jalisco.
Types No.
99,513 A. X. S. P. Polygyra guadalajarensis n. sp.
This species is related to P. ventrosula hindsi (Pfi\), from which it differs chiefly by the much larger cavity of the umbilicus, which enlarges at the last whorl less than in any of the related species known to me.
The two species described above belong to the group of P. ventrosula, — the most difficult group of Mexican Polygyras.
This group includes shells in which the parietal tooth is distinctly V-shaped, and the outer lip has a well-developed concave plate or buttress above and joined to the outer lip-tooth, basal lip with one or two teeth.
The following species belong here: P. plagioglossa (Ph.)
P. guadalajarensis Pils.
P. suprazonata Pils.
P. bicruris (Pfr.)
P. couloni (Shuttl.)
P. matermontana Pils.
P. richardsoni Marts.
P. mat.
jaliscoensis Pils.
P. richardsoni lingualis Pils.
P. nelsoni Dall.
P. ponsonbyi Pils.
P. nelsoni collisella Dall.
P. ventrosula (Pfr.)
P. euglypta Pils.
P. ventrosula hindsi (Pfr.)
P. albicostulata Pils.
Of these forms I have not seen P. bicruris and P couloni, or typical specimens of P. ventrosula or richardsoni.
This group of species is especially developed in western and northern Mexico.
Towards the southeast it is in large measure superseded by the group of P. yucatanea, of which P. helictomphala is a common form.
In this group there is no distinct plate or buttress above the outer liptooth, and the parietal tooth is reduced.
Northward, the group of P. texasiana replaces the ventrosula group.
P. texasiana, P. triodontoides, P. mooreana, P. latispira and their subspecies compose the texasiana group.
The old records, on Sowerby's authority, of P. ventrosula and hindsi from Texas must be erroneous.
P. ariadnce, which forms another group somewhat related to that of ventrosula, has been reported from Texas, but it certainly has not been collected there recently.
Polygyra oppilata implicata 'Beck' Martens.
This is a common snail in the Panuco River basin.
Dead shells are abundant in river debris at Tampico.
Living shells were found by Mr. Hinkley inland.
P. implicata has usually been ranked as a distinct species, but it differs from oppilata in only trifling details.
When fresh the shell is sparsely hairy.
Mingled with implicata in the river debris, but probably from separate localities or stations, there are specimens in which the upper angle of the peristome is built out from the whorl, somewhat as in P. auriculata; the two lip-teeth are slightly more developed, the space between them being narrower.
This form I have called P. o. complicata.
P. oppilata has been reported from Florida ( Shuttl eworth), at Cedar Keys (W. G. Binney) ; but some similar form of P. postelliana must have been mistaken for it.
Of about the same size, and belonging to a closely related group of species, such a mistake might easily be made.
The Mexican group of P. ariadnce is composed of species in which 544 [Nov., there are two more or less compressed lip-teeth, a lamina or buttress above the upper one, and a well-developed biramose parietal tooth, both rami of which are strongly developed, more or less curved or sinuous, and connect with the ends of the peristome, thereby differing from species of the group of P. ventrosula.
This group is very closely related to Floridan forms, such as pustuloides, espiloca, auriformis, etc., differing chiefly by the armature of the outer lip.
The following species are included: P. oppilata Morel P. aulacomphala Pils.
and Hinkl.
P. o. implicata 'Beck' Marts.
P. rhoadsi Pils.
P. o. complicata Pils.
P. polita Pils.
and Hinkl.
P. ariadnce (Pfr.)
Euglandina cymatophora n. sp.
Fig.
3.
The shell is cylindric-oblong, of a yellowish brown or fallow color, very glossy.
The apex is rounded; first 3^ whorls are smooth; the following whorls have short, regular folds below the suture, distinct and rather strong near the suture but rapidly becoming very weak, the surface becoming smooth.
On the latter part of the last whorl strong, regular folds continue to the base.
The distance from crest to crest of these folds is about one millimeter.
Besides this sculpture, there are conspicuous places of growth-arrest, marked by an impressed light line, preceded by a darker streak, which follows a rather wide opaque streak.
There are three such variceal marks on the last whorl of the type.
The spire has nearly straight outlines and a well impressed suture.
The whorls increased slowly and regularly to the last, which descends more rapidly.
The aperture is more than half the length of the shell, its upper half very narrow.
The outer lip retracts rather strongly above, and arches forward in the middle.
The columella is moderately concave.
Length 38, diam.
14, length of aperture 22.5 mm.
; whorls 9.
Side of the canyon below Las Canoas, State of San Luis Potosi.
Type No.
98,612 A. N. S. P One living and two dead specimens were taken.
It is quite distinct from other known species by the sculpture, long spire, etc.
Streptostyla supracostata n. sp.
Fig.
4.
The shell is oblong, with the aperture about half the total length, Fig.
3.
E. cymatophora.
1909.]
545 Fig.
4.
S. supracostata.
spire conic, very obtuse at the summit; thin, corneous.
First 2^ whorls are smooth and convex; then regular, distinct fold-like striae appear below the suture.
These striae are a little protractive and do not extend quite to the suture below.
On the last whorl there are 3 or 4 striae in the space of a millimeter; they weaken downwards, and fade out below the middle of the whorl.
Whorls 5^ to 5f, convex, the last slightly compressed laterally, convex below.
The aperture is small, outer lip arching forward in the middle; columellar fold is very strong and short.
Length 10, cliam.
4.9, aperture 5 mm.
9.6, " 4.8, " 5 " State of San Luis Potosi, at the cave near San Dieguito; types No.
99,031 A. N. S. P. Also at El Abra and the canyon below Las Canoas.
This is quite distinct by its comparatively long but very obtuse spire, regular sculpture and very strong columellar fold.
It is somewhat related to S. physodes Shuttl.
Streptostyla bartsrhi Dall, one of the finest species of the genus, was taken in the canyon below Los Canoas.
Streptostyla minuta n. sp.
Fig.
5.
The shell is oblong-conic, amber colored, somewhat transparent; spire long, with slightly convex outlines and very obtuse summit.
Surface smooth and glossy.
Whorls h\, slightly convex, parted by a well-impressed suture, narrowly margined by transparence.
The aperture is about half the total length of the shell, narrow; outer margin of the peristome arched forward in the middle.
Columella short, very strongly twisted, the fold having a heavily calloused rounded edge.
The edge below the spiral fold is deeply concave and thin.
Length 5.5, diam.
2.3, length of aperture 2.6 mm.
Mountain sides of the canyon below Los Canoas, State of San Luis Potosi.
Type No.
98,595 A. N. S. P. This is by far the smallest species of the genus known.
It is chiefly remarkable for the small aperture, long spire and the very strong columellar fold.
In size and general appearance it resembles Coehlicopa lubrica.
Two specimens were taken.
Fig.
5.
S. minuta.
546 [Nov., Sucoinea panucoensis n. sp.
Fig.
6.
The shell resembles S. luteola in shape, is very thin, translucent, pale yellow or amber colored, rather roughly sculptured with growthwrinkles on the last whorl.
There are nearly 3^ convex whorls, the last having its greatest convexity below the middle.
Aperture oblique, ovate.
Length 13, diam.
7.2, length of aperture 10 mm.
14, " 8, " " " 10 " Pujal, Alligator and Catamas Lakes, State of San Luis Potosi; types from Alligator Lake, No.
99,504 A. N. S. P. Also taken at Tampico in 1907.
This species stands between S. luteola and S. concordialis.
It has much the contour and the pointed apex of luteola, but the thin, translucent shell is unlike that eartlry, opaque species.
S. concordialis differs from both by its decidedly more obtuse apex.
It is also somewhat more convex at the base.
The specimens from Pujal Lake are smaller and more slender than the types.
One measures: Length 12, diam.
6, aperture S mm.
Fig.
6.
December 7.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
The deaths of Henry C. Wood, a member, February 12, 19()!S, and of George C. Harlan, M.D., a member, September 25, 1909, were announced.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a communication on Early Arctic Voyages.
(No abstract.)
December 21.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair.
Thirty-four persons present.
The death of William H. Jenks, a member, February 2, 1909, was announced.
The Publication Committee announced the reception of a paper entitled "Notes on Cyprinoid Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler.
The following was ordered to be printed : FURTHER STUDIES ON THE ACTIVITIES OF ARANEADS, II.
BY THOS.
H. MONTGOMERY, JR.
The following observations were made at Woods Hole, Mass., during the Summer of 1909.
For the identification of certain species my thanks are due to Mr. Nathan Banks and to Prof. G. W. Peckham.
1.
The Process of Sperm-Induction.
It will be recalled that Lister in 1678 discovered that the male spider in coition applies his pedipalpal bulb to the genital aperture of the female; and that Menge in 1843 found that the male charges his palpi by depositing a drop of sperm upon a specially constructed inclined sheeting, and then touching this drop with his palpal organs.
The latter process, termed by me sperm-induction, was seen by Menge in Linyphia, Agelena, Tapinopa and Micrommata; by Blackwall (1863) in Agelena; by Ausserer (1867) in Dicttjna and Linyphia; by Bertkau (1875, 1876) in Philoica, Linyphia and Clubiona; by Westberg (1900) in Linyphia; and by me (1903) in Tegenaria, Theridium, Dietyna and two species of Lycosa.
The exact literature references are given in my paper of 1903; 1 consequently they need not be repeated here.
The process has been observed, accordingly, in only ten genera, representatives of six families, so that the following new observations on representatives of two other families are not without interest.
It is difficult to see this act, and success is obtained only by long continued watching of spiders kept in cages.
The first species to be described is the common large Attid, Phidippus purpuratus K. One male, No.
1524, was placed on 20 June in a cage with two females, and copulated the same day with one of them.
The next day he avoided his mates, and at 5.32 P.M. was seen spinning a small sheeting, from the floor to the side of the cage and inclined at 45°; four minutes later he deposited a minute drop of sperm upon it, barely visible to the naked eye; then extending his body over the sheeting, reached his palpi downward and backward, applying them in alternation against the drop ; the palpal organs were pressed, not against 1 Studies on the Habits of Spiders, particularly those of the Mating Period, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Philadelphia, LV, 1903, p. 59. the free surface of the drop, but against the reverse surface of the sheeting.
At 5.43 he was interrupted by a feeding female, and he moved away from the sperm-bridge with a minute droplet of sperm at the apex of his right palpus and another left on the bridge.
Another d\ No.
1508, of the same species, copulated on 17 June, and the day following was observed at the close of the sperm-induction at 7.10 P.M. ; he had spun from one vertical wall of the cage to the other, in an angle, a narrow transverse ribbon of silk, with its flattened surface in the vertical plane; against this he placed his ventral surface, with his cephalic end elevated and the abdomen flexed, applying his palpi gently and alternately against that surface of the sperm-bridge directed away from his body.
He ceased at 7.15, went into a corner of the cage and there rested quietly.
With a hand lens a thin film of sperm could be seen upon the bridge, and next day the sperm was found with the aid of the compound microscope.
The same male (1508) copulated on 20 June in the morning, and at 6.20 P.M. was found forming another sperm-bridge like the first; at 6.24 he dropped a minute globule of sperm upon it, and then applied his palpi in alternation to it as in the preceding cases ; this palpal application lasted six minutes, when he turned away, but he seemed to be prematurely interrupted by the movements of a grasshopper.
The other case was that of a male of Drassus neglectus (Keys.
), No.
1527.
He and a 9 , No.
1528, were caught together in a closed nest on 17 June, placed in a cage, and there he built a beautiful and spacious saccular nest around both.
On 23 June, at 11.37 A.M., he was observed in nearly vertical position within this nest, moving the ventral surface of his abdomen repeatedly against an inclined sperm bridge built against the inner surface of the nest and with its upper edge free.
In half a minute he discharged a droplet of sperm upon it, then lowered his body to bring his jaws about on a level with the upper margin of the bridge, reached his palpi over this free margin and rubbed them gently many times against the reverse side of the sperm-bridge.
One palpal bulb was thus rubbed at a time, then raised in the air while the other was rubbed.
The application of the palpi continued for 17 minutes.
In all the cases so far described there is quite general uniformity in the process of sperm-induction; a special sperm-bridge is spun, a droplet of sperm placed upon it on the side next the spider's body, then the palpi applied alternately against the opposite side.
The cephalothoracal end is always raised.
In the case of Phidippus, No.
1508, this act was seen twice, each time after observed copulation, and since the process must have occurred before the first coition, this particular individual must have accomplished the process at least three times.
But I have seen no evidence that a replenishing of the palpal organ is necessary after each copulation ; the charging of them is generally sufficient for a number of copulations, the number probably varying with their duration.
2.
The Atypical Habits of Ariadna.
In all cases of egg-laying so far known in Araneads the process is strangely uniform even though the finished cocoons may differ greatly in form and texture.
A base is first spun, a drop of viscid secretion emitted from the genital aperture upon it, the eggs discharged into this drop, then a cover spun around the egg mass.
I have watched the details of this process in so many instances, and in such a variety of forms (Aviculariids, Thomisids, Drassids, Lycosids, Epeirids, Theridiids, Sicariids, Agelenids, Dictynids, Attids, Filistatids, Pisaurids), that I had come to believe it was the universal process in spiders.
But in the interesting Dysderid Ariadna (Pylorus) bicolor (Hentz) a form was found that builds no cocoon at all, and that lays its eggs in a drop of salivary secretion.
This species is common in certain open fields at Woods Hole, where it makes its nest on the under side of stones.
No adult males were found from early in June until the middle of September, when I ceased my observations.
It constructs a firm and rather tough silken tube, up to nearly three inches in length in the case of large individuals, quite viscid, so that foreign objects readily adhere to its outer surface.
Generally the tube has a single opening that flares outwards something like a funnel, and has been figured and described by McCook 2 , but sometimes there is an opening at each end, and this is not infrequent in the case of nests spun in captivity.
Kept in artificial cages the spiders sometimes wander out of their nests at night; but for the most part they remain within them, at the enlarged entrance, with the three anterior pairs of legs extended forwards ready to seize prey and drag it into the nest, — as well described by Hentz.
3 Frequently a colony of them is found beneath a single stone, and then their nests are sometimes contiguous with each other and with those of Phidippus and Drassus; but they are not strictly colonial, for they are cannibals whenever an opportunity offers.
In captivity they appear to spin 2 American Spiders and Their Spinning Work, Vol.
II, Philadelphia, 1S90.
3 The Spiders of the United States, ed.
Burgess, Boston, 1875. usually between midnight and dawn.
A nest is the product of several days of labor and is probably added to and lengthened from time to time.
The spiders can barely walk upon smooth glass, even when horizontal.
They feed within their nests and remove the remains of the food outside.
They exhibit death-feigning to a considerable degree.
To observe the egg-laying a number of individuals were isolated in small vials; groups of others were also placed in large cages each made of two glass panes 12 x 8 inches, separated by a wooden frame I inch thick; food could be introduced and air provided by holes in the wooden frame.
No egg masses were found in wild nests before 2P June, and the individuals observed had not oviposited.
The oviposition is carried out within the nest.
The entire process was seen in the case of two individuals, and parts of it in other instances.
It may be described from the case of 1534 B, caught and placed in a cage on 26 June.
On 4 July she spent the afternoon spinning against the inner surface of her nest, thickening it, but making no special cocoon base.
At 6 P.M. she became quiet except for a movement of the palpi against the jaws that I first interpreted as a cleaning operation, but watching her attentively with a hand lens, I saw that both palpi were flexed, their free ends rubbing her chelicera rather slowly but regularly, and at 6.11 a minute drop of fluid could be seen at the apices of the chelicera.
The two palpi steadily continued to rub the jaws, the chelicera and maxilla?
moving backwards and forwards as well as opening and closing, and the drop slowly increased in volume by the addition to it of droplets that merged with it; the drop was viscid, as shown by its form, and evidently issued from the vicinity of the mouth.
Thus the drop slowly grew in size, and was slowly pushed caudad beneath her cephalothorax, until it extended like an ovate pearl from the mouth back to the anterior border of the abdomen; it was transparent at the periphery, but more opaque in the centre, while the newly issuing droplets, to be added to it, were all transparent.
Consequently the opacity of the interior may have been due to a change in consistency.
This process lasted continuously from 6.11 to 6.37, then the abdomen was quickly flexed downward slightly, and the viscid drop suddenly clouded — due to successive discharge of the eggs into it.
This discharge of the eggs occupied almost 3 minutes.
The spider then commenced to sway her body slowly back and forth over the egg mass in the drop, and continued to do so for almost an hour.
This movement was the attempt to free her chelicera and the ventral surface of her cephalothorax from the surface of the viscid drop.
The spider was horizontal, dorsum uppermost, the feet fixed against the inner surface of the nest.
Another female (1534 C) occupied the time from 7.45-8.16 P.M. to produce the viscid drop.
Another one (1534 D) worked from 5.54-6.32 P.M. to make the drop, occupied 5 minutes in the discharge of the eggs into it, then took more than an hour to free herself from it.
In not a single instance of the egg masses laid in captivity (13 cases) was either a special base spun for the egg mass or a cover spun around it.
The inner surface of the nest serves as a base, there is no silken cover, but the eggs are held together insecurely by the hardening of the salivary drop ; insecurely, because the egg mass readily rolls out of the nest, and the eggs are easily shaken apart by light handling.
It remains to be determined just what glands furnish the viscid drop into which the eggs are discharged.
It may be composed of a secretion issuing from the mouth, or from the impaired gland of the rostrum or the salivary glands of the maxillary plates.
4 Of the 13 timed egg masses deposited in captivity, 8 were made between 6 and 8 P.M., 3 about 5 P.M., and only 1 in the early morning.
The time from egg laying to hatching is unusually long in this species, at least for eggs laid in the summer.
5 If we consider as hatching the time when the spiderlings first commence locomotion, the 8 timed cases in Ariadna presented time intervals between egg laying (in last week of June and first week of July) and hatching of from 63-70 days.
Not more than one egg mass was made by any of my captives, and to test whether any individuals may oviposit twice in the same year I caught on 22 August 9 females, each from a nest with a single mass of eggs or young, and kept them together in a large cage until 12 September, but no further eggs were laid.
Since the first eggs are laid after the middle of June and do not hatch until September, and since the middle of September brings in cooler weather, it seems probable that they oviposit only once in a year — a condition rare in spiders.
It is general, though not invariable, that at the time of oviposit ion the spider closes the entrance to the nest by spinning over it, and all my captives that had so closed their nests kept them sealed until after the young had hatched.
How long the young remain in the nest after hatching was not determined.
But wild spiders, in natural 4 On the glands in the vicinity of the mouth cf.
especially: Plateau, 1877, Recherches sur la structure de l'appareil digestif, etc., chez les Araneides dipneumones, Bull.
Acad.
Roy.
Belg.
(2), 44; and Bertkau, 1884, Verdauungsapparat der Spinnen, Corresporidenzbl.
Naturh.
Ver.
preuss.
Rheinlande.
5 In certain Epeirids, whose eggs are laid in the autumn, hatching does not take place until the following spring, the cold arresting the development.
conditions, always seem to have an opening to the nest even when the eggs or young are in it.
Ariadna thus resembles its congener Dysdera in having no special cocoon for the eggs, 6 though both build nests.
This would suggest that the nest may be a racially older structure than the cocoon, and that the Dysderids may be one of the most primitive groups of living araneads.
7 The use of a mouth or salivary secretion to agglutinate the eggs has never been seen before in spiders, though Bertkau (1884, I. c.) has described such a process for the acarine Ixodes.
3.
The Habits of Pisaurina.
The Pisauridse closely resembles the Lycosidse in structure, but differ from them in being arboreal during the cocooning season rather than terrestrial, and in carrying the cocoon by the chelicera and not suspended from the spinnerets.
The fullest account of the habits of any Pisaurid is given for the European Dolomedes ftmbriatus Clerk by Pappenheim.
8 He saw the cocooning only once; a spider spun a funnel-shaped cylinder of silk, the closed roof of which was the upper surface of the glass cage; "in the cavity so bounded the eggs were laid Immediately after the oviposition the cocoon, that was at first cylindrical, took on gradually the form of a hollow sphere from its continuous working by the extremities and the abdomen."
Pappenheim does not make it clear whether he saw the actual egg discharge and cocooning, or only the finishing of the cocoon within an infundibular nest, but apparently he saw only the latter.
No other naturalist has described the cocoon-making for any member of the family.
Pisaurina mira (Walck.
), more generally known as Ocyale (Micrommata) undata (Hentz), is unusually abundant in the woodland at Woods Hole, even at places far removed from water, though those kept in cages require water daily.
Males are very rare (I have seen only one, from the collection of Mr. Emerton), and not a single one was found during the past summer.
The large, white, globular cocoons of this species are well known, and so are the nests that the mother spins around the young at the time of hatching, and have been sufficiently 8 According to Simon's statement concerning Dysdera in his Histoire Naturelle des Araignies, 2d ed., Paris, 1892, T. I, p. 311.
7 Reasons have been recently presented by me showing that the tetrapneumonous spiders (Theraphosa?)
are not primitive: On the Spinnerets, etc., fYoc.
.4 cad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia, 1909.
8 Beitrage zur Kenntnis der Entwicklungsgeschichte von Dolomedes fimbriatus Clerck, Zeit.
wiss.
Zool., 74, 1903.
36 described by Emerton, 9 McCook (I. c.) and myself (1903), and have been figured by the last two.
But their method of construction has not yet been described, nor has any reference been made to a curious nest in which the cocoon is placed and which may be called the "cocoonnest/' in distinction from the "progeny-nest."
The Cocoon-nests.
— These are found most frequently, as are the progeny-nests, on the poison-ivy (Rhus toxicodendron), where three terminal leaves are spun together to serve as a roof.
The cocoon-nests are much less frequent than the others, and most of the spiders carrying cocoons in their jaws are not in such nests; therefore, it is probable they are vacated by the spider before the hatching of the young, for I have found the majority of the nests without spiders in them.
The wild nests are each an arched or bellied sheeting of silk placed in the shelter of the under side of three poison-ivy leaves, each such sheeting varying in dimensions from 1 x 1\ inches to about 2 x 2\ inches according to the size of the mother (which varies greatly), and with two or three apertures at its margins.
Two of the spiders only of those that formed cocoons in captivity constructed cocoon-nests, and each of them not until three or four days after the cocoon was formed; these two nests were beautiful inverted domes, fastened to the glass roofs of the cages with a wide aperture below of about two inches diameter.
The latter two nests were quite unlike the natural cocoon-nests found in the woods, and seemed to represent an attempt on the part of the spider to replace the roofing of ivy-leaves; it was probably a similar construction that Pappenheim observed in the case of Dolomedes.
The cocoon-nests found in the state of nature are probably receptacles constructed by the spider in which to make her cocoon, and indeed the most heavily pregnant female caught was taken from such a nest.
The Cocooning.
— Spiders are found with cocoons in early June, and they construct at least two during the summer.
The cocoons vary much in diameter, are held by the mother by her chelicera and pedipalpi and also frequently by one or more pairs of legs, and are at the same time generally fastened by a few lines to the cocoon-nest or to the plant on which she lives.
They are rarely left by the mother before the young hatch.
Nine females were kept isolated in large glass cages for the observation of the cocooning; six of them made cocoons, all constructed in the early morning hours between midnight and 7 A.M.
This particular time of the day is unfortunate for the observer, for after midnight one naturally seeks repose.
But in one case a considerable • New England Lycosidse, Trans.
Connecticut Acad.
Sci., 1S85.
portion of the process was seen, as follows: Female No.
1571 was caught 31 July in a natural cocoon-nest.
Placed in a cage she spun some lines that night, and on 2 August spun quite a network of lines from 7.30 P.M. up to 1 A.M., frequently stopping to bite lines that impeded her movements and taking the relatively long period of from several seconds to half a minute to make a line attachment.
On 5 August at 3.10 A.M.
I found her in the act of beginning the cover to a freshly laid mass of eggs.
She had constructed a flat scaffolding of silk, inclined at an angle, extending from a twig to the wall of the cage.
The egg mass had been laid upon this scaffolding, and probably only a short time previously, for the eggs were but thinly covered with silk.
The cocoon was not regularly circular in outline, but irregularly polygonal, and its diameter was less than the length of the spider.
When first seen she was holding its edges with her feet and was appfying the thread by raising and lowering the abdominal apex, and this method she pursued throughout, which accounts for the cocoon being loose in texture and with no dense outer layers.
10 When she had accomplished spinning the cover to the eggs the cocoon had the form of a plano-convex lens, quite different from the spherical shape when fully completed.
At 3.55 she commenced to free the margins of the cocoon from the scaffolding by biting certain threads, mainly of the lower portion, of the scaffolding, alternating (for 10 minutes) this biting with spinning on the surface so freed.
At 4.10 she fastened a line from the cocoon to the roof, then continued her spinning.
From 4.20-5.00 she was occupied in again biting the lines that held the cocoon to the scaffolding, finally leaving the cocoon suspended by its upper margin within a freed space.
It had now become nearly circular.
The general process of cocooning is thus as described by me for Lycosids, but different in that the upper margin of the cocoon is left attached and suspended until after it is completed (in some cases this attachment is maintained for a couple of days afterward), whereas Lycosids finish their cocoons while held beneath their bodies.
Hatching and Progeny-nests.
— Of three cocoons made in confinement (between 31 July and 6 August) and kept to hatching, the youngemerged in 25, 26 and 30 days respectively.
The mother holds the cocoon until a day or two before the young hatch, then waits until the first young come out before she makes the nest around them; none 10 It need hardly be recalled that such application of the spinnerets always produces architecture of soft consistency, while sweeping of the spinnerets without elevation produces a firmer and tougher mesh.
of my captives made the progeny-nest before emergence of the young.
As the young emerge the mother builds a network of lines around them, she remaining on the outside of the nest, and increases the number of the lines with the number of the young hatching.
In this way the progeny-nest, a real nursery, is gradually built around the spiderlings and the empty cocoon, the mother working on it for as much as three days.
In natural conditions such nests are placed generally at a height of about two feet above the ground, rarely as high as four feet , most frequently on a terminal branch of poison-ivy or oak, or the frond of a large fern, the leaves closely spun together to form a protecting and hiding roof over the network of lines below.
The mother seems to leave the nest and wander off shortly after she has completed it; thus, on 2 August, I found about forty progeny-nests along a path in the woods, and though fully half of them contained young the mother was on the nest or in near vicinity to it in only two cases — and in these two the young were in process of emergence from the cocoon.
In the one case timed the young left the nest on the ninth and tenth day after hatching.
The Mother's Abstinence from Food.
— These relatively large spiders are remarkably timorous, seeming to fear grasshoppers of a size that much smaller spiders will quickly seize, and this timidity seems to be increased in the periods when they are holding cocoons — possibly because the maternal solicitude inhibits the desire for food, as it certainly impedes the search for it.
All my captives drank water eagerly each day, though still holding to the cocoon by the feet, but in most cases refused all insect food until about the time when the young hatch ; in most instances they made no attempt whatsoever to grasp insects walking near them.
Evidently it is the hunger for food that takes them away so soon from the progeny-nest.
The ability to undergo long fasts is well known for the females of a number of species of spiders, while males appear to need food at more frequent intervals — just as they generally require more water.
Effects of Removal of the Cocoon.
— Females with cocoons, when caught roughly and separated from their cocoons, will frequently feign death admirably, lying quite limp and suffering handling without moving.
No case of death-feigning was seen in any individual holding a cocoon.
If the cocoon be returned to them within a few minutes they generally grasp it immediately in their jaws and seek escape.
But there may well be individual differences in this behavior.
Thus with a pencil I removed the cocoon two inches away from one of my captives; she showed no death-feigning, but walked about feeling for it.
When I pushed it until it touched her she jumped away, and though she soon thereafter felt it once or twice she each time sprang away and remained quiet.
I then pushed her gently so that one of her palpi rested on the cocoon; she remained quiet in this position for a quarter of an hour, then suddenly grasped it with her jaws and feet.
In this case the maternal instinct did not seem so strong as that of self-protection.
4.
Experiments to Determine Whether Lycosid Spiderlings can Emerge Unaided from the Cocoon.
It has previously been shown by me (1903, 1, c.) that Lycosid mothers bite open the cocoon along the line of the junction of base and cover, so as to allow the young to emerge.
The following observations prove conclusively that the young are unable to bite their own way out of the cocoon : Twenty-nine cocoons were removed from as many females of a small Pardosa, found running in a wood, and kept about six weeks on my desk in open bottles out of the direct sunlight.
In eleven of these cocoons the young failed to hatch, due either to the handling of the cocoons or to lack of fertilization of the eggs ; while in eighteen the young hatched normally, but failed to emerge, died and shrivelled.
In two cocoons taken from females of Lycosa lepida and kept in the same way the young also hatched, but died within the cocoons.
5.
Apparent Mimicry and Stridtjlation in Certain Drassids.
Geotrecha (Thargalia) bivittata (Keys.
), G. pinnata Emerton, and G. crocata (Keys.)
are found fairly abundantly during the summer running on the ground in cloudy weather, crocata more in open fields and the others in shaded places in the woods.
The first two resemble rather closely in form and movements the macroergates of a large mound-building ant; and the particular locality at which I found bivittata and pinnata most abundant was within twenty feet of such an ant nest,— there being found also many wingless nymphs of the hemipteron Alydus, which also resemble this ant.
This seems to constitute a complex case of mimicry.
But when these ants are placed together with individuals of Geotrecha they quickly bite and kill the latter, so that the ants are not in any way deceived and there is no myrmecophily.
In defining the genus Geotrecha Emerton states, in speaking of the abdomen: "It sometimes has a small, hard patch at the front end which is of the same color as the rest of the back and not easily seen."
This I have found in all three species mentioned, where it occurs at the antero-dorsal aspect of the abdomen and is a thickened chitinous plate, slightly protuberant, of oval form.
Now these species all show a peculiar movement of the abdomen, such as I have never seen so pronounced in any other spiders; they raise and lower the abdomen, slightly rotating it on its pedicel, and continue this movement for several seconds at a time.
This movement is exhibited generally just when the spider comes to rest after a run, and is exhibited equally by both sexes.
An individual frequently rotates the abdomen immediately before starting on a run, on meeting another unexpectedly or on coming into contact with a large living insect.
It is sometimes seen when the spider is quietly cleansing itself, but not when the cage is given a sudden rap.
The hardened abdominal plate at such times rubs against the posterior border of the cephalothorax; accordingly, it is a stridulation movement.
But if any sound is produced it is quite inaudible to the human ear, and if one individual stridulates in the close vicinity of another the latter does not respond by any movement whatsoever and therefore does not appear to be affected by any sound.
It is in no way a sexual call, for the male hunts the female and finds her by touch, and neither he nor she stridulate during the mating.
The ants they resemble do not show this movement.
This genus then exhibits a good case of stridulation, but if any sound is produced thereby it seems to cause no effect on other individuals and, therefore, is probably not perceived by them.
The presence of a stridulation apparatus need not imply the power of hearing in the species concerned, and indeed the studies of Wagner and Pritchett seem to have definitely determined that spiders do not possess hearing — they possess in its place a most acute sense of touch.
These spiders run with perfect ease on smooth glass.
6.
Notes on Modes of Copulation.
Phidippus purpuratus K. The pairing was observed in 26 instances.
The male stands over the female, his ventral surface against her dorsal, their heads in opposite directions, their body axes not in the same line, but his bent obliquely toward one side of her abdomen.
Only one palpus is inserted at a time, and one alone may be employed through the act, or the two may be alternated one or more times.
The female remains motionless.
In the cases timed the act lasted less than one hour in 5 instances, and more than one hour in 9 instances, the longest noted being more than 8 J hours continuously.
It may occur in the morning (7 cases), afternoon (11 cases), or after 6 P.M. (8 cases).
The same pair have beeseen to mate in captivity as many as 6 successive times, as the pair <?
1500 x 9 1501 with copulation on 13, 20, 21 and 28 June, and 18 and 21 July; the same female has been seen to mate with two males, and the same male with two females.
In two instances females were seen to copulate after making the first cocoon: thus 9 1519 mated with c?
1518 on 20 and 21 June, cocooned 29 June, then mated with c?
1519 A on 4 July; and 9 1521 mated with c?
1522 on 26, 27, and 30 June, cocooned 2 July, then mated again 23 July.
This repetition of copulation after oviposit ion is most unusual, for generally in spiders the males die by the time the first cocoons are made.
Equally unusual is the fact that heavily pregnant females will receive males as late as four and even two days before oviposition, whereas it is the rule that pregnant females are extremely aggressive towards males (except in Theridium).
But we shall see a case in Geotrecha pinnata of copulation during cocooning.
Another unusual incident, though I have described elsewhere similar occurrences in some other species, was that c?
1504 copulated with 9 1505 and she moulted a few hours afterwards.
Early in June males are quite as numerous as the females, and pairs are frequently obtained in the same nest beneath a stone, but males decrease in number during the summer, though I captured two as late as 22 August.
The first cT caught, No.
1500 on 13 June, was kept continuously in a cage with 9 1501, and copulated with her six times (the last time on 21 July), until 12 September; then I killed her, but kept him, and he lived until the end of October.
This longevity of a male after the breeding season is without parallel in my experience.
In one case a male (1504) after copulating with a slightly smaller female (1505) on 17 June, ate her on 25 June.
This is a rare happening among spiders, though McCook (/.
c, Vol.
II, p. 24) cites similar instances in Epeirids and Agalenids.
This male was, however, killed and eaten by another female (1544) on 11 July, so was c?
1524 by a gravid 9 1525, and c?
1502 by 9 1503 (after living together for nearly a month).
Five other males that were kept with females, and all of which mated with them one or more times, died without being eaten and with little or no evidence of injury; they seemed to have become physically weakened, and one that I gently removed from his mate to use for another experiment expired a few minutes after the removal.
Accordingly, in this species, where the males are about as large and strong as the females, it is by no means the rule that the males end by being eaten.
The matings observed in captivity took place in almost every instance outside of nests.
Drassus neglectus (Keys).
With regard to this species, common under stones in open fields Emerton (I. c.) states (under the name of D. saccatus) : " In the early summer a male and female live together in the nest, the female often being immature."
During % June I found several such pairs, as well as males in separate nests, but after that month found no more males.
The copulation was observed in two cases.
The first instance concerns cT 1510 (an unusually large individual) and 9 1511, found in different nests on 7 June and placed in one cage; he was larger than she.
The same day copulation was observed from 5.31-5.38 P.M., one palpus applied at a time, the right three times and the left once, each palpus being held in the epigynum for 1-2 minutes, then withdrawn for about a minute, then the same or the other palpus inserted.
He left her at 5.42, but returned two minutes later and inserted the left palpus for 15 seconds, then he left her again and she moved away five minutes later.
The position of the two was about the same as in Phidippus.
This pair were observed again in mating attitude at 3.30 P.M., 24 June, 8.10-8.17 P.M., 25 June, and 9.P.M., 29 June; he died (not eaten by his mate) on 4 July.
The other instance was that of d 1 1506 and 9 1507 caught in the one nest on 16 June and placed together in a cage.
On 23 June, at 9 A.M., I found him copulating with his right palpus; she had moulted within the preceding half hour, was still soft and near her old exuvia.
He kept his right palpus inserted for 39 minutes, and when he withdrew it she struggled away from him.
But he found her again, at 9.42 inserted the same palpus for a few seconds, again at 9.46 for a minute, and again continuously from 9.48 to 10.25, when I was obliged to leave, and on my return at 11.12 they were separated.
Both escaped from the cage before the end of the month.
This instance of mating with a female just at the time of her moulting is interesting, for it gives the timorous male his opportunity while she is helpless.
It is probably full-grown males that seek out still immature females and live with them in the same mating nest.
Geotrecha crocata (Keys).
The mating was observed only once, in the case of a female caught 3 August, and a male ten days previously, placed together in a small cage on 4 August.
In copulation the male stands over the female, his ventral surface opposed to her dorsal, their body axes obliquely inclined, his head a little to one side of the anterior end of her abdomen.
One palpus is inserted at a time.
On 4 August they were observed in copulation at 7.58 P.M. (three minutes previously they were separate), and he kept his left palpus inserted for two minutes, the left for nearly two minutes again, the same for one minute, then the right for a few seconds, when she suddenly rose and he jumped away.
She moved slightly after each palpal withdrawal, and he quieted her by rapid tapping with his fourth leg pair.
On 7 August he died from her bite.
Geotrecha pinnata Emerton.
One male and three females were found running in an oak wood on 31 July and placed in a large cage.
Two copulations were observed on that day and on the next respect ivefy, the attitude being the same as in G. crocata.
In the first case the male inserted his palpi each twice and successively from 5.42-5.43 P.M., then he turned away from the female, returned and inserted the right palpus for a few seconds, turned away, returned and inserted each palpus once, moved off, returned and inserted both once, then moved away from her again ; but when he sought her again at 5.51 she had gone off.
What is remarkable in this species is that the male, after one or two short palpal insertions, departs an inch or more from the female, stands still for a minute or more shaking his palpi, then turns and seeks her again (wholly by touch unaided by sight), the female generally waiting motionless for his return.
He alwa} r s mounts over her head.
The next day the same male copulated in a similar fashion, from 11.3511.44 A.M., with eight palpal insertions.
On 22 July five other individuals of this species were caught and placed in one large cage.
Two were males, one of them lacked one palpus, and for convenience may be called A, while the other perfect individual we ma} T call B; these males were combative on meeting each other, but not aggressive to the females nor these to one another.
d 1 B at 5.20 P.M. met and copulated with a gravid female, inserting his palpi about four times; then cT A touched her, she at first repulsed him but half minute later accepted two palpal insertions from him; at 5.36 both males were an inch away from her.
Between 5.37 and 5.50 she received both males in the following order: C?
A, c?
A, cT B, c?
A, c?
B, cT B, cT B, d 1 A, o 1 A.
Then she rose and moved away, returned to the same place, and repulsed further advances.
After cleansing herself she began at 7.20 P.M. to spin her cocoon.
Between 8 and 9 P.M. she was interrupted by o 1 A five times, but drove him off each time.
At[9.06 cJ 1 B found her and copulated, and between then and 9.15 copulated eight times.
Between 9.22 and 9.35 cT A made five advances, but was driven away each time.
cT B copulated twice at 9.42, and at 9.44 she repulsed d 1 A. I then kept both males away from her in order to see the cocooning.
This is a very remarkable case of a female accepting copulation from two males alternately; and of interruption of the cocooning process by such mating.
Only an hour and a quarter after the last copulation she oviposited.
During the cocooning she was aggressive, raising her fore-legs, but c?
B pressed them down by rapid tapping and mounted over her head; the mating was forced upon her against her maternal instinct.
Prosthesima atra (Hentz).
One male and four females were caught 7 August and placed in a large dish, all unable to walk on the vertical glass side.
On 9 August the male was seen in mating attitute, but without palpal insertion, for a quarter of an hour; this was at 5.20 P.M., and at 6.55 he was again motionless upon a female, but without insertion of the palpi.
Could it have been that he was waiting for her to moult?
On 15 August a copulation was observed, the attitude as in Geotrecha; the pair was first seen at 8.40 P.M. (they were not in copula a quarter of an hour before), and during the succeeding 19 minutes he inserted his left palpus 4 times and his right 3 times, each insertion lasting from 1 to 2 minutes.
Another copulation was seen on 20 August at noon.
Misumena aleatoria (Hentz).
The male of this Thomisid is many times smaller than the female.
A pair were placed together in a cage on 27 August.
In the copulation both palpi are inserted simultaneously, and the male is placed upon the ventral surface of the abdomen of the female with his head pointed in the same direction as hers; the ventral surfaces of the two are apposed.
The male, after discharge of the sperm, may remain upon the female's venter or may climb to her dorsum.
He continues to hold to the female for astonishingly long periods, for he is so small and nimble that she is unable to displace him.
Thus at one time he remained upon her for 22 hours, even though I disturbed them by removal to a bottle, and I found it difficult to push him off with a pin ; at another time he remained continuously upon her from 4.57 P.M., 30 August, until 7.30 A. M., 1 September, when he left her, but regained her at 9 A.M. and remained upon her until the following morning, when she was found dead.
Even her walking around the cage did not seem to disturb him.
Palpal insertions occupied only a small part of these periods.
Xysticus nervosus Banks.
Two adult males and an immature female were placed in one cage on 5 September.
She repulsed their advances, and after moulting on 11 September, was placed again with the males.
One male found and embraced her, then the other drove him off, or the first left the female to fight the other male, and this fighting of the two males upon and around her body continued for half an hour, when I separated them.
The next day the same fight was renewed over her motionless body for 50 minutes, when the female rose and walked away, the males, thereafter, avoiding her.
The copulatory attitude Is like that of X. stomachosus, previously described by me (1903).
The males appeared as eager to fight as to mate.
Caratinopsis interpres Em.
Two males and a female of this small theridiid were placed in a vial on 12 July.
The males were savage on meeting and grappled with each other.
Within a few minutes the three had spun a maze of lines.
Twice it happened that both males simultaneously seized and tried to embrace the female, and once one male copulated while the other endeavored to do so; in each case the female shook both off at the end of a minute or two.
Finally one male inserted both palpi continuously for 21 minutes; their heads were in the same direction and ventral surfaces apposed, the male held her with his first two pairs of legs and had his head a little posterior to her epigynum.
7.
Nesting and Cocooning.
The architectural habits of Ariadna and Pisaurina have been described above.
Phidippus purpuratus K. We have mentioned that during June a male and female are frequently found together in one nest, and such mating nests are well known for the Attids; these are perhaps the same as the nests which the females occupy during the Winter.
But on bringing home such pairs and placing them in cages no such mating nests were made, but the male and the female each built a thin-walled nest with two apertures, during which they remain mostly only at night; the two would also use the nests interchangeably, and would usually copulate outside of them.
Before cocooning each of my captive females spun in an angle of the cage a much larger, entirely closed nest, so thick-walled that she can scarcely be seen through it, and within this spun all the cocoons of one season.
Whether under natural conditions, on the lower side of a stone, the female would employ her mating-nest as a cocoon-nest, or whether the two are separate structures, I have not ascertained.
The male may enter the cocoon-nest after the female has made an opening to it, to copulate with her, but he never remains long therein, but usually spins a smaller nest of his own on its outer surface.
The special cases observed of cocoon-nest construction, and of cocooning, were the following.
$ 1519 made a thin nest on 28 June, and during the night made it very thick-walled with a narrow aperture at one end.
On the following day she was found at 12.30 P.M. spinning vigorously across a vertical circular area, of greater diameter than her own length, of the inner surface of the nest ; this was a distinct cocoon-base made upon the wall of the nest.
She ceased suddenly at 1.10, rested quietly until I left at 1.30, and on my return at 2.50 was again spinning on the circular base, and worked through the afternoon.
At 8.10 P.M. she oviposited upon the base, holding her head down and her feet on the margin of the base.
She remained quiet until 8.32, when she began to spin the cover for the eggs, swinging the spinnerets from side to side and revolving her position from time to time; this cover-spinning continued to the next day after 7 A.M. On the 30 June she left the nest for the first time, from 8 July on left" the nest daily to hunt for food and made a second aperture for egress.
The young began to leave the nest on 15 August, and at that time I found a second cocoon containing eggs within the nest (the young of which hatched 12 September).
9 1521 laid a mass of eggs within a thin-walled nest on 2 July, but she ate them.
On the 26 and 27 July she worked continuously spinning a perfectly closed cocoon-nest in an upper corner of the cage, then from 3 P.M. on for three hours spun a cocoon-base within it, this base spun in an oblique position and its diameter somewhat less than her own body length.
She oviposited about 9 P.M. (during my absence).
Next morning at 8.00 she was spinning a cover, but it was still very thin; consequently there must have been a long pause between the oviposition and cover-spinning.
She did not leave the nest until fourteen days later; and when I opened the nest on 12 September it contained hatched young.
9 1525 was found on 17 July spinning a cocoon-base within an entirely closed, thick nest from 3-5 P.M. ; this base was vertically inclined, extending from the floor to the roof of the nest, not against its side.
She rested quietly for an hour and a quarter, spun again on the base for ten minutes, then occupied eleven minutes in oviposition.
Then she seemed exhausted, and not until 10.34 began the cover-making, which was completed next morning.
She did not leave the nest until seven days later.
On 26 August she had again closed the nest, probably to make another cocoon.
On opening the nest 12 September I found that only two eggs of the first cocoon had hatched, and none of the second.
These cases are given somewhat in detail, for they illustrate a considerable range of individual difference.
The cocoon-nests are viscid and very thick-walled, excellent homes for the young; the mother closes them tightly before making each cocoon, and generally does not emerge for food until a lapse of several days or even a fortnight; she always returns to them after her hunts, and remains there with the young until they leave.
It is quite probable the young of the second cocoon, when it is made late in the summer, may overwinter in the nest.
Emerton says of this species (under the name of mystaceus) : u " The largest of the New England Attidre .
.
.
.
It lives under stones at all seasons.
In winter or when moulting or laying eggs it hides in a thick white bag of silk, in which the cocoons are made early in the summer.
The young become nearly full grown before winter."
Drassus neglectus (Keys).
These spiders, as Emerton has noted, are to be found in pairs in silken bags, and the following observations would show that such mating-nests are probably always spun by the males.
A pair (cT 1506, 9 1507) were taken from a nest on 16 June and placed in a cage.
During that afternoon and evening he spun a thin, closed nest around them both, next day copulated within it, and both remained in the nest until their escape twelve days later.
Another pair, c?
1510, 9 1511, from separate nests were put into one cage, and the male alone did the spinning of the nest.
Another pair, cT 1527, 9 1528, were taken from one nest and placed in a cage; he built a beautiful and spacious saccular nest, entirely closed, in which he charged his palps with sperm and she moulted ; she ate him in it three days later.
Still a fourth male, of another pair (cT 1529, 9 1530) from one nest, spun a mating nest.
In only one case have I seen the cocooning, though several individuals were kept under observation.
9 1530 was on 24 July within a cylindrical closed nest, which was her enlargement of the mating nest constructed by d 1 1529; in this species, then, the mating-nest may become the cocoon-nest.
At 7.30 A.M.
I found she was spinning within the nest upon a cocoon-base, that was a horizontally placed, slightly concave saucer of silk fastened by two opposed edges to the sides of the nest ; the beginning of this base was not seen, but it must be either a modified partition of the nest or else a separate structure, and in either case not a part of the wall of the nest.
I was unfortunately obliged to leave before the egg-laying, and on returning at noon found the cocoon was completed.
The cocoon is always large, snow white, of a flattened biconvex shape, its circumference polygonal; the mother holds it tenaciously with her feet until the 11 New England Spiders of the Family Attida\ Trans.
Connecticut Acad.
Sci 8, 1891. young emerge, though she may carry it about within the nest.
In no case have I seen the mothers with cocoons taking food before the young hatch; the nest is kept closed through this period, and the spiders pay little attention to insects moving on its outer surface.
Geotrecha.
G. crocota and G. pinnata were not observed to make any nests in confinement, while G. bivittata constructs a very thin, small saccular nest.
The conclusion of the cocooning was described by me (1903) for G. (Thargalia) bivittata, and this summer I have seen the act several times in the case of G. pinnata, and as follows: The cocoons are discoidal, excessively flattened and scale-like, their free surface (cover) very tough in consistency and difficult to tear open; under natural conditions they are spun against a stone, while all of the six cocoons made in my glass cages were placed at the junction of the floor and the side ; thus they were circular discs bent in the middle at a right angle.
$ 1566 on 22 July began spinning a cocoon-base at 7.20 P.M. She spun slowly, sweeping the spinnerets from side to side, over an area of about one and a half times her body length, at the junction of the wall and the floor, so that half the base was horizontal and half vertical.
Half an hour later her labor had accomplished a ring of pearly silk, most beautiful to behold, slightly elevated and with almost no silk in the enclosed space.
At 8.35 she began spinning rapidly on this central space, then from 8.55-9.45 she was repeatedly interrupted by the males A and B (as previously described) At 10.45 she ceased to sweep her spinnerets across the base, and instead raised and lowered them in applying silk near the middle of the disc, at the same time swaying her body backward and forward, thus producing a central cushion of softer texture.
After each spinneret application the abdominal apex was elevated to a height equal to about two-thirds the length of her cephalothorax, then the spinnerets again applied.
She ceased this abruptly at 10.57, stood over the centre of the base, discharged from her genital aperture a clear globule of viscid fluid upon it, and in this discharged in succession 8 large yellow eggs, this whole oviposition occupying two and a half minutes.
But she attempted in vain to liberate herself from the viscid drop, and began to eat the eggs; this miscarriage may have been due to the late copulation.
In the case of another individual ( 9 1572) the work on the cocoon base lasted from 9.45-10.57 P.M., the oviposition for a minute and a half, and the cover-spinning from 11.00 P.M. to after 12.45 A.M., when I left for weariness.
The first ten minutes of the cover-making were occupied in carrying thread from the edge of the base on to and across the egg mass, with swinging of the abdomen from side to side; the remainder of the time in brushing the spinnerets to and fro without raising them, which resulted in the dense structure of the outer surface of the cover.
Next morning the cocoon was partly covered with small debris (bits of earth and wood, fragments of insects), and rendered much less conspicuous.
The free surface of the cocoon is always furnished in this manner; it is never enclosed in a nest, and the mother does not remain by it.
The cocoon is not only partiall} r hidden in this way, but it is so closely adherent, so flattened and so tough, that the eggs are most excellently protected, and this explains why so few eggs are laid.
Two cocoons were found with 8 eggs each, and three with 9.
The method of applying the foreign objects to the cocoon was seen clearly in the case of two cocoons made by other females during the night of 26 July, some time between 10.30 P.M. and 7.30 A.M.
These cocoons were placed only an inch apart, the mothers did not seem to distinguish their own from the other's, and proceeded to furnish either impartially.
Each mother hunted around the cage by touch, for small objects, carried them in the chelicera to a cocoon, also found by touch (though there appeared to be some memory of its situation), then dropped them upon a cocoon.
Then the mothers chewed these objects into smaller particles, and agglutinated them to the cocoon evidently by some salivary secretion, and to this secretion is also probably due the change in color of the cocoon surface from a beautiful opaline, or pearly, lustre to a dull brown.
So far as I know this is the first instance described of the application of some salivary secretion to the cocoon surface; very likely the bluish or greenish colors of the outer layer of Lycosid cocoons are also due to a similar secretion from the mouth, for the silk employed is white, and the cocoon does not change its white color until the mother holds it beneath her and carefully applies her mouth parts to all of its surface.
This secretion may have the value of a varnish, a finish smoothing over all irregularities.
Phrurolithus alarius (Hentz).
As Emerton (1889) notes, this drassid "lives on and under stones in dry, open ground and runs with great swiftness short distances at a time/' The spiders are much less frequently seen than their cocoons.
The latter are tightly fastened to stones, scarlet in color, probably due to a salivary secretion, much flattened and scale-like, of greater diameter than the spider's length, and are sometimes covered with foreign matter.
They are not guarded by the mother, and it was only by keeping these spiders in cages that the makers of these cocoons were determined.
One cocoon that I opened contained only 13 eggs.
Prosthesima atra (Hentz).
These common drassids live beneath stones in small, thin-walled nests.
A remarkable habit was seen on several occasions during the nest-making in cages : the spider spins first upon the floor of the cage beneath her, then at intervals stands nearly vertical with the head down rotating the elevated abdomen on its pedicel, or else bending it quickly from side to side ; the abdominal apex then describes circles in the air with the spinnerets actively moving.
This is done for a few seconds at a time, and alternated irregularly with spinning on the floor.
Such an attitude has not been seen by me before.
Is it an attempt to find some roofing object against which to spin, or is it a throwing or casting of a line?
Emerton (/.
c.) has observed that the "cocoon is fiat on one side, by which it is attached, and convex on the other.
It is white, or sometimes a little pink."
The cocoon is sometimes, but not always, thinly covered with foreign particles, and is guarded by the mother, who rests upon it ; but she does not hold it nearly so tenaciousl} r as Drassus does.
Wild cocoons are found first in the early part of August, and sometimes two are found superimposed.
Poecilochroa.
A female of P. variegata (Hentz) was placed in a vial, where she made an incomplete nest at one end.
On 27 July at 7.30 A.M. she was standing in a small cell within this nest upon a nearly completed cocoon-base ; this base was thin, roughly circular in outline, its diameter about one and a half times her body length, and placed almost vertical, with its margins fastened to the inner wall of the nest.
She oviposited upon the centre of this base from 8.02 to 8.04, then spun until 9.15 constructing the cover.
Until 1 September, when the young emerged, the cocoon remained in the same position, attached by its edges to the nest, with the mother holding it continuously.
A female of P. bilineata (Hentz) was caught on 11 July, and on the night of 13 July made a cocoon : a flattened circular disc, placed horizontally, its diameter greater than her length with outstretched legs, its color glistening ivory-white with a pearly lustre.
She subsequently made a closed nest around it, did not change its position, but remained upon it; she left the nest for the first time four weeks later, but returned to it ; the young hatched 17 August.
A wild cocoon of this species contained 22 eggs.
Range of Architecture in Drassids.
— The observations just described show an interesting series: Pcecilochroa, which leaves the cocoon attached to the nest and holds it until hatching; Drassus, which cuts loose the cocoon from the nest wall, but which also holds the cocoon continuously until hatching; Prosthesima, which makes a much thinner nest and holds the cocoon within it, but not tenaciously, and occasionally places foreign objects on its surface; and Geotrecha, which makes only a very slight nest (bivittata) or no nest at all (pinnata), and which does not guard the cocoon, but regularly garnishes it with foreign matter.
The last condition is probably the most modified, for it represents the loss of the maternal instinct.
At the end of this series the number of eggs is least.
37 The following Reports were ordered to be printed : REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
It is gratifying to be able to report that, notwithstanding the important and, it might be supposed, disturbing building operations of the past year, the routine work of the Academy has been but little interfered with.
The October meetings, indeed, had to be omitted, because, while the old Library Hall was dismantled, the new Reading Room was not quite ready.
The meetings of the Academy will hereafter be held here, except on occasions of extraordinary and therefore large attendance, when the Lecture Hall on the floor below will be available.
Fourteen meetings were, therefore, held during the Academic year, at which the average attendance was forty-four.
Verbal communications, for the most part illustrated, were made by Messrs. F. Creighton Wellman, John W. Harshberger, F. Lynwood Garrison, Philip P. Calvert, Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., J. M. MacFarlane, Henry Skinner, Frank F. Keeley, Arthur Erwin Brown, Edwin G. Conklin, Henry A. Pilsbry, Stewardson Brown, Gilbert Van Ingen, Edwin T. Wherry, Benjamin Smith Lyman, and the Secretary.
Thirty-six papers have been received for publication from the following authors: Henry A. Pilsbry, 4; H. A. Pilsbry and James H. Ferriss, 2; H. A. Pilsbry and E, G. Vanatta, 1; H. A. Pilsbry and C. Montague Clark, 1 ; H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase, 1 ; H. A. Pilsbry and A.
A. Hinkley, 1 ; R. V. Chamberlin, 3; Thos.
H. Montgomery, Jr., 2; Stewardson Brown, 2; J. P. Moore, 2; John W. Harshberger, 2; James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, 2; F. Creighton Wellman, 1 ; Charles S. Boyer, 1 ; G. E. Crampton, 1 ; Nathan Banks, 1 ; F. J. Keeley, 1; F. W. Weymouth, 1; Robert T. Young, 1; A. E. Verrill and A. H. Verrill, 1; Burnett Smith, 1; Clarence B. Moore, 1; Ales Hrdlicka, 1; Thomas Barbour, 1; Henry W. Fowler, 1.
Twenty-nine of these have appeared as portions of the sixty-first volume of the Proceedings ; four have been returned to the authors, and action has been deferred on one.
The two papers by Messrs. Moore and Hrdlicka form the first part of the fourteenth volume of the quarto Journal.
The number is beautifully illustrated by text figures and eight plates of Indian pottery.
The latter are superb specimens of color printing and present as faithful a representation of the objects, themselves of quite unexpected beauty, as art can at present secure.
The Academy is indebted for this continuation of the Journal to the liberality and devotion to his chosen branch of science of Mr. Clarence B. Moore.
As evidence that the building operations and movings have not curtailed the work of the Publication Committee, it may be noted that the issue of the various serials now sent out under the auspices of the Academy is 129 pages in excess of that of last year, which itself was unusually productive.
The number of illustrative plates, however,.
is 38 less than reported in 1908.
The record is as follows : Proceedings, 636 pages and 27 plates; Journal, 252 pages and 8 plates; Entomological News, 444 pages and 22 plates; Transactions of the American Entomological Society (The Entomological Section of the Academy), 486 pages and 12 plates; Manual of Conchology t 250 pages and 26 plates, making a total of 2,068 pages and 95 plates.
The index to the publications of the Academy has been completed up to and including the volume of the Proceedings for 1905.
The short history of the Academy prepared as a contribution to the Founders' Week Memorial Volume and read at the meeting of the Academy held April 6 has been published.
It will be issued in a separate edition and distributed to members, correspondents and others interested, in the hope that it may elicit comment, criticism and perhaps correction, which will render of more permanent value the detailed history in course of preparation for the Centenary of the Academy in 1912.
The accumulated stock of the Proceedings, Journal and miscellaneous publications, held for sale and exchange, has been removed from the upper story of the middle building to cases prepared for storage in the basement.
This is the fourth time this material has been moved to provide for the requirements of other interests since the occupancy of the corner building in 1876.
It has been well said that three movings are as bad as a fire, and it is earnestly to be hoped that the present resting place will be permanent until the parts are distributed in fulfilment of their legitimate purpose as contributions to science.
Incidentally an account of stock has been taken.
Ten members and five correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of fourteen members and six correspondents have been announced.
Messrs. J. H. Austin and Henry Pemberton have resigned.
The loss sustained by the Academy in the death of Henry Cadwalader Chapman, so intimately concerned for many years with the scientific and administrative interests of the society, requires more than passing mention, and the Recording Secretary has been charged with the preparation of a biographical notice which, it is hoped, will be ready for presentation early the coming year.
The birth of Charles Darwin and the publication of the Origin of Species were fittingly commemorated by a well attended meeting on February 16, at which addresses were made by the President, Dr. Arthur Erwin Brown, and Dr. Edwin G. Conklin.
A successful meeting of the American Museums Association was held in the Academy, May 13.
Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
During the year six correspondents of the Academy died and five were elected.
Those deceased are Prof. Jean Albert Gaudry, Prof. Perceval de Loriol Le Fort, Prof. Rudolph Bergh, Dr. Robert E. C. Stearns, Dr. Anton Dohrn and Prof. Kakichi Mitsukuri; and those elected, Dr. John Mason Clarke, Dr. Robert F. Scharff, Dr. Albert Leon Charles Calmette, Dr. Sven A. Hedin and Prof. Oscar Drude.
In accordance with the award of last year the Hayden Gold Medal was, on December 11, transmitted to Dr. John Mason Clarke, and an acknowledgment of the same duly received, together with an official copy of a minute appreciative of the Academy's action passed by Dr. Clarke's associates on the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York.
Among the events of importance to the scientific world in which the Academy was invited to participate were the following: The presentation of an international testimonial in honor of Amedeo Avogadro, the student of the molecular constitution of gases; the Fiftieth Anniversary of the founding of the Botanical Institute of Brandenburg; the Three hundred and fiftieth Anniversary of the foundation of the University of Geneva; the Darwin Centenary exercises of the New York Academy of Sciences ; the International Congress of Mining, Metallurgy and Practical Geology; the Seventeenth International Congress of Americanists; the dedication exercises of the Lamarck Centenary memorial statue in Paris; the Jubilee of the Geological Society of Glasgow, and the presentation by President Taft of medals in recognition of their services to aeronautics to Wilbur and Orville Wright.
As delegates representing the Academy at the Glasgow jubilee and the University of Geneva celebration, Sir Archibald Geikie and Dr. Auguste Forel, both correspondents, were respectively appointed.
While no delegates were appointed to represent the Academy on the other occasions, suitable letters of congratulation or expressions of interest were in each case forwarded.
As a mark of appreciation of our contribution toward defraying the expenses of its project, the Lamarck Memorial Committee in Paris presented the Academy with the interesting bust of the great French evolutionist that now adorns the Reading Room.
Numerous letters and notices were answered or referred to the proper officers of the Academy, as their nature required.
Following is a tabulated statement of the statistics of the correspondence for the year : Communications Received.
Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications, 209 Transmitting publications to the Academy, 82 Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies, 3 Invitations to learned gatherings, 13 Notices of deaths of scientific men, 16 Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, etc., .
.
10 Biographies and photographs of correspondents 21 Miscellaneous letters, 103 Total received 457 Communications Forwarded.
Acknowledging gifts to the Library , • 1,199 Acknowledging gifts to the Museum, 86 Acknowledging photographs and biographies, 1-4 Requesting the supply of deficiencies in periodicals, 93 Letters of sympathy and congratulation, etc., 9 Miscellaneous letters, 83 Annual Reports sent to correspondents, 234 Circular letters, 94 Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents, 13 Total forwarded, 1,825 Respectfully submitted, J. Percy Moore, Correspo tiding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
Notwithstanding the interruptions occasioned by the building operations and the removal of the Library, the accessions for the cur574 [Dec, rent year exceed in number those of 1908.
There have been received of pamphlets and periodicals 6,256, volumes 943, maps 147, and one engraving, making a total of 7,347.
They have been received from the following sources: Societies I. V. Williamson Fund Editors United States Department of Agriculture General Appropriation United States Department of the Interior Authors James Aitken Meigs Fund United States Treasury Department University of Chicago Thomas B. WilsOn Fund United States Department of Commerce and Labor Geological Survey of Canada Department of the Interior of the Philippines Department of Mines, Canada.... Department of Agriculture, Cape of Good Hope Botanical Survey of India Geological Survey of India Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture Ministry of Public Works, France Geological Committee of Russia.... H. A. Pilsbry Corps of Mining Engineers of Peru Edward J. Nolan Department of Agriculture, Netherland India United States War Department.... Geological Survey of Japan British Museum Geological Institute of Mexico International Union of American Republics Ministry of Colonization, etc., Bolivia Geological Survey of Wisconsin.... Geological Survey of Western Australia Department of Mines, New South Wales Library of Congress Department of Agriculture in India Mississippi State Geological Survey Madame Leo Errera Department of Mines, Victoria Thomas Biddle '.
Geological Survey of Connecticut 2,754 Missouri Bureau of Geology, etc.... 2,611 Commissioners of Fisheries and 503 Game, Massachusetts Publication Committee, Academy.
409 South African Central Locust 254 Bureau Bureau of American Ethnology.... 162 Illinois Bureau of Labor Statistics 152 Albert I. of Monaco 149 Special Exchange Geological Survey of Georgia 42 Geological Commission, Cape of 30 Good Hope 27 Board of Scientific Advice for India 22 New Zealand Geological Survey.... 20 Due de Loubat Superintendent of Public Docu18 ments, Washington 16 Geological Bureau, Roumania Hawaii Agricultural Experiment 16 Station 14 Guatemalan Government 14 Geological Survey of Virginia Geological Survey of Oklahoma.... 13 Henry R. Wharton 13 Philip P. Calvert 12 Department of Fisheries, Penn12 sylvania 12 Trustees of the Indian Museum.... 12 William W. Keen Department of Mines, Nova 11 Scotia 9 Geological Survey of Iowa 8 Geological Survey of Illinois 8 Foote Mineral Co 7 Department of Agriculture, Trindad 6 Commission for the Scientific Exploration of the German 6 Seas in Kiel 6 Government of India Commission of Mines of Carvao 6 de Pedra, Brazil Bentham Trustees, Kew Gardens.. 5 A. E. Outerbridge, Jr 4 Agricultural Faculty of La Plata.
.
Game Commissioners of Pennsyl4 vania Geological Survey of New Jersey.. 4 Department of Geology, Indiana.. 4 Geological Commission of Por4 tugal 4 Colorado Geological Survey 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 They were distributed to the several departments of the Library as follows : Journals 5,602 Mineralogy 28 Agriculture 319 Medicine 25 Geology 278 Helminthology 22 Botany 249 Mammalogy 22 General Natural History 152 Physical Science 18 Geography '.
130 Bibliography 17 Voyages and Travels 117 Ichthyology 15 Entomology 98 Chemistry 10 Anatomy and Physiology 73 Mathematics 4 Anthropology 66 Encyclopedias 1 Conchology 36 Unclassified 29 Ornithology 36 Fifteen hundred and seventy-eight volumes have been bound since the last report.
Among the new books acquired during the year that are worthy of special mention are the following: J. D. Hooker's Botany of the Antarctic Voyage of H. M. Discovery Ships Erebus and Terror, in seven quarto volumes.
A complete set of thirtytwo volumes of the periodical Kosmos, published in Lemberg.
Kops and Van Eeden's Flora Batava, a complete set to date of twenty-three quarto volumes.
Ungarische Revue from 1885 to 1895, received from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in response to an application for deficiencies.
Journal of the Anthropological Society of Bombay, Volumes 1 to 7.
The publications of the Scottish National Antarctic Expedition.
Transactions of the Leicester Literary and Philosophical Society from 1835 to 1895.
Volumes 1 to 13, inclusive, of Forest and Stream, completing our set of that periodical.
A set of the J ahresbericht ilber die Fortschritte der physischen Wissenschaften (der Chemie und Physiologie) , in thirty volumes.
The following new journals have been added to the list: Archiv filr die Geschichte der Naturioissenschaften und Technik, Leipzig.
Zcitschrift fiir induktive Abstammungsund Vererbungslehre, Berlin.
Zeitschrift fiir Botanik, Jena.
Dorfleria, Vienna.
Mannus, Wurzburg.
Natur, Leipzig.
Proshistorische Zeitschrift, Berlin.
The current year is probably the most important in the history of the Library, marked, as it has been, by a radical change in the manner of shelving and preserving the books.
The rear portion of the building, completed during the summer, will ultimately contain seven tiers of steel stacks for the accommodation of the Library.
The five of these now in place provide more than twice the former shelfing, upon which approximately 120,000 volumes can be placed, so that at the present rate of growth it is not likely that the two additional stacks will be required during the lifetime of any but the youngest members of the Academy.
The first armful of books, a collection of Academy lists, catalogues, biographies, histories and the five bound volumes of Leidyana, was carried to the new building at 4.30 P.M., August 25.
The followingday the cases in the Reading Room were filled.
After an unavoidable interruption work was resumed on the 30th, and, with the help of a corps of six reliable and intelligent men, by September 22d the books were all in place, three weeks having been devoted to the work.
The position of the several sections of the library had been determined on before the moving began, and they were placed at once where they are to remain, care being taken to leave space for growth.
More time was, of course, thus consumed than if the books had been carried over and piled up to await a later arrangement; but the gain in the end was of importance, as the work was complete as far as it went.
The books were always accessible, and, as a matter of fact, the use < >f the Library was not interfered with for a single hour.
The cases have been numbered, and the several sections are indicated by neatly lettered signs at the ends of the stacks.
A printed guide to the arrangement will further assist those consulting the collection.
It has not, so far, been necessary to make any special legislation regarding admission to the stacks.
Those working in the Academy seem to have no difficulty in finding what they want, and books desired by casual readers are promptly supplied by the attendants.
The catalogues will be revised as soon as time can be secured for the work.
There has been but one departure from the old classification: the special journals have been grouped under their subject headings; transactions of general societies and other publications dealing with more than one branch of science being arranged geographically, as before.
The new arrangement, although sacrificing in some minor particulars the convenience so enthusiastically recognized by all who had access to the old hall, is eminently satisfactory.
Three well-lighted and convenient apartments between the Reading Room and the stacks have been assigned for the use of the Recording Secretary and Librarian and his Assistant.
The spacious Reading Room has been surrounded by bookcases, in which are placed the books most likely to be frequently called for — a portion of those on general natural history, recent accessions, dictionaries and bibliography.
With the exception of the cases for the temporary reception of new books, this is more a matter of furnishing than of library convenience, as no difficulty is experienced in securing any work desired from the stacks, which are sufficiently lighted by the windows in ordinarily fine weather, the electric lights provided in the aisles being required only on cloudy days and late in the afternoon.
A room on the stairway leading to the Lecture Hall has been appropriated for the storage of duplicates and of journals not immediately germane to the work of the Academy.
The rooms vacated by the Library, to the east of the Race street entrance, have, on the recommendation of the Council, been assigned for the use of the State Department of Health during the term of office of the present State Commissioner, the President of the Academy, and are now so occupied.
There has been no interruption of current work.
Books have been ordered, received and catalogued, exchanges have been made and accessions displayed as usual on the library tables for the use of those compiling bibliographies or desirous of keeping up their knowledge of the progress of science.
Acknowledgment is due the Assistant Librarian, William J.
Fox, for most intelligent and efficient service in the moving of the books to the new building and of the stock of publications to the new storage cases, as well as for the faithful discharge of his current duties in connection with the Library and the Publication office.
We are indebted to the Free Library of Philadelphia for the loan of the trucks used in the transportation of the books to the new building.
It is believed that the portion of the year's work with which the Library Committee and the Librarian are charged may be regarded as a subject of warm congratulation.
Edward J. Nolan, Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The additions and alterations to the Academy buildings, begun in the spring of 1908 under an appropriation of $150,000 from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, have been completed.
The entrance from Race street has been remodeled and now presents a commanding hallway which leads directly to the main Museum building, through the space formerly occupied by the old Lecture Hall.
The stairways in the main Museum building have been removed to the Nineteenth street entrance, from which a new vestibule has been constructed, shut off from the galleries of each floor by fire-walls and automatic fire-doors.
On the lot situated at Nineteenth and Cherry streets, 50 x 130 feet in size, has been erected a handsome fireproof building, now occupied by the Hall of the Academy, the Library stack and Reading Room.
The third floor, with the top floor of the main Museum building, have been divided into a number of study rooms and laboratories.
All are reached by an electric elevator.
In the old Museum all the iron columns have been fireproofed and fire escapes provided to comply with the legal requirememts.
New vaults for the storage of the alcoholic collections have been constructed and the collections transferred to them.
The increased room and accommodations now provided have long been needed for the protection and accommodation of the invaluable Library and Museum of the Academy and the collections of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the American Philosophical Society, deposited in its keeping.
At this year's session of the State Legislature an additional appropriation of $60,000 was made to the Academy, with which it is proposed to encase the walls of the original greenstone building, which are becoming badly weathered, with brick and terra cotta, and to add such terra cotta facings to the middle wing as will make the entire building uniform in appearance.
The Museum, which had been closed to the public during the alterations, was reopened early in the year, and much of the time of the Museum staff has been devoted to the cleansing and rearrangement of the specimens.
A radical rearrangement has been effected on the mammal floor and many of the osteological specimens temporarily removed from exhibition.
All the water birds were removed while the cases were being cleansed and repainted and were then rearranged.
The immense series of jars containing the alcoholic collections have been thoroughly cleansed before being arranged in the new vaults.
Notwithstanding this unusual amount of routine work, considerable local field work was done by members of the Museum staff and several more extended trips were made.
Largely through the liberality of Mr. Morgan Hebard, Mr. Rehn was enabled to accompany him on a trip through the Western States, and a large collection of Orthoptera and some other specimens were secured.
Through the Esther Hermann Research Fund of the New York Academy of Sciences, Mr. Stewardson Brown was enabled to make another botanical exploration of Bermuda during May in the interests of the New York Botanic Garden and this Academy.
Dr. J. P. Moore spent the summer collecting marine invertebrates at Martha's Vineyard and Woods Hole.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his explorations of the Indian mounds of the Southern States, and has added many valuable specimens to the collection made by him since 1893.
The Moore collection now contains over 5,000 specimens, all systematically arranged and labelled by Mr. Moore.
Among the more important accessions of the year may be mentioned the Clemens collection of Philippine birds, the Hinkley collection of Mexican mollusca, a collection of Brazilian insects made by Miss H. B. Merrill — all secured [by purchase — and the Commons Herbarium, an unusually complete collection of the flora of Delaware, made by Mr. Albert Commons, and presented to the Academy by his nephews, Messrs. Frank W. and Howard W. Commons.
One mahogany and plate glass exhibition case has been added to the bird hall, and forty-three storage cases and 15S Schmidt insect boxes have been purchased.
In addition Dr. J. P. Moore has cared for the collection of annelids and Mr. H. W. Fowler the fishes, while Miss H. N. Wardle has arranged portions of the archaeological specimens.
To Mr. Sam'l S. Van Pelt in the Herbarium and to Mr. E. T. Cresson , Jr. , in the Entomological department the Curators are indebted for valuable assistance.
Specimens have been loaned during the year to A. S. Hitchcock, C. J. Pennock, Dr. Ludwig Neumayer, J. H. Fleming, F. C. Baker, Mary J. Rathbun, Robert Ridgway, Dr. Paul Bartsch, H. C. Oberholser, Merritt Cary and W. W. Eggleston.
Samuel G. Dixon, Curator.
Report of the Department of Mollusca.
Work during the past year has been chiefly directed to the preparation, determination and labelling of new material added to the collections, and to the preparation of an illustrated monograph on the family Partulidce, which has been published in the Manual of Conch ology.
Very large accessions of the mollusca of Louisiana and southeastern Arkansas we owe to Mr. Clarence B. Moore.
Mr. Stewardson Brown has further augmented the series from Bermuda, and the study of Arizona snails collected by J. H. Ferriss and the Curator has nearly reached completion; reports thereon are now in course of publication by the Academy.
The shells collected by Mr. A.
A. Hinkley in Mexico have been determined, and the new forms described in several papers.
Mr. John B. Henderson, Jr., has contributed a series of Cuban shells collected this year, and Dr. Arnold Ortmann gave a set of western Pennsylvania freshwater mussels, especially valuable on account of the rapid destruction of the faunas of these streams by mine water.
A large series of mollusks from Tonkin has been purchased, in order to afford material for comparison with those of China, Korea and Japan, which the Curator is working upon.
Accessions hardly less valuable have been received from many correspondents of the Department, as noted in the' Additions to the Museum.
H. A. PlLSBRY, Special Curator, Dept.
of Mollusca.
REPORTS OF SECTIONS.
Biological and Microscopical Section.
The Section has held nine regular meetings during the year, with an average attendance of nine members.
Ten informal meetings have also been held.
The Conservator reports the donation of six boxes of slides from the estate of the late Dr. Henry C. Chapman.
The work of the year consisted chiefly in the exhibition and description of mounted slides and material by each member present, and in the exchange of specimens for mounting, among which may be mentioned a valuable series of about seventy rare minerals in microscopic crystals distributed by Mr. Keeley.
Among the papers presented are the following: "Microscopical Image Formation," by Mr. F. J. Keeley, published in the Proceedings; "The Hookworm Disease," by Dr. T. S. Stewart.
Mr. Palmer described a new form of Pinnularia which he has named Pinnularia socialis, found in groups of four.
Mr. Van Sickel devised a new form of opaque mounting slide, and, at the request of members, several thousand were manufactured from his design for general use.
Mr. Shulze discovered several new forms of Diatomacece in the Barbacloes deposit, one of which has been named and described by Mr. Boyer in the Proceedings.
Mr. Schumo presented various specimens and gave a talk on Mosses, illustrated with lantern slides.
Communications were also made by Mr. Bilgram on Myxomycetes; Dr. Owen, on salt solutions; Mr. Da vies, on various vegetable preparations; Mr. Van Sickel, on the crystallization of Platinum; Mr. Boyer, on local diatoms, and by Messrs. Keeley, Rothermel, Ray and other members, on miscellaneous subjects.
An increased interest is apparent in the preparation of specimens and in the manipulation of the microscope and much original work has been accomplished during the year.
The officers for the year 1910 are as follows: Director, Vice-Director, Recorder, Corresponding Seer eta ry, Treasurer, .
Conservator, J. Cheston Morris, M.D.
T. Chalkley Palmer.
Charles S. Boyer.
Silas L. Schumo.
Thomas S. Stewart, M.D.
F. J. Keeley.
Charles S. Boyer, Recorder.
Entomological Section.
The usual meetings of this Section have been held with an average attendance of nine persons.
During the year upwards of 3,000 specimens have been added to the collection.
Eight new cases and 158 boxes have been purchased to accommodate the growth of the cabinet.
The orders Hemiptera and Neuroptera and the family Tenthredinidse of the order Hymenoptera have been rearranged.
Part of the American Rhopalocera has been transferred to new cases.
The publications of the Section have been successfully continued.
One member and two associates have been elected.
At a meeting held December 23 the following officers were elected: Director, Vice-Director, Treasurer, Secretary, Conservator and Recorder, Publication Committee, Philip Laurent.
H. W. Wenzel.
E. T. Cresson.
E. T. Cresson, Jr. Henry Skinner, M.D.
E. T. Cresson, E. T. Cresson, Jr. Botanical Section.
Early in the year the work of putting the species of flowering plants into covers was completed, which will prove not only a convenience in studying, but will also secure a decrease in the possible breakage of specimens.
The most notable addition during the year has been the Albert Commons Herbarium of Delaware plants, representing his collecting during half a century.
It is probably the most complete series of the flora of the State, including not only the flowering plants and ferns, but also the lower forms, fungi, etc.
The collections were presented to the Academy by Messrs. Frank W. and Howard W. Commons, of Minneapolis, Minn. Other donations include a collection of 50 species of Bucks County, Pa., Crataegus from Dr. C. D. Fretz; 160 Crataegus and other trees and shrubs from the Arnold Arboretum ; 250 specimens of plants from the eastern United States from E. B. Bartram, and smaller collections, aggregating about 150 specimens, which will be noted in detail in the Additions to the Museum.
The Section has purchased 500 specimens of California and Nevada plants from A.
A. Heller; 40 specimens of Crataegus from Willard W. Eggleston and 100 Mexican mosses from C. G. Pringle.
The Conservator spent the time from May 22 to June 2 of the present year in the Bermudas, w T here a collection of about 250 plants was made, and, though not large in species, enabled him to determine some uncertain records, besides adding a number to the known flora of the islands.
The results of this and two previous trips are embodied in a paper in the current number of the Proceedings.
The Philadelphia Botanical Club has continued to hold its meetings in the herbarium of the Academy during the year, and through the energy of its members 2,100 sheets have been added to the local collection, in the care of which Mr. Samuel S. Van Pelt has continued his valuable services as Curator.
Acknowledgment is made of the services of Miss Ada Allen as assistant in the herbarium during the year.
At the annual meeting of the Section the following were elected as officers for the coming year: Director, Benjamin H. Smith.
Vice-Director, Joseph Crawford.
Secretary and Recorder, .
.
.
Charles S. Williamson.
Treasurer and Conservator, .
.
.
Stewardson Brown.
Respectfully submitted, Stewardson Brown, Conservator.
The Mineralogical and Geological Section.
The Section held seven meetings in 1909, with an average attendance of six.
Communications were made by Prof. O. C. S. Carter, on earthquakes ; Dr. E. T. Wherry, on fossil plants at Holicong, Bucks County, with a report on them by Dr. David White ; Mr. T. C. Palmer, on minute beryls at Avondale, Delaware County; B. S. Lyman, on the need of instrumental surveying in practical geology, and on advantages of not exaggerating the vertical scale in geological cross-sections ; Col. Joseph Willcox, on fossil elephants, Glyptodon, manatee and horses in Florida ; Mr. F. J. Keeley, on asteriated sapphire from Ceylon; Miss E. Walter, on sub-fossil Sequoia in San Francisco.
The Section also met in conjunction with the Academy on the evening of May 18th, and made through its members three communications to the meeting.
There were six field excursions of the Section, with an average attendance of about 29.
On all the excursions, except the third, the parties visited crystalline rocks and their minerals, namely: (1) Between Woodlane and Ardmore, Montgomery County; (2) between Elwyn and Newtown Square, Delaware County; (3) New Red rocks and trapdikes, between Camp Hill and Three Tuns, Montgomery County; (4) near Moylan, Strath Haven, Avondale and Cram Creek, Delaware County; (5) near Cynwyd, Mill Creek and Bryn Mawr, Montgomery County; (6) near Glen Mills, Lenni, Chester County, and Blackhorse, Delaware County.
Besides the meetings and excursions of the Section, there was, by its invitation, a numerously attended meeting of geologists of the northeastern part of the United States held at the Academy on the afternoon and evening of April 23d, at which six highly valuable communications were read, followed, the next day, by a very profitable field excursion of 23 participants, under the guidance of Prof. Bascom, to typical places of pre-Cambrian and early Paleozoic rocks, from Lafayette up the Schuylkill to Norristown, and thence to Henderson, Gulf Mills and Bryn Mawr.
The membership of the Section has increased during the year by three associate members.
The field excursions lead to joining it as associate members; and sometimes immediately, or later through interest in the meetings, to becoming members of the Academy.
The full membership is now 25 members and 15 associate members, 40 in all.
The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 1910: Director, ..... Benjamin Smith Lyman.
Vice-Director, ..... Frank J. Keeley.
Recorder and Secretary, .
.
.
Silas L. Schumo.
Treasurer and Conservator, .
.
George Vaux, Jr. Respectfully submitted by order of the Section.
Benjamin Smith Lyman, Director.
Ornithological Section.
Work in the Ornithological department has been seriously hampered during the past year by the alterations to the top floor of the Museum.
which necessitated the disarrangement of most of the cases for nearly six months, while the demands upon the Conservator's time in looking after other departments of the Museum and the absence of Mr. Rehn in the West also interfered with the work of the department.
The cases have now, however, been permanently placed, all the drawers examined and the specimens arranged, while the rooms have been thoroughly cleaned.
The remainder of the Tristram and Porter collections, comprising several thousand skins, have been systematically distributed, and the Van der Pol collection has been catalogued, while the Limnicolce or shore birds have been critically studied, reidentified and arranged in standard metal cases.
It was found necessary to remove a large part of the exhibition series from the cases, so as to permit of the cleansing of both specimens and cases.
A portion of this work has been accomplished, and one new exhibition case secured.
For the study collection of skins ten additional metal and four large wooden cases were procured, which enables us for the first time to place the entire study series in 1909.]
585 standard cases.
A number of valuable additions to the collection have been made during the year, the most important being the Clemens specimens from Mindanao, Philippine Islands.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held their meetings in the Ornithological rooms during the year, and have done much to further the interests of the department.
To Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn the Conservator is indebted for valuable assistance in labelling and cataloguing.
The officers elected at the annual meeting, December 2, 1909, are: Director, ...... Spencer Trotter, M.D.
Vice-Director, Corresponding Secretary, .
Recorder, Conservator and Treasurer, George Spencer Morris.
William A. Shryock.
St ewa rdson Brown .
Witmer Stone.
Witmer Stone, Conservator.
The annual election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Committee on Accounts to serve during 1910 was held, with the following result: President, Vice-Presidents, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian, Curators, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D.
Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. George Vaux, Jr. Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.
D., Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone.
Councillors to serve three years, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.
D., Thomas Biddle, M.D.. Committee on Accounts.
Frederick Prime, Frank J. Keeley.
Charles Morris, Samuel N. Rhoads, John G. Rothermel, Thomas IF Montgomery, Ph.D., Frank J. Keeley.
38 586 COUNCIL FOR 1910.
[Dec, Ex-ofjicio.
— Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D., Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone.
To serve three years.
— Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., Frederick Prime, Frank J. Keeley.
To serve two years.
— Charles B. Penrose, M.D., Charles Morris, Henry Tucker, M.D., Spencer Trotter, M.D.
To serve one year.
— Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D.
Curator of Mollusca, Assistant Librarian, Assistants to Curators, Assistant, .
Taxidermist, Jessup Fund Students, Janitors, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D.
William J.
Fox.
Henry Skinner, M.D., Stewardson Brown, J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., Edward Vanatta, Henry W. Fowler, James A. G. Rehn.
H. Newell Wardle.
David N. McCadden.
H. Newell Wardle, Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. Charles Clappier, Daniel Heckler, James Tague, Jacob Aebley, Adam E. Heckler.
