DESCRIPTION OF NEW SERPULIDS FROM BERMUDA WITH NOTES ON KNOWN FORMS FROM ADJACENT REGIONS.
BY KATHARINE J. BUSH, PH.D.
The following descriptions of species of Serpulids are of forms (six of which are considered as new to science) collected at Bermuda by Professor A. E. Yerrill and party, in 1S9S and 1901 ; also at the Island of Dominica, W. I., by A. H. Yerrill, in 1906.
A full description is given of the rediscovered species Pomatostegus bracliysoma of Schmarda who failed to mention characters which, at the present time, are considered of great importance in determining genera and species.
Notes are also given'of some of Mcintosh's species in which the genera is questionable; but the specimens are not sufficiently well preserved to reveal anyTadditional facts, so that the exact genera must still remain undetermined.
Mention is made of most, if not all, of the species belonging to the group found in the southern waters, and figures are introduced of important features of known Mediterranean forms collected at Beirut, Syria, and thought to have been incorrectly determined.
SALMACINOPSIS gen. nov.
This genus resembles Claparede's genus Salmacina, 1869 and 1870, (type S. incrustana Clap.
), in having few branchiae, no operculum and 9 thoracic segments, but differs in having simple tapered setae without fin-like basal expansion, in the collar fascicle and different shaped uncini, which are similar to those in the genus Protula, from which the 9 thoracic segments, absence of thoracic membrane and the peculiar branchiae readily distinguish it.
Type, the following species: Salmacinopsis setosa sp.
nov.
Numerous slender, rounded, rather fragile tubes attached their entire length were taken from a piece of dark green glass.
They are of uniform diameter, more or less irregularly curved, without sculpture, roughened by irregular lines of growth.
Body rounded, of uniform size, with broadly rounded blunt posterior end.
Anteriorly without distinct segmentation but posteriorly divided into well-rounded segments on one side.
Thoracic region defined only by setae and tori, there being 9 fascicles of seta?
alternating with 8 tori in a straight series.
No thoracic membrane along sides or posteriorly but an indistinctly four-lobed collar of moderate uniform depth, lapping along the median line, reaching but a short distance posteriorly with broadly rounded ends ; lateral incisions or clefts the depth of collar forming three definite unequal parts, the middle one emarginate in the center appearing as an indistinct double lobe.
Branchial lobes in the form of a rather deep collar-like membrane attached in a semicircle to the comparatively small stem-like cephalic lobe.
The branchiae, 4 on each side in the largest example, arise from this border and are peculiar in being but two sided, i.e., broad, flattened, thin with a single row of rather stout long pinnae in the middle of the inner surface, leaving a wide somewhat puckered margin or border on each side.
They are equal in length, twisted about each other in retraction, and have elongated tapered naked tips.
No operculum.
Tori and uncini of uniform size throughout entire body.
Small fascicles of setae on abdomen.
Setae on thorax long, slender, tapered, simple blades with long capillary ends, a few without blades, and in the last three fascicles (7-9) a few with short blades and long, broadened, deeply serrate ends.
Setae on abdomen strongly bent at base of moderately wide, somewhat abruptly tapered, conspicuously serrate blades; additional long stiff hair-like ones along caudal region.
Uncini resembling those of Protula, with numerous exceedingly fine appressed teeth and one very long fang-like end or terminal one.
Protula sp.
Two imperfect unattached tubes of good size, over 40 mm.
long and 4 mm.
in diameter, are slightly tapered and somewhat tortuous, the surface roughened by fine lines of growth.
Only the branchial lobes of the animal were found and are of interest in being elongated into a spiral of about one and a half turns bearing numerous, between thirty and forty (30-40), long slender branchiae having elongated tapered naked tips; they undoubtedly belong to a species of typical Protula.
■ Protula diomeda?
Benedict, 1886, has similar branchial lobes but is a very much larger species, building tubes 4 or 5 inches long.
The type was found off Cape Hatteras, N. C, in 43 fathoms.
Other specimens are cited from the Gulf of Mexico in 111 fathoms, and further rather remarkable range is given as extending north from Chesapeake Bay to the Grand Banks in 65 to 1,290 fathoms.
Protula alba Benedict, 1886, from shallow water at St. Thomas, W. I., has but twentyfive branchiae.
Protula submedia Augener.
1906, from off the Windward Islands in 127 to 248 fathoms, has uncini very like those of P. diomedce.
Protula antennata Ehlers, 1887, found off Cuba in 292 fathoms, does not belong in the genus Protula.
The uncini have the long terminal tooth, truncated and notched.
The Protis simplex Ehlers, 1887, has no operculum, but the collar setae bring it into close relation to the genus Salmacina.
The following species from Bermuda also has some affinity to the genus Protis.
* From a mass of very much coiled and twisted eroded tubes partially covered with sponges, ascidians, and bryozoans, an exceedingly interesting deep crimson colored annelid with darker spots and markings was taken.
The most perfect specimen is about 20 mm.
long, with between 60 and 70 segments, with 7 on the thorax, the fascicles of setae in very oblique series.
Branchial lobes wanting.
Collai apparently 4-lobed, reaching only to the 2d fascicle of setae; no later or posterior free border on thorax.
Collar setae with stout shaft or manubrium with long, narrow, serrate, abruptly tapered end, bent and somewhat enlarged at the base and coarsely serrate, spreading out, resembling a fin.
Other setae very long, very slender, with very delicate deeply fringed blade with long lash-like end.
Uncini small, very numerous; on the abdomen the tori reaching nearly around the body.
They are somewhat triangular with few (5 or 6) curved pointed teeth above an unusually large base, somewhat protruding beneath the very large terminal tooth.
Abdominal setae flaring, asymmetrical, with serrate edge.
The Filigrana Huxleyi Ehlers, 1887, from Tortugas, in 19 fathoms belongs to this group.
MEMBEANOPSIS sen. nov. Membranopsis inconspioua *p. nov. A small animal 6 mm.
long is of special interest in the development of the thoracic membrane.
As the branchial lobes are wanting its exact generic relation is indeterminable.
The 9 thoracic segments bring it in close relation to Salmacina, while the form of the uncini and abdominal setae show affinity to Apomatus ; the development of the thoracic membrane separates it from Salmacinopsis.
It is of a brownish color in preservation, rounded, with but little taper to the blunt posterior end.
There are 9 thoracic and about 25 abdominal segments.
The collar is of moderate depth, apparently of four (4) lobes, two rolling rounded median ones and two small lateral ones, which extend backward around the 3d fascicle of setae ; from the 4th to the 8th fascicle, the free border is deeply incised on the side of each forming separate deep narrow scollops; that of the 9th fascicle continues as a wide, free, unbroken border across the body to the opposite fascicle; the fascicles forming a straight series.
The setae on the collar are badly injured; a few show simple tapered rather stiff blades similar to those on the following segments; in the 7th to 9th fascicles, there are a few curved setae with short blades and broad, deeply serrate ends.
On the abdomen the setae are curved somewhat in cresent shape rather narrow and abruptly tapered toward the tip.
Uncini similar to those of Protula and Apomatus.
SUBPROTULA gen. nov. Branchial lobes jsmall, not spiral, the branchiae in a semicircle.
No operculum.
Collar three-lobed (3).
Thoracic membrane a free margin to the fifth (5) segment, no posterior border.
Thoracic segments seven (7).
Setae similar.
-'Jncini irregularly trapesiform with a number of teeth, the last large and square cut.
Type, the followingspecies : Subprotula longiseta sp.
nov. Nine good sized specimens (about 20 mm.
long) taken from dead coral from Castle Harbor, have short rachis-like branchial lobes, not spiral, with the moderately long, rather stout branchiae extending their entire length forming a kind of semicircle; the end of each abruptly contracted above the long pinnae then expanding into a conspicuous club-shaped tip, the inner surface covered with minute papillae; on one or two these appear to have become greatly enlarged, forming a closely crowded mass.
On the sides of each rachis.
which number fifteen (15) in each lobe, there are similar rounded or pearshaped papillae resembling uncolored occelli, close together at the base, becoming well separated distally.
No operculum.
Thoracic membrane very much developed, forming a deep rolling three (3)-lobed collar extending backward along the sides, gradually diminishing in width from the very large angular lateral flaps to the fifth (5th) fascicle of setae.
There is no free posterior border.
In front of the large median lobe a triangular or tongue-shaped process protects the mouth.
There are seven (7) fascicles of setae on the thorax and six (6) tori ; each of the latter situated on the posterior edge of a rectangular membrane successively increasing in size, often overlapping each other.
Setae numerous, all similar, very long, slender, with long capillary ends, the inferior ones the broader and more curved; on the collar a few capillary ones.
Uncini with about sixteen (16) teeth on the largest, the terminal one very large and truncated, not at all like that of Protula.
There are between fifty (50) and sixty (60) abdominal segments; the setse three or four (3 or 4) in a fascicle rather stiff, very long, regularly tapered from an angular base with conspicuously serrate edge; along the caudal region replaced by long hair-like ones.
As far as Schmarda's description and figures of Protula longiseta from the coral reefs of Jamaica shows, this species agrees fairly well.
The Bermuda form, however, cannot be placed in the genus P. sygmo<branchus.
in which Schmarda's species has been placed, as the type (P. protensus Gm.)
as given by Claparede, 1870, has small branchial Jobes with numerous branchiae in a circle, seven (7) thoracic segments, but with the collar entire and the uncini very distinctive, somewhat resembling those of Protula.
No genus is known that can include this Bermuda form, therefore the new name Subprotula is proposed with the specific name longiseta, avoiding multiplicity of names if it prove to be the same as Schmarda's species.
A fragment of a tube about 2.5 mm.
in diameter is of especial interest in having a tough, horn-colored, semitransparent, chitinous lining; the calcareous covering is thick, its surface nearly smooth, without markings of any kind, even lines of growth.
The animal, about 20 mm.
in length, is destitute of an operculum, a very small protuberance on outside of the base of one of the branchial lobes showing point of attachment.
The branchial lobes small, stem-like; the branchiae (16 on each side) much curled and twisted in preservation are arranged in a semicircle.
Thoracic membrane well developed, forms a deep rolling collar, apparently 3-lobed (mutilated), extends backward as a free lateral border to the 5th fascicle of seta\; no posterior border.
Seven (7) fascicle of seta?
and six (6) tori on thorax; the latter in rseparate rectangular membranous areas successively increasing in :*>ize.
Setse numerous, very long and slender, none showing broadened conspicuously serrate ends.
Uncini much striated, approaching Protula in form, but with coarser teeth (about 16 in largest), the last moderately long and square-cut.
The conspicuously developed chitinous lining of this tube is remarkable.
The character of the animal agree closely with S. longiseta, with the exception of the small protuberance noted on the base of one of the branchial lobes.
This may possibly be an abnormality and not the point of attachment of a lost operculum.
"l assimilis (Mcintosh, as Placostegus) .
This species is recorded by Mcintosh from off Bermuda, in 435 fathoms.
The tube is glassy, ornamented wuth a dorsal, or median, and two Ilateral ridges, which terminate at the aperture in tooth-like projections.
The characteristic operculum ought to be readily recognized.
It is described, in the type, as concave, of a dull yellowish color with brown rim; a second specimen has an additional upper part, like an inverted cone.
The peculiarities of the collar described as made up of a number of unequal ribbon-like processes or lobes, are possibly due to injury.
The rectangular form of the thoracic uncini, with numerous teeth above one long, sharp, terminal one, seems the only character showing any affinity to the genus Placostegus (type, P. tridentatus) .
The thoracic setse are very slender and simple.
The Placostegus incomptus Ehlers, 1887, from off Cuba, in 101 to 129 fathoms, has strong affinity to the genus Plagostegopsis Saint-Joseph, 1894.
Eucarphus serratus sp.
now Branchial lobes not free, the branchiae arranged in a semicircle; there are twelve about equal ones in each, with long delicate ends and long pinnae; a rudimentary operculum opposite the fully developed one, which has two chitinous cups one above the other, the lower with numerous radii and deeply pointed margin, very unlike the shallow broadly scalloped margin found in that of Eucarphus lunulifera Claparede, 1870, the upper one edged with thirteen stout, rather long, erect spines broadly rounded on the end, curved beneath on either side, forming a small angular lateral point; no outer, inner, nor basal processes or spinelets.
Collar very deep and full.
Seta?
similar to those found in Hydroides and Eupomatus, with stout manubrium having two large tooth-like spines on exposed end at the base of the very delicate, abruptly tapered terminal portion, not broadened into a blade.
Six fascicles of seta?
and six tori on thorax.
The setse with long gracefully tapered ends; the uncini somewhat triangular in outline, the base much prolonged and tapered beneath the teeth, which number about seven, are of about equal size, rather long, pointed and appressed, in front view appearing broad and delicately serrate in a single series; on the abdomen becoming smaller and thicker with more numerous sharper teeth, eight or nine in the largest, the last broader than the others.
Abdominal setse flaring, with coarsely serrate edge, elongated on one side with a delicate (scarcely discernible) filamentose end; needle-like along caudal region.
Only one specimen in an irregular good sized tube roughened only by unequal irregular lines of growth.
This may prove to be the Eucarphus dirampha Morch , 1863, from St. Thomas, W. I.
32 That is described as having from 13-16 spines on the operculum,, which are figured as having bulbous bases not at all like the simple taper of the Bermuda species.
The tube is given as slightly tortuous, loosely agglomerate, with unequal lines of growth; 3 mm.
in diameter.
Another related species (E. benzoni Morch, 1863) is recorded from Bahia, Brazil.
This builds left-handed, solitary, very solid, obsoletely nodulose spirorbiform tubes attached to Purpura and Dolium.
Hydroides bispinosa sp.
nov. Two specimens differ from typical Hydroides in having the edge of the lower cup of the operculum, with broad, shallow scallops, not deep narrow points; the upper cup has about 9 strongly curved, tapered spines somewhat angular on the outer side with a single small pointed process or spinelet on each side just below the angle and a long spikelike spinule on inner base.
Rudimentary operculum in opposite lobe.
Branchiae eight on each side; long, rather stout, with very long terminal filament.
Thoracic membrane but little (comparatively)' developed, with moderately deep collar.
Seta?
in collar fascicle with two very prominent striated spines at base of abruptly tapered ends ; in the following six fascicles long tapered blades.
Uncini noticeable in being triangular, broad at base, with few, about equal, very sharply pointed, much curved, well separated, teeth, 5 or 6 on those of thorax and 3 or 4 on abdomen.
Abdominal setae in fascicles of seven, flaring without elongation, the edge coarsely dentate, one end tooth larger than the others and curved in hook-shape; similar to the setae figured by Marenzeller as Hydroides multispinosa ; additional long stiff hairlike ones along caudal region.
Tubes much roughened by irregular growth lines crossing two large dorsal carinae, the shallow central area extending forward at the aperture in a broadly rounded projection; attached in irregular flat coils in masses or groups, often much eroded.
Hydroides parvus (Treadwell 1901, as Eupomatus).
Numerous rough tubes of good size, variously curved and often twisted over each other, are attached their entire length to the exposed surface of valves of Placuanimia rudis, the interior of the aperture of Livona pica and other hosts found at Bermuda.
They are rounded, of nearly uniform diameter, with two more or less clearly defined dorsal carinae, with here and there a faintly indicated median thread; no transverse markings other than irregular ones of growth which roughen the entire surface.
The species was recorded by Treadwell from the shores of Porto Rico attached to Bryozoans.
The Bermuda specimens are of larger size, agreeing well with Treadwell's description, with the exception of the form of the abdominal seta?.
The long acicular ones described by him occur only on the caudal region; those of the characteristic Hydroidcs form with striated, flaring, conspicuously serrate ends are present on the other abdominal segments.
The characteristic basket-like operculum readily distinguishes the species, in some instances two fully developed ones occur.
It is formed of two chitinous light yellow cups, fitted one above the other, on a long, slender, rather stiff peduncle.
The lower is edged with 25 or 30 deep points and the upper has nine strongly curved fang-like spines with three conspicuous outer processes (two pointed lateral and one blunt, more or less elongated, median) situated at the point of greatest curvature; a little above the middle; at the inner base of each fang is a short, erect, blunt process or spinule; in every instance these fangs have their points in contact forming a very pretty basket -like end to the operculum.
There is great variability in the size of the blunt median process, which is sometimes low and broadly rounded and sometimes much elongated and truncated.
The animals are long (50 mm.)
slender rounded, the branchiae about 4 mm.
The collar setse, characteristic of the group, are horn-colored with stout shaft or manubrium with two, sometimes three, conspicuous tooth-like spines at the base of long tapered ends ; other thoracic setae long and narrow regularly tapered.
Uncini much striated with a few (7) strongly curved pointed teeth in profile but showing irregular series when the rather broad exposed surface is in view.
Abdominal setse with flaring striated coarsely serrate ends; hair-like along caudal region.
Eupomatus elegantulus sp.
nov.
The species is readily identified by its large operculum (2^ mm.
in diameter).
The lower cup edged with 30 or 40 deep narrow points, the upper with 13 very long, very slender, tapered, regularly curved, spreading, simple spines without outer, lateral, or inner spinelets except a long slender much curved spinule at the inner base of each, their points in contact forming a basket-like center.
Entire length of body about 20 mm.
Branchial lobes simple, short, the branchiae in a semicircle (16 or 18 on each).
Thoracic membrane badly mutilated but showing a well-developed collar and free lateral and posterior border.
Seven (7) fascicles of setae and six (6) tori in oblique series on thorax.
The collar setae with two (2) conspicuous spines at base of moderately long tapered end ; other setae long, very slender with capillary tips.
Uncini triangular in outline, the base protruding forming a narrow end beneath the six (6) coarse teeth, which successively increase in size.
Tubes unattached, yellowish, of good size, gradually tapered, rounded, and somewhat contorted, the surface roughed by numerous conspicuous irregular growth lines crossed on one side hy three wellseparated rather delicate longitudinal often lamellar-like lines.
Three similar species have been recorded from the West Indian fauna.
Eupomatus sanetoe~crucis Morch, 1863 (as Eucarphus), from the Island of St. Croix is described and figured as having a minute spinelet on the outer (?)
surface of each spine of the upper cup of the operculum at about the middle, thus if correct (they usually occur on the inner surface) representing a connecting link between typical Hydroides with two or more spinelets and typical Eupomatus destitute of them.
Eupomatus spongicolus Benedict.
1886 (as Hydroides), from Gulf of Mexico in sponges from 26 fathoms, has numerous (14-18) simple long slender curved spines with long basal inner spinules on upper cup of the operculum and about 65 narrow deep points on edge of lower one.
Eupomatus Floridanus nom.
nov. for E. uncinatus Ehlers, 1887 (non Philippi, 1844), from 7 fathoms off Cape Dear Rio, Florida, has 11 very long, much curved spines with inner basal spinule on upper cup and about 30 deep points on edge of lower one.
This does not agree with the operculum of E. uncinatus from the Mediterranean (a fact mentioned by Ehlers).
From mass of 2 or 300 tubes in Yale Museum, a number of dried animals were taken showing the opercula and collar setae in good condition.
There are 9 or 10 spines on the upper cup which are stiff nearly straight, being curved only near the tip and so abruptly as to appear angulated on the outer surface, the inner basal spinule inconspicuous wart -like; they are very like the figure given by St.-Joseph, 1906.
On the American coast the Eupomatus dianthus (Verrill) Bush as figured by Benedict, 1886 (as Hydroides), is a closely related species.
Jomatostegus brachysoma Schmarda.
One beautifully preserved animal has been received from the Island of Dominica, W. I., from Mr. A. H. Verrill.
Entire length 45 mm.
; operculum 15 mm.
of which 5 mm.
belongs to its homy end; thorax, about 5 mm.
The very large operculum arises abruptly without a peduncle from the base of one of the branchial lobes.
It is cornucopia shaped with very oblique end and very conspicuous thin membranous side appendages, gradually increasing in width from the base to the free rounded end lobe.
There are three semitransparent horn-colored somewhat saucer-shaped plates conspicuously serrate on edge and about equal in size, the lowest closely affixed to the end of the operculum.
From this, a little to one side of center, a large rounded hollow column arises, made up of four parts or sections successively decreasing slightly in size, with concave sides and flaring top and bottom, each of which is encircled by a series of elongated spines, longest above; at the base of the lowest one no spines are developed.
At the joining of the sections there are therefore two series of spines between which a large saucer-shape plate rests; in this specimen, the third joint is destitute of a plate and some of the spines at the apex have been torn away.
Branchial lobes elongated, free, slightly spiral, plume-like, the slender tapered rachis, with a thick, broad or deep, striated, web-like membrane on each side, is strongly curved at the end causing the sides to be unequal.
The moderately long, much curled, stout branchiae (about 50) arise on the outer side only.
Collar conspicuous, entire, varying in depth, a broad, shallow emargination on each side forming a comparatively narrow, deep, angular median marginal lobe having a noticeable seam-like median depression; the large lateral flaps end on a line with the first torus without forming any lateral nor posterior free border.
The thorax, however, conspicuously defined, the seven fascicles of setse in very oblique series; the toii reaching across body nearly in contact along the median line; each is situated in the posterior edge of a separate overlapping membrane which forms a free, broadly rounded, outer end with pointed fluke-like side lobes; only on the first do both of them show, and on the sixth or last the posterior one is elongated, extending across the body to the opposite side in a scarcely discernible free border.
Collar fascicle small, the superior setse very slender, geniculate and roughened by minute hair-like spines at base of narrow regularly tapered blade approaching the form characteristic of the genus Spirobranchus; inferior setse capillary.
Other thoracic fascicles large with numerous rather stiff seta 3 ; the shortest, capillary; median with darker rounded elongated blades and short tips; the longest with short tapered ends.
Uncini like Spirobranchus with curved pointed teeth (8 in largest abdominal one) above a more prominent truncated terminal tooth (not twisted).
Abdominal seta?
comparatively small, slender, tapered, often scarcelydiscernible, just pricking through the integument.
Pomatosteyus stellata (Abildgaard, 1789) was carefully described by Ehlers, 1887. from a specimen from off Florida in 13 fathoms.
It has a similar one-lobed collar but smaller operculum and a more elongated body of 140 segments.
Benedict , 1886, also described and figured the same species from several specimens from Jamaica and Curacao and Treadwell recorded it from Porto Rico.
The P. macrasoma Schmarda, 1861, is distinguished by its 2-lobed collar (which possibly may have been mutilated) and more elongated form with comparatively small operculum.
The P. brachysoma is relatively short of 100 segments with a very large operculum plashed with chocolate brown, the branchise and pinnae banded with the same color.
Benedict, 1886, and Ehlers, 1887, record Spirobranchus giganteus (Pallas) Morch, S. tricornis (Morch) Ehlers, S. pseudoincrassatus Bush, 1905 (for incrassatus Benedict, 1886, non Kroyer).
and S. dendropoma Morch, 1863, from off Florida and the West Indies.
Other serpulids recorded from this region and Bermuda are Crucigera Websteri Benedict, 1886, Hyalopomatus Langerhansi Ehlers, 1887 (which is not a true Hyalopomatus), Cymospira (?)
polycera Schmarda, 1861, Paravermilia annnlata (Schmarda, 1861) Bush, 1907, not Yermilia annulata Ehlers, 1887 = Paravermilia Ehlersiana n. n., Paravermilia Bermudensis Bush, 1905 and 1907, P. amblia Bush, 1907, P. intermedia Bush, 1907, Pseudovermilia occidental i* (Mcintosh, 1885) Bush, 1907, P. pileum Bush, 1907, Spirorbis formosus Bush, 1905, Spirorbis mutabilis Bush, 1905, and Rhodopsis pusillus Bush, 1905.
Bibliography.
ArGENER.
H. — Bulletin, Museum Comparative Zoology, Vol.
XLIII, 1906.
Benedict, J. E. — Proceedings, United States National Museum, Vol.
IX, 1S8G.
Bush, K. J.
— Harriman Alaska Expedition, Vol.
XII, 1905.
American Journal Science.
Vol.
XXIII, January and February, 1907.
Caulery, M. and Mesnil, F. — Bulletin scientif.
de la France et de la Belgique, Vol.
XXX, 1897.
Ehlers, E. — Memoirs, Museum Comparative Zoology, Vol.
XV, 1887.
Marion F., and Bobretzky, N. — Annales des Science Naturelle, Vol.
6, 1875.
McIntosh, W. C— Challenger Voyage, Vol.
XII, 1885.
Morch, A. L.— Naturhist.
Tidsskrift, Vol.
I, 1863.
Schmarda, L. K— Neue Wirbellose Thiere, Vol.
II, 1861.
Treadwell, A. L— Bulletin, U. S. Fish Commission, Vol.
II (for 1900) 1901.
Explanation of Plate XXXVI.
Fie.
1.
— Paravermilia amblia Bush.
Side view of operculum; a, abdominal seta; b, thoracic seta.
Fig.
2.
— Pseudovermilia occidentalis (Mcintosh) Bush.
Front and back views of operculum; a, collar seta; b, seta from 2d segment.
Fig.
3.
— Spirorbis mendosus n. n. for S. cornu-arietis Marion and Bobretzki, 1875, non Philippi, 1844 + Caullery and Mesnil, 1897.
Side view of calcareous plate of operculum.
1 1 Figures 3, 4, and 6 are from specimens described by the author in 1905. from Beirut, Syria, page 288.
Fig.
4.
— Spirorbis serratus sp.
nov. Two calcareous plates of operculum; upper one tilted to show posterior basal serrations ; lower separate shield-shaped frontal plate.
Fig.
5.
— Spirorbis formosus Bush.
Side view of operculum with two complete calcareous cylinders.
Fig.
6.
— Spirirbis nudus sp.
nov. Side view of operculum.
Fig.
7.
— Spirorbis mutabilis Bush.
Side view of animal taken from tube and stained to show position of eggs (e), protozoans, etc., cover the operculum; «, back view of an operculum filled with eggs; b, front view of another operculum, the calcareous plate is dislodged; c, views of another operculum; d, back and side views of collar seta.
Fig.
8.
— Paravermilia bermudensis Bush.
Side view of operculum of type, the tip broken off; a, abdominal seta; b, edge of thoracic uncinus; c, collar seta.
Fig.
9.
— Paravermilia intermedia Bush.
Side view of operculum; a, abdominal seta; b, edge of thoracic uncinus; c, back view of seta from 2d segment.
All the figures are camera-lucida drawings by the author.
A No.
3 objective was used for the opercula, with the exception of fig.
1, where an inch objective was used.
No.
7 objective was used for the setse.
LAND MOLLUSCA OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE.
BY H. A. PILSBRY.
The land .shells listed below were collected by Dr. A. P. Brown during a visit to the Canal Zone in April of this year.
Twenty-two species were taken, but this is probably not half of the fauna of the Zone, since other interests left but little time for collecting snails, and the condition — dense jungle with only small expostires of calcareous rock — made collecting rather slow work.
Notes on a few species from other sources are appended.
Prof, von Martens has reported 20 species of land shells from Panama, on the authority of various authors.
The following species from his list are additional to those taken by Dr. Brown: Aperostoma giganteum.
Drymaus panamensis.
Helicina amcena.
Subulinn octona.
Euglandina sowerbyan .
Leptinaria inter str iota .
DrymcBUS bugabejisis. "
MelanieUa" fimbriata.
Drymaus alter )tans.
HELICID^}.
Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) otis orthorhinus Pils.
Tabernillo.
Several other races of P. otis, and P. uncigcra are found on the Isthmus.
See below.
Tb.ysanopb.ora conspurcatella (Morel.).
Las Cascades.
The specimens are somewhat larger than the typical form from Mexico.
Some shells of practically typical T. conspurcatella are in the collection of the Academy under the name Helix panamensis Perez.
So far as I can learn no description under this name has been published.
They are from the Morelet collection.
Tbysanophora canalis Kls.
Las Cascades.
ACHATINID^.
Leptinaria lamellate concentrica Reeve.
Tabernillo.
Leptinaria filocostata (Strebel) (?).
Tabernillo ; Las Cascades.
Leptinaria sp.
undet.
Las Cascades.
Leptinaria panamensis Pils.
Tabernillo.
Opeas beckianum (Pfr.).
Tabernillo.
Opeas pumilum (Pi'r.).
O. goodalli Mill, not Fe"r. Las Cascades.
Opeas panamense Pils., collected at Panama by Prof. C. B. Adams,.
was probably taken near the city of that name, where Adams collected marine mollusks extensively.
BULIMULID^].
Bulimulus unicolor (Sowb.).
Las Cascades.
Drymaeus semimaculatus Pils.
Tabernillo.
DrymaRUS near josephus Ang.
Tabernillo.
Some other species of Drymceus are known from the islands in thebay of Panama.
Oxystyla princeps (Brod.).
Taberoillo.
Auris distorta panamensis Pils.
Between Tabernillo and San Pablo.
OLEACINID^.
Euglandina cumingi (Beck).
Tabernillo.
Euglandina probably striata (Mull.)
Tabernillo.
Fragments.
Salasiella browni Pils.
Tabernillo ; Las Cascades.
SUCCINEIDffi.
Succinea recisa Morel.
(?).
Las Cascades.
Also reported by other authors.
ZONITTD^3.
Guppya gundlachi (Pfr.).
Tabernillo.
Guppya browni Pils.
Between Tabernillo and San Pablo.
Ammoniceras n. sp.
near guildingi Bid.
Tabernillo.
Imperfect shells only.
PUPILLID^J.
Bifidaria servilis (Old.).
Some specimens of this species from the Morelet collection are in the museum of the Academy from Panama, collected by Paz, under the name "P. pazensis Perez."
It is probably Pupa pazi Hidalgo Journ.
de Conchyl., 1875, p. 129.
Von Martens reports P. pettucida in which he includes servilis, from Panama, HELICINID^J.
Helicina funcki Pfr.
Tabernillo.
Helicina lirata Pfr.
Tabernillo, abundant.
Notes on New or Imperfectly Known Species.
Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) otis (Sol.).
PL XXXVII, figs.
5, 6, 7.
Helix otis [Solander] in Skinner & Co.'s Catalogue of the Portland Museum, 1786, p. 38, lot No.
925, based solely on Favanne, La Conchvliologie, pi.
63, fig.
11.
Helix labyrinthus Chemnitz, Conchylien Cabinet, XI (1795), p. 271, pi.
208, fig.
2048 (copied from Favanne).
The typical form of this remarkable snail is figured.
It is distinguished by the strongly recurved peripheral and axial ends of the peristome and the spatulate shape of the aperture.
Alt.
21, diam.
51 mm.
Isthmus of Panama.
No more exact locality is known, but the form will probably be found in or near the Canal Zone.
Several more or less divergent races have been described from Panama and Colombia, the status of which remains to be determined.
A synopsis of these forms follows.
P. o. subplanata (Petit).
Caracolla subplannta Petit de la Saussaie, Revue Zoologique, Aout, 1843, p. 238 (Nouvelle Grenade) ; Magazin do Zoologie, 1843, Mollusques, pi.
68.
Smaller than P. otis, alt.
14, diam.
40 mm., reddish brown.
Aperture as in otis, the peristome retracted at both ends.
This Colombian form differs from typical P. otis by its diminished size, but is probably not separable from the small Panamic form called si pun cu lata.
P. o. sipunculata ( Forbes).
Helix labyrinthus variety sipunculata Forbes, P. Z. S., 1850 (March 26), p. 53, pi.
ix, figs.
4a, 4b (Panama).
Shell purple-brown, 35 mm.
in diameter, decidedly smaller than V. otis; aperture as in typical otis, the columellar and peripheral angles of the peristome strongly recurved.
This shell does not seem to differ very materially from the earlier subplanata Petit.
It is only provisionally admitted as a race.
The figure shows the umbilicus somewhat smaller, and the aperture not exactly similar.
It may, as Dr. Brown suggests to me, be a dwarfed form of otis owing to unfavorable station.
P. o. annulifera ('Pfr.'
Reeve).
Helix annulifera Pfeiffer, P. Z. S., 1851 (December 7, 1853), p. 260 (Panama) Reeve, Conchologia Ieonica, Helix, pi.
100, fig.
555 (May, 1852).
The shell is much smaller than P. otis, alt.
13, diam.
34 mm.
; deep chestnut colored with a broad white band at the acute keel.
The aperture is shaped as in P. otis; the peristome is retracted at both ends.
This race differs from sipunculala only in color, which may or may not be a constant racial character.
P. o. erecta (Mouss.).
Helix erecta Mousson, nialak.
Blatter, xxi, 1873, p. 3.
Pfeiffer, Novit.
Conch., Ill, p. 116, pi.
127, figs.
1-3 (Bogota).
Blackish-brown, identical with subplanata except for its smaller size and greater elevation, alt.
13, diam.
30 mm.
P. o. orthorhinus n subsp.
PI XXXVII.
fig*.
1, 2, 3.
4.
The shell is dark brown, often blackish at the keel, and differs from L. otis in having the inner end of the peristome less recurved into the umbilical cavity, and the outer end much less deeply channelled, scarcely or not recurved; the gutter above the keel and the upturned flange of the latter are less emphatic.
Alt.
19, diam.
42 nun.
; 5 whorls.
Types No.
101,308, A. N. S. P., from a small clearing between Tabernillo and San Pablo, on the new line of the Panama R. R., collected by Dr. Amos P. Brown, April, 1910.
The same form is in the collection of the Academy from Gorgona, also on the Panama R. R. One of the specimens from Gorgona has been figured in the Manual of Conchology, V, pi.
64, figs.
14-16.
A specimen somewhat abnormally elevated measures alt.
23.5, diam.
45 mm.
In connection with the preceding it may be well to consider the following South American species.
Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) plicata (Born).
Helix plicata Born, Testacea musei Ca-sarei Vindobonensis, 1780, p. 368 referring to Knorr, Vergniigen der Augen und des Gemiiths, 1771, pt.
V, pi.
26, fig.
5 (India occidentals ).
Caracolla hydiana Lea, Obs.
Genus Unio, ii, 1838, p. 98, pi.
23, fig.
73.
(Near Puerto Cabello [Venezuela].)
This species is well distinguished from P. otis by its more open aperture and smaller basal teeth, as pointed out in the Manual of Conchology.
Some specimens in the series before me agree closely with the figure referred to by Porn, others with Lea's figure.
It is apparently an abundant snail around Puerto Cabello, Venezuela, found also at Chorini and Caraccas, and one specimen received from Deshayes is labelled Carthagena, X. G. There is no trustworthy record of plicata from Panama.
I cannot agree with Prof, von Martens that plicata and hydiana (hydeana Martens) are distinct species.
A careful stud}' of numerous specimens shows that they are identical.
A very small race, alt.
11.5, diam.
31 mm., from Marmato, Colombia, has been figured in the Manual of Conchology V, p. .164, pi.
63, figs.
6.
7, 8.
It may be called Pleurodonte plicata marmatensis.
506 [Aug., Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) uncigera (Petit).
Fig.
l. Caracolla uncigera Petit, Mag.
de Zool., 1838, pi.
113.
Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) tenaculum Dall, Smiths.
Misc.
Coll., Vol.
52, part 3, p. 361, pi.
37, figs.
5, 6, 10, 11.
This species is well distinguished by the hook within the basal lip, projecting between two basal plicae, though really arising from the inner part of the outer plica.
Petit's very good figure of this structure is copied in my fig.
1.
A whitish band revolves above, another below the peripheral keel, which is dark.
Diam.
27-30 mm.
Isthmus of Panama (Pavagean, type of uncigera); near the Atrato River, Sierra Darien (Heighway, type of tenaculum).
Fig.
1.
— P. uncigera (after Petit).
Fig.
2.
— P. u. chiriquensis.
Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) uncigera chiriquensis n. subsp.
Fig.
2.
Helix uncigera Pilsbrv, Manual of Conehology, V, p. 164, pi.
42, figs.
23, 25, 25, 26.
Not of Petit.
The shell resembles uncigera in shape and color, and in the form of the aperture.
There are two teeth within the basal lip, the inner one small, tubercular, sometimes nearly obsolete; outer tooth entering pliciform, double, consisting of an inner fold terminating in a hook or vertical lamina, and an outer fold superposed upon the other, not reaching so far forward.
Alt.
12, diam.
27.5 mm. "
12. "
28 " 12, " 30 Chiriqui, Isthmus of Panama (McNeil exped.).
Type No.
5612, A. N. S. P. Also taken by Dr. W. Xewcomb on the Isthmus, exact place not stated.
In this form the hook does not stand free from the entering lamina, as it does in uncigera.
The lamina overrides the fold bearing the hook, and does not continue to or upon the peristome.
In several 1910.]
507 specimens the hook is not free but united by a thin lamina with the lip.
This is the form which I described and figured as uncigera in the Manual of Conchology, Vol.
V. Thysanophora canalis n. sp.
Fig.
3.
The shell is umbilicate the width of umbilicus contained 4^ times in the diameter of the shell, which is somewhat depressed with conic spire and obtuse summit; thin: dull brown.
Surface lusterless, finely striate, bearing rather closely spaced retractive delicate cuticular laminae, much more oblique than the growth-lines, usually in large part lost or wholly wanting by wear.
Whorls 4f, strongly convex, separated by deep sutures, the last rounded peripherally and beneath.
Aperture much larger than the umbilicus, oblique, rotundlunar.
Peristome simple, forming about three-fourths of a circle.
Alt.
3.8, diam.
4.6 mm.
Fig.
3.
— Thysanophora canalis.
Las Cascades, on the Panama Railroad, Canal Zone.
Types No.
101,329, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, April, 1910.
This species differs from P. conspurcalella by its much more elevated spire and smaller umbilicus.
The same species is in the collection of the Academy from Cariaca, Venezuela, collected by F. R. Cocking.
These specimens are of a pale yellowish color and slightly smaller size.
Auris distorta panamensis n. *p. PI.
XXXVII, Figs.
8, 9.
This snail is closely related to A. d. bisuturalis Pils.
from San Jose de Cucuta, Colombia, with which it agrees in size and general fusiform shape, in having a distinct narrow margin below the suture on the last whorl, and in style of markings.
The shell, in the freshest examples, is reddish with rather widely separated, longitudinal, protractive dark streaks.
It differs from A. d. bisuluralis by having the last whorl more compressed and tapering basally, with several short spiral furrows behind the lip, above the basal ridge; the aperture is 508 [Aug., narrower and distinctly retracted at the base, the outer lip, in profile, curving backward there, while in bisuturalis it is nearly straight.
Length 41 , diam.
18.5, length aperture 22.5 mm. "
43.5, " 18 , " " 25 " whorls 5|. "
41.5, " 18 , "• •' 23.6 " " 5f.
•' 42.5, " 18 , " " 23.3 " " 5J.
Between Tabernillo and San Pablo.
Types No.
101.314, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown.
This is further northwest than any Auris has been found hitherto.
Leptinaria panamensis n. sp.
Fig.
4.
The shell is narrowly perforate, turrite-conic, thin, corneous, translucent, glossy, and smooth except for very faint growth-lines.
Whorls 6£, moderately convex.
Aperture ovate, subvertical.
its length contained 2f times in that of the shell.
Outer lip thin, arching forward somewhat above the middle.
Columellar margin reflexed, tapering downward, armed below the middle with a strong oblique lamella.
Length 8, diam.
3.3, length of aperture 3 mm.
Between San Pablo and Tabernillo, on the newline of the Panama Railroad.
Types No.
101,320, A. N. S. P. This species is closely related to L. mexicana Pfr., but differs by its smooth surface.
Fig.
4.
— L. pan amensis.
Salasiella browni n. sp.
Fig.
5.
The shell is subcylindric, the upper third tapering, thin, pale yellowish, polished, irregularly sculptured with very strongly arcuate growth wrinkles.
The spire tapers slightly to the obtuse apex.
Whorls oh, strongly convex, joined by a deep suture.
Aperture very narrow in the upper half.
Outer lip thin, arching very strongly forward in the middle.
Columella slightly concave, truncate as usual.
Length 10.2, diam.
4, length of aperture 6 mm.
Las Cascades.
Types No.
101,325, A. N. S. P. Also taken between Tabernillo and San Pablo.
The largest shell, a dead one from the last locality, measures: Length 12, diam.
4.5, aperture 7.2 mm.
; whorls 5^.
Named for Dr. Amos Brown, who Fi 5 g browi collected the specimens.
'■in .
1910.]
509 Guppya browni n. sp.
Fig.
6.
The shell is perforate, trochiform, distinctly angular at the periphery, thin, yellowish-corneous, glossy, lightly marked with growth-lines.
The outlines of the spire are nearly straight.
Whorls 6^, moderately convex, the last convex beneath, impressed around the perforation, which is half covered by the expanded columellar lip.
Aperture somewhat lunate; peristome simple.
Alt.
5.3, diam.
6.5 mm.
Between Tabernillo and San Pablo, on the new line of the Panama Railway.
Type No.
101,319, A. N. S. P. This species is related to G. selenkai Pfr.
but differs by being much larger, less glossy, with the base less convex and the peripheral angle far weaker.
It is larger than any of the trochiform species known to me.
Fig.
6.— (?.
browni.
Explanation of Plate XXXVII.
Figs.
1—4.
— Pleurodonte otis orthorhinus n. subsp.
Figs.
5-7.
— Pleurodonte otis (Solander).
Typical form.
Figs.
8, 9.
— Ailris sinuata panamensis n. subsp.
THE MOLLUSCA OF MANDEVILLE, JAMAICA, AND ITS ENVIRONS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND AMOS P. BROWN.
The mollusks enumerated below were collected by one of us (Dr. Brown) during two visits to Jamaica, in February-March and May of this year; on the former occasion with assistance from Mr. Stewardson Brown.
The material has been studied by both authors.
While the non-marine molluscan fauna of Jamaica might be considered well known, since most of the species have been described, yet it is really most imperfectly known.
Very few forms have been examined anatomically; almost nothing has been observed of the relations of the many specialized forms to their environments; a large proportion of the species has not been figured, and many are .scarcely recognizably described.
Finally, our knowledge of the distribution of species is extremely imperfect.
The Mandeville list may therefore prove useful, both as the most nearly complete fauna published for any Jamaican locality, and because definite localities 4ire supplied for a large number of species hitherto known from no more exact habitat than "Jamaica."
The "Contributions to Conchology" of Professor C. B. Adams was for the time a work of distinguished excellence; but it has a very serious defect in the omission of localities.
Almost all of the species of Pfeiffer, Gray and Sowerby were also described as from Jamaica, without nearer localization.
A list published b}' C. P. Gloyne 1 supplies localities for some species, but often only the Parish is mentioned.
Mr. J.
B. Henderson.
Jr., 2 has given a more extended list (248 species) in which the localities are carefully noted.
Out of 55 species listed 1 >y him from " Mandeville," 1 7 were not found in our material.
3 Adding 1 Journal de Conchyliologie, XX, 1872, p. 26; XXIII, p. 115.
Nautilus, VIII.
LS94, pp.
1, 19, 31.
See also C. T. Simpson, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
XVII, 1894, pp.
423-440, where several new forms are described.
Other new species of Urocoptida>, Achatinidw and Oleacinidcp from Mr. Henderson's collection have been described in the Manual of Conchology.
?
These Mandeville species which we did not obtain are: Varicella ligata, Sagda cookiana, S. epistylioides, S. arboreoides, Pleurodonte ja?naicensis cornea, Cepolis subconica, Urocoptis inornata, Geomelania fords, Aperostoma subrugosum , A. ru pisfontis, A. crassum, Tudora proximo, Colobostylus tectilabris, C. banksianus, Hclicina jamaicensis.
Probably Messrs. Henderson and Simpson listed all -species collected within a radius of some miles as from Mandeville.
1910.]
511 them to the 110 species enumerated below gives a total of 127 species of land snails for Mandeville and its environs.
To this number, considerable additions may yet be made, chiefly among the very small species.
The tertiary limestones underly the region about Mandeville, exposed in nearly every roadside cut and in many small borrow-pits along the post-roads, and generally cropping out on every hill-top.
On the slopes of the steeper hills the limestone often stands up in bold cliffs, especially on the higher hills of the northwest and west of the town, KendaJFig.
1.
— Sketch map of Mandeville and environs.
in the ridges towards the western border of the Parish of Manchester.
The elevations run from about 1000 feet above sea level at Williamsfield to 2060 at Mandeville and 2700 on the ridge overlooking the valley of St. Elizabeth Parish and Black River.
The entire country was evidently once covered with jungle or "bush" throughout, but in the more cultivated parts the ground has been cleared of woods except on the tops of the stony hills.
There are no streams or other surface water in this part of Man33 Chester except what is collected in the cattle pools and drinking water cisterns, but the washing of the surface by torrential rains has had its effect in shaping the topography.
The rain water, however, soon passes underground, and these underground waters have honeycombed the limestones, forming numerous caves and pipes in the limestone and resulting in sinks and "cockpits," so that the entire surface is covered with cup-shaped valleys, more or less surrounded by hills, and is very uneven, a few acres of level ground being rarely found.
The hills are generally steep, in many places limestone cliffs of 20 to 50 feet high rising abruptly on their slopes ; the hill-tops very frequently show base rock in places.
On this account the hill-tops have often been left covered by jungle except where the wood was needed for fire-wood, etc.
; but even these are often cleared, especially on the lower ground towards William sfield and Porus, and to a less degree along the roads towards Kendal, so that only fruit trees or occasional shade trees remain.
Along the William sfield road, at Wesley Mount Church, and on the parish roads to the south in the direction of Porus to Sterridge's Place and beyond, as well as along the Newport road running out of Mandeville to the south, most of the hills have been cleared of trees and large patches of woods are not common, but a few bits of the original forest remain.
Such are the woods at Benin ore and at the King Edward Hotel and the woods opposite Cedar Hill.
The species obtained at Wesley Mount Church were from the roadside on the limestone sand and rock and at the base of the limestone walls.
These limestone walls are a feature of the region; they line the roads everywhere.
They are built from the stone gathered in the adjoining field, without plaster, and as the limestone weathers soon become the home of numerous species of snails.
Much of the roadside collecting is from the walls, especially after a rain, when the animals crawl out on the surface of the walls and may be gathered in quantities.
At Sturridge's the country has been completely denuded of trees and the small collection made there came entirely from the walls.
At Cedar Hill there are no trees, the collection was taken from a low limestone cut about ten feet high along the roadside.
The Bloomfield colony lives on a similar cut.
and a steep hillside rising above it, where some trees shade the road.
These conditions continue for about one-third of a mile.
Garrett's woods is a hill top covered with almost untouched virgin forest, but is only some five or six acres in extent.
The specimens from the Lower Santa Cruz road are from small roadside cuts, some in limestone and some in the red residual clay from its weathering, with occasional collections from the damp shady borrow pit holes and caves along the road.
Many specimens were gathered from the stone walls along this road.
There are not many places beyond Garrett's woods along this road "2 to 4 miles from Mandeville" where the woods touch the road, but a few were explored, generally caves and borrow pits; the ground rises in this direction to perhaps 2500 feet above sea level at four miles from Mandeville.
To the west and northwest of Mandeville there is more of the original forest remaining uncleared, and at Somerset there is considerably more forest than cleared land.
The ridge near Lincoln, the most western point explored in this region, rises to some 2,700 feet above sea level, and lies to the north of the road.
It overlooks the valley of the Black River and St. Elizabeth Parish, and from it may be seen the Santa Cruz mountains in the distance.
The hill-top is rocky with the honeycombed limestone in place, and rising in many chimneys and spires, forming a very favorable habitat for the species found, but the woods has been somewhat disturbed by cutting of firewood, though evidently never cleared.
Out the Kendal road, to the north of Mandeville, the ground is thoroughly cultivated and again few patches of original forest come down to the road.
The specimens were mostly obtained from stone walls and low roadside cuts in the limestone down to about 1,500 feet above sea level.
In a few places the forest touched the road and collections were made along the cuts at these places, but the woods were not explored.
The colony on the Somerset road, near the 2 mile post from Mandeville (about three miles from the town), was a patch of woods and a small quarry or borrow pit, on the north slope of a hill overlooking the valley of Williamsfield and Kenclal, and was at about the elevation of Mandeville.
From this point onward the parish road to Somerset is shaded by the trees of the portions of the original forest that are here quite extensive.
The hills are more abrupt and the cliffs rise in many places 50 to 100 feet or more.
At Somerset, about six miles from Mandeville, the woods are so nearly continuous that there is no bar to the free migration of the species from one to another, but still it is evident that there are a number of distinct colonies.
Collections were made from the roadside cuts and walls, in the stony pastures and woods, from the cliffs and from a dissected cave and a sink hole.
The woods and cliffs were principally explored, and under stones and in rock piles many specimens were taken alive.
The limestone in places wears into cylindrial more or less vertical holes of all sizes up to ten feet in diameter, and in these many dead shells are found.
At the bottom of a fissure in the limestone or under a cliff at the base is generally found a grave-yard of these shells, often several bushels in the space of a few feet.
Fresh shells are more uncommon.
As the woods are here all connected more or less, no attempt was made to keep the colonies separate, but from a study of these dead shells it would probably be easy to distinguish a number.
About twenty different hills were explored from the base to the top, besides the caves and sink noted above, and many specimens were taken from small exposures and stone piles in the cleared ground.
The elevation of the road at Somerset is about 2,200 feet above sea level, and the hills rise for 200 or 300 feet more in some cases.
HELICIDiE.
Cepolis (Dialeuca) nemoraloides (C. B.
Ad.).
Woods opp.
Cedar Hill; Lower Santa Cruz road, about 3 miles southwest of Mandeville.
Cepolis (Dialeuca) conspersula (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset.
Cepolis (Hemitrochus) graminicola(C. B.
Ad.).
Benmore, Mandeville ; roadsides about 3 miles north and east of Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Santa Cruz road, common all along the road; Somerset road; Somerset.
Pleurodonte bainbridgei (Pfr.).
Cedar Hill, woods near King Edward's Hotel, Garrett's woods, ridge near Lincoln, and at Somerset.
The pale variety pretiosa was not found.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos ('A.
D. Brown' Pils).
Kendal road, 3-3^ miles northwest of Mandeville; near Bloomfield; woods at Benmore Hotel and King Edward's Hotel, Mandeville; Cedar Hill ; Garrett's woods ; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles out ; Somerset road, 2 miles out; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
The form from Somerset is rather large, resembling figures 60, 62, 63, 64 of plate 26, Manual of Conchology, Y, though neither of those figures is wholly like the prevalent type.
4 The form from other localities mentioned is smaller and higher.
It has not been illustrated, though abundant and well known, but plate 26, fig.
59 of the Manual, Vol.
V, somewhat resembles it.
Helix 4 Figures 59, 63, 64 of plate 26 of the Manual, Vol V, do not represent P. nobilis C. B.
Ad., which Pilsbry had not correctly identified at the time that volume was written.
Figures 5, 59, 60, 62, 63, 64 of that plate are all forms of goniasmos, of which nannodonta A. D. B. is merely a form.
abnormis Pfr.
was apparently based on a pathologic individual of this small race.
The forms of P. acuta from this region will be considered in a later paper by one of us.
Pleurodonte acuta acuta (of which lamarckii Fer.
and acutissima Lam.
are absolute synonyms) is found near the coast, at Swift River, and in a less typical form around to Bowden.
Pleurodonte sinuata (Mailer).
Kendal road, 3^ miles north of, and Benmore and Bloomfield in Mandeville; woods at King Edward's Hotel and opposite Cedar Hill, Garrett's woods, Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln ; Somerset.
Found everywhere, in some abundance, living under stones and leaves, in the woods.
Pleurodonte anomala (Pfr.).
Found with P. sinuata, probably everywhere, but not taken at Bloomfield or Cedar Hill woods.
Pleurodonte picturata (C. B.
Ad.).
Kendal road, about oh miles northwest of Mandeville.
Only three bleached specimens of the small form, diam.
22 mm.
Pleurodonte cara (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset.
Pleurodonte peracutissima (Q.
B.
Ad.)
Bloomfield and Benmore, Mandeville; wood near King Edward's Hotel; Kendal road about 2 miles north of Mandeville, in stone walls; woods opposite Cedar Hill; Garrett's woods, Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset road; Somerset, abundant.
Pleurodonte (Dendrocochlis 6 ) aspera (Fe"r.).
Found at all the localities visited; very abundant everywhere even in the town.
Arboreal.
Pleurodonte (Eurycratera) jamaicensis (Gmel.).
Found at all the localities, but larger and more abundant westward of Mandeville, towards Somerset and Lincoln.
Terrestrial, living in holes in the rocks.
Zaphysema macmurrayi (C. B.
Ad.).
Bloomfield, Mandeville; Garrett's woods; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
5 Dendrocochlis n. subg.
for aspera and cognata.
the former type of the subgenus Zaphysema tunicata (C. B.
Ad.).
Woods opposite Cedar Hill, near Mandeville; Kendal road; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
This is Helix tumida Pfr.
not Gmelin.
Zaphysema tenerrima (C. B.
Ad.).
Woods opposite Cedar Hill; Somerset.
Proserpinula margaritella n. sp.
Wesley Mount Church, near Williamsfield.
Proserpinula infortunata (Bland).
Helix infortunata Bid., Annals and Lvc.
Xat.
Hist, of N. Y., VI, 1S54, p. 78; 1855, p. 149.
Woods opposite Cedar Hill, and at KinoEdward's Hotel; Somerset.
Bland in 1854 transferred this species from Proserpina to Helix on the ground that in it the internal partitions are not absorbed, as they are in the Proserpinidce.
In 1855 he stated, on the authority of the Hon.
Edward Chitty, that the animal "is the same as of Helix."
Albers (Die Heliceen, 1860, p. 77) instituted the new group Proserpinula which he Fig.
2.
Central and ranks as a subgenus of Sagda, placing in it the lateral teeth of P. S p ec [ es discoidea C. B.
Ad.
and opalina C. B.
Ad.
(= infortunata Bid.).
Tryon in Vol.
II of the Manual of Conchology, p. 201, considers Proserpinula a section of Zonites.
The radula of a decayed specimen we have examined was imperfect, only the central and lateral teeth being preserved.
These are of the type found in Thysanophora, Sagda and Zaphysema.
The central has a short, wide basal-plate, the mesocone projecting well beyond it, side cusps well developed.
The laterals (at least 11 on each side) are similar but asymmetrical by suppression of the entocone (Fig.
2).
P. infortunata is oviparous, the egg-capsules rather large, with calcareous shell.
Thysanophora turbiniformis (Pfr.).
Sterridge's place, 3 miles southeast of Mandeville; Lower Santa Cruz road; Somerset.
Thysanophora subpyramidalis (C. B.
Ad.).
Woods opposite Cedar Hill; Lower Santa Cruz road; ridge near Lincoln, Somerset.
Thysanophora depressa (C. B.
Ad.).
Benmore, Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Lower Santa Cruz road; Somerset road.
Thysanophora boothiana (Pfr.)
?.
Kendal road, 1 mile north of Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Sterridge's place; Lower Santa Cruz road; Somerset road; Somerset.
The identity of this shell with the Cuban T. boothiana is doubtful, but it is apparently what Adams so identified.
Thysanophora anthoniana (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset.
Thysanophora epistyliulum (C. B.
Ad.).
Woods at Benmore, Mandeville; woods opposite Cedar Hill; Somerset.
Thysanophora inconspicua(C. B.
Ad.).
Near Mandeville.
Thysanophora diminuta (C. B.
Ad.).
Near Mandeville ; ridge near Lincoln.
Thysanophora dioscoricola (C. B.
Ad.).
Near Mandeville.
Sagda jayana (C. B.
Ad.).
Kendal road, 3^ miles north of Mandeville.
Benmore and Bloomfield, Mandeville; woods at King Edward's Hotel; woods opposite Cedar Hill; Garrett's woods; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
The young shells at a certain stage are perforate.
The two internal lamellae were found constant in a large number opened.
It is an extremely abundant species.
Sagda grandis n. sp.
Somerset.
Sagda connectens (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset.
Sagda alveare (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset and along roadsides near Mandeville.
Sagda foremaniana (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset; ridge near Lincoln.
Sagda simplex n. sp.
Somerset.
Sagda hollandi (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset.
BULIMULID^J.
Drymaeus immaculatus (C. B.
Ad.).
Garrett's -woods; Somerset.
Oxystyla undata ^Brug.).
Benmore, Mandeville, from trees in the garden, two large specimens, probably imported from Trinidad.
It is not the well-known Jamaican form of Oxystyla.
ACHATINIDiE.
Opeas miora (Orb.).
Wesley Mount Church near Williamsfield ; Benmore, Mandeville.
Subulina octona (Brug.).
Benmore, Mandeville; Cedar Hill.
Leptinaria lamellata (P. and M.).
Benmore, Mandeville.
Leptinaria striosa abdita (Poey).
Benmore, Mandeville; Sterridge's place; Lower Santa Cruz road; Somerset road, 2 miles from Mandeville; Somerset.
Leptinaria robertsi Pils.
Cedar Hill; near Mandeville.
No exact locality was hitherto known.
UROCOPTIDJE.
Urocoptis ambigua (C. B.
Ad.).
Wesley Mount Church, near Williamsfield; Kendal road, 3 miles north of Mandeville; Benmore, Mandeville; King Edward's Hotel, woods opposite Cedar Hill, Garrett's woods, Lower Santa Cruz road, near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
Abundant throughout the region, on stone walls and stone piles in open woods, etc.
TJrocoptis rosea (Pfr.).
Benmore, Mandeville.
Bracbypodella gracilis (Wood).
Abundant around Mandeville, north and west, on walls along the roadsides; Kendal road, 3^ miles north of Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset, on cliffs.
Spirostemma dunkeri (Pfr.).
Ridge near Lincoln, on rocks.
Spirostemma tenera (C. B.
Ad.).
Near Mandeville.
Spirostemma mandevillensis n. sp.
Somerset road, 2 miles from Mandeville.
Anoma splendens ('Mke.'
Pfr.).
Bloomfield, Mandeville; Somerset.
Anoma splendens citrina (C. B.
Ad.).
Williamsfield road, 2 miles south of William sfield; Garrett's woods; near Mandeville; Somerset road; Somerset.
Anoma alboanfractus paivana (Pfr.).
Somerset.
Microceramus gossei (Pfr.).
Wesley Mount Church, 1 mile south of Williamsfield; Benmore, Mandeville; Sterridge's place, 3 miles southeast of Mandeville; Santa Cruz road; Somerset.
Everywhere abundant along roadsides and walls.
OLEACINIDiE.
Varicella philippiana elegans (C. B.
Ad.).
Garrett's woods, near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
Varicella venusta (Pfr.).
Somerset.
Varicella procera (C. B.
Ad.).
Ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
Varicella mandevillensis Pils.
Somerset road, 2 miles northwest of Mandeville; Sterridge's place, about 3 miles southeast of Mandeville ; also from roadsides north and east of Mandeville.
Varicella blandiana (C. B.
Ad.).
Benmore, Mandeville; woods at King Edward's Hotel; Santa Cruz road, about 3 miles southwest of Mandeville; Somerset.
Varicella proxima (C. B.
Ad.).
Woods opposite Cedar Hill.
Varicella dissimilis Pils.
Somerset.
Varicella near clappi Pils.
Bloomfield, Mandeville.
A single imperfect specimen.
Varicella cochlidinm Pils.
Wesley Mount Church, near Williamsfield, and along the road toward Mandeville.
Varicella rapax n. sp.
Somerset.
Varicella similaris sloaneana Pils, Kendal road, 3 miles north of Mandeville.
Spiraxis mirabilis C. B.
Ad.
Somerset.
Spiraxis procerus (C. B.
Ad.).
Benmore, Mandeville.
Spiraxis parallelus Pils.
Somerset; woods at King Edward's Hotel, near Mandeville.
Spiraxis laeviusculus C. B.
Ad.
Near Mandeville.
Spiraxis perplexus C. B.
Ad.
Near Mandeville; Somerset.
Spiraxis terebella C. B.
Ad.
Near Mandeville.
Pseudosubulina problematica Pils.
Near Mandeville.
ZONITID^.
Guppya gundlachi (Pi'r.).
Near Mandeville.
The generic synonyms are as follows: Guppya Morch, Joum.
de Conchyl, XV, 1867, p. 256, for Conulus vaccus [vacans] Guppv.
Habroconus Fischer et Crosse, Miss.
Sci.
Mex., Moll.
(1878), I, pp.
154, 171.
Type Helix selenkai Pfr.
Ernstia Jousseaume, Mem.
Soc.
Zool.
France, II, 1889, p. 250, for Ernstia ernsti Jouss.
LIMACID^E.
Agriolimax sp.
undet.
A single shell not unlike A. agrestis was picked out of dirt collected near Mandeville.
STJCCINEIDiE.
Succinea latior C. B.
Ad.
Kendal road 3 miles from Mandeville; Wesley Mount Church; Benmore, Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Sterridge's place; Lower Santa Cruz road; Somerset.
It is found sparsely almost everywhere in the grass.
PUPILLID^J.
Bifidaria pellucida (Pfr.).
Near Mandeville.
Bifidaria servilis (Gld.).
Garrett's woods and elsewhere near Mandeville.
A form with the teeth weak, the upper palatal plica very minute, basal plica absent or excessively weak.
Bifidaria rhoadsi Pils.
Near Mandeville.
New to Jamaica.
The specimens are smaller than the types from Miami, Florida, measuring, length 1.5, diam.
.85 mm.
Vertigo (Bothriopupa) tenuidens C. B.
Ad.
Around Mandeville and at Somerset.
This species differs from V. variolosa of Florida by its rather more robust contour and strong upper palatal plica.
Probably Bothriopupa will be removed from Vertigo on account of its long, entering parietal lamella; yet it does not seem to belong to Bifidaria.
VERONICELLIDiE.
A species of Veronicella about 25 or 30 mm.
long was seen under stones, but none were collected.
TRUNCATELLID^3.
Geomelania minor C. B.
Ad.
Wesley Mount Church, near William sfield; Benmore, Mandeville; Somerset road and Somerset.
Geomelania gracilis (C. B.
Ad.).
Wesley Mount Church, near William sfield; Bloomfield and Benmore, Mandeville; Somerset.
Geomelania elegans C. B.
Ad.
Near Mandeville.
Geomelania (Scalatella) pygmaea (C. B.
Ad.).
Neighborhood of Mandeville.
Geomelania (Scalatella) microglypta n. sp.
Near Mandeville.
CYCLOPHORIDiE.
Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) jamaicense (Sowerby).
Benmore, Mandeville; King Edward's Flotel, woods opposite Cedar Hill; Garrett's woods; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; two miles out the Somerset road; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
Found everywhere.
Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) varians (C. B.
Ad.).
King Edward's Hotel, woods opposite Cedar Hill, Garrett's woods, Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles west of Mandeville; 2 miles out the Somerset road; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
A single depressed, more widely umbilicate Ptychocochlis was found on the ridge near Lincoln.
It probably represents another species.
ERICIIDJB (CYCLOSTOMATIDiE;).
The Jamaican Cyclostomas differ from Ericia clcgans of Europe by the form of the muzzle, which is deeply bifid at the end, not flattened and disk-like clistally, as Fischer figures that of E. elegans.
In creeping the muzzle takes no part, and is not applied to the ground except occasionally for the purpose of feeling.
The foot is divided lengthwise by a median sulcus, only the two outer edges being in contact with the earth in crawling, which is effected by the passage of high narrow folds or waves from the tail forward alternately on the two sides, only one at a time on a side.
The wave lifts free from the support, as shown in fig.
3, so that there is no sliding motion of the sole against the ground.
Viewed from in front or behind the snail has an absurd appearance of striding along on stumpy legs.
These observations were made on Colobostylus jayanus rufilabris (Ad.)
and Tudora arrnata (Ad.)
5 .
<Lr Fig.
3.
— Colobostylus jayanus rufilabris (Ad.).
Fig.
4.
— Head of same, from above.
Colobostylus jayanus (C. B.
Ad.).
Roadside north of Alandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
Colobostylus jayanus rufilabris C. B.
Ad.
Figs.
3, 4.
Kendal road, 2 miles north of Mandeville, on stone walls; Benmore, Mandeville ; woods at King^Edward's Hotel; Somerset road, 2 miles northwest of Mandeville.
5 It may be of interest in this connection to quote Dr. Jousseaume's account of the walking of Ericia elegans.
The foot is divided by a median line or raphe.
"Pour avancer, Panimal glisse en avant l'une des moities artificielles de son pied et lorsqu'elle a depasse Pautre du quart, plus au moins, de son longueur, elle s'arrete, pendant que l'autre moitie sort de son immobility et s'avance a son tour, depasse sa congenere que se remet alors en mouvement.
Cette progression alternative se fait sans interruption ; elle est continue comme dans les autres modes.
Qu'on suppose un homme, les deux pieds dans un sac, avancant en glissant le pied droit, puis le pied gauche et ainsi de suite successivement et l'on aura une idee exacte de la progression d'un Cyclostome" (Bull.
Soc.
Zool.
France, Vol.
34, 1909, p. 113).
Lives in rather open places, as in the crevices of stone walls, and in the edges of woods.
The foot is bluish-gray, tentacles, rostrum and eyes black.
Colobostylus banksianus (Sowb.).
Somerset road, 2 miles west of Mandeville; Somerset.
Annularia fimbriatula (Sowb.).
Bloomfield and Benmore, Mandeville; King Edward's woods, woods opposite Cedar Hill and Garrett's woods near Mandeville; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles from Mandeville.
The living snail is very handsome.
The foot is flesh-pink, paler in front, shading to bright red behind in the region of the operculum; the whole necked with opaque white; dorsal surface (neck) and front edge almost white.
The tentacles are deep carmine, the rostrum grayish-fleshy with black spots and flecks, closer on the sides.
Adamsiella variabilis (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset.
Adamsiella ignilabris (C. B.
Ad).
Near Mandeville; Somerset; ridge near Lincoln.
Tudora fecunda (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset.
Chondropoma mordax (C. B.
Ad.).
Roadsides near Mandeville.
Lives in the woods.
It is very common near Mandeville but was not 'seen around Somerset.
A. Rhytidopoma fraterminor n. sp.
Wesley Mount Church, 1 mile south of Williamsfield.
HELICINID^].
Helicina neritella Lara.
Roadsides about 3 miles northeast of Mandeville; woods opposite Cedar Hill and Santa Cruz road near Mandeville; Somerset.
Abundant, living in the open.
Helicina jamaicensis Sowb.
Bloomfield, Santa Cruz road, and Somerset road, near Mandeville; Somerset.
Abundant.
Stoastoma pisum (C. B.
Ad.).
Benmore and Bloomfield, Mandeville; \ if //^\^n>>* Garrett's woods, crawling on stones; Lower Santa Cruz road, 3 miles from Mandeville ; The dentition of S. pisum (fig.
5) confirms the position of this genus in the Helicinidce.
The marginal teeth are simply hook-shaped Fig 5—5 visum.
an ^ vei T numerous.
The outer tooth of the middle field has no cusp.
Other characters are sufficiently shown by the figure.
Stoastoma gouldianum C. B.
Ad.
Near Mandeville.
Stoastoma (Fadyenia) grayanum (Chitty).
Near Mandeville.
Stoastoma (Petiti ) cumingianum (C. B.
Ad.).
Woods a\ King Edward's Hotel, 1 mile from Mandeville; Garrett's woods; Somerset.
Stoastoma (Petitia) fortuneanum (Chitty).
Near Mandeville.
Stoastoma (Metcalfia) chittyanum C. B.
Ad.
Near Mandeville.
Alcadia major Gray.
Somerset, very abundant.
Alcadia palliata (C. B.
Ad.).
Benmore, Mandeville; roadsides north and east of Mandeville; 2 or 3 miles out; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; Somerset road, 2 miles out ; also at Somerset, very abundant.
Alcadia albolabris (C. B.
Ad.).
Roadsides, 3 miles north of Mandeville, towards Williamsfield ; Cedar Hill, 1 mile south of Mandeville; Somerset.
Not common.
Alcadia hollandi (C B.
Ad ).
Garrett's woods near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset road, 2 miles west of Mandeville; Somerset.
Abundant.
Alcadia pusilla (C. B.
Ad.).
Somerset road, 2 miles out from Mandeville; Somerset.
Eutrochatella pulchella (Gray).
Williamsfield road about 3 miles from Mandeville; woods at King Edward's Hotel; woods opposite Cedar Hill, and Garrett's woods, near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
Found crawling on rocks in the woods, not found copiously, but generally distributed around Mandeville.
Eutrochatella pulchella is transparent whitish, the rostrum and sides of foot maculated and dotted with black, tentacles clear whitish, eyes at their outer bases.
It glides with the distal disk of the short muzzle in contact with the ground.
When travelling on a dry table it sometimes raised the forward part of the foot.
The name Trochatella being preoccupied by Lesson, Fischer in 1885 proposed to substitute Eutrochatella, type T. 'pulchella.
The Cuban group of large species has been called Hapata by Wagner in his monograph in the Conchylien Cabinet now appearing, but it should bear the name Viana (type Helicina regina Morelet), the references being as follows : Viana H. and A. Adams, Genera of Recent Mollusca II, p. 305, March 1856, for regina and sagra.
Hapata Gray, Annals and Magazine of Natural History (2 Ser.
), XVIII, November 1856, p. 414.
Monotype Helicina regina Morel.
Rhynchocheila Shuttleworth, Notitice M alacologicce II, 1878, p. 15.
Monotype H. regina Morel.
Lucidella aureola (Fdr.).
Mt.
Wesley Church near Williamfield ; Bloomfield and other places within a mile of Mandeville; Santa Cruz road; Somerset, on shady stone walls.
Lucidella undulata Pfr.
Roadsides a mile north of Mandeville; Benmore and Bloomfield, Mandeville; Sterridge's place, about 3 miles southeast of Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset road 2 miles west of Mandeville; Somerset.
Very variable in sculpture, often found in mossy places on stone walls; larger in shaded places.
Lucidella adamsiana Pfr.
Benmore and Bloomfield, Mandeville; King Edward's Hotel, and Somerset road, near Mandeville; Somerset.
Lucidella lineata (C. B.
Ad.)
(L. nana Pfr.).
Benmore and King Edward's Hotel, Mandeville.
PROSERPINIDiE.
Proserpina nitida Gray.
Benmore, Mandeville; King Edward's woods, woods opposite Cedar Hill, Garrett's woods and Lower Santa Cruz road, near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset.
Descriptions of New Species.
Zaphysema buddiana avus n. subsp.
The shell has the sub-globular, somewhat depressed shape of Z. buddiana, but is very much larger with about the same number of whorls.
The spire is low and very obtuse.
The surface, where unworn, shows delicate and rather close punctation, as in the typical form.
Alt.
24, diam.
30^ mm.
; whorls 4£. "
25, " 30 " " 4£.
Westmoreland.
Types No.
795, A. N. S. P., collected by W. J. Holland, and received with the A. D. Brown collection.
Proserpinula margaritella i»sp.
Fig.
6.
The shell is subdiscoidal, biconvex; thin, polished, very faintly marked with minute growth-lines.
Spire low, convex.
Whorls 4, Fig.
6.
— Proserpinula margaritella.
moderately convex, joined by a distinctly impressed suture, the last rounded peripherally, the base depressed, deeply sunken at the axis, though there is no true umbilicus.
The aperture is slightly oblique, of a broad, depressed lunate shape.
Peristome simple, the outer lip evenly arcuate; basal margin straightened, columellar margin veiy short and arcuate; not thickened.
Central callus very small and extremely thin.
There is no perceptible internal callus and no teeth or lamellae.
Alt.
1.75, diam.
3.8 mm.
Wesley Mount Church, one mile south of Williamsfield.
Types No.
101,430, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910.
Other specimens were taken in the neighborhood of Mandeville, exact locality not noted.
This species is related to P. discoidea (C. B.
Ad.
), but it differs by the comparatively wider spire and much narrower last whorl (as seen in a dorsal view), and the smaller size, a specimen of T. discoidea with 3£ whorls measuring 6 mm.
in diameter.
Sagda grandis n. sp.
Figs.
7, 8.
The shell is large, solid and high, the diameter not much exceeding the height; white under a very thin pale yellow cuticle.
The spire is dome-shaped above; whorls about 9£, somewhat convex, the first If nearly smooth, several following whorls densely and regularly sculptured with fine, close, slightly curved, retractive striae, but on the last two whorls they become almost obsolete; on the later whorls, especially the last two, a secondary sculpture of extremely minute vertical and slowly ascending spiral threads appears.
On the base this is wanting ; and denuded shells show traces of it like an extremely fine fabric pressed into plastic clay.
The last whorl in front view is double the width of the preceding, is rounded peripherally, rather convex on the base, and rather deeply excavated around the axis.
Aperture of the usual lunate shape.
The basal lamina varies from Figs.
7, 8.
— Sagda grandis.
Fig.
9.
— Sagda spei.
± to one whorl long and is very high.
It revolves at or barely within the greatest convexity of the base.
The columellar lamella is either entirely wanting or low, blunt and weak, high on the axis.
Alt.
26^ diam.
28* mm. "
26 , " 29 " Somerset, Manchester.
Types No.
100,883, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, May, 1910.
This fine Sagda is one of the largest of the genus.
It occurs with S. jayana (C. B.
Ad.)
from which it differs by (1) the weakness or absence of a columellar lamella (2) the position of the basal lamella, which revolves decidedly nearer the center than in S. jayana.
(3) the apical whorls, which are distinctly larger in grandis than in jayana 34 (4) the secondary microscopic sculpture of S. grandis, resembling a woven fabric.
This may be the form which C. B. Adams mentions (Contrib.
to Conch., p. 173) as a large form of Helix epistylium, but it is not the species so named by M tiller.
Thirty specimens were taken.
Probably C. B. Adams' Helix epistylium var.
minor from Westmoreland (Contrib.
to Conch., p. 173) will prove to be a distinct species which will be called Sagda minor (C. B.
Ad.).
The var.
delaminata of the same author (t. c, p. 174) from Easington in the district of St. Davids is perhaps another distinct species, but it has been very inadequately described.
Sagda spei n. sp.
Fig.
9.
The shell is of moderate size, solid, elevated, the height about 85 per cent, of the diameter, white under a thin pale brown-tinted cuticle; quite glossy.
The spire is broadly dome-shaped above.
Whorls about 8, moderately convex, the first \\ nearly smooth, the rest sculptured with fine, slightly curved, retractive striae, which in large specimens are usually weaker on the last whorl.
Under a strong lens very feeble traces of granulation are barely perceptible in places between the stria 1 on the last whorl.
The last whorl in a front view is more than twice the height of the preceding whorl.
It is convex beneath and moderately excaved in the center.
The aperture is lunate.
The basal lamella is about a half whorl long, well developed, and revolves at the point of greatest convexity of the base.
The columellar lamella though distinct is very small.
Alt.
18, diam.
21.3 mm.
; whorls 8. "
16, " 19.5 " " 7i Hope River region, the types from Hall's Delight, St. Andrew, No.
88,715, A. N. S. P. This is a rather common snail eastward from Kingston.
It differs from S. jayana (C. B.
Ad.)
by the rudimentary columellar lamella and by having the basal lamella situated further inward from the periphery.
In the structure of the lamella?
it resembles S. grandis P. and B., from which it differs by the greater height of the last whorl, the totally distinct secondary sculpture, and the smaller apical whorl.
8. connectens has the basal lamella more peripherally situated, and the spire is much lower.
S. alveare (Pfr.)
has a more conic spire and lower last whorl, but in the collection of the Academy numerous lots of this species were so labelled.
Sagda epistyloides Fer.
is, according to the original figures, a shell of about the size of S. spei; but it is represented as far more 1910.]
529 coarsely sculptured.
We have seen no Sagda agreeing with Ferussac's figures.
One of us found many long-dead shells of S. spei in a thicket on the western slope of Long Mountain at Rockfort.
The shells are small and low but otherwise agree with the types.
Two apparently adult examples measure: Alt.
13, diam.
17.5 mm.
; whorls 7+. "
12, " 16 " " 7."
Sagda anodon n. sp.
The shell is imperforate, rather thin, the height usually about threefourths the diameter; ay hit e under a thin smooth pale yelloYV cuticle.
Spire convexly Ioyv conic, the apex projecting slightly.
Whorls about 6 J, slightly convex \ r ery slowly increasing, irregularly, rather weakly striate.
The periphery is broadly rounded.
Base convex, excavated in the center.
Aperture lunate, without internal lamellae.
Alt.
9.8, diam.
13.8 mm. "
9.5, " 13 " 8.5, " 13.3 " Rockfort, near Kingston.
Types No.
101,137, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, May, 1910.
The type lot consists of "dead" shells.
A fresh one, not quite mature, collected at Rockfort by Mr. Wm.
J.
Fox, supplied the item of color.
It is possible that this shell is the Helix epistylium var.
delaminata, very inadequately described by Professor C. B. Adams, from Easington, St. Davids, a place some distance east from Rockfort.
Fig.
10.
— Sagda simplex.
Sagda simplex n. sp.
Fig.
10.
The shell is imperforate, much depressed, the height slightly over half the diameter (56 to 57 per cent.
); thin, white under a very thin, glossy pale yellowish cuticle.
Spire convex, whorls 6^ to 6f, slightly convex, very slowly increasing, with weak sculpture of irregular growthwrinkles.
The last whorl is rounded peripherally, convex beneath, rather broadly but not deeply excavated around the axis.
The aper.130 [Sept., ture is lunate, the columellar margin thickened near and at its insertion in the center.
There are no internal lamellae.
Alt.
7.3, diam.
13 mm. "
6.9, " 12 " 6.9, " 12.3 " Somerset, Manchester.
Types No.
101,140, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, May, 1910.
This form is apparently what Professor C. B. Adams described as Helix osculum var.
delaminata; but if so this name is barred by the prior //.
epistylium var.
delaminata C. B.
Ad., which is probably a valid species.
While the shell under consideration resembles Sagda osculans closely in form, it differs constantly, in a very large series collected in the Mandeville region, by the total absence of internal laminae.
The laminate S. osculans was not taken in this region.
We have no evidence whatever that the two forms intergrade, and are decidedly of the opinion that both are distinct and valid species.
Spirostemma mandevillensis »• sp.
Fig.
11.
The shell is pillar-shaped, the diameter contained 6 to 6£ times in the length, widest near the middle, tapering very slowly and slightly towards both ends; brown, rather dark when living; widely truncate above, the breach closed by a strongly convex plug.
Whorls remaining are nearly flat, the last one shortly free in front, very strongly keeled, at the base, concave just above and below the keel.
The sculpture is of fine, regular, extremely oblique retractive striae, which are about as wide as their intervals.
The aperture is small, its greatest length contained 6^ to 1\ times in the length of the shell, very oblique, obovate, being angular below, broadly rounded above.
Peristome pale, continuous, narrowly expanded throughout.
The internal axis is very slender, nearly straight in the upper whorls.
It begins to be sinuous in the seventh, becoming progressively more broadly spiral from there to the last.
\5k/ In an obliquely basal view in the mouth a large false Fig.
11. umbilicus is seen, about one-third as wide as the last whorl.
Length 14.3, diam.
2.2, length of aperture with peristome 1.9 mm.
; whorls 12f .
Length 13.3, diam.
2.25, length of aperture with peristome 2 mm.
; whorls \2\.
1910.]
531 Somerset Road, about two miles from Mandeville.
Types No.
101,172, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910.
This species stands between S. tenella and S. elatior (C. B.
Ad.).
S. tenella is a paler, smaller and more delicate species, with the aperture less or not at all protracted.
S. elatior is larger, more finely striate shell, with the axis gyrate in a greater number of whorls.
Varicella (Varicellula) rapax n. sp.
Fig.
12.
The shell is lanceolate, slender, the length about 3^ times the diameter, thin, corneous, glossy.
The outlines of the spire are very slightly convex, nearly straight; apex obtuse.
Whorls 6^, moderately convex.
The first H whorls are smooth; then narrow vertical impressed lines appear, faint and widely spaced at first, soon becoming deeper, the last four whorls sculptured with nearly regular vertical grooves parted by much wider convex intervals (or wide, very low, convex riblets parted by narrow grooves).
On the face of the last whorl there are about 3 such riblets in one millimeter; they are a little more crowded on the last part of the whorl.
They extend undiminished to the base.
There are also a few very ill-defined slightly deeper varix grooves, two on the last, three on the penultimate whorl.
The suture is margined by transparence.
The aperture is lanceolate, quite narrow in the upper third, 40% the length of the shell.
The outer lip arches well forward in the middle, retracting above and below.
The columella is quite short, vertical, very obliquely truncate at its base.
In basal view no "false umbilicus" is visible.
Length 10.5, diam.
3, length of aperture 4.6 mm.
Somerset, Manchester.
Type No.
101,421, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910.
This species resembles V. puella (C. B.
Ad.)
in form of the shell and columella, but differs from it by the very much coarser sculpture.
V. tenera (C. B.
Ad.)
is a much more slender species, which approaches the new form in sculpture.
V. rapax certainly differs from all of the numerous Varicellas described by C. B. Adams, the types of which have been redescribed and figured by one of us.
Fresher specimens of V. rapax may perhaps show brown streaks along the indistinct varixgrooves.
Fig.
12.
532 [Sept., Geomelania (Scalatella) microglypta n. sp.
Fig.
13.
The shell is minutely rimate, slender, columnar, tapering very slowly to the obtuse (truncated) summit, grayish-white.
6^ whorls remaining are very convex, the suture deeply impressed.
Sculpture of longitudinal ribs somewhat wider than the intervals, and about .055 mm.
from crest to crest, on the last two whorls; over the ribs and intervals run many fine spiral threads, of which there are about 36 on the penultimate whorl.
The aperture is ovate, outer lip obtuse, expanded ; in profile straight or slightly concave above the periphery, regularly arching forward at the lower outer portion.
Length 4.1, diam.
1.1, length of aperture 1 mm.
Near Mandeville.
Types No.
101,345, A. N. S. P., collected by A. P. and S. Brown, 1910.
In figure and size this species hardly differs from G. pygmaea ('.
B.
Ad., but the sculpture is very much finer and closer.
Fig.
13.
Rhytidopoma fraterminor " Bp.
Big.
14.
The shell is perforate, turrite, rather slender, thin, variable in color: dark reddish-brown, the stri:r lighter, or pale yellow with vertical series of brown spots formed by the interruption of spiral bands, of which there are six on the last whorl, the next to the lowest one nearly continuous; or it may be uniform pale yellowish.
In individuals retaining the spire the latter tapers regularly to the obtuse apex; but the early whorls are usually lost, leaving 5 to 5^ in adult shells.
Whorls 1h, strongly convex, the last fourth of the last whorl descends, running free from the preceding whorl, separated from it at the aperture by a distance about equal to the width of the outer lip.
The embryonic shell consists of 2 whorls, the first H smooth, the next half whorl minutely striate.
After that sharp strongly raised, narrow striae appear, arranged in groups of 3 or 4 on the third whorl, mostly by pairs on the next two whorls; after which the striae are in groups of 4 or 5, the first one largest, the rest gradually diminishing.
The groups are separated by plain spaces.
On the last 3 or 4 whorls two or three larger striae of each group become higher and lamellar near the suture above, where they project strongly.
Fig.
14.
Aperture oval, the inner outline less curved than the outer.
Peristome thin, flatly reflexed, whitish with several brown spots, sometimes indistinct, wider on the outer and basal margins, and having a barely projecting inner rim.
Length 9.5, diam.
4 mm., width of outer lip .3 mm., 5£ whorls remaining.
Length 10, diam.
4.2 mm., apex entire.
Length 7, diam.
3.2 mm., 4^ whorls remaining.
Wesley Mount Church, near William sfield.
Types No.
101,503.
A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910.
This species is closely related to R. campbelli (C. B.
Ad.
), but it is very much slenderer, less robust, with a much more slowly taperingspire and without the strong spiral cords in the umbilical region characteristic of R. campbelli.
Seven specimens were taken, one having the spire entire.
The striae are undulated in the darkest specimens, but not noticeable in the light ones.
CYCLOPHORIDiE.
This family is represented by a single genus in Jamaica.
There has been a good deal of uncertainty about the proper generic name for the group among the several following: Aperostoma Troschcl, Zeitschrift fur Malakozoologie, IV, 1847, p. 44; cj.
Pfeiffer, /.
c, pp.
44 and 104.
Fischer, Manual de Conchy liologic, p. 744; and von Martens, Biplogia Ccntrali Americana, Mollusca, p. 300 [type C. blanchetianus], Crocidopoma Shuttleworth, Journal dc Conchyl., V, 1857, p. 271 (lor C. floccosum and C. suturale) [type C. saturate], Playstoma M6rch, Malak.
Blatter, VII, 1869, p. (i(i.
Not Playstoma Meigen, 1803.
Neocyclotus Fischer et Crosse, Mission Sci.
au Mexique, Moll., II, p. 148 [type C. clijsoni Pfr.].
Ptychocochlis Simpson, Proc.
U.
8.
National Museum, XVII, 1895, p. 431, type Neoct/clotux jamaicensis.
Plectocyclotus Kobelt und Moellendorff, Cat.
gegenw, Pneumonopomen, p. 138 (34) [type C. jamaicense Sowb.].
Aperostoma was proposed, as Fischer and Crosse have pointed out.
for three very diverse species, belonging to as many genera; but Pfeiffer, in the same year commented upon this fact, and restricted the group to American Cycloti, giving a list of the species.
This restriction was accepted by Fischer (1885) and by von Martens (1890).
The genus Neocyclotus was therefore superfluous.
Crocidopoma seems to us to be only a subgenus of Aperostoma, not a separate genus.
For the group of corrugated Jamaican species the subgeneric term Ptychocochlis Simpson should be used.
Plectocyclotus Kob.
et Mlldff.
s an absolute synonym.
PtychococJUis is a somewhat difficult group in the present condition of the literature.
Chitty's monograph is not all that could be desired; yet his major grouping of the species by characters of the operculum is doubtless sound.
The species long known as " jamaicensis Chemnitz" is certainly not the Chemnitzian form, which was really portlandcnsis of Chitty.
As Chemnitz was not binomial, this use of the name was of no effect. "
Cyclostoma jamaicensis" next figured in the supplement of Wood's Index Testaceologicus, but the figure given defies identification, and may or may not represent the jamaicensis of Sowerby's Thesaurus Conchyliorum, where the first recognizable, though not veiy good, figures are given.
We would therefore call the species Aperostoma jamaicensc (Sowerby).
Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) lacteofluviale a. sp.
The shell is umbilicate, the umbilicus contained 5^ times in the diameter; rather depressed, the height two-thirds the diameter; solid, covered with a chestnut cuticle.
The spire is low and small; whorls 4J, very convex, very finely striate radially, the first If nearly smooth.
Small waves then appear, at first radial in direction, but after 2A whorls they become strong, regular, protractive, not reaching either suture.
After the first third of the last whorl the waves weaken and are replaced by ill-defined depressions longer in the spiral direction.
At the periphery and base there are a few inconspicuous, coarse spirals.
The basal keel is low, defined by a depression within, and sometimes with a few pits outside.
The aperture is oblique, rotund, angular above, reddish-brown within, the lip whitish, outer and inner margins about equally curved.
Alt.
10.5, diam.
16 nun.
The operculum is rather strongly concave outside, and bears a spiral lamella which makes 7 turns and terminates in a central pit as usual.
At the outer whorls, the edge of this lamina is reflexed outwardly and flattened, almost meeting across the interval.
Inside it is yellow and slightly convex.
Diameter 5 mm.
Round Hill, Milk River, Clarendon, the types No.
101,193, A. N. S. P., received from Mr. George H. Clapp.
This is a species of Chitty's group 1, somewhat related to A. notatum Chitty, but distinct in sculpture, etc.
Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) tryonianum a. sp.
The shell is rather openly umbilicate, the diameter of the umbilicus half the width of the aperture; height about 70 per cent, of the diameter; white under a thin yellow cuticle which has a tendency to be deciduous in several narrow bands on the last whorl.
Spire low-conic, the apex rather acute.
Whorls 4+, tubular, the first 1^ nearly smooth, the rest having a sculpture of fine, close, thread-like radial stria;, closer and less regular on the last whorl.
There is no trace of corrugation.
The last whorl is rounded, with no trace of a keel or ridge on the base.
Aperture nearly circular, not angular above, slightly oblique, the thin peristome in contact with the preceding whorl for a very short distance only.
Alt.
10, diam.
14 mm.
Operculum evenly and moderately concave outside, bearing a spiral lamina of fully 7 whorls outside of the central depression.
This lamina flares broadly outward, leaving but a narrow space between the turns; and its outer end is not concrescent with the precedingturn.
The inside is convex in the middle.
Diameter 5 mm.
Jamaica.
Type No.
101,141, A. N. S. P., from the G. W. Tryon collection.
A species of Chitty's group No.
1, apparently related to the small variety of A. notatus, but with no trace of a basal keel or corrugation.
o r 3 o H o en o r 2 o H o C/3 o r o H O 1 — t W o r w 3 2 o O l-H T3 53 O O > n > p > H c/> O r > CO o "0 r > H M X o r x z o H O Tl o p > n > p > H 05 o 17 s r _> o 13 r > H X o r 3 2 O H pa o ■v CO o O > o > a ■z > H w o t— I TO r > CD o T3 r > H W X o r pi do o H o • — i no o p > o > p z > H w CJ X CO o > H PLATE XXII.
