STATISTICAL STUDIES ON VARIATION IN THE WINGLENGTH OF A BUTTERFLY OF THE SUBFAMILY SATYRINJE.
BY T. FUKUDA.
As is well known the distinction of sex generation or habitat in any species of butterfly may sometimes be a definite cause of the differences in size.
The aim of the pre sent report is to determine statistically the degree of such differences found under these circumstances.
Material.
Ypthima philomera var.
argus' which I selected for the material of this work is a small butterfly of the subfamily Satyrinse commonly found in Japan.
Judging from my observations and breeding experiments this species most likely repeats its lifecycle three times during one year at least in all the warmer districts of this country the butterflies appearing in succession AprilMay first generation JuneJuly second generation and AugustOctober third generation.
The details of the material are shown in Table I.
Table I.
Lot I II III IV V VI Male.
Female.
37 42 57 36 53 30 45 157 56 Date.
1115 V 1910 1317 VII  2024 IX 2024 VIII 1909 2830 VIII 1910 1922 VIII  Locality.
Kawanabe Prov.
Satsuma.
Himeji Prov.
Harima.
n a tt Tsumago Prov.
Shinano.
All the individuals of one and the same lot were captured by myself within an area about two miles in diameter. '
There is scarcely any doubt that Lots I III belong to the corresponding generations of 1910 while Lots IV and V are most likely the representatives of the third.
Having come from a comparatively cold district Lot VI probably consists of the individuals of the second generation.
1 Kawanabe Prov.
Satsuma 20 miles south of Kagoshima nearly at the southern extremity of Kiushiu Himeji Prov.
Harima 35 miles west of Kobe Tsumago Prov.
Shinano 60 miles northeast of Nagoya.
278 June The Method of Measurement.
The method adopted in the measurement is as follows the right fore wing of the butterfly carefully removed from the body is put upon the glass stage of a dissecting microscope and covered with a thin plate of mica the mirror of the microscope is arranged to so reflect light from its surface as to make the outline of the wing clear then the length from the base of the wing to the farthest point on its outer margin without taking the length of the marginal hairs into account this point is always a little behind the anterior angle is measured with compasses from over the mica to the nearest half millimeter.
The Differences Among the Means.
Table II shows how the variants of each lot are distributed through the classes while in Table III are exhibited the means of measurements the standard deviations and the coefficients of variation with their probable errors.
One may notice in these tables but more clearly in Table IV how some fairly considerable differences occur among the mean values of several measurements.
These differences are always great enough to be considered significant as they exceed three times the corresponding probable errors except in one case only a where two groups of males from the same locality and captured in the same season two successive years are to be compared with each other.
It might be supposed that some intrinsic causes lying in the bodies of the animals must have had influence in determining the winglength of the butterflies but several external factors too e.g. the temperature the quantity of food etc. working on the developing organisms surely have had some important share in it.
Table II Class.
Lot Sex No Mode.
Range.
cf 37 15.5 16.0 16.5 17 17.5 1 18.0 3 18.5 2 19.0 6 19.5 9 20.0 9 20.5 5 21.0 2 I 19.5 20.0 17.521.0 11 o 1 42 1 10 13 12 5 1 18.0 17.019.5 111  57 1 1 5 16 20 11 3 17.5 15.518.5 111 9 36 3 10 13 8 2 17.0 16.018.0 IV d 1 53 1 3 6 16 17 9 1 18.0 16.019.0 IV 9 30 1 2 5 13 4 4 1 17.0 15.518.5 V d 45 1 6 13 16 9 18.0 16.518.5 VI V 157 1 1 11 29 50 37 22 4 2 18.5 16.520.5 VI y 56 2 4 9 22 7 8 3 1 18.0 16.520.0 1912.
I II III III IV IV V VI VI Table III.
279 Sex.
No.
d 37 
42  57 9 36 J 53 9 30  45  157 9 56 Mean.
19.527 18.155 17.360 16.944 17.717 17.050 17.789 18.637 18.116 0.093 0.057 0.053 0.057 0.057 0.080 0.051 0.036 0.067 Standard Deviation.
0.838 0.551 0.591 0.511 0.611 0.650 0.511 0.667 0.738 0.066 0.041 0.037 0.041 0.040 0.057 0.036 0.025 0.047 Coefficient of Variability.
4.29 3.03 3.40 3.01 3.45 3.81 2.87 3.58 4.07 0.34 0.22 0.21 0.24 0.23 0.33 0.20 0.14 0.26 Table IV.
Lots.
Difference.
 a V IV c
0.072  0.076 0.405 b I II 1.372  0.109 7.026 c II III  0.795  0.078 4.379 d VI II 0.482  0.067 2.586 e VI v 0.848  0.062 4.550 f V III cf 0.429  0.074 2.412  g III cfIH 9 0.416  0.078 2.396 h IV cfIV 9 0.667  0.095 2.795 i VI cfVI  0.521  0.076 2.796 We can see Lots IIII in Tables II III or b c in Table IV that the length of the fore wings of the male butterflies diminishes gradually as the season advances.
That this species winters over as caterpillars was ascertained in my breeding experiments and that Lot I implies only the individuals which had hibernated during their caterpillar stages is scarcely doubtful so I am inclined to attribute this difference 6 of the winglength between this lot and Lot II to some such cause as mentioned by Standfuss 2 i.e. the difference in the length of the feeding period which had happened to affect the developing organisms.
The same rule has probably held in Case c. In the succeeding three cases df we can recognize how the length of the fore wings of the butterflies even if of the same sex and generation has the tendency to increase the more the latitude of their habitat increases.
Bachmetjew 3 has ascertained that the butterflies of this sub2 Morgan T. H. Experimental Zoology 1907 pp.
24 25.
J Experimented Entomologische Studien II 1907.
family flying in Bulgaria with a few exceptions have greater wingexpansion than those of the same species found in Germany or in France.
He attributes this to the difference of temperature.
We have several other instances concerning the size of the butterflies of this subfamily diminishing gradually under comparatively high latitudes.
All these instances are not in accordance with my result.
In gi once more we meet with such an instance of the differences in the winglength as is opposed to the facts hitherto commonly acknowledged and especially to the results of observations made by Bachmetjew.
On examining ten Bulgarian species of this subfamily he has concluded that the wingexpansion of the females more or less exceeds that of the males.
The case is quite the reverse with Ypthima philomera var.
argus the males having on an average longer fore wings than the females.
It is true that this species shows a sexual difference in the shape of the fore wings their anterior angles being a little more obtuse in females than in males but this difference is never so great that it can reverse the situations of the two sexes.
I cannot interpret the abovementioned discrepancies between the present results and those hitherto obtained but to attribute them to the differences between the species.
The Standard Deviations and the Coefficients of Variabilities.
The standard deviations and the coefficients of variation do not represent anything as distinct as the case of means.
They are fairly great however in Lot I differing so much from those of Lot II or III as to claim to be considered probably significant thus  the difference between Lots I and II 0.287  0.077 a the difference between Lots I and III 0.247  0.076.
C the difference between Lots I and II 1.26  0.40 C the difference between Lots I and III 0.89  0.40 If we call to mind that the individuals included in Lot I are such as had distinctly longer caterpillar stages than in the other lots this fact may deserve our special notice.
THE EXPERIMENTAL METHOD OF TESTING THE EFFICIENCY OF WARNING AND CRYPTIC COLORATION IN PROTECTING ANIMALS FROM THEIR ENEMIES.
BY W. L. McATEE.
Contents.
Introduction 281 Experiments with Invertebrates chiefly Insects 287 Experiments with Vertebrates...
289 Fishes 289 Amphibia 290 In Countries other than the United States 290 In the United States 291 Toads 291 Frogs 295 Salamanders 296 Reptiles 296 Experiments in Asia 296 Experiments in Europe 298 Experiments in America 298 Mammals 300 Mixed Groups of Animals 301 Birds 318 Experiments in Europe 318 Experiments in Africa 325 Experiments in Asia 326 Experiments in America 331 Experiments by Judd and Beal 332 Summary 356 Introduction.
The selectionist theories regarding the significance and the causes of production of the socalled warning mimicking and cryptic coloration long preceded a knowledge of the food preferences of insectivorous animals sufficient to warrant such speculations.
In fact this knowledge is still almost entirely lacking for many parts of the world  including the Amazon valley which is the home of the brightly colored Heliconiid butterflies and their mimics that suggested the mimicry theory to H. W. Bates.
In 1861 Bates explained the numerous cases of mimicry of the butterflies of this family by butterflies and moths of at least five other families by stating that the Heliconiidse probably are unpalatable to insect enemies and that the others disguised in their dress share this immunity.
1 He 1 Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond. XXIII 1862 p. 510.
19 also proposed to explain cryptic resemblances or the mimicry of inanimate objects by natural selection.
Four years later A. R. Wallace stated' 2 that he agreed entirely with Bates as to the cause of mimicry and cited many examples of the phenomenon from the Malayan region.
In 1867 the same author first gave a definite theory 3 concerning the significance of the brilliant colors which are now commonly referred to as warning colors.
In 1870 4 he extended the application of Bates' theory of cryptic and mimicking colors and advanced the results of experiments in support of the theory of warning colors.
It is not necessary at this time to trace the later development of the theory by Miiller Dixey Poulton and others.
Suffice it to say that the original definite suggestion that conspicuous colors have been developed to advertise disagreeable qualities was the result of Wallace's cudgelling his brain at Darwin's instance for an explanation of the coloration of certain insect larva which obviously could not be accounted for by sexual selection.
The theory has since been expanded to include conspicuous coloration in all groups of animals.
A certain insect smells badly to man  is colored red and black for example it is conspicuous and nasty to us hence it must be to insectivorous animals.
Its striking color advertises its nauseous qualities and it is avoided after experience in other words is protected.
So goes the original theory.
Although it has been expanded to include all conspicuous forms whether or not they are nauseous to man its supporters seemingly find it impossible entirely to forsake the older anthropomorphic ground.
Mimicry theories hold that a palatable form gains protection by resembling one of the conspicuous but nauseous ones and that distasteful forms are mutually benefited by resemblance.
Each of these theories it may be repeated was built up in the absence of evidence that the insects concerned were actually distasteful or palatable as claimed.
This was the principal criticism made by the comparatively few who at the time dared question the allsufficiency of natural selection and it stands today the greatest obstacle to acceptance of the theories.
This criticism spurred the supporters of the theory to sporadic efforts to produce evidence in favor of their contentions.
The favorite method of securing such evidence has been by experimenting with captive animals and the principal body of alleged proof of the 2 Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond. XXV 1866 pp.
1922.
3 Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1867 p. lxxxi.
4 Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection 1870 Chap.
III.
distastefulness of certain insects and the palatability of others consists of the results of experiments.
The cry always is to test theories under experimental conditions but there are many things which cannot be so tested.
The very conditions of captivity and the limited choice of food constitute abnormalities which cannot fail to distort the food relations of most animals and so modify the results of experiments that they bear little or no analogy to natural conditions.
In experiments play is allowed to the fancy of the experimenter and the interpretation of facial and other expression of the subject has often been given more weight than the actual result of the experiment that is whether the insect was eaten or rejected.
R. I. Pocock 5 very frankly admits this saying It is quite clear that the plain record of an insect being eaten is no proof of its palatability.
Better evidence on this head is supplied by the behavior of the bird towards it.
After a little experience in the matter I was able to satisfy myself at all events as to the approximate correctness of my interpretation of the bird's actions and to judge thereby of the comparative palatability of the insects they tasted.
This is honest confession at any rate but the writer must take issue with this author as to the value of interpretation of behavior.
The plain record of an insect being eaten which he holds up to scorn may not show palatability but shows something much more definite namely that the insect is acceptable food.
Palatability in the sense used by some of the experimenters is entirely a figment of the imagination.
This is proved by the many cases of refusal in captivity of insects which are eaten under natural conditions and by the misinterpretation of the following among other features of the behavior of caged birds and other animals.
Wiping the bill or mouth If a bird wipes its bill or a lizard or frog its mouth when it is being experimented with the action is almost always credited as a sign of distaste.
Yet nothing is more common than to see wild birds wiping their beaks across branches or other objects.
It occurs at all times apparently is often done in a purely mechanical way and certainly has no essential connection with the taking of food or perception of tastes.
Dropping and picking up or in any way manipulating the prey is another thing usually taken as evidence of unpalatability but nothing could be more at variance with conclusions drawn from 5 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1911 p. 810. natural behavior.
It is highly characteristic of many birds to thresh their prey about and this is often continued until the object is broken in many pieces which are separately swallowed.
E. B. Poulton considered P. Z. S. 1887 p. 219 that a pupa would have been swallowed whole if palatable but as it was crushed and the contents eaten it must have been unpalatable and Weismann Studies in the Theory of Descent 1882 Vol.
I p. 341 thinks it readily conceivable that a certain caterpillar may not be unpalatable to lizards because they swallow it whole whilst it is perhaps distasteful to birds because they must hack and tear it in order to swallow it.
As a matter of fact it is habitual for woodpeckers and jays to peck open pupse and extract the contents and smaller birds as the chickadees and titmice not only use this method when attacking pupse but for large larva
also.
Many birds hold the food between their feet and hammer it vigorously before eating and others accomplish the same end by repeatedly picking it up and throwing it down.
At least one experimenter Jenner Weir recognized such actions as natural for he says All perfect Lepidoptera apparently require preparation before they are swallowed by birds they are taken between the mandibles shaken and bruised for a minute or two and generally have the wings removed before they are eaten.
6 In many experiments however this same action is reckoned .
as a sign of disgust if not as an actual rejection.
Lizards habitually chew large prey before swallowing snakes chew it or crush it by constriction all of these actions are simply part of the normal preparation of food for deglutition and in no sense of the word evidences of distaste.
Hesitancy and caution are usually translated as distaste.
Does a bird of prey dislike the mouse it holds by a talon on its perch for hours at a time does a butcherbird dislike the prey it impales on a thorn or wedges in a crotch for future reference
Does a cat play with a mouse because she hesitates to swallow so distasteful a creature
What animal does not employ dilatory tactics in feeding when it is not uncomfortably hungry
This subject naturally leads up to that of disregard which may be looked upon as hesitancy prolonged.
Disregard may arise from many conditions unrelated to the palatability of the food such as varying appeal of the food to the captive animal according to its state of activity or health or degree of hunger or such as the size of the object offered presence of the 8 Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1869 p. 22. experimenter or other disturbing elements.
Disregard is a frequent phenomenon in experiments with birds of mixed feeding habits which are most frequently used because more easily provided for in captivity.
These birds have no great natural fondness for insects and certainly not for adults of the order  Lepidoptera  most frequently used in the experiments.
The insignificance of disregard is shown throughout Frank Finn's experiments in the accounts of which Journ.
Asiatic Soc.
Bengal 1895 1896 1897 very common expressions concerning cases in which certain butterflies were not eaten in the presence of the experimenter are The butterflies were all gone later on Next day all the butterflies were gone etc.
In fact more than 64 per cent of the butterflies which were left in the cages were eaten in the absence of the experimenter and more than 77 per cent of those eaten belonged to the nauseous group.
The experiments of S. D. Judd see pp.
332352 show that disregard bears no particular relation either to acceptances or to rejections and certainly none to natural preferences.
Thus of the three categories of insects offered to the birds namely warningly colored insects others specially defended and nonprotected forms practically the same proportions 17 to 19 per cent.
were rejected while the percentage disregarded varied from 3 to 11.
In Poulton's tabulations of experiments P. Z. S. 1887 disregard is usually reckoned practically the same as a refusal.
Indeed the original tendency was to consider that disregard showed much greater distaste than any result following trial for it is pointed out pp.
193 194 that the brilliant colors of caterpillars to be of value must generally prevent even trial because of the fatal consequences to these larvae of very slight wounds.
However Poulton states that out of thirtyseven cases in the nauseous group fifteen were exposed to hungry animals other food being withheld and of the fifteen only three remained untasted.
Of these two have been shown to be eaten under certain circumstances p. 225.
Poulton estimates disregard properly in one case that of Lasiocampa querciis larvse.
These were disregarded by birds and lizards and the comment on the evidence is Neutral as far as the adult larva is concerned p. 209.
As a matter of fact disregard is no more of neutral significance in this case than in the fifteen others in which disregard or disregard plus acceptance is the sole evidence upon which proof of distastefulness is claimed.
The fact that nine of the eighteen insects of the unpalatable group are known to be eaten by wild British birds further suggests the unreliability of disregard as a guide to natural tastes.
In consequence of the too great fondness of some experimenters for psychological deductions the writer in judging experiments has separated disregards for the reasons above stated and has taken cognizance only of rejections that resulted from actual trial.
But a rejection has been credited for each time the experimenter says the object was refused even if it was eaten later.
This is certainly as great a concession in favor of the experiments as can be expected from one who believes not at all in their utility.
Tabulations have been made anew whenever possible from the detailed accounts of the experiments.
It cannot be hoped that these are free from error but it may properly be assumed that they are approximately correct.
The earlier experiments especially are characterized by the average small number of tests of the various insects.
For this reason single or a very few acceptances or refusals have been held to prove the palatability or otherwise of a certain form.
Thus in the eyes of those who had faith in experiments results piled up in a really beautiful way.
It is not out of order however to point out in advance that there are many inconsistencies between the various sets of experiments and that these show that conclusions based upon a few trials are extremely liable to be overturned.
An interesting case showing the danger of basing conclusions upon a single rejection is given by Jenner Weir Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
London 1869 p. 22 The imago of Spilosoma menthastri .... was tasted by the reed bunting but not relished and soon dropped the .... bird however attracted by the fluttering insect returned to it and ultimately swallowed it.
If the insect had been taken out the single rejection would of course have stood as the reed bunting's record.
A case illustrating the possibilities of single acceptances or rejections is R. I. Pocock's experiment on the distastefulness of Anosia plexippus Nature 87 1911 pp.
484485.
A specimen was offered to eleven species of birds and refused a total of thirteen times by them before it was offered to a tinamou which swallowed it at once.
Reversing the experiment thus might have given an exactly opposite impression of the palatability of this insect.
In the following pages the expressions accepted rejected and disregarded are often abbreviated to A R and D respectively.
In general the experiments are reviewed in groups determined by the classes of animals tested.
1912.j natural sciences of philadelphia.
287 Experiments with Invertebrates Chiefly Insects.
Since Professor E. B. Poult on 7 the most prominent supporter of the theories of warning and mimicking coloration has come to the conclusion from proper data  that is records of insects collected with naturally captured prey  that predaceous insects in general are enemies of the specially protected groups it is not necessary to review experiments relating to the food preferences of insects.
It is worthy of note however that some of these experiments have often been quoted as affording support to the prevailing theories.
Poulton's latest conclusion is proof therefore that even the ardent believers in the experimental method admit that an ounce of proof as to natural behavior is worth a pound of experimental evidence.
An annotated bibliography of experiments upon invertebrates is given for the benefit of those who may desire to consult the original accounts.
Those entries marked with an asterisk denote experiments which were not undertaken with a view to testing protective adaptations.
Barlow Edward.
A short note on the Foodinsects of the Mantis Heirodula bipapilla Serv.
Proc.
Asiatic Soc.
Bengal December 1894 1895 pp.
138139.
Ate Musca Lucilia and its own species and killed but did not eat the Hemiptera Cydopetia and Physomerus.
Belt Thomas.
The Naturalist in Nicaragua.
London 1888.
Experiments with Heliconii.
A large species of spider Nephila .... used to drop them out of its web when I put them into it.
Another spider that frequented flowers seemed to be fond of them and I have already mentioned a wasp that caught them to store its nest with p. 317.
Butler A. G. Remarks upon certain Caterpillars etc. which are unpalatable to their enemies.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Land. 1869 pp.
2729.
Spiders Ereiba diadema and Lycosa rejected larva
of Abraxas grossidariata and Halia wauaria p. 28.
Embody G. C. Food of freshwater Amphipods in aquaria.
Sonderabdruck aus Internat.
Rev.
d. ges.
Hydrobiologie u. Hydrographie Biol.
Suppl. Ill 1911 1912 pp.
46.
Freshly killed isopods snails earthworms tadpoles and bits of fish and beef were eaten but planaria were refused.
Food of Hydra p. 31.
Young Hyalella and Eucrangonyx were eaten.
Marshall G. A. K. and Poulton E. B. Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1902.
7 See Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1906 pp.
363 364 401 403 and 408.
Experiments on Mantidse in Natal and Rhodesia G. A. K. M. pp.
297313.
Summary of these experiments E. B. P. pp.
313315.
Conclusions from experiments on Mantidse E. B. P. pp.
315319.
We may safely conclude that outside the Acrseinse and doubtfully the Danainse Mantidse devour butterflies very freely the species with warning colors as well as the others and that they are far more indiscriminating than the majority of insecteaters p. 316.
But Mr. Marshall's experiments yielded plenty of evidence of the positive refusal and acceptance as it were under protest of Acrseinse so that there can be no doubt of their distastefulness to this class of enemy p. 317.
Despite this conclusion the fact remains that these Mantidse ate more Acrseinse than they rejected upon trial and rejected no Danainse.
It should be noted furthermore that many of the rejections occurred in the last day or two of the life of the various individual mantids when no food whatever was taken.
Experiments on spiders in the Karkloof G. A. K. M. pp.
319322.
Results of experiments on spiders and the earlier experiments on Mantidse  one probable meaning of tenacity of life in distasteful insects G. A. K. M. pp.
322325 E. B. P. pp.
325328.
Experiments have convinced me that both spiders and mantises have no appreciation of warning colors p. 322.
It is quite probable .... that certain species of spiders together with mantides and other predaceous insects will be found among the chief perhaps the chief nonparasitic enemies of aposematic insects p. 327.
Marshall G. F. L. and de Niceville L. The Butterflies of India Burmah and Ceylon Calcutta 188283.
Mr. de Niceville has experimented with the carnivorous Mantis on many of the butterflies believed to be offensive to birds and he has found A. violce is the only butterfly which all the species of Mtintis he has experimented with refuse to eat p. 318.
This is all there is on the experiments.
Meisner Otto.
Food of an Antlion and a Clerid in confinement.
Ent.
Bl.
Nurnberg 5 Nr.
9 September 20 1909 pp.
181 and 182.
A larva of the antlion Myrmeleon which had been fed only upon flies and caterpillars for a long time afterwards rejected ants.
A Clerus formicarius ate every Adalia bipunctata which got into its cage.
Patch E. M. Predaceous Beetles and hibernating Insects.
Bid.
148 Maine Agr.
Exp.
Sfa. November 1907 pp.
273276.
Pterostichus lucublandus was tested with numerous specimens of Corimelama pidicaria Cosmopepla carnifex Lygus pratensis and one Serica vespertina all of which were eaten.
Staphylinidse were tested with the Corimelama Lygus Cosmopepla and cutworms with same result.
Peckham E. G. Food of spiders and ants in captivity.
Occas.
Papers Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wis. I 1889 pp.
107 109 110.
Attidae devoured flies gnats larvae and other spiders but would not touch ants.
Synageles picata and Synemosyna formica are always hungry for gnats but will not eat ants p. 107.
Ants devoured an antlike spider Herpyllus which was placed in a vial with them p. 109.
Peckham G. W. and E. G. The Sense of Sight in Spiders with some observations on the Color Sense.
Trans.
Wis. Acad.
Sci. X 18945 pp.
231261.
Remarks on food taken in captivity but nothing in relation to protective adaptations of prey.
Plateau Felix.
Observations et experiences sur les moyens de protection de l'Abraxas grossulariata L. Mem.
de la.
Soc.
Zool.
de France VII 1894 pp.
375392 3 figs.
Experiences avec Araignees pp.
385388.
Spiders Amaurobius ferox and Agalena labyrinthica would not touch the larva of Abraxas.
Tegenaria domestica attacked the larva but could not pierce its tough skin.
Both Tegenaria and Epeira diadema ate imagos while Agalena rejected them.
Experiences avec Carabes et Dytiques pp.
388390.
Carabus auratus Dytiscusmarginatus and D. dimidiatus freely devoured Abraxas larvae.
Pocock R. I.
Notes upon the habits of some living Scorpions.
Nature 48 1893 pp.
104107.
They ate cockroaches bluebottle flies etc. in captivity.
Pocock R. I.
Further notes and observations on the instincts of some common English Spiders.
Nature 49 1893 pp.
6163.
It was found that the prey of Agalena labyrinthica consists largely of bes.
A Bombus put in a web was enshrouded before it was killed a bluebottle fly was pounced upon at once while a dronefly Eristalis was cautiously attacked and killed but not enshrouded.
Porter J.
B.
The habits instincts and mental powers of Spiders genera Argiope and Epeira.
Amer.
Journ.
of Psychology 17 1906 pp.
306357.
Experiments with food but not in relation to protective adaptations are described on pp.
334338.
Experiments with Vertebrates.
fishes.
In a paper entitled An Experimental Fieldstudy of Warning Coloration in Coralreef Fishes 8 Prof. Jacob Reighard records a variety of experiments to determine the significance of colors and flavors of prey to gray snappers Lutianus griseus.
The predaceous fishes were free and under normal conditions.
The common prey 8 Papers from the Tortugas Laboratory Carnegie Institution Vol.
II 1908 No.
9 pp.
257325. of this species at the time of the tests was found to be the sardine Atherina'laticeps a silvery fish that could readily be stained any color.
A large number of Atherina stained vermilion yellow green blue or purple were eaten practically as rapidly as fed.
Others dyed and treated with formic acid formaldehyde red pepper quinine ammonia or carbon bisulphid were taken with equal readiness.
Atherina were made unpalatable however by sewing in their mouths bits of the tentacles of medusa and an association of this unpalatability with a color red was established in the individuals of a colony of 150 snappers.
The association was found to persist at least five weeks.
The brightly colored fishes of the coral reefs were then offered to the snappers and they attempted to capture all offered and actually did take all but one species of which the single large specimen offered escaped.
The species taken were of a variety of colors including colors and patterns considered as typically warning.
In several species  conspicuousness is combined with unpleasant attributes in the form of defensive spines the typical warning combination yet these fish were all instantly taken p. 303.
It was further found that the gray snapper discriminates with great rapidity and delicacy between the various possible food elements of its environment which are not conspicuously different from each other thus proving that the bright colors of the reef fishes would be unnecessary even were their possessors unpalatableHence the conclusion is reached that the conspicuousness of coralreef fishes since it is not a secondary sexual character and has no necessary meaning for protection aggression or as warning is without biological significance p. 320.
AMPHIBIA.
In Countries Other than the United States.
Experiments dealing chiefly with Amphibia are few.
Those of Poulton with Hyla 9 are cited in another place.
A. G. Butler Eltringham Plateau and Finn also record short experiments with animals of this class.
Butler published 10 the fact that he had found the larvae of Abraxas grossulariata  Halia loauaria and a sawfly all fed upon gooseberry to be distasteful to frogs and lizards.
He asks May it not be possible that the plant transmits some pecuProc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1887 pp.
269274. l0 Ent.
Monthly Mag.
5 1808 pp.
131132. liar acid to the larvae which feed upon it such as to cause their rejection as food by small reptiles etc.
Plateau found that Rana temporaria and Triton punctatus rejected 4 while Triton alpestris disregarded the larvae of Abraxas.
11 Eltringham cites a very few tests made with a salamander.
The animal accepted earthworms and honey bees and disregarded larvae of Pieris brassicce.
1 'Finn found that the Indian bullfrog Rana tigrina 13 took all butterflies offered to it except two Danais chrysippus of Avhich species it ate one.
In the United States.
A number of experiments upon Amphibia have been performed in the United States.
These are discussed in two groups those on toads and those on frogs.
Toads.
 In company with Dr. A. K. Fisher the writer once attempted to give a toad Bufo lentiginosus his fill of hymenopterous food.
This occurred on Plummer's Island Md. about 1905.
Honey bees and wasps of the genera Polistes Sceliphron and Vespa were captured their wings were clipped and they were put down so that they would crawl in front of the toad which was partially domesticated about the cabin and was not much disturbed by the movements of humans.
The toad took every insect offered although at times he showed considerable but ludicrous signs of discomfort.
Not less than 30 and perhaps as many as 40 Hymenoptera were taken by this animal in about an hour.
He finally left the spot apparently to get away from a locality characterized by such extremely spicy food which nevertheless he was apparently unable to refuse.
In another experiment performed by the writer at the same locality on August 6 1911 another toad was also fed Polistes Pelopceus and another stinging wasp none of which was refused.
A sphinx moth a small white moth several ants and flies also were taken.
The toad attempted to eat a katydid Cyrtophyllus perspicillatus  but found it too large.
A small Heterocampa larva colored green and red was eaten and then a Julus was put before him.
As soon as it began to crawl he seized it by one end and not getting a good hold ejected it.
It then crawled over his head.
This might be construed by some as evidence of dislike but I think that if the Julus had been fairly seized it would have gone down.
At any rate the case well 11 Mem.
de la Soc.
Zool.
de France VII 1894 pp.
383 384.
12 Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1909 pp.
473 474. i3 Joum.
Asiatic Soc.
Bengal 66 1897 1898 p. 533. illustrates the danger of drawing conclusions from scanty experimenting for stomach examinations show Julus to be a favorite food with toads.
A. H. Kirkland says in his valuable paper on the economic value of the toad 14 Myriapods form a constant article of diet for the toad.
Species of the genus Julus were present in the majority of the stomachs examined the largest number found in a single stomach being seventyseven.
These creatures form 10 per cent of the food for the season.
Mr. Kirkland's examinations of stomachs serve to check another set of experiments which is claimed to show that squash bugs Anasa tristis are seldom eaten by toads.
The account of these experiments by C. M. Weed and Albert F. Conradi is as follows The common toad has been generally considered an enemy of the squash bug being frequently referred to in this connection in articles concerning the pest.
We made a large number of observations on this phase of the subject the most interesting result being the discovery that the odor given off by the bugs will actually kill toads if confined in a small open vessel such as a widemouthed bottle.
Some of these experiments as recorded in a published letter by Mr. Conradi are as follows 15 When a squashbug nymph of the fifth stage was suddenly introduced into a halfpint open widemouthed bottle containing a halfgrown live toad so that the batrachian would get the full effects of the pungent fumes secreted by the bug the toad was thrown into a temporary stupor the effect being similar to that of chloroform.
As the number of bugs was increased the effect on the toad was increased.
When as many as seven bugs were introduced the toad fell into a profound stupor from the effects of which it died in the course of twentyfour hours.
On September 8 an adult toad that had been kept in the laboratory vivarium with a scant food supply for several clays was placed in a quart jar of the same construction as the one mentioned above and eight bugs were introduced these bugs however had been so much disturbed previously that the source of the pungent secretion had been temporarily exhausted.
The toad hesitatingly devoured three after which she would remove with her front feet every specimen that made an attempt to ascend the wall of her enclosure but these bugs were not eaten.
The toad was then transferred to another jar of the same size and construction and eight bugs were suddenly 14 Bui.
46 Hatch Exp.
Sta. 1897 p. 15.
Science N. S. Vol.
XIV No.
360 November 22 1901 pp.
816 817.
See also Science N. S. Vol XIX No.
479 March 4 1904 pp.
393 394. introduced from the squash leaf so that the animal would get the first and fullest effects of the odor  the result was that the toad went through a series of contortions followed by a short period of stupor similar to that mentioned before.
Upon recovery the toad was again removed to the vivarium where it now lives in partial hibernation.
A young redspotted salamander was affected and killed as easily as the halfgrown toad while for the common field frog a greater number of bugs were required to bring about similar effects the frogs also being killed.
Many experiments with snakes were tried but no ill effects from the secretion of the bugs were apparent.
The odor that the bug secretes is contained in a clear slightly greenish liquid expelled from the extremity of the alimentary canal when it comes in contact with the air the odor is given off almost instantaneously while the liquid remains to evaporate.
Further observations showed that toads in confinement would eat squash bugs when very hungry but we do not think that toads ordinarily devour many of the pests.
16 It is most obvious that the conditions of these experiments are never even faintly simulated under natural conditions.
The conclusions in the last paragraph being based on the results of the experiments are therefore unwarranted.
Moreover they do not agree with the statements of other observers relating to the habits of the toad under normal conditions.
Kirkland found Anasa tristis in collected stomachs 17 as did also Judd and the writer.
Kirkland briefly records an experiment of his own as follows The writer once confined for study a large toad in a shaded outofdoor box filled with damp earth.
To provide suitable and sufficient food for it was quite a task until an entirely satisfactory expedient suggested itself.
A hard breadcrust was soaked in molasses and placed in the cage.
Bees wasps ants flies and beetles came to this bait and it was most interesting to watch the toad seize the flying insects often before they had alighted on the bread.
Stinging insects bees wasps etc. when swallowed by the toad apparently produced uncomfortable sensations for a short time.
Fishworms when captured by the toad often prove too much to be swallowed at once and when this is the case the fore limbs are brought 16 The Squash Bug Bull.
89 New Hampshire Agric.
Exp.
Sta. February 1902 pp.
2123.
17 Bui.
46 Hatch Exp.
Sta. 1897 p. 26. into use to force the unfortunate worm into the capacious gullet of its captor.
18 In this connection we may quote C. F. Hodge iy who in giving instructions as to the use of toads as insect catchers in houses says Sugar solutions should not be used as bait on account of the danger to honey bees which a toad will take in great numbers despite their stings.
Hodge quotes 20 a feeding test by Miss E. M. Foskett the insect used being Macrodactylus subspinosus.
Miss Foskett says One day I gathered a quantity of rose bugs in a tin box sat down in the shade beside my queer pet and began feeding bugs to him.
At first I did not count but finding his appetite so good I started to count.
When I had counted over eighty bugs and the toad showed no signs of wishing to conclude his meal I picked him up.
....
Previous to my beginning to count he had taken anywhere from ten to twenty bugs.
He was quite a large toad but the bugs were large too and very 'scratchy.'
The American Sportsman Vol.
3 No.
2 October 11 1873 p. 23 reports a series of experiments with toads by Dr. Thomas Hill.
This account does not have a thoroughgoing appearance of verity but this may be not a reflection on the experiments themselves but upon the reporting.
It is said a toad ate yellowstriped locusts earthworms and at one meal twentythree squash bugs and ninetyfour larvse of Pygcera menistra Datana ministra.
C. V. Riley briefly states 21 the results of offering larva
of Anosia plexippus to various animals as follows Prompted by ... .
experiments made in England I was led to make similar ones with our gayly colored Archippus larva and the result fully accords with that obtained by Mr. Weir for neither turkeys chickens toads nor snakes would touch it.
Included with some notes on the Florida chameleon Anolis principalis Dr. S. Lockwood records 22 an observation upon captive toads.
Two of these animals ate  respectively three and two potato beetles Leptinotarsa decemlineata  after which they would take no more.
Dr. Lockwood then remarks It was specially observable of the one which had swallowed the three spearmen despite the grotesque gravity of his demeanor that there was a certain dolorous 18 L.c p. 11.
19 Nature Study Leaflet Biol.
Ser.
I Worcester Mass. 1898 p. 11.
20 L. c p. 10.
21 Third Ann.
Rep. on the Insects of Missouri 1871 p. 148.
32 Am.
Nat. 10 1876' p. 8. air about him as of one suffering from an overdose of Doryphora..
Though kept some two weeks with no other food neither Bufo would touch a spearman again.
No better illustration could be asked of the misleading character of experimental results nor it may be added of the highly imaginative conclusions drawn therefrom.
Notwithstanding the dolorous air of these toads by reason of potatobeetle diet the fact remains that toads habitually feed on potato beetles.
Tenney 23 Riley 24 Kirkland 25 Garman 26 and Chittenden 27 among others record toads as enemies of potato beetles.
The writer has found the remains of no fewer than twelve Leptinrfarsa decemlineata in a single casting of a toad.
Frogs.
 In an article entitled ''Habit Formation in Frogs 28 A.
A. Schaeffer says Individuals of three different species of frogs Rana clamata R. sylvatica and R. virescens learned to avoid disagreeable objects such as hairy caterpillars in from four to seven trials or possibly less.
Such habits persisted for at least ten days but this point was not thoroughly tested.
A Rana clamata formed a habit of avoiding earthworms treated with chemicals in two trials.
This habit persisted perfectly for only a short time covering five trials in about twentytwo hours.
The habit persisted somewhat imperfectly for five days.
After an electric stimulus had been applied earthworms were not eaten for seven days although mealworms were eaten p. 334.
These observations point to the conclusion that any color may be regarded as warning provided a sufficiently disagreeable impression becomes associated with it.
Another experimenter Charles W. Hargitt was led to doubt the quick formation of such associations by Hyla as is shown by his comments on the behavior of a tree frog toward Hymenoptera.
In food taking he says Hyla behaves quite similarly to others of its kind.
It seems not to notice any except moving objects.
A spider may remain quietly in a given part of the cage for hours or days undisturbed.
If it assume an active attitude it is almost certain to be taken very promptly.
It is thus with any prey.
The insects most commonly supplied were flies small beetles grass23 Amer.
Nat. 5 1871 pp.
170 171.
24 Fourth Mo.
Rep. 1872 p. 16 and in many other publications.
25 Bui.
46 Hatch Agr.
Exp.
Sta. 1897 p. 25.
26 Bui.
91 Ky. Agr.
Exp.
Sta. 1901 p. 66.
27 Circ.
87 U. S. Bur Ent. 1907 p. 12.
2S Journ.
An.
Behavior. Vol.
1 No.
5 Sept.Oct. 1911 pp.
309335. hoppers spiders etc.
On one occasion a small wasp was released in the cage and at once began to buzz about or run up the sides of the cage actively.
It was but a few moments ere a specimen leaped eagerly and captured the prey.
Then a most interesting performance took place.
No sooner was the wasp seized than it was whipped into the mouth and in turn stung the frog the frog in turn showed a very lively appreciation of that fact and made an apparent effort to eject the creature but the process of ingestion had gone too far and deglutition was completed without further ado nor did the frog show the least further sign of distress.
On another day the operation was repeated and very much after the fashion of the preceding.
It may be doubted whether Amphibia show any particular discrimination based on that type of experience.
29 Salamanders.
 Albert M. Reese in a paper on the Food and Chemical Reactions of the Spotted Newt Diemyctylus viridescens says that the animals show no difference in reaction toward bits of raw meat and earthworms nor to the juices from these substances.
30 A specimen of hellbender Cryptobranchus allegheniensis which ejected remains of a crawfish soon after capture refused to eat any of these animals placed in its aquarium later.
31 Reptiles.
Experiments in Asia.
Among Frank Finn's many experimental contributions to the theory of natural selection are two which deal with the food taken by lizards.
The first 32 deals with the Indian lizard Calotes versicolor both captive and free individuals of which were offered a variety of adult Lepidoptera.
The results of feedings of the free and confined individuals agree very well except in the case of butterflies of the genus Evplcea.
The record for these insects with lizards in a cage is A 4 Rl and with those unconfined Al R4.
Species of Danais Delias eucharis and Papilio aristolochia were freely eaten and Finn concludes The behavior of these reptiles certainly does not appear to afford support to the belief that the butterflies at any rate usually considered nauseous are distasteful to them p. 48.
The second series of experiments we refer to are reported in 2 Behavior and Color Changes of Tree Frogs Journal of Animal Behavior Vol 2 No.
1 Jan.Feb. 1912 pp.
53 54.
 r urn Animal Behavior Vol.
2 No.
3 MayJune 1912 p. 207.
 Oconomowoc Forest and Stream 8 No.
20 June 21 1S77 p. 320.
Journ.
Asiatic Soc.
Bengal 65 1896 1897 pp.
4248.
Natural Science December 1892.
33 They deal chiefly with the East African lizards Mabuia striata and Hemidactylus mabuia.
Several presumably distasteful insects were refused by these species.
They refused wood lice also which were eaten however by Gerrhosaurus major.
Experiments to determine the tastes of Calotes were also performed by R. C. Punnett in Ceylon.
34 Punnett concludes that the lizard tested in confinement by him showed no discrimination in the choice of various adult Lepidoptera offered.
The presumably distasteful Danais was eaten before the presumably palatable Euschema or Mijcalesis and the socalled distasteful Euplcea was taken before the supposedly palatable Junonia iphita of not very dissimilar coloration.
Nor was any hesitation manifested towards Papilio aristolochice with its postulated evil taste and marked warning coloration p. 13.
Punnett also found the larvae of the lastnamed insect as well as an adult Danais plexippus were eaten by another lizard Lyriocephalus.
From such experiments as these one can hardly fail to draw the conclusion that Calotes as well as Lyriocephalus will readily eat anything in the way of butterflies that they come across.
Nor is this surprising in view of the fact that such noxious creatures as the large ant CEcophylla smaragdina and hairy caterpillars constitute a considerable proportion of the contents of their stomachs.
They certainly do not appear to exercise that nice discrimination with regard to butterflies which is necessary for the establishment of mimicking forms on the theory of natural selection p. 13.
Lieut.
Col. Neville Manders also performed experiments with lizards 35 in Ceylon using the following species Calotes versicolor C. ophiomachus C. nigrilabris C. zeylanica and Ceratophora stoddarti.
The last two species are smaller than the others and would not try to eat butterflies either when caged or free.
The experiments with free specimens of the other three species resulted as follows Lepidoptera classed as edible All Lepidoptera classed as nauseous A 17 R 3.
Manders says one of the latter was at first refused because of large size then partly eaten and the other two were too dry.
He further states that so long as the butterflies remained perfectly still they were entirely unnoticed by the lizards though they might be in close proximity to them p. 708.
This indicates that  No.
10 pp.
746 747.
Spolia zeylanica VII Pt.
XXV September 1910 pp.
12 13.'
35 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1911 pp.
707710.
20 color is not the stimulus to capture but that motion is.
Manders concludes It would seem that those who assume that reptiles take no part in the production of Batesian or Mullerian mimicry are correct though further experiments are required p. 710.
Experiments in Europe.
A series of experiments by H. Eltringham with Lacerta viridishave as their main point the demonstration that a certain lepidopterous larva Boarmia rhomboidaria  was more distasteful to the captive lizards when it had fed on ivy than when fed on apple.
In addition a number of other insects and other invertebrates were used in the experiments.
No general conclusions are given.
Possible comparisons with Poulton's tables of experiments 1887 are as follows  Poulton's tables 1887.
Eltringham.
Animal tested.
Pieris brassicce larva R. A 4 D. Lacerta viridis.
Apis mellifera A many.
R. Later Eltringham says that the caterpillars referred to in his previous experiments are not Boarmia rhomboidaria but Odontoptera bidentata.
The adult moths were eaten by lizards to which they were fed by Messrs. Eltringham and Pocock.
The latter found that they were acceptable also to a bird Graculifera melanoptera.
Eltringham concludes that the distastefulness of the larvse was not intrinsic but due to the character of the food in their digestive tracts.
37 Plateau states 38 that seven Cistudo europaa ignored the caterpillar of Abraxas grossulariata while one tried and rejected it.
Coluber eesculapii and Lacerta muralis disregarded the larvae and rejected them when placed in their mouths.
Experiments in America.
Few experimental tests of the efficiency of the protective adaptations of insects have been made in the United States.
The most important series hitherto published in full was performed by Annie H. Pritchett and was reported in the Biological Bulletin Vol.
5 pp.
271287 1903.
The animals used were Sceloporus floridanus Gerrhonotus infernalis Crotaphijtus collaris Cnemidophorus sexli36 Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1909 pp.
471478.
37 Edibility of Lepidopterous Larvse Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1910 pp.
xxxixxxii.. 38 Mem.
de la Soc.
Zool.
de France VII 1894 p. 383. neatus Eumeces sp. and Phrynosoma cornutum.
A large variety of invertebrates were offered the lizards with the following principal results a Only one instance of a lizard eating a dead insect 6 insects that move slowly do not attract the attention of the lizard so much as do the more active forms hence those that remain quiescent are rarely even attacked c insects below a certain size are apparently not perceived by the large species of lizards d large beetles having hard elytra are seldom eaten e the myriapod Julus was not eaten by any lizard   although the combinations of black and yellow black and orange or black and red are supposed to serve the purpose of warning coloration all insects possessing these colors were at one time or another eaten with the possible exceptions of Panorpa nuptialis Gerst.
and a malodorous Lygseid bug.
Some experiments with Sceloporus undulatus by Dr. S. D. Judd which have never been published may now be put on record for purposes of comparison with the series just noted.
The results of these tests follow Orthoptera  Blattid.e  Stylopyga orientalis black A 2 Mantide  Stagomantis Carolina dark brown R Locustidb  Microcentvum sp.
green R Gryllide  Gryllus sp.
dark brown A 3 Coleoptera Carabide  Carabida
undet.
A Harpalus pennsylvanicus black A Scarites subterraneus black R Coccinellide  Coccinella sp.
warning colors R 2 Hippodamia sp.
warning colors R Adalia sp.
warning colors D Epilachna borealis yellow and black A Dermestide  Dermestes sp.
nearly black above white below A LampyridjE  Chauliognathus sp.
warning colors R Scarabeide  Ligyrus sp.
reddishbrown R 2 Lachnostema sp.
reddishbrown R 2 Chrysomelid.e  Leptinotarsa decemlineata vellow and black R2 Diabrotica sp A Heteroptera all strong smelling  Pentatomide  Brochymena sp R Nezara hilaris green R Reduviide  Arilus cristatus redbrown wings with bronzed tips R Lepidoptera Arctiid.e  Hyphantria cunea 1.
yellow brown and black very hairy .. A 2 R2 Liparid.e  Orgyia leucostigma 1.
red black white and yellow hairy tufted R 2 Diptera Muscidje  Calliphora erythrocephala metallic blue D Sceloporus floridanus and S. undulatus are very close relatives hence so far as the lizards are concerned comparsions between the two sets of experiments are not farfetched.
Unfortunately the insects offered have nothing more than the genus in common and that in only a few cases.
However the comparisons possible on this basis are given Pritchett.
Judd.
Brochymena D R Chauliognathus A 24 R 2 R Harpalus A 3 D 4 A Gryllus A 5 A3 Summing up Judd's experiments we have the following results A.
Protected  group 39 4  Nonprotected  group 8 Evidently these Sceloporus were hard to please accepting barely more than a third of all the insects offered 66 per cent of the individuals of protected species were refused and 52 per cent of the nonprotected group.
Dr. S. Lockwood briefly records 40 the food habits of the Florida chameleon Anolis principalis in captivity.
The lizards ate flies and spiders but would not take the potato beetle Leptinotarsa decemlineata  and in fact were not fond of beetles at all.'
Dr. Lockwood cites an observation by Bell that a pet Anolis catching an Epeira diadema by the leg was bitten by its captive and death soon ensued.
MAMMALS.
Finn records 41 brief experiments with an East African mongoose Crossarchus fasciatus.
This animal refused one specimen of a frog Xenopus Icevis and ate and vomited another.
It ate and 39 That is those warninglv colored or otherwise specially defended.
40 Am.
Nat. 10 1876 pp.
7 8.
41 Natural Science I No.
10 December 4892 pp.
746747.
R. D 10 1 10 1 vomited parts of a lizard Mabuia striata but the lizard was nevertheless entirely eaten.
The mongoose was unwilling to eat birds and refused to attack a conspicuous milliped Spirobolus.
An obscurely colored milliped also was refused by a lemur Galago.
Another of Finn's experiments concerning the tastes of mammals for insects deals with a treeshrew Tupaia ferruginea.
42 The conclusion is It is obvious that this animal had a very strong objection to the 'protected' Danainse and Papilio aristolochice as it.
so constantly refused them p. 532.
This is a fair summary of the experiment except as it applies to Papilio aristolochice the record for which was A 2 R2.
Marshall and Poulton have published 43 accounts of experiments with a mongoose Herpestes galera baboons and a monkey Cercopithecus pygerythrus .
The mongoose tested by Marshall pp.
376378 refused but one insect consistently and had only two trials with that.
The animal was tested with birds as food and refused five out of ten kinds offered.
Two of the five refused have colors of the type called warning and this is peg enough upon which to hang some speculations as to distastefulness.
Nothing is said about the equally conspicuous colors of two of the species eaten viz. Nettopus auritus blackishgreen white and rufous and Saxicola pileata chestnut black and white.
The results of single trials of several insects with Cercopithecus pygerythrus are recorded on p. 379 and pp.
380392 are devoted to an account and dtscussion of more extended experiments with baboons.
Poulton tabulates the Coleoptera accepted and rejected by the baboons and from these tabulations it appears that about 75 per cent of the beetles rejected had warning color patterns as did about 55 per cent of those accepted.
It is unfortunate that there are no records of the natural food of these African mammals that can be used as a check on the experimental results.
MIXED GROUPS OF ANIMALS.
Brief notes on experiments with a marmoset and lizards are included in E. B. Poulton's description of the means of defence adopted by the larva of Stauropus fagi and the defensive value of 'tussocks' of Orgyia and the associated black intersegmental markings.
44 i2 Journ.
Asiatic Soc.
Bengal 66 1897 1898 pp.
528532.
43 Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1902 pp.
376392.
44 Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1888 pp.
581588 and 589591.
We are told that when at rest the larva of Stauropus fagi resembles a withered beech leaf.
Next it is stated that the second and third pairs of thoracic legs are so held that they resemble in the most beautiful manner a bunch of brown scales the stipules of the foliage leaves which enclose the buds of the beech and hang down after the latter are unfolded.
As if withered beech leaves thus adorned were common during the life of this larva and as if beech were the only food plant of the larvae.
As a matter of fact Stauropus feeds on the foliage of several other woody plants.
When aroused the larva is said by Poulton to assume a terrifying attitude the main suggestion of which is a spiderlike creature.
It is rather amusing to contemplate the variety of resemblances claimed for Stauropus larvae.
For instance Poulton himself ten years later insists upon an entirely different resemblance from those above mentioned.
He then says The young larvae of Stauropus fagi have often been described as resembling ants.
The likeness has recently been analyzed in much detail by Portschinski Coloration marquante et Taches ocellees V St. Petersburg 1897 p. 44.
This acute observer considers that the head of the larva represents the globular abdomen of the ant while the head and antennae of the latter are suggested by the larval caudal shield with its two appendages.
He believes the disturbed larva represents an ant which has seized and is endeavoring to carry off some object on the branch which it is exploring During the present summer of 1898 I have had the opportunity of studying these larvae.
The young larvae were thought to be ants by all the friends to whom they were shown.
One lady considered that they were 'double ants'  an interpretation evidently due to their disproportionate length and to the headlike appearance of the caudal shield.
45 Birchall 46 states that the young larva closely resembles a twig of beech with unopened buds and that when feeding its likeness to a great earwig or to a Staphylinus is very striking.
He also remarks upon the general suggestion of a crustacean in the larva's aspect but he further desires to speak doubtfully of the sharp eyes of a bird or Ichneumon being de'ceived when engaged in its own special business by any such colorable imitation p. 233.
Mrs. Bazett 47 notes the great resemblance that the newly hatched 45 Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond. Zoology Vol.
XXVI 1898 pp.
589 590.
46 Ent.
Monthly Mag. XIII 1877 p. 231.
47 Enl.
Rec.
II 1891 p. 210. larva bears to an ant while Kirby 48 says it is from the extraordinary appearance of the larva that the species derives its name of lobster moth.
Thus the larva of Stauropus is supposed to mimic more or less closely objects in both the vegetable and the animal kingdoms and within the limits of the latter representatives of five orders not to mention ants carrying prey nor double ants belonging to no fewer than three classes of the phylum Arthropoda.
It is evident that the predaceous foes of Stauropus had they only the imaginative powers of its human observers could have a banquet of many diverse courses each of which would be merely Stauropus in disguise.
Poulton says I should not however have ventured to speak so plainly of the meaning of the various details in the defensive attitude of the larva if I had not been able to rely upon the best support attainable  the support yielded by direct experiment.
49 He would have been approximately correct if he had said the poorest support attainable but let us see what the support is.
A marmoset and a lizard were offered one Stauropus larva each they showed caution in attack but each ate the larva.
Rather a slender basis one would say for four pages of argument on the special defence of the creature.
The continuation of the argument  defence against insect enemies  is even more farfetched.
When irritated the larva displays black patches on certain segments and Poulton thinks it is clear that the black marks exposed by the larva are calculated to suggest to the approaching enemy parasite that the individual larva in question is already occupied.
Superparasitism is too common an occurrence to warrant the belief that parasitic insects are warned away by any visible signs of preoccupation.
The tussock moths Orgyia antiqua and 0. pudibunda are supposed to be protected by the fine hairs of the tussocks which come out easily in immense numbers.
Poulton says This interpretation is entirely due to experiment.
A larva of 0. antiqua was introduced into a lizard's cage and when attacked instantly assumed the defensive attitude.
An unwary lizard seized the apparently feasible part of the larva most of the tussock came out in its mouth and the lizard seemed greatly troubled by the fine hairs and did not touch the larva again p. 590.
An Orgyia pudibunda larva was killed but not eaten by another lizard.
48 The Butterflies and Moths of Europe 1903 p. 46.
49 Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1888 p. 585.
The results of most of the earlier experiments with various animals are brought together by Prof. E. B. Poulton in a paper entitled The Experimental Proof of the Protective Value of Color and Markings in Insects with Reference to their Vertebrate Enemies Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1887 pp.
191274.
It is convenient to review these experiments collectively.
Those covered by Poulton are as follows  Butler A. G. Remarks upon certain Caterpillars etc. which are Unpalatable to their Enemies.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond.. 1S69 pp.
2729.
Animals experimented with were Lacerta viridis frogs and spiders.
In part previouslv published in Ent.
Monthly Mag. .5 1868 pp.
131 132.
Poulton E. B. Diary of observations during 1886.
P. Z. S.
Lond. 1887 pp.
269274. 
Using Lacerta muralis L. viridis and Hyla arbor ea.
The earlier sketch of some of the results of these experiments is Some experiments upon the protection of insects from their enemies by means of an unpleasant taste or smell.
Rep. British A.
A. S. 1886 1887 pp.
694 695.
Weir J. Jenner.
On Insects and Insectivorous Birds and especially on the relation between the Color and the Edibility of Lepidoptera and their Larva.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1869 pp.
2126.
The birds used were seven species of finches one weaver bird one muscicapid one pipit and one thrush.
Few of them are highly insectivorous species.
Weir J. J.
Further Observations on the relation between Color and the Edibility of Lepidoptera and their Larvae.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1870 pp.
337339.
Birds used as in his previous experiments.
Weir J. J. Diary of observations during 1886.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1887 pp.
268 269.
Experiments with lizards Lacerta viridis L. agilis and Zootoca vivipara.
Weismann A.
Studies in the Theory of Descent.
London.
1882 Vol.
I pp.
328341.
Principally experiments with Lacerta viridis.
The main burden of the first half of Poulton's paper is the searching of the results of these experiments for support of Wallace's original suggestion 'that brilliant or conspicuous larva
would be found to be refused by their enemies' p. 196.
In the preliminary sketch 50 60 Rep. British A.
A. S. 1886 1887 p. 694. of his own experiments Poulton says Wallace had predicted that brilliantly colored and conspicuous insects would be refused by the ordinary vertebrate enemies of their class.
This statement which was a bull from the very beginning inasmuch as we cannot reckon as enemies of an insect those animals that refuse to eat it is wrongly stated by Poulton in both of the above cases.
Wallace's original suggestion as reported in Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
London 1867 p. lxxxi is that as a rule the brilliantly colored larvse were those which were distasteful to birds.
Poulton further twists this in his table headings to a suggestion that brilliant and conspicuous larvae would be refused by some at least of their enemies a much later modification of Wallace's statement.
However this later claim would be admitted without argument did we accept Poulton's usage of the term enemies as including practically all insectivorous animals.
Even if there were no other factors involved the relative sizes of the larva
and of various insectivorous animals in themselves establish limits to the number of predators upon a certain form thus numerous large larvse will be free from attacks of all but a small proportion of insectivorous foes.
Very small larva on the other hand will be overlooked by many predators.
That is considerations entirely aside from coloration will limit the number of enemies of any given form.
It is evident that all vertebrates cannot be enemies of the same insect enemies and prey form indefinite groups that intermesh in a multitude of combinations.
Consequently an insect cannot be said to be protected because certain vertebrates more or less ignore it when they perhaps have no opportunity and certainly in many cases no necessity for feeding on it in the wild state.
Poulton first tabulates the results of experiments with eighteen species of undoubtedly conspicuous larvse and concludes The first and obvious result of the first table is with only one entirely antagonistic exception the most complete demonstration of the truth of Wallace's suggestion that a highly conspicuous appearance would be found to be accompanied by some unpleasant attribute p. 205.
Upon close inspection of this table we find there are two not one species that are not shown to be distasteful to any animal namely Deilephila euphorbice and Lasiocampa pini eight not refused by anything are included because they were disregarded by birds.
The writer has explained above why disregard cannot be accepted as a test at all.
The inadvisability of so doing is shown by the fact that at least three of these eight species of larvse namely Orgy in antiqua Cucullia verbasci 51 and Hybernia defoliaria are known to be eaten by British wild birds.
The other eight species included in the table comprise three others disregarded by caged birds two of which are also eaten by British wild birds.
These eight however were used chiefly in experiments with lizards and four of them were accepted as well as refused upon trial.
Of the four only refused one Porthesia auriflua was eaten by hungry lizards in Poulton's experiments of 1887.
52 Another Pieris brassicce was eaten more often than refused in Pocock's experiments reviewed later and a third which was rejected by frogs and lizards is known to be eaten by nestlings of Parus major.
Exception may be taken to remarks about some of the species listed in this table.
For instance Jeilephila euphorbia
was eaten by a captive lizard and Newman says seagulls and terns devour them in numbers.
We may add to the list of enemies the mausebussard on the authority of Schuster.
53 Poulton's comment on this larvae is The correlation of a startling appearance with some unpleasant attribute must probably have existed once if not now.
Have we a case in which hunger or opportunity have caused the enemies to neglect the latter and therefore to benefit by the former 
p. 199.
We cannot so conclude unless we admit also that similar warning coloration D. euphorbia
is black red and yellow or white would lose its meaning admitting for the purposes of argument that it has a meaning to the same enemies in all other cases.
It is of interest to note that Hybernia defoliaria included in this table because disregarded by captive birds was found in the stomachs of three species of British birds by Robert Newstead.
54 Schuster I. c. records many species of birds as enemies of this larva as well as of H. brumata.
Table II includes four larvae which only become conspicuous when approached and detected one is not shown to be unpalatable to anything one was both eaten and refused by lizards and another was eaten by at least two species of birds and avoided without trial by two or more other species.
The fourth species was refused by lizards and poultry but eaten by nestling great tits.
One of the larvae listed in this table has been made the basis of some 61 See particularly the note Do birds eat the larvae of Cucullia
by H. D'Orville Entomologists' Monthly Mag. VI June 1869 p. 16.
52 Rep. British A.
A. S. 1887 1888 p. 764.
63 Ent.
Bl.
Niirnberg 5 Nr.
7 July 15 1909. i4 Suppl.
Jour.
Bd.
Agr.
Bond. XV No.
9 December 1908. of the most farfetched theorizing imaginable.
Chcerocampa elpenor is its name When approached the anterior part of the body is distended and resembles a serpentlike head of the cobra type p. 206.
In Weismann's experiments A tame jay ate the larva at once sparrows and chaffinches wild were frightened by it and would not come near a seed trough in which it was placed fowls were evidently frightened but in the end cautiously attacked it when it was soon eaten.
Lady Verney notes that small birds would not come near a tray with crumbs on it on which the larva had been placed p. 206.
The larva of Chcerocampa is a large one the ocellated spots are present only in last stage if so useful why is this the case
and its size alone is sufficient to explain the actions of the small birds.
In the case of the sparrows at least almost any strange object of the same size might cause the same reaction.
Anything new about their regular haunts is viewed with suspicion.
In regard to the Cobralike appearance of Chcerocampa Poulton says It is likely that the terrifying appearance of our own larvae probably first arose in the tropics where the imitated cause of alarm to the enemies of the larvae is real and obvious.
And it is probable that the success of the same method in countries where the reptilian fauna cannot be said to constitute a source of alarm is due to the inherited memories of a tropical life which live on as that instinctive fear of anything snakelike which is so commonly exhibited by the higher land vertebrates including ourselves p. 204.
What a characteristic piece of selectionist reasoning
 at least four very debatable biological propositions namely the tropical origin of the European fauna its origin in a part of the tropics having cobras and instinctive fear in man and other vertebrates are practically taken as established facts.
Aside from these assumptions the argument is very amusing also when contrasted with that insisted upon by selectionists in a hundred places that birds have no instinctive knowledge of what is suitable for food but must learn by experience.
If an instinct of cobra fear is present in birds whose remote ancestors may possibly have seen cobras it would seem that instinct about such an everyday matter as food were not a point to strain at.
However it is obvious that both arguments cannot well be supported by any but the exceedingly versatile.
Table III includes seven not inconspicuous larva
which are not nocturnal and which do not conceal themselves.
Two are not shown to be unpalatable to anything and four are included on the basis of disregard by birds or lizards at least two of which are eaten by wild birds.
While the remaining one was refused by three species of birds and disregarded by others it also is eaten by wild birds.
Table IV presents the results for  brightcolored or conspicuous insects other than larvae.
It deals with fifteen forms four of which are not shown to be distasteful to any animal two are included on the basis of disregard only and four were accepted and refused by the same class of enemies.
One of the remaining five i.e. Anthrocera filipendula imago refused by lizards in these experiments was eaten by lizards in the 1887 experiments I.e..
Concerning another insect of this group namely Abraxas grossulariata  Poulton notes p. 220 his opinion that Butler's record of frogs eating the moth must be a mistake.
It is noteworthy however that he uses others of Butler's records without question.
Butler later affirmed the correctness of his note and showed that the same insect is taken by some birds.
Tables IIV deal with fortyfour insects nine or 17 per cent. of which are not shown to be distasteful to any animal another nine were both accepted and rejected by the same classof enemies.
Eighteen were either disregarded or rejected by birds and at least nine of these are known to be eaten by wild British birds.
We have pointed out above inconsistencies of some of the other cases with other experiments.
In fact as may be seen on p. 313 in seven out of eight possible direct comparisons of these experiments with those of Pocock the only other extensive series using British insects the results are inconsistent.
Eight of the insects of the distasteful groups in these tabulations were fed to hungry lizards in experiments performed by Poulton in 1887 55 and all were accepted.
The behavior of the lizards in the cases reported contrasts.
strongly with that shown in the previous experiments as shown in the following table of comparisons.
Birds 1886.
1887.
Orgyia antiqua larva D A Vanessa urticce pupa R A Lizards  Euchelia jacobw 1 A 2 R4 D A Pygcera bucephala 1 A3 R3 D A Porthesia auriflua 1 R2 A Anthrocer a filipendula ad R A Abraxas grossulariata 1 Al R7 D2 A  Further Experiments upon the Protective Value of Color and Markings in Insects Rep. British A. A.S. 1887 1888 pp.
763765.
These experiments dealing with frogs lizards and a marmoset and including a few of A. G. Butler's notes on birds are not reported in full.
Hence they are not reviewed.
Progs Croesus septentrionalis 1 A A Thus it appears that these experiments are inconsistent among themselves and from the fact that at least fifteen of the fortyfour insects alleged to have been proved distasteful by the experiments are known to be eaten by wild British birds we are justified in suspecting that the experimental results do not accurately indicate behavior under natural conditions.
A fifth table by Poulton comprises the results of experiments with insects which are protectively colored or which evade their enemies by other means.
On the theory therefore all of these insects should be eaten freely by insectivorous animals.
However in sixteen out of sixtyeight cases more than 23 per cent. 56 the evidences of distaste are fully as strong as in the majority of the cases in the first four tables.
Taking this fact in connection with that previously adduced to the effect that 17 per cent of the  protected insects were not shown to be unpalatable to anything and the additional fact that sixteen out of the fortyfour or 36 per cent. were included on the basis of disregard some of them being eaten also it is quite clear that the insects etc. were sorted out into the various tables in accordance with the requirements of the theory experimental evidence to the contrary notwithstanding.
If authors are not consistent in the interpretation of the results of experiments how can they expect others to have faith in them
Poulton tries to explain the refusals of certain protectively colored imago Lepidoptera for instance with regard to Vanessa urticce he says p. 246  I have no doubt that the refusal of some frogs was due to scales only and of Pieris brassicce eaten readily by all lizards but not much relished I believe because of the mechanical difficulty of the scales and wings and not from being actually unpalatable.
We cannot accept these explanations which no doubt are true without asking that they be made to cover the refusals of all adult Lepidoptera of proper size for the animal experimented with.
This would affect four species of Table IV and seven in Table V. We find Poulton later regarding P. brassicai as intrinsically unpalatable P. Z. S. 1911 pp.
864 865.
The inconspicuous larvae of Mania typica were tasted and rejected by Lacerta muralis Poulton's comment is At first sight a most 56 This does not take into account earthworms and fly larvse which were rejected as well as refused although the fact is not stated in the table.
startling difficulty yet it is evident from the behavior of the lizards that they fully expected the larva to be palatable in itself a strong confirmation of the suggestion that nearly all such larvae are palatable p. 243.
This is another argument that cannot be accepted unless it is also applied to the rejections of conspicuous larvae upon trial and this latter evidence rather than disregard is all the experiments yield that is worth any consideration.
In fact if impartially applied this argument would do away with the experimental evidence of the efficacy of warning colors in all cases in which the insects were tasted before refusal.
In other words it would be just as fair to presume that these conspicuous larvae also were expected to be palatable in itself a strong confirmation of the suggestion that nearly all such larvae are palatable.
The experiments performed by R. I. Pocock Superintendent of the London Zoological Gardens like those just reviewed cover a variety of vertebrate orders.
A far larger number of species both of predators and prey were used than in any other experiments yet recorded.
The captive animals included twentysix species of mammals ninetysix of birds and seven of lizards of which only six birds and one lizard occur naturally in England.
The insects used were of course chiefly native.
Even if we believe that experimental results have any value as indicating natural behavior we can only conclude that the conditions of these experiments invalidate the findings for of what possible value can it be to know the likes and dislikes of exotic animals for British insects
The account of these experiments is in P. Z. S.
Lond. 1911 pp.
809864.
Mr. Pocock thinks his experimental results have an important bearing upon the criticism sometimes advanced against the theory of warning coloration and mimicry as applied to butterflies namely that birds under natural conditions are seldom seen to eat these insects.
Hence it has been inferred that birds cannot be reckoned as serious enemies of butterflies.
Whatever may be the explanation of the circumstance Pocock says I am tolerably sure from the behavior of the two classes of animals when pitted against one another that the inference drawn therefrom is erroneous.
The insectivorous birds in our aviaries seemed to know at once what the butterflies were they were on the alert the moment one was liberated and pursued it with determination and precision following its every turn and twist and either catching it upon the wing or pouncing upon it after settling.
It is true that this predatory deftness may have been acquired in relation to the chase of insects other than Lepidoptera but unless the birds recognized butterflies in general  a group which cannot be mistaken for other insects  as part of their natural prey it is difficult to understand their eager excitement at the sight of those I offered them p. 81 1.
57 Before quoting further let us look into this argument a little it is characteristic of the selectionist style.
He is very charitable in admitting that predatory deftness may have been acquired in chasing other insects than butterflies.
A little reflection will convince anyone be he ignorant or not concerning the important constitutents of bird food that butterflies even if eaten can furnish but a small percentage of bird food namely an amount proportional to their numbers among diurnal insects as a whole.
Hence a correspondingly small amount of training in predatory deftness can possibly have been acquired from capturing them.
Pocock finds it difficult to understand the eager excitement of the birds at the sight of Lepidoptera unless they recognized them as such this after telling us on the preceding page of the exceeding keenness of the birds for the insects brought to them.
This was no doubt due in a measure to our inability in the Gardens to feed the birds on living insects other than mealworms.
Caged canaries sometimes become frantically excited when a grasshopper or other insect is held up to the bars of their cage they may never have seen an insect in their life before they only know there is something they want.
Pocock's parenthetical expression concerning Lepidoptera  a group which cannot be mistaken for other insects  directly opposes many arguments by selectionists relative to the resemblances of Sesiidse to Hymenoptera but any argument to establish the present point without reference to its bearing on other phases of the theory is a longstanding rule among selectionists.
Continuing his argument Pocock says Again unless the species of butterflies used for the experiments are or were in the past habitually preyed upon by birds 57 whence comes the extraordinary skill the liberated specimens .... displayed in dodging the swoop of birds in midair
Having repeatedly seen the aim of the pursuing bird baffled by the evasive twist of the butterfly I cannot doubt that the insect's behavior was prompted by the instinct to escape an habitual enemy of its species of the same class and with the same predatory methods p. 811.
57 It is worth pointing out that the disciple is here arguing directly against one of the cardinal teachings of the master as Poulton iterates and reiterates acceptance is not proof of palatability Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1902 pp.
436 317 348 and 389.
Suppose a different experiment were performed  let some muskrats i Fiber be put into an aquarium with some sealions  would their efforts to escape indicate previous experience in evading enemies of the same class
Not at all it would indicate merely adaptation to expert progression in the same medium.
The relations of birds in general to bats and of birds again in general to dragonflies are instances illustrating the same fact but which are due to no general predatory relation between the groups.
The wonderful powers of flight of many of the Syrphida
are strictly comparable to that of butterflies as the adults feed only at flowers and have no need of expert flight for predatory purposes also they do not need it so highly developed for defense for rather a small proportion of birds are capable of catching insects so expert on the wing.
The extreme rapidity and dexterity of flight of hummingbirds has no possible relation to their prey nor need it have been developed to its present perfection to evade species that might be inclined to prey upon hummers.
When Mr. Pocock arrives at the true reason for the extraordinary powers of flight of hummingbirds he will undoubtedly be less insistent upon the predatorevasion theory as an explanation of the tortuous flight of butterflies.
58 Pocock further says Those who hold on the negative evidence above stated that birds are not to be reckoned as serious enemies of butterflies must be called upon to supply some explanation other than that above proposed of the marked reactions between these two classes of animals when brought into contact with one another and to show reason why what takes place in the aviary may not be regarded as indicative of similar occurrences in nature p. 812.
The pertinent retort to this statement is that it is the selectionists who first claimed and who still claim that birds are important enemies of butterflies and it is up to them to produce real evidence in favor of their contention.
So far they have brought forward little except results of experiments.
Pocock's own results namely the consumption of large numbers of British insects by exotic animals should have convinced him that what takes place in the aviary may not necessarily be regarded as indicative of similar occurrences in nature.
The point may be further illustrated by the following.
Suppose a 5S It is a matter of common observation that butterflies constantly exercise their powers of flight by playing with other butterflies even of different species.
They often dart at falling leaves flying bits of paper and even birds.
The writer saw March 27 1912 Plummer's Id. Md.
a Vanessa antiopa dash at and come within a few inches of a phcebe Sayornis that had just perched after one of its customary quick sallies at insect prey.
The bird a highly insectivorous species paid no attention to the butterfly.
man has fired his last shot ineffectually at a charging tiger or rhinoceros he naturally shows a marked reaction by taking to his heels not because he or his ancestors have had similar experiences but because he can run.
So with the butterflies skilful efforts to escape do not necessarily indicate previous racial experience of the same nature.
The principal failing of the selectionists always has been a vast ignorance of what wild birds really eat.
They have made very little effort to acquire such knowledge and their speculations throughout show the lack of it.
Practically the only large body of authentic information on the natural food habits of birds is contained in the records of the United States Biological Survey.
They comprise detailed identifications of the contents of more than 48000 bird stomachs representing all families of birds and collected in hundreds of localities in the United States at all seasons.
The United States has a goodly representation of butterflies yet only five of these 48000 stomachs contained remains of Rhopalocera.
It is hoped this will be more satisfactory to the selectionists than the  negative evidence they are accustomed to cite with contempt.
The extreme artificiality of Pocock's experiments and the inapplicability of the results to the natural relations of British birds and insects are so evident that it is not worth while to comment on the details.
A few comparisons of the results with those of experiments recorded by Poulton are of interest as showing the inconsistency inter se of experiments.
It has not been possible to collect a large number of such comparisons because Poulton's experiments were chiefly with lizards and few with birds while the opposite is true of Pocock's.
The varying stages in which the insects were presented also tend to limit comparisons.
The table includes all possible direct comparisons and only one pair in eight shows real correlation.
Birds Poulton.
Pocock.
Vanessa urticai larva D A 7 R 4 D 1  pupa R A 2 R 2 D 1 Clisiocampa neustria larva D A 1 Euchelia jacobaz ad A A 1 R 4 Cosmotricha potatoria larva D A 1 R 4 D 1 Anthrocera filipendula ad.
A R 4 Lizards Apis mellifera worker A R 3 Pieris rapw ad A 20 A 2 Notes on Pocock's experiments by Prof. E. B. Poulton are given 21 on pp.
864868 and show his customary facility in drawing conclusions satisfactory to himself from the most refractory evidence.
For instance he says The experiments on the Pierince support the conclusion that the perfection of the under surface procryptic resemblance affords a true criterion of the degree of palatability.
Pieris brassicce with its conspicuous gregarious larva and imago larger and less cryptically colored than the other three species .... was distinctly the least palatable pp.
864 865.
The records of acceptances and rejections of the three species of Pieris are as follows Pieris rapce A 10 R 2 a proportion of 5 to 1  Pieris brassicce A 40 R 33 1 to 1 and Pieris napi A 8 R 8 1 to 1 P. napi thus being the least favored in the experiments.
These figures are reproduced not because the point as to relative palatability is of any importance especially as an indication of natural preferences but merely to show that the experimental results are not accurately judged by those most interested in them.
It is of interest to compare Pocock's results with Pieris brassicce with those obtained by Dr. G. Rorig in Germany.
Pocock records the pupae of this insect as A 1 R 8 D 3 and the adult as A 16 R 7 D 1 while Dr. Rorig says 59 The pups
of the Kohlweisling were eagerly torn open by all the titmice  and the adults were always freely eaten by all the birds which I have tested.
Poulton bases considerable speculation upon the unpalatability of Araschnia levana the record for which in the experiments is A 20 R 10.
He follows this with a page of theorizing on the probable mimicry of Melitcea by Hesperia and says that the experimental results as a whole leave little doubt that Melitcea is distasteful to many birds and that it does actually possess the qualtities which would render it an advantageous model for the Hesperiidse p. 867.
As a matter of fact the experiments with birds and Melitcea described on pp.
826 and 827 show that it was finally refused by only one bird it was eaten by thirteen species seven species of which took nine specimens without hesitation.
Two birds which dropped the first specimen offered them later took one and two respectively including those dropped.
The final record for birds is A 18 R 1.
If this is considered proof that Melitcea is advantageous as a model the demands of the theory are most modest.
On p. 867 he also refers to Melanargia as a highly distasteful genus  its record in the experiments is A 14 R 4.
Another extract from Arb.
Biol.
Abt.
f. Land.
Forstwirts.
K. Gesundheitsamte 4 1903 p. 47.
Poulton's remarks is Although so many insectivorous animals in confinement disregarded the special defence of Formica rufa there can be little doubt that such defence is very effective in the wild state.
It is impossible on any other hypothesis to account for the conditions under which the species exists swarming in vast numbers in restricted areas and an easy prey to any enemy that would dare to attack p. 868.
Here we have a case where experimental results are not in accord with the theory and it is evident that it is so much the worse for the experiments.
Where the evidence is of a supporting nature experiments are extolled to the skies.
Pocock who tries to stick consistently to the experimental results which for Formica rufa were an indefinite number of acceptances and no rejections by a monkey A 13 R by birds and two refusals by lizards says 'The unavoidable conclusion that these insects are palatable is rather surprising in view of the frequency with which ants are mimicked in the tropics p. 849.
In deeming it impossible for the ants to live as at present unless specially defended Poulton takes the struggle for existence too seriously.
In fact he seems to think all gregarious insects must be specially protected thus overlooking periodical cicadas migratory locusts cankerworms armyworms etc. which usually occur in large numbers and are eagerly attacked by a great variety of insectivorous foes.
Poulton further remarks It was also apparent in many of the experiments that the unpalatability of conspicuous Lepidoptera was .... far more obvious to the birds than the mammals.
In view of the part which birds are believed to play in the production of mimetic resemblances it is obvious that this inference may be highly significant p. 868.
The writer has tabulated the acceptances and rejections for mammals and birds including only those Lepidoptera which were refused by some species and the result is mammals A 19 R 10 or about 34 per cent refused and birds A 112 R 80 or about 41 per cent refused.
Hardly enough difference to warrant the comment quoted.
A very interesting series of experiments with frogs lizards birds and mammals upon a good variety of insects and other invertebrates as subjects were performed by Beddard and Finn at the London Zoological Gardens and recorded by the former in his volume entitled Animal Coloration 1892 pp.
149166.
Mr. Beddard's principal conclusions are as follows It is quite clear from these experiments that insects which exhibit warning colors are by no means always exempt from attack.
The opinions of insecteating il u it iC u mammals birds and reptiles appear to vary as to the edibility of this or that insect But these experiments do show that very generally though not always a disagreeable taste is associated with a conspicuous and varied coloration.
On the other hand precisely the same deductions can be drawn by watching the behavior of animals when offered inconspicuously colored insects p. 155.
As in previous cases we will give the direct comparisons that can be made between these and other sets of experiments.
Four out of seven contrasted pairs are contradictory.
Poulton's Tables Animals 1887.
Beddard.
tested.
Armadillo vulgaris A A 2 Lacerta viridis.
Lithobius forficatus A R Pieris brassicce 1 R A 5 R 2 D 1 Lizards.
Abraxas grossulariata 1...A 1R7D2 R1D2 Vespa vulgaris D A 2 Euchelia jacobce 1 A 2R4 A1R3D1 Pocock 1911.
Beddard.
Pieris brassicce 1 A 20 R 18 A 2 D 1 Birds.
Beddard justly remarks p. 166 None of these experiments are thoroughly satisfactory it is so difficult to interpret them and they are often contradictory for a bird will eat one day what it has refused before.
The experiments that have been made are like most other statistics  they may be made to prove anything.
A careful series of observations upon the contents of the stomachs of wild birds would be the nearest approach to a satisfactory solution of the difficulty but there are obvious objections to this mode of investigation.
Fortunately this objectionable method has been pursued to some extent in England i.e. by Newstead and to a slight degree the work serves as a check on experiments with British birds and insects.
Beddard gave an earwig to a green woodpecker which made a great deal of fuss over it but ended by swallowing it Newstead found these insects in two stomachs of green woodpeckers one of which contained 23.
60 Merely for the sake of completeness the very brief notes upon experiments by Thomas Belt 61 may be given here A tame whitefaced monkey always killed but did not eat Heliconii pp.
316 317.
60 Suppl.
Journ.
Bd.
Agr.
Lond.
 XV 1908 p. 64.
91 The Naturalist in Nicaragua 1888.
Lampyridse were invariably rejected by the monkey and my fowls would not touch them p. 317.
A red and blue frog was not touched by fowls and ducks but one of the latter tricked into taking one rejected it p. 321.
We may add also those of Haase 62 Erithacus rubecula had to be starved into eating Zygoma trifolii p. 20.
Fowls always rejected Danais chrysippus but eagerly ate Papilio pammon.
Captive monkeys also rejected Danais p. 23.
Attempts to feed species of Danais Pharmacophagus Delias and Euschema to tame chickens were unsuccessful p. 99.
Danais septentrionalis was rejected by caged lizards Calotes mystaceus p. 99.
The following appended in bibliographic form are selfexplanatory Donisthorpe H. St. J. K. Cases of Protective Resemblance Mimicry etc. in the British Coleoptera.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1901.
Three species of lizards were found to reject the Telephorid Psilothrix nobilis p. 362.
Specimens of Melasoma populi  were pecked at but finally refused though killed by Shama Pied Mynah Laughing Jackass and Brambling.
The Drongo and Graculipica nigrirostris ate several.
The author says It appears to me that their refusal by so many insecteaters in confinement conclusively proves their distastefulness p. 368.
It proves nothing of the sort.
Moreover distastefulness of the kind here claimed seems to be no protection at all.
Specimens of Cassida equestris were eaten by all the birds to which they were offered p. 369.
Shelford Pi.
Observations on some Mimetic Insects and Spiders from Borneo.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1902 pp.
230284 pis.
1923.
Two tame monkeys Macacus cynomolgus manifested disgust after tasting specimens of the Reduviid Eulyes amcena but ate its mimic the mantis Htjmenopus bicornis p. 232.
The writer says he has proved the distastefulness of Lycidse by repeated trials with various small mammals and birds p. 244.
All the Lycidse are strongly distasteful .... A strong vitality is correlated with this distastefulness I have seen a Lycid beetle walk away apparently uninjured after it had been well pecked by two or three fowls p. 267.
Titchener E. B. and F. Finn.
Comparative Palatabilitv of Insects etc.
Nature Vol.
42 No.
1093 October 9 1890 pp.
571 572.
Haase E. Researches on Mimicry Part II Stuttgart 1896.
The animals used in these experiments were domestic mice toads a mynah Acridotheres tristis a heron Ardea cinerea a prairie owl a water tortoise and a lizard.
The results of the experiments are described in detail but no general conclusion is given.
At least seven of the things offered as food were both accepted and refused by the same species of animal.
This number included the common earthworm Lumbricus terrestris .
Titchener E. B.
Comparative Palatability.
Nature Vol.
44 No.
23 October 8 1891 p. 540.
Experiments with frogs toads and ducks supplementary to the above no general remarks.
Titchener E. B.
Comparative Palatability.
Nature Vol.
45 No.
3 November 19 1891 p. 53.
These experiments relate to the choice of food by captive goldfish silverfish frogs and a spider.
The details are given without comment.
BIRDS.
Experiments in Europe.
Birds have been used more frequently than animals of any other class to test the potency of the protective adaptations of insects and other groups under experimental conditions.
One of the most important series of experiments was carried on chiefly as a study of the origin of the process by which food is accepted or rejected by birds.
In this series Prof. C. Lloyd Morgan performed various experiments with young chicks pheasants guineafowls moorhens and ducks the net result of which is that in the absence of parental guidance the young birds have to learn for themselves what is good to eat and what is distasteful and have no instinctive aversions.
63 The results of these experiments are often quoted by the selectionists and as usual in such cases with sweeping inclusions not at all intended by the author.
He says I am not of course prepared to say that in no case is there such instinctive aversion Birds like the megapodes which are hatched out in mounds apart from parental influence .... may show instinctive avoidances which our wellcaredfor birds do not possess.
That the parent bird does in most cases afford guidance is unquestionable pp.
4344.
Some of the principal results that have a bearing on the value of warning colors under experimental conditions are as follows 1.
Chicks tested and rejected cinnabar caterpillars Euchelia jacobce but ate brown loopers and larvae of the green cabbagemoth p. 42.
A jay ate five cinnabar larvae but would take no more p. 43.
63 Habit and Instinct 1896 p. 43.
2.
Young moorhens found the conspicuously colored burnet moths Zygoma filipendula distasteful the obnoxious part being the wings for the body from which the wings were removed was eaten with apparent relish while the severed wings were rejected p. 42.
3.
Lvmbricus faztidus was refused at first as were all other earthworms for some time afterwards.
Later all were eaten.
4.
All birds tested avoided woollybear caterpillars Arctia caja.
5.
Jays ducks and moorhens ate caterpillars of the tiger moths Nemeophila plantaginus and Chelonia villica while chicks pheasants and guineafowls found them distasteful p. 43.
6.
Jays ate pupae of Abraxas grossulariata p. 43 an insect refused by most of the captive animals to which it has been offered.
7.
One jay ate a larva of Phalera bucephala which another jay and duckling and chicks refused p. 43.
8.
Soldierbeetles and ladybirds were avoided p. 43.
In No.
2 intrinsic distastefulness is not shown it is the dry scaly wings that are objectionable.
Nos.
3 5 and 7 give evidence for both sides of the question and No.
6 is inconsistent with most other experiments on the same insect.
The evanescence of some associations concerning food are shown by the following experiment Bits of orange peel were offered to a young chick that had learned to eat yolk of egg they were refused as were also bits of yolk substituted immediately afterward.
Subsequently the yolk was again tested and accepted p. 41.
Another test indicates that in some cases taste cannot be the criterion upon which choice is made.
While small worms are picked up with avidity large worms are left alone by quite young birds and often evoke the alarm note.
None of the chicks on the fifth day dared go near a particularly large worm.
Bits of redbrown worsted somewhat resembling worms were seized with eagerness and eaten with surprising avidity so long as they were not more than a couple of inches long.
Of a fourinch bit the chicks were afraid until one bolder than the rest seized it whereupon the other chased him for the prize till he escaped to a secluded corner and swallowed it p. 50.
An unusual experience with customary food may lead to its rejection as decisively as if it were  nauseous and  warningly colored.
Pheasants and partridges when they seized a worm for the first time shook it and dashed it against the ground one of them did so indeed with such vigor that he shook himself over and thereafter could not for some time be induced so much as to look at a worm p. 51.
A little pheasant which would run to my hand for wasp larvae placed upon the palm one morning gave the alarm note and would not as usual jump upon my fingers.
Four or five of the grubs had stuck together so as to form a large mass of which he was afraid
Moorhen chicks were at first afraid of the common yellow underwing moth and of the gamma moth though both were eaten freely after I had given them dead moths p. 50.
Even protective coloration is of little value if there is movement so sharp are the eyes of young birds.
The caterpillar of the small white butterfly Pieris rapcc on a nasturtium leaf with which its clear green color assimilated well was picked off by a moorhen chick the moment it moved its head.
Recently hatched stick insects Diapheromera femorata  which Prof. Poulton gave me were snapped off the lime leaves directly they moved p. 46.
Prof. Morgan made many tests with bees and wasps and in summing them up says Much .... depends on the nature of initial experience.
A bird that has in early days seized a bee with ill effects is shy for a long time not only of bees but of moths  large flies and beetles while one which is so stung at a later stage is made perhaps a little more cautious generally but the main effect is a particularized one concerning bees or the beelike drone fly p. 54.
A series of experiments of much the same nature as Morgan's but shorter is described by L. W. Kline.
64 Chicks were tested with earthworms white boring grubs cabbage worms and bits of yellow pine and starched muslin.
They rejected pine wood after a few experiences at the age of three days but three days later they ate it again while experience with muslin on the third day was lasting.
They were six days getting acquainted with earthworms and eight days with canker cabbage worms p. 276.
An excellent article previously referred to The Food of Some British Birds 65 by Robert Newstead besides presenting the largest amount of detailed information on its subject thus far brought forward contains a short account of an experimental feeding of starlings.
Certain food items were placed near a nest in which young were being fed.
One centipede Geophilus longicornis and one earwig Forficula auricularia were refused although each species had previously been given to the nestlings by the parent birds.
Only 64  Methods in Animal Psychology  Chicks Amer.
Journ.
of Psychol. 10 18989 pp.
265277.
M Suppl.
Journ.
Bd.
Agr.
London XV No.
9 December 1908. one of six wood lice Oniscus asellus was accepted and from five to seven green cherries were refused.
Both of these items are eaten by adult starlings thus rounding out to a total the contradictory evidence as to choice of the four items by the same bird under natural and under artificial conditions.
In 1889 and 1890 Mr. A. G. Butler whose experiments with lizards are included in the tables of Poulton previously discussed published three articles dealing with the food preferences of captive birds.
These included both British and tropical birds which were kept in large aviaries.
The first 66 of Mr. Butler's trio of papers treats only the general results of six years' experimenting.
He says My experience .... has been that no insect in any stage was ever refused by all the birds what one bird refused another would eat p. 171.
In the course of this paper Mr. Butler casually remarked that for two years he had sent data on the experiments to Mr. Poulton not even retaining a copy of my notes but so far nothing seems to have come of it I presume therefore that my facts have rather tended to mystify than clear the matter up p. 171.
Poulton seems to have taken deep umbrage at Butler's remarks as he returned the notes and made a hot reply on pp.
358360 of the same volume.
Butler later published his notes in full 67 and says Few things ever astonished me more than the hostile attitude which Mr. Poulton assumed with regard to that innocent paper or the cruel misconstruction which he put upon the most harmless remarks made therein that my comment touching the repeated reproduction of a few comparatively unimportant observations of my own should have been dislocated into a claim to the origination of Wallace's theory is too absurd to be considered seriously I still insist that so long as a few desultory observations are incessantly forced into a front place it is an evidence of how little has hitherto been done upon which to establish the truth of a theory  many more observers are wanted and all their observations must be impartially treated if we are to arrive at exact scientific truth.
I was not aware that Mr. Poulton had made a selection of 'the most interesting results' of my recent experiments for publication in the Report of the British Association or I should not have said 'so far nothingseems to have come of it' nevertheless as it is impossible for any 66 A few remarks respecting Insects supposed to be distasteful to Birds Annals and Mag.
of Nat.
Hist. Sixth Ser. Vol.
IV 1889 pp.
171173.
67  Notes made during the summer of 1887 on the effect of offering various Insects Larvse and Pupae to Birds I.e. pp.
463473. one man to judge how far even apparently uninteresting results may eventually tell for or against a theory  as too Mr. Poulton has evidently forgotten some of those facts ....
I think I cannot do better than publish the whole of my observations in detail pp.
463 464.
The most interesting results made use of by Poulton 68 are remarks upon only four species of insects eaten by birds while Butler's notes deal with at least fortyseven species of insects and other invertebrates.
Moreover without mentioning Butler's results Poulton discusses the results of his own tests with lizards and a marmoset of three other species of insects which Butler had fed to birds.
Poulton gratuitously observes If I had no more notes than those supplied by Mr. Butler their preparation for publication would be only a work of a few hours but these notes are a very small fraction of the whole.
69 The fact remains however that the large fraction of the whole with unimportant exceptions remains unpublished today.
As a result of this series of experiments Butler concludes that no insect in any stage excepting the redtailed bumblebee which by the way I only offered to the misselthrush was rejected by all my birds those insects which were refused by certain species were eagerly devoured by others In the second place so far from my birds learning by experience to reject with scorn that which they had proved to be unpalatable I found that in some instances they seemed to acquire a taste for larvae previously refused.
Birds are very intelligent but their memories are ridiculously short p. 473.
Butler's third paper 70 enumerates tests of 17 invertebrates offered to birds with the following principal conclusion My experiments have convinced me that the tastes of birds not only differ in individuals of the same species but that the same individuals in consecutive years vary as to their likes and dislikes.
Unfortunately the experiments of Butler cannot be compared with those of Pocock who also used British insects and both native and exotic birds as Butler does not record the number of times an insect was refused or accepted but only tells what species of birds ate it and which did not.
Probably the only coincidence of the same 68 Rep. British A.
A. S. 1887 1888 pp.
762 763.
69 Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 1889 pp.
359 360. 
Notes made during the present year on the Acceptance or Rejection of Insects by Birds Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. Sixth Ser. Vol.
VI 1890 pp.
324327. species of bird tested with the same stage of the same species of insect in the two sets of experiments is Leiothrix with larvse of Pieris brassicce.
The result in each case was acceptance.
A. D. Bartlett recounts an experience in rearing young water ouzels which well illustrates the fundamental difference between experimental and natural conditions.
He says 71 They had been tried with the usual food for most insecteating birds such as scraped beef and hardboiled eggs ant eggs mealworms spiders flies beetles aquatic snails shrimps salmon spawn and many other mixtures but all failed until my clerk and assistant Mr. Arthur Thomson who had taken as much interest in rearing these birds as myself hit upon the idea of scalding the mealworms and tried it.
It was soon apparent that in this condition the mealworms could be digested while in a raw or living state they especially their hard skins would pass through the birds in a hard and undigested condition.
From this moment I had but little trouble.
The birds fed greedily upon the halfboiled mealworms and I soon found them ready to leave the nest.
Thus these birds did not thrive upon a regimen that included several elements of their natural food but did well only when the staple food was partially cooked.
Mr. Bartlett adds  In May 1869 I obtained my first living water ouzel.
Since that time I have had a great many of these birds.
Some of them I reared from the nest and I fed them upon boiled mealworms the larvse of the caddis fly and other insect food but as soon as they were able to feed themselves and took to the water they caught and fed upon very small fish especially young minnows.
I found them rather expensive pets having to provide for a family of four as they caught and devoured several dozen daily and seemed to prefer live fish to all other food.
If experimental results could be taken as a guide to natural behavior we should conclude from this testimony that water ouzels feed largely on fish.
It is worthy of note therefore that Newstead 72 found no fish in the stomachs he examined.
In the account 73 of the experiments by Dr. G. Rorig previously referred to it is stated that all of the following insects  71 Wild Animals in Captivity 1899 pp.
308310. n Suppl.
Joum.
Bd.
Agr.
Lond. XV No.
9 December 1908 p. 25.
73 Arb.
Biol.
Abt.
f. Land.
u. Forstwirtschaft .
K. Gcsandheitsamte IV 1903 Heft 1 pp.
3450.
Cnetkocampa pinivora eggs and larvae Fidonia piniaria larvae Euproctis chrysorrhoea larvae Clisiocampa neustria pupae and adults Liparis salicis pupae and adults Pieris brassicce pupae and adults Porthetria dispar adults Nematus abietum larvae Nematus salicis larvae were taken eagerly by captive birds such as titmice redstarts kinglets nuthatches etc.
Although the list includes hairy larvae some with urticating hairs and sawfly larvae which other experimenters state that birds usually reject Dr. Rorig does not mention any refusals.
We have already quoted his notes on the acceptance of Pieris brassicce which has been classed as distasteful.
Dr. Rorig's birds also ate plantlice Aradus cinnamomeus Cecidomyia saliciperda Retinia buoliana R. turionana Phyllopertha horticola and Scolytidce.
We may note here also the experiment 74 of Dr. Gunther in feeding Meloidae to chickens.
He fed the fowls from 1 to 5 grams of Cantharus daily until a total of 28 28 40.5 and 80.5 g. of the material was taken by four chickens respectively.
One of the birds which ate 28 g. showed symptoms of poisoning the others remained healthy.
Significant amounts of cantharidin were recovered from the bodies of these birds and even from eggs laid by them.
Another German experiment but slightly related to the theory of protective adaptations is recorded 75 by Alexander Bau.
The titmice Parus major and P. communis accepted in confinement eggs of Liparis monacha Porthetria dispar Orgyia spp. and Clisiocampa neustria p. 69.
Brief mention should be made of the following te  Donisthorpe H. Experiments with Birds.
Proc.
Ent.
Soc Lond. 1901 p. xiii.
Quoted by Rev.
Canon Fowler to the effect that Clythra quadripunctata Gonioctena rufipes and species of Lina were rejected by several species of British and foreign birds in the London Zoological Gardens.
All of these beetles were eatn by a rackettailed drongo.
Longstaff G. B.
Experimental evidence as to the Palatabilitv of Butterflies.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1908 pp.
629631.
74 Tierdrztliches Zentralbl 34 Nr.
18 June 20 1911 S. 273276. '
Nutzen und Schaden tlurch die Vogel Vogelschutz.
In Nalurgeschichte der Deutschen Vogel by C. G. Friderich Stuttgart 1905 pp.
6076.
The experiments were performed in Ceylon with Gracula sp. and domestic fowls.
So far as these experiments teach anything it would appear that these mainas would eat with relish Nissanga patina Yphthima ceylonica Atella phalanta Ergolis sp. and Lampides sp.
On the other hand Papilio aristolochice and Crastia asela were distinctly distasteful.
The evidence as to the other species experimented with fails to convince me one way or the other p. 631.
In several of the experiments the birds apparently were not hungry enough to care for anything.
Experiments in Africa.
In their extensive and interesting paper on the  Bionomics of South African Insects 76 Marshall and Poulton record the results of experiments with kestrels Cerchneis rupicoloides and C. naumanni and a ground hornbill Bucorax caffer.
The experiments with the kestrels pp.
340345 are characterized by the average small number of trials of the various insects used.
The writer desires to draw attention to only one point in the discussion of these experiments.
On p. 346 Poulton says with regard to some supposedly distasteful beetles which the birds had eaten It is probable that most of the defensive fluid had been already discharged in the case of the Carabidse of the genera Piezia Polyhirma and Graphipterus of which the acid secretion was seen to be a very positive protection when there was opportunity for its operation on a normal scale.
The normal scale referred to was the offering of the beetles tail first
Marshall found these carabids in the stomachs of certain wild birds and in discussing this Poulton says the fact is not remarkable as the defensive secretions may be discharged and lost as the result of the attacks of an experienced enemy p. 353.
This better illustrates action on a normal scale.
The ground hornbill experimented upon by Marshall pp.
347348 ate all butterflies offered it including several of the reputed protected forms with the exception of two specimens of Limnas Danais chrysippus.
Poulton therefore remarks It has already been pointed out that the acceptance of insects by insectivorous animals in captivity is no proof of their normal likes or dislikes in a wild state Hence the fact the Acrseas were devoured is.no evidence that thejare normally eaten except in a time of unusual hunger p. 348.
Marshall 77 however says The bird was 76 Trms.
Ent.
Soc.
Loud. 1902 pp.
287504.
 Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1908 p. 139. entirely unconfined and wandered at will searching for its food just like his wild relatives on the next hillside with only this exception if insects etc. were scarce the .... bird always got additional food at the house.
The conditions of the experiment therefore render it highly improbable that the hornbill was eating insects which it would normally reject and its whole demeanor was quite at variance with such a supposition.
It is apparent that experts may draw very different conclusions from the same experimental data a fact among many which points to the conclusion that the results of stomach examination are the only reliable criteria regarding bird food.
Experiments in Asia.
No experiments are more widely quoted than those performed by Frank Finn while Deputy Superintendent of the Indian Museum Calcutta.
Only those of Pocock are more extensive and they were performed under much more artificial conditions.
The results of Finn's experiments on birds are published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal as follows No.
I.
Experiments with a Babbler Crateropus canorus.
Vol.
64 1895 1896 Pt.
2 pp.
344356.
No.
IV.
Experiments with various Birds.
Summary and conclusions.
Vol.
66 1897 1898 Pt.
II pp.
613668.
The birds used in these experiments were  Pekin robin Leiothrix luteus.
Common babbler Crateropus canorus.
Redwhiskered bulbul Otocompsa emeria.
Common bulbul Molpastes bengalensis.
Yellowvented bulbul Molpastes leucotis.
Whitecrested bulbul Pycnonotus sinensis.
Green bulbul Chloropsis sp.
Whiteeye Zosterops sp.
Sibia Malacias capistrata.
Mesia Mesia argentauris.
Button quail .. Turnix taigoor.
Bhimraj Dissemurus paradiseus Kingcrow Dicrurus ater.
Shama Kittacincla macroura.
Indian starling Sturnus menzbieri.
Mynah Acridotheres tristis.
Black and white hornbill Anthracoceros sp.
The Zosterops probably because of their small size played avery minor part in the experiments caged as they were with a variety of larger birds the Mesia had an exceedingly brief trial and the Anthracoceros was tested principally with dead and dry insects left over from experiments with other birds.
Finn remarks that of two individuals of this last species one did not care for insects at all the other on some occasions had to be coerced into eating insects of the supposedly palatable kinds.
In commenting upon the significance of his experiments Finn puts an emphasis on order of choice between insects which the writer does not consider justifiable.
These as all other experiments are to determine what will be eaten and the fact that insects not eaten in the presence of the experimenter as a rule were devoured before his next visit or the next morning shows the futility of drawing fine distinctions as to apparent preferences.
More than 123 butterflies which were left in the cages were eaten in the absence of the experimenter or by birds not specified and more than 77 per cent of them belonged to the nauseous group.
About seventytwo butterflies remained uneaten overnight though it should be remarked that many of these were taken later the next day.
Of the seventytwo about 85 per cent belonged to the nauseous group a percentage practically no different than in the case of those eaten.
It is worthy of note that the number of butterflies left uneaten is definitely stated in every case while those eaten are often included in general terms as some several etc.
In making these calculations some has been reckoned as two undoubtedly it sometimes meant more.
These expressions occur nineteen times for the nauseous group among the butterflies eaten in the absence of experimenter only once for the palatable group and not at all in the case of butterflies left over.
Hence there is no doubt as implied above that the proportions of these groups are about the same in the butterflies eaten as in those left over.
In the following table are shown the approximate numbers of acceptances and rejections upon trial of both the nauseous and palatable groups of insects.
Species of the former group used are Acrcea violce Danais chrysippus D. genutia D. limniace Delias eucharis Euploea sp. Euproctis sp. Mylabris sp. Papilio aristolochice and Terias sp.
The principal species of the palatable group are Catopsilia sp. Junonia sp. Elymnias undularis Papilio demoleus P. polites Huphina phryne Hypolimnas misippus Nepheronia hippia Atella phalanta and Neptis kamarupa.
Nauseous.
A. R. Crateropus canorus 111 36 Leiothrix luteus 52 22 Dissemurus paradiseus 30 22 Dicrurus ater 17 2 Kittacincla macroura 21 28 Sturnus menzbieri 17 16 Chloropsis sp 6 5 Malarias capistrata Otocompsa emeria 79 21 7 Molpastes bengalensis 79 15 1 Molpastes leucotis 15 Pycnonotus sinensis 7 9 Turnix taigoor 29 1 Acridotheres tristis 2 .
1 Palatable.
A. R 96 1 94 21 54 6 32 4 78 12 42 7 16 5 5 5 7 6 10 5 10 1 20 3 2 1 343 150 471 72 Finn's conclusions may be discussed in order 1.
That there is a general appetite for butterflies among insectivorous birds even though they are rarely seen when wild to attack them p. 667.
This is a thing which can never be proven by experiment.
As well say there is a general appetite for boiled rice bread and milk and domestic cockroaches which were the stock foods of the birds used in these experiments.
Certainly these things are no more foreign to the natural dietaries of many species of birds than are butterflies and the eating of either in captivity is no proof that they are taken or even relished by wild birds.
This argument is strengthened by the record of the buttonquail Turnix taigoor in Finn's experiments.
This essentially groundloving bird which is in no way equipped for capturing butterflies under natural conditions and consequently cannot have an appetite for them in captivity took all but four out of a total of fiftythree that it tried.
Mason and Lefroy in the most comprehensive and valuable statement yet published regarding the food of birds in India say so Butterflies do not form any appreciable proportion of the food of 78 Finn records the refusal of Acrosa by the redwhiskered bulbul p. 640 while Poulton Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1908 p. xxxi publishes a letter from H. L. Andrewes which states that this bird was observed to feed to its young Acrcea violce supposedly one of the most distasteful of the group.
79 An interesting case of the diversity in results of experiments and a proof therefore of their misleading character probably refers to this bird the common bulbul of India.
A. G. Butler Nature 3 No.
61 December 29 1870 p. 165 notes that a Mr. Newton of Bombay said it was only by repeated persecution that a caged bulbul was induced to touch a Danais.
The record of this bird with Danais in Finn's experiments is A 8 R 4.
80 Mem.
Dept.
Agr.
India Ent.
Ser. Vol.
Ill January 1912 p. 338. any one species of bird though a good many birds take these insects at times.
A long series of experiments with regard to birds taking protectively colored or distasteful insects and especially butterflies was made by Mr. Finn They have little importance to economic ornithology since most of the experiments were conducted with caged birds these therefore being under unnatural conditions.
2.
That many probably most species dislike if not intensely at any rate in comparison with other butterflies the warningly colored Danainse Acrcea violce Delias eucharis and Papilio aristolochice of these the last being the most distasteful and the Danainse the least so p. 667.
By consulting the tabulation of acceptances and rejections given above it will be seen that only two out of fourteen species of birds considerably experimented with failed to take as many or more insects of the nauseous group than they refused and that seven of these fourteen species' refused as large or a larger proportion of the palatable butterflies as of the nauseous ones.
Consequently the assertion in Conclusion 2 at least as regards the Danainse is not borne out even under experimental conditions it should read about half of the species of birds considerably experimented with showed in captivity a greater or less degree of preference for butterflies of the palatable group.
The figures show that about 30 per cent of all nauseous butterflies tested were refused as were about 13 per cent of the palatable ones.
About 23 per cent of the Danais average of three species and of the Euplceas were rejected proportions nearly as small or smaller than in the case of at least three species of the socalled palatable group namely Papilio demoleus 25 per cent.
 Atella phalanta 22 per cent.
 and Elymnias undalaris 24 per cent.
The approximate numbers of refusals and acceptances and the percentage of refusals for the important species of both groups are given below Nauseous group.
A. R. R.
Danais chrysippus 136 38 21.8  genutia 59 23 28  limniace 38 9 19.1 Delias eucharis 13 19 59.3 Euplcea sp 53 16 22.8 Euproctis sp 11 2 15.3 Mylabris sp 1 1 50 Papilio aristolochice 17 33 .
66 Terias sp 11 4 26.6 Acrcea violce 3 5 62.5 22 Palatable group.
Atella phalanta 16 6 22.7 Elymnias undularis  r 25 8 24.2 Hypolinnas misippus 13 1 7.1 Nepheronia hippia 12 1 7.6 Papilio demoleus 69 24 25.8  polites.. 55 12 17.9 3.
That the mimics of these are at any rate relatively palatable and that the mimicry is commonly effectual under natural conditions p. 667.
According to the figures obtained by me the mimics Hypolimnasmisippus and Nepheronia hippia were each rejected once in thirteen and twelve trials respectively an average of about 7 per cent. or much under the average for the ''palatable group as a whole while about 18 per cent of the Papilio polites and 24 per cent of the Elymnias undularis were refused fully as large a proportion as in the case of several members of the nauseous group.
There is no more evidence for the latter half of this conclusion than that any other features of the experiments are analogous to natural conditions.
As noted above the experiments and conclusions of Finn are often quoted in support of the selectionist theories and Finn himself in summing up this earlier work says On the whole the theory of Wallace and Bates is supported by the facts detailed in this and former papers so far as they deal with birds.
and the one mammal used pp.
667 668.
It is of great interest therefore to note that the builder of these oftsought bulwarks of the selectionists later came to the opinion that neither they nor any other of the defenses brought forward would save the day for the selection theories.
In collaboration with Douglass Dewar in a book entitled The Making of Species 1909.
he says Many naturalists especially Dr. Wallace and Prof. Poulton have pushed the various theories of animal coloration to absurd lengths p. 171 We have examined these mighty images of gold and silver and brass and iron and found that there is much clay in the feet  p. 172 .... What we know of the struggle for existence offers but poor support to the NeoDarwinian explanation of the cases of the socalled mimicry in nature p. 240.
As a result of his experience with captive birds Finn recommends that future experimenters use birds in a state of freedom and at least one experimenter Lieut.
Col. Neville Manders has done so.
Manders himself says I am extremely doubtful as to any real value accruing from experiments on caged birds whether nestlings or adult.
No one I imagine believes that all butterflies taste alike no doubt some are more tasty than others and caged birds fed upon butterflies even with other insect food would no doubt learn in time to distinguish the different kinds  but this procedure to my mind begs the question as it assumes that butterflies are an ordinary article of food in the wild state a proposition .... which the evidence .... does not altogether support.
81 It is noteworthy that the free birds Manders did induce to take disabled butterflies were not seen by him to attack these insects under normal conditions.
He frequently comments pp.
736739 741 on this fact.
Although the birds ate the helpiess butterflies they took no notice of the freely flying ones that abounded in the vicinity.
The wild birds experimented upon in Ceylon by Manders with their records are as follows Disregarded  D.  means simply not taken and not tried.
Behavior toward dead butterflies not noted .
Nauseous Palatable group.
group.
A. R. D. A. R. D. Robin flycatcher Siphia hyperythra 2 2 6 1 Duskyblue  Stoparola sordida 7 2 4 Brown shrike Lanius cristatus 4 7 4 5 Magpie robin Copsychus saularis.
... 10 3 4 210 6 Mynah Acridotheres tristis 110 1 5 1 34 3 14 38 17 Thus there were no refusals upon trial of any living butterflies except by the magpie robin.
This bird has three rejections two of Euplcea core one of which it ate immediately afterwards.
The bird's record with this butterfly was A 9 R 2.
Manders says the other butterfly Terias hecabe refused by this species was too dry.
The percentage of insects disregarded is practically the same for the nauseous and the palatable groups.
Manders' conclusion from this and other evidence is that the terms palatable and unpalatable are not justified at present I.e. p. 742.
Experiments in America.
Unfortunately the natural food habits of many of the Indian 81 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. September 1911 p. 745.
African and British birds experimented with are not well known for the selectionists have examined very few stomachs of wild birds.
This method is more arduous and does not pile up results so handsomely as do experiments.
But it is nevertheless in connection with the strictly correlated examination of contents of other parts of the alimentary canal and of pellets and faeces together with reliable records of individuals seen or collected with food in talon or beak the only trustworthy method of learning what birds actually eat under natural conditions.
And this information only is acceptable proof of the tastes and food preferences of birds or for that matter of any other animals.
It is fortunate therefore that one series of experiments has been made the results of which can be closely checked with a satisfactory amount of exact information upon the food habits of the same species under natural conditions.
Experiments by Judd and Beal.
The experiments referred to have never been published upon as a whole though some of the results may be found in the following publications  Beal F. E. L. The Bluejay and its Food.
Yearbook U. S. Dept.
Agr. 1896 1897 pp.
205 206.
Birds of California in relation to the Fruit Industry.
Part I Bui.
30 Biol.
Survey 1907 p. 35.
Judd Sylvester D. Four common Birds of the Farm and Garden.
Yearbook U. S. Dept.
Agr. 1895 1896 pp.
410 414.
The Efficiency of some Protective Adaptations in securing Insects from Birds.
Am.
Nat. 33 No.
390 June 1899 pp.
461484. .
The relation of Sparrows to Agriculture.
Bui.
15 Biological Survey 1901 pp.
4548.
The Bobwhite and other Quails of the United States in their economic relations.
Bui.
21 Biological Survey 1905 pp.
28 29 36 38 40 41 4445.
Doctor Judd was at one time yery enthusiastic with regard to experiments in feeding birds and these experiments were initiated and largely carried on by him.
They were watched however and in part performed by Prof. F. E. L. Beal the veteran economic ornithologist who has examined the contents of more bird stomachs than any other person in the world.
Prof. Beal was mainly responsible for the discontinuance of these experiments and I am betraying no secret in asserting that experimental ornithology was abandoned by the United States Biological Survey because of a direct realization from these trials of the futility of experiments as indications of the food preferences and therefore of the economic status of species under natural conditions.
It is not the writer's purpose to give a detailed account of these experiments but merely lists of the items accepted and rejected with comments thereon.
It will be helpful to consider separately those items which were both refused and devoured.
Several discrepancies exist between the statistics here presented and the published accounts previously referred to but the writer has made the following tabulations directly from notebooks containing daily entries regarding the experiments.
He believes these should be accepted as correct rather than statements in the printed pages that have run the gantlet of editors and proofreaders whose efforts often have just the opposite result so far as accuracy is concerned from that which the exercise of their true functions is intended to insure.
To interpret the bearing of this and the following experiments on the theory of protective adaptations it should be recalled that the common types of what is called warning coloration are the combinations of black with red yellow and white.
Metallic colors also are usually classed as warning.
Besides the insects etc. possessing these colors other groups for various reasons are said to be specially defended.
Among these are ground beetles Carabidse many of which have acid and nauseous secretions the true bugs Hemiptera nearly all pungently flavored and malodorous  ants and the stinging wasps and bees Hymenoptera  the spiders and centipeds with poison fangs and the millipeds with acid juices.
All of these creatures are supposed to be especially protected from the attacks of predaceous animals or in other words to be distasteful.
To bring out clearly the attitude of Judd's captive birds toward these categories of protected animals the writer has tabulated the results as regards the animal food only of each series except the shorter ones of experiments under the following headings warningly colored species others specially defended and nonprotected species.
Of course the term nonprotected is not in accordance with the theories of protective adaptations as the more obscurely colored and innoxious forms thus described are also said to be protected but chiefly in a more passive way than the other two groups namely by concealing coloration.
Nonprotected is therefore used to bring into greater contrast the theoretical attributes of these comparatively poorly protected species.
334 June Bobwhite Colinus virginianus  82  Accepted Chetopoda.
Earthworms.
coleoptera.
Carabide.
 Scarites subterraneus black.
Harpalus erythropus black reddish legs.
CoCCINELLIDiE.
Adalia bipunctata red black and yellow.
Epilachna borealis yellow and black.
SCARABEIDE.
Li gyrus gibbosus redbrown.
Chrysomelide.
Diabrotica 12punctata yellow and black 2  .
Diabrotica vittata yellow and black 2  .
Leptinotarsa decemlineata yellow and black three birds ate fifty in five minutes.
Lepidoptera.
PlERIDE.
Pieris rapce larvae green black and yellow 2.
SPHINGIDiE.
Phlegethontius sp.
larvae green and white 2.
Noctuid.
Agrotis sp.
larva.
Rejected COLEOPTERA.
COCCINELLID.E.
Chilocorus bivulnerus black and red.
MELOID.E.
Melee angusticollis dark blue or violet vesicant body fluids.
HOMOPTERA.
APHID.E.
Hymenoptera.
Tenthredinide larvae.
Summary Colinus virginianus. Accepted.
Rejected.
Species.
Specimens.
cies.
 Warninely colored species 7 1 4 KQJ.
O O Others specially defended 1 2 r. n 2  Nonprotected species 82 Partial account of these experiments in Bui.
21 Biol.
Survey 1905 pp.
2829 36 38 40 41 4445.
Thus these bobwhites ate among other things three species of strongly flavored yellow and black Chrysomelidse or leaf beetles and two species of equally if not more pungent Coccinellidse or ladybirds whose colors of yellow and black and red black and yellow are typically warning.
On the other hand the birds refused one red and black ladybird.
It is evident considerations as to color of prey have little weight with the quail.
It is worthy of note also that although these birds refused plant lice birds experimented upon by Mrs. Margaret M. Nice ate large numbers of these insects.
Mrs. Nice's experiments upon bobwhites 83 which have previously been reviewed 84 by the writer clearly bring out the fact that birds will eat in captivity insects which they probably never eat or in some cases never even see in their normal existence.
Examples are houseflies Musca domestica and mosquitoes 1350 and 568 of these insects respectively were taken at single meals but undoubtedly they are seldom if ever eaten by wild bobwhites.
Silver fish Lepisma saccharina clothes moths Tinea pellionella and mealworms Tenebrio also were eaten by the captive quail but wild birds probably never have a chance to get these close associates of man.
The writer does not list the results of Judd's trials of quail with various vegetable foods but only one item was refused namely strawberries.
These are eaten by wild bobwhites and Judd comments 85 on the fact as follows M. B. Waite reports that near Odenton Md. it sometimes picks ripening strawberries.
Yet birds that were kept in captivity several months refused strawberries when they were hungry.
Broadwinged Hawk Buteo platypterus .
 Accepted Lepidoptera.
Basilona imperialis imago yellow and purplishbrown.
Bartrachia.
Bufo sp.
Aves.
MlCROPODIDE.
Chcetura pelagica fuscous.
83  Food of the Bob white.
By Margaret Morse Nice Journ.
of Economic Entomology Vol.
3 No.
3 June 1910 pp.
295313.
84 Journ.
Economic Ent. Vol.
3 No.
5 October 1910 pp.
437438.
 Bui.
21 Biol.
Survey 1905 p. 36.
Fringillide.
Passer domesticus nestlings 3.
There is no record of a refusal by this bird.
The toad is supposed to be protected by acrid secretions of glands in the skin.
Rubythroated Hummingbird Archilochus colubris   Rejected Small Aphidse. 
Jassidae. 
Culicidse. 
Other Diptera. 
Halticinse. 
Araneida.
The leaf hoppers Jassidae small flies Diptera fleabeetles Halticinse and spiders Araneida at least are common articles in the natural diet of this species.
Bluejay Cyanocitta cristata  86  Accepted CHiETOPODA.
Earthworms 7.
ISOPODA.
Oniscus asellus 6.
Chilopoda.
Lithobiiis sp. 2.
Julus sp. 2.
Ephemerida.
Adults many.
Orthoptera.
acridiide.
Dissosteira Carolina 1. coleoptera.
Carabide.
Agonoderus pallipes pale yellow and black 1.
Anisodactylus discoideus black and brownishyellow 2. 
rusticus brownishblack 2.
Calosoma scrutator metallic green red and blue 1.
Chlcenius sp. 1.
Galerita janus black and reddishbrown 2.
Harpalus caliginosus black 1.
86 Partial account in Yearbook U. S. Dept.
Agr. 1896 1897 pp.
205 206.
1912.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
337 Elateride.
Alaus oculatus black and silvery with eyespots.
 Elaterid adult 1.
Elaterid larva 1.
ScARAB.EIDjE.
Allorhina nitida green and yellow 1.
LUCANID.E.
Passalus cornutus black 2.
Cerambycid.e.
Typocerus sinuatus black with yellow bands 5.
CHRYSOMELID.E.
Diabrotica 12punctdta yellow with black spots 1.
TENEBRIONID.E.
Nyctobates pennsylvanicus black 1.
Tenebrio obscuras dark reddishbrown 1.
Tenebrionid undet. 1.
Heteroptera.
pentatomid.e.
Brochymena sp. 1.
Lepidoptera.
Philosamia cynthia.
yellow and purplishbrown 3 alive and dead.
Telea polyphemus ad.
mainly reddishbrown white and black eye spots on each pair of wings 1.
Orgyia leucostigma pupae 2.
Hyphantria cunea larvae very hairy many.
Hairy caterpillar undet. 1.
Cutworm 1.
Hymenoptera.
Apina 2.
Agapostemon sp.
metallic green 1.
Araneida.
Spider 1.
Aves.
phasianid.e.
 Egg shells.
Fringillide.
English sparrow eggs 2.
Rejected Orthoptera.
Blattide. '
Stylopyga orientalis black.
Heteroptera.
Belostomatide.
Benacus griseus light brown.
coleoptera.
Lampyride.
Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus yellow and black 3.
Chrysomelide.
Chrysochus auratus metallic green and coppery.
Lepidoptera.
Papilionide.
Papilio troilus adult dark redbrown white and bluishgreen .
PULMONATA.
LlMACIDE.
Limax sp.
Aves.
PhASIANIDjE.
Hen's egg whole.
FrINGILLIDjE.
Passer domesticus alive in cage three days.
Mammalia.
Muride.
Mus musculus alive.
Spermatophyta.
MORACEE.
Morus sp.
berry 2.
Aquifoliacee.
Ilex opaca berry red 2.
Disregarded Coleoptera.
Coccinellide.
.
Adalia bipunctata red black and yellow 2.
Hippodamia sp. 1.
.Chrysomelide.
Galerucella luteola yellow and black 3.
Lepidoptera.
Papilionide.
Papilio turnus ad.
Killed dropped when frightened by observer not picked up mainly yellow and black 1.
Hymenoptera.
Apina.
Apis mellifera worker brown 1.
Spermatophyta.
Fagacee.
Fagus grandifolia nuts.
MYRTACEiE.
Citrus sp. whole fruit.
Accepted and Rejected Orthoptera.
Gryllidb.
Gryllus sp. A 1 11 1. coleoptera.
Carabid.e.
Scarites subterraneus black A 2 R 1.
Hydrophilide.
Hydrophilus triangularis shining greenishblack A 2 R 2.
ScARABIDiE.
Ligyrus gibbosus reddishbrown A 17 R 2.
Hymenoptera.
Bombus sp. A 1 R 1.
Xylocopa virginica worker black with yellow hairs A 1 R 1 male A 1.
Mammalia.
Muride. Mus musculus dead A 3 R 1.
Accepted and Disregarded COLEOPTERA.
SCARABEIDE.
Lachnosterna sp.
reddishbrown A 3 D 2.
Hymenoptera.
MYRMICIDiE.
Tetramorium caspitum a minute reddish ant A 1 D many.
Accepted Rejected and Disregarded Orthoptera.
Blattide.
Blattella germanica vellowbrown and dark brown A 16 R 1 D 1.
Coleoptera.
SCARABEIDiE.
Dyscinetus trachypygus black A 5 R2 D 2.
Lepidoptera.
Philosamia cynthia cocoons.
One pecked could not be opened was left two others disregarded were afterwards eaten when cut open.
Spermatophyta.
Fagacee.
Quercus sp.
acorns A 8 D several R. Disregarded and Refused Coleoptera.
Leptinotarsa decemlineata yellow and black D 1 R 2.
Lepidoptera.
Colias philodice ad.
yellow and black D 2 R 1.
Summary Cyanocitta cristata.
 June  Accepted.
Rejected.
Disregarded.
Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens.
Warningly colored species Others specially defended 12 8 15 21  12 29 3 1 5 5 1 5 4 1 7 1 Nonprotected species Accepted and rejected.
Accepted and disregarded.
Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens.
Warningly colored species... 2 1 4 A3 R2 2 1 23 6 
AO 1 3 DO Others specially defended 1  Nonprotected species 2 Warningly colored species Others specially defended.
Nonprotected species Accepted rejected Disregarded and and disregarded.
rejected.
Species.
3 Specimens.
P e  Specimens.
A R D 244 5 2 D3 R3 Imagos of Philosamia cynthia at least among the things accepted are seldom or never encountered by wild bluejays.
This species was imported with its food plant Ailanthus glandulosus and is established in very few places.
The cocoons of this species could not be opened by the jay but when opened for him the pupae were eaten.
Of the items refused hen's eggs are all too often attacked by wild birds  living birds and mice are frequently killed and eaten and mulberries also are eaten under natural conditions.
Among things both accepted and rejected crickets Gryllus and Maybeetles Laclino sterna are commonly devoured by free birds.
The carabid Scarites also has been found in the stomach of this species.
Beechnuts were disregarded by the captive jay and acorns were both disregarded and refused though some were afterwards eaten.
Both of these nuts are frequently eaten by wild jays.
These instances in themselves are sufficient to show that acceptances and rejections by captive birds are no guide to the natural tastes of the species.
English Sparrow Passer domesticus  Accepted COLEOPTERA.
SCARABEIDE. Ldgyrus gibbosus reddishbrown 1.
Spermatophyta.
Gramine.
Panicum sanguinale.
Chcetochloa italica.
Chcetochloa viridis.
Chenopodiace.e.
Chenopodium album.
Ambrosiacee.
A mbrosia a Hem isia 'folia .
Rejected Heteroptera.
Pentatomid.e.
Brockymena arborea dark brown  1 .
Spermatophyta.
Cichoriace.e.
Taraxacum taraxacum heads with akenes.
Accepted and Rejected Spermatophyta.
Amaranthace.e.
Amaranthus sp.
Refused at 9 A.M. when hungry but eaten at 11 same morning.
The fruiting heads of dandelion which were refused are a favorite natural food and Amaranthus seeds which were refused but eaten two hours later are commonly eaten by wild birds of this species.
Snowbird J unco kyemalis  87  Accepted Orthoptera.
Encoptolophus sordidus brown.
Rejected COLEOPTERA.
COCCINELLID.E.
Adalia bipunctata red yellow and black.
SCARAB.EID.E.
Dyscinetus trachypygus black.
87 Partial account of experiments with this and the following two species in Bid.
15 Biol.
Survey 1901 pp.
4548.
Chrysomelide.
Lema trilineata yellow and black.
MELOIDiE.
Epicauta sp.
Spermatophyta.
Chenopodiacee.
Chenopodium sp.
seeds.
The latter seeds are a common natural food.
Whitethroated Sparrow Zonotrichia albicollis   Accepted Heteroptera.
Pentatomid.e.
Murgantia histrionica orange and black.
Other acceptances and rejections same as with Junco and same remark applies.
Song Sparrow Melospiza melodia   Accepted Neuroptera.
Chrysopide.
Chrysopa sp. 1.
Orthoptera.
Encoptolophus sordidus brown 1. coleoptera.
Carabide.
Amara sp. 2.
Anisodactylus terminatus dark brown to greenishblack 1.
Harpalus pennsylvanicus black 1.
Nebria pallipes black legs yellow 1.
Platynus sp. 2.
Pterostichus sayi green 3.
Trogositide.
Trogosita virescens metallic green or blue 1.
CURCULIONIDE.
Sitones sp. 2.
HOMOPTERA.
Jasside nymphs and adults 3.
Heteroptera.
Lygeide 1.
Reduviide 1.
Lepidoptera.
papilionid.e.
Papilio turnus ad.
mainly yellow and black 1.
Moths 2.
Araneida.
Spider 1.
1912.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
343 Spermatophyta.
Caryophyllacee.
Alsine media seeds.
Rejected coleoptera.
Carabid.e.
Various Harpini were refused but later Harpalus pennsylvanicus was eaten.
COCCTNELLIDE.
Adalia bipunctata red black and yellow 1.
Hippodamia sp. 2.
SCARABEIDiE.
Allorhina nitida green and yellow.
Lachnosterna sp.
Chrysomelide.
Diabrotica 12punctata yellow and black several.
Lema trilineata yellow and black.
Meloid.e.
Epicauta sp.
Lepidoptera.
Arctiid.e.
Leucarctia acroea ad.
white yellow and black.
Hymenoptera.
formicid.e.
Black ant probably Camponotus.
Spermatophyta.
Chenopodiace.e.
Chenopodium sp.
PoLYGONACEuE.
Polygonum sp.
Accepted and Rejected coleoptera.
Carabide.
Agonoderus pallipes pale yellow and black ate 2 refused others but next day ate 15 in three minutes.
Chiasmus sp. A 1 R 1.
SCARAB.EID.E.
Dyscinetus trachypygus black A 1 R 1.
Trox sp. A 1 R 2.
 Spermatophyta.
AmARANTHACEjE.
Amaratithus sp.
Refused at first finally starved into eating it.
Cichoriace.e.
Taraxacum taraxacum.
The opened fruiting head was' accepted at the only trial the closed involucres were at first refused several days afterwards 3 were eaten.
Summary Melospiza melodia.
 June Accepted.
Rejected.
Accepted and rejected.
Species.
Specimens.
6 13 5 Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens. 
Warningly colored species.... Others specially defended  Nonprotected species 4 9 3 5 3  2 6 3  2 2 2 A 18 2 R2  3 In rejecting the seeds of Chenopodium and Polygonum this bird refused two favorite items of the food of wild members of its species the bird was only starved into eating Amaranthus seeds another favorite natural food.
Of the rejected insects Camponotus Diabrotica Hippodamia and Lachnosterna have been found in collected stomachs.
The acceptances include at least one insect Papilio turnus which the bird probably never gets under natural conditions.
The experimenter noted that this butterfly would have easily escaped the bird had it not been confined.
Little Butcherbird Lanius ludovicianus  88  Accepted Chilopoda.
Lithobius sp. 1.
Orthoptera.
acridiid.e.
Hippiscus sp. 2.
COLEOPTERA.
SCARABEIDE.
Copris Carolina black 1.
Lachnosterna sp. 1.
Ligyrus gibbosus dead reddishbrown 1.
Osmoderma sp. 1.
Trichius piger greenishblack reddishbrown white both white and yellow hairs 1.
CERAMBYCID.E.
Monohammus sp. 1.
Meloide.
Meloe americana bluishblack vesicating juices 1.
Heteroptera.
Pentatomide.
Euschistus sp. 1.
Nezara hilaris green 1.
88 Partial account in Bui.
SO Biol.
Survey 1907 p. 35.
BELOSTOMATID.E.
Belostoma americanum light brown 1.
Lepidoptera.
Ceratomia catalpce larva black and yellow 2.
Estigmene acrcea ad.
white yellow and black 2.
Euvanessa antiopa ad.
reddishbrown light blue and yellow 2.
Diptera.
Calliphora sp. 2.
Pisces.
Goldfish 1.
Micropterus salmoides 1.
Urodela.
Plethodon cinereus erythronotns brown and red.
Plethodon glutinosus black and white 1.
Reptilia.
Storeria dekayi grayishbrown and black 1.
Heterodon platyrhinus yellow or reddish and brown or black 1.
Sceloporus undidatus gray or brown and black 1.
Aves.
Fringillide.
Passer domesticus
3.  VlREONIDE.
Vireo olivaceus 4.
TrOGLODYTIDjE.
Telmatodytes palustris dead 1.
Mammalia.
Mus musculus 5.
Rejected coleoptera.
Erotylide.
Megalodacne heros black and yellow 1.
Lampyride.
Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus yellow and black 1.
Chrysomelide.
Diabrotica 12punctata yellow and black 4.
Meloide.
Epicauta vittata yellow and black 1.
Heteroptera.
Pentatomide.
Murgantia histrionica yellow and black 1.
Lepidoptera.
Euvanessa antiopa larva black spiny 1 pupa 1.
Hyphantria cunea larva yellow brown and black very hairy 2.
Malacosofna americana larva black white and blue hairy 1.
23 346 June Orgyia leucostigma larva red black white and yellow hairy tufted 1.
Spermatophyta.
Rosacea.
Fragaria sp.
fruit.
Accepted and Refused coleoptera.
Carabide.
Calosoma scrutator metallic blue red and green.
The butcherbird seemed to be staggered by the effluvium of one of the first Calosomas given but devoured it.
Later one was offered it rear end first through the wall of the cage the bird ate part of the viscera then refused to touch it again.
However he ate two the next day.
In all seven were devoured.
SlLPRTDE.
Silpha incequalis black A 1 R 1.
SCARAB.EID.E.
Trox sp. A 1 R 1.
Both the Silpha and the Trox were refused in presence of experimenter but their remains were found in a pellet thrown up by the bird about two hours later.
Hymenoptera.
Apina.
Apis mellifera worker brown A 1 R 1 drone A 1.
Mammalia.
Muride.
Mus norvegicus A 2 R 2.
It is difficult to believe that a bird acting on principle would refuse Epicauta vittata and eat Meloe americana.
Diabrotica is eaten by wild individuals of the species and Silpha which was both accepted and rejected by this bird is a common capture.
Calosomas also are frequently eaten by wild butcherbirds.
Summary Lanius ludovicianus.
 Accepted.
Rejected.
Accepted and rejected.
SpeSpecicies.
mens.
Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens.
Warningly colored species 12 lfi 8 1 12 2 1 2 2 A7 Rl Others ' ' specially defended  4 11 4 21 3 2 Nonprotected species 3 3 Mockingbird Mimus polyglottos .
 Twice chose the grasshopper Encoptolophus sordidus in preference to the Maybeetle Lachnosterna  although the latter is eaten by wild mockingbirds.
Catbird Dumetella carolinensis  89  Accepted Chetopoda.
Earthworm.
Isopoda.
Oniscus asellus 6.
Chilopoda.
Julus sp.
Orthoptera.
Green Acridiid.
coleoptera.
Carabid.e.
Undetermined 11.
Agonoderus pallipes pale yellow and black 1.
Anomoglossus pusillus bluishgreen blue or black.
Bembidium chalceum coppery to greenish or black.
Staphylinide.
Undet.
with red elytra 1.
CoCCINELLHhE.
Undet. 1.
ClJCVJIBM.
Cucujus clavipes larvae 6.
Dermestide.
Dermestes talpinus black with variously colored hairs 4.
ScARAB.EIDE.
Lachnosterna sp.
Onthophagus hecate black.
ChRYSOMELIDjE.
Diabrotica 12punctata yellow and black.
Tenebrionide.
Tenebrio molitor reddishbrown or black 2.
CURCULIONID.E.
Centrinus scutellumalbum gray.
Lepidoptera.
Euvanessa antiopa ad.
reddishbrown light blue and yellow .
Phlegethontius 5maculatus ad.
gray dark brown and yellow.
Hyphantria cunea larva yellow brown and black very hairy 5.
Diptera.
Calliphora erythrocephalus larvae 56 ad.
metallic blue eyes dull red 1.
Musca domestica black and gray 2.
89 Partial account in Yearbook U. S. Dept.
Agr. 1895 1896 p. 410.
Hymenoptera.
formicoidea 7.
Lasius alienus 22.
Cremastogaster linearis pupa 3.
Formica sp. 7.
Camponotus pennsylvanicus 8.
Araneida.
Lycosa sp.
PULMONATA.
Umax sp. 3.
Spermatophyta.
MoRACEiE.
Morus sp. many.
Rejected COLEOPTERA.
BlJPRESTIDE.
Undet. 3 could not break the insects.
Hymenoptera.
Wasp.
Disregarded COLEOPTERA.
Passalus cornutus black.
Lepidoptera.
Euvanessa antiopa larva black spiny.
Accepted and Rejected coleoptera.
Carabide.
Chlcenius sp. A 3 R 5.
Tenebrionide.
Nyctobates pennsylvanicus black A 3 R 3.
Hymenoptera.
Apina.
A pis mellifera workers brown A 5 R 2.
PULMONATA.
Snail large R 1 small A 2.
Spermatophyta.
Rosacea.
Strawberry Fragaria sp.
 A several R several.
AMYGDALACE.E.
Cherry Cerasus sp.
 A 2 R several.
Accepted and Disregarded coleoptera.
Lampyride.
Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus yellow and black D 1 Al. 
Of the insects accepted the larvae of Cucujus clavipes at least 1912.
349 which live under the bark of rotting trees are probably never encountered by wild catbirds but all offered the captive birds were eaten.
Among the forms accepted and rejected the nauseous metallicgreen groundbeetle Chlcenius and the honeybee Apis mellifera are eaten by wild catbirds and both strawberries and cherries are favorite foods as cultivators to their sorrow well know.
A wasp was rejected by the captive birds but many wasps have been found in stomachs of wild catbirds.
The soldierbeetle Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus  both disregarded and accepted in the experiment is eaten under natural conditions.
Summary Dumetella carolinensis.
 Accepted.
Rejected.
Disregarded.
Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens.
SpeSpecicies.
j mens.
Warningly colored species Others specially defended 9 10 11 16 62 80 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 Nonprotected species 1 Accepted and rejected.
Accepted and disregarded.
Species.
Specimens.
Species.
J Specimens.
Warningly colored species 1 1 3 A3 5 5 R5 2 4 Al D 1 Others specially defended Nonprotected species Brown Thrasher Toxostoma rufum  90  Accepted  coleoptera.
Carabide.
Harpalus caliginosus black.
LaMPYRIDjE.
Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus yellow and black.
Chrysomelile.
Leptinotarsa decemlineata yellow and black twice swallowed and thrown up then swallowed again and retained.
Diabrotica 12punctata yellow and black.
90 An account of these experiments with some additional remarks about the bud's preferences for certain human foods and wild berries is in Yearbook U. S. Dept.
Agr. 1895 1896 p. 414.
MeLOIDE.
Epicauta sp.
Heteroptera.
COREIDE.
Anasa tristis brown.
Lepidoptera.
PlERIDE.
Pieris rapce larvae green yellow and black 3.
Arctiid.e.
Caterpillar swallowed but thrown up.
Rejected  Lepidoptera.
Hyphantria cunea larvae yellow brown and black very hairy .
Both of the insects this captive thrasher seemed to have difficulty in keeping down are eaten in the wild state.
All of the other insects accepted belong to specially protected species.
Bluebird Sialia sialis   Accepted ISOPODA.
Oniscus asellus 2.
Orthoptera.
Gryllide.
Gryllus sp. 2.
Coleoptera.
Carabid.e.
Anisodactylus discoideus black and brownishyellow.
Hydrophilide.
Hydrophilus triangularis shining greenishblack ate parts of one broken by bluejay.
Refused Hymenoptera.
Apid.
A pis mellifera worker brown.
Spermatophyta.
AqUIFOLIACEjE.
Ilex opaca berries red.
Disregarded Coleoptera.
coccinellide.
Adalia bipunctata red yellow and black.
1912.
351 Chrysomelide.
Galerucella luteola yellow and black 15 disregarded three times.
Hymenoptera.
Myrmicide.
Tetramorium ccespitum.
Accepted and Disregarded coleoptera.
Scarab.eidye.
Lachnosterna sp. A D. Araneida.
Spider A 3 D. Disregarded and Refused coleoptera.
Carabide.
Scarites subterraneus black D R 3.
Summary Sialia sialis.
 Accepted.
Rejected.
Disregarded.
SpeSpecicies.
mens.
Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens.
Warninglv colored species 1 1 3 5 1 1 2 1 16 Others specially defended 1 Nonprotected species  Accepted and disregarded.
Disregarded and rejected.
Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens.
Warningly colored species 1 1 AO 3 1 DO 1 1 1 DO 1 RO Others specially defended 3 Nonprotected species This bluebird accepted one insect  Hydrophilus triangularis  which very probably is never taken by wild bluebirds.
The ground beetle  Scarites  disregarded and thrice refused by the captive bluebird has been found in collected stomachs of the species.
The same is true of the only berry offered it that of Ilex opaca which the caged bird rejected.
The honey bee which was refused and spiders and Maybeetles which were disregarded as well as accepted are also eaten by wild bluebirds.
General Summary All species of birds .
91  June Accepted 137  97 152 Rejected 30 16  15  Disregarded Accepted and rejected.
Accepted and disregarded. 
Warningly colored  species Others specially defended Nonprotected species 23 3 1 A 31 10 33 R10  5 16 Al 4 4 Dl 2  3 Accepted rejected and disregarded.
Disregarded and rejected.
Warningly colored species.
Others specially defended.. Nonprotected species AO 24 R0 4 DO 5 D3 1 R3 3 Totals.
Warningly colored species Others specially defended.
Nonprotected species Accepted.
169  111 213  Rejected.
43  24 52  Disregarded.
27 6  9 PercentPercentage age disrejected.
regarded.
17.99 17.02 18.97 11.29 4.25 3.28 It appears from this final summary that Judd's captive birds rejected practically the same proportion of the  nonprotected species offered them as of the specially protected group.
The result therefore is quite different from that reached in some other series of experiments.
Although it harmonizes with what we believe is the average influence of preclaceous animals as a whole upon their prey i.e. an indiscriminate one it is no more worthy of respect than other experimental results for the behavior of the animals experimented with did not correspond with the natural habits of their species.
This is amply shown by the cases a few not noted in which the birds would not eat articles of food that have been found in the stomachs of wild individuals of the same species.
This is more than 38 per cent of all the items not specimens offered that were either disregarded or rejected if so large a proportion of the experimental results are manifestly untrustworthy the only safe course is to place reliance in none of them.
11 Includes Buieo platypterus Archilochus colubris Passer domesticus Junco hyemalis Zonotrichia albicollis and Toxostoma rufum for which no summaries were presented in previous pages.
Bibliography of Other Experiments in America.
An annotated bibliography will sufficiently illustrate the character of other American experiments upon the food of birds.
Few of them have any special reference to the efficiency of protective adaptations.
The bibliography does not include citations to papers on aviculture nor on the winter feeding of birds.
These are very numerous and their only merit from our present standpoint is that they afford much proof if proof of the obvious were needed that birds both free and confined will readily accept foods with which their species has never had experience under natural conditions.
Bolles Frank.
Young Sapsuckers in Captivity.
Auk IX No.
2.
April 1892 pp.
109119.
Proof that they can live a long time on a diet of syrup with very few insects.
Carpenter F. H. Screech Owls Breeding in Confinement.
Ornith.. and Oologist 8 No.
12 December 1883 pp.
93 94.
I fed them exclusively on frogs They seemed to prefer them to any other food which led me to believe that they constituted no mean portion of their regular fare when at liberty.
This inference is not supported by the results of stomach examinations.
Dr. Fisher found frogs in only two out of a total of 255 stomachs examined Bui.
3 U. S. Biological Survey 1893 pp.
169173.
Collins C. W. Some Results from Feeding Eggs of Porthetria dispar to Birds.
Journ.
Economic Ent. 3 No.
4 August 1910  pp.
343346.
Some English sparrows and a pigeon were tested.
In all cases it was necessary to force the birds to eat the eggs.
Eggs in dough fed to English sparrow were mostly rejected.
Collins J. W. et al.
Food of Young Ruffed Grouse.
Rep. Comm.
Inland Fisheries and Game Mass. 1900 1901 p. 43.
Some young ruffed grouse which had been fed on maggots lettuce.
and young clover were given grain and as a result died.
Were they also given gravel
F. G. The Pine Grosbeak in Confinement.
Ornith.
and Oologist 9 No.
4 April 1884 p. 41.
Fond of corn meal and milk apple seeds beechnuts and buds and seeds of pine and spruce.
Forbush E. H. Food consumed by two young crows.
Useful Birds and Their Protection.
Mass.
Bd.
Agr. Boston 1907 pp.
4548.
Chiefly concerns the quantity of food.
Toads frogs and salamanders often stated to be distasteful were eaten.
Forbush E. H. and Fernald C. H. The Gypsy Moth Porthetria.
dispar Linn..
Mass.
State Bd.
Agr. 1896.
 n pp.
231 and 239 it is stated that gypsy moth eggs were fed to a confined English sparrow and a crow.
The former ate them voluntarily but did not appear to relish them the latter would not take them except when they were concealed within other food.
It will be noted that in Collins' experiment see above the English sparrow took the eggs only when they were forced upon it.
Herkick F. H. The Home Life of Wild Birds.
New York 1901.
Young kingfishers rejected raw meat but throve on fish in captivity p. 92.
Hodge C. F. Our  iommon Birds.
Nature Study Leaflet Biol.
Ser.
No.
2 Worcester Mass. 1899.
A young cedarbird took flies poke berries cabbage worms edema larvae ants fall web worms a little sparingly bush cranberries and peppermint drops p. 15.
Mockingbirds accepted mealworms and spiders p. 19.
Hodge C. F. Food of Young Ruffed Grouse.
Rep. Comm.
Fisheries and Game Mass. 1903 1904 pp.
182 183.
I tested them with a great variety of prepared foods  grated egg bread crumbs scraped raw meat grated boiled meat grits boiled rice millet and other small seeds grass clover chickweed partridge and wintergreen berries etc.
They would either pay no attention to any of these things or if they did pick at them at all would not do so but once.
Foods accepted were sweet curds earthworms mosquito larvse plant lice mealy bugs thrips mealworms and maggots.
Hodge C. F. A Summer with the Bluebirds.
Bird Lore 6 No.
2 MarchApril 1904.
In my series of feeding tests I brought in a number of potato beetles and thoughtlessly dropped a large larva into an open mouth before observing whether they would take them of their own accord.
I noticed that they picked them up once apiece wiped their bills in disgust and declined to touch them again.
Next morning one of the birds was dead under the perch p. 45.
Hodge C. F. Food of Young Ruffed Grouse.
Rep. Comm.
Fisheries and Game Mass. 1904 1905 pp.
132 133.
Gives a long list of foods accepted pears and peaches were scarcely more than tasted thornapples barberries and black alder berries were not refused but were taken in large quantities they took quantities of all sorts of leaves except grape snowball artichoke and Rosa rugosa.
Thornapples and black alder berries are commonly eaten by wild ruffed grouse.
See Biological Survey Bid.
24 1905 pp.
3638.
Hodge C. F. Food of Ruffed Grouse in Confinement.
Rep. Comm.
Fisheries and Game Mass. 1905 1906 pp.
6568.
Gives names of numerous food items accepted.
Berries of black alder were taken sparingly oats and barley were eaten sparingly peas and beans were refused.
Hodge C. F. Food of Young Ruffed Grouse.
Rep. Comm.
Fisheries and Game Mass. 1907 1908 p. 70.
Two died from swallowing objects too large to pass into gizzard black cricket and large spider.
This certainly was not the cause of death.
A young ruffed grouse's digestive apparatus would quickly dispose of two such softbodied insects.
Hodge C. F. Report .... relative to the Propagation of Ruffed Grouse and Quail in Confinement.
Rep. Comm.
Fisheries and Game Mass. 1908 1909 pp.
6069.
On pp.
60 and 61 Hodge says I encountered a new difficulty against which we must be on our guard in the future.
Striped plant bugs were abundant on the grass and were easily obtained by sweeping with insect nets.
The young chicks of ruffed grouse ate them greedily and simply went to sleep and died as if they had been chloroformed.
These bugs had the strong odor of squash bugs by feeding which to toads Conradi found that thev died as though they had been poisoned with chloroform.
Conradi found that five or six squash bugs might be sufficient to kill a toad and Miss Morse has fed as many as eleven to a bob white at a single meal.
Plant bugs are not so strong as squash bugs and I have observed a toad eat over 250 of them in a day without showing ill effects.
Still while this evidence is not conclusive ....
I think that we should be more careful in future not to feed too many strongsmelling bugs to young grouse chicks.
Dr. Hodge's experience with the young grouse and the bluebird above noted being killed by eating certain insects is unsupported by other testimony and the observations leading to his conclusions are not scientifically exact.
The reference to Conradi's experiments is incorrect.
The toads when confined in small bottles were killed by the vaporized secretions of squash bugs they were not killed by eating the bugs.
The feeding of bobwhites is described on pp.
6467.
He justly remarks The most careful artificial feeding of a flock in confinement cannot approach in variety the food of wild birds p. 64.
Reports of the Massachusetts Commissioners on Fisheries and Game for other years contain notes on the feeding of game birds in captivity but not in relation to protected insects.
Hyslop J.
A.
The False Wireworms of the Pacific Northwest.
Bid.
95 U. S. Bur.
Ent. Part V 1912.
In the discussion of natural enemies p. 84 are reports on experimental feedings of adult Eleodes chiefly to various gallinaceous birds.
Chickens ducks the Reeves pheasant and silver pheasant ate the beetles while turkeys refused them and golden and Lady Amherst pheasants would not notice them.
The author says However these birds seemed quite annoyed by our presence and might have eaten the beetles had they not been frightened.
356 Jenkins W. E. Blue Jay in Confinement.
Ornith.
and Oologist 9 No.
3.
March 1884 p. 36.
Principal foods are meat beechnuts and corn.
The Birds of Ontario in relation to Agriculture.
Out.
Dep.
Agr. Toronto 1901.
On p. 44 are the results as to quantity of cutworms and earthworms experimentally fed to a young robin.
Owen D. E. Notes on a Captive Hermit Thrush.
Auk XIV No.
1 January 1897 pp.
18.
Notes on quantity of earthworms and beef eaten.
Worms from manure hill refused those from garden eaten.
Peckham E. G. Fowls Eating Argiope riparia.
Occas.
Papers Xat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wis. I 1889 p. 72.
This deep black and brilliant yellow spider seems to lack one means of defence common among conspicuous creatures i.e. the possession of a nauseous flavor.
Some chickens to which she was offered ate her with relish.
Reiff W. Some Experiments on the resistance of Gypsy Moth Eggs to the Digestive Fluids of Birds.
Psyche 17 No.
4 August 1910 pp.
161164.
Eggs concealed in other food were fed to a German canary a chaffinch a yellow hammer a Japanese robin a screech owl and a carrier pigeon.
The eggs given to the first three birds were put in pieces of bread.
In each case part of them were picked out and rejected.
For a more complete review of the various experiments in feeding gypsy moth eggs to birds see Auk 28 No.
2 April 1911 pp.
285 286.
Scott W. L. Baltimore Oriole.
Ornith.
and Oologist 8 No.
11 November 1883 p. 86.
He is particularly fond of hardboiled egg bread and finely chopped meat.
Stickney J. H. and Hoffmann R. Bird World Boston 1898.
An unconfined yellowthroated vireo took cankerworms and many black ants pp.
106112.
Treadwell D. The Food of Young Robins.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. VI 1859 pp.
396399.
Discusses amount of earthworms and beef eaten per day.
Weed C. M.and Dearborn N. Food of a Captive Crow.
Birds in Their Relations to Man 1903 pp.
61 62.
On quantity of fish consumed.
Wueelock I. G. Nestlings of Forest and Marsh Chicago 1902.
Young bluebirds were fed yolk of hardboiled eggs cracker crumbs and earthworms p. 34.
Summary.
m the writer's point of view three main conclusions regarding rimental tests of the efficiency of protective adaptations against natural enemies are unavoidable 1 The experiments are very inconsistent  2 They have been misinterpreted and 3 They are not trustworthy guides to behavior under natural conditions.
The Experiments are very Inconsistent.
 Inconsistency in the details of various series of experiments have been set forth in previous pages see pp.
298 300 313 316 and 319.
Inconsistency in the results of entire series is plainly shown by the strongly contradictory conclusions different experimenters have drawn.
Thus Weir Poulton Marshall Pocock and Finn for instance thought their experiments supported the selectionist theories concerning protective adaptations while Butler Manders Punnett Plateau Reighard and Pritchett among others drew just the opposite conclusion.
Beddard's opinion was that distastefulness was not more definitely associated with conspicuous colors than with plain ones.
The characteristic inconsistency of experimental results are described by him in the following language 92 None of these experiments are thoroughly satisfactory it is so difficult to interpret them and they are often contradictory for a bird will eat one day what it has refused before.
The experiments that have been made are like most other statistics  they may be made to prove anything.
The Experiments have been Misinterpreted.
 This charge weighs not so much against the experiments themselves as against their makers but it throws doubt upon the desirability of such tests since the personal equation is so large a factor in the interpretation of results.
Definite instances of misinterpretation have been cited in previous pages 295 303 305316 325 and 328330.
A chronic case is well illustrated by the following quotations from Prof. E. B. Poulton Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1902   A mantis is probably less affected in this respect food preferences by confinement than a vertebrate animal but the same general criticism will probably hold in both cases  that while the rejection of an insect by a not overfed insectivorous animal in captivity is evidence of unpalatability or dislike its acceptance is not sufficient evidence of appreciation or that it constitutes an element of the normal diet.
An insect may be eaten readily in captivity which would be rejected or only eaten under the stress of hunger in the wild state p. 317.
32 Animal Coloration 1892 p. 166.
It has already been pointed out that the acceptance of insects by insectivorous animals in captivity is no proof of their normal likes or dislikes in a wild state.
Such acceptance only proves what their action would be when they had been from some exceptional cause kept without their normal food in its usual quantity and variety.
Hence the fact that Acrseas were devoured by a ground hornbill is no evidence that they are normally eaten except in a lime of unusual hunger.
On the other hand the rejection of two L. chrysippus after three Acrseas had been readily eaten indicate that the former butterfly is decidedly distasteful to this species of bird p. 348  Byblia ilithyia was .... distinguished by baboons from an Acrcea but this by no means proves that the resemblance is not beneficial under natural conditions p. 388 Considering what has been already argued about insecteating animals in confinement the acceptances excluding the Hesperiidse probably do not justify the conclusion that the Lepidoptera were palatable or that they would be sought for in the wild state except under the stress of hunger p. 389.
It has already been pointed out that the refusal or evident dislike of insect food by captive animals is trustworthy evidence of unpalatability while acceptance is not proof of palatability  p. 436.
It is selfevident that this oftrepeated dictum is merely special pleading for the admission of as much as possible of the evidence favorable to the theories and the exclusion of as great a proportion as possible of the evidence that might be unfavorable.
So plain is this fact that even Mr. G. A. K. Marshall collaborator with Prof. Poulton in the paper quoted from severely criticized the Professor's attitude.
He says 93 in part ' There is too emphatic an insistence upon the possibility of error where an insect is accepted for it practically casts suspicion upon every such case.
On the other hand the possibility of error in the other direction is not indicated.
The Experiments are not Trustworthy Guides to Behavior under Natural Conditions.
 The writer is by no means the first to question the analogy of behavior under experimental to that under natural conditions.
The idea is put briefly by L. W. Kline in an article on 'Methods in Animal Psychology 94 Nothing so shrinks and in Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1908 p. 140.
Amer.
Joum.
of Psychol 10 18989 p. 276. hibits completely the fulness and variety of an organism's activities than prison life and fear.
In groups as low even as the Amphibia behavior in confinement is far from natural.
Prof. C. 0.
Whitman found that Necturus ordinarily refused food in captivity on account of its extreme timidity.
He says 95 The first adults which I kept in captivity in a large aquarium refused to eat pieces of raw beef or small fish whether dead or alive.
For months they went on seeming entirely indifferent to any proffered food not paying the least attention so far as I noticed to tempting morsels dropped quietly in front of them or held in suspension before them.
Living earthworms and insect larvae were presented to them all of which were known to be palatable to the creature in its natural habitat but nothing availed to draw attention or elicit any evidence of hunger.
Quiet and wholly indifferent in outward behavior yet the animals were actually starving or wasting away.
Many snakes will not take food in captivity and it is therefore necessary to force food down their throats to prevent death from starvation.
Captivity greatly modifies the behavior of some other reptiles also as is well stated in the following quotation from H. H. Newman In order to understand an animal one must live with it must spend long hours quiet days in thoughtful observation of it as it pursues its daily round of occupations.
This I have had an opportunity of doing and I now feel that I have a really personal acquaintance with at least five species of tortoises Studies of this sort should I believe precede experimental studies for sometimes shyness or weariness might be mistaken for stupidity and sullenness for sluggishness in reaction.
As a rule the more highly organized and alert species of tortoises display when in captivity the greatest degree of sullenness and hence their actions in confinement very poorly represent their true character.
The species on the other hand that are less highly organized are the species that act more nearly normally when in captivity Captivity inhibits normal activity in nearly all tortoises consequently I abandoned at an early stage of my work the observation of specimens in confinement and devoted myself to longcontinued and at times tedious observation of the various species as they live in their active environment Extreme sullenness characterizes the behavior of Aspidonectes 95 Biol.
Lectures 1898 1899 pp.
295 296.
360 while in confinement.
If kept in a room they hide behind furniture and remain motionless for hours and almost days.
When put in aquatic enclosures they immediately bury themselves in the mud and seem to remain there for months.
Nothing will induce them to eat or to take any interest in their surroundings.
If caught while making their nest they are sometimes forced to lay the eggs but never make a nest in confinement.
The eggs are simply dropped about on land or in the water and are usually crushed when found.
None of their normal characteristics are in evidence and it would be a waste of time to attempt to draw conclusions about their disposition or intelligence from their actions in captivity.
96 Prof. Charles W. Hargitt makes a similar but more general criticism of the experimental method of studying animal behavior as follows  I have made the field work emphatic whenever at all practicable.
I have elsewhere 97 emphasized the crying need for larger attention to this phase of experimental work believing that in many cases it is all but impossible to secure trustworthy results as to behavior of animals where the work has been done under such unusual unnatural and artificial conditions as most laboratory provisions afford.
What right has one to assume that the actions of an animal taken rudely from its natural habitat and as rudely imprisoned in some improvised cage are in any scientific sense an expression of its normal behavior either physical or psychical
Is it within the range of the calculus of probability that conclusions drawn from observations made upon an animal in the shallow confines of a fingerbowl but whose habitat has been the open sea are wholly trustworthy
It is no part of my purpose to discredit the laboratory or laboratory appliances as related to such investigations.
They are indispensable.
But at the same time let it be recognized that they are at best but artificial makeshifts whose values unless checked up by constant appeal to nature must be taken at something of a discount.
This must be especially the case with higher organisms.
Some of these may of course be readily domesticated or made more or less at home in aquaria or vivaria but not a few absolutely fret their lives out are never at ease and probably never give expression to a natural reaction under such conditions.
It seems to the writer until one has been able to place his specimens under conditions labits of Certain Tortoises Journ.
of Compar.
Neurology and Psychol XVI 2 March 1906 pp.
126 127 and 135.
Observations on the Behavior of Tubicolous Annelids Journ.
Exp.Zool. Vol.
7 1909 p. 157. approximating the natural or has at least brought them to a state of semidomestication where in food taking evidence of health etc. they are at ease he has small right to dogmatize as to conclusions or presume to make such conclusions the basis of socalled laws of animal behavior.
Not a little of recent investigations along the lines of animal behavior has been vitiated at just this point and must be repeated to be made trustworthy.
The amazing mass of contradictory results which has loaded the literature of recent years is attributable to some extent to this misfortune.
98 With regard to experimentation with captive birds Prof. S. A. Forbes the founder of economic ornithology says 99 This evidently shows only what the bird will eat when restrained of its liberty of such food as may be placed before it and furnishes few data which we can use with safety in making up an account of its food in freedom when foraging for itself.
The state of confinement is so abnormal for a bird that on this account also we can rarely reason from its habits in that state to its ordinary habits.
This method is therefore available only for the solution of a few separate questions.
The assertions of these authors regarding the modifying effects of captivity upon behavior apply more pertinently to no set of experiments than those which have been conceived to be tests of the food preferences of insectivorous animals in relation to protective adaptations.
The writer has asserted that the experiments are not trustworthy guides to behavior under natural conditions and he expects to prove this by citing evidence along two lines viz.
 1 Animals accept in captivity articles of food which they not only do not eat in the wild state but with which their species probably has never had experience and 2 animals reject in captivity articles of food which are not only occasionally eaten by wild members of the species but which may be very important elements of the subsistence as a whole.
1 Acceptances.
 This point really needs no proof.
Universal experience with the feeding of all kinds of captive animals confirm it.
The coarse brown bread containing oats shorts and molasses given to the bears in some zoological parks the choppedup beets carrots potatoes etc. of which the parrots cranes and certain rodents are fond sufficiently illustrate foods relished in confinement by animals 98 Journ.
of Animal Behavior Vol.
2 Xo.
1 JanuaryFebruary 1912 pp.
51 52.
 Bui.
III.
State Lab.
Nat.
Hist. Vol.
I No.
3 1880 pp.
86 87.
24 362 to which they are unknown in the wild state.
The experiments of Pocock and Butler resulting in the acceptance of many British insects by a variety of foreign mammals and birds illustrate the same point.
As noted before the acceptance of butterflies by some of Finn's birds signifies no more concerning their natural food habits than does their acceptance of boiled rice.
It means no more than the eating of silver fish clothes moths and mealworms by Mrs. Nice's bobwhites.
The point need be no further elaborated.
We are forced to conclude that acceptance of various items of food by captive animals is no indication whatever that they are eaten by the same species in the wild state.
2 Rejections.
 This point really follows from analogy the conelusion just cited.
There is no logic in regarding rejections as indicative of natural tastes when acceptances are plainly shown not to be.
But evidence to prove the case is much harder to obtain and it is for this reason that we have been compelled to endure the style of argument that asserts  refusal .... is trustworthy evidence of unpalatability while acceptance is not proof of palatability.
Fortunately however we have information regarding the choice of food by a number of animals both in captivity and under natural conditions.
We have shown that in certain of the experiments with amphibia the animals refused articles of food which they habitually eat in the natural state.
For instance this is true of the refusal by the common toad of the Eastern United States of millipeds Julus squashbugs Anasa tristis and potato beetles Leptinotarsa decemlineata .
Prof. Whitman found that ordinary articles of the natural diet were refused by captive Necturus.
Snakes in particular often refuse all food in confinement.
Is this trustworthy evidence of unpalatability
The writer had the care for a year of six prairie rattlesnakes Sistrurus catenatus.
Live mice and birds put in their cage were killed but not eaten.
No food was taken naturally and they were kept alive only by putting meat well down their gullets with longjawed forceps.
Beddard found that a green woodpecker made great objection to eating a single earwig yet Newstead found twentythree of these insects in the stomach of a wild bird of this species.
Finn found that captive redwhiskered bulbuls refused Acrcea but an observer in India saw the birds feeding the most distasteful insect of the genus to their young.
So little is known regarding the natural food of birds in most countries that few such comparisons can be made.
Fortunately this is not the case in the United States where we have data enough to prove the point.
A selection of the more conspicuous cases of refusal of favorite natural foods by the birds tested by Judd are given in the following tabulation.
Other instances are cited in the summaries of the separate experiments pp.
340 346 349 350 and 351.
Eaten by wild individuals of the Rejected by captive birds.
same species.
A rubythroated hummingbird All of these items are cornrejected small leaf hoppers flies monly eaten by wild birds of fleabeetles and spiders.
this species.
A bluejay refused a hen's egg In a state of nature jays f reliving birds and mice and mulquently break up outlying nests berries.
Acorns also were refused of fowls.
Birds and mice are preyed upon and mulberries are eaten.
Acorns have been found in dozens of stomachs of wild birds and are a very important element of the normal diet.
English sparrows rejected Whole flocks of English sparfruiting heads of dandelion.
rows pass days in rifling the ripe involucres of this plant.
A snowbird a whitethroated These seeds are a common sparrow and a song sparrow renatural food of all three birds fused seeds of lamb's quarters.
The song sparrow rejected also All are eaten by wild song seeds of smartweed and beetles sparrows the smartweed seeds of the genera Diabrotica Hippoin abundance.
damia and Lachnosterna.
These facts show that the feeding reactions of various animals are strikingly modified by confinement.
Some animals refuse items of food which are a favorite with wild individuals of the species some of which may form a notable percentage of the total subsistence.
Others refuse all food.
The birds experimented upon by Judd together disregarded or rejected 108 articles of food.
Fortytwo of these items have been found in stomachs of wild birds of the same species that ignored or refused them in captivity.
Investigations carried on while this paper was in preparation raised this number to 42 from 35 and it must be borne in mind that subsequent stomach examinations will increase never diminish the total.
The experimental indications as to what food items are unattractive or distasteful to the birds thus are proved to be misleading in 42 cases out of 108.
This makes a percentage of error of 38 which will grow larger enough to entirely invalidate the data.
Furthermore it is not probable that the data from any other series of experiments are any more reliable.
The conclusion cannot be avoided therefore that the rejection of various items of food by captive animals does not prove that these items are rejected by the same species under natural conditions.
Conclusion.
It has been demonstrated that behavior of captive animals toward food is not a reliable indication of what wild individuals of the same species would do in the presence of the same food.
In other words since the feeding habits of an animal in captivity may vary widely from its known habits in the natural state there is no avoiding the conclusion that the results obtained under experimental conditions do not indicate the part the animal might play in natural selection.
We must conclude therefore since acceptances and rejections in experiments bear no close relation to food preferences under natural conditions that the value of experiments to determine the efficiency of warning colors and other protective adaptations of prey is very questionable.
Having no certain value in themselves they must be checked up with definite knowledge of the natural food habits.
This information is obtained by collecting animals with freshly captured prey and by examination of pellets castings and the contents of stomachs or other portions of the alimentary canal.
There is no possibility of going back of such evidence on the choice of food nor is there any need of so doing.
Since this evidence is sufficient in itself and since experimental data must be supported by it to be worthy of any consideration why perform the experiments
The same time expended in collecting trustworthy data regarding the natural food habits of animals would bring much greater returns and the result would be truth not imaginative inferences from abnormal behavior.
A NEW SYNALLAXIS.
BY WITMER STONE.
In a collection of birds made by Air.
Samuel N. Rhoads in Ecuador in 1911 and recently acquired by the Academy there are several specimens of a Synallaxis which appears to be undescribed although individuals of apparently the same form have been taken by previous explorers and referred to S. gularis.
From typical S. gularis Lafr.
from Bogota the Ecuador birds differ very decidedly the upper surface is much darker and less tawny while the lower parts are uniform pale tawny olive with no rusty tints on the side nor gray on the breast the white gular patch and superciliaries are not so pure and the white of the lores and frontlet much obscured with brown and gray.
Birds from the Cauca Valley Colombia recently described by Mr. F. M. Chapman as Synallaxis gularis rufipectus are much closer to the Ecuadorian form having the lower parts uniform with no trace of gray on the breast but the colors above and below are much brighter and richer especially the under parts while the bill seems to average stronger and heavier.
The Ecuador bird may be known as Synallaxis gularis pichinchse subsp.
nov.
Type No.
59432 Collection Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia c May 1 1911.
Hacienda Garzon southern foot of Mt.
Pichincha Ecuador 10800 ft. elevation.
Collected by Samuel N. Rhoads.
Upper parts uniform raw umber 1 with a slight russet tinge tail chestnut lower parts uniform pale tawny olive inclining to isabella color slightly darker on the sides of the body gular patch rather dull white narrow superciliaries white lores gray with a dull white stripe above forming the anterior extension of the superciliary.
Wing 58 mm.
Culmen 12 mm.
A female obtained at the same locality May 17 and another male May 5 correspond exactly with the type.
My thanks are due to Mr. F. M. Chapman curator of ornithology in the American Museum of Natural History for the loan of specimens of the new forms of this group recently described by him as well as for typical specimens of S. gularis one of which had been compared with the type.
These specimens were invaluable in determining the relationships of the Ecuador bird.
Colors named according to Ridgway's Nomenclature of Colors Boston 1886.
366 SILICIFIED WOOD FROM THE TRIASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA.
BY EDGAR T. WHERRY PH.D. 1 The occurrence of silicified wood in the Triassic or Newark rocks of the eastern United States was first observed in the Richmond Basin.
Virginia by Thomas Nuttall in 182 1 2 and it was shortly afterward discovered in North Carolina 3 and in Connecticut 4 but its presence in Pennsylvania does not appear to be mentioned in the literature.
5 The inhabitants of southern Bucks and northern Chester and Lancaster Counties have long recognized the character of specimens of it plowed up in their fields but its scientific interest was first realized by Mr. John F. Vanartsdalen.of Holland Bucks Countyabout 1890 who brought it to the attention of the writer several years later.
The western Lancaster County occurrences were discovered independently by Professor H. Justin Roddy of the Millersville State Normal School.
Subsequent search has greatly increased the number of localities so that it is now known to occur at short intervals along the strike of the Triassic rocks near their base  the southern edge of the belt since the clip is for the most part gently northward  from the Delaware River to beyond the Susquehanna a distance of over 100 miles.
These relations are well brought out in the accompanying sketch map and geographical table.
Table I. Localities of Silicified Wood.
B.
Bucks County.
1.
Roelofs Farm of George W. DeCoursey  mile southeast of the station.
2.
Woodbourne On several farms 1 miles north of the station.
1 This paper the fourth of the writer's studies on the Triassic was presented in preliminary form at the meeting of the Academy in association with the Mineralogical and Geological Section on May 18 1909 but publication was deferred until opportunity for completing the work could be obtained the final results being announced at the similar meeting on May 21 1912.
2 Observations on the Geological Structure of the Valley of the Mississippi etc.
 Jour.
An.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. II i p. 37.
Olmsted D. Descriptive Catalogue of Rocks and Minerals Collected in North Carolina Amer.
Jour.
Sci. 1 V p. 261 1822.
4 Hitchcock E. Miscellaneous Notices of Mineral Localities with Geological Remarks Amer.
Jour.
Sci.
1 XIV p. 228 1828.
5 Compare however Prof. O. C. S. Carter A Ferruginised Tree Jour.
Franklin Inst. CXI.
 pp.
227229 189G which perhaps refers to similar material.
1912.
367 3.
Newtown Bed of Neshaminy Creek  miles west of the town.
4.
St. Leonard's Roadside northeast of station.
5.
Rocksville Holland P.
O.
 Fields along north bank of Mill Creek.
6.
Holland Fields south and southeast of the station.
7.
Churchville Fields east of station.
8.
Center Hill Fields along ridge just northwest of village and for 2 miles south west ward.
9.
Spring Valley Fields 1 mile to the southwest.
10.
Doylestown Fields 1 miles south of the town.
M. Montgomery County.
1.
Morganville Trenton CutOff R. R. cut  mile east of station.
2.
Jarrettown Sand quarry  mile northwest of crossroads.
3.
Maple Glen Sand quarry south of house of William Teas  mile east of crossroads this is the ferruginized tree locality.
C. Chester County.
1.
Sheeder Roadside f mile northeast of crossroads.
2.
Coventry ville  Fields on farm of Isaac D. Rosen  mile east of the village.
L. Lancaster County.
1.
Churchtown Fields 2 miles northwest of town.
2.
Elizabethtown Penna.
R. R. cut  mile southeast of station also in fields east and southwest of town.
3.
Bainbridge On several farms about 3 miles to the northeast and on that of Omar Baughman one mile north of the town.
Y. York County.
1.
York Haven In fields about 2 miles to the south and southeast.
368 The wood occurs in fragments of all sizes up to complete trunks a foot or more in diameter and several feet long.
It is usually dark brown in color and almost entirely replaced by granular to minutely crystalline quartz 6 with occasional carbonaceous streaks.
Its original vegetable character is almost always evident to the naked eye although annual rings are never visible and thin sections which are readily prepared by grinding with carborundum after the manner of making ordinary rocksections show under the microscope every structural detail beautifully outlined in brown.
While usually found loose in the fields or along the roads it has been observed in place in several localities and is always associated with the highly arkosic sandstones or conglomerates which mark the lower portions Norristown or Stockton formation of the Triassic.
It is not limited to any narrow horizon however but occurs at various levels throughout a thickness of at least 5000 feet of beds locality M. 1 for instance being at the very base and B.
3 at the top of that formation.
The material found outside of Pennsylvania has all been referred to three species Araucarioxylon virginianum A. woodworthi and  ' droxylon huttonianum  the first being the most widely distributed.
As a result of the examination of some sixty specimens about half of which were sectioned by Mr. Vanartsdalen two new species have been recognized which are here described as Araucarioxylon vanartsdaleni and Brachyoxylon pennsylvanianum.
The present paper is not to be regarded as the last word upon the subject however as it is possible that the discovery of additional material may throw further light on the status and relationships of these species.
Genus ARAUCARIOXYLON Kraus.
Araucarioxylon virginianum Knowlton.
Plate III figs.
13.
Fossil Wood and Lignite of the Potomac and Newark Formation Bull.
U. S. Geol.
Surv. No.
56 pp.
5052 pi.
VII 1889.
A Revision of the Genus Araucarioxylon of Kraus Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XII p. 615 1889 and Amer.
Jour.
Sci. 3 XL p. 257 1890.
Report on some Fossil Wood from the Richmond Basin Virginia Ann.
Rept.
U. S. Geol.
Surv. XIX pt.
ii pp.
516 517 pi.
LII 1899.
Description of a Small Collection of Fossil Wood from the Triassic Area of North Carolina Ann.
Kept.
V. S. Geol.
Surv.
XX pt ii pp.
272274 pi.
XXXVII 1900.
Report on Fossil Wood from the Newark Formation of South Britain Conn. Ann.
Rept U. S. Geol.
Surv. XXI pt hi pp.
161 162 1901.
Transverse Section Annual ring indistinct tracheids thick c Chemical analysis of a Lancaster County specimen from L. 3 by Prof.
Miles Timlin of the M illersville State Normal School showed Si0 2  96.5 1 ' 1.2'   the remainder being carbonaceous matter.
Cf.
PI.
IV fig.
6. walled moderately large about 0.04 mm.
in diameter in radial rows.
Radial Section Tracheids long thick walled bordered pits in one or frequently two series wdien in one in contact and flattened in two closely packed alternate strongly hexagonal and nearly covering the walls of the cells diam.
0.016 to 0.021 mm.
 medullary rays long without pits resin ducts none.
Tangential Section Rays simple of 1 to 27 usually 1012 cells about 0.025 mm.
in diameter no pits on walls but crosssections of radial wall pits prominent.
Occurrence This species hitherto found near the base of the Triassic in North Carolina Virginia and Connecticut is now reported for the first time from Pennsylvania being occasionally found at localities B.
2 and B.
5.
Relationship Araucarioxylon Dadoxylon rhodeanum Goppert from the Permian of Silesia appears from descriptions to be very similar to this species but distinctive features would no doubt be found if wellpreserved specimens could be compared.
Araucarioxylon vanartsdaleni ap.
nov.
Plate III figs.
36.
Transverse Section  Annual ring indistinct  tracheids averaging 0.03 mm.
in diameter thick walled.
Radial Section Tracheids long thick walled with bordered pits diam.
0.0150.020 mm.
usually in single rows barely touching and but little compressed about one cell in every fifty with double rows which are alternate and hexagonal medullary rays long at least no partitions preserved without pits resin ducts absent.
Tangential Section Ray cells rather small diam.
0.02 mm.
 up to 10 in one row though usually 5 or 6 pits absent.
Occurrence This appears to be the most widespread form in the Triassic of Pennsylvania occurring at practically every locality on the list.
Relationship When first examined all of the wood with contiguous pits was referred to A .
virginianum but the study of a large number of specimens indicates that there are probably two distinct species represented and the one characterized here differs from A. virginianum as well as from A. woodworthi Knowlton which occurs near the top of the Triassic in Virginia in the fewercelled medullary rays and the predominance of the uniserial arrangement of the pits.
It is therefore regarded as new and named after its discoverer.
Its nearest relative in other regions is A. wurtemburgiacum Goppert which is a Jurassic form but there is no reason to suppose them to be really identical.
Genua BRACHYOXYLON Hollick and Jeffrey.
Brachyoxylon pennsylvanianum sp.
nov.
Plate IV figs.
15.
Cedroxylon .'
pennsylvanianum the writer's communication to the Academy May 18 L909.
Peuce huttoniana Witham 
Rogers W. B. Exhibition of Specimens with Remarks.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. V pp.
17 18 1854.
Transverse Section Annual ring distinct tracheids about 0.035 mm.
in diameter medium walled.
Radial Section Tracheids long medium walled bordered pits 0.010 to 0.012 mm.
in diameter in one or rarely two series circular not quite touching when double in part distant and subopposite yet in other places in the same sections alternating and hexagonal medullary rays long without pits resin ducts absent.
Tangential Section Rays simple containing from 2 to 30 cells usually 79 about 0.02 mm.
wide no bordered pits visible.
Occurrence and Relationships While the majority of the specimens of silicified wood show the araucarian type of structure a few fragments found at four or five localities differ in having distinctly separated and more or less opposite bordered pits.
According to Kraus's classification this material should therefore be referred to the genus Cedroxylon as was done in the writer's preliminary report.
But the variation in the character of the pits in different parts of the same section suggests its probable identity with the new genus Brachyoxylon Hollick and Jeffrey 7 in which both alternating double and noncontiguous single rows of pits are present.
The occurrence of this type of structure in so early a geological period as the lower Triassic is interesting although in the absence of any information as to the leaves or other external characters of the plant discussion of its relationships or significance would be futile.
In searching for evidence as to the age of the Middle Secondary rocks in Virginia Rogers had made a microscopical examination of silicified wood from both western and eastern belts and thought ii structure  to agree very nearly with the fossils figured by Witham under the name of Pence Huttonia.
 He unfortunately never 7 .Studies of Cretaceous Coniferous Remains from Kreischerville N. Y. Mem.
N. '.
Hot.
Gard. Ill pp.
T.457 pi.
XIII 1909.
8 Witham II.
T. M. The Internal Structure of Fossil Vegetables p. 70 pi.
13 reclassified as Cedroxylon huttonianum by Kraus Schimper's i PaUontologie Vegetale II p. 371 1870. published the exact localities from which it had been obtained but it may have been identical with the species here characterized although in the writer's opinion this is more like C. lindleyanum Witham Kraus.
Both of these species had been described from the Lias of England and Rogers accordingly inferred the Jurassic age of the American rocks but there can be no question that our form is really entirely distinct from either and it is named after the State in which it was discovered.
The distribution of these species is shown in the following table material from localities M. 2 and M. 3 could not be obtained for study.
Locality B.
123456789 10 A. virginianum X X A. vanartsdaleni X X X X X X X X X X B. pennsylvanianum X X X Locality M. 1 2 3 C.l 2 L.l 2 3 Y.l A. virginianum A. vanartsdaleni X  X X X X X B.
'pennsylvanianum X X In conclusion a word may be added concerning the bearing of the fossil wood on the question as to the climate of the Triassic.
A prevailing red color in the sediment of any period has now come to be recognized by geologists as an indication that the climate of the time was to some extent arid.
The obscurity of the annual ring in these trees may be regarded as pointing to a certain extent 9 in the same direction for it shows that there could not have been any marked seasonal variation in temperature conditions and the simplest way in which this could occur would be under the prevalence of a dry climate caused perhaps by some peculiarity of configuration of continents or elevation of mountains which produced a different circulation of the atmosphere from that prevailing here at present.
The arkosic matrix of the wood specimens from the feldspar of which their silica has been derived is also suggestive of the same state of affairs for it must have been formed under conditions where disintegration exceeded decomposition so that the feldspar and other silicates could be broken up without extensive chemical alteration and although this could result equally well in frigid as in arid climates there is no direct evidence for the former so that the 9 Although the value of this evidence is limited by the fact that living araucarias show little annual ring even though growing in temperate climates.
latter remains as the most probable climatic condition of the Triassic period in Eastern North America.
Explanation of Plates III IV.
Plate III.
 Fig.
1.
 Araucarioxylon virginianum Knowlton.
Locality B.
5.
Transverse section X 20.
No definite annual ring.
Fig.
2.
 .Same.
Radial section X 40.
Shows several double rows of pits.
Fig.
3.
 Same.
Tangential section X 40.
Shows crosssection of medullary rays and of radial wall pits.
Fig.
4.
 Araucarioxylon vanartsdaleni sp.
nov.
Locality B.
5.
Transverse section X 20.
No annual ring.
Fig.
5.
 Same.
Radial section X 40.
Shows one of the very rare double rows of pits.
Fig.
6.
 Same.
Tangential section X 40.
Shows fewcelled rays.
Plate IV.
 Fig.
1.
 Brachyoxylon pennsrjlvanianum sp.
nov.
Locality C. 1.
Transverse section X 20.
Shows distinct annual ring of four layers of small cells just above middle.
Fig.
2.
 Same.
Radial section X 40.
Shows single rows of pits distinctly separated.
Fig.
3.
 Same.
Tangential section X 40.
Shows medullary rays.
Fig.
4.
 Same.
Another radial section X 40.
Shows several double rows of pits which are only partially alternate.
Fig.
5.
 Same as figure 4 but X 100.
Fig.
6.
 The section shown in Plate III fig.
3 under crossed nicols X 40 showing the complete replacement by crystalline quartz.
AGE AND CORRELATION OF THE NEW RED OR NEWARK GROUP IN PENNSYLVANIA.
BY EDGAR T. WHERRY PH.D. 1 The socalled New Red or Newark group of rocks of the Eastern United States has heretofore been almost universally regarded as a geologic and paleontologic unit and correlated with the Rhsetic or uppermost Triassic of Europe.
Mr. Benj.
Smith Lyman Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section who was the first to make a detailed study of any portion of these beds found them in eastern Pennsylvania to be unexpectedly thick 27000 feet and capable of considerable subdivision and accordingly put forward the suggestion that the group is not all of the same age but that its deposition began in some portion of the late Paleozoic and continued throughout the Triassic and perhaps even into the Jurassic.
2 This view was considered briefly by Ward 3 and cast aside but the question has never been really settled and is here reopened and discussed in detail.
The Paleozoic age of the lowermost beds was inferred by Mr. Lyman from the supposed occurrence of Lepidodendron of Lower Carboniferous type at Newark N. J. Calamites of Permian age at Holicong Bucks County Pa. Dendrophycus of Devonian aspect at Portland Conn. To which may be added silicified wood related to Permian species of Europe as described by Knowlton 4 and by the writer.
5 The identification of the Lepidodendron was made by Lesquereux on a photograph of a poorly preserved fragment and must therefore at best be regarded as doubtful even had no other examination of the material ever been made.
But Newberry 6 and Fontaine 7 studying the same or a similar specimen agreed that it represents a conifer probably Abies or Palissya while Berry thinks that all that can be safely said is that it is the decorticated trunk of a gym1 The subjectmatter of this paper has been presented in the form of occasional notes at meetings of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy.
2 Age of the Newark Brownstone Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc XXXIII pp.
510 and Some New Red Horizons ib. pp.
192215 1894.
3 Status of the Mesozoic Floras of the U. S. Ann.
Rept.
U. S. Geol.
Surv. XX pt.
ii pp.
218221 1900.
4 Fossil Wood and Lignite of the Potomac and Newark Formation Bull.
U. S. Geol.
Surv. No.
56 p. 52 1889.
5 Preceding paper.
6 Fossil Fishes and Fossil Plants of the Triassic Rocks of New Jersey and the Connecticut Valley Mon.
U. S. Geol.
Surv. XIV pp.
94 95 1888.
7 In Ward's Status of the Mesozoic Floras of the U. S. Ann.
Rept.
U. S. Geol.
Surv. XX pt.
ii p. 219 1900.
aosperm.
8 As a matter of fact the buildingstone beds from which it was obtained are stratigraphically many thousand feet above the base of the Triassic.
The Calamites from Bucks County discovered many years ago by Mr. John S. Ash had been identified by Lesquereux as Calamites m nanus a Triassic species 9 and later by Dr. N. L. Britton 10 as Schizoneura laticostata or planicostata  a form occurring in the Upper Triassic of Virginia.
As there still seemed to be a possibility however that the fossil was of Permian age the writer in 1908 carried on excavations at the locality and sent the material then obtained together with specimens of this plant and a cycad previously collected by Mr. Ash and by the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy to the United States National Museum for identification.
It was there examined by Messrs. David White and F. H. Knowlton the foremost authorities on Carboniferous and Triassic plants respectively and they reported as follows The equisetalean stem fragments probably belong to Schizoneura with which they accord fairly well.
The gymnospermous fragment seems to belong to Cycadites and has many characters in common with C. tenuinervis of the southern Newark.
The material affords no evidence of Paleozoic age the equisetalean specimens being generally unlike the Paleozoic Calamites and Equisetites while the genus Cycadites is unknown in the cosmopolitan Permian flora.
11 Though of relatively little value the data embraced in .his collection points toward Triassic age.
The  dendrophycus  is of no diagnostic value because it is of inorganic origin representing a rillmark 12 and of course water flowed over mud about the same in the Triassic as in the Carboniferous period.
So there remains to be considered only the silicified wood.
Of the three species found in Pennsylvania one has its nearest relative in the Permian of Europe although the other two are more like Jurassic forms as pointed out in the preceding paper.
The apparent similarities would no doubt largely disappear however if wellpreserved material were available for direct comparison for pub8 A Brief Sketch of Fossil Plants Ann.
Rept.
Stale Geol.
N. J. 1905 p. 124 note 2 No.
5.
'Lewis II.
C. A Great Trap Dyke Across Southeastern Pennsylvania.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Sac XXII p. 453 1883.
10 Exhibition of Specimens.
Trans.
N. Y. Acad.
.... V p. 17 1885.
1 Although Goppert described two species from t a Carboniferous limestone of Silesia Beitrage zur Kenntniss Fossiler Cycadeen Neues Jahrb.
Min.
Paleont. 1866 pp.
131 132 pi.
II.
E. T. W. Lull R. S. The Life of the Connecticut Trias Amer.
Jour.
Sci. 41 XXXIII p. 403 1912.
1912.
375 lished descriptions and figures necessarily leave much to be desired as far as really complete characterization is concerned.
Furthermore it is generally recognized that because of the relative stability of internal structures as compared with external characters identification for purposes of correlation must be based on the latter indeed plants may pass from one formation or even period to another with the former apparently unchanged and of all types of structure that of the araucarias is the most persistent extending from the Devonian down to the present time.
It appears therefore that there is actually not the slightest foundation for the idea that the deposition of the Newark group began during the Permian or any other portion of the Paleozoic.
But it is not by any means certain that more than one limited subdivision of the European Triassic may not be represented within its bounds.
For purposes of comparison a table of the subdivisions which have been recognized both here and in Europe is added.
Table I. Subdivisions of the Triassic.
Pennsylvania.
13 New Jersey.
14 Great Britain.
15 Germany.
15  Brunswick 12000 feet.
Rhaetic 250 feet.
Rhaetic 500 feet.
Sale f W1  16000 feet.
Upper Keuper 3000 feet.
Keuper 1000 feet.
Lower Keuper 450 feet.
Lettenkohle 230 feet.
Gwynedd Lockatong 3600 feet .
3500 feet.
Muschelkalk Variegated sandstone 2000 feet.
1000 feet.
Norristown 5500 feet Stockton 4700 feet Bunter 1500 feet.
13 Lyman op.
cit. p.
197.'
and Report on the New Red of Bucks and Montgomery Counties Summo Final Report Penna.
2d Geol.
Surv. Ill pt.
ii pp.
25892638 1895.
Thic nesses somewhat modified in accordance with later work.
14 Kummel H. B.
The Newark System  Report of Progress Ann.
Rept.
State Geol.
N. J. 1896 pp.
3455 thicknesses p. 59.
15 Von Huene F. Eine Zusammenstellung iiber die Englische Trias etc. Cerdr.
Min.
Ueol.
Raleont. 1908 p. 16 thicknesses from various sources.
376 A few words should be added concerning the nomenclature of the America formations.
The upper portion of the Newark was divided by Mr. Lyman as shown in the table into three members the Lansdale a soft red shale followed by the Perkasie described as harder and darker in color and the Pottstown again soft and red.
The writer has not been able to recognize the validity of this subdivision as the Perkasie at its type locality as well as at several other places contains various secondary minerals such as quartz epidote and stilbite and other zeolites which are seen in microscopic sections to fill the spaces between the grains and are also often crystallized out in crevices showing it to be merely a metamorphosed phase of the otherwise soft red sediments.
It is therefore most convenient to treat these three formations as a unit for which the name Brunswick first applied to the New Jersey area may well be adopted.
For the two lower formations the Pennsylvania names have priority but since the New Jersey ones have been rather widely used it seems necessary to give both to insure against any misunderstanding.
While the earlier observers were inclined to consider the fossils of the American Newark as equivalent to forms from the Rhsetic of Europe  the transition stage between the Triassic and Jurassic periods  the plants were shown by Stur 16 to match most closely those of the German Lettenkohle or lower Keuper and more recently Dr. C. R. Eastman 17 has found the fish fauna to have its analogue in that of the upper Muschelkalk and the lower Keuper of the Alpine Province.
In all of these discussions it has been taken for granted that the Newark is a geologic and paleontologic unit and it must be admitted that little definite evidence to the contrary has as yet been obtained but it seems incredible that the enormous thicknesses of beds developed here could all be represented by two or three hundred feet of the foreign Triassic.
Mr. Lyman's plea for the more definite placing of fossil occurrences in the stratigraphic column is therefore worthy of more attention than it has received for it is only by so doing that we can ever hope to learn the true relations and equivalences of the beds.
A geographical table of the more important fossil localities of Pennsylvania exclusive of those of silicified wood which were given 6 Die LunzerLettenkohlen Flora in den Older Mesozoic Beds of the Coal Field of Eastern Virginia Verh.
KK.
Geol.
Reichsanst. 1888 pp.
203217.
7 Triassic Fishes of Connecticut Bull.
Conn. Geol.
Nat.
Hist.
Surv. No.
18 .pp.
2325 1911. in the preceding paper is here introduced.
The locality numbers correspond to those on the accompanying map.
B.
Bucks County.
1.
Wycombe Quarries  mile south and 1 mile southwest of station.
Upper part of the GwyneddLockatong formation.
Estheria ovata Lea.
Other Crustacea and fish scales.
2.
Holicong Mr. John S. Ash's farm  mile northwest of the crossroads.
For references see above.
At least 3000 feet below the top of the NorristownStockton formation.
Schizoneura sp.
Cycadites sp.
cf.
tenuinervis Fontaine.
3.
Carversville  Road metal quarry f mile to the east.
A. P. Brown New Cycads and Conifers from the Trias of Pennsylvania.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1911 pp.
1721 pi.
IV.
Transition beds between the NorristownStockton and the GwyneddLockatong formations.
Podozamites formosus Brown.
Zamites velderi Brown.
Palissya diffusa Emmons Fontaine. 
obtusa Brown.
Cheirolepis munsteri Schenk. 
latus Brown.
M. Montgomery County.
1.
Gwynedd Tunnel P.  R.
Ry. north of Gwynedd Valley station.
Cope Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia Reptilia and Aves of North America.
Trans.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc XIV pp.
170175 1871.
Also other references by Leidy and Lea in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1859 etc.
Middle of the GwyneddLockatong formation of which it is the type locality.
Numerous bones of a pterosaur Rhabdopelix lorigispinis Cope.
Various fish scales and reptile teeth.
2.
Areola Perkiomen R. R. cuts  mile and f mile southeast of station.
Bottom of GwyneddLockatong.
Estheria ovata Lea.
Fish scales.
3.
Yerkes Perkiomen R. R. cut near station.
Leidy Fish Remains of the Mesozoic Red Shales.
Proc.
Acad.
NatSSci.
Phila. 1876 p. 81.
Base of Brunswick.
A few fish scales Radiolepis elegans Emmons.
4.
Graters Ford Fishers quarry 1 mile northwest of station.
Lower part of Brunswick.
Fossil footprints of several species.
C. Chester County.
1.
Pheenixville  P.  R. Ry.
tunnel  mile north of station.
Has been the subject of numerous papers the most elaborate of 25 7 July which is that of Wheatley Remarks on the Mesozoic Red Sandstone of the Atlantic Slope and Notice of the Discovery of a Bone Bed Therein.
Amer.
Jour.
Sci. 2 XXXII pp.
4148 1861.
Middle of GwyneddLockatong formation.
Plants species of Equisetum Pterozamites and Ctenophyllum.
Estheria ovata and other Crustacea.
Fish scales.
Reptile teeth and bones.
L. Lehigh County.
1.
Hosensack Road cut somewhere southwest of the village.
Lea Description of a Fossil Saurian of the New Red Sandstone Formation of Pennsylvania with some Account of that Formation.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2 II pp.
185202 PI.
XVIIXVIV 1854.
Middle of the Brunswick.
Reptilian bones Clepysaurus pennsylvanicus Lea.
Y. York County.
1.
York Haven and vicinity.
Wanner and Fontaine in Ward's Status of the Mesozoic Floras of the U. S. loc.
cit. pp.
233255 1900.
Middle of the GwyneddLockatong.
Numerous fossil plants.
2.
Emigsville Copper prospects 2 miles northwest.
Frazer and Cope Fossils from York County Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc XXIII pp.
403 404 1886.
Reptile bones and teeth.
Nearly all of these localities as pointed out by Mr. Lyman are GwyneddLockatong formation.
As this consists of a series carbonaceous and calcareous rocks no doubt representing a time of swamp development attributable to a temporary modification of climatic conditions which would of course affect the whole region at the same time the fossils from the various places could hardly be expected to be otherwise than equivalent.
It is these that are used in correlation of the Newark with the European Keuper.
The only fossil locality at any considerably lower horizon is that at Holicong Bucks County B.
2.
The forms occurring there are unfortunately not specifically identifiable and so can throw little light on the age of the beds.
But since both Cycadites and Sehizoneura are genera which are found in the Bunter or lower Triassic of Europe it is by no means impossible that the NorristownStockton formation is really the approximate equivalent of that horizon which it certainly closely resembles lithologically.
Because of the total absence of fossils of diagnostic value in the upper 10000 feet of the Brunswick formation in Pennsylvania its exact position is also indeterminate.
It further does not seem advisable to attempt extrapolation into other districts where the succession of formations is in general quite different from that here outlined.
But the absence of beds of uppermost Triassic or even of Jurassic age can in no way be regarded as certain.
It is to be concluded then that there is no evidence whatever of the deposition of any part of the New Red or Newark group during the Permian period but since all of the fossils of diagnostic value indicating middleupper Triassic age have come from a rather limited horizon about the middle of the group we are not justified in concluding either that the whole group is of the same age or that the Bunter sandstone below and the upper Keuper or Rhsetic above are not represented in the American rocks.
si
