NEW OR LITTLEKNOWN CRANEFLIES FROM THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA.
TIFULID5 DIPTERA.
BY CHARLES P. ALEXANDER.
During the past few years the various collections of cranefiies in the Eastern United States have been examined by the author ' and observations made upon the more uncommon and lessknown species..
The following paper deals with the new species discovered the corrections in synonomy and the geographical distribution of insufficiently known forms.
The collections examined are those of the United States National Museum through the kindness of Mr. Knab.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia through Mr. Cresson the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge through Mr. Henshaw the Boston Society of Natural History through Mr. Johnson and the private collections of Dr. W. G. Dietz Mr. C. W. Johnson and Mr. M. C. Van Duzee.
The Loew and Osten Sacken types are in the Museum of Comparative Zoology excepting Triogma exculpta Osten Sacken which is in The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Coquillett's types and the Limnobinse described by Doane in his first paper are in the National Museum.
The species described by Mr. Johnson are in The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia the Boston Society of Natural History or in the private collection of the describer.
Family TIPULID.
Subfamily LIMNOBIN.E.
Tribe Limnobini.
Genus DICRANOMYIA Stephens.
1829.
Dicranomyia Stephens Cat.
Brit.
Ins. vol.
2 p. 243.
Dicranomyia nelliana sp.
n. Color gray wings with vein Sc short membrane hyaline with abundant brown spots and dots.
Male length 5.5 mm.
 wing 7.5 mm.
Rostrum palpi and antennae dark brown the segments of the antennal flagellum rounded oval.
Head gray.
Thoracic dorsum gray the prsescutum with a large dark brown spot in front whose exact limits behind are uncertain due to the injury done to the thorax by the pin scutum gray medially the lobes yellow outwardly black on the inner part of the lobe scutellum gray medially black on the sides postnotum blackish gray.
Pleurae gray.
Halteres yellow the knob darker.
Legs coxse and trochanters dull yellow femora yellowish brown the tip broadly dark brown tibiae light brown the tip narrowly dark brown tarsal segments 1 and 2 light brown the tips of the segments brown segments 3 to 5 brown.
Wings hyaline with abundant brown markings in all the cells including a series of four large marks along the costa the third at the origin of Rs and the fourth at the stigma venation PI.
XXVII fig.
22 Sc short encUng opposite the origin of Rs basal deflection of Cui before the fork of M. Abdomen with the basal tergites dull brownish yellow dark brown laterally segments 6 to 8 dark brown the hypopygium yellow sternites dull light yellow the lateral margin of the sclerites brown segments 6 to 8 uniformly darker.
Holotype cf  Colorado in the U. S. National Museum.
This is the only North American species with the short subcosta that has the wings so spotted superficially this insect resembles simulans Walker which has a long subcosta Init in the details it is quite a different fly.
Dicranomyia reticulata Alexander.
1912.
Furcomyia reticulata Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
44 pp.
3.34 335 pi.
11 fig.
p. One female from Biscayne Bay Dade Co. Fla. taken by Mrs. Slosson constitutes the first record for the United States.
Genus EHIPIDIA Meigen 1818.
Rhipidia Meigen Syst.
Beschr. vol.
1 p. 153.
Rhipidia Rhipidia bryanti Johnson.
1909.
Rhipidia bryanti Johnson Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History vol.
34 pp.
123 124 pi.
16 fig.
20.
This showy Rhipidia has been bred from decaying wood underneath bark by Mr. R. C. Shannon at Washington D. C. The male has never been described but has been found several times the antennae in this sex are bipectinate.
The collections of Dr. Dietz Mr. VanDuzee and the National Museum indicate a wide range for this species.
Orono Penobscot Co. Me. June 30 1913 Alexander.
East Aurora Erie Co. N. Y. June 15 1912 VanDuzee.
Plummers Island Md. September 4 1904.
Potomac Park Washington D. C May 11 1913 Shannon.
Black Mts. Buncombe Co. N.
Car. June 16 1912 Beutenumller.
Braidentown Manatee Co. Fla. March Van Duzee.
Clear Creek Clear Creek Co. Col. June 10 1912 Osier.
Kirbyville Jasper Co. Tex. March 21 1908 E. S. Tucker.
Rhipidia Arhipidia schwarzi Alexander.
1912.
Rhipidia schwarzi Alexander Bulletin of the Brooklyn Entomological Society vol.
8 pp.
13 14 pi.
1 fig.
e. One female from Biscayne Bay Dade Co. Fla. taken by Mrs. Slosson.
Three females from Braidentown Manatee Co. Fla. taken in IVIarch 1913 by Mr. M. C. Van Duzee.
Rhipidia Arhipidia shannoni spn. Antennte subpectinate black thoracic dorsum without a broad pale margin in front postnotum velvety black wings Avith a few dark brown spots and with abundant gray dots in all the cells.
Male length 4.95.1 mm.
 wing 6.76.8 mm.
Female length 5.45.6 mm.
 wing 5.87.2 mm.
Rostrum palpi and antennae black.
Head gray.
Mesonotal prsescutum yellowish brown without distinct markings except behind near the suture where there are two brown spots on either side of the median line narrowly separated from one another a more linear mark on either side scutum very light yellow medially darker on the lobes with a dark brown ring on each lobe scutellum light yellow with a dusky mark on either side of the middle line postnotum with a deep velvety black triangle mth its point behind the sclerite pale on the sides.
Pleurge brown with a gray bloom wnth two narrow brown stripes the more dorsal less cleancut the ventral one narrow welldefined beginning on the fore coxa traversing the bases of the other coxae.
Halteres brownish yellow.
Legs coxae yellow brown at the base on the outer face trochanters dull yellow femora yellowish brown tibiae and tarsi yellowish brown the two apical segments of the latter black.
Wings light yellow with a few large broAvn spots as follows a large one beyond the middle of vein Sc smaller ones above the arculus origin of Rs tip of Sci and a large rounded spot at the stigma paler seams along the cord and outer end of cell 1st M abundant pale gray dots in all the cells venation PL XXVII fig.
23.
Abdomen grayish brown the pleural line narrowly dark.
Holotype d' Plummers Island Md. June 14 1913 R. C. Shannon .
Allotype 9  topotypic August 18 1912 J. R. IVIalloch.
Paratype cf Cabin John.
Md. August 30 Fred'k Knab 9 Gatun Canal Zone Panama December 12 1912 at light J. Zetek.
Related to R. multiguttata Alexander Guatemala and in my key to the species of this genus it would run down to this form.
It differs widely in its wingpattern which resembles that of certain members of the suhpectinata group annulicornis Enderlein schwarzi Alexander in the prominent rounded dark spots at the base of the sector and at the stigma.
The thoracic pattern especially the velvety black postnotum separates this species off from any of the described forms.
This species is named in honor of Mr. Raymond C. Shannon assistant to Mr. Knab in the Department of Dipterology at Washington Avho collected the type and who has reared many interesting cranefiies.
Tribe Antochini.
Genus TEUCHOLABIS Osten Sacken.
1859.
Teucholabis Osten Sacken Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 222.
Teucholabis rubescens sp.
n. Head and abdomen black thorax red wings dark colored legs brownish black.
Male length G.87 mm.
 wing 7.17.3 mm.
Rostrum short dark brown palpi dark brownish black.
Antennae dark brownish blackthe flagellar segments rounded.
Head black.
Pronotum dark brown.
Mesothorax reddish orange.
Halteres brown the knobs darker.
Legs coxae and trochanters dark brown femora brownish yellow at base darkening to the tip tibiae and tarsi dark brownish black.
Wings with a decided brown tinge stigma rather distinct small veins dark brown venation PI.
XXVII fig.
24.
Abdomen dark brownish black.
Holotype d Rio Ruidoso White Mts. N.
Mex. alt.
about 6500 feet July 25 hovering around trunlcs of mountain cottonwood C. H. T. Townsend.
Paratype cf topotypic.
Related to T. flavithorax Wiedemann in the bright colored thorax and dark wings it is a smaller species with the wings much lighter colored the stigma smaller and more distinct the femora with the bases brighter colored not entirely jetblack.
In flavithorax the legs are stout and covered with long conspicuous hairs while in rubescens the hairs are not conspicuous the basal tarsal segments of flavithorax are light jellow conspicuously lighter colored than the Bulletin of the Bronl'Jyn Entomological Society vol.
S pj.
7 Si 1912. tibiae but in rubescens the tarsi are dark brown concolorous with the tibiae.
Tribe Eriopterini.
Genus ERIOPTERA Meigen.
1803.
Erioptera Meigen Illiger's Magaz. vol.
2 p. 262.
Subgenus MESOCYPHONA Osten Sacken.
1869.
Mesocyphona Osten Sacken Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.
4 p. 152.
Erioptera Mesocyphona rubia sp.
n. Dark brownish black wings dark brown with white spots and a white crossband at the cord.
Female length 4 mm wing 4.2 mm.
Rostrmn palpi and antennae black flagellar segments rounded oval.
Head black.
Thoracic dorsum dark brownish bjack with a sparse brown bloom the area darker in front of the pseudosutural foveae.
Pleurae dark brown with a sparse gray bloom.
Halteres yellow the knobs a little darker.
Legs coxae and trochanters very dark brown femora dark brownish black greatly enlarged at the tip tibiae dark brown the tip darker tarsi w4th the basal half of the metatarsi dull brownish .yellow remainder of the feet dark brown.
Wings dark brown with white marks as fohows a large rounded spot at Sd a smaller rounded spot near the tip of 2d A a broad white band at the cord entirely traversing the wdngs tip of the wing white including the ends of ceils Rz Ro and parts of R2 and Mi it is probable that the base of the wing is also white but this is not certain veins dark brown except in the white markings where they are chinawhite and difficult to detect venation PI.
XXVI fig.
12.
Abdomen dark brownish black valves of the ovipositor brownish yellow.
Holotype 9  Chiricahui Mts. Cochise Co. Ariz. June 24 H. G. Hubbard.
Erioptera Mesocyphona immaculata Alexander.
1913.
Erioptera Mesocyphona immaculata Alexander 'Proceedings of the United States National Museum vol.
44 pp.
.518 519 pi.
66 fig.
20.
One female from Denison Grayson Co. Tex. June 22 1904 taken by Mr. H. S. Barber.
Erioptera Mesocyphona eiseni Alexander.
1913.
Erioptera Mesocyphona eiseni Alexander Proceedings of the United States National Museum vol.
44 pp.
516 517 pi.
67 fig.
26.
One male collected at La Cueva Organ Mts. Donna Ana Co. N.
Mex. alt. 5300 feet on September 1 by Prof. C. H. T. Townsend.
Subgenus ERIOPTERA .Meigen.
1803.
Erioptera Meigen Illiger's Magazine vol.
2 p. 262.
Erioptera Erioptera dorothea sp.
n. Cell 1st Mo closed but without a spur as in Hoplolahis wings spotted.
Female length 4.54.6 mm.
 wing 5.66.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae with the basal segments brown flagellar segments dull yellow the apical segments brown.
Head gray.
Thoracic dorsum light gray the praescutum narrowly margined with pale in front area in front of the pseudosutural fovese pale tuberculate pits dark brown.
Pleurae light gray.
Halteres light yellow the knob scarsely darker.
Legs with the coxae thinly dusted with gray trochanters brownish yellow femora dull yellow the tip narrowly brown tibiae dull brownish j'ellow the apex browned tarsi brown.
Wings light gray with brqwn markings as follows a series of six large blotches along the costal margin the second at the origin of Rs third at Sd fourth large t at tip of Sci and on crossvein r fifth at the tip of Ri and the last at the tip of R2 brown seams along the cord outer end of cell 1st Mi and at the ends of the longitudinal veins venation PI.
XXVI fig.
13  crossvein m present less than onehalf as long as the outer deflection of M3.
Abdomen grayish brown the apical tergites and the valves of the ovipositor reddish yellow the apical margins of the sclerites pale.
Holotype 9  South Fork of Eagle Creek White Mts. N.
Mex. alt.
8000 feet August 16 C. H. T. Townsend.
Paratype 9  topotypic.
The wingpattern is very similar to E. Hoplolahis armata O. S. of the Eastern States but the venation is quite different.
Erioptera Erioptera lucia sp.
n. Cell 1st M2 closed and very small pleurites of the male hypopygium bearing a triangular flattened lobe at the tip.
Male length 4.5 mm.
 wing 6 mm.
Female length 4.5 mm.
 wing 6.3 mm.
Rostrum light yellow palpi brown.
Antennae light yellow the flagellum broken.
Head light gray.
Thoracic dorsum yellow without darker markings.
Pleurae yellow the ventral sclerites darker and with a sparse grayish bloom.
Halteres light yellow.
Legs coxae and trochanters dull yellow femora and tibiae brownish yellow tarsi brown.
Wings hyaline or nearly so the veins brown venation PI.
XXVL fig.
14 which shows the very similar microcellula  basal clefloction of Cui just before the fork of M cell 1st Mi small the outer deflection of M 3 and crossvein m subequal.
Abdomen brownish yellow sternites yellow.
Hypopygium with the pleurites rather long slender with rather abundant long pale hairs the dorsal appendage flattened PL XXVI figs.
19 20 triangular the base narrowed the tip truncate chitinized along the margin at the apex finely denticulate ventral appendage shorter at the tip bearing a chitinized hook that is directed caudad and outward gonapophyses sharppointed chitinized decussate.
Holotype cT' Colorado.
Allotype 9  Beulah N.
Mex. alt.
8000 feft August T. D. A. Cockerell.
Differs from all of the described American species except E. microcellula sp.
n. in the small closed cell 1st Mi.
From microcellula it can be easily separated by the male genitalia.
Erioptera Erioptera microcellula sp.
n. Very similar to E. lucia in all general features but the male genitalia are conspicuously different.
The pleurites are stouter and bear an irregular appendage shaped as in the figures Pi.
XXVI figs.
16 17 and 18.
The ventral pleural appendage is not shown in the drawings it consists of a cylindrical fieshy lobe narrower at the base very densely covered with long pale hairs.
The gonapophyses seen from beneath are long chitinized hooks slightly curved inward but their tips not meeting along the sides with numerous appressed teeth.
The wingvenation is shown in PI.
XXVI fig.
14.
Male length 4.8 mm.
 wing 6.8 mm.
Holotype cT Colorado.
Subgenus EMPEDA Osten Sacken.
1869.
Empeda Osten Sacken Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.
4 p. 183.
Erioptera Empeda alicia sp.
n. Body coloration light yellow without darker markings cell 1st Mi closed.
Female length 3.5 mm.
 wing 4.9 mm.
Rostrum light yellow palpi brown.
Antennae with the basal segments light yellow flagellar segments light brown.
Head light yellow.
Thorax light yellow without darker markings the pleurae of a lighter shade than the dorsum.
Halteres light brown.
Legs coxae and trochanters yellow femora brown more yellowish at the base tibiae and tarsi light yellowish brown with abundant yellow hairs.
Wings hyaline or nearly so the veins light yellow venation PI.
XXVI fig.
15 as in stigmatica 0.
S. but the crossvein m is present closing the cell 1st M.
Abdomen brownish yellow.
Holotype 9  Scotia CaL May 20 1903 H. S. Barber.
This differs from the described American forms stigmatica Osten Sacken and nigrolineata Enderlein by its closed cell 1st M and the uniform pale yellow coloration.
Genus EHABDOMASTIX Skuse.
1889.
Rhabdomastix Skuse Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. Wales series 2 vol.
4 pp.
828 829.
Subgenus SACANDAGA Alexander.
1911.
Sacandaga Alexander Entomological News vol.
22 pp.
349351.
Rhabdomastix Sacandaga caudata Lundbeck.
1S98.
Gonioiiujia Einpcda caudata Lundbeck Diptera groenlandica Vidensk.
Meddel.
fra den naturh.
Foren. p. 267 pi.
6 fig.
18.
This curious fly was described from a single female taken at PermiHarsukfiord 01 30' N. L. Greenland.
It seems to me that the generic reference as given above is more nearly correct.
The rossvein r is shown in Dr. Lundbeck 's figure and it is indicated in the material before me it is probable that this species is an intermediate form in the Eriopterine series.
The following material was studied One female Signuia Baffin Land August 2 1897 Schtichert and White.
Several of both sexes Kokanee Mt. Brit.
Col. alt.
8000 feet August 11 1903 R. P. Currie.
I am greatly indebted to Dr. Lundbeck for a copy of the description and figure of this interesting fly.
Genus GONOMYIA Meigen.
Subgenus GONOMYIA Meigen.
1818.
Gonomyia Meigen Syst.
Beschr. vol.
1 p. 146.
Gonomyia Gonomyia obscura Doane.
1900.
Phyllolalm obscura Doane Journal of the New York Entomological Society vol.
8 p. 192 pi.
8 fig.
7.
The type a female is No.
7034 in the LT. S. National Museum Collection it was taken at Pullman Wash. June 22 1898.
Gonomyia Gonomyia blanda Osten Suckcn.
1859.
Gonomyia blanda Osten Sacken Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia p. 231.
The following records extend the range of the species Peachland B. Col. May 19 1912.
Blue Lake Humboldt Co. CaL June 24 1903 J. C. Bradley.
Tex. one female in the C. V. Riley Collection in the National Museum.
Subgenus LEIPONEURA Skuse.
1889.
Leiponeura Skuse Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. Wales ser.
2 vol.
4 p. 795.
Gonomyia Leiponeura alexanderi Johnson.
1912 Elliptera alexanderi Johnson Psyche vol.
19 p. 3 fig.
6.
The following additional distribution in the United States Black Mts. Buncombe Co. N.
Car. June 13 1912 BeutenmuUer.
Piano Collin Co. Tex. August E. S. Tucker.
Gonomyia Leiponeura' cinerea Doane.
1900.
Dicranomyia cinerea Doane Journal of the New York Entomological Society vol.
8 pp.
182 183 pi.
7 fig.
2.
The type a female is No.
7005 in the U. S. National Museum Collection it was taken at Pullman Wash. August 10 1898.
Gonomyia Leiponeura manca Osten Sacken.
1869.
Goniomyia manca Osten Sacken Monographs of the Diptera of North America vol.
4 pp.
178 179.
1908.
Dicranomyia curvivena Coquillett Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington vol.
9 p. 144.
Coquillett's types were examined in Washington and proved to belong to this species.
Gonomyia Leiponeura puer Alexander.
1913.
Gonomyia Leiponeura puer Alexander Proceedings of the United States National Museum vol.
44 p. 506 pi.
66 fig.
14.
Miami Dade Co. Fla. December 19 1912 Fred'k Knab.
Billy's Island Okefenoke Swamp Charlton Co. Ga. June 25 1912 Bradley and Leonard several specimens of both sexes.
Gonomyia Leiponeura sacandaga sp.
n. Coloration yellow and brown pleurae striped wings with the costa strongly yellow stigma pale brown.
Male length 3.23.4 mm.
 wing 3.33.5 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brownish black.
Antennae with the two basal segments light yellow the fiagellum broAvn.
Head light yellow with a dark brown spot in the middle.
Mesonotal prsescutum rather dark brown narrowly edged around with light yellow scutum pale yellow medially the lobes brown margined with yellow behind scutellum lrown broadly margined with yellow behind postnotum brown.
Pleurae striped brown and yellow the dorsal pleurites light yellowish brown limited above by the bright yellow margin of the prsescutum limited below by the dorsal pleural stripe which begins beneath the base of the halteres 39 and goes to above the fore coxa lower pleural stripe broader traversing the coxse the yellow band between these dark stripes very clear at the anterior end including most of the fore coxa.
Halteres light yellow.
Legs coxae as described above trochanters dull yellow femora brown broadly tipped with dark brown tibiae and tarsi dark brown.
Wings light gray the costal margin conspicuously light yellow cells C Sc and Ri pale almost hyaline stigma pale brown oval veins brown venation PI.
XXVII fig.
25 Sc ending far before the origin of Rs the distance equal to twothirds the length of the sector.
Abdominal tergites dark brown the apical third of each sclerite yellow the lateral margin narrowly yellowish hypopygium reddish sternites brown the extreme apex of each sclerite yellowish.
Hypopygium PI.
XXVI fig.
21 with the pleurites rather long slender with a few rather long hairs on the outer face near the tip bearing two appendages of these the more dorsal is stouter paler and less chitinized on its basal twothirds the apex a strong chitinized tooth with numerous pale hairs around its base this appendage is connected basally with the long flattened basal appendage which is a little truncated at its apex shaped as in the figure.
The ventral lobe of the pleura is produced into a short fleshy conical lobe provided with long hairs.
The dorsal gonapophyses are short curved strongly chitinized beyond the curve pointed at the tip with two or three blunt teeth on the cephalic or under face of the hook.
Holotype cf  Sport Is. Sacandaga R. Fulton Co. N. Y. August 24 1910 Alexander.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratypes 50 cf 9  topotypic July 5 and July 27 1909.

Gonomyia slossonae sp.
n. Cell 1st Mi open by the atrophy of the outer deflection of Mscell Ml absent.
Female length 67 mm.
 wing 66.8 mm.
Rostrum brown at the tip yellowish at the base palpi dark brown.
Antennae brown.
Head light yellow.
Thoracic pronotum yellow with a brown spot on either side.
Praescutum light yellow with dark brown stripes the median one darker in front behind somewhat divided by a pale line the lateral stripes begin behind the pscudosutural foveae and are entirely confluent with the middle stripe pscudosutural foveae chestnut very far proximad scutum yellow the lobes largely dark brown scutellum dull yellow postnotum brown yellowish on the sides in front.
Pleurae dorsal pleurites purplish brown sternum lighter grayish brown the two enclosing a broad light yellow stripe beginning behind the fore coxa and ending above the hind coxa.
Halteres pale brown the knob a little darker.
Legs with the coxee and trochanters dull yellow femora and tibiae yellow the latter a little darkened at the tip.
tarsi dark brown.
Wings light brown stigma small rather indistinct veins brown venation PI.
XXVII fig.
26 Sc2 far removed from the tip of Sci crossvein r rather indistinct at the fork of R.z cell Ml absent outer deflection of M3 absent basal deflection of Cu at the fork of M. Abdomen dark brown the pleural line and the genital segment yellowish.
The paratype has the two basal segments of the antennae yellowish the head behind gray crossvein r very indistinct basal deflection of Cui before the fork of M. Holotype 9  Biscayne Bay Dade Co. Fla. Mrs. A. T. Slosson.
Paratype 9  Paraiso Canal Zone January 29 1911 Aug. Busck.
I was unable to detect tibial spurs on this insect.
The general appearance is more like that of a Lininophila than any other form known to me and I refer it to Gonomyia with considerable doubt.
The long Sc and crossvein r are not typical of Gonomyia.
Genus CLADURA Osten Sacken.
1859.
Cladura Osten Sacken Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 229.
Cladura delicatula sp.
n. From the only described American species C. flavoferruqinea O. S.  indivisa O. S. this form differs in its very much smaller size and pale coloration.
The specimens of indivisa mentioned by Osten Sacken where he states some of the specimens probably recently excluded were pale and without spots may have belonged to this form.
There are no brown spots on the pleurae the extreme lateral margin of the abdominal tergites is dark the wings are hyaline and lack the dark markings on the cord origin of the sector and on the outer deflection of cell 1st Ml.
I have compared this insect with the extensive series of Cladura studied by Mr. Leonard and myself and have no doubt of its specific distinctness.
The wing is figured in PI.
XXVII fig.
27.
Female length 4.64.7 mm.
 wing 5.65.7 mm.
2Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.
4 p. 189. '
Venational variation in Cladura Joitrn.
N. Y. Entomological Society vol.
20 pp.
3639 1912.
Holotype 9  White Mts. N. Hamp.
H. K. Morrison.
Paratypes 2 9  topotypic.
Tribe Limnophilini.
Genus LIMNOPHILA Macquart.
1834.
Limnophila Macquart Suit a Buffon vol.
1 p. 95.
Limnophila albipes Leonard.
1913.
Limnophila albipes Leonard Entomological News vol.
25 pp.
248 249 fig.
One male of this species was taken by Mr. S. Frost at Tarrytown Westchester Co. N. Y. June 16 1913.
This constitutes the first record for the State.
LimnopMla alleni Johnson.
1909.
Limnophila alleni Johnson Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History vol.
34 pp.
126 127 pi.
16 fig.
18.
This fine species was described from a single male.
A male specimen was taken in Coy Glen Ithaca N. Y June 20 1910 by Miss Anna H. Morgan.
Another male in Simmon's woods Gloversville N. Y. June 9 1914 by the author.
There is a badly injured female in the Cornell Collection taken in North Carolina by H. K. Morrison this specimen has a strong crossvein in cell Ri in both wings uniting Rii with Mi.
A second female was taken at Sugar Grove Fairfield Co. 0. May 19 1901 by Prof. J. S. Hine the female never having been described I make this specimen the allotype and characterize this sex as follows Allotype 9  Head dark brown abdominal segments 2 to 4 lright orangeyellow the caudal median portion brown smallest on segment 2 largest on segment 4 segments 5 to the end of the body brownish yellow with a narrow darker median stripe sternites yellow with a narrow median brown stripe extending the length of the segment no black band on the middle of the fore femora.
Female length 36 mm.
 wing 22 mm.
Specimen in the author's collection.
Limnophila subcostata Alexander.
1911.
Phylidorea subcostata Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
43 pp.
288 289.
Since this species was first described it was found to be rather common in the bogs deep woods and gorges in May and early June.
The species has not been figured hitherto and I show its venation in PL XXV fig.
1.
A male from Fall Creek Ithaca N. Y. May 7 1913  a second male from the same place on May 13 1913 a male from Bear Creek bog Frecville N. Y. May 29 1913.
Several females swept fr6m rank vegetation at Sacandaga Park Fulton Co. N. Y. June 1 1914.
Three females taken in Simmon's woods Gloversville N. Y. June 3 1914 in company with a cranefly fauna that is quite characteristic of northern woodlands that support a rich Canadian flora.
Dicranomyia puhipennis Rhypholophus ruhellus Erioptera stigmatica Adelphoniyia minuta Limnophila rufibasis L. areolata Rhaphidolabis flaveola Tricyphona calcar etc.
Subgenus EPHELIA Schiner.
1S63.
Ephelia Schiner Wien.
Entomol.
Monatschr. vol.
7 p. 222.
Limnophila Ephelia johnsoni sp.
n. Color yellow wings hyaline unmarked a supernumerary crossvein in cell M. Male length 4 mm.
 wing 6.1 mm.
Female length 7.2 mm.
 wing 8.6 mm.
Rostrum pale brownish yellow palpi and antennae very pale yellowish brown.
Head yellow with a pale bloom eyes conspicuously contrasting black.
Pronotum pale yellow.
Mesonotal prsescutum pale yellow with four broad indistinct darker stripes of which the median pair are the longest scutum scutellum and postnotum light yellow with a sparse pale gray bloom.
Pleurae yellowish.
Halteres pale yellow.
Legs yellow the tibiae and tarsi a little suffused with brown.
Wings pale yellow the veins pale venation PL XXV fig.
2 Rs rather long angulated at base in a line with the deflection of R23 crossvein r not distinct basal deflection of Rti and M12 strongly arcuated and in a line a strong supernumerary crossvein in cell M. Abdomen very light brownish yellow.
Holotype d Mountain Lake Fulton Co. N. Y. alt.
1590 feet June 17 1914 C. P. Alexander.
Allotype 9  Bretton Woods N. H. June 23 1913 C. W. Johnson.
This interesting new species is named in honor of the wellknown dipterologist Mr. Charles W. Johnson who collected the allotype.
The only other species of Ephelia in America are aprilina O. S. and superUneata Doane which have the wings heavily spotted with brown.
Subgenus DACTYLOLABIS Osten Sacken.
18.59.
Dadylolabis Osten Sacken Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 240.
Limnophila Dactylolabis hortensia sp.
n. Wings subhyaline color gray hypopygium reddish.
Male length about 8 mm.
 wing 8.8 mm.
Female length 7.8 8.4 mm.
 wing 8.48.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi brown.
Antennae with the basal segment very elongate dark brown flagellum dark brown.
Head gray.
Thoracic dorsum light gray the prsescutum with darker markings a very indistinct stripe on either side of the middle line a more distinct stripe on either side narrowest in front.
Pleurae light gray.
Halteres pale yellow.
Legs coxse and trochanters yellow femora yellow darkened at the tip tibiae brownish yellow brown at the tip tarsi brown.
Wings subhyaline or faintly yellowish stigma indisstint veins brown venation PI.
XXVII fig.
29  723 about as long as the basal deflection of Cih crossvein  at about twothirds the length of RiAbdominal tergites gray the hypopygium reddish yellow sternites blackish gray each segment with more or less yellow at the base.
Holotype cf  London Hill Mine Bear Lake Brit.
Col. alt.
7000 feet July 29 1903 A. N. Caudell.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratypes 10 cf 9  topotypic.
In the U. S. National Museum Collection this material was determined as L. cuhitalis Osten Sacken and by Osten Sacken's key it would run down to that species.
The following differences suffice to separate the forms 1.
The extreme base of R2 is perpendicular to the end of the sector cell R2 very long and narrow wings more tinged with yellow hypopygium concolorous with the rest of the abdomen size larger Eastern United States cuhitalis Osten Sacken.
Ri leaves the end of the sector at an angle cell Ri shorter not so elongated wings nearly hyaline hypopygium reddish conspicuously brighter than the rest of the abdomen size smaller British Columbia hortensia sp.
n. Limnophila nigripleura A. and L. sp.
n. Belongs to the luteipennis Osten Sacken group wings clear pleurae with a conspicuous dark brown stripe from the cervical sclerites to the postnotum.
Male length 4.85 mm.
 wing 5.86 mm.
Female length 6 mm.
 wing 7 mm.
Palpi and antennie dark brownish black.
Head light clear gray provided with nunurous hairs.
Pronotum dusted with gray.
Mesonotal praescutum and scutum Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.4 pp.
202 203. light brown rather darker medially scutelluin more yellow medially postnotum gray.
Pleurae dull light yellow with a broad dark brown stripe extending from the cervical sclerites to the postnotum mesosternum suffused with brown.
Halteres light yellow the knobs darker.
Legs coxse and trochanters dull yellow femora brownish yellow tibiie similar the tip narrowly brown tarsi brown.
Wings subhj'aline stigma indistinct veins brown venation PI.
XXV fig.
3.
Abdominal tergites dark brown sternites much paler yellowish white hypopygium brown.
Holotype d Sacandaga Park Fulton Co. N. Y. June 20 1910.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratpes 50 cf 9  topotypic Mountain Lake Fulton Co. X. Y. alt.
1580 feet June 15 1914 Orono Penobscot Co. Me. July 29 1913 Ithaca Tompkins Co. N. Y. July 7 1911 Ridgewood Bergen Co. N. J.
A common and widely distributed species in the Eastern United States the material has been compared with the types of contempta in the Museum of Comparative Zoology and the form differs as described above.
The species has been in the collection of Mr. Leonard and myself for some years.
A key to the species of the luteipennis group in the Eastern United States.
1.
Cell Ml absent noveboracensis Alex. Cell Ml present 2.
2.
Wings wdth small brown dots on the crossveins and at the forks luteipennia O. S. Wings clear unspotted  3.
3.
Thorax clear Vjluegray inornata O. S.' Thorax brownish without gray color 4.
4.
Larger species with the pleurae unmarked contempta 0.
S. Smaller species pleurae with a conspicuous dark brown stripe from the cervical sclerites to the postnotum mgripleura A.
 L. sp.
n. The members of the luteipennis group have the following characters in common head narrow and prolonged behind pronounced pseudosutural or humeral pits conspicuous tuberculate pits on either side of the middle line of the praescutum in front.
Venation noveboracensis Alexander Pysche vol.
18 pp.
196 to 198 1911.
'luteipennis Osten Sacken Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 2.36 18.59.
Hnornata Osten Sacken Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.
4 pp.
219 220 1869.
 contempta Osten Sacken I.e. pp.
218 219 1869. of the wings cells Rs and 1st Mo longer than cell Rf radial and medial veins long and slender second anal vein incurved at the tip.
Limnophila novaeangliae sp.
n. Belongs to the adusta Osten Sac ken group wings hyaline body coloration yellowish  abdomen of the male with a black subterminal ring.
Male length 6.87.5 mm.
 wing 5.87.2 mm.
Female length 8 mm.
 wing 7.5 mm.
Rostrum yellowish palpi brown.
Antennae basal segments brownish yellow the first four or five flagellar segments with the extreme base yellowish remainder of the antennse brown.
Head with a broad purplish brown band across the vertex from one eye to the other occiput rather abruptly reddish yellow.
Thoracic notum reddish yellow without stripes.
Pleurae lighter yellow.
Halteres short rather pale the knob only a little darker.
Legs coxse and trochanters yellow femora and tibse yellow the tips narrowly brown metatarsus dull yellowish basally tipped with brown remaining tarsal segments brown.
Wings with a faint yellowish tinge a pale brown oval stigma no infuscation at the tip of the wing venation PI.
1 fig.
4.
Abdomen brownish yellow with a conspicuous subapical black ring including segments 8 and 9 and the caudal half of 7 hypopygium reddish yellow.
The female sex is similar but the abdomen lacks the black subapical ring and in some specimens the entire head is dark purplish brown.
Holotype d  Ellsworth Hancock Co. Me. August 10 1913 Miss Cordelia J. Stanwood.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratypes 1 c 4 9  typelocality July 9 to August 10 1913.
A key to the species of the adusta group in the eastern United States.
1.
Wings more or less clouded with brown apically often with brown seams on the crossveins 2.
Wings uniform in coloration the stigma indistinct 3.
2.
Yellowish species the thoracic notum light yellow adusta O. S. Brown species the thoracic notum dark brown swiilis Alex.
'' 3.
Larger species wing of male 9.5 mm.
 abdomen without a black subterminal ring in the male lutea Doane Small species wing of male less than 7.5 mm.
 abdomen of the male with a ilack subterminal ring novceanglice sp.
n. adusta Ostcn Sackcn Fror.
Acnd.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 235 1859.
Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.
4 pp.
215217 18G9.
Himilis Alexander Psyche vol.
18 pp.
195 196 1911.
Hutea Doane Journ.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc vol.
8 p. 191 1900.
The members of the adusta group are distinguished by the following characters radial sector short arcuated crossvein r situated at about midlength of Ri which is quite oblique.
The species are yellowish or brown and specimens in a single species vary much in the intensity of their coloration.
The following species have been examined and prove to belong to this group of the genus Limnophila fidvocostalis Coquillett from Bering Islands type 4049 U. S. N. M. Limnophila costata Coquillett from New Mexico type 5318 u. s. n.'m.
Limnophila insulana Johnson from Bermuda type in the collection of Mr. Johnson.
Limnophila stanwoodae sp.
n. Belongs to the quadrata Osten Sacken group bodycoloration yellow wings pale yellow Rs long cell ili absent.
Male length 6.66.9 mm.
 wing 7.57.9 mm.
Female length 6.87.2 mm.
 wing 6.87.3 mm.
Rostrum yellowish palpi with the basal segments light colored terminal two brown.
Antennae with the scape yellow flagallum brown the proximal half of the first two flagellar segments yellowish.
Head reddish yellow.
Thorax brownish yellow without distinct dark lines the postnotum with a narrow indistinct median stripe of brown.
Pleurae propleurae darker the mesoand metapleurae light yellow.
Halteres pale yellow.
Legs coxae and trochanters light yellow femora brownish yellow darkening into brown at the tip tibiae light brown darker at the tip tarsi dark brown.
Wings with a light yellow tinge the stigma gray oval veins brown the radial crossvein mostly obscured bjthe stigma venation PI.
XXV fig.
5.
Abdomen brownish yellow the lateral line brownish sternites a little brighter yellow segment 8 and the caudal half of the 7th brown hypopygium yellowdsh valves of the ovipositor of the female long acicular.
Holotype cf  Sacandaga Park Fulton Co. N. Y. June 11 1914.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratypes 3 cf  18 9 Ellsworth Hancock Co. Me. June 21July 23 1913.
12 Fur Seals and FurSeal Islands vol.
4 p. 342 1899.
 Psyche vol.
9 p. 149 1901.
The Dipteran Fauna of Bermuda Annals of the Entomological Society of America vol.
6 pp.
443 444 fig.
2 1913.
The paratypes were collected by Miss Cordelia J. Stanwood the wellknown student of birdlife in whose honor the species is named.
Miss Stanwood has done much to discover the craneflies in the vicinity of her home city and as a result of her careful observations our knowledge of the Hancock Co. Tipulidse is remarkably complete and constitutes one of the most valuable lists of a restricted locality that has ever been secured.
Limnophila osborni sp.
n. Belongs to the quadrata Osten Sacken group mesonotum rich brown pleurse with a conspicuous black dorsal stripe wings with a brown tinge crossvein r at the fork of Riz Rs long cell Mi absent.
Male length 6.36.5 mm.
 wing 7.47.5 mm.
Rostrum a little reddish yellow palpi and antennse dark brownish black.
Head dark brownish black.
Mesonotal prsescutum rich yellowish brown with a very narrow black line on either side of the broad median space a deep black spot on the anterior margin of the prsescutum continued foreward onto the pronotal sclerites lateral stripes not clearly indicated scutum yellowish brown with a darker brown suffusion on each lobe scutellum dull yellow postnotum clear light gray.
Pleurse pale yellowish with a broad deep black stripe extending from the cervical sclerites across the dorsal pleural sclerites to the abdomen the pleurse adjoining this broad conspicuous stripe very narrowly gray pruinose sternal sclerites pale dull yellow.
Halteres rather long pale the knob elongate dark.
Legs coxse and trochanters pale yellow 'femora brownish yellow the tip darker tibise and tarsi dark brown.
Wings with a brown tinge veins dark brown Aenation PI.
XXV fig.
6  crossvein r at the fork of R03.
Abdominal tergites shining black sternites dark brownish black basal sternites with some yellow hypopygium reddish brown.
The paratype from Phair Me. shows the mesonotal prsescutum very dark brown medially a little lighter behind lobes of the scutum shiny black.
Holotype o Phair Aroostook Co. Me. August 26 1913 Herbert Osborn .
Paratypes 1 d with the type 2 cf from the Bangor Bog near Oroiio Penobscot Co. Me. August 30 1913 Herbert Osborn.
This interesting late summer member of the quadrata group is named in honor of Dr. Herbert Osborn who collected the type material.
A key to the species of the quadrata group in the eastern United States.
1.
Mesonotum and pleurae yellowish or brownish yellow wings pale yellow size small stamooodce sp.
n. Mesonotum and plcunie not yellow size larger 2.
2.
Pleurae and mesonotum clear bluish black with a gray bloom only the coxae conspicuously light yellow wings with a yellowish tinge crossvein r beyond the fork of R.s on R2 qiiadrata O.
8. Pleurae with a conspicuous black dorsal stripe mesonotum rich brown wings with a brown tinge crossvein r at the fork of R23 osborni sp.
n. The members of the quadrata group have the radial sector long and in a line with Ris' cells R3 Rs and 1st M. in a line or nearly so cell Ml absent.
Limnophila emmelina sp.
n. Brown abdomen hairy wings brown cell R sessile cell Mi absent.
Male length about 7 mm.
 wing 8.9 mm.
Rostrum very short reddish brown the palpi brown.
Antennae rather short dull yellowish brown.
Head reddish brown.
Thoracic dorsum yellowish brown without distinct darker markings.
Pleurae dull yellow.
Halteres yellow.
Legs coxae and trochanters dull yellow femora yellow broadly tipped with brown tibiae dull yellow rather narrowly tipped with brown tarsi brown the base of the metatarsus a little paler.
Wings with a slight brownish tinge no stigmal spot veins brown venation PL XXVII fig.
28 Ro arising from the sector so that the cell Ri is sessile cell Mi absent.
Abdominal tergites dark brown sternites lighter colored.
Holotype d'.
Great Falls Va. April 20 1913 Fred'k Knab.
From other members of the genus in which cell Mi is lacking this species is readily distinguished by the sessile cell R2.
Tribe Pedicini.
Genus ORNITHODES Coquillett.
1900.
Ornithodes Coquillett Proc.
Wash. Acad.
Sci. vol.
2 p. 400.
Ornithodes harrimani Coquillett.
1900.
Ornithodes harrimani Coquillett Proceedings of the Washington Academy of Science vol.
2 p. 400.
The type is No.
5203 in the U. S. National Museum.
It is a male from Virgin's Bay Alaska June 26 1899.
This insect is very similar to Tricyphona in venation but distinct in the curious  quadrata Osten Sacken Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philn. p. 241 1859 Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.
4 p. 230 1869. elongate rostrum from which character Coquillett evidently derived the generic name.
Genus TRICYPHONA Zetterstedt.
1838.
Tricyphona Zetterstedt Ins.
Lapponica Dipt. p. 851.
Tricyphona katahdin sp.
n. Color light brown wings light yellow with sparse brown seams and spots  crossvein mcu lacking.
Male length 67.6 mm.
 wing 66.9 mm.
Female length 8.89.5 mm.
 wing 7.59 mm.
Palpi dark brownish black rostrum and head brownish graj clearer gray on the vertex adjoining the eyes first segment of the antennae pale yellow remainder of the antennae dark brown.
Mesonotal prgescutum light fawnbrown with an indistinct brownish strips on either side of the middle line and shorter lateral pale brown stripes these latter continued caudad onto the lobes of the scutum scutellum grayish postnotum light yellowish brown with a whitish bloom.
Pleurae light yellow.
Halteres pale the knob a little darker.
Legs yellow coxae and trochanters brownish yellow femora yellow darkening into brown on the apical half or more tibiae and tarsi dark brown.
Wings light yellow the veins yellow small brown markings as follows  a rounded spot on Sc continued up into the costal cell an oval spot at Sci brown seams at the base of Rs base of R23 crossvein r tip of Rs fork of R46 crossvein rm venation PL XXV fig.
7  cell R4 much shorter than cell R3 usually onehalf as long cell Mi very short usually about equal to its petiole beyond crossvein m or a little longer cell 1st M2 very long narrow Cui and Mz fused for a distance obliterating crossvein mcu.
Abdominal tergites with the basal twothirds brown apical third yellowish sternites dull brownish yellow margined laterally with brown the apical segments with the margin reduced or lacking hypopygium pale.
The female is similar to the male but larger especially the abdomen brown tips to the femora narrower abdomen usually with more yellow color often with a broad median patch of yellowish on the tergites.
In some of the males the scapal segments of the antennae are dark brown concolorous with the rest of the antennae.
There is some variation in venation in the series the fusion of Mz and Cui is sometimes lacking the crossvein mcu being present as in vernalis Osten Sacken one female lacks crossvein m in both wings.
Holotype cf at the foot of Mt.
Katahdin Piscataquis Co. Me. along the Abol trail altitude about 1000 feet August 22 1913 Alexander.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratypes 9 cf  5 9 topotypic Morse and Alexander.
1 cf 1 9  Ellsworth Hancock Co. Me. August 26 and September 1 1913 C. J. Stanwood.
Paratypes have been deposited in the Museum of Comparative Zoology through Prof. Morse  Boston Society of Natural History Maine Experiment Station American Museum of Natural History The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the U. S. National Museum.
Related to Tricyphona vernalis Osten Sacken PI.
XXV fig.
8 but is a very different species.
The size sex for sex is smaller no sign of the gray coloration so characteristic of vernalis wings much paler yellowish and the markings are reduced to mere spots and narrow seams as described above not conspicuous rounded clouds.
In normal individuals of both species vernalis has crossvein 7ncu present and cell Ms consequently very long katahdii has Cui and Ms fused for a greater or less length the forks of cell Mi and R4 are much shorter in katahdi7i than in vernalis.
Genus POLYANG.ffiUS Doane.
1900.
Polyangmns Doane Journ.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc vol.
8 p. 196.
Polyangaeus maculatus Doane.
1900.
Polyangccas maculatus Doane Journal of the New York Entomological Society vol.
8 p. 197 pi.
8 fig.
20.
The type is apparently not in the collection of the U. S. National Museum with the remaining Doane types.
There are a few specimens from Eureka Humboldt Co. Cal. May 22 1903 taken by Mr. H. S. Barber.
Genus DICRANOTA Zetterstedt.
1838.
Dicranoia Zetterstedt Ins.
Lapponica Dipt. p. 8.51.
Dicranota pallida sp.
n. Size large wing over 7 mm.
 body coloration light yellow cell Ml present deep crossvein m present.
Female length 8 mm.
 ving 8.1 mm.
Rostrum and palpi pale yellow.
Antennae with the two basal segments pale yellow the flagellum broken.
Head yellow.
Thoracic dorsum light yellow lobes of the scutum basal portion of the scutellum and the postnotum more brownish.
Pleurae dull yellow.
Haltores broken.
Legs coxae and trochanters dull yellow femora yellow a little darker at the tip tibise and tarsi dull yellow the tips of the individual segments a little darkened.
Wings broad hyaline highly iridescent veins brown venation PL XXVII fig.
31  Rs long angled and spurred near its origin cell 1st Mz closed cell Ml present and very deep its petiole very short so that the cell is almost sessile.
Abdomen dull yellow.
Holotype 9  White Mts. N. H. H. K. Morrison.
This insect agrees with argentea Doane and novehoracensis sp.
n. in the presence of cell Mi of the wings.
The pale coloration and the closed cell 1st Mi readily separate it from these species.
The related Rhaphidolabis flaveola O. S. has the petiole of cell Mi long the radial sector short no supernumerary crossvein in cell Ri etc.
Dicranota novehoracensis sp.
n. Body coloration gray size small length about 6 mm.
 wings with cell Ml present.
Male length 5.56.3 mm.
 wing 6.67.5 mm.
Female length 66.5 mm.
 wing 7.88 mm.
Rostrum palpi and antennae dark brown the flagellar segments short oval.
Head brownish gray paler around the eyes a very narrow dark brown median stripe.
Thoracic dorsum gray with three dark brown stripes on the dorsum the middle stripe broadest extending the length of the prsescutum faintly bisected by a narrow pale median line lateral stripes short leginning at about midlength of the prsescutum extending back onto the scutum where they suffuse the lobes scutellum and postnotum light gray.
Pleurae light gray.
Halteres pale.
Legs coxae brown with a sparse gray bloom on the outer face trochanters yellowish brown remainder of the legs brown.
Wings light gray the stigmal spot pale brown not completely filling the space between the crossveins in the radial cells veins dark brown venation Rs rather elongate oblique cell Mi present.
The venation is figured in Needham's paper 23d Report of the N. Y.
State Entomologist for 1907 pi.
19 fig.
1 as rivularis Osten Sacken.
Abdomen light brownish gray.
Holotype  Fall Creek Ithaca N. Y. May 8 1914.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratypes 4 cf  1 9  topotypic 1 cf  1 9  Dolgeville Fulton Co. N. Y. May 16 1914.
The American species of Dicranota may be separated by the following key.
1.
Cell3i absent 2.
Cell Ml present 3.
.2.
Halteres with the knob darkened antennae of the male much longer than the thorax eastern United States eucera 0.
S. Halteres pale antennae of the male short eastern United States rivularis 0.
S. 3.
Cell 1st AI2 present bodycoloration yellowish eastern United States pallida sp.
n. Cell 1st Mo absent bodycoloration grayish 4.
4.
Size large length of female 9 mm.
western United States argentea Doane  Size small length of the female 6 mm.
eastern United States novehoracensis sp.
n. Genus EHAPHIDOLABIS Osten Sacken.
1869.
Rhaphidolabis Osten Sacken Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.
4 p. 284.
Rhaphidolabis polymeroides sp.
n. Antennae elongated much longer than the head and thorax together the segments of the flagellum with abundant outstretched hairs wings with a brown suffusion.
Male length about 66.5 mm.
 wing 7.4 mm.
Rostrum brown palpi dark brownish black.
Antennae elongated if bent backward they would extend to the middle of the abdomen flagellar segments very long cylindrical with abundant outstretched hairs.
Head gray.
Thoracic dorsum brown with three dark brown stripes the median one longest and broadest the lateral stripes short narrowed in front broader behind scutum with the lobes dark brown these being continuations of the lateral praescutal stripes scutellum and postnotum brown with a sparse gray bloom.
Pleurae brownish gray.
Halteres long pale at the extreme base knob dark brown.
Legs coxae brown more yellowish at the tips trochanters yellow femora yellow darkening into brown beyond the base tibiae and tarsi brown.
Wings with a dark brown suffusion stigma indistinct veins dark brown with conspicuous hairs venation PI.
XXVH fig.
30.
Abdominal tergites dark brown the hypopygium lighter brown sternites more yellowish.
Holotype c Eureka Cal. May 22 1903 H. S. Barber.
This insect is conspicuously different from any of the described  eucera Osten Sacken Mon.
Dipt.
N.
Am. vol.
4 pp.
281 282 1869.
rivularis Osten Sacken Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 249 pi.
2 fig.
16 1859.
argentea Doane Joiirn.
N. Y.
But.
Soc vol.
8 p. 196 pi.
8 fig.
19 1900.
Dicranotse.
The resemblance of this insect to species of Polymera is remarkable.
Tribe Hexatomini.
Genus ERIOCERA Macauart.
1838.
Eriocera Macquart Diit.
exot. vol.
1 No.
1 p. 74.
Eriocera tristis sp.
n. Abdomen shining black wings with a blackish suffusion crossvein r at the fork of Riz.
Female length 12 mm.
 wing 1010.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi brown.
Antennge reddish brown.
Head dark brownish black much paler yellowish along the margin of the eye and a pale spot behind the frontal tubercle.
Frontal tubercle conspicuous shiny without hairs deep chestnutbrown with a Vshaped notch in front.
Thorax with the pronotum dark brownish lack mesonotum very dark brown with four indistinct blackish stripes the middle pair longest divergent in front the lateral pair abbreviated scutum and scutellum brown the latter with a sparse gray bloom postnotum black.
Pleurae dark brown.
Halteres dark brownish black.
Legs coxse brown trochanters dull yellow femora full yellow at base darkening into brown at the swollen tips tibiae reddish brown tarsi brown.
Wings blackish brown stigma oval dark brown venation crossvein r at the fork of Rizi cell 1st Mi small almost square  basal deflection of Cwi beyond the fork of M. The venation is figured in Psyche vol.
19 pi.
13 fig 8 1912.
Abdominal tergites dark shiny black the terminal segment and the ovipositor reddish brown sternites yellowish apices of the segments dark brownish black sometimes the yellow color indistinct.
Holotype cf  Fall Creek Ithaca N. Y. August 1 1912 Alexander .
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratypes 1 9  topotypic Carl Ilg.
2 9  topotypic Carl Ilg.
I examined the types oi fiiliginosa 0.
S. on September 11 1913.
The wing is suffused with rather light brown stigma small rounded brown crossvein r just beyond the fork of R23.
E. tristis may be told bj the very dark color of the wings and the deep black abdomen this is the species mentioned by me in Psyche December 1912 p. 169 imder the account of E. fultonensis.
Subfamily CYLINDROTOMIN.
Genus CYLINDEOTOMA Macquart.
1834.
Cylindrotoma Macquart Suit a Buffon vol.
1 p. 107.
Cylindrotoma splendens Doane.
1900.
Cylindrotoma splendens Doane Journal of the New York Entomological Society vol.
8 p. 197 pi.
8 fig.
21.
1900.
Cylindrotoma junda Coquillett Proceedings of the Washington Academy of Sciences vol.
2 p. 401.
Doane's type No.
7051 U. S. N. M. from Unalaska August 24 1897 was described three months before Coquillett's junda No.
5204 U. S. N. M. Virgin's Bay Alaska June 26 1899 appeared in press.
Cylindrotoma tarsalis Johnson.
1912.
Cylindrotoma tarsalis Johnson Psyche vol.
19 p. 2 fig.
4.
1912.
Cylindrotoma 
anomala Johnson Psyche vol.
19 pp.
2 3 fig.
3.
The two names given above represent one and the same species.
I have found this insect conmionly in various parts of Fulton County N. Y. Genua PHALACROCERA Schiner.
1863.
Phalacrocera Schiner Wien.
Ent.
Monatschr. vol.
7 p. 224.
Phalacrocera neoxena sp.
n. Wings darkcolored vein Ri persistent at the tip as in replicata Linnseus.
Male length 11.812 mm.
 wing 10.411 mm.
Female length 11.8 mm.
 wing 10.911.9 mm.
Rostrmn and palpi dark brownish black.
Antennae dark brownish black.
Head broad black with a sparse grayish bloom.
Pronotum black with a gray bloom which is most intense on the sides of the scleriles.
Mesonotal prsescutum with a pale yellowish gray bloom four indistinct darker stripes the median pair long the lateral pair short and broad scutum scutellum and postnotum with a pale grayish white bloom.
Pleurae black with a gray bloom which leaves patches of the ground color at intervals.
Halteres long brown.
Legs coxae grey trochanters and femora yellowish brown brown at the tip tibiae light brown darker brown at the tip tarsi dark brown.
Wings with a brown suffusion stigma prominent oval brown veins dark brown venation PI.
XXV fig.
10 Rs very long almost straight crossvein r short ii beyond r persistent as in replicata not atrophied as in tipulina crossvein rm present as a short vein or else lost by the slight fusion of 745 on M12 cell 1st Mo large arcuated at.
the base.
Abdominal tergites brown with a dark brownish black median 40 line lateral margins of the sclerites narrowly dark brownish black sternites dark brown.
Hypopygial sternites bright yellowish chestnut tergites brown.
Holotype cf  Nipigon Algona District Ontario June 17 1913 Dr. E. M. Walker.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratype No.
I  topotypic No.
2 cf  type locality June 18 1913 No.
3 9 North Fairhaven Cayuga Co. N. Y. May 17 1913 found dead in lake drift Dr. J. G. Needham and Miss Emmeline Moore The type and paratype No.
1 is in the collection of the University of Toronto.
This insect is closest to P. repUcata Linnseus of Europe but the wings are darker colored much more tinged with brown the venation although similar in the persistence of the tip of Ri shows a tendency to the reduction of the radiomedian crossvein the base of cell 1st Mi more arcuated and other details.
Griinberg's figure of the male hypopygium of replicata shows differences in the shape of the 9th tergite and the conspicuous appendages of the 9th sternite.
The wing venation of the three known species of the genus are figured on PI.
XXV replicata fig.
9 neoxena fig.
10 tipulina fig.
11.
At this point it may be mentioned that there is a great difference in the interpretation of the venation of the radial field of the wing in this tribe of craneflies.
Most authors have considered the vein R2 of the Cylindrotominse to represent a combined fusion of Ri23 from the tip of the wing backward.
From a study of the venation of the known species of this tribe about a dozen in all it is seen that the above interpretation of a long backward fusion of i
123 is impossible and two other possible explanations are here presented.
Looking over the series of wings before me it seems that the vein hitherto considered as Rn23 is in reality R3 or R23 alone Ri becoming atrophied beyond the radial crossvein rather than obliterating this crossvein and fusing with R3.
This is proved by the wings of Phalacrocera shown in the plate in replicata and neoxena Ri being separated from R23 whereas in tipulina the tip of Ri is atrophied leyond crossvein r. A second possible interpretation is that of considering the small crossvein mentioned by Osten Sackcn as occurring in the costal cell beyond the tip of Sc and present as a very indistinct vein n many specimens Liogma as being the Susswasscrfauna Dcutsclilands vol.
2A pt.
1 p. 33 1910. tip of ii.
In this case Ri is quite short extending only a slight distance beyond the fork of the radial sector and the crossvein r is very long and simulates a section of vein R ending at the outer part of the stigma according to this interpretation Ri would be separate but usually very indistinct or lacking  is atrophied at its tip except in two species of Phalacrocera revlicata and neoxena whereas the vein hitherto considered as being Ri23 is really R3 alone.
This latter explanation of these veins of the radial field is probably the correct one.
Subfamily TIPULIN.E.
Tribe Tipulini.
Genus LONGURIO Loew.
1869.
Longurio Loew Berl.
Ent.
Zeitschr. vol.
1.3 p. 3.
Longurio minimus sp.
n.l Size small wing under 18 mm.
 wings with cell Mi longpetiolate.
Male length 21 mm.
 wing 14.6 mm.
 abdomen 17.6 mm.
Female length 27 mm.
 wdng 16.4 mm.
 abdomen 22 mm.
Frontal prolongation of the head very short yellowish the nasus elongate prominent.
Palpi and mouth parts brown.
Antennae short light yellow the flagellar segments gradually decreasing in size from the base outward.
Eyes rather large metallic the front between them narrowed.
Head yellowish brown.
Thoracic dorsum browmish yellow the stripes indistinct in alcoholic material.
Pleurae dull yellow.
Halteres yellow the knob a little darker.
Legs coxae and trochanters dull light yellow femora and tibiae brownish yellow broadly brown at the tip tarsi brown.
Wings with a pale brown suffusion stigma prominent a narrow brown seam along the cord venation PI.
XXVII fig.
32 petiole of cell Mi nearly as long as the cell itself.
Abdominal tergites dull yellow 7 to 9 dark brown sternites light yellow each segment with an elongate brown subterminal median mark on the 6th and 7th segments covering the caudal end of the segment 8th sternite dark brown paler caudally hypopygium brown.
Holotype cf Tallulah Falls Rabun Co. Ga. June 17 1910 J. C. Bradley.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Paratype cf topotypic.
I am referring this insect to Longurio although it does not agree with Longurio testaceus Loew the genotype in some respects.
L. testaceus is a much larger insect male wing 25.5 mm. abdomen 36 mm.
 the cell 1st M is much larger and the petiole of cell Mi is very short.
lEschnosoma rivertonensis Johnson
a paratype of which is in my collection through the kindness of Mr. Johnson is a large fly malcj wing 22 mm. abdomen 30 mm.
with cell Mi entirely sessile.
Explanation of Plates XXV XXVI XXVII.
Plate XXV.
 Fig.
1.
 Wing of Ldmnophila subcostata Alexander.
Fig.
2.
 Wing of L. Ephelia johnsoni sp.
n. Fig.
3.
 Wing of L. nigripleura A.
 L. sp.
n. Fig.
4.
 Wing of L. novoeanglice sp.
n. Fig.
5.
 Wing of L. stanivoodce sp.
n. Fig.
6.
 Wing of L. osborni sp.
n. Fig.
7.
 Wing of Tricyphona katahdin sp.
n. Fig.
8.
 Wing of T. vernalis Osten Sacken.
Fig.
9.
 Wing of Phalacrocera replicata Linnaeus.
Fig.
10.
 Wing of P. neoxena sp.
n. Fig.
11.
 Wing of P. tipidina Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVI.
 Fig.
12.
 Wing of Erioptera Mesocyphona rubia sp.
n. Fig.
13.
 Wing of E. Erioptera dorothea sp.
n. Fig.
14.
 Wing of E. Erioptera microceUula sp.
n. J'ig.
15.
 Wing of E. Empeda alicia sp.
n. Fig.
16.
 Hypopygium of E. E. microceUula dorsal aspect of the pleurite and appendages d  dorsal appendage.
Fig.
17.
 Hypopygium oi E. E. microceUula ventral aspect of the dorsal apical appendage.
Fig.
18.
 Hypopygium of E. E. microceUula ventral aspect of the ventral gonapophyses.
Fig.
19.
 Hypopygium of E. E. lucia lateral aspect of the pleurite.
Fig.
20.
 Hypopygium of E. E. lucia dorsal aspect of the pleurite.
Fig.
21.
 Hypopygium of Gonomyia Leiponeura sacandaga dorsal aspect.
Plate XXVII.
 Fig.
22.
 Wing of Dicranomyia nelliana sp.
n. Fig.
23.
 Wing of Rhipidia Arhipidia shannoni sp.
n. Fig.
24.
 Wing of Teucholabis rubescens sp.
n. J'ig.
2.5.
 Wing of Gonomyia Leiponeura sacandaga sp.
n. Fig.
26.
 Wing of 
Gonomyia slossonoe sp.
n. Fig.
27.
 Wing of Cladura delicatula sp.
n. Fig.
28.
 Wing of Limnophila emmelina sp.
n.  Fig.
29.
 Wing of L. Dactylolabis hortensia sp.
n. Fig.
30.
 'ing of lihaphidolabis polymeroides sp.
n. Fig.
31.
 Wing of Dicranota pallida sp.
n. Fig.
32.
 Wing of Longurio minimus sp.
n. Berlin.
Entomol.
Zeilsckr. vol.
13 p. 3 1869.
' Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History vol.
34 p. 116 pi.
16 figs.
1315 1909. i November 17.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Fourteen persons present.
The Publication Committee reported that a paper under the following title had been presented for publication A biological reconnaissance of the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia November 16.
The death of J. Ronaldson Magee a member November 4 1914 was announced.
A. H Gottschall was elected a member.
Alfred Werner of Zurich and Frank Lawson Adams of Montreal were elected correspondents.
.
November 24.
The President Dr. Samuel G. Dixon in the Chair.
Special meeting.
The President announced that the object of the meeting was the presentation of the gold medal of the Hayden Memorial Geological Award to Henry Fairfield Osborn Sc.D. LL.D. in recognition of his brilliant paleontological studies.
The presentation address was made by the President.
The address was responded to by Dr. Osborn.
The following was ordered to be printed
