THE EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS MURIS IN THE INTESTINAL CELLS OF THE MOUSE.
Preliminary Note.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
As long ago as 1903 Minchin 1903 p. 308 speaking of the Sarcosporidia observes that there is still much to be made out about these interesting parasites and the field is one ripe for investigation.
Since that time it cannot be said that our knowledge of the group has been materially increased.
A number of papers on the Sarco.sporidia have indeed been published but these have been concerned with the character of the spores and cysts rather than with any attempts to elucidate the life history of this group of the Protozoa.
The exception is a contribution by Erdmann 1910 p. 377 the results of which are summed up and commented upon by Minchin 1912 pp.
421 422 as follows According to Erdmann the spore germinates in the intestine of the new host and the first act in the process is the liberation from the spore of its toxin sarcocystine which causes the adjacent epithelium of the intestine to be thrown off.
At the same time an amoebula is set free from the spore and owing to the intestine being denuded of its lining epithelium the amoebula is able to penetrate into the lymphspaces of the submucous coat and establish itself there.
Before this happens however the metachromatinic grains of the spore disappear and it is suggested that this disappearance is related to the secretion of the sarcocystine and that the toxin is contained in the metachromatinic grains.
If however a polar capsule be discharged during the germination of the spore as in other Cnidosporidia it might well be that the toxin is contained in the polar capsule and is set free by its discharge like the poison in the neniatocysts of the Ccelentera.
However that may be it would appear as if the sarcocystine were a weapon as it were the function of which is to facilitate the invasion of the germ the amcebula by destroying the lining epithelium of the gut.
The liberation of the amoebula from the spore initiates the first period of the development which is passed in the lymphspaces of the intestine and which lasts according to Erdmann some twentyeight to thirty days.
Analogy with other Neosioridia would lead us to identify this with the planontphase initiated possibly by sexual processes between different aracebuUe and subsequent active multiplication.
The second period of the development begins with the penetration of the amcebula into a musclefiber in which the parasite grows into a Miescher's tube and forms spores.
The present writer has for some time been in possession of material which illustrates the earlier stages of the cycle of Sarcocystis muris in the mouse but sufficient time has not been available completely to work out this cycle in all of its details.
Sinceihowever Erdmann's conclusions are largely erroneous and since moreover they are becoming incorporated into general works on the Protozoa it has been considered desirable to publish a brief notice giving the essential facts discovered which are of considerable theoretical interest.
A short note bearing on this matter was published in Science 1913 n. s. V. 37 p. 498 last year but this did not touch upon the more important of the discoveries made'.
As stated in the note which appeared in Science the spore when in the lumen of the intestine of the mouse does not set free an amoebula since it is itself a naked mass of protoplasm.
What actually takes place is that the spore when in the intestine of the mouse becomes endowed with the ability to display very energetic twisting and boring movements by virtue of which it forces its way into a cylinder cell of the intestinal epithelium and there comes to rest.
This takes place within 2h hours after the infecting feed and possibly much earlier.
The typical spore of Sarcocystis niuris which has been figured a number of times in the literature is a bananashaped organism about 12 long.
Spores of this sort are found both free in the lumen and in the cylinder cells in mice killed and examined at appropriate periods after the inoculative feed.
Besides these however others occur such as are shown in Plate XV figs.
1 and 2.
These are oval bodies generally about half as long as the typical spore.
The cytoplasm has a considerable affinity for chromatin stains and consists of a dense spongioplasm.
The nucleus is vesicular and more conspicuous than it is in the typical spores.
It apparently always contains either a feebly developed nuclear net fig.
3 or a karyosome or both but these lastnamed structures require heavy staining for their demonstration and in moderately or lightly stained material the appearance is as shown in figs.
1 and 2.
Figures 2 and 3 represent conditions found in a mouse killed about 2 hours after feeding.
Since however the spores in the lumen of the intestine of this mouse are in precisely the same state as those illustrated in fig.
2 the presumption is that these latter have only been in the cells a very short time.
Moreover the intracellular parasites both in 2jand 3jhour stages have at least in a certain proportion of cases undergone conspicuous changes.
These changes consist in a gradual diminution of the quantity of cytoplasm which seems either largely or completely to disappear while concommitantly there is an increase in size and complexity of the nucleus.
There is in this way produced a parasite such as is shown in fig.
4 which so far as both its history and appearance go is only the nucleus of the original spore.
The stage here represented is especially characteristic of the period about six hours after feeding.
It may however be stated that it is not certain that all of the parasites which invade the cells suffer this loss of the cytoplasm.
In mice killed nine hours after feeding this same stage as shown in fig.
4 may also be found but it is no longer abundant.
This period in the evolution of the parasite that is nine hours after feeding is characterized by a great variety of conditions of which the majority are difficult to interpret.
But by this time it has become evident that the parasites are separating into two categories which become more and more sharply differentiated as time passes and which reach their full culmination at the end of 18 hours.
The end products of these two lines of evolution are shown in figs.
9 and 11 and the interpretation placed upon them is that they are respectively males and females.
The male elements appear to arise from forms like that shown in fig.
4.
These which apparently consist of only the nucleus of the original spore show a karyosome and a nuclear net which here and there supports little aggregates of chromatin.
Later stages fig.
5 show a greater quantity of chromatin but the karyosome has disappeared.
Figure 5 is to be taken merely as representing one of a number of forms which while differing greatly in detail agree in that each possesses a nuclear net which supports a quantity of chromatin.
In some cases the chromatin occurs in a much coarser form than that shown in fig.
5 whereas in others it is present in ven minute granules distributed throughout the entire extent of a finely meshed net.
Eventually however a stage is reached such as is shown in fig.
7.
This consists of an oval lody with a stringy matrix and a row of granular aggregates arranged around the periphery.
These granular aggregates become more and more compact until finally they come to consist of solid round balls of deeply staining chromatin fig.
8.
These Ijalls in their turn elongate and transform themselves into bodies such as are shown in fig.
9 which can scarcely be other than microgametes.
As seen in sectioned material the microgametes are from 2 to 2.5 microns long with both ends pointed but one noticeably broader than the other.
They are characterized by an intense affinity for chromatin stains.
Stages such as these may occur as early as nine hours but it is not until later that they become abundant.
They reach their full development at the end of 18 hours and so far as my studies have yet gone are no longer present at the end of 24 hours.
It is only in their later developmental phases that the females can be picked out with any certainty.
They are illustrated in figs.
10 and 11 which show oval elements containing a vesicle in which is a chromatin body.
In the 18hour stage all of the parasites present with a certain exception to be noted below are either in the condition shown in figs.
7 8 and 9 or that shown in figs.
.10 and 11.
As was stated above however the parasites taken to be early male stages were apparently only nuclei since if any cytoplasm were present it was reduced to an extremely fine peripheral film.
This conclusion was based not only upon the history of these bodies but also upon their appearance.
On the other hand the bodies shown in figs 10 and 11 have all the appearance of complete cells with a considerable bulk of cytoplasm.
It may then be that from the very outset some of the parasites retain a part or the whole of their cytoplasm these being destined to produce the macrogametes.
This surmise receives a certain amount of support from what is seen in fig.
6.
This parasite appears to have retained at least the greater part of its cytoplasm.
But we have here the representative of a condition found nine hours after feeding whereas the loss of cytoplasm on the part of those parasites which suffer this deprivation may be completed as early as 2J to 3 hours.
It may then be suggested that fig.
6 represents an early female stage and if this be so it would follow that the females retain most if not all of their cytoplasm.
It may also be noted that in the periods from 9 to 18 hours parasites which are clearly females show phenomena which suggest maturation.
Finally in the 18hour period there is to be found the condition illustrated in fig.
12.
This shows a parasite in all respects like figs.
10 and 11 except for the presence in the cytoplasm of a sharply staining chromatin body.
It does not seem unreasonable to look upon this as a microgamete which has fertilized the macrogamete.
29 436 proceedings of the academy of may Bibliography Erdmann Rh.
1910.
Die Entwicklung der Sarcocystis muris in der Muskulatur.
Read 8.
Nov.  Sitzungsb.
d. Gesellsch.
naturf .
Fr.
zu Bed.
9 Nov. pp.
377387 figs.
AE Pis.
18 19 figs.
114.
MiNCHiN Edward Alfred.
1903.
Protozoa.
TheSporozoa.
n  A treatise on zoology edited by E. Ray Lankester.
8.
London.
Part 1 fasc.
2 pp.
150360 figs.
1127.
1912.
An introduction to the study of the Protozoa with special reference to the parasitic forms xi  517 pp. 194 figs.
8.
London.
Explanation of Plate XV.
The figures were in all cases made by the author from camera outlines and later copied in ink by Mr. Haines artist of the Bureau of Animal Industry.
The optical system consisted of a 2mm.
apochromatic objective and No.
18 compensating eyepiece yielding a magnification of about 3530 diameters.
In reproduction the drawings have been reduced in the ratio of 3 to 2 and hence are about 2350 times larger than the actual object.
Fig.
1.
 Shortened spore free in the lumen of the intestine.
Two to two and onehalf hour period.
Giemsa stain.
Fig.
2.
 Spores in the cylinder cells of the host.
Two to two and onehalf hour period.
Giemsa stain.
Fig.
3.
 Spore in a cylinder cell of the host.
Two to two and onehalf hour period.
Wright's stain.
Fig.
4.
 Form from which the males are supposed to arise.
Taken from a ninehour period.
Delafield's hsematoxylin and eosin.
Fig.
5.
 Supposed early male stage.
Ninehour period.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Fig.
6.
 Supposed early female stage.
Ninehour period.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Fig.
7.
 Microgametocyte with granular nuclei.
Eighteenhour period.
Wright's stain.
Fig.
8.
 Microgametocyte with solid nuclei.
Taken from a mouse killed nine hours after feeding in which this stage is very rare.
Iron hiematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Fig.
9.
 Microgametocyte in which the microgametes are fully ripe.
Eighteenhour period.
Wright's stain.
Fig.
10.
 Macrogamete.
Seventeenhour period.
Iron hamatoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Stages such as this are more commonly found in the subepithelial spaces than in the cells themselves.
Fig.
11.
 Macrogamete.
Eighteenhour period.
Wright's stain.
Fig.
12.
 Supposed fertilization.
Eighteenhour period.
Wright's stain.
Parasites showing the supposed fertilization were not found in the cells themselves but in the spaces beneath the epithelium.
