IV CONTENTS.
PAGE Pilsbry Henry A.
Notes on the anatomy of Oreohelix with a catalogue of the species Plates XIX XX XXI XXII 340 IIkiin.
.
I ames A. G. and Morgan Hebard.
Studies in the Dermaptera and Orthoptera of the Coastal Plain and Piedmont Section of the southeastern United Stales Plates XII XIII XIV 87 Thomson Elihu.
See Barringer D. M. Viereck Henry L. New species of North American bees of the genus Andrena from west of the 100th Meridian contained in the collections of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 550 Wade Bruce.
New genera and species of Gastropoda from the Upper Cretaceous Plates XXIII XXIV 455 OF THE OF 1916.
January 18.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
Thirtysix persons present.
The death of Daniel Giraud Elliot a member December 22 1915 was announced.
The Publication Committee announced the presentation of papers under the following titles Revision of Cayuga Lake spiders by Nathan Banks December 2 1915.
Studies in the Dermaptera and Orthoptera of the Coastal Plains and Piedmont Region of the southeastern United States by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard January 17.
Fossil birds' eggs by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt January 18.
Prof. William P. Magie and Daniel Moreau Barringer made communications on the Meteor Crater of Arizona illustrated by lantern slides.
No abstract.
The following were elected members Walter Sonneberg.
William S. Huntington.
Samuel T. Bodine.
David Wilbur Horn Ph.D.
The following was ordered to be printed THE SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS MUEIS.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
A number of years ago at the University of Pennsylvania an investigation of the early stages of the evolution of Sarcocystis maris in the intestinal cells of the mouse was undertaken.
This investigation was interrupted for several years but was resumed at the laboratory of the Zoological Division of the Bureau of Animal Industry Washington D. C and the first definite results obtained were outlined in a preliminary note published in 1914 Crawley 1914.
In this note it was shown that following ingestion of the socalled spores of this parasite penetration of the intestinal cells of the mouse was effected within about two hours.
Once within the cells the spores rapidly underwent profound changes and after the lapse of about nine hours they had separated into two categories which were interpreted to represent males and females.
In the case of the supposed males development took the form of a loss of most if not all of the cytoplasm so that the parasite became reduced to a nucleus .
which however was of considerably larger size than that of the original spore.
Later the chromatin of this nucleus became collected into a number of small rounded masses placed at the periphery.
These masses at first granular later became solid and eventually transformed themselves into elongated threadlike bodies which were interpreted to be microgametes.
This evolution was completed at the end of 18 hours.
Meanwhile others of the original spores went through a wholly different course of development which was not at the time considered in detail.
It was evident however that these elements retained their cytoplasm and eventually transformed themselves into oval cells with rather dense cytoplasm and a vesicular nucleus containing a large karyosome.
These which were interpreted to be females also reached the end of their development within 18 hours.
Finally appearances suggesting fertilization were noted.
At the time when this preliminary notice was prepared my material for the later stages from 12 to 18 hours was abundant and the conclusions as published were based on the findings in a number of mice.
On the other hand for the early stages only three mice were available these representing respectively the 2 to 2 hour the 3 to 3 hour and the 3 and 5 hour stages the last being a mouse given two infecting U'U between which was an interval of 3 hours and killed 3 hours after the second meal.
It was therefore considered desirable to obtain more material for these earlier stage and the results to be set forth herein are based upon the examination of a number of mice killed at periods of from one hour onward.
Material and Methods.
A list of the mice used with appropriate explanatory matter is placed at the end of the present section.
During the entire course of the studies on sarcosporidiosis every mouse obtained in whatsoever manner was given a number.
In many cases these were trapped gray mice or else white mice which had never been inoculated.
Hence those used for the microscopical study of the evolution of the parasites in the cells represent but a portion of the entire series.
It has been considered better how T ever to retain the numbers originally given since no confusion can possibly arise from such a procedure.
In the list appended the time in hours elapsing between the infecting meal and the death of the mouse has been placed immediately after the number of the mouse since this is the most important datum.
After this the fixing fluid is noted and finally a statement with reference to the quantity of infectious material which the mouse ate is appended.
The omission of these data in a number of cases indicates a failure to keep the record complete.
The list as given includes38 mice and the conclusions as set forth herein are thus based on this number of experimental animals.
It is desired to lay emphasis on this point on account of the possibility of confusion with other intestinal Protozoa such as Coccidia.
Erdmann 1914 endeavored to obtain mice in which the possibility of extraneous infection was excluded.
The procedure was to raise mice from birth under as sterile conditions as possible.
This of course is the ideal method but as Erdmann states it is tedious and difficult.
The other method is to use a large series of mice which will presumably yield results that cannot be questioned.
Thus if after feeding parasites are found in the cells which are evidently Sarcocystis spores and if as time passes these intracellular elements undergo serial changes it would seem to be hypercritical to question their identity as stages in the evolution of Sarcocystis muris.
For it would be necessary to assume that each experimental mouse harbored Coccidia in addition to the Sarcosporidia and that in each and every case the Coccidia happened to be in precisely such a stage as to resemble the Sarcosporidia.
The mathematical probability of this taking place diminishes with the number of mice used and when this number is large becomes a vanishing quantity.
Of course since protozoan infections naturally tend to assume the epizootic form if one or two mice from a given cage were found to be infected with Coccidia the surmise would be warranted that many or all of the others were so infected.
But in the case of the series upon which the present studies were based the mice were obtained from various sources and from various places and in many cases had never been in contact.
It is therefore believed that the results as stated are valid so far as concerns the possibility of confusion with Coccidia.
The mice selected for inoculation were deprived of food for 24 hours.
This served a twofold purpose.
It rendered them more prone to eat the infectious material when given and it served to free the intestine of halfdigested vegetable food the presence of which interferes with sectioning.
For the short periods up to 18 hours or so the mice were given a piece of infected muscle of what was regarded as an appropriate size.
This was larger or smaller according to the number of cysts it contained and when these were abundant the portion given had a weight of the order of onetenth of a gram.
When the mouse is given its infecting meal any one of several things may happen.
Some mice positively refuse to touch the meat while others merely play with it for a time and then abandon it.
More usually however the mous feeds and the customary method is for it to hold the food in its forepaws and nibble at it until it is all consumed.
This procedure however may be interrupted by delays but if the entire time required to finish the meal is short in comparison with that to elapse between feeding and death the mouse may be used.
Finally in some cases the meal was bolted in the manner in which a dog feeds.
At the end of the proper period the mouse was chloroformed opened and the alimentary canal removed.
In nearly all cases it was placed in the killing fluid entire being neither cut into pieces nor slit open.
The intestine of a mouse has such thin walls that the fluids have no difficulty in penetrating and this procedure does away with the rough handling necessary in slitting the intestine.
It moreover retained the intestinal contents an obvious advantage and a comparison with slit intestines showed that the fixation was equally accurate.
The only disadvantage was that at times the penetrationof the fluids from the muscularis toward the epithelium resulted in the latter being torn loose from the underlying connective tissue.
At least this phenomenon was not infrequently manifesl and is presumably to be credited to the direction of entrance of the fluids.
Following fixation each intestine was cut into pieceof a convenient length for embedding in paraffin.
In general the small intestine was cut into 25 to 30 pieces which were numbered as a rule from the anterior to the posterior end.
Thus int.
1 of a given mouse indicated the piece immediately following the stomach the highest or last number that piece immediately in front of the csecum.
Sometimes however this process was reversed the last piece of the intestine being designated as int.
 1 the next to the last int.
 2 and so on the negative sign's serving to distinguish such cases from the more usual procedure.
This as already noted is applicable to the small intestine alone the caecum and large intestine being given other designations.
The procedure as outlined above was not however always followed.
The fixing fluids used were 1.
Hermann's fluid stronger formula.
2.
Zenker's fluid.
3.
Picroacetic acid made by reducing a saturated aqueous solution of picric acid to onehalf strength with water and adding 1 per cent glacial acetic acid.
4.
An alcoholiccorrosiveacetic mixture designated in the text as A. C. A.
The formula for this is as follows Saturated aqueous solution of mercuric chloride 50 parts.
Alcohol 95 percent 50 parts.
Glacial acetic acid '5 parts.
Of these Hermann's fluid and the picroacetic mixture the latter despite Lee's strictures gave the most delicate fixation.
Zenker's fluid is not to be recommended since it leaves the tissues in poor condition for staining and is at best a mediocre fixative.
The A. C. A. fluid while scarcely so accurate as Hermann's fluid is none the less a very good fixative.
It is moreover very convenient since the tissues can be passed directly from it into alcohol and it leaves the material in excellent condition for staining.
The material was stained both in bulk and on the slide.
While t here is a prejudice against the former method for delicate cytological work.
Delafield's hematoxylin counterstained on the slide with alcoholic eosin or acid fuchsin dissolved in 95 per cent alcohol gives results not far short of the best slide staining.
The use of counterstains in alcohol is a great timesaving device since the preparation has but to be passed from xylol to absolute alcohol to 95 per cent alcohol to the stain and back again to be ready for the Canada balsam.
Moreover if acid fuchsin be used one quick dip in the stain is sufficient.
For slide staining iron hsematoxylin Wright's and Giemsa stains and thionin were used either with or without counterstains.
The blood stains used alone are unsatisfactory since only the blue ingredients seem to take hold of the tissues.
Wright's stain counterstained with alcoholic eosin however gave very good results.
The technique was as follows The slide holding the sections was first treated as a blood smear and allowed to lie with the mixture of stain and water upon it for 10 to 15 minutes.
It was then washed first in water and then in 95 per cent alcohol until all of the precipitated stain had dissolved.
It was then stained with eosin dissolved in absolute alcohol next passed into clean absolute alcohol and finally into xylol.
Wright's stain comes out very rapidly in alcohol but the whole procedure as above outlined can be completed in a very short time.
Thionin preparations counterstained in either alcoholic eosin or acid fuchsin in alcohol were largely used and gave in some respects the best results.
Preparations so stained display beautifully sharp and clearcut pictures and they are very good when it is a question of bringing out the chemical qualities of different parts of the parasites.
On the other hand thionin fails to bring out certain granules in these Sarcosporidia which are perhaps significant and slides stained in thionin are not permanent.
Accordingly most of the slides were stained with iron hsematoxylin.
With material fixed in Hermann's fluid a counterstain is not necessary although it was often used.
With the other fixatives a counterstain was necessary and acid fuchsin was the one most generally employed.
The list of mice used follows Mouse 77 15 hours.
99 3 and 6 hours.
106 ... 9hours A. C. A Heavymeal.
120 .
10i and 17 hours Heavymeal.
121 10 and 17 hours Heavymeal.
L25 2J hours Hermann's fluid.
128 3f hours Picroacetic.
132 .... 8J hours Hermann's fluid Heavymeal.
133 9 hours Hermann's fluid Heavy meal.
145 llfhours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal.
1 Mi Hi hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal.
147 'J 1 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal.
IIS IShours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal.

I
24 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal.
.
 24 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal.
152 18 hours.
Hermann's fluid.
153 24hours Hermann's fluid Heavy meal.
1.
I 24 hours.
175 12'.
hours Hermann's flui 171 i.l hours Hermann's fluid.
177 14 Jhours Hermann's fluid.
178 I.
 1  hours Hermann's fluid.
179 16 hours Hermann's fluid 180 17'.
hours Hermann's fluid.
lsi ISA hours Hermann's fluid.
182 IShours Hermann's fluid.
246 1 hour A. C. A Lightmeal.
247 4 hours r..A. C. A Heavy meal.
'MS 2 hours A. C. A Moderate meal.
'o 3hours A. C. A Moderate meal.
''.
 .
 hours.
A. C. A Heavymeal.
'.
1 1  hours A. C. A Very light meal.
252 2 hours A. C. A Very light meal.
253 6hours A. C. A Heavy meal.
'.
7 3 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal.
258 4 hours A. C. A Moderate meal.
261.
4 hours Hermann's fluid Heavymeal.
262 5 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal.
Prior to taking up the description of the findings in the cells it is desirable to call attention to a phenomenon first signalized by Erdmann 1910.
This is the exfoliation of the intestinal epithelium which appears to follow ingestion of the spores of Sarcocystis.
The natural inference would be that this was due to the invasion and subsequent destruction of the cells by the parasites and such was my original idea Crawley 1913.
No doubt a certain amount of exfoliation is to be accounted for in this way but other factors are involved.
Thus Erdmann found that the ingestion of an extract of Sarcocystis cysts from which the spores themselves had been removed was followed by exfoliation and data that I shall now give show that the exfoliation takes place before any extensive invasion of the cells.
The intestines of a series of mice all of which had been killed within 6 hours after feeding were examined and the conditions presented by the epithelium in various parts of the intestine noted.
The results of this examination are tabulated below.
Where no exfoliation was demonstrable the condition is indicated by the word none.
Where however it is in evidence it is designated as lie lit moderate or severe according to its degree.
Mouse 246 1hour Stage.
Int.
1 Exfoliation slight.
3 Exfoliation moderate.
5 Exfoliation none.
7 Exfoliation slight.
9 Exfoliation slight.
11 Exfoliation modern te.
13 Exfoliation severe.
15 Exfoliation severe.
17 Exfoliation slight.
19 Exfoliation none.
21 Exfoliation severe.
23 Exfoliation slight 25 Exfoliation none.
Mouse 251 1hour Stage.
Int.
1 Exfoliation none.
3 .
Exfoliation none.
7 Exfoliation none.
9 Exfoliation none.
Mouse 248 2hour Stage.
Int.
3 Exfoliation slight.
8 Exfoliation none.
9 Exfoliation none.
15 Exfoliation slight 21 Exfoliation slight 26 Exfoliation none.
27 Exfoliation none.
28 Exfoliation none.
30 Exfoliation very slight.
32 Exfoliation very slight Mouse 249 3hour Stage.
Int.
2 Exfoliation moderate.
6 Exfoliation none.
8 Exfoliation none.
10 Exfoliation none.
12 Exfoliation none.
17 Exf oliat ion moderate.
18 Exfoliation slight.
19 Exfoliation slight 20 Exf oliat ion very slight .
22 Exf oliat ion none.
24 Exfoliation none.
29 Exfoliation slight 30 Exfoliation none.
31 Exfoliation none.
Mouse 261 4hour Stage.
Int.
 1 Exf oliat ion none.
 3 Exfoliation slight  5 Exfoliation slight.
Mouse 247 4hour Stage.
Int.
12 Exfoliation none.
14 Exfoliation none.
16 Exfoliation slighl .
Is Exfoliation slight.
19.. Exfolial ion slighl .
30 Exfoliation slight.
31 Exfolial ion very slighl .
Mouse 262 5 to 3hour Stack.
Int.
 1 Exfoliation none.
 2 Exfoliation slight.
3 Exfoliation slight.
4 Exfoliation severe.
5 '.
Exfolial ion moderate.
6 Exfoliation mode rate.
Mouse 250 5hour Stage.
Int .
21 Exfoliation none.
22 Exfoliation none.
30 Exfoliation moderate.
31 Exfoliation moderate.
32 Exfoliation slight.
33 Exfoliation moderate.
Mouse 253 6hour Stage.
Int.
10 Exfoliation slight.
15 Exfoliation slight.
16 Exfoliation none.
19 Exfoliation questionable.
25 Exfoliation slight.
27 Exfoliation none.
28 Exf oliat ion none.
29 Exfoliation none.
As already stated as a result of the method of fixing the mouse intestine the epithelial row was at times torn loose from the subepithelial connective tissue.
It thus results that in some cases the material presented a decidedly battered appearance.
While however the epithelial row itself might thus be torn loose and more or less broken the individual cells were not thereby injured and their appearance indicated an accurate fixation.
On the other hand it was frequently possible to see that the cells at the tips of the villi were abnormal this abnormality expressing itself in a loss of staining capacity on the part of the cytoplasm and an obvious degeneracy of the nuclei.
This degeneracy at first affecting only the cells at the tips of the villi passes into a condition in which these cells have disappeared while those lying along the sides of the villi are affected.
This condition in its turn passes into one 'in which the villi are represented merely by stumps of connective tissue the epithelium being present only in the regions between the bases of the villi.
Finally a stage is reached in which the intestine is wholly denuded of epithelium.
In the lists given the term slight defines those conditions in which epithelial degeneration is just beginning to be manifest and moderate conditions where the tips of the villi are seriously affected and severe conditions where the destructive influence has gone further.
The data given in the above lists seem to establish the fact that exfoliation of the epithelium is correlated with ingestion of the spores of Sarcosporidia but they are not consistent amongst themselves.
Thus mouse 248 a 2hour stage is not so badly affected as mouse 246 killed only one hour after feeding whereas mouse 251 a Hhour stage shows no exfoliation at all although in this last case observations were confined to only a small part of the intestine.
In the cases of Nos.
249 and 261 both 3hour stages and No.
247 4hour exfoliation is not extensive while No.
262 5to 3hour shows a considerable amount near the posterior end of the intestine as does also No.
250 5hour.
On the other hand mouse 253 killed 6 hours after feeding is but slightly affected.
In view of the rather contradictory nature of the data it is impossible to attempt any explanation of the modus operandi of loss of the epithelium.
Erdmann suggested that the destruction of the epithelium was an adaptation having for its purpose the easier penetration of the spores into the tissues of the mouse.
Presumably this destruction is correlated with ingestion of the parasites but if it be of any value to host or parasite it seems more plausible to regard it as a defensive move on the part of the former.
In their attack upon the mouse the parasites first invade the epithelial cells and this they do within the first two or three hours.
Obviously then the destruction of this epithelium either before or after penetration by the parasites can only work to their disadvantage.
Hence while it is possible to look upon this exfoliation as an adaptation on the part of the host there seems no good reason for so doing.
It is a matter of observation that exfoliation follows the ingestion of sarcosporidian cysts but it is also a matter of observation that such ingestion is practically always followed by infection of the muscles.
Hence the exfoliation is obviously not protective.
The matter is however one of minor importance and the data are merely given for what they are worth.
Evolution of the Parasites in the Cells.
.
The account of the findings in the cells may appropriately be begun with mouse 246 killed one hour after feeding.
As indicated in the table on p. 8 slides were prepared from the alternate pieces of the intestine from one end to the other.
The anterior portions Nos.
1 to 11 were wholly negative there being no spores cither in the lumen or in the cells.
Beginning with int.
13 however spores were present in the lumen and they were seen in the cells in int.
19 23 and 25.
Their absence from int.
21 is to he credited to the severe exfoliation there present.
From int.
13 where the spores were first seen in the lumen there was a rapid increase in their numbers in each successive piece and in the lumina of int.
23 and 25 they were present in enormous numbers.
From this it is evident that it requires but one hour for the ingested spores to reach the extreme posterior end of the small intestine and as shown both by this and other mice apparently the great majority of them reach this situation very quickly.
While they have also been found in the caecum in very early stages they evidently do not pass from the small intestine into the caecum as readily as they pass along the small intestine itself.
This is evidenced by the fact that in the earlier stages  up to 9 hours or thereabouts  the lasl two or three centimeters of the small intestine always harbor spores free in the lumen.
There is thus brought about a state of affairs of some interest when the earlier stages of the evolution of the parasites is under consideration.
It is evident that the spores pass along the small intestine very rapidly until the posterior end is reached.
The length of time required for this stream of spores to pass a given point will obviously vary in the different mice.
In those cases where as a result of prolonged nibbling the ingested meat reaches the stomach thoroughly comminuted we may presume that its stay in the stomach is shortened and its movement along the small intestine more rapid.
On the other hand when the meal is swallowed in large pieces the presumption is that it will remain in the stomach until it is softened and disintegrated and in consequence its progress along the small intestine will be delayed.
Nevertheless digestion in mice of purely animal matter is rapid and in general at the end of a few hours spores are scarce in the lumen of the upper and middle portions of the small intestine.
If as a pure guess we may assume that the stream of spores requires one hour to pass a given point then the spores within the cells in any particular part of the intestine except the posterior end will all have entered the cells within an hour of one another.
On the other hand as we have seen great numbers of the spores reach the posterior part of the intestine within one hour and remain there for several hours as is shown by finding them in this situation in 9hour stages.
During the whole of this time it cannot be questioned that individuals are constantly penetrating the cells.
Therefore it seems reasonable to assume that within certain limits the intracellular spores in a given section of the upper or middle parts of the intestine will be in somewhat the same developmental stage.
On the contrary in the posterior part of the intestine the intracellular spores will represent a series in the development covering the greater part of the period of time elapsing between feeding and the death of the mouse.
Thus in a 9hour mouse the parasites in the cells of this extreme posterior part of the intestine might represent forms which had been in the cells from only a few minutes up to seven or eight hours and in Nos.
132 and 133 it was evident that this was the case.
It further follows that in these posterior portions many more cells are parasitized than elsewhere since there is here maintained for several hours a large supply of extracellular spores.
Returning to the conditions as found in mouse 246 intracellular spores in small numbers were found in int.
19 23 and 25.
These of course represented the very earliest stages in the development and in the main were not to be distinguished from those in the lumen.
In some cases however development had begun thus demonstrating the extreme rapidity with which these parasites go through with their evolution.
The mounted material of this mouse however was prepared with a view of getting a general survey of the conditions rather than for detailed cytologicaL study.
Hence no figures of the parasites as found here have been made.
Mouse 251.
 Mouse 251 was killed 1 hours after feeding.
According to the observations made at the time of the infecting teed it received a very light meal but when the stomach and intestine were prepared for study the findings suggested that whereas relatively the meal may have been very light positively such a definition seemed scarcely appropriate.
In the stomach from which the epithelium had largely disappeared there were abundant cysts of the parasite many of which were more or less intact and contained the greater number of the spores.
In int.
1 3 5 and 7 there were abundant spores in the lumen and in int.
9 they were present both in the lumen and in the cells.
Comparing the conditions found here with those in mouse 246 it is to be noted that in the latter the spores were further back toward the end of the intestine.
In No.
246 the upper portions of the intestine were free of spores whereas in 251 these same portions contained them in considerable abundance.
These differences are.
as already suggested probably to be accredited to differences in the manner in which the two mice led.
Taking up now the evolution of the spores within the intestine of the mouse we may advantageously use as a point of departure the pore as it occurs free in the lumen for it is evident that development lu 'gins here.
Plate I fig.
2 portrays such a spore and may be taken as the point of departure although in all the early stages the spores in the lumen are identical with many of those in the cells.
This particular case is from mouse 248 a 2hour stage but it is valid for any of the early stages.
The characteristics of this stage are as follows The contours of the cell are sharp and clear cut and there is a distinct bounding line or periplast.
The cytoplasm while obviously alveolar is dense and ordinarily stains well.
Granules may or may not be present.
The nucleus which is conspicuous is round and gives the appearance as though in life it were turgid with nuclear sap.
There is a distinct nuclear membrane and a more or less distinct nuclear net is always present.
With regard to its shape the spore in the lumen may be a smooth oval as for examples are the intracellular spores shown in Plate I figs.
3 and 4 or it may have the sides more or less bulged out in the region of the nucleus.
This latter phenomenon is due to the increase in size of the nucleus a process initiated very shortly after the spore reaches the alimentary canal of the mouse.
The appearance of the spores in the intestine whether they be in the lumen or in the cells offers a considerable contrast to that of spores removed from the cysts.
.
With regard to these latter a description is herewith given although they are familiar objects in the literature and have been described and figured a number of times.
Such spores are shown in Plate I fig.
1.
As is here indicated one end of the spore is broader the other end narrower and the nucleus lies nearer the narrow end.
The internal structure is obscure.
The nucleus is a clearcut vesicle and to all appearances is provided with a definitive membrane.
Xo internal structure can be made out and the staining reaction is feeble.
In Giemsa preparationit stains a pale reddish color.
The cytoplasm with Giemsa stains a dense blue.
Its structure can scarcely be determined but it may be inferred that it is alveolar.
It is densest in the immediate vicinity of the nucleus.
The broad end of the spore is frequently much less dense than elsewhere and at times shows a more or less well defined oval area.
This appearance however is probably due merely to the fact that here the cytoplasm has a lower affinity for the stain than elsewhere.
The same phenomenon is shown by the spores of Sarcocystis leporum Crawley 1914.
In the case of the rabbit parasite as I have endeavored to show one end of the spore seems to be differentiated into a sort of rostrum the cytoplasm of which does not stain as densely as does that of the balance of the spore.
We are probably dealing with the same thing in the case of Sarcocystis muris but in this parasite the differentiation of the rostrum is not so sharp.
It may furthermore be suggested that it is this clearer region in the spore which has given rise to the belief expressed by some authors that the sarcosporidian spore possesses a polar capsule.
Comparing the spores taken directly from a cyst with those in the intestine the latter are broader more oval bodies and although this is not shown by the figures there has been a loss of the granules which are such a characteristic feature of the former.
The most noteworthy change however concerns the nucleus which has become larger apparently much more turgid and begins to show a nuclear net.
It is thus evident that evolution begins as soon as the spore reaches the intestine of the mouse and apparently the most important step is a great increase in activity of the nucleus.
This evolution however does not appear to be carried far unless the spore gains a resting place within a cell of the host.
The cells invaded are the cylinder cells.
At least this is so in the vast majority of cases.
Now and then however parasites are to be found in mucous cells but since the presence of a parasite in a cell may result in mucoid degeneration it is difficult to diagnose such instances.
The parasite may have invaded a mucous cell or it may have caused mucoid degeneration of a cylinder cell.
This question however appears to be of no great importance.
It is also well to emphasize the point that the spore is a naked mass of protoplasm and that the only differentiation displayed by the cytoplasm is the peripheral condensation into a periplastic layer.
Statements to the effect that the spore opens and releases an amcebula are wholly without warrant and polar filaments either coiled up within one end of the cell or discharged do not exist.
Claims of this sort which have appeared in the literature from time to time seem to be due to an unfortunate desire to correlate the Sarcosporidia with the Myxosporidia.
These two groups may of course be closely related bu1 as yet there is no conclusive evidence on hand to show that they are.
Plate I. figs.
3 and 1 show spores in the cells of int.
9 of mouse 2.51 a lhour stage.
It is to be noted that each of these lies in a vacuole.
Probably they have not been in the cells for more than an hour.
In both of them the cytoplasm is dense compact and deeply staining.
In both of them also the nucleus has enlarged and is separated from the periplast only by very narrow strips of cytoplasm.
There is however a difference in the nature of the net in these two nuclei.
In the case of fig.
3 the meshes in the centre are solidly filled with chromatin whereas in that of fig.
4 the chromatin is divided into separate masses.
In all of these early stages the chromatin has a low affinity for stains and following the rule which seems to hold generally true in Protozoa takes the acid rather than the basic i a ins.
On this account it results that these nuclei are rather difficult microscopical objects and seen with powers of less than 1000 diameters a nucleus like that of fig.
3 looks like a vesicle containing only a central granule.
But with a magnification of 1500 to 2000 and an intense artificial light the structure as shown in the figure is brought out.
As will be shown later fig.
3 represents the more primitive condition in which the chromatin is concentrated into a single mass within which however the meshes of the nuclear net can be traced.
In the case of fig.
4 the chromatin occurs in separate masses and the central meshes of the net are largely clear.
Nuclei precisely like either of these may be seen in spores in the lumen.
Mouse 24S.
 Mouse 248 was killed two hours after feeding.
Its intestine was cut into 32 pieces int.
32 representing the extreme posterior portion.
Observations were made on int.
3 9 15 21 27 and 32.
In the upper portions there were scattered spores in the lumen and occasional specimens in the cells but following the general rule parasitization was not extensive until the more posterior parts were reached.
Plate I fig.
5 from int.
27 shows a parasite lying in the usual vacuole close to the free edge of the epithelium.
The cytoplasm is dense while the nucleus shows very distinctly a nuclear net supporting scattered chromatin granules.
The nucleus in this case lies near one end of the cell.
Fig.
6 from int.
30 also represents what is clearly a very early stage.
The cytoplasm is dense and compact.
the cell contours are sharp and a periplast can be seen.
The nucleus however shows merely as a faintly stained vacuole containing some formed substance the details of which could not be made out.
It may here be remarked that in most of the cell parasites the nucleus appears as a vesicle containing a nuclear net and that in general this nuclear net is the only part of the nucleus that stains.
Hence the net appears as though projected against a clear background.
On the other hand it is frequently to be observed in the spores free in the lumen and much less frequently in those in the cells that the nuclear sap as well as the nuclear net has taken the stain thus obscuring the details of the latter.
This condition is illustrated by .
6.
In the preliminary note it was stated that at least a portion of the intracellular spores rapidly underwent a change which expressed itself in a reduction of the cytoplasm and an increase in the size of the nucleus the ultimate result of which was the production of a body which was apparently only the enlarged original nucleus the cytoplasm having apparently all disappeared.
This it was stated was interpreted to be the male form.
This evolution is illustrated in Plate I figs.
7 to 11.
Fig.
7 shows the nuclear enlargement with no great amount of cytoplasmic reduction.
The nucleus is large and turgid it causes the sides of the parasite to bulge and shows a distinct net.
This net consists of a central aggregation from which strands run to the periphery.
As already indicated in the discussion of figs.
3 and 4 whereas the appearance of this central aggregation differs considerably in the different specimens its structure appears to be fundamentally the same throughout.
It seems to lie merely the closemeshed central part of the nuclear net with the interspaces sometimes empty and sometimes filled in with faintly staining chromatin.
The latter is the more primitive condition.
The parasite shown in fig.
7 was from int.
15 or about the middle of the intestine and hence is presumably that of a parasite which has been within the cell for some little time.
Except however for the notable enlargement of the nucleus it has all the characteristics of a very early stage.
Fig.
8 from int.
30 represents a condition in which there has been as yet no great amount of nuclear enlargement but a slight degree of cytoplasmic degeneration.
In fig.
9 there is shown nuclear enlargement accompanied by a consiclerable degree of cytoplasmic degeneration as is evidenced by the vacuolization and rough contours of the cell.
In fig.
10 the nucleus projects out from the sides of the cell while the cytoplasm is reduced and shows uneven contours.
In fig.
11 there is seen both nuclear enlargement and cytoplasmic reduction.
The initial steps in the evolution of the male element are illustrated by the figures just described.
The details of this evolution vary greatly and it is doubtless true that this variation in detail is the result not only of variations in the actual biological process itself but is also dependent on the technique.
Thus in iron hsematoxylin preparations there are always associated with the nucleus one or more intensely black granules which are either not visible at all or only faintly visible in Delaficld or thionin preparations.
Furthermore in material stained in thionin the cytoplasm is frequently seen to be separated into two portions as shown in Plate I figs.
12 13 and 14.
Here the cytoplasm is broken up into a number of lumps or streaks either lying embedded in a faintly staining ground substance figs.
12 and 14 or apparently lying free in the vacuole which the parasite always produces in the mouse cell fig.
13.
It is evident that one of these conditions is readily derivable from the other.
Thus in figs.
12 and 14 the cytoplasm has separated into a chromophil substance lying within an almost achromatic substance.
This latter gradually diappears producing the condition shown in fig.
13.
A high affinity for chromatin stains is characteristic of the byproducts of protoplasm and is especially well brought out by thionin.
Thus in material so stained both degenerate nuclei and mucus are deeply stained.
In the former case we are dealing with a pathological in the latter with a physiological process but in both with protoplasmic byproducts.
In the case of these Sarcosporidia the great increase in the size of the nucleus seems to predicate a supply of pabulum and the suggestion is at least permissible that this pabulum is supplied by the cytoplasm.
If this were so the presumption would be that the densely staining flecks as noted in figs.
12 13 and 14 represent the cytoplasmic debris remaining after the nucleus has robbed the cytoplasm of a part of its substance.
It is of course to be understood that the above is put forth merely as a possibility the matter being one scarcely open to a rigid demonstration.
Mouse 125.
 As noted in the list given on p. 6 this mouse represents the conditions from 2 to 2 hours after feeding.
These are in all essentials the same as those of mouse 248 as is evidenced by figs.
15 16 and 17.
In the case of fig.
17 Plate II it is to be noted that 2 the cytoplasm is greatly reduced in quantity and is vacuolated while in all three the nucleus is enlarged and shows the usual nuclear net.
Mouse 249.
 This animal was killed three hours after feeding.
Its intestine was cut into 31 pieces numbered from 1 to 31.
Observations were made upon the stomach and upon int.
2 6 8 10 12 18 20 22 30 and 31.
The stomach and the first five pieces of the intestine examined were negative.
In int.
18 spores were present in the lumen in int.
20 22 30 and 31 they were found both in the lumen and in the cells.
It has already been shown p. 11 that in some of the mice the spores move along the intestine very rapidly yet it is always to be remembered that the failure to find them in a few selected slides is not proof of their absence from the particular portions of the intestine from which these slides were made.
In this mouse it seems unlikely that so much of the intestine was actually negative.
It is in mouse 249 that the differentiation into males and females first begins to be noticeable.
In the case of the males in which the characteristic changes consist of a great enlargement of the nucleus and a reduction of the cytoplasm there is no confusion since these changes are conspicuous and readily detected.
Thus Plate II figs.
18 19 and 20 are all obviously males since they all show nuclear enlargement and cytoplasmic reduction.
A particularly good earmark of the males is the fact that the nucleus is not surrounded by cytoplasm the parasites consisting fig.
18 of an enlarged nucleus provided with two tongueor capshaped masses of cytoplasm.
The 'conspicuous black granule mentioned above as appearing in iron hematoxylin stains is to be seen in fig.
20 whereas fig.
19 shows a stage wherein the cytoplasm is nearly gone and the nucleus has reached a size equal to that of many of the entire parasites.
On the other hand the differences between the female and the original spore are by no means so striking.
The female is relatively shorter and broader while the nucleus is sometimes larger and as a rule shows the chromatin concentrated into a single large karyosome.
There is however no loss of cytoplasm.
Moreover with an exception to be noted below the female undergoes no such conspicuous changes in the course of its evolution as does the male.
In consequence in these early stages it is always difficult and sometimes impossible to say whether a given parasite is a female or merely one which has been in the cell a short time.
Hence it is only with much reserve that fig.
21  Plate II may be pronounced that of a female.
It possesses however the rather densely staining cytoplasm characteristic for the females and the nucleus is too small for a male.
The deeply staining granules present in iron hematoxylin material are here in evidence.
Fig.
22 probably also represents a female since it is a smoothly oval cell with dense cytoplasm and the nucleus while large does not cause any protrusion of the sides of the cell.
The radiate nuclear structure in this parasite is peculiar for such an early stage and may represent a very precocious case of maturation see p. 30.
Mouse 126.
 This mouse was given the flesh of an infected animal at a stated time and required onehalf an hour to complete its meal.
It was killed three hours later and in consequence 1 represents the conditions 3 to 3h hours after inoculation.
Figs.
23 and 24 Plate II .iie from this mouse and show early male stages as evidenced by the enlarged nuclei and the scanty quantity of cytoplasm present.
Mouse 261.
 Mouse 261 was given a piece of infected muscle at 10 A.M. Feb. 15 1915.
It began to eat at once and consumed a considerable quantity of the infected material but did not then complete the meal.
At 2 P.M. the mouse was chloroformed the infected muscle having been eaten in the interim.
Hence it represents the conditions from 4 hours down to some shorter period.
The only portions of the intestine examined in this case were int.
1 to int.
 5 or the last five pieces.
The intestine of this mouse was slit open prior to fixation and in consequence the spores in the lumen were lost.
Since the study here was confined to the last few centimeters of the intestine a given intracellular spore might have been in its place anywhere from a few minutes to three hours or more and hence it is impossible to pick out the early female stages with any degree of certainty.
Thus fig.
25 might be either that of an early female stage or of a parasite which had been in the cell for only a short time.
It is perhaps the same with fig.
26 which represents a form difficult to classify satisfactorily.
On the other hand fig.
27 is an evident early male and both this and fig.
26 are of interest in showing very clearly the nuclear structure.
In a few cases in mouse 261 males were found in which the loot cytoplasm was complete 1 .
MouS '.'7.
 This mouse was killed four hours after feeding.
Itintestine was cut into 34 pieces from int.
1 to 34 and observations were made on int.
12 14 16 19 30 and 33.
The differentiation into males and females is here carried i little further although it is still difficult to get forms that can positively be diagnosed as females.
An evident female however is shown in fig.
28 Plate II.
This is taken to be a female on account of its shape its retention of the cytoplasm and the character of its nucleus.
This latter element as is shown by the figure is vesicular with a sharply defined nuclear membrane and a central mass of chromatin from which strands radiate to the periphery.
Fig.
29 shows another female.
This figure is diagrammatic but is essentially like fig.
28.
Both of these figures were obtained from int.
14 of the mouse that is from the anterior half of the intestine and hence the presumption is that both of the parasites drawn had been in the cells for some considerable time.
Fig.
30 from int.
19 may also be that of a female although here the diagnosis is more doubtful since the form rather suggests a parasite which has been in the cell for only a short time.
In addition to the females characteristic early males were seen in the cells of this mouse.
Mouse 250.
 This mouse was killed five hours after feeding.
Its intestine was cut into 34 pieces numbered from 1 to 34 and observations were made on int.
21 22 and 32.
In this mouse it is much easier to distinguish between the males and females since the two lines of development have become well separated.
Thus figs.
31 and 32 Plate II represent males which have reached what might be termed the nuclear stage that is the stage in which the cytoplasm has nearly or quite disappeared.
Thus in fig.
31 the cytoplasm has all disappeared except for a cap of degeneratelooking material at one end of the nucleus.
The nucleus itself shows the usual net associated with which are several black granules.
Centrally there is an irregular mass of acidophil chromatin in which lies a large black granule.
This probably represents the karyosome.
Fig.
32 also represents a male.
There is here to be seen a welldefined net of rather broad strands and a number of black granules.
The meshes of the net are in some places filled with faintly staining material.
A karyosome does not appear to be present although the large black granule may perhaps represent it.
The crescent of staining substance at one end of the nucleus may represent the remnant of the spore cytoplasm but more probably is a crescent of host tissue which not infrequently forms at the end of the vacuole in which the parasite normally lies.
Its actual detachment from the parasite suggests it is the latter and if this be so the cytoplasm of the parasite lias wholly disappeared and the vacuole in which the nucleus lies is the vacuole originally formed by the parasite.
Fig.
33 Plate II.
represents a parasite from the same slide and same section of the intestine as figs.
31 and32.
It is clearly a female.
The entire parasite is sharply outlined and the cytoplasm is dense although showing several vacuole.
The nucleus is clear cut and contains a large rather faintly staining karyosome together with two black granules.
 me of these granules lies within the karyosome.
the other appears to be in the space between the karyosome and membrane but it is possible that it actually lay upon the membrane itself.
In this particular case strands connecting the karyosome with the nuclear membrane could not be detected.
Fig.
34 was also obtained from the same slide as figs.
31 32 and 33 but not from the same section.
The parasite was clearly outlined.
The cytoplasm while not suggesting degeneration was not homogeneous but appeared to consist of a matrix in which were a number of poorly defined denser areas.
This is an appearance frequently to be noted in the early female stages but it has not been possible to work out its significance.
The nucleus of this parasite was clear cut and contained a large faintly staining karyosome.
Little strands radiated from the karyosome but these could not be traced to the nuclear membrane.
Two black granules were present one within or upon the karyosome the other on the nuclear membrane.
The four parasites here figured and described typify conditions as found in mouse 250.
They appear to furnish satisfactory evidence that the spores after their invasion of the cells separate into two groups the later evolution of which indicates that they are to be regarded as males and females.
This evolution moreover proceeds at such a rate that at the end of five hours at least a considerable number of the parasites can be separated into males and females.
It is also believed that the cases herewith considered are the more convincing in that they were all taken from exactly the same place in the intestine.
This was the twentysecond piece of an intestine cut into 34 pieces and therefore only twothirds the way from the anterior end.
This permits of the presumption that these four parasites had all entered the cells at somewhat the same time and that this was perhaps four hours prior to the death of the mouse.
It is of course to be understood that in the whole intestine up to 6 hours and in its extreme posterior portions up to 9 hours the parasites are in general in all sorts of conditions and that only a portion are differentiated into males and females.
Furthermore it is to be understood that the figures are as is usual in such cases more or less diagrammatic since it is impossible to reproduce the exact appearances as found under the microscope.
Mouse 253.
 This mouse was killed 6 hours after feeding and its intestine cut into 29 pieces numbered from 1 to 29.
Observations were made on int.
15 19 25 27 and 29.
The conditions here are of course very much like those of mouse 250 the cells showing evident males and females along with a number of others which had not evolved far enough to permit of their being determined.
Characteristic females are shown in figs.
35 36 and Plate III 37.
A male is shown in fig.
38 which was taken from int.
16.
This while differing somewhat from figs.
31 and 32 is nevertheless obviously a male since the cytoplasm has wholly disappeared and the parasite consists of nothing more than the enlarged nucleus of the original spore.
Mouse 99.
 This mouse was given two infective feeds separated by an interval of 3 hours and killed 3 hours after the second.
It therefore represents the conditions at both 3 and 6 hours after inoculation and it is usually possible in the case of any given parasite to say to which of the two inoculations it belongs.
Thus fig.
39 is obviously that of a male and no doubt belongs to the 6hour stage.
The Later Stages.
The Male.
 The early stages of the evolution of S. muris have as far as possible been traced step by step as they occurred in mice killed from 1 to 6 hours after inoculation.
At the outset the spores are apparently all alike although it is possible that the dimorphism may be in evidence even for the spores in the cysts as appears to be the case for the spores of Sarcocystis colli Fantham 1913.
But whether this be so or not by the end of 6 hours at least a considerable proportion of the parasites present are clearly separated into two categories.
For the later stages it is more convenient to follow these two lines of development separately instead of considering what is found at the end of increasingly longer periods of time.
For after the first eight or ten hours the time factor ceases to be of value and both 9and 18hour mice for instance may show identical stages of evolution.
The development of the male will first be considered.
As we have already seen in the first few hours the male parasites lose most if not all of their cytoplasm and become reduced to an element which is obviously only the enlarged nucleus of the original spore.
Eventually the chromatin of'these elements collects into a number of small aggregates which arrange themselves around the periphery of the parasite and transform themselves into what are evidently the microgametes.
It may be assumed that the evolution of the male element or niicrogametocyte proceeds in an orderly manner and hence it should be possible to obtain an orderly series from some such stage as that of fig.
31 Plate II to that of fig.
75 Plate V.
It is not however possible to give all of the steps of this evolution.
The parasites are themselves small ranging around 8.
in diameter and in consequence the details of their structure require the highest powers of the microscope.
There is not a great deal of staining material within them and the picture is confused by the fact that they lie embedded within the cells of the mouse in sectioned material.
It is believed that in order to work out this evolution with precision it would be necessary to develop a technique which would permit of obtaining the parasites isolated an end which could be gained either by cultural methods or by devising some means of getting the parasites out of the cells in which they had developed.
The few attempts which have been'made along these lines have as yet not met with any success.
It is therefore to be understood that the details of the evolution of the niicrogametocyte as here set forth are presented with some reserve.
Taking up now this development of the male from the stage found in the 5and 6hour mice to that found at the end of 18 hours the earlier phases of it are illustrated by figs.
40 to 53 Plate III.
As it happens most of these are from mice 106 and 120 both of which gave especially favorable material.
What is seen here however is confirmed by the findings in other mice of the same periods.
Evidently what is found in the 2to 6hour mice will represent conditions earlier than those found in mice killed 9 hours or more after feeding and in these former the nuclear net is coarse and has a low affinity for chromatin stains see figures of these stages.
It is a matter of common knowledge that the chemical nature of chromatin varies with the physiological condition of the nucleus and that this is manifested by a varying staining reaction.
Thus in the socalled resting nuclei the chromatin has a relatively low percentage of nucleic acid and this is indicated by a relatively low affinity for chromatin stains.
On the other hand as the nucleus prepares to divide the percentage of nucleic acid increases and as this takes place the chromatin displays a greater and greater affinity for chromatin stains.
The percentage of nucleic acid is greatest at the time when the chromatin is divided into chromosomes and this is also the time when it stains most intensely.
In the case of Protozoa the resting or better the trophic nucleus takes the plasma rather than the chromatin stains a fact which may be ascribed to an extremely low content in nucleic acid at such times rather than to a fundamental difference between the chemistry of protozoan and metazoan nuclei.
But when in division the protozoan nucleus stains as does that of the Metazoa and this same staining reaction is also displayed by certain of the products of this division such as microgametes.
It is therefore permissible to suppose that in these early male forms of Sarcocystis muris the coarseness of the threads of the nuclear net is due to the fact that the achromatic filaments are bearing a quantity of chromatin poor in nucleic acid.
Besides being distributed along the achromatic filaments and upon the inner surface of the nuclear membrane the chromatin may also occur in lumps in masses which fill up the meshes of the net and there is apparently normally present a larger mass or karyosome.
In the course of several hours however this type of nucleus transforms itself into a body such as is shown in figs.
66 and 67 Plate IV .
This is an oval element containing some achromatic stringy substance and showing around the periphery a series of granular clusters.
The granules composing these clusters are extremely minute but intensely chromophil staining as do the chromosomes of a dividing metazoan cell.
In spite of their minute size they are readily resolved.
We thus start with a nucleus having a considerable bulk of chromatin which has a low affinity for chromatin stains.
Morphologically this chromatin occurs as granules irregular masses and bands borne either by the nuclear net or upon the inner surface of the nuclear membrane.
There is also usually present a central mass or karyosome.
After several hours however the chromatin has diminished in bulk has an intense affinity for chromatin stains and is placed around the periphery in the form of clusters of minute granules.
The conspicuous changes then consist in the taking on of a high affinity for basic stains subdivision into minute granules and migration to the periphery.
The desire is to show the several steps in this transformation.
The earlier conditions are shown by figs.
31 32 38 and 39.
Figs.
31 and 32 are from mouse 250 a 5hour stage fig.
38 from mouse 253 6 hours and fig.
39 from mouse 99 and presumably represents the 6hour stage.
These four figures show very distinctly the variations with regard to what is interpreted to be the karyosome.
In fig.
32 it is either absent or represented by the large black granule.
In fig.
31 the irregular central mass provided with a Mack grannie presumably represents this element.
In fig.
38 it is a large irregular body while in fig.
39 it is a large oval deeply staining granule splil nearly into two by a cleft.
To some extent these differences are due to the technique employed but in the main they represent actual differences in the morphology of the parasite itself.
Passing now to mouse 106 a 9hour stage which yielded highly fav rable material we have figs.
40and41 Plate III.
Fig.
41 is very much like fig.
39 except for the staining reaction of the karyosome.
Fig.
40 bears a general resemblance to figs.
31 32 and 38.
It is therefore apparent that figs.
40 and 41 represent the earlier of the stages present in mouse 106 and hence the starting point from which a number of these have arisen.
For the parasites in a 9hour mouse may have been in the cells anywhere from a very short time up to perhaps 8 hours.
Hence in passing from mouse 99 250 or 253 to mouse 106 it is not necessary and would indeed be a mistake to assume that we had also passed over 3 or 4 hours of time spent in development.
The period elapsing between the inoculation and death of the mouse at least as far as concerns the periods up to 9 or 10 hours is of value only as a high limit.
A parasite of mouse 253 cannot be more than 6 hours old one of mouse 106 cannot be more than 9 hours and this is all that can be stated with absolute certainty.
Nevertheless the parasites of mouse 106 will in general be older than those of mouse 253 even though they will in a number of cases represent the same stages of development.
It is therefore permissible to use parasites such as are shown in figs.
31 32 38 and 39 as well as figs.
40 and 41 in tracing the later stages as found in mouse 106.
It is easy to pick out conditions readily derivable from these.
Thus fig.
42 upper cell is a good deal like fig.
41.
Fig.
43 is also very much like fig.
41 except for the strip of basophil chromatin which runs across the nucleus.
Fig.
44 also displays a general resemblance to the earlier stages but has developed a greater quantity of basophil chromatin present in the form of scattered granules.
A similar state of affairs is seen in fig.
45 in which the somewhat quadrangular mass of acidophil chromatin situated in the centre may represent the karyosome.
In figs.
46 and 47 we have parasites in which the chromatin is all basophil and occurs in a rather finely divided state.
In the case of the two parasites shown in fig.
42. while they are not wholly unlike morphologically the chromatin of the one is acidophil of the other basophil and the fact that they lie side by side seems to preclude ascribing this difference to irregular action of the stain.
It is to be observed that all of the changes noted above point toward the production of finely divided and highly basophil chromatin.
As pointed out above in the early stages a karyosome may or may not be present.
When it is present its evolution appears to take place as follows In figs.
31 38 40 44 and 48 the karyosome is composed of acidophil chromatin associated with which are one or more basophil granules.
A karyosome of the type shown in figs.
40 and 48 consisting of a rounded acidophil mass bearing several sharply basophil granules was quite common.
In fig.
47 there is a ring of basophil granules and figs.
46 and 49 show somewhat similar phenomena.
We seem here to be dealing with the conversion of the karyosome from an acidophil mass into a group of basophil granules.
Resuming the account of the evolution of the entire parasite fig.
53 from mouse 120 shows two parasites lying side by side.
In the upper one the central body appears to represent the karyosome here partly basophil and partly acidophil.
In addition to this the organism contains some acidophil material of irregular form together with a number of basophil granules some of which are placed at the periphery.
The lower parasite shows a central basophil mass and a number of basophil granules extending out from it.
These parasites from int.
8 of mouse 120 should represent later rather than earlier conditions and they can be derived from what is shown in figs.
45 47 and 48.
The lower of the two also is very much like fig.
49.
It is always to be kept in mind that we are endeavoring to trace the development of a structure showing a typical nuclear net and displaying both acidophil and basophil chromatin throughout its entire extent to one in which all the chromatin present is intensely basophil and occurs as clusters of minute granules around the periphery of the parasite.
Biological processes never proceed with mathematical precision and hence we cannot look to find these three processes taking place side by side.
But it is entirely reasonable to assume that if we compare any two parasites and find one of them more advanced with reference to one or more of these three conditions that it represents the later stage.
Thus the lower parasite of fig.
42 is older than the upper and the same thing may be said of fig.
53.
Figs.
46 47. and 49 represent later stages than figs.
40 44 and 45.
On the other hand in figs.
44 and 48 while the chromatin is in part in the form of small basophil granules the balance of it is acidophil.
Hence it would not be possible to say whether these represent older or younger stages than the lower parasite of fig.
42 Again as between figs.
49 and 53 upper parasite the chromatin of the former is all basophil while that of the latter is showing a greater disposition to assemble at the periphery.
The cases last given illustrate the irregularity with which the evolution proceeds.
Fig.
54 Plate IV is from mouse 120.
It shows a parasite with an irregular central mass from which prolongations run toward the periphery.
The staining reaction is partly basophil and partly acidophil .
The basophil substance is partly in the form of granules and partly occurs as streaks and bands but it is not improbable that these latter are composed of closely compacted granules as is evidently the case for instance in the large aggregation of fig.
49.
The central mass as shown in fig.
54 could have been derived from a karyosome of the type shown in fig.
44.
Finally in addition to the central mass shown here fig.
54 there are four more or less welldefined clusters of chromatin granules in two of which the granules are very minute.
The conditions shown in fig.
54 appear to be followed by those shown in figs.. 55 and 56.
In these latter there is a central mass sending out prolongations toward the periphery but the chromatin is more completely basophil and more completely separated into granules.
There is also the same tendency at least in fig.
55 for the granules to be disposed in clusters.
In these two parasites figs.
55 and 56 there is very little achromatic material remaining and this is in part only the fragments of the linin network.
The parasite shown in fig.
57 appears also to belong to this stage of the evolution.
The development is carried further in the organisms shown in figs.
58 and59.
In these the arrangement of the chromatin granules into aggregates is more obvious.
A comparison of figs.
54 and 55 with fig.
59 suggests that at least in some cases the modus operandi is for the chromatin to assume the form of a very irregular dendritic mass which later breaks up into smaller masses.
Thus in fig.
59 six of these small masses have already become individualized and one more seems about to become free.
In fig.
58 although the granules are very small only three such masses have become independent.
The parasites shown in figs.
63 and 64 may belong in the above cycle.
Although the central mass of fig.
64 is larger than that of fig.
54 its arrangement is not wholly different.
Fig.
63 however cannot very well be placed.
Figs.
60 and 61 from mouse 179 give slightly later stages than figs.
58 and 59.
At least the central dendritic mass has disappeared and the chromatin is distributed throughout the entire nucleus either in clusters or as separate granules.
Furthermore there is a marked disposition for the clusters to assume a peripheral position especially well marked in fig.
61.
The smaller size of the granular clusters in figs.
60 and 61 than in figs.
58 and 59 suggests that in these last the clusters are destined to subdivide before reaching a peripheral position a suggestion supported by what is seen in figs.
62 65 66 and 67.
In figs.
60 and 61 all of the chromatin which could be seen by raising and lowering the focus was drawn and hence some of the chromatin apparently central was actually peripheral.
In fig.
62 only an optical section of the parasite is drawn.
Here evolution has reached the stage where all of the chromatin is in the form of minute granules assembled in clusters that lie around the periphery.
It is to be noted however that they are irregularly placed.
The next stage is shown in fig.
66 where the clusters have come to lie in regular order around the periphery.
Fig.
65 no doubt represents the same stage but apparently shows only a part of the organism.
In fig.
67 the clusters which are the future microgametes or their nuclei have begun to solidify.
The further steps in this process are shown in figs.
68 69 and 70 the last showing that the nuclei finally become rounded solid balls of highly basophil chromatin.
Fig.
71 shows a condition intermediate between figs.
69 and 70.
Fig.
52 Plate III shows a parasite in which the chromatin is present in the form of solid balls more or less strung together.
The form and solidity of the chromatin masses suggest the later stages such as are pictured in figs.
70 and 71 whereas their arrangement as well as the elongated oval form of the parasite recalls earlier conditions.
At times however the parasite reaches the end of its development while still retaining this oval form fig.
74 Plate V.
The final stages of the evolution of the microgametocyte are given in figs.
72 to 76 Plate V.
In fig.
72 the solid rounded elements are seen to be elongating and this elongation is carried further in the case of fig.
73.
Figs.
74 to 76 portray the microgametes.
They always lie on the periphery and fig.
76 gives the aspect as viewed in optical section whereas in the other two figures more than an optical section is shown.
Figs.
75 and 7ti are the more typical in fig.
71 the parasite is unusually small for this stage but is characteristic in showing very clearly the arrangement of the microgametes around the periphery.
The fully evolved male element or microgametocyte is a rounded or oval body showing a stringy or amorphous residual mass and a tries of microgametes disposed around the periphery.
These latter are bodies about 2 to 2.5 microns long broader at one end than the other and apparently composed wholly of intensely basophil chromatin.
This is at least their appearance in sectioned material it is not impossible that in life or in material otherwise prepared they may show more than is here evident.
Analogy would lead us to suspect the existence of flagella.
This stage is apparently of short duration.
Mouse 152 killed 18 hours after feeding was heavily parasitized but the exact stage shown in fig.
75 was comparatively scarce.
This however is much as might be expected.
The presumption is that the microgametes are motile elements and once they 'are fully ripe they doubtless quickly abandon the situation in which they evolved and without them the residuum would scarcely be recognizable.
In number they varj following the counts made from 13 to 17.
Allowing both for an actualvariation and for the practical difficulties in making an accurate determination the supposition is plausible that the typical number is sixteen.
It is a familiar biological phenomenon that in those cases where the number of elements ultimately produced is some power of two we are dealing with the results of the repeated division of some one original element.
In this case however the end appears to lie attained in a less regular manner.
In the description of the later stages of the e r olution of the male element reference was confined to the conditions as found in mice 106 120 152 and 179 respectively 9 10 and 17 18 and 16 hour.
The first three of these gave particularly favorable material all of them being heavily parasitized and none showing much destruction of the cells.
The conditions seen here however were duplicated in other mice.
Thus Nos.
113 132 and 133 all either Shor 9hour periods showed many of the same stages as were seen in mouse 106 while the later stages in the evolution of the microgametes were seen in mice 121 175 177 178 180 and 182 representing periods ranging from 10 to 18 hours.
The Female.
 It has already been shown that the female in the 5and 6hour mice is an oval cell with rather compact cytoplasm and a vesicular nucleus with a large central body the karyosome.
It is illustrated in figs.
33 to 37.
The nuclear structure is comparatively simple and is portrayed well enough by the figures.
The nuclear membrane is usually clear cut and there is always present a large karyosome which takes the acid rather than the basic stain.
The karyosome frequently has associated with it one or more sharply basophil granules and may or may not show strands extending out toward the nuclear membrane.
It is difficult however to show the cytoplasm as it actually occurs and in the main this has been done in the figures in a purely conventional maimer.
Its fundamental structure appears to be alveolar with the alveoles quite small and frequently tending to be variable in size.
The picture however is greatly confused by the fact that in general both spongioplasm and hyaloplasm stain with much the same degree of intensity and both have a rather high affinity for plasma stains.
Figs.
35 77 78 and 81 are attempts to show the conditions as they actually occur.
In fig.
35 Plate II the alveolar structure is evident although somewhat obscured while it is seen much more clearly in fig.
81 Plate V .
Parasites in which the alveolar  structure was as obvious as in fig.
81 could be found but they were rare.
Figs.
34 77 and 78 show the cytoplasm to consist of an aggregation of poorly defined rounded bodies lying in a paler matrix.
This was a frequent appearance.
The black granules seen in some of the figures represent the black granules usually to be seen in material stained with iron hematoxylin.
Frequently' also the cytoplasm is vacuolated.
The general appearance here described does not undergo any great change.
Thus figs.
28 mouse 247 and 79 mouse 113 respectively 4and 9hour stages are much alike as are figs.
77 and 78 respectively from 6and 9hour mice.
There is however one phenomenon presented which appears to he of interest.
One phase of this is shown in figs.
81 and 82.
In each of these the nucleus presents somewhat the appearance of a wheel.
There is in each case a central acidophil karyosome which si mis out strands to the periphery.
Around the periphery are a number of basophil granules.
This condition was not at all infrequent and appeared to be especially characteristic of the intermediate periods of 9 or 10 hours.
It was however seen in mouse 77 a 15hour stage.
We also have the condition illustrated in fig.
83 where there is some basophil material outside of the nucleus.
The appearances suggest maturation a suggestion which is strengthened by what is seen in figs.
84 to 87.
In these the nucleus is the typical vesicle with its central karyosome while the cytoplasm is more or less liberally provided with sharply staining granules.
It seems permissible to suppose that we are here dealing with later stages in which the rejected chromatin has passed out into the cytoplasm.
Here it is apparently absorbed since the fully mature macrogamete shows no indications of it.
This phase of the life history of S. muris is protrayed by figs.
88 to 91 from mice 120 145 and 152.
The second of these was killed 11  hours after inoculation and hence the macrogamete may reach the end of its development within this period of time.
Fertilization.
The earlier stages of the parasite are passed while within a cylinder cell of the intestinal epithelium in its proper place in the epithelial row.
The parasite however has a deleterious influence on the cell it invades and apparently always destroys it in the end.
It would then necessarily follow that the remnant of the cell with its contained parasite would by pressure be thrust out of its place in the epithelial row.
In so far as the mechanics of the process are concerned there does not seem to be any choice as to whether the dead cell would be pushed out into the lumen or beneath the row into the subepithelial tissue.
It looks as though one contingency would be as likely to occur as the other.
Nevertheless as early as 9 hours but more particularly later a considerable number of the parasites are to be found beneath the epithelium.
This is more particularly the case with the macrogametes which is further in accord with the probabilities.
For the macrogametocyte is a rather compact solidlooking element and presumably will retain its integrity even though subjected to mechanical stress.
On the contrary the microgametocyte the bulk of which is obviously merely decadent residual matter would presumably readily yield and break tip if acted upon by pressure.
Here and there in the epithelium a ripe male cell occurs in which the microgametes appear to be streaming out into the subepithelial tissue.
Conditions such as these may of course be interpreted in two ways the microgametes may have reached their places beneath the epithelium either actively or passively.
An examination of fixed material clearly sheds no light on such a question but analfavors the view that such a movement is the result of an actual motility of the microgametes themselves.
It may also be that in life the macrogametes are amoeboid and gain their subepithelial situation through their own motility but here the probabilities are the other way.
Analogy is not in favor of a belief that the macrogamete is motile nor do the macrogametes ever show amoeboid outlines in the fixed material.
As to the actual situation of the parasites which occur beneath the epithelium the fixed material does not give wholly conclusive evidence.
They appear however to occur rather between the row of cells and the stroma than in the stroma itself.
We thus have obvious male elements and obvious female elements occurring beneath the row of epithelium cells.
The production of male and female cells necessarily involves their union and the environment in which they both occur offers no obstacle to such a procedure.
It is evident that the proper demonstration of such a process should be made upon living material since in a situation such as has been indicated the identification of a minute fragment of highly basophil matter as a microgamete is largely a matter of guesswork.
It is easy enough to identify the threadlike bodies of figs.
75 or 76 as microgametes since here their relationships with their surroundings can be established.
But it is clear that an isolated microgamete cannot be identified when it occurs in a region presenting such a confused picture as does the subepithelial tissue of the mammalian intestine.
Nevertheless when the macrogametes as they occurred in the subepithelial tissues of mouse 152 were studied it was possible to separate them into two categories.
A certain number were as figs.
88 to 91.
Others were as fig.
93.
These differ only that in the latter there was present in the cytoplasm a sharply basophil body.
Also conditions such as are illustrated in fig.
92 were found where two elongated sharply basophil bodies are seen either lying upon or partly within the cytoplasm of a macrogamete.
In consideration of the fact that it is axiomatic that the development of males and females involves fertilization the indirect evidence here offered as 1o the actuality of the process seems satisfactory.
Fig.
92 shows two supposed microgametes associated with the macrogamete but it is safe to conclude that only one would have been successful in effecting union.
The three cells shown in fig.
93 have somewhat irregular outlines this being the condition as found.
Assuming that this is not an artifact it indicates that they arc in no sense encysted but are rather naked masses of cytoplasm.
This irregularity of outline however is not necessarily associated with the supposed fertilization since many of the macrogametes which showed the conspicuous chromatin body had maintained their smooth and regularly curved contours.
Discussion.
If the evolution of the macroand microgametocytes of S. muris as outlined above be compared with that of Coccidium schubergi as worked out by Schaudinn 1900 it will be seen that there is a very close resemblance.
Thus in both the chromatin of the microgametocyte becomes divided into very small particles which collect in masses at the periphery and there condense to form the microgametes.
This mode of division is designated by Minchin 1912 as chromidial fragmentation the minute granules themselves being the familiar chromidia.
Similarly in both the sarcosporidian and the coccidian the nucleus of the macrogametocyte discharges chromatic granules into the cytoplasm where they are apparently absorbed.
On the other hand there are many marked differences.
In the first place in S. muris the male cell loses most if not all of its cytoplasm the formation of the microgametes taking place in what is morphologically the nucleus.
Hence there is not only no increase in size of the parasite after it gains an entrance into a host cell but actually a loss of substance.
It is somewhat the same with the female cell which while it gains in bulk does so to a rather limited extent.
This is in marked contrast to the phenomena displayed by Coccidium schubergi in which the macroand microgametocytes are many times bulkier than the merozoites from which they took origin.
The sarcosporidian runs through its sexual development within from 9 to 18 hours while judging from the data given by Schaudinn p. 217 the coccidian requires about two days.
The resemblances and differences between these two parasitic Protozoa are here merely pointed out.
The resemblances are certainly very striking but it seems premature to assign any significance to them.
It is conceivable that they indicate a genetic relationship between the Sarcosporidia and Coccidia but it is just as likely that we are dealing with phenomena broader than those suitable for connecting groups of the value of the Coccidia and Sarcosporidia.
The problem is one that requires more evidence before any farreaching conclusions are warranted.
3 Some of the features presented by the evolution of S. muris however when considered wholly by themselves are worthy of attention.
One of the most striking of these is the loss of cytoplasm displayed by the microgametocyte.
So far as I am aware no other protozoan displays a mode of development at all like this.
Yet it is perhaps not so different from the usual procedure as it may at first seem.
In all cases of the evolution of microgametes in Sporozoa the cytoplasm is largely or wholly inert.
Thus in the case used for comparison that of Coccidium schubergi the nuclear membrane dissolves and the chromidia collect in the cytoplasm where they eventually produce the microgametes.
But there is nothing to show that the cytoplasm takes any active part in this development.
It may function merely as a mechanical support for the microgametes.
Furthermore at the end of development the microgametes abandon the cytoplasmic mass which is merely left behind.
This indeed is generally true.
Throughout the entire group of the Sporozoa the fully developed microgametocyte consists of a number of microgametes associated with a residuum that represents unused cytoplasm.
This residuum is always abandoned and so far as it is possible to see it is always about equal in bulk to that of the original cytoplasmic mass.
It may therefore be suggested that in the case of S. muris the discarding of the cytoplasm merely takes place before the microgametes are developed instead of afterward.
The next peculiarity is the fact that there is either only a slight gain of substance as in the females or an actual loss as in the males.
This is probably correlated with the speed with which the development is effected.
In general parasitic Protozoa that live in cells enter these cells as very minute bodies which increase in size for a longer or shorter period growing at the expense of the cell and it is only after they have reached a certain size that they divide.
That is the host cells are the dwelling places of these parasites.
But in the case of S.
muris in the intestinal epithelium of the mouse the host cell appears to be used merely as a temporary lodging place.
The parasites although they appear usually to destroy the cells they invade do not seem to feed upon them.
No sooner do they come to rest than they proceed forthwith to evolve into the mature sexual stages which are produced within 18 hours or less.
It is apparent that the socalled spore possesses enough energy at the outset to carry on this development and it seems much more plausible to look upon the granules which the spores contain as reserve food than as the socalled sarcocystin.
My studies do not extend beyond the formation of the zygote.
In mice killed one to two days after feeding oval cells resembling the zygotes hut larger are quite frequent.
These are most abundant in the villi beneath the epithelial row but they also occur in the cells and occasionally free in the lumen.
Their ultimate fate has not been followed but Erdmann 1914 describes what seems to be schizogony in the cells and subepithelial tissues of mice killed several days after feeding and it is not at all unlikely that the oval bodies mentioned above are schizonts.
One fact stands out clearly the bananashaped body of the Sarcosporidia is not a spore 1 .
There was never any reason to suppose that it was even though this misleading designation has been used exclusively in the literature during recent years.
Labbe 1899 designated it as a sporozoite which in view of its form is far more plausible and may indeed be a correct designation so far as it is allowable to apply terms based on the conditions in the Telosporidia to stages of Sarcosporidia.
For if the oval bodies occurring in oneand twoday mice give rise to the schizonts described by Erdmann and if the products of this schizogony give origin to the familiar muscle cysts then apparently the bananashaped body is in some respects at least the analogue of the coccidian sporozoite.
As against this interpretation is the fact that in  Joccidia where there is both schizogony and sporogony the sporonts are derived from merozoites.
This would suggest that the bananashaped sarcosporidian element is a merozoite.
Obviously however the evidence at hand is not sufficient to warrant a conclusion.
Accordingly it has been considered best to follow recent custom and to retain the term spore despite the fact that it is incorrect for it is believed that this procedure is less confusing than to adopt a different designation which future discovery might show to be equally incorrect.
Summary.
1 The spores of Sarcocystis muris ingested by a mouse may reach the posterior part of the small intestine within one hour.
2 Invasion of the epithelium cells of the intestine may also take place within the same time.
3 Upon reaching the lumen of the intestine the spore rapidly undergoes changes.
The nucleus becomes larger and more conspicuous and a distinct nuclear net becomes evident.
The granules characteristic of the spore as it occurs in the cyst either disappear or become much less evident.
Further changes however do not take place unless the spore gains an intracellular situation.
4 The spores are sexually differentiated but it does not appear to be possible at the outset to distinguish between the males and females.
5 Within the mouse cells the changes undergone by the males or microgametocytes begin to be evident at the end of H to 2 hours.
6 These changes are first a further increase in the size of the nucleus accompanied by a further development of the nuclear net and second degeneration and ultimate disappearance of the cytoplasm.
The cell contours become rough and irregular vacuolization occurs the cytoplasm becomes reduced to two masses of debris lying at the ends of the nucleus.
These finally disappear the entire process usually being completed at the end of 6 hours.
The microgametocyte is thus reduced to its original nucleus which however is of approximately the same size as the original spore.
7 Conspicuous internal changes next take place which modify both the morphology and chemistry of the parasite.
They may be considered under three headings but they all take place more or less simultaneously.
a The chromatin appears to suffer a loss in actual bulk but alters in staining reaction from acidophil to basophil.
b From occurring in large irregular masses or distributed along the threads of the linin net in strips or bands the chromatin is reduced to granules which become progressively smaller and smaller and at the same time display a greater and greater affinity for chromatin stains.
c These granules finally assemble in clusters around the periphery of the organism.
8 The next step is the solidification of these granular clusters into rounded solid balls.
These balls next elongate and become minute threadlike bodies which are the microgametes.
This stage may be found in mice killed from 9 to 18 hours after inoculation.
It is very rare in the shorter of these two periods but has apparently passed its acme at the end of 18 hours.
9 The females go through with their development side bj r side with the males but there are no such conspicuous changes and the early female stages are much like the spore which has just entered the cell.
10 In the course of a few hours however the females can be picked out appearing as broadly oval cells relatively shorter and broader than the original spores.
The cytoplasm is all retained and assumes a rather dense alveolar texture.
The nucleus shows no evidenl increase in size.
The unclear net does not develop as it does in the male parasite luii the chromatin concentrates into a single large karyosome which maintains an acidophil rather than a basophil staining reaction.
11 In the 6to 15hour periods phenomena are seen which seem besl interpreted by regarding them as maturation.
Irregular chromatin granules appear in close association with the nuclear membrane.
Later these granules pass out into the cytoplasm and finally disappear.
12 The mature female or macrogamete may be found in mice killed from 11 to 18 hours after inoculation.
13 Finally in the 18hour stages macrogametes may be found which in some cases show minute threadlike bodies upon their surfaces and in others contain within their substances small solid chromatic bodies one in each case.
These appearances are regarded as warranting the interpretation that fertilization takes place.
Explanation of Plates I II III IV V. The original figures wore made by the author and later copied in ink by Mr. Haines artist of the Bureau of Animal Industry.
The greater number are from camera outlines made on the table with a 2 mm.
apoehromatic objective and Xo.
18 eyepiece.
This method yields a magnification of about 3530 diameters.
The remaining drawings are freehand sketches of approximately the same enlargement.
In reproduction the drawings have been reduced in the ratio of 3 to 2 and hence are about 2350 times larger than the objects themselves.
In order to show the relationships between the parasites and the cells the latter have in some cases been drawn in outline.
It was not however considered necessary to do this throughout.
Plate I.
 Fig.
1.
 Camera outline.
Giemsa stain.
Spores taken directly from a cyst.
The cytoplasm stains a dense blue the nucleus is a reddish vesicle with little or no internal structure.
The spores are broader at one end than the other.
Fig.
2.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Spore free in lumen.
Cell outlines clear cut a periplast present cytoplasm shows no signs of degeneracy.
The nucleus shows a nuclear net and is somewhat enlarged causing the cell edges to bulge.
Fig.
3.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 251 1 hours int.
9.
Cytoplasm slightly degenerate but staining deeply.
Nucleus enlarged about to cause bulging of the sides of the cell and showing a central mass joined to the nuclear membrane with strands.
Fig.
4.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 251 1J hours int.
9.
Cytoplasm dense and staining deeply.
Nucleus enlarged with the central mass separated into granules.
Fig.
5.
 Camera outline.
Delafield.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
27.
Cytoplasm dense with occasional clear spaces.
Nucleus not enlarged.
Chromatin in the form of small granules distributed throughout the net.
Fig.
6.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Cytoplasm very solid staining deeply with the thionin and showing no signs of degeneracy.
Nucleus is a vacuole which stains more or less homogeneously apparently due to the fact that the nuclear sap has stained as well as the nuclear net and thus the latter is obscured.
This is a frequent appearance especially in parasites free in the lumen.
Fig.
7. Camera outline.
Delafield.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
15.
Typical early male form.
Nucleus greatly enlarged cytoplasm reduced to two separate masses one at each end of the parasite.
Nuclear net distinct.
Fig.
8.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Early male stage.
Cytoplasm beginning to show irregular outlines and to become vacuolated.
Nucleus not greatly enlarged but otherwise typical.
Fig.
9.
 Camera out line.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Early male stage.
Shows very clearly the degeneration of the cytoplasm evidenced by the rough outlines and vacuolization.
Nucleus enlarged with a distinct nuclear net.
Fig.
10. Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Early male stage.
Cytoplasm degenerate.
Nucleus elongated transversely a frequent appearance in the early stages.
Nuclear net showing a single large central mass in which is a vacuity.
Fig.
11.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Early stage of male.
Cytoplasm reduced in amount and degenerate in appearance.
Nucleus greatly enlarged with a central aggregation differentiated into an acidophil mass beset with basophil granules.
Fig.
12.
 Freehand drawing.
Thionin and eosin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Early male.
Shows a method of degeneration of the cytoplasm frequently observed.
The cytoplasm consists of a number of basophil masses lying in a faintly staining matrix.
The nucleus was typical.
Fig.
13.
 Freehand drawing.
Thionin and eosin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Early male stage.
Shows mode of degeneration of cytoplasm which at one end of the parasite is broken up into a mass of basophil lumps apparently lying free in the host tissue.
The nucleus was typical.
Fig.
14.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and eosin.
Mouse 248 2 hours int.
30.
Early male stage probably slightly earlier than the form shown in fig.
13.
The cytoplasm has separated into a number of denser masses taking the thionin which lie in an almost achromatic ground substance.
The nucleus is typical.
Fig.
15.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain.
Mouse 125 2 to 2 hours.
Early male stage showing nuclear enlargement.
Fig.
16.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 125 2 to 2 hours.
Early male stage.
Plate II.
 Fig.
17.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 125 2 to 2 hours.
Early male stage.
Cytoplasm greatly reduced and degenerate.
Nucleus much enlarged with a very distinct nuclear net.
Fig.
18.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 249 3 hours int.
22.
Two early males both lying in the same vacuole.
In both the nuclei are enlarged and although the cytoplasm is reduced it still retains its smooth outlines and is not vacuolated.
Nuclei typical.
Fig.
19.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 249 3 hours int.
22.
Male.
Cytoplasm reduced to a small cap at either end of the parasite.
Nucleus greatly enlarged and showing the usual structure.
P'ig.
20.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 249 3 hours int.
30.
Early male stage.
Cytoplasm somewhat reduced in quantity and showing signs of degeneration.
Nucleus shows a net of the usual character and is provided with one large conspicuous granule.
This kind of granule appears to require iron hsematoxylin for its demonstration.
The parasite lies in a partly emptied mucous cell.
Fig.
21.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 249 3 hours int.
30.
Possibly an early female stage.
Cytoplasm dense nucleus clear cut with a central mass and three black granules on periphery.
Fig.
22.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 249 3 hours int.
22.
Probably an early female stage.
Cytoplasm sharply delimited and dense.
Nucleus enlarged but not sufficiently so as to cause bulging of the cell boundaries.
Within the nucleus is a round red body from which blue rays extend to the nuclear membrane.
Fig.
23.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain.
Mouse L26 3 to ' hours.
Early male form.
The cytoplasm has nearly disappeared.
The nucleus is typical.
Fig.
24.
 Camera outline.
Mouse L26 3 to 3 hours.
Early male stage.
Cytoplasm greatly reduced.
Nucleus very large with a welldeveloped nuclear iii I  Fig.
2.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin.
Mouse 261 I hours int.
''.
Early stage of doubtful sex.
Cytoplasm sharply delimited and dense.
Nuclear net obscured.
A large black granule present.
Fig.
26.
Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin .
Mouse 2fd  4 hours int.
3.
Parasite lies in what seems to be a mucous cell.
Cytoplasm dense and nearly homogeneous.
Nucleus clear cut showing a sharply marked karyosome and two conspicuous black granules.
This parasite might be either a male or a female.
Fig.
27.
 Camera outline.
Thionin.
Mouse 261 4 hours int.
3.
Early male stage.
Consists of an enlarged nucleus surrounded by a narrow strip of cytoplasm with a quantity of degenerate material lying on one side.
The parasite is probably cut obliquely.
The nuclear net is well developed.
Fig.
28.
 Freehand drawing.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 247 4 hours int.
14.
Early female stage.
Cell outlines smooth and cytoplasm apparently not degenerate.
Nucleus rather small with a clearcut membrane and a central karyosome.
Fig.
29.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 247 4 hours int.
14.
Early female stage.
Cell boundaries sharp.
The cytoplasm is neither degenerate nor has it suffered any loss in quantity.
The nucleus does not cause any protrusion of the sides of the cell.
A large distinct karyosome is present.
Figure diagrammatic.
Fig.
30.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 247 4 hours int.
19.
Form difficult to classify.
The cytoplasm shows a distinct external boundary and while vacuolated is apparently not degenerate.
Nucleus is a vesicle with a very large central mass.
Fig.
31.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 250 5 hours int.
22.
Male.
Cytoplasm has disappeared except for a crescentic mass at one end.
The nucleus is greatly enlarged and shows a welldeveloped net.
The net itself is acidophil the granules associated with it are basophil.
Fig.
32.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 250 5 hours int.
22.
Male.
Cytoplasm has apparently wholly disappeared.
The nucleus is very large and shows an acidophil net beset with a number of sharply basophil granules.
Fig.
33.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 250 5 hours int.
22.
Female.
Cytoplasm dense and while vacuolated shows no signs of degeneration.
Nucleus a vesicle with a large karyosome and two intensely black granules.
Strands joining the karyosome with the nuclear membrane could not be made out.
Fig.
34.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 250 4 hours int.
22.
Female.
Cytoplasm shows no signs of degeneracy.
It consists of a lighter ground substance in which are a number of poorly defined darker bodies.
Nucleus a vesicle in which is a large karyosome.
Little strands extend out from the karyosome but they could not be traced the whole distance to the nuclear membrane.
Two black granules present.
Fig.
35.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 253 6 hours int.
19.
Female.
In this figure an attempt is made to indicate the alveolar character of the cytoplasm of the females.
Nucleus a vesicle containing a large karyosome.
Fig.
36.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 253 6 hours int.
19.
Female.
Cytoplasm rather dense but liberally vacuolated.
Nucleus a vesicle with a large karyosome.
Plate III.
 Fig.
37.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 253 6 hours int.
19.
The figure shows two females which have invaded the same cell and developed side by side.
1 See the annotation with regard to mouse 261 on p. 19.
Fig.
38.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 253 6 hours int.
16.
Male.
Parasite reduced to its nucleus which shows the nuclear net and a large central mass of chromatin.
Fig.
39.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 99 3 and 6 hours.
Male.
The parasite reduced to the nucleus shows a welldeveloped nuclear net and a basophil karyosome nearly cut into two by a cleft.
Fig.
40.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
Parasite reduced to its nucleus which shows the typical net and a large central aggregation in which are five basophil granules.
Fig.
41.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and eosin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Typical male parasite.
Fig.
42.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
The figure shows two male parasites lying in adjacent cells of the mouse and it is instructive in that a marked contrast in staining reaction is to be seen the upper cell being acidophil the lower basophil.
Fig.
43.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 99 3 and 6 hours.
Male doubtless belonging to the 6hour period.
The nuclear net is in the main acidophil but a portion of it has taken on a sharply basophil staining reaction.
Fig.
44.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
Shows a typical nuclear net a large acidophil karyosome and a number of basophil granules.
Fig.
45.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The nuclear material is partly acidophil partly basophil.
Fig.
46. Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The chromatin is basophil and finely divided.
Fig.
47.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The chromatin is basophil and occurs as minute granules except for the cluster of larger granules which is presumably derived from the karyosome.
Fig.
48.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The chromatin is partly acidophil partly basophil.
Fig.
49.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
The chromatin is basophil and in a state of fine subdivision except for the central mass which is probably derived from the karyosome.
Fig.
50.
 Camera outline.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The parasite shows a delicate net provided here and there with basophil granules.
Fig.
51.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The parasite shows a delicate net provided with minute chromatin granules.
Fig.
52.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 IO5 and 17 hours.
Male.
The chromatin is extremely basophil and the bulk of it is concentrated into round balls.
It is impossible to say to which of the two infective feeds this parasite belongs.
Fig.
53.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 10J and 17 hours.
Shows two male parasites lying side by side.
Instructive on account of the marked difference in staining reaction.
Plate IV.
 Fig.
54.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 10 and 17 hours.
Male.
The central aggregation consists of sharply basophil substance between which is acidophil material.
In the former rounded granules can be distinguished.
This central mass is throwing out extensions into the balance of the nucleus where there are aggregates composed partly of sharply black granules and partly of acidophil material.
Fig.
55.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 IO5 and 17 hours.
Male.
The chromatin is black in the iron hematoxylin and occurs as minute granules.
The general mass is showing a tendency both to form small clusters and to assemble upon the periphery.
Fig.
56. Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 lo' and 17 liours.
Male.
The chromatin occuras small granules which appear to be migrating toward the periphery.
Fig.
.
r 7.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain.
Mouse 146 111 liours.
Male.
There is a large irregular mass consisting of acidophil material which is liberally provided with puhctiform basophil granules ami.
in addition a number of sharply staining elongated granules.
It is difficull to determine just where in the development of the male parasite a form like this belongs.
Fig.
58.
Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The chromatin is in the form of minute basophil granules.
There is a large irregular mass of these and three rounded clusters near the periphery.
Fig.
59.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The chromatin is aggregated into clusters of 6ne granules all of which are sharply basophil.
Some of these clusters are wholly independent of one another others are still united by strips of acidophil substance.
Fig.
til.
Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 179 16j hours int.
1.
Male.
The chromatin occurs as minute basophil granules either scattered or aggregated into clusters.
A marked tendency toward the assumption of a peripheral situation is to be noted.
The remnant of the linin network is omitted in the drawing.
Fig.
61.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 179 lti'.
hours int.
1.
The chromatin is in the form of minute basophil granules which occur in clusters most of which are peripheral.
The remnant of the linin network is omitted from the drawing.
Fig.
62.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 179 I65 hours int.
1.
Male.
This figure portrays much the same conditions as are shown in fig.
61 but only an optical section of the parasite is shown.
The granular clusters are thus seen to be exclusively peripheral.
Fig.
63.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 10t and 17 hours.
Form supposed to be a male.
Fig.
64.
 Freehand sketch.
Iron ha'matoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 IO5 and 17 hours.
Supposed male.
Fig.
65.
 Camera outline.
Iron haematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
The chromatin occurs as clusters of minute granules.
Fig.
66.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 152 IS hours.
Male.
Optical section.
The chromatin is in the form of minute intensely basophil granules aggregated in clusters that are arranged in a regular manner around the periphery.
P'ig.
67.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 152 IS hours int.
2.
Male.
Optical section.
The granular clusters the forerunners of the microgametes are seen to be arranged in a regular manner around the periphery.
They are slightly more compact than in fig.
66.
Fig.
68.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 152 IS hours int.
2.
Optical section.
The clusters are becoming more and more solid.
Fig.
69.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
The microgamete nuclei have still further solidified.
It is worthy of note that fig.
69 from a 9hour mouse represents later conditions than fig.
68 an 18hour stage.
Fig.
70.
 Camera outline.
Iron haematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Optical section.
The microgamete nuclei have become round solid balls.
Fig.
71.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 100 9 hours.
Male.
Condition intermediate between those shown in figs.
09 and 70.
Plate V.  Fig.
72.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain anil eosin.
Mouse 152 18 hours int.
2.
Male.
The solid nuclei are elongating to form the microgametes.
Fig.
73.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 152 IS hours int.
2.
The elongation continues.
Fig.
74.
 Camera outline.
Iron hematoxylin and eosin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Male.
Stage showing microgametes.
The parasite is unusually small.
This stage is very rare in periods as short as 9 hours.
Fig.
75.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain.
Mouse 152 18 hours.
Male.
Stage showing microgametes.
Fig.
76.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin.
Mouse 152 18 hours int.
1.
Optical section of the same stage of development as shown in fig.
75.
Fig.
77.
 Freehand sketch.
Thionin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 247 4 hours int.
14.
Female typical early stage.
Fig.
78.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Female.
Cytoplasm mottled.
Karyosome shows several black granules.
This is possibly a very early stage of maturation.
Fig.
79.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin.
Mouse 113 9 hours.
Typical female.
Fig.
80.
 Freehand sketch.
Iron hsematoxylin.
Mouse 113 9 hours.
Female.
Fig.
81.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Female.
Cytoplasm shows the alveolar structure which can frequently be made out in the females.
Nucleus shows a ring of deeply staining granules lying around the membrane.
These are taken to represent that part of the chromatin which is rejected during maturation.
Pig.
82.
 Camera outline.
Delafield and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Female same phase as shown in fig.
83.
The granules lying in the mouse cell are not believed to have anything to do with the parasite.
Fig.
83.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 106 9 hours.
Female.
Later stage of maturation.
Fig.
84.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 145 11 j hours int.
 1.
Female.
Late stage of maturation.
Fig.
85.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain.
Mouse 146 11
hours int.
 1.
Female.
Late stage of maturation.
Fig.
86.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 10
and 17 hours.
Female late stage of maturation.
Fig.
87.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain.
Mouse 146 11
hours int.
 1.
Female late stage of maturation.
Fig.
88.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 152 18 hours int.
2.
Mature female or macrogamete.
Fig.
89.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 120 10 and 17 hours.
Macrogamete.
Fig.
90.
 Camera outline.
Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin.
Mouse 145 Hi hours int.
 1.
Macrogamete.
Fig.
91.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 152 18 hours int.
2.
Macrogamete.
Fig.
92.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 152 18 hours int.
2.
Two microgametes are seeking to fertilize a macrogamete.
Fig.
93.
 Camera outline.
Wright's stain and eosin.
Mouse 152 18 hours int.
2.
Three mae.rogamet.es are shown in each of which is a conspicuous chromatic element taken to be the microgamete.
Bibliography.
Crawley Howard.
1913.
Initial stages of Sarcocystis infection.
Note presented before Helminthol.
Soc.
Wash. D. C Feb.
6.
Science N. Y. n. s. 952 v. 37 Mar.
28 p. 498.
1914.
Two new Sarcosporidia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Phila. v. 66 1 Jan.Mar. pp.
214218 1 fig.
 1914.
The evolution of Sarcocystis muris in the intestinal cells of the mouse.
Preliminary note.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sc.
Phila. v. 66 2 Apr.Aug. pp.
432436 pi.
15 figs.
112.
Ekdmann Hii.
H10.
Die Entwicklung der Sarcocystis muris in der Muskulatur.
Sitzungsb.
d. lesellsch.
naturf.
Fr.
zu Berl.
9 Nov. pp.
377387 figs.
AE pis.
1819 figs.
114.
PLATE I. CRAWLEY SLXUAL INVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS.
PLATE II.
21 o 
25 20 piuuiiiu 22 jUUiJUMJIlL yi 23 24 s 27 28 ' ' 29 30 31 y 32 33 34 35 36 CRAWLEY SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS.
PLATE III.
CRAWLEY SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS.
PLATE IV.
CRAWLEY SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS PLATE V. 78 79 CRAWLEY SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS.
1914.
Zu einigen strittigen Punkten der Sarkosporidienforschung.
Arch.
de zool.
exper.
et gen. Par. v. 53 9 juin pp.
579 596 pis 17 is figs.
110.
Fantham 11.
B.
1913.
Sarcocixtis colii n.
sp. a sarcosporidian occurring in the redfaced African mouse bird Colius erythromelon.
Proc.
Cambridge Eng.j Phil.
Soc v. 17 3 Sept. s pp.
221221. pi.
5.
Labbe Ai.imionsi.
1899.
Sporozoa.
8.
Berlin.
Das Tierreich Berl. ..
Lief. xx  180 pp. 190 figs.
MiNCHIN K. A.
1912.
An introduction to the study of the Protozoa with special reference to the parasitic forms.
xi  517pp. I94figs.
8.
London.
Schaudinn Fritz.
1900.
Untersuchungen iiber den Generationswechsel bei Coecidien.
Zool.
Jahrb. Jena Abt.
f.
Anat. v. 13 2 22.
Jan. pp.
197292 pis.
1316 figs.
1108.
February 15.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
Fiftynine persons present.
The Chair announced the deaths of Joseph R. Rhoads March 7 1915 and of Lincoln Godfrey February 8 1916 members.
The Publication Committee reported the presentation of papers under the following titles as contributions to the Proceedings Hunting Mollusca in Utah and Idaho by Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels January 19.
Notes on the anatomy of Oreohelix with a catalogue of species by Henry A. Pilsbry January 19.
Witmer Stone Sc.D. made an illustrated communication on western birds and their haunts being wayside observations on a journey across the continent.
The following was ordered to be printed cephalopoda of the kermadec islands.
by s. stillman berry.
Introduction.
The Kermadec Islands comprise a small archipelago of volcanic origin situated in the South Pacific Ocean northeast of New Zealand to which politically they belong.
Being off the beaten path of commerce they have been rarely visited and it is only very recently through the activity of various antipodean investigators that we arc beginning to gain any extended knowledge of their fauna.
So far as cephalopods are concerned the only species of the fauna known until the last year or two are the three octopods which the Challenger dredged from very deep water in the neighborhood in 1874 and which were therefore reported upon by Hoyle in 1885'86.
In the spring of 1913 the present writer received from Mr. W. R. B. Oliver of Auckland a small but what proved to be a very wellworthwhile collection of cephalopods taken on Sunday Island the most important member of the group by Mr. Oliver himself Mr. Tom Iredale and Mr. R. S. Bell in 1908 and 1910.
At the request of the sender this collection was worked up and reported upon in the Transactions of the New Zealand Institute for June 1914 but owing to certain exigencies of preparing and publishing the paper it proved impossible to provide illustrations adequate to the material described.
Some months later and too late to be reported upon simultaneously with the earlier specimens Mr. Oliver forwarded me another small vial of cephalopods collected as were some of the most unusual species in the first lot by Mr. R. S. Bell in 1910.
Being exceedingly anxious to secure additional material of the practically unique Nematolampas regalis and Abraliopsis astrolineata for further investigation I overhauled the new specimens with eagerness.
Though in this particular my quest was not fulfilled the disappointment was more than tempered by finding two species of genera not represented in the first collection.
In fact the collections supplement one another in such an interesting way that a report upon the second necessarily involves a greater or less consideration of the first.
The present paper therefore is practically a monograph of the cephalopod fauna of the Kermadec Islands as known to date.
I have so indicated in the title.
At the same time the opportunity appears propitious for publishing a few sketches and other illustrations additional to those given in my earlier paper and I trust the delay has not robbed them of value.
The new material reported comprises thirteen specimens which I find to be referable to seven species and the same number of genera and families as follows 1 Argonauta species young.
2 Polypus species young.
1 Onychoteuthis banksii Leach young.
1 Lampadioteuthis megaleia new genus and species.
1 Abraliopsis 
young.
6 Eucleoteuthis species young.
1 Megalocranchia pardus new species.
The two species thus added to the previous list appear to be new to science.
One of them is so divergent from anything we know that it is being made the type of a new genus and family.
It is somewhat surprising to find this form similar in many superficial peculiarities to the wonderful Nematolampas regalis previously described from Mr. Oliver's material and scarcely inferior in interest to its predecessor even though the actual relationship of the two does not appear an especially close one.
For further observations on these species of a somewhat general interest I would refer the reader to the concluding remarks offered in connection with the description of L. 'megaleia.
Altogether the results of the exploration of the Sunday Island beaches by Messrs. Oliver Iredale and Bell have been without precedent so far as the littoral capture of cephalopods is concerned and inevitably causes one to ponder what ultimate harvest this wonderful region holds in store for the teuthologist that a mere glimpse of wavebound wrack from a single beach should prove so astonishing.
A complete list of all the cephalopods thus far known from the waters of the Kermadec Islands with the number of specimens reported on is given in the following table Synopsis of the Cephalopoda of the Kermadec Islands.
Depth in fathoms.
Hoyle 188586.
Iredale 1910.
Berry 1914.
Berrv 1916. amily Cirroteuthide  Sla urate ut his meangensis Hovle 600 1 1916.
17 Depth in fathoms.
Family Amphitretidje  Hovle 188586.
redale 1910.
Berry 191 i. Berry 1916.
Am pint n tus pelag i c  8 Hoyle 520 1 Family Ahi. utid.e .1 rgonauta argo Linne .
1 rgona uta nodosa Solander .1 rgonauta species    1 Family PoLYPODIRS
 Polypus oliveri Berry shore 2 Polypus la r in ii il i it ii sis Berry Polypus young of various MoschiU s challengeri Berry 630 1 1 3 2 Family Spiiulid.e  Spirilu spirula  Linne  Family  xyciioteuthid.e  On ychoteuth is banksii Leach 6 1 Family I.YcoTKrTHiD.E  A' i in a I nla m pas regalis Berry  2 Family Lampadiotkithid.e Liiii pii'lmli uthis miijali in Berry 1 Family Fxoploteuthid.e  Aliralia astral i mala Berry.. Abraliopsis species 1 1 I
Family  mmastrkphid.e  Stht a at i uthis barlramii Lesueur Euclt nti uthis species 3 3 6 Family Craxchiid.e  Megalocra n chin pari Ins Berrv 1 Family Xattiud.e  Nautilus pompilius Linne .
X a a 1 1 1 ii s macromphalus Sowerby   Total specimens reported 3 5  24 13 Tiie fauna outlined in the table may conveniently be summarized as follows   rOPODA M VOPSIDA Families.
4 1 CJenera.
5 1 8 1 Spi ecies.
7 1 8 2 Species with photogenic organs.
I
CEgopslda 6 7 Tetrabranchiata 1 Total 12 15 18 48 proceedings of the academy of feb. New Terms Proposed.
The following taxonomic terms are used for the first time in the present paper Moschites challengeri new name for Eledone verrucosa Hoyle 1886 in part not of Verrill 1881.
Lampadioteuihidm new family.
Lampadioteuthis megaleia new genus and species.
Eucleoteuthis new genus for Symplectoteuthis luminosa Sasaki 1915.
Megalocranchia tardus new species.
Verrilliteuthis new genus for Desmoteuthis Verrill December 1881 in part not of Verrill February 1881.
Systematic Review of the Species.
Order DIBRANCHIATA.
Suborder OCTOPODA.
Family CIRROTEUTHIDiE.
Genus STAUROTEUTHIS Verrill 1879.
1.
Stauroteuthis meangensis Hoyle 1885.
188.
Cirroteuthis meangensis Hovle Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 5 15 .. 234.
188.
Cirroteuthis meangensis Hoyle Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
Edinb. 13 p. 111.
1880.
Cirroteuthis meangensis Hoyle Challenger Rep. p. 63 pi.
9 figs.
12 13 pi.
11 figs.
1.2 pi.
13 figs.
5 6.
1904.
Stauroteuthis meangensis Hoyle Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. 43 p. 5.
One young specimen was taken by the Challenger in 600 fathoms north of the Kermadec Islands.
Family AMPHITRETIDE.
Genus AMPHITRETUS Hoyle 1885.
2.
Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle 1885.
1885.
Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 5 15 p. 235.
1885.
Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle Narrative Chall.
Exp. 1 p. 271 fig.
106.
1885.
Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
Edinb. 13 p. 113 fig.
1886.
Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle Challenger Rep. p. 67 pi.
9 figs.
79.
The type locality of this species is 29 55' S.
Lat. 178 14' W.
Long. off the Kermadec Islands.
Here one specimen was dredged by the Challenger in 520 fathoms.
Family ARGONAUTID.
Genus ARGONAUTA Linne 1758.
3.
Argonauta argo I.irme.
1758.
1758.
Argonauta Argo Linne Syst.
Nat. ed.
X p. 70S.
1010.
Argonauta argo lredale Proc.
Malac.
Soc 9 pp.
70 72.
1915.
Argonauta argo Oliver Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. 47 p. 560. lredale and Oliver record a few shells of this species washed up on the beaches of Sunday Island.
Comparison should probably be made with .1. pacifica Dall and A. grand if ormis Perry.
4.
Argonauta nodosa Solander 17m 1.786.
Argonauta nodosa Solandcr.
Portland Cat. p. 96 No.
2120.
I'.Ui.
Argonauta nodosa redale Proc.
Malac.
Soc 9 pp.
70 72 L915.
Argonauta nodosa Oliver Trans.
X.
Z.
Inst. 17 p. 560.
Both redale and Oliver state that animals and shells of this species are occasionally washed to land at Sunday Esland.
Argonauta species.
PI.
VI fig.
I. L914.
Argonauta sp.
Berry Trans.
X.
Z. Inst 46 p. 135.
A very small female without a shell fS.
S. B.
420 collected by Bell in 1910 is presumably the same species as the specimens already reported in the paper cited.
A photograph of one of the former specimens showing the hectocotylus in situ within the mantle cavity of the female is now given as fig.
1 on Plate VI.
Oliver 1915 p. 500 suggests that these specimens are to be referred to .1. nodosa Solandcr.
Family POLYPODIDiE.
Genus POLYPUS Schneider 1784.
5.
Polypus oliveri Berry 1914.
PI.
VI fig.
2.
1914.
Polypus oliveri Berry Trans.
X.
Z. Inst.. 40. p. 136.
1915.
Polypus oliveri Oliver Trans.
X.
Z.
Inst. 47 pp.
560 564.
As this species has not been figured the matter is remedied by the photograph reproduced in the accompanying plate.
6.
Polypus kermadecensis Berry 1914.
1914.
Polypus kermadecensis Berry Trans.
X'.
Z.
Inst. 46 p. 138 pis.
7 8.
Polypus species Young.
Two very juvenile Polypi in the second collection cannot yet be determined S. S. B.
434.
Genus MOSCHITES Schneider 17s4.
7.
Moschites challengeri new name.
1SS6.
EUxlone verrucosa Hovle in part.
Challenger Rep. p. 104 not of Yenill. Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. 8 p. 105.
One specimen was dredged off the Kermadecs in 630 fathoms by the Challenger and reported by Hoyle as the Atlantic M. verrucosa Verrill.
I have long felt grave doubtas to the correctness of Hoyle's determination.
The Kermadec Islands and the eastern coast of the United States are localities so extremely remote and isolated from one another that such an anomalous distribution for a crawling bottomloving species of this sort seems  priori at leasl doubtful.
Fortunately we have Hoyle's express statemenl that the Challenger specimen has the extremity of the hectocotylized arm 4 formed like that of an Octopus rather than like that of an Eledone as shown in Verrill's figure.
In the light of our present knowledge that even relatively slight differences in the structure of the hectocotylus are important in distinguishing species there is evidently available here a sufficient diagnostic character to separate the two forms.
A new name therefore seems expedient for the Kermadec species.
Suborder DECAPODA.
Division MYOPSIDA.
Family SPIRULIDL Genus SPIRULA Lamarck 1799.
8.
Spirula spirula Linne 1758.
1758.
Nautilus spirula Linne Syst.
Nat. ed.
X p. 710.
1910.
Spirula spirula Iredale Proc.
Malac.
Soc y pp.
70 72.
1915.
Spirula spirula Oliver Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. 47 .p.
558.
Oliver states that dead shells are abundant on the Sunday Island beaches occasionally with portions of the.
animal.
Division EGOPSIDA.
Family ONYCHOTEUTHIDE.
Genus ONYCHOTEUTHIS Lichtenstein 1818.
9.
Onychoteuthis banksii Leach 1817.
1817.
Loligo Banskii Leach Zool.
Misc. 3 p. 141.
1826.
Onychoteuthis Banskii Ferussac Annates Sci.
Nat. 1 7 p. 151.
1914.
Onychoteuthis banksii Berry Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. 46 p. 139.
A young specimen of this species is in the present collection S. S. B.
422.
Family LYCOTEUTHIDiE.
Genus NEMATOLAMPAS Berry 1913.
10.
Nematolampas regalis Berry 1913.
PI.
VII PI.
VIII.
fig.
5.
1913.
Nematolampas regalis Berry Biol.
Bull. 25 p. 20S text fig.
1.
1914.
Nematolampas regalis Berry Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. 46 p. 140 text tie's.
14 PL IX.
Sketches are now given of one of the curious hoodshaped suckers which appear along the distal regions of the arms and also of a portion of the gladius figs.
13.
The gladius of this species as shown by a few fragments extracted from the poorly preserved paratype S. S. B.
410 is exceedingly slender and consists of little but the narrow rhachis.
The wings are narrow and set very obliquely so that the ventral concavity is unusually narrow and deep.
They finally terminate in a very small delicate spoonshaped cone which is supported by a small I'.Hii.l .51 solid distinctly bulbous swelling at the extreme base of the slender rluichis figs.
2 3.
Fig.
1.
Fig.
2.
Fig.
3.
Fig.
1.
 Nematolampas regalis camera sketch of sucker from distal portion of right third arm 409 from mount in balsam X 70.
Fig.
2.
 Nematolampas regalis oblique ventral view of posterior extremity of gladius 410 camera drawing X 20.
Fig.
3.
 Oblique dorsal view of.
same same scale.
Family LAMPADIOTEUTHID new family.
Squids of small size with terminal sagittate fins.
Arms with two rows of suckers.
Tentacle clubs with four rows of suckers.
No hooks present on either arms or tentacles.
Buccal membrane eightpointed.
Gladius with lateral wings but no terminal cone.
Luminous organs present in the pallial chamber on the eyeball along the stalk of the tentacles and at the base of the tentacles.
For the present the characters of the new family must be drawn from those of the type genus alone so no doubt important emendation must later take place.
I would tentatively place the Lampadioteuthidce between the Lycoteuthidce on the one hand and the Enoploteuthidce on the other.
The group cannot be referred to the Lycoteuthidce on account of the entirely different construction of the gladii.
Some teuthologists may prefer to place it with the Enoploteuthidce but it seems to me that the complete lack of hooks or modified suckers on either tentacles or arms produces an anomaly fatal to this arrangement.
Of course a fuller knowledge of the anatomy of all these forms than is now possible is as likely as not to bring about an entirely different classification but I think the one adopted is for the meanwhile the most reasonable.
52 Feb. Genus LAMPADIOTEUTHIS new genus.
Body loliginiform.
Fins broad subsagittate terminal slightly surpassing the body posteriorly.
Arms with two rows of minute suckers but no hooks.
Tentacle clubs not expanded armed with four rows of smaM suckers.
Buccal membrane eightpointed pale in color but dotted with numerous dark chromatophores between the trabecular.
Photogenic organs richly developed their distribution being as follows 1.
One at the extreme base of each tentacle and four along the stalk.
2.
A longitudinal series of three large organs on the ventral side of the eyeball of which the median is notably the smallest and a single similar organ on the eyelid just back of the opening.
3.
Five intrapallial organs including 2 anal 2 branchial very large and 1 abdominal organ.
No luminous organs have been identified anywhere in the outer integument of the arms head or mantle.
Gladius comprising a rapidly tapering rhachis free in front but with delicate somewhat broadly angular wings along its posterior twothirds.
Type.
 The following species.
11.
Lampadioteuthis megaleia new species.
PI.
VIII figs.
14.
Animal small.
Mantle firm fleshy cylindroconic in outline in front rather flaring thence tapering quickly to a point.
Fins large and fairly thick in proportion to the small size of the body slightly more than half as long as the mantle each fin about a fifth longer than wide strongly united in the median line posteriorly where they extend slightly past the tip of the mantle triangular the posterior margins nearly straight and converging to a very obtuse point anterior margins almost straight on the outward edges but somewhat squarely arcuate in front and thence descending toward the body so as to form small lobes.
Head large almost as wide as the flaring mantle opening and wider than the body is Fig.
4.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia semidiagrammatic representation of cut ire animal from the ventral aspect to show the distribution of the photocgeni organs about natural size.
M16.
53 near the middle strongly compressed flattened above somewhat depressed below between the large rounded eyes.
Funnel broad rather flat and short not extending to the middle of the eyes valved the valve appearing as a very delicate crescentic pocketlike membrane on the inner dorsal wall a little way behind the aperture.
Funnel organ not easily made out in the material available although the Ashaped median organ of the dorsal wall is evident fig.
6.
Funnel locking cartilage straight simple pointed anteriorly but rounded truncate at the other end and otherwise of nearly even width grooves shallow simple straight margins raised and reflexed fig.
7.
Slender ridges on the mantle correspond as usual.
Fig.
6.
Fig.
7.
Fig.
6.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia outline sketch of the funnel region 416 X 2 an. anus phot. anal photophores v. valve v.o. median pad of funnel organ.
Fig.
7 .Lampadioteuthis megaleia camera outline of left funnel cartilage 416 X 8.
Sessile arms little attenuate the longest over twothirds as long as the mantle unequal somewhat mutilated in the specimen at hand but the formula of relative length apparently 3  2 4 1 dorsal arms notably shorter and less robust than the remainder.
Outer margin of ventral and third arms keeled the second pair more obscurely so and the dorsal pair merely angled.
On all the arms except the dorsal pair the keel terminates in a very delicate transparent carina of membrane.
The third arms in particular bear a strongly trabeculate hyaline membrane along their ventral margins though all the arms possess welldeveloped swimming membranes homologous with these.
Suckerbearing portion of arms compressed the suckers 54 Feb. in two rows minute on all the arms but excessively so on the ventral pair.
On a horny ring from one of the distal suckers of the left third arm I count seven teeth along the upper margin the central ones especially being long slender closely spaced and rather bluntly pointed.
Tentacles cylindrical over twice as long as the arms robust at base thence tapering rapidly to the slender club which is scarcely or not at all expanded PL VIII fig.
3.
Suckers of club in four much compressed rows minute basinshaped the horny rings of the largest armed with 913 slender acute teeth along the upper semicircumference figs.
8 9.
Fig.
8.
Fig.
9.
Fig.
10.
Fig.
8.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia oral view of a median sucker from the left tentacle club of the type 416 X 70 camera outline from a mount in balsam.
Fig.
9.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia nearly apical view of a similar sucker 4161 X 70 camera outline from a mount in balsam.
Fig.
10.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia optical section of second photophore from base of left tentacle of type 416 camera sketch from mount in balsam X 15.
Buccal membrane eightpointed the lappets light colored but the delicate intervening membranes dotted on the outside with dark winecolored to brownish chromatophores.
Fig.
5.
Fig.
11.
Fig.
5.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia left eyeball seen from below in outline showing position of photophores X 1.
Fig.
11.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia basal photophore from left tentacle of type 416 seen in optical section X 15 camera sketch from mount in balsam  chr. chromatophores phot. photogenic organ st. stalk of same.
1916.
.i.i Subocular photophores large circular in outline whitish four in number on each eye three of which the median is somewhat the smallest occupy the usual situs on the ventral periphery the fourth is larger than any of these and situated just within the boundary of the pupil at a point almost exactly behind the centre of the lens fig.5.
A series of four large ovoid photophores appears embedded in the stalk of each tentacle below the club the three proximal ones occupying the proximal half of the tentacle the distal one somewhat isolated from the others and near the club.
At the extreme base of the tentacle borne on a short stalk on its outer side appears a spherical photophore which is almost wholly concealed in preserved specimens by the tentacular sheath.
It is distinctly larger than even the most proximal of the organs just described and judging from its outward appearance only I think it will prove to be entirely different in structure text fig.
11 PI.
VIII fig.
4.
V Fig.
12.
Fig.
13.
Fig.
14.
Fig.
12.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia camera drawing of gladius of type 416 dorsal aspect x 3.
Fig.
13.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia ventral view of posterior extremity of gladius 416 X 18 camera sketch.
Fig.
14.
 Dorsal view of same same scale.
In addition to the above are the following intrapallial luminous organs 1.
A roundish swollen brownish organ on each side of the cavity a little behind the anus.
2.
A very large elongatepyriform bright silvery organ at the base of each gill near the middle of the cavity.
3.
A bright silvery tubercle larger than the anal organs but very much smaller than the branchial situated behind the viscera in the medioventral line nearly at the tip of the body fig.
4.
Gladius of simple Enoploteuthid structure the rhachis free in front and broadest at the apex thence tapering quite rapidly to a narrow point wings thin and delicate sharply angled in front of their middle where each is about three times as wide as is the stem at the same level they extend along the posterior twothirds of the gladius terminating around the point of the rhachis to form a slight posterior concavity which is hardly spoon shaped and is certainly not to be called a cone figs.
1214.
Color in alcohol mantle brownish white dotted with pale chromatophores head and ventral aspect of the funnel darker due to the more numerous dark chromatophores eyes dark slate color the lenses pearly white arms and tentacles pale like the mantle.
Type.
 A rather poorly preserved female 
S. S. B.
416.
It is minus one tentacle and a little macerated but is in good enough condition to be described as above.
Type Locality.
 A beach on Sunday Island where the single specimen was picked up by Mr. R. S. Bell in 1910.
Measurements.
mm.
Total length 85 Length of mantle dorsal 30 Tip of body to base of dorsal arms 39 Length of fins extreme 17 Width of fin 14 Width across fins 30 Anterior width of mantle 15 Width of neck 7 Width across eyes 14 Length of head 10 Length of funnel 9 Length of right dorsal arm 17 Length of left dorsal arm 15  Length of right second arm 13  Length of left second arm 20  Length of right third arm 16  Length of left third arm 21  Length of right ventral arm 22 Length of left ventral arm 22 Length of right tentacle 24  Length of left tentacle 47 Length of club of left tentacle i 7 Remarks.
 In spite of its wholly dissimilar gladius this Little species reminds one more strongly of the two Lycoteuthid genera Lycoteuthis and Nematolampas than any other group and this is probably due to the one fact more than any other thai the photogenic complexes are so strikingly similar.
That of the L. megaleia is accordingly summed up in the accompanying table which also repeats the figures for L. diadema and N. regalis given in my earlier paper.
L. Position of Photophores.
diadema.
 m ryes Ventral periphery 10 Lateral  n arms Tips of dorsal arms Tips of dorsolateral arms Ventrolateral arms  hi tentacles At base Along the stalk i Within pallia
chamber Anal 2 Branchial 2 Abdominal 1 4 Posterior extremity of body A. regalis.
L. megaU ia.
10 6 2 2 2 62 4 2 8 2 2 4 2 2 2 1 Total 22 90 23 Although in each of the three species subocular tentacular and intrapallial organs are well developed the table helps to emphasize differences which may be more important than the similarities.
Then again although I have not yet had opportunity to work out the histology of any of these structures in Lampadioteuthis the external appearance of its tentacular photophores is not at all like the deepseated organs of the Lycoteuthids while the curious organs protruding from the base of the tentacles fail to resemble anything known to me.
The single pair of enormous silvery photophores at the base of the gills is also distinctive as contrasted with the belt of five smaller organs possessed by the Lycoteuthid genera.
The occasion is very tempting to add a little generalizing on the possible significance of such striking differences in the luminous pattern of cephalopods especially since the constituent organs are so evidently polyphyletic in origin but this had best be reserved for some future opportunity.
1 I have followed prevailing usage in classifying the series of three organs situated between the branchial pair in Lycoteuthis and Nematolampas as abdominal though it seems to me more rational to consider them in relation with the branchial organs than with the isolated posterior organ.
58 Feb. At any rate it is remarkable that the Sunday Island beaches should yield so extensive a series of bizarre types and that with the exception of an ommastrephid every squid collected there is the possessor of systems of dermal organs which we must assume are photogenic.
 Fig.
16.
 Abralia astrolineata lateral view of third hook from base of right t e n t a c 1 e club 408 X 30 camera drawing from mount in balsam.
Fig.
15.
 Abralia astrolineata inner face of right tentacle club of tvpe 408 X 8 mainly a camera drawing.
Family ENOPLOTEUTHIDiE.
Genus ABRALIA Gray 1849.
12.
Abralia astrolineata Berry 1914.
1914.
Abralia astrolineata Berry Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. 46 p. 145 pi.
10.
An illustration of the tentacle club of this species is supplied in fig.
15 and of a hook therefrom in fig.
16.
The statement on p. 145 of the original description regarding the discrepancy in the number of hooks on the two tentacle clubs of the type specimen is just reversed the right club shows a fifth hook the left only the four large ones.
Genus ABRALIOPSIS Joubin 1896.
13.
I Abraliopsis hoylei Pfeffer 1884.
Pi.
IX fig.
l. 1884.
EnophtevMs Hoylei Pfeffer Ceph.
Hamburg Mus. p. 17 fig.
2222b.
1896.
Abraliopsis Hoylei Joubin Bull.
Soc.
Sci.
Ouest 5 p. 33 etc.
1914.
1 Abraliopsis hoylei Berry Trans.
N. Z. Inst 46 p. 148.
The specimen previously recorded S. S. B.
400 is now figured on PI.
IX fig.
1.
Abraliopsis C
species.
PI.
IX fig.
3.
A small abralioid in the second collection offers some interesting peculiarities S. S. B.
419 and I am not certain that it represents the same species as the preceding though this will quite likely prove to be the case in the end.
The only doubtful character is that each arm of the ventral pair appears to terminate in a slender filament instead of the usual beaded photophores but these filaments are quite badly damaged in the specimen so that their exact nature is difficult to make out.
The two rows of hooks on the ventral arms persist even onto the 1916.
59 4 Fig.
IS.
Muni ii psis 
 late r a I V i e w of 1 a r g e hook from left tent a c 1 e club 419 X 30 camera drawing from mount in balsam.
base of the filaments.
Otherwise the specimen is a fairly typical Abraliopsis.
The tentacle club much resembles that of the preceding as described in my former paper.
There are four large slender hooks in the ventral row ami three or four
small ones in the dorsal row the latter being succeeded proximally by two minute 1 suckers.
The distal portion of the club is occupied by the usual four rows of small suckers.
I can make out only two suckers in the fixing apparatus figs.
17 18.
The photogenic organs of the mantle are distributed longitudinally in bands and lines.
There is a conspicuous clearly defined space free of photophores along the medioventral line.
Bounding this on either side is a roughly triserial bandlike aggregation of photogenic organs the central members of which tend to be larger than the lateral ones.
This band is succeeded laterally by a single series of large and small photophores more or less in alternation.
A weak series of small organs is then followed by a very distinct single line of photophores beyond which the organs are scattering and less regular.
There are eight rows on the ventral aspect of the head and the rudiments of perhaps as many on the funnel.
Each central arm bears two rows.
The two terminal photophores of the subocular group are conspicuously larger than the three median ones and of the latter the central organ is in its turn a little the largest.
Fig.
17.
 Abraliopsis 
 inner face of righl tentacle club of young specimen 419 X 15 freehand sketch from mount in balsam.
The arrangement and number of the distal suckers is only approximated.
Family OMMASTREPHIDE.
Genus STHENOTEUTHIS Verrill 1880.
14.
Sthenoteuthis bartramii Lesueur 1821.
1X21.
Loligo bartramii Lesueur Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2 p. 90 pi.
7 lssii.
Sthenoteuthis Bartramii Verriil Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci.j  p. 223.
1914.
Sthenoteuthis bartramii Berry Trans.
X.
Z. Inst.. 46 p. 148.
Genus SYMPLECTOTEUTHIS Pfeffer 1900.
Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis Lesson 1830.
1830.
Loligo oualaniensis Lesson Zool.
Voy.
Coquille p. 240 pi.
1 fig.
2.
1900.
Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis Pfeffer Synops.
Egops.
Ceph. p. 180.
It now appears that my reference of certain of the Kermadec squids to this species was premature see further note below despite the fact that the islands lie well within its probable range.
Genus EUCLEOTEUTHIS new genus.2 15.
Eucleoteuthis species young .
1914.
Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis Berry Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. 46 p. 148 not Loligo oualaniensis Lesson 1830.
With the exception of the smallest which may prove to be a genuine Symplectoteuthis six quite small and rather poorly preserved Ommastrephids in the second collection sent me S. S. B.
421 are apparently referable here.
A reexamination of the similar specimens previously reported as S. oualaniensis in the light of Sasaki's recent work see appended footnote shows that these likewise should be included in the newer genus.
On all with the single exception noted the supposed photogenic tissue is evident as a pair of narrow whitish bands running along the ventral aspect of the body much as in E. luminosa though apparently not interrupted as in that species.
In some of the specimens a pale oval macula may be made out near the mantle margin and just outside the line of the bands but in no case have the maculae at the base of the ventral arms been identified.
Numerous other differences in the outline of the photogenic organs their distribution the shape of the fins and body and the proportions 2 In a recent paper On three interesting new cegopsids from the Bay of Sagami  Jour.
Coll.
Agric Tohoku Imper.
Univ. Sapporo v. 6 pp.
131150 pi.
4 Madoka Sasaki describes and beautifully illustrates a very remarkable luminous squid from 700 fathoms off Misaki Japan to which he attaches the name Symplectoteuthis luminosa.
The creature is absolutely unique among described cephalopods in the fact that the principal photogenic organs instead of being small spherical or ovoid cysts as in most cegopsids take the form of a pair of narrow zonelike bands extending with but two interruptions along the ventral aspect of the mantle for nearly its entire length.
A pair of smaller maculse of similar character lie outside the terminal segments of the bands near the anterior margin and a larger ovoid transverse organ appears at the base of each ventral arm.
While the photogenic property of these curious structures does not appear to have been observed in the living animal Sasaki infers such a function from their histology.
It seems to me that these characters coupled with several minor features among which may be noted the unidentate horny rings of the larger tentacular suckers are sufficient to quite preclude the proper reference of this species to Symplectoteuthis a genus not known to possess any luminous properties and in which the larger tentacular rings are multidentate.
Having conveyed these opinions to Prof. Sasaki and ascertained that he has no present intention of altering his original disposition of the species I now propose with his courteous permission the new genus Eucleoteuthis with S. luminosa Sasaki as type.
of the arms arc evident so thai il seems possible thai an undescribed species of the genus is before us.
The largest of the specimens however has a mantle length of only 41 mm. and since we know nothing of the younger stages of E. liuninosa while the condition of our own material leaves much to be desired a more detailed consideration of the speciology will best be deferred for the present.
Family CftANCHIIDE.
Genus MEGALOCRANCHIA Pfeffer 1884.
16.
Megalocranchia pardus new species.
PI IX fig.
2.
Small elongate caskshaped.
Mantle thin smooth saccular membranous much inflated its greatest circumference near the middle thence tapering slightly anteriorly and more so behind where it comes to an acute point between the fins maximum width of mantle distinctly less thai
half the length.
Fins small about threetenths as long as the body thin semicircular barely continuous around the point of the mantle which they exceed for about a third of their length  posterior cleft deep and very narrow.
Anterior margin of the mantle trilobate being conspicuously indented almost cleft in the dorsomedian line as well as to a less degree at either side of the funnel the clefts marking the three points where the mantle is firmly attached to the head and funnel.
Head very short and broad the length contained in the width measured to include the eyes nearly four times width of head between the eyes less than the depth of the eyeball.
Eyes very large and protruding elevated on short massive slightly movable stalks eyeball ovate in outline projecting obliquely downward lid opening of fair size not puckered.
The ventral surface of the eyeball is occupied by a large semicircular photogenic organ which forms a bluntly conical projection toward one side another smaller organ of crescentic outline lies within the concavity of the latter fig.
19.
Funnel large thinwalled broad at base extending well past the base of the ventral arms and entirely covering the ventral surface of the head between the eyes aperture ample.
Funnel organ well developed the large hepatiform mediodorsal organ bears on each lobe a fingerlike papilla which bends inward at the base so that it lies ahnoT transversely the two mailer lateral organs are roughly circular and each has a slight indentation on the front inner margin fig.
20 j. Armshort robust the longest but little more than a quarter as 62 Feb. long as the mantle unequal the order of length distinctly 3 4 2 1.
Umbrella wanting.
Ventral arms with a frilllike keel on the outer angle keel of third arms confined to distal portion and obscure or o Fig.
19.
Fig.
20.
Fig.
19.
 Megalocranchia pardus part camera outline of right eye of type 415 ventral aspect X 5J phot.
1  phot.
2  photogenic organs.
Fig.. 20.
 Megalocranchia pardus outline of funnel organ 415 much enlarged.
wanting on the two dorsal pairs.
All the arms have a delicate trabeculate swimming membrane on either margin of the suckerbearing area but this attains much its best development on the third pair.
Suckers biserial closely placed in each row but the series slightly separated from one another on all but the ventral arms where they are relatively close together number of suckers varying from 14 pairs on one of the dorsal arms to 16 pairs on the ventral arms.
Sucker apertures wide the horny rings weakly dentate on the upper semicircumference and with only rudiments of teeth below even at their best the denticles appear rather as strong crenulations than teeth about 18 were counted on a ring from one of the larger suckers of the right third arm fig.
21.
Tentacles short stout the longer about a third again as long as the longest arms or about twofifths the length of the mantle larger and thicker than any of the arms.
Clubs slightly expanded armed with four crowded rows of suckers largest near the middle but diminishing in size both distally and proximally where they continue down the stalk a little more than half way to the base.
A horny ring from one of the largest suckers on the club shows about 26 conical roundpointed sometimes curved teeth which are smallest on the inferior margin fig.
22.
Color of preserved specimen brownish cream chromatophores brown eyes bluish black subocular photophores bronze surrounded by a bluish ring.
Chromatophores large scattered elongate 1916.1 63 oval in outline conspicuously spotting the entire mantle though somewhat paler ventrally than dorsally an underlying bilateral arrangement is evident particularly in the case of the larger chroFig.
21.
Fig.
22.
Fig.
21.
 Megalocranchia pardus sucker from right third arm of type 41 X 28 camera outline from mount in balsam.
Fig.
22.
 Megalocranchia pardus one of the larger suckers from the right tentacle club of the type 415 X 60 camera drawing from a mount in balsam.
matophores  there also seems to be a certain tendency to an arrangement in zigzag lines in a transverse direction most apparent on the ventral aspect.
There is a single series of chromatophores along the mediodorsal line exactly overlying the gladius which appears as a translucent line beneath 21 of the organs can be counted to the point where the translucent area expands.
Type.
 The unique type S. S. B.
415 is in an excellent state of preservation.
Type Locality.
 A beach on Sunday Island Kermadec Group R. S. Bell 1910.
Measurements.
nun.
Total length 75 Length of mantle dorsal 50 Extreme length of fins 14 Maximum width of mantle 22 Width across fins 13 Width across eyes 15 Length of head 4 Length of funnel '.
13 Length of right dorsal arm 7 Length of left dorsal arm 7.5 Length of right second arm 9 Length of left second arm 9 Length of right third arm 13 Length of left third arm 13 mm.
Length of right ventral arm 10 Length of left ventral arm 10 Length of right tentacle 21 Length of right tentacle club 5 Length of left tentacle 16 Length of left tentacle club 5 Remarks.
 The elucidation of the compact little group of squids of Avhich M. pardus is a typical example has been for me one of the most difficult taxonomic problems encountered in the study of the cephalopoda.
All the species are represented in collections by such scanty material are so similar to one another and the characters which separate them appear of such a trivial nature that the described forms are in sore need of careful checking up by someone having access to the type specimens of the older species.
At the same time the species are quite well set apart from other Cranchiids so that a synopsis of the genus would include only the following  3 1.
Megalocranchia maxima Pfeffer 1884.
2.
Taonius abyssicola Goodrich 1896.
3.
Helicocranchia fisheri Berry 1909.
4.
Desmoteuthis pelludda Chun 1910.
5.
Megalocranchia pardus Berry 1915.
The second of these is little known is unique in several respects and may eventually prove to belong elsewhere.
On the other hand the first third and fourth are apparently not strongly differentiated and it is with these that the present species requires special comparison to justify its separate recognition.
The specimen most certainly represents a species different from M. fisheri the only other Megalocranchia with which I have had opportunity for comparing it but to Chun's pelludda it seems exceedingly close.
The description and figures of the latter are not now available to me but from my notes made therefrom a few years ago I feel that the differences though so slight are nevertheless too great for uniting the species.
In reaching this conclusion I place reliance upon the almost stalked eyes of M. pardus the immense development of the funnel and the denticulation of the horny rings.
3 The species described as Desmoteuthis tenera Verrill Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sri. 5 p. 412 now seems to me to be improperly grouped with the caskshaped roundfinned forms cited above.
As I have shown in a former paper Science X. S. 36 pp.
643646 the genus Desmoteuthis falls into the absolute synonymy of Taonius so can no longer be used here.
I would therefore propose for the reception of D. tenera the new genus Verrilliteuthis.
To name the group for the master of American teuthologists requires no excuse save posibly an apology for the resulting barbarism.
Order TETRABRANCHIATA.
Suborder NAUTILOIDEA.
Family NAUTILID.
Genus NAUTILUS I.inne 1758.
IT.
Nautilus pompilius Linn6 L758.
L758.
Nautilus Pompilius Linne Syst.
Nat. ed.
X No.
283 p. 709.
1910.
autilux pompilius redale Proc.
Malac.
Soc  .t p. 72.
1915.
Nautilus pompilius Oliver Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. 17 p. 558.
Oliver reports a broken shell washed up on the beach at Sunday Island.
18.
Nautilus macromphalus Sowerby 1848. is is.
Nautilus macromphalus Sowerby Thes.
Conch. p. 164 pi.
98 figs.
4 5.
1910.
Nautilus macromphalus redale Proc.
Malac.
Soc. 9 p. 72.
1915.
Nautilus macromphalus Oliver Trans.
N. Z.
Inst. 47 p. 558.
Oliver reports a broken shell washed up on the beach at Sunday Island.
Bibliography of Kermadec Island Cephalopods.
Berry S. Stillman.
1913.
Nematolampas a remarkable new cephalopod from the South Pacific.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
25 pp.
208212 1 text fig. August 1913.
Nematolampas regalis new genus and species.
1914.
Notes on a collection of cephalopods from the Kermadec Islands.
Transactions New Zealand Institute Vol.
46 pp.
134149 text figs.
14 pis.
710.
June 1914.
Gives notes on 9 species including Polypus oliveri P. kermadecensis and Abralia astrolineata new species.
Hoyle William E. 1885.
Diagnoses of new species of Cephalopoda collected during the cruise of H. M. S.
Challenger.
 Part I.
The Octopoda.
Annals and Magazine of Natural History 5 Vol.
15 pp.
222236 March 1885.
Antphitn his pelagicus new genus and species.
1885a.
Brief notice of the 'Challenger Cephalopoda.
Narrative Challenger Expedition Vol.
1 pp.
269274 17 figs.
106109 1885.
Figure of A mphitrelus p lagicus. 
1885b.
Preliminary report on the Cephalopoda collected by H. M. S.
Challenger.
Part' I.
The Octopoda.
Proceedings Royal Society of Edinburgh Vol.
13 pp.
94114 cuts August 1885.
1886.
Report on the Cephalopoda collected by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 18731876.
Voyage of the Challenger Vol.
16 pp.
ivi 1246 9 figs in text pis.
133 1886.
Three species Cirroteuthis mt angt nsis Amphitretus pelagicus and Eledone verrucosa reported from near the Kermadecs.
redale Tom.
1910.
On marine Mollusca from the Kermadec Islands and on the Sinusigera apex.
Proceedings Malacological Society London.
Vol.
9 pp.
6879 March 1910.
List reprinted in Proc.
N. Z.
nst. 1910 p. 57 fl Oliver five species of shellbearing cephalopods listed.. Oliver W. R. B.
1911.
Notes on reptiles and mammals in the Kermadec slands.
Transactions New Zealand Institute Vol.
43 1910. pp.
535539 July 1911.
Mentions a fragment of an undetermined giant squid c up on the beach p. 536.
1915.
The Mollusca of the Kermadec Islands.
Transactions New Zealand Institute Vol.
47 pp.
509568 pis.
912 July 1915.
Gives a re'sume' of previous records the cephalopods on pp.
.Vs560.
Explanation of Plates VI VII VIII IX.
Plate VI.
 Fig.
1.
 Argonauta species female.
Mantle laid open to show the male hectocotylus in situ within the cavity S. S. B.
403 X 1.
Fig.
2.
 Polypus oliveri Berry female.
Dorsal aspect of type S. S. B.
405 about natural size.
Plate VII.
 Fig.
1.
 Nematolampas regalis Berry.
Distal portion of right third arm of type S. S. B.
409 photographed by reflected light from a mount in balsam X 2.
Fig.
2.
 Nematolampas regalis.
Proximal portion of same preparation X 8J.
Fig.
3.
 Nematolampas regalis.
Median portion of the terminal filament of the right third arm X 8 photographed from the same preparation.
Plate VIII.
 Fig.
1.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia Berry.
Dorsal aspect of type S. S.B.
416 X U.
Fig.
2.
 Ventral aspect of same same scale.
Fig.
3.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia.
Tentacle club of type from mount in balsam X 7.
Fig.
4.
 Lampadioteuthis megaleia.
Base of tentacle from same preparation X 7 showing the two basal photophores.
Fig.
5.
 Nematolampas regalis Berry.
Subocular photophores from right eye of paratype S. S. B.
410 X 7 photograph of inner surface from mount in balsam.
Plate IX.
 Fig.
l.Abraliopsis hoylei Pfeffer .
Ventral aspect of immature female S. S. B.
400 X 2.
Fig.
2.
 Megalocranchia pardus Berry.
Ventral aspect of type S. S. B.
415 X2.
Fig.
3.
 Abraliopsis 
 species.
Ventral integument of very young specimen S. S. B.
419 showing the distribution of the photogenic organs photographed by reflected light from a mount in balsam stained with Delafield's hematoxylin X 6.
Note.
 I am indebted to my friends Edward A. Cornwall and Leroy Childs for most of the photographs used in the accompanying plates.
Thanks are likewise due to both Messrs. Iredale and Oliver for many incidental favors.
PLATE VI.
.
BERRY CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS.
PLATE Vlt.
e i v s .
1 BERRY CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS PLATE VIII.
1 r g BERRY CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS.
PLATE IX.
    ............ .
.
.

  ki  v      .
 '      ... .
      .
  'v.
. .
 BERRY CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS.
March 21.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the chair.
Seventyeight persons present.
The death of John Thomson A.M. a member February 23 1916 was announced.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under the following titles as contributions to the Proceedings  The Germ Layers of Bdellodrilus by George W. Tannreuther February 23.
'Some Bees from Australia Tasmania and the New Hebrides by T. D. A. Cockerell March 6.
A New Species of Onchidiopsis from Bering Sea by William H. Dall March 16. 
Evidence of a Saturation Point in Evolution by Walter Sonneberg March 20 Dr. Edwin G. Conklin made an illustrated communication on his impressions and experiences during a trip to New Zealand and Australia.
The following was ordered to be printed revision of cayuga lake spiders by nathan banks.
In The Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for 1892 pp.
1181 1 gave a list of spiders collected in the vicinity of Ithaca N. Y.
It was the first important local list published in this country.
Twentyfive years have passed since its preparation and twentyfive years in any department of natural history produces many changes.
A number of the new species have proved to be synonyms a number have been redescribed by others since and many species have had either their generic or specific name or even both changed since then.
It is the purpose of this paper to briefly review these changes and to give a few notes and figures of such forms as seem to have escaped collection in recent years.
The arrangement is the same as in the original work.
Species not mentioned are unchanged.
DRASSIDE.
Micaria formicoides.
This is a dark specimen of M. longipes with the femora darker than usual.
Prosthesima rufula.
Goes in Zelotes.
Prosthesima frigida.
Goes in genus Zelotes.
Prosthesima immaculata  Zelotes rufula Bks.
Prosthesima blanda.
Belongs to genus Zelotes.
Prosthesima atra.
Belongs in Zelotes.
Prosthesima depressa.
Belongs in Zelotes.
Prosthesima ecclesiastica.
Belongs in Herpyllus.
Prosthesima minima  Zelotes blanda Bks.
An immature specimen.
Poecilochroa bilineata.
Belongs iii Cesonia.
Gnaphosa brumahs.
This is immature and evidently G. conspersa Thor.
Gnaphosa humilis  Gnaphosa brumalis Thor.
No1 quite mature.
Drassus saccatus.
Now known as D. neglectus Keys.
Drassus humilis  D. neglectus Keys.
CLUBIONIDE.
Thargalia agilis  Castianeira cingulata Koch.
Thargalia perplexa  Castianeira longipalpis Htz.
Thargalia fallax  Castianeira descripta Htz.
Thargalia bivittata.
Is known as Castianeira cingulata Koch.
Thargalia crocata.
Is Castianeira descripta the true T. crocata is a southern form.
Clubiona obesa.
This is C. crassipalpis Keys. but I believe also Hentz's species.
Clubiona crassipalpis.
The female whose vulva is figured is C. canadensis Emer.
Clubiona canadensis.
These are young of C. obesa Htz.
Clubiona pygmaea.
Appears to be the female of C. minuta Emer. this name however is preoccupied by Xicolet for a Chilian species.
Clubiona rubra  C abbottii.
Clubiona lenta.
Related to C. pygmaza but I think distinct the head and mandibles are not as dark as in that species the eye region is broad as in C. latifrons Emer.
I have seen another specimen from Washington D. C but do not yet know the male.
Clubiona americana  C. riparia Koch.
C. americana given to replace the preoccupied C. ornata Emer.
Clubiona excepta  C. pallens Htz.
Anyphsena incerta.
Now known as Gayenna celer Hte.
Anyphsena saltabunda.
Belongs to Gayenna.
Phrurolithus palustris  P. alarius Hentz non Emer..
Phrurolithus alarius Bks.
det.
 P. borealis Emer.
Agrceca ornata.
A. repens Emer.
is a synonym.
AGALENIDE.
Coelotes medioinalis.
Now placed in genus Coras.
Coelotes fidelis.
This is related to C. urbanus Keys. but in male palpi the patella is not so prolonged at tip and with two instead of one teeth a figure is given PI.
X fig.
8.
Coelotes longitarsus.
Is now called C. calcaratus Keys.
Coelotes altilis.
These large females may be the females of C. hybridus Emer. otherwise they are new a new figure of the epigynum is given PI.
XI fig.
24.
Coelotes lineatus.
Based on an immature male and doubtless belongs to one of the other forms quite probably C. calcaratus Keys.
Coelotes gnavus.
This may be the same as the female C. longitarsus Emer. but his male is another form C. calcaratus it however is much larger than Cicurinia arcuata more heavily marked more geniculate mandibles the epigynum is figured PI.
XI fig.
22.
Cicurina complicata.
Is C. arcuata Keys. a large female.
Cicurina creber  C. brevis Emer.
The latter was described as a Tegenaria.
Cicurina placida.
Related to C. brevis but a size larger the posterior middle portion of the vulva is more narrow than in C. brevis a figure is given PL XI fig.
26.
Hahnia bimaoulata  H. agilis Keys.
DICTYNIDJ.
Dictyna frondea.
An immature female probably of D. foliaced.
Diotyna oruciata
One female does not now show any differences in markings from D. foliacca but the vulvar openings are very much farther apart.
Diotyna minuta.
Two males scarcely two millimeters long belong here.
Dictyna foxii.
Belongs in genus Prodalia.
Dictyna volupis  D. foliacea Hentz.
Dictyna maxima.
Based on one female whose large size and dorsal markings do not fit any other described form.
Later I took males that appear to belong here they are three millimeters long and the tibia of palpus is long curved and with a very short projection at base as in figure PLX fig.
15.
Dictyna decorata.
Only females which although more strongly marked than usual are probably D. foliacea D. volupis at least I have seen no males that might indicate another species.
Dictyna dubia  D. frondea Emer.
Amaurobius silvestris.
I consider it is A. bennetti Blk.
THERIDIIDJE.
Mimetus epeiroides  M. interfector Htz.
Steatoda marmorata.
Belongs in Enoplognatha.
Steatoda guttata.
Belongs in Crustulina.
Steatoda triangulosa.
Belongs in Teutana.
Pholcomma hirsuta.
Belongs to Ancylorrhanis.
Ceratinella similis  C. emertoni Cb.
Ceratinella atriceps.
The only specimen I now have is the Exechophysis plumalis Crosby.
Ceratinella moesta.
This belongs to the restricted genus Lophocarenum.
Ceratinella placida.
This is related to C. emertoni but I believe distinct the tibial process is much more slender the style longer.
I give figures of other views of the palpus PI.
X figs.
6 11.
Ceratinella formosa.
This is peculiar in the position of the shield and for it I later made the genus Idionella it belongs to the true Theridiidae.
Ceratinella annulipes.
I made a new genus Ceratiiops for this it belongs to the true Theridiidae.
I have seen it also from Poughkeepsie N. Y. Ceratinopsis interpres.
Now placed in a separate genus Notionella.
Ceratinopsis nigriceps.
Not nigriceps but the species Emerton later described as C. auriculatus.
Ceratinopsis frontatus.
Belongs to the genus Maso and a description and figures are given by Emerton under name of Caseola herbicola.
Grammonota ornata.
Probably correct but the abdomen is shrunken now and does not show the markings.
Grammonota venusta.
Probably the female of Tmeticus tridentatus but the epigynum PI.
XI fig.
18 shows the ridges more divaricate than usual possibly the female of some allied species.
Spiropalpus spiralis.
Now considered to belong to genus Cornicularia.
Cornicularia communis.
Probably correct but the epigynum does not project quite as far as in other specimens.
Cornicularia pallida.
An immature female which agrees in markings and structure with adults from other localities.
Cornicularia formosa  Gonatium rubena Blk.
Cornicularia placida.
A female Cornicularia and probably the female of some described species the figure I gave of the epigynum is not broad enough I give a new one PI.
XI fig.
19.
The posterior median eyes are scarcely their diameter apart and as close to the plainly larger posterior side eye.
Lophomma cristata.
A female may belong to this species or to a Lophocarenum the vulva PI.
XI fig.
29 is a broad opening some distance in front of the rima.
Sternum triangular the hind coxse separated by less than their diameter tarsi 1 a little shorter than metatarsi P. M. E. scarcely diameter apart much further from the subequal P. S. E. Lophocarenum castaneum.
Is a Diplocephalus I think the head shows no trace of elevation in these females  the sternum is broad and the hind coxae separated by more than width tarsi I much shorter than metatarsi I eyes of posterior row subequal and less than diameter apart PL XI fig.
28.
Lophocarenum tristis.
Female of some species probably known in male and may be L. castaneum the eyes of posterior row are subequal the P. M. E. about diameter apart and a little further from the S. E. sternum as broad as long hind coxae separated by less than their diameter.
Lophocarenum florens.
Belongs to Hypselistes.
Lophocarenum unimaculatum.
Evidently related to L. florens which is now placed in Hypselistes I have seen no further specimens but the peculiar marking will distinguish it.
Lophocarenum miniatum.
This is a Cornicularia and apparently a dark female of  '.
di recta Cb.
PI.
XI fig.
23.
Lophocarenum venustum  Gonalium rubens Blk.
Lophocarenum montiferum.
Determination correct it now goes in Diplocephalus.
Lophocarenum parvum.
Is L. erigonoides Emer.
 as in L. formosum the tibial process has a deep incision near base not shown in Emerton's figures it is also probably Erigom percisa Keys it belongs to genus Diplocephalus.
Lophocarenum exiguum.
Is a Diplocephalus and Emerton has given a description and figures in 1911 from a New England specimen.
Lophocarenum spiniferum.
Determination correct but now placed in Diplocephalus.
Lophocarenum crenatum.
Determination correct it now goes in Diplocephalus.
Lophocarenum crenatoideum.
Is Diplocephalus crenatum a d not fully colored and apparently longer cephalothorax.
Lophocarenum erigonoides.
Is a Diplocephalus the male is an immature specimen and the female is also probably not mature or else belongs to a different species.
Lophocarenum formosum.
This is L. erigonoides I believe although the palpal organ does not fit Emerton's figure in some parts.
I think it is also the Erigone percisa of Keyserling his figure of palpus is not quite right but the epigynum is the same as I have figured for formosum PI.
X fig.
4.
Lophocarenum arvensis  Comicularia communis Emer.
Lophocarenum longior.
This is apparently a female Comicularia and probably of C. directa at least I find no differences.
Tmeticus unicorn.
This will go in the genus Delorrhipis but is very different from D. monoceros.
A new description is given by Crosby.
Tmeticus trilobatus.
Goes in Gonglydiuni.
Tmeticus obscurus.
The tarsi of palpi gone but from the tibiae it is quite probably T. phlmosus which has since been taken near Ithaca.
Tmeticus flaveolus.
Unchanged a description with figures is given by Emerton in 1909 from New England material.
Tmeticus luxuosus.
This belongs to Ceratinopsis and is the species described by Emerton in 1909 as C. alternatus.
Tmeticus rusticus.
I cannot identify with any described form  I figure the long slender hook PL X fig.
10.
Tmeticus pallidus.
Unchanged but goes in Gonglylidium.
Tmeticus humilis  T. plumosus Emer.
Now in the genus Gonglyidium.
TmeticuS moestUS  Gonglydium trilobatus Enicr.
Tmeticus debilis.
Unchanged a description with figures is given by Emerton in 1909 from New England specimens.
Tmeticus palustris  Gongylidium trilobatus Em.
Tmeticus distinctus.
I give a new figure of the epigynum PI.
XI fig.
27 this shows a great resemblance to that of T. bidentatum Emer.
which Emerton figures in 1909 and probably it is that species.
Crosby gives some notes under the genus Tapinocyba.
Tmeticus maculatus.
Crosby has given some notes on it probably the female of T. probatus Emerton in 1909 gave a new figure of the epigynum which shows two lobes as in my figure.
Tmeticus minutus.
Crosby has given notes under the genus Gongylidiellum a new figure of palpus is here given PI.
X fig.
5.
Tmeticus gnavus.
Xew figures are given of the palpus PI.
X figs.
3 7 it is in the trilobatus group.
Erigone longipalpis.
More properly placed under E. persimilis Cb.
Linyphia communis.
I place this in Frontinella Cambr.
Linyphia clathrata.
This belongs to Neriene.
Linyphia phrygiana var.
annulipes.
This variation in color is hardly worthy of a name.
Linyphia variabilis.
Belongs to Neriene.
Linyphia conferta.
Belongs to Neriene Emerton considers the true conferta to be a southern form and has described this as Linyphia maculata.
Stemonyphantes bucculentus.
Is the type of the genus Bolyphantes.
Diplostyla pallida.
This is a very pale specimen of nigrina.
Diplostyla alboventris.
Unchanged I figure the hook PI.
XI fig.
21.
Helophora insignis.
Is considered to be a true Linyphia.
Bathyphantes minuta.
Belongs to Lepthyphantes.
Bathyphantes nebulosa.
Belongs to Lepthyphantes.
Bathyphantes alpina.
These are B. zebra not so strongly colored as normal.
Bathyphantes subalpina.
Determination correct.
Bathyphantes decorata.
Very similar to B. zebra but smaller paler and few if any silvery spots on the basal part of the dorsum of abdomen the male palpus differs a little in the hook and in shape of the outer process which is long and pointed and with a comb of long hairs above a new figure is given PL X fig.
13.
Bathyphantes argenteomaculata.
These are B. zebra not quite mature.
Bathyphantes pallida.
I cannot place these females the prominent epigynum is even more protuberant than figured possibly near to Tmeticus brunneus but more than onehalf smaller.
Bathyphantes sabulosa.
These are B. zebra.
Bathyphantes umbratilis.
Not quite mature female possibly of Microneta olivacea since the palpi are enlarged.
Bathyphantes complicata.
Not this species but from the male palpus I cannot place it with any described form though it may be near Microneta longitubus.
Bathyphantes unimaculata.
Related to B. complicata the palpus has a broad band obliquely across as in that species but the tube is slender and sharp.
Bathyphantes inornata.
The palpus figured is B. angulata but others in lot are B. unimaculata.
Bathyphantes tristis.
The median rounded part of the epigynum shows two cavities on the posterior edge.
Probably the female of some described Microneta or Bathyphantes PI.
XI fig.
17.
Microneta latens   quinquedentata Emer.
Microneta palustris.
This is a Pedanostethus I give a figure of the other side of palpus PI.
XI.
fig.
16  this docs not seem to agree with any described species the epigynum of the females PL XI fig.
'25 collected after description was made agrees very well with one of Emerton's figures of riparius.
Microneta luteola.
I give a figure of other side of palpus PI.
X fig.
2 it were probably better in Bathyphantes and related to B.calcaratus Emer.
 there are however no marks on the basal part of the abdomen but several taint whitish transverse spots toward tip.
Microneta flaveola.
This is probably only a form of Bathyphantes angulata the hook however is not as heavy as in that species and there are several structures not shown on Emerton's figure.
In the original figure a part of the median bilobed process was mistaken for a continuation of the upper limb of the hook PL X fig.
9.
Microneta complicata.
A figure is given of the back of the palpus PL X fig.
14 it is related probably to Bathyphantes intricata Emer. but distinct.
Microneta minutissima.
The size given was a little too small it is about 1.1 mm.
long PL X fig.
12.
Microneta frontata.
This is a Pedanostethus and it agrees well in size color and epigynum with what Emerton figures as his female P. pumilus and I believe it is the same.
Microneta gigantea.
This appears to be Tmeticus brunneus Emer. the female of which was figured in 1909.
The low broad head and small A. M. E. would seem to indicate a special genu.
Microneta distincta.
Perhaps better placed in Tmeticus.
I give new figures PL X fig.
1 of the palpus apparently not otherwise known.
EPEIRIDiE.
Epeira cinerea  E. cavatica Keys.
Epeira sclopetaria.
Is same as E. sericata CI.
which has page precedence.
Epeira patagiata.
Is same as E. ocellata CI.
which has page precedence.
Epeira strix.
Has older name in E. foliata Koch.
Epeira marmorea.
Is the same as E. gigas Leach.
Epeira insularis  E. gigas Leach.
Epeira labyrinthea.
Is considered to form a separate genus Metepeira.
Epeira placida.
Belongs to genus Mangora.
Epeira gibberosa.
Belongs to genus Mangora.
Epeira parvula  E. prompta Htz.
Epeira stellata.
Belongs in genus Plectana.
Epeira ithaca.
Is young of E. gigas Leach.
Singa maculata.
Name preoccupied changed to S. truncata.
Acrosoma rugosa  A. gracilis Walck.
Argiope riparia  A. aurantia Lucas.
Argiope transversa  A. trifasciata.
Argyroepeira hortorum.
Goes in genus Leucauge.
TBTRAGNATHIDE.
Tetragnatha vermiformis.
In genus Eugnatha.
Tetragnatha straminea.
In genus Eugnatha.
Tetragnatha caudata.
Belongs in genus Eucta.
Tetragnatha pallida.
The specific name was preoccupied and changed by F. 0.
P. Cambridge to pallescens.
McCook has published a description it goes in genus Eugnatha.
Pachygnatha brevis.
This is the real P. xanthostoma of Koch.
Pachygnatha xanthostoma.
This is the P. xanthostoma of McCook but not of Koch I propose to call it P. mccooki n.n.
THOMISIDJ.
Xysticus stomachosus.
Probably is X. ferox Htz.
Xysticus feroculus  X. trigultatus Keys.
Xysticus distinctus.
This is apparently a specimen of X. stomachosus recently transformed in which the parts of the vulva show more distinctly than usual.
Xysticus brunneus.
This is the female of the true X. limbatus Keys.
Xysticus crudelis  X. brunneus Bks.
Xysticus transversus  X. stomachosus Keys.
Xysticus lentus.
This is the male of gulosus previously not described.
Xysticus nervosus.
Unchanged Emerton has given additional description and figures.
Xysticus formosusUnchanged Emerton has given additional description and figures.
Xysticus limbatus.
Unchanged it is a male of the true limbatus of Keyserling not the limbatus of Emerton.
Xysticus quadrilineatus  X. luctans Koch.
Xysticus maculatus.
Immature specimens probably of X. stomachosus.
Oxyptila georgiana  O. americana Bks.
Oxyptila conspurcata.
Unchanged the 0. georgiana Keys is the same species.
Misumena rosea  Misumessus asperatus Htz.
Misumena georgiana.
I consider this to be the M. celer of Hentz.
Misumena foliata  Misumessus asperatus Htz.
Misumena placida  Misumessus asperatus Htz.
Philodromus vulgaris  P. pernix Blk.
Philodromus prselustris Immature specimens of P. pernix Blk.
Philodromus signifer.
This I believe is the same as Ph.
expositus of Keyserling Ph.
maculatus Blk..
Philodromus gracilis  Ph.
pernix Blk.
Philodromus unicolor  P. infuscatus Keys.
Philodromus ornatus.
Unchanged Emerton has given a description and figures.
Philodromus placidus.
Unchanged related to Ph.
ornatus.
Philodromus minutus.
In wellmarked specimens the legs are lined behind with black the hind pair on front edge I think that Ph.
brevis Emer.
is the male of this species I have taken P. brevis at Ithaca.
Philodromus minusculus.
This closely resembles Ph.
ornatus and it is probably that species but its very much smaller size induced me to describe it I have no other specimens as small.
Philodromus exilis.
This differs from the other small species of the genus in elongate abdomen I believe the Ph.
bidentatus Emer.
is the male of this species.
Philodromus rufus.
Unchanged Emerton gives figures and description under name of P. pictus.
Philodromus laticeps.
This immature male is Ph.
pernix Blk.
Philodromus aureolus.
These are young specimens in appearance they agree with Ph.
lineatus.
Emer. but one cannot be sure without adults.
LYCOSID.E Lycosa nidicola  L. helluo Walck.
Lycosa communis  L. avida Walck.
Lycosa nigroventris.
This is the male of L. frondicola.
Lycosa similis  L. pratensis Emer.
Lycosa rufiventris  .
avara Kej Lycosa humilis Schvsogyna gracilis Bks.
Lycosa polita  Trochosa rubicunda Keys.
Lycosa scutulata  L. rabida Walck.
Lycosa vulpina  L. aspersa Htz.
Lycosa crudelis  L. hdluo Walck.
Lycosa immaculata  L. aspersa Htz.
Lycosa exitiosa  L. aspersa Htz.
cfLycosa oblonga  L aspersa Htz.
Pardosa pallida.
Name preoccupied and changed by Chamberlin to P. emertoni bu1 I think it is P. distincta Blackw.
Pardosa annulata.
Is the female of P. minima Keys.
Pardosa venusta  P. lapidicina Emw.
Pardosa brunnea.
Is P. glacialis Thor. and I think is P. modica Blackw.
Pardosa gracilis.
This is a Schizogyna Lycosa relucens of Montgomery is the same form.
Pardosa albopatella.
Now known as P. minima Keys.
Pardosa nigropalpis.
Is P. flavipes Keys. and I think also P. canadensis Blackw.
Pardosa montana  P. xerampelina Keys.
Pardosa moesta.
Chamberlin has given a new description and figure in his Revision of the Lycosidae.
P. diffusa Em.
is apparently the male of this species.
Pardosa obsoleta  Plapidicina Enier.
Pirata montana.
These females are not montana but agree with aspirans Chamber.
Pirata montanoides.
Female runs out to P. aspirans and probably is that species but the figure of the vulva of that species shows the tip flattened out instead of bent down as normally the case so it appears different.
P. humicoliis is also close the darker colors are of no specific value.
at least not in allied P. minuta PI.
XI fig.
20.
Pirata agilis  montana Emer.
6 Pirata exigua  Pminuta Emcr.
A very dark female with blackbanded legs and dark sternum the vulva seems to be the same as in the pale form.
Pirata minuta.
A pale female with wholly pale unbanded legs and pale sternum.
Aulonia aurantia.
This is an immature Pardosa.
Ocyale undata.
Goes in the genus Pisaurina.
Dolomedes sexpunctatus.
Young specimens of D. tenebrosus.
Dolomedes scriptus.
Young specimens of D. tenebrosus.
ATTIDiE.
Phidippus mystaceus  P. electus Koch not Hcntz's myslaceus.
Phidippus albomaculatus  Pelectus Koch.
Phidippus rauterbergi  P. audax Htz.
Phidippus mccooki  P. castrensis Koch.
Phidippus tripunctatus  P. audax Htz.
Phileeus princeps  Phidippus pvinami Peck.
Philaeus militaris.
Belongs to genus Dendryphantes.
Dendryphantes capitatus  D. ocfavus Htz.
Dendryphantes elegans.
Belongs to genus Tutelina.
Dendryphantes flavus.
Specimens immature but agree in markings with adults.
Dendryphantes insignis  D. octavus Htz.
Dendryphantes ornatus  D. octavus Htz.
Dendryphantes exiguus  D. flavipedes Peck.
Specimens lack the dark mark on femora normally present the female had not been described.
Icius formosus.
Belongs to Marpissa and is possibly the unknown male of M. binus.
Icius albovittatus  Dendryphantes militaris.
Icius palmarum.
Is now in the genus Wala.
Icius mitratus.
 Also belongs to Wala.
Icius harti.
Is .
fuliginous Blackw.
Icius moestUS  li niliiiihunles mililari.
Htz.
Icius elegans.
A young specimen probably of Wala.
Eris octavus  Dendryphantes octants Htz.
Eris nervosus.
Belongs in the genus Zygoballus.
Hasarius hoyi  Pellenes falcata Clerck.
Habrocestum latens  Pellenes falcata CI.
Habrocestum coecatum  Pellenes boreal is Bks.
Habrocestum peregrinum.
iocs in the genus Pellenes.
Habrocestum splendens  Pellenes decorus Blackw.
Saitis pulex.
Is kept now in Habrocestum.
Astia vittata.
Now known as Mcevia niger.
Epiblemum scenicum.
Belongs in genus Salticus.
Admestina wheeleri.
I have elsewhere 1 shown this to be tibialis of Koch.
Marptusa familiaris.
I have elsewhere 1 shown this to be Marpissa undata De leer.
Marptusa rupicola.
I believe it distinct from familiaris undata it also occurs at Great Falls Va. under pieces of rocks.
Synageles picata.
Is now placed in genus Peckhamia.
Explanation of Plates X and XL Plate X.
 Fig.
1.
 Micronela diMncta palpus.
Fig.
2.
 Mi rum la luteola palpus.
Fig.
3.
 Tmeticus gnavus palpus.
Fig.
1.
Lophocarenum formosum palpus.
Fig.
5.
Tmeticus mi mil us palpus.
Fig.
.
 Ceratinella placida top of palpus.
Fig.
7.
 Tmeticus gnavus palpus.
Fig.
8.
Coelotes fidelis tibia and patella.
Fig.
'.'.
Microneta flaveola palpus.
Ent.
News IX 1 12 1898.
Fig.
10.
 Tmeticus rusticus hook.
Fig.
11.
 Ceratinella placida palpus.
Fig.
12.
 Microneta minutissima palpus.
Fig.
13.
 Bathyphantes decora palpus.
Fig.
14.
 Microneta complicate palpus.
Fig.
15.
 Dictyna maxima palpus.
Plate XI.
 Fig.
16.
 Microneta palustris palpus.
Fig.
17.
 Bathyphantes tristis head.
Fig.
18.
 Grammonota venusta vulva.
Fig.
19.
 Cornicularia placida vulva.
Fig.
20.
 Pirata montanoides two vulvae.
Fig.
21.
 Diplostyla alboventris hook.
Fig.
22.
 Ccelotc gnavus' vulva.
Fig.
23.
 Lophocarenum miniatum vulva.
Fig.
24.
 Coelotes altilis vulva.
Fig.
25.
 Microneta palustris vulva.
Fig.
26.
 Cicurina placida vulva.
Fig.
27.
 Tmeticus distinctus vulva.
Fig.
28.
 Lophocarenum castaneum vulva.
Fig.
29.
 Lophomma cristata vulva.
PLATE X.
BANKS CAYUGA LAKE SPIDERS.
PLATE XI.
BANKS CAYUGA LAKE SPIDERS.
April 18.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
Thirtyfive persons present.
The deaths of the following members were announced Emlen Physick March 21 1916.
Charles Chauncey April 3 1916.
Norton Downs April 15 1916.
The Publication Committee announced the presentation of a paper entitled ' ' Contributions to the Anatomy of Python reticulatus Schneider by Joseph C. Thompson April 8 1916.
Temperature and the Activities of Animals.
 Merkel H. Jacobs Ph.D. remarked that the continued existence of living organisms is possible within a range of temperature of the order of magnitude of possibly one onethousandth of that encountered in the universe.
The majority of the activities of organisms occur within the region from slightly below 0 C. to about 45 C. For individual species the range is usually less  sometimes as little as 15 or even 6 C. A certain number of forms can exist for a short time in a more or less inactive condition through a range of 350 C. or more.
Even within the natural range for a species the effects of different temperatures is very striking.
A rise of 40 C. may cause at least a 16fold increase in the rate of most of the chemical reactions underlying the various manifestations of life.
Since different processes are accelerated unequally by such a rise and since the point of equilibrium in reversible reactions is changed the effect on the organism aa whole may be qualitative as well as quantitative.
The use of high temperatures has been a favorable means of securing strikingmodifications of existing forms of life.
A possible case of a heritable variation produced in this way is the threevacuoled race of Paramecium which appeared sixteen months ago in the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania and which has remained constant ever since.
Different organisms are differently situated with respect to the daily and yearly changes of temperature they are called upon to meet.
Many marine forms are subject to an average change of less than 1 C. a day and 2 or 3 a year.
On the other hand terrestrial forms and those living in small bodies of fresh water frequently endure a daily range of 30 C. or more.
The rotifer Philodina roseola is subjected to especially severe conditions.
Living in small pools 7 whose temperature in the springtime may drop almost to the freezing point at night and rise in the sunlight 10 C. above the air temperature it frequently passes in the space of two or three hours from an arctic to a tropical environment and vice versa.
In general the forms that in their natural environment have to meet sudden temperature changes show greater powers of acclimatization than those living under more constant external conditions.
A comparison of the powers of rapid acclimatization to high temperature of Paramecium or the tadpole which lives in fresh water pools with starfish larvae which live in the ocean shows striking differences in this respect.
Many of the terrestrial animals have developed the power of maintaining a constant body temperature under widely varying external conditions.
This power however is insufficient in most cases to make possible a strictly worldwide distribution.
Man is able to supplement natural with artificial means of temperature control.
Even he however is considerably affected by external temperatures especially high ones.
One factor in producing this result appears to be the effect of such temperatures on the circulation.
The practical result of a more complete control of temperature by man would be the opening up of the enormously fertile tropical regions of the earth.
The following were ordered to be printed 
