THE ANATOMY OF AN EOLID, CHIOR^RA DALLI.
BY HAROLD HEATH, In 1852 Gould^ described a species of nudibranch, dredged in three fathoms of water at Fort Discovery, Puget Sound, establishing for it a new genus, Chiorcera, whose translated diagnosis is as follows: Body limaciform, head very large, pedunculate, semiglobose; oral face ventral, discoidal; mouth longitudinal, surrounded by a double series of cirri; cephalic tentacles foliate, retractile; branchial folds fan-shaped, arranged in a series on each side; genital opening removed from the almost dorsal anus."
The species is further characterized by a pearly and whitish-colored body finely reticulated with orange.
The cirri likewise are orange colored, and the cephalic tentacles are capable of retraction within a special sheath.
The total length of the body is five and one-fourth inches.
On the 26th of July, 1913, I collected a number of specimens of what appear to be a new species of this genus in Rose Inlet on the eastern shore of Dall Island in southeastern Alaska.
Two days later a few other individuals were taken in Hecate Strait near Hetta on the western coast of Prince of Wales Island.
To Mr. W. F. Thompson I am indebted for additional material collected at Echo Harbor and Sewell Inlet on the eastern coast of the Queen Charlotte Islands.
The present species appears to be largely confined to the littoral zone, as the larger number of specimens were collected on algae in shallow water.
Nevertheless, a considerable number were found swimming near the surface, in some instances fully three hundred yards from shore.
As they crawl about the great head is frequently contracted with considerable violence, possibly for the purpose of dislodging small organisms which serve as food.
Sections of the alimentary canal, however, show it to be entirely empty, in all of the individuals critically examined, with the exception of one containing a few diatoms, so that we have little information indeed concerning the usual bill of fare.
In the act of swimming the head is contracted as much as possible and the body is strongl}flexed from side to side.
Large numbers of eggs were found attached to "eel grass" and imbedded in gelatinous, spirally wound folds after the fashion of manv nudibranchs.
1 U. S. Exploring Expedition, vol.
12, pp.
309-311.
The following are the measurements of the largest specimen: total length three inches, diameter of head one and one-half inches, greatest width of body one-half inch, greatest width of foot onefourth inch, greatest height of body three-fourths inch.
No pigment is visible in the skin of living animals, though the body wall has a milky appearance and is sufficiently transparent to show the light blue and reddish viscera within.
External Features.
— The body (PL XI, fig.
1) comprises two distinct divisions, the head and body proper.
The head presents the appearance of a low vault or cowl provided with two dorsal tentacles, two sets of marginal tentacles and on its under surface bears the mouth.
Unlike CMorcera leonina, the dorsal tentacles are not retractile, and in preserved material are plain, muscular, foliaceous outgrowths.
Gould states that the tentacles of C. leonina bear on their anterior margins "an opaque, whitish papilla, presenting something of a spiral or lamellar structure."
Nothing of the kind has been found to exist in the present species.
The marginal head tentacles form two series, an outer set comprising from fifty to seventy-five large, slender processes, and an inner fringe formed of much smaller outgrowths of approximately double the number.
Each of these cirri is provided with a nerve (PI.
XI, fig.
2) and gives evidence of being a tactile organ, though observations along this line were very incomplete.
The mouth presents the appearance of a longitudinal slit (PI.
XI, fig.
1) placed near the posterior margin of the head, and therefore in close proximity to the anterior margin of the foot.
Its posterior border may be said to be formed by the free border of the head, which here forms a deep angle usually devoid of the larger type of tentacle.
Laterally and anteriorly the oral opening is surrounded by prominent, swollen lips.
In living and in certain preserved specimens, the head region for some distance beyond the lips forms a prominent swollen area, occasionally thrown into temporary ridges.
Sections show this area to be highly vascular.
Unfortunately, more pressing duties made it impossible to make careful observations on living animals, and an exact description of the normal appearance of this area is now impossible.
It may be added that in Gould's figure of C. leonina the mouth occupies a central position beneath the cephalic vault or cowl, w^hose tentaculate margin encompasses it at a considerable distance.
The body, separated from the head by a distinct cleft forming a neck, is roughly conical in form, and ventrally is traversed throughout its entire extent by a slender foot.
Dorsally it carries a ninnber of lappets in two longitudinal series attached along the junction of the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the body.
All of the specimens in hand were preserved in formaldehyde, and while this served admirably to preserve the general appearance and proportion of parts, practically all of the lappets were found to be detached when the material was unpacked for study.
It is certain, however, that each lappet is attached to the body by a slender stalk, and is leaflike in form.
The only doubtful point concerns their exact number.
Judging by the slight circular scars where they were attached to the body, there appear to be five on the left side and four on the right, the place of the second largest one on the right being occupied by the anal opening.
In a few large specimens there are traces of an additional, very small pair near the posterior end of the body.
Each is penetrated by ramifications of the liver branches and by a system of blood sinuses.
The genital openings are on the right side of the body in the neck region, while the anal opening is far removed on the dorsal side of the animal.
Internal Anatomy.
— In this species no distinct visceral cavity or spacious primary body cavity exists, the various systems of organs being surrounded by a loose meshwork of connective tissue and muscle fibers with the intercommunicating spaces serving as blood sinuses.
Dissection accordingly is a comparatively simple matter, and the different systems of organs, especially the nervous, have been traced out in considerable detail.
A description of each of these will now be given.
Considering first the digestive system, we find that the posterior border of the snout is deeply cleft along the midline, and, lacking the larger tentacles at this point, forms the ventral border of the mouth opening.
The remaining margin is fashioned into thick, swollen, glandular lips united anteriorly, and of such length that the mouth appears as a longitudinal slit three or four millimeters in length.
The esophagus or pharynx (PI.
XI, fig.
4) is a comparatively short tube, and owing to the ventral position of the mouth the dorsal wall is considerably longer than the ventral.
Immediately beyond the mouth opening the walls are relatively thick and without folds, but as the brain region is approached the inner lining becomes thinner and is thrown into numerous longitudinal folds.
Probably not less than a dozen digestive tracts were either sectioned or opened carefully, but in no instance was there a trace of jaws, radula or distinct salivary glands.
Posterior to the central nervous system the lining of the pharynx becomes smoothed out before uniting with the smooth-walled stomach.
Externally there are no noteworthy features to be noted in this section of the gut.
It may be said, however, that the stomach is somewhat shorter than the pharynx and of considerably greater diameter.
On the left side of the stomach are two sac-like dilations and one on the left, all of which are in communication with ducts from the digestive gland.
In sections the lining epithelium of each of these sacs is seen to be thrown into a few high folds that are more or less continuous with lower longitudinal ridges extending throughout the main hepato-pancreatic duct.
As noted previously, the ventral gastric surface is longer in an antero-posterior direction than the dorsal, and the intestine is thus inclined dorsally, forming a distinct dorsal cleft between the stomach and intestine.
Beyond this point the gut proceeds posteriorly, sinking slightly toward the ventral surface of the body, and also curving to the right until it reaches a point on the right side of the animal near the middle of the body.
Here it curves dorsally, and expanding considerably opens to the surface.
The intestinal epithelium is fashioned into several folds, visible externally through the thin wall, of which one, the dorsal, is highly developed and continues like a typhlosole throughout the entire length of the gut.
In preserved material the yellowish digestive gland is seen through the translucent body wall in the form of a dense mat generally distributed throughout the body, penetrating the lappets and extending into the snout as far forward as the tentacles.
As can be seen in the figures, the follicles are united by an extensive system of ducts, which finally communicate with the stomach by means of one of the three openings noted previousl3^ The circulatory system can be disposed of in a few words, as the sinuses are unusually delicate and difficult to follow.
The pericardium (PI.
XIII, fig.
13), situated anterior to the rectum, is a spacious thin-walled sac, with the ventral and posterior surfaces largely concealed by a mass of excretory tubules.
The heart comprises an auricle and ventricle with their longitudinal axes directed in a dorsoventral direction.
The aorta, leaving the dorsal margin of the pericardial cavity, extends forward and soon disappears.
On the other hand, the sinuses entering the auricle have been traced into the kidney and to a much less degree into the reproductive system and liver.
The kidney (PI.
XIII, fig.
13) lies on the dorsal side of the body, immediately above the anterior half of the hermaphroditic gland.
In two specimens it was relatively thin and sheetlike, while in half a dozen other cases it occupied practically all of the space between the ovotestis and the body wall.
As may be seen in fig.
13, the most con.spicuous feature of the excretory system is a long and slender, thin-w^alled reservoir, somewhat crescent-shaped in lateral view.
The form, however, is more or less irregular, owing to great numbers of diverticula springing from its surface.
Each diverticulum divides several times, the number of divisions corresponding roughly to its diameter, until it finally breaks up into a number of thin-walled, transparent, blind-ended tubes [comprising the major portion of the kidney.
From the central and most elevated portion of the main reservoir a wide cylindrical duct arises, which, narrowdng as it pursues a course dorsall}^, opens upon the surface of the body on the left side of the anal opening.
For a portion of the distance this canal is in contact with the rectum, and the excretory and anal openings are accordingly very close together.
As indicated by the drawing (fig.
13), the ureter bears several excretory diverticula, and becomes muscular and non-glandular only in the neighborhood of the external opening.
The reno-pericardial canal likewise is borne on the dorsally directed ureter in the form of a short, inconspicuous tube, terminating in much folded, ciliated nephrostome.
The reproductive system forms a conspicuous and compact mass in the posterior half of the body (PI.
XII, figs.
6, 8, 9).
Of the various component elements, the gonad, occupying the posterior half of the visceral cavity, is the largest and presents the appearance of a slender conical organ comprising vast numbers of lobules.
In section each of these is seen to be composed of several short acini communicating near the excurrent duct with a common chamber.
Spermatozoa are developed in the more central acini, while those more externally placed contain ova only.
From each lobule of the gonad a slender duct arises, unites with a corresponding duct from some other lobule, and these unite with other and larger tubes, until finally the resulting main duct, the hermaphroditic canal, is formed that courses along the entire ventral face of the gonad.
At the anterior border of the gonad it expands perceptibly, and in the form of a yellowish, smooth-walled structure undergoes a few twists, and upon decreasing its diameter divides into two branches, the oviduct and vas deferens, respectively.
The oviduct (Ov), the more dorsal of the two branches, comprises three main divisions, of which the first is relatively the most slender and forms a highly convoluted mass at the anterior end of the gonad at a somewhat higher level than the remaining elements of the accessory reproductive apparatus.
This first section passes abruptly into the second, which is characterized by a greater diameter, much more highly developed muscular walls, and a more open arrangement of the coils.
Near its union with the third division, comprising the albumen and mucous glands, it communicates with a slender seminal receptacle (Sr), empty in all of the dozen specimens examined.
The mucous gland (Mu) is considerably larger than the albumen, w^ith relatively smooth, thin walls thrown into gentle folds internally.
The albumen gland ( Al) , on the other hand, is externally folded to a conspicuous degree, especially in its distal half.
It communicates at its base with the mucous gland, and the secretory products from both make their way by a common canal which unites with the main section of the oviduct close to the external reproductive opening.
The vas deferens (Vd) enters almost immediately a compact gland, possibly functioning as a prostate, by means of several slender ducts which communicate in turn with numerous blind, finger-shaped hollow processes (Pa).
Sections show these follicles to be composed of large, highly glandular cells, from many of which the secretion is in the act of escaping in the form of a finely granular colorless product.
In some instances the hermaphroditic duct and the adjacent section of the vas deferens contain multitudes of spermatozoa; none occur in the supposed prostate.
Beyond the prostate gland the vas deferens proceeds as a uniformly slender, much convoluted tube located immediately in front of the prostate.
Distally it opens into the penis, a thick-walled, twisted structure communicating with the exterior by means of a pore immediately anterior to that of the female reproductive opening.
A retractor muscle attaches to the base of the penis, and extending posteriorly divides, each half becoming inserted in the body wall about opposite the lateral border of the foot.
The central nervous system, presenting the highly compact appearance of the seolids in general, rests upon the dorsal surface of the esophagus or pharynx a short distance in front of the anterior border of the stomach.
The cerebral ganglia are in close contact along the mid line, and posteriorly are closely united with the pleural ganglia.
The lateral portions of the cerebral moiety are prolonged into short horns.
On each side of the mid line a short connective leads from the posterior border of the cerebral ganglion and unites with a corresponding tentacular ganglion.
Each of these last-named bodies is relatively small and rests in a depression between the cerebral ganglia, and in every specimen carefully examined the left is grooved and is considerably larger than the right.
The pleural ganglia are more or less spherical bodies separated by a shallow depression from the cerebral and by a much deeper constriction from the pedal, which are therefore more clearly defined.
The cerebral ganglia give rise to two or three pairs of nerves whose lettering in the following paragraphs is the same as in the figures.
CI, a nerve to the snout.
In some instances this nerve has an independent origin; in other cases (as in PI.
XI, fig.
2, on the right side) it arises as a branch of C2.
In any event, it soon divides repeatedly, and, so far as traced, forms a plexus, with ganglia at the nodes, that extends over the base of the snout in the middle area.
C2 is a heavy nerve extending through the loose tissue of the snout in the direction of the tentacle.
About the middle of its length it divides, each half with its branches passing to the inside or the outside of the tentacle.
The inner branch, after developing a few fibers, supplying the more median portion of the head, extends forward to the margin of the cowl.
The outer branch, after dividing once or twice, likewise pursues a course to the margin.
At the border of the cowl all of these nerves unite with an irregular nerve lying at the base of and supplying both sets of marginal tentacles.
C3 extends from each cerebral ganglion into the lateral portions of the cowl.
After branching three times the resultant nerves unite with the marginal nerve.
A short distance beyond its point of origin a connective unites C3 with C2.
Cx, a nerve springing from the ventral surface of each cerebral ganglion close to the cerebro-buccal connective (PL XIII, fig.
10).
Extending anteriorly and ventrally, it enters the inferior wall of the esophagus.
There are indications that it anastomoses with some of the nerves developed from the anterior surface of the buccal ganglion, but this has not been conclusively established.
C4, the tentacular nerve, which pursues a direct course from each tentacular ganglion into the tentacle, where it rapidly disappears from view among the dense mass of muscle fibers.
Each otocyst rests upon the dorsal surface of the central nervous system at the junction of the cerebral and pedal ganglion.
In preserved material in surface view it appears as a yellowish, spherical body resting in a shallow cup of black pigmented cells.
No sections of it were made.
Two pairs of nerves, in addition to the two commissures (Pc), arise from the pedal ganglia.
The first of these is — PI, a fairly heavy bundle springing from the side of the ganglion.
Coursing through the dense mat of muscle and connective tissue composing the body wall, it extends posteriorly and ventrally, and divides at the junction of the body and head (PI.
XIII, fig.
11).
The anterior branch supplies the body wall adjacent to the head, and sends a ventrally directed division to join the extensive plexus located in the foot.
The posterior branch is distributed over the antero-lateral body wall, and in some instances also appears to be connected with the pedal plexus, though this has not been established with complete certainty.
P2 is a nerve likewise originating from the lateral surface of the pedal ganglion, but posterior to the foregoing nerve.
Extending laterally and posteriorly, it divides opposite to the stomach into an anterior and posterior branch.
The anterior division supplies the body wall posterior to the area adjacent to the 'external reproductive opening, and, extending to the foot, unites with the pedal plexus.
The posterior branch continues posteriorly to a point about opposite to the level of the vas deferens, where it divides.
The ventral division pursues a fairly direct course to the foot, where it unites with the pedal plexus.
The dorsal branch continues its way along the side of the body to the posterior end of the animal.
Throughout its course it develops at least four connectives which unite with the pedal plexus.
Approximately one-third of its length beyond the point of origin, P2 gives rise to two dorsally directed branches.
The anterior one passes forward and appears to anastomose with nerves from offshoots of x and y (fig.
12) arising from the pleural ganglion.
The posterior branch, a slender nerve, pursues a course posteriorly and dorsally, and more or less parallel with P2 extends to the hinder end of the body.
Throughout its extent it develops four branches, which pass into the dorsal lappets and about the anal opening, since this normally replaces one of the lappets on the right side.
The pedal ganglia are united by two commissures (Pc), the heavier one being anterior.
Four pairs of nerves usually pass out from the pleural ganglia.
In certain cases this may become obscured on one or both sides through fusion or the presence of heavy connectives.
In addition to these paired nerves, a single one — G, appears on the right side (PI.
XIII, figs.
11, 12), emerging at a point close to the union of the pedal and pleural ganglia.
Coursing ventrally and posteriorly, it finally reaches the region of the accessory reproductive apparatus, where it breaks up into several distinct branches.
One of these disappears from view among the coils of the vas deferens, two or three minute twigs enter the penis, and in two specimens nerves have been traced into the seminal receptacle and into the oviduct adjacent to its external opening.
Pll arises from the antero-ventral border of the pleural ganglion.
In one case it was represented by two nerves, but whether single or paired, it directs its course dorsally, and branching repeatedly is distributed to the dorsal body wall in the neck region.
P12, a somewhat stronger nerve than Pll, near which it originates, extends in a postero-dorsal direction and after giving off one or two small nerves enters the most anterior and largest lappet.
P13 arises close to P12, at times fused with it basally, and likewise courses dorsally and posteriorly as far backward as the anal opening.
Throughout its extent it gives off branches to the first lappet, which is also innervated by a branch from P12, and also to the second and third lappets.
As the third lappet has no counterpart on the right side of the body, the corresponding nerve is distributed to the region about the anus.
Attention has been called to the fact that the third lappet and anal region are likewise innervated by branches of P2.
P14 courses ventrally and after dividing becomes lost in the connective tissue and muscle fibers of the body wall close to the anterior margin of the foot.
Buccal System.
— From the postero-ventral face of the cerebral ganglia the cerebro-buccal connectives arise, and coursing around the sides of the pharynx or esophagus unite with the buccal ganglia (PI.
XIII, fig.
10, B) at the sides of the digestive tract.
The buccal ganglia are more or less globular bodies, and in addition to the cerebro-buccal coimectives each is attached to three other nerves, of which one is the commissure extending beneath the pharynx to join its fellow of the opposite side.
Of the remaining two nerves one is comparatively short, and extending anteriorly unites almost immediately with a nerve originating more dorsally from the cerebrobuccal connective.
Beyond this point of union the combined bundle extends anteriorly and ventrally, and after forming a plexus becomes lost among the muscles of the pharynx.
The last buccal nerve to be considered pursues a posteriorly directed course from the buccal ganglion, and very soon unites with the smaller of the two pedal commissures.
Posterior to this point it continues along the sides of 10 the pharynx to a point about midway between the level of the central nervous system and the first liver pouch.
Here it divides, one branch extending dorsally to enter the pleural gangUon or the base of P13, while the ventral branch is directed to the ventral wall of the pharynx where it breaks up into several branches.
Both of these last-named nerves give rise to a single offshoot, each of which continues backward to the anterior border of the first liver pouch where they enter a strong, ganglionated commissure, passing over the dorsal wall of the pharynx.
The lower of the two nerves just mentioned develops a nerve, before entering the dorsal commissure, which is directed posteriorly beneath the first liver pouch and branches over the ventral wall of the stomach.
Another nerve, having a similar course, arises from the ganglion, and curving around the ventral margin of the pouch becomes lost on its walls after branching two or three times.
As noted previously, the dorsal buccal commissure is ganglionated at the point of union with the two nerves connected more anteriorly with the buccal ganglion, and posteriorly this ganglionated section extends along the sides of the stomach to the posterior border of the first liver pouch.
From it a clearly defined nerve arises, and extending dorsally follows the bile duct into the liver proper, where it breaks up and can be seen extending along some of the larger follicles.
At the posterior end of the liver pouch the buccal nerve divides, the ventral branch supplying the liver pouch and the ventral wall of the stomach.
The dorsal branch extends posteriorly along the sides of the stomach, and upon reaching the second liver pouch forms several branches, all but one of which enter the liver pouch.
The exception is a distinct nerve (Bi) which continues along the sides of the intestine, where it soon forms with its fellow a plexus that has been followed to the anal opening.
There are indications that in the anal region this plexus becomes continuous with branches from P13 or P2, which, as noted previously, are distributed to the body wall about the anus.
From the foregoing paragraphs it will be seen that the head, tentacles and otocysts are innervated solely by nerves from the cerebral gangUa.
The neck region is suppHed with branches (PU, P14) from the pleural ganglia.
The entire ventral half of the body proper and the posterior dorsal half is provided with nerves (PI, P2) from the pedal ganglia.
The remaining dorsal half is furnished with offshoots from pleural ganglion nerves (P12, P13).
The ventral surface of the esophagus is innervated by nerves (Cx) from the ventral face of the cerebral ganglia.
The stomach is supplied with at least three pairs of nerves having their origin in the buccal system.
The liver pouches and gland itself likewise derive their nerve supply from the buccal nerve complex.
From the same source a nerve on each side of the intestine forms a plexus throughout the length of the gut, and ma}' connect with branches (P2c) from the pedal ganglia or with others (P13) from the pleural.
The reproductive apparatus is abundantly supplied with branches of the nerve G having its origin in the right pleural ganglion.
In two specimens there were faint indications that delicate twigs from this same source enter the heart and renal organ, but this was not definitely determined.
A brief diagnosis of the present species is herewith appended.
Genus CHIOR^RA Gould.
A description of the genus is given in the opening paragraph of the present paper.
Type of the genus C. leonina.
Chioraera dalli new species.
Body limaciform, smooth and of a pearly color without definite signs of pigmentation.
Head enormously developed, with the mouth near the posterior margin.
Dorsal tentacles simple leaf-like expansions without special sheath.
Jaws, radula and salivary glands wanting.
Total length three inches.
Off the coast of British Columbia, in shallow water.
It is with great pleasure that I associate the name of this species with that of the renowned student of west-coast conchology, Dr. W. H. Dall.
Abbreviations Used in Figures.
Al albumen gland.
Ov oviduct.
B buccal ganglion.
P pedal ganglion.
Bi intestinal nerve.
PI, P2, P3, P4 pedal nerves.
C ♦cerebral gan lion.
Pa prostate gland.
Cl, C2, C3, C4 cerebral nerves.
Pc pedal commissures.
Cx cerebro-esophageal Pe pericardium.
nerve.
P pleural ganglion.
G visceral nerve.
PU, P12, P13, P 4 pleural nerves.
Lp liver pouch.
Sr seminal receptacle.
Mu mucous gland.
Vd vas deferens.
Ot ovotestis.
Explanation of Plates XI, XII, and XIII.
Plate XI.
— Fig.
1.
— Chioroera dalli, ventral view.
Fig.
2.
— Dorsal view of head, showing its innervation.
Fig.
3.
— Side view of entire animal.
Anal opening, near which is excretory pore, replaces lappet; left one shown in stippled outline.
Fig.
4.
— Side view of alimentary canal and digestive gland.
Fig.
5.
— Left side of body, showing distribution of pedal nerves.
Plate XII.
— Fig.
6.
— Dorsal view of alimentary canal and reproductive system.
Fig.
7.
— Dorsal view of alimentary canal and digestive gland.
Fig.
8.
— View of right side of reproductive system.
Fig.
9.
— Diagram of reproductive system.
Plate XIII.
— Fig.
10.— Central nervous system and adjacent nerves.
Fig.
11.
— Right side of body, showing distribution of principal nerves.
Fig.
12.
— Dorsal view of central nervous system and origin of principal nerves.
Fig.
13.
— Lateral view of pericardium, heart and the excretory system with main reservoir, nephrostome, ureter and external opening.
PLATE I. BERRY: MOSCHITES VERRUCOSA (VER.).
PLATE n. BERRY: MOSCHITES CHALLENGERI BERRY.
PLATE III " *' -S^m^' ■■ .
:■■■■ '■■'SI' ■ '^' 4 ■"^'" '" ~®.
^_#"'r-#-^'r'^ FOWLER AND DUNN: SALAMANDERS.
PLATE V. PILSBRY AND BROWN: OLIGOCENE FOSSILS.
PLATE VI.
F1L:SBRY AND BHOVVN: OLIGOCENE FOSSILS.
PLATE Vir.
PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSKS OF THE BLACK RANGE.
NEW MEXICO.
PLATE VIII.
1c 4a la 2a 3b lb Id 3a 3c "/4 7b 7c PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSKS OF THE BLACK RANGE, NEW MEXICO.
PLATE IX ^^^^^^^ -•2^%:X>^ nn 8 _:^^ la lb 3a WS^ 4a 4b '"^^y 3b 5a ^Hfr^^um^^^^^H^^^^MH fa ^^^^^^^^^L 1 ^^^K ' /^"^>-^B Bp^^ ^ 19 ^1 I i: W } PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSKS OF THE BLACK RANGE, NEW MEXICO.
PLATE X. PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSKS OF THE BLACK RANGE, NEW MEXICO.
PLATE XI.
HEATH: CHIOR.SRA DALLI.
PLATE XIT.
HEATH: CHIOR^^RA DALLI.
PLATE XIII.
HEATH: CHIOR^ERA DALLI.
April 17.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Fifty persons present.
The deaths of the following members were announced: Dr. William H. Forwood, U. S. N., May 11, 1915, and Simon J. Martin, March 24, 1917.
Mr. John Rothermel made an illastrated communication on the petrified forest and painted desert of Arizona.
(No abstract.)
The following were elected members: Charles W. Frost, George L. Harrison, Jr., Charles J. Rhoads, J. Parker Norris, Howard Fuguet.
The following was ordered to be printed: 11 NEW MOLLUSCA OF THE SANTO DOMINGAN OLIGOCENE.
BY H. A. PILSBRY AND C. W. JOHNSON.
The authors have had a revision of the fossils of Santo Domingo and Haiti, chiefly contained in the William M. Gabb collection, in preparation for some years.
The work is now completed; but as some months must elapse before the illustrations can be published, advance descriptions are here given of most of the new forms.
The age of the Santo Domingan beds covered by the collections of Heneken and Gabb has been the subject of some uncertainty; but it appears that the lower bed or beds, containing Orthaulax, are nearly or quite equivalent to the Orthaulax pugnax zone of the Oligocene of Tampa Bay, while the upper beds, furnishing most of the fossils, are uppermost Oligocene, synchronous with the upper beds (Gatun formation) of the Canal Zone.
We have found no evidence of Pliocene or other beds between the Upper Oligocene and the Pleistocene.
Illustrations of the species here described will appear in the complete report, now awaiting publication.
AOTEONIDiE.
Aoteon subtornatilis n. sp.
Actceon tornatilis Linn., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos, Soc, XV, p. 245.
Shell similar to A. tornatilis of Europe in size and form, but as coarsely sculptured over the whole body-whorl as that species is on the base.
There are about 35 subequal spiral grooves on the last whorl, cut into square or oblong pits by narrow vertical lamellae, the grooves separated by flat-topped ridges which are wider than the intervals except on the base, where they become narrow, no longer flat-topped, and about equal in width to the intervening grooves.
Length 17, diam.
8.4, length of aperture 12 mm.
This form was referred to A. tornatilis by Gabb, but it differs in having the sculpture coarser and equally developed over the whole body-whorl, not finer and fainter in the middle as in the well-known European species.
Type No.
3183.
Acteooina subbuUata "• sp.
This species is almost identical with A. bullata (Kilner) in form and size, but the aperture is slightly narrower above, and except close to the base there is no spiral striation.
Length 10, diam.
4.6 mm.
T^-pe No.
3193.
Retusa biforis n. sp.
The shell is perforate at both ends, cylindric, smooth.
Above it tapers to an angle around the concave summit, which has a small perforation.
Aperture is about twice as wide in the lower as in the upper part.
The lip recedes strongly at both ends.
Columella straight, the columellar margin somewhat reflected, the whorl narrowly excavated below the perforation.
Length 3, diam.
1.4 mm.
Type No.
3192, A. N. S. P. Volvula ornata n. sp.
The shell is moderately obese, tapering downward, with sculpture of small axial folds near the summit, spiral impressed lines around the base.
Spine is moderately long, obtuse.
Length 3.75, diam.
1.7 mm.
Type and 7 other specimens are No.
3178, A. N. S. P. Volvula parallela n. sp.
The shell is extremely fragile, slender, cylindric, showing extremely faint and fine spiral striation in the lower half.
The spine rises well above the lip, is rather short and acute.
The columella is a little, convex.
Length 2.2, diam.
0.75 mm.
(type).
Length 3 mm.
(largest specimen).
All of the three specimens are somewhat broken.
It is the most fragile and slenderest Volvula we have seen.
Type No.
3188.
Volvula cylichnoides n. sp.
The shell is rimate, oblong, the right side less convex than the left, the surface smooth so far as can be seen.
The lip rises high above the vertex, which shows no trace of a spine, and is narrowly rounded above.
Columella nearly straight.
Length 4.4, diam.
2 mm.
Type No.
3177, A. N. S. P. This species appears to be closely related to the unfigured recent V. aspinosa, but there is no trace of the rudimentary spine described for that species.
Atys cinctorii n. sp.
The shell is perforate, very shortly fusiform, swollen and smooth in the middle, rapidly tapering and encircled with impressed lines towards the two ends.
The vertex is narrowly concave, plain.
Columella prominent in the middle.
Length 2.6, diam.
1.35 mm.
Type No.
3185, A. N. S. P. The lip is somewhat broken.
It resembles the Chipolan A oedemata Dall, but has not the ornamentation of the vertex seen in that species; and the columella is rather strongly prominent in the middle.
In oedemata it is figured as straight.
Atys sulculorum n. sp.
Shell imperforate, short, swollen, with sculpture of about 15 ■encircling grooves, which are widely spaced in the middle; low and rather close vertical folds are seen in the upper part.
They pass over the vertex and converge to the axis.
Summit concave.
The columella is rather thick, terminating in a prominent plait'.
Length 2.3, diam.
1.35 mm.
Type No.
3317, A. N. S. P. Terebra baculiformis n. sp.
The shell is very slender, of nearly flat whorls.
These have axial sculpture of narrow, continuous, retractive, arcuate riblets, and spiral sculpture of unequal cords and threads, which are weak where they pass over the riblets.
A narrow, convex posterior fasciole has about 6 fine, unequal spiral threads, and is defined by a rather deep sulcus, also striate.
Below the sulcus there are about 7 unequal cords, followed below by a group of finer threads.
On the last whorl the axial riljlets are sigmoid and extend to the siphonal fasciole the uneven spiral striation covering the same portion.
The anterior channel is rather long for this genus, narrow.
The columella is smooth and very weakly sigmoid, being less bent than in most Terebras.
Length 30, diam.
5 mm.
; 10| whorls remaining.
The type is No.
2906, A. N. S. P. Terebra hitia nsp.
The shell is very slender, with slightly convex whorls.
Sculpture of many narrow axial riblets, narrower than their intervals, retractive above, vertical in the lower two-thirds.
Below the suture there are two spiral cords under the ribs, followed by a deeper sulcus and then a prominent spiral, below which there are about 6 spiral cords, unequally spaced, with some small spiral stride in the widest space.
The last whorl is largely broken away.
The columella shows one very low, rounded plait.
Length 24, diam.
5 mm.
; 11^ whorls remaining.
Type No.
2905, A. N. S. P. Drillia sororcula " sp.
A shell with much the appearance of D. ischnatrada, but differing by the much shorter aperture, less produced anterior canal, and the absense of spiral striae in the intervals of the spiral cords.
The latter are quite low and rounded, equal to their intervals.
On the last whorl there are 13 between the anal and siphonal fascioles, on the whorls of the spire 5, with another following the suture.
The anal fasciole is excavated, without distinct spiral striation.
Length 40.5, diam.
12 mm.
; length of aperture 19 mm.
9 whorls remaining, the apical ones broken off.
Type No.
2929, A. N. S. P. Drillia subgibbosa n. sp.
Turris {Drillia) gibbosa Chemn., Gabb, Tr.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 208, Not of Born.
The penult whorl is crossed by about thirteen rather sharp axial ribs which weaken abruptly where they cross the concave anal fasciole.
Some short ribs are intercalated on the last whorl.
The back is humped by a broad, prominent varix.
The anal fasciole is without spiral sculpture ; below it there are six spiral grooves between the ribs on the whorls of the spire, and on the last whorl about fourteen, here passing over both valleys and ribs.
The anal sinus is deep, separated from the preceding whorl by a heavy callous pad.
Siphonal fasciole is prominent.
Length 53.3, diam.
19 mm.
; about 10 whorls.
Though resembling the recent D. gibbosa, this form is at once distinguishable by the less regular axial ribs, which do not end abruptly at the shoulder, but continue weakly to the suture; also by the less contracted anterior canal.
Type and a smaller specimen are No.
2920, A. N. S. P. Drillia elocala n. sp.
Drillia henekeni Sow., Cossmann, Jour, de Conchj^l., LXI, 1913, p. 25, PI.
3, figs.
10, 11.
Not of Sowerby.
This shell resembles D. fusiformis Gabb in sculpture, but differs by the far shorter anterior canal.
The whorls are strongly convex, with sculpture of large, rounded, slightly protractive ribs, 6 on the penult, 7 on the last whorl.
These ribs distinctly undulate the anal fascicle.
Between sutures there is a strongly undulating presutural spiral followed by several very small spiral striae on the anal fasciole, which is not excavated or concave, and three strong cords, a fourth barel}^ appearing above the suture.
Between these cords some very fine and weak spiral striation is visible.
On the last whorl there are 17 spiral cords in addition to the presutural cord.
There is a strong varix a short distance behind the lip.
Anal sinus deep and rounded.
Length 25.5, of last whorl 14, diam.
9.7 mm.
Type No.
3296, A. N. S. P. Seventeen other examples are No.
3295.
Some specimens are more slender, the most lengthened being 26.5 mm.
long, 8.3 wide.
It appears to stand close to D. severina Dall, but that species has a wdder, "distinctly excavated" anal fasciole, and a relatively longer last whorl.
Brillia callistura n. sp.
The spire is straightly turrited, sculptured with regular, acute, slightly protractive axial ribs, of which there are 18 on the penult whorl.
The ribs terminate abruptly above, leaving a narrow, deeply concave anal fasciole which is bounded above by a spiral cord a little distance below the suture.
In the posterior fasciole and between the axial ribs there are close, fine spiral threads, and weakly marked growih-lines, more obliquely protractive than the ribs.
On the last whorl the ribs gradually diminish downward, and are wanting on the narrow anterior end, and the lower half has rather coarse spirals.
A rather strong varix stands close behind the lip.
There are about 9 acute lirse within the outer lip.
Leng-th 22, diam.
8, length of aperture 9 mm.
; 8 whorls remaining in the tj^De, which has lost the apical whorls.
Type is No.
2907, A. N. S. P. One specimen.
This species is closely related to D. jamaicensis Guppy (D. ebenina Dall), from which it differs by having the anal fasciole evenly and distinctly striated spirally, with no trace of the close, arcuate growthridges, which predominate in jamaicensis.
The anal sinus is not nearl}' so deep and not contracted in front.
The throat is lirate.
The spire has straight outlines.
Finally, it attains a somewhat larger size.
Drillia ischnatracta n. sp.
The shell is fusiform, the two apical whorls smooth, following whorls of the spire with about nine slightly protr active axial ribs, which do not cross the concave anal fasciole.
There are numerous, acute, spiral threads alternating with smaller ones.
On the penult whorl there are seven of the larger threads below and two or three above the anal fasciole.
Between the alternating threads are still finer spiral striae.
On the last whorl, where the axial ribs become irregular, partly obsolete, the spiral sculpture remains the same; there being about 28 larger spirals below the shoulder.
The anal fasciole is minutely striate spirally.
Length 51.4, diam.
13.5 mm.
Length 53.4, diam.
13.5 mm., length of aperture 25.5 mm.
; 11 postnepionic whorls.
Type No.
2904.
This differs from D. henekeni by the more slender shape, with much lower ribs, which become weak and irregular on the last whorl.'
The inter-liral spaces are densely, finely striate, while in D. henekeni they are smooth.
In many specimens the spirals do not alternate in size as described above, the intervals having fine, unequal or subequal spiral striae.
Drillia soala n. sp.
The shell is fusiform, whorls strongly convex, concave just below the suture.
Penult whorl with sixteen acute axial ribs, nearly vertical except for a short backward curvature below the suture, where the ribs diminish abruptly in size.
In the intervals there are fine, rounded, spiral threads, scarcely as wide as their interstices; between them much more minute growth-lines may be seen.
There is a strong, latero-dorsal varix.
The aperture is somewhat broken.
Length 45.5, diam.
17 mm.
This species resembles D. squamosa in form but the acute not nodose longitudinal ribs, the regular revolving sculpture at once separate it from that species.
On the other hand it is related to D. venusta but is at once distinguished by its long anterior canal, fewer longitudinal ribs and more numerous spirals.
The fine lines of growth between the spiral lines are wanting in D. venusta.
Type and a broken specimen are No.
2932.
Drillia hexapleura n. sp.
A small species with nearly straight sided spire upon which the limits of the whorls are difficult to make out.
Sculpture of 6 very broad, low, rounded axial ribs, continuous from whorl to whorl.
These are crossed by strong spiral cords, which are a little narrower in the intervals.
Each whorl of the spire has two of these cords below and one above the concave anal fasciole, in which a few weak spiral striae may be seen.
On the last whorl there are 11 spirals below the fasciole, the intervals somewhat distinctly marked with growth-striae.
There is a stout varix behind the outer lip.
The aperture is rather narrow.
Length 8, diam.
3.5 mm.
; about 6 whorls remaining.
The small number of spiral cords and very wide axial ribs distinguish this species.
It is closely related to the Pliocene D. acucincta Dall, 1890, a very much larger species.
The strong varix behind the lip of D. hexapleura shows that it is adult.
Drillia mimula n. sp.
The shell closely resembles D. parkeri in ribbing, except that the ribs do not extend so far down on the last whorl.
The whorls and the whole shell are shorter, the last much more abruptly contracted below.
The smooth embryonic shell has only 1| bulbous whorls, the ribs beginning strongly in the middle of the second whorl.
There is a microscopic sculpture of crowded spiral striae.
Aperture broken.
Length 16.5 mm.
(broken anteriorly), diam.
5.8 mm.
; nearly 10 whorls.
Type No.
2925.
Drillia esculenta n. sp.
The shell is fusiform, of 10 whorls, the first 2§ forming the embryonic shell are smooth and convex.
Subsequent whorls are concave in the upper third, then convex, with sculpture of rounded, slightly protractive axial ribs, which become lower and arched backward as they cross the concave zone.
There are 15 ribs on the penult whorl; last whorl having a stout dorsal varix.
A few ripples along growth-lines may be seen, more obliquely protr&,ctive than the ribs.
In the intervals and more weakly over the ribs there are crowded, very fine spiral threads.
The aperture is broken, but the inner lip is continuous, rather heavy, and built forward.
Length 13.3, diam.
5 mm.
Three specimens are in the lot, the figured type having been bored by a predaceous gastropod.
The minute sculpture differentiates it from other species of the same horizon.
Type No.
2922.
Drillia orthopleura n. sp.
The shell is slender, fusiform, with sculpture of strong longitudinal ribs, continuous from whorl to whorl, and smooth except for fine growth-wrinkles.
The riljs are lower on the anal fasciole, which is limited below by an inconspicuous cord.
The ribs disappear on the anterior canal.
The siphonal fasciole is banded above by an acute cord.
Columella is nearly straight.
Outer lip broken.
Length 14, diam.
(estimated) 5 mm.
; 8 whorls, several at the apex lost.
Type No.
3198, A. N. S. P. Drillia callistopleura n. sp.
Shell fusiform, of lU whorls.
Embryonic 1| whorls smooth, the first one inflated; three following whorls are angular above the suture, after Avhich the whorls become convex, having slightly protractive axial ribs and spirally striated intervals.
On the penult whorl there are nineteen axial ribs, which are slightly lower and a little arcuate below the suture.
Between the axial ribs, on the spire, there are rounded spiral cords, about as wide as their intervals, twelve on the penult whorl; on the last whorl they number about thirty-six.
Anteriorly the ribs weaken and the spirals pass over them.
There is a prominent dorsal varix.
Aperture imperfect.
Length 22.4, diam.
7 mm.
The smooth axial ribs, and uniform, close, revolving cords distinguish this species.
It is nearly related to the following.
The type and 4 specimens are No.
2921, A. N. S. P. Drillia lissotropis dorsuosa n. subsp.
Cf.
Drillia lissotropis Dall, Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
IX, 1881, p. 58; XVIII, 1889, p. 91, PI.
11, figs.
3, 4, and D. lissotropis var.
perpolita Dall.
This form has eight or nine smooth ribs on each whorl.
They extend from suture to suture, not being interrupted below the suture.
Suture bordered below with an uneven ridge, the intercostal valleys slightly pitted below the ridge.
There is a rather prominent varix about one-fourth whorl behind the aperture.
The outer lip is broken away.
A callous nodule on the body borders the posterior sinus.
Length 8.8, diam.
3 mm.
; 9 whorls.
Drillia foveolata n. sp.
There are twelve rounded, slightly protractive ribs on the penult whorls, the intervals having sharply impressed spiral lines, seven on the penult whorl.
There is a low, rounded ridge below the suture, the intercostal valleys somewhat pitted below it.
There is a prominent varix about one-fourth whorl behind the aperture.
The outer lip is broken.
Length 14.3 diam, 5 mm.
; llf w^horls.
The type and two otjier specimens are No.
2958, A. N. S. P. The tjT)e is somewhat smaller than the others, both of which have been bored by predaceous snails.
Clathurella arnica nspResembles C. gracilis.
It is less slender and the whorls are shorter and revolve less obliquely.
It has the same number of axial ribs and spiral threads, but, as they are relatively larger, they are much more crowded than in C. gracilis.
The fine spiral lines between the prominent raised threads are very minute.
The lip varix is noticeably larger, and the mouth is wider; the callous nodule on the body next to the sinus is much larger than in C. gracilis.
Length 16.3, diam.
5.25 mm.
; aperture 7.5 mm.
It is allied to C. vendryesiana Dall,^ but the prominent axial ribs over the whole shell differentiate it.
Type is No.
2913, A. N. S. P. Scobinella tristis n. sp.
The shell is fusiform with turrited spire.
The whorls are strongly angular at the shoulder, rather deeply concave between the shoulder and a strong, beaded ridge below the suture.
There are four spiral cords in the concavity.
At and below the shoulder there are about 24, deepl}' beaded spiral cords, the beads arranged in protractive curves.
On the penult whorl there are four spirals below the shoulder, which has a bifid spiral.
The aperture is very narrow.
The outer lip of the type has been broken during the life of the animal, and is thicker than normal, Urate within.
The long, straight columella bears two strong, mitriform plaits, and there is the faint trace of a third one.
Length 45.8, diam.
13, length of aperture 26 mm.
; 6 + whorls remain, the upper ones being lost.
Type No.
2927, A. N. S. P. This is a shorter, less graceful shell than S. magiiifica, with the whorls more strongly shouldered, more concave above the shoulder, and with a stronger presutural cord.
Scobinella morierei (Cossm.)
has a shorter anterior canal.
S. ccelata Conrad is smaller and less fusiform.
Conus furvoides brachys n. subsp.
The shell is shorter than furvoides.
The last 4 whorls are concave and weakly striate spirally.
It stands close to C. concavitectmn B.
& P., of Gatun, but that species has more copious and granulous 1 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XIX, 1896, p. 306, PI.
27, fig.
1. spiral strise in the lower half, and the spiral striation of the spire is distinct.
Length 33.5, diam.
17.3 mm.
(type). "
38, " 20.5 '' Conus xenious n. sp.
The shell is broad above, the diameter about two-thirds of the length; spire low, its outline strongly concave, rising to an acute apex; periphery carinate, the slopes below it nearly straight.
The early whorls have a smooth keel, projecting above the suture, but the last five are flat, with very weak traces of spiral striae, and separated by a plain, narrowly impressed suture.
The last whorl has coarse, well separated spiral cords on the anterior end, but under suitabty oblique light very faint spirals may be seen throughout.
The faint growth-strise retract rather strongly near the shoulder.
The aperture is very narrow.
Leng-th 29, diam.
19 mm.
(type).
27, " 17 '' Besides the type, No.
2575, A. N. S. P., there are three other specimens in the lot.
It was labeled "Conus sp.
?, monstrosity" by Gabb, but none of the specimens shows any trace of injury, and we have every reason to believe that they are entirely normal.
Conus perlepidus n. sp.
Conus planiliratus Sby., Gabb.
Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 230.
Not of Sowerby.
The shell is rather slender, with somewhat concavely conic spire of about 12 whorls, which are fiat, marked with raised, arcuate strise, and have an angle projecting very little above the suture.
Last whorl is rather actuely angular, the sides nearly straight below the angle, with sculpture of about 22 spiral furrows half as wide as the flat intervals; the furrows being cancellated by raised axial threads.
The posterior sinus of the aperture is deep.
Aperture of about equal width throughout.
Length 44, diam.
18, length of aperture 38 mm.
Gabb referred the specimens of this species to C. planiliratus, but Sowerby's phrase "Testa turbinata, crassa" could hardly have been applied to such "a long, narrow species" as this.
Gabb refers, also, to Guppy's figure in Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, XXII, PI.
16, fig.
7, which agrees well with Sowerby's brief diagnosis of C. planiliratus, but not with the present species.
The type and five other specimens are No.
2569, A. N. S. P. In small specimens, 22 mm.
long, the spiral grooves are equal in width to the flat intervals.
Conus trisculptus n. sp.
The shell is biconic, the spire composed of slightly concave whorls, with a low carina projecting above the suture.
On the last 2| whorls this carina bears low nodes (about 20 on the last whorl), but on the earlier whorls the keel is smooth.
The upper slope of each whorl has prominent, arcuate radial striae but no spirals.
Below the shoulder the surface is slightly convex, contracted a little above the base.
The lower half has about 13 spiral grooves, widely separated except close to the base; and except on the anterior fourth there are spiral series of small pustules which are slightly lengthened in the axial direction, and are arranged in vertical row^s, but somewhat irregular in places.
Length 34.5, diam.
16.5 mm.
; length of aperture 27 mm.
Costa Rica, Pliocene.
W. M. Gabb.
Type No.
2567, A. N. S. P. This cone was with the lot of C. consohrinus ultimus, from which it is at once separable by the smooth keel of the upper whorls.
Conus consobrinua ultimus n. subsp.
CotiMs consohrinus Sb}'., Gabb, Journ.
A. N. S. Phila.
2 Ser., VIII, p. 359.
Shell more squarely shouldered than C. consohrinus, and with tubercles extending upon the angle of the last whorl.
Length 52, diam.
24.3 mm.
Costa Rica, Pliocene.
Collected by W. M. Gabb.
Type and five other specimens are No.
3322, A. N. S. P. Conus longitudinalis n. sp.
The shell is about twice as long as wide, with nearly straightly conic, elevated spire of about 10 whorls.
These are flat, with an angle projecting above the suture and on the last whorl.
There are slightly arcuate, protractive strise above.
The last whorl, below the shoulder is coarsely corrugated vertically, the wrinkles somewhat irregular.
The anterior third has narrow, spiral grooves, the upper three widely spaced, the rest in pairs, and all crossed by axial threads.
Length 35, diam.
17.5 mm.
This species is remarkable for its coarsely wrinkled surface.
It is known by one specimen with the outer lip extensively broken, and the spire and part of the last whorl of another.
Type No.
2574, A. N. S. P. Conus simplioissimus n. sp.
Conns berghausii Mich., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1872, p. 232.
Not of Michelotti.
The shell is thick, stout, the diameter more than half the length, smooth except for delicate growth-lines.
Spire conic with concave outlines, the whorls nearly flat, the upper ones angular above the suture.
Shoulder rounded, the lateral slope below it somewhat convex, showing very faint traces of five spiral series of rather large reddish spots.
Above the shoulder there are some oblique reddish flames.
No spirals near the base or elsewhere.
Aperture is somewhat widened in the lower third.
Length 68, diam.
42 mm.
63, " 33.5 " ; whorls 11 (type).
41, " 25.5 " .
A cone of very simple form, differing from others of somewhat similar contour by the absence of spiral sculpture.
C. recogonitus is much more contracted anteriorly, and has weak spiral striae.
The smallest specimen of the three is that which Gabb referred to C. berghausii Mich., an Italian Tertiary species.
Dr. Dall has included C. berghausii Gabb in t(he synonymy of C. proteus, but it differs from that by the swollen shape, and is certainly distinct.
Type No.
2549.
Conus porcellus n. sp.
Conus cedo-nulli Brug., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1872, p. 232.
The shell is broad, the diameter about two-thirds of the length.
The spire is low-conic with slightly concave outlines, composed of about 10 whorls, the later two or three concave above, earlier ones flat, a few showing a slightly projecting angle above the suture; lightly sculptured with arcuate growth-lines.
The shoulder of the last whorl is well rounded; lateral slope convex in the upper part, then straight.
A siphonal fasciole is defined by an oblique, spiral ridge, below which there are four spiral cords.
Above the ridge there are about 10 narrow, widely spaced spiral cords, each bordered above by a slight gutter which is striated vertically.
The upper third of the last whorl is nearly smooth, but ujider a lens it shows faint, widely spaced spirals, either slightly raised or indicated by gray lines.
Length 29.3, diam.
19 mm.
;lengthof aperture 25 mm.
(type).
38, " 24 " (largest specimen).
Type No.
2546.
A series of several hundred specimens is in the collection, the type being contained in No.
2556, A. N. S. P. We are utterly at a loss to account for Gabb's reference of the shell to C. cedo-nulli, which is entirely different.
The sculpture is rather variable, as usual in Conus some individuals showing raised spirals nearly up to the shoulder, while in other the upper half may be smooth.
Conus pernodosus n. sp.
The shell is rather slender, the diameter not quite half the length ; spire produced, slightly concave in the upper part, of about 9 whorls, which are slightly concave and spirally striated above, with a projecting periphery which is set with somewhat pointed tubercles on the last 3| whorls.
On the angle of the last whorl there are 11 tubercles.
Below the angle the outline is very slightly convex.
Surface closely sculptured with flat-topped spiral cords about twice as wide as the intervals (37 below the angle of last whorl) ; intervals are sharply sculptured with axial threads.
Length 23.3 (imperfect at base); diam.
12.3 mm.
With the type, No.
2552, A. N. S. P., there are two young shells about 15 mm.
long, which show tubercles on the last whorl only.
The upper whorls, in this species, have a smooth, projecting periphery.
Conus gabbi n. sp.
The shell is rather slender, stoutly fusiform, with a concavely conic spire of about 11 whorls; all post-embryonic whorls have a tubercular keel projecting above the suture.
Upper surface of each whorl is slightly concave, with about 5 unequal spiral threads crossed by prominent, arched, unequal striae.
Below the shoulder of the last whorl the slope is at first convex, becoming slightly concave in the lower part.
It is sculptured with about 37 smooth, rounded spiral ribs narrower than their intervals, which are elegantly cancellated by close raised axial threads.
The aperture is rather narroAv throughout.
Length 43, diam.
17.5 mm.
; length of aperture 35 mm.
The number and spacing of the spiral ribs is somewhat variable.
In one specimen 35 mm.
long there are only 24 spiral ribs.
Conus tortuosostriatus Toula (1911), from the Panama Canal, resembles this species somewhat, but it has fewer and flattened spirals, and there are some fine spiral threads in the furrows.
It seems also to be more contracted in the lower part.
The type and four other specimens are No.
2553, A. N. S. P. Conus larvatus n. sp.
The shell is extremely slender, the length about 3| times the diameter, fusiform.
Spire produced, composed of flat whorls, the beaded periphery projecting above the suture; apical whorls lost.
The last whorl is angular, the angle set with 25 bead-like tubercles, which are a little lengthened in the spiral direction; elsewhere, above and below the angle, it has close, even fine spiral cords with very sharp axial striation in the intervals.
Upward, towards the shoulder, the striae slowly retract.
The aperture is extremely narrow.
The inner lip is excavated in its lower fourth.
Length (truncated) 33, diam.
9.5 mm.
; 5| whorls remaining.
Type No.
2550, A. N. S. P. This species, C. gahbi and C. pernodosus, were lumped by Gabb under C. orbignyi Audouin, a recent species inhabiting the Eastern Seas.
C. gracilissimus Guppy, from the Oligocene of Jamaica, is closely allied, but it is a distinct species, with wide, flat, revolving costae.
C. larvatus is narrower than C. tortuosostriatus Toula, and differs conspicuously in contour.
Toula's species has more resemblance to C. gracilissimus Guppy.
Cancellaria gabbiana n. sp.
The shell is short, turbinate solid, of about 7 whorls.
The bulbous embryonic shell consists of If convex, smooth whorls.
Following whorls have slightly retractive axial ribs much narrower than their intervals, about 18 on the last whorl.
At intervals of about a half whorl there are rather broad varices.
There are 18 spiral cords hardly half as wide as their intervals and passing over ribs and varices.
Siphonal fasciole is prominent, surrounding a small umbilicus.
The aperture is large, oval; outer lip is somewhat effuse at the outer-basal part, but not retracted; sculptured within with 14 sharp lirse.
Columellar plaits are not very strong, the upper one thin, middle one somewhat blunt.
A broadly spreading but thin parietal callous coats the face in front of the aperture.
Length 24.5, diam.
19.4 mm.
; length of aperture 17 mm.
The type and another specimen were among unassorted material.
No.
3288, A. N. S. P. Cancellaria (Trigonostoma) insularis n. sp.
Cancellaria brevis Sby., Gabb, Tr.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 236.
Not of Sowerby.
?
Cancellaria {Trigonostoma) aff.
C. bullata Sow., Toula.
Jahrb.
k.k.
Geol.
Reichsanstalt, LXI, p. 504, PI.
30, fig.
10.
The shell is short and broad, openly umbilicate, solid.
There are 1| smooth, strongly convex embryonic whorls, 4| subsequent whorls, which are separated by a very deep y channelled suture ; the last whorl therefore being bluntly carinate abov and at the base.
Sculpture of strong, narrow, retractive axial ribs, 14 on the last whorl, passing over the carinse at summit and base; crossed by numerous, unequal, low spiral cords.
The aperture has two strong lirae within the straight upper margin, eleven within the outer.
The inner lip has many entering wrinkles, and three columellar plaits, the anterior one low and obtuse.
Length 24.5, diam.
21 mm.
Type is No.
2989, A. N. S. P. This species is not at all like the recent C. hrevis Sowb.
It closely resembles C. perspediva Conr., of the Chesapeake Miocene, but differs in its more rugose aperture and narrow, irregular ribs, which in C. perspectiva are wide and regularly alternating.
The aperture and umbilicus are larger than in C. depressa Dall, of the Tampa silex beds.
It differs conspicuously from C. moorei Guppy in the basal region.
A Trigonostorna figured by Toula, referred to above, appears to be close to C. insularis, perhaps specifically identical.
Oliva proavia n. sp.
Oliva cylindrica Sby., Gabb.
Tr.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 215 (pars secunda).
The shell is somewhat fusiform, the upper fourth of the last whorl and the spire tapering, forming a straightly conic spire.
In its even surface the suture appears as an engraved groove, the individual whorls being flat.
The first two whorls form a minute, mammillate apex.
Whorls 9.
The aperture occupies almost exactly f of the total length.
Columella is rather heavily calloused, and bears about 21 very oblique plaits, of which all but about 10 in the median part are quite small.
There are faint traces of a color pattern resembling that of 0. sayana Rav.
Length 81.5, diam, 27, aperture 62 mm.
(type). "
101, " 37, " 86.5 " The type and a larger specimen are No.
2992, A. N. S. P. Comparing the two large .
specimens with 0. sayana Rav.
(0. litterata Lam., 0. carolimensis Conr.)
we note the more slender contour and much more oblique columellar folds of 0. proavia.
A further important distinction is that the lateral contours of the spire are continuous across the suture in proavia, while in the other species the posterior edge of each whorl projects beyond the preceding.
The type specimen is quite perfect except that the Up is somewhat crushed in above, making the aperture appear shorter and narrower above than it really is.
Oliva dimidiata n. sp.
The shell is small, cylindric, with conic spire and mamillate apex.
The last three to four whorls are flat, covered with callous, and separated by channelled suture.
The last whorl is encircled a little above the middle by a narrow groove.
The basal fasciole has 6 strong ledges.
There are 14 short folds on the columellar margin.
Length 12.2, diam.
5.3 mm.
; length of aperture 9 mm.
; 6| whorls.
Others measure 11.5 and 13 mm.
long.
This was at first suspected to be a young stage of 0. gradata; but that species is longer when it has the same number of whorls.
Moreover, the narrow ledge of gradata is unlike the groove of this species.
It is closely related to the recent 0. undatella Lam.
of the west Mexican coast but is less inflated, and to judge by the three examples in the typical lot, it does not become so large.
Type No.
2804.
Marginella nugax n. sp.
The shell is very small, biconic, of four slightly convex whorls; apex obtuse.
The suture ascends strongly in front.
Aperture narrow.
Outer lip broad, thickened, the inner margin having 8 teeth, the upper fourth without teeth.
Columella with four plaits.
Length 3.7, diam 2 mm.
Type No.
2802, A. N. S. P. Though very small, the lip has a conspicuous external varix.
Mitra tortuosella n. sp.
The shell is fusiform, slender, with sculpture of acute axial ribs (about 14 on each whorl), the concave intervals between them having spiral impressed lines which do not pass over the smooth summits of the ribs.
There are 7 or 8 such impressions in each interval on the penult whorl.
On the narrow anterior half of the last whorl there are well separated spiral cords.
The outer lip is sculptured within with five slender lirse.
There are four columellar plaits.
Length 18.5, diam.
6 mm.
; 8 whorls, the embryonic being lost.
Type No.
3285, A. N. S. P. This is closely related by its sculpture to M. tortuosa but it differs by the very slender form.
A young M. tortuosa 16.3 mm.
long has a diameter of 7 mm.
In some of the intercostal intervals there is a median longitudinal groove.
12 Mitra tortuosella frater n. subsp.
This form is closely related to the preceding, but differs by having deeply cut spiral grooves about as wide as the raised cords, in the intercostal intervals.
There are 7 or 8 grooves on the penult whorl which has 15 slightly arched axial ribs.
The anterior canal is shorter than in M. tortuosella.
Length 14.7, diam.
5 mm.
; 8 whorls, the apical ones lost.
Further series are needed to determine the value of the differences between this form and the preceding.
Type No.
3286.
Mitra mesolia n. sp.
The shell is short and stout.
Sculpture of a few impressed spiral lines on the upper part of the last whorl and the spire, 6 on the penult whorl, the anterior end having about 9 low spiral ridges, with faint traces of spirals above them, the middle part of the last whorl being smooth.
Lip thickened within in the lower three-fourths, smooth; 4 columellar plaits.
Length 20 (apical whorls wanting), diam., 9.5 mm.
This species is shorter than the Galifornian M. maura which it resembles.
In a younger specimen only a small part of the last whorl is unsculptured.
Type No.
3275.
Plochelaea gabbi n. sp.
The shell is smaller than P. crassilahrum.
Spire concavely conic, of 7| flat whorls.
First 2 whorls form a nipple-like apex; the next 2 or 3 are very delicately striate spirally; subsequent whorls showing faint groAvth-lines only.
Suture not impressed, suddenly ascending to or very nearly to the summit of the last whorl, in front.
Last whorl has more convex outlines than P. crassilahrum, and terminates in a very low, wide varix.
The outer lip is subacute in the upper part, but a little blunt and slightly reflected in the lower half.
It is not inflected.
The upper third of the aperture is narrow, lower two-thirds dilated, widest just above the basal channel, which is deep and recurved.
There are 4 narrow, nearly horizontal columellar plaits, and al)ove them 3 distinct and one or tw^o vestigeal, smaller, slightly ascending plaits in one specimen, but in the type only two short plaits above the four strong ones.
Length 25 , diam.
12.7, length aperture 22.3 mm. ''
27.4, " 12.7, '' " 24.2 " (type).
The shorter spire, stronglj^ ascending anterior end of the suture, and the straightened but not inflected outer lip, amply distinguish this species from the larger P. crassilahrum, with which it was lumped by Gabb.
Type and one paratype are No.
3290, A. N. S. P. Xancus rex n. sp.
Turbinella mlida Sby., Gabb, Tr.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 218.
Not Turbinellus validus Sowerby.
The shell is biconic, large and ponderous, the periphery about median.
First whorl distorted, bulbous, smooth, next whorl contracted and narrow.
Succeeding whorls have massive axial folds, 6 or 7 on a whorl, traversed by about 7 spiral cords.
After the mid-neanic stage the spiral sculpture weakens, and the folds gradually give place to strong tubercles at the shoulder.
On the last whorl of the type there are 12 such tubercles.
Above the shoulder there is a steep, slightly concave slope to the suture, the surface being conspicuously, fineh^ plicate and having a few spiral cords, which are indistinct in the adult stage.
The whorl is appressed at the suture, the axial wrinkles becoming strongly retractive laminae there.
The basal half of the last whorl has many spiral cords.
The inner lip is heavily calloused, columella with 3 strong plaits.
Length (as broken) 212, diam.
117 mm.
(type). "
155, diam.
62 mm.
This species differs from the recent X. scolymus by the shorter spire, coarser sculpture above the shoulder, smaller and more numerous tubercles at the shoulder, etc.
The whorl slopes much more steeply above the shoulder than in X. wilsoni or X. polygonatus.
The type, No.
2628, A. N. S. P., and a series of 35 specimens of various ages are in the collection.
The description of the embryonic whorls is from a paratype.
Vasum pugnus n. sp.
The shell is biconic ; spire elevated, the whorls having rounded peripheral nodes, about 8 on a whorl, and spiral threads, about 12 with a few minor ones, on the penult whorl.
On the last whorl there are short, thick axial folds extending a short distance downward from the shoulder, and an inferior row of blunt tubercles.
From the shoulder down there are low, well-spaced spiral cords, with about 3 smaller spirals in their intervals.
Length 80, diam.
50 mm.
The spire is higher and more straight ly conic and the last whorl not so wide as in V. muricatum, the spiral threads on the spire are much smaller.
Type No.
2626, A. N. S. P. Melongena orthacantha n. sp.
The shell has a shortly conic spire, angular periphery, below which it tapers rapidly.
At the periphery there are short radiating spines rising from short folds, which corrugate the upper surface.
The last whorl has 12 spines.
There is an inferior ridge armed with spines, and a prominent siphonal fasciole.
Below the suture there is a convex nodulose or scaly fasciole.
The surface has also numerous spiral cords, ten between the peripheral and inferior series of spines.
The aperture is smooth within.
Length 29.7, diam.
25.5 mm.
; 5| whorls (type).
36.2, " 31.2 " (wornadult)^ The type and two paratypes are No.
2956, A. N. S. P. The type is a perfect but not quite adult specimen.
A fully adult but worn (beach rolled) shell has 10 peripheral tubercles on the last whorl; the fold-like character is scarcely noticeable in this stage.
The sutural fasciole is more prominent.
In a somewhat broken specimen 35.5 mm.
long there are smaller spirals in part of the intervals, increasing the number mentioned abo\ie by about one-half.
This specimen has ten spines on the last whorl.
Anachis gracilicostata n. sp.
The type specimen has 7 whorls, the first three smooth, the rest with about 27 straight, axial riblets at least as wide as their intervals; no spiral sculpture above the periphery; below it there are fine spiral lines between the riblets, and on the anterior third about 8 spiral cords.
The aperture is about half the total length of the shell.
Length 4.7, diam.
2 mm.
Two specimens were found in the lot of A. exilis.
As both are immature, the aperture cannot be described; but the characteristic sculpture, unlike any other shell of these beds, will insure recognition of the species.
Type and another are No.
2803, A. N. S. P. Another species of Columbellid is represented bj' specimens too imperfect for diagnosis.
Strombina politissima n. sp.
The spire tapers regularly, and is composed of 7 convex whorls, separated by an impressed suture, which does not ascend in front.
A prominent, rounded varix strengthens the lip, which has a small tubercle within near the posterior insertion, another at the beginning of the anterior canal.
There is a small entering callus on the parietal wall posteriorly.
Surface smooth and highly polished except at the base, where there are about 14 obliquely spiral cords.
Length 7.1, diam.
3.4 mm.
Type No.
2801, A. N. S. P. One specimen was found with the large lot of S. haitensis.
It resembles that species in shape but not in sculpture.
Metulella dominicensis n. sp.
The long spire has very slightly concave outlines.
The embryonic shell is glossy and smooth, of If convex whorls, the first one rather large.
Following whorls are very slightly convex, angular a short distance above the suture, which is in a channel.
Sculpture of close, fine axial ribs, at first smooth, but at the third a few Aveak spiral cords appear, stronger in the intercostal spaces.
On the penult whorl there are 3 or 4 such cords ; on the last whorl about 5 from the periphery up; just below the periphery there is a zone without spirals, then about 20 stronger spirals on the lower part.
There are about 7 teeth within the outer lip, and 5 or 6 on the columella.
Length 16.4, diam.
5.2 mm.
; 8| whorls.
Type No.
3217, A. N. S. P. Closely related to M. fusiformis, but the whorls are less convex, the spiral sculpture far weaker and the shell is more slender.
Thais santodomingensis n. sp.
The shell is somewhat biconic, with short, straightly conic spire and weakly angular periphery.
Suture bordered below with an irregular, somewhat scabrous rounded ridge or welt; a somewhat nodose low rounded ridge runs in the anterior concavity.
Sculpture of numerous vertical ribs on the upper and middle part of the whorls, strongest at the periphery, ten on the last whorl, and many spiral cords in strong relief.
Siphonal fascicle prominent, umbilical crevice open.
The aperture has a shallow posterior channel and the usual deep anterior notch.
Columella is heavy rounded and straight.
Length 45, diam.
30 mm, ; 5^ whorls.
Type No.
3187, A. N. S. P. This species may be compared with the recent Caribbean Thais coronata (Lam.).
It differs in sculpture, having rounded ribs in the peripheral region, where it is indistinctly angular.
In T. coronata the later whorls are distinctly shouldered.
There is a spiral ridge in the concavity below, which is wanting in T. coronata.
Malea elliptica nsp.
The shell is narrower than M. camura, with a longer spire.
Sculpture of flattened, very slightly raised, strap-like spirals, which are much wider than the intervals.
Three spirals below the suture are narrow.
On the penult whorl there are five subequal wide spirals besides three subsutural narrow ones, the intervals traversed by fine threads.
The last whorl has twenty wide and three narrow spirals.
The aperture is narrow.
Lip having about the same structure as in M. camura.
There is a large parietal tooth, with smaller ones above and below it, and a prominent, double, columellar tooth ; the columella and the upper part of the parietal wall strongly rugose.
Length 53.5, diam.
34.7 mm.
; 5f whorls remaining, the tip wanting.
Type No.
2590.
The very much less raised and more numerous spirals, as well as the general shape of the shell, separate this from M. camura.
Malea goliath n. sp.
Large and globose, thin, with sculpture of broad, flat spirals parted by furrows from one-fourth to one-third as wide, 19 spirals on the last whorl, five on the penult and next earlier, where the median one is larger and prominent.
Perietal tooth composed of four plaits.
Columellar prominence with about six plaits, the upper three larger.
Outer lip broken, but fragments indicate structure similar to M. camura.
Length 129, diam.
107 mm.
Type No.
2592.
Strombus galliformis n. sp.
Strombus bituberculatus Lam., in part, Gabb, Tr.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 233.
Not of Lamarck.
, Related to S. gallus L. The spire is high, with sculpture of axial riblets and inconspicuous varices on the earlier whorls, changing to short tubercles on the last four, the penult whorl having two low, massive varices.
Whorls of the spire having unequal spiral striae.
The last whorl has a smooth shoulder in front, three high tubercles on the back, the central one largest; the whole surface having widely spaced spiral ridges and fine, very weak, spiral striae.
Lip produced upward in an angle, smooth within; no entering wrinkles on the posterior end of columellar lip.
Length 100, diam.
66 mm.
; 9h whorls.
In the recent S. gallus the lip is far more produced upward and it spreads on the left side above the shoulder; the spiral ridges on the back are coarser, and the tubercles at the shoulder more numerous.
The new form is more like S. peruvianus in form of the lip, but that species has the throat conspicuously rugose.
Type is No.
2582, A. N. S. P. Strombus dominator n. sp.
Slrombus gigas Linn., Gabb, Tr.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 234.
A species related to S. costatus {accipitri7ius) .
Spire not very high, the whorls having rounded tubercles on the periphery, and spiral striae.
The last whorl has a strong, rounded keel at the shoulder, a stout, triangular tubercle in the middle of the back, preceded by another on the side.
There is an inferior series of small tubercles, and on the latter part of the whorl, some low, coarse spiral ridges.
The lip spreads broadly and is much thickened within.
Posteriorly it extends above the apex.
The throat is smooth.
Length 88, diam.
75 mm.
Length of aperture (measured from end of canal to upper end of the lip) 97 mm.
The type is an almost perfect but dwarf specimen.
Several fragmentary specimens are much larger, the best one about 15 cm.
long.
The outer lip of another indicates a length of perhaps 20 cm.
It was apparently the mere size, rather than any close correspondence of form or sculpture, which determined Gabb's reference of the form to S. gigas.
It is related to S. costatus and S. goliath, the spire being much like the latter, which however, has the outer lip far more broadly expanding, and the upper margin quite different.
In S. costatus the lip falls short of the height of the spire, but in S. dominator it rises above the apex.
Type No.
2579.
Potamides gastrodon n. sp.
The shell is rather short, conic, the whorls closely and regularly sculptured with axial riblets crossed by three spiral cords, forming small tubercles at the intersections.
There .are a few inconspicuous varices.
Last whorl rises at the aperture, and has a prominent, rounded varix on the left side; the cavity of the whorl at this place having three well developed and a minute fourth tooth within the outer wall, a fold on the parietal wall near the posterior angle, and a plait on the columella.
Last half of the last whorl is broken away.
As broken, the type measures: Length 22.5, diam.
11 mm.
The type and three other broken specimens are No.
2599, A. N. S. P. Turritella sulcigyrata n. sp.
Turritella planigijrata Guppy, Gabb, Tr.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 240.
Not of Guppy.
This species is closely related to T. gatimensis Conrad, but differs by being constantly less excavated along the suture, though there is a rather deep sutural channel.
This leaves a broad median band in strong relief on the whorls, which have spiral sculpture of spiral cords and threads.
The inconspicuous growth-lines arch backward.
Length 54, diam.
13.8 mm.
; 14 whorls.
The specimen has lost the last whorl.
Type No.
3203, A. N. S. P. We have not been able to compare the type of Guppy's T. p anigyrata, but his description and figure certainly do not support Gabb's identification.
Guppy has remarked, however, that his figure of T. planigyrata "shows only the general shape."
T. sulci gyrata is an abundant species.
Turritella arata Guppy, in Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XIX, p. 319,.
PI.
28, fig.
3 from the Oligocene of Haiti, is not contained in the collections studied.
Caecum anellifer n. n. Coecum annulatum Gabb, Trans.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 211 ; Journ.
A. N. S.
Phila., VIII, p. 363, PI.
46, fig.
59.
Not of Brown.
The single specimen is not mature, but it may be recognized by the sculpture.
There are about 25 convex rings, more emphatic posteriorly, lower anteriorly, their intervals much narrower than the ribs, crossed and cut into pits by numerous low axial ribs, which appear very weakly on the rings.
Septum rises in a point near the convex side.
Length 1.95, cUam.
0.6 mm.
The rings of C. crassicostum Gabb are very much stronger, the intervals wider, so that, with a single example of each at hand, it does not seem prudent to unite them as one species.
Rissoa epulata n. sp.
The shell is globose-conic and has a relatively large circular umbilicus; spire short, straightly conic, of moderately convex whorls, the last whorl inflated.
Sculpture of rounded vertical ribs about equal to their intervals, 17 on the last whorl, diminishing and soon disappearing after passing over the periphery.
In the intercostal intervals there are very low spiral cords, six above the periphery, and the base has four much stronger and more separated cords.
A broad and thick varix strengthens the outer lip.
The aperture is roundly ovate; peristome continuous.
Length 1.25, diam.
0.9 mm.
; 4f whorls.
Type No.
3167, A. N. S. P. The short form and large umbilicus are the chief characteristics of this species.
Belongs to the section Apicularia of Tryon's arrangement.
Bissoa (Alvania^ proavia n. sp.
The shell is imperforate, rather plump, conic; first 2| whorls are smooth, convex, and form a somewhat acuminate summit.
Following whorls have latticed sculpture of rather narrow vertical ribs, which pass over the periphery but are obsolete over most of the base, crossed by spiral cords a little narrower than the ribs, and forming small nodes at the intersections.
On the penult whorl there are three spiral cords, the upper one at the shoulder.
On the last whorl there are six spiral cords, the second from above forming the periphery, the lower two smooth, the others passing over ribs.
Some very minute spiral striae are visible in the intercostal spaces.
The aperture is nearly circular, the lip strengthened bj^ a strong varix.
Length 1.35, diam.
0.9 mm.
; 5 whorls.
Type No.
3169, A. N. S. P. This species stands close to Rissoa lipeus Dall,but it differs by the acute apex and details of sculpture.
Hipponix otiosa n. sp.
The shell is oval, obliquely conic, with the apex curving backward nearly over the posterior margin.
The apical portion sits cap-like at the summit, and is probably smooth, though somewhat worn, the original surface being mostly removed.
The later growth is rudely ribbed radially with 14 ribs in a young specimen 5 mm.
long, 18 in the largest specimen, about 9.3 mm.
long.
The ribs are wide, sculptured with rather rough growth-lines, and near the periphery with coarse radial striae.
The border is scalloped by the ribs.
Length about 9.3, Avidth 8, height 5.5 mm.
Type and two other specimens are No.
2887, A. N. S. P. Natica finitima n. sp.
The shell resembles N. canrena in shape.
The narrow and short spire is rather acute, of 5 convex whorls.
The suture is very narrowly channelled; last whorl very convex throughout.
Umbilicus is formed as in canrena except that the spiral pillar is decidedly smaller and terminates in a much smaller columellar callus.
Parietal callusis heavy.
The surface shows light growi;h-lines, some of which are slightly stronger below the suture, but far less so than in N. canrena.
Alt.
23.5, diam.
24 mm.
(type). "
23.5, " 26.2 " (largest specimen).
2 Trans.
Wagn.
Inst., Ill, p. 339, PL 20, fig.
86.
Pliocene of the Caloosahatchie, also recent, Watling Island, Bahamas.
This species is easily to be distinguished from N. canrena by the noticeably channelled suture, absence of subsutural plication, and the characters of the umbilicus.
Gabb grouped them with the .specimens of A'', canrena.
The type and seven other specimens are No.
2875, A. N. S. P. Aclis (Amblyspira) bartschiana n. sp.
The shell is long and slender, smooth.
Nuclear whorls lost; the following whorls are slightly concave, the suture prominent as a sharp, low ridge; the penult whorl has an angle projecting inconspiciously just above the suture, last whorl is sharply angular in front, the angle entirely disappearing on its last half.
The aperture is small, ovate, diagonal.
Peristome continuous across the parietal wall, the columella somewhat thickened, simple.
Length 3.6, diam.
0.95, length of aperture 0.75 mm.
; 10 postnuclear whorls.
Type No.
3016, A. N. S. P. A characteristic little shell, named for Dr. Paul Bartch, whose industry and acumen in the classification of Pyramidellidoe are bringing order into this once chaotic group.
Pyramidella forulata famelica n. subsp.
The shell closely resembles P. canaliculata, but differs by its narrower contour, smaller sutural channel and by having faint trace?
of spiral striation.
Last whorl has a small peripheral carina, but only the weak trace of a furrow below it.
There is fine crenulation below the suture and a narrow umibilicus bounded by a cordlike fasciole.
Length 10.5, diam.
3 mm.
; 13 whorls (apex entire).
The shell is somewhat narrower than the Bowden form which we take to be the adult stage of P. forulata Guppy,^ yet a thorough comparison of good series may show that there are transitions.
The type of forulata is, we believe, a quite young shell.
Turbonilla (Pyrgiscus) beatula nsp.
Shell rather rapidly tapering, the whorls slightly prominent and convex below the suture, elsewhere nearly flat, with sculpture of vertical, rounded ribs about equal to the intervals, and extending from suture to suture.
Intervals minutely striate vertically, the striae cut by incised spiral lines, of which there are eight on the penult whorl.
A few similar spirals may be seen on the otherwise 3 Pyramidella forulata Guppy, in Dall, Proc.
U. S. N.
Mus., XIX, p. 315, PI.
'28, fig.
13. smooth base.
There are nineteen ribs on the penult whorl.
Aperture somewhat trapezoidal, the columella slightly sinuous, thickened.
Length 3.8, diam.
1, length of aperture 0.75 mm.
; 8 post-embryonic whorls.
Type No.
3026, A. N. S. P. Turbonilla (Pyrgiscusi santodomingensis n. sp.
The shell tapers very slowly.
Nuclear and early neanic whorls wanting.
The rest have rather strong, rounded, straight vertical ribs, which become slightly retractive on the last two whorls, and part of them continue very weakly over the base.
There are 17 ribs on the penult whorl.
There are five (5) spiral impressed lines between sutures, not crossing the summits of the ribs.
On the base there are about 6 spiral impressed lines, the lower three continuous.
The aperture is especially short; columella very strongly folded and thickened.
Length 6.4, diam.
1.35 mm.
; 10| whorls remaining.
Type No.
3034, A. N. S. P. Longer, more slender than T. dominicensis, with fewer ribs and fewer spirals which are more deeply impressed.
It differs more fundamentally by the very strong columellar fold.
Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) galeata n. sp.
The shell is very slender, with a large helicoid nucleus; next whorl sculptured with numerous ribs, subsequent whorls with fewer vertical rounded ribs running from suture to suture, nearly as wide as the concave intervals, which under a high power show a faint woven texture.
Sixteen ribs are on the penult whorl.
On the last whorl there is an inconspicuous spiral depression at the anterior termination of the ribs.
The base has some faint spiral impressed lines.
The aperture is ovate; columella somewhat thickened, distinctly folded above.
Length 2.9, diam.
0.55, length of aperture 0.4 mm.
; 1\ post-nuclear whorls.
Type No.
3028, A. N. S. P. Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) peraequa nsp.
Embryonic whorls helicoid.
Subsequent whorls with sculpture of numerous rounded vertical ribs equal to the concave intervals, both ribs becoming weaker and terminating a little distance short of the lower suture; the concave intervals also terminating there, but rather abruptly.
There are 22 ribs on the penult whorl.
Base smooth.
The aperture is ovate, columella very little thickened, somewhat sinuous.
Length 2.6, diam.
0.65, length of aperture 0.6 mm.
; 6f postembryonic whorls.
Type No.
3027, A. N. S. P. The spire of the nuclear shell is rather high for a snail of this section.
Turbonilla (Nisiturris T) angustula n n. Turbonilla angusta Gabb, Trans.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 225.
Not Chrysallida angusta Cpr.
1864.
The embryonic whorls are lost, with one or more of the neanic.
Subsequent whorls have straight, rounded, slightly protractive ribs, w^hich do not reach to the lower suture, the lower ends of the concave intervals abruptly limited but rounded, and showing very faint traces of spiral stria, in part obsolete.
On the penult whorl there are 18 ribs.
The rounded base has growth-lines and faint spiral lines.
The upper whorls are convex, later ones flattened, the suture rather deeply impressed.
The columella is very feebly sinuous, somewhat thickened.
Length 5.7, diam.
1.35 mm.
; 10 whorls remaining.
Type No.
3025, A. N. S. P. G.bb's name has been previously used in the subgenus Pyrgi sous.
His statement that the shell is ''without any trace of spiral lines" is inexact, since faint spirals may be seen under the compound microscope, though not visible with an ordinary hand lens.
Turbonilla (Nisiturris) aratibacillum n. sp.
The shell is small r and more slender than T. angustula, with sculpture of rounded, vertica ribs extending barely to the lower suture of each whorl and the periphery of the last, the lower ends of the smooth intervals not sharply defined.
There are 13 ribs on the penult whorl.
Base smooth.
Columella straight, with dilated edge.
Length 3.3, diam.
0.75 mm.
; 9 post-embryonic whorls.
Type No.
3036, A. N. S. P. The embryonic shell is not perfect, but seems to have been of the bulimoid form.
The shell is less slender than T. pertenuis.
Turbonilla (Nisiturris) insititia n. sp.
The shell is extremely slender, with embryonic shell of bulimoid shape; subsequent whorls at first convex, becoming flattened in the lower part, sculptured with strong, rounded vertical ribs not quite as wide as the smooth concave interval which do not quite extend to the suture below, and terminate abruptly at the periphery.
There are ten ril^s on the penult whorl.
Base smooth.
The aperture is trapezoidal; columella verj' slightly sinuous.
Length 2.8, diam.
0.5, length of aperture 0.4 mm.
; 9^ post-nuclear whorls.
Type No.
3024, A. N. S. P. This is the most slender of the known Santo Domingan species, further distinguished by its few coarse ribs.
Turbonilla (Nisiturris) undecimcostata n. sp.
The shell is slender with bulimoid nucleus; subsequent whorls convex, sculptured with narrow, straight vertical ribs separated by concave intervals about twice as wide as the ribs, and under strong magnification showing extremely fine and faint vertical and spiral striae.
The concave intervals terminate rather abruptly just above the suture and at the periphery.
On the penult whorl there are eleven ribs.
The aperture is subtrapezoidal.
Columella thick and very slightly sinuous.
Length 3.3, diam.
0.7, length of aperture 0.5 mm.
; 9| post-nuclear whorls.
Type No.
3023, A. N. S. P. Turbonilla (Nisiturris") pertenuis Gabb.
Turbonilla pertenuis Gabb, Trans.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 226.
An extremely slender species.
Nuclear shell bulimoid; subsequent whorls at first rather strongly convex gradually becoming less convex, the lower ones somewhat flattened laterally, with sculpture of strong, rounded vertical ribs parted by slightly wider, smooth, concave intervals, the rounded lower ends of which are a little above the lower suture, leaving a very narrow smooth band on each whorl.
There are twelve ribs on the penult whorl.
Base smooth, convex, the columella is thin and slightly sinuous.
Length 4, diam.
0.7, length of aperture 0.6 mm.
; 11 post-nuclear whorls.
Type No.
3030, A. N. S. P. Turbonilla (Nisiturris) contexta n. sp.
The shell is very slender with bulimoid embryo; subsequent whorls convex at first, the later ones distinctly flattened, sculptured with vertical rounded ribs, 15 on the penult whorl, slightly narrower than the concave intervals, and extending from suture to suture.
Under the compound microscope the intervals are seen to have a minute sculpture of vertical striae cut into beads by close spiral-lines.
On the last whorl the ribs and intervals do not end abruptly.
The base has weak spiral impressed lines.
The aperture is rhombic; columella thin and very slightly sinuous.
Length 3.7, diam.
0.75, length of aperture 0.6 mm.
; 9 post-nuclear Avhorls.
Type No.
3035, A. N. S. P. The microscopic sculpture is a distinctive feature of this species.
Turbonilla (Tragula) egressa n. sp.
The shell is slender, with a depressed-helicoid nuclear shell, fully half immersed.
Following whorls are subangular and overhang the suture, and are flattened above the angle.
Sculpture of rounded vertical riblets as wide as their intervals on the first two whorls, but gradually becoming more spaced, so that on the last 3 whorls the intervals are wider.
First three post-nuclear whorls have in the intercostal intervals a single rounded cord on the angle, another very weak one below the upper suture.
On the next two whorls there is an additional cord above the angle, another just above the suture, and the subsutural cord is obsolete.
Last whorl has the vertical ribs extending nearly to the axis, the intervals crossed by a spiral cord at, another above the periphery, and two strong cords on the base, followed by about four faint ones, very low and difficult to see.
The aperture is ovate; columella thin, straight above, but showing a small, sharp, oblique plait in an obliquely basal view.
Length 2.5, diam.
0.75, length of aperture 0.65 mm.
; 6^ postnuclear whorls.
Type No.
3095.
Odostomia (Odostomia) ingloria n. sp.
Shell oblong-conic with obtuse summit, the first whorl convex, turned down at the tip; following whorls fiat, with the suture rather deeply impressed.
Last whorl rounded peripherally'^, narrowly rimate.
Aperture ovate; columella a little thickened, bearing a small oblique plait.
Surface plain.
Length 2.05, diam.
1 mm.
; 5 whors.
Type No.
3087, A. N. S. P. ^ An allied form, which may be called 0. ingloria calvata differs by its shorter whorls, the last one noticeably subangular in front.
Length 2.5, diam.
L05 mm.
; slightly over 6 whorls.
Type No.
3088, A. N. S. P. Odostomia santodomingensis n. n. Aclis polila Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 226.
Not Odostomia poliia of Bivona or of Pease.
The form is somewhat cylinclric.
The surface is marked with very fine growth-Unes only.
Whorls are weakly convex except the first which is rather strongly so.
The suture is channelled, the whorl being excavated above it, narrowly horizontal and carinate close below.
There is a very slight median prominence of the columella, hardly noticeable.
The tip of the spire is turned in, nucleus immersed.
The aperture is rather oblique.
Length 2.6, diam.
0.9 mm.
; 6 whorls.
T>T)e No.
3084, A. N. S. P. This species and the following one scarcely agree with the characters of Spiroclimax, and the channelled suture appears to remove them from typical Odostomia.
They seem to form a new subgenus of Odostomia.
As Doctor Bartsch has a general work on east x\merican Pyramidellidce under way, we prefer to leave the final classification in his able hands.
A second specimen is more solid than the figured type but otherwise similar.
Odostomia myrmecoon n. sp.
The shell is structurally very similar to 0. santodomingensis, from which it differs by the shorter, more obese outline and the slightly sinuous columella.
Length 2.25, diam.
1 mm.
; 5| whorls.
Type No.
3085, A. N. S. P. Odostomia (Eulimastoma) pyrgulopsis n. sp.
The shell is openly perforate, long-conic, solid, marked with faint gro"wth-lines only.
(Nuclear whorls presumably immersed), the first rounded above, turned in at the tip; following whorls fiat, separated by a narrowly channelled suture, caused by the revolution of the suture just below a peripheral angle; on the last two whorls the suture descends more, leaving the peripheral angle, projecting prominently.
It weakens on the latter part of the last whorl.
The margin of the umbilical opening is rounded.
Aperture is ovate.
Columella thin, concave, having a small, obliquely receding plait above.
Length 1.8, diam.
0.7 mm.
; 6| whorls.
Type No.
3092, A. N. S. P. There is considerable variation in the degree of descent of the last two whorls, and the point where the more rapid descent begins.
In some shells the penult whorl does not descend more rapidly than those preceding it.
This gives the shell a contour somewhat different.
This little shell resembles Pyrgulopsis in shape.
It also has much in common with Aclis (Amhlyspira) 'prominens Guppy of the Bowden bed, but we can find no columellar plait in that species, which moreover is decidedly larger.
Odostomia (Eulimastoma) bathyraphe n. sp.
The shell resembles 0. pyrgulopsis in umbilicus, surface and general appearance, but differs as follows: The last whorl is more strongly carinate; the whole shell is wider, summit more obtuse, whorls less numerous.
The tip of the first whorl is turned in, nuclear whorls being presumably wholly immersed.
The suture is deeply channelled from its beginning.
Length 1.5, diam.
0.8 mm.
; 4| whorls.
Type No.
3091, A. N. S. P. As in 0. pyrgulopsis, the columellar plait appears much larger in an oblique view than in the face view drawn in the figures.
Odostomia (Evalea?)
vexator n. sp.
The shell is somewhat cylindric but tapers slowly upwards to a very obtuse summit, which turns in at the tip, the nuclear whorls being immersed.
Subsequent whorls are flattened, excavated above the suture, very narrowly shouldered below it, with sculpture of fine lines of growth and numerous (about 15 on the penult whorl) unequally spaced, very low and relatively coarse spiral striae.
The aperture is somewhat rhombic; columella thin, with a strong, short plait.
Length 1.9, diam.
0.6 mm.
; 5| whorls.
Type No.
3086, A. N. S. P. By Doctor Bartsch's key we bring this species into the subgenus Evalea.
The deeply excavated suture and somewhat coarser spiral sculpture are differential characters, the suture, summit and general shape of the shell agreeing with 0. santodoniingensis.
We are therefore in doubt as to its subgeneric place.
The columellar plait shows fully only in a somewhat oblique view, as it recedes somewhat.
Besides the tj^pe and a broken specimen, there is a larger shell, length 2.2, diam.
0.75 mm., otherwise similar.
Odostomia (Goniodostomia) superans n. sp.
The shell is imperforate, oblong-conic, terminating in a very obtuse summit.
Embryonic whorls immersed.
First visible whorl is strongly convex, its initial part ascending.
Following whorls are flat, separated by a channelled suture, angular above and below it, the lower angle becoming more prominent on the penult whorl, forming a keel which continues at the periphery of the last whorl, which is rather strongly concave above it, and slightly so below.
The surface is marked with faint growth-lines and many unequal spiral striae.
The aperture is ovate, somewhat oblique; columella thick, bearing a stout oblique plait above.
Length 1.85, diam.
0.9, length of aperture 0.6 mm.
; very nearly 5 whorls.
Type No.
3096, A. N. S. P. This species is related to 0. circumvinda, but is wider, with a stronger peripheral carina, a stronger columellar plait, and not so many whorls.
The spiral sculpture is indicated rather than drawn in the figures of this species and the next.
The spiral strise are very low, rounded, unequal and unevenly spaced, but somewhat coarse and barely visible with a good hand lens.
As it cannot readily be fitted into any of the sections of Odostomia, we propose the new section Goniodostomia, for Odostomias without axial ribs, having a peripheral keel and spiral striation, the columellar plait emerging, nucleus wholly immersed.
Type 0. superans.
Odostomia (Goniodostomia) circumvinota n. sp.
The shell is rimate, slowly tapering to the obtuse summit, the embryonic whorls immersed, first visible whorl convex, turned in at the tip; subsequent whorls flat, narrowly excavated above and narrowly shouldered below the suture, which is therefore deeply channelled; last whorl angular or subcarinate at the periphery.
Sculpture of faint growth-lines and rather sparse unequal, low, spiral strise.
Aperture ovate; columella thin, bearing a short fold above.
Length 1.75, diam.
0.65, aperture 0.5 mm.
; 5f whorls.
Type No.
3097, A. N. S. P. Somewhat like 0. vexator, but the suture is decidedly more channelled and the last whorl is carinate.
In shape but not in sculpture it resembles the subgenus Eulimastoma.
It is more slender than 0. superans.
Odostomia (Parthenina 1) cyclocephala n. sp.
Shell lanceolate, thin, with a large helicoid nucleus of 1| whorls; subsequent whorls sculptured with small vertical ribs narrower than their intervals, becoming obsolete at the periphery; over ribs and intervals there are delicately engraved spiral lines, of which 17 may 13 be counted on the penult whorl.
The whole base is closely, finely striate spirally.
Aperture is long-ovate, acute above, the columella with a small but distinct fold.
Length 2.6, diam.
0.6 mm.
; 5| post-nuclear whorls.
Type No.
3033, A. N. S. P. This species has a spirally striate base, as in the subgenus Besla of Dall & Bartsch, but it has not the special sculpture above the 'periphery described for the species of that group.
Odostomia (Odostomidea) bartschiana u. sp.
The shell is oblong, with a rounded nucleus more than half immersed.
Subsequent whorls have few strong ribs, about 13 on the first post-nuclear whorl, not so many on the next, where they are slightly protractive; eight vertical ribs on the last whorl.
Intercostal spaces very wide, concave, showing most minute spiral striae in some places.
Suture somewhat sinuated by the ribs.
The ovate aperture has a continuous peristome, the columella bearing a strong central plait.
Length 2, diam.
0.7 mm.
; 4^ post-nuclear whorls.
Type No.
3032, A. N. S. P The very small number of ribs with wide intervals appears to indicate a section of subgenus distinct from Odostomella B. D. & D., which may be called Odostomidea.
Odostomia (Chrysallida) dulcis nsp.
Meneslho dathrata Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 226.
Not Odostomia dathrata Jeffreys, Ann.
Mag.
N. H. II, 1848, p. 345.
The nucleus is more than half immersed.
Subsequent whorls are convex, with a deeply impressed suture.
Sculpture of numerous rounded vertical ribs equal to their intervals, gradually fading out at the periphery of the last whorl.
These ribs are crossed by six slightly smaller spiral cords between sutures; the intersections are not noticeably nodose.
On the base there are seven cords, and there they are broader and more crowded their intervals narrow.
The aperture is long-ovate.
Columella concave and a little thickened below, passing into a moderate fold above.
Length 2.9, diam.
1, length of aperture 1 mm.
; 5 post-nuclear whorls.
Melanella astuta n. n. Eulirna robusta Gabb, Trans.
Am.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 227.
Not of A. Adams, 1861.
The shell is very slightly curved, smooth and glossy, the whorls nearly flat, rather short, showing a bluish-gray band above the middle; suture distinct, liut slightly oblique.
Aperture short, piriform, the columella strongly thickened.
Length 4.2, diani.
1.2, length of aperture 1.1 nun.
; 12 whorls.
Type No.
3009, A. X. S. P. Melanella gabbiana n. sp.
The shell is straight, smooth and glossy, of barely convex whorls, the suture rather indistinct.
There is an impressed protractive groove on the penult whorl, left by a former peristome.
Aperture narrowly ovate.
Outer lip sinuous, protractive.
Columella strongly thickened.
Length 4.2, diam.
1.25, length of aperture 1.2 mm.
; 11 whorls.
Type No.
3012, A. N. S. P. Though of nearly the same dimensions as M. astuta, this species differs in shape.
Strombiformis sarissiformis n. n. Eulima acicularis Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 227.
Not of A. Adams, 1861.
The shell is slender, the diameter contained about 5 times in the length.
Whorls of the spire nearly flat, smooth except for several unequally spaced growth-arrest marks on each.
Aperture very narrow, lanceolate.
Columella thickened.
The tip of the spire and the outer lip are broken.
Length 12, diam.
2.2, length of aperture 3.3 mm.
; 12 whorls.
T\Te No.
3010, A. N. S. P. Strombiformis praelubrica n. sp.
Very slender, the diameter contained about 4| times in the length, whorls hardly convex, very smooth, but showing faintly a few marks of growth-arrest.
Aperture narrow, lanceolate, acuminate above Outer lip receding slightly downward.
Columella rather strongly thickened.
Length 5.1, diam.
1.1, length of aperture 1.4 mm.
; 11 whorls.
T\T)e No.
3011, A. N. S. P. Strombiformis ischnon n. sp.
The shell is very similar to M. prcelubrica, but differs by its more slender shape, the diameter contained five times in the length.
The aperture is narrower, and the columella more thickened.
Length 4.1, diam.
0.8, length of aperture 1.1 mm.
; 10 whorls.
Type No.
3013, A. N. S. P. Strombiformis (Subularia) stimulus n. sp.
The shell is minute, acuminate, showing very delicate, forwardly arched growth-lines and several slightly impressed lines of growtharrest.
Whorls moderately convex.
Suture distinctly impressed, oblique.
Aperture lanceolate, the columella a little thickened and straightened.
Length 1.6, diam.
0.6, length of aperture 0.6 mm.
; 7 whorls.
Type No.
3093, A. N. S. P. The shell is pale gray with a rather wide opaque white band below the suture.
Probably belongs to the genus or subgenus Subularia.
The lines of growth-arrest are all sublateral.
Astrsea domingensis n. sp.
Aslralium longispinum Lam., Gabb, Tr.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 242.
A species resembling A. americana in shape.
The flat whorls have sculpture of numerous (about 9) low spiral cords, and extremely numerous, fine and low, protractive riblets.
At the periphery there are slender, straight spines projecting above the suture, about 10 on the last whorl.
Height and diameter about 16 mm.
as preserved.
Type No.
2827, A. N. S. P. The specimen is an external mould of the spire, or part of it, in a hard rock.
It differs so conspicuously from A. longispina that we are surprised at Gabb's identification.
The spines, on the next to the last whorl preserved, are slightly over 2 mm.
long.
It appears to be somewhat related to Astralium chipolanum Dall.
Circulus domingensis n. n. Cydostrema striata Gabh, Tr.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 242.
Not Circulus striatus Phil.
Eight spiral threads may be counted on the penult whorl just behind the aperture, seven on the next earlier whorl.
On the last whorl the cords become widely separated by flat intervals on the upper surface, are weak and inconspicuous at and a short distance above the periphery, but remain strong and regular on the base.
Alt.
2.25, diam.
4.8 mm.
Though larger than the recent species of Circulus, with the spire a little more raised, we can find no differences of generic importance.
Type No.
2835.
Discopsis (■?)
naso n. n. Adeorbis carinata Gabb, Tr.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 243.
Not A. carinata A.
Ad., 1863.
The first two whorls are convex above; the third is flattened below the suture, the flat area bounded by an angle, and a second, less conspicuous spiral angulation runs above the periphery.
The penult whorl is rounded, but shows the top of the peripheral carina in the suture.
Last whorl is convex above and below the acutely carinate periphery, and a carina also bounds the umbilicus.
The peripheral carina has numerous little prominences, inconspicuous and regularly spaced.
On the base there are unequal radial wrinkles around the umbilicus.
The aperture is somewhat oblique and the peristome projects forward in a point at the periphery.
Alt.
2.7, diam.
4.5 mm.
; diam.
of umbilicus 0.9 mm.
; 5 whorls.
The generic place of this species is doubtful.
Type No.
2832.
Dentalium sagittarii n. sp.
The shell is smooth, almost circular in section, but slightly flattened between concave and convex sides, rather strongly and evenly bent, very slowly increasing in size, the greatest diameter contained about twelve times in the length.
Not sculptured, but very oblique growth-lines are discernable.
Length 13, greatest (lateral) diameter 1.1, antero-posterior diameter 1 mm.
This species is more arched than D. macilentum, which is compressed from side to side.
D. schumoi differs by its close annulation.
Leda extricata n. n. Leda acuta Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 25,5.
Not of Conrad, 1832.
The shell is rather plump with nearly median beaks and acuminate posterior end, polished, strongly and closely sculptured with even, blunt-edged concentric riblets, equal to their smooth intervals.
On the rather large escutcheon, which is indistinctly defined by a slight furrow, the riblets are a little sinuous, slightly emphasized at the sinuation, close and straight near the hinge-line.
The lanceolate lunule has a series of short, oblique folds, stronger and more spaced than the adjacent riblets.
Rostrum acute, slightly recurved.
Hinge with long and acute V-shaped teeth, 15 in the anterior, about 20 in the posterior series.
Length 8.7, alt.
5, diam.
4 mm.
Type No.
2655, A. N. S. P. This abundant species is longer than L. pelteUa DalV with a longer rostrum and quite different lunule and escutcheon.
Leda pelteUa was based upon (1) the figure of a specimen from Bowden, and (2) L. acuta Gabb not Conrad.
As the figure is a more concrete indication than the second reference, we restrict L. pelteUa * Trans.
Wagn.
Inst., Ill, p. q79, PL 32, fig.
5. to the Bowden shell.
Gabb's L. acuta is certainly a distinct species, as we have ascertained by the examination of over a hundred examples of each.
It is related to L. dodona Dall, which differs in several details of form and sculpture.
Area (Scapharca) sobrina n. n. Area consobrina Sowerby, Q.
Jour.
Geol.
Soc, VI, 1849, p. 52, PI.
X, fig.
12.
Not A. consobrina Orbigny, 1843, or of Guppy.
A.
(Anadara) consobrina Shy., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 253.
The shell is nearly equivalve, oblong, strongly inflated, tapering posteriorly, the anterior end somewhat oblique.
Beaks moderate, mesially impressed, situated at about the anterior fourth of the length.
The cardinal area is rather narrow, marked by several concentric grooves.
The left valve is slightly larger, with sculpture of 33 rather high ribs with abrupt sides.
Except on the posterior dorsal slope the ribs are closely sculptured with transverse granules, which are continued as thin raised striae over the intervals.
The anterior and posterior ribs are divided by a groove along the summits.
The right valve is similar, but the granules on the ribs are almost obsolete.
The hinge has 29 teeth in front, 40 behind, the row being continuous except for a small irregularity.
Border very deeply crenated.
Length 50, alt.
30, diam.
29 mm. "
48, " 30, " of right valve, 14 mm.
Cotypes No.
2737, A. N. S. P. Area actinophora Dall has more ribs, is narrower posteriorly, and differs in proportions.
A. sohrina is not very closely related to A. halidonata Dall of the Jamaican (Bowden) Oligocene, which we have not found in the Santo Domingan collection.
It is very much like A. dariensis Brn.
& Pils., but the valves are more convex and the details of rib sculpture differ.
It also is a larger species.
Area (Scapharca) copiosa n. sp.
The shell is oblong, somewhat trapezoidal, strongly inflated.
Left valve slightly larger.
Beaks impressed in the middle, in front of the anterior fourth.
Cardinal area moderately wide, marked with about 4 grooves on the anterior, 5 or 6 on the posterior part.
Sculpture of 30 ribs, in the left valve about equal to the deep intervals; at the anterior end the ribs have flat, or somewhat concave summits.
Both ribs and interstices are crossed by fine, close concentric threads, which give place to mere growth-lines on the posterior area, where the ribs weaken.
The right valve is like the left except that the concentric threads are not quite so well developed.
Tooth-row continuous, but an enlarged tooth separates the anterior series of 30 teeth from the posterior series of 36; the length of the two being as 3 : 4, or as 2 : 3.
Margins are deeply fluted, as usual.
Length 60, alt.
37, diam.
36.5 mm.
Type No.
2731, A. N. S. P. This shell is related to A .
halidonata, but it is much narrower, the ribs are not grooved and not so numerous, the beaks are smaller, the cardinal area has more grooves, etc.
In ^4.
anliquata L. the beaks are turned forward less, the anterior angle is more produced, and the cardinal area has fewer grooves.
Both A. halidonata and A. antiquata have impressed lines or grooves along the posterior ribs, in large examples, which are wanting in A. copiosa.
Area (Scapharca) devexa n. sp.
The shell is somewhat trapezoidal, much inflated, with wide, moderately prominent beaks which are widely separated by a rather wide, fiat cardinal area.
Anterior and posterior ends oblique, roughly parallel, the anterior convex, posterior somewhat straightened; basal margin strongly convex.
Sculpture of 26 square ribs somewhat narrower than their intervals, unevenly granose, the granules transverse, subobsolete in places, and on the posterior ribs weaker on the right valve, some of the anterior ribs are bifid in the left valve.
Intervals sharply striated transversely.
The cardinal area has many regular grooves over the whole poster'or part, but anteriorly only the central part is grooved, the sides being smooth.
The anterior end of the hinge line is strongly angular.
Tooth-row continuous.
Length 42, alt.
30, diam.
31 mm.
Type No.
2727, A. N. S. P. Valves of 5 other individuals.
This species has a characteristic form.
The close, regular grooves of the cardinal area, which has smooth sides anteriorly, is also notable.
Area (Soapharoa) intumulata n. sp.
The shell is somewhat trapezoidal, inflated, with mesially impressed, beaks slightly before the anterior fourth.
Cardinal area rather narrow, with a few grooves, bounded by a narrow ridge.
Sculpture, in left valve, of 35 ribs about as wide as their intervals, crossed by concentric threads which are slender in the intervals, widened on the ribs.
The right valve is like the left except that the concentric sculpture is slightly weaker.
A few of the anterior ribs have a central sulcus.
Hinge rather narrow, the tooth-row continuous, of 23 and 29 teeth.
Length 32, alt.
19, diam.
of left valve 9 mm.
(type). "
33.5, " 20, " '' " " 11.25 " Type No.
2859, A. N. S. P. Besides a number of valves agreeing with the above description, there are two entirely similar except that they have 32 ribs.
Area (Scapharca) proletaria n. sp.
Shell oblong-trapezoidal, wider posteriorly, inflated, with rather large umbones, beaks at the anterior fourth.
Cardinal area very narrow^ and bounded by a narrow ridge posterior of the beaks, wider and triangular in front of them.
Ends of the hinge line angular.
Anterior end rounded, posterior oblique.
Sculpture of 35 ribs about equal to the furrows, in the left valve closely granose except on the posterior slope; interstices sharply but irregularly striate transversely.
Right valve with some of the anterior ribs partly granose.
Hinge with a continuous row of 15 + 31 teeth.
Margin fluted.
Length of left valve 30, alt.
21, diam.
10 mm.
Type No.
2965, A. N. S. P. There are 4 right and 4 left valves of this species, not paired.
It is a decidedly broader shell than the preceding species but otherwise related.
Area dolaticosta n. sp.
The shell is extremely plump, almost equilateral, and equivalve.
The ends of the hinge are slightly produced ; posterior margin somewhat straightened, anterior and basal margins rounded.
Beaks very prominent and full.
Cardinal area broad (almost wholly concealed by hard shale).
Sculpture of 25 high ribs bearing rather large, irregular nodes lengthened in the direction of the ribs.
It is similar in right and left valves.
Length 65, alt.
63, diam.
66 mm.
Type No.
2738, A. N. S. P., from the shale of Chiriqui collected by Dr. John Evans.
Two specimens of this very distinct ark were found with the lot of A. chiriquiensis.
The shape and sculpture are characteristic.
The shale bed at Chiriqui may perhaps be equivalent to the lower or lignitic bed at Tower N on the Canal and therefore Oligocene.
Area chiriquiensis, Gabb, is probably A. patrica, Sowb.
A. grandis also occurs in Santo Domingo.
Area (Scapharca) eoccopleura n. sp.
A small, very obese nearly equivalve species with the postbasal angle somewhat produced, a rounded angle running to it, the beaks full and prominent, curving well forward, at about the anterior fourth of the hinge line.
Sculpture of 25 ribs, those of the left valve all closely granose, the grains rounded on the convexity, transverse towards the lower margin.
Intervals sharply and finely striate transversely.
On the anterior end the ribs are wider and more spaced.
The right valve is similar except that it is very slightly smaller, and the granulation is weaker on and near the posterior ridge.
Cardinal area is rather wide, with several concentric angulated grooves.
Hinge line is rather short, with about 44 teeth.
Length 20.5, alt.
19.5, diam.
19 mm. "
23.5, " 22, " of left valve 12 mm.
Type No.
2734, A. N. S. P. This prettily sculptured species, known from numerous specimens, stands near A. santarosana Dall, but it differs by the smaller number of ribs, the anterior ones not being mesially grooved.
Area alcima Dall of the Pliocene has more ribs.
In A. rhomhea Hanley, A. chemnitzi Phil, and A. piUieri Dall, of the Pleistocene and recent faunas, the beaks turn forward less than in A. coccopleura.
Area tolepia saxea n. subsp.
The shell is decidedly narrower than A. tolepia, but with substantially the same sculpture; 33 ribs.
Length 31, alt.
24, diam.
23.3 mm.
Type No.
2742, A. N. S. P. It is less abundant in the collection than A. tolepia.
Area tolepia scapularis n. subsp.
The posterior end is straightened, angular and somewhat produced above, subangular below, 33 ribs.
Length 29, alt.
22.5, diam.
21 mm.
Type No.
2739, A. N. S. P. • Area tolepia erassicardinis n. subsp.
Similar to the typical form except that the hinge is very thick, 32 ribs.
Length 30, alt.
27, diam.
26 mm.
T\T3e No.
2747, A. N. S. P. Area cyclica n. sp.
Shell subcircular, plump, very thick, equivalve, with rather prominent nearly contiguous beaks at the anterior third of the length.
Cardinal area extremely narrow behind the beaks, short but broader and triangular in front, with about two grooves.
Posterior end broader than the anterior, an angle at its junction with the hinge 190 PROCEEDESGS OF THE AC.U)EMT OF [April, line.
Ribs 35, about as wide as the inten-als, granose in the left valve, the graniilation obsolete in the posterior half of the right valve.
Teeth 13 and 34. an irregularity where the anterior and posterior series meet.
Edge fluted as usual.
Length 19.5, alt.
17.5. diam.
16.5nim.
:35ribs (tj-pe).
Length 22.3, alt.
22, diam.
of right valve 9.5 mm.
: 33 ribs '^largest valve; .
Type No.
2964, A. X.
.S.
P. This species is much less obhque than -.4. tolepia, and approaches more to a circular shape.
It is known by 5 valves and one pair.
The valves are remarkably thick.
Area perfaceta d. sp.
The shell is nearly equivalve.
inequilateral with large, inflated beaks at the anterior fourth: extremely globose.
Lower-basal angle a httle produced.
Sculpture, in the left valve of 24 ribs about as wide as their inter^'als, and ever^-where closely granose.
Right valve having the ribs much narrower than their inter^'als, smooth in the median part, granose at the ends.
Hinge rather short, with 13 teeth before, 25 behind an irregularity below the beaks.
Margins deeply fluted.
Length 20.5. alt.
21.5, diam.
of left valve 11.3 mm.
T>-pe No.
2726, A. X.
.-.
P. A much smaller, more obese Argina than -4. tolepia.
The nine valves in the collection belonged to as many indi^'iduals.
The sculpture is particularly pleasing.
Area pomponiana n sp The shell is rather thin, inflated, ver^' inequilateral, the beaks inflated, cur^-ing strongly forward, between the anterior fifth and sixth of the length.
Cardinal area narrow and tapering behind the beaks, verjshort and wider in front, marked with one or two angulated grooves.
Posterior end sloping, produced below.
Sculpture of the left valve, 28 ribs widei: than their inters'als, and even.-where closely set with transverse granules.
Right valve with the ribs narrower, about equal to the inter\'als, flat-topped and rather low and smooth except at the ends, where the}' are granose.
Hinge slender, with many fine teeth.
Length 16. alt.
14.25, diam.
of left valve 7.3 mm.
•• 19.
■• 15. "
•• right •' 9 " Cotj-pes No.
2725.
A. N. S. P. Thinner, more oblique than the preceding species, and differing in details of sculpture.
Five valves belong to as many indi\-iduals.
Area cuneolns n. sp.
The shell is thin, wedge-shaped, the anterior end short and verv' narrow, the posterior end very wide; beaks small, very convex the convexity narrow; situated at the anteriortwo-fifths, turning somewhat backward.
Cardinal area small, not distinctly defined.
Sculpture of the convex and posterior parts of the shell of radial flattened, partly bifid ribs alternat ng with narrow riblets, all roughened by transverse granules; the anterior part of the shell having fine riblets and minute concentric threads.
Hinge narrow, the tooth-row continuous, of about 27 teeth, a group of verysmall ones under the beaks.
Length 8.8. greatest width 6.25, diam.
of left valve 3 mm.
This peculiar species has a general resemblance in shape to Macrodon asperula Dall, Area (CuciiUaria) endemica Dall, and Area culebrensis Smith.
It differs widely from them in sculpture.
We know of no nearly related species.
Area idiodon n. sp.
The cast is oblong, slightly wider posteriorly, with the beaks very close to the anterior end, full and prominent, and so near together that the beaks of the shell must be closeh' contiguous.
Hinge-line, as indicated by a narrow ridge in the cast, is gently arcuate from the posterior end nearly to the beaks.
Just below and anterior to the beaks it bends rather deeply downwards and the teeth, as indicated in the cast, are comparatively large.
There seems to be about seven of these enlarged teeth in the short, do"WTiwardly-ciirved anterior arc.
Inunediately behind this arc there is a space where the teeth seem to have been very small and irregular.
The rest of the hinge seems to have had moderately small, regular teeth, indicated by crenulations in the cast.
The lateral surfaces of the cast has low, irregular concentric waves and numerous ver^' shallow radial impressions.
The anterior border is distinctly crenulated, but elsewhere the internal borders of the valves would appear t-o have been smooth.
Length 69.6, alt.
48, diam.
38 mm.
Quarry near Wilmington, North Carolina.
Type Xo.
12475, A. X. S. P., collected by Mr. Joseph Willcox.
This peculiar ark differs widely from all Tertiary species knowTi to us.
The double curve of the tooth-row, with enlarged teeth on its short anterior arc, is a more specialized structure than we have found in the species compared.
The recent A. eampeehensis Dillw.
amerieana Gray, approaches nearer to A. idiodon than any other known to us.
Besides the peculiar hinge, this species is notable for its strongly anterior, contiguous beaks, the absence or weakness of crenulation along the basal margin, and the concentric waves of the surface of the cast.
The shell when found will probably prove to be thin for an Area.
Its strong individuality will permit ready recognition of this species, which we know from a single quite perfect cast.
Glycymeris santodomingensis n. sp.
Axincea sericata Reeve, Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 255.
The orbicular shell is rather convex, solid; anterior end broadly rounded, the posterior end more narrowly so.
Sculpture of 22 convex ribs, widest in the middle and anteriorly, much narrower on the posterior third.
Hinge broad, with 10 anterior and 13 posterior teeth; median teeth subobsolete; sulci of the lower margin extremely shallow, almost obsolete.
Posterior adductor scar bounded by an acute ridge anteriorly.
Length and alt.
37, semidiameter 11 mm.
Type No.
2654, A. N. S. P. Gabb identified this species with a little knowm recent form, which differs in number of ribs, etc.
In G. lloydsmithi P. & B. the ribs are much flatter, the hinge more curved, and the internal margin has strong V-shaped teeth.
Glycymeris dilfidentiae n. sp.
Axincea pennacea Lam., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc., XV, 1873, p. 255.
The shell is slightly inequilateral, rather convex, the posterior end more narrowly rounded and more produced than the anterior.
Sculpture of low but distinct radial ribs in the median part, obsolete at the ends; over all are fine radial striae, about six striae (five to seven) between crests of the ribs; these are crossed by regular but extremely minute concentric striae, which pit the grooves between the radial striae, when the surface is unworn.
Hinge is little curved, with toothrow of 14, 15 teeth.
The margin has rather strong, short teeth.
Length 20, alt.
16.7, semidiameter 7 mm.
(type). "
21, " 18.7, " 7 " (largest valve).
Type No.
2653, A. N. S. P., with 11 other valves.
The Bowden G. jamaicensis has a decidedly different sculpture, and fewer much larger teeth in specimens of the same size.
The recent G. lineatus (Reeve) has much the same sculpture, but it differs in the teeth and in outline.
Ostrea bolus n. sp.
The shell is small, usually subtriangular, the deep valve having the beak strongly curved as in some Gryphaeas, exterior with a few irregular ribs which do not affect the margin (and are sometimes wanting).
Cardinal area oblique; no crenulation of the margins near the hinge or elsewhere.
Upper valve with the beak oblique, cardinal area rather long.
Greatest length (alt.)
33, width 27 mm.
Type No.
2633, A. N. S. P., from between Las Caobas and Thomonde, Haiti, collected by Mr. Lloyd B. Smith, 1914.
Anomia gabbi n. sp.
Anomia ephippium Linn., Gabb.
Very similar to the European A. ephippium.
Externally the convex value has a coarse sculpture of radial ribs, with radial riblets and striae in the intervals.
The byssal impressions are distinctly but not deeply impressed, but sufficiently to be readily seen or felt.
Major impression somewhat square; minor impression close below it and not greatly smaller.
Adductor inpression alongside the minor byssal scar, not lower down.
The shell is orbicular, and somewhat stronger than A. ephippium or A. simplex.
Alt.
48 mm.
T>T3e No.
2642, A. N. S. P. There is the fragment of another valve, having the external sculpture less uneven though equally coarse.
Fecten plurinominis n. sp.
Peden oxygonum Sby., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 256.
Not of Sowerby.
Peden thetidis Sowerby, Dall, Trans.
Wagn.
Inst., Ill, p. 714.
Not of Sowerby.
In this scallop there are 19 rounded ribs a little wider than their intervals, over ribs and intervals there are weak radial cords bearing thin scales, near the edge of the left valve there are three of these scaly cords upon each rib and three in each interval.
Submargins and ears with numerous small ribs.
Ctenolium is rather long.
The right valve is slightly more convex than the left.
Length and alt.
31 mm.
Type No.
3236, A. N. S. P. This species resembles the recent P. fuscopurpurea Conrad in sculpture, but the ribs are not so strong and the ears are much smaller.
In our opinion it cannot be either P. oxygonum or P. thetidis of Sowerby.
Whether it is specifically separable from several forms found in the Canal Zone and Costa Rica is uncertain, but there are various differences which indicate at least racial distinction.
Typical specimens occur in some abundance in the Bowden bed also.
Pecten uselmae n. sp.
Peden incequalis Sowerby, Guppy, Q. J. Geol.
Soc, XXII, 1866, p. 294, PL 18, fig.
6.
Not of Sowerby.
The shell is inequilateral, inequivalve, the left valve is larger, conspicuously surpassing the right throughout the lower margin and ends It is strongly convex; the right valve weakly so.
Sculpture of 17 rounded ribs.
In the left valve these are wider than the intervals, which are deeply cut, with concave bottoms, which are closely sculptured with delicate transverse threads.
In the right valve the ribs are lower, and not quite as wide as the intervals, in which the transverse striation is often weak.
The submargins are smooth.
Ears with several ribs.
Ctenolium is very short, of three teeth, which are small in adult shells.
Cardinal crura strong, vertically striate.
Length of left valve 28, alt.
27.3, diam.
8.25 mm.
Type No.
11124, A. N. S. P., from Bowden, Jamaica, collected by Mr. Uselma C. Smith.
This species is noticed here because it has been identified as P. incequalis Sowb.
of Santo Domingo.
It differs from that by having fewer, stronger ribs in the left valve and more strongly ribbed ears.
The left valve is more convex, and the form more inequalateral.
Having seen large series of both, we find these differences constant.
It is not represented in our Santo Domingan collections.
Pecten (Amusium ?)
correctus n. sp.
Pecten opercularis Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 256.
The shell is orbicular, weakly convex, with sculpture of 21 extremely low, weakly convex ribs, over which growth-lines are visible.
Ears plain, subequal, separated from the rest of the valve by undercut grooves.
Alt.
52, semidiameter about 6.5 mm.
Type No.
2781, A. N. S. P. Pecten ischnon n. sp.
The shell is delicate, very thin, much compressed, inequilateral, the right valve slightly more convex.
Sculpture of 19 very low rounded ribs, and extremely delicate, fine and close concentric striation, strongest between the ribs.
Ears rather large, with a few delicate riblets in the right valve.
The left valve has 5 strong, crenulated ribs on the posterior ear.
Ctenolium w^ell developed.
Both valves are strongly furrowed radially inside, the edges of the intervening elevations a little raised, thickened.
Length of right valve 23, alt.
23, diam.
3.5 mm.
Type No.
2780, A. N. S. P. The collection contains five left and si.\ right valves.
Crenella diuturna n. sp.
CreneUa divaricata d'Orb., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 252.
The shell is small, rounded-oval, resembling C. duplinensis Dall, but differing by the somewhat greater inflation, and by having regularly spaced, concentric threads over the rather fine divaricate ribbing.
Hinge much more delicate than in C. divaricata (Orb.
); crenulation of the valve-margins short and very weak.
Length 1.85, alt.
2.3, diam.
1.5 mm.
The line of divarication is well out of the median line.
Several A^alves agree in characters of form and sculpture.
CreneUa rota n. sp.
The shell is rather convex, almost circular, having rather fine low ribs divaricating at a small angle from the median line, and crossed by numerous weak concentric threads.
Valve margins very strongly crenulated.
Length 1.8, alt.
1.95, diam.
1.4 mm.
Type No.
2753, A. N. S. P. Distinguished by its subcircular outline.
Cuspidaria ornatior n. sp.
Neaera ornatissima d'Orb., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 248.
The shell resembles C. ornatissina (Orb.
), but has much more numerous radial ribs, 22 in the type; on the anterior half they are subequal, evenly spaced and blunt.
Concentric wrinkles along growth-lines are rather well developed in places.
Length 4.75, alt.
2.7 mm.
T>T3e No.
2790, A. N. S. P. There are broken valves indicating a considerably larger size.
Cuspidaria gabbi n. sp.
Neoera alternata d'Orb., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 248.
The shell is plump, with elevated, nearly central beaks, much attenuated behind, rostrate, the upper margin sloping and nearly straight before, very deeply concave behind the beaks.
Basal margin is incurved posteriorly.
There are about 30 radial ribs, the posterior one largest and a little more widely separated from its neighbor; following 4 or 5 ribs of intermediate size, the rest smaller, subequal, and not reaching nea ly to the beaks.
Length 8, alt.
5.4, semidiameter 2.5 mm.
Type No.
2791, A. N. S. P. Near Sphena alternata Orb., but the dorsal border is much more concave behind the beaks.
Crassatellites (Crassinella) microdelta n. sp.
Gouldia martinicensis d'Orb., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 252.
The shell is subtriangular, the anterior and posterior slopes forming a right angle, basal margin strongly curved; lunule and escutcheon narrow, flattened, smooth; sculpture of strong, regular, rounded concentric ribs, about 19 visible in a lateral view of the valve, seven in 1 mm.
measured upward from the basal margin.
Length 2.6, alt.
2.5, semidiameter 0.6 mm.
Type No.
3229, A. N. S. P. According to the figures, Orbigny's Crassatella martinicensis has coarser, more widely spaced ribs.
There is, however, a recent Antillean species which resembles this Oligocene form closely in sculpture.
Crassatellites (Crassinella) dolatus n. sp.
The shell is rather convex, the anterior slope straight, posterior convex; lunule is somewhat sunken and large; -escutcheon narrow.
Sculpture of coarse rounded concentric ribs much wider than their intervals, 15 being visible on a valve, five in 1 mm., measured upward from the basal margin.
In the valleys very minute crowded radial striae are seen.
Length 3, alt.
3, semidiameter 1 mm.
Type No.
3230, A. N. S. P. This species differs from the preceding by its much coarser sculpture, larger, more distinctly defined lunule, and greater convexity.
Venericardia aversa n. sp.
The shell is small, extremely plump, higher than long, with very large, strongly prosogyrate beaks, and no lunule.
Sculpture of 18 strong tuberculiferous ribs equal to the interstices.
Cardinal tooth very high and thin, the socket correspondingly of unusual depth, narrow.
The inner margin is very strongly fluted, and there is a pit under the end of each rib.
Length 12, alt.
12.5, semidiameter 6.3 mm.
Type No.
3215, A. N. S. P. This small species is well characterized by the inflated form (the diameter being about equal to the length), by the long cardinal tooth and deep socket, and the large beaks.
Valves of two individuals, right and left, are in the collection.
1917.]
Natural sciences of Philadelphia.
197 Venericardia santodomingensis n. sp.
Cardiia scabricostala Guppy, Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philo.s.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 252.
Not of Guppy.
The shell is rounded-oval, the length very slightly exceeding the altitude, beaks very near the anterior end; lunule moderately sunken and rather large.
Sculpture of 22 or 23 subacute ribs bearing small, somewhat transverse granuU^s, the intervals between the ribs broad, concave, irregularly striat(xl transversely.
Hinge and basal margin as in V. scabricostala (Guppy).
Length 21.7, alt.
21.3, semidiameter 9 mm.
Type No.
3214, A. N. S. P. This species is closely related to V. scabricostala, })ut differs by having more ribs, which are narrower with wider intervals; it is rounder, and higher relative to the length.
We find these differences constant in large series of both examined.
It has some resemblance to the young of V. hadra Dall, but that seems to be a heavier, far more coarsely sculptured shell, when specimens of equal size are compared.
The Chipolan species reaches a far greater size than V. santodomingensis.
•Echinooliama trachyderma n. sp.
Chama arcinella Linn., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Pliilos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 2.51.
Shell resembling E. antiquata Dall in shape, but differing by having fewer radial ribs (8 to 12), which are only sparsely spinose; surface very closely and strongly tuberculate, the tubercles sometimes anastomosing into a netted pattern in places.
Length 55.5, alt.
61.5, diam.
43.5 mm.
Type No.
2766, A. N. S. P. The comparison of long series of excellently preserved shells from Bowden and Santo Domingo shows no intergradation between E. antiquata and this species.
Phacoides perplexus n. sp.
Lucina antillarum Reeve, Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 251.
The shell is small, orbicular, not very inequilateral, with sculpture of numerous (about ten) rounded radial ribs, which gradually diminish and partly disappear on the lower third of the disk, crossed by many close, fine, obtuse and slightly waved concentric threads.
Lunule distinct, somewhat sunken.
Hinge with two cardinal teeth but no laterals in the left valve.
Anterior muscle scar long.
Internal margin crenulated.
Length 7, alt.
6.7, diam.
left valve 2.3^ mm.
With a hinge like Lucinoma, this species has external sculpture 14 resembling Codakia {Jagonia) antillarum (Rve.)
Gabb's specimen, No.
3324 A. N. S. P., a single valve, is not identical with Codakia vendryesi, as Dr. Dall supposed.
Phiacoides (Parvilucina) pupulus n. sp.
Lucina crenulata Con., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 251.
This is a species of the crenidata group, differing from the type of crenulata Conr.
(No.
2718, A. N. S. P.) by its far smaller size, thinner concentric lamelliB and the relatively coarser, low and rounded radial sculpture, which appears much more prominent when the concentric lamellse are worn off.
The lunule is relatively larger, very deep; finally the teeth are heavier and the marginal crenulation coarser for the size.
Length 2.8, alt.
2.7, diam.
of one valve 1.05 mm.
Type No.
3323, A. N. S. P., with five other valves.
Divaricella proletaria n. sp.
Lucina denlata Wood, Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 251.
The shell is thin, plump, subcircular, equilateral, with sculpture of the usual Divaricella pattern, the grooves widely spaced for so small a shell.
There are several strongly marked grooves of growth-arrest in large specimens.
The inner margin is finely crenvilated, the hinge-line strongly arched, and not angular at the ends.
Length 8.75, alt.
8.25, diam.
of one valve 3 mm.
Type No.
2754, A. N. S. P. This species is represented by over 20 valves.
It is related to D. quadrisulcata (Orb.
), but differs by the much smaller size, plumper form, far more curved hinge-line, and the relatively coarser sculpture.
Lucina mauryae n. sp.
The shell is compressed, the diameter about half the length, orbicular, with the small beaks near the anterior third of the length.
In front of the beaks the shell is produced in a thin wing.
There is a small lunule defined by a groove in the right valve, none in the left.
The dorsal area is defined by a slight furrow in both valves; surface delicately striate concentrically.
Length 36.5, alt.
33.5, diam.
19 mm.
The valves are sl few millimeters apart at the lower edge; if in contact the diameter would be at least 1 mm.
less.
The compressed shape is characteristic.
Diplodonta dedecoris n. sp.
The shell is thin, with Bather small, pointed beaks, and inconspicuous sculpture of fine, irregularly developed concentric striae, over which there is a most minute granuhition.
Posterior end very short, broadly rounded.
Anterior end produced, also Ijroadly rounded, both cardinal teeth bifid.
Length 1.5, alt.
1.35, semidiameter 0.35 mm.
Type No.
2758, A. N. S. P. Similar to D. minor Dall, but of less oblique, more rounded outline.
Chione santodomingensis n. sp.
The shell resembles C. chipolana, but differs as follows.
It is shorter and higher, the dorsal and anterior slopes forming a smaller angle.
The concentric laminge are widely spaced, and continue over the lunule.
The radial sculpture produced by splitting of the ribs is less even.
There are fewer concentric ribs than in C. chipolana of the same size.
Length 17.4, alt.
16.4, semidiameter 5.7 mm.
Type No.
2777, A. N.S.
P. We have compared this with a long series of C. chipolana from the type locality, and have no doubt of its distinctness, though there is a general similarity.
Chione socia n. sp.
The shell resembles C. woodwardi Guppy in size and shape, as well as in the lunule, over which the concentric lamellae run.
It differs by the radial sculpture.
In C. woodwardi the radial ribs run to the basal border, gradually enlarging.
In C. socia these ribs, at first similar, soon become smaller, low and slender, and towards the margin they split, so that there are very many more, and smaller riljs.
Crenulations of the internal basal margin are smaller and twinned.
Length 21, alt.
19, diam.
14 mm.
Type No.
2778, A. N. S. P. This form shows a particular sculpture not found in the common C. woodwardi of the Bowden bed, which appears not to occur in Santo Domingo.
In C. safitodomingensis the concentric lamellae are much more widely spaced.
Chione primigenia n. sp.
Related to C. cancellata and C. chipolana.
The radial sculpture is coarser than in chipolana, the beaks are nearer the anterior end, and the tooth-plate is decidedly broader.
The posterior end is more prolonged and cuneate than in C. cancellata, the concentric ribs are more delicate, the lunule far wider than cancellata of equal size and the beaks more anterior.
Length 26, alt.
21.6, semidiameter 8.2 mm.
Type a right valve.
No.
2782, A. N. S. P. Cyclinella cyclica domingensis nsubsp.
Cyclina cyclica Guppy, Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, p. 250. ?
Dosinia cyclica Guppy, Q. J. Geol.
Soc, XXII, 1866, p. 582, PI.
26, figs.
15a, h. According to Guppy, the lunule is entirely wanting in his species, but Dall, who has examined the types, states that it is large and lanceolate, and there is "a close concentric sculpture of fine, sharp, somewhat elevated lines" (Wagn.
Trans.
Ill, 1285).
In the Santo Domingo specimen (No.
2755), an excessively faint impressed line defines the lunule, which is about 7 mm.
long, 3 wide.
The sculpture consists of unequal, unevenly developed flat growth-ripples, which on the posterior dorsal slope become fine but not much elevated threads.
Length 28.7, alt.
26.5, diam.
14 mm.
As the single specimen seems to differ somewhat from the account of Guppy's species, we prefer to treat it as a variety.
Dall stated that the type of D. cyclica Guppy was a Liicino'psis {Proc.
U. S. N, Mus., XIX, 329), but later {Trans.
Wagn.
Inst., Ill, 1285) he placed it in Cyclinella.
Type No.
2755.
Dosinia azuana n. sp.
The shell resembles D. elegans, but is somewhat plumper, with the concentric grooves more widely spaced, strong throughout.
The sculpture is not laminar at the ends.
Lunule as in D. elegans.
Length 39, alt.
38, diam.
20 mm.
West of Azua, collected by Mr. L. B. Smith.
Type No.
2685, A. N. S. P. Semele delimata «.
sp.
The shell is compressed with small, inconspicuous l)eaks near the middle, lunule rather deep.
Anterior end broadly rounded, posterior end more produced and narrower.
There are rather sharjD growthstriae near the lower margin, elsewhere smooth.
Length 47, alt.
38.5, diam.
20.5 mm.
It is related to S. silicata Dall, a smaller, more sharply sculptured species.
Semele firma n. sp.
Closely related to S. sardonica Dall, but of a less wide, ovate outine; lunule deep and narrow; escutcheon narrow, about equally developed in both valves.
Sculpture of sharp, low, thread-like eoncentric lamellae without interstitial striae.
Length 31, alt.
22.5, diam.
about 11 mm.
Both of these species of Semele are apparently from the Orlhaulax bed, having the same hard matrix.
They stand close to Ballast Point species, yet are evidently distinct.
Tellina (Merisca) errati n. sp.
Tellidora crystallina Chemn., Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 249.
The shell is compressed, with nearly median beaks, the dorsal slopes on either side straight.
Anterior end broadly rounded, posterior end acute; lower margin strongly arched, a little incurved near the posterior end.
The right valve has an angular ridge below the posterior upper margin, followed by a radial concavity.
Left valve with a slight concavity below the same margin.
The surface is matt, with sculpture of delicate, regularly and rather widely spaced laminar concentric ribs.
In the intervals there is very fine radial crinkling, the wrinkles partly converging upwards into many little groups.
The pallial sinus extends nearly to the anterior adductor scar, and is concrescent below with the pallial line.
Lateral teeth well developed in the right, wanting in the left valve.
Length 13, alt.
9, diam.
of left valve 2 mm.
Type No.
2666, A. N. S. P. Gabb's identification of this species was really remarkable.
There are two left valves and a ])roken right valve, the latter larger, indicating a length o^" 17 or 18 mm.
Metis eiferta u. sp.
The beaks are nearly central, left valve more convex, being plump throughout, right valve plump anteriorly, then broadly concave, strongly angular posteriorly.
Surface very lightly striate with periodic marks of growth-arrest, and on the anterior and posterior areas there are fine laminae like those of M. chipolana.
Radial striation is fine and superficial.
Length 36, alt.
30.7, diam.
17 mm.
Type No.
2665, A. N. S. P. Related to M. chipolana, but readily distinguishable by the much plumper form, broader and deeper concavity of the right valve, and presence of little laminae only on the ends.
The valves are slightly skewed.
If evenly placed the diameter would be about 18 mm.
Metis postrema n. sp.
This species is closely related to M. chipolana and M. efferta, but differs from both by its relatively greater length.
Length 36, alt.
28.7, diam.
about 14 mm.
Type No.
2760, A. N. S. P. Two other specimens.
Whether further series will show that these three supposed species intergrade we cannot tell.
With the material before us, they seem sufficiently distinct.
All were labelled Macoma constrida Brg.
by Gabb.
It was a wild shot, even for him.
Labiosa (Eaeta) gabbi n. sp.
Roeta canaliculata Say, Gabb, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, XV, 1873, p. 248.
The shell is oval-subtriangular, the beaks nearer the anterior end; sculptured with small concentric ribs which are weaker in the middle, where there is a slightly depressed, quite inconspicuous, wedge-shaped area radiating from the beaks.
Beaks small, turned forward a little, smooth.
Posterior end rounded, somewhat compressed, the contour in dorsal view being somewhat wedge-shaped.
Hinge not exposed.
Length 28, alt.
2.3, diam.
13.8 mm.
Type No.
2675, A. N. S. P. As the shape, sculpture and size differ conspicuously from L. canaliculata, it is not easy to account for Gabb's identification.
It is also obviously unlike L. alta (Conr.).
Besides the specimen mentioned by Gabb, five others were found in unassorted material.
A NEW HUMMINGBIRD FROM COLOMBIA.
BY WITMER STONE.
In a collection of birds from the Santa Marta region of Colombia, recently received by the Academy from Mr. M. A. Carriker, there are two specimens of a hummingbird which seem to belong to an undescribed form.
They are related to Lepidopyga cceruliigularis Gould, but differ in having the whole under parts, except the under tail coverts, glittering blue, while in that species the abdomen is green, in sharp contrast to the blue of the throat and breast.
Of the two described species which are usually synonymized with L. cceruliigularis, Trochilus Duchaissingii Bourcier {Compt.
Rend., XXXII, p. 187) from "bois entre la Gorgone et Panama," is undoubtedly identical with that species.
The other one, Thalicrania Ccelina Bourcier {Rev.
ZooL, 1856, p. 552), is described from the "environs de Santa Marthe," and one would suppose from the locality that it was likely to be the same form as that obtained by Mr. Carriker.
The description, however, seems to apply to a bird much closer to Lepidopyga cceruliigularis Gould, as it says: "Gorge, devant du cou, thorax d'un beau bleu brillant, verdissant sur les cotes du cou.
Abdomen vert bronze."
In distinguishing it from Trochilus Duchaissingii [= L. cceruliigularis], the describer says: "elle en differe par le dessus de la tete et du €orps, terne bronze chez ce dernier, ainsi que par les formes des rectrices et la coloration des mediaires, qui sont entierement cuivrees."
Brabourne and Chubb, in their "List of the Birds of South America," recognize both L. cceruliigularis and L. ccelina, and if they are really distinct and if the type of L. ccelina really came from Santa Marta, it would seem that it was the representative of L. ■cceruliigularis in the coast region of the Santa Marta district.
In this case the blue-bellied bird obtained by Mr. Carriker at Punto Caiman in the same general region must be specifically distinct.
If, on the other hand, the type of L. ccelina, shipped from Santa Marta, was collected at some point more or less remote, in the mountains, as is quite possible since the exact locality at which many of these old types were obtained was not known, then both of them may be better regarded as races of L. ccehdiigularis.
Whether the latter 15 really occurs south of Panama is another question that remains to be settled by the acquisition of additional material.
Meanwhile it is desirable to provide a name for the blue-bellied bird, and until the distribution of the green-bellied forms is more accurately worked out it had better be regarded as specifically distinct.
The description follows: Lepidopyga lilliae sp.
nov. Chars.
Spec.
— Similar to Lepidopyga cceruliigularis, but lower breast and abdomen glittering blue instead of green and upper surface darker green with much less bronze iridescence.
Description.
— Type, adult male, No.
62793, Collection Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; Punto Caiman, Santa Marta, Colombia, M. A. Carriker, Setpember 29, 1913.
Above dark glossy green with bronze tints showing only on the upper tail coverts and median rectrices; general tone of upper parts bluish green as contrasted with the yellow-bronze iridescence of L. cceruliigularis.
Below entirely glittering metallic blue excepting the under tail coverts which are metallic green edged with dull white.
The center of the throat is purplish, as in L. cceruliigularis, and some of the posteriorfeathers of the abdomen, especially the lateral ones, have green reflections in certain lights.
Feet black and bill black above and flesh-colored with black tip below.
Measurements.
— Wing, 48 mm.
; tail, 35; culmen, 18; length in the flesh, 105.
Named in honor of Mrs. Witmer Stone.
The second specimen obtained by Mr. Carriker (No.
62794, Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.)
is also an adult male and is exactly like the type in coloration.
It measures: Wing, 49 mm.
; tail, 34; culmen, 19.
It was taken at the same time and place as the type.
June 12, Adjourned Meeting.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D., in the Chair.
Eighteen members present.
The reception of papers under the following titles was reported by the Publication Committee : "New species of North American bees of the genus Andrena, " by Henry L. Viereck (May 23).
Referred to the American Entomological Society, (Entomological Section of the Academy.)
"A new humming bird from the Santa Marta region of Colombia, " by Witmer Stone (May 25).
"Marine mollusks of Hawaii, I-III," by Henry A. Pilsbry (May 26, June 11). "
Dermapterological notes" by Morgan Hebard (June 25).
The deaths of the following members were announced : Robert J. Hess, M.D., June 20, 1909.
Henrv A.
Green, 1913.
Eugene I. Santee, M.D., June 16, 1915.
Frederick Gutekunst, April, 27, 1917.
William H. Newbold, May 25, 1917.
On Hagenius hrevistylus.
— Dr. Philip P. Calvert exhibited two larval exuvise of the large dragon fly, Hagenius hrevistylus, from Darby Creek above Heyville, June 18, 1916, and a female imago of the same species from Crum Creek, near Castle Rock, June 23, 1916, both localities in Pennsylvania within nine miles from Philadelphia.
He remarked that only one previous record (a larva, Fairmount Park, 1893, by the late C. Few Seiss, of this Academy) of this species within the Philadelphia area existed and called the attention of those present to the desirability of noting additional specimens in the present month.
The peculiar shape of the larva was commented on.
Beltian Bodies on Acacia.
— Dr. Calvert also exhibited specimens of a Bull's Horn Thqrn {Acacia costaricensis Schenck) from Costa Rica, showing the paired thorns and the "Beltian bodies" at the tips of the pinnules, and specimens of ants {Pseudomyrma nigrocincta) from one of these thorns, all collected by himself.
He stated the 206 [June, views of Belt and others as to the relation existing between the plant and the insect and the arguments recently urged by Wheeler against the symbiosis side of Belt's view.
The following were elected members : Samuel Bell, Jr., M. Georgina Biddle, W. Lj^man Biddle, Kenneth M. Blakiston, Henrv H. Bonnell, B. Preston Clark, Walton Clark, WiUiam M. Coates, Thomas De Witt Cuyler, Herman Dercum, Andrew J. Ennis, Clayton D. Fretz, M.D., W. H. Gartley, Hon.
John Marshall Gest, William P. Gest, S. H. Gilliland, Alfred Gordon, M.D., Henrv S. Grove, C. H: Guilbert, D. L. Hebard, Hannah M. Hebard, Mary Euphemia Hebard, S. Charlton Henry, Benjamin R. Hoffman, Alba B. Johnson, Charles J. Jones, M.D., Theodore Justice, J. L. Ketterlinus, Charles H. La Wall, Morris E. Leeds, James E. Lennon, Walter Lippincott, Percy C. Madeira, Julia Hebard Marsden, Hon.
J. Willis Martin, J. Hartley Merrick, Robert Thomas Moore, F. Corlies Morgan, Marriott C. Morris, Frank J. Myers, Carroll B. Nichols, William A. Patton, Edmund B. Piper, M.D., J.
Sergeant Price, Jr., William K. Ramborger, George D. Rosengarten, Ph.D., Boyd P. Rothrock, B. Franklin Royer, M.D., Coleman Sellers, Jr., Howard Sellers, Robert P. Sharpies, Henry W. Shoemaker, I. P. Strittmatter, M.D., Sydney Thayer, William Henry Trotter, Robert Orr Van Deusen, Bryant Walker, A.M., Sc.D., Joseph Wayne, Jr., S. P. WetheriU, Robert Whitaker, George Woodward, M.D., Rev.
Harrison B. Wright.
The following were ordered to be printed: MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII, I-III.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
In the identification of mollusks obtained by the writer in 1913, and those subsequently received from Mr. D. Thaanum, of Hilo, it was found necessary to review all the Hawaiian species of some families.
That the studies may be of use to others interested in the Hawaiian fauna, it is proposed to publish the results in a series of articles with illustrations of new forms and those not previously figured.
It is a pleasure to acknowledge the liberality of Mr. Samuel Henshaw, Director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, who allowed the author to study and "figure specimens from the Pease collection,, contained in that museum.
Without these, definite conclusions, would be unattainable in many cases.
I.
THE PHASIANELLID^.
The Hawaiian Phasianellse are all very small, but of exquisite beauty.
Probably all but P. thaanumi belong to the section Tricoliella Monts., type P. jmlla, if this is separable from Tricolia.
For P. thaanumi a new section, Hiloa, may be formed, characterized as in the following: Key to Hawaiian Phasianellce.
a. Peristome projecting forward at junction of columellar and basal margins; shell short, of rapidly enlarging whorls.
P. thaanumi, n. sp.
o^ No projection of the peristome in unbroken specimens.
b. Axis narrowly, deeply umbilicate; thin P. molokaiensis, n. sp.
b^.
Axis perforate.
c. Shell ovate, with moderately long spire.
d. Rather solid; 2.7x2 mm.
P. variabilis (Pse.).
d^.
Thin, about 1.8 mm.
long P. v. kahoolawensis, n. subsp.
d. Shell broad, with short spire P. bryani, n. sp.
Phasianella variabilis (Pease).
1860.
Collonia variabilis Pse., Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond., p. 436.
1888.
Phasianella variabilis Pse., Pilsbry, Man.
of Conch., X, p. 176, PL 39a, figs.
21, 22.
This species is sometimes common on the beaches east of Honolulu (which may be taken as type locality), and I have taken it at Haleiwa, on the west coast.
In both places it was found associated with .Alcyna rubra.
It has not been reported from any island but Oahu.
It differs from other Hawaiian species of the genus by its longer, ovate contour.
The patterns vary widely.
An average specimen measures: Length 2.7, diam.
2, longest axis of aperture 1.5 mm.
; 4 whorls.
Phasianella variabilis kahoolawensis n subsp.
PI.
X^^ fig.
11.
The shell is perforate, pinkish-buff with pink lineolation, the first whorl opaque white; thin.
Length 1.8, diam.
1.45, longest axis of aperture 1 mm.
; 3^ whorls.
Kahoolawe, the type, No.
116188, from the north shore; another specimen from Smuggler's Bay on the southern shore; collected by Pilsbry, 1913.
This is probably a distinct species.
It is thinner, with a thinner columella than young P. variabilis of the same size.
I did not find variabilis on the island of Kahoolawe.
Phasianella bryani n. sp.
PI.
XV, fig.
13.
The shell is narrowly perforate, short and broad, rather solid, smooth, nearly white, closely, obliquely lineolate with pale rose.
Spire short.
Whorls well rounded, rapidly increasing.
Aperture oblique, nearly round.
Columella rather thin, not prominent at its junction with the basal margin.
Length 2.4, diam.
2.1, longest axis of aperture 1.54 mm.
; 3| whorls.
Haleiwa, west coast of Oahu.
Type and paratypes No.
116320, A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913.
This species occurred with P. variabilis, from which it is readily separable by the shorter spire and relatively broader last whorl.
The groove behind the columella is much narrower than in P. molokaiensis, and the shell is thicker.
Some examples have opaque white spots below the suture.
It is named for the author of Natural History of Hawaii, who was my companion and guide on several collecting trips to the reefs of Oahu.
Phasianella molokaiensis n. sp.
PI.
XV, fig.
10.
The shell is thin, narrowly umbilicate, globosely ovate, smooth and glossy, the type having old rose spots below the suture, irregular spots below the periphery, and a lineolate band between, on a whitish ground.
The aperture is nearly round, oblique, showing the color through; outer lip thin; columella thin, a deep and wide groove behind it.
Length 2, diam.
1.7, longest axis of aperture 1.27 mm.
; 3| whorls.
Moomomi, on the north coast of western Molokai, type and manyother specimens No.
117054, A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913.
The umbihcus and the groove below it are larger than in other Hawaiian species.
The shell is thinner than that of P. variahilis or P. hryani.
The specimens vary in pattern, but nearly all were bleached.
Phasianella thaanumi n. sp.
PI.
XV, figs.
12, 14.
The shell is very thin, perforate, short, obliquely conic, the spire short, somewhat attenuate, last whorl very rapidly enlarging.
Surface smooth, pale olive buff, translucent, with four indistinct, narrow whitish bands on the latter part of the last whorl, where there are also some very faint brownish flecks.
The very large and decidedly oblique aperture is subrotund, but a little longer than wide.
The outer lip is well expanded.
Columella is narrowly expanded, thin, regularly arched, and there is a forwardly salient angle where it joins the basal lip.
The operculum is olivebuff, strongly convex and smooth externally.
Length 2.1, diam.
1.8, longest axis of aperture 1.35 mm.
Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum.
Type and paratype No.
117053> A. N. S. P., from No.
8393 of Mr. Thaanum's collection.
This species is very distinct by the projection of the peristome at the foot of the columella.
The rapidly enlarging whorls and marked expansion of the lip are also characteristic.
The surface has a thin calcareous incrustation, unlike the clean, glossy appearance of most Phasianellas.
ALCYNA.
Alcyna contains shells similar to Phasianella except that the columella has a strong tooth.
The operculum is not yet known.
So far as we know, the greatest development of Alcyna is on the Hawaiian shores, where six species have been found.
Four of these were described by W. H. Pease, 1860'69.
As none of them has been fully characterized, and only one figured, I am giving new figures of all but one, A. striata Pease,^ the specimens of which could not be found in the Pease collection, being either lost or misplaced.
Mr. Kuhns dredged A. kuhnsi in 25 to 50 fathoms.
Four species collected by the writer were found in strand debris, on the shores of Oahu, Molokai and Kahoolawe.
1 AlcijJM striata Pse., Amer.
Jour, of Conch., V, p. 70; Man.
of Conch., X, p. 182, reprint of original description.
Key to Species of Alcyna.
a.
Shell very minutely or scarcely perforate ; whorls rounded, without raised striae.
6.
Base and spire having fine, engraved spiral lines; of uniform color, longitudinally lineolate or spotted A. rubra Pse.
h^.
No engraved lines, smooth; spirally banded with red, A. kapiolanice, n. sp.
a^ Shell openly perforate.
b.
Having raised spiral stria^ or small ridges.
c. Marked with red spiral lines or narrow bands; varix behind the lip low A. lineata Pse.
cK Marked with flammules or longitudinal stripes (or uniform white?)
; varix behind lip well developed A. subangulata Pse.
6^ Whorls not ridged or striate, with minute engraved lines at and below middle of the last whorl A. kuh7isi, n. sp.
A. striata Pse., which I have not seen, is described as having impressed lines, whorls angular below suture, speckled and mottled w4th black and gray, whitish below the suture.
Alcyna rubra Pease, pi.
XV, figs, l .
2.
1860.
Alcyna rubra Pease, P. Z. S., p. 436.
1862.
Phasianella rubra Pease, Reeve, Conchologia Iconica XIII, PI.
6, fig.
18«, b.
1888.
Alcyna rubra Pse., Pilsbry, Man.
of Conch., X, p. 182.
Type in British Mus.
; metatypes No.
31720, M. C. Z., and No.
37834, A. N. S. P. Pease's description was reproduced in Manual of Conchology.
He overlooked the fine, engraved spirals, of which there are six on the penult whorl, more on, the next earlier.
On the last whorl they are more or less weakened or even wanting in the peripheral region and above, but distinct on the base.
There is a vertical groove at the axis, but not a perforation.
As in other species, the columellar tooth appears stronger in an oblique view, but the degree of emergence varies individually.
The whorl has a very low, broad swelling behind the lip in adults, but it is often scarcely noticeable.
The color, as seen in the mass, is old rose, but the shade varies noticeably in different specimens.
There is a white area around the columella, and the apical whorl is slightly paler.
Otherwise the color may be nearly uniform (fig.
2) or marked with darker oblique lines on a paler ground on the spire, blotched with buft' or white below the suture of the last whorl, with scattered whitish dots over the rest of the surface (as in Reeve's fig.
18a, and our fig.
1), or exceptionally there may be oblique red lines also on the last whorl.
The blunt lip-edge is touched with rose color in adult shells.
These notes apply to the typical lot in the Pease collection M. C. Z.^ which is labelled "Hawaii."
There is also a numerous, wholly similar, series in A. N. S. received from Pease, No.
37834.
The shape varies somewhat, fig.
1 being of the prevalent form.
Length 2.55, diam.
1.9 mm.
; 4f whorls (typical specimen, £g.
1).
2.35, " 1.8 " (wide specimen, fig.
2). "
2.7, " 1.7 " (narrow specimen) .
In a small series from Waikiki beach, near Honolulu, the same patterns occur.
At Haleiwa I found the typical pattern, also similar with a pale peripheral line, and a form with lineolation throughout, in isabella color.
One specimen from the north shore of Kahoolawe is isabella colored,.
in typical pattern.
Alcyna kuhnsi n. sp.
PI.
XV, fig.
9.
The shell is openly perforate, globosely ovate, solid, varying in color from coral pink to eugenia red, spotted with white in varying patterns (the type specimen coral pink, having a series of white blotches below the suture on the last whorl, a series of spots above a pale peripheral line, and scattered spots in the intervals; other shells being darker with very few spots, olive-buff with irregular longitudinal lineolation of red and the typical white spots, etc.)
; the apical whorl white, the next white or olivaceous.
Sculpture of encircling impressed lines at and below the periphery.
Columellar area broad,, white.
Tooth conical, median on the columella.
Lip thickened but beveled to an edge, the whorl noticeably swollen behind it.
Length 1.65, diam.
1.3 mm.
; 4 whorls.
Off Waikiki (between Honolulu and Diamond Head), in 25 to 50 fathoms, D. B. Kuhns, 1917.
Type No.
117055, A. N. S. P., from No.
8395, Thaanum Coll.
This species was taken in some numbers.
It differs from A. rubra by the small size, short contour, open perforation and different shape of the columellar tooth.
Alcyna kuhnsi humerosa n. subsp.
PI.
XV, fig.
8.
The shell is openly perforate, globular-conic, the last whorl obtusely angular at the shoulder, flattened below the angle; smooth and glossy, but engraved at and below the middle with spiral impressed lines, of which there are about 14.
Color pale pinkish cinnamon,, irregularly lineolate longitudinally with old rose, the lines not reaching to the suture; the first two whorls white.
Peristome somewhat thickened within.
Columella deeply grooved, bearing a stout tooth.
Length 1.75, diam.
1.4 mm.
Waikiki beach, Pilsbry, 191o.
Type No.
117049, A. N. S. P. This differs from A. kuhnsi by the distinctly angular shoulder, but as only one example has been examined the constancy of the character is uncertain.
Alcyna kapiolaniae n. sp.
PI.
XV, fig.
3.
The shell is imperforate, though grooved at and below the umbilical situation, ovate, rather solid, smooth throughout, glossy; flesh-pink, encircled with narrow bands of old rose or jasper red, 7 to 12 on the last whorl, the first two whorls whitish.
Lip thickened, bevelled.
Columellar area broad, white, with a vertical groove; the tooth stout, directed somewhat downwards.
Length 2.4, diam.
1.74 mm.
Waikiki beach, near Honolulu, type No.
117052, A. N. S. P., and Haleiwa, on the west coast of Oahu; Pilsbry, 1913.
This charming little shell was found in beach debris in both localities.
It has about the shape of A. rubra, but differs by lacking spiral impressed lines, the surface being smooth; also by the color-pattern, to which there is no approach whatever in the large series of A .
rubra examined.
It is colored like A. lineata, but that species is spirally ridged and somewhat shorter.
Alcyna lineata Pease.
Pi.
XV, fig.
4.
1869.
Alcyna lineata Pease, Amer.
Jour, of Conch., V, p. 69.
1888.
Alcyna lineata Pease, Pilsbry, Man.
of Conch, p. 182.
Pease's description was reprinted in Manual of Conchology, but the species has not been figured before.
It is openly perforate, about as figured for A .
suhangulata, and, as Pease says, transversely ridged, the ridges jasper red, intervals coral pink.
There is a distinct though low swelling behind the outer lip.
The holotype measures: Length 2.15, diam.
1.65 mm.
; 4 whorls.
Type No.
31724, M. C. Z. Puuloa.
This species differs from A. kapiolajiice, which is similarly colored, by the well-developed spiral ridges, the open perforation and the shorter contour.
The type is figured.
Besides this, I have seen a single specimen, found at Waikiki, which appears referable to this species.
It differs by being a little more slender, with the columellar tooth more receding and only part of the spiral ridges are colored, there being five colored lines on the last whorl, instead of ten which the type shows.
Alcyna subangulata Pease.
PI.
XV, figs.
5-7 (varieties).
1860.
Alcyna subangulata Pease, P. Z. S., p. 436.
1888.
Alcyna subangulata Pease, Pilsbry, Man.
Conch.
X, p. 182, reprint of original description.
This species was described from a specimen sent to H. Cuming, and the type is presumably in the British Museum.
A specimen in the Pease collection, Museum of Comparative Zoology, No.
31723, is drawn in figs.
5 and 6.
This shell agrees well with Pease's description except in color.
It is pale pinkish buff with small, pale brownish flames radiating from the suture.
The last whorl is obtusely biangular with alwut 4 low spiral cords above the upper angle, two and a very weak third between the angles, base with numerous spirals.
There is a rounded swelling or varix behind the lip, stronger than in the other species.
The umbilicus is rather large (fig.
5, an obliquely basal view).
The tooth appears larger in a more oblique view than that drawn.
It is a ''dead" shell.
Length 2.2, diam.
1.7 mm.
A specimen from Haleiwa, on the west coast of Oahu (Pilsbry, 1913) is similar, but with only two cords between the angles, in front, and the color is uniform cartridge buff, probably bleached.
Of two from Honolulu, collected by F. Stearns, No.
93890, A. S. N. P., one is bleached white, the other is fresh, whitish with flames of pale flesh color radiating from the suture, wider and more distinct than in the Pease example figured.
As this coloration is quite unlike that described by Pease for A. subangulata, the specimens described above may be called A. s. flammulata; No.
93890 being the type.
Typical A. subangulata was described as "deep red with oblique light red lines."
Alcyna subangulata virgata, PI.
XV, fig.
7, is a somewhat narrower form with three carinse in the middle, two small cords above the upper one, the color flesh pink, becoming old rose at the summit, and elegantly striped with claret brown.
As in the other forms, there is a prominent rounded varix behind the outer lip.
Length 2.1, diam.
1.5 mm.
Haleiwa, west coast of Oahu, on the beach.
Type No.
116297, A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913.
The tooth recedes, and in an oblique view it is seen to be much longer than shown in the figure.
The value of the characters given for these forms of A. subangulata remains to be tested by the comparison of series of individuals.
A. subangulata resembles A. lineata, but differs by the much stronger varix behind the outer lip and the coloration.
214 [June-, II.
THE TEOTIBRANOHIATA.
Besides the species discussed below, the following Tectibranchs of the Cephalaspidian group have been reported from the Hawaiian Islands.Species marked with a * were originally described from the Hawaiian Islands.
Pwpa nitidula (Lam.
).^ Bullina scahra (Gmel.).
*Bullina vitrea (Pse.).
*Scaphafider alatus Dall.
*Scaphander pustulosus Dall.
SmaragdineUa viridis (Q.
& G.).
*Bullaria peaseana (Pils.).
* *Haminea crocata Pse.
*Harninea galba Pse.
*Haminea pusilla Pse.
*Haminea sandwichensis Sowb.
*Volvatella fragilis Pse.
Hydatina physis (L.).
Hydatina a in piastre (L.).
Micromelo guamensis (Q.
& G.), *Aglaja nuttalli Pils.
*Philinopsis speciosa Pse.
*Philinopsis nigra Pse.
Bidlaria peaseana has been found abundantly at Hilo by Mr.. Thaanum.
The writer took Hydatina amplustre on the north coast of Kahoolawe.
Umhraculiwi sinicum aurantiacum (Pse.)
which Mr. Thaanum has taken at Hilo, appears to be sufficiently distinct from U. sinicum by characters of the shell to merit a subspecific name.
Pupa thaanumi n. sp.
Fig.
1.
The shell is oblong with acutely conic spire, solid, somewhat shining, whitish, unevenly tessellated with flesh pink, the spotting interrupted by pale bands on the sixth and twelfth spaces between spiral grooves; an apricot buff area at the base.
Sculpture of 17 spiral grooves on the last, four on the penult whorl; they are closely punctate; the upper two grooves and the lower seven are close, the rest being nearly twice as far apart.
Columellar fold heavy, its wide crest grooved.
A small spiral fold is above it on the parietal wall.
Length 9, diam.
4 mm.
; 6| whorls.
Off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fathoms.
Type No.
117069, A. N. S. P., from No.
1193a of Mr. Thaanum's collection, taken by D. B. Kuhns, 1916.
This species resembles P. suturalis (Ad.
), P. strigosa (Gld.)
and ^ The list is quoted from a MS. catalogue of recorded Hawaiian moUusks compiled by Mr. D. Thaanum.
^ Solidula nitidula auct., Tornatella nitidula Lam.
* Bulla peaseana Pils.
Man.
Conch.
XV, 348.
1917.]
215 P. alveola (Souverbie), more especially the last, which differs in details of sculpture and somewhat in coloration.
The substitution of Pupa for Solid ula is one of the unfortunate consequences of adopting Bolten's nomenclature.
-^^ Fig.
1.
— Pupa thaanumi.
Fig.
3.
— Acteocina lionoluluensis.
Fig.
2.
— Acteocina sandwicensis.
Acteocina sandwicensis (Pease).
Fig.
2.
1860.
Tornatina sandwicensis Pse., F. Z. S., p. 19; description reprinted in Man.
Conch.
XV, 190.
Pease's set of this species, No.
31712, M. C. Z., consists of five somewhat beach worn specimens, all of them having lost the nuclear whorls.
There are, I think, two species in the lot, both of which have been dredged together by Mr. Kuhns, off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fathoms.
As these specimens are perfect, the figure is drawn from one of them.
No.
117071, A. N. S. P. The form which may be taken as typical A. sandwicensis is cylindric, white, glossy, with minute sculpture of close, superficial spiral stria?, not extending upon the shoulder or spire.
The spire is convexly conic.
The nuclear whorl is more than half immersed.
There are 3| subsequent whorls.
The columellar is rather straight, with a very small fold above, and in an oblique view in the aperture a low prominence may be seen near the base.
The inner lip has a rather heavy callus.
Outer lip is strongly arched forward, as usual.
Length 4.05, diam.
1.7 mm.
Acteocina honoluluensis n. sp.
Fig.
3.
This species is similar to A. sandivicensis in size and sculpture.
It differs by the noticeably longer spire and the projecting nucleus,.
the uptilted whorl being wholly exposed.
The columellar fold is slightly more prominent.
Length 4.3, diam.
1.65 mm.
Off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fathoms, with A. sandwicensis.
Type No.
117070, A. N. S. P., from Mr. Thaanum, collected by D. B. Kuhns.
Atys kuhnsi n. sp.
Figs.
4 a, b, c. The shell is narrowly umbilicate, oval, the diameter about twothirds of the length; widest slightly above the middle; thin, semitransparent, white, opaque white at base and vertex, marked with narrow, irregularly waved (sometimes branching) tawny or cinnamonbrown streaks.
The surface is glossy, with sculpture of engraved encircling grooves; the intervals being closely sculptured with circular striae near the ends, but smooth towards the middle, where the grooves are wider apart (and, except in the largest individuals,, there is a smooth zone in the middle, which narrows progressively with age).
The vertex has a very small and shallow concavity about the posterior axis.
The axis posteriorly has a moderate, obliciue fold.
The columella is narrow, nearly straight, but there is a small prominence below the middle.
The aperture is narrowly rounded anteriorly.
Figs.
4a, b.
— Atys kuhnsi.
4c white variety erf same.
Fig.
5.
— Atys semistriata.
Length 15.8, diarri^ 10-mm.
(type, fig.
4a).
Off Waikiki, Oahu, in 25 to 50 fathoms, D. B. Kuhns, 1917; type and paratype No.
117074, A. N. S. P. Two specimens, out of eight received from Mr. Thaanum, are pure white, without markings.
It is an exquisite shell, which may appropriately be dedicated to Mr. Kuhns, who has dredged successfully over very difficult, bottom on the kona shore of Oahu.
By the coloration it resembles Bulla ferriujinosa Chemn., A. Adams, in Sowerby's Thesaurus ConchyUorum II, p. 585, PI.
124, fig.
110, but differs by the decidedly less globose contour of A .
kuhnsi.
Bulla ferruginosa Gmelin {Syst.
Nat.
13, p. 3432) is a young Cyprcea^ so that A. Adams' form requires a new name.
It may be called Atys naucum strigata.
The habitat is unknown.
Atys semistriata Pease.
Fig.
5.
1860.
Atys semistriata Pse., P. Z. S., p. 20; description reprinted in Man, Conch.
XV, p. 267.
The shell is narrowly umbilicate, truncate-ovate, widest below the middle, thin, bluish-white in the middle, opaque white at both ends.
The rounded vertex is closely striate spirally, not deeply sunken in the center.
Upper part sculptured with about 12 spiral impressed lines, the base with about 16; the middle third smooth.
The axial fold above the vertex is rather low and rounded.
Columella deeply concave, thin.
Length 14, diam.
8 mm.
The largest individual in Pease's lot.
No.
31716, Mus.
Comp.
Zool., is described and figured.
I found specimens on the north shore of Kahoolawe.
The apex is not perforate, as Pease described it, but the spiral curvature of the axis there gives the impression of perforation, in a superficial view.
Atys debilis Pea.se.
Fig.
7.
1860.
Atys debilis Pse., P. Z. S., p. 20; description reprinted in ]\Ian.
Conch.
XV, 266.
The type of the species was said by Pease to be in the Cuming collection, so it is likely that that Sowerby's figures {Conch.
Icon.
XVII, Atys, PI.
5, fig.
28a, b) were drawn from it.
I am giving an enlarged photographic copy of one of these figures for comparison with the following species, from which A. debilis differs by being "narrowed posteriorly."
Sowerby's figure is 14.8 mm.
long.
The figures in Man.
Conch, were copied from Donum Bisinarkianum..
It is curious that Pease did not mention the projecting point of the fold at the summit, which shows in Sowerby's figure.
Atys cornuta n. sp.
Fig.
8.
The shell is thin, cylindric-oblong, tapering to both ends, nearly white.
Sculpture of spiral grooves at both ends, about 6 deep and two or three minute ones, more spaced, at the upper end, numerous unequal grooves on the lower third.
The vertex is narrow, deeply impressed around the axis, a spiral furrow or concavity within.
218 [June, The ascending axis is broad, very obliquely spiral, terminating in a posteriorly projecting point.
Anteriorly the axis is very minutely perforate; columella broad, concave, appressed above, obliquely truncate below.
Length 10.6, diam.
4.8 mm.
Off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fathoms, D. B. Kuhns.
Type No.
117075, A. N. S. P., from No.
397a Thaanum coll.
Also Hilo, Hawaii.
This form agrees with the account and figures of A. debilis except in shape; it is wider in the upper part, though not at the vertex.
As no specimen of A. debilis is in the Pease collection at Cambridge, and comparison with the supposed type in London is impracticable at this time, the present form is described subject to further investigation.
The summit is more pinched up into a narrow ridge than in A. cijlindrica (Helbling) or A. parallela Gld.
A. hyalina Watson is less slender.
The species reaches a size considerably greater than the specimen serving as type.
One from Hilo, sent by Mr. Thaanum (No.
117076) measures, length 15, diam.
6.7 mm.
There are about 11 spiral grooves on the upper fourth, followed by 4 or 5 slightly elevated spirals, the basal third, below the smooth space, having many spiral grooves, as usual.
Fig.
6.
— Atys costulosa.
Fig.
7.
— Atys debilis.
Fig.
8.-Atys cornuta.
Atys costulosa Pease.
Fig.
6.
1869.
Atys costulosa Pse., Amer.
Journ.
Conch.
V, p. 73.
1893.
Atys costulosa Pse., Pilsbry, Man.
Conch.
XV, p. 267.
Waimalu, Oahu; Type No.
31714 Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Pease coll.
This species is quite distinct by the well developed longitudinal 1917.1 219 folds.
There are deep spirals at both ends, about 10 above, columella is slightly concave, widely reflected, bounded by a groove as usual, and indistinctly truncate basally.
White.
It appears to be closely related to A. debilis and A. cornuta, which have no longitudinal plication.
Length 5, diam.
2.3 mm.
Fig.
9.
— H. a. oahuensis.
Fig.
10.
— H. c. tomaculutn.
Haminea aperta oahuensis n. subsp.
Fig.
9.
Compared with H. aperta Pse.
of Tahiti, this shell differs by being more swollen in the middle, and malleate (like some Lymnseas) in the peripheral region.
It is white, and without engraved spirals.
Length 14.5, diam.
10 mm.
On the shore of Oahu, 1| miles east of Kahuku.
Type No.
117072, A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913.
The type of H. aperta originally illustrated by Pease, No.
57575 A. N. S. P., has been compared.
Haminea curta tomaculum n. subsp.
Fig.
10.
Resembling H. curta A.
Ad., but narrower, strictly cylindrical; narrowly perforate at both ends.
Columella very narrow, hardly reflected; sculpture of minute, unequal, close spiral striae, with about 30 distinctly deeper spirals, close towards the base, elsewhere rather widely and unequally spaced.
Length 12.4, diam.
5.5 mm.
Off Honolulu, 6 to 8 fathoms.
D. B. Kuhns, 1916.
Type No.
117073 A. N. S. P., from No.
1181a Thaanum coll.
The "original figure of H. curta, as well as the specimens before me, is distinctly shorter and wider than this Hawaiian form, with the sides more convex and the lip ascending less at the posterior end.
H. cuticuUfera Smith and H. cairnsiana Melv.
are related forms.
16 III.
THE MELANELLID^ {Eulimidoe).
The absence of sculpture and the rarity of color, together with the simplicity of form, reduce the number of available specific characters in this family, rendering determination of species difficult.
The arrangement of varices, whether in one or two longitudinal straight or spiral series, or sparsely scattered, is a valuable feature, also the width of the gray border below the suture, and the curvature of the outer lip; but these have often been overlooked in published descriptions.
The size of the apex is often useful, also the degree of curvature, which, however, is individually rather variable.
All of the known Hawaiian species are mentioned below, but there are certainly many more.
At least half a dozen species, beach material, are represented in our collection hy specimens somewhat worn, or by single shells which may not be adult, though obviously distinct.
Melanella thaanumi n. sp.
PI.
XIV, figs.
5 to 6 a.
The shell is white, slightly transparent, rather solid, with strongly developed curvature in two directions.
Whorls very slightly convex, each with one varix.
The varices are opaque white, the series ascending the spire spirally on the right side and back, making between a fourth and a half turn.
The aperture is ovate.
Outer lip arches very strongly forward.
Length 25, diam.
7 mm.
; length of aperture 6 mm.
; 13 wdiorls, the apical ones lost (type, figs.
5, 5a).
An immature specimen 19 mm.
long has 16 whorls, the apex perfect.
Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum.
Type and paratypes No.
108471 A. N. S. P. Also No.
19764, from Dr. Newcomb, from ''Sandwich Islands. "
This species is probably Eulima arcuata Sowerby, Conch.
Icon., PI.
2, fig.
14, 1865, not E. arcuata C. B.
Ad., 1849.
None of the series before me is so much curved as Sowerby's figure, yet the individuals vary considerably in curvature.
There is an allied species from Mauritius (PI.
XIV, figs.
2, 2a) which differs from thaanumi by the somewhat larger size and wider form.
It differs from Eulima major by the much more strongly arched outer lip.
Length 28.5, diam.
9, length of aperture 8 mm.
; 15 whorls, some at the apex lost.
This form may be called Melanella robillardiana.
Type No.
19763 A. N. S. P., figs.
2, 2a; two other specimens; collected by V. Robillard.
Melanella major (Sowb.
),* from Tahiti, is a larger, less curved ^ Eulima major Sowerby, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1834, p. 7; Conchological Illustrations, Eulima fig.
1 (not fig.
1*, and probably not fig.
1**).
Locality, Tahiti.
species in which the outer Hp is far less strongly arched, and the shell more opaque.
The row of varices is nearly straight.
A topotype, received from Mr. Cuming, is figured for comparison, PI.
XIV, figs.
1, la.
Melanella inflexa (Blainv.)
(as Phasianella inflexa, Blainville, Manuel de Malacologie, p. 439, PI.
35, fig.
5), from Isle of France, is a smaller, much more broadly conic species, according to the figures.
It is certainly not identical with M. major, as surmised by Tryon.
Melanella cumingi medipacifica n. subsp.
PI.
XIV, figs.
4, 4a.
This form is less robust than M. cumingi A. Ad.,^ with a narrower aperture.
It is very slightly bent, almost straight.
The varices are at irregular intervals of from a half to about three-fourths of a whorl, the last whorl with none.
They appear on the last 10 whorls at least.
The shell is white throughout.
Length 24, diam.
7.5 mm.
; 12 whorls, several at the apex lost.
Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum.
Type and paratype No.
108473 A. N. S. P. This may be the adult form of Eulima conoidalis Sowerby, Conch.
Icon.
XV, 1866, PI.
3, fig.
22, described from the Sandwich Islands, Mus.
Cuming.
It is a point to be settled by further investigation, and the comparison of half grown examples of medipacifica with conoidalis.
Melanella labiosa (Sowerby).
PI.
XIV, figs.
3, 3a.
1834.
Eulima labiosa Sowb., P. Z. S. p. 7 (Island of Annaa, Pacific Ocean); Conchol.
Illustr.
fig.
2.
1855?
Eulima labiosa Sowb.
A. Adams, Thes.
Conch.
II, PL 169, fig.
31.
1886.
E. labiosa Sowb.
(as svnonym of E. brevis Sowb.
), Tryon, Man.
Conch.
VIII, p. 267, PI.
68,^fig.
2.
The shell is white, rather solid, somewhat curved, conic, the whorls noticeably convex.
Varices in a single lateral series on the right side, which recedes to a dorsal position on the early whorls.
The aperture is rather broadly ovate; outer lip prominent above the middle, strongly receding from there to the suture.
Length 19, diam.
7.6, length of aperture 6 mm.
; 11^ whorls, the tip wanting.
Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum.
Figured specimen is No.
117067 A. N. S. P., from No.
3807 Thaanum collection.
While related to M. thaanumi, this is easily distinguished by its ^ Eulima cumingi A. Adams, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
1851, p. 277; Sowerby's Thesaurus Conchyhorum II, PI.
169, fig.
26.
Lord Hoods Island, South Seas, on Avicula margaritifera.
much more conic form, whiter color, etc.
The specimens vary a good deal in degree of curvature, some being less, others more curved than the one figured.
The Hilo specimens agree well with the figures of E. lahiosa, l)ut I have not had topotypes for comparison.
Tryon considered labiosa a synomym of Eidima brevis Sowb., but this appears to me improbable.
The description and figure are from a Hilo shell.
Melanella vafra nn. Fig.
lie,/.
1867.
Eulima inflexa Pease, Amer.
Journ.
of Conch.
Ill, p. 294.
Not Phasianella inflexa Blainville, also a Melanella.
The spire is attenuate above and has a gentle double curvature.
There is one series of varices, beginning a little behind the aperture on the penult whorl receding upward to a dorsal position.
The outer lip is thin, strongly and evenly arched, the basal margin not retracted.
The shell is bluish white, but slightly transparent, having the usual opaque white area behind the lip; sutural border gray.
Length 8.4, diam.
3.8 mm.
; 14 whorls, Viti Islands, A. J. Garrett.
Type No.
59233 A. N. S. P. Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum.
Mr. Tryon thought this a synomym of Eulima solida Sowb., but in a considerable series seen, the outer lip is never thickened as Sowerby described and figured for his species.
The present form appears to resemble Melanella pyromidalis (A.
Ad.
), from the Philippines, which, however, has a thicker spire.
The spire appears a little more curved in a view intermediate between those drawn in figures e and /.
The Hilo specimens are a little more curved than those from Fiji.
One is figured, PI, XIV, fig.
7.
Melanella aciculata (Pease).
Fig.
l la, 6, c. 1860.
Eulima aciculala Pease, P. Z. S., p. 438 (Sandwich Islands).
1866.?
Eulima aciculata Pease, Sowerby, Conch.
Icon!
XV, PI.
5, figs.
36a, b.
Not Pasithea aciculala Lea, 1833, = Strombiformis aciculata (Lea).
A specimen from the Pease collection.
No.
31705 Mus.
Comp.
Zool., is draw^n in figs.
11a, h. The upper third is quite slightly bent in two directions.
There is a slight bulging close to the apex (fig, lib), the earlier three whorls forming a wider cone than the later ones.
This is noticeable on both specimens in the Pease collection, but not in those from Hilo.
There are very few inconspicuous varices, one each on the penult and next earlier whorls are all I can make out.
The suture is a fine line.
Some distance below it there is a creamy band (marking the internal suture) in the bluish white 1917, 223 shell.
The whorls are almost flat.
The outer lip is rather strongly and evenly arched forward.
Length 5.8, diam.
1.9, lenglh of aperture 1.6 mm.
; about 12 whorls.
Length 5.5, diam.
1.8 mm.
This species is a true Melanella conchologically, though some examples are nearly straight in front view.
It certainly differs from M. acicula (Gld.)
{Stylifer acicula Gld.
), of which specimens of the original lot from Gould have been compared.
The very much narrower sutural margin, the straighter form and more transparent shell of M. acicula are characteristic.
Eulima exilis Pease^ is a Fig.
11.
— a, b, Melanella aciculata, Pease coll.
c, M. aciculata, Hilo.
d, M. kahoolawensis.
e, f, M. vafra. '
Eulima exilis Pease, P. Z. S., 1862, p. 242; Amer.
Journ.
of Conch.
Ill, p. 294, PI.
24, fig.
25.
It has been united by Tryon with E. pusilla Sowerby, from Sta.
Elena, Bay of Guayaquil, Ecuador, but in my opinion erroneously; Sowerby 's figure, Conch.
Illustr.
fig.
6, is very different.
It is not Eulima exilis Gabb, Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila.
IV, p. 385 (November, 1860).
As the original description of E. exilis Pease was inadequate, the published figure poor, and the name preoccupied, the species may be redescribed as follows: Eulima pisorum.
(Figs.
I2a, 6.)
The shell is almost straight, bluish white, opaque white at the last third of the last whorl.
Suture linear, inconspicuous, having a narrow clear margin, rather sharply defined, more opaque below the margin.
Whorls hardly perceptibly convex.
There is a rather inconspicuous variceal line preceded by an opaque area on the back of the antepenult whorl, another on the second whorl above it.
224 [June, more slender shell, with the sutural margin narrower, and the spire less bent.
Eulima venusta Pease, from the Paumotus, is very closely related to aciculata, but perfect specimens have a larger apex; the outer lip, also, is somewhat more arched forward.
So far as I know, there is no reliable record of Eulima adcula (Gld.)
from the Hawaiian group.
Tryon's record seems to have pertained to Eulima aciculata Pease, of Sowerby, which he appears to have thought was not the true aciculata of Pease, but was a synomym of acicula.
This opinion seems to me without adequate foundation.
Try on has recorded two synomyms of E. acicula: Eulima vitrea A.
Ad.
(Fiji) and Leiosiraca pyramidaUs Sowb.
(Hab.
unknown.)
From the figures, these appear to be rightly placed.
Mr. Thaanum's specimens of M. aciculata from Hilo, Hawaii (No.
82228 and 108472 A. N. S.), differ from the Pease examples by being a little more robust, with the early whorls slightly more attenuate (fig.
lie).
Length 9, diam.
2.75, length of aperture 2.3 mm.
; 16 whorls (PI.
XIV, fig.
8a).
Length 8.8, diam.
2.75, length of aperture 2.5 mm.
(PI.
XIV, fig.
8).
The aperture is narrowly ovate.
Outer lip runs rather far forward and is retracted again at the base.
Length 10.9, diam.
3.1 mm.
; length of aperture 3 mm.
; 14 whorls.
It resembles M. aciculata (Pse.
), but the margin below the suture is narrower, the last whorl is wider, and especially, the apex is larger.
.
Viti Islands.
Type No.
19773, collected by A. Garrett.
Others from the same source are in the collection received from Pease.
/ Fig.
12o.
b. Melanella pisorum.
Fig.
12c, Mucronalia nilidula.
Melanella kahoolawensis n. sp.
PI.
XIV, fig.
9.
The shell is irregularly but slightly curved, acuminate near the apex, solid, whitish.
The whorls are nearly flat, suture not impressed, bordered below by a rather wide grajdsh-white band.
On the penult whorl there is one varix near the left side, the two preceding whorls each having a varix on the right side.
The aperture is ovate; outer lip blunt, strongly retracted above (fig.
lid).
Columella vertical, somewhat thick.
Length 9.4, diam.
3.25 mm.
; length of aperture 3 mm.
; about 12 whorls.
Kahoolawe, northern shore; t>i3e No.
116219, collected by Pilsbry, 1913.
This species is related to M. acicula, but the spire is stouter, more attenuate near the apex, the aperture is larger and the outer lip more retracted above.
Melanella opaca (Sowerby).
Eulima opaca Sowb., Conch.
Icon.
XV, 1865, PI.
4, fig.
30 (Sandwich Is.).
Specimens from Hilo, "found only on sea cucumbers" by Mr. Thaanum, are figured, PI.
XIV, fig.
11.
The identification is provisional, as Mr. Sowerby's description does not mention several important characters.
The shell is solid, slippery, opaque white, without a distinct margin below the suture.
The spire is slightly curved, the apex deciduous.
Whorls are slightly convex, and have a straight series of deeply impressed varix-grooves along the right side.
The outer lip is rather thick, a little contracted, and only weakly arched forward.
Length 11, diam.
4 mm.
; 8| whorls remaining.
The specimens are No.
94583 A. N. S. P., from No.
845 of Mr. Thaanum's collection.
Melanella solida (Sowerby).
Eulima solida Sowb., Conch.
Icon.
XV, 1865, PI.
3, fig.
18 (Sandwich Is.).
I have not seen this species, which should be recognizable by the thick lip.
Melanella conoidalis (Sowerby).
Eulima conoidalis Sowb., Conch.
Icon.
XV, 1865, PI.
3, fig.
22 (Sandwich Is.
)Possibly an immature shell.
Melanella acanthyllis (Watson).
Eulima acanthyllis Wats., Challenger Rep., Gastropoda, p. 512, PI.
35, fig.
8, (Reef off Honolulu, 40 fathoms).
A minute species, about 2.5 x 0.8 mm.
Mucronalia nitidula Pease; Fig.
12c.
1S60.
Mucronalia nitidula Pease, P. Z. S. p. 437 (Sandwich Is., lives on Holothurife).
1866.
Eulima nitidula Pease, Sowerby, Conch.
Icon.
XV, PI.
5, figs.
35a, b.
1886.
Eulima (Mucronalia) nitidula Pease, Tryon, Man.
of Conch.
VIII, p. 284.
Not Eulima nitidula A.
Ad., 1855.
The shell is solid, opaque white, straight, of rather stronghj convex whorls; apex lost, but the first whorl of those retained is disproportionately small.
There are no varices.
Aperture is ovate, the outer lip arching forward in the middle.
Length 4.5, diam.
2.2 mm.
; 6 whorls remaining.
Length of aperture 1.7 mm.
(Metatype of E. nitidula Pse.).
Length 3.9, diam.
2.1 mm., 5| whorls remaining.
Length of aperture 1.5 mm.
(Quarantine Island, Honolulu).
Quarantine Island, Honolulu, D. B. Kuhns, 1915.
The contained animal gives a faintly ochraceous tint to part of the last whorl.
The solidity and convex whorls are characteristic.
The larger of two specimens of M. nitidula Pse.
in the Pease collection.
No.
31711 Mus.
Comp.
Zool., is drawn in fig.
12c.
The specimens from Quarantine Island are slightly smaller but otherwise identical in characters.
Mucronalia rosea (Pease).
1860.
Mucronalia rosea Pse., P. Z. S., p. 437 (Sandwich Is., lives on Echini).
1866.
Eulima rosea Pse., Sowerby, Conch.
Icon.
XV, PI.
5, fig.
39.
1886.
Eidima {Mucronalia) rosea Pease, Tryon, Man.
Conch.
VIII, p. 284.
Mucronalia sandvichensis (Sowerby).
1866.
Eulima sandvichensis Sowb., Conch.
Icon.
XV, PI.
3, fig.
21 (Sandwich Is.).
1886.
Eidima (Mucronalia) sandvichensis Sowb., Tryon, Man.
Conch.
VIII, p. 284.
The original figure is 16 mm long.
Mucronalia ovata Pease.
1860.
Mucronalia ovata Pse., P. Z. S., p. 437 (Sandwich Is.).
"Shell elongately ovate, light, dull shining; whorls 5, shghtly convex; inner lip thickened at the base and extending by a callositj^ over the columella to the junction of the outer lip.
Colour dull white.
Lives on Echini."
A lost species, which can scarcely be identified without dimensions, figure or type.
Scalenostoma (Hyperlia^ apiculatum (Souverbie).
PI.
XIV, figs.
10, 106.
Scalenostoma apiculatum Souv., Journ.
de Conchyl.
1876, p. 383; 1877, p. 77, PI.
1, fig.
1.
Hilo, Hawaii.
Mr. Thaanum found four specimens.
Two were in holes in coral from which they could not escape, nor could they move, apparently, l)eing firmly wedged in; two others were found free, on coral.
Two specimens sent are figured.
It is the narrower one which agrees with Souverbie's description and figure.
It measures, length 7.8, diam.
3.7 mm.
The wider one measures, length 7, diam.
3.9 mm.
With so small a numl:)er, one can hardly tell whether the difference is merely individual variation or of specific significance.
Temporarily the wide variety may be called form latior (fig.
10&).
S. apiculatum was described from a single example from Mauritius, not from New Caledonia, as Tryon stated {Man.
Conch.
VIII, p. 287).
The apical whorl,s of this shell are like those of Stylifer, and unlike .Scalenostoma.
It may be taken as type of a new section distinguished by the smooth attenuate early whorls, and to be called Hyperlia.
Whether an operculum is present has not been ascertained.
It appears much nearer to Mucronalia than to Melanella in characters of the shell.
Stylifer robustus Pse.
is reported by Mr. Pease as living on Echini, but the exact locality in the Islands was not given.
.Subularia metcalfei (A.. Adams).
Fig.
I3a.
6.
1855?
Leiostraca metcalfei A.
Ad., in Sowerby's Thesaurus Conch.
II, p. 802, PL 1.70, figs.
12, 13.
1853.
Leiostraca metcalfei A.
Ad., H. and A. Adams, Gen. Rec.
Moll.
I, p. 238, PI.
25, fig.
3a.
1917.
Subularia metcalfei A.
Ad., Bartsch.
Nautilus XXX, p. 134, PI.
5, fig.
2 (enlarged copy from Thes.
Conch.).
Pease was the first to determine the locality of this peculiar snail tto be the "Sandwich Islands," but as usual did not note the exact place.
One of his shells, No.
19822 A. N. S. P., is drawn.
It is ibluishwhite with ochraceous* markings disposed as in the figure.
None of the shells seen have them in such regular festoons as are shown in the Thesaurus figure, which apparently served as the original of Dr. Bartch's enlarged view.
The spire is just perceptibly ;bent in the upper part, composed of slightly convex whorls.
There is series of curved, linear varix-lines on both right and left sides, the ilines receding a little with ascent of the spire, so that in the upper part they are dorsal and ventral.
The later whorls are rather con;spicuously compressed between dorsal and ventral sides, as shown in the basal outline, fig.
136, and there is a flattened area on the face, near the base, banded by an acute, ascending curved angulation on * The specimens are beach shells, and the color has probably faded more or less.
the left, shown as a short Hne in fig.
13a.
The aperture is very narrow, inner Hp straight, and heavily calloused in the middle.
Length 8.8, diam.
3 mm.
; about 9 whorls.
Suhularia has recently been restricted by Dr. Bartsch to the type S. metcalfei A.
Ad.
Leiostraca distorta Pease forms a second species of the group, no others being known to belong to it.
Suhularia differs from Melanella {Eulima) by its compressed shape and by having a flattened area at the base of the ventral side, between the columella and a short angular longitudinal ridge on the left side; the aperture is very narrow, more than twice as long as wide, and the inner lip is straight.
Suhularia is somewhat like Strombiformis {Leiostraca of most authors) in its narrow mouth, but it is probably more closely related to Melanella by the varices.
The flattened area is an unique feature.
The genus Chileutomia Tate and Cossmann differs by its projecting varices.^ The two species known are very distinct by the following characters.
Spire nearly straight, with varix-lines on the right and left sides (Section Subularia); colored markings present.
S. metcalfei.
Spire strongly curved, with varix-lines on the right side only (Section Hemiliostraca).
Shell without color markings, S. distorta.
A very minute specimen from Smuggler's Bay, Kahoolawe, a larger one from the north coast of Molokai and several from the beach near Waikiki, Oahu, seem to be Subularite, but as part are single specimens and none in fresh condition they are mentioned here merely as an indication that there are other species.
Single shells are particularly inconclusive in this family, as there is nothing to definitely mark the adult stage.
Subularia distorta (Pease).
Fig.
13c, d. 1860.
Leiostraca distorta Pease, P. Z. S., p. 438.
1866.
Leiostraca distorta Pease, Sowerby, Cpnch.
Icon., PI.
3, fig.
15.
1886.
Eulima peasei Tryon, Man.
Conch.
VIII, p. 281.
One of two specimens in the Pease coUection, No.
31706 Mus.
Comp.
Zool., is figured.
The spire is bent to the right, and in the upper part it bends towards the ventral side.
There are linear, inconspicuous, impressed varix-lines on the right side of the last two whorls.
In a basal view the shell is seen to be strongly compressed between dorsal and ventral sides (fig.
13c).
The ventral side is flattened near the base, the flattening bounded by a longitudinal angulation on the left side.
The internal axis is faintly visible • 9 See Hedley, Proc.
Linn.
Soc, N. S. Wales, 1930, p. 50.5.
1917.]
229 through the bluish-white shell.
The suture is very inconspicuous, indeed difficult to see, not distinct as the line figure shows.
There is a wide border below the suture, bounded by a white line, on the last two whorls.
The aperture is very narrow and long, the inner lip nearly straight, calloused.
The outer lip curves forward somewhat in the middle.
Length 5.75, diam.
2 mm.
Length 5.6, diam.
1.8 mm.
; about 7 whorls.
This species is related to *S. metcalfei.
It also has some resemblance to Melania distorta Philippi, Eulima curva Jeffr., and E. incurva Fig.
13a, b.
— Subularia metcalfei.
c. d. S. distorta.
Figs, b and c are basal outlines.
Ren., of the Mediterranean.
In these the mouth is somewhat narrower than in Melanella, and a single series of linear varices runs up the right side and curves towards the dorsal side as usual; but they do not have the other characters of Subularia.
On account of the prior use of the name distorta for species belonging to Eulima {Melanella), Tryon renamed this species E. peasei; but if we consider Suhidaria a group of generic rank there is no conflict of names.
Niso sandwichensis Sowerby.
Niso sanduxichensis Sowb., Conch.
Icon.
XV, PI.
1, fig.
1 (Sandwich Is.).
Niso sandwichensis Sowb., Tryon, Man.
Conch.
VIII, p. 288.
Explanation of Plates XIV and XV.
-Note.
— Figs.
1 to 6a are twice natural size; figs.
7 to 11, 3 J times nat.
size.
Plate XIV.
— Figs.
1, la.
— Melanella major (Sowerby).
Tahiti.
Figs.
2, 2a.
— Melanella robillardiana n.
sp., Mauritius.
Figs.
3, 3a.
— Melanella labiosa (Sowb.).
Hilo, Hawaii.
Figs.
4, 4a.
— Melanella cumingi medipacifica n.
subsp., Hilo, Hawaii.
Figs.
5, 5a.
— Melanella thaanumi n.
sp., Hilo, Hawaii.
Figs.
6, 6a.
— Melanella thaanumi, a younger individual of the same lot.
Fig.
7.
— Melanella vafra n. sp.
Variety from Hilo, Hawaii.
Figs.
8, 8a.
— Melanella aciculata (Pse.).
Hilo, Hawaii.
Fig.
9.
— Melanella kahoolawensis n.
sp., Kahoolawe.
Figs.
10, 10b.
— Scalenostoma apiculatimi (Souv.).
Hilo, Hawaii.
Fig.
11.
— Melanella optica (Sowb.).
Hilo, Hawaii.
Plate XV.— Figs.
1, 2.—Alcyna rubra Pse.
Pease coll., 31720 M. C. Z.
Fig.
3.
— Alc.yna kapiolanice n.
sp., 117052 A. N. S. P. Fig.
4.—Alcyna lineata Pse.
Pease coll., 31724 M. C. Z. Figs.
5, 6.
— Alcyna subangulata var.
flammulata n. var.
Pease coll., 31723 M. C. Z.
Fig.
7.
— Alcyna subangulata virgata n.
subsp., 116297 A. N. S. P. Fig.
8.
— Alcyna kuhnsi humerosa n.
subsp., 117049 A. N. S. P. Fig.
9.
— Alcyna kuhnsi n.
sp., 117055 A. N. S. P. Fig.
10.
— PhasianeUa molokaiensis n.
sp., 117054 A. N. S. P. Fig.
11.
— PhasianeUa variabilis kahoolawensis n.
subsp., 116188 A. N. S. P. Figs.
12, 14.
— PhasianeUa thaanumi n.
sp., 117053 A. N. S.' P. Fig.
13.
— PhasianeUa bryani n.
sp., 116320 A. N. S. P. DERMAPTEROLOGICAL NOTES.
BY MORGAN HEBARD.
In the many large exotic collections at hand, but very few specimens of Dermaptera are to be found.
In no case are the forms of the order sufficiently represented to give anything but a fragmentary faunistic knowledge, excepting in the West Indian, Mexican, Costa Rican and Panamanian series, which are being reported on separately.
The study of these important series has offered an opportunity to determine the one hundred and four specimens discussed below.
In several instances features of decided interest are encountered, the types of several old species are discussed, while among the thirty-one species recorded, one new genus and six new species are found.
Our hearty thanks are accorded to Dr. F. E. Lutz, of the American Museum of Natural History, Dr. Samuel Henshaw, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology and Prof. Lawrence Bruner, of the University of Nebraska, not only for the loan of undetermined material, but of historic specimens and types as well, enabling us to work out a number of vexing problems.
Mr. A. N. Caudell, of the United States National Museum, has also helped us greatly, but the rule of his institution, preventing the loan of types, has obliged us to omit the consideration of certain species which bear on our work, the status and relationship of which is not at present clearly understood.
PYGIDICRANID^.
PYRAGRIN^.
Pyragra fuscata Serville.
1831.
Pyragra fuscata Serville, Ann.
Sci.
Nat., XXII, p. 34.
[Cayenne.]
Chanchaniayo, Peru, 19, [A. N. S. P.].
Pyragropsis brunnea (Burr).
1909.
Pyragra brunnea Burr, Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., (8), III, p. 254.
[Fonteboa, Brazil {ucc Peru) ; Iguapo, Peru.]
Kangaruma, British Guiana, VII, 13, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; in forest trail), Icf, [A. M. N. H.].
Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 12, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; taken by sifting), 19, [A. M. X. H.].
The male is in every way typical.
The female is larger; length of body, 13.2, of forceps 2.9 mm.
This female has the head, pronotum, tegmina and exposed portion of wings lustreless blackish brown; this, under the microscope, found to be due to a thin but solid coating of some foreign matter.
LABIDURID^.
PSALIN.E.
Tsalis festiva Burr.
1910.
Psalis festiva Burr, Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
London, 1910, p. 182.
[Bahia, Brazil.]
Cariaquito, Venezuela, I, 1911, (S. Brown), 2 9, [A. N. S. P.].
We are by no means convinced that this insect is merely a small, non-melanistic, wingless form of P. gagathina, as indicated by Burr.^ The truncate tegmina alone are visible in these specimens.
Length ■of body 15.8 and 17.5, of forceps 3.4 and 4 mm.
The head is mahogany red, the pronotum burnt sienna.
The tegmina are mars yellow, except narrowly on the caudal margin and more broadly on the cephalic margin, where they are blackish brown, like the abdomen and forceps.
The limbs are clear mars yellow.
Spandez percheron (Guerin and Percheron).
1838.
Forficula percheron Guerin and Percheron, Gen.
Ins., Orth., PL VII.
[French Guiana.]
San Carlos, Costa Rica, Icf, type of Psalis pulchra Rehn, [U. S. N. M.].
Trinidad, (H. D. Chipman), 2 9, types of Labia pictipennis Bruner, [Bruner Cln.].
Caparo, Trinidad, VI and VIII, 1913, (S. M. Klages), Icf , 1 9 , [A. N. S. P. and Hebard Cln.].
Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 11, 1911, (Crampton), 1 9 , [A. M. N. H.].
Rio Caiary-Uaupes, Amazonas, Brazil, XI, 1906, (H. Schmidt), Icf, [A. M. N. H.].
The original figure of this distinctive species is excellent, and we 'do not understand why Burr, after placing pulchra (with a query) and pictipennis in the synonymy under percheron in the Genera Insectorum, has more recently mentioned and also designated pulchra as genotype of Spandex?
These specimens show little variation except in pronotal coloration.
The pronotum varies from solid Sanford's brown, to almost solid blackish bay, two examples showing an intermediate and maculate -condition.
The Brazilian specimen differs from all others before us in having the femora heavily and very broadly annulate with blackish brown.
The male penultimate ventral abdominal segment is remarkable 1 Ann.
k.-k. Naturhist.
Hofmus.
Wien, XXVI, p. 334, (1912).
Burr also included ■there pulchra of Rehn, actually an absolute synonym of Spandex percheron i(Guerin and Percheron).
-Jour.
Royal Microsc.
Soc, 1915, p. 537, (1915).
in having the distal margin narrowly and very weakly emarginate mesad, slightly thickened at each extremity of this emargination and with a minute, elongate-conical styliform process situated in •each, directed caudad.
From the original description of Burr's Psalis rosenbergi, it would appear probable that this condition is also found in that species and that it is likewise a member of the genus Spandex.
^linute tubercles are found along the caudal margins of the fifth to ninth dorsal abdominal segments, particularly in females, these tubercles strongest laterad, from each of which springs a very elongate hair.
Metalabis saramaocensis (Zacher).
1911.
Eu[labis] saramaccensis Zacher, Zool.
Jahrb., Abth.
Syst., XXX, p. 378.
[Sanboden, Saramacca District, and Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana.].
Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana, VIII, 26, 1911, (F. E. Lutz), 1 small juv,, [A. M. N. H.].
Tukeit, British Guiana, VII, 21, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; under boat), 1 small juv., [A. M. N. H.].
Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 11 and 12, 1911, (F. E. Lutz), lo", 2 9, 1 large juv.
cf, 1 small juv., [A. M. N. H.].
Ireng River to Roraima, Brazil, VIII, 6, 1911, (Crampton), 1 9 , [A. M. N. H.].
The brief, longitudinal, rounded, dorso-lateral keels of the distodorsal abdominal segment readily distinguish males of this insect from the numerous other generally similar species of the Psalides.
The present series averages smaller than the type series as measured by Zacher ("Long.
tot.
19-22 mm.
"), but no other features to warrant specific separation appear to exist.
Length of body, cf , 12.; 9 11.5 to 12.; of forceps, cf, 2.6; 9 , 2.3 to 2.4 mm.
Euborellia scudderi (Bormans).
1900.
Ps[alis] scudderi Bormans, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova, (2), XX, p. 449.
[Puerto 14 de Mayo, L'pper Paraguay [now in Bolivian Chaco]; Olivenza, Amazon River [Brazil].]
Chanchamayo, Peru, Scf, [A. N. S. P.].
We are not certain that these specimens represent scudderi, as none of them have the wings showing.
They are unquestionably conspecific with the material from Para, Brazil, recently recorded, with a question, as scudderi by Rehn.^ There is little doubt but that scudderi Bormans and Psalis burri Borelli are referable to Euborellia, these species being, in fact, closely related to Euborellia janeirensis.
The present specimens, when compared with males of janeirensis before us, are found to differ only in the slightly heavier build, complete and rectangular tegmina and n916.
Trans.
Am.
Enl.
Soc, XLII, p. 218. slightly heavier punctulation and lateral carinse of the dorsal abdominal segments.
Euborellia ambigua (Borelli).
1906.
Anisolabis ambigua Borelli, Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
comp.
Univ.
Torino, XXI, No.
531, p. 3.
[Jesus Maria River, Costa Rica.]
Port of Spain, Trinidad, III, 4, 1910, (Crampton & Lutz), IcT, [A. N. S. P.].
This species is closely related to Euborellia janeirensis.
The antennae are not annulate.
Euborellia annulipes 'H.
Lucas).
1847.
Forficesila annulipes Lucas, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France, (2), .V, p^ LXXXIV.
["Jardin des Plant es, Paris"; probably introduced.]
Tomb of Maximus, Rome, Italy, VH, 24, 190S, (M. Hebard; under stone on Campagna), 1 juv., [Hebard Cln.].
LABIDURIN.E.
Labidura xanthopus (St&l).
1855.
Forficesila xanthopus St&l, Oefv.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., XII, p. 348.
Carcarana, Argentina, (L. Bruner), Icf, 19, [A. N. M. H.].
Labidura riparia (Pallas).
1773.
Forficula riparia Pallas, Reise, Russ.
Reichs, pt.
II, p. 727.
[Shores of Irtysch River, western Siberia.]
Biskra, Algeria, 1889, (Desbrothers), lo", [Hebard Cln.].
Tamatave, Madagascar, 1 $ , [Hebard Cln.].
The specimen from Biskra is rather pale, with wings scarcely showing beyond the tegmina and with the two, latero-median projections of the clisto-dorsal abdominal segment distinct.
The specimen from Tamatave is rather dark, with wings projecting one millimeter.
Forcipula despinosa new species.
PI.
XVI, fig.
1.
This is the only species of the genus which has the sides of the abdomen smooth.
This character would assign the species to Labidura in the existing keys, but there is no question that Forcipula is the genus to which the species properly belongs, and it is, indeed, not widely separated from other Indian species, as might be inferred from that single feature.
In the body pubescence the species agrees with F. trispinosa and F. pugnax, but shows closer similarity to F. quadrispinosa in the shape of the forceps.
It is very distinctive in entirely lacking projections of the dorsal abdominal segments and in the microscopically pitted surface of the metazona, tegmina and wings.
Type: d^ ; Northern India.
[Hebard Collection, Type No.
437.]
Size slightly smaller, form similar to that of quadrispinosa .
Head, pronotum, tegmina, exposed surface of wings and dorsal surface of abdomen, except ultimate segment, very finely pubescent, each minute hair springing from a minute pit, these smaller on head and prozona.
* Head otherwise similar to that of quadrispinosa.
Antennae with first and third joints subequal in length, fourth joint about half again as long as broad.^ Tegmina and wings fully developed, broadly rounding laterad, not showing a feeble percurrent keel as in quadrispinosa.
Dorsal surface of abdomen without projections, but with segments, to the penultimate, milled at their caudal margins; ultimate segment narrower than in quadrispinosa, width not two and one-half times length,*^ with a decided medio-longitudinal sulcus and with surface showing microscopic, irregular, impressed lines, which are strongest meso-distad.
Pygidium declivent, large, fitting tightly between forceps, roughly rhomboidal, with distal portion curving inward and margin there broadly convex, surface convex distad, showing two minute, blunted projections.
Forceps elongate, internal margin broadly concave in slightly more than proximal half, with minute widely spaced teeth, thence straight, with more numerous, slightly larger serrations to the distal third of this portion where it is concave and smooth to the apex: shaft in proximal fourth heavy, triquetrous, tapering, with dorsal margin smooth, thence slender, nearly cylindrical to slightly beyond middle point, where it is slightly enlarged and more flattened horizontally, tapering distad to the acute apex.
Ventral surface of abdomen strongly pubescent, distal margin of penultimate segment subtriangularly convex.
Limbs rather long, slender; caudal metatarsus hairy, in length equalling that of the third tarsal joint, with a heavy fringe of hairs along the external margin; tarsal claws elongate and slender.
Length of body, 16.2; of pronotum, 2.4; of tegmen, 4.9; of forceps 8.; width of pronotum, 2.3; of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment, 3.2 Him.
Head, pronotum, tegmina, exposed portion of wings and abdomen chestnut brown, slightly darker on face, shading to claret brown on ^ In quadrispinosa the head is much more weakly pubescent, the prozona almost smooth and hairless, the tegmina and exposed surface of wings more polished, finely granulose and hairless, and the metazona and dorsal surface of the abdomen, except the ultimate segment, is more thickly and minutely granulose, with hardly any hairs.
5 In quadrispinosa the first joint is longer than the combined length of the second and third, the fourth joint as broad as long.
^ Burr's figures show, in his Fauna British India, Dermapt., that he meant rectangular, when he characterized this segment as square, for the species of Forcipula.
17 polished ultimate dorsal abdominal segment, forceps claret brown.
Palpi and limbs cinnamon-buff.
The type is unique.
Forcipula quadrispinosa (Dohrn).
1863.
L[abidura] quadrispinosa Dohrn, Stett.
Ent.
Zeit., XXIV, p. 311.
[Tranquebar, India; Ceylon.]
Phuc-Son, Annam, XI and XII, (for H. Fruhstorfer), Icf, [Hebard Cln.].
This specimen fully agrees with Burr's more adequate diagnosis of the species.
'^ PARISOLABIN^.
Pseudisolabis elegans new species.
PI.
XVI, figs.
2, 3.
The present species is related to P. hurri and P. tenera, easily separable in the male by the much more elongate and evenly curved forceps.
It agrees more nearly with tenera in form, coloration and antennal joints, but with hurri in the form and contour of the ultimate dorsal abdominal segment and proportions of the tarsal joints.
Type: cf ; Kulu, Kangra, India.
(M. M.
Carleton.)
[Museum of Comparative Zoology.]
Size rather small ; form compact, greatest width mesad on abdomen.
Dorsal surface shining, of head and pronotum smooth with hardly any hairs, of abdomen exceedingly finely pubescent, each minute, microscopic hair springing from a minute, microscopic pit, proximal segments with a few small bristles laterad.
Head with sutures subobsolete, a few very feeble depressions indicated meso-caudad on the occiput.
Antennae with third joint elongate, distinctly longer than sixth, (in the majority of specimens longer than any other excepting the first.
The fourth joint is normally wider than long, but varies to appreciably longer than wide.)
Pronotum wider than long, rectangular, with angles sharply rounded; surface weakly convex with a feeble medio-longitudinal sulcus, which is obsolete caudad; concave narrowly laterad, the concavity feebly extending mesad at the juncture of the prozona and metazona, which are fused without further demarkation; lateral margins cingulate.
Mesontum and metanotum very short.
Dorsal abdominal segments simple, with straight caudal margins, which are not produced laterad and are broadly convex latero-ventrad; ultimate segment very short, fully four times as wide as long, slightly depressed and declivent distad in mesal section, with a feeble medio-longitudinal sulcus; caudal margin truncate, feebly rotundato-angulate produced above ''Fauna British India, Dermapt., p. 94, (1910).
the forceps.
Pygidium declivent; subtrigonal, with apex rounded; moderately tumid.
Forceps simple, elongate, gradually tapering and evenly curved to the aciculate apex, cylindrical except in median portion, where the inner surface is flattened.
Penultimate ventral abdominal segment strongly transverse ; caudal margin very broadly convex laterad, very feebly concave in broad mesal portion.
Limbs short, femora stout.
Caudal tibia (normally) with two minute, disto-ventral spines, caudal metatarsus hairy ventrad, with two rows of minute spines and a heavy internal fringe of hairs.
Caudal metatarsus slightly longer than combined length of second and third tarsal joints, second joint more than half as long as third.
Allotype: 9 ; same data as type.
[Museum of Comparative Zoology.]
Agrees Avith male except in the following features: Disto-dorsal abdominal segment very much smaller, projections above forceps slightly broader.
Forceps very short, triquetrous, tapering to the aciculate apex and very weakly curved inward distad; margins smooth, but internal margin feebly lamellate proximad.
Penultimate ventral abdominal segment with distal margin broadly rounded, showing a feeble mesal emargination.
Measurements {in millimeters).
cf Length of Length of Width of Width of Length of body.
pronotum.
pronotum.
abdomen.
forceps.
Type 9.2 1.7 2.2 2.8 3.
Paratype 8.3 1.6 1.9 2.4 2.8 9 Allotype 9.
1.8 2.3 2.9 1.8 Paratype 10.2 1.8 2.3 2.8 1.8 Paratype 10.
1.9 2.3 2.8 1.9 General color shining bay, deepest on head, forceps and distad on abdomen, tarsi paler.
Specimens Examined.
— 5; 2 males and 3 females.
Kulu, Kangra, India, (M. M. Carleton), 2cr, 39, tijpe, allotijpe, paratypes, [M. C. Z., Hebard Cln.
and A. N. S. P.].
LABIID^.
SPONGIPHORIN.E.
^pongiphora bogotensis (Rehn).
1905.
Opislhocosmin bogotensis Rehn, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXIX, p. oil, fig.
8.
[Bogotd., Colombia.]
1911.
Pilex bogotensis Shelford, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXXVIII, p. 460.
(New genus based on Rehn's type.)
Compared with material of the genotype, S. croceipennis, the unique type of the present species, now before us, is found beyond doubt to be a member of the genus Spongiphora.
The pecuUar and distinctive character of the second tarsal joint in the present genus clearly led Rehn to refer the species incorrectly to the Forficulidse, but Burr's erection of a new genus for hogotensis is unwarranted and would not have occurred had comparisons been made.
The species has the general facies, head, proximal antennal joint, tegmina, wings, tarsal joints and general character of proximal dorsal abdominal segments, pygidium and forceps as typical for Spongiphora.
In this genus, the second tarsal joint is nearly as long as the third and both are enlarged; the second is, however, hardly broader than the third and, enlarging suddenly in the proximal portion, does not form the heart-shaped lobe characteristic of the Forficulidse.
The roughness of the abdominal surface in hogotensis, and particularly of the specialized ultimate dorsal segment, are striking features of specific value.
The tarsal joints are thickly supplied with hairs ventrad, as in croceipennis, these hairs, however, being coarser in the present species.
Microvostox basalis (Burr).
1912.
Spongovostox basalis Burr, Ann.
k.-k. Naturhist.
Hofmus.
Wien, XXVI, p. 337, fig.
16.
["El Zumbador" = El Tumbador, San Marcos, Guatemala.]
Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala, III, 27 to IV, 26, 1906, (Barber and Schwarz), 3c?, 2 9 ," 5 juv.,MU.
S. N. M.].
Burr's figure is excellent.
Though the males of this species and of M. hilineatus (Scudder) are extremely different, the females are by no means easily separated.
Those before us of basalis have the pygidium with disto-lateral projections smaller and very slender, the proximal dorso-internal brief shelf of the forceps as broad proximad as distad, the metazona entirely translucent"^ and the longitudinal pale bands at the tegminal shoulders and proximoexternal pale areas of the exposed portion of the wings yellowish.
In females of bilineatus the disto-lateral projections of the pygidium are acute-angulate, but scarcely project caudad of the distal margin, the proximal dorso-internal brief shelf of the forceps narrows proximad, the pronotum is only slightly paler narrowly laterad on the metazona and the pale markings of the tegmina and wings are pale buffy.
* Recorded, in 1907, by Caudell as Spongophora pygmwa, and a pair of the same series by Burr, in 19i0, as Spongophora ghilianii.
^ Kecorded by Caudell, in 190/, as Sparatta flavipennula.
^" This naturally more noticeable laterad.
LABIINiE.
Labia barberi*' new species.
PI.
XVI, fig.
4.
1907.
Labia hilincata Caudell, (not of Scudder, 1869), Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXXIII, p. 173.
[Cacao, Trece Agua.s, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala.]
1910.
Labia bilineata Burr, (not of Scudder, 1869), Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXXVIII, p. 453.
(Same specimen.)
The marking of pronotum and organs of flight are similar to those found in Microvostox hilineatus (Scudder)/the male of which species was unknown at the time this specimen was recorded by Caudell and Burr.
The present species is an aberrant member of the Championi Group.
It is distinctive in the remarkably large eyes and features of the male pygidium and forceps.
Type: (f ; Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala.
April 20, 1906.
(Barber and Schwarz.)
[U. S. National :Museum.
"i Size" very small, form slender.
Head smooth, shining, convex, but with occiput weakly bilobate, due to presence of a distinct mecliolongitudinal suture caudad.
Eyes large, fully twice as long as cheeks.
^^ Antennse with first joint large, nearly as long as combined length of second and third joints; second joint minute; third elongate j expanding slightly only distad; fourth three-quarters as long as third; fifth slightly longer than fourth; succeeding joints increasing slightly in length distad, ovate, the longest slightly more than twice as long as broad.
Pronotum with form as in L. micans Hebard, smooth, with a single bristle at each cephalic angle, length appreciably less than greatest (caudal) width; caudal margin feebly convex; median portion of surface weakly convex, triangular, with apex truncate at caudal margin of pronotum, remaining narrow lateral portions deplanate, feebly ascendent toward lateral margins.
Tegmina and wings fully developed; smooth, shining, hairless.
Abdomen polished, moderately well supplied with hairs laterad; disto-lateral portions of segments not produced, except of eighth, which is broadly rounded.
Ultimate dorsal abdominal segment smooth; caudal margin transverse between forceps, feebly concave laterad.
Pygidium twice as long as mesal width, weakly declivent, convex, with disto-lateral productions deplanate; lateral margins of proximal portion parallel, but each showing a brief convexity ; distal portion bifurcate, forming two large, acute-angulate, slightly divergent projections, whose 11 We take pleasure in naming this interesting species for its collector, our friend Mr. H. S. Barber, an enthusiastic collector and entomological student.
12 See Hebard, Trans.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, XLIII, (1917).
1' The large eyes are remarkable in the genus Labia.
A closer approach to the condition here found, is met with in species of the genus Microvostox.
margins show a very weak convexity.
Forceps nearly straight, showing a weak and regular inward curvature in distal half; surface well supplied with hairs; shaft triquetrous in proximal half, with internal perpendicular face deplanate and ventro-internal margin feebly cingulate, bearing at its distal extremity a very minute but distinct tooth, for one-third the remaining distance the shaft is cylindrical, thence to the aciculate apex flattened cylindrical, with ventro-internal margin again feebly cingulate.
Penultimate ventral abdominal segment with distal margin weakly convex laterad, feebly and broadly concave mesad.
Caudal metatarsus equal to combined length of second and third tarsal joints.
Length of body, 3.67; of pronotum, .68; of tegmen, 1.29; of exposed portion of wing, .7; of forceps, 1.36; Avidth of pronotum, .75 mm.
Head and abdomen shining blackish chestnut brown; median portion of pronotum, tegmina and wings slightly paler.
Lateral portions of pronotum, shoulders of tegmina in an elongate maculation and exposed portion of wings proximo-laterad in a rounded maculation, warm buff.
Forceps ochraceous-tawny.
Limbs buffy; femora, in all but distal portion, suffused with chestnut brown.
The type is unique.
Labia curvicauda (Motschuloky).
1863.
Forficelisa curvicauda Motschulsky, Bull.
Soc.
Nat.
Moscou, XXXVI, p. 2, PL II, fig.
1.
[Nura-Ellia Mountains, Ceylon.]
Trinidad, British West Indies, VI, 1905, (A. Busck), Icf," [U. S. N. M.].
Labia arcuata Scudder.
PI.
XVI, fig.
6.
1876.
Labia arcuata Scudder, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XVIII, p. 257.
[Vassouras, 100 miles north of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.]
Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala, III, 24 to IV, 20, 1906, (Barber and Schwarz), 4d^, 1 9 .^'^ [U. S. N. M.].
Port Limon, Costa Rica, (F. Knab), 1 9, [U. S. N. M.].
Carillo, Costa Rica, (Schild and Burgdorf), 19,^*' [U. S. N. M.].
Labia nodifer^^ new species.
PI.
XVI, fig.
5.
1907.
Labia arcuata Caudell, (in part not of Scudder, 1876), Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXXIII, p. 173.
[Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala.]
The present insect is very closely related to Labia arcuata Scudder, " Recorded in 1907 by Caudell as Labia trinitatis.
1^ Correctly recorded in 1907 by Caudell, but the series of the following species there included under this name.
^* Recorded by Rehn in 1903 as Labia annulata, of which he considered arcuata a synonym.
1^ In allusion to the knobbed tooth of the male forceps.
agreeing fully in general appearance and structure, except in the following characters.
The large series before us, though showing frequent slight individual variations, contains no specimen showing a tendency toward arcuata.
A. cf.
Seventh, eighth and ninth dorsal abdominal segments rather sharply produced and distinctly keeled.
Pygidium with lateral angles produced in minute, acute, conical projections.
Forceps with inner tooth showing an enlarged and knob-like apex.^^ 9 .
Pygidium with lateral angles produced in slender, almost aciculate projections, each nearly one-third as long as the distance between their bases Labia nodijer new species A A. d^.
Eighth and ninth dorsal" abdominal segments weakly produced and keeled.
Pygidium with lateral angles produced in moderately stout, acute, conical projections.
Forceps with inner tooth tapering to acute apex.
9 .
Pygidium with lateral angles produced in minute, acute points, each scarcely longer than its proximal width Labia arcuata Scudder In addition to the diagnostic characters given above, we would add the following to the description of the species.
Type: cf ; Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala.
April 26, 1906.
(Barber and Schwarz.)
[U. S. National Museum.]
Size minute, form moderately robust.
Entire insect thickly covered with microscopic hairs.
Head with vertex moderately convex, showing a very feeble medio-longitudinal suture.
Eyes decidedly less than cheeks in length.
Antennae with first joint equalling combined length of second and third joints; second quadrate; third elongate; fourth about three-quarters as long as third; fifth nearly as long as third; succeeding joints elongate ovate, the longest over four times as long as broad.
Tegmina and wings normal for group.
Scent glands distinct, but not strongly developed.
Pygidium perpendicular, broader than long; surface very feebly bilobate, with few subobsolete rugae; lateral margins feebly and evenly convergent distad; caudal margin, between disto-lateral projections, feebly concave.
Forceps strongly bowed, enclosing a mitre-shaped area, as broad as long when the arms touch at their apices; excavate in median internal portion, proximad with a decided longitudinal flange and just beyond its extremity is situated ventrad a decided tooth.
Ventral surface of abdomen thickly covered with 1* The proximal ventro-internal flange of the forceps varies in intensity in both nodijer and arcuata, but shows an average more decided development in the latter species.
minute, short hairs.
Penultimate ventral abdominal segment with distal margin broadly convex between the forceps.
Caudal metatarsus elongate and slender, distinctly longer than combined length of second and third tarsal joints.
Allotype: 9 ; same data as type, but taken March 29, 1906.
[U. S. National Museum.]
Agrees with male except in the feature noted above and as follows : Pygidium subrectangulate, slightly broader than long, lateral margins very feebly and evenly convergent distad.
Forceps widely separated ;^^ shaft slender, simple, cylindrical, tapering and weakly incurved in distal half to the aciculate apex.
Measurements {in millimeters) .
Length of Length of Width of Length of Length of cf body.
pronotum.
pronotum.
legmen.
forceps.
Cordoba, Mexico 5.4 .82 .82 L63 L16 Type.
Cacao 4.7 .8 .8 L6 L22 ParaY(/pes.
(7) Cacao., 3.8-5.2 .71-.77 .73-.78 L44-L3 L09-L16 9 Fortin, Mexico 5.
.88 .7 1.65 L63 Allotype.
Cacao 4.4 .75 .68 L45 L38 Paratypes.
(11) Cacao 4.
-4.8 .75-.81 .7 -.82 1.36-1.5 1.22-1.29 The series shows quite marked individual size variation.
This is greatest in pronotal proportions and length of.
forceps.
Head dark brown, antenna) with proximal joints dark, one or two distal joints pale.
Pronotum, tegmina and wings shining black, weakly metallic, showing a faint bluish lustre in some lights.
Limbs dark brown, becoming slightly paler toward the apex of the femora and base of the tibiae.
'^ Specimens Examined: 22; 8 males, 13 females and 1 immature individual.
Fortin, Vera Cruz, Mexico, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 19, [Hebard Cln.].
Cordoba, Vera Cruz, Mex., Ill, 1908, (F. Knab; in bromeUads), Icf, [U. S. N. M.].
Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala, III, 29, and IV, 26, 1906, (Barber and Schwarz), To", 12 9 , tyjje, allotype, paratypes, 1 juv., [U. S. N. M.l.
i' See PL XVI, fig.
7.
2" In some individuals the contrast is more decided than in others.
Prolabia modesta (Bnmer).
190G.
Labia modesla Briiner, Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc, XIV, p. 137.2i [Trinidad.]
The unique female type of this species is now before us and is found to represent a species of the Unidentata Group of the genus Prolabia.
It shows very close relationship to the recently described Prolabia dominicce Hebard, differing from females of that species in the decidedly larger size, exposed portion of wings with a large proximoexternal yellowish huffy spot and ultimate dorsal abdominal segment with a few minute rugae in the medio-distal depressed area, before the marginal row of minute rugse, which row is broken mesad.
The males will probably show much more decided differences between these species.
The measurements of this type are: length of body 7.5, of pronotum 1.2, of tegmen 2.1, of exposed portion of wing 1.4, of forceps 2.2; width of pronotum 1.15, greatest width of abdomen 1.8 mm.
Both modesta and dominicce are distinctive in the females having no large, blunt, dorso-proximal projection on the internal face of the forceps.
Prolabia ascensionis new species.
PI.
XVI, figs.
S, 9.
This small insect, which is shining reddish brown with a pale spot on the exposed portion of each wing, is of the characteristic color type of the Unidentata Group of the genus Labia and of numerous species of the Spongiphorince.
The male pygidium is quadrate as in P. arachidis, but with distal portion differently sculptured and the forceps, though bidentate, much as is normal in that species, are less flattened. '
The insect is smaller and distinctly less robust than arachidis and does not have the befouled, greasy appearance of that insect.
Type: cf ; Ascension Island, South Atlantic.
[Museum of Comparative Zoology.]
Size rather small; form moderately robust, but not nearly as robust as arachidis.
Head much as in that species, sutures subobsolete.
Antennae (in series with eleven to thirteen joints), with third about equal in length to first, fourth slightly over half as long as third; 21 Professor Bruner has very kindly sent for examination the types of the species of Dermaptera described by him in this paper.
The synonymy will be discussed under the species involved, in the series of dermapterological studies about to appear, the names being assignable as follows: Labia modesta = Prolabia modesta (Bruner).
Labia pictipennis = Spandex percheron (Guerin and Pereheron).
Labia insularis = Vostox brunneipennis fServille).
Labia trinitatis = Labia dorsalis (Burmeister).
succeeding joints pyriform, the longest about three times as long as broad.
Pronotum subquadrate; lateral margins cingulate and very feebly diverging caudad, caudal angles more broadly rounded than cephalic angles, caudal margin very weakly convex; prozona weakly convex, metazona subdeplanate, very weakly convex caudad.
Tegmina fully developed, nearly twice as long as pronotum; wings fully developed, extending beyond tegmina distinctly more than pronotal length, costal margin rounding broadly distad to sutural margin.
Dorsal abdominal segments with third showing very weakly developed stink glands, fourth with these glands slightly larger, eighth and ninth segments feebly produced dorso-laterad with margin there convex.
Ultimate dorsal abdominal segment smooth, triangularly weakly concave meso-distad, not three times as broad as long, rectangular, with caudal margin truncate.
Pygidium quadrate, feebly declivent; surface in minute proximo-mesal area triangularly feebly concave, thence feebly convex on each side, with surface showing minute, scattered projections; lateral margins almost parallel, with a few, minute median projections, very feebly convex to distolateral angles, which are terminated by a small point; thence the distal margin on each side is briefly very weakly oblique to small rounded knobs, between which the median portion, comprehending over half the distal margin, is feebly concave.
Forceps much as in arachidis, cylindrical, moderately flattened horizontally, but not as much as in that species; shaft feebly convex, with ventro-internal margin feebly lamellate to just beyond pygidium, this lamella there terminating in a minute tooth, directed caudad, and with a similar tooth, but perpendicular to the shaft, slightly more than half the distance from the proximal tooth to the apex.
Caudal metatarsus appreciably longer than combined length of second and third tarsal joints, ventral surface well supplied with hairs.
Allotype: 9 ; same data as type.
[Museum of Comparative Zoology.]
Agrees with type except in the following features.
Pygidium much as in this sex of arachidis, very briefly and broadly triangularly deplanate proximad, thence with surface declivent and concave, produced ventrad between the forceps in a small, subquadrate projection, with disto-lateral angles produced in minute, conical projections and ventral surface very feebly convex and rugulose.
Forceps straight to near apex, feebly triquetrous, enlarged at base, thus embracing the pygidium, thence tapering to the moderately incurved apices, with internal face and ventral margin supplied with a few blunt tubercles.
Measurements {in millimeters) .
Length of Length of Width of Length of Exposed length Length cf body.
pronotum.
pronotum.
tegmen.
of wing.
of forceps.
Type .6.6 L2 L25 2.
1.5 2.8 Paralype...Q.b L2 L25 2.1 1.4 2.7 ?
Allotype 6.1 1.1 1.2 2.1 1.3 1.9 General coloration (dried after immersion in alcohol) shining chestnut brown, with distal portion of abdomen and, in the type, the tegmina paler.
Wings with exposed surface warm buff, with apex and sutural margin chestnut brown.
Femora, except brief distal portion, chestnut brown.
Tibiae, tarsi and brief distal portion of femora paler, suffused warm buff.
Specimens Examined.
— 3; 2 males and 1 female.
Ascension Island, South Atlantic, 2d^, 19, type, allotype, paratype^ [M. C. Z. and Hebard Cln.].
Prolabia arachidis (Yersin).
1860.
Forficula arachidis Yersin, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France, (3), VIII, p. 509, PI.
X, figs.
33 to 35.
[ [Adventive at] Marseilles, France.]
Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 11, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; on open savannah).
Id", [A. M.iN.
H.].
This specimen agrees fully with the North American series before us of this unpleasant domiciliary insect.
Sphingolabis hawaiensis Bormans.
1882.
F[orficvIa] hawaiensis Bormans, Ann.
Mus.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova,.
XVIII, p. 341.
[Different Hawaiian Islands.]
Sapit, Lombok, Lesser Sunda Islands, 2000 meters, IV, 1896, (for Fruhstorfer), Ic?, [Hebard Cln.].
The species has already been recorded from Lombok, by Bormans.
SPARATTIN^.
Sparatta pygidiata Kirby.
1896.
Sparatta pygidiata Kirby, Jour.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond., Zool., XXV, p. 527, PI.
XX, figs.
10 and 10a.
[Rio [de Janeiro, Brazil].]
Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 12, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; taken sifting), 3 9, [A. M. N. H. and Hebard Cln.].
We refer these specimens to pygidiata with doubt.
We feel that the genus Sparatta will be found to include a great number of yet undescribed species.
The synonymy and association of species under Sparatta, Parasparatta and Prosparatta, given by Burr in the Genera Insectorum, shows a number of serious errors.
The specimens before us do not agree with Brazilian material in the Academy collection of S. clarkii and S. semirufa.
Males of the present insect may show it to be not pygidiata, but an undescribed species.
The females have head and pronotum dark, moderately shining; the tegmina and wings shining black, with a metallic, purplish sheen.
The pygidium is deelivent proximad, the ventral portion produced, quadrate, with distal margin truncate, but showing three small, triangular productions.
The forceps have a decided lamellate production of the internal margin which ceases abruptly at the base of the strongly incurved apices, this margin armed with a blunt median tooth and with minute denticulations in proximal half, these more numerous proximad.
The caudal tibiae are armed disto-ventrad with two minute, but stout, spines.
The caudal metatarsus is shorter than the third tarsal joint, and has the ventral surface fringed internally with a row of lamellate plates (agglutenated hairs) and externally with a row of minute, but stout, spines.
Length of body, 8.2 to 8.5; of forceps 2.2 to 2.3 mm.
FORFICULID^.
ANECHURIXiE.
Allodahlia macropyga (West wood).
1839.
Forficula macro-pyga Westwood, Rovle'.s Illustr.
Himalaya, Intr., p. 53, PL IX, fig.
12.
[ [Himalaya Mountains.]
1 Chandkhira, Sylhet, Assam.
1 adult (forceps missing), [Hebard Cln.].
This specimen shows a striking color variation, with exposed surfaces of wings pale buff}'.
This condition has also been found in A. scabriuscula .
FORFICULIX.E.
Doru luteipenne (Serville).
1839.
Foriicida luteipennis Serville, Hist.
Xat.
Ins., Orth., p. 46.
[9, Brazil.]
Rio Caiarv-Uaupes, Amazonas, Brazil, 1906, (H. Schmidt), ItJ' [A. M. X": H.].
Chanchamayo, Peru, 1 9 , [A. X. S. P.].
Doru lineare (Eschscholtz).
1822.
Forficula linearis Eschscholtz, Entomogr., p. 81.
[Santa Catharina, Brazil.]
Chanchamayo, Peru, 1 9 , [A. X. S. P.].
Forficula auricularia Linnseus.
1758.
[Forficula] auricularia Linnseus, Sysl.
Nat., Ed.
X, I, p. 423.
[Europe.]
Numandorp, South Holland, Xetherlands, VII, 16, 1908, (M. Hebard; colony under board), Sd", 19.
5 juv., [Hebard Cln.].
La Guerche, Cher.
France, VIII, 17, 1906, (M. Hebard; under leaves and moss in forest), 1 juv.
[Hebard Cln.].
Gerardmer.
Vosges, France, VIII, 17, 1906, (M. Hebard), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.].
ANCISTROGASTRIN.E.
LITOCOSMIA" new genus.
This genus agrees with Osteulcus alone, of the genera of the present subfamily, in the male penultimate ventral abdominal segment lacking projecting processes, but differs from that genus in the form of this segment, the tegmina which are not keeled beyond the shoulders and in having the seventh dorsal abdominal segment alone specialized laterad, not considering the stink glands.-^ The abdomen, with greatest width mesad, gives a superficial resemblance to Mixocosmia.
The evenly and not strongly arcuate forceps suggest the type found in some species of Paracosmia, but are more simple.
Genotype.
— Litocosmia roraimce new species.
Generic Characters.
— Head feebly depressed meso-caudad.
First antennal joint equal to coml^ined length of second, third and fourth joints; fourth joint distinctly longer than third.
Pronotum subquadrate; cephalic margin transverse, with lateral angles rather sharply rectangulate, caudal margin convex.
Tegmina keeled only at shoulders.
Abdomen gradually widening to seventh dorsal segment, thence gradually narrowing; stink glands of third segment well developed, of fourth segment strongly developed, tubular; seventh segment with a dorso-lateral oblique, rounded ridge on each side, ascending cephalad; other segments simple.
Pygidium minute, simple.
Forceps not complex in structure.
Penultimate ventral abdominal segment rectangular, disto-lateral angles broadly rounded, distal margin transverse.
Limbselongate and slender; caudal metatarsus slightly longer than third tarsal joint, its ventral surface and that of second tarsal joint, hairy.
We believe the correct linear position of this genus to be after Sarakas and before Mixocosmia, then Paracosmia.
Litocosmia roraimae new species.
P!.
XVI, figs.
10, 11.
Type: cf ; Ireng River to Roraima, Brazil.
August 18, 1911.
(Crampton) [American Museum of Natural History.]
Size medium, form elongate and slender, with greatest abdominal ^^ From /i~'i = pimple.
'-' We are not as certain as we would like to be that the species, or at least the genotype, of Burr's genus Sarakas, will not also be found to have a simple male penultimate ventral abdominal segment.
This segment is not described in the original descriptions.
The genus is assigned to the opposite categor.v in Bui-r's key in the Genera Inseclorum, but we have already found this same key to be elsewhere misleading.
From the description of the genotype, Sarakas devians (Dohrn), it appears that Litocosmia is at least separable by the dilated abdomen^ with lateral portions of sixth and eighth dorsal segments unspecialized, and the much more simple type of forceps.
width mesad.
Head'-^ with paired impressions dorso-mesad of antennal sockets weakly indicated; eyes longer than cheeks.
Pronotum narrower than head, with a weak medio-longitudinal sulcus; prozona moderately convex, lateral portions of metazona strongly ascendent to lateral margins, caudal portion feebly convex; lateral margins parallel.
Tegmina and wings fully developed.
Dorsal surface of abdomen convex; ultimate segment with sides straight and very feebly convergent caudad, surface weakly convex, except mesodistad where it is very feebly concave and distad on each side above the base of the forceps is found a more convex area, at each of which areas the distal margin is weakly convex.
Pygidium declivent, longer than broad, rectangulato-oval.
Forceps elongate and slender; ■shaft evenly and not strongly curved, moderately flattened cylindrical, stout proximad with a heavy truncate tooth, thence narrow in proximal third to a sharp medio-internal tooth, this portion with a row of minute, well spaced projections, thence the shaft is unarmed and of equal width to the slight internal swelling near the apex, from which point it tapers rapidly and curves more decidedly to the acute apex.^^ Length of body 10.2, of pronotum 1.6, of tegmen 3.6, of exposed portion of Aving 1.8, of forceps 4.4; width of pronotum 1.6, greatest width of abdomen 2.7, of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment 2.1 mm.
Coloration of head, prozona and dorsal surface of abdomen tawny.
Metazona, tegmina, exposed portion of wings, limbs and underparts ochraceous tawny.
Forceps dull chestnut.
The type of this interesting species is unique.
Osteulcus kervillei (Burr).
1905.
Ancistrogaster kervillei Burr, Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., (7), XVI, p. 490.
[Region of Merida, Venezuela.]
jMerida, Venezuela, 1 c?, [Hebard Cln.].
This topotype agrees in every way with Burr's original description, €xcept in having the tegmina not carinate and in being somewhat larger than the maximum in the type series.
There is no room for doubt that the present insect represents this species.
In consequence, the characterization of the tegmina as keeled and Burr's figure,'^ showing this condition strikingly developed, are either incorrect ^^ The features given in the generic diagnosis are not repeated in this description.
^'^ The form of the distal portion resembles a weakly curved claw.
This general type is probably characteristic of all tiie species properly referable to the Ancistrogastrinse.
-''Genera Insedorum, Fasc.
122, Dermaptera, PI.
VII, fig.
18, (1911).
or great variation occurs in the species in this usually constant feature.
The present specimen has the tegminal shoulders rather sharply rounded, but a lateral keel is subobsolete and the tegmina should best be termed not keeled.
As noted above, the genus agrees with Litocosmia, alone of the genera of the Ancistrogastrinse, in having a simple penultimate ventral abdominal segment in the male, but in the specialization of the dorsal abdominal segments shows much closer affinity to the Ancistrogaster type, being nearest Praos in this respect, before which genus, in linear arrangement, we would place Osteidcus.
The forceps are distinctive and remarkable.
OPISTHOCOSMIINiE.
Kleter aterrimus (Bormans).
1883.
A[ncistrogaster] aierrimus Bormans, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg., XXVII, p. 83, PI.
Ill, fig.
18.
[Ecuador.]
Rio Charape, Peru, IX, 14, 1911, (C. H. T. Townsend), Id", [U. S. N. M.j.
This specimen is very slightly larger than the type, with the description of which it agrees throughout.
The figure is exceedingly crude.
Except for the much broader last dorsal abdominal segment, a general superficial resemblance to the species of Skalistes is shown.
Eparchus burri (Bormans).
1903.
Opisthocosmia burri Bormans, in Burr, Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., (7), XI, p. 267.
[Lompa Battau, South Celebes, at 3000 meters.]
Bua-Kraeng, South Celebes, 5000 meters, II, 1896, (for H. Fruhstorfer), Icf , [Hebard Chi.].
The original description is very brief; valuable comparisons are later made by Burr.-' Explanation of Plate XVI.
Fig.
1.
— Forcipula despinosa new species.
d', type.
Northern India.
Dorsal outhne.
(X 2.16).
Fig.
2.
— Pseudisolabis elegans new species, d, type.
Kulu, Kangra, India.
Dorsal outline.
(X 4).
Fig.
3.
— Pseudisolabis elegans new species.
9 , allotype.
Kuki, Kangra, India.
Dorsal outhne of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment and forceps.
(X 10).
Fig.
4.
— Labia barberi new species, cf , type.
Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala.
Dorsal outhne.
(X 14).
Fig.
5.
— Labia nodifer new species, cf , type.
Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala.
Dorsal outhne.
(X 13).
Fig.
6.
— Labia arcuata Scudder.
cf , type.
Vassouras, ISIinas Geraes, Brazil.
Dorsal view of distal dorsal abdominal segments and forceps.
(X 7.7).
^^ Fauna British India, Dermapt., p. 194, (1910).
Fig.
7.
— Labia rotundata Scudder.
9 , type.
Mexico.
Dorsal outline of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment, pygidium and forceps.^' (X 8).
Fig.
8.
— Prolabia ascensionis new species.
6^, type.
Ascension Island, South Atlantic.
Dorsal outline.
(X 8).
Fig.
9.
— Prolabia ascensionis new species.
9 , allotype.
Ascension Island, South Atlantic.
Dorsal outline of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment, pygidium and forceps.
(X 7.4).
Fig.
10.— Litocosmia roraimce new species, cf, type.
Ireng River to Roraima, Brazil.
Dorsal outline.
(X 4.5).
Fig.
11.
— Litocosmia roraimce new species, cf, type.
Ireng River to Roraima, Brazil.
Ventral outline of: — A. Penultimate Ventral Abdominal Segment.
B.
Portions of Ultimate Dorsal Abdominal vSegment folded over Subgenital Plate.
C. One of the halves of the cleft Subgenital Plate.
Mesad is the ventral surface of the pygidium, between the bases of the forceps.
2' This figure is given to show the widely separated type of forceps, found also in both nodiftr and arcuata.
NOTES ON MEXICAN MELANOPLI.
(Orthoptera; Acrididse.)
BY MORGAN HEBARD.
In preparing a Revision of the Melanopli of North America, north of IMexico, it has been found necessary to consider all of the Mexican material at hand.
We have before us the greater portion of the important material, including almost all the types, described by Scudder in his Revision of the Orthopteran Group Melanopli and by Bruner in the Biologia CentraliAmericana; the papers here referred to being the most important single contributions to the knowledge of this group for Mexico.
The Philadelphia collections contain other types and important series previously recorded from ^Mexico.
In addition, we have fortunately been able to assemble nearly all the recently collected Mexican Melanopli and take the present opportunity to record the same.
It is clear that great numbers of species of the Melanopli, found in the southern portions of the United States, will be found in northern JNIexico, but as yet have not been taken in that country.
In fact, the Melanopli assembled show that generally casual collecting has been done, a very few localities fairly well investigated, wdiile vast areas still remain virtually unknown for this group.
The last condition is particularly true for all the regions of Mexico adjacent to the United States.
We would hesitate to report on collections so evidently incomplete were it not necessary to point out the considerable synonymy proven by the series at hand.
Five genera and ten species are shown to be synonymic in the present paper.
A single new species is described.
Four hundred and thirty-nine specimens, representing fourteen genera and thirtysix species, are here considered.
The superficial character of Scudder 's Revision is best shown by the array of errors in his treatment of the species of the United States.
The errors applicable to Mexican material, for which he erected two generic and six specific synonyms, did not come as a surprise after the other portions of his work had been studied.^ 1 The new genera and species, described by Scudder in his Revision (December 28, 1897), all actuallj^ date from the key which was separately printed in advance, in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XXXVI, pp.
5 to 35, (April 5, 1897).
18 We wish to express our cordial thanks to the curators of the collections of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, United States National Museum, American Museum of Natural History, and Field Museum of Natural History for the loan of material.
We are particularly indebted to Dr. Samuel Henshaw, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, for permitting us to have for comparison and study the types from the Scudder Collection, without which we would have been unable to undertake the present work.
Netrosoma fusiforme Scudder.
1897.
Aetrosoma fusiformis Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 17, PI.
II, fig.
2.
[Monclova {nee Montelovez-), Coahuila {nee Chihuahua'), Mexico.]
1908.
Netrosoma fusiforme Brunei-, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 300.
(Same material.)
19i0.
N[etroso7na\ uniformis Kirby, Syn.
Cat.
Orth., Ill, p. 486.
(Lapsus calami.)
Monclova, Coahuila, XI, 23, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic^, 2 9 , [U. S. N. M.].
These strikingly beautiful examples are in no way different from paratypes now before us.
Netrosoma nigropleura Scudder.
1897.
Netrosoma nigropleura Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 18, PL II, fig.
3.
[Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.]
1908.
Netrosoma nigropleurum Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 300.
(Same material.)
Jaral, Coahuila, XI, 1 to 3, 1909, (J. Friesser), 1 9 , [Field Mus.
Nat.
Hist.].
The size contrast between the sexes of the present species is even greater than in N. fusiforme.
The female is also very different from the male type, in the Hebard Collection, in being almost solid rood's brown in general coloration, the two darker bands of the caudal femora being only very faintly indicated dorsad.
As in the male, the caudal tibiae are pompeian red, this weaker externally proximad.
The measurements of this female are as follows; length of body 20.8, length of pronotum 4.7, greatest (caudal) width of pronotum 6.1, length of caudal femur 11.6, width of caudal femur 3.5 mm.
In the male type the length of the caudal femur is 8.8, its width 2.8 mm.
DichroplUS notatUS Bruner.
1908.
Dichroplus notntus Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 301.
[cf , 9 ; Arnula, Guerrero, Mexico, 6000 feet.]
Cuernavaca, Morelos, 1905, (VV.
L. Tower), 1 9, [Tower Cln.].
This specimen is slightly larger than a cotypic female in the Hebard Collection, being 19.7 mm.
in length, and is more richly This error appears repeatedly in Scudder's revision, due to the incorrect entry of Palmer's assorting number 1221 in the book used by Scudder.
^ Scudder in some places gives Chihuahua incorrectly as the State, in other places he is more nearly correct, giving "Cohahuila. "
colored.
In both specimens the greater portion of the caudal femora is deep bluish glaucous.
PEDIES Saussure.
1861.
Pedies Saussure, Rev.
et Mag.
de Zool., (2), XIII, p. 1.57.
1893.
Paradichroplus Brunner,'* Revis.
Syst.
Orth., Ann.
]\Ius.
Genova, XXXIII, p. 145.
Careful study of the literature and study of.
the specimens discussed below, proves to our full satisfaction the above synonymy.
Saussure's description, though very brief, gives nearly all the features of importance.
The efforts of Scudder and Bruner to locate Pedies virescens, the genotype by monotypy, have been decidedly incorrect^ their supposition being that the position of the species was near Dactylotum.
At the time Paradichroplus was described Brunner ignored the genus Pedies.
We would note that, from material before us, three species, mexicanus (Brunner), variabilis (Bruner) and andeamis (Caudell), in addition to the genotype, are referable to Pedies; but that nigrigena Rehn and hrunneri, jusijormis and bipundatus all of Giglio-Tos, assigned originally to Paradichroplus, can not properlj^ be placed in the present genus.
Striking features in the genus Pedies, as given by Saussure, are: the strongly declivent and convex face; the sub-bicarinate frontal costa; the conoid-arcuate apex of the head; the pronotum with strong percurrent median carina cut weakly by the principal transverse sulcus, with distinct percurrent lateral carinse and with caudal margin distinctly emarginate, and male genitalia of the characteristic type found in Dichroplus and allied genera.^ Pedies mexicanus (Brunner).
1861.
Platyphyma mexicanum Brunner, Verh.
k.-k. Zool.-bot.
Gesellsch.
Wien, 1861, p. 224.
[ 9 , Mount Orizaba, ^Mexico, "au pied de la neige.
"l Mount Orizaba, 11500 feet, III, 189.3, (western slope), 2cf , 2 juv.
d', [Hebard Cln.].
An additional dried alcoholic female from the United States National Museum, without exact data, is at hand.
The prosternal spine in this insect is broadly truncate, cuneiform.
** This genus was described without type designation; the type by first subsequent fixation is Platyphyma mexicanus Brunner, selected by Kirbv, Syn.
Cat.
Orth., Ill, p. 492, (1910).
^ Certain of these features are not indicated in the aberrant P. variabilis (Bruner), see p. 254.
Pedies variabilis (Scudder).
1897.
Melanoplus variabilis Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 319, PI.
XXI, fig.
8.
[cf , 9 ; Mexico City and Queretaro, Mexico.].
Ocotlan, Jalisco, 5000 feet, VIII, 29 to IX, 1, 1906, (P. P. Calvert), 1 iuv.
9 , [A. N. S. P.].
Yurecuaro, Michoacan, 5000 feet, IX, 4, 1906, (P. P. Calvert), Icf , [A. N. S P 1 Tlalpam, Distrito Federal, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 21 d^, 6 9, [Hebard Cln.].
This insect, the single type of which is before us, is a distinctly aberrant member of the present genus.
Compared with P. mexicanus it is found to differ in the slender, conical prosternal spine, the weakly obtuse-angulate caudal margin of the pronotum, the distinctly less retreating face, lanceolate and overlapping tegmina and distinctive male genitalia.
The general structure, however, particularly of the head and pronotum, shows definitely a derivation from the stock of P. virescens and mexicanus rather than from any of the types of the genus Melanoplus.^ Cephalotettix pilosus (StS,!).
1878.
P(latyphyma) pilosus St&l, Bih.
till k. Svensk.
Vet.-Akad., Handl., V, No.
9, p. 10.
[cf , 9 ; Mexico.]
1897.
Cephalotettix parvulus Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 31, PL III, fig.
1.
[cf ; Atoyac and Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico.]
1897.
Rliabdoietliz pilosus Scudder, ibid., p. 35.
[Generic assignment.]
1897.
Melanoplus geniculatus Scudder, ibid., p. 239, PL XVI, fig.
3.Mcf, 9 ,' Mexico.]
Careful comparison of Scudder's type of parvulus and his type and allotype of geniculatus with Stal's description of pilosus proves the synonymy given above, Stal's material apparently differing only in being somewhat larger, (length 16 mm.).
That size variation occurs in the species is shown by the two males before us, (length 12.7 and 14 mm.).
The specimens described as geniculatus have lost their natural brilliant coloration from immersion in alcohol.
This explains the differences in Scudder's color descriptions of parvulus and geniculatus.
Haste and carelessness fully explain the glaring errors made by that author.
Unfortunately, his " Revision of the IMelanopli" shows so frequent a succession of such serious errors that these would seem inexplicable, were the author's superficial method of procedure not known.
The black genicular areas of the caudal femora and bases of the * The peculiar percurrent lateral carinse of the pronotum and character of the surface of the lateral lobes are exactly as in P. mexicanus.
^ This figure is incorrect, the subgenital plate and cerci of the specimen figured being exactly as given on plate III, figure 1. caudal tibise are a striking and distinctive feature in the present insect.^ PH^DROTETTIX Scudder.
1897.
PhcEdrotettix Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 22.
1897.
Rhabdotettix Scudder, ibid., p. 32.
1897.
Cyclocercus Scudder, ibid., p. 36.
The genotype of Phcvdrotettix, angustipennis, is inseparable generically from the species of Rhabdotettix, of which palmeri is the genotype.
It is true that yalmeri and dumicola^ agree closely in distinctive features of male genitalic development, while in both the tegmina are ovate.
In the other species of Phcedrotettix the tegmina are linear, but this difference alone is utterly insufficient to warrant generic separation.
The male genitalic development shows widely different features in a number of the species, this being much the greatest in valgus, but in our opinion generic separation is in no case warranted.
A careful comparison of the genotype, Phcedrotettix angustipennis, with accola, genotype of Cyclocercus, shows also that the latter genus must fall in the present synonymy.
The pronotum of accola shows a very slightly heavier median carina than is found in the other species of Phmdrotettix.
This feature is of no generic value, nor are the male genitalic features given by Scudder.
In fact, were the latter given generic significance it would be necessary to separate gracilis and histrigata as one, litus as another, palmeri and dumicola as another and valga as still another genus.
Key to Males of the Species of Phwdrotettix.
10 A. Tegmina very slender, not elongate ovate or ovate.
B. Dorsum of pronotum pale, immaculate.
Distal portion of abdomen not enlarged.
(Fercula absent.
Cerci moderately elongate, slender, tapering to blunt apex.
Supra-anal plate elongate shield-shaped; truncate, obtuse-angulate distad.
Subgenital plate simple, small, scoop-shaped.)
accola (Scudder).
^ Scudder failed to note that the bases of the caudal tibiae were black in the type of his parvidus.
'•' The types, now before us, of Scudder's Pezotettix dumicolus and Rhabdotettix concinnus show the certain synonymy of these names, the former of which has prioritj'.
At the time concinnus was described, Scudder referred dumicola to the genus Melanoplus.
1" This key is based on examination of the type of each species considered and additional males of all except histrigata and litus, which species are known from the unique type and allotj^pe.
BB.
Dorsum of pronotum dark.
Distal portion of abdomen enlarged.
C. Distal portion of abdomen slightly enlarged.
(Fereula present; small, broad, blmit, trigonal.
Cerci moderately elongate, slender, tapering to acute apex.
Supra-anal plate trigono-shield-shaped, with a minute dorsal tubercle proximad on each side.
Subgenital plate simple, small, scoop-shaped) gracilis (Bruner).
CC.
Distal portion of abdomen decidedly enlarged.
D. Fereula absent.
Cerci decidedly elongate, very slender in distal portion but with apex blunt.
Supra-anal plate short, trigono-shield-shaped.
Subgenital plate simple, small, scoop-shaped.
Pronotum with decided dorso-lateral pale lines histrigata (Scudder).
DD.
Fereula represented by weak and broad convexities of the segment.
Cerci and subgenital plate specialized.
Supra-anal plate elongate, shield-shaped.
Pronotum without decided dorso-lateral pale lines.
E. Supra-anal plate elongate shield-shaped, truncate obtuse-angulate distad, with a minute dorsal tubercle proximad on each side.
Cerci moderately elongate, distal portion moderately broad, tapering sharply at extremity to acute ventral apex.
Subgenital plate small, produced in a small median, marginal, blunt tubercle angustipennis Scudder.
EE.
Supra-anal plate elongate shield-shaped, lateral margins cingulate, straight and convergent proximad, convex ancl convergent distad.
Cerci heavy, elongate, with an acute proximal projection on ventral margin," distal portion moderately broad, curving ventrad, with margins at extremity weakly convex to the acute apex.
Subgenital plate large, the free margin above the plane of the supra-anal plate, with a large, very blunt, median, marginal tubercle feebly suggested valga (Scudder).
AA.
Tegmina longer, elongate ovate.
Supra-anal plate simple, broadly shield-shaped.
.Cerci broad.
B. Cerci broad, not bent inward, apex acute and situated dorsad, distal margin strongly oblique.
Fereula minute, bluntly obtuse-angulate projections.
General coloration green, locally washed with red, color pattern not complex.
(Subgenital plate small, simple, with distal portion the more strongly rounded but not tuberculate) litus new species.
BB.
Cerci bent inward at near the middle, apex evenly rounded.
Fereula very broad and extremely narrow plates with distal margin straight.
General coloration brown to green, not washed with red, color pattern complex.
(Pallium conical, produced.)
" This frequently projects downward between the supra-anal and subgenital plates and is in this position concealed.
C. Cerci broad throughout, distal portion narrower but not slender.
Pallium moderately produced.
Subgenital plate with a weakly suggested, blunt tubercle meso-distad at the free margin.
Size averaging smaller and color usually darker palmeri (Scudder).
CC.
Cerci broader, distal portion not as much narrower.
Pallium greatly produced.
Subgenital plate with distal portion evenly rounded.
Size averaging larger and coloration usually paler dumicola (Scudder).
The females are less easily separated.
Those of accola are distinctive in the pale dorsal surface of the pronotum; of arigiistipennis by the small size, immaculate dorsum of pronotum and somewhat maculate caudal femora; those of valga from the female allotype of bistrigata only by their smaller size and less robust form.
The females of litus, palmeri and dumicola have the tegmina much broader than in any of the other species.
The female of litus is readily separated by the distinctive coloration, which is similar to that of the male.
Those of palmeri and dumicola are separable only by the usually different size and coloration as found in the males.^^ The species accola, palmeri and dumicola are found within the United States and will be comprehensively treated in another study; of these palmeri alone is known from Mexico, in which country the type series was taken.
Phaedrotettix gracilis (Bruner).
1908.
Cyclocercus gracilis Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 307.
[c?, Tampico, Tamaulipas, Mexico.]
Tamos, Tamaulipas, XII, 7, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Icf, [Hebard Cln.].
Pueblo Viejo, Vera Cruz, XII, 8, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic^, [U. S. N. M.].
The present species shows nearest relationship to P. bistrigata.
The males differ in the smaller size, lack of very decided dorso-lateral cephalic and pronotal pale lines, only slightly enlarged apex of abdomen, presence of small, bluntly triangular furcula and less elongate but even more slender cerci.
The general coloration would appear to differ only in the decided dorso-lateral cephalic and pronotal pale lines found in the male type of bistrigata; which specimen is, however, in a poor state of color preservation, having been dried after immersion in alcohol.
The male from Tamos shows individual variation in having the dark dorsal and dorso-lateral surfaces of the head and pronotum solid, the ventral portion of the pronotal lateral lobes buffy white " The female of gracilis is unknown.
and the furcula very slightly more produced with apices directed latero-caudad.
Phaedrotettix angustipennis Scudder.
1897.
Phcedrotettix angustipennis Scudder, (in part), Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 22, PL II, fig.
7.
[d", 9 : Mount Alvarez, San Luis Potosi, Mexico; Camacho, Zacatecas {nee Comancho, Durango) Mexico.]
The type series is before us.
The species has never been taken north of Mexico, the Corpus Christi Bay, Texas, material originally included being referable to P. accola.
The much reduced tegmina are frequently absent, on one or both sides, as shown by the series before us.
The caudal femora of this species and of accola differ from those of gracilis, bistrigata and valga in being not solidly colored, showing two broad, but normally very weak, darker suffusions dorsad.
Phaedrotettix valga (Scudder).
1897.
Cyclocercus accola Scudder, (in part), Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 38.
[ 9 , Lerdo, Durango, ^Mexico.]
1897.
Cyclocercus valga Scudder, ibid., p. 39, PI.
Ill, fig.
6.
[cf, Sierra Nola, Tamaulipas, Mexico.]
Victoria, Tamaulipas, I, 14 and 1.5, 1903, (S. N. Rhoads), 2(^, 2 9," [A. N. S. P.]; XII, 10, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 2c?, [U. S. N. M.].
A large series of well preserved material of P. accola from near the type locality, now at hand, enables us to straighten out the past confusion.
All of the material, described by Scudder from Corpus Christi Bay, Texas, as Phcedrotettix angustipennis and Cyclocercus accola, is dried alcoholic and in very poor condition.
Rehn's misidentification was due to Caudell's mistakes in comparison.
Scuclder's figures for the two species are excellent.
Phaedrotettix litus new species.
This species is cUstinctive in its striking green coloration washed with red.
The eyes are appreciably more protuberant than in any Fig.
1.
— Phcedrotettix litus new species.
Lateral view of male.
Type.
(X 3.)
^^ Incorrectly recorded by Rehn as Phcedrotettix angustipennis, in 1904; following Caudell, who compared the material with cotypes of that species.
other species of the genus, while the male cerci are distinctive in form.
The male supra-anal and subgenital plates are much as in P. histrigata.
The tegmina are more elongate but nearly as broad as in P. palmeri and P. dumicola.
Type: cf ; Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico.
(0.
W.
Barrett.)
[Hebard Collection Type No.
436.]
Size and form medium for the group, much as in histrigata.
Surface generally smooth, supplied with microscopic hairs, these particularly numerous on the caudal tibise.
Head with interocular space very narrow, hardly more than half as wide as proximal antennal joint, narrow" sulcus of vertex distinct, vertex not decidedly produced, declivent; fastigio-facial angle rounded, rectangulate; face distinctly and evenly retreating; frontal costa broadly sulcate, a little the widest between antennal sockets, lateral margins more acute there, below becoming less distinct and parallel; supplementary facial carinse distinct, diverging slightly ventrad.
Eyes protuberant, their dorsal surfaces slightly above the plane of the occiput, eyes distinctly longer than gense.
Antennae filiform, slightly over twice as long as pronotum.
Pronotum without lateral carinse; dorsum scarcely expanchng caudad, mecUo-longitudinal carina subobsolete, transverse sulci weak, the two on the prozona weaker and broken mesad, surface microscopically roughened on prozona, minutely punctulate on metazona, caudal margin broadly and feebly concave; lateral lobes of pronotum with cephalic margin feebly concave dorsad, feebly convex ventrad, ventral angles rounded obtuse-angulate, the ventro-caudal angles of greater degree, caudal margin moderately oblique, faintly concave.. Tegmina lateral, elongate ovate, nearly two and one-half times as long as broad; apex bluntly rounded, the convexit}^ strongest ventrocaudad; veins distinct, mainly longitudinal.
Prosternal process well developed, acute conical, not deflected caudad.
Mesosternal space distinctly longer than wide.
Metasternal lobes narrowly separated.
Furcula subobsolete, represented by minute, bluntly obtuse-angulate projections of the segment.
Supraanal plate very broadly shieldshaped, simple.
Cerci rather broad, narrowing gradually in proximal half, then subequal in width to base of distal portion; dorsal margin ^^S2.—Ph(Bdrotettix lit us new , , ,, species.
Lateral outline of cercus.
evenly and weakly concave to acute Type.
(Greatly enlarged.)
260 [July, Fig.
3.
— Phcedrotettix litus new species.
Outline of female tegmen.
Allotype.
(X 3.)
apex, ventral margin nearly straight, weakly undulating to sharply rounded, weakly obtuse-angulate disto-ventral angle, distal margin from this point feebly concave, oblique to the acute and produced disto-dorsal apex.
Subgenital plate small, simple, scoopshaped, the curvature of the surface sharp dorso-distad but with no indication of a tubercle.
Limbs moderately stout.
Caudal tibiae hairy, with numerous (9 and 10) external and (10 and 10) internal spines.
Allotype; 9 ; same data as type.
[Hebard Collection.]
Size much larger than male, form distinctly more robust.
Eyes less protuberant ; vertex more blunt ; interocular space wider, equalling length of proximal antennal joint; frontal costa not sulcate but with minute pits above the antennal sockets, weakly and broadly sulcate below.
Antennae about twice as long as pronotum.
Median carina of dorsum of pronotum stronger, weak but distinct on metazona, caudal margin with broad concavity more distinct.
Ovipositor valves moderately elongate; dorsal valves with dorso-external margins rather strongly toothed for the group and apical tooth almost straight, scarcely curved dorsad.
Measurements {in millimeters.)
Length Length Caudal Length Width Length of of width of of of of body, pronotum.
pronotum.
tegmen.
tegmen.
caudal femur.
cf.
Type 17.
3.9 2.9 3.6 L6 11.1 9.
Allotype 25.8 5.8 5.6 4.9 2.2 15.7 Coloration.
Male.
Dorsal surface of head, pronotum and abdomen, including tegmina, deep olive brown, shading to buffy olive laterad on abdomen.
Face, cephalic and median limbs, ventral surface of sternum and lateral and ventral surfaces of abdomen buffy olive, becoming yellowish on sternum and proximo-ventral portion of abdomen.
Antennae buffy olive, shading to deep olive brown in distal half.
Eyes prout's brown.
Genae buffy olive with a broad but weak brownish postocular band, weakly margined dorsad with buffy.
Lateral lobes of pronotum in dorsal half claret brown, the band broadest caudad, its ventral margin concave; ventral half buffy, washed with claret brown.
Caudal femora ecru olive washed with dragons blood red, this decided on the dorsal and ventral surfaces and proximad on the internal surfaces.
Caudal tibiae lettuce green proximad, becoming oil green; spines black tipped; hairs white.
The female is almost identically colored, the dorsal surface only showing a stronger green suffusion, yellowish oil green on the metazona.
The species is known from a single pair.
Sinaloa behrensii Scudder.
1897.
Sinaloa behrensii Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 31, PI.
Ill, fig.
7.
[d', 9 ; Sinaloa, Mexico.]
The type and allotype, belonging to the Museum of Comparative Zoology, are before us.
The genus shows a general resemblance to Phcedrotettix.
The species resembles P. gracilis in general color pattern and P. accola in pronotal form and contour, but has the tegmina of the broader type found in P. litus, -palmeri and dumicola.
The elongate, slender, parallel male furcula, with a node on the dorsal surface of the subgenital plate on each side of these appendages are distinctive features in the present genus.
The specimens at hand are dried alcoholic but show the following features of coloration.
Dorsal surface of head and pronotum rather pale, postocular dark stripe broad, less, distinct but percurrent on the lateral lobes of the pronotum and continued on the tegmina, suffusing their ventral portions and with proximo-lateral dark areas on male abdomen which decrease in size caudad.
Limbs pale, the genicular areas of the caudal femora suffused, dark brown.
Sinaloa nitida (Scudder).
1897.
Melanoplus nitidus Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 207, PI.
XIV, fig.
2.
(In part.)
[d^, Tepic, Mexico.]
The type and an additional topotypic male, when compared with the male type of Sinaloa behrensii now before us, show the unmistakable consanguinity of these very distinct and little known species.
The extraordinary male genitalia are very similar in the two species, the only noteworthy difference being in the greater distal width of the cerci in the genotype, behrensii.
When compared, we find the male of nitida to be more robust in structure, with pronotum shorter, prozona more convex, with transverse sulci as decided but not cutting the weak median carina, which is weakly convex in longitudinal outline and prozona laterad weakly but distinctly and more evenljt concave in outline.
In the present insect the large shining black spot of the dorsal portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, margined by a narrow buffy convex line above and below, immaculate sides of the metazona and unicolorous tegmina are distinctive features of coloration.
It is further evident that Scudder's Barytettix peninsulce,^"^ known from the unique female before us, is nearer Sinaloa than any other described genus and should be placed in this genus until the male sex is found to determine whether separation is necessary.
The female type of peninsula is more robust, with pronotum proportionately much shorter, than the female allotype of hehrensii.
It differs further in the broader and non-sulcate facial costa, decided transverse sulci of the dorsum of the pronotum which cut the weak median carina,^^ strikingly bicolored tegmina and marking of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, which is of the same general type as found in nitida but l^y no means as solidly, sharply and strikingly defined as in that species.
i PHAULOTETTIX Scudder.
1897.
Phaulotettix Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 29.
1907.
Calotettix Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 309.
Scudder's description is based on an immature specimen, a& demonstrated by the individual now before us.
Without examination of this type Bruner had every reason to believe that his material represented an undescribed genus.
The genotype, by monotypy, is Phaulotettix compressus Scudder.
Phaulotettix compressus Scudder.
1897.
Phaulotettix compressus Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 30, PL II, fig.
11.
[ [juv.]
cf ; Monclova [nee Montelovez), Coahuila, Alexico.J 1904.
Sinaloa brevispinis Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sei.
Phila., 1904, p. 535.
[cf, 9 ; Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico.]
1905.
Calotettix bicoloripes Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 309.
[&, Victoria, TamauUpa"s, Mexico.]
1908.
Calotettix flavopictus Bruner, ibid., p. 310.
[9, Alonclova (nee Montelovez), Coahuila, Mexico.]
1908.
Calotettix brevispinis Bruner, ibid., p. 311.
(Generic assignment.)
1908.
Calotettix obscurus Bruner, ibid., p. 311.
[d", Tampico, [TamauUpas], Mexico.]
Scudder's type is an immature individual in one of the later instars.
We are able to associate it with adults, beyond doubt as to species, from a large series of both adults and young now at hand from the eastern portion of the arid southwestern United States.
All of the material noted in the above synonymy is now before us.
Rehn's synonym is due to Scudder's description of compressus of a 1^ 1897.
Barytettix peninsulce Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 28.
[ 9 , Lower California.]
15 The weak transverse sulci of the prono'tal disk cut the weak median carina in the male type of behreyisii, but do not do so in the female allotype of that species, the association of these specimens as sexes of the same species being unquestionably correct.
This is probably due to individual variation and shows this feature to be of no diagnostic value in that species.
supposedly adult and, in consequence, very distinctive insect.
Bruner's synonymic genus and three synonymic specific names are entirely attributable to Scudder's error and the remarkable color variation found in the species.
The males are either brilliant green, marked with buff, or brown with a greenish_ suffusion, marked with buff; the females are either solid and almost immaculate brown or green, marked with buff.
The caudal tibia and tarsi of the males are entirely jasper red to scarlet red, or this color only in the distal third or two-fifths of the tibige, the remaining proximal portion being light terre verte or porcelain blue.
The females have the caudal tibiae and tarsi usually much less brilliantly colored, entirely reddish, or bluish, changing gradually through purplish to reddish chstad.
The dorso-lateral pale lines of the pronotum are striking only in the green condition of both sexes, these vary in width and are sometimes abruptly terminated at the principal sulcus.
None of these types of coloration have any further significance than the adaptation of the individual to local vcnvironmental conditions.
Monclova, Coahuila, IX, 20, (E. Palmer), 3 9^^ topotypes, (2 brown; 1 green with broad pereurrent pronotal stripes, caudal tibise of all bluish to extremities), [M. C.
Z.
]; XI, 23, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 1 9 , (green, with broken pronotal stripes not extending beyond principal sulcus, caudal tibiae briefly bluish proximad, remaining portions reddish), [U. S. N. M.].
Victoria, Tamaulipas, XII, 10, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 1 9 , (brown, caudal tibiae bluish to extremities), [U. S. N. M.].
Tamos, Tamauhpas, XII, 7, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 19, (brown, caudal tibiae reddish), [U. S. N. M.].
Pueblo Viejo, Vera Cruz, XII, 8, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic?, 19, (both brown, caudal tibiae red), [U. S. N. M.].
.Agroecotettix modestus Bruner.
1908.
Agroecotettix modestus Bruner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 312.
[9, Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.]
Monclova, Coahuila, IX, 20, (E. Palmer), 1 9 , [M. C.
Z.].
CONALC^A Scudder.
1897.
CondcoBa Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 23.
1897.
Barytettix Scudder, ibid., p. 27.
The series now before us, incluchng the single types of all the •described species, prove beyond question the above synonymy, the features given by Scudder to distinguish these genera being fanciful or of no generic value.
The genotype, Conalccea ■miguelitana Scudder, is closely related to ■Conalccea huachucana Rehn, the latter may eventually prove to be a ^^ In addition to juv.
cf t3T3e of Phaulotettix compressus and 9 type of Calotettix _flavopidus geographic race.
To these species C. truncatipennis Scudder is rather closely related.
To crassus Scudder, genotype of Barytettix, Conalccea neomexicana Scudder is very closely related and may indeed prove to be a geographic race of that species.
Baryiettix psninsulce Scudder is a very distinctive insect, best referred at present to the genus Sinaloa.
Conalcsea crassa (Scudder).
1897.
Barytettix crassus Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 28, PL II, fig.
10.
[c?, San Jose del Cabo, Lower California, Mexico.]
1897.
Melanoplus nitidus Scudder, ibid., p. 207.
(In part.)
[ 9 , Cape St. liucas.
Lower California, Mexico.]
Scudder admits the questionable association of the sexes for his M. nitidus.
The specimen from Cape St. Lucas is in every way similar to one of the smaller females from San Jose del Cabo.
A number of topotypic specimens are before us.
The entire series of this species is dried alcoholic.
Aidemona azteca (Saussure).
1861.
Platyphyma azteca Saussure, Rev.
et Mag.
de ZooL, (2), XIII, p. 161.
[cf , Temperate Mexico.]
Mazatlan, Sinaloa, Icf, (elongate), [A. M. N. H.].
Tepic, Tepic, 3 juv., [Hebard Cln.].
Guadalajara, Jalisco, (D. L. Crawford), 3cf , (elongate), [A. N. S. P.].
Amecameca, Mexico, I, .5, 1899, VII, 11, 1898, 2d', 19, (Icf, 9 elongate),.
[Hebard Cln.].
Eslava, Distrito Federal, 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.].
Cuernavaca, Morelos, VI, (Barrett; Smith), Icf, 29, [Hebard Cln.].
Matamoros, Morelos, VIII, 11, 1903, (W. L. Tower), 1 9 , [Tower Cln.j.
Rio Cocula, Guerrero, XII, 1898, (O. W. Barrett), Id, 29, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Tepetlapa, Guerrero, 3000 feet, X, (H. H. Smith), 2d, 19, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Dos Arroyos, Guerrero, 1000 feet, IX, (H. H. Smith), Id, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Mescala, Guerrero, (H. H. Smith), 19, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Amula, Guerrero, 6000 feet, VIII, (H. H. Smith), Id, 19, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Venta de Peregrino, Guerrero, (H. H. Smith), 1 9 , (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Chilpancingo, Guerrero, 4600 feet, VI, (H. H. Smith), Sd, -4 9, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Omilteme, Guerrero, 8000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), Id', (short), [Hebard Cln.].
Acapulco, Guerrero, IX, (H. H. Smith), \d, 19, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
, Xucumanatlan, Guerrero, 7000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), 5d, (3 elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Presidio, Vera Cruz, (Forrer), 1 9, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.].
Jalapa, Vera Cruz, VI, 1, 1894, So', 3 9 , 1 juv., [Hebard Cln.].
Xico, Vera Cruz, Id, [Hebard Cln.].
Medellin, Vera Cruz, X, 1895, 4cr, 4 9 , 1 juv., [Hebard Cln.].
Atoyac, Vera Cruz, V, XI and XII, (Smith; Bruner), 2cf , 2 9 , 2 juv., [Hebard Cln.].
Cordoba, Vera Cruz, 1 9 ■ [Hebard Cln.].
San Rafael, Vera Cruz, III and IV, (C. H. T. Townsend), 47 d^, 14 9 , [Hebard Cln.l.
Teapa, Tabasco, IIL (H. H. Smith), So', 49 , [Hebard Cln.].
Frontera, Tabasco, I, (H. H. Smith), Id', [Hebard Cln.].
Merida, Yucatan, (Gavnner), 2d, 19, [Hebard Cln.].
Chichen Itza, Yucatan, (E. Thompson), 6d, Q9 , [Field Mus.
Nat.
Hist.].
Valladolid, Yucatan, (Gaumer), 5cf, 29, [Hebard Cln.].
Campylacantha similis Scuddcr.
1S97.
Cninpylacanlha similis Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 52, PL IV, fig.
5.
[cT, 9; Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.]
Monclova, Coahuila, XI, 22, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic^, [U. S. N. M.].
Lerdo, Durango, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), Id,'' [Hebard Cln.].
Ttie five known forms of this genus all show rather close affinity.
Nearest approach to the present insect is shown by C. lamprotata Rehn and Hebard.
Compared with that insect, similis is found to be more robust, with coloration deeper and less brilliant.
The males of Campylacantha, like those of Hesperotettix, differ from the majority of the species of the Melanopli in having the genitalia very much alike in all of the species belonging to the genus.
The male from Monclova has the tegmina reaching the apex of the supra-anal plate; in the Lerdo males the tegmina are shorter, about half as long as the abdomen.
Hesperotettix meridionalis Scudder.
1897.
Hesperoiettix meridionalis Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 59, PL lY, fig.
9.
[d , 9 '• Guanajuato, Guanajuato, and Sierra Nola, Tamaulipas, Mexico.]
Durango, Durango, (O. W. Barrett), Id , [Hebard Cln.].
Guadalajara, Jalisco, VI and VII, 1903, (J. F. McClendon), 19, [A. M. N. H.].
This insect is the optimum development of the forms of the Viridis Group.
The intensified coloration, particularly of the black marldngs, combined with its heavier build, gives the species a distinctive facies when compared with its nearest ally, H. viridis.
The male from Durango is less brilliantly colored and much smaller than the type, now before us.
The female specimen of H. pratensis labelled "Orizaba, Mexico" in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner, recorded both by Scudder and Bruner, is in our opinion probably incorrectly labelled.
We can find no material of H. speciosus from northern Chihuahua as recorded by Bruner and do not believe the species occurs in that region.
Melanoplus scitulus Scudder.
1897.
Melanoplus scitulus Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 249, PI.
XVI, fig.
10.
[d, 9 ; Mount Alvarez, San Luis Potosi, Mexico.]
Sierra de San Miguelito, San Luis Potosi, (E. Palmer), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. "
In addition to the typical series in the Hebard Collection.
•266 [July, This specimen agrees fully in all diagnostic features with the type and paratype before us.
It is slightly smaller than the female allotype and the coloration is less intense, the marginal fields of the short almost circular tegmina being feebly darkened and only in their proximal portion, the ventral surface of the caudal femora showing very faintly an orange tinge and the caudal tibiae being a much less intense glaucous.
The broad prosternal spine, with cephalic face weakly concave and distal margin broadly convex-truncate, is a striking feature in the present insect.
Though different in this respect and in male genitalic features as well from M. reflexus, affinity to that species is clearly indicated in the head, pronotum, form of tegmina and general type of coloration.
Melanoplus desultorius insignis new subspecies.
This handsome insect is clearly the optimum development of the species desultorius Rehn, showing sufficient differentiation to warrant its recognition as a geographic race.
From typical desultorius the present insect differs in the larger size, richer greens of the body and red of the antennae, more uniform coloration of the external faces of the caudal femora and particularly in the more ample, conspicuously Fig.
4.
— Melanoplus desultorius insignis new subspecies.
Type.
(X 3.)
Lateral view of male.
overlapping broad-ovate tegmina, which have their caudal margins truncate and showing weak concavity at the apex of the humeral trunk.
Of the species of the Aridus Group, tristis Bruner shows the condition developed under the most limiting environment, while desultorius represents a more favored development than aridus Scudder, to which very close affinity is shoAvn.
The male genitalia in all of these species are of a closely similar type antl do not afford the striking differential features usually found in the species of the genus Melanoplus.
Type: cf ; Copete Mine, thirty miles east of Carbo, Sonora, Mexico.
(F. C.
Nicholas.)
[American Museum of Natural History.]
Size largest of the forms of the Aridus Group; form moderately robust, distinctly heavier than in typical desultorius.
Interocular space slightly narrower than first antennal joint.
Vertex and frontal costa as in aridus and desultorius.
Eyes distinctly longer than infra-ocular portion of gense.
Pronotum much as in desidtorius; disk gently arched transversely and longitudinally, the lateral margins rounded; median carina distinct on cephalic half of prozona and on metazona, obsolete on caudal half of prozona; transverse sulci well developed, the first failing by a very brief space to break the median carina, the other two complete, cutting the mecUan line; caudal margin of pronotum rotundato-obtuse-angulate.
Prosternal spine moderately elongate, rounding sharply distad to the acute apex.
Interspace between mesosternal lobes slightly more than twice as long as least width; metasternal lobes contiguous.
Tegmina broad ovate, decidedly overlapping, with caudal margin truncate and showing a broad but weak concavity toward the apex of the humeral trunk.
The small, slightly divergent furcula, triangular and but little specialized supra-anal plate and elongate, very slender, moderately incurved cerci are much as in desultorius.
The subgenital plate' is broader than in that species, much broader than in aridus, with distal margin Ijroadly rounded.
Other features are found to be as described for desidtorius.^^ Allotype: 9 ; same data as type.
[American Museum of Natural History.]
Agrees with male except in the following features.
Size much larger, form more robust.
Interocular space slightly wider than first antennal joint.
Pronotum with median carina percurrent, strongest on metazona, similarly cut by the transverse sulci.
Interspace between mesosternal lobes with width contained in length Fig.
5.— Melanoplus desultorius about one and one-half times, that i^'T'^' ^;^.
subspecies. '
(Jutline 01 lemale tegmen.
between metasternal lobes very narrow.
Allotype.
(X 3.)
18 By Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Fhila., 1907, p. 51, (1907).
19 Tegmina proportionately even broader than in male, with truncation of distal margin more noticeable.
Ovipositor moderately stout, distal tooth of dorsal valves weakly curved.
Measurements {in millimeters).
Length Length Length Width Length Width , of of of of of caudal of caudal body, pronotum.
tegmen.
tegmen.
femur.
femur.
cf.
Type 22.7 5.7 4.6 ,3.
13.65 3.65 9.
Allotype 3L8 7.
6.2 4.
18.4 4.6 Coloration.
The color pattern is shown by the figure.
General coloration dark zinc green and antimony yellow.
Head with vertex antimony yellow with a medio-longitudinal band of liottle green, eyes kaiser brown, antennae brilliant coral red, other portions of head yellowish, heavily obscured with dull greenish and with a postocular band of dark zinc green.
Pronotum with pale markings antimony yellow, darker markings dark zinc green, those of the dorsum with a brownish suffusion and the darkest areas of the lateral lobes greenish black.
In the female the dorsal band is solidly of this color.
Tegmina olive brown, in the female shading proximad to clove brown.
Abdomen and underparts yellowish.
Cephalic and median limbs yellowish washed with green.
Caudal femora with dorsal surface bright antimony yellow, with two broad bands of dark zinc green; internal surface antimony yellow; external surface dark zinc green shading into antimony yellow ventrad, leaving the ventral portion rather broadly this color, broadest proximad; genicular areas black with lobes antimony yellow washed with green.
Caudal tibise gobelin blue; spines black except at their immediate bases.
The pair is unique.
Melanoplus discolor (Soudder).
1897.
Pezotettix discolor Scudder, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XX, p. 81.
[cf, 9 ; Dallas, Texas.]
1897.
Melanoplus discolor Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 149, PL X, fig.
7.
(Same series.)
1897.
Melanoplus inornatus Scudder, ibid., p. 254, PL XVII, fig.
3.
[d^, 9 ; unknown locality; Monclova (nee Montelovez), Coahuila, Mexico.]
As the described male of M. inornatus had been destroyed, a female in the Museum of Comparative Zoology from Monclova has been selected as type.
The above synonymy is evident when comparison of this specimen is made with cotypes of discolor and a considerable series of that species now at hand.
The species shows very unusual variation in females having the mesosternal space varying individually from subquadrate to distinctly longer than broad.
Variation in the male cerci is also founds but no approach is shown in the series before us to Scudder's figure for inornatus, showing a mesially constricted condition.
The male without data, described as inornatus, may have represented a different species from the female.
As the single type has been selected, a female, this would have no effect on the synonymy indicated above.
elanoplus thomasi Scudder.
1897.
Mclaiioplus thomasi Scudder, Pioc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 368, PI.
XXV, fig.
1.
[cf, Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.]
Durango, Durango, (O. W. Barrett), IcT, [Hebard Cln.
]; XI, 27, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 2c^, 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.].
Escuinapa, Sinaloa, (J. H. Batty), 1 9 , [A. M. X. H.].
The pale lateral pronotal lines are wider in the Escuinapa example than in the others of this large and handsome insect.
Melanoplus diiFerentialis (Thomas).
1871.
Caloplenus differentialis Thomas, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1871, p. 149.
[cf , 9 ; Jackson County, Illinois.]
Guanajuato, Guanajuato, (A. Duges), Icf , [U. S. N. M.]; XII, 11, 1898, 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.].
Vera Cruz, Vera Cruz, (T. Heyde), 2c?, [Hebard Cln.].
Medellin, Vera Cruz, IX, 1895, 2d^, 59 , [Hebard Cln.].
San Rafael, Vera Cruz, (C. H. T. Townsend), 2d^, [Hebard Cln.].
Melanoplus corpulentus Scudder.
1897.
Melanoplus corpulentus Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 313, PI.
XX, fig.
10.
[d", 9 : Tlalpam, Distrito Federal; San Luis Potosi and Sierra de San Miguelito, San Luis Potosi; Zacatecas, Zacatecas, and Sonora, Mexico: Silver City, New Mexico.]
Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, IX, 1902, (W. E. Hughes), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
Eslava, Distrito Federal, IX, 1898, (O. W. Barrett), Ic?, [Hebard Cln.].
Tacubaya, Distrito Federal, IX, 19 , [A. N. S. P.].
Cuernavaca, Morelos, I, 4, 1899 and II, 1898, (O. W. Barrett), Ic?, 19 [Hebard Cln.].
Melanoplus regalis (Dodge).
1876.
Caloplenus regalis Dodge, Can.
Ent., VIII, p. 11.
[Glencoe, Nebraska.]
1902.
/Eolopliis crassus Scudder and Cockerell, Proc.
Davenport Acad.
Nat.
Sci., IX, p. 42.
(In part.)
[ 9 , San Luis Potosi, Mexico.]
Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, IX, 1902, (W. E. Hughes), Id", [A. N. S. P.].
San Luis Potosi, X, (from E. Palmer; G. Banoeta), 19 , cotype of /Eoloplus crassus Scudder and Cockerell, [M. C.
Z.].
Guadalajara, Jalisco, IX, 18, 1903, (J. F. McClendon), Id, [A. N. S. P.].
The present insect has not been previously recorded from Mexico as regalis.
Marked variation is shown by the material at hand.
The male from Guadalajara is very small and brilliantly colored, with bright greens and yellows on head, pronotum and dorsal surfaces of ca^xdal femora and brilliant nopal red on the ventral and internal faces of the caudal femora, while the caudal tibise are deep glaucous.
The other specimens are larger, much less l^rilliantly colored and show only traces of greenish on head and pronotum.
This insect is extremely close to M. ■picturatus Bruner, the latter apparently differing only in the more robust form, decidedly larger average size and constant brilliant coloration, in which the prozona is normally conspicuously washed with pink, as are frequently the outer surfaces of the caudal femora.
Melanoplus femur-rubrum femur-rubrum DeGeer.
1773.
Acrydium femur-rubrum DeGeer, Mem.
I'Hist.
Ins., Ill, p. 498, PI.
XLII, fig.
5.^ [ [ 9 ], Pennsylvania.]
Piedras Negras, Coahuila, 19 , [U. S. N. M.].
Cuidad, Durango, 8100 feet, (Forrer), 29 , [Hebard Cln.].
Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 19 , [Hebard Cln.j.
Guanajuato, Guanajuato, (A. Duges), lo^, [U. S. N. M.].
Guadalajara, Jalisco, VIII, 3, (J. F. McClendon), 1 9 ; (D. L. Crawford), 1 9 , [both A. N. S. P.].
Omilteme, Guerrero, 8000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.].
Merida, Yucatan, (Gaumer), 3 9 , [Hebard Cln.].
Chichen Itza, Yucatan, (E. Thompson), Ic?, [Field Mus.
Nat.
Hist.].
It is of interest to note that though the species over the greater portion of its distribution has the caudal tibise red, all of the present series, excepting those from Ciudad, Guanajuato and Omilteme, have the caudal tibise glaucous.
Decided size and color, but no structural, variation is shown by this material.
Melanoplus lakinus (Scudder).
1879.
PezoteUix lakinus Scudder, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XX, p. 79.
[cf, 9 ; Lakin and Pueblo, Colorado.]
1897.
Melanoplus viarculentus Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 139, PI.
X, fig.
1.
[cf , 9 ; Monclova (nee Montelovez), Coahuila; Sierra Nola, Tamaulipas; Sierra de San Miguelito, San Luis Potosi and Bledos, San Luis Potosi; Zacatecas, and Aguas Calientes — all Mexico.]
1897.
Melanoplus lakinus Scudder, ibid., p. 141, PL X, fig.
2.
[Nebraska, Colorado, Kansas and New Mexico records.]
1897.
Melanoplus sonorce Scudder, ibid., p. 143, PI.
X, fig.
3.
[cf, 9, Sonora, Mexico.]
The synonymy of marculentus is clearly proven by comparison of the different large series before us with the single type of lakinus^^ and of marculentus}'^ An optimum condition, very robust in structure, is the basis for this name; the mesosternal differences noted by Scudder are wholly due to slight individual variation.
The typical series of sonorce is lost; the material clearly representing dried alcoholic specimens of lakinus, in which the caudal tibise have lost their glaucous coloration, becoming yellowish brown.-^ Material similarly badly preserved is before us.
"Here selected: c?
; Lakin, Kansas, September, 1; S. H. Scudder; Museum of Comparative Zoology.
20 Selected by Rehn and Hebard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1912, p. 78, (1912).
21 See Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1907, p. 51, (1907).
Scudder, in his Revision, has frequently erred in studying such material, the effect of alcohol upon tissue and coloration being apparently ignored.
Copete Mines, 30 miles east of Carbo, Sonora, (F. C. Nicholas), Id^, [A. M. N. H.].
Escuinapa, Sinaloa, (J. H. Batty), 1 9, [A. AI.
X. H.].
San Jose del Cabo, LoweiCalifornia, 5 9 , [California Acad.
Sci.].
Casas Grande, Chihuahua, IX, 1902, (W. E. Hughes), 1 9 , [A. X. S. P.].
Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, (C. H. T. Townsend), Ic?, 1 9," (bothmacropterous), [Hebard Cln.].
Monclova, Coahuila, (E. Palmer), 3 9, (1 macropterous), [M. C.
Z.].
Torreon, Coahuila, X, 30, 1909, (J. Friesser), Id^, 19, (9 macropterous), [Field AIus.
Xat.
Hist.].
TlahuaHlo, Durango, XII, 6, 1905, (A. W. Morrill), 19, [U. S. X. M.].
Lerdo, Durango, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 2 9, [Hebard Cln.].
Durango, Durango, XI, 27, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 56", 8 9, [U. S. X. M.].
Camacho, Zacatecas, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
Zacatecas, Zacatecas, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 5cf, 8 9, including paratypes of M. marculentus,-^' [Hebard Cln.
and A. N. S. P.].
Aguascahentes, Aguascalientes, XII, 1, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Id', 6 9, (19 macropterous), [U. S. X. M.]; XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), id, 2 9, [Hebard Cln.
and A. N. S. P.]; XII, 9, 1898, 4cr, 5 9, {2d, 1 9 macropterous), [Hebard Cln.
and A. X. S. P.].
Guanajuato, Guanaiuato, XII, 11, 1898, 1 9, [Hebard Cln.].
Ocotlan, Jahsco, 5000 feet, VIII, 29 to IX, 1, 1906, (P. P. Calvert), Vd, [A. X. S. P.l.
Specimens from Monclova, Coahuila, and a series including the type from Sierra Nola, Tamaulipas, show by far the optimum development, being exceptionally large and robust.
Decided size variation, irrespective of geographic distribution, is found to occur, this particularly illustrated by the series from Aguascalientes.
Very great color variation is usual ; rare specimens are heavily washed with pink.
Melanoplus mexicanus mexicanus (Saussure).
1861.
Pezotettix mexicana Saussui'e, Rev.
et Mag.
de Zool., (2), XIII, p. 160.
{d , 9 ; Temperate Mexico.]
(Melanoplus atlanis of authors.)
Careful study of the literature and the extensive series at hand gives conclusive evidence that the widespread and abundant species, known universally as M. atlanis, must be called mexicanus, atlanis having been described in 1875.
The name atlanis accordingly is alone retained for the race of mexicanus widely distributed throughout the eastern United States and vicinity.
The species clearly divides into several geographic races, which will be fully discussed in a forthcoming study of the Xorth American MelanopH found North of Mexico.
Durango, Durango, XI, 27, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Id', 19, [U. S. X. M.].
Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), Id', 19,-^ [Hebard Cln.].
22 Incorrectly recorded by Bruner as M. cimeatus, in 1908.
^^ In part incorrectly recorded by Scudder as M. flabellifcr in 1897 and by Bruner as flabellifer in 1908.
2^ Recorded by Scudder as M. atlanis in 1897.
Guadalaiara, Jalisco, (D. L. Crawford), 2cf , 2 9; VIII, 18 to IX, 14, 1903, (J. F. McClendon), 6c?, 2 9 .^^ [all A. N. S. P.].
Queretaro, Queretaro, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), Icf , [Hebard Cln.].
Mexico City, Distrito Federal.
I, 6, 1892 and XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 2cf, 5 9 ,-' [Hebard Cln.
and A. N. S. P.].
Tacubava, Distrito Federal, VIII and IX, (O. W. Barrett), 2c?
,2' 3 9, [Hebird Cln.
and A. N. S. P.].
Tlalpam, Distrito Federal, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), Icf, [Hebard Cln.].
Cuernavaca, Morelos, VI, (O. W. Barrett), 1 9 ,2' [A. N. S. P.].
Atovac, Vera Cruz, XII, (L. Bruner, Icf, [Hebard Cln.].
Patzcuaro, Michoacan, IV, 7, 1899, (S. X. Rhoads), Id","" [A. N. S. P.].
Amula, Guerrero, 6000 feet, VIII, (H. H. Smith), 4c?, 5 9, [Hebard Cln.].
Xucumanatlan, Guerrero, 7000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), 2c?, 2 9, [Hebard Cln.[.
Omilteme, Guerrero, 8000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), 5c?, 3 9, [Hebard Chi.].
In the present series, as given by Saussure for his typical material, individuals show both red and glaucous caudal tibiae, the glaucous type being much more frequently encountered in Mexico than in the United States.
In the present series the following have glaucous caudal tibise: Icf, 19, Durango; Icf, 19, Aguascalientes; dcf, 29, Guadalajara; 4cf , 3 9, Amula; 2cf ,^° 29, Xucumanatlan, and 3cf, Omilteme.
The ventral surfaces of the caudal femora are in all very red, as described by Saussure.
Melanoplus palmeri Soudder.
1897.
Melanoplus palmeri Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 230, PI.
XV, fig.
7.
[c?, 9 ; Fort Wingate, New Mexico, and Fort Whipple, Arizona.]
San Lorenzo, Chihuahua, (E. Palmer), 1 9 ,^^ (dried alcoholic), [U.
§• N. M.].
Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, IX, 1902, (W. E. Hughes), 2c?, 19, 2 juv., (dried alcoholic), [A. N. S. P.].
Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, (C. H. T, Townsend), 19 , [Hebard Cln.].
Durango, Durango, (E. Palmer), Ic?, [M. C.
Z.
]; XI, 27, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic?, [U. S. N. M.].
Escuinapa, Sinaloa, (J. H. Batty), Ic?, [A. M. N. H.].
Zacatecas, Zacatecas, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 1 9 ,^[Hebard Cln.].
Melanoplus elongatus Scudder.
1897.
Melanoplus elongatus Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 160, PI.
XI, fig.
5.
[c?, 9 ; 'Finney County, Kansas; Las Cruces, New Mexico; Lerdo, Durango, Mexico; Guanajuato, Mexico and Bledos, San Luis Potosi, Mexico.]
Sonora, Ic?, [A. M. N. H.].
ISIonclova, Coahuila, XI, 22, 1909, <F.
C. Bishopp), 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.].
Tampico, Tamaulipas, XII, 1906, (C. A. Hart), Ic?,'' [Hebard Cln.].
The males have the ventral surfaces of the caudal femora engiish red or mars orange.
2* 5c?, 2 9 recorded incorrect^ bj^ Rehn as M. spretis in 1904.
2^ In part recorded by Scudder as M. ailanis in 1897.
2' Ic?
incorrectly recorded by Rehn as M. spretis in 1900.
2' Incorrectly recorded by Rehn as M. arizonce in 1901.
-' Recorded by Rehn as M. atlanis in 1902.
'° Two have the caudal tibiae very pale.
, '1 Incorrectly recorded by Scudder as M. spretus in 1897.
'Incorrectly recorded by Scudder as M. flaheUifer in 1897. ''
Incorrectly recorded bv Bruner as M. flavidus in 1908.
Melanoplus complanatipes Scuddcr.
1897.
Melonoplu.^ complanatipes Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 298, PI.
XIX, fig.
10.
[Cape St. Lucas, Lower California; Sonora, Mexico.]
San Jose del Cabo, Lower California, 13c?
', 14 9, 2 juv., (dried AlcohoUc), [Hebard Cln.
and California Acad.
Sci.].
Melanoplus pictus brownii Caudell.
1902.
Melanoplus brownii Caudell, Can.
Ent., XXXIV, p. 169.
[d^, 9, Yuma, Ai'izona.]
Study of the single types of M. pictus Scudder and M. brownii Caudell and large series of the latter condition before us, offers satisfactory evidence that brownii must be considered a geographic race of pictus.
Full comparisons will be made in a study of North American Melanopli found North of Mexico.
Hermosillo, Sonora, IV, 1897, (A. Koebele), Id", [Hebard Cln.].
Melanoplus cinereus cyanipes Scudder.
1897.
Melanoplus cyanipes Scudder, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XX, p. 295, PI.
XIX, fig.
S. [d', 9 ; Los Angeles, Pasadena and San Diego, California.]
Careful consideration of the types of cinereus Scudder and the single type of cyanipes Scudder and large series of these and other closeh' related conditions, shows conclusively that cyanipes represents a geographic race of cinereus, which species develops still other geographic races over its wide distribution in the western United States.
These will be treated in full in a forthcoming paper on the Melanopli of North America found North of Mexico.
San Quentin, Lower California, V, 1889, (C. D. Haines), Icf, [Hebard Cln.].
Phoetaliotes nebrascensis (Thomas).
1872.
P[ezotettix] nebrascensis Thomas, Prelim.
Rept.
U. S. Geol.
Surv.
^Montana and Terr., V, p. 455.
[ 9 , Nebraska.]
Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, (C. H. T. Townsend), 2c?
', (macropterous), [Hebard Cln.].
Durango, Dm-ango, (E. Palmer), Icf, [M. C.
Z.].
Guanajuato, Guanajuato, (A. Duges), Id^, (macropterous), [U. S. N. M.].
Cordoba, Vera Cruz, IX, 28, Ic^, 1 9 , [Cornell Univ.
Cln.].
We find that four Mexican genera, Philocleon, Perixerus, Poecilotettix and Dactylotum,^'^ show a distinct divergence from the true Melanopli, but insufficiency of material prevents us from determining whether these should be referred to a separate group, the Dactyloti.
The forms all have a broad, blunt vertex, showing some depression, this often transverse, between the eyes; the prozona inflated, rounding 3* There is little doubt but that Poepedetes Saussure is a synonym of Dactylotum Charpentier.
274 [July, broadly laterad and in the majority of species with transverse sulci deep, while the number of outer spines of the caudal tibiae, though individually variable, average in some of the species less than eight.
All of the forms are variously brilliantly colored, but have a distinct general appearance of consanguinity.^^ Until much additional material is secured we feel that notes on the Mexican material of these genera would not be sufficiently complete to warrant pu])lication.
The species of Melanopli which have been correctly recorded from Mexico.
(Material of the names marked with an asterisk is in the Philadelphia collections, two asterisks indicating that the type is in these collections and a dagger that the type has been at hand for examination during the preparation of the present paper.)
1.
Netrosoma fusiforme* 2.
Netrosoma nigropleura** 3.
Dichroplus notatus Bruner* Pedies virescens Saussure Pedies mexicanus (Briumer) * Pedies variabilis (Scudder) ** Cephalotettix jjHosus (Stal)* Phcedrotettix gracilis (Bruner)** PhcedroteUixhislrigata (Scudder) t Phcedrotettix angustipennis Scudder*t Phcedrotettix valga (Scudder) *t Phcedrotettix litus Hebard** Phcedrotettix palmeri (Scudder) *t Sinaloa bchrensii Scudderf Sinaloa nitida (Scudder)** Sinaloa peninsulce (Scudder)** Phaulotettix compressus Scudder *t 18.
Agroecotettix modestus Bruner** 19.
Dasyscirtus olivaceous Bruner** 4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
20.
Conalccea miguelitana Scudder* 2 1 .
Conalccea t runcatipen n is Scudderf 22.
Conalccea crassa (Scudder)** 23.
Aidemona azteca (Saussure) * 24.
Par aidemona mimica Scudder* 25.
Campylacantha similis Scudder** 26.
Hesperotettix meridioncdis Scudder *t 27.
Melanoplus scitulus Scudder *t 28.
Melanoplus meridioncdis^^ Scudder*!
29.
Melanoplus cancri Scudder** 30.
AIela7ioplus desidtorius insignis Hebard* 31.
Melanoplus discolor (Scudder) *t 32.
Melanoplus glaucipes (Scudder)* 33.
Melanoplus bivittatus (Say) * 34.
Melanoplus tho7nasi Scudder** 35.
Melanoplus differenticdis (Thomas) * '^ The genus Philocleon stands off by itself and shows this feature least.
^^ We have been unable to examine the type of M. reflexus Scudder, of which meridionalis may possibly be a synonym.
1917.]
liO 36.
Melanoplus sumichrasti (Saussure) * 37.
Melonoplus corpulentus Scudder* ,38.
Melanoplus regalis (Dodge)* 39.
Melanoplus picturatus Brunei'** 40.
Melanojilusfemur-ruhrum femur-rubrum (de Geer)* 41.
Melanoplus lakinus (Scudder) *t 42.
Melanoplus mexicanus mexicanus (Saussure)* 43.
Melanoplus palmeri Scudder* 44.
Melanoplus elongatus Scudder* 45.
Melanoplus complanatipes Scudder* 46.
Melanoplus pictus hrownii Caudell* 47.
Melanoplus cinereus cyanipes Scudder* 48.
Phcetaliotes nehrascensis (Thomas) * 49.
(Edaleonotus jucundus (Scudder)* We are unable to locate Melanoplus seledus Walker, described from Mexico.
Bruner has incorrectly quoted Pezotettix varicolor Stal, since referred to Paradichroplus then to Chlorus, as having been recorded from Mexico.
Kirby has incorrectly quoted Conalccea neomexicana as having been recorded from Mexico.
Uhler's record of Hesperotettix viridis from Mexico is probably referable to H. meridionalis.
The other incorrect determinations and the sj^nonyms for the Mexican Melanopli have already been discussed in the present paper.
CONCEKNING RAFINESQUE'S PRECIS DES DECOUVERTES SOMIOLOGIQUES.
BY DAVID STARR JORDAN.
In Palermo, in 1814, Constantine Samuel Rafinesque published a mean little pamphlet which he called "Precis des Decouvertes Somiologiques, ou Zoologiques et Botaniques."
By his newly invented word "Semiology" Rafinesque meant Systematic Zoology and Botany.
In another paper of the same date he gives the " Principaux Fondamentaux de Somiologie, ou les Lois de la Nomenclature et de la Classification de I'Empire Organique ou des Animaux et des Vegetaux."
These laws of nomenclature are mostly reasonable enough, except that they justify the substitution of new names on trivial grounds.
A name may be too long or too short, and all names indicating likeness to other genera, as Gohioides, Scomber omorus, Scomheresox, were discarded.
These rules he applies at once to numerous plant genera and in his "Analyse de la Nature," in 1815, to many others also.
The "Precis de Decouvertes" has been rarely seen by naturalists.
The only copy I have examined is in the library of the Department of Agriculture.
In it the following species are described, from Sicily, unless otherwise noted: Phycis inacronemus, p10.
This is apparently Phycis blenniodes Briinnich.
Trisopterus fasciatus (new genus), p. 16.
"Corps comprime: tete ecailleuse: trois nageoires dorsales et anales opposees, les intermediaires les plus grandes.
II appartient a la famille des Gadiens.
T. fasciatus: Jaune dore raye transversalement de brun: ligne laterale droite et brune: queue fourchee."
According to Risso this is the same as his Morua capelanus or Brachygadus minutus (L).
This identification is probably correct, in which case Trisopterus replaces Brachygadus Gill.
Bothus diagrammus, p16.
Left side rosy, unspotted.
Two lateral lines, the upper straight, the lower curved.
Dorsal beginning over opercles.
Bothus punctatus, p. 17.
Upper side reddish, dotted with brown; lateral line arched in front; dorsal lieginning over mouth.
Bothus diaphanus, p. 17.
Hyaline, a red spot on opercle; two at base of caudal; 12 along body near dorsal and anal; dorsal beginning over mouth; lateral line straight.
These three species are plainly larval flounders, the first possibly Flesus flesus (L) the others perhaps Bothus rhombus (L) .
Monochirus hispidus, p. 17.
New genus.
This is a valid genus and species for which Rafinesque's name must stand.
Blennius lanceolatus, p. 17.
Body lanceolate; tail sharp; silvery, dotted with brown; back greenish; ventral rays 3; a barbel under the mouth.
(Not identified, possibly Ophidion barbatiim L.) Phycis agrammus, p. 17.
Brown, with two rows of whitish spots; no lateral lines, no barbels; two appendages on nostrils; ventral rays 5; front dorsal rays 20.
(Not identified.)
Lutianus flavus, p. is.
Entierement jaune fonce, une tache noire sur I'opercule posterieur et une autre a la base de la queue qui est entiere; ligne laterale courbe posterieurement.
This is Crenilabrus ocellatus (Forskal), originally from Smyrna.
Holocentrus ruber, p. 18.
Rouge pale, une tache violette sur I'opercule posterieur, un rang de taches olivatres sur le dos; iris violette; queue entiere, ligne laterale courbe posterieurement.
Unidentifiable.
Possibly Paracentropristis hepatus (L.), the name ruber preoccupied in Holocentrus.
Perca nebulosa, p. 18.
Variee de brun plus ou moins clair ou rougeatre, machoire inferieure plus courte, aun barbillon tres-court endessous; nuque carenee, ligne laterale presque droite, queue entiere, premiere nag.
dorsale a 10 rayons.
This is Umbrina cirrhosa (L).
Gobius aterrimus, p. 18.
Entierement d'un noir fonce uniforme sur tout le corps et les membres; joues enflees, ligne .
laterale droite, queue arrondee, premiere nag.
dorsale a 5 rayons.
This is probably Gobius niger L. Esox reticulatus, p. 18.
Corps comprime, sans ligne laterale, reticule de noir bleuatre sur im foncl argente, bouche grande noire, a dents crochues inegales; nageoires blanchatres, les dorsale et anale a 16 rayons, queue fourchue.
This seems to be the common European pike, Esox lucius L. The name invalidates the later name of Esox reticulatus, given in 1818 by Le Sueur to the Grass Pike or Green Pickerel of Eastern States of America.
For this, the name Esox tredecemlineatus given by Professor Mitchill in 1852, to his "Federation Pike" from Oneida Lake, should apparently stand.
Mitchill was impressed with the patriotic agreement of this fish, having 13 dorsal rays, 13 anal rays and 13 branchiostegals, with the thirteen American States.
Esox phaleratus Say, 1818, from East Florida, was never described.
The few words quoted from Say by Le Sueur, apply better to the little banded pickerel, Esox americanus Gmelin.
"Body dusky with a vertical fulvous vitta and three or four fulvous fasciae."
Balistes fuscatus, p. 19.
Brownish, with 3 large black spots.
Dorsal spines 3, the first very rough.
Pectorals with 15 rays, the first very rough.
Between the Azores and the United States.
This seems to be Balistes forcipatus Gmelin.
Chironectes variegatus, p. 19.
Compressed; gray olive above with large spots and streaks of black and small white spots; two appendages above eyes.
Between the Azores and the United States.
This is apparently Histrio tumidus (Osbeck).
Chironectes variegatus of Cuv.
& Val.
is a different species.
The three following are from streams flowing into Chesapeake Bay: Centropomus albus, p. 19.
D. VIII, 16.
A.
12.
Tail half forked; upper jaw the longer.
This seems to be Morone americana Gmelin, but the number of dorsal rays should be IX-1, 12.
Centropomus luteus, p. 19.
Yellow with brown bands; lower fins red; jaws almost equal; tail almost entire; second dorsal unspotted.
This is Perca fiavescens (Mitchill) of the same date, 1814.
Sparus mocasinus, p19.
Bluish, rosy on the flanks; 2 spots on opercle, one black, one red; tail lunulate.
D. X.
14.
A.
Ill, 14.
This is Eupomotis gibbosus (L), but the number of fin-rays agrees with those of no sun-fish.
