A PECULIAR VENEZUELAN LAND SNAIL.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Xenodisciila venezuelensis n. gen. and sp.
Fig.
1.
The shell is minute, discoidal, being concave above and below, whitish-transparent, glossy, with sculpture of spaced radial grooves after the first half whorl.
These grooves become closer near the aperture, and in the largest and freshest specimens they are occupied // )9^ \:.
Fig.
1.
— Xenodiscula venezuelensis.
Three views of the shell, and aperture more enlarged.
there by projecting riblets (which may be partly cuticular and deciduous).
There are not quite three whorls, rapidly increasing, convex, most strongly so above.
The aperture is oblique, wide, of irregular shape.
On the parietal wall there is a high, thin median, emerging lamella, which penetrates only a short distance, and near the columella there is an oblique, much smaller lamella.
The outer and lower margins of the lip are thickened within and toothed.
On the columella there is a small blunt tooth followed by a more tapering one, with a low third prominence in fully adult shells.
Within the outer lip, above the periphery, there is a group of three small teeth, the upper one largest,the other two sometimes lacking, or developed later.
Alt.
0.55, diam.
1.6 mm.
Cariaquita, Venezuela, S. Brown, Bond Venezuela Expedition, 1911.
Type and paratypes, No.
105,209, A. N. S. P. All of the specimens are empty shells, obtained by sifting leaf debris.
The affinities of the species remain uncertain, as it is very unlike any described form, but it doubtless belongs to a ,new genus, which may provisionally be placed near Proserpinula or Volvidens, both Antillean genera.
In the type specimen there is a very minute lamella above the parietal, lacking in the other examples.
PLATE VIII.
FOWLER: A NEW SILUROID FISH.
PLATE IX.
BERRY: MOLLUSC A OF GLACIER NATIONAL PARK.
PLATE X. m V " )»^"s 4M^ # £i?^-.. M^^ -% V *,.jar¥-^*;jM*i .^V -;, ..3»^^.\ 5>-^ lb ^ 3b ^b «s«'?»rl .
* 3b BERRY: MOLLUSC A OF GLACIER NATIONAL PARK.
November 18, 1919 The President, John Cadwalader, A. M., LL.
D., in the Chair.
One-hundred and forty-two persons present.
Dr. Wither Stone made a communication on ''A Naturahst's Camp in the Chiracahua Mountains of Southern Arizona," illustrated by lantern slides.
(No abstract.)
The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following papers for the Proceedings: "A New Trout from the Mountain Streams of Formosa," by David Starr Jordan and IM.
Oshima.
"Notes on Tropical American Fishes," bj^ Henry W. Fowler.
"Description of a New Siluroid Fish from Colombia," by Henry W. Fowler. "
Dipterological Notes and Descriptions," by Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. "Mollusca of Glacier National Park, Montana," by S. Stillman Berry.
"New Genera of Fossil Fishes from Brazil," by David Starr Jordan.
"A Peculiar Venezuelan Land Snail," by Henry A. Pilsbry.
Nominations for Officers, Councillors, and members of the Committee on Accounts were made.
The deaths of Thomas Skelton Harrison, J. Ewing Mears, William C. Stevenson, Jr., George B. Cresson, and Miss Harriet Blanchard, members, and of Gustav Retzius and Ernst Haeckel, correspondents, were announced.
Miss Anne Hinchman, Walter Palmer, W. H. Van Sickel, Arthur Cope Emlen, and Hampton L. Carson, were elected members.
The following paper was ordered to be printed; 15
