TWO NEW CYPRINOID FISHES FROM FORMOSA.
BY MASAMITSU OSHIMA.
By courtesy of Mr. Moichiro JMaki, of Taihoka Normal School, the author was able to examine the collections of Formosan freshwater fishes made by his students during the summer of the year 1919.
Among them two species of Leuciscus were found which are apparently new to science.
Unfortunately, there are no records with regard to their type localities.
It is certain, however, that they were obtained in the mountain streams of central Formosa, because other species preserved in the same bottle, that is, Salmo formosanus and Liobagrus formosamis, are not found from in other places than the tributaries of the Taiko and Taito Rivers.
Leuciscus schisturus new species.
Fig.
1.
Head 4,20 in length; depth 4.
65; D. iii,7; A. in, 8; P. 17, V. 9; scales 74 in lateral line ; 14 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line, 16 between the latter and middle of belly; 9 scales between Fig.
1.
— Leuciscus schisturus new species.
lateral line and the root of ventral; width of head 2 in its length; snout 3 in head; eye 5; interorbital space 3; pectoral 1.50; ventral 1.81; pharyngeal teeth 4, 2-2, 5; gill-rakers 4+8.
Body elongate, compressed posteriorly; head elongate, triangular, upper profile nearly straight; snout rather long, pointed, edge of its skin slightly covering the upper lip; interorbital space and top of head more or less convex, eye small, anterior and superior, 1.
46 in snout; mouth salDinferior, not very oblique, maxillary reaching posterior border of nostril; lips thin, the lower discontinuous, distinct at the angle of mouth only; anterior margin of lower jaw trenchant; pharyngeal teeth hooked, with no grinding surface; nostrils close together, on the supra-lateral part of snout; gill -openings rather large; gill-rakers rather short and pointed.
Origin of dorsal midway between tip of snout and base of caudal, the first branched ray the longest, reaching beyond the others to origin of anal when depressed, its outer margin nearly straight; pectoral five-eighths the distance to ventrals; origin of ventral in advance of that of dorsal, inserted nearer origin of anal than that of pectoral; anal inserted a little nearer to tip of pectoral than base of caudal, the first branched ray the highest, scarcely reaching beyond the others when depressed, the base of the fin 1.50 in its height, outer border shghtly concave; caudal peduncle long, its depth 2.50 in head; caudal fin deeply emarginate, lobes sharply pointed.
Scales cycloid, imbricated, of rather even size; no pectoral flap; ventral with a slender scaly flap; lateral line continuous, more or less decurved anteriorly, running along the middle of tail.
Color in alcohol uniformly grayish brown above, paler below; all the fins whitish.
Total length 145 mm.
Habitat: Central Formosa (type-locality unknown).
{Schistmus, split-tail; with reference to the vvell-developed rudimentary caudal rays.)
Leuciscus medius new species.
Head 3.83 in length; depth 4.55; D. iii,7; A. iii,7; P. 15; V. 8; scales 76 in lateral line; 19 scales between the origin of dorsal and lateral line, 17 between the latter and middle of belly; 11 scales between lateral line and the root of ventral; width of head 2 in its length; snout 3 in head; eye 4.33; interorbital space 3; pectoral 1.71; ventral 1.81; pharyngeal teeth 4,2-2,5; gill-rakers 2 + 7.
Body elongate, compressed; head elongate, pointed, sides flattened, upper profile nearly straight; snout rather pointed, slightly produced; eye moderate, anterior 1.50 in snout; mouth terminal, slightly obhque, maxillary reaching posterior border of nostril; lips thin, not cUIated; lower lips discontinuous; anterior margin of lower jaw trenchant; pharyngeal teeth hooked, with no grinding surfaces, nostrils close together, in front of eye above; inter1920.
191 orbital s])ace and top of head very slightly convex; gill-openings moderate; gill-rakers rather short and pointed.
Origin of dorsal nearer base of caudal than tip of snout, rather high, the first branched ray the longest, reaching far beyond the origin of anal when depressed, its outer margin nearly straight, anal inserted nearer tip of pectoral than base of caudal, the first branched ray the highest, not reaching beyond the others when depressed, the base of the fin 1.42 in its height, its outer margin straight; pectoral two-thirds the distance to ventrals; ventrals inserted nearer origin of anal than that of pectoral, in advance of origin of dorsal; caudal peduncle Fig.
2.
— Leuciscus medius new species.
compressed, its depth 2 in head; caudal fin deeply forked, the lobes obtusely pointed.
Scales cycloid, moderately small, of rather even size; no pectoral flap; ventral with a small fleshy flap; lateral line continuous, slightly decurved, running along the middle of the tail.
Color in alcohol grayish brown above, paler below; all the fins whitish.
Total length, 110 mm.
Habitat: Central Formosa (type-locality unknown).
The present species distinctly differs from the former in having 19 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line.
{Medius, central, the species having been obtained in central Formosa.)
